 

 

 

 

oO
co
|
©
CX
ee
re
©
~J
©

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNUS

VOLUME 45 NUMBER 5 OCTOBER 1970

CONTENTS

1. The National Scene

2. Convocation Remarks
4. The W&L Girls

7. Campus News

2. Corrigan Resigns

14. The Mayhem of Rugby
is. Ed Lurville’s Bet

21. Class Notes

COVER

Washington and Lee began its 222nd year in quiet, rou-
tine fashion, although curriculum changes, freshman
orientation, and the presence of seven girls on campus
made this past September quite different from previous
years. This issue of the Alumnus includes reports on these
events, plus the text of President Huntley’s remarks at the
University’s Opening Convocation, beginning on page 2.

EDITOR: William C. Washburn, 40
MANAGING EDITOR: Romulus T. Weatherman

ASSOCIATE EDITOR AND PHOTOGRAPHER:
A. Michael Philipps, ‘64

EDITORIAL ASSISTANT: Mrs. Joyce Carter

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC::
Charles F. Clarke, Jr., 38, President

Emil L. Rassman, ’41, Vice-President

William C. Washburn, ’40, Secretary

Richard H. Turrell, 49, Treasurer

BOARD OF DIRECTORS: Upton Beall, 51; Joe F.
Bear, 33; Charles F. Clarke, Jr., ‘38; I. Hal Clarke, ‘38;
A. Christian Compton, ’50; William H. Hillier, 38;
S. L. Kopald, |r, 43; Dr. J]. Peter Muhlenberg, 50; Ed-
ward H. Ould, ’29; Emil L. Rassman, ’41; Beauregard A.
Redmond, ’55; Richard H. Turrell, ’49.

Published in February, April, June, August, October, and
December by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms
3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage paid at
Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing privileges
at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP as required by Act of Con-
gress of Aug. 24, 1912, as amended by the Acts of March 3,
1933, July 2, 1946 and June 11, 1960: The Washington and Lee
Alumnus is owned by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., and is entered as second class matter at the Post
Office in Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001. William C. Washburn
is editor and business manager. His address is Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450. There are no
bond, mortgage, or other security holders. The average num-
ber : aoe of each issue during the 12 preceding months
was 12,500.

 

Change is a fact of life. Still there are many Washing-
ton and Lee adherents, who in their physical isolation
from the campus, fear that the University is changing too
much and too fast for its own good. This is understand-
able. For change, despite its inevitability, is seldom easy
to take.

But the changes that have occurred, and are occurring,
at Washington and Lee, are for the most part changes in
form rather than in substance. One has only to read in
this magazine President Huntley’s address at this year’s
Opening Convocation to be reassured that this commun-
ity of learning has no intention, notwithstanding the
stress higher education is experiencing, of departing from
the basic philosophy that has made Washington and Lee
a leading educational institution. The President's views
serve as a guide, governing the actions and attitudes of
the Washington and Lee community as a whole—admini-
stration, faculty, students, friends.

The University this year has a broadened, more flex-
ible curriculum. But this does not mean that academic
emphasis has in any way diminished. It means that both
faculty members and students have greater freedom in
adopting materials and methods best suited to them as in-
dividuals and best calculated to advance the learning
process. Fewer students are joining fraternities. But this
does not mean that there is no longer a sense of com-
munity among students. They are coming together in
other ways under programs sponsored through the Uni-
versity Center. Many students dress sloppily and wear
their hair long. But this does mean that they are in a state
of rebellion against tradition in all its aspects. One can
find on the Washington and Lee campus among the
hairiest students an unshakeable allegiance to the estab-
lished order of things. Indeed, one discerns among the
students here—although they may have concerns that ex-
tend beyond the campus—a determination to get the most
out of the educational opportunities offered. While it is
difficult to explain their attitudes, if indeed they can be
explained, it is their life style—their appearance—that
makes them seem, at least in part, to be different from the
students of a generation ago.

‘There is at Washington and Lee today a student
generation that is still receptive to the challenge Pro-
fessor James G. Leyburn issued in his spirit talk to this
year’s freshmen:

“My one purpose is to invite you to experience the
exhilaration of using your minds to the fullest, to become
scholars of the first rank, to see and contribute to the es-
sential greatness of W&L.”

Look at Washington and Lee today and take assurance
from Shelley: “Life may change, but it may fly not... ,”

 

th

 

 

 

 

 

ADMINISTRATION 21

The National Scene

Ea EE a

Reporting on a critical money shortage
_.. Students planning more opposition to the war

™ Hitting Bottom? The long-expected “financial
crisis” in higher education has struck with such
force this year that college administrators can
scarcely find words strong enough to describe it.
“The Day of Judgment is upon us,” says one. “It
is here—now.” Another says the money shortage
is so grave that it outranks student dissent as the
main problem of the 1970's.

The situation is acute because several factors
have come together at the same time. Inflation,
soaring educational costs, declining stock prices,
lagging federal aid, public hostility to increased
state support—all nave combined to put a tremen-
dous drain on institutional budgets, especially
those of private colleges. At least a score of
colleges have closed in the past year or so, and
many others report substantial operating deficits.

With tuition rising almost everywhere, small
private colleges seem to be in particular danger
of pricing themselves out of business. Admissions
people report an accelerating shift of enrollments
from such institutions to state universities and to
low-cost community colleges close to students’
homes. A growing number of private institutions
have had to seek state support to supplement their
income from private sources. And at the estab-
lished public institutions, officials say that the
rise of state aid in recent years has not kept pace
with their expanding needs.

Academic economists have been warning for a
long time that higher education’s fiscal health
will depend increasingly on the amount of money
it receives from the federal government. But the
growth of federal support, which averaged about
24 per cent a year in the mid-sixties, has slowed
considerably, a government agency reports. Con-
gressional appropriations for higher education in
fiscal 1971 are up about $180-million, despite a
presidential veto, but even that sum falls short
of previous gains.

“We have to have that federal money,” says
a college official in the Midwest. “We’ve had a
lot of promises, but not a lot of action.”

™ Collision Course? Anticipating another year of
trouble on the campuses, groups of college presi-
dents and other administrators held several meet-
ings this past summer to share ideas on how to
minimize disorders and respond to students’ griev-
ances. Even as the presidents met, however,
student leaders made clear that the war in South-
east Asia—more than any particular campus issue
—remained at the heart of their discontent. At

the annual congress of the U.S. National Student
Association, delegates from about 280 institutions
resolved to oppose the war with the “most con-
certed and dedicated effort” in NSA history.

The students said they would commit them-
selves to “massive non-violent action,” including
widespread civil disobedience, if the war did not
end by next May.

The view that the war and other “non-campus”
matters are the chief reasons for campus turmoil
was stressed by two special advisers to President
Nixon and by many from the colleges who testi-
fied before a presidential commission on campus
unrest. But Mr. Nixon said it was “very short-
sighted” to blame the government for “the prob-
lems of the universities.”” No matter what the gov-
ernment does, he suggested, educational issues
will persist as a cause of student dissatisfaction.

Meanwhile, there is some new evidence that—
despite attempts by many colleges to give students
more of a say in academic government—most
institutions have yet to put students in a formal
position to influence major policy decisions. A
study involving 875 institutions has shown that in
most cases students are still not allowed to partic-
ipate on faculty executive committees or boards
of trustees.

@ In Brief: One consequence of a tight academic
job market this year may be added strength for
the faculty union movement. As union leaders see
it, when college teachers cannot improve their
situation by changing institutions, they become
more militant where they are. Officials of the
American Federation of Teachers expect 50 col-
lege locals to demand contracts in 1970-71...

The assumption that colleges vary widely
according to their region or type of control has
been challenged in a study for the Carnegie Com-
mission on Higher Education. Academic spe-
cialization and an emphasis on more advanced
degrees are making institutions “more like each
other than was true in the past,” said the study’s
author. .

The refusal of a regional accrediting agency
to consider a proprietary, profit-making college
for membership has been sustained by the U.S.
Court of Appeals. It reversed a lower court’s
ruling that the refusal violated antitrust laws...

The presidents of predominantly black colleges
say the Administration has promised them more
federal funds this year for construction, student
aid, and administrative and academic programs.

PREPARED FOR OUR READERS BY THE EDITORS OF THE CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION

To Trust Much Is To Risk Much

THE PRESIDENT SETS THE TONE FOR A NEW YEAR

President Huntley addressed the
Opening Convocation of the Univer-
sity on September 16 in Evans Dining
Hall. The text of his remarks follows:

Thank you for that welcome—and,
believe it or not, I’m glad to see you
back.

I apologize, if apology be necessary,

 

President Huntley enjoys light moment
before addressing Opening Convocation.

for the cramped quarters in which we
have to hold this assembly, and pass
on to you the assurances I have had
that by next September we may meet
in more comfortable quarters.

* * *

All over the nation, the colleges
and universities of America are be-

ginning a new year. As in past years,
hundreds of thousands of young peo-
ple are crowding the halls of academe,
registering for courses, consulting with
faculty, greeting old acquaintances,
and eyeing new faces. Faculty have
gathered again on the campus, return-
ing from their activities and excur-
sions of the summer, sharing new ex-
periences and insights with their col-
leagues, talking with their students, or
listening to them, and of course be-
ginning their classes. And, inevitably,
even administrator-types are seen
around the place, busily doing what-
ever it is such types do.

Each year’s new start has always
differed in ways from its predecessors—
new people to be met, new courses to
be taught, new learning to be pon-
dered and discussed, and, likely, a
smattering of new annoyances to be
tolerated and grumbled about. And
through it all, if one can find a park-
ing space, the prevailing atmosphere
has usually been one of calm exuber-
ance and good humor and joy at be-
ginning again on the mind-rubbing,
soul-stirring experience of education.

And so should it be now in this
new September. For surely the ingredi-
ents are present, and in more liberal
measure than perhaps ever before.
The faculty and students, judging by
their credentials, are more knowledge-
able and more diverse and more aware
than ever before. There are on many
campuses—and certainly on this one
—new opportunities in the curri-
culum, evolving after months and
years of productive effort, and wide
choices for self-development beyond
the curriculum. And, of course, there
are the annoyances, to add spice to the
mix—but I remember I’ve already
mentioned parking.

However, unless my nose for such
things is awry, and on this matter I do
not think it is, the prevailing atmos-
phere on most college campuses this
fall will not be predominantly one of
joyful anticipation. It may, indeed, be
one of gloom, however artfully dis-
guised by the trappings of professional
optimism; or, at the very least, one of
apprehension and tension, certainly

acme
22 ADMINISTRATION

~

oe

. PR, aceeeaiieiiineia

 

 

 

 

among many faculties and administra-
tors and trustees and, I suspect, also
among many students. Instead of an-
noyance, there may be distrust and
animosity; instead of fellowship, there
may be alienation and humorless iso-
lation; instead of scholarship, there
may be rude epithet and hollow self-
esteem.

If this be the case, why should it
be so? One could give a flippant and
facile kind of answer, for example,
that after three years of studying we
now know for sure that September fol-
lows May. Or one could try his hand,
as everyone else is, at the deeper, SOC10-
logical answer, which surely contains
more than a grain of truth: that youth
is alienated from society because of a
breakdown in family life, and in reli-
gion, and because of the rootlessness of
our civilization, and because the ideals
and impatience of youth have been
stimulated and piqued as never before
by the injustices they see in the world.
These kinds of analyses are true and
insistently important. But they do not
alone provide the explanation for the
special pessimism which I think is
thickening the air of the educational
institutions in America.

Is it, then, the financial crisis which
the colleges face?—for indeed they
do face a financial crisis, and surely
this is at least part of the explanation.
Shrinking revenues and rising costs are
not limited to the business sector of
our economy. And add to that the fact
that educational institutions, which
for a long time have enjoyed a kind of
tacit immunity from the account-
ability which we impose on other in-
stitutions in society, are now finding
an increasingly insistent demand from
legislators, donors and others to ac-
count for the worthiness of the pro-
duct they produce. The financial crisis
cannot, and should not, be sloughed
over. Surely it turns the hair of ad-
ministrator-types white, if they have
any hair left to turn white, and surely
it is a matter which occupies the full-
est attention of college presidents.

But I doubt again if it’s the basic
explanation.

Rather, I think, it is the almost-

 

sudden realization by many who have
dedicated their lives to education and
spent much of their lives on college
campuses of the sheer fragility of the
enterprise in which they are engaged,
and the accompanying realization of
the superlative importance that that
fragile vessel not be shattered.

Robert Nisbet, a professor of socio-
logy at the University of California,
in a recent article entitled “The Res-
toration of Academic Authority,”
said this:

No other major institution in
modern history has existed with the
minimum of formal regulation and
of contractual detail that one found
in the [American] university down
on into the late 1950s... . Potent
though this structure of authority
was, it was yet so finely drawn and
so much a part of the very atmos-
phere as to be nearly invisible.
Thus the essential atmosphere of
the academic community; thus the
special nature of academic freedom.

Such structures of authority,
however, have one fatal weakness.
Once seriously challenged by a mili-
tant minority, or subjected to chip-
ping away by repeated acts of de-
fiance by individuals, they cannot
stand very long. They are vulner-
able to even the feeblest of at-
tacks. .

Once such structures are flout-
ed, they are destroyed. Once de-
stroyed, they cannot be put together
again.

It seems extremely unlikely,
therefore, that present
stances are likely to produce any-
thing but new forms of power on
the campus. Power, unlike the kind
of authority I described just above,

circum-

is at once more personal, more di-
rect, more detailed and more for-
mal. Although most persons tend to
think of freedom as the conse-
quence of eroding authority in a
culture, this is not the case; for
freedom cannot exist save in Cir-
cumstances of accepted authority.
Power, not freedom, is the invari-
able response in history to condi-
tions of shattered authority.
Of course, no enterprise will will-
ingly stand by while its very reason for
existence is brought to ruin. For

Te er NC ur ncn Flam
ADMINISTRATION 33

the college—for this college—conduct
which is purposefully abusive and con-
temptuous and disruptive is by its very
nature violent and, quite literally, in-
tolerable. “Intolerable,” because it is
precisely antithetical to the process of
education which must survive, if at all,
on a diet of reason and respect.

And so one sees, on campuses
everywhere, as one would expect to
see, a sudden proliferation of policy
statements and rules, which state that
such conduct will not be tolerated.

But the dilemma is grave. For the
very necessity to provide a precisely
defined and formal framework of rules
will, in itself, in time dehumanize and
eventually brutalize the institution.

In my commencement remarks two
years ago, I noted this dilemma as fol-
lows:

.. . It seems perfectly clear to
me that there is no real solution to
the dilemma with which a univer-
sity is confronted if it must organize
itself to provide a structure for the
reconciliation of power centers in
its midst, whether they be power
centers within groups of the fac-
ulty, between faculty and adminis-
tration, or between faculty, admini-
stration and students.

A university like Washington
and Lee is not a microcosm of a
political structure, and any serious
effort to make it one would—in my
view—destroy its only valid reason
for existence. For our environment
must be one which stimulates us, as
someone has said, to polish our
minds and ideals against those of
others, to regard discussion, reason
and dialogue as a process by which
we grow to intellectual and spirit-
ual maturity, rather than as a stra-
tagem by which we use others as a
means to achieve our own wants.
Here, today, on this campus, I wish

to leave this simple, personal profes-
sion of trust. This community need
not politicize and dehumanize itself
in order to survive. To trust much is
to risk much. But the ideal is essential
and precious.

Yet awhile, then, I ask you to bear
with me—and with each other.

The answer and the challenge are
ours.

As FEATURE

Seven women are attending
Washington and Lee this year under
the Cooperative Exchange Program
with seven colleges that began this
fall. The other participating colleges
are Davidson, Hampden-Sydney,
Hollins, Mary Baldwin, Randolph-
Macon, Randolph-Macon Woman’s,
and Sweet Briar. Two Washington
and Lee juniors, Ronald W.

Abrams of Roslyn, N.Y.,and John
F. Larmour of Plandome, N.Y., are
spending the year at Hollins under
the program.

As one of the girls attending
WeL remarked, “You know this
isn’t really coed; it 1s like going to
school with boys.” But the presence
of girls in classes is providing the
University with a limited ex perience
in coeducation.

Soon after classes began, the
seven Wev'L “coeds” were inter-
viewed and were asked essentially the
same questions: why they decided
to come to W&L? how they like it
so far? and what they plan to do?

Excerpts from their replies follow:

The

Now Ratio--

Fifteen Hundred

Twenty-Seven

To Seven

Miss Red

MISS ANN RED
Chappaqua, N.Y.
Randolph-Macon Sophomore
Major in Art

I heard about Mr. Ju [artist-in-
residence], and I wanted to study
under him, especially after I met
him. I have a lot of good friends
over here, not really dates, just
friends, and I visited classes with them.
I was influenced by the feeling of
the school as a whole. I like being
able to go to school and talk to
teachers as friends. I like being able
to go home and not living in a dorm.
I enjoyed being in a woman’s
college last year. I just found that
you miss about 50 per cent of all
opinions in classes. Classes are more
exciting than having all girls. I
imagine that 50-50 would be the
best way. I am not any more un-
comfortable than I would be in
any new situation—I mean entering
as a freshman in an all-girl’s school
or anything else. I am excited about
being here and having so many
people to talk to. It is like having
40,000 brothers or something. A lot
of freshmen here have gotten to
know me, and they tease constantly.
It is kind of nice, I guess. It makes

 

them feel more at home and makes me
feel more at home, too. I have no

fixed career plans, except I would

like always to stay around a school.

I like books—perhaps teach. I

think I could do it.

MISS RITA ENNIS
Louisville, Ky.
Hollins Sophomore
Major in Politics

I have always had a great interest
in journalism, and I had been
thinking seriously for some time of
going to graduate school with some
sort of focus in journalism. But
Hollins didn’t provide this at all for
me, and I really liked Hollins. When
the exchange program came up, Mr.
Davis [professor of journalism at
W&L] thought it would be a very
good idea for me to attend
Washington and Lee for a year so
that I wouldn’t have to transfer
away from Hollins and that is what
prompted my decision. In class I
don’t feel nearly as uncomfortable
as I do out of class. I have gotten
very involved on the Ring-twm Phi
staff. I am really interested in that,
and that has taken away any
gloominess that I had temporarily.

 

Miss Ennis

 

ee

 

 

 

 

;
\

 

 

 

Miss Doolittle

But the attitude of many professors
and many of the men I have en-
countered is very opposite to the
attitude that I have. ‘They seem to
think that I am here as a dumb

broad out for a good time, and that

is not it at all. If somehow I could
change their attitude, I would like to,
but as long as the exchange program
operates on such a limited basis, I
can see very well why the boys

have that attitude. And the prospects
look good for the rest of the year

as long as I stay involved in something
I am interested in. I find Washington
and Lee a very good place for
education. It is very much the same

as Hollins. It is a very easy
atmosphere to adjust to. | am
interested in urban studies, and

one way or another I would like

to go to graduate school and have
something to do with urban studies.

MISS CATHY DOOLITTLE
Greensboro, N.C.
Randolph-Macon Junior
Major in Psychology

I was interested in getting a
different approach to psychology and
getting into a different department.
I thought about transferring to

 

Carolina, but I decided that was a
little big. So I decided to try something
new. This exchange program is new,
and I thought it would be interesting
to be here with so many boys. In

a sense, I was just tired of seeing all-
girl classes and always getting girls’
opinions and ideas. It is nice to be
able to get different professors and
their ideas. The department is so
small at Randolph-Macon that I

have had all the professors two or
three times. There are several
psychology courses here that I am
particularly interested in that are
not offered at Randolph-Macon, and
some of W&L’s sociology courses

and art courses interested me. In

all my classes, I am the only

girl, and I feel a little uncomfortable,
more worried about what they think
about me being there than anything
else. I am kind of shy, and it is

hard. I hope as I meet more people,
things will calm down and I will
relax more. I am pretty tense
walking across the campus even. I
plan to go to graduate school in
psychology, but I’m not sure about
my field—child psychology or clinical
psychology or something like that.

MISS ANNE RAGLAND
Winsted, Conn.
Hollins Junior
Major in Art History

I have been going to a girl’s
school for a long time, and I thought
it would be interesting to go to
school with boys. Also I can get
some courses here I couldn't get at
Hollins. It wasn’t the art because
I could get that at Hollins, but
there were some other things—
like some history courses here that I
can’t get there, comparative literature
courses and other things. Everybody
is very friendly and helpful. ‘This is
good because if they were hostile and
said to the girls, ‘““we don’t want
them around here,” it would
probably be horrible. I am encouraged
about the remainder of the year,
especially academically. I don’t
care that much about the boys. It is
nice to meet them, and it is nice to

 

FEATURE sd

talk to them because they think
differently than girls. But I am really
encouraged about my courses. I think
it is going to be really good. My
father thought that this would
stimulate me academically. ‘That’s
what he said. He thinks this is a

great idea. I don’t know what I will
do when I finish college. No, I am
one of these people who will probably
wait until May of my senior year
before I decide to do anything.

MISS DALE MATTHEWS
Durham, N.C.
Hollins Senior
Major in Philosophy

There are several reasons why I
came. I decided it would be interest-
ing just to be in classes with men
and see if they thought any differently,
and if they did, how? But it sounds
like a bunch of baloney when you
try to pin down all the reasons
because when I make a decision
I very rarely know what goes into
it. Part of it is just sort of a dare.
It’s an opportunity to find out
something new about yourself. I don’t
know whether staying at Hollins
would have been more of a challenge
or coming here. It is just a chance.
I am taking three philosophy

Miss Ragland

63 FEATURE

Miss Matthews

courses and a sculpture course.
‘They are good classes, and I am
working hard. So far, in class people
have reacted to me the same as if

I were at Hollins. I really thought

I would be more nervous than I am.

But it is different. In some ways, it
is like being a freshman. You don’t
realize how much you have gotten

to know a college until you leave it
and go to another college. I think

I want to go to graduate school. I
don’t know what in—English or
philosophy. I might not want to

do that for several years. I am not
sure.

MISS SUSAN ELLETT
Richmond, Va.
Mary Baldwin Junior
Major in Economics

I have never been to a coed school
before. I just decided that I wanted
something different, and yet I still
wanted to graduate from Mary
Baldwin. I came here during Coed
Week last year. I took economics and
political science, and I found the
courses to be more stimulating, or
something, than they were at Mary
Baldwin. I don’t know whether it
was having boys in the class, or

 

what, but I was really interested in

it. I had looked in catalogues of
Hampden-Sydney and Davidson,
but I found the Economics Depart-
ment here was better than

those. If I can ever get over my
fears—I don’t know what you call
them—the boys kind of stare at you
when you walk around the campus.
It’s not so bad in class, but I guess
after they get used to us, and we get
used to them, they will be what I
expected. Sitting in class, I guess, isn’t
any different except that I am the
only girl in there. I hope maybe

to go into banking or something like
that, but right now I am really not

too sure. I don’t plan to go to
graduate school.

MISS LESLIE FOX
Boston, Mass.
Hollins Junior
Major in Biology-Psychology

I came to W&L because academic-
ally it is giving me an opportunity
to do things I wouldn’t be able to
do at Hollins. I have a senior
independent study in which I am
experimenting with teaching
emotionally disturbed children in
an elementary school, working with

 

atte

Miss Fox

 

Miss Ellett

a speech therapist and a reading
disabilities teacher as well as a case
worker; and I have files available to
me here that would not be possible
if I were working in Roanoke. I

feel that people are paying a lot of
attention to me—or they are very
indifferent. It’s not so much that
their questions are hostile

sometimes, but that they are trying

to get me to make a certain response
that they would expect a woman

to make in an academic discussion.
I feel that there are some very
intelligent people here, and I’m glad
to get to know them. But I don't
think W&L should go coed any

more than Hollins should. I don’t
want men in my science building
using the equipment that is available
to me as an undergraduate, and

I don’t want them in my student
government. No, I have no firm career
plans. One of the reasons I am
experimenting in the course I’m
taking in independent study is that
I get a chance to work in my three
major fields of interest—reading
disability, speech therapy, and
teaching mentally retarded—and
hopefully I can decide at the

end of this term what I want my
career to be.

 

eoeernanemncemeeseel

serene

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

New Orientation Program Proves Successful

For the first time in a generation,
Washington and Lee’s freshmen gathered
on campus this fall for orientation, instead
of at Natural Bridge; for the first time, it
wasn’t called “camp,” because it wasn’t
“camp.”

Under the new curriculum inaugurat-
ed in September, freshmen (and everybody
else) had more decisions to make, import-
ant ones, in a shorter time than Washing-
ton and Lee students probably have ever
had. Before, freshmen had hardly any op-
tions at all in course-selection. ‘The cata-
logue specified just about everything.
Now, every student has been given broad
discretion in choosing courses to meet re-
duced distribution requirements.

With hundreds, literally, of courses to
choose among (contrasted to only a frac-
tion of that in years past) and with a
totally new type of academic calendar,
and with the basic adjustments every
freshman has to make to college life, it was
obvious that orientation needed a more
serious flavor. Faculty advisers, for in-
stance, just aren't as available at Natural
Bridge as they are on campus.

Through Orientation Week, freshmen
had a preview of just about every import:
ant part of Washington and Lee life. The
academic was stressed, of course. One
night freshmen had dinner in Evans Hall
with their advisers, and most went to the
advisers’ homes afterwards. President
Huntley, Deans Pusey, John, and Schildt,
and other administration and student
leaders spoke to and with them through-
out the week. No fewer than 20 “dialogue
sessions,’ ranging over topics such as
“Men and Women,” “Crisis in Black and
White,” drugs and drug use, and student
extracurricular organizations, also took
place. And, of course, placement tests in
mathematics, French, Spanish, chemistry,
politics, and physical education. (The
mathematics placement test produced a
big surprise: though the math/classical
language requirement was done away with
under the new curriculum, ‘and math was
instead placed in a much broader math/
science category for distribution, more
than three-quarters of the new freshmen
took the math test. The apparent explana-
tion is that while math itself is no longer
a formal requirement, students neverthe-
less realize that for every branch of the
“hard” sciences and almost all the “social”

sciences, math is highly desirable, and
may even be required for graduate study.)

Not that it was all business and no
play. There were at least as many im-
promptu football games on Washington
and Lee’s lawns as there were at Natural
Bridge; the volleyball net, sort of an un-
official symbol of Freshman Camp in years
past, was put up and well used on the
triangle of grass in front of Doremus Gym;
there were combo parties and a mini-film
festival (with Charlie Chaplin and W. C.
Fields movie’) in the University Center.

Fraternity rush, which under another
innovation this year lasted six weeks
rather than one, was a far less time-con-
suming matter for freshmen their first few

CAMPUS: 7

days on campus. Open houses and rush
dates began taking place even before
classes began, as they always have, but for
the first time there were only a couple of
rush events a week. The same amount of
rush activity was spread over half a term
under the Interfraternity Council’s “de-
ferred rush” system, allowing freshmen to
develop a more accurate perspective on
college in general and the fraternity’s
role in it, and permitting fraternities, too,
to project a more accurate image of the
particular contributions they can make to
the W&L student’s academic and social
life.

The new orientation program was
largely designed by William McC. Schildt,
coordinator of the freshman year at Wash-
ington and Lee. “It’s beautiful,” one
freshman told a Roanoke Times reporter

 

Eye to eye and no talking, please, “Men and Women” dialogue session began with
appraisal of opposite sex.

33 CAMPUS

who was writing a feature article on W&L’s
orientation. ““The sessions are candid.
They’re straight.’’ Or, as student body
president Francis M. Lawrence was quot-
ed in the same article: “The orientation
program this year was conceived to bring
in the meaning of university life and key
issues which concern students today, to
provide interrelationships between fresh-
men and all the elements of Washington
and Lee.”

Judging by everybody’s reaction—es-
pecially the mature way freshmen ap-
proached it, and the way they appreciat-
ed it—that seems to be exactly what the
University’s new freshman orientation
program accomplished.

—RoBERT S. KEEFE
Director of Public Information

Professors Honored

Dr. James Graham Leyburn and Prof.
O. W. Riegel have been selected to appear
in the 1970 edition of Outstanding Edu-
cators in America, an annual volume
honoring teachers of exceptional achieve-
ment, dedication, and service throughout
the nation.

Both Dr. Leyburn, professor of socio-
logy and anthropology, and Mr. Riegel,
professor of journalism and communica-
tions, were heads of their academic de-
partments until retirement from admini-
strative duties in recent years. Both con-
tinue to teach full time.

Dr. Leyburn came to Washington and
Lee in 1947 as dean of the University, a
post he held until 1955. Before coming to
Washington and Lee, he had been pro-
fessor of sociology at Yale University.

He earned his bachelor of arts degree
in 1920 from Trinity College (now Duke
University), a master’s degree in econo-
mics from Trinity in 1921, a second mas-
ter’s degree in economics from Princeton
University in 1922, and his Ph.D. in socio-
logy from Yale in 1927.

He taught at Hollins College and
Princeton as well as Yale prior to joining
the faculty at Washington and Lee.

He is the author of a number of books,
including The Haitian People, recently
reissued by the Yale University Press,
which won the distinguished Ainsfield-
Wolf Award when it was originally pub-
lished. He has also written many articles
for magazines and professional journals.

Dr. Leyburn, an accomplished concert
pianist, is so highly regarded as a teacher
by his students that they have traditionally

given him a standing ovation during the
last class he teaches each semester.

Prof. Riegel was head of the Univer-
sity’s Lee Memorial Journalism Founda-
tion for 34 years, until 1968. He joined
the faculty in 1930 after teaching for two
years at Dartmouth College.

He has written four books, including
Mobilizing for Chaos and Crown of Glory,
as well as chapters in other books, and
more than 40 scholarly articles. He has
held offices in numerous civic and profes-
sional organizations, and is a member of
17 clubs and learned societies.

A graduate of the Universtiy of Wis-
consin and Columbia University, Prof.
Riegel worked for a number of news-
papers, including the Paris edition of the
Chicago Tribune and the New York Daily
News, before beginning his college teach-
ing career.

Last spring, he organized and coordi-
nated a unique symposium at Washing-
ton and Lee on the contemporary motion
picture, which brought a number of film-
makers and critics to the campus for a
week-long series of seminars and screen-
ings.

Faculty Appointments

Fourteen new appointments to the
faculty at the University for the coming
academic year have been announced by
deans of the various divisions at Wash-
ington and Lee.

Dr. William W. Pusey, III, dean of
the College, said 10 of the newly named
faculty members will teach in the Univer-
sity’s arts and sciences division. Dr. Ed-
ward C. Atwood, Jr., dean of the School
of Commerce, Economics, and Politics, an-
nounced one new appointment, and Dean
Roy L. Steinheimer of the School of Law
announced three.

Dean Atwood said E. William Johnson
will join the staff of the economics de-
partment for the 1970-71 year to replace
a professor who will be on leave. John-
son is currently completing work on his
Ph.D. at the University of Virginia, Dean
Atwood said, and will hold the rank of
instructor at W&L, or assistant professor
when he completes his doctorate.

A native of Silver Spring, Md., John-
son earned his B.A. degree in economics
from the University of Notre Dame.
While working toward his graduate de-
gree at Virginia, he has been a teaching
and research assistant.

Joining the faculty in the School of

Law, Dean Steinheimer said, will be:

—Lawrence D. Gaughan, associate pro-
fessor, an expert in international law,
formerly civilian advisor to the Judge
Advocate General’s School in Charlottes-
ville, and a faculty member at the Uni-
versity of Virginia School of Law.

—Marcus L. Plant, visiting professor,
currently on the faculty of the Univer-
sity of Michigan School of Law, an au-
thority in medical-legal problems who
will teach in the areas of torts and work-
men’s compensation and conduct semi-
nars in related fields at W&L.

—Judge William W. Sweeney of
Lynchburg, visiting lecturer, judge of the
Sixth Judicial Circuit of Virginia since
1965 and a member of the executive com-
mittee of the Judicial Conference of Vir-
ginia, who will conduct a seminar at
W&L in trial procedures and practices.

Two of the appointments in the Col-
lege division are at the assistant professor
level, Dean Pusey said. The remaining
eight are at the instructor level, but five
of the new instructors are nearing com-
pletion of their Ph.D. requirements and
will automatically earn assistant professor
status when they have completed work on
their doctorates.

Additions to the faculty in the Col-
lege are:

—Dr. Henry P. Porter, assistant pro-
fessor of history, coming from the same
position at Miami University (Ohio), a
1954 graduate of Washington and Lee
who holds the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees
from Duke University.

—Halford R. Ryan, instructor in
speech and coach of W&L’s debate team,
who formerly taught and studied at the
University of Illinois, where he is a Ph.D.
candidate (Ryan replaces Prof. William
W. Chaffin, who died in an automobile
accident in February).

—Charles T. Boggs, instructor in philo-
sophy, a 1966 graduate of Washington
and Lee who is a Ph.D. degree candidate
at the University of Texas.

—William E. Bryant, instructor in bio-
logy, an expert in microbiology, holding
the B.A. degree from the University of
Nebraska and the M.S. from the Univer-
sity of Missouri, where he expects to re-
ceive his Ph.D.

—John Holt Merchant, Jr., instructor
in history, a 1961 W&L graduate who
expects to complete his Ph.D. work ex-
cept for the dissertation at the Univer-
sity of Virginia this fall (to replace Dr.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ollinger Crénshaw, who died in March).

Temporary appointments to the fac-
ulty of the College include:

—Dr. George Carlton Farrant, assis-
tant professor of chemistry, a B.A. gradu-
ate of Oberlin College who holds the
Ph.D. from Case-Western Reserve Uni-
versity, formerly a faculty member and
researcher at the University of Virginia.

—Harold C. Hill, instructor in Ger-
man, who studied at the University of
Virginia and in Munich before receiving
his B.A. from George Washington Univer-
sity and his M.A. from the Johns Hop-
kins University, where he is a Ph.D. de-
gree candidate.

—Mrs. Ellen Acker Barnes, instructor
in drama, who holds both the B.A. and
M.F.A. degrees from the University of
North Carolina at Greensboro, formerly
an instructor in theatre at Northern
Michigan University, wife of O. K. Bar-
nes, instructor in drama at W&L since
1969.

—F. Bruce Garrett, instructor in Ger-
man, a Washington and Lee graduate
who has spent considerable time in Ger-
many with the U.S. Army.

—George C. Mandeville, Jr., instruc-
tor in physics, who took the place of a
professor on leave from W&L in the
1968-69 year, a B'S. and M.S. graduate of
Bucknell University and
physicist with a consulting firm.

Previously announced by Dean Pusey
was the appointment of Thomas H. Jones
as head trainer and instructor in physical
education.

Dean Pusey said the 10 appointments
bring the faculty of the College to full
strength for the coming year.

formerly a

Doughty Joins Staff

J. Sanford Doughty, former director of
development at Lake Forest College in
Lake Forest, Ill., has joined the Univer-
sity’s development staff as associate direc-
tor, President Robert E. R. Huntley has
announced.

As associate director, Doughty will
share responsibility for the overall opera-
tion of W&L’s development activities with
Farris P. Hotchkiss, director of the office
since 1967. Hotchkiss will begin spending
more time preparing and carrying out
special projects, President Huntley said
in making the announcement.

Doughty headed Lake Forest College’s
development program for five years before
assuming his new duties at Washington

 

and Lee. Previously, he was manager of
advertising and public relations for Con-
tainer Corporation of America in Chicago.

After receiving his bachelor’s degree
from Williams College, Doughty earned
a master’s degree from the Harvard Busi-
ness School.

So Does Jones

The appointment of Larry D. Jones, a
Washington and Lee law student, as an
assistant in the dean of students’ office
has been announced by Dean of Students
Lewis G. John.

Jones, 24, will work with Associate
Dean William McC. Schildt, who is co-
ordinator of the freshman year at the
University, Dean John said.

A 1969 graduate of Virginia State Col-
lege, Jones began his law studies at
Washington and Lee a year ago. He will
continue to take law courses while work-
ing with Schildt in student matters per-
taining to Washington and Lee’s newly
restructured program of freshman studies.

At Virginia State, Jones was president
of the Pan-Hellenic Council, and he work-
ed as a student assistant in the dean of
student’s office there.

New Parking Areas

Two small, attractively landscaped
parking areas will be developed on Jeffer-
son Street between the existing Lee Cha-
pel parking lot and Washington Street,
officials at Washington and Lee have an-
nounced.

Work already has begun on the two
new areas, which will be screened from
sidewalks by some 300 shrubs and 19 new
trees. Together, the new areas will add
32 parking spaces to the existing facilities.

Designed by Griswold, Winters, &
Swain — Pittsburgh landscape architects —
the two new areas will help relieve park-
ing congestion both for tourists and for
Washington and Lee students and staff.
When they are completed, the Lee Chapel-
Jefferson Street parking areas will accom-
modate a total of 78 vehicles.

D. E. Brady, superintendent of build-
ings and grounds at Washington and Lee,
said the extensive and costly landscaping
which will accompany development of the
areas was designed to enhance the beauty
of the University-owned land on Jeffer-
son and Washington Streets.

No new entrances to the parking areas |

from the street will be included, he said.
Traffic will continue to enter the lots

CAMPUS: 9

via existing driveways on Jefferson Street
across from the Phi Kappa Sigma frater-
nity house and across from Henry Street.

Also to be developed as part of the
project will be walkways leading to Wash-
ington Street and to Washington and Lee’s
main campus from the four parking areas,
Brady said.

The University wants to avoid giving
its parking facilities a “shopping center”
appearance, according to Brady. The new
parking areas should be in use soon, and
the landscaping work should be completed
later in the fall when the weather is bet-
ter for tree and shrub planting, he said.

It's A Gas

The 3l-year-old coal-fired heating
plant at the University is being converted
to natural gas.

The first phase of the conversion job,
which began in July, is expected to be
complete by winter, according to D. E.
Brady, superintendent of buildings and
grounds. At that time, he said, heat for all
buildings on Washington and Lee’s front
campus will be supplied from the gas-
fired facility.

Next year, he said, a stand-by heat
generator will also be converted from
coal to gas, completing the changeover.

Gas was chosen because it burns more
cleanly than other fuels, because a gas
heating plant is less expensive to own and
maintain, and because gas provides the
ereatest efficiency of operation, Brady
said.

Conversion of the existing heating
plant to gas will allow the University to
meet its heating needs without further ex-
pansion for the foreseeable future, he
said, while other methods would require
a considerable increase in the size of the
plant to meet those same needs.

When the conversion has been com-
pleted, a tall smokestack at the plant will
be removed, Brady said.

Washington and Lee’s heating plant
is located in a wooded area behind the
main campus. Steam and hot water are
pumped from it to all 33 University-owned
buildings north of Washington Street and
west of Jefferson Street, including 11
houses occupied by the president, deans,
and members of the faculty.

Plans for converting from coal-gen-
erated heat to gas heat were originally
drawn in 1968, in the interest of efficiency,
economy, and environmental preservation.

Although Washington and Lee’s de-

10: CAMPUS

cision to abandon the use of coal was made
more than two years ago, the August, 1969
flood made it inconvenient and expensive
to continue using coal even on a short-
term basis.

A Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad trestle
leading to Lexington was washed out by
flood waters, and officials of the railroad—
with the encouragement of Washington
and Lee officials — decided to abandon the
Lexington spur altogether.

Since the flood, coal has been brought
by train to Natural Bridge Station, about
12 miles from Lexington. It has been nec-
essary to bring it by truck from there.

To Explain The Law

Dean Roy L. Steinheimer, Jr., of Wash-
ington and Lee’s School of Law has been
named to head a special White House task
force investigating ways of explaining the
American legal system to the country’s
children.

Dean Steinheimer’s 15-member panel
is expected to complete its investigation
and to submit a report and recommenda-
tions to the White House Conference on
Children and Youth, scheduled this De-
cember.

His committee’s report, together with

findings of other Children and Youth Con-
ference study teams, will then be sub-
mitted to President Nixon.

Dean Steinheimer said his group is
plowing new ground” in carrying out
its assignment. “Very little has been done
so far in trying to educate American chil-
dren on the sources of law and the rea-
sons for having laws.”

The group will emphasize bringing the
message of law to pre-high school children,
Dean Steinheimer said.

A White House Conference on Chil-
dren and Youth takes place in the first
year of each new decade.

Others serving on the special task
force are Prof. William M. Gibson of Bos-
ton University’s law school, vice-chairman
of the White House study group; Dr. Mor-
ton Bard, director of the Psychological
Center at the City University of New
York; David Topinka, a freshman at
Wichita State University;

Harvey Friedman, a psychologist and
director of education and training for
New York City’s Addiction Service
Agency; the Rev. Lewis Savary, S.J., a sen-
ior editor for Collins Associates, textbook
publishers; Miss Veda Davis, a student at
George Williams College; Dr. Robert G.

6é

 

 

 

 

 

Law school dean Roy Steinheimer will head 15-member panel to explain American
legal system to children.

Portune, associate professor of secondary
education at the University of Cincinnati;
Mrs. Dorothy Hollingsworth, deputy
director of the Model Cities Program in
Seattle, Wash.; Dr. June Tapp, psycholo-
gist and program director for the Ameri-
can Bar Association and a lecturer at the
University of Chicago; George Shelton, a
family counselor in Tuscaloosa, Ala.;

Mrs. Mary Martinez, a juvenile proba-
tion officer in Taos County, N.M.; Set. J.
Ted Daniels, assistant police community
relations director in Clearwater, Fla.; Miss
Francis Hatfield, supervisor of instruc-
tional materials in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.;
Miss Joanne Buggey, an elementary school
teacher in Minneapolis, Minn.; and Miss

Marcia Magiera, a Chicago educator.

McThenia Appointed

Andrew W. McThenia, Jr., an associ-
ate professor in Washington and Lee’s
School of Law and legal advisor to the
college, has been named to the Virginia
Water Control Board by Gov. Linwood
Holton.

McThenia is a lawyer specializing in
environmental protection. A 1958 gradu-
ate of Washington and Lee, he earned a
master’s degree in geology from Columbia
University before entering Washington
and Lee’s law school. He received his
LL.B. degree in 1963.

He practiced law in Alexandria with
the firm of Boothe, Dudley, Koontz, Blank-
enship, & Stump before returning to Lex-
ington to join the University’s law fac-
ulty in 1967.

He replaces former Del. E. Blackburn
Moore on the Water Control Board.
Moore, a stalwart of the old Byrd organi-
zation in Virginia, was chairman of the
board for 20 years. He drafted the legisla-
tion in 1948 which created it.

McThenia, 35, was appointed to a
four-year term on the board by Gov. Hol-
ton — also a graduate of Washington and
Lee. One other Virginian who is promin-
ent in conservation efforts, Norman M.
Cole of Fairfax County, was also named
to a four-year term on the board. Two
other conservationists were named to one-
year terms: Mrs. Neil A. Holmsburg of
Williamsburg and Ray W. Edwards of
Collinsville.

The appointments of McThenia
and the three other members are generally
viewed as a major effort by Gov. Holton to
increase the board’s effectiveness.

McThenia teaches courses in legal ap-

 

see

 

 

 

proaches to preserving the environment
and natural resources, contracts, equity,
and federal anti-trust laws at Washington
and Lee.

He is the second Washington and Lee
official to be named to a major state board
by Gov. Holton. Earlier this year, Wash-
ington and Lee president Robert E. R.
Huntley was named to the State Board of
Education.

New Courses Added

A special series of one-credit courses
stressing the geologist’s concern with prob-
lems of water usage, urban planning, the
relationship between population and na-
tural resources, and other topics of cur-
rent social interest were among the major
innovations in Washington and Lee’s geo-
logy department when fall term classes
began in September.

Among the special one-credit offerings
being introduced this year are courses in
urban and regional planning, man and
natural resources, meteorology, and water
resources in planning.

In addition, new courses will be taught
about the moon, geological evidence re-
garding the descent of man, “‘the great
Ice Age,” oil and gas geology, and the ori-
gin of the earth. In all 10 new courses
will be added. ©

Camille Research

Community responses in Rockbridge,
Amherst, and Nelson counties to the Au-
gust, 1969 flood demonstrated the vital
need for advance disaster planning, ac-
cording to a report prepared for federal
and state governmental agencies by Wash-
ington and Lee University faculty and stu-
dents.

Research for the report, which con-
sisted of in-depth personal interviews with
some 224 property owners who were seri-
ously affected by the flood, was sponsored
by a joint grant from the federal Office of
Emergency Preparedness and the Virginia
Office of Civil Defense. The report pre-
sented 28 major findings and recommen-
dations.

The inadequacy of electronic com-
munication systems was seen as the most
serious problem in responding efficiently
to the emergency once it had set in.

The report noted that Nelson County
was the only area covered by the research
which had prepared a disaster plan, and
concluded that “the Camille emergency
was an eloquent demonstration that com-

 

munities [which paid] at least minimum
attention to disaster planning functioned,
on the whole, better than those without.”

Among other major conclusions of the
Washington and Lee study:

—The flood produced a general aware-
ness in the communities of the need for a
disaster plan, but that awareness gener-
ally has not yet led to action.

—Professional disaster “experts” are ex-
tremely useful in such crisis situations.
They should be available to be flown in
when disaster strikes, and their help gen-
erally would be welcomed by local leaders.

—Helicopters were of immense help in
rescue operations after the onset of the
flood. There should, however, be a meth-
od of securing more helicopters quickly
for emergency service.

—The peculiar nature of the Camille
flood, primarily the fact that it was an
unfamiliar phenomenon and which most
people would think ‘unbelievable,’ made
the idea of any sort of advance warning
system completely impractical.

Missionaries of the Mennonite Church,
who came to the flood-stricken areas from
northern Virginia, Pennsylvania, and
other parts of the country, were viewed by
flood victims as the most generous and
helpful of relief agencies.

—The American Red Cross, also per-
ceived to have been exceptionally helpful,
was also the most widely criticized agency
by victims, though there was no agreement
on “what the Red Cross had done wrong.”
This reaction can probably be attributed
to the high visibility of the Red Cross.
People know more about it than they
know about any similar disaster assistance
eroup, and expect the most from it. The
Red Cross, therefore, becomes a “lightning
rod” for complaints.

—Almost half the victims interviewed
said they would be willing to buy flood in-
surance, and the premiums they said they
would pay seem to make the idea practi-
cal.

—The role of the federal government
in disaster relief is increasing, and two
results are evident: first, there will be a
greater standardization or equality of aid,
and, second, there will be less flexibility
when pre-determined governmental rules
must be followed. The greater equality in
distributing assistance is desirable, and is
not easily achieved when a large number
of private agencies are involved; but the
loss of flexibility associated with federal
disaster programs is a major disadvantage.

CAMPUS: 11

A simulated “emergency” rescue opera-
tion, a type of “rehearsal” for an unantici-
pated disaster, had taken place in Nelson
County 15 months before the flood, and
the report concluded that such an experi-
ence was directly responsible for the re-
markable quickness and efficiency of Nel-
son County’s response to Camille.

Services performed in the emergency
by State Police also were highly commend-
ed by the investigators.

The 224 persons interviewed in the
survey suffered an average loss of $7,650
from Camille, but received, on the aver-
age, only $4,400, or 58 per cent of their
losses, in assistance.

Flood insurance, currently not sold in
Virginia, could be practical, the investi-
gation suggested, at premiums of approxt-
mately $3 to $7 a month, which a substan-
tial number of those interviewed said
they would pay. Another flood insurance
alternative would be for the federal gov-
ernment to underwrite it, rather than con-
tinue to provide flood relief on an emer-
gency basis.

The Washington and Lee study also
showed a significant minority of individual
citizens to be somewhat gloomy and pessi-
mistic about the chances for complete re-
covery from the effects of Camille, even
when interviewed a year after the flood.
Leaders of business and local government,
however, were much more optimistic.

Heading the team of investigators
which designed and conducted the re-
search connected with the report was Dr.
William Buchanan, professor of politics at
Washington and Lee and head of the
department.

Co-authors were Dr. Edward C. At-
wood, dean of the University’s School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics and
professor of economics; Dr. Emory Kim-
brough, Jr., professor of sociology and head
of that department; and Homer F. Gam-
ble of Charleston, S.C., a politics major
who was graduated from Washington and
Lee in June but who continued to work
during the summer on the flood research.

Individual interviews were conducted
by nine politics students from Washing-
ton and Lee: Harry H. Hill and Stuart C.
Fauber, both of Lynchburg; John Laurens,
III and Calvin H. Seaton, both of Little
Rock, Ark.; Robert C. Lee of El Dorado,
Ark.; Linwood Smothers of Lexington;
Francis P. Rasberry of Kinston, N. G.;
Joseph D. Raine of Louisville, Ky.; and
Thomas O. Metcalf of Watertown, Mass.

 

1a: ATHLETICS

Corrigan Resigns AD Post
To Take Job At Virginia

Accepting an offer he said he just
couldn’t turn down, Gene Corrigan has re-
signed as director of athletics at Washing-
ton and Lee to become director of athletic
programs at the University of Virginia.

In what is to be a unique administra-
tive position in college sports, Corrigan
will have full responsibility for Virginia’s
intercollegiate athletics, intramural and
extramural programs, recreational and
services activities, and athletic develop-
ment efforts.

It is unique because of the broad range
of responsibilities, and the placement of
Corrigan in the administrative chain of
command—between Cavaliers’ athletic di-
rector Steve Sebo and Dr. D. Alan Wil-
liams, vice president for student affairs.
Through Williams, Corrigan will be re-
sponsible to UVa president Dr. Edgar F.
Shannon.

In announcing his resignation on Oct.
1, Corrigan said his decision wasn’t popu-
lar at home, “especially since they’ve
been so nice to me at W&L and because
my wife and children love it here. I’ve
worked with a great president, and I’ve
had no complaints.”

But Corrigan added that the new job
“is a remarkable and extraordinary oppor-
tunity, and the breadth of the position is
very attractive.”

When he became W&L’s athletic di-
rector early in 1969, he said at the time
that his decision to leave the Atlantic
Coast Conference office (where he was an
administrative assistant to commissioner
Jim Weaver and considered to be in line
for the commissioner’s job when it became
vacant) was the most difficult he’d ever
made,

“Leaving Washington and Lee,” he
said, “is even more difficult, but the
chance to fill this position at Virginia is
one I cannot refuse. I feel if I hadn’t
taken it, then I’d always sit here and
wonder why I didn’t.”

Corrigan said that his decision to take
the Charlottesville job was one he made
himself, and that “thinking about it ab-
solutely ruined my summer.”

He was first approached by Virginia
officials in July, but at that time there was
no specific job description and_ things
were muddled. Corrigan said he wanted to

 

know more about the job, a position that
was created primarily to boost the Cava-
liers’ development efforts and to help re-
lieve the administrative workload in Vir-
ginia’s growing athletic program.

“They felt there was a need for some-
one to oversee the entire sports program,
and I suppose I was approached because
I had been at Virginia before, because of
my previous involvement with the con-
ference, and because I had experience
with the broad sports program at Wash-

ington and Lee,” Corrigan said.

Corrigan then went to the West Coast
for a family vacation, with a side trip to
Seattle for a NCAA meeting, and upon his
return discussed the matter further with
Virginia officials. In late September, he
made the decision to go to Virginia.

“We are sorry—very sorry, indeed—to
lose the services of Gene Corrigan,” Wash-
ington and Lee president Robert Huntley
said after the announcement. “He brings
to college athletics a truly rare combina-
tion of personality, broad knowledge, di-
verse experience, and astute appreciation
of the integrity of sports within the frame-
work of higher education.

“The quality of his work with us and

 

Washington and Lee athletic director Gene Corrigan—his decision to return to
Charlottesville wasn’t popular at home.

 

“>

 

 

—
Sona ~
Ma

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his influence upon our program affords us
a position of substantial strength as we
consider the choice of a successor.”

Huntley added that Washington and
Lee expects to be able to select a new
athletic director without undue delay, and
that already a number of candidates are
being considered.

In Charlottesville, University of Vir-
ginia president Shannon said: “The Uni-
versity must be vigorously competitive in
intercollegiate athletics, and I expect Mr.
Corrigan to provide strong, new leader-
ship for our excellent athletic staff to in-
sure the University is fully competitive
in every intercollegiate sport.

“With a student body of 10,500 and
with continued growth projected through-
out the 1970’s, the University must pro-
vide ample opportunities and facilities for
our students—both men and women—to
participate in a variety of athletic and
recreation programs.

“Mr. Corrigan’s experience and out-
standing record uniquely equip him to
provide the leadership in this very im-
portant new position here.”

Corrigan’s appointment is coincidental
with a general expansion of UVa athletic
facilities. A $1 million swimming pool
annex currently is,under construction, as
is a new nine-lane outdoor track. Me-
morial Gymnasium has been renovated to
improve intramural and physical educa-
tion facilities, and a future project is the
construction of a new football stadium to
replace 24,000-seat Scott Stadium.

Corrigan, 42, is a 1952 graduate of
Duke University. In 1955, he joined the
athletic staff of Washington and Lee to
coach basketball, soccer, and lacrosse. He
joined the athletic staff at Virginia in 1958
to coach the same three sports, and subse-
quently became sports information direc-
tor, in addition to his coaching duties.
While at Virginia, he was elected to Omi-
cron Delta Kappa, the national honorary
leadership society, and one year received
an award from UVa students for doing
the most for student-faculty relations.

In 1967, he left Virginia to take an
administrative position with the ACC of-
fice in Greensboro, N.C., where he re-
mained until accepting a job as Washing-
ton and Lee’s athletic director in 1969.

During the past year, Corrigan super-
vised the beginning of work on a $3 mil-
lion addition to Doremus Gymnasium,
and he was instrumental in cementing re-
lations with Washington and Lee alumni

 

AWALETICS 313

 

With Washington and Lee head football coach Buck Leslie are six players from Lexington.
On the front row (Il. to r.) are halfback Johnny Sheridan, fullback Jim Farrar, and
defensive back Marshall Washburn. On the back row are offensive tackle John Sorrells,
kicking specialist Doug Chase, and defensive end Bucky Leslie. A full report on the
football season will be carried in the next issue of the Alumnus.

and friends through visits and speeches.
With Generals’ lacrosse coach Dick Szlasa,
Corrigan was a co-chairman of the 29th
annual North-South all-star lacrosse game
this past spring, the first time the event
was held south of Maryland.

He is a member of the NCAA’s long-
range planning committee.

Mike Neer (cont.)

Former Washington and Lee basket-
ball star Mike Neer has signed a contract
to play professional ball this year in Italy.

Neer, a 6-7 center who graduated last
June, will be the only ‘American on the
Bologna team which competes in a 12-
team European professional league.

“I’m really excited. about it,’ Neer
commented from his Alexandria, Va. home
before leaving. “I’m real happy to be
getting a chance to play professional bas-
ketball, and, financially, it will be super.”

Neer said his salary will be a “good
one” and he'll also have free room and
board and use of a car, plus a chance for
some bonus money if the team makes the
post-season playoffs. He’ll also be able to
take graduate work at the University of
Bologna.

Neer was recommended for the Italian
pro league by Bob Cousy and the general
manager of the Cincinnati Royals, Joe
Axelson. Neer made an impressive show-
ing while attending the Royals’ rookie
tryout camp conducted by Cousy this

summer in New Hampshire. Scouts from
the Italian league first saw him there and
were impressed.

‘He looked good and showed promise,’
Alexson said from the Royals’ office in
Cincinnati. “But we felt the transition to
forward in the NBA would be too much
for him at the present time.”’

Alexson indicated that with some pro-
fessional experience, Neer might make the
erade in the NBA. Neer played center for
W&L and admittedly must work on his
outside shooting to play forward.

“The Italian scouts were impressed
with my jumping ability,” said Neer. “In
that league, it’s legal to b'ock shots above
the rim and to stuff the ball.”

Several current professional stars have
played in the league, including Bill Brad-
ley while a Rhodes Scholar in England,
Terry Driscoll, and Doug Moe. Driscoll,
now with the Boston Celtics, was the
American player on the Bologna team last
year.

“Driscoll told me it was really a great
deal,” Neer said. ‘““The Americans are
treated as celebrities in the towns where
they play.”

But they also can get the equivalent of
the Italian bum’s rush. “At the end of the
year,” Need said, “the two last-place teams
are demoted to the minor leagues and the

?

two best minor league teams move up. If

you finish last or next-to-last, they run
you out of town.”

14: ATHLETICS

RUGBY IS GENTLEMANLY MAYHEM

Rugby, what appears to be a cross between
soccer and football with a certain amount of vio-
lence thrown in, finally seems to have made it on
the Washington and Lee campus.

Begun several years ago by some ambitious law
students, it was for a while just a Sunday afternoon
frolic that suffered mostly from a lack of attention,
a roster of inexperienced players, and a shoe-string
budget. It was, for all intents and purposes, a fam-
ily get-together where law school wives could cheer
on their overweight husbands, and about the only
thing guaranteed was the traditional post-game keg
and group sing.

Now, it’s serious business. Over the years, the
Washington and Lee Rugby Club has matured
enough so that by now the team draws respectable
crowds; rookies have given way to veterans; and
the budget has substance, although club president
‘Tom Baker says the team could still use a little
help.

The schedule has been increased to around 20
games a year, 10 in the fall and 10 in the spring,
and the club sponsors its own tournament each
year, usually drawing teams from around the state
and the East Coast.

If rugby is a sport that seems hard to popularize,
it is perfectly understandable. It does take a while
to fully appreciate the game, what with all its idio-
syncrasies. And the fact that rugby grew out of
someone’s folly probably helps explain its mystique.

The game was originated in the borough of
Rugby in Warwickshire, England in 1823 when a
soccer player picked up the ball and took off down-
field instead of kicking it. Games of this sort soon
followed, and, in 1871, the English Rugby Union
was formed to standardize the sport. It was intro-
duced to the United States in 1875, but made little
headway. |

The rugby field is 160 yards long and 75 yards
wide, with goal lines 110 yards apart (two 25-yard-
long “‘in-goals” correspond to football’s end zones).
A team consists of eight forwards and seven backs,
and no substitutions are permitted during the 80-
minute game (divided by a half-time). Action,
therefore, is almost continuous, and a team has to
play short if one of its members sustains injury.

If anything makes the game exciting, it’s the
hell-bent-for-leather manner in which it is played.
As in football, the object is to advance the slightly
bloated ball into the opponent’s in-goal, but to do
so usually takes some determination and twice as
much courage. A player, without the benefit of pro-
tective gear, must avoid tacklers, and he has to do
it on his own—blocking is not allowed. If he is
about to be tackled, a deft ball carrier either will
lateral off to a teammate or he will kick the ball
downfield. This relieves him of a bad situation and

9?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ATILETICS 35

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ba

 

 

 

 

 

     

Zl

©
©

SOLIVALY

 

 

 

 

AVALEVICGS st7

 

 

puts the opponent at a disadvantage. On the other
hand, a zealous ball carrier simply wiil lower his
head and take whatever comes his way—most of the
time someone else’s head. It’s not a game for lovers.

If a player can move the ball into his opponent’s
in-goal, it’s worth three points, and his side can
then go for the two-point place kick conversion. A
team can also score three points with a field goal,
either as a result of a penalty or by a drop-kick, an
art American ruggers haven’t developed too well.

Above all, though, with its fury and all-out un-
ruliness, its desperation and commotion, rugby re-
tains an element of sophistication and order. Bad
tempers are not tolerated, and it is considered poor
taste to raise your voice in anger. At the end of a
rough game, the opposing sides will cheer each
other heartily, shake hands solidly, and then be off
to trade quaffs from the keg.

’

As the photographs that illustrate this article
indicate, the life of a rugby player can be precari-
ous, to say the least. They were taken during a re-
cent match between Washington and Lee and the
University of Virginia. Washington and Lee is
wearing the lighter striped jerseys.

 

183 ALUMNI

Turville’s Bet Pays Off;
U.S. Wins Davis Cup

About the only thing Ed Turville has done wrong
this year is to make a bad guess on foreign tennis teams.

Last March, just after he had been named to succeed
Donald Dell as captain of the U.S. Davis Cup team, ‘Tur-
ville was thinking ahead to August and trying to pick the
country that would be challenging the Americans for the
1970 Cup.

“Actually, I think we'll be meeting the team we de-
feated last year—Rumania,” Turville said. “The records
of the Rumanians on the winter circuit are far superior
to the other European players. The big battle I see is be-
tween Rumania and Spain in the interzone matches, and
this should be something. Manuel Santana plays like a
wild man, anyway, and when he plays in Spain he’s some-
thing.

“Really, I don’t care who we play. All I want to do is
win.”

Which is what he did in no uncertain terms. Six
months later in Cleveland, he went with Arthur Ashe and
Cliff Richey in the opening singles matches, selected Stan
Smith and Bob Lutz for the doubles, then finished with
Richey and Ashe in the closing singles to win easily, 5-0,
... over West Germany.

It was the third straight United States challenge round
victory, and it proved that Turville was a better captain
than he was a sage. His selection of Ashe as the opening
U.S. singles player was assumed, of course, but his decision
to go with Richey against West Germany's top player,
Christian Kuhnke, in the second singles match was a
gamble he won.

Often erratic and tempermental but nevertheless an
outstanding player, particularly this year, Richey didn’t
seem to be the logical choice. Smith, ranked No. 1 in the
U.S., did. But Richey also has this thing about being
competitive, and, following Ashe’s 6-2, 10-8, 6-2 rout of
Wilhelm Bengert, he cracked past Kuhnke, 6-3, 6-4, 6-2,
and then went over to get a handshake from his smiling
captain.

Smith and Lutz won the doubles, 6-3, 7-5, 6-4, to assure
_ the win the following day. On the last day of the challenge
round, Richey easily dispatched Bungert, 6-4, 6-4, 7-5, and
Ashe won over Kuhnke, 6-8, 10-12, 9-7, 13-11, 6-4. Their
86 games was a new Davis Cup record.

Richey’s fierce play during the matches won him the
most valuable player’s award from writers covering the
challenge round.

 

 

For Turville, a 1936 graduate of Washington and
Lee, it had to be the high point of a life devoted to tennis.
An attorney from St. Petersburg, Fla., he began playing
in high school, but had to give up the sport in college to
hold down two jobs—one in the president’s office and the
other grading economics papers. He says that it was kind
of a kick in the pants because he had enjoyed competitive
tennis so much before going to college.

After graduation and law school, Turville joined the
Navy during World War II. “I guess I had a most unusual
situation then,” he remembers. “I served for over a year
with Admiral Hoover, commander of the forward area,
and Admiral Hoover was a tennis nut. Every island we
would capture, he would have a tennis court built on it,
and we had tennis courts everywhere—Saipan, Guam, and
so on. So every now and then I managed to get my hands
on a racquet and do a little playing.

“After I got back to the States, it just so happened that
our new commander, Admiral Anderson, was another
tennis nut, and so I got to play even more. I was stationed
in Miami then. I think it was peculiar that I should have
been connected with both.of those men when I was in the
service.”

Upon his discharge, Turville returned to St. Peters-
burg, his hometown, and began practicing law. It was
then that he became interested in local tennis, “mainly
because my wife was the city champion and we were
playing a lot of mixed doubles.”

Somewhere along the line, he says, he became interest-
ed in the tournament the club was sponsoring each year,
and eventually became its chairman. “As a result, I got to
know some of the people who were interested in tennis
throughout the state, and out of this grew the Florida
Lawn Tennis Association, founded in 1950.” Turville was
its first president and served in that capacity for five years.

Because of his active interest in the FLTA, Turville
subsequently was elected a delegate to the United States
Lawn Tennis Association, and then became a member of
its executive committee. Later, he was elected a second
vice president, then a first vice president, and, in 1961,
he was elected president of the organization.

During a two-year period, he says, he practiced law
half the time and devoted the other half to worldwide
tennis. In 1961, he took a United States team to Russia,
and it won, and a year later he was in Australia, in his
capacity as president of the USLTA, to watch the Ameri-
cans recover the Davis Cup after years of Australian
domination. :

When Donald Dell resigned as captain of the U.S.
Davis Cup team early this year, Turville was named the
successor. “It’s a peculiar thing, and I can’t tell you how
or give you any inclination why I was appointed,” he
said afterwards. “The president of the USLTA selects the
captain, and I had to do this one time, and I appointed
a captain that I didn’t know three months before I made
the decision. All I can say is that fortunately it was the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

best selection I ever made, because he—Bob Keller—won
back the Cup.

“It is something that the president of the organiza-
tion must do and for which he must accept responsibility.
It is a lonesome job, and often not a pleasant one, for he
takes the grief for all the losses, and he certainly doesn’t
get any credit for the wins, because that belongs, as it
should, with the players.”

After his appointment, Turville spent the spring and
summer on the road, traveling to tournaments both here
and abroad to review players he might select for the team.
In the meantime, he named Dennis Ralston to coach the
squad, feeling that Ralston had as much knowledge of the
game as anybody and because he was a disciplinarian.

“T felt Ralston would do a great job getting our
players in shape,” Turville said. “He takes terrific pride in
working with the team.”

And, finally, during the fading days of August, Tur-
ville and team members Ashe, Richey, Smith, and Lutz
went to Cleveland to defend the Cup the Americans had
held for two years running. They arrived 15 days before
the challenge round was to begin to get tuned in to the
fast surface they would be playing on. In sharp contrast,
the West German squad showed up just four days ahead
of the matches, and it could have been their unfamiliarity
with the zippy courts that helped do them in.

Yet the West Germans weren’t the only uncertain ones
around at this particular Davis Cup meeting. Overall,
there was a general apprehension that this was to be the
last challenge round played, growing out of a dispute
that Davis Cup competition should be opened up to the
contract professionals.

Ashe thinks it should, mainly to assure that the
world’s top players will not be barred from meeting each
other in such a prestigious event, as they now are. Tur-
ville thinks that it will be opened.

“J don’t think there is any question about it. The big
problem is developing a format for it, how it is to be
handled, whether the contract players will be available,
and under what terms and conditions we will agree upon.
And will these contract players be willing to accept the
fact that there is no monetary reward for Davis Cup play,
aside from per diem and travel expenses? It is going to
mean sacrifices on their part. My feeling is that they will
accept these sacrifices and do it.”

If the Davis Cup is opened, then it is almost a sure
bet that Turville will be leading the American team
against the Australians next year, so strong are the Aussie
contract pros. For tennis fans, it would mean the return
of the Australian-United States rivalry that for so long
dominated Davis Cup play, and for the players it would
mean, as Arthur Ashe hopes, a renewal of more competi-
tive matches in the prestigious event.

For Turville, the man who said Rumania but got West
Germany, it would mean that he could begin making safe
ueSses.

 

ALUMNI :19

Washington and Lee alumnus Ed Turville—successful new
captain of U.S. Davis Cup team.

 

20: ALUMNI

 

Mrs. duPont: She Made Good Things Possible _

Mrs. Alfred I. duPont, a member of
the Washington and Lee Board of
Trustees since 1959 and one of the
University’s most generous benefactors,
died on September 26 at her family es-
tate near Wilmington, Del. She was 86.

President Huntley said:

“Mrs. duPont’s death brings a deep
and personal sadness to the entire
Washington and Lee University family.
So many of us were privileged to work
closely with her during the 10 years
she served as a member of the Board
of ‘Trustees and over the much longer
span of generous friendship, during
which she became this University’s
greatest benefactor.

“Her interest in Washington and
Lee made so many good things pos-
sible, but nothing surpasses the oppor-
tunities that came to hundreds upon

 

ance here was made possible through
scholarships that Mrs. duPont’s far-
sighted philantrophy provided. Our
late president, Dr. Francis P. Gaines,
often described those young men to
Mrs. duPont as ‘her boys.’ I am very
proud to be able to say that I was one
of ‘her boys.’ It is gratifying, too, to
realize that countless other student
generations will continue to be touched
by the kindness and love of this won-
derful lady.”

Mrs. duPont, a native of Virginia,
was a major benefactor of many other
institutions, including Hollins College,
Mary Washington College, the Virginia
Museum of Fine Arts, and the Univer-
sity of the South. In 1956, the Virginia
Chamber of Commerce selected her for
a special award “‘for her service to Vir-
ginia and to education in the Old

She gave Washington and Lee some
$7 million in gifts over the past 30
years. She created several substantial
scholarship funds, to which she added
considerable sums frequently, and con-
tributed several millions to various pro-
grams at the University and for unex-
pected special needs.

She was the first woman to serve on
the University’s Board of Trustees. In
1947, Washington and Lee awarded
her the honorary degree of Doctor of
Humane Letters.

Her husband, Alfred I. duPont, or-
ganized E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co.
and was a grandson of the founder of
the duPont industrial empire. They
were married in 1921, and he died in
1935. Mrs. duPont had been in ill
health for a number of years and had
lived in seclusion at the family estate.

hundreds of young men whose attend-

Dominion.”

Private funeral services were held.

 

 

YOURS FOR ASKING

Would you like to be kept informed
about the sport of your interest at Wash-
ington and Lee? If so, join the club. It’s
free. The Athletic Department has initiat-
ed this year a series of clubs called
“Friends of Football (Swimming, Lacrosse,
etc.).”’ The coaches of each sport send let-
ters frequently during the school year to
club members.

All you have to do to join is fill in and
return the attached coupon to the De-
partment of Athletics, Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450.

Yes, put me on the mailing list. I am
particularly interested in the following sports:

 

 

 

be eas Baseball ee
Ue. Basketball reo eee
ee Cross-Country ......Swimming
eee. Football a sala & OO
pecs Golf Sitio
fas Lacrosse ...... Wrestling

Name

Address

City State Zip Code

 

Trustee Hendon, Mrs. and President Huntley at the Birmingham meeting.

CHAPTER NEWS

CLEVELAND. A _ reception-dinner in
honor of the new freshmen from the
Cleveland area was held at the Skating
Club in Shaker Heights on Aug. 18.
Special guest of the chapter was Edward
A. Turville, ’36, captain of the U.S. Davis
Cup team that retained its title with a 5-0
win over West Germany. Alumni Secretary
Bill Washburn was on hand to officially
welcome the new students to the Univer-
sity.

BIRMINGHAM. Alumni from through-
out the state of Alabama joined in Bir-
mingham on Aug. 21 to honor President
and Mrs. Huntley. A barbeque picnic was
held on Smyers Lake in the afternoon, fol-

lowed by a formal banquet at the Relay
House that evening, where outgoing chap-
ter president Jcha Coe, ’25 introduced
the chapter’s new officers: president Wil-
liam E. Smith, Jr., 63; vice president John
W. Clark, Jr., 64; and secretary-treasurer
Daniel H. Markstein, II, 63. John F.
Hendon, ’24, a member of the University’s
board of trustees, introduced the other
trustees who were present—Joseph E. Bir-
nie, ’27, of Atlanta, Ga.; E. Marshall Nuc-
kols, ’33, of Camden, N.J.; and Jonathan
W. Warner, 41, of Tuscaloosa, Ala. Guests
from the University included Treasurer
James Whitehead, Director of Develop-
ment Farris Hotchkiss, and Alumni Secre-
tary Bill Washburn.

 

 

 

 

CLASS NOTES

 

 

"THE

WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ‘14.
Price: $39.00 f.o.b.

Gardner, Massachusetts

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
The normal shipping interval is

five to six weeks after the receipt of
the order.

 

 

 

 

1905

CoL. Daviy TAy Moore, ’o05, secretary and
treasurer for many years, and COoL. JOSEPH
MARIAN Moore, ’08, president, have retired
from active service at Greenbrier Military
School in Lewisburg, W.Va., ending two of
the longest tenures of service in the educa-
tional field in the state of West Virginia.

1917

WILLIAM O. BuRTNER, a native of Harrison-
burg, Va., has been elected to the board of
trustees of the Shenandoah College and Con-
servatory of Music. Burtner practiced law
before joining the U.S. Department of Just-
ice. For eight years prior to his retirement
in 1962, he was special assistant to the U.S.
Attorney General.

1922

Dr. Harry Lyons retired in July after serv-
ing two decades as dean of the School of
Dentistry at the Medical College of Virginia.
Lyons is a past president of the American
Dental Association and a past president of
the American College of Dentists.

1925

JosePH R. Lone, after 35 years with the firm
of Fordyce, Mayne, Hartman, Renard, &
Stribling of St. Louis, has resigned from the
general practice of law. He still continues to
do some legal work for some local corpora-

| 1926

Retiring after 44 years with Western Union
Telegraph Co., JOHN M. MAcBryYDE is now
with the Internal Revenue Service in Chamb-

lee, Ga.
1934

GrorGE D. McCvure, a Dallas insurance repre-
sentative, is potentate of the Hella Temple,
which took several honors at the Shriner’s
convention in Galveston in May.

WALDO G. MILES, a Bristol, Va., attorney, was
elected president of the State Board of Educa-
tion in March, 1970. He has been a member
of the board since 1963. Miles is a member
of the State Advisory Council on Economic
Education, the State Mental Retardation
Planning Council, the board of visitors of
VPI, and the board of visitors of Sullins Col-
lege. On the state level, Miles served as a
member of the Virginia Tax Study Commis-
sion. He also was chairman of the Governor’s
Regional Conference on Education in 1967.

The Acushnet Co., manufacturers of golf
equipment and precision molded rubber pro-
ducts, has announced the election of HOLMES
M. Dyer as vice president—general sales man-
ager of the rubber division.

1937

James S. BRUCE has become director of East-
man Kodak Company’s photographic techno-
logy division in Rochester, N.Y. He was a
former associate director of the division.
Bruce started his association with Kodak in
July, 1939 as an engineer in the paper service
division, following completion of his mas-

CLASS NOTES 321

ter’s degree in chemcial engineering at MIT.
In 1952, he was appointed assistant super-
intendent of the paper service division. Fol-
lowing assignments as director of company
training and director of business and techni-
cal personnel, Bruce was appointed associate
director of photographic technology in 1965.
He is a member of numerous professional
associations, and his publications include a
paper on “Stabilization Processing of Films
and Papers.”

DonaLp R. Moore, a hearing examiner for
the Federal Trade Commission, has recently
been elected treasurer of the Federal Trial
Examiners Conference. He is also a national
officer of Phi Alpha Delta law fraternity.

1938

R. Epwarp SURLES went on a photography
safari this past spring to East Africa and a
tour in Morocco and Tunis.

LANDON Y. JONES, executive vice president for
finance and administration for Pet, Inc. in
St. Louis, has been elected a member of the
board of directors of the Bank Building Corp.

1939

Nei. T. Houston is now living in London
and working as a free-lance consulting econo-
mist, specializing in the field of economic
development.

1943

RussELL H. Nettson is vice president of
Wayne Watson Co., a manufacturers repre-
sentative for athletic goods in Atlanta.

1945

Army Reserve Cort. JOHN H. SoRRELLS, JR.,
promotion editor of the Commercial Appeal
in Memphis, graduated from the U.S. Army
War College non-resident instruction course.
The course is designed to prepare senior of-
ficers for top level command.

1946

Josep N. Morratr, a former regional public
relations manager for Reynolds Metals Co. in
Los Angeles, has been named by Reynolds as
the regional public relations manager in
Portland, Ore. Moffatt joined the company
in Richmond, Va. in 1965, and during his
tenure with Reynolds he has served as public
relations manager for all of the company’s
major market areas, and he was also editor
of publications.

1949

Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. has an-
nounced the election of H. DEBAUN BRYANT,
general counsel, as a corporate director. Bry-
ant became a member of B&W’s legal staff
in 1954. He was appointed assistant general
counsel in 1959 and general counsel this year.
Recently, he completed the advanced man-
agement program at the Harvard University
School of Business. Bryant is a member of
the Louisville and American Bar Associa-
tions. He is also a member of the executive
management division of the National As-
sociation of Tobacco Distributors and a mem-

44: GLASS NOTES

ber and former president of the Centre
College board of overseers. Bryant is cur-
rently a member of the board of directors and
of the executive committee of the Louisville
Theatrical Association.

195}

RICHARD B. ‘TAYLOR, a 15-year Las Vegas
resident and investment counselor, has an-
nounced that he will run for leutenant gov-
ernor of the state of Nevada. Taylor is vice
president of Weston & Co., Inc., an invest-
ment security firm. Previously, he had been
managing director of the Hacienda Hotel for
10 years and managing director of the New
Frontier Hotel for two years. Taylor is a
board member of the YMCA and has been
vice chairman of the Red Rock District Boy
Scouts.

1955

Dr. WILLIAM C. MIEHER, JR., and his two sons
live in San Angelo, Tex., where he practices
internal medicine and cardiology. His friends
are saddened to know of the death of his
wife, Claire Webb Mieher, on July 15.

1954

Since September, 1968, BERTRAM S. GRIFFITH,
Jr., has been regional dealer sales manager
for Bell & Howell Co., business equipment

group.

WILLIAM B. THompsoN, formerly of Chat-
tanooga, has been elected a vice president of
‘T. Rowe Price & Associates, Inc., a Baltimore,
Md., investment counsel and research firm.
He has also been elected a vice president and
director of the Rowe Price New Era Fund,
Inc., one of three no-load mutual funds
sponsored by the Price organization. Thomp-
son joined T. Rowe Price in 1962 after serv-
ing with the American National Bank &
Trust Co. in Chattanooga.

REv. RICHARD 'T. HARBISON has become mini-
ster of the Broadmoor Presbyterian Church
in Baton Rouge, La.

 

H. DEBAUN BRYANT, '49

WILLIAM B. THOMPSON, ’54

1956
BORN; Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM C. NORMAN,

JR., of Crossett, Ark., announce the adoption
of a son, Allen Anderson, born June 24.

C. LAURENCE TALBOTT, JR., has joined Scott
Aviation Co. in Charlottesville, Va.

‘TREVOR ARMBRISTER has written a book, A
matter of Accountability; The True Story
of the Pueblo Affair, which has recently
been published by Cowad-McCann.

1957

Lioyp A. Dosyns, JR., has been appointed di-
rector of NBC News in Chicago. Prior to ac-
cepting his new post, Dobyns was manager
of television news operations for WNBC-TV
in New York. Dobyns began his news career
in 1957 with station WDBJ-TV in Roanoke,
Va., as a radio-TV reporter. He joined sta-
tion WAVY, an NBC affiliate in Norfolk, Va.,
in 1960, and he became news director in
1963. Dobyns has served as both vice presi-
dent and president of the National Society
of Professional Journalists.

Dr. JosepH M. ALANIS, Denver anethesiologist,
has been promoted to assistant clinical pro-
fessor of anesthesiology on the volunteer
faculty of the University of Colorado School

of Medicine.
1958

ARCHIE QO. JENKINS of Jacksonville, Fla., has
recently formed the Quanta Capital Corp.

£999

A. C. HUBBARD, JR., has been elected vice .presi-
dent of TIT. Rowe Price & Associates, Inc.,
a Baltimore-based investment counselling
firm. Hubbard joined the firm in 1962 as a
security analyst.

R. Conrad LEMON has become public rela-
tions manager of Humble Oil & Refining
Company’s Southeastern Division. Before
joining Humble, Lemon was associated with
the Posi-Gazette in Pittsburgh, Pa., and the

 

Richmond Times-Dispatch. He joined the
Humble publications section in 1965.

BERTRAND R. HUDNALL, formerly with Virginia
Episcopal School in Lynchburg, has been
named assistant director of admissions at
Randolph-Macon Woman's College.

1960

MARRIED; JOHN S. HOPEWELL to Elizabeth
Zimmerman on July 25 in Charlottesville, Va.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. LESLIE E. GAut, it. 4
daughter, Emily Breck, on June 25.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. W. HAyEs Gowen, a
daughter, Elizabeth Gay, on June 1. Gowen,
a former officer of the First National Bank
of Memphis, is now vice president and trust
officer of the Trust Co. of Florida in Orlando.

In the practice of obstetrics and gynecology
in Princeton, N.J., DR. JosEpH E. RINGLAND
is also on the staff of Cornell Medical College.

After receiving his medical degree from Van-
derbilt in 1963, Dr. JAMES B. THRELKEL serv-
ed as chief of surgical services at Turner Air
Force Base. He is currently chief resident sur-
geon at Vanderbilt University Hospital.

1961

WILLIAM N. MARTIN has been named secre-
tary, group division, at Aetna Life & Casualty
Co. Martin joined the company in 1961. He
was named to a supervisory position in 1966,
advanced to administrator in 1967, and ap-
pointed assistant secretary the following year.

After receiving his LL.M. from New York
University, NATHAN B. Simpson is with the
law firm of MacFarlane, Ferguson, Allison,
& Kelly in Tampa, Fla.

CHARLES W. Day, III, of Connecticut General
Insurance Corp. in Pittsburgh, was awarded
the designation of Chartered Life Under-
writer (CLU) in September, 1969. He was
also first man to receive the coveted 1970
Keyman title.

 

A. C. HUBBARD, JR., ‘59

 

 

CLASS NOTES 32d

 

 

WARREN B. HUGHES, '63

R. ConraD LEMON, ’59 MICHAEL H. MONIER, ‘62

 

 

MARRIED: WILLIAM E. TscHuUMY, JR., to
Freda Coffing. After military service in Ger-

many, Tschumy has returned to Miami where
he is an architect.

The United Trust Co. of New York has
appointed MICHAEL H. Monier as assistant
vice president. Monier joined U.S. ‘Trust as
a personal financial planner in the special
financial services division.

Dr. Henry D. HoLianp has been appointed
to the faculty of the Medical College of Vir-
ginia in Richmond. He also is in the gen-
eral practice of psychiatry.

Bankers Trust Co. of New York has named
Hucu K. PATON, JR., an assistant vice presi-
dent in the eastern division of the national
banking department. Paton began his career
with Bankers Trust Co. in 1963.

After completing Army duty at the U.S. Mili-
tary Academy, H. ALLEN CurRAN will join
the department of geology faculty at Smith
College in September, 197

1963

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RoBEeRT L. WHEELOCK,
III, a son, Robert Clinton, on July 21.

been elected a
of the

Guy CAMPBELL, JR., has
member of the board of directors
Central Bank in Monroe, La.

Warren B. HucHes has been appointed as-
sociate product manager for the R. T. French
Co. He will be responsible for advertising and
merchandising plans for the company’s line
of instant potato products. Hughes joined
French in 1969, after working for the Max-
well House division of General Foods Corp.

1964

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp S. CRorT, Ill,
a daughter, Francez Gabrey, on May 2.

BORN: Lt. and Mrs. HowaArp W. MARTIN,
r., a son, Brad David, on June 11. Martin is
with the legal office of the commandant of

the 6th Naval District in Charleston, S.C.

Dr. KENNETH E. JANSEN has joined the Eng-
lish department faculty of Western New Eng-
land College in Springfield, Mass. Jansen
formerly served as assistant professor at Ohio
University, specializing in modern, Victorian,
and black literature, as well as comparative

drama.
1965

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK A. STONE, a
daughter, Lynn Dandridge, on April 12.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HULLIHEN WILLIAMS
Moore announce the adoption of a son, Frank
Hullihen, born June 26.

GrorceE M. SANpERS received his doctoral de-
eree in clinical psychology from the George
Washington University in September. A lieu-
tenant in the Navy, he is being transferred
to Yokosuka, Japan for three year’s duty as

clinical psychologist in the Naval Hospital.

1966

MARRIED; BRIAN JOSEPH Curtis to Carolyn
Marie Scaglione in Lexington, Mass. Curtis
England Mer-

>

is associated with the New
chants National Bank of Boston.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. BurRK, a
daughter, Tiffany Lockett, on March 23.
After receiving his M.D. degree from the
University of Virginia in June, 1970, Burk
is now interning at Ochsner Foundation Hos-

pital in New Orleans.

MICHAEL R. HAysLip, an officer in the First
National Bank of Garland, Tex., is also com-
pleting his M.B.A. at Southern Methodist
University.

1967

MARRIED; JAMIE ANDERSON STALNAKER [tO
Linda Simonton on July 11 in Rye, N.Y. Stal-
naker is currently on active duty with the
Navy in Norfolk.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Howard J. BECK, Jr.,
a daughter, Jennifer Corinne, on April 22.
Beck practices law in Martinsville, Va.

1968

Jerrrey M. Watrnscotr has just returned from
Vietnam where he served as officer in charge
of a Navy patrol boat on the Mekong River.
He is presently assigned to the Bureau of
Naval Personnel in Washington, D.C.

Having received his master’s degree from
the Harvard School of Business Administra-
tion, Haro_p C. STOWE has joined the pro-
motion qualification program at North Caro-
lina National Bank in Charlotte, where he
has been assigned to corporate financial
planning.

MARRIED: Ear T. EDwArpns, JR., to Sharon
Rebecca Lindsay on July 26, 1969 in Lex-
ington, Va. Edwards currently is teaching and

coaching at Parry McCluer High School in
Buena Vista, Va.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. LEONARD A. BLAN-
CHARD, a daughter, Sarah Maddin, on Aug.
10. Blanchard, currently teaching English at
Oal Ridge Military Institute in North Caro-
lina, will pursue his master’s degree at Wake
Forest College this fall.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL J. KLINE, a
son, Brooks Elliot, on July 17 in Aspenhof,
Germany. Kline has been studying at the
University of Tubingen under a Fulbright
Scholarship.

Dav T. SHUFFLEBARGER has been appointed
coordinator for media in the campaign to

endorse Virginia’s revised constitution, which
will be voted on Nov. 3.

1970

MARRIED; JAMES JULIUS WINN, JR., to Eliza-
beht Kokernot Lacy on Aug. 15 in Waco,
Tex. Among the groomsmen was ROANE M.
LACY, }i., 60.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. FLoyp BRUCE GARRETT,
III, a son, Floyd Bruce, IV, on July 30. Gar-
rett will be an instructor in the German
department at Washington and Lee this year.

Zals CLASS NOTES

IN MEMORIAM

1899

ANDREW BROADDUS WINFREE, a retired attor-
ney from Portland, Ore., died June 26.

1907

Dr. FRANK MCCUTCHAN, a well-known physi-
cian from Salisbury, N.C., died Aug. 26. At
one time, McCutchan was an instructor in
Latin and Greek at Marion Institute in
Alabama. He received his medical degree
from the University of Virginia in 1920,
and was an intern and resident physician
there until 1925. Between 1g25 and 1927,
McCutchan was the resident house surgeon
at Manhattan Eye, Ear, Nose, & Throat Hos-
pital in New York City. He went to Salis-
bury in 1927, and was a member of the staff
of the Rowan Memorial Hospital since that

7 1908

JoHN M. Brerer, retired president of the
Boston Woven Hose & Rubber Co., died July
8. Bierer was past president of the Norum-
bega Council of Boy Scouts and was on the
executive board of the Boy Scouts of Ameri-
ca. Before joining Boston Woven Hose in
1911, he taught chemistry at MIT. Bierer was
elected vice president of Boston Woven Hose
in 1944, and he became president in 1951.
Bierer was a past chairman of the rubber
division of the American Chemical Society
and a fellow of the India Rubber Institute

of England.
1909

HARVEY ALLEN, for many years a freight traffic
manager for the Missouri-Kansas-Texas R.R.,
died Jan. 4.

1913

EUGENE C. DICKERSON, a prominent Roanoke,
Va. attorney, died in November, 1969.

1914

SAMUEL H. WILLIAMS, 78, prominent Lynch-
burg attorney and civic leader, died Septem-
ber 6. Williams was the first president of the
State Bar Association. He was chief counsel in
1957 for the City of Lynchburg annexation
suit and was called upon in other such cases
in Roanoke and Charlottesville. Williams
served on the Board of Trustees of Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College and was director of
the Miller Home and a member of the board
of directors of the First National Trust and
Savings Bank. During World War II, he serv-
ed as special ‘assistant to the U. S. Attorney
General. He was president of the Lynchburg
Chamber of Commerce in 1942 and a director
of the State Chamber of Commerce, 1944-1947.
Outside of his profession and civic activities,
Williams delved into natural history, wood-
working and antique clocks. A beautiful in-
laid coffee table which he made is now in
the Alumni House.

1918

A long-time mayor of Dublin, Va., and leader
in Pulaski County’s progress during the past

quarter century, FRANK HENDERSON FLANAGAN
died in July. Flanagan had served as mayor
of Dublin for 20 years, deciding not to seek
re-election in 1967. He had been an active
farmer for many years and helped organize
the Pulaski County livestock market. He
served as its president for 12 years.

1920

FRED DUPREE ‘TOWNSEND, an attorney from
Columbia, S.C., died July 5. He was a mem-
ber and former president of the Richland
County Bar, and he was a member of the
South Carolina and American Bar Associa-

192]

JAMEs W. BLANKs, an attorney from Clarks-
ville, Va., died March 12.

WATHEN R. KNEBELKAMP, former president of
Churchill Downs in Louisville, Ky., died July
3. Knebelkamp managed the race track from
April, 1959 until his retirement last Dec.
Knebelkamp began his business career as
traveling secretary with the Louisville Colo-
nels baseball club. He quit baseball for a time
to enter the distilling industry, but in 1935
he returned to the management of the
Colonels, and he remained until the Boston
Red Sox bought the franchise in 1938. He
became regional manager of Schenley distill-
ing plants in 1940, and vice president in 1950.
He resigned when he became president of
Churchill Downs. One of his favorite pro-
jects included the University of Louisville,
where he was a trustee from 1953 to 1964.
Knebelkamp was a member of the Municipal
Athletic Commisison, a member of the Louis-
ville Civil Service Board, a director and presi-
dent of the Louisville Chamber of Commerce,
a member of St. Mary & Elizabeth Hospital,
and a member of the board of Ursuline Col-
lege. He was a member of many associations,
and he was president of the national and
State racing commissions.

OWEN WALKER HiIsLe, JR., retired postmaster
of Richmond, Ky. and a former county at-
torney of Madison County, died July 12.
Hisle was a member of the World War I
Washington and Lee Ambulance Unit and
was awarded the Croix de Guerre medal.

1922

ARTHUR O. DUNN, a former structural engineer
with Pennsylvania Engineering Corp. of New
Castle, Pa., died May 8 in Wilmington, Pa.

Dr. HARoLD W. GOLDBERG, a prominent sur-
geon from Rockville Centre, N.Y., died

March 29.
ye

ROBERT B. STUART, a former captain in the
U.S. Marine Corps and a civil service em-
ployee in Newport News, Va., died Aug. 21,
1969. Stuart served in both World War I and
World War II.

iat

ScoTr Cook SHAw, a former insurance con-
sultant and auditor of Mobile, Ala., died
May 13. For many years, he was associated
with the Insurance Audit and Inspection Co.
of Indianapolis, Ind.

1926

Tuomas B. Burketr died April 16 in Canton,
Miss. He was in the cotton business for many
years.

1928

JAMEs WARWICK HAMILTON died at his home
in Lexington, Va., on July 18. He formerly
owned and operated the Corner Grill. Hamil-
ton was an expert judge and trainer of horses,
and for years was in this business in Dallas,
Tex,

1929

JosepH Louis LOCKETT, JR., a prominent at-
torney from Houston, Tex., died July az.
Lockett was first associated with the law
firm of Andrews, Kelley, Kurth, & Campbell.
In 1947, the firm divided, and Lockett formed
a partnership under the firm name of Kelley,
Lockett, & Lockett. In the late 1950's, Lockett
was nominated general counsel for the Hous-
ton Port Commission, and he served in this
capacity until a few weeks before his death.

JOHN ANDREW JENKINS of Birmingham, Ala., a
former national commander of the VFW,
died in Miami, Fla., on Aug. 17.

1954

GEORGE McIver LApsLrey, formerly with the
Virginia Advisory Legislative Council at the
State capitol in Richmond, died March 8.

1937

WILLIAM C. MONTGOMERY, a former vice presi-
dent of the Texas Pipe Line Co., died in
Houston on Sept. 26, 1969.

153

NORBERT M. GLADDEN of Indianapolis, Ind.,
died May 19.

1944

JouN F. Tatum, owner of the Oxford Insur-
ance Agency and the Mid-Town Develop-
ment Corp. of Oxford, Miss., died June 8. At
the time of his death, he was a director of the
First National Bank and a trustee of the
county hospital. He was a former trustee
of the Oxford city schools.

L995

‘THOMAS BURCHETT, JR., an Ashland, Ky., at-
torney active in civic affairs, died July 8.
Burchett recently had decided to leave his
successful law practice and had been accepted
to enter the United Methodist Theological
Seminary in September, 1970. He was a for-
mer commissioner of the Eastern District of
Kentucky, U.S. Federal Court.

1954

Dwicnt L. Stocker, JR., died in Belgium on
Jan. 18.

1965

Scott MITCHELL VERNER, a member of Pi
Kappa Alpha fraternity while at Washington
and Lee, was killed in action in Vietnam in
August, 1969. He was a native of Pittsburgh,
Pa.

 

 

gn oii? “as

 

 

 

 

 

 

It is the historian’s work at its very
best, an accurate record of the
struggles of a great university, show-
ing how far the beginnings, how diffi-
cult the road, how worthy the pro-

duct. —Richmond News-Leader

it is a zood history. .. . Dr. Cren-
shaw writes well about an institution
for which he obviously has a deep
affection.

—Chattanooga News-Free Press

No similar efforts which come to
mind, including Morison on Har-
vard, certain centennial and bicen-
tennial products, and more modern
studies, surpass its merits as the story
of an educational institution.

—Petersburg Progress-Index

This book has deep meaning
for everyone who has shared the
Washington and Lee experience.

For all, it is an important
record of the development of one
of the nation’s great institutions.

Be sure to obtain a first edition copy.

Fill in and mail the attached

order form today.

THE RISE AND GROWTH
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

by Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw
Professor of History

Published by Random House,
New York

Price: $10.00

This book may have come as a bless-
ing to revive the great spirit of
Washington and Lee. There has never
been more to be proud of on the Lex-
ington campus—the book makes this

clear. —Charleston News and Courier

The account is concise, yet rich in de-
tail, with frequent touches of subtle
humor. The excellence of this
volume fully justifies the enthusiasm
with which it has already been re-

ceived. —Lexington News-Gazette

A pleasing, witty style and excellent
use of quotations enliven the book;
descriptions of student activities and
vignettes of important persons are
particularly interesting.

—The Journal of Southern History

The history of the college is intricately
related to the history of the country
itself, its prosperity, wars, depressions,
changes in attitudes and in manners.
Consequently, General Lee’s College
is a volume that will interest both
friends of the college and those read-
ers who are interested in Southern
and American history.

—Richmond Times-Dispatch

Alumni of Washington and Lee will
appreciate General Lee's College
most. It will give pleasure and fur-
nish important insights to all who
appreciate the heritage of our state,
region, and nation as well as the es-
sential role of higher education in
our efforts to cope with this time of

turmoil. —Roanoke Times

ORDER FORM

THE BOOKSTORE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24430

Please send me

copy(ies) of General Lee’s College by Dr. Ollinger

Crenshaw, at $10.00 each. (Include 75 cents handling charges for each copy

purchased).

 

Name

 

Address

 

Payment of $

is enclosed.

Zip Code

WASHINGTON & LEE ALUMNUS

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

 

