 

FEBRUARY 1970

>

LUMNU

A

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNUS

_ VOLUME 45 _ NUMBER 1 FEBRUARY 1970

eer
1. Ca New: - _ _
2, The Mater on Lo Parents
14. Athletics - _

COVER |

Senior forward Mel Cartwright is a player that comes _

along once in a great while. At once, he is a good out-
side shot, an excellent rebounder, but his best forte is
_his inside drive along the baseline after a couple of quick —

__ head feints here and there before he starts moving, like

7 the cover photograph shows against a beaten Navy de- |
_ fender. For the story on Cartwright and his Washington —
and Lee basketball teammates, and what the new “thing”

is in Doremus Gymnasium this year, see page 14.

EDITOR: William C. Washburn, ’40_
MANAGING EDITOR: Romulus T. Weatherman

ASSOCIATE EDITOR AND PHOTOGRAPHER: __

_A. Michael Philipps, 64
EDITORIAL ASSISTANT: Mrs. Joyce Carter

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC::
Fred Bartenstein, Jr., ‘41, President

John M. Jones, III, ’37, Vice-President
William C. Washburn, ’40, Secretary

Charles F. Clarke, Jr., 38, Treasurer

BOARD OF DIRECTORS: Fred Bartenstein, Jr., ‘41;
Upton Beall, ’51; Joe F. Bear, ’33; Charles F. Clarke, Jr.,
’38; A. Christian Compton, 50; Warren H. Edwards, 39;
John M. Jones, III, ’37; S. L. Kopald, Jr., “43; Edward
H. Ould, 29; Emil L. Rassman, ’41; Beauregard A.
Redmond, ’55: Richard H. Turrell, ’49.

Published in February, April, June, August, October, and
December by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms
3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage paid at
Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing privileges
at Roanoke, Virginia 24001. |

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP as required by Act of Con-
gress of Aug. 24, 1912, as amended by the Acts of March 3,

1933, July 2, 1946 and June 11, 1960: The Washington and Lee —
Alumnus is owned by Washington and Lee University Alumni, ©
Inc., and is entered as second class matter at the Post
Office in Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing |
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001. William C. Washburn |

is editor and business manager. His address is Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450. There are no
bond, mortgage, or other security holders. The average num-

ber of copies of each issue during the 12 preceding months

was 12,

LIBRARY OF

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, YA.

- Nobody likes to be criticized except editors, the old
_ saying goes. Not that we are a masochistic lot, but we al-

ways want to find out how we are measuring up, from

fellow editors across the board to our readers. We want
to know whether we are presenting copy in a pleasing

manner or not; we want to know whether our design is
attractive; we want to know if we are relevant; and we

even want to know whether we are excluding something.

This issue of the Alumnus marks an anniversary of

sort, for it was exactly a year ago that the magazine's for-

mat and publication frequency (from four up to six
__ issues) were changed. During the past 12 months, we have
attempted to include more campus news, offer more fea-
ture articles, provide more up-to-date class notes, all
__-within the framework of a consistent overall design that
has undergone only minor changes (such as reduction or
enlargement of type size, placement of photographs, and
a switch of paper stock to assure better photographic re-

_ A year ago, too, you began receiving a new quarterly

magazine, WeL: The Magazine of Washington and Lee

University, a companion of the Alumnus and a magazine
of general interest not only to alumni but also to the
other constituencies of the University. In it, we have
sought to originate in-depth themes and articles that
would not lend themselves to space, time, and design
restrictions that are so necessary to the Alumnus. To
date, WL has reported on the inauguration of Presi-
dent Huntley, admissions, athletics, and, most recently,
the Brock Report on campus unrest. We would like to
think WéL, already favorably received, has an even
brighter future.

At this period in the University’s pepped up publica-
tions program, now that we have reached a point where
we can reasonably reflect upon our beginnings, we might
benefit from your comments, good and/or bad. We would
like to know, among other things, the kind of articles you~
enjoy reading most, least, or not at all in either magazine.
Is there a subject that hasn’t been covered yet? Are you
getting your magazines on time? Do you like the idea of
two magazines? :

These are all important questions to us, and your
answers could help in determining the content of both
magazines. We do not want this to be simply a one-way
street; we want, instead, to open up the channels of com-
munication, and the only way this is possible is to hear
from you.

We encourage your letters.

4

A Decade of Progress

For privately-supported Washington
and Lee University, the decade of the
1960s was a time of change and challenge.

Increasingly, the future of indepen-
dent, non-state-supported colleges and
universities such as the University was
called into question during the decade.
Washington and Lee responded to the
challenge with some far-reaching changes
that will have implications for the 1970s.
For example:

—A new curriculum stressing indepen-
dent study was adopted by the faculty in
May, 1969 to go into effect in September,
1970.

—From the 1960-61 academic year to
1968-69, the average compensation of full
professors was increased from a level of
$11,152 to $19,293. During that same per-
iod, the compensation of associate pro-
fessors rose from $8,795 a year to an aver-
age of $13,759, while the average compen-
sation of assistant professors increased
from $7,274 to $12,050, and that of in-
structors climbed from $5,754 to $9,771.
Near decade’s end, Washington and Lee
ranked 64th out of more than 1,000 of
the nation’s colleges and universities in
average faculty compensation, according
to figures of the American Association of
University Professors.

—Washington and Lee’s Board of
Trustees adopted in 1969 a sweeping self-
reorganization, providing for the elimina-
tion of life memberships on the self-per-
petuating board, election every two years
of one Trustee nominated by alumni, an
increase in board size from 16 to 19 mem-
bers, and mandatory retirement at age
70,

Washington and Lee students, tra-
ditionally accorded considerable self-gov-
ernance under the renowned student
Honor System, gained new responsibilities
in the social sphere. Students were called
upon to draft their own regulations for
dormitory and fraternity social hours, in-
cluding conditions for visits by women
guests—subject to approval by a University
committee.

—While the student body increased
from 1,200 to 1,400, in approximate terms,
during the decade, the size of the faculty
was increased from 86 in 1960 to 125 in
1969.

—The academic attrition rate dropped.
The graduating class of 1960 constituted
only 48 per cent of the freshmen four
years earlier, while the graduating class

ep iter © see

CAMPUS <1

 

™~

Women on campus in the 1970s? The students seem to want coeducation now,

but they'll have to wait for committee report.

of 1969 was 69 per cent of the original
enrollment.

—Financial support increased during
the decade. In 1960-61, the University re-
ceived $47,075 from 1,522 alumni donors;
in 1968-69, Washington and Lee received
$301,360 from 4,191 alumni. The market
value of Washington and Lee’s endow-
ment increased from $16.2 million in
1960-61 to $20.4 million in 1968-69.

The 1960s also brought physical
changes and upgrading of academic offer-
ings to the 221-year-old University. In
1962, a restoration of historic Lee Chapel,
originally built during the 1865-70 presi-
dency of Robert E. Lee, was accomplished
through a $370,000 grant from the Ford
Motor Co. Fund of Dearborn, Mich. That

same year marked the erection of a $1.5
million building for the physics and bio-
logy departments, and renovation of an
existing building for geology and chemis-
try.

In 1964, the Department of Journal-
ism and Communications moved into a re-
novated Reid Hall, and in February,
1967, the department’s own FM. = radio
station—WLUR-FM—went on the air,
operated by students. In 1965, the Uni-
versity remodeled a two-story residence
on Letcher Ave. to serve as the Alumni
House. In 1962, a new four-story dorm
was opened for 91 students.

Strides forward in the science instruc-
tional program were made with the assis-
tance of a $250,000 grant from the Alfred

 

 

coeducation and “optin
tiny wing to 0 gather fac

of higher
and federal

 

 

 

financial aid program, we also are making
strides toward improving the social and
economic diversity of the student body.
Also, the size of our admissions staff has
been increased to permit a broadened
program of high school visitations.”

The University this year is awarding
more than $500,000 in financial aid to
its student body, more than three times
the amount awarded 10 years ago.

The Lottery and ROTC

The nation’s new lottery system has
decreased the uncertainty of young men
about when and if they will be subject to
the draft, but it has temporarily increased
speculation about the future of the Re-
serve Officer’s Training Corps (ROTC).

In response to questions, Lt. Col. Jack
W. Morris, head of the military science
department at Washington and Lee, said
he expects “no drastic changes in the pro-
gram here.”

Part of the speculation centers around
this question: will current ROTC en-
rollees whose birth dates were drawn to-
ward the second half of the lottery—the
200s and 300s—seek to withdraw from the
program? On the other hand, will men
who drew low numbers and who were not
enrolled in ROTC seek to join the pro-
gram as an alternative to being drafted?

“It is too early to say what might
happen,” Col. Morris commented. ‘‘Factu-

ok arr ae?
ee ae ) 6

% me j i a ” as ll er? hg om *

ally, not one of the 211 men currently en-
rolled in ROTC at Washington and Lee
has come to me and said that he will de-
finitely drop the program. This does not
mean there won’t be any leaving. On the
other hand, some students have come to
us to express interest in enrolling.”

It indicates there possibly will be
“some shifting” in the ROTC enroll-
ment, but Col. Morris envisions the pro-
gram remaining a sound and viable one.

Col. Morris emphasized that the mili-
tary department encourages students to
complete ROTC, not because of their vul-
nerability to the draft, but because of the
valuable leadership training the subject
provides.

The military science program at Wash-
ington and Lee is a voluntary four-year
program consisting of a two-year basic
course, normally taken in the freshman
and sophomore years, and a two-year ad-
vanced course, normally taken in the
junior and senior years. Academic credit
for ROTC is given by the University.

Only students who demonstrate a po-
tential for becoming officers are selected
for the advanced training. Upon entering
that level, students enlist in the Army Re-
serve, sign a contract with the Department
of the Army, and are paid $50 a month
during the school year.

After being commissioned at gradua-
tion, the student serves up to two years of
active duty as an officer. Deferments are

 
     

New draft lottery may mean making war no more for some.

CAMPUS -3

granted for graduate degree schooling.

Col. Morris said it is possible for stu-
dents to compress the basic and advanced
courses into a two-year program. However,
the department has discouraged students
from completing ROTC in two years be-
cause of the amount of study time that
would be required. Top priority for two-
year completion programs has been given
to students who have transferred to Wash-
ington and Lee from colleges which do
not offer ROTC programs.

All You Need Is Love

Could it be that the supporters of co-
education have found an irresistible argu-
ment?

Namely, Washington and Lee students
are not falling in love enough. To be pre-
cise, they are falling in love at 11.2 per-
centage points below the national level
for four-year colleges.

‘The figures are those of the American
Council on Education, which has been
conducting for some years extensive sur-
veys on campuses to define the environ-
ment and to determine what shapes it.
Freshmen fill out detailed questionnaires
on their habits and preferences, and later
in their college careers some of them get
follow-up questionnaires.

Two years ago, 150 Washington and
Lee men filled out one of those follow-up
forms, giving facts and opinions about
the college environment in some 33 cate-
gories. The data was released by the
Council this month. oe

Those reporting “I fell in love”
amounted to 14.6 per cent of the re-
spondents. Nationally, 25.8 per cent of
students responding from four-year col-
leges reported they had fallen in love.

Interpreting the significance of this
data, Council researchers said colleges
with high scores in this category tend to
be places where students engage in dat-
ing of “an informal or casual type (coke,
coffee, or study dates),” and that colleges
with low scores are those where students
frequently complain about not having
enough dates. Colleges for men, in par-
ticular, tend to fall into the latter cate-
gory, the Council said.

The University currently has coeduca-
tion under study by a committee of stu-
dents, faculty members, and administra-
tors. In addition, the faculty has approved
a student exchange program to begin next
fall involving four women’s colleges and
three other men’s colleges. If the Board

 

 

4 CAMPUS

of Trustees approves the program, it will
mark the first time since World War II
that women have sought Washington and
Lee degrees.

The American Council on Education
survey had some favorable things to re-
port about the University’s classroom at-
mosphere.

Only four per cent of the Washington
and Lee students thought that they were
treated “more like numbers in a book”
than human beings, compared with 21 per
cent of students at all four-year colleges,
and 28 per cent of students at all types of
higher education institutions. More than
90 per cent of the University’s students
felt that most of their classmates are of a
high caliber academically, compared with
49.8 per cent of students at all four-year
colleges. Agreeing that competition for
high grades at Washington and Lee is
“keen” were 62 per cent of the respon-
dents, while nationally only 46.6 per cent
of the four-year college students thought
that competition was keen.

Reflecting the University’s non-subsi-
dized approach to athletics, only 2.4 per
cent of Washington and Lee respondents
felt that athletics are over-emphasized,
compared with 9.1 per cent of four-year
college students nationally.

Some of the other data for the Univer-
sity and four-year colleges as a whole
were:

@ Ihe instructor encourages a lot of
class discussion—67.5 per cent of Wash-
ington and Lee students, and 61.8 per
cent nationally said yes.

@ The instructor knew me by name—
86.3 per cent of Washington and Lee stu-
dents, 76.3 per cent of students nationally
said yes.

@ I asked questions in class frequently
—43.4 per cent of Washington and Lee
students, 33.8 per cent of students na-
tionally said yes.

@ I drank beer frequently—52.3 per
cent of Washington and Lee students,
21.7 per cent of all four-year students
said yes.

@ I engaged in a demonstration against
an administrative policy of the college oc-
casionally or frequently—6.2 per cent of
Washington and Lee students, 17.2 per
cent of four-year students nationally said
yes.

@ I was a member of a college athletic
team—28.7 per cent of Washington and
Lee students, 11.4 per cent of students
nationally said yes.

Finding their instructors ‘“‘enthusiastic”

were 83.1 per cent of Washington and
Lee respondents, 74 per cent of students
nationally.

And even though the University’s
men weren’t falling in love very much,
83 per cent of them found the atmosphere
of the college to be “‘social’—no doubt
with the help of neighboring colleges for
women.

Hickman Co-Authors Work

A biology professor has written a fish
story.

In this case, however, it’s not a story
of the one that got away. Instead, Dr.
Cleveland P. Hickman Jr. of Washington
and Lee and Dr. Benjamin F. Trump of
Duke University have jointly made the
first attempt ever to assemble all avail-
able information concerning structure and
function of the fish kidney.

Medical physiologists have long been
interested in the fish kidney, which is re-
markably advanced, Dr. Hickman noted,
and certain kinds of research are more
readily accomplished with fish than with
mammals, including man. Fish kidneys
have frequently been used as model sys-
tems for studying abnormal kidney func-
tion following injury or disease.

The appearance of the research is es-
pecially timely because of the increased
interest by biologists in the fish kidney’s
sensitivity to the various industrial pollut-
ants which are being added to the nation’s
streams and lakes. }

The work of Drs. Hickman and ‘Trump
appears as the second chapter of a multi-
author, multi-volume treatise entitled
Fish Physiology, which is being published
by Academic Press of New York.

Dr. Hickman joined the Washington
and Lee faculty in 1967. A native of In-
diana, he received his A.B. degree from
DePauw University, his M.Sc. degree from
the University of New Hampshire, and
his Ph.D. from the University of British
Columbia. He has held several teaching
and research fellowships, and in 1965-66
he worked at the Duke University Marine
Laboratory at Beaufort, N.C.

Dr. Trump is a pathology professor
at the Duke University Medical Center.

Kumpuris Heads PAC

Dr. Frank Kumpuris of Little Rock,
Ark. has been elected chairman of the
Parents’ Advisory Council of Washington
and Lee for the 1970-71 academic year.

The election of Dr. Kumpuris took
place as part of the 15th annual Parents’
Weekend activities at the University this
past fall. More than 1,200 parents and
guests attended.

Dr. FRANK KUMPURIS

Dr. Kumpuris is the father of two sons
at Washington and Lee—senior Dean and
junior Drew, both pre-med majors. ‘They
are members of the varsity football team,
and are active in other phases of student
life.

Dr. Kumpuris holds the B.S. and M.D.
degrees from ‘Tulane University.

The chairman of the Council for the
1969-70 year is Richard T. Scruggs, presi-
dent of Vulcan Metal Products of Bir-
mingham, Ala. Scruggs is the father of
senior Richard T. Scruggs Jr.

Riegel Urges Criticism

A paper by a Washington and Lee
professor urging the world’s journalists to
be more questioning and critical of their
nation’s policies and institutions has been
translated into a Spanish language booklet
in Madrid.

The paper was written by Prof. O. W.
Riegel, retired head of the Department
of Journalism and Communications.

Riegel originally delivered the paper
last year at a symposium on “Mass Media
and International Understanding” held
at Ljubljana, Yugoslavia. The proceedings
of the conference were subsequently pub-
lished this year by the Department of
Journalism at the School of Sociology,

 

a

NE NY ee ray

tng

 

ata ON a At

apices epee 2 alii eligi lpm

Political Science, and Journalism in Ljub-
ljana. :

In the paper, entitled “Nationalism
and Communications,” Riegel makes re-
ference to the generally subordinate,
parochial, and reinforcing role of the
world’s public media.

“They are in every country the sup-
porters and servants of the national state;
not its adversaries. They follow rather
than lead. They did not invent the na-
tional state system. They do not explain
it or challenge it. Day after day they pre-
sent a simplistic, ethnocentric image of
the world in which ‘we’ are the deserving
center. ‘The nation’s idiosyncratic tradi-
tions and values are the standards by
which the image of the world is presented
and judged,” Riegel has written.

“I grant exceptions, although these
exceptions frequently turn out to be,
upon close inspection, more apparent
than real. A general principle is that the
larger the nation’s power, and the more
substantial the investments of the public
media, the more solicitous the public
media will be to preserve national institu-
tions, defend national policies, support
‘law and order’ and oppose change (‘rock-
ing the boat’). The greater the magnitude
of power and the larger the population,
the more dependent governments are
upon psychological manipulation to as-
sure unity and order, and the more de-
pendent governments are upon the public
media to channel attention and win a
consensus of consent.”

In conclusion, Riegel has written: “I
am asking professional journalists to rec-
ognize their own professional principles.
I call upon journalists to honor these
principles in deed as well as in rhetoric by
telling the truth, and not only part of the
truth but all of the truth.

“Journalists may not be able to initi-
ate, change, or control the actions of gov-
ernment and the consequences of such ac-
tions, but they have a professional duty
to report them. Men do not understand
their own environment and are helpless
to control it when the public media fail
to describe and illuminate the mechan-
isms of political power and the inner self-
destructive compulsions of the national
power system.”

The Silver Screen

Student film-making at Washington
and Lee is the topic of another article by
Professor Riegel, this one in the winter

issue of Film Comment magazine, a quar-
terly published in Brookline, Mass.

“Our limited purpose,’’ he wrote, “is
to introduce students to the medium and
to show them, through their own experi-
ments, the meaning of thinking visually
and kinesthetically.”

Surprisingly, he observed, many of the
films made by young people are sentimen-
tal. Favorite themes include nostalgia, un-
requited love, the despair of youth, and
spiritual uneasiness arising from “‘a clash
between behavior and inherited social
and family ethical standards and values.”

Because of what he sees as a general
conservatism of the campus and students
at Washington and Lee, Riegel wrote that
less boldness, irreverence, and radicalism
has appeared in student film expression
than might be expected. Wit and comic
spirit, he added, are the greatest lack in
the film production of the students, whose
films turn out to be “terribly earnest.”

Despite limitations of equipment and
other weaknesses, however, the student
films are “on the whole, astonishingly
successful,”” Riegel wrote. The film me-
dium, he said, has the power, through the
selection and mounting of images, “of
mysteriously communicating the special,
intimate recognitions of a particular age
and social group.”

Professor Riegel introduced motion
picture aesthetics and criticism at Wash-
ington and Lee in the 1930s, production
courses in 1947, and today his duties in-
clude teaching film history and supervis-
ing student film-making.

Asian Course Added

Washington and Lee, through its De-
partment of Economics, will offer a new
course entitled “Issues in Asian Economic
Development” during the second semester
of the 1969-70 academic year and the first
semester of the 1970-71 academic session.

Dr. Edward C. Atwood Jr., dean of the
School of Commerce, Economics, and Poli-
tics, announced plans for the new offering.

The University has received a grant
from the College Science Improvement
Program of the National Science Founda-
tion to develop studies in non-Western
cultures, with special emphasis on the na-
tions of Southeast Asia, Dean Atwood
said.

The course will cover such topics as:
cultural and institutional features, popu-
lation growth and population policies,
labor conditions, economic development,

CAMPUS <5

and the social and cultural environment
of the leading Asian nations.

Plans are to enrich the course with
visiting lecturers in Asian literature, phil-
osophy, art and politics, Dean Atwood
added.

The course will be conducted by Dr.
Sherwood Fine, who will be visiting pro-
fessor of economics for a year, beginning
with the second semester of 1969-70.

Dr. Fine holds the Ph.D. degree from
Columbia University. He has held such
positions as: economist for the U.S. ‘Treas-
ury; Director of Economics and Planning
for the Supreme Command for the Allied
Powers in ‘Tokyo; Director, Office of
Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam,
for the Agency for International Develop-
ment of the Department of State; and Di-
rector of the Office of Indonesian Affairs,
AID, Department of State.

A Man With True Grit

‘To say that Washington and Lee’s ar-
tist-in-residence is a man of determination
and firm resolve would be an understate-
ment. How many persons would walk
1,000 miles to enroll in a college? Professor
I-Hsiung Ju did.

Ju not only walked the mileage from
his native Kiangyin, Kiangsu, China to
enroll on a national scholarship in 1942
at the University of Amoy in Changting,
he did so after being wounded in service
in the Chinese Army.

Did he arrive in time for registration?
“Yes,” he chuckled, “one year late.” Ju’s
long walk took a year’s time, and he ar-
rived weak and gaunt. But he soon re-
gained strength at the university, where
he found time for painting, theater, the
writer’s club, poetry, and other artistic
pursuits.

Ju’s art has received acclaim in many
parts of the world. Exhibitions of his
work have appeared in China, in the
Philippines, where he resided for 20 years
before moving to America in 1968, and in
Japan, Hong Kong, Canada, and the U:S.
His students and admirers in this country
put on Ju exhibitions before the artist
himself came to America. For example,
his work was featured in Richmond, Va.
in 1964.

Ju’s philosophy of art reflects the same
sense of perfection and drive that carried
him to college. A prize winner in graphic
art, oil painting, and Nansoga works in
various countries, he is considered to be
one of the few painters who can blend two

POLLED LILI, BS PPPOE AAA SLID DPI L III POPOL ALE ALLOA A

©. CAMPUS

worlds of styles, technique, and idiom to
produce an appealing picture.

He summarizes his point of view this
way: “A Chinese artist is not only a
painter. He is also a poet and a philoso-
pher. For his real aim is to depict a whole
sweep, a continuity of life, which would
have the same meaning for his children
as for himself.”

Professor Ju sketches, collects, and
after studying the subject thoroughly,
transfers his impression of the subject on
rice paper with traditional technique,
employing the centuries-old ink stick
which is freshly ground in water for each
painting session.

\

The black ink is mixed with vegetable
dyes directly on the brush. The shadings
of color depend on the order the colors
are picked by the brush. One critic has
noted: “Spontaneity of his strokes and
colors is achieved through hard work,
just as is the achievement of any master
in Chinese art history, but Ju’s composi-
tions and creative ideas are based on
strictly modern theories.”

Before coming to Washington and Lee
this year, Ju was a visiting scholar-in-
residence at four New England state uni-
versities under a cooperative program, in-
cluding the Universities of Vermont,
Maine, New Hampshire, and Connecticut.

 

Artist I-Hsiung Ju—he walked 1,000 miles to college.

Ju, 46, received the A.B. degree at the
University of Amoy, and the Master of
Arts at the University of Santo Tomas
at Manila, Philippines. He served as vice
president and director of the Art As-
sociation of the Philippines. His positions
have included: honorary curator of
Chinese art for the Philippine National
Museum; professor of fine arts at the
University of the East, Manila; and pro-
fessor-lecturer at the Graduate School of
the University of Santo ‘Tomas.

His talents are many and varied. He is
not only a well-known artist, he has also
been a profesor of literature, a playwright,
and drama director.

The intricate process of Chinese paint-
ing requires many years to master. De-
voted students, Professor Ju has noted,
must learn slowly but surely, learning the
masters and memorizing their work, tra-
veling and observing for themselves the
trees, mountains, and rivers, and learn-
ing to read paintings of other persons.

Ju said he has found his Washington
and Lee art students to be “wonderful
students who are very eager to learn.” ‘The
American students, he added, are initially
‘not very concrete or practical, but they
have a lot of imagination.”

Broadus To Head Associates

A Knoxville, Tenn. businessman has
been appointed chairman of the Robert
E. Lee Associates by the University’s
Board of ‘Trustees.

Thomas H. Broadus, owner of Tho-
mas Broadus & Co., a general insurance
agency, succeeds David D. Johnson, a
Pittsburgh, Pa. industrialist, who has serv-
ed during the past year as the first chair-
man of the Associates.

The Robert E. Lee Associates organi-
zation is composed of persons whose sup-
port of Washington and Lee has been ex-
ceptionally generous. There are currently
200 members.

The Associates program was initiated
in 1968 by the Trustees to recognize and
honor the University’s most loyal bene-
factors.

President Robert E. R. Huntley noted
that: “The Robert E. Lee Associates not
only provide vital financial help, but also
give a large measure of leadership and
counsel to our development program. It
is good to know that a person of Mr.
Broadus’ ability will be carrying on the
work led so ably during the Associates’
first year by Mr. Johnson.”

b.

Broadus is a 1925 graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee, and he received his
M.B.A. from Harvard University in 1931.
He is married and the father of two
sons, both of whom are also alumni—
Thomas H. Broadus Jr., Class of 759, and
Arthur E. Broadus, Class of ’64. A brother,
Joseph C. Broadus, a senior vice president
of Chase Manhatten Bank in New York,
is a 1930 graduate of the University.

It Pays To Argue

Washington and Lee’s debate team
participated in a record-number 13 tour-
naments during the fall season—winning
Il trophies, also a record for the pre-
Christmas period.

Junior Kevin Baker from Lynchburg,
a team co-captain and a member of the
Executive Committee, was chosen top
speaker out of 104 debaters at the La-
Salle College Tournament in Philadel-
phia, and junior Tim Wright from Hous-
ton, the other co-captain and a dorm
counselor, was awarded the top speaker’s
trophy out of 140 entries at the Ohio
State ‘Tourney. Baker and Wright as a
team won awards at both Ohio State and
Wake Forest’s Dixie Classic.

Outstanding freshman debaters dur-
ing the fall included Bob Bruyere of
Houston, who was third best speaker at
LaSalle, and Larry Evans of Houston and
Andy Bradshaw of Williamsburg, who fin-
ished among the top teams at the Wake
Forest Novice ‘Tournament.

And during the last tourney before
the Christmas holidays, Kenny Murov of
Shreveport and John Reynolds of Houston
won three trophies at Madison College—
putting Washington and Lee over the
100 mark in the number of awards won
over a period of less than 10 years.

Following a two-month break, the de-
bate season resumed with the William
and Mary Tournament over the Jan. 30-
31 Fancy Dress Weekend, and trips on
consecutive weekends to Northwestern,
Annapolis, Dartmouth, and Pennsylvania.

Fortune Family Gifts

Two gifts from a Roanoke family
totaling $56,000 have been announced by
the University.

‘They were made in memory of Robert
Morrow Fortune, a 1967 graduate of
Washington and Lee with a degree in
Commerce and Administration. Fortune
died March 11, 1969 when his Navy F-4B

Phantom jet went down in the Gulf of

Mexico during tactical maneuvers.

His parents, Mr. and Mrs. William B.
Fortune, presented the gifts.

A $51,000 sum will go toward the fi-
nancing of a new facility for the School
of Commerce, Economics, and Politics.

A $5,000 total will go to Pi Kappa
Alpha fraternity, of which Fortune was
a member, to be used to establish a schol-
arship that will be awarded each year to
the rising Pi Kappa Alpha sophomore
who has compiled the best academic rec-
ord in his freshman year and requires the
financial assistance to attend Washington
and Lee.

In announcing the gift, President
Robert E. R. Huntley remarked: “Wash-
ington and Lee’s past tradition and future
aspiration is to have among its students
and graduates men who, like Robert For-
tune, have that rare combination of good
intelligence, balanced perspective, and
fine character. We are grateful for these
important gifts which will provide boosts
toward the continued development of the
University.”

After graduation, Fortune had ex-
pressed much interest in contributing to-
ward the development of the School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics. It

‘was because of evidence of their son’s wish

that Mr. and Mrs. Fortune decided to
make the contribution to Washington
and Lee.

The Daily Sustenance

The opening lines of the Washington
and Lee fight song, the “Swing,” begin:
“When Washington and Lee men fall in
Me.

It doesn’t refer to the chow line, but
it well might.

Just for snacks, the University’s 1,400
students—aided by some faculty and ad-
ministration members—consume 180 hot
dogs, 80 hamburgers, and 40 cheesebur-
gers a day.

Approximately 100 chicken salad sand-
wiches go over the counter, along with
almost that many egg salad sandwiches.

Add to the daily menu 20 pounds of
french fries, 100 cakes, five dozen Eng-
lish muffins, assorted things such as crack-
ers and potato chips, and specialty sand-
wiches such as roast beef and corned beef.

All this is washed down with 1,000
sodas, 500 milkshakes, about 10 gallons of
milk, nine gallons of orange juice, and
450 cups of coffee. (It’s one of the coun-

CAMPUS <7

try’s few remaining five-cent cups of
coffee.)

‘Those quantities of food and drink
are dispensed daily at the Snackbar of
the University Supply Store. The figures
would be astronomical, as well as gast-
ronomical, if they included the full-fledged
meals taken at Evans Dining Hall, the 18
fraternity houses, apartments, and private
dining establishments in or near Lexing-
ton.

“The hot dogs start selling first thing
in the morning,” says Mrs. Famie Smoth-
ers. During her 17 years of service in
Washington and Lee snack shops, Mrs.
Smothers has learned to take such exotic
student dining habits as the 7:30 a.m. hot
dog breakfast for granted.

Mrs. Smothers has the busy job of
keeping the Snackbar supplied with
enough food to feed the hungry between-
class hordes.

At another location on campus, short-
order sandwiches, along with beer, are
being served for the first time this semes-
ter. ‘he new facility is the tavern of the
University Center, which opened this fall.

Political and social interests of college
students may fluctuate, but “no matter
what college you go to, you’re going to
find plenty of hungry students,” quipped
James E. Toler, manager of the Univer-
sity Supply Store.

Toler, a native of Hopewell, was for
six years the manager of a book store and
snackbar at Ferrum Junior College. He
came to Washington and Lee last summer
from a position as assistant manager of
the Salem-Roanoke Valley Civic Center
in Roanoke.

A Learning Experience

It was a special Christmas for some
30 children enrolled in Rockbridge
County’s Central Elementary School this
past holiday season.

Special in the sense that for the young-
sters who have various learning handi-
caps—mental or physical—the men of
Lambda Chi Alpha and Sigma Alpha
Epsilon fraternities joined in hosting a
Christmas party for the children, nand-
ing out presents, cookies, and punch.

The fraternity men, whose ages range
from 18 to 21, mingled with the pupils,
ages nine to 16, like ebullient parents,
and there was even a Santa Claus, played
by Lambda Chi sophomore Jim Gilliam
from Fayetteville, N.C.

Assisting in the party was the Univer-

3; CAMPUS

sity Federation of Concern, which chipped
in money to buy each of the 31 young-
sters a present, and to decorate the room
in bright Christmas trimmings. Money
for the refreshments came from the trea-
suries of the two fraternities.

Some of the Washington and Lee stu-
dents were no strangers to the children.
Lambda Chi Alpha has sort of adopted
the class taught by Mrs. Julia Kozak, wife
of geology professor Dr. Sam Kozak.

They gave the pupils a Holloween
party. They have taken the youngsters on
a walking trip to the library. And plans
are being made for an Easter egg party.
Last spring, the fraternity men escorted
the children on field trips to a bank, the
post office, and to the police station.
There was also an Easter party.

It all began two years ago when Mrs.
Beverly Bigham, wife of a Lambda Chi,
was teaching a special education class.
Her husband, Bob, was graduated last
June, but the fraternity’s fondness for the
class continued.

“Our work with the children began
with the thought that it would be our
community service project for the semes-
ter or year,” comments vice president
John McCardell, a junior from Hagers-
town, Md. “But we really became attached
to the children, and we felt it important
that we continue.”

“It means so much for these children
to have contact with adult males,” says
Mrs. Kozak. “Some of them come from
deprived backgrounds, and they can profit
immeasurably from the extra help and
love.”

“We are highly pleased and gratified
at the interest of these Washington and
Lee students,” states Charles D. Tolley,
principal of Central Elementary. “We all
grow by the contacts we make, and I be-
lieve this extra contact for the children
is helping. A little extra help goes a long
way.”

While Tolley believes the experience
has been enriching for the pupils, the
Washington and Lee students believe it
has been an important part of their edu-
cation.

“A real education, in the full sense of
the word, includes more than the dust-
covered textbook learning we get every
day,” says senior Alan Marian from Hunt-
ingdon Valley, Pa. “It also includes the
essential contacts we make living in a
social community such as Lexington. Any
good education must include both theo-
retical and practical parts. I believe our

work with the children has been a very
valuable experience for us all, and from
their ‘adoption’ of us, I believe the chil-
dren have benefited as much as we have.”

Almost All The Way

The moot court team from Washing-
ton and Lee’s School of Law defeated the
University of Indiana in the first round
of the National Moot Court Competition
in New York in mid-December, before
being eliminated in the second round by
New York University.

Washington and Lee earned the right
to be in the national finals by winning a
four-state regional tournament in Novem-
ber in which law schools from nine col-
leges and universities participated in Nor-
folk. It marked the third time in the last
four years that the University had won the
regional honors.

Washington and Lee’s team was cap-
tained by Beverly C. Read of Lexington.
The others arguing the legal case were
H. William Walker Jr. of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and Robin P. Hartmann of Vir-
ginia Beach. Charles C. Lewis of Martins-
ville, Va., the alternate member, did
much of the work of preparing the legal
brief. Joseph E. Ulrich, assistant profes-
sor of law, served as team adviser.

i

This year’s moot court question cen-
tered around the problem of student un-
rest in colleges. The university’s team pre-
pared a brief arguing that fictitious ‘“Gan-
try University” was not on solid legal
ground in expelling students for conduct-
ing a peaceful demonstration. In addi-
tion, team members prepared themselves
to argue both sides of the case when in
moot court competition.

Moot court competition, which is
based on arguing legal issues, is the law
school equivalent of intercollegiate de-
bate.

SBA Elects Read

Beverly C. Read of Lexington has been
elected president of the Student Bar As-
sociation of the University’s School of
Law for the second semester of the 1969-
70 academic session.

The SBA supervises the student gov-
ernment of the Law School, regulates stu-
dent activity, sponsors annual mock trials,
and works closely with legal fraternities.

Other officers recently elected for the
second semester were: vice president—
Frank G. Selbe III of Charleston, W.Va.;
secretary—John Thomas Province of Falls
Church, Va.; and treasurer—Benjamin A.
Williams of Courtland, Va.

 

Moot court team (I. to r.) Robin Hartmann, Charles Lewis, William Walker, and

captain Beverly Read almost did it.

e-day must make ¢

 

 

 

ore a

 

i
{
\

 

yne had come |

 

Pe
CE it i 4
ait A ’ (
we | ti kare ret a
ee : re wi tie

ATRILETICS 15

 

Keeping a floor clean can be a tough job these days, especially when you've got some needling to do, but Chico Mackey,

taped ankles and all, does them both to the Generals’ delight.

But in the third game, against Florida’s Rollins Col-
lege, Morrison caught an elbow on a rough play, open-
ing up a mean cut over his left eye. It took several stitches
to close the wound, kept him out of the following game
against Lynchburg, but, more importantly, cost him a
chance at a starting role. Rhyne and Gutshall were in and
Morrison was on the outside looking at them.

Senior Stu Fauber found himself in the same situa-
tion. A starting forward last year, he lost his job to
Daniel, who is physically bigger and stronger and who
has been on a hot streak all season long. Daniel hit eight
points in the opener against Randolph-Macon, then got
28 in the next game at Bridgewater and 25 against Rol-
lins. From that point, he was assured a starting assign-
ment.

Washington and Lee began its season away against
the Yellow Jackets in a most unimpressive fashion. Lead-
ing by as much as nine points with some eight minutes
to go and seemingly in the driver’s seat, the Generals’
energy soon dissipated under a_ blistering Randolph-
Macon comeback drive. ‘The game finally got down to a

54-54 tle with 32 seconds to go. Then, Jackets’ guard
Charlie Weston, who eventually finished with 24 points
and who was personally responsible for his team’s win,
canned two from outside to make it 56-54. A not so im-
possible free throw by ‘Macon forward Jim Phelps (no
kidding, that’s his name) sent it to 57-54, and from there
the Yellow Jackets let Cartwright have a basket uncon-
tested at tae buzzer to end it, 57-56.

‘The Generals came back to win their next four—102-
87 over Bridgewater, 84-62 over Rollins, 66-49 over
Lynchburg, and 86-56 over Hampden-Sydney. They were
methodical victories, played according to game plan, and
they gave Canfield an opportunity early in the schedule
to veteranize his bench a little.

Mostly, Canfield worked 6-7 freshman Paul McClure,
sophomore forward John Glace, and sophomore guards
Dave Stone and Scott Wood. McClure will be the man to
succeed Neer at center next year, and the rookie could go

just like gangbusters. He’s got an amazingly soft touch

for a big man, he can jump well, and he’s excellent at
blocking out opposing rebounders.

16. ATHLETICS

Glace, on the other hand, is the closest thing the Gen-
erals have to a bruiser. At 6-2, he is stocky and well-
built, with this huge barrel chest. Yet he can jump well,
stuffing in pre-game drills, and often palms the ball as he
waits for plays to develop—he just grabs the ball with one
hand and keeps it out of reach of groping defenders. He
will replace Cartwright, most likely.

Stone and Wood, because Rhyne and Gutshall have
time left, will be understudies for a while longer, al-
though they can handle the back court with aplomb.
Stone is the better shot, Wood the better ball handler.

With a 4-1 record on hand, Washington and Lee next
met Lehigh away, and it wasn’t a good trip. After a
sightseeing tour of New York City, the Generals returned
to Bethleham, Pa. and took an 85-71 licking, mainly be-
cause Canfield thought the team might have been too
much in awe of the hosts.

About midway through the first half, Washington
and Lee called time for counsel from Canfield. “I just
told them that they could stay even with this team, that
there wasn’t anything to be nervous about, but I guess by
then it was already too late,” he said later.

After Washington and Lee absorbed the Lehigh
bruise, the Generals won three straight—67-59 over Alma,
g1-78 over Centre, and 73-63 over Wofford—to up their
record to 7-2 going into the Christmas break, along the
way picking up their second consecutive Washington and
Lee Invitational Tournament title.

The Alma victory prepped the Generals for their own
tourney. No one knew much about Alma, knew where
they were from, or what their nicknames were, so the
standing bit of humor around campus the day of the
game was that Washington and Lee was going to play the
Maters that night, the Alma Maters.

The joke didn’t last long. Alma came to Lexington
ready to play, but evidently hadn’t heard of Cartwright,
and the rangy senior from Martinsville twisted and weav-
ed through the defenses for 19 points, while Daniel was
getting 14 rebounds, and the Generals slipped by, 67-59.

Up to defend its own title in the Invitational, Wash-
ington and Lee simply overpowered Centre, 91-78, as
Neer got 19 points and 16 rebounds in the opening
round. The Generals met Wofford in the finals the next
night, and this time it was Cartwright’s turn. He got 25
points and 16 rebounds to lead Washington and Lee to a
73-63 win, the Generals’ second straight title.

After the Christmas break, Washington and Lee hit
the road to Richmond to mect Virginia Commonwealth
University, formerly Richmond Professional Institute,
and it was another bad trip. VCU coach Benny Dees had
recruited heavily from the junior college ranks over the
past year and had come up with a mother lode of talented
players, six transfers in all.

Behind most of the night, the Generals got as close as
two points away midway through the second half, but
couldn't maintain the rally as the Rams won, 90-83.

Then it was off to the races again—Washington and
Lee won four in a row to arrive at the exam period with a
fine 11-3 record. During that span, the Generals defeated
Bridgewater, 99-74; Navy, 70-56; Emory & Henry, 82-52;
and Belmont Abbey, 92-64. ‘They were all pretty much
ho-hum wins, even the Navy game during which Wash-
ington and Lee made 28 of 36 free throws in turning
back a Middie team that couldn’t handle the M-Squad.

 

Generals’ fans in the East and Midwest, and
beyond, can get all Washington and Lee basketball
scores by tuning in radio station WOWO in Ft.
Wayne, Ind. around 11:15 p.m. the night of each
game. Announcer Jim Edwards regularly reports
Generals’ scores on the 50,000-watt, clear-channel
station. The schedule: Ham pden-Sydney—Feb. 4;
Baltimore—l'eb. 7; Lynchburg—leb. 9; Old Domi-
nion—Feb. 11; Mars Hill—Feb. 14: West Virginia
Vech_leb, 17;. Davis &. Elkins—leb, 20; Fairleigh
Dickinson—Feb. 21; Virginia Commonwealth—Feb.
24; and the College Athletic Conference tourna-
ment—leb. 27-28.

 

Statistics showed that Cartwright was pacing the
Washington and Lee scoring attack going into exams,
hitting 60 per cent of his floor shots (ranking him in the
top 15 nationally) and carrying an 18.4 average. Daniel
was second, averaging 16.3 points a game, and Neer was
next with a 15.7 points-per-game figure.

The Generals were averaging 80.2 points a game,
while holding their opponents to just 66.5 points each
time out.

Most of the remaining games are in friendly Doremus
Gymnasium, and that’s going to be a big factor against
outstanding teams like Baltimore, Old Dominion, Fair-
leigh Dickinson, and a return match-up with Virginia
Commonwealth. There isn’t a single team, not one, that
likes to play the Generals in there. Somehow, when the
feet start stomping, when the yelling reaches a fever-
pitch, and when those arms start waving, somehow visit-
ing teams just don’t like it very much. |

Mostly, it’s the students making all the noise, but now
the new people are beginning to join in, people like Mr.
Green over there in his chair. A quiet man, he expresses
his pleasure simply by smiling or his displeasure by re-
crossing his legs. Usually he smiles.

Chico is quite the opposite. After he gets through
with his job downstairs, he’ll quickly hustle up to the
balcony to join a eroup of his buddies, and from there
he leads a wild cheering section, exhorting, cajoling,
prodding the Generals on to better things.

“Make your move, Cartwright. Make your move.”

And, sure cnough, there Cartwright goes, finding a
three-inch-wide passageway down there on the baseline
and heading for the basket.

“Yeah, man. That’s two.”

Just like Chico told him.

Swimmers On Schedule

While the Generals’ basketball team
was doing its thing upstairs, head coach
Bill Stearns’ swimming squad was on sche-
dule downstairs in the Doremus pool. At
the exam break, Stearns’ team had posted
a 2-2 record, winning over Dickinson and
Catholic, and losing to American and
Virginia.

At the start of the season, Stearns
knew he might have trouble in some
meets because the Generals were weak in
the backstroke and breaststroke events.
The loss of All-America _ backstroker
Billy Ball to graduation was the biggest
sore point, leaving a gap that Stearns
wasn’t able to fill with freshman hopefuls.

Washington and Lee opened against
American, a team the Generals had never
defeated. In the end, American had too
much depth, led by the world’s No. 7
freestyler Jose Aranha, and the final score
was 69-35, favor of American.

A bright point of the meet was All-
America Billy Brumback’s time in the 50-
yard freestyle. He turned the distance in
:22.6, qualifying for the NCAA national
meet that will be held at Oakland Uni-
versity in Rochester, Mich. at season’s end.

Washington and Lee came back to win
two straight, 62-41 over Dickinson and
58-46 against Catholic University, a team
the Generals hadn’t defeated in five years.
Dickinson won only two events, as Stearns
tried to keep the score down by swimming
younger performers.

The Catholic upset was decided in the
last event when Brumback, senior co-cap-
tain Roger Martin, sophomore Bim Clark,
and freshman Alan Corwith won the 400-
yard freestyle relay. Another factor influ-
encing the win was the Generals’ success
in the short freestyle races. Brumback and
Martin went 1-2, respectively, in the 50-
yard freestyle, and Corwith and Martin
went 1-2, respectively, in the 100, provid-
ing Washington and Lee a 16-2 point
spread in the two events.

Virginia defeated the Generals, 55-49,
in the last meet before exams in a square-
off where Washington and Lee’s weakness
in the backstroke and breaststroke be-
came apparent. The Wahoos went 1-2 in
each of those two events, and they went
1-2 in diving and the 500-yard freestyle to
assure their win during the middle part of
the meet.

The loss was particularly severe to the
Generals, in that Washington and Lee
had defeated Virginia, 53-51, in a dual en-

counter last year just before the Wahoos
won the state meet, an event the Gen-
erals couldn’t attend because of a commit-
ment to the College Athletic Conference
finals held at the same time.

That won’t happen again this winter.
The state meet at William and Mary is
scheduled a week before the CAC show-
down (to be held at Centre College in

 

All-America Bill Brumback

Danville, Ky.), and it will present Wash-
ington and Lee an opportunity to get
back at the Wahoos. The battle between
the Generals and Virginia will most likely
determine second place within the state,
since Stearns feels host William and Mary
is too powerful for anybody.

Washington and Lee should be ready
for Virginia. The Generals will have three
dual meets before driving to Williams-
burg, and Stearns feels almost sure his
team will turn back Old Dominion, Loy-
ola, and West Virginia Wesleyan in short
order.

The Brain Center

Washington and Lee offensive center
and football tri-captain Michael T.
(Thunder) Thornton has been awarded
a $1,000 post-graduate scholarship by the
NCAA.

The NCAA annually awards a number
of scholarships to the top scholar-athletes
across the country. Thornton was _ pre-
sented the award in the NCAA’s District

 

ATHLETICS 17

3, which includes schools from Maryland
to Florida.

Thornton ranks 15th in his class of
298 men, with a grade point average of
3.389 on a 4.0 scale. He is majoring in
American history and plans to continue
his education in law.

The 21-year-old Huntington, W.Va.
native has played football for four years
for the Generals, serving as a tri-captain
this past season. He was named to the All-
Virginia small college team as a junior,
and this year was chosen to the All-Col-
lege Athletic Conference team, selected
by the league’s coaches.

A leader both on and off the football
field, Thornton has been a consistent
honor roll and dean’s list student, and
this year served as head dormitory coun-
selor. He has been active in a number of
campus organizations, including the Var-
sity Club, and is a sports writer for the
Ring-tum Phi.

Football Captains Elected

Juniors Staman Ogilvie and Drew
Kumpuris have been elected co-captains of
the 1970 football Generals.

‘They were chosen by their teammates
in a post-season meeting after winding up
the 1969 campaign with a 4-5-0 record.

Ogilvie is an offensive guard and a
good one, despite his lack of size (he’s 5-10
and 180 pounds). At the beginning of the
past season, head coach Buck Leslie said
Ogilvie “could be one of the finest guards
WR&L ever had.” 3

Kumpuris is also light (6-0, 170) for
the position he plays, defensive linebacker,
but his quickness makes up for it. During
the Generals’ nine-game season, he was
credited with 57 individual tackles and
26 assists, an average of more than nine a
game.

For both boys it is the completion of
a “brother act.’’ Ogilvie’s older brother,
Buck, was captain of the 1963 football
team, and Kumpuris’ brother, Dean, was
captain of the 1969 squad.

Kumpuris is a biology major from
Little Rock, Ark. He is an honor roll and
dean’s list student and active in a num-
ber of campus activities, including serv-
ing as sports editor of the yearbook.

Ogilvie, a commerce major from
Shreveport, La., ranks 19th academically
in his class of 280. He is a dean’s list stu-
dent and has served for two years as an
elected member of the student govern-
ment executive committee.

18: CLASS NOTES

 

 

‘THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR

With Crest in Five Colors

‘The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’41.

Price: $37.00 f.0.b.
Gardner, Massachusetts
Mail your order to

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

CHAPTER NEWS

DANVILLE. Alumni from a wide area
surrounding Danville, Va. met on Dec. 1
to hear an up-to-date report on some of
the current activities of the University.
Guest speaker for the occasion was Athle-
tic Director Gene Corrigan. Outgoing
president T. Ryland Dodson, ’46, pre-
sided over a short business session that
included the election of new chapter of-
ficers: Judge Nelson Light, ’52 (president),
Dr. Robert H. Mauck, ’50 (vice president),
and Charles L. McCormick III, ’58 (sec-
retary).

AUGUSTA - ROCKINGHAM. Outgoing
president Raymond Freed of Waynesboro
hosted a special cocktail party and dinner
in honor of President and Mrs. Robert
E. R. Huntley on Dec. 11 in Staunton.
The agenda included a report from Presi-
dent Huntley on the state of Washington
and Lee, and the unanimous approval of
a new slate of officers for the coming year,
to include: Robert Rhea, ’58 (president),
William Gunn, ’°42 (vice president), and
Ross Hersey, 40 (secretary-treasurer). Also
attending the meeting from the Univer-
sity were Dr. and Mrs. Edward F. Turner
Jr., ’50, head of the physics department
and a native of Waynesboro, and Alumni
Secretary Bill Washburn.

CLASS NOTES

1888

The Foundation for Historic Restoration in
the Pendleton, S.C. area has announced the
forthcoming publication of a third book of
poems by RoBerr AbdcER BowEN, The Call
of the Sea and Other Verse. The Foundation
considers the volume an appropriate con-
tribution to South Carolina’s Tricentennial
Celebration next year, since its author has
lived during one-third of the goo years
of the state’s history. Bowen is one of the
oldest living alumni of the Association, born
Dec. go, 1868. He has spent most of his re-
tirement years in Greenville, S.C., and_ his
knowledge and appreciation of both the low
country and the upstate area are reflected
in many of his poems, as well as in his
sensitivity to life in general as observed and
remembered during a significant century.

1904

At the age of 88, GrorcrE E. HAw is still
practicing law. He is at his office until 2
o'clock each day and occasionally plays golf
or drives to his country place in Dundee,
Va. Haw was an honored guest on campus
during the national football centennial pro.

gram.
1908

After retiring from government service in
1959, R. S. KEEBLER continues to be active
and has been on two extensive tours to
Europe. Currently, he is writing his memoirs
for his four children, two of them graduates
of Washington and Lee.

1910

D. W. EARMAN, at the age of 85, is still en-
gaged in law practice in Harrisonburg, Va.
He is particularly interested in civic activi-
ties.

1912

Admitted to the bar in Harrisonburg, Va.
in 1912, Russ—ELL B. WINE moved to San
Antonio, Tex. the next year to begin law
practice. From 1925-1933, he was Assistant
U.S. Attorney, and from 1940-1944 he was
in the State District Attorney's office. Wine
served fifteen years as chairman of the
Selective Service Board.

1913

ADRIAN WILLIAMSON has been practicing law
in Monticello, Ark. since 1915. He is a
senior partner in the firm of Williamson,
Williamson & Bull, and is chairman of the
board of the Union Bank & Trust Co.

roto

WILLIAM A. KELEHER, a distinguished at-
torney of Albuquerque, N.M., has completed
a new book of his memoirs. Spanning 77
years of life in Albuquerque, the long-await-
ed book of personal recollections will be
published by the Rydal Press of Santa Fe.
To quote the author in his introduction,
the book is “Written especially for New
Mexicans of good heart whether New Mexi-
cans by birth, adoption or inclination.”
Memoirs: 1893-1969 will mark a radical de-
parture from the previous books on New
Mexico history from the pen of this highly-
regarded attorney and historian. The new
Keleher book will consist of a passing parade
of Albuquerque history over a period of
more than 75 years, a parade in which the
author was an active and leading participant
rather than a mere observer. Keleher began
his practice in Albuquerque in 1915 and has
continued it to this day. He was a mem-
ber of the New Mexico Water Commission
Board from 1924-26, chairman of the State
Democratic Central Committee in 1928, a
member of the State Finance Board from
1932-49, and president of the Board of
Regents of New Mexico A&M (now New
Mexico State University) in 1941-42. Although
mentioned prominently over the years as
a possible nominee for governor of New
Mexico, Keleher has never actively sought
the nomination.

For over 30 years, JUDGE MILLARD FILMORE
HaAys was in school work in Kentucky. In
1947, he entered business, and for 19 years
he has been president of J. M. Hays In-
surance & Realty Co. in Elizabethtown, Ky.

1916

Leaving the practice of law in 1918, JOHN
W. MaAy entered a venture in the laundry
business. In 1940, he began work in sales
with Wyandott Corp., and has been in sales
ever since. He is now with William Lynn
Chemical Co., and is also in the laundry
and dry cleaning business in Indianapolis,

Ind.
1917

Gov. Hearnes of Missouri has appointed
Cot. C. R. STRIBLING of Mexico, Mo. to the
Little Hoover Commission to develop a plan
to make the state government a more

efficient, more responsive organization. Col.
Stribling, who is currently chairman of the
board of the Missouri Military Academy, is
a public servant and successful businessman.
Col. Stribling has also served with distinction
on the Mexico Park Board and the Recrea-
tion Commission. He is a past president of
the Mexico Chamber of Commerce, the
Mexico Rotary Club, the Association of
Military Colleges and Schools of the United
States, the Independent Schools Association
of the Central States, and the Missouri
Chamber of Commerce.

1920

HoLMEs ROLSTON retired as editor-in-chief of
the Presbyterian Board of Christian Educa-
tion in Richmond on Dec. 31.

1924

Richmonder CHARLES H. PHILLIPS is still
full of young ideas. He recently wrote a new
song entitled “Darling” and received a note
of thanks from Maurice Chevalier. Phillips,
once a member of the House of Delegates,
is always up to something. His major in-
vention is a trapezoid bed, 30 inches wide
at the head and go at the foot. His major
political accomplishment is the abolition of
flogging in the Virginia Prison System.

PAUL O. WHITFIELD retired in Nov., 1967
from Oxford University Press as college divi-
sion editor.

L925

The U.S. Army Medical Research and Nu-
trition Laboratory in Denver recently honor-
ed Dr. Herpert PoLtack. A citation and
plaque were presented to Dr. Pollack in ap-
preciation for his professional consulting
services. The occasion marked the 25th an-
niversary of the founding of the laboratory.

EDWARD MaAtTz is chairman of the board of
Kurly Kate Corp., headquartered in Chicago.
His son, Ed Jr,, who is also a graduate of
Washington and Lee, is president of the

firm.
1926

E. A. Morris, chairman of the board of
Blue Bell, Inc. of Greensboro and a North
Carolina business leader, has been elected
to the board of directors of Wachovia Bank
& Trust Co. Morris joined Blue Bell in
1938 as a plant engineer at the firm’s Abing-
don, Ill. facility. In 1941, he was named
executive vice president in charge of manu-
facturing, and in 1948 was elected president
and chief executive officer. He has been
chairman of the board since 1966, and con-
tinues as chief executive officer. He is a
director of the N.C. Citizens Association,
the Southern States Industrial Council, and
was appointed this year by President Nixon
to the Citizens Stamp Advisory Committee.
He is a former president of the American
Apparel Manufacturers Association, and has
been a director of the National Association
of Manufacturers.

Jupce W. Hitt Brown Jp. is a_ practicing
attorney in Manassas, Va. Among the many

positions he has held are judge of the
police court of Manassas, assistant county
judge for Prince William County, and gen-
eral receiver of the Circuit Court of Prince
William County. He has also been counsel
and trust officer for the National Bank of
Manassas, and president and counsel of
Brown-Huoff, Inc. Judge Brown is also the
local counsel for the Southern Railway Co.
and the C&O Railway Co.

1927

Since graduation, JOE WIsE Pitts Sr. has
been with Brown-Roberts Co. in Alexandria,
La. and is now president and general man-
ager.

After 34 years with the Potomac Edison Co.,
WALKER N. JOLLIFFE retired Jan. 1. He lives
in Frederick, Md.

1928

After 41 years with duPont Co., RoGER J.
HALLER has retired and expects to continue
to live in Waynesboro, Va.

BOZO

Upon completion of his tenure as president
of the Association of American Physicians,
Dr. ROBERT WILLIAMS took office as president
of the Endocrine Society.

 

WALTER H. WILCOx, ’29

After 39 years of service, WALTER H. WILCOx
is retiring as president of S. D. Warren Co.,
a division of Scott Paper Co. Wilcox began
his career with Warren in 1930, and rose
through a number of sales positions. In
1949, he was named sales manager and
became a director. He was elected vice
president for sales in 1953, and _ president
in 1965. Wilcox was chairman of the Print-
ing Paper Manufacturers Association in

1958-59.
1930

After serving 14 years, JUDGE RUSSELL O.
Morrow recently retired as a Circuit Court

CLASS NOYES -19

judge of Florida. He had previously served
15 years aS a State representative and state
senator. Judge Morrow holds the rank of
Captain in the U.S. Naval Reserve.

1931

Dr. LEONARD C. BORLAND is enjoying semi-
retirement. He has turned his attention to
cabinet making, sculpturing, gardening, read-
ing, writing, playing the organ, and serving
as the director of the Dental Training Pro-
gram at Virginia Western Community Col-

lege in Roanoke.
1934

JupGE THORNTON G. BERRY JR. of the State
Supreme Court of Appeals in West Virginia
has been elected vice president of the
American Judicature Society at its annual
meeting in Dallas. The society, the second
largest national legal organization in the
world, promotes court improvements
throughout the country.

1936

J. EARL Hicks has been director of statistics
for the International Monetary Fund for 24
years. He is also editor of International
Financial Statistics.

Dr. ALFRED KAHN Jr. is in private practice
of medicine in Little Rock as an internist,
and he also edits the state medical journal.
Kahn is associated with the University of
Arkansas as a_ trustee of the Donaghey
Foundation, which supports the University.
He is also past president of the Downtown
Rotary Club.

CHARLES B. Cross JR. is currently serving as
clerk of the Circuit Court, City of Chesa-
peake, Second Judicial Circuit of Virginia.
He is the author of The County Court,
1637-1904, Norfolk County, Virginia and The
Chesapeake: A Biography of A Ship. The
last work resulted in an award of commenda-
tion from the American Association of State
and Local History.

1937

WILLIAM C. WILBUR JR. continues as a pro-
fessor of history and chairman of the Division
of History at Florida Presbyterian College in
St. Petersburg, Fla.

1938

After an absence of some 18 years, WILLIAM
B. BaAcBEY has returned to Roanoke and
is associated with the Thomas Rutherford
Bonding & Insurance Co. Bagbey is retired
from the Navy with the rank of Commander.

After 19 years at Ohio State University,
RoBert BASILE has moved to the University
of Toledo where he is a professor in the
geography department.

The Georgia Savings & Loan League of
Atlanta recently paid tribute to “THOMAs
HAL CLARKE for his recent appointment by
President Nixon as a member of the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board. By his presidential
appointment to the Board, Clarke became
the first Georgian and one of the few

40: CLASS NOTES

Southerners to be appointed to this post.
He has practiced law continuously in Atlanta
since admission to the Georgia Bar in 1939.
Previously with the law firm of Mitchell,
Clarke, Pate & Anderson, he became as-
sociated with the Atlanta Federal Savings
& Loan Association as an attorney in 1948
and became a member of the association
board in 1965. He is a member of many
professional associations and bar associa-
tions and a former chairman of the United
States Savings and Loan League Attorneys
Committee. Clarke is a member of the
American Judicature Society, a trustee of
the Atlanta Lawyers Foundation, Inc., a
patron of the International Bar Association,
and a member of the Selden Society, a
British legal fraternity concerned with the
history of British common law. He is also
on the boards of Roy D. Warren Co., Inc.,
the Title Company of Georgia; Can-Car, Inc.;
and Landmarks Group, Inc. Active in civic
affairs, Clarke has been a member of the
Atlanta Chamber of Commerce, serving on
the Expressway Committee. He is a_ past
president of the Atlanta Historical Society
and is active in the affairs of the English
Speaking Union.

1939

The Herald-News of Passaic, N. J. has named
RopNry L. ODELL as managing editor. He
began with the Herald-News as a reporter
in 1939, and a few years later joined the
Associated Press where he was night editor
in the Newark Bureau. During World War
II, he joined the Office of War Information
and was attached to the news desk of an
underground radio station in London, and
also in Luxenbourg. He returned to the
Herald-News in 1945 when he became first
a reporter and then a desk man. In 1953,
when the North Sea flooded parts of the
Netherlands, he was sent to that country

to cover the floods and relief operations. As
a result, he was awarded the William the
Silent Medal for foreign correspondents by
the Dutch in 1954. Odell was sent to Viet-
nam in 1965.

 

RopNry L. ODELL, ’39

H. TYNDALL DICKINSON was recently elected
to the Board of Directors of Arkansas Louisi-
ana Gas Co. He is president of McGeorge
Contracting Co. and vice president of Kan-
sas City Transit Co. Dickinson is a former
president of Associated General Contractors
of Arkansas, a former board member of
Union National Bank, chairman of the Board
of Visitors of the University of Arkansas,
a member of the Culver Military Academy

Alumni Board, and a former president of

the Little Rock Country Club.

WALLER C. HARpy JR. has been named com-
pany manager of Parker Hunter, Inc. at the
Parkersburg, W.Va. office. The firm is a
member of the New York Stock Exchange
and was formed by the merger of Key Rich-
ards & Co. Inc. and McKelvy & Co. of
Pittsburgh, Pa.

Dr. ZALMON H. GARFIELD is presently pro-
gram director for Horizon House, a_re-
habilitation center for the psychiatrically
disabled in Philadelphia. He was formerly
with the Eagleville Hospital and Rehabilita-
tion, Center.

Dr. W. PAscHAL REEVES is author of a book,
Thomas Wolfe’s Albatross: Race and Na-
tionality in America. He is presently an
associate professor of English at the Uni-
versity of Georgia, where he has been a mem-
ber of the faculty since 1964. Reeves, author
of many articles on American literature, is
co-editor of the forthcoming The Notebooks
of Thomas Wolfe. The new book is pub-
lished by the University of Georgia Press.

1940

FRANKLIN A, NICHOLS was promoted to
Major General in the U. S. Air Force this
summer. He currently is stationed at Griffin

AFB, New York.

1942
Dr. Waitt N. SCHULTZ was appointed presi-
dent of the American Public Affairs Founda-
tion of Chicago. He is also vice president
of a management education firm—Winter,
Kahn, Neilson, Ross, & Buckwalter, Inc. of
Lake Forest, Ill. Schultz is also chief execu-
tive of How To Book Co.

FRANK L. LAMOTTE JR. has moved back to
Baltimore as assistant to the president of
T. W. Winstead Co., a research and de-
velopment firm in plastic processing equip-

| 1944

ALEXANDER H. WALKER has joined the staff
of Chemical Abstracts Service of Columbus,
Ohio. He was previously employed as a re-
search and development chemist in the
technical center of Union Carbide Corp. in
Charleston, W.Va. Chemical Abstracts Ser-
vice, a division of the American Chemical
Society, is one of the large processors of
chemical and chemical engineering informa-
tion.

GEORGE FREHLING has been appointed vice
president for operations of Ryder Temporary
Personnel, Inc., a newly-formed operation
of Ryder System Inc., a public relations firm.
The new Ryder operation will furnish busi-

ness with secretarial, clerical, industrial,
marketing, and technical personnel on a
temporary basis. Prior to his appointment,
Frehling was marketing vice president for
Reynolds Electric Co. of Chicago. He form-
erly was marketing director for the sales-
power division of Manpower, Inc., and
held executive marketing positions in the
petroleum exploration and consumer goods

fields.
1945

Dr. Logan Wilson, president of the American
Council of Education, has announced the
appointment of ARTHUR V. MILONA of the
Fairfax County public schools as director
of the GED Testing Service. The Office of
the GED Testing Service operates under the
policies, direction, and supervision of the
Commission of Accreditation of Service Ex-
periences of the American Council of Educa-
tion. Milona will be responsible for the
operation of the national testing program
and more than 300,000 adults will be ad-
ministered the test during the calendar year.
Milona’s responsibility not only includes
close cooperation with state administrators
of the GED Testing Program, but also the
chief examiners located in hundreds of uni-
versities and public schools throughout the
nation. Milona has done graduate work at
Boston University, the University of Ten-

 

ARTHUR V. MILONA, °45

nessee, and George Washington University.
In 1962 and again in 1964, he was the
recipient of an NDEA guidance fellowship.
He began his teaching career at Clifton
Forge High School and later was guidance
director in the Prince William County
Schools for three years. He then advanced
to the Virginia State Department of Educa-
tion as assistant state supervisor of adult

education.
1946

WILLIAM A. MAGEE has become second vice
president for securities at Shenandoah Life
Insurance Co. in Roanoke. Magee has served
in various capacities since 1947, and has

Commerce |

television and p

admini

 

 

the current presid
Heart Associati

ciation. —

was appoint do

of the Travis County

 

 

 

22 CLASS NOTES

1958

The president of Wachovia Bank and Trust
Co., JOHN F. WATLINGTON, ’33, has announced
the promotion of H. GARy PANNELL to as-
sistant vice president. Pannell, a_ resident
of Winston-Salem, joined Wachovia in June
of 1968 and was named legal assistant in
December of that year. He received his LL.B.
degree from the University of Virginia School
of Law, and was formerly staff attorney for
the Comptroller of the Currency in Wash-
ington, D.C.

real estate
with T. M.

RuFus L. SAFFORD is a_ licensed
broker in Charlotte, N.C.
Chisholm Realty, Inc.

1959

Major THOMAS W. Kroetz of Ft. Lauderdale,
Fla. has received the U.S. Air Force Com-
mendation Medal at Randolph Air Force
Base in Texas. Kroetz was decorated for
meritorious service as judge advocate while
at Shu Lin Kou Air Station in Taiwan. He
was cited for his exceptional profesional
skill, superior technical knowledge, and
dedication to duty. He earned his B.A. de-
gree in 1959 and his LL.B. from Washing-
ton and Lee two years later He is now
stationed at Randolph AFB with the 1105th
Military Personnel Group

The Hickory Furniture Co of Hickory, N.C.
has announced that C. Royce Houcu III will
join its Board of Directors. Hough is a vice
president at the Wachovia Bank & Trust Co.
in Winston-Salem, N.C. His civic activities
include membership on the executive com-
mittee of the Winston-Salem Arts Council,
work with the United Fund, and member-
ship in the Robert Morris Associates.

1960

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RARDON BEVILL, a
son, Daniel Spencer, on July 22. Bevill is
an assistant professor of molecular biology
at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in
New York City.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND E. Woo L-
DRIDGE, a daughter, Rebecca Ann, on Oct. 21.
Wooldridge is branch manager of Eppler,
Guerin & Turner, an investment firm in
Dallas.

Cpr. W. Scotr ALLEN is legal officer for the
8th Naval District, and he is also military
judge for the Navy and Marine Corps in
the New Orleans area.

Living in Bristol, E. Peter Lirron is presi-
dent of Atlas Concrete, Inc. He is also presi-
dent of the Virginia Ready-Mix Concrete
Association.

After a tour of duty with the U.S. Air
Force, Dr. JAMEs B. Ducketr is now engaged
in anesthesiology in a group with three
other doctors at Baylor Hospital in Dallas.

Fully involved in the art department at
Phillip’s Academy in Andover, Mass., JOHN
K. McMurray has branched out into the
audio-visual field. He helps students make
their own slide-tapes for other departmental
assignments,

196]

T. H. (Tom) ALEXANDER is currently assistant
retail manager for Standard Oil Co. of
California. He is based at San Diego and is
working for Western Operations, Inc.

WittiAM =B. McWILLIAMS has been pro-
moted from assistant cashier to assistant vice
president of Wachovia Bank and Trust Co.
in Asheville, N.C. McWilliams joined Wa-
chovia in 1967 in Winston-Salem. He was
elected assistant cashier of the bank in
1968. He is a member of the Greater Wins-
ton-Salem Chamber of Commerce.

After receiving his M.D. degree from Tulane
in 1965, Dr. Davin LeFKowirz III completed
internship at Charity Hospital in New
Orleans and his pediatric residency at the
University of ‘Tennessee. He is now an
Army pediatrician at Ft. Knox, Ky. Dr.
Lefkowitz expects to begin an immunology
fellowship at Duke University in July, 1970.

Formerly with Victor Products Corp., ROBERT
J. FUNKHOUsER JR. is now operational vice
president for American Kem-Co Corp. in
Charlestown, W. Va.

WINSTON E. Kock is an account executive
with Blair Television in New York City.

WARREN R. WELSH, an attorney and former
Federal Bureau of Investigation — special
agent, has been named manager of compli-
ance and practices for the National Broad-
casting Company-West Coast. Welsh served
with the FBI in Missouri and Florida before
joining NBC in New York in February, 19609.

After receiving his M.D. degree from Duke
in 1965, Dr. CHARLES P. RILEY is completing
his residency in internal medicine at Duke.
He has just finished two years in the heart
disease control program of the U.S. Public
Health Service. Dr. Riley expects to move
to Birmingham, Ala. in July, 1970 to begin
a fellowship in cardiology at the University
of Alabama Medical Center.

1962

LANCE ‘TARRANCE JR. has received a White
House appointment as a special assistant to
the Director of the Census. He previously
held the position of director of research for
the Republican National Committee in
Washington, D.C.

After three years service with the U.S. Navy
at Subic Bay in the Phillippines, Roperr K.
Woop graduated from the University of Ken-
tucky Law School in 1968. He was Order of
the Coif and on the staff of the Law Journal.
Wood is currently legal consultant with
Spindletop Research, Inc. of Lexington, Ky.
Since 1964, JOHN P. PrETzoLp has been as-
sistant attorney general for the State of
Ohio. He is associated with the law firm of
Allbery & Roberts of Dayton.

BASF Systems, Inc. has named Harry PreEs-
TON III as products manager for sound and
video products. Preston had previously been
product manager for cassettes and sound,
and viedo products administrator. He joined
BASF Systems, Inc. in 1966 from the Gen-

 

HARRY PRESTON III, *62

eral Electric Co. BASF Systems, Inc. manu-
factures magnetic recording media for all
memory storage applications.

1963

MARRIED: Joun E. Tieton to Marilyn
Matthews on Novy. 29g. Tipton is a buyer of
space and missile systems at McDonnell
Douglas Corp. He is attending night classes
at Washington University and expects to
receive his M.B.A. in June, 1970.

MARRIED: AsHLEyY T. WILSHIRE JR. to
Susan Chappell Ford on June 7, 1969 in
Bangkok, Thailand. They returned to the
States in August, 1969. Wiltshire is now
studying at the Vanderbilt University School
of Law.

BORN: Capt. and Mrs. OMER L. JETER Jr.,
a daughter, Kimberly Dodge, on Nov. 2.
Jeter is in his last year with the U.S. Air
Force at Dover, Del. where he is a general
medical officer. He expects to enter radiology
residency at the University of Virginia in
1970.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Davin F. PETERS, a
daughter, Elizabeth Frankman, on April 4,

1969.

After release from the Army in 1965, RuFus
K. Barton III received his M.B.A. from
Washington University in 1967. He is cur-
rently employed in the underwriting depart-
ment of A. G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., a ree-
ional investment banking firm headquartered
in St. Louis, with 60 branch offices.

Beginning in February, 1970, SHERWOOD WISE
will spend one year in Switzerland studying
geology on a National Science Foundation
post-doctoral fellowship.

Recently transferred from Rochester, N.Y. to
Orlando, Fla., E. BRENT WELLS JR. is ad-
ministrative manager for Xerox in the com-
pany’s products group’s Florida operation.

After resigning from KTRK-TV as _ news

 

  

producer and e
has joined Ber
of Houston, T .
company ‘is a
engineering, oy at plar
nomics, and systems. ae 7 ae

ARENCE _ Reysttaw mie

  
 
  
    
   
 
    
 
  
   
 

Dr. MICHAEL D. SussMAN- is
associate at ‘the Geronte ,
of the National In:
at the Baltimore — (
assignment 2

joined Wachovia in 1964 at
Salem “office. a moved to

 

Chamber of
of the Board of M
in Arden, N. Cc

After receiving his 1
tion from t i
C. Kowatsxr
olmaitre ints .

ome Safe Deposit & ee Co. of B
more, Md. At present his primary responsi.
bilities include working in the national di-

vision with calling responsibilities in the

Southeastern and il had portions of
the U.S.

WILLIAM EARLE. BROWN has ‘recently on

promoted to credit manager of Sears Roe- |

buck & Co. in Petersburg, | Va.

    

Austin C. Bray Jr., formerly asso iated
the Dallas firm of. Wynne, Jatt
has been appointed
eral of Texas, and now resid

    

 
  

for Owens- Corning To ,

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ‘EL §
a son, Tucker Matthew, o1
is practicing law with the Wall
of Emmet, Marvin, = Martin in

City. a

  

 

 

| data processing ened mi

office of pate Farm M ra Automobile Tn. |

 

Rex H, “Wooprine cE

 
    
  
  
     

in Atlanta, Ga.

 
   

1969,

| with

“HorreR TIT, a

a daughter, F Elizabeth Roe

coer Mr. |

 

MarrHew H. Hurseer is in the department
of chemistry as a specialist. in the field of

electroanalytical chemistry. He was formerly |

 

a lecturer rat the University of Wisconsin,

is now a lieutenant with
lal Battalion in the -Meckong
h Vietnam. a

 

the sand Sig

  
    
  
  
 

ae is = working for Shell

| installing pro-
oth offshore and onshore.

 

7 ‘After serving with the vith “Armored Cav-

.

alry Regiment in South Vietnam, Carr.
Horus I. Moore jr. is currently with the
tg5th Armored Brigade at Ft Knox, Ky. |

 

After completing a year of rotating hospital
PETER S.

internship at Ft. Sill, Okla., Dr.
‘TRAGER is now stationed cat Ft. M

 

  
 
  
   
 

He has ‘spent two. “years in procurement.

_ After two years service in the ‘Army, Roperr
Q. Forrster Il returned to the States and
entered law school at the University of

Georgia. He received his J.D. degree in June,
and is now an attorney for the
Maritime © Administration in _ Washington,

D.C. -
| 96! 9

 

‘MARRIED: DAN J. FRIEDMAN JR. to Harriet
Y» Pollack of Vineland, N.J. on Sept. 27. Fried-
n- man is working for his M.A.
administration in
a George | Washington - University.

in business
international business at
He is em-
' IBM as systems engineer work-

     
   
    

Miingelnoty ” ext

  
  

is enon hn in his own sore eats En-

 

ant Mrs. Tony

r in the production

_ ester,

  
 

1 of defense systems © for the an |

     
    
 

, on aly 9. ees

“ARTHUR |

James W. DE YOUNG i is. ass ociated with Baxter
Laboratories, Inc. of Morton Grove, Hl. The
company manufactures a diverse line of—
products in hospital and health fields. De-
Young is a graduate of Northwestern Law
School and is a member of the Illinois Bar.

 

A sales trainee with Reynolds Metals Co.

in Richmond, JOHN C.. Crissatan has just

been promoted by the company to packag-
ing division representative in the Dallas
region. A native of Cleveland, Ohio, Criss-
man served in the Army in 1966- 67 and
joined Reynolds in April, 1969. |

After receiving his law. degree from Wash-
ington and Lee in> 1968, “MICHAEL — je
MICHAELES attended summer sessions: at the |
University of Valencia in ‘S 1968-69, —
he taught Spanish at
and cae, he is pr
Ma

      
  
 
 
 

        
 
   

 
   
 
 
 

 

  
 
 
 

 

working’ « on his dis-
clinical psychology
versity a a mee

 
  
   
       
 
 
  
   
   

Tex.

    

). in organic ch
U versity ia _AsH

    
    
   
 
  

  

istry from Cornell
AL LEN is now as i

 

 

  
 

 
      
 

omen -

S me assistant |

 
 
 

        
 
 
 
  

; =
a

 
 

 
 

J. “Law School
969 r the bar in
:OR oe FLooD Matson is now =
, Files, «

offices

pO

‘with

Boe Oo

1966 os

MARRIED: ‘PHILP D. MoLLERE to. Barbara =
Beacham in “August,
rently working for a doctorate in chemistry

 

1968. Mollere is cur-

at Louisiana State University. ee

Joun L. Baner received his J.D. degree from
Texas Law School in August, 1969 and ©
passed the State Bar in. "September. He is | ;

currently employed by Holiday Inns, Inc.
in their finance dept.

Both GrRARD T. TAYLOR and his wife, are

 

~ candidates for Ph.D. degrees at Cornell Uni-
versity. Taylor expects to receive his degree
in June, 1970, and will then serve a two-)

   

|
1

{

|

\
|
|
\
|

 

 

The Rise and Growth of
Washington and Lee
es Stay

OLLINGER

 

A Sie. of Washington and Lee Universicy

by Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw ae
a Professor of History and University Historian

Published by Random House, New York —
: Price: $10. 00

This book i isa work of deveuon iad baiueeiken sehoike

ship on the part of the University’ s distinguished |
historian. It will have deep meaning for everyone who
has shared the Washington and Lee experience. For all,

at 1s an. important record of the development of one
of the nation’s BEE Institutions.

Here is ihe story. of Washingion aie Lee University as

only Dr. Crenshaw could tell it—from its ces as a

~ small classical academy to a place of prominence in
education that continues today. It is a story of crises ©

met and overcome, of self-sacrifice for the good of the
institution, of changing perspectives, of unusual
educational foresight, of personalities, great teachers, —
outstanding administrators, distinguished alumni

who personify the best of Washington and Lee.

It is a book no alumnus of Washington and Lee, no
friend of Washington and Lee, no patron of higher
education can afford to be without. Be sure to obtain a
first edition copy. Please fill in and return the attached
order form today. Mail it to The Bookstore, Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 244m0,
together with your payment of $10.00 plus a 75-cent
handling charge for each copy purchased.

ORDER FORM

THE BOOKSTORE
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNI VERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me________copy(ies) of General Lee’s College, a
history of Washington and Lee University by Dr. Ollinger Cren-
shaw, at $10.00 each. (Include 75 cents handling charges for
each copy purchased).

 

Name

 

Address. Zip Code

Payment of $___m___is enclosed.

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 THE MCCORMICK LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIV
LEXINGTON VA
24450

 

A package of four elegant photographs of campus scenes,
suitable for framing, was mailed in November to alumni
and parents of students. |

The photographs are 6-by-8 duotones printed on 8'%-by-
11 sheets. All you have to do is slip them into frames, and
you have a pleasing set of pictures of Washington and
Lee to adorn the walls of your home or office.

The scenes, photographed by University Photographer
A. Michael Philipps, are of the Washington College
Group, Lee Chapel, “Old George,’ and the Colonnade.

‘The package was the first mailing in the 1969-7o Annual
Giving Program. If for some reason you did not receive
your package of pictures, please write William C. Tyler,
Assistant Director of Development, Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia 24450.

