DECEMBER 1969

ALUMNUS

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNUS

VOLUME 44 NUMBER 6 DECEMBER 1969

CONTENTS

1 University Center Dedicated
3 Holton Makes History

4 Working Partners—Sometimes
5 Justices Are Honored

6 Moratorium Day at W&L

8 Financial Aid: Key to Diversity
10 Campus News

17 Fall Sports Roundup

18 Homecoming and Centennial
20 Name Your Candidate
22 Class Notes

COVER

Members of a student combo have ample room to practice
in the new University Center, which on October 4 was
dedicated, among other things, as a place “to have fun.”
See story on Page I.

EDITOR: William C. Washburn, ‘40
MANAGING EDITOR: Romulus T. Weatherman

ASSOCIATE EDITOR AND PHOTOGRAPHER:
A. Michael Philipps, '64

EDITORIAL ASSISTANT: Mrs. Joyce Carter

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC:
Fred Bartenstein, Jr., ‘41, President

John M. Jones, III, ’37, Vice-President
William C. Washburn, ‘40, Secretary

Charles F. Clarke, Jr., '38, “Treasurer

BOARD OF DIRECTORS: Fred Bartenstein, Jr., ‘41;
Upton Beall, 51; Joe F. Bear, ’33; Charles F. Clarke, Jr.,
'38; A. Christian Compton, 50; Warren H. Edwards, '39;
John M. Jones, III, 37; S. L. Kopald, Jr., '43; Edward
H. Ould, ’29; Emil L. Rassman, ‘41; Beauregard A.
Redmond, °55; Richard H. Turrell, °49.

Published in February, April, June, August, October, and
December by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms
3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia . Second class postage pe at
Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing privileges
at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP as required by Act of Con-

ess of Aug. 24, 1912, as amended by the Acts of March 3,
£9 , July 2, 1946 and June 11, 1960: The Washington and Lee
Alumnus is owned by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., and is entered as second class matter at the Post
Office in Lexington, vor 24450, with additional mailing
rivileges at Roanoke, rginia 24001. William C. Washburn
i editor and business manager. His address is Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450. There are no
bond, mortgage, or other security holders. The average num-
ber +! copies of each issue during the 12 preceding months
was 12,

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
     
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
    
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  

* a
"42
5
¥ tid
bes -
3
at

As autumn dissolved into winter, the University com-
munity could look back on three significant gatheri res
that provided fresh evidence that Washington and ee.
is on the march to better things. e

First there was Homecoming that brought the
fall class reunions on October 3-5. The major event was
the dedication of the new University Center, a facility
that is already improving the quality of campus life. T Lis
building, the result of a generous bequest, offers tangible
hope that other pressing physical needs can be met in
the same manner. Moreover, the success of reunions in
the fall confirmed the wisdom of the Alumni Board of,
Directors in deciding to make it possible for alumni to
return to campus more often by having both fall and
spring reunions. 4

Then on October 23-24-25 came a special conferen cee
for representatives of organized alumni chapters. This)
was the third such conference in four years, and similar
conferences are planned for ever-widening circles of |
alumni. This year’s conference was an intensive three-
day look at how the University is going about its busi-.
ness of educating young men, the variety of its challenges,
opportunities, strengths, shortcomings, and aspirations. —
An atmosphere of enthusiasm was generated as, in formé e
presentations and in informal discussions, the conferees”
learned about the University’s plans to improve the
physical plant, its financial condition and developmen ‘y
progress, its widening student recruiting efforts, its gTOW- |
ing financial aid program, the hard questions involved —
in studies of co-education and optimum size of the Uni- |
versity, current student attitudes and life styles, the status
of the academic program, major curriculum and calendar —
revisions, student affairs, athletics, and faculty develop-—
ment. 4
The consensus was that the conference accomplished
its main purpose of creating a better understanding be-—
tween the University and its alumni. This understanding -
is expected to be translated into an alumni constituency
throughout the mation upon whom the University can_
depend for friendship and active support. A full report ~
on the conference will be published later. a

Then on November 7-8-9 came the 15th annual Par-
ents’ Weekend, which brought to the campus more than
1,200 parents of students and guests. ‘hese parents were,
made privy to much of the information the alumni
delegates received and went away convinced that Was ;
ington and Lee, in times difficult for private colleges
bent on maintaining excellence, is doing the utmost for

* feu
oie

+
Po

their sons. Again it was an achievement of better com- —
munications between the University and an important
body of its constituency. 3
The forward march of Washington and Lee is thus —
a march in unison, making this an exciting time for any-
one to be in its ranks, a

ae

 

 

 

 

FEATURE 1

 

Dean John presides at dedication of University Center. Seated are President Huntley, Dr. Thomas, Mr. Henberg, and

Dr. Louis W. Hodges, who gave the invocation.

Center Dedicated to the Perpetuation of Good Fellowship

“This building is in truth a symbol of our solidarity
in this academic community and the promise of its con-
tinuance.”

Dr. John Newton Thomas, senior member of the
University Board of Trustees, spoke these words at the
dedication of the Early-Fielding Memorial Building, the
new $750,000 University Center which has already be-
come a focal point of student activities.

Dedication of the center was a major event of Home-
coming and Fall Class Reunion Weekend. The brief
ceremony was held at noon on October 4 on the lawn in
front of the new building which was fitted into the space
between the old Student Union and Evans Dining Hall
and incorporates parts of both of the older buildings.

Dean of Students Lewis G. John presided and paid
tribute to the “two gracious ladies who are no longer with
us, but who have made this building possible.”

He told of the generosity of Mrs. Annie Fielding
Early of Roanoke and her daughter, Mrs. Annie Early
Fairfax of Roanoke and Washington, D.C. Mrs. Early,
when she died in the 1920’s, left her estate to Washington
and Lee subject to a life income for Mrs. Fairfax. The
money was to be used for a chapel if the University had
none or for some other facility. Mrs. Fairfax was active

in her personal association with the University and the
people of Lexington, and for more than 40 years she
based her investment decisions on what she hoped would
materialize for Washington and Lee. When she died in
1964, her mother’s estate and much of her own personal
estate came to the University. The building was named
the Early-Fielding Memorial Building in recognition of
the two gifts, and the formal lounge in the old Student
Union was named the Fairfax Lounge and will eventu-
ally include a portrait of Mrs. Fairfax. As a whole, the
building is known as the Early-Fielding Memorial Build-
ing—University Center.

President Huntley welcomed guests and recognized
several friends of Mrs. Fairfax who were present: Mrs.
Emily Williams, David Bornet, Mrs. Garland Hopkins,
Sr., Sam Weems, Richard Pense, and John Jennings. He
also recognized Pen Clark, John Owen, Stanley James,
and Cliff Barberi, representatives of the firm of Clark,
Nexsen, and Owen of Lynchburg, architects for the
building, and Charles W. Barger of Barger & Sons of
Lexington, the contractor. Recognized also was Scais-
brook Abbot, Virginia artist, whose portrait of Earl
Mattingly, the late treasurer of the University, was un-
veiled in Evans Dining Hall the night before.

2. FEATURE

 

Dr. Thomas (above) listens attentively to other speakers during
ceremony. Student Body President Marvin Henberg (below)
accepts building on behalf of the students.

 

Dr. ‘Thomas formally accepted the building on behalf
of the Board of Trustees and the University. The text of
his remarks follows:

‘An institution which is independent of both church
and state is for this very reason completely dependent
upon the generosity of individuals, foundations, and
corporations. No group is more conscious of that than the
Trustees who have the ultimate responsibility for the
preservation and the development of this institution. So
we come today with a very deep feeling of gratitude to
express Our appreciation to donors and to all who had a
part in the construction and completion of this building.

“T think we can say that no donor could show a more
distinguished position of educational philanthropy than
that tradition begun by George Washington when he
gave his shares of canal stock to Liberty Hall Academy;
and even discounting my prejudice as an alumnus and
as a Board member I think it can equally truthfully be
said that no existing institution of higher education
could be more wise and fruitful for bestowing funds
upon than Washington and Lee University today.

“Certainly among the enduring and priceless tradi-
tions of this college and the inheritances of this college
is the good fellowship that we have always had in this
college community and that we are dedicating and _per-
petuating for the future. The promotion of that fellow-
ship is to be furthered by this building in a fresh and a
unique way. It is a place for students and faculty to have
fun, a place for them to gather and to chat and to come
to know each other informally and_ personally. This
building is in truth a symbol of our solidarity in this
academic community and the promise of its continuance.

“Students in the past had a real part in its plan. Stu-
dents of today and tomorrow will enjoy the privileges it
offers, and all of us will take pride in its preservation.
Speaking now for the Board of Trustees, I accept this
building in gratitude and in pride for Washington and
Lee.”

Marvin C. (Swede) Henberg of Laramie, Wy., presi-
dent of the Student Body, accepted the building on be-
half of the students. He said the building fills a long-
standing need and expressed three hopes: that it be-
comes in practice what in name it is—a true university
center with all aspects of the campus represented; that
no one in the student body ever forgets the generosity of
the donors in making the building possible; that the
students look upon the building not merely as a place of
entertainment but also as a place for discussions, meet-
ings, and exchange of ideas.

He said he was certain that the center will not fall
under an inflexible pattern of activities but as time passes
new uses of the center will be tested and old concerns
will probably be dropped. He said he also hoped that the
student body as a whole would be as creative in their
response to the development of center programs as those
who have already organized a program of folk singing
in the tavern.

Construction of the center began in the fall of 1967,
and most of its facilities went into use this fall. The
center is designed to accommodate a wide variety of rec-
reational, social, and cultural activities. Included are a
tavern which serves food and beer, a game room, a
brousing library, a chapel, student government meeting
rooms, a color television lounge, and other meeting space
and offices.

Ken Lane, a 64 graduate of W&L, is the center’s first
director and is adviser to a committee of students who
provide leadership for the center’s programs,

PEOPLES

Linwood Holton: Maker of Political History in Virgima

ee

A Washington and Lee alumnus has
won the governorship of Virginia in what
has been described as the greatest politi-
cal upset in the state in this century.

A. Linwood Holton, Jr., Class of ‘44,
Roanoke lawyer and a close friend of
President Nixon’s, became the first Re-
publican to be elected governor of Vir-
ginia since 1869. He also became the first
W&L alumnus the office since
William M. Tuck, a 1921 law graduate,
was elected in 1945.

Holton’s defeat of Democrat William
Battle was as much a personal victory as
it was a victory for the Republican party.
His Republican running mates for lieu-
tenant governor and attorney general lost

to win

to their Democratic opponents. The re-
turns indicated that many citizens voted
for governor and passed over the other
races. The result Holton ran
much stronger than his ticket mates and
gained a 69,000 majority over Battle, who

was that

before the election was believed to have
a slight edge.

Holton, 46, was already a_ popular
political figure in Virginia. In his first bid
for governor four years ago he received
45 per cent of the major party vote, the
largest number of votes ever cast for a
Republican in Virginia. He had also built
up political capital by managing the
campaign of the Republican candidate for
governor in 1961. Then in 1967-68 he
was a regional and state leader in Presi-
dent Nixon’s campaign before and after
the Republican convention in Miami,
earning prestige and influence in the new
Nixon Administration. (Holton was _ in-
strumental in arranging for Nixon to ad-
dress the annual Omicron Delta Kappa
convocation at Washington and Lee in
January, 1968, just
nounced his candidacy for president.)

before Nixon = an-

Political observers will be busy for
months analyzing how and why Holton
won. It is generally agreed that no great
issues divided the candidates. Holton was
definitely the beneficiary of the disarray
of the Democratic party caused by bitter
primary struggles. He was helped by his
President Nixon,
who visited in Virginia on his behalf. And

close association with
he campaigned himself harder than any
Republican in Virginia before him, call-
ing for two-party politics and combining
into one

his several campaign thrusts

theme: “It’s time for a change.”

 

Linwood Holton conducted the most vigorous Republican cam paign

for governor in the history of Virginia.

Charles McDowell, Jr. a ‘48 W&L
graduate, said of Holton’s theme in an
analysis in the Richmond Times-Dispatch:
“*“Time for a change’...was a sort of
all-purpose theme designed to appeal to
conservative Virginians who had _ been
voting Republican in national elections
for years; to other Virginians who had
been opposing the conservative Byrd or-
ganization for

years; to any Virginian

whose frustrations with local, state, na-

tional or international affairs had put
them in a mood to cast a vote against
things as they are.”

Holton was helped, too, by a winning
personality and a show of confidence that
never He was enthusiastically
received during a campaign appearance

Lee

flagged.

on the Washington and campus
sponsored by the Young Republicans, in
the course of which he said he was proud

of the support he was getting from young

 

Lin’s Winning Ways

the Lexington News-Gazelle:

 

The following is an excerpt from an editorial in the November 5 issue of

“Linwood Holton has an attractive personality and a nice sense of humor.
He sang in the choir of the Lexington Presbyterian Church when he was a stu-
dent at Washington and Lee. Early in the campaign, he set a meeting in
Lee Chapel that conflicted with the usual church choir practice on a Thursday
night. The choir director, Miss Mary Monroe Penick, wrote him a note and
chided him for this. When the choir met to practice that Thursday, Miss Penick
looked up and whom did she see in the bass section by Mr. Holton. It is a safe
bet that she voted for Holton as did quite a number of his personal friends here
who, like Miss Penick, are staunch Democrats.”

 

 

4 PEOPLE

people. He won 20 out of 22 mock elec-
tions on college campuses, including one
at Washington and Lee in which he col-
lected 288 votes to Battle’s 99.

Holton, a native of Big Stone Gap,
Va., traces his political involvement to the
age of 12 when he handed out fliers for
a family friend who was running for city
councilman. But he told a newspaper re-
porter before the election that if he lost
he would build up his law practice in
preparation for those expensive years his
children would be in college. He doubted
if he would try for governor in 1973.

Holton entered Washington and Lee
in 1941, but his college career was inter-
rupted by World War II. In 1943 he
joined the elite Navy V-12 program and
studied at the University of North Caro-
lina. He volunteered for submarine serv-
ice during the war, received his B. A.
degree cum laude from W&L in 1944
in abstentia, and returned as a special
student in 1946-47. He received his law
degree from Harvard Law School in
1949 and eventually moved to Roanoke
as a lawyer. He is now a member of the
firm of Eggleston, Holton, Butler &
Glenn.

At Washington and Lee, he was a
member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity
and Pi Alpha Nu, honorary society for
sophomores, the Glee Club, and on the
staffs of the Ring-tum Phi and the Calyx.

He has been active in alumni affairs of
the University, serving as a class agent
and as president of the Alumni Associa-
tion in 1964. In 1966 he was elected to
alumni membership in the Washington
and Lee circle of ODK. Living nearby,
he has made frequent visits to the camp-
us to speak or visit old friends.

He was married in 1953 to the former
Virginia Rogers of Roanoke, a 1946 gra.
duate of Wellesley. She has the _nick-
name “Jinks,” given her by a_ brother
who couldn’t pronounce Virginia. She
often hit the campaign trail with her
husband. They have four children: Vir-
ginia Tayloe, 13, Anne, 11, Linwood, III,
10, and Dwight, 4.

Holton will be inaugurated in Rich-
mond on January 17. Since the Civil War,
he is the sixth Washington and Lee alum-
nus to be Virginia’s chief executive. The
others were John Letcher, 1860-64; James
Lawson Kemper, 1874-78; George Camp-
bell Peery, 1934-38; James Huberi Price,
1938-42, and William Munford Tuck,
1946-50.

—
7 ¢ L ‘fi = ww

Charles and Josiah Rowe don’t always agree.

 

It’s a Working Partnership--Sometimes

The Rowe brothers of Fredericksburg,
Va., both W&L graduates, by dint of the
power at their disposal, are in a position
to “sew up” the city. Or so one would
think.

Josiah P. Rowe, Class of ’48, is mayor
of the city. And he owns and operates
with his brother, Charles §. Rowe, Class
of 45, an afternoon daily the Free-Lance-
Star. Hence, they could be a kind of
two-man power structure. The trouble is
they don’t always agree. And they seem
to like it that way.

A recent feature story on the brothers
by Bob Lindsey of the Richmond Times-
Dispatch, distributed by the Associated
Press, gave a good example of how the
brothers operate.

Mayor Josiah Rowe went off to Wash-
ington to tell two congressional com-
mittees why he favors construction of the
Salem Church Dam. Meanwhile, Charles
Rowe was back home writing an edi-
torial which said: ‘The _ pork-barrelers
made two more trips to Capitol Hill this
week to plead for planning funds as the
first step in building an unnecessarily
large, unnecessarily wasteful dam on the
Rappahannock River.”

Josiah was dismayed, but not sur-
prised because his own paper, under the
editorship of brother Charles, has flown
in his face before.

Lindsey's story went on:

“In 1949, when the brothers took
over the paper after the death of their
father, both men marked off their ter-
ritories. Charles would run the news-
room, and Josiah would attend to the
business side.

“In addition to his work at the news-
paper, Josiah, 41, began working the

political chicken-dinner circuit. He served
eight years on the school board, then ran
for mayor in 1964. The vote was close,
but he won, and won again in 1968.

oes

Family tradition had a lot to do
with it,’ he said. His father, grandfather,
and great-grandfather were mayors.

“Charles, 44, the editor, stays pretty
close to the paper. For the most part he
cares for neither politics nor chicken
dinners.

“*T abhor those things. I used to go
to them, but I just don’t want to and I
don’t have the time . I used to be
real nice and sweet, but the older I get
the franker I get,’ he said.

“In his politics, the mayor has often
had to do without the support of the
newspaper he manages.

‘“ “Basically, Charles is more liberally
inclined than I am; I’m a Virginia Demo-
crat,’ said Josiah. ‘Charles may show me
an editorial and say, “Is this the right
way to put it?” I say, “Yes, I disagree,
but that’s the right way to put it’’.’

eee

If it ever came to a show down, I
would defer to the editor—we both have
the goal of putting out a good news-
paper.’

“The editor describes the relation-
ship this way: ‘He'll talk with me and
perhaps argue, but I make the final de-
cisions. There’s no damn way to vote on
the thing, and that’s good because with
him being in politics it’s best that he
doesn’t have the final voice.’

onan

To top it all off,’ said the editor,
‘a former mayor wrote a letter to the
paper, saying the chief pork barreler 1
was referring to was my brother. Hell,

’ 9

he wasn’t telling me anything’.

PEOPLES

Two Law Alumni Honored for Contributions to Fustice

The School of Law paid special tri-
bute on November 15 to two of its alumni
who retired in August from the Supreme
Court of Appeals of Virginia.

Chief Justice John W. Eggleston of
Norfolk and Justice Archibald C. Buch-
anan of Tazewell were guests of honor at
a reception and dinner at the University,
and each was cited “in recognition of
his eminent contribution to the advance-
ment of justice under law.”

The dinner, a formal occasion, was
held in Evans Dining Hall.
Attending the special event were

many members of the Virginia judiciary
and bar, including Justice A. M. Har-
man, Jr., of Pulaski, who received his law
degree from Washington and Lee in 1944
and was appointed to succeed Justice
Buchanan on the Supreme Court of Ap-
peals.

The reception was held at the home
of Roy Lee Steinheimer, Jr., dean of the
School of Law, who presided at the din-
University Huntley, a
former dean of the School of Law, wel-

ner. President

 

Justice John W. Eggleston

comed the guests. Prof. Charles P. Light,
Jr., retired dean of the School of Law,
was in charge of arrangements and pre-
sented the citations to Judges Eggleston
and Buchanan.

Together, the honorees served a total
of 57 years on Virginia’s highest court.
Judge Eggleston joined the court in 1935
1958.
Judge Buchanan had been a justice since
1946,

Judge Eggleston holds four degrees
from Washington and Lee. He received
the B.A. in 1906, the M.A. in 1907, the
LL.B. in 1910, and the honorary LL.D.
in 1949.

He practiced law in

and was named chief justice in

Norfolk from
1910 to 1935 and was a state senator in
the Virginia General Assembly from 1932
to 1935. While a senator, he was chairman
of the legislative committee that drafted
the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control
Act.

Justice Buchanan received the A.B.
from Hampden-Sydney College and _ his
law degree from Washington and Lee in

1914. In
stowed upon him the honorary LL.D

1949, the University also be-

degree.

He practiced law in Tazewell County
from 1915 to 1927 and served as mayor
of Tazewell from 1917 to 1921. From 1927
to 1946, he served as judge of the 22nd
Judicial Circuit of Virginia.

Among the approximately 100 guests
at the dinner were members of the Su-
preme Court of Appeals, judges of the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit, which also sits in Richmond;
judges of U.S. District Courts sitting in
Virginia, judges of the Virginia Trial
Courts of Records who are alumni of the
Washington and Lee School of Law, mem-
bers of the Virginia Board of Bar Ex-
aminers, deans of the other Virginia law
schools, presidents of the Virginia State
Bar and the Virginia State Bar Associa-
tion, members of the Rockbridge County-
Bar
the law faculty of Washington and Lee,

Buena Vista-Lexington Association,

and representative members of the stu-
dent body of the School of Law.

 

Justice Archibald C. Buchanan

©. FEATURE

October 15 Symposium Brings
Forth a Wide Range of Views
On What To Do About Vietnam

By Robert G. Holland
Director of Public Relations

A non-partisan symposium was the main vehicle by
which Washington and Lee students chose to participate
in the October 15 Vietnam Moratorium Day. There was
also some petition-signing, folk-singing, and small-group
discussion, but an anti-war march which some students
had wished to stage failed to materialize. The fact that
the Amazin’ Mets were in the process of demolishing the
vaunted Orioles at the time some students had scheduled
the march was said to have doubtless detracted some
support.

However, Pete Zimmerman, a junior from Garden City,
N.Y. and one of the moratorium coordinators here, dis-
claimed any connection between the official leadership of
the day’s activities and the abortive afternoon march. He
said the intent of the student moratorium group at
Washington and Lee had been somewhat different from
that of many of the groups on other campuses. At W&L,
the goal was to involve the Lexington community and
all shades of opinion on the war in a rational. considera-
tion of issues. And many believe the symposium and fol-
low-up discussion groups to a large extent accomplished
that purpose.

Lee Chapel, which can seat 600 persons, was nearly
filled to capacity for the symposium, which began at 10
a.m. and lasted for close to three hours. W&L students
were in predominance, but also present were some stu-
dents from neighboring women’s colleges, some faculty
members, and some townspeople. The speakers for the
occasion ranged the gamut of opinions on Vietnam. No
one was very happy about the current state of affairs, but
a unanimity of opinion about what to do definitely did
not exist.

Opinions ranged from Victory Now! to Immediate
Withdrawal! to phased withdrawal.

Speakers were the Rev. Charles Swezey, assistant
pastor of the Lexington Presbyterian Church; Col.
George M. Brooke, Jr., head of the history department at
Virginia Military Institute: William H. Mcllhaney, II,
a W&L freshman from Roanoke, and the following W&L
faculty members—Dr. Milton Colvin, professor of politi-
cal science; James Loesel, political science instructor, and
Dr. Harrison J. Pemberton, Jr., professor of philosophy.

What turned out to be the middle ground in the dis-
cussion was occupied by Dr. Colvin, a former Army
Ranger, decorated in World War II, who said he was

originally opposed to American intervention in Vietnam,
then supported the American presence, and now is con-
vinced the war has become a “national tragedy” and the
U.S. should withdraw.

However, Dr. Colvin cautioned, “the question is how
dlo we extricate ourselves?’ He said this country should
pull out, “but not in a pell-mell fashion, not unilaterally,
not immediately.”

The reasons for gradualism rather than immediate
pullback, he said, include: the necessity of protecting
American fighting men from enemy attacks during with-
drawal operations; the obligation to the South Vietna-
mese allies who are giving their lives in the conflict; the
fact that the U.S., in an immediate pull-back, would be
totally abandoning a nation for which there is still hope
of becoming a free and independent state; and the pos-
sibility that hasty American withdrawal could lead to the
rise to power of political demagogues in this country
(which Dr. Colvin described as being attached to “para-
noic nit-wit groups’) who believe that treason exists in
high places.

On the other hand, Loesel, a political science instruc-
tor, advocated unilateral withdrawal. He contended that
a move by the U.S. to stop the bloodshed, an action he
asserted to be within this country’s power, would be a
“positive, creative” action, “calling for our best efforts.”

He said the “domino theory”, holding that American
withdrawal would lead to Communist takeovers in other
Southeast Asian countries, is a view of the world “which
is serving us badly in the developing areas of the world.”
The view postulates a monolithic Communist conspir-
acy, directed from Moscow, which actually has been
modified since the immediate post-World War II period,
he noted.

Loesel called withdrawal the best route for avoiding
nuclear war in the long run, and for devoting resources
to pressing needs at home. He said the argument that the
U.S. should stay in Vietnam because “we have never lost
a war,” is sheer arrogance. “We must learn to live as
fallible beings,’ he said. The instructor also contended
that the U.S. has few “long-range interests in that part of
the Asian continent.”

A military point of view was projected by Col. Brooke,
who contended that American escalation of military acti-
vity in Vietnam resulted from stepped-up infiltration and
subversion by Communist forces.

Col. Brooke, who agreed to speak at the Lee Chapel
session in response to efforts by the W&L students to get
VMI involvement in the non-partisan discussion, said, “it
would be very foolish to set a deadline to get out unilater-
ally. And, he added, at the present time, a form of “hys-
teria’ seems to be gripping the country with regard to
Vietnam policy. He said demonstrators against the war
in this country are giving encouragement to Hanoi.

“Nothing is wrong with demonstrations. I think they
should be nonviolent,” but, he added, “why don’t we

[.N.L—~NN
Ky eS)

GW) Sp, HOME,

 

 

“Say—just what is Fred’s thing, anyway?”

Courtesy of the College Board Review

have demonstrations against North Vietnam? Why don’t
we have demonstrations for the release of our flyers who
have been shot down? Why don’t we have demonstrations
against the inhumane acts of the North Vietnamese? Why
do we always demonstrate against ourselves as though we
had some sort of massive guilt complex? Frankly, I don’t
think it makes much sense.”

The VMI professor said it is true that 39,000 Ameri-
can men have lost their lives in Vietnam, and the loss
of each is to be regretted, but, he said, the figure should
be kept in perspective. During World War I, Italy, with
a population of 35 million lost 600,000 persons. ‘Thus,
proportionately, our losses have not been as great as they
sometimes appear, he contended.

Mcllhaney, who has been holding John Birch Society
meetings on campus this fall, largely recited the philoso-
phies of Robert Welch, Birch founder. He theorized that
both Russia and the U.S. were involved in a Communist
plot to keep the war going in order to drain the resources
of freedom seekers. He said American forces are being
compelled to fight under official handicaps for that rea-
son. Giving the John Birch line, he contended that the
war should be won promptly and conclusively, an ulti-
matum should be issued to Hanoi and Peking not to in-
terfere in South Vietnam, a sternly anti-Communist gov-
ernment should be set up in Saigon, and the U.S. should
get out of the United Nations and “the UN should get
out of the U.S.”

Mr. Swezey generally raised the large questions which
he believed should be asked about the war. One of his
major questions suggested for application to the war was:
“Is the good intended as great as the evil inflicted?”

One of the most serious moral issues to be resolved,
Mr. Swezey suggested, is whether the supposedly good in-
tensions of our involvement in the war are proportionate
to the thousands of deaths and the corruption. ‘‘Perhaps
the costs have been too high and we should choose an
alternative. It seems to me that is the issue,” he said.
Other questions include: War may be justified as a

FEATURE :7

necessary evil if it is waged under a legitimate authority—
is South Vietnam a legitimate authority? Is the war Con-
stitutional? War can be justified if it is waged in the
interest of self-defense—is the Vietnam War being waged
in self-defense?

Dr. Pemberton pointed out the “obvious ambiguities”
of Vietnam. Intended purposes, he noted, have often pro-
duced opposite effects. For example: the bombing of
North Vietnam has blostered the will of the enemy to
fight; our intent to aid South Vietnam with economic
resources has led to “immense corruption,” and “we are
protecting a country by destroying it.”

He raised the question of whether our confidence that
eventually a “collective wisdom” will show through and
the good will of America will be manifest is really justi-
fied.

During the afternoon, small discussion sessions in-
dividually featuring the morning’s speakers met with
varying success. At one session, no one showed up, but at
some of the others rather large and lively groups came to
debate the issues. On the evening of the 15th in the Uni-
versity Center, students held a rally, complete with folk
singing.

An additional feature of the moratorium activities or-
ganized by Washington and Lee students was the visita-
tion by W&L students to government classes of Lexington
and Natural Bridge High Schools. ‘Teams of students, in-
cluding diverse viewpoints on the war, held discussion
sessions with the high school students. The activity had
been cleared by the school’s administrations.

In response to a student petition, the Washington and
Lee Faculty Executive Committee had adopted the fol-
lowing statement, concurred in by the full faculty, on the
moratorium: “In view of the activities scheduled for
October 15, the Executve Committee wishes to remind
each member of the faculty of his option to dismiss
classes and to rearrange test schedules for justifiable edu-
cational purposes.”

In effect, the statement merely reminded the faculty
of a privilege they have at any time in a school year—to
dismiss a class for a visiting university lecture which
might be educational, for example. The faculty also had
received a petition from 60 students who said they be-
lieved classes should be held and attended on October
15 and that “the scheduled protest is futile and in con-
flict with our rights to attend classes.”’

Many teachers resolved the problem by holding classes
for those students who wished to attend, while not pun-
ishing students who wished to take part in the symposium
at Lee Chapel. In contrast with many other campuses,
there was no request or demand here that all classes be
cancelled at the university.

Approximately 50 Washington and Lee students
traveled to Washington to participate in the three-day
anti-war demonstrations there in November, but there
were no activities on the campus,

8: PROGRESS

Financial Aid is the Key to a Well-Rounded Student Body

“Nobody ought to eliminate the pos-
sibility of a college education for himself
solely because of financial reasons. Stu-
dents who need assistance to attend col-
lege can find it if they begin looking
early and seek guidance from authorita-
tive sources.”

John E. Mehl, director of student fi-
nancial aid and placement at Washing-
ton and Lee, stressed this point in an-
nouncing that the University’s financial
aid program for students passed the $500,-
000 mark this year and has tripled in size
in the past 10 years. He went on:

“At Washington and Lee, we attempt
through our aid program to get academic-
ally qualified students who could not
otherwise afford to attend college. Another
objective of the program is to preserve
and promote diversity in the student
body. Because of increases in tuition,
private colleges must combat the danger
of pricing themselves out of the market
for lower and middle income students.”

During the 1969-70 year, the University
is distributing $526,388 in various forms
of aid to 329 undergraduates and 62 law
students. This includes $373,087 in Uni-
versity funds and $153,301 in federal
funds. Undergraduates are receiving $452,-
026 in aid, and law students $74,362.

 

A year ago, the University aided 306
undergraduates and 65 law students in
the amount of $468,430. That figure in-
cluded $334,155 in University funds and
$134,275 in federal funds.

“For the past three years,” Mehl said,
“we have been able to meet 100 per cent
of the need of financial aid applicants as
determined by the College Scholarship
Service. But added financial aid funds
certainly will be needed if we are to
continue to be able to do that well in
the future.”

President Huntley has emphasized
that the University is determined to in-
crease its financial aid resources through
every means possible, consistent with the
University’s position as a private, non-
sectarian institution. Washington and
Lee began participating in federal stu-
dent-aid programs four years ago, and this
helped bolster an already sizable program
from private sources. The University will
continue to take advantage of federal
student-aid programs as they become
available, but President Huntley has said
he is hopeful the major portion of the
University’s financial aid needs can be
met through private contributions.

‘The University participates in the Col-
lege Scholarship Service, a nonprofit pro-

gram of the College Entrance Examina-
tion Board, which provides a uniform
method of analyzing each student’s need
so that college aid resources can be al-
located fairly.

Parents file confidential statements of
assets and liabilities and the figure a

family can afford to pay toward college 4

costs is computed from this information.

 

2

Fy

The system takes into account such fac

tors as medical expenses, number of de-
pendents, and family hardships in deter-
mining a fair amount of need.
Increasingly at Washington and.Lee,
and many other institutions, financial aid
is being awarded in “‘packages,” Mehl said.
The “package” consists of a combination

of aid, including a scholarship or grant, —

campus job, and loan. For example, a
student who needed $1,200 in aid might
receive $600 as a direct scholarship or
grant, while securing a $300 loan and

earning $300 in a campus job. “Packag- 4

ing” enables a college to stretch its aid

dollars to cover an increased number of —

oa

needy students.

The items in a financial aid “pack-
age” vary in size from the freshman to
senior years, with freshmen receiving 75
per cent of their aid as a grant and seniors
25 per cent as a grant. Over the four

kis
APO hits

Ps RR ‘

é
s
?

 

years, students now receive an average of
50 per cent of their aid as a grant. Those
with superior records may receive even a
larger portion of their aid in grant form.

“Another significant trend is that fi-
nancial aid is being based increasingly on
need, rather than solely on academic ex-
cellence. Once a student has been ad-
mitted, he may qualify for aid regardless
of his position in the class,’’ Mehl said.

Many aid systems also recognize that a
family does not have to be at the “pov-
erty level” in order to need financial help
for college expenses.

The University’s financial aid pro-
eram includes:

—Scholarships awarded as direct grants
from endowed University scholarship
funds or from the principal of capital
gifts designated for that purpose. The an-
nual value of these grants ranges from
S100 to $2,000.

—Loans either directly from University
resources or through the National De-
fense Student Loan Program. Such loans
carry an interest rate of 3 per cent per
annum on the unpaid balance, beginning
after the student has left Washington and
Lee or when he has terminated his course
of study. In addition, the University is a
member of United States Aid Funds, Inc.,
which provides low-cost educational loans,
and many students obtain low-cost loans
from hometown banks through the Guar-
anteed Student Loan Programs of their
home states, under the 1965 Higher Edu-
cation Act.

—Educational Opportunity Grants pro-
vided under terms of the 1965 Higher
Education Act make available direct
grants to a limited number of students
with exceptional financial need. Grants
range from $200 to $1,000 per year.

—Work-Study and other part-time em-
ployment constitute an additional source
of aid. Freshmen are not encouraged to
try part-time work, but upperclassmen
may be assigned jobs on campus under
the College Work-Study Program, and
they are given priority for other campus
and off-campus jobs for which they
qualify,

But despite the variety and growth of
the forms of aid available, Mehl said, it is
obvious that the University is going to
need additional money in order to recruit
more able students from racially and
economically disadvantaged backgrounds.
Ihe University would also like to be able
to offer more and larger scholarships to
students with superior academic records.

 

 

PROGRESS

10: CAMPUS

 

a. |

.

a]

Scenes such as this when Martin Agronsky addressed the SIPA
convention will be moved to the University of Georgia.

SIPA Program Is Transferred to the University of Georgia

Management and sponsorship of the
Southern Interscholastic Press Associa-
tion (SIPA) has been shifted from Wash-
ington and Lee to the University of Geor-
gia by agreement between the two univer-
sities,

Founded at Washington and Lee in
1925, SIPA brings editors of high school
publications from~Southern and border
states to an annual convention at which
leaders in the communications media
speak and evaluate student work. About
1,200 persons annually have attended con-
ventions in Lexington in recent years.

Details of the shift of sponsorship to
the Henry W. Grady School of Journalism
at the University of Georgia’s Athens
campus were announced by Prof. Paxton
Davis, director of the Lee Memorial
Journalism Foundation, which has spon-
sored SIPA. Letters. announcing the
change were mailed in September to fac-
ulty advisers and others connected with
the association.

Davis said that under the W&L-Geor-
gia agreement “no fundamental changes”
are planned in the SIPA programs and
policies. Present members will be eligible
for continued membership. The spring
SIPA convention will be held at Georgia.

In his letter, Davis said that “for
some years now,” all persons involved in
sponsorship and management of SIPA
“have been concerned about its growing
size, the complexity of the problems that
its size in turn created, and the admini-
strative difficulties that came with the
developing success of the SIPA program.
Washington and Lee is a small institution
in a small town, and for more than a dec-
ade the annual spring SIPA convention
has taxed to the utmost the facilities of
both.”

“Our alternatives seemed to us to be
limited,” he added. “One was to impose
drastic restrictions on attendance at SIPA.
Another was to move the convention to a
summer date. Obviously either would
have altered radically the character of
the association. Realizing this, we slowly
turned our thinking to a third possibility:
that we transfer SIPA to a larger institu-
tion with greater and more flexible facili-
ties,”

Davis said the decision was reached
“only reluctantly and after long hours of
thought and consideration,” but he added
that “it is our conviction that only by
transferring the program to a larger in-
stitution can its objectives be furthered

and its continued growth assured.”

WX&L, he said, has every reason to look
on the move “with confidence.” The
Henry W. Grady School is “outstanding,”
its faculty has broad experience in com-
munications, and the Athens campus is
well suited for increasing opportunities
for an improved convention, Davis said.

The first convention of SIPA was
held on April 5 and 6, 1926. Conventions
were held annually until 1942 when travel
restrictions and other war-time difficulties
caused a suspension of activities until the
1946-47 school year. In recent years, dis-
tinguished journalists who spoke to the
high school editors at the Lexington con-
vention included James Reston, Marquis
Childs, Howard K. Smith, and Tom
Wicker.

Push for Gym Addition

The University is seeking bids on a
major addition to its 54-year-old Doremus
Gymnasium in the hope that construction
can begin early in 1970, President Hunt-
ley announced in October.

Architects’ final specifications on the
project were delivered to the University
in early October, and the Board of Trus-
tees authorized the immediate seeking of
contractors’ bids.

Earlier this year, the Trustees had
urged swift completion of plans to provide
adequate indoor facilities to support
Washington and Lee’s broad program of
12 intercollegiate sports and extensive
intramural and physical education pro-
grams.

President Huntley University
officials are hopeful that the large addi-
tion, which will triple the existing us-
able floor space in Doremus Gymnasium
from 40,000 to 120,000 square feet, can
be achieved at a cost of slightly more than
$2 million. The figure would include
construction costs, site preparation, equip-
ment, and several supporting engineer-
ing projects.

Washington

said

and Lee has approxi-
mately one-half of the needed funds in
hand or firmly committed. In putting the
job out for bids, the President said the
Trustees expressed confidence in the Uni-
versity’s ability to attract the additional
funds necessary.

“Our need for a better gymnasium 1s
one of long-standing, and planning for
this project has been under way for many
months,” the President said. ‘““We are pre-
pared to move as rapidly as possible to

put these new facilities into use within
two years,”

Washington and Lee has not under-
taken a general fund-raising campaign in
support of the gymnasium, but instead
has sought major gifts from a_ selected
number of alumni and friends who have
indicated a special interest in assisting
with the project.

“We are able to move somewhat in-
dependently of other planning in regard
to the gymnasium addition,” the President
said. “However, in terms of its impor-
tance to total University development, the
gymnasium plays a critical role. We hope
that this project will be the first in a series
of achievements vital to Washington and
Lee’s future.”

In addition to the athletic facilities,
Washington and Lee is faced with the
necessity of soon providing better quarters
for its main undergraduate library, the
School of Law, and School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics. President Hunt-
ley said that planning in each area is
well under way and that important initial
progress in funding these projects has
been made.

Part of the planning process, the Presi-
dent pointed out, involves development
of a general scheme for proper use of ex-
tensive unimproved campus acreage for
new building sites, principally the School
of Law and projected new upperclass stu-
dent housing.

Architects for the gymnasium addition
are the firm of Clark, Nexsen and Owen
of Lynchburg. The firm also designed the
$750,000 Early-Fielding Memorial Uni-
versity Center which was dedicated Oc-
tober 4 at Homecoming.

Among facilities planned for the new
gymnasium are a basketball arena seat-
ing up to 3,400 persons for intercollegiate
events, a new swimming pool, squash and
handball courts, team rooms, locker ac-
commodations, and numerous special-
purpose rooms for wrestling, weight-lift-
ing, and other sports and recreational
activities. The existing facilities in Dore-
mus will be retained and improved, with
extensive remodeling to facilitate merger
with the expanded area.

W&L Education Report

The University has begun a new
journalistic service to high schools in the
Middle-Atlantic and Southern region of
the nation. The service is a paper called
the Education Report of Washington and

The Washington and Lee University
EDUCATION REPORT

Robert G. Holland, Editor

 

A Publa Relawan . Washington and Lee University . Lex m Vag

October, tgfg
Vel t, Nee

What Causes Scudent Unrest?
WEL Education Keport

‘ ty < TRA 2 ptm suggested by BD

“tele at Man” The boric tetra “And won Leerw soreechone @ happeniag beer. b

voms f ‘teow whe m de woe, Me foe” Comeremeere wore — adel te wee om legrdewoe puxbhdhog
: 4 ‘ ‘ mitbent having tre band Amowtedge Mell

The Beoxd repeat combeemed the wee od vevkewe by sndents 00 gotn thew crate t tnd «ated that stimdents
: Lupe The coed tt pen ol commonecetion @as 2 reape

vide camba wamcerity. aert baum decemcy af the \avt mapwity

thowewes, “th 4 : we baw videyvural o wm trem wedoas whee el enable te Gee

Lee University, edited by Robert G. Hol-
land, the University’s director of public
relations and formerly education writer
for the Richmond-Times Dispatch.

The paper is intended to serve as a
communications link between the college
and high school levels and is being sent
to student newspapers and literary maga-
zines. Approximately 2,000 high schools
were included in the initial mailing of
the Education Report. The first issue went
out in October and contained a report on
some of the causes of student unrest and
a poem from a Brooklyn, N.Y., high
school.

The service will include articles by
University specialists on topics, such as
student financial aid or youth activities,
which are of interest to high school stu-
dents. Also a major part of the service
will consist of reprinting examples of ex-
cellent high school journalistic work and
creative literary efforts for distribution to
all participating schools. Thus the serv-
ice will be a medium of exchange of ideas
among secondary schools as well as being
a source of information about college life.

Participating high school’s are being
asked to send copies of their student pub-
lications to Washington and Lee’s Office
of Public Relations, which is operating
the service. The initial mailing included
schools in Virginia, the District of Colum-
bia, Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky,
Tennessee, North Carolina, South Caro-
lina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Missis-
sippi, Texas, Arkansas, and Louisiana,
plus a sampling of schools in New Eng-
land, the Midwest, and West. Current
plans are to print the Education Report

CAMPUS -11

six or seven times during the school year,
depending on the material available and
the interest in it.

New Name for C-School

The 63-year-old School of Commerce
and Administration at Washington and
Lee has been renamed the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics.

“The name was changed in order to
reflect accurately the modern scope of
offerings in the school and the school’s
role in higher education,” Dr. Edward C.,
Atwood, Jr., dean of the school, explained.

Approval of the name change was
given by the school’s faculty and by the
University Board of Trustees at its Oc-
tober meeting in Lexington.

Dr. Lewis W. Adams, who retired from
administrative duties July 1 after 20 years
as dean of the school, had proposed that
the School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics would be a fitting name for the
school, Dean Atwood said.

In addition, two name changes in
departments within the school were ap-
proved:

@ The Department of Commerce has
been redesignated the Department of Ad-
ministration.

@ The Department of Political Science
has been redesignated the Department of
Politics.

All three changes resulted from the
University’s self-study of 1964-66, from
faculty discussions, from talks with in-
terested students, and alumni, and from
consideration at the administrative level.

“It seemed important to maintain the
historical identity of the School of Com-
merce for which our alumni and students
bear respect, loyalty, and devotion, and
the establishment of which brought the
realization of General Lee’s dream,” Dr.
Adams said.

“At the same time, it is most fitting to
give recognition to the wishes of the
faculties and to the graduates of the de-
partments of economics and __ politics.
Moreover, the title “Department of Ad-
ministration” corresponds with current
usage and connotes more precisely the
aims and character of our present curri-
culum,” the retired dean said.

Departments of accounting, admini-
stration, economics, and politics are in-
cluded within the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics. It is the oldest
commerce school in the South and one of
the oldest in the nation.

12;CAMPUS

 

 

’ ;
ea ‘ 7
S
Sua ‘
ee
ee
my *
a é »
an ?
eo ee
t Ris

D.U. Homecoming Gift

For the second year in a row the
Washington and Lee chapter of Delta
Upsilon social fraternity donated $100
toward the Lexington-Rockbridge County
United Fund instead of building a Home-
coming display.

The fraternity said in a news release
that it appeared the idea could spread to
other fraternities. ‘““The Homecoming dis-
plays are usually bulky objects of two-by-
fours, chicken wire, and tissue paper that
end up costing well over $100, and last
year the D.U.’s felt that this $100 could
be put to more useful and permanent
work through a donation to the United
Fund,” the fraternity said.

Delta Upsilon displayed for Home-
coming this year a four-by-eight-foot ply-
wood “check” made out to the Lexing-
ton-Rockbridge County United Fund.

Gifts Near $2 Million

Gifts to Washington and Lee totaled
51,986,685 during the 1968-69 fiscal year.

Mrs. Munger prepares another shipment of Dr. Crenshaw’s history : : . :
of Washington and Lee. Gifts increased over the previous year in
all categories, including the Alumni Fund,
Parents Fund, foundations, corporations,

General Lee’s College: A History on the Go

 

Other bookstores have temporary
best sellers (Portnoy’s Complaint
and the like). But the Washington
and Lee Bookstore has a_ built-in,
steady best seller. And it is likely
to remain so.

Since its publication six months
ago, 1,328 copies of General Lee’s
College, Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw’s his-
tory of the University, have been
sold through the bookstore. On the
day of publication, May 9, the book-
store sold 135 copies in an hour at
an alumni reception for Dr. Cren-
shaw, professor of history and Uni-
versity historian. Since then every
mail has brought more orders for
the book from alumni, members of
their families, friends of the Uni-
versity, and Civil War buffs.

As might be expected, commence-
ment last June, Mother’s Day, and
Father’s Day were peaks in requests
for the history. And, although the
bookstore was officially closed dur-
ing the summer, the staff was kept
busy packing and shipping.

It is a well-travelled book. The
bookstore has mailed copies to pur-
chasers in 37 states and in such dis-

tant places as Japan, Australia, Im-
man, Puerto Rico, and Vietnam.
Virginia, Texas, Florida, New
York, and Pennsylvania, in order,
lead among the states from which
orders have been received.

Dr. Crenshaw, with characteristic
courtesy and graciousness, has com-
plied with every request for auto-
graphing. Hardly a book goes out
without his signature. Fortunately,
the strong right arm of his tennis-
playing days holds up very well.
We on the bookstore staff are fas-
cinated by Dr. Crenshaw’s exten-
sive memory. He seems to remem-
ber nearly every alumnus for whom
he autographs a copy of the book.
His reminiscences, as he scribbles
away in my office, have been a de-
lightful bonus for us.

The number of reorders for extra
copies has been a pleasant surprise.
One gentleman uses the book as his
standard birthday gift to members
of his family. Fortunately for Wash-
ington and Lee, he has a large
family!

—Bretry MUNGER
Bookstore Manager

 

 

and estates, Farris P. Hotchkiss, director
of development, reported. The largest
category of giving was estates, which
amounted to $677,100.

The annual report listed the following
additional sources of gifts to the Uni-
versity: Alumni Fund, $301,360; Parents
Fund, $40,436; general-purpose founda-
tions, $342,960; Virginia Foundation for
Independent Colleges, $97,547; corpora-
tions, $37,217; other gifts from alumni,
$461,931; and other gifts from non-alum-
ni, $28,133. Total gifts were more than
double the total amount for the 1967-68
fiscal year, Hotchkiss said.

“Last year was a very good year for
Washington and Lee in this area,” Hotch-
kiss said. “Because of the interest of many
people, we have realized a significant in-
crease over previous years in gift support.
However, with the challenges to privately-
supported higher education and the costs
of education ever increasing, this per-
formance will have to be improved upon
in future years.

“Gifts income has been increasing
steadily at Washington and Lee, although
as a percentage of the University’s over-
all costs of operation, it is still not taking
a greatly enlarged part in University fi-
nancing.”

Hotchkiss noted that gifts have moved
from approximately 12.5 per cent of
Washington and Lee’s operating income
in 1960-61 to about 15 per cent during the
past year. However, the total operating
income has more than doubled in that
time—from $2.2 million to $5.1 million.

New Book by Gilreath

Dr. Esmarch S. Gilreath, professor of
chemistry and head of the department,
is the author of a new chemistry textbook
for collegiate use.

His Elementary Quantitative Chemis-
try was published by W. H. Freeman and
Co. of San Francisco. The book is de-
signed as the basis for a one-semester
course in €:ementary quantitative analy-
sis on either a freshman or sophomore
level, depending on the chemistry back-
ground of students. The materials in-
cluded constitute complete classroom and
laboratory programs.

This is Dr. Gilreath’s fourth text-
book. A fifth, a textbook on inorganic
chemistry, is scheduled to be published
next year by McGraw-Hill Book Co.

Dr. Gilreath joined the Washington
and Lee faculty in 1946, and he has
headed the chemistry department since
1955. He received his Ph.D. at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina.

Spencer Writes Text

A textbook for upper-level college
geology courses has been written by Dr.
Edgar W. Spencer, professor of geology
and head of the department, and pub-
lished by McGraw-Hill Book Co. The
book is entitled Introduction to the
Structure of the Earth.

The text is designed for use in struc-
tural geology courses in which the em-
phasis is placed on_ basic principles.
‘Treatments of selected aspects of re-
gional structural geology, the structure of
ocean basins, the earth’s interior, and
tectonics are included.

It is Dr. Spencer’s fourth textbook.
His other college texts deal with physical
and historical geology and earth science.

Dr. Spencer is a 1953 graduate of
Washington and Lee; he received his
Ph. D. in major-structural geology from
Columbia in 1957. He was an instructor
at Hunter College for two years before
joining the Washington and Lee faculty
in 1957. He became head of the depart-
ment two years later.

An Article by Phillips

An article by Dr. Charles F. Phillips,
Jr., professor of economics, appeared in
the November 6 issue of Public Utilities
Fortnightly, a magazine published by
Public Utilities Reports, Inc.

The article was in an issue prepared
especially for distribution at the 72nd
annual meeting of the United States In-
dependent Telephone Association in
Washington, D.C. The article is an analy-
sis of recommendations of the President's
Task Force on Telecommunications as
they pertain to domestic common car-
riers.

COSIP Physics Fellows

A post-doctoral research program is
something you would not expect to find
at a small liberal arts college whose only
graduate division is a School of Law. But
Washington and Lee University has a
post-doctoral program getting under way
this fall in the physics department, thanks
to the College Science Improvement Pro-
gram (COSIP) of the National Science
Foundation. The NSF gave W&L a grant
of about $200,000 two years ago to streng-
then its natural and social sciences de-
partments. The physics post-doctoral pro-
gram is one of the latest of several im-
provements which have been made _ pos-
sible by the grant. The NSF program is
intended to help bolster the science de-
partments of small colleges. There is a
separate program for the large univer-
sities.

The physics department decided to
request post-doctoral fellows for several
reasons, according to Dr. Edward F. Tur-
ner, Jr., professor of physics and head of
the department.

“We felt a need for the post-doctoral
program to help our students see what
physics is all about by observing research
in progress,” he said. “Also, we like for
our staff to be involved in research be-
cause a good teacher tries to keep abreast
of developments in at least one field of
specialization. We also are thinking about
course revisions in the department and we
thought this program could help us,” Dr.
Turner said.

Two post-doctoral fellows are assigned
to the W&L physics department for the
1969-70 session. They are Robert Cold-
well, who has completed work toward the
doctorate at the University of Washington
in Seattle, and LeRoy D. Moyer, who has

CAMPUS -13

completed work toward a doctorate at the
University of Rochester. Each man is in
the process of choosing a special research
project to conduct at Washington and
Lee, Dr. Turner said. Both men are in-
terested in theoretical physics.

“This is, to my knowledge, the first
time Washington and Lee has had this
kind of program,” he said. “The idea of
sending post-doctoral fellows to an under-
graduate college is fairly unique.”

Coldwell and Moyer were selected
from more than 30 applicants for the
positions. In addition to conducting re-
search, they must teach at least three
semester-hours and not more than six
semester-hours. This will provide some
released-time for members of the physics
department to increase their own research
or participate in the curriculum-revision
study, Dr. Turner noted. The NSF grant
provides both men and their families with
stipends for living expenses.

Other W&L departments which have
had COSIP projects are: biology, chemis-
try, economics, geology, mathematics, poli-
tical science, psychology, and sociology.

A Paper by Lowry

Dr. S. Todd Lowry, associate professor
of economics, is the author of a paper
which appeared in the first issue of a new
journal, History of Political Economy,
published in the fall and spring by the
Duke University Press. The article en-
titled “‘Aristotle’s Mathematical Analysis
of Exchange” was originally presented as
a paper hefore the Southern Economic

Association last November in Washington,
D.C.

Freshman Elections

Alan Prater of Shreveport, La., was
elected freshman class representative on
the Student Body Executive Committee
in October freshman elections. He de-.
feated Tom Mays of McLean, Va., in a
run-off election. Prater and Mays topped
a field of 10 candidates in the primary.

Rick Gray of Dallas, Texas, defeated
Eddie Haslam of New Orleans for presi-
dent of the freshman class in the run-off
election. They finished ahead of six other
candidates in the primary.

Jeff Burriss of Indianapolis was elected
freshman vice-president in a run-off with
Jeff Baugher of Manhasset, N.Y. There
were six candidates for this office in the
primary,

14: CAMPUS

Classes for Teachers

The University is conducting classes
in English and mathematics for a group
of 20 teacher aides under the antipoverty
New Careers Program.

President Huntley signed an agree-
ment for Washington and Lee to cooper-
ate with the Rockbridge area program of
Total Action Against Poverty (TAP), an
antipoverty organization which operates
in the Roanoke Valley.

Under this program, teacher aides have
been placed in the public schools of Lex-
ington and Buena Vista. From 3 p.m. to
5 p.m. Mondays through Thursdays, the
New Careers aides come to the Washing-
ton and Lee campus to take the classes
in fundamentals of English and math.

The classes are conducted according to
the needs of the participants, some of
whom will be attempting General Educa-
tion Development (GED) high school
equivalency tests in the spring.

Washington and Lee’s phase of the
program is directed by George Whitney,
associate professor of chemistry. Henry
Sloss, an instructor in the English de-
partment, is consultant to the program.
Teaching in the afternoon classes are
Mrs. Karen Pleva, David Zucker, Lewis
LaRue, and Whitney. Mrs. Pleva is the
wife of a Washington and Lee instructor,
Zucker teaches English, and LaRue
teaches law at W&L.

Miss Starr Mitchell of Roanoke, a
recent graduate of Hollins College, co-
ordinates the program between the Roa-
noke office, the school systems, and Wash-
ington and Lee.

New Careers is a program funded by
the federal government emphasizing
training for careers in new fields. The
University of Virginia provides the Rock-
bridge area group with professional edu-
cation classes every Friday in Buena Vista.

Aides for Admissions

A student debate team can help in-
troduce Washington and Lee to potential
applicants. Early in October, two Wash-
ington and Lee debaters, John Reynolds
and Tim Wright, both of Houston, Tex.,
talked to approximately 6,000 high school
students in the Pittsburgh, Pa., area. It
was the first contact many of the Pitts-
burgh students had ever had with Wash-
ington and Lee.

The University was one of five in-
stitutions of higher education invited to

send a debate team to the Public Series
Debate Program sponsored in Pittsburgh
area high schools by the University of
Pittsburgh.

Wright and Reynolds, who form a
highly ranked team in the University’s
debate program, not only introduced the
high school students to intercollegiate de-
bating but also talked to them about
Washington and Lee’s traditions and
academic programs.

“The visit was done unofficially for the
admissions program,” Prof. William W.
Chaffin, debate coach, said. “Many of the
students had never heard of Washington
and Lee before.”

A Decade of Research

The Robert E. Lee Research Program
has begun its 10th year with 38 Wash-
ington and Lee students participating in
33 research projects under the direction
of faculty members. And again the pro-
jects under this unusual undergraduate
research program are diverse:

A political science major studies pat-
terns of residential segregation; a_bio-
logy major researches the cytogenetics of
the gerbil; a history major studies the
diary of William L. Wilson during his
presidency of Washington and Lee, 1897-
1899.

One of the program’s unique aspects
is that the projects are frequently on the
graduate-school level, yet are undertaken
at a private liberal arts college by under-
graduates working closely with  pro-
fessors. During the past nine years and
eight summers, 539 students have engaged
in 430 projects. Although a non-credit
program, the work accomplished has been
a definite adjunct to the educational pro-
cess at Washington and Lee.

Originally made possible by a gift of
more than $250,000 by the late Gustavus
Benz Capito, an 1899 graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee, the program has been
maintained and broadened in_ scope
through the generous donations of the
Charleston and other foundations.

Participating students receive grants-
in-aid ranging from less than $100 to near-
ly $1,000 for several students working to-
gether on a single project. Students re-
port on their work during a series of
small, informal dinners held during the
school year for them and their professors.

The supervising professors, investi-
gating students, and projects involved in
the program this year are:

Prof. William Buchanan (political
science) with Charles A. Holt, Jr., of
Blacksburg, Va., “A Dynamic Simulation
Model of Residential Segregation.”

Prof. Ollinger Crenshaw (history)
with James Madewell of Dayton, Ohio,
“From Cabinet to Campus: the Washing-
ton and Lee Diary of William L. Wilson,
1897-1899.”

Prof. David G. Elmes (psychology)
with Carl Adams, III, of Birmingham,
Ala., “Conceptual Factors in Human
Short-term Memory.”

Prof. James J. Donaghy (physics) with
Jackson H. Ross of Roanoke, Va., “Opti-
cal Properties of Solids.”

Prof. L. Randlett Emmons (biology)
with Barry W. Mitchell of Yonkers, N.Y.,
and William M. Jacobs of Memphis,
Tenn., “The Cytogenetics of the Gerbil.”

Prof. George H. Gilmer (physics) with
James I. Bennetch of Lexington, Va., and
Richard Powers of Williamsburg, Va.,
“Films on Kinetic Theory.”

Prof. Duncan Grant (physics) with
Anthony M. Coyne of Decatur, Ga., “Solar
Control of the Upper Atmosphere.”

Prof. Cleveland P. Hickman, Jr., (bio-
logy) with William C. Ober of Newfield,
N.J., “Renal Function in Southern
Flounder.”

Prof. Thomas C. Imeson (chemistry)
with Edward O. Perry, III, of Augusta,
Ga., “Temperature Measurements in the
Flame of the HETCO Total Consump-
tion Burner.”

Prof. James R. Johnson (chemistry)
with Alexander M. Nading, Jr., of Win-
ston-Salem, N.C., “Preparation and Spec-
tra of a Series of Cobalt, Chromium, and
Iron Complex Ion Salts’; with Stephen
H. Kerkam of Washington, D.C., “Aque-
ous Tartrate Systems: Computer Assisted
Study of Equilibria and Activity Co-
efficients.”

Prof. Emory Kimbrough, Jr. (socio-
logy) with David I. Walsh of Fargo, N.D.,
“An Analysis of Factors Associated with
the Development of Bureaucratically
Structured Organizations, Utilizing a Sur-
vey Research Center Cross-National Sam-
ple.”

Prof. James E. Loesel (political sci-
ence) with Chris Herchold of North Ber-
gen, N.J., “The 1959 Mboya Airlift.”

Prof. Samuel J. Kozak (geology) with
Craig S. Bow of Rochester, N.Y. “A
Sampling Model for the Amherst Quad-
rangle, Virginia.”

Prof. Thomas G. Nye (biology) with
Charles T. Garten, Jr., of Parkersburg,

W.Va., “Conditions Affecting the Oc-
currence of Native Brook Trout in Vir-
ginia”’; with Clifford H. Kern, III, of New
Orleans, “A Photographic Study of Ac-
quatic Macroorganisms in a _ Native
Trout Stream”; Connor Smith of
Atlanta and Don Poppke of Landover
Hills, Md., “Effect of Varying External
Chloride Concentration on the Respira-
tory Metabolism of Nitella.”

Prof. Henry §. Roberts (biology) with
Marvin M. Brooke of Atlanta, “The De-
velopment and Modification of Techni-
ques for the Production of Slides of Bio-
logical Materials.”

Prof. James K. Shillington (chemistry)
with Robert Schooley of Birmingham,
Ala., “Analogues of Prostanoic Acid”;
with Bruce Bernard of Poughkeepsie, N.
Y., “Investigation of Surface Tints for
the Distinguishing of Nylons”; with David
Collins of Front Royal, Va., ‘““Time-Yield
Study of the Modified Huang-Minlon
Readtion”; with Robert M. White of
Rock Hill, S.C., “Synthesis of 9,10-Octal-
l-one”; with Joseph Philips of Chapel
Hill, N.C., “A Study of the Synthesis of

5”; with Roger Young

with

9,10-Octalendione-1,5
of Drexel Hill, Pa.,
an Unsaturated-ketoester as a Pilot Com-
pound for Reduction Studies.”

Prof. Edgar W. Spencer (geology) with
George Tolley of Lexington, Va., ‘Pre-
paration of Vertebrate Fossils”; with Rob-
ert Root of Chevey Chase, Md., ‘Tracing
Ground Water Movement”; Rick
Vierbuchen of Bethesda, Md., ‘Analysis
of Hydraulic Factors in Parts of the
Maury River Basin.”

Prof. James H. Starling (biology) with
James P. Mangan of New Britain, Conn.,
and John B. Stoudemire, Jr., of Orange
Park, Fla., “Taxonomic Study of the
Pauropods of Rockbridge, County.”

Prof. Joseph B. Thompson (psycho-
logy) with Lawrence Sutton of Newton,
N.J., and Henry Baker of Lexington,
Va., “The Role of Depth Cues in Two
Visual Illusions.”

Prof. Charles Turner (history) with
Daniel S. Shapiro of Richmond, Va.,
“Preservation of Historical Records of
Rockbridge County.”

Prof. George S. Whitney (chemistry)
with G. Hoy Widener of Paducah, N.Y.,
“Models and Organic Coupling Reac-
tions”; with Arthur Cleveland of Spar-
tanburg, S.C., “Bicyclo [3.2.1] Octanone-
2”; with Frank Fisher of Centreville, Va.,
“Free-Radical Reactions of Three-Carbon
Rings.”

“Preparation of

with

 

 

 

CAMPUS -15

 

WLUR staff reports election returns. Dr. Buchanan is standing; Prof
MacDonald is sitting second from left.

Full Election Report

More than 30 Washington and Lee
students got involved in politics on No-
vember 4 as part of their education. Their
first-hand involvement was part of the
experience which is stressed by the De-
partment of Journalism and Communi-
cations.

The student reporters were at the
headquarters of Virginia’s candidates for
governor to provide telephone reports as
part of the extensive election night cov-
erage by WLUR-FM, the University’s
student-run educational radio station.

\WLUR began its election coverage at
7 p.m. and remained on the air until
the early morning hours when the races
for governor, lieutenant governor and
attorney general were definitely decided.
The station, using reports of the Asso-
ciated Press, also covered the election
results of other important races in the
nation.

Richard Murray, a junior from Vala-
tie, N.Y., provided on-the-spot coverage
from the headquarters of Republican
Linwood Holton, the winner; Carl White-
hurst, a junior from Norfolk, reported
from the headquarters of Democrat Wil-
liam C. Battle; Jack Edmondson, a sopho-
more from Fort Worth, Texas, covered
the headquarters of the Rev. Beverly
McDowell, Conservative party candidate.

Frank Rose, a junior from Salem,
covered the local returns from Lexing-
ton City Hall; Max Brantley, a sopho-

more from Lake Charles, La., from the
Buena Vista City Hall; and Robert Stuart,
a junior from Louisville, Ky., from the
Rockbridge County Courthouse. Report-
ers for Home Edition, WLUR’s night-
ly newscast, the returns from
the campus studio.

broadcast

Anchor men for the broadcast were
WLUR News Director Howard Herman,
a senior from West Hampstead, N.Y.,
Prof. Ronald MacDonald, the sta-
tion’s general manager. Prof. MacDonald
was a news reporter for WDBJ-TV in
Roanoke for 13 years before coming to
W&L this fall and is a veteran of many
election-night Dr. William
Buchanan, professor of political science,
provided an analysis of the returns dur-

and

broadcasts.

ing the broadcast, which was also carried
by WREL-AM, Lexington’s commercial
radio station.

Prof. MacDonald said that the cover-
age was as thorough and extensive as that
of any radio station in the state and that
the exercise in practical journalism was
“another example of how the journalism
department here attempts to involve stu-
dents in the coverage of real news.”

On a regular basis, the W&L report-
ing class is responsible for covering the
news of the Lexington-Rockbridge Coun-
ty area daily under the direction of a
senior journalism major acting as city
editor. The are then
used on a student radio news program in

students’ stories

the evening.

 

 

 

 

16:CAMPUS

Science Club Visitors
Washington and Lee’s science depart-

ments were host to about 30 students

from the science club at Andrew Lewis
High School, Salem, Va., on October 24.

The visitors attended the weekly chem-
istry department seminar and then had
dinner at Evans Dining Hall with Wash-
ington and Lee science majors and Dr.
Edward Turner, head of the physics de-
The

tours of the physics department and the

partment. program also included
University observatory and the showing
of films in the geology department.
Faculty members assisting with the
program Dr. Turner Dr.
Edgar Spencer of the geology depart-
ment, Dr. William Watt of the chemis-
try department, and Dr. William Newbolt

besides were

of the physics department.

Superintendent Emeritus
C. Harold Lauck. has been designated
Superintendent Emeritus of the Journal-
ism Laboratory Press by action of the
University’s Board of Trustees.
Lauck, who received
state, national, and international honors

has numerous
for his abilities in the printing field, re-
tired July | after 60 years in the printing
trade, the last 37 of those years as super-
intendent of the
Laboratory Press.

The Board of Trustees, in designating
Lauck as Superintendent Emeritus, rec-
ognized his long and dedicated service to

University’s Journalism

the University.

Lauck was succeeded as Superinten-
dent by W. Howard Eanes, formerly as-
sistant managing editor of the Roanoke

Times.

Candidate for a Rhodes

An outstanding senior who is president
of the student body has been endorsed
by the faculty as a candidate for a Rhodes
Scholarship.

Marvin Henberg of Laramie, Wyo.,
has amassed an impressive set of creden-
tials during his stay at, Washington and
Lee. Dr. James G. Leyburn, professor of
sociology and chairman of the Univer-
sity’s Rhodes Committee,
noted that, so far as he knows, Henberg
is the first president of the W&L student

Scholarship

body to be in the Rhodes competition.
If elected a Rhodes Scholar, Henberg

would apply from his home state of

Wyoming. At Oxford University in Eng-

Yhe Troubadour Theatre
Oct.20+No. 1
oreel®

ei Se

 

ua?

land, he would read in “Modern Greats,”
the program embracing philosophy, poli-
tics, and economics.

Henberg is the fourth-ranking scholar
in his class, with a cumulative average of
3.737 on a 4.000 system.

During his freshman year, “Swede,” as
he is known on the campus, was a mem-
ber of Phi Eta Sigma, a fraternity honor-
ing scholarship, and he has served as
president of that fraternity. Since the
second semester of his sophomore year,
been Student
Curriculum Committee.

he has chairman of the

Who’s Who Lists 26
The 1969-70 Who’s Who
Among Students in American Universities

edition of

and Colleges will list the names of 26
Washington and Lee seniors.

The publication lists each year the
nation’s outstanding campus leaders. The
students are chosen on the basis of their
academic achievement, community serv-
ice, leadership in extracurricular activities,
and future potential.

Nine Virginians were chosen: senior
law students Michael Steven Colo of
Charlottesville, and Mosby Garland Per-
row, III, of Altavista, and undergraduate
seniors David McLeod Bethea of New-
port News, Bernard Waugh Crigler of
Culpeper, William Michael Gottwald and
John Edward Miller, both of Richmond,
Steven Bruce Sandler of Norfolk, Robert

Powel Trout of Roanoke, and John Earl

Wetsel, Jr., of Ashland.

Other law seniors named were: Wayne
Lee Bell of Seaford, Del., Benjamin Ber-
nard Cummings, Jr., of Wildwood, N.].,
and Richard Peter Lasko of Merrick, N.Y.

Other were:
Charles Columbus Cahn, Jr., of Mont-
gomery, Ala., Charles William Dobbins,
Jr., of Louisville, Ky., Robert Lee Entz-

undergraduate seniors

minger olf Belle, W.Va., Marvin Charles
Wyo.,
Edward Honig of Houston, Texas, Philip
Hubbard of Ala.,
Reeve Withhrow Kelsey of Toledo, Ohio,

Henberg of Laramie, Lawrence

Curtis Montevallo,
Dennis Dean Kumpuris of Little Rock,
Ark., Dan Madison Leonard of Roswell,
N.M., Thomas Needles McJunkin of
Charleston, W.Va., John Michael Nolan
of Wantagh, N.Y., Robert Turner Schoo-
ley of Birmingham, Ala., Michael Timothy
Huntington, W.Va., and
Gerald William Weedon of Jacksonville,
Fla.

‘Thornton of

Troubs Play Pinter

The ‘Troubadour Theatre presented
its first year, The
Homecoming by Harold Pinter October

production of the

29 through November 1.
Lee
arts,

‘Troubadour Theatre Director
Kahn, fine

said he chose the play because he con-

assistant professor of
siders Pinter to be an important contem-
porary playwright who will become even
more important.

The play, which premiered in London
three years concerns a man, his
brother, and his two sons living together
Into their world

ago,

in a womanless world.
comes a third son, who is returning home
after an absence of six years, and his wife,
whom the family has never met. The con-
flict in the play, according to Kahn, is
within the characters, not among the
characters.

Approximately 50 students were in-
volved in preparing the play for produc-
The included Karen
Thorpe, the wife of W&L law student
Roy Thorpe of New York City, and five
W&L students: David Christovich of New
La., Wess Pullman of Garden
City, N.Y., Bob Carrere of New Orleans,
Mike Leary of Lexington, Va., and Hugh
Hill of Roanoke, Va.

‘The ‘Troubadours presented Shake-

tion. cast of six

Orleans,

speare’s King Lear, in December. The
Broadway hit, Hair is tentatively sche-
duled for March 11-14 if the play is re-
leased,

One Coach Twitched, Another Stared In Disbelief,
And A Third Had To Nurse A Bad Case of The Blahs

About the only time Buck Leslie came
anywhere close to smiling this fall was
just after he and his Generals returned
from St. Louis following their final foot-
ball game of the season. Leslie said it
had been the smoothest plane trip he had
ever made, which to him was something
near euphoria considering he’s always
been a white-knuckle passenger.

Leslie, you see, is one of the worrying
kind, especially when he’s trying to mold
Washington and Lee into a winner. For
three months, he frets, twitches, and
most of the time keeps his eyes glued to
the ground. He really gets up tight.

And so it happened again this year as
the Generals were a trifle more sluggish
than they were brilliant in posting a 4-5-0
record. The game in St. Louis, where
Washington University prevailed, 20-12,
was the one that got in the way of a
winning season,

Throughout, Leslie pondered the prob-
lems that have plagued W&L for what
seems like ages—lack of size, no depth,
lack of speed, injuries, and so on. He was
also troubled by the many vacancies he
had to fill on the defensive unit, a condi-
tion caused by last summer’s graduation.

Flanker Bruce Green threw away the peachbasket Lefty prepared, and started

The Generals won their first game,
14-13, over Towson State, courtesy of
senior Jack Baizley’s soccer-style place-
ments, but got clunked by Randolph-
Macon the following week, 41-16. The big
‘Macon line opened large holes for
scatback Howie Stevens and set up im-
penetrable pockets for passer Doug Toan.

Centre downed W&L, 14-7, when the
Colonels capitalized on a _ bad center
snap during a punt attempt. But the Gen-
erals came back to defeat Hampden-
Sydney, 21-13, when junior flanker Bruce
Green caught his first two passes of the
year, both for touchdowns. Until that
time rumor had it that equipment man
Lefty Newell was preparing a peachbasket
for Green’s use, so hopeless the receiver
had been in the first three games. Green,
though, went on to catch eight scoring
passes for the season.

After a 20-15 loss to Tufts, W&L eased
by Bridgewater, 10-6, again on Baizley’s
instep. He provided a field goal and
PAT to pull it out.

The Sewanee game was unbelievable.
The Generals ran and passed at will
against the host Tigers, amassing 537 total
yards and $1 first downs, but they also

 

grabbing touchdown passes like this one against Southwestern,

AVTHILETICS 17

fumbled four times, suffered three inter-
ceptions, and had a punt blocked to
lose, 37-21.

In a strong wind, senior roll-out passer
Chuck Kuhn fired two scoring passes to
Green, sophomore back Dave Brooks re-
turned an interception for a TD, and
Baizley kicked a 38-yard field goal to
lead W&L to a 24-19 victory over South-
western. But Washington ended the pos-
sibility of a winning season the final
week. Although Brooks turned an inter-
ception into another touchdown, this for
a record 100 yards, the Generals’ defensive
secondary napped too much and allowed
two WU scoring passes, and that was it.

While Leslie remained jittery (a friend
even called him a_ pessimist’s pessimist),
soccer coach Joe Lyles must have been
watching his team in disbelief. Almost
completely devoid of veterans, W&L had
to fill in with freshman rookies, and, just
like that, everything happened to fall in
place.

The hustling Generals beat teams they
weren't supposed to, and when they lost
or tied games, it was usually because of
a freak play. Three times during the
season, W&L players scored goals for
the opponents, once when a ball was
headed into the W&L goal and _ twice
when errant clearing shots went the
wrong way.

Finally finishing with a 7-2-2 mark,
the Generals were invited to play in the
NCAA Eastern Regionals at Springfield
College, and it was there the bottom fell
out. Lyles’ team was first defeated by
Elizabethtown (Pa.), 10-0, and then by
St. Lawrence (N.Y.), 8-0. To hear it told
by the players, the tourney sounded more
like war games. Washington and Lee
senior fullback Mark Sayers said he had
to duck one hard Elizabethtown shot from
30 yards out, and when he did he said
he heard the ball whistle as it flew over-
head.

Cross-country coach Dick Miller didn’t
have to fight any battles, but he did have
to contend with a case of the blahs, or
mononucleosis. Freshman runner Bob
Sherwood looked like he was going to
tear the place apart in the first few meets,
but then fell back drastically at mid-sea-
son when school physicians diagnosed a
touch of the illness.

Junior Bill Wilkinson came on fast to
take over, but the lack of depth surely
hurt as the Generals finished 3-4 and
ninth in the state meet won by William
and Mary.

18: ALUMNI

Homecoming Brings

First Fall Reunions
And End of a ‘Hex’

Homecoming Weekend, October 3-5,
was the occasion of the first fall class
reunions at Washington and Lee. It also
brought an end to Washington and Lee’s
“homecoming hex’ on football oppon-
ents. The Generals lost 14 to 7 to Centre
College, the first Homecoming defeat in
10 years.

But returning alumni had other things
to cheer about—parties, luncheons, din-
ners, and the dedication of the new Uni-
verstiy Center. (A dedication story is else-
where in this issue.)

Returning for reunions under a new
system of fall class gatherings were the
academic and law classes of 1924, 1934,
1939, 1949, and 1964. Fall reunions were
started this year to give alumni an oppor-
tunity to return to the campus more
often. With the reunions of five classes
continuing to be held in the spring, the
new program makes it possible for an
alumnus to return for a reunion every
fifth year. (Classes which will have re-
unions next spring are 1920, 1930, 1945,
1955, 1960, and the Old Guard.)

About 400 alumni and guests partici-
pated in the fall reunion programs. Fol-
lowing registration on Friday, Dr. Ollin-
ger Crenshaw, professor of history and
University historian, met alumni in the
University Bookstore and autographed
copies of General Lee’s College, his his-
tory of the University which was pub-
lished earlier this year.

Alumni were guests at a cocktail party
Friday afternoon at the Alumni House,
with the Rockbridge County alumni chap-
ter as host. That evening many attended
a student-sponsored concert in Doremus
Gymnasium, featuring folk singers Ian
and Sylvia.

Saturday morning, alumni heard a dis-
cussion in Lee Chapel of two closely re-
lated topics: whether the University
should become coeducational and what
size the University should be. The
speakers were the chairmen of the two
committees studying the questions, Dr.
Louis W. Hodges, professor of religion,
chairman of the coeducation committee,
and John M. Gunn, Jr., associate professor
of economics, chairman of the size com-

mittee. Dean of Students Lewis G. John
presided.

Dedication of the University Center
followed this session. After the ceremony,
an open house was held in the center and
a luncheon in Evans Dining Hall.

Lambda Chi Alpha won the Home-
coming decoration contest for the third
straight year; Miss Gail Dudley of Hol-
lins College, representing Phi Epsilon Pi,
was crowned Homecoming Queen during
the football game half-time ceremonies.

After the football game, alumni _ at-
tended a party at the Alumni House and
then dispersed to various places in Lex-
ington for their anniversary banquets. A
reunion party at the Alumni House
capped the events.

University Honors
Past Football Teams
On Centennial Day

Washington and Lee celebrated the
100th anniversary of intercollegiate foot-
ball on October 18 by honoring some of
the best players and teams in the Gen-
erals’ long football history. There was
only one flaw in the Centennial Day Cele-
bration: the 1969 Generals lost the foot-
ball game, 20-15, to Tufts University of
Boston.

Nearly 40 former football players from
five past outstanding teams were honored

guests at the game and at a Centennial
banquet after the game. Among them
were the only two surviving members of
the 1902 W&L team, the last to play VMI
—George Haw of Richmond and Dawson
Trundle of Bethesda, Md.

The Centennial Day observance was
part of college football’s season-long cele-
bration of its 100th year. It was in 1869
that Princeton met Rutgers in the first
intercollegiate football game, and it was
just four years later that Washington and
Lee played VMI in the first game in the
South.

W. E. (Tex) Tilson of Lexington,
coach of the 1934 W&L team which won
the Southern Conference championship
with a 7-3 record, was on hand with seven
of his players—Lewis Martin, Charles
Sweet, George Harrison, George Lowry,
Joe (Double-O) Arnold, Sam (Monk) Mat-
tox, and Ed Seitz.

Ten members of the 1950 team,
which played in the Gator Bowl after
winning the Southern Conference title
with an 8-2 record, also attended. They
were Dave Waters, Joe McCutcheon, Gil
Bocetti, Bob Goldsmith, Jack Garst,
Charlie Smith, Ray Leister, Jim Stark,
Mike Radulovic, and Roland Thompson.

The 1961 team, undefeated in nine
games and voted the Outstanding Small
College ‘Team in the nation by the Wash-
ington Touchdown Club, had 18 of its
members back: John Lee, Robin Wood,
Mickey Walker, Sam Preston, Tommy
Goodwin, Henry Sackett, John McDaniel,
Charley Gummey, Joe

Bobby Payne,

 

Attending the Class of 1924 Reunion were (seated) John F. Hendon, M. R. Bruin, Jr.,
John Thomas, and John G. Guerrant, and (standing) Reed E. Graves, John T. McVay,
Frank C. Switzer, Charles A. Tutwiler, Matthew P. Matheney, and Dorr M. Tucker.

Howson, Courtney Mauzy, Barton Dick,
Bill Wheeler, George Cruger, Steve Suttle,
Chip Day, Jerry Hyatt, and Ned Hobbs.

Hall of Fame member Harry K. (Cy)
Young was to have represented the 1914
undefeated team which rolled over nine
opponents by a combined score of 313
to 12, but was unable to attend because
of illness.

President Huntley presented the for-
mer football greats special centennial cer-
tificates and medals during half-time
ceremonies at the W&L-Tufts game. Pre-
viously, the guests had met and talked
with members of the 1969 team at a pre-
game training meal.

Centennial Queen Debbie Coslett,
wife of Generals’ offensive guard Ned Cos-
lett, was crowned during the half-time
ceremonies by 1902 players Trundle and
Haw, who immediately waltzed her
around the 50-yard line to the beat of

the “Washington and Lee Swing,” played
by the recently organized W&L Pep Band.
Mrs. Coslett was picked for the honor by
members of the 1969 team.

Inspired by the occasion, the Generals
put on one of the most impressive offen-
sive displays ever seen on Wilson Field.
Quarterbacks Chuck Kuhn and _ Jack
Baizley threw 48 passes, and the Generals
gained a total of 377 yards, 274 of them
in the air. Flanker Bruce Green and
end Steve Mahaffey were the chief re-
ceivers, Green catching seven passes for
130 yards and one touchdown and Ma-
haffey catching six for 76 yards and the
other score.

But it was not quite enough. The
Generals were driving for the winning
touchdown and were on the Tufts’ 35-yard
line when the game ended.

A spokesman for each of the returning
teams made brief remarks at the banquet
following the game. Gil Bocetti of the
1950 team expressed the sentiments of
those who returned.

“From talking with my teammates
this weekend, I can say for them that we
heartily endorse the present football pro-
gram at W&L,” he said. “For many of us
this is the first time in 20 years we have
returned to W&L, and we are impressed
by what we saw here this weekend.”

Bocetti and others expressed their
willingness to help recruit qualified ath-
letes for Washington and Lee. This was in
response to a reminder from W&L’s new
athletic director, Gene Corrigan, that
even under a nonsubsidized athletic pro-
gram “recruiting is-not a dirty word.”

ALUMNI -19

 

Centennial Day Celebration scenes:
(above) Dawson Trundle and George
Haw of the 1902 football team; (right)
Trundle dances with Centennial Queen
Debbie Coslett during half-time
ceremonies; (below) Quarterback

Chuck Kuhn is hauled down by

two Tufts tacklers after scrambling
for a short gain.

 

 

20: ALUMNI

 

Now is the time to suggest to
the Alumni Committee on Nomi-
nations the names of alumni for
nomination for three seats on the
Alumni Board of Directors and one
seat on the University Committee
on Intercollegiate Athletics.

The nominating committee will
close its report on April | and pre-
sent its nominations to be voted
upon at the annual meeting of the
Washington and Lee Alumni. As-
sociation on May 9 in Lee Chapel.
The annual meeting coincides with
spring reunion weekend.

Under the By-Laws, any member
of the Alumni Association may sub-

MicnaAri. P. Crocker, ‘yo, Chairman
Lawyer

Piper & Marbury

goo First National Bank Building
Light and Redwood Streets
Baltimore, Md. 21204

 

Name Your Candidate

mit names of alumni to the nomi-
nating committee for nomination
for vacancies on the Alumni Board
of Directors and the University
Committee on Intercollegiate Ath-
letics. Alumni may send names to
any member of the nominating
committee or to the committee
through the office of the executive
secretary of the Alumni Associa-
tion. Nominations may also be
made from the floor at the annual
meeting of the association,

Members of the 12-man Alumni
Board of Directors are elected to
four-year terms, with the terms of

three members expiring each year.

4

“

 

W. Temple WEBBER, JR., "54
Vice President

Southern National Bank

P. O. Box 2529

Houston, Texas 77001

Retiring from the Board in May
are Frederick Bartenstein, Jr., “41,
of Rahway, N.J., president; John
M. Jones, III, ’37, of Greeneville,
Tenn., vice-president, and Warren
H. Edwards, '39, of Orlando, Fla.

Alumni members of the Athletic
Committee serve two-year terms,
with one alumni member retiring
each year. The member retiring in
1970 is Ruge P. DeVan, Jr., ’34, of
Charleston, W.Va.

In compliance with Article 9 of
the By-Laws of Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., the names, ad-
dresses and pictures of the nomi-
nating committee for 1970-71 are
published here:

A. H. HAMEL, ‘50

Lawyer

Kerth, Thies, Schrieber,
Hamel & Dee

St. Louis County National
Bank Building

sooo Forsyth Boulevard
Clayton, Mo. 63105

 

 

Chapter News

The Piedmont chapter held a recep-
tion-banquet on September 25 in honor
of Gene Corrigan, athletic director, and
Verne Canfield, basketball and tennis
coach. The event was held at the Albert
Pick Motel, near the Greensboro-High
Point-Winston-Salem Airport. Guests in-
cluded several prospective students for
the fall of 1970 and the parents of sev-
eral current students. Coach Canfield
talked about basketball and tennis pro-
spects and suggested ways alumni could

help recruit qualified players. Corrigan
reviewed the University’s athletic program
encompassing 12 intercollegiate sports and
explained a program for increased help
from alumni in recruiting. Gil Bocetti,
chapter president, presided and pledged
the support of the chapter in these ef-
forts. A nominating committee was named
to recommend a slate of officers to be
elected at the January meeting. The
members are Claibourne Darden, 35, Al
Gitter, ‘58, and Lucius Johnson, '56.

Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn made
announcements about upcoming events
at the University.

Earlier, on August 28, officers of the
chapter honored incoming freshmen from
the area and their parents at an informal
buffet at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Gitter.
Among the officers attending were Walter
Hannah, Robert Bertini,-and Fred Heina,
and their wives. In all, 22 guests gave the
five freshmen a cheerful send-off to Wash-
ington and Lee,

ALUMINI:29

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
OPERATING STATEMENT
For the Year Ended June 30, 1969
INCOME:
1968-69 Alumni Fund—total pledges ou... csssetscetscesscstsssssessssesseesseesee D301, 360.72
Add:
Uncollected pledges at June 30, 1968 on 1967-68 Alumni Fund 33,068.50
$334,429.22
Less:
Uncollected pledges at June 30, 1969 ..........:cccceceeeee Dd 34,047.25
Pledges written off, 1967-68 Fund .........ccccccceeeeeeeeeeees 1,875.00 35,922.25
OCRE, TRC CCCI 6. giticitos ck castimiicosnsooesvenidintatienin $298,506.97
OPERATING EXPENSES:
SRO cn kieccssvtat steal Tae «csv dden sa lana AAA ca ash eit AAA WAnedayy ibis nevcnicnse GOAN
VENINE IIS sod terial teas tre tesdsatiass enn cedicoge sacs tng odattasec Me Giapaeelaptntinbagsacnzehecho-ccsyesises 12,854.71
PRI NE ik sid asin cians tal vibenahds tbe ane a aia Nabbaeeuiiaieydisesncosesteeeee 551.40
SNS 5k, AN WO ook ce casucencastetptsvcacenscinecetbsauncapnesdawiumeniessecnsdchsnsenses 230.35
RI Niger carne scoetcce is geste tet nies oN thekt Pitbes atorcbadblpiedescésionsvecepeence 542.81
NN ean covers SA SM MAI EaiETaT es eyatannibaniTetooatnekigeetdiess setscieedeceensecei cess 4,272.15
SR aM phi's (exvivabvsssciaeprnniiabeay eel el bsaaaTGveiabivWityesoetncibiviess ponsesessicoeonn ss 334.12
Sa nda hs. =n kiMcane eR SA NS aD Saeed ibe chiles: sg dcdigcethecsenesens 1,158.70
PU INN 25 asic dius ecsceigaadvascabintenuchiend eR EMbeetaceui yagi sclshe vedi vecvdsesodesnesiressiee 18,226.92
SR Ns Sic phicowetiie cas bsinichci havea adden adllcns dadepbabbin oolddeewelbalagiinnseblvtedvsestoveces 2,053.40
PRI ich strats aici i cage oiccceat hasan cdando RUCNER Biba s At Lieiee i lsdoveciceasssbingnes 4,829.72
edt oo inc 12s. «ncn ncenmilansiaiaetadabibaaiinbn taibsimibansithrnsi>seunenstuuevienctl bcos 3,509.89
"CUI acess cu inne snnssacain ene SUMMA aNANaI Alem MaNADIAIan on teadiinjn Uses pnd dasetnisrenins segeaneds 730.38
BR aa cache ae ida awn cece eck godschns bcd thovnd beaacssusl dapat estat oede Hcceat Te cnr tinwikl 5,462.42
IIE © aida). sw ciais deta tadaicndedenceedhnaien Satis daateniididianhmicsleanalteacisndaaeea-cessianeily 13,901.89
UU Ce a ia ois cinaiiapnninedinnsh oie ented tiaaniwddishoappeie 101,945-17
Excess of Collected Income over Operating Expenses ..................:++ $196,561.80
DESIGNATED INCOME TRANSFERRED TO
UNIVERSITY TREASURER:
Endowment—1944 Class Fund ..............c,cccsscsssssssscsssscscecscsssssssscsevssreneegp 4,930.00
NII cots tha) 0 hese s ca aii conc sieseeeanendaabia abpeobes si saueshttetiees> 22,390.30
PE TART Bec dative csnvessndéstisdhenececinins ees tedd meetin tlosnennigines doscbinven 2,805.00
NER MII ovis dic5c5 sp abide tb asenthsics+oceacstudMNeiiatasekesds toxeenksvactadhseeis 2,600.00
REC ON SE CCT PUN isc as sictaeianlntiabananidbaghieditgaesiasdeics 20,266.62
2Otal Designated Income TYamsserred. ........5.:cccscscsseoessscasesscesscccsnenss 52,991.92
Excess of Collected Income over Operating Expenses ..............::00000+ $143,569.88
REVOLVING FUND BALANCE, JUNE go, 1969 (Cash advanced by Rees
a RIN oo, svn sd DietavctcnnsbSevioseausiilees «iasalsaddntchdsiucsaebitbdepeveceunmaareanis $ 800.00
NOTE:
All items of income and expenditures in this statement, except uncollected pledges, were
taken into the accounts of the University Treasurer.

 

 

22: CLASS NOTES

CLASS NOTES

 

 

With Crest

rock maple,
black with g«
finished in c
welcome

dings. All pro

ham, ’41.

Gardner,

guaranteed if
vember 1.

 

gilt
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-

‘THE

WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR

in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and

hand-rubbed | in
ld trim and arms
herry. It makes a
for Christmas,

fit from sales of the

chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-

Price: $37.00 f.o.b.

Massachusetts

Mail your order to

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington,

Virginia 24450

NOTICE: Delivery of orders in-
tended for Christmas cannot be

received after No-

 

 

1914

CARLISLE HAVERLOCK MoOrRISSETT, sometimes
referred to as Virginia’s “Wizard of Tax”
has notified Gov. Mills Godwin, Jr. that he
wishes to retire on Jan. 15, 1970. That date
will mark the official end of a state govern-
ment career stretching back over 55 years as
lawyer, legislative drafter, Virginia constitu-
tion drafter, tax expert, fiscal adviser and
general trouble-shooter under 14 Virginia
governors. Morrissett’s career began when he
joined the Virginia Code Commission and
did much of the painstaking legal work that
produced the Virginia Code of igig. In
1926, Gov. Harry F. Byrd tapped Morrissett
to organize and head Virginia's first State
Department of ‘Taxation. Morrissett also
drafted the state income withholding legis-
lation for Gov. Albertis S. Harrison, Jr., in
1962, and more recently, drafted the sales tax
program that Gov. Godwin proposed. In a
letter, responding to Morrissett’s notice of
retirement, Godwin said, “Your tenure alone
sets you apart as a man of unusual capabili-
ties. I am deeply appreciative of your un-
failing response to all requests from this
office and for the great contributions you have
made through the years to good government
and equitable tax programs.”

1925

In his goth year as a Methodist minister,
Bruck F. GANNAWAY is now with the First
United Methodist Church in Ormond Beach,
Fla. In the past 28 years, he has served eight
different churches. Gannaway also_ served
11 years as a district superintendent.

1929

Lewis F. Powerit, Jr., Richmond lawyer and
a member of the Washington and Lee
Board of Trustees, is the recipient of the
Thomas Jefferson Award for public service.
Ihe award, given annually since 1962 by
the Old Dominion Chapter of the Public Re-
lations Society of America, was presented to
Powell for his varied contributions to Vir-
ginia and to the nation. He received the
award Oct. g at a formal dinner in Rich-
mond. He was president of the American
Bar Association in 1964-65, and he took of-
fice Aug. g as president of the American
College of Trial Lawyers. He is a fellow and
vice president of the American Bar Founda-

ms 1935

Epwin' M. Marks, vice president of Gold-
smith’s Department Store in Memphis, has
recently been named president of the Mem-
phis Kiwanis Club. Also, named as first vice
president was HUNTER LANE, JR., ‘51.

1938

WiLtiAmM H. DANIEL, a real estate and invest-
ment executive in Tulsa, Okla., is a mem-
ber of the board of trustees of the College
of the Ozarks in Clarksville, Ark. He is also
a member of the Board of Directors of the
Hoyt Corp. of Rogers, Ark., and has a home
near there on Beaver Lake.

POWELL GLAss, JR., formerly with a news-
paper in Bay St. Louis, Miss., has moved to

Lynchburg, Va., where he is now editorial]
director of the News.

Joun E. Netti has been named by President
Goheen of Princeton University to member-
ship on the advisory council of Princeton's
English department. The council is charged
with the purpose of relating the work of the
English department with people or profes-
sions of particular interest. Neill is a vice
president of W. W. Norton Co., book pub-

lishers.
1939

The American Optical Corp. has named
ALAN B. Hosses as secretary of the corpora-
tion. Hobbes will continue as the corpora-
tion’s general counsel. Prior to joining
American Optical he was assistant general
counsel in charge of court proceedings for
the Federal Trade Commission in Washing-
ton. Hobbes is a member of the bar of the
Supreme Court of the United States, the
Massachusetts bar, and the District of Colum-
bia bar.

hIELDEN Woopwarb, a partner in the Louis-
ville law firm of Woodward, Hobson, & Ful-
ton, has been appointed to the national ad-
visory council of the Practicing Law Institute
as a representative from Kentucky. The coun-
cil acts as an advisory body on educational
policy for the Institute, the nation’s oldest
and largest continuing legal educational or-

eS 1940

The aluminum division of Kaiser Aluminum
& Chemical Corp. has announced the ap-
pointment of JOHN W. WAtTSON, JR., as vice
president for marketing and administration.
Watson had previously been vice president
and general manager of the mill products
division. He has been affiliated with Kaiser
since 1946, when he joined the company as
a sales representative in Los Angeles. He
has held a wide variety of sales, managerial,
and executive posts since that time, as well
as such diverse assignments as director of
public relations and advertising, and_ vice
president and general manager of the Euro-
pean and African region of the international

division.
1942

Roserr C. WALKER, president of the United
Virginia Bank of Williamsburg, received a
white porcelain freedom bell from = Mrs.
George E. Hamilton, III, representative for
Radio Free Europe. Walker served as _ the
Virginia State Chairman for the 1969 fund
campaign for Radio Free Europe.

1949

Lr. Con. MicuaArr J. BARRerr, JR., has been
presented the Legion of Merit, one of the
highest military decorations for outstand-
ing service, for his distinguished service dur-
ing previous duty in the office of Air Force
Judge Advocate General. Col. Barrett was
cited for his exemplary leadership and _ pro-
fessionalism from February, 1965 to June,
1g69, and was specifically credited with re-
solving numerous legal problems of major
importance to the Air Force. The colonel is
now director of international law and claims
for the igth Air Force, headquartered at
Clark Air Force Base in the Phillippines.

THOM Hook: is in his third year with the
Federal Aviation Administration, in the
office of public affairs. He is acting chief of
the employee information division and_ is
also associate editor of FAA Horizons, a news-
paper with circulation to 45,000 employees

biweekly.
1950

Governor Winthrop Rockefeller has named
ADRIAN WILLIAMSON, JR., a Little Rock
banker, as executive director of the Arkansas
Industrial Development Commission. Wil-
liamson is vice president of the Commercial
National Bank in Little Rock and is promi-
nent in banking and business circles. He is
vice chairman of the agriculture and area
development committee of the Little Rock
Chamber of Commerce; vice chairman of the
Pulaski County chapter of the American Red
Cross; treasurer and past president of Down-
town Litthe Rock Unlimited; and vice presi-
dent and a member of the board of trustees
of the Arkansas Arts Center.

195]

The Equitable Life Assurance Society has
named FrERDINAND PHILLIPS, JR., of Coral
Gables as one of its new agency managers in
the greater Miami area. Phillips joined
Equitable’s sales force in 1959 in Norfolk, Va.,
and became district manager in Miami in
1964, where he excelled in both sales and
managerial responsibility. He is a member
of the Million Dollar Round Table and has
earned the CLU designation.

Joun Bowen, manager of the Hampton bu-
reau of the Daily Press of Newport News, has
been promoted to associate editor. Bowen is
assigned to the main office of the Daily
Press in Newport News, and will assist the
editorial page editors of the Daily Press and
Times-Herald, Before becoming manager of
the Hampton bureau, Bowen worked as a

general assignment reporter on the news
staff of the Times-Herald. He joined the
newspaper in 1953.

Rospert FF. DuGuay has been appointed

Joun W. WATSON, JR., ’yo

ROBERT C, WALKER, *42

manager and secretary of the trust division
of the Pennsylvania Bankers Association.
Following graduation from Washington and
Lee, Duguay received a degree from the
New York University Graduate School of
Business. He began his banking career in
1955 When he entered the officer training
program at Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. In
i957, he joined the trust department of
the State National Bank of Connecticut as
administrative assistant. In the years follow-
ing, he held various officer positions and
last year was named vice president and trust
officer. Duguay has taken the American In-
stitute of Banking graduate courses and at-
tended the Estate Administration School of
the N.Y. State Bankers Association. He and
his family now live in the Harrisonburg, Pa.,

area.

NORMAN, JR., formerly of Pine
has been elected to the board
the First National Bank of

1957

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Joun S. Stump, II,
a son, John S. Stump, IV, on Aug. 21. The
family lives in Fairfax, Va.

WILLIAM C.
Bluff, Ark.,
of directors of
Crossett, Ark.

ALEXANDER B. PLATT has been appointed
vice president of Grolier Educational Corp.
Dr. Platt, a consulting psychologist for the
past year with Rohrer, Hibler & Replogle,
management consultants in New York, holds
Ph.D. and M.A. degrees from Columbia Uni-
versity. He was associate dean for student
alfairs at Columbia College and before that
Was assistant professor of psychology at
Briarcliff College and dean of students at
the School of General Studies at Columbia.
He began his business career as a counselor
at the Vocational Service Center in New
York. Grolier Educational Corp. is a sub-
sidiary of Grolier Inc., one of the world’s
largest publishers of encyclopedias and other
educational and reference materials.

Joun S. MoreMeN has been elected an of-
ficer of Brown-Forman Distillers Corp. and
will serve as assistant secretary. In addition

Ropert F. DuGuay, 753

GLASS NOTES 323

to his new responsibilities as a corporate of-
ficer, Moremen will continue to serve as an
attorney for the distillery. He joined Brown-
Forman’s legal department in 1965 after
serving as a partner in several law firms. He
is a member of the American Judicature
Society, and of the American, Kentucky, and
Louisville Bar Associations. Moremen_ has
been active in the Kentucky Arthritis Founda-
tion and the Louisville Tuberculosis Associa-

tion.
BORN: Mr. and Mrs. IrvIN N.
son, Michael Scott, on June 20.

CAPLAN, a

With experience as a teacher, administrator,
and minister, Dr. WILLIAM RicHARD Goop-
MAN, JR., has been appointed acting assistant
professor of religion at Lynchburg College.
From 1961 until 1964, he was pastor of the
McDowell and Williamsburg Presbyterian
Churches, Bath and Highland counties, and
from 1964 until 1967, was superintendent of
the Durham County Youth Home in North
Carolina. Goodman is a member of the
Society of Biblical Literature, the American
Academy of Religion, and the American As-
sociation of University Professors.

1959

Jor. E. Kockn has been named manager of
taxes for Sybron Corp. Kocen was previously
a member of the tax department of S. D.
Leidesdorf & Co., an accounting firm in New
York City. He served three years as senior
tax analyst for the Anaconda Co., also of
New York City, and three years as tax ac-
countant for Reynolds Metals Co. He joined
Reynolds in 1961 after serving as an as-
sociate member of the Richmond law firm of
Cohen, Kelly & Abeloff.

1960

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Frep F. Benton, a
daughter, Lucia Temple Benton, on Octo-
ber 17. She joins an older sister and brother:
the family lives in Houston, Texas.

Dr. J. Deryt Hart, Jr., has’ been appointed
program administrator in the medical sci-

 

Jor. EF. KoOcen, "59

2a GLASS NOTES

ences section of the research training grants
branch of the National Institute of General
Medical Sciences. In his new position, Dr.
Hart will help develop programs of research
training in surgery, as well as administer cur-
rent surgery research training grants.

196]

BORN: Mr. and Mrs, J. Harvey ALLEN, JR.,
a daughter, Courtney Ann, on August 15.
She joins an older sister; the family lives
in Dallas.

1962
MARRIED: Privrk A. AGELASTO and Betsy
Camp Rawls were married Oct. 4 in Frank-
lin, Va. Dr. JOHN W. Poyner, ‘62, of Bir-
mingham, Ala, was best man, and among the
groomsmen was DAvip H. Abams, ‘65. —

STEPHEN RUTLEDGE has recently been named
brand manager in the bar soap and _ house-
hold cleaning products division of Procter
& Gamble.

Joun K. McC unc, JRr., has been appointed
eastern Virginia field representative for the
National Foundation-March of Dimes. Mc-
Clung will work with volunteer members of
the 51 national foundation chapters in eas-
tern Virginia. These chapters support an
expanding program in research, professional
education, and treatment of children born
with serious physical and mental defects.
Prior to joining the Foundation, McClung
was employed by the Royal Globe Insurance
Co. as an underwriter.

1963

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THomMas W. ZINN, a
daughter, Tracy Ellen, on Sept. 24. Zinn is a
captain in the Army Medical Corps and _ is
stationed in El Paso, Tex. after several
months in Vietnam.

The North Carolina National Bank of Char-
lotte has announced the promotion of
THoMmAS T, Moore, JRk., to systems planning
officer.

 

JOHN K. MCCLUNG, JR., 62

1964

MARRIED: Puitir S. E. Bootn and Sandra
Bush of Louville, N.Y., were married Aug.
22. Booth has one year to serve as soloist
with the U.S. Army chorus in Washington,
D.C. During the next year, he will further
his operatic career with appearances in seven
new opera productions. Last Month, Booth
placed third in the Middle Atlantic Regional
Metropolitan opera auditions.

1966
MARRIED: Maurice R. Fietss and EIfi
Straub of Ulm, West Germany were married
on Aug. 23 in Clifton Forge, Va. The
couple will reside in Roanoke.

The new director of public relations for the
Virginia Employment Commission is Davin
‘TP. SHUFFLEBARGER. A native of Hampton,
Shufflebarger joined the VEC in June, 1969,
as public information officer. He was formerly

with the Newport News Daily Press, the
Norfolk Virginian-Pilot, and the staff of
VMI.

1967

Having attained two master’s degrees from
the University of Alabama, JON WARNER
began working this fall for the Gulf States
Paper Corp. in Tuscaloosa, Ala. The degrees
are in business statistics and business admini-
stration. Warner is particularly interested in
the computerization of the company’s fores-
try operation. He is married to the former
Martha Moore who will receive her B.A. de-
gree also from the University of Alabama in
May.

IN MEMORIAM
1904

ARTHUR ‘TABB, vice president and director
of Southern Savings & Building Association
of Louisville, Ky., and retired owner of Tabb
Storage & Transfer Co., died Sept. 19. He
was a 33rd degree Mason and a past presi-
dent of the Kentucky Humane Society. Tabb
was also a director of Oscar Farmer & Sons,
and a deacon at Second Presbyterian Church.

1910

WittiAM Lee Cazorr, Sr., an unsuccessful
candidate for governor of Arkansas in 1924
who was later elected to three terms as lieu-
tenant governor, died in October. Cazort was
appointed federal referee in bankruptcy for
the eastern Arkansas federal court district
in 1937 and later was referee for the entire
state. He retired from the federal court in
1964. Cazort was first elected to the Arkansas
House of Representatives from Johnson
County in 1915. He was speaker of the House
in 1917 and was elected to the state Senate
in 1919. He was president of the Senate in

1921.
1912

The Rev. THOMAs Boyer RurrF died in High
Point, N.C. on Oct. 4. A native of Rock-
bridge County, Rev. Ruff was a Presbyterian
minister and a former pastor of a number

 

Hero Is Honored

A new school—the Monroe Jun-
ior High School—dedicated in Oc-
tober in Wheaton, IIl., was named
in honor of James Howard Monroe,
‘66, an Army medical aide who was
killed in Vietnam in February, 1967,
The Congressional Medal of Honor,
the nation’s highest military award,
presented posthumously — to
Monroe in February, 1968. He at-
tended Wheaton High School be-
fore entering Washington and Lee
in 1962. The Carl Sandburg Ele-
mentary School, another new school
in the Wheaton Elementary School
District 36, was dedicated at the
same time. William H. Hillier, °38,
president of the Board of Educa-
tion for District 36, accepted the
two new buildings. Hillier, a lawyer,
is president of the Washington and
Lee alumni chapter in the Chicago
area.

was

 

 

 

of churches in Virginia and North Carolina.

1926

MaALcoLM HucH MacBrypre, judge of the
Martinsville and Patrick County Court, died
Oct. 10. Judge MacBryde, who had lived in
Martinsville since 1929, was an elder of the
First Presbyterian Church. He was a director
of the Henry County Plywood Corp.

1938

WALLACE J. CRONIN, of Fullerton, California,
died October 1. He apparently died of a
heart attack while playing golf.

195]

EARLE M. Brown, a Lynchburg attorney and
former member of the House of Delegates,
died Sept. 10. Brown served five two-year
terms in the Virginia House of Delegates.
He also served on the interstate cooperation
committee, and at one time was its chair-
man. Brown was a former assistant judge of
the Lynchburg Municipal Court and was on
the advisory board of the Piedmont area Boy
Scout Council. His civic activities were num-
erous, and he was a member of many social
and professional associations.

1954

Dr. Linwoop K. PAYNrE, JR., who was em-
ployed by Union Carbide Corp. in Charles-
ton, W.Va., died Sept. g in an airplane acci-
dent near Indianapolis, Ind. Dr. Payne ob-
tained his Ph.D. in pharmaceutical chemis-
try from the Medical College of Virginia in
1958. He joined the Charleston chemicals and
plastics division of Union Carbide after
working with E. I. du Pont de Nemours &
Co. in Kingston, N.C,

GENERAL LEE’S COLLEGE

A history of Washington and Lee University
by Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw

Professor of History and University Historian

Published by Random House, New York
Price: $10.00

This book is a work of devotion and painstaking scholar-
ship on the part of the University’s distinguished
historian. It will have deep meaning for everyone who
has shared the Washington and Lee experience. For all,
it is an important record of the development of one

of the nation’s great institutions.

s

ws A
aS ipa sy § ; .
’ 4 .

A
-
“i °
’
» rv ~ od

STi

me Oe ey iti

Fan re far 24 Here is the story of Washington and Lee University as
Bs ory, only Dr. Crenshaw could tell it—from its beginnings as a
small classical academy to a place of prominence in
education that continues today. It is a story of crises
met and overcome, of self-sacrifice for the good of the
institution, of changing perspectives, of unusual
educational foresight, of personalities, great teachers,
outstanding administrators, distinguished alumni

who personify the best of Washington and Lee.

.
‘

 

It is a book no alumnus of Washington and Lee, no
friend of Washington and Lee, no patron of higher
education can afford to be without. Be sure to obtain a
first edition copy. Please fill in and return the attached
order form today. Mail it to The Bookstore, Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450,
together with your payment of $10.00 plus a 75-cent
handling charge for each copy purchased.

 

ORDER FORM

THE BOOKSTORE
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me__ cop y(ies) of General Lee’s College, a
history of Washington and Lee University by Dr. Ollinger Cren-
shaw, at $10.00 each. (Include 75 cents handling charges for
each copy purchased).

 

Name

 

Address Zip Code

Payment of $______is enclosed.

WASHINGTON & LEE ALUMNUS

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

seul OyW i ao.

 

