 

JUNE 1969

Teg >

 

LUMNUS

<

 

 

 

 

“WASHINGTON . AND. > LE |

ALUMNUS |

VouuMe ve
hus 169

CONTENTS —

‘¥ Erdatee Reorganization | a z
“8 A Burst of Change — a me

Bes

Bs Dr. Crenshaw’ S Story
f 12 Downs on Communications.

16, oka gage ONY Te ee
A RAEDDB go SR RRS |

_ 24 People

— 26 Athletics |

27 Alumni
28 ee Notes.

“COVER

The doorway of Newcomb Hall
Lewis W. Adams

frames Dr.
(left) and his successor as Dean
of the School of Commerce and
Administration, Dr. Edward C.

Atwood, Jr. See story on Page g.

Editor:
William C. Washburn, °40

Managing Editor:
Romulus T. Weatherman

Associate Editor and Photographer:
A. Michael Philipps, ’64

Editorial Assistant:
Mrs, Joyce Carter

Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.:

Fred Bartenstein, Jr. les "41, President
John M. Jones, III, Vice-President
William C. Wesiburn "40 Secretary
Charles F. Clarke, Jr., '38, Treasurer

Board of Directors:

Fred Bartenstein, Jr., *41

Upton Beall, '51

Joe F. Bear, ’33

gre F. Clarke, Jr., 38
A. Christian Compton, °50

Warren H. Edwards, '39
John M. Jones, iil, 37

S. L. Kopald, Jr., ’48
Edward Ould, "29

Emil L. Rassman, "41
Beauregard A. Redmond, "BS
Richard H, Turrell, '49

Editorial Board:

Paxton Davis

Frank J. Gilliam, '17
Fred Bartenstein, Jr., °41
William C. Washburn, ’40
James W. Whitehead

Published in February, April, June,
August, October, and December by
Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Ine., Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Wash-
ington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Vir ee 24450. Sec-
ond class postage paid at Lexington,
Virginia, with additional oe
eee at Roanoke, Virginia, an
ashington, D.C.

 

_Nuwnen 8 rs | es

a 7

2 re Sr Ere

———

ee

and should bring response that will

Our  aaiearia 0 this 1 issue of the
B i dean: consists mainly of the words
of Fred Bartenstein Jr., ’41, the for-
| ward-looking president of the Wash-
_ ington and Lee Alumni, Inc. The
_ words were taken from his report to’
the annual _meeting of the Alumni
Association i in Lee Chapel on May 10. —

On the previous: day, Mr. Barten-

‘stein was accorded a high honor. He

was re-elected president of the Alumni_

Board of Directors. Seldom in recent
years has a _ president been elected to
two consecutive terms. Thus the Board
- paid tribute to Mr.
qualities of leadership and reaffirmed
tts confidence in his judgment and in
his understanding of the issues con-
_ fronting higher education today,
particularly as they relate to Washing-
ton and Lee and its sons. We believe
Mr. Bartenstein’s message verifies the
trust Washington and Lee alumni
have placed in him. His message:

“Our present Board of Directors
met yesterday [May g] and made good
progress in our current project of
selecting an alumni candidate for the
University Board of Trustees. As an-
nounced in a recent issue of the
alumni magazine, we will nominate
three candidates, present them to the
entire body of alumni for voting on
this summer. The winner of that vote
will be presented to the University
Board of Trustees for election to the
Board of Trustees at its fall meeting.
His term will be a minimum of three
years. It may be longer. The Uni-
versity Board is still considering this
aspect along with other organizational
matters of its own.

[The Board of Trustees in adopting
a sweeping reorganization of its struc-
ture provided for six-year terms for
alumni-nominated members. See story
elsewhere in this magazine.|

“We are highly enthusiastic about
this development, believing that it will
increase alumni interest. It opens a
new direct channel of communication
between us and the Board of ‘Trustees

Bartenstein’s

strengthen the University.
“Turning from that, we spent about

“two hours hearing directly from Presi-

dent Huntley and members of his staff
on current matters of concern and im-
portance to the University, and from

Mr. Jay Passavant, the president of

the Student Body, on matters of con-
cern and importance to the students

; and on their current attitudes. These

conversations were enlightening.
“Let there be no mistake: this is a
living, vital community, and it is
affected by the winds of reconsidera-
tion—of values, of institutions, and of
traditions—that should go on in the
University.
- “No matter how much we may wish

to go back in time—as in geography—

when we return to Lexington, we can
only do the latter. And when we think
deeply about it, we know we want
it to be that way. The students who
are here today are the spark of life
at W&L. The school has no tradition
if they don’t make it theirs—willingly.

“Our impression is that this is a
mature community—one in which
there is respect for this era of thought-
ful, questioning, extremely conscienti-
ous youth—listening to them, and try-
ing to accommodate their wish for
righting wrongs and being trusted.
(Their appearance is very often de-
ceiving.) One gets the impression that
the students feel this maturity and
respect and respond to it.

“These, however, are not times for
complacency. The University is very
much alive. But it must be alert to
stay alive. This is a dangerous time
for schools. It is a time that requires
the sophistication of looking ahead,
broad-mindedness, and boldness—and
a lot of work on the part of the ad-
ministration and faculty.

“They will need our understanding
and our strong support.”

The Alumni Association fully en-
dorsed Mr. Bartenstein’s message, vot-
ing unanimously to give his words
wider dissemination. It is a privilege
to give this space to his words and
to commend them to the attention of
every alumnus of Washington and
Lee. Mr. Bartenstein has our thanks
and our best wishes as he undertakes
a second year as head of Washington
and Lee Alumni, Inc.

—_

‘Y

 

 

 

 

 

CHANGE <1

 

Sweeping Trustee Reorganization Provides for Alumni Nominee

The University Board of Trustees has adopted far-
reaching changes in its organization. The reorganization,
approved by the Board in May, provides for:

= An increase in the size of the Board from 16 to
19 members, with the President of the University, con-
tinuing as an ex officio member.

= Basic six-year terms for all Trustees, replacing the
present system of membership for life, with provisions
for re-election to additional six-year terms.

=» Mandatory retirement from the Board at the end
of the calendar year in which a Board member reaches
age 70.

# Election, beginning in 1970 and every two years
thereafter, of one Trustee nominated by the organized
alumni of Washington and Lee, providing three alumni-
nominated members by 1974.

At the same time, the Board approved a plan of
implementing the changes this year, with the new plan
becoming effective in January, 1970.

Of immediate concern to alumni is the provision for
nominating an alumnus whom the Board of ‘Trustees
will elect to a six-year term at its October, 1969, meeting.

The procedures being established by the Alumni
Board of Directors call for choosing the alumni nominee
by mail ballot. The names of three candidates chosen
by the Alumni Board of Directors will be submitted to
alumni of record this summer. The winner of the ballot-
ing will be presented to the Board of Trustees for
election.

The ballots will be mailed to all alumni of record
in July and must be returned by August 15 in order to
be valid. No vote will be counted unless it is cast on the
official ballot.

The reorganization is the result of many years of
discussion and study by the Board of ‘Trustees. It car-
ries out many of the recommendations of the University’s
institutional Self-Study of 1964-66 concerning the Board’s
organization and policies.

The Board’s announcement of the reorganization
said these chief purposes will be achieved:

—The three members nominated by organized alumni
will give this valuable body of friends an opportunity
every two years to participate directly in the selection
of a Trustee for a six-year term, thereby involving
alumni more positively in the University’s programs and
policies and opening an additional channel of com-

2; CHANG

 

 

munications between alumni and the Board of Trustees.

—It will increase the number of active members of
the Board, thus extending the opportunity for Board
membership to a larger circle of friends of the Uni-
versity. This would bring to the University the benefits
of their advice and counsel, their active leadership in
many areas, and give the new Trustees the opportunity
to participate in the University’s growth and develop-
ment. Expanded membership will also provide a broader
base for considering such factors as age, profession, and
residence in the selection of Trustees.

—The devices of term memberships, customary retire-
ment from active membership at age 70, and staggered,
rotating memberships for Trustees nominated by the
alumni will provide systematic rejuvenation of the
Board’s vigor. These devices will enable the Board to
review the interest, contribution and general effective-
ness of members becoming eligible for re-election. They
will also allow Trustees who wish to retire from the
Board for reasons of health, business, or other consid-
erations to do so graciously.

—It will give the Washington and Lee Board of
Trustees a basic structure similar to that of many other
excellent private colleges and universities. The trend
among many such institutions is to move away from
life memberships for members of governing boards in
favor of prescribed terms and mandatory retirement
ages.

Under the new system, Trustees may be re-elected to
a second six-year term, age permitting. After completion
of two consecutive terms, a Trustee would be eligible
for subsequent re-election to additional terms, age per-
mitting, after a year’s interim.

The Board of Trustees will impose no limitations

 

on the eligibility for future service of alumni-nominated
Trustees, except those imposed upon regular members.
The Alumni Board of Directors will adopt provisions
concerning matters of renomination and eligibility of
an alumni-nominated ‘Trustee for a second consecutive
term. However, the Trustees could, if they wished and
if a vacancy existed, elect an alumni Trustee to a regular
second consecutive term.

For purposes of implementation, the present active
‘Trustees—excepting President Huntley whose member-
ship is ex officio—will be divided into three groups or
“classes” on the basis of seniority on the Board. Beyond
the period of implementation the class designations will
have no significance.

Trustees in Class I will serve initial two-year terms.
They are: John Newton Thomas of Richmond; Homer
Adams Holt of Charleston, W. Va.; Huston St. Clair of
Surfside, Fla., Rector; James Stewart Buxton of Mem-
phis; Joseph Lamar Lanier of West Point, Ga.; and
John Minor Wisdom of New Orleans.

‘Trustees in Class II will serve initial four-year terms.
They are: John Franklin Hendon of Birmingham;
Joseph Earle Birnie of Atlanta; Lewis Franklin Powell
Jr. of Richmond; Joseph Taliaferro Lykes Jr. of New
Orleans; John Millard Stemmons of Dallas; and Ross
L. Malone of New York City.

‘Trustees in Class II will serve initial six-year terms.
In this class are John William Warner of Washington,
D. C., elected to the Board just last year; the first alumni-
nominated ‘Trustee whose election will be confirmed by
the Board in October; and Trustees filling four expected
vacancies resulting from the Board’s expansion and the
retirement of inactive members.

Present active members of the Board will be un-
affected during their initial terms described above by the
new policy of mandatory retirement at age 70. Each may
complete his initial term under the class designations
established for implementation. But if a Trustee reaches
age 70 prior to completion of his initial term, he will
be ineligible for re-election. Trustees not affected by
retirement age provisions are eligible for re-election to a
second consecutive term of six years, or to a term of
shorter duration until they reach age 70. When a Trustee
reaches age 70, he may complete in office the calendar
year in which his birthday occurs. He would then be
succeeded by a new Trustee taking office at the first
meeting of the following calendar year.

The regular October meeting of the Board, under
normal circumstances, will become the “election” meet-
ing, with Trustees thus elected taking office at the regular
January meeting.

In addition to members mentioned earlier, the pres-
ent Board includes Christopher T. Chenery of New
York City, and Mrs. Alfred I. duPont of Wilmington,
Del., who have been inactive in Board affairs for sev-
eral years for reasons of health.

By Robert G. Holland

Director of Public Relations

A New Curriculum, a Change
Of Deans, a 12-12-6 Calender--
All This, and Maybe Girls, Too

Change suddenly exploded on the Washington and
Lee University campus in May. But the change, which
had been built on the bedrock of long preparation, was
bloodless and by common consent, characteristics which
contrasted markedly with occurrences at some other lead-
ing universities of the day.

In rapid-fire order, W&L’s community saw:

= A new curriculum, representing the first major re-
vision in more than go years, adopted by a majority vote
of the faculty. Student leaders hailed the innovation.

s A plan of student self-government in the dormi-
tories, including provision for social hours during which
time female guests may visit, also was adopted by the
faculty on the recommendation of a faculty-student-ad-
ministration committee.

s Appointment of committees to study the desirability
and feasibility of coeducation on the heretofore all-male
campus, and to study the thorny question of optimum
size of the University.

« Major shifts in the administration, with Dr. Lewis
W. Adams, Dean of the School of Commerce and Ad-
ministration, retiring from administrative duties, and
Dr. Edward C. Atwood Jr., Dean of Students, being
appointed to succeed him. Lewis G. John, was named
by President Robert E. R. Huntley to become Dean of
Students. John was Associate Dean of Students and Direc-
tor of Student Financial Aid and Placement. All appoint-
ments were effective July 1 this year.

These were the details of and background for May’s
happenings:

CURRICULUM

In September, 1967, Dean William W. Pusey III,
then serving as acting president of the University, ap-
pointed a 10-member faculty committee to study W&L's
curriculum with an eye to any needed modernization.
The committee elected Dr. Henry S. Roberts, professor
of biology, as its chairman.

During the following two academic years, the com-
mittee usually spent one afternoon a week in discussion
and debate of curriculum matters. The sessions were

Dr. Henry S. Roberts (right) steered the curriculum study through
two years of debate while continuing to teach full-time.

CHANGES

remembered by one member as “long, frequently dis-
couraging and often frustrating.” When it comes to cur-
riculum, it seems, unanimity of opinion is elusive.

Finally, Dr. Roberts recalled, the committee reached
agreement on a series of six concepts which laid the
groundwork for the new curriculum that was adopted
in May, 1969. The concepts were: (1) agreement that
curriculum changes were “desirable, and even necessary ”’;
(2) recognition that improvements in secondary education
made unnecessary many of the highly standardized and
rather rigid academic requirements in the curriculum;
(3) belief that in admissions W&L was increasingly at
a competitive disadvantage because of the lack of a
curriculum which appealed to high-quality students;
(4) a feeling that the explosion of knowledge coupled
with the existing pattern of five courses per semester was
forcing students into superficiality; (5) a desire for in-
creased flexibility to meet the needs of individual stu-
dents; (6) a belief in the desirability of providing the
sort of educational experience which would be difficult
or impossible under the existing two-semester calendar.

From these concepts emerged a majority report which
was adopted by the faculty after a series of amendments
and alternatives had been defeated. Thus Washington
and Lee’s new curriculum which will go into effect in
September, 1970, contains these features:

s A three-term academic calendar, consisting of a
sequence of a 12-week fall term, a 12-week winter term

Cael eg)

0 00,

 

 

4 GAANGE

and a 6-week spring term. Classes will begin in mid-
September and the first term, including examinations,
will be completed before Christmas vacation. The sec-
ond term will start after the Christmas vacation and
terminate, including exams, before Spring vacation. The
final six-week term—informally known as the “short
term’—will end about the same time as the current
calendar ends. During the “long terms’ students will
normally enroll in‘four courses instead of the currently-
customary five, and during the “short term” students will
have opportunity for independent or intensive study in
just one or two subjects of especial interest.

# Substitution of the term “Credit” for ‘‘Semester-
Hour” as the unit of academic credit. The intent of this
change is to dissociate the “worth” of a course from the
number of times or hours the class meets.

s Liberalization of distribution requirements. Under
this plan, students will select a minimum of 6 credits
from each of four broad groupings of academic disci-
plines in order to meet the general-education require-
ments for a degree. A total of 36 credits in distribution
will be required, and a maximum of 12 credits in any
one division may be counted toward these distribution
requirements, which are normally completed in the
freshman and sophomore years .

Under the new system, the student may choose freely
within the following divisions:

Division I—English, French, German, Greek, Latin,
Russian and Spanish.

Division IIl—Fine arts, history, philosophy and relig-
ion.

Division III—Biology, chemistry, geology, mathe-
matics and physics.

Division IV—Economics, political science, psychology,
sociology-anthropology.

The system differs considerably from the status quo,
because students are currently required to take some
specific courses for distribution, such as English 1 and
2, History 1 and g.

To be sure, the changes were vigorously opposed by
a number of faculty members who felt the “short term”’
would amount to an early vacation or “goof off” period
for students, or who thought the new distribution re-
quirements could lead a student to exclude, unwisely,
courses vital to his future preparation. Students had
endorsed curriculum change by a vote of 1,024 to 53
in a student government poll.

“We recognize that the first two or three years are
going to be difficult in making this major change,” Dr.
Roberts commented. ‘There are probably going to be
changes in the pattern of student enrollment; increased
work for the departments and, in some cases perhaps,
an overload of students in some departments.”

But President Huntley, Dean Pusey and faculty ad-

_——-
meme
Senders tnt T

   

   

*

   

as >

f A
ay

a J

eee

Student-faculty conferences like this one conducted by Prof. Jay
Cook will be frequent when curriculum changes go into effect.

 —
“—_

Md

—

     

  

we

a

vocates of the innovation are convinced that “this is just
a first step, a base, from which we can take off to do
things more imaginatively,” Dr. Roberts commented, in
an interview.

Example follow-up steps which may be studied in-
clude: revision of the faculty adviser system to make it
more effective; a special track system for “unusual” stu-
dents (for example, unusually capable students and
those with potential but lacking in background might
profit from differing academic approaches); interdepart-
mental programs, courses and seminars; and a university-
wide Honors Program. The Curriculum Committee has
been asked to stay in existence to study follow-up.

Since students will be taking four courses instead of
' this seems at first glance to
be a lightened academic responsibility. “But I think
what it really means,” Professor Roberts commented,
“is that the student will be doing as much work for 12

five during a “long term,’

credits in 12 weeks as he now does for 15 semester-hours
in 15 weeks. The program overall will be as demanding,
but with this difference: with only four-fifths the course-
load the student-should be able to achieve greater depth
in the courses he does take. He will have only four-fifths
the quizzes, tests, term papers and exams, so he will not
be as pushed.”

As for the short-term, during which students will
normally take only one or two courses, “it simply calls
for imaginative thinking on the part of the departments.
Departments which have taken the time to sit down and
consider it, have shown real enthusiasm. In general, we
anticipate one major effect of the change, which may
not be obvious, in that each faculty and staff member
will need to evaluate what he has been doing, why he
has been doing it and how he’s going to go about it in
the future.”

Among the possibilities for the “short-term” include

intensive individual or group study or research on or
off campus. The subject might be problem-oriented, so
that a group could attack a contemporary problem from
the standpoint of several academic disciplines. Dr.
Roberts noted that the committee favored a 6-week short-
term rather than the more prevalent 4-week short-term
system in order to provide increased flexibility. For
example, it might be more advantageous for some stu-
dents to take a regular course during the short-term
rather than special or independent study, he noted, and
6 weeks would be long enough for them to do so.

Students hadexpressed support for the changes
through a Student Curriculum Committee, plus the poll
of the entire student body. Commending the faculty de-
cision, Student Body President Jay Passavant of Beaver,
Pa. said that the high degree of communication between
students and the faculty is responsible for the lack of
campus disruption at W&L.

SOCIAL LIFE

Charged by a faculty resolution of November with
giving attention to the improvement of social life for
students living in dormitories, the Student Affairs Com-
mittee (SAC) presented a plan to the faculty on May 5—
just four days after the historic vote on the curriculum—
calling for liberalized dorm regulations. The dorm plan,
too, was adopted by the faculty, but will go into effect
in September, 1969, a year ahead of the new curriculum.

Under the new dormitory life regulations, the dorms
will be divided into self-contained residential units of
approximately 4o to 50 students. In the fall, the students
in each unit will draw up their own social regulations,
including those governing hours for female guests. ‘The
rules must be approved by 75 per cent of the students
within a unit. Each unit may set up its visitation hours
within the general guidlines of 5 p.m. Friday to mid-
night Sunday, with the understanding that no overnight
visits will be permitted. Proposed regulations will go to
a Student Control Committee, which is composed of
students, for approval or rejection. Decisions will also
be subject to review by the SAC, which consists of ad-
ministrators, faculty members and _ students.

In an interim period before the students’ own state-
ments of “social responsibility” are adopted, both fresh-
men and upperclass dorms will have social hours from
1 p.m. to midnight on Saturdays, and 1 p.m. to 8 p.m.
on Sundays. Freshmen units must use the interim hours
until after Thanksgiving vacation, when their own plans
can go into effect. Upperclass units may have their plans
approved earlier.

About 80 per cent of W&L students affiliate with fra-
ternities, and many of the upperclassmen either live in
fraternity houses or private homes or apartments. ‘The

What is so rare as a girl in a Washington and Lee sweater!
She won't be if the University adopts coeducation,

CHANGE -5

dormitory revisions were viewed as attempting to help
students who live outside the fraternity sphere have im-
proved opportunity for social life.

In its report to the faculty, the Student Affairs Com-
mittee stated the dorm plan should be “in the best
interests of the University because, unlike the present
system, it stresses a positive commitment to a self-gen-
erated set of values. In the main, the SAC plan is based
on self-government, one of the University’s governing
principles and most venerable traditions.”

The plan, the committee said, “emphasizes a positive
approach to dormitory discipline since it will function
largely on the strength of an affirmative commitment to
responsible standards of gentlemanly conduct rather
than, as now, on the dubious basis of imposed and
negatively-stated regulations.”

W&L will not abdicate its responsibility to promote
and uphold a “worthy set of values,” the SAC report
declared. Instead, the University will be in an improved
position to exercise its teaching role with regard to social
mores because within a general framework provided by
the University, dorm residents will have to learn to
achieve and maintain balance between individual free-
dom and the rights of others.

“In sum, then, the SAC plan will accord each student
the dignity of adult treatment, i.e., being regarded as
a gentleman possessing social and moral sensitivity, but
in turn, each student must honor this privilege extended
to him under the SAC plan by behaving as an adult.”

SIZE AND SEX

President Huntley appointed two committees to study
the related questions of size and coeducation at Wash-
ington and Lee—and the groups promptly were labeled

 

©: CHANGE

around campus as the “size and sex” committees.

Seven faculty and administration members and two
students were named to a committee on coeducation.
Dr. Louis W. Hodges, professor of religion, was designat-
ed chairman. Nine faculty members and two students
were appointed to a committee that will study the ques-
tion of the University’s future size. The question is,
should undergraduate enrollment be smaller or larger
than this year’s starting level of 1,272? Or should it
remain substantially the same? John M. Gunn, associate
professor of economics, will serve as chairman.

Also, alumni will be involved in the deliberations
through the 12-member Alumni Board of Directors.

In announcing the studies, President Huntley em-
phasized that the University has made no decision on
either question. Furthermore, neither committee is charg-
ed with the responsibility of producing a recommended
course of action. The committees are to study the de-
sirability and feasibility of the alternatives and make
reports of information that will help the faculty and
administration in decision making, President Huntley
observed.

The target date for completion of reports is the
end of the current calendar year. Since the issues of the
size of the University and any possible shift away from
single-sex admissions policies are closely related, Pro-
fessors Gunn and Hodges plan to meet often to coodinate
their work.

Should a decision be made for W&L to go coeduca-
tional, for example, the University would then face a
decision on whether to admit a reduced number of male
students in order to accommodate women, or to expand
the overall enrollment, a step which would involve in-
creased costs.

How to reconcile the advantages of close student-
faculty relationships that come from being small with
the advantages of increased opportunities for academic
specialization that derive from a large enrollment is a
question with which the size committee will cope. In
essence, Professor Gunn observed, “you want to be big
enough to have a ball game and small enough so every-
one can play.”

The study will not touch on the subject of enrollment
in the School of Law, which is conducting its own review
of optimum size.

As a result of largely unplanned growth, Washington
and Lee has seen its overall enrollment—including both
undergraduate and the law school—increase by nearly
400 students in the past 10 years. Total enrollment was
1,458 at the start of the current academic year. Most of
the increase has come through reduction in academic
attrition, and growth of the law school. A small under-
graduate increase resulted in 1965 when the size of the
entering class grew by approximately go, and nearby
Dutch Inn was leased to accommodate the extra students.

Meanwhile Washington and Lee is involved in a

continuing feasibility study with four women’s colleges
and three other colleges for men of a student exchange
program among the institutions. The other colleges are
Davidson in North Carolina, and Hampden-Sydney, Hol-
lins, Mary Baldwin, Randolph-Macon, Randolph-Macon
Woman's College, and Sweet Briar in Virginia. Under
the plan being discussed by the presidents of the insti-
tutions, a student from any of the colleges might attend
another of the participating colleges for a year or a
semester.

“We do not view the coeducation study as preclud-
ing the prospect of an exchange program,” President
Huntley commented.

Other faculty members of the coeducation committee
are: Eugene F. Corrigan, director of athletics; Dr. John
F. DeVogt, associate professor of commerce; Lewis G.
John, associate dean of students; Dr. Thomas C. Ime-
son II, assistant professor of chemistry; and Joseph E.
Ulrich, assistant professor of law. Student members are
William Michael Gottwald of Richmond, Va., and
Steven Bruce Sandler of Norfolk, Va.

Other faculty members of the size committee are:
Dr. C. Westbrook Barritt, professor of romance langu-
ages; Dr. Milton Colvin, professor of political science;
Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw, professor of history; Dr. George
H. Gilmer, associate professor of physics; Dr. H. Robert
Huntley, associate professor of English; Dr. James G.
Leyburn, professor of sociology; Buford §. Stephenson,
professor of German, and Dr. John C. Winfrey, assistant
professor of economics. Student members are Don Madi-
son Leonard of Roswell, N. M., and Charles Asbury Holt
Jr. of Blacksburg, Va.

CHANGES AT THE TOP

The retirement of Dr. Lewis Whitaker Adams as
Dean of the School of Commerce and Administration
after 20 years of service in that position prompted two
high-level appointments in the W&L administration.

# Dr. Edward C. Atwood Jr., 46, Dean of Students
since 1962, was appointed to succeed Dean Adams.

# Lewis G. John, 32, Associate Dean of Students and
Director of Student Financial Aid and Placement and
an honors graduate of W&L, was designated to be the
new Dean of Students.

Although Dr. Adams has reached the mandatory re-
tirement age for W&L deans of 65, he plans to continue
teaching elementary economics, investments and_busi-
ness finance. He is only the third full-time dean in the
school’s 64-year history. During his administration, the
school’s curriculum was revised substantially in 1956,
tripling the quantity of free electives for majors.

“A few words cannot even suggest the magnitude of
Dean Adams’ accomplishment for Washington and Lee
during his years here,” President Huntley commented.

|
{
.
:
;
;

 

Dean Edward C. Atwood Jr.

“The School of Commerce and Administration, as the
result of his wise guidance, has deserved and achieved
national recognition for its strong faculty, high stand-
ards and balanced curriculum.” (A profile of Dean Adams
appears elsewhere in the magazine.)

Dean Atwood, a native of New York City, came to
W&L in 1952 as assistant professor of economics in the
School of Commerce and Administration, and he was
promoted to associate professor in 1959. After two years
as a consultant economist for the General Electric Com-
pany in New York, Dr. Atwood returned to Washington
and Lee in 1962 to become Dean of Students. He suc-
ceeded Dean Frank J. Gilliam who stepped down in
February, 1962 as Dean of Students to devote full time
to the University’s admissions program.

During Dr. Atwood’s service as Dean of Students, a
Student Affairs Committee was established which, for
the first time, accorded students full voting rights on
a faculty committee. He currently serves as president of
the Virginia Association of Student Personnel Admini-
strators, is a member of the Virginia College Personnel
Association and the National Association of Student Per-
sonnel Administrators, and serves on the Board of the
Rockbridge United Virginia Bank.

He earned his B.A., M.A. and Ph.D. degrees at
Princeton University. Dr. Atwood came to W&L origin-
ally from Denison University where he was an instructor
in economics. Prior to that he was a teaching fellow at
Buffalo University and an instructor at Princeton.

Dean John received an award from the Washington
Literary Society during his senior year at W&L as the
student who had contributed most to the University.
After receiving his B.A. in 1958 at Washington and Lee,
John studied political economy for a year at the Uni-

CHANGE :7

 

Dean Lewis G. John

versity of Edinburgh in Scotland on a Fulbright Scholar-
ship. He was a Woodrow Wilson Fellow at Princeton
University in 1959-60 and received the Master of Public
Affairs degree there in 1961.

During miltary service, he was commander of a Nike
Battery in Edgemont, Pa. John joined W&L’s administra-
tive staff in 1963 as Assistant Dean of Students and Di-
rector of Student Financial Aid. He also was an instruc-
tor in economics.

In 1966, John was granted a two-year leave of ab-
sence to pursue his doctoral degree at Syracuse Uni-
versity’s Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs
under a Lehman graduate fellowship. He has completed
all work except the dissertation. Last August, he returned
to his work at W&L. He has served as chairman of the
University’s Student Financial Aid Committee and is a
member of the Admissions Committee and Student
Affairs Committee. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
Omicron Delta Kappa and Omicron Delta Epsilon.

In addition to administrative duties, John is an
instructor in political science.

President Huntley said that Dean Atwood “‘is ideally
suited to the position in terms of professional competence,
administrative talent, and perceptive insights concerning
the goals of the School of Commerce and of the entire
University.”

Commenting on the new Dean of Students, the Presi-
dent said: “Mr. John has demonstrated during his time
at Washington and Lee that he is a fine teacher and
administrator. These qualities coupled with his interest
and insight into student needs and problems qualify him
to be a fine Dean of Students. It is good to know that he
will be serving Washington and Lee in this important
position.”

SPEATURE

pe whs
7). # fe , 4
Vie ‘Bas

>
©

—

MOF

“
-

bis

ae

 

Dr. Crenshaw gives his undivided attention to a guest at the Bookstore-sponsored first sale of General Lee’s College.

‘Someone Compared the Arrival
Of the Six Tons of the Tome
To the Birth of a Baby

 

Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw is a serious historian. He is
also a witty one. In writing his history of Washington
and Lee University, General Lee’s College, he seems to
have kept in mind this paraphrase of Alice: “What is
the use of a history book without humor?” At any rate,
a thread of genteel wit runs through its pages. The
following remarks, made by Dr. Crenshaw before alumni
during Reunion Weekend in May, are offered here as
a fair sample of a good scholar at work—and sometimes
at play.

 

When I agreed to undertake the assignment of writ-
ing a history of Washington and Lee, many years ago,
I was well aware of the problems and pitfalls which
might confront the historian, though perhaps not all
of them. Having been trained in the historical seminars
at Johns Hopkins, I planned to apply the critical method
in gathering, organizing, and writing up my materials.
Indirectly word reached me that one alumnus thought
that the college historian should keep “his eyes upon
the stars’; and yet, while I hope that I have had lofty
ideals unimpaired, at the same time the historian must
base his account upon documentary evidence. He may
use tradition as a helpful handmaiden, but the hard-

nosed historian must rely upon unimpeachable con-
temporary proofs.

This being so, and the story of the rise and growth
of what became eventually Washington and Lee Uni-
versity covering the entire nineteenth century, with
portions of the eighteenth and a half century of the
twentieth, I began a search for what historians call
“source materials’ upon which to build my history. ‘The
University granted me a two-year leave of absence from
my teaching duties, during which I hied myself to Mr.
Mattingly’s office, and plunged into the archives, con-
sisting in the early years in the eighteenth century of
Trustees’ minutes, letters, documents, and miscellaneous
papers. Unfortunately for me, the official materials of
the era prior to 1770 are thin indeed, and were supple-
mented by investigation in Virginia manuscripts else-
where, of which more anon.

The ‘Trustees’ minutes and papers proved to be re-
warding, and as the years passed more full and useful.
The manuscript minutes of the faculty did not begin
until about 1842, and these, though full of minutiae (in
the tiresome manner of the petty agenda of faculty meet-
ings), were of prime importance to me. Other manu-
script collections at Washington and Lee, such as the
invaluable William Fleming Papers, and of course the
R. E. Lee Collection were essential; and Lexingtonians
came forward with family papers and_ suggestions,
especially the Reid-White Papers and the Glasgow
Family Papers. The Misses Gadsden allowed me to work
at their home ““The Pines’ in the magnificent Pendle-
ton Family Papers. And so it went locally.

Although my history was and is in a sense an official
history, it could never have been written merely by
consulting official records, else it would be only a view
“from the windows of the Chancellor’s office.” Following
leads in various manuscript collections in libraries from
the Harvard College Library to Austin, Texas, I also
found excellent manuscript sources at the New York
Public Library, on Virginia Presbyterianism at the
Witherspoon Building in Philadelphia, at the very
fine Historical Society of Pennsylvania, and at the
Library of Congress. As to be expected the University
of Virginia, the Virginia Historical Society, the Vir-
ginia State Library, the Southern Historical Collection
at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and
the Duke University Manuscript Collection provided
rich sources for my purposes. The Howard-Tilton Library
at Tulane contained the William Preston Johnston
Papers, excellent on the period of the Lees, and my
search took me to Austin where I examined the splendid
collection of the Massie Family of Nelson County, Vir-
ginia, especially good on the 1830's.

Perhaps I may be permited a little excursion into
an experience I had in one of the above mentioned
libraries, which shall remain nameless. My attention was
directed to a collection of family papers, which at first
yielded some orthodox run-of-the-mine information and
then! Presto! I encountered a series of letters from a
youth who had been a student at Washington Col-
lege to a former student and friend living in a small
Virginia town, addressed from Lexington. In my re-
searches I had never before or since encountered such
a stream of obscenity and scatology and _plain-spoken,
perhaps boastful description of a young male’s sexual
activities, and which resulted in his getting himself into
a serious scrape. From this, however, the young man
extricated himself, boasting to his friend the while of ac-
complishments along this line. Since my book is not
Portnoy’s Complaint (also published by Random House,
Inc.), I could not use this material. The youth, who
made such an unfavorable impression upon me from
a perusal of his correspondence, subsequently became
a leading citizen of his community, and a member of the
board of trustees of a college, the name of which would
be recognized quickly, should I mention it. Let me say,
too, that I have often wondered at the reaction of prim
librarians who may have, in the course of their duties,
inspected this correspondence.

Another brief episode comes to mind of a different
sort. In pursuit of the Ruffner Papers (President Henry
and his son William Henry), I found my way to the
Presbyterian Historical Society Library, at Montreat,
N.C., a pleasant resort place indeed, in the North Caro-
lina mountains near Asheville. I went on the train (which
could be done in those days), from which I alighted at

Hundreds of buyers of the history waited in line as Dr. Crenshaw
autographed every copy put before him.

 

reEATURE.9

Black Mountain, N.C., then the seat of an experimental,
in the minds of some, “radical” college (now defunct,
I believe). The taxi man, seeing that I was a bit un-
certain as to my destination, inquired if I were one of
“those nuts” going to Black Mountain College. Assured
that I was going to Montreat, he drove me there, where
I found rich treasures in the Ruffner Papers. I took my
meals at a sort of Presbyterian Assembly dining hall,
and very good, they were, where among other things,
I was taken for a Presbyterian clergyman. It seems that
a church meeting was being held there at the time,
so perhaps the mistake was natural, but I quickly dis-
abused the minds of my table-mates of that notion.
Though, it should be noted, I think, that teaching and
preaching were not and perhaps even nowadays, are
not so far apart. At Montreat, also, it was my good
fortune to meet and talk with the late Dr. Samuel Chiles
Mitchell, who had been president of several universities
and later a distinguished and inspirational history pro-
fessor at the University of Richmond. Before leaving
the subject of Montreat, I may add, that if one is in
need of alcoholic beverages, the latter should be trans-
ported in one’s own luggage, for not surprisingly, none
was in evidence on the grounds.

Students of eighteenth century America know that
one of the great manuscript depositories in the nation
regarding Virginia of that period is the Lyman C. Draper
Collection at the Historical Society of Wisconsin at
Madison. In the era before the Civil War, Dr. Draper
traveled through the Old South gathering letters and
papers of the pre-Revolutionary years of the Revolution,
of the Revolution itself, and of the age following.
Southerners of that time did not realize the value and
importance of what they had, and were willing to sell

ed
g af
a

-

Ey}

TO. FEATURE

or give to Draper the old letters in trunks in their attics.
Later some in the South became embittered against Dr.
Draper, but from a more detached viewpoint, we should
be grateful to him for the collection and the preserva-
tion of these early historical materials.

Therefore, I wended my way to Madison (thank
Heaven I don’t have to be in that revolution-torn uni-
versity city today!), where I was a guest of the dis-
tinguished Professor of History at the University of
Wisconsin, the late William Best Hesseltine, ’22, and
his charming wife, the former Katherine Kramer of
Lexington, Virginia. They made my stay in Madison
a sheer delight, and I gathered much of what I wanted
in the Draper Collection. So you can see that research
was not all drudgery.

Another research jaunt took me to the Cyrus Hall
McCormick Historical Association Library, a_ private
library maintained by the heirs of the inventor of the
reaper, Cyrus H. McCormick, a native of Rockbridge
County, and friend and admirer of General Lee’s. The
McCormick family, especially Harold F. McCormick,
himself much in the newspapers during the 1920's, con-
tinued interest in the history of Virginia and the history
of American agriculture. The McCormicks in that decade
engaged the services of a professional historian, Herbert
A. Kellar, trained in history at the University of Wis-
consin to become director of their Historical Association
Library, which was housed in the old brownstone car-
riage house of the McCormick residence (also brown-
stone) on Rush Street, Chicago, just off Michigan
Avenue. Mr. Kellar and his delightful wife Lucille, also
a historian, had been sent to Lexington, where during
the 1930's they enjoyed life at the delightful Dutch
Inn of Lexington, and gathered historical manuscripts
here in Lexington and environs. Among the collections
they obtained were the James D. Davidson Papers from
the late Mrs. Estill, now at Madison where the Mc-
Cormick Collection eventually was deposited.

Therefore, one June day I turned up at the Mc-
Cormick carriage house door, but Dr. Kellar had not
arrived for the day. With my briefcase and note pads,
I seated myself on the stoop of the building, and after
awhile the director arrived. While all was in good
order at the Library, and Dr. Kellar gave me a hearty
welcome, it was obvious that the McCormicks were
planning to dismantle their private library and were
seeking a place to deposit it and the director. Since I
was the sole researcher on the premises, Dr. Kellar ush-
ered me into his well furnished office, asked me to be
seated in the over-stuffed chair at his desk, and after
lighting a long fragrant Havana cigar, Herbert began
to inquire about all his old friends in Lexington: Mrs.
Owen, Miss Mary Monroe Penick, her sister Mrs.
Marshall Wiltshire, President and Mrs. Gaines, and a
long list of others, all of whom I could give a full report
upon. While in the midst of this recital, the luncheon

hour arrived, and Herbert, a gourmet of the first rank,
invited me to walk down Rush Street a few blocks where
we entered a restaurant, which he well knew for its ex-
cellent cuisine.

We continued our conversation about Lexington and
its people until beyond 2:30 p.m., and then sauntered
back to the library. Soon closing time came and I had
enjoyed the day but had got little done. Next day I was
able to plunge into all the McCormick manuscripts,
some of which have been incorporated into the pages
of my book. The Kellars also invited me to their well-
furnished apartment in Chicago several times for dinner,
where good food and history were intermixed. I shall
always recall with gratitude these days with the Kellars
in the city, when things were not quite so dangerous,
although they warned me even then, when returning at
night to the hotel, not to walk down dark, deserted
side-streets.

Before moving on to other topics, I wish to remark
upon the rather unsatisfactory condition of manuscripts
generally at Washington and Lee when I began my
work shortly after World War II. The situation has been
improved considerably since then although it is my im-
pression today that we much need a trained archivist
to take care of the priceless manuscripts in our possession.
My friend and colleague, Professor Moger, has super-
vised the R. E. Lee Collection very well over the years,
and we do the best we can. My suggestion, however,
is than in addition to adequate personnel for this pur-
pose, we make available a listing and description, if
not an indexing, of the manuscripts at Washington and
Lee.

5

ont
<

_

Senior John Wolf and his girlfriend Susan Walker congratulate
Dr. Crenshaw on his work.

 

|
|

 

Another important source of information about the
history of Washington and Lee is the newspaper.
Fortunately, we have almost complete files of Lexing-
ton newspapers available, some now on microfilm, from
the 1790's. In this connection, I journeyed to the Ameri-
can Antiquarian Society at Worcester, Massachusetts,
where I found Staunton newspapers of the 1790's, and
of course to Richmond for the Williamsburg Virginia
Gazette and Richmond newspapers. But the most com-
plete sources came from the old Lexington Union, the
old Lexington Gazette, the Rockbridge County News
(since the early 1880's), and several ephemeral news-
papers whose lives were short. Worthy of particular
mention was Matthew W. Paxton, '76, who owned and
edited the Rockbridge County News until his death in
the 1930's. Mr. Paxton exhibited an unusual interest in
the happenings on the campus of W&L (and VMDJ),
personally covering events in a very complete way. This
was a godsend to the historian, and I for one could
hardly have written the history without the files of the
County News (now the News-Gazette). Mr. Paxton was
an acute observer of the passing scene, showing himself
to be far ahead of his times on occasion. An example,
which I have referred to in the book, is of his penetra-
tion of the propaganda-ridden Bryce Report of 1915,
for which, in the hysteria of the time, he was branded
as a pro-German—something exceedingly far from the
truth.

Newspapers such as the New York Times and the
Baltimore Sun (then much read in the Valley of Vir-
ginia,) the Boston Transcript, and various Southern
papers, yielded items of importance.

Enough of sources for the present. A historian must
file and organize his notes, and this I did after return-
ing to full-time teaching, using the summers often for
writing and occasionally for additional research, for
materials have a way of turning up—alas, sometimes after
a book has gone to press. All this caused frequent re-
visions in getting the manuscript typed up in_pre-
liminary form. At first we had comtemplated a uni-
versity press as our publisher, and after I had finished
a lengthy, heavily-documented version of the first half
of the history, I sent it to a press for a reading. I grant
that it was too lengthy, but I was not prepared for the
type of criticism I received. The anonymous reader
(presumably a historian), while commending the research,
complained at what he said was my hypercritical attitude,
and the fact that I related a number of student pranks,
disciplinary difficulties, etc. He went on to say that, if
[ were writing a book about Harvard’s history no doubt
all would be well. But, as for Washington and Lee
alumni, they were too sensitive and perhaps naive to
swallow such anecdotes. All this is now happily in the
past, but I can say that my indignation was prodigious,
and I was very glad later to be shed of that publisher.

Some years ago President Cole made contact with

reATURET

40106 hhed
om oe 2)

» rt

~20-GENERAL LEE’ S
COLLEGE TH wae
a

 <
4
‘e

Sad
~ RANDOM HOU
Pant z

o .
*
4

*

ASHINGTON © LEE

~ UNIVERSITY BICSTR.

LEXINGTON, VA,

MRSLBETTY MUNGER

*
cm. 4
. ‘Kir

Dr. Crenshaw takes his first good look at the book as thousands
of copies are unloded from a huge van.

the commercial publisher in New York, Random House,
Inc., and after my very lengthy manuscript had been
trimmed down to manageable proportions with the aid
of Mr. M. M. Kreeger of Tulane, it was sent for a read-
ing to Mr. Albert Erskine, Vice President and Executive
Editor of Random House. Mr. Erskine kindly agreed
to read the manuscript, and reported favorably upon
it, whereupon after some further delays caused by his
trip to Europe, the book finally, after its long journey,
went to the printer, with the result you have before you.
From the summer of ’68 until last February, I shuttled
back and forth from Woodrum Field to LaGuardia, for
conferences at Random House over the manuscript,
illustrations, format, design, etc. Mr. Erskine, a native
of Memphis, and friend of President Cole’s proved to
be a most understanding editor. Pleasant interludes
occurred each time I visited Random House when I was
invited to be his guest at luncheon at his club, the
Century Association on E. 43rd. St., where we managed
to consume a martini or so, my host preferring vodka,
and I sticking to gin. The Club, incidentally, reminds
one of the cartoonist’s idea of a New York men’s club,
with guite a lot of the “old boys” sitting about.

Mr. Erskine and I were much en rapport, and at
last the illustrations and the index were checked, and
the manuscript, after a final review by a charming
graduate of Swarthmore, Miss Jason, was sent to the
printer's. Then galleys came to me, and at long last
on the final day of April, a van pulled up at the campus
bookstore. Someone compared the arrival of the six tons
of the tome to the birth of a baby. In any event, the
deed is done, and judgments are now in charge of the
reviewers and readers.

 

12; FEATURE

Youth and Communications:
They ve Recewed Messages
We Never Thought We Sent

 

Hugh Downs, host of television’s “Today” show,
addressed the annual Phi Beta Kappa-Society of the
Cincinnati: Convocation at Washington and Lee on
April 12. He holds many awards for achievement in
broadcasting, has composed many musical works, has
been honored for his work in mental health and air
safety, is the author of two books and is writing two
more, one on science and one on human maturity, and
is a special consultant to the United Nations on Middle
East refugee problems. He was initiated into Gamma
of Virginia Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa with 27 students
and five recent graduates. The following article was
adapted from his address “The Role of Communication
in Human Affairs’:

 

The greatest political speech I ever heard was de-
livered on January go this year in Washington by Vice
President Spiro Agnew. It was five or six hours after
he and President Nixon had been installed in office.
The President introduced him to a crowd at the Wash-
ington Hilton, and Vice President Agnew got up and
said, “I think on this occasion the best thing for me
to say is, Thank you, Mr. President.” Then he sat down.

You notice how devoid of factual error, of unful-
fillable promises and oratorical bombast that speech was.
[ took the trouble to memorize it because I was so im-
pressed. It is important in communicating things to
know that the recipient comprehends the termonology,
the symbolism, and the language. It is important to
know whom you are speaking to.

As recently as six years ago most of us still believed
that increased communication would more or less auto-
matically increase understanding and social cooperation.
Most of us still want to believe that increased com-
munication will, in the long haul, produce that effect.
But I think we are forced to concede now that, for the
moment at least, communication has frightened people.
It has frightened comfortable people because it has
demonstrated its effect on the activist young, the black
and the poor. It has frightened the young because it has
proved ineffective in bringing about immediate redress
of social wrongs. It has frightened blacks by showing
itself to be an instrument of the white power structure.
It has frightened whites by reporting on their bigotry
and racism.

Suddenly information overload has stunned and

 

panicked society by giving a glimpse of things we are not
sure that we want to see. Suddenly what had been a
demand for dialogue has changed in complexion. It has
darkened into an attack on dialogue. Yesterday’s civil
rights workers and placard carriers and peace orators
appear to a certain extent to have yielded to today’s
super militants, hecklers and choreographers of what
Eric Sevareid calls “stylized violence.” Yesterday's inte-
grationist is scorned by today’s separatist. And the very
rights being demanded or enhanced by _ yesterday's
activist seem to be trampled by today’s. Republican
Governor Jack Williams of Arizona was recently heckled
and shouted down by a demonstration staged, by of
all things, a Young Republican Club of Phoenix.

And there is indeed some evidence of conscious plan-
ning on the part of what has been called the “establish-
ment left” to destroy or endanger all rights with the
knowledge that repression will inevitably follow. The
reasoning, if you can follow it, is that a repressive society
will crumble more quickly. Now this is strangly like
chopping out dry rot and supporting timbers before shor-
ing up overhead weight in full knowledge that you are
squarely under the tonnage. But there is a flavoring of
this suicide impulse noticeable now in the forces of
change loosed on society.

My very act of citing this appears to put me in step
with the reaction against the complexion of today’s dis-

sent. I do not wish to be in step with this reaction be-
cause reaction is only another step in escalating confron-
tation. The need now, it seems to me, is clearly for an
understanding of this widening gap, and merely to
bridle is to create a larger trap for moderates of both
sides. I hope to avoid this trap by examining briefly the
responsibility of those who superintend our communi-
cations conduits, and by ‘“‘those’’ I mean writers and
commentators, teachers, academy administrators, heads
of broadcast networks and stations, newspapers, books
and periodicals and, to extend the umbrella somewhat,
commissioners of Federal communications, associations
of self police, statesmen, advertisers, and members of the
military who are in a position to advise a baffled civilian
leadership.

You might have noticed that I exempted the scien-
tist and the artist from this group, not because they are
unimportant—they might be the most important of all—
but because, it seems to me, that by and large they have
been doing their jobs honestly and painfully. I doubt
that anybody can follow his conscience in these days
except painfully.

There is a fundamental kinship between artists and
scientists. They both seek truth more than conflict, and
to the extent that they emphasize truth over comfort they
serve their fellow men more than those who follow any
other walk of life.

Now I can’t believe that this is because scientists and
artists are better people than people who follow other
professions. It is rather because science and art provide
more direct modes of transmission than the fields of busi-
ness, education, law, or politics. The scientist deals with
particles, waves, genes, cells, and principles that he feels
he has derived from some manipulatable real universe,
useful for periods of time and then outgrown. But he
doesn’t make them up out of whole cloth. They are re-
lated in some meaningful way to the world’s behavior
as he observes it; so he seeks a truth.

Likewise, the artist, from a different angle, looks for
truth he has direct feelings about—facets of the uni-
verse—feelings that are either lost or were never devel-
oped by other men, and he gives expression to these feel-
ings in the hope that his products will reawaken or in-
spire the same feelings in others. But he does so very di-
rectly. He has the freedom to work without intermedi-
aries,

Am I saying then that dedicated lawyers, educators,
or commentators are not interested in truth, that a re-
sponsible statesman or jurist does not work as hard to-
wards something true as a scientist or artist? I think in a
way I am saying that, but I want to examine it further.
I am suggesting that law, even though it is an ordinance
of reason directed to the common good and is necessary
and blessed, is a fiction and not so immediately concerned
with truth as with order and self consistency. I am sug-
gesting that academic education is unavoidably involved

FEATURE “15

in molding as well as enlightening students. I am sug-
gesting that statesmen never attain statesmanship with-
out first becoming politicians, and the expedience nec-
essary to successful politics is hardly truth-seeking. I am
suggesting that even the most enlightened and socially
conscious business man who feeds back into society the
sum portion of what he takes out must still be oriented
primarily to the health and growth of his enterprise. I
am suggesting that editorial writers and crusading broad-
casters have to work through printing presses and elec-
tronic complexes supported by money from elsewhere,
and they have to appeal to a public whose prejudices are
precious and whose ability to turn you off in one way
or another is formidable.

I deem no alternate system superior to the one we
have, but I think we have to be frank about the short-
comings of the one we have. The educator or the cru-
sading journalist may be as dedicated and as able as
the scientist or artist, and he may be helping to move

 

‘The major threats to humanity
could be dealt with immediately”

 

toward truth, but he is simply not able to function in
as direct a way as the artist or scientist. I am suggesting
in short that it is the nature of certain disciplines to miti-
gate their truth seeking for reasons of survival, and that
it is in the nature of men to filter out and edit what truth
comes their way for reasons of comfort. This may be, if
not our greatest danger, our greatest tragedy and the
reason why correctable wrongs continue and mount in
our civilized world—because human communication lacks
the kind of honesty it must have to be meaningful.

The tragedy lies in the fact that the major threats to
humanity could be dealt with immediately through tech-
niques already developed. If the earth were to come apart
at the core, or if the continents were sinking under the
sea, or if the sun were destined in 18 months, say, to be-
come a nova and incinerate the planet, no possible hu-
man action could save us and no possible blame could
attach to humanity. But instead look at the problems that
we have. They are enormous. We have runaway popula-
tion increase, nuclear stock-piling, world hunger and pol-
lution of our limited supply of air and water. Any one
of these clearly indicates ruin, yet we have the means at
hand right now to reverse the tide of each.

The nutritional yield of the earth under present
farming methods could easily feed six billion, we are
told—twice the number of people on earth. That's with-
out developing unknown techniques, or combing the
sea, or farming Antarctica, or anything like that. The
distribution of foodstuffs hardly challenges our capabili-
ties. The separation of sex from reproduction is a reality
today, and it has been demonstrated in India that educa-

14. FEATURE

tion can be effective in freeing people from the cruel
trap of regarding children as old age insurance. If re-
sponsible elements were in control of all the world’s
governments the arms race could be halted and reversed.
Certainly no technical challenge would be easier. It isn’t
even a challege to stop dumping hundreds of thousands
of tons of pollutants daily into our atmosphere and our
water supply.

Now these problems are all solvable. Their magnitude
has been defined, indicated action started, grim alterna-
tives to action published. Why the paralysis? Is it be-
cause we are not getting something across? In an age in
which mass media persuasion has been praised and
damned for effectiveness in selling stupendous amounts
of goods and services, might we be failing to transmit or
to receive information that may be utterly necessary now
to our survival on earth?

I cannot abandon the belief that there is some con-
nection between information and understanding and be-
tween understanding and human good. Whatever the
shortcomings of mass media, the public over a long pe-
riod tends to assess information soundly. George Wash-
ington expressed his belief that the American public if
given adequate information about things would arrive

 

‘But now humanity seems to be
recoiling from its own voice”’

 

at just conclusions. There is no reason not to believe
this. Our problem now is that the leisurely pace and
dignity of public wisdom no longer seem suited to the
erratic wobble and acceleration of dangerous events and
trends that we find ourselves in. Journalism, both elec-
tronic and print, has tried to respond to the call for in-
formation by putting out data in much greater volume.
But now humanity seems to be recoiling from the sounds
of its own voice and the sight of its real face.

As the aging Don Quixote surrounded by mirrors
on the shields of his foes cracked under the realization
that he was not what he thought himself to be, so we
seem to be reeling under the blow of a sudden self-knowl-
edge. Our provincialism is exposed by the world news;
our biological fraility and indelicacy exploited by
commercials. Our nationalism and ideological strife seem
for the first time as fictions no longer tenable on a planet
that photographed from a quarter million miles out
shows no national boundaries, no ideological barriers,
none of the properties or notions that men have killed
each other for, claiming or believing that God was on
their side. And perhaps the media do not transmit all
the right data or in the right perspective and proportion,
or in a way that would bring about reflections and con-
sideration, instead of reaction and confrontation.

But I don’t warm to the idea of any government or

 

‘The flaws of today’s journalism
may be flaws of habit”

 

self-appointed arbiter of public information who would
presume to manage our affairs. One of the criticisms of
television is that it fails to convey adequately an over-all
picture of the forces and pressure points bending society.
It is said to spotlight anger and action and to think and
report in organizational blocks, overlooking the un-
affliated and their quiet feelings.

Joseph P. Lyford says television and, the press, too,
concerns itself with demonstrations and the mass rather
than the human condition in the particular, and it has
far less courage in tackling the abstract than the concrete
and the easily perceived. This is why we rarely get a look
via television at the momentous things happening to us
that can’t be filmed the way we photograph a riot or the
surface of the moon. It is why television is not telling us
very much about the nature of power, about the ideas
that are quietly generating enormous changes in life, or
about the essential fraudulence of violence. If the day
comes when television is freed from its independence on
what this or that angry crowd is doing we will get a very
different perspective of what is going on inside this
country and inside our heads.

[ am not sure that Professor Lyford isn’t making an
unwitting comment about something that isn’t going on
inside his own head. When he says television isn’t telling
us about the nature of power or ideas that are quietly
generating enormous changes in our lives he means by
“us,” I think, people my age and his. And as perceptive
as he is, he has overlooked the fact that “us” includes
everyone under 25, and this means a very large group who
not only have seen a total of 22,000 some hours of tele-
vision each, but who have seen it in a way not given to
older viewers.

The fact is that television is giving us these very
things if we have eyes to see. And it is giving them not
through any heroic system or courage on the part of
broadcasters but because it is unavoidable. Now these
are the very things the young have been assimilating, and
to the extent that they have begun to act on them the
second charge leveled at television is true—that it is re-
sponsible for hastening much of the alienation and dis-
sent of this new generation. I don’t think it is solely re-
sponsible, but it has a responsibility.

When my son was 8 or g years old, we were watching
a television drama together. I was quite absorbed in it,
and this illustrates what I am talking about. There was
a sick man in a hospital room, and he leaned his head
back against some pillows. The bed was right against
the wall. My son nudged me, grinned and said “The
wall moved.” And I said, “What?” He said, “The wall

 

moved when he put his head back.” He said, “It’s just
made of cloth you know.”

Now you see how tricked I was. I was concentrating
on the drama, taken in by the make-believe, and where
I saw a hospital room, he saw scenery of cloth and
laughed. Instead of a sick man and doctors and nurses
he saw actors and actresses. He saw it, in other words,
as it really was.

So when the young today see political conventions
and war footage they see them as they really are. The
middle-aged man who receives a report that 100 of the
enemy have been killed in a battle in Vietnam more or
less automatically thinks that communism has diminished
by that amount of body count. Now the young man, on
the other hand, may realize that of that 100 killed, a
half dozen or so were communists, 20 may have been
North Vietnamese regulars, 30 some Viet Cong or sym-
pathizers, and the rest south Vietnamese teen-agers who
had no political indoctrination, but who happened to
get in the way and happened not to be on our side even
though they were citizens of the country we claim to be
helping. Further, the young viewer perceives that the fol-
ly and unreal view among those in power is both per-
vasive and persistent.

Television cannot help showing what it shows. How
much of it we see and how much gets through in great
measure depends on our age and conditioning. The flaws
of today’s journalism may be flaws of habit. In spite of
some enclaves of courage the whole industry tends to
caution, and I not sure that this is entirely reprehensible.
There is good reason for some caution. Expediently, too
much of a lead tends to break the thread, and from a
moral standpoint journalism must get its orders for di-
rection from well springs in the public itself. Mass com-
munication further reflects private communication in
language and symbols and patterns responses, but an ex-
cess of caution comes from a love of comfort, and pro-
crastination can affect industries as well as individuals.

 

“I can’t prescribe for society...
But I do have an opinion”

What is the responsibility, then, of this roster of
movers and shakers, beleaugured, so often the targets of
public dudgeon—the educators, the communicators, the
editors, the lawyers, the government commissioners, the
politicians, and the generals? I would answer: To func-
tion beyond immediate tasks, to question premises con-
Sstantly, to strive for perspective and balance, to examine
rather than merely deplore, to aim at liberation rather
than control, to distrust the rigidity of traditions, to
avoid occupational provincialism, and to try to under-
stand all, over and above doing their job. And I think
that when that kind of perspective comes to anyone en-

FEATURE -I5

gaged in any walk of life it is not only a reward to so-
ciety but it must be an immense reward to the individ-
ual.

A thing that illustrates this is a story that I am very
fond of. Three men were in a field, and they were all
moving stones. They were all doing the same thing. One
at a time they were asked what they were doing. And the
first man said, “I’m hauling rocks.”” The second man said,
“I’m putting up a wall.” And the third man, when asked
what he was doing, said, “I am building a cathedral.”
When you can take a look at how you fit into society,
where you belong and what your task is, and how you
are contributing to it, this both comes from and rein-
forces a wider perspective and must be personally re-
warding as well as rewarding to society.

I can’t prescribe for society or even for the industry
of which I am a part. But I do have an opinion and I
suppose it is a quiet note of optimism. In addition to the

 

“If the pace frightens us, let us
reflect that fright is not doom”

 

artists and scientists, there are some educators, commen-
tators, politicians, and businessmen who feel concern
for society and who within the framework of their stulti-
fying disciplines move subtly and firmly toward making
the human community better. This is what the young
are striving for and, it may be the young tend to over-
look the aid and comfort of some elders. It doesn’t mat-
ter. They deserve the credit for awakening. They have
gotten messages that we never thought we sent, but we
sent them. And now we will want to live with them.

Let us reflect and consider; let us back their worth-
while commitments; and let us absorb their errors and
not dismiss their impatience. Let us honetly revise our
address to institutions because, if we can’t do this at all,
then the institutions may well deserve to be pulled down.
The bloody inertia of human failings might be inevi-
table but a tragic outcome is not inevitable.

In the prehistoric ushering in of homosapiens an age
was thousands of years. At the dawn of civilization an
age might be said to have been hundreds of years. ‘To-
day an age might be a few years or a few months. And if
the pace frightens us, let us reflect that fright is not
doom, that man’s major problems are not beyond solu-
tion, that the frenzy of a new generation is largely a
reflection of a need for reform and for better understand-
ing by an old generation still in power, and that the
need for faster accumulation of public wisdom is per-
haps our greatest challenge. There can be no doubt
that communication is a key to accelerating that wisdom.
There can be no -doubt that those in charge of com-
munications are moving on this need simply as fast as
they are able or as they are forced.

16:DEVELOPMENT

 

 

CM nifiutle fays tliat toleeme an

Mle Mitel any fry fun Meret
ay lll is DSi

WMC
Ul? C,

 

 

Two Handsome Gifts for Education at Washington and Lee:
The Flint Bequest of $600,000

Washington and Lee University has
been bequeathed approximately $600,-
ooo from the estate of Mrs. Charles R.
Flint of Washington, D.C. It is one
of the largest bequests in the Uni-
versity’s history.

By mid-May the University had re-
ceived $485,213 from the estate, and
further distributions under the terms
of her will are scheduled to be made.

Mrs. Flint, who died on Dec. 11,
1967, was the widow of a leading busi-
ness entrepreneur of the late 1800's
and early part of this century. Mr.
Flint, a native of Maine, was a mer-
chant, shipper, banker and financier.
On his 80th birthday, Mr. Flint was a
member of the board of directors of
the International Business Machines
Corp., and chairman of IBM’s execu-
tive and finance committees. He died
in 1934 at the age of 84.

University President Huntley term-
ed the bequest an important addition
in a time of fiscal need at the pri-
vately-supported college. He said in-
come from the bequest is currently
being used to help meet operating ex-
penses pending a decision on whether
the most appropriate use would be
for endowment or other purposes.

The terms of the will specify that
Washington and Lee officials should
be free to apply the money for what-
ever needs of the University they con-
sider to be most pressing.

The Flints had no connection with
Washington and Lee. However, Mrs.
Flint learned of W&L and became in-
terested in it through conversations
with an alumnus.

Mrs. Flint expressed interest in
W&L’s history, its commitment to
higher learning, the student dress and
behavior, and the composition of the
board of trustees. She requested and
received considerable information on
the University before deciding to
make W&L one of her beneficiaries.

Other recipients of major aid from
the Flint Estate include the Wash-
ington Heart Association, Cancer So-
ciety, Arthritis and Rheumatism As-
sociation, and the Columbia Light-
house for the Blind.

Mrs. Flint, a native of McKinney,
Texas, was raised in Washington and
attended public schools there. She did
not attend any institution of higher
learning. Her father was associated
with the Western Union Co. She mar-
ried Charles Ranlett Flint in 1927.

Mr. Flint spent a great deal of his
life in the New York City area in
the company of financial giants of his
era. He was a pioneer investigator of,
and invester in, the automobile and
airplane, and was involved in some
of the first great industrial combina-
tions. He became president of the
United States Electric Lighting Co.
in 1879, and displayed the first in-
candescent light in a New York resi-
dence. The firm later combined with
the Westinghouse Co.

The title “Father of Trusts” was
bestowed upon Mr. Flint by Chicago
newspapers when during the 1900 Mc-
Kinley-Bryan presidential campaign,
political boss Mark Hanna asked Flint
to defend industrial consolidations in
a speech before the Illinois Manufac-
turing Association.

Flint remarked in his speech: “A

combination of labor is a trades union, —

a combination of intelligence a uni-
versity, a combination of money a
bank—a combination of labor, intel-
ligence and money is an industrial
consolidation—Work, Brains and
Money.” McKinley ordered 500,000
copies of the speech distributed
around the country.

 

7

~~

The Dana Foundation Grant

The University has received a grant
of $250,000 from the Charles A. Dana
Foundation of Greenwich, Conn., to
help provide the University with new
facilities for its School of Commerce
and Administration.

The School of Commerce and Ad-
ministration has been identified by
President Huntley as among four areas
of major need in the institution’s
physical facilities. Other high priority
projects under study at Washington
and Lee include a $2,200,000 addition
to Doremus Gymnasium, new facilities
for the School of Law, and a new
central library.

President Huntley said the Dana
gift is “especially gratifying and
timely.”” He added: “This grant of a
quarter of a million dollars will give
impetus to our planing, and it will
help focus attention on the School’s
requirements among alumni and other
friends on whom we are depending
for financial assistance.”

He said the Dana grant is a “‘sub-
stantial fraction” of the total funds
that will be sought to provide new
facilities for the School of Commerce
and Administration. The total cost
of the project is as yet undetermined,
pending decisions on how best to
solve the School’s requirements for

improved facilities and additional
space.
Alternatives under consideration

include an entirely new building or
the relocation of the School in a
larger existing building that would
be completely remodeled for its
specific needs.

“We are encouraged by preliminary
studies that the needs of the Com-
merce School can be met adequately
in a remodeled McCormick Library,
once a new library facility has been
built,” President Huntley said.

President Huntley said the Dana
Foundation was ‘“‘most understanding”’
in regard to the status of Washington
and Lee’s building planning.”

“We made it clear in accepting the
gift that we would not be able to
determine immediately just how the
funds would be expended or how
soon,” he added. ““The Foundation,
through its vice president, Dr. Henry
Littlefield, expressed its willingness

 

DEVELOPMENT 17

 

of $250,000

to help the University at a time when
such a gift would have maximum
benefit in challenging others to sup-
port Washington and Lee.”

GIVING

As of Ma

The gift is the first W&L has re- aes Dee ee ee
welled ‘ otal Recelv 240,477 200,595
ceived from the Dana Foundation, EE ae $447 3,642
although the Foundation has made Increased Gifts go2
substantial gifts to other area colleges, Decreased Gifts 270 343
including Sweet Briar, Randolph- Gifts Same as
Macon Woman’s College, Hollins, peers 1,679 Lee

4 : Returnees 436 601
Davidson, and Randolph-Macon Col- New Gifts 160 212
lege. Gifts of $100 or More 453 562

Incorporated in 1950, the Dana = og Shey Last Year ‘ $67.86

bi ota ear 277,771
Foundation directs its support to Sosal Cointitnites 3.946

health and welfare organizations and
to private higher education. In its
college support, it makes grants for
student financial aid, distinguished
professorships, and physical facilities
in the form of challenge grants such
as that given to Washington and Lee.

Charles A. Dana, prominent in-
dustrialist and philanthropist, is presi-
dent of the foundation. Under his
guidance, the Foundation contributed
nearly $15 million to education,
health and welfare in a recent five-
year reporting period.

Contributors
Total of Gifts

Lee Massey McLau

 

Clayton E. Williams

Tommy Mac Baremore 61
Philip F. Howerton

REPORT

ALUMNI FUND

y 22, 1969
Last Year This Year

PARENTS’ FUND
As of May 26, 1969

Last Year This Year

298 423
$22,784 $38,113

MEMORIAL FUNDS
As of May 22, 1969

Gifts Amount

146 $5,992

ghlin 133 4,356
1,588

54 8,196

 

 

Class of 1929 Contributes $20,000

   

No. 109
we tt P69 BW
Pay 1 >THE 9
Me: Yi s2Z,cco™

ee wd EI —_

~—_ wan BALTIMORE

a yo B~O249 ee

422 DOLLARS

Chane of 1759

eR 8 ee eee

 

  

ye

  

  

ft

At its reunion banquet in May, the Academic Class of 1929 presentec
the University a check of $20,000. The size of the check was equal
Dean of the College, and Adrian L.

McCardell Jr. of Baltimore,

 

     
        
    

Ty"
7

 

ee od
1

to the amount. Holding it aloft for all to see are Dr. William W. Pusey il,
'29 Class Agent.

 

 

18°>CAMPUS

W&L Cirep as Historic
SITE IN JOURNALISM

Washington and Lee University was
honored May g as the location where
professional education for journalism
began 100 years ago, and Robert E.
Lee, the college’s president of that
era, was hailed as an _ educational
innovator.

Sigma Delta Chi, national profes-
sional journalism society, unveiled a
plaque in W&L’s Department of
Journalism and Communications de-
signating the University as an Historic
Site in Journalism. About 45 area
newspaper publishers and _ friends,
representatives of the Southern News-
paper Press Association and the Vir-
ginia Press Association attended the
ceremonies.

The plaque was dedicated by
Robert M. White II, publisher of the
Mexico, Mo. Ledger, a W&L alumnus
and past national president of Sigma
Delta Chi. President Huntley accept-
ed the plaque for the University.

At General Lee’s urging in 1869,
Washington College offered 50 “press
scholarships” to train young men for
journalism careers. However, the
project languished after his death in
1870 and was discontinued eight years
later. In 1921, the project was revived
when the present Lee Memorial
Journalism Foundation was establish-
ed at W&L. The foundation is em-
bodied in the University’s current
academic program as the Department
of Journalism and Communications.

“In substance,” Prof. O. W. Riegel
commented, “Lee’s educational inno-
vations were an effort to involve the
traditional and conservative academic
establishment in the social and_per-
sonal realities of his generation. In
his time it was called responding to
the social and economic and political
needs of the post-war South.”

Riegel, a member of the W&L
journalism faculty for 38 years and
former director of the Lee Memorial
Journalism Foundation, said that
“relevancy” is the current jargon for
General Lee’s journalism innovation.
Riegel spoke at a luncheon for guests.

The willingness of Lee to “innovate,
adjust and create,” is relevant to cur-
rent times, Riegel said, because the
“essential conflict of forces really has
not changed very much in the last

100 years. On the one hand are the
established interests, the content,
those who have found a comfortable
niche in the prevailing order of things.
On the other are the dispossessed, the
discontented, the revolted, and the un-
fulfilled.”

The
reads:

inscription on the plaque

“Here professional education for
journalism began. Initiated by Gen.
Robert E. Lee, then president of
Washington College, courses designed
to prepare rising newspapermen for
positions of leadership in a defeated
South were taught from 1869 to 1878,
the first formal instruction in journal-
ism in the history of education.”

Washington and Lee is one of three
historic sites in journalism commemo-
rated this year by Sigma Delta Chi.
The others are Mark Twain's boy-
hood home in Hannibal, Mo., and

 

HISTORIC SITE IM JOURNALISM

WASHINGTON AND
LEE UNIVERSITY

HERE PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION FoR
JOURNALISM BEGAN. INITIATED BY
Pa Me fe ed ee

IDENT OF WASHINGTON COLLEGE,

Atlanta,

Ga., honoring publisher
Henry W. Grady and his Atlanta
Constitution.

Since the program was begun in
1942, 33 sites have been designated.
The only other on a university campus
is at the University of Missouri,
marking the first school of journalism.

Two are in Virginia: at Gunston
Hall, commemorting George Mason’s
1776 Declaration of Rights, which in-
cluded freedom of the press; and at
Charlottesville, honoring Thomas Jef-
ferson as the author of the Declara-
tion of Independence.

White was credited by Prof. J.
Paxton Davis, director of the Lee
Memorial Journalism Foundation,
with initiating action which led to
the marking of W&L as an historic
site. White said Sigma Delta Chi’s
Historic Sites program was incomplete
until it included Washington and Lee.

 

fee.

 

Robert M. White II, ’38, (left) accepts the thanks of President
Robert E. R. Huntley after presentation of Sigma Delta Chi plaque.

WYOMING MAN NAMED
STUDENT Bopy PRESIDENT

Marvin Charles (Swede) Henberg,
a rising senior from Laramie, Wyo.,
was elected president of the Student
Body Executive Committee for 1969-
70. He will succeed Jay Passavant of
Beaver, Pa., who graduated in June.
Henberg was chairman of the Student
Curriculum Committee.

Other officers chosen in the spring
“big-four” elections were Joseph
‘Tompkins, a rising junior from Vin-
ton, Va., vice president; Charles W.
Dobbins, Jr., a rising senior from
Louisville, Ky., secretary; and J. Mar-
tin Bass, a rising senior from Little
Rock, Ark., president of Fancy Dress.

Charles C. Cahn, Jr., a rising senior
from Montgomery, Ala., and a mem-
ber of Zeta Beta Tau, was elected
president of the Interfraternity Coun-
cil.

Two ALUMNI HAVE ROLES
IN PuBLIC RELATIONS

Robert G.Holland, education writer
for the Richmond Times-Dispatch,
has been appointed director of public
relations at the University.

Holland, 27, is a 1963 cum laude
graduate of Washington and Lee. The
local chapter of Sigma Delta Chi, na-
tional professional journalism society,
elected him as the school’s outstanding
journalism student during his senior
year.

President Robert E. R. Huntley
announced that John Hughes, 35, a
member of the University’s public
relations staff since 1965, has been
named curator of Lee Chapel Mu-
seum, and sports information director.

A graduate of Richmond’s Douglas
S. Freeman High School, Holland was
the Lexington area correspondent for
the Times-Dispatch while a student
at Washington and Lee. After gradua-
tion, he became the newspaper's
bureau chief at Farmville, covering
10 Southside counties. While there
he became author of “The Story of
the Prince Edward Free Schools,” a
booklet copyrighted by the Prince
Edward Free School Association, the
organization which provided school-
ing for the county’s Negro children
in 1963-64.

Following military service, Holland

 

John Hughes, ’55

for

became education § writer the
Times-Dispatch in 1965, covering
news of schools and colleges and writ-
ing a weekly column on education.

Hughes, a native of Roanoke, is a
1955 journalism graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee. He joined the Uni-
versity staff in 1965 as assistant di-
rector of information services and
was named director of public relations
in August last year.

Hughes was with the Roanoke
Times for eight years as a sports and
general assignment reporter, includ-
ing service as bureau chief in Lex-
ington and Salem, and as an assistant
state editor. He left Roanoke in 1963
to become make-up editor for the
sports department of the Charlotte
Observer.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS
CHoosE New EpitTors

Editors and business managers of
the student newspaper, literary maga-
zine and yearbook at Washington and
Lee University have been named for
the 1969-70 academic session.

Editor of the Tuesday edition of
the Ring-tum Phi, the newspaper, will
be Robert Hudsco Yevich, a rising
senior from Richmond, Va. The edi-
tor of the Friday edition will be
Robert Lee Entzminger, a_ rising
senior from Belle, W.Va. Ring-tum
Phi business manager will be Gerald
William Weedon, a rising senior from
Jacksonville, Fla.

CAMPUS 19

 

Robert G. Holland, ’63

Co-editors of the Calyx, the year-
book, will be rising juniors Madison
Filmore Cole Jr. of Newman, Ga.,
and Thomas William Clyde of Tyler,
Texas. Reed Bolton Byrum, a rising
senior from Wheeling, W. Va., will
serve as Calyx business manager.

Robert Jamil Baroody, a_ rising
junior from Lakeville, Conn., was
selected editor of Ariel, the W&L stu-
dent literary magazine.

JOURNAL Pays ‘TRIBUTE

‘To ‘Howpy Hower

A paper describing the life and work
of James Lewis Howe, Washington
and Lee’s distinguished chemist, was
published in the December, 1968,
issue Of the Journal of Chemical Edu-
cation. Howe, for whom Howe Hall
is named, was an institution on the
campus for nearly 50 years. He died
in 1955 at the age of 96.

The paper by George B. Kauffman
of California State College at Fresno
cites Howe’s contributions in the field
of inorganic chemistry and also brings
out the human qualities of the man.

“Within a remarkably short time,
Howe became not only the one out-
standing American authority on and
bibliographer of the platinum metals
in general but also the undisputed
world authority on the chemistry of
ruthenium in particular,” the paper
says.

It tells also of Howe’s “unflagging
energy and enthusiasm,” his close

20:CAMPUS

rapport with students, his daily ritual
of having a bottle of beer before re-
tiring, and his booming voice which
stemmed from being slightly deaf in
later years.

‘Howdy’ Howe, as he was known
to most citizens of Lexington, always
had a smile and a low bow for every-
one,” the paper says. “He was sought
after for friendly advice by students
and townspeople alike.”

The article says Howe's magnum
opus and best known contribution to
chemistry was his monumental Bibli-
ography of the Metals of the Platinum
Group, which covers the literature
from 1748, when platinum was first
described, up to the end of 1950. And
it reports: “For more than _ four
decades, Washington and Lee alumni
recall having used Howe’s Inorganic
Chemistry as a freshman text. In the
words of one of his former students,
‘However much they may have for-
gotten what was in the book, they
will never forget the man who wrote
and taught it.’ ”’

PASSAVANT AND LEE WIN
CovETED GILLIAM AWARD

Because of his leadership in a
variety of changes in student life dur-
ing 1968-69, the student body presi-
dent of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity was a co-recipient this week of
two annual student service awards.

Jay Passavant, a senior chemistry
major from Beaver, Pa., was awarded
both the coveted Gilliam Award and
one of the special citations presented
by the student newspaper, the Ring-
tum Phi, for outstanding contribu-
tions to Washington and Lee.

The Gilliam Award also went to
Randy Hale Lee, a senior law stu-
dent from Baltimore, who was cited
for a wide range of services to W&L
during his undergraduate and law
studies here.

Established in 1963, the award is
named in honor of Dean Emeritus
Frank J. Gilliam of W&L and usually
is given to one student who has made
outstanding contributions to the Uni-

versity. The student government
Executive Committee makes the selec-
tions.

Lee and Passavant were each

awarded $50 cash stipends, plus $75
apiece to designate for benefit of a

 

Smiles on the faces of Randy Lee (left) and Jay Passavant (right) testify that
happiness is winning the Gilliam Award. With them is President Huntley.

W&L campus organization or aca-
demic department of their choosing.
Lee asked that his funds go to the
University Glee Club and Passavant
designated the Fellowship of Christian
Athletes.

Winners of the Ring-tum Phi
awards, in addition to Passavant were:

Dr. Lewis W. Adams, Dean of
W&L’s School of Commerce and Ad-
ministration, who retired from ad-
ministrative duties on July 1 after
20 years of leading the school.

Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw, professor of
history and head of the department,
whose history of Washington and Lee,
entitled General Lee’s College, has
been recently published by Random
House, Inc.

The Rev. J. Thompson Brown,
Episcopal chaplain for W&L and Vir-
ginia Military Institute and associate
rector of the R. E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church. Mr. Brown was
cited for his University and com-
munity action work. He is active in
the Rockbridge Area Community
Action Council, the Lexington-Rock-
bridge Human Relations Council,
and the University Federation of
Christian Concern.

Under Passavant’s leadership,
W&L’s student government was active
this year in promoting reforms which
were adopted, including elimination
of Saturday classes and a new curricu-
lum which gives students increased

opportunity for independent study.

Other “firsts” which the student
president played a role in initiating
were student representation at meet-
ings of the University Board of ‘Trus-
tees and the faculty executive com-
mittee. Student government-sponsored
“bitch-ins” were held for students to
air opinions. Formation of a Student
Civil Liberties Committee grew out
of one session. Also, changes were
made in the student Honor System to
safeguard rights of persons accused of
honor violations.

Lee has had a record of versatile
service to W&L. For example, he has
been a member of the board of gov-
ernors of the Law School, business
manager of the Law Review, manager
of the varsity baseball, soccer and
swimming teams, chairman of the
board of directors of the Concert
Guild, member of the Glee Club, a
member of the University Committee
on Intercollegiate Athletics, head
dormitory counselor for one year and
assistant head counselor for two years,
vice president of Fancy Dress Ball,
and an assistant in the library. Lee
has also been a member of the Stu-
dent Control Committee, which acts
on matters of student behavior.

The awards were presented Wednes-
day evening, May 16, at an Alumni
Association banquet honoring the uni-
versity’s 355 academic and law degree
candidates.

FOWLER SCANS ECONOMY
IN COMMERCE LECTURE

Henry H. Fowler, former U. S. Sec-
retary of the Treasury, delivered the
second annual Alumni Lecture on
Public Affairs of the School of Com-
merce and Administration. He was
then initiated into the University’s
chapter of Omicron Delta Epsilon,
national honor society in economics,
along with four students and two
members of the University admini-
stration.

Fowler, in his first public appraisal
of national economic policy since
leaving office last December, took issue
in his April 28 speech, with a number
of President Nixon’s major economic
policies while giving the new Ad-
ministration generally high marks for
its fight against inflation.

He chided the White House for

; ££ a
oa : : ad
i s $2 >
" “ee ; o
. > Ta
g

ey
Ne

Henry H. Fowler

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

abandoning the wage-price guideposts
of the Kennedy-Johnson era and for
proposing repeal of the 7 per cent
investment tax credit and reduction
of the 10 per cent income tax sur-
charge to 5 per cent on Jan. 1.

He said that contrary to popular
impression the nation’s rate of real
economic growth had slowed con-
siderably since the surcharge was im-
posed last summer and that, in fact,
the country “has moved midway be-
tween an excessive rate of real growth
and a recession.”

Fowler suggested a guideline for

management under which some por-
tion of increased costs would be
absorbed so that profit margins are
kept within the average of 1967-68.
A similar voluntary program for labor
would be keyed to acceptability of
wage settlements a little below 5 per
cent a year.

The University officials honored by
the fraternity were Farris P. Hotchkiss,
director of development, and Lewis
G. John, former director of financial
aid, who became dean of students on

July 1.
Students initiated into the fra-
ternity were seniors Michael W.

Pustay, Bergenfield, N. J.; Richard M.
Thomas, Bedford, Va.; and Terry G.
Seaks, Washington, D.C.; and junior
Steven Bb. Sandler, Norfolk, Va.

WkL DEBATERS CONTINUE
To PirkE Up TROPHIES

Washington and Lee’s debate squad
coached by Prof. William Chaffin had
an outstanding 1968-69 season, win-
ning a total of 23 awards and a trip
to the National Championship Debate
‘Tournament in DeKalb, III.

The debaters competed in 23 tour-
naments and sent the youngest team
in the country to the national meet.
Freshman John Reynolds and sopho-
more Tim Wright, both of Houston,
Tex., posted a 2-6 record in the na-
tional tournament, in which 44 of
the top debate teams in the country
competed.

Wright and Reynolds defeated
teams from the Universities of Oregon
and Washington, while losing to
UCLA, Wayne State, Kansas State of
Emporia, Northeast Oklahoma, Mid-
western and Southwest Missouri. Har-
vard upset Houston to win the na-
tional title.

In W&L’s last outing of the season
at New York University senior Jim
Hamill of Oklahoma City won a
trophy as the second best extempor-
aneous speaker. He and teammate
Kenny Murov of Shreveport, La. post-
ed a 3-2 record. It was Hamill’s last
appearance on a W&L debate team.
In his four years of participaion,
Hamill competed in 14 tournaments
and won 11 trophies, of which seven
were speaker awards.

Earlier, the two-man team of Murov
and Kevin Baker of Lynchburg, Va.

CAMPUS -21

finished third among 4o teams with
a 5-1 record at West Virginia Uni-
versity, John McCardell of Hagers-
town, Md. and Bill Radigan of Arl-
ington, Va. posted a 3-3 mark.

W&L novice debaters Roger Martin
of Jacksonville, Fla. and Cal Seaton
of Little Rock, Ark. finished in second
place with a 4-o mark at Randolph-
Macon College.

Two SENIORS AWARDED
FULL FULBRIGHT GRANTS

‘Two Washington and Lee Univer-
sity seniors have been awarded full
Fulbright grants for further study in
Germany. Michael J. Kline of Plant
City, Fla., will continue his studies
in German at the University of
Tubingen. Samuel D. Hinkle IV of
Shelbyville, Ky., hopes to attend the
University of Freiburg to further his
work in economics.

They received the grants under the
Fulbright exchange program — ad-
ministered by the Institute of Inter-
national Education. Since its begin-
ning in 1946, more than 50 Washing-
ton and Lee students have received
grants under the program, and the
University has had at least one recipi-
ent each year.

Kline is an honor roll and dean’s
list student and a member of the
Young Democrats and Liberty Hall
Society. Hinkle is valedictorian of
the 1969 graduating class and has a
perfect record of all ‘A’s since he en-
rolled as a freshman.

RieGEL RECEIVES HONORS
At SIPA CONVENTION

Approximately 1,200 high school
journalists and their faculty advisers
attended the goth annual Southern
Interscholastic Press Association on
the W&L campus during the spring
holidays in April. The two-day meet-
ing was sponsored by the University’s
Lee Memorial Journalism Founda-
tion.

The principal speakers were ‘Tom
Wicker, associate editor of the New
York Times, and William J. Woesten-
diek, editor of the This Week maga-
zine and former managing editor of
IBM’s Think magazine.

The schedule also included the
usual short courses, workshops, criti-

22°C/AMPUS

cism sessions, and panel discussions.
The delegates represented 175 second-
ary schools in 10 Southern states and
the District of Columbia, and 362
publications (newspapers, magazines
and yearbooks) were entered in the
competition for awards.

At the awards banquet, a special
citation was presented to Prof. O. W.
Riegel in recognition of his long
service to SIPA. Prof. Riegel retired
last year as head of the Department
of Journalism and Communications
and as director of the Lee Memorial
Journalism Foundation. His successor
in these posts, Prof. Paxton Davis,
made the presentation.

EANES SUCCEEDS LAUCK
IN PRINT SHOP POSITION

C. Harold Lauck, superintendent of
the University’s Journalism Labora-
tory Press for 37 years, retired July
1, President Robert E. R. Huntley
has announced.

W. Howard Eanes, formerly as-
sistant managing editor of the Roa-
noke Times, has been named to suc-
ceed Lauck.

Eanes will take over supervision of
a five-man staff which prints most of
the University’s many publications, in-
cluding the twice-weekly student news-
paper and the W&L alumni magazine.
The press operation, more commonly
known on campus as “the print shop,”
is a laboratory of the Department of
Journalism and Communications.
Eanes and his staff will instruct the
University’s journalism students in
printing methods, design, lay-out, and
typography.

“Harold Lauck’s years of service to
Washington and Lee have’ been
characterized by mastery of his pro-
fession and devotion to duty,” Presi-
dent Huntley said. “His creative tal-
ents have brought him and Washing-
ton and Lee national distinction. As
he retires, he has the satisfaction of
knowing that his high standards will
be a bench mark for the future.”

Lauck, 73, was appointed W&L
press superintendent and laboratory
instructor in journalism in July, 1932,
following a long career as a printer.
Beginning as a boy of 13 in 1909, he
worked in print shops in Winchester,
Salem, St. Louis, Lynchburg, and
Strasburg.

 

Howard H. Eanes

While in Salem, Lauck attended
Roanoke College and_ received his
A.B. degree there in 1918.

He has won numerous state and
national awards and honors, includ-
ing election as a fellow of the Royal
Society of Arts and Crafts of England.

In 1944 he received the Freidman
Medal for Distinguished Service to
Graphic Art Education.  Jnland
Printer, a leading trade publication,
featured him as one of the nation’s
best printers. In 1934 Lauck won
first prize in a typography contest in
Boston in which more than 2,500 per-
sons were eligible to participate.

In 1953 the American Institute of
Graphic Arts chose some of Lauck’s
work for its Commercial Printing of
the Year Exhibition which toured the
country. He received a certificate of
appreciation in 1964 from the Inter-
national Graphic Arts Education As-
sociation.

In 1962 the Virginia Congress of
Parents and Teachers voted him life
membership for his years of service,
including positions as its state trea-
surer and budget chairman.

Lauck is a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa leadership society and
Sigma Delta Chi, national honorary
jounalistic society. A native of Fred-
erick County, he attended both John
Kerr High School and Shenandoah
Valley Academy in Winchester.

(A story on Mr. Lauck’s career
appears on Page 25.)

Eanes is no stranger to Washington
and Lee or its students. Since Febru-
ary of last year he has served as a
visiting lecturer in journalism, teach-
ing a weekly course in newspaper
editing and design. He will continue
in this capacity.

A veteran newsman, Eanes has held
positions on the Progess-Index in his
native Petersburg, and on the Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch, Lynchburg
News, and Newport News Press. He
joined the Roanoke Times in 1965 as
makeup editor and within a year was
promoted to news editor and then
assistant managing editor.

Eanes has been active in state and
national news organizations, includ-
ing service as chairman of the Vir-
ginia Press Association’s news com-
mittee and participation as a panelist,
speaker and discussion leader in the
VPA’s news seminar programs.

He presently is serving on the news
promotion committee of the Associat-
ed Press Managing Editors Associa-
tion.

STUDENT-WRITTEN PLAYS
STAGED BY [TROUBADOURS

Two student-written plays were
presented May 7-10 by Washington
and Lee University’s Troubadour
‘Theater.

Our Lady, written by W&L. stu-
dents Jeb Brown and Ray Royce,
concerns the feelings and relationships
of two young persons—one male, one
female—in their search for something
of importance in life.

Julie’s Bridge, written by Albert
Bernstien of the University of Vir-
ginia, questions the reason for exist-
ence.

STUDENT ARTISTS DISPLAY
WorkK IN ANNUAL SHOW

Environmental sculpture and basic
drawings by art students were on dis-
play in April at duPont Art Gallery.

The display served as a prelude to
the annual W&L Student Art Show,
which ran in May, when the finished
works of student artists were on ex-
hibit and for sale.

More than 100 pieces were exhibited
during the May show, the last event
of the school year in duPont.

Four STUDENTS INITIATED
INto BETA GAMMA SIGMA

Beta Gamma Sigma, a national fra-
ternity that honors scholarship and
accomplishment among students of
business administration, initiated four
W&L students this spring. They were:

Senior Christopher H. Mills, Den-
ver, Colo.; Mark R. Eaker, Dallas,
Tex.; and Dan T. Dunn Jr., Colum-
bus, Ohio; and junior Steven F. Unti,
Oxon Hill, Md.

PSYCHOLOGY FRATERNITY
Honors Five STUDENTS

Five students at Washington and
Lee University have been initiated
into Psi Chi, the national honor so-
ciety in_ psychology.

The students are Carl Adams III
of Birmingham, Ala.; William David
Ferraraccio of Bluefield, Va.; Gregory
Lawrence Holmes of Toledo, Ohio;
Edward B. Suplee Jr. of Wilmington,
Del., and Lawrence F. Sutton Jr. of
Newton, N. J.

The purpose of Psi Chi is to ad-
vance the science of psychology and
to encourage, stimulate and maintain
scholarship of individual members in
all fields, particularly psychology.
Honored guest at the initiation ban-
quet was Dr. Harry F. Harlow, pro-
fessor of psychology and director of
the primate laboratory at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin. He spoke on
“The Nature of Love.”

Four STUDENT WRITERS
CoLLECT MAHAN AWARDS

Four students have been named
winners in the annual George A.
Mahan Awards competition in crea-
tive writing, sponsored by the W&L
Department of English.

Prose awards went to freshman
David Alan Ingold of Wilmington,
Del. and David Roger Munsick Jr.
of Summit, N. J., and to junior Justin
Gregory Adams of Bristol, Va. The
award for verse went to Marvin
Charles Henberg, a junior from Lar-
amie, Wyo.

The Mahan competition was estab-
lished by an alumnus, the late George
A. Mahan of Hannibal, Mo. The
award provides either a $100 scholar-

ship to be applied toward tuition, or
a $60 cash prize. Members of the Uni-
versity’s English department judge
entries.

Each of the 1969 winning entries
will be published in subsequent issues
of Ariel, the W&L student literary
magazine.

Scotr PAPER AWARD GOES
‘To LouIsIANA SOPHOMORE

FE. Staman Ogilvie, a sophomore
from Shreveport, La., has been named
to receive the Scott Paper Company
Foundation Award for Leadership.
The award provides grants of $1,500
for each of Ogilvie’s junior and senior
years at the University. He also will
be offered summer employment with
the company.

A dean’s list student, Ogilvie is a
member of the student government
executive committee and the varsity
football team. He is majoring in busi-
ness administration.

The Scott Paper Company Founda-
tion Award was established at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1965 and is made
each year to an outstanding sopho-
more who intends to pursue a career
in industry or commerce. Senior M.
Lee Halford Jr. of Richardson, Tex.
and junior Hugh B. Guill of Wash-
ington, D. C. currently are receiving

 

POPULAR PASTRY

 

These clever cookies, bearing the

We&L monogram, caused oh’s and ah’s
at the Bookstore’s open house marking
the first sale of Dr. Crenshaw’s history
of the University. “They’re too pretty
to eat,” was a frequent comment.

 

 

 

CAMPUS :23

grants under the program. An_ un-
restricted foundation grant of $1,000
also is made to the university. Similar
awards are made by the foundation at
26 other colleges and universities
across the country.

ACCOUNTING SENIOR WINS
VIRGINIA CPA Awarpb

William J. Kimmel III of ‘Vimon-
ium, Md., has been named by the
Virginia Society of Certified Public
Accountants as the outstanding senior
in accounting at Washington and Lee
University.

Kimmel received a certificate from
the Virginia society at a banquet in
May at the home of Dr. Jay D. Cook,
professor of accounting at WR&L.
Kimmel’s name will appear on a
plaque in Newcomb Hall. The award
by the Virginia Society is made an-
nually at W&L.

CANDIDATES FOR GOVERNOR
‘Top List oF SPEAKERS

Recent campus speakers have in-
cluded Virginia gubernatorial candi-
dates A. Linwood Holton (Rep.), Wil-
liam C. Battle (Dem.), and Rev. Bev-
erly McDowell (Conservative), poet
William Stafford; Columbia professor
of history Dr. Robert O. Paxton; Vir-
ginia attorney general candidate Rich-
ard Obenchain (Rep.); former Secre-
tary of the Treasury Henry H. Fowler;
Columbia history professor Dr. Peter
Gay; English mystery writer Julian
Symons; University of Wisconsin
psychology professor Charles Alan
Wright.

BOATWRIGHT IS NAMED
To MAGAZINE COUNCIL

James Boatwright III, professor of
English and editor of Shenandoah, the
literary magazine of Washington and
Lee University, has been appointed
to the board of directors of the Co-
ordinating Council of Literary Maga-
zines.

The council, which has its head-
quarters in New York City, was form-
ed in 1967 to help support non-
commercial literary magazines and,
through them, the independent
writer.

24) PBOPLE

Dean Adams’ Long Climb
Up From $3.75 a Week

His husky voice, the imposing crush
of papers on his desk and the fact
that he progressed from a $3.75 a
week boyhood job in his father’s
Appalachian company to the financial
whirl of Wall Street and the ivy climes
of academe would seem to fit Dr.
Lewis Whitaker Adams comfortably
into the mold of a seasoned, hard-
boiled commerce school dean.

The industrious, rugged-looking
but congenial and concerned native of
North Carolina’s mountains retired as
dean of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity’s School of Commerce and Ad-
ministration on July 1. He had served
as dean for 20 years, and originally
came to W&L 43 years ago.

But the cigarette holder he fingers
impatiently and the hectic rush of
committee meetings that forced Dr.
Adams to give up golf during his days
as dean are signs that fail to tell the
whole story of the businessman-educa-
tor. His interests reach beyond the
realm of figures and_= finance to
humanities and communication. The
strength of W&L’s approach to _pre-
paration for the business world, he
feels, is that it strives to educate the
“whole man.”

During his spare time, which usually
has been in the summers, Dean Adams
reads extensively. He likes to make a

C. Royce Hough III, ’59, of Winston-Salem, N. C., presents a citation of

appreciation to Dean Adams at the close of a special forum on
the School of Commerce and Administration held during Alumni Weekend.

 

project of reading everything a_par-
ticular American author has written.
One summer he read all of William
Faulkner. Another summer he read
Erskine Caldwell’s works.

“TL still enjoy doing this,” he said.
“That's why I have no worry about
retirement. Mark Twain is one writer
| haven't had time to read completely;
I'd like to read all of his works.”

Retirement from the dean's job,
however, won't mean the easy chair
will be the exclusive occupation of
Dean Adams. He will continue teach-
ing clementary economics, investments
and business finance.

As his reading interests might indi-
cate, the dean believes that majors in
his school need a broad liberal arts
background in order to function at
peak efficiency in their business or gov-
erment careers. W&L's School of Com-
merce and Administration eschews
the specialized majors, such as real es-
tate or insurance, that some schools of
business administration offer, in favor
of a general major in core subjects.

In 1956, on its 50th anniversary,
the School alter a two-year curriculum
study tripled its quantity of elective
courses for majors, giving students
increased freedom to select a broad
range of liberal arts courses, Dean
Adams recalled. Therefore, the com-
merce major gets not only such courses
as personnel management, marketing
and business law, but also a_ wide
range of free electives in the humani-

~~

ties, matural sciences and _— social
sciences.

Dean Adams admits to a bias for
English electives and whenever a stu-
dent has sought his advice on which
electives to take, “be sure to take

English” has been the reply. The

‘common complaint of employers na-

tionally is that young are
going into business who cannot write
or speak effectively, he said.

“They need to be exact in their
thinking and their writing,” Dr.
Adams declared.

“We hope we are going to give our
students a base for continuing educa-
tion,” Dean Adams commented.
“They are not going to be successful
10 tO 15 years from now
we teach them

persons

businessmen
on the basis of what
today.”

On his desk are many letters from
alumni, employed throughout the
world, who are appreciative of the
start they were given. “Your kind-
ness, patience and understanding,”
one wrote, “helped me reach my turn-
ing point.

While some universities take pride
in huge enrollments, W&L’s retiring
commerce dean believes his school’s
the relative smallness that
permits close student-faculty associa-
tion. “Contact between full professors
and students begins here even in the
freshman year,” he noted.

W&L’s School of Commerce and
Administration, which has some 270
majors, is the smallest of the schools
which have been admitted to the
highly-selective American — Associa-
tion of Collegiate Schools of Business.

forte is

Adams’ tenure as dean has been the
second longest in the school’s history.

He succeeded the late Glover D.
Hancock, who had served 29 years.

H. Parker Willis, who played an im-
portant role in drafting the Federal
Reserve Act, was the first dean.
Coincidentally, Dr. Adams recalled,
all of the full-time deans in the Com-
merce School's history have come from
the money and banking field of speci-
alization. That includes Dean Adams’
successor, Dr. Edward C. Atwood Jr.,
who is currently Dean of Students
and is a former consultant economist
for General Electric Company.
Adams was born and_ raised in
Andrews, N. C., located in the moun-
tainous western region of the state.

As a high school student, he was in-
troduced to the world of work in his
father’s tannic acid company. There,
he earned $3.75 a week cleaning offices
and keeping count of railroad cars
as they came in to be loaded. He be-
came interested in the commerce field
while attending the University of
North Carolina, from which he was
graduated in 1925. He joined W&L
in 1926 as an economics instructor,
a position he held for three years.

After stints as an instructor at Cor-
nell University, he joined the Wall
Street firm of Holsapple & Co., a mem-
ber of the New York Stock Exchange,
in 1933 as a security analyst. He
moved up to manager of the com-
pany’s statistical department in 1937.

At the urging of the late Dr. Francis
P. Gaines, W&L president, he rejoined
W&L in 1940 as an assistant profes-
sor of economics. Dr. Adams was pro-
moted to associate professor in Febru-
ary, 1949 and became full professor
and dean of the school the following
September. That year, 1949, was a
big one for him because he also re-
ceived his Ph.D. at Cornell.

—RosBERT G. HOLLAND

Harold Lauck’s Passion:

Excellence in Printing

Harold Lauck went to college be-
cause he “wanted to be more than
just a printer.’’ On July 1st, he retired
after 60 years in the printing trade.
The last 37 of those years were spent
as superintendent of Washington and
Lee University’s Journalism Labora-
tory press.

Harold Lauck has been more than
‘just a printer.” The list of his awards
and achievements in his profession fills
a printed page.

“My father died when I was 12, and
[I had to work after school to help
my mother and my three brothers and
sisters,” Lauck recalled. A_ school
chum told him of a print shop and
stationery store which needed some-
one for several hours each day after
school. He got the job—at $1 a week.

That was how he learned the print-
ing trade in his native Winchester,
Va., in 1909. After high school, he
enrolled at Roanoke College “to de-
velop something else’ in the way of
an occupation. But Lauck worked in

 

 

C. Harold Lauck

a print shop to help put himself
through college, and his first job
offer after graduation was in printing.
He never left it.

After working in print shops in
St. Louis, at J. P. Bell Co. in Lynch-
burg and a shop in Strasburg, Va.,
Lauck learned that the position at
Washington and Lee was open.

‘There were over 30 applicants. I
got the job because I was the only
one with a college degree.”

It wasn’t long before Lauck made
a name for himself. The awards came
quickly and steadily: a medal for dis-
tinguished service to graphic arts edu-
cation, first prize among 2,500 en-

 

= 96 -=

This part of the Revelation
of St. John the Divine has
been put into type and printed
bu Harold Lauck and bound
by dda Baskerville Lauck as
a Keepsake for their friends,
Christmas, nineteen hundred
and sixty-eight.

This is Ao. 28 in the series

 

 

 

This is the closing page from Harold Lauck’s
1968 Christmas greeting booklet, a labor of
love he intends to continue.

PEOPLE:2S

trants in a typography contest, clec-
tion to the Royal Society of Arts and
Crafts of England.

Inland Printer, a leading trade
publication, featured him as one of
the nation’s best printers. He was
elected president of the International
Graphic Arts Education Association,
of which he was a charter member.

He constantly strove for excellence.
“IT felt our work always had to be
the best because of the great men
associated with this University,” he
said.

“The print shop was not real
popular when I came here in 1932,”
Lauck recalled. “I sold the faculty
and department heads on using our
services by showing them we could
do top-quality work. Now everybody
on campus uses it.”

The press is also a laboratory for
journalism students. In this con-
nection Lauck taught a once-a-week
course for 35 years in printing and
typography. Many alumni pay him a
visit when they return to the campus
for reunions.

In printing circles, Lauck is a
recognized expert in Baskerville type
(his wife is the former Ida_ Basker-
ville, and the type’s designer is one
of her ancestors). But he is perhaps
just as well-known for his annual
Christmas booklet, which he hand-sets
in Goudy text type (similar to Olde
English). Lauck considers Goudy “the
greatest type designer of all time.”

Lauck began printing his own
Christmas greetings in 1941, using a
verse excerpt from the Bible, and has
continued the practice ever since. He
uses his own personal font of the
Goudy type. His wife then stitches
and binds the small book by hand.

Together they print and distribute
6oo of the Christmas greetings to
their friends. The University of Vir-
ginia has a full set of the 28 cards
in its rare book room, and Lauck plans
to place another complete set in the
W&L library. Early copies of the work
are rare.

Lauck says he has been too busy
working to think about his plans after
retirement. Right now he’s wonder-
ing what to do with two closets full
of mementoes and keepsakes he has
at the office, the accumulation of 60
years in the printing business.

—JOHN HuGHEs

QO. ATRILETICS

Generals Win Second Straight CAC Championship

Washington and Lee completed its
spring athletic competition with win-
ning seasons in three sports, a state
track champion, and_ its second
straight conference championship.

The Generals successfully defend-
ed their overall title in the College
Athletic Conference during the
league’s Spring Sports Festival May
g-10 in Danville, Ky. Coach Verne
Canfield’s tennis team won its third
straight conference crown, while the
Generals finished second in track, and
third in both baseball and golf.

The baseballers, under Coach Joe
Lyles, posted an 11-9 record, the most
wins for a W&L baseball team since
1952, when the Generals were also 11-
g. W&L placed outfielder Scotty Mc-
Chrystal and_ pitcher-infielder Gil
Fitzhugh on the All-Conference team.

Fitzhugh led the Generals in three
categories, hitting .348 while compil-
ing a 5-4 pitching record and a 1.67
earned run average. McChrystal hit
four home runs and accumulated 22
RBIs.

Coach Canfield’s tennis squad fin-
ished 8-5 for the year and dominated
the CAC tourney. Tommy Rueger,
Bill Gatlin and Rick Armstrong all
won singles titles. Rueger and Gatlin
teamed to win in doubles, along with
Don McClure-Tom McJunkin.

WXL track star Mike Neer garnered
a raft of trophies and points in the
CAC meet. He won the high jump at
6-6, placed second in the long jump
and fifth in the triple jump. He also
finished third in the javelin, an event
he had entered only once before.

Neer, the state champion high
jumper, competed by invitation May
16-17 in the Martin Luther King In-
ternational Freedom Games at Vil-
lanova. He was also to compete in the
NCAA mid-Atlantic regional meet
May 23 at Dickinson College and the
NCAA Eastern regional in June at
Ashland, Ohio.

W&L swept the CAC javelin event,
with sophomore Mike Carrere win-
ning at 170 feet, 7 inches, senior
Charlie Freret placing second and
Neer third. The Generals also had
conference champions in sophomore
Doug Deaton, who threw the discus
139 feet, six inches, and senior Sam

Hinkle, who won the 440 at :54.3 on
a muddy track and placed third in
the 220.

Coach Cy ‘Twombly’s golf team
posted a 6-3 record for the year, plac-
ing fifth overall in the state tourna-
ment and first among Virginia small
colleges. The Generals’ Dick Singlet-
ary was fourth in CAC medalist
competition with rounds of 74-79—
53°

W&L’s young lacrosse squad suf-
fered through a 1-8 campaign, but
things are looking up for Coach Dick
Szlasa’s crew. The Generals lose only
six seniors and have approximately
20 freshmen with lacrosse experience
lined up for next season.

14 WSL Players Named
Outstanding Athletes

Fourteen Washington and Lee Uni-
versity students have been named
“Outstanding College Athletes of
America.”” They will be listed in the
1969 edition of the publication, spon-
sored by the non-profit Outstanding
Americans Foundation.

The W&L hist includes two AIl-
America swimmers—senior Willis M.
(Billy) Bal’:and sophomore William
Brumback—the national junior AAU
high jump champion, Mike Neer, and

 

a number of team captains and school
record-holders.

Three linebackers from the Gen-
erals’ football squad are included:
senior Dean Kumpuris, a tri-captain
for next season; his brother Drew, a
junior; and John Wolf, a graduating
senior and a co-captain of the 1968
squad,

The others honored are Mel Cart-
wright in basketball; Harry Zeliff,
cross-country; Scott Fechnay, soccer;
Lloyd R. (Bucky) Cunningham, foot-
ball; James S. Wilson, baseball; Gary
Silverfield, golf; Tommy Mitchell,
soccer and baseball; and Tommy
Rueger, tennis captain who led the
Generals to three straight conference
championships.

Several of the athletes were cited
for their accomplishments in more
than one sport. Neer is not only a
champion high jumper but a_ key
man for the W&L basketball team. In
his two years on the squad the Gen-
erals have won 37 of 48 games.

Mitchell is an outstanding goalie in
soccer and a top pitcher and _ hitter
in baseball. Brumback is an excellent
lacrosse player in addition to being
an All-America in swimming. Bill
also is a track dash and relay man.

Outstanding College Athletes of
America recognizes and honors the
all-round abilities of young people
who have distinguished themselves in
college sports competition, campus
activities and curriculum.

Gil Fitzhugh, who led the Generals in hitting, pitching and earned run average,
shows his pitching form.

‘Old Guard’ Gathering
Marks Alumni Weekend

Approximately 250 guests, includ-
ing alumni and their families, were
on hand May g-10 for the University’s
annual alumni weekend.

‘The weekend marked a new re-
union approach—“The First Annual
Old Guard Convocation’—in which
alumni who graduated more than 50
years age were invited as_ special
guests. In addition, specific reunions
of the classes of 1919, 1929, 1944, 1954
and 1959 were held.

One reunion feature was a reception
and autographing party at the W&L
Bookstore on the occasion of the first
sale of Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw’s new
book on the 220-year history of Wash-
ington and Lee. The result of 20
years of research, the book is entitled
General Lee’s College and was pub-
lished by Random House, Inc.

Dr. Crenshaw, a W&L professor of
history, also spoke to alumni in du-
Pont Hall on background concerning
the preparation of the book.

Highlights Saturday included a
meeting of the Alumni Association
in Lee Chapel, an address by Presi-
dent Robert E. R. Huntley at a
luncheon in Evans Dining Hall, and
class banquets at several locations in
Lexington.

Law school and other alumni at-
tended the annual John Randolph
Tucker Lecture of the W&L School
of Law. The lecture in Lee Chapel
was delivered by Charles Alan Wright,
McCormick Professor of Law at the
University of Texas.

Another event in the Law School
was the Burks Moot Court competi-
tion among W&L law students. Stu-
dents argued cases before a panel of
judges from the U. S. Fourth Cir-
cuit Court of Appeals.

Bartenstein Re-elected
Alumni President

Three men were elected to four-year
terms on the Board of Directors of
Washington and Lee _ University
Alumni, Inc. during a meeting of the
Alumni Association on May 10.

They were: A Christian Compton,
‘50, Judge of the Law and Equity

ALUMNI:27

 

a

Standing on the front campus lawn after the Alumni Association meeting are John M.
Jones III (left), vice president, and Fred Bartenstein Jr., president.

Court of the City of Richmond, Va.;
Upton Beall, '51, president of Robin-
wood Building and Development Co.
in Tyler, Texas; and Beauregard A.
Redmond, ‘55, vice president of
the Bank of New Orleans in New
Orleans.

Re-elected as president of the
alumni organization was Fred Barten-
stein Jr. of Mendham, N. J., vice presi-
dent of Merck and Co., Inc. Barten-
stein was graduated from W&L in
1941.

Other officers elected were: vice
president, John M. Jones III, ’g7,
president and editor of the Greenville,
Tenn., Daily Sun; and_ treasurer,
Charles F. Clarke Jr., ’38, a member
of a Cleveland, Ohio law firm. Wil-
liam C. Washburn, ’40, of Lexington,
was re-elected secretary.

Richard W. Smith, ’41, member of
a Staunton, Va., law firm, was elected
as one of the two alumni representa-
tives on the University Committee on
Intercollegiate Athletics.

 

 

CHAPTER VISITS

University President Huntley,
Alumni Secretary Washburn and
other members of the University
family have attended several
Alumni Chapter meetings in re-
cent months.

President Huntley, since tak-
ing office in February, 1968, has
been visiting as many chapter
meetings as possible across the
country. He hopes eventually to
visit every chapter and to begin
a round of revisits.

Recent meetings have been
held in Louisville, Cincinnati,
Philadelphia, Jacksonville,
Tampa, Kingsport, Charlotte,
Greenville, Winston-Salem, New
York, and Columbia.

Fuller reports on these and
other meetings will appear in
the August issue of the Alumnus.

 

 

49;CLASS NOTES

CLASS NOTES

 

 

‘THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR

With Crest in Ftve Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ‘41.

Price: $37.00 f.0.b.
Gardner, Massachusetts
(Effective June 1, 1969)

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
NOTICE: Delivery of orders in-
tended for Christmas cannot be
guaranteed if received after No-

vember 1.

 

 

 

1923

Brig. Gen. A. H. Harris Jr. is retired and
lives in Wilmington, N.C. He remains active
as director of civil defense for Hanover
County, the city of Wilmington, and the

local area.
1925

A maze of activities keeps M. R. BRUIN Jr.
very active. He spends his winters in Clear-
water, Fla. and his summers on his farm
on Claytor Lake near Draper, Va. Bruin is
president of the Pulaski County Farm
Bureau, an officer and budget committee
chairman for the Presbyterian Church, and
an active member of the Snowville Masonic
Lodge. He is chairman of the Pulaski
County Government Consolidation Study.

Gipson B. WITHERSPOON, an attorney in
Meridian, Miss., has been elected from the
sixth district to the Board of Governors of
the American Bar Association.

1926

Georce L. Reap is a retired captain in the
Navy. He and his family live in Scottsdale,

Ariz.
1929

WiLtiAM F. CHANDLER is president of the
industrial coatings division, Porter Paint
Co., Inc., with general offices in Louisville,
Ky.

Dr. WILLIAM Woop Gtass and his wife have
been honored at the First Presbyterian
Church in South Boston, Va. The occasion
was to recognize their 10 years of service
to the church and the community. Dr.
Glass has served in Halifax, Va., Summer-
field, Ga., Decatur, Ala., Louisville, Ky., and
Emporia, Va. While serving in Decatur, Dr.
Glass was elected moderator of the Synod

of Alabama.
1932

Selection of HAROLD J. SULLIVAN as executive
director of the Oklahoma Bar Association

was made in December, 1968. Until he as-
sumes his new post, he will continue as
assistant municipal counselor for Oklahoma
City.

For the past two years ALLAN S. DeLAnpD has
been security officer with the U. S. Informa-
tion Agency in Washington, D.C. Prior to
this assignment, he had recorded 25 years
of service with the Atomic Energy Com-
mission, security division, and most of his
service was in Pittsburgh, Pa.

Judge H. W. Mackenzir, Jr. will soon begin
his 1gth year as judge of the 38th Judical
Circuit of Virginia.

The vice president and curator of the
Sandy Bay Historical Society, DR. WILLIAM
D. Hoyt, continues his interest in library
and historical work. He is in his third term
as president of the Essex County Historical
Society and second year as president of the
local Friends of the Library in Rockport,

Mass.
1934

The end West Virginia citizens’ conference
met in Charleston on Nov. 11, 1968, and
among the participants was State Supreme
Court President THorRNTON G. Berry JR.
The conference, called by Gov. Hulett C.
Smith, was to study the West Virginia court
system and its needs. The meeting was co-
sponsored by the American Judicature So-
ciety.

KENNETH E. DaAvis is district manager for
Simonds Saw & Steel Division of Wallace
Murray Corp. in Florida, and makes his
home in Winter Park.

Grorcre D. McCuure is making an outstand-
ing record with Aetna Life & Casualty Co.
McClure is president of the George D.
McClure Insurance Agency in Dallas. He
has represented Aetna for some 33 years,
and is one of its leading men in the South-
west.

The Travelers Insurance Companies of Hart-

 

Robert B. Safford, "34

Howard Greenblatt, ’44

4

ford, Conn., has appointed Roserr B. SAr-
FORD secretary in the life, health and financial
services department. He joined the com-
pany in 1934 and has been in the life, health
and financial services department since 1949.
He was named superintendent of training
in 1956, and director of training in 1959.
He is an educational trustee for Chartered
Life Underwriters, a corporator of Hartford
Hospital and Mt. Sinai Hospital, and a
director of the Family Services Society, all
of Hartford, Conn.

1937

After 42 years in Greensboro, N.C., LARRY
W. WILson JR. is now in Charlotte where
he is area manager for Blue Gem Manu-
facturing Co., with headquarters at the
Charlotte Merchandise Mart.

1939

Dr. ALEXANDER BLAIN III, chief surgeon at
the Alexander Blain Memorial Hospital in
Detroit, has written Prismatic Papers & an
Ode. The book is a series of essays, poems,
and tales of visits to faraway lands and
exotic people, and reminiscences of great
men of medicine.

CHARLES L. GUTHRIE JR. is teaching English
in the Department of Defense schools. Cur-
rently, he is assigned to the Air Force school
at Torrigon Air Base near Madrid, Spain.

DANIEL A. FALLAT is executive assistant to
the Apollo program manager at the John
F. Kennedy Space Center. Fallat is re-
sponsible for the administraion of man-
agerial problems, and assists in coordina-
tion of programs and projects during check-
out of Appolo/Saturn space vehicles.

1940

MARRIED: JAcKsON GRoveR AKIN and

Margaret Jayne McCormick were married on
March 12, 1969. The Akins will
home in Albuquerque, N. M.

make their

 

Harry L. Harner, ’45

Robert H. Gray, ’46

194]

CHARLES L. Hopson served in 1968 as presi-
dent of the Franklin County (Ky.) Bar As-
sociation. In the spring of 1969, he joined the

Louisville Power Squadron and helped to.

organize the Frankfort Division, in which
he was administrative lieutenant.
The Dillingham Corp. has appointed

HOwARD GREENBLATT as project director in
its new Chicago office. Greenblatt was a
former real estate director and general coun-
sel for Hart, Schaffner & Marx. Greenblatt,
a native of Chicago, received his B.S. degree
in marketing from Northwestern University
in 1943 after attending Washington and Lee
from 1940-1942. After serving in the U.S.
Navy he returned to the school and gradu-
ated from Northwestern University’s School
of Law in 1949. He is a member of the
Illinois Bar and the Chicago Bar Association.

1945

Carpenter Technology Corp. of Reading,
Pa. has appointed Harry L. HARNER vice
president of the tube division. Formerly

general sales manager—tube division—Harner
has been associated with the firm. since
1956. He is vice president of Welded Steel
Tube Institute and a member of the Union
County Chamber of Commerce.

1946

Robert H. Gray has been named director
of marketing for Kalmbach Publishing Co.
of Milwaukee, Wis. He was an advertising
agency executive in Norfolk and Lynchburg
from 1958 to 1965, at which time he moved
to Milwaukee. Gray’s wide association with
the communications industry includes ma-
jor publishing houses, advertising agencies,
manufacturing and service organizations.

Reynolds Metals Co. has promoted JoserH
N. Morratt to editor of publications. In his

 

Richard H. Turrell, ’49

GLASS NOTES:29

new capacity, he edits the Reynolds Review
and the Reynolds Aluminum Progress, as
well as several special publications. Moffatt,
news director for WSLS-TV in Roanoke for
12 years, joined Reynolds in 1965 as public
relations manager—consumer and packaging

markets.
1948

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. T. HALLER JACKSON

JR., a son, Thomas Grey, on March 26, 1969.

The family lives in Shreveport, La.

1949

RICHARD H. TURRELL, senior vice president
of Fiduciary Trust Co., New York, and a
member of the Alumni Board of Directors,
has been elected to The Lehigh Portland
Cement Co.’s Board of Directors. Turrell
joined Fiduciary Trust in 1961 and
named assistant vice president in 1963. In
1965, he became vice president and in 1968
assumed his current position. He was pre-
viously associated with Auchincloss, Parker
& Redpath and Blue Coal Corp.

was

In January, 1969, THOMAS WARNER TUCKER
was elected president of the Bank of War-
wood in Wheeling, W. Va.

FRANK CARTER JR., newly-elected president of
the Atlanta (Ga.) Chamber of Commerce,
was keynote speaker at the Empire Real
Estate Board’s annual awards dinner in
February. Carter, president of Pope & Carter,
Inc., is a member of the Million Dollar
Club of the Atlanta Real Estate Board. In
1965, he served as chairman of Atlanta’s
Chamber of Commerce expressway commit-
tee and is currently a member of the
executive group of the Industrial Council
of the Urban Land Institute.

1950

WILLIAM J. LEDBETTER has joined the Magna-
vox Co. as vice president and general counsel
and has also been appointed secretary of
the company. Ledbetter had been with

 

William J. Ledbetter, ’50

JO:CLASS NOES

Honeywell, Inc. since 1964. Previously, he
was associated with General Electric Co.
and had been in private law practice.

195]

ALBERT F. KNIGHT has joined the legal staff
of Calgon Corp. as senior attorney. He has
been serving as senior attorney for Merck
& Co., Calgon’s parent company. He joined
Merck in 1959.

RICHARD E. WHITSON JR. is working for the
Oil Dri Corp. in Chicago as insecticide clay

sales manager.
1952

RICHARD BELL BAKER is an
Myer-Beatty Co., insurance

Chicago.
1953

Hayes C. McCCLERKIN JR., an attorney in
Texarkana, Ark., is Speaker of The House
of Representatives in Arkansas.

officer with
brokers’ in

JosepH W. SCHER, a creative supervisor with
Batten, Barton, Durstin, & Osborn in New
York City, has completed a half-hour film
for the Greek government entitled, ‘“What’s
Happening in Greece?” He is currently
writing a one-hour TV documentary, “Three
Faces of Communism,” for Warner Brothers-
Seven Arts.

DONALD H. PETERSON has been appointed
director of public relations of the Chicago
office of Geyer-Oswald, Inc.

1954

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. EvANs DUNN Jr., a
son, Evans Johnson, on Nov. 19, 1968 in
Birmingham, Ala.

The appointment of NorMAN L. DoByNs to
the new post of director of government
relations has been announced by American
Can Co. He will be headquartered in Wash-
ington, D.C., and will be responsible for
the firm’s relations with executive and legisla-
tive branches at all government levels—
federal, state, and local. Prior to joining
American Can in 1964, Dobyns was ad-
ministrative assistant to Representative
Thomas N. Downing of Virginia.

1955

The Butler (Penn.) Jaycees named HAL A.
HAMILTON as Junior Man of the Year and
presented him with its Distinguished Service
Award. He is supervisor of employment for
the Butler works of Armco Steel Corp.

Dave CLINGER, in the public relations de-
partment of Reynolds Metals, enjoys a most
unusual avocation—he designs and_ prints
invitations, Christmas cards, letter heads,
and handbills. Clinger has collected a variety
of typefaces from various periods (including
the 18th century, the 18g0’s), and he does
his work on three presses. “We have vintage
equipment geared to small runs and a lot
of hard work. But we have an avocation
that pays its way, and we have fun in
the process,” Clinger reports.

 

Dr. M. P. MEApDorS Jr. is a Fellow in the
Department of Pathology at the Baptist
Memorial Hospital in Memphis, Tenn.

1956

EMMETT R. KELLEY has been elected to the
Board of Directors of the Retail Merchants
Association of Richmond.

THe Rev. AuGcustus Moopy Burr III be-
came associate rector of St. George’s Church
in Arlington, Va. in March. He was pre-
viously rector of churches in Asheboro,
Mayodan, Germantown, and Raleigh, N.C.

1957

Having completed urology residency at
Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston in
December, 1968, Dr. RICHARD B. RAINEs is
now in private practice in Memphis, Tenn.
He is also teaching part-time at the Uni-
versity of Tennessee School of Medicine.

1958

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp L. HARLow,
a son, Lyle Hamrick, born March 9g, 1969.

Halifax (Va.) lawyer CHARLEs L. McCorMIck
III has been named commonwealth attorney
for Halifax County and South Boston. Active
in Democratic party affairs, McCormick is
a member of the Democratic state central
committee and is secretary of the Fifth
District Democratic Committee. He cur-
rently is substitute judge for the juvenile
and domestic relations court and is a former
town councilman.

After practicing law in Ft. Lauderdale for
10 years, NORMAN ROETTGER has recently ac-
cepted the post of deputy general counsel
in the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, Washington, D.C.

Home Life Insurance Co. of New York has
named VERNON W. HOLLEMAN Jr. to its
President's Council, the firm’s highest honor.
Holleman is secretary-treasurer of the Dis-

 

Albert F. Knight, ’51

-

trict of Columbia Life Underwriters As-
sociation, and he has served as chairman of
the Mid-Atlantic Sales Congress. He is cur-

rently serving as president of the Life
Insurance Club of Washington.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THeopore R. Mc-
KELDIN JR., a son, Theodore R. III, born

on Sept. 2, 1968. The McKeldins live in
Baltimore, Md.

The investment research and counsel firm—
T. Rowe Price & Associates, Inc. of Balti-
more, Md.—has announced the election of
THomMAs H. Broapus Jr. as assistant vice
president. His primary responsibility is in-
vestment counseling for private portfolios.

Rosert G. JAcos has been promoted to
marketing manager of IBM’s Atlanta com-
mercial brands office.

1960

JouHN R. PLEASANT Jr. has been granted a
sabbatical leave from Southeastern Louisiana
College for work this summer leading to
a Ph.D. in English.

The department of ministry of the United
Methodist Board of Education has awarded
the Rev. WaLpo E. KNICKERBOCKER JR. a
Dempster Graduate Fellowship. The award
is named for John Dempster, a igth century
preacher who helped found three seminaries.
Knickerbocker is currently working toward
his Ph.D. in church history at Emory Uni-
versity.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMes E. REID, a son,

James E. Jr., on Jan. 25, 1969. They live near
Santa Rosa, Cal.

196]

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WICKLIFFE HOLLINGs-
HEAD, a son, William Keith, on January 3,
1969, in Cherry Hill, N. J.

The Chemical Bank of New York has an-
nounced the promotion of JOHN H. HaArp-

  

,

Norman L. Dobyns, ’54

 

WIcK JR. to assistant trust officer in the
personal trust department. Hardwick has
been with the bank for one year.

After eight years service with the FBI,
WARREN WELSH has recently accepted a posi-
tion with the National Broadcasting Com-
pany in New York City.

RICHARD H. PARSONS is a partner in the law
firm of Mathis, Slavens, Parsons & Hatcher
in Peoria, Ill. He is also legislative counsel
for the Illinois County Treasurers Associa-
tion and president and chairman of the
board of Bankers Title Company, Ltd.

1962

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. DonALD H. McCuure,
a daughter, Elizabethine Hutson, on March
8, 1969. The family lives in Coral Gables, Fla.

MARTIN E, HULBERT, an engineering physicist,
has been named special sales engineer for
electronic information retrieval system by
Tele-Norm Corp. Hulbert formerly worked
on printed circuitry development for Gen-
eral Electric Co. in Lynchburg, Va. He re-
cently completed four years of professional
work and study in Europe.

1963

After attending Vanderbilt Law School,
RICHARD G. HOLLADAY JR. was married to
Martha Seaman in August, 1965. He is now
secretary-treasurer of the Home Federal Sav-
ings and Loan Association in Memphis.

CHARLES H. STEVENSON is now director of
corporate finance and development for the
Kentucky Co. in Louisville.

Maurice W. WorrH Jr. has been promoted
by Delta Air Lines to assistant station man-
ager at O’Hare Airport in Chicago. He join-
ed Delta in 1960 as a ramp service agent
in Dallas, and since 1965 has been assistant
superintendent of the field ticket office in
Atlanta,

THOMAS P. McDAvip is assistant area super-

Martin E. Hulbert, ’62

visor and assistant secretary and treasurer of
Union Trust Co. of Maryland.

Since receiving his MBA from the Wharton
School of Finance in December, 1967, DAvip
ROBERT GROGAN has worked for Harris-
Intertype Corp. in Cleveland.

1964

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Harvey E. Jones JR.,
a daughter, Amanda Mason, on March 20,
1969. Jones is with Price Waterhouse & Co.
in Washington, D.C.

MARRIED: DoNALD PALMER and_ Joan
Andrews of Seattle, Wash. were married Dec.
28, 1968. Don will finish his internship at
Charity Hospital in New Orleans in June
and expects to go into the service thereafter.

1965

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Davin A. Geer III,
a second daughter, Courtenay Pollock, on
Feb. 19, 1969 in Spartanburg, S.C.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. S. M. McAsHAN III,
a daughter, Susan Clayton, on Nov. 25, 1968
in Charlotte, N.C.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. MARSHALL
JR., a son, James Wyman Pattee Marshall,
on Sept. 23, 1968. Marshall has recently been
made a partner in the insurance firm of
Adams & Porter Associates of Houston.

WILLIAM G. Broappus is clerking for Justice
Harry L. Carrico of the Virginia Supreme
Court of Appeals. His clerkship extends
through June, 1970.

After graduating from Vanderbilt's Graduate
School of English, HArotp L. HOLLapay
studied at Oxford and expects to receive his
Ph.D. this winter. He is currently a_profes-
sor at the University of Vermont.

At the age of 28, Judge Rocer D. KeEtsry
is the youngest man ever appointed to the
bench in Delaware. He is judge of the
family court of Kent and Sussex counties.

1966

MARRIED: WALTER W. STELLE and Virginia
Phelps Vroome were married on Aug. 17,
1968. Stelle is a graduate student and _ part-
time instructor in the Department of Psy-
chology at the University of Pittsburgh. He
is studying for his Ph.D. in clinical
psychology.

WILLIAM S. BAKER, a credit analyst at the
North Carolina National Bank in Charlotte,
has won first place in the annual competi-
tion on case problems and_ special loan
situations sponsored by the Carolina-Virginia
Chapter of Robert Morris Associates. His
paper, “Analyzing Private Educational Insti-
tutions from a Credit Standpoint,” was
selected from 22 entries.

Harry E. Brooksy has been employed by
Mobil Oil Libya, Ltd. as an _ exploration
geologist. He and his wife moved to
Tripoli, Libya, Africa in April, 1969.

WesLey W. Horner is a first lieutenant in

GLASS NOTES:31

the U.S. Army of the Presidio of San Fran-
cisco. He recently returned from a courier
trip to Saigon, Cam Rahn Bay, and Pleiku
in Vietnam. He expects to be discharged in
July and begin study toward a master’s
degree in landscape architecture at the Uni-

versity of Illinois.

1967
A lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force, CHARLES
H. ROADMAN II is in the Biomedical Service
Corps. He was recently selected to attend
medical school at Emory University under
USAF sponsorship.

BRADFORD ROCHESTER has been promoted to
city hall reporter for the Winston-Salem
Journal.

After attending the ordnance officer basic
course, WILLIAM M. FLATAU is now the
technical supply officer in the end infantry
division in Korea.

Entering the Navy in November, 1967, J.
Mac HOLLADAY received his commission in
March, 1968 and his wings in March, 1969.
He is currently a helicopter pilot assigned
to search and rescue squadron at NAS
Agana, Guam, and holds the rank of Lt. (jg).

Scott and Stringfellow, investment bankers
and brokers of Richmond, Va., has named
James A. TYLER JR. a registered representa-
tive. Tyler joined the firm in August, 1968.
He received his masters in business ad-
ministration from Emory University in
Atlanta.

THOMAS J. HoLpeN III has been selected as
Union Seminary’s (Richmond, Va.) first ex-
change student to the University of Bern
in Switzerland. He is a second-year student
at the Seminary and will spend the next
academic session at Bern studying under the
Evangelical Faculty.

1968

MARRIED: The marriage of NELSON HILL
Heap and Nina Patricia Watson was an
event of April 19, 1969 in Signal Mountain,
Tenn.

IN MEMORIAM
1896

SAMUEL Davis Stokes died in Roanoke on
Jan. 13, 1969. Stokes had practiced law in
Williamson, W.Va. from 1897 to 1923, and
had been practicing attorney in Roanoke

since 1923.
190]

HALE MATHEW Houston, long-time resident
of Austin, Tex., died March g, 1969. Houston
had been president of John Bremond, whole-
sale grocers, for many years.

1906

CLARENCE EDWIN WALLACE died Sept. 19, 1968
in Manchester, N.H. He was a retired em-
ployee of the Post Office Department.

§2;CLASS NOTES

1907

WILLIAM FINLEY SEMPLE, retired chief coun-
sel for the Deep Rock Oil Co. and former
chief of the Choctaw tribe, died March 24,
1969 in Tulsa. He was with Deep Rock for
16 years before entering general practice in
Tulsa in 1949. Semple served as chief of the
Choctaws through appointment by former
President Woodrow Wilson from 1918 until
1922. He also served three times as_ tribal
attorney. He was an authority on and had
written a book about Indian land laws. As
Choctaw tribal attorney, he spent a great
deal of time on tribal enrollment claims and
handling of tribal matters before Congres-
sional committees in Washington. He was
a member of the Tulsa and American Bar

Associations.
1908

Hiram M. Dow, long-time lawyer and
prominent citizens of Roswell, N. Mex., died
March 7, 1969. Dow, who was admitted to
the New Mexico Bar in 1908, was mayor of
Roswell from 1918 to igig. He was lieu-
tenant governor of New Mexico from 1937
to 1938, served as chairman of the National
Conference of Petroleum Regulatory Authori-
ties during World War II, and was the
New Mexico representative to the Interstate
Oil Compact Commission from 1935 to 19532.

1909

GeorGE J. Dominick died Dec. 10, 1968.
Dominick had retired eighteen years ago
after completing 37 years of service with
the Sherwin-Williams Co. One of Dominick’s
chief activities, outside of his job, was bring-
ing happiness to crippled children. For many
years in the basement workshop of his home,
Dominick repaired old jewelry and toys and
often delivered them himself to the Crippled
Children’s Hospital.

1913

Howarb P. MACFARLANE, prominent attorney
and civic leader in Tampa for more than
5° years, died Sept. 23, 1967. The son of
a pioneer Tampa family, MacFarlane’s life
spanned a distinguished career in law, gov-
ernment, industry, and civic activities. Among
his many responsible capacities, MacFarlane
served as chairman of the Welfare Board
from 1953 to 1957; as a member of the
board of directors of the Children’s Home,
Inc.; and as chairman of the Jesuit High
School. He served also as vice president and
general counsel for the Peninsular Telephone
Co.; as vice president and director of Tampa
Abstract & Title Insurance Co.; as director
and secretary of The Tribune Co.; and as
director of the Florida State Fair Association.
MacFarlane was city attorney for West Tampa
from 1913 to 1925, at which time it became
part of the City of Tampa. In 1942, he was
named Tampa’s outstanding citizen by the
Civitan Club.
1919

Joun H. Youne died Sept. 28, 1968. After
World War I, Young received his law de-
gree from the National Law School and went
with the Internal Revenue Service. He serv-

ed in California until 1934, when he was
transferred back to Washington, D.C. After
his retirement in 1952, he continued to enjoy
travel and fishing.

192]

Francis H. McNEEeR, a retired credit man-
ager for Community Savings and Loan As-
sociation in Huntington, W.Va., died Feb.
7, 1969 in Dunedin, Fla.

FRANK Love, a prominent Fayetteville, W. Va.
banker and lawyer, died April 24, 1969. He
was assistant prosecuting attorney for Fayette
County from 1926 to 1928. Love was one of
West Virginia’s most prominent bankers,
having served as director, president, and
chairman of the board of the Fayette County
National Bank. He was a Republican nomi-
nee for the office of Circuit Judge of the
12th Judicial Circuit and the office of con-
gressman from the Third District.

1922

WILLIAM) = JosIAH- LEAKE PATTON, retired
deputy comptroller of The First National
City Bank of New York, died April 6, 1969
in Clearwater, Fla. Patton, a former resident
of Richmond, had worked as a certified pub-
lic accountant for A. M. Pullen & Co. in
Richmond from 1922 to 1929. He was as-
sociated with the First National City Bank
of New York until he retired in 1962.

JAmMes MADISON, a prominent attorney in
Bastrop, La., died Sept. 24, 1968. He was
a partner in the law firm of Madison, Madi-
son, Files & Garrett, which has offices in
both Monroe, La. and Bastrop. He was a
former president of the Bastrop Fedcral
Saving & Loan Association and a director of
the Bastrop Bank & Trust Co.

1924

D. REMINGTON STONE died March 27, 1969
in Pasadena, Calif. Stone was co-author of
several books, and in recent years was iti
business in Pasadena and Bishop, Calif.

1927

O.iveR C. DAWKINS, news editor of the
Courier-Journal in Louisville, Ky., died April
14, 1969. A native of Monroe, La., Dawkins
joined the Courier-Journal in 1943 as copy
editor. He was named news editor in 1963.
At one time, Dawkins was personal secretary
to Louisiana Senator Edwin R. Broussard.
He was also telegraph editor, city news edi-
tor, and Sunday editor of the Asheville
N.C. newspapers, and was also with the
Office of War Information in Atlanta during
World War II.

Witt Yourke LANCASTER, an indepdent oil
operator in Marshall, Tex., died Sept. 11,

1968.
1929

Dr. LUTHER CAMPBELL SPENGLER JR., a Roa-
noke, Va. physician, died March 29, 1969. He
was a urologist and had received his medical
training at Johns Hopkins Hospital. During
World War Il, he served as a commander
in the U.S. Navy.

1930

ALbert Steves III, prominent business ex-
ecutive of San Antonio, died March 15, 1969.
Steves was president and executive officer
of several Steves companies in the San
Antonio area. He was an outstanding leader
in all civic and industrial affairs.

Judge W. Preston Barrie, who presided
over the James Earl Ray case, died March
31, 1969 in his chambers in Memphis, Tenn.
Judge Battle was known as a strong advocate
of the law and for rigid courtroom behavior.
He imposed strict restrictions on news cov-
erage of the Ray trial. Judge Battle began
his legal career in 1934 as a county prosecu-
tor. From 1945 to 1959, he was in private
practice, working mainly with criminal cases.
He was appointed to the bench in 1959 when
a new criminal court division was formed

in Memphis.
193]

Dr. JOHN CrAtG CLARK, former physician at
the Youth Center and urologist at the
Methodist Hospital in Philadelphia, died
Feb. 24, 1969. Dr. Clark was active in Re-
publican politics in Pemberton Township,
N.J., had served as medical director for
two county hospitals in Burlington County,
and had a general practice in Brown Mills,
N. J. After serving in World War II, he
went into the practice of urology at the
Methodist Hospital until 1967, when he

retired.
1934

ROBERT FORWARD AusTIN of Easton, Md. was
killed in a car accident on March 7, 1969.

1936

Joun Seitz EsupAaucu died March 27, 1969
in Louisville, Ky. He had lived in Louisville
for several years and was a former salesman
for a pump and machine company of
Buffalo, N.Y.

Hucu D. McNew, Sr., prominent lawyer and
former mayor of Des Peres, Mo., died Feb.
21, 1969. McNew was elected mayor of Des
Peres in 1962 and in 1964. He was the local
counsel for the National Lead Co., a board
member of the Colonial Bank in Des Peres,
and a member of the legislative committee
of Associated Industries of Missouri.

1950

‘THOMAS J. SAUNDERS died Oct. 30, 1968 while
on duty in Saigon, Vietnam. Saunders was
a commander in the U.S. Navy.

1965

LAWRENCE MASON HeEARTBURG died March 2,
1969. He did graduate work in_ business
administration at the University of Virginia,
and at the time of his death he was living

in Chicago.
1967

Robert Morrow Fortune died March 11,
1969. He was lost at sea in the Gulf of
Mexico in a plane crash while flying an
F-4B Phantom jet on tactical maneuvers.

 

GENERAL LEE’S COLLEGE

A history of Washington and Lee University
by Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw

  

Professor of History and University a
Published by Random House, New York

Sta By

This book is a work of devotion and painstaking scholar-
ship on the part of the University’ s distinguished |
historian. It will have deep meaning for everyone who
has shared the Washington and Lee experience. For all,
it is an important record of the development of one

of the nation’s great institutions.

Here is the story of Washington and Lee University as
only Dr. Crenshaw could tell it—from its beginnings as a
small classical academy to a place of prominence in
education that continues today. It is a story of crises
met and overcome, of self-sacrifice for the good of the
institution, of changing perspectives, of unusual
educational foresight, of personalities, great teachers,
outstanding administrators, distinguished alumni

who personify the best of Washington and Lee.

 

It is a book no alumnus of Washington and Lee, no
friend of Washington and Lee, no patron of higher
education can afford to be without. Be sure to obtain a
first edition copy. Please fill in and return the attached

: order form today. Mail it to The Bookstore, Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450,
together with your payment of $10.00 plus a 75-cent
handling charge for each copy purchased.

 

ORDER FORM

THE BOOKSTORE
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY |
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me_________copy(ies) of General Lee’s College, a
history of Washington and Lee University by Dr. Ollinger Cren-
shaw, at $10.00 each. (Include 75 cents handling charges for
each copy purchased).

 

Name
« .

Address Zip Code

 

: Payment of $___—is enclosed.

Price: $10.00 meg (ee ae

WASHINGTON & LEE ALUMNUS

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

1969 Fall
Sports Calendar

 

