SUMMER,

INGTON

The Mock Convention
Is Right Again

 

Washington and Lee’s Famous

Mock Convention Was Never

More Colorful or Exciting

Than It Was in 1964. The

Story of Its Correct Choice for

the Republican Nominee Be-
gins on Page Three.

 

 

THE

ASHINGTON
AND Lee

Editor

WILLIAM C, WASHBURN, 1940

Managing Editor

FRANK A. PARSONS, 1954

Editorial Associate
Mrs. ROBERT STEWART

THE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President
E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938

Vice-President
EK. STEWART EPLEY, 1949

Secretary
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

Treasurer
EK. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., 1933

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

JAmes H. CLARK, 1931

H. ‘T'YNDALL DICKINSON, 1939

E. STEWART EPLEY, 1949
‘THOMAS C. Frost, JR., 1950
ROBERT A. FULWILER, JR., 1925
‘THOMAS W. MOSES, 1939

E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., 1933
C. WILLIAM Pacy, II, 1950
JAMES W. Priest, M.D. 1943
FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN, 1924

E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938, President
SHERWOOD W. WISE, 1932

EDITORIAL BOARD

PAXTON DAvIs

FRANK J. GILLIAM, 1917

E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940
James W. WHITEHEAD

 

Published quarterly by Alumni, Incor-
porated, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the
Post Office at Lexington, Virginia, Sep-
tember 15, 1924. Printed at the Journalism
Laboratory Press of Washington and Lee
University under the supervision of C.
Harold Lauck.

 

September, 1964
Volume XXXIX

Number 3

The Cover: Cy YOuNG, 717, as fit and full of

life as ever, was a popular center of attrac-

tion at the General Reunion this June. Here

he ts in action with friends JERRY BURKE, ’15,
and Bos GRAHAM, °37, (with hat).

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

The Mock Convention Is Right Again

‘The Best Parade Ever See
Elephants from Ohio with Alumni Help

‘The University’s Largest Commencement
Charlie McDowell, Jr., on Lexington’s Big Day
Washington and Lee Receives $100,000 from Alumnus
Dr. Harry Philpott’s Memorable Reunion Address
‘The General Reunion of 1964

News of the University

Football Prospects for the New Season

Annual Meeting Hears Report on Alumni House
The Annual Financial Statement

The Alumni Fund Goes Over the ‘Top

New Leaders in the Association

‘The Report of the Executive Secretary

Class Notes

In Memoriam

Chapter News

9°

55

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Our Students
Are Right

Once Again!

For the Ninth Time in Thirteen
Attempts, the Mock Convention at
Washington and Lee Has Proven
An Authentic Political Barometer.
It Was Goldwater on the Second
Ballot, as W&L’s Students Staged the

Best Mock Convention of All!

Senior law student Puitie D. SHARP, JR., of Richmond,
chairman of the 1964 Republican Mock Convention, calls
the assemblage to order in the photograph on the opposite

page.
SUMMER 1964

HE MAN FROM Time Magazine slipped his folded
A notes into his coat pocket as he looked out across
the nearly deserted convention hall sometimes known
as Doremus Gymnasium.

There, two hours earlier, Washington and Lee’s
1,256 students—in convention assembled for the uni-
versity’s thirteenth quadrennial Mock Convention—
had nominated Senator Barry Goldwater as the Re-
publican standard-bearer, come July and November.

The man from Time turned to the Washington
and Lee publicity man and smiled. “Of course you
know you're wrong this time,” he said.

The Washington and Lee man—who had just sur-
vived his fourth Mock Convention—smiled back and
replied: “We'll see. I have a lot of confidence in the
way our boys went about this thing. I think they made
a conscientious effort to pick the right man.”

“Well,” the Time man said as he extended his
hand to bid goodbye, “if you are right this time, it
will really be a feather in your cap.”

The day was May 5, nearly a month before the
crucial California primary, and two and a half months
before the actual head-count of delegates to the Re-
publican Convention in San Francisco’s Cow Palace.
Goldwater was the front-runner in early May, it was
true, but few impartial political observers were will-
ing to predict publicly with any real confidence that
the Arizona senator’s lead in delegate strength would
hold up until mid-July.

But, Washington and Lee’s Mock Convention tra-

3

dition extends back to 1908, over a
half-century of often bold predic-
tions. When it came time for the
1964 student generation to go out
on its political limb, the nomina-
tion went to Goldwater as the man
most likely to succeed in San Fran-
cisco. Behind the student politick-
ing that gave Goldwater a second
ballot victory was a full year of
intensive research and study by
hundreds of convention officials—
the chairman, law senior Philip
D. Sharp of Richmond, his impres-
sively competent steering commit-
tee, the fifty-three state delegation
chairmen, and many others. Nev-
er in the twelve previous Mock
Conventions had so much time,
effort, and money been poured in-
to the attempt to pick accurately
the presidential nominee for the
party out of power.

At stake was the finest record of
accuracy and authenticity of any
of the country’s fifty-odd collegiate
mock conventions. ‘The record
stood at eight correct choices in

twelve tries, and there was an im-
pressive current string of correct
nominations to preserve—Eisenhow-
er in 1952, Stevenson in 1956, Ken-
nedy in ig6o.

Because of this outstanding re-
cord, the 1964 Mock Republican
Convention had attracted more at-
tention from the press and more
attention from the Republican na-
tional organization than in any
other election year. ‘The Washing-
ton and Lee process of picking the
right man was virtually on trial,
and throughout the months leading
up to the convention the Republi-
can prospectus was almost hopeless-
ly confused.

When the students gave Gold-
water a whopping 601 ballots on
the first roll-call, and then went on
to push him over on the second bal-
lot, the consensus among the news-
men and non-Goldwater GOP ob-
servers on hand was that the W&L
boys had missed by a mile.

If the man from Time doubted
the accuracy of the W&L choice, he

was impressed by the way the stu-
dents went about their 1964 Mock
Convention. In his magazine’s next
issue there was an article dealing
with the nationwide mock con-
vention phenomenon, and_ the
Washington and Lee event was fea-
tured in words and photographs.
He called the W&L affair “the
biggest and boomingest” of them
all. He described the organization
and planning of the convention in
detail, underscoring the authentic-
ity sought by the Washington and
Lee students. The article concluded
with a series of paragraph summar-
ies of what happened at some other
mock conventions. At only one—
Brooklyn College—was the choice
the same as Washington and Lee’s
and the next issue of Time carried
an indignant letter from a Brook-
lyn College student, declaring that
they did not nominate Goldwater
as reported.

There was a pattern to the
choices of the other schools. At
Oberlin, whose convention dates

SENATOR Barry A. GoLpwaTerR, who still faced strong opposition from many GOP aspirants when this photograph was taken in mid-May
receives congratulations from a delegation of Washington and Lee students who presented him with a souvenir scrapbook of the Mock
Convention which had nominated him as the Republican standard-bearer for November.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

from 1861, students chose Scran-
ton on the fourth ballott, and the
majority of colleges mentioned by
Time concurred, although one
(Vanderbilt) picked Nixon, and
another (Ohio) chose Lodge. At
Staunton’s Mary Baldwin, the
girls went for Rockefeller in their
convention held in late February.

In addition to the Time article—
a prized companion piece to a simi-
lar story on the 1960 Mock Conven-
tion that appeared in Newsweek—
the 1964 event also drew coverage
from the New York Times, the
Washington Evening Star, both
major wire services, almost every
major daily in Virginia, and a half-
dozen of the smaller dailies. ‘The
Doremus facilities for handling the
press were taxed to the limit.

The 1964 convention was well-
promoted. Beginning in June of
1963, Chairman Sharp and_ his
steering committee worked closely
with the university’s publicity of-
fice to publish a pair of promotion-
al brochures that went to every
member of Congress and to Repub-
lican leaders in every state.

Sharp’s staff called personally on
GOP leaders and on editors to ex-
plain the workings of their con-
vention and to enlist their support.
Their leg work paid handsome re-
sults in terms of funds, materials,
and advice from the Republican
organization, at both national and
state levels, and in the advance
stories on the convention and the
actual coverage by the press.

None of Washington and Lee’s
previous Mock Conventions was as
elaborate in its planning or its
execution. Phil Sharp joined an
outstanding roster of student lead-
ers who have chaired previous
Mock Conventions, but in addi-
tion to Sharp’s personal high quali-
fications for the convention’s top
job, he had available perhaps the
finest array of steering committee-
men and state delegation chairmen
to ever organize a W&L Mock Con-
vention.

SUMMER 1964

 

The 1964 Mock Convention was easier to see and hear. A ballot tally board above the

rostrum recorded the progress of the roll call of states, while delegation chairmen on

the floor announced their votes by hand microphones over the convention hall’s public
address system.

Charles B. Rowe, a senior law
student from Courtland, Va., was
assistant

convention chairman,
while Donald H. Partington, a
enior law student from Spring-
field, Va., was chairman of state
delegations. Edward M. Norton,
Jr., a Butler, Pa., senior, served as
convention secretary, and Wyatt
B. Durrette, Jr., a senior law stu-
dent from Franklin, Va., acted as
the convention’s Republican Na-
tional Chairman. Stephen P. Smith,
Ill, a junior from Jacksonville,
Fla., was publicity chairman, and
law senior Peter ‘T. Straub of St.
Louis was head of pre-convention
activities. A. John Huss, of Evans-
ton, Ill., and Donald W. Huffman

 

of Lexington, both intermediate
lawyers, headed up a finance com-
mittee that somehow marshalled
enough resources to meet the $12,-
000 in expenses incurred by the
convention.

Although not a member of the
steering committee, William  B.
“Buck” Ogilvie, a Shreveport, La.,
senior, was placed in charge of con-
vention hall arrangements, and the
decorations there were unprece-
dented in their profusion and col-
or. From Fort Lee, Va., Ogilvie
borrowed a set of fifty state flags
which ringed the convention floor
from the balcony. Giant banners
and huge photographic likenesses
proclaimed the availability of ev-

5

Chairman SHARP hangs bunting on the
Convention Hall entrance while—————

ery major candidate and some of
the minor ones. ‘Thousands of smal-
ler signs and thousands of balloons
added to the color, as did huge
quantities of red, white and blue
bunting.

Ogilvie also designed and con-
structed a giant tally board over
the platform by which everyone in
the hall could follow the mount-
ing totals of the various candidates
during the roll call of states. He
arranged for a special public ad-
dress system that permitted every
state chairman to cast his vote by
microphone from his delegation’s
section on the convention floor.
This same PA system also permit-
ted delegates to hear Senator Gold-
water personally accept the Wash-
ington and Lee nomination by tele-
phone, minutes after the conclusion
of the second ballot. Both the tal-

6

 

ly board and the expanded sound
facilities were Mock Convention
“firsts.”

But of all the workers who
helped make the 1964 Mock Con-
vention a success, none labored
more effectively than did senior
John M. Madison, Jr., also of
Shreveport. Madison served as
chairman of the traditional ‘‘kick-
off” parade that preceded the open-
ing keynote session of the conven-
tion. Like the convention itself, the
1964 parade was called the “best
ever” by old Lexington hands like
Art Silver, and many others. But
no other parade chairman ever
faced the problems and challenges
that John Madison did.

If the 1964 convention was on
trial to pick the right candidate,
its leadership also was on trial to
conduct an orderly convention, in-
cluding the parade and the con-
vention hall activities. The 1960
convention had drawn severe criti-
cism from Lexington townspeople
and others for student misbehavior
and rowdiness in the parade and
during the keynote and nominating
sessions. As soon as Chairman
Sharp had organized his steering
committee, the university—through
a special three-man advisory com-
mittee—requested the student plan-
ners to take steps to assure that
the 1964 event would in no way
embarrass the university or offend
spectators.

The steering committee request-
ed time for a special student as-
sembly in April where Sharp and
Madison emphasized the impor-
tance of student responsibility in
all matters relating to the conven-
tion. Madison’s address in particu-
lar struck just the right note of
informality and good humor that
let the meat of his message fall on
receptive ears.

Then Madison turned to the ac-

tual parade planning. Bands were

at a premium because of the co-
incidence of the Mock Convention
with the Apple Blossom Festival in

Winchester and the Azalea Festival
in Norfolk. He came up with five,
including the Staunton Military
Academy band which was accorded
the honor of leading the parade.
‘The VMI band, formerly the tradi-
tional parade leader, declined the
university's official invitation to
participate.

Madison negotiated with the
Lexington Chamber of Commerce
and the Town Council and had the
month of May proclaimed “History
and Education Month” in consider-
ation of the Mock Convention and
the Marshall Research Library
dedication at VMI. He also nego-
tiated with a firm that provided
huge quantities of bunting for dec-
orating streets, store fronts, fra-
ternity houses, and the convention
hall itself.

And there was the GOP symbol,
a live elephant, to be found. ‘The
last Republican convention, in
1952, had boasted a live baby ele-
phant for its parade, and Madison
was determined to have one for his.
He finally located an elephant own-
er who would rent his animal, but
on one condition—Madison would

 

Parade Chairman JOuUN
MADISON casis a critical eye on his work.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

have to take two elephants (big
ones, not babies) for as the man ex-
plained, “One elephant gets lone-
some.” No one was really sure the
elephants would arrive from their
home in Ohio until they pulled in-
to town aboard their own van on
the Sunday afternoon before Mon-
day’s parade. (See the related ar-
ticle on Page 15 about how an
alumnus figured prominently in
getting Madison his elephants.)

SHARP is all smiles upon the
arrival of two “GOP” ele-
phants on the day before the
convention opened on May 4.
The steering committee, with
alumni help, rented the ele-
phants from a circus in Ohio
to lead the big kickoff parade.

While the Apple Blossom festi-
val caused band problems, it
helped solve many state delega-
tions’ float problems. Some of the
more affluent state delegations con-
tracted with Winchester owners to
rent elaborate floats that had ap-
peared in the preceding Saturday’s
festival parade. ‘The floats were to
come down the Valley on Sunday,
but there was a legal technicality
about moving such vehicles on
Sunday without a permit. There
were a few anxious hours for Madi-
son and his associates before the
people of Winchester agreed to
leave at the crack of dawn on Mon-
day in order to arrive at the parade
assembly area by noon. All made
it, although the New York float
arrived only minutes before the
parade’s start.

The parade staging area was at
the Lexington Recreation Field at
the south end of town. Along the
line of march, Madison stationed

SUMMER 1964

a corps of assistant parade marshals,
some armed with walkie-talkie ra-
dios at strategic intervals to help
facilitate the parade’s smooth move-
ment.

Everything went along with pre-
cision. At 2 p.m. the parade was
ready to roll, except for one prob-
lem. President Cole and keynote
speaker Dr. Walter Judd weren't
there to take their places near the
head of the procession. Dr. Judd

and other dignitaries had been
President Cole’s guests at lunch-
eon, and although virtually every
other detail was attended to, no
one had devised a way to get them
from the President’s house to the
assembly area.

Finally, the frantic calls over the
parade radio network were over-
heard by a Lexington auto dealer
on his Citizens’ Band transceiver,
and he rushed to the Cole home,
picked up the president and Dr.
Judd and sped them, via. Volks-
wagon, to the Recreation Field.

Photographers there promptly
maneuvered Dr. Judd and Virginia
Sixth District Representative Rich-
ard Poff onto the elephants for
news photos. Judd and Poff waved
and smiled, but it was obvious they
wished their party symbol wasn't
so alive or so dirty. An attempt to
get the elephants washed that
morning apparently had failed.

A half hour late, the parade final-

ly started its mile-long march to
the convention hall. ‘There were
sixty-three separate units, includ-
ing floats from virtually every state
delegation and a handful of special
entries. Pretty girls from Hollins,
Sweet Briar, Randolph-Macon,
Mary Baldwin and other cultural
centers were on hand in lovely pro-
fusion, in many respects outshin-
ing the imported beauty queens
which have of late become a Mock

 

tradition in them-

Convention
selves.

Back in 1956 the New Jersey
delegation brought the reigning
Miss America, Sharon Kay Ritch-
ie, to the convention, and duplicat-
ed this feat in 1960 with Lynda
Lee Mead. The 1964 Miss America,
Donna Axum, was unavailable, but
the Ohio delegation invited the
1963 winner, Jackie Mayer, to be
its guest and she accepted. ‘The cur-
rent Miss Virginia, Dorcas Camp-
bell, had only to come from near-
by Fairfield, her home, and there
were four other state beauty
queens imported for the festivi-
ties. ‘These included Miss New
York (Paula Heins), Miss Texas
(Jeanie Amacker), Miss Maine
(Elaine Ouilette), and Miss South
Carolina (Carolyn Lee Gaines).

Later at the convention hall Miss
Virginia sang the National An-
them, Miss Mayer spoke briefly

(Continued on Page 10)

 

A Mile-Long Parade Kicked Off the Convention—
— the “Best Ever” Says Lexington’s Art Silver

Floats in the 1964 parade were more elaborate than ever before. Many state delegations
built their own, while others rented commercially-constructed floats from Winchester’s
Apple Blossom Festival. There were plenty of pretty girls to ride on both kinds.

 

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The most colorful float of all
was entered by the Puerto Rican
delegation. When it passed the
reviewing stand, members of the
delegation dismounted and pre-
sented Keynote Speaker Dr.
WALTER JubD with a gift bottle
of Puerto Rican rum.

The “Mink Jazz Quintet” entertains the SMA band.

 

 

 

SUMMER 1964

tO

 

Photographers coaxed Dr. JUDD and CONGRESSMAN RICHARD PorF to ride the living GOP symbols.

(Continued from Page 7)

from the podium, and the others
were introduced on the floor, all to
great acclaim.

Dr. and Mrs. Judd joined Presi-
dent and Mrs. Cole and other dis-
tinguished guests in the reviewing
stand on the president’s lawn to
watch the hour-long show. Awards
went to the best band (Staunton
Military), the best home-made float
(Texas’ LBJ barbeque), and the
best rented float (Puerto Rico).

The Puerto Rican delegation was
one of the most colorful of the con-
vention. For several days prior to
the convention its members had
attended class in white Panama
suits and Panama hats, smoking
big cigars, and looking as Latin as
possible. When their float passed
the reviewing stand, they dismount-
ed and presented Dr. Judd (a tee-
totaler) with a gift of Puerto Rican
rum.

- Judd was the keynote speaker
to the real Republican Convention
in 1960, so his choice for the Mock
Convention role was a logical one.

10

When the former Minnesota Con-
gressman finally took the podium
for the keynote address he de-
livered a real rouser of a partisan
call to arms. He accused the John-
son administration of negotiating
with the Communists from ‘a po-
sition of weakness” and he called
for a Republican victory in Novem-
ber to avert a “national disaster.”

‘The keynoter went on for an
hour and ten minutes, and if the
delegates’ response over the long
haul was perhaps a shade less than
might have been expected, it was
because they had been deadened
even before Judd began. Several
other Republican dignitaries had
been introduced to the convention,
and each had seized the opportun-
ity to pitch political hay. The
lengthy and at times inappropriate
remarks at the opening session pro-
vided the only slowdown in the
two-day convention agenda.

That night, Congressman Abner
W. Sibal of New Jersey made mer-
cifully brief remarks before the
delegates got down to the fun-
filled task of nominating the can-

didates and staging the elaborate
demonstrations. In all, fourteen
names were placed in nomination,
including that of Fred Walker, the
Doremus Gym janitor who was en-
dorsed by the Puerto Rican dele-
gation.

Among the others were Gold-
water, Gov. Nelson Rockefeller,
Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge,
Gov. George Romney, Sen. Margar-
et Chase Smith, Sen. Gordon Allot
of Colorado, Sen. Hiram Fong of
Hawaii, Winthrop Rockefeller,
Dr. Judd, Gov. William Scranton,
Richard Nixon, Gov. James
Rhodes of Ohio, and Rep. John W.
Byrnes of Wisconsin. All were ac-
corded demonstrations of varying
length and intensity, with Gold-
water and Rockefeller supporters
staging the most prolonged and
raucous.

Two huge nets filled with bal-
loons were supposed to spill their
contents from high above the con-
vention floor when Goldwater was
nominated, but the release ropes
fouled and one of the nets fell in-

tact with balloons still inside. ‘The

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Rockefeller demonstration featured
a giant paper-mache “rock” that
delegates paraded through the
convention hall.

The nominating ran over into
Tuesday morning before the roll
call of states began for the actual
balloting. With the clerk’s tradi-
tionally sonorous ‘Al-a-bamm-aah”
the voting began, and except for
the cheers from the various nom-
inees’ camps when support came
their way, a degree of seriousness
now settled over the convention.

A first ballot victory for Gold-
water was not expected, although
his campaign chairman, senior Wil-
liam Burke of Washington, D. C.,
boasted of a certain second ballot
triumph.

paigning by Goldwater, Rockefel-
ler would be the victor there by a
narrow margin.

Sylvester's announcement drew
much attention among the anti-
Goldwater forces and some criti-
cism from the pro-Goldwater dele-
gates. Throughout Monday visiting
newsmen played heavily on the
hopeful premise that California’s
refusal to back Goldwater would
stave off a first or second ballot vic-
tory, long enough to sap the sena-
tor’s delegate strength.

But Goldwater quickly built a
substantial lead, and when the first
roll call was completed, he had
amassed 601 votes, far in front of
Rockefeller’s 232, Lodge's 113, or
Scranton’s 102. The favorite sons

tion’s reputation for accuracy and
authenticity was at stake, sought an
adjournment until afternoon in or-
der to call a special meeting of
state chairmen to reemphasize their
responsibility not to vote personal
preferences.

Goldwater backers pushed for an
immediate second ballot, but in a
roll call vote on adjournment
Sharp got convention approval for
the breathing spell. As soon as dele-
gates had vacated the gym, Sharp
spoke to his chairmen, urging them
to check with their contacts in the
various states, inform them of the
first ballot results, and seek their
advice on how to vote on the next
roll call.

A special telephone room had

 

KEYNOTER JuDD attacked Democrats and Communists in a rousing address that lasted for an hour and ten minutes.

The biggest stumbling block to
a first ballot win for the Arizona
senator was the decision of the
California delegation to give its
eighty-six votes to Governor Rocke-
feller. Chairman Jim Sylvester an-
nounced prior to the convention
that his analysis of the situation in
California and neighboring Ore-
gon indicated that Rockefeller
would run strongly in both states.
The Las Vegas senior reasoned that
Rockefeller strength in Oregon
would be reflected in the California
campaign, and that in the expected
absence of spirited personal cam-

SUMMER 1964

made up the balance of the 1,308
delegates, and many of these were
expected to switch to Goldwater
on the second go-round.

Rumors circulated among the
delegates, observers, and the press
that some of Goldwater’s first-bal-
lot strength and some of his antici-
pated second-ballot support were
being derived not from educated,
well-advised political strategy dic-
tated by GOP leaders in the re-
spective states but by the delegates’
personal preferences for Goldwat-
er conservatism. Chairman Sharp,
acutely aware that the conven-

been installed in the gym, and six
so-called “hot lines” were available
for state chairmen use. The Lexing-
ton ‘Telephone Company estimated
that long distance traffic during
the course of the convention av-
eraged some 50 to 60 calls per hour
above normal. When the second
ballot began shortly after 2 p.m.,
the roll call was interrupted re-
peatedly for announcement of long
distance calls awaiting one state
chairman or another. The delega-
tion leaders apparently had made
the big effort that Sharp had re-
quested,

11

Again Goldwater vaulted into an
early and rapidly growing lead. He
picked up a handful of votes from
Arkansas, a few more from Colo-
rado, three more in Illinois. Cali-
fornia stuck with Rockefeller, but
by two’s and three’s support gath-
ered for Governor Scranton until
it became apparent that any “stop
Goldwater” movement would rally
behind the Pennsylvanian.

Maryland provided the first sig-
nificant change when Goldwater
lost six delegates and Scranton
picked up seven. Then Montana,
which had given the Arizonan four-
teen first ballot votes, switched all
fourteen to Scranton. For a mo-
ment Goldwater supporters looked
anxiously at the tally board as the
chant of “Stop Barry” echoed
through the hall.

But Ohio, after backing Gov-
ernor Brown on the first ballot,
this time gave Goldwater twenty-
five of its fifty-eight votes, and
Scranton salvaged only eight. Lit-
tle by little Goldwater edged clos-
er to the necessary 655 total, and
his count stood at 636 when Wis-
consin was called. The Bagder
State had given all of its 30 votes
to favorite son Congressman Byrnes
on the first roll call, but now it had
the power to put Goldwater over.
Chairman Fred Schaeffer of Swarth-
more, Pa., declared the state’s en-
tire block solidly behind Goldwat-
er and the convention hall erupted
into bedlam. Newsmen shook their
heads, some sadly.

Oregon and Rhode Island, which
had passed, now came in with
Goldwater support, and other states
sought recognition to change their
votes. Not all changed in favor of
the senator. New York, after split-
ting into many fragments on the
second ballot, returned ninety-two
strong for Rockefeller in defiance
of the Goldwater victory. Califor-
nia finally swung to Goldwater,
making the final total, before the
routine formality of a unanimous
motion, 718 for Goldwater, 218 for

12

Rockefeller, 162 for Scranton, 106
for Nixon, and 104 for Lodge.

During the final minutes of the
roll call, Chairman Sharp was on
the telephone at the podium, plac-
ing a call to Senator Goldwater’s
office in Washington. At the other
end, Dean Burch—destined to be-
come the national Republican
chairman—arranged to have the
senator stand by. When the nom-
ination was finally acclaimed,
Sharp announced that Goldwater
would speak to the convention over
the public address system.

Said Senator Goldwater: “I have
great regard for Washington and
Lee and its convention, and I ac-
cept with great humility the hon-
or you've bestowed upon me.” He

 

Aaall-a-bammm-ahhhh!”’

told the convention he was fight-
ing to preserve “constitutional de-
mocracy and the free enterprise
system,’ and he concluded with his
hope that the Washington and Lee
victory would be “‘a good omen for
July and November.”

The nomination of a running
mate, where absolutely no record
of accuracy is preserved at Wash-
ington and Lee, was confused but
quick. here was a rumor that
Goldwater had somehow expressed
favor of Nixon as a vice-presiden-
tial candidate, and many states be-
grudgingly gave the former vice-
president their support. But the
rumor was rapidly discredited, and

popularity contest, contrary to
Mock Convention tradition? Did
the Goldwater professionals exert
a distorting influence upon the bal-
loting? Or was Goldwater, at this
stage early in May, a much strong-
er political force that many were
willing to admit?

The Time magazine man lunch-
ed that Tuesday with Sharp, Wyatt
Durette, and Don Partington, and
came away convinced that, so far
as the convention leadership was
concerned, a conscientious and
faithful effort had been made to
reflect genuine Republican senti-
ment. An unscientific sampling of
student opinion did reflect substan-
tial personal Goldwater backing,
but this seemed coincidence rather
than a determining factor.

The Goldwater _ professionals
were active indeed, but whether
alleged disillusionment apparently
influence their coverage of the
Goldwater triumph. The New York
Times, which had devoted a full
column well up in the first section
to the first day’s activities, rele-
gated the news of the final out-
come, as one pro-Goldwater  col-
umnist put it, “back among the
truss ads.” The Associated Press
representative reported the Gold-
water win with the AP’s character-
istic Objectivity, but he made no
bones about his personal disgust
with the convention’s choice.

What was the truth of the mat-
ter? Had the students voted in a
a contest developed between Nix-
on and Scranton. Scranton was the
final victor by a twenty vote mar-
gin, 664 to 644. |

Even after Goldwater had won,
the debate continued as to whether
the students had reflected their per-
sonal choice or the advice of real
GOP insiders. Newsmen, almost to
a man, felt that the very active
presence of a corps of well-organiz-
ed Goldwater professionals had
helped swing a substantial num-
ber of ballots.

Some of the news media let the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Pennsylvania’s GOVERNOR
SCRANTON was a brief chal-
lenge to GOLDWATER dur-
ing the second _ ballot’s
progress. This Goldwater
Girl cast a worried eye at
the tally board when her
favorite lost ground in a
crucial state.

SUMMER 1964

 

13

they were successful in swinging
any states away from their intended
courses could not be proven. It zs
possible that their organization and
accumulation of political intelli-
gence may have helped underscore
the accuracy of the information
that had been gleaned from other
sources.

One of the biggest sources of
advice came from the rank and file
GOP county and city chairmen
across the nation. In mid-April, a
questionnaire had gone out from
Mock Convention headquarters to
every GOP local chairman in the
nation, some 3,400 of them. Only
two questions were asked: Which
candidates will your state delega-
tion support on the first ballot? If
after the first ballot, the totals are
Goldwater—425; Nixon—200; Scran-
ton—200; Rockefeller—150; and
Lodge—125, to whom, if to anyone,
would your delegates switch? Lo-
cal chairmen were asked to indicate
splits where appropriate.

The return from the question-
naire was nearly fifty per cent,
much greater than had been expect-
ed. The results reflected clearly, in
the opinion of Sharp and his asso-
clates, that Goldwater did indeed

have sufhcient strength to win in
July.

Now, with the events of mid-
July in San Francisco lending some
clarity of interpretation to the
Washington and Lee scene of early
May, it does seem that the Wash-
ington and Lee students did, in
fact, a truly remarkable job of
political forecasting. Much has
been written since July about the
strength and the vitality of the
Goldwater organization that built
up after the bleak days which fol-
lowed the New Hampshire prim-
ary. A comparison of first ballot
votes at Lexington and San Fran-
cisco suggests that, as far as was hu-
manly possible in April and May,
the Washington and Lee students
had indeed detected this burgeon-
ing Goldwater strength, had noted
the efficiency of its organization,
had interpreted the strategy of
state convention control, and had,
finally, translated this intelligence
into a Goldwater victory at the
Mock Convention.

So now the record stands at nine
correct choices in thirteen conven-

tions, with four bull’s-eyes in a row.
None was an easy selection. ‘Taft
was the front-runner in 1952 when

Washington and Lee and Chair-
man Townsend Oast chose Eisen-
hower and were right. Stevenson,
Symington, and Kefauver were all
possibilities when Carl Swanson’s
tragedy-marked 1956 convention
chose Stevenson and was right.
Kennedy had yet to win the West
Virginia primary or to make his
famous Houston address to Protest-
ant ministers when Charles McCor-
mick’s 1960 convention made him
the nominee and was right. A more
contused situation could not be im-
agined in 1964 when Phil Sharp’s
convention spotted the Goldwater
movement for its true strength.

‘The 1964 convention left an un-
precedented collection of records
and other data to guide the organ1-
zation of future Mock Conventions
at Washington and Lee. Sitting
among the rank and file delegates
in May, 1964, was a young man to
whom responsibility will fall in
1968 of carrying on one of Wash-
ington and Lee’s proudest student
traditions. Whoever he may be, he
already has his work cut out for
him, but his task will be aided by
the exemplary work of the 1964
Mock Convention.

It was the best.

 

14

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Know Any New
Elephant Fokes, George?

(Alumnus Grorce TZANGAS, ’56L, helped lo-

cate the elephants which led the Mock Con-

vention parade. Here is an account of the

elephants’ departure for Lexington by re-

porter Ep Downe of the Canton, Ohio,
Repository.)

= PEOPLE WONDERED when Canton Atty. George Tzan-
gas began to talk about elephants.

“I'll get your elephants for you,” he assured some-
one over the phone. His secretary and law partner
began to wonder if Mr. T'zangas weren’t ready for the
booby hatch.

Mr. ‘T'zangas had found himself charged with the
responsibility of transporting two elephants, or five
and one-half tons of pachyderms, to Lexington, Va.,
home of Washington and Lee University.

He explained that every four years since 1908 the
university has held a mock political convention, and
every time they have had a Republican convention
they have also had elephants.

Mock Convention chairman Philip Sharp handed
Mr. Tzangas the task of getting two elephants to
Lexington in time for the convention parade.

Mr. ‘Tzangas, a Washington and Lee alumnus, ar-
ranged to have the elephants transported from Diano’s
Ranch southeast of Canton to the university—about
425 miles.

Shortly before departure time Saturday the attor-
ney, this reporter and photographer Jim Brown. ar-
rived at Diano’s Ranch.

We were introduced to handler Henry (Blackie)
McGrothers who seemed a little nervous about trans-
porting the animals in a huge van. In fact he in-
formed us they had trouble starting the truck that
morning.

“Do you think you'll make it all right?” Mr. Tzan-
gas asked.

“IT think I'll be okay,” Blackie said. And then he
added, “As long as the truck doesn’t break down.”

We were led to the barn where two elephants stood
side by side.

“Will they hurt us?” we asked.

“Not as long as I’m with you,” Blackie told us. We
felt better.

Blackie led the elephants out the door. He loaded
one elephant named Betsy into the van, while the
other elephant carefully climbed over a barbed wire
fence and began hot-footing it across the pasture.

Blackie realized he was losing an elephant. He be-

SUMMER 1964

 

GEORGE TZANGAs bids Betsy goodby.

gan running across the pasture shouting things people
shout at elephants when they are trying to catch them.

“Well, there goes your elephant,” we told Mr.
Tzangas.

“Hed be: back? Mr: ‘T’zangas said as the elephant
and Blackie disappeared over a hill.

We waited for five...then ten minutes. Mr.
Tzangas seemed less confident.

“What,” we asked, “if he runs to Canton and be-
gins terrorizing the city?” We had heard of elephants
getting loose in a native village and trampling the in-
habitants.

In the meantime the other elephant began bang-
ing against the side of the van and trumpeting. We
theorized she missed the other elephant, or wanted a
little exercise herself.

“I believe she is going to get out,” Mr. Tzangas
said.

We agreed, and decided to move some distance
away.

Upon the scene came John Bein, who assured us
the elephants often get away. They run until they
get tired of exercising, he said, and then they can
be led back.

Apparently this elephant named Katie had enough
exercise because shortly thereafter she and Blackie
came over the hill together looking like old friends.

Katie was loaded into the truck.

Feeling somewhat like African adventurers, we
walked up to the house to call Mr. Sharp in Lexington
and tell him his elephants were on the way.

Ih

 

The Largest Graduating
Class in the University’s
History Receives Degrees

From President Fred Cole

HE LARGEST JUNE GRADUATING CLASS in the his-
Le of the University received bachelor de-
grees in commencement exercises conducted in
perfect weather on the front campus lawn on
June 5.

President Cole conferred degrees upon 253
seniors, including thirty-six in the School of Law,
eighty-two in the School of Commerce and Ad-
ministration, and 135 in the College.

President Cole delivered the graduating ad-
dress, calling on seniors to expand their concept
of the American free enterprise system to include
the academic world, recognizing, in Jefferson’s
words, “‘the illimitable freedom of the human
mind.”

“Consider these words,” President Cole said.
“The iulimitable freedom of the human mind—
the freedom and courage to follow truth down
new and adventurous paths—protection against
error by reason rather than by repression; here
we have a firm faith, I believe, for all liberty and
hope for the world.”

Washington and Lee conferred honorary de-
grees upon four distinguished persons, three
of them graduates of the University.

Dr. Stuart A. MacCorkle, ’24, director of the
Institute of Public Affairs of the University of
‘Texas, received the Doctor of Laws degree, as
did Dr. Andrew Tod Roy, ’25, vice-president of
Chung Chi College in Hong Kong, and Dr.
Louis B. Wright, director of the Folger Shakes-
peare Library in Washington, D.C. Dr. Samuel
L. Raines, ’21, Memphis physician and president >
of the American Urological Association, received
the Doctor of Science degree.

 

Commencement, 1964

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

Yoo-Hoo!!!

 

PRoFEssors MCDOWELL, STEVENS and CRENSHAW view the procession.

 

The faculty marches on.

 

Smiles for some, straight faces for others.

PRESIDENT COLE poses with the honorary degree recipients followin

g the commencement ceremony. From left, PRESIDENT COLE, Dr.
ANDREW Top Roy, Dr. Stuart A. MAcCorkLe, Dr. Louis

B. WriGHT, and Dr. SaMuEL L. RAINES. All Dut Dr. WricHtr are alumni of
Washington and Lee.

 

SUMMER 1964

17

 

A well-secured PRESIDENT
JOHNSON, far right, speaks
before the new research li-
brary. A Secret Service
agent stands guard in the
foreground, while State
Police and National
Guardsmen survey _ the
scene from atop the new
building.

Lexington’s Biggest Day of All
Brings Thousands to VMI

Presidents Johnson and Eisenhower Spoke
At the Dedication of the Marshall Library;

Alumnus Charlie McDowell, Jr., Wrote a Hometown

Account for His Richmond ‘Times-Dispatch Column

By CHARLES MCDowELL, JR.

LEXINGTON, May 23—For years we had been
meaning to take the children to a parade at Virginia
Military Institute. It was just one of those things that
an old Lexingtonian had not got around to on the
visits to the grandparents.

Saturday it did occur to us to take the children over
to the parade ground to show them what a good show
the Institute can put on to liven things up in a small
town. It was a very nice parade.

The corps of cadets looked as splendid and precise
as it always had in our youthful days as a fairly steady
parade-goer, and the band playing the “Spirit of VMI”
at the end of the review still managed to stir the frosty
heart of a Washington and Lee type.

‘The children enjoyed the marching and also the
subsequent arrival of some famous people for speech-
making on the steps of the new George C. Marshall
Research Library.

i8

 

President Johnson came in one of four helicopters
that landed on the parade ground where we used to
try to learn to hit a two-iron. Former President Eisen-
hower came, too, and Governor Harrison, and Secre-
tary of State Rusk and various members of the cabinet,
and Senators Byrd and Robertson, and General Omar
Bradley, and a variety of congressmen and generals
and Secret Service men in dark glasses.

The children decided that VMI was a very lively
and interesting place, indeed, and wondered why we
had been keeping it from them.

* * * * *

WE TOWNSPEOPLE have held prolonged discus-
sions on the subject of what this was the greatest Lex-
ington event since.

Some contended that there never was anything re-
motely in the same league with this gathering, and

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

others hark back to the dedication of a statue of
Stonewall Jackson in the cemetery.

A few people tried to compare the occasion to foot-
ball games of the dim past in which one or the other of
the local colleges defeated the University of Virginia,
but that sort of historical perspective probably should
not be taken seriously.

One historian said flatly that the dedication of the
Marshall Library, with the attendant assemblage of
dignitaries, was the most awesome event in Lexington
since Hunter’s Raid.

General David Hunter’s Union troops shelled VMI
and set fire to it in 1864 or thereabouts. In fact, there is
still a cannon ball from that occasion embedded in the
outer wall of the barracks.

(At the risk of straying too far from current events,
we might say that there is a school of thought which
holds that the late Col. William Couper put the can-
non ball in the wall as a conversation piece.)

* * * * *

RARELY HAVE SO MANY people in Lexington
had so many house guests. “I am sleeping on the
floor,” one man said, “in my own house.”

For Lexington this was a reunion of three or four
generations of children, in-laws, cousins, alumni of
VMI and W&L, friends and strangers.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

At right, the impressive memorial
library which honors GEN. GEORGE
C. MARSHALL. Below left, former
PRESIDENT EISENHOWER and Mrs.
JOHNSON acknowledge the crowd’s
applause as they arrive. Below right,
after PRESIDENT JOHNSON’s address,
Virginia SEN. A. WILLIS ROBERTSON
greets him on the rostrum. Mr.
JOHNSON, speaking in the senator’s
hometown, failed to mention his
presence among the dignitaries.

SUMMER 1964

Everyone seemed to have a really good time. The
President apparently enjoyed the interlude, his heli-
copter sparing him the traffic jam, and the people en-
joyed having the President. He took several chances to
plunge into the crowd and shake hands. His manner
was friendly and flattering with no overtones of a
visit to poverty-stricken hill people.

* * * * *

SPECULATION on the size of the crowd varied
widely. A state police captain said 10,000, but that
was based on the number of cars in special parking
lots, allowing two and a half people, or some such
figure, to the car.

Reluctant as we are to argue with the state police,
the crowd was much larger than 10,000. The state
police counters missed all the houseguests’ cars crowd-
ed into driveways and parked in ingenious places all
over town. We came five or six to the car, too.

We would say that there were 10,000 townspeople
and houseguests plus the visitors who parked in the
special lots. About 20,000 would seem fair to us, allow-
ing for our hometown pride, and a VMI officer’s esti-
mate of 15,000 strikes us as eminently conservative.

Anyway, there were twice as many people trying to
get Cokes in McCrum’s Drug Store as we ever saw, and
that is an index that means something.

+6

 

 

JAMEs C. AMBLER, 718

N ENDOWMENT FUND to strength-
A en the salaries of teachers of
liberal arts subjects has been estab-
lished at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity by alumnus James C. Amb-
ler, °18, of New York and Mont-
clair, N. J.

A gift of $100,000 from’ Mr. Am-
bler will sustain the James C. Am-
bler and James C. Ambler, Jr., En-
dowment Fund for Faculty Salaries
in the Liberal Arts.

Mr. Ambler’s gift is an outgrowth
of the concern he and his son, a
recent graduate of Washington
and Lee, share in regard to proper
compensation for liberal arts pro-
fessors. ‘They have requested that
income from the Ambler Fund be
used exclusively for this purpose.

A Gift of

$100,000 from

. CG. Ambler

Mr. Ambler is chairman of the
board of Ginn and Company, edu-
cational publishing firm in New
York City. He attended Washing-
ton and Lee from 1914 to 1916 as
a member of the class of 1918, and
he has remained a faithful and ac-
tive alumnus.

James C. Ambler, Jr., received
his B.A. degree from Washington
and Lee in 1962 and is now serving
in the United States Navy as a lieu-
tenant (j.g.) at the Oceana Naval
Air Station.

At the same time Mr. Ambler in-
formed Washington and Lee of his
gift, he also announced a gift of
$100,000 for the Woodberry Forest
School, to be used to establish the
James C. Ambler, Jr., Chair of
English. Lieutenant Ambler is a
graduate of the Virginia prepara-
tory school.

Mr. Ambler is a native of Fau-
quier County in Virginia and once
served as superintendent of schools
there. He has given generously to

 

JAMEs C. AMBLER, JR., ’62

the Fauquier High School for furn-
ishings for its auditorium and stage.

President Cole expressed the
University’s gratitude for Mr. Am-
bler’s gift in these words:

‘This highly important and time-
ly gift from Mr. Ambler does more
than add welcome new funds in an
area of great importance to Wash-
ington and Lee. The income from
this endowment will be put to im-
mediate good use, but there will
be another continuing benefit de-
rived by the University. That is the
encouragement and _ inspiration
that my faculty associates and I
share when we see such loyalty on
the part of alumni for Washington
and Lee and their vital concern for
its future role in higher education.”

Wilbur C. Hall Establishes Law Loan Fund

GIFT Of $10,000 from alumnus
Wilbur. C. Hail, (i5L of
Leesburg, Va., will help provide
much-needed loan funds for stu-
dents in the School of Law.
Income from the Wilbur C. Hall
Fund will pay tuition and other
educational expenses of deserving
law students, with special prefer-
ence for Virginia residents.
Mr. Hall is a prominent Lees-
burg attorney and a former mem-
ber of the Virginia legislature. He

20

 

WILBuR C. HALL, 7151

has been an active Class Agent and
a participant in many other alum-
ni activities.

Last December he was honored
as an alumni initiate of Washing-
ton and Lee’s Alpha Circle of Omi-
cron Delta Kappa.

“Mr. Hall’s generous gift,” said
President Cole, “helps the Univer-
sity make significant progress in its
efforts to increase the availability
of loan funds as a means of finan-
cial aid for students.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

“I Am Grateful .. .”

Dr. Harry M. Philpott, ’38, Told
The General Reunion Convocation
Of the Many Reasons Why He Is
Grateful to His Alma Mater; Many
Who Heard Him Urged That His
Address Appear in the Magazine

 

Dr. HArry M. PHILporTt, ’38, is Vice-President
of the University of Florida at Gainesville,
Florida.

SUMMER 1964

We bR. COLE called me to ask if it might be pos-

sible for me to be present on this occasion I was
tremendously honored and pleased, because it gave me
an opportunity, first of all, to come home again—some-
thing that I’ve found you can do even though changes
take place. ‘There still is so much that is just about the
same as it was when you knew it. It gave me an oppor-
tunity, also, to have the fellowship and renew the
friendship that I enjoyed with so very many of you.

In thinking about something to say, I felt that I
might take the opportunity to do a little correcting
of some errors that I made about 25 years ago here at
the University. I hold in my hand a copy of the
Southern Collegian for December, 1937. Now Cy
Young’s about to burst because he remembers that
this issue resulted in the Southern Collegian being
banned on the campus in 1937. In going back through
this particular copy, I had some trouble finding out
exactly why it was banned. Maybe I come from a much
more liberal part of the country at the present time,
but if I were fortunate enough to get a copy of the
“humor magazine” in my institution which was as
clean as this one I never would complain! At any rate,
it was banned.

I have an article in here. I had some pipelines into
the faculty meetings in those days and I’m informed
when the faculty was discussing the banning of this
particular issue that one member of the faculty who

21

was opposed to the ban got up and said, “Now the
great campus liberal Harry Philpott has an article in
here. You're not going to throw him out, are you?”
The article has a question. “Are we getting an educa-
tion?” It was written when I was a senior here at
Washington and Lee. Unfortunately, in answering the
question, I left some doubt. Or maybe fortunately. I’m
not sure.

Wise Counsel from Dr. Gaines

In those days I had a great crusading desire. I re-
member a year or so later, after I had served here at
Washington and Lee and was about to take a leave of
absence for graduate work, I read the Carnegie report
on graduate education which came out in the spring
of 1940. The report took to task the American gradu-
ate school because of its specialization in graduate
work. It said that we are producing researchers and
not teachers in our graduate programs. I was so impres-
ed by that that I began to think about my own gradu-
ate program. I went in one day to see Dr. Gaines and
said, “I’ve come up with a new program. I want to go
to Yale one year, to Columbia one year and to Chicago
one year. I want to forget all about taking a Ph.D. be-
cause I don’t think that I can get the same kind of
educational experience that I could get if I simply
went to these institutions and took the courses that I
wanted to take.” In his kind fashion he said, ‘“That
sounds wonderful. It’s a marvelous program. But
Harry, if you’re going to stay in college work I’d better
tell you this. A Ph.D. is like a pair of pants. If you’ve
got it you fit in. But if you haven’t got it, you’re just
as noticeable as you can be around the institution.”
I must confess that it was sound and sage advice. At

 

99
om

this later stage, I am delighted that I took it. For-
tunately, I was able to combine some of my crusading
and innovating desires along with the graduate pro-
gram I had.

This particular article made three complaints
about our educational experience at Washington and
Lee. ‘Uhe first of these was that so many of our extra
curricular activities were totally useless. In part, this
was true. A great many of our extra curricular activi-
ties, (here are some of my fraternity brothers sitting
here. If we got together in private, we could document
this.) from the perspective of 25 years later, were quite
useless. And yet, looking back, so many things that ap-
peared to be useless at that time were activities which
contributed tremendously to growth and_ develop-
ment, to the ability later on to handle a variety of ex-
periences. After all, it’s very difficult from within a par-
ticular situation or within a particular activity to give
an objective and true evaluation of the worth of that
situation or activity. In retrospect, as we gather to-
gether as alumni and think back over our experiences
at Washington and Lee, I’m sure that for many of us
the extra curricular activities in which we participated
made almost as much contribution as the course work
that we experienced.

I complained in this article that there was a sepa-
ration between the classroom and the world, that what
we were learning was not related to the reality of life
itself, and that we were too remote from the main-
stream of life. In retrospect, I forgot about Words-
worth’s lines:

“The world is too much with us; late and soon,
Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers:
Little we see in Nature that is ours.”

Dr. Puitporr, left, dis-
plays the controversial
Southern Collegian isswe
tio which he referred in
his address to alumni. En-
joying the laugh are
VAUGHAN BEALE, ’39, and
Jerry A. Burke, Jr., ’38.
ALTON SARTOR, ’38, has his
back to the camera.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

From another perspective I would yearn for a time
when the world was not quite so much with us, when
it was possible to be more remote from the mainstream
of life in order that one might see and one might ana-
lyze a little bit better that which was taking place. We
can rejoice that at least for a small period of time in
lite we had an opportunity to pull back but not com-
pletely withdraw, to see things through a little bit
more detached perspective.

A “Thought Map” of the Universe

I complained also about the inadequacy of the
curriculum in this article. The main thing that I
hollered about was the lack of survey courses. Even
in those days I think I wanted someone to produce
my metaphysic for me, someone who would analyze
all of the material and bring it together so that I
might have a thought map of the universe laid out
for me without any kind of cogitation and effort on
my part. When I look back and see the kind of cur-
riculum that we had at Washington and Lee, when I
see the unity that ran through that curriculum in
comparison with other educational institutions, I
didn’t have a great deal to complain about.

I served on an evaluation team recently at a large
southern university and looked through the cata-
logue. (i was looking through it very carefully. I don’t
dare do this in my own institution because of what I
might see, but I am willing to do it for other people.
You can’t make changes in your own situation, but
you feel perfectly free as an expert in another town
to make recommendations.) In this particular institu-
tion I noticed two courses at the graduate level. One
was entitled “The Teaching of Political Science in
Colleges” and the other was entitled “College Teach-
ing of Political Science.’ Each one carried three hours
credit. I had to inquire about this and was told by
the chairman of the department that one was directed
toward the teaching of political science in junior col-
leges and one was directed toward the teaching of
political science in four-year institutions. This was
sufficient rationale for splitting up the course and to
making it two separate courses. Well, that’s an ex-
treme case of fragmentation.

We did, I think, have available to us a great deal
more unity and we had available more survey courses
than existed in those days in most institutions.

The American higher education picture today is
most confusing. The late Chancellor Kirkland of Van-
derbilt used to tell about a Negro janitor in the early
days of Vanderbilt who also doubled as the campus
guide. He would take groups of visitors around the
Vanderbilt campus for viewing purposes and when
he brought them back to the main building at the end

SUMMER 1964

of his tour he always dismissed them with the saying
that “Education am de palladium of our liberties and
de pandemonium of our civilization.”

If it were true of Vanderbilt and other institutions
fifty to sixty years ago, how much more true it is of
higher education in general today! I don’t know how a
contemporary student would answer the question “Are
we getting an education?”

We are faced, for example, with the tremendous
pressure of numbers today. When I entered Washing-
ton and Lee thirty years ago, one of the things said to
us in the orientation program was that already we
were one of an elite group. Only ten per cent of all
the high school graduates were going to be able to go
to college in 1934. In 1964, fifty-five per cent of the
college-age population in the United States is enrolled
in an institution of higher learning. The numbers
have not only increased in recent years but more are
yet to come. In my state, for example, we had twenty
per cent more seniors graduating from high school this
year than we had one year ago. I remind you that
the high school seniors of this year were born in 1946—
most of them. The sheer weight of numbers is pre-
senting tremendously complex problems for American
higher education. We cannot produce the teachers
fast enough to take care of the numbers.

Washington and Lee, in one sense of the word, es-
capes this pressure because of the wisdom of those
who have guided its destiny and chosen to limit its en-
rollment. I hope, personally, that they have limited
its enrollment, not because of the philosophical be-
lief that you can do the best educational job with
only a certain number of students, but because they
have been convinced that the total resources of this
institution are sufficient only to take care of a certain
number. Even so, and I know this from contacts with
alumni, I am certain that those in charge of the in-
stitution at this time are frequently upbraided by
alumni and by friends of the institution who unfortu-
nately may not have succeeded in getting their sons

Into this institution, or by the friend of a friend of

a friend who’s “most important to me in my business,
or in my political life.”

The Importance of Selectivity

Every institution today must be selective. There is
available for any student who wishes a higher educa-
tion a place in American higher education today. It is
not always available in the first institution of his
choice, or at the particular place where he would like
to be, but no American young person is going to be
excluded from an educational experience today if he
truly has the desire and if he has the requisite prepa-
ration which will enable him to take advantage of this.
The pressure of numbers is such that every institution

23

of higher education for the next few foreseeable years
certainly is going to have a tremendous struggle simp-
ly to take care of the demand that is placed upon it.

Because of the numbers, it becomes increasingly
difficult to provide a quality educational experience.
It is very difficult to maintain a curricular program
which provides the highest quality of educational ex-
perience at the same time you're trying to care for the
increase in numbers.

We are also confronted with the explosion of
knowledge that is taking place, not only in our nation
but throughout the world. It is very easy to document
this in many respects. Alfred North Whitehead in
one of his essays made the observation that from the
time of the Roman senator to the time of George
Washington basically life did not change much. True,
there were new insights, there were new developments.
But Washington rode in a four-wheeled horse-drawn
vehicle, as did the Roman senator. He lived in the
same kind of world so far as material things were con-
cerned. ‘The tremendous revolution that has taken
place in our material world in the last century and a
half would be beyond comprehension by anyone who
had not experienced a portion of it. The increase in
scientific knowledge can be documented in our own
experiences. Coming up here, I was thinking about a
course in freshman physics that I took, in which un-
fortunately I didn’t learn too much. One thing that I
learned as an axiom was that the atom was the small-
est particle of matter and was indivisible. Thirty years
ago. Think of all of the tremendous strides that have
come in that period of time. We have developing in
our educational institutions a great pressure for un-
covering new knowledge and the development of new
facts and new materials.

The Need for Teaching Balance

‘The research programs of most of our institutions
provide a kind of threat to the teaching program of
our institutions. One of the hardest jobs of a college
administrator is to maintain some kind of balance
between the research enterprise and the teaching en-
terprise. And it’s a source of great comfort and, at
least, of great encouragement to me as an educator to
know that this institution has continued to emphasize,
primarily, the teaching function. Research, as it con-
tributes to better teaching, as it increases the capacity
of the instructor, is of great importance but it is not
to be a substitute for teaching responsibility.

We find great problems in the financing of higher
education today. As was noted last night by Dean At-
wood, there seems to be a rather general unwilling-
ness on the part of a large segment of the American
population to adequately finance our educational sys-

24

tem. We are confronted by rising costs, tremendously
rising costs. ‘The University of Chicago in the year
1940 was able to devote $100 of expense money to
each biology professor. By 1960 it was necessary to
budget $50,000 per biology professor at that Univer-
sity. The same kind of cost increase can be seen in ev-
ery aspect of American higher education today. When
Michelson in 1887 performed his experiment leading
to the measuring of the speed of light he contributed
significantly to scientific advance. Firty years later it
was decided in observing the anniversary of this event
that the experiment should be repeated. And it was
repeated at a cost of twenty times more than it cost
originally to do the work.

We are confronted by great numbers, we are con-
fronted by a real problem in maintaining quality be-
cause of the shortage in teachers and instructors. We
are confronted by the demands for the extension of
knowledge, and the great explosion of knowledge. We
are confronted by the worries and the concerns of
financing higher education. But these are things that
are of concern to everyone. Largely, in a situation like
this, we come back to personal memories and the desire
for some kind of personal analysis.

“Did We Get an Education?”

‘The main thesis of what I would like to share with
you today is a second question. It is not “Are we get-
ting an education?” but “Did we get an education?”
Did we, who shared together these experiences at
Washington and Lee, come out with what we can truly
call an education? I think we would probably have
difficulty in defining what we meant by “an educa-
tion.” Our answer to this question is impressionistic
at best, with only one or two little points we can draw
together. May I, from the perspective of one who
wrote an article twenty-five years ago and who wishes
to bring it up to date at this moment, share with you
what I feel personally was so helpful to me at Wash-
ington and Lee; and share with you that for which I
shall be eternally thankful.

In terms of my own experience here, I am grateful
particularly for the fact that at Washington and Lee
the individual was important. I recognized that in the
article, because I said we can all be thankful that
Washington and Lee ascribes to the philosophy of
Ralph Waldo Emerson who said: ‘““The secret of edu-
cation lies in respecting the pupil.” It is true of Wash-
ington and Lee throughout its history that it has al-
ways respected the pupil. This is not true of every
educational institution. This is not true of every Am-
erican college today. It is true in some measure, I am
sure, of faculty members in every institution but there
are many in American higher education who are the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

proponents of knowledge for knowledge’s sake with-
out any reference to the individual.

‘This institution stands in a tradition which exalts
the worth of the human personality, which says that as
a child of God this personality is of infinite worth
and which maintains that the job that we have to do
is a job with individuals. Because of that, all of us, I
am sure, can say together that during our student
days here we didn’t feel that we were just a number.
Oh, it may be true that during the first 10 days we
might have felt lost. It may have been that in the first
few days away from home we were not sure there was
any kind of stability that we could find for oureslves
in this situation. But at least “gg and 44/100’s per
cent” of us very soon found that we were accepted
here by the faculty and by fellow students as individu-
als. We were accepted as persons of worth.

We were given the kind of deep belief and convic-
tion which was held by those with whom we were
associated. I am grateful that this institution was in-
terested in me as a whole person and that it was not
simply concerned with my intellectual goal. I’ve al-
ready commented about the retrospective view of some
of the extra curricular activities. This institution has
never said that man is simply a creature with a brain.
It has recognized that he is a social being, that he is
a moral being, and that he is a spiritual being. And
it has tried to produce, in an educational environ-
ment, a series of experiences which would be beneficial
to the growth and to the development and the highest
attainment in all of these realms.

An “Amalgamated Son of Rest’

I am grateful at this moment that Washington and
Lee demanded of me hard, substantial work. I prob-
ably was not as grateful thirty years ago. I think that
I was probably one of those who sought always to
align himself with the Amalgamated Sons of Rest
while he was enrolled in this institution. Like many of
you, I went through the catalogue and tried to pick
out the “crip” courses in order that I might have a
rather easy educational experience. I am glad now that
I found that there were very few of those. Even those
which were pointed out to me by others as being easy
courses in the final analysis did not turn out to be.

If you look back over your experience here, as I
have been looking back over mine the last couple of
weeks, you do honor to those men who required hard
work of you, who made you sweat, who made you run
scared, and who, therefore, enriched your lives to a
degree that could never have been possible if you had
simply been allowed to coast. In a day and in an age
when such an overwhelming number of people are try-
ing to find ways and means to get by with as little ex-
penditure of energy as possible, I celebrate the fact

SUMMER 1964

that this institution has stood for the requirement of
hard and diligent work. And I am grateful to it for
having demanded that of me.

I am grateful for the fact that this institution has
always had a high concern for the values of life. One il-
lustration will suffice—to call to your mind the em-
phasis which was placed here on honor and the honor
system. I know other institutions where honor in class-
room work is almost non-existent. Indeed, I fear the
tendency which seems to be increasing in higher edu-
cation today for young people to find the ways and the
means by which they can somehow get around doing
something; the willingness to lie and cheat, simply
to get a grade. There is abroad a kind of moral rela-
tivism which I think personally stems in large measure
from Marxist philosophy and the influence it’s had on
American thought, subtly; a belief that there is no
such thing as right or wrong, the belief that this is
simply a matter for the individual and whatever the
individual may decide is right for himself.

The Discipline of Honor

Although there may have been situations in which
the honor system seemed to be tough or even unjust,
I celebrate the fact that I participated in a tradition
and in a heritage that demanded rigorous standards
of honor and which would brook no compromise when
it came to honesty. I feel that the stand which was
taken in behalf of the value of honesty by this institu-
tion is one of the greatest needs of contemporary so-
ciety today, opposing the belief that nothing is right or
wrong but thinking makes it so. I subscribe to the
philosophy stated in one of the essays of Heywood
Broun when he said: “It is better I believe to be wrong
on occasion than to be forever an inquiring neutral.
There can be such a thing as constructive fanaticism.”
We live in an age which is crying desperately for peo-
ple who are not inquiring neutrals but who are will-
ing to be constructively fanatical in their adherence
to certain standards and certain values. I am grateful
that Washington and Lee permitted me to have an ex-
perience of this type here and to formulate a convic-
tion which I trust will live with me forever.

More particularly, I am grateful for the fact that
here at Washington and Lee I encountered a dedicated
faculty of teachers. ‘There are so many present this
morning that I’m going to avoid naming anyone be-
cause I am sure to overlook someone. I wrote in the
little article something that I’d like to take back at
this time. I put in here that “at Washington and Lee
among the faculty members we have many strenuous
minds but few rich ones.” I retract that statement to-
day. I retract it because I had no basis really for mak-
ing the observation at that time. I had not been to a
number of institutions and I had not really formu-

2)

lated a definition of what constituted a rich mind. It
was a good sounding phrase to a college senior and per-
haps I was overwhelmed by the sound of the phrase
itself rather than the content.

In retrospect, I knew many rich minds here at
Washington and Lee, many dedicated teachers. Car-
lyle said that “the true university is a collection of
books” but in my own experience I qualify that by
adding that the true university is also a collection of
great people. For the books have to be interpreted and
the books have to be given to the student with a cer-
tain amount of guidance. I have often said that edu-
cation is something that you catch from other people,
even more than it is something that you are able to
dig out of a book. I celebrate the professor here who
opened the Old Testament for me and made some ob-
scure phrases and some obscure figures of speech live.
I celebrate the professor who opened Shakespeare’s
work for me and who made the plays of Shakespeare
live because the characters paraded across the front of
the classroom. I owned a copy of the Old Testament
and I owned a copy of Shakespeare but I would never
have received what I have from these books if it had
not been for the magnificent interpretation and the
spirit which was conveyed by faculty members and
those who guided me in this institution.

As I survey the teaching profession today I am
concerned by the fact that there seem to be more and
more individuals who are viewing it as a profession
rather than a vocation, who look upon it as a means
of earning a living, much more than they do a com-
mitment to the future. When you analyze educational
achievement in terms of the student semester hours
produced by the individual faculty member, when
you equate quantity of work with guality, when you
recruit men whose interest is purely in research and
whose concern is not the human being, you begin to
do a great disservice to higher education. Arthur
Guiterman wrote a little verse about Mark Hopkins.
He said:

‘Mark Hopkins sat on one end of the log,

And a school boy sat on the other;

Mark Hopkins came as a pedagogue

But he taught as an older brother.

I don’t care what Mark Hopkins taught,

If his Latin was small or his Greek was naught,

I only know that the schoolboy, thought,
thought he,

All through the lecture time and quiz,

The kind of a man I'd like to be

Is the kind of a man Mark Hopkins is.”

I celebrate the fact that I encountered here great
spirits. Great spirits who not only broadened my in-
tellectual and social horizon but individuals, the qual-
ity of whose life I could emulate. The kind of a man
I'd like to be is the kind of a man so many of those
were. And so I retract my statement and I express my
gratitude for the fact that I did have an encounter
with so very many rich minds.

Finally, I am grateful for the fact that Washing-
ton and Lee has always placed an emphasis on the
place of great faith and the necessity of belief in God
Almighty. Outside this Chapel, just over here, is the
white tomb of William Graham. “He was distinguished
for his strength and the originality of his genius, and
the successful tenor of his exertions in behalf of solid
literature and evangelical piety.” I had to memorize
that when I was being initiated in my fraternity. So
William Graham, the first president of Liberty Hall
Academy, distinguished for solid literary achievement
and evangelical piety, for his great belief in the worth
of human beings, belief in the divinity of this universe,
and belief in the guiding hand of God Almighty in the
direction of the affairs of men, has been characteris-
tic of this institution.

The great spirit who rests in this Chapel under-
took the building of this edifice for the worship of
Almighty God as the first and most important contri-
bution that he could make to Washington College.
You and I inherited a tradition but we inherited
more—an example—and it is because of this that our
lives have been stamped indelibly with the imprint
of this faith.

Our Obligation to the Future

‘There is a final word. It has been said that that
which we have received from our fathers we must pass
on to others before we can truly call it our own. You
and I who have received so much cannot be satisfied
with having been the recipients of the gift. Ours is
an obligation to see that future generations also have
this. It is descriptive of alumni of the past and it is
descriptive of those who have served Washington and
Lee that in the words of Cicero “They care more for
the long age which is to come than for their own small
share of time.” If there is one resolve that might
come out of our fellowship and our association, in ad-
dition to the expression of our word of gratitude for
what we have received, it is the resolve that those who
come after will also enjoy the kind of blessing which
has been ours.

oH

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

‘Total Attendance

Was Disappointing,

But For Those Who
Were There, the Big
Reunion Proved To Be

A Memorable Event

1964 General Reunion—the
fourth such big affair held since the
practice was started in 1949—was
not much of a success. Aside from
the several dozen local alumni who
took part, there were just some 175
other former students on hand for
the three-day program June 11-13.

But in terms of the good time
that was enjoyed by those who did
come, the reunion was every bit a
success that its planning committee
had intended.

The bulk of the alumni attend-
ing represented the four anniver-
sary classes—1914, 1924, 1939, and
1954—but there were enough of

SUMMER 1964

 

The long arm of Bow Sprssarp, ’39, embraces HARRY PHILPOTT, 38, while Haroip E.,
Harvey, °39, looks on.

The 1964 General Reunion: A Good
Weekend for a Modest Attendance

I TERMS of total attendance, the

representatives of other eras to pro-
vide a broad sweep of alumni rep-
resentation over more than half a
century.

The 1914 reunion was unusually
well-attended, with 30 of 61 living
members present under the organi-
zational leadership of Roger J.
Bear.

The “senior” alumnus present
was Dr. Samuel B. McPheeters, of
Goldsboro, N. C., a member of the
Class of 1900. He and his wife set
a lively pace that many of the
younger men couldn’t hold.

In addition to the Class banquets
for the anniversary classes, there
were general receptions in Evans

Hall and at the President’s House,
and there was a luncheon in Evans
Hall where the reunion heard from
President Cole.

Said President Cole:

“We have been privileged to be a
part of the spirit, the enduring
glory of Washington and Lee. The
long line of great men who have
served this University are respon-
sible for is glorious past and _ its
clear vision of its future role.”

The highlight of the reunion for
many was the convocation address
by Dr. Harry Philpott, °38, vice-
president of the University of
Florida, carried in full elsewhere in
this issue,

ho
—J

 

  
  

   

L-r, W. H. Hatsirp, IV, ’46, WALTER B. MEACHAM, 14,
Co. PAuL J. B. Murpuy, ‘14, and Mrs. MurpHy.

 

DEAN C. E. WILLIAMS, ’12, with JAMES SOMERVILLE, ‘12,
and BERKLEY Cox, 714.

 

The Class of 1914 at its 50th Anniversary Reu
EcBert B. Doccretr, H. M. Hayne, BEN D.
FLowers, J. W. SELIG, CARLISLE H. Morrissetr
and J. CARLTON Hupson; standing, l-r, ALEX
MINTER, J. E. WAYLAND, WALTER B. MEACHAM
SAMUEL H. WILLIAMS, BERKELEY Cox, STEPHED

Fred M. Davis, ARTHUR W. McCat

 

Classmates from 1934 are, l-r, Everett TucKER, Jr., Gov. W. W. Barron, RucE P.
DEVAN, and JOHN H. THOMAS.

 

FRANK SHIPMAN, ’54, and ‘TOM KENNEY, ’54

 

 

 

The Class of 1924 poses for a reunion photo: seated, l-r, WILLIAM W. HEISKELL, Dorr M.
‘TUCKER, JOHN G. GUERRANT, W. CLIFFORD SMITH, and W. CLYDE DENNIs; standing, l-r, REED

GRAVES, CHARLES A. TUTWILER, MATTHEW P. MATHENEY, D. NEwtToNn FARNELL, LINN M. Dr. EDGAR SHANNON, ‘39,
BRANNON, and FRANK C. SWITZER. and JAMES SALTSMAN, ’39
28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

    
  

 

J. GOODLOE JACKSON, 14, left, with classmate W. L.
HARRELL, ‘14.

 

Mr. and Mrs. FRED EASTER, ’55, with Dr. and Mrs.
E. C. GRIFFITH.

 

nion. Seated, l-r, PAUL J. B. Murpuy,
SMITH, CHARLES P. REYNOLDs, J. D.
, JUNIUS L. POWELL, Joun L. HucuHes,
M. Hrrz, JAMEs M. Farrar, W. M.
, J. GOODLOE JACKSON, ROGER J. BEAR,
| F. CHADWICK, DANIEL C. BUCHANAN,
N, and 'T. A. MCCORKLE.

 

 

The class of 1954's roth Reunion group: front, l-r, SeoGE Moss, Pere DoyLe, Tom KENNEY, GEORGE
YOUNG, FRANK PARSONS, FLETCHER LOWE, KIMBER WHITE, and Jim Brice; seated, l-r, BILL CLEM,
Britt MCHEnry, STEVE SNOw, CHARLIE THOMAS, NorM Dopsyns, Jim ANDREWS, BILL BRANSCOM,
oo GORDON LEGGETT, BoB Cross, and EnRicK HAIGHT; standing, l-r, RALPH PARK, BoB ANDREWS, GIL
PRESIDENT COLE accepts the 1939 Class Gift BoceTt1, DEAN Guy, Bos Coo.Lipcr, HANK MurFEY, BILL WILLIAMS, RENO Harp, EARNEST EANES,

  

from JOHN D. GoopIn. EvANS DUNN, KEN VANCoTT, LARRY MuscRoveE, and DirK VOELKER.
Visiting the new science facilities were, l-r, Joun J. Davis, JR., °39; R. BLEAKLEY JAMES, ’22; WILLIAM J. Cox, ’17,
MELVILLE B. PAYNE, ’20; B. L. ‘THOMPSON, ’18; and ARTHUR W. McCain, "14. and WILLIAM B. WIsDOM, ’21

 

SUMMER 1964 29

 

 

Dr. KENNETH P. STEVENS

Dr. HENRY S. ROBERTS

Dr. Stevens Retires

As Biology Professor

R. KENNETH P. STEVENS retired
D this June as head of the De-
partment of Biology after eighteen
years on the Washington and Lee
faculty.

He will continue to teach a sec-
ond semester advanced course in
biology, but the direction of the
department has been turnd over
to his successor, Dr. Henry S.
Roberts.

Dr. Stevens is best known to the
many Washington and Lee men
who undertook pre-medical studies
under his guidance and counsel. He
joined the faculty in 1946, at a
time when many veterans were
among Washington and Lee’s stu-
dent body. Reflecting on the eight-
een years he has been at the Uni-
versity, Dr. Stevens noted that the
students of 1946 were not as well
prepared academically as_ today’s
students, but he said that they had
a greater seriousness of purpose.

Dr. Stevens has worked actively
with many phases of University life.

30

Committee work has involved him
with fraternities, musical and dra-
matic organizations, lectures, erad-
uate fellowships, and the courses
and degrees program of the Univer-
sity.

When senior Art Broadus was
selected as the Gilliam Award win-
ner this year, he designated that
the cash stipend be used to pur-
chase books for the Biology Library
in honor of Dr. Stevens.

A native of Danbury, Conn., Dr.
Stevens received both A.B. and
M.A. degrees from Wesleyan Uni-
versity, and earned his Ph.D. degree
at Princeton.

Before coming to Washington
and Lee, he taught at New York
Military Academy, Princeton, and
Central College. He is a member
of Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Chi,
and Alpha Epsilon Delta, honor-
ary pre-medical fraternity which he
has served as a national vice-presi-
dent.

 

 

g@ A NEW HEAD of the Department of
Biology was announced in May by
Dean of the College William W.
Pusey, III, along with the names of
ten other men who will join the
University faculty in September.

Dr. Henry S. Roberts, 51, now
associate professor of zoology and
acting director of graduate study in
zoology at Duke University, will be-
come professor of biology, succeed-
ing Dr. Kenneth P. Stevens as head
of Washington and Lee’s biology
program. Dr. Stevens retired in
June after eighteen years on the
University faculty.

Also named by Dean Pusey were
two new assistant professors and
eight new instructors, including
one who will hold the title of
“artist in residence.”

Appointments as assistant profes-
sors include Sterling M. Boyd, 30,
in fine arts, and George W. Ray, 32,
in English.

Appointed instructor in fine
arts was Ray Prohaska, 63, noted
New York painter and illustrator
who will become “artist in resi-
dence” at Washington and Lee
next year.

Other new instructors for 1964-
65 include:

John M. Evans, 28, English; John
P. Freeman, 27, chemistry; William
E. Hannum, 24, English; Irving M.
Lynn, Jr., 24, German; Larry A.
Schmucker, 30, philosophy; Sydney
J. Willams, Jr., 26, Romance
languages; and Anthony Wood, 25,
history.

Dean Pusey said the new faculty
members include replacements for
professors on leave as well as new
additions to the University’s teach-
ing staff.

Wood, who is working toward a
Ph.D. degree at Duke, and Wil-
liams, engaged in similar graduate
study at the University of North
Carolina, are replacements for Dr.
Leon F. Sensabaugh, professor of

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

history, and Dr. C. Westbrook Bar-
ritt, professor of Romance lan-
guages. Dr. Sensabaugh and Dr.
Barritt will engage in post-doctor-
al research and study at Duke and
North Carolina next year under a
special cooperative fellowship pro-
gram sponsored by the Ford Foun-
dation. Freeman will replace Dr.
George S. Whitney, assistant profes-
sor of chemistry, who will spend
next year in Switzerland engaged in
research.

a TWO WASHINGTON AND LEE profes-
sors have been named fellows in a
Cooperative Program in the Hu-
manities sponsored jointly by Duke
University and the University of
North Carolina.

Dr. C. Westbrook Barritt, profes-
sor of romance languages, and Dr.
Leon F. Sensabaugh, professor of
history, will participate in the pro-
eram during the 1964-65 academic
year.

Made possible by a five year
grant from the Humanities and
Arts Program of the Ford Founda-
tion to Duke University and the
University of North Carolina, the
program will allow Dr. Barritt and
Dr. Sensabaugh to do research in
their fields of interest at either in-
stitution.

‘The program, operating for the
first time this fall, is planned to
give distinguished faculty members
in the humanities a year to study
and do research in their particular
fields of interest.

‘Two advanced graduate students
from Duke or North Carolina will
be appointed to the Washington
and Lee faculty for the academic
year as replacements for Dr. Barritt
and Dr. Sensabaugh.

® ROBERT STEWART, professor of
Fine Arts, has been selected for
membership in the American Com-
posers Alliance.

Professor Stewart, whose compo-
sitions have been played for New
York audiences four times during

SUMMER 1964

the past academic year, becomes
one of only 130 professional com-
posers of concert music who hold
membership in the ACA. Purposes
of the organization include the pro-
tection of the rights of member
composers and the promotion of
the use and understanding of their
music.

Professor Stewart’s current com-
positions are “serial music,’’ con-
sisting of variations and departures
from the twelve-tone technique
which was first introduced and de-
veloped by Arnold Schoenberg.

Professor Stewart joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in
1954. In addition to his teaching
duties, he also directs the Univer-
sity’s 60-voice Glee Club and its
John Graham Brass Choir. He is
an accomplished violinist and a
graduate of the American Conser-
vatory of Music in Chicago.

PROMOTIONS for twelve members
of the Washington and Lee faculty
were announced in June by the
University’s academic deans.

Dean William W. Pusey, III, an-
nounced eight promotions within
the College, Dean Lewis W. Ad-
ams of the School of Commerce and
Administration reported three pro-
motions, and Dean Charles P.
Light Jr., of the School of Law an-
nounced one. ‘The new ranks, ap-
proved by the Board of ‘Trustees
at its regular June meeting, become
effective September 1.

Raised from associate professor
to professor were Robert E. R.
Huntley, law; Robert Stewart, mu-
sic and fine arts; and Dr. Charles
W. Williams, mathematics.

Dr. Thomas E. Ennis, Jr., ac-
counting, and Dr. Louis W.
Hodges, religion, were promoted
from assistant professor to associate
professor.

Instructors promoted to assist-
ant professorships include: James
Boatwright, III, English; Charles
B. Brockmann, romance languages;
David B. Dickens, German; Brett

 

W. Hawkins, political science; Dr.
Delos D. Hughes, political science;
Dr. W. Barlow Newbolt, physics;
and Dana W. Swan, II, physical ed-
ucation.

Three of those promoted are re-
cent recipients of the Ph.D. de-
gree—Dr. Ennis from the Univer-
sity of Michigan, Dr. Hughes from
the University of North Carolina,
and Dr. Newbolt from Vanderbilt
University. Mr. Hawkins is sched-
uled to receive his Ph.D. degree
from Vanderbilt University August
29:

@ DR. JOHN H. WISE, professor of
chemistry, discussed chemical bond-
ing for thirty-two advanced sec-
ondary school students participat-
ing in the National Science Foun-
dation Summer Science Training
Program in June at Bridgewater
College.

Dr. Wise used models construct-
ed by Washington and Lee students
in the University’s Robert E. Lee
Undergraduate Research Program
to illustrate his talk.

C. HAROLD LAUCK, superintendent
of the Journalism Laboratory Press
at Washington and Lee, was the
recipient of outstanding praise and
honor on two occasions this sum-
mer—once for professional achieve-
ment and again for civic contribu-
tions.

‘The International Graphics Arts
Education Association presented
Mr. Lauck with a certificate of ap-
preciation for his contributions to
the professional association. ‘The
inscription said, in part:

“Recognizing the multitude of
details, the pressing problems of
production, the long hours of de-
voted effort that are embodied in
the book, The Story of Graphic
Arts Education — 1826-1960, the
Board of Directors of the Inter-
national Graphic Arts Education
Association ... unanimously extend
to their long-time member and
friend, C. Harold Lauck, their

31

 

heartfelt thanks and sincere con-
gratulations on the typographic ex-
cellence of this major project
which he designed and printed for
the edification and enjoyment of
the Association’s entire member-
ship, a production which ably
crowns his twenty-eight years of
continuous membership in this or-
ganization during which time he
has filled every position of leader-
ship and has graciously performed
innumerable acts of service for the
development, growth, and continu-
ing progress of graphic arts educa-
tion.”

The Lexington Lions Club hon-
ored Mr. Lauck by naming him
“Lion of the Year” for 1963-1964.
A charter member of the club, Mr.
Lauck is a past president of the
group and for the past 4 years he
has served as its secretary, a post
he has filled with such distinction

that he has won statewide and na-
tional recognition in the Lions In-
ternational organization.

 

mB SENIOR ARTHUR E. BROADUS, from
Knoxville, ‘Tenn., was the recipient
of the second annual student ser-
vice award named for the univer-
sity former Dean of Admissions
and Dean of Students, Frank J.
Gilliam.

Broadus received the award at
Washington and Lee’s annual sen-
ior banquet held by the Alumni
Association for the 264 degree can-
diates.

Broadus was recognized for out-
standing service to the school and
specifically for. his work as_presi-
dent of the Interfraternity Coun-
cil during the past year. During his
term of office, Rush Week proce-
dures were revised and a Judicial
Board created to make the IFC self-
governing in matters of fraternity
conduct.

He also served as president of
his own social fraternity, Kappa

32

 

ArT Broapus accepts the Gilliam Award
at the Alumni Senior Banquet.

Alpha; was a member of the Dance
Board and the Liberty Hall (liter-
ary) Society; and was a Dean’s List
and Honor Roll student as a pre-
med major.

Established in February, 1963,
the Gilliam Award includes a per-
manent plaque in the University’s
Student Union building for win-
ners’ names. ‘The award is financed
by the Student Body Fund which
is supported by the University’s stu-
dent activities fees.

The award carries a $100 stipend
plus the privilege of designating
another $150 for use by an organi-
zation or academic department of
the University. Broadus designated
that the $150 be used to purchase
books for the biology department
library in honor of Dr. Kenneth
P. Stevens, who retired in June.

mw THE QUALITY of undergraduate
scientific research at Washington
and Lee was underscored when
thirteen students read papers be-
fore the annual meeting of the Vir-
ginia Academy of Science in May.

More undergraduates from Wash-
ington and Lee than from any
other Virginia institution reported
the findings of their research to the
academy. Generally only graduate
students, professors and profession-
al researchers report to sessions of
the academy.

Research for the papers read by
Washington and Lee undergradu-
ates was done under grants from
the National Science Foundation
and the university's own Robert
FE. Lee Research Program which
was established in 1960 to encour-
age well qualified students to be-
come familiar with research tools,
techniques and methods.

Students who helped prepare
papers read to the astronomy,
mathematics, and physics section
of the Academy were James S. Lege,
Jr.. junior from Webster Groves,
Mo.; Alonzo Atkins, Jr... senior
irom Gadsden, Ala.; and Robert
A. Paddock, senior from Redding,
Conn. Directing their research was
Dr. ‘Thomas Ratchford, assistant
professor of physics.

The chemistry section heard pa-
pers by G. Ashley Allen, junior
from Chester, S.C.; Thomas W.
Fauntleroy, Jr., sophomore from
Coraopolis, Pa.; Cary J. Hansel,
freshman from Falls Church, Va.;
Kenneth G. Everett, senior from
Bastrop, La.; Robert L. Cafferata,
senior from Forest Hills, N. Y.; F.
Scott Kennedy, sophomore from
Shreveport, La.; and David L. My-
ers, Junior from Roanoke. Profes-
sors directing their research were
Dr. John H. Wise, Dr. W. J. Watt,
Dr. James K. Shillington, Dr. E. S.
Gilreath and Dr. George S. Whit-
ney.

Students reading papers to the
psychology section of the academy
were Robert E. Lee, ITI, junior
from Glendale, Calif.; Rodney L.
Stump, senior from Pulaski, Va.;
and Kenneth A. Marion, junior
from Blountville, Tenn. Profes-
sors directing their research were
Dr. William M. Hinton and Dr. L.
FE. Jarrard.

& WASHINGTON AND LEE’S fraternity
rush system this fall will reflect
what many students consider a ma-
jor revamping.

By action of the Interfraternity

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

Council, 1964 freshmen will be
asked to designate fraternities they
wish to see at “open house” during
the first two days of rush. This will
replace the traditional ‘rush’ into
the dormitories to persuade fresh-
men to visit fraternity houses.

After the first two days, a sub-
dued form of the old rushing for-
mat will be followed. The fraterni-
ties will rush in dormitories but
only four members of each frater-
nity will be allowed in the fresh-
man quardrangle. Freshmen will
then sign up to visit fraternities at
formal rush dates.

During the first two days of rush-
ing, there will be six open houses
each night, from 7 to 11, lasting
for forty minutes each. During
these first two days, no rushee will
be allowed to see any house more
than once, and he must see a mini-
mum of ten houses. ‘There may be
no more than thirty rushees present
at a chapter during any open house.
Each fraternity will be given a list
of the freshmen who will be present
in advance of its open house.

Rush Week will begin on Thurs-
day, September 10, and end on
Wednesday, September 16, the day
classes begin.

Fraternities are expected to de-
vote considerable summer work to
contacting prospective rushees_ to
insure that they sign up for a cer-
tain house during the “open rush”
dates.

General rush rules concerning
fraternity etiquette, contact with
freshmen, etc., remain the same.
‘The freshman rushing fee has been
raised from $3.00 to $5.00 and there
is a $7.50 fee for late payment.

A new Interfraternity Council
constitution was approved by the
Faculty Committee on Fraternities
and ratified by the IFC itself last
February. he new constitution
gave increased disciplinary power to
the IFC, but made no changes in
Rush Week. Changes in the rushing
system were passed by the IFC in
April.

SUMMER 1964

 

New Rush Week regulations could put an end to this familiar scene of annual mayhem
and bloodshed.

 

& WASHINGTON AND LEE’S School of
Law conducted an eight-week sum-
mer session with go students en-
rolled.

A summer curriculum of four

courses was available to students in
two four-week terms, beginning
June 22. Participating professors
included Dr. Wilfred J. Ritz, Pro-
fessor Charles R. McDowell, Pro-
fessor J. William Stewart, and
Professor Robert E. R. Huntley,
all of the school’s regular faculty.

‘The Law School session is the
only summer work offered at Wash-
ington and Lee.

 

w A GRANT Of $5,000 to Washington
and Lee by the Merck Company
Foundation of Rahway, N. J., was
announced in June by President
Fret: C., Gole.

President Cole said the Founda-
tion made its grant in support of
the University’s Robert E. Lee Re-
search Program for Undergradu-
ates, now in its fourth year.

The grant will help support

faculty and student research pro-
jects which bring professors and
students together in research rela-
tionships seldom encountered at
the undergraduate level.

Referring to the program’s broad
application in the humanities and
social sciences, as well as the sci-
ences, a foundation official wrote
President Cole: “This is indeed an
interesting departure in an era
when the primary emphasis in re-
search seems to be in fields of sci-
ences’

In acknowledging the grant,
President -Cole. wrote’ ‘to-: Merck
Company Foundation officials: “I
am particularly gratified also to
know that you and your associates
are concerned, as we are, with the
attempt to bring appropriate bal-
ance into research programs in the
colleges and universities. Your sup-
port will allow us to bring an even
better emphasis in all disciplines
here than we have been able to ac-
complish. before.”

President Cole said the grant
“comes at a very timely moment
when we are making plans for some
of our students to carry on re-
search and study projects with their
professors in the course of the sum-

39

mer.

53

 

Athletes attack barbecued chicken at the annual awards outing at Coach McLaughlin’s
summer camp.

Football Generals Face Slim
Prospects For 1964 Season

HEN Washington and _ Lee’s

ve unusually optimistic Coach

Lee McLaughlin takes a rather dim

view of the prospects for the com-

ing season, chances are that the

Generals are in for a struggle in
1964.

Despite the return of some
twenty-nine lettermen, McLaughlin
says the Generals will be plagued
with a lack of experience in many
key positions. He points to the loss
of the entire starting offensive unit
from last year’s team which won
five, lost three.

“We can’t expect to do as well
this year in the won-lost column,”
the Washington and Lee coach
sums up, “but I hope we're going
to be able to play some interesting
ball just the same.”

McLaughlin says he expects
the Generals to pass more in 1964,
relying on the aerial attack as an
integral part of the overall offense.
In recent years, Washington and
Lee has tended to run to the pass
only for the long gainer or scoring
thrust.

“We hope to keep the opponents’
defenses a little more honest than

34

 

we have been doing,” he points out.

Among the top returning players
are Co-captains Bill David and
‘Tom Crenshaw, both senior right
half-backs. David is a pass-catching
and defensive specialist who may
see most action as a split-end, while
Crenshaw is a powerful runner.
Both figure heavily in McLaugh-
lin’s hopes for a rebuilt General at-
tack.

In other sports news, top athletic
awards were handed out to Wash-
ington and Lee students at the an-
nual Sports Barbecue held at the
summer camp of Coach McLaugh-
lin.

Brice Gamber, a senior from
Baltimore, received the ‘Wink’
Glasgow ‘Trophy as the student
displaying the qualities of Wash-
ington and Lee spirit best. Gam-
ber played both football and base-
ball.

John McDaniel, outstanding
quarterback in football and lacrosse
midfielder, was selected as the Uni-
versity’s outstanding varsity athlete.
McDaniel was chosen to play in the
annual national lacrosse All-Star
game this year.

Fall Sports

VARSITY FOOTBALL

Sept. 26—Randolph-Macon ....Away

Oct. 3—Oberlin oo... Away
Oct. 10—Centre oe. Away
Oct. 17—Susquehanna ........ Home
Oct. 24—Hampden-Sydney Home
Oct. 31—Bridgewater ............ Home
Nov. 7—Sewanee ........ Home
Nov. 14—Southwestern .......... Away

Nov. 21—Washington U.

FRESHMAN FOOTBALL

Oct. 3—Woodberry Forest..Home
Oct. g—Bridgewater ].V.....Home
Oct. 16—Greenbrier Mil....... Away
Oct. 23—Staunton Mil........... Away
Oct. 30—Fork Union Mil. Home
Nov. 14—Randolph-Macon Aca...

pepeseesuatsccseeusessissiseesesdenerseseisarss Home
SOCCER

Sept. 25—Pfeiffer wo, Home
Sept. 29—Lynchburg ............. Home
Oct. 2—Randolph-Macon ..Away
Oct. 8—Guilford ....0. Home
Oct. 16—V. P. Lo. Home
Oct. 23—King oo... eee Away
Oct. 31—American Univ. ....Home
Nov. 6—Roanoke ............0.. Away
Nov. 10—Virginia 0... Home
Nov. 13-14—State ‘Tournament...

eitueadsseseuectessesevueeccssvucrsats Lynchburg

CROSS-COUNTRY

Sept. 26—Roanoke ............... Away
Oct. 3—Lynchburg. ............ Home
Oct g—Bridgewater .............. Away
Oct. 17—Old Dominion. ...... Home
Oct. 23—Catholic Univ. ........ Away
Oct 31—American Univ....... Home
Nov. 6—State Meet.......00.0.. Salem
Nov. 14—Fairmont ........0005 Home
Nov. 21—High Point............. Home

Nov. 28—NCAA.......... Wheaton, Ill.
Dec. 5—Buena Vista-Lexington
Weesesssteyess Road Race—Buena Vista

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Report of the Annual Meeting

 

Alumni Hear First Report of Plan
To Establish an Alumni House

NNOUNCEMENT OF PLANS for a

Washington and Lee alumni
house and a plea for loyalty to the
University from its former Rector
were highlights of the annual gen-
cral meeting of the Alumni Asso-
clation.

Held Saturday, June 13, in Lee
Chapel as one of the closing events
of the fourth General Alumni Re-
union, the association meeting was
attended by some one hundred
former students, as well as current
officers and members of the Alum-
ni Board of ‘Trustees.

In addition to the annual report
by Executive Secretary William C.
Washburn (see page 41), alumni
heard remarks by outgoing Asso-
ciation President Dr. John D. Bat-
tle, °34; the report of treasurer Wil-
lam B. Wisdom, ’21, of another
banner Alumni Fund year (see
page 38); and a report from the
nominating committee on new
members for the Alumni Board and
the University athletic committee.

Alton B. Sartor, ’38, of Shreve-
port, La., was introduced as the
new association president, along
with Vice-President E. Stewart Ep-
ley, ’49, of New York City and
‘Treasurer E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr.,
33, of Camden, N. J.

Ki Williams, ’15, of Waynesboro,
Va., spoke from the floor, remind-
ing fellow alumni of “social and
political changes” taking place in
the nation that may affect the fu-
ture of Washington and Lee.

It was in response to Mr. Wil-

SUMMER 1964

 

T. B. BRYANT, ’28, left, new President E. ALTON SARTOR, ]R., ’98, and E. Stewart EPLEY
3 a 3
"49, discuss plans for the new alumni center.

liams’ remarks that James R. Cas-
kie, ’o6, of Lynchburg, former
Rector and current member of the
University Board of Trustees, called
on alumni for renewed devotion to
their University.

Both Mr. Williams and Mr. Cas-
kie, who spoke near the close of the
hour-long meeting, drew long ap-
plause from the alumni present.

Biggest news of the meeting in-
volved the first steps to provide
Washington and Lee alumni with
a headquarters house to serve as
the association’s offices and_ its
alumni activities center. President
Battle announced the plans in his
informal summary of his year in
office.

President Battle said the Univer-
sity had offered to the Association
the former home of the late Dr.
Fitzgerald Flournoy, ’21, who died

in January. The home, a_ large
brick structure, is located on the
extreme north side of the Wash-
ington and Lee campus, adjoining
property of Virginia Military In-
stitute on Letcher Avenue.

Battle said a special committee
of the Alumni Board had met in
Lexington in April to consider the
proposal, visited the property and
evaluated the various uses the as-
sociation might make of the build-
ing. He said a new committee, ap-
pointed by President Sartor, would
continue to work on the alumni
house project in close harmony
with members of the University
administration. ‘Che committee will
help determine what functions the
house will serve, the needs it will
meet, and what alterations and re-
modeling will be necessary to adapt
the home for these purposes. It al-

35

so will determine costs and explore
ways the project can be financed, he
said.

President Battle assured the
meeting that members of the Alum-
ni Board were convinced that finan-
cial arrangements should be made
without compromising in any ma-
jor way the annual support of the
University by alumni through the
annual Fund. He promised a full
report to alumni on subsequent
developments in alumni house
planning through future issues of
the Alumni Magazine.

Also in his remarks, President
Battle paid special tribute to the
service to the association by Vice-
President IT. B. Bryant, ’28L, of
Orangeburg, S.C., and ‘Treasurer
Wisdom, ‘21, of New Orleans, both
of whom join Battle in completing
four-year terms on the Alumni
Board.

President Battle read to the
meeting a special resolution pre-
pared by Mr. Wisdom concerning
the death in December of the late

Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines. ‘The
resolution was adopted unanimous-
ly.

In the absence of Nominating
Committee Chairman Barton W.
Morris, ’43, of Roanoke, Dr. Wil-
liam M. Hinton, ’29, of the Uni-
versity faculty, offered the report
of the group. Nominated and sub-
sequently unanimously elected to
four-year terms on the Board were
Francis W. Plowman, 721, of
Swarthmore, Pa.; ‘Thomas C. Frost,
Jr., 50, of San Antonio, ‘Texas; and
James W. Priest, °43, of Dayton,
Ohio. Nominated and elected with-
out opposition to a two-year term
on the University committee on in-
tercollegiate athletics was Norman
L. Dobyns, °54, of Springfield, Va.
(See Page 4o for additional infor-
mation about the new alumni ofh-

cials.)

Mr. Williams urged all alumni
and officers of the association to
keep informed of “social change”
in the nation and to make their
feelings known in a proper manner

 

to the University’s authorities. He
said he felt these problems were a
“family” affair that should be of
concern to all members of the
Washington and Lee family.

In remarks given with great feel-
ing, Mr. Caskie told the audience
that, as a member of the Univer-
sity’s Board, he felt he knew the
sentiments of many alumni. He re-
ferred to General Lee after Ap-
pomattox and how Lee had called
on his soldiers and fellow country-
men to give their loyalty to the re-
stored Union. Mr. Caskie appealed
to alumni to bestow on Washing-
ton and Lee the kind of loyalty Lee
demonstrated himself.

He assured his listeners that the
‘Trustees, in his opinion, were de-
voted to Washington and Lee and
would make no decisions except
those dictated by the best interests
of the University.

“With God’s help to direct and
lead us, Washington and Lee will
continue to be an outstanding in-
fluence on our nation,” he said.

“Kr WILLLIAMS, ‘715, left,
stresses his point with former
Rector JAMES CASKIE, ’06, fol-
lowing the annual meeting
in Lee Chapel where both
addressed assembled
alumni.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
OPERATING STATEMENT
For the Year ended June 30, 1964
INCOME:
1963-64 Alumni Fund—total gifts and pledges.......0... cc ceeceeeeeeeeteeneeneens $165,272.42
Add:
Uncollected pledges at June 30, 1963, on 1962-63 Alumni Fund.... 9,764.59
175,037.01
Less:
Uncollected pledges at June 30, 1964...........::cceeeeeee $ 19,555-11
Pledges written off, 1962-63 Fund.............ccccceeeeeeee 1,082.50 20,637.61
+Otal Income Collected. 76 7 ei el ds $154,399.40
OPERATING EXPENSES:
epee aes i Pe i vncsvien cl $ 24,119.45
DN oi ete iri av se ee 334.53
PUG OR CISC ii a ag. he apa bigpe Peee a, bia ieee a eee 6,332.07
iced aene le 11,730.90
Oe isi cd ee 4,213.26
ieee 793.00
ONO i ele i 1,804.07
RRR eR eves aie aa ee. 2572.42
RT oe ia een ate ees ee ea ce 1,098.46
Boies secs oyeee le ss eee eset 1,880.77
POON A CC eae ted Hegel rei a 631.98
ene is 853.69
MOAR CO a SL ea 1,256.64
PEO ACE AU a re oceohea eens tens cdecees Cheaerescevsicooekr ee, 57,621.24
Excess of Collected Income over Operating Expenses..........0....c0 $ 96,778.16
DESIGNATED INCOME TRANSFERRED TO
UNIVERSITY TREASURER:
Encdownment— 1990 Glass. Fund.-)) 2. el ele leis > 4,158.57
PQCOWMCIISHOTDEE yl arias ihe (ee 30,151.81
Aaron Duane Funds. ose i an 2,141.18
Journalism Buiding Fund sion hi ase yin ki ue 2,355.00
Umiversity departmental uses 3.000) goss cess cade LR atin eca de naa 5299.90
Non-endowed scholarships and special funds............c cece 1,289.78
TPotat Desionated Income Franslerred..0 cede a OE ae 45,396.24
Excess of Collected Undesignated Income over Expenditures.... $ 51,381.92
REVOLVING FUND BALANCE, June 30, 1964 (Cash advanced by
Ripvetsity. FP reasuren).i...,..ut a iis ook iae S Se $ 800.00
NOTE: .
All items of income and expenditure in this statement, except uncollected pledges, were
taken into the accounts of the Treasurer.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUMMER 1964

 

 

The Alumni Fund
Goes Over the Top!

Alumni Fund Council Chairman Kime
Reports That the Goal of $165,000
Was Reached, Despite a Sight Drop
In the Number of Contributors in 1964

T Is A pleasure for me, on behalf
I of the Alumni Fund Council,
to announce the completion of a
successful and record-breaking AI-
umni Fund Campaign for 1963-
1964.

Nearly a year ago, the Alumni
Fund Council established the rath-
er ambitious goal of $165,000 for
the 1963-1964 drive. Frankly, some
of us had reservations about in-
creasing the goal by $25,000 over
the previous year’s successful ach-
levement. But we felt that the re-
sponsibilities of our membership
on the council dictated that we set
our sights high and that we work
toward this goal with enthusiasm
and diligent effort.

When the books were closed on
June 30, contributions to the Al-
umni Fund for the year totaled
$165,272.42. Never before in the
history of our University had _ al-
umni so generously supported the

38

By Ropert E. Kime, ’51

Chairman,
The Alumni Fund Council

annual fund. Every alumnus, even
those who, for one reason or an-
other, were not among the contrib-
utors this year, can take great
pride in this measure of financial
encouragement which we, the Uni-
versity’s former students, have been
able to offer to our Alma Mater.
When we consider the remark-
able growth of the Alumni Fund
over the past decade, the results of
the past year take on even greater
significance. In 1954-1955, contri-
butions totaled $62,508.27, and
even this reflected a dramatic in-
crease over previous years. In 1957-
1958, the last full year before the
University—with alumni _leader-
ship—undertook the University
Development Program, the Fund
had grown to $113,681.79. Upon
completion of the development
campaign, the Fund was resumed
on a modest but annually growing
scale. ‘Today we can look back on

a growth of over $100,000 above the
1955 level of support.

Who or what is responsible for
this progress? In a word—you.
Whatever may be the contribution
of the Alumni Fund Council mem-
bership, it is littke compared to the
outstanding support which you
have seen fit to give. Special ac-
claim and recognition must go,
certainly, to the hundreds of class
and regional agents who have la-
bored so well and so faithfully to
enlist the help and inspire the in-
terest of thousands of others. I
know my associates on the council
appreciate their efforts more than
words can express, and I know that
everyone who shares our interest
in Washington and Lee joins us in
our heartfelt gratitude.

While there is reason for satis-
faction in the results of the 1963-
64 Fund drive, there is a sober-
ing statistic that causes us concern

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

and will be a matter of important
concern to the next Alumni Fund
Council. I refer, of course, to the
number of contributors who _par-
ticipated in the recent campaign.

Fewer alumni gave to the 1963-
1964 Fund than the previous year’s
fund drive: only 3,735 this year
as compared with 3,905 last year.
It is most apparent that those who
did give gave generously indeed
for the Fund to achieve such a lofty
new level.

The sobering aspect of these fig-
ures concerns the number who did
not respond to our appeal for sup-
port. Of the 10,924 alumni who
were contacted, 7,189 persons chose
not to participate, or neglected, or

 

forgot the opportunity to assist the
University in an important way.

When the drive began last au-
tumn, you will recall that we re-
flected on some of the reasons why
alumni do support the Alumni
Fund. ‘Today, I’m inclined to think
about some of the reasons why such
a large number have not given.

(It should be pointed out that
the participation totals for Wash-
ington and Lee, when compared
with most colleges and universities,
are very good. Not the best, but
very good. But because so many of
us think of what happened to us
at Washington and Lee as some-
thing special in our lives, we also

SUMMER 1964

like to think that Washington and
Lee alumni are capable of reacting
to the needs of their growing Uni-
versity in a special way.)

Perhaps some who do not give
feel that their gift must, of neces-
sity, be small, and hence, not real-
ly important. Nothing could be
less true. What is important is that
the alumnus has cared enough to
give something.

Perhaps some feel that Wash-
ington and Lee is doing all right
without their help, that whatever
their gift might be, it won’t be real-
ly useful. Again, this is not true.
No college or university—not even
giants like Harvard or the Univer-
sity of California—has — sufficient

funds to achieve as much signifi-
cant progress in higher education
as its trustees, administration, fac-
ulty, and alumni hope for. Wash-
ington and Lee can put to vital
use every penny for additional fi-
nancial aid for’ students, for
strengthening the faculty, for im-
proving the instructional facilities.
Your gift 7s needed.

Perhaps some believe that high-
er education as a whole can take
care of itself, drawing substantial
support from the giant foundations
and from the government. I hope
any who feel this way might consid-
er the role of the privately-sup-
ported institutions, the traditional

 

balance they have given to our
system of diversified higher educa-
tion, and to the traditional sources
of their strength. Their strength
has come and _ still comes from
those who know these schools most
intimately, men who have known
first hand the value of the educa-
tional opportunity which these
schools can give. If these men lose
faith in their Alma Maters, or show
apparent loss of faith through in-
difference or neglect, then the fu-
ture of the privately-supported col-
lege will be in grave danger.
Soon, we shall face the renewed
challenge of a new Alumni Fund.
Those of us who accept the respon-
sibility of membership on the AI-

“If these men lose faith

in their Alma Maters, or show
an apparent loss of faith
through indifference or neglect,
then the future of the privately-
supported college will be in

grave danger.”

—Chairman Rosert E. Kime, ’51

umni Fund Council can look ahead
with confidence. We can draw in-
spiration from the past year, from
the past decade, and from 216 years
of our University’s history. The
challenge and opportunity for con-
tinued growth are undiminished.
We need only to find the words and
action that will bring others to rec-
ognize the opportunity and neces-
sity for building an ever-stronger
Washington and Lee University.

Again, I want to thank every-
one—I wish I could do it personal-
ly—who helped make this past year
one of the most personally satisfy-
ing efforts I have ever made on
behalf of our University.

39

Four New Faces Added to the Leadership
Of Your Alumni Association’s Progress

 

outs
OR Oe Shean

FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN, ’24

Dr. J. W. PRIEST, '43

 

‘THOMAS C. FROST, JR., ’50

NORMAN L. DoBYNs, ’54

40

 

 

Francis W. Plowman, ’24, is a resident of
Swarthmore, Pennsylvania, and is vice-president
of Scott Paper Company with offices in Philadel-
phia. Joining Scott Paper in 1928, Mr. Plowman
has been a director and its general sales manager
since 1943. He is well known throughout the
paper industry. Mr. Plowman is a very active
member of the Philadelphia alumni chapter and
served as area chirman for the University Devel-
opment Program. He and Mrs. Plowman have
two daughters and one son.

Dr. James W. Priest, 43, of Dayton, Ohio.
Following WW II Priest was an accounting ma-
chine representative for IBM. He returned to the
Medical College of Ohio State University and
received his M.D. degree in 1954. Dr. Priest is
a practicing physician in the Dayton area and,
though quite some distance away, is an active
member of the Cincinnati alumni chapter. Jim
and his wife ‘Timmie have three sons and two
daughters.

‘Thomas Clayborne Frost, Jr., ’50, of San An-
tonio, Texas, is the young president of the Frost
National Bank. He is treasurer of the Texas
Foundation of Voluntary Supported Colleges
and Universities and a trustee of the Southwest
Texas Methodist Hospital. Tom is making an
impressive career as a bank executive. He is mar-
ried to the former Patricia Holden and _ the
couple have four sons.

Norman Lester Dobyns, °54, of Springfield,
Virginia, is administrative assistant to Virginia’s
Congressman from the first district, the Honor-
able ‘Thomas N. Downing. Before joining Rep-
resentative Downing in 1960 Norm was with the
Product Advertising and Sales Promotion De-
partment for General Electric Company. For one
year he was vice-president of an advertising and
public relations agency in the nation’s capitol.
He has served as class agent for several years and
is an active member of the Washington, D.C.,
alumni chapter. He is married and has two
daughters,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

i
i

 

 

CHAPTER CORRESPONDENTS

Applachian—James W. Harman, Jr., ’44,
Tazewell, Virginia

Arkansas—H. Tyndall Dickinson, ’41, 6
Palisade Drive, Little Rock

Atlanta—Farris P. Hotchkiss, ’58, 120 Bis-
cayne Drive, Apt. B-5

Augusta-Rockingham—J. B. Stombock, ’41,
Box 594, Waynesboro, Virginia

Baltimore—William N. Clements, II, 750,
701 Kingston Road

Birmingham—John V. Coe, ‘25, 3421
Spring Hill Road, Birmingham 13

Charleston, West Virginia—William T. W.
Brotherton, Jr., ’47, 612 Charleston Na-
tional Bank Building

Charlotte—Harry A. Berry, Jr., ’51, 3832
Abingdon Road, Charlotte. N. C.

Chattanooga—Gerry U. Stephens, ’50, 2720
Haywood Avenue

Chicago—William H. Hillier, ’38, 321 West
Lincoln Avenue, Wheaton, Illinois

Cleveland—William M. France, ’58, 21075
Sydenham Road, Shaker Heights 22, O.

Cumberland Walley—I. Glenn Shively, ’36,

102 Woodland Way, Chambersburg, Pa.

Danville—Douglas K. Frith, ’57, 5 Monroe
Arms Apartments, Martinsville, Virginia

Florida West Coast—Joseph H. Chumbley,
’55, 205 Fifth Street North, St. Peters-
burg 1, Florida

Houston—Robert I. Peeples, '57, 2344 South
Boulevard

Jacksonville—William B. Barnett, ’58, 4619
Apache Avenue, Jacksonville 10, Florida

Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, °49, 15 West
10th Street

Louisville—A., R. Boden, °52, 3913 Druid
Hills Road

Lynchburg—S. Thomas Martin, ’38, 89
North Princeton Circle

Mid-South—Milburn K Noell, Jr., ’51, 199
Fenwick, Memphis 11, Tennessee

New Orleans—John H. McMillan, ’42, 5620
Hurst St., New Orleans 18, La.

New River-Greenbrier—Judge Robert J.
Thrift, Jr., ’31, Box 599, Fayetteville,
West Virginia

New York—Richard H. Turrell, ’49, 26 Ho-
bart Gap Road, Short Hills, New Jersey

Norfolk—Earle A. Cadmus, ’'26, 303 New
Kirn Building, Portsmouth, Virginia

North Texas—C. M. Patrick, Jr., ’55, 5358
Montrose, Dallas, Texas

Northern Louisiana—Robert U. Goodman,
’50, 471 Leo Street, Shreveport, Louisiana

Palm Beach-Ft. Lauderdale—Hugh _ S&S.
Glickstein, ’53, Suite 304-06 Atlantic Fed-
eral Building, 1750 East Sunrise Boule-
vard, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida

Peninsula—I. Leake Wornom, Jr., ’50,
2219 Chesapeake Avenue, Hampton, Va.

Philadelphia—Stuart J. Bracken, ‘54, 727
Mt. Moro Road, Villanova, Pennsylvania

Piedmont—Robert F, Campbell, Jr., ’42,
621 Nokomis Court, Winston Salem,
North Carolina

Pittsburgh—John E. Perry, ’38, 1330 Ter-
race Drive

Richmond—John F. Kay, Jr., 751, 5502
Toddsbury Road

Roanoke—William R. Holland, ’50, Moun-
tain Trust Bank, P. O. Box 1411

San Antonio—Robert H. Seal, °44, 417
Canterbury Hills, San Antonio, Texas

St. Louis—Burr W. Miller, °49, 6632 Pep-
peridge Drive, St. Louis 34, Mo.

Southern Ohio—Robert W. Hilton, Jr., '38,
3277 Hardisty Avenue, Cincinnati 8, Ohio

Tri-State—Joe W. Dingess, ’21, 151 Kings
Highway, Huntington, West Virginia

Tulsa—Eldridge C. Hubert, ’51, P. O. Box
93

Upper Potomac—Thomas N. Berry, ’38, 15
N. Alleghany St., Cumberland, Maryland

Washington, D. C. — Arthur Clarendon
Smith, Jr., ’41, 1318 You Street, N.W.

Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, ’52, 100
Cambridge Drive

 

If you move, contact the nearest
chapter correspondent for

news of meetings.

SUMMER 1964

Secretary Wm. Washburn’s

Report Reflects Important

Growth of the Association

By WiLLIAM C. WASHBURN

Executive Secretary

T IS ALWAYS a pleasure for me to
I report on the activities of the
Alumni Association which, in my
opinion, shows steady progress, and
it is particularly gratifying when
I can report another successful year.

Last year, you will remember, I

reported a record for the Alumni

Fund, both in terms of money re-
ceived and contributors participat-
ing. This year I am happy to say
that we have already set another
record for the total, and it is indeed
possible that we will reach a new
level of participation. As of this
morning the fund has _ reached
$147,488. (Last year on July 1 it was
$140,000.) Now the goal for this
year was $165,000, so we have some
climbing to do yet before the end
of the fiscal year on June goth. But
we can all take pride, I think, in
the fact that the total fund has set
a new record.

Let me pause to pay special
thanks to all who have worked, and
who are still working, so hard to
make this success. What levels we
reach are due to the splendid co-
operation of so many—from Presi-
dent Cole and the entire adminis-
tration, the Alumni Board of Trus-
tees, the Alumni Fund Council
(and a special thanks to Bob Kime
who headed this Council), from the
faculty, and especially from the
ninety-three class agents and the
literary hundreds of regional ag-
ents and workers who even this
very day are working for Washing-

ton and Lee. I cannot overempha-
size the importance of each and
every one of these groups, nor can
I possibly express all the thanks
that are in my heart and, I know,
in yours also.

A word of caution might be en-
tered here. We have noted it in
past years. While we seem to have
success in the total amount of funds
raised, we need very badly to in-
crease the number of alumni who
participate. As of right now, we
have about thirty-two per cent of
those who are solicited actually
participating. Just think what
could be done if we could raise
this percentage—not only in terms
of financial support, but more es-
pecially in terms of overall interest
and dedication to Washington and
Lee.

Let me say to those who wonder
about our statistics that to the best
of my knowledge we define an al-
umnus in the very same way that
every other college does. Some col-
leges and universities, the ones with
which we alumni normally like to
compare ourselves, are getting par-
ticipation percentages much higher
than ours. Now I realize this is
more my problem and the Fund
Council’s—but it is also yours! You
should be aware of this and go back
to your home community with re-
newed effort and determination to
pass the word—to do what you can
individually to help encourage
more participation.

41

 

I wonder if I might inject a sad
but maybe pertinent note right
here: Last ‘Tuesday Washington
and Lee’s oldest alumnus passed
away. Dr. Leslie Lyle Compbell,
class of 1887 and born in Septem-
ber, 1863, died here in Lexington.
He would have been 101 years old
this coming September. He was a
perfectly wonderful old gentleman
and a distinguished alumnus. I
have called on him several times
recently in his home, and it was al-
ways an inspiration to me. Ihe
spirit, love, and devotion he held
for Washington and Lee were truly
wonderful. It is his type of devo-
tion—his type of active interest—
that we must awaken in all who
share in Washington and Lee.

There are many other parts of
alumni association work. Those of
you who are here today can look
around your campus and see the

tremendous growth of the physical
plant. Let me assure you that simi-
lar progress can be found in the
academic program, in student ac-
tivities, and in all other phases of
college life. Through the Alumni
Magazine we have tried to keep the
alumni advised of this growth. The
magazine is now being mailed quar-
terly to 11,200 alumni. This year
we had even larger issues than last
year—two 48-page issues, one large
56-page issue (the largest since I’ve
been here), and a 32-page issue. We
find that there is more and more
to tell about your University; we
are using more pictures to help tell
the University’s story. ‘The maga-
zine continues to be our main chan-
nel of communication. We hope
you enjoy it.

The association has, I am happy
to report, added two new chapters
this year and there are two more in
the planning stage. I personally

have traveled to a great many of
these chapters this year, and on
quite a few trips I have accompan-
ied Dean Gilliam. Members of the
faculty and other representatives of
the University have visited many
chapters. I honestly feel that we are
doing well on this score. I assure
you that all on the faculty and staff
at the University are willing and
eager to visit the field chapters-—
of course, within the limits of their
academic load. What I am trying
to say here is that, in my opinion,
we can be quite happy about our
chapter organization. I feel as
though there is new vigor and
interest manifested throughout the
chapters.

Your association continues in its
traditional activities. All are very,
very important, but I shall just
mention them. The Association
takes an active part in Freshman
Camp; with the help of IBM we

 

Sons of alumni graduating in 1964 included these seniors: standing, l-r, W. H. Kipp, III; R. M. Roperts, Jr. T. C. Lewis; F. W.
Wricut; P. D. SHARP, JR.; G. B. SPAULDING; W. J. SmitH; J. H. Harpwick, JRr.; and A. E. BroApus. Proud fathers, l-r, are R. M. Ros-
ERTS, 43; C. I. Lewis, ’g0; ‘IT. P. Wricut, ’29; P. D. SHARP, ’31; G. M. SPAULDING, "34; J. C. Smirn, ’91; J. H. HArpwick, ’31; and T. H.
BROADUS, ’25.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

continue to service fraternities
faster with better records. Home-
coming was a big success this year,
as was the Mock Convention in
which your Association helped to
some degree. The Randolph ‘Tuck-
er Law Lectures was another oc-
casion for the gathering of alumni
for intellectual inspiration as well
as good fellowship. ‘The Senior
Banquet was held again this year
and, of course, this very Reunion
is now in progress.

Perhaps our biggest project this
year is the Directory. This turned
out to be a much larger undertak-
ing than we figured. We have been
working very hard and devoting
every spare minute to it. Here let
me pause to mention the Alumni
Office staff. We’ve attempted to do
this Directory without too much
outside clerical help. It has meant
a large extra load for everyone in
my office, and I know you will join
me in publicly expressing every

Other alumni sons graduating included, l-r, E. A. Ames, III; J

 

thanks. ‘The Directory is ninety-
nine per cent finished. Had it not
been for the Mock Convention and
this Reunion, we could have finish-
ed it. Our target date now is July
15th, when we will crate it all up
and ship it to the publishers. ‘They
have estimated early September as
a time when they can start sending
us the completed Directory. I'll not
stop to describe the contents. I'll
just say that it will be a paper-
bound book of approximately 392
pages, containing an alphabetical
section, a class section, and a geo-
graphic section.

These are just a few of the phases
in which your Association has op-
erated this year. For the future, the
horizons hold great promise and
excitement. One of these exciting
plans is the prospect of our long-
awaited Alumni House. In the
president’s report I am sure he will
want to tell you of those plans. It
is enough for me to report here that

 

we are finally on the road to doing
something definite toward the es-
tablishment of a very nice Alum-
ni House. I am sure that you will
be interested in what President Bat-
tle reports and in the future reports
which will be coming forth from
the Alumni Board of Trustees.

In closing, let me say how much
I have enjoyed this year. As I look
back, I see definite progress. There
is much yet to be done, and I look
forward to this with excitement.
Washington and Lee is steadily
going forward. Our Alumni Asso-
ciation must keep up the pace.

I want to express my _ thanks
again to President Cole and all
Universtiy officials and faculty; to
the Alumni Board of ‘Trustees; to
Bob Kime and the Alumni Fund
Council; the absolute army of

chapter officials, class and regional
agents; and to all who have given
so unselfishly of their time and
talents to make this a great year.

 

. F. Lackey; J. ‘TuRNER; D. R. WALLIs, Jr.; C. F. Urnqunarrt, III; G. B.

CRADDOCK, JR.; J. P. Res; K. P. LANE, JR.; and R. A. KELL. The fathers seated are, l-r, E. A. AMES, yh. 245 J.-S. LAckry; ’24; Coorer
TURNER, JR., 27; D. R. WALLIS, ’35; C. F. URQUHART, JR.; ’30; G. B.Crappock, ’30; M. J. REIS, ’30; K. P. LANE, ’36; and R. C. KELL, ’31.

SUMMER 1964 43

CLass Notes

1909

A veteran Louisiana physician was hon-
ored by Tulane University upon comple-
tion of fifty years in the practice of medi-
cine. He is Dr. WILLIAM EDMOND Morer-
LAND. Dr. Moreland, after getting his
medical degree from Tulane School of
Medicine, completed his internship at
Charity Hospital in Shreveport. He en-
tered the general practice of medicine at
Powhatan in 1917 and today remains ac-
tive as a “country doctor.” Dr. and Mrs.
Moreland have four children and _ ten
grandchildren.

1910

Harry J. LEMLEy, a retired former judge
of Hope, Arkansas, has been awarded a
Certificate of Commendation by the Okla-
homa Civil War Centennial Commission
for his active role during their centennial
and particularly for his writings about
Indians of the Confederacy. On “Law Day”
held on May 1, 1964, in Little Rock, the
Hon. Richard C. Butler paid tribute to
Judge Lemley. He described him, in the
words of Sir ‘Thomas More, as ‘“‘a man for
all seasons.” Judge Lemley was en-
gaged in the active practice of law at
Hope from 1912 to 1939 when he was
appointed U.S. District Judge. He has
been active in many areas. He is consid-
ered one of the country’s outstanding au-
thorities on the history of the Civil War
(War Between the States) and he is the
author of numerous papers on Confeder-
ate Military History. Several years ago
the Arkansas Bar Association presented
Judge Lemley a plaque in recognition of
his services on the bench. Judge and Mrs.
Lemley have two grandsons and three
eranddaughters.

1913

WILLIAM A. HYMAN, an _ internationally
known lawyer, has charged that some New
York hospitals, particularly in the Brook-
lyn Jewish Chronic Disease Hospital in
collaboration with the Sloan-Kettering
Institute, have been conducting cancer
experiments without the patients’ “‘in-
formed consent in writing.” Hyman, a di-
rector of the Chronic Disease Hospital
since 1925, insists he favors hospital re-
search, but only if the patients have full
understanding and are capable of giving
meaningful consent. ‘The experiments
came to Hyman’s attention when three
doctors resigned. Mr. Hvyman’s_§accusa-
tions triggered a state investigation re-
sulting in an order by the State Supreme
Court that the Chronic Disease Hospital

44

 

Dr. WILLIAM E, MORELAND, ’09

open its records of the controversial can-
cer experiments. In late February New
York City, in a crackdown stemming from
the controversy, warned private hos-
pitals it would cut off payments for city
patients if the patients are used in ex-
periments without their written consent.

1914

W. Houston BARCLAY spends his winters
in Lexington, Virginia, and the summers
in Estes Park, Colorado. He and Mrs.
Barclay have four children and_ seven-
teen grandchildren.

1917

MARRIED: Witu1AM J. Cox and Miss
Jane Rust were married on July 25, 1963,
in Leesburg, Virginia.

Epwarp L. Hrx started work in April as
manager of the Oregon Humane Society.
Mr. Hix, who makes his home in Port-
land, Oregon, retired in 1961 as super-
intendent of the Union Carbide Metals
Company after forty-four years of service.

1919

Until three years ago HuGH COLUMBUS
‘TricG continued to play tennis regularly.
He is now retired from the Railway Mail
Service and lives in Arlington, Virginia.

1921

CHARLES L. GILKESON retired May 1, 1964,
as Senior Staff Engineer with the Virginia
Electric and Power Company in Rich-
mond.

Since leaving Washington and Lee, J. B.
Hoke has been in the engineering and
construction field. He has seen service
with the West Virginia State Road Com-

mission, with a firm of consulting engi-
neers in Philadelphia and with a subsi-
diary of DuPont Company in paving ma-
terial manufacturing. Since 1938 he has
organized four companies in the construc-
tion and manufacturing fields.

1922

Retired Rear Admiral ALBerr C. Mur-
DAUGH is teaching advanced physics at
George Washington University.

WILLIAM H. BARRETT is the assistant
principal of the Falls Church (Va.) High
School.

1923

YreD L. Wuite has been in the Small Loan
Business in Virginia for thirty-two years.
He makes his home in Petersburg.

1925

PuiLiep F. HOWERTON is among five per-
sons who received an honorary doctor’s
degree from Southwestern University at
Commencement exercises in June. Mr.
Howerton’s honor comes because of his
extensive work in_ the _ Presbyterian
church. He has been an elder since 1940
and served as a deacon eight years before
that. He is president of the board of trus-
tees of the Presbyterian Foundation, Inc.,
and was moderator of the General Assem-
bly of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., in
1958-59. In addition to his Presbyterian
activities, Mr. Howerton is a life mem-
ber and charter trustee of the Million
Dollar Round ‘Table of the National As-
sociation of Life Underwriters.

1926

Epwin G. HUNDLEY, vice-president of the
United States Fidelity and Guaranty Com-
pany of Baltimore, was elected chairman
of the executive committee of the Surety
Association of America in May. Mr. Hund-
ley is director of his company’s fidelity
and surety departments. He is a lawyer
and was in private practice before join-
ing the USF&G in 1929.

1927

WALTON HowaArp BACHRACH has_ been
the Mayor of Cincinnati since 1961. Pre-
viously he had been in the restaurant
business in that city.

1928

WILLIAM C. Drewry lives in Beverly
Hills, California, where he is vice-presi-
dent of Southern California Edison Com-
pany. He and his wife have one son,
Tony, now attending the University of
Southern California.

1931

Joun C. SmirH, Senior Vice-president of
the Northern ‘Trust Company of Chicago,
retired May 1, 1964. Mr. Smith began
his career with Northern Trust in 1931,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

and after serving in several capacities he
was named officer in charge of the newly-
created Administrative Department in
1949 and was elected to the position of
Senior Vice-president in 1962. He is a
member of the Citizens Board of the
University of Chicago and is president and
trustee of the Chicago Home for Incur-
ables.

1932

JoHN C. Harris of Scottsboro, Alabama,
is president of Scottsboro Wholesale Com-
pany, Incorporated. He is a past-president
of the Alabama Wholesale Grocers’ Asso-
ciation and vice-president of the United
States Wholesale Grocers’ Association.

1934

After graduation, RuceE P. DEVAN, Jr.,
entered the general insurance business in
Charleston, West Virginia, with DeVan
and Company. He became president of
the firm in 1938. Recently DeVan and
Company merged with Gallaher and
Sutherland, both companies of over fifty
years of business in Charleston. Ruge is
now president of DeVan-Gallaher. He is
prominent in civic affairs and has served
as president and director of many organ-
izations.

1936

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Harry L. Fitz-
GERALD, a son, Kevin Clay, on April 2,
1964, in Tulsa, Oklahoma. In January
Mr. Fitzgerald was promoted to vice-
president of the Home-State Production
Company of Tulsa. The Fitzgeralds also
have a daughter, Mary Catherine, three
years old.

Dr. JAMES L. Price, JR., Professor and
Chairman of Religion at Duke University,
has been named the new Dean of Trinity
College in Durham, North Carolina. Dr.
Price, who will continue his responsibili-
ties in the Department of Religion, will
also become Associate Dean of Arts and
Sciences. A scholar of the New Testament,
Dr. Price has been a faculty member at
Duke for fourteen years. He is 1964 vice-
president of the American Academy of
Religion and a member of the Southern
Society for the Philosophy of Religion.
Before going to Duke, Dr. Price taught
at Washington and Lee and at South-
western at Memphis. During World War
II he was a Navy chaplain in the Pa-
cific area.

1937

WILLIAM A. CONNOR is a rancher and a
banker in Daingerfield, ‘Texas. The past-
president of ‘Texas Materials, Incorporat-
ed, he is a director of the local National
Bank and the Daingerfield Industrial
Foundation. He is a breeder of cattle and
has ranches in Morris and Cass counties.
Bill is married to the former Lucille
Weise, and the couple has three daugh-
ters.

SUMMER 1964

1938

GERALD M, Livery of Prairie Village, Kan-
sas, and a representative of the Kansas
City general agency of National Life In-
surance Company of Vermont, has earned
membership in the firm’s 1964 President’s
Club. Membership in the club recognizes
outstanding achievement in client service
and sales as a career life underwriter for
the company.

The president of Sweetwater Hosiery
Mills, OvtIver KING JONEs, JR., has been
elected chairman of the Board of Direc-
tors of National Association of Hosiery
Manufacturers. The election took place in
April during the 16th annual convention
held in Boca Raton, Florida. Mr. Jones
and his family live in Sweetwater, Ten-
nessee, where he is active in business, re-
ligious, civic and banking affairs.

J. McLain Stewart is director of McKin-
sey and Company, Incorporated, in New
York City. He makes his home in New
Canaan, Connecticut.

THE Rev. Morton T. Ketsty will have
a book published this summer by Double-
day entitled Tongue Speaking, an Ex-
periment in Religious Experience. The
Reverend Kelsey was asked to do this
work because of his knowledge of the
tongue-speaking movement and_ because
of his having a psychological clinic at his
church, St. Luke’s Episcopal in Monrovia,
California, which gives a viewpoint from
which to discuss the subject. The book
will be the first non-Pentecostal attempt
to assess the experience of tongue-speaking
objectively in nearly thirty years.

GrEorcE F. BAvurR has been promoted to
senior staff engineer, Armco Division,
Armco Steel Corporation.

1940

MERVIN H. LuriA has been appointed
regional vice-president of the Luria Di-
vision of the Ogden Corporation in Bev-
erly Hills, California. Merv has been with
the company since 1939 and now has the
responsibility for company operations in
a broad area encompassing California and
most of the Western and Mid-western
states. He will continue his office in Los
Angeles which is the headquarters for the
Western region. Luria is the largest scrap
metal firm in the world and is celebrating
its 71st anniversary this year. In the Los
Angeles plant Luria has built a machine
called Lurment. Old auto bodies are fed
into one end of the machine, and in an
amazingly short time, the autos are frag-
mented and come out the other end of
the machine in fist-size pellets, g8 per
cent ferrous content.

Joining Corning Glass Works in 1946,
JAMES H. BIERER has been market research
analyst, marketing manager of Consumer
Products Division and manager of the
tableware department. It was recently an-
nounced that he has been appointed
general manager of the Consumer Pro-

ducts Division of Corning Glass. Before
joining Corning, he was associated with
Sperry Gyroscope Company.

1941

In the fall of 1963 James R. MCCONNELL
was made executive vice-president of the
Pangborn Corporation, a subsidiary of the
Carborundum Company. Pangborn, with
the main plant in Hagerstown, Maryland,
produces machinery for the metals work-
ing industry and is known the world over
for the design and manufacture of blast-
cleaning and dust collecting equipment.

An executive of the Indiana Tractor
and Sales, Inc., a firm that formerly dis-
tributed Ford ‘Tractors and Implements
in Indianapolis, Indiana, A. THOMAS
BisHop, JR., has returned to Louisville,
Kentucky, to form, with Don H. Giles,
four new companies which will distribute
Chrysler MOPAR replacement automible
parts. ‘The new firms under the name of
Jasco, Inc., will be in Louisville, Ken-
tucky, Nashville and Knoxville, Tennessee,
and Cincinnati, Ohio. Another Washing-
ton and Lee man, A. R. BopEn, Jr. ’52,
former senior staff accountant for _Hum-
phrey, Robinson and Company, will serve
as controller for the four companies.

1942

THomas H. Cox is a partner in the law
firm of Cox, Pendleton & Swan with of-
fices in Hemet, Riverside, and Sun City,
California. Tom and his wife, Joy, have
six children, ranging in age from thirteen
to two.

1943

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT FRANCIS
MAcCCACHRAN, a son, Bradford Jenkins, on
May 19, 1964. The family now includes
two children and resides in Chatham, New
Jersey.

The Health Physics Society has announc-
ed the nomination of FRANK L. PASCHAL,
JR., to the Board of Directors. After he
received a B.A. in biology and chemistry
from the University of Texas and did
post-graduate work at Trinity University,
Frank went with Westinghouse Atomic
Power Division in 1950. In 1952 he went
to General Dynamics Corporation and
is presently living in Ft. Worth where he
is in charge of all Health Physics work,
including the Air Force Nuclear Aerospace
Research Facility. He is a past-president of
the American Industrial Hygiene Associa-
tion and is a member of the association's
Technical Committee for Radiation.

1944

WILLIAM F. PARKERSON, JR., is a practicing
attorney in Richmond, Virginia. He is also
in the State Senate, representing Henrico
County. Bill is married to the former
Nancy Ellen Davis, and the couple has
two sons and two daughters.

45

 

1945

ROBERT EDWARD JACKSON is Rome bureau
chief of Time and Life magazines. A for-
mer United Press bureau chief in Rome,
Jackson joined Time in 1957, serving as
a foreign news writer and News Editor
until moving to Rome in 1963. He has
supervised coverage of the death of ‘Pope
John and election of Pope Paul, both of
which were cover stories; the Italian elec-
tions and yearlong political crises; two
Greek elections and the death of King
Paul. Also directed Time’s color photo
and word coverage of the Pope’s trip to
the Holy Land.

1947

WILLIAM YOUNG SMITH was recently prc-
moted to Lieutenant Colonel at the Penta-
gon where he has been on the staff of
Gen. Maxwell D. ‘Taylor, Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff. Col. Smith, married
and father of three sons, holds a doctor’s
degree in economics and government
from Harvard University. He has served

as an assistant professor of economics at
West Point.

1948

In May Davin B. Corer, JR., was running
unopposed for re-election on the Demo-
cratic ticket for Criminal District Attor-
ney in Bryan, ‘Texas. He is in the general
practice of law with the firm of Cofer
and Dillon.

1949

BORN: Mr. and Mrs, JAMEs 'T. MAGRUDER,
a son, Wayne Lewis, on November 8, 1963,
in Osaka, Japan. Jim is with the Presby-
terian Mission Board there and is mission
treasurer and chairman of the Board at
Yodogawa Christian Hospital in Kobe,

Japan.

Fred ALLEN STANLEY was recently elected
president and chief executive officer of the
Pulaski Furniture Corporation, a publicly
held manufacturer of bedroom and dining
room furniture in Pulaski, Virginia. Fred
succeeds his late father.

Twice a nominee for the State Legis-
lature, JoHN H. Reep, Jr., is currently
completing an elected four-year term as
Municipal Judge of South Charleston,
West Virginia. He has practiced law in
South Charleston since graduation and
between 1949 and 1954 Was an instructor
and lecturer at Morris Harvey College.
Judge Reed has been active in civic life
and is a_past-president of the South
Charleston Chamber of Commerce.

1950

EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, JR., is in his inter-
mediate year at the Episcopal Theological
Seminary. He was recently elected presi-
dent of the student body.

THomaAs D. CrIrrENDEN has been named
regional manager, Midwest territory, in
the Loss and Claim Department of Home
Insurance Company. He began with the
firm in 1959 as territorial supervisor.

IsAAc M. ScHer has been working as a
newspaperman for fourteen years since

Roger Mudd, °50, Newsman in the News

# ROGER MUDD, 50, for several years
one of CBS News’ hardest working
correspondents, apparently has
come into his own as something of
a ‘I'V personality.

Folks who watched the CBS cov-
erage of the long civil rights debate
in the senate saw enough of Mudd
to establish life-long attachments
to the pleasant, knowledgeable
former Washington and Lee _ his-
tory student.

Newsweek took note of Mudd’s
long exposure—both to the viewing
public and the elements—in_ this
way in its June 22 issue with an ar-
ticle tagged ‘“‘Mudd Into Gold:”

“When historians record the saga
of the civil-rights bill of 1964, a
CBS newsman named Roger Mudd
will certainly merit at least a rich
footnote. Since March 30, Mudd,
whose basic salary is only $75 a
week, has been actually earning
$2,100 weekly bringing spot coy-
erage of the debate to CBS radio
and ‘TV audiences.

40

EDITOR’S NOTE: After this article was
prepared, even greater national recogni-
tion came to Roger Mudd when he was
chosen by CBS news to serve with Robert
Trout as “anchor men” for the network’s
TV coverage of the Democratic National
Convention in Atlantic City.

 

RoGER Muppb, ’50

“The idea that spawned this flow
of wealth to Mudd belonged to
Fred W. Friendly, head of CBS
News. Friendly decided that he
would assign one reporter to cover
the filibuster until it ended. “As
the idea was first explained to me,
it sounded like a flagpole-sitting
stunt, said Mudd last week.

“What makes Mudd’s patrol so
lucrative is television’s ‘fee system.’
Under it, T'V and radio newsmen
are paid for each appearance,
usually $17.50 for radio spots and
$38.50 for ‘I'V spots, and by his
own count Mudd has been averag-
ing at least six television and sev-
en radio appearances a day, five
days a week, for almost eleven
weeks.

“On a typical day last week the
36-year-old Mudd arrived at the
Capitol at about 9:30 a.m. to pre-
pare for the one-minute spot at 10.
After that and an 11 a.m. spot, he
joined the Cloture Club, a group
of reporters who interview the
senate leaders. At noon, he did an

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Mupp’s vigil exposed him to
many hazards. At left he is
shown with SEN. Huperr H.
HUMPHREY, in the rain, and
under a hot spring sun.

updater for CBS’s local station,
WTOP-TV, for which he worked
from 1956 until 1961. After lunch,
he wandered around the Senate cor-
ridors gathering information and
then did four or five more spots.
When cloture came last Wednes-
day, Mudd stood outside the Sen-
ate wing and announced the vote
with what a friend described as
‘the happiest face I’ve ever seen.’
Whether his joy was due to the
outcome of the debate or the end
of a long assignment remains in
Mudd’s mind. A scrupulously im-
partial reporter, he has never re-
vealed his personal views on the
issue.

“Mudd, a native Washingtonian,
has been in broadcast news for
more than ten years. After gradu-
ation from Washington and Lee
University in 1950, he studied at
the University of North Carolina
and taught English in Rome, Ga.
He then joined WRNL radio in
Richmond, Va., moved to WTOP-
TV in 1956, and to the network in
1961.

“His soft Southern accent, along

SUMMER 1964

with an affable personality, has
attracted millions of viewers. Sev-
eral ladies, in fact, have written
CBS to express concern about his
health, since he has broadcast out-
doors in every weather imaginable.

“For Mudd, the end of the fili-
buster may mean a return to his
former $400-a-week average pay-
checks. But until the bill has been
voted upon later this month, he has
another few days of being a willing
part of one of the worst puns of
all time. ‘‘Friendly,” said a CBS
official recently, “is an alchemist.
After all, he turned Mudd into
gold.”

Mudd went on to report from
the floor of the 1964 Republican
National Convention in San Fran-
cisco, where even more. viewers
came to know and appreciate his
news-gathering skill.

Mudd joined CBS News, Wash-
ington, in July 1961 after serving
since 1956 as a member of the news
and Public Affairs Department of
WTOP, CBS afhliate in the na-
tion’s capital.

On Election Night in 196g,

 

 

Mudd analyzed the gubernatorial
and congressional results from the
South at CBS News Election Head-

quarters in New York City.

While a member of the WTOP
staff, Mudd accompanied Soviet
Premier Nikita Khrushchev during
his 1959 tour of the United States
and also attended the 1960 Repub-
lican and Democratic National
Conventions. He provided the com-
mentary on the televised Senate
Select Committee hearings on rack-
eteering in labor and management.

Before joining WTOP, Mudd
was News Director for station
WRNL, Richmond, Va.

In the fall and winter of 1952-53,
Mudd worked as a reseach assist-
ant for the Committee on Tax-
Exempt Foundations of the House
of Representatives. In June 1953,
he joined the staff of the Richmond
News Leader as a reporter and
four months later was appointed
the first full-time News Director
for WRNL, the radio station Op-
erated by that newspaper. Mudd is
married and the father of four
children.

47

leaving Washington and Lee. For the past
two years Zeke has been putting his free
time into law practice, since he finished
the University of Denver Law School.

1951

BORN: Capt. and Mrs. JAMES A. SNYDER,
a son, Lawrence Alan, on March 18, 1963.
Capt. Snyder is presently Commander of
an Armament and Electronics Mainten-
ance Squadron in Germany.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Guy B. HAMMOND,
a son, Bruce Guyton, on November go,
1963, in Blacksburg, Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN K. BOARDMAN,
Jr., a third daughter, Elizabeth Ewing,
on October 1, 1963. John is president of
the Sam Moore Furniture Industries with
general offices in Bedford, Virginia.

1952

CrEORGE SHANNO has been named manager
of Commercial Car Journal, a Chilton
Publications magazine. George has been
associated with the Chilton Company
since 1959, working in sales promotion
and marketing research.

ROBERT C, LOUTHIAN, JR., is with the Leg-
islative Counsel’s Office in the U.S. Senate
where he participates in the drafting of
bills for Senators and for committees of
the Senate.

As president of the Atlanta Civic Ballet,
JuLIAN B. Mour was responsible for its
outstanding success this year. ‘The Atlantic
Civic Ballet, a non-profit organization
composed of local dancers, conducted its
second season in Atlanta’s 5,000-seat audi-
torium on December 28-29. ‘The magnifi-
cent performance was billed as “The At-
lanta Civic Ballet’s Free Christmas Gift
to the City of Atlanta.” Julian was largely
responsible for the raising of some $10,000
from local businesses required to pay a
70-piece Civic Ballet Orchestra. ‘The
thought behind the organization’s efforts
is to further the cultural climate of At-
lanta. A 1963-64 itinerary has been es-
tablished that includes performances with
the Chatttanooga, ‘Tennessee, Symphony,
the Atlanta Symphony, and ten additional
dates.

A. R. BopEN, Jr., former senior staff ac-
countant for Humphrey, Robinson and
Company, a Louisville, Kentucky, account-
ing firm, will serve as controller for four
newly formed companies to distribute
Chrysler MOPAR automobile parts in
Kentucky, ‘Tennessee and Ohio. Gus,
along with A. ‘T. BisHop JR., 42, and Don
Giles of Louisville will operate the four
firms from the headquarters of the for-
mer Monarch Equipment Company.

Boyp H. LeyBurn, Jr., has moved to
Little Rock, Arkansas, where he is assist-

48

 

JULIAN B. Morr, ’52

ant manager of the Sears, Roebuck & Com-
pany store.

1953

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ‘Tyson L, JANNEY,
a son, Tyson Douglass, on April 5, 1964.
Tyson is with the Richmond advertising
agency, Robert Kline and Company, Inc.,
and the Janneys make their home in
Richmond.

JOHN JosepH SCHUMACHER has been made
sales manager for Whitacre-Greer Fire-
proofing Company in Waynesburg, Ohio.
John, his wife, and three children live
in Canton, Ohio.

Roy M. Craic, JR., has been practicing
with the law firm of Woolfolk, Myers,
Curtis, Newman & Craig in Lake Wales,
Florida, since March and is now living
in Lake Wales.

1954

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RENO S. Harp, III,
a daughter, Anne Harcourt, on May 19,
1964, in Richmond, Virginia. Reno is as-
sistant attorney-general for the Common-
wealth of Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GEorGE S. WILSON,
III, a daughter, Jennifer Taylor, on April
22, 1964. George is an attorney in Owens-
boro, Kentucky.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. OVERTON PRICE
POLLARD, a son, William Price, on April
9g, 1964, in Farmville, Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. STUART BRACKEN,
a third son, Thomas Johnston, on Janu-
ary 28, 1964, in Villanova, Pennsylvania.

OVERTON P. POLLARD has moved to Rich-
mond, Virginia, where he will be in the
claims office of the ‘Travelers Insurance
Company.

After receiving his LL.B. degree from
George Washington University, ROBERT S.
CULLEN is now with the claims depart-
ment of Travelers Insurance Company in
Washington, D.C. The Cullens have two
sons and a daughter.

The Goodyear ‘Tire and Rubber Company
transfered JAcos A. Sites from Cleveland
to the home office in Akron, Ohio, and
promoted him to senior staffman in the
Comptrollers Division. He lives in Cuya-
hoga Falls, Ohio.

For the past ten years since graduation,
Rogpert O. GLAsIER has had the inter-
esting experience of three years in Ger-
many with the Army, two years with In-
ternational General Electric in New York
City, and five years with the office of
Graham Parker, international industrial
and technical consultants, on assignments
to Dusseldorf, Germany, and_ Paris,
France. He is now on a one-year assign-
ment in New York City before moving to
Tokyo with his family—three boys, ages
six, five, and two.

L. DaAvip Lynn, an Allstate Insurance
Company representative, was chosen as
one of 100 top agents of a total sales
force of more than 5,000 to attend a
company conference in Mexico City last
April. David is an Allstate agent in Hon-
olulu, Hawaii.

1955

MARRIED: JOHN SLADE CARTER, JR., Was
married on April 25, 1964, to Miss ‘Tahti
Marje Mand of Amherst, Massachusetts.
The bride is an alumna of Smith College
and is an editor with the American Bap-
tist Publishing Society at Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania. Slade is with the Southeast-
ern Pennsylvania Development Fund with
offices in Philadelphia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. PETER ELSAESSER,
identical twin girls, Katherine Alexis and
Pamela Harriet, on April 26, 1964. The
Elsaessers have two other daughters and
make their home in Chesterfield, Missouri.

SIDNEY ScoTrT WHIPPLE has joined Pren-
tice Hall in New York City as an associate
editor.

Following his graduation from Union
Theological Seminary in New York City,
FRANK G. GIBSON, JR., served in an inter-
city ministry in Rochester, New York.
Since spring, 1963, he has been pastor-
director of the Winton Hill Ministry, a
new field in the public housing work of
the Presbytery of Cincinnati. ‘The Gibsons
have a son, Mark, age two years.

1956

After several years as assistant vice-presi-
dent of the First National Bank in Dallas,
WILLIAM C. NORMAN, JR., is moving to
Pine Bluff, Arkansas, to accept a position
there with the National Bank of Com-
merce.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

# EARLY IN 1964, considerable na-
tional attention came to be focused
on a relatively small (346 seats) rela-
tively obscure (a former Milwau-
kee movie house) repertory theater
known by the rather prosaic name
of the Fred Miller Theater.

The New York Times devoted a
lengthy article to the ups, downs,
and re-ups of the Fred Miller Thea-
ter, and in an article dealing with
repertory theater in America, Time
magazine cited the Fred Miller
Theater as one of the best of the
“reps.” A long piece in the Chris-
tian Science Monitor told of the
difficulties of bringing quality thea-
ter to a city that apparently didn’t
really want quality theater.

In every account of the heroics
of the Milwaukee players, the name
of John Alexander McQuiggan
jumped out, identifying him as the
prime mover behind the theater’s
current efforts, the young man re-
sponsible for much of its success
and the praise it has drawn.

Jack McQuiggan, °56, is at age
29 the producer of the Fred Mil-
ler ‘Theater, a job he has held
since the spring of 1963. He came
to the Fred Miller Theater in
1961 as a producer with the Asso-
ciation of Producing Artists of
which he was a founder. He became
general manager of the Miller
‘Theater in 1962.

Now, as producer, he selects the
eight plays which make up the Oc-
tober-April season, chooses the di-
rector of each play and the mem-
bers of the ten-member resident
company, and supervises the ad-
ministrative staff.

The current season was the Fred
Miller ‘Theater’s tenth, but only
its second under a policy that Mc-
Quiggan helped establish, a policy
that for a time seemed destined to
fail.

Through eight seasons, the thea-
ter had drawn good support for a
bill of fare based on the star sys-
tem, the kind of casting and play
selection that makes the ‘“Tonight”’

SUMMER 1964

 

 

JoHN A. McQuicGaAn, ’56

Alumnus Gives
Repertory Group
New Impetus

show’s announcer, Ed McMahon,
a smash in Paramus, N .J., or “Pass-
word's” Allen Ludden a wow in
Skowhegan, Me. The Fred Miller
management decided to inject qual-
ity into its drama by establishing
a repertory company of talent and
versatility.

The results were discouraging
during the first season of the new
plan. Only forty-nine per cent of
the seats were filled on the average,
and the resident director resigned
after disagreement with McQuig-
gan and others. ‘The Ford Founda-
tion, which had supported the ven-
ture to the tune of $50,000 for the
1962-63 season, pulled back a simi-
lar grant promised for 1963-64, part-
ly because, the Christian Science
Monitor suggested, foundation of-
ficials wanted to know if Milwau-
kee residents had enough “spunk
and interest to deserve the theater.”

McQuiggan, a veteran Trouba-
dour actor at Washington and Lee
and a big factor in two successful

student minstrels, became producer
in the spring of 1963, and fortune
seemed to change. Under his lea-
dership, a fund drive was launched,
ticket prices were cut for students,
a system of a new director for each
play was introduced, and_ things
generally began to hum. Attend-
ance filled up 71.5 per cent of the
seats on a given night, and the
plays McQuiggan produced were
hits. Said Time:

“Milwaukee’s Fred Miller Thea-
ter is battling odds and winning.
The odds are Milwaukee itself,
where the highest praise the drama
critics know how to give is to com-
pare the Miller’s actors with the
Green Bay Packers. But the Mil-
ler ‘Theater is winning because of
the extraordinary energy of its 20-
year-old producer, John Alexander
McQuigegan.” 7

Said the New York Times:

“After years of behind-the-scenes
problems that sometimes rivaled
what was happening on the arena
stage, the Fred Miller Theater has
found in the middle of its 10th sea-
son new stability, confidence, and,
astonishing even to theater officials,
genuine public response.

“More Milwaukeeans are attend-
ing the Miller, named for the late
brewery executive, than at any time
since its change two years ago to a
policy of presenting quality thea-
ber.

McQuiggan, who came to Wash-
ington and Lee from Xenia, Ohio,
and then went on to theatrical
study at the famed Neighborhood
Playhouse in New York, is hopeful
that the recent successes of the Fred
Miller Theater are only the begin-
ning. A $75,000 fund drive is vir-
tually complete, and a season ticket
sale of 4,000 for 1964-65 is antici-
pated, as compared with only 1,488
last year.

Says the young producer, “Mil-
waukee is not an easy town to put
something across. It is just begin-
ning to become aware of what we
have to offer.”

49

Dr. FRANK S. PirrMan, III, is moving to
Denver, Colorado, where he will be an
instructor in the Department of Psy-
chiatry at the Medical Center of the Uni-
versity of Colorado. He will specialize in
research in family therapy.

JAMes WuittreR Lewis is in his eighth
year of teaching at Landon School in
Washington, D.C., and for the past three
years he has served as assistant to the
headmaster. He and his wife have three
children and live in Bethesda.

1957

MARRIED: Morton P. ILER and Martha
Madison Campbell, a graduate of Welles-
ley College, were married on May 30, 1964,
in Ridgewood, New Jersey. Mort has just
completed the two-year MBA program at
the Harvard University Graduate School
of Business Administration and has ac-
cepted a position in the Controllers De-
partment of the Continental Oil Com-
pany. The Ilers will live in Ponca City,
Oklahoma.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WALTER C. CREMIN,
Jr., a daughter, Marianne, on May 4, 1964.
Marianne joins a three-year-old brother,
and the family lives in Houston, ‘Texas.

H. Merritt Pwaisrep, III, representing
Morton G. Thalhimer, Inc., of Richmond,

Virginia, attended a five-day seminar in
April at the Conrad Hilton Hotel in Chi-
cago. This meet, called ‘The University of
Shopping centers, involves some 1500
men and women in the Shopping Center
Industry.

A sales representative for Potomac Elec-
tric Power Company, KARL M._ FUNK-
HOUSER has many interests. He is an avid
rock and mineral collector and attends
many shows and does work for his local
society. He is also active in the Alexandria,
Virginia, Little ‘Theater and is enjoying
free-lance work on the local TV stations.

CHARLES M. Drum is in England for a year
working at Harwell, the Atomic Energy
Research Establishment of the United
Kingdom, on an NSF fellowship. He re-
ceived his Ph.D. in physics at the Univer-
sity of Virginia in June, 1963.

1958

BORN: Tue Rev. and Mrs. WILLIAM R.
GoopMAN, JRr., a daughter, Mary Jessica,
on March 11, 1964. In September the Rev.
Goodman will begin a doctoral program
in Biblical Studies at Duke University
Graduate School.

Last January WittiAM A. Tow ter, III,
was promoted to manager-operation with
the Charlotte, North Carolina, office of
Wachovia Bank & ‘Trust Company. The

‘Towlers have two sons, four-and-a-half
and two years old.

FRANK A. Hoss, JR., moved into his new
law office in Manassas, Virginia, last Jan-
uary. Frank is involved in the general
practice of law and also serves as assistant
Commonwealth’s Attorney.

C. DaAvip HILDRETH is presently engaged
in specialized vocational IBM work. He
and his wife, Charlotte, live in Buffalo,
New York.

MARION MAX Caskie, III, expects to finish
his Ph.D. in linguistics at the University
of Michigan this summer. He then plans
to go to Florida State University as as-
sistant professor of English.

WILLIAM CHARLES MILLER returned in the
fall of 1963 from a year of graduate study
in law at the University of Munich on a
German Government Grant. He is now
with the Legal Department of E. I. duPont
de Nemours in Wilmington, Delaware. His
work involves, among other things, legal
counsel to the International Department
of the duPont Company.

CAMPBELL C. Hurcutnson, III, is practic-
ing law in New Orleans with the firm of
Stone, Pigman & Benjamin.

WALTER EDMUND HENEs is living in Hous-
ton, Texas, where he is with the Metals
Division of Union Carbide Corporation.

Gary McPherson, °58 Is New VMI Coach

a VMI’S HEAD basketball coach Gary
D. McPherson, ’58, has the tough
task of taking over the reins of a
championship Southern Conference
cage team, and stepping into the
shoes worn for six years by one of
the most colorful college coaches
in the game, Louis F. (Weenie) Mil-
ler who resigned as VMI’s head bas-
ketball coach in April.

McPherson, 27, becomes the
youngest head coach in the South-
ern Conference and one of the
youngest major college head coach-
es in the country. He served since
November as VMI’s first full time
basketball assistant, and coached
VMIs freshman team to an 8-5
record, in addition to being Mil-
ler’s right arm as scout and bench
assistant.

Coming to VMI’s staff in No-
vember was a step up for Mc-

50

Pherson, who was for the two prev-
ious years head basketball coach at

 

GARY D. MCPHERSON, 58

Ferrum Junior College. In his two
years at Ferrum, McPherson's teams
had records of 13-8 and 14-9 re-
spectively. Prior to going to Fer-
rum, McPherson coached three
years at Bluestone (Va.) High
School, building the first winning
program at the Southside Virginia
school in its basketball history.

McPherson played college basket-
ball for Miller at Washington and
Lee on the University’s last South-
ern Conference entry. After grad-
uating with a B.A. degree from
Washington and Lee in 1958, Mc-
Pherson has gone on to do work on
his Master’s Degree at the Univer-
sity of Virginia.

A graduate of Cass, West Vir-
ginia, High School, McPherson is
married to the former Peggy Sheets
of Green Bank, West Virginia.
‘They have one son, Chris, 3.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

The Henes have a daughter, Roberta, and
a son, Walter E., III.

C. PARKHILL Mays, JR., was released in
December from active duty as a captain
in the Judge Advocate General’s Corps,
and upon his release he received the
Army Commendation Award. He is now
engaged in the practice of law with the
firm of Shakelford, Farrior, Stallings, Glos
& Evans in Tampa, Florida.

An announcement from Vanadium-Alloys
Steel Company names MArguis M. SMITH,
JR., as sales representative in the Pitts-
burgh district. He will cover a territory
including areas in Western Pennsylvania
and parts of West Virginia.

1959

MARRIED: Epwarp F. HALseELL, Jr., and
Randi Christine Nyman were married in
Ft. Worth, ‘Texas, on April 4, 1964. They
are living in Dallas, Texas, where Ed is
a stockbroker with Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith, Inc.

MARRIED: DANIEL MArtTIN Dop and
Arpine Kehagan of New York City were
married on February 24, 1964.

Lewis H. LARvE presently holds the rank
of captain in the U.S. Marine Corps Re-
serve. He is stationed at Camp Lejeune as
trial counsel in the base Legal Office. He
is married to the former Susan M. Alla-
way.

WILLIAM H. PIXTON was promoted by
the U.S. Naval Reserve in May to full
lieutenant. He has been stationed at the
Naval Air Facility in Washington, D.C.,
but he will be released from active duty
this August. He then expects to go to
the University of North Carolina for
studies toward a Ph.D. in English Liter-
ature.

‘THOMAS M. SCHMIDT graduated last year
from the University of Houston and plans
to enter the Peace Corps this summer.
After training he expects to be assigned
to Peru, South America, for two years.

CHARLES D. Hurt, Jr., graduated from
Harvard Law School in June, 1963, and is
now associated with the law firm of Hurt,
Hill and Sosebee in Atlanta, Georgia. He
is married to Beverly Jayne Grear of In-
dianapolis, Indiana.

Epwarp D. Levy, Jr., plans to enter the
Louisiana State University School of
Medicine in September.

1960

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN PARKER HILLs,
a daughter, Mary Alice, on April 24, 1964.
John is a partner in the law firm of Dann
and Hills in Memphis, ‘Tennessee.

JuLian C. Josey received his degree of
Doctor of Medicine in June from the
Bowman-Gray School of Medicine in
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. He began

SUMMER 1964

 

MArQguis M. SMITH, ’58

his internship in July at Grady Hospital
in Atlanta, Georgia.

The first of June, ist Lt. FRANK S. GLASER
finished his tour of duty with the U.S.
Army. He planned to take thirty days
leave to travel around the Far East. He ex-
pects to return to New York City to work
in investments. Frank has been stationed
in Seoul, Korea, where he has had a
number of assignments ranging from Of-
ficer in Charge of the General’s Mess to
office of the Assistant Chief of Staff Per-
sonnel, Eighth Army Support Command.
He writes that on occasions he has seen
David Corp, 61, Russ PRITCHABD, 62, and
RAY MILLER, ’62.

1961

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JON C. PETERSON, a
daughter, Tamra Lynn, on May 28, 1964.
Jon is associated with the Colonial Neon
Sign Company in Virginia Beach, a com-
pany he recently acquired.

Working as an assistant branch manager
for Lincoln-Rochester Trust Company,
Dwicur R. CHAMBERLAIN finds time to do
some writing about wildlife. He has had
several articles published in the Virginia
Wildlife and he is co-author of an article
entitled “Wayne County Heron Rookery”
in the current issue of the New York State
Conservationist. Dwight will attend the
graduate school of forestry and wildlife
at V.P.1, an the fall of 1964.

While working in the consumer depart-
ment of The Continental Bank in Cleve-
land, Ohio, RicHARD S. SCHULIST is taking
evening courses at Western Reserve Uni-
versity for credit toward a master’s degree
in business administration.

Louis H. Burrorp graduated from Law
School at Washington University, St.
Louis, in June. During this past spring he
worked part-time with the Housing Sec-

tion of the St. Louis Building Commission
Office as part of his legal seminar project.

Taking a j\temporary leave from law
School, DAvip CAROTHERS is now in the
parking lot business in Dallas, Texas. The
firm operates parking lots in a number of
the larger communities in ‘Texas and the
South. Dave does some traveling and
writes that he has seen several of his
classmates, including JAcK Morris and
ALEX GATES.

After receiving his M.A. degree in_his-
tory from the University of North Caro-
lina, CLINTON L. ANDERSON joined the
U.S. Army. He is now serving as ‘Training
Officer in charge of training enlisted per-
sonnel to be missile or rocket crewmen
in Pershing, Sergeant, Honest John, and
Little John missile systems, and is sta-
tioned at Ft. Sill, Oklahoma.

1962

MARRIED: ROSEWELL PAGE, III, and Miss
Anne Moody were married in Lexington,
Kentucky, on May 23, 1964. Among the
ushers were PHIL SHARP, ’64 Law, and
LANNY BUTLER, 63.

Robert Roy Goopwin, II, is working for
his master’s degree in newspaper man-
agement at the School of Journalism at
the University of Minnesota in Minne-
apolis. For the 1964-65 term Roy has
been awarded an assistantship with the
University’s School of Business Adminis-
tration. The assignment consists of edit-
ing several publications for the Business
School.

RicHARD L. LANG was named Assistant
‘Trust Officer for the American National
Bank and ‘Trust Company of Kalamazoo,
Michigan, last December.

1963

BORN: Lt. and Mrs. JOHN P. COvER, a
daughter, on October 2, 1963. John is a
lieutenant in the Ordnance Corps in Ft.
Lewis, Washington.

CrAiG ‘I. DIsTELHORST was a delegate to
the National Young Republican Conven-
tion in San Francisco and then vacationed
in Europe. Upon returning to the States
he worked as the legislative assistant to
Congressman Gurney of Florida, but Craig
is now a student at George Washington
Law School. This summer he is working
in the law firm of Milligan, Reilly, Like &
Schneider in Long Island, New York.

EDWARD BRENT WELLS, II, is now employed
by the Chesapeake and Potomac Tele-
phone Company as sales engineer in
Washington, D.C. The Wells live in Arl-
ington and have a son, Brent, a year old.

After receiving a master’s degree in busi-
ness administration in June, 1964, Davin
C. SWANN is with the Wachovia Bank and
‘Trust Company.

ALLAN H. JOHNSTON has been commis-

51

sioned a second lieutenant in the US Air
Force upon graduation from Officer
Training School at Tinker AFB, Okla-
homa.

Joun T. Mitts has been named honor
graduate of the technical training course
for US Air Force inventory specialists at
Tinker AFB, Oklahoma. John was trained
to order and account for supplies and
equipment through the use of data pro-
cessing equipment.

BARTLETT B. CHAMBERLAIN, III, graduated
with honors from the technical training
course for U.S. Air Force fuel specialists
at Amarillo AFB, Texas. He is trained to
fuel aircraft and to operate flight line
storage tanks and pumping systems and
is now assigned to Bates Field, Alabama.

MickEY WALKER is assistant navigator
and personnel officer aboard the USS
Aldebarran, home-based in Norfolk, Vir-
ginia. He holds the ranks of ensign and
has spent four months in the Mediterran-
ean.

WILLIAM M. BOWEN is in Law School at
the University of South Carolina, and he
finished the first semester in the top one-
fifth of his class. Recently Bill was select-
ed one of three students to represent the
Law School in national moot court com-
petition. It is quite an honor for a fresh-
man law student to be selected for this
competition.

THomMAS E. BOWER, a second lieutenant
in the US Army, is assigned to the Third
Missile Battalion, 84th Division, which
is a new Pershing Missile unit that will
be deployed overseas next winter. ‘Tom's
job will be that of Firing Platoon Leader
in a Firing Battery.

Joun P. Marcu, who has just finished a
six-month tour of duty in the Army Re-
serve, is now employed by the State
National Bank in El Paso, ‘Texas.

JouHNn G. S. Wiccins has entered US Air
Force navigator training at James Connal-
ly AFB, ‘Texas. John is a second lieu-
tenant and will receive radar and celes-
tial navigation training leading to the
award of silver navigation wings.

WILLIAM B. MACKENNEY, III, an ensign in
the Navy, in May was in the last phase
of navigation training at the Naval Air
Station in Corpus Christi, ‘Texas.

JAmes L. Howe, III, has moved from
Lynchburg, Virginia, to Richmond where
he has joined the legal department of the
Seaboard Airline Railway.

1964

MARRIED: KENNETH EDWARD GREER and
Carol Stuart Manning were married June
6 in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. After
a wedding trip to Jamaica the couple will
make their home in Charlottesville, Vir-
ginia.

eo

Y=
4

 

1903

ROBERT TRIGG FLANARY, for many years a
merchant and farmer in Norton, Virginia,
died April 6, 1964. Mr. Flanary had been
president of the First National Bank in
Wise, Virginia, and a director and vice-
president of the Norton Realty Corpora-
tion. He had been in the wholesale hard-
ware and wholesale grocery business most
of his business career.

WILLIAM JOEL ‘TURNER died on March 21,
1964, in Portland, Oregon, where he had
retired after many years with the Kenne-
cott Copper Corporation. He served as
general manager and director of the Bra-
den Copper Company in Chile, South
America, a subsidiary of the Kennecott
Corporation. After this foreign service he
was returned to the States as a consulting
engineer, and during this time he made
his home in New York. In 1934 in Chile,
Mr. ‘Turner was made a commander,
Order of Merit, and in 1944 a “Gran
Oficial,” Order of Merit. He was a most
active alumnus and for a number of years
was an effective class agent for his class
of 1903.

1909

WILLIAM ‘THEODORE DELAPLAINE, publish-
er of the Frederick News-Post, died at his
home in Frederick, Maryland, on April
17, 1964. Mr. Delaplaine’s death brought
an end to a newspaper career that had
spanned more than a half a century. It
began in 1909, after he had _ finished
Washington and Lee with honors, when
he started with the Frederick News, a
paper his father founded. In 1955 Mr.
Delaplaine became president and general
manager of the News-Post. While a stu-
dent at Washington and Lee he was presi-
dent of the student body, and he received
academic honors each year he was a stu-
dent.

1910

NorL Breppow died in Montgomery, Ala-
bama, on April 27, 1964. Mr. Beddow had
retired from his position of general su-
perintendent of the Blast Furnace Divis-
ion of the Woodward Iron Company.

JAMES HAMILTON BUNCH, a lawyer in Jack-
sonville, Florida, died in December, 1963.

Wyatr C. Heprick, Texas architect, died

in Houston, ‘Texas, on May 5, 1964, after
a brief illness. Following his schooling in
Virginia, Mr. Hedrick went to Texas
where he organized one of the largest
architectural firms in that state. One of
his most famous projects since World
War II was the design for the Shamrock
Hotel in Houston. His company has de-
signed buildings throughout the South
and in several foreign countries. Mr. Hed-
rick was a member of the Roanoke Col-
lege Board of ‘Trustees.

1915

CHARLES ‘IT. Lite died on July 11, 1964,
in Clearwater, Florida. Mr. Lile retired
in 1957 as personnel manager for Koppers
Company, Inc., of Pittsburgh. While at
Washington and Lee he was end on the
football team, forward in basketball, and
pitcher on the baseball team. Mr. Lile
is survived by his wife, the former Nell
Carrington of Lexington, Virginia, and
a brother, RicHARD L. LILE, ’20.

At the time of his death Mr. Lile’s fam-
ily requested that in lieu of flowers in
his memory, gifts be made to a Charles
Taylor Lile Scholarship Fund at Wash-

ington and Lee.
1917

CLAUDE RENICK HiLtt of Oak Hill, West
Virginia, died on May 27, 1964. Mr. Hill
was president of the Merchants and Min-
ers National Bank of Oak Hill and presi-
dent of the Hill Realty Company. For
twenty-four years he served as mayor of
the city of Oak Hill, and his interest in
many civic and business activities made
him one of the most beloved and prom-
inent citizens of his community.

Jupcr JorL West F Loop, soldier, lawyer
and congressman, died on April 28, 1964.
Judge Flood made his home in Appomat-
tox, Virginia, where he began his law
practice in 1917 and where he _ later
served as Judge of the Fifth Judicial Cir-
cuit for twenty-four years. His legal train-
ing included study at Oxford University
and the Inns of Court, London. Follow-
ing service in World War I, he was Ap-
pomattox County commonwealth’s attor-
ney until 1932 when he filled an unex-
pired term in the House of Representa-
tives for Virginia’s tenth district. He was
selected Circuit Judge in 1940. Judge
Flood was prominently mentioned in 1956
for a seat on the Virginia Supreme Court

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Dr. Leslie Lyle Campbell, ’87

@ DR. LESLIE LYLE CAMPBELL, '87, died on June 9
at his home on Washington Street in Lexington.
He was the oldest of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity alumni, for on September 17 he would
have celebrated his 101st birthday.

A distinguished scholar and teacher, Dr.
Campbell remained throughout his lifetime a
devoted friend to his Alma Mater, vitally inter-
ested in its growth and progress.

He was himself a contributor to that progress,
for he established a memorial scholarship in
honor of his late wife, Catherine Houston Camp-
bell, to be awarded to a student of English lit-
erature whose home was in Rockbridge County
or in the Valley of Virginia. His will provides
for the establishment of another memorial
scholarship through a bequest of $25,000.

Dr. Campbell also gave to the University the
Westminster Chimes and clock in the Lee Chap-
el, honoring the memory of a classmate and
friend, Livingston Waddell Houston, who
drowned in the North River in 1886. Installed in
the Chapel in 1948, the chimes can toll the pas-
sage of every quarter hour.

A native of Campo Bello in Powhatan Coun-
ty, Dr. Campbell received the M.A. and Ph.D.
degrees at Washington and Lee, ranking him
among the very few persons ever to receive a
Ph.D. degree from the University. He was a
charter member of the University’s Phi Beta

Kappa Chapter, and he served as an assistant
professor of mathematics in 1889-91.

He later headed the department of physics at
Westminster College in Missouri, and for twenty-
six years he held a similar post at Simmons Col-
lege in Massachusetts.

In 1903 he was awarded the Austin Fellow-
ship at Harvard University, and as a physics in-
structor there he conducted extensive research,
publishing his findings in the proceedings of
the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He
also conducted research under Sir J. J. ‘Thomas
at Cambridge University in England and for the
United States Navy in World War I.

He held the rank of professor emeritus at
Simmons College, and until his death he still
considered himself an active research scientist,
studying the “Hall Effect” in metal crystals.

In failing health for many years, Dr. Camp-
bell was confined to his home, and despite a
great interest in the recent restoration of Lee
Chapel, he was never able to see the completed
project there.

President Cole and others of the University
staff were frequent callers at Dr. Campbell’s
home. He had no family and left no descendants.

For Washington and Lee, Dr. Campbell’s
death at 100 was the loss of another link from
the shortening chain that still connects today’s
University with its students of another century.

 

of Appeals, but he told his supporters he president of the Association of ‘Trial

was not interested because of his age.

1920

WILLIAM STANLEY SNYDER, JR., died sud-
denly on May 2, 1964, in Cumberland,
Maryland. Mr. Snyder was connected with
the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad.

1921

RoBERT MOORE HUTCHESON died on Janu-
ary 10, 1964. Mr. Hutcheson was a special
agent with the Virginia Insurance Rat-
ing Bureau.

1923

RALPH H. Ricarpo, died at his home at
Great Bridge, Virginia, on April 23, 1964.
For twenty-two years he had been judge
of the Norfolk County Court, and he was
the first vice-president of the Virginia
Council of Juvenile Judges and a_ past

SUMMER 1964

Justices of Virginia. Judge Ricardo was
known throughout Virginia for his work
in the rehabilitation of juvenile delin-
quents and was instrumental in the es-
tablishment of the Tidewater detention
home in Chesapeake.

1924

ALEXANNDER M. Crayton died on April
10, 1964. Mr. Crayton had been with the
South Carolina Employment Security
Commission in the employment and in-
surance division for twenty-five years. He
made his home in Greenville, South Caro-
lina.

1925

PRESTON COCKE MANNING, South Caro-
lina real estate commissioner, died at his
home in Columbia, South Carolina, on
April 21, 1964. He had served as com-
mandant of the Sewanee Military Acad-
emy before going to Columbia.

1927

SAMUEL A. McCaIn, former general coun-
sel and vice-president of the Corn Pro-
ducts Company, died on April 17, 1964.
Mr. McCain, a specialist in international
food law, joined Corn Products in 1942
and retired about a year ago, but con-
tinued as a consultant. As a Rhodes
scholar he attended Exeter College of Ox-
ford University and upon his return to
the States joined the law firm of Frank-
lin, Wright & Gordon and served as its
Washington representative from 1935 to
1937. Mr. McCain made his home in Riv-
erdale, New York, where he was a direct-
or of the Community Planning Associa-
tion. He was chairman of the food law
committees of the American Bar and
New York Bar Association. Mr. McCain
was an enthusiastic tennis player and a
former commodore of the Riverdale Yacht
Club. He belonged to the University and

53

Whitehall Clubs of New York and the
Metropolitan Club of Washington.

1929

RICHARD MUNROE IrBy died in Richmond,
Virginia, on April 25, 1964. Mr. Irby was
superintendent of Rockbridge County
(Va.) Schools until 1949 when he resigned
to become director of instruction in the
county schools. Previous to his coming
to Rockbridge County he had been com.
mandant of Randolph-Macon Academy.

1939

CLIFFORD J. YUDKOFF died on February 24,
1964, at his home in Englewood, New
Jersey.

1944

Joun M. McMurran died after a long ill-

ness on May g, 1964, in Newport News,
Virginia.
1948

FRANK J. DiLoreto died in New Britain,
Connecticut, on May 20, 1964, after a long
illness. He was the senior partner in his
law firm and Judge of the City and Police
Court of New Britain. As former chair-
man of the New Britain Board of Educa-
tion and one of the authors of the act
which created the State Commission on
Higher Education, he was prominent in
city and state activities. In 1955 Judge
DiLoreto was the Jaycees’ Man of the
Year, and he was scheduled to be named
Man of the Year in Education in New
Britain on the Sunday following his death.
He had served as State Senator since 1960.
‘The Governor of Connecticut termed the
death of the young legislator a “distinct
loss to the State,” and Judge DiLoreto’s

brilliance as a_ senator and _ attorney
brought tributes from his colleagues, for
he had devoted himself to public  ser-
vice and distinguished himself as an able
legislator, showing particular leadership
in the field of education.

1952

FREDERICK RAYMON SNYDER, JR., of North
Bergen, New Jersey, died on April 29,
1964. Raymond was a practicing attorney
in North Bergen. He received his law de-
gree from the University of Miami and
had studied for his law doctorate at Ox-
ford University, England.

1955

MILSON KEENAN CLARK of Port Chester,
New York, died on August 24, 1963. Mil-
son was an engineering assistant with
Dorr-Oliver, Incorporated.

 

Thomas H. Carter, ’54

m THOMAS H. CARTER, 754 died on November 21, In sum, their words recounted his distin-

54

1963, in Martinsville, Virginia, where he was
born and grew up and where he returned after
college to teach and inspire.

Because of events many hundreds of miles
away the next day in Dallas, ‘Tom Carter’s pass-
ing was overshadowed by the assassination of
John F. Kennedy. His friends remarked on the
coincidence of the two deaths—the untimely end
of two relatively youthful men, each with
achievement behind them and promise before
them, and each in their special way a “‘profile in
courage.”

In June of 1964 Martinsville High School
published a magazine called Tribute, and the
focus of this tribute was Thomas H. Carter. The
purpose of the new magazine was twofold, its
preface stated: to honor the memory of ‘Tom
Carter as a writer, critic, and teacher, and to
serve as model for a future literary publication
that would be a continuing acknowledgment
of his special contributions to the literary influ-
ence upon Martinsville High School students.

Literary friends of ‘T'om Carter’s wrote mov-
ing tributes to the young man who had dis-
tinguished himself as an editor, an author, and
a scholar. ‘The roster of those who paid tribute
to him is impressive: James G. Leyburn, Mar-
shall Fishwick, Carol Johnson, Hugh Kenner,
Ashley Brown, Brainard Cheney, Robie Mc-
Cauley, James Boatwright, Caroline Gordon,
Andrew Foley, Andrew Lytle, and Louis Rubin.

guished career as an undergraduate at Washing-
ton and Lee, how he helped by great persona]
eficiency and _ persuasiveness to establish the
University’s literary magazine, Shenandoah, as
one of the best of all “little magazines’ orig-
inating on American campuses. Hugh Kenner
wrote, ““Tom Carter was, quite simply, a man
with a gift, amounting to genius, for editing lit-
erary magazines...’ The tributes told of his per-
sonal charm, his talent for persuasive letter writ-
ing, that brought original contributions to Shen-
andoah from writers of unquestioned stature
such as Wyndham Lewis, Ezra Pound, Wallace
Stevens, William Faulkner, e. e. cummings, and
others. ‘They told of his own quick mind, his
gift of poetic expression and critical insight.
They told of a young man beset with disabling
physical afflictions who, despite failing health,
still managed to bring knowledge and under-
standing to his students in Martinsville, chal-
lenge and inspiration to his many literary asso-
clates.

A recent Kenyon Review Fellow in Criticism,
‘Tom Carter was at the time of his death compil-
ing a collection of material pertaining to the
poet Ezra Pound, and in addition to his duties at
Martinsville High School, he taught also at the
Patrick Henry Branch of the University of Vir-
ginia in Martinsville.

His death at 32 left a vacuum in literary ed-
ucation and in American letters.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

,

 

 

Appalachian Chapter alumni who greeted PresiwENt CoLe included, |-r, STEPHEN M. QUILLEN, ’57; JAMES W. HARMAN, JR., 44; JACK W.

NICKELS, 50; PRESIDENT COLE; ROBERT P. LONDON, JR., 27; and H. EMory WIDENER, ’53.

Chapter News

 

 

Above, ALBERT G. PEERY, ’32L, and FRED
C. PARKS, ‘21L; below left, JoHN W. NICK-
ELS, 50, and DONALD T. STANT, ’11; below
right, FRANK GOODPASTURE, JR., °43, and
W. HaAyeEs LANCASTER, ’46, talk with
JAMES W. WHITEHEAD (back to camera).

 

SUMMER 1964

 

APPALACHIAN

m= THE JOHNSON cCiTy Country Club
was the setting for a well-attended
meeting of the Appalachian Chap-
ter on May 1. A large number of
alumni and their wives welcomed
President and Mrs. Fred C. Cole.

At the banquet, William T. Mar-
fm 1t., $1, president of Sullins
College, introduced President Cole,
who made a report on the Univer-

 

sity. Presiding over the meeting
was chapter president, Robert P.
London, Jr., ’27, who presented
Mrs. Cole with a lovely coffee table,
a product of Johnson City, as a gift
from the chapter. The table was
given through the good offices of
Lewis Shumate, ’32.

Bill Washburn, alumni Secretary,
and James Whitehead, Assistant to
the President for Administration,
also attended the meeting.

 

CHARLOTTE

m PRESIDENT and Mrs. Fred C. Cole
were honored guests at the Char-
lotte chapter meeting on April
goth. ‘The annual spring occasion
was held at the Charlotte City Club
and was attended by a large num-
ber of alumni, not only from Char-
lotte but from neighboring cities in
South Carolina.

After a social hour the alumni
and their ladies were seated at an
elaborate banquet and heard a
splendid report from President
Cole. Harry Berry, ’49, president
of the chapter, presided over the
banquet, and Phillip Howerton,
'25, introduced President Cole.

James Whitehead, Assistant to
the President and Director of Uni-
versity Relations, also attended the
meeting along with Bill Washburn.

RICHMOND

@# ALUMNI OF THE Richmond chap-
ter met at the Rotunda Club on
June 17. In the business session
the following men were elected as
1964-65 chapter officers:

John F. Kay, Jr., ’51, president;
Walter J. McGraw, °55, vice-presi-
dent; J. William Doswell, °47, sec-
retary; and Mark W. Saurs, ’49,
treasurer.

Upon taking office, President
Kay, on behalf of the entire chap-
ter, expressed deep appreciation
to C. W. “Buck” Pinnell, ’46, for
his excellent leadership as_presi-
dent this past year. In the discus-
sion of future plans the chapter of-
ficers were directed to consider the
possibiuity of a chartered bus trip
for members of the chapter and
their wives to one of the home foot-
ball games in Lexington.

Plans were also made for the an-
nual luncheon given in honor of
the local freshmen entering Wash-
ington and Lee in September. ‘The
date for this luncheon is to be an-
nounced.

56

 

At Charlotte, above, is PHtLip F. HOWERTON, ’25, PRESIDENT COLE, HARRY A. BERRY, JR.,

51; and JOHN L. CrisT, JR., 45. Below left is the Rev. THomaAs B. RurF, ’11, Mrs, Rock-

WELL, and CoL. PAUL A. ROCKWELL, ’12. Below right is CLARENCE E. BALLENGER, JR., ’44,
and HARRY A. BERRY, JR., 51.

 

Top, Cleveland; seated, l-r, G. F. SCHUMACHER, ’56; C. P. LEININGER, ’57; S. P. MCCHESNFY,
"38; and J. R. LEMON, ’69; standing, H. T. MORELAND, ’37; D. A. FLORA, ’58; P. M.
WEINER, 63; H. R. GATES, JR., ’48; and C. F. CLARKE, ’38. Bottom, St. Louis: seated
W. A. IsAacs, ‘57; B. W. MILLER, ’49; D. M. BERTRAM, ’49; and H. D. McNew, ’36;
standing, R. ‘Tl. KELLEY, °35; R. L. NEUNREITER, 58; and J. L. PATTERSON, ’21.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mark your calendar—Now ! !!

HOMECOMING
November 7, 1964.

Washington and Lee’s Generals

VS.

Sewanee’s Tigers

(Unbeaten in 1963 and Defending Champions of the
College Athletic Conference.)

Better still—Come to all the 1964 Home Games!

Oct. 17—Susquehanna University

Oct. 24—Hampden-Sydney College

Oct. 31—Bridgewater College

Nov. 7—Sewanee (University of the South)

Nov. 21—Washington University (Missour1)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

with crest in five colors

 

‘This chair is made from northern birch and rock maple—hand-rubbed
in black with gold trim (arms finished in cherry). A perfect gift for
Christmas, birthday, anniversary or wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to

the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.
Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

: yee:
Lexington, Virginia

Price $30.50 f.o.b. Gardner, Massachusetts

Christmas orders must be received prior to November 21st.

 

 

 

