APRIL 1969

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON anp LEE
ALUMNUS

VOLUME 44 NUMBER 2

APRIL 1969

CONTENTS

1 Conversation with Philippe
6 CONTACT 1969

8 What Color is Flesh?

13 Campus News

22 Athletics

25 Development

28 Alumni

29 Class Notes

COVER

The University’s new athletic
director, Gene Corrigan, prom-
ises a vigorous and dynamic
approach to intercollegiate ath-
letics. See story on Page 17.

Editor:
William C. Washburn, ‘40

Managing Editor:
Romulus T. Weatherman

Associate Editor and Photographer:
A. Michael Philipps, ‘64

Editorial Assistant:
Mrs, Joyce Carter

Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.:

Fred Bartenstein. Jr., '41, President
Jack L. Crist, Jr., '45 Vice-President
William C. Washburn ‘40, Secretary

William C. Baker, ‘38, Treasurer

Board of Directors:
William C. Baker, ‘38
Fred Bartenstein, Jr., ‘41
Joe F. Bear, °33

Charles F. Clarke, Jt "38

d class eae rae red on
ond c stage a ee
= me nal ma

apenas ae ee . ling
e | a Roanoke, ‘ginia,
sablagtbn. D.C,

Your alumni magazine comes to you
this time with a new name, a new
look—and, we hope, with new life.
You will receive it more often—six
times a year instead of four. The
changes are obvious. With a little
background, the reasons for them will
be just as apparent.

First a quote from President Hunt-
ley: “I am convinced that one of our
greatest assets is the distinction our
alumni have brought to us... We ex-
pect to let you know how good you
are, and we expect to let you know
how good we are, and we expect to
do it rather frequently.”

The President addressed this state-
ment to a group of alumni in San
Antonio. But his words were for all
alumni. The fact is that the University
has not communicated broadly enough
in recent years with alumni. That
fault is now being corrected.

Last winter the Univeristy began
publishing a new quarterly magazine
for alumni, parents, and _ friends:
We&L: The Magazine of Washington
and Lee University. The first issue was
devoted to the inauguration of Presi-
dent Huntley; the second discussed
the questions of admissions at the Uni-
versity; the third will examine Wash-
ington and Lee’s athletic programs
and policies. The purpose of WeL
is to tell more fully the story of Wash-
ington and Lee and its people.

And it is a bonus. It is intended to
supplement and complement the
alumni magazine, now renamed the
Washington and Lee Alumnus and
changed in size and format to dis-
tinguish it from We&L. At the same
time, the Alumnus becomes a bonus
on top of a bonus. Alumni will re-
ceive WeL four times a year and
the Alumnus six times a year—10 pub-
lications instead of the previous four.

Further, the design of the Alumnus

has been stablized to give it a firm

identity. No longer will the editors
confuse readers by arbitrarily shifting
from one format to another. The
Alumnus will be primarily a vehicle

for conveying news about the Uni-
versity, its progress and development,
its alumni, and its students. It will
be organized into departments or
categories to help readers find con-
veniently what interests them most.
All the while, the editors will strive
to present the contents in an attractive
and readable form that will invite
readership of all items.

The editors do not presume that
they can capture in one magazine—
even in two magazines totaling 10
issues a year—the complete life of the
University. That life, essentially one
of the mind, is so deeply and intri-
cately woven into an ever-lengthening
human tapestry that it is impossible
to isolate and examine every thread.
And who would want it otherwise?
Washington and Lee extends back
into a proud history of solid ac-
complishment and thrusts forward
into a future of unlimited opportu-
nity in higher education. Its true
nature is embedded in all who have
served it and who have benefited and
who will benefit from its educational
mission. This nature cannot be re-
duced easily to mere words and pic-
tures. It is too vital, too precious:
beyond simple description.

What the Alumnus and its compan-
ion publication W&L can do is at-
tempt to present honestly and well
that fundamental information about
Washington and Lee and its people
that does lend itself to words and
pictures. This presentation will at
least enable readers to reach a fuller,
if not complete, understanding of the
essence of Washington and Lee: how
in the words of its Statement of Insti-
tutional Philosophy it is dedicating
“all its resources to the development
of man’s capacity and desire to learn,
to understand, and to pass on to others
the varied benefits of its intellectual
growth...in a climate of learning
that stresses the importance of the
individual, his personal honor and
integrity, his harmonious relationship
with his fellow man, and his responsi-
bility to serve society through the
productivity of this training and his
talent.”

If you like what we are doing—or
if you don’t—let us hear from you.

Meanwhile, happy reading.

—THE EpITORS

ae Eas

"

————

 

%
wee

A CONVERSATION
WITH FRENCH JOURNALIST
PHILIPPE LABRO

Philippe C.
Washington and Lee, studying journalism on a Fulbright
Scholarship. Since then he has become one of France's
most influential journalists and television commenta-
tors. He has worked as a reporter for “Europe No. 1,”
France’s largest privately owned radio station; as a rov-
ing reporter and columnist for France-Soir, the nation’s
largest evening newspaper; as co-producer of the most
outspoken news program on French television, “Camera
[rows.” He has written three books, the latest two deal-
ing with the riots in Paris in 1968. Now he is making a
movie,

In February he returned to WeL. at the invitation of
the officers of CONTACT to discuss the implications of
the Paris disturbances. At one point in his busy schedule,
he sat down and talked with journalism Professor O. W.
Reigel, Assistant to the President Frank A. Parsons, Di-
rector of Public Relations John Hughes, and Director

Labro spent two years (1954-1956) at

 

rPeATURE:1

 

Pa

.
* . i
\,
bh: Ribs Fea ES - a

at

\

 

Framed by junior David Field (left) and senior Reeve Kelsey, Labro answers questions about Paris student riots.

of Publications Rom Weatherman. The conversation
ranged from the changing hair styles of youth through
the evolution of Labro’s career (spiced by his sharp com-
ments on what he has experienced and observed) to what
his stay at W&L meant to him and his impressions of the
University today.

The conversation was taped. What follows are ex-
cerpts from the tape, with background and transitional
notes added by the editors:

[At first, M. Labro encountered difficulty landing a
job on a French newspaper, despite predictions at W&L
that he was destined “to rise to the heights of French
journalism.”]

LABRO: I didn’t want to be a student again. |
thought I had plenty here (at W&L), and anyway the
kind of life students led here was to me so beautiful and
wonderful compared to the kind of life led by students
in Paris. I didn’t want to go back into that kind of a
ghetto. You see, I wanted to do things and make money,
travel, and everything. So I made the rounds of the
papers for two months. They were not interested that I
was bilingual and could write. In France, they look down
on anybody who was go years old, and I was much too

 

2 FEATURE

young. Everybody threw me out, and some of them were
very gross—even the people at France-Soir. I was very
angry, and I said one day I will be in that building and
you will say, “Bonjour, Monsieur,” and you will be very
nice to me. And it happened a couple of years later.

[He took a public relations job briefly with the
United States Ship Lines Co., which “was very boring”’
and then he broke into radio.]

LABRO: By luck—it was really funny. While listen-
ing to Radio No. 1, I heard that they were doing a con-
test or show like ‘This is Your Life.’’ It was a very clever
show. They would get young people who wanted to be
journalists and put them on a stand with a jury of real
professional journalists—editors of different newspapers
and magazines. They would ask a million questions to
see if a contestant was reacting well. They would say,
“All right, you want to be a radio reporter. You are at
the airport and General DeGaulle is landing from a trip
in Nigeria, or something. You report it to us. Go ahead,
you are on the air.” It was very tough. And I won the
whole damn thing—quarter-finals, semi-finals, finals. ‘The
prize was a job in the newsroom of the radio station for
three months as a reporter, and if after three months they
liked what you did, you had a contract. And that’s what
happened. I go into the business through a contest.

[He stayed with Europe No. 1 for 18 months, and
then switched to a woman’s magazine and free-lancing
for newspapers. |

LABRO: I had the feeling that by doing too much
radio I was losing what I was really interested in, and
that is in writing. If you do too much radio, you acquire
a certain facility to talk, but you destroy the language,
and all the magic of writing is lost, and I thought I was
being corrupted in some sort of way. So I went with
a woman’s magazine, the equivalent of McCalls, or some-
thing like that on a smaller scale. It gave me time to
write that book about Al Capone, the life of an American
gangster.

[The book brought him to the attention of the pub-
lishers of France-Soir.]

LABRO: That was when I went to France-Soir, and
France-Soir hired me as a roving reporter, which meant
for a certain number of years I would cover any kind
of big events—weddings, murders, riots, revolutions.
Over the years it took me just about everywhere. I cov-
ered most of the European countries for many subjects
or reasons, also Africa, the Middle East, and America.

[He then spent two years in the French Army, an ob-
ligation he had to get behind him. His duty was not en-
tirely military. Although still in the service, he worked
as a reporter for a radio station in Algeria during the
fighting there. He was news editor and had his own pro-
gram. |

LABRO: It was fascinating because of the times and
the conditions. It was very dangerous. I had some very
hard times, but it was great in that I didn’t lose any
time. Not only that, I gained some time because I did
some TV and some radio, and I was right in the middle
of what, at the time, was history for France. I could
witness it, and I knew that some day I would use it in
a book or something. I was lucky to get out alive because
we were targets.

[He returned to his job at France-Soir and also be-
gan working in television with a monthly news program
similar to “CBS Reports.” This led to his being in the
United States at the time of the assassination of President
Kennedy. |

LABRO: One day they sent me to Connecticut to do
a story on average American life in a small state. And
I was interviewing a couple of students on the campus
of Yale when another student ran up to us with tears
in his eyes and said that Kennedy had just been shot.
I dropped the mike, the camera and everything, and said,
“You boys do whatever you want. Bye, bye, I’m off.”

[He called Paris and was instructed to go to Dallas.|

LABRO: I was in Dallas the next day, and that was
a big break, of course, because, you know, I was the first
French-speaking journalist on the spot—at least the first
for 24 to 48 hours. Secondly, in Dallas things happened
afterwards because I got there on Saturday morning, and
Oswald was shot on Sunday morning. Therefore, I saw
Oswald and met Ruby, and you know I had great stories,
and I made the front page of France-Soir for two weeks.
And, of course, that really gave me a very big break.

[He did extensive research on the Kennedy case and
read all 36 volumes of the Warren Report. He was sent
to New Orleans to cover the Garrison charges of con-
spiracy in the assassination. His opinion of the Kennedy
assassination has come the full circle.]

LABRO: It happens to every journalist, as you know,
that when you have been too much on one special story,
finally one day you get sick of it. You don’t even want to
hear about it anymore. The second thing is you don’t
want any more theories, because you know you can shuffle
the cards and play all the games. First, I thought Oswald
was guilty and alone. The second stage I thought he
was still guilty and not alone. Third stage I thought he
was completely not guilty, and there were four or six
other people involved. Then I got back to the first stage.
The opinion that I have now is that Oswald was involved
obviously. Period. That’s all I can say.

[He recently saw the famous Life magazine film of
the assassination and still has a residue of doubt.]

LABRO: When you see the film you begin to think,
well, indeed, he may have been shot from the front and

not from the back. That’s a gruesome film; it is horrible.
I think that we will never know, really. I think that is
a mystery. I have doubts, a fantastic amount of doubts.
The whole thing is very confusing.

(But he does not plan to write a book on it.]

LABRO: No, no. Oh God, there have been too many
books written about it. The only thing is that someday,
somehow, somewhere, I would like to put in a few re-
marks that have never been made about the story. You
know, the remarks about the panic that sprang around
Dealey Plaza when the shots started, the way the people
reacted, the very eerie feeling that you have around that
place. It is a sinister place, you know, and the feeling of
death that envelopes you because there has been a death
there. It is very subjective, but, of course, you can feel
something very ugly happened there, and it is an ugly
place.

(He said that Dallas is a city of contrasts—cultured in

some ways, crude in others—and moved to the subject of
Jacqueline Kennedy.]

LABRO: That’s why so many people have been
wrong about Jacqueline Kennedy—how gruesome and
ugly it was. No one seems to remember that the head of
that man exploded like a giant tomato...and splashed
all over the damn car and all over that woman. That's
the most horrible experience any human being can go
through. And I think that it accounts for what she did

 

PEATURE 23

afterwards. I understand and I agree with her that she
would want to keep her dress with blood on it because
she must have been so damn angry at the nation as a
whole, and she felt everybody was responsible for it.
And I understand also that she would get married to
Onnasis, because one day she would say, “I’m through
with this bloody atmosphere. Another one gets killed
four years later. I can’t take it anymore.” She wants to
leave the country. It’s not only leaving the Kennedy
tribe—I think she’s had it. I don’t even want to know if
she is intelligent, bright, or a brat, or a snob. I don’t
care. What I mean is what happened to her that day in
Dallas explains and justifies everything.

(The conversation shifted to his current work. |

LABRO: For about three years, I have been a col-
umnist for the Sunday edition of France-Soir. I have a
full page of my own, and my by-line, in which I write
whatever I want. And it is the best job any journalist
could dream of. It is perfect. You know, one day I can
do an interview with the foreign minister and the next
week I can write about the pop singers. Anything.

(He has taken a leave of absence from the column
to make a full-length motion picture which he has writ-
ten and will direct.]

LABRO: The film is like everything that I do. It is
very biographical. It is the story of a man who is about
my age and has the same job. He comes back to France

Labro talks with Professor O. W. Riegel, Frank Parsons, Rom Weatherman, and John Hughes, recounting past experiences

and projecting the future.

A FEATURE

and looks at France with a different approach, because
he has been away a long time and gets involved in a cer-
tain number of problems and adventures and so on, and,
at the end of all his trials, he starts to leave France
again. It is fictional, but I based it on a number of per-
sonal experiences and observations. It is also a way for
me to show the way I look at France.

[He explains that he has always been interested in
films, recalling that he was a movie critic for the Ring-
tum Phi at W&L. He said his movie is aimed at the
French market, but he hopes that it may also interest the
American market. He then talked about his future
career. |

LABRO: I don’t think I could take the life of a
movie maker, period. In other words, I don’t think I
can really get rid of journalism ever, because it’s part
of me. I like to write, and I think I will always keep
some sort of finger in that pie—not for financial reasons,
but just because every so often, I know I will have the
urge of flying to some place and write about it. But if
I could really limit my activities to writing a book every
so often and make a film, then journalism would become
a secondary activity. I would love that because I have
had 12 years of journalism, and I think that’s plenty.
If you stay too long in journalism, then you are a jour-
nalist all your life. I want to be a novelist, or a movie
director, or both. I think journalism is fine, but to me
it is just a training school for other creative activities. I
always refer to Hemngway. Hemingway started as a jour-
nalist and as a reporter. Well, he stated it very clearly—
and Fitzgerald did, too, and a number of other writers—
that journalism was fine, but if you kept on doing it too
much and too often, it would ruin your writing.

[He was asked about the influences of Washington
and Lee on his career and life.]

LABRO: This is going to sound very emphatic and
pompous. But I think I was born here in a way that the
adult that I am now was born here. I already knew I
wanted to be a writer, and I had already been writing
since I was 12 years old, but the influences I got here
really set me into the tracks I’m in now. In other words,
I am indebted to this school much more than any normal
college student can be, I think. It gave me just about
everything, and first of all, there was the tremendous in-
fluence of a couple of teachers like Pax Davis and Oscar
Riegel, who really shaped me. I don't know if I was
shaped, but I know they influenced me very deeply, not
only in writing and a way of looking at things and peo-
ple, but in behavior, in manners, in morals, in language—
everything. Then there was the influence of the American
life as a whole, I don’t behave like a Frenchman. I have

“I don’t know what I would be without Washington and Lee—
that’s for sure.”

a certain number of American qualities and mistakes. |
strive for a certain kind of efficiency. I hate incompe-
tence. I hate people who are slow. I lived for two years
in the United States while being still unprincipled. You
know, between 18 and go you are still being molded,
and I mean it finished molding me. It cut my life in two,
really—before America and Washington and Lee and
after Washington and Lee. It was a new experience. I
had to watch myself. I had to adapt myself to new con-
ditions—to be cautious and also audacious. Not that I
minded. When you send a young man who is mentally
a virgin into a different country, a big one and a huge
one with a different language and different behaviors,
well, you are bound to change him. Thank God, it
changed me; I think it improved the hell out of me. I
don’t know what I would be without Washington and
Lee—that’s for sure. And when I say Washington and
Lee, I mean it could be Ohio State, or anything. It’s the
experience and a couple of individuals who really were,
aside from my parents and a few professors at home, the
biggest influences in my life.

[It was noted that Labro, in many respects, partook
of the life at Washington and Lee to a greater extent
than many students do.]

LABRO: Oh, yes. Purposely I did it. I have a very
ambitious, hard-driving, and energetic kind of nature.
But then I think I could get away with many things
that the other students couldn’t because of my status.

 

I mean I was forgiven things, I am sure, because I was
a French foreign student. The same year I would take
a senior course and a freshman course, and I could take
almost any course I wanted because I never graduated
from here, so I didn’t have to take prerequisite courses.
I would touch every kind of strings, and it was fascinat-
ing. I mean working on the Ring-tum Phi to me was
fascinating; it was fun. I loved it.

[He explained that he did not regard the relative
isolation of Lexington as a limiting factor, although he
understands that it might have been different at, say,
Berkeley in California.]

LABRO: No, maybe I would now. But I didn’t pick
Lexington. One day in Paris, I got a letter saying you
are invited to spend a year at Washington and Lee—fine.
No, what I mean is that I think that I adapted myself
to Lexington and to Washington and Lee as much as
I would have adapted myself to another place because
I think I have this quality of adapting myself easily to
different kinds of environments, and I never looked at
Lexington as being backwards or anything. It just was,
and is, a very small town. This is a very small college, and
it is very secluded and preserved from the rest of the
world and even from the rest of America, but it didn’t
bother me.

[As to changes, he noted that Reid Hall, the journal-
ism building, had been greatly improved, but he said
his visit had been to brief to observe the significant
changes. ]

LABRO: I haven't been here too long, and I haven't
been able to talk to many people, but I have the feel-
ing—it may be false—that it hasn’t changed much. I don’t
feel the students have changed much. I think they are
just about the same type of students, and they have about
the same manners and the same outlook on life. I may
be completely wrong, but they seem to me to be nice,
well-to-do sons of well-to-do families—I mean the average
gentleman-like kind of boys, rather open minded, I think,
and rather intelligent.

[He then acknowledged that change must have oc-
curred because of differences in the times. ]

LABRO: The thing is, I lived at Washington and
Lee during what most people called the Eisenhower
years, which were very dreary, sleepy, undisturbed kind
of years. Now we are living through undreary, disturbed
years. But I don’t find this feeling here which I have
found on other campuses. What is called the campus
explosion, I don’t observe it here. I may be wrong. I
must be wrong. There must be a difference. The genera-
“ons are not the same. They don’t like the same books;
they don’t like the same music; they don’t have the same
sexual, social, political habits or experiences. It is ob-
vious they are different, but at first glance they are not.

rPEATURE:S

 

Labro (above) speaks before CONTACT audience in Lee Chapel,
then renews friendship with Mr. and Mrs. Edward Backus.

 

SPFEATURE

iam ||
ebime ee
Wi %

————————

CONTACT 1969:
A STUDY OF POWER

“Power” was the topic for this year’s
CONTACT symposium, held Febru-
ary 4-8. In its fifth year, the Interfra-
ternity Council-sponsored public af-
fairs event consisted of public addres-
ses and informal seminars by six men
prominent in fields of contemporary
affairs, headed by Sen. George Mc-
Govern.

A black activist, Jack ‘Thomas,
opened CONTACT with his view-
point of Black Power. Thomas is a
senior at Lincoln University and has
worked in the Black Power movement
in the Philadelphia area for some
time.

Thomas asserted that the final goal
in his efforts was complete integration,
“but not now.” He contended that all
non-blacks are essentially racist. Fur-
ther he expressed that American so-
ciety in general was sick, and there-
fore it was inappropriate for the
blacks to take on its ideals and values.
Thomas advocated a temporary sep-
eratism during which the blacks could
create their own thing, and the non-
blacks could do some soul-searching
that would result in large alterations
in society.

Thomas did not condone violent
means for his end, but did not exclude

violence as an alternative if all else
failed. He also stated that he would
advocate a separate black state only
under the most extreme imaginable
circumstances.

A former Fulbright foreign ex-
change student at Washington and
Lee (1954-56) was CONTACT’s sec-
ond speaker. Philippe Labro, now one
of France’s most prominent newsmen
both on television and in the written
medium, spoke on the French revolts
of May, 1968.

Labro contended that the effects of
the unrest were profound and have
not been fully felt yet. What seeming-
ly began as a student protest and pow-
er movement had highly drastic effects
on French society in general.

Why this is, Labro asserted, is that
the unrest was not merely a student
complaint of academic conditions in
France but a group of people's voci-
ferously questioning the whole of
modern civilization, and in doing so
shaking its foundations.

Thus the seemingly solid DeGaulle
regime was brought to its knees. The
irony was that the students and their
allies had the opportunity to fill the
power vacuum they created, but in
general did not. Where they did take
power momentarily, they either fum-
bled or reverted back to old forms.
The net immediate gain was little,

 

but Labro contended that the cur-
rent structure has been incurably
weakened.

Nuclear physicist Dr. Ralph Lapp
spoke next on science in the area of
political power. A long time critic in
this area, Lapp is the author of Kill
and Overkill, The New Priesthood
and The Weapons Culture, all dealing
with an aspect of this subject.

Lapp warned of public and govern-
ment infatuation with the technolog-
ical military-industrial complex and
its sophisticated hardware.

In specific, the visiting scientist
faulted the Apollo program as more
ballyhoo than knowledge-gaining. He
further asserted that whatever the
manned flights accomplished could
have been accomplished by unman-
ned instruments at much less cost and
without the great risks.

The proposed Sentinel ABM also
drew fire from Dr. Lapp. He contend-
ed that the “thin line’? ABM was in-
effective and actually increased the
chance of nuclear war. Further, he as-
serted that the “thin line’’ was just a
stepping stone to the “thick line” sys-
tem, a system whose price would be
astronomical. Lapp stated that a
“thick line’ defense to be effective,
if it could, indeed, be effective, would
include a vast network of fallout shel-
ters and other apparatus whose net
effect would be a paramilitary state.

The fourth speaker was economist
Dr. Walter Adams of Michigan State
University. A prolific contributor to
the literature of his discipline, Dr.
Adams has also served several congres-
sional committees as a consultant or
witness. He also is a member of the
Advisory Commission on Internation-
al Educational and Cultural Studies
and led an evaluative study of college
study abroad programs.

Dr. Adams chose to discuss dang-
ers inhenent in the current business
trend toward conglomerate mergers.
He contended that in general such
mergers did not add to efficiency of
the operations of the given compan-
ies and only tended to concentrate
more financial power in fewer hands.

The effect, he said, is to abort the
free market in more subtle, but just

Nuclear physicist Dr. Ralph Lapp hit Apollo,
ABM system, and military infatuation.

as effective, ways than through mo-
nopolistic practices. For one example,
Adams asserted that a conglomerate
has been used to back up one com-
pany division while it operated at a
loss due to underpricing in order to
strangle less financially stable compet-
itors.

Adams expressed the belief that any
infringement on the open market is
an infringement upon personal rights.
He stated that those engaged in busi-
ness should be economic animals
geared to maximize effeciency and
profits. Law, however, has the obliga-
tion to perpetuate the maximum open
market so that economic power ulti-
mately lies in the hands of the indi-
vidual consumer.

The economist professed to Jeffer-
sonian leanings concerning Big Gov-
ernment. He voiced just as deep con-
cern for the threat of Big Business.
Adams urged guards against the pos:
sibility of an economic oligarchy. He
saw the trend toward conglomerates
as a trend toward the creation of a
state within a state.

Dr. John R. Silber, dean of the
College of Arts and Sciences, at the
University of Texas was CONTACT’s
filth speaker. Dean Silber is a_phi-
losopher by academic profession, but
also possesses formal training in music,
theology, and law. He is a noted ad-
vocate of increased student power on
campuses.

Dr. Silber in his address expressed
his support for more student partici-
pation in the conduct of university af-
fairs on a reasoned basis.

However, he saw in the most radical
movements of late elements destruc-
tion for destructions’ sake and evi-
dence of a nationwide conspiracy.

Silber attacked the current student
radical movement as users of “bad
rhetoric” and as deficient in any hu-
mane outlook or of a sense of history.
He more specifically charged that the
French philosopher Marcuse, the radi-
cals’ spiritual leader as Silber sees
him, is a bad philosopher and given
(Oo unsupported judgments and gen-
erally unrigorous thought.

Sen. George McGovern ended the
CONTACT symposium on a some-
what ironic note. While the theme of
CONTACT Was power and its nature,
sen. McGovern talked of the limits

PEATURE:7

 

Dr. John Silber (above) expressed views on campus disorder, and Sen. George McGovern

favored limiting American sphere of influence.

 

of power, of the discovery of our pow-
erlessness in many areas.

The limits, Sen. McGovern asserted,
are the lack of likemindedness in the
world as exampled in Vietnam.

Sen. McGovern traced our failure
in that country to our failure to com-

prehend that the values and hopes of

it are not that the American
Dream is not the universal dream. Ad-
ditionally, he said, we have miscom-
prehended the opposition, that the
struggle is not democracy with com-
munism, the good against the evil.

ours,

We further assumed, wrongly, that
they would reason as we reason and
would succumb to obviously superior

force. America’s idealism that it is
the last and best hope in the world has
led it into areas where communica-
tion, in American terms, was impos-
sible and which no amount of power
could overcome.

Editors Note: Michael K. Nation, a senior
from Knightstown, Ind., prepared the above
resume of CONTACT 1069. Mr. Nation was

vice-chairman of the symposium,

3 PEATURE

Ray Prohaska, instructor in fine arts and artitst-in-
residence since 1964, is a large, robust man, obviously
enjoying his life as an artist and teacher. A native of
Yugoslavia, his studio art classes are always filled to
capacity, and it is not uncommon to find other faculty
members and townspeople standing before an easel
and learning to paint from Ray.

It is sheer pleasure to talk to him. Standing there in
his familiar plaid shirt and bow tie, he can either tell
you all about Picasso or what kind of plug is best for
lunker bass. And he moves all the time, dabbing in this
or messing around with that. He always has something
going on.

He will leave at the end of the current semester to
take a similar position with Wake Forest College. Before
he got away, the editors went down to duPont, tape
recorder and camera in hand, to catch him at his best—
lecturing and painting before a beginners class at the
start of the second semester.

What follows are Prohaska’s comments during that
session, as he painted Mrs. Helen Hodges, wife of
religion professor Dr. Louis Hodges.

WHAT COLOR IS FLESH?
FLESH IS ANY COLOR

I will start today using the alla prima technique,
and drawing with a brush. Right now, I’m going to pre-
pare my palette, and I won't make any remarks for a
couple of minutes. I will use cerulean blue, ultramarine
blue, raw umber, ivory black, naples yellow, if I have
it, mars yellow, cadmium red, light, cadmium yellow,
light, which I may or may not use. Now white—Grum-
bacher’s titanium white—which is slow drying. And you
will notice I squeeze out a great amount of color,
particularly white. Turpentine is the only medium that
I will use. Two cans of turpentine—one for painting, the
other for washing the brush.

Now you will notice I posed Mrs. Hodges against
a white sheet for a specific purpose. I like her skin tex-
ture. It is very delicate, and I like the color of skin
against a white background. It shows the clarity of

skin color. That blue blouse, for instance, a very beauti- > ae
ful pale blue against white. I take tremendous liberties ‘ [cane “
ae es Py

- ; A
Tree at if toe
ha yl RVte
ie at ,

aos) u + rs , ye
se Ws
i a
| s ; / ,
-

with color and will probably change her slacks to brown
or blue or something else; anything to give me the unity
I require for my painting. I don’t copy what I see. I
merely use the forms here more or less in an abstract
way. I see her as a series of statements, geometric forms,
and all, and I really don’t get down to analyzing her

 

character or trying to paint her personality until almost
to the point where everything is getting to be recogniz-
able as such. I sometimes destroy a painting completely
when I am almost finished with it. So don’t be too
surprised if I do decide to make something else out of
it. I often do that. So what I’m interested in more
than anything else here is not to show you how clever
I am or what a great portrait painter I am or that I
can paint people. I am interested in having you learn
something about color, about the application of color,
how to observe, how to see, how to select from the model.
Now that is the important thing.

I will start with a color made of ultramarine blue
and raw umber, very soupy, and look for some sort of a
line. That’s a pretty good line.

Well, that is sort of a calligraphic statement, purely
a gesture, my own personal selection from the model.
That doesn’t necessarily mean that this will remain,
this won't, this will be completely painted over. It is
the kind of drawing that I prefer to start with, rather
than merely copy or make a more realistic kind of draw-
ing. In other words, it gives me a very flexible beginning,
you understand? It gives me room for movement, for
moving, for various kinds of experimentation in direc-
tion, and then I repeat, in as much as this is the kind
of demonstration it is. If I were painting a_ portrait
for a group of academic people who only understand
reality for reality’s sake, 1 would do it in an entirely
different way. But for you boys who have been trained
by me, I think you will understand what I’m digging
for. I think you will dig what I’m trying to say.

Now for a kind of evaluation of what is going on
here. There is a very pretty blue which I like. You will
see how this drawing will change. Everything will change
so completely as I go along. I lengthen things. I paint
the value of the color, the black and white value of
it, rather than the color I see. In other words, if I see
a dark color, it doesn’t make much difference to me
whether I paint it dark brown or dark blue. You’ve had
this in this class, so you know what I’m talking about.
It is the value that is important. Because the slacks are
black doesn’t mean a thing. What's very important
is that when I finish here, I'll have some sort of unity
of color as well as in design in the portrait. That's the
important thing. Also, if I make a redhead of her that
is also my doing. In fact I think she would look pretty
good as a redhead.

For the flesh tone, which will be just kind of a
rough estimate. I’m going to use a rather coolish color.
All painters are opportunists, so I will take every op-
portunity that I can. For instance, a color like that comes

An pipers fisherman, Prohaska (left) answers questions before
applying fresh batch of paint to brush (right).

PEATURE SD

in handy. Two accents of that color. It is not important
where the color belongs, whether it belongs on a chair
or elsewhere. I may not even put her legs on the chair...
the color is important.

All right, now, we're coming along fine. Now you
see I have four different color ranges of pale blue and
blue green on the blouse. As I say, that may change,
but for the time being I react to that. There are very
definite changes as the light hits the blouse. They are
not variations of light blue to me; they are variations
of various blues. You know, many people would ques-
tion that, but I am the one who is seeing this, and I
am the one painting it, and that is what’s important.
This same blue, I think I have shown you this technique
of mine of using blue, this same pale blue I mix a little
warm color in it and it makes a very good basis for the
light side of the flesh... for the time being. Just the
addition of a little ochre and that gives you a cool flesh
tone without getting too local about it.

Every once in a while, I have taken a class of women
painters, no reflection on you girls who are professionals,
a class of women painters who are beginners, and the
first thing they will ask is what color is flesh? Now that
is sort of a stock question. Flesh is any color. Any color
that belongs to the environment of the painting. If you
are making a red painting, flesh can be almost green.
There isn’t any such thing as a flesh color. I usually
make a statement to students that when flesh dies, it
turns a horrible gray-green. Like when gangrene sets
in. I remember photographing a peasant in Yugoslavia.
I did it in color and black and white. She had her
hands crossed, and she was the most beautiful old lady
I had ever seen. She was about 87 years old, a Croatian
peasant with her peasant costume on, and her skin was
the most beautiful grey, slab grey color. The undertaker

 

1O.FEATURE

had just rubbed a little pink in her cheeks, and I thought
that there was something macabre and yet beautiful
about it. I did a beautiful photograph of her. The colors
were exciting. It is a ghoulish thing to say, but it is
true. Very true.

Now I will start a second stage of drawing into what
I have here, in as much as I already have color on the
canvas. I can’t use that delicate line of blue-green, so
I will do this and look for other lineal arrangements
here. This is a sort of a secondary stage in the drawing.
I know I will run out of brushes in a minute; I didn’t
bring enough. I am going to introduce a little color in
the background...wrong color. I used the same sort
of bluish undertone here, for the flesh tone, but with a
little pink added. I think it needs a little more red.

Then I change that to a little greenish cast, a warm
greenish cast to the upper part of the lip, which gives
it a little lift. OK? Then back to cool color, here, for
the shadow part in here...under the eyes.

Now there is one particular thing to notice, and that
is this. That is how wonderful painting is, the wonder
and magic of painting...that practically all of these
dabs I’m putting on are in themselves kind of a mosaic
pattern, completely abstract, right? You see them ab-
stractly, but they build to a reality as they are held
together, and being placed alongside each other is
creating a kind of magic. This is why this kind of
painting is so much more fun and so different from the
usual academic painting, where the artist copies the
light and shade of a subject and tries to emulate nature
as much as possible. It is impossible to create a living
person, right? Impossible. Therefore, everything, you do
is an imitation of the living person, so you might as
well have fun with form and symbolism. Explore the
possibilities of the magic of color, what color can do.

I have gotten in the habit of drawing big hands, and
she has such delicate fine bones and such nice hands
that I haven’t done justice to the grace and beauty of
her hands. But I am going to leave them, anyway. |
don’t know where I got that. I used to draw fishermen
a lot. Fishermen have such big hands. I always admired
Picasso’s hands—they all look big and monstrous, like
they could do things. Big. Monstrous. Better to hold
things with, right? Now I’m going to explore the pos-
sibilities for more refinement. I’m going to give Mrs.
Hodges a little rest and have her get off the podium
a minute.

You have all had very good lessons in the use of
color and color values. Now you see the way I’m using
color here. Actually it doesn’t make much difference
whether I use blue, brown, red or what, as long as the
value is right. If it is dark enough to decribe this mass,
it can be any color. It doesn’t really make much differ-

ence what color it is. The more color you introduce
around the canvas—that is, you repeat a little red here,
there, blue here, bluc there, all around, keeping the
color moving—the more unity you have to a painting.
This is one of the great ideas that Cezanne conveyed
in his painting, his freedom in the use of color, color
for the sheer sake of color beauty, rather than trying
to imitate life. He used color to express his form. And
everywhere in Cezanne, you see the influence of geo-
metric forms in the structure of his paintings. He be-
lieved that all the forms in nature could be reduced
to geometrical shapes—the cube, the cone, and the sphere.
The geometric elements in all phases of life, in land-
scape, in human forms, or in the organization of many
forms, whether they be landscape or human forms, was
the great lesson that Cezanne passed on to all painters
and people who like to paint.

I’m killing this color because I think it was beginning
to be too strong. It did not recede enough for me.

Here, I’m doing a little further selecting of value.
I notice that when she sat down again, there were new,
interesting wrinkles in her blouse not there before. ‘The
wonderful thing about working from a model is that
she moves, and when she moves, she creates new problems
which make it more interesting. Otherwise, we could
use wax figures or a dummy. There are some very
beautiful effects now, much better than there were
before. Too bright. Too bright. That’s a little better.
There is definitely a color change in here because the
blue gets a little monotonous. So I use a little green
and see what that does for me. It does a lot!

Mrs. Hodges will be posing for us for a week, and
you can start in oils or in water-colors or you can do
collage or you can use acrylic or you can experiment
and do any kind of a painting, using her as a basis.
You are on your own initiative from now on and what
you do will be your own thing. I just talked to Chris
Meyer, who is going to do things with cut-out wood—
collage, pieces of wood, which I think sounds rather
exciting.

A rose is a rose is a rose, as Gertrude Stein once said.
I’m not too pleased with this in here, so I think there is
going to be a big change. A rose was a rose! I didn’t think
that arm was down far enough, so I moved it down,
and I think in moving it down it helped this whole
pattern here. If you use a loaded brush that has a lot
of color on it, a little bit on the side, sometimes you
can cover an area that has already been painted into
much better than you can if’ you paint with the point
of it. That is, you work this way...

At this point, I sometimes go into using some char-
coal. It doesn’t sound as though you could possibly use
charcoal over wet oils, but something kind of interest-
ing happens. It is sort of a line and a depression into
the wet color. I will show you what I mean. I am doing
more to show you how a line can describe a fold much

=

 

Prohaska develops a particular point...

better than all of the modeling in the world. I mean
like the flow of the blouse, for instance. The finger is
also a very good brush, incidentally. Sometimes it does
things a brush can’t do. Mrs. Hodges has very fine
structure to her head, therefore lovely to paint. Her
eyes have a rather pale liquid quality, so I will try to
get that.

I am going to emphasize that rose. I don’t have the
exact red that I want, but I will try it with the red
I do have here, which might work. It is cadmium red,
medium. A pretty good color. Now that cadmium red,
medium, just in that one place kind of disturbs me,
so I am going to have to do a little magic here with
color, and introduce it here and there in other places
for the sake of unity. I didn’t give her enough knee.
That’s bad isn’t it, not to give her enough knee. Much
more. Much more.

The painting has now reached the point where I
have made certain statements I wanted to make, and I
could stop at this point, but I am just curious to see
what I can do to develop some values beyond this. I
may ruin it, but it is always worth the gamble.

There is still something that troubles me. It’s always
a lot of fun to destroy something. Make’s a good thing.
That’s a better skin tone. You never know what the
proper skin tone is. Something that you have to experi-
ment with and try. All right now, I blew it again. I’m
on schedule, anyway, so that’s something. The hand still
gives me a little trouble there—I don’t think that it
is long enough yet. Try it again, though, scrub it out
again. I love to scrub. This time we do it.

 

reATURE TH

 

... before an attentive audience.

You know we are used to seeing reproductions of
big paintings like Rubens and Delacroix and many
of the old masters. Rubens, in particular. Huge paint-
ings, 12 or 14 feet high. You have to see the originals to
really see that Rubens was a master at taking a big
brush like that and doing what I did here. I’m _ not
trying to compare myself to Rubens, but I say he was
superb at painting a gesture of a hand and doing it
with two or three brush strokes and just leaving it.
When it took its place on this tremendous canvas with
all of the other pieces of mosaic, when it was all put
together, you realize how beautifully and briefly this
was painted, stated with almost one single sweep of a
brush. ‘This is something to learn when you see the
paintings. Beautiful gestures in painting, with great
economy of color and effort. This takes real genius. We
are so used to reproductions that do not show us the
brushwork adequately. If any of you get the chance to
get to Paris next summer, go to the Louvre.

I’m changing this whole hand because it doesn’t
please me at all.

I’m getting to be a master of opening tubes with one
hand here, one finger.

Well, now we will re-do that hand and see what hap-
pens. Relax your left hand dear, just like that. Very love-
ly. You have been a wonderful model, and I want to
thank you.

You've got to talk to material, sometimes it helps. I
know a painter who grunts when he paints. He makes
the funniest grunting noises. Something I didn’t know.
My wife said, “Do you know that you whistle practically
all during class?” Is that so? Do I whistle? I didn’t know
I whistled.

 

12; FEATURE

All right now, we are coming along. Won't be long
now. The back of that chair does very funny things to
the hand. Like it cuts across here like that. And then
there is this hole here, and the thumb which does that
gets a nice gesture, and then the arm goes back in there.
Pretty hard to describe and it doesn’t seem to come off,
but I don’t think I’ll worry too much about it. Green,
ereen. Red, red.

Have you made a picture of this lately, Mickey? Do
you want to do one now? I think it is about ready. Have
you been getting shots of her? ‘Take one up close of her.
I would like one from just about the same position. ‘Take
two or three if you like.

I feel that I have said everything that I wanted to
say. It has been quite successful for that reason. If you
aren’t too critical of likeness quality and things like that,
I think it is a successful painting as a painting. I know
that I have had many talks with Alexander Brook, an
exquisite painter who is probably one of the best por-
traitists in America who does not make slick portraits.
Probably one of his most outstanding portraits is one
of Katherine Hepburn, because Katherine Hepburn is a
personal friend and he had great joy in doing it. It is a
beautiful portrait, and it is not a slick portrait. It is a
magnificent painting, plus a portrait—a personal state-
ment of a person, not photo-realistic. The camera can lie,
believe me, a lot more than the painter can. Camera por-
traits can be dreadful falsehoods of the person who is
being photographed. Many portrait photographers re-
touch the finished portraits, sometimes skillfully. How-
ever, when they alter the features to the point where they
remove important wrinkles, they destroy character. I had
such a photograph to work from when I had a commis-
sion to paint a deceased colonel who was a very distin-
guished looking man. Some retoucher, and retouchers are
a low breed on the totem pole of artists, had retouched
every interesting wrinkle out of the colonel’s face so that
he looked like something out of Madame ‘Tussaud’s wax
works. The darkness under the eyes was removed, the
jowls were retouched out. Horrible. I had to try to put
them back in . But the family thought that this was a
good portrait of him. He must have been a rather in-
teresting man. A gallant gentlemen. But as I say, I did
my best. Alex Brook has a philosophy about portrait
painting, which is wonderful. When he paints a portrait,
no. 1 it has to be a good painting. If it isn’t a good paint-
ing, even though it is the greatest likeness in the world
and the sitter loves it, he will not let him take it. He can't
have it. On the other hand, if he paints and makes a great
painting and it is not a likeness that pleases the sitter
and he wants it changed, Alex says, uh-uh. He never

Nearly finished, Prohaska adds last minute touches to
abstract portrait.

changes anything. He reserves the right to keep it, and_

usually sells it as a painting. I think that is a very good
philosophy. It works for Alex Brook. Not all portrait
painters are like that. Some painters will flatter you and
put roses in your cheeks and give you blue eyes, if you
want them, even though yours may be brown. They just
don’t care—they are commercial. So I don’t ‘think too
much of portrait painting as an art. They are kind of
like shoemakers.

Well, that shoemaker comment reminds me that my
father was a shoemaker. He was a good shoemaker. A
bootmaker. That’s something to be a good shoemaker.

I will close, and I hope that you have learned some-
thing. One of the things I hope you will remember, re-
member the freedom in which I painted this and re-
member the invention that I employed in doing it. I
don’t care how abstract you go with the figure. I know
some abstract painters who keep a model around the stu-
dio constantly. They will do blocks, but they keep the
model. It is an inspiration. That’s a bad word. It moti-
vates them. That’s a better word. Don’t be afraid, do
anything you want to do. These comments are very im-
portant at this time. You have come a long way in one
semester and I think we have covered a lot of ground.

‘Thank you.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DOREMUS TO BE
$2.9 MILLION BIGGER

The University has announced
plans to build a $2.2 million addition
to Doremus Gymnasium and to con-
struct a separate $500,000 field house
in the vicinity of Wilson Field and
its surrounding outdoor practice
fields.

A joint announcement by Dr. Hus-
ton St. Clair, rector of Washington
and Lee’s Board of Trustees, and Pres-
ident Robert E. R. Huntley described
the athletic facilities planning as a
“significant first step toward solution
of several pressing requirements in re-
gard to an adequate physical plant.”

_No target date for start or comple-
tion was announced for the gymnas-
lum addition or field house, but Dr.
St. Clair said the trustees have direct-
ed that planning, fund-raising, and
construction be carried out in ‘‘the
MOst aggressive and expeditious man-
mer.”

President Huntley said important
progress already has been made in
planning and fund-raising for the pro-
Ject.

“We have more than $650,000 in
gifts and commitments at this moment
toward our athletic facilities, and I
am optimistic and confident that by
the time we are ready to start con-

struction the funds will be in hand

or in sight,” he said.

The University expects to fund the
athletic projects through gifts from
alumni and other friends of the
school, President Huntley said.

The planned addition to Doremus
Gymnasium would more than double
the existing floor space in the build-
ing which has served Washington and
Lee for more than half a century.

The new wing, which would con-
nect at the back of the present three-
level structure and extend into exist-
ing parking areas, will consist of five
levels.

Among its features will be a new
basketball arena, providing capabili-
ties for two full-size courts for physi-
cal education instruction and_prac-
tice, and adaptable to a third court
with collapsible seating for 2,600
spectators at intercollegiate events.

The new facility will have a six-
lane, 25-yard swimming pool, 10 hand-
ball and squash courts, instruction
and practice areas for wrestling and
gymnastics, special training and exer-
cise rooms, dressing rooms, laundry
and locker facilities, and some faculty
offices.

Doremus Gymnasium will be re-
modeled to provide more adequate
faculty offices and physical education
classrooms. The existing basketball
court and swimming pool will be re-

CAMPUS.13

tained for physical education and rec-
reational use.

‘The separate field house facility
will provide approximately 60,000
square feet for physical education in-
struction and indoor practice of out-
door sports during inclement weath-
er. Uhe facility is expected: to be a
relatively inexpensive shell-type struc-
ture with facilities for hmited instruc-
tion in such sports as baseball, track
and field, lacrosse, soccer, golf, and
tennis.

‘The field house is expected to house
locker and dressing facilities for physi-
cal education classes and_ athletic
teams participating in outdoor sports.

DEBATERS HEAD TO
TITLE TALK: FOR
FOURTH YEAR

Debaters Tim Wright and John
Reynolds have qualified to represent
the University at the fourth annual
Debate ‘Tournament of the Cham-
pions to be held at Michigan State
University in early April.

Sophomore Wright and freshman
Reynolds, by reaching the semi-final
round of the William & Mary tourna-
ment held earlier this year, automat-
ically were chosen for the Champions’
tourney.

The Wright-Reynolds team, coach-
ed by English professor William Chaf-
fin, have been a hot pair in the de-
bate season. They were the first team
in the University’s history to reach
the elimination rounds of the Dart-
mouth College tournament, which
includes the top 100 schools in the
nation.

It is the fourth time that Washing-
ton and Lee has sent a team to the De-
bate Tournament of Champions.

BOYS CLUB
BENEFICARY OF
UNIVERSITY Garr

The Lexington Boys’ Club, a pri-
vately supported local program for
underprivileged boys, is the special
beneficiary of public-service contribu-
tions by the University and many of
its students.

Washington and Lee has made a
contribution to the club to help furn-

14: CAMPUS

ish and equip a reading room in the
Boys’ Club building. At the same
time, an increasing number of fra-
ternity men are working as volunteers
with the boys during the afternoons,
helping them with remedial reading,
supervising study, and directing rec-
reational activities.

In December, the Young Republi-
can Club of the School of Law pre-
sented a television set to the club
at a Christmas party.

Washington and Lee in_ recent
months has become increasingly in-
volved in public-service activity in
Lexington. Last summer, the Univer-
sity opened its athletic facilities, in-
cluding its swimming pool and tennis
courts, to participants in the city’s
recreation program. The facilities
were used extensively by persons who
otherwise would have had no place
to swim or play.

University officials noted that the
Boys’ Club is rendering in Lexing-
ton services of the kind ordinarily as-
sociated with densely populated ur-
ban areas. Many urban-based univer-
sities are playing important roles in
such programs, and Washington and
Lee looks upon its help of the Lex-
ington Boys’ Club as comparable
community service.

HINKLE ELECTED
VALEDICTORIAN
WITH ALL-A’s

Samuel D. Hinkle IV, a Kentuck-
ian who has made all A’s for three-
and-a-half years, has been elected
valedictorian of the 1969 graduating
class.

Hinkle has a perfect 4.000 grade
average, with 33 A’s and three P’s in
pass-fail courses. An economics major
he is from Shelbyville.

He needed the perfect record to
edge two classmates as valedictorian:
M. Lee Halford Jr., a business ad-
ministration major from Richardson,
Tex. with a 3.936 average, and Wil-
liam M. Christie Jr. of Germantown,
Md., who is majoring in Greek and
has a 3.935 mark.

In most years, either of those aver-
ages would have been more than
enough to rank on top. The student
with the highest grade average for his
first seven semesters is traditionally

chosen as valedictorian by the Uni-
versity faculty.

Hinkle was elected to both Phi
Beta Kappa honorary fraternity for
scholarship and Omicron Delta Kappa
national leadership society in _ his
junior year. He is serving this year as
vice president of ODK.

An athlete as well as a scholar,
Hinkle is captain of the track team
and played football for four years. He
has served as secretary of the Varsity
Club and a member of the Fellow-
ship of Christian Athletes.

Hinkle was chairman of the 1969
CONTACT = symposium’ which
brought Sen. George McGovern and
several other prominent men to the
campus in February for a discussion
in depth of power.

He also has been a_ dormitory
counselor, a student government ex-
ecutive committeeman and a member
of the Student Control Committee,
which handles disciplinary matters.
He holds membership in Phi Eta
Sigma honorary fraternity for schol-
arship, Omicron Delta Epsilon eco-
nomics society, the Commerce Fra-
ternity, Circle K, and the Student
Service Society, and is an officer in
Delta Tau Delta social fraternity.

POR SELECIES 2) BivVe.
RECENT GRADUATES

‘Twenty-one students and five recent
graduates have been elected to mem-
bership in Phi Beta Kappa.

The list includes 18 undergraduate
seniors, a Law School senior, and two
undergraduate juniors. They were in-
itiated into Virginia Gamma chapter
of the national honorary scholarship
fraternity following its annual convo-
cation April 12.

Phi Beta Kappa was founded at
William and Mary in 1776 and recog-
nizes and encourages scholarship and
cultural interests. Qualifications for
membership are high scholarship, lib-
eral culture, and good character.

Virginia students among the new
initiates include Henry L. Roediger
III of Danville, Marc A. Schewel of
Lynchburg, and Richard M. Thomas
of Bedford. Among the recent gradu-
ates are Carr L. Kinder Jr. of Roa-
noke, and Arnold S. Grandis and Da-
vid P. Lientz of Richmond.

Out-of-staters include Harold W.
Bowles of South Charleston, W. Va.;
Jeremy E. Brown of Potomac, Md.;
Robert J. Trotman of Winston-Salem,
N.C.; Garland S. ‘Tucker III of Wil-
son, N.C.; and Randy H. Lee of Bal-
timore, Md.

‘The others are Bruce E. Downing
of New York City; Dan T. Dunn Jr.
of Columbus, Ohio; Mark F. Eaker
of Dallas, Tex.; William D. Falvey of
Longview, Tex.; Gary H. Dodds ITI,
John ‘T. Whetstone III, and Bernard
D. Feld III, all of Birmingham, Ala.;
Stephen F. Fulghum Jr. of Lakeland,
Fla.; Gregory E. Parker of Alliance,
Ohio; Jerald L. Perlman of Baton
Rouge, La.; Michael C. Stevens of
‘Tallahassee, Fla.; Robert F. Wersel
Jr. of Cincinnati, Ohio; Anthony M.
Coyne of Decatur, Ga.; Dean K. Vego-
sen of Deal Park, N.J.; and Harold E.
Clark Jr. of Scarsdale, N.Y.

ODK FAPS 18:
WASHBURN
INITIATES

Thirteen students, four alumni, and
a pharmaceutical executive have been
initiated into Omicron Delta Kappa,
national honorary leadership society
founded at the University in 1914.

They were “tapped” for member-
ship during the annual ODK assem-
bly in Doremus Gymnasium. Dr.
Frank A. Rose, president of the Uni-
versity of Alabama and_ national
ODK, delivered the principal address.

Seniors initiated into ODK were
student body president John E. Passa-
vant III, Beaver, Pa.; Gregory E.
Parker, Alliance, Ohio; Charles E.
Stewart, Baltimore, Md.; Richard M.
‘Thomas, Bedford, Va.; and John A.
Wolf, Bethesda, Md.

Juinors selected were Steven B.
Sandler, Norfolk, Va.; Marvin C.
(Swede) Henberg, Laramie, Wyo.;
and D. Dean Kumpuris, Little Rock,
Ark. Law students chosen were seniors
James D. Humphries III, Plantation,
Fla.; David D. Redmond, Bloomfield,
Conn.; Eric L. Sisler, New Brunswick,
N.J.; Edward F. Schiff, New York,
N.Y.; and Dean Vegosen, Deal Park,
a

The alumni selected were William
C. Washburn of Lexington, Va., ex-
ecutive secretary of the W&L Alumni

AMONG

 

~

Association; John L. Crist Jr., en-
gaged in real estate and investments
in Charlotte, N.C.; E. Walter Dud-
ley, Alexandria, Va. attorney; and
John F. Watlington Jr. of Winston-
Salem, N.C., president of Wachovia
Bank & Trust Co.

Also initiated was Henry S. Mc-
Neil, director of McNeil Laboratories,
Inc., manufacturers of pharmaceuti-
cal specialties, and assistant to the
chairman of the board of Johnson &
Johnson. McNeil’s son, Henry S. Jr.,
was graduated from Washington and
Lee last year.

WOODROW WILSON
FOUNDATION
CHOOSES FOUR

Four Washington and Lee Univer-
sity seniors have been named Wood-
row Wilson designates by the Wood-
row Wilson National Fellowship
Foundation. A fifth W&L student is
listed on the foundation’s honorable
mention list.

The four designates are William M.
Christie Jr., Bruce E. Downing, Ste-
phen B. Grove, and Michael W. Pus-
tay. Receiving honorable mention is
Bernard D. Feld III.

They are among the 1,106 college
seniors whose names have been sent
by the foundation to all graduate
school deans in the U.S. and Canada
with a recommendation they receive
fellowship awards from the graduate
schools.

The Woodrow Wilson designates
were chosen from among 11,704 can-
didates nominated last fall. All indi-
cated they plan to follow a career in
college teaching.

Christie, who is majoring in ancient
languages, is from Gaithersburg, Md.
He is a consistent honor roll and
dean’s list student, a member of Phi
Beta Kappa, the debate team, and
the Young Democrats, and is a partici-
pant in the Robert E. Lee Research
Program for undergraduates.

Downing, a political science and
American history major, is also an
honor roll and dean’s list student. He
Son the executive board of the Poli-
tical Science Club-International Re-
lations Association and a member of
the debate team, Interfraternity

Council, Commerce Fraternity, Pi
Sigma Alpha honorary political sci-
ence fraternity, and Phi Eta Sigma
honorary fraternity for scholarship.

Grove, a history major from New-
ington, Conn., is on the honor roll
and dean’s list, the executive board of
PSC-IRA, Pi Sigma Alpha, Mu Beta
Psi music fraternity, the glee club, and
both the Young Democrats and Young
Republicans.

Pustay, an honor roll and dean’s
list student from Bergenfield, N. J.,
is an economics major. He is a mem-
ber of Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Eta Sig-
ma, Pi Sigma Alpha, the Commerce
Fraternity, Interfraternity Council,
Young Republicans, PSC-IRA execu-
tive board, and the yearbook staff, and
is a participant in the Robert E. Lee
Research Program.

Feld, an English major from Birm-
ingham, Ala., is an honor roll and
dean’s list student, a participant in
the Robert E. Lee Research Program,
a member of the debate team, the
staffs of the student newspaper, the
University and student literary mag-
azine, and the swimming team, and
serves as vice president of the pub-
lications board.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ie

CAMPUS.15

ESTRADA LEADS MOCK
OAS IN TWO-DAY
CONFERENCE

Washington and Lee students, tak-
ing a page from their book of success-
ful mock political conventions, have
held a model session of the Organiza-
tion of American States.

The mock OAS session was the
brainchild of senior Jorge Estrada of
Colombia, South America, and was
held March 14-15.

‘The two-day simulation of the in-
ter-American conference took up a
number of problems—both real and
hypothetical—facing the American na-
tions.

Students acted as delegates for each
of the 22 OAS member countries, and
also Cuba and Canada, which are not
members of the OAS. Students at a
number of nearby colleges were in-
vited to take part and several accept-
ed.

In preparing for the event, approxi-
mately 75 students served as Inter-
American Council delegates, meeting
weekly. Each studied the _ political,
military, economic, and cultural pol-
cies of his country.

 

 

Mire than 75 students simulated problems facing OAS, one of them a mock crises

involving United States’ invasion of Colombia.

 

16->CAMPUS

Among the problems discussed were
Peru's charge of aggression against the
United States involving the latter’s
fishing boats in Peruvian territorial
waters, Venezuela’s efforts to condemn
Cuba for accepting air piracy, and
Nicaragua’s charge of guerrilla activi-
ty on its borders with adjoining coun-
tries.

The model OAS was sponsored
jointly by the University, its students
through their student government
Executive Committee, the Political
Science Club, and the student news-
paper, the Ring-tum Phi.

CAMEUS POLITICAL
APATHY? V¥Ris. 8. ¥D's
DAY NO”

On a campus where students are
often accused of a great deal of
apathy, Washington and Lee’s poli-
tical clubs certainly do stay busy.

The W&L Young Republicans, one
of the most active organizations on
the campus, have sponsored several
prominent speakers, hosted two state-
wide conferences, and taken an active
part in local and regional political
campaigns.

The W&L Young Democrats, while
not as large, have been just as busy.
And they can boast that two of their
number hold statewide offices. Senior
Mark L. Faverman of Norfolk is
state president of the Virginia Young
Democrats, and law student Leslie
Smith of Chuckatuck serves as state
treasurer.

During last fall’s election cam-
paigns, the W&L Young Republicans
spent hundreds of hours manning
local party headquarters, addressing
letters to voters, and assisting local
GOP leaders in a door-to-door “get-
out-the-vote” campaign. Together
with the YR’s at neighboring Virginia
Military Institute, they addressed ap-
proximately 4,000 letters to registered
voters in Lexington and surrounding
Rockbridge County.

W&L YR’s knocked on an estimated
500 doors during the last three weeks
of the campaign, urging voters to go
to the polls. ‘They also assisted local
Teen-Age Republicans in distribut-
ing campaign literature and bumper
stickers, took part in a candidate’s

motorcade, and helped prepare for
Vice President-elect Spiro Agnew’s ap-
pearance in Staunton.

Meanwhile, in the November na-
tional election, the Young Democrats
from W&L worked in the primaries in
other states, and several attended the
Virginia Democratic Convention.

The YD’s have brought in promin-
ent state Democrats to speak on cur-
rent issues, such as_ liquor-by-the-
drink and the statewide bond refer-
endum, and also have heard several
candidates for state office—including
Virginia gubernatorial candidate
Henry Howell.

They also have taken part in area
and statewide campaigns, and_pre-
pared policy papers on the major
issues.

With the elections over, the W&L
YR’s now plan to focus their atten-
tion on programs of community ser-
vice. They have assisted with the

work at the Lexington Boys’ Club
and, in cooperation with the student
Interfraternity Council, sponsored
a visit by the Red Cross Bloodmobile.

Henry Graddy, a senior from Ver-

sailles, Ky., is president of the W&L

YR’s. He is assisted by juniors Thomas
Metcalf of Watertown, Mass. and
Robert Weed of Richmond, who are
in charge of club campaigning. Wil-
liam Tyler, a senior from Anchorage,
Ky., is community service chairman.

Under Faverman’s leadership, the
W&L Young Democrats hosted a meet-
ing of their organization’s state exec-
utive committee. Faverman has been
busy fulfilling speaking engagements
at other YD meetings across the state.

With the campaign for the Vir-
ginia governorship approaching, both
clubs plan to take active roles in it,
and will bring spokesmen for all the
hopefuls—or the candidates them-

selves—to the University to speak.

 

Young Republican delegates greet Sen. Barry Goldwater, on campus last year for

CONTACT symposium.

}

3
:
|

 

<

 

 

ATHLETIC CHANGES:
CORRIGAN BECOMES
NEW AD: ..

The University has named Eugene
F. Corrigan director of intercollegiate
athletics and head of the department
of physical education.

Corrigan, formerly administrative
assistant to Atlantic Coast Conference
Commissioner James H. Weaver, as-
sumed his new duties in early April.
He thus returns to the campus where
he began his college coaching career
14 years ago.

The 40-year-old Corrigan coached
lacrosse, soccer, and basketball at
Washington and Lee from 1955-58,
then joined the athletic department at

 

Gene Corrigan—Just the man to articulate
the University’s goals.

the University of Virginia where he
coached the same three sports and lat-
er became sports information director.
He left Virginia for the ACC com-
missioner’s office in July, 1967.
President Robert E. R. Huntley
announced the selection of Corrigan
to the post left vacant last August by
the death of Lee M. McLaughlin.
Edwin Pp. (Cy) Twombly, who was
due to retire as athletic director when
McLaughlin assumed the post, has
been serving as interim AD.
“We are delighted that Gene Cor-
84n will be our new athletic direct-
Or,” President Huntley said. “He
knows from previous experience here

Yi

just how very important the role of
athletics is to us in our total educa-
tional program.

“Our program is a varied one, and
we have a truly superior staff of
coaches and_ teachers,’ President
Huntley continued. “we believe Mr.
Corrigan is just the man to coordin-
ate this program and staff effective-
ly and just the man to articulate the
goals that we pursue.”

Corrigan said that he looked for-
ward to returning to a college cam-
pus, “something I’ve missed after be-
ing associated with two universities
for 12 years.” He said he left the ACC
“with regret,” and termed it “the most
difficult decision I’ve ever made.

“Having been at Washington and
Lee before, I have a great regard for
the University and its athletic pro-
gram, Corrigan said. “Since I
coached on an unsubsidized basis, the
W&L program is not a mystery to me.”

Corrigan has had a great success
in each sport he has coached, but it
is in lacrosse circles that he is best
known. He is a past president of the
U.S. Lacrosse Coaches Association and
has held administrative posts in the
U.S. Intercollegiate Lacrosse Associa-
tion.

A native of Baltimore, the heart of
lacrosse country, Corrigan was an All-
America honorable mention lacrosse
player for four years at Duke Univer-
sity, where he was graduated in 1952
with an A.B. degree in history.

Following his graduation from
Duke, Corrigan taught and coached
lacrosse, football, and basketball for
three years at St. Paul’s School in
Brooklandville, Md., leaving in 1955
to come to W&L.

He took the 1956 W&L lacrosse
team to England for a summer series
of games in which the Generals won
all but one of nine contests. He also
arranged a similar tour to Australia
by a combined Virginia-Washington
and Lee lacrosse team in 1959.

At the University of Virginia, Cor-
rigan served on several University
committees in addition to his duties
as coach, physical education teacher,
and sports information director. He
was elected to Omicron Delta Kappa
national leadership fraternity, and re-
ceived an award from the Virginia
students for doing the most for stu-
dent-faculty relations.

CAMPUS-17

As administrative assistant of the
ACC, Corrigan was in charge of the
conference’s service bureau, assigning
officials, co-ordinating the annual
basketball tournament, and_ serving
as an ex-officio member of the NCAA’s
public relations committee as chair-
man of the major conference informa-
tion directors. He is a member of the
NCAA’s football centennial commit-
tee.

Corrigan is married to the former
Lena Natale of Baltimore, and they
have two daughters and five sons,
ranging in age from two to 15.

. JN DD OLESLIE CE AIRS
OVER FOOTBALL

EK. Graham (Buck) Leslie Jr. has
been named head football coach at
the University.

Leslie, 43, a former assistant coach,
was acting head coach since last Au-
gust following the sudden death of
head coach Lee M. McLaughlin

In announcing Leslie’s appoint-
ment, President Robert E. R. Hunt-
ley praised his ability “to carry on
the football program successfully in
trying and difficult circumstances.”

Taking over just two weeks before
the football season began and working
with a staff left short by McLaughlin’s
death, Leslie installed a new offensive
system and saw his Generals win three

 

Buck Leslie—Thrilled to be coaching at
his alma mater.

 

18;CAMPUS

and tie one of nine games.

“The respect and admiration he
generated among the players and ev-
erything connected with the Univer-
sity speaks for his success,’’ President
Huntley commented.

Coach Leslie said “I am thrilled to
be the head coach at my alma mater.
It is a great responsibility, but one
I am looking forward to very much.”

Leslie joined the University facul-
ty in 1960 as an assistant to McLaugh-
lin in charge of the backfield. During
his eight years as an assistant coach,
the Generals won 44 games, lost 24
and tied three. Included were two un-
defeated seasons.

A native of Rockbridge County and
graduate of Lexington High School,
Leslie received his B.A. degree in po-
litical science from Washington and
Lee in 1949. He began his career as a
coach and teacher that same year at
Natural Bridge High School.

Leslie served 10 years at Natural
Bridge, coaching football, basketball,
and baseball. His football teams had
winning records in every year but one,
and his 1956 squad won the district
championship with a g-o-1 record.

LYNCHBURG ALUMNI
HONOR LEYBURN

Lynchburg alumni have presented
their honor citation to professor of
sociology Dr. James G. Leyburn “for
his memorable contributions to. the
cultural stimulation and intellectual
growth of generations of Washington
and Lee Men.”

The Lynchburg Citation was pre-
sented to Dr. Leyburn by the Lynch-
burg alumni chapter during its an-
nual Washington Birthday dinner in
late February. A number of Univer-
sity administrators including Presi-
dent Robert E. R. Huntley and Mrs.
Huntley, attended.

The award further cited Dr. Ley-
burn “for bringing a special validity
to the University’s true purpose as a
distinguished ‘teaching institution,’
for giving new emphasis and direction
to its mission, and making its lofti-
est goals attainable. :

“With enthusiasm, dignity, humor,
and wisdom,” the citation continued,
“he personifies the great teacher, the
compleat scholar wholly committed

 

Dr. James G. Leyburn accepts Lynchburg Citation from Lea Booth.

to the mind’s noblest adventures, find-
ing his pleasure and taking his reward
in leading others to know the exhila-
ration of truth, knowledge, and un-
derstanding.”

Dr. Leyburn came to Washington
and Lee in 1947 as dean of the Col-
lege. He resigned that post in 1955 to
devote full time to teaching, serving
as professor of sociology and acting
head of the department, and conduct-
ing courses in ancient history and the
Greek and Latin classics.

MOGER IS HISTORY
CHAIRMAN; JENKS
TAKES OVER IN 1970

Dr. Allen W. Moger will become
head of the department of history
for the 1969-1970 academic year and
will be succeeded by Dr. William A.
Jenks in September, 1970, it was an-
nounced by Dr. William W. Pusey
III, dean of the College.

Dr. Moger, a member of the Uni-
versity’s history faculty for 39 years,
will succeed Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw,
who has been department head since
1962 and a teacher for 42 years.

University policy requires depart-
ment head retirement at age 65, al-

though such professors may continue
to teach until age 7o.

Dr. Crenshaw becomes 65 this May,
and Dr. Moger will reach 65 in May
1970. Both are expected to continue
to teach under the chairmanship of
Dr. Jenks, 51, an alumnus who joined
the faculty in 1946.

Dr. Moger is currently acting head
of the department during a semester’s
leave of absence by Dr. Crenshaw. Dr.
Jenks is expected to be on leave one
semester next year. Both leaves are
made possible through a special grant
from the Ford Foundation designed
to strengthen undergraduate instruc-
tion in the humanities.

All three men are active historians
as well as teachers. Dr. Moger’s highly-
praised Virginia: Bourbonism to
Byrd, 1870-1925 was published by the
University of Virginia Press in De-
cember last year. Dr. Crenshaw’s his-
tory of Washington and Lee from
1749 to 1930, entitled General Lee's
College, will be published by Random
House in May. Dr. Jenks has written
widely on Austrian history, including
Vienna and the Young Hitler, pub-
lished by Columbia University Press
in 1960, and Austria Under the Iron
Ring, 1879-1893 published in 1965 by
the University of Virginia Press.

 

Dr. Moger is a native of Nanse-
mond County, Va., and received his
B.A. degree from Randolph-Macon
College in 1927. He earned M.A. and
Ph.D. degrees at Columbia Univer-
sity in 1935 and 1940. He was pro-
moted to professor of history at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1951.

Dr. Moger is chairman of the Uni-
versity’s Library Committee and _ its
Lecture Committee.

Dr. Jenks is a native of Jackson-
ville, Fla. and graduated from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1939. He also
earned graduate degrees at Columbia,
receiving his M.S. in 1940 and the
Ph.D. in 1949. He was promoted to
professor of history in 1956.

DEATH CLAIMS
DR. MYERS AND
DR. MOFFATT

News has reached the University
that two former distinguished profes-
sors have died within recent months.
Dr. E. D. Myers, professor of philoso-
phy from 1950 to 1958 and again in
1960, died in London January 13
while serving as cultural attaché in
the American Embassy.

Dr. James S. Moffatt Jr., who taught
English for 36 years and was head of
the department for many years before
his retirement in 1956, died Febru-
ary 7 in Anderson, S.C. :

Well known in American educa-
tional circles, Dr. Myers spent much
of his life as an educator and held
a deep interest in philosophy through-
out his career. He maintained a 20-
year association with British historian
Arnold Toynbee, and he was responsi-
ble for bringing Toynbee to the cam-
pus in 1958.

He taught at a number of Ameri-
can colleges, including General Theo-
logical Seminary, Birmingham South-
ern College, Trinity College (Conn.),
Roanoke College, and Washington
and Lee.

After leaving Lexington in 1958,
Dr. Myers was appointed cultural at-
taché of the American Embassy in
Bonn, but returned to Washington
and Lee after a year to teach philoso-
phy again.

In 1961, he was appointed cultural
attaché of the American Embassy in

London, where he remained until his
death except for a two-year interval
(1964-66) when he was academic vice
president of Haile Selassie University
in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

He was the author of numerous
books and articles on education, re-
ligion, and philosophy. During his
tenure with the American foreign
setvice, his chief concern was the pro-
motion of American studies in British
and German universities.

Dr. Moffatt received his B.A. from
Erskine College, his M.A. from Prince-
ton University, and his Ph.D. from
the University of North Carolina.
Following his retirement from Wash-
ington and Lee, the University ded-
icated the Moffatt Seminar Room in
Payne Hall in his honor.

Since his retirement, Dr. Moffatt
had resided in Due West, S.C., and
had served as a part-time English
professor at Erskine College, where
his father, grandfather, and great
grandfather served as presidents.

RUSHING APPOINTED
LAW DEAN AT
NORTH DAKOTA

Associate Professor of Law Robert
K. Rushing has been appointed dean
of the University of North Dakota
Law School, effective July 1. He suc-
ceeds Harold D. Cunningham Jr., who
has accepted a full time teaching
position in the Law School.

A native of Jackson, Miss., Rushing
received the B.A. degree in 1952 and
the LL.B. degree with distinction in
1959, both from the University of
Mississippi. He was a graduate fel-
low at Yale Law School during the
1960-61 session.

Rushing was on the faculty of the
University of Mississippi from 1959
to 1963, at which time he became as-
sociate professor of law at the Uni-
versity. In 1967-68, he was visiting
associate professor of law at the Uni-
versity of Illinois.

Rushing has been active in many
organizations. He was admitted to the
Mississippi State Bar in 1959 and has
served as co-chairman of the Lexing-
ton Democratic Committee. He was
on the Board of Directors of the cen-
tral Virginia chapter of the American
Civil Liberties Union, president of the

CAMPUS 19

Lexington Music Boosters, president
of the Lexington Gilbert and Sullivan
Society, and chairman of the Lexing-
ton Committee of Public Schools.

He is currently doing research in
legal problems arising from acquisi-
tion of real property by the military,
and in the area of peripheral rights
of employees.

GLENN GRANTS
AWARDED TO 21

‘Twenty-one professors will carry
out research and study projects this
year using University grants-in-aid
totaling $8,236.

The grants, provided by the John
M. Glenn Fund, were announced by
Dr. William W. Pusey III, dean of
the College. Made possible through
a $120,000 gift from the late Mr.
Glenn, the awards are presented each
year to encourage faculty scholarship
and to increase teaching effectiveness.

‘The 1969 recipients, their academic
departments and projects:

Dr: jesse L. Berry, German; for a
comparison of Martina Wied’s Rauch
Uber Sankt Florian and Anton Wild-
gans’ Kirbisch.

James Boatwright III, English, for
travel to Europe to meet and inter-
view writers for articles in Shenan-
doah, the University’s literary mag-
azine edited by Mr. Boatwright.

 

Dr. Milton Colvin will study foreign policy
influence at the grassroots.

 

20:;CAMPUS

Dr. Sargent Bush Jr., English, for
research and writing on author Thom-
as Hooker.

William W. Chaffin, English and
speech, for a paperback case study in
textbook form of significant problems
that can be used in argumentation
classes.

Dr. Milton Colvin, political sci-
ence, to complete a study of the im-
pact of foreign policy issues on Con-
gressional elections in Montana’s First
District.

Dr. Jay D. Cook Jr., accounting, to
publish recent research on debt struc-
ture and the cost of capital for the
steel and chemical industries.

Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, Eng-
lish, for materials to assist in continu-
ing research on Matthew Arnold.

David B. Dickens and Robert B.
Youngblood, German, for preparation
of a textbook edition of Goethe’s nov-
el, Werther.

Dr. E. S. Gilreath, chemistry, to as-
sist in revising a textbook on inor-
ganic chemistry.

Dr. Emory S. Kimbrough Jr., soci-
ology, for attendance at advanced sem-
inars for behavioral scientists at the
University of Michigan.

Charles V. Laughlin, law, to attend
a four-week course in foreign and
comparative law at the City of Lon-
don College, England.

Dr. H. Robert Huntley, English,
to prepare a book-length manuscript
on British novelist Ford Madox Ford.

Dr. George W. Ray III, English, tu
complete research on George Chap-
man’s plays.

Wilfred J. Ritz, law, to continue a
study of the legislative history in the
First Congress relating to the Federal
judicial system.

Robert Stewart, music and fine arts,
for two projects of original composi-
tions,

W. Dabney Stuart III, English, for
work on a volume of poems.

Herman W. Taylor Jr. and Mario
Pellicciaro, languages, to continue
work on an elementary Greek text.

Dr. John C. Winfrey, economics,
for research on certain implications
of the Federal debt.

Dr. David H. Zucker, English, to
explore the various types of a pattern
of visual/verbal statement and coun-

terstatement in Shakespeare’s “vo.
mance plays.

DUPONT SHOWINGS

duPont Gallery showings during
the past months have included works
by Garry Apgar, eight Lexington
artists, and sculptor Kenneth Beer.

Apgar, a former student now serv-
ing in Vietnam, presented water col-
ors and oil portraits of life in and
around An Hoa and Da Nang. The
January show was one of the most suc-
cessful ever held in duPont, accord-
ing to artist-in-residence Ray Prohas-
ka.

Apgar, who studied under Prohaska

 

Watercolor by Apgar.

for two years, hopes to pursue a
career as a political cartoonist after
his release from the Marine Corps in
1970.

Lexington artists Elizabeth B. Car-
son, Maxine Foster, Hope E. Laugh-
lin, Elizabeth M. Letcher, Carolyn
Prohaska, Jane B. Riegel, Elizabeth
H. Spencer, and Elise G. Sprunt ex-
hibited their works in duPont in
February.

RECENT SPEAKERS
INCLUDE NEMEROV

Recent campus speakers have in-
cluded poet and teacher Howard
Nemeroy; Pulitzer Prize-winning poet
Richard Wilbur; Dr. Frank A. Rose,
president of the University of Ala-

 

bama and Omicron Delta Kappa;
psychologist Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard,
associate professor of psychology at
Carnegie-Mellon University; —_—Dr.
Btanuk §. Price, head of the High
Energy Astrophysics branch of God-
dard Space Flight Center; Daniel
Callahan, executive editor of Com-
monweal magazine; and political sci-
entist Dr. Heinz Eulau of Stanford
University.

Nemerov read from his works and
lectured on “Poetry and Meaning.”
Wilbur also read from his works, and
his lecture was on “Poetry and Hap-
piness.”” Rose delivered the annual
ODK “Tap Day” address, while Jar-
rard led a colloquium on “Recent Re-
search on Brain Control of Memory.”
McDonald lectured on “Lunar Ex-
ploration,” Callahan spoke on
“Freud: Religion and Culture,’ and
Eulau discussed the topic, “Do Our
Representatives Represent Us?”

MORE LEE SCHOLARS
GET GRANTS

Seven additional grants-in-aid for

student research projects have been
awarded by the University.

The grants were made to eight un-
dergraduates under the unique Rob-
ert E. Lee Research Program. The stu-
dents will work closely with their pro-
fessors in carrying out the projects.

Stephen B. Grove, a senior from
Newington, Conn., is undertaking a
study of barometer states and coun-
ties in Presidential elections. Sopho-
more Christopher D. Friend of Moun-
tain Lakes, N. J. and junior Gregory
L. Holmes of Toledo, Ohio will look
into factors determining human mem-
Ory.

Gregory E. Parker, an Alliance,
Ohio senior, will prepare photograph-
ic film sequences for freshman chem-
istry, while law student Jeffrey R.
Reider of Cleveland Heights, Ohio,
will look into the development of the
American judicial system before 1801.

In the sciences, two students, fresh-
man Daniel W. Armstrong of Ft.
Wayne, Ind. and sophomore Arthur F.
Cleveland II of Spartanburg, S.C.,
will conduct chemistry projects, while
junior Anthony M. Coyne of Decatur,
Ga. will research solar magnetic
storms.

 

Sl cae

 

FORMER TUCKER
LECTURER SCORES
WITH U.S. SENATOR

A John Randolph Tucker Lecture
delivered at Washington and Lee a
year ago is receiving congressional at-
tention and could lead to legislation
to bring about swifter processing of
criminal appeals in Federal court.

The lecturer, Judge Albert V. Bry-
an of Alexandria, Va., U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, called
for reducing the time for processing
appeals from the prevalent six months
to about 25 days, suggesting more ex-
tensive use of oral presentation, the
elimination of briefs or at least the
submission of simultaneous briefs, the
waiving of the printing of briefs, and
screening out frivolous appeals at an
early point in the process.

Judge Bryan wrote President Hunt-
ley in March that the proposals he
made in the lecture had been studied
by the Senate Judiciary Committee,
that the lecture was placed last sum-
mer in the Congressional Record, and
that Sen. Tydings will discuss the pro-
posals in connection with legislation
he will propose this spring. The
judge added:

“IT only mention these developments
to you because of my continued appre-
ciation of your kindness in giving me
the occasion and opportunity the lec-
ture afforded.”

President Huntley replied, expres-
sing his personal delight and the pride
of the University that Judge Bryan
chose a Tucker Lecture as the form
lor expressing his thoughts.

UNIVERSITY HOSTS
TEACHERS IN SPRING
SCIENCE SEMINAR

A special seminar designed to ac-
quaint high school science teachers
with college level science instruction
will be held at Washington and Lee
this spring.

The University, through a $2,760
grant from the Alfred P. Sloan Foun-
dation, will] bring approximately 30
selected secondary school _ science
teachers to the campus for the two-
day seminar on “Individualized In-
‘truction in the Sciences.”

During their stay on campus, the
teachers will hear brief talks on Wash-
ngton and Lee and its science instruc-
tion and will visit each science de-
partment—biology, chemistry, geology
and physics. These visits will be made
in small groups so the teachers may
best observe the University’s students
and professors and the equipment
involved in classroom and research.

The teachers also will meet inform-
ally with student researchers and _pro-
fessors to discuss how secondary school
science courses can best prepare stu-
dents for college, and how beginning
college courses can best use the sec-
ondary school preparation of students.

Invitations have been sent to sec-
ondary schools whose graduates have
ranked among the academic leaders
while continuing their education at
Washington and Lee. Principals of
those schools have been asked to se-
lect a science teacher to be a delegate
to the seminar.

Through the Sloan Foundation
grant, Washington and Lee will be
able to pay the teachers’ expenses in
attending the seminar. In early 1967
the University received a $250,000
grant from the Sloan Foundation to
strengthen its science instruction, and
last year received a $197,300 National
Science Foundation grant to improve
further its programs in the natural
and social sciences and in mathemat-
ics.

SWIMMERS BALL AND
BRUMBACK WIN
ALL-AMERICA

Washington and Lee swimmers Billy
Ball and Bill Brumback achieved All-
America honors at the NCAA College
Division national swimming champ-
ionships held in mid-March at Spring-
field, Mass.

Ball, a senior from Jacksonville, Fla.
and the older brother of Olympic
swimmer Katie Ball, won two AII-
America positions by placing high in
both of his specialties, the 100-yard
and 200-yard backstroke.

In the national meet at Springfield
College which involved swimmers
from all over the country, the top 12
finishers in each event are designated
All-Americas. Ball placed sixth in the

 

CAMPUS.21

100-yard backstroke with a time of
-57-2, and ninth in the 200 with a
2:08.5 clocking.

Brumback, a sophomore from Balti-
more, finished sixth in the 50-yard
freestyle with a time of :22.9. In an
earlier preliminary heat, he was clock-
ed in :22.2, the second fastest time of
the entire meet.

Ball and Brumback were the main-
stays of the Generals’ swimming team
which this winter posted a 7-2 season
record and maintained W&L’s win-
ning tradition in swimming. It has
been more than 25 years since the
Generals last had a losing record.

 

Senior backstroker Billy Ball (top) and
Sophomore freestyler Billy Brumback.

a .
2 noe

=

 

22, ATHLETICS

SORT OF LIKE THE COLTS,
THE SUPER BOWL,
AND ALL THAT MONEY.
POOF!

It was Sunday morning, and Verne Canfield was read-
ing the sports section of the Commercial Appeal. He was
waiting for his basketball team to join him for breakfast
at one of the numerous Holiday Inns that seem to satu-
rate Memphis.

This one was the Union Central Holiday Inn, located
at 1837 Union, just a short five-minute drive to the cam-
put of Southwestern at Memphis, a trip Canfield and

 

his players had made the night before. And that’s what
the Washington and Lee coach was reading about.

“It comes down, as most seasons do, to the one final
game,’ Canfield had said before the game. “You could
win them all and lose the last game and you wouldn't
be remembered other than just the team that almost did
the job. This is very definitely the most important game
to us, maybe the most important game of the season.”

LYNX BREEZE TO TITLE the headline claimed,
followed by that very harsh opening line: “Jt wasn’t even
close.”

The story went on to say how host Southwestern had
blitzed the Generals, 73-55, in the championship game
of the College Athletic Conference basketball tourna-
ment, thus taking away the title W&L had held for two
successive years.

The loss also prevented the Generals from winning
20 games (they finished 19-5), but, more importantly, it
knocked Canfield’s team out of contention for a post-
season NCAA tournament bid, and that had to be the
real backbreaker.

Before Southwestern blocked the way, W&L had every
reason to believe it was going to make it this time. Why,
for two years running the Generals had been considered,
and never mind if they’d also been turned down. This
season there were wins over Guilford, a powerhouse last
year, the Quantico Marines, and even Navy, that big-time
school.

Players began filtering into the room, still sleepy-
eyed after a fitful night. Charlie Stone was the last to
make it, probably because he was the last to go to bed—
he had walked the streets until God only knows when.

When his eggs arrived, Canfield finally put down the
paper. “You know, it’s still been a good season. I didn’t
think we could get 19 when we started, especially with
that schedule. And losing our guards didn’t help (three
players, all backcourt men, were first semester academic
casualties). But these guys really came through. Pride.
Personal pride.”

Canfield was turning his fork over and over again.
He looked in the direction of Mel Cartwright, who was
also suffering more than a little bit as he picked up a
paper. It seemed everyone had a paper, reading that
article, then rereading it, maybe in an attempt to find at
least something good in the story. But that opening line
always caught up with them. “/t wasn’t even close.” Nor-
wood Morrison just shook his head.

Cartwright knew better than anyone else. Going into
the game, he was averaging close to 20 points. That’s how
he had gotten his nickname, Magic Mel. Along the base-
line, or across the key, here he came. Deft, man, deft.
Fake here, fake there. Stop. Then a long, sliding move.

Usually active on bench, Canfield lapses into study of concentration
as Generals wrap up another regular season win.

Up would go the ball from under a thousand arms, an
impossible shot, surely. But there it was—two points.

Cartwright read the box. Opposite his name, under
Total Points, there was a 2. It wasn’t a typo. Southwest-
ern had collapsed two and three men on him, better
than any team had done before, and had stopped him
cold. Not a basket from the floor. Just two lousy free
throws.

Canfield shrugged. “It wasn’t his fault."‘We knew they
were going to do that,” he said. “We just stood around.
You're supposed to find an open man when that hap-
pens. Someone’s got to be open. We didn’t find him.

“If we stand, their defense is going to look good,” he
had said before the game. “If we have five men moving,
then we think we can score.” They were haunting words
now.

It’s agonizing that a whole season should come down
to that final game, but maybe it’s a way of keeping
things honest. There you are, sailing along toward a
title that’s rightfully yours, and perhaps there’s a re-
ward like an NCAA bid just waiting to be issued at the
sign of your good fortune. Sort of like the Colts, the
Super Bowl, and all that money. Poof!

Canfield was reflecting, trying to talk himself into the
fact that a 19-5 record was good. extremely good. Who
could deny it? After all, he had brought this team a long
way. When three starters and a top reserve were gone
from the beginning, didn’t he adjust? Starting Morrison
and Stone at guard, Cartwright and Stu Fauber at for-
ward, and big Mike Neer at center, he lost the opener,
sure, but look what happened after that.

The victory over Guilford was sweet, especially since
the Quakers had gone to the finals of the NAIA last year.
Hampden-Sydney fell, too, and so did a bunch of others.
Win, win, win. The Christmas holiday break record
was 8-1, one of the best, if not the best, ever at that time.

After a couple of setbacks to Baltimore and Florida
Presbyterian, between which were sandwiched some vic-
tories, the Generals topped Navy, 70-69, in what was
called a vital win. It was interpreted as the David vs.
Golith conquest, and it meant W&L could play ball on
a major level.

Then came the exam break, and out went the guards.
The particular tough break was losing Bill Rhyne, a
sophomore gem who was coming on so strong he was
cracking the first string with frequency. His defensive
work reminded you of Tommy Cox a couple of years ago,
but he was more of a shooter than Cox. Rhyne was
definitely an asset.

Adjust some more. Roanoke was the next win, and
although the game was muddled by poor student be-

Junior star Mel Cartwright scored 1,000th career point early in
season, went on to win All-State and All-Conference honors.

ATHLETICS 223

havior, it was significant because the Maroons had been
an NCAA regional representative last year.

The showdown had been advertised for weeks on
campus, and the pre-game warning to get there early was
entirely justified—Doremus was packed 45 minutes be-
fore tip-off. The local papers picked it up, too, running
story after story how Roanoke was going to do this,
W&L that. It was good press.

But the good turned sour, and rightfully so. Over-re-
acting students peppered the Roanoke bench with pen-
nies and paper, then waved their hands back and forth in
front of Maroon foul shooters. “Bush,” exclaimed The
Roanoke Times. “Insanity prevails,” cried out The Roa-
noke World-News. Roanoke coach Charlie Moir said he’d
never come back, and he couldn’t be blamed.

Canfield apologized for the incident, and he issued
a stern warning over the PA system before the next home

 

QA ATAILETICS

Junior pivotman Mike Neer, national junior AAU high jump
champion, also earned All-State honors to help Generals take
Virginia Small College title.

game, words to the effect that any further abuse might
result in technicals called against W&L. The place raised
hardly a peep, and for a while enthusiasm was somewhat
stifled.

The quiet didn’t last long. It ended the night Quan-
tico came to town, an aggregation that was more profes-
sional than not. In fact, Mike Redd had been drafted
by the Celtics and an ABA team, but turned them down
to re-up for another hitch. People at W&L are still try-
ing to figure that one out.

Well, the Generals raced to an amazing 29-9 lead,
then blew it when Redd, watching from the bench while
the subs worked a little, came in to set things right.
Nineteen quick points by Redd, a series of W&L turn-
overs caused by Redd, and it was back to normal. The
Generals went downstairs with a scary 35-29 halftime
lead.

Canfield burned out his team in the locker room. “We
had a little talk,” he says, not at all trying to hide the
fact that he “chewed their fannies real good.”” Although
Canfield’s words had an awaking effect on the Generals,
Quantico was still all stirred up, enough so to take three-
point leads several times in the second half.

But in the end, it was Cartwright and Fauber who
won it, and W&L had one of its finest wins of the year,
67-63.

It was then that post-season tournament talk really
started, gaining even more strength when W&L turned
back Davis & Elkins out of West Virginia and Emory &
Henry to push the record to 18-4. Canfield’s crew was
off to the east bank of the Mississippi River, visions
of sugar plums dancing in their heads.

The breakfast talk turned to the trip home. A report
of snow in Virginia prompted calls to the Memphis air-
port to find out if Roanoke was still open. Everyone
knew they closed it at a moment’s notice, and wasn’t it
true about no radar there? Didn’t the pilots look for
Howard Johnson’s roof, then make a left?

Roanoke was open, someone said. There were a few

8.

chuckles in an otherwise quiet room. Canfield told his
players to be in the lobby at 11:15, and they all started
to ease out, stopping along the way to offer thanks to
the multitude of waitresses that had fed them for four
days.

One, the hostess herself, slipped up behind Fauber
to say how nice everyone had been. Do come back, she
said. Fauber forced a sincere smile, then quietly went
out to join the others.

No one took their papers with them.

 

 

WEL OPP. 73 Baltimore 89 WEL OPP.
71 Randolph-Macon 78 80 Va. Commonwealth 75, 49 Roanoke 47
94 Bridgewater 63 “3 Bridgewater 67 88 W. Maryland 6g
83 Va. Commonwealth 70 47 W. Va. Tech. 36 83 Ashe.-Biltmore 111
g6 Lynchburg 6o 75 Fla. Presbyterian 83 77 Lynchburg 72
75 Hampden-Sydney 73 “0 Navy 69 67 Quantico Marines 63
80 N.C. Methodist 72 : 76 Davis & Elkins 67
94 Guilford 76 * 68 Emory & Henry (07) 63
89 Shepherd* 65, *Tournament Games “9 Centre* 6,

7 Bloomsburg* 75 55 Southwestern* 73

 

 

 

 

Bee,

 

 

DEVELOPMENT .25

ROBERT E. LEE ASSOCIATES: A VITAL SOURCE OF STRENGTH

In little more than a year the Rob-
ert E. Lee Associates has become a
vital sustaining force in the life of
Washington and Lee _ University.
Equally important, there is accumulat-
ing evidence that the program is de-
stined to achieve greater success.

The Board of Trustees established
the Associates to provide a systematic,
permanent method of honoring and
thanking alumni, parents, and friends
whose generosity to the University is
clearly above the ordinary. Another
purpose was to satisfy the strong de-
sire of many persons to join in a per-
petual association devoted to advanc-
ing the welfare of the University and
to paying lasting tribute to the mem-
ory and educational foresight of
Robert E. Lee.

The Trustees carefully structured
the program to accomplish these
goals. Its special features include:

—Everyone who contributes $1,000
to the Associates will always be listed
as a Lee Associate. An Associate is
never dropped from the membership
rolls because he does not contribute
at the $1,000 level every year, al-
though the Trustees hope that every
Lee Associate who is able will do so
€ach year.

—All alumni received information
about the Associates in a specially
Prepared mailing. The Trustees want-
ed to make sure that no alumnus
failed to join because he did not re-
ceive an invitation.

 

—The minimum gift of $1,000 can
be given during any 12 consecutive
months for any purpose. The most
desirable gift is one from current
operations, but any gift of $1,000 or
more for other purposes qualifies a
contributor for Associate membership.
The only exception is that deferred
gifts, up to this point, have not been
included.

—Robert E. Lee Associates are not
regarded merely as sources of financ-
ial support. They are looked upon as
a focus of leadership for the continued
well-being of the entire University.
Ways are being explored to draw up-
on their talent and wisdom in this
respect, and future meetings of the
Associates will devise programs to do
this.

Response to the Associates has been
remarkable. At the end of the charter
year (Dec. 31, 1968), 164 persons had
become Lee Associates, contributing
a total of $324,852. And the list con-
tinues to grow during the second
year.

The breakdown of charter giving:

—From alumni for current expendi-
tures and credited to the 1967-68 An-
nual Alumni Fund: 126 persons con-
tributing $159,663.50.

—From parents for current expendi-
tures and credited to the 1967-68 Par-
ents’ Fund: 16 families contributing

$17,350.

—From friends other than alumni
and parents for current expenditures:
4 persons contributing $18,475.

—From persons designating their
gifts for purposes other than current
expenditures: 18 persons (including
11 alumni) contributing $129,261.50.

And the second year is going well.
As of March 15, 24 charter members
had contributed for a second time,
giving a total of $80,034.67. In addi-
tion, 6 persons had become members
of the Associates since the deadline
for charter membership expired on
Dec. 31.

The Trustees decided that the first
chairman of the Lee Associates should
be appointed instead of elected be-
cause the Association in the late fall
of 1968 had not reached the stage of
a formal organization with a full set
of elective officers.

The Trustees, therefore, invited an
eminent businessman and loyal alum-
nus, David D. Johnson, ’21A and ‘23L,
to become chairman. Mr. Johnson
graciously accepted and is busy en-
listing continued support for the Uni-
versity through the Associates.

If success breeds success, then the
future of the Associates appears bright
indeed. Many persons familiar with
programs similar to the Associates
have described Washington and Lee’s
experience with the Robert E. Lee As-
sociates as little short of phenomenal.

 

 

 

46. DEVELOPMENT

CHARTER MEMBERS OF THE ROBERT E. LEE ASSOCIATES

Following are the persons who by Decem-
ber 31, 1968 became charter members of the
Robert E. Lee Associates. Those without de-
gree designations are either parents of stu-

dents or friends of the University.

Dr. Charles V. Amole ‘29
Alexandria, Virginia

Mr. Frank S. Anderson
Louisville, Kentucky

Mr. Thomas D. Anderson °'34L
Houston, Texas

Mr. Earle T. Andrews ’25
Berkeley Springs, West Virginia

Mr. John S. Bailey, Jr. ’51L
Parkersburg, West Virginia

Mr. Frederick Bartenstein, Jr. ’39 '41L
Mendham, New Jersey

Mr. Andrew H. Baur, Jr. °37
St. Louis, Missouri

Mr. Clyde Stuart Bear ‘29
Panama City Beach, Florida

Mr. Hazen O. Bewley
Greeneville, Tennessee

Mr. James H. Bierer ’40
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Mr. Joseph E. Birnie ‘27
Atlanta, Georgia

Mr. Lee Truscott Bivins °38
Amarillo, Texas

Mr. Arthur Blank, IT ‘6o
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Dr. Leonard C. Borland °31
Roanoke, Virginia

Mr. Harry Lee Bowman ’36
Rolling Hills Estates, California

Mr. Thomas Harris Broadus '25
Knoxville, Tennessee

Mr. L. Palmer Brown, III ‘go
Memphis, Tennessee

Mr. Robert Gordon Brown ’49
Midland, Texas

Mr. William O. Burtner ‘17 ’18L
Harrisonburg, Virginia

Mr. J. Stewart Buxton '36
Memphis, Tennessee

Mr. John F. Carrere
New Orleans, Louisiana

Mr. James R. Caskie ‘06 ‘ogL (deceased)
Lynchburg, Virginia

Mr. John W. Clark, Jr. 64
Birmingham, Alabama

Mr. W. P. Coleman 's3 ’34L
Lexington, Virginia

Mr. John D. Copenhaver ’38
Roanoke, Virginia

Dr. George Barksdale Craddock ‘go
Lynchburg, Virginia

Dr. Robert Glenn Craig 17
San Francisco, California

Mr. John Letcher Crist, Jr. "45
Charlotte, North Carolina

Mr. Edward B. Crosland
Short Hills, New Jersey

Mr. Haskell T. Dickinson ‘39 *41L
Little Rock, Arkansas

Mr. John Wilson Dyer, Jr. ’20L
New York, New York

Mr. and Mrs. Lynn D. Durham
Midland, Texas

Mr. Winfield Scott Essex, Jr. "64
New York, New York

Mr. John M. Eckerd
Clearwater, Florida

Mr. Benjamin Franklin Fiery ‘13
Cleveland, Ohio

Mr. Robert N. Fishburn '55
Roanoke, Virginia

Mr. Edwin Joseph Foltz '40L
Gladwyne, Pennsylvania

Mr. Randolph Frantz ‘22
Roanoke, Virginia

Mr. John P. French ‘50
Scottsdale, Arizona

Mr. Charlton Thomas Fuller ’42
Catasauqua, Pennsylvania

Mr. Robert Adam Fulwiler, Jr. '25
Wilmington, Delaware

Mr. Fred O. Funkhouser °34
Harrisonburg, Virginia

Mr. Howard K. Gibbons ‘21L
Harrisonburg, Virginia

 

Mr. Robert R. Giebel ‘44
Darien, Connecticut

Mr. Frank J. Gilliam °17
Lexington, Virginia

Mr. Joseph Morris Glickstein ‘g0L
Neptune Beach, Florida

Mr. Richard E. Gooch ‘go
Lynchburg, Virginia

Mr. Abe Goodman ‘25
Memphis, Tennessee

Dr. H. B. Gotten, Sr. ’24
Memphis, Tennessee

Dr. H. B. Gotten, Jr. ‘60
Memphis, Tennessee

Mr. F. D. Gottwald, Jr.
Richmond, Virginia

Mr. Gerard E. Grashorn ‘go
Chicago, Illinois

Senator Garland Gray ‘22
Waverly, Virginia

Mr. John A. Groobey '58
Los Angeles, California

Mr. Wilbur C. Hall ‘15
Leesburg, Virginia

Mr. W. Cecil Hardy ’39
Vienna, West Virginia

Mr. D. H. Harrold
Tazewell, Virginia

Dr. Milford B. Hatcher
Macon, Georgia

Mr. J. Sherman Henderson, Jr. °41
Louisville, Kentucky

Mr. John F. Hendon ’24
Birmingham, Alabama

Mr. Theodore S. Hochstim 48
Dallas, Texas

The Honorable Homer A. Holt ‘18 ’23L
Charleston, West Virginia

Mr. James Holzman
New York, New York

Mr. Farris P. Hotchkiss ‘58
Lexington, Virginia

Dr. Aubrey Alphin Houser ‘og
Richmond, Virginia

Mr. Lawrence L. Humphreys '11
Duncan, Oklahoma

Mrs. Marjorie Hyman
New York, New York

Mr. Herbert G. Jahncke ‘go
New Orleans, Louisiana

Mr. David D. Johnson ‘21 ‘23L
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Mr. David T. Johnson
Pensacola, Florida

Mr. Henry P. Johnston ‘29
Birmingham, Alabama

Mr. H. Reed Johnston ‘28
New York, New York

Mr. William R. Johnston ’61
New York, New York

Mr. George Rather Jones °37
Dallas, Texas

Mr. John Martin Jones, III ’37
Greeneville, ‘Tennessee

Mr. D. Lacy Keesler
Charlotte, North Carolina

Mr. Willard H. Keland ‘41
Racine, Wisconsin

The Rt. Rev. Christoph Keller ’g9
Little Rock, Arkansas

Mr. S. L. Kopald, Jr. "43
Memphis, Tennessee

Mr. George H. Lanier, Jr. ‘29
New York, New York

Mr. Joseph L. Lanier ‘27
West Point, Georgia

Mr. Ainsley J. Lester, Jr. ‘23
Martinsville, Virginia

Mr. William Jerome Luria '28
Jenkintown, Pennsylvania

Mr. Charles P. Lykes '39
Tampa, Florida

Mr. Joseph T. Lykes, Jr. "41
New Orleans, Louisiana

Mr. Lewis A. McMurran, Jr. 36
Newport News, Virginia

Mr. Henry S. McNeil
Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania

Mr. Ross L. Malone ’g2L
New York, New York

Mr. Frank Markoe, Jr. "45
Morris Plains, New Jersey

Mr. Everett A. Martin °37
Norfolk, Virginia

Mr. James Bland Martin ’g1L
Gloucester, Virginia

Dr. Thomas L. Martin "41
Berkeley, West Virginia

Mr. Royal L. Mattingly
Silver Spring, Maryland

Mr. Howard Eugene Melton ‘36
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

Mr. Oliver M. Mendell ‘50
New York, New York

Mr. R. C. Milling ‘08
New Orleans, Louisiana

Mr. Houston M. Minniece ‘31
Jackson, Mississippi

Mr. James Porter Morefield '52L
Houston, Texas

Mr. Edwin Alexander Morris ’26
Greensboro, North Carolina

Mr. T. J. Morrison ’29
Coral Gables, Florida

Mr. Thomas W. Moses ’39
Minneapolis, Minnesota

Mr. Albert William Moss ’35
New York, New York

Mrs. Harry M. Nielson
Midland, Texas

Mr. William C. Norman ’28
Crossett, Arkansas

Mr. Edgar Marshall Nuckols, Jr. ’33 '35L
Camden, New Jersey

Mr. Frank A. Parsons 54
Lexington, Virginia

Mrs. Alexandra N. Peirez
Great Neck, New York

Mr. Solon Armour Person, III "57
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

ASSIST FROM SHELL

For the oth consecutive — year,
Washington and Lee is among those
selected to share in the Shell Assists
program of the Shell Companies
Foundation, Inc.

President Robert E. R. Huntley an-
nounced receipt of the Shell gift of
$1,500 to be used for general faculty
development.

The University is one of a number
of privately supported colleges and
universities which annually has _re-
ceived a $1,500 donation from the
Shell Assists program, established by
the Shell Companies Foundation, Inc.
in 1958.

 

Mr. James Alvin Philpott "45
Lexington, North Carolina

Mr. Walter B. Potter °48
Culpeper, Virginia

Mr. Lewis F. Powell, Jr. ’29
Richmond, Virginia

Mr. Thompson E. Purvis, Jr. ’51
Fort Worth, Texas

Mr. Donald H. Putnam, Jr. '44
Ashland, Kentucky

Mr. Emil Charles Rassman, IIT "41
Midland, Texas

Mr. Benjamin Lewis Rawlins ’g0L
New York, New York

Mr. Robert R. Reid, Jr. "49
Birmingham, Alabama

Mr. William E. Reid
New York, New York

Mr. Charles W. Rex ’25
Orlando, Florida

Mrs. Dorothy B. Rich
Danville, Virginia

Dr. Houston St. Clair ‘22
Knoxville, ‘Tennessee

Mr. Marion Sutton Sanders "17 (deceased)
Wytheville, Virginia

Mr. Isadore Meyer Scott '37L
Meadowbrook, Pennsylvania

Mr. Richard Scruggs
Birmingham, Alabama

Dr. Richard H. Shepard ’43
Baltimore, Maryland

Mr. R. H. Sheppard
Hanover, Pennsylvania

Mr. Bernard Bobbs Shivley ’o3
Marion, Indiana

Mr. and Mrs. S. Russell Smith
Louisville, Kentucky

Mr. Martin W. Spector ’25
Coral Gables, Florida

Mr. Philip D. Sprouse ‘28
Orinda, California

Mr. Theodore C. Standifer ’19
Monroe, Louisiana

 

DEVELOPMENT -27

Mr. John M. Stemmons ’g1
Dallas, Texas

Mr. Leslie Storey Stemmons ‘27L
Dallas, Texas

Mr. William Francis Stone 'g3L
Martinsville, Virginia

Mr. Edward E. Stover '37L
Washington, New Jersey

Mr. and Mrs. H. Webster Stull
Bloomington, Illinois

Mrs. Jay W. Stull
Bloomington, Illinois

Mr. Robert W. Swinarton ‘50
Hohokus, New Jersey

Mr. Robert Lee Telford ‘22
Naples, Florida

Mr. Bland Terry, Sr. ’13
Atlanta, Georgia

Mr. Bland Terry, Jr. 50
Atlanta, Georgia

The Rev. John N. Thomas '24
Richmond, Virginia

Mrs. Myrtle Watts Thomas
Birmingham, Alabama

Mr. J. Penrod Toles '54L
Roswell, New Mexico

Mr. John Bell Towill ’29L
Augusta, Georgia

Mr. Cooper Turner °27 ‘29L
Memphis, Tennessee

Mr. Richard H. Turrell "49
New York, New York

Mr. E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr. ’61
Charlottesville, Virginia

Mr. Tinkham Veale, II
Gates Mills, Ohio

Mr. Claude M. Walker "41
Columbia, South Carolina

Dr. Louis M. Walker ’40
Akron, Ohio

Mr. Robert C. Walker ’38
Columbia, South Carolina

Mr. Jonathan W. Warner "41
‘Tuscaloosa, Alabama

Mr. William A. Webster "43
Memphis, Tennessee

Mr. Homer W. Weidmann ’g9
Belleville, Illinois

Mr. J. A. Weinberg ’31
Washington, D.C.

Mr. Manuel M. Weinberg ’g1
Frederick, Maryland

Mr. G. Bruce West '49
Bethesda, Maryland

Mr. Walter Hedrick Wilcox '29
Wayland, Massachusetts

Mr. William Bell Wisdom ‘21
New Orleans, Louisiana

Mr. John F. Wolfe ‘65,
Columbus, Ohio

Mr. William Plummer Woodley ’28L
Norfolk, Virginia

Mr. Stuard Wurzburger '28
Montclair, New Jersey

Mr. Frank P. Zoch, Jr. ’3
Corpus Christi, Texas

One Anonymous Member

 

23° ALUMNI

WHITEHURST AND
COOK WIN
ELECTIVE POSTS

It must have been the year for the
Republicans. First, Washington and
Lee students picked Richard M. Nix-
on at their Mock Convention last
spring, then saw him win the White
House chair in November.

Also in that November election,
two Washington and Lee sons were
winning elections of their own, one
to the United States House of Repre-
sentatives, the other to the Georgia
General Assembly.

Dr. G. William Whitehurst, class

of 1950 and pre-election dean of stu-
dents at Old Dominion College, was
sent to Congress from Virginia’s Sec-
ond District, the first time in 36 years
a member of the GOP had won that
post . As Commonwealth magazine
put it: “A Republican congressman
from the Democratic stronghold of
the Second District is about as likely
as Hubert Humphrey at a Klan ral-
ly.”
But Dr. Whitehurst was sent to
Capitol Hill, and with a healthy lead
of 51,188 votes to Frederick T. Stant’s
43,224. Part of it was due to Dr.
Whitehurst’s charisma, the other part
to Democratic infighting when dissi-
dent party members crossed over af-
ter liberal Stant won the primary.

It took some doing to get Dr.
Whitehurst to run. For one thing, he
liked has job at Old Dominion, a po-
sition he had held since 1963 after
joining the faculty as a history pro-
fessor in 1950. He had become a pop-
ular teacher and administrator.

But ODC president Lewis W. Webb
encouraged him to run, said his de-
cision would in no way harm the col-
lege, and that was it. Dr. Whitehurst
was off. A strong campaigner, he spoke
anytime he could, and often ended up
debating his opponent as many as
four times a day. Among his priori-
ties were education, penal reform, and
foreign policy.

At the same time, hundreds of miles
to the south, Rodney M. Cook, vale-
dictorian of the class of 1947, was
again winning the Georgia-Fulton
County-at-Large seat to the General
Assembly. He was first elected to the
post in 1965.

A chartered life underwriter since
1954, Cook is one of those dynamic
sorts who likes to get involved. His
political bug was stirred back in 1952
when he became interested in a Young
Republicans group for Eisenhower.
He drew upon his A.B. in political sci-
ence as a starting point to kindle an
interest in politics.

Then, fired by concern about poli-
tical conditions in Georgia and his de-
sire to see the two-party system work
in the South, Cook entered GOP At-
lanta politics. He made history in
1961 when he became one of the first
two Republicans ever elected to the
Atlanta Board of Aldermen.

Appointed to the Planning and De-
velopment Committee, the Urban Re-
newal Policy Committee, the Parks
Committee, and the Zoning Commit-
tee during his tenure as an alderman,
he was to chair three of them before
going to the General Assembly.

NOT ONE, NOT Two,
BUT THREE
DISTRICT JUDGES

One for the Believe-It-or-Not file:
In the 10th Judicial District of the
state of New York, which comprises
both Nassau and Suffolk counties
(roughly three million people), it
turns out that three Washington and
Lee men currently are serving as jus-
tices in this single district. They are
the Hon. D. Ormonde Ritchie, the
Hon. Sol Wachtler, and the Hon.
George F. X. McInerney.

ALUMNI FIGURE IN
JAMES EARL RAY CASE

Washington and Lee men figured
predominently in the James Earl
Ray case. First, alumnus Fred M. Vin-
son Jr. arranged the extradiction of
Ray from England this past summer.
Alumnus W. Preston Battle, criminal
court judge in ‘Tennessee’s Shelby
County, presided over the trial before
his death in March.

SIX VIRGINIA COLLEGE
HEADS HONORED

The presidents of six Virginia col-
leges—all of them graduates of the
University—were honored in Rich-
mond in early March.

The Richmond alumni chapter, to-
gether with the University, feted the
six men at a formal dinner dance at
the Country Club of Virginia.

‘The honorees were Presidents Rob-
ert E. R. Huntley of Washington and
Lee, William T. Martin of Sullins,
William H. Moomaw of Stratford,
Edgar F. Shannon Jr. of the Univer-
sity of Virginia, Luther W. White of
Randolph-Macon in Ashland, and
Henry 1. Willett Jr. of Longwood.

All .of the Richmond area alumni
were invited to the affair, along with
all alumni members of the Virginia
General Assembly. Also invited were
the presidents of the nine W&L alum-
ni chapters in Virginia, and all Uni-
versity trustees and alumni directors
from Virginia.

Virginia college presidents (left to right) William Moomaw, Luther White, Henry
Willett Jr., Edgar Shannon Jr., Robert Huntley, and William Martin.

 

 

 

a
=_

 

CLASS NOTES

 

y

\

 

 

‘THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, 41.

Price: $35.00 f.o.b.

Gardner, Massachusetts

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
NOTICE: Delivery of orders in-
tended for Christmas cannot be

guaranteed if received after No-
vember 1.

 

 

1915

Judge W. C. Little has retired from the
City Court of Brunswick, Ga., a post he has
held for the past 25 years. His son, William
N. Little, a graduate of The Citadel and now
serving as solicitor of the same court, was
elected in August to succeed his father. Judge
Little was first appointed by former Gov.
Ellis Arnold and began service Jan. 1, 1945.
Since that time he has served under six
other governors.

1920

Recently, Beverty A. Davis Jr. and his son,
B. A. Davis III, '51, LL.B., were honored by
the Rocky Mount, Va. legal council. Silver
trays were presented to the two men for
their “devoted service.” The senior Davis
was town attorney from 1951-68. His son, a
member of the law firm of Davis & Davis,
did much of the town’s legal work and is
a candidate for a federal judgeship in the
Western District of Virginia.

1922

W. FRANK PorTLock retired in January, 1967
after long service with Old Dominion To-
bacco Co. He has been active as a member
of the broad of directors of the Boys Club
and an active member of Rotary.

1924

FRANK C. Switzer was recently cited at the
53rd annual banquet of the Harrisonburg-
Rockingham County (Va.) Chamber of Com-
merce as the “outstanding citizen of ow
community.” In presenting the certificate,
the council cited Switzer’s “civic and gov-
ermental leadership as playing an important
role in the building of the Shenandoah Val-
ley Airport, Blue Ridge Community College,
and Shenandoah Valley Juvenile Detention
Home, as well as industrial development of
areas throughout the city.” Switzer, a mem-
ber of the Harrisonburg City Council,
stepped down as mayor last September after
serving for 16 years. He was instrumental in
establishing Camp Shenandoah for Boy
Scouts.

NORFLEET TURNER has been elected vice
chairman of the First National Bank of
Memphis. He will assume responsibility of
all loan departments within the bank. Turner
joined the bank in 1926, was named presi-
dent in 1943 and chairman of the board in

1960.
1925

RICHARD BEARD, Alabama State Commissioner
of Agriculture, has been named Alabama's
Man-of-the-Year in service to agriculture.
Beard became the gist Alabama agriculturist
to be selected for the award. The Progressive
Farmer magazine bases the selection on the
individual’s contributions to agriculture over
a period of time, and not for a single achieve-
ment. He reorganized the State Board of
Agriculture to function more efficiently and
to give greater service to the people of
Alabama.

CLASS NOTES:29

1927

The Rev. Frank D. CHARLTON, minister of
St. Paul United Methodist Church in Abi-
lene, Tex., is also a trustee of McMurry

College.
1928

Since 1965, GERALD F. Horine has been re-
tired from the Ford Motor Co. He was
associated with Ford for g1 years.

1929

The directors of the newly-organized First
National Holding Corporation and the di-
rectors of the First National Bank of Mem-
phis recently elected ALLEN B. MorGAn
chairman of the board of both the bank and
the holding corporation. Morgan has served
the First National Bank for more than 39
years. He was elected executive vice president
in 1946, president in 1960, and chief execu-
tive officer in 1967. Morgan will also hold
a directorship with the First National Hold-
ing Corporation.

Noted jazz writer Harry E. Gopwin_ was
featured Dec. 8 at the Third Annual Jazz
Festival at Manassas, Va. Two of his songs
were introduced—“Jazzman’s Blues” and “My
Memphis Baby.”

1930

SAM RAYDER is retiring as president of the
Rockbridge Bank & Trust Co. of Lexington,
Va. He will remain active as trust officer
and honorary chairman of the board. Rayder
has been associated with the bank since
1924 and worked there while he attended
W&L Law School. He has been president
and trust officer of the bank since 1966.

Dr. JOHN PREsTON Davis, in private practice
of internal medicine in Winston-Salem until
1963, has been a full-time medical director
of the Security Life & Trust Co., a life in-
surance company with headquarters in
Winston-Salem.

1935

JAMEs M. FRANKLIN was appointed executive
director of the YMCA, mainland branch, in
Atlantic City, N.J. The branch’ was
organized only two years ago and is still
in an expansion and building program.

1936

New York Life Insurance Co. has announced
the promotion of vice president—group sales
of Forrest E. HUFFMAN. Huffman joined the
company as an assistant manager in 1950.
After serving in managerial posts in New
York City and Dallas, he was named as-
sistant vice president in 1959 and second
vice president in 1964. He was elected a
vice president in 1967. Huffman is a director
of the New York Board of Trade.

1937

Capt. STEPHEN B. Lee, SC, USN, retired
Dec. 1, 1968 after 28 years of active naval
service.

SO:CLASS NOTES

Calvert Thomas (top), Frank Bell (middle),

and James Sammons.

 

IsApORE M. Scotr is a new member of the
Board of Governors of the Pennsylvania
Economy League. Scott is a leading figure in
the business and civic activities of Phila-
delphia. He is chairman of the Citizens Com-
mittee on School Needs and Resources and is
president of the Philadelphia Council for
International Visitors. Among his many board
memberships are the Abington Memorial
Hospital, Big Brothers of America, Common-
wealth Mental Health Research Foundation,
Federation of Jewish Agencies of Philadelphia.
Also, the Philadelphia Award Board, the
Southeastern Pennsylvania Chapter of Ameri-
can Red Cross, Southeastern Pennsylvania
Mental Health Association, the United Fund
of Philadelphia, and the Volunteer Services
for the Blind.

1938

CALVERT THOMAS, a member of General
Motors’ legal staff and long active in com-
munity affairs, has been elected chairman
of the Board of Directors, Kingswood School
Cranbrook, Bloomfield Hills, Mich. His
election follows the resignation of Richard
C. Van Dusen, who was recently appointed
undersecretary of the U. S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development in Wash-
ington. Thomas earned his LL.B. from the
University of Maryland Law School in 1942.
Before moving to Generals Motors in 1946,
he was attached to the legal staff of the
Solicitor’s Office, U. S. Department of Labor,
the U. S. Tax Court, and Chief Counsel's
Office, U. S. Bureau of Internal Revenue.
‘Thomas was a Franklin Village councilman
and its president for two terms. He has
also been a director of the Franklin Com-
munity Association.

E. ALTON SARTOR JR. of Shreveport, La. has
been elected president of the Shreveport
Association of Building Owners and Man-
agers. The association is affiliated with the
Building Owners and Managers Association
International.

1939

In September, 1968, the Rev. WILLIAM
KIBLER JR. became chaplain and _ supervisor
of the Clinical Pastoral Education at
Children’s Hospital in Columbus, Ohio. He
also serves as supervisor of Chaplaincy Ser-
vices of the Lutheran Welfare League of
Central Ohio and as clinical associate of the
Evangelical Lutheran Theological Seminary.

1940

Living in Jacksonville, Fla., WittitAm_ §.
BuRNS is vice president of Haudaille In-
dustries, Inc., a holding company listed on
the New York Stock Exchange since 1929.
Burns is also president of one of the com-
panies—Haudaille-Duval-Wright Co., Florida’s
largest road and bridge construction organi-
zation and a growing construction materials
business,

194]

WILLIAM LEE SHANNON was elected to the
board of the Kentucky Baptist Hospital and
the Old Masons Home of Kentucky. He

lives in Shelbyville, Ky., where he is chair-
man of the Board of Education for Inde-
pendent School District and is in his fifth
year aS swimming coach at Shelbyville High
School.

Ropert E. STEELE has been elected president
of the Central and North Florida chapter of
the Public Relations Society of America.
Steele is director of public relations at
Electronic Communications, Inc. in St. Peters-

burg, Fla.

1942
BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Atex Hitz JR., a son,
Alex Crawford, Feb. 10, 1969.

1943

ALEXANDER M. MAISH is a computer applica-
tions consultant for Mitre Corp. of McLean,
Va.

Robert C. MEnHORTER is secretary of Home
Insurance Co. in Westfield, N. J. He is also
assistant personnel director for approximately
seven thousand employees.

DONALD FE. GARRETSON was elected to the
board of trustees of Macalester College in
St. Paul, Minnesota.

Joseru E. Lee, domestic sales manager for
McLaughlin Gormley King Co. of Min.
neapolis, Minn, is the new president of the
Chemical Specialties Manufacturer Associa-
tion. Lee has been continually active in
CSMA affairs since 1957, serving on many
committees from program to market de-
velopment functions, principally with the
insecticide division. During the past year, he
served as vice president of the association.

Crum and Forster Insurance Companies have
announced the election of ErRNest E. Smiru
to assistant secretary of the companies.

FRANK R. Bett Jr., of Villanova, Pa., has
been elected assistant vice president of In-
surance Company of North America. He has
served as chairman of several national agents

organizations.
1944

G. EDWARD HEINECKE is vice president of an
advertising agency, Klau-Van-Pieterson-Dun-
lap Inc. in Milwaukee, Wis.

1945

CHARLES S. Rowe, editor of the Free Lance-
Star in Fredericksburg, Va., has been elected
president of the Associated Press Managing
Editors Association.

1946

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ]. MArviN MORELAND,
a daughter, Mary Louise, on Dec. 2

27, 1968.
1947
A practicing physician in Baytown, Tex., Dr.
JAMes H. SAMMONS has been elected chair-
man of the American Medical and Political
Action Committee Board of Directors. Dr.
Sammons has held a number of offices in his

 

Andrew McCutcheon (top), Wallace Wing
(middle), and Norfleet Turner.

county and state medical societies, and pres-
ently serves as a delegate to the American
Medical Association House of Delegates.

1948

H. Perrie MitcHett and family expect to
return to his Presbyterian Mission in Seoul,
Korea for another five-year tour of duty.

CHARLES R. MCDOWELL JR., Washington cor-
respondent for the Richmond Times-Dis-
patch, was recently elected to membership
on the Standing Committee of Correspond-
ents, which supervises the congressional press
galleries. McDowell is one of three new
members on this committee.

ANDREW H. McCutcHeon, a candidate for
Congress in Virginia’s Eighth District in the
recent election, has joined Reynolds Metals
Co. and will become community relations
manager. McCutcheon was formerly an ad-
ministrative assistant to Representative J.
Vaughan Gary and Representative David
Satterfield. Last year he served as a special
assistant for congressional relations for the
Office of Economic Opportunity.

1949

From Kobe, Japan, J. T. MAGRUDER writes
that he is still engaged in student ministry
in Japan, and it continues to be challenging
work in these days of crisis and change in
the academic structures.

The directors of the Rockbridge Bank &
Trust Company of Lexington, Va., have
elected WiLtIAM F. McCorkce president of
the bank to succeed Sam Rayder, ‘30, who
is retiring. McCorkle joined the bank in
1948 and has been vice president and cashier
since 1962. McCorkle is chairman of Group
IV, Virginia Banker’s Association, and has
been nominated for a two-year term on the
Board of Directors of the Virginia’s Banker's
Association.

THOMAS R. GLAss, executive editor and as-
sistant general manager of The News and
The Daily Advance, was recently appointed
by Virginia Gov. Godwin to the State High-
way Commission.

JOHN W. WARNER, newly elected trustee of
Washington and Lee University, has been
named by Secretary of Defense Melvin R.
Laird, on behalf of President Nixon, the
Undersecretary of the Navy.

E. STFWART EpLey became a director of
Charles F. Smith & Co., management con-
sultants, New York, effective Jan. 1, 1969.

The President of the United States has
nominated JAMeEs H. LaAssirer for promotion
to Class 5 in the Foreign Service of the
United States. The promotion resulted from
the recommendation by the 22nd Foreign
Service Selection Boards. Since entering the
Foreign Service in 1951, Lassiter has been
stationed in Frankfurt, Germany, and the
reception center in San Francisco, Calif. He
is presently assigned to the Department of
State as a public affairs officer in the Bureau
of Public Affairs.

CLASS NOTES.31

Dr. Davin K. CALDWELL is director of
Marineland Research Laboratory in_ St.

Augustine, Fla.
1950

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. C. WILLIAM PAcy, a
son, David Hilary, on Dec. 9, 1968. Pacy is
working with F. H. Durkee Enterprises, a
theater chain, and is also coaching lacrossee
with the Carling Lacrosse Club.

JAmMes A. CONNELLY JR. has been appointed
general manager of the Tampa, Fla. casualty
and surety division office of Aetna Life and
Casualty Co. Connely joined Aetna in 1955
at Newark, N.J., and was named superinten-
dent at Buffalo in 1960. He advanced to
manager of the marketing department at
Washington, D.C. in 1962, and served as
general manager at Buffalo for the past
three years.

The Wisconsis Steel division of International
Harvester Co. announces that WALLACE E.
WING JR. became assistant works manager

Nov. 1, 1968.
1951

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Rosert Lee Hopkins
JR. announce the adoption of a son, Robert
Lee IV, who was born Feb. 4, 1969. The
family lives in Ashland, Va., where Hopkins
is registrar at Randolph-Macon College. Dean
and Mrs. Frank J. Gilliam are the maternal
grandparents.

WILLIAM Harvey Kye Jr. and his family
are in their fifth year in Japan, and expect
to be there indefinitely. He has been affiliated
with Pickands Mather & Co., Int., which has
recently merged with Diamond Shamrock
Corp. He is regional manager for Asia.

FREDERICK G. UHLMANN has been elected to a
two-year term’on the Arbitration Commit-
tee of the Chicago Board of Trade. A partner
in the brokerage firm of H. Hentz & Co.,
Uhlmann has been a member of the Chicago
Board of Trade since 1951. He has previ-
ously served on the Arbitration Committee
and also on the Exchange’s Appeals Com-
mittee from 1958-60.

Included in the top elections of the First
National Bank and the First National Hold-
ing Corp. of Memphis was NoORFLEET R.
TURNER as senior vice president for the First
National Holding Corp.

At a recent directors meeting of the Rock-
bridge Bank & Trust Co. of Lexington,
GEORGE PFRSINGER was named vice president.
Persinger joined the bank in September,
1966 after being associated for eight years
with the College Town Shop in Lexington.

Jack E. Greer, partner in the Norfolk law
firm of Williams, Worrell, Kelly & Worth-
ington, has been elected president of the
Norfolk-Portsmouth Bar Association.

1952
Highland Federal Savings & Loan As-
sociation of Baltimore has elected GIDEON
N. StieFF JR. a director. Stieff is vice presi-
dent of the Stieff Co., and a member of the
Economic Development Commission of Balti-
more.

52;CLASS NOTES

Robert Connally (top), Robert Conrad
(middle), and Robert Wallace.

 

Commander Rosert F. CONNALLY, USN, re-
cently returned from Vietnam after serving
a year as senior advisor, Vietnamese Navy
Third Costal Zone, as well as commander,
Southern Surveillance Group, with joint
headquarters in Bung Tau. Commander Con-
nally has been awarded two Bronze Star
Medals. He also received the Vietnamese
Cross of Gallantry with Silver Star, and
the Vietnamese Medal of Honor (First Class).

1953

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM E. RAWLINGs,
a daughter, Lesley Ann, on June 11, 1968.
Rawlings is region director, Northern Eu-
rope, for General Food International, head-
quartered in Hamburg, Germany.

BRANTLEY (BILL) BARR, who joined Eastman
Dillon August, 1968, has been appointed di-
rector of public relations. He will be re-
sponsible for the firm’s public relations, ad-
vertising, and internal communications pro-
grams. Before joining Eastman Dillon, Barr
worked for AT&T and several associated Bell
System companies. He was advertising man-
ager for the C&P Telephone Co. in Wash-
ington, D.C. until last summer.

JAY JACKSON is a state senator from West
Hartford, Conn. Jackson was a member of
the West Hartford Town Council before re-
signing to run for the senate. Jackson is a
former special hearing officer for the De-
partment of Justice.

An ABC commentary on Feb. 9 featured WIL-
LIAM V. TROLLINGER, a consulting geologist
who was among the experts whose opinions
were expressed on a Louisville program,
“The View From Space.” The program ex-
amined what man has seen and done in the
past 10 years of space exploration, and the
effects of these findings on his future en-
vironment.

Rospert F. Ducuay of Stamford, Conn. has
been elected vice president and trust officer
of the State National Bank. Formerly in the
trust department of the bank’s Stamford
executive office, Duguay has now been trans-
ferred to the bank’s Danbury executive
office.

Dr. NATHAN SALKy is in private practice of
internal medicine and cardiology and is also
associate professor of medicine at the Uni-
versity of Tennessee in Memphis.

Grolier, Inc. has acquired Scarecrow Press,
Inc., according to ALBERT W. Daus. Scare-
crow Press, Inc. publishes reference and sys-
tems material for library use. The new com-
pany will be known as the Scarecrow Press
Division of the Grolier Education Corp.
Daub has been named vice president and
sales manager.

Among the personnel changes announced by
Armstrong Cork Co. in January was the
promotion of RALPH V. Bray from manager
of the floor advertising section to assistant
director of advertising and promotion.

The Life Insurance Co. of Virginia has an-
nounced the appointment of Rosert L. Con-
RAD JR. to assistant secretary and manager
of the claims division.

1954

Reader’s Digest is transferring Rospert G.
WALLAcE to Atlanta, Ga., where he will be-
come manager of its sales office. The trans-
fer is expected to take place in March, 1969.

WILLIAM R. CARRINGTON JONES has been elect-
ed president of the Real Estate Board of
Memphis. Jones is one of the youngest real-
tors ever to be chosen president. He has been
in the organization since 1956 and has held
local board offices of first vice president and
secretary-treasurer. Jones holds the senior
residential appraiser designation of the So-
ciety of Real Estate Appraisers and is a cer-
tified property manager as designated by the
Institute of Real Estate Management.

An associate editor of The Virginian-Pilot,
GLENN ALLEN Scott, has been elected presi-
dent of the Norfolk Forum. The organization,
now in its g5th season, brings prominent
journalists, historians, novelists, scientists,
politicians, and other personalities to Nor-
folk for lectures and discussions at the Cen-
ter Theater.

GeorGeE H. Greer has been appointed by
Kentucky Gov. Nunn to be the legislative
member of the Southern Educational Coun-
cil. The group is made up of the Governor,
two university presidents, and a legislator
from each of fifteen Southern states.

1955

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILEY W. SPURGEON
Jr., a son, Thomas Martin, on Dec. 16, 1968.

For two and a half years, Boyp CLopToNn was
head fashion designer of sportswear for Lu-
bella’s of California. He is now enjoying a
career as an independent costume designer,
and has such clients as The Fifth Dimension,
Aretha Franklin, Bobbie Gentry, and Spanky
and Our Gang.

JAMes A. REEDER was named Outstanding
Young Man of 1968 by the Shreveport Jay-
cees in January. He is a partner in the law
firm of Booth, Lockard, Jack Pleasant &
LeSage. He received his LL.B. degree from
the University of Texas in 1960. He also
holds a law degree from Louisiana State Uni-
versity and was admitted to the Louisiana
Bar in 1961. He is an active member of the
local, state, and national bar associations
and has held various offices in the three or-
ganizations.

L. C. PALMER is principal staff engineer with
Communications & Systems, Inc., headquar-
tered in Falls Church, Va.

LAURENCE LeEvITAN has formed a new law
firm under the name of Sisk, Levitan, Cram-
er & Weinstein. He and PAUL WEINSTEIN, ’55,
maintain offices in Rockville, Md., and also
in Washington, D.C.

HARRISON SOMERVILLE JR. is senior vice presi-
dent of sales for Thomas Somerville Co. of
Washington, D.C.

1956

Emery Industries, a chemical manufacturer
in Cincinnati, Ohio, has announced the ap-

 

Hugh Hamilton Jr.

pointment of Don E. FrypurGer as marketing
director. He will have marketing responsi-
bilities for Sanitone dry cleaning products,
Emberbrite industrial products, Adjusta-
drape franchises, Cissell Manufacturing Co.,
and the Stamford Chemical Co., all divisions
of Emery Industries.

DANIEL B. THompson II has just been
named by Campbell Soup Co. as manager of
container purchasing.

The News Tribune of Beaver Falls, Pa. car-
ried a special supplement in December, 1968,
entitled “The Iron Curtain Special.” All but
two of the articles in the 16-page edition
were written by WILLIAM B. Norrurop, pub-
lisher. This special edition was the result of
photographs, articles, and writings made on
a trip behind the Iron Curtain, sponsored
by the Pennsylvania Newspaper Publishers
Association. The articles by Northrop re-
lated impressions and experiences during
this tour of the USSR.

Perer Q. Nyce Jr. has recently been admit-
ted to practice before the U.S. Supreme

Court.
1957

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. Roperr C. Toute, a
daughter, Claudia Tolle, on Aug. 9, 1968.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. G. Russett Lapp III, a
son, Allan Hunter, on July 28, 1968.

CHARLES F. Davis JR. is manager of the First
National City Bank, Osaka, Japan branch.

From 1957-62, JAMES R. Creet was a U.S.
Marine Corps pilot with the White House
helicopter group. Following release from
active duty, he became assistant to the vice
president of New York Airways. Creel is
currently working on the floor of the New
York Stock Exchange.

A report from C. PETER LEININGER advises
that he was transferred from Cleveland to
Dayton, Ohio as controller of the Dayton
plant of MHarris-‘Seybold Co., division of
Harris-Intertype Corp.

The vice president of Systems Engineering
Corp. in Chester, Va. is JOHN G. FiIREBAUGH.
The business is a service organization offer-
ing professional assistance to computer own-

ers and users.
1958

MARRIED: VERNON W. HOLLEMAN Jr. and
Elizabeth Christenberry, a 1964 Hollins
graduate, were married on Jan. 13, 1968 in
Knoxville, Tenn.

Dr. MARK SMULSON has received a two-year
grant from the American Cancer Society to
do research on molecular biology at George-
town University School of Medicine, where
he is an assistant professor in the biochemis-
try department.

RICHARD A. Moore is a partner in the real
estate firm of Gaylord Brooks & Co. in Bal-
timore, Md.

Bos NEUNREITER has rejoined Gardner Ad-
vertising Agency in St. Louis, Mo. as ac-
count executive.

 

GLASS NOTES :33

BARRY RICHARD GOLDsMiITH, CPA, has recently
become a partner in the firm of Philip Auer-
bach & Co. of Hicksville, N. Y.

H. Tupor HALL has been in Beech Island,
S.C., where he has formed the Hall Insur-
ance & Realty Co.

A surgeon with the division of experimental
surgery, Walter Reed Army Institute of Re-
search, Major IRwIN R. BERMAN has been pre-
sented the Bronze Star Medal for meritor-
ious service with the trauma study section,
Army Medical Research Team in Vietnam.

ALLEN R. GITTER, an associate in the law
firm of Womble, Carlyle, Sandridge & Rice
since 1963, was made a partner in the firm
in January. The firm is located in Winston-
Salem, N.C., where Allan has been a di-
rector of the Children’s Center and is cur-
rently on the executive committee of the
Red Shield Girls Club.

Arcuié O. JENKINS II is presently associated
with Courts & Co., a member of the New
York Stock Exchange.

1959

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. SAMUEL S. MERRICK, a
son, Samuel S. Jr., on Sept. 29, 1968.

Remaining in the political arena, ROBERT
C. KerrcHAM is administrative assistant to
Congressman F. Bradford Morse of the Fifth
District, Massachusetts.

Owen H. Harper has entered Harvard
Business School’s program for management
development.

Formerly with the Pittsburgh National Bank,
Joun G. Koeper Jr. is now in Warren, Pa.,
where he is assistant treasurer for National

Forge Co.
1960

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ALLEN MEAD FERGUSON,
a son, Allen Mead Jr., on July 23, 1968. Fer-
guson is a registered representative with the
Richmond investment firm of Craigie, Inc.

CHARLES S. CHAMBERLIN has been with Aetna
Life Insurance Co. since 1964. He is head-
quartered in Hartford, Conn., where he is
field supervisor in the mortgage loan depart-
ment.

For the past two years, RICHARD ABERSON and
his family have been in San Salvador where
he is an assistant manager of the San Sal-
vador branch of the First National City
Bank of New York.

HucH G. HAMILTON JR. has been named
by President Nixon a foreign service officer
of the United States. Hamilton received his
appointment after successfully completing
highly competitive written and oral exam-
inations. Within a few weeks, Hamilton ex-
pects to be assigned to a position with an
embassy or consulate in one of the 113
countries in which the United States main-
tains diplomatic relations, or with the De-
partment of State in Washington, D.C.

MIke PooLr is producing television docu-
mentaries for the CBC. A former commenta-
tor for the CBC, he changed over into pro-

§4CLASS NOTES

Tain Tompkins

 

duction and now is getting an opportunity
to do some interesting programs on natural
resources and the like. He reports that he
is particularly fond of that most masochis-
tic of sports—back packing.

W. Hayes GOweN Jr. has been advanced to
vice president and trust officer of the First
National Bank of Memphis.

FREDERICK H. BELDEN JR. has moved from
New York City to Charleston, W. Va. to be-
come personnel director with the Kanawha

Valley Bank.
1961

BORN: The Rev. and Mrs. G. PALMER PArRD-
INGTON III, a son, Robert William, on Dec.
11, 1968. Rev. Pardington is studying for
his doctorate at Graduate Theological
Union, Pacific School of Religion, Berkeley,
Cal.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RAYMAN LOVELACE, a
daughter, Katherine Wendell Hewett, on
Feb. 24, 1968. He is associated with Merrill,
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith in Louisville.

Blair Television of New York has announced
that Winston E. Kock Jr. has joined their
expanded sales promotion staff as assistant
creative director.

After receiving his medical degree from
Duke University in 1965, JoHN G. PowELL
also did his internship and _ residency in
pediatrics at Duke University. In July, 1968,
he entered the U.S. Navy, and is currently
at the Naval Air Base Hospital in Memphis.

After completing three years in the Navy,
Dick KUERSTEINER has become an assistant
attorney general for the state of Florida.

CHARLES C. Bowie JR. is now practicing law
with the firm of Brault, Graham, Scott &
Brault in Rockville, Md.

Located in McLean, Va., WALTER J. CRATER
Jk. is working for Radiation Systems, Inc.
as an engineer. He is also pursuing a masters
of engineering at George Washington Uni-

versity.
BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. BOYLE Jr., a
daughter, Deborah Helen, on Feb. 7, 1969.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. V. LANCE TARRANCE,
a son, V. Lance III, in August 1968. During
the last presidential campaign, he was deputy
director of research for the Republican party.
Recently he has been promoted by the
chairman of the Republican National Com-
mittee to the position of director of research.

After graduating from Tulane Medical School
in 1966, C. MARK WHITEHEAD did two years
of post graduate training. He is now in the
Navy.

In January, Hersert P. SApp JR. became a
partner in the law firm of Henderson, Buch-
anan & Sapp, with offices in Tallahassee and
Panama City, Fla.

1963

MARRIED: Rospert WEEKS BRIDEWELL and
Sheryl Watson Shepherd were married on

Dec. 29, 1968 in the Aspen Community
Church, Aspen, Colo.

MARRIED: The wedding of Warkins C.
JOHNsTON JR. and Carol Pope Kennedy took
place Nov. 29, 1968.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. PAUL GoRDON MCBRIDE,
a son, Paul Main, on Jan. 29, 1969.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Davin T. H. SPENCER,
a daughter, Jenifer Louise, on Oct. 8, 1968.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES C. HART, a
son, Charles Caldwell Jr., on Sept. 27, 1968.

J. M. Gore Friepricus has recently been
named a partner in the New Orleans-based
investment securities firm of Howard, Weil,
Labouisse, Friedrichs & Co.

EDWIN P. GARRETON JR. received a Fulbright
graduate fellowship to complete his dis-
sertation for the Univeristy of Chicago. He
is presently in Vienna.

JoserpH L. Topinka of Riverside, Ill. has re-
cently been elected treasurer of Standard
Structural Steel, Inc. of Chicago. He holds
an M.B.A. degree from Northwestern Uni-
versity and a CPA certificate from the Uni-
versity of Illinois.

ALLAN JOHNSON has returned from a year
of service in Vietnam, where he served as
chief of munitions supply for the Seventh Air
Force headquarters. He was recommended
for the commendation medal and a Bronze
Star.

Having been admitted recently to the Florida
Bar, Bos Hart is practicing with the Pensa-
cola firm of Harrell, Caro, Middlebrooks &
Wiltshire.

CLARENCE RENSHAW has recently changed
employment and is now with the news de-
partment of KTRK-TV in Houston.

1964

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp S. Crorrt III,
a son, Edward S. IV, on Jan. 8, 1969.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Floyp W. MCKINNON,
a son, James Wingfield, on Oct. 25, 1968.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Barry A. GREENE,
twin sons, Brian Richard and David Lawr-
ence, on Jan. 27, 1969.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN WESLEY CLARK
Jk,. a son, John Wesley III, on Dec. 12, 1968.

GEORGE B. SPAULDING has been working with
an American management consulting firm
based in Copenhagen, Denmark since _ re-
ceiving his M.S. degree from the London
School of Economics in 1967.

Joun L. Barrett is president of the Long
Beach Chamber of Commerce.

TAIN P. Tompkins has been named by Presi-
dent Nixon as a foreign service officer of the
United States. He received his master’s de-
gree from Johns Hopkins School of Advanced
International Studies.

After returning from Vietnam in July, 1968,
FREDERICK J. KRALL is employed with Gen-
eral Foods Corp.

WILLIAM B. (Buck) OcILvie JR. is super-
visor of technical systems for Occidental
Petroleum Corp.

Dr. HArry L. PAR etre III is an intern at
the U. S. Naval Hospital in Oakland, Calif.

Following graduation from Indiana Uni-
versity Law School in June, 1967, CHARLEs D.
KIMBELL was admitted to the Illinois Bar.
In January, 1968, he went on active duty
with the U. S. Army and is presently serving
with the 177 MP detachment in Vietnam.

FIELDER ISRAEL JR. is in the installment credit
department of Riggs National Bank _ in
Washington, D.C.

1965

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ALLAN C. HuBBARD, a
daughter, Katherine Bibb, on Nov. 27, 1968.

E. MORGAN KELLEY Jr. received his doctorate
in German from Michigan State University
in 1968. He is now an assistant professor of
modern languages at William and Mary
College.

Upon graduation, ALLAN H. GRAEFF Jr. be-
came a Peace Corps volunteer trainee at
Cornell University. Graeff is now beginning
his second year as regional representative.
Upon termination of his contract, Graeff
plans to enter graduate school, perhaps in
public administration.

The Life Insurance Co. of Virginia has an-
nounced the appointment of Francis A.
SUTHERLAND JR. as its counsel.

Following receipt of his law degree from
the University of Maryland in June, 1968,
ALEXANDER P. RAsIN III entered the Army.

J. C. Perer Wiyrretp has joined Shell Oil
Co. as a salesman in Washington, D.C.

Rosert G. THOMAs is associated with Smith,
Barney & Co., in New York.

1966

MARRIED: Joun A. B. PALMER and Martha
Carol Joiner were married Sept. 7, 1968 in
Decatur, Ga.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HArpwick STUART JR.,
a daughter, Sarah S., Jan. 6, 1969.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM S. BAKER, a
son, William Sizer Jr., on Nov. 26, 1968.

Roperrt Lee TAytor Larus Jr. is with the
First & Merchants Bank in Richmond in
their management training program. He
previously spent some time working in their
international department in Rhodesia.

Since June, 1966, BAxrer L. Davis has been
associated with the law firm of Nall, Miller,
Cadenhead & Dennis in Atlanta.

After serving as regimental advisor to a
Vienamese infantry battalion for one year,
Captain JAMEs K. BRUTON JR. is now on a
Voluntary extended tour of duty as a _para-

troop advisor with the Eighth Vietnamese
Airborne battalion.

At the University of Illinois, Scorr KENNEDY
is continuing his third year of graduate stud-
ies in biochemistry.

CHARLES T. BIsTANy is serving as law secre-
tary to the Hon. Dorethea E. Donaldson,
judge of New York State Court of Claims.

Davin N. MARcHEsE has recently been pro-
moted to account executive in Ogilvy &
Mather advertising firm in New York City.

Serving with the U. S. Air Force, Lt. Bruce
W. Riper is an intelligence officer at the
Tactical Air Warfare Center at Eglin AFB
in Florida.

Currently in the judge advocate general's
corps, Capt. Robert R. BALDWIN is stationed
at Fort Dix.

Currently in his final year at St. John Uni-
versity’s School of Law, JoHN E. MyYNTTINEN
is vice president of his senior class and a
member of the editorial board of St. John’s

Law Review.
1967

MARRIED: WARREN E. Stewart and Brooks
Dorn were married Aug. 24, 1968. Among the
groomsmen and guests at the wedding were
John West, ‘65, Lt. James Oram, '67, W.
Scott Miller, 67, and Logan Bullitt, '67.

After receiving his M.A. in criminology from
the University of Pennsylvania in August,
Kip ARMSTRONG is currently working with the
readjustment unit of the Youth Reception
and Correction Center in Yardville, N. J.

W. LAwreNCE FELLMAN has joined the fac-
ulty at Wiley College in Marshall, Tex. as an
instructor of economics.

After earning an M.A. degree in philosophy
from Northwestern University in 1967,
Tuomas C. Davis III is presently serving
in the U. S. Navy.

James A. TYLeR is now associated with the
stock brokerage firm of Scott & Stringfellow
in Richmond, Va.

C. WARREN MONTGOMERY is working as a
Peace Corps geologist in the Dominican Re-
public. He expects to teach geology in a
Dominican university.

1968

Presently working towards his master’s de-
gree in industrial engineering, Roperr A.
CASHILL is now at VPI. He also holds a
graduate teaching assistantship and is teach-
ing undergraduate courses.

Having passed the bar exams for the state
of Maine, PARKER DeENACo is practicing with
the firm of Eaton, Peabody, Bradford &
Veague of Bangor, Me.

1969

Howarp A. COHN expects to graduate from
Memphis State College in January, 1969, and
he has been accepted by Ohio State Uni-
versity’s Graduate School of Political Science.

CLASS NOTES:35

IN MEMORIAM

1900

The Rev. Batrte McLesrer of Chattanooga,
Tenn. died in November of 1968.

1903

Henry CaAtwett Cor, of Front Royal, Va.,
died Nov. 24, 1968. He had been a Warren
County educator for nearly 50 years. Coe
was teacher and assistant principal at Ran-
dolph-Macon Academy in Front Royal from
1904-33. From 1933 until his retirement in
1953, he was assistant principal at Warren
County High School.

1906

MILTON HERMAN, associated in the mercantile
business for many years, died Oct. 23, 1968
in Danville, Va. Herman received his law
degree at Columbia University, and practiced
in Danville before World War I. During
World War I, he served with Captain
Letcher’s “Rockbridge Artillery,” which be-
came part of the 111th Field Artillery. Fol-
lowing the war, he became associated with
his father in business until 1946, when he
became president of Statesville (N.C.) Cot-

ton Mills.
1907

Dr. WILLIAM WALTER HArGRAve, retired
Navy commodore, died Jan. 23, 1969 after a
long illness. He lived in Portsmouth for the
past 17 years. Dr. Hargrave was a 1912
graduate of the Medical College of Virginia.
He entered the Navy in 1913, and at the
time of his retirement in 1949 he was senior
medical officer at the Naval Academy in
Annapolis. From 1949-59, he was district
health officer of the Virginia State Health

Department.
1909

WittiAMm Coucn Davis Jr., one-time civil
engineer with the Brazil Railway, died Dec.
1, 1968 in Norfolk, Va.

GEORGE ROBERT BURTNER, a prominent Dallas
engineer, died Jan. 3, 1969. A native of Mt.
Clinton, Va., Burtner moved to Dallas soon
after graduation from Washington and Lee,
and he retired in 1962 after 53 years in
engineering work.

191]

Judge WILLIAM FRANK BLANTON, dean of
Dade County (Fla.) judges, died Jan. 20, 1969.
Judge Blanton began law practice in 1911,
shortly after graduation from Washington
and Lee. Three years later, he began his
public career when voters of Miami elected
him municipal judge. Appointed to the
county bench in 1918, Judge Blanton ran
for the same office every four years, and
had opposition only twice. Over the years,

36:CLASS NOTES

he became a walking library of Florida
probate law, much of which he helped to
formulate. Judge Blanton was a member
of the County Judge’s Association, of which
he served as president, and the Dade and
Florida Bar Associations.

Judge CHARLES WALTER MAson, former chief
justice of the Oklahoma Supreme Court, died
Jan. 15, 1969. Judge Mason, a native of
Ohio, was elected to the Oklahoma Supreme
Court in 1924, and served until 1930. He
served as county attorney and district judge
before being appointed to the high court.

1912

JAMEs NIXON DANIEL, a practicing attorney
in Chipley, Fla., died Jan. 16, 1968.

ROBERT RUSSELL BLAKE, former assistant man-
ager with Armour & Co. and later associated
with the Dulengue Packing Co., died May
g, 1968 in Clemmons, N.C. In 1946, Blake
moved to Winston-Salem, where he was in
charge of 33 counties for the Jaynes Manu-
facturing Co. of Chicago., Ill.

Judge JAmMes O. Day, former attorney and
state senator from the 27th District of
Mississippi, died Dec. 31, 1968 in Brook-
haven, Miss. After serving in World War
I, Judge Day returned to his native Mis-
sissippi, where he practiced law. In 1927,
was elected a state senator. In 1932, he was
appointed Circuit Court judge of the 17th
Judicial District. From 1938-45, Judge Day
was United States attorney for the Northern
District of Mississippi. From 1945-48, he held
the post of counsel for the District of
Columbia. Judge Day retired in 1953 after
serving five years as regional attroney, U.S.
Treasury Department, in Atlanta, Ga.

Maurice Bejyacn died Oct. go, 1968 in
Castro Valley, Calif. He was a retired high
school teacher and administrator. He studied
at Colorado College and had brief teaching
assignments in both Colorado and Okla-
homa. In 1929, he moved to California and
began teaching in Taft, remaining at this
post until 1947 when he voluntarily retired.
Bejach taught science, mathematics and

photography.
1914

Puitie L. Baird, engineer and contractor,
died Nov. 30, 1968 in Roanoke, Va.

1915

Junius B. Peake, formerly sales director for
Mathieson Alkali Works, died Jan. 13, 1969.

Rospert P. ADAMS, long-time attorney in
Trenton, Tenn., died Nov. 16, 1968 in
Memphis. Adams had been a former city
attorney for Trenton.

ROBERT WARREN WINBORNE died in Rich-
mond, Va. on Dec. 26, 1968. He was form-
erly a U.S. Veterans Administration attorney.

1917

Joun Lestie WILLIAMS, long-time executive
with the Bristol Co. of Waterbury, Conn.,
died in August, 1968.

1918

Lester DALLAS ARNOLD, SrR., general sales
manager for H. F. Byrd, Inc. from 1926
until his retirement in 1966, died Dec. 10
in Winchester, Va. Arnold was clerk of the
Committee on Foreign Affairs in the House
of Representatives and secretary to the late
Congressman Henry D. Flood of Virginia
before becoming associated with the late
Sen. Harry F. Byrd, first in Richmond and
Washington, D.C., and then in Winchester.
He was manager for Byrd when Byrd ran
for governor. Later, in early 1933, he
organized Byrd’s office in the Senate Office
Building in Washington.

1919

Joun A. MILLER Jr., former vice president
of Kingsport Extract Corp., died in Radford,
Va. on Oct. 26, 1968.

192]

J. Boyp Hoke, well-known resident, construc-
tion engineer and contractor of Martinsburg,
W.Va., died Jan. 24, 1969. After graduation
from Washington and Lee, he was employed
by the State Road Commission of West
Virginia. Later, he worked for Albright and
Mebus Engineers of Philadelphia and_ for
the Interstate Amesite Co. In 1938, Hoke
formed the Potomac Construction and High-
way Materials Co. He was also a_ partner
in the Asphalt Products Co. Professionally,
Hoke was a Fellow in the American Society
of Civil Engineers, past president of the
West Virginia section of the Society of Civil
Engineers, and past president of the West
Virginia Contractors Association.

1922

KENNETH E. Hines, clerk of the State Supreme
Court of Appeals in Charleston, W. Va.,
died Dec. 27, 1968. Hines practiced law in
Sutton, W. Va., before moving to Charleston
in 1933 as an assistant attorney general.
He served in that post for 13 years, then
returned to private practice. In 1950, he re-
ceived the appointment as Supreme Court

clerk.
1929

Dr. RicHARD W. HeEnprix, former health
officer of Butler, Conecuh, and Escambia
counties of Alabama, died Sept. 12, 1968.
At the time of his death, Dr. Hendrix was
employed by the Veterans Administration
in Montgomery as a medical rating specialist.
Dr. Hendrix returned to private practice fol-
lowing his discharge from military service,
and in 1955 he was appointed health officer
for the three South Alabama counties.

1930

EpwArD Lee Marsu of Roanoke, Va. died
on Nov. 20, 1968.

Morton E, Papcetr Jr., a Democratic party
leader in Bedford County, Virginia, died
Jan. 13, 1969. He was chairman of the
Bedford County Democratic Committee from
1936-52, and had assumed the post again

in 1964. A native of Franklin County, Padgett
practiced law in Bedford County for ap-
proximately 40 years.

1933

JAMES PICKENS WALKER JR., veteran news-
man and news editor of the Florida Times-
Union, died Jan. 2, 1969 in Jacksonville,
Fla. Walker joined the Times-Union news
staff as assistant state news editor in 1939,
after working as a reporter for the Savannah
Morning News. He was news editor of the
Times-Union for more than 20 years.

Judge RicHarp T. Epwarps, former mayor
and judge of Roanoke Hustings Court, died
Dec. 11, 1968. Judge Edwards practiced
law in Roanoke for thirty years with the
firm of Copenhaver & Edwards before his
appointment to the bench in 1964. His
partner, John D. Copenhaver, ‘33, was a
boyhood friend through grammar school and

college.
1937

JAmMes B. Akers, former executive of South-
eastern Railway Supply, Inc., died Oct. 29,
1968.

An airplane crash at Vientiene, Thailand on
Jan. 5, 1969 claimed the life of Dr. Jon P.
EvANs. Dr. Evans was medical officer at
the American Embassy at Bangkok, Thai-
land, and was Southeast Asia medical officer
for the State Department. Dr. Evans spent
11 years as advisor to various governments
around the world on problems of public
health. He served with Gen. Matthew Ridg-
way’s headquarters, First Army headquarters,
Kennedy General Hospital in Memphis, and
the office of surgeon general.

1942

JAcKsoN A. HAusLeIN died Feb. 1, 1969 at
Bryn Mawr Hospital. Hauslein’ was as-
sociated with E. F. Haughton & Co. of
Philadelphia and had been owner-operator
of the Hauslein Insurance Agency for many
years.

A. Massie YuILLE, deputy regional vice presi-
dent of State Farm Insurance Co., died Dec.
12, 1968 in Charlottesville, Va.

1943

JOHN W. STANLEY, prominent young Evans-
ville, Ind. realtor and former clothing store
operator, died Jan. 7, 1969. He founded the
Stanley Realtor Agency, Inc. in 1967, after
closing the Stanley Clothing Co. of Evans-
ville. He was a director of the National
City Bank and was a member of the
Evansville Board of Realtors.

1972

JoserH DesHaA Dinter, 18-year-old son of
Charles P. Didier, ‘42, and a freshman from
Maumee, Ohio, died of a heart attack on
Sept. 18, 1968, the first day of practice for
Washington and Lee’s soccer team. The
funeral service was in Lee Chapel and burial
was in the Stonewall Jackson Cemetery in
Lexington.

 

ee ee

;

 

~~

_ A PUBLISHING EVENT OF EXTRAORDINARY
SIGNIFICANCE FOR WASHINGTON AND LEE

GENERAL LEE’S COLLEGE
A History of Washington and Lee University

- by Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw

Professor of History and Head of the Department
To be Published in May by Random House, New York

? PRICE: $10.00

This book is a work of devotion and painstaking
scholarship on the part of the University’s distinguished
| —_— historian. It will have deep meaning for everyone who

ote ed | Bs 5 has shared the Washington and Lee experience. For
Se a = oe. all, it is an important record of the development of one
of the nation’s great institutions.

Here is the story of Washington and Lee University
as only Dr. Crenshaw could tell it—from its beginning
as a small classical academy to a place of prominence
in education that continues today. It is a story of crises
ee a met and overcome, of self-sacrifice for the good of the
2)... SJ Se OE « institution, of changing perspectives, of unusual educa-
| ee , tional foresight, of personalities, great teachers, out-
standing administrators, distinguished alumni who per-
sonify the best of Washington and Lee.

It is a book no alumnus of Washington and Lee,
no friend of Washington and Lee, no patron of higher
education can afford to be without. Be sure to obtain a
first edition copy. Please fill in and return the attached
order form today. Mail it to The Bookstore, Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450, together

e ~~ | with your payment of $10.00 plus a 75-cent handling
Dr. Crenshaw reads galley proofs of his book. charge for each copy purchased.

-)

 

 

Order Form

THE BOOKsTORE
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

Please send me copy(ies) of General Lee’s College, a history of Washington and Lee University
by Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw, at $10.00 each. (Include 75-cent handling charge for each copy purchased).

: Name
Address

 

“pt Zip Code

Payment of $ is enclosed.

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON & LEE ALUMNUS

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Campus Calendar

 

