WINTER 1962

The Fanciest
F ancy Dress

een

sete
eas

 

Regional Agents for 1962

At the time this magazine goes to press, the men listed
below have accepted the responsibility of regional agent in
their community. More agents will be needed to complete the
roster. The regional program will go into effect on April 15th.
Please give support to the University by lending every as-
sistance to these regional agents.

Alexandria, Louisiana—Judge George M. Foote, ’40, P.O.
Box 1987

Alexandria, Virginia—Townsend Oast, 751, 30 Bolling Road

Anderson, South Carolina—Alvin T. Fleishman, °41, P.O.
Drawer 1049

Arlington, Virginia—Charles F. Suter, ’33, 4909 North Rock
Spring Road

Ashland, Kentucky—Richard O. Parmelee, ’32, Ventura Hotel

Augusta, Georgia—Hale Barrett, 50, Southern Finance Build-
ing, 10th Floor

Baltimore, Maryland—David F.. Ryer, ’51, 225 Stanmore Road

Bedford, Virginia—Hugh H. Bond, 753, 116 East Main Street

Bristol, er eee ci Bradley, Jr., ’39, 511 West Valley

rive

Charleston, South Carolina—Joseph H. McGee, Jr., ’50, 2-A
Ladson Street

ee Virginia—A. Massie Yuille, ’42, 932 Rosser

ane

Chattanooga, Tennessee—Wesley G. Brown, ’51, 1115 Hamil-
ton Bank Building

Chicago, Illinois—William C. Olendorf, ’46, 1103 Hillcrest,
Highland Park, Illinois

Cincinnati, Ohio—Stanley A. Hooker, Jr., ’39, 1185 Beverly
Hills Drive

Clarksdale, Mississippi—Joseph F. Ellis, Jr., ’43, Friars Point

Road
Cleveland, Ohio—James D. Bonebrake, 754, 925 Superior
Boulevard

Columbia, ee Carolina—Claude Moore Walker, ’41, Box
359

Columbus, Ohio—H. Thorpe Minister, Jr., ’49, 317 North

Columbia Avenue
Covington, Virginia—Roscoe B. Stephenson, Jr., ’43, Box 628
Cumberland, Maryland—William LL. Wilson, ’38, 527 Wash-
ington Street
Dallas, Texas—Edwin A. Nesbitt, ’32, 7514 Greenbrier
Danville, oleae L,. Roediger, Jr., °41, P. O. Drawer

Emporia, Virginia—Lyman C. Harrell, III, ’59, 529 Ingle-
side Avenue

Fort Worth, Texas—Clay J. Berry, Jr., °50, 2124 Pembroke

Frankfort, Kentucky—Wesley V. Perry, Jr., 25, 3 Riverview

Greenville, South Carolina—William B. Dunson, ’42, 9 East
Fairview Avenue, Northgate Heights

Hagerstown, Maryland—Merle G. Kaetzel, 31, Potomac Edi-
son Company

Harrisonburg, Virginia—Lyle Maddox Armentrout, ’28, Route
No. 2

Hartford, Connecticut—Richard T. Scully, 36, 35 Lafayette

Street
Houston, Texas—Robert W. Davis, Jr., ’30, 1547 Esperson
Building

Huntington, West Virginia—Noel P. Copen, 757, Box 2185

Indianapolis, Indiana—A. T. Bishop, Jr., ’41, Rolling Hills
Farm, R.R. 17, Box 596

Johnson City, Tennessee—Robert P. London, jr., ’27, P.O.
Box 831

Kansas City, Missouri—Carl D. Swanson, ’54, 310 West 49th
Street

Knoxville, Tennessee—Edward S. Metcalf, ’38, c/o Fidelity
Bankers Trust Co., 502 South Gay Street

Long Island, New York—Kenneth B. Van de Water, Jr., ’41,
174 Parsons Drive, Hempstead

Louisville, Kentucky—John J. Davis, Jr., 739, 513 Club Lane

Lynchburg, Virginia—Kiah T. Ford, Jr., ’41, 1300 Norvell St.

Marion, Virginia—George W. Summerson, ’27, Martha Wash-
ington Inn, Abingdon, Virginia

Martinsburg, West Virginia—Clyde E. Smith, Jr.,
“Woodvue,” Rt. 1, Box 70A

Mobile, Alabama—Joe R. Mighell, III, ’40, 251 Indian Creek
Drive

Monroe, Louisiana—Benton M. Wakefield, Jr., °41, The Oui-
chita National Bank

Montgomery, Alabama—John Walter
Bridlewood Drive

Nashville, Tennessee—Robert F. Goodrich, ’25, Box 492

New Orleans, Louisiana—John H. McMillan, ’42, 1333 Web-
ster Street

Newport — Virginia—David Mott Murray, ’52, 1346-22nd

treet

New York City, New York—Irving Buck Bricken, ’33, 400
East 59th Street
Robert H. Ingham, ’55, 317 East 78th Street

Norfolk, Virginia—Thomas W. Joynes, Jr., 52, 7700 North
Shirland Ave.

Orlando, Florida—Warren H. Edwards, ’39, Route No. 5,
Box 702-B

Parkersburg, West Virginia—John S. Bailey, Jr., ’51, P.O.
Box 310

Pensacola, Florida—William J. Noonan, Jr., ’43, 2720 Black-
shear Avenue

Petersburg, Virginia—Richard W. Boisseau, ’40, 1690 Monti-
cello Avenue

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania—James T. Trundle, ’50, 159 East
Valley Brook Road, Haddonfield, New Jersey

peeten Pennsylvania—John E. Perry, ’41, 1330 Terrace

rive

Portsmouth, Virginia—Thomas Deale Blanchard, ’33, 216
Pine Road, Briarwood |

Pulaski, Virginia—Alexander M. Harman, Jr., ’44, Box 878

Roanoke, Virginia—A. L. Holton, Jr., 44, P.O. Box 916

Roswell, New Mexico—George E. Ward, ’59, P.O. Box 29

Salem, Virginia—Derwood H. Rusher, ’51, 5 South College
Avenue

San Antonio, Texas—C. Ganahl Walker, Jr., ’40, P.O. Box 90

South Boston, Virginia—Robert T. Vaughan, 42, Box 585

Spartanburg, South Carolina—Clarence E. Ballenger, 44,
P.O. Box 51

Staunton, Virginia—Randolph T. Shields, Jr., ’32, 36 Ridge-
view Road

St. Louis, Missouri—Landon Y. Jones, ’38, 8 Oakleigh Lane,
Ladue 24, Missouri

St. Petersburg, Florida—John A. Hanley, ’34, 524 Florida
National Bank Building

Tampa, Florida—William E. Tucker, ’48, First National Bank
Building

Tazewell, Virginia—James W. Harman, Jr., 44, P.O. Box 66

Tulsa, Oklahoma—Elridge C. Hubert, ’51, P.O. Box 93

Upper New Jersey (Bergen-Passaic)—Emerson Dickman,
Jr., °37, 454 Jefferson Road, Haworth, New Jersey

Upper New Jersey (Union, Morris, Somerset, Sussex)—Rich-
ard H. Turrell, 49, 26 Hobart Gap Road, Short
Hills, New Jersey

Washington, D. C.—Earl P. Brown, ’44, 1523 L, Street, N. W.

Waynesboro, Virginia—Thomas W. Mehler, ’35, 709 Pine
Avenue

Welch, West Virginia—John Newton Harmon, III, ’40, 245
Virginia Avenue

Wheeling, West Virginia—Samuel Ott Laughlin, Jr., °54
Howard Place

Wilmington, Delaware—E. Rogers Pleasants, 48, 6411 Ken-
nett Pike

Winchester, Virginia—Richard K. Eddy, ’33, Box 523

Wytheville, Virginia—Willis A. Woods, 753, Ninth Street

"42,

Stowers, 742, 3739

3

THE

ASHINGTON
AND Lee

Editor

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

THE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President
BERNARD LEVIN, 1942

Vice-President
RODNEY M. Cook, 1946

Secretary
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

Treasurer
Joun D. BATTLE, JR., M.D., 1934

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Joun D. BATTLE, JR., M.D., 1934
ANDREW H. Baur, JR., 1937

 

March, 1962
Volume XXXVII

Number 1

THE COVER: Formally clad dancers crowd

the floor of Evans Dining Hall at the 1962

Fancy Dress Ball. More than 1,300 persons at-

tended the 53rd renewal of the traditional
event.

 

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

CONTENTS

Rae dicta eae eel The Fanciest Fancy Dress of All 2

RopnEY M. Cook, 1946

Be ee Dr. Atwood Is New Dean of Students 4

James B. MARTIN, 1931

C. Witt Pacy, II, 1950 Dr. Robert’s ODK Address 5

E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938

PAUL M. SHUFORD, 1943 University Joins New Athletic Conference 10

CLARK B. WINTER, 1937

WILLIAM B. WISDOM, 1921 News of the University 12

EDITORIAL BOARD Alumnus Gives Aid ‘To Private Education 17

FRANK J. GILLIAM, 1917

FITZGERALD FLOURNOY, 1921 Participation—K ey Item for the Alumni Fund 18

PAXTON DAVIS

JAMES W. WHITEHEAD University Receives Mattingly Portrait 19

RODNEY M. Cook, 1946

We Mee WASHBURN, 1940 Anniversary Reunions Coming Up 20
Class Notes 21

Published quarterly by Alumni, Incor-
Pemucion Vir ee Chapter News: 9. i ee ee a a BA

Entered as Second Class Matter at the
Post Office at Lexington, Virginia, Sep-
tember 15, 1924. Printed at the Journalism
Laboratory Press of Washington and Lee
University under the supervision of C.
Harold Lauck.

 

WINTER 1962

 
   

The Fanctest Fancy Dress of All

Evans Dining Hall Is New Scene
Of 1962’s Night of ‘High Society’

ANCY DRESS for 1962 wasn’t real-

ly fancy dress at all, yet virtual-
ly everyone who attended the 53rd
annual renewal of this hallowed
Washington and Lee _ tradition
would agree that perhaps it was
the fanciest Fancy Dress of them
all.

There were several breaks with
tradition for this one, and if they
become permanent breaks it will
reflect the general enthusiasm and
interest which the 1962 Fancy Dress
generated among the student body.

This year’s ball was not a cos-
tume ball, at least not in the strict
sense of the term, and that marked
one departure from a practice that
Miss Annie Jo White is said to
have started back in 1907. There
was the usual Fancy Dress theme,
but it wasn’t something lke “An
Odyssey ‘Through Empires,’ or
“Fhe:..Land of Oz,’ or “Mardi
Gras,” or any of the other extrava-
ganzas that alumni associate with
Fancy Dress. Instead, the 1962
theme was “High Society,” and the
costumes involved white tie and
tails for the gentlemen and elegant
formal ballroom gowns for the la-
cies.

If the ball had been held in
Doremus Gymnasium, it might
have been difficult to distinguish
Fancy Dress from any other formal

 

 

President Bit IE and his lady,
Miss SARAH HircH, await start
of the opening figure.

 

 

The Dining Hall balcony provided a magnificent view of the couples below. Looking on, l. to r., Treasurer E. S. MATTINGLY, President

Cote, Mrs. CoLe, VMI Superintendent GrorcGE R. E. SHELL, Mrs. SHELL, and Dr. L. J. DeEsHa.

dance that has taken place there.
But, at the students’ request, it
wasn’t held in Doremus, and it
was this break with tradition that
transformed an essentially formal
dance into the fanciest Fancy Dress
ball ever.

The 1962 setting was Letitia Pate
Evans Dining Hall. The great
hall’s soaring columns, its high,
vaulted ceiling, the magnificent
chandeliers, and smooth marble
underfoot blended with dancers,
orchestra, and music in a way that
made difficult the realization that
such prosaic items as scrambled
eges, mashed potatoes, and con-
gealed salad were normally more
appropriate for the building’s gen-
eral purpose.

Economically, the ball was a
smash success—both for the dollar-
conscious Dance Board and _ for
some equally dollar-conscious stu-
dents. ‘The overall attendance was
between 1,300 and 1,400, and the
student attendance was nearly

double the normal count of some
250 couples for recent Fancy Dress
affairs. Because each date was ex-
pected to possess her own costume
already, students had only to rent
their formal dress from the same
company that usually provides the
jester suits, the pirate get-ups, and
the Confederate uniforms.

There was very little that Fancy
Dress President Bill Ide, a senior
from Statesville, North Carolina,
and his vice-presidents could do to
decorate or improve on the Dining
Hall setting. The fact that none of
them had ever attended Fancy
Dress before didn’t really matter.

While hundreds of guests lined
three sides of the dance floor and
chaperones and official guests
watched from the balcony, twenty-
five couples evolved the opening
figure based on the presentation of
notables at a state ceremonial ball
in the nation’s capital. While Pro-
fessor Ross Borden announced the
ambassadors, cabinet members, and

other notables, figure participants
emerged from the world of stainless
steel pots, pans, and ladles of the
dining hall kitchen into the world
of make believe that has been a
part of every Fancy Dress.

Duke Ellington and his famous
orchestra, playing against the back-
drop of the University coat of
arms, made the music, and the ball-
room and its throng of exuberant
young people made the 1962 Fan-
cy Dress a memorable one.

The University was put to much
trouble arranging for the ball. Ta-
bles and chairs had to be stored at
various points about the campus,
then moved back immediately in
order that interruption of normal
dining hall service would be min-
imized.

Everyone was caught up in the
spirit of doing something new and
different, and everyone was pleased
that it turned out so well. Even
Miss White would have agreed that
this one was the fanciest.

 

The elegance of formal dress was appropriate for the ball room, but amid the tools of the kitchen where the figure formed, it was
amusingly incongruous.

WINTER 1962

 

 

 

Dr. Atwood
New Dean

Of Students

R. EDWARD GC. ATWOOD, JR. be-
D came Washington and Lee
University’s new Dean of Students
on February 1, taking over a job
held by Dean Frank J. Gilliam for
over thirty years.

Dean Gilliam continues as Dean
of Admissions, another job that
he has held for many years and one
that has become so complex today
that he says it requires his full at-
tention. Since 1951 Dean Gilliam
officially has ‘“‘worn two hats” in the
University administration, and his
unofficial association of student and
admissions responsibilities goes
back even further.

A former associate professor of
economics at Washington and Lee,
Dean Atwood returned to the Uni-
versity from New York where he
was a Consultant—Investor Rela-
tions Research for General Electric.

President Fred C. Cole empha-
sized the importance of the admin-
istration realignment when he said:

“Dr. Atwood’s appointment
makes it possible for Dean Gilliam
to concentrate on the increasingly
complex and increasingly import-
ant matter of admissions. He has
felt for some time that his admis-
sions work requires his full atten-
tion. Following a careful study of
the matter, I have concurred in his
recommendation that the functions
of his office be divided and that he
be given opportunity for concentra-
tion on admissions and the prob-
lems of relationship between Wash-
ington and Lee and_ secondary
schools.”

Dean Gilliam has the full-time

 

Deans GILLiAM, left, and ATWooD

assistance of James D. Farrar, who
became Associate Dean of Admis-
sions, while continuing to direct
the University’s student financial
aid and scholarship program.

As Dean of Students, Dr. Atwood
is responsible administratively for
the further development of a
healthy balance among various
facets of student life at Washing-
ton and Lee. His main job is to
see that students study and behave
themselves. He has assistance from
Dr. David W. Sprunt, University
Chaplain and Associate Dean of
Students.

“I am extremely pleased that
Dean Atwood has rejoined the
staff,’ Dean Gilliam said. “We
know from his past work here what
a thoroughly competent person he
is and I am impressed by the excel-
lent start he has made in this new
work. He has had wide experience
in working with Washington and
Lee students in many and varied
activities. I look forward to close
association and close cooperation

with him.”

Dean Atwood, who is 39, is a
native of New York City and a
graduate of Princeton University
where he earned A.B., M.A., and
Ph.D. degrees. He joined the Wash-
ington and Lee faculty in 1952 as
an assistant professor of economics,
and was promoted to associate pro-
fessor 1N 1959.

He left Washington and Lee in
1960 to join the General Electric
Company’s staff of economists in
New York. Since then, he and his
wife and two young sons have made
their home in Wilton, Connecticut.

While at Washington and Lee,
Dean Atwood gained a reputation
among students as one of the Unt-
versity’s most demanding but most
popular professors. He taught
courses in elementary economics,
money and banking, business cy-
cles, and banking problems.

As professor of economics, Dean
Atwood devotes a portion of his
time to teaching in the School of
Commerce and Administration.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A Confluence of Iwo Streams:

The pee ee and the Regional

Dr. Joseph Robert, Former President
Of Hampden-Sydney and Now Pro-
fessor of History at the University of
Richmond, Gave the 1962 ODK Ad-
dress. Like All Good Speeches, It
“Reads” As Well As It “Listens.”

RESIDENT COLE, MR. PAGE, Members of the admin-
P istration, the faculty, and the student body—I
greatly appreciate these warm words of welcome. Hay-
ing suffered in my own experience from a multitude
of assembly speakers, I realize that there is only one
appropriate way to show my gratitude. I shall re-
strict my remarks to 25 minutes, allowing, of course,
the usual 10 per cent declamatory tolerance. Also, ac-
cording to my present plans, I shall recite no more
than twice—two times, mind you—the full names of
that brace of prominent Virginians who in combina-
tion represent the legal title of this instiution. And
for historians speaking in Lexington, I dare say that
this last restraint may be something of a record.

But first of all I would lke to congratulate that
member of your faculty who is among the founders
of the leadership fraternity directing the exercises of
this day, Rupert N. Latture. I shall not embarrass
him by delivering a premature eulogy, but I would
like to remind you that the noblest art is the art of liv-
ing, living generously and graciously, and this is his
biography.

WINTER 1962

 

Dr. RoBerts Accepts Congratu-
lations On His Address.

Omicron Delta Kappa is the lengthened shadow of
good men furthering the grand reconciliation between
the leaders and the led, the teachers and the taught.
Thus Professor Latture is numbered with those few
individuals whose efforts have already been translat-
ed into permanent and wholesome corporate form.

In preamble I should warn you that I am the un-
ashamed advocate of the platitude. Something can be
said for Benjamin Franklin’s maxims, for the morals
in Aesop’s fables and for the didactic flourishes in
McGuttey’s Readers. In that spirit I shall proceed to
elaborate two pedestrian statements: first you are in a
particular kind of university, and, second, you are
in a special part of America.

As members of this academic community, you
share in the grand tradition of schoolmen, ranging
backwards certainly as far as those gowned scholars
who walked the cobblestones of the medieval cities,
dividing their time between battling ignorance by day
and the townsmen by night. To give superficial evi-
dence of your kinship with the medieval scholar, let
us peek over the shoulders of a student who is earn-

5

 

 

 

 

3
E
E
|

estly writing home—this is 500 years ago:—To “his
venerable master’ he sends “‘Greeting.”’ ‘Then accord-
ing to the letter writing guide, as quoted by Haskins,
he scribbles away about as follows:

“This is to inform you that I am studying at
Oxford with the greatest deligence, but the matter of
money stands...in the way of my promotion, as it is
now two months since I spent the last of what you
sent me. The city is expensive’ —remember this is Ox-
ford not Lexington—“and makes many demands; I
have to rent lodging, buy necessities, and provide for
many other things which I cannot now specify. Where-
fore I respectfully beg your paternity that by the
promptings of divine pity you may assist me that I
may be able to complete what I have well begun. For
you must know that without Ceres and Bacchus Apol-
lo grows cold.”

Advice Instead of Cash

Now the medieval fathers, like some parents today,
occasionally did a bit of investigating and decided to
send advice and complaints instead of cash. One re-
proved his son for “preferring license to restraint and
play to work and strumming a guitar while the others
are at their studies.’”’ He was the lead-off man in an

early combo, I judge. But your connections with the

larger story of learning are horizontal as well as ver-
tical, geographical as well as historical.

Several months ago I was fascinated by the cheers
and shouts of students at the University of Athens
in Greece. They were, it developed, merely putting
pressure on the administration to reduce fees, the
crops in Crete having failed. But the sound effects
exactly duplicated those at a freshman rally preced-
ing a big American football game. The lodges of the
various nations at Uppsala in Sweden are similar to
the fraternity houses here at Washington and Lee.
And student caps over Europe, absurd travesties on
formal academic regalia, remind us of our own rat
caps. And most telling of all, professorial problems
and student yawns are worldwide.

However, back of it all is the relentless search for
truth, the restless desire to find patterns in things
and in thought. Thus your experiences here have a
dimension in time and in area which give you much in
common with the young men in other countries and
in other generations. Yours is not an isolated venture,
though I think that in nature and in quality it is
something quite beyond the ordinary.

I shall not attempt to trace by generations your
academic parentage. In spirit the line goes back to
the old College of New Jersey, and then in more
tortuous fashion to the ancient seats of learning in
England, thence to the continent. Nor shall I try to

6

pinpoint your birth date as an institution of higher
learning. Thank goodness here in America we have
that special form of elective system which permits each
institution to select its own date of founding. And
if this pleasant liberty is not discovered in the Pre-
amble of the Declaration of Independence then so
much the worse for Jefferson’s reputation.

But on one point I shall be dogmatic. There is no
argument as to your scholarly integrity, the strictest
form of academic legitimacy. You are in direct line of
the greatest of all institutional patterns; you are the
brilliant example of the independent liberal arts
and sciences, the fertile combination which trains
the tough mind, the tender heart, the sensitive spirit.
You are enjoying the most practical curriculum in the
world, one which best prepares for a future known
only as a season of change. And unless I have been
misinformed, this effervescent, humanistic concept
spills over into the professional schools and depart-
ments to such a degree that all parts of the univer-
sity appreciably share in the emancipating spirit.

Your kind of school and mine represent private,
non-tax-supported enterprise. For the sake of America,
it is essential that this type of university should con-
tinue strong in full partnership with our tax-subsi-
dized corporations. In the Western world many form-
erly independent institutions have gone the easy way.
Oxford and Cambridge today may be described as
wards of the British government. They appear rela-
tively free in their internal operations, this for a
variety of reasons, one of them being the fact that
these particular universities supply the leading ser-
vants of the state and thus in quiet fashion they really
control the Ministry. But I would not relish seeing
Dr. Cole join the presidents of VPI and William and
Mary and the superintendent of VMI in the biennial
and bare-headed treks to the Richmond hotels and to
Capitol Square petitioning the legislators for funds.

The Role Of Incentive

Another feature of the institutions of our type is
the incentive system. Quite in contrast to some ele-
mentary schools in which little Willie is promoted
merely because he has another birthday, you students
are subjected to the relentless ordeal of measured per-
formance and commensurate rewards.

Indulge me for a moment while I append a foot-
note to the incentive theme. One day, in running
through legal records, I stumbled on the following
fact certified in the Statutes at Large and in the Opin-
ions of The Attorney General. When Oliver Hazard
Perry captured the British squadron on Lake Erie,
during the war of 1812, and reported in language im-
mortal, “We have met the enemy and they are ours,”
he was literally correct. They were his. Subsequently

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ODK President ROSEWELL
PAGE Presents New Members
at Assembly

the United States government bought the vessels from
him for $255,000, and this sum was duly divided
among men and officers in those days of prize money.

Now I do not seriously advocate a pay-as-you-go
policy for the Department of Defense. But I do value
all evidences of rewards according to performance. In
the words of a great New England schoolmaster, “You
deserve the fifth freedom, the freedom to be your
best.” But I add that you should have the freedom to
succeed and you should have that wonderful freedom
to fail if you’re not up to the mark. Yes, yours is the
marvelous heritage of the liberal arts and sciences in
an academic environment strong with the force of
centuries back of it.

Now, while on the subject of academic inheritance,
I pause to pay tribute to the honor system on this
campus. I shall not weary you with the depressing re-
cital of details elsewhere. In South Europe one astute
observer of educational institutions reported to me
that the student there feels cheated if he isn’t afford-
ed an opportunity to cheat. Skeptical critics in far
places, hearing about the honor system in this state,
are tempted to call it a surface morality, a code in
which it doesn’t matter what we do just so long as we
keep a coat and tie on while doing it. In other words,
we are accused of a sort of Brooks Brothers morality,
or shall we say a worship of the trinity of Hart,
Schaffner and Marx. This accusation of superficiality
I deny from watching the agonies of self-administered
justice in which through pain and anguish honor is
kept bright.

If here in a variety of collegiate primogeniture you
inherit a double portion of the great liberating legacy
of the western world, you also share bountifully in a
regional pattern, a pattern of significance in any-con-
sideration of leadership. And the point is relevant
whether you were born in Bangor, Maine, or in Shu-
qualak, Mississippi. Now here I call attention to a

WINTER 1962

 

rough-hewn philosopher known as Satchel Paige, the
indestructible Negro baseball pitcher. Unfortunate-
ly, he is not in any of the anthologies available to me,
but as well as I can recall several years ago Satch, and
the name comes from the size of his feet, said this,
“Avoid fatty foods, they angry up the blood. Jangle
gently when you walk, it loosens the juices. Go gently
on the vices. Don’t look back, something may be gain-
ing on you.”

Now gentlemen of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, that something gaining on us may be the past
itself. What is that Southern past? There is some-
times a nostaglia for yesterday that never was. Often
we try to eat our Southern hot biscuits and have
them too. A certain conservative congregation in the
city of Richmond searched for a minister for months.
When I asked why the delay, I was told that the
people had established two requirements: the minister
must be a Confederate veteran, but he must not be
over 30 years of age.

Confluence Of Two Streams

Bold indeed is the visitor who in this gathering
attempts to distill meaning and precept from the
history of the South. He is in the company of authori-
ties certified by the excellence of their publications,
factual and interpretative. But the occasion demands
at least an attempt, because you are at the confluence
of two streams, the academic and the regional. Each
is molding your life.

Any historian by the careful selection of facts may
prove whatever he wants to prove about the South,
old or new. I mean prove to his own satisfaction. I had
a chastening experience in the Italian town of Brin-
disi last spring. The only newspaper headline I could
read was about four inches high beginning ‘“Mont-
gomery, Alabama...” And I knew what was coming
next. In a bookmobile nearby, there was but one

7

 

 

 

 

 

E
E
E
i

 

American volume so far as I could see and this was
Harriet Beecher Stowe’s Uncle Tom’s Cabin. Would
I be too partisan to suggest that perhaps the people
in this little village, which marked the end of the
Appian Way, were receiving something less than a
true picture of the South?

I readily and regretfully grant Southern defic-
iencies past and present. ‘There is indeed a vast calen-
dar of errors to be remedied, sins for which we must
atone. I underscore the fact that we must not censor
our shortcomings. Indeed, there must be a free ex-
change of thoughts and of information, bad as the
information may be. Certainly we cannot add to the
Iron Curtain and to the Bamboo Curtain a curtain of
white columns through which ideas may _ neither
come nor go.

A Planter As A Leader

But if muckraking becomes too much the fashion
we may fail to nurture those elements in the regional
tradition which are inspiring and relevant today,
forces which openly and subtly play on this very in-
stitution. Without at all succumbing to the Cavalier
myth, we may conclude that at its best the planta-
tion system generated a supreme sense of responsi-
ble leadership. In his hospitality, gaming, horse rac-
ing and dancing, the colonial planter appeared to
concentrate on the pleasures of this world. He had in
him enough of the frontiersman to be incurably
optimistic and enough of the English landed gentry to
insist on a high standard of living—a combination, |
might add, which led him into perennial debt.

Yet with all these external evidences of frivolity
and love of pleasure, no quality of the planters was
more marked than the serious acceptance of public
responsibility. They were managing large enterprises,
they must account for the health and labor of many
servants. Looking to Europe for markets and for sup-
plies, they cultivated a breadth of view which over-
came provincialism otherwise inherent in rural life.
Power they had, to be sure, but power controlled by
a stewardship to the conscience of a gentleman, and
a gentleman owed the best of his talents to the state.

A generation trained in the responsible natural
leadership of the plantation area served the nation
with conspicuous success during the Revolutionary
and early national period. In social relations, this
ideal was illustrated in the concept of noblesse oblige
which softened all phases of life.

And now I shall soon exhaust my quota of cita-
tions for the two generals, hitherto nameless, after
whom this university is titled. Both Washington and
Lee applied their talents to plantation management
for extended periods of time. And these experiences
were not without influence on their personalities.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

This area is not only Southern but Virginia, not
only Virginian but it is in a special quarter of Vir-
ginia, a quarter which in the past possessed a mood
and convictions which set it apart from other sections
of the state. Today the deadly same soft drink and
cigarette advertising may create a monotonous uni-
formity over the entire countryside of America, but
it was not always so. Yes, something good, very good,
came from Rockbridge. Let us listen to two men from
this county speaking in the Virginia House of Dele-
gates in 18329. The critical subject under debate was
none other than the institution of slavery. Samuel
McDowell Moore said—and this is no abolitionist—
Samuel McDowell Moore said “Slavery is at best but
an intolerable evil and can never be submitted to
except from stern necessity.... Liberty is too dear
to the heart of man ever to be given up for any earth-
ly consideration.” And then his colleague, James Mc-
Dowell, Jr., in a transcendentalist flourish protested
that despite any treatment accorded the slave—‘‘the
idea that he was born to be free—will survive it all.
It is allied to his hope of immortality—it is the ether-
eal part of his nature which oppression cannot reach;
it is a torch lit up in his soul by the hand of the
Deity and never meant to be extinguished by the hand
of man.” But Virginia temporized and faltered and
turned. No one oan be certain but I venture to suggest
that if Virginia had followed the lead of Rockbridge
County in 1832 there may not have been a Civil War.

Parenthetically, I remind you that a president of
this institution, Dr. Henry Ruffner, 15 years after this
debate, presented before the local Franklin Society
a vigorous anti-slavery address which subsequently
was published.

That Magnificent and Flexible Period

If you will search for it, then, there is here in this
Valley a decision of bold and thoughtful leadership
on which you may well pattern yourselves. Yours is
that magnificent and flexible period in life when all
things are possible. ‘Today one occasionally hears from
way out in right field cries for a man on horseback.
Perhaps the shallow person who by report recently
requested Mr. Kennedy to get off Caroline's tricycle
and mount a horse was merely trying to play with
words. But when somebody talks to me about a man on
horseback the first question I want answered is “What
is the name of the horse?” If it happens to be the name
of a famous animal who occupied a stable a few hun-
dred yards from here, maybe I'll go back for a second
look. Otherwise, frankly I choose Kennedy’s tricycle
over Khrushchev’s troika. Of course, we want no dic-
tator, military or otherwise.

Now the kind of leadership which is our ideal dis-
plays a central, self-denying element. There are other

WINTER 1962

features certainly, such as the difficult talent of suf-
fering fools gladly. But especially we need the art of
noble accommodation, the gift for reconciling the ex-
tremes. Believe me, one does not automatically acquire
Lee’s stature merely by taking a second journey to
Appomatox. I suggest that the hard, practical spirit
of accommodation such as was displayed in the Consti-
tutional Convention and in the first half of the 19th
century shows that the techniques of compromise in
matters of procedure is neither immoral nor un-
patriotic. Let this spirit of patience and tolerance
invite ideas old and new. It is sad to see a man without
ideas. It is catastrophic to see ideas without men, ideas
hovering, seeking incarnation. In God’s economy men
may be replaceable but there are some ideas which are
irreplaceable. And one of these is found in Holy Writ
where it says that “If any man desire to be first, the
same shall be last of all and servant of all.” This is
leadership.

On June 10 of this year Dr. Charles Malik, former
president of the General Assembly of the United
States, brilliantly reviewed the matters of hope and
promise before the world. And reciting the freedom
of men and the freedom of God took exception to
those well-meaning gentlemen who believe that they
have discovered the laws of society in the rhythm of
growth and decay. This is in fact a season of hope.
People are expectant, they cry for leadership. I quote
Dr. Malik: “If Western civilization goes down, it will
be only because its leadership has failed to show it
the way. There is no impersonal law of growth and
decay here at work whatsoever. There is the very per-
sonal moral failure of the leaders to show the way.
And a real way out most certainly there is. The actual
ready potentialities of this civilization in every sphere
are so tremendous, so overpowering, that with the
proper coordination and the right voice of leadership
it can rise to any challenge. The greatest danger today
is that either this leadership is not forthcoming or
that its voice will come too late.” (End of that signi-
ficant quotation).

Leadership Is Forthcoming

But gentlemen, as I look about me today I am con-
vinced that leadership is forthcoming. We do have
hope. Hope is just as certain as are the excellencies at
this university where the best of the old and the best
of the new are in powerful combination, where the
glories of the great academic traditions and the great
regional traditions encourage leadership, leadership
resilient in technique, noble in purpose, self-denying
in spirit. It is the special virtue of this fraternity
which we celebrate today, a fraternity founded on
these very acres, that it urges the sort of leadership
without which we cannot long endure.

 

 

At left, Southwestern students before Palmer Hall; at right, Sewanee’s towers thrust up through wooded acres.

Centre, Sewanee, and Southwestern

University Joins Three Other Colleges
To Form College Athletic Conference

At left, Centre students leaving “Olde Centre’; at right, Washington and Lee’s Colonnade in a morning sun.

 

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

HE FORMATION of a new athlet-
te conference among Centre
College of Kentucky, Southwestern
at Memphis, the University of the
South, and Washington and Lee
University was announced in Jan-
uary by President Fred C. Cole.
Simultaneous announcements were
made on other member schools’
campuses in Danville, Kentucky,
Memphis, Tennessee, and Sewanee,
‘Tennessee.

President Cole said the new or-
ganization will be known as the
College Athletic Conference and
will become operational in 1962-63.
The conference will sponsor in-
tercollegiate competition in foot-
ball, basketball, golf, tennis, track
and field, and_ baseball. Other
sports may be added later, Presi-
dent Cole said.

Under the conference’s Articles
of Organization, a “cardinal prin-
ciple” of the league is “that all
participation in sports by members
of its teams shall be solely because
of interest in and the enjoyment of
the game.

“No financial aid shall be given
to any student which is conditioned
upon, or for the purpose of en-
couraging, his participation in in-
tercollegiate sports,” the articles
state. “All financial aids of the
member institutions shall be ad-
ministered by a single agency of
the faculty. No aid funds shall be
specifically reserved for athletes,
and the directors of athletics and
coaches shall have no voice or par-
ticipation in the determination of
recipients or amounts of financial
aid to any student. Criteria for ad-
mission to the individual member
institutions shall be the same for
all students.”’

‘The conference will be governed
by a Board of Directors composed
of the presidents of the member
institutions. ‘The chairmanship will
be rotated among the directors at
their discretion. Vice Chancellor
and President Edward McCrady of
the University of the South will be

WINTER 1962

the Board’s first chairman. Other
members are President Thomas A.
Spragens of Centre, President Pey-
ton N. Rhodes of Southwestern,
and President Cole.

Additional members may be ad-
mitted to the conference upon
unanimous approval of the Board
of Directors.

While the four founding mem-
bers are all Southern institutions,
President Cole said it was not the
intention of the Board to limit the
conference geographically. He said
other colleges and universities in
the East and Midwest could be-
come members.

An administrative council com-
posed of representatives of each
school will handle scheduling and
other routine annual business. The
council is authorized to conduct
an annual basketball tournament
and annual meets in the spring
sports. Other sports can be added
to the conference program at the
council’s discretion, and the coun-
cil will decide how champions in
each sport will be determined.

The Articles of Organization
state:

“It shall be the general purpose
of the Conference to foster com-
petition in as many sports as may
be successfully provided by the
members within the limits of budg-
et capabilities. A major objective
shall be the encouragement of
widespread participation in health-
ful sports by members of their vari-
ous student bodies.”

The articles provide no confer-
ence rules on eligibility as such.
They state, “It is assumed that all
member institutions will permit
participation on their athletic
teams only to regular, full-time
students in good standing as de-
fined by the regulations of their
respective faculties.”

“Each member institution has
full respect for the integrity of the
other members, for the selective na-
ture of their admission standards,
and for their existing standards of

academic qualification,” the arti-
cles declare.

All members of the new confer-
ence have had previous conference
afhliations. Centre was a member
of the Southern Intercollegiate
Athletic Conference until 1945,
and from 1946 to 1959, the college
participated in the Kentucky In-
tercollegiate Athletic Conference
in basketball only. Southwestern al-
so once belonged to the Southern
Intercollegiate Athletic Confer-
ence, and for five years was a mem-
ber of the Dixie Conference, with-
drawing in 1940.

The University of the South,
known better in athletic circles as
Sewanee, was a charter member of
the Southeastern Conference until
1939. Washington and Lee was a
charter member of the Southern
Conference and ended its afhliation
with that group in 1958.

Other winter sports news:

Coach Lee McLaughlin accepted
the Washington ‘Touchdown Club’s
trophy for the Generals who were
voted the nation’s Outstanding
Small College Football ‘Team for
1961.

Senior Linebacker Terry Fohs,
all 145 pounds of him, was named
to the Associated Press Second
Team Little All-America, a step
up from the Third Team honors
he won as a junior.

‘Tackle Bob Payne of Louisville,
full-back Tommy Keesee of Mem-
phis, and half-back Charlie Gum-
mey of Wilmington, Delaware, are
football tri-captains for 1962.

The basketball team got good
efforts from junior Rodger Fauber,
sophomore Tom Supak, and fresh-
man Louie Paterno, but managed
to win only six of seventeen games.

‘The wrestlers enjoyed another
good season, winning seven, losing
three, and boasting a win over Vir-
ginia.

The swimming team, engaged in
one of its toughest schedules on rec-
ord, still came through with a
highly creditable 8-2-1 record.

11

 

News of the University

Senator Gore Speaks
On United Nations

@ SENATOR ALBERT GORE, D-JIenn.,
headed up the program for Wash-
ington and Lee’s eighth annual In-
ternational Relations Week in
early February.

Theme of the “Week” was the
United Nations and its role in
World Peace. The annual event is
an effort on the part of the univer-
sity to draw student attention to
problems in international affairs.
It is under the sponsorship of the
School of Commerce and Admin-
istration and the student Interna-
tional Relations Club. Activities
were directed by John M. Gunn,
assistant professor of economics
and political science.

In addition to Senator Gore, stu-
dents heard Mahomed Khader Na-
waz, a professor from India cur-
rently serving on the faculty of the
School of Foreign Affairs at the
University of Virginia.

Speaking in Lee Chapel, Senator
Gore said that ““The UN and the
United States standing together
can bring effective self-government
to the Congo, as well as hold off
any foreign threat.”

Gore called the Congo “the only
major diplomatic victory we've
won in ten years.” The senator
said that Communist leadership in
the Congo is exaggerated. Afri-
cans as a rule, he said, do not have
sufhcient sophistication for ideo-
logical devotion to Communism.

Speaking on “The United Na-
tions at Crossroads,’ Professor Na-
waz said that the United States has
the “major responsibility for shar-
ing the fate” of the UN. The sac-

12

rifices which must be made “‘for the
cause of the UN” are not big in
terms of money, he said. Americans
must not feel that they are paying
too much, he added. He called the
UN bond issue “a compliment to
your charitable dispositions.”

w AN ENGLISH CRITIC of American
literature and a professor from the
Protestant Episcopal ‘Theological
Seminary in Alexandria were pre-
sented in the goth and 41st Semin-
ars in Literature.

Montgomery Belgion, secretary
of the Westwood House School
‘Trust since 1950, a former journal-
ist, and author of 11 books, spoke
on “The Aesthetic Delusion.”

Dr. Albert T. Mollegen, who
teaches New ‘Testament language
and literature at the seminary in
Alexandria, spoke on “Albert Cam-
us: Facing Death and The Ab-
surd.”

Two strands, said Dr. Molle-
gen, both containing the problems
of the 1gth Century, have resulted
in existentialism and Communism.

 

Dr. FITZGERALD FLOURNOY
with Dr. Loutis WRIGHT

 

SENATOR GORE

He said existentialism is the hero-
ic evidence of the sickness of west-
ern civilization, as is shown by the
beatniks and angry young men. He
continued that communism too, it
appears, will have to go through
the sickness since it contains, as
does existentialism, all problems ar-
ticulated in the arts, literature, and
behavior of men. He pointed out
that beatniks are evident today in
Moscow.

m DR. LOUIS B. WRIGHT, director of
Folger Shakespeare Library in
Washington, D.C., was a guest
speaker in December, under spon-
sorship of the English Department,
and is scheduled for another lec-
ture at the University in May.

Dr. Wright spoke on “Shakes-
peare for the Layman.”

g@ JOHN E. MCDONALD, the State De-
partment’s Chief of research for
Southeast Asia, spoke to students
in February concerning recent de-
velopments in Viet Nam and other
Southeast Asian countries.

= ALSO HEARD in February was Dr.
Creighton Buck, chairman of the
committee on undegraduate mathe-
matics programs of the Mathemati-
cal Association of America. Speak-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ing to advanced mathematics
classes here, Dr. Buck discussed
“Research in Mathematics.”

m THE SERMON for the annual
Christmas candlelight service was
delivered by Dr. John Newton
Thomas, ’24, professor of systemat-
ic theology at Union Theological
Seminary in Richmond and a ‘Trus-
tee of the University.

Dr. David Sprunt, University
chaplain, was presiding minister
for the service which was held un-
der the auspices of the University
Christian Association. Student
readers included Ashley Wiltshire
of Richmond, Virginia; Roger
Paine of Arlington, Virginia; John
Dunnell of Brooklyn, New York;

and Mervyn Clay of Bristol, Rhode
Island.

a “I DON’T WANT WAR,” a former

prime minister of Hungary said
when he addressed a Washington
and Lee audience in January under
sponsorship of the Department of
Journalism and Communications.

Ferenc Nagy, current chairman-
president of the Assembly of Cap-
tive European Nations, continued:
“I just want to advise Western gov-
ernments to exercise a strong pol-
icy. The question is whether people
will live under Communism in the
future or under democracy. Noth-
ing more would be necessary than
for the West to stick to a resolu-
tion saying it will negotiate noth-

 

Valuable Lee Letters Acquired

= TWO OF GENERAL Robert E. Lee’s
letters to President Jefferson Davis,
valued at $4,500, have been added
to Washington and Lee Univer-
sity’s collection of more than 5,000
Lee letters.

The letters, bound in a red
morocco leather case, are dated
August 22, 1863, and February 9,
1865, and were willed to the uni-
versity by the late Alfred W. Stern,
a Chicago clothing executive.

The correspondence presents an
interesting contrast in the career
of the famous Confederate general
who later became president of
Washington College. The August
letter—written at Lee’s headquar-
ters at Orange County Court-
house—indicates that General Lee
regrets that President Davis will
not consider Lee’s request to be re-
lieved of his post and permit him
to serve “In any capacity at any
post where I can do good.”

General Lee, discouraged after
Gettysburg, thought that “the low-
er the position, the more suitable”
to his ability and the more “‘agree-
able’ to his feelings.

WINTER 1962

The 1865 letter, composed at
Lee’s Petersburg headquarters, 1s
General Lee’s acceptance of the
post of General-in-Chief (com-
manding general) for the Confed-
erate Army. He had been com-
mander of the Army of Northern
Virginia until this appointment in
the last two months of the war.

 

Dr. ALLEN MOGER and Librarian
HENRY COLEMAN, examine Lee letters.

ing until the Eastern European
problem has been solved.”

Nagy posed the question:
“Would Sukarno be brave enough
to threaten New Guinea, or Kassem
threaten Kuwait if the United
States had fought for Eastern Eur-
ope?”

 

A SYMPOSIUM on English poet
Robert Graves, including essays by
W. H. Auden, Colin Wilson, ‘Thom
Gunn and other literary figures, is
featured in the Winter issue of
Shenandoah, the University’s lit-
erary magazine.

Edited by Douglas ‘T. Day, Eng-
lish instructor, the volume also in-
cludes book reviews by James Boat-
wright, instructor in English, on
Malcolm Lowry’s Hear Us O Lord
from Heaven Thy Dwelling Place
and Dr. Fitzgerald Flournoy, pro-
fessor of English, on George Stein-
er’s The Death of Tragedy.

= TWO NEW MAjors will be open
to Washington and Lee students
next year.

Plans for a new Sociology and
Anthropology major were drawn
up by Dr. James G. Leyburn, pro-
fessor of sociology.

Contemporary Civilization will
mark the third alternative avail-
able to history majors, in addition
to the two now offered in Amerti-
can and European History.

m FOUR YEAR-END, aid-to-education
gifts were received by the Univer-
sity.

They included $4,000 from E. I.
duPont de Nemours and Company
for the study of science and en-
gineering. The grant was awarded,
as in past years, on the strength of
the University’s chemistry depart-
ment.

Gifts of $1,500 each were received
from ‘Texaco, Inc. and from the
Shell Oil Company. The Texaco
gift was unrestricted. The Shell
gift included $500 of unrestricted

13

 

 

Dr. BEAN, left, and Dr. CRENSHAW

funds, $500 for general faculty de-
velopment, and $500 for profession-
al development of individual fac-
ulty members in engineering,
mathematics and the physical sci-
ences.

An unrestricted grant of $452
was received from The Gulf Oil
Corporation.

 

m DR. OLLINGER CRENSHAW, 725, will
succeed Dr. William G. Bean as
head of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity’s history department when
Dr. Bean retires from that position
in June, Dean of the College Wil-
liam W. Pusey III announced to
the faculty in February.

Dr. Bean, 70, has served as head
of the department since 1930.

A member of the history depart-
ment faculty since 1926, Dr. Cren-
shaw became a full professor in
1947. He has taught at summer
sessions at the College of William
and Mary, the University of Wis-
consin, Johns Hopkins University
and West Virginia University. Dr.
Crenshaw, who is 57, received his
bachelor and master of arts degrees
from Washington and Lee in 1925
and 1926, respectively. He was
awarded his Ph.D. degree from

14

Johns Hopkins University in 1945.

Dr. Bean first came to Washing-
ton and Lee in 1922 as an assistant
professor. He was made a full pro-
fessor and head of the department
in 1930. He received his bachelor
of arts degree from the University
of Alabama in 1913, his M.A. from
Harvard University in 1916 and his
Ph.D. there in 1922.

UNIVERSITY FUNDS totaling $5,205
have been granted to 14 Washing-
ton and Lee University professors
for support of research and study
projects during 1962.

‘The awards are supported by the
John M. Glenn Fund and are part
of a Washington and Lee program
designed to promote continuing
scholarship among faculty members
and increasing teaching effective-
ness in classrooms and laboratories.

Most faculty recipients will con-
duct their research during this sum-
mer’s vacation, but they have until
December 1 to complete their pro-
jects. Stipends range from $46 to
$goo.

These professors received grants:

Dr. C. Westbrook Barritt, Span-
ish, for study in Santander, Spain,
to improve his competence in Span-
ish and Basque.

Dr. A. Ross Borden, Jr., English,

for the study of Shakespeare and
Elizabethan drama at Stratford-on-
Avon and the University of Birm-
ingham summer session.

William W. Chaffin, English, for
research in the Alderman Library
at the University of Virginia on
the life of Henry A. Wise.

Dr. Milton Colvin, political sci-
ence, for a study of the importance
of foreign policy issues in the June
Congressional primary elections in
Montana.

Dr. Jay D. Cook, Jr., accounting,
for a research program on net in-
come, taxable income and _ defer-
ring of income taxes by corpora-
tions.

Dr. Cecil D. Eby, Jr., English,
for research on George S. Wasson,
Henry Adams and Hunter’s Raid.

Lyman R. Emmons, biology, for
a study of human and amphibian
cytogenetics.

Dr. Marshall W. _ Fishwick,
American studies, for the prepara-
tion of color slides for the depart-
ment of fine arts during a forth-
coming six-month stay in Europe.

Dr. Louis W. Hodges, religion,
for the investigation of traditional
and contemporary theories on how
Christian ethical norms may be
translated into social action.

Dr. Lewis K. Johnson, commerce,
for the preparation of a manuscript
entitled ‘Personnel Administra-
tion.”

Dr. Charles V. Laughlin, law,
for the preparation of a manuscript
on “The Development of a Natural
Basis for a Two-Party System in
Politics and the Application of
the Principles of Judicial Proof to
Political Decisions.”

Dr. Allen W. Moger, history, for
the continuation of a study of Vir-
ginia history after 1880.

Dr. Charles F. Phillips, Jr., eco-
nomics, for a program of research
and writing in the practice of gov-
ernment regulation of business in
the United States.

Robert Stewart, music, for the
study of contemporary trends in

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

musical composition at the Ben-
nington Composers Conference,
Bennington, Vermont.

™ TWO ARTICLES by an English in-
structor, Jack B. Moore, have been
published by two different jour-
nals. A fictitious story entitled “I
Wonder As I Wander” appears in
the current issue of the New Mexi-
co Quarterly. His second article,
“David Morgan and the Indians,”
was in the January issue of the
West Virginia History Magazine.

PRESIDENT FRED C. COLE was one
of five panelists at the 17th Nation-
al Conference on Higher Educa-
tion in Chicago in March who dis-

professor of romance languages,
participated in a panel discussion
of “Modern Foreign Languages
and ‘Their Teaching” at a Decem-
ber meeting of the National Fed-
eration of Modern Language
Teachers Association in Chicago.

# A 400-PAGE BOOK by Dr. James
G. Leyburn, professor of sociology,
is scheduled to be published by the
University of North Carolina Press
this spring.

The Scotch-Irish: A Social His-
tory culminates five years of work
by Dr. Leyburn in Scotland, Ire-
land, and the United States. The
evolution of the Scotch-Irish as
they moved from Ireland to Amer-

 

“Help Week” meant assistance for Librarian HENRY COLEMAN

cussed “Reassessment of Overseas
Student Exchange Programs:
Guidelines for the Further Devel-
opment of Policies and Programs.”
The three-day conference is spon-
sored by the Association for Higher
Education. Approximately 1,500
college professors, deans, presidents
and other administrators from pub-
lic and private institutions register-
ed for the sessions. Dean of the
College William W. Pusey III rep-
resented Washington and Lee.

m= DR. WESTBROOK BARRITT, associate

WINTER 1962

ica is the main concern of the book,
but it also deals with American
politics, economics, and_ religion
in relation to its subject.

mw THE NATIONAL SYMPHONY Orches-
tra, in a February students’ concert
presented in Lexington by the
Rockbridge Concert-Theatre Ser-
les, was joined in a performance of
Prokofiev’s “Peter and The Wolf”
by Dr. G. Francis Drake, professor
of French, who read the text of the
composition with the symphony.
It was the second year that Dr.

Drake performed with the group
on its annual visit to Lexington.

# A WOODWIND COMPOSITION — by
Robert Stewart, associate professor
of Fine Arts, was performed in Feb-
ruary in New York City for the
Music in Our Times series. The
Dorian Woodwind Quintet played
Stewart's ““Three Pieces for Wood-
wind Quintet” before a public au-
dience, including critics, in Kauf-
mann Concert Hall.

A second composition by Stew-
art, ‘“Prelude for Strings,’’ was per-
formed in Roanoke by the Roa-
noke Symphony Orchestra in Feb-
ruary. In May, Stewart's “Canzona
and Ricercar for Brass Sextet’? and
“Trio No. Two for Violin, ’cello
and Piano” will be heard at the
Roanoke Fine Arts Center.

w AN ARTICLE on novelist William
Faulkner by Douglas T. Day III,
instructor in English, was publish-
ed in the Winter issue of the
Georgia Review. Entitled “The
War Stories of William Faulkner,”
Day’s article is a commentary on
a phase of the author’s literary
career seldom touched by critics.

 

= THE ELIMINATION Of “Hell Week’”’
by three fraternities and the suc-
cess of a new emphasis on commun-
ity service marked the “Help
Week” which began the second se-
mester. Fraternities which gave up
hazing pnactices were Sigma Chi,
Pi Kappa Alpha and Phi Gamma
Delta.

IFC President Robert Shannon
Doenges commented: “Fraternities
placed more emphasis than ever be-
fore on community service, as op-
posed to hazing.”

m ZETA BETA TAU topped fraterni-
ty scholastic averages in the first
semester, followed by Phi Epsilon
Pi and Lambda Chi Alpha.

The winning fraternity averaged
1.753. Non fraternity average was

15

 

1.465 and all men’s average was

1.392.

g@ GLEE CLUB activities included par-
ticipation in the annual Roanoke
Symphony’s performance of por-
tions of Handel’s ““Messiah” in De-
cember and exchange programs
with the Sullins College Choir in
Bristol.

The John A. Graham _ Brass
Choir was featured on a Roanoke
television program in February.

A FIVE-MAN Student Control Com-
mittee has been selected by Wash-
ington and Lee University’s stu-
dent government executive com-
mittee to assist administration of-
ficers in cases of student miscon-
duct. The new group will work in
conjunction with Dean of Students
Edward C. Atwood and Washing-
ton and Lee’s faculty administra-
tive committee. The Student Con-
trol Committee will deal in two
general areas — inter-institutional
relations and campus conduct. All
activity of the committee is subject
to review by Dean Atwood and the
administrative committee.

Senior committee members are
William Outman, Washington, D.
C.; and George Honts, Eagle Rock,
Virginia. Other members include
Thomas Rains, Atlanta, Georgia,
junior; Jimmy Sylvester, Las Vegas,
Nevada, sophomore; and Philip
Sharp, Richmond, freshman law
student.

# THE DECEMBER production of
Shaw’s “Don Juan in Hell” at the
Troubadour Theatre was followed
in mid-March by a five-night run
of Shakespeare’s “Othello.”

Dr. Cecil Jones, director of the
Troubadours, took the title role
in Don Juan. Other acters were Dr.
Keith Shillington, of the Chemis-
try department, John Jennings, of
the Journalism department, and
Mrs. Ruth Browne, Pi Kappa AIl-
pha housemother.

A special stage setting was creat-
ed for “Othello.” The forestage,
built out from the main stage, pro-

16

jected six feet into the audience
area and was used for soliloquies,
two-character scenes, and as an ex-
tension of the mainstage. Music by
Robert Stewart was recorded by
students and played during the per-
formance. Robert L. Allen of Park
Hills, Kentucky, played Othello in
the production.

= SOPHOMORE Jere D. Cravens of
Bartlesville, Oklahoma, was award-
ed a copy of the Handbook of
Chemistry and Physics for the high-
est average in his first semester of
college physics. Purpose of the an-
nual award is to stimulate interest
in the sciences through student
competition. The prize is given by
the Chemical Rubber Company.

gz A NEW 60-SEAT upperclass read-
ing room was opened in McCor-
mick Library in January, increas-
ing the library seating space by
one-fourth its present capacity.
Total library seating capacity

has been brought to 300, according
to Librarian Henry E. Coleman,
Jr. The new room is located at the
front of the library, directly over
the main lobby and desk.

The room is furnished with cus-
tom-built furniture designed by
alumnus Donald R. Steenburgh,
’51, of Richmond. Rare books and
papers from the university's ar-
chives are housed there. Locked
cages have been installed for this
material.

The room was added to the li-
brary building in 1941, and has
served a multitude of purposes
since that date. The Bicentennial
Committee used it as offices in 1949
and special lecturers have appeared
there. The room was once rigged
for closed-circuit television for the
overflow crowds during the 1958
spring lectures of Dr. Arnold ‘Toyn-
bee. From 1951 to 1955 a loan ex-
hibition from the Metropolitan
Museum of Art was displayed in
the room.

 

Students put Library’s new room to good use.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Trust Will Aid Colleges

N UNUSUAL demonstration of
A interest by a Richmond busi-
nessman-physician and a Washing-
ton and Lee alumnus in advancing
the quality of Virginia’s indepen-
dent colleges will benefit his Alma
Mater on a continuing annual ba-
SiS.

Under the terms of a trust agree-
ment devised in 1959, Washington
and Lee University is one of a doz-
en beneficiaries of the A. A. Houser
Trust, established by Dr. Aubrey
A. Houser, ‘og, president of Wm.
P. Poythress & Company, Inc.,
Richmond pharmaceutical manu-
facturers.

From time to time Dr. Houser
will convey to the Trust capital
stock of the Poythress company, of
which he is majority stockholder.
Income in the form of dividends on
shares held by the Trust will be
paid to the Virginia Foundation
for Independent Colleges and di-
vided among 12 benefiting colleges
annually on the basis of a distrib-
ution formula agreed upon by the
participating institutions, includ-
ing Washington and Lee.

The Trust is established in per-
petuity. According to the trust
agreement, upon Dr. Houser’s de-
mise all of his remaining holdings
in the Poythress company will be

WINTER 1962

Alumnus Aubrey A. Houser, ’09,
Establishes Fund ‘To Boost Quality
Of State Independent Colleges

transferred to the Trust. Mean-
while, with each conveyance of his
company’s stock to the principal
of the Trust, Washington and Lee’s
share will increase. Dr. Houser has
expressed his intention of enlarg-
ing the principal holdings of the
Trust by the addition of securities
each year.

Income from the Houser ‘Trust,
like other contributions to the Vir-
ginia Foundation, are used by the
colleges for current instructional
programs rather than for capital
purposes. Most Virginia Founda-
tion funds are applied to faculty
salary improvements.

Dr. Houser, who practiced medi-
cine in Richmond for many years
and once taught at the Medical
College of Virginia, is an alumnus
of two of the benefiting institu-
tions, Bridgewater College and
Washington and Lee University.

In addition to income to the Vir-
ginia Foundation from the Houser
Trust, the Poythress firm is a gen-
erous annual supporter to the joint
college fund.

President George M. Modlin of
the University of Richmond, a
trustee of the Houser Trust, has
described it as “‘a very generous and
unusual action on the part of this

education - minded ~— gentleman
whose keen understanding of the
value of independent colleges is
clearly manifest in the establish-
ment of this “Trust.”

The trust agreement provides
that in the event the Virginia
Foundation is ever dissolved or de-
viates from its purpose as defined
in its charter, the income, and
eventually the assets, will go to
Washington and Lee.

Dr. Houser, a native of Natural
Bridge Station, Virginia, was born —
in 1881. He attended Washington
and Lee from 1905 to 1907 and
went on to receive his M.D. degree
from the Medical College of Vir-
ginia in 1916.

After thirty years in the medical
profession, he retired in 1946 but
continued as president of the Poy-
thress Company and as president
and manager of Alpine Farms at
Natural Bridge Station.

He has been a regular and gen-
erous giver to the Alumni Fund
and the Development Fund _ at
Washington and Lee.

Dr. Aubrey A. Houser, Jr., is a
1941 graduate of Washington and
Lee and followed in his father’s
footsteps in graduating from the
Medical College of Virginia in
1951.

17

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Fund

Participation

T THIS MOMENT less than 10
Ave: cent of Washington and
Lee alumni have responded to the
Alumni Fund. The — scoreboard
shows 1,021 contributors out of
10,383 solicited who have given a
total of $44,288.00.

As chairman of the Alumni Fund
Council, please permit me some
liberty to speak quite frankly and
openly with you for a few minutes
about the annual giving fund. Be-
cause it reaches into your pocket,
and into mine, it is a rather per-
sonal matter and it certainly is a
matter of grave importance to us
all. I feel certain that, when you
know these facts, you will join in a
concerted action today.

A lot of “beating the drums”
has been done by colleges about
this problem of percentage of par-
ticipation in alumni — support.
Whether we like this constant
harping on a single subject or not,
the point is that participation is
the basic fact! It is the fundamental
key to the whole program. We can-
not simply close our eyes and ears
to increasing insistence from the
large philanthropic foundations
that their assistance will be direct-
ly proportional to the amount of
self-support a college displays.
Some won’t even consider a col-
lege with less than 50 per cent
alumni support in annual giving.
Moreover, it is contrary to our
“sporting blood” or sense of fair
play to sit back and see so few
shoulder the whole responsibility
for all of us.

Let’s examine the record to de-
termine just where we do stand.

18

By MATT PAXTON, JR.
Chairman, Alumni Fund Council

How good or bad are we? Some
will argue that those schools with
high percentage, somehow manipu-
late their overall numbers or their
definition of an alumnus so as to
make themselves look good. I dis-
count this theory sharply. Accord-
ing to the best available informa-
tion, most colleges use the same
method of identifying an alumnus
and most colleges solicit their full
numbers—non-graduates as well as
graduates.

Now look at Table I. Here we see

—Key Item for Alumni Fund

the record of our participation in
the five year period prior to the
University Development Program.
In the last year, 1957-58, it reached
35.3 per cent with 3,378 alumni
responding that year. Table II in-
dicates where this places us in re-
spect to other institutions of our
class.

Washington and Lee has never
been content to operate at just the
average level. If we are to justify
our existence as a small private
university, we must produce somc-

TABLE I

S YEAR PARTICIPATION

PERCENT 60

 

 

SO

 

 

40

 

 

30

 

 

 

 

 

 

20

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NUMBER

SOLICITED 10509

10619

1953-54

 

1954-55

 

 

10909

9076 9578

1955-56 1956-57 1957-58

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

See

 

TABLE II
* All figures for year 1959-60 year—except W&L which is 1957-58

 

Effectiveness Average Gift

 

 

 

No. Alumni of to
Institution Solicited Solicition Fund
Princeton 28,099 71.9% $ 63.12
Dartmouth 26,580 64.9 71.34
Amherst 10,190 62.5 44.86
Williams 9,821 57.0 44.48
Yale 70,795 46.1 69.15
Duke 28,703 39.6 23.57
*Washington and Lee 9,578 35.3 33.65
Vanderbilt 21,500 34.4 28.50
‘Tulane 30,599 31.5 33-97
Davidson 7,023 31.3 41.977

 

 

 

thing better than the average, and
this means better than average al-
umni interest and support, as well
as graduates whose educations are
better than average. Why do you
suppose some alumni (about 65 per
cent, in fact) fail to respond to
their class agent or regional agent?
All of us have more appeals from
worthy causes than we care to

count; but we all know the bene-
fits of having attended Washington
and Lee. Given an important rea-
son, all of us can juggle our in-
come to make a little go here and
a little go there. Really, all of us
are in the same boat—yet some do
support the Fund and others don't.

Are you a “doer’’?

Perhaps some feel ashamed to

respond in a small way—yet this 1s
just the point. Washington and Lee
needs you to help support her in
proportion to your ability, but, be-
yond this, she needs you first of all
to stand up and be counted! This
in itself is of significant importance
and help.

A case in point is our annual
fund this very year.

Just look back now at our pres-
ent situation. Only 1,021 contribu-
tors have responded, and we've
reached about 40 per cent of our
former dollar record. Imagine what
could be accomplished if everyone
would participate! The fund year
will terminate May 31st although
pledges may be paid through the
calendar year. That gives us three
big months to go.

Let me urge each of us to exam-
ine our participation in the light
of what it means to us individual-
ly and to Washington and Lee to
have all of us share in this respon-
sibility. Taking some liberties with
a familiar slogan, I might add, “If
you care enough to send the best—
send money!”

And send it now. Don’t be late—
participate.

 

Anonymous Donor
Presents Portrait

= THE PORTRAIT of University
Treasurer Earl S. Mattingly, shown
at right, was presented to Wash-
ington and Lee by an anonymous
alumnus.

Professor Rupert N. Latture, act-
ing for the donor, presented the oil
painting to President Fred C. Cole
in a small ceremony held in the
President’s Office and attended by
Mr. Mattingly and members of the
Washington Hall staff.

The artist, Mrs. H. Donahoe of
St. Petersburg, Florida, painted the
portrait from photographs of Mr.
Mattingly, who first came to the
University as a student in 1916.

WINTER 1962

 

19

 

To:

From: Your Alumni Association

Classes of IQOI2, IQ22, IQ37, IQ52

Subject: Anniversary Reunions

OU OF THE ABOVE anniversary
+. will be vitally interest-
ed in the plans which are being
developed for your reunion on
May 4-6.

A preliminary outline has just
been mailed to you. Please com-
plete the return card stating wheth-
er you plan to attend. As soon as
these cards are returned a list will
be prepared and a copy sent to each
member. Thus you can, by corres-
ponding with one another, get to-
gether with a special group of your
friends to make the trek to Lex-
ington. Therefore, please return
that “statement of intent’ card
right away.

Keep in mind that local hotels
and motels have been block re-
served. Reservations must be made
through the Alumni Office. Re-
quest for reservation cards will be
mailed out about April 7 and the
deadline on reservations is April
25th. There will be no guarantee
after this date. As in the past, the
various Classes will be lodged, as
classes, in different hotels. You will
want to be with your classmates.
Unless you make some special re-
quest you will automatically be

20

May 4-6

lodged with your class. The head-
quarters for the classes are as fol-
lows:

The 50th anniversary class 1912—
Mayflower Inn.

‘The 4oth anniversary class 1922—
Mayflower Inn.

The 25th anniversary class 1937—
R. E. Lee Hotel.

The 10th anniversary class 1952—
Lexington Motel.

The accommodations in these
three places are excellent. The R.
FE. Lee Hotel has just undergone
some major remodeling and is un-
der new management. The May-
flower offers the facilities of a hotel
with the convenience of a motel;
the Lexington Motel, though far-
thest from the University, is new
and modern.

The program will be complete
but not so full as to prohibit your
visiting local points, looking in on
the fraternity, and just plain wand-
ering. We want you to enjoy your-
self and not be bound to a “stop
watch” program. Upon getting into
Lexington, check in first at your
hotel. Here you will pick up a com-
plete program and _ instructions.
Then come to the Student Union
Building (that’s the one across the

street from the Episcopal Church)
where you will be registered. You
will want to arrive in plenty of
time on Friday, May 4, to attend
the reception at 4:30 p.m. at the
home of President and Mrs. Cole.
You are on your own for supper
that night. We hope you'll get with
all your classmates and come to
hear the first of the John Randolph
Tucker Lectures later at 8 o’clock.
This is the first time the Anniver-
sary Reunions have coincided with
the Tucker Lectures, and many law
alumni will be on hand from non-
reunion years.

Saturday will be a full day cul-
minating in the individual class
banquets and the following “‘so-
cial.”” Remember the ladies are es-
pecially invited to attend all of
the events. Dress will be informal.
If you are interested there will be
time for a little golf so bring along
your sticks.

Watch closely now for all the
mailings and take prompt action.
In this way we can disseminate the
information quickly and _ easily.
The entire University family is
looking forward to the reunions.
We hope you are planning to be
with us.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

CHAPTER CORRESPONDENTS

Sen ee M. M. Long, Jr., °48,
Paul National, Bank Building, St.
Paul, Virginia

Augusta-Rockingham—J. B. Stombock, ’41,
Box 594, Waynesboro, Virginia

Atlanta—Farris P, Hotchkiss, '58, 370 Al-
berta Terrace, N.E., Apt. 2-D

Baltimore—Lawrence W. Galloway, °48, 6
Longwood Road

Birmingham—John V. Coe, ’25, 1631 North
3rd Street

Charleston, West Virginia—Ruge P. DeVan,
Jr., '34, United Carbon Building

Chattanooga—Gerry U. Stephens, '50, 2720
Haywood Avenue

Chicago—Charles A, Strahorn, '28, Winnet-
ka Trust and Savings Bank, Winnetka,
Illinois

Charlotte—John Schuber, Jr., °44, 1850
Sterling Road, Charlotte 9, N. C.

Southern Ohio—Robert F. Wersel, we 1925
Rockwood Drive, Cincinnati 8,

Cleveland—Hal R. Gates, Jr.,
Wickfield Road, Cleveland 22

Cumberland Valley—James L. Rimler, ‘31,
N. Court St., Frederick, Maryland

Danville—C. Richmond Williamson, ‘51,
P. O. Box 497

Florida West Coast—Charles P. Lykes, ‘39,
P. O. Box 2879, Tampa, Florida

Houston—Robert I. Peeples, ’57, 2344 South
Boulevard

Jacksonville—Robert P. Smith, Jr., °54,
1221 Florida Title Building

Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, ‘49, 15 West
10th Street

Louisville—Robert W. Vaughan, ’50, Suite
1149, Starks Building

Lynchburg—William W. Lynn, Jr., ’23,
1105 Episcopal School Road

Mid-South—J. Hunter Lane, Jr., °52, 727
Commerce Title Bldg., Memphis, Tenn.

New Orleans—James W. Hammett, ‘40,
1215 Prytaina Street, New Orleans 40,
Louisiana

New York—Paul E. Sanders, °43, 96 Ralph
Avenue, White Plains, New York

New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Mo-
ran, ‘13, Beckley, West Virginia

Norfolk, Virginia—Ferdinand Phillips, Jr.,
'51, 1705 Banning Rd., Norfolk

North Texas—J. B. Sowell, Jr., °54 Ed-
wards, Fortson, Sowell and Akin, 23rd
Floor Adolphus Tower, Dallas 2, Texas

Northern Louisiana—Robert U. Goodman,
’50, 471 Leo Street, Shreveport, Louisiana

Palm Beach-Ft. Lauderdale—Meredith F.
Baugher, ’25, 210 Orange Grove Road,
Palm Beach, Florida

Peninsula—John P. Bowen, Jr., '51. The
Daily Press, Inc., 215-217 25th Street,
Newport News, Virginia

Philadelphia—Stephen Berg, ’58, 535 Pel-
ham Road

Piedmont—A, M. Pullen, Jr., '36, 203 ae
eastern Building, Greensboro, N

Pittsburgh—A. M. Doty, ’'35, oe Hill
Road, Fox-Chapel, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Richmond—C. W. Pinnell, Jr., °42, Pin-
nell’s, Incorporated, 701-703 West Broad
Street, Richmond 20, Virginia

Roanoke—William R. Holland, a Moun-
tain Trust Bank, P. O. Box 141

ee 19801

San Antonio—John W. Goode, A "43, 201
N. St. Mary’s Street
St. Louis—Albert H. Hamel, °50, 483 Polo

Drive, Clayton 5, Missouri
Tri-State—Joe W. Dingess, ’21, 151 Kings
Highway, Huntington, West Virginia
Tulsa—Phillip R. Campbell, °57, 603 Phil-

tower Bldg., Tulsa, Oklahoma
upper Potomac—Thomas N. Berry, °38, 15
Allegany ao Cumberland, Maryland
Washington, C. Arthur Clarendon
Smith, Jr., a 1313 7 You Street, N.W.
Wilmington, Delaware—A. Robert Abra-
hams, Jr., ’37, 303 Waverly Rd.

 

If you move, contact the nearest
chapter correspondent for
news of meetings.

WINTER 1962

NOTICE TO ALL LAW ALUMNI

The Tucker Lectures and Law Day Weekend are on May 4 and 5, 1962,
at the same time as the Anniversary Class Reunions. Makes plans to come.

 

CLasSsS NOTES

1892

Miss Julia Davis, daughter of the late
Joun W. Davis, has written a book of
family memoirs entitled “Legacy of Love,”
(Harcourt, Brace & World). ‘The work is
a reminiscent account of both sides of
her family for three generations, well
documented with old diaries and letters.
The result is a remarkably true-to-life
portrait of her father, one of the ablest
Americans of his time.

John W. Davis’ political career includ-
ed a term in Congress, Solicitor General,
Ambassador to Great Britain, and Demo-
cratic nominee for President. He was de-
feated by Calvin Coolidge in the 1924
election. He was a trustee of Mutual Life
of New York for nearly 30 years.

As a corporation counsel and consti-
tutional lawyer he had few equals. His
clients ranged from J. P. Morgan to Rob-
ert Oppenheimer. He argued more cases
before the Supreme Court than any at-
torney before him, but he refused two
offers to serve on the Supreme Court. Mr
Davis died March 24, 1955.

1894

Dr. JAmes B. Butuitr has been retired for
fifteen years after a fifty-year teaching
career and is living in Chapel Hill, North

Carolina. Dr. Bullitt has taught at the
University of Louisville, the University
of Virginia, the University of Mississippi,
and the University of North Carolina.

1902

Dr. W. T. Exvxis of Philadelphia, Pennsyl-

vania, received the 1961 University of
Pennsylvania award of “Distinguished
Senior Alumnus.”

1905

Ext M. MILLEN, who was valedictorian of
his class, now spends his winters in St.
Petersburg, Florida. Mr. Millen, an oc-
togenarian, reports that the printer’s ink
in his blood is still so thick that ‘‘con-
stant up-dating of nostalgia has been a
compensating factor in mental and phys-
ical activity.” His interest in politics, edu-
cation, and the economics of the United
States and the world has never ceased to
offer a challenge to his wisdom and un-
derstanding. Mr. Millen’s journalistic
career began with cub reporting on the
Memphis Commercial Appeal. Editorial
work on the Cincinnati Commercial Tr-
bune, the Cincinnati Enquirer, and the
New York Times was followed by the
Associate Editorship of the Ladies Home

 

Occupational File Progress

m AS THIS ISSUE of the Alumni Mag-
azine goes to press, there have been
6,009 Occupational questionnaires
returned in response to the appeal
to alumni to provide the Univer-
sity with vital information on their
activities

This figure is less than 60 per
cent of the total number of ques-
tionnaires (10,996) mailed to form-
er students, including 130 alumni
in foreign countries. For the in-
formation contained in the respon-

ses to be valid statistically in any
analysis of alumni occupations, ex-
perts say that the return must be
better than 80 per cent. We're
shooting for 100 per cent.

Return forms are still coming in,
and virtually all have been com-
pleted in admirable detail. It you
are among the several thousand
who have not responded, please do
so immediately. If you’ve misplaced
the form, we’ll be happy to send
you another one. Just let us know.

21

 

 

Journal and then the Managing Editor-
ship of McCall’s.

1906

After fifty-six years of practicing law, H.
CLAUDE PoBsT now has in his office more
actively contested and important cases
than he has ever had. At seventy-seven
years of age, in 1960, Mr. Pobst took a
trip around the world and _ this past
summer took a 6800 mile trip through
the West. He has been on every contin-
ent except Australia and writes, “I shall
continue to go...I work from seven
to eight hours every day, and never had
an ache or pain. I take perhaps four or
five aspirin tablets a year, and perhaps
three or four blood pressure pills a
year, and go when and where I wish with-
out trouble.”

1908

Hiram M. Dow, Civilian Aide to the
Secretary of the Army for New Mexico,
attended the annual conference of Civil-
ian Aides held by Secretary of the Army
Elvis J. Stahr, Jr., at Fort Monroe, Vir-
ginia, in December. Mr. Dow, an attor-
ney in Roswell, New Mexico, has been a
Civilian Aide to the Secretary of the
Army since 1937. The Aides are appoint-
ed for two-year terms to represent the
Army in interpreting Army policies and
doctrines for the civilian communities in
their area. At the conference in Decem-
ber, the Civilian Aides, representing ev-
ery state, were brought up-to-date on
recent developments within the Army
and plans for the future.

1910

The Arkansas Bar Association honored
Jupcre Harry J. LEMLey recently with a
plaque presented to him as a tribute in
recognition of his extraordinary contri-
bution to the Bench and Bar. Appointed
by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in
1939 as Federal Judge, Judge Lemley re-
tired in 1958 after sitting on every fed-
eral district bench in Arkansas. The
most famous of his decisions, perhaps,
dealt with the school integration ques-
tion in Little Rock. In part, the plaque
reads: “Judge Harry J. Lemley has re-
tired from active service, but his opin-
ions still live in the law... the Arkan-
sas Bar Association conveys apprecia-
tion...for services devotedly rendered,
for the exercise of sound judicial tem-
perament, and for having widely found
and applied the law.”

1911

JupcE W. KENDALL LEMLEY, Municipal
Judge of Hope, Arkansas, retired from
the bench on March ist after almost
thirty years of service. Judge Lemley was
on the bench for seven full four-year
terms and was opposed for office only
once. Judge Lemley expects to continue
a limited law practice at his home. He
is a brother of Federal Judge Harry J.
LEMLEY, °10, who was honored by the

232

Arkansas Bar recently for his extra-
ordinary services.

A retired Army Colonel, ALEXANDER C.
KNIGHT writes from Alexandria, Virginia,
that he has passed his 76th birthday and
going strong. He regrets having missed his
50th reunion this past spring.

1912

After serving as a country pastor of Pres-
byterian Churches for forty-four years,
W. GRAHAM Woop retired in 1961 and is
residing in Chester, Virginia.

1914

Thirty years of government service brings
well-deserved retirement to DAvID BRock-
MAN WINFREY Of Martinsburg, West Vir-
ginia. Mr. Winfrey spent twenty-four of
these years with the Department of Jus-
tice in Washington, D.C.

1915

JupGE MILLARD FILLMORE Hays has spent
thirty-three years as superintendent and
principal of high schools in the state of
Kentucky. For the past eleven years he has
been in insurance and real estate business
in Elizabethtown, Kentucky. Mr. Hays
has three children, one of whom, a son, is
engaged in business with him.

A portrait of the late Curer Justice Tay-
LOR H. Srukes of the Supreme Court of
South Carolina was unveiled at memorial
ceremonies in Columbia, South Carolina,

in November. The painting by Arthur
Murray, noted portraitist of New York,
hangs in the Supreme Court room at the
State House. Before a large crowd gath-
ered to pay tribute, Justice G. Dewey
Oxner eulogized Judge Stukes as a man
who believed primarily in impartial de-
cision, who harmonized conflicting views
with an open mind, and who dealt justice
with great intellectual honesty and with
all the dignity of the legal profession.

1916

THE HON. CLARENCE J. BROWN is now in
his twenty-fourth year as a Member of
Congress, but he is also engaged in run-
ning newspapers in Ohio, his home state.

GRADY Forcy writes that his fourteen
grandchildren keep him “‘spry as ever.”
‘There are ten grandsons, and five of them
are Forgys who expect to be on the Wash-
ington and Lee campus around 1970-77.

Former football great, E. B. SHULTZz, re-
tired from the ‘Tennessee Valley Author-
ity in October, 1959. He is now serving
an appointment as visiting professor at
the New York State School of Industrial
and Labor Relations, Cornell Univer-
sity. He and his wife, the former Vir-
ginia Barclay, maintain their residence
in Norris, Tennessee.

Norvin C. EVANS states that he is prob-
ably the most “retired”? alumnus. “Chick”
retired as colonel in the US Army Re-

 

 

m THE PRESENT James Drury Flow-
ers, "14, is eminently representative
of his family’s educational heritage
over 200 years’ standing in Mont-
gomery County, Alabama. He has
inherited the Flowers family’s in-

clination to lead in civic life, and
in Montgomery, since 1914 when
Mr. Flowers returned from his four
years at Washington and Lee, he
has filled prominent positions in
the city’s life.

Mr. Flowers has continuously car-
ried on the tradition that the fam-
ily should invest, without thought
of remuneration, in lives of young
people having no means to ad-
vance themselves educationally.

As director of the Alabama Na-
tional Bank, Mr. Flowers was on
the County Board of Education for
21 years before retiring in 1956,
and presently he serves as ‘Trustee
of the First Methodist Church and
of Huntingdon College. A new ele-
mentary school, equipped with the
finest modern facilities, was erected
in 1960 in Montgomery County
and was named the Flowers Ele-
mentary School in tribute to the
Flowers family.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Robert  F.

m@ ATTORNEY-GENERAL
Kennedy presented William O.
Burtner, ’17, a service pin and gold
key chain upon his retirement on
last January 6 as a Justice Depart-
ment attorney and from his duties
as the busiest and most prolific

“ghost-writer’ in the Federal gov-
ernment.

The presentation was made at a
luncheon in his honor attended by
100 Justice Department officials.
The Attorney-General also read a
letter to Mr. Burtner from ‘“‘anoth-

er public servant” at the White
House, a letter in which President
Kennedy praised him for his “fidel-
ity and skill” as an attorney adviser
in Justice’s Office of Legal Counsel
for the past 38 years and expressed
warm thanks for himself and his
presidential predecessors in office.

In 28 of his 38 years with the Jus-
tice Department, Mr. Burtner as a
“rewrite man” for Presidential pap-
ers, has written an estimated 4,700
executive orders and 1,400 procla-
mations over the signatures of Pres-
idents Harding, Coolidge, Hoover,
Roosevelt, ‘Truman, Eisenhower,
and Kennedy. His literary efforts
ranged from such prosaic docu-
ments as the declaration of a legal
holiday to weightier ones such as
Truman’s seizure of the steel com-
panies and Eisenhower’s dispatch
of Federal troops to Little Rock.

Before going with the Justice
Department, Mr. Burtner taught
English at Washington and Lee.
He now hopes to spend much of his

time in travel and in reading.

 

serves, 1951; retired from Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, 1953; retired from
Lincoln Bank & Trust Company of Louis-
ville, 1961. He and Mrs. Evans are kept
busy commuting between Louisville,
where they have three grandsons, and
California, where they have two grand-

daughters.
1917

GEORGE N. DANIELSON writes from _ St.
Paul, Minnesota, where he retired some
twelve years ago. ‘Taking all proper medi-
cal care, he says he hopes to make his
50th remunion in 10967.

For 45 years, BRADFORD L. ‘THOMPSON, has
been in the school equipment and sup-
ply business with William G. Johnston
Company. He received good training, for
while he was at W. and L. he acted as
secretary to President Louis Smith while
carrying a full course of studies. During
the last 20 of these years with W. G.
Johnston, he was General Manager of
the School Equipment and Supply Di-
vision. A native of Opelousas, Louisiana,
Mr. Thompson now lives in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.

1918

Always active, A. CARTER CRYMBLE, retired
from ‘Tenn.-Eastman Company on_ Feb-

WINTER 1962

ruary ist and opened a consulting engi-
neering office that same date in Kingsport,
‘Tennessee.

After 41 years of government service as
an Aeronautical Engineer in the de-
partment of Navy—and_ especially air-

 

WILLIAM H. LEeEpy, ‘49
Federal Reserve Bank of
Kansas City
10th and Grand
Kansas City 6, Missouri

 

NOTICE

Nominations will close April 9, 1962, ....

for the three vacancies on the Alumni Board of Trustees and the
one vacancy for the alumni representative to the University Com-
mittee on Intercollegiate Athletics. Send your nominations imme-
diately to any member of the Nominating Committee as follows:

Joun BELL TowlLt, '29, Chairman
1015-21 Southern Finance Building
Augusta, Georgia

FRED BARTENSTEIN, JR., °39
R.F.D. No. 1
Mendham, New Jersey

 

 

23

 

 

 

JosepH B. Copper, ’28

craft propeller design—RAyMOoND M. BEAR
retired December 31, 1960. Ray is un-
certain, with so many firm roots in Wash-
ington, whether or not he and his wife
should succumb to the lure of more prom-
ising environment such as Florida.

1920

Harry L. Moore retired from V.P.I. in
1957. After three years with ICA in Laos,
working in the agricultural program, he
again retired in 1960 and makes his home
in Blacksburg, Virginia.

The president of the Rotary Club of Phil-
mont (N.Y.) this year, Cart A. Foss
writes that this “duty” plus the care
of his 130-acre farm keeps him_ busy.

192]

In Richmond, Virginia, Dr. R. D. GARCIN
is practicing internal medicine and at the
same time is Medical Director of Hope
Harbor Hospital for Alcoholism and_ is
the physician for the City Jail of Rich-
mond.

In R. G. KeEtty’s life outdoor activities
have played a big part. For almost forty
years he has been engaged in the prac-
tice of law in Charleston, West Virginia,
and has taken an active part in the poli-
tical and business life of his state. But
he has taken time to follow hunting and
fishing pursuits into each of the fifty
states, Canada, and many foreign coun-
tries. ‘These outdoor reminiscences are
recorded in a recent book by Mr. Kelly
entitled Trails, Trouts and Tigers. ‘The
book may be ordered from the Education
Foundation, Incorporated, of Charleston,
West Virginia.

WILLIAM FRANCIS MCCANN of New Cas-
tle, Pennsylvania, this year will complete
forty years of service with the Pitts-

24

burgh and Lake Erie Railway and _ ex-
pects to retire and travel in Europe.

1923

The minister of ‘Trinity Presbyterian
Church in Port Neches, Texas, REv. RaAy-
MOND G. WICKERSHAM has accepted a
call to Charleston, South Carolina, where
he will be pastor of the Goose Creek
Presbyterian Church (now a chapel) and
also minister to college students in the
Charleston area. He and Mrs. Wicker-
sham have six children and ten grand-
children.

Effective January 1, 1962, ANDREW How-
ELL HArRISs, JR., became Assistant to
Chief Engineer Communication of the
Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company
with offices in Jacksonville, Florida.

1924

W. Ciirrorpd Situ is chief engineer of
the Stonega Coke & Coal Company in
Big Stone Gap, Virginia. In addition, his
civic duties include membership on the
‘Town Council and the Town Planning
and Zoning Commission and serving as
consulting engineer for the town. Mr.
Smith engages also in many _ fraternal
and club activities.

1925

E. W. ALEXANDER is partner and general
manager of the Oldsmobile Agency in
Beaumont, ‘Texas. The Alexanders have
two daughters, a 17 year old grandson,
and a 14 year old granddaughter.

1926

The ABC-TV program “Meet the Profes-
sor’ introduced Dr. Ropert CARL YATES
on February 4. As a lecturer for the
National Science Foundation, Dr. Yates
has traveled extensively throughout Flor-
ida consulting with high school students
and teachers on studying and_ teaching
mathematics. He has taught at a num-
ber of universities and colleges and em-
ploys a dramatic presentation of new
mathematical concepts. “Meet the Pro-
fessor” is produced in cooperation with
the Association of Higher Education and
features a different professor from a
different locale each Sunday.

In September, 1961, Grorce L. HILi
joined the International Banking De-
partment of the Continental [linois Na-
tional Bank. His successes skyrocketed
and on December 8, 1961, he was ap-
pointed Second Vice-President.

1928

State bank examiner, ALTON R. MIDDL:#-
KAUFF, points out that embezzlements in
Maryland Chartered State banking insti-
tutions have, so far, been minor, and he
and his board plan to keep it that way.

 

WILLIAM ‘T. Owen, ’28

WILLIAM 'T. OweEN, treasurer of the New
York Telephone Company, was elected
a director of the Bank of Commerce in
New York at its annual stockholders’ meet-
ing in January. Mr. Owen entered the
telephone company in 1928 and_ has
served as its treasurer since 1958. Before
that he had advanced through various
assignments in the company’s financial
department. He was its banking repre-
sentative in 1946 and was appointed as-
sistant secretary and assistant treasurer
in 1951. Mr. Owen and his wife reside
in Mountain Lakes, New Jersey. ‘They
have two children and one grandson.

Joun E. BAILEy is semi-retired from life
insurance business in Longview, Texas.
Buck writes that he enjoys excellent
health and is fishing and hunting most
of the time.

The appointment of JosEPH BENJAMIN
COPPER as vice-president for personnel
and compensation of United States Steel
was announced in November. In 1935 Mr.
Copper joined U.S. Steel as assistant to
the industrial engineer in New York, af-
ter working for the Westinghouse X-Ray
Corporation. He then served in various
posts with U.S. Steel—as engineer, assist-
and comptroller, and an administrative
planner—in New York, Birmingham, and
Pittsburgh. His work with the personnel
division of U.S. Steel began in 1958 when
he was appointed an assistant in the of-
fice which he now heads. Mr. Copper is
a native of Lexington, Virginia.

1929

JuLius G. Berry is engaged in a gen-
eral insurance business in ‘Tupelo, Miss-
issippi, and this year Mr. Berry is working
also to put over the United Fund Drive
in ‘Tupelo. He and his wife and two
step-sons, the older one a freshman in

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Harvard Medical School, live in “Parc
Monceau” just out of ‘Tupelo.

1930

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM WELSH, a
son, William Talbott, December 18, 1961.
Dr. Welsh is the 1961-62 president of
the Nevada Heart Association and has
practiced medicine in Gabbs, Nevada,
since 1956.

I’. L. SHIPMAN, SR., has been re-appointed
to another three-year term as a mem-
ber of the 17-man Board of Commission-
ers on Grievances and Discipline of the
Supreme Court of Ohio. This board was
created by the Supreme Court in 1957,
and Mr. Shipman has been a member
since its inception.

SAM W. RayperR, Executive Vice-Presi-
dent and Trust Officer of the Rockbridge
National Bank, has been named a mem-
ber of the bank’s Board of Directors. Mr.
Rayder is also a member of the Lexing-
ton ‘Town Council.

C. Irvinc Lewis has moved from Golds-
boro, North Carolina, to Martinsville, Vir-
ginia, where he became minister of the
Anderson Memorial Presbyterian Church
on January 1, 1962.

1931

JouN H. HaArpwick has been made Presi-
dent of The Louisville Trust Company,
after association with the bank since 1934
and holding the office of senior vice-presi-
dent since 1958. When in college, Mr.
Hardwick was a member of the basketball
team and the band and was elected to
Phi Beta Kappa. At present he is a
sports enthusiast whose hobbies also in-
clude music and politics, and in 1956 he
was Republican general finance chairman
for Louisville. Mr. Hardwick is a mem-
ber of the executive council of the Am-
erican Bankers’ Association and is a
former vice-president of the association.

On January ist, STANLEY D. WAXBERG be-
came a partner in the law firm of Kaye,
Fierman, Scholar, Hays, and Handler,
with office in New York City.

1932

MARRIED: Ropert KEENE HOADLEY and
Florence ‘T. Jablonsky were married on
December 23, 1961, in St. Louis County,
Missouri, in Salem Methodist Church. Mr.
Hoadley has been an instructor of Eng-
lish for sixteen years in St. Louis County.

WILLIAM D. Hoyr is editor of the John
Carroll papers, a publication planned for
the near future. Dr. Hoyt has just com-
pleted a three-year team at Catholic Uni-
versity in Washington, D.C., as a_lec-
turer in history and now resides in Rock-
port, Massachusetts, where he enjoys his
home, built in 1720.

Returning to college teaching after some
twenty-years in other fields, WrILLiAmM
CLYDE CAPEL is now assistant professor

WINTER 1962

of sociology at Clemson College, Clemson,
South Carolina.

MARTIN P. Burks, general counsel of the
Norfolk and Western Railway, was chair-
man of an administrative committee to
plan for the entertainment of the Gov-
ernor of Virginia and the entire General
Assembly and their wives in Roanoke in
February. ‘The legislators’ weekend  in-
cluded tours to places of interest in West-
ern Virginia.

E. CARLYLE LyNcuH, a_ beekeeper since
1946, is the designer of a honey dish
which has been put on the market in gift
shops and glassware departments. The
design for the dish was accepted for
manufacture by the Fenton Art Glass
Company at Williamstown, West Virginia.
The motif of the design is that of bees
on the honeycomb and the dish, in either
amber or milk glass, is square and made
to hold a section box comb of honey.
Carlyle is a teacher of drafting and in-
dustrial arts at the Broadway High School
in Broadway, Virginia.

1934

In addition to the demanding position as
president of the Little Rock School Board,
EVERETT ‘TUCKER, JR., keeps busy running
a planned industrial district, a livestock
auction center, and a family cotton plan-
tation.

The mayor of Milford, Connecticut,
CHARLES IOvINO, in November announced
his candidacy for re-election as the head
of the city’s newly organized Indepen.-
dent Party.

1935

WILLIAM L. WILSON was elected president-
elect of the Kentucky State Bar Associa-
tion on January 16th. He has served as
vice-president of the Association. Billy’s
election came about after a nominating
petition placed his name on the ballot,
and it was the first time in the history
of the Kentucky Bar Association that a
candidate nominated by such a _ petition
was elected.

PEYTON B. WINFREE, JR., executive assis-
tant to former Governor J. Lindsay A\l-
mond, is now a special assistant in the
office of the director of the State Depart-
ment of Conservation and Economic De-
velopment. Before coming to the gov-
ernor’s office in 1958, Peyton was manag-
ing editor of the Lynchburg News and
Daily Advance. In his present position,
he will advise on the department’s pub-
lic relations programs and, among other
duties, will do editorial work on techni-
cal reports and handle releases of in
formation to the press.

GEORGE R. GLYNN is now assistant vice-
president and sales manager for the
Northern District for the Hosiery Division
of Burlington Industries. The family lives
in New Canaan, Connecticut.

Joun D. Spour is division manager for

Fleetwing Corporation, a subsidiary of
Standard Oil of Ohio. He is responsible
for marketing operations in the Central
Michigan area, northwestern Ohio, and
a portion of Indiana adjacent to Ohio.
The family lives in Howell, Michigan,
where they enjoy good skiing.

1936

The 1962 president of the U.S. Lawn
Tennis Association is EDWARD A. ‘TURVILLE
of St. Petersburg, Florida. A practicing at.
torney, he has been a member of the
USLTA’s executive committee since 1954
and an officer since 1958.

1937

The new chairman of the Division of
History and Social Sciences at Florida Pres-
byterian College is Dr. WILLIAM C. WIL-
BUR, a member of the founding faculty of
this college in St. Petersburg. Dr. Wilbur
earned his doctorate at Columbia Univer-
sity, specializing in modern British his-
tory, and also studied at the London
School of Economics and Political Sci-
ence. He taught at Muhlenberg College
in Pennsylvania for fifteen years before
going to FPC. Dr. Wilbur is now working
on a book about a phase of British poli-
tical history.

A member of the Commission’s staff since
1946, DonaLpD R. Moore is now hearing
examiner for the Federal Trade Com-
mission. For the past ten years Don has
been a trial attorney specializing in anti-
monopoly cases, and prior to this legal
work, he was in newspaper and public
information service. His present import-
ant position involves hearing examiners
present the evidence in FITC cases and
making initial decisions subject to Com-
mission review.

JAmes K. BUTLER is presently the region-
al manager for Pan American-Grace Air-
ways, Inc., in Lima, Peru. In addition to
this occupation, Butler serves in many
community activities. He was, in 1955,
president of the American Society, an
organization of some 800 American fam-
ilies living in Peru, primarily in Lima.
‘The purposes of the Society are manifold:
sponsoring the Boy Scout and Girl Scout
movement among American children;
looking after destitute Americans; chari-
table work; and entertainment of Am-
erican naval ship crews.

Jim is also president and director of
The American School of Lima. The school
has 850 students made up of approximate-
ly 45 North Americans, 45 per cent Peru-
vians, and 10 per cent various nationa}-
ities. ‘The school was begun in 1946 by
American companies located in Lima
and has rapidly expanded.

1938

The new president-elect of the Virginia
State Bar Association is WALDO G. MILEs.
This post automatically places him in the
presidency for 1962-63, and his election

25

 

came by acclamation at the recent anual
meeting. A member of the State Bar since
1939, Waldo has served on various com-
mittees and as chairman of the Com-
mittee on Memorials and the Committee
on Membership. He is a diretor of Bris-
tol Memorial Hospital and a member of
the Bristol, Virginia, School Board.

The district manager for the industrial
division of Armstrong Cork Company is
J. GrEoRGE OSTERTAG. George and his wife
have two children, and the family lives in
Webster Groves, Missouri.

In November, JOHN SHOAF, manager of
the World Trade Department of the Dal-
las Chamber of Commerce, was named
as one of four American trade advisers to
the United States Resources and ‘Trade
Development Mission to Chile. This ap-
pointment was made by U.S. Secretary of
Commerce, Luther Hodges, and marks
the first time a Chamber of Commerce
representative in the United States has
been so honored. ‘The mission in Chile
began in November and lasted six weeks.
John has been with the Chamber of
Commerce in Dallas and executive sec-
retary of the Dallas Manufacturers and
Wholesalers Association, Inc., for the past
two years.

1939

WALLER Ceci. Harpy is associate manager
of the Parkersburg, West Virginia, office of
Bache & Company. Cecil is also a partner
of this New York investment firm.

Harry E. ReEDENBAUGH has been elected
vice-president of Mine Safety Appliance
Company, Pittsburgh, and president of its
international affiliate, MSA International.
All international operations of the parent

 

Harry E. REDENBAUGH, °39

company will be under Harry’s supervis-
ion. MSA International has operations in
Canada, South Africa, Scotland, Germany,
Italy, Venezuela, Mexico, and France.
Among his many associations, he is a di-
rector of the International Safety Coun-
cil, International Executive Association,
and Foreign Commerce Committee of the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

Joun L. Davis in Indianapolis, Indiana,
has recently formed a new business, the
Kool Kit Corporation, to market an in-
sulated travel kit for diabetics to provide
a safe and convenient way to protect in-
sulin supplies.

 

m# THE APPOINTMENT of Robert E.
Steele, ’41, as director of public re-
lations for Electronic Communica-
tions, Inc., of Florida, was an-
nounced in January.

Mr. Steele has been with General
Dynamics Corporation since 1953,
serving as director of internal com-
munications for the past year and
previously as New York public rela-
tions manager for the Electric Boat
Division in Groton, Connecticut.
Earlier he was director of informa-
tion for the Virginia Department
of Highways and a reporter for the
Roanoke, Virginia, World News.

Mr. Steele is a member of the
Public Relations Society of Ameri-
ca and the Overseas Press Club. He
is a past-president of the New York
Alumni Chapter. He and his family

26

 

will make their home in St. Peters-
burg, Florida.

MARTIN V. PARTENOPE was chairman of
the organizing group that founded the
Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 45 of the
Free and Accepted Masons of Sparks,
Nevada. The lodge was chartered on De-
cember 9, 1961, with Martin as its first
secretary. He and his wife are motel
proprietors in Reno, Nevada.

1941

James F. Norron is in the general prac-
tice of medicine in E. Aurora, New York.
The Norton’s have five children—three
sons and two daughters.

The January Reader’s Digest tells of the
key role played by FRED BARTENSTEIN in
uncovering a fabulous spying operation in
Merck & Company, a top pharmaceutical
manufacturer. The article is entitled
“Spies Invade Big Business.” Fred is gen-
eral counsel for Merck.

1942

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GENE RAY JOHN-
STON, a son, Gene Ray, Hl, January 16,
1962.

Leaving a woman’s specialty shop in
Youngstown, Ohio, as manager, LEON
J. Warns has opened his own shop, “The
Clothes ‘Tree, Incorporated,”  specializ-
ing in casual wear for ladies. The furn-
ishings in the store are all antiques, lend-
ing an atmosphere of a real, old-fashioned
country store.

Serving for the first time in the Virginia
House of Delegates, BERNARD LEVIN was
appointed immediately by the Speaker of
the House to four committees: Militia
and Police, Currency and Commerce, Im-
migration, and Chesapeake and its Tribu-
taries.

Attorney JOHN ALEXANDER of Warrenton,
Virginia, won election to the State Sen-
ate in January in a balloting to fill a va-
cancy caused by the resignation of Robert
Y. Button who will fill the place of At-
torney-General in the new administration.
John won his victory in a five-man race 1n
the 27th District in Northern Virginia.

Dr. WALTER ScoTr GILMER, JR., assumed
his duties as pathologist at Cape Fear
Valley Hospital in North Carolina on
January ist. Previously he was in the
Department of Pathology at the Medical
College of the University of ‘Tennessee in
Memphis.

Horace H. Jerer, a certified public ac-
countant of Shreveport, Louisiana, be-
came associated with the CPA firm of
Harris, Kerr, Forester & Company of
San Francisco in January.

Ftoyp K. YEOMANS writes from Jonesville,
Wisconsin, where he is in the insurance
business. His daughter, Frances, age six-
teen, is attending a boarding school in
Dobbs Ferry, New York, and his fourteen-
year-old son, Bob, is in the eighth grade
at Jonesville preparing for Washington
and Lee.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

WALTER CHARLES ABERG, JR., experienced
mortgage loan executive, in October
joined the Valley National Bank of Phoe-
nix, Arizona, as special representative in
the real estate department. He is assigned
to the bank’s mortgage loan headquar-
ters in Phoenix. For the past nine years
Walter has been active in his field in
both California and Arizona.

1943

Maintaining high performance on the golf
course, WILLIAM J]. NOONAN, JR., has won
the Five Flag Golf Championship of Pen-
sacola, Florida. Bill is the only two-time
consecutive winner. He is also winner of
the Scenic Hills Country Club Cham
pionship. The city of Pensacola has
named Bill the chairman of its Recreation
Board. He and his wife, Margaret, have
one son and three daughters.

RicHarp FE. BASILE is now administrative
Dean of Paul Smith’s College. He is also
the managing director of the college-
owned and operated Hotel Saranac on
Saranac Lake, New York.

The new president of the Baltimore Chap-
ter is LAWRENCE W. GALLOwAY. Larry is
sales manager for the Davidson Chemical
Co.—a division of the W. R. Grace Co.
His territory requires traveling from New
England to Florida and as far west as
Kansas. The Galloways have a fine fam-
ily of seven children—5 daughters and 2
sons.

EARL ALVERSON is now vice-president in
charge of sales at the Southeastern Metals
Company in Birmingham, Alabama. He
and his wife have two daughters and a
son.

RALPH S. TaccArt of Crosby, Mississippi,
writes of his great interest in Virginia. His
daughter, Molly, is a sophomore at St.
Catherine’s in Richmond, and his son,
Scott, expects to enter Episcopal High
School in Alexandria this fall.

Ropert C. MEHoRTER, formerly of Rich-
mond, has moved to New Jersey where
he is administrative assistant for the
Southeastern division of The Home In-
surance Company.

As running mates, FREDERICK W. BAUER
and RONALD A. SHERWOOD, ’49, were elect-
ed in November, 1960, to the township
committee of Wayne, New Jersey. ‘These
same two alumni were again successful in
an election in 1961 in Wayne for the
office of councilman-at-large for a four-
year term, 1962-66. Fred and Mrs. Bauer
and their four sons are living in Wayne,
New Jersey, where he is a research chem-
ist with Allied Chemical Corporation.

1944

The Rev. JoHN N. McCormick is dean of
the Cathedral Church of the Nativity in
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.

JOHN ScHUBER, JR., has been elected vice-

WINTER 1962

 

ELiis O. Moore, °45

president of Wachovia Bank and ‘Trust
Company in Charlotte, North Carolina.
John, who specializes in pension trusts,
joined the bank in 1949, was elected as-
sistant trust officer in 1952, and advanced
to trust officer in 1956.

Living in Atlanta, Frep M. VAtz, JR., is a
group engineer in the Lockheed-Georgia
Company in Marrietta, Georgia. He and
his wife, Mary Frances, have a son, Fred,
I1I, who is four years old.

A vice-president of the Groos National
Bank of San Antonio, ROBERT H. SEAL
was elected in November to the board of
directors of the bank. Bob is very active
in civic affairs in San Antonio and _ is
president of the Travelers’ Aid, a past-
president of the Exchange Club, past-

president of the Community Guidance
Center, and on the boards of the Visit-
ing Nurses Association, the Salvation
Army, and the United Fund Budget.

1945

MARRIED: Wit1iAmM B. GEIsE, JR., and
Miss Elizabeth Moroz were married on
November 11, 1961, in the Kingston Pres-
byterian Church of Kingston, Pennsyl-
vania. Bill is a mill representative sales-
man for Firth Carpet Company and _ has
New York State and Canada as his terri-
tory.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WALTER E. FRYE,
a son, Russell, February 2, 1962, in Santa
Barbara, California.

The National Broadcasting Company an-
nounced in December the election of
Eiurs O. Moore as vice-president, Press
and Publicity. This office places Ellis in
charge of NBC’s national press and pub-
licity operation. Before joining NBC in
1952, Ellis was in newspaper work, and
since his affiliation with the broadcasting
company, he has risen steadily in the
NBC Press Department.

1946

DoNALD S. HILLMAN, executive producer
and public affairs director for NET—the
“fourth network’’—met recently with Ari-
zona Republican Senator Barry Goldwater
during a recent pre-release videotape
origination of NET’s College News Con-
ference from the University of Arizona.
Don is a winner of the Peabody and Syl-
vania Award for “outstanding technique”
in the medium of TV.

In July, 1961, BEN M. Brown, JR., was
elected to the city council of Kingsport,
Tennessee. ‘The five-man council is pres-
ently involved in a very large city annex-
ation program.

Donatp S. HILLMAN, °46, right, chats with Senator BARRY GOLDWATER prior to taping
of television sequence.

27

 

ROBERT H. GRAy has joined Morton
Manufarcturing Corporation of Lynch-
burg, Virginia, and Memphis, ‘Tennessee,
as an advertising manager. His many re-
sponsibilities include creative planning,
production, and administration of ad-
vertising in all media for more than two
hundred of the firm’s brand name cos-
metics, household sundries, medicinal and
food products. Bob brings to this new post
nearly fifteen years of experience in the
advertising industry. During recent years
he has been an advertising copy chief
and account executive in Norfolk, Vir-
ginia, and before that he was associated
with national business and consumer pub-
lications in New York City and Wash-
ington, D.C., as sales promotion and ad-
vertising and circulation manager.

1947

David ‘Tl. LAUDERDALE, JR., is senior class
counselor and professor at Westminster
School in Atlanta.

J. Maurice MILLER, JRr., has been general
counsel of The Life Insurance Company
of Virginia. A native of Richmond, Mau-
rice was educated at St. Christopher’s
School and also received his LL.B. degree
in 1949 from Washington and Lee. He
joined Life of Virginia’s law department
as counsel in 1953 and five years later
was promoted to assistant general counsel.
He has served as associate general coun-
sel since 1960.

1948

JoHNnson McREE, Jr., has been named
comptroller of the Georator Corpora-
tion of Manassas, Virginia. Johnson was
formerly associated with the accounting
firm of Baker, Brydon, Rennolds & Whitt
of Richmond.

In addition to an insurance agency, LEwIs
H. McKENZIE is Owner-manager of a new
Radio Broadcasting Station with call let-
ters WMNZ in Montezuma, Georgia.

The newspaper column of CHARLES Mc-
DowELL, JR., which has been enjoyed by
readers of the Richmond Times-Dispatch
for seven years, has recently been syndi-
cated for national distribution. The col-
umn is entitled “Bystander” and is dis-
tributed three times a week by the Reg-
ister & Tribune Syndicate for publication
in about a dozen newspapers. Charlie
concentrates on Washington and nation-
al politics, but to the delight of his read-
ers, he also allows his wit to extend to
domestic problems, the arts, national fads,
and the folkways of Madison Avenue and
Suburbia. A collection of his columns was
recently published in the book, One
Thing After Another.

GILBERT H. WILSON, formerly with State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Com-
pany in Charlottesville, is now associated
with the law firm of Preston & Preston
in Norfolk, Virginia.

28

 

J. MaAurice MILLER, JR., °47

1949

RICHARD H. ‘TURRELL is now Investment
Officer with Fiduciary Trust Company of
New York City. Dick lives in Short Hills,
New Jersey.

Delegate ‘THomMAs R. GLass of the Vir-
ginia Legislature was picked for the cur-
rent year to serve on the House Appro-
priations Committee which handles the
budget on the House side of the legis-
lature.

LLoyp ApDISON LANIER who has been the
past several years in government service
in Washington, D.C., has returned to
Cincinnati where he is associated with
The Thomas J. Emory Memorial with
offices in Carew ‘Tower.

After three years as Accounting and
Finance Officer at Bunker Hill A.F.B., In-
diana, Major O. D. HAmrick, JR., has been
transferred back to a flying job. He now
operates KC-97’s out of Dover, Delaware.
Major and Mrs. Hamrick have two daugh-
ters and two sons.

WALTER H. WILLIAMS was awarded the
“Certified Property Manager” designation
and elected to the membership of the In-
stitute of Real Estate Management. Wal-
ter is vice-president of Slater and
Vaughan, Inc., realtors in charge of sales
and leasing shopping centers, office build-
ings, and warehouses. ‘The Williams and
their two children live in Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

1950

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JERRY DONOVAN,
Jr., a daughter, Molly, October 16, 1961.
Jerry is in the San Francisco office of
Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith,
Incorporated.

THomaAs C. Frost, JR., was elected presi-
dent of the Frost National Bank of San
Antonio, ‘Texas, in January. This elec-

tion by the board of directors saw Tom’s
father become chairman of the board.
Tom is the fifth president in the history
of the bank and the fourth Thomas C.
Frost to hold that office since the bank
was founded shortly after the War Be-
tween the States. The new president of
Southwest ‘Texas’ largest bank is 34 years
old and is a member of the board of di-
rectors and the executive committee of the
bank. He is one of the outstanding young
business men in the Southwest and is an
active leader in both community affairs
and state-wide projects.

Lacey E. PuTNey, a freshman member of
the Virginia House of Delegates from
Bedford County, was named chairman of
the House Committee on Printing. Lacey
was also assigned to the influential Fin-
ance Committee, which handles tax legis:
lation, and to two other committees.

After study under a Carnegie grant at
Rochester University this past summer,
ARTHUR MARENSTEIN is a teacher of his-
tory, English and geography at Elmont,
Long Island, High School.

WALTER L. HANNAH is now a partner in
the law firm of Adams, Kleemeier, Hagan
& Hannah in Greensboro, North Carolina.

Dr. Ropert S. MENDELSOHN is living in
St. Louis, Missouri, where he is in the
practice of internal medicine and hema-
tology.

After receiving a B.S. degree in electrical
engineering from the University of ‘Tol-
edo in 1951, DoNALD R. LAcKry contin-
ued his academic attainments and_ re-
ceived his LL.B. with distinction from
Wayne State University in 1961. Don is
a member of the Michigan State Bar
and is a sales engineer for Westinghouse
Electric Corporation. He and Mrs. Lack-
ey live in Livonia, Michigan, with their
three sons, age g years, 6 years, and 8
years.

CraiG CASTLE, formerly in the pratice of
law in Jackson, Mississippi, has withdrawn
from practice and is now vice-president
of Viking Oil Company, a Mississippi
corporation.

Dr. PETER MUHLENBERG is practicing pe-
diatrics in Reading, Pennsylvania. The
Muhlenbergs have two children, a_ boy
and a girl.

A lawyer in Washington, D.C., ArTHuR
A. BiRNEY was one of the founders of the
Washington Real Estate Investment ‘Trust
last spring under the new tax law and is
now one of the five trustees of this organi-

zation.
1951

BORN: Capt. and Mrs. EDWARD SOMERS
WHITE, a son, Edward Somers, II, De-
cember 23, 1961. Captain White is a medi-
cal officer in the USAF, stationed at Schil-
ling AFB, Kansas. He received his M.D.
degree from the University of Virginia

IN 1955.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Sot WACHTLER was recently elected vice-
chairman of the Nassau County Repub-
lican committee. He is also district chair-
man of the cerebral palsy committee. Sol
is a practicing lawyer in Mineola, New
York.

Lrestiz L. MASON, Jr., is substitute Coun-
ty Judge for Amelia and Powhatan Coun-
ties, Virginia.

STEVE Coco is engaged in the private
practice of law in Jennings, Louisiana.
He and his wife, the former Fay More-
land of Baton Rouge, have two sons and
three daughters.

Burton L. Litwin is close to the thea-
ters in New York City. He is an attor-
ney-at-law specializing in theatrical law
in all phases of the entertainment indus-
try. Burt and Mrs. Litwin have one son.

In 1956 Joe KLING received an M.B.A. de-
gree from the Wharton School of Finance
and Commerce, University of Pennsyl-
vania. Since then Joe and his wife and
year-old daughter have been living in
Kingsport, Tennessee, where he is em-
ployed as an accountant and_ presently
as Systems Analyst with ‘Tennessee East-
man Company, a division of Eastman
Kodak.

1952

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. EpwIn F. SCHAEFER,

Jr., a son, Cameron Sherwood, January 5,
1962. Ed is a partner in the law firm of
Bullett, Dawson, and ‘Tarrant in Louis-
ville, Kentucky.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. MCDOWELL,
a son, John F., Jr., October 25, 1961. John
is with State Farm Mutual and is now liv-
ing in Charlottesville, Virginia.

FLETCHER TALLEY McCLINTOCK is’ with
Cities Service Petroleum Company, and he
and Mrs. McClintock and their two sons
live in Lafayette, Louisiana.

PrestOoN C. MANNING is continuing his
surgical residency at the Mayo Clinic.
With Dr. Manning are two other doc-
tor “Minks’—Dr. Harry LAWRENCE, ’53,
and Dr. PAUL KRrocH, ’56.

Davin WILLIAM HEDGE is assistant basket-
ball coach at Jeffersonville (Indiana) High
School.

A long-held ambition to ride trains free
has been fulfilled by CHaArLEs B. CASTNER.
In December he became a regular member
of the staff of the L. & N. Railroad Maga-
zine, and as an employee he now carries
a railroad pass.

J. Roy MELTON is with the Amerada

Petroleum Company in Lafayette, Louis-
iana, working as a development geologist.

BARKLEY J. STURGILL was elected prose-
cuting attorney of his district of Pres-

 

 

m= “YOUNG MAN OF THE YEAR’ of

Chattanooga for 1961, ‘Thomas A.
Lupton, Jr., won the coveted Dis-
tinguished Service Award of the
Chattanooga Junior Chamber of
Commerce for his “personal exam-
ple of leadership” and his unparal-
leled community interests.

WINTER 1962

Under Mr. Lupton’s leadership
the Chamber of Commerce Indus-
trial Committee was placed on a
sound financial basis and brought
many new industries to Chatta-
nooga and saw the expansion of in-
dustries already established. As a
member of the board of trustees of
the Bright School, $450,000 was
raised with his leadership, and he
was also instrumental in raising
funds for the sanctuary of the First
Presbyterian Church.

As president of Lookout Boost-
ers, he was responsible for giving
new status to the ball club by in-
creasing attendance at the games.
The club went on to win the 1961
pennant. Through his company,
the Stone Fort Land Company, Mr.
Lupton pioneered the concept of
industrial parks.

The awards chairman stated that
recognition should come to “our
most effective and _ progressive

young leader in 1961.”

tonsburg, Kentucky, in the November
election. Barkley is married to the form-
er Miss Nancy Lewis, and they have two
daughters, Patricia, age three, and Doro-
thy Lewis, age one.

1953

BORN: THE Rev. and Mrs. SAM BYRON
Huutszy, a daughter, Ashley Alexandra
Louise, July 26, 1961. Sam is rector of St.
John’s Episcopal Church in Corsicana,
‘Texas.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ALBERT WALTER
Daus, a son, Steven Albert, May 16, 1961.
Al is employed by International Business
Machines as a sales representative and he
and his wife are living in Elizabeth, New
Jersey.

After completing an internship and resi-
dency in medicine at Cook County Hospi-
tal of Chicago, T. KyLe Creson, Jr., did
two years military service at El ‘Toro
Marine base in Santa Ana, California,
where he was released as a_ lieutenant-
commander. He is now practicing inter-
nal medicine in Memphis, ‘Tennessee. Dr.
Creson and his wife have an 18-month
old son, ‘Thomas Kyle, III.

A release from Armstrong Information
Service announces that RaLpH V. Bray,
Jr., has been named Advertising Man-
ager of the Flooring Products Section of
the Armstrong Cork’s Advertising, Pro-
motion and Public Relations Department.
Ralph joined the firm in 1955, and be-
fore this present promotion he held the
post of Advertising Manager of the In-
dustrial and Insulation Products Section
at Armstrong.

After receiving his M.A. degree in chem-
istry from the University of Maryland in
1961, R. SUTER Hupson has been employ-
ed as chemist in the physics department
of Armstrong Cork Company. ‘The Hud-
sons have two children—a daughter Linda,
age four, and a son John, age six, and
the family resides in Lancaster, Penn-
sylvania.

The promotion of CHARLES RAy STORM
from trainee to Field Claim Representa
tive has been announced by the person-
nel manager of the Charlottesville office
of State Farm Mutual Automobile Insur-
ance Company.

JAMES COLQUHOUN GALT received a Mas-
ter of Arts degree in Mechanical Engin-
eering at Princeton University in the fall
of 1961.

As an astronomer, WILLIAM KENT Forp,
JRr., is with the Department of Terrestrial
Magnetism, Carnegie Institution of Wash-
ington. Kent received his Ph.D. degree
from the University of Virginia in 1957
and since then has been living in Chevy
Chase, Maryland.

1954

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. SEDGwiIcK Moss, a
daughter, Virginia Lee, November 1, 1961.

29

 

 

Sedge, a coin collector of some fame, was
recently elected to the board of govern.
ors of the Washington, D.C., Numismatic
Society.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. A. RUSSELL BREN-
NEMAN, a son, Scott Andrew, June 11, 1961.
Russ received his M.D. from Yale in 1958
and then interned at the University of
Virginia. The following year he was an
assistant resident at the Yale-New Haven
Medical Center. At present Russ is a re-
search fellow at National Institutes of
Health and his wife, Faith, is also en-
gaged in biochemical research at NIH.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. J. ROBERT CROss, a
son, John Robert, Jr., November 10, 1961.
Bob is with the Chesapeake & Potomac
Telephone Company and is assigned as
a staff supervisor in the Electronic Data
Processing branch.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. H. Gorpvon LEc-
GETT, JR., a daughter, Jane Venable, Oc-
tober 18, 1961. The Leggetts and their
three children live in Lynchburg.

GEORGE M. Younc and his brother, KELLY,
58, work in the Marshall R. Young Dril-
ling Company in pursuit of contract oil-
well drilling and oil producing. George
and his wife, Diane, live in Brookhaven,
Mississippi, with their children. An _ in-
teresting note is that in February, 1961,
brother Kelly married a girl from Hous-
ton, Texas, whose name is also Diane.

In the past three years, since joining the
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Company in Cleveland, Ohio, J. D. BonE-
BRAKE has written in excess of one million
dollars of life insurance and is therefore
qualified for the coveted “Million Dollar
Round Table.”

As the president of the Bachelors Cotil-
lion of Birmingham, Alabama, Evans
DUNN was named the “most eligible bach-
elor of 1962” by the Spinsters Cotillion
of Birmingham.

STEPHEN H. SNow is employed in the
Equipment Sales Division of Globe Tick-
et Co. in Philadelphia. He is married to
the former Ann Morse of Swarthmore,
Pennsylvania, and they have a young
daughter, Pam, born June 2, 1960.

HAROLD J. QUINN, JR., will complete his
residency training in Ear, Nose, and
Throat at Barnes Hospital in St. Louis
in July, 1962. Thereafter he will begin
private practice in Shreveport, Louisiana.

1955

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. J. HARDIN Marion,
III, a son, David Hardin, October 1, 1961.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Harry GREENE
KENNEDY, JR., a son, Christopher Ireland,
October 16, 1961. After receiving his M.D.
degree at the Medical College of Virginia,
Harry is now interning at Mercy Hospital
in Springfield, Ohio. He will enter the
Nuclear Submarine Program in July, 1962,
as a medical officer.

30

Since February, 1961, CAPTAIN JERRY C.
MurpuHy has been stationed sixty miles
south of Bordeaux in France, where his
wife, Pat, and their two daughters have
joined him. His present assignment is
transportation officer for the depot.

WATSON A. BOwES, JR., is presently a resi-
dent in obstetrics and gynecology at the
University of Colorado Medical Center.

After his marriage to Miss Joyce Biegle1
in July, 1960, Davin A. WouTeERS complet-
ed his M.A. degree from New York Uni-
versity in International Business. Form-
erly with Borden Food Company in Cen-
tral America, Dave is now with Mobil
Petroleum Company as overseas market-
ing representative, working in the Tar
East.

JOSEPH JOHN HECKMANN, III, is president
of the Louisville Restaurant Association.

Since graduation from Harvard Business
School in June, 1960, Davin W. McCain
has been working as foreman in the
Forming Department of Corning Glass
Works in Albion, Michigan. He and
Mrs. McCain have two daughters.

1956

MARRIED: RoBert Guy CALLAWAY and
Alice Esther Hager of St. Louis, Missouri,
were married on October 28, 1961. The
couple will reside in St. Louis where Bob
is associated with the Continental Can
Company.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. CiaAy THOMAS
GARDNER, a daughter, Cynthia Dell, July
1g, 1961. Since receiving an M.D. degree
from the Medical College of Virginia,
Clay has interned at MCV and is now resi-
dent physician in the field of internal
medicine there. In 1962 he plans to begin
a fellowship in diseases of metabolism
and endocrinology at the National In-
stitutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. SAM Hay Berry, a
son, Stephen, June 30, 1961.

PATRICK D. SULLIVAN recently resigned as
Deputy Attorney General for the State
of Indiana in order to open the Indian-
apolis law firm of Minton, Mosiman, Sul-
livan and Johnson. Pat is presently a di-
rector of the Indianapolis Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce, chairman of the county
Young Republicans, and a member of
Mayor’s Flood Control Advisory Commit-
tee. He and his wife, Bonney, have three
children.

WILLIAM H. FISHBACK, JR., has been pro-
moted to assistant state editor of the
Richmond, Virginia, Times-Dispatch. Bill
took a pre-law course at Duke University
before joining the staff of the Times-
Dispatch in 1956.

JAMEs CLAY JETER is a new member of the
law firm of Jeter, Jeter & Jeter in Charles-
ton, West Virginia. Jim’s association with

this office enables the firm to claim a
new distinction in law circles: it is the
only parent-son partnership in West Vir-
ginia, for both Jim’s p.rents are lawyers
in general practice.

1957

MARRIED: Rosert E. J. Curran and
Miss Miriam Ann Nelson of Cynwyd,
Pennsylvania, were married on October
21, 1961. After receiving his law degree
from ‘Temple University, Bob was admit-
ted to the har in Delaware County, Penn-
sylvania. He is now a member of the law
firm of Kassab, Cherry and Curran in
Chester, Delaware County, Pennsylvania.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES Faust Da-
vis, JR., a daughter, Alison Leigh, Sep-
tember, 1961. Since 1960 Charles has been
employed by the Far Eastern Division of
the First National City Bank of New
York, and Jast April he was transferred
to the Singapore Branch, and their daugh-
ter was born in Singapore. At present he
is assistant manager of the branch at
Kuala Lumpur, Malaya.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN M. QUIL-
LEN, a son, Richard Lee, May 28, 1961.

CHARLES B. RICHARDSON is stationed with
VS-26 aboard the USS Randolph with
home port in Norfolk. He just graduated
from a seven-week course at the U.S.
Naval Justice School in Newport, Rhode
Island.

STEPHEN M. EHupIN of Baltimore is a
member of the law firm Ehudin, Orman &
Ehudin. Steve is also secretary of the Bal-
timore Alumni Chapter.

CHARLES C. KANNAPELL was named by
American Air Filter Company as its Out-
standing Young Salesman for 1961 and
winner of the Robert W. Nelson Memorial
Award. ‘The award is presented to a mem-
ber of the field sales organization who
has not reached the age of thirty-two and
whose activities combine initiative, prod-
uct knowledge, and sound-selling prac-
tices. Since 1958 Charlie has been in the
Washington sales office of the company
as a sales engineer. The award was pre-
sented to him at a large banquet in Louis-
ville, attended by members of the firm’s
field sales organization and Home Office
personnel.

Lewis S. MINTER, a former partner in the
Roanoke law firm of Woodrum and Greg-
ory, has recently joined the legal de-
partment of the Chesapeake & Ohio Rail-
way in Richmond.

‘TRAFFORD HILL is undergoing his intern-
ship at Cincinnati General Hospital. He
expects to enter Navy service following his
internship.

Following special studies in Tampa, Flor-
ida, WILLIAM B. TIPPETTS, JR., was as-
signed in October to the Social Security
Administration at Orlando. This change
involved a move from St. Petersburg
where Billy pursued a keen interest in

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

“moonwatching.” In a recent issue of the
Suncoast Moonwatch newsletter, Billy
wrote a remarkably complete summary of
the United States’ accomplishments in
space during the last year.

1958

MARRIED: HA C. WHITAKER and Made-
line C. Smallwood were married June 24,
1961. Classmates John Gibbs and Vernon
Holleman served as best man and _ usher
respectively. The new couple resides in
Baltimore.

MARRIED: DONALD L. DUNCAN was mar-
ried to Wilma Low Rivalto in Memphis,
‘Tennessee, on December 22, 1961. Don
received his M.D. degree from the Uni-
versity of ‘Tennessee Medical School, and
he and his wife reside in Memphis where
Don is on a one-year rotating internship
at the John Gaston Hospital.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GERALD SUSSMAN,
a daughter, Karen Lee, August 11, 1961.
Gerald is Vice-President-production for
the Firedoor Corporation of America in
New York City.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. K. WILLIAM WATER-
SON, JR., Steven Karl, January 7, 1962. Bill
will receive his M.D. from Columbia Uni-
versity’s College of Physicians and Sur-
geons this coming June.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. FRANK ALFRED Hoss,
Jr., a daughter, Carol Deanne, September
12, 1961. Frank and his family are living
in Manassas, Virginia, and he has just
been appointed Assistant Commonwealth
Attorney for the County.

JAMES WILLIAM REID is now _ associated
with the First and Merchants National
Bank of Richmond, Virginia, and Bill and
his wife have moved from Baltimore to
Richmond.

Joun H. Croker, Jr., is associated with
the First National City Bank of New York.
He and his wife, the former Mary Theresa
Tighe, have a young son, John Croker,
III.

For the past year Davin G. NoBLe has
been lieutenant aboard the USCGC Storis
(WAG-38), an auxiliary icebreaker with
home port in Kodiak, Alaska. The Storis
provides logistic support to isolated CG
loran and light stations throughout Alas-
ka, engages in search and rescue, conducts
the annual Bering Sea Patrol in enforce-
ment of Federal Laws, and is presently
engaged in breaking ice in Cook Inlet.
Dave expects transfer in March to New
York City for assignment before his re-
lease in July to inactive duty.

Following his B.A. degree from Sewanee
in June, 1960, I. Croom Beatty, IV, went
on to get his M.A. from the University
of Alabama. He is now a teacher in Christ
School (Episcopal) in Arden, North Caro-
lina. Croom married Meriwether Tanna-
hill, Hollins, ’59, who is sister to his
Washington and Lee classmate, SAm
‘TANNAHILL. The Beattys have one son.

WINTER 1962

After nearly three years with WOR Radio
and TV, New York, HArry Moses has be-
come Director of Advertising and Sales
Promotion at Filmways, Inc.—a firm which
produces ‘TV commercials, TV shows, and
feature length motion pictures. Harry has
also formed an independent company for
producing movies and the first film, a
comic short subject, is scheduled for Feb-
ruary, 1962.

1959

C. R. SPENCER is employed as a project
engineer in the Products Development
Division of Reynolds Metals Co. He and
his wife, the former Ann Douglas Scott
of Lynchburg, live in Richmond, Virginia.

DONALD W. SIGMUND has a “welcome”
sign up in Waikiki, Hawaii—the “Para-
dise of the Pacific.” A ist lieutenant in the
army, Don wrices from Schofield Barracks
with the 25th infantry division. He got
“hit” by the Kennedy extension and has
one more year to serve.

An attorney in civilian life, RoBErT E.
SHEPHERD, JR., is now a first lieutenant
in the Army. Along with his promotion,
he was changed from the Transportation
Corps to the Judge Advocate General’s
Corps and is scheduled to attend the
Judge Advocate School in Charlottesville,
Virginia.

As a end Lieutenant in the Army, ROYCE
Houcu, III, completed the officer orien-
tation course at The Air Defense School
at Fort Bliss, Texas.

THOMAS G. JOHNSON is a registered rep-
resentative with Mitchell Hutchins &
Company on Wall Street.

WILLIAM NEWKIRK MarTIN is now with
the Group and Pension department of
Aetna Life Insurance Company in New
York City.

Joun G. KoebEL, JR., is credit analyist in
the commercial loan department of the
Pittsburgh National Bank.

1960

MARRIED: January 27 was a busy day
for —THomMas C. Howarp. On this date
he was married to Miss Baril of Miami,
Florida, and also received his M.A. degree
in European history from Florida State
University. Mrs. Howard is a graduate
student at F.S.U.

MARRIED: RussELL JACOB MICKLER and
Janice Lynn Sutton of Fayetteville, North
Carolina, were married on November 25,
1961. ARCHIE QO. JENKINS, ’58, attended
Russell as best man.

MARRIED: FRANK C. BOZEMAN and Miss
Mary Callcott of Columbia, South Caro-
lina, were married on December 29, 1961.
The couple reside in Pensacola, Florida,
where Frank is connected with the law
firm of Yonge, Beggs & Lane.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. McGowin I. PAt-

RICK, a daughter, Julia Forsyth, January 4,
1962. Mac is presently serving at the Army
Training Center, Fort Bliss, Texas.

Following graduation ‘Tom ‘TOUCHTON
worked for a year with a North Carolina
insurance company. During this period
he took intensive insurance training
at a school in Hartford, Connecticut. ‘Tom
is now associated with Touchton Insur-
ance Agency in Dade City, Florida, and is
an active member of the Junior Chamber
of Commerce and Rotary International.

WILLOUGHBY NEWTON has recently been
transferred as an ensign on the US Coast
Guard Cutter Evergreen to the US Coast
Guard Institute in Groton, Connecticut,
where he is assistant to the Chief, Corres-
pondence Division.

Doing graduate work in mathematics at
the University of Iowa, RicHARD S. WOLF
is expecting to receive his M.S. degree in
Actuarial Science. After fulfilling his mili-
tary duty, Dick plans to pursue a career
as an actuary with an insurance company.

In the graduate School of Business at
Stanford University, FRANK GLASER has his
fingers crossed for graduation in June,
1962. Following his graduation, Frank ex-
pects to enter the Army under his obligat-
ed military service.

James I. GREENE is teaching English at
Kiski Prep School in Saltsburg, Pennsyl-
vania.

WALTER G. ‘THOMPSON is presently at
Columbia University in the School of In-
ternational Affairs, specializing in Latin
America Affairs. It is nice work as his
wife, Helen, is also at Columbia finishing
her undergraduate studies.

Davip K. WEAVER will receive promotion
in rank to Lt. (JG) at the end of Feb-
ruary. He is stationed at the Naval Air
Station in Norfolk.

After receiving a Master’s Degree in Busi-
ness Administration at the University of
Pittsburgh, JoHN F. MurpHy completed
the Transportation Officer Orientation
course at Fort Eustis. At present John has
a duty station with Transportation Head-
quarters in Washington, D.C.

A Fulbright scholar in 1956, AUGUSTIN
Morais. DE NARBONNE has since _ served
twenty-eight months in the French Army
in Algiers as an officer in a paratroop
regiment. At present he is married and
working in Paris, France, as a commercial
director in a factory.

RoBerT ELDER, who is chief of the Army
military personnel division’s Radio-TV
section, has joined the staff of WMAL-TV
news and public affairs department on a
part-time basis. Bob is living in Arling-
ton, Virginia.

1961

MARRIED: BERKELEY Cox, JRr., and Eliza-
beth Anne Grant of Abingdon, Virginia,

31

 

 

were married on November 11, 1961. Mrs.
Cox is a graduate of Hollins College.
Berkeley is associated with a Hartford,
Connecticut, law firm.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES C. BOWIE,
Jr., a son, Charles C. Bowie, II, October

g, 1961.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RoBert L. GILLIAM,
Ill, a daughter, Marie Kimball, Decem-
ber 23, 1961. Bob is an attorney in Lees-
burg, Virginia.

JAmMes H. ALLEN completed the eight-week
field artillery officer orientation course at
The Artillery and Missile School at Fort
Sill, Oklahoma. In this course designed
for newly-commissioned officers, Lieuten-
ant Allen was trained in communications,
artillery transport, tactics and target ac-
quisition.

Attending Washington University’s Grad-
uate School, LAURENCE KINGsBURY expects
to receive his Master’s Degree in Eng-
lish in September, 1962. He plans to
teach on the secondary school level in St.
Louis this next fall.

ELwin LAw is undergoing army training
in Fort Benning, Georgia. After four
months at Benning, Elwin expects a two-
year tour in Germany.

Rosert HOLtey, JR., completed the ten-
week officer orientation course at ‘The
Signal School, Fort Monmouth, New
Jersey. Before entering the Army, Bob
was employed by the IBM Corporation in
Roanoke, Virginia.

The first repertory theater in Virginia has
CHARLES BusH among its six organizers.
‘The group has spent most of a year plan-
ning the ambitious project and has set
the opening of the Wedgewood Playhouse
in the Williamsburg area for April, 1963.
Charles has appeared in theater produc-
tions in Roanoke and was an_ under-
study for character roles in “Thy King-
dom Come.”

Completing officer orientation at Fort
Benning, JAMES H. HAMERSLEY is now in
army intelligence school at Fort Holabird
near Baltimore.

1963

MARRIED: JosepH BURNER CLoweR, III,
was married to Sarah Marshall Irvine on
December 30, 1961, in Lexington, Vir-
ginia. At present the couple lives in Ath-
ens, Georgia, where both attend the Uni-
versity of Georgia.

FRANK ANTHONY Burcet, III, who was a
student in the Washington and _ Lee
School of Law for one year, 1960-61, af-
ter receiving his BA degree from the Uni-
versity of Miami, is a teacher of English,
Spanish, and Russian. He is now with the
Japanese Interpreters ‘Training Institute
of the Japanese Government in ‘Tokyo,
employed as a teacher in the Department
of Philology.

32

 

1900

ALFRED GRAYSON Davis, a farmer and for-
ester of Lewisburg, West Virginia, died on
June 28, 1961. For forty years Mr. Davis
was a trustee of the Davis Stuart School
in Lewisburg and was one of the found-
ers of this institution.

1903

CLEMENT A. Boaz, a former director of the
First National Bank of Ft. Worth, ‘Texas,
and president of the Guaranty Abstract &
Title Company, died on September 20,
1961. Mr. Boaz and his wife were on the
campus for the Bicentennial celebration
in 1949, and throughout his later life he
expressed a keen interest in Washington
and Lee affairs.

Dr. Cary RANDOLPH BLAIN, a_ retired
Presbyterian minister, died in Washing-
ton, D.C., on January 12, 1962. During
World War I, Dr. Blain served as a 2nd
Lieutenant in the Chaplain Corps at the
Navy Base Hospital in Hampton Roads,
Virginia. He received his B.D. degree
from the Presbyterian ‘Theological Sem-
inary in Louisville and then in 1928 he
was awarded an honorary D.D. from
Washington and Lee.

1908

The Rev. Grover C. GABRIEL died in Red
Lion, Pennsylvania, on August 10, 1961.
Mr. Gabriel had served as Superintendent
of the Central Pennsylvania Conference
of the Evangelical Church and, until
his retirement, as General Superintend-
ent of the Evangelical Home in Lewis-
burg, Pennsylvania.

EUGENE RUSSELL COVER, a retired insur-
ance agent of Staunton, Virginia, died
on November 18, 1961.

1909

LAWRENCE CARLTON CALDWELL died De-
cember 25, 1961, in Richmond, Virginia,
after a short illness. Mr. Caldwell was a
lawyer and a former teacher at Mc-
Guire’s School for Boys and John Mar-
shall High School in Richmond. Until
his retirement in 1953, he was for many
years Supervisor of Individual ‘Taxes, Vir-
ginia State Department of ‘Taxation.

EpwarbdD HOLLOWAY RATCLIFF, a_ retired
lawyer of Natchez, Mississippi, died in
June, 1961.

1910

HucH R. HAwrnorne, president of the
Pocahontas Steamship Company and gen-

eral counsel and a director of the Con.
solidated Coal Company of Pittsburgh,
died January 12, 1962, after a long illness.
A native of Washington County, Virginia,
he taught school and was a high school
principal before he began the practice of
law. He became general counsel for Poca-
hontas Fuel Company in 1918 and was its
president from 1950 to 1951 When _ it
merged with the Consolidated Coal Com-
pany.

1911

GrEorGE Boyp of Piedmont, West Virginia,
died on April 22, 1961. Mr. Boyd was in
the General Insurance Business in Pied-
mont for twenty-seven years. In addition
to his widow and a daughter, he is sur-
vived by a son, GEORGE, JR., °35, BA, who
is a member of the law firm of Dunning-
ton, Bartholow, and Miller in New York
City.

1912

THE Rev. SIDNEY THOMAS RUCK, Rector
of St. Eustace Episcopal Church in Lake
Placid, New York, for forty years, died in
November, 1961. In addition to serving his
church throughout the years faithfully
and well, he was a tireless worker for the
entire village of Lake Placid and was
well-known for his prowess as a hunter
and a fisherman and for his skill as a
gardener. His community activities in-
cluded service on the Board of Education,
the chaplainship of the Fire Department,
and participation in various phases of
fraternal lodge work.

1913

HeNrRY WISE KeEtty, Sr., died in March,
1961. Mr. Kelly was a trial attorney for
Washington Railway & Electric Company
and associate assistant secretary for the
Potomac Electric Power Company. He was
also an attorney in the firm of Bowen
and Kelly in Washington, D.C.

1917

Burr Lincotn Dickinson died in Rad-
ford, Virginia, on October 17, 1961. Mr.
Dickinson was a lawyer, and during 1918-
19 was employed in the Office of Auditor
for War Department in Paris, France. At
one time he served as mayor of Marion,
Virginia, and was judge of the Juvenile
and Domestic Relations Court of Smyth
County, Virginia.

1918

THOMAS HERRING PRATT of Winston-Sal-
em, North Carolina, died on December
18, 1961. He had been ill for several
months.

1922

RoBeRT BROWN HiLTon died January 19,
1962, in a fire that swept his Manhattan
apartment. Alumni who attended the
University from 1917-1924 will remember
“Brownie” who, though completely blind,
managed in a most highly creditable man-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

ner to obtain both an A.B. in 1922 and an
LL.B. in 1924. The recipient of several
campus awards, Brownie was estimated by
his friends to have mastered the recogni-
tion of at least ninety per cent of the
student body merely by the sound of their
voices. A large circle of the Washington
and Lee family are profoundly grieved
over his death.

1923

RICHARD PORTER BOWDON died on Novem-
ber 16, 1961, in Houston, Texas. Mr. Bow-
don had been engaged in the realty busi-
ness in Forest Park, Georgia, before his
death.

1924

THOMAS FRANCIS JACKSON of Memphis,
Tennessee, died on September 4, 1961. Mr.
Jackson spent most of his life in the cot-
ton merchandising business. He was as-
sociated with the firm of Frank Jackson
& Company, dealing in cotton shipping.
Mr. Jackson is survived by two _ sons,
FARRIS JACKSON, °54 and ‘THOMAS FRANCIS
Jackson, III, ’62.

Harry LysLte SHUEY, prominent resident
of Morganton, North Carolina, for over
thirty-three years, died of a heart attack
on January 28, 1962. Mr. Shuey came to
Morganton in 1928 as sales manager of
Morganton Furniture Company and later
became president of the company, and he
was a well-known figure in the furniture
industry. His leadership in the establish-
ment of organized recreation in Morgan-
ton was the major basis for his being
chosen ““Morganton’s Man of the Year
for 1949.” At that time he was saluted
as an “industrialist, businessman, Civic
leader, and sportsman.” He served as di-
rector of the Southern Manufacturers
Association and of the Furniture Clubs
of America, and at one time was president
of the Morganton Aggies baseball club.
Mr. Shuey was one of the first presidents
of the Generals Club of Washington and
Lee and was a member of the Alumni
Board for a term ending in 1956.

WiLuiAM ASA PEAvy, one of the South’s
best known lumbermen and one _ of
Shreveport’s most active civic leaders, died
on November 12, 1961, in Shreveport,
Louisiana. Mr. Peavy was the organizer
and owner of the Peavy Lumber Com-
pany. His civic leadership in Shreveport
was widely known and contributed to the
city’s recognition nationally for Negro
slum clearance. He was co-chairman of
the “Shreveport Survey,” a study of con-
ditions for Negroes with possible improve-
ments which won for his city the Look
Magazine Award as one of the ‘“Ten Out-
standing Cities of the Nation.” Mr. Peavy
had also been active throughout his busi-
ness career in YMCA, Community Chest,
Red Cross, and other social agencies.

1925

Dr. Vircit ORION CHOATE died on Octob-
er 22, 1961. Since 1928 Dr. Choate had

WINTER 1962

practiced medicine and surgery in Galax,
Virginia, where he made his home.

1926

‘THE REV. WILLIAM CHARLES BAXTER, rect-
or of St. Thomas’ Episcopal Church, Snell
Isle, Florida, died on January 25, 1962.

1927

JoHN OscAR STRICKLER died unexpectedly
on November 22, 1961, less than four
months after leaving his post as U.S.
Attorney for Western Virginia, which po-
sition he had held for eight years. Mr.
Strickler had re-entered private practice
with his son J. GLENWOOD STRICKLER, ‘50.
He gave valuable service to the Republi-
can party, having served as chairman of
both city and district committees. A
Roanoke editorial states that Mr. Strick-
ler typified “...the high ideals of his
profession and in his character and _ per-
sonality exhibited qualities which gained
him high esteem and affection,” and that
he carried out the duties of his office
“...Wwith ability and conscientious and
faithful regard for the public interest.”
At the time of his death, Mr. Strickler
was serving as class agent for his Law
Class of 1927.

1932

JAMES WILLIAM SMITHER, JR., of New Or-
leans, Louisiana, died on November 22,
1961. Mr. Smither was General Agent of
the Union Central Life Insurance Com-
pany and Treasurer and Member of the
Board of Gulf Frozen Shrimp Company,
Inc. He was also a Director of the Ameri-
can Society of Chartered Life Underwrit-
ers.

1933

ALLEN HARRIS WOFFORD died of a heart
attack at his home in Johnson City, Ten-
nessee, on February 1, 1962. The night be-
fore his death he had received an award
from the Cherokee Council of Boy Scouts.
Except for three and a half years of mili-
tary service, Allen had been with Wofford
Brothers, Incorporated, a general insur-
ance firm in Johnson City, since 1933.

Allen was an active and a loyal alumnus
and an outstanding worker as a regional
agent. He was a familiar figure at alum-
ni reunions, and both Allen and Mrs.
Wofford attended the inaugural cere-
monies for President Cole.

‘TROOPER ARMSTRONG SHAW died Novem-
ber 22, 1961, after a long illness. He was
a senior captain with Braniff Airways,
having been a pilot with them for twen-
ty-two years. A lieutenant-commander in
the Navy during World War II, he served
four years both as pilot and executive
oficer aboard the USS Tuscaloosa.

Dr. MARION EDWARD PorTER, professor of
Modern Languagaes at Indiana Univer-
sity, died in Bloomington, Indiana, on
August 13, 1961. Dr. Porter has a very dis-
tinguished record of military service in
the years 1941-46 when he served in Mili-

tary Intelligence in the field of counter
espionage and obtained the Bronze Star
Medal, the Purple Heart, and a Com-
mendation Award for duty in North Af-
rica, Sicily, Italy, France, and Germany.
He was the author of several articles
published in Modern Language journals.

1937

JONATHAN RUSSELL NICHOLSON, JR., of
Latrobe, Pennsylvania, died on October
2, 1961.

1940

RoBerT Byrd Espy of Panama City, Flor-
ida, died on September 11, 1961. After
graduating from Washington and Lee, he
taught at Episcopal High School in Alex-
andria, Virginia. During World War II
he saw service in the Navy, and then in
1946 he taught for a short while at Wash-

ington and Lee.
1946

WILLIAM bDUBoIs BIEN, business editor of
the Ft. Lauderdale News and former busi-
ness editor of the Richmond News-Leader,
died November 17, 1961, in a Coral Ga-
bles, Florida, hospital. According to the
Associated Press report, he had been hos-
pitalized for a month as a heart patient.
Recently he had also operated a public
relations firm in Ft. Lauderdale. In 1950
and 1955 Bill won first-place awards from
the Virginia Press Association for feature
news articles. In 1958 the National Head-
liner’s Club gave him its award for “the
most consistently outstanding daily busi-
ness and financial column writing in the
United States.”” He had feature articles
published in the Reader’s Digest, Pageant,
Town Journal, Ford Times, and Com-
monwealth, and he also had a daily radio
program. When Bill was a student he was
managing editor for the Ring-tum Phi,
assistant editor of the Calyx, and re-
ceived achievement awards and _scholas-
tic citations from Sigma Delta Chi.

1953

ROBERT CLYDE SMITH, judge of the muni-
cipal court of Buena Vista for the last
six years, died in a Charlottesville hospi-
tal on December 5, 1961, after a long
illness. While a student Bob was a tackle
on the Washington and Lee 1950 South-
ern Conference championship team and
was a member of Phi Alpha Delta legal
fraternity and Phi Gamma Delta fraterni-
ty. As an alumnus he was chairman of
the Washington and Lee Law School As-
sociation membership committee and was
a member of both the Virginia and the
American Bar Associations. Bob was also
a past-president of the Rockbridge Coun-
ty-Buena Vista Bar Association.

1958

WILLIAM MICHAEL AKERS, a Navy pilot,
died in a plane accident on April 11,
1961.

33

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER NEWS

ST. LOUIS

Thanksgiving morning was a
cold and chilly one as the Wash-
ington and Lee Generals took on
Washington University in St.
Louis. The weather did not damp-
en the spirits of a large group of
alumni, family, and friends who
witnessed this impressive victory.
During the half-time festivities the
alumni joined on the north end of
the field where hot coffee was pro-
vided by Bob Callaway, ‘56.
Cheered on by this enthusiastic
crowd, the Generals came from be-
hind in the second half to beat
Washington University and to fin-
ish the season undefeated.

On November 30, the chapter
was pleased to welcome Dean
Frank Gilliam at a meeting at the
Standard Oil Building in Clayton.
A very large group, together with
quite a number of prospective stu-
dents and their parents, was on
hand to hear about Washington
and Lee from the “master” Dean
of Admissions—Mr. Gilliam. A col-
or film of the college accompanied
his talk.

In the finest holiday spirit, the
chapter entertained at an Alumni-
student cocktail party on December
26th. The affair, held at the Cap-
tains’ Quarters in Clayton, was
well attended and enabled the pres-
ent students to meet some of the
prospective applicants for 1962.
The chapter looks forward eagerly
to the New Year.

DELAWARE

The Alumni Chapter of Dela-
ware held its annual meeting on
February goth at the University
Club in Wilmington. In spite of a
heavy snowfall a large number of
alumni attended the stag affair.

Following the social hour, A. L.
Roberson, ’30, presided at the busi-
ness meeting where the following
officers were elected: John T. Mar-
tin, ’26, president; Robert A. Ful-

34

wiler, Jr., ’25, vice-president; Rus-
sell F. Applegate, ‘50, secretary;
Roy J. Fahl, Jr., ‘46, treasurer; and
Jackson Rosse Collins, ‘17, member
at large.

APPALACHIAN

Alumni and parents of the Ap-
palachian Chapter extended a
warm welcome to Executive Sec-
retary Bill Washburn at its fall
meeting in Bristol on November
16th. Gathering at the new and ele-
gant Bristol Country Club for a
reception-banquet the group re-
ceived a report on the University.

Following the report, chapter
president Lloyd Myers, *31, called
upon George Summerson, chair-
man of the nominating committee,
for his report. ‘The following slate
of officers for the next year was
unanimously elected: President,
Judge M. M. Long, Jr., °43; Secre-
tary-Treasurer, Kenneth P. Ash-
bury, ’50; Vice-Presidents, Hiram
Wall, ’38, Robert P. Landon, Jr.,
'o7, J. W. Harmon, Jr. 44, H. Em-
ory Widener, Jr., 53, Lewis P. Col-
lins, III, 51, and Stephen M. Quil-
len, 57.

The gavel was turned over to
Judge Long who, before adjourn-
ing the meeting, took note of the
suggestion that plans be formulated
for the Appalachian Chapter to
entertain all alumni who will at-
tend the Washington and Lee-
Emory and Henry football game
next year at Emory, Virginia.

BALTIMORE

President Fred C. Cole was a
guest speaker at the Baltimore
meeting on December ist at the
Penn Hotel in ‘Towson, Maryland.
An outstanding number of enthu-
siastic alumni and wives joined in
a formal dinner-dance.

John Mayhew, ’26, the outgo-
ing president, presided at the ban-
quet where reports from the vari-
ous committees were heard. Among
the highlights of the evening was
a presentation by Bill Pacy, ‘50, of

a scroll to Frank Brooks, ’46, in
recognition of his outstanding lead-
ership and inspiration. ‘The chapter
also awarded to Frank a Washing-
ton and Lee alumni chair.

Jim McDonald, ’50, reporting
for the nominating committee,
named the following slate of offi-
cers who were unanimously elect-
ed: President, Lawrence W. Gallo-
way, °43; Vice-President, Richard
C .Whiteford, ’57; Secretary, Steph-
en M. Ehudin, ’57; and ‘Treasurer,
William N. Clements, ’50.

At the conclusion of President
Cole’s informative and inspiration-
al address, the gavel was turned
over to Larry Galloway who ex-
pressed sincere appreciation to
President Mayhew for his year of
service.

Following the banquet, an or-
chestra furnished music for danc-
ing. Frequent intermissions in the
dancing gave the alumni ample op-
portunity to join in singing the
“Washington and Lee Swing” and
“College Friendships.”

~ CHATTANOOGA

Alumni of the Chattanooga
Chapter entertained November
ioth at a reception and dinner at
the Read House Hotel honoring
President Fred C. Cole. Among the
enthusiastic group were alumni C.
E. Ballenger and Gene Little with
their wives from Spartanburg,
South Carolina. The occasion pre-
ceded the Washington and Lee-
Sewanee football game on Satur-
day, November 11th.

Chapter President Gerry Steph-
ens, ’50, presided at the meeting
and introduced President Cole as
the principal speaker. Entertain-
ment during the dinner was furn-
ished by a trio of musicians, ‘The
Dismembered Tennesseans, led by
alumnus Frank McDonald, ’5.

The guests included Charles
Hawkins, guidance adviser of Bay-
lor School and Creed Bates of
City High School. Plans were dis-
cussed for a meeting with the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

New Officers of the Dela-
ware Chapter are, l. to r.,
j- ROSE. COLUNS, 17;
member at large; Roy J.
FAHL, '46, treasurer; JOHN
‘T. MARTIN, ’26, president;
ROBERT A. FULWILER, ’25,
vice-president; and Rus-
SELL. ¥. APPLEGATE, “52
Secretary.

 

 

 

Happy St. Louis football fans include, |. to r. MAc Hotrcamp, Hap — The Baltimore Chapter honored FRANK C. BRooks, ‘46, center, with

Hae, Jim Martin, Howre Bratcues, and, seated, Mr. and Mrs. a scroll citing his outstanding service to the chapter. At left is
HucH McNew. They saw the Generals come from behind to win C. WILLIAM Pacy, II, alumni Board member; at right is JAMES R.
over Washington. McDONALD, ’50, former chapter president.

New officers of the Appalachian Chapter are, l. to r., KENNETH P. Asbury, '38, secretary-treasurer; R. P. LONDON, JR., '27, vice-president
for Johnson City; Jupce M. M. Lonc, Jr., 43, president, and STEPHEN M. QUILLEN, ’57, vice-president for Lebanon.

WINTER 1962 35

 

PRESIDENT COLE, center, poses with Chattanooga alumni and their wives. At left are MR.

and Mrs. A. C. “Gus” BRYAN, ’23, and at right are Chapter President GERRY U. STEPHENS,

50. and his wife.

 

At Memphis with the Mid-South Chapter, President CoLK is greeted by Chapter Presi-
dent J. HUNTER LANE, JR., °51, JAMES STEWART Buxton, °36, University Trustee, and Mrs.
LANE.

Washington and Lee coaching staff
later in the year.

ATLANTA

Alumni and parents of the At-
lanta Chapter gathered at the Pied-
mont Driving Club November 13th
for a reception-dinner in honor of
University President Fred C. Cole.
Chapter President, Dr. Perrin
Nicolson, '44, noting that this was
President Cole’s first visit to At-
lanta since his coming to Washing-

36

ton and Lee, expressed the appre-
clation of the entire chapter.

In his report on the University,
President Cole emphasized the
unique and important influence
that Washington and Lee can
make not only on the campus stu-
dent but on the overall prestige
of liberal arts undergraduate edu-
cation.

The chapter acknowledged and
was honored to have alumnus Joe
Birnie, ’27, University Trustee, at

the meeting. Among the guests
were Dr. Presley, headmaster at
Westminster School, and Dr. Mc-
Dowell, headmaster of the new
Lovette School, both of Atlanta.

MID-SOUTH

Making his first visit since be-
coming University President, Dr.
Fred Cole joined the alumni for
dinner at the Mid-Town Holiday
Inn in Memphis on November
14th.

The large attendance, among
whom were several parents of stu-
dents, eagerly received his report
on the University. Particular note
was made by Dr. Cole of the Mem-
phis representation on the Gen-
erals’ football squad.

Chapter President J. Hunter
Lane, Jr., 51, presided at the meet-
ing. J. Stewart Buxton, ’36, a mem-
ber of the University Board of
‘Trustees, introduced Dr. Cole and
extended a warm welcome to Mem-
phis on behalf of the entire chap-
ter. Accompanying President Cole
on his visit was Bill Washburn,
Executive Secretary of the Alumni
Association.

NORTH TEXAS

In the usual excellent Texas
fashion, alumni in the Dallas-Fort
Worth area turned out in large
numbers to welcome President Fred
Cole and alumni secretary, Bill
Washburn, on November 15th at
a banquet at the Dallas Country
Club. Alumni and their wives from
the surrounding area, such as Tyler
and Denison, made the occasion a
highlight of the chapter’s annual
program.

Jason B. Sowell, Jr., °54, chapter
president, made the arrangements
and conducted the meeting. James
H. Clark, ’31, made the introduc-
tion of Dr. Cole whose address was
a report of recent developments on
campus.

Beginning his speech, President
Cole, a native of Franklin, Texas,
noted that his visit was like “‘com-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

CHRISTOPHER S. Moore, ’50, left, and Chapter President and Mrs. PAUL E. SANDERS, ’43, at-
tended the dinner meeting of the New York Chapter.

ing home.” The large group ex-
tended a very warm welcome and
adjourned with the singing of “Col-
lege Friendships.”

PENINSULA

The Peninsula Chapter enter-
tained with a banquet at the James
River Country Club on February
agrd. A cocktail party preceded the
dinner at which Dr. Ollinger Cren-
shaw was the guest speaker. Dr.
Crenshaw, the newly appointed
head of the history department at
Washington and Lee, reviewed the
development of the University

 

from pre-Civil War times to today.

After the meeting a number of
enthusiastic alumni and their wives
viewed some recent color slides of
the campus, including the new
buildings, which were shown by
Bill Washburn, executive secretary.

NEW YORK

The Columbia University Club
was the site of a February gth din-
ner-dance and business meeting of
the New York Alumni Chapter. In
spite of a heavy snow storm, an
eager group of alumni joined for
the social affair at which Earl S.

History Professor OLLINGER CRENSHAW, ’25, was the speaker at the Peninsula Chapter’s
recent meeting. Shown here |. to r., are Chapter President JouN P. BowEN, ’51, alumni
secretary BILL WASHBURN, 40, DR. CRENSHAW, and Davip W. WILKINSON, JR., '38.

WINTER 1962

Mattingly, Treasurer of Washing-
ton and Lee, was the guest speaker.
Bill Washburn, Executive Secre-
tary, also was present.

Stuard Wurzburger, ’28, presid-
ed and heard reports from the fol-
lowing: R. A. Brunn, ’42, chair-
man of the golf committee; Dick
Warren, ’57, chairman of the stu-
dent recruiting committee; and
Emmett Poindexter, ’20, treasurer.
Poindexter also reported on the
chapter’s scholarship fund.

Nominations for officers were en-
tered by the nominating commit-
tee, and the following men were
unanimously elected: President
Paul Sanders, ’43; and Vice-presi-
dents for the chapter divisions—
New York City, Matthew A. Grif-
fith, ’40; Upstate New York, W. L.
Webster, ‘12; New Jersey, R. A.
Brunn, ’42; Connecticut, H. Glenn
Chaffer, ’49; Long Island, Gossett
McRae, ’27; and Westchester Coun-
ty, James D. Maver, ’52. Emmett
Poindexter was re-elected Secretary
and ‘Treasurer.

A dance followed the business
meeting. “The orchestra received
enthusiastic response to its play-
ing of the “Washington and Lee
Swing” and “College Friendships”
at intervals throughout the eve-
ning.

RICHMOND

The Rotunda Club in the Jef-
ferson Hotel was the scene of the
Richmond chapter’s first formal
dinner-dance on February 1oth.
The occasion opened with a cock-
tail party which was followed by
dinner and dancing. Such a large
number of alumni and their ladies
attended that the affair was deemed
highly successful, and it was unani-
mously agreed that it should be an
annual event.

The arrangements were handled
by President Reno Harp and Sec-
retary CG. W. “Buck’’. Pinnell, fr.
Bill Washburn, the executive sec-
retary from Lexington, was pres-
ent, as well as a number of Rich-
mond guests.

af

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

with crest in five colors

 

 

This chair is made from northern birch and rock maple—hand-rubbed
in black with gold trim (arms finished in cherry). A perfect gift for
Christmas, birthday, anniversary or wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to

the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Box 897, Lexington, Virginia

Price: $29.00 f.o.b. Gardner, Massachusetts

 

 

 

