»*

~~?

SPRING, 1966

Reunions Open

Alumni House

 

Class of 1916 3

 

 

 

fmong the anniversary reunion classes honored this vear was the class of 1916 and among tls

members returning for the reunion activities were these Washington and Lee men. Seated, l-

are L. B. BacLey, C. H. MILLER, M. C. Horner, E. S. MARSHALL, A. L. BENNETT, HUNTER

SHUMATE, and W. B. SULLIVAN. Standing, I-r, are L. J. Desua, R. N. Larrore, J. W. May, G. D

Suore. E. B. Suuttz. R. B. McDouctie, H. P. Macruper, J. B. Moore, and R. kK. Kiser. For othe

reunion photographs and news of the first alumni CVENTS lo he held d07 thre Meu {/aomni House ‘
|

~

please furn to Page --

i

¥

THE

ASHINGTON

 

AND Lee ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Editor

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

Managing Editor

FRANK A. PARSONS, 1954

Editorial Associate

\irs. ROBERT STEWARI

THE WASHINGLTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President

FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN, ‘24

Vice-President

Robert A. FULWILER, JR., “25

Secretary

WiLLiAM C. WASHBURN, ‘4o

Treasurer

PHomaAs C. Frost, JR., "50

LHE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

WiLLiIAM C. BAKER, ’38
FREDERICK BARTENSTEIN, JR., ‘41
GEORGE CRADDOCK, M.D., ‘go
JACK L. Crist, JR., “45

H. LYNDALL DICKINSON, *39
WARREN H. EpWarps, *39
[HOMAS C. Frost, JR., ‘50
ROBERT A. FULWILER, JR., '25
JOHN M. Jones, III, °7

lb HOMAS W. Moses, “39
JAMes W. Priest, M.D., °48
FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN, ‘24

EDITORIAL BOARD

PAXTON Davis

FRANK J. GILLIAM, 1917
FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN, 1924
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940
JAMES W. WuHtreHEeap

 

Published quarterly by Alumni Incor-
porated, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the
Post Office at Lexington, Virginia, Sep-
tember 15, 1924. Printed at the Journalism
Laboratory Press of Washington and Lee
University under the supervision of C.
Harold Lauck.

Volume XLI
Number 2

June, 1966

Memories of the campus in Springlime are

special for each alumnus, but one that all

share is the beauty of the dogwood in full
blossom along the campus walks.

 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Class Reunions Open New Alumni House — . . ; 9
President Nuckols Reports on Alumni Self-Study 6
Alumni Board Occupies New Board Room _ . ; 8
New Members of the Alumni Board . : . LO
Reports on the Alumni and House Funds ©. 11
CONTACT: A Student Symposium : ' 12
Alumni Sons Honored by Phi Beta Kappa...
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Is “Tucker Lecturer . 16
Three Alumni ‘Tapped by ODK 17
The Southern Collegian Loses Its Endorsement ©. is
A Special Comment on the Special Supplement 20
World War I Hero Honored by SPE Fraternity. .  . 21
FAGrinert (>, Teanemereneiens as. Reet 0 fe ARE Ve ae
SOON TENOR iets eat B96). +. GAMA ba. OH rel ak! A
ay ARISE Se erceer ee ce cise eke. ease mee ae
SM ANGI hi ceils ik tenes eis fee a Caalaned Ge elec eR

 

 

The doors of the new Alumni House were open to welcome alumni who returned for the 1966 anniversary class reunions.

ew House Open...

N FRIDAY, MAY 13TH, the new
() Alumni House opened its
doors to the members of six anni-
versary class reunions, and thus be-
gan what is expected to be many
vears of useful service to Washing-
ton and Lee alumni and the Uni-
versity.

lhere was none of the bad luck
usually associated with a_ Friday
the 19th. Rain threatened most ol
the day, but it held off, and the
hundreds of visitors to the new
house were able to spill out onto
the flagstone terraces which sur-
round the house on three sides.

There was landscaping still to
be done, the exterior brick revealed
the pointing up of the masons and

would need the customary coat ol

ho

red paint, and the alumni offices on
the second floor were vacant as yet.
But the downstairs parlors were
ready, tastefully decorated and
furnished, and the more than 300
alumni and faculty guests who at-
tended the opening reception were
pleased with the appearance.

It was a fine kick-off for one of
the busiest alumni weekends ever
on the Washington and Lee cam-
pus.

A fifteenth anniversary class was
added to the reunion roster for the
first time, and this helped swell the
total of individual reunion class
members to 152 and the total of
alumni and wives to 264. This was
the largest attendance ever for the
class reunion weekends which _ be-

gan as a regular part of the asso-
clation’s program in 1955.

Among the reunion classes was
the largest individual class attend-
ance recorded so far. ‘The class of
1941 reunion included _ fifty-five
With
Washington and Lee alumni dis-

5

alumni and forty wives.
persed as they are across the en-
tire nation, reunion planners were
delighted with this kind of re-
sponse.

There were more than reunion
class members on campus for the
weekend, however. As a result of an
amendment to the association's by-
laws, enacted at the meeting of the
Alumni Board of Directors on Oc-
tober 15, 1965, the date for the an-

nual business meeting of the asso-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

One of the largest reunion classes for 1966 was this happy group of alumni from the Class of 1O4T.

... for Reunion Classes

ciation was changed from its cus-
tomary time at Commencement—
when it was seldom well-attended—
to some other more flexible date
that could coincide with a sizeable
gathering of alumni. The annual
meeting was scheduled for May
i4th, and this drew some alumni
to the campus who were not a part
of the reunions.

lhe Alumni Board of Directors
held its spring meeting prior to
the general meeting, and coinci-
dental with all this, the University’s
Board of Trustees was in regular
session elsewhere on the campus.

lhe Alumni Board met for the
lirst time in the new board room on
floor of the Alumni
House. Attendance at the board

the second

SPRING 1966

meeting was also high, with only
two members of the twelve-man
body absent.

The reception in the Alumni
House, where Association President
Ek. Marshall Nuckols, ’33, acted as
official host, was the start of a busy
program for the reunion classes.

The Troubadours staged a spe-
cial showing of The Three Cuck-
olds tor alumni on Friday evening,
and after the play alumni returned
to the Alumni House for refresh-
ments.

On Saturday, President and Mrs.
Cole were hosts to alumni for coffee
in the President’s Home, prior to
the annual meeting at Lee Chapel.
All alumni and guests and many

members of the faculty joined for
luncheon in Evans Hall where they
heard a special report to alumni
by President Cole. Class agents for
reunion classes were special guests,
and sat together for recognition by
Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn.

In his remarks to the nearly 400
luncheon Cole
praised alumni for their devotion

guests, President
and concern for the progress of
their Alma Mater, but he cited the
limiting factor of alumni commun-
ications brought by the wide dis-
persion of former students across
the country.

“Your willingness to work and
share in the progress of the Univer-
sity is directly related to the de-
under-

gree that you know and

3

ant

a or) 2S Sp

 

Mir. and Mrs. E. MARSHALL Nuckots, “33, welcome Mr. Upper above, Pror. Epwarp TurRNER, ‘50, with back to camera, greets
and Mrs. Meyer Lu GoopMaAn, ‘26, lo the opening of the CHARLES Bowler, JR., ‘61; “THOMAS A, Courtenay, III, '51; and Mr. and
Ilumnit House. NUCKOLS, as president and a director of Mrs. MARK B. Davis, '56. Lower above, NELSON LAKr, '26, right, with Mr.
the association, was a leader in the planning of the new and Mrs. Grorce HILy, ’26. Below, I. L. TwyMan, ‘18, left, and WM. B.
facility. SULLIVAN and HUNTER SHUMATE, Doth ‘16. P.S.—it didn’t rain.

 

Fe
stand the purposes and goals of for a special three-day program in Saturday evening class banquets
your University today,” he said. November when the Board will were held for the classes of 1916,

President Cole reviewed ways in take part in a special series of meet- 1926, 1941, and 1951, and a joint
which the University hopes to im- ings with administrators, faculty banquet was held for the classes
prove its communications with members, and student leaders. of 1956 and 1961.
alumni, including an improved “I hope all this suggests to you Robert B. McDougle presided
Alumni Magazine, a better system how important we consider our over the 50th anniversary banquet,
of chapter visitations by represen- alumni relations,” he said. where President Cole presented
tatives of the faculty and adminis- Afternoon activities included a each alumnus with a souvenir pic-
tration, and a more effective pro- golf tournament, where everyone ture of the campus. Special sou-
eramming of reunion and home- was winner according to rules laid venir booklets containing members’
coming events. down by tournament director biographical sketches prepared by

President Cole praised the work Coach Lee McLaughlin. Some the alumni office were also distrib-
of the Alumni Board of Directors alumni played tennis, and some uted, and class members wore spe-
1965-66, and he announced plans took a bus tour to Natural Bridge. cial armbands for identification

{ PHI ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

during the weekend.

\lmand R. Coleman was toast-
master at the 4goth anniversary
banquet, and Alvin T. Fleishman
presided over the big 25th anniver-
sary aflair where Dean Frank J.
Gilliam was a special guest.

the 15th anniversary banquet
was hosted by Sam Hollis. Part of
the program here was a lively dis-
cussion on the merits of convention-
al dress, with Dean of Students
Kdward C. Atwood participating.

the ioth and fifth anniver-
sary classes joined for their ban-

SPRING 1966

More reunion scenes: above, ALUMNI SECRETARY WILLIAM WASHBURN. ‘40,
right, with Mr. and Mrs. JAMES JETER, '56; upper left, l-r, KEN VAN DEWATER,
HERB VAN Oast, and Mr. and Mrs. Sam Hupen, all ’41; left, JererR WILKINS,
“41, and left, CHARLES TOLLEY, ’39; below left, HARRISON MAGRUDER, left, and
Mr. and Mrs. A. L. BeNNetr, both '16; and below right, WILLIAM J. MoLeron,

 

‘41, right, with Pror. ALLEN Mocer.

- aiinee aanned

gs wf

a

quet with John K. Jennings of
the 1956 class presiding.

After the banquets, many alum-
ni returned to the Alumni House
where refreshments and musical en-
tertainment helped extend the re-
union far into the night. Even so,
some 100 alumni and wives were
on hand for Sunday morning break-
fast in Evans Hall.

The entire reunion weekend
was planned by the faculty alum-
ni committee, composed of ten
alumni members of the faculty and
staff at Washington and Lee, under

—

”

the chairmanship of Dr. Edward F.
Turner, ‘50, professor of physics.

In the week following the re-
unions the Alumni Office made its
move into the new quarters on the
second floor of the Alumni House,
and now the new facility is an es-
tablished center of alumni interest
and activity on the Washington
and Lee campus.

Every alumnus will find a warm
welcome waiting for him there,
whether he is part of a class re-
union or just a casual vacation vis-
itor.

The Annual Meeting
President Nuckols Tell of a Busy Year

HE LARGEST ATTENDANCE In re-
fy ae vears marked the success ol
the annual meeting of the Alumni
Association in Lee Chapel on May
14. An amendment to the By-Laws,
made earlier in the year, provides
flexibility for the Directors to set
the date for the meeting other than
at commencement. The decision to
conduct the annual meeting so as
to coincide with the Anniversary
Class Reunions was a happy choice.
By so doing there was not only a
larger attendance of alumni but
also a very much wider range ol
class and geographic representa-
tion.

There were ten members pres-
ent from the twelve-member Board
of Directors, and after introducing
the officers and the directors, Presi-
dent E. Marshall Nuckols compli-

6

 

By WiLtiAM C. WASHBURN
Executive Secretary

mented the Board, stating “this ts
indicative of the exceptionally fine
spirit and cooperation which your
directors have shown throughout
the year.” A special word of thanks
was made to James Clark and Sher-
wood Wise who with Nuckols were
retiring from the Board of Directors
at the end of their terms this year.
Robert A.
Jr., °25, reporting for the interim

‘Treasurer Fulwiler,
ten-month period ending April go,
1966, said the financial structure
was sound and that an official audit
would appear in the Alumni Mag-
azine following the close of the fis-
cal year on June goth.

In his president's report, Nuckols
cited an exceptionally active and

Oulgoing President EK.
MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR.,
‘33, who has contributed
unusually energetic and
forward-looking leader-
ship to the assoc iation in
1965-66, introduces his
SUCCESSOY fo 1900-067,

page.
NUCKOLS is vice president
of Campbell Soup Com-
pany of Camden, N. J.

shown on facing

of Alumni Hears

fruitful year, including the = ac-

complishment of the Alumni
House. He paid highest tribute to
H. Graham Morison, ’30, national
chairman, and his committee of
area vice chairmen and expressed
the Association’s appreciation to
the University Trustees and admin-
istration for their thoughtful and
generous cooperation. Adding that
some chapters had not fully com-
pleted their fund raising campaign
for the house, he urged each alum-
nus to return to his home area and
to assist in the chapter's work.
he major project of the Alum-
ni Board this year was a study ol
ways and means by which the
Alumni Association could become
a stronger and more meaningtul
organization. Although the annual
alumni fund has almost tripled in

tHE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The new president of Washington and Lee
PLOWMAN, ‘24,
acknowledges the applause of fellow alumni

Alumni, Inc., Francis W.

as he is introduced to the annual meeting
of the association in Lee Chapel. PLOWMAN is
vice president of the Scott Pape) Company

of Philadelphia.

the past decade and is on its way to
setting a new record this year, “the
Directors,” Mr. Nuckols
stated, “have a strong belief that

\lumni

Washington and Lee should do
even better and that more can be
done to strengthen alumni interest
and loyalty.”

lo this end a thorough self-
study program was initiated and a
survey conducted of the alumni or-
ganizations at twelve other univer-
sities, among them Amherst, Bow-
doin, Dartmouth, Davidson, Prince-
ton, Williams, and Yale. The sur-
vey showed, among other things,
that most of these school raised
substantially more in their alumni
funds than does Washington and
Lee.

“Admittedly, we picked the lead-
ers,” President Nuckols said, “but
if you are trying to improve your
OWN Operation you want to compare
yourself with the leaders, not sec-
ond best.”

He pointed out that these other
schools, even with adjustments for
size Of alumni membership, have
arger staffs in their organization

>PRING Lgd6

and each has at least one person
primarily devoted to annual alumni
giving. Accordingly, Nuckols_ said,
the Alumni Board of Directors had
voted that the alumni office staf
be enlarged by one experienced as-
sistant who would devote his en-
tire time to the alumni fund cam-
paign and fund raising activities.
Nuckols said the Board is continu-
ing to study the survey and _ will
make other firm recommendations
in the next year.

Nuckols
alumni of the countless other ac-

President reminded
tivities which the Association does
In its year’s work. “Though per-
haps routine in nature,” he stated,
“they are nevertheless most signifi-
cant parts of the work of your asso-
ciation. The keeping of records; the
alumni chapter relations and activ-
ities; student relations; the Alumni
Magazine; Homecoming and Re-
unions—all of these and many more
make the work of your alumni of-
fice most demanding. It’s no won-
der that our studies have indicated
our ofhce is understaffed” he added.

Director James Priest, '43, in the

 

absence of chairman Sam Ames, ‘42,
of Norfolk, made the report of the
nominating committee. Those elect-
ed to the Board of Directors for a
term olf four years are: Fred Barten-
stein, Jr., “41, John M. Jones, II,
‘37, and Judge Warren H. Edwards,
39. Thomas W. Joynes, Jr., 52, was
named as alumni representative to
the University Committee on In-
tercollegiate Athletics.

It was announced that the new
othcers for the Association for the
coming year will be President
Francis W. Plowman, ’24; Vice-pres-
ident Robert A. Fulwiler, Jr., ’25;
Treasurer Thomas C. Frost, Jr., 50;
and Executive Secretary William C.
Washburn, ‘40.

Plowman

Before adjournment

presented a plaque to Nuckols,
commenting he had never seen “a
man do as much in one year in stir-
ring up the Association. A strong
vital Alumni Association can be of
great value to Washington and Lee.
[ present this plaque to Marshall
Nuckols for the magnificent serv-
ice he has rendered the Alumni
Association.”

Alumni Directors Inaugurate New

Board Room with Long Sessions

EETING FOR THE FIRST TIME simultaneously with
the anniversary class reunions, the Alumni

Board of Directors also put into first use the Board
Room of the new Alumni House.

Ten of the Board’s twelve members were present
to hear special reports from President Cole on the
state of the University, from Assistant to the President
James W. Whitehead on the progress of the Univer-
sity’s Self-Study and how this relates to the self-study
project of the Alumni Board, and from Executive
Secretary William C. Washburn on the Alumni Fund,
the house fund, and the annual budget.

Board President E. Marshall Nuckols reported on
the results to date of the self-study of the association's
organization and relationships with the University.
Upon recommendation of the Executive Committee

Members of the Alumni Board of Directors occupy the

 

which conducted the sell-survey, the Board adopted
resolutions that would provide for:

An assistant to the alumni secretary, experienced
in fund-raising, to devote full time to the organization,
planning, and execution of the Alumni Fund; also,
additional clerical help to support the fund-raising
activities.

An invitation to the University Board of Trustees
for one of its members to attend subsequent meetings
of the Alumni Board, with the purpose of improved
communication and understanding.

Plans for a special three-day meeting of the Alumni
Board in November were announced. Members will
get a comprehensive report from faculty, students, and
administration.

new Board Room of the Alumni House for the first time.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

. |

NG

LT HOMAS C. FROsT, ‘50

lHOMAS W. Moses.

1g66

 

39

 

{dmissions Director JAmMeEs PD,
FARRAR presented a report to
the Alumni Board of Directors
that was, despite the ex pressions
shown, a highly favorable sum-
mation of the admissions situ-

ation at Washington and Lee,

 

 

['YNDALL DICKINSON, '39

‘

Dr. JAMES W. PRIEST, '43

 

 

FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN, ’24

ms JUDGE WARREN H. EDWARDS, '39 B.A., is judge ol
the Criminal Court of Record of Orange County,
Florida. He has been associated with the Orlando, Fla.,
law firm of Edwards & Hoequist as a senior partner,
and he is a past president of the Orange County Bar
Association. A 1947 LL.B. graduate of the University
of Florida, Judge Edwards is a past lieutenant gover-
nor of the Florida District of Kiwanis International.
In 1955-56 he served as a regional agent for the
Alumni Fund, and in the 1958-60 University Develop-
ment Campaign he was chairman for the Orlando area.
He resides now in Orlando.

& FREDERICK BARTENSTEIN, JR., 39 B.A. and ‘41 LL.B.,
is administrative vice-president of Merck & Co., Inc.,
nationally known pharmaceutical and chemical firm.
He has served in several capacities for the Merck firm
and has been active in the company’s general public
relations activities. Bartenstein is a member ol the
Virginia State Bar Association and a member of the
Board of Trustees of The Pingry School of Elizabeth,
New Jersey. He holds memberships in Phi Beta Kappa,
Omicron Delta Kappa, and the Order of the Coif. In
1964-65 he served as an Alumni Fund class agent. He
lives in Mendham, New Jersey.

§ JOHN MARTIN JONES, III, 37, B.A., is president of the
Greeneville Publishing Co., publishers of the Greene-
ville, Tenn., Daily Sun, and the Newport Publishing
Co., publishers of the Newport, Tenn., Plain Talk and
Tribune. He is editor and general manager of the
Daily Sun and resides in Greeneville. In addition to
his publishing interests, Jones serves as an_ officer
and director of a number of other business interests,
including the Agricultural Lime Company, Tennessee
Electro-Minerals Corp., the First National Bank of
Greeneville, Sweetwater Hosiery Mills, and the Down-
towner Corporation of Memphis. A member of the
Great Smoky Mountain National Park Commission
and the State Armories Commission, Jones is also
active in Boy Scout, Chamber of Commerce, and
Democratic Party activities.

10

Three New Members
Of the Alumna Board

 

THE

ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

The Alumni Fund Appears Headed
Toward New High of Over $180,000

FINAL AuUpIT Of receipts by the 1965-66 Alumni
ye Fund was not available as this issue of the
Alumni Magazine went to press, but it was apparent
that the annual campaign had established a record
total of alumni support for Washington and Lee.

Contributions from 3,693 alumni amounted to
$179,312.60, with the possibility that late collections
could push this amount past the $180,000 mark for the
first time ever.

The Alumni Fund fell short of its announced goal
of $225,000, and the number of contributors was 273
less than in the previous year. Nonetheless, members
of the Alumni Fund Council looked on the success ol
the year-long effort as an extraordinary achievement.

During 1965-66, the Alumni Fund campaign was
conducted simultaneously with a separate drive to so-
licit funds for the new Alumni House. Some 1,446
contributors supported this latter drive in the amount
of $72,000, and while the majority of contributing
alumni supported both campaigns, there were some

who responded to only one, including some who had
previously been regular donors to the annual fund.

The Fund Council, under the chairmanship of
George M. Persinger, ‘51, of Lexington, chose to
eliminate one important phase of the annual fund this
year—the regional agent solicitation which is a vital
follow-up to the primary solicitation by class agents.
Because the House Fund involved personal regional
calls by workers, it was felt that the Regional Agent
campaign might introduce confusion and possibly
reduce the effectiveness of both drives.

Thirteen classes achieved 100 per cent of their
class quotas. These include i1g12A, H. Gray Funk-
houser, class agent; 1922A, Dewey Reynolds; 1925L,
Clarence Hinkle; 1926L, Judge Earl Cadmus; 1937,
Everett A. Martin; 1937L, Edward E. Stover; 1938L,
Samuel A. Martin; 1943AXL, A.B. Conley, Jr.; 1951A,
Sam Hollis; 1952L, Thomas R. McNamara; 1956A,
Charles R. Beall; 1960A, Richard J. Aberson; and
1g64A, E. H. Hollman.

Contributions for the Alumni House
Fund Gampaign Continue to Come In

RX THE ALUMNI HOUSE now a reality, housing
the offices of Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
and serving as a campus hospitality center for all visit-

ing alumni, the end of the campaign for financial
support of the House is in sight.

A final mailing is planned for all alumni who have
not contributed to the House Fund thus far, so that
everyone who wishes can have a final opportunity
to be listed among the Washington and Lee men who
helped make the fine new facility possible.

\s of July 1, 1,466 contributors had given $72,000,
with a substantial number of campaign workers still
‘© report from among the various chapters. The chap-

SPRING 1966

ter solicitations, around which the fund campaign was
organized, were officially terminated on June go.

Among the chapters, only one—the Mid-South
Chapter at Memphis—realized 100 per cent of its an-
nounced goal. The Mid-South goal of $5,000 was the
fourth highest among all of the chapters. Several
chapters have nearly three-quarters of their goals
subscribed.

‘The House Fund was conducted under the leader-
ship of H. Graham Morison, ’30L, of Washington,
I. C., as national chairman, with assistance from ten
regional vice-chairmen.

A full, final report on the House Fund is scheduled
for a subsequent issue of the Alumni Magazine.

“CONTACT”

Current Issues, Controversial

Participants Are Part of a New

Student-Conducted Symposium
That Is Now an Annual Event

By Howarp Epstein, ‘67, and JOHN GRAHAM, 67

TUESDAY MORNING telephone
A call in the spring of 1964 as-
sured the birth and subsequent suc-
cess of Washington and Lee’s first
intellectual symposium on_ public
issueS—CONTACT.

Conceived and developed by stu-
dents and approved by the Inter-
fraternity Council, the plan lacked
only official sanction from the Uni-
versity. On a Tuesday morning in
March a telephone call to President
Fred C. Cole, on business in Wash-
ington, obtained his approval, and
CONTACT was born.

Each February CONTACT focuses
upon an area of intellectual con-
cern. To provide a view wider than
the classroom, CONTACT sponsors a
three-day series of lectures, semi-
nars and panel discussions conduct-
ed by a number of outstanding
visiting speakers with knowledge of

12

or opinion on the topic under dis-
cussion,

The program aims at a certain
unity, a fusing of diverse and some-
times contradictory positions es-
poused by the speakers. It stresses
a broad spectrum of views rather
than any particular philosophy.

Underwritten and financed solely
by voluntary contributions by the
Interfraternity Council, the stu-
dent-initiated and managed forum
has succeeded in capturing the re-
spect and enthusiasm of both fac-
ulty and students. Professor of His-
tory, Dr. William A. Jenks, “39, has
called the symposium, “the most
promising evidence since World
War II of student involvement in
problems that truly matter. “Vhis
year there was tremendous interest
in the basic subject and in the
provocative guests who appeared.”

He concludes “*... our own students
can guarantee the kind of academic
infusion Washington and Lee must
have by support of CONTACT.”
Blain Brownell, Birm-
ingham, headed the 1965 CONTACT.
Henry Quekemeyer, ‘65, of Roa-
noke and Phil Claxton, °67, of
Washington, D.C., were assistant

65, ol

chairmen. Their first action was the
national advisory

council, led by Dean Acheson, Sec-

selection of a

retary of State from 1949 to 19538.
Brownell also received significant
aid from Dr. Marshall Fishwick,
Philander P. Claxton, and Colonel
Francis Pickens Miller, ‘14, of the
State Department, and Dr. James
W. Silver of the University of Mis-
sissippi. Colonel Miller, a Wash-
ington and Lee Rhodes Scholar and
currently Foreign Affairs Officer in
the Department of Cultural and
Educational Affairs, and Dr. Silver
also spoke at the forum.

The chairmen and advisors se-
lected six speakers to convey varied
viewpoints on the overall theme
“The American’ Experience: Its
Implications for the Individual Cit-
izen, the American Nation and the
World.”

The opening speaker, James R.
Echols, Cultural Affairs Advisor to
the United States Information
Agency, explained how the “Amer-
ican Image” is presented abroad.
Silver, the author of Mississippi,
the Closed Society, addressed the
second session concerning the condi-
tions in Mississippi and the general
attitude toward civil rights in the
South.

Philander Claxton, discussed the
broad perspective of foreign policy,
while Tom Wicker, the New York
Times Washington Bureau Chief,
pointed up the growing power of
the American presidency and its im-
plications. Presidential assistant
Douglas Cater characterized Lyn-
don Johnson, the man, and elabor-
ated on the Great Society.

On contract's third day, Associ-
ate Editor of the Baltimore Sun,
C. P. Ives, spoke on “Operation Un-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

   

«=
o
al pee ra
tht ee
é ‘

”
¥

Beye 4

+
;
\" te
-
>. Orda
ae

G 1966

 

Dr. JAMES W. Sittver drew large
attendance at a Lee Chapel
CONTACT assembly, above, and
al a seminar session. Other 1065
speakers at left included, top to
bottom, Cor. FRANCIS PICKENS
MILLER, ‘14; New York “TIMEs
Washington correspondent
THOMAS WICKER; and special
presidential assistant) DOUGLAS
CATER.

Co-chairmen of the 1066 CON-
TACT were Pum P. CLAXTON,
III, left above, and ROGER SEN
Nott, lower left. Leaders for
1967 at right are STAFFORD
KEEGIN and LARRY FELLMAN.
Speakers for 1966 included au-
thor MicHaArt HARRINGTON, be-
low center, and BERNARD E. Nor-
wicH, below right, city planner.

 

 

check” and the breakdown of the
checks and_ balances.
Concluding the first CONTACT on a
Sunday night, Colonel Miller dis-
“Americans Abroad and
‘Their ‘Vasks.”’

system of

cussed,

Completion of the first: sympos-
ium elicited considerable faculty
and student comment. Dr. Jenks
reflected that “Many faculty mem-
bers who were not a part of the
planning of the first year’s program
had initial doubts... In the course
of the first sessions, we were quick-
ly disabused of that concern and
impressed by the first committee's
astute use of its resources and of
the advice that came its way...
it was clear that there was sufficient
interest for continuation of the
project.”

An editorial in the Ring-tum
Phi, although critical of several
weaknesses of the symposium, stat-
ed that “the planning and _ presen-
tation of CONTACT deserves the ap-
plause of the entire University. Yet,
the overall impact of the sympos-
ium leaves much to be desired.”

CONTACT ‘66 set out to overcome
these shortcomings. In response to
the criticism that the first forum
overemphasized political matters,
new co-chairmen Roger Sennott,
‘66, and Phil Claxton chose to focus
on the city and its problems—urban
renewal, city planning, slum condi-
tions, financial problems and racial
strife. ‘he co-chairmen selected as
faculty advisors Dr. Edward L. Pin-
ney, Political Science; Dr. Archi-
bald Robertson, Law; Mr. John
Gunn, Economics; Dr. Lewis Hodg-
es, Religion, and Dr. Charles ‘Tur-
ner, History.

In early December, prominent
men in urban affairs were invited
to speak on the February 10-12
weekend. Michael Harrington, a
Norman Thomas socialist and au-
thor of The Other America, opened
the program on a Thursday night
with a criticism of present urban
poverty programs. The former edi-
tor of Manhattan’s social conscious
Catholic Worker, Harrington chal-

14

lenged society to create, “a society
in which everybody eats.” The re-
cent tax cut and poverty programs,
he stressed, have failed to reach the
families that need them.

Bernard E. Norwich, Director of
Advertising and Public Relations
lor Reston, a planned community
lor 75,000 in Fairfax County, Vir-
ginia, examined the science of city
planning. Norwich emphasized the
problems of aesthetic beauty and
functional efficiency in the first
totally planned community in the
United States. He supplemented his
address with slides of Reston.

Urban personality was the sub-
ject of Professor of Social Philoso-
phy Ernest Van den Haag of New
York University on Friday evening.
The frequent contributor to the
National Review emphasized the
evolution of the city dweller toward
an anonymous existence. The city
dweller’s insatiable desire for ex-
citement and inability to be excit-
ed, Van den Haag said, drives him
to alcohol and drugs. Aggravating
this problem, he pointed out, is the
separation of business and residen-
tial areas.

Dr. Jay IT. Wright, consulting
psychologist from Pittsburgh, con-
demned higher education in society
as the creator of conformity and
mediocrity. He recommended that
small colleges such as Washington
and Lee should strive for a diversi-
hed faculty.

Sunday afternoon, Claude
Brown, author of Manchild in The
Promised Land, illustrated from
first-hand experience, the disillus-
ionment in Harlem. Not even, the
“black bourgeoisie” comprehend
the plight of the Negro in the
ghetto, Brown declared. The Negro
is ‘no longer willing to accept his
situation passively,” he said.

A student body poll taken the
following Monday indicated over-
whelming support for the sympos-
ium. Nearly 62 per cent of the stu-
dents attended, and 83 per cent fav-
ored continuation. CONTACT had
proven itself,

CONTACT for 1967, under the di-
rection of Staflord W. Keegin, Law
School, ‘68, Chairman, and W.
Lawrence Fellman, Assistant Chair-
man, will examine some of the revo-
lutionary forces caused by the ris-
ing expectations and discontinuity
produced by a new affluency, wit-
nessed not only by the citizens of
the United States, but the World
community as well. The scope ol
the program will be broad, bring-
ing into focus some of the new
hopes and disintegration of old pat-
terns in the churches, education
and the college campus, public
morality, politics, both domestic
and foreign, the arts, and the busi-
ness community,

The first business of the new
CONTACT Committee, however, was
lar more basic than the determina-
tion of a topic for the 1967  pro-
gram. Because students themselves,
through the IFC, are the sponsors
of the program and no admission is
charged for participation in the
seminars and lectures, and because
the CONTACT program for 1966
failed to break even financially, the
committee set Out to revamp its in-
ternal structure in order to be in
compliance with the Internal Rev-
enue Code sections on non-profit
associations, thereby making all
contributions by interested parties
tax deductible. While the commit-
tee has not, as of this writing, re-
ceived a ruling from IRS, they do
not anticipate difficulty in this re-
gard. Because of the overwhelming
support of CONTACT on the campus
and off, the committee is confident
that the financial difhiculties it now
laces can be overcome and _ that
CONTACT for 1967 will be as exciting
an intellectual experience as it has
been in the past.

Assistant Professor of Economics
John M. Gunn, Jr., evaluated con-
TACT as giving “a sense of reality to
a student’s work, to make it more
vital, and to stimulate and inspire.
CONTACT thereby has made a large
addition to the collegiate exper-
ience at Washington and Lee.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Alumni Sons
Among Those
Earning PBK

Bill Washburn’s Son and
Cy Young’s Grandson
Receive Coveted Keys

HE GRANDSON of a former alumni
Ls retary and the son of the pres-
ent alumni secretary were among
three alumni sons who were selected
lor membership in Phi Beta Kappa
in April.

MI. Neely Young, I,
\I. Neely Young, ’

and grandson ol

‘66, son ol
13, of Richmond,
Harry K. “Cy”
Young, 17, the University’s alum-
ni secretary for thirty-three years,
was honored for academic achieve-

ment, as was William C. Wash-

burn, Jr., ‘66, the son of the pres-
ent alumni secretary, William C.
Washburn, ‘40, who succeeded

Young in 1958.

\nother son of an alumnus,
Charles G. Walker, III, ’66, son of
C. G. Walker, Jr., ‘40, of San An-
tonio, Tex, also was elected to
nembership in the national hon-
orar\ society.

in all, twenty-two new members
! Phi Beta Kappa were initiated in
ceremonies on April 12. Included
were three law students, fourteen
seniors, four juniors, and one stu-

dent participating in the 3-2 co-
operative engineering program with
ensselaer Polytechnic Institute.

\mong the law students was
Donald W. Huffman, remembered
Dy many recent alumni as the own-
cr of the College ‘Town Shop in
Lexington. Huffman has been a
part-time student in the School of
Law since 1961.

speakers at the annual convo-
ation in Lee Chapel for Phi Beta
Kappa initiates was Dr. James S.
Coles, president of Bowdoin Col-
Brunswick, Me.

NG 1966

 

    

NEELY YOUNG, III, left, grandson of the former alumni secretary, Cy YOUNG, ‘17, and

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, JR., son of the present alumni secretary, WILLIAM C. WASHBURN,

‘40, admire their new Phi Beta Kappa keys following their initiation into the national
honorary fraternity.

Speaker at the annual Phi Beta Kappa
Issembly in Lee Chapel was Dr. JAMEs §.
Corrs, president of Bowdoin College.

 

Another alumni son, CHARLES G. WALKER,

IIl, son of CHARLES G. WALKER, JR., ‘40,
of San Antonio, spoke for the new ini
tiates at the Phi Beta Kappa banquet.

15

 

The Law School's former dean, Pror. CLAYTON FE.
dents prior to the start of the 1966 Tucker Lecture. In the left fore is Tazewell attorney

noke attorney EARL Firzparrick, ‘29, left, and Martinsville attorney Sratt

 

>

WILLIAMS, ‘12, in the right foreground, has the attention of three of his former stu
\tBbert G. Peery, '92; behind him are Roa-
SENATOR WILLIAM $F,

STONE, ‘33.

Trustee Lewis F. Powell, Fr., °31L, Former
ABA President, Delivers 1966 Tucker Lecture

IVIL) DISOBEDIENCE—the doctrine
¢ by which individuals claim
the right to determine “just” laws
from “unjust” laws—has come un-
der the critical appraisal of the dis-
tinguished Washington and Lee
law alumnus who headed the Amer-
ican Bar Association in 1964-65.

In delivering the 1966 John Ran-
dolph ‘Tucker Lecture in Law in
Lee Chapel on April 16, Lewis F.
Powell, Jr., ‘29, called civil diso-

bedience “a heresy which could
weaken the foundations of our sys-
tem of government under law.”

Powell was critical of lawyers
who have remained silent in de-
nouncing civil disobedience — as
“fundamentally inconsistent” with
the rule of law.

“History has demonstrated that
once a society condones organized
defiance of law and due process, it
difficult to

becomes increasingly

16

protect its institutions and to safe-
guard liberty,” he declared.

Said Powell, a member of the
Board ol
“There may be real doubt whethen

University’s lL rustees.

the forces and passions already set

 

 

Lewis F. Powe.n, JR., 911

In motion can be reversed short ol
grave damage to basic values of a
lree society.”

Powell addressed an audience ol
several hundred law students, law
alumni, and guests in a noon as-
sembly. Uhe Tucker Lecture coin-
cided with the School of Law’s ob-
servance of Law Day and the an-
nual meeting of the Law School
Association.

Fred M. Vinson, Jr., 51, of Wash-
ington, D.C., was elected to suc-
ceed Willis M. Anderson, ‘52, of
Roanoke, as president of the asso-
ciation. Other officers chosen  in-
clude Thomas R. McNamara, ‘52,
ol Norfolk, vice-president; Robert
EK. R. Huntley, ’50, secretary-treas-
urer; and Miss Louise Moore, as-
sistant secretary-treasurer. Andrew
M. McThenia, Jr., °58, of Alexan-
dria, was elected to the association’s

council.

LHE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Three Alumni Are ‘Tapped for ODK

ASHINGTON AND LEE’S Alpha
Xy Circle of Omicron Delta Kap-
pa honored three alumni in March
at its annual “tap day” assembly.
(chosen were A. Linwood Holton,
14, Roanoke attorney and the Re-
publican gubernatorial candidate
Roger H.

well-known television

in Virginia in
Mudd, ‘50,
correspondent for CBS News; and
Col. Charles R. Stribling, Jr., °17,
superintendent of the Missouri Mil-

l gO5;

itary Academy in Mexico, Mo.
\lso chosen for membership, in
addition to twenty student initiates,

SPRING 10966

was Dr. Charles F. Phillips, presi-
dent of Bates College, Lewiston,
Me.. who delivered the ODK convo-

cation address.

Dr. Phillips, a noted economist
and the father of Washington and
Lee’s associate professor of econom-
ics, Dr. C. F. Phillips, Jr., talked
about the nation’s economic
strength in his address. He called
for further tax reductions as a boost

to economic growth.

While unsuccessful in his bid for
the Virginia governorship, Holton

 

polled more than 200,000 votes in
opposition to the Democratic party
“Byrd machine.”

Mudd has risen to the forefront
in CBS News’ organization serving
as an anchor man for the Democrat-
ic National Convention in 1964
and in subsequent key roles as a
TV newsman.

Colonel Stribling has been pres-
ident of Missouri Military Academy
since 1933. He has won recognition
as an Outstanding civic leader, and
he served with distinction in two
World Wars.

fbove, Cov. CHARLES R. STRIBLING, JR., ‘17. Al left, A. LInwoop
HOLTON, JR., “44, left, and Dr. CHarces F. Puitiips read of their

new ODK membership in the student newspaper. Below left, the

nationally familiar RoGer H. Muppb, ‘50; and below right, Dr. PHIL-
Lips in one of many characteristic speaking gestures.

oa

 

7~

HE SOUTHERN COLLEGIAN—whose
‘tes dates from General Lee’s
administration a century ago—is
apparently through as an officially-
sanctioned student publication at
Washington and Lee.

Without a dissenting voice, the
faculty endorsed a_ resolution at
its March meeting in which it op-
posed “continuation of the pay-
ment of funds from the compre-
hensive tuition fee to support the
Southern Collegian.

The faculty action stemmed
from a recommendation from the
University’s Self-Study Committee
which cited the magazine’s poor
taste in content, the embarrassment
suffered by the University as a re-
sult, and the committee’s opinion
that the magazine served no useful
educational purpose.

Student reaction, as expressed in
the Ring-tum Phi, was indignant,
charging the faculty, administra-
tion, and Self-Study committee with
a “sneak attack” upon student tra-
dition without proper consultation
or notification. ‘The student body
executive committee gave its official
support to a Publications Board
request of President Cole to delay
action on the faculty resolution un-
til students could present argu-
ments why the magazine should
continue to receive University
funds,

Reacting to the student petitions
and resolutions, President Cole re-
ferred the matter to the newly-
created Student Affairs Commit-
tee—itself an outgrowth of the two-
year Self-Study process—for _ its
study and recommendation. The
ten-man Committee, which includes
four students as voting members,
recommended that the faculty per-
mit the president of the Publica-
tions Board to appear before the
faculty to argue the merits of con-
tinued Southern Collegian support.
The committee also recommended
that the Library make available
back issues of the magazine for fac-
ulty perusal.

The faculty agreed, and at its

is

May meeting, senior Drew Baur,
a former editor of the Southern
Collegian and current Publications
Board president, presented the
magazine's case. He said the facul-
ty’s action had come just at a time
when the Publications Board itself
was going to study the Southern
Collegian, and he promised a new
look in the magazine with a heavy
emphasis on satire in the future.
And, he said, compared with humor
magazines at other schools, the
Collegian wasn't so bad.

Many professors said they were

The

Collegian

Loses Its

University
Endorsement

impressed by the way in which
Baur made his presentation, but
as a group they were unimpressed
by his arguments. Although no fur-
ther action was necessary for the
faculty, it was moved that the fac-
ulty go on record with an emphatic
reathrmation of its previous March
resolution. Baur apparently had
persuaded one person, for in the
vote on this motion, there was one
dissenting nay.

Initial student charges of facul-
ty-administration subterfuge and
secrecy proved difficult to support,
including the allegation that the
Self-Study Committee had _ failed
to seck student opinion on_ the
Southern Collegian.

Throughout the 1965-66 school
year a_ series of meetings
were conducted by the Self-Study
Committee to elicit faculty and

open

student comment and question on
all phases of University activity.
Separate meetings for faculty and
students were held for each phase
of the Self-Study process, with stu-
dent publications introduced in the
section on student life, one of the
lengthiest and most comprehensive
of the Self-Study projects.

Prior to each meeting, a summary
of the content and scope of the Self-
Study in a given area was circulated
to every faculty member, to mem-
bers of the student body executive
committee, to fraternity presidents,
and the editors of the, Ring-tum
Phi. Copies were made available
through the Self-Study office to any
student who wanted one.

The summary distributed on
student life included this mention
of the Southern Collegian in the
form of questions which had arisen
in the Self-Study Committee and
the committee’s preliminary reac-
tion:

“Can Washington and Lee alf-
ford the luxury of a subsidized
humor magazine?

“Does the Southern
serve any educational purpose to
justify its forced subscription by all
enrolled students?

“Should Washington and Lee re-
move its sponsorship of this publi-
cation?

“The Faculty Advisory Commit-
tee should study whether the value
of this publication justifies its cost.
If it is determined that Washing-
ton and Lee should remove its
sponsorship of the Southern Colle-
gian, the best means of accomplish-
ing this objective should be ascer-
tained (withholding of funds?) and
recommendations made to the Pres-
ident for possible presentation to
the Board of Trustees.”

Collegian

Prior to the meeting conducted
by Assistant Dean of Students Lewis
G. John, '58, an editorial appeared
in the Ring-tum Phi under the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

‘ithe “A Lament: ‘Traditional
\pathy.” The editorial comment-
ed on the lack of student attend-
ance at previous Self-Study open
sessions on the College and the
School of Commerce and Admin-
istration. It mentioned the Self-
Study Committee’s disappointment
in the student attendance (just one
student attended the hearing on the
College and its entire academic
program). Said the editorial:

“This afternoon and tomorrow
evening the report to students on
ihe progress of the Self-Study sec-
tion on student life will be pre-
sented in Newcomb Hall. This re-
port deals with student govern-
ment, publications, athletics, dis-
cipline, and several other topics
pertaining to student life at Wash-
ington and Lee. Dean John, analyst
for this section, will be available
not only at these public meetings
but also for individual discussion
of the report.

“Quite obviously the student life
discussions are potentially the most
appealing meetings, but it is doubt-
ful if the attendance will undergo
any significant change. The Ring-
jum Phi, however, wishes to urge
students to take part in these meet-
ings for the simple reason that the
faculty may not provide similar
outlets for student opinion in the
luture. We will agree with the fac-
ulty’s present feeling that the stu-
dent response thus far does not
warrant continued effort in this
area. In spite of this disenchant-
ment with attendance, the meetings
are continuing, and more will be
scheduled following the holidays.
Certainly our obligation to the
(niversity requires firm support
of this program.”

(he upshot of this urging by
‘he student newspaper was that no
students attended the first student
Open session, and four showed up
‘or the second. ‘The possible demise
ol the Southern Collegian was dis-
cussed, but Dean John reported to
‘he Self-Study committee that no
particular objection was raised by

SPRING 1966

the four students, and that interest
centered on whether funds with-
drawn from the Collegian could be
applied to Ariel, an independent
student literary magazine.

Actually, the Southern Collegian
has been under increasing criti-
cism—including student criticism—
for far longer than the two-year
course of the Self-Study. With the
publication of each issue the Pres-
ident’s office and the Dean of Stu-
dents would receive letters of pro-
test from parents of students and
from the parents of students’ dates,
criticizing the University for per-
mitting such a magazine to be pub-
lished. Faculty dissatisfaction with
the magazine was widespread and
vocal.

In March, 1964, Dean of Students
Edward C. Atwood appealed to the
president of the student body to
introduce a resolution before the
Executive Committee that would
remove the Southern Collegian
from the support of the Student
Body Fund. A similar resolution
was presented to the Executive
Committee by a student, acting in-
dependently of Dean Atwood.

Financial support of the Col-
legian at that time involved the
student body constitution and the
right of the EC to allocate funds
for various publications. As it
turned out, the EC ruled that it
could not act on the Collegian
without a student referendum, and
the matter never came to a vote.

Meanwhile, Dean Atwood con-
tinued to seek some way to remove
University endorsement and sup-
port of the magazine through the
student activities fee, a charge
made of all students and turned
over to the Student Body Fund. Ac-
cording to Dean Atwood, he would
meet with each new editor of the
Southern Collegian and warn him
point blank that he was going to
try to get rid of the magazine.

The problem of the Southern
Collegian came up early in the
Self-Study and was discussed at
length. Then in 1965-66, the Unt-

versity’s Board of ‘Trustees author-
ized the adoption of a comprehen-
sive tuition fee that would elimi-
nate the student activities fee as a
separate charge. The Student Body
Fund would continue to receive
University support, but this sup-
port would be given on the basis of
submitted budgets for each activity.
‘This, in the view of the Self-Study
Committee, provided the means by
which support of the Southern Col-
legian could be withdrawn without
conflict with the student body
constitution. The Committee ap-
proved a recommendation calling
for faculty action that would end
official recognition of the Southern
Collegian and bring about the
withdrawal of financial support.

The Southern Collegian is ex-
pected to continue as a_ student
publication, but it won't have help
from the University. In the past the
University subsidy has made up
about half of the $3,000 annual
costs of publication. The magazine
will have to depend on subscrip-
tions and advertising, and its future
is doubtful.

The magazine is no longer print-
ed on campus in the Journalism
Laboratory Press, and one com-
mercial printer produced just one
issue last year before disassociating
itself with the magazine on the
basis of its content and emphasis.

For many alumni and_ faculty
members, the decline of the Col-
legian is regrettable for it once was
an excellent ‘outlet for student tal-
ent. Even though specific issues in
the past would occasionally be
banned by the Publications Board,
there was cleverness in its humor
and imagination in its content.

Many students say they still think
the Collegian is great and that it
will thrive independently. But at
least some students and many
others share the view of one senior
who wrote in the Ring-tum Phi at
the height of the controversy last
March:

“Let's admit it, the Southern Col-
legian is garbage.”

19

Some Comments on the Special Supplement

And Its Relevance
To Washington and Lee University

HE PAGES THAT FOLLOW are a comprehensive commentary on an impressive
a ceke significant development that is taking place generally across our nation,
one that is being felt most particularly on the college campuses of America.

This development is simply change.

Recognizably, change is inevitable. Indeed, it would be distressing for changes
not to take place. And when change comes to a college or university, its accom-
plishment often brings the passing of many attitudes, practices, and traditions
that are held most warmly in the hearts of loyal alumni.

Today's climate of change does not affect every college or university in the
same way, but all are affected one way or another. The article and views pre-
sented here offer a remarkably full conception of what is happening on the
college campuses today. It is an article that can be read with benefit by every
member of a college family—trustees, faculty, students, and, perhaps most par-
ticularly, alumni, who are generally the most removed from the scene of actual
campus change.

The undersigned editors and member of the Alumni Magazine editorial
board urge every alumnus to read this article. But one comment is pertinent and
demanded:

The trend of change here presented is felt at Washington and Lee, although
not every aspect of change mentioned in the article has manifested itself at our
University. Change has come to Washington and Lee in many forms, and it will
continue to come, as it should. It has not been change for the sake of change,
but necessary adjustment required if Washington and Lee is even to keep pace
with progress in American higher education, let alone exert a degree of leader-
ship.

Not all of us will agree as to the desirability of specific changes, nor perhaps
to the direction of general change. Some of us, with justification, genuinely regret
the passing of certain customs and traditions that are unchanging in their im-
portance to us and our memories of Washington and Lee.

But if each alumnus could return to this campus, and spend time enough
here to become wholly familiar with the Washington and Lee of 1966, to
understand its special problems, its challenges, and its opportunities, then we
believe he would agree that our University is a far better, a far stronger institu-
tion than it has ever been before in its 217 years of existence.

And above all, he would agree—you would agree--that there are some vital
characteristics of the University that have not changed, and hopefully will never
change. Personal honor and integrity, the dignity of every individual, a concern
for every student and professor as a unique and sensitive person—these eternal
verities still abide.

WILLIAM C, WASHBURN, ‘40, Editor
FRANK A. PARSONS, ‘54, Managing Editor
PRANK J. GILLIAM, '17, Member of the Editorial Board

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

No memory of Alma Mater

older than a year or so

ws likely to bear much resemblance
to today’s college or university.
Which, in our fast-moving society,
us precisely as tt should be,

uf higher education is. . .

‘Lo Keep Pace
with America

 

HAT ON EARTH is going on, there?

Across the land, alumni and alumnae are asking
that question about their alma maters. Most of
America’s colleges and universities are changing
rapidly, and some of them drastically. Alumni and
alumnae, taught for years to be loyal to good oLp
Siwash and to be sentimental about its history and
traditions, are puzzled or outraged.

And they are not the only ones making anguished
responses to the new developments on the nation’s
campuses.

From a student in Texas: ‘‘The professors care less
and less about teaching. They don’t grade our papers
or exams any more, and they turn over the discus-
sion sections of their classes to graduate students.
Why can’t we have mind-to-mind combat?”

From a university administrator in Michigan:
“The faculty and students treat this place more like
a bus terminal every year. They come and go as they
never did before.”

From a professor at a college in Pennsylvania:
“The present crop of students? They’re the brightest
ever. They’re also the most arrogant, cynical, dis-
respectful, ungrateful, and intense group I’ve taught
in 30 years.”’

From a student in Ohio: ‘‘The whole bit on this
Campus now is about ‘the needs of society,’ ‘the
needs of the international situation,’ ‘the needs of
the 18M system.’ What about my needs?”’

From the dean of a college in Massachusetts:
‘Everything historic and sacred, everything built by
2,000 years of civilization, suddenly seems old hat.
Wisdom now consists in being up-to-the-minute.”

From a professor in New Jersey: “‘So help me, I
only have time to read about 10 books a year, now.
I’m always behind.”

From a professor at a college for women in
Virginia: “‘What’s happening to good manners?
And good taste? And decent dress? Are we entering
a new age of the slob?”

From a trustee of a university in Rhode Island:
‘They all want us to care for and support our institu-
tion, when they themselves don’t give a hoot.”

From an alumnus of a college in California: “‘No
one seems to have time for friendship, good humor,
and fun, now. The students don’t even sing, any
more. Why, most of them don’t know the college
songs.”

What zs happening at America’s colleges and
universities to cause such comments?

Today’s colleges and universities:

T BEGAN around 1950—silently, unnoticed. The
signs were little ones, seemingly unconnected. Sud-
denly the number of books published began to soar.
That year Congress established a National Science
Foundation to promote scientific progress through
education and basic research. College enrollments,
swollen by returned war veterans with G.I. Bill
benefits, refused to return to ‘‘normal’’; instead, they
began to rise sharply. Industry began to expand its
research facilities significantly, raiding the colleges
and graduate schools for brainy talent. Faculty
salaries, at their lowest since the 1930’s in terms of
real income, began to inch up at the leading col-
leges. China, the most populous nation in the world,
fell to the Communists, only a short time after several
Eastern European nations were seized by Com-
munist coups d’état; and, aided by support from
several philanthropic foundations, there was a rush
to study Communism, military problems and
weapons, the Orient, and underdeveloped countries.

Now, 15 years later, we have begun to compre-
hend what started then. The United States, locked
in a Cold War that may drag on for half a century,
has entered a new era of rapid and unrelenting
change. The nation continues to enjoy many of the
benefits of peace, but it is forced to adopt much of
the urgency and pressure of wartime. To meet the
bold challenges from outside, Americans have had
to transform many of their nation’s habits and in-
stitutions.

The biggest change has been in the rate of change
itself.

Life has always changed. But never in the history
of the world has it changed with such rapidity as it
does now. Scientist J. Robert Oppenheimer recently
observed: “‘One thing that is new is the prevalence of
newness, the changing scale and scope of change it-
self, so that the world alters as we walk in it, so that
the years of a man’s life measure not some small
growth or rearrangement or modification of what he
learned in childhood, but a great upheaval.”

Psychiatrist Erik Erikson has put it thus: ‘‘To-
day, men over 50 owe their identity as individu-
als, as citizens, and as professional workers to a
period when change had a different quality and

Copyright 1966 by Editorial Projects for Education, Inc.

when a dominant view of the world was one of
a one-way extension into a future of prosperity,
progress, and reason. If they rebelled, they did so
against details of this firm trend and often only for
the sake of what they thought were even firmer
ones. They learned to respond to the periodic chal-
lenge of war and revolution by reasserting the in-
terrupted trend toward normalcy. What has changed’
in the meantime is, above all, the character of
change itself.”

This new pace of change, which is not likely to
slow down soon, has begun to affect every facet of
American life. In our vocabulary, people now speak
of being ‘‘on the move,” of ‘‘running around,” and
of “go, go, go.”’ In our politics, we are witnessing
a major realignment of the two-party system. Editor
Max Ways of Fortune magazine has said, ‘‘Most
American political and social issues today arise out
of a concern over the pace and quality of change.”
In our morality, many are becoming more “‘cool,””
or uncommitted. If life changes swiftly, many think
it wise not to get too attached or devoted to any
particular set of beliefs or hierarchy of values.

 

 

 

busy faculties, serous students, and hard courses

Of all American institutions, that which is most
profoundly affected by the new tempo of radical
change is the school. And, although all levels of
schooling are feeling the pressure to change, those
probably feeling it the most are our colleges and
universities.

T THE HEART of America’s shift to a new
life of constant change is a revolution in the role
and nature of higher education. Increasingly, all of
us live in a society shaped by our colleges and
universities.

From the campuses has come the expertise to
travel to the moon, to crack the genetic code, and
to develop computers that calculate as fast as light.
From the campuses has come new information
about Africa’s resources, Latin-American econom-
ics, and Oriental politics. In the past 15 years, col-
lege and university scholars have produced a dozen

 

 

 

 

or more accurate translations of the Bible, more
than were produced in the past 15 centuries. Uni-
versity researchers have helped virtually to wipe
out three of the nation’s worst diseases: malaria,
tuberculosis, and polio. The chief work in art and
music, outside of a few large cities, is now being
done in our colleges and universities. And profound
concern for the U.S. racial situation, for U.S. for-
eign policy, for the problems of increasing urbanism,
and for new religious forms is now being expressed
by students and professors inside the academies
of higher learning.

As American colleges and universities have been
instrumental in creating a new world of whirlwind
change, so have they themselves been subjected to
unprecedented pressures to change. They are differ-
ent places from what they were 15 years ago—in
some cases almost unrecognizably different. The
faculties are busier, the students more serious, and
the courses harder. The campuses gleam with new
buildings. While the shady-grove and_paneled-
library colleges used to spend nearly all of their
time teaching the young, they have now been
burdened with an array of new duties.

Clark Kerr, president of the University of Cali-
fornia, has put the new situation succinctly: ‘‘The
university has become a prime instrument of na-
tional purpose. This is new. This is the essence of
the transformation now engulfing our universities.”

The colleges have always assisted the national
purpose by helping to produce better clergymen,
farmers, lawyers, businessmen, doctors, and teach-
ers. Through athletics, through religious and moral
guidance, and through fairly demanding academic
work, particularly in history and literature, the
colleges have helped to keep a sizable portion of
the men who have ruled America rugged, reason-
ably upright and public-spirited, and informed and
sensible. The problem of an effete, selfish, or igno-
rant upper class that plagues certain other nations
has largely been avoided in the United States.

But never before have the colleges and universities
been expected to fulfill so many dreams and projects
of the American people. Will we outdistance the
Russians in the space race? It depends on the caliber

 

 

of scientists and engineers that our universities pro-
duce. Will we find a cure for cancer, for arthritis,
for the common cold? It depends upon the faculties
and the graduates of our medical schools. Will we
stop the Chinese drive for world dominion? It de-
pends heavily on the political experts the universi-
ties turn out and on the military weapons that
university research helps develop. Will we be able
to maintain our high standard of living and to avoid
depressions? It depends upon whether the universi-
ties can supply business and government with in-
ventive, imaginative, farsighted persons and ideas.
Will we be able to keep human values alive in our
machine-filled world? Look to college philosophers
and poets. Everyone, it seems—from the impover-
ished but aspiring Negro to the mother who wants
her children to be emotionally healthy—sees the col-
lege and the university as a deliverer, today.

Thus it is no exaggeration to say that colleges and
universities have become one of our greatest re-
sources in the cold war, and one of our greatest
assets in the uncertain peace. America’s schools
have taken a new place at the center of society.
Ernest Sirluck, dean of graduate studies at the
University of ‘Toronto, has said: ‘‘The calamities of
recent history have undermined the prestige and
authority of what used to be the great central insti-
tutions of society. ... Many people have turned to
the universities . . . in the hope of finding, through
them, a renewed or substitute authority in life.”

HE NEW PRESSURES to serve the nation in
an ever-expanding variety of ways have wrought a
stunning transformation in most American colleges
and universities.

For one thing, they /ook different, compared with
15 years ago. Since 1950, American colleges and
universities have spent about $16.5 billion on new
buildings. One third of the entire higher education
plant in the United States is less than 15 years old.
More than 180 completely new campuses are now
being built or planned.

Scarcely a college has not added at least one
building to its plant; most have added three, four,
or more. (Science buildings, libraries, and dormi-
tories have been the most desperately needed addi-

New responsibilities
are transform ine
once-quiet campuses

tions.) Their architecture and placement have
moved some alumni and students to howls of pro-
test, and others to expressions of awe and delight.

The new construction is required largely because
of the startling growth in the number of young
people wanting to go to college. In 1950, there
were about 2.2 million undergraduates, or roughly
18 percent of all Americans between 18 and 21
years of age. This academic year, 1965-66, there
are about 5.4 million undergraduates—a whopping
30 percent of the 18-21 age group.* The total num-
ber of college students in the United States has
more than doubled in a mere decade and a half.

As two Officials of the American Council on Edu-
cation pointed out, not long ago: “It is apparent
that a permanent revolution in collegiate patterns
has occurred, and that higher education has be-
come and will continue to be the common training
ground for American adult life, rather than the
province of a small, select portion of society.”

Of today’s 5.4 million undergraduates, one in
every five attends a kind of college that barely
existed before World War II—the junior, or com-
munity, college. Such colleges now comprise nearly
one third of America’s 2,200 institutions of higher
education. In California, where community colleges
have become an integral part of the higher educa-
tion scene, 84 of every 100 freshmen and sophomores
last year were enrolled in this kind of institution. By
1975, estimates the U.S. Office of Education, one
in every two students, nationally, will attend a
two-year college.

Graduate schools are growing almost as fast.

*The percentage is sometimes quoted as being much higher be-
cause it is assumed that nearly all undergraduates are in the 18-21
bracket. Actually only 68 percent of all college students are in that
age category. Three percent are under 18; 29 percent are over 21.

H wher education’ s
patterns are changing;
so are its leaders

While only 11 percent of America’s college gradu-
ates went on to graduate work in 1950, about 25
percent will do so after their commencement in
1966. At one institution, over 85 percent of the
recipients of bachelor’s degrees now continue their
education at graduate and professional schools.
Some institutions, once regarded primarily as under-
graduate schools, now have more graduate students
than undergraduates. Across America, another phe-
nomenon has occurred: numerous state colleges
have added graduate schools and become uni-
versities.

There are also dramatic shifts taking place among
the various kinds of colleges. It is often forgotten
that 877, or 40 percent, of America’s colleges and
universities are related, in one way or another, with
religious denominations (Protestant, 484; Catholic,
366; others, 27). But the percentage of the nation’s
students that the church-related institutions enroll
has been dropping fast; last year they had 950,000
undergraduates, or only 18 percent of the total.
Sixty-nine of the church-related colleges have fewer
than 100 students. ‘Twenty percent lack accredita-
tion, and another 30 percent are considered to be
academically marginal. Partially this is because
they have been unable to find adequate financial
support. A Danforth Foundation commission on
church colleges and universities noted last spring:
‘The irresponsibility of American churches in pro-
viding for their institutions is deplorable. ‘The aver-
age contribution of churches to their colleges is only
12.8 percent of their operating budgets.”

Church-related colleges have had to contend
with a growing secularization in American life, with
the increasing difficulty of locating scholars with a
religious commitment, and with bad planning from
their sponsoring church groups. About planning,
the Danforth Commission report observed: “‘No one

 

 

1.

Tw

SLI

Tote

”

 

 

 

 

 

can justify the operation of four Presbyterian col- >
leges in Iowa, three Methodist colleges in Indiana,
five United Presbyterian institutions in Missouri, 7
nine Methodist colleges in North Carolina (includ-
ing two brand new ones), and three Roman Catholic
colleges for women in Milwaukee.”’

Another important shift among the colleges is 7
the changing position of private institutions, as pub-
lic institutions grow in size and number at a much
faster rate. In 1950, 50 percent of all students were-
enrolled in private colleges; this year, the private”
colleges’ share is only 33 percent. By 1975, fewer
than 25 percent of all students are expected to be

 

 

 

 

 

enrolled in the non-public colleges and universities.

Other changes are evident: More and more stu-
dents prefer urban colleges and universities to rural
ones; now, for example, with more than 400,000
students in her colleges and universities, America’s
greatest college town is metropolitan New York.
Coeducation is gaining in relation to the all-men’s
and the all-women’s colleges. And many predomi-
nantly Negro colleges have begun to worry about
their future. The best Negro students are sought
after by many leading colleges and universities, and
each year more and more Negroes enroll at inte-
rated institutions. Precise figures are hard to come

by, but 15 years ago there were roughly 120,000
Negroes in college, 70 percent of them in predomi-
nantly Negro institutions; last year, according to
Whitney Young, Jr., executive director of the
National Urban League, there were 220,000 Ne-
groes in college, but only 40 percent at predomi-
nantly Negro institutions.

   

HE REMARKABLE GROWTH in the number of
students going to college and the shifting patterns
of college attendance have had great impact on the
administrators of the colleges and universities. They
have become, at many institutions, a new breed
of men.

Not too long ago, many college and university
presidents taught a course or two, wrote important
papers on higher education as well as articles and
books in their fields of scholarship, knew most of
the faculty intimately, attended alumni reunions,
and spoke with heartiness and wit at student din-
ners, Rotary meetings, and football rallies. Now
many presidents are preoccupied with planning
their schools’ growth and with the crushing job of
finding the funds to make such growth possible.

Many a college or university president today is,
above all else, a fund-raiser. If he is head of a pri-
vate institution, he spends great amounts of time
searching for individual and corporate donors; if he
leads a public institution, he adds the task of legis-
lative relations, for it is from the legislature that the
bulk of his financial support must come.

With much of the rest of his time, he is involved
in economic planning, architectural design, person-
nel recruitment for his faculty and staff, and curric-
ulum changes. (Curriculums have been changing
almost as substantially as the physical facilities,
because the explosion in knowledge has been as
sizable as the explosion in college admissions. Whole
new fields such as biophysics and mathematical
economics have sprung up; traditional fields have
expanded to include new topics such as comparative
ethnic music and the history of film; and topics
that once were touched on lightly, such as Oriental
studies or oceanography, now require extended
treatment. )

To cope with his vastly enlarged duties, the mod-

Many professors are research-minded specialists

ern college or university president has often had to
double or triple his administrative staff since 1950.
Positions that never existed before at most institu-
tions, such as campus architects, computer pro-
grammers, government liaison officials, and deans
of financial aid, have sprung up. The number of
institutions holding membership in the American
College Public Relations Association, to cite only
one example, has risen from 591 in 1950 to more
than 1,000 this year—including nearly 3,000 indi-
vidual workers in the public relations and fund-
raising field.

A whole new profession, that of the college ‘‘de-
velopment officer,” has virtually been created in
the past 15 years to help the president, who is usu-
ally a transplanted scholar, with the twin problems
of institutional growth and fund-raising. According
to Eldredge Hiller, executive director of the Ameri-
can Association of Fund-Raising Counsel, “‘In 1950
very few colleges and universities, except those in
the Ivy League and scattered wealthy institutions,
had directors or vice presidents of development.
Now there are very few institutions of higher learn-
ing that do not.”’ In addition, many schools that
have been faced with the necessity of special de-
velopment projects or huge capital campaigns have
sought expertise and temporary personnel from out-
side development consultants. ‘The number of major
firms in this field has increased from 10 to 26 since
1950, and virtually every firm’s staff has grown
dramatically over the years.

Many alumni, faculty members, and students
who have watched the president’s suite of offices
expand have decried the ‘‘growing bureaucracy.”
What was once “old President Doe” is now ‘The
Administration,” assailed on all sides as a driving,
impersonal, remote organization whose purposes
and procedures are largely alien to the traditional
world of academe.

No doubt there is some truth to such charges. In
their pursuit of dollars to raise faculty salaries and
to pay for better facilities, a number of top officials
at America’s colleges and universities have had
insufficient time for educational problems, and some
have been more concerned with business efficiency

than with producing intelligent, sensible human

beings. However, no one has yet suggested how ©

‘“‘prexy” can be his old, sweet, leisurely, scholarly
self and also a dynamic, farsighted administrator

who can successfully meet the new challenges of —

unprecedented, radical, and constant change.

One president in the Midwest recently said: ‘The ©
engineering faculty wants a nuclear reactor. ‘The —
arts faculty needs a new theater. The students want
new dormitories and a bigger psychiatric consulting ~
office. The alumni want a better faculty and a new ~
gymnasium. And they all expect me to produce :

these out of a single office with one secretary and a
small filing cabinet, while maintaining friendly con-
tacts with them all. I need a magic lantern.”’

|

ee ee

:

;

4

 

Another president, at a small college in New —

England, said: ‘““The faculty and students claim
they don’t see much of me any more. Some have

become vituperative and others have wondered if I ©

really still care about them and the learning process.

I was a teacher for 18 years. I miss them—and my —

scholarly work—terribly.”’

HE ROLE AND PACE of the professors have —
changed almost as much as the administrators’, if —
not more, in the new period of rapid growth and

radical change.

For the most part, scholars are no longer regarded

as ivory-tower dreamers, divorced from society. —
They are now important, even indispensable, men —

and women, holding keys to international security, -

economic growth, better health, and cultural ex-
cellence. For the first time in decades, most of their

salaries are approaching respectability. (The na-_
tional average of faculty salaries has risen from —
$5,311 in 1950 to $9,317 in 1965, according to a_
survey conducted by the American Association of
University Professors.) ‘The best of them are pur-
sued by business, government, and other colleges.
They travel frequently to speak at national con-—
ferences on modern music or contemporary urban -

-

 

 

 

tt

 

 

 

———

Tl

iy

 

 

 

 

 

problems, and to international conferences on par-
ticle physics or literature.

In the classroom, they are seldom the professors of
the past: the witty, cultured gentlemen and ladies—
or tedious pedants—who know Greek, Latin, French,
literature, art, music, and history fairly well. They
are now earnest, expert specialists who know alge-
braic geometry or international monetary economics
—and not much more than that—exceedingly well.
Sensing America’s needs, a growing number of
them are attracted to research, and many prefer it
to teaching. And those who are not attracted are
often pushed by an academic “rating system”’
which, in effect, gives its highest rewards and pro-
motions to people who conduct research and write
about the results they achieve. ‘‘Publish or perish”’
is the professors’ succinct, if somewhat overstated,
way of describing how the system operates.

Since many of the scholars—and especially the
youngest instructors—are more dedicated and ‘‘fo-
cused” than their predecessors of yesteryear, the
allegiance of professors has to a large degree shifted
from their college and university to their academic
discipline. A radio-astronomer first, a Siwash pro-
fessor second, might be a fair way of putting it.

There is much talk about giving control of the
universities back to the faculties, but there are strong
indications that, when the opportunity is offered,
the faculty members don’t want it. Academic deci-
sion-making involves committee work, elaborate in-
vestigations, and lengthy deliberations—time away
from their laboratories and books. Besides, many
professors fully expect to move soon, to another
college or to industry or government, so why bother
about the curriculum or rules of student conduct?
Then, too, some of them plead an inability to take
part in broad decision-making since they are expert
in only one limited area. “‘I’m a geologist,’’ said one
professor in the West. ‘“‘What would I know about
admissions policies or student demonstrations?”’

Professors have had to narrow their scholarly in-
terests chiefly because knowledge has advanced to a
point where it is no longer possible to master more
than a tiny portion of it. Physicist Randall Whaley,
who is now chancellor of the University of Missouri
at Kansas City, has observed: “There is about
100 times as much to know now as was avail-
able in 1900. By the year 2000, there will be over
1,000 times as much.” (Since 1950 the number of
scholarly periodicals has increased from 45,000 to

95,000. In science alone, 55,000 journals, 60,000
books, and 100,000 research monographs are pub-
lished annually.) In such a situation, fragmentation
seems inevitable.

Probably the most frequently heard cry about
professors nowadays, even at the smaller colleges, is
that they are so research-happy that they neglect
teaching. ‘Our present universities have ceased to be
schools,” one graduate student complained in the
Harvard Educational Review last spring. Similar charges
have stirred pulses at American colleges and uni-
versities Coast to coast, for the past few years.

No one can dispute the assertion that research
has grown. The fact is, it has been getting more and
more attention since the end of the Nineteenth
Century, when several of America’s leading uni-
versities tried to break away from the English col-
lege tradition of training clergymen and gentlemen,
primarily through the classics, and to move toward
the German university tradition of rigorous scholar-
ship and scientific inquiry. But research has pro-
ceeded at runaway speed since 1950, when the
Federal Government, for military, political, eco-
nomic, and public-health reasons, decided to sup-
port scientific and technological research in a major
way. In 1951 the Federal Government spent $295
million in the colleges and universities for research
and development. By 1965 that figure had grown
‘to $1.7 billion. During the same period, private
philanthropic foundations also increased their sup-
port substantially.

At bottom, the new emphasis on research is due
to the university’s becoming ‘‘a prime instrument
of national purpose,”’ one of the nation’s chief means
of maintaining supremacy in a long-haul cold war.
The emphasis is not likely to be lessened. And more
and more colleges and universities will feel its
effects.

UT WHAT ABOUT education—the teaching
of young people—that has traditionally been the
basic aim of our institutions of higher learning?

Many scholars contend, as one university presi-
dent put it, that ‘‘current research commitments
are far more of a positive aid than a detriment to
teaching,”’ because they keep teachers vital and at

The push to do research:
Does ut affect teaching?

the forefront of knowledge. ‘‘No one engaged in re-
search in his field is going to read decade-old lec-
ture notes to his class, as many of the so-called ‘great
professors’ of yesterday did,” said a teacher at a uni-
versity in Wisconsin.

Others, however, see grave problems resulting
from the great emphasis on research. For one thing,
they argue, research causes professors to spend less
time with students. It also introduces a disturbing
note of competitiveness among the faculty. One
physicist has put it this way:

‘I think my professional field of physics is getting
too hectic, too overcrowded; there is too much pres-
sure for my taste. ... Research is done under tre-
mendous pressure because there are so many people
after the same problem that one cannot afford to
relax. If you are working on something which 10
other groups are working on at the same time, and
you take a week’s vacation, the others beat you
and publish first. So it is a mad race.”

Heavy research, others argue, may cause pro-
fessors to concentrate narrowly on their discipline
and to see their students largely in relation to it
alone. Numerous observers have pointed to the
professors’ shift to more demanding instruction, but
also to their more technical, pedantic teaching.
They say the emphasis in teaching may be moving
from broad understanding to factual knowledge,
from community and world problems to each disci-
pline’s tasks, from the releasing of young people’s
minds to the cramming of their minds with the stuff
of each subject. A professor in Louisiana has said,
‘In modern college teaching there is much more
of the ‘how’ than the ‘why.’ Values and fundamen-
tals are too interdisciplinary.”’

And, say the critics, research focuses attention on
the new, on the frontiers of knowledge, and tends to
forget the history of a subject or the tradition of
intellectual inquiry. This has wrought havoc with
liberal arts education, which seeks to introduce
young people to the modes, the achievernents, the

DRAWINGS BY ARNO STERNGLASS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

— _K

consequences, and the difficulties of intellectual in-
quiry in Western civilization. Professor Maure
Goldschmidt, of Oregon’s Reed College, has said:

‘The job of a liberal arts college is to pass on
the heritage, not to push the frontiers. Once you get
into the competitive research market, the demands
become incompatible with good teaching.”

Another professor, at a university in Florida, has
said:

‘Our colleges are supposed to train intelligent
citizens who will use knowledge wisely, not just
intellectual drones. To do this, the colleges must
convey to students a sense of where we’ve come
from, where we are now, and where we are going —
as well as what it all means—and not just inform
them of the current problems of research in each
held.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Somewhat despairingly, Professor Jacques Barzun
recently wrote:

‘“Nowadays the only true believers in the liberal
arts tradition are the men of business. They really
prefer general intelligence, literacy, and adapt-
ability. They know, in the first place, that the con-
ditions of their work change so rapidly that no col-
lege courses can prepare for them. And they also
know how often men in mid-career suddenly feel
that their work is not enough to sustain their
spirits.”

Many college and university teachers readily ad-
mit that they may have neglected, more than they
should, the main job of educating the young. But
they just as readily point out that their role is
changing, that the rate of accumulation of knowl-
edge is accelerating madly, and that they are ex-
tremely busy and divided individuals. They also
note that it is through research that more money,
glory, prestige, and promotions are best attained
in their profession.

For some scholars, research is also where the
highest excitement and promise in education are to
be found. ‘‘With knowledge increasing so rapidly,
research is the only way to assure a teacher that
he is keeping ahead, that he is aware of the really
new and important things in his field, that he can be
an effective teacher of the next generation,” says one
advocate of research-cum-instruction. And, for some,
research is the best way they know to serve the
nation. ‘“‘Aren’t new ideas, more information, and
new discoveries most important to the United States
if we are to remain free and prosperous?”’ asks a pro-
fessor in the Southwest. ‘‘We’re in a protracted war
with nations that have sworn to bury us.”’

HE STUDENTS, Of course, are perplexed by
the new academic scene.

They arrive at college having read the catalogues
and brochures with their decade-old paragraphs
about “‘the importance of each individual’? and
‘the many student-faculty relationships’ —and hav-
ing heard from alumni some rosy stories about the
leisurely, friendly, pre-war days at Quadrangle U.
On some campuses, the reality almost lives up to
the expectations. But on others, the students are

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The students react
to “the system” wath
frerce independence

dismayed to discover that they are treated as merely
parts of another class (unless they are geniuses, star
athletes, or troublemakers), and that the faculty
and deans are extremely busy. For administrators,
faculty, and alumni, at least, accommodating to the
new world of radical change has been an evolu-
tionary process, to which they have had a chance to
adjust somewhat gradually; to the students, arriving
fresh each year, it comes as a severe shock.

Forced to look after themselves and gather broad
understanding outside of their classes, they form
their own community life, with their own values
and methods of self-discovery. Piqued by apparent
adult indifference and cut off from regular contacts
with grown-up dilemmas, they tend to become more
outspoken, more irresponsible, more independent.
Since the amount of financial aid for students has
tripled since 1950, and since the current condition
of American society is one of affluence, many stu-
dents can be independent in expensive ways: twist
parties in Florida, exotic cars, and huge record col-
lections. They tend to become more sophisticated
about those things that they are left to deal with on
their own: travel, religion, recreation, sex, politics.

Partly as a reaction to what they consider to be
adult dedication to narrow, selfish pursuits, and
partly in imitation of their professors, they have
become more international-minded and _ socially
conscious. Possibly one in 10 students in some
colleges works off-campus in community service
projects— tutoring the poor, fixing upslum dwellings,
or singing and acting for local charities. ‘To the
consternation of many adults, some students have
become a force for social change, far away from
their colleges, through the Peace Corps in Bolivia
or a picket line in another state. Pressured to be
brighter than any previous generation, they fight to

feel as useful as any previous generation. A student

‘*T don’t want to study, study,

from Iowa said:
study, just to fill a hole in some government or
industrial bureaucracy.”

The students want to work out a new style of
academic life, just as administrators and faculty
members are doing; but they don’t know quite
how, as yet. They are burying the rah-rah stuff, but
what is to take its place? They protest vociferously
against whatever they don’t like, but they have no
program of reform. Restless, an increasing number
of them change colleges at least once during their
undergraduate careers. [hey are like the two char-

acters in Jack Kerouac’s On the Road. ‘We got to

 

 

 

TD Lam if WN
4, Mj aa LY, ee

Fy aN

\{

Ce)

Wh

a
OM
me

.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

go and never stop till we get there,” says one.
*““Where are we going, man?” asks the other. ‘“‘I
don’t know, but we gotta go,” is the answer.

As with any group in swift transition, the students
are often painfully confused and contradictory. A
Newsweek poll last year that asked students whom
they admired most found that many said ‘“‘Nobody”
or gave names like Y. A. Tittle or Joan Baez. It is
no longer rare to find students on some campuses
dressed in an Ivy League button-down shirt, farm-
er’s dungarees, a French beret, and a Roman beard
—all at once. ‘They argue against large bureaucra-
cies, but most turn to the industrial giants, not to
smaller companies or their own business ventures,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The alumni lament: We don’t recognize the place

when they look for jobs after graduation. They are
critical of religion, but they desperately seek people,
courses, and experiences that can reveal some mean-
ing to them. An instructor at a university in Con-
necticut says: “The chapel is fairly empty, but the
religion courses are bulging with students.”

Caught in the rapids of powerful change, and
left with only their own resources to deal with the
rush, the students tend to feel helpless—often too
much so. Sociologist David Riesman has noted:
‘The students know that there are many decisions
out of their conceivable control, decisions upon
which their lives and fortunes truly depend. But...
this truth, this insight, is over-generalized, and,
being believed, it becomes more and more ‘true’.”’
Many students, as a result, have become grumblers
and cynics, and some have preferred to withdraw
into private pads or into early marriages. However,
there are indications that some students are learning
how to be effective—if only, so far, through the
largely negative methods of disruption.

F THE FACULTIES AND THE STUDENTS are per-
plexed and groping, the alumni of many American
colleges and universities are positively dazed. Every-
thing they have revered for years seems to be crum-
bling: college spirit, fraternities, good manners,
freshman customs, colorful lectures, singing, humor
magazines and reliable student newspapers, long
talks and walks with professors, daily chapel, din-
ners by candlelight in formal dress, reunions that
are fun. As one alumnus in Tennessee said, ‘‘They
keep asking me to give money to a place I no longer
recognize.” Assaulted by many such remarks, one
development officer in Massachusetts countered:
“Look, alumni have seen America and the world
change. When the old-timers went to school there
were no television sets, few cars and fewer airplanes,
no nuclear weapons, and no Red China. Why
should colleges alone stand still? It’s partly our
fault, though. We traded too long on sentiment

rather than information, allegiance, and purpose.”

What some alumni are beginning to realize is
that they themselves are changing rapidly. Owing
to the recent expansion of enrollments, nearly one
half of all alumni and alumnae now are persons
who have been graduated since 1950, when the
period of accelerated change began. At a number
of colleges, the song-and-revels homecomings have
been turned into seminars and discussions about
space travel or African politics. And at some institu-
tions, alumni councils are being asked to advise on
and, in some cases, to help determine parts of
college policy.

Dean David B. Truman, of New York’s Columbia
College, recently contended that alumni are going
to have to learn to play an entirely new role vis-a-vis
their alma maters. The increasingly mobile life of
most scholars, many administrators, and a growing
number of students, said the dean, means that, if
anyone is to continue to have a deep concern for the
whole life and future of each institution, “that focus
increasingly must come from somewhere outside
the once-collegial body of the faculty’—namely,
from the alumni. |

However, even many alumni are finding it harder
to develop strong attachments to one college or
university. Consider the person who goes to, say,
Davidson College in North Carolina, gets a law
degree from the University of Virginia, marriesa girl
who was graduated from Wellesley, and settles in
Albuquerque, New Mexico, where he pays taxes
to help support the state university. (He pays Fed-
eral taxes, too, part of which goes, through Govern-
ment grants and contracts, to finance work at
hundreds of other colleges and universities.)

Probably the hardest thing of all for many alumni
—indeed, for people of all loyalties—to be recon-
ciled to is that we live in a new era of radical change,
a new time when almost nothing stands still for
very long, and when continual change is the normal
pattern of development. It is a terrible fact to face
openly, for it requires that whole chunks of our
traditional way of thinking and behaving be revised.

Take the standard chore of defining the purpose
of any particular college or university. Actually,

some colleges and universities are now discarding
the whole idea of statements of purpose, regarding
their main task as one of remaining open-ended to
accommodate the rapid changes. ‘“There is no single
‘end’ to be discovered,” says California’s Clark
Kerr. Many administrators and professors agree.
But American higher education is sufficiently vast
and varied to house many—especially those at small
colleges or church-related institutions—who differ
with this view.

What alumni and alumnae will have to find, as
will everyone connected with higher education, are
some new norms, some novel patterns of behavior
by which to navigate in this new, constantly inno-
vating society.

For the alumni and alumnae, then, there must be
an ever-fresh outlook. They must resist the inclina-
tion to howl at every departure that their alma mater
makes from the good old days. They need to see their
alma mater and its role in a new light. To remind
professors about their obligations to teach students
in a stimulating and broadening manner may be a
continuing task for alumni; but to ask the faculty
to return to pre-1950 habits of leisurely teaching
and counseling will be no service to the new aca-
demic world.

In order to maintain its greatness, to keep ahead,
America must innovate. To innovate, it must con-
duct research. Hence, research is here to stay. And
so is the new seriousness of purpose and the intensity

of academic work that today is so widespread on
the campuses.

Alumni could become a greater force for keeping
alive at our universities and colleges a sense of joy,
a knowledge of Western traditions and values, a
quest for meaning, and a respect for individual per-
sons, especially young persons, against the mounting
pressures for sheer work, new findings, mere facts,
and bureaucratic depersonalization. In a period of
radical change, they could press for some enduring
values amidst the flux. In a period focused on the
new, they could remind the colleges of the virtues
of teaching about the past.

But they can do this only if they recognize the
existence of rapid change as a new factor in the life
of the nation’s colleges; if they ask, ‘““How and what
kind of change?” and not, ** Why change?”

“Tt isn’t easy,” said an alumnus from Utah. ‘‘It’s
like asking a farm boy to get used to riding an
escalator all day long.”’

One long-time observer, the editor of a distin-
guished alumni magazine, has put it this way:

‘““We—all of us—need an entirely new concept
of higher education. Continuous, rapid change is
now inevitable and normal. If we recognize that
our colleges from now on will be perpetually chang-
ing, but not in inexorable patterns, we shall be able
to control the direction of change more intelligently.
And we can learn to accept our colleges on a wholly
new basis as centers of our loyalty and affection.”

 

The report on this and the preceding 15
pages is the product of a cooperative en-
deavor in which scores of schools, colleges,
and universities are taking part. It was pre-
pared under the direction of the group listed
below, who form EDITORIAL PROJECTS FOR
EDUCATION, a non-profit organization associ-
ated with the American Alumni Council.

_ DENTON BEAL
Carnegie Institute of Technology
DAVID A. BURR
The University of Oklahoma
DAN ENDSLEY
Stanford University
MARALYN 0. GILLESPIE
Swarthmore College

CHARLES M. HELMKEN
American Alumni Council

GEORGE CG. KELLER
Columbia University
ALAN W. MAC CARTHY
The University of Michigan
JOHN I, MATTILL
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
KEN METZLER
The University of Oregon
RUSSELL OLIN
The University of Colorado

JOHN W. PATON
Wesleyan University

CORBIN GWALTNEY
Executive Editor

Naturally, in a report of such length and
scope, not all statements necessarily reflect
the views of all the persons involved, or of
their institutions. Copyright © 1966 by Edi-
torial Projects for Education, Inc. All rights
reserved; no part may be reproduced without
the express permission of the editors. Printed
in U.S.A.

ROBERT L. PAYTON
Washington University
ROBERT M. RHODES

The University of Pennsylvania

STANLEY SAPLIN

New York University
VERNE A. STADTMAN

The University of California
FREDERIC A. STOTT

Phillips Academy, Andover

FRANK J. TATE
The Ohio State University

CHARLES E. WIDMAYER
Dartmouth College
DOROTHY F. WILLIAMS
Simmons College
RONALD A. WOLK
The Johns Hopkins University
ELIZABETH BOND WOOD
Sweet Briar College
CHESLEY WORTHINGTON
Brown University

JOHN A. CROWL
Associate Editor

 

 

 

 

fn honor guard of VMI cadets stands at attention as CLARENCE B. MANNING. ‘67, tells of

 

 

the heroic World War 1] service of KIFrFIN

Yares ROCKWELL, ‘19. In the background are, l-r, Cow. PAUL Ayres ROCKWELL, ‘12, brother of the late pioneer airman; CoL. ROLAND
Cuarcrs of the French Embassy staf}; and President Frep C. Corr.

Kiffin Rockwell, ’?13, Is Honored
At Sigma Phi Epsilon Anniversary

SOLEMN AND COLORFUL tribute
A to one ol the first Americans
io die in World War I was offered
by the Washington and Lee chapter
ol Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity at
special ceremonies in Lee Chapel
April 24.

ver 100 alumni, students, and fac-

on Sunday afternoon,
ulty attended.

\ memorial plaque honoring Lt.
\ifin Yates Rockwell, ‘13, one of
he original fighter pilots in the
famed Lafayette Escadrille, was re-
dedicated in the presence of repre-
sentatives of Washington and Lee
University and Virginia Military
institute. Rockwell was a VMI ca-

PRING 1966

By STEVEN R, SAUNDERS, '68

det before transferring to Washing-
ton and Lee, where he was a
member of the class of 1913 and
a brother in Sigma Phi Epsilon.
He was killed in a 1916 aerial dog-
fight over Alsace, France, the sec-
ond known American to die in the
war.

Colonel Roland Charles, assist-
ant air attache to the French Em-
bassy in Washington, D.C., deliv-
ered the eulogy to Lt. Rockwell
in behalf of the Republic of France.
Praising Rockwell’s courage and

stubborn determination, Colonel
Charles said: “His ideals were of

the finest and most noble kind. and

he died for them in the service of
France. We acknowledge with grat-
itude our debt to him.” Charles
commanded the Free French Lafay-
ette Air Squardon in World Wai
II.

An honor guard from Virginia
Military Institute flanked the po-
dium during the ceremonies. Clar-
ence B. Manning, a junior from
Manakin-Sabot, Va., and fraternity
president, spoke on the life of Kif-
Rockwell,

many military decorations awarded

fin Yates noting the
to the flyer, including the French
Legion of Honor and the Croix de
Guerre with four palms.

President Fred C. Cole partici
pated in the ceremonies, as. did
VMI Chaplain Robert Wilson.

Colonel Paul Ayres Rockwell,
‘12, of Asheville, N. C., Kiffin’s old-
er brother, joined with Colonel
Charles to place a wreath at the
plaque, which is set into the north-
eastern wall of the Chapel, conclud-
ing the program. Colonel Rockwell
attended Washington and Lee and,
like his brother, was a member of
Sigma Phi Epsilon and an early
volunteer with the French forces in
World War L.

Colonel Rockwell made an equal-
ly glorious name for himself, win-
ning a score of decorations from the
United States, France, and Spain,
including the French Legion of
Honor, and three Croix de Guerre.
Colonel Rockwell fought in both
World War I and the 1925 Rif War
in Morocco with the French For-
eign Legion, and then took part in
World War II with the U.S. Army
Air Forces. He is now 77 years old
and retired.

The Rockwell plaque was orig-
inally placed in Lee Chapel by the
SPE fraternity in the spring of
1917. Thomas M. Stubbs, ‘19, and
the late Henry J. Blackford, ‘17,
penned the inscription. Only a
handful of people attended those
ceremonies, at which Stubbs’ moth-
er, the late Mrs. Lillian Hoyt
Stubbs, of Sumter, S. C., unveiled
the plaque.

The rededication ceremonies
were part of a busy weekend
program commemorating the 6oth
anniversary of the founding of
Sigma Phi Epsilon’s chapter at
Washington and Lee. Beginning on
Saturday afternon, April 23, with
an open house and cocktail party
in the chapter residence at 110 West
Preston Street, the anniversary cel-
ebration ran through Sunday alfter-
noon.

A banquet for alumni, under-
graduates, and guests was held in
Evans Dining Hall on Saturday
night. Andy D. Smith, a senior from

22

Chase City, Va., and former chapter
president, served as master of cere-
Smith and Donald _ J.
Lineback, a senior from Winston-

monies.

Salem, N. C., were co-chairmen for
the weekend.
Three speakers
ninety persons present on the
theme of commemoration, “Vir-
ginia Epsilon: Yesterday, ‘Today,
and Tomorrow,” which was also the
title of a 5,000-word chapter his-

addressed the

tory printed in conjunction with
the 6oth anniversary observance.
Colonel Rockwell commented on
the chapter as it was “Yesterday”;
William Hartman, a junior from
Honolulu, Hawaii, and chapter
vice-president, spoke about ‘To-
day”; and freshman James C. Ham-
ill, Jr., an outstanding debate team
Oklahoma = City,
himself to the

member from
Okla.,

prospects for Tomorrow.”

addressed

C. Maynard ‘Turner of Cincin-
nati, national grand president of
the fraternity, also spoke. He pre-
sented the chapter with its original
1igo6 charter, which had been lost
in 1940 and was uncovered recent-
ly in the attic of the fraternity’s
national headquarters in Rich-
mond. Andy Smith delivered a brief
talk about the chapter’s David L.
Dunlap Scholarship Fund, named
for the W&L law student who spark-
ed the reactivation of the chapter
in 1958 after it had been absent
from the campus for eighteen years.
Alumnus Harvey Smith, '24, of New
Orleans concluded the banquet
with a few remarks.

An initiation ceremony was pre-
sented for the alumni later that
night, at which Howard L. Boetsch,
Jr., a freshman from Philadelphia,
was initiated into the fraternity.
Wives and other guests were en-
tertained at a reception by Mrs.
Jo D. Brett, the fraternity’s house-
mother, during the initiation rites.

Planning for the weekend started
in October 1965, when Andy Smith
was chapter president. All arrange-
ments were handled by undergradu-
ate workers. The committee con-

sisted of sophomores Ulric C. Ber-
ard, McLean, Va.; J. Coleman
Blake, Richmond, Va.; D. John
Godehn, Hendersonville, N. C.;
James H. Lowe, Towson, Md.; and
Steven R. Saunders, Elmont, N. Y.

The University was represented
at the banquet by Dr. Edward C.
Atwood, Dean of Students, and
Mrs. Atwood, who also attended
the Lee Chapel ceremonies. Dr.
William W. Pusey, Dean of the Col-
lege, and Mrs. Pusey, and President
and Mrs. Cole also attended the
plaque rededication as did Alumni
Secretary William C. Washburn.

Founded at the University of
Richmond in 1g01, Sigma Phi Epsi-
lon established its Virginia Epsi-
lon chapter at Washington and
Lee in 1906. The chapter had its
start as the “Saturday Night Club”
which met in the University-oper-
ated dining hall on Washington
Street, “The Inn.” The building is
now privately owned and, with the
dining hall divided into student
apartments, is Operated as a room-
ing house called “The Dutch Inn.”

Insolvency caused by the Depres-
sion and competition with other
fraternities forced the chapter out
of existence in 1940. It was reacti-
vated by six law students in 1958,
led by the late David L. Dunlap,
and the charter was returned in
1960. Last year it was chosen the
outstanding chapter among Sigma
Phi Epsilon’s 162 chapters nation-
wide.

The chapter has occupied its
present residence on Preston Street
since September 1963, after three
years at 109 Myers Street. Built
originally for Colonel John Preston,
one of the founders of Virginia Mil-
itary Institute, the historic home
is over 190 years old. Colonel Pres-
ton was married to the second
daughter of Washington College
President George Junkin, whose
other daughter married a devout
young engineering instructor at
VMI named ‘Thomas Jonathan
Jackson, latter to be dubbed
“Stonewall.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

H. G. Fahncke
Reigns as Rex
At Mardi Gras

HE ONCE-IN-A-LIFETIME honor ol
Tite as Rex, King of Carni-
val at New Orleans’ world famous
\lardi Gras, came to Herbert Grant
jahncke, ‘30, an honor graduate of
\Vashington and Lee and a distin-
eulshed New Orleans businessman
and civic leader.

For twenty-four hours, Jahncke
was 1966 “Monarch of Merriment”
tor several hundred thousand New
Orleans residents and visitors that
newsmen said was the greatest Mar-
di Gras throng ever.

Jahncke’s reigning day fell on
february 22, and brought to a close
the annual pre-Lenten revels of
Mardi Gras. As Rex, Jahncke led
the 23-float Rex Parade through
downtown New Orleans and later
ruled over the Rex Ball that end-
ed the Mardi Gras season.

Pie Dufour, popular columnist in
New Orleans’ States-Item, described
Jahncke’s Rex in these words:

“And what a Rex! Herbert Jahn-
cke carried his natural gentility and
charm of private life into his royal
duties as ‘King for a day.’... For
many years, Rex has been genial,
warm, friendly, animated no matter
what his name was. Herbert Jahn-
cke as Rex of 1966 followed in this
tradition. The crowd loved him be-
cause he clearly showed that he
loved the crowd. When he had
public utterances to make, he made
them gracefully and graciously.”

The role of Rex is the most covet-
ed of all at Mardi Gras. The
“Krewe of Rex” annually selects
one of its members on the basis of
his popularity, his social and busi-
ness prestige, and his contributions
of time and effort to improve the
City of New Orleans.

Jahncke, the g5th Rex to wear

SPRING 1966

. a | .
Dedkttt he

 

His Majesty Rex, Hersert G. JAHNCKE, 30, acknowledges the acclaim of the Madri Gras

throng in New Orleans in the photo above, while below, he sits in regal splendor on

the throne at the gala Rex ball. His queen was Miss Curistine PHitties WestreLpT of
New Orleans.

 

the carnival crown, said the exper-
ience was one of the “most memor-
able and glorious days of my life.”

When he was chosen king,

Jahncke had to keep his selection a

complete secret from all but his
wife and secretary, who assisted him
in preparing for the arduous day-
long reign. He wanted far-flung
members of his family to be on

hand, so he called them to New
Orleans on the pretext of a family
business conference. “I didn’t fool
them one little bit,” he said.
Among those who joined in hon-
oring Jahncke was Herbert G.
Jahncke, Jr., Palo Alto,
Calif., who, like his father, is a Phi
Beta Kappa graduate of Washing-

‘63, of

ton and Lee.

Class Notes

1892

Iwo Washington and Lee classmates and
members of the American Bar Associa-
tion were honored at a luncheon on
March gist at the Everglades Hotel in
Miami, Florida. Inscribed gold certificates
were presented to Freperick H., HUDSON,
‘go B.A. and ‘92 LL.B., and JouHN M.
Woops, ‘92 LL.B. In presenting the
awards ABA President, Edward W. Kuhn
of Memphis, said, “Few in our profession
are able to achieve such exemplary record
of long service to the bar and public.”
Ihe veteran lawyers are among only 199
in the nation qualified for the award
based upon a half century or more ol
membership in the legal profession. Judge
Hudson, said to be the oldest member
of the Dade County Bar, is still in active
practice. He was a member ofl the
Florida State Senate from 1905 to 1919
and President of the Senate from = 1g09
to 1gti. Mr. Wood, because of ill health,
was unable to be present for the oc-
casion. He, too, has been a member of the
ABA for 53 years.

1902

Dre. WirntAmM ‘THomas Etiis retired in
ig6o0 as Chief Surgeon of Stetson Hospital
in Philadelphia after fifty-one years of
service. He is now Emeritus Surgeon. In
a recent note, Dr. Ellis comments that
he received his medical degree from the
University of Pennsylvania exactly sixty
years ago this June, 1966.

Now over 85 years old, Ricuarp P. DANIEI
still goes to his office each morning and
remains active in his business.

1903

BERNARD Bopss Suivery, a Marion, Indi-
ana, attorney, has just published a book
entitled The Thorns of Pleasure, by the
Parthenon Press. The book is a story of
Rome and Alaric the Great. Much ot the
contents is in the form of dialogue which
contributes greatly to its readability.

1904

\t the age of eighty-two A. DAwson
RUNDLE is still active as a real estate
broker handling farms and _ estates in
Marvland and Virginia. He makes his
home in Bethesda, Maryland.

1909

Crowrtt T. DAWKINS is hale and hearty.
He wrote in February that he is playing
the Florida State Seniors Golf Tourna
ment in Lampa.

Ihe General Assembly in Virginia has
named Jupce H. Lresrek Hooker for his
eighth term on the State Corporation

Commission. He is presently serving un-
der his twelfth governor.

1910

Jor R. BLAckBuRN, long time public ser-
vant and resident of Charleston, West
Virginia, will retire in June, 1966, from
the State Road Commission.

1913

\fter more than 50 years in the practice
of law, Morey DUNN has retired and lives
in Palm Beach, Florida. Forty years of his
practice was in Palm Beach.

1914

Dr. DANtEL C. BUCHANAN, retired Pres-
byterian minister and also a man of
wide experience working with the United
States government, has written a book en-
titled, Japanese Proverbs and Sayings.
Dr. Buchanan has a rare understanding
of the Japanese people. The book pic-
tures the philosophy of the East and Dr.
Buchanan shows how many oriental views
are similar to those of the West. The
book is published by the Oklahoma Uni-
versity Press. Shortly after graduation,
Dr. Buchanan went to Japan to teach. He
returned in World War I and volunteered
for service in the Army. Following the
\rmistice he went to McCormick ‘Theo-
logical Seminary. In 1921 he was com-
missioned a missionary to Japan and
was active in this field for 20 years.
\fter World War IL he returned to this
country and became assistant pastor of
the Tacoma Park Presbyterian Church
and in 1958 retired, His book is priced
al 55-95.

1915

Dr. L. Necson Bett from Montreat, N. C.,

 

 

Bo.

has been awarded the George Washington
Honor Medal from the Freedom Founda
tion. The award was made at the 17th
awards ceremony at Valley Forge, Penn
svivania. Dr. Bell, retired surgeon who
served 25 years as a medical missionary
in China, was cited for an editorial en
titled “Danger Signals.” He received an
honorary LL.D. degree from Kings Col
lege. His newest book just published by
Wm. B. Erdmans is entitled “Convictions
to Live By.”

1916

\fter leaving W&L, Joun B. Moore ser
ed with the National Guard 1916-17 on
the border. After WW I he went back to
the University of South Carolina where
he received a B.A. degree in 1927 and
an M.A. degree in 1932. Moore has taught
for forty-three years with the major time
at Richmond Academy, Georgia State
College, Georgia Tech, and other public
and private schools. At present he is
doing private tutoring.

In 1920 Joun W. May, Jr., left the prac
tice of law and went into the laundry
business. In 1940 he began selling pro
ducts and equipment to the laundry and
dry cleaning trade. He still continues in
this business in Indianapolis, Indiana.

1918

Phe Roanoke Gas Company has won top
honors for the best advertising campaign
in community service. EF. V. Bowyer, vice-
president fo1 sales, accepted the award
on behalf of the company. The award
is made by Southern Gas Corporation
after competition among 100 member
companies.

RICHARD BRApFoRD, '67, left, president of Delta Upsilon, presents a special plaque to

EMMetr W. POINDEXTER, “20, in recognition of his many years of dedicated service to

Washington and Lee and to the fraternity’s chapter there. The plaque will be placed

on the wall of the chapter library named in honor of Poindexter. MRs. POINDEXTER
smiles he approval of the entire affair.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1919

\ recent visitor to. the campus was
PHOMAS M. Prrrs who was on his way
to a convention of the National League
of Cities in Washington. Mr. Pitts is
Mayor of Indianola, Mississippi.

1923

Ferrum College in) Virginia announced
the formation of a new division of social
science and education and. the appoint-
ment of FRANKLIN B. Hurt as its chair-
man. Mr. Hurt taught at Ferrum College
from 1927 to 1929 and was a member of
the Western Maryland College faculty for
thirty years before his retirement in 1965.
[he new post involves direction of in-
structions in history, political science, so-
ciology, psychology, and education.

1924

In April 1965, CHARLES A. Turwiter, was
appointed and is now serving as a mem-
ber of the Board of Law Examiners of
the State of West Virginia.

While on a recent visit to campus, Dorr
fUCKER reminisced about the _ football
series between the Generals and V.P.1.
and particularly the game played in
Lynchburg in the fall of 1920. Tucker had
come to W&L from West Virginia, and it
was his first college football season. The
ig20 game with V.P.I. was the eighteenth
of the series and ended with the score of
13-0 for the Generals. Tucker scored
both touchdowns—one on a run from
his left halfback position, the second by
receiving a pass from M. B. Mattox.

1925

Presently the ‘Transportation Assistant
in the Operating Department, KENNETH
\. Goope will retire from the C. & O.
Railway effective July 1, 1966. He has
devoted forty-one years of services to
the company. He makes his home in
Chagrin Falls, Ohio.

EARLI lL.
Pennsvivania

ANbREWS, president of the
Glass Sand Corporation,
nas been designated official nominee for
President of the American Society of
Civil Engineers, the oldest national engi-
neering professional society in the country.
\ir. Andrews joined his business firm in
1925 as a civil engineer and in 1963 be-
came president of the corporation. In
i903 Mr. Andrews was named “Centen-
nial Engineer” by the West Virginia So-
ciety of Professional Engineers. He has
served on numerous national committees
of ASCE, related professional organiza-
tions, and is director of the West Vir-
ginia Manufacturers Association. He _ is
a past president of the West Virginia
Section of ASCE.

\ieyeR Lu GoopMAn has been practicing

SPRING 1966

public accounting for the past forty years.
Receiving his C.P.A. in 1927, he is now
the senior partner in the firm of Good-
man, Norman, Goldmeir, & Ritter of Nor-
folk, Virginia.

Dr. E. S. BERLIN is now living in Oakland,
California, where he is employed by the
Veterans Administration.

WitnttAM FF. Smrra has) been national
treasurer of Phi Sigma Iota Society, an
honorary Romance Language Society,
since 1955. Between 1956-59 he was Editor
of the South Central Modern Language
Association Bulletin and a member of the
Executive Committee of this organization.
Bill served SCMLA as vice-president in
1962-63 and its president in 1963-64. From
1961-64 he was a member of the Executive
Committee of the American Association
of Veachers of Spanish and Portuguese.
Bill is now a full professor of Spanish
at Tulane University.

1928

Still an active rancher in Wichita Falls,
bexas, Vircin A. Fisuer boasts three
grandsons and two granddaughters.

Dr. Harry B. Neev is serving this yea
as president of the Minnesota Surgical
Society.

1929

J. E. “Buck” Battery writes that he and
V. A. FisHer, “28, of Wichita Falls plan
to do a lot of fishing at the Lake of
Pines the end of March.

Harry E. Gopwin is District Manager,
Memphis, Tennessee area, for the Her-
sig Company of Jacksonville, Florida. He
is still a jazz enthusiast and is Director of
the New Orleans Jazz Museum. He has
issued two new albums and has had seven
songs published.

 

EARLE TT.

\NDREWS, ‘25

Wacrer H. Witcox, president of the S. D.
Warren Co., advised the stockholders at a
recent meeting in Boston that the com-
pany’s sales were at a high level. Sales
of the office copy machine paper, first
marketed by S. D. Warren in 1965, are
expected to show marked gain this year.

1930

Enjoying good health and a fine com.
munity, Earw TP. Jones lives in Raleigh,
N. C., where he is president of Jesse
Jones Sausage Company. He is very active
in civic affairs holding memberships in
the Lions Club, and directorship in the
Y.M.C.A., the Rescue Mission, and the
Chamber of Commerce. Jones has a close
connection with the operation of the pro-
fessional baseball team in Raleigh, a club
athliated with the Pittsburgh Pirates. He
is a member of the first Presbyterian
Church where he is presently a member of
the Board of Deacons.

Herbert G. JAHNCKE was Rex for Mardi
Gras in New Orleans this year. The King
of the 1966 Carnival is president ol
Jahncke Services, Inc., of New Orleans.
Mr. Jahncke has also been named _ to
the Board of Governors of the Ochsner
Foundation Hospital. He is president of
the New Orleans Parks and Parkway
Commission and chairman of the Cul-
tural Attractions Fund. He has been or
is presently an officer of the Delgado
Museum of Art, the Tulane Forward
Fund, the United Fund, the Bureau of
Governmental Research, and the TB
Association of New Orleans.

1931

SAMUEL A. MILLINER, ]R., was appointed
secretary of the Executive Committee of
the duPont Company April 13, 1966. He
will continue as assistant secretary of
the company. Sam began with duPont in
1931 as a stenographer in the Explosives
Department, advancing to become office
manager in 1945. The following year
he was transferred to the Secretary’s De-
partment and was elected assistant sec-
retary of the company in 1950.

FRANK B. Levererre has recently taken
the position of Secretary and General
Manager of the Red Arrow Products, Inc.,
a manufacturer and international distri-
bution firm for automotive repair equip-
ment. He lives in Tallahassee, Florida.

ArtHur W. PHecps is an exchange pro-
fessor at the University of Exeter, Devon,
England, for the 1966-67 term. He will be
teaching in the Law School.

1932

JupGe CHarces E, Lone, JRr., has completed
thirteen years as Judge of the 134th
District Court of Texas, a court of gen-
eral trial jurisdiction, and he has been
renominated without opposition for an-
other four-year term. Judge Long’s son,
CHARLES E. Lone, III, graduated this past
June from Washington and Lee and an-

o

25

other son, Davin B., will be in his third
year at W&L this next September. Judge
Long is serving as vice-president of the
Parents’ Advisory Council.

In April of this year JouN RoBperr HORNOR
was elected Chairman of the Eastern Dis-
trict, Division of Production, of the
American Petroleum Institute. His area
comprises all the oil and natural gas
producing states east of the Mississippi.

1933

I. DeAte BLANCHARD is treasurer of the
Robertson Hardware Company, Inc., in
Portsmouth, Virginia. There is never a
dull moment in the Blanchard home with
a college son and two daughters, one in

 

»

college and the other a freshman in high
school.

Dr. Epwarp E. FERGUSON is president ol
the Middle Atlantic section of the Amer-
ican Urological Association.

JEROME FRAMPTOM, JR., is serving on the
Maryland State Board of Education. He
was vice president from 1952 to 1959 and
since then has served as president. An-
other W&L man, WILLIAM L. WILSON, JR.,
‘39, is now president.

1935

EUGENE EARL KRrEWSON has been elected
secretary and member of the board of
National Plate Grainers, Inc., Rockville,
Maryland.

1936

While chairman of the Athletic Commit-
tee of Bristol’s (Connecticut) Board of
Education, CHARLES A. SWEET was instru-

26

mental in getting the sport of wrestling
included in the secondary school system.
Ihe City of Bristol now has the Regional
Meet and has produced some State cham-
pions. Charlie’s oldest son graduated from
WSL in 1965; a second son is at Cor-
nell, and a third son, David, is starting
high school.

\ member of the Council for the West
Virginia State Medical Association, Dr.
KENNETH G. MACDONALD, Sr., is now the
lreasurer of the Association. He is also on
the budget committee for the United
Fund Campaign in Charleston, West Vir-
ginia.

1937

A protessor of European history at The

Pennsylvania State University, Kent Fors-
reR is the author of two books in the

past year: Recent Europe: A Twentieth
Century History, is published by the Ron-
ald Press; Man and Civilization, written
together with another professor, is pub-
lished by Lyons and Carnahan.

WiLtiAM C. WILBUR is professor of his-
tory and chairman of the History and
Social Sciences Division of Florida Pres-
byterian College in St. Petersburg, Florida.
He has received a grant for a sabbatical
leave for the second semester of the
1966-67 school year. He plans to take his
family, wife and two children, with him
to England and Scotland where he will
be doing research from February to
August of 1967.

The School Board President of Philadel-
phia has named Isapore M. Scorr, a
prominent lawyer and civic leader, the
chairman of a citizens’ committee to study

school financial needs. The committee

will be charged with the responsibility
of recommending sources of revenue fon
the cities public schools including ways
of raising money for the fiscal year. Mr.
Scott is a former manufacturer who cur-
rently directs a cooperative drive for a
new children’s hospital. He has been very
active in civic affairs in Philadelphia.

Since 1940, Epwin M. Marks has been
with Goldsmiths, Memphis’s leading de-
partment store. In June, 1965, he was
named executive vice-president.

PHEODORE M. PLOWvEN is residing with
his family this year in Bombay, India,
where he is establishing a new corporate
affiliation of his company, the Richard
son-Merrill, Inc., of New York City.

Dr. HArky M. Puitrorr, ‘38,
right, receives the medallion em-
blematic of the office of presi-
dent of Auburn University from
Gov. GEORGE C. WALLACE al
inaugural ceremonies held on
the Auburn campus in May. Dr.
PHILPOTI assumed his new
duties last September.

1938

Dr. Harry M. Puitrorr was formally in-
vested as the 11th president of Auburn
University on May 6, 1966, when Gov.
George C. Wallace presented a medallion,
emblematic of the office of president, to
the 49-year-old educator. Over 1,500 dele-
gates, representatives, faculty and friends
of Auburn witnessed the ceremony. Dr.
Philpott assumed his duties last Septem-
ber.

On December 9, 1965, ArTruur L. Bie
celebrated the 25th anniversary of his
ordination. He is presently the rector of
Emmanuel Episcopal Church in Little
Falls, New York.

GERALD M. LIVELY, a representative of
the Kansas City, Missouri, agency of the
National Life Insurance Company of
Vermont, has earned membership in the
firm’s tenth Presidents’ Club. He is also

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

eligible to attend the Club’s educational
conference in Miami Beach on March 16-
20. Lively is active in estate planning. He
is a member of the Kansas and Missouri
Bars and a former bank trust officer.

Celanese Plastics Company has announced
the appointment of Seru N. BAKER as Di-
rector of Personnel, with headquarters
in Newark, New Jersey. Baker joined
Celanese in May, 1965. Previously he had
been associated with The Monsanto Chem-
ical Company, Plax Corporation, and
Merck, Sharp & Dome in various person-
nel, industrial and public relations ca-
pacities. He was also a former news-
paper man, having worked on the New
York Daily News and Newsday.

1939

Roy S. THOMPSON, JR., is president and a
member of the Board of Directors of the
\merican Southern Insurance Companies.
[he company was formed in 1936 and has
been under the present management since
1953. The American Southern Insurance
Group, Inc., is a holding company owned
by fifty stockholders. They hold the
\merican Southern Insurance Company
ind the American Southern Life Insur-
ance Company. The operation is chiefly
in the State of Georgia and six South-
eastern states.

\fter ten years in public relations with
the First National Bank of Atlanta,
GEORGE E. Goopwin, JR., joined Bell and
Stanton, Inc., a public relations firm with
principal offices in New York and branch
offices in Atlanta, Chicago, and London.
in 1965 he was made vice president in
charge of the Atlanta office and _= in
January, 1966, was named director of the
Hirm.

CRAIG W. NEWMAN, part owner of a con-
struction firm, writes of some of the ad-
vantages of bachelorhood. His hobbies
are raising quarter horses and fishing the
zull stream off the Florida keys.

Uk. ARTHUR E, NIELSEN is practicing den-
‘istry in Hackensack, New Jersey. He and
his wife have three children, all in col-

1940

ELD Bropie, JR., took the position of Per-
sonnel Director at the Lakeland General
Hospital in Lakeland, Florida, in April,
1905. A present construction project will
sive the hospital a 750-bed capacity.
Xeid has a son, Steve,who is in the Navy
ind a daughter, Mary Louise, who is a
sophomore in college.

/RANKLIN ALLEN Nicuots who is with the
‘33rd Air Division at Seymour Johnson
\FB in North Carolina has just been se-
‘ected for promotion to Brigadier Gen-
eral.

HAL B. WArrerson will complete 25 years
service with duPont Company in August,

SPRING 1966

 

 

SerH N. BAKER, “38

1966. The Wattersons have a son and
daughter,

Lou PLUMMER is the new Pacific Coast
Regional Sales Manager for Fruehauf
lrailer Corporation of Orinda, California.
Lou has been closely associated with
the trucking business for most of his ca-
reer, serving at Fruehauf’s Atlanta, New
Orleans, Sacramento and Oakland branch-
es. He will now be available to all
Fruehauf customers in the Pacific Coast
area to help them improve their sales
and service.

RALPH HAusRATH is on sabbatical leave
this year doing graduate work on_ his
Ph.D. in education at the University of
North Carolina. Ralph is a teacher in the
Bay Shore, Long Island, schools.

THeEopORE A, BRUINSMA, °41

1941

At present GALe C. BoxiLt is the Director
of Toxicology at the Warner-Lambert Re-
search Institute in Morris Plains, New
Jersey.

In addition to his executive position with
Smith ‘Transfer and Storage Company in
Washington, D.C., Arruur C. Smirn, JR.,
has just recently been elected Treasure:
of the Montgomery Federal Savings and
Loan Association of Kensington, Maryland.

Recently EpwArp FRANzE, JR., was pro-
moted to the rank of associate professor
of English at Georgia State College in
Atlanta.

RALPH EDWARD KEEHN is a practicing at-
torney and the municipal judge of Seguin,
Texas. He is also Known as “Mr. Banjo”
of the Alamo City Jazz Band of San
Antonio, Texas, one of the finest “Dixie-
land” groups in the nation.

PHropore A. BruinsMaA, formerly execu
live vice-president of Capital for Tech
nical Industries, has joined Packard Bell
Company of Los Angeles, California, in
the newly created position of executive
vice-president. Since 1961, Ted has rep-
resented major corporations in financial
planning and _ fiscal control, acquisitions
and mergers. Previously, he was president,
owner, and executive officer of Systematics,
Inc., an East Coast electronics company;
general counsel and secretary of McCall
Corporation; and an attorney with the
New York firm of Whitman, Ransom and
Coulson.

Since last July, 1965, Ricnarp M. Herndon
has been assigned to the U.S. Embassy
in Seoul, Korea.

1942

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. SAM CLeNER, JR., a
daughter, Samantha, on March 8, 1966, in
Helena, Arkansas.

Howarp W. Dossins has been named to
join Morton L. Wallenstein as general
counsel of Wards Co., Inc. Both men are
partners in Wallerstein, Goode, Adamson
& Dobbins.

DANIEL C. Lewis has been elected vice
president of the Chesapeake Corporation
of Virginia. He is also a director of the
Chesapeake Bay Plywood Corporation.

Formerly an Executive Vice-President,
Ropert C. WALKER has been elected Pres-
ident of the Peninsula Bank & Trust Co.
of Williamsburg, Va.

VERNIE Guy CLATTERBAUGH is the sales
manager for the Philadelphia Branch of
the Panama Beaver Carbons and Ribbons.
The Clatterbaughs and their seven chil-
dren live in Springfield, Pennsylvania.

Dr. Ropert L. Pinck, Director of the De-

partment of Radiology of the Long Island
College Hospital, is the recipient of two

or

ey

Dk. Ropert L. PINCK, “42

recent honors: induction as a Fellow of
the American College of Radiology and
appointment to the Executive Committee
of the Medical Board of the Long Island
College Hospital. The fellowship degree
is conferred on the basis of outstanding
contribution and service to radiology. Dr.
Pinck is the first radiologist to be ap-
pointed to the LICH Executive Committee
since its formation in the mid-forties. In
addition, he was appointed early this year
to the Executive Committee of the North
Atlantic Life Insurance Company. One
of the original incorporators, Dr. Pinck
has been a member of the Board of Di-
rectors since the inception of the com-
pany in 1962.

1943

MORRISON R. NELSON is president of ‘To-
bacco Processors, Inc., of Wilson, North
Carolina, and is vice-president of South-
western Tobacco Company of Lexington,
Kentucky. Both concerns are subsidiaries
of Universal Leaf Tobacco Company of
Richmond, Virginia.

Beverty TL. Firzparrick was elected pres-
ident of the Association of Judges of
County and Municipal courts of Virginia.
He serves as president of the parents
council for Ferrum Junior College. Bey
is in his twelfth year as Chief Judge of
Roanoke’s Municipal Court and is par-
ticularly interested in young people's
problems, especially trathe safety educa-
tion.

RicHAarp E. Bastte has been named di-
rector of development for the Slater
School and Hospital Food Management
divisions of Automatic Retailers of Amer-
ica, Inc. He will be responsible for es-
tablishing new programs for recruitment,
training and development of ARA man.
agement personnel in the educational and

28

 

 

RICHARD E. BASILE, °48

health care food service fields. Mr. Basile
left the post of administrative dean at
Paul Smith’s College in Paul Smith, New
York, to join the ARA organization. He
was previously Operations and Personnel
Manager for the American Management
Association Academy in Saranac’ Lake,
New York.

Dr. R. FRANCIS JOHNSON became Vice-Dean
of the Episcopal Theological Seminary of
the Southwest of Austin, Texas, last Sep-
tember. In January he was installed as
dean of the newly completed chapel at
the Seminary when the Presiding Bishop
of the Episcopal Church was present for
the consecration of the chapel.

1944

The new president of CBS-TV_ is JOHN
I. ReYNOLDs, JR., a native of St. Louis.
John left Washington and Lee at the end
of his sophomore year to join the Army
Air Corps during the War. He served
with distinction as a pilot and instructor
on B-25’s. After the war, Reynolds set-
tled in Southern California where he
joined General Adverstising, Inc., as pro-
duction manager. In 1947 he returned
to St. Louis to join KXNOK radio and a
vear later went with Don Lee _ Broad-
casting systems in Los Angeles. Mr. Rey-
nolds first went with CBS in 1951 when
the Corporation bought the Don Lee
station. He has held several positions
and was most recently brought to New
York as Senior Vice-President. At 44
vears of age, the new CBS President
seems as trim as an athlete though he
says he misses the surfcasting, sail boating
and the sun of Hollywood. His two hob-
bies are painting and antique collecting.

Living in Highland’ Park, Illinois,

Howarp GREENBLATT is General Counsel
for Hart Schalfner and Marx of Chicago.

In September, 1966, WittiAM Gutuete will
become chairman of the English Depart-
ment in Richmond College, the men’s
division of the University of Richmond.
Phere are fourteen members in the de-
partment.

Recently resigning as vice-president of the
Security ‘Trust Co. of Miami, Florida,
Pau D. Barns, Jr. has now resumed
private practice of law with offices in
the Biscayne Lower.

Grorce TP. Woop is the Manager of Con-
sumer Products Sales, of the Royal Divis-
ion, De Sota Chemical Coatings, Inc., of
Chattanooga, Tennessee. He is married to
the former Mimi Etheridge and they have
one daughter at the University of Georgia
another daughter in prep school, and a
son in the eighth grade.

1945

ELLiorr S. SCHEWEL, prominent Ccommunt-
ty leader of Lynchburg, Virginia, has been
re-elected to the Young Leadership Cab-
inet of the United Jewish Appeal. In
addition to serving on the Lynchburg
Jewish Community Council, Mr. Schewel
also served as Finance Chairman for the
Memorial Hospital; local chairman for
the United Negro College Fund, and as
a Board member of the Fine Arts Center.
He was the 1952 “Outstanding Young Man
of the Year” for Lynchburg, selected by
the Junior Chamber of Commerce.

In February, Paut R. Byrp, moved from
Stamford Connecticut, to Marion, Vir-
ginia, where he is the Field Sales Manage
for American Screw Co., a Textron Di-
vision in Wytheville, Virginia. He and
his wife, Peggy, have two children.

In May, F. W. (Ricu) Kienpi retired
as president of the National Flexible
Packing Association. He was a vice-presi-
dent in charge of sales for Arkell and
Smith, a manufacturer of paper bags and
flexible packaging. He and his wife,
Ceryl, have a daughter and a son and
live in Forest Hills, New York, where
Rich is also president of the Forest Hills
Gardens Taxpayers Association.

1946

James H. BAtpwin is an “internal audi-
tor” for Eastern Air Lines. ‘Though based
at the Miami office, he travels throughout
the entire Eastern Airline system.

In August, BEN M. Brown, Jk., became
associated with the First National Bank
of Sullivan County in Kingsport, Ten-
nessee. He is in the business development
division.

In recent months, Frepertck S$. HOLiLry
was made assistant chief of the copy
desk at the Los Angeles Times, a position
he held with the Virginian Pilot in Nor-
folk before he moved west in 1963. The
Hollevs and their children, three boys
and a girl, live in Fullerton, California.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

BRENT BREEDIN, °47

1947

BeERNT BREEDIN jointed the staff of the
national headquarters of the American
College Public Relations Association
in April. With headquarters in Wash-
ington, D.C., he is in charge of the
\CPRA_ publications program, with spe-
cific responsibility for editing the regu-
lar issues of the College and University
Journal and Educational Abstracts. Brent
brings a background of college public
relations work to his new position. He
was associate director of public relations
at Clemson University in 1952-55, and
he served as university editor at Clemson
in 1964-66.

the March, 1966, issue of Social Service
Review carries an article by LEE SILVER-
STEIN entitled “Thoughts on the Legal
\id Movement.” Sponsored by the Office
of Economic Opportunity, Lee is work-
ing on a study of legal services for the
poor at the American Bar Foundation.

1948

Winning in competitive written and oral
examinations, FREDERICK G. GILLETTE was
appointed County Welfare Director for
Santa Clara County, California. Fred be-
gan with the department in 1965 and
prior to that time had seen nine years
of service as Executive Assistant to the
County Executive. Formerly he had been
in various county government capacities
and was also an instructor in Federal and
State Taxation at Carroll College. Dur-
ing World War Il he was a captain
in the Army in the China-Burma-India
(heater. During the Korean conflict he
was recalled to service in the Pentagon.
Fred lives in Sunnyvale, California, with
his wife, Jean, and twin seventeen-year-
old daughters and is the Director of the

SPRING 1966

 

FREDERICK G, GILLETTE, ‘48

Council of Social Planning of Santa Clara
County.

GLENN ‘TOOTHMAN was elected Judge ol
Greene County, Pennsylvania, in Novem-
ber, 1965. He has been practicing law
in Waynesburg, Pennsylvania, for sixteen
vears. He has served the county for two
terms as its district attorney. Judge
Toothman has been an_ instructor in
government and constitutional law and
from 1950 until his election has taught
business law at Waynesburg College.

Gordon A. Fox is Director of Financial
Planning for Lone Star Cement Corp.
with offices in New York City.

Since 1962 RurLepce H. Deas, JRr., has
been in Lafayette, Louisiana, where he
is an independent oil and gas producer.
The Deas have five children, two boys
and three girls.

Lewis H. McKenzie has been elected may-
or of Montezuma, Georgia.

1949

For the past five years RAy Hitt has
operated a manufacturers’ representative
agency for the sale of hospital and lab-
oratory equipment in the seven South-
eastern States.

In January, JOHN S. R. SCHOENFELD was
elected Chairman of the National Asso-
ciation of Securities Dealers’ Committee
on Business Conduct. John is a partner
in the firm of Ferris and Company in
Washington, D.C. He and his wife,
Florence, have two sons and a daughter.

1950

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. R. DABNEY CHApP-
MAN, a son, John McArthur Chapman, on
December 15, 1965. Dabney was Cultural
Officer at the American Embassy in

Kabul, Afghanistan, last year. He is now
at USIA headquarters in Washington,
D.C., and expects to be assigned to an
Army School of Advanced Russian in
Southern Germany preparatory to going
to the U.S. Embassy in Moscow.

Mircuect I. Lewis is the National Direc-
tor of Advertising and Public Relations
for McLandon Stations, a system of radio
stations in Dallas, Houston, Buffalo, Chi-
cago, Los Angeles and San_ Francisco.
Television applications are pending in
some of these stations. Mitch is also in
motion picture promotion and produc-
tion. He is under an exclusive contract
to United Artists to create’ broadcast
campaigns for six major features a year.
Mitch and his wife, the former Marie
Robert, have three children.

Dr. Robert S. MENDELSOHN is in the prac-
tice of internal medicine and hematology
in St. Louis. He and his wife have four
children.

Selling his interest in the Gilliam Furn-
iture, Inc., “THomMAs D. GILLIAM, § Jr.,
joined Drexel Furniture Co. of Drexel,
N. C., on January 1, 1966. He lives in
Morganton, N.C., where he is Director
of Merchandising Upholstery. He and his
wile have three daughters.

Since 1959 FRANcIs A. HARE has_ been
Chief Probation Officer for Henrico
County Juvenile Court. He has a masters
in social work. Francis and his wife
have five children.

ERNESt PLEASANTS GATES has been ap-
pointed Circuit Court Judge for Chester-
field County, Virginia. He was formerly
commonwealth’s attorney for that county.

Ciirrorp C. THOMAS, JR., has been ad-
mitted as a general partner in Hoppin
Brothers & Company of New York City,
member of the American Stock Exchange,

WALTER Roy HOFFMAN, JR., is now asso-
ciated with Andresen and Company ol
Birmingham, Alabama, investment bank-
ing and securities. The Hoffmans have
three children—a girl, thirteen; a_ boy,
eleven; and a girl, four.

1951

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Rosperr H. Brown,
a son, Robert, Jr., in November, 1964.
Hayes is the head of the Applied Math-
ematics group at Tennessee Eastman
Company and as_ parttime work, he
teaches statistics at the University of
Tennessee division in Kingsport, Ten-
nessee.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. NORMAN R. LEM-
CKE, JR., announce the birth of a son,
Norman Rohde, III, on February 28, 1966.
The family lives in Washington, Con-
necticut.
Effective September, 1966, Rosrrr H.
SALISBURY Obtained the rank of full pro-
fessor in the political science depart-
ment at Washington University in St.
Louis, Missouri. Next fall he is scheduled
to become chairman of the department.
29

.

HowArp BRArCHES is manager, Personnel
Administration, for General Foods Cor-
poration. The family lives in Rye, New
York.

W. Vance Rucker, JR., has been promoted
to Assistant Director of Purchasing of
Burlington Industries, Inc. He has been
with Burlington since 19532.

FONTAINE J. GILtiAmM has been promoted
to Commander in the US Naval Reserve.
Fontaine is associated with Deering,
Milliken Corporation in Gaffney, South
Carolina.

Martinsville (Va.) attorney, FRANK I.
RICHARDSON, JR. has been unanimously
endorsed by the Martinsville-Henry Coun-
ty Bar Association for appointment as
judge of the city’s newly created Corpova-
tion Court. The Governor will be asked
to name him to the bench until he re-
ceives official appointment by the 1968
General Assembly. Frank is president of
the local Bar Association and as Corpor-
ate Court Judge would relieve the Circuit
Court Judge of part of the area’s judicial
burden,

Roperr C. Carry is engaged in many
civic activities in Brooklyn, New York.
He is president of the community or-
ganization, Brooklyn Heights Associa-
tion, Inc. Bob is also vice-president of
the Brooklyn Home for Children; a mem-
ber of the Board of Directors for the
Brooklyn Eye and Ear Hospital; a mem-
ber of the Committee on Child and
Family Welfare, and a member of the
Federation of Protestant Welfare Agen-
cies.

THe Reverend JAMES C. FENHAGEN has
made two trips to Japan this year to do
Leadership ‘Training for the Episcopal
Church. He expects to return from ‘Tokyo
to Washington, D.C., in May.

After having been in the Legal Depart-
ment of the National Broadcasting Com-
pany in both New York and Los Angeles
lor the past fourteen years. Scorr SHOT!
returned to Bluefield, West Virginia, to
accept the position of station manager for
station WHIS-TYV.

Eric C, Hupert, for the past seven years
business administrator for Trinity Episco-
pal Church in Tulsa, Oklahoma, will be-
come the Administrator for St. Paul's
Episcopal parish and director of the pro-
gram for St. Paul’s Towers in Oakland,
California, one of the largest parishes in
the Bay area. The ‘Towers, a suburban
retirement home, was recently constructed
in keeping with the growing trend of
churches to provide homes for retired
persons. Eric will direct the cultural and
educational events for the residents of
the home. Hubert, a former Dallas bank-
er, has been active in local, state and
national work olf the National Association
of Church Business Administrators. He
serves as a national director and as editor

40

 

of NACBA. Eric is a director of the
Broadway Theater League of Tulsa, the
American Guild of Organists, and a mem-
ber of the English Speaking Union.

R. KE. Wurtrson, JRr., still travels exten-
sively in the United States and Canada
for the Ceramic Division of Georgia
Kaolin Company and writes that he meets
a number of W&L men. Dick lives’ in
Elizabeth, New Jersey.

The prominent young businessman and
community leader, RicHarp A. Pizrrz, has
been named to the Young Leadership
Cabinet of the United Jewish Appeal. Mr.
Pizitz, a Birmingham, Alabama, resident
and businessman, is a Director and for-
mer General Chairman of the United
Jewish Fund. He is a former president
of the Better Business Bureau of Birm-
ingham and the Alabama Council of
Retail Merchants. Mr. Pizitz is a_ vice
president and assistant to the president in
a family business which includes depart-
ment store management and realty,

1952

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Hetmur H. Huser,
a son, Franz Jose, on May &, 1966. The
family lives in Colonia El Carmen, Guate-
mala.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp Marz,
Jk., a daughter, Elizabeth, on February 1,
1966. Ed is Vice President of Kurly Kate
Corp. in Chicago, and he recently pur-
chased a Colorado business, the Allied
Wood Products, Ine.

Robert M. Baytrr is sales manager for
Fruehauf Trailer Corporation in’ Rich-
mond, Virginia.

DONALD K. WILLIAMS is supervisor of pro-
gramming for Hartford Federal Savings
and Loan Association of Hartford, Con-
necticut. Don is a section leader of the
John Birch Society. He and his wife have
two children.

Jor, B. Coorrr has been reelected Pres-
ident of the Norfolk (Virginia) Child
and Family Service which is a community
adoption and family counseling agency.
Also the board of visitors of the Rich-
mond Professional Institute has elected
Joel as chairman of “Advisory Commit-
tee” to the School of Social Work. While
still practicing tax law, Joel has also
been elected to the Board of Directors of
WAVY-Radio and T.V., an N.B.C. af-
filiate.

Horace W. Dierricu, JRr., is married to
the former Miss Nancy Kelly of Phila-
delphia. The couple have a daughter and
live in Baltimore. Horace has been pro-
moted to the rank of Commander in the
U.S. Naval Reserve.

In the Republican Primary of Ohio on
May 8, F. Stewart EvLiiorr, an attorney
in Lima, sought election as Judge of
the Court of Appeals.

the Carolina Forge Co. of Salisbury, N.
C., has elected WiLtiAM H. Lyon to its
Board of Directors. He has served as
sales manager since the company was
formed. Bill and his wife have three
daughters.

The Wise County Chamber of Commerce
selected Kenr RicG as “Wise County's
Outstanding Citizen of 1965."

Boyp H. Leyspurn has been living in
Nashville, Tennessee, since June, 1965.
where he is a group merchandising man-
ager with Sears, Roebuck & Company.

James R. VINSON has joined the Washing-
ton head-quartered National Association
of Wholesalers as director of services.
Most recently he has been with the
Ashland Oil and Refining Company.

Ernest H. CLArKe has been elected junior
warden of St. Francis in the Fields
Episcopal Church in Louisville, Ky.

THomas R. WaRFIELD was transferred
on January 1, 1966, from Los Angeles to
the New York headquarters of Blyth &
Company as assistant to the president.

One of the five awards made by the
Public Relations Society of America went
to the National Right to Work Commit-
tee. The Director of Information for the
NRWC is Hucu C., Newron. The com-
mittee was honored for its 1965 public
allairs program to preserve Section 14 (b)
of the ‘Talt-Hartley Act.

JOuUN J. SCHUMACHER is Sales Manager ol
Structural Stoneware Company, a_ brick
manufacturer in Minerva, Ohio. He
travels all over the country. His wife
and three children live in Canton, Ohio.

Pau D. Wettt has been named = super-
visor, field) management training, — by
Aetna Life & Casualty Insurance Com-
pany of Hartford, Connecticut. Paul
joined Aetna in 1959. He is a member of
the National Association of Life Under-
writers,

1953

H. Wittiam HorrMan, author and resi-
dent of Charlotte Court House, Virginia,
has written another novel—his fifth—en-
titled “Yancey’s War.” The book is
published by Doubleday & Company, Inc.
Other novels by Hollman are: “The
Trumpet Unblown,” “Days in the Yel-
low Leaf,” “A Place for My Head,” “The
Dark Mountains.”

Dr. T. Kyte Creson, JRr., is praticing
internal medicine and hematology in
Memphis. Also he is teaching at the
medical branch of the University of
Tennessee in) Memphis. Kyle and _ his
wife, Jane, have two sons,

In February, CHArtrs Scorr May left St.
Paul’s church in Newport, Arkansas, to
become assistant rector of Trinity Church
in Columbia.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

J AROSLAN \. DRABEK plans to visit Czech
oslovakia with his wife and young son,
Jan. They will make the trip this sum

mcr.

Next summer Dr. Harry A. Fozzarp will
move to Chicago to be in the Cardi-
ology Department of the University of
Chicago Medical School.

1954

VWARRIED: Harowp JoserH QUINN, JR.,
ind Judith Crow were married in Shreve-
ort, Louisiana, on June g, 1965. Harold
is practicing otolaryngology in Shreve-

port

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. WILLtAM BB.
IyapneT, a son, William Barlow, III, on
\ugust 4, 1965. The family lives” in
Greensboro, North Carolina.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs, JAMeEs R. TRIMM, a
daughter, Nancy Suzanne, on March 49,
1966. The family lives in Silver Spring,
Marviand.

Having produced two motion pictures in
lralv. Paut M. MASLANSKY Is in Rome
as production executive with United
\rtists. He is currently working on prep-
aration of a new Fellini picture, “Any-
one for Venice.” with Rex Harrison and

Susan Haywood.

\fter spending 1961 in Great Britain do-
ing research work for his dissertation,
Dr. Henry P. Porter, JR., served as an
instructor in history at Miami University

Oxford. Ohio). He returned to Duke

University in 1964-65 to complete his
dissertation and received a Ph.D. in his
tory. The dissertation is entitled Strategy,
Speculation, and Capitulation: The Back-
round to British East Africa 1873-1890.
Receiving an appointment as a fellow in
International Studies, Dr. Porter was sent
by Duke to the Makerere’ University
College of East Africa as a visiting lec-
turer. Aftea
\frica last year, he returned to Miami

traveling widely in East
lL niversitv as Associate Professor.

S. T. Prerreoinr is in Cristobal, Canal
fone, where he is operating an import
ind export business for W. Andrews and
( ompany.

RICHARD R. Ross is product manager fon
\ndrew Jergens Co, of Cincinnati.

JOUN D. HANNON, together with a group
ol employees including A. C. HUBBARD,
59-A, ‘62-LL.B., and WILLIAM B. THomp-
SON, “54, has recently purchased con-
Rowe Price & Associates, in-
vestment counsel of Baltimore and New
York. The firm has had successful growth
ind now has an international clientele.

}ACK A. Stres has been promoted by the
Rubber Company
trom a staff assignment in the home office

Goodyear ‘Tire and

in Akron to be assistant manager of
a new distribution center outside Balti-
more. He will handle the East Coast

SPRING 1966

ous

 

Ropert E. BRAprorb, ‘54, wilh former VICk-PRESIDENT RICHARD NIXON.

for Goodyear, trom Philadelphia to Rich-
mond,

NicHOLAS G. MANDAK is an attorney in
Clifton, New Jersey. He was married in
May, 1964, to the former Lorraine Petrek
and the couple have a son, Jeffrey Scott
Mandak, born July 9, 1965.

James D. BoNesBRAKeE of Northwestern
Mutual Life Insurance Company is pres-
ident of the Cleveland Life Underwriters
Association, a non-profit: service organ-
ization representing almost all of the
majer life insurance companies in Cleve-
land and more than 1250 life insurance
agents. Jim has been a member of the
Million Dollar Round ‘Table for six of
the last eight vears.

 

JAmes D. BONEBRAKE, '54

Former Vice President Richard Nixon is
shown with Rosperr E. BRApDFoRD during
a recent visit by Mr. Nixon to Washing-
ton. He spoke at a luncheon of the Bull
Klephants, assistants to Republican Sen-
ators and Congressmen, of which Brad-
ford is president. Bradford is the admin-
istrative assistant to Congressman Richard
Poll of Virginia.

1955

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Eucene B. SteMIN-
SKI, JR., a son, Jason, on November 11,
1965. Gene continues his studies for the
Ph.D. at American University, Washing-
ton, D.C., in the field of management
technology, where he is a research asso-
ciate with the real estate department
of the university. In addition he is the
editor of Washington Real Estate Lette
and has started a market and economic
research firm, Market Metrics.

Guy P. METCALFE, JR., is president of Met-
calfe and Company of Louisville, Ken-
tucky. He and his wife, Barbara Ann,
have a son, Guy, IIL.

\t the University of Maryland DouGLas
EK. Rrreomi, JRr., is a faculty research as-
sistant at the Chesapeake Biological Lab
of the Natural Resources Institute. He is
assisting in research of striped bass and
flounder in  Maryland’s tidewater ol
Cheaspeake Bay and tributaries. He was
also recently appointed a registered rep-
resentative of Financial Programs, Inc.

Joun T. Huppir, attorney in Lancaster,
Pennsvivania, has been elected to his
fourth successive term as Law Director
for the City of Lancaster.

ROLAND Crocker Davies, JR. started the
practice of architecture in Philadelphia
in December, 1965. He lives with his
family in Society Hill which is a historical

”
51

area in Philadelphia now being restored
and Roland is restoring his own house.
‘The Davies’ second son, Eric Seuel, was
born June 28th, 1965.

1956

MARRIED; James B. LUNGER and Janet
Corbin were married August 14, 1965.
Janet is a math teacher in Waynesboro
where Jim is the Science Supervisor in
the Waynesboro (Va.) Public Schools.

Formerly the Teacher Education Director
and Chairman of the Social Studies De-
partment at North Carolina Advancement
School, Dr. SAMUEL A. SyMe, JR., has
been named Assistant Professor of Educa-
tion at Wake Forest College in Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, effective Septem-
ber 1, 1966.

James W. Marvin, JRr., has recently been
elected vice president of the Philadelphia
Junior Chamber of Commerce.

The Gordon Woodside Gallery of Seattle
and San Francisco will present the art
work of Forrest Lee Moses, JR., in San
Francisco April 22-May 12. Pete received
his art training at Washington and Lee,
Pratt Institute in New York, and inde-
pendent study in Europe. He has shown
in group exhibits in Virginia, New York
and Texas, and has had one-man shows
at the David Gallery in Houston.

Rurerr F. CHtsHoim, JRr., is now the em-
ployee relations administrator for Esso
research and is headquartered in Brus-
sels, Belgium. This company is a recently
formed organization established by Esso
to conduct research and technical service
activities in the chemical field.

Joun W. Duncan has returned from his
Swiss Dental Practice and is opening his
practice in Richmond, Virginia.

EpcaR LevAN Grove has bought Shenk
Bros., a sporting goods business in Lan-
caster, Pennsylvania. The store is one
of the oldest established businesses in
Eastern Pennsylvania, and it will con-
tinue to operate under the name of
Shenk Bros. For the past seven years
Grove has been employed in the Public
Relations and Public Affairs Department
of Armstrong Cork. He makes his home
in Lancaster where he is active in Civic
and church work, particularly the United

Fund Campaign.
1957

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLEs M. Drum,
a daughter, Amy Nielsen, on April 13,
1966. There are two other litthe Drums
in the family. Charles is employed as a
member of the technical staff at Bell
Laboratories and they live in Allentown,
Pennsylvania.

Grorce S. Ger, JR., is a real estate broker
in Dallas, Texas. He and his wife an-
nounce the arrival of a second daughter,
Karen, on July g, 1965.

42

Jorn H. Bernstein has been appointed
Assistant Professor of Art at Mary Wash-
ington College effective September, 1966.
He plans to write his Ph.D. thesis while
teaching. He will teach American Art and
Architecture in the igth and goth cen-
tury.

James M. Boswett and his wife, June,
are currently living in South Charleston,
West Virginia, where Jim is Division
Sales Promotion Manager for Kroger
Company. The couple has two sons.

CAPTAIN ALFRED J]. MAGOLINE, JR., is in
his third year of residency training at
Walter Reed U.S. Army Hospital special-
izing in ear, nose, and throat.

DONALD C, SPANN and his brother, Henry,
own and operate Village Galleries, a
home furnishing concern in Greenville,
South Carolina. The sales territory is the
entire Eastern Seaboard and Dan covers
much of it in the company’s plane.

Cuarves B. RICHARDSON is a pilot trainee
with United Airlines in Denver, Colorado.

CHaArRLes R. THOMPSON is now associated
with the brokerage and investment bank-
ing firm of Tucker, Anthony and R. L.
Day of New York City.

Dr. Rosert C. Tote is working in Cin-
cinnati with the “Project Headstart.”
He has a private practice of dentistry.

Ropsert A. CArrkNs moved to Winter Park,
Florida, in 1966. He is manager of one
of the largest sales offices of the Con-
solidated Electrodynamics Corporation.

WALTER C. CREMIN, JR., has become a
partner in Woodrow Mann & Company
of Houston. The firm is in the business
of insurance and financial security plan-
ning.

CHARLES KANNAPELL has been appointed
Manager of the Kansas City Branch Of-
fice of American Air Filter Company. He
joined this company after graduation
and completed the firm’s technical train-
ing school before being assigned to the
Washington, D.C., branch office. For the
past several years he has been eastern
regional supervisor for the Air Filter
Division in Louisville and in 1961 was
the recipient of the Robert W. Nelson
Award which is presented annually to
the firm’s outstanding young salesman of
the year.

A. JACKSON Mason has added the duties
of Executive Secretary of the Eastern
Shore of the Virginia Chamber of Com-
merce to his real estate business. The
Masons and their three sons live in Ac-
comac, Virginia.

1958

MARRIED: WittiAM B. Wispom, Jr.,
and Helen Hauser Mitteer were married
February 19, 1966. Bill is practicing law
in New Orleans.

Ross G. Pickus has been elected president
of Postagraph Corporation, a manufac-
turer of specialty envelopes.

THOMAS F. KING, JR., was recently named
a vice-president of Charter Commercial
and Investment Loan Co. of Jacksonville,
Florida. The firm, a subsidiary of the
Charter Co., specializes in the financing
of commercial and income producing
properties,

In March 1965, JouN C. Binrorp moved
from Dallas to Albuquerque, New Mex-
ico, to become manager of Goodbody &
Co., a member of the New York Stock
Exchange. He and his wife, Julie, have
two children.

James J. Crawrorp, JRr., is a geologist
with Sunray DX Oil Company of Tulsa,
Oklahoma. He presently lives in Colum-
bus, Ohio. Since joining Sunray he has
done research to find oil and gas sup-
plies over the central part of the United
States,

Avery B. JUHRING is presently enrolled at
the Goethe Institute in Rotenburg O. T.
Germany. Later he plans to work for
Singer Company in Germany before en-
rolling at the European Institute of
Business Administration in Fontainbleu
next September.

CHARLES P. Corn is teaching American
literature at American University in
Washington, D.C. He and his wife, the
former Katherine Hayes, have one son
and the family has been spending summer
vacations in Mexico. They live in Be-
thesda.

Dr. WATSON G. (WAT) WATRING is pres-
ently in his second year of obstetrics and
gynecology at Indiana University. He ex-
pects to join the Army Medical Corps
in March, 1966, and to be stationed at
Fort Devens, Massachusetts.

The feature editor for Training in Busi-
ness and Industry, a Gellert-Wolfman
publication, is SIDNEY SCoTT WHIPPLE.

Cuartes DAvip Hitpretu is a full time
student at Georgetown College where he
plans to major in English with expec-
tations of teaching in high school.

THe Rev. JAMes Lewis is curate at St.
Anne’s Episcopal Church in Annapolis.
Jim is also a volunteer coach with the
Navy team of lacrosse and is credited with
greatly improving the husky goalie’s
game which resulted in 76 saves for the
first eight contests. Jim finds a dual pur-
pose to his partime lacrosse coaching:
“I minister to a lot of these midship-
men. | also keep in good shape while
getting to Know them better.”

James E. Lipscomsp of Greenville, S. C.,
has been nominated to the coveted Mil-
lion Dollar Round ‘Table for insurance
salesmen. He will attend a national meet-
ing in Boston in June.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Pui H. Weeks, JRr., has been appointed
district manager of the Connecticut Gen-
eral Life Insurance Company's Wilkes-
Barre office, a district of the company’s
Philadelphia office. Phil joined Connec-
ticut General in 1964 as a brokerage con-
sultant in the Philadelphia office. He re-
cently attended a seminar held in Hart-
ford, Connecticut. Phil was among a se-
lect group from the Company's agencies
throughout the country who met to ex-
change ideas at the seminar. He and _ his
wife, Ann, have two daughters and they
make their home in Bear Creek, Pennsyl-

vania.

C. PArkuitt Mays, Jr., and his wife,
Mason, are now. living in Lakeland,
Florida, where Parkhill is a partner in
the law firm of Holland, Bevis, Smith,
Kibler and Hall. The couple have a son.

\LLAN JouHN MeAp, formerly with the
Chemical Bank and Trust Company for
six vears, has been named an assistant
vice-president of the First National Bank
of Marviand. He assumed his new duties
in the Baltimore bank’s loan and invest-
ment department in March.

fueopore G. Ricu, JR., travels in Europe
for Gimble Company. He and his wile
have a one-year-old daughter,

1959

VARRIED: Joun C. Fay, Jr., and Miss
Mary Lyons were married April 16, 1966,
in Sylacauga, Alabama. John is with the
United States Pipe & Foundry Company
in Birmingham, Alabama.

VARRIED: Murray M. WapsworrH and
Miss Mary Madison were married April
30, 1966, in Miami, Florida. Murray is
assistant U.S. Attorney in ‘Tallahassee.

WittiAm H. Pixron has been teaching
freshman English at the University of
North Carolina since September, 1965.
Bill expects to complete his Ph.D. re-
quirements in 1968.

JouN WorsnHAm has accepted an appoint-
ment as intern psychologist at Bellevue
Psychiatric Hospital in New York City.

Captain Roperr C. KercHaAm is in Fort
Riley, Kansas, after three years on active
duty in Paris, France. He is currently
serving in a Reserve Officer capacity. The
Ketchams have two children.

EUGENE GiRrARD, II, is in Colombia, South
\merica, with the Medellin Branch of the
First National City Bank of New York.
He expects to be in the States for a va-
cation this summer.

IRVIN EBAUGH is Eastern sales manager for
Bruning Paint Company. He works out
of Baltimore, Maryland, where he and
his wife, the former Julia Scott Todd,
live with their two children.

In February RaLtpH M. Evans became a
member of the New York Stock Ex-

SPRING 1966

 

Puitie H, WEEKs, ‘58

change and a partner in the firm of M. H.
Silver & Company.

C. Royce Houcu is assistant cashier of
the Wachovia Bank & ‘Trust Company in
Winston-Salem. He and his wife, Harriet,
have three sons.

After receiving his Ph.D. in Chemistry
from Cornell University in the fall of
1963, JouN C. Korz and his wife, Katie,
went to England on a_ post-doctoral fel-
lowship from the U.S. National Cancer
Institute. After a year in’ Manchester
doing research at the Manchester College
of Science and Technology and the addi-
tion of a son, David, born July 1964, the
family returned to the States and went to
Indiana University. In 1965 John started
his career at Kansas State University
as assistant professor in the chemistry de-

 

JAmMes A. Woop, ‘59

partment. In addition to his course work.
he directs the Ph.D. research of fow
graduate students.

RicHARD A. POWELL is teaching at the
Woodbridge School at the RAF station in
Suffolk, England. The school is for
American Air Force dependent children.

CHARLES R. SPENCER, JR., has been pro-
moted to Assistant Vice-president — ol
Mason & Company, Inc., member of the
New York Stock Exchange with  head-
quarters in Newport News. Charles is ac-
tive in the Junior Chamber of Commerce,
the Peninsula United Fund, the YMCA
Board of Directors. He is married to the
former Ann Douglas Scott of Lynchburg
and the couple have a young son.

In San Juan, Puerto Rico, JOHN H. Esrer-
IAN is head of the English Department at
St. John’s Prep School and a part time
English instructor at the University olf
Puerto Rico.

Lewis Henry LARvue is Trial Attorney,
Civil Rights Division, U.S. Department of
Justice, Washington, D.C.

EDGAR MILLER BABER is a representative
for the Equitable Life Assurance Society
of the United States in the Richmond,
Virginia, office. The Babers have a year-
old son, E. Miller, Jr.

Following fourteen months in = military
duty in Korea and the Republic of
Vietnam, Dr. Davin M. Baker returned
to the States in January, 1966. He is
presently assigned to Walter Reed General
Hospital in Washington, D.C.

Joun K. DaAucGurrey, JR., has settled in
Richmond, Virginia. Jack is a registered
representative with the stock brokerage
firm of Abbot, Proctor & Paine.

ROBERT. EDWARD SHEPHERD, JR., has be-
come a member of the new law firm in
Richmond, Virginia, Smith and Shepherd,
with offices in the Mutual Building.

JAmMes Ropert Lowe is a captain in the
Army and is presently attending the
Ordnance Corps Career Class at Aber-
deen Proving Ground, Maryland. In May
he will begin a tour in Vietnam. The
Lowes have two children—Bill, who is
five, and Kathy, who is three.

Leaving Newport News where he has
been Humble’s oil heat sales supervisor,
JAmes A. Woop has been moved to Nor-
folk and promoted to Dealer Sales Sup-
ervisor for the Eastern Esso Region of
Humble Oil Co. Jim joined Humble in
1959 in Roanoke; advanced to general
salesman at Covington in 1961; and New-
port News in 1963.

1960

MARRIED: SAnrred Larson and Kath-
erine Laqueur were married on April go,
1966. The couple resides in Washington,
D.C., where Sandy devotes a great deal

33

of time to painting and drawing. His wife
sits as his model. He also teaches at St.
Albans School for Boys.

MARRIED: After graduation in 1960
GORDON E. ROUNTREE and Laura Lee
Wickersham of Jacksonville, Florida,
were married. Gordon then served two
years with the U.S. Army in Berlin and
upon his release from duty entered the
L.S.U. Law School in September, 1963.
Being graduated in May, 1966, he was
second in his class, editor of the Law
Review, a member of the Order of the
Coif, and O.D.K. Gordon and Laura live
in Baton Rouge, La.

MARRIED: CHARLES EDWARD DOWMAN,
IV, and Marlys Elaine Paxman were
married March 21, 1966, in Norwalk,
California. The new couple spent their
honeymoon in Hawaii.

MARRIED: ALLEN MEAD FERGUSON and
Mary Rutherford Mercer were married
April 23, 1966, in Richmond, Virginia.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. JosepH E. RING-
LAND, a daughter, Judith Masters, on No-
vember 5, 1965. The family lives in New
York City.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs J. OWEN WISE, a
daughter, Beth, born Oct. 30, 1965. Owen
was admitted to the Maryland Bar Asso-
ciation in December, 1965, and is now in
private practice with his father. He and
his family live in Denton, Maryland.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMrs P. BOLDRICK,
a son, James Miles, on November 6,
1965. The family lives in Midland,
‘Texas.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WALTER C. FOULKE,
a son, Kenton, on December 7, 1965. ‘Che
Foulkes live in Union Springs, New York.

FRANK GLASER is a securities analyst with
Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith
in New York City.

Admitted to the Louisiana Bar in August,
1963, HARLEY B. Howcott, Jr., is in
private practice in New Orleans. He re-
ceived his law degree from ‘Tulane.

‘THOMAS R. OAKLEY, JR., has recently
gone into business for himself as a con-
crete contractor primarily in Northern
Virginia. He is active in the National
Association of Home Builders. He and
his wife, Marta, have three children and
they live in a new home in Annandale,
Virginia.

PHitie B. ROBERTSON is on the research
staff of the University of Miami at the
Institute of Marine Science. He expects
to have his Ph.D. in the summer of 1966.

Joun C. Histey is a resident doctor in
obstetrics and gynecology at the Uni-
versity Hospital in Baltimore, Maryland.

CHARLES S. CHAMBERLIN is working in the

Mortgage Loan department of the Aetna
Life Insurance Co. in Hartford, Conn.

34

J. FRANK SuRFACE is practicing law with
the firm of Mahony, Hadlow, Chambers,
and Adams in Jacksonville, Florida. He
and his wife have a two-year-old son.

CHARLES W. SPRINGER is) employed by
Manufacturers Hanover ‘Trust Company
in their International Division, Far
Eastern ‘Territory.

WALTER G. ‘THOMPSON Is an executive as-
sistant to IBEC. The International Basic
Economy Corporation is a Rockefeller
founded private enterprise principally
interested in investments in under-de-
veloped nations, thereby assisting econom-
ic growth. He and his wife and daughter
live in Sao Paulo, Brazil.

Dr. MERVYN F. SILVERMAN is a_ physician
with the Peace Corps. He and his wife,
Debbie, with daughter Lauren, have been
in Thailand for the past six months
where Merv has approximately 375 vol-
unteers under his care. The Silvermans
expect to be on this assignment until
June, 1967.

JOHN M. BRApForD is Director of Custom-

er Service for Plantation Patterns, Inc.,
of Birmingham, Alabama.

NATHAN C. CLAUNCH received his Ph.D.
degree in Psychology from Princeton Uni-
versity in 1964. He is now on the staff of
the Merrill-Palmer Institute in Detroit
and is also staff psychologist for the De-
troit Orthopedic Clinic. His wife, Carolyn,
is doing biochemical research at Wayne
University in Detroit.

JAmMes RANDOLPH HICKMAN is at Rens-
salaer Polytechnic Institute working on
his Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering.
He and his wife have a son, Thomas
Kelly, born in April, 1965.

JOHN R. PLEASANT, JR., is an instructor of
freshman and sophomore’ English at
Southeastern Louisiana College in Ham-
mond, Louisiana.

1961

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM 'T. BUICE,
III, a daughter, Merrill Stuart, on May
g, 1966. The family lives in New York
City.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM N. MAr-
TIN, a daughter, Rebecca Dunn, on Feb-
ruary 21, 1966. ‘he new arrival joins a
sister, Cynthia, and the family lives in
Hartford, Connecticut, where Billy is
with the Aetna Life Insurance Company.

With the rank of heutenant (j.g.) RicH-
ARD L. KUERSTEINER 18 a law specialist
after completion of the Navy Justice
School in Newport, R. I. He expects to
be assigned to Manila in the Philippines.

Epwin B. BOATNER is presently a student
in the School of Sacred Music at Union
Theological Seminary in New York City.
At the Seminary Edwin was pianist for
their winter musical review, “Exodus and
Easter. THe as also organist in a five-

member Baroque chamber — ensemble
which he organized in 1965. Edwin was
conductor of a performance of the Faure
Requiem at the First Presbyterian Church
in Forest Hills in April, 1966, and is
scheduled to give an organ recital at St.
James’ Episcopal Church, New York City,
in May.

For the next two years, CHARLES S. Was-
suM, III, will be assigned to the Univer-
sity of Washington Hospital as a resident
physician in pediatrics.

The Standard Oil Company of California
has named THomMaAs H. ALEXANDER as its
Associate Specialist in their Special Pro-
ducts Division.

In the forestry graduate school at V.P.L.,
Dwicur D. CHAMBERLAIN has been initi-
ated into Phi Sigma, a national honorary
biology fraternity and also into Xi Sigma
Pi, a national honorary forestry fraternity.
Dwight has been elected president of
the V.P.I. Student Chapter of The Wild-
life Society.

After finishing medical internship at the
University of Oklahoma this year DAvip
V. EAKIN will be assigned to an Air Force
Base in ‘Turkey.

After four years in sales with ‘Thelmany
Pulp and Paper Company, JOHN F.
SANDERS resigned to go into farming. He
acquired a go-acre farm outside of ‘Troy,
Ohio, where he is primarily in the cat-
tle feeding operation.

Jack H. Brearp, Jr., sold his magazine
subscription agency to EBSCo of Birming-
ham. In the transaction Jack became the
general manager of the company for the
Southwest Area. EBSCo is the world’s
largest. diversified subscription agency
with offices throughout the United States,
in ‘Tokyo, and in Frankfurt, Germany.

Howarp W. ZIMMERMAN received his mas-
ters degree from N.Y.U. in June, 196k,
and is now a Ph.D. candidate.

HAywoop BALL for the past two years
has been practicing law in Jacksonville,
Florida, with the firm of Ulmer, Mur-
chison, Kent, Ashley & Ball. He and his
wife, Anna, have a young son, Haywood,
|r, born October 3, 1965.

WALTER J. CRATER, JR., employed by At-
lantic Research Corp., is working on his
master’s of Engineering Administration
at George Washington University.

Since March, 1965, PETER G. SCHMIDT has
been sales and product development man-
ager for the Mexican subsidiary of Bata
Shoe Organization of ‘Toronto, Canada.
This subsidiary, Sandak, S.A., is the larg-
est shoe manufacturer in Mexico.

J. Carrer Fox has been promoted from
project accountant to staff assistant to the
manager of woodlands of ‘The Chesapeake
Corporation of Virginia in West Point,
Virginia. He will assist in preparing re-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ports and staff projects relating to forest
resources and their utilization by the pulp
and paper company.

In February FLEMING KEEFE was. trans-
ferred by Humble Oil Company to the
Newport News Area. He will make his
home in Hampton, Virginia.

1962

MARRIED: ROBERT PATRICK CARROLL, JR,
and Gladys Fagelson were married on
June 18, 1966, in Annandale, Virginia.

MARRIED: ‘THomMAS  B. SHERWOOD and
Miss Rebecca ‘Talbot Whitfield, a graduate
of Queens College and from Moultrie,
Georgia, were married April 16, 1966.
Among the groomsmen were PAUL PLA-
WIN, ‘60, and Dr. WILLIAM J. FIDLER, 61.
The new couple lives in Ahoskie, North
Carolina, where Tom is employed by
Columbian Peanut Company.

MARRIED: Lestie H. PEArRD, III, was
married February 12, 1966, to the former
Helene C. Johnson of Tulsa, Oklahoma.
He is employed by the United California
Bank in San Francisco.

MARRIED: In June 1965, JAY C. GREEN
married Miss Luida R. Karlan of Spring-
field, Ohio. At present Jay is a senior
at the Dental School of the University
of Maryland. He is in the Navy Dental
Corps and will go on active duty after
eraduation from. school.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. HENry D. HOLLAND,
a daughter, Kathryn Lynette, on March
21, 1966. Henry received his M.D. degree
from the Medical College of Virginia in
June, 1966, and he is now serving a ro-
tating internship at the Norfolk General
Hospital.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM L. Rops-
ERTS, JR., a daughter, Elizabeth Lock,
on January 4, 1966. Bill is with the in-
ternational division of the First National
City Bank of New York and is presently
assigned to their branch in Beirut, Leb-
anon.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ALLYN D. KANTOR,
a second daughter, Rebecca Jean, on
March 11, 1966. The family lives in Har-
rogate, England, where Allyn is a_ first
lieutenant with the U.S. Army. He ex-
pects to return to the States in October,
1966, and will join the law firm of
DeVere & Devine in Ann Arbor, Mich-

igan,

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. STANLEY A. WAL-
(ON, III, a daughter, Katherine Mary, on
May 5, 1966. Sandy received his law de-
gree from Washington and Lee in 1965
and is currently associated with a law
firm in Chicago.

lHoMAS L, FEAZELL is with the Ashland
Oil and Refining Co. serving in the legal
department. The family, wife Gigi and
two children, live in Ashland, Kentucky.

SPRING 1966

After graduating from the University
of Virginia Law School in June, 1965,
R. WILLIAM IpE, III, was law clerk in
the office of the judge of the U.S. Fifth
Circuit Court of Appeals in’ Atlanta.
Georgia. In the fall of 1966 he started
practicing in Atlanta with the law firm
of King & Spaulding.

STEVE SurTLe is clerking for Judge Leo
Brewster, U.S. District Judge, in Fort
Worth, ‘Texas. Steve received his law de-
gree from the University of ‘Texas.

PHitie D. SHARP, JR., is with the First
Marine Division at Chu Lai, which is
about forty miles south of Da Nang. He
is in the Legal Headquarters and writes
that approximately fifteen cases are pro-
cessed each month. Phil expects to be
assigned to State’s duty in September.

At a December, 1965, meeting the stock-
holders of Underwood Builders Supply
Company of Mobile elected M. WILLIAM
MYERS as a director.

Continuing his work begun two years
ago, VERNON LANCE ‘TARRANCE, JR., is the
Research Director of the Texas Republi-
can Party with state headquarters in
Austin. At the same time Lance is at-
tending the University of ‘Texas where
he is working toward a master’s degree in
government.

GEORGE A. CRUGER is assistant city editor
of the Portchester (New York) Daily Item.

RICHARD ALAN RaApis has opened offices in
Kt. Lauderdale, for the general practice
of law.

WILLIAM CLARENCE Boyp, III, is practic-
ing law in Columbia, S. C., with the firm
of Boyd, Bruton, Knowlton and ‘Pate.

MIcHAEL A. HENRY received his law de-
gree from the University of “Texas. He
has recently become associated — with
Thomas J. Lykos in the practice of law
in Houston.

James A. GWINN, JR., is senior salesman
for Scott Paper Co. in New Orleans.
Jimmy saw Army duty in Panama and
while there met Miss Dorothy Moses who
later became his wife. The couple live in
Metairie, Louisiana, and have a_ seven
months old son, James III.

Following graduation, WILLIAM B. Jor-
DON, JR., entered the Institute of Fine
Arts at N.Y.U. and received a master’s
degree from that institution in June, 1964.
His field is Spanish XVIIth century paint-
ing. By October, 1965, he passed his major
and minor examinations for the Ph.D. ‘To
complete his dissertation, Bill will spend
two or three months in Spain this spring.
While at the Institute of Fine Arts, Bill
was president of the student body, a
member of the Board of Editors of
Marsyas, and Editor-in-Chief of the /nsti-
lute of kine Arts News. When he returns

from Spain he expects to rejoin the staft
of Rothrock, Reynolds and Reynolds, a
management counsultant firm in New
York as a consultant in their department
of museums and cultural institutions.

1963

MARRIED: ALLAN NEIL CRAWFORD, JR,
and Margaret Pidcock Pippin were mar-
ried on November 21, 1965. The new
couple lives in Atlanta, Georgia, where
Allan is an underwriter with Life In-
surance Company of Georgia.

MARRIED; A. Judson BABcocK and Patri-
cia Greene were married on November
27, 1965, in New Jersey. Judson is a
senior financial analyst at Manufacturers
Hanover ‘Trust Company.

MARRIED; James L. Prrers and_ the
former Miss Frances Carey of Jacksonville,
Alabama, were married June 12, 1965, at
Ft. McClellan, Alabama. After release
from army duty in October, 1965, Jim
joined the firm of Peters and Peters in
Atlanta.

MARRIED: Davin F. Perers and Jane
Catherine Witherspoon were married
August 21, 1965. The bride is a gradu-
ate of St. Catherine’s School in Richmond
and Duke University. Dave expects to
finish Duke Law School this June. He
will be associated with the law firm of
Hunton, Williams, Gay, Powell and Gib-
son in Richmond.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. E. PHttip MCCALEB,
a daughter, Sara Woodward, on February
6, 1966. The family lives in Craddockville,
Virginia, where Phil is a volunteer coach
of the undefeated Central High School
J.V. football team.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Bruce H. Roper-
son, a son, David Bruce, on April 17,
1966. ‘The father graduated in June, 1966,
from the Virginia Law School and_ will
be associated with the firm of Morris,
Nichols, Arsht & ‘Tunnell in Wilmington,
Delaware. Bruce expects to enter military
service in early 1967

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN P. Cover,
a daughter, Anne Randolph Cover, on
October 14, 1965. John is with the mar-
ket research department of Procter and
Gamble.

As a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy, H.
MICHAEL WALKER serves” as navigator
aboard the U.S.S. Aldebaran (AKIO) whose
home port is Norfolk. Mickey will be
discharged from the Navy in July, 1966,
and plans to enter the graduate school
of business at the University of Virginia.

After finishing his third year at Medical
School at the University of Maryland,
EDWARD B. OsTROFF spent the summer of
1965 at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,
Minnesota. He plans to spend the sum-
mer of 1966 in Israel at Hadassah Medi-
cal hospital in Jerusalem.

NicHoLtas MOoNSARRAT is an airman. sta-
tioned, at. Glark. Air. Force Base in the
Philippines. He is practicing journalism
in the department of Public Relations.
He and his wife have one son.

After working for Hayden, Stone, Inc.,
New York City, J. M. Gore FriEpRICHS has
opened an office for the New Orleans
firm of Howard, Weil, Labouisse, Fried-
richs & Co., a Louisiana based investment
banking firm. He is the manager of the
New York office doing general securities
business.

EpWIN P. GARRETSON, JR., is working on
His fii. Geerce: at tie University of
Chicago.

Ropert M. Ausurn will graduate from
Duke Medical School in January, 1967,
and he has an internship at Duke for
1967-68. He then plans to specialize in
obstetrics and gynecology.

After receiving his law degree from the
University of Richmond in June, 1965,
G. ANDREW NEA, Jr., became the law
clerk for; Justice H. F. Snead, Virginia
State Supreme Court of Appeals.

DONALD S. CAMPBELL is now on the Uni-
versity of Delaware faculty as an in-
structional technologist. ‘This involves
producing educational television material.

W. Lewis LEIGH, JR., has joined the law
firm of Leigh, Kincheloe & Swart in Fair-
fax, Virginia.

Released from Army duty February, 1966,
with the rank of First Lieutenant, AN-
DREW A. SMITH, JR., is back at work at
the Wilmington ‘Trust Co. in Wilmington,
Delaware.

CHARLES S. (CHUCK) LANE, former star
athlete at Washington and Lee, has been
named publicity director of the Green
Bay Packers. Chuck has been in the pro-
motion business for the last three years
and has handled promotion for the
Harlem Globetrotters and the Minnesota
Vikings.

H. KIRKLAND HENRY, JR., reports he is in
the accelerated training program of
Household Finance Corp. in Chicago,
Illinois.

CLARENCE RENSHAW is serving as Assistant
Information Officer with the Army’s 1st
Logistical Command Headquarters, Sai-
gon, Vietnam. He arrived in Vietnam in
January after serving with the informa-
tion office at Ft. Dix. He holds the rank of
2nd Lieutenant.

1964

MARRIED: E. RANDOLPH WOOTTON, JR.,
and Susan H. White of Baltimore were
married February 12, 1966. Randy re-
ceived his master’s degree in Business
Administration from Columbia University
and is now employed by Arthur Anderson
& Company of New York City.

36

MARRIED: Joun P. Ray and Marion
Harcourt were married September 18,
1965, in Louisville, Kentucky. John is
employed by Carter Paint Co., Industrial
Sales Division, out of Nashville, Ten-
nessee.

MARRIED: WILLIAM H. MARMION, Jpr.,
and Miss Jane Ross Lemon were mar-
ried December 28, 1965. ‘The couple lives
in Cambridge, Mass., where Bill is com-
pleting work on his master’s degree in
teaching. Next year he plans to study
at the Episcopal ‘Theological School in
a program designed to test one’s voca-
tion for the ministry.

BORN: Lt. and Mrs. Rosert E. LEE,
their second child, a daughter, Brandy
Lynne, on Noveniber 17, 1965: Lt. Lee
is serving with the 1o1st Airborne Di-
vision stationed in Viet Nam. He is due
to return in. July, 1966, after a year's
service.

EpwArp S. CrorFt, III, is'a lieutenant as-
signed with the 155th Army ‘Transporta-
tion Company at Camp Raub Bay in Viet
Nam.

Following graduation from Harvard Busi-
ness School in June JupsON P. Reis and his
wife, Judith, will move to New York City,
where Jud is to begin work with Morgan
Stanley Company, investment bankers.

In his third year as a bachelor of divinity
student at Yale Divinity School, ROGER
W. PAINE, III, is editor of Reflections,
Yale’s journal of religious opinion. He
was the recipient of the TEW prize for
academic excellence as a first-year stu-
dent. His wife, Judy, teaches English in
the New Haven junior high School.

Having completed his graduate work in
Columbia School of Business, BURTON
B. STANIAR is starting work for Colgate-
Palmolive Company.

FREDERICK J. (RICK) KRALL graduated from
Harvard Business School in June and ex-
pects to enter the Army for a _ two-year
tour of duty. Following this military duty,
Rick will be with the General Foods
Corporation in their product manage-
ment.

JouNn Mitron McDAntet, III, has finished
his work for an M.A. at the University of
Pennsylvania and intends to go on _ to-
ward his Ph.D. degree in anthropology.

JOHN MICHAELSEN graduated in February
with a master’s in Business Administra-
tion from Columbia Business School. He
is now working for Union Carbide Com-
pany in New York City. He expects to
start Naval OCS program soon.

Brice R. GAMBER is serving as a end
Lieutenant in the Ordnance Corps as-
signed to the 4th Infantry Division. at
Ft. Lewis, Washington. He was married
in the summer of 1965 to Miss Carol
Everngam of Baltimore. JIM BOARDMAN,
65, Bos LATHROP, ’59, JOHNNY McDAN-

IEL, 64, JOHN MICHAELSON, ’65, and SAM
Pipes, 64 were ushers.

Prrer H. ALForD is enjoying his first year
of teaching French, and coaching club
soccer, varsity squash and tennis at Berk-
shire School. He will return to France
this summer as leader of a group of stu-
dents.

Britain H. Bryant became associated
with the law firm of Dudley and Brown
in Christainsted, St. Croix, Virgin Islands,
in March 1066. He and his wife, the
former Peyton Greshorn of Louisville,
Kentucky, reside in St. Croix permanently.
In addition to being admitted to the
Virgin Island Bar, he is also a member
of the Bar of the State of Kentucky.

CHArLrs B. Rowe practiced Jaw with F.
BerT PULLEY, ’51, in Courtland, Virginia,
during the summer of 1964 and then en-
tered active duty with the U.S. Army,
Fort Polk, Louisiana, commissioned a
first lieutenant in the Judge Advocate
General’s Corps. In December, 1965, he
was promoted to captain.

During the summer of 1965, HArRry L.
PARLETTE, III, served on active duty with
the U.S. Navy’s Experimental Deep-Sea
Diving Unit. He is an Ensign in the USS.
Naval Reserve. Presently he is finishing
his second year at Georgetown University’s
School of Medicine.

Lr. SmitH HICKENLOOPER, III, is stationed
at Qui Non in Viet Nam.

JOHNNY P. Epwarps is at the American
University of Beirut, in Lebanon, on a
Rotary Foundation Fellowship for 1965-
Oe. “Ive expecis' to return to the Law
School at the University of Texas.

JouN Z. MHEINZERLING has graduated
from Officer’s. Candidate School and
commissioned an Ensign in the U.S. Navy.
After additional training at the Naval
Air Station in Glynco, Georgia, he is to
report to the Aircraft Carrier, Benning-
ton, te jaticer part of June. Tne Ber-
nington is operating in the West Pacific.

RicHArRD ‘T. SPENCER is Staff Supervisor
with. the Long. Line Department. of
American ‘Telephone and ‘Telegraph
Company.

1965

Stationed at Fort Ord in California, an
army infantry training center, RICHARD
N. CARRELL is expecting assignment in
Korea.

WILLIAM H. DELAVAN, JR., after transfer-
ring to the University of Illinois, gradu-
ated from there im 209065. with an A.B.
degree in Economics. He is presently en-
rolled in the television-radio graduate
sequence at Syracuse University.

In the annual Moot Court competition
for the first-year law students at Cornell
University, RicHARD K. KNEIPPER, repre-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

senting the defendant, won in the case
of Tideway Transport, Inc. v. The King-
dom of Utopia. Recognition means the
winner’s name will be placed on a gold
plaque along with such distinguished law
alumni as Joseph Weintraub, chief Judge
of the New Jersey Supreme Court, and
the current Law School professor, W.
David Curtiss, Jr. Kneipper and the other
winner beat out a first-year class of 150
students.

In addition to carrying a full schedule
at night graduate school, Vicror R.
GALEF is holding down a full time job
with J. L. Galef & Son, a manufacturer
and distributor of firearms. Victor is seek-
ing his master’s degree in Business Ad-
ministration.

STEPHEN ‘T. HippArp has been elected one

of two first-year representatives to the
Cornell Law School Association.

 

1892

Jupce JOHN MIrcHELL Woops, formerly of
Martinsburg and later of Charleston, West
Virginia, died in Coral Gables, Florida, on
May 5, 1966. While at Washington and
Lee Judge Woods was one of the out-
standing athletes and has been _ recog-
nized through the years as one of the
University’s all-time “greats.” He was
first elected judge of the 18th Circuit of
West Virginia in 1912, after nearly
twenty years of private practice. As a
jurist he gained national attention in
the early 1920’s while presiding over
treason trials in Charles ‘Town involv-
ing members of the United Mine Workers
charged with inciting insurrection, one
of the few treason trials in the history
of the nation up to that time. He re-
tired in 1956 and made his home in
Ilorida. (See class notes for the year 1892.)

1894

Lestie Mitton Croucu died January 22,
1966. He was licensed to practice law in
the State of Missouri for more than
seventy-one years. His son, Leslie, - Jr.,
continues in the law firm, Crouch, Crouch,
Spangler & Douglas, of Harrisonville,
Missouri. Mr. Crouch was admitted to
the bar in Cass County in 1895 and had
practiced there continuously during his
entire legal career.

1904

BRIGHTWELL FIELDER of Dallas,
I exas, died on October 28, 1965. Mr.
Fielder was a retired lumber and cattle
man.

DAVID

SPRING 1966

1906

Dr. FRANCIS RANDOLPH CRAWFORD, a re-
tired physician and surgeon, died in
Farmville, Virginia, on March g, 1966. Dr.
Crawford was a former medical mission-
ary to China, serving as the superinten-
dent and surgeon of the Kashing Christian
Hospital in Kashing, China, from 1915 to
1932. He was then associated with the
Southside Community Hospital in Farm-
ville. Dr. Crawford was also a past pres-
ident and past campaign chairman of the
Prince Edward County Community Chest,
an elder in the Presbyterian Church, and
a past president of the Farmville Lions
Club.

1910

WILLIAM CuRRELL VANCE of Washington,
D.C., a former lawyer with the U.S. Court
of Claims, died September 25, 1965.

1912

Dr. Leroy HaAvaArp Scorr of Shreveport,
Louisiana, died on April 4, 1966. Dr.
Scott had practiced medicine and surgery
in Shreveport for forty-one years, serv-
ing on the staff of most of the hospitals
in the Shreveport area. He was active in
the alumni affairs of the Kappa Alpha
Order and at the time of his death
was serving as Preceptor of the H. H.
White Court of Honor. He was also a
member of all the Masonic bodies and
was one of the area’s earliest amateur
radio license holders and held a_ private
pilot’s license.

JOHN ALEXANDER LANCASTER died on April
5, 1966, in Farmville, Virginia. Mr. Lan-
caster made his home in Farmville where
he had been in the private practice of
law since graduating from Washington
and Lee:

1914

Junrus L. Powe tt died at home in New
York City on April 30, 1966. He was a
native of Wytheville, Virginia, where
he began a long friendship with Dr.
Francis P. Gaines and Mrs. Woodrow
Wilson. During World War I he served
overseas in the American Army as lieu-
tenant of Infantry. He was vice-president
of Chubb and Sons, insurance under-
writers, and director of the United States
Guarantee Company, Vigilant Insurance
Company, Compagnia de Seguros Federal
de Cuba, and had other business interests.
He was a most loyal and enthusiastic
alumnus.

Rosert P. Hopson, a Louisville, Kentucky,
attorney for more than forty-five years,
died April 26, 1966, at the Kentucky
Baptist Hospital. Mr. Hobson was a mem-
ber of the local, state and national bar
associations and in 1965 was nominated
for a three-year term on the board of
governors of the American Bar Associa-
tion. He was a member of the American

College of ‘Trial Lawyers and the House
of Delegates of the ABA. The Hobson
family originated in Virginia and several
generations have attended Washington
College and Washington and Lee Univer-
sity. Mr. Hobson’s son Roperr C. Hopson,
'40, is a partner in the Louisville law firm.
Mr. Hobson was active in all community
and church affairs and was a former trus-
tee of the University of Kentucky.

WALTER SAMUEL PHLEGAR of Johnson City,
Tennessee, died on March 21, 1966, at his
home in Johnson City.

1915

FRANK JENNINGS BECKWITH, prominent at-
torney of Charles Town, West Virginia,
died on March 5, 1966. Mr. Beckwith
served as a member of the West Virginia
House of Delegates in 1921 and in the
Same year was a member of the state
executive committee of the American Leg-
ion. He was a member of the West Vir-
einia and American Bar Associations, had
been on the Democratic executive com-
mittee for his congressional district since
1936, and was a member of the Jefferson
County Board of Education from 1937
to 1942. He was widely known through-
out the state of West Virginia for his
many state and civic activities.

1920

MurrAy  JosepH O’Brerry of ‘Tampa,
Florida, died on September 22, 1965. Mr.
O’Berry had been connected with the
Exchange National Bank of Tampa at
one time and had also been in the in-
surance business. For a number of years
prior to his death he had been affiliated
with the Maas Brothers department store.

192]

Roy JEFFERSON GRIMLEY died on May 4,
1966, in Ridgewood, New Jersey. Mr.
Grimley had practiced law in Ridgewood
since 1922 and at one time was counsel
to the Commissioner of Banking and In-
surance for the State of New Jersey.
During World War II he served as
Government Appeal Agent assigned to
Bergen County Local Draft Board. In
1929 he was one of the founders of the
North Jersey Trust Company in Ridge-
wood and since that time had served as
director and counsel. Mr. Grimley was re-
sponsible for the issuing of the Wash-
ington and Lee Bi-Centennial stamp, a
commemorative issue honoring the Uni-
versity.

i923

Donatp F. Mtoron, former financial edi-
tor of the New Orleans Jtem and later
in the investment business in Biloxi, Mis-
Sissippi, died in Biloxi on May 1, 1966.
While with the New Orleans newspaper,
he handled the commercial page, com-
modity markets, and real estate matters.
After moving to Mississippi he served on

347

the staff of former Governor Ross Barnett
as an honorary colonel.

Joun Bruce Gorpon died on February 10,
1966, in Murphy, North Carolina. Mr.
Gordon had for many years been in the
lumber business, dealing in all phases
of timber and timber products in North
Carolina.

1924

Joun Douctas Bassett, JR., head of Bas-
sett Furniture Industries, Inc., died on
May 24, 1966. Mr. Bassett was chairman
of the board, chief executive officer, and
treasurer of the furniture empire founded
by his father shortly after the turn of the
century, a business now operating seven
plants and recognized as the leading
bedroom and dining room producer in the
world. His death ended one of the most
successful and outstanding business ca-
reers in Virginia, the South, and the na-
tion. He also served a multitude of other
interests in top capacities—president of
the First National Bank of Bassett; chair-
man of the board for a number of furni-
ture corporations; a director for various
furniture marts and expositions. In edu-
cational and civic fields Mr. Bassett was
a member of the board of trustees of the
Virginia Foundation for Independent Col-
leges, a trustee of Roanoke College, a
member of the Advisory Committee for
the University of Virginia in Martinsville,
and a trustee of the Martinsville General
Hospital.

JAmes Burriss PRuITT, circuit judge of the
Tenth Judicial District of South Carolina,
died on April 21, 1966, in his home town
of Anderson. Before his judgeship he had
been for many years one of the most ef-
fective members of the South Carolina
Senate, particularly as vice-chairman of
the powerful Judiciary Committee of the
Senate. He helped to draft the state’s
election law which gave South Carolina
wholesale election reforms. As a judge he
made many important contributions to
the cause of equal justice for all people
regardless of station.

1925

Henry FRrAncis (Bo) MCMILLAN, promin-
ent business, civic and church leader of
Athens, Tennessee, died unexpectedly at
his home on May 20, 1966. As a student
at Washington and Lee he excelled as an
athlete in football and baseball. Mr.
McMillian was owner of the McMillan
Coal Company in Athens and was presi-
dent of McMillan Oil Company. He had
served on the County School Board, as
president of the Kiwanis Club, the Athens
Chamber of Commerce, and on the board
of trustees of the Bachman Presbyterian
Home and of ‘Tennessee Wesleyan College.

1926

Davip CLARK Marcus of Beaumont, ‘Texas,
died on February 27, 1966.

38

1927

FRANK W. URMEY, a manpower analyst
for the Department of the Army, died in
Washington, D.C., on March 21, 1966.
Mr. Urmey, a native of Bloomington,
Indiana, moved to Washington as a boy
of twelve years of age and became a Senate
page. In World War II he served in the
European theater and was an active re-
servist until his retirement in 1963. He
was a member of the Board of Directors of
the American Peace Society and treasurer
of the Foundation for Religious Action,
private societies which work for peace
and religion.

CHARLES HARRISON WILSON, one-time may-
or of Crewe, Virginia, died on January
12, 1966, in Crewe.

Roy G. Nicuors died on March 9g, 1966,
in Huntington, West Virgina. He was
nationally known as a grower of roses
and was a former operatic baritone. For
many years he lived in Norfolk where
he grew more than 1,000 rose plants and
where his gardens were a state show place.
He studied voice after his graduation from
Washington and Lee both in Boston and
at the Juilliard School of Music and sang
the major roles in the world premieres of
two operas and a leading role in the
Broadway operetta “Hansel and Gretel.”
After many years of radio, concert and
vaudeville tours, he returned to Norfolk
and was director of music at Blair Junior
High School for twelve years.

1928

JeRoME WARNER SCHWABE, president of
Schwabe-May, men’s clothiers in Charles-
ton, West Virginia, died February 16,
1966, in Palm Beach, Florida, while va-
cationing with Mrs. Schwabe. He had been
in ill health since major surgery two years
ago, but death came _ suddenly. Mr.
Schwabe was active in many civic affairs,
particularly the United Fund. He was a
former president and member of the
Board of Directors of the Charleston Gen-
eral Hospital and former president of
Temple Israel.

J. Davis Rreep, JRr., died of a heart at-
tack on January 15, 1966. Mr. Reed made
his home in Virginia Beach, Virginia, but
he had practiced law in Norfolk since
1931. Since 1942 he had also been Trial
Justice for Princess Anne County, Vir-
ginia,

CHARLES Epwarpd BRANHAM died in At-
lanta, Georgia, on December 10, 1965. Mr.
Branham was vice-president and director
of The Branham Company, a newspaper
advertising sales representative. During
World War II he served 42 months in
Military Intelligence in foreign countries,
and he received several foreign military
decorations: ‘The Most Excellent Order of
the British Empire, ‘The Order of the
Cloud Banner conferred by the Chinese
Ambassador, and the Medailla de la Re-
connaissance conferred by France.

1932

MARION WaAbkE MACDONALD of Flourtown,
Pennsylvania, died on December 22, 1965.

1933

WILSON FERGUSON MILLER, an attorney in
Lexington, Virginia, died in Lexington
on May 20, 1966. He had been im the
private practice of law in Lexington
since 1936 and at one time was substitute
trial justice of Rockbridge County. Dur-
ing the period of World War IT he taught
in the Washington and Lee Law School.

1939

Joun S. MEHLER, formerly of Waynesboro,
Virginia, died in Spottswood, New Jersey,
on February 18, 1966. At the time of his
death he was librarian in Trenton, New
Jersey. John had formerly been librarian
at the University of Alaska in College,
Alaska. Burial was in Arlington National
Cemetery.

1943

Dr. JoHN F. M. KEIGHLEY, JR., died on
April 25, 1966, at Woonsocket, Rhode Is-
land. Dr. Keighley graduated from the
Baltimore College of Dental Surgery in
the class of 1945. For the past seven years
he had been the resident dentist at the
Zambarano Memorial Hospital at Wallum
Lake, Rhode Island.

1945

Henry BRECKENRIDGE VANCE, well known
attorney in Buena Vista, Virginia, died in
an automobile accident on April 27, 1966.
A native of Lexington, Kentucky, Mr.
Vance received his law degree from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1951. A past-president
of the local bar association, Vance was
city attorney for Buena Vista from 1956
through February, 1963, He was a mem-
ber of the American Legion, the Lion’s
Club, and past-president of the P.T.A.
He is survived by his wife and _ five
children,

RoBperRT JOHN STEPHENSON, III, of Green-
ville, South Carolina, died on April 2,
1966, after a brief illness. After leaving
Washington and Lee he attended the
Philadelphia ‘Textile Institute and was
later employed by the Southern Bleachery
and Print Works in Greenville.

1958

Dr. EpwARD WARREN Noe died March 9,
1966. He was an assistant professor at the
University of ‘Tulsa in Tulsa, Oklahoma.

1960

RONALD SMITH GEORGEHEAD of Louisville,
Kentucky, died in an automobile accident
on October 9, 1965.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

| vood-size crowd was on hand for the chapter program in New port News, Above are officers

the Peninsula Chapter, l-r, SeCRETARY-TREASURER Voss NEAL, ‘51; PRESIDENT DAN W. WILK-
INSON, 38; and PAst Presipent I, LEAKE WornoM, ‘50. At right, above, RICHARD HUDGINS, "BBs
nd Puittirs M. DowpineG, °52; below, VERNON ‘T. STRECKLER, ’38, and DENNIS EDWARDS, ‘24.

Vewe of the Chapters

  

PENINSULA

# ALUMNI Of the Peninsula Chap-
ter and their wives and dates gath-
ered for an interesting and enter-
taining meeting at the King James
Motel in Newport News on May 6.

Lhe reception-banquet was held
in the Queen Anne Room, and the
guests for the evening were Dr.
Kdward L. Pinney of the Political
Science Department of Washington
and Lee and Bill Washburn, ex-
ecutive secretary of the Alumni As-
sociation.

|. Leake Wornom, Jr., ‘50, out-
going president, presided as master
of ceremonies. Douglas M. Smith,
51, chairman of the nominating
committee, proposed the following
slate of officers who were unani-
mously elected: Dan W. Wilkinson.
ity ce; Krank

Beazlie. "40, vice-president; and Dr.

president; Dr.

Voss Neal, ’51, secretary-treasurer.
in his remarks Dr. Pinney, a
member of the Admissions Commit-
ce, gave an up-to-date review of
admissions policy and a profile

QO} he

treshman class. A film

ip about admissions. especially

SPRING 1966

designed for use in high schools,
was shown and was monitored by
Dr. Pinney.

sill Washburn reported on the
Alumni House and appealed to the
chapter to complete its campaign as
soon as possible. After a period ol
questions and answers, the meeting
adjourned.

JACKSONVILLE
® UNDER THE DIRECTION olf chaptei
ofhcers Archie Jenkins, ’58, Frank
Surtace, 60, and Haywood Ball, ’61,

the Jacksonville, Florida, Chapter

held a very successful spring meet-
ing on April ggth at the Florida
Yacht Club. A’ delightful

hour was enjoyed by fifty-two per-

social
sons including wives, dates and
prospective W&L students and thei
parents. Afterwards, the club’s fa-
mous fried-shrimp dinner was
served.
Chosen unanimously as _ the
speaker for the occasion was Dean
Edward Atwood whose well re-
ceived discussion highlighted the
evening. His topic, evolution of the

Washington and Lee student over

the last several years, was enjoyed
by many of his former students who
were present in the group.
Those in attendance were espec-
ially encouraged over the enthus-
lastic support given this most re-
cent meeting of the Jacksonville
Chapter. Of special interest was a
brief report concerning the prog-
ress made by the members in be-
half of the Alumni House Fund
Campaign since its inception in

1QO5.

RICHMOND

# THE ANNUAL business meeting of
the Richmond Chapter was held
luesday, June 14, 1966, at the
Rotunda Club. The membership
elected the following officers for
A Putney,
Robert J. Smith,
William H.

‘57, Secretary; Tyson L.

the coming year: Lee
‘53, President;
‘46, Vice
Abeloff,

Janney, '53, Treasurer.

President:

Mark Saurs was named chairman
ot a committee to propose for con-

sideration a program of recognition

39

 

in honor of the Washington and
Lee members of the General <As-

sembly.

A resolution was adopted to ex-
press grateful appreciation on be-
half of the chapter to the outgoing
president, Walter J. McGraw, ‘55,
for his outstanding leadership and
service to the chapter.

® ORIGINALLY planned for January
29th but postponed because of a
record snow storm, the fifth annual
Washington and Lee formal Din-
ner Dance was held at the Rotun-
da Club on May 14th.

Che gala occasion once again saw
the revelers dancing to the strains
of the Washington and Lee Swing.
President Wally McGraw represent-
ed the chapter as host and many

guests were on hand.

PIEDMON 1

@ ROYCE HOUGH, ‘59, president, in-
troduced Dean Edward Atwood as
guest speaker at the spring meet-
ing held May goth, at the Lown
House Restaurant.

Dean Atwood compared the stu-
dent today with his counterpart
twenty-five years ago. Alumni Sec-
retary Bill Washburn accompanied
Dean Atwood and reported on the
Alumni House Campaign both on

4O

the national level and on the Pied-

mont Chapter’s portion.

A full discussion period followed
the meeting, with the alumni put-
ting many questions to Dean At-
wood about the spirit and attitude
of the student of today.

FLORIDA WEST COASI

gs THE ALUMNI ol Tampa, St. Peters-
burg, Clearwater, Sarasota and the
surrounding area joined for a din-
ner meeting at the St. Petersburg
Yacht Club on Wednesday, June
15. A cocktail reception preceded
the smorgasbord banquet at which
Bill Washburn was guest speaker.
An up-to-date report on the Uni-
versity and a discussion of the
chapter’s campaign in the Alumni
House Fund drive were topics ol
the speaker. Outgoing president
Joseph H. Chumbley, ’55, presided.
A series of colored slides depicting
scenes of the campus and of individ-
ual members of the faculty and ad-
ministration were shown. In _ the
short business session which took
place, the following new officers for
next year were elected: John R.
Lawson, Jr., 52, of Tampa, Presi-
Reams, °46, of St.
Vice-President;

dent; Hugh E.
Petersburg, John
M. Faison, °55, of Clearwater, Sec-

retary.

The recent meeting of
the Piedmont Chapter
brought out these alumni
and = guests: I-r, ~~ MRs.
Larry Wiuison; W. E.
LAtTrure, “42; Mrs. Lat
rURE; FRANK SMITH, ‘32;
Royce HoucGu, 59; MRs.
JouN Davis; and = Mxs.
HOouGH.

ROANOKE

@ ROANOKE alumni, their wives and
guests were pleased to have as thet
guest speaker Dean Lewis G. John,
Assistant Dean of Students and Di-
rector of Student Financial Aid on
May 25 at the spring meeting ol
the Roanoke chapter at the Holi-
day Inn.

Presiding over the banquet was
Robert E. Glenn, ‘51, president ol
the chapter.

3111 Washburn, alumni secretary,
preceded Dean John on the pro-
gram with a brief report of the
Alumni House Fund. He paid high
compliments to the Roanoke chap-
ter for their fine record under the
chairmanship of Martin P. Burks.

Dean John’s talk centered around
the admissions situation and how
an alumni chapter might be of serv-
ice in this area. A new and inter-
esting film strip, designed for use
in recruiting high school seniors,
was shown.

In the short business session, the
chairman of the nominating com-
mittee, Robert S. Goldsmith, Jr.,
'53-L, presented the following slate
which was unanimously elected:
William J. Lemon,
William S.
Hubard, ’50-L; and Secretary- Treas-

President,
‘57; Vice-president,
urer, H. Bennett Meador, ]r., '56.

rHE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Commemorative Plates
(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes

Price, $27.00 per set, f.0.b. Lexington, Virginia

Available in blue color only

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

PLAN NOW!

HOMECOMING

Saturday, November 5, 1966

Washington and Lee vs. Sewanee

Wilson Field

 

 

 

Official Opening of
the Alumni House

ALUMNI LUNCHEON

Torchlight Parade and Fraternity House
Pep Rally Decorations

Homecoming Queen Post-Game Reception

 

 

