62

MER 19

SUM

 

hty-lT'wo Years

1S

E
{ Teach

Service

Ing

O

 

 

 

ice
—
Cl WD
3 ‘s
— WD
S S
N
oe on
2 sD
So
O 8S
@ ean

a)

Make

 

Pep Rally and Pajama Parade

Fraternity Decoration Contest

Openings Dances

Guided ‘Tours of New Buildings

Alumni Luncheon

The Football Game

 

|

e ° e |

|

ig |

 

 

 

 

 

THE

ASHINGTON

 

AND Lee ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Editor

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

Managing Editor

FRANK A. PARSONS, 1954

Editorial Associate
Mrs. ROBERT STEWART

THE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President
RopDNEY M. Cook, 1946

Vice-President
Joun D. Battie, Jr., M.D., 1934

Secretary
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

Treasurer
E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

jJoun D. BATTLE, JR., M.D., 1934
ANDREW H. BAuR, JR., 1937
THOMAS B. BRYANT, JR., 1928
JAMeEs H. CLARK, 1931

RopNnEY M. Cook, 1946, President
E. STEWART EPLEY, 1949

JAmMes B. MARTIN, 1931

E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., 1933
C. WILLIAM Pacy, II, 1950

E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938
WILLIAM B. WISDOM, 1921
SHERWOOD W. WISE, 1932

EDITORIAL BOARD

FRANK J. GILLIAM, 1917
FITZGERALD FLOURNOY, 1921
PAXTON DAVIS

James W. WHITEHEAD
ROpDNEY M. Cook, 1946
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

 

Published quarterly by Alumni, Incor-
porated, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia.

Entered as Second Class Matter at_the
Post Office at Lexington, Virginia, Sep-
tember 15, 1924. Printed at the Journalism
Laboratory Press of Washington and Lee
University under the supervision of C.
Harold Lauck.

SUMMER 1962

September, 1962
Volume XXXVII

Number 3

THE COVER: Professors Bean, left, and
Latture are retiring as heads of the Depart-
ment of History and Department of Political
Science respectively. The story is on Page 13.

 

 

 

CONTENTS

Graduation, 1962

‘The President’s Remarks to Graduates
Honorary Degree Citations

Professors Bean and Latture Retire

Sports Roundup

News of the University

Shenandoah: Excellent ‘Little’? Magazine
Ambulance Unit Holds Reunion
Anniversary Reunions-Law Day Merger
‘The Association’s Annual Meeting
Homecoming and Dance Weekend Combined
‘The Alumni President’s Report

‘The Executive Secretary's Report

‘The Alumni Fund: Misses Goal, Still Succeeds
Special Endowments Honor Alumni

Class Notes

In Memoriam

Alumni Chapter Meetings

 

Concerning the Severing

Of Certain College Friendships

Wherein Is Reported

A Somewhat Irreverent,

Tongue-in-Cheek (and Accurate)

Account of Graduation, 1962

HE WEATHER, as has come to be
 ipeaee at graduation, was
ideal. Proud parents and_ other
relatives were there by the hun-
dreds, some sedately in their seats
on the green lawn before the Presi-
dent’s home, others moving about
in small stampedes, competing for
an unobstructed camera view or a
better glimpse of the young men
who, for most parents, represented
a four-year investment of about
$10,000.

The seniors, warmly uncomfor-
table in their black gowns and not
quite sure which way their tassels
hung, ambled self-consciously along
the walk from Washington Hall to
the Commencement platform near
the Lee-Jackson house. When they
had formed the long double col-
umn on either side of the sidewalk,
the faculty ambled by between
them. The University Marshal, bur-
dened with mace, and the Presi-
dent, and dignitaries and deans all
marched purposefully enough, but
the professors, for the most part,
merely ambled. Somehow, the pro-
cession kept its pace, although ev-
eryone gave the impression he was
waiting for his distinguished col-

9
a

league in front to get a move on.

This was the scene on June 8
this year, just as it has been the
scene for many other Lexington
Fridays early in June. There were
227 bachelor degrees to be confer-
red, four honorary degrees to be
awarded to the accompaniment of
appropriate praise, two speeches to
be heard, and a hymn and the
Alma Mater to be sung. The pro-
gram was virtually unchanged from
last year, or the year before, and in
about an hour and a half, some
professor would be quoting Dr.
Gaines quoting a New Yorker grad-
uation cartoon: “Well, that put’s
a cork in another bottle!”

Pretty soon it was time for the
valedictory by senior Joseph Leo-
nard Goldstein. After quoting
Browning’s “Ah, but a man’s reach
should exceed his grasp,’’ Gold-
stein reached out to tell his audi-
ence about Washington and Lee.

He allowed as how there were
many good things about Washing-
ton and Lee, but he said there were
some bad things, too, and he’d like
to see these taken care of. About
the worst, he said, are the regula-

tions imposed on students by the
faculty and administration. He
didn’t say which regulations. May-
be he meant the ones which tend to
emphasize proper social conduct,
proper regard for the property
rights and personal sensibilities of
the Lexington populace, and, in
general, things that might limit a
student’s pursuit of his idea of a
well-rounded _ personality.

Mr. Goldstein recalled General
Lee’s remark that “We have but
one rule here, and it is that every
student must be a gentleman.” It
looked for a brief moment that per-
haps the valedictorian was going
to suggest that if today’s students
were more gentlemanly in some of
their behavior, maybe the Univer-
sity could get back to the one rule
business. But he just said the reg-
ulations and rules were bad, and
totally unneeded at Washington
and Lee, for after all, the valedic-
torian concluded:

“This isn’t Sweet Briar, and it
isn’t Hollins, and it isn’t Phillips
Exeter Academy!”

Goldstein’s classmates cheered
and clapped, and some _ parents

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

looked a little uneasy about their
$10,000. But then everyone got up
and sang “O God, Our Help in
Ages Past,” and the faculty seemed
to join in more loudly than usual.

Then things settled down again,
and the seniors came forward to
get their diplomas. President Cole
had no more than the usual presi-
dential difficulty with the hereto-
fore unencountered middle names,
and the graduates were amazingly
quick to catch on to reaching for
the diploma with the left hand and
shaking hands with the right, right
over left. Occasionally someone
would try left over right, and the
microphone would be momentar-
ily in danger.

There were twenty-nine seniors
receiving LL.B. degrees, twenty-
three who received B.S. degrees,
thirty-three who got B.S. degrees
with special attainments in Com-
merce, and four who earned B.S.
degrees with special attainments in
Chemistry. There were 138 who re-
ceived B.A. degrees. As graduation
classes go, it was a big one, 25 more
than last year.

The conferring of honorary
Doctor of Law degrees was carried
out under proper circumstances
without hitch. Two of the recipi-
ents were military men—Maj. Gen.
George R. E. Shell, superintendent
of neighboring Virginia Military
Institute, and alumnus Rear Adm.
Robert D. Powers, Jr., ’29, assistant
judge advocate general of the U.S.
Navy—and they received their
hoods on their arms. Because of ill-
ness, alumnus Robert C. Smith, ’26,
Chicago industrial executive, could
not receive his degree in person,
and it was accepted for him by his
brother, Wilbur Smith, of Coving-
ton, Va. He took the hood on his
arm, too, so only William S. Mil-
burn, former principal of Louis-
ville Male High School, risked the
hooding ceremony. But Mr. Mil-
burn’s hood settled smoothly on
his shoulders and his breathing re-
mained unimpaired.

SUMMER 1962

 

3

 

 

Commissions Awarded To

Army Reserve commissions were awarded to

forty-seven Washington and Lee seniors on June

8, which means the scenes below were repeated

approximately forty-seven times.
PP y y

 

The traditional dollar for that first salute changes hands.

 

Soldiers suffer many hardships.

47 ROTC Cadets

 

Something about a soldier.

 

Smile!

 

According to campus legend,
ever since a commencement speak-
er droned on to mid-afternoon, the
graduation address has been given
at Washington and Lee by the
president. To suggest brevity, it
is called not a speech, but “remarks
to graduates.” President Cole made
the remarks, but it sounded like a
speech. Most folks agreed it was a
pretty good one, and in view of

4

what he had to say, many thought
he must have had advance notice
about what Mr. Goldstein was
planning. But it was only coin-
cidental that President Cole’s re-
marks provided a kind of rebuttal
to the views set forth by Mr. Gold-
stein.

Said President Cole:

“IT believe all of us are aware of
the criticisms which are leveled at

the University each academic sea-
son by the current generation of
students.... Each year the faculty
and administrators are confronted
with the rather unusual phenome-
non of students who, in the course
of one to four years, discover, ap-
parently, simple answers to academ-
ic and institutional problems that
stump men whose experience in

these matters extends over ten,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

twenty, thirty years and_ longer.
Sometimes, when the University
does not respond immediately to
these obvious solutions, the critics
become quite cynical in their atti-
tudes toward the University. They
feel they have been witnesses to the
utter decline of a once-wonderful
institution, and they feel that their
experience in this respect is unique
and wholly theirs. But student atti-
tudes and concerns have an unusu-
al cycle.”

President Cole went on to quote
from a student critic of the mid-
1930's, and for a few sentences, it
sounded like Mr. Goldstein had the
floor again. But the critic of other
days concluded that despite its
shortcomings, Washington and Lee
was a fine place to get an education,
largely because of the quality of the
men who taught there. This tied in
very nicely with President Cole’s
major point of his address: that
Washington and Lee has been for-
tunate to have an unbroken succes-
sion of superior teachers, and that
it is this excellence of teaching,
combined with the traditions of
honor and gentlemanly conduct,
which will eventually make Wash-
ington and Lee “best of all.”

Then a few members of the Glee
Club led the rest of the graduates
and the faculty in an indistinct
chorus of “College Friendships,”
and it was all over for another year.
There was still the hand-shaking
and leave-taking, and a few more
pictures to be snapped, but the
crowd thinned quickly, and the
rapidity with which most gradu-
ates can depart Lexington remains
a marvel to behold.

All in all, it was a good gradua-
tion. A year from now, few parents
will remember what the valedictor-
ian said, or for that matter, what
the President said. But they'll al-
ways remember that one great mo-
ment when their son stepped up to
get his degree. And if he got his
hands mixed up and nearly upset
the microphone, so what?

SUMMER 1962

 

 

‘“Frontiers of the Mind”’

HE 1962 BACCALAUREATE SERMON was delivered in Lee Chapel
i, Dr. James I. McCord, president of Princeton Theological
Seminary. Dr. McCord told his audience of seniors, parents, and
faculty that there is a “frontier of the spirit’ which lifts man
“above the fluctuating vicissitudes of history and opens to him
horizons broad enough for fulfillment.”

He said man is a “theological being to be viewed from above
and in the light of God. The man for whom this frontier of the
spirit is closed is the shrunken man, the hollow and petty man,
that is, condemned to a life that is one-dimensional.”

Dr. McCord noted that at the peak of this country’s power and
responsibility, Americans have become a people “dominated by the
trivial within and intimated by the vulgar without.”

“It is true that we are in a period of radical transition and
that our relationship to the rest of the world has been revolution-
ized,” he declared. “History has caught up and surrounded us.”

“But, it is precisely at this point that St. Paul’s advice is most
pertinent,” the speaker added. “He reminds us that there is the
frontier of the mind to be explored.”

“Only recently,’ Dr. McCord asserted, “have we been liberated
from superstition, and not yet have we been set free from the
most elemental fears. The increase in knowledge since the be-
ginning of this century is astounding when measured against the
knowledge accumulated in all the centuries that have gone before
us, but it is infinitesimal when measured against the intellectual
frontier that has not yet been possessed.

“We are only in the beginning of the scientific revolution, and
we dare not lag in this enterprise. You will be adjusting to new
knowledge and participating in continuing education as long as

you live.”

 

President Cole’s excellent graduation
address and the citations for the dis-
tinguished honorary degree recipients
are carried in full on the following
pages.

 

The President's

Remarks

Washington and Lee's
Traditions of Honor,
Gentlemanly Conduct,
And Faculty Excellence
Influence All Students
Throughout Lifetimes

 

to the Graduates

LTHOUGH THESE BRIEF remarks traditionally are
heard near the close of the commencement cere-

mony, I take this opportunity to extend a warm wel-
come to the parents, the families, and friends of to-
day’s graduating seniors. —I’wo years ago Mrs. Cole and
I were: privileged to share with other parents the
great pride and personal satisfaction that derives from
the graduation of a son or daughter from college.
And it is an experience that I hope we shall share
several more times in the seemingly on-rushing future.
Just as you—the graduates—have had occasion in
the past few years to call upon reserves of diligence
and dedication to scholarship in order to qualify
for your degrees, so have your mothers and fathers
from time to time called on their reserves of tolerance
and understanding in regard to your college activities,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

not all of which, perhaps, were limited to academic
pursuits. So, in extending to the gradautes my con-
gratulations upon their achievements symbolized by
this commencement, I also offer congratulations to
their parents, guardians, and families for providing
the foundations of determination and encouragement
which make the work of the college professor and ad-
ministrator a pleasant task.

Since the president’s role in this exercise is some-
what different from that of the customary commence-
ment speaker, I do not feel compelled to recite the
challenges which a troubled world holds for today’s
young men and women—as real and pervasive as these
challenges may be. Neither do I feel impelled, as a
visiting speaker might, to extoll the virtues of either
George Washington or Robert E. Lee—although the
lives of both of these men are appropriately the sub-
ject of many graduation remarks, not only here but
on other campuses.

Instead, I would like to discuss with you briefly,
during these final moments of your student life on this
campus, some of the influences which have focused on
your lives as students.

1 do not mean the specific influences of new knowl-
edge acquired from lectures, texts, or the storehouse
of information and ideals which is the library. I refer
to the somewhat intangible influences of the traditions
of the University, and I refer especially to the influ-
ences, both contemporary and historical, which are a
part of the student-teacher relationship at a college
like this.

Part of a Larger Tradition

Perhaps as students you have tended to think of
Washington and Lee’s traditions in terms of speaking
on the campus walks, wearing a coat and tie, or elect-
ing a student government which administers, among
other important activities, the cherished Honor Sys-
tem. All of these, especially the Honor System, are im-
portant, but they are not so much traditions in them-
selves as they are a part of the ovenall, historical tra-
dition of the University that has permitted these
practices and customs to develop and flourish here.

The Honor System is, after all, a derivation from
the character of the honorable men who have taught
and studied at Washington and Lee over a span of
more than two centuries. The Honor System presup-
poses not only the honor of the individual, but also a
certain confidence and faith which the individual must
have in his fellow man. As much or more than any
other single influence, this camaraderie of honor binds
the alumni of Washington and Lee into a rather
unique brotherhood, regardless of their geographical
origins, regardless of the special conditions which
obtained when they were students on this campus.

SUMMER 1962

From time to time questions arise as to specific ap-
plications of the Honor System. Different generations
of students may have differing concepts of a definition
of honor, and may question the Honor System in terms
of their definition, but I know of no conceivable chal-
lenge to the basic principles of honor.

The Conduct of Gentlemen

A partner to the concept of honor which is so much
a part of the Washington and Lee tradition is the con-
cept of gentlemanly conduct and bearing by the stu-
dents of this University. Certainly men of honor
studied at this institution prior to the Civil War, as
did men who could be called gentlemen in every
sense of the word. In dating the beginning of the
Honor System, however, it is appropriate to begin
with General Lee’s administration, and certainly Lee’s
answer to the student who asked for a book of rules
provided the solid frame in which to focus the gen-
tleman’s tradition. I know you are all familiar with
his answer: “We have but one rule here, and it is that
every student must be a gentleman!”

The learning process may be little affected by
whether a student wears a coat and tie to class or not.
And with the one notable exception afforded by the
famous Doremus incident, it is difficult to trace truly
tangible results of students’ exchanging greetings
among themselves and with strangers on the campus.
But both of these practices represent a part of the
larger tradition of gentlemanly conduct among stu-
dents. And it might be said that insomuch as these
practices reflect a certain amount of self-concern and
self-pride in the individual as to how he looks and how
he behaves, there may be important carry-over bene-
fits that may affect the concern and pride a student
has in his scholarly achievements. —

But my point is a simple and direct one; the tra-
dition of students who are honorable and who are
gentlemen is a thread that connects two hundred years
of Washington and Lee men. It is a tradition that
fuses with the historical tradition of the University,
emphasizing the impact which the institution has had
on thousands of lives as these students became in spirit
and in fact a part of something that has endured and
will endure. It fuses also with the tradition of ser-
vice and leadership to the nation which students of
Washington and Lee have rendered in war and in
peace. I believe, and I am certain that you will agree,
that you of the class of 1962 have been touched by the
traditions of Washington and Lee, and that the influ-
ence upon you which they have had is significant. If
I am to judge by what I hear from members of form-
er generations of students, the influence these tra-
ditions have will continue to grow as you grow older.

7

As meaningful as these traditions may be to you even
now, I believe they will become even more meaning-
ful as your sense of value becomes more sharply de-
fined through the maturity of active and productive
lives.

There is another tradition at Washington and Lee
that has touched your lives, and it is of such im-
portance as to merit special emphasis at this time.
This is the tradition of dedicated, unselfish, often
seemingly tireless men who have served this Univer-
sity as professors, men whose lives of devotion to
scholarship and teaching punctuate the record of
Washington and Lee’s long history. In this instance, |
do not refer to the presidents or the deans, or the
other administrators—although the history of service
among these men is similarly inspiring—but I speak of
the teaching faculty, men whose influence is inscribed
permanently on the lives of students who were their
pupils and young associates in an adventure of learn-

ing.
The Unique Role of the Faculty

When I spoke near this spot on the University’s
most recent inaugural day, I suggested that the faculty
is, after all, the only unique thing which a college
has to offer. Information can be obtained from books
and journals, read at home or in a library. Laboratory
techniques may be learned on the job. Extracurricular
interests may be served by private and community
clubs and activities. But only in college can be found
the guidance, the association, and the inspiration of
the wise and sympathetic teacher. And in those re-
marks, I noted that a teacher in a great college or
university must be an able communicator of knowl-
edge, an enthusiastic scholar, a patient counsellor. And
I said then that a good faculty should include truly
distinguished scholars in every field of knowledge,
and it should have a balance between mature ex-
perience and youthful aspiration.

Washington and Lee University has been fortun-
ate, and above all, its students have been fortunate, in
the association with this institution of an unbroken
succession of men who have met every qualification of
the good teacher.

Men like Professor Alexander L. Nelson, Cincin-
nati Professor of Mathematics for 52 years in a career
that spanned the antebellum and post-bellum periods
of the institution. Or a contemporary of Professor Nel-
son’s, Professor James A. Harrison, who first insisted
that students should have a competence in English
as a requirement for graduation. He argued, and
effectively so, that English should be on a par with,
and I quote him here, “the languages of Athens and
Rome, with the science of numbers, or with the bugs
and birds of our museum.”

8

Of a later period there were Professors Henry
Donald Campbell, who taught geology and biology,
and Livingston Waddell Smith, who taught mathe-
matics and frequently made his point, it is said, by
smashing chalk against the blackboard from across
the room. There was Professor Addison Hogue who
taught Greek and found the most frequent reasons
for student failures to be “alcoholic beverages, frivol-
ity, and athletics.” I hasten to add that Professor
Hogue belonged to the era of 1894 to 1921.

Professor Edgar Finley Shannon, the late father
of the Washington and Lee alumnus who is now
president of the University of Virginia, was for many
years head of the English Department here. He is
honored in the hearts of all who studied with him.
Forest Fletcher, outstanding Olympic athlete who
became professor of physical education and director
of athletics, was a teacher who influenced young men’s
bodily well-being as well as their minds and characters.
His memory is also recalled through a number of our
athletic trophies, but primarily through the continu-
ing association which students today are privileged
to share with his lovely lady, Mrs. Laura Fletcher,
housemother for Zeta Beta Tau.

Dr. James Lewis Howe, for whom our Howe Hall
is named, was a teacher of chemistry, but he was a
man of such broad interests that students of many
callings were his close associates. Like many others,
Dr. Howe’s scholarship was so profound and_ his
tenure of service so long that his career became some-
what legendary. I am told that freshmen were awed
by the upperclassmen’s tale that Dr. Howe “thought
in German, wrote in Latin and English, and read
Chinese for recreation.”

The List Is Inexhaustible

The list of distinguished teachers and scholars who
have occupied these classrooms and laboratories is, for
my purpose here today, virtually inexhaustible:

Professor Robert Henry Tucker, former dean of
the University but also a great teacher of economics,
who lives today in retirement in Richmond... . Profes-
sor L. J. Desha, for many years a colleague of Dr.
Howe’s on the chemistry faculty and an eminent teach-
er and scholar, who—though no longer a teacher—re-
mains an active member of the University family. His
interest in Washington and Lee and his lively spirit
continue to be an inspiration and a delight to us ail.

From what I have read of him, and from what |]
have heard from those who knew him, there was an-
other professor, Dr. De la War Easter, professor of
romance languages from 1910 until his death in 1933,
in whom apparently were combined many of the
qualities of the ideal professor. Recorded in the files of
old alumni magazines of the University is a description

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

of Dr. Easter which, to my mind, is perhaps a descrip-
tion of so many men who have served this faculty and
this University. It reads this way:

“He is a great teacher in four essential respects:
He possesses a deep and comprehensive knowledge of
his subject. To him teaching is no wearying task, but
is a source of genuine pleasure. He is profoundly in-
terested in young men; he studies the needs of his
students, knows their peculiarities, and is deeply con-
cerned for the advancement and development of each
individual. And with it all, he possesses in a most
marked degree the power of stimulating men and
creating in them a real enthusiasm for study.

“Dr. Easter is never satisfied with a superficial
view of knowledge of any subject he may be interested
in; he delves to the bottom of things and inspires in
his students the same attitude of mind. Accordingly,
the young men who sit under his instruction acquire
more than a mere knowledge of the subjects in hand:
they come forth students in the real sense of the word.”

Understandably, the influences of these men ex-
tended beyond the limits of the lectures and classroom
contacts. Theirs was the opportunity really to know
the students they taught, and if a student fell short
of absorbing all the professor might have to offer in
the way of scholarship and learning, then perhaps
the deficiency was supplemented by a rich measure of
character development and humility that comes from
close friendship with liberally-educated men of in-
tegrity and dedication.

The Tradition Continues Today

If I have recited the names of teachers from Wash-
ington and Lee’s past, I do not mean to suggest that
this tradition lives only in former years. It continues
today, and each and every one of you will take with
you from this campus the imprint which your protes-
sors have made on your minds and characters. It 1s
conceivable, perhaps even likely, that many years
may pass before you become aware just how great
these influences have been in your lives. But I assure
you that you have been touched, and you are the bet-
ter for it.

Two of the University’s most faithful and dedicat-
ed professors are retiring this year. Professor Rupert
N. Latture and Professor Gleason Bean have witnessed
many graduation ceremonies such as this, they have
known many students, and these students have bene-
fited from having known these men. ‘The retirement or
other loss of able men like Professor Latture and Pro-
fessor Bean, and last year, Professor Dickey, poses
special problems for the University, for replacements
must be found. Hopefully, they will be replacements
of a kind whose scholarship and teaching, and their
dedication to both, will make them worthy successors

SUMMER 1962

to these men, and will cause them to become a part
of this living tradition of service to Washington and
Lee and its students.

I do not think it is inappropriate at this point to
comment on the departure from this faculty of anoth-
er man whose presence on this campus has benefited
all whose pleasure it has been to work with him. His
departure is neither his nor the University’s wish, but
because of his special profession he must serve where
directed by higher authority. I refer, of course, to
Major Edward Roxbury, and I know all of you join
me in wishing him and his family continued success.

I believe all of us are aware of the criticisms which
are leveled at the University each academic season by

 

Professor ALLEN MOoGER congratulates
Senior Rosin Woon.

the current generation of students. These may be cri-
ticisms of the bull-session or they may be the critical
questions raised by the columnists whose words
brighten and enliven the pages of the student news-
paper. Each year the faculty and administrators are
confronted with the rather unusual phenomenon of
students who in the course of one to four years dis-
cover, apparently, simple answers to academic and in-
stitutional problems that stump men whose experience
in these matters extends over ten, twenty, thirty years

9

or longer. Sometimes, when the University does not
respond immediately to these obvious solutions, the
critics become quite cynical in their attitude toward
their University. They feel that they have been wit-
nesses to the utter decline of a once-wonderful insti-
tution, and they feel that their experience in this re-
spect is unique and wholly theirs. But student atti-
tudes and concerns have an unusual cycle. I can dem-
onstrate this point by reading an excerpt from a stu-
dent publication of the year 1934. The student author
wrote these words:

“We of the younger generation are proud of our
cynicism. We look life squarely in the face, see its
faults and vices, understand them—rarely, we rise
above them. But ours is not the hard-bitten attitude
of older people who are inconvertibly set and harsh
in their judgment. We can be shaken from our de-
tached viewpoint, made to feel, for a brief instant at
least, that perhaps we are mistaken in our whole out-
look on life. I am so shaken when I look at Washing-
ton and Lee.

“For cynics are prone to base their beliefs on rea-
son and fact, and I can find no reason for what I feel.
Other schools, from a reasonable point of view, are
better than this one. ‘Their equipment is more modern,
their faculties more highly-trained, their student bod-
ies more liberal and intelligent, their campuses as
beautiful. And yet... there is an essential fineness in
this University that I can’t account for, an element
that makes it rise superior to any faults that it has.
‘The fact is disconcerting. It is disconcerting for I see
those faults so plainly.”

The author went on to enumerate shortcomings in
the Honor System, to take issue with the conformity of
conventional dress and the existing code of conduct,
and to criticize the evils of fraternity politics. I quote
again from his article:

“What is this power that, while it does not blind
us ito faults in plain view, makes us rise above them,
recognize that they are incidental to the main current
of life here? What is this spirit that shakes cynics?

“I think it must be the fine lives that have gone

into the building of Washington and Lee. From the
earliest beginning of this institution men have given
it more than they could ever hope to have returned.
‘They have labored and sacrificed, without reward, but
with glorious hope and confidence in their hearts that
some day in some fashion that labor and. sacrifice
would receive its due. Is this their reward, this im-
mortality that shapes young lives in patterns wholly
good? For it is an immortality, perhaps the greatest
that man can receive. Each day we are in communica-
tion with them. Each building we use, each class, each
privilege, each tradition, came from their work.
Shakespeare was wrong—the good these men have done
has not died with them. It is as much alive today as
ever, giving force and meaning to our lives here. I
shall not remember Lee for anything but that which he
gave to this University, for that is the gift that will go
on yielding revenue until the end of time through
men who come into contact with it on this campus.

“No fault, or combination of faults is more power-
ful than the example these men have set us. It rises
above petty politics, breaches of honor, steady, un-
wavering. It is the thing that we will have to remem-
ber in years to come.”

I would like to append this footnote. The author’s
oldest son was a graduate of Washington and Lee four
years ago, and his second son is a member of this
year’s freshman class.

In conclusion, I shall only underscore the words of
that student of another generation: there is indeed an
essential fineness about Washington and Lee that
transcends whatever shortcomings which might tem-
porarily affect it. If we may visualize the day when
all of Washington and Lee’s material and academic
needs are satisfied, so that in faculty, student body,
curriculum, and physical plant it will rank in every
respect alongside the very greatest of institutions, I
believe that Washington and Lee’s essential fineness—
its traditions and heritage—will lift it above its equals
and make this University best of all.

For you, who are a living part of this tradition, I
wish all success in your promising futures.

The student article quoted by President Cole was written
by E. N. S. Girard, *34, and was published in the Southern
Collegian and a subsequent issue of the Alumni Magazine in

1934.

10

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

L-r, WitiiAmM S. MILBURN,

REAR ADM. RoBERT D. Pow-

ERS, JR., MAJ. GEN. CEORGE

R. E. SHELL, and PRESIDENT
COLE.

Citations of Honor

WILLIAM STANFORD MILBURN, administrative assistant, Louis-
ville Public Schools, Louisville, Kentucky.

Educated in the colleges and universities of his native state
of Indiana, Mr. Milburn has devoted his life to serving the
educational needs of young men and women. First as a teacher
in Indiana schools, and later as an official of Louisville public
schools, Mr. Milburn has been an influence for immeasurable
good in the lives of thousands of students who have been
touched by his noteworthy qualities of wisdom, integrity, kind-
ness, and understanding. For thirty years he was principal of
Louisville Male High School, during which time this institu-
tion achieved the stature of one of the South’s finest. Among the
outstanding graduates of Washington and Lee University is an
unusually large number of young men who are also alumni of
Louisville Male High School, men who derived inspiration and

Rear Adm. Robert Davis Powers, fr.

RoBert DAvis Powers, JR., rear admiral, United States Navy,
deputy and assistant judge advocate general for the Navy De-
partment.

A native of Gloucester County, Virginia, Admiral Powers
was educated in the public schools of Portsmouth, Virginia, and
received his Bachelor of Laws degree from Washington and
Lee University. His subsequent practice of law in the city of
Portsmouth, a community of naval traditions, led him to ac-
cept a commission in the U.S. Naval Reserve in 1937, marking
the start of a happy blending of careers of law and service to
his country.

Called to active duty in June, 1941, Admiral Powers began a
distinguished naval acreer which saw him advance steadily from
one position of great responsibility to another of greater re-
sponsibility. Among many important assignments during World

SUMMER 1962

 

William Stanford Milburn

guidance in their academic careers from Mr. Milburn at a
time of vital importance in their youth.

Not only has Mr. Milburn been responsible for the advance-
ment of education in Louisville, but he also has responded to
the civic needs of his community through meritorious service
on the city’s Board of Aldermen, sitting as president of this
body for eight years.

Mr. Milburn is honored here today, partly because he has
been a good and faithful friend of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, but primarily because his service to one of America’s most
important cities, and his influence upon the youth of that city,
single him for distinction among the educators of this nation.
With great admiration and gratitude, Washington and Lee
confers upon him the degree of Doctor of Laws.

War IL was his service as counsel for the Judge Advocate
Naval Court of Inquiry to investigate the Japanese attack on
Pearl Harbor. |

Following a brief release from active duty in 1946, Admiral
Powers was returned to active status with the Regular Navy
in 1947 and resumed his advancement through naval and legal
ranks. In July, 1960, he was designated deputy and assistant
judge advocate general, Navy Department, and a year later
he was promoted to the rank of rear admiral.

His dedicated service to his nation, his scholarship in mat-
ters of international law and other fields, his exemplary merger
of legal and naval careers—all mark Admiral Powers as an
alumnus of unusual distinction. His University is proud to be-
stow upon him its degree of Doctor of Laws.

11

Citations of Honor

Major GENERAL GEORGE RICHARD EDWIN SHELL, superinten-
dent of the Virginia Military Institute.

Virginia Military Institute has greeted “Bud” Shell on two
special occasions. ‘The first was in 1927 when he arrived from
his home in ‘Tidewater Virginia as a lowly fourth classman, a
“brother rat” among many young men viewing the Spartan
ramparts for the first time. The second time was in 1960 when
“Bud” Shell—General “Bud” Shell—returned to become the
ninth man in the Institute’s history to serve as its superinten-
dent, viewing, no doubt, those ramparts with somewhat different
emotions.

Between these auspicious arrivals, General Shell had devoted
thirty-three years to the service of his Alma Mater and to his
nation. Four of those years were spent at VMI where he dis-
tinguished himself as an officer of his class, as an officer of the
cadet corps, and as a varsity athlete. Commissioned a Marine
second lieutenant upon graduation from VMI, General Shell
saw his promotions follow with appropriate regularity, culmi-

Robert Chester Smith

Maj. Gen. George R. E. Shell

nating in 1956 with his elevation to the rank of a general
officer. His wartime record was heroic; he was a battalion com-
mander on Guadalcanal, Tarawa and Saipan. On Saipan he won
the Legion of Merit with Combat “V” and the Purple Heart.

General Shell’s active service as a Marine ended in 1960
when he relinquished command of the Parris Island Recruit
Training Depot to assume the superintendency of VMI. In
addition to qualities which have served him so well as a mili-
tary commander, General Shell possesses also those qualities
which define the perceptive and sensitive academic administra-
tor. His influence at the Institute is felt in a new vigor and
enthusiasm for the future which is held by all those associated
with VMI.

Washington and Lee, guardian of the Institute’s right flank,
seeking to acknowledge the admiration and respect it holds for
its distinguished colleague, friend, and neighbor, confers upon
General Shell its degree of Doctor of Laws.

 

Ropert CHESTER SMITH, vice-president for industrial rela-
tions, Pullman-Standard Division of Pullman, Incorporated, of
Chicago.

A native of nearby Covington, Virginia, and an honor gradu-
ate of Washington and Lee University, Mr. Smith has won dis-
tinction in a career that has included rewarding experiences
as a college teacher, as an official of state and federal government,
and as an executive of one of this nation’s most important
corporations.

Mr. Smith is an acknowledged expert in the vital field of
industrial relations. His understanding of the complex inter-
relationships among citizens in an industrialized society and the
great corporations which employ them has won him admiration
and respect from the leaders of management, labor, and govern-
ment. From time to time, students at this University benefit
directly from his vast storehouse of knowledge and experience
in his field of work, for he has been an effective and inspiring
guest lecturer in classes in the School of Commerce and Admin-
istration.

‘The measure of success which Mr. Smith has achieved in all
he has undertaken is reflected by the high esteem in which he
is held by all who know and work with him, and it is reflected
in the great pride of Washington and Lee University in one of
its most outstanding graduates. The degree of Doctor of Laws
which is bestowed today is richly deserved.

Because of illness, ROBERT C. SMITH could
not accept his honorary degree in person. On

August 15, he died in Chicago of a heart
attack.

 

 

RoBERT C. SMITH

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Pro ) fessors Bean and Latture
Retire as Department Heads

Their Service to University
Spans Total of 82 Years;
Both: to. Work Part -lame

ETIREMENT CAME this June for
R two of Washington and Lee
University’s most popular and most
respected professors and depart-
ment heads.

Prof. Rupert Nelson  Latture
stepped down as head of the De-
partment of Political Science, while
Dr. William Gleason Bean ended
his tenure as head of the Depart-
ment of History. Both are 70 years
old.

Although they will no longer
shoulder responsibilities of depart-  .
ment heads, both will continue to Dr. BEAN will continue to teach his
serve Washington and Lee in part- specialties—the Old South and the Civil
time capacities. Professor Latture Way And @ SOpN Om ere Secuen Orta

. : . can History.
will be a special advisor to the
President’s office; Dr. Bean will
continue to teach two classes three
days a week.

Behind them are virtual life-
times of devoted service to Wash-
ington and Lee. Together, they
have spent 82 years in Washington
and Lee’s classrooms—42 for Profes-
sor Latture, 40 for Dr. Bean. Hun-
dreds, perhaps thousands, of stu-
dents have studied under their
guidance since the start of their
teaching careers in the early 1920's.

Their teaching has spanned the
administrations of four University

 

 

. . - Mr. Latrrure has been named special
presidents, and there is a coinciden- advisor to the Office of the President.

SUMMER 1962 13

tal link that joins them with still
another. Professor Latture was a
freshman at Washington and Lee
in 1912 when President George H.
Denny resigned to become presi-
dent of the University of Alabama,
where Dr. Bean was a sophomore.

Professor Latture went on to
earn A.B. and M.A. degrees at
Washington and Lee, and after
war duty in Europe, he joined the
political science faculty in 1920 as
an assistant professor.

Dr. Bean received his A.B. de-
gree at Alabama, then went to
Harvard for his M.A. in 1916 and
his Ph.D. in 1922, the same year he
was appointed assistant professor
of history at Washington and Lee.

President Henry L. Smith was in
office then, and Professor Latture
and Dr. Bean served subsequently
under acting President Robert H.
Tucker, and through the 29 years
of President Francis P. Gaines’ ad-
ministration. They were valued
counsellors to President Fred C.
Cole during the first three years of
his office. :

Dr. Bean became history depart-
ment head in 1930; Professor Lat-
ture was named political science de-
partment head in 1941.

As a teacher, Dr. Bean is best re-
membered for his courses in the
history of the Civil War and the
Old South. He is a_ recognized
scholar of the Civil War, and cur-
rently serves on the executive com-
mittee of the Virginia Civil War
Centennial Commission. Professor
Latture’s academic emphasis was
divided between political science
and sociology. Among his most
popular classes were studies of com-
parative political systems and crim-
inology. |

Professor Latture has also worked
in various administrative capacities
at Washington and Lee. Since 1938
he has been director of freshman
work, and he has served as advisor
to foreign students studying at
Washington and Lee under the
State Department’s exchange pro-

14

gram. He also has substituted for
the Dean of the University, the
Dean of Students, the Registrar,
and other University officers. Dur-
ing World War II, he was Dean of
Students for two years for the hand-
ful of students who remained on
the rolls. For many years he has
served as editor of the Catalogue,
and will continue to assist in this.

In addition to their part-time du-
ties at Washington and Lee, the
two professors expect to keep busy
in other ways.

Dr. Bean has a number of writ-
ing and travel projects to work on,
including a history of the Liberty
Hall Volunteers. There is his gar-
den to tend, and there will con-
tinue to be the long walks along
the back roads of Rockbridge Coun-
ty with Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw, the
professor who has succeeded Dr.
Bean as department head.

One of Professor Latture’s big re-
tirement projects will be compila-
tion of a complete history and di-
rectory of Omicron Delta Kappa,

the famous national honorary lead-
ership fraternity which Professor
Latture helped found as an under-
graduate at Washington and Lee
in 1914. With the 50th anniversary
of the founding of the fraternity
coming up in two years, Professor
Latture expects to play an import-
ant role in the planning for the
national convention to be held
then in Roanoke.

While Dr. Bean has been a popu-
lar statewide lecturer and speaker
on the Civil War, Professor Lat-
ture’s outside interests have been
related primarily to civic and
church activities. He has served on
the county welfare board, and he is
an Elder in the Presbyterian
Church. Both men are active in the
academic and professional organi-
zations to which they belong. Both
are members of Phi Beta Kappa.

Dr. Bean was born in Heflin,
Ala., and served as a lieutenant
with the American Expeditionary
Forces in France during World
War I. Professor Latture was born

Prof. George Irwin’s Retirement

Climaxes 37 Years as a Teacher

Although he was not a depart-
ment head, nor the kind of profes-
sor whose classroom performances
become legendary, he was another
of the many dedicated men whose
lives have been devoted to the
teaching of young men at Wash-
ington and Lee.

Professor George Junkin Irwin,
associate professor of Romance
Languages, also retired this June,
at the age of 65, after 37 years on
the University faculty.

For several years Professor Irwin
has been in failing health, and his
absences from his classes were re-
erettably long and frequent. He is
now a patient in the Blue Ridge

Sanitorium near Charlottesville.

Professor Irwin is a graduate of
Washington and Lee’s class of 1920.
He pursued graduate study at
Princeton from 1921 to 1925, where
he was a Herbert Montgomery Ber-
gen Fellow. He also studied at Co-
lumbia University’s graduate divi-
sion in Romance Languages.

He joined the Washington and
Lee faculty in 1925 as an assistant
professor, and in 1956 he was pro-
moted to associate professor. A na-
tive Lexingtonian, Professor Irwin
also was a veteran of World War I
service as a member of Washing-
ton and Lee’s volunteer ambulance
corps.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PRESIDENT COLE asked Dr.
BEAN and ProrF. LATTURE to
stand for special recognition
at the 1962 Commencement
ceremony.

near Bristol, Va., and also served
during World War I as one of the
select members of the Foyer du
Soldat, a morale-boosting branch of
the French Army. He also was an
interpreter for the A.E.F. and was
decorated with the French Croix
de Guerre.

SUMMER 1962

 

Washington and Lee’s loss is
their wives’ gain. Dr. Bean has
just assisted Mrs. Bean, the form-
er Lucy B. Marsteller to whom he
was married 35 years ago, with a
major redecoration of their home
on White Street. And Mrs. Latture,
the former Roberta Fulton who be-

came the professor’s bride 45 years
ago, has had her husband on the
road for visits with their son and
daughter.

Wallpaper and paint, and ex-
uberant young grandchildren—such
are some of the rewards of retire-
ment.

15

 

ASHINGTON AND LEE’s football

Generals—their ranks decimat-
ed by graduation losses—face two
major challenges in the forthcom-
ing 1962 season.

First, they'll be trying to con-
tinue the team’s heady undefeated
record of nineteen consecutive
games. The streak extends back to
the final game of the 1959 cam-
paign, and the seniors on_ this
year’s squad have never played in
a losing varsity contest.

Second, they have a chance to
become the first football champions
of the new College Athletic Con-
ference, formed earlier this year by
Washington and Lee and _ four
other colleges with similar athletic
programs.

Both tasks will take some doing,
for the Generals lost twenty-one
lettermen from the all-winning
1961 team, and the personnel sit-
uation at two key positions seems
critical.

Even so, Head Coach Lee Mc-
Laughlin refuses to take refuge in
that coachly strategem of the cry-
ing towel. In the first place, it’s
not his nature to bemoan his losses,
and in the second place, he won't
find too many of his colleagues will-
ing to believe him.

“Naturally, we’re going to miss
boys like Terry Fohs, Steve Suttle,
Tommy Goodwin, and _ Charlie
Gummey, but we still have some of
the best boys it’s been my pleasure
to coach in college, and I think
we'll have a successful season,” Mc-
Laughlin explains. “Whether we'll
remain undefeated or not is an-
other matter. It’s up to the boys
themselves. It’s going to be a real
challenge to them. If we can solve
our problems at guard and center, I
believe we'll have a good year.”

The four boys McLaughlin nam-
ed were All-State performers last
year, and Fohs—the 145-pound line-
backer—won second team Little
All-American honors. He and sev-
enteen other seniors were with Mc-
Laughlin for four years of varsity

16

Sports
Roundup

ball, and their loss shortstops two
of the Generals’ long suits of the
past two years—depth and experi-
ence.

Heaviest losses were at center
and guard. Besides Fohs, McLaugh-
lin lost his offensive center, Jerry
Hyatt, and among the guards, five
of the first six are among the mis-
sing. For the first time in eight
years, there seem to be plenty of
capable tackles, and the ends are
the best ever under McLaughlin. In
the backfield, McLaughlin’ was
prepared for the graduation of
quarterback Suttle, halfback Jim
Russ, and fullback Doug Martin,
but he didn’t expect the academic
demise of halfback Gummey.

All the same, McLaughlin feels
the backfield combination of quar-
terback Chuck Lane, halfbacks
Henry Sackett and Stuart Yoffe,
and fullback Tommy Keesee is po-
tentially his best ever here.

The season opener is Septem-
ber 22 at Hampden-Sydney, where
the Tigers haven’t forgotten how
close they came to upsetting the
Generals in the curtain-raiser last
season. They lost by only 7-6. The
home opener is a week later when

 

1962 Football Schedule

Sept. 22 At Hampden-Sydney
Sept. 29 Lebanon Valley
Oct. 6 At Emory & Henry
Oct. 13 At Randolph-Macon
Oct. 20 Johns Hopkins
Oct. 27 Franklin & Marshall
Nov. 3 At Centre
Nov. 10 Sewanee
Nov. 17 At Southwestern

 

 

 

alumnus Bill McHenry, ’52, brings
his Lebanon Valley College team
to Wilson Field. After that, the
Generals meet Emory & Henry and
Randolph-Macon on the road,
play Johns Hopkins for Home-
coming and Franklin & Marshall
for Parents’ Weedend, and then
take on their conference opponents
with games at Centre, with Sewanee
on Wilson Field, and at South-
western in the season wind-up.

* #* *

m WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY of St.
Louis became the fifth member of
the College Athletic Conference
this summer, joining with Wash-
ington and Lee, Centre, South-
western at Memphis, and the Uni-
versity of the South in the new
athletic association.

The Washington Bears are not
on the Generals’ football schedule
this year for the first time in eight
seasons, but they are expected to
return in future campaigns. Wash-
ington has given no athletic grants-
in-aid since 1946, but the Bears
have fared  creditably against
strong opposition in all sports.

m SOME SPRING SPORTS weren’t very
kind to the Generals, or perhaps it
was the other way around. The
baseball team wound up with a 1-
11-1 record, the lacrosse squad had
a dismal 1-10 season, although
goalie Ray Muller earned second-
team All-America recognition, and
even the track team, while winning
five, lost a meet for the first time
in three years. The Golfers were
5-3, and the tennis team, with many
fine youngsters coming up, was 6-3.

For the year in intercollegiate
competition, Washington and Lee
varsity, Jayvee, and freshman teams
finished with an overall record of
82-81-2. Delta Tau Delta won the
three major intramural awards, but
there still were no handball play-
ers among the students who could
handle any one of the first eight
faculty team members.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

News of the University

Largest Student Body

In 13 Years Expected

EGISTRATION of Washington and

Lee’s largest student body in
thirteen years gets underway Sep-
tember 14.

Anticipated enrollment for the
1962-63 academic year is 1,231—
forty-five more than last fall’s fig-
ure. The last time the university’s
fall enrollment climbed above the
1,200 figure was in 1949-50. ‘The up-
surge in enrollment then was
caused by the continued influx of
World War II veterans.

Initial classes for Washington
and Lee’s 214th academic year be-
gin at 8:25 a.m. September 19.

A record 333-man freshman class
will arrive in Lexington September
12 for a three-day orientation camp
at nearby Natural Bridge. The in-
coming freshman class tops the
1961 freshman total by eighteen.

The University’s School of Law
expects some 135 students for the
session, including 55 men entering
for the first time in September.

The opening of the new academ-
ic year will mark the first use of
Washington and Lee’s $1,500,000
science facilities. They include a
new four-story building for the de-
partments of physics and biology
plus a new wing and remodeled
classrooms and laboratories for
geology and chemistry in the exist-
ing science building, Howe Hall.

Ninty-one members of the new
freshman class will be housed in a
four-story dormitory completed this
summer. The new dormitory was

SUMMER 1962

buult at a cost of $400,000. Use of
this dormitory will enable Wash-
ington and Lee to eliminate hous-
ing any freshmen in auxiliary
dormitories.

A 15-bed university infirmary—
located in the basement of the new
freshman dormitory—will be put
into service for the first time in
September. The infirmary will be
used in treating students with min-
or illnesses and non-communicable
diseases. ‘Treatment of seriously-ill
students will continue at Lexing-
ton’s Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

Construction crews will continue
restoration work on the univer-
sity’s historic Lee Chapel through-
out the 1962-63 school year. Work
on the nearly 100-year-old chapel
is being done through a grant of
$370,000 from the Ford Motor
Company Fund. University officials
hope to re-open the national land-
mark in June, 1963.

FRESHMEN entering in September
are the first group of new men re-
quired to take three achievement
tests administered by the College
Entrance Examination Board of
Princeton, N. J. These tests are in
addition to the previously required
Scholastic Aptitude Test of the
CEEB which has been required of
all entering freshmen since 1951.
Washington and Lee is believed
to be the first men’s college in the
South to require applicants to sub-
mit achievement test results. ‘The

University also invites, but does not
require, applicants to submit the
CEEB’s “writing sample,” a method
of appraising an applicant’s skill in
composition.

m# DEAN OF ADMISSIONS Frank J. Gul-
liam, back on the job after several
months’ recuperation from a heart
attack, says that sixty-three per cent
of the 1962 freshman class will
come from Southern and so-called
“border” states. He says some fifty-
eight per cent of the class members
are graduates of public schools.
There were 1,332 completed appli-
cations for September admission
filed with the Admissions Office,
Dean Gilliam reports.

Associate Dean of Admissions
James D. Farrar, who directs the
University program of student
financial aid and scholarships, re-
ports that fifty-nine freshmen will
receive a total of $49,695 in finan-
cial aid for the 1962-63 academic
session. |

 

B EIGHT MEMBERS of the Washing-
ton and Lee faculty have received
promotions which are effective Sep-
tember 1.

Seven of the promotions were
announced by Dean of the College
Willham W. Pusey ILI, while the
eighth was named by Dr. Lewis W.
Adams, Dean of the School of Com-
merce and Administration.

Named full professors were Dr.
C. Westbrook Barritt, ’43, associate
professor of romance languages,
and Dr. Jay D. Cook, Jr., ’43, asso-
clate professor of accounting.

Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, ’48,
and Dr. Cecil D. Eby, Jr., both as-
sistant professors of English, were
made associate professors.

Instructors promoted to assistant
professor were William W. Chaf-
fin, English and public speaking;
John K. Jennings, ’56, journalism;

=

17

 

and Norris W. Eastman and E.
Graham Leslie, ’49, physical edu-
cation.

@ DOUBLE HONOR came to Dr. James
G. Leyburn, professor of sociology
and former Dean of the Univer-
sity, this Spring.

On June 4, Dr. Leyburn was hon-
ored by Duke University when it
conferred upon him the honorary
Doctor of Law degree. He was one
of five men singled out for dis-
tinction this year by Duke Univer-
sity. Dr. Leyburn is an alumnus of
‘Trinity College of Duke University,
and also holds degrees from Prince-
ton (M.A.) and Yale (Ph.D.).

Earlier, in May, Dr. Leyburn’s
3747-page study of the social history
of the Scotch-Irish was published
by the University of North Caro-
lina Press. ‘he book is entitled
The Scotch-Irish: A Social History.

In the book, Dr. Leyburn traces
the three principal chapters of the
progress of the Scotch-Irish, includ-
ing their life in Scotland, their
removal to Northern Ireland, and
their subsequent migrations to
America. He dispels much of what
he terms the “mythology” of the
Scotch-Irish.

m AN ARTICLE by Dr. L. L. Barrett,
professor and head of the Depart-
ment of Romance Languages, has
been selected for translation and
publication in an anthology of
articles on Spanish-American and
Brazilian linguistic and _ literary
subjects.

Dr. Barrett’s critical study of the
technique of Erico Verissimo, Bra-
zil’s leading novelist, will be in-
cluded in a book designed for dis-
tribution throughout Latin Amert-
ca as a gesture of good will and
evidence of the interest of North
American scholars in the cultures
of the other Americas.

m DR. HARMON H. HAYMES and Dr.
Charles F. Phillips, Jr., both assist-
ant professors of economics, have
collaborated on an article on price

18

 

ALFRED KELLEHER, left, of the Research
Corporation, presents DEAN WILLIAM W.
Pusey, Il, with first check for $15,000

control appearing in the summer
issue of Business Horizons.
Entitled ‘“ ‘Psychological’ Price
Control: Meddling or Master-
stroke?” the article concludes that
the United States should make cer-
tain there is a truly free market,
and then rely on its mechanisms, in
conjunction with a balanced mone-
tary-fiscal policy, for control.

# DR. JOHN H. WISE, professor of
chemistry, attended a_ three-week
conference on molecular structure
and spectroscopy at Case Institute
of Technology in Cleveland in
July. In August, he took part in a
two-week conference at the Uni-
versity of Florida in Gainesville,
dealing with nuclear and electron
spin resonance. Both conferences
were sponsored by the National
Science Foundation.

B HENRY L. RAVENHORST, associate
professor of engineering, was a par-
ticipant in a conference at Dart-
mouth College, Hanover, N. H.,
dealing with structural properties
of materials. ‘This meeting also was
sponsored by the National Science
Foundation.

g DR. THOMAS P. HUGHES, associate
professor of history, presented a
paper on “Academic Response to
the Rise of the Electrical Industry,
1880-1900” at the Voth annual
meeting of the American Society
for Engineering Education, held at
the U.S. Air Force Academy in
Colorado Springs, Colo.

 

m A GRANT of $30,000 to Washing-
ton and Lee University has been
made by the Research Corporation
of New York.

President Cole said Washington
and Lee will use the grant to
strengthen its science program
through the addition of critically-
needed professors to its science
faculty. ‘The sum is to be expended
at the rate of $15,000 annually over
a two-year period.

President Cole said the grant re-
flects a recent shift in the Research
Corporation’s policy which now en-
ables the philanthropic organiza-
tion to devote increasing amounts
of its resources to the support of
science instruction and_ research
through unrestricted grants to lib-
eral arts colleges. Previously, the
Research Corporation’s aid to edu-
cation was largely in support of in-
dividual research projects conduct-
ed by individual professors.

President Cole said the grant in-
dicated the Research Corporation’s
confidence that Washington and
Lee possesses the potential to de-
velop as a significant leader in the
preparation of future scientists.

m@ WASHINGTON AND LEE was one of
302 colleges and universities shar-
ing in $3,730,634 granted by the
National Science Foundation in in-
stitutional grants to be used at the
discretion of recipients to help
meet needs in science education
and research.

Washington and _ Lee’s
amounted to $5,135.

share

m THE UNIVERSITY also received an
additional grant of $2,254 from
the National Science Foundation
for the support of undergraduate
research in physics.

@ THE CHARLESTON FOUNDATION for
Research, established by the late
Dr. Gustav B. Capito, ’99, has pre-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

B

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

sented Washington and Lee with
a gift of $2,500 to be used in ad-
vancing the University’s Robert E.
Lee Research Program for Under-
graduates. Dr. Capito’s gift of near-
ly $300,000, presented to Wash-
ington and Lee shortly before his
death, endows the program. ‘The
Charleston Foundation’s grant is
the second it has made in support
of the program.

g NINETEEN VIRGINIA and Washing-
ton, D.C., daily newspapers and a
Virginia radio station made contri-
butions to the Frank Fuller Wire
Fund of the Lee Memorial Journal-
ism Foundation.

Their gifts make possible a full
teletype news service of the Asso-
ciated Press for use by Washington
and Lee journalism students. ‘The
fund honors Frank Fuller, long-
time chief of the Richmond bureau
of the Associated Press. Josiah P.
Rowe III, ’48, general manager of
the Fredericksburg Free Lance-Star
solicited contributions for the fund
this year. —

 

m WORK ON THE restoration of Lee
Chapel began on schedule in early
June, and in a week’s time it looked
as though the front campus never
would be the same again.

The work force built a frame
building almost as big as the Chap-
el itself to house their tools and

SUMMER 1962

things, and then they put up a big
fence to keep the tourists away.
Pipes and other materials began to
stockpile on the surrounding lawn,
and then came a machine that exca-
vated a big part of the lawn right
in front of the Chapel to make
room for the underground air-con-
ditioning and heating equipment.

Meanwhile, inside the Chapel,
workers built a big box around the
Recumbent Statue to protect it.
Earlier, other workers had removed
all movable items lke furniture,
museum relics, and portraits. Next,
they stripped the plaster from the
ceiling, and by late August, the
slate roof was being peeled off, ex-
posing the old beams that had not
seen the sunlight since 1867.

Left, the University’s new science
building is ready for the opening
session. It is the new home of the
physics and biology departments.
Below, restoration of Lee Chapel
goes on behind high board fence,
while ditches are dug near Payne
Fall.

     

Two large display signs were
erected by the University to explain
to visitors what was happening.

On the back campus, things were
Just as unsightly, but this was noth-
ing new there. The new building
for physics and biology was virtual-
ly complete, ready for the depart-
ments to move in, but the landscap-
ing remained to be done, and over
at Howe Hall there was a lot more
than landscaping worrying the
chemistry and geology people.

‘The general remodeling of Howe
Hall seemed to be behind schedule,
but an increase in the work force
raised hopes that the building
would be ready for students in Sep-
tember.

While blasting to make a new

1g

route for the access road to the
University heating plant, a large
charge of explosives made a bigger
bang than apparently was expect-
ed. A rock gouged a big hole in a
nearby automobile, and inside the
adjacent print shop, a fluorescent
light tube came crashing down on-
to a linotype machine and its op-
erator. No one was hurt. Many were
scared.

To accommodate underground
cables and pipes, a trench was dug
between the area of the print shop
and Lee Chapel, running between
Payne and Newcomb Halls. One
tourist, observing the earthworks
thrown up by the ditch-digging
machine, remarked that “You all
must think the Yankees are coming
back.”

 

g MAJ. EDwarRD J. Roxbury, Jr., pro-
fessor of military science and head
of Washington and Lee’s Army
R.O.'T.C. program for the past
three years, has been reassigned to
the Armed Forces Staff College in
Norfolk, Va.

Major Roxbury’s transfer is in
keeping with normal Army rota-
tion of officers and enlisted men as-
signed to R.O. T.C. duty.

Of all the men who have headed
the University’s military depart-
ment since its beginning in 1951,
Major Roxbury seemed to fit most
easily into the assignment. A one-
time resident of Lexington, he had
married a Lexington girl, Lucy
Barger, so the Washington and Lee
assignment represented a home-
coming for him. He also was com-
fortably at home in the academic
community, for he held the B.S.
degree from the United States Mili-
tary Academy and the M.A. degree
from Columbia University, and he
had been an assistant professor of
social science at West Point and
advisor to the dean of the Korean
Military Academy near Seoul.

20

Respected and admired by fac-
ulty and students alike, Major Rox-
bury was praised in President
Cole’s graduation remarks for the
contribution he had made to the
University.

There has been no announce-
ment of Major Roxbury’s successor.

 

m@ PHILIP K. YONGE, ’39, has been
named visiting professor of law at
Washington and Lee.

Professor Yonge’s appointment
is effective September 1 and he will
teach fulltime. He is completing
work at Yale University for his
doctor of juridical science degree.

In announcing Professor Yonge’s
appointment, Dean Charles P.
Light, Jr., also said that Professor
Charles R. McDowell, a member
of the Washington and Lee law fac-
ulty since 1927, will teach half of
each week during the 1962-63 ses-
sion as visiting professor at the
University of Virginia Law School.
Professor McDowell will continue
to teach at Washington and Lee
on a part time basis during this
period.

Robert R. Huntley, associate
professor of law, will return to the
Washington and Lee faculty in
September. He has been on leave
as a Graduate Fellow at the Harv-
ard Law School this year.

Professor Yonge, who received
his A.B. degree, summa cum laude,
from Washington and Lee in 19309,
is a 1942 graduate of the University
of Florida Law School. After ser-
vice with the U.S. Army Air Force
in World War II, he practiced law
in Pensacola, Fla., for two years.

m ANDREW W. MC THENIA, JR., 58, of
Alderson, W. Va., will serve as edi-
tor-in-chief of the Washington and
Lee Law Review during the 1962
fall semester.

McThenia, who was. student
body president during the 1961-62

session, will direct a staff which will
include James L. Howe III, of Phil-
adelphia; ‘Timothy G. Ireland and
John W. Johnson, both of Akron,
Ohio; and Jay F. Wilks, of Hamp-
ton, Va.

 

mg THE STUDENT

Interfraternity
Council has abolished social fra-
ternities’ traditional second semes-
ter “Hell Week.”

A majority of the presidents of
the University’s 18 fraternities ap-
proved the complete abolition of
pledging activities normally held
during the first week of the second
semester. ‘The move is the first re-
sult of an intensive and continu-
ing study of the relationship of the
fraternity system to the University
currently being made by the Inter-
fraternity Council (IFC).

Potentially dangerous freshman
hazing practices were virtually
eliminated at Washington and Lee
in April, 1956. Fraternities were
urged then to plan constructive ac-
tivities for pledges during the re-
vamped “Hell Week’’—subsequent-
ly called “Help Week” by some fra-
ternities.

IFC members, however, felt that
even this version of pledging ac-
tivities interfered with the fresh-
men’s studies.

Still under study by the IFC is
the present fraternity rush system.
Washington and Lee’s rushing is
conducted during the first week of
the school year.

“The Interfraternity Council’s
abolition of ‘Hell Week’ and the
continuing study of the fraternity
system on our campus is another il-
lustration of responsible student
self-government at Washington and
Lee,” Dean of Students Edward C.
Atwood, Jr., said.

mw THE UNIVERSITY’S splendid debate
team capped off a highly successful
season by capturing the ‘Television

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Shenandoah . .
An Excellent

‘Little’ Magazine

HENANDOAH, Washington and

Lee’s “little” magazine, has an
excellent reputation among the
people who read it, but its major
problem is the paucity of those who
have the opportunity to see it.

For twelve years now, since its
beginning in 1950, Shenandoah’s
editorial board of faculty members
has directed its publication along
experimental lines. Originally con-
ceived as a joint student-faculty
venture, it had a joint editorial
board during its first year, and then
until 1958, a student served as
editor-in-chief. Since 1958, when
the faculty editorial board assumed
full control of the publication,
each issue has been edited by a fac-
ulty board member on a rotating
basis.

This spring, the board  an-
nounced that a further change was
forthcoming, and with it, plans to
lift Shenandoah from its relative
obscurity with only 500 subscribers
to a place of prominence, not only

 

Editor JAMES BOATWRIGHT ponders new job.

in Virginia, but in the nation.

The editorial change involved
the appointment of a full-time edi-
tor who would serve for a year and
be subject to re-election by the edi-
torial board. The board chose as
its first editor James Boatwright,
a young English instructor who
would be relieved of part of his
teaching duties to engage in Shen-
andoah work.

The new plans for increased cir-
culation meant that Shenandoah
would become a quarterly, which
was what it was designed to be in
the first place, and thus would be
accepted by the national distribut-
ing agency which handles such “Lit-
tle’ magazines. National distribu-
tion would mean the opportunity
for increased subscriptions, in-
creased advertising, increased rev-
enue, better articles, more prom-
inent contributors, and all the oth-
er good things that can happen to
a “‘little’ magazine, like the Ken-
yon Review, the Sewanee Review,

the Yale Review, or the Virginia
Quarterly. And the quarterly pub-
lication would enable the maga-
zine to qualify for a second-class
mailing permit and subsequent
postal savings.

Boatwright is optimistic, but
realistic, about the prospects for
Shenandoah’s enlarged success. In
one respect, the magazine is caught
in a tough cycle that will be hard
to interrupt.

“The magazine won't become
more widely known until it attracts
better manuscripts, and it can’t at-
tract better manuscripts until it
becomes more widely known,’ he
explains. When the national dis-
tributor starts work, this problem
will be at least partially solved.

Boatwright says the magazine
also needs stability, and he feels
that one editor, working for a full
year, will help give it this. He feels
the special issues usually related to
a specific author or subject, pre-
pared by the various editorial

 

Debate Championship of North
Carolina from Wake Forest College
in May.

The three-man Washington and
Lee team of Al Eckes, of Bradford,
Pa., Bill Noell, of Bluefield, W.Va.,
and Bill Boardman, of Columbus,
Ohio, won their third straight
match over North Carolina oppon-
ents with a unanimous decision

SUMMER 1962

over the Deacons. Davidson College
and the University of North Caro-
lina were earlier victims.

Washington and Lee was the
only team to emerge unbeaten in
the television debates carried on
Chapel Hill’s WUNC-TV during
the spring months.

In addition to the ‘TV success,
the Washington and Lee team also

won the Tau Kappa Alpha Vir-
ginia State Championship earlier
in the year. Included in the team’s
activities this year have been four-
teen tournaments, six television
shows, a discussion conference and
several demonstration debates.

Coach of the successful debaters
is William W. Chaffin of the Eng-
list Department.

21

 

board members have been excel-
lent, some exceptionally excellent,
but he feels general readers aren’t
interested in special issues of vary-
ing subject matter.

The new editor, whose first issue
will appear this fall, hopes to fill
Shenandoah’s sixty-four-plus pages
with essays on the arts, criticism of
a general nature—as contrasted to
scholarly criticism—a great deal of
poetry, fiction, and reviews of im-
portant books. Fictional contribu-
tors pose the biggest hurdle, for as
Boatwright explains, if it’s good
fiction, there’s a market for it some-
where else.

Boatwright has spent long hours
studying lists of former contribu-
tors—and there have been some out-
standing names among them—look-
ing for possible leads for new con-
tributions. Just in recent years,
Shenandoah has carried such by-
lines as Arnold ‘Toynbee, William
Faulkner, Katherine Anne Porter,
Stephen Spender, and Peter Vier-
eck, and many other professional
authors, as well as outstanding
scholars at other educational insti-
tutions. There have been contribu-
tions by Washington and Lee fac-
ulty members and, occasionally, a
student contribution.

Especially, Boatwright hopes to
collect more comment on contem-
porary French and German letters,
as well as the literature of England
and the Americas.

He hopes to keep Shenandoah
from becoming a “regional” maga-
zine, although he is aware that its
very title suggests the South.

But his main concern is finding
more readers—readers among the
students, among the faculty, among
the alumni, and among the literary
general public. And he adds, for
the benefit of alumni interested in
keeping abreast of fresh ideas in
arts and letters, that subscriptions
are available at the rate of $3 for
a year’s four issues, or $5 for two
years. The address is Shenandoah,
Box 722, Lexington, Va.

22

Thirteen Volunteers Return

Washington and Lee’s

World War I Ambulance Unit
Holds Its First Reunion

1. DUSTY VOLUME of Washing-

ton and Lee’s war record was re-
opened this spring to one of its
brightest pages. Men who helped
write this episode returned to Lex-
ington to renew old friendships and
relive the experiences of a time
when they thought they could help
make the world safe for democracy.

‘They were the members of Am-
bulance Unit SSU 534, recruited
from Washington and Lee’s student
body in 1917 for service with the
French army. Of the thirty-six orig-
inal volunteer members of the unit,
thirteen joined in its first official re-
union on May 27-29.

The reunion program was mostly
informal. R. Bruce Morrison, ’17,
Lexington banker and insurance
man who was among the 1917 vol-
unteers, was host to his former com-
rades at a luncheon at his home,
and the University played host at
an evening banquet in Evans Din-
ing Hall. There were guided tours
of the campus, but mostly the re-
union participants were on their
own, with plenty of time to remin-
isce and trade war stories.

Among the memories was the day
in 1917 when University President
Henry Louis Smith addressed the
student body and asked for vol-
unteers to help form small ambu-
lance units for duty in France,
where the French Army was suffer-
ing heavy casualties. ‘The French
Government had asked the United

States to recruit men for this pur-
pose, and the U.S. General Order
75 provided the authority by which
the nation, still officially neutral in
the war, could send non-combatant
personnel to Europe.

President Smith’s appeal was a
persuasive one, for more than
the desired number of 36 men vol-
unteered. Of those selected, most
stayed with SSU 534 throughout
the war, although some were spread
among ithe 5,000 other college stu-
dents who trained for ambulance
duty at Allentown, Pa.

SSU 534 left the United States in
January, 1918. Prior to departure,
nine members were transferred to
another unit, while eleven men
from other units were sent to the
Washington and Lee contingent as
replacements.

In France, the unit was attached
to the French 12th Infantry Divi-
sion and remained with this or-
ganization until the war’s end.
They drove Model-T Ford ambu-
lances in moving wounded French-
men to and from aid stations and
hospitals. They were often under
fire, and men of the unit won nine
Croix de Guerre and several Pur-
ple Heart medals for bravery and
battle wounds. The Washington
and Lee unit itself received two ci-
tations from the French Army.

The late Forest Fletcher, former
Notre Dame athlete and Olympic
star who taught and coached at

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ay

This picture of
SSU 534 appeared
in the Calyx after
the unit reported
for training at
Allentown, Pa.

Washington and Lee, was first
sergeant of the unit. Commander
of the unit was Lt. E. S. Nichols,
now a doctor in Miami, Fla. Of the
original 36 who left Lexington,
only one was killed. He was J. P.
Green, °18, who was transferred
subsequently to the tank corps and
died shortly after his unit reached
France.

 

Posing for the official reunion photograph are, seated, l-r, the Rev. R. G. WOMELDORE,

SUMMER 1962

SSU 534 was inactivated in June,
1919, and some members who were
students previously returned to
earn degrees at Washington and
Lee.

Credit for the reunion goes to
William E. Roth of Austin, Tex.,
who was attached to the Washing-
ton and Lee unit at Allentown.
Roth, along with Morison and H.

 

L. Moore, ’20, of Blacksburg, Va.,
wrote surviving members to map
reunion plans.

Each of the thirteen men who
joined the reunion was presented
with a souvenir booklet by the Uni-
versity in which was recorded an
official history of the SSU 534 and
a picture of the men in their World
War I uniforms.

‘17, R. BRucE Morrison, 17, WILLIAM E. Mc-
KINNEY, WILLIAM E. Roto, HArry L. Moore, ’20, and Owen W. His er, ’21; standing, l-r, are KARL H. JOHNSON, ’20, RALPH R. Moore,
CARL C. Moore, 13, E. L. Mason, ’20, Dr. DAvip MATHENY, PAUL D. PICKENS, 17, and GLENN W. MARSHALL.

23

 

Anniversary Re

Merger Is

HE POPULAR ANNIVERSARY CLASS Reunions were

merged this year with the 14th annual John Ran-
dolph Tucker Lectures in Law and the Law School
Association’s Law Day.

 

The result was one of the most successful alumni
events in many years on the Washington and Lee cam-
pus. Several hundred alumni and wives from the
classes of 1912, 1922, 1937, and 1952 were joined by
law alumni from many other classes for the busy
two-day schedule, May 4-5.

Orison S. Marden, president of the Association
of the Bar of the City of New York, was the Tucker
lecturer, and his two Lee Chapel addresses were well-
attended by non-law alumni as well as the law classes.

Also on the program was a reception at the home

 

 

Tucker Lecturer ORISON S. MARDEN chats with Law School DEAN CHARLES
P. Licut, former DEAN CLAYTON E. WILLIAMS, and PRESIDENT FRED C. COLE
at Lee Chapel

 

These members of the Class of 1912 returned for their 50th anniver
Rosert R. BLAKE, the REV. W. GRAHAM Woop, JUDGE ARLOsS J. HARBI
a aoe ing, l-r, are CLARE H. MARSTILLER, Dr. JoseEPpH M. HoLLoway, RU!
WiLtiAM H. ROBINSON, RICHARD BROOKE, and JAMES A. BLALOCK, all of HEAVENER, FREEMAN H. Hart, CLAYTON E. WILLIAMS, DANIEL W. M
the law class of 1937, visit the law library. and

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

unions-Law Day

sreat Success

of President and Mrs. Cole, a report on the Univer-
sity from the various deans, and a luncheon in Evans
Dining Hall where President Cole spoke on current
University developments.

John Bell Towhill, ’29, of Augusta, Ga., was elected
president of the Law School Association at its annual
meeting on Saturday afternoon.

Saturday evening, the anniversary classes joined
for class banquets. Former Law School Dean Clayton
Williams presided at the 1912 banquet, Bleakley
James was in charge of the 1922 affair, Clark Winter
directed the 1937 banquet, while the 1952 reunion
class was so large that two banquets were held, pre-
sided over by Roland ‘Thompson and James Turk. All
classes joined for a lively jamboree session following
the banquets.

ee.

 

sary reunion. Seated, l-r, are RoBERT M. KNoTT, CoL. PAUL A. ROCKWELL.
cRT, JAMES SOMERVILLE, GEORGE H. McKee, and J. SAMUEL SHERERTZ; stand-
7US OWEN, JR., THomas M. Griascow, Dr. Gorpon L. Groover, C. PAUL
cNeriL, BisHop Litoyp R. CraicHitL, Dr. R. W. Dickey, FRANCIS J. HEAZEL,
A. G. LIvELy.

SUMMER 1962

 

 

Dr. Ropert W. Dickey, left, professor of physics, emeritus, greets 1912
classmate DR. RoBERT C. Woon.

 

PRESIDENT COLE accepts a check for $3,146.00 from alumnus EDWIN MARKs,
who presented the gift on behalf of the Class of 1937 as a Class Memorial.
The gift, made up of class contributions to the Alumni Fund, later swelled
to $3,856.00 from subsequent contributions. The practice of designating
a 25th Anniversary Class Memorial began in 1955 with the Class of 1930,
and has been continuous except for the Development Program years.

25

 

Attending the goth anniversary banquet of the Class of 1922 in Evans Hall were, l-r, W. J. L. Patron, Mrs. PATTON, JEANNIE MARTIN,
WILLIAM E. NEBLETT, Mrs. NEBLETT, WILL H. BARRETT, Mrs BARRETT, MR., JAMEs, BLEAKLEY JAMES, Mrs. Kemp, and VERNON KEMP.

Upper left, CLARK WINTER and
KELLY REED. 37. Upper right, for-
mer 1952 Phi Psi’s DAVE HEDGE and
Dr. EcHots HANSBARGER. Right
WILLIAM FE. NEBLETT, ’22-L, and
Joun A. LANCASTER, 712-L. Lower
right, PRror. FELIX WELSH, center,
joins BEN CARTER, left and HENRY
JonEs. Bottom, Jor ARNOLD, 737,
and Mrs. Arnon, at left, with
Pror. CHARLES R. MCDOWELL and
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES DAVIDSON,
32. Lower left, ‘THOMAS GLASGow,
Jim SOMERVILLE, and ALAN Mc-
DowELL, class of ror2. Left, Dr.
GORDON L. Groover, left, and FRAN-
cls J. HEAZEL, *12, with PRESLDENT
COLE.

 

26 | THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

PRESIDENT COLE joined members of the Alumni Board of Trustees for their June 7 meeting.

The Association Holds Its Annual Meeting

EETINGS OF Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., and the as-
sociation’s Board of ‘Trustees were
held at the University on June 7.
The general meeting was con-
ducted in Lee Chapel where a small
but interested body of alumni
heard reports from the association’s
officers on the progress and devel-
opments of the past year. The re-
ports of President Bernard Levin,
42, Executive Secretary William

JAMEs H. CLark, °31

SUMMER 1962

Washburn, ’40, and the financial
statement of Treasurer John D.
Battle, Jr, ‘$4. are. carmed else-
where in this issue.

Major items on the agenda in-
cluded the election of three new
members to the Alumni Board and
a new alumni representative on the
University Committee on Intercol-
legiate Athletics.

New board members elected were
James Hl. Clark, ‘91, ot Dallas,

SHERWOOD W. WISE, ’32

Tex.; E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr., ‘33;
of Camden, N.J.; and Sherwood W.
Wise, °32, of Jackson, Miss. ‘They
replace retiring President Levin of
Norfolk, Clark B. Winter, ’37, of
Garden City, N.Y., and Paul M.
Shuford, 43, of Richmond. Mem-
bership of the Board is now
twelve, in accordance with the re-
cently approved terms in the new
charter.

Gilbert Bocetti, 52, of Roanoke

 

E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., °33

27

was elected to the athletic commit-
tee, replacing Lea Booth, ‘40, of
Lynchburg.

Following the general meeting,
the Alumni Board of ‘Trustees met
in the Moffatt Seminar Room in
Payne Hall. In addition to Presi-
dent Levin and Treasurer Battle,
trustees attending were Vice-Presi-
dent Rodney M. Cook, ’46; E. Al-
ton Sartor, Jr., ’38; James Bland
Martin, ’31; E. Marshall Nuckols,
Jv., °33; T. B. Bryant, Jr., ’28; C.
William Pacy, ’50; and William B.
Wisdom, ’21. Secretary Washburn
and University President Fred C.
Cole also attended the meeting.

President Cole reviewed various
aspects of University progress and
cited an electronic language labora-
tory as one of its most pressing
needs. The board subsequently
passed a resolution requesting the
secretary to provide additional in-

formation on the matter for consid-
eration at the Board’s next meet-
ing.

Another motion directed the sec-
retary to proceed with necessary
legal requirements connected with
the publication of the Articles of
Incorporation and By-Laws, and to
proceed with the printing of ap-
proximately 500 copies in booklet
form.

‘Trustee Pacy expressed concern
for the preservation of the tradi-
tions and institutional esprit de
corps by the current generation of
students. The following resolution
“was approved:

“Resolved: Whereas alumni in-
dividually and collectively have ex-
pressed to this Alumni Board their
common concern that there is in-
creasing evidence of a disregard on
the part of the present students at

Washington and Lee of the tried
and revered customs and traditions
of the University and sharp decline
of their general esprit de corps, be it
resolved that the Alumni Board of
‘Trustees, as representative of the
entire Alumni Association, recom-
mend that all agencies of the stu-
dent government and University,
having direct or indirect influence
on such matters, take all appropri-
ate measures and actions within
their jurisdiction to assure a more
complete and dedicated adherence
to those principles.”’

Officers for 1962-63 elected by the
Board were President Cook, Vice-
President Battle, and ‘Treasurer
Sartor. The Board expressed its ap-
preciation to President Levin for
his excellent leadership, and heard
pledges of continued faithful ser-
vice from the new president and
other officers.

 

Homecoming and

OMECOMING AND Opening

Dance Weekend will be com-
bined again this year, following a
successful pattern established last
year which drew the largest Home-
coming return of alumni in many

years.

The date is October 20, the foot-
ball game is with Johns Hopkins,
and the rest of the program is jam-
packed with the kind of activities
that make a return to Lexington
and the campus an autumn high-
light.

It’s a good time of year to visit
the Shenandoah Valley. The weath-
er is usually ideal in mid-October,
and the fall colors on the campus
trees are brilliant then.

The Wilson Field contest with
Johns Hopkins will have unusual
significance for the Generals, for
it was Hopkins that came to Lex-

28

Dance Weekend Combined Again

ington two years ago, battled Wash-
ington and Lee to an 8-8 tie, and
put a mild blemish on an other-
wise perfect season. The Generals
got even somewhat last year in
Baltimore, but they still have a
score to settle before the homefolks.
The game will be the mid-season
mark for Coach Lee McLaughlin’s
squad, so the performance should
be tops.

As for the rest of the program,
there will be plenty to do. Early ar-
rivals on Friday, October 19, can
see the annual decoration of fra-
ternity houses, take part in the pep
rally at the gym and watch the tra-
ditional freshman pajama _ parade,
see the Homecoming Queen
crowned, and then attend the Op-
ening Dance.

Saturday, there’ll be time to visit
with friends and former professors,
take a guided tour of the new sci-

ence facilities, and join with facul-
ty and alumni for luncheon in Ev-
ans Dining Hall. After the game,
there'll be a get-to-gether for all
alumni, and later that evening
alumni will be welcome at the Op-
ening Concert in Doremus. Dress
for alumni at all events is informal.

Alumni headquarters will be in
the Student Union, and all are
urged to register there upon arriv-
al.

A word of advice:

If you plan to stay overnight in
Lexington, make your plans and
reservations early! By an unavoid-
able coincidence, V.M.I. will be
holding its Parents’ Weekend ac-
tivities, and there will be a football
game at the Keydets’ new stadium.

It all means that Lexington will
be a busy and festive place on Oc-
tober 20. So, make plans now to
join in the good times.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Report of the Association President

T IS CUSTOMARY at this time of
I year for the president to make a
brief summary report to tie to-
gether the many and varied facets
of your Alumni Association. Quite
naturally there is much in_ this
work which is routine and there are
detailed and excellent reports from
the executive secretary and the
treasurer elsewhere in this issue,
and thus my remarks will indeed
be: very. brief.

First of all, let me say that your
Board of ‘Trustees is a dedicated
group of men. They have given
tirelessly of their time and _ tal-
ents. You will recall at our annual
meeting last year the Association
approved certain revisions in the
charter which were found necessary
and desirable. One of the main pro-
visions was for the enlargement of
the number on the Alumni Board
from seven to twelve. Certain legal
matters involving the State Corpo-
ration Commission developed dur-
ing the year and have been handled
effectively by your Board. There
remains one step more, which will
be dealt with later. This is the
final phase in a very important and
progressive stride by your Associa-
tion.

Alumni of Washington and Lee
serve their alma mater, on an in-
dividual basis, in many different
ways. Collectively, through your in-
terest in the area chapters and in
this Association as a whole, you
provide a strong arm of support.

SUMMER 1962

By BERNARD LEVIN, °42
President for 1961-62

Yet, I am convinced, as has been
pointed out before, that the most
urgent task for us individually and
collectively is to reach a more ful-
ly developed system of annual sup-
port to the University.

I think all of us realize that
Washington and Lee is the kind
of university that should be accom-
plshing much more in terms of

ganization of our Alumni Fund this
year has done a most outstanding
job in the reactivation of our an-
nual giving plan. They have
worked hard and have gotten our
program “back on the track.” I say
it is an individual responsibility for
each of us and a collective responsi-
bility as an association to continue
to raise our sights and to find some

 

PRESIDENT LEVIN speaks from Lee Chapel rostrum.

alumni participation and financial
support than we presently manage.
TV’ not burden you with compart-
sons of what other colleges of our
class do in this regard. Suffice it to
say that any charity fund drive in
Norfolk on any weekend can and
does do as well as we do in a whole
year’s campaign. This is no criti-
cism of any persons or group who
are managing our Alumni Fund.
The class and regional agent or-

way of meeting this challenge in
the years ahead.

‘This is what your Board of Trus-
tees is earnestly seeking; this is the
direction we all must take. Let me
just conclude by saying that it is
truly a privilege to serve as presi-
dent of the Alumni Association.
It has been a great honor to me,
and I know I join all of you in ex-
tending best wishes for a successful
operation next year.

40

The Executive Secretary's Report

The Association Is Strong,

Its Activities Are Growing

ROM AN OVERALL standpoint, I
FE can happily report a smooth
and rosy picture for alumni opera-
tions again this year. The one
rough spot, perhaps, is the status
of the Alumni Fund and naturally
I would like to get over this spot
first. I wish I could tell you we have
reached our goals, but I can't. I
think members will be interested in
some of the facts.

The Alumni Fund Council, a
body of seven men who direct the
annual Alumni Fund, met several
times this year. At the outset and in
their two meetings last summer, the
Fund Council, with authority from
the Board of ‘Trustees, made plans
to reactivate the Alumni Fund on a
full scale, following merger with
the Development Program for the
past three years.

Careful plans and procedures as
well as a time table were estab-
lished, much along the lines of our
past successful operations. Class
and regional agents were lined up
and we were pleased with the re-
sponse of those who agreed to serve.
We were able to get 93 class ag-
ents—a full complement—and 87
regional agents, only five short of
the largest number recorded. I
should like to express publicly
my thanks and pay tribute to these

30

By WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40
Executive Secretary

men who have served, and still are
serving, so ably.

At the outset we recognized that
there were some 1,800 alumni who
were involved in the University
Development Program, those who
had either just pledged or paid or
who were still under payments to
that program. In cooperation with
the Development Office, the Alum-
ni Office went over each of these
1,800 names and decided there were
some 250 who, for one reason or
another, should definitely not be
solicited further. It was decided
that the balance could be solicited
because their payments to the De-
velopment Program were supposed
to be completed before the close
of the year or for other reasons.
Thus in total the record shows the
first general mail solicitation for
the 1961-62 fund went to 10,501
members.

As of June ist, we had received a
response from 2,209 alumni for a
total of $76,101.00. This is roughly
22 per cent of those solicited. ‘The
individual response is most gratify-
ing and the dollar volume is good.
What a terrific record we would
have if a larger participation were
received! I will not bore you with
a thesis on this point, but I would

like to emphasize again that it is
increasingly important, from the
public’s point of view and in the
eyes of other friends of colleges,
that a high percentage of participa-
tion of alumni in support of our
university be shown.

Now for the sunnier side. ‘Those
of you who attended the annual
meeting witnessed the evidence of
success in the Development Pro-
gram. Our new buildings are a
great addition to the college and
mark a step in progress in which
we can all take just pride.

Organizationally, we are strong.
‘Though we have not chartered any
new chapters this year, the pro-
grams and activities in our 40 ac-
tive chapters demonstrate a new
strength and interest. All chapters
have met at least once and many of
them several times this year. It has
been my pleasure to visit 23 differ-
ent chapters myself this year, and,
in all, we had representatives of
the college at 30 different chapters,
not counting the ones Dean Gil-
liam and Dean Farrar met in con-
nection with admissions. Of par-
ticular note is the increase of ac-
tivities among the chapters in
terms of assisting with recruitment
of new students and programs de-
signed to indoctrinate the new

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

freshmen with alumni work. This
will have long range good effects.
All of the visitations by me, by
President Cole, and by others on
the University administration and
faculty reflect the interests of ac-
tive and energetic chapters.

The Alumni Magazine continues
to be our widest channel of com-
munication between the alumni
and the University. Quarterly this
magazine is sent to a mailing list of
approximately 10,900, including
some 160 overseas, all with the
hope of keeping alumni informed
of the news and affairs of the Uni-
versity, as well as the news and ac-
tivities of your classmates and col-
lege friends. I might add that this
magazine goes to you and to all
alumni free of charge.

Alumni will be interested, I
think, in the records which are kept
by the Alumni Office. We maintain
records and jacket files on some
12,500 alumni. It is true that we do
not have mailing addresses for all
of these, but as far as we know, they
are still living.

‘The newest wrinkle in this area
is, of course, our data processing
equipment and the occupational
file. We have been busy this year
transcribing our master cards and

 

some of our records onto IBM cards
which will enable swift and accu-
rate compilation of data of all
types.

Furthermore, I think we can take
pride in the response to the occu-
pational questionnaire. From a to-
tal mailing of 10,900, we have re-
ceived returns, as of June ist, of
6,700. This has been accomplished
with two mailings and one follow-
up card. Of course, there have been
numerous references to this in the
magazine. We did not expect to get
a 100 per cent return, and I am
confident that with the returns al-
ready received, we can now produce
very interesting and accurate statis-
tical data on the alumni of Wash-
ington and Lee University. We
hope to begin our work in this area
during the coming summer. In the
meantime, I urge any of you who
have not completed the blue ques-
tionnaire form to do so. We will
be glad to send you the form upon
request. I might add here that the
information received on_ these
questionnaires is absolutely fas-
cinating and will be, I am sure, of
immeasurable value to this Asso-
ciation.

There are a number of other
facets in alumni work. I will not

No class had more fun than the Law Class of 1952 at its anniversary banquet at
Mayflower Motor Inn.

SUMMER 1962

take time to elaborate on them
here, but they do deserve men-
tion. In our student relations area,
we continue to participate in Fresh-
man Camp in order to orient them
to the work of the Alumni Associa-
tion and to award a prize to the
boy who best upholds the tradition
of knowing the most names of his
classmates. At the Camp, students
are encouraged to participate in all
alumni activities, and through our
office a closer cooperation is being
maintained with fraternities.
Homecoming and Anniversary
Class Reunions are becoming in-
creasingly popular. In May we had
the largest Anniversary Class Re-
union in recent history. Each year
your Association entertains and
welcomes the senior class into the
ranks of the alumni with a banquet
at Natural Bridge. This, I believe,
makes a lasting impression.

All of these activities, and many
more which I will not mention
here, are of tremendous value to
the Association and are growing
more important each year.

In closing, let me say that I have
enjoyed this past year of progress.
Referring to the Alumni Fund, I
can only pledge an even more dedi-
cated effort next year, and we shall
look forward to full support. It is
always difficult and dangerous at
this point to try to extend thanks
to all who have helped. I am aware
of the possibility of overlooking
someone. Nevertheless, let me first
congratulate you upon your Asso-
ciation officers and committeemen
who have given so unselfishly of
their time and efforts. To the Uni-
versity administration and faculty,
to the Development Office, to all
chapter officers, to class and region-
al agents and their many workers—
in fact, just about every alumnus—
I truly extend my deep apprecia-
tion. And to my office staff who
put up with me, I will merely add
my simple but profound thanks,
which I am sure they will under-
stand.

41

Alumni Fund Is Short
Of Goals, But Still
Merits Success Label

Organization of Class Agents,

Regional Agents Is Exceptional

And Assures Future Growth

Of Vital Support by Alumni

HE FINAL REPORT of the 1961-62

Alumni Fund Campaign, which
ended June go, disclosed that 2,607
alumni contributed a total of $84,-
298,84, thus providing the Univer-
sity vital financial sustenance in an
amount equivalent to the income
from an endowment of over $2,-
000,000.

Sums and totals are important in
the annual Alumni Fund. They are
important to the alumni, for they
reflect the substantial measure of
interest and concern which they
have for the future of their Uni-
versity. ‘hey are important to the
University, in tangible ways which
can be translated into progress and
improvement in the institution’s
educational program, and in intan-
gible ways which hearten and en-
courage those whose commitment
to Washington and Lee is total, the
professors and others who work for
its advancement. And the sums and
totals are important simply as mea-
suring devices.

As yardsticks, the 1961-62 figures
indicate that the Fund fell short

32

of announced goals, both in num-
ber of contributors and in total
amount given. Yet, the 1961-62
campaign can be looked upon with
much pride, and its results can be
interpreted as successful in their
own achievements and indicative
of greater success in the future.
‘The Fund just completed was of
singular importance. It marked a
year of getting started again on a
full scale, a year of reactivation or
rebirth of the pattern of annual
giving which had been interrupted
by the necessary demands of the
University Development Program.
It meant getting organized again
along the lines that had proven so
successful in 1956, 1957, and 1958.
It meant the enlisting of the essen-
tial help of hundreds of alumni
who were willing to work in behalf
of the Fund and their University.
This reorganization of the Fund
was more than successful, 1t was ex-
ceptional. Nearly a hundred class
agents (see chart), eighty-seven re-
gional agents, and hundreds of oth-
er committeemen joined in the

campaign. ‘They made their person-
al financial contributions, but
moreover, they made contributions
of time and effort that cannot be
valued in dollars and cents. And
they did this, often, at considerable
sacrifice. ‘heir response to the Uni-
versity’s call for assistance was in-
deed gratifying.

It should be remembered that
not all alumni on record were so-
licited for the 1961-62 Fund. Many
alumni are fulfilling pledges to the
University Development Cam-
paign, and among these are some
of the most loyal and substantial
supporters of the University. For
this reason, a complete listing of
names of Alumni Fund donors was
withheld from this report this year.
While the Alumni Association and
University are eager to acknowl-
edge the gifts of so many loyal
friends, it was felt that such a list-
ing this year might do injustice to
a large number of alumni whose
commitments to the development
campaign precluded their support
of the renewed annual fund.

For those who supported the
1961-62 Alumni Fund, there is the
satisfaction of knowing that their
contributions have gone to work
for a better Washington and Lee
University. Their gifts help sup-
port the Alumni Association itself,
enabling the association to carry
out the many programs of activities
that can be of benefit to every
alumnus. And most important of
all, their dollars are working dol-
lars for the University. They help
pay the salaries of the good pro-
fessors upon whose competency
much of Washington and Lee’s ex-
cellence depends. And they help
buy the books for the libraries, so
important to the scholarship of stu-
dents and faculty alike. And they
do many other important things.

For every alumnus, including the
three of every four who receive
this magazine who didn’t give in
a worthwhile venture will be open
1961-62, the opportunity to join in

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

soon again. The Alumni Fund
Council has raised its sights for a
$110,000 campaign for 1962-63. The
goal is a realistic one, for in 1957-
58 Washington and Lee alumni ex-
ceeded that total in support of the
annual fund. As for a contributor
goal, the Council simply decided

“Let's get everyone to give some-
thing.” The Council hopes that
many regular contributors will
raise their sights, increase the lev-
el of their giving. But most of all,
the Council, hopes to enlist the
help of every alumnus next year.
When one considers how much

the University values the efforts
and contributions of approximately
one-fourth of its former students,
it is an exciting challenge to think
of what total participation would
mean.

Plan now to give this fall when
the opportunity comes!

 

Class Agent

1887-1911—Alumni_ Offfice........
1912-A—Gordon L. Groover......
1912-L—Francis J. Heazel........
1913-A—Richard A. Smith.......
igig-L-—T.-R. Bandy............
1914-A—Paul J. B. Murphy......
1914-L—John L. Hughes........
1915-A—W: W., Cash, |r.........
1915-L—Wilbur C. Hall.........

1917-A—Raymond L. Cundiff....
1917-L—Robert R. Kane........
1918 —Allein Beall............
igig —W. F.
1920-A—Randolph M. Cabell.....
1920-L—John W. Drye, Jr........
1921-A—William J. Rushton......
1921-L—Fred C. Parks..........
1922-A—L. Waters Milbourne...
1922-L—R. Bleakley James......
1923-A—Herbert L. Elias........
1923-L—Emmett W. Poindexter. .
1924-A—Albert M. Pickus.......
1924-L—J. Hampton Price.......
1925-A—John T. McVay........
1925-L—Perry A. Norman........
1926-A—Rufus A. Fulton........
1926-L—E. G. Hundley..........
1927-A—Allen Harris, Jr.........
1927-L—Alumni_ Office..........
1928-A—F. W. Sherrill..........
1928-L—T. B. Bryant, Jr........
1929-A—Hayward F. Day........
1929-L—Samuel C. Strite........
1930-A—John P. Lynch.........
1930-L—N. Dawson Hall........
1931-A—James L. Rimler........
1931-L—Manuel M. Weinberg....
1932-A—Charles E. Long, Jr......
1932-L—Charles A. Wood, Jr.....
1933-A—Edward H. Bacon......
1933-L—Bernard B. Davis........
1934-A—Claude Harrison, Jr.....
1934-L—Thomas D. Anderson...
1935-A—Charles C. Smith........
1935-L—Thomas E. Sparks......
1936-A—W. B. Hoofstitler.......
1936-L—John H. Thomas.......

 

Here’s How The Classes Compared In 1961-62

 

Pct. of Pct. of
No. Class Amount Class Agent No. Class Amount
127 29 $4 6,695.96 1937-A—William D. Fichback...... 54 24 > 2,941.40
1G | 27 562.50 1937-L—Edwin M. Marks........ 19 «61 915.00
14 Re 155.00 1938-A—Gerald M. Lively....... BO”: BF 1,513.60
22 44 1,055.00 1938-L—C. William Karraker, Jr. 7 26 159.00
10-38 315.00 1939-A—Thomas W. Moses...... G2) a9 2,443.11
a 36 726.00 1939-L—John D. Goodin........ [noo 4s 298.89
9 34 360.00 1940-A—Brent H. Farber, Jr..... 60 30 1,957-17
26 = 48 970.00 1940-L—O. B. McEwan.......... 8: e8 354-00
Fo BO 1,305.00 19641-A—Emil C. Rassman....... 57 es 1,632.00
14 28 790.00 1941-L—Charles F. Heiner....... LO 87 420.00
17s 358 425.00 1942-A—Charles P. Didier....... 7 1,654.00
20 34 855.00 1942-L—Elhot W. Butts......... 10, 99 290.00
2... 52 192.50 1043. eG. oc. Myers, ee 64 26 1,360.00
B4 °° 26 1,018.26 1944 --James P. Gilman........ 44°. 22 1,200.00
26° 28 818.90 1945 —Edward B. Addison..... Bo 716 2,155.00
BA 28 515.00 1946 —Robert W. H. Mish, Jr... 30 19 762.00
8. 42 510.00 1947. —John A. McWhorter, Jr. 18 23 380.00
ae 36 1,336.50 1948-A—Lewis H. McKenzie...... 28°) 31 1,040.00
12.588 260.00 1948-L—Carter R. Allen........ 28 396 465.00
14 16 635.00 1949-A—Mark W. Saurs......... BS 5 24 1,490.00
ae 85.00 1949-L—Jack B. Porterfield, Jr... 20 34 387.50
25° 1G 785.00 1950-A—Bruce S. Parkinson...... 70-25 2,683.78
6 28 100.00 1950-L—Rufus B. Hailey........ 12, Be 310.00
31 19 1,736.00 1951-A—W. Upton Beall........ Br. 93 1,637.00
O.. 22 132.00 1951-L—E. McGruder Faris, Jr... 17 26 405.00
Al ~ 25 2,240.00 1952-A—Roland E. Thompson.... 53 21 1,018.00
4 5 23 100.00 ig52-L—fames C. Turk......... 17 40 258.00
Au 88 1,131.00 1953-A—Leonard B. Ransom, Jr. 53. 21 1,044.61
g 60 150.00 1953-L—Robert Lee Banse...... 7 B8 110.00
go 48 1,298.00 1954-A—Norman L. Dobyns...... BQO. 24 872.50
Coy 445-00 i954-L—J. P. Kilgore........... 1h 68 300.00
Al BS 3,622.50 1955-A—J. Hardin Marion, III... 35 15 991.00
A a8 310.00 1055-L-John F. Kay, Jr......... Be BF 80.00
43 20 1,430.00 1956-A—Geoffrey T. Armbrister.. 29 10 470.00
Be Ugs 130.00 1956-L—Beverly G. Stephenson... 1 8 15.00
4a 22 1,844.42 1957-A—Johnn J. Fox, Jr. 2.4. 66 23 972.00
11 50 875.00 1957-L—Douglas K. Frith....... 7 5 161.00
42 18 2,796.28 1958-A—Thomas B. Branch, III.. 74 = 25 948.42
SF 370.00 1958-L—Robert G. McCullough.. 3. 17 52.50
46° 31 1,400.00 1959-A—C. DuBose Ausley...... 5519 692.00
B 234 610.00 1959-L—Owen A. Neff.......... oo 30.00
47° 23 1,625.00 1960-A—A. Prescott Rowe....... Bie a7 562.00
BAe 235.00 1960-L—Isaac N. Smith, Jr....... 2 8 20.00
29 13 831.54 1961-A—Robert J. Funkhouser, Jr. 52 17 567.00
2 4) 210.00 1961-L—Paul H. Coffey, Jr....... a. 8G 65.00
44 20 945.00 1962, 1963, 1964—Alumni Office... 15 123.00
Bees 160.00 PLS ie re eS Pas 5 270.00
e418 886.00 : one
2 18 40.00 DOGS oe oe ae es Bee 2607 $84,298.84

 

 

SUMMER 1962

33

Special Endowment Funds Honor
Memory of Two Alumni

George Edward Harris Bequest

Will Encourage Creative Writing; Widow
Of Herbert S. Larrick Establishes Fund
To Support Scholarships In Law School

HE DEVOTION of two alumni to
T their University is mirrored in
the recent establishment of two spe-
cial endowments at Washington
and Lee which will benefit future
students.

Securities valued at $56,361.74
were bequeathed to the University
by the late George Edward Harris,
23, who died December 20, 1960,
at his home in Greenville, N.C.
Under the terms specified in Mr.
Harris’s will, income from the fund
is to be used “to encourage creative
writing by the students, perhaps
through an annual prize for the
best work by an undegraduate.”

An author himself, Mr. Harris
also provided for Washington and
Lee to receive any future royalties
on his published works.

Mr. Harris was a native of
Greenville, where he is survived by
his mother, Mrs. Belle H. Harris,
and his sister, Mrs. Nina Harris
Redditt. He received his B.A. de-
gree in 1923, and went on to gradu-
ate study at Harvard, where he
earned the M.A. in 1924, and at
Yale. While studying at Harvard he
taught in Brown University, and
he also was a teacher at Yale while
studying there.

Mr. Harris was active in the
early developments of programming
for radio. He wrote, acted, and
directed radio programs, and he
wrote advertising for radio presen-

34

tation. For a while he was a “read-
er’ for motion picture companies,
but later turned his attention to
writing many articles, short stories,
novels, and plays.

President Fred C. Cole wrote to
Mrs. Harris these words of appre-
clation:

“I can think of no more appro-
priate way by which the spirit of
a wonderful alumnus like your son
could be kept alive than in this
way of helping other boys to real-
ize their noble dreams. It is my
hope that those who profit from
his generosity will develop their
talents as did your son.”

An equally significant endow-
ment of $25,000 has been estab-
lished in honor of the memory of
the late Herbert S. Larrick, ’97,
prominent Winchester attorney
and banker for sixty years.

Given by his widow, Mrs. Nancy
N. Larrick of Winchester, the fund
provides that its income will be
used to finance scholarships for stu-
dents in the University’s School
of Law.

Mrs. Larrick’s gift has been des-
ignated as the Herbert S. Larrick
Law School Scholarship Fund,
President Cole said. The late Mr.
Larrick received his LL.B. degree
from Washington and Lee in 1897
and began his Winchester practice
the same year. He died March 16,
1960.

In establishing the fund, Mrs.
Larrick noted that her husband
was keenly interested in public
education and had_ encouraged
many young people to go on to
college and graduate school.

“We have been expanding our
aid funds for the School of Law,
and Mrs. Larrick’s generous gift is
most timely,’ President Cole said.
“A fund of this type will be of im-
measurable significance to many
worthy young men.” |

A native of Middletown, Va.,
Mr. Larrick had a distinguished
career as attorney, banker, and civ-
ic leader in Winchester and Fred-
erick County. He was Common-
wealth’s Attorney for Frederick
County for eight years. He helped
organize the Middletown State
Bank, the Commercial and Savings
Bank of Winchester, the Western
Frederick Bank at Gore, and the
Capon Valley Bank at Wardens-
ville. He served as president of the
Commercial and Savings Bank
from the time of its founding in
1916 until 1959 when he became
chairman of the board.

Mr. Larrick attended the Mid-
dletown Public School and Shenan-
doah Valley Academy in Winches-
ter. Before entering Washington
and Lee’s Law School in 1895, he
attended the College of William
and Mary and was principal of the
Middletown School.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Alumni Sons Among the 1962 Graduates

 

 

Alumni fathers attending the 1962 graduation included, seated, l-r, JOHN WESLEY VARDAMAN, ’36; RoBERT C. Woon, JrR., 21; ALEXANDER
W. Mossy, Jr., 24; Irvinc M. LYNN, ’19; HuGH WILLIAM Dick, ’27; HAYWARD FRANCIs Day, ‘29; CECIL WILLIAM HICKAM, ’25; SIMON M.
PAINTER, '33; H. B. Fozzarp, ’29; Ernest B. MILLER, ’43; WORTHINGTON Brown, ’29; and HowARD EUGENE MELTON, ’36. Graduate sons of

alumni included, standing, l-r, ARNOLD MASINTER, JEROME DATTEL,

Puitip D. SHARP, JR., JOHN W. VARDAMAN, JR., ROBERT C. Woop,

RicHArD T. Mossy, IrRviNG M. LyNN, JR., WILLIAM BARTON Dick, HAywarp F. Day, JR., ALLAN B. PAINTER, SIMON M. PAINTER, JR.,
GrorGcE B. Fozzarp, RussELL BrRyAN MILLER, WORTHINGTON BROWN, JR., HOWARD EUGENE MELTON, JR., and KeRFORD A. MARCHANT, JR.

 

W. and L. Lawyers

ASHINGTON AND LEE lawyers
W voor a prominent role in the
recent meeting of the Virginia State
Bar Association at Hot Springs,
Virginia.

At this meeting Lewis F. Powell,
Jr., ’29, of Richmond was endorsed
by the State Bar for president-elect
of the American Bar Association in
1963. Martin P. Burks, ’32, of Roa-
noke was re-elected as the Bar dele-
gate to the Virginia House of Dele-
gates. In its 72nd annual meeting,
the Association also installed as its
new president, Waldo M. Miles, °38,
of Bristol. Among the vice-pres-
idents was Samuel A. Martin, ’38, of
Pearisburg.

In the Junior Bar Conference,
the Association members under 36
years of age, Walter J. McGraw, '55,
of Richmond was elected vice-
chairman and J. Frank Shepherd,
Jr., 57, of Lynchburg was named to
the executive committee.

SUMMER 1962

CLass Notes

1904

Attributing his 81 years and splendid
health to the mud and dust received on
the W&L Gridiron, GrorcE E. Haw is
still in the practice of law in Richmond.
Affectionately known as “G. Haw,” he
drives his car, plays golf, and is an avid
duck hunter. Working a full day, he is
active both in his office and in court.

1909

Tue Rev. R. ALLEN Brown of Norfolk is
the first vice-president of the Virginia
Society of the Sons of the American Rev-
olution. Also in his organization are
KENNETH C. PATry, ’20, who is secretary
and registrar, and RENO S. Harp, III,’54,
who is on the board of managers. The so-

ciety makes an annual award to a student
at Washington and Lee in recognition of
outstanding leadership, scholastic achieve-
ment, and proficiency in military training.
The award this year went to Allyn D.
Kantor of Memphis, Tennessee.

L. T. WILson is professor of physics at
Jacksonville University, Jacksonville, Flor-
ida.

1910

JosEpH R. BLACKBURN writes he is still
‘punching the clock’ with the State Road
Commission in Charleston, West Virginia,
as senior engineer.

1911

The signature of JupDGE WiLiiaAM F.

oO

 

BLANTON has appeared on the driving,
hunting, and fishing licenses of residents
of Miami, Florida, since 1918. Judge Blan-
ton is known as the dean of Florida
judges and in May he began his 45th
year on the bench in the Dade County
Courthouse. He was elected a municipal
judge in 1914 and has run for county
judge every four years since 1918 and been
opposed only once. In appreciation of his
years of service, his employees gave him
a dinner party and a scroll saluting his
“kindness and concern” for all. When
Judge Blanton completed law school at
Washington and Lee, he was the youngest
member of the class, and the Virginia
Supreme Court had to order a special
commission to admit him to the bar
since he was under twenty-one.

Commemorating Lee’s birthday, the fol-
lowing alumni met for luncheon in
Brownsville, ‘Tennessee, on January 19,
1962: JUDGE JOHN T. Gray, ‘11, Mr.
ALBERT CARLTON, 714, MR. HERBERT STERN-
BERGER, ‘14, Mr. L. W. Morcan, ‘a4, Mr;
ALEXANDER H. Gray, 17, and Mr. Mor-
TON FELSENTHAL, ’21. These alumni hope
to make the affair an annual event, and
they will perhaps be joined next year by
other interested alumni in West Ten-
nessee.

1912

Interesting news by letter from WILLIAM
McELWEE MILLER added to the history
prepared for the 50th Reunion of the
Class of 1912. In 1919 Mr. Miller sailed for
Meshad, Persia, as a missionary under the
Presbyterian Church. He and his family
were transferred to ‘Teheran thirteen
years later, and there the Millers have
worked for thirty years to spread Chris-
tianity among the Moslem people. Al-
though the church in Moslem lands is
small, Mr. Miller considers his oppor-
tunities for service a privilege, and at

the end of this year he will retire at the

age of seventy, having completed his work
with gratifying results.

1915

SUMMERFIELD McCarTENEY is the author
of a meditation accepted for publication
by The Upper Room, a world-wide de-
votional guide. This guide, with a circu-
lation of over three million copies, is
printed in forty editions and thirty-four
languages.

1916

Three separate tours of duty have taken
Dr. Witey D. Forsus to the Far East to
participate in the furthering of medical
education there. Some years ago he took
part in a survey of medical facilities in
indonesia for the China Medical Board
and the Rockefeller Foundation. He then
spent six months in Taiwan and _ three
months in Japan in 1953 and 1956 re-
spectively, dealing with the progress of
medical schools there.On this third tour

36

Dr. Forbus has been in Indonesia since
January, 1961, as the director of an af-
filiation between the University of Cal-
ifornia Medical School and the Airlangga
University Medical School in Surabaja,
Indonesia. The affiliation concerns itself
with the rehabilitation and further de-
velopment of the Indonesian medical
schools and is a part of the overall U.S.
foreign aid activities. In spite of the great
difficulties associated with the economic
and political situation in Indonesia, Dr.

Forbus reports that a very considerable
amount of progress has been accomplished
in the development of the medical school
at Airlangga University. Dr. Forbus will
return to his post as Professor of Pathol-
ogy at the Duke University Medical
School at the end of this year.

1920

Upon retirement, ELpon P. Kino will have
completed nearly forty-five years of career

 

 

# PRESIDENT KENNEDY has appointed
Philip D. Sprouse, ’28, a Career
Foreign Service Officer, Ambassa-
dor to Cambodia. He succeeds Wil-
liam C. Trimble who resigned. The
appointment marks a milestone for
Ambassador Sprouse in his many
years of diplomatic service.

After graduate work at Prince-
ton and a short teaching experience
at Gulf Coast Military Academy,
Sprouse entered the U.S. Foreign
Service in 1935 and was assigned to
the China area. There he served for
several years as language officer and
in other capacities at Peiping, Han-
dow, Chungking and Kunming
throughout the War. In 1949, he
was named Director of the Office of
Chinese Affairs.

During his China service, Am-
bassador Sprouse served the Sec-
retary of State, General George C.
Marshall, as chief political advisor

 

Secretary of State DEAN Rusk, left, congratulates Ambassador Puttie D. Sprouse, ’28.

during the overthrow of Chiang
Kai-shek by the Communists. Later,
he also served on the Wedemeyer
Commission investigating the polit-
ical disintegration of the China
situaton.

In 1950, Sprouse became First
Secretary at Paris and later became
Counselor of the Embassy. Upon
completion of an assignment at the
NATO Defense War College in
1953, he became Counselor of the
Embassy at Brussels, and was re-
turned to Washington in 1959 as
senior Foreign Service Inspector.
During this same year, Mr. Sprouse
was promoted to the rank of Career
Minister.

Ambassador Sprouse is one of
very few men to attain anbassador-
ial rank by promotion from Career
Service ranks. His work in Cambo-
dia may perhaps be his most chal-
lenging.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

service with the federal government, be-
ginning in 1914 with work with the De-
partment of Interior. After joining In-
ternal Revenue in 1920 as an attorney,
Mr. King progressed through the ranks
until 1952 when he was appointed Di-
rector of International ‘Tax Relations
Division of the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service, from which office he retired in
April. Mr. King has participated in
negotiations of tax treaties with other
countries for the past twenty-five years.
He took part in discussions leading to
the first tax treaty between the United
States and Sweden in 1938 and with France
in 1939. He attended meetings of the
Fiscal Committee in Switzerland in 1937
and in Mexico in 1943. He has also writ-
ten for publication a number of articles
on various aspects of taxation.

HENRY ForD TROTTER is owner of H. §.
Trotter, Inc., Ford Sales and Service of
Pine Bluff, Arkansas. Mr. Trotter visited
both Hawaii and Mexico during the past
year. For the past twenty years he has
been a trustee of \ Hendrix College~ in
Arkansas and also on the executive com-
mittee.’ His three brothers, JAUN, “18,
REGINALD, ‘21, and YATES, ’27, are all in
the mercantile business in Monticello,
Arkansas.

zi

Dr. SAMUEL L. Raines, Memphis special-
ist, has been named_ president-elect of
the American Urological Association. Dr.
Raines is past president of the South-
eastern Section of AUA and of the Mem-
phis and Shelby County Medical Society.

Beginning his 37th year with Madison
College of Harrisonburg, Virginia, How-
ARD KEMPER GIBBONS is considered the
dean of business managers in Virginia
colleges. Since joining Madison College
as business manager in 1925 Mr. Gibbons
has seen the budget expand from $30,000
annually to about $2144 million and the
campus buildings have multiplied from six
to roughly 32. Mr. Gibbons and his wife
have three sons and one daughter.

1924

The Hendon Company, JOHN F. HENDON,
President, is the subject for a feature
article in the May issue of Alabama
Market News. ‘The Company owns and
operates Car Park, which is celebrating
its 35th year of parking cars in Alabama
and which now has units in seven South-
ern states and twenty cities. As_pres-
ident, Mr. Hendon was one of the or-
ganizers of the National Parking Associa-
tion. He is on the board of directors of
several corporations, the author of pam-
phlet and magazine articles on parking
and traffic problems, and is a member
of the University Board of Trustees.

The Roanoke Times carried an article
and photograph of J. D. Basserr, Jr., in

SUMMER 1962

 

EMMETT W. McCorKLE, Jr.

an April issue. Mr. Bassett is chairman
of the board of Bassett Furniture Indus-
tries, a company that marked its 6oth
anniversary in April. Over the years Mr.
Bassett has watched his furniture indus-
try grow to greatness through progres-
sive ideas. ‘Today the Bassett line has
700 different pieces, and the plant has
grown into a complex that is the world’s
largest manufacturer of wood furniture
The present chairman of the board stress-
es community responsibility as a part of
corporate policy and dedicates his life
to the service of the people with whom
he is associated.

1925

Dr. ANDREW T. Roy, vice-president for
Public Relations of Chung Chi College in
Hong Kong, has written a book entitled
“On Asias Rim.’ It presents: a. picture
of the political and religious scene in
Korea, Okinawa, ‘Taiwan, and Hong
Kong. The book is published by Friend-
ship Press of New York City and is priced
at $2.95.

When a third county judge for Dade
County, Florida, was authorized, GEORGE
‘TT’. CLARK was appointed to that office in
1959. At the age of sixty, in 1960, Judge
Clark had his first active participation in
politics, for he had to enter the primary
at that time as a candidate for the judge-
ship. ‘The result, however, was quite sat-
isfactory for Judge Clark, and he then
began a full four-year term. The principal
work of this office is that of a probate
judge. ‘The work is made more enjoyable,
Judge Clark writes, by the fact that he
is associated with JUDGE W. FRANK BLAN-
ton; 11, LEB.

1926

Lr...Get. WieitaAm -B. WILLIAMSON. ‘re-
cently completed the one-week refresher

 

EMMETT W. MAcCorKLE, JR., has ben ap-
course at ‘The Army Command and Gen-
eral Staff College at Ft. Leavenworth.
Col. Williamson received instruction in
current doctrine and the techniques of
staff teamwork.

Joun B. FUNK as chairman-director of
the Maryland State Road Commission is
responsible for the legislation and em-
phasis needed for the completion of the
Baltimore Beltway, a project ten years in
the making and an advanced traffic fea-
ture. Mr. Funk has had a lengthy career
in legislative and engineering posts. For
a number of years he served as a state
delegate and senator and in 1947 was
Maryland’s secretary of state. This year
the Traffic Club of Baltimore selected
him as “Man of the Year in ‘Transporta-

tion” for his work in improving highways.

pointed President of Air Reduction Pa-
cific Company with headquarters in San
Francisco. Mr. MacCorkle, and his family,
went to the West Coast in 1952 upon
being made Airco Pacific vice-president.
While in San Marino, California, he has
been active in community affairs, in-
cluding being the first president of the
Friends of the San Marino Public Li-
brary and a member of the Board of
‘Trustees of the San Marino Library.

1928

After graduate work at Yale and Harvard,
A. P. BoNnDURANT went with Reynolds
Metals Company of New York in the
department of sales promotion in its early
days of product packaging. Five years later
he joined Glenmore Distilleries Company
in Louisville, Kentucky, where he _ pro-
gressed with distinction from advertising
manager to vice-president, and then to
his present position of director. “Bondy”
was a lieutenant-colonel in the Air Force
and served in several. theaters of opera-
tion during World War II. He is a for-
mer director of the Louisville Chamber of
Commerce, the Better Business Bureau,
and the Louisville Summer Opera. He
and his wife have one daughter, Mimi,
age fifteen.

JAamMEs B. NANCE writes that he is quite
busy in the National Livestock Organiza-
tion and spends a great deal of his time
traveling around the country. Jim is also
on the President’s Agricultural Advisory
Commission. He and Mrs. Nance have
three sons, two of whom are through
school and out on their own. The younger
one is at the veterinarian school at Au-
burn University.

1932

Henry W. Norrurvp and his wife made a
nice visit to Lexington in April. They
visited Dr. Gaines on his 7oth birthday,
attended Easter Sunrise service at Natural
Bridge, traveled the Blue Ridge Parkway,
and visited the Cyrus McCormick Farm.

37

 

 

1933

CHARLIE LONGACRE was recently elected
president of the Association of New Jer-
sey State College Faculties. He had served
for six years as a member of its Executive
Council. The Association is composed of
six New Jersey State Colleges and has a
combined faculty membership of 780
members.

1934

WILLIAM JONES WALLACE, JR., iS assistant
vice-president of ‘The First National Bank
and Trust Company of Oklahoma City.
Mr. Wallace’s association with this bank,
the largest one in Oklahoma, represents
over thirty years of service.

After twenty years as a civil and hydrau-
lic engineer with the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers in Tulsa, Oklahoma, RosertT L.
BUFFINGTON is now in Fort Worth, Texas.
The family includes two teen-age sons.

Fred O. FUNKHOUSER, President of the
Harrisonburg Loan and Thrift Corpora-
tion, was named by Governor Albertis S.
Harrison to the Virginia Advisory Council
on Educational Television. He represents
the Seventh Congressional District. Mr.

Funkhouser is familiar with the develop-
ment of public school classes in the
Shenandoah Valley area. He is a _ past
president and director of the Virginia
Industrial Bankers Association and direc-
tor of the national association.

Mayor CHARLES R. Iovino was re-elected
for a second term to the office of Mayor
of the City of Milford, Connecticut.
In 1959 Iovino was elected on a write-in
vote on voting machines.

1935

Joun A. WepBerR has been employed for
the past twenty-three years in the sales
department of Jamison, Inc., in Nashville,
Tennessee. He is also a member of the
board of directors of the company, which
manufactures bedding and _ upholstered
furniture. ‘The Webbers have a son who
will attend the U.S. Naval Academy this
coming year and a daughter fifteen years
old.

1936

Having been with Western Electric Com-
pany since graduation, STUART ‘IT. MILLER
is presently Works Controller at the
Kearney, New Jersey, works. He and his
wife live in Summit, New Jersey, and
have four children.

From August of 1953 through December,
1961, M. H. MAny was an attorney in the
U.S. Attorney’s Office in New Orleans. He
resigned, however, to re-enter private
practice, and this year has become a
member of the firm of Guste, Barnett &
Little in New Orleans.

1938

Joun D. STerReTT, JR., of Lexington, Vir-
ginia, has accepted the position of pres-
ident of the First National Farmers Bank
of Wytheville, Virginia. He assumed his
duties as head of the bank on the first
of July.

Dr. ALBERT A. POLLACK is assistant profes-
sor of medicine at New York University
School of Medicine. Dr. Pollack is also
serving on the American Heart Association
Rehabilitation Committee.

PauL M. MILLER left Hong Kong in Jan-
uary after serving with the American
Consulate General as commercial officer
and consul for many years. Mr. Miller,
with his family, toured southern Europe
before returning to Washington to es-
tablish their home. He is now working
in the State Department on the Southwest
Pacific desk, handling economic matters
for the Philippines, Australia, and New
Zealand.

 

B THE SKYROCKET career of ‘Thomas
W. Moses continues to make head-
lines. The president of the Indian-
apolis Water Co. has resigned effec-
tive September 1, 1962 to become
executive vice president of Invest-
ors Diversified Services (IDS) in
Minneapolis.

Moses has been a member of the
I.D.S. board since July 1961 and
is chairman of the executive com-
mittee. Investors Diversified Ser-
vice, which manages assets of more
than $4 million, is the investment
manager and national distributor
of five mutual funds and is the larg-
est organization of its kind in the
world. It is a part of the Alleghany
Corporoation, the giant holding
company, which is controlled by
the financier Murchison brothers,
John D. and Clint, of ‘Texas.

A campus leader for four years,
Moses received his A.B. degree
from Washington and Lee in 1939,
and a Yale law degree in 1942. He
served a hitch in the Navy aboard

38

 

the destroyer USS Barton, and then
practiced law in Charleston, W.
Va. and Pittsburgh, Pa.

Moving to Dallas, ‘Texas, in 1955,
where he became associated with
the Murchison brothers, he joined
the Indianapolis Water Company
in July, 1955, and became its presi-

dent in April, 1956. He is also
president of the Philadelphia Su-
burban Water Co. These two water
companies, in which the Murchison
brothers have a substantial interest,
are the largest privately owned wat-
er utilities in the United States.
Moses is also president of Water
Treatment Corporation which con-
ducts research and developments
programs in the general field of
water treatment and whose best
known division is Servisoft.

Displaying the same vitality and
enthusiasm as he did on campus,
Moses is described as a veritable
dynamo in Civic activities. He is a
director of the Indianapolis Cham-
ber of Commerce, the United Fund,
Boys Club, Indiana Symphony So-
ciety, Indianapolis Better Business
Bureau, and holds several positions
with the Indianapolis Speedway.

Married to the former Anne
Murtha in 1942, Tom and his wite
have five children, two sons and
three daughters, ranging in age
from 1 to 18.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

The King of Belgium bestowed upon
JOHN H. SHoar the Knight’s Cross of the
Order of the Crown. ‘This ceremony was
on March 29, 1962, and the honor was
given to him for services rendered in the
development of international trade rela-
tions. Mr. Shoaf is manager of the World
Trade Department of the Dallas Chamber
of Commerce.

1939

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Warren H. Ep-
WARDS, a daughter, Sabrina Louise, on
April 8, 1962. Warren is practicing law in
Orlando, Florida, and is serving as alumni
regional agent for that area.

1940

JOHN WILLIAM JOHNSTON is loan super-
visor for Equitable Life Assurance Society
of the U.S. in Nashville, Tennessee.

With Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing
Company since 1948, RicHARD M. Rap-
CLIFFE, is National Operations Manager
for one of 3 M’s large subsidiaries, Na-
tional Advertising Company. The firm
specializes in outdoor and retail merchan-
dising services.

1941

CHARLES L. Hopson has successfully prac-
ticed law in Frankfort, Kentucky, for six-
teen consecutive years. He and his wife,
Mary Alice, have a daughter, aged nine,
and a son, aged two.

CHARLES BOWLES was honored recently at
the Eastern Regional office in Charlottes-
ville of the State Farm Mutual Automo-
bile Insurance Company for completing
ten years of service with the company.
Charlie is a superintendent of claims with
State Farm in Baltimore and he and his
family live there. While at Washington
and Lee, he was a monogram winner in
wrestling.

DONALD J. GODEHN is presently Marketing
Technical Director for the American
ENKA Corporation in Asheville, North
Carolina. He and his wife have four
children, three sons and a daughter.

During Fiesta Week in San Antonio in
April Jor E. Srreer reigned as King
Antonio XL. This festive occasion in San
Antonio has historical significance in ad-
dition to being a time of celebration. Joe
is a member of the Texas and national
bar associations, vice-president of the
committee on unauthorized practice of
law and the committee to test qualifica-
tions of bar applicants, and holds mem-
bership in the American Judicature So-
ciety.

JosEpH T. Lykes, Jr., has been named
president of Lykes Brothers Steamship
Company. This action was taken by the
directors of the New Orleans shipping
concern, one of the two largest in the

SUMMER 1962

United States, at their annual meeting.
The new president has been senior vice-
president since 1957. Mr. Lykes has been
a director of International House, of the
Whitney National Bank, and of the Cham-
ber of Commerce of the New Orleans
Area.

1942

RoBeErT F. CAMPBELL, JR., is editorial page
editor of the Winston-Salem Journal and
Twin City Sentinel and is chairman of the
1961-62 North Carolina Editorial Writers
Conference. Bob also returned to the
Washington and Lee campus the latter
part of April to direct a short course in
newspaper production for the Southern
Interscholastic Press Association, which
met on the campus at that time.

FRANK La MortrTeE has been named to fill
the position of General Sales Manager—
Paperboard Products Division—of the
Gulf States Paper Corporation according
to an announcement by JACK W. WARNER,
‘41, president. In this position Frank will
be responsible for the coordination of
paperboard and carton sales, coordination
with subsidiary carton operations, and the
direction of national account executives.

THomMAS D. Murray is a life underwriter
for Peoples Life Insurance Company of
Washington, D.C. He and Mrs. Murray,
who is a school teacher, have a daughter
in training as a nurse at the Medical
College of Virginia, a daughter attending
Richmond Professional Institute, and a
ten-year old son who hopes to play foot-
ball for Washington and Lee. The Mur-
rays live at War, West Virginia.

 

EDWARD JAMES McCarty

EDWARD JAMES McCarty has been pro-
moted to vice-president of the Southern
Bank and Trust Company of Richmond,
Virginia. He was formerly associated with

Reynolds Metals Company and the Union
Life Insurance Company. Ed also served
on the examining staff of the State Cor-
poration’s Bureau of Banking before his
association with the Southern Bank in
1957 as cashier. During recent years the
local and state Chamber of Commerce,
various banking committees, the United
Givers Fund, YWCA Building Fund, the
Richmond Symphony, and many _ civic
activities have made use of his leadership.
He is currently vice-president of the
Richmond Alumni Chapter, and he will
become president for the coming year.

1943

DONALD J. CRAWFORD was recently honored
at a dinner-dance in Charlottesville, Vir-
ginia, for having completed ten years
of service with the State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Company. Don was
a member of the Washington and Lee
Swimming Team in 1939-41. After leav-
ing Lexington he received his B.S. degree
in Commerce from the University of
Virginia. He and his wife, Anita C.
Monger of MHarrisonburg, have three
children and live in Charlottesville.

J. ALLEN OvERTON, JR., has been appoint-
ed administrative vice-president of the
American Mining Congress. Allen entered
public service as a member of the West
Virginia Legislature in 1948. Later in
Washington he served in the U.S. Depart-
ment of Commerce as a special assistant
to the general counsel, and then in 1959
he was appointed to the U.S. Tariff Com-
mission by President Eisenhower. He has
served as adviser to the U.S. delegation
at the meetings of the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade in Tokyo and Ge-
neva. His present work with the Mining
Congress involves coordinating the efforts
of mineral producers and mining equip-
ment manufacturers in stimulating mining
practices. The Overtons live in Arlington,
Virginia.

Tor sixteen years JAMES W. WHEATER has
been teacher and coach at Hawthorne
(N. J.) High School. However, he has now
accepted an appointment as chairman of
the math department at Ramsey (N. J.)
High School, beginning in the fall of
1962. He has also received his third con-
secutive grant to attend a N.S.F. Mathe-
matics Institute.

1944

MARRIED: Howard GREENBLATT and
Miss Miriam Halbrecht were married on
February 1, 1962. Howard was formerly
house counsel with John Plain & Com-
pany in Chicago, but he is now with the
real estate department of Zayre Corpor-
ation in Boston.

MARRIED: LAWRENCE FREDERICK MANS-
FIELD and Frances Walker O’Neal were
married on April 4, 1962, in Atlanta,
Georgia.

39

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES P. GILMAN,
a son, Walter Allen, II, born April 6, 1962.

Tuomas B. ULAM is owner of the real
estate firm, Ulham & McLaughlin Real
Estate Agency, in Mt. Lebanon, Pennsyl-
vania. The firm is a member of the
Greater Pittsburgh Board of Realtors As-

sociation.
1945

A year ago OMER 'T. Kaytor, Jr., and R.
NoeEL SPENCE, °56, formed a_ partnership
for the general practice of law in Hagers-
town, Maryland.

Dr. Rosert M. SINSKEY has opened a new
office in Santa Monica, California, for the
practice of opthalmology. He is consult-
ant and chief of Eye Service in the USS.
Veterans Hospital in Sepulveda, Califor-
nia, and is also assistant clinical professor
in surgery at U.C.L.A.

1946

KENNETH H. WACKER is general foreman
of Facilities and Material Control of the
Florida Research & Development Center
of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Company.
He is married to the former Leah R.
MacAlister, Southern Seminary, ’48, and
the couple have a son, age eight years,
and a daughter, age two. In April, Ken
was elected to a two-year term as mayor
of Mangonia Park, Florida.

1947

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. B. BRENT BREEDEN,
Jr., a daughter, Sarah DuBose, on April
11, 1962. Brent is employed in the Public
Relations Department of E. I. duPont
Company in Wilmington, Delaware.

W. M. WItcox, JR., has recently moved
from Charlotte, North Carolina, to Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania, where he is region-
al supervisor of retail operations for the
B. F. Goodrich Company.

After graduation, HARoLp ‘T. CHITTUM,
Jr., studied one year in Texas and then
married a Florida girl and moved to
Orlando. Hal has been a geologist, a
rancher, and a land developer. ‘The Chit-
tums have one son and two daughters.

For the past nine years RoBeErT A. WARMS
has been with the Philadelphia Yellow
Trading Stamp Company. At present he
is secretary-treasurer and general man-
ager. Bob and his wife live in Melrose
Park with their son, Richard, who is
six years old, and their daughter, Pat,
who is four years old.

1948

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HENRY FORESMAN, a
son, George Williamson, on June 7, 1962.

WILSON B. ARMISTEAD is assistant Person-
nel Director for the City of Nashville,
‘Tennessee.

FreD L. Rusu has been promoted to trust
officer by the First National City Bank of

40

New York City. He and his family live in
Huntington, Long Island, New York.

Jack G. Murray expects to receive his
master’s degree in International Affairs
from the University of Pittsburgh in Au-
gust and then be assigned to Germany.
He holds the rank of Major.

Dr. Marvin Lewis Daves has been ap-
pointed Chairman of the Department of
Radiology at the School of Medicine of
the University of Colorado. Dr. Daves
received his M.D. degree from Johns Hop-
kins in 1954 and then attended the gradu-
ate school of radiology at Hopkins. Fol-
lowing a period as assistant in radiol-
ogy at the National Institutes of Health,
he accepted the position of Professor of
Radiology at the Denver School of Medi-
cine, where he remained until his present
appointment.

At the completion of a second five-year
term as misisonaries in Korea, HERBERT
Petrie MircHeLtL and Mrs. Mitchell will
return this summer on regular furlough
of one year. With their five children they
will spend the year in Decatur, Georgia,
and then return to the Presbyterian Mis-
sion in Korea.

JAmMes M. BALLENGEE has been elected
president of The Philadelphia Surburban
Water Company to succeed ‘THoMAs W.
Moses, °38, who has been named execu-
tive vice-president of Investors Diversi-
fied Services (see article, page 30. Bal-
lengee will resign as a partner of the
Philadelphia law firm of Morgan, Lewis,
& Bockins. He was previously assistant
secretary of Sears, Roebuck & Co. and
general attorney for its Eastern Division.

1949

MARRIED: ‘Thomas S. Hook and _ Pa-
tricia Ann Shipley were married on April
14, 1962, in Baltimore, Maryland. Tom is
associated with Paul Vanes _ Associates
Advertising in Baltimore.

Jim GRAYBEAL is one of more than fifty
employees in the Eastern Regional Of-
fice of the State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company who were honored on
their tenth anniversary with the company.
Jim is living in Charlottesville, Virginia.

Cuaries R. TREADGOLD has been named
vice-president agency department of the
Security Insurance Group of New Haven,
Connecticut, and he and his family have
moved to New Haven. His duties include
administration and supervision of agen-
cies, selection and training of agents, and
other activities related to communications
between the field and the home office.
Prior to joining Security in May, Mr.
Treadgold was associated with Central
National Group of Omaha as a _ vice-
president.

HAYDEN AusTIN has been moved around
the country quite often, engaged in gov-
ernment service. He and his wife, Virginia,

are now in Salt Lake City, Utah, where
Hayden is branch counsel for the Small
Business Administration.

As a missionary in Kobe, Japan, JAMES
‘T. MAGRUDER is serving as mission treasur-
er and chairman of the board of Yodo-
gawa Christian Hospital.

1950

WILLIAM S. HusBarp was elected general
counsel of Shenandoah Life Insurance
Company in April. Bill joined the Roa-
noke office of the insurance firm as coun-
sel in 1954 and was named assistant gener-
al counsel in 1959. In addition to his pro-
fessional duties, he is a director of the
Roanoke Kiwanis Club and of the Roa-
noke Red Cross Chapter, vice-president
of the Roanoke Estate Planning Council,
a chartered life underwriter, and a fellow
of the Life Office Management Institute.

GEORGE WILLIAM WHITEHURST received his
Ph.D. degree in history from The Univer-
sity of West Virginia in January, 1962,
and since then has been acting dean of
students at the Norfolk College of Wil-
liam and Mary. Along with the adminis-
trative duties, George teaches several class-
es and does a five-minute news analysis
daily for WTAR-TV in Norfolk.

The Atlanta Advertising Club chose
RIGHARD EpWARD HobcEs as its president
for the forthcoming year. Richard is vice-
president of the advertising and public
relations firm of Liller, Neal, Battle and
Lindsay, Inc., of Atlanta. Previous to his
work in the advertising field, he was on
the news staff of the Atlanta Constitution.

Dr. WILLIAM JAMES GARDNER, III, is as-
sociated with the Ogden,Utah, Clinic in
the practice of general surgery.

J. H. McCorMack, Jr., is vice-president of
the Atlantic National Bank of Jackson-
ville, Florida, in the business develop-
ment work. According to Jack, the bank
is the second largest in Florida. He and
his wife, “Ju Ju,” have four children, one
son and three daughters.

After graduating from the University of
Florida Law School in February, 1951,
JAmMeEs Nixon DANIEL has practiced law
in Pensacola with the firm of Beggs, Lane,
Daniel, Middlebrooks & Gaines. He and
his wife, the former Christine Zeigler,
have four children.

1951

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Eric GouLD Curry,
Jr., a son, Eric, on March 21, 1962, in
Baltimore, Maryland. Eric and his wife

also have a daughter who is two years
old.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Burton L. Litwin,
a son, Robert Aron, on April 15, 1962.

WILLIAM G. BEAN, JR., has achieved a
distinctive honor with The Prudential
Insurance Company of America. Bill's
outstanding record in 1961 ranked him

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

among The Prudential’s most successful
representatives and qualified him for
membership in their Hall of Honor, a
recognition reserved for their top pro-
ducers.

EDWARD P. BASSETT, instructor in The
State University of Iowa School of Jour-
nalism, has been named _ publisher of
the Daily Iowan, the University student-
edited newspaper. Ed went to Iowa State
as an instructor in journalism in 1960,

and since. then...he : has  served...as: the
School of Journalism field representative
to high school journalism teachers, execu-
tive secretary of the Iowa School Press
Association, and coordinator of the High
School Publications Workshop. Ed is also
doing work toward his Ph.D. in mass
communications.

Eric Huperr officially represented the
Episcopal Diocese of ‘Tulsa, Oklahoma, at
the consecration of the Coventry Cathe-

 

dral in Warwickshire, England, on May
28. The old cathedral, completed in 1450,
was destroyed by bombs in World War
II. In 1947 architects began plans to build
the new cathedral. Eric is business admin-
istrator of the Trinity Parish in Tulsa,
Oklahoma.

After two years in the Army, followed by
two years of working, FRANK DAVIDSON re-
turned to school in order to obtain a
degree in electronics. He is now with the

 

 

BARRING AN UPSET Republican
victory in Virginia’s Seventh Con-
gressional District this November,
John: GO. Marsan, fr, 41, will be-
come the next Washington and Lee
alumnus to serve in the House of
Representatives.

Marsh won the Democratic nom-
ination from his district by defeat-
ing four other candidates in the
primary election held on July 10.
The 35-year-old attorney received
more votes than the combined to-
tals of his two closest competitors.
His triumph reflected the popular-
ity and confidence he held from his
hometown of Strasburg, in the dis-
trict’s northern sector, to Lexing-
ton in the extreme southern part
of the district.

Many Washington and Lee alum-

SUMMER 1962

ni were active in Marsh’s campaign,

particularly in the  Lexington-
Rockbridge County area. As Vir-
ginia’s 1959 “Man of the Year” for
the Junior Chamber of Commerce,
Marsh also had organized support
from the Shenandoah Valley Jay-
cee groups, and he had substantial
backing from friends in area units
of the National Guard, which he
serves as a major.

Marsh campaigned heavily in the
predominantly rural Seventh Dis-
trict. He and his wife, the former
Glenn Ann Patterson—who taught
at Lexington’s Ruffner grade school
while Marsh was attending Wash-
ington and Lee—travelled many
miles as Marsh appeared before
any group who would hear him.

Marsh’s campaign was built on

the proven platform of Virginia
Democratic conservatism. His can-
didacy was known to be acceptable
to the state’s dominant political
organization, and he received warm
congratulations from Governor AlI-
bertis 5. “Harmison, |r, upon. his
victory.

The Roanoke Times, in a pro-
file feature about Marsh, comment-
ed this way:

“Politicians rate Marsh a_ top
campaigner. Friends say he has the
capacity to generate enthusiasm.
As an example, a family in Staun-
ton, never before in politics, set
up free pony rides in their yard one
day to attract a crowd for John
early in the campaign.

“Marsh’s campaign speeches re-
flect a youthful faith in the Ameri-
can economic and political system.
He talks about the ‘dynamics’ of
the economic system and the values
which have made America a great
nation. He feels, too, that if the
American society will work within
the framework of its political and
economic system ‘with its lasting
values’ then the United States need
never fear the challenges or threats
of Soviet Russia.

“...one year (he) was picked to
attend the National Strategy Sem-
inar at the National War College
on the dimensions of communist
ageression. His speeches reflect this
training.”

While at Washington and Lee
from 1947 until graduation in 1951,
Marsh was active as a fraternity
officer, including service as district
Archon for Phi Kappa Psi, and as
head of the Dance Board.

41

 

i

Development Laboratory of IBM in Endi-
cott, New York.

ABRAM DALTON JONES is currently asso-
ciate editor of The Greensboro (N. C.)
Record and was recently named chairman
of the North Carolina Editorial Writers
Conference. He and his wife, the former
Tina Marie Paul, have two children—a
daughter, Elizabeth, two years old and a
son, Abram Dalton Jones, HI, born May
28.

GORDON ILER of Owensboro, Kentucky, to-
gether with his partner, James Gregory,
won the Men’s Pair Consolation Event in
the Spring National Bridge ‘Tournament
held in Lexington, Kentucky.

RoserT J. INGRAM is a partner in the law
firm of Gilmer, Harman & Sadler in Pu-
laski, Virginia. Bob married the former
Jacqueline Murray, Southern Seminary,
‘51, and they have two children: Robert,
Jr., age five, and Lyn, age eight.

Dr. JAMES Z. SHANKS has been awarded a
Fellowship in Gastroenterology at the Na-
tional Institutes of Health in Bethesda
and also a Georgia Heart Association
Fellowship in Cardiology. At the comple-
tion of this latter study, Jim plans to
enter private practice in Atlanta, Georgia.
He took his medical training at the Uni-
versity of Georgia and interned at the
Medical College of Virginia.

Harper M. SmiruH, with his wife and six-
teen year old daughter, Karen, lives in
Montgomery County, Maryland, “the most
progressive and cosmopolitan area in the
country.” For ten years he has been in
the general practice of law there, but he
has had time to serve as president of the
Junior Chamber of Commerce in Rock-
ville, Maryland, and as the charter presi-
dent of the Connecticut Park Parent
Teachers Association.

After being recalled to active duty in the
Korean War EMMETT J. “JACK” BALLARD
was released in 1953 but went back into
the Central Intelligence Agency with
Stragetic Air Command where he wound
out a rather long string of military duties
and services. In 1959 he retired from
Federal Service and _ began __ teaching
English at Woodbury School, Salem, New
Hampshire, where he is presently engaged.
Jack and his wife, Natalie, and their
two sons, Jack, Jr., age 12, and Robert,
age 10, reside in Methuen, Massachusetts.

1952

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ERNEST HOGE
CLARKE, a daughter, Lucinda Littlejohn,
born September 19, 1961. Ernie is pres-
ident of the Washington and Lee Alumni
Chapter in Louisville, Kentucky. He is
a lawyer with the firm of McElwain,
Dinning, Clarke & Winstead.

EDWARD SICKLE has been promoted to
project manager for the Middletown,
Ohio, Division of Aeronca Manufactur-

42

ing Corporation. In his new capacity Ted
will be responsible for many of Aeronca’s
projects, including the B7o, Grumman
Aircraft’s speed brake, along with other
sub-contracts from North American Avia-
tion of Columbus and Los Angeles, and
Atomics International, a division of North
American. Ted lives with his wife, Doris,
and four children in Middletown.

Formerly with Armstrong Cork Com-
pany in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, HELMUT
H. Huser is currently with McCann-
Erickson of New York, a management-
development program firm.

After completing his ROTC assignment at
V.M.I., WittiAM H. NELSON _ received
orders to Japan in 1953. He was never
able to complete law school and is pres-
ently back in Japan on his second tour
of duty. Bill is now a lieutenant-colonel
and is assigned as Area Engineer for
Tachikawa Air Base, which is twenty-
six miles from the heart of Tokyo. He
writes that perhaps he can complete his
law school work when he retires from
the service in 1964.

EMMETT E. ‘TUCKER is a partner in the
law firm of Hanson, Hanson, and Coff
in Washington, D.C.

1953

JoHN W. Dopp, Jr., is assistant to the
Product Advertising Manager for Camp-
bell Soup Company. He and Mrs. Dodd
and their three children live in Haddon-
field, New Jersey.

JAck ScHILTHUIS plans to enter Princeton
Theological Seminary this summer to be-
gin studying for the Presbyterian minis-
try. He has been associated with Don
Oliver, Inc., of Hazelton, Pennsylvania,
as personnel manager. Jack and his wife,
Martha, have three children, the eldest
of whom is five years old.

Since September of 1960 J. EDWARD WISE
has been a field attorney with the Na-
tional Labor Relations Board. Formerly
he was with the Tampa, Florida, office,
but he has been transferred to Memphis.

Dr. Opre WEEMS HOLLOWELL expects to
be discharged soon from service at the
Valley Forge Army Hospital in Phoenix-
ville, Pennsylvania, and is to report to
Mayo’s Clinic.

S. H. GALPERIN, JR., is associated with
Galperin Music Company in Charleston,
West Virginia.

CHARLES ScoTT May has been rector of
St. Paul’s Episcopal Church in Newport,
Arkansas, since 1958. He is also Youth
Advisor of the Arkansas Diocese and a
member of the board of trustees of All
Saints’ School in Vicksburg, Mississippi.

WILLIAM E. Brock, III, Chattanooga busi-
ness man, civic worker and Republican
leader, announced his candidacy for Ten-
nessee’s Third District Congressional Seat.

Bill, who is a young Republican Commit-
teeman for ‘Tennessee, has taken an active
part in the GOP and has made numerous
talks. He is vice-president of marketing
for Brock Candy Company. Bill and_ his
wife, the former Laura Handley, have a
son, William E. Brock, IV.

After gaining valuable information oper-
ating his own public relations office,
ROGER W. Duprey has joined the staff of
Public Relations for the Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers Association. The Dudleys
live in Arlington, Virginia.

WILLIAM WIRTH owns and operates a fuel
oil service and garden mart, Hitchner
Brothers, in Woodstown, New Jersey. He
is executive board member of the Woods-
town Curtain Call Club, the little theater
eroup, and is on the advisory board of
the Chamber of Commerce.

1954

BORN: Mr. and Mrs RoBert M. ANDREWS,
a daughter, Susan Keith, on April 29, 1962.
The Andrews have returned from Eng-
land where Robert was with UPI in
London, and Robert is back with the
Richmond Times-Dispatch copy desk.

Roy MatrHews, who has been an instruc-
tor in the history department at the
University of North Carolina this past
year, completed the work for his Ph.D.
degree in June.

Four Washington and Lee Alumni are
listed in the 1962 Roster of the Million
Dollar Round Table of the National Asso-
ciation of Life Underwriters: JAmrEs D.
BONEBRAKE, 754; WESLEY G. BROWN, '51;
JosEPH KYLE HOLLEY, JR., °50; and FERpDI-
NAND PHILLIPS, JR., 51. ‘These men must
have sold at least a million dollars of life
insurance in 1961 or else have met the
even stricter requirements for Life mem-
bership by sales in prior years. Fewer
than one per cent of the world’s life
insurance agents are Round Table mem-
bers.

RoBERT O. PAXTON is now an_ instructor
in history at the University of California
in Berkeley.

1955

REVEREND W. L. Dots, Jr., has recently
become minister of St. John’s Episcopal
Church in Arlington, Virginia.

PETER ELSAESSER has been promoted to a
district manager for the Automatic
Sprinkler Corporation of America. He has
for his territory Missouri, Southern IIli-
nois, Western Kentucky, and Western
Tennessee and Arkansas.

J. SLADE CARTER, JR., is on the committee
on boy’s work for the Philadelphia Union
League. Among many other things, this
committee provides four scholarships each
year for deserving young men. Slade is
also co-chairman of the prominent Phila-
delphia group, the Bachelor’s Assembly.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1956

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN JOSEPH Pop-
ULAR, II, a daughter, Karen Tippett, on
April 14, 1962. Karen is the Popular’s
third daughter. John was recently pro-
moted to the position of Employee Re-
lations Supervisor, Small Tube Division,
of the Anaconda American Brass Com-
pany, in Waterbury, Connecticut. He has
also been elected vice-president of Nauga-
hide Valley Personnel Council.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN KENT KANE,
II, a son, Robert Tenney Kane, on May
6, 1952, in Richmond, Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. E. DUNCAN Mc-
CARTHY, a son, Edward ‘Trentham, on
January 31, 1962. The McCarthys and a
daughter, Mary Ann, live in Orlando,
Florida, where Duncan is _ advertising
manager of The Corner Cupboard, a
weekly newspaper.

ALLEN BAXTER IpE has moved to Balti-
more as a result of his promotion in the
business sales department of the Liberty
Mutual Insurance Company.

Sam SyME finished his Ph.D. degree the
summer of 1961 and has since been asso-
ciated with the Department of Education
at Duke University. Sam is now moving
to Emory University where he will be
the Assistant Director of the Master of
Arts in a teaching program sponsored
by the Ford Foundation. His family will
reside in Atlanta.

Dr. Encar G. GIVHAN, II, is now stationed
with the Air Force Medical Corps at
Gunter Field, Montgomery, Alabama. Fol-
lowing his graduation from the Medical
School of Washington University, he did
his internship and residency at the Van-
derbilt Hospital in Nashville. ‘The Giv-
hans, with their four children, are living

in Montgomery.
1957

MARRIED: JoHN ALAN GOLD was married
to Miss Mari Alison Sour on June 24,
1962, in New York City.

MARRIED; SAMUEL HENRY PRESTON, III,
and Julia Ermelinda Soule were married
on June 16, 1962, in Walter Reed Me-
morial chapel in Washington, D.C. The
Prestons will make their home in Aspen,
Colorado.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD C. WHITE-
FORD, a son, John H., on November 14,
1961.

MIcHAEL E. CHANEY received a Master in
Business Administration degree from Har-
vard University on June 14, 1962. He and
his wife, Diana, plan to move to Dallas,
Texas, where Mike will begin work with
an investment company.

Effective July ist, WittiAM H. ABELOFF
became a partner in the law firm of
Cohen, Cox & Kelley in Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

SUMMER 1962

BELDON BUTTERFIELD is presently working
for ‘Time-Life International in Mexico.
He is manager for Book Publications for
Latin America. The family has moved to
Mexico.

CHARLES KANNAPEL has been reassigned to
a new location in the marketing organiza-
tion of the American Filter Company,
Inc. He is being returned to the Home
Office in Louisville to become a regional
supervisor for the Air Filter Division.

Ross H. Bayarp lives in Spartanburg,
South Carolina, where he is teaching his-
tory at Wofford College.

PAUL R. SPECKMAN, JR,. is on active duty
with the Navy, attached to the Staff Legal
Office at ‘Treasure Island, California. As a
primary duty, Paul has been acting as
Defense Counsel at the General Court-
Martial. In addition he is assistant direc-
tor of the 12th Naval District Legal Sem-
inar which will be held in August. Prior
to his work as defense counsel, he was
attached to the Physical Evaluation Board
at Oakland Hospital where he represent-
ed neuropsychiatric patients who were
being discharged from the service.

1958

MARRIED: RicHarpd E. WILBOURN and
Miss Deanna Auril were married Janu-
ary 20, 1962, in Charlottesville, Virginia.
The couple live in Meridian, Mississippi,
where Richard is a partner in the law
firm of Wilbourn, Lord and Williams.

MARRIED: SIDNEY ScoTr WHIPPLE and
Linda Ann Leslie of Bloomfield, Connec-
ticut, were married on September 9g, 1961.
The couple resides in Brooklyn, New
York, where Sid is employed as a public
relations writer for the New York adver-
tising firm of Batten, Barton, Durstine &
Osborn, Inc.

MARRIED: ALLAN JOHN MEAD and Pa-
tricia Ann Moffit of Lynchburg were mar-
ried on November 15, 1961. Girt Hot-
LAND, JOHN ‘TUCKER, and BILL RICE, all of
the class of 1958, were among the ushers.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. W. R. KELTING,
III, a son, William Saxe, on February 17,
1962.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ARCHIE OLIVER
Jenkins, II, a son, Archie Oliver, III, on
January 21, 1962. Arch is now employed
in Jacksonville, Florida, by the firm of
Pierce, Garrison, Wulbern Corporation, a
member firm of the New York Stock
Exchange.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. FRANK PAyng, II.
a daughter, Ann Hilary, on March 19,
1962. Frank was graduated from _ Beth-
any College in 1962 with a B.A. in public
relations and journalism. He is now an
account executive with Walter G. O’Con-
nor Company, advertising and motion
picture producers in Harrisburg, Penn-
sylvania.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JosepH L. LYLE,
Jr., a daughter, Martha Lawrence, on
March 30, 1962. They also have a son,
John Brooke, four years old. Joe is asso-
ciated with the law firm of Hickson and
Davies in Lynchburg, Virgiina.

WILLIAM B. Wispom, JR. received a Bach-
elor of Laws degree from Harvard Uni-
versity on June 14, 1962.

PAuL A. IRONSIDE, JR., graduated with the
degree of Doctor of Medicine from Hah-
nemann Medical College and Hospital of
Philadelphia in June. Dr. Ironside will
intern at the West Jersey Hospital in
Camden, New Jersey.

RANDOLPH WILSON LUNSFORD received his
Bachelor of Divinity degree from Drew
University, Madison, New _ Jersey, on
June 4, 10962.

After finishing law school in February,
1961, CHARLES P. Mays, JR., was on ex-
tended duty with the Army and in De-
cember, 1961, was transferred to the
Judge Advocate General Corps. Charles
expects permanent duty in Fort Rucker,
Alabama, until December, 1963, or until
sooner release.

ROGER G. CLARK is sales service supervi-
sor for the American Olean Tile Com-
pany in Landsdale, Pennsylvania.

This past year WILLIAM C. MILLER was a
Ford Foundation Fellow at the New York
University School of Law and was a
candidate for an LL.M. in Comparative
Law in June. For the coming year, Bill
and his wife will be in Germany where
he has a German Government award and
also a Ford Foundation Grant. Upon
completion of his thesis next year at
the University of Munich, Bill will receive
a J.S.P.

GEORGE SAGE Lyons was awarded an Army
Commendation Medal at Ft. Benning.
The award was presented by Col. Homer
Drissel, Staff Judge Advocate of the U.S.
Army Infantry Center. The citation read,
in part, “His performance of duty ex-
emplifies the highest professional merit,
a spirit of friendliness and dedicated in-
dustry, based on sound judgment. His
meticulous attention to details, integrity,
and enthusiasm earned for him the re-
spect and admiration of all with whom
he was associated.” Lt. Lyons is leaving
the service to enter private practice of law.
He is married to the focmer Elsie Crain
and the couple have a 14 months old son.

SAM B. TANNAHILL is working for IBM in
Richmond, Virginia.

After sixteen months in Korea, E. B.
HEMPSTEAD, a first lieutenant in the Army,
is now attending the Artillery Officer
Career course at Ft. Sill, Oklahoma.

Expecting release in August, 1963, LEwIs
G. JOHN is first lieutenant in the U.S.
Army (air defense) at NIKE site in Edge-
mont, Pennsylvania.

43

JOHN MosELEy HAm is teaching history at
Grace Church School in New York City.

Currently a recalled reservist, KreirH R.
BARNEY, JR., is teaching Army French
classes in Fort Gordon, Georgia. He just
completed a U.S. Army civil affairs officers
course.

J. KENNETH SADLER, JR., was released from
the Navy last summer as a Lt. (jg). He is
now living in Gulfport, Mississippi, where
he is a special agent for the John Han-
cock Mutual Life Insurance Company. He
and his wife, Sally, Hollins, ’58, have a
son, Chris.

1959

MARRIED: RORERT CONRAD KETCHAM and
Caroline Gibbons Tatnall were married on
June 3. 1962, in Lexington, Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD P. CARTER,
JR., a daughter, Leslie Ann, on March 6,
1962. Dick received his Master of Science
degree from the Carnegie Institute of
Technology in June and will now work
on his Ph.D. in chemistry. The family
lives in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Lewis H. LARur received a Bachelor of
Laws degree from Harvard University on
June 14, 1962.

Lr. Lawrence M. SmaiL graduated in
June from Transportation Officer’s course
at Ft. Eustis and has been assigned as the
assistant legal officer. His work will con-
sist of acting as trial counsel for special
courts-martial as well as military claims
and legal assistance responsibilities. Lar-
ry expects to remain at this same job and
station for the next two years.

For further study in his chosen field,
Ropert C. MOELLER, III, is now enrolled
in the Harvard graduate school to work
towards a Ph.D. in Art History. His wife
Dotty, graduated from the Rhode Island
School of Design this past June with a
BFA in sculpture. The couple live in
Arlington, Massachusetts.

After two and a half years with the U.S.
Army in La Rochelle, France, Juris S.
Marks has been released and is with the
Merchant’s Credit Association of Mem-
phis, ‘Tennessee.

JouHN Howarpb Esperian received his M.A.
degree in English at Boston College in
the summer of 1961. He is working at
Prentice-Hall Book Publishing Company
where he is assistant editor of the Col-
lege Text Book Division.

First Lr. Eucene N. S$. Girard completed
the officer orientation course at The
Armor School, Fort Knox, in April. He
was trained in instructor techniques, the
principles of leadership, and. platoon
and company level armor tactics.

THomAs R. Gowentock, III, is a vice-

44

president of a new real estate corpora-
tion, Relcoa, in Chicago. Tom was. for-
merly with the Nothern Trust Company
of Chicago.

C. H. Masland & Sons, manufacturers of
carpets, has appointed ALFRED F. BRACHER,
III, as territory manager with headquart-

 

ALFRED F. BrACHER, ITI

ers in Cincinnati, Ohio. Fred joined Mas-
land last November and upon comple-
tion of an extensive training program at
the Masland mill in Carlisle, Pennsyl-
vania, and at principal sales offices, he
was assigned to the sales department of
the South East Division until being named
to his present position.

1960

MARRIED: FRANK SURFACE, Jr., and Sally
Holcombe were married in September,
1961. Frank is at present a student at
the Law School of the University of
Florida, and the couple live in Gaines-
ville.

MARRIED; Prerer Ropert MerrRILL and
Harriette Beeson Sterns were married
in Summit, New Jersey, on June 16,
1962. Pete is stationed at the Fleet In-
telligence Center in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.

MARRIED: Joseru J. Smiru, III, and
Katherine Hill Carter were married in
St. Margaret’s Episcopal Church, Wash-
ington, D.C., on June 9, 1962. FRANKLIN
SMITH, 62, was his brother’s best man.
Among the ushers were LAuRENCE KINGs-
BURY, ‘61, and LLoyd McMILLEN, ’6o. Joe
received a master’s degree in Business
Administration from Harvard in June.

MARRIED: Roy Catessy FLANNAGAN, Jr.,
and Julia Porcher Wickham were mar-
ried on June 8, 1962, in Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

THOMAS W. GILLIAM, JR., received a Mas-
ter of Business Administration degree
from Harvard University on June 14, 1962.

WaLpo FE. KNICKERBOCKER was recently
promoted to first heutenant on Okinawa,
where he is assigned to the grd Artillery,
a Hawk Missile unit.

Representing the U.S. Army, Pacific, Lr.
JOHN A. MorTON participated in the 1962
All-Army Rifle and Pistol Championships
at the Infantry Center, Fort Benning,
Georgia, in June. He competed against
more than 500 other top Army marksmen
from military installations throughout
the world. He is regularly assigned as
a mortar section leader in the First Divi-
sion’s 7th Cavalry in Korea.

JAMeEs R. Lourir is stationed with the
U.S. Army in Richmond, Virginia, at
the Defense General Supply Center as
recruiting officer.

1961

MARRIED: Haywood) MoreLAND- BALL
and Anne ‘Tucker Towers were married
on June 16, 1962, at the First Presby-
terian Church in Jacksonville, Florida.

MARRIED: Norvett, ALEXANDER Laps-
LEY and Sara Virginia Hotinger were
married on June 21, 1962. Norvell is an
attorney in Harrisonburg, Virginia, where
they will make their home.

MARRIED: A. DoucLas SALMON, III, was
wed June gth in. Memphis, ‘Tennessee, to
the former Miss Barbara Gatchell. Doug
expects to enter the Air Force Officers
Training School in San Antonio in
August.

MARRIED: Catvert G. DE COLIGNy, Jr.,
and Patricia Ann Rosenshine were mar-
ried on May 19, 1962, in Richmond, Vir-
ginia. Cal is employed in the overseas
division of the First National City Bank
of New York and expects to be sent to
Europe to live within the next several
years.

Lr. Rocer D. Hopen participated in
Exercise Mesa Drive, a joint Army-Air
Force training maneuver , at Yakima,
Washington, Firing Center in May. Over
26,000 Army troops and airmen were
engaged in Mesa Drive, the largest joint
field training exercise held in the Paci-
fic Northwest.

Lr. CHArLES W. Day, ITI, recently com-
pleted the officer orientation course at
The Armor School, Fort Knox, Kentucky,
where he was trained in the duties and
responsibilities of an armor small unit
commander.

Lr. JosEpH CLIFTON ELcrn, JR., has been
assigned to the U.S. Army Research and
Development Laboratory at the Army
Chemical Center, Maryland. Before en-
tering the Army he was employed as a
chemical assistant by the American Cyan-
imid Company.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

In May Roperr K. Park participated
with more than 6,000 other personnel in
LOGEX 62, a two-week command post
logistics exercise and map maneuver at
Fort Lee, Virginia. LOGEX is an annual
exercise for testing the concepts taught
at the various service schools. Lt. Park
took part in LOGEX 62 on temporary
active duty from Fort Eustis, Virginia,
where he is attending the stevedore of-
flcers’ course at the ‘Transportation School.

Lr. WittrAmM M. HEALD recently completed
the officer training orientation course at
‘Lhe --Intantry -Scheol, ~ Ft. Benning,
Georgia.

ATHERTON Lowry has been taking an in-
tensive course in the Persian language in
preparation for work in the School for
the Blind in Isfahan, Iran. He will take
over the work with the boys and men of
this school, which is under the organiza-
tion Welfare of the Blind, Inc., a Chris-
tian Agency for the sightless of the Mid-
dle East.

Lr. NATHAN P. B. Simpson completed the
eight-week officer orientation course at
The Infantry School, Fort Benning,
Georgia. He received instruction in the
duties and responsibilities of infantry
platoon leaders.

JoHN C. DUMLER, JR., is attending the
University of Maryland School of Medi-
cine.

WILLIAM H. SNYDER is a trainee in the
marketing staff of the Ford Motor Com-
pany, International Group. He is now
stationed at Dearborn, Michigan.

1962

MARRIED: MicuarL A. HENRY and Ca-
mille Knight were married on February
3, 1902: ‘he couple lives i Austin, Texas,
where Mike is attending the University of
‘Texas Law School.

MARRIED: RicHARD Louis BARBOUR and
Betty Jane Winters were married on June
9g, 1962, at Mount Carmel Presbyterian
Church in Steeles Tavern, Virginia. The
couple will live in West Long Branch,
New Jersey.

E. RAYMOND MILLER was named on: the
second team in the 1962 All-American la-
crosse selections by the United States La-
crosse Coaches Association. Getting hon-
orable mention also was another Wash-
ington and. Lee class mate, GHARLIE
GUMMEY. Ray, who tallied more than
goo saves during the 1962 season, was
a participant in the North-South game
at Rutgers University on June 8th. He
is presently in a management training
program at the American Can Company
in Baltimore.

Lr. GAYLE R. REED has been assigned to
Minot AFB, North Dakota, after com-
pleting: the U.S... Air Force course. for
legal officers at ‘Tinker AFB, Oklahoma.

SUMMER 1962

 

1901

‘THE Rev. Roperr WALLER BLAIN died in
Danville, Kentucky, on April 6, 1962. Dr.
Blain was active in alumni affairs and at
one time had served as class agent for
his academic class.

1904

WILLARD NEAL Gruss died in Catawba
Sanatorium, Catawba, Virginia, on March
29, 1962. Mr. Grubb devoted his active
life to the teaching of Latin and Greek,
and throughout the years his many stu-
dents acknowledged their indebtedness to
him for his instruction. He was a loyal
alumnus and exemplified the highest
ideals of Washington and Lee for more
than half a century.

1905

GEORGE WARREN Morris died in Rich-
mond, Virginia, on December 8, 1961.
Mr. Morris had been in public school
work in Richmond for many years, serv-
ing at one time as principal of a school.

KENNETH L. Morrison a former member

of the Board of Supervisors of Rockbridge
County, Virginia, and a leader in the
Republican party in his area, died on
April 30, 1962. Mr. Morrison owned and
operated, until his retirement, a farm on
Kerrs Creek near Lexington.

1909

THE Rev. DEVALL LANGHORNE GWATHMEY
of Wytheville, Virginia, died on July 11,
1962. He was rector of St. John’s Episcopal
Church from 1921-1955 and had been rec-
tor emeritus since that time. Dr. Gwath-
mey had just returned this spring to
Wytheville after an operation at DePaul
Hospital in Norfolk. He_ received his
degree from Virginia Seminary in 1918
and was awarded an honorary degree of
Doctor of Divinity from Washington and
Lee in 1992.

1910

CHARLES IvieE Dwiccins of Lakeland, Flor-
ida, died on March 9g, 1962. Until 1923
Mr. Dwiggins was in the banking business
in Oklahoma. At that time he retired to
engage in the citrus producing business
in Florida. He formerly served as City
Commissioner and Mayor-Commissioner
of Lakeland.

1972

JoHN OLAF ApbAms died on July 7, 1961,
in Osborne, Kansas, where he made his
home. Mr. Adams was a public relations

 

Herbert Fitzpatrick, ’93

HERBERT FITZPATRICK, a one-time
struggling Huntington, West Vir-
ginia, lawyer who became head of
the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway,
died on July 6, 1962, in the C&O
Hospital in Clifton Forge, Virginia,
at the age of go.

Mr. Fitzpatrick had been a mem-
ber of the Board of Trustees of
Washington and Lee University
since 1931, serving as rector of the
Board from 1941 to 1953. He held
an honorary LL.D. from the Uni-
versity, bestowed upon him in
1928.

Mr. Fitzpatrick received a law
degree from Washington and Lee
in 1893 and set up a law office in
Charleston, West Virginia. Later
he accepted the position of local
counsel for C&O and then moved
up through the ranks to board

chairman and head of the C&O. At
his death he was director and mem-
ber of the C&O Executive Commit-
tee.

Mr. Fitzpatrick developed an in-
terest in railroad law in the course
of his work for C&O and later spe-
cialized in that field, becoming rec-
ognized as an authority. For his
outstanding contribution to his
state, he was awarded an honorary
degree of Doctor of Laws by the
University of West Virginia in
April of the current year.

He had been counsel for the
Pullman Company, the Chesapeake
and Potomac Company, and the
Huntington Water Company, as
well as vice-president and director
of many other railway systems and
major companies.

aD

director for numerous business firms in
his area, and at the time of his death he
was serving his twelfth year in the
Kansas Legislature.

1913

WILLIAM JUNKIN FLAGG died in Christians-
burg, Virginia, on July 30, 1961. Mr.
Flagg had been for many years head of
the English Department at Polytechnic
Institute in Baltimore, Maryland.

1914

REESE ‘THOMPSON GRUBERT of Staunton,
Virginia, died on January 2, 1962. Mr.
Grubert practiced law in Staunton for
twenty-seven years.

1915

W. W. Casu, Jr., died on June 19, 1962,
at Eagle Rock, Virginia. Until 1945 Bill
Cash enjoyed a distinguished career as
chief chemist for several large industrial
research laboratories. Forced to break off
this work for reasons of health, he re-
turned to his home town of Eagle Rock
and subsequently regained his health to
the extent that he became a science teach-
er at Eagle Rock High School. Bill Cash
then devoted his teaching ability, his in-
spirational powers, and his vast scientific
knowledge not only to stimulating the
boys and girls of his county to seek
learning, but also to solving whatever
personal or academic problems his stu-
dents might have. The science club of
his high school under his sponsorship
won repeated awards from the Virginia
Academy of Science for its outstanding
program of accomplishments. An amaz-
ing number from his graduating classes
attended college and secured degrees. He
himself was honored by the chemists of
Virginia at a dinner. Since 1957 Bill Cash
had served as a class agent, spending
much time in letter-writing and in mak-
ing personal contacts with his classmates.
His life was one of devotion to his fami-
ly and his students, his University, and
his community.

1916

VIVIAN LLEWLLYN PAGE, prominent attor-
ney and colorful Virginia politician, died
in a Norfolk hospital on June 21, 1962.
Mr. Page represented Norfolk in the Gen-
eral assembly from 1924 to 1942. He dis-
turbed political alignments with two un-
successful bids for the governorship of
Virginia.

1917

BALDWIN B. BANE, retired executive ad-
viser to the Securities Exchange Commis-
sion, died on May 23, 1962. Mr. Bane
organized and directed the Federal Trade
Commission’s Securities Division, previous-
ly serving as an attorney with the FTC
from 1922 to 1933. When the SEC was
created by the Securities Act of 1934, he
became executive administrator of the

46

agency. He became director of the SEC’s
Corporation Finance Division in 1935, in
which position he served until his ap-
pointment as executive adviser to SEC
in 1952.

EmMorY POWELL BARROW, a former mem-
ber of the House of Delegates and the
State Highway Commission of Virginia,
died in a Richmond hospital on May 4,
1962. Mr. Barrow maintained a law of-
fice at Lawrenceville, Virginia, and rep-
resented the Bank of Alberta, Virginia,
and the Seaboard Air Line Railroad.

1918

Dr. ARCHIBALD B. SHEPPERSON, for better
than forty years Professor of English and
former head of the department at the
University of Virginia died at his home in
Charlottesville July 24, 1962. He had re-
turned earlier this summer from a tour
of Italy and England and had just com-
pleted a manuscript of a book on the
novelist, Henry Fielding. His academic
field was eighteenth century literature and
he taught an undergraduate course in
Shakespeare and graduate courses in the
history of the novel and Johnson and Bos-
well. In 1957 Washington and Lee hon-
ored Dr. Shepperson with a Doctor of Let-
ters degree. Having served in World War
I he was also in Naval communications
and public relations work during World
War II and was discharged with rank of
lieutenant commander.

1919

WILLIAM Boyp Watts died on May 8,
1962, in Rome, Georgia. Before moving
to Georgia, Mr. Watts was in the lumber
business in Charleston, West Virginia.
In Lindale, Georgia, he was active in the
American. Legion post and was_ service
officer prior to ill health.

1920

Dr. DAvin W. Hotcomes, a dentist of
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, died on
May 18, 1962.

192]

W. BRAxTOoN Dew, a native of Lynch-
burg, Virginia, died in New Hartford,
Connecticut, on June 11, 1962. Mr. Dew
until 1924 practiced law in Wytheville,
Virginia. At that time he joined Aetna
Life Affiliated Companies as an attorney,
and at his retirement was general counsel
for all Aetna companies.

1929

CHARLES AUGUSTINE WEBBER of Paris, Ken-
tucky, died in that city on January 20,
1962.

1930

WILLIAM HowArp Hawkins died in Wil-
mington, Delaware, on May 14, 1962. Mr.
Hawkins was product credit manager in
the DuPont Company’s treasurer’s depart-
ment. He joined DuPont as a clerk in

1930 and four years later became a credit
man. In 1942 he was appointed assistant
manager of the banking. and foreign ex-
change section and was shortly made sec-
tion manager. The promotion to manager
came in 1952, and Mr. Hawkins had re-
cently been responsible for explosives, in-
dustrials, biochemicals, plastics, and mis-
cellaneous accounts. In his senior year at
Washington and Lee he was captain of
the football team.

1930

CLARENCE E. KENNEMER, JR., an attorney
of Dallas, Texas, died on May 25, 10962.
Mr. Kennemer was at one time director
and general counsel for Highland Park
State Bank of Dallas and special counsel
for the Texas State Board of Dental
Examiners.

1931

JAMES HOLLOWAY ALEXANDER died on
May 31, 1962, at his farm near Lexing-
ton, Kentucky. Over many years Mr.
Alexander was active in civic work,
particularly efforts of the community to
prevent and to correct juvenile delin-
quency. He had been chairman of the
board of the Big Brother Movement in
Lexington, Kentucky.

1938

ALFRED MILTON Morrison, businessman
and civic leader of Houston, Texas, died
on July 22, 1962. Milton had been ex-
tremely successful as a representative of
the State Mutual Life Assurance Com-
pany of America, earning membership
in the Million DoHar Roundtable of the
National Association of Underwriters. He
Was a past president of the Houston
Lions Club and an elder in the Presby-
terian church. Alumni affairs in the
Houston area profited from Milton’s cap-
able and loyal efforts for Washington
and Lee, and he had served as a class ag-
ent and regional fund drive chairman,
and was for many years an officer of the
Houston chapter.

1953

CHARLES ‘I’. WILSON, an attorney of Hunt-
ington, West Virginia, died on May gg,
1962.

KENNETH DAKIN BROwN, Jr., died sud-
denly in Montclair, New Jersey, on De-
cember 6, 1961.

1961

Epwarb G. WEBSTER, JR., and his parents,
Mr. and Mrs. E. G. Webster of Norfolk,
Virginia, died July 6, 1962, in a two-car
crash in Basingstoke, England. The par-
ents were visiting their only son who
was a student in economics at the Uni-
versity of London. As a student at Wash-
ington and Lee he was president of Lamb-
da Chi Alpha, managing editor of the
Ring-tum Phi, a member of Sigma Delta
Chi, and finished his academic work with
high honors.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

CHAPTER CORRESPONDENTS

Ae pelag i ude M. M. Long, Jr., °48,

t. Paul National Bank Building, St.
Paul, Virginia

Augusta-Rockingham—J. B. Stombock, ’41,
Box 594, Waynesboro, Virginia

Atlanta—Farris P. Hotchkiss, ’58, 3595 Ivy
Road, EK.

Baltimore—Lawrence W. Galloway, ’43, 6
Longwood Road

Birmingham—John V. Coe, ’25, 1631 North
3rd Street

Charleston, West Virginia—Lee M. Kenna,
°40, 114 Ashby Avenue

Chattanooga—Gerry U. Stephens, ’50, 2720
Haywood Avenue

Chicago—Charles A, Strahorn, '28, Winnet-
ka Trust and Savings Bank, Winnetka,
Illinois

Charlotte—John Schuber, Jr., °44, 1850
Sterling Road, Charlotte 2. N. Cc.

Cleveland—Hal R. Gates, Jr.,
Wickfield Road, Cleveland 22

Cumberland Valley—James L. Rimler, ’31,
N. Court St., Frederick, Maryland

ae Richmond Williamson,  ’51,
P. O. Box 497

"48, 19801

Florida a Coast—Charles P. Lykes, ’39,
P. O. Box 2879, Tampa, Florida

Houston—Robert I. Peeples, °57, 2344 South
Boulevard

Jacksonville—Robert P. Smith, Jr., ’54,
1221 Florida Title Building

Kansas ee H. Leedy, ’49, 15 West
10th Street

Louisville—Ernest
Sprite Road

Lynchburg—William W. Lynn, Jr., ’23,
1105 Episcopal School Road

Mid-South—J. Hunter Lane, Jr., ’52, 727
Commerce Title Bldg.. Memphis, Tenn.

New Orleans—James W. Hammett, '40,
1215 Prytaina Street, New Orleans 40,
Louisiana

New York—Paul E. Sanders, ’43, 96 Ralph
Avenue, White Plains, New York

New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Mo-
ran, '13, Beckley, West Virginia

Norfolk, Virginia—Ferdinand Phillips, Jr.,
"D1, 1705 Banning Rd., Norfolk

North Texas—J. B. Sowell, Jr., °54 Ed-
wards, Fortson, Sowell and Akin, 23rd
Floor Adolphus Tower, Dallas 2, Texas

Northern Louisiana—Robert U. Goodman,
’50, 471 Leo Street, Shreveport, Louisiana

Palm Beach-Ft. Lauderdale—Meredith F.
Baugher, ’25, 210 Orange Grove Road,
Palm Beach, Florida

Peninsula—John FP. Bowen, Jr., ’51, The
Daily Press, Inc., 215-217 25th Street,
Newport News, Virginia

Philadelphia—Stephen Berg, ’58, 535 Pel-
ham Road

Piedmont—A., Pullen, Jr., ’36, 203 South-
eastern Building. Greensboro, Ce

Pittsburgh—A. M. Doty, ’35, Quail Hill
Road, Fox-Chapel, Pittsburgh,

Richmond—John F. Kay, Jr., i 5403
Kingsbury Road

Roanoke—William R, Holland, a Moun-
tain Trust Bank, P. O. Box 1 411

San Antonio—John W. Goode, Jr.,
N, St. Mary’s Street

St. Louis—Burr W. Miller, °49, 6632 Pep-
peridge Drive, St. Louis 34 oO.

Southern Ohio—Robert W. Hilton, Jr., ’38,
3277 Hardisty Avenue, Cincinnati 8, Ohio

Tri-State—Joe W. Dingess, ’21, 151 Kings
Highway, Huntington, West ‘Virginia

Tulsa—Phillip R. Campbell, '57, 603 Phil-
tower Bldg., Tulsa, Oklahoma

Uurer Potomac—Thomas N. Berry, '38, 15

Allegany Ae Cumberland, Maryland

Washington, C. — Arthur Clarendon
Smith, Jr., AL 1313 You Street, N.W.

Wilmington—Russell F. Applegate, ’52,
Street Road, Kennett Square, Pa.

H. Clarke, ’°52, 306

°43, 201

 

If you move, contact the nearest
chapter correspondent for
news of meetings.

SUMMER 1962

 

Bachelor of Laws

Bachelor of Science
Bachelor of Arts

 

Degrees Awarded, 1961-62

October February June

Bachelor of Science (Commerce)

Previous

1961 1962 1962 Total Year

 

 

1 6 29 36 ay
1 2 29 36 30
1 O 27 28 30
1 A. ASS 14g: 2135
4 12 pel. 248. pee

 

 

lumni

Chapter

SOUTHERN OHIO

A meeting of the Southern Ohio
alumni chapter was conducted at
the University Club in Cincinnati
on ‘Tuesday evening, May 22. Out-
going president, Bob Wersel, 42,
presided, and Bill Washburn from
Lexington was present with up-to-
date color slides of the campus.

In the election of officers that
followed the meeting, the following
were named: Robert Hilton, ’38,
president; Stanley Hooker, ’39, first
vice-president; ‘Tom Morris, ’41,
second vice-president; Cliff Swan,
‘53, treasurer; and Joe Mendelsohn,
’52, secretary. Also, Jim Priest, ’43,
of Dayton, Ohio, who had come

“Meetings

down for the meeting, was named
to the board of directors.

In the business session Wersel
outlined the progress of the recruit-
ing program and the scholarship
committee. The newly elected pres-
ident, Bob Hilton, advised that
these facets of alumni work would
be diligently pursued in the next
year.

LOUISVILLE

The Louisville chapter had its
spring meeting and banquet at the
Tavern Club on Monday night,
May 21. President Ernie Clarke
presided and introduced the new
men from Louisville who are enter-
ing the University as freshmen in
September, 1962.

 

 

 

Bill Washburn was present with
up-to-date color slides of the Un1-
versity which were enjoyed by the
alumni and the new men as well.

A social hour preceded the ban-
quet, at which Washburn made re-
marks on the development of the
Alumni Fund.

Ww

At a meeting of the Kentucky
State Bar Association in Louisville
in April, the Washington and Lee
alumni entertained with a dinner
on Wednesday evening, April 25, at
the Pendennis Club. Dean Clayton
EK. Williams, retired dean of the law
school, was guest of honor and
speaker at the dinner.

An enthusiastic group of some 65
strong, including wives, were pres-
ent for this fine occasion. The din-
ner was organized by G. Oldham
Clarke, ’28, who also presided.

Also present and making remarks
to the assembled group was Morris
C. Montgomery, °30, Chief Justice
of the Kentucky Supreme Court.
Having just been named president-
elect of the Kentucky Bar Associa-
tion, William L. Wilson, ’35, of
Owensboro, Kentucky, also made
some remarks.

CHARLESTON

‘The Edgewood Country Club in
Charleston, W. Va., was the scene
for the spring meeting of the
Charleston alumni chapter on
Wednesday evening, May 23.

The outgoing president, Ruge
DeVan, ’34, presided at the dinner
meeting where Bill Washburn pre-
sented a movie of 1961 football
highlights. In the business session
which followed, the nominating
committee chairman, Judge Thorn-
ton Berry, presented the slate of
new ofhcers who were unanimously
elected. They are as follows:

Lee Kenna, ’40, president; Mark
Schaul, Jr., 53, vice-president; and
Ike Smith, °57, secretary-treasurer.

43

TRI STATES

A luncheon meeting of the Tri
States alumni chapter was held in
Huntington, W. Va., at the Hotel
Frederick on May 23.

Bill Washburn, executive secre-
tary from the central office, showed
color slides of the campus and made
a few remarks concerning the latest
developments at the University. Joe
Dingess, ’21, president of the chap-
ter, presided.

Plans for further meetings in the
late summer or early fall were dis-
cussed.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

The Army-Navy Country Club
was the site for the Washington
Alumni chapter dinner-dance meet-
ing on Saturday evening, May 19.
This annual affair was attended by
a large group of more than 100
alumni and wives who enjoyed the
elegant surroundings of the Army-
Navy Club and the splendid orches-
tra for the evening dance.

Julian Gillespie, 52, was re-elect-
ed president for the forthcoming
year.

Charles Wesley Lowry, ’26, who
has stated his candidacy for Con-
gress from the 1oth Virginia Dis-
trict, made a few remarks. Bill
Washburn, the executive secretary
from Lexington, was on hand and
brought the latest news from the
campus.

The chapter was pleased to have
John Schenkel, ’59, and John How-
ard, °57, both from the Baltimore
chapter, to attend the meeting.

RICHMOND

Washington and Lee Alumni of
the Richmond Chapter, at their
annual business meeting held in
the Auditorium of the Southern
Bank and Trust Company’s West-
hampton Office on Wednesday eve-
ning, June 20, elected the follow-
ing officers for the coming year:

President, Edward J. McCarty,
‘42; vice-president, Charles W.
(Buck) Pinnell, ’46; secretary, John
Franklin Kay, Jr., ’55; and treasur-
er, Walter John McGraw, ’5p>.

Retiring president, Reno S.
Harp, III, °54, thanked the alumni
for their help and support and
noted the progress of the associa-
tion in recent years.

NEW YORK

‘Two activities have met with
huge success in the New York Chap-
ter. One of the quarterly golf tour-
naments was held Friday, June 22,
at White Beaches Country Club in
Haworth, N. J. Several of the alum-
ni joined in this “sudden death”
tournament to show the result of
their spring practice.

On Saturday, June 23, the chap-
ter entertained with a picnic at
Emmett Poindexter’s “Sunlit Farm”’
in Putnam Valley, N. Y. A large
and enthusiastic crowd turned out
for the usual fried chicken treat.
There were badminton, horse-shoe
pitching and games for all ages.
Plans were discussed at this festive
occasion for the annual reception
late in August for the incoming
freshmen.

ST. LOUIS

The Captain’s Quarters of the
Clayton Club was the scene of the
St. Louis Chapter’s meeting on
June goth. After preliminary re-
freshments the meeting was devoted
largely to business where a report
for the previous year was made
from the outgoing president A. H.
“Hap” Hamel.

A general discussion developed
on the chapter plans for the forth-
coming year.

The
elected:

following officers were

President, Burr Miller, ’49; vice-
president, Fred Webber, ’56; secre-
tary, Warner Isaacs, °57; treasurer,
Hugh McNew, ’36.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

fei

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INCORPORATED

OPERATING STATEMENT

For the Year Ended June 30, 1962

|
|

OPERATING INCOME:
Class. Apene Ward sini oe iets Aadereeeds secs terete $ 72,522.07

DESIGNATED INCOME:

CTO WS er as Sp ect avin epi dceeb ence $ 1,320.00
University Gepartie yh ncn dee sie spec cnc sacs oteedetcteneenene 2,772.00
Gapital Gas Coarse he cceneeecesttseeet 187.56
IWateenG@ow ed cen larhe eee eee teests 50.00
JOUIMaNiom Suiidinie Pande 10.00 4,339.56

 

Ela MCU i ee ieee $ 76,861.63

OPERATING EXPENSES:

ORIQUTIGS foe el ee er $ 20,199.22
Amn Pune Expense 3c ae ee 2,897.29
BGICUNG oi a ae ee 352-93
Entertain’ eee ee 2,515.05
EQUIpMene foe eke eee a ee a 3139.78
PLOMIC CONN noi koe ae ee eee ee ey. 825.61
WEP OT ING lak oii ee spe ee 10,492.90
Miscellaneous, 2. ivscepoce bee alncsts acter. 1,250.22
OTICE: SUITS a esas wee hese e pe ae ne eee 1,388.04
POS AS iS 6 Rts bocce ae Week oy Nis open RU a oe 2,265.99
TReeWOGs iit 8 Cee i en 4,948.84
belephome- and: Leleeraghe i. oo Gece eee ee pee 174.52
ee a ee ae. 1,697.29

DESIGNATED INCOME TRANSFERRED TO
UNIVER GIT PREASURER 6 aoa chieseen 4,339-56

oe
©
-
Ss
—
2
O
oO
a)
pale)
-
puedo
oS
JQ
het
*
oO
O
i
N
O
bai
IB
vs
ver
9
nO
mt
nH
9

Peg
.

TAL) eG oe coca obsess hited et eset soda catbbegeeds nescacnsbessteeaeBaveres $ 53,661.19

Excess of Ineotm over Exmenditures.........:.0.c5.ccsctceckestiese delice ieleeecie $ 23,200.44

REVOLVING FUND, JUNE 30, 1962 (Cash advanced by
Duiversity: | PPessGier a Rk ish $ 230.12

NOTE:

~All items of income and expenditures in this statement were taken into the accounts of
the University Treasurer.

Seana eee rg pero ee

 

 

ORDER NOW

Hur that special Christmas gift

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

with crest in five colors

‘This chair is made from northern birch and rock maple—hand-rubbed

in black with gold trim (arms finished in cherry). A perfect gift for

Christmas, birthday, anniversary or wedding. A beautiful addition to

any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to
the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ‘14.

Mail your order to:
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia
Price: $29.00 f.o.b. Gardner, Massachusetts

Christmas orders must be received by November 26.

 

 

