DECEMBER 1970

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNUS

VOLUME 45 NUMBER 6 DECEMBER 1970

CONTENTS

1. Roger Mudd delivers ODK address.

4. Campus news.
—prepared by Robert S. Keefe

12. Ihe exploits of Steve Mahaffey.
15. A digest of the football season.
17. Alumni affairs.

20. Class notes.

COVER

Steve Mahaffey is a football anomaly. Unlike most hard-
nosed players, his lifestyle borders on the almost reckless
notion of irresponsibility as he wanders about day by
day looking for things not to do. In short, he distains hard
work. Yet during a football game, he does manage to get
down to business, and it turned out this year that he be-
came the nation’s leading pass catcher among thousands
of small college performers. For a complete interpreta-
tion, Steve Mahaffey’s story can be found beginning on
page 12.

EDITOR: William C. Washburn, ’40
MANAGING EDITOR: Romulus T. Weatherman

ASSOCIATE EDITOR AND PHOTOGRAPHER:
A. Michael Philipps, ’64

EDITORIAL ASSISTANT: Mrs. Joyce Carter

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC::
Charles F. Clarke, Jr., ’38, President

Emil L. Rassman, ’41, Vice-President

William C. Washburn, ’40, Secretary

Richard H. Turrell, 49, Treasurer

BOARD OF DIRECTORS: Upton Beall, ’51; Joe F.
Bear, ’33; Charles F. Clarke, Jr., 38; T. Hal Clarke, ’38;
A. Christian Compton, ’50; William H. Hillier, ’38;
S. L. Kopald, Jr., 43; Dr. J. Peter Muhlenberg, ’50; Ed-
ward H. Ould, ’29; Emil L. Rassman, ’41; Beauregard A.
Redmond, ’55; Richard H. Turrell, ’49.

Published in February, April, June, August, October, and
December by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms
3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage paid at
Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing privileges
at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

Roger Mudd closed his speech at the ODK tapping
ceremony (see article in this issue) with a true story. He
related:

“Recently in Loudoun County the Selma Plantation,
a country estate, went up for auction—contents, furniture,
house, the outbuildings, and the land. And a woman from
Fairfax drove out there on the first day that the plantation
was open and spotted hanging over the mantle in the
main hall an idealized, romantic painting of General Lee
on Traveller. ‘The opening bid on a little piece of paper
stuck in the frame was $60. She became excited about the
possibility of getting a Lee on Traveller, and that night
she went back to her home and told her husband about it.
He agreed that it would be a great acquisition—that Lee
on Traveller hanging over their mantle would be just the
thing. So she went back on the second day, but very
quickly the bidding went beyond her pocketbook. It sold
for about $150. That night she told her husband how dis-
appointed she had been and how great it would have been
to have had the painting. And toward the end of their
conversation, their 16-year-old son interrupted and said,
‘Mom, maybe I’m stupid, but who is Leon Traveller?’ ”’

Roger’s point in telling the story was that more change
has occurred in this country than anyone is perhaps pre-
pared to admit. His point was well made.

Beside his story we would like to place a quotation
from Lee himself, a quotation found in his papers after
his death:

“The forbearing use of power does not only form a
touchstone, but the manner in which an individual enjoys
certain advantages over others is a test of a true gentle-
man. ‘he power which the strong have over the weak, the
employer over the employed, the educated over the un-
lettered, the experienced over the confiding, even the
clever over the silly—the forebearing and inoffensive use
of all this power or authority, or a total abstinence from
it when the case admits, it will show the gentleman in a
plain light. The gentleman does not needlessly and un-
necessarily remind an offender of a wrong he may have
committed against him. He can not only forgive, he can
forget; and he strives for that nobleness of self and mild-
ness of character which impart sufficient strength to let the
past be but the past. A true man of honor feels humbled
himself when he cannot help humbling others.”

Our point is that no matter how much change takes
place there are still many good things from the past, in-
cluding Lee’s gentlemanly code, which are worth learning
and adopting because they are timeless.

   

|

 

 

 

~
eo)
‘

{

y
*

‘Mudd cites TV failures

in ODK tap day address

Roger Mudd, the CBS-TV report-
er, gave a Washington and Lee audi-
ence an insider’s view of televison in a
speech at the annual Omicron Delta
Kappa tapping ceremony in Lee Cha-
pel on Dec. 7. It was not a wholly fav-
orable view.

“It is now my belief after about 17
years in the newspaper and television
business that broadcasting, in sound
or vision, will not prove to have con-
tributed to the advancement of ideas
or the education of man as much as
the printed word,” he said.

Mudd, a 1950 graduate of W&L
and a classmate and fraternity brother
of President Huntley, was initiated
into ODK at W&L in 1966 as an hon-
orary member. He told of his disap-
pointment at not being tapped as an
undergraduate and wondered whether
the standards for recognizng Univer-
sity leadership had changed when so
much else had changed in college life.

“The standards of 20 years ago
conformed to what most of us then re-
garded as the plateaus of college life,”’
he said. “They seemed right for us
then, but I have wondered in recent
years whether there are other qualities
in men that also ought to be recogniz-
ed. Intellectual honesty and candor,
skepticism and _ integrity—these, it
seems to me, are the qualities most
lacking in our current public leaders.”

Twelve Washington and Lee stu-
dent leaders and five others—four of
them alumni—were inducted into the
honorary fraternity founded at Wash-
ington and Lee 55 years ago. (The
new members are listed in a separate
story.)

Mudd devoted part of his talk to
a discussion of Vice President Spiro T.
Agnew’s criticism of television news
reporting. Mudd ‘said:

‘What the Vice President, I think,
tried to do when he began speaking
in Des Moines and at subsequent en-
gagements was to take the circum-

stance of our modern technological
life and change it into a conspiracy
against Richard Nixon.

“The television corporations are
in Manhattan for the same reason
that most large U.S. corporations are
there. There are only three TV corp-
orations because the cost of covering,
with moving pictures, massive events
like the Arab-Israeli War, or the Viet-
nam War, an assassination, a nominat-
ing convention, or a national election
amounts to millions and millions of
dollars. Local stations . . . don’t have
the money to cover live each night the
Congress, the White House, and the
Pentagon. They are forced to rely on
the networks.

“Now the networks operate out of
New York, and they are commanded
and directed by people who live in
New York, and the frontier of change

 

PEATUREs 1

in America today is in that city. New
York is different from the rest of the
country—its thought, its expression,
and its emotions. . . . It is literally im-
possible to shock New Yorkers, or
Cornhuskers or Hoosiers who have
been in New York for some time. But
what they send out on the tube is
shocking and disturbing, at times, be-
cause New Yorkers really do not
realize how remote and out of touch
they are with the America beyond the
Alleghenies.

“It is simply a cultural breach of
enormous proportions. It is one of the
things that divide us, and it may take
50 years before we realize what has
happened. But when we do look back
I do not think that it can be con-
sidered a conspiracy against Richard
Nixon or against any president. .

“What the national media, and
mainly television, have done is to be-
lieve that their chief duty is to put
before the nation its unfinished busi-
ness—pollution, the Vietnam War, dis-
crimination, continuing violence,
slums. ‘The media simply by its report-

” " 3 ys ea 3
™ Aa? SOE

President Huntley and CBS correspondent Roger Mudd—roommates getting together again.

 

 

 

2: FEATURE

ing of these problems have become the
nation’s critics, and, as critics, no poli-
tical administration, regardless of how
hard it tries, will satisfy them.

But the New Yorkers who produce
the programs about our unfinished
business live in a city where pollution
is at its worst, where traffic is unbeliev-
able, where the slums are almost be-
yond comprehension, where life is al-
most unmanageable. Yet the programs
are seen each night by 20 to 30 mil-
lion Americans who live in the old
environment, who are not nearly so
disturbed by our modern life, whose
lives in fact have gotten better, whose
schools are better, whose food is bet-
ter, whose vacations are longer, who
are generally proud of what they have
made for themselves and of their
country.

“Basically that conflict was what
the Vice President was complaining
about, and politically he was trying to
convert the resentment of Middle
America, whose self-doubts were be-
ing fed by television, into a political
asset, and I think he succeeded.”’

In discussing the shortcomings of
television, Mudd said:

“The inherent limitations of our
media make it a powerful means of
communication, but also a crude one
which tends to strike at the emotions
rather than at the intellect. For tele-
vision journalists, this means a dan-
gerous and increasing concentration
on action which is usually violent and
bloody rather than on thought, on
happenings rather than issues, on
shock rather than explanation, on
personalities rather than ideas.

“Television has brought communi-
cation back, really, to its primitive ori-
gin. Communication began with pic-
tures and gestures, and only later the
word, and just 500 years ago the print-
ed word. Now, it seems to me, we have
come full circle. The bright hopes that
we all had for television forever elude
us. Even with the unbelievable techni-
cal improvements—the satellites, the
live-remotes, the moon transmissions—
the industry somehow is still unable or
unwilling now to move beyond its pre-
occupation with razzle-dazzle into a

preoccupation with substance. Our
broadcasts have not improved; if any-
thing, their quality has declined. The
tube has become a trip, a national
opiate, a baby-sitter who charges noth-
ing, something to iron by, to shave to,
and to doze over. And in the news de-
partments of the networks the first
question a producer asks a reporter is
not what’s in the piece, but how long
is it?

“The instant defense is that pic-
tures don’t lie. Well, you know and I
know that pictures do lie. The most
vivid picture can distort the reality it
appears to show unless it is combined
with inquiry or explanation. But too
often on television the issues are pre-
sented solely in terms of their immedi-
ate visible results. Why is there no
time to furnish explanation? First,
there is no desire because television
attracts very few explainers. The em-
phasis is on the face, the voice, the
body—not on the mind. And there is
no time for these explainers because
news broadcasts are only 30 minutes
long. The news must yield to the
prime-time schedule because all of us

in television have been taught since,

the day we were hired that this is an
entertainment business.

“Well, look what we have done.
We haven't really entertained—not if
you mean by entertainment “Truth or
Consequences,’ “The Newlywed Game,’
‘What’s My Line,’ ‘Green Acres,’
‘Adam 12,’ ‘Petticoat Junction.’ The
highest form of entertainment on tele-
vision is by default—the movie, for
which we can take absolutely no credit.

‘As for the news, we really haven’t
informed the nation about what is
happening to it. In fact, I would sug-
gest we are frequently the cause of
what’s happening to it. For all Vice
President Agnew’s crudities and his
attack on TV, we cannot ignore his
basic point that TV has helped spread
violence and extremist dissent. I am
convinced that President Nixon would
never have made folk heroes out of the
hard-hat demonstrators if the networks
had not first elevated the ROTC-build-
ing burners, the research-file destroy-
ers, and the non-negotiable demanders.

‘Television news has wrought pro-
found changes in our country’s atti-
tude toward war. The Vietnam con-
flict is, as network brass never tires of
saying, the first war covered by televi-
sion. The living-room war, it is called.
But the result has caused me to won-
der whether in the future a democracy
which has uncensored TV in every
home will ever be able to fight a war,
however moral or just. When people
are horrified by the same-day sights of
bloodshed and mutilation—the hall-
marks of all wars—they are not easily
convinced that a cause may also be at
stake. Ihe consequence may well be
that television will breed pacifism in
a democracy where the evidence of its
own military action can be tuned in
every night.

“I do not advocate that we do not
show dissent or war, but I do suggest
that we stop thinking and acting as if
television were an entertainment busi-
ness. It ceased to be that long ago. It
is a powerful medium and also a dan-
gerous one which in the last 20 years
has, almost unknowingly, produced
more changes in the American char-
acter than we are willing to admit. I
appeal for integrity, intelligence, and
responsibility on the part of televi-
sion’s proprietors and _ television’s
journalists so that the events that we
portray throughout the nation will be
subject to questioning and explana-
tion of a critical and challenging na-
ture.”

Following the recognition of pro-
fessor emeritus Rupert N. Latture,
one of three surviving founders of
Omicron Delta Kappa, Washington
and Lee’s Alpha Circle tapped the
following new members during a

special ceremony Dec. 7:

—Rt. Reverend Christoph Keller,
Jr., Washington and Lee class of 1939,
Bishop Episcopal Diocese of Arkansas,
Doctor of Divinity, Doctor of Sacred
Theology, member of the board of
trustees of Sweet Briar College, the
Kent School, and the University of
the South. Honorary. In abstentia.

 

 

that more than pleased the audience.

gram: ‘“Ihe Rube and Boomer Show.”

 

...nhere Ss Rube and Boomer

Roger Mudd arrived 40 minutes late for his ODK appearance. That could
have made for a lot of “dead air,” a no-no in television circles. But President
Huntley was equal to the moment and filled the gap with a series of anecdotes

He told how Roger’s Piedmont flight had been canceled, how Roger had
tried to call and was told by the operator that Washington and Lee could not
be reached by telephone (the telephone number had changed that morning), how
he and Roger had rowed together on the W&L crew team, and how Roger used
to feud with and mimic the coach (the “Mad Swede” was Roger’s name for him),
and how Roger was known as “Boomer” and how he was known as “Rube.”

Roger arrived (he had chartered a plane) just as Huntley was running out of
stories, and noted wryly: “I daresay you can realize the magnitude of the change
[at W&L] when I look over here at my former roommate and fraternity brother
and find that he is your president. As the Democrats are fond of saying of Mr.
Nixon, ‘Of course he is my President, too.’ Then Roger jumped in with a
story of his own about Huntley and the “Mad Swede.”

It was a great reunion for the two old classmates. It was great fun for the
audience. And if W&L ever goes into the TV business, it has a ready-made pro-

 

 

—Donald T. Regan, Harvard class
of 1940, president of Merrill, Lynch,
Pearce, Fenner, & Smith, Inc., former
vice president and governor of the In-
vestment Bankers Association of
America, trustee of Charles E. Merrill
Trust. Honorary. In abstentia.

—Omer L. Hirst, Washington and
Lee class of 1936, member of Virginia
House of Delegates (1954-59) and the
Virginia Senate (1964-present), trustee
of the Washington Center for Metro-
politan Studies, trustee of the Virginia
Foundation for Independent Colleges,
president of the Hirst Co., Annandale,
Va. Honorary.

—James A. Philpott, Washington
and Lee class of 1945, vice president of
the United Furniture Corp. of Lexing-
ton, N.C., past lieutenant governor of
a Kiwanis district, president of the
Lexington (N.C.) Boy Scout Council.
Honorary.

—Frank A. Parsons, Washington
and Lee class of 1954, assistant to the
president of Washington and Lee, co-
ordinator of immediate and long-range
University planning, supervisor of
Washington and Lee’s over-all pro-

gram of public relations and informa-
tion. Honorary.

Law students named to member-
ship were:

—Robin P. Hartmann of Arling-
ton, editor-in-chief of the University’s
Law Review, president of the Student
Bar Association, member of the moot
court team, president of his law class
during his first two years at Washing-
ton and Lee.

—H. William Walker, Jr. of Cin-
cinnati, editor of the Law Review dur-
ing the second semester, member of
the Student Bar Association’s board of
governors.

--Benjamin Atticus Williams of
Courtland, Va., chairman of the Uni-
versity’s Legal Research Program, gov-
ernor of the Student Bar Association,
Law Review staff member.

Undergraduates inducted
Omicron Delta Kappa included:

—Glenn M. Azuma of New Mil-
ford, N.J., junior representative to
the University’s student government,
leader in several action and study com-
mittees, Dean’s List student majoring
in English and philosophy.

into

PEATURESs 3

—Robert G. Brookby of Bartles-
ville, Okla., junior economics major,
Honor Roll and Dean’s List student,
counselor in the University’s freshman
dormitories, vice president of the com-
merce fraternity, treasurer of his social
fraternity, member of both the basket-
ball and baseball teams.

—Madison F. Cole of Newnan, Ga.,
president of Washington and Lee’s
Publications Board, chairman of CON-
TACT this year, editor-in-chief of the
yearbook last year, Honor Roll stu-
dent, American history major.

—Hugh F. Hill of Roanoke, major-
ing both in drama and in Washington
and Lee’s pre-medical program, presi-
dent of the Troubadours, program di-
rector for WLUR-FM, an Honor Roll
scholar.

—Stephen R. Haughney of Cleve-
land, Ohio, Honor Roll English major,
president of the “Free University” or-
ganization, member of the Student
Curriculum Committee, former staff
member of the campus newspaper and
the University’s scholarly literary
magazine.

—Andrew G. Kumpuris of Little
Rock, senior biology major, tri-captain
of Washington and Lee’s football
team, chairman of the Student Control
Committee, Honor Roll student, ac-
tive in a number of civic and social
organizations. ae

—John M. McCardell, Jr. of Hagers-
town, Md., majoring both in Ameri-
can history and English, editor-in-
chief of the Calyx, secretary of the
Publications Board, president of Circle
K, editor of the Interfraternity Coun-
cil’s rush book.

—Lawrence L. McConnell of At-
lanta, editor-in-chief of the Ring-tum
Phi, member of the Troubadours,
vice president of the Publications
Board, Dean’s List student majoring
in English.

—Stephen W. Robinson of Alex-
andria, chairman of the Student Re-
cruitment Committee, representative
on the faculty admissions committee,
vice president of his class, associate
justice of the Interfraternity Council,
junior taking two majors, in Latin and
in history.

eR SL eS ES Oe Re a Re

 

 

Ne

0 a

As CAMPUS

Rev. Thomas named rector
and two new Trustees elected

The Board of Trustees, at its meeting
on October 9, elected two new members,
chose a new rector, and named one mem-
ber to emeritus status.

The new members are Thomas C.
Frost, Jr., of San Antonio, Tex., and Isa-
dore M. Scott of Philadelphia, Pa. Both
were elected to six-year terms.

The new rector is the Rev. John New-
ton Thomas of Richmond, Va. He suc-
ceded Dr. Huston St. Clair of Surfside,
Fla., who had been rector for the past five
years. Dr. St. Clair remains a member of
the Board.

The trustee emeritus is Christopher T.
Chenery of New York City, who retired
from active service due to poor health.
He was first elected to the Board in 1950.

Frost is president of Frost National
Bank of San Antonio. He graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1950 and was vale-
dictorian of his class. Frost is currently
president of the Texas Bankers Associa-
tion and a past president of the San An-
tonio Clearing House Association. He is
the first chairman-comptroller of the
Currency Regional Advisory Committee
and a trustee of both the Southwest Re-
search Association and the University of
the Americans Foundation of Mexico.

Frost is also a trustee and vice chair-
man of the board of the Texas Military In-
stitute, a trustee of the San Antonio Medi-
cal Foundation and of the Foundation of
Full-Service Banks. He is treasurer of the

 

Trustee Thomas C. Frost, Jr.

Southwest Texas Methodist Hospital
Board and of the Texas Foundation of
Voluntarily Supported Colleges and Uni-
versities.

In addition, he holds directorships on
the board of the San Antonio United
Fund, the Farah Manufacturing Co. of
El Paso and San Antonio, the Handy Andy
Co., Inc. of San Antonio, the San Antonio
branch of the Federal Reserve Bank, and
the Association of Reserve City Bankers.
He has also served as chairman of the
Greater San Antonio Development Com-
mittee, vice president of the city’s United
Fund campaign, and director of the San
Antonio Chamber of Commerce and Boy
Scouts.

Scott was president of the Winner
Manufacturing Co. of Trenton, N. J.,
from 1947 until 1961, when the company
was sold. He received his LL.B. degree
from Washington and Lee in 1937. He is
a 1934 graduate of West Virginia Univer-
sity and also holds an M.A. in political
science from West Virginia.

Active in a wide range of civic groups,
Scott has been chairman of a citizens’
committee to study the financial needs of
the Philadelphia public schools; chairman
of the board of Tri-Institutional Facili-
ties, Inc., a joint medical complex built
for the Philadelphia General Hospital, the
Children’s Hospital, and the University
of Pennsylvania; a member of the board
of governors of the Pennsylvania Economy

 

Trustee Isadore M. Scott

League; president of the Philadelphia
Council for International Visitors; and a
director of Scientific American magazine.

Scott is a board member of Girard
Trust Bank, the Western Savings Fund
Society of Philadelphia, and the Lister
Institute. He is president of University
City Associates, a director of the Oil
Shale Corp., and chairman of the Star-
wood Corp. He heads the Old Christ
Church Preservation Trust and is vice
president of Abington Hospital.

Dr. Thomas, the new rector, is profes-
sor of systematic theology at the Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond. He
is a 1924 graduate of Washington and
Lee and holds the M.A. and Ph.D. de-
grees from Edinburgh University. He is
also a graduate of Union Theological
Seminary and was awarded an honorary
doctor of divinity degree in 1943 by
Hampden-Sydney College. He is also a
trustee of Mary Baldwin College and for-
mer pastor of the Second Presbyterian
Church in Richmond. He began teaching
at Union Theological Seminary in 1940.
Dr. Thomas has been a trustee of Wash-
ington and Lee since 1938 and is the
senior member of the Board.

Dr. St. Clair, the retiring rector, is a
1922 graduate of Washington and Lee. He
has been a trustee since 1943. His father,
George Walker St. Clair, was rector of
the Washington and Lee Board of Trus-
tees from 1928 until his death in 1939,
having been elected to the Board in 1901.
Dr. St. Clair has been a member of the
Board’s executive committee and was one
of two members of a special scholarship
selection committee. He was president of

 

Rector Rev. John Newton Thomas

=)

|

ate Me cle

i 1

sd
-
a
a
Lal
a
3
=
-
Eg
>

Trustee emeritus Christopher T. Chenery

the Virginia State Chamber of Commerce
between 1944 and 1946.

Chenery, a 1909 graduate of Washing-
ton and Lee, joins two other members who
currently hold emeritus status. The others
are Walter Andrew McDonald of Cin-
cinnati, who retired from active service
in 1961, and Homer Adams Holt of Char-
leston, W. Va., who retired in 1969. Chen-
ery is a former chairman of the board of
the Southern Natural Gas Co. and an
executive of several other utility interests.

In a resolution of appreciation, his
fellow trustees described Chenery as “a
leader of integrity, wisdom, and foresight.”
The resolution added: “Throughout the
62 years that have passed since he enrolled
as a student here, the University family has

 

looked with admiration and pride upon
his achievements as an engineer, indus-
trialist, sportsman, and good citizen of the
nation he loved.”

The Board now has 18 active members.
Besides Dr. Thomas, Dr. St. Clair, and the
two new members, Frost and Scott, they
are J. Stewart Buxton of Memphis, Tenn.;
Joseph L. Lanier of West Point, Ga.;
Judge John Minor Wisdom of New Or-
leans, La.; John F. Hendon of Birming-
ham, Ala.; Joseph E. Birnie of Atlanta,
Ga.; Lewis F. Powell, Jr., of Richmond,
Va.; Joseph T. Lykes, Jr., of New Or-
leans; John M. Stemmons of Dallas; Ross
L. Malone of New York City; Robert E.
R. Huntley, president of the University;
John W. Warner of Washington, D. C.;
E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr., of Newtown,
Pa.; Jonathan W. Warner of Tuscaloosa,
Ala.; and John L. Crist, Jr., of Charlotte,
N. C.

Chaffin scholarship

An endowed scholarship to be awarded
at Washington and Lee has been created
under terms of the will of William W.
Chaffin, the University’s debate coach
from 1960 to 1970.

His debaters had won more than 100
trophies at the time of his death last Feb.
22 in an automobile accident returning
from an invitational debate meet at Dart-
mouth College. Under his direction, Wash-
ington and Lee’s debate teams earned a
national reputation and participated in
most major invitational tournaments in
the East.

The new scholarship established in
Prof. Chaffin’s will is expected to be award-
ed for the first time in the coming year,
according to William A. Noell, Jr., di-
rector of student financial aid.

Noell said other contributions to the
University in memory of Chaffin, primarily
from former debaters, will be added to the
fund established in his will.

Election coverage

With a team of more than 40 experi-
enced reporters, broadcasters, and analysts,
WLUR-FM, the University’s student radio
Station, claimed the largest radio news-
gathering and reporting operation in Vir-
ginia during election night this past No-
vember.

The station had on-the-spot reporters
throughout the state, with two-man news
teams at the headquarters of the three

CAMPUS: 5

U.S. Senate candidates, at the headquar-
ters of the two 7th District Congressional
candidates, and at several locations in
Richmond, Lexington, Buena Vista, and
Rockbridge County.

And in one case, the station beat the
major networks by carrying a victory state-
ment from Sen. Harry F. Byrd, Jr. as soon
as he made it. .

At home base, WLUR’s studios in
Reid Hall on campus, were stationed a
score of analysts, as well as the anchor
team. Dr. William Buchanan, a highly
regarded expert in American electoral
politics (an analyst for ABC in 1968) and
professor of politics at the University, was
available for his special perspective.

In addition to the coverage provided
by WLUR’s field reporters, the station
broadcast Associated Press news through-
out the night. The broadcast was carried
simultaneously for most of the evening
over Lexington’s AM _ station, WREL,
which preferred to rely on the Washington
and Lee staff for local and Virginia re-
turns rather than its own network, ABC.

Professor Ronald H. MacDonald of
Washington and Lee’s department of
journalism and communications, advisor
to WLUR, and station manager Hugh
Hill of Roanoke and news director Rich
Murray of Valatie, N.Y. coordinated the
election reporting effort.

Stewart recorded

A new musical composition by Pro-
fessor Robert Stewart, head of the music
division in the fine arts department, has
been recorded by the Iowa String Quartet.

The piece, “String Quartet Three,” is
released by Composers Recording, Inc.
(No. SD-256).

The Iowa String Quartet has perform-
ed the composition in both the United
States and Europe. The new record will
be available in Washington and Lee’s
bookstore.

Two other compositions by Stewart
were recorded previously—““Three Pieces
for Brass Quintet” and “Music For Brass,
Number Four.” Those two compositions
are being broadcast this season by Radio
Fusion France.

In addition, the Manhattan Brass Per-
cussion Ensemble plans to perform Ste-
wart’s “Hydra Three,” written for 15
brass, six percussion instruments, and a
piano, this season.

Stewart, a member of Washington and
Lee’s faculty since 1964, holds three mas-

 

 

6: CAMPUS

ter’s degrees in music—one each in music
education, violin, and composition—from
the American Conservatory in Chicago.

His compositions have been performed
by some of the leading groups in the
United States, including the Atlanta Sym-
phony Orchestra, and both the New York
and the American Brass Quintets. He has
also received a number of awards and
commissions, and for the last three years
was president of the Southeastern Com-
posers League.

Faculty actions

Authority to determine and enforce
regulations dealing with dates in Wash-
ington and Lee’s residential fraternity
houses has been given jointly to the In-
terfraternity Council and the Student Af-
fairs Committee as a result of faculty ac-
tion in November.

Previously, regulations were voted by
the faculty itself. Under the new arrange-
ment, the Interfraternity Council’s judicial
board will establish broad guidelines for
visits in fraternity houses by dates and
will then approve or reject proposals for
parietal hours submitted by each frater-
nity.

The Student Affairs Committee, com-
posed of half students and half faculty and
administrators at the University, will then
review the Interfraternity Council’s ac-
tion on individual fraternity regulations.

The judicial board will have primary
responsibility for judging violations of
those rules, with the Student Affairs Com-
mittee retaining review power.

Under guidelines already determined
by the Interfraternity Council, a 75 per
cent vote of the members in an individual
fraternity house would be required before
a set of proposed rules would be consider-
ed for approval.

The new procedure for regulating the
hours for visits in fraternity houses by
women grew out of a rejection by the
faculty that it permit the Council
alone to determine parietal hours, sub-
ject to review by no other university
agency.

In other action at its November meet-
ing, the faculty approved a recommenda-
tion by the courses and degrees commit-
tee to permit Washington and Lee’s stu-
dent government to appoint a student rep-
resentative on the committee, with full
membership and voting privileges.

The courses and degrees committee is
the faculty agency charged with develop-

ment, supervision, and evaluation of poli-
cies, subject to faculty approval, concern-
ing individual courses of study, curricula,
academic standards, and degree require-
ments. It normally meets once each week.

The decision to add a voting student
member to the committee was initiated
by the committee itself, and did not come
in response to student petitions or re-
quests.

Approval of the measure was attribut-
ed to the committee’s belief that it is
useful to have student opinion represent-
ed on the committee, which consists of
the deans of the College (of Arts and
Sciences) and of the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics, and of six elected
faculty members.

Students already serve as members on
a wide variety of other faculty committees,
including the faculty executive committee.

The Student Control Committee, one
of Washington and Lee’s two disciplinary
groups, is composed entirely of students.

Students also serve on University com-
mittees concerned with intercollegiate ath-
letics, the library, and officially sponsored
lectures.

In addition, student leaders have been
permitted the privilege of the floor at
meetings of the faculty and the board of
trustees by recent custom at Washington
and Lee.

The faculty also approved creation of
two new courses in art museum methods,
both involving apprenticeship at the Vir-
ginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond,
emphasizing intensive and personal train-
ing. Both the new courses will be offered
during Washington and Lee’s six-week
short term in the spring.

The faculty reaffirmed its ruling that
seniors who expect to graduate in June
each year must remain enrolled in the Uni-
versity during. the spring “mini-semester,”
even if they have completed all their other
formal degree requirements before that
term begins.

More scholarships

Two endowed scholarships, both to
be awarded for the first time in the next
academic year, have been established at
the University.

A $15,000 gift from Dr. and Mrs. Mer-
ton E. Carver of Richmond has established
the David C. Montgomery Memorial
Scholarship. Mrs. Carver’s son, Mr. Mont-
gomery, was a 1963 graduate of Washing-
ton and Lee who died March 19 in an ac-

cident. At the time of his death, he was
assistant vice president of the Mercantile
Safe Deposit & Trust Co. of Baltimore.

The second new endowed scholarship
was established by Charles S. Gay of New
York City, a 1957 Washington and Lee
alumnus, in memory of his grandfather,
the late Charles R. Gay, president of the
New York Stock Exchange from 1935 to
1938. Mr. Gay, a member of the board of
governors of the exchange from 1923 until
assuming its presidency, died in 1946.

Both new scholarships are unrestricted,
and will be awarded by University officials
to deserving students on the basis of
academic achievement, character, and
need,

Ad infinitum

An Englishman is going to send Wash-
ington and Lee a check for $10 each year
on January 19, the birthday of Robert E.
Lee.

David A. H. Cleggett of Maidstone,
Kent, informed the University of the ar-
rangement in a letter received here in
November. ‘“‘I wish it could be more,” he
wrote, “but at the present time it is all
that can be spared.” He also said he and
his wife have a bedroom available, with-
out charge, for any Washington and Lee
student who wishes to spend his summer
holiday in England. Their home is only
35 miles from London.

Mr. and Mrs. Cleggett and their son,
James, visited the Washington and Lee
campus last August and laid flowers at
the Recumbent Statue of Lee in a private
ceremony in Lee Chapel. Mr. Cleggett
has a singular interest in Virginia history
and especially in Robert E. Lee, an inter-
est he has been developing since his school
days.

The Cleggetts had planned to visit the
United States in October and attend the
official ceremony in Lee Chapel on Octo-
ber 10, commemorating the 100th anni-
versary of Lee’s death and of the change
in the title of Washington College to
Washington and Lee University. But he
had to move his visit up two months.

He arranged for his annual gift to the
University after receiving the texts of the
remarks made at the centennial ceremony
here together with a folder on Lee’s con-
tributions to the University which is be-
ing used in this year’s annual giving pro-
gram. The material was sent to him by
Frank A. Parsons, assistant to President
Huntley.

 

City fathers

Q: How do you learn first-hand to run
a city, making all the decisions and accept-
ing all their consequences, without having
a real, live one to use as your guinea pig?

A: You program a computer to act as
your “city,” that’s how. You arrange for it
to include all the variables, the paradoxes,
the frustrations you’d find in actual muni-
cipal government...

You arrange for it to include planning
and zoning departments, city and county
councils, school boards, and all the other
formal agencies of government — each
with its own particular aims and _ proce-
dures, necessarily working and cooperating
with every other agency and yet competing
against them...

You include slums, because they really
do exist, and then you have to do some-
thing about your citizens’ flight from
them, and the tax drain they create, and
all the while keeping your city’s other
priorities in mind...

You program into your computer high-
way and transit problems, because what
city doesn’t have them, and then you try
to solve them, or at least keep them from
becoming worse, or else your party will be
voted out of office, and yet you simply
don’t have the resources you need .. .

You include unemployment, another
fact of real life, and at the same time you
have to include jobs begging in area in-
dustry and commerce, because that exists,
too, and somehow you have to reconcile
i

You know city people want more
parks, and better highways, and new
schools, and so you have to include those
factors, too...

You take into account new areas deve-
loping all the time, because generally
they do develop in a real city, and cer-
tainly now the city has to attract new in-
dustry and business to accommodate your
new Citizens, and vice-versa; and yet you
know the established residents don’t want
their town becoming an ugly, noisy, dirty,
teeming mini-Megalopolis . . .

And with all that (and more), of
cours€ you program your computer to in-
clude the nitty and the gritty—a budget.
If it’s going to be realistic, it’s going to
be smaller than any of your agencies’
needs, and. larger than what your citizens
like. Now you have to worry about tax
rates and bond issues; you have to wonder
if you're going to drive industry away and
how you'll finance your welfare depart-

 

ment if you do; you have to decide who’s
going to carry the extra load if you give in-
dustry a tax break to attract it or keep
ee

So there you are. You have a computer
city, and now you have to begin thinking
in terms of sewer connections, pupil-teach-
er ratios, curbs and esplanades, rehabilita-
tion vs. demolition, residential or light
industrial, raises for your workers, rents,
buying in your city to stimulate the econ-
omy in which you operate as against buy-
ing elsewhere and paying less for the mer-
chandise, and so on, and so on, and...

And you have to learn to persuade the
people whose help and cooperation — and
whose money — you need to carry through
with your plans. And you learn to make
deals with them, and to coerce them, and
even (worst of all) to alter your own de-
signs to fit theirs’...

* * *

They've done all that at Washington
and Lee. It’s an interdepartmental pro-
ject in the School of Commerce, Econo-
mics, and Politics (with a bit of participa-
tion from sociology from the College).
Students were the city. It was an intensely
educational experience for them (and for
their teachers), and they loved it.

An educational enterprise called ‘‘En-
virometrics” provided the basic computer
program — a structural design of sorts —

— a

    

ss

~~

*

   

 

3

CAMPUS: 7

for the University’s IBM 1130. Enviro-
metrics calls it a game, but it’s absolutely
serious.

“City 1” is the name of the game, and,
technically speaking, it’s described as an
urban simulation system. It cost more
than $100,000 to produce. The federal Of-
fice of Education paid most. The theory
was that it would prove invaluable to real
city planners, giving them a chance to
try out their ideas on a hypothetical city,
one which duplicated almost precisely the
conditions and problems (political, social,
economic) that would come up in the real
thing — but where their errors would hurt
hardly at all.

It worked. So well that now new and
even more sophisticated cities have been
designed for computers. And the idea is
being shared with others.

Washington and Lee is among the
very first colleges in the nation to adopt
“City 1.’”” Co-supervised by Drs. William
Buchanan and John DeVogt, heads re-
spectively of the politics and administra-
tion departments, it generated some extra-
ordinary enthusiasm among the 70 or so
students who participated — the politi-
cians, the entrepreneurs, the civil admini-
strators, the managers of the city.

It took a while for them to develop
the knack of it. Decisions had to be coded
into special computer language, and the

  
 

=: 3

vee

 

Students and professors joined to run computer city experiment.

 

33 CAMPUS

1130 threw back any would-be decisions or
policies when all the other people and
agencies involved hadn’t given an explicit
okay. (Exactly as in a real city. After all,
you can’t very well widen a road if you
haven’t bought the land, or build a sky-
scraper without a zoning change.)

The students benefited considerably.
By the third or fourth round (a computer
round equals a year in the life of the city),
they had become pretty expert in meeting
all the requirements programmed into the
1130 — that is, all the requirements they'd
have to meet if they were dealing with
the real thing.

Businessmen’s profit-loss statements be-
gan looking better, once the students took
their formal learning and put themselves
in situations where they had to use it, not
merely know it ... once they began, for
example, to analyze investment-return and
interest rates the way they’d have to if they
were really in business.

New parks were built. Taxes were kept
more or less under control, if not quite
stable. New areas were developed, and
schools and roads and power lines and all
the other city services were brought in,
once students learned what “economically
practical” means in government and how
to deal that way.

There were elections. There were na-
tural disasters which inflicted property
damage in patterns that were designed to
be random. Scandal touched the govern-
ment. Interest groups pressured civic
agencies (students pressured other stu-
dents) constantly for favors.

As the game progressed, students began
realizing just how complex it all is, especi-
ally how much influencing and even pol-
icy-making occurs outside the formal struc-
ture. No less than in real life, politics in
“City 1” made for some strange, strange
bedfellows. Students began seeing the pos-
sibilities for shady deals that probably
wouldn’t be caught by anybody else, and
as members of the government they liter-
ally agonized over the choice between easy
private gain at public expense on the one
hand and the notions of responsibility and
integrity on the other.

True politicians, they began seeing
that they’d look pretty good to the voters
next election if they improved city serv-
ices and kept taxes down, if the “little
man” in the city saw that he was finally
getting a break from government. And be-
fore too long, pragmatic considerations
were entering into decision-making at least
as much as theories and ideologies. (Just

as in the real thing, to repeat a point.)

And for everything accomplished or
not accomplished, there were costs — eco-
nomic, social, political, usually all three.

Students learned to pay the price and
still come out ahead. They learned to bal-
ance needs and wishes against practical
possibilities.

They learned with none of the danger
in experimenting on the actual thing. And
they learned a lot more effectively than
if they had simply read textbooks and
listened to lectures and looked at charts.

They learned, in short, what goes into
running a real, live city.

$1,000 gift

The Reader’s Digest Foundation has
made a gift of $1,000 to Washington and
Lee’s department of journalism and com-
munications to assist students and faculty
with travel expenses while on reporting
assignments.

Announcement of the gift was made
by Professor Paxton Davis, head of the
department. Similar grants from the
foundation have been made to Washing-
ton and Lee each year since 1963.

Davis said the gift will be used for
student expenses in reporting, broadcast-
ing, and other journalism courses at Wash-
ington and Lee in a wide range of assign-
ments.

Journalism students this year will tra-
vel to cover political activity in Richmond
and in Washington, D.C., and Washington
and Lee’s away basketball games, which
are broadcast on WLUR-FM, the Univer-
sity’s student-operated radio station. Part
of the gift was used to defray expenses in-
curred in covering the 1970 elections and
W&L’s away football games this fall.

DeVogt elected

Dr. John F. DeVogt, associate professor
of commerce, has been elected to the
board of directors of the Southern Man-
agement Association.

DeVogt, secretary-treasurer of the as-
sociation since 1966, was named to the
board at the organization’s annual con-
vention in late November.

The Southern Management Associa-
tion, a division of the Academy of Man-
agement, has approximately 250 mem-
bers representing teachers in all the major
colleges and universities in the South and
Southwest.

DeVogt is head of Washington and

Lee’s department of business administra-
tion. He joined the University’s faculty
in 1962, and received his Ph.D. degree
from the University of North Carolina in
1966.

POW concern

Washington and Lee’s Republican
Club has joined the American Red Cross
campaign to secure better treatment for
American prisoners of war in North Viet-
nam and their eventual release.

The group is circulating individual
letters to be signed by Washington and
Lee students, appealing for the uncondi-
tional release of all war captives and, even
before that, for the release of prisoners’
names and better care, treatment, and
facilities.

The signed letters will be sent to North
Vietnam’s president, according to the Re-
publican Club leadership.

The campus organization’s drive grew
out of a resolution of support unani-
mously endorsed at its October general
meeting.

Harvey heads PAC

Eldon P. Harvey, Sr. of El Paso, Tex.
has been elected president of the 1971-72
Parents’ Advisory Council, succeeding
Dr. Frank Kumpuris of Little Rock, Ark.

Harvey’s election came in late Octo-
ber, during Washington and Lee’s 16th
annual Parents’ Weekend that featured a
13-0 football win over College Athletic
Conference rival Sewanee, talks to par-
ents from members of the University’s ad-
ministration and student body leaders,
campus tours, a “mixed media’ presenta-
tion by W&L’s Glee Club, John A. Gra-
ham Brass Choir, and the Troubadours,
and other social events.

More than 1,000 parents were expected
to attend the annual event, but inclement
weather cut that number by more than
half.

Harvey is a cattle and sheep rancher,
and he is connected with the Harvey In-
vestment Co. His son, Eldon P. Harvey,
Jr. is a junior at Washington and Lee.

Commager visits

America’s colleges and universities are
in a state of so-called ‘‘crisis” largely be-
cause of ever-increasing demands from
students and from society as a whole that
they perform impossible and “irrelevant”

.o

©.

od ‘ Ge
ae cee
Oy ae uh

i ne Ph»

: a e a

por 2

~ oe

» 4) Z res ha
: -*y Ye :
mes ee

Pe RY 3

 

Historian Commager meets the press in an afternoon interview.

tasks, Dr. Henry Steele Commager de-
clared in a lecture at Washington and
Lee early in November.

The eminent American historian told
an audience of 600 in the University’s Lee
Chapel that the problem of irreconcilable
demands from outside the academic com-
munity on the one hand is aggravated by
internal confusion and turmoil on the
other hand.

“Colleges do not know what they are,
or what they should be,” Dr. Commager
declared. As preparation in lower levels of
education becomes less and less thorough,
colleges necessarily spend more and more
time ‘teaching high-school mathematics

and high-school reading’”— while at the
same time the need for experts of enor-
mous skill and highly sophisticated educa-
tion becomes more and more crucial.

During his visit to Washington and
Lee, he lashed out at the Nixon Admini-
stration’s foreign and domestic policies
(“insane’’), as well as at Vice President
Spiro Agnew and Martha Mitchell (both
present nothing but “insanely irrelevant”
arguments).

In a number of wide-ranging com-
mentaries on political and educational
problems, and the relations between them,
he pointed to the irony that hardhats,
whom he called anti-intellectual intellec-

CAMPUS: 9

tuals, proclaim their disgust for colleges
and college kids, while at the same time
wanting nothing more badly than for their
own children to graduate from college. He
termed it “schizophrenia.”

The sprightly 68-year-old professor of
American history at Amherst College spent
the afternoon of Nov. 5 talking informally
with Washington and Lee students on
campus and in seminars.

In his lecture that night, he said the
crisis in education is hardly limited to
American colleges and universities, but in
this country it uniquely reflects the pecu-
liar problems facing both the nation and
its students.

He gently chided students who present
colleges with demands in areas where the
academic community has no control what-
ever. ‘““Nor is it the business of colleges
and universities,” Dr. Commager con-
tinued, ‘‘to involve themselves with the
transitory problems of society. The uni-
versity is not the government; it is not the
press; it is not a great corporation.”

Rather, he declared, the university’s
sole job is “to push outward the bound-
aries of knowledge.” Individuals in the
universities as elsewhere are obliged to
become “involved,” he said, but the in-
stitutions themselves are obliged not to.

The solution to the political part of
the problem, according to Dr. Commager,
is “not to give up on government—for that
is to give up on democracy—but rather to
educate the government and society.” Col-
leges have been remiss in this, he said, and
unless they begin the task seriously, greater
crises loom ahead.

Dr. Commager’s lecture was the inaug-
ural address in CONTACT, an annual
student-organized and financed symposium
at Washington and Lee.

Johnson honored

Dr. Lewis K. Johnson, professor of ad-
ministration, is among those to whom a
textbook on agricultural marketing is
dedicated. One of the authors is Dr. Ho-
ward L. Steele, a 1950 graduate of W&L,
a former student of Dr. Johnson’s, and
now associate professor of agricultural
marketing at Ohio State University.

The book, Agricultural Marketing
(Comerctalizacao Agricola), will be pub-
lished in January. The original edition
will be in Portuguese since it is directed
at Brazilian marketing students and lead-
ers interested in improving the efficiency
of agricultural marketing institutions in

 

 

10: CAMPUS

Brazil. The book, in both its Portuguese
and English editions, is also designed to
help students of marketing and economic
development around the world.

The dedication reads: ‘““The authors
dedicate this book to their mothers and
fathers whose hope, encouragement, and
help at all times can never be repaid, and
to Dr. Lewis K. Johnson, professor of ad-
ministration, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, whose example as a teacher and
counselor is admired by so many but
emulated by too few.”

Dr. Steele spent two years at the Uni-
versity of San Paulo in Brazil, setting up
a marketing curriculum and _ teaching
marketing courses, and recently carried
out consulting assignments in Brazil and
‘Taiwan.

Dr. Johnson has been a member of the
W&L faculty since 1933 and was head of
the commerce department from 1950 to
1968. He is author of a widely used text-
book published in 1957, Sales and Market-
ing Management.

Museum course

Once upon a time, “art appreciation”
was strictly for the ladies. Slightly kinky
girls were the only ones who majored in it
at college, then they became Bohemians or
beatniks. Middle-aged matrons sometimes
discussed art at afternoon club meetings.
And above all, art museums were stuffy,
stuffy, stuffy.

Not so any longer. The experts say
there is an art revolution underway, and
the people behind it don’t fit any of the
old cartoon stereotypes.

Last year, for example, more people
went to New York’s Metropolitan Museum
of Art than to all the Mets, Jets, Nets,
Knicks, and Rangers games put together.

This year, new public and university-
sponsored art museums are opening at
the rate of one every week.

“Happily,” says Dr. Gerard Maurice
Doyon, head of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity’s art department, “Americans are
beginning to become aware of their cul-
tural heritage.”

But buildings and paintings and sculp-
ture and even money do not a good
museum make. One critical need is for
professionals to direct museum operations,
people with carefully refined and devel-
oped skills, extraordinary imagination,
and masterful administrative abilities.

And there aren’t enough of them to go
around,

At Washington and Lee, as elsewhere,
interest in art has grown at an astonishing
rate. In the basic art appreciation courses,
there are about twice as many students en-
rolled now as there were five years ago. In
the advanced courses, there are up to five
times as many. A fifth of the student body
is enrolled in one art course or another at
any given moment.

And so the programs are expanding,
too. One of the most interesting, devel-
oped at the University by Doyon, is de-
signed to accommodate the new intensive
interest in art with the need for new
museum managers—“museumologists,” as
they are called professionally.

Beginning this spring, Washington and
Lee art majors will be eligible to apply
for the first of two unique new courses in
museum methods and apprenticeship, be-
ing offered by the University with the co-
operation of the Virginia Museum of Fine
Arts in Richmond.

The new courses are designed to pro-
vide students with a basic understanding
of museum management through full-time,
on-the-job training—and, hopefully, to pro-
vide some of them with the incentive to
continue on to graduate study in the field.

Students accepted into the highly selec-
tive courses will spend the entire six-week

spring term working with William Gaines,
the Virginia Museum’s program director,
as professional museum administrators.
Gaines and Doyon will jointly supervise
and evaluate their work.

The first course, museum methods, is
a prerequisite even for applying to under-
take the formal apprenticeship. Only one
student—the cream of the crop from the
first course—will be admitted to the sec-
ond course each year.

Doyon, who joined Washington and
Lee’s faculty in 1968, set up similar ap-
prenticeship programs at Florida Atlantic
University when he was chairman of the
art department there. They were highly
successful, and almost half the students
who participated eventually took up ca-
reers in art museum work.

At Washington and Lee, the course
requirements will be stiff. Students will
have to be on the Dean’s List, and have
12 credits in ancient or modern foreign
languages to be eligible even for an in-
terview. The new programs are designed
to provide a handful of highly motivated,
capable students; not a lot of casually
curious ones.

Students in the museum courses will
have one day a week off (Mondays), and
they’ll work without pay (their reward will

 

Art department chairman Dr. Doyon—a new course to make museums less stuffy.

 

 

 

be six credits toward graduation, the
maximum that can be earned during
Washington and Lee’s short spring term).
When the boss has to work overtime, pre-
paring a new program, for instance, so
will the students.

Later in the six-week period, they will
be given charge of new, challenging pro-
jects at the Virginia Museum. According
to Doyon, each student “will be considered
a professional, and in turn will be expect-
ed to conduct himself as one.”

“It is a remarkably complex field,”
Doyon says. “Most laymen don’t realize it.
Museums aren’t simply places where you
see stuffed birds. They’re dynamic. They
are becoming centers for civic cultural
life, as well as community education. And
museums are seriously short of people with
the ideas and the professionalism to help
them fill these new roles.”

The new courses will acquaint students
with methods in acquisition, preservation,
exhibiting, cataloguing, and general mu-
seum administration, to be sure.

But with museums becoming less stuffy
every day, the courses will also aim to
spark the student’s imagination, to help
him develop ideas on how museums can
be more exciting, more vital, more instruc-
tive, and more interesting.

Who’‘s who

Six law students and 18 seniors in the
undergraduate schools at Washington and
Lee have been selected to appear in the
1970-71 edition of Who’s Who Among Stu-
dents at American Colleges and Universt-
ties.

The 24 students whose biographies will
appear in the publication were nominated
by the student government on the basis of
outstanding achievement in academic

_ work, extracurricular activity, and service

to the community.

The law students named to Who’s Who
include:

—Robin Philips Hartman of Arlington,
Va., editor of the University’s Law Review,
president of the Student Bar Association,
and president of his class his first two years
in law school.

—Albert Marcellus Orgain, IV of Rich-
mond, president of the senior law class,
publication editor of the Law Review,
and a member of the Student Bar As-
sociation and the legal research program.

—Beverly Creighton Read of Falls
Church, Va., who served as president of
the Student Bar Association and captain

of the law school’s championship Burks
Moot Court team.

—Philip Clinton Thompson of Short
Hills, N.J., vice president of Washington
and Lee’s student body, active in the Law
Review, the legal research program, and
the Student Bar Association.

—Harold William Walker, Jr. of Cin-
cinnati, Ohio, a member of the Law Re-
view staff, the board of governors of the
Student Bar Association, and the Burks
Moot Court team.

—Benjamin Atticus Williams of Court-
land, Va., chairman of the legal research
program, and a member of the board of
governors of the Student Bar Association
and of the Law Review staff.

Seniors in Washington and Lee’s un-
dergraduate schools selected for Who’s
Who include:

—William Edward Brumback of Balti-
more, Md., captain of the swimming team,
twice an All-America freestyler, an All-
America lacrosse player, and a Dean’s List
psychology major.

—Arthur Franklin Cleveland of Spar-
tanburg, S.C., a Robert E. Lee Research
Scholar, Honor Roll student, social fra-
ternity officer, and member of the Student
War Memorial Scholarship Fund Commit-
tee, majoring in chemistry.

—Madison Filmore Cole, Jr. of New-
nan, Ga., an Honor Roll student majoring
in history, president of the University’s
Publications Board, chairman of its stu-
dent-sponsored intellectual symposium
CONTACT this year, and editor of the
yearbook last year.

—Pleas Blair Rogers Geyer of Berwyn,
Pa., a member of Phi Eta Sigma, an honor-
ary society for students of exceptional aca-
demic distinction.

—Douglas Kerr Gossmann of Louisville,
Ky., president of the Interfraternity Coun-
cil, a member of the football team, the
Student Affairs Committee, and the Var-
sity Club, majoring in English.

—Henry Averill Harkey of Charlotte,
N.C., a Dean’s List sociology major who
is a freshman dormitory counselor, and
former chairman of the Cold Check Com-
mittee.

—Charles Frederick Harris, Jr. of
Worcester, Mass., president of Sigma
Delta Chi journalism society, chairman of
the Student Library Committee, a re-
porter for the Richmond (Va.) Times-
Dispatch, and a Dean’s List journalism
major.

—Stephen Robert Haughney of Cleve-
land, Ohio, a member of Phi Beta Kappa,

CAMPUS: 11

the Student Curriculum Committee, the
CONTACT symposium committee, and a
staff member of both the student news-
paper and Shenandoah, the University’s
literary quarterly.

—Hugh Francis Hill, III of Roanoke,
program director of WLUR-FM, the Uni-
versity’s student-operated radio station,
president of the Troubadours, Washing-
ton and Lee’s dramatic troupe, and a
member of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary
pre-medical fraternity.

—Andrew George Kumpuris of Little
Rock, Ark., tri-captain of the football
team, chairman of the Student Control
Committee, and vice chairman of the
CONTACT symposium.

—Francis McQuaid Lawrence of Lake-
land, Fla., president of the student body
and a member of the Student Service Soc-
iety.

—John Malcolm McCardell of Hagers-
town, Md., an Honor Roll student major-
ing in American history and English, edi-
tor this year of the yearbook, a dormitory
counselor, and secretary of the Publica-
tions Board.

—Lawrence Lee McConnell of Atlanta,
Ga., editor-in-chief of the Ring-tum Phi,
Washington and Lee’s student newspaper,
vice president of the Publications Board,
and a Dean’s List English major.

—Richard James Murray of Valatie,
N.Y., secretary of the student body, news
director of WLUR-FM, and a member of
Sigma Delta Chi.

—Henry Nottberg, III of Shawnee Mis-
sion, Kan., president of the Dance Board,
a member of the Interfraternity Council,
the Student Service Society, and an Honor
Roll politics major.

—Edwin Staman Ogilvie of Shreveport,
La., tri-captain of the football team, a
member of the student government and of
Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leader-
ship fraternity, and an Honor Roll busi-
ness major.

—Joseph Buford Tompkins of Vinton,
Va., a member of Phi Beta Kappa and
Omicron Delta Kappa, a four-year mem-
ber of the student government, assistant
head dormitory counselor, and an Honor
Roll politics major.

—Rufus Timothy Wright of Beaumont,
Tex., a member of Omicron Delta Kappa,
a member of Washington and Lee’s debate
team who has won several awards, includ-
ing best speaker among 140 debaters from
43 colleges at the Ohio State National In-
vitational tournament last winter, and a
Dean’s List English major.

|

 

 

ORDER NIK

Dac gene RR LRN MOTE

12: ATHLETICS

Without trying harder,
Mahaffey makes No. 1

It must be said that Steve Mahaffey,
the nation’s No. 1 pass catcher this fall.
never was your Classic example of an All-
American football hero. Like the kind
that go to bed early, the ones who lead a
clean life, the hard workers, and some-
times the ones who make the academic
teams. No, Mahaffey never was the Spar-
tan type.

Mahaffey was the guy who, on a good
day and if things were going right, could
waste 10, maybe 12 hours with no trouble
at all. Mahaffey’s idea of a good day be-
gan somewhere around noon—after a long
night’s sleep—and one that included about
30 or 40 trips to the Co-op, a couple of
visits to the PR office to check his latest
press clippings, a flick or two, and, finally,

 

With nothing better to do, Mahaffey either went to the Co-op or out to catch a pass or 74.

re

a topping-off run to Hollins or Mary
Baldwin.

Classes were the least of his worries,
and his preoccupation with learning was
limited only to graduating in December
(he did) so he could get out in the world
and make money selling securities. As he
walked along the Colonnade on his way to
history or religion, he would ponder the
benefits of a gray classroom as opposed to
earning some cash back in Columbus,
Ohio, and, suddenly, in a moment of fiscal
rationale, he would veer off course, nar-
rowly avoiding the bell to call him into a
lecture that had nothing to do with his
capitalistic plans.

Fittingly, Mahaffey was one of the all-
time great talkers, one of the past mas-
ters at holding court with banter and tale.
“Want to see me, huh?” he would ask,
hoping to corner yet another unsuspect-
ing soul for an hour’s worth of chatter.
“Well, meet me at the Co-op in 10 min-
utes. I’ll be there. You can count on it.”

Such was Mahaffey’s demeanor. Loose.
Never taking anything too seriously. Re-
laxed. Calm. No hard stuff. Which is the
way he took football. About three each
afternoon, settled in one of the many
booths that dot the side of Washington
and Lee’s snack bar, split end Mahaffey
would sit there with his sidekick and foil,
flanker Bruce Green, playing one of their
favorite games—trying to talk each other
out of their favorite sport.

“Well, what do you think, Excite-
ment?’ Mahaffey would lead off, calling
Green by his anomalistic nickname.
“Think we ought to go today? I could be
talked out of it, you know.”

“I dunno,” Green would reply with his
usual enthusiasm. “Could be bad. Looks
like they’re going to work us pretty good.”

“That settles it,’”Mahaffey would de-
cide. “We're pulling out today. I could
use the rest, anyway.”

And the two would laugh and carry
on and pride themselves on how easy it
was to bail out of practice. But always,
almost as if they understood a subconsci-
ous cue, both would slide out of the
booth and trudge off to Wilson Field,
across the longest concrete footbridge of
its kind in the world to run their patterns
and take cal. Although they’d badmouth
the drudgery and work, they’d always
show up, Green setting up the jokes and
Mahaffey delivering the zingers.

Mahaffey first became famous, you
might say, in August when the Virginia
press got wind that he’d been to Asia last

 

 

 

spring. Mahaffey took the trip during
Washington and Lee’s second semester so
he could return this fall to play out his
final season of football eligibility. In one
article, he was described as the world’s only
globetrotting redshirt, but what the story
failed to point out, probably because Ma-
haffey kept it from the reporter, was the
fact he’d had a few flirtations with trouble
during the tour.

Among the many sides to his character,
one to them seems to be a distinct facility
for walking into bad situations. Mahaffey,
for example, just happened to be in Thai-
land and on his way to Angkor Wat when
American troops invaded Cambodia. Be-
cause he was in ROTC and somewhat
inclined for adventure, Mahaffey was
thinking about going to the front lines to
see what things looked like, but that was
before the invasion. When he heard what
was going on, he quickly turned tail and
headed off in another direction. Among
other things, Mahaffey readily admits he’s
a chicken.

Several weeks later, he was in Manila
wrapping up his tour and on the way
home. One night he was in a restaurant,
he says minding his own business, when a
drunk approached him, pulled out a gun,
and started asking Mahaffey why he was
bothering his girlfriend. Arms raised, a
friendly smile on his face, and nervously
claiming innocence, Mahaffey discreetly
moved out of the place—backwards—and
went somewhere else for dinner. Later,
he was able to laugh about it, pointing
out that the girl wasn’t that good looking,
anyway, and certainly nothing to fight
over. “When that dude pulled out a gun,”
Mahaffey says, “I figured it was time for
me to go. There’s no sense fighting bul-
lets.”

If Mahaffey’s trip to Asia didn’t make
him an overnight celebrity, his nickname
did. Somehow, word got out that he was a
full-blooded Chickasaw Indian, and peo-
ple got to calling him “Chief.” It seemed
to be a natural—Mahaffey had those high
cheekbones. He was lithe, lean, and fast
as the March wind. Running patterns or
chasing down punts, no one could lay a
hand on him. Of course, nothing was
further from the truth, his being a full-
blooded Chickasaw or even part Chicka-
saw, that is, but Mahaffey never did deny
it. As he would point out to any number
of cornerbacks and safeties during the sea-
son, there was no way they were going to
cover him, and they knew why. It was a
psyche factor he played to the hilt.

ATHLETICS: 13 |

When the weather finally abated in Boston, Mahaffey went after a national ranking. Here,
he takes off on a 50-yard touchdown play, getting a block from Bruce Green.

In some ways, the press hurt Mahaffey.
Through Washington and Lee’s first four
games, he was stifled, mainly because
teams were laying for him, but also be-
cause the Generals were having troubles
getting the ball his way. Washington and
Lee’s first opponent—Emory & Henry—
came to town thinking the best way to
handle Mahaffey was to put three or four
defenders on him during punting situa-
tions, when they knew exactly where he
was going. On Washington and Lee’s first
punt, three Wasps tore into Mahaffey as
he started downfield, and the massacre
was on. When a fourth defender came in
headfirst and speared him, an official fin-
ally threw a flag to halt the annihilation.
When Mahaffey got up, he was dazed and
soundly beaten. But he came back later in
the afternoon to catch a 69-yard touch-
down pass, one of four throws he caught
that day for 147 yards.

The following week, playing with a
bruised thigh, Mahaffey caught only one
pass, a 13-yarder. Towson doubled up on
him throughout the game, often adding
a third back to the cloak. But in that con-
test, the Generals discovered a new quar-
terback—sophomore Steve Fluharty—and
that change was to be instrumental in Ma-
haffey’s success as the season wore on.

When the Generals flew to Boston to
meet Tufts for their fifth game, Mahaffey
appeared to be a washout. Against Centre
in the third game, he had caught six passes
for 49 yards; against Hampden-Sydney,
in the fourth, only three for 30 yards. In
four games, he had caught only 14 passes
for 239 yards and a single touchdown. He
definitely was not enjoying the kind of
year that had been planned for him. But
against Tufts, in a howling gale that blew
snow flurries across the field, Mahaffey
started sneaking up on a national rank-
ing. In that game, he caught 15 passes
for 236 yards, both school records. One of
his catches was a beautiful 50-yard touch-
down play that was broken by a nifty
block from Green.

Mahaffey’s reception record stood ex-
actly one week. Against Western Mary-
land the following Saturday, he caught 17
Fluharty passes, only two shy of the NCAA
college division single game mark. His
performance against the Green ‘Terrors
vaulted him to a spot among the nation’s
top receivers, with three games to go.

During the final three weeks, Mahaffey
cooled off, but only slightly. He got five in
the rain against Sewanee, 13 against South-
western, and finished with 10 against
Washington University. For nine games,

 

 

 

14: ATHLETICS

Mahaffey caught a whopping 74 passes,
good for 897 yards and a pair of touch-
downs. He broke the Washington and
Lee season record convincingly, surpass-
ing by 30 receptions the standard formerly
held by Bill David and Bucky Cunning-
ham, and he set a new W&L career mark
with 127 catches. The old record of 88
lifetime receptions was held previously
by Cunningham.

More importantly, Mahaffey finished
the season as the country’s No. 1 pass re-
ceiver among college division players. He
was first in two categories—most caught
total and most caught per game, the lat-
ter standard used by the NCAA this year
to award individual honors since some
teams played nine games while others
scheduled 10 or 11.

To take the top spot, Mahaffey had to
sweat out a two-week period when Bob
Somerville of the University of Missouri-
Rolla had a chance to maintain the first-
place ranking he held throughout the
year. With the Washington and Lee sched-
ule completed, Mahaffey, with an average
of 8.2 catches for nine games, was behind
Somerville, who was averaging 8.4 catches
through eight games. But Somerville
caught only three passes in his ninth game,
at that point dropping him to eight
catches a game and behind Mahaffey. Still,
Somerville had a chance to retain the No.
1 position during Missouri-Rolla’s game
with Lincoln University on Thanksgiving
Day. He needed 10 receptions in his final
game to tie Mahaffey, 11 to pass him, but,
in a blustery cold wind, Somerville didn’t
make one catch. Mahaffey had the title.

When notified by phone on Thanks-
giving night that he’d made it, Mahaffey’s
acceptance speech was brief and concise.
“You're kidding?” he asked. “Really?”
Thinking he had misunderstood the in-
tention of the call, Mahaffey again was
told what happened. “All right,” came the
reply. “Aw’ll r-r-right.” He was asked
jokingly how it felt to back into the top
spot. “I'll take it,” Mahaffey chimed. “It
wasn't easy.” He hung up laughing.

For his spectacular year, he easily won
first-team All-Virginia honors, was named
to the All-College Athletic Conference
squad, and was picked to a berth on the
Little All-America honorable mention
team. That seemed to be an insult to Ma-
haffey’s abilities, since one of the first-team
selections—John Curtis of Springfield—
caught only 43 passes for 753 yards, and
in his best game, against Albright, caught
only 10 passes for 193 yards. One of the

reasons Mahaffey didn’t rate any higher,
it was explained, was the fact that the
Generals had a losing season, an automatic
strike against a player regardless of his
individual merit.

Yet there was some talk that he’d be
going to a post-season all-star bowl game,
even after he’d been slighted by the All-
America selectors. That never panned out,
either. Mahaffey got some kind of notion
that he wasn’t going to make it when the
North-South game people announced that
among the first few receivers they had
picked one had 9.3 speed and the other
9.6, and they were from Arizona State and
USC,

“I knew then there was no way,” Ma-

haffey says. “I’m from W&L, remember,
and I haven’t run that fast since Manila.”

So Mahaffey spent his final college days
in Lexington, rather than in Miami or
Honolulu where he might have run pat-
terns against, say, Jack Tatum of Ohio
State, “a hometown boy,” as he put it.
Maybe it was best he didn’t go, though,
since he did have exams to study for and
it would be good to make high grades.

He was asked five days before the ex-
amination period if he was cracking the
books. “No, not really,” came the reply.
“Too much work. Besides, Green and I
have to shoot billiards in 10 minutes.”

No, Steve Mahaffey never was a Spar-
tan.

 

Cleaning up after work, Mahaffey grabs a quick rest between plays.

ATRILETICS: 15

| . It was a frustrating season for Wash- 4
) ington and Lee, to be sure. The Generals’ G en era Is d efense trou b ed i
| \ offense, somewhat sluggish in recent times,
surprisingly grew capricious, while the k ms d . ad
| W&L defensive unit, for years firm and but quarterbac IS iscovere
‘s trustworthy, suddenly fell inconsistent.
| Notably, it was a season that featured
) the emergence of second-year quarterback
s Steve Fluharty, a player unheralded at
| if the start but nationally prominent at the
~ conclusion of the Generals’ schedule.
» Loved by his receivers because he threw
floating passes, Fluharty came off the
bench during W&L’s second game, against
J Towson, and from that point it was just
“s a matter of how long it would take him to
|. get used to varsity competition. All it
| l took was the next two games—against Cen-
tre and Hampden-Sydney.
* After he refined his timing and gained
\ his unit’s confidence, things began to
\ mM click. During a bitterly cold afternoon in
Boston against Tufts, it was apparent the
> game was going to be an offensive dual;
‘» while Tufts was running the ball at will,
the Generals were having little trouble
passing. The lead changed hands six times,
but, finally, the issue was settled as Flu-
harty hit 19 of 30 for 307 yards, 15 ending
up in Steve Mahaffey’s arms, and when
senior linebacker Frank Evans dropped
i » the Tuft’s quarterback on a crucial end-
+»,  of-the-game two-point conversion attempt.
With his arm limber, experience under
(” his belt, and Mahaffey out scouting the
[. secondary for open spots, Fluharty con-
| tinued to put the ball up frequently, to
| such an extent and with so much success
} that he finished the year 131 for 257 for
| 1,458 yards and seven touchdowns, aver-
| » aging better than 16 completions a game.
That ranked him seventh among the na-
| tion’s small college quarterbacks, and it ="
| vaulted him to the top of the College Ath-
r letic Conference passing and total offense
Ss categories. Along with Mahaffey, he was
) named to the Little All-America honor- iti, Oe
able mention team.
% Unfortunately, W&L had more than its
share of troubles this fall proving that its
«4, best offense, aside from Fluharty and Ma-
' . haffey, was a good defense. The Generals
} were unable to come up with the big play,
1-~- halting opponents on critical third-down
| situations. As defensive coordinator Boyd
- Williams said after W&L’s final game:
“It’s been a long time since we’ve been

 

 

> .

| pushed around as much as we have this
ve year.”

# One of the most disturbing elements

of the fall occurred in a pre-season prac- The find of the year was sophomore quarterback Steve Fluharty.

 

lo: ATHLETICS

 

ew

Defensive coordinator Boyd Williams spent the season pondering the problems of
inconsistency, often conferring with linebackers Frank Evans (above) and Tim Haley.

tice session when senior linebacker and
tri-captain Drew Kumpuris was hit on a
freak play that twisted his knee every way
possible. He was immediately lost for the
season, thus removing from the Generals’
defensive unit its most knowledgeable and
experienced player at a time when W&L
could ill-afford such a loss. The rest of the
unit was relatively young and inexperi-
enced, and it was thin on depth.

In addition to the Tufts game, about
the only other time Williams was able to

smile was when the Generals braced for a
fine Parents’ Weekend 13-0 shutout over
Sewanee. After Williams was handed the
game ball, he turned to his players and
told them that “this is one of the proudest
days of my life. We made them use every
chicken play in the book, and they still
couldn’t do a damn thing. Fellas, you've
made me a mighty happy man today.”
Because W&L suffered from its youth,
lack of size and speed, and depth prob-
lems, the team simply wore out each

game. Emory & Henry in the first game,
for example, defeated the Generals, 27-14,
by overpowering W&L, a trend that was
to characterize losses to Towson (34-14),
Centre (40-6), Hampden-Sydney (19-0),
Western Maryland (37-21), Southwestern
(42-14), and Washington University (17-
13). In all, the Generals gave up an aver-
age of 338 yards a game—229 by rushing
and 109 passing—and relinquished 250
points, an average of 28 per game.

Trying to improve W&L’s balance, no
doubt, will be head coach Buck Leslie’s
major worry over the next several months,
but there are signs pointing to better times
ahead. A year’s experience should greatly
help the Generals’ defensive unit, which
loses only four players—linebackers Kum-
puris, Evans, Ken Carter, and cornerback
Jim Allen—to graduation. The returning
personnel include linebackers George
Harris and Tim Haley, and cornerback
Dave Brooks, who represent the best of
the lot in expertise, aggressiveness, and
speed,

On the other hand, W&L’s offensive
unit could be just as pass conscious as it
was this fall. Fluharty returns, of course,
and end Chappy Conrad will move up to
take Mahaffey’s place. Conrad is tall and
rangy, has a good pair of hands, and re-
flects Mahaffey’s ability to get open. Also
available will be Rich Romanelli, who
more than likely will assume Bruce
Green’s job at flanker. Romanelli was used
in spots during the 1970 season, and when
he was in showed flashes of speed and in-
stinct, thus offering Fluharty a second
good receiver when the 1971 schedule
opens.

The list of opponents is a demanding
one, to say the least. Emory & Henry and
Tufts will be dropped, but taking their
places will be powerful Bucknell and the
Coast Guard Academy, joining Towson,
Centre, Hampden-Sydney, Western Mary-
land, Sewanee, Southwestern, and Wash-
ington University.

More than enough to keep Leslie and
Williams busy in the days ahead.

* * *

Washington and Lee players named to
the All-Virginia small college teams in-
cluded split end Steve Mahaffey to the first
team, and guard Staman Ogilvie, tackle
Steve Hannon, quarterback Steve Flu-
harty, flanker Bruce Green, linebacker
George Harris, and cornerback Dave
Brooks to the honorable mention list.

 

 

ALUMNI: 17

 

Now is the time to submit to
the Alumni Committee on Nomi-
nations the names of alumni you
prefer for nomination for three
seats on the Alumni Board of Di-
rectors and one seat on the Uni-
versity Committee on Intercol-
legiate Athletics.

The nominating committee
will close its report on April 1,
and present its nominations to
be voted upon at the annual
meeting of the Washington and
Lee Alumni Association on May
8 in Lee Chapel. The annual
meeting coincides with the spring
reunion weekend.

JAMES H. BIERER, ’40
Pittsburgh Corning Corp.
One Gateway Center
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222

 

 

Name your candidate

Under the By-Laws, any mem-
ber of the Alumni Association
may suggest names of alumni to
the nominating committee for
nomination for the offices to be
filled. Alumni may send names to
any member of the nominating
committee or to the committee
through the office of the execu-
tive secretary of the Alumni As-
sociation.

Members of the 12-man Alum-
ni Board of Directors are elected
to four-year terms, with the terms
of three members expiring each
year. Retiring from the Board
in May are Joseph F. Bear, ‘33,

 

WILLIAM KING SELF, ’39,
Chairman

Riverside Industries

P. O. Box 218

Marks, Miss. 38646

of Montgomery, Ala., Charles F.
Clarke, ’38, of Cleveland, Ohio,
and Edward H. Ould, ’29, of
Roanoke, Va.

Alumni members of the Ath-
letic Committee serve two-year
terms, with one alumni member
retiring each year. The member
retiring in 1971 is Richard W.
Smith, ’41, of Staunton, Va.

In compliance with Article g
of the By-Laws of Washington
and Lee Alumni, Inc., the names,
addresses, and pictures of the
members of the nominating com-
mittee for 1971-72 are published
here:

 

ROBERT M. WHITE, II, ’38
Editor, The Mexico Ledger

3 Park Circle

Mexico, Missouri 65265

 

Chapter news

 

 

DANVILLE. The four freshmen and their
parents from the chapter area were guests
at a dinner-reception on Sept. 2 in Mar-
tinsville, featuring talks by athletic direc-
tor Gene Corrigan, assistant development gram.

director Jerry Poudrier, assistant dean of
students Jim Mathews, and alumni secre-
tary Bill Washburn. F. Nelson Light, ’52,
chapter president, presided over the pro-

their fathers were guests of the chapter on
+ Sept. 2 at the home of John Howard, ’57,
at which several upperclassmen presented
brief talks on campus life.

,
BALTIMORE. Twenty two freshmen and

 

183: ALUMNI

 

SAVE THESE DATES

 

 

 

—_— aaa

 

for

honoring

1921 1931 1946
(50th) (40th) (25th)

and

dates now.

 

May 7 and 8

1971 Spring Class Reunions

Academic and Law Classes

(15th) (10th)

An informative and entertaining program
Make your plans now to be present for a rewarding weekend on the
Washington and Lee campus.

1956 1961

The Old Guard

(Those who were at W&L more than 50 years ago)

Invitations and reservation forms will be mailed to you. But save the

 

is being prepared for you.

 

 

Chapter correspondents

Appalachian—A, C. Smeltzer, '29, 127 West
Main Street, Abingdon, Virginia 24210

Arkansas—Richard C. Butler, III. '59, 36 River
Ridge Rd., Little Rock, Ark. 72207

Atlanta—R. William Ide, III, ’62, 3126 Roberta
Drive, N. W., Atlanta, Georgia 30327

AEE Te ee ee ODES L. Rhea, ’58,
619 Fraser Lane, Staunton, Va. 24401

Baltimore—Thomas J. Kenny, ’54, Rt. 7.
ae Avenue, Pikesville, Maryland

Birmingham—William E. Smith, Jr., '’63, 15
Norman Drive, Birmingham, Ala. 35213
Charleston, West Virginia—William T. W.
Brotherton, Jr., ’47, 1020 Kanawha Valley

Building, Charleston, W. Va. 25301

Charlotte—Harry J. Grim, '52, 2522 Sherwood
Avenue, Charlotte, North Carolina 28207

Chattanooga—Wesley G. Brown, ’51, Penn
Mutual Life Ins. Co., Lobby Maclellan
Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402

Chicago—William H. Hillier, '38, 321 West
Lincoln Avenue, Wheaton, Ill. 60187

Cleveland—Peter M. Weimer, '63, c/o The W.
F, Ryan Corp., 3940 Euclid Ave., Cleveland,
Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—O. Thomas Kaylor, Jr..
’45, 940 The Terrace, Hagerstown, Md. 21740

Danville—F. Nelson Light, '52, Route No. 2,
Box 695, Chatham, Va. 24531

Florida West Coast—J. Thomas Touchton, ’60,
3701 Bayshore Blvd., Tampa, Florida 33611

Gulf Stream—J. Alan Cross, Jr., '51, 9700
Dominican Drive, Cutler Ridge, Miami,
Florida 33157

Houston—Fred B. Griffin, ’60, 4005 Chatham,
Houston, Texas 77027

Jacksonville—John G. McGiffin, III, °63, 4114
McGirts Blvd., Jacksonville, Fla. 32201

Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, '49, 814 Westover
Road, Kansas City, Mo. 64113

Louisville—A. R. Boden, Jr., °52, 3913 Druid
Hill Road, Louisville, Ky. 40207

Lynchburg—James D. Taylor, ’41, P.O. Box
97, Lynchburg, Va. 24505

Mid-South—Donald A. Malmo, ’50, 395 South
Yates Road, Memphis, Tenn. 38117

Mobile—G. Sage Lyons, ’58, Lyons, Pipes &
Cook, 517 First National Bank Bldg.,
Mobile, Ala. 36602

New Orleans—Gus A. Fritchie, Jr., ’50, 213
Cleveland Ave., Slidell, La. 70458

New River-Greenbrier—Thomas A. Myles, ‘16,
Box 126, Fayetteville. W. Va. 25840

New York—Matthews A. Griffith, ’40, 2 West
16th Street. New York, New York 10011

Norfolk—Frank H. Callahan, Jr.. ’52, 1401
Brunswick Ave., Norfolk, Va. 23508

North Texas—Richard D. Haynes, '58, 2921
LTV Tower, Dallas, Texas 75201

Northern California—John A. Williamson, IT,
53, 3147 Stevens Creek Blvd., Santa Clara,
Calif. 95050

Northern Louisiana—M. Alton Evans. Jr., ’63,
P. O. Box 639, Shreveport, La. 71102

Palm Beach-Ft. Lauderdale—Hugh S. Glick-
stein, '53, 2138 Hollywood Blvd., Hollywood,
Fla. 33020

Palmetto—William M. Bowen, ’63, Dowling,
Dowling, Sanders and Dukes, Beaufort,
S. C. 29902

Peninsula—Frank S. Beazlie, Jr., ’40, 1205
Mallicotte Lane, Newport News, Va. 23606
Pensacola—Robert D. Hart, Jr., ’63, 3985 Pied-

mont Rd., Pensacola Fla. 32503

Philadelphia—Arthur Blank, II, 60, Reynolds
ee Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.
1910

Piedmont—Walter L. Hannah, ’50, 5100 Lau-
vinda Dr., Greensboro, N.C. 27410

Pittsburgh—John E. Perry, ’38, 1330 Terrace
Drive. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15228

Richmond—Joseph M. Spivey, ’62, 4207 Brom-
ley Lane, Richmond, Va, 23221

Roanoke—William J, Lemon, ’57, 2201 Grandin
Road, S. W., Roanoke, Va. 24015 :

Rockbridge—Robert W. H. Mish, Jr., 46,
15 West Washington Street, Lexington, Va.
24450

San Antonio Texas—Brentano C. Harnisch, ’39,
231 Burr Road, San Antonio, Texas 78209
St. Louis—Bruce E. Bussen, ’56, 5000 Bussen
Road, St, Louis, Mo. 63129

Savannah River—Tudor Hall, ’60, P. O. Box
116, Beech Isiand, S.C. 29842

South Carolina Piedmont—Alvin T. Fleish-
man, ’41, P. O. Drawer 1049, Anderson, S. C.
29621

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick,
’58, 2026 North Olive, Santa Ana., Calif. 92706

Southern Ohio—Stanley A. Hooker, Jr., '39,
ae Beverly Hills Drive, Cincinnati, Ohio
45

Tulsa—J. Barry Epperson, ’60, 2440 E. 45th
St., Tulsa, Oklahoma 74105

a aac Potomac—Albert D. Darby, Jr., ’48, 507

umberland St., Cumberland. Md. 21502

Washington—Edson B. Olds, ’61, 808 Fordham
St., Rockville, Md. 20850

Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, ’52, Box 3958,
Wilmington, Del. 19807

b. ALUMNI: 19

 

& WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
}- STATEMENT OF REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES
[ For the Year ended June 30, 1970
/« INCOME:
aN Cash collected on pledges and matching gifts ........ le ceeeeeeseeereeeereeeens $291,262.00

| OPERATING EXPENSES:
,. RMI pigs: Sedan e hea e one NORPAad hj aahc tosh cstusngutons vnlvesstidvap dias cadoieyadbecpereassacrosacene $35,897.00
l BR NI 555 ipa o5 cos oa shh stage spon tadne hs ak vatas consns Febnsaenats tas sceushanecosciqunseenansei dives 14,195.00
fi ASANTE OGG SUVs... ccslerddieessenechvsnssonnndsensnesneis cdhutipenancdsnos rsbhehpinbennncdaveneae 630.00
;** TUN eS US Bi Be cit eee dc aibaadcy cad ce vos ackepeabes 346.00
. « PNG 055i acces esc nsa i cov secdsddegswac Sesssdnouasssteusiseadaigesukyssubetebeby ys ysrsapaayegis 4,080.00
MMOLE NS © ORE CA taoitns cuacecoh tv caibazlaidtiondictgligsh Oeduaeemnelesasbines dibcabonrse sila dacveuniiel 92.00
3 . RPMI ao ons. da nea ei ss obtains dann tas Maddog aga th «ig SAMAMEA SCALA in addesmpd tabann becocedtoee 1,54'7.00
| PURRUIR NEL: DRAM RNA RED E50 acess + <spiddndt bn bebaee «ndotnesb RUIN: « cablbnasubonshcth ecer oo MUA Mesexcoonsb'abie 22,816.00
(° APR OAN GREG ok see Rt cg kh dem URS ERR Ca ee wc DE IIIS soc avcgt Tot 2,861.00
” ie i i Ga ar eae ahs a aga ch Miya Laut naraLe Son sndesnagee 3,746.00
A BROAD AU UR ouch fata rican He IOs ws cdietins eahavoe de taederseatadahin sneer ciobads 4,688.00
SE PRR Res Cates, RRR RENAR ©. 3Y lc cnlgiigs toss cunt as Coats dlven persuaded spdsig (hacen dhastiabatobaoassognate 641.00
" TN oe ede heute <a derhetagesaphach cod clabbublpasapscoesespescenscvannstascaesccsessansaege 5»'752.00
RN aE i555 soy csneirdn casos ay sho sndueinesadguaryss osnaned caneduncyeataaspveregs4 oS eOaul 11,228.00

.
IND SUMED RUSTE) GM SIETINE GS 665.05 ecos chctrtsacosesessvorgsanspgshcnssticbandsds ada¥tiesooeestoes 108,519.00

Excess of cash collected over operating eXpeNs€S .............cc cece $182,743.00

DESIGNATED INCOME TRANSFERRED TO
UNIVERSITY ‘TREASURER:

 

Endowment—1944 Class Fund. ............ccccsscccsssscessecceseseessecsessecesseeeesseeens $ 7,335.00

MG onc ssc npeseusicelundotccdececesesascavescceabdsescucvessneusacedegecscecnesiie 8,357.00

5. ans dance apshlvcarssedoe eas ssshandoigsectvargisaastsvansveeoneese oanacesdns 9,055.00

IE 5625s co vannnnasss;Vesssroceonnesnces dopoventsesategaetvstert tesendeceoseceoece 2,510.00

University departmental use or special funds ............ccccececceseeseeseeeees 9,216.00

Total designated income transferred ...........0.cccccccccesseessecessseeeeseesees 36,473.00
Excess of cash collected over operating expenses and
Eu... access istucnsshesiedesdsaccaesediseceussssceavoccossecsconsstoscacoonseconss $146,270.00
REVOLVING FUND BALANCE, June 30, 1970 (Cash advanced by

I ssc cnnccbigsecnpeosescipesevessscsoncesseeconseesecseeeseroosessocsseseees $ 800.00
NOTE:

All items of income and expenditures in this statement were taken into the accounts of
the University ‘Treasurer.

 

 

 

 

 

20: CLASS NOVES

Class notes

 

 

‘THE

CHAIR

rock maple, hand-rubbed

welcome gift for

ham, ’14.
Price: $39.00 f.o.b.

Gardner, Massachusetts

Mail your order to

ALUMNI, INC.

the order.

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and

black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Lexington, Virginia 24450

The normal shipping interval is
five to six weeks after the receipt of

 

 

1907

The Presbyterian Historical Society has be-
stowed its Distinguished Service Award upon
the REv. Dr. ROBERT STUART SANDERS in rec-
ognition of his scholarly attainments and his-
torical interest. The presentation was made
at the Society’s annual Founders’ Day cere-
monies on October 8 in Philadelphia. Dr.
Sanders, 90, was cited for his significant con-
tribution to an understanding of American
Presbyterian history. His list of publications
includes numerous church histories and stu-
dies of Presbyterianism in Kentucky. He has
served many churches as minister and also
as superintendent of home missions in the
Presbytery of Florida, moderator of the Synod
of Tennessee, a trustee of King College, and
a director of the Louisville Presbyterian Theo-
logical Seminary. His son, DR. IRVIN ‘TAYLOR
SANDERS, W&L ’g9, chairman of the Depart-
ment of Sociology at Boston University, ac-
cepted the award on behalf of Dr. Sanders.
His grandson, I. Taylor Sanders, II, is a pro-
fessor of history at Washington and Lee.

19it

An era ended Sept. 5 with the retirement of
JOHN T. GRaAy, the 82-year-old jurist who
commanded the Ninth Chancery Division
of Tennessee for 20 years. Gray became clerk
and master of the Haywood County Chan-
cery Court in 1913. He practiced law in
Brownsville for 35 years, and was then elect-
ed chancellor.
19}3

The Rev. Georce W. DIEHL has recently pub-
lished a book The Reverend Samuel Hous-
ton, U.D.M. Houston was graduated in the
first class of Washington College in 1785 and
was a member of the Board of Trustees from
1791-1826. Diehl is retired from service in the
Presbyterian Church, but has been interim
pastor of the Timber Ridge A.R.P. church
in Rockbridge County, Va. for the past 18

months.
1922

A new addition to the dental school at the
Medical College of Virginia, the health sci-
ences division of Virginia Commonwealth
University, has been named for Dr. HARRy
Lyons, one of the most eminent men in
America in the field of dental education. He
retired from the faculty last year. Lyons has
been president of four national organizations
in the field of dentistry, and he was also
speaker of the house of delegates of the
American Dental Association.

1925

Serving in his 34th year, J. G. RAGSDALE has
recently been re-elected to an additional four-
year term as municipal judge of El Dorado,

1928

ARTHUR P. BONDURANT has been elected to
the board of directors of Hillerich & Brads-
by Co. of Louisville, Ky. Bondurant, retired
first vice president and marketing and cor-
porate director of Glenmore Distillery, is
still a consultant to Glenmore’s board of
directors.

Ark.

1931

After 24 years, ALFRED D. Noyes has retired
from the Juvenile Court bench of Montgom-
ery County, Md. The 62-year-old jurist re-
ceived the Distinguished Citizens Award from
Secretary of State Blair Lee, III in behalf of
Gov. Mandel, and a plaque was also present-
ed to Noyes, a former president of the Na-
tional Council of Juvenile Court Judges, by
the Montgomery Bar Association. Noyes holds
a life membership in the Montgomery County
Council of Parents and Teachers, and he has
served as a consultant to the National In-
stitute of Mental Health. He has also been a
delegate to the White House Conference for
Children and Youth, and a member of the
Maryland Youth Commission.

1932

FLroyp E. McKee has been elected first vice
president in charge of the corporate division
in New York banking department of Bank-
ers Trust Co. McKee joined the firm in 1934.
In 1960, he became treasurer and chief fi-
nancial officer of Grand Central Building,
Inc., with responsibility for the financing of
the Pan-Am Building. He returned to Bank-
ers Trust in 1966.

1934

EVERETT ‘TUCKER, JR. has been elected presi-
dent of the Little Rock (Arkansas) Club. He
is the first president since the consolidation
of the club with the Top of the Rock Club.

1935

Jo M. VAN ZANDT, an insurance executive in
Louisville, Ky., has been appointed to serve
on the newly created producer/company
council of Crum & Forster Insurance Com-
panies. The C&F producer council has been
established on a regional basis, designed to
create an opportunity for independent agents
and C&F company personnel to discuss needs
of the insurance-buying public.

1938

Consolidated Foods Corp. has appointed
WILLIAM C. BAKER, JR. president and chief
executive officer of its Ocoma Foods Co.
Baker was a corporate distribution consul-
tant at Consolidated Foods before assuming
his new duties. Before he joined Consolidated
Foods in 1969, Baker was president of the
Produce Terminal Cold-Storage Co., a major
distributor of frozen foods and poultry. The
new president of Ocoma is a past member of
the board of governors of the Chicago Mer-
cantile Exchange and a past president of the
National Association of Refrigerated Ware-

houses.
1939

The Rr. Rev. CuristopH KELLER, JR. has be-
come Diocesan Bishop of Arkansas.

1940

MAJ. GEN. FRANK A. NICHOLS has retired
from the U.S. Air Force. Currently, he is
serving as a consultant to Congressman Pir-
nie of New York.

7

Pp

1942

W. MARSHALL JOHNSON of the Associated
Press bureau in Richmond, Va. has_ been
named sports editor for Virginia.

1943

JAMEs H. DAvEs, audit manager of Peat, Mar-
wick, Mitchell & Co. of Nashville, Tenn., was
recently installed as president of the Ten-
nessee Society of Certified Public Accountants
at its annual meeting in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

Ernest E. SmiTH has been elected assistant
vice president of Crum & Forster Insurance
Companies. He is currently manager of the
surety division. Smith served with Ameri-
can Surety Co. of New York, beginning in
1945, and with American Insurance Co. of
Newark, beginning in 1959, before joining
Crum & Forster.

H. Jackson Cary of Kearney, Neb. has been
elected state chairman of the Committee for
Action on Rural and Urban Taxation. It is
non-political and not affiliated with any civic
or farm organization. The organization is
making certain legislative proposals for
changes in property taxation regulations.

1947

Puitie C. BRAUNSCHWEIG has been named vice
president of procurement for the Chamberlin
Rubber Co. of Rochester, N.Y.

1948

Professor WARREN U. OBER has been appointed
director of the new Inter-Faculty Programme
Board at the University of Waterloo. The ap-
pointment is the first step in the develop-
ment of a new concept in academic planning
at Waterloo. The board will create and co-
ordinate interdisciplinary, non-specialist
courses and programs that center on contem-
porary problems and broad themes, rather
than on subject matter which is specific to a
single discipline. Ober has been a member of
the English department since 1965.

ARTHUR P. BONDURANT, ’28

 

1949

C. Tair Trussevy is director of public rela-
tions and advertising for the Investment Com-
pany Institute.

Dr. D. EARL Brown, JR., has been appointed
head of neurology and psychiatry for the
Navy. He was formerly chief of neurology and
psychiatry at the Naval Hospital in Philadel-
phia, Pa. He also served as intern program di-
rector for the University of Pennsylvania. He
holds the rank of captain in the Navy.

1950

Dr. Herpert A. Luss, who has been with the
Yale medical faculty since 1959 and who was
appointed associate professor of medicine and
pediatrics at the Yale School of Medicine in
1968, has just been appointed associate pro-
fessor of pediatrics at the University of Colo-
rado School of Medicine. Before joining the
Yale faculty, Lubs was a clinical associate in
the endocrinology branch of the National
Cancer Institute. At Colorado, he is a member
of the staff of the John F. Kennedy Child
Development Center, in charge of its clinical
and research work in cytogenetics.

195]

J. ALAN Cross, JR. has received the life mem-
bership award for PTA work as president of
the elementary school PTA in Coral Gables,
Fla. He is also serving on the city’s budget
advisory commission.

1952

CLIFTON T. (TED) HUNT, JR., Greensboro pa-
tent attorney, was elected on November 3 to
the North Carolina House of Representatives.
Hunt, a Republican, said his victory sur-
prised him because he was a member of a
minority party, was running for political of-
fice for the first time, had lived in Greensboro
only seven years, and lacked the endorsement
of the newspapers, labor unions, and Negro
groups. The newspapers attributed his suc-

caer eee

eee?
ee | re We 9a

Dr. D. EARL BROWN, JR., 49

 

CLASS NOVES: 21

cess to an intensive personal campaign. He
will be one of three Republicans in the nine-
member delegation to the General Assembly
from Guilford County. After graduation from
law school, Hunt practiced law in Charlotte.
He moved to Greensboro in 1964 and is a
partner in the firm of Hunt, Heard and
Rhodes. He and his wife, the former Eliza-
beth Rudasill, have three children.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JosEPH J. MULLINS, Jr.
a daughter, Cerianne Lynn, on Sept. 15, in
Albuquerque, N.M., where Mullins is a prac-
ticing attorney.

Ropert F. MAver, president of Leonard C.
Ketchum & Son, Inc. of White Plains, N.Y.,
has been appointed to serve on the newly
created producer/company council of Crum
& Forster Insurance Companies.

Joun L. BOWLEs of Bethesda, Md. has joined
First Virginia Bankshares Corp., a registered
bank holding company, as vice president for
investments.

In Norton, Va., KENT Ricc is president of
Kennedy’s Piggly Wiggly Stores, Inc., with six
retail outlet stores in the surrounding area.

The patent department of Hercules, Inc. has
named S. MAYNARD TURK as senior patent
counsel. In addition to his new duties in the
department, Turk will carry over to his new
assignment all duties in the patent area
which he performed in the legal department.
Turk joined Hercules in 1954 as counsel at
its Radford, Va. facility. In 1959, he was trans-
ferred to the home office as counsel in the

legal department.
1953

WALTER MAyYTHAM has been promoted to
senior editor in the college and university di-
vision of McGraw-Hill, Inc. He received his
M.B.A. degree from Stanford University, and
joined the firm in 1959 as a college traveller.
He became a sponsoring editor in 1965.

James A. Foitz has been appointed vice
president for organization and manpower
development of Heinz, USA; a division of
H. J. Heinz Co.

Harry P. Davis, JR. has been named manager
of the newly formed financing department of
Sun Oil Co. Davis joined Sun in 1953, and
he has advanced through several executive
positions. He is also assistant treasurer of
several subsidiary companies. A resident of
Wayne, Pa., Davis is past president of the
Valley Forge Civic Association and _ past
treasurer of the Tredyffrin Township Civic
Council.

Triangle Publications, Inc. has named HAr-
OLD FITZGERALD (GERRY) LENFEST as head of
its new communications division, consisting
of Seventeen magazine, its CAT properties,
and its educational services organization.
Lenfest, an attorney with Triangle, will also
become publisher of Seventeen.

After receiving a master of science degree in
urban and regional planning from Florida
State University in June, 1970, the Rev.
CHARLEs F. McNutrt, JR. is now employed as
director of planning for the Episcopal Diocese
of Florida, located in Jacksonville.

22; CLASS NOVES

 

Senator-elect Brock, a big winner in Tennessee, confers
with President Nixon.

WEL men do well at polls

Washington and Lee alumni played a
major role in the November elections in
‘Tennessee, and one alumnus—Dr. G. Wil-
liam Whitehurst—won re-election to the
U.S. House of Representatives from the
2nd District in Virginia.

The headliner in Tennessee was Wil-
liam E. Brock, III, ’53, who defeated in-
cumbent Democrat Albert Gore for the
U.S. Senate. Brock, 40 years old, had the
strong backing of the Nixon Administra-
tion. Both the President and Vice Presi-
dent Agnew campaigned in the state on
his behalf. Brock, who had been in Con-
gress since 1962, was one of several Re-
publicans who passed up virtually certain
re-election to try to unseat Democratic
senators. His race against Gore, who was
seeking a fourth term, was closely watched
throughout the nation.

Brock was a member of the House
Banking and Currency Committee and
last year organized a special committee
that investigated campus unrest. He was
parade marshal for the 1968 Washington
and Lee Republican Mock Convention.

Republican Winfield Dunn, a Mem-

phis dentist whose son, Chuck, is a Wash-
ington and Lee sophomore, was another
GOP winner in Tennessee, capturing the
governor’s chair with the help of several
W&L alumni. He will be the first Repub-
lican governor since 1922.

Harry Wellford of Memphis, ’46, was
Dunn’s primary campaign manager and
campaign chairman for the general elec-
tion. Wellford is expected to be nominat-
ed by President Nixon for a_ federal
judgeship from the Western District of
Tennessee. Steve Sharp, ’69, was Dunn’s
communications director in the primary
and his news secretary during the general
campaign. Ward Archer, ’38, handled the
advertising campaign for the primary and
assisted during the general election.
Among Dunn’s close advisers were S. L.
Kopald, Jr., 43, and Dr. Kyle Creson, ’53,
both of whom worked on the finance com-
mittee.

In Virginia, Rep. Whitehurst, ’50, had
little difficulty in winning his second term
to Congress. A Republican, he has a son,
Cal, in his senior year at Washington and
Lee.

1956

CHARLES A. MAc INTOsH has become associate
director of the ‘Temple University Hospital
in Philadelphia.

1957

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. DALE F. Guy, a son,
Lanson David, on July 24 in Houston, Tex.

BELDON BUTTERFIELD has been named director
of advertising sales for Hablemos magazine, a
division of Joshua B. Powers, Inc. Hablemos is
one of the largest Spanish-speaking Sunday
supplement magazines in the world. Butter-
field formerly was manager for books in
Latin America for the International Book
Division of Time-Life in Mexico City.

Dr. ALFRED J. MAGOLINE, JR. has been pro-
moted to lieutenant colonel in the Army
Medical Corps. He expects to be released
from service this summer and will start pri-
vate practice in Akron, Ohio.

THEODORE Morris KERR, an attorney in Mid-
land, Tex., has been named Outstanding
Young Lawyer for 1970 by the State Junior
Bar Association. Kerr is a former president
of the State Junior Bar and has been reap-
pointed co-chairman of the Committee on Re-
sponsible Citizenship. He is a member of the
board of trustees of the Midland Independent
School District.

PAUL R. SPECKMAN, JR. has been appointed
manager for the East Bay region of the
California Plan. The California Plan is a
loan and investment firm with headquar-
ters in Santa Clara, Calif. As an adjunct to his
position, Speckman will also serve as director
of military sales in northern California. Prior
to his recent appointment, Speckman was em-
ployed for four years as house counsel for the
United California Bank in San Francisco, and
he also, for several years, served as general
manager of the L. Piazza Wholesale Florists,
Inc. of Oakland, Calif.

1958

RopGER P. DOYLE, former executive vice presi-
dent and member of the board of directors of
the Ellis National Bank of Tampa, has been
elected president of the First National Bank
of Lakeland, Fla. Doyle is a former member
of the Florida State Turnpike Authority, and
he currently serves as chairman of the board
of the state Department of Business Regula-
tion. He is also a member of the Florida

Council of: 100.
1959

EDWARD D. Briscor, JR. is the new president
of the Arkansas Abstract & Guaranty Co., a
wholly owned subsidiary of the Mississippi
Valley Title Insurance Co. A native of Louis-
ville, Ky., Briscoe has lived in Little Rock
for the past eight years. He is a member of
the Arkansas Bar Association and the Ameri-
can Bar Association. He has been active in
mortgage banking, was formerly with Capitol
Savings & Loan Association and the Guardian
Co., and has been engaged in residential con-
struction.

JouN D. HAtrenporr has been assigned to the
Lubrizol Corporation’s Tulsa, Okla. office as

 

 

a sales engineer. Since joining Lubrizol in
November, 1963, Hattendorf has served as
South American sales representative in Peru
and Mexico City.

1960

BORN: The Rev. PETER J. LEE and Mrs.
Lee announce the adoption of a daughter,
Stewart Lee, born August 17. Lee is assistant
rector of St. John’s Church in Washington,
D.C.

RAYMOND E. WOoOLbDRIDGE is resident man-
ager for Eppler, Guerin, & Turner, Inc. in
Houston, Tex.

SAM D. KNOWLTON, II has joined the faculty of
the School of Law of Florida State University
in Tallahassee.

196]

BORN: Mk. and Mrs. Epson B. OLDs, IV, a
son, Edson B., V, on Oct. 3. Formerly with
the building supply firm of Johnson &
Wimsett, Olds is now director of data pro-
cessing for Peoples Drug Stores, Inc., with of-
fices in Washington, D.C.

Dr. JOHN C. DUMLER, JR. is in the private
practice of dermatology in Harrisonburg, Va.

CHARLES E. Bush, an associate professor of
architecture at Thomas Nelson Community
College, is working on a doctorate in higher
education at the College of William and

Marty.
1962

BORN: Rev. and Mrs. MARK A. SELLERS, JR.,
a son, John Abbott, on Aug. 22.

The United Cerebral Palsy Research and
Educational Foundation has awarded one of
three fellowships in orthopedics to Dr.
CHARLES J. NIEMEYER, for advanced training
at Duke Medical School.

CHARLES R. (RANDY) BUTLER won a decisive
victory for District Attorney of Mobile (Ala.)
County. Butler becomes the first Republican
in modern times to take an office in the county
court house. Butler served two years in the
Army before beginning law practice in Mo-
bile. He resigned his post with the district
defender program in order to run for office.
Butler has been active in programs to combat
drug abuse among youth.

MicHAEL N. HERNDON, an attorney from
Thomasville, Ga., has been elected to the
Georgia State Senate and will serve as its
youngest member.

1963

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. CANDLER,
a daughter, Catherine Greer, on June 7. Cand-
ler is practicing with the Norfolk law firm of
Boyd, Davis, & Payne.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL BALFouR, a
daughter Jane Gillett, on March 25 in Rich-
mond, Va. where Balfour is practicing law.

CRAIG T. DISTLEHORST is senior assistant for
congressional relations, office of the secretary,
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment.

1964
MARRIED: Conway H. SHIELps, III to Kay
Olivia Taylor on Oct. 10 in Richmond.
Among the ushers were JACK DEJARNETTE, ’65,
LOUIE PATERNO, JR., 65, DONALD B. MCFALL,
64, and KENNETH TAYLOR, ’6g.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. DouGLas G. CAMPBELL,
a son, Matthew Logan, on Sept. 24. Campbell
is a partner in the law firm of Harman &
Campbell in Tazewell, Va.

MICHAEL W. SHEFFEY, former commercial of-
ficer at the Peoples American Bank of At-
lanta, has been promoted to assistant vice
president and manager of the bank’s main
office. Sheffey joined Peoples American in
May, 1969 as assistant cashier and credit de-
partment manager. He was formerly associat-
ed with the Miami Beach First National Bank.

CHARLES B. SAVAGE has graduated from North-
western University’s Bank Marketing School.
As the year’s outstanding Jaycee of Montgom-
ery, Ala., he has been nominated for Out-
standing Young Men of America.

1965

MARRIED: JAMEs W. DEYounG to Penelope
Wick on July 25 in Greenwich, Conn. Among
the groomsmen and guests were JIM BUSSART,
65, TomM GOwENLOCK, ’59, BILLY McWIL-
LIAMS, 61, HUGO RUTHERFORD, ’66, BILL TED-
ARDS, 64, PHIL THOMPSON, ’68, and RANDY
WOOTEN, ’64.

T.. PATTON ApbAms, IV is currently with the
U.S. Army in Saigon where he is with the
procurement agency which administers all
Army contracts with U.S. and foreign firms
in South Vietnam. Patton expects to prac-
tice law in Columbia, S.C. upon his dis-
charge.

TIMOTHY A. VANDERVER, JR., after receiving his
law degree from Harvard in June, 1969, has
been practicing law in Washington, D.C. He
recently entered the military service and is

 

PAUL R. SPECKMAN, JR., 757

CLASS NOTES: 23

now assigned to the Office of the Assistant
Secretary of the Army, manpower and re-
serve affairs, in Washington.

1966

MARRIED: Topp CROWELL to Miss Setsuko
Fujimoto on May go in Tokyo, Japan.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Eric LEE SISLER, a
daughter, Emily Lee, on Aug. 31 in Lexing-
ton.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. E. STARKE SYDNOR, a
daughter, Elizabeth Louise, on Aug. 24 in
Germany.

JOHN FREEMAN expects to receive his doctor-
ate in sociology from the University of North
Carolina in June, 1971. In the meantime, he is
teaching in the department of sociology at the
University of California at Riverside.

WILLIAM S. BAKER, credit officer with the
North Carolina National Bank of Raleigh,
N.C., has had a second article published in
the Journal of Commercial Bank Lending,
published by Robert Morris Associates. Baker
joined North Carolina National Bank in
1968 after receiving his master’s degree in
business administration from the University
of North Carolina. This is the second time
that Baker has won the Robert Morris As-
sociates’ award in competition, on case prob-
lems and special loan situations, sponsored by
their Carolinas-Virginia chapter.

ALAN D. Morris, after receiving his M.B.A.
from Wharton Graduate School of Finance
and Commerce, is now associated with Mer-
chants Associated Retail Systems, Inc. in At-
lanta.

1967

ANDREW LUPTON is participating in a Wood-
row Wilson Administrative Internship Pro-
gram at Central State University in Ohio. He
is assistant to the dean of the School of
Business. ‘The program is designed to provide
developing institutions with well-trained man-
agement executives.

1968

MARRIED: W. Tom INGOLD to Catherine An-
nelle White on June 13 in Cheraw, S.C.
Among the groomsmen were VAN PATE, 71,
PETER STROHM, 68, BREWSTER COCKRELL, ’68,
ANDY JACKSON, ’68, and DAvip INGOLD, ’72. In-
gold is now in an M.B.A. program at the
University of Virginia.

After a year at the Virginia Theological
Seminary, W. S. BLAIR withdrew and is now
working in the Alexandria (Va.) Redevelop-
ment and Housing Authority.

SAMUEL PRESTON is participating in a Wood-
row Wilson Administrative Internship Pro-
gram at Prairie View A&M College in Texas
as assistant to the business manager.

Dow Jones and Co., Inc. has named W. GIL-
BERT FAULK, JR. aS labor relations manager.
Dow Jones publishes the Wall Street Jour-
nal, Barron’s, and the National Observer, and
operates both domestic and foreign business
and financial news services.

 

 

Aas CLASS NOVES

An Army intelligence officer in Vietnam until
May, 1970, W. Curis HART is now attending
Florida State University Law School. He was
married on Sept. 4 to Jodee Groner of Pensa-

cola, Fla.
1969

MARRIED: Joun E. PassavantT, III to Sue
Carol Watson on July 25 in Lexington, Va.
Passavant is currently stationed at the Quan-
tico Marine Base.

MARRIED:. ROBERT G. CAMPBELL to Martha
Louise Dimmock on June 20, 1969. Campbell
is now in Emory’s graduate program of medi-
cal chemistry.

Admitted to the Virginia Bar in September,
1969, DaAvip LEE Ross received his commis-
sion in the U.S. Navy Judge Advocate Gen-
eral Corps. Lt. Ross is presently stationed at
the Naval Base in Charleston, S.C.

1970

J. MartTIn Bass and Harry H. HILt, III are
on the faculty of the McCallie School in Chat-
tanooga, Tenn.

Mossy PeErrow, III is law clerk to Justice
Alex M. Harman, Supreme Court of Ap-
peals of Virginia.

In memoriam
1903 |

Farris A. SAMPSON, a resident of Louisville,
Ky., died on Aug. 19. Sampson was in in-
vestment management for many years.

1904

JAMES WILLIAM HARMAN, an attorney from
Tazewell, Va., died July 28. He was com-
monwealth’s attorney in ‘Tazewell County
from 1912 to 1920 and was attorney for the
town of Tazewell for several years. Harman
was active in the coal business in south-
west Virginia and southern West Virginia,
and he served as president and director of
various coal companies. He served several
terms as a member of the town council, and
for years was a member of the School Trustee
Electoral Board. He was at one time chair-
man of the County Finance Board.

1908

ABRAM D. SOMERVILLE, an attorney from Boli-
var County, died in Cleveland, Miss. on Oct.
7. A veteran of World War I and II, he re-
tired from the U.S. Air Force in 1948. He
practiced law in Cleveland since 1912.

1909

CHARLES IRVING CAREY, an attorney from St.
Petersburg, Fla., died June 7. A member of
the St. Petersburg Bar Association and its
president in 1928, Carey was also a member
of the state legislature in 1933.

191]

L. L. Humpuries, banker and leader in busi-

ness and civic ventures, died in Duncan, Okla.
on Sept. 28. Humphreys was chairman of the
board of the Security National Bank &
Trust Co., an institution with which he be-
came associated in 1921. Humphreys played
a key role through the bank in the forma-
tion in 1924 of the Halliburton Oil Wells
Cementing Company; in the development of
several Stephens County Oil Fields, includ-
ing the Rich Deep Velma Field formation;
in the establishment of Safeway Airlines; and
in the successful efforts of the Wild Horse
Flood Control Association.

1913

ROBERT EDWARD ROYALL, retired information
officer for the Bureau of Public Roads, died
Sept. 29 in Washington, D.C. Royall retired
in 1957 after 40 years of service. In 1921, he
was named assistant to the chief of publica-
tions. He received a special commendation for
meritorious service from the Bureau in 1942,
and, in 1951, the U.S. Department of Com-
merce, which at that time included the Bur-
eau, presented him the Silver Medal. Royall
also served as instructor of civil engineering
at George Washington University.

HENRY EDWIN PEEPLES, retired executive of

McLain, Peeples, & Strickland, an insurance.

and real estate firm in Atlanta, died Oct. 22.
After several years with a telephone company
and two years with the Retail Credit Co.,
Peeples returned to Decatur, Ga. in 1922, and
since that time has been in the general in-
surance and real estate business.

1915

NICHOLSON B. ADAMS, a member of the ro-
mance language faculty of the University of
North Carolina for more than 40 years, died
in October. Adams was a well-known profes-
sor of Spanish, and in 1965 went to Spain
to receive an honor from the Royal Academy

of Cordova.
1920

MELVILLE B. PAYNE, city registrar, died Aug.
g in Portsmouth, Va. Payne was assistant
cashier at the First National Bank of Ports-
mouth from 1918 until 1929. He later was
auditor for the state of Virginia until he was
employed in 1935 by Allied Mills, where he
remained until his retirement in 1963. Payne
was secretary of the City Electorial Board for
15 years, and he was an organizer of the
Portsmouth Assembly.

1924

JAMEs ARTHUR Woop, former legal advisor to
the Reconstruction Finance Corp., died in
July, 1970. Wood served as W&L class
agent for many years.

1927

JoHN N. GARBER, JR., an executive of the A.
J. Beford Shoe Co., Inc. of Lititz, Pa. for over
30 years, died Aug. 7.

1928

RuHyDON C. LATHAM, an attorney from Jack-
sonville, Fla., died July 6. Latham, a Navy

lieutenant commander during World War II,
was a former member of the Jacksonville
city council. He also served as class agent for
the annual W&L alumni fund campaign.

1930

E. WATKINS EWELL, SR., an attorney from
Dyersburg, Tenn., died Aug. 2. Ewell was
chairman of the board of First Federal Sav-
ings & Loan Association, and he was a mem-
ber of both the American and ‘Tennessee
Bar Associations.

GEORGE FREDERICK ASHWORTH, a retired Army
colonel and chairman of the Orange County
Board of Zoning Appeals, died Oct. 2. Ash-
worth was a realtor and operated a farm near
Orange, Va. He was a former mem-
ber, director, and president of the Madison
County Farm Bureau, former president of
the Piedmont Board of Realtors, and for-
mer chairman of the education committee
of the Virginia Farm Bureau Federation.

193]

JoHN ALEXANDER VEECH, former town man-
ager of Lexington, Va. and superintendent of
buildings and grounds at Washington and
Lee, died Sept. 6 in Hawaii. Veech was an
assistant professor of engineering at Wash-
ington and Lee for nine years, before enter-
ing the service in 1942. He became a lieuten-
ant commander in the Civil Engineering
Corps of the U.S. Navy, and was later direc-
tor of planning in the district public works
office for the 14th Naval District in Pearl

Harbor.
1932

JuLIAN HEYwarp BAILeEy died Oct. 23 in At-
lanta, Ga. A veteran of World War II, Bai-
ley lived for the past 11 years in Atlanta and
was associated with the Small Business Ad-
ministration. He was formerly employed by
the Chemical Bank of New York City and
the American Security and Trust Co. in

Washington.
1935

Attorney Davin Scotr MACDONALD, Jr. of
Durant, Okla. died Sept. 3. MacDonald was
a member of the Oklahoma Bar Association,
the American Trial Lawyers Association, and
the National Association of Claimants Com-
pensation Attorneys.

1940

WILLIs M. BALL, II, long-time resident and
real estate businessman in Jacksonville, Fla.,

died Sept. 8.
1950

FRED SWINTON, former vice president of the

Farm Bureau Insurance Services in Des

Moines, Iowa, died Aug. 7.

1958

DONALD L. HOLCOMBE, manager of the Lan-
ford Broadcasting Co. and radio station
KALB of Alexandria, La., died Sept. 1. Hol-
combe received his degree in radio and tele-
vision from the University of Southern Cali-
fornia. He worked for the Alexandria Broad-
casting firm for five years.

SN

GENERAL
LEE'S
COLLECE

«ca The Rise and Growth of
i Washington and Lee
University

OLLINGER

CRENSHAW

 

It is the historian’s work at its very
best, an accurate record Of the
struggles of a great university, show-
ing how far the beginnings, how diffi-
It the road, how worthy the pro-

 
  

—Richmond News-Leader

‘iis a good history. . . . Dr. Cren-
shaw writes well about an institution
\ for which he obviously has a deep
affection.

—Chattanooga News-Free Press

No similar efforts which come to
mind, including Morison on Har-
yard, certain centennial and _bicen-
-tennial products, and more modern
| studies, surpass its merits as the story
of an educational institution.

e —Petersburg Progress-Index

This book has deep meaning
for everyone who has shared the
Washington and Lee experience.

For all, it is an important
record of the development of one
of the nation’s great institutions.

Be sure to obtain a first edition copy.

Fill in and mail the attached

order form today.

THE RISE AND GROWTH
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

by Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw
Professor of History

Published by Random House,
New York

Price: $10.00

This book may have come as a bless-
ing to revive the great spirit of
Washington and Lee. There has never
been more to be proud of on the Lex-
ington campus—the book makes this

clear. —Charleston News and Courier

The account is concise, yet rich in de-
tail, with frequent touches of subtle
humor. ...°: Phe excellence: ot tits
volume fully justifies the enthusiasm
with which it has already been re-

ceived. —Lexington News-Gazette

A pleasing, witty style and excellent
use of quotations enliven the book;
descriptions of student activities and
vignettes of important persons are
particularly interesting.

—The Journal of Southern History

The history of the college is intricately
related to the history of the country
itself, its prosperity, wars, depressions,
changes in attitudes and in manners.
Consequently, General Lee’s College
is a volume that will interest both
friends of the college and those read-
ers who are interested in Southern
and American history.

—Richmond Times-Dispatch

Alumni of Washington and Lee will
appreciate General Lee’s College
most. It will give pleasure and fur-
nish important insights to all who
appreciate the heritage of our state,
region, and nation as well as the es-
sential role of higher education in
our efforts to cope with this time of
turmoil. —Roanoke Times

ORDER FORM

THE BOOKSTORE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me

copy(ies) of General Lee’s College by Dr. Ollinger

Crenshaw, at $10.00 each. (Include 75 cents handling charges for each copy

purchased).

 

Name

 

Address

 

Payment of $ is enclosed.

Zip Code

THE MCCORMICK LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIV
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON VA

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 24450

 

 

FOR SALE IN LIVING COLOR

A new full color photograph of the Washington College Group, Wash-
ington and Lee University, is now available for only $2.00 each, includ-
ing postage and handling. The photograph (shown above in black and

white) is 15 by 21 inches overall and is ready for framing.

Address your order and check to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,

Lexington, Virginia 24450.

c

