eae

 

 

 

 

EIGHT DAYS IN MAY

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNUS

VOLUME 45 NUMBER 3 JUNE 1970

CONTENTS

1, Eight Days in May
11. Trustees’ Statement
12. A Free University Forum
13. Commencement: A Reaffirmation
16. Campus News
22. Athletics
24. Estrada’s View from MIT
26. Clarke Heads Alumni
27. Chapter News
28. Class Notes

COVER

The University’s relative immunity from student
unrest ended during the early days of May when the
campus became a rallying point for anti-war protests.
For a full report on “Eight Days in May,” including
a statement from the Board of Trustees, see pages |
through 12.

EDITOR: William C. Washburn, ’40
MANAGING EDITOR: Romulus T. Weatherman

ASSOCIATE EDITOR AND PHOTOGRAPHER:
A. Michael Philipps, ’64

EDITORIAL ASSISTANT: Mrs. Joyce Carter

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC::
Charles F. Clarke, Jr., 38, President

Emil L. Rassman, '41, Vice-President

William C. Washburn, ’40, Secretary

Richard H. Turrell, 49, Treasurer

BOARD OF DIRECTORS: Upton Beall, ’51; Joe F.
Bear, 33; Charles F. Clarke, Jr., 38; T. Hal Clarke, ’38;
A. Christian Compton, ’50; William H. Hillier, °38;
S. L. Kopald, Jr., 43; Dr. J. Peter Muhlenberg, ’50; Ed-
ward H. Ould, ’29; Emil L. Rassman, 741; Beauregard A.
Redmond, ’55; Richard H. Turrell, ’49.

Published in February, April, June, August, October, and
December by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms
3579 should be sent to bh beae oe Same and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage paid at
Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing privileges
at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP as required by Act of Con-
ie of Aug. 24, 1912, as amended by the Acts of March 3,
933, July 2, 1946 and June 11, 1960: The Washington and Lee
Alumnus is owned by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., and is entered _as second class matter at the Post
Office in Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001. William C. Washburn
is editor and business manager. His address is Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450. There are no
bond, mortgage, or other security holders. The average num-
ber . capiee of each issue during the 12 preceding months
was 12,

\

Our editorial was excerpted from the report of Fred
Bartenstein, Jr., upon his completion on May 9 of a four-
year term on the Alumni Board of Directors, two years of
which he served as president of the Alumni Association.

We look outside and see pressures on all private col-
leges increasing. Costs go up and tuition must be raised.
Fewer students can afford to attend. Sources of student
aid that can maintain diverse student bodies become
scarce. State schools, two-year community colleges, and
junior colleges improve and grow in popularity. As if
that weren’t enough, candidates for college today, nearly
all of them, insistently seek a measure of the current in-
volvement and style of their contemporaries. Many seek
the excitement of urban centers, stimulus of coeducation,
and large flexibilities. Some of this is naivete and is tran-
sitory, but all of it isn’t. Large elements are maturity.
None of it can be wished away.

Members of boards, staffs and faculties, alumni—de-
dicated, faithful, some of a mind that all else may change
but we shall stay the same—aren’t the masters. ‘The mas-
ters are the students of the future with their simple
votes... . to attend or not attend the University.

In this Chapel at this moment, with all these years of
tradition behind us, this seems a far cry from General
Lee. But it really isn’t.

General Lee faced a very new world for him. He
walked with dignity into the future here in Lexington.
He addressed new student needs. Those needs were no
longer merely classical learning. He instituted courses in
the applied sciences and initiated the idea of the School
of Commerce. He planted the seed for teaching jour-
nalism. Everything he did was in tune with accepting
new challenges.

“Hark back to Lee,’ we may say, thinking of a better
day. But whoever or whatever it is we hark back to with
that in mind wasn’t really Lee.

In facing new needs of students, discerning the real
ones from the clamor and demand, and accommodating
to them, we are acting in Lee’s tradition. If you keep
returning to the campus, as we have, you get the feeling
that President Huntley and his faculty and staff are try-
ing very hard to make the needed accommodations and
retain the essential strength and character of the school.
And that they are being backed by the University Board.

The underlying question remains nonetheless.

In the final analysis, it may be the alumni themselves,
their ability to be flexible and open-minded, and their
determination that this University shall survive, who de-
cide whether the obstacles can be overcome, and that
those who have General Lee’s old job can continue to
build a great institution here.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Between a Rock
And a Hard Place--
Eight Days in May

What some students refer to as “Eight Days in May’”’
put the University for a time, in President Huntley’s
words, ‘between a rock and a hard place.”

The “rock” was a student-sponsored request, endorsed
overwhelmingly in a student referendum, to close, in ef-
fect, the school for the remainder of the year so that stu-
dents might be unencumbered to express their concern
over the war in Southeast Asia and other problems con-
fronting American society.

The “hard place” was the challenge that this request
presented to the faculty, who recognized the intensity of
the students’ concern but had to consider the responsibil-
ity of the University to preserve the integrity of its edu-
cational mission and avoid any compromise of academic
standards.

The faculty resolved the dilemma by declining the
student request and making concessions to allow stu-
dents on an individual basis to participate in anti-war
activities and discussions. The faculty action insured that
no credit would be awarded for unevaluated work. And
classes as well as other University activities continued to
the end of the year with a minimum of disruption.

Many students initially viewed the faculty’s response
to their petition as a betrayal and called for a more di-
rect confrontation with University authority. But when
it was made clear that the faculty’s action was final, talk
of resistance subsided, and there arose a general realiza-
tion among students that they were attacking the Univer-
sity instead of the problems that gave rise to their con-
cern.

Thereafter, many students turned their attention and
energy to participating in a “free university forum,” a
non-credit series of seminars and discussions on the im-
plications of the war in Indochina and other national
and social issues—a program authorized by the faculty
and open to anyone who wished to participate.

The “Eight Days in May” that led to the situation
sketched above stemmed from an extensive, diverse, and
complex background having little direct relation to day-
to-day events on the Washington and Lee campus. Most
Americans are aware of the student unrest that has be-
come almost universal throughout the country. The roots
of this unrest have been analyzed and reanalyzed by
both public and private agencies and the findings pub-
lished and debated. One of the latest studies was con-
ducted by the American Council on Education. The find-
ings showed the issues to be as complex as ever. “There

CAMPUS :1

are no magic wands, no silver bullets, no how-to-do-it kits
for halting campus unrest,” the study committee said.
“Those who seek simple solutions to these complex prob-
lems will be disappointed with this report.” And it has
been well reported how the sending of American troops
into Cambodia and the deaths of four students at Kent
State University gave students on many campuses new
catalysts for their protests.

The Chronicle of Higher Education reported that the
combination of Cambodia and Kent State resulted in the
most wide-spread campus unrest in the history of Ameri-
can higher education. Students at more than 400 colleges
went on strike, often peacefully but sometimes with vio-
lent results. At least 200 institutions were shut down at
some point, and several remained closed for the rest of
the year.

In these circumstances, Washington and Lee students
are naturally influenced by campus unrest elsewhere and
are affected by the many ingredients contributing to it.
President Huntley has pointed out that Washington and
Lee is not and cannot be insulated “from the trends of
our time’ nor “from the restlessness of the young men

 

“Eight Days” began Tuesday evening, May 5, with a Lee Chapel
rally that eventually drew between 400 and 500 students.

 

 

 

2; CAMPUS

who come to us as students.” Nevertheless, Washington
and Lee has been spared the most ugly manifestations of
studnet discontent, and at no time during the events of
May did Washington and Lee students resort to violence
or other disruptive tactics.

There had existed at Washington and Lee for some
time groups of students deeply concerned about the war
in Southeast Asia and social ills involving poverty, rac-
ism, pollution, and the quality of American life, and
some of these students might be characterized as being
radical in their views. Several of them attended the May
Day rally at Yale University, where nationwide campus
strikes were advocated. The expansion of the war into
Cambodia and the Kent State deaths inspired them to
take some action on the Washington and Lee campus.
‘They announced a rally to be held in front of Lee Cha-
pel on the evening of Tuesday, May 5.

During the day, President Huntley issued a message
in which he called for “rational thought and demeanor
at a time when it is so easy to yield to irrational attitudes
and behavior.” He also said: “The barriers that threaten
to divide us as a nation must not find their counterpart
in barriers dividing us as a community. I refer to the bar-
riers behind which men retreat in intellectual and moral
isolation when they have somehow convinced themselves
of the infallible correctness of their own views and the
base hypocrisy of all others, an isolation which is char-
acterized by a fear of sharing one’s deepest convictions
with any save those who are known to agree. I know that
this kind of isolation already is growing among factions
on this campus. I know also that it can become an epi-
demic and that disease that accompanies it could be
incurable.”

The Tuesday evening rally attracted between 400 and
500 students. The assembly was orderly. Several Wash-
ington and Lee students spoke, and so did a student from
the University of Virginia invited to the rally by W&L
students. The speakers called for a strike against class
attendance the next morning so that students would be
free to attend a rally at the University of Virginia at
which Jerry Rubin, a defendant in the “Chicago Seven”
trial, and William Kunstler, attorney for the defendants,
were to speak. At no point did any of the speakers advo-
cate a resort to violence. They explained that the student
picket lines to be formed the next morning would be a
passive expression of student convictions against the war.

President Huntley appeared at the rally and in brief
remarks explained that his message to students that
morning was not directed against the rally or the partici-
pants but toward the growing divergent attitudes within
the student community. He urged the group to show
moderation, praised the orderliness of the rally and ex-
pressed confidence that orderliness would continue to
prevail. ‘““My sole function—and the sole one to which I
am currently dedicated—is this campus, its effectiveness,
its spirit, and its community,” he said. And he added: “I

  

 

Up to 4o students picketed the Colonnade Wednesday morning,
May 6, and no effort was made to block other students
from attending classes.

call on you, whatever faction of the student body you
identify with, to prevent the growth of the kinds of bar-
riers I referred to in that message this afternoon. It can
be done. It requires a great effort of will to share deep
convictions with those who may not share them with
you—an effort of will that is indeed the core of what a
liberal arts institution is all about. It is a hard concept
to articulate. It does not lend itself to sloganeering. It
cannot be played on an organ to the response of a crowd.
If it were easier to articulate, easier to sloganeer about,
you would hear us talk more about it. It is a concern
which you must share with us, and I am convinced that
you do.”

The next morning, Wednesday, May 6, up to 40 stu-
dents, carrying crosses and yelling “strike,” picketed
along the Colonnade. They made no effort to block stu-
dents from attending class, and in fact class attendance
as a whole on that morning exceeded the previous day.
Many students opposed to the strike responded by wear-
ing coats and ties that morning and encouraged others
to do the same.

 

 

The picketing lasted about two hours, and around
10 a.m. the pickets disbanded and went to Charlottes-
ville. In all, an estimated 200 Washington and Lee stu-
dents attended the rally at the University of Virginia.

The extent of the influence of the Charlottesville
rally on subsequent events at Washington and Lee is
difficult to assess. Ihe consensus was that Jerry Rubin
“turned off’ many students while Kunstler won some
student respect for his views. At any rate, it is generally
conceded that the Charlottesville rally did intensify the
concern already ‘“‘smouldering’” in many moderate stu-
dents and did influence them to join in some concerned
action to express that concern.

Late that Wednesday night, Francis M. Lawrence,
president-elect of the student body, who had gone to
Charlottesville, and Staman Ogilvie, a member of the
Student Body Executive Committee, went to see Marvin
C. Henberg, president of the student body, and reported
that “a lot of people were mad and hopped up.” Hen-
berg and Lawrence decided then that something should
be done to “channel these energies.” Their decision was
to call a student assembly at which several proposals
might be discussed by the students.

On the morning of ‘Thursday, May 7, several students,
including some who had engaged in the picketing and
had gone to Charlottesville, met with President Huntley
and told him that Washington and Lee’s academic pro-
gram held little for them in comparison with national
issues. They asked for some special dispensation that
would allow them to participate more fully in the na-
tional student movement. They told the President there
was no organization behind the request and that only
about 100 students felt that way. No threats were express-
ed or implied.

The President called a meeting of the Faculty Execu-
tive Committee and conveyed the student request to the
members. The committee, after discussing the proposal,
decided to call a special faculty meeting for that evening.

Meanwhile, between 75 and 100 students gathered in
the University Center Cockpit (the tavern) during the
afternoon, and again that night, and engaged in pro-
longed discussion about the situation in Southeast Asia
and the Kent State tragedy. These meetings were infor-
mal gatherings known as “rap sessions” and were con-
sidered to be preliminary to the official student assembly
called by Henberg for Friday, at which it was believed
several proposals would be discussed.

It was at this point that the course of events became
somewhat confused. Henberg said later that “the fact
that no one really knows what happened” and that “at
least 40 things happened at one time” indicate the frus-
tration involved in the events.

Henberg, who saw his role as a liaison between the
students and the faculty and administration, said ensuing
events showed “how things never work out the way you
expect them to.” It was his understanding that the ses-

CAMPUS 23

sions in the Cockpit, at which students of every shade of
thinking were present and could say anything they wish-
ed, were to come up with several ideas or proposals that
could be talked about at the student assembly.

“I never thought that anybody would reach any kind
of unanimity on any sort of resolution. I always looked
upon it as an exorcising device to give the student body a
chance to work out the frustration. Very seldom could I
see any coherence to what was going on, but I could see
the need to get it out.”

Lawrence reported, too, that he expected a variety of
ideas to come out of the “rap sessions” that could be
presented to the student body.

But out of these student discussions came a proposed
resolution calling for closing the University as of May
11. This would have involved cancellation of all classes
and examinations and the substitution of seminars and
discussion groups on a University-wide basis to explore
the economic, political, and philosophical ramifications
of the Indochina war and other national issues.

The student decision was reached while the special
faculty meeting was in progress Thursday night. Hen-
berg and Lawrence were present at the faculty meeting
to present the request of the students wanting to leave
the University. ‘They did not have full knowledge, nor
did the faculty, of what the 200 to 300 students were
doing in the Cockpit and at other gatherings around the
campus.

In its meeting, the faculty reached agreement on a
motion which permitted students to defer regular class
work and examinations for the remainder of the current
semester and to absent themselves from the campus. The
faculty also approved a motion calling for faculty mem-
bers to design voluntarily and sponsor on-campus semi-
nars and discussion groups dealing with topics of current
national interest. This was the genesis of the “free uni-
versity forum,” the nature of which is described else-
where in this magazine.

The text of the motion:

The faculty has been made aware that there are stu-
dents on our campus who feel strongly that they should
not and cannot participate effectively in Washington
and Lee’s academic program during the balance of the
current sess'on because of the sense of immediate con-
cern and fervor they feel about major national issues.
Notwithstanding the depth of this feeling of some stu-
dents, the faculty does not believe that Washington and
Lee’s classes should be suspended or its educational
responsibilities abandoned. In response to the requests
it has received, the faculty does take the following ac-
tion:

A student who as a matter of conscience wishes to ab-
sent himself from, but remain enrolled in, Washington
and Lee must state his intention by letter to the Faculty
Executive Committee, at which time he will receive “I”
[incomplete] grades in his current courses. If the incom-
plete work and examination of the courses are made up

4; CAMPUS

 

 

hep thse tpapaangh iit

 

SS

Student Body President Swede Henberg called assembly on Friday, May 8, to discuss a student resolution for suspending classes.
After discussions for and against the proposal, Henberg postponed vote until following Monday.

 

«<
~_

> »

Po

= ' % =

 

by September 30, 1970, the “I” grade will be changed
to the grade earned. If the “I” grade is not removed by
September 30, 1970, it will be recorded as an “F.”

The next day, Friday, May 8, the student body as-
sembly, called by Henberg, was held on the front lawn
to present and discuss the student resolution for sus-
pending classes. Henberg said later that he felt obligated,
since he and Lawrence had decided to have the Cockpit

meetings, to present the student resolution that came out.

of those meetings. He said, too, looking back on it, that
he thinks it was a mistake although “I think it was good
that the (Cockpit) meetings were held because it kept
things going in constructive channels.”

At the student assembly, students spoke both for and
against the proposal. There was some sentiment for put-
ting the resolution to an immediate vote, but the students
decided to delay the vote until the following Monday
to allow themselves time to discuss the  resolu-
tion and its implications. Henberg said later he took on
himself the refusal to allow an immediate vote that day.
And as discussion continued at the meeting, individuals
requested the resolution be amended to provide that stu-
dents wishing to do so could continue their current
course of study by arrangement with their respective pro-
fessors.

After the student assembly, many Washington and
Lee students—estimates ranged up to 250—journeyed to
Washington where they participated in the anti-war
demonstrations there over the weekend.

During that weekend, alumni were on campus for
annual class reunions, and many alumni were present at
the student assembly on Friday. Fred Bartenstein, alumni
association president, congratulated the students on the
responsible manner in which the discussions were being
carried out. Throughout the weekend, students and
alumni talked informally and extensively at the Alumni
House and elsewhere on campus about the student pro-
posal and their convictions about the war and other na-
tional issues.

Saturday, May 9, was normal in nearly all respects.
Alumni reunions and Law Day activities proceeded with-
out incident. At the annual meeting of the Washington
and Lee Alumni Association, President Huntley was
given an ovation for his handling of the situation and for
his leadership of the University in all respects.

Fred Bartenstein, the outgoing alumni president,
said: “If you keep returning to the campus as we have
been doing, you get the feeling that President Huntley
and his faculty and staff are trying very hard to make the
needed accommodations and to retain the essential
strength and character of the school, and that they are
backed by the University Board. The underlying ques-
tion remains, nevertheless. In the final analysis, it may be
the alumni themselves—their ability to be flexible and
open-minded in their determination that this University
shall survive—who decide whether the obstacles can be

CAMPUS <5

overcome, and that those who have General Lee’s old
job can continue to build a great institution here.”

Charles F. Clarke, Jr., the incoming alumni president,
said: “You know these are times of crises, and I didn’t
realize it so much until I came down here . . . I admire
brave men, and I admire courageous men who stand up
to difficult situations, and one of those men I admire
very much is Robert Huntley. He came to our meeting
(alumni board) yesterday after 24 hours of sleepless en-
deavor in an attempt to bring reason and understanding
into a group of college students whom I think later ex.
hibited that reason and that understanding . . . I think
he is a brave man, and I think he is a good man, and I
think we have a duty as alumni to let the rest of the
alumni know that we stand behind him.”

On the morning of Sunday, May 10, a memorial serv-
ice was held in the University Center for the students
killed at Kent State. A rally in support of the student
resolution was held in the Freshman Dormitory quad-
rangle. And students on both sides of the issue of closing

the University campaigned for support.

Also on May 10, the outgoing and incoming Student
Body Executive Committees met in joint session and en-
dorsed the student resolution, saying the endorsement
was made “with the understanding that explicit in the
resolution a respect for those students wishing to con-
tinue their course of study is affirmed.”

The Executive Committee gave the following reasons
for its action:

I, It is our belief that the best interests of educa-
tion will be served rather than hindered by the can-
cellation of normal classes of instruction. The air of
great concern which has pervaded this campus for the
last several days, regardless of political philosophies,
has made concentrated and serious study impossible.

2. It is our feeling that the United States is in a
period of extreme difficulty and that our normal activi-
ties are no longer adequate to meet the challenges of
the times. It is our belief that the restructuring of the
University in the final days of the academic year of
1969-70 will offer an Opportunity to all students of
Washington and Lee to better approach the problems of
our times.

On Monday, May 11, the students voted. The text
of the proposal as it appeared finally on the ballot was:

Whereas: We the students of Washington and Lee
desire to express our concern over the present war in
Indochina, we intend to join with our fellow students
in this country by closing Washington and Lee as of
May 11, 1970.

Through whatever channels the faculty deems neces-
sary and with all possible haste we urge that the follow-
ing be implemented:

I. Declare all classes cancelled retroactive to May
6, until the fall of 1970 and direct the University to-
wards the crisis in this country.

BELO

 

©: CAMPUS

2. As a substitute for classes, students, teachers, and
others interested will use the facilities in the Univer-
sity to conduct seminars and hold discussions open to
everyone on the economic, political, philosophical, socio-
logical, etc., ramifications of the Indochina war.

In addition, it is hoped that the educational experi-
ences can aid in exploring other problems—present and
potential—facing our country and our world.

‘Whereas classes will have ended as of May 6, 1970,
it will be up to the individual student to arrange for
grades on the following basis: A student may opt for
(1) continuing his current courses of study by arrange-
ment with his respective professors on an individual
basis, (2) receiving grades in his present P/F (Pass-Fail)
and letter combination, or receiving all P/F (Pass-Fail)
on work completed as of May 6, 1970.

Graduating seniors will not be deemed to have com-
pleted their requirements for graduating until June 5,
1970.”

The balloting lasted most of the day. Of 1,367 stu-
dents eligible to vote, 1,319 did so. The outcome was
1,065 for the resolution and 254 against.

This was certainly an overwhelming vote for some-
thing, but few people, not even the students close to the
campaign, agreed on just what that something was.

Henberg, who voted against the resolution and who
had insisted on giving the student body time to deliber-
ate the proposal, said he did not foresee the “incredible
political push—it was masterful—to get the vote out on
that thing . . . it became a propaganda thing. It was
pushed for a variety of reasons. So what you came up
with was a confused, contradictory resolution—a fact
which I was aware of all the time.”

Lawrence, who favored the resolution, conceded that
the resolution was too loosely worded and subject to a
variety of interpretations. Although the resolution was
amended so that the University would not be really
closed, the word “‘closed’”’ remained in the resolution, he
said, and that ‘“‘was a tactical blunder.” Still he felt that
this failing was insufficient grounds “to say that the
resolution meant nothing.”

Henberg’s analysis of the reasons students could find
to vote for the resolution seems to be as good as any:

Students would have voted for the resolution if they
felt that a symbolic gesture of the entire student body
was important in the light of widespread concern over
the war and other issues. Henberg called this the most
noble reason, and one with which he could sympathize.

Students were being told to vote for it if they wanted
an extension of the pass/fail option. Henberg said he
could not sympathize with the pass/fail option unless all
work had been completed. Such an option on uncom-
pleted work, he said, would ask professors to compromise
themselves, ask the University to lie, and amount to a
dissolution of academic freedom.

Students were being told to vote for the resolution
just as an expression of an opinion, along these lines:

“You don’t have to worry about it because the faculty
is going to decide anyway. It’s in their hands, so just
give them an expression of opinion.”

Students were also being told, ‘Well, this isn’t say-
ing anything politically one way or another. If you’re in
favor of the war you can vote in favor of this resolution
because that gives you a chance to get out and work; too.”

And some students voted for it because they just
wanted to get out of the University and perhaps some
work.

Lawrence, on the other hand, felt that only a few
students voted for the resolution because they wanted
the University closed in the strongest sense of the word—
that the vast majority of “yes” votes were a request to the
faculty to do a “‘little more than they had done... to
encourage people to find out more about the situation
in America.” He said he did not regard the resolution as
an affront to the faculty, but another proposal.

Henberg, in explaining his negative vote, said he
thought what the faculty had already done was a reason-
able response to a reasonable request and he was suspici-
ous of the reasons being given for voting for the resolu-
tion. He said he wanted to minimize the idea of con-
frontation and “had an eerie feeling all along” that a
large vote for the resolution would be interpreted as a
confrontation.

“I think what my role should have been was one of
communicating in a better way than I did to the student
body exactly what was happening,” he said.

The majority of students anticipated that the faculty
would take notice of what appeared to be an overwhelm-
ing student sentiment for closing the normal academic
program at Washington and Lee, and most expected the
faculty to endorse this expression of student opinion in
some manner.

So it was that at a second special faculty meeting the
night of Monday’s referendum President Huntley, draw-
ing on an old south Georgia expression, characterized
the University as being “between a rock and a hard
place.”

Deliberations of the faculty are confidential. But it
can be reported that the faculty, after hearing Henberg’s
analysis of the vote and President Huntley’s appraisal of
the situation and his opinion that the faculty should not
feel that it was under any form of threat or intimidation,
discussed at length the implications of the student resolu-
tion. The consensus was that any attempt to implement
it, with all its various options, would result eventually in
a substantive closing of the University—a step the faculty
felt it could not condone without doing irreparable
harm to the institution’s educational integrity.

At the same time, the faculty was fully cognizant of
student sentiment, and there were many expressions of
sympathy for their point of view. There was also senti-
ment for entrusting any further decisions on the matter
to the President, a responsibility the President said he

: CAMPUS <7

a

 

DE ary

 

 

i

 

| Henberg (left) and Student Body President-elect Fran Lawrence, although voting differently on resolution, were unified
in their attempts to lead “Eight Days” in constructive channels.

8 CAMPUS

was willing to assume. But the view prevailed that the
decision should remain in faculty hands.

The upshot was that the faculty, after prolonged dis-
cussion, approved the following motion, the intent of
which was to supplement its previous action of May 7:

The faculty of Washington and Lee University rec-
ognizes the referendum of the student body as a signi-
ficant and sincere expression of concern about major
national issues. In response to that referendum and in
keeping with our commitment to utilize the educational
resources of the University for the benefit of all its stu-
dents the following action will be taken:

1. In addition to holding regularly scheduled classes
and examinations, the University will utilize all avail-
able resources to conduct seminars and hold discussions
“open to everyone on the economic, political, philoso-
phical, and sociological ramifications of the Indochina
war” and “other problems—present and potential—facing
our society and our world.”

2. All members of the University community are
encouraged to participate in these additional programs.
A student who wishes to discontinue class attendance
for the purpose of more complete involvement in such
educational experiences may:

A. Accept an “I” grade now in any or all of his
current courses with the possibility of removing the
grade when work in courses has been completed, Sep-
tember 30, 1970, being the final deadline. A student
who wishes to take the “I” option in any course is asked
to submit an appropriate letter to the Faculty Execu-
tive Committee and notify the professors concerned of
his plans this week. He must give notification of his in-
tentions no later than Thursday, May 21, 1970.

B. Attend classes at his own discretion, i.e., all ab-
sence regulations are suspended from May 6 until the
beginning of the examination period.

The motion passed without a dissenting vote.

President Huntley announced after the faculty vote
that he would call a University student assembly at noon
the next day to inform students of the faculty's motion
and its significance in terms of the options it afforded.

The faculty’s decision was unpopular with many stu-
dents, and some took it as an insult. A large number of
students had gathered in Evans Dining Hall while the
faculty was meeting and heard versions of the faculty's
actions. In the words of one faculty member, it was “at
this point that the fat got as close to the fire as it ever did
in Lexington during this period.” A few faculty mem-
bers did go to the dining hall and try to explain the ac-
tions, and they were sometimes shouted at. Fran Law-
rence reported that “the taking over of Washington Hall
or something along that line” was averted only by an-
other plan which involved the boycott of classes and an
effort to submit another proposal to the faculty. It was
decided to hold another student-sponsored assembly on
the front lawn the next morning.

 

This student assembly convened at 8:45 a.m. on
Tuesday, May 12. “Strike” signs and banners had proli-
ferated on the campus overnight, and the general mood
of the students was one of defiance.

A student spokesman read a_ statement which
had been drawn up the night before by the Student Body
Executive Committee—a meeting which Henberg said
was not official because he was not present, but was
rather an informal gathering. Henberg said that by that
time many students and members of the EC felt “some-
how I had betrayed representing the student body.”

The statement read:

The faculty decision of May 11, 1970, rejecting the
student proposal is in the mind of the Executive Com-
mitee of Washington and Lee University an act of
grave irresponsibility. It is in the strongest terms pos-
sible that this body condemns the faculty decision to-
night. And we call for reconsideration of what we believe
to be an ill-advised and disrespectful action.

We further urge all concerned students to resist the
decision of the faculty resolution in the following ways:

1. The boycott of regular classes.

. Attendance of all newly scheduled seminars.
. Active participation in war concern activities.
. Non-payment of registration fees.

. Non-registration for next year’s classes.

It is our greatest desire that the student body react
to the faculty decision with the same rationality and
constructive action which has typified the events of the
last several days.

Gr Oo DO

Various student speakers supported this response and
urged students to talk individually with faculty members
in an effort to bring about a reconsideration of the stu-
dent proposal. Students were also urged to give President
Huntley a fair hearing at the noon University assembly.

Prior to that assembly, President Huntley issued the
following statement, making it clear that it was not the
text of the remarks he would make at noon:

I do not believe it can be said the faculty “rejected”
Monday’s student resolution. The faculty clearly wished
to express affirmatively that it shares the deep concern of
students on national issues and wishes to underscore
the importance of that concern in every way which is
consistent with their responsibility. The faculty intended
to accept—and I believe it is perfectly clear from the
wording the faculty used that the faculty did in fact
accept—every premise which the student resolution con-
tained in support of its position.

It can hardly be said that the faculty made no sub-
stantial changes in the policy it had adopted only last
week—a policy, incidentally, which only four days ago
was all that the students asked for.

It can hardly be said that the faculty has merely ‘re-
affirmed’ its action of Thursday. Last night’s resolution
represents a significant extension of that action in an
important respect. Of the requests contained in the stu-
dent resolution, explicit or interpreted by students as

 

 

? CAMPUS

being implied in it, the faculty turned down just one.

That one would have cancelled all academic work out-

right for anybody for any reason. I believe that imple-

menting that action would be tantamount to closing

Washington and Lee University, and closing the Univer-

sity, or taking any action which would lead to a de

facto closing of the University, would in my view and

in the view of the faculty be unfair and unwise.

I remain impressed with the reasonable and thought-
ful attitude being taken by the great majority of Wash-
ington and Lee students, who understand the substan-
tial new options given them by the faculty and who
I hope now wish to get down to the business of exer-
cising them.

At the noon assembly, President Huntley encountered
the same spirit of hostility that characterized the morn-
ing student-sponsored gathering. He met this animosity
with great personal restraint as he responded to ques-
tions and comments.

He expiained again the additional concessions the
faculty vad authorized by providing for “I” grades in
selected courses. He also made it clear that he regarded
the faculty’s action as final for this year, explaining that
final decisions had to be made so that the institution
can operate in a framework that is not constantly shift-
ing.

“If a sense of betrayal has been created in you, it was
unintentional—a matter of the head and not of the
heart,’ he said. “My call of last week which you heeded
so well for rational discussion, for unity of view, for des-
troying barriers that divide us was not intended, nor
should such a call ever be intended, to imply that such
discussion can always—or indeed should always—lead to
final agreement on all points. That’s not the purpose of
rational discussion. It is probably never its result. If I
misled you by stating that to you publicly and in private
conversation with you, as I say, it was a mistake of the
head and not the heart. I am sure this is true also of
other faculty members who talked with you in the last
few days and of student body leaders who have talked
with you in the last few days.

“I wished very much—and I must say I believe you
have succeeded in bringing this student body into a sense
of community, a sense of willingness to talk, a sense of
willingness to share deep conviction, a sense of dedication
to something higher than self—I wished very much for
that to occur; it seems to me it has occurred. If it is to be
sustained, if it is to be something from which real value
for you as individuals, for you as a group, and for this
University—something of real and lasting value—it must
be demonstrated that it is not that transitory and illu-
sory kind of unity which falls apart as soon as respon-
sible decision has to be made.”

In answer to a student’s question of why the faculty
rejected the “Pass-Fail” proposal, the President said that
neither the institution nor the students had any way of

 

 

 

 

Instructor in English Henry Sloss responds to student requests . . . .
(o hear a faculty member’s viewpoint. assessing the significance of taking such an option and

10: CAMPUS

besides such an option would be “tantamount to closing
the institution.”

One student drew cheers when he said that what the
students “had put together in five days as reasonable
men the faculty had thrown aside in one evening.” He
also asked why Washington and Lee could not do what
some of the best universities in the country were doing.

The President replied that faculty members had also
been here during the five days mentioned and were deep-
ly involved in the campus discussions. He also noted that
“perhaps in this time of pressure it is a healthy thing that
universities do not copy each other.”

The assembly ended in the nature of a stalemate, with
many students seemingly dissatisfied with the explana-
tions and desiring some reconsideration of their position
by the faculty.

But during the afternoon student leaders and spokes-
men for various student groups reassessed the situation.
That whole day of Tuesday, May 12, was characterized
by Lawrence as “one of the most fascinating days in the
history of the school.” It started on a defiant note and
ended with students resigning themselves to the situa-
tion and redirecting their energy.

Lawrence said two things happened: The student
leadership was tired and came to the realization that they
were attacking Washington and Lee. “We all didn't
want to go on with it—those of us who care about it—
and we saw that we couldn’t keep the same group of
people who voted for the resolution together. The only
leadership that could have been given to it would have
been more demonstrative . . . and we felt that we did
start this because of Cambodia, because of the domestic
American situation, and that was what is really im-
portant.”

Henberg said the leadership felt that it was being
forced into a more radical position than it really was,
that things had gone as far as they could go, that the Stu-
dent Executive Committee in pushing expectations any
further was being irresponsible.

“So it was just a realization by members that repre-
sentation did not mean going along with a transitory
emotional bent,” he said. “At some time you have to take
a stand on principle. I decided that I would take, in
some hazy sense, as my principle that of protecting the
professor’s right—and I think it is a necessary right—to
run his class the way he wants to run it. So the Executive
Committee knew it had to come back, and we voted on
Tuesday to have Phil Thompson [vice-president elect of
the student body] tell the students what the real situa-
tion was.”

Another student-sponsored assembly was held ‘Tues-
day on the lawn at 5 p.m. And at that time Thompson
told the students that to press the issue further would be
irresponsible and jeopardize the University. “No more
will be derived from attempts to reach modification,” he
said. ‘““The faculty can go no further in keeping with

their responsibility to the University. We urge that no
acts of ultimate irresponsibility result from this.”

Another student said: “Forget power politics and
get to the real issues that started this.”

Other speakers urged students to take advantage of
the options and opportunities afforded them by the fac-
ulty’s actions of May 7 and May 11, particularly full par-
ticipation in the programs of the “‘free university forum.”

With that the campus returned to normal insofar as
the conditions created by the “Eight Days in May’ per-
mitted.

A student-prepared letter, dated May 14, which was
mailed to parents summed up the situation this way:

“In the remaining days student activity and interest
will be channeled into the free seminars offered in the
evenings. Many students have accepted the faculty offer
to take ‘“Incompletes” in their courses so that they may
act more directly in the resolution of today’s problems
... It is our firm conviction that violence and coercive
action exacerbate a situation and tend only to obliterate
the real issues. Therefore, it has been our desire to main-
tain the atmosphere of concern coupled with rational
dialogue and responsible action.”

Spring registration for the 1970-71 academic year pro-
ceeded on schedule, and 82 per cent of the students regi-
stered, only slightly below the percentage of previous
years. Those who did not register this spring may regi-
ster next fall without penalty.

With the passage of the deadline on May 21 for
exercising the “I” option, 609 students had chosen to take
incompletes in all or some courses. Among these were 545
undergraduates who took “I’s” in about 1,300 courses.
But interestingly, many of these students continued to
attend class and many took their examinations. At the
end of the school year, 396 students still had 887 “I's” un-
resolved. About 80 students took “I’s’” in all courses, and
30 of these students still have all ‘‘I’s”’ which must be
made up by September go or be recorded as “F's.”

On May 14, signs appeared in the University Center
proclaiming that Washington and Lee had been desig-
nated “Southern Regional Strike Headquarters” by the
“National Strike Headquarters” at Brandeis University.
A group of Washington and Lee students, composed
largely of those who organized the first rally on May 5,
accepted an invitation from their counterparts at Bran-
deis to set up in Lexington a regional headquarters to
collect information on anti-war activities on campuses
throughout the South. The group sought and received
recognition by the Student Body Executive Committee
as a bona fide student body activity, and as such was
eligible for assignment of student office space in the
University Center.

At the same time, the Student Body Executive Com-
mittee was giving financial support from the Student
Body Fund to the “free university forum” and a campus
newsletter to promote it. There was a period of confusion

 

 

 

 

 

Following Tuesday, May 12, noon assembly, President Huntley
continued answering student questions on faculty position.

during which the newsletter appeared to be a project of
the “strike committee.” “The matter was cleared up when
the Executive Committee announced that no student
body funds were being used in support of the regional
“strike” headquarters.

With the end of the school year and the closing down
of the University Center, the Southern Regional Strike
Headquarters was moved to an apartment near the camp-
us. Except for its recognition by the Student Body Execu-
tive Committee as a student activity, the “strike center”
received no University sanction.

After the student acceptance of the faculty’s action on
May 12, the traditional year-end events on campus, in-
cluding the senior banquet and the sports awards barbe-
que, proceeded in the normal way. The “free university
forum” proved to be popular.

At this point, it is difficult for anyone to assess ac-
curately the long-range, or even the short-range, implica-
tions of the “Eight Days in May” for the future of the
University. There are nearly as many opinions and
judgments on that subject as there are people associated
with the University. Most judgments tend to be hopeful
—that out of what threatened to become a confrontation
between students and faculty and a temporary break-
down in dialogue has come a new and more meaningful
communication within the Washington and Lee com-
munity.

CAMPUS.11

 

 

A

Statement

By

The Board of Trustees

The Board of ‘Trustees of Washington
and Lee University commends the ad-
ministration and faculty of the Univer-
sity for the wise, firm, and courageous
manner in which they dealt with the
situation on our campus during the
period of unrest following the sending
of United States troops into Cambodia.

We take pride in the fact that Wash-
ington and Lee continued its educa-
tional program without interruption
and without reducing course require-
ments while at the same time making
possible the postponement of the com-
pletion of course work for those students
who, in a time of extreme tension on
many campuses, felt bound by con-
science to express their concern in ways
involving absence from classes.

The Board further commends the
student body for its adherence to orderly
procedures, in contrast with the co-
ercion and even disorder on many
campuses, and expresses its gratification
that students, although differing with
the considered judgment of the faculty
and administration, accepted such judg-
ment in good spirit and in a manner
consistent with the best traditions of
Washington and Lee.

We believe that the entire University
community both demonstrated its in-
tegrity as a seat of higher learning and
showed its sensitivity to the realities of
a critical national situation.

 

 

T2;CAMPUS

The Free University Forum:
It Had ‘Some Good Learning’

On Highly Personal Subjects

BY ROBERT S. KEEFE

Director of Public Information

?

What do people learn at a “free university,’ anyway?
Actually, just about anything.

Approached properly, a “free university” kind of
program can supplement the formal curriculum, add to it
in fields of thought which perhaps don’t lend themselves
to neat incorporation into an academic department, pro-
pose valid theories and bring out legitimate points of
view that perhaps ought not to be part of the regular,
“traditional” pattern of college education.

“Free universities” avoid imposing a higher degree of
structure than is essential — and “essential” structure
means simply having a discussion leader and a place,
nothing more. There are no “requirements,” none at all.
There are no speeches, and nobody proclaims himself a
renowned authority (like some travelling lecturers whose
ideas “are right because they are mine’).

Where more properly than at this dry sort of cocktail
party with a serious theme might you hear, and partici-
pate in, an intellectual analysis of (for instance) “Theo-
ries of Language and Social Problems’? Or ‘““The Music
of Commitment’? Or “Polarization as a Political ‘Tech-
nique’?

These are highly personal and subjective topics, ones
which surely have no place in the academic curriculum.
But they are topics which just as surely must not be
banned in the educational community.

How about “The Impact of the Indochina War on
the Ecology of Vietnam’? Dr. ‘Thomas Nye, assistant pro-
fessor of biology and a specialist on the environment,
would have some pretty significant thoughts on that. ‘The
“free university forum” is where he expressed them.

Likewise “Strategy and Tactics for Campaign Work.”
Dr. S. Todd Lowry, associate professor of economics, and
Henry Sloss, instructor in English, discussed their
ideas with students who want to work effectively and ef-
ficiently within “‘the system.’’ Another “free university”
session with a similar theme, “How Students Can Work
Within the Party Apparatus,’ was conducted by Dr. John
Winfrey, associate professor of economics, and Col. B.
McCluer Gilliam, professor of government at VMI.

There was a session on the formidable question ‘“Must
Uptopia Change?” jointly led by a professor, an associ-
ate professor and an assistant professor, all from the bio-
logy department, Drs. Cleveland Hickman, Randall Em-
mons and Thomas Nye.

The “free university’ provided an occasion for a Roa-
noke television reporter to talk with students about the
place of the media in political affairs, for a law professor
to lead an “anti-crime seminar,’ for researchers to ex-
amine the relationship between “hard” science and
politics.

‘There was one on “Pacifism, the Crusades and the
Just War,” led by the Rev. Charles Swezey, Presbyterian
chaplain to W&L students and a Woodrow Wilson
Scholar.

‘There were several panels examining who ought to
be elected to Congress this autumn, and how to go about
it. Several on the draft and alternatives to conscription
(with an emphasis on working within the legal frame-
work of Selective Service laws, incidentally).

‘There was a session on using “Universities as Poli-
tical Sanctuaries,” facing one of the thorniest problems
in the activist-type approach to problem-solving in the
academic environment.

Though it seems safe to say the “free university for-
um” was originated as a response to student distress over
the course of American policies in Vietnam and (more
particularly) Cambodia, “free university’’ events were
hardly restricted to ideas of the political Left. The entire
broad spectrum of opinion was represented, with one
well-attended session led by two student leaders of the
John Birch Society, whose topic was “The ‘Truth About
Vietnam.”

The “free university” was not single-mindedly politi-
cal, either, although the most attention was of course
given to matters of national policy. ‘There were readings
from works of literature, poems that celebrate the good-
ness of life, even a couple of combo parties of a mini-
Woodstock type.

And although set up quickly, almost overnight —
some might say even hastily — Washington and Lee’s
“free university forum” turned out to be so worthwhile
an extracurricular undertaking that most faculty and ad-
ministrators, as well as students, seem to hope the idea
hasn’t died with the close of the late academic year.

For instance, one student leader said, “I feel that the
“free university forum’ was a necessary and important
thing. It was a creative, positive, transforming experience
because it provided an opportunity for emotions to be
worked out in constructive paths. It was a kind of exor-
cising device.

“You know, I like that metaphor. It’s my favorite.
You've got a devil in you—you exorcise it. And that’s ex-
actly what the “free university” did. And I would say
that’s what the University has to find. It has to find
positive approaches to the kinds of problems that arose
in May, and I think it can be done.”

A faculty member, a leader in the “free university”’
exercise, put it this way: “Students came, faculty mem-
bers came, and some good learning took place on some
important topics.”

L
a Pie

pee

<

a
Ag

 

aes Se, SS OEE eee eee
‘ ‘ mes ‘

 

 

CAMPUS -13

Educational Vitality Reaffirmed, Huntley Tells 307 Graduates

Commencement at Washington and Lee this June was
a ceremony of reassurance and reaffirmation. ‘The sun
shone jewelly throughout the ceremonies, although rain
had been forecast. Just as always, parents began taking
pictures even before the academic procession left Wash-
ington Hall and, just as always, they didn’t stop snapping
until the President declared, ‘““This assembly is adjourn-
ed.” Just as always, the gamut of emotions was there,
from relief mixed sadness to nostalgia mixed with joy.

President Huntley added to the mood of reassurance
when he told the 301 graduating students and their fami-
lies, “I tell you that my faith in the vitality [of the pur-
poses of liberal education] is not shaken,” but is strength-
ened by what has occurred at Washington and Lee since
his inauguration 21 months ago.

BACCALAUREATE SERVICE

Other speakers joined President Huntley in sounding
a reassuring note. The Rev. John Newton ‘Thomas
(W&L, ’24), reminded his audience at the Baccalaureate
service the morning before graduation that men who
have committed themselves rationally to modifying exist-
ing institutions for the better will find God to be neither
an enemy nor an irrelevance—rather, he said, they will
find God to be their chief ally.

Dr. Thomas, professor of systematic theology at
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond and the senior
member of Washington and Lee’s Board of ‘Trustees,
urged seniors to test every supposed truth, every proposi-
tion, every principle, by applying processes of critical
thought, experimentation and the use of reason. He
pointed to the Apostle Paul’s own commitment to “choose
the good — and stay with it.”

“The luxury of non-involvement,” Dr. ‘Thomas stat-
ed, ‘is neither admirable nor, perhaps, even possible.”

To arrive at a reasoned course of action, he said, “we
must go beyond the available evidence. We must act on
faith — for we are not God.

“Let us not identify God too closely with organized
religion, with the ‘Ecclesiastical Establishment, ” Dr.
Thomas cautioned listeners who, he said, might think —
wrongly — that God blindly supports the status quo. But
when God bypasses existing institutions, when He
smashes the Establishment, Dr. Thomas added, it is “‘only
to fulfill His responsible commitment to that which 1s
2ood — good for society and good for the individual.

“If we are for the kind of change which modifies for
the better,’ he said, ‘“‘“God is not our enemy. He is not
irrelevant. He is our chief ally.”

COMMISSIONING CEREMONIES
Reserve Officers Training Corps commissioning cere-
monies took place early in the morning on Commence-

ment Day, as always. Brig. Gen. Herbert McChrystal
commissioned 44 graduating seniors, including his son
Scott, as second lieutenants. (Among the new lieutenants
were some of the students who had been most active in
the spring’s events at W&L — and two of those received
Distinguished Military Awards from Gen. McChrystal.)

VALEDICTORY ADDRESS

“We do have a timeless ideal,” Anthony M. Coyne
of Decatur, Ga., one of two graduates who earned two
bachelor’s degrees this year, said in the traditional vale-
dictory address. ““And so long as we remain willing to
adapt our actions [to] this ideal, we remain willing to
It is for this effort, in his time, that General Lee can con-
tinue to show us the way.”

Coyne interpreted campus unrest across the nation
this spring as part of a search by students for new tradi-
tions to replace outmoded habits carried over from past
eras.

He said the “progressive inquiry” being undertaken
by the student generation parallels General Lee’s own
search 105 years ago at Washington College for a new
life style to replace an old one which had become no
longer useful.

DEGREES AND HONOREES

With the traditional preface, “by virtue of the au-
thority vested in me by the Commonwealth of Virginia,”
President Huntley conferred the new Juris Doctor degree
on 37 men, the Bachelor of Science degree on 41, the
special Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry on one
man, the Bachelor of Science degree in Commerce on
44, the Bachelor of Arts degree on 146, and Bachelor of
Arts degrees in Economics or Politics on 34.

And similarly did he pronounce three eminent Vir-
ginians to be honorary alumni of Washington and Lee,
men of singular accomplishment in the judicial, aca-
demic and political worlds—Chief Judge Walter E. Hoff-
man of U.S. District Court in Norfolk (W&L, ’31), Dr.
Forrest C. Pogue, the biographer of Gen. George C.
Marshall and director of the Marshall Research Library
on the campus of VMI, and former Gov. Mills E. God-
win, described by Dean William W. Pusey as a “master
persuader” whose mission in office was to help Virginia
“achieve the fullness of its promise . . . while cherishing
its traditional glory.”

Judge Hoffman was described as a man who has
shown “judicial discernment in his decisions” even from
boyhood, beginning with his decision to leave New Jer-
sey and Pennsylvania in favor of a Washington and Lee
law education and law practice afterwards in Norfolk.
The distinguished jurist — who was mentioned as a
likely candidate for a Supreme Court nomination last

14;CAMPUS

winter and spring — is characterized by “‘distinction of
mind and... great force and courage,’ Dean Pusey said.

Dr. Pogue, “a friend and neighbor as well as a re-
markable historian,’ was honored as a scholar who is
“perceptive and acute, indefatigable in his research, gift-

9?

ed in his literary style, inventive in his methods... .

 

President Huntley with honorary alumni (l. to r.) Dr. Forrest
Pogue, Judge Walter Hoffman, and former Gov. Mills Godwin.
Earlier, some 60 graduates wore suits, directing cap and gown
rental money to scholarship fund.

 

 

SOME DIFFERENCES

Thre were differences — but differences in form, not
in substance.

Sixty graduates did not wear the traditional caps and
gowns, abandoning them not for the sake of “protest’’
(more “protestors’’ wore academic garb than not), and
not out of disrespect either for the ceremony or for the
University. Rather, they chose to exercise an option offer-
ed by the President, after consultation with the Faculty
Executive Committee, to put the cap-and-gown rental
money into the Student War Memorial Scholarship Fund
instead.

Almost half the graduates chose not to attend Bac-
calaureate the previous morning, after the Faculty Exe-
cutive Committee acted on a proposal that had been
brought up in each of several years to make Baccoloure-
ate an optional exercise — it is, after all, essentially a
religious program, and compulsion seemed not tu ve ine
best way to generate attendance at this sort of service.

There were eight students who might have graduated
but who chose not to in June, taking advantage of the
“T” option in one or more of their second-semester senior
courses. These eight will take their final exams during
the summer or in September, and will be graduated in
October.

PRESIDENT’S REMARKS

At Washington and Lee, in the nation, in the world,
there is much “we could mourn or decry or denounce,”
President Huntley said in his Commencement remarks.

“But I am not much inclined to take this occasion for
mourning or denunciation or recrimination. On the con-
trary: I am somewhat inclined to smile. This is... a
day of joy — and it is appropriate that it should be.”

And so on June 5, W&L people gathered, as Presi-
dent Huntley said, “to symbolize our respect for each
other and our dedication to the essential dignity of man
— and to pay tribute to the good things of the past and
to our hopes for the future.”

The text of the President’s address appears below.

I would point out to the graduates and their families
that by custom at Washington and Lee, the only remarks
to which this assembly is subjected are those of the Presi-
dent of the University, and that those remarks are usually
— and will be today — characterized at least by brevity.

Two years ago this Commencement Day coincided
with a time of mourning for a national leader whose
death by assassination had occurred a short time before.
Today, Commencement comes at a time when there is
much for which we could mourn. At Washington and
Lee there have been two deaths in our student body dur-
ing the course of the academic year. Death came to two
of our most beloved professors, men whose lives brought

(ees
~
¥

= ais

)
b

v
%

scene Ate, eee eek non
4
a

=
}

 

to us qualities of service which we shall never quite find
again.

Across the breadth of our nation and abroad have oc-
curred tragic deaths, the causes of which we might well
pause to mourn and perhaps to denounce. And surely
we could mourn and decry the bitterness which pervades
the soul of our nation — the bitterness which increasingly
supplants reason and which at times seems to be spiral-
ling man downward in a kind of counter-evolution to-
ward the animal state from which we are told he came.

We could decry the moral isolation which seems to
surround us and which causes us to grasp fleetingly and
desperately at any passing cause which offers a tempor-
ary illusion of unity or a short-term replacement for the
roots we have lost and for the creeds we have abandoned.
On the campus scene we could decry those pressures
which seem to push us ever closer to a situation in which
we might spend most of our time in reconciling power
centers in our midst, a situation in which the quest for
noble ideals could be supplanted by the struggle of op-
posing wills.

All these things, and more, we could mourn or decry
or denounce. Readily — and with some justification,
mixed perhaps with a kind of perverted glee — we could
proclaim that things really are in a mess.

My secretary has many good traits, one of which is
the posting around my office of little sayings which I
suspect are in part designed to keep my ego within toler-
able limits. One of these sayings reads as follows: “Show
me a man who smiles when everything goes wrong, and
I’ll show you an idiot.”

At the risk of justifying the applicability of that say-
ing, I will tell you that I am not much inclined to take
this occasion for mourning or denunciation or recrimi-
nation. On the contrary: I am somewhat inclined to
smile, and I hope that inclination on my part is not
merely because we are almost at the end of an academic
year which for some of us has been longer than for others.

As I did on that day of mourning two years ago, I
state now that this is also a day of joy — and that it is
appropriate that it should be. It is a day on which we
gather with our graduating seniors for a last time, to sym-
bolize our respect for each other and our dedication to
the essential dignity of man, and to pay tribute to the
good things of the past and to our hopes for the future.

What I wish to do is to make two simple assertions
of re-affirmation and hope — and then send you on your
way.

I have often been asked: ‘‘What is Washington and
Lee’s purpose? Where is it going?” In recent months and
weeks that question has come to me in one form or an-
other with increasing frequency, from all of this Univer-
sity’s many constituencies and from persons of varying
political and ideological persuasions. The question al-
ways makes me vaguely uneasy, even sometimes a bit
irate. The question seems to imply that in the temper

CAMPUS -115

and turmoil of these times, the traditional purpose of this
institution is a luxury we can no longer afford, that it
must somehow redirect its energy to a more immediate
and tangible cause, preferably one which is subject to
being captured in a single short slogan; that it must
choose a side in our increasingly two-sided society and go
down to the wire with it.

In my inaugural remarks I attempted to sketch in a
few words my personal ideal for Washington and Lee —
its image and its purpose. Last night I re-read that state-
ment and now I want to quote it.

I don’t know what Washington and Lee’s image is
for you, but I can, I think, suggest to you in a very few
words what its image is for me.

It is the image of an institution which unashamedly
proclaims that there is no higher goal to which a scholar
can aspire than to be a vital teacher of young men, an
institution which confidently entrusts the largest pos-
sible measure of choice and freedom to its students and
faculty, requiring conformity of no one, prizing an en-
vironment in which tolerance, integrity and respect for
others tend to prevent misidentifying independence of
thought with lack of discipline or humorless contempt

It is the image of an institution which does not wish
to cater to any particular ethnic or economic group, but
which seeks a student body and faculty where members
may share in common only the ability and the convic-
tion to learn from each other.

It is the image of an institution which takes seri-
ously the injunctions which are engraved in its official
crest, adapted, as you know, from the family coats of
arms of the two great men after whom the school is
named:

“Be not unmindful of the future.”
“Question all things.”

It is not the image of an institution which serves as
a marshalling point or strategy center from which young
men are sent forth daily to confront the sources of evil
the campus strategists identify. Rather, it is the image
of an institution which sees no priority as higher than
the search for truth and understanding from which
eventually may grow the kind of wisdom that brings
fullness to life.

What of this image?

Is this where the action is?

Or, in the strangely contemptuous tone of the more
recent idiom—is it relevant?

The only answer I know is this: If it is relevant to
lead forth the mind from the dark corners in which it
feeds on its own prejudice and arrogance and self-
righteousness — if, in short, it is relevant for there to be
truly educated men — then this image 7s relevant.

This is the re-affrmation, and I tell you that my faith
in the vitality of such a purpose is not shaken, but is
strengthened, by the events that have intervened.

I hope you share that faith.

Congratulations to each of you, and may God bless
you.

 

nnn EERE SSSR ee sk cha eibasdestnieentnnn nt ooh -

16: CAMPUS

Freshman Class Increases

A record freshman class of 390 men
will enter Washington and Lee in Sep-
tember, with one-quarter of the class shar-
ing in more than $200,000 in financial
aid, also a record figure.

The number of applications for ad-
mission was up eight per cent, to 1,250,
from a year ago, according to James D.
Farrar, director of admissions.

The University offered admission to
756 of the applicants, he said. More than
half—52 per cent—accepted the offer, up
from 47 per cent last year.

In 1969, Washington and Lee en-
rolled 364 freshmen from a field of 770
who had been offered admission. This
year, the University was able to be more
selective, offering admission to a smaller
number from a larger group of appli-
cants, with a larger proportion of offers
being accepted than a year ago, Farrar
said.

Altogether, the University will provide
$200,380 to freshmen next year through
a wide range of scholarship, direct grant,
work-study, loan, and combination pro-
grams, according to Dean John Mehl,
director of financial aid programs.

More than three-quarters of that total,
$150,935, will be in the form of direct
University grants. Federal Office of Eco-
nomic Opportunity grants will total $12,-
700, he said.

Freshmen will receive more than
$32,000 in loans next year, $18,635 in
federally sponsored National Defense
Student Loans and $13,385 in University
loans, Dean Mehl said.

Of the 390 members of the freshmen
class next fall, 101 will receive financial
assistance under one or more of the pro-
grams, he said.

The entering class will include 17
Negroes, Farrar said. Altogether, 42 ap-
plications were submitted by black stu-
dents, and 29 were offered admission, he
said. The 17 will receive financial assis-
tance and will participate fully in the
various aid programs.

Applications were received from 40
states, the District of Columbia, and a
number of foreign countries, Farrar said.
More than 20 per cent of the students
who applied were from Virginia, 284 of
the total 1,250. Large numbers of appli-
cations were also received from Mary-
land (126), Pennsylvania (90), New Jer-
sey (88), New York (76), Texas (48),
Florida (46), and North Carolina (44).

Dean Farrar said he was pleased with
the admissions picture. The eight per cent
increase in the number of applications
received and the five per cent increase
in the number of students who accepted
offers of admissions are ‘‘very healthy
signs,” he said.

The costs associated with a_ private
college as opposed to public colleges have
generated concern for the future of the
small, independent institution, and “the
figures on next fall’s entering class sug-
gest that Washington and Lee is meeting
those challenges with remarkable success,”
he said.

Included in the 1970 freshman class
will be 47 sons of alumni, Farrar said, the
largest number since 1967 when 50 sons
of alumni enrolled.

Eleven Rockbridge County area stu-
dents are included in the 1970 entering
class, and they will live at home. Fresh-
man dormitory rooms will be provided
for 360 of the 379 resident students, and
the remaining freshmen will be accommo-
dated in other University housing.

Dean Farrar said it has been custo-
mary for a small number of prospective
freshmen to change their minds about at-
tending W&L during the summer before
they enter college after originally accept-
ing offers of admission. In recent years,
that number has generally been between
12 and 15.

If that were to occur again this year,
fewer freshmen would have to be housed
apart from the freshman dormitories,
Farrar said.

The 17 Negroes who plan to enroll at
W&L this fall represent the largest group
of blacks admitted to the University in
any single year.

Dean Farrar said the increase in the
number of applications this year resulted
partly from greater recruiting efforts by
the entire admissions staff, other admini-
strative personnel, members of the fac-
ulty, and a number of students.

The University’s ability to offer sub-
stantial financial aid to students who
could otherwise not attend W&L was
another major factor in the increase, Far-
rar said.

Turner Elected by VAS

Edward F. Turner, Jr., professor of
physics and head of the department at
Washington and Lee, has been chosen
president-elect of the Virginia Academy
of Science.

Dr. Turner’s election came at the as-
sociation’s 48th annual meeting in Rich-
mond in May.

As president-elect of the VAS, he will
succeed Maurice B. Rowe, commissioner
of the Virginia Department of Agricul-
ture and Commerce, when Rowe’s term
expires next spring.

Dr. D. Rae Carpenter, head of the
physics department at the Virginia Mili-
tary Institute, was Rowe’s predecessor as
president of the VAS.

Dr. Turner has served two one-year
terms as secretary of the Academy. He is
succeeded in that capacity by Dr. Frank-
lin F. Flint of Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College.

A member of the faculty since 1957,
Dr. ‘Turner received his Ph.D. from the
University of Virginia after earning his
master’s degree from the’ Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and two bache-
lor’s degrees from Washington and Lee.

In 1969, he completed a detailed
study of the impact of modern technology
on small-college libraries, under a grant
from the Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare.

He is a member of several profes-
sional scholarly organizations, and will
take a sabbatical leave of absence next
year under a Sloan Foundation grant to
study astronomy at the University of
Virginia.

New Press Manager

Robert H. Yevich, who graduated in
June from the University, has been nam-
ed manager of the Journalism Laboratory
Press.

The announcement was made by Pro-
fessor Paxton Davis, head of the depart-
ment of journalism and communications.
The JLP is a division of that department.

Yevich has served as managing editor
and editor-in-chief of the Ring-tum Phi,
W&L’s student newspaper. He will suc-
ceed Howard Eanes, superintendent of
the JLP since July, 1969.

Eanes will return to the Roanoke
Times as assistant managing editor, the
post he held before coming to Washing-
ton and Lee a year ago.

Yevich will supervise a six-man staff
in filling almost all the University’s
printing needs, from stationery and pos-
ters to the weekly student newspaper, the
13,000 circulation alumni magazine, the
quarterly journal Shenandoah, and a num-
ber of other magazines and pamphlets,

 

 

 

The JLP is fully equipped for both
letterpress and offset printing, and serves
as a laboratory for students in W&L’s
journalism curriculum.

Edward F. Backus will continue to
serve as production manager for the JLP,
Prof. Davis said.

In addition to serving as editor-in-
chief of the student newspaper, Yevich
has been a member of Sigma Delta Chi,
the professional journalism society, since
his junior year.

He was secretary of the University’s
Publications Board and has been a Dean’s
List student.

Cole CONTACT Chairman

Madison F. Cole, a rising senior from
Newnan, Ga., has been named chairman
of next year’s CONTACT symposium at
the University.

The changing role of higher education
and the challenge it faces will be the
theme of the symposium, scheduled for
March 8-12, Cole said.

The week’s program will be divided
into five major categories: the role of gov-
ernment in education, the relationships
between business and academic communi-
ties, the place of humanities and science
in education, the value of the small col-
lege, and the challenges ahead for col-
lege-level education, in general.

Cole said he has already begun sche-
duling speakers to participate in CON-
TACT, among them a former Cabinet
member, presidents and ex-presidents of
highly-respected universities, and eminent
scholars and writers.

Cole has named a seven-man steering
committee to assist in planning the week’s
events.

They will include Robert A. Carrere,
a rising junior from New Orleans, La.;
Stephen R. Haughney, a rising senior
from University Heights, Ohio; ‘Thomas
G. Keefe, a rising junior from Milford,
Conn.; John Robinson, a rising junior
from Atlanta, Ga.; Emil John Sadloch,
Jr., a rising senior from Garfield, N.J.;
Roger Munsick, a rising junior from
Summit, N.J.; and Norwood Ernest Pau-
kert, Jr., a rising sophomore from Atlanta.

CONTACT is co-sponsored by the In-
terfraternity Council, which bears the
major share of the $6,000-$8,000 annual
cost, and Washington and Lee’s student
government, which in the past has levied
a small assessment against each student to
finance part of the program.

This past spring, CONTACT brought
to the campus former Attorney General
Ramsey Clark, National Review publisher
William Rusher, and Esquire editor Har-
old Hayes, as well as more than 100 girls
from nearby women’s colleges for a week-
long experiment in coeducation.

Colvin For Senator

Professor of politics Dr. Milton Col-
vin, at one time out of the race for fin-
ancial reasons, is back in again and run-
ning hard for the Virginia Democratic
nomination that he hopes eventually will
lead to a seat in the U.S. Senate.

An expert in foreign policy, national
security, and strategic intelligence mat-
ters, Colvin changed his mind when in-
cumbent Sen. Harry Byrd, Jr., dropped
out of the Democratic Party this spring
to seek re-election as an independent.

 

Candidate Dr. Colvin

Colvin, who calls himself a “common
sense moderate,’ will face George C.
Rawlings, Jr., of Fredericksburg and state
delegate Clive Duval of Fairfax in the
July 14 primary. Colvin both
Rawlings and Duval liberals.

“I am to the left of Byrd,” says Col-
vin, “but to the right of Rawlings and
Duval.”

If Colvin wins the primary test, he will
then meet Sen. Byrd and the Republican
Party nominee, as yet unknown, in the
November general election.

Colvin originally announced his can-
didacy last October, but then withdrew
in January, fearing the $50,000 he felt

terms

CAMPUS <7

was a prerequisite for the campaign
would not be enough for a_ six-month
primary fight, particularly with Byrd in
the race.

“I did not want followers going down
a road with me, only to find the bridge
was out,” Colvin said when he dropped
out of the campaign.

But when Byrd resigned from the
Democratic Party, Colvin resumed the
fight, feeling at the time that $50,000
would be enough for a shorter campaign
against Rawlings and Duval.

Colvin is making the Indochina war a
favorite political issue. In his first major
address on foreign policy—ironcially oc-
curring May 12, the last day of student
unrest at the University—Colvin sharply
criticized President Nixon’s use of troops
in Cambodia, and he called for a com-
plete withdrawal of all American forces
from South Vietnam in 18 months.

(This story was prepared for publica-
tion in June. An unavoidable delay in
production outdated it.)

Lawrence Will Head EC

Francis M. Lawrence, a rising senior
philosophy major from Lakeland, Fla.,
has been elected president of the Univer-
sity’s student government for the 1970-71
academic year.

Washington and Lee students also
elected Philip Thompson of Short Hills,
N.J., vice president of the student body,
and Richard J. Murray of Valatie, N.Y.,
secretary. Thompson will be a_ third-
year law student, and Murray will be a
rising senior. |

The three top student body officers
will serve as the leaders of Washington
and Lee’s Executive Committee, the stu-
dent policy-making and judicial body.

Lawrence won the presidency in a
special runoff election. Previously, he had
placed first in a three-way preliminary
election, but did not receive the neces-
sary majority then. Murray also won in
a runoff.

ROTC Scholarships

Three Reserve Officer Training Corps
cadets, all rising juniors, have been nam-
ed recipients of full ROTC scholarships
for their junior and senior years at the
University.

Marc Small of Novato, Calif., Stephen
W. Robinson of Alexandria, Va., and
Michael Unti of Tantallon, Md., will re-

 

18) CAMPUS

ceive full tuition grants, money for text-
books, and a $50 monthly living allow-
ance under the Army’s ROTC scholar-
ship program.

The announcement of the scholar-
ships was made by Lt. Col. Jack W. Mor-
ris, commanding officer of Washington
and Lee’s ROTC program and professor
of military science.

YR’s Vote Down Girls

Washington and Lee University will
be deprived of “much of its distinctive-
ness” if it becomes coeducational, Young
Republicans on the campus have declar-
ed in a resolution.

The YR’s voted to urge the admini-
stration and Board of Trustees at the
221-year-old men’s school “to maintain
an all-male student body.”

The resolution, introduced by Bruce
MacQueen, a senior commerce major
and last year’s president of the Young
Republicans, stated that the men-only
standard “is a dominant characteristic
of the University as we know it.”

A special faculty committee is cur-
rently studying the coeducational ques-
tion. When it completes its analysis—the
educational, administrative, and economic
factors involved—it will make a recom-
mendation to the trustees.

Washington and Lee is now the oldest
college exclusively for men in the nation.

Absolute Penalty Remains

Students at Washington and Lee, dur-
ing April student elections, refused
to approve a proposal that would have
eliminated the traditional ‘‘absolute
penalty” for convicted violators of the
Honor System, in favor of a lesser pun-
ishment.

The proposed change fell 226 votes
short of passage. With a majority vote by
the entire student body — this year, 688
of 1,374 enrolled students — required to
amend the student constitution, only 461
votes were cast in favor of softening the
penalty.

The 461 “yes” votes represented one-
third of the total student body.

Only 343 votes were recorded speci-
fically against the proposed amendment.
Some 570 students did not vote one way
or the other.

The absolute penalty is automatic,
immediate expulsion from the University
with no chance ever to return. The de-

feated amendment would have changed
the penalty to an automatic one-year sus-
pension.

Washington and Lee’s 12-man Execu-
tive Committee passes judgment on stu-
dents accused of violating the Honor
System by lying, cheating, or stealing.

If a student is convicted by the Execu-
tive Committee, he has two options—he
can accept the guilty verdict and the
absolute penalty that automatically ac-
companies it, or he can appeal the case to
the entire student body.

If he appeals, a jury of 12 students
who are not members of the Executive
Committee is chosen by lot, and an open
trial is conducted. If the student is judged
guilty again, the absolute penalty auto-
matically applies.

All 12 members of the Executive Com-
mittee are elected annually by students.

Periodically, referendums are held to
determine whether students want to
change the absolute penalty provision. In
recent years, the vote in favor of modify-
ing the penalty has consistently been in
the 30 to 40 per cent range.

Student votes are final at Washington
and Lee, with the faculty and aministra-
tion having no voice in its structure or
operation.

Three other proposed amendments to
the student constitution were also on the
ballot. Two of the three, dealing with
procedural matters, were approved with
about 700 votes each.

The effect of one will be to combine
the freshman orientation and the student
center committees. The second provides
for a chain of succession in the event
members of the Executive Committee
leave campus for independent study dur-
ing the six-week “short term’ under the
University’s mew academic calendar,
which goes into effect next year.

A fourth proposed amendment, which
would have disassociated the student
newspaper, the Ring-tum Phi, from the
student government, was narrowly de-
feated, receiving 654 “‘yes” votes, 34 short
of passage.

Scott Award to Jernigan

William Henry Jernigan, Jr., a rising
junior from Cincinnati, Ohio, has been
named to receive the 1970 Scott Paper
Co. Foundation Award for Leadership.

The award provides grants of $1,500
for each of Jernigan’s junior and senior
years at the University. He also will be

offered summer employment by the Scott
Paper Co.

A Dean’s List and Honor Roll stu-
dent, Jernigan is a business administra-
tion major. He is an active member of the
Young Republicans, and is president of
his social fraternity, Lambda Chi Alpha.

The announcement of his selection
was made by Dr. Edward C. Atwood,
dean of Washington and Lee’s School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics, and
chairman of a special faculty-student
committee which nominated Jernigan for
the award.

The Scott Paper Co. Foundation
Award was established at Washington
and Lee in 1965, and is made each year
to an outstanding sophomore who in-
tends to pursue a career in industry or
commerce.

An unrestricted foundation grant of
$1,000 is also made to the University.
Similar awards are made by the founda-
tion annually at 26 other colleges and
universities across the country.

Honig Wins Gilliam Award

Lawrence E. Honig, a senior from
Houston, Tex., has been named recipi-
ent of the 1970 Frank J. Gilliam Award
as the student whose contributions to the
University have been most outstanding
and enduring.

The presentation was made by Presi-
dent Robert Huntley during the annual
senior banquet.

Gilliam award winner Honig

Honig, who received two bachelor’s
degrees—a B.A. in American history and
a B.S. in commerce—has been editor-in-

 

<i

(a> ¥

> —

chief of the student newspaper, the Ring-
tum Phi; president of the Publications
Board; president of Kappa Alpha, his
social fraternity; and chairman of CON-
TACT, the educational symposium.

The award is named for Dean Emeri-
tus Frank Gilliam, who served as dean
of students and dean of admissions for
three decades and who was described by
President Huntley during the award cere-
money as “the personification of Wash-
ington and Lee’s spirit.” Dean Gilliam
is now a special advisor to President
Huntley.

Independent Exam System

Students will plan their final examina-
tion schedules individually beginning
next year, the University’s faculty has de-
cided.

Under the new independent exam
system, each student will be required to
notify the registrar, one week in advance,
of the hour during which he plans to take
each of his final exams.

When the independent scheduling
system goes into effect next fall, students
will have nine three-hour exam periods to
choose among. Most students will be tak-
ing four exams.

The fall exam period will begin Sat-
urday, Dec. 12, at 9 a.m. and will con-
tinue through the following Thursday,
Dec. 17. On Saturday, Monday, Tuesday,
and Wednesday, exams will be admini-
stered between 9 a.m. and noon and be-
tween 2 and 5 p.m. Only a morning
exam will be given on Thursday, the last
day of examinations.

Students will pick up their exams
from the appropriate department at the
beginning of each exam period.

In courses requiring special physical
arrangements for the final examination —
such as fine arts courses in which slides
to be identified are shown as part of the
final — the department will schedule that
portion of the exam at a specific hour
and students will be required to attend
at that time.

They otherwise will be entirely free
to register to take their examinations
during any exam period.

Previously, exams at Washington and
Lee were administered according to the
so-called “block system,’ under which
every student in a particular class or
course had to take the final examination
at the same time as every other student
in the same class or course. The day and

hour for each exam were determined
under an arbitrary pattern which rotated
from semester to semester.

Under the new system, once the stu-
dent draws up his exam schedule and
registers his choices with the registrar,
the schedule is binding on the student,
subject to alteration only with the appro-
val of the faculty’s executive committee.

Professors will be free to change their
exam questions from one period to the
next, or to keep the questions constant
throughout the exam week. In the latter
case, students will be pledged under the
University’s Honor System to keep both
the substance and the general nature of
the particular exam in strict confidence.

The independent exam-scheduling sys-
tem was voted by the faculty after exten-
sive investigation of its merits, as well as
the merits of alternative systems proposed
by the faculty executive committee.

Washington and Lee’s student govern-
ment had endorsed a similar independent
scheduling system earlier this year, and
student body president Marvin C. Hen-
berg attended part of the faculty’s delib-
erations to explain the student position.

New Admissions Aide

James O. Mathews, Jr., who was gradu-
ated from the University in June, will
join the school’s administration as assis-
tant director of admissions and assistant
dean of students.

A philosophy major from Owensboro,
Ky., Mathews’ primary responsibilities
will be in assisting admissions director
James D. Farrar in all phases of work in
that office, including visits to secondary
schools, interviews on campus with pro-
spective applicants for admission to W&L,
and evaluation of applications both as a
member of the admissions staff and as a
member of the faculty committee on ad-
missions.

His appointment continues a_ policy
established in 1969 at Washington and
Lee of bringing one or more new gradu-
ates into the administration each year.
The appointments are usually for one
year.

Mathews will replace John E. Passa-
vant, III, who served as assistant admis-
sions director and assistant dean of stu-
dents for almost a year following his
graduation from the University a year
ago.

While a student at Washington and
Lee, Mathews was active in the Interfra-

CAMPUS 19

ternity Council, and was elected president
of his social fraternity during his senior
year.

He also edited the University’s Stu-
dent Handbook, served as a member of
the University Center Committee, and
was a member of both the varsity swim-
ming team and the Glee Club.

Schildt Gets New Duties

William McC. Schildt, a member of
Washington and Lee University’s admini-
stration since 1968, will become associate
dean of students and coordinator of the
freshman year, President Huntley has an-
nounced.

In the newly created freshman coordi-
nation post, Schildt will have primary
responsibility for planning and admini-’
stering programs for entering students,
President Huntley said.

Among Schildt’s new duties will be
supervision of freshman orientation and
the faculty adviser program, as well as
coordination of the upperclass counselor
system in the freshmen dormitories.

With the revised curriculum and cal-
endar allowing substantially increased
flexibility in the freshman year, Presi-
dently Huntley said, it was decided to
designate a single administration member
to assist incoming students in taking the
best advantage of the new programs.

Schildt, 27, earned the LL.B. degree
summa cum laude in 1968 at W&L. He
received a B.A. degree at the University
four years earlier, majoring in economics.

He was named an instructor in the
School of Law in February, 1968, and in
September of that year he was appointed
assistant director of admissions and as-
sistant dean of students.

Where the freshman academic pro-
gram in past years was largely pre-deter-
mined, entering students beginning next
fall will have greatly increased options
and few specifically required courses.

They will choose from among a wide
range of courses offered in four broad
categories: foreign languages and English;
the “hard” sciences and mathematics; his-
tory, philosophical subjects, and the arts;
and the social sciences.

Schildt will also have primary respon-
sibility for administering several new
freshman regulations which go into effect
this fall, including delayed fraternity
pledging.

A new faculty adviser system will be
established with the curriculum changes,

 

g his graduation.

a

"in April and May li

Se

So

SS

 

Uni- The

— be about $

 

debate with the aim of thrashing out an
overall view of the topic, taking advant-
age of special perspectives and knowledge
from all eight academic areas.

Interdepartmental cooperation, _ re-

quiring the full time of both students
and teachers, was simply not practical in

the past when students had to divide
their efforts among five courses, and pro-
fessors, their time among three or four
classes.

Plenty of the usual kind of courses
will be offered during the spring term,
too, for students who need them. The

CAMPUS -21

tradi-
tional system of education at Washing-
ton and Lee.

mini-semester won't replace the

Instead, by offering a new approach
made possible through unprecedented
flexibility, it will add a new dimension
to it.

 

, »
|
ie
ff
|
~
| >
a2,
B
P »
ah }
ays
iq
Hh
oS
-
1 »
- -

 

Vi»
ni

|
ww,
> -
he
> \. oe Pe, . ie | a. i 40 ; bs : Pal ‘ie ae

f | 1 ‘a mA teed Se ee
New short term, a mini-semester of six weeks at the end of the school year, will allow students and faculty to study away from

. campus, as Dr. Edgar Spencer of the geology department does above in a mountain range.

 

 

enerals’ Best

> W.Va.,
University’s

Jay Meriwe

 

 

 

 

jump, and won numerous awards and
honors both in Virginia and out of the
state. I'wo summers ago, he was the Na-
tional Junior AAU high jump champion,
and since then he has done well at the
Martin Luther King Games, the Colonial
Relays, and other meets.

15 Athletes Honored

Fifteen Washington and Lee students
have been selected for the 1970 volume
of Outstanding College Athletes of
America.

The 15, nominated earlier by the Uni-
versity, were selected for their all-around
abilities and for distinguishing themselves
in sports. Included are three All-Americas
—high jumper Mike Neer, swimmer Bill
Brumback, and lacrosse defenseman Ned
Coslett.

Many of the group have been out-
standing in more than one sport. Tom
McJunkin captains both the football and
tennis squads; Neer is an All-State and
All-Conference basketball player as well
as an All-America in track; Brumback is
an outstanding lacrosse player and an All-
America in swimming for two years; and
Jack Baizley and John Nolan both are
standouts in baseball and football.

Chuck Kuhn and Steve Mahaffey won
All-State honors in football.

‘The team captains include McJunkin
in football and tennis, Neer in track,
Nolan and Scott McChrystal in_base-
ball, Carl Hyatt in soccer, Dean Kum-
puris in football, Rick Armstrong in ten-
nis, Norwood Morrison in_ basketball,
and Coslett and Jay Meriwether in la-
crosse. In addition, Staman Ogilvie is
the 1970 football captain-elect, and Brum-
back will captain next year’s swimming
squad.

Outstanding College Athletes of
America, an annual awards volume recog-
nizing the accomplishments of approxi-
mately 5,000 athletes, will be published
next month.

Basketball Schedule Given

A 25-game 1970-71 season basketball
schedule, including major college oppon-
ents Virginia and Navy, has been an-
nounced by the University’s athletic de-
partment.

The Generals, who posted their fourth
consecutive winning season last year (17-
8), will meet Virginia’s Cavaliers Feb. 2
in the Coliseum at Charlottesville. Wash-

ington and Lee will face Navy’s basket-
ball team Jan. 13 in the Naval Academy
Field House, where the Generals have de-
feated the Middies for the past two years.

Newcomers to the schedule, besides
Virginia, include Johns Hopkins, Balti-
more Loyola, and Dickinson. The Gen-
erals will play 12 games against eight
Virginia schools, including small college
powers Old Dominion and Randolph-
Macon.

Washington and Lee will participate
in two tournaments, one in St. Petersburg,
Fla., hosted by Florida Presbyterian Col-
lege, and the other the College Athletic
Conference tourney in Danville, Ky. The
Generals are defending CAC champions,
and have won three of the last four con-
ference tournaments.

The schedule for the 1970-71 season
will include:

Randolph-Macon

Dec. 1.

Bridgewater in Lexington on Dec. 3.

Old Dominion at Norfolk on Dec. 5.

Lynchburg in Lexington on Dec. 7.

Hampden-Sydney at Hampden-Sydney

on Dec. 9.

Emory & Henry in Lexington on Jan.

6.

Florida Presbyterian tournament at

St. Petersburg on Jan. 8-9. Participants

will include Florida Presbyterian, Au-

rora College, King College, and Wash-
ington and Lee.

Navy at Annapolis on Jan. 13.

St. Paul’s in Lexington on Jan. 15.

Bryant (R.I.) in Lexington on Jan. 16.

Johns Hopkins at Baltimore on Jan.

19.

Davis & Elkins at Elkins, W.Va., on

Jan. 22.

Pembroke in Lexington on Jan. 27.

Virginia at Charlottesville on Feb. 2.

Hampden-Sydney in Lexington on

Feb. 3.

Emory & Henry at Emory on Feb. 6.

Lynchburg at Lynchburg on Feb. 9.

Baltimore Loyola in Lexington on

Feb. 12.

Bridgewater at Bridgewater on Feb. 16.

Dickinson in Lexington on Feb. 18.

Fairleigh-Dickinson at Rutherford,

N.J. on Feb. 20.

UNC-Wilmington in Lexington on

Feb. 23.

College Athletic Conference tourna-

ment at Danville, Ky. on Feb. 26-27.

Participants will include Centre, Se-

wanee, Southwestern, Washington, and

Washington and Lee.

in Lexington on

ATRILETICS 323

Tom Jones—Trainer

Thomas H. Jones, a North Dakota na-
tive with degrees from three Virginia col-
leges, has returned to the Old Dominion
as head trainer and instructor in physical
education at the University.

Jones received a Bachelor of Science
degree in 1960 from Hampden-Sydney
College, a B.S. in physical therapy from
the Medical College of Virginia in 1966,
and a Master of Education degree from
the University of Virginia in 1968.

Jones came to Washington and Lee
from the University of Georgia, where he
has been serving as assistant trainer since
the summer of 1968. He served as super-
visor of therapy at the Woodrow Wilson
Rehabilitation Center in Fishersville
while attending the University of Vir-
ginia.

He is a native of Bismarck, N.D.

Team Captains Named

Washington and Lee’s department of
athletics has announced team captains for
12 intercollegiate sports for the 1970-71
session: They include:

@ Rising senior outfielder Ray Coates
of Berlin, Md., (baseball).

@ Rising junior forward Mike Daniel
of Cincinnati, Ohio (basketball).

@ Rising seniors Paul Wilber of Salis-
bury, Md., and Bill Wilkinson of Ft.
Eustis, Va., (cross-country).

@ Rising senior linebacker Drew
Kumpuris of Little Rock, Ark.,; and ris-
ing senior offensive guard Staman Ogilvie
of Shreveport, La., (football).

@ Rising senior Ken Carter of New
Orleans, La., (golf).

@ Rising senior midfielder Whit Mor-
rill of Monkton, Md., and rising junior
attackman Scott Neese of Rochester, N.Y.,
(lacrosse).

@ Rising senior Mike Jenkins of
Fairfax, Va., (rifle).

@ Rising seniors Carl Hyatt of Hunt-
ington, N.Y., and Mark Sayers of New
York, N.Y., (soccer).

@ Rising senior Bill Brumback of
Baltimore, Md., (swimming).

@ Rising senior Bill Gatlin of Jack-
sonville, Fla., (tennis).

@ Rising seniors Mike Carrere of
New Orleans, La., and Bill Kahn of Mem-
phis, Tenn., (track).

@ Rising senior Dee Copenhaver of
Roanoke, Va., and rising junior Bruce
Hankins of Bridgeton, N.J., (wrestling).

 

 

 

  

 

     
 
  
   
  
 
 

 

 

 

a .

Be

   
 

| | follow was my meetil

Inn. “How is |

  
  

a |
a

    

    

a ee

  
       
   
 

    

e point I want
Bee iefly about the de-

Oo
OO

 
 

IT took all my science

   

 

 

 

  
   
 
 
 
  

OB
=
en 7

>

       

 

a

et

 

   

 

>

“

 

ee

  
      

 

 

 

 

The department offers courses in nearly every major
branch of geology (mineralogy, crystallography, petro-
logy, paleontology, oceanography, geomorphology, and
economic, field, and structural geology), and subjects not
listed in the catalogue probably can be picked up in a
seminar designed to fit one’s particular interests.

The atmosphere in the geology department is one of
professionalism and togetherness. It is a big, happy fam-
ily (enough so that all the majors knew the wives of the
professors to be excellent cooks.) Once a week, the Wash-
ington and Lee Geological Society brings all the majors
together with the teachers to listen to a lecture by one
of the members of the society, or by a distinguished
speaker from another university, or from some other
geological organization. Field trips, many lasting sev-
eral days, are organized at various times of the year, and
they are quite an experience if you do not mind walking
(I preferred the laboratory myself).

You might say that I am a little prejudiced in favor
of the geology department, but I don’t think you will
say that when I talk about the department of physics.
Perhaps, I should be a little resentful about physics be-
cause the only course I ever flunked was in that depart-
ment. (That shameful incident, however, was due to my
laziness—unconsciously lying in the back of my Latin
American mind—and to nothing else.) In fact, I could
say the same about physics that I said about geology, and
I think one of my fellow graduate students (in physics)
at MI'T'—Stephen Fulghum, W&L, ’69—will back me up.

If you are interested in electronics or in astronomy,
you will find an excellently equipped laboratory and
observatory. Courses in modern and atomic physics, theo-
rectical physics, quantum mechanics, and seminars de-
signed to fit the needs of physics majors are offered by
the department’s excellent staff of four. The department
also has distinguished lecturers in a joint seminar held
weekly in cooperation with neighboring Virginia Mili-
tary Institute.

The department of chemistry is definitely one of the
very best in the school. It has a faculty of eight, and the
department offers courses in most branches of chemistry.
Offhand, I remember qualitative and quantitative ana-
lysis, instrumental analysis, physical, organic, and inor-
ganic chemistry, and many advanced courses in the
same subjects. The chemistry seminars are notable at the
University for their large attendance and the caliber of
their speakers—and for the colorful and varied designs
that announce them on the bulletin board of Howe Hall
every week.

There are other things that I must mention. The
science departments are housed in the most modern
buildings on campus. Each department has its own, very
complete, library, where one can keep up with the most
recent developments. I also want to point out that the
science departments have as their heads very dynamic,
hard working, and extremely intelligent men who are

FEATURE 225

always available to the student for counseling and for
discussing ideas of one kind or another. The faculty of
the science departments is a very specially chosen one,
made up of men who are very competent in their respec-
tive fields.

One of the assets of a science education at W&L is the
incredible amount of research that the student has the
opportunity to perform. The Robert E. Lee Undergradu-
ate Research Program gives most science majors a chance
to broaden their educational experience by getting deep-
ly into one of the real purposes of science education—the
ability to do original work. These research projects are
closely supervised by faculty members and contribute a
great deal to one’s ability to succeed in graduate school,
where the key is to contribute, in some form, original
work in one’s field. Some of my projects had such im-
pressive titles as “Quantitative Analysis of Drainage
Basins,” “Interpretation of Seismograms,” ‘Quantitative
Analysis of Igneous Rocks Using Brannock’s and Shap-
iro’s Rapid Analysis Method,” “Some Experiments in
Rock Deformations,” and “Study of X-Ray Diffraction
Patterns.” This type of work gives the student a sense of
involvement and accomplishment which one needs to
keep on working in a given field.

I am sure that I could go on and never quite finish
what should be said, but I hope that I have made my
point clear—Washington and Lee University does offer
an excellent program in the natural sciences. In addi-
tion, one has a chance to obtain a very good liberal edu-
cation, which I consider to be extremely important. That
is not the case in some of the more technical schools in
the country. These schools quite often create the ma-
chine-man, which I consider detrimental to modern
society. After all, it has been what Gene Marine calls the
“engineering mentality” (devoid of social conscience or
ecological sense) which has ruined a great part of our
environment. I believe that Washington and Lee Uni-
versity does a very good job of preparing the scientist
and the engineer of the future for more advanced work.

The science major at W&L today is not usually a pro-
spective major until he has been in the given science de-
partment taking what was a requirement to round out
his liberal education. W&L must endeavor to correct
this by making it known, through whatever advertising
methods it uses, that there is a place—a very good place—
for future scientists on its campus.

From my own experience, I must say that if I lack
some background for taking some of the more advanced
courses at MIT, it was not because W&L did not offer
such background, but because, due to my “‘bacchanalian
life,” I did not take full advantage of the many oppor-
tunities. Of course, it was all part of an education, and
in retrospect, I believe I enjoyed every minute of my
four-year stay in Lexington (even the day I got com-
pletely smashed after finding out that I had flunked
electronics.)

ERLE TEED! Fille

 

26: ALUMNI

 

Clarke Is Elected President of the Alumni Board of Directors

Charles F. Clarke, Jr., ’38, of Cleve-
land, Ohio, a lawyer, was elected presi-
dent of the Alumni Board of Directors at
its meeting during Alumni Reunion
Weekend on May 8 and 9.

He succeeded Fred Bartenstein, Jr.,
41, of Rahway, N.J., vice president of
Merck & Co., Inc., who had served two
years as president.

Emil C. Rassman, ’41, of Midland,
Texas, an attorney, was named vice presi-
dent, succeeding John M. Jones, III, ’37,
a newspaper publisher from Greeneville,
Tenn.; and Richard H. Turrell, ’49, a
New York banker, was named treasurer,
succeeding Clarke.

At the Alumni Association’s annual
meeting on May 9 in Lee Chapel, the
following were named to four-year terms
on the Board of Directors: ‘T. Hal Clarke,
38, of Washington, D.C., William H.
Hillier, 38, of Chicago, and Dr. J. Peter
G. Muhlenberg, ’50, of Wyomissing, Pa.
The retiring members of the board were
Bartenstein, Jones, and Warren H. Ed-
wards, ’39, a judge in Orlando, Fla.

Named as the alumni representative
on the University Committee on Inter-
collegiate Athletics was Gilbert S$. Meem,
°38, of Bluefield, W.Va. He succeeded
Ruge P. DeVan, Jr., ’34, of Charleston,
W.Va.

Members of the nominating commit-
tee were Michael P. Crocker, ’40, chair-
man, of Bel Air, Md., W. Temple Web-
ber, Jr., 54, of Houston, Texas, and A.
H. Hamel, ’50, of Clayton, Mo.

The weekend brought the reunions of
the academic and law classes of 1920,
1930, 1945, 1955, and 1960, and the Old
Guard, those who were at Washington
and Lee more than 50 years ago. These
classes participated in a full round of
banquets, campus tours, cocktail parties,
and attended a lacrosse game on Satur-
day.

The reunions coincinded with Law
Day activities, including the John Ran-
dolph Tucker Lecture delivered by Hunt-
ington Cairns, general counsel of the
National Gallery of Art and an outstand-
ing legal scholar.

The activities of students concerned
about the extention of the war into Cam-
bodia and the deaths of four Kent State
students also coincinded with the week-
ends, and alumni and students had an

opportunity to exchange views on these
and other subjects at length in informal
conversations.

Bartenstein reviewed in his report to
the annual meeting the major events of
his two years in office, citing the inaugu-
ration of a procedure under which alumni
now participate in the selection of a por-
tion of the University trustees and the
holding of special alumni conferences at
which alumni leaders return to campus
and receive a first-hand briefing on the
status and plans of the University.

Clarke, in presenting a plaque to
Bartenstein in recognition of his leader-
ship, paid tribute to him in these words:

“I have known him since he was an
undergraduate—since he worked his way

retiring President Fred Bartenstein.

Incoming Alumni President Charles Clarke (1) talks outside Lee Chapel with

through this University. He has, as John
Jones said so well, a kind of aura of quiet
confidence. He is very able; he always has
been. But he is more than that because
beneath this quiet confidence there is a
burning idealism that one does not en-
counter every day. He is a quiet, confident
man, with an idealism that is centered
among other things on Washington and
Lee. And it is an extraordinary thing to
me how in this world in which we live
today there still are idealists, there still
are brave men, there still are men of
character, there still are men who are
willing to devote themselves to that which
they believe in. And Fred is one of those
men, and I am just damn glad to know

 

As

 

aA, ¥

«

Ia

 

A

 

 

NORTH TEXAS

Director of development Farris Hotch-
kiss reported to the chapter at a dinner
on April 15 at the City Club in Dallas,
commenting on the University’s plans
for the near future. A _ brief business
meeting was called to re-elect chapter
president Richard D. Haynes, 58, and to
elect vice presidents Rice M. Tilley, Jr.,
58, and David D. Carothers, ’61, and sec-
retary-treasurer David B. Long, ’68. A
tribute was paid to the late L. Storey
Stemmons, ’27. Haynes offered a special
welcome to parents and new students,
and to Mr. and Mrs. Upton Beall, ’58.
Beall is a member of the alumni board of
directors. Other guests of the chapter
were Mrs. Hotchkiss and Bill Washburn,
executive secretary of the alumni associa-
tion.

WEST ‘TEXAS

Mrs. Harry M. Nielsen, Robert G. Brown,
49, Lynn D. Durham and Emil Rassman,
"41, were hosts at a formal dinner meet-
ing for alumni and parents of present
students on the evening of April 17. The
dinner was held at the Midland Petrol-
eum Club and included cocktails and
dancing. The event was in honor of
President and Mrs. Robert Huntley, Mr.
and Mrs. Farris Hotchkiss, director of
development, and Mr. and Mrs. William
C. Washburn, alumni secretary. Following
a report by President Huntley on Wash-
ington and Lee, expressions of apprecia-
tion were made to Mr. and Mrs. Rass-
man, Mr. and Mrs. James Boldrick and
others for the arrangements. The guests
from Washington and Lee were in Mid-

ie BEES

Alumni fathers of 1970 graduates seated (l. to r.) are Harry H. Hill, Jr.,
J. T. Lykes, Jr., ’41; E. A. Powell, ’36; A. T. Fleishman, ’41; C. T. Garten, ’

CHAPTER NEWS

land the following day and, after visiting
some of the oil and other industrial com-
plexes of Midland, were entertained at a
dinner party at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Lynn Durham that evening. This meeting
marked the first visit by President Hunt-
ley to the West Texas Chapter.

OTHER MEETINGS

Other alumni chapters which have met
recently include the Tidewater Chapter
in Norfolk on May 12, Appalachian Chap-
ter in Johnson City, Tenn., on May 20,
South Carolina Piedmont Chapter on
May 26 in Greenville, S.C., and the Char-
lotte, N.C., Chapter on June 17. Reports
on these meetings and others occurring
during the summer will appear in a later
issue of the magazine.

ALUMNI 227

 

 

North Texas officers are seated (Il. to r.)
Rice M. Tilley, Jr., ’58, vice president;
Richard D. Haynes, ’58, president; and
standing David B. Long, ’68, secretary-
treasurer; David D. Carothers, ’61, vice
president.

 

Shown at the West Texas Chapter meeting are (l. to r.) Mrs. Rassman, President Huntley,
Emil Rassman, III, Mrs. Huntley, Lynn Durham, and Mrs. Durham.

 

49; W. G. Wiglesworth, Jr.,’35; T. O. Fleming, ’42;

2; S. C. Higgins, Jr., °37; R. W. Root, ’42;

H. P. Johnston, ’29; D. B. Startsman, ’34; W. A. Wilson, ’35; R. S. Taggart, ’43; O. K. Hickman, ’31; E. 8. Roby, Jr.,’40; U. H. Richards, ’40;
W. F. Stone, ’33; H. W. Kelly, Jr., ’45. Sons standing are F. Miles Little (father deceased); Harry H. Hill, III; W. G. Wiglesworth,

III; T. O. Fleming, Jr.; Joseph T. Lykes, III; Edward A. Powell, Jr.; Henry A. Fleishman; C. T. Garten, Jr.; David K. Higgins;

R. W. Root, Jr.; Henry P. Johnston, Jr.; D. B. Startsman, Jr.; W. A. Wilson, Jr.; R. 8S. Taggart, Jr.; Kenneth L. Hickman;

E. S. Roby, II; U. H. Richards, Jr.; Charles M. Stone and William F.Stone, Jr. (brothers); H. W. Kelley, III. Graduating sons

of alumni not pictured were W. P. McKelway, Jr., (W. P. McKelway,’43) and W. P. Wiseman, Jr., (W. P. Wiseman, ’37).

-

o

-

 

a
a
ta

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BRAWNER has relinquished administrative
duties, and devotes full time to teaching

and research.
1925

ALLAN P. SLOAN will retire in September,
1970 from Daniel Construction Co. of Green-
ville, S.C., but will remain active as a

consultant.
1926

After 43 years of service, HENRY M. WILSON
has retired from the Bell Telephone System,
and resides in Owensboro, Ky.

1927

Norton L. WispoM, Sr., has retired as special
assistant to the U.S. Attorney for the eastern
district of Louisiana, completing 33 years
of governmental service as attorney for the
lands division of the Department of Justice,
specializing in the field of eminent domain.

GEoRGE T. ELLIs retired from the First Na-
tional Exchange Bank of Virginia and the
parent association, Dominion Bankshares
Corp., on Feb. 26. Ellis joined the First
National Exchange Bank in 1927 and was
elected trust officer in 1940, senior trust
officer in January, 1956, and in October of
that year became head of the trust division.
He was named vice president and trust officer
in 1958, and senior vice president and trust
officer in 1960. Ellis is a past president of the
Roanoke Estate Planning Council and of
the Roanoke Rotary Club. He is a past
chairman of the trust committee of the Vir-
ginia Bankers Association. Ellis is vice presi-
dent and director of the Evergreen Develop-
ment Corp., treasurer and _ director of
Surgical Care, Inc., and director of Ideal
Laundry & Dry Cleaners, Inc.

1928

WILLIAM C. NORMAN has retired from the
Georgia-Pacific Co. He maintains an office
at the First National Bank of Crossett, Ark.,
and is a delegate to the Arkansas Constitu-
tional Convention.

A Martinsville, Va., attorney, WARREN M.
SHAW, has been named ‘“Boss-of-the-Year’’
by the Martinsville Charter Chamber of the
Amervican Businesswomen’s Association.
Shaw was selected from a number of re-
sumés submitted to the ABWA members on
their respective bosses. Shaw has been prac-
ticing law in Martinsville since 1946, and
has been commissioner of accounts for 21

| 1929

GRAHAM N. Lowpon continues as manager
of personnel and industrial relations for the
film department of DuPont Co. in Green-

ville, Del.
193]

In 1966, HERMAN LITTMAN retired from the
Washington, D.C. school system. This month
he will retire from the Montgomery County
(Md.) school system.

1952

The Rev. WILLIAM L. WoopDALL is minister

. a

 

DONALD BRUCE HOUGHTON, ’39

at the Leetonia, Ohio, Presbyterian Church.
He is the author of three devotional books
for children.

DONALD S. HOSTETTER has resigned as chair-
man of the State Liquor Authority for the
state of New York. He has held the position
for seven years. Prior to his appointment by
Governor Rockefeller, Hostetter was with
the Federal Bureau of Investigation for
nearly go years.

1933

After 23 years in the advertising business,
THEODORE M. Curtis has resigned as vice
president and general manager of Liller,
Neal, Battle, & Lindsey in Richmond, Va.
He has formed a real estate investment and
management business—Delta Land Co.

1934

Cornell University has announced the found-
ing of a new endowed chair, the James J.
Colt Professorship of Urology in Surgery,
and has named its first holder, Dr. Vicror
F. MARSHALL. Marshall, who is currently
professor of surgery (urology) and surgeon
in charge of the James Buchanan Brady
Urological Foundation at the New York
Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, will as-
sume his new title July 1. The late Mr.
Colt was a leading industrialist, and the first
president of the Children’s Blood Founda-
tion at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medi-
cal Center. Marshall has been at the Cornell
Medical Center since 1938 and is well known
throughout the medical community. He is a
member of many professional organizations,
including the American Association of
Genito-Urinary Surgeons, the American
Surgical Association, the American Urologi-
cal Association, the American College of
Surgeons, the Society of Pelvic Surgeons, the
Mexican College of Surgeons, the Canadian
Urologcial Association, and others.

For the past 24 years, A. READ SAUNDERS has
been structural engineer and architect with
the technical support division at Eglin Air

CLASS NOTES :29

Force Base in Florida. He has been with
the U.S. government as an engineer for 32

ae 1935

In November, 1969, FREDERICK D. STRONG re-
signed as treasurer of McCall Corp., and
joined Trinity School, a private school for
boys in New York City, as its treasurer.

1936

E. ANGus POWELL, president of Lea Industries,
Inc. since 1951, has been named chairman of
the board. The Richmond (Va.) furniture
manufacturing firm recently merged with
Sperry & Hutchinson Co.

GRAHAM F., PAINTER is a management analyst
with the West Virginia Department of Em-
ployment Security.

1937

C. ARNOLD MATTHEWS continues to serve as
chairman of the department of finance and
insurance in the College of Business Ad-
ministration at the University of Florida.
He is also educational director for the Flori-
da Bankers Association.

In private practice as an orthopedic sur-
geon, Dr. S. FuLton Tompkins is also a
part-time teacher at the University of Okla-
homa School of Medicine.

The Rev. Horace L. BACHELDER has been
elected president of the Clackamas County
Historical Society. He has published a
book: The Liberal Church at the End of the
Oregon Trail.

WILLIAM H. Rosinson has been elected presi-
dent and chief administrative officer of the
Monongahela Publishing Co., publisher of
three dailies and ong weekly newspaper in
western Pennsylvania.

1938

POWELL GLAss, JR., became general manager
of the Lynchburg (Va.) newspapers March 1,
succeeding Carter Glass, III, ’42. Prior to his
moving back to Virginia, Glass had been liv-
ing in Bay St. Louis, Miss., where he lost
his home as a result of Hurricane Camille.

Dr. Harry M. Puitpott, president of Au-
burn University, was named ‘“Educator-of-
the-Year” by Kappa Phi Kappa educational
fraternity. The award was made for his
contributions to the betterment of educa-
tion in Alabama and for his work as chair-
man of the Alabama Education Study Com-
mission.

Cyrus V. ANDERSON, associate general coun-
sel for Pittsburgh Plate Glass Industries, Inc.,
has been reappointed by the president of the
American Bar Association to serve as co-
chairman of the ABA special committee on
complex and multi-district litigation.

1939

DONALD BRUCE HOUGHTON has been appoint-
ed vice president of equipment and com-
munications services in the newly-formed
Westinghouse Tele-Computer Systems Corp.,
a subsidiary of Westinghouse Electric Corp.

 

 

 

       
  
  
 

- - .

 

 

 

 

 

!
.
x
- a
¢

 

 

 

ae

OS

    

Oo

 

  
  

  

 

 

 

  
  

    
    
  

 

 

     
 

 

 

 

 

 

a

|

7

a
. oe
7
- |

:

Ls

7

/ -

-

-

;

: ;

: ( I Al LES CL.
fort, Ky., - ‘
: , JR, USN
- t awards:
-

      

WASHINGTON & LEE ALUMNUS

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY i ee ie
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 “THE MCCORMICK LIBRARY

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIV
LEXINGTON VA
24450

 

 

 

§2;CLASS NOTES

be on leave from Washington University
and plans to travel in Europe with his
family.

THOMAS C. MARTIN has recently been elected
president of South Jersey Mortgage Co., a
division of Associated Mortgage Companies,
Inc. Martin began in the business some 10
years ago as office manager with South Jer-
sey Mortgage.

1952

An executive of Radio Liberty since 1963,
OrEST NEIMANIS now holds the position of
deputy information adviser at the station’s
headquarters in Munich, Germany. With
transmitter facilities in Spain, Germany, and
Taiwan, Radio Liberty is one of the most
powerful foreign broadcasters to the Soviet
Union.

PuHILIp Roppins has been appointed associate
professor of journalism at George Wash-
ington University. He was formerly with the
Washington (D.C.) Star.

WILLIAM M. CANBY, an attorney in Brooke-
ville, Md., has been elected to the board of
directors of the First National Bank of Sandy
Springs.

WILLIAM H. LYON is a partner with Larry
Shaw in the firm of Lyon-Shaw, Inc., a manu-
facturer of wrought iron furniture. The fac-
tory has 75 employees, and its sales are na-
tionwide.

EDWARD B. SICKLE, JR., has been named an
officer of the Huffman Manufacturing Co. of
Dayton, Ohio. In addition to becoming an
officer, Sickle assumes the responsibilities of
assistant secretary. He retains his duties as
financial manager, a position he has held
since joining the company in 1967.

The owner and general manager of SHS In-
ternational is MorcAN H. LEAr, Jr., of Paoli,
Pa. The firm renders professional employ-
ment service. Lear also is active in com-
munity affairs. He is president of the six-
team Paoli Football Club for boys ranging
from 8-14, and he is coach of a team in the
local Little League Baseball Association.

109

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAsHA A. DRABEK, a
daughter, Christine Jarmila, on March g.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ALBERT W. DAUB, a
son, Michael James, on March 6.

CHESTER T. SMITH, JR., has joined the New
York investment banking firm of Laird, Inc.
as vice president and manager of the firm’s
block trading department. Prior to joining
the firm, Smith was manager of the block
special handling department at Merrill,
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, & Smith, Inc.

JOHN J. SCHUMACKER is sales manager and
vice president of Structural Stoneware Corp.,
a tile manufacturer in Canton, Ohio.

CHARLES MONZELLA has been appointed bay
supervisor of broadcast news by the Associat-
ed Press in New York. A veteran of more
than 16 years with the news service, he has
been an editor in the New York headquar-

ters of the broadcast division since 1965.
Earlier, he was West Virginia broadcast edi-
tor in Charleston, and a radio newsman in
Huntington, W.Va.

JosepH W. ScHER has joined Zavala-Riss
Productions, Inc. in New York City as vice
president and creative director. The com-
pany produces feature, documentary, and
educational films.

Dr. Cecin R. ADAMS, in the practice of oral
surgery in Charleston, W.Va., is currently
president of the Kanawha Valley Dental

Society.
leas

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HASWELL M. FRANK-
lin, a daughter, Nancy Worrell, on Jan. 2.
Franklin has recently been elected president
of the State Squash Racquet Association.

Dr. BRIAN CROWLEY is a member of the
psychiatric staff at the Potomac Foundation
for Mental Health in Bethesda, Md. The
foundation sponsors a day treatment center
which is a self-supporting, private indepen-
dent day hospital facility for adult and late
adolescent patients with emotional disorders.

Since late 1967, ROBERT O. GLASIER has been
employed by Hollingsworth & Vose Co., pro-
ducers of industrial and technical papers. In
January, 1969, he was appointed general
manager of its European subsidiary, H&V
Europe, S.A., and now lives in Brussel, Ger-
many.

After serving the First Presbyterian Church
in Lexington, Ky., for the past five years,
RICHARD T. HARBISON has become minister
of the Broadmoor Presbyterian Church in
Baton Rouge, La.

OVERTON P. POLLARD, former special assistant
to the Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals,
has become assistant attorney general.

1955

Presently dean of the division of education,
JouNn A. RUTHERFORD has decided to return
to teaching at Radford College in the depart-
ment of elementary education. He is presi-
dent of the Radford College chapter of Phi
Delta Kappa, honorary education fraternity.

ROLAND C. DAVIES, an architect in Philadel-
phia, has recently acquired a large loft
building near the waterfront and has reno-
vated it into an office building. His archi-
tectural firm occupies the top floor. With
his major tenant, Davies has formed a col-
laborative, a design group specializing in
graphics, advertising art, photography, cine-
ma-photo, and industrial design.

1956
BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES B. LUNGER, a
son, Robert Clarkson, on Feb. 25. Lunger
will become an elementary school principal
next year.

BORN: Mr. and Mr. JAMES CLAY JETER, a
son, David Spafford, on July 12, 1969. Jeter
is serving a second term in the West Vir-
ginia House of Delegates.

RAYMOND STULTsS lives in London, where he

is general counsel to SHARE Management,
a subsidiary of Shareholders Capital Corp. of
Los Angeles.

Dr. JAcK A. MORGENSTERN is assistant pro-
fessor in the department of child psychiatry
at the University of California at Los An-
geles.

RONALD W. Fast is a physicist with the Na-
tional Acceleralator Laboratory in Batavia,
Il.

Roy C. MARTIN is program director of WFAX
in Falls Church, Va. An animated motion
picture film by Martin, “Green Christ-
mas,” recently won honorable mention in
the 1969 Photographic Society of America

film contest.

An associate professor of education at Wake
Forest University, SAm A. SYME continues to
serve as consultant to the North Carolina
Department of Public Instruction in revision
of social studies.

1957

‘TRAFFORD HILL, JR., currently lives in Char-
lottesville, Va., where he is a fellow in child
psychiatry at the University’s hospital.

DANIEL L. GIGER is principal of Glassport
Junior High School in McKeesport, Pa.

CHARLES KANNAPELL has been transferred to
Washington, D.C., where he is branch man-
ager for the American Air Filter Co.

From Djakarta, Indonesia, CHARLES F. DAvIs,
JR., reports he is manager of a branch of
the First National City Bank.

Formerly with Phillips Fibers, Corp., Don-
ALD C. SPANN is now manager of new busi-
ness development for Reeves Brothers, Inc.

1958

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WARREN NUESSLE, a
son, Frederick Warren, on July 9, 1969.
Nuessle is branch manager of the Fox Morris
Associates, a personnel and executive recruit-
ing firm in Wilmington, Del.

After teaching American literature at
American University in Washington, D.C. for
five years, CHARLES P. Corn is now the
Washington representative for Little, Brown,
& Co., the Boston publishing firm.

In September, 1969, ‘THOMAS C. FRIEDMAN
opened two large home furnishing stores in
the greater Cleveland area. The stores spec-
ialize in imported merchandise from all
over the world.

Dr. Watson J. WATRING is currently chief
resident in obstetrics and gynecology at the
U.S. Army Tripler General Hospital in Los
Angeles. In August, 1970, he expects to start
cancer surgery residency at the City of Hope
National Medical Center in Los Angeles.

Epcar A. WALLACE is county attorney for
Kerr County, Texas, practicing law in Kerr-
ville.

R. W. LuNsForp is teaching in inner-city
schools in Grand Rapids, Mich. With Dr.
Kenneth Johnson, he is developing a cur-

riculum for black students. Also he is work-
ing on a book for teachers dealing with the
psychological and mental preparedness of
teachers.

The Joseph H. Lewis Chapter, United
Daughters of the Confederacy, of Frank-
fort, Ky. had as its speaker in January
CuirForD E. SmirH, Jr. The occasion was the
group’s annual Lee-Jackson Day luncheon.
Smith, the 1967 president of the Young
Democrats of Kentucky, spoke on the lead-
ership of Robert E. Lee after the Civil War.

AVERY JUHRING has been promoted to man-
aging director of Hallmark Cards in France,
Belgium, and Switzerland.

1959

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. SAMUEL MELVILLE
McCartuHy,a son, William Dexter, on Jan. 9g.

In addition to pursuing an M.B.A. at the
University of Dallas, JoHN C. BREDEHOFT is
with Texas Instruments Co. in industrial
engineering supervision.

Continuing as administrative assistant to
Congressman F. Bradford Morse of Massa-
chusetts, ROBERT KETCHAM has been asked to
serve as staff consultant to the automated
data processing group presently working on
information needs for Congress.

H. DonaAtp MoriNneE is currently a_ project
analyst for facility planning for the USS.
Steel Corp. in Pittsburgh.

IRVIN EsAuGH has been appointed vice presi-
dent in charge of sales for Bruning Paint
Co., a division of Millmaster Onyx Corp.,
with offices in Baltimore, Md., and Boca
Raton, Fla.

RICHARD POWELL CARTER, JR., has been ap-
pointed project manager in research and
development for USS Agri Chemicals Co.,
a division of U.S. Steel.

CHARLES R. SPENCER, JR., has recently been
promoted to vice president of Mason & Co.,
a stock brokerage in Newport News, Va.

Living in Greenville, S.C., ANDREW T. ‘TREAD-
WwAy is a commercial loan analyst with the
mortgage loan department of C. Douglas
Wilson & Co.

1960

GrorcE E. ANTHOU is an attorney in Canons-
burg, Pa. He and other members of his law
firm will represent the district attorney’s of-
fice in the Joseph Yablonski case.

During 1969, WALTER G. THOMPSON worked
for Gov. Nelson Rockefeller as a consultant
and researcher on Rockefeller’s trip to Latin
Amercia. Thompson will be with a con-
sulting firm, specializing in international and
national acquisition work.

J. WALTER WEINGART, an assistant professor
of history at Whitman College in the state
of Washington, has been designated a Paul
Garrett Fellow. The Garrett Fellowship ap-
pointment reflects high professional and
scholarly qualities, ‘among, which a high
degree of demonstrated competence in teach-

 

ing shall be considered essential.” Weingart
had a brief career as a lawyer before en-
tering college teaching.

RICHARD J. ABERSON has moved to San Jose,
Costa Rica, where he is manager of a branch
of the First National City Bank of New
York.

The First National City Bank of New York
has assigned HoyLe C. JONES to overseas duty
in Buenos Aires, Argentina. His responsibili-
ties include establishing a regional personnel
office for seven Latin American countries.

JOHN J. HAuN is president of Mattis, Sulli-
van, & Haun Insurance Agency and _ vice
president of Keystone Credit Investment
Corp. in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.

KARL E. ROHNKE is currently serving as a
program specialist for the North Carolina
Outward Bound School in the Pisgah Na-
tional Forest near Morgantown.

1961

MARRIED: B. Epwarp PIERCE to Evelyn
Hutz in September, 1969. Pierce is cur-
rently assistant professor of anthropology at
Florida State University.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM N. OFFUTT,
IV, a daughter, Jane Scott, on Oct. 20, 1969.
Offutt is resident surgeon in opthalmology at
Wills Eye Hospital in Philadelphia.

MARSHALL ‘TIMBERLAKE has joined the law
firm of Martin, Balch, Bingham, Hawthorne,
& Williams in Birmingham, Ala.

JAMes D. WHITE is president of a small plas-
tic molding company in Gates Mill, Ohio.
The company is engaged in a program of
employing and training the inner-city unem-
ployed.

Off to Bonn, Germany for a two-year tour
of duty is RICHARD W. Hoover. Hoover is the
newly-appointed third secretary of the U.S.
Embassy there. It will be his first post as a
State Department foreign service officer.

After five years in Atlanta with Merrill,
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, & Smith, GRAHAM D.
S. FULTON has joined the investment man-
agement department of the First National
Bank of Memphis.

R. H. Parsons was recently appointed to the
executive committee of the Illinois State Bar
Asseciation’s merchantibility of title act
committee.

After Army duty in Korea and a degree from
Georgetown Law School, JOHN C. TOWLER is
in private practice in Roanoke.

1962

MARRIED: RUSSELL ByRAN MILLER to Fran-
cesca Rappole on Aug. 23, 1969. Miller is
currently assistant professor of chemistry at
the University of California at Davis.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT D. LEwIs, a
son, Geoffrey Michael, on Aug. 2, 1969. Lewis
is compensation and industrial relations
manager for the Xerox Corp. in Corona Del
Mar., Calif,

 

CLASS NOTES 33

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ALLAN GETSON, a son,
Brian Howard, on Dec. 20. Getson practices
law with the firm of Eilberg, Corson, & Get-
son in Philadelphia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM R. Moore,
Jr., a son, William R. Moore, II, on March
20.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs A. GWINN, a
son, Kevin “Varner,’on Feb. 25. After five
years with Scott Paper Co., Gwinn is now
affliated with Robert Bye Associates of
Houston, Texas. He is involved with finan-
cial planning, representing New England
Mutual Life, Loomis-Sayles Corp., and real
estate investments.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. PEeaARcE D. HArp-
wick, a daughter, Emily Brook, on Feb. 2.

Davip W. BENN of the Chemical Bank in
New York was recently promoted to assistant
vice president of the international division.
Benn has been with the bank for eight years.

RAY WILLIAM IpE, III, is associated with the
Atlanta law firm of King & Spalding.

After discharge from the Air Force, HArry
TTETER is practicing law with the Baltimore
firm of Venable, Boetjer, & Howard.

Since January, 1969, CHARLES R. BUTLER, JR.,
has been with the Mobile, Ala., public de-
fender’s office.

1963

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Davip C. SWANN, a
son, Christopher Collins, on Jan. 20.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. H. Kirk HENRY, a son,
Christopher Kirkland, on April 23.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. R. THomMAs EDWARDS,
III, a daughter, Jocelyn Augusta, on Feb. 3.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. DAvID GROGAN, a son,
William David, on June 24, 1969. Grogan is
project manager-market planning for Har-
ris-Intertype Corp. of Cleveland.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Lewis G. Nog, JR., a
son, Douglas Lee, on August 8, 19609.

DAN F. Boytes has been elected vice presi-
dent of the Republic National Bank of
Houston, in charge of real estate and con-
struction loans.

Louis A. ROSENSTOCK is a captain in the
Army JAG in Boeblinger, Germany. He ex-
pects to practice law in Petersburg, Va.,
after his release in 1971.

Capt. Epwarp B. OstRoFF is now stationed
with the Air Force on the island of Crete.
Upon completion of his military duty, he
expects to enter urology residency.

In July, 1969, JoHN Marcu was elected as-
sistant cashier of the State National Bank
af: EL. Paso, .fexas.

After completing a tour of duty in Vietnam
in February, 1969, JOHN P. Cover returned
to the market research department of Proc-
ter & Gamble Co.

James L. Srotr, JRr., has been appointed

34 CLASS NOTES

commercial officer of the Philadelphia Na-
tional Bank.

The Continental Insurance Companies have
named WILLIAM H. WYLY as special overseas
representative in Spain, with offices in Mad-
rid. Prior to joining Continental, Wyly serv-
ed in the sales divisions of Bethlehem Steel

Corp. and American Oil Co. He joined Con-

tinental’s foreign department staff at the
eroup’s New York home office, after receiv-
ing a B.F.T. degree from the American In-
stitute for Foreign Trade in 1967.

After receiving his M.A. from Johns Hop-
kins’ School of Advanced International
Studies in Washington, D.C., STEVE STULL
began working for First National City Bank
of New York. He is now in Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia, where he is with one of the bank’s
branches.

EDGE JACKSON is currently employed as opera-
tions manager with PEMCO, a manufacturer
of chemical etching machinery in Minnea-
polis, Minn.

1964
BORN: Mr. and Mrs. DaAvip J. ANDRE, a son,
David Christian, on Oct. 19, 1969. Andre is
presently serving as adjutant of the grd Field
Hospital in Saigon.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES B. ROWE, a
daughter, Ashley Brooke, on Feb. 182.
Rowe practices law in Courtland, Va.

After three and a half years with the USS.
Navy as communications officer and naviga-
tor on a missile destroyer, JAMES G. KIL-
PATRIC returned to the University of Alabama
Law School, receiving his degree in 1968. He
is currently employed by AT&T in its At-
lanta office in the legal department.

Since completion of Army duty in October,
1966, BENJAMIN P. LYNCH, JR., has been
practicing law in Norfolk.

After serving in Vietnam with the First In-
fantry Division, HERBERT F. SMITH is now
employed by Wheat & Co., an investment
firm in Newport News, Va.

MATTHEW G. THOMPSON is partner and
founder of a new investment counseling
firm in Richmond, Va.

After receiving a Ph.D. in physics from
Michigan State University, Roperr A. Pap-
DOCK is now assistant professor at Ripon
College in Wisconsin.

1965

MARRIED: ‘THOMAS CRENSHAW to Jean
Powers on June 19, 1969. Crenshaw, recently
ordained, is now serving a small church in
Syracuse, N.Y., as well as teaching English
and public speaking and coaching football
and basketball at Manlius Academy, a pri-
vate school near Syracuse.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. ADAM J. FIEDLER, a
son, Lee Swisher, on March 4.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. KENNETH E, CHAND-
LER, a daughter, Stacy Elizabeth, on Sept.
g, 1969. Chandler finished his internship at

Baylor Hospital in Dallas in December,
1969, and is currently emergency room physi-
cian at Columbia Richland Company Hos-
pital in Columbia, S.C.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. HUNT, a son,
John Wilmont, on Feb. 2, 1969.

Returning from Vietnam in January, 1970,
Capt. DoucLas V. Davis is now assigned to
Fort Hood, Texas. As an aviator he receiv-
ed several medals and commendations, in-
cluding the Bronze Star and the Distin-
guished Flying Cross.

JoserpH Woop Rutter, II, is teaching and
coaching athletics at Salisbury School in
Connecticut. This summer, he will take a
group of students to study in Europe.

DoucLas D. HAcEstTapD, after release from
military service, is now working for the
Illinois Central Railroad. He is in the ter-
minal operations of about 72 facilities.

With the rank of captain, HENRY B. QUEKE-
MEYER, JR., is currently assigned to the de-
fense intelligence agency in the Pentagon
in Washington, D.C.

After being in the U.S. Army for two years,
one in Vietnam, BRYAN A. LANE is currently
a group field representative with Northwes-
tern National Life Insurance Co. of Wash-
ington, D.C.

After graduating from Columbia Law School
and being admitted to the New York State
Bar, LArry M. Meeks joined the Army as a
courier. He is currently in Vietnam as exe-
cutive assistant to the adjutant general, Mili-
tary Assistance Command.

W. SruarT SMITH is a captain with the U.S.
Army as management service officer at Sandia
Base Army Hospital in New Mexico.

Ranpy P. JoNes and JOHN Yost have
joined the business venture of Hambur-
gers By Gourmet. They have established
their third unit in downtown Houston.

As of December, 1969, the REV. WILFRED B.
Wess, Jr., became minister of the Faith
Presbyterian Church in Dunedin, Fla.

Lr. Davin M. Extis is in the Navy Judge
Advocate General Corps. He is currently the
legal officer aboard the aircraft carrier, USS
Coral Sea.

A. J. T. (AL) Byrne has moved from Rich-
mond, Va., to San Diego, Calif., where he is
associated with the law firm of Jenkins &

Perry.
1966

MARRIED: THOMAS ROBERTSON to Emily
Louise Kelly in February. After discharge
from the U.S. Coast Guard, Robertson is
with Prudential Insurance Co. and lives in
West Orange, N.J.

Currently with the U.S. Army gth Ordnance
Company, H. Scotr LAVERY, Jr., is stationed
in Miesau, Germany, where he is working on
guided missiles and large rockets.

JAmMes E. REDENBAUGH has completed medi-
cal school at the University of Pittsburgh

 

Joun A. STEWART, ‘67

and will start his internship at the George
Washington University hospital in Wash-
ington, D.C.

After receiving the B.D. degree from Gen-
eral Theological Seminary in New York
City, the Rev. S. JAMEs STEEN worked in a
combined parish-campus ministry in Tulsa,
Okla. After being ordained to the Episco-
pal priesthood, he has recently become
curate of St. Thomas Church in Media,
Wash.

At the University of Pittsburgh, WALTER W.
STELLE is a candidate for a doctorate in
clinical psychology. He is also teaching two
undergraduate courses.

HARRY G. GOODHEART, III, is currently serv-
ing with the U.S. Air Force in Vietnam. He
is with a carrier group based in the Saigon
region. He expects to attend law school
upon his release from service in the fall of

1970.

After graduating from Duke Medical School
in June, 1970, HAroLp D. HEAD is now in-
terning at Walter Reed General Hospital in
surgery. He holds the rank of captain in the
Army.

After completing his active duty with the
U.S. Navy, Carey G. Kine, III, is now at-
tending the University of Texas at Austin,
working towards an M.B.A.

DANIEL W. Birp, JR., is practicing law in
Wytheville, Va.

1967

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GAyLorp C. HALL, III,
a daughter, Cheryl Ann, on Nov. 11, 1969.
Hall is vice president of Russell Smith build-
ing contractors in Mesquite, Texas.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RANDALL L. PRIOR, a
son, Christopher Randall, on Feb. 1. Prior
will return to Florida, where he will be
ordained by the Episcopal Church.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT OSTROFF, a

 

daughter, Samantha Leigh, on Jan. 1. Ost-
roff is a third-year medical student at the
University of Maryland.

WARREN STEWART is an account executive
with Grey Advertising, Inc. in New York.
He holds a master’s degree in advertising
from the Syracuse School of Journalism.

WILLIAM L. WALKER, JR., is a staff reporter
with the News and Courier in Charleston,
S.C. Recently, he received an Associated
Press writing award for reporting in-depth
on the problem of air pollution.

After completing clerkship for Judge Orth
of the Court of Special Appeals in Mary-
land, JEFFREY L. Warp became legislative
analyst for the Maryland General Assembly.
In April, 1970, Ward was appointed deputy
chief clerk of the People’s Court for Mont-
gomery County.

Joun A. Stewart has joined the staff of the
Northern Textile Association in Boston. A
member of the Peace Corps in Liberia, West
Africa from July, 1967 to February, 1968, he
served as legal adviser to the Public Utility
Authority of that country and legal aide to
the U.S. Agency for International Develop-
ment in Liberia. Stewart is completing a
master’s degree program in international
relations which he began in Berlin witua
Bostin University’s overseas division.

After graduation from the University of
Georgia Law School in June, JOHN BARRING-
TON VAUGHT will be associated with the firm
of Hatcher, Stubbs, Land, Hollis, & Roths-
child in Columbus, Ga.

Having completed basic underwater demoli-
tion-seal training in 1968, Lr. WILLIAM S.
WILpRICK is currently a member of the U.S.
Navy’s seal team. He expects to be reassign-
ed to Vietnam in the fall of 1970.

1968

MaALcoLm T. HARTMAN is a first lieutenant
with an Army medical detachment in South
Vietnam. He is a maintenance officer and a
medivac helicopter pilot.

CHARLES B. Tomes is currently serving in the
submarine service. aboard a _ troop-carrying
submarine stationed in Subic Bay, Philip-
pines. In addition, he is a qualified Navy
diver and works closely with seal and un-
derwater demolition teams.

Lr. WILLIAM SCHAEFER is currently in Viet-
nam with the 25th Infantry Division, Signal
Corps. He expects to be released in Septem-
ber, 1970.

Joun D. Roserts, former law clerk for USS.
District Judge Charles R. Scott in Jackson-
ville, Fla., has been named an Assistant
U.S. Attorney.

A. ALLING JONEs is research attorney with
the Highway Research Board, a division of
the National Research Council of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences.

1969

MARRIED: Joun B. ApDAms, Jr., to Nena
Powell Bowman on April 7. Adams is in the

 

U.S. Army, and currently stationed at Ft.
Holabird, Md.

MARRIED: Joun F. Kircuer to Susan Reilly
on Aug. 30, 1969. Kircher is currently at-
tending Temple University and expects to
receive a B.S. degree in communications.

Upon graduation from Naval OCS in New-
port, R.I., ENsiGN Ray V. HARTWELL, Ill,
has been attending training school in anti-
submarine warfare and nuclear weapons.
He expects assignment as an anti-submarine
warfare officer aboard the USS Lawrence, a
guided missile destroyer.

JoHN F. CARRERE, JR., is a Navy ensign on
the USS White Plains, with home port in
San Francisco.

Davin T. SHUFFLEBARGER has been named
director of public relations for the Vir-
ginia Employment Commission.

Lr. RicHarp H. BAssetr is with the Army
Security Agency and is assigned duty in
Berlin.

JosrepH E. BATEs is instructor of drama and
head of the department of speech and
theatre at Young Harris College in Young
Harris, Ga.

While working as an account executive for
the advertising firm of Earle P. Brown &
Associates, JEREMY E. Brown is attending
American University night school in pursuit
of the M.B.A. degree.

IN MEMORIAM
1896

VERNON E. FUNKHOUSER, former owner of the
Funkhouser Equipment Co. of Kansas City,
Mo., died March 2 in Kansas City. Funk-
houser, a native of Lexington, Va., moved to
Kansas City in 1917 and founded the ma-
chinery company the following year. He
retired in 1957. Funkhouser served as a
civilian officer with the Army Quartermas-
er Corps in the Far East and the Philippines
from 1901 to 1906. He was a Shriner for 50
years, and a member of the Society of Pro-
fessional Engineers.

1906

ELIJAH COFFEY Moore, former state senator
and former president of the Casey County
Bank of Liberty, Ky., died Jan. 14. Moore
was a distinguished lawyer, and for 16 years
was a state senator and the majority floor
leader for more than one term. He was the
first and only president of the Casey County
Bank since 1939.

1907

CHARLES Epwin DExTER, former superinten-
dent for R. H. Richardson & Sons, contrac-
tors, died Dec. 22. At one time, Dexter was
a construction engineer for John T. Wilson
Co. of Richmond. He had been a member
of the Board of Real Estate Assessors for
Richmond since 1948, and was a life mem-
ber of the American Society of Civil Engi-
neers.

 

CLASS NOTES -55

1908

JoHN W. NEwMAN, a distinguished attorney
from Little Rock, Ark., died March 21. A
graduate of Virginia Military Institute and
the Law School at Washington and Lee,
Newman practiced in Little Rock since 1910.
He was a member of the American Bar As-
sociation, the Arkansas and Pulaski County
Bar Associations, and he was a charter mem-
ber of the Riverdale Country Club.

Lote

JouNn S. MULLINGs, business executive, church,
and civic leader of Columbia, Miss., died Feb.
18. A native of Marshall, Tex., Mullings
moved to Columbia soon after World War I,
where he began a career in the contracting
business. Mullings served on the State Li-
censing Board of Contractors, was a na-
tional director for the State Association of
General Contractors of America, and served
on the Mississippi State Board of Registra-
tion for Professional Engineers and Land
Surveyors. For more than 40 years, he served
as chairman for the Marion County chapter
of the American Red Cross, and he was
very active in its drives and services.

ULEN G. MepForp died in Hot Springs, Ark.,
on March 22. He was one of the first east
Texas automobile dealers, and was a mem-
ber of the board of directors of the Lufkin
Federal Savings & Loan Association and the
First Bank & Trust Co.

Loa5

JULIAN SCHWARTz of Sumter, S.C., died in
November, 1969. For more than 50 years,
he was successful in the ladies’ ready-to-wear
business. Schwartz was an active, articulate,
and ardent sportsman.

Henry Scotr Yocum, a distinguished at-
torney from El Dorado, Ark., died Feb. 27.
As a member of the board of trustees of the
University of Arkansas from 1939 to 1959,
he contributed to the progress of higher
education in his native state. His tenure on
the board was the longest of any trustee in
the history of the institution. Yocum was
particularly interested in the development
of the University of Arkansas Medical Cen-
ter. The University expressed its apprecia-
tion of his contributions by citing him as a
distinguished alumnus in 1954, by awarding
him an honorary Doctor of Laws degree in
1960, and by naming a men’s dormitory in
his honor in 1963.

HENRY BOYNTON GOODLOE, a long-time resi-
dent and lawyer of Crozet, Va., died Nov.

: 1914

CHARLES WADE CrusH, a widely-known Mont-
gomery County judge, historian, and civic
leader, died March 18 in Christiansburg, Va.
A native of Montgomery County, he was ad-
mitted to the state bar in 1915. He served
as commonwealth’s attorney from 1923 to
1935, as Christiansburg’s postmaster for 10
years, and as judge of the County Court
from 1948 to 1963. Judge Crush was founder
of the Old Dominion Boys State at Virginia
Tech. A former director of the Montgomery
County branch of the Association for the

 

56;CLASS NOES

Preservation of Virginia Antiquities, he had
been a member of the Virginia Bar Associa-
tion for 50 years. and had served on the Na-
tional Council of Juvenile Court Judges.

1915

CARL CARLIPP WURZBACH, a prominent at-
torney from San Antonio, Texas, died Feb.
18. Wurzbach began the general practice of
law in San Antonio in 1930, and at one time
he was special assistant attorney general for
the Southern Department of Texas.

1916

CLypDE H. MILLER, a prominent attorney of
Dayton, Ohio, died March 25. He was a
member of the county and state bar associa-
tions, and was a 32nd degree Mason.

1918

Davip B. HArris, a retired assistant title of-
ficer of Lawyers Title Insurance Corp., died
April 20. Harris served as mortgage depart-
ment counsel for State-Planters Bank of
Commerce & Trust for more than 20 years.

He joined Lawyers Title Insurance Corp.

in 1951, and was an assistant officer from
1952 until his retirement in 1963.

HENRY CHAMBERLAIN GREGORY of Victoria,
Va., died Nov. 11.

Roy LEGRANDE Hurst, a former cotton mer-
chant from Chesterfield, S.C., died Jan. 31.
Hurst was a cotton merchant from 1920 to
1938, when he became owner of a Western
Auto store.

FULTON WRIGHT HoGE, a prominent attorney
from Los Angeles, Calif., and a former de-
puty commissioner of corporations for the
state of California, died Nov. 23.

1919

Dr. SAMUEL A. ANDERSON, JR., Clinical profes-
sor emeritus of pediatrics at the Medical
College of Virginia, died March 10. Dr. An-
derson had practiced at MCV from 1928
until his retirement in 1968. He was among
the founders of MCV’s consultation and
evaluation clinic program for mentally re-
tarded children.

BARRY NEWTON BUFORD, a retired farmer and
investor from Shelby, Miss., died March 5.
He had retired in 1955.

1920

EpwarpD GEE BAILEY, a prominent Rich-
monder, real estate appraiser, and former
chief administrator for the Federal Housing
Administration in Virginia, died March 5.
Bailey was a veteran of World War I.

ROBERT EWING, JR., chairman of the board
of the Times Publishing Co., Ltd. and a
member of one of the South’s best-known
newspaper families, died March 10 in New
Orleans, La. The Times Publishing Co., Ltd.
prints the Shreveport Times. Ewing was also
chairman of the board of the News Star
World Publishing Corp., which publishes
the Monroe News-Star and Monroe Morn-
ing World. At one time, Ewing was an at-

torney in New Orleans. He retired from
practice several years ago.

ia |

MELVIN W. Parse, a former chief engineer
with the Army Corps of Engineers, died
June 30, 1969. Parse retired in 1963. At one
time, he had been in the engineering de-
partment with the Missouri Pacific Railroad.

JosHUA HocGe TYLER SUTHERLAND, a_ long-
time resident and prominent educator from
Abingdon, Va., died Feb. 27. Sutherland
Spent 41 years teaching and in administra-
tion in Virginia public schools, 26 years as
superintendent of Dickinson County schools.
After retiring, Sutherland spent a great deal
of time with community affairs, and parti-
cularly with the Historical Society of Wash-
ington County, Va.

JOHN FUQUA STROTHER, a resident of Mathews,
Va., and formerly with the Kentucky-West
Virginia Gas Co. of Ashland, Ky., died

IOV, 4.
Le

AUGUSTIN C. BRYAN, a retired insurance exe-
cutive, died in Lookout Mountain, Tenn., on
March 15. Before moving to Tennessee,
Bryan was secretary of the Bankers & Mort-
gage Building & Loan Association in Bir-
mingham, Ala. He retired from Provident
Life & Accident Insurance Co. of Chat-
tanooga in 1965. The same year, he was ap-
pointed coordinator of a master plan for the
complete redevelopment of downtown Chat-
tanooga. ‘The project is sponsored by the
Chamber of Commerce.

1924

WALKER RusskLL HALL, formerly associated
with the Ashland Oil & Refining Co. and a
banker in Henderson, KY. died Beh, 9,

£92)

Dimirrt G. SIDAMON-ERISTOFF, an attorney in
Rockville Centre, N.Y., and a former mem-
ber of the Brooklyn law firm of Cullen &
Dykman, died Oct. 22.

1926

NELSON SMITH LAKE, chief attorney for the
right-of-way division of the Department of
Highways, died in Charleston, W.Va., in Feb-
ruary after a brief illness. An outstanding
basketball player at Charleston High School
and at Washington and Lee, Lake was cap-
tain of the All-Southern basketball team dur-
ing his college career. He was a member of
the West Virginia and Kanawha County
Bar Associations.

Looe

L. SToREY STEMMONS, chairman of the board
and vice president and general manager of
Industrial Properties Corp. of Dallas, Tex.,
died April 14. Stemmons practiced law in
Dallas from 1927 to 1935. He was called to
active duty during World War II, and serv-
ed in the Navy, with duty chiefly at naval
air stations. In 1946, he and his brother,
John M. Stemmons, undertook the develop-
ment of the Trinity Industrial District of

Dallas. He was a member of the Dallas
Board of Realtors, the Texas Real Estate
Association, the National Association of
Real Estate Boards, the Society of Industria]
Realtors, the National Institute of Real Fs-
tatee Brokers, the state bar of Texas, and the
American Bar Association.

L928

GEORGE EDWIN HEpbrRICK, a resident of High
Point, N.C., engaged in the wholesale gro-
cery business, died Sept. 24.

1929

CAMPBELL CUMMINGS HUTCHINSON, JR., of
Shreveport, La., died Feb. 20. Hutchinson
was a life-long resident of Shreveport, a
member and former director of the Shreve-
port Country Club, and twice past president
of the Shreveport Association of Insurance
Agencies. Hutchinson was also a director of
Frost-Whited Co., Inc., and a director of
Morris & Dickson, Ltd.

boo

WILLIAM SMITH SANDIFER, JR., a prominent
attorney and farmer from Spartanburg, S.C.,
died April 13. Sandifer was formerly special
assistant to the U.S. Attorney with the De-
partment of Justice, land division, in Aiken,

S.C.
1935

RICHARD CATLETT PEYTON, an attorney in the
real estate investment department of the
Prudential Insurance Co. of America, died
March g. Peyton was a member of the
Society of Cincinnati, Society of Colonial
Wars, and the Country Club of Virginia. He
served in the Pacific during World War II
with the Marine Corps.

1940

JAMES MILES FAULKNER, Jr., formerly with
the Dallas office of the Home Insurance Co.
of New York, died March 1.

194]

RIcHARD H. SHOEMAKER, professor of libra-
rian services at Rutgers University, died

March 3.
1963

DAvID C. MONTGOMERY, a native of Rich-
mond, Va., died in Baltimore, Md., March
19. At the time of his death, the popular
campus leader and former captain of the
wrestling team was associated with the Mer-
cantile Safe Deposit & Trust Co. of Balti-
more as assistant treasurer.

1968

JAMEs FincH Royster, II, of Raleigh, N.C.,
died Dec. 19 as a result of an automobile
accident.

SPEC. 4 ROBERT BARRY Crospy was killed in
action in Vietnam on Feb. 26. Crosby had
joined the Army in June of 1969. He served
with the First Air Cavalry Division, Ninth
Cavalry Squadron, and was fighting near
Phuoc Vinh, South Vietnam, when he was
killed.

 

 

 

 

Sek RRM Fe

 

 

 

 

 

| COLLEGE |

m it is the historian’s work at its very

Pest, an accurate record of the
struggles of a great university, show-
ing how far the beginnings, how diffi-
eult the road, how worthy the pro-
duct. —Richmond News-Leader

a. is a good history.... Dr. Cren-
shaw writes well ‘about an institution
for which he obviously has a deep
affection.

—Chattanooga News-Free Press

No similar efforts which come to
mind, including Morison on _ Har-
vard, certain centennial and bicen-
tennial products, and more modern
studies, surpass its merits as the story
of an educational institution.

—Petersburg Progress-Index

This book has deep meaning
for everyone who has shared the
Washington and Lee experience.

For all, it is an important
record of the development of one
of the nation’s great institutions.

Be sure to obtain a first edition copy.

Fill in and mail the attached

order form today.

THE RISE AND GROWIA
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

by Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw
Professor of History

Published by Random House,
New York

Price: $10.00

This book may have come as a bless-
ing tO revive the great Spirit of
Washington and Lee. There has never
been more to be proud of on the Lex-
ington campus—the book makes this

clear. —Charleston News and Courier

The account is concise, yet rich in de-
tail, with frequent touches of subtle
humor. . Lhe exceilence of this
volume fully justifies the enthusiasm
with which it has already been re-

ceived. —Lexington News-Gazette

A pleasing, witty style and excellent
use of quotations enliven the book;
descriptions of student activities and
vignettes of important persons are
particularly interesting.

—The Journal of Southern History

 

 

The history of the college is intricately
related to the history of the country
itself, its prosperity, wars, depressions,
changes in attitudes and in manners.
Consequently, General Lee’s College
is a volume that will interest both
friends of the college and those read-
ers who are interested in Southern
and American history.

—Richmond Times-Dispatch

Alumni of Washington and Lee will
appreciate General Lee’s College
most. It will give pleasure and fur-
nish important insights to all who
appreciate the heritage of our state,
region, and nation as well as the es-
sential role of higher education in
our efforts to cope with this time of

turmoil. —Roanoke Times

ORDER FORM

THE BOOKSTORE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me

copy(ies) of General Lee’s College by Dr. Ollinger

Crenshaw, at $10.00 each. (Include 75 cents handling charges for each copy

purchased).

 

Name ©

 

Address

Payment of $

 

is enclosed.

Zip Code

WASHINGTON & LEE ALUMNUS

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

