WINTER 1965

Robert E. Lee’s
Religious Faith

 

 

N. MANCHESTER, INvwiANA

 

 

THE HECKMAN BINDERY, INC.

THE UNIVERSITY
WASHINGTON & LEE®
LEXUS GION, VA

 

 

 

 

 

Wood Crest Drive
m, 756, 650: Wilmett.

 

Fieldcresi

49, Pa

ry MeCluer_

 

THE

ASHINGTON
AND Lee

Editor

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

Managing Editor

FRANK A. PARSONS, 1954

Editorial Associate
Mrs. ROBERT STEWART

THE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President
E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938

Vice-President
E. STEWART EPLEY, 1949

Secretary
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

Treasurer
E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., 1933

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

JAMES H. CLARK, 1931

Number 1
Volume XL

Winter Issue, 1965

Participants in the President’s Figure at the

1965 Fancy Dress Ball enjoyed the music of

Ray McKinley’s orchestra whose bandstand

reflects the Mississippi riverboat theme of
the ball.

 

 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Washington and Lee’s New Rhodes Scholar

H. Tynnati, DICKINSON, ighg Lewis F. Powell, Jr.—A Lawyer's Profile 5
E. STEWART EPLEY, 1949

POMS Sorter ay aoee The Religious Faith of Robert E. Lee Q
ROBERT A. FULWILER, JR., 1925 7
‘THOMAS W. MOSEs, 1939 oe

E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., 1933 Ihe Campus Leader as a Campus Critic 15
C. WILLIAM Pacy, II, 1950

James W. Priest, M.D., 1943 7 ; ee

FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN, 1924 News of the University 19-30
E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938, President

SHERWOOD W. WISE, 1932 Sports Roundup 21
EDITORIAL BOARD Alumni Fund Makes Good Progress 39
PAXTON DAVIS

FRANK J. GILLIAM, 1917 Anniversary Class Reunions Set for Early May 95
E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938 Da
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940 ‘

JAMES W. WHITEHEAD Class Notes 36

 

Chapter News POR alive (Ali, . Sea Shek aS

Published quarterly by Alumni, Incor-
porated, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at _ the
Post Office at Lexington, Virginia, Sep-
tember 15, 1924. Printed at the Journalism
Laboratory Press of Washington and Lee
University under the supervision of C.
Harold Lauck.

 

 

 

Timothy A. Vanderver, Jr., Becomes
The Eighth Washington and Lee Man
To Win a Coveted Rhodes Scholarship

ASHINGTON AND LEE Univer-
46 sity’s newest Rhodes Scholar
is a tall, handsome senior trom
Birmingham, Alabama, — whose
“Prince Charles” hairstyle contrib-
utes to a general appearance that 1s
perhaps already more British than
American.
Timothy <A. Vanderver, — Jr..
whose widowed mother teaches the

second grade in Birmingham’s
Pratt School, was selected in De-
cember as one of thirty-two Amert-
cans who will spend the next two

years at Oxford University, study-

ing under the auspices of the prized
international awards program.

He is the eighth Washington and
Lee man to win honor as a Rhodes
Scholar since the awards were es-
tablished in 1904 by the South Af-
rican financier and statesman, Ce-
cil Rhodes.

Prior to his final selection, Van-
derver was subjected to a series of
probing interviews in state and re-
gional competition designed to es-
tablish a candidate’s qualifications
according to standards set forth by
the founder of the program. AI-

though academic excellence — re-
mains a prime consideration in the
selection of a Rhodes Scholar, Ce-
cil Rhodes wanted no bookworms,
as such, to benefit from his philan-
thropy. He specified that Rhodes
Scholars would be young men of
character and scholarship, with
healthy interests in outdoor sports,
young men vitally concerned about
their fellowmen and _ possessed of
keen instincts of leadership.
Vanderver entered the compe-
tition for the award in his home
state of Alabama. The program of-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

voluntary. He expects to prepare
weekly papers for Professor Hall
during the terms, but there will be
no final exams until he “stands for
his degree.” ‘Then there will be a
week or more of intensive testing,
with nine written examinations and
one oral interrogation.

If he has done well at this point
in his Rhodes program, Vanderver
says he can apply for an extension
of another year’s study at Oxford.

Academic honors are nothing
new tor Vanderver, who was an
honor student at Birmingham’s
Phillips High School where the
principal is Washington and Lee
alumnus Edward Aull, Jr. It was
Aull who recommended Washing-
ton and Lee to Vanderver. ‘The
young man visited the Lexington
campus, was sold on what he saw,
and won a coveted George ‘T’. Baker
Scholarship from Washington and
Lee.

“I’ve received an excellent edu-
cation here,’”’ says Vanderver of his

four years at Washington and Lee.

 

He cites the excellence of the De-
partment of Economics as one im-
petus toward his good record.
Among the characteristics of the
University that appeal to him are
“the traditions, and amazingly
enough, the fraternity life.”

Vanderver, who is 20 years old,
has been treasurer of the Sigma Chi
house for two years. In addition to
the Baker Scholarship, he has also
held the departmental scholarship
in economics and the James D.
Davidson Memorial Fund Scholar-
ship. He is a member of Omicron
Delta Epsilon, the national honor-
ary economics fraternity, and he
was tapped for Phi Beta Kappa
membership this spring, standing
sixth in his class at the beginning
of the current session.

As an ROTC cadet, Vanderver
has won designation as a Distin-
guished Military Student. He also
has worked as a language labora-
tory assistant under the Robert E.
Lee Research Program and as a
student grader in a statistics course.

When he sets sail for England
next fall, he will be following in
the wake of a distinguished com-
pany of Washington and Lee men
who preceded him as the Univer-
sity’s participants in the Rhodes
Scholar program. Among them are
Col. Francis Pickens Miller, ’14, a
special officer in the Department of
State, who was the first Washine-
ton and Lee Rhodes Scholar in
1919; the late Dr. Fitzgerald Flour-
noy, ‘21, who became one of the
University’s most memorable pro-
fessors, in 1922; the late Samuel A.
McCain, °27, of Riverdale-on-Hud-
son, N. Y., in 1927; Clarence Pen-
dleton Lee, Jr., °32, formerly of
Pine Bluff, Ark., and now residing
in Zephyrhills, Fla., in 1933; Dr.
Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., ’39, now
president of the University of Vir-
ginia, in 1947; Dr. Robert O. Pax-
ton, of Lexington, ’54, now teach-
ing history at the University of
California, in 1954; and Jon B. Mc-
Lin, *60, of Earl, Ark., now work-
ing toward his doctorate, in 1960.

Behind VANDERVER’s selection as a Rhodes Scholar are many
hours spent at study in the Newcomb Hall library of the School
of Commerce and Administration where he is an economics

major.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Wilham Johnson, 53, of
the Virginia Associated
Press Bureau Is the Author
of this Personality Profile
of the Fifth Washington
and Lee Alumnus ‘To Head
the American Bar Associa-
tion. It appears Here by
Permission of the Associ-

ated Press.

 

Lewis F. Powell, Jr.
—A Lawyer’s Profile

WINTER 1965

cor

 

 

 

 

‘mond’s all white public schools re-

 

“Under Norio S Teadership, | ee

ND

  

    

 

 

/MAGAZ IN E

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It was for this understanding that
Powell pushed the courses in com-
munism and the Russian language.

“We have got to educate the peo-
ple, to broaden the base, so they can
understand and make reasonable
judgments about world problems
and world leadership. Broadening
the base and the emphasis on the
social sciences has not kept abreast
of what education has done in the
physical sciences.”

Powell and his wife, the former
Josephine Pierce Rucker of Rich-
mond, have two. school-age chil-
dren, Lewis, III, 11, and Molly, 17.
Two older daughters—“I call my
family ‘split’ because of World War
II service in Europe and Africa”—
now are married and both teach
school, one in ‘Vexas and the other
in Massachusetts.

With his duties as ABA president
added to already existing ones,
ranging from director of three col-
leges to a trustee of Colonial Wil-
liamsburg, Inc., Powell has little
time for the family tennis he used
to play. His expensive camera
equipment seldom gets a workout.

A devoted family man, he is con-
cerned about the nation’s moral at-
tituce.

“T suggest that we live in an age
of excessive tolerance. This is a
risky thing to say because tolerance
is also a high virtue when it means
absence of prejudice,” he said in a
recent speech.

“But there is another kind of tol-
erance which accepts, if not affirma-
tively condones, levels of personal
conduct and attitudes which are

marginal or clearly bad in terms of

the ethics of the individual as well
as the welfare of society.

‘There are many examples, rang-
ing from overindulgence of chil-
dren in the home to the affirma-
tive participation in lawlessness.
These include juvenile drinking,
flagrant violation of traffic laws,
flouting of obscenity and pornog-
raphy laws, illegal gambling, cheat-
insurance

ing on claims against

WINTER 1965

companies, circumvention of di-
vorce laws, disregarding of antitrust
laws, condoning of union violence
and the tendency of government
itself—at various levels—to apply
double standards and to genuflect
to political influence and expedien-
CVE:

As for the racial problem, Pow-
ell says, “Solutions will not come
easily or quickly.

“We must strive to attain them
on the broadest possible front, by

revitalizing the Judeo-Christian

ethical standards, by insisting upon
observance of law, by citizens and
public officials, by a stricter en-
forcement of laws and improve-
ment in the administration of crim-
inal justice, by demanding that the
rights of society are not subordi-
nated to the rights of those who
would prey upon society, and by en-
couraging in the home, in_ the
schools and at all levels of society
a higher sense of individual duty
and a genuine respect for law and
order.”

 

Lewis F. Powetw’s presidency of the American Bar Association has brought him in
frequent contact with the nation’s top leadership. Here he is with PRESIDENT LYNDON B.
JOHNSON.

“I

 

The Religious
Faith of
Robert E. Lee

The Annual University Assembly On
Lee’s Birthday This Year Heard a
Notable Address by the University’s
Chaplain, Dr. David W. Sprunt, Pro-
fessor of Religion and Associate Dean
of Students. Dr. Sprunt’s Remarks

Are Presented in Full.

 

Dr. DAvip W. SPRUNT

WINTER 1965

~~ LIFE OF Robert E. Lee may be reviewed profit-

ably from many different angles. I have been
asked to share with you a few observations concern-
ing his religious faith. ‘he subject is fraught with
peril on every side. Perhaps the most common and
deadly peril is reflected in the opening sentence of
one of the many books about Lee. “There is a tenden-
cy,” the author declares, “to exalt unduly the virtues
of great men and to magnify the religious character of
one professing to be a Christian.”

The point is well taken. ‘Too well taken by that
particular author; for having cast his stones, he him-
self soon succumbs to the same temptation. Appar-
ently, quite unaware that he is falling under his own
earlier words of condemnation, he flatly declares:
“After years of study of the life and character of
Robert E. Lee, I fail to find, in his whole career, from
the cradle to the grave, a flaw in his relation to his
family, his friends, his associates, or his enemies; in his
conduct at home, in school, in the field, in the college,
or in the church; and in his moral, social, and religious
character.”

It is not hard to imagine what would have been the
General’s reaction to such praise—utter astonishment,
indescribable chagrin. For he knew better.

And yet, despite his legitimate protests against be-
ing called a model of perfection, a persistent question
continues to haunt us. Why is it that so many students
of his life have been drawn, as if by some irresistible

9

magnet, over the precipice of cool
reason and forfeited their claims to
objectivity by indulging in obvious-
ly extravagant praise? How has it
come to pass that the legendary por-
trait of Lee the Perfect has been
drawn not only by Southern writers
who might well be suspected of sen-
timental etho-centrism, but also by
writers of Northern background,
some of whom had fought him bit-
terly?

‘The obvious answer is, I believe,
the correct one. Robert E. Lee,
though far from perfect, was a re-
markably good man. Compared to
most of us ordinary mortals, he was
clearly a superior person. ‘Through
those pages of history made vivid
with his hfe we watch this extra-
ordinary man—and wonder. We
watch the kind of life he lived—
and wonder how he lived it. We
watch his character unfold before
our almost unbelieving eyes—and
wonder how he came by it.

Many attempts have been made
to capture the elusive essence of his
character. ‘The most successful, I
feel, has been made, not surpris-
ingly, by his most authoritative bi-
ographer, Douglas Southall Free-
man. Toward the close of his mon-
umental four-volume study of Lee’s
life this conclusion rings clear:
“Robert E. Lee was one of the small
company of great men in whom
there is no inconsistency to be ex-
plained, no enigma to be solved.
What he seemed, he was—a wholly
human gentleman, the essential
elements of whose positive charac-
ter were two and only two, simplic-
ity and spirituality.”

“A wholly human gentleman’—
yes, whatever you may have heard
to the contrary, he actually was a
human being. Whether frolicking
with his children or roughing it
with his soldiers; whether delight-
edly engaged in amusing the ladies
(he was “unfeignedly attracted to
intelligent, handsome women’) or
dutifully delivering a stern lecture
to an erring student; whether paus-

10

ing by a country lane to give some

child a much coveted ride on Trav-

eller or graciously meeting General
Grant in quiet dignity at Appo-

_mattox—in whatever activity we ob-

serve him, if we take care to look
behind the legend, we invariably
find a warm, human personality. It
had to be a warmly human person-
ality to win the love of little chil-
dren, the devotion of tough sol-
diers, the loyalty of wayward stu-
dents, the adoration of lovely
ladies and the respect of conquer-
ing generals!

Furthermore, his was a personal-
ity “wholly human”’ in its weakness
as well as in its winsomeness. To
be sure, it does not appear that he
was often tempted by the ordinary
vices which beset most of us; but
he knew his susceptibility to other,
more subtle temptations. He was
not so naive as to measure himself
by some petty moral code, and then
congratulate himself for observing
a few of its requirements. Rather,
he saw himself measured and
judged by far higher standards. As
Freeman put it, “...he always felt,
with a sincerity no man can chal-
lenge, that he had fallen immeas-
urably short of his ideal of a ser-
vant of God.” He was most un-
happy when unqualified allegiance
was given to him, rather than to
the One to whom he gave his alle-
giance. For he was “wholly hu-
man,’ and as such, in his own
words, “nothing but a poor sinner,
trusting in Christ for salvation...”

This confession, so often repeat-
ed, points us back to the two key
elements in his positive character
signaled out by Freeman—“simplici-
ty and spirituality.” Actually, these
are but two sides of a coin. ‘The

utter simplicity which marked the
pattern of his days but reflected a
parallel simplicity at the dynamic
core of his religious experience.
To assert that Lee’s faith was
simple, however, can be seriously
misleading. On the one hand, he
was certainly not what is usually
meant by the terms “religious
thinker” or “theologian.” To the

contrary, the evidence is abundant

that he strictly avoided discussion
of speculative doctrine and shun-
ned sectarian disputes. Numerous
anecdotes focus on this character-
istic. On one occasion, for instance,
a friend asked if he believed in the
Apostolic Succession—a fairly im-
portant doctrine in the history of
the Episcopal Church, to say the
least! Lee, at that time a vestryman
of the Episcopal Church here on
campus, is quoted as replying: “‘I
never trouble myself about such
questions; my chief concern is to
try to be a humble, sincere Chris-
tian myself.”

On the other hand, behind this
effort to keep his religion simple
by avoiding what he considered
theological speculation and debate
lay an impressive profundity which
cannot be denied. The Board of
Managers of the Rockbridge Coun-
ty Bible Society, which Lee ener-
getically served as its president
during his years in Lexington, per-
ceptively put their finger on the
nature of this profundity. In a for-
mal resolution at his death, they
declared: “To the inviolable dig-
nity of a soul among the noblest
of all history was in him thorough-
ly united that guileless, unpretend-
ing, gentle and yet earnest spirit of
a little child, so emphatically des-
ignated by our Lord as the essential

“My chief concern 1s to try to be

a humble, sincere Christian myself.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

to perpetuate the institution of
slavery?’

“<The future is in the hands of
Providence,’ he replied. ‘but if the
slaves of the south were mine, I
would surrender them all without
a struggle to avert the war.’

“IT asked him next upon what his
calculations were based in so un-
equal a contest, and how he ex-
pected to win success; was he look-
ing to divided counsels in the
North, or to foreign interposition?
His answer showed how little he
was affected by the hopes and fears
which agitated ordinary minds.

“ “My reliance is in the help of
God.’

“Are you sanguine of the result?’
I ventured to inquire.

“At present I am not concerned
with results. God’s will ought to
be our aim, and I am content that
His design should be accomplished
and not mine.’ ”

clearest light he had at the time,
and humbly confessing his sins, he

was ever willing to be over-ruled by
Divine Providence. Even when he

was completely thwarted in what
he believed to be his God-given
duty, he was willing to submit to
the will of God because he believed
in the goodness and wisdom of God
as well as in the power of God. He
was an incurable optimist in his un-
shakable confidence that God will,
in the long run, bring good out of
evil.

It was the profound simplicity of
his rocklike faith that enabled him
to accept overwhelming defeat
calmly, quietly and without bit-
terness—and thereby transform
that defeat into a higher victory.
Freeman, especially, shows us how
this simple trust in God sustained
him not only during the war but in
its terrible aftermath. Writing
about the ex-General’s acceptance

So many of his letters were just such lifelines

To say the least, that is an un-
usual veiwpoint to be taken by a
commanding general! It is with
some difficulty reconciled with his
battlefield calls to repentance. In
fact it would appear that we have
here either the subtlety of a relig-
ious paradox (which we do not
ordinarily expect to find in Lee),
or else an unrecognized contradic-
tion which reflects his essential hu-
manity.

At any rate, Bradford is quite
correct, I feel, in pointing out that
“here is the key to what in much of
Lee’s action seems strangely puzz-
ling to those whose standpoint is
somewhat different than his.” As
that biographer put it, Lee’s basic
philosophy was: “Do the plain
duty, Let the rest go. God will take
care of it.” In other words, once
having prayerfully determined on
his course of action according to the

12

others in need. So many of his let-
ters were just such lifelines thrown
to persons in dire distress of body
or soul. Writing to the beloved
and dying wife of his wounded and
recently captured son Fitzhugh,
General and father speak as one
voice: “I can appreciate your dis-
tress at Fitzhugh’s situation. I
deeply sympathize with it, and in
the lone hours of the night I groan
in sorrow at his captivity and sepa-
ration from you. But we must bear
it, exercise all our patience, and do
nothing to aggravate the evil. This,
besides injuring ourselves, would
rejoice our enemies and be sinful in
the eyes of God. In His own good
time He will relieve us and make
all things work together for our
vood, if we give Him our love and
place in Him our trust.” ‘These
words, it might be noted, are simp-
ly a perceptive paraphrase of a key
sentence in the Apostle Paul’s letter

thrown to persons in dire distress of body or soul.

of the presidency of Washington
College, he observes: “It was not
always easy to watch the welfare
of 400 boys, it was not always pleas-
ant to keep in mind all the small
details and economics of a poor,
overcrowded college. The weight of
his peoples sorrow lay on his heart,
all while, and in his mind he some-
times had to do battle with many
memories. He was sustained in all
of it by the self-mastery that was,
in large sense, one expression of
his religion. Belief in God’s mercy
and submission to His will, in a
faith that never seemed to be
troubled by doubt, were stronger
after Appomattox, if that were pos-
sible, than before.”

It is only in this perspective that
we can understand his extraordi-
nary ability to stand up under per-
sonal as well as public disaster and
to share his inner fortitude with

to the Christians of Rome. The
original reads: ‘“‘“We know that in
everything God works for good with
those who love Him, who are called
according to his purpose.”

Again, it is only in the perspec-
tive of such a faith that we can be-
gin to plumb the depths of that
spirit of forgiveness for which Lee
is so famous. Again and again his
biographers refer in awe to this
quality in Lee. One of their numer-
ous, well-documented revelations of
the inner man, is this testimony
from a Yankee soldier who en-
countered the General after the
Battle of Gettysburg:

“Twas badly wounded,’ re-
called a private of the Army of the
Potomac. ‘A ball had shattered my
left leg. I lay on the ground not
far from Cemetery Ridge, and as
General Lee ordered his retreat,
he and his officers rode near me.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

As he came along, I recognized him,
and though faint from exposure
and loss of blood, I raised my
hands, looked Lee in the face, and
shouted as loud as I could, Hur-
rah for the union! The General
heard me, looked, stopped his
horse, dismounted, and came to-
ward me. I confess I at first thought
he meant to kill me. But as he came
up, he looked down at me with
such a sad expression on his face,
that all fear left me, and I wonder-
ed what he was about. He extended
his hand to me grasping mine firm-
ly and looking right into my eyes,
said, ‘““My son, I hope you will soon
be well.” If I live a thousand years,
I will never forget the expression
on General Lee’s face. There he
was, defeated, retiring from a field
that had cost him and his cause
almost their last hope, and yet he
stopped to say words likes these to
a wounded soldier of the opposi-
tion, who had taunted him as he
passed by.’ ”

This amazing attitude towards
his enemies as individuals he ex-
hibited throughout the war, even
as, in loyal defense of his native
state, he exerted all his energies
and military genius to destroying
the Union armies as such. For here
was a man, that rare person, who
could hate what his enemies stood
for without hating his enemies
themselves. Here was a man who to
an astonishing degree, understood
and obeyed Jesus’ command that we
love our enemies. As Bradford has
written: “Chere have been fierce
saints who were fighters. ‘There
have been gentle saints who were
martyrs. It is rare to find a soldier
making war—stern war—with the
pity, tenderness, the sympathy of a
true follower of Christ.’ Knowing
himself loved by God he loved
others. Knowing himself forgiven,
he forgave.

This same pity, tenderness and
sympathy — this same forgiving
spirit—he brought with him to this
campus. In the midnight of defeat

WINTER 1965

he came to Lexington as the herald
of a new dawn for the South and
for the Nation. Rejecting numerous
offers of “houses, lands and money,
as well as positions as president of
business associations and chartered
corporations,’ and even an offer
by a British admirer to establish
him on an English estate with an
annuity of $15,000, he accepted the
invitation to become the head of
proverty-stricken little Washington
College with its physical facilities
in shambles and a grand total of
twenty-two students and four pro-
fessors. In sharp contrast to the
gilt-edged business proposals he
turned down—including offers of
up to $50,000 a year simply to per-
mit his name to be used—he as-
sumed an almost hopeless assign-
ment on the promise of a yearly sal-
ary considerably less than the in-
come he could have commanded
elsewhere.

Why did he do it? “It is evident,”
as one of his biographers observes,
“that he regarded his new work as
a calling from God—as a God-given
opportunity to do a service to the
young men of the South and to
the Country.’ Never countenanc-
ing any expression of hatred or ven-
geance directed against the Yankees
by professors or students, he set his
heart upon making this campus a
place of healing for his country’s
deepest wounds—yes, his country,
even though until his death he re-
mained indicted for treason and
denied citizenship.

To this end, as the focal point
of his dreams, one of his first major
actions as president was to plan and
build a chapel for his struggling,
war-ravished little college. ‘There
in that chapel the greatest of the
generals came faithfully to worship,
not only with the sons of his former
comrades in arms but with the

sought-out and warmly welcomed
sons of former enemies on the field
of. battle.

Lee’s special interest in the Chap-
el brings us in sight of at least part
of the answer to the inevitable
question: how did Lee come by a
faith that gave him such power to
be “calm when others were fren-
zied, loving when they hated, and
silent when they spoke with bitter
tongue?” ‘The answer is_ clear.
From the time when he was a
young lieutenant of engineers to
the end of his life, he made certain
that the flowing spring of his inner
power would not dry up by estab-
lishing two habits. Around them
the pattern of his days revolved.
Only under extreme duress would
he depart from them.

One was the habit of public
worship. ‘Though he did not for-
mally join the Church until he was
in his middle forties and superin-
tendent of West Point, the evidence
is abundant that since his early
youth he felt an imperative inner
need to participate regularly in
public worship. Being essentially
non-sectarian in outlook, it made
little difference to him what par-
ticular brand of Christians he join-
ed in worship. When public serv-
ices were not available, he impro-
vised. While on a frontier assign-
ment in Texas in 1857 as a lieuten-
ant-colonel he wrote his wife: “This
is Easter Sunday, I hope you have
been able to attend the services at
church. My own have been per-
formed alone in my tent, I hope
with a humble, grateful and peni-
tent heart...” The letter closes
with this: “May...He in His own
good time unite us in worship, if
not on earth, forever in heaven.”

In keeping with that quality of
simplicity which dominated his en-
tire approach to life, he liked ser-

“The beauty of it was that the preacher gave

our young men the very marrow of the Gospel.”

13

mons to be brief, practical and to
the point—the point being the meat
of the Bible. Referring to a Bacca-
laureate sermon, he said: “It was
a noble sermon, one of the best I
ever heard—and the beauty of it
was that the preacher gave our
young men the very marrow of the
Gospel.”

In the light of the high value he
placed on corporate worship, it is
not surprising to learn that he had
a reputation for never being absent
or tardy at services held at the West
Point Chapel or here in the Chapel
on the campus. As far as can be
determined, he never himself led a
service of worship or gave a relig-
ious address in the Chapel, but he
was always there if it were at all
possible, invariably sitting in the
second pew from the front on the
left. Furthermore, though he did
not believe in forcing students to
attend, under the persuasive influ-
ence of his quiet example, the vast
majority of them were always there,
too—there, that is, at 7:45 every
morning except Sunday and at 9:00
on Sunday!

The second enduring habit by
which the rugged simplicity of Rob-
ert E. Lee’s rock-like faith was con-
tinually renewed every morning
and made fresh every evening was
his practice of daily periods of
Bible reading and prayer, alone
and with his family. As one of his
biographers has expressed it: “He
was emphatically a man of pray-
er...and a constant Bible read-
er...even amid his most pressing
duties.” Lee himself wrote that the
Bible was “a book in comparison
with which all others in my eyes are
of minor importance, and which in
all my _ perplexities has never
failed to give me _ light and
strength.” Describing the pattern of

Lee’s days as President of Washing-
ton College, Freeman notes that
“The General had family prayers
every morning before breakfast, but
his own spiritual life was bound up
with the daily Bible reading and
with special seasons of private pray-
er.”’ “He arose early and cheerfully
and had his private devotions” and
“when he retired to his own room
he had his evening prayers and was
soon asleep.”

Various Bibles were given to him
from time to time by his admirers.
One of these you may see on dis-
play in the Lee Chapel Museum.
You will find it turned to the gth
chapter of the Gospel According to
Luke which contains a saying of
Jesus about which Freeman makes
this comment: “Had his life been
epitomized in one sentence from
the Book he read so often, it would
have been in these words, ‘If any
man will come after me, let him de-
ny himself, and take up his cross
daily, and follow me. ”

In the words of another of Lee’s
biographers: “His right to be called
a Christian hero rests not upon any
of his achievements done before the
eyes of men, but rather to that
spirit of self-renunciation, so often
exhibited in his career, whereby
he turned away from honor and
place and ease, and cast his lot with
his people in danger, trial and ad-
versity.” “The sign of the cross was
upon his life—especially upon all
that epoch of lowly and inconspt-
cuous labor for the young men of
the South, as president of Wash-
ington College.” Dr. E. C. Gordon,
Treasurer and Secretary of the Col-
lege under Lee, felt that “the relig-
ious phase of his character may be
summed up in three short sen-
tences. He trusted and loved God.

“Tee died, as he had lived, calmly and quietly,
in the full assurance of the Christian JOE ae:

14

He loved his fellowmen. He _ be-
lieved in Jesus Christ as his Saviour
and Lord, and manifested the
Christian spirit towards enemies
as well as friends.”’

‘There have been numerous other
attempts to epitomize the life of
Lee. In my own view, however, the
most unadorned and perceptive ef-
fort to capture in words the essence
of his faith was made by a student.
His straight-forward, on-the-scene
account of Lee’s death in a student
publication of October 15, 1870,
stands in stark and welcomed con-
trast to the torment of effusive
mourning and adoration which at
once began flowing from the pens
of his admirers—and which has con-
tinued in some quarters to the pres-
ent day. In a relatively brief, fac-
tual report the editor records the
General’s last days and moments. At
the close of his report, writing with
profound simplicity so character-
istic of the man himself, he con-
cludes: “Lee died, as he had lived,
calmly and quietly, in the full as-
surance of the Christian’s faith...’
I believe that summation would
have pleased the General; for so, in-
deed, he had lived—calmly, quietly
with a child-like faith in the power
and love of God. As he wrote in a
letter to his wife: “I know in whose
powerful hands I am, and on Him
I rely and feel that in all our life
we are upheld and sustained by Di-
vine Providence, and that Provi-
dence requires us to use the means
He has put under our control. He
designs no blessings to idle and in-
active wishes, and the only mir-
acle He now exhibits to us is the
power He gives to Truth and Jus-
tice to work their way in this
wicked world.’ In that assurance
he lived—and in that assurance he
died.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Campus Leader As a
Campus Critic

WENTY-FIVE YEARS AGO at a similar ODK tapping
‘Pea the usual expectant hush fell over the
student body as one of the ODK members went down
from the stage into the audience to tap a new member
and escort him to the platform. This abnormal quiet-
ness turned to a buzz of interest when it was discov-
ered that the seat of the intended new member was
vacant. It became a real sensation, at the end of the
tapping ceremony, as the student who was to have
been honored appeared at the back door of the audi-
torium and handed out copies of a long statement
castigating ODK and saying why he would not ac-
cept membership.

As a junior at the time, I was startled to have ODK
itself called into question. Later I found that ODK
had other critics as well. Listen to this, from a novel
by a man who taught here at Washington and Lee
where ODK began.

“Omicron Delta Kappa is an honors fraternity,

thriving chiefly in the south and in the west. Its

motto is leadership. It sponsors character, ideals,
responsibility. It stimulates the wily fraternity
politician to be slicker, the activities bound

to be more active, the good Joe to be more unc-

tuously self righteous. It fills a great need on

the campus, for it keeps the chain of American
success unbroken. ‘The Eagle scout becomes an

ODK, the ODK a ggrd degree mason.”

There are undoubtedly some here today who
knew the author of this statement. Though I did not,

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, President
of Mary Baldwin College, Who
Was ‘Tapped for ODK 25 Years
Ago in Lee Chapel, Delivered
This Commentary On Campus
Leadership at the Annual Tap

Day University Assembly.

WINTER 1965

I suspect that there is a strong element of subjectivity
in this judgment. Be that as it may, it obviously means
that in the eyes of some, ODK members have not
embodied the qualities of leadership, character, and
responsibility which ODK professes to recognize. The
fact that ODK is not universally admired suggests
that those of us who do admire it should concern our-
selves with a continuing attempt to clarify its pur-
poses and to see that it remains faithful to them.
What I have to say today is an attempt to contribute
to the process of continuing self-examination.

I do not mean that I am going to launch into an-
other effort to define “leadership.” ‘The word has as
many facets as individuals themselves have. There is,
of course, one which is expected in the make-up of
every ODK member. The by-laws of the national or-
ganization insist that those it honors be better-than-
average in the field of scholarship. Now, obviously it
is mathematically impossible for even a majority of
students to be better than average. Once a high school
senior came in to talk with me about admission to
college. When he seemed a little vague about his aca-
demic standing, I said to him, “Well, are you in the
upper half of your class?”

“Sir,” he answered with great dignity, “I am one
of those who make the upper half possible.’

ODK’s scholarship requirement does not imply
that those who make the top half or the top third
possible are not capable of leadership. On the contrary.

 

F
J

 

The Alpha Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa poses for its annual photographs on the steps of Doremus Gymnasium after the completion
of the tapping ceremony. The five new alumni members of the circle are JOHN M. STEMMONS, °31, of Dallas, front row extreme left;
ARCHIBALD A. SPROUL, ’37, of Staunton, Va., front row center, holding hat; S. L. KopAn, JR., '43, of Memphis, front row third from right;
JAMEs SOMERVILLE, 712, of Washington, D.C., second from right; and JAMES C. AMBLER, ‘18, of New York, second row, third from left.

a

The requirement is rather a recognition by ODK, I
think, that intellectual pursuits are, after all, the pri-
mary purpose for which a college exists and for which
any student should be in college; hence the insistence
that to be honored for all-around leadership, a student
should demonstrate a certain degree of excellence in
this primary area no matter what his other achieve-
ments may be.

If it is permissible, then, to think of every ODK
man as campus scholar, it is almost as accurate to see
him as campus politician. The term politician has
suffered from mildly sinister connotations since Shake-
speare’s time, and to call one a campus politician to-
day is something less than 99-44/100 per cent com-
pliment. But if we accept the term without such con-
notations and think of the politician as one who
rescues the body politic from a state of natural anar-
chy and helps it order itself for constructive action,
then politics becomes one of the legitimate facets of
campus leadership.

But there is another aspect of leadership which
comes before the political. It is with this that I am
concerned today. My thesis is that the really effective
campus leader must, at the same time he is scholar
and as a pre-requisite to being politician, also be

16

campus critic. Natural interests take us into many
varying areas of activity; but regardless of the campus
leader’s chosen area, he must be concerned with its
existing structure, its state of health, and its place
in the campus complex. If he aspires to be a good cam-
pus journalist, for example, he should be able to eval-
uate the strengths and weaknesses of the campus press
and decide what he would do to improve it. In other
words, the ultimate object of social criticism is con-
structive change. Before he can effect constructive
change, the campus leader must first be able to analyze
intelligently and discriminate between what needs to
be changed and what does not.

What I have to say is relevant, then, to campus
leaders, but embraces followers as well. There is a
kind of “priesthood of all believers” in campus criti-
cism. All of us, whether so-called “leaders” or not, are
critics to a greater extent, and for a very good reason.
The liberal studies which engage us in our primary
function as scholars make critics of us all. One of the
first things we learn as we begin a college education,
if we have not learned it before, is to cast ourselves
adrift from the security of the textbook’s authority,
to regard as sacrosanct neither the printed word nor
the man who wrote it. In the humanities and the so-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

cial sciences, as well as in the laboratory, we are taught
to dissect, to analyze, to discriminate. The astute fresh-
man soon learns that one of the most rewarding forms
of gamesmanship in the taking of examinations is to
disagree boldly with recognized authority.

It is neither surprising nor alarming, though it
sometimes causes a lot of letter writing by those
of us in college administration, that this critical atti-
tude quickly carries over into other realms—into a
critique of curriculum, faculty, campus organizations,
and what have you. There is a discontent on American
campuses today which was not nearly so discernible a
generation ago. Though I suspect that much of this
discontent is not divine, I am aware that the college
community is no exception to Whitehead’s observa-
tion that in any living civilization there is always an
element of unrest. It might even be claimed that if
liberal education is doing its job, the degree of criti-
cism and unrest on a college campus is a measure of
the curriculum’s effectiveness. To reduce it to the ab-
surd, perhaps the best college is that which its students
seem to consider the worst.

But the same liberal education which informs its
disciples with a penchant and a capacity for criticism
must, if it is thoroughly effective, go one step further.
It must also give the critic an awareness of the fact
that he does not act in vacuo, but rather in an estab-
lished framework of temporal, spatial, and human re-
lationships which inescapably limit his perspective
and his potential. For the student critic these boun-
daries are especially confining.

For example, he operates within a severely limited
time span. ‘The critic who would like to reform cam-
pus society must recognzie that he comes on to the
stage in the second act of the play, speaks his few lines,
and is back in the wings again while the drama goes
on without him. Since he is present neither for the
Opening curtain nor the final one, he cannot afford
to analyze or criticize with the assurance he might
otherwise possess.

The campus critic also operates from a base of
limited experience. Because he really knows only one
college, the temptation to generalize from the parti-
cular lies in his path as an ever-present pitfall. He
must assume that he is able to judge what life in the
collegiate world is really like, but with the exception
of a little help from hearsay evidence, he has only his
own campus as a basis of comparison. The fact that his
own college is one of 2,000 in this country alone means
that his research material is very sparse indeed.

The collegiate critic also operates without the re-
straint of potential ultimate responsibility. In the
world beyond the campus, the social criticism of poli-
ticlans is normally tempered by the knowledge and
hope that sooner or later, Pogo’s hourglass of responsi-

WINTER 1965

bility will again be turned upside down, putting the
outs in and the ins out. But the campus critic knows
that he will rarely be called upon to direct or control
the social change to which his criticism may con-
tribute. ‘This knowledge can often serve as heady wine.
In one sense it gives him a special freedom; in another,
it deprives him of the ballast which would keep his
criticism from escaping into a realm above reality and
practical possibility.

It is easy to see that these limitations are a source
of real frustration to student critics. Take that of time
alone. I can well remember, as my own senior year in
college slipped away, the feeling that we must make
desperate haste if we were to cure all the ills and
right all the wrongs before we left the college to navi-
gate without us. Unhappily, this frustration often
leads the campus critic into errors which dull the edge
of his effectiveness and can, indeed, destroy him. Some-
times he yields to the temptation to rely on rumor
rather than fact. We once had a campus columnist

 

Senior JAMES DE YOUNG, left, laps S. L. KOPALD, JR., 43, while the
ODK assembly looks on.

who laid about him with a will, and wandered far
aficld in doing so, After one of his major aberrations
from accuracy, I asked him WAY he hadn’t come to
me before writing the column. “I could have given you
the facts on this in five minutes,” I told him. “I didn’t
want the facts,” he answered blandly. “If I had had
them, I wouldn’t have had any story.”

Often the campus critic falls into the trap of ana-
lyzing and criticizing on the basis of partial knowl-
ec ss just as most of us do in many areas.

Sometimes his frustrations lead him to depart from
issues to indulge in arguments ad hominem, and even
to descend to personal vilification. But the sin that
besets most critics is that of pride, coming as it does
when we are most confident of our position on the
issue at hand. ‘The very certainty of our logic and mor-
al rectitude leads us to run roughshod over those who
have the temerity to raise an opposing voice.

Though such shortcomings are understandable,
they are nevertheless inexcusable, for they are betray-

17

als of the liberal tradition which strikes off the critical
spark in the first place. Liberal education, exalting
truth as it does, cannot condone analysis based on
half truth or distortion. Committed to rational in-
quiry, it firmds incompatible the emotionalism which
usually characterizes personal attack. Its Openness to
varying points of view is stranger to the intolerance of
dogmatism.

The limitations, the temptations, the snares and
pitfalls suggest that the campus critic must be, though
it is often unexciting to do so, relatively temperate if
his criticism is to remain consistently valid. If he
develops a critical faculty without an awareness of the
framework which limits his criticism, he is likely to
become merely a rebel without a cause and to lapse
into that conformity of complaint characteristic of
many American campuses.

To suggest that campus criticism has built-in limi-
tations does not for a moment negate the thesis which
I began, i.e., that an effective leader must be funda-

 

DAN FRANK J. GILLIAM, left, enjoys a laugh with JAMEs

C. AMBLER, 718, afler the ODK tapping ceremony. AM-

BLER was one of the five alumni members tapped for
membership.

mentally an intelligent critic of the society in which
he lives. Fortunately the student critic has special
points of competence. Unceasingly renewed as it is
year by year, the corps of campus critics brings a
fresh point of view to bear on problems of the col-
legiate body politic. Lacking a crystallized mind-set,
each new generation can attack old problems with
original strategies. The very inexperience of the cam-
pus critic often makes him willing to endure the dif-
ficulties and rebuffs of trial-and-error that older heads
have learned to avoid. He has strength, enthusiasm,
and ingenuity, unshackled as he is by the fetters of
the past which gradually fasten themselves upon all
of us. All of these qualities contribute to make him
in many ways an excellent critic of the collegiate
community with which we are concerned.

Not long ago while riding along the highway |
listened to a news report which stated that the two

18

hundred inch telescope at Mt. Palomar has discovered
seven new galaxies at the farthest known points in the
universe. ‘The distances—which run into billions of
light years—transcend human understanding. But the
most interesting part of the report to me was the
statement that these galaxies, consistent with the
theory of the expanding universe, are thought to be
moving even farther away from earth at an incredibly
rapid rate. The immense gap is widening all the time.

This reminded me of Camus’s gap between the
mind that desires and the world that disappoints. Cer-
tainly our society falls disappointingly short of what
we would like it to be. Similarly, our colleges and uni-
versities rarely live up to their ideals. This is why the
critical function is essential to real leadership. If lib-
eral education does make critics of us all, we must
be concerned lest the gap between what we want to
be and what we are widen even further.

The spate of critical journalism, the disillusion-
ment among collegians with ideals which were satis-
fying to past generations, the apathy toward parts of
college experience which were important to fathers
and grandfathers—all have helped to create the wide-
spread fear that the gulf between profession and _per-
formance is indeed widening in the American college
today. Certainly we are not without our problems, but
then, we have never been. It may be that we are simply
in the process of exchanging old problems for new.

On the campus as well as in society at large, this
exchange of old problems for new, or at least of old
problems for the same ones in new form, has been the
essence of social history.

It is obvious that collegiate culture today does
have its problems and that some of them seem to be
in interminable form. ‘The American campus can use
some constructive direction and leadership. Some of
this direction must come, I believe, from the faculties
and administration, which in too many instances, have
been unable or unwilling to speak with a_ positive
VOIce.

But the course must also be steered by student
leaders who successfully combine an effective critical
voice with the ability to act creatively in various areas
of campus life. The real leaders in the past have rare-
ly, if ever, been mere defenders of the status quo; they
are usually those who have been able to analyze in-
telligently the ills of their own time and to exert some
influence toward constructive change. ‘They have done
so, in most cases, by being not just critics but percep-
tive ones, philosophers of the possible who understand
both the function and limitations of criticism.

It is men like this who will deserve ODK’s acco-
lade. Their selection will not only give encouragement
to their kind of effective campus leadership, but will
also justify the continued existence of ODK itself.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ODK: Hanes Five Alwnni

IVE DISTINGUISHED alumni of

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity and eleven undergraduate and
law students were tapped for mem-
bership in Omicron Delta Kappa
at the national honorary leader-
ship society’s 50th anniversary “tap
day” assembly in Doremus Gym-
nasium.

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, president
of Mary Baldwin College, who was
tapped for ODK himself in a spe-
cial 25th anniversary ceremony in
Lee Chapel a quarter century earl-
ier, delivered the ODK address. Dr.
Spencer is a graduate of Davidson
College, and represented his school

at the 25th anniversary convoca-—

tion at Washington and Lee, where
ODK was founded in 1914.

Alumni honored at the Decem-
ber assembly included:

James C. Ambler, °18, of New
York, chairman of the Board of
Directors, Ginn = and Company,
publishers of educational materi-
als.

S. L. Kopald, Jr., ’43, of Mem-
phis, Tenn., vice-president of Hum-
ko Products and a prominent Mem-
phis civic leader.

James Somerville, 12, of Wash-
ington, D.C., former state de-
partment official and now a con-
sultant to engineering companies
doing business in foreign countries.

Maj. Gen. Archibald A. Sproul,
III, °37, of Staunton, Va., vice-presi-
dent of W. J. Perry Corporation
and president of Perry-Sproul
Mortgage Investment Company,
and recently designated command-
ing general of the ggth Infantry
Division of the National Guard.

John M. Stemmons, ’31, of Dal-
las, ‘Texas, president of Industrial
Properties Corporation and _presi-
dent of the Dallas Citizens Coun-
cil.

Student initiates included:

Seniors Stephen ‘T. Hibbard,
Pittsfield, Mass.; L. Shannon Jung,
Alexandria, La.; Larry M. Meeks,
Thomaston, Ga.; and Jon A. Su-
pak, Virginia Beach, Va.

Juniors
Fairfield, Conn.; Frederick M.
Mindel, ‘Toledo, O.; and Charles
G. Walker, III, San Antonio, Tex.

Law students Jimmy Delp Bow-
ie, Galax, Va.; Frank E. Brown,

‘Tulsa, Okla.; Robert T. Mitchell,

David N. Marchese,

Jr., Alexandria, Va.; and Robert

S. Pless, Galax, Va.

F. Lamar Lamb, a senior from
Roswell, N.M., was also tapped
for membership but declined the
invitation to join ODK. In a subse-
quent column in the Ring-tum Phi,
Lamb explained his action as “a
protest against the method and re-
sults of the selection of new mem-
bers to the ‘leadership fraternity’.”’

He added, “There have been
and are members of ODK whose
principal characteristic is inoffen-
siveness and malleability rather
than intelligence and leadership.”

Lamb concluded:

“T hope ODK will seek to estab-
lish more objective standards of
selection which will eliminate some
of the pettiness that has entered
into past selections. And most im-
portant, I hope that ODK will take
to heart the words of the man who
spoke in its assembly, that there
is no leadership where there is not
effective, responsible criticism.”

The speaker, Dr. Spencer, who
was unaware that Lamb would be
tapped or that he would refuse the
selection to membership, referred
earlier in his address to a similar
refusal of membership by a student
critic of the leadership society at
another college.

Daily Meditation Periods Now Held in Lee Chapel

HISTORIC LEE CHAPEL, where Rob-
ert E. Lee attended daily services
when president of Washington Col-
lege, again is figuring in the spirit-
ual life of the students at the uni-
versity.

Begining in December, a 15-min-
ute period was set aside daily ex-
cept Saturday for meditation or
prayer by students, faculty, and the
public.

Tours through the chapel by vis-
itors are discontinued during the
meditation period, but visitors are
welcome to participate if they wish,
according to Dr. David W. Sprunt,

WINTER 1965

university chaplain.

Monday through Friday the med-
itation period is from 1:45 to 2:00
p-m. and on Sunday from 5:00 to
5:15 p-m. Benjamin V. Johnson, a
freshman from Chesapeake, Va.,
plays sacred music at the chapel’s
Erben organ during the medita-
tion period.

Lee Chapel was constructed in
1867 under the supervision of Gen-
eral Lee who attended daily wor-
ship services there during his pres-
idency of Washington College from
1865 to his death in 1870. A small
plaque marks the pew where Lee

sat during these services. After his
death daily chapel services were
discontinued, but voluntary regu-
lar programs have been revived
from time to time for short periods.

Dr. Sprunt said the present plan

makes worship or meditation at the

chapel a_ voluntary, individual
matter. He said that formal regu-
lar services and vespers had been
generally unsuccessful.

“It was felt that the university
has a spiritual obligation to make
some use of the Lee Chapel for the
purpose for which it was built,”
said Dr. Sprunt.

a?

‘Two Students ‘lake
Leaves of Absence
For Survey Work

In the Pacific Ocean

m TWO WASHINGTON AND LEE geology
majors are taking a year’s leave of
absence from the university for a
10o-month cruise of the Pacific
Ocean.

The ports-of-call include ‘Tahiti,
Honolulu, and ‘Tokyo, but it won't
be all a pleasure cruise for the pair,
Warren Montgomery of Memphis,
Tenn., and Charles Harvey (Chip)
Roadman II of Colorado Springs,
Colo. Their ship, the Vema, is a
200-foot, three-masted schooner
equipped for research in ocean-
ography—or a study of the geogra-
phy of the ocean.

The ship, operated by Lamont
Geological Observatory—a graduate
branch of Columbia University—
sailed from New York City Feb. 10.
It is equipped to map the ocean
floor through seismic or shock wave
soundings, take water samples,
measure water depths by record-
ing sound echoes and study the
earth’s magnetic field below the
ocean.

It also can take samples of the
earth’s crust up to 60 feet in length.
It can photograph the deepest parts
of the ocean. It has devices to test
sound propagation, which is used
in detecting submarines.

Montgomery and Roadman, both
juniors, have each expressed an in-
terest in making this field their
life’s work. Their 10-month cruise
came about when Montgomery be-
ean making inquiries seeking sum-
mer employment.

Lamont Observatory will pay
them for their work aboard the ves-
sel. But the experience in their
chosen field is their main objec-
tive.

“It is invaluable experience, one
that can never be duplicated,” said

20

 

 

Mrs. Gaines Receives Portrait

# A portrait of the late Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines was presented to
Mrs. Gaines at her Lexington home last spring by William Noel, President
of the Student Body, and Fred E. Cooper, representing the Interfraternity
Council, as a tribute of esteem and affection from the students of Washing-

ton and Lee.

Mrs. Martin M. Cooper of Thomasville, Georgia, Fred’s mother,
painted the splendid likeness of Dr. Gaines from photographs. he like-
ness most resembles a photograph that was a favorite of Dr. Gaines.

In Mrs. Gaines’ home the portrait hangs on the living room wall op-
posite a framed resolution of the Virginia legislature, passed shortly after
Dr. Gaine’s death on December 31, 1963.

Dr. Edgar W. Spencer, head of research in the area of North Af-

Washington and Lee’s geology de-
partment, who himself spent some
time aboard the Vema doing ocean

rica, the Azores and Lisbon, Port-
ugal while studying at Columbia in

1954-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

National Science Foundation
Grants Help the University
Buy Laboratory Equipment

m NEW SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT worth
approximately $79,000 has been
purchased by Washington and Lee
University with the help of Nation-
al Science Foundation grants.

The grants are awarded by the
NSF on a matching basis to pur-
chase scientific equipment for use
in instructing undergraduates. ‘The
NSF grants, totaling $39,480, were
matched on a 50-50 basis by the
university.

‘The equipment purchased ranges
from a new telescope and a laser for
the physics department to a glass-
blowing lathe for the chemistry
department to an expensive x-ray
defraction and emission machine
for the geology department.

The largest sum, totaling $32,-
000, went to the physics depart-
ment “and has been used to im-
prove practically every physics
course we teach,” said Dr. Edward
F. ‘Turner, Jr., head of the depart-
ment.

The biggest expenditures in
physics were made for the 12-inch
reflector telescope for the observa-
tory and for all the laboratory
equipment in a modern physics lab.
Demonstration equipment includ-
ed the laser, an analog computer,
a tension and compression machine,
a blueprinting machine, a mono-
chrometer, an oscilloscope, and a
spectograph.

The geology department used its
sum of $26,960 to purchase the x-
ray defraction and emission ma-
chine. ‘The university’s matching
sum was made possible largely
through a gift from the General
Electric Company.

“This machine opens up possi-

WINTER 1965

bilities for courses and_ reseach
never before possible,” said Dr. Ed-
gar W. Spencer, head of the de-
partment. _

‘The defraction machine will be
used to study the crystal structure
of minerals and compounds; the
emission machine—not found in
many colleges or universities in the
country—will be used in making
chemical analyses of rocks and soil
samples.

“It gives us a way of identifying
unknown minerals and of analyzing
the composition of material,” Dr.
Spencer said.

The chemistry sum, totaling
$20,000, serves a dual purpose—
providing equipment to strength-
en the advanced laboratory courses
and adding to the versatility of the
university's Robert E. Lee under-
graduate research program.

The equipment includes the
glass lathe, a calorimeter, spectro-
photometer, potentiometric record-
er, ground glass kits, balance, gas
chromatograph, colorimeters and
pH meters.

In addition to the grants for
equipment, Washington and Lee
professors have received several
other NSF grants to finance stu-
dent research in the departments of
chemistry, physics, geology, and psy-
chology.

Under the program, students are
paid for their hours of work on the
research project—usually 13-14
hours a week during the academic
year. A separate 10-week summer
program pays the students a week-
ly salary for 40 hours of work a
week on their projects.

The NSF undergraduate research

program is similar to Washington
and Lee’s own Robert E. Lee Re-
search Program for Undergradu-
ates, established in 1960-61 under
a special endowment which pro-
vides grants-in-aid for student re-
searchers. Unlike the NSF program,
the Lee research projects may be in
the humanities as well as in the
sciences and social sciences.

“It’s been a tremendous thing,”
said Dr. L. E. Jarrard, associate
professor of psychology. “It en-
courages independent student re-
search and it provides the students
with a good opportunity for them
to see if they want to go into this
field of work. Most of those who
have done research under the pro-
gram have gone on to graduate
school, either in medicine or psy-
chology.” |

Most of the psychology research
projects have dealt with the effects
of drugs and brain damage to such
things as the sense of taste and
Short-term memory, using white
rats as experimental animals.

After completing their projects,
the students present summaries of
their work to the university and to
NSF. The four students currently
working on psychology experiments
will give reports on their projects
to the Virginia Academy of Science
meeting in Richmond in May.

Four students also are currently
doing projects in chemistry. Four
others did research in physics last
summer and four others have ap-
phed for the grants this summer.

“The program gives us a chance
to work closely and individually
with the serious undergraduate
student,” said Dr. S. J. Kozak, as-
sistant professor of geology. “The
students can learn research tech-
niques much better that way.”

All the professors involved men-
tioned that the program also means
the Washington and Lee science
facilities are being used the entire
year rather than just the nine-
month academic session.

21

ete
os.
ct

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mock Convention
Interim Group
Seeks Continuity

™@ WASHINGTON AND LEE students,
proud of the accuracy of their mock
political conventions, have taken
steps they hope will insure contin-
ued accuracy.

A committee of students, under
the sponsorship of the student gov-
ernment Executive Committee,
plans to keep lines of communica-
tion open between the mock con-
vention leadership and national po-

litical leaders.

Washington and Lee students
have been right nine times out of
13 In previous mock conventions
including a record four straight in
the last four conventions.

In the past, when the months of
planning for the mock convention
began, the leaders have had to start
practically from scratch. One of the
first things they do is find a law
student or faculty member who re-
members how it was done four
vears before. Past chairmen have
commented that their work would
have been -asier if some
sort of coordination between mock
conventions was maintained. Now,
hopefully, the students plan to do

just that.

much

“We hope to keep in touch with
the Republican leaders in every
state,’ said H. Davis Mayfield III of
Bryan, Tex., one of two “interim
coordinators’ appointed by the
Executive Committee to keep the
ball rolling between conventions.
The other is Stephen R. Saunders
of Elmont, N. Y. Serving with them
is a nine-member group of regional
managers. ‘he country has been
divided into nine geographic
areas—upper South, midwest, etc.—
and the job of the regional man-
agers is to keep in contact with
members of the Republican Na-
Committee and

tional leading

WINTER 1965

 

Delta Tau Delta Starts New House

= CHAPTER PRESIDENT Rob Vaughan wields the spade to break ground for

the new chapter house of Delta ‘Tau Delta, while faculty adviser Prof.

Robert E. R. Huntley, ’57, center, and other chapter officers look on. The

Delt house was destroyed by fire in September and is being rebuilt on the

same site. Special features will include a 300-person-capacity lounge, a

TV room, and sound-proof study rooms.

members of the party in their re-
spective The
also hopes to establish a national

areas. committee
advisory board of leading Republi-
cans, such as Gen. Eisenhower,
Richard Nixon and Barry Gold-
water, to keep it posted of Repub-
lican thinking.

“We are aiming at continued ac-
curacy in our mock conventions,’
said Mayfield. ‘““We hope to make
trips to Washington to meet con-
eressmen and senators. And we
hope to bring in a ‘name’ Repub-
lican speaker each year to keep in-
terest up among the students.”

Another function is to explore
convention financing. Last year’s
mock convention cost an estimated
$12,000 to stage. While Washington
and Lee provides the facilities and
suspends classes for several days
during the convention, the students
themselves conduct the convention
and thus must bear the expenses.

‘The

plore the possibility of establish-

interim committee will ex-
ing a non-profit mock convention
corporation that could accept tax-
deductible gifts.

The committee is non-partisan.
The two coordinators couldn’t be
much further apart politically and
Mayfield worked
last summer for the Democratic
National Committee in Washing-
ton. Saunders served as editor of a
teenage Republican newspaper and

geographically.

as coordinator of youth activities
for the Nassau County, N. Y., Re-
publican Committee.

They and their committee have
been so active that several Wash-
ington and Lee officials, who have
had close contact with previous
mock conventions, have expressed
concern that the interim committee
may be so overzealous it will burn
itself out and “peak’”’ too soon be-
fore the 1968 convention.

University Plans
To Hold Language
Institute for High
School Teachers

= FOR EIGHT WEEKS this summer,
Washington and Lee University’s
Evans Dining Hall will resemble
the cafeteria at the United Nations,
with small groups of people, some
of them foreigners, conversing in
French or Spanish at each meal.

They will be taking part in a
Summer Language Institute, spon-
sored by the U.S. Office of Educa-
tion, June 21-Aug 13, the first such
institute to be located at Washing-
ton and Lee and the first held in
Virginia in three years.

The whole idea is to help secon-
dary school teachers do a better job
of teaching. At the institute, they
will speak and hear the language
they teach—both in the classroom
through lectures and direct conver-
sation, and in informal conversa-
tion at lunch and dinner.

‘Through Washington and Lee’s
language laboratory, the partici-
pants will learn the latest in teach-
ing methods and techniques. ‘They
will also learn something of the cul-
ture and civilization of the French
and Spanish peoples. Classes for
the 64 participants—32 in each lan-
guage—will be taught in the univer-
sity’s duPont Hall.

The institute is designed not for
the school teacher who is already
well versed in how to teach a for-
eign language—but for the teacher
who is not so accomplished. Wash-
ington and Lee’s application for
the institute notes: “With the
growing demand for foreign lan-
guage outstripping the supply of
trained teachers and the funds to
attract them, many school officials
in Virginia and surrounding states,
especially in the rural areas, are
forced to assign a foreign language
class to anyone on the staff who

24

 

Dr. L. LOMAS BARRETT

happens to have had 12 hours of
undergraduate credit in the lan-
guage.”

Applicants for the institute at
Washington and Lee are required
specifically to declare that their
proficiency in the language they
teach is minimal or less. Another
requirement is that the applicant
agree to live in a university dormi-
tory (“language house’) and use
the foreign language at all times,
even in conversing at the dinner
table.

Those who complete the course
successfully will receive eight se-
mester hours of credit toward a
master’s degree, which they may
transfer to schools awarding gradu-
ate degrees. Washington and Lee
offers no graduate degrees at pres-
ent.

Dr. L. L. Barrett, head of the
department of romance languages
at Washington and Lee, will direct
the institute. His staff will include
Dr. G. Francis Drake, Washington
and Lee professor of French, and
Dr. C. Westbrook Barritt, profes-
sor of modern languages at Wash-
ington and Lee.

Other staff members are Dr. Mar-
cel Tetel, assistant professor of
French at Duke University and a
native of Paris; Fernando Charro,
instructor in Spanish at Duquesne
University and a native of Salam-
anca, Spain; Gary J. Ambert, in-
structor in Spanish at the Univer-
sity of Pittsburgh who directed the
language laboratory for the Peace
Corps training program at North
Carolina State University;

Also, Eva Maria Nieto, a Span-
ish specialist for Reed Union
School District, California; James
P. Ward, French teacher at J. E.
B. Stuart High School, Falls
Church, Va., and Joann B. ‘Tench,
head of the foreign language de-
partment at Swanson Junior High
School, Arlington, Va.

= DR. LINTON LOMAS BARRETT, head
of the department of romance
languages at Washington and Lee,
has been named a fellow in the Co-
operative Program in the Humani-
ties sponsored by Duke University
and the University of North Caro-
lina.

Under the program, Dr. Barrett
will conduct research at the two
North Carolina universities during
the 1965-66 academic year. He will
investigate the methods used by the
Spanish in staging plays in the late
16th century, when theaters were
first becoming popular.

Dr. Barrett said most of his re-
search will be conducted at Duke
and the University of North Caro-
lina, with possibly a few weeks do-
ing research in Madrid.

Two other Washington and Lee
professors are currently participat-
ing in the program. Dr. C. West-
brook Barritt, professor of romance
languages, is doing research on
studies of transformational gram-
mar in Spanish. Dr. Leon F. Sen-
sabaugh, professor of history, is
doing research for a book on recent
United States-Brazilian relations.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A Debate Coach’s
Unusual Attitude

* * *

Challenging Work
For ‘Iwo Professors

# IT MATTERS NOT whether you win
or lose, but whether you played
the game.

With inspiration
such as these from their energetic
coach, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity’s debate team members set
out in all directions to compete this

words of

year.

Debate coach William W. Chaf-
fin, who doubles as an assistant
professor of English, philosophizes
it’s better to participate than to
win. Accordingly, instead of hold-
ing tryouts, picking the best debat-
crs and sending them to selective
meets, Chaffin tries to send as many
boys to as many meets as he can
find.

Consequently, debate teams from
Washington and Lee will have
competed in as many as six differ-
a_ five-week
period. During one eight-week
stretch last semester, W&L debaters
took part in a tournament each
weekend.

ent tournaments in

“And for every invitation we ac-
cept, we turn down two,” comment-
ed Chaffin.

“Unlike football or basketball,
where the season lasts only two
months or so, our season goes on all
year, from early fall to late spring.
It would be a tremendous _ hard-
ship on a boy to ask him to com-
pete in a debate tournament every
weekend. It’s usually a two or
three-day trip.”

Thus, with a “hard core” of 20
team members and another 20-30
students who like to debate occa-
sionally, Chaffin has drawn up var-

WINTER 1965

 

Dr. DUVALL PROF.

ious and sundry teams to compete
in as many meets as possible.

‘Thus it was that a few weekends
@ DR. SEVERN P. C. DUVALL, head of
Washington and Lee’s Department
of English, will contribute a_vol-
ume of a broad new series of books
on Southern Literature.

Dr. Duvall will write on South-
ern Romance. ‘The series, to be
edited by Dr. Louis D. Rubin, Jr.
of Hollins College, will encompass
the field of Southern literature
from its beginning to the present
day. ‘The series will include books
of criticism, historical research, bio-
graphical studies, intellectual and
cultural history, and thematic stud-
ies. Che first volume is slated for
publication by the Louisiana State
University Press late this year.

back, one four-man squad compet-
ed in a debate tournament at Dart-
mouth while a two-man team par-
ticipated in another tourney at
Richmond. Two weeks later, a com-
pletely new four-man team com-
peted at Duke University.

The won-lost record may not be
as high as W&L debate teams of
the past, but Chaffin likes to think
his boys are batting 1.000 on par-
ticipation.

‘“That’s the important thing—
that they participate and get the
experience,” said Chafhn.

CHAFFIN

Dr. SPENCER

@ DR. EDGAR W. SPENCER, 753, head
of Washington and Lee’s geology
department, will take a year’s leave
of absence for study in New Zea-
land and ‘Tasmania.

Dr. Spencer has received a Na-
tional Science Foundation faculty
fellowship to pay for his travel and
living expenses. He will leave in
August for a six-month stay at the
University of Auckland in New
Zealand, followed by six months at
the University of ‘Tasmania.

Dr. Spencer will study the rela-
tionship between the origin of
island arc systems and_ folded
mountain belts. He explains that
the Appalachian mountains are an
example of foulded mountain belts,
while such island chains as_ the
Aleutians—numerous islands, many
of them of volcanic nature, in a
curved line—are examples of island
arc systems. “It is widely felt that
such mountain belts were once
island arcs,” Dr. Spencer adds.

In New Zealand, Dr. Spencer
will compare the geology of a group
of mountains, called the New Zea-
land Alps, with nearby islands to
see what relation they have to each
other, if any.

In Tasmania, Dr. Spencer will
work with Warren Carey of the
University of ‘Tasmania geology de-
partment in a similar study of the
relation of Australian mountains
with islands north of Australia.

hn
cr

Some Lead a Dog’s Life at W&L...

 

 

 

The usual enrollment — of

campus dogs seemed larger

this year. They took the air

on the front campus in the

mornings, then worked out

with the athletic teams in
the afternoons.

 

 

Academic Honors Come to Many Seniors

m TWO WASHINGTON AND LEE seniors,
Jon A. Supak of Virginia Beach
and E. Morgan Kelley, Jr., of New-
ington, Conn., have been awarded
Woodrow Wilson Fellowships for
graduate study.

‘The two are among the 1,395 re-
cipients named by the Woodrow
Wilson National Fellowship Foun-
dation from the more than 11,000
faculty-nominated college seniors
in the U.S. and Canada. The fel-
lowships are designed to recruit
new college teachers.

Recipients will receive tuition

26

and fixed fees at the graduate
school of their choice, plus $1,800
for living expenses. Extra allow-
ances are made for children. The
eraduate fellowships for the 1965-
66 academic year are expected to
total $5 million.

Supak, a philosophy major, isa
member of the university’s honor
roll and dean’s list for academic
achievement. He varsity
basketball for two years, is a mem-
ber of the college newspaper staf
and president of his social fra-
ternity, Zeta Beta ‘Tau. He plans

played
éd

to do graduate work toward his
Ph.D. in philosophy.

Kelley, a German major, also is
a member of the honor roll and
dean’s list and has participated in
lacrosse and soccer. Kelley plans to
study for his Ph.D. in German at
either Rice or Northwestern.

Stephen P. Smith, III, an Eng-
lish major from Jacksonville, Fla.,
was named to the foundation's
honorable mention list. The names
of the 1,242 on this list will be cir-
culated among graduate schools
and many are expected to receive

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

alternate awards from other

sources.
Danforth
Graduate Fellowship for advanced

Supak, also won a

study toward his Ph.D. degree.

Supak is among the 127 persons
announced as recipients of the fel-
lowships by the Danforth Founda-
tion of St. Louis, Mo. Approxi-
mately 1,800 college seniors com-
peted for the awards. ‘The fellow-
ship provides tuition and_ living
expenses for four years of study in
preparation for a career in college
teaching.

Nearly 1,100 Danforth Fellow-
ships have been awarded since the
program was established in 19532.
More than 400 of these have ob-
tained their Ph.D. degrees and are
now in colleges and universities.

gw FOUR WASHINGTON AND LEE. stu-
dents have been chosen for mem-
bership in the Gamma of Virginia
chapter of Omicron Delta Epsilon,
national honorary society for stu-
dents of economics.

They are seniors ‘Timothy A.
Vanderver, Jr., Birmingham, Ala.;
William Ingles, White Marsh, Va.;
Robert F. Stauffer, Frederick, Md.;
and junior Charles G. Walker, III,
San Antonio, Tex.

mg ROBERT BOYD PATTON, a senior in
the School of Commerce and Ad-
ministration, has been awarded a
scholarship — for

special two-year

graduate study at the University of

Virginia.

The scholarship was established
recently by the University of Vir-
ginia Business School Sponsors for
a Washington and Lee graduate
working toward his master’s degree
in business administration at the
University of Virginia.
® THIRTEEN STUDENTS and_ three
1964 graduates have been elected to
membership in Phi Beta Kappa at
Washington and Lee University.

WINTER 1965

 

JON A. SUPAK

Included are ten seniors, three sen-
ior law students and the three grad-
uates,

The seniors are William S. At-
well, Hampton; Charles C. Bright,
Richmond; Christopher M. Kell,
Haddonfield, N. J.; E. Morgan
Kelley, Jr., Newington, Conn.;
Max L. Shapira, Louisville, Ky.;
Llewellyn H. Smith, Atlanta;
Stephen...P. Smith; “TH, Jackson-
ville, Fla.; Jon A. Supak, Virginia
Beach; Timothy A, Vanderver, Jr.,

 

EK. MORGAN KELLEY, JR.

Birmingham, and John 1.
Portsmouth, Ohio.

Yeary,

The senior law students are
Frank E. Brown, Jr., Tulsa, Okla.;
Robert ‘T. Mitchell, Lexington,
and Robert S. Pless, Galax. ‘The
1964 graduates are Charles C. Flip-
pen, Fri, Hairy A.
Greene, Martinsville, and Robert
A. Paddock, Redding, Conn.

Richmond;

e Four Washington and Lee Uni-
versity students have been elected
to membership in the Beta of Vir-
ginia chapter of Beta Gamma Sig-
ma, an honor society which recog-
nizes outstanding academic achieve-
ment by students of business ad-
ministration.

The four are William C. Wash-
burn, Jr. of Lexington; Robert C.
DeVaney, Dell Rapids, S. D.; Doug-
las D. Hagestad, Metairie, La.;
and Robert B. Patton, Springfield,
Ohio. Founded in 1913 and estab-
lished at Washington and Lee in
1933, Beta Gamma Sigma _ elects
new members from seniors and
juniors majoring in commerce.

Original Music
By ‘Three Students
Heard On Program

m# ORIGINAL COMPOSITIONS by three
Washington and Lee University
were presented at the
spring conference of the college
section of the Virginia Music Edu-
cators Association at Mary Wash-
ington College in February. ie

students

The University’s John A. Gra-
ham Brass Choir participated in the
performance of the compositions.

Washington and Lee student
composers and their works includ-
ed William Atwell, senior from
Hampton, “Prelude for Brass Quin-
tet’; Stephen Millard, Miami, Fla.,
junior, “Movement for Brass,” and
John R. McGill, a sophomore from
Fanwood, N. J., “Three Pieces for
Four “Trumpets.”

27

New Personnel Join University
Data Processing, Publicity Staffs

# CHARLES W. LEE has been appoint-
ed supervisor of data processing at
Washington and Lee, replacing
John Baine Fox, who has returned
to his alma mater, Tulane Univer-
sity, to undertake work toward his
master’s degree and to work in the
computer center there.

Lee, 31, has been supervisor of
data processing and a mathematics
instructor at Central Florida Junior
College, Ocala, Fla., since July,
1963.

Lee is a native of Walnut Ridge,
Ark., and is a graduate of Arkan-
sas State Teachers College, from

 

CHARLES W. LEE

which he received his bachelor of.

science in education degree in 1959
and his master’s degree in 1961. He
taught mathematics in the ‘Tyron-
za, Ark., public schools for two
years before receiving a National
Science Foundation grant for sum-
mer study in mathematics and com-
puter programming at Case Insti-
tute of Technology in Cleveland
in 1962.

m JOHN E. HUGHES Of the sports de-
partment of the Charlotte, N.C.,,
Observer, has been appointed assis-
tant director of information. ser-
vices at Washington and Lee.
Hughes, 31, assumed his new du-
ties in January. A 1955 journalism
graduate of Washington and Lee,

28

Hughes was chief of the Roanoke
Times Shenandoah Valley Bureau
in Lexington from 1960 to 1962.

He joined the Charlotte Observ-
er staff in September, 1963, as
make-up man for the sports de-
partment. Previously, he spent
eight years with the Roanoke
Times as a sports and general as-
signment reporter, as a bureau
chief in Lexington and Salem, and
as an assistant state editor. Hughes
was on leave from the Times in
1956-58 for service in the U.S.
Army.

Hughes’ work will involve gen-

 

JOHN E. HUGHES, ’55

eral public relations activities, with
special emphasis on relations with
the press and broadcasting media.
His work will involve sports pub-
licity for Washington and Lee ath-
letic teams, as well as news and fea-
ture writing about general topics
at the university. He is a native of
Roanoke.

m ALAN T. HORWEDEL, associate pro-
fessor of military science at Wash-
ington and Lee University, has
been promoted from the rank of
captain to major in the U.S. Army.

Maj. Horwedel received his gold

leaf insignia from Lt. Col. Richard
H. Brownley, professor of military
science at Washington and Lee.

Troubadours Offer
Ibsen Production
As Second Program

® THE WASHINGTON AND LEE Troub-
adours presented Henrik Ibsen’s
“An Enemy of the People’ as its
second play of the season.

Appearing in the key roles were
senior Charles Bright of Richmond
and junior Starke Sydnor of Lynch-
burg. “Two Lexingtonians—Mrs.
David B. Dickens, a teacher at Lex-
ington High School, and Miss
Elena Prohaska, daughter of Wash-
ington and Lee art instructor Ray
Prohaska and a student at South-
ern Seminary in Buena Vista, also
had leading roles.

The play is an Arthur Miller
adaptation of the Ibsen drama for
the American stage. It was first
presented in New York in 1950.

™ AMONG SPEAKERS and performers
appearing at Washington and Lee
during the winter were:

Dr. James V. Quagliano, profes-
sor of chemistry at Florida State
University, who lectured and con-
ducted a special seminar on chem-
ical compounds.

Dr. Robert Dietrich, professor of
geology at Virginia Polytechnic
Institute, who delivered two lec-
tures and accompanied geology stu-
dents on a field trip.

Dr. Rene de Visme Williamson,
professor of government at Louis-
liana State University and a former
president of the Southern Political
Science Association, spoke under
the auspices of the University

Christian Association.

Dr. George A. Buttrick, faculty
member at Garrett ‘Theological
Seminary, talked about “The Na-
ture of Truth” in a lecture spon-
sored by the Department of Relig-
ion in cooperation with the Univer-
sity Center in Virginia.

Mrs. Ilse Blumenthal-Weiss, poet

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

and lecturer, gave a reading of
modern German poetry in a pro-
gram sponsored by the Department
of German.

Miss Dorothy Lewis presented a
program of piano music in Lee
Chapel in the concert series spon-
sored by the Washington and Lee
Concert Guild.

Uni-
versity Glee Club opened its series

@ THE WASHINGTON AND LEE

of spring concerts with its annual
performance at Lexington High
School March g, and followed with
performances at Mary Washington
College in Fredericksburg March
4 and in Philadelphia March 5-6.

‘The Fredericksburg performance
was a joint concert with the Mary
Washington College choir. In
Philadelphia, the glee club per-
formed at the Shriners Hospital
for Crippled Children and _pre-
sented a joint concert with the
Bryn Mawr College choir.

The glee club also will perform
for the annual Easter Sunrise Ser-

 

 

The Glee Club sings for its picture on the front campus lawn, while a movie camera
records it for a forthcoming film on Robert E. Lee.

vice April 18 at Natural Bridge.
Also taking part will be the Hol-
The
will be broadcast over a statewide

lins College choir. service
network, with nationwide pickup
a possibility.

The 65-voice glee club is under
the direction of Prof. Robert Stew-
art. The John A. Graham Brass

Choir is performing with the glee
club and is also under Prof. Stew-
art’s direction.

‘The Brass Choir presents a 20-
minute program of 16th century
and contemporary music, while the
glee club’s 1965 program includes
a variety of religious, folk, humor-
ous and show music.

WINTER 1965

 

A Quiz

On Columns

The Columns of each of the five buildings
which make up Washington and Lee’s
famous Colonnade are different in major
and minor details. Test your memory as
to which column bases are found before
each building. Answers on page 35.

 

 

   

Fancy Dress 1 965

The theme for 1965's Fancy Dress Ball was a Missis-
sippi riverboat in the first days of the Confederacy. Pres-
ident Dick Kreitler, upper left with Miss Phyllis McEvoy,
looked appropriately like a cardsharp, as did others, and
the gambling motif brought a message from one dancer
who showed up as John the Baptist. One young spectator
couldn’t cope with the late hours and curled up in the
nearest chair. At the Saturday concert in Doremus Gym,
the Lettermen sang, couples looked dreamy-eyed, and
feet dangled overhead.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Wrestling Team,

Varsity Swimmers Post

Good 1965 Campaigns

m= THE FORTUNES of winter sports
brought good records to two Wash-
ington and Lee athletic teams, a so-
so showing for another, and a dis-
mal suffering for still another.

Coach Dick Miller’s wrestlers
fought their way to a highly success-
ful 7-3-1 season that included vic-
tories over North Carolina, N. CG.
State, and Duke, and a thrill-
packed 12-12 tie match with Vir-
ginia in the season finale.

Sophomore Dick Musick, with a
10-1 season performance, and senior
Pete Winfield, with a 9-1 mark,
were the stars of a squad that dis-
played good balance and_ better
than usual depth.

In swimming the Generals splash-
ed to their fifth straight winning
season under Coach Norris East-
man, setting eight pool records
while winning seven meets and los-
ing four.

Eastman’s enthusiastic approach
to varsity swimming has attracted
large numbers of students to the
sport, particularly among freshmen
and sophomores. ‘The 1964-65 team
will lose only three seniors, so pros-
pects for more record-breaking
performances are good.

The rifle team, which labors in
noisy isolation, turned in a 3-7
scorecard for the year. Sgt. James
McSheffrey of the ROTC depart-
ment coaches the General shooters.

Despite a gloomy 2-17 final tally,
the Generals’ basketball team, un-
der new head coach Verne Canfield,

WINTER 1965

was the center of interest on the
winter sports scene.

Canfield attacked his assignment
of rebuilding Washington and Lee
basketball with a vengeance, but he
found that tricky game strategy and
tactics, new uniforms, dressing
room gimmicks, and an energetic
publicity campaign couldn’t make
up for a lack of experience and fi-
nesse on the part of his spirited but
generally out-manned _ players.

‘The Generals managed to beat
North Carolina Wesleyan, a poor
team, and Old Dominion College,
a good outfit, but the likes of
Hampden-Sydney, Randolph-Ma-
con, Roanoke, Centre, and Bridge-
water Colleges ran roughshod over
Canfield’s young crew.

But the future isn’t as dim as
the 1964-65 record suggests. Only
one senior, Dick Livingston, will be
lost, and Louie Paterno—the 1963-
64 leading scorer who sat out
this year under academic duress—

should be a more than ample re- |

placement for him next season.
Every other player should return
with added experience, especially
two promising freshmen, Larry Per-
rault—who had a go-point night
against Old Dominion—and Jody
Kline, a strong rebounder.

Also, Canfield has been hustling
basketball prospects in a_ pattern
proven effective by football coach
Lee McLaughlin. Canfield has visit-
ed ten states, selling Washington
and Lee and the opportunity to
participate in the Generals’ big
climb back to cage respectability.

‘*Miller’s Monster’

Looks Complicated
But It’s a Boon
To Wrestling Fans

IT’S THE ONLY ONE of its kind, and
it’s unlikely there'll ever be an-
other.

It’s ““Miller’s Monster,” a huge
conglomeration of blinking lights,
whirling clocks, loud buzzers and
a maze of wires. It functions as a
scoreboard for Coach Richard Mil-
ler’s Washington and Lee wrestling
team.

It needs some improvements, and
these will be made, but for now it
serves the purpose quite well,
thank you. One visiting coach has
already offered to buy it.

It all began when the Washing-
ton and Lee Monogram Club gave
Coach Miller some money to buy
a scoreboard. ‘The money wasn’t
enough to purchase a commercial
model and besides there was the
problem of where to place a “store-
bought” scoreboard where every-
one could see it in Washington
and Lee’s Doremus gymnasium.

“Then the athletic department
decided to improve the football
scoreboard and we had some pan-
els left over from the old one,”
said Coach Miller. “We decided to
improvise.’

The university already owned.
timing devices. So, with wiring be-
ing done by university mainten-
ance men and Miller, the thing
was put together. It lists the two
opponents by name (Miller gets
the other team’s roster at weigh-
in time, five hours before a match,
and has plaques made up with
each wrestler’s name on it), the
weight class, period, who has the
advantage and the score of the
match.

All this, in glowing red lights on
ai

 

anv"

Dick MILLER, Washington and Lee’s multitalented wrestling coach, checks out his
brainchild, a complicated but highly efficient wrestling scoreboard that he helped fash-
ion from spare parts and a lot of ingenuity.

a black background is easy for
spectators to see from any angle.
The timing devices, which register
how much “riding time” each Op-
ponent has compiled, are located
on top, in front of the official scor-
ers. Ihe public address system also
is tied into the unique scoreboard.
Two students operate the controls.
A third announces over the PA
system.

And it’s all on wheels so it can be
rolled out quickly onto the gym
floor for a match.

The team score must be kept
on the basketball scoreboard up
on the wall, but Miller plans to
incorporate this into the “monster”
later. Also planned as an added
Improvement is a “time elapsed”’
clock.

‘The “monster” made its 1965
finale while on loan to neighbor-
ing Virginia Military
host to the Southern Conference

Institute,

wrestling tournament March 5-6.

A few weeks earlier, a visiting
coach was so inpressed with the
thing he asked Miller where he
could buy one like it.

“You can have this one—for
$1,000, cash,” said Miller, who con-
lessed later: “I figured I could
build another one even better for
that.”

Coach Miller, soldering gun in

hand, is accepting orders.

32

ms THE THREE defensive

men on last year’s squad have been

LEADING

elected tri-captains of the 1965 foot-
ball Generals.

‘The trio, halfback Billy Andrews
of Salem, Va., linebacker Jeff No-
vinger of Knoxville, Tenn., and
guard Joe Miller of Nashville,
Tenn., were the team’s top tacklers
in 1964. Their finest day was
against the University of the South,
the College Athletic Conference’s
champion whose unbeaten record
was spoiled by the Generals, 11-6.

Andrews, only 5-6 and 145 “but a
real pepperpot” according to Head
Coach Lee McLaughlin, played
high school ball at Roanoke Cath-
olic.

Novinger, the heaviest of the
three at 192, is equally talented as
an offensive center as well as de-
fensive linebacker. “He plays both
and does them both well,” Says
McLaughlin.

Jor MILLER

JEFF NOVINGER

Miller, only 5-8 but 180 pounds,
played at Father Ryan High in
Nashville. McLaughlin says he
“came along rapidly last year in
learning what he was supposed to
do.” Miller also runs on the track
team.

“All three display a tremendous
amount of ability,”’
Coach Mac said of his tri-captains.
“And they are all good students

leadership

too.” All are history majors.

@ GUILFORD COLLEGE and Western
Maryland have been added to the
nine-game schedule for Washington
and Lee’s football Generals next
fall.

The two schools replace Oberlin
and Susquehanna from the 1964
schedule. ‘The Generals will play
the other four members of the Col-
lege Athletic Conference plus three
Virginia small colleges—Randolph-
Macon, Hampden - Sydney and
Bridgewater.

For the second year in a row, the
Generals will play five home games
at Wilson Field, the heaviest home
schedules in the school’s history.

Over go lettermen are exepcted
to return for 1965.

Sept. 25 Randolph-Macon Home

Oct. 2 Hampden-Sydney Away
Oct... 9, AGemme Home |
Oct. 16 Guilford Home
Homecoming
Oct. 23 W. Maryland Home
Oct. 30 Bridgewater Away
Nov. 6 Sewanee Away
Nov. 13 Southwestern Home
Nov. 20 Washington Away

(St. Louis)

 

BILLY ANDREWS

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1965’s Alumni
Fund Is Past ©
Halfway Mark

AVE YOU HEARD from your
H class agent yet? If not, you
will shortly.

His message will underscore the
exciting challenge held up_ to
Washington and Lee alumni this
year: the opportunity to  partici-
pate in the most ambitious and the
most important Alumni Fund cam-
paign in the long program of an-
nual giving at the University.

In establishing a goal of $210,-
ooo—some $45,000 more than was
received last year—the Alumni
Fund Council recognized the ever-
erowing needs of a good Universi-
ty striving hard to maintain a posi-
tion of quality and strength in
higher education. It recognized al-
so that no institution can be bet-
ter than its faculty, and the Coun-
cil noted with continuing approval
that the most urgent use of funds
realized through the Alumni Fund
involves the support of faculty
salaries.

As of April 1, some 1,808 alumni
had contributed $110,876 to the
1965 Fund. Of the total number
of alumni solicited, this participa-
tion rate is approximately sixteen
per cent.

‘The concern for American high-
er education is shared by many,
especially a growing number of
businesses and industries whose sup-
port of colleges and universities
takes various forms. One form is
the “matching gift’? program de-
scribed in the adjoining column.
But as welcome as this support is,
Washington and Lee cannot turn
to corporate giving as the source
of its major support. ‘That must
come from those who know, under-
stand, respect, and love the insti-
tuition best—its own alumni. You.

WINTER 1965

Is Your Company Listed?

@ THE LIST OF AMERICAN business enterprises to adopt the so-called ‘‘match-
ing gift” programs for support of higher education continues to grow

each year.

Latest information distributed by the American Alumni Council in-
dicates these companies now total 254, and the total amount of annual
support given to colleges and universities through the matching gift

programs runs to millions of dollars.

Details of matching gift programs will vary from one company to
another, but essentially such a program permits an alumnus to virtually
double his contribution to his Alma Mater by following the “matching”’
procedure established by his company. Won’t you check this list for your
company’s name, and then learn more about the matching provisions of

its particular program?

Abbott Laboratories

Aeroglide Corp.

Aetna Life Affiliated Companies
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.
Air Reduction Co.

Albion Malleable Iron Co.
Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp.
Aluminum Co. of America
American Brake Shoe Co.
American Express Co.

American & Foreign Power Co., Inc.

American Home Products Corp.
American Metal Climax Found.
American Potash & Chemical Corp.
American Smelting and Refining Co.
American Sugar ee Co.
Armco Foundation

Armstrong Cork Co

Athos Steel and Alumium, Inc.
Atlas Chemical Industries, Inc.
Atlas Rigging and Supply Co.
Bank of New York

Barton-Gillet Co.

Berks County Trust Co.

Bishop Trust Co., Ltd.

Bloch Brothers Tobacco Co.

Boston Manufacturers Mutual Ins. Co.

Bristol Myers Co.
Brown-Forman Distillers Corp.
Brown and Root Inc.
Burlington Industries

Cabot Corp., Mass.

Campbell Soup Co.

Canadian Gen. Electric Co., Ltd.
The Carborundum Co.
Carpenter Steel Co.

Carter Products, Inc., N. Y.
Cavalier Corp.

Cerro Corp.

Chase Mahattan Bank
Chemical Bank .N. Y. Trust Co.
Chicopee Manufacturing Co.
Chrysler Corp.

Citizens & Southern National Bank
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co.
Clevite Corp.

James B. Clow & Sons, Inc.
Coats & Clark Inc.

Columbian Carbon Co.
Combustion Engineering

Conn. General Life Ins. Co.
Conn. Light & Power Co.
Conn. Mutual Life Ins. Co.
Consolidation Coal Co.
Consumers Power Co.
Container Corp. of America
The Continental Ins. Cos,
Continental Oil Co

Cook Foundation, Conn.
Copley Newspapers

Corn Products Co.

Corning Glass Works Co.
Crouse-Hinds Co.

Deering Milliken, Inc.
Diamond Alkali Co.

Diamond Crystal Salt Co.

Dow Chemical Co.

Dow Corning Corp.

Draper Corp.

Dresser Industries, Inc.
Wilbur B. Driver Co.

Eastern Gas & Fuel Associates
Easton Car & Construction

Ebasco Services, Inc.
Electric Bond & Share Co.
Esso Education Foundation
Ex-Cell-O Corp.

Fafnir Bearing Co.

Ferro Corp.

Firemen’s Mutual Ins. Co.
First Nat. Bank of Hawaii
Ford Motor Co.

Ford Motor Co. of Canada, Ltd.
Forty-Eight Insulations, Inc.
E & J Gallo Winery
Gardner-Denver Co.

General Atronics Corp.
General Electric Co.

General Foods Corp.
General Foods Limited
General Mills, Inc.

General Public Utilities Corp.
M. A. Gesner of Illinois, Inc.
Gibbs & Hill, Inc.

Ginn & Co.

Glidden Co., Ohio

B. F. Goodrich Co.

W. T. Grant Co.

The Griswold-Eshleman Co.
Guardian Life Ins. Co.

Gulf Oil Corp.

- Gulf States Utilities Co.

Harris-Intertype Corp.
Harsco Corp.
Hawaiian Telephone Co.
Hercules Powder Co.
Hewlett—Packard Co.
Hill Acme Co., Ohio
Honeywell, Inc.
Hooker Chemical Corp.
J. M. Huber Corp.
Hughes Aircraft Co.
Insurance Co. of North America
International Bus. Machines Corp.
International Tel. & Tel. Corp.
Jefferson Mills, Inc.
Jewel Tea Co.
Johnson & Higgins
Johnson & Johnson

C. Johnson & Sons, Inc.
Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp.
Kaiser Steel Corp.
The Kendall Company
Kern County Land Co.
Walter Kidde & Co.
Walter Kidde Constructors
Kidder, Peabody & Co.
Kimberly-Clark Corp.
Kingsbury Machine Tool Corp.
Richard C. Knight Ins. Agency, Inc.
H. Kohnstamm & Co., Ince.
Lehigh Portland Cement Co.
Lever Brothers Co.
P. Lorillard Co.
Lubrizol Corp.
Lummus Co.
Lustra Plastics Corp.
Mallinckrodt Chemical Works
P, R. Mallory & Co., Ine.
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co.
Marathon Oil Co.
Marine Midland Trust Co. of N. Y.
Mass. Mutual Life Ins. Co.
Matalene Surgical Instruments Co.
Maytag Co.
McCormick & Co., Ine,

33

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

i Bn eo - - - - - ee a as ee - a ee - ,
> : / a / : ; : : : oe SS ee ee ee - _ ee OS a a
BS - oe : : - a | +s = a - s - jp T* 7 : - - : : 7 a
- - - a : - _ a
Oo
- -
7
- :
> a
. 7 a
: -
7 a :
“3 /
a / /
wy / /
7 ;
BS
” -
oe
Oe
a
: a -
- _
; :
: OO
- oe
- 7
i a
ae

 

 

- - 7 — eee
: ; ; - . —_—_—" -
a vat OY a a / / ; 7 :
Gott ee i
ee 7 -
;

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

Anniversary Reunions Scheduled
For Five Classes ‘This Year

HE PEPSI COLA advertisement—

“Come Alive’’—makes an appro-
priate theme for the 1965 Anniver-
sary Class Reunions. Even as this
magazine goes to press, reservations
are coming in for this celebration.

The traditional universary class-
es, 50th, goth, 25th, and ioth, are
being joined by the first convoca-
tion for the 5th anniversary class.
All members, whether from the
class of 1915 or the class of 1960,
will have as much in common. as
they share two days on campus and
make note of the advances and de-
velopments since their graduation.

The dates are May 7-9, a time
of maximum scenic beauty in the
Shenandoah Valley.

Into this setting will come the
classes Of 1915, 1925, 1940, 1955,
and 1960, to celebrate their respec-
tive anniversaries and to join in
the fellowship which is a_trade-
mark of Washington and Lee men
everywhere. Headquarters for class-
es 1915 and 1925 will be the Rob-
ert E. Lee Hotel whose recently
renovated facilities offer maximum
comfort and a centralized location
within walking distance of the cam-
pus. ‘The class of 1940 will hold
forth at the Lexington Motel while
the classes of 1955 and 1960 will
have their headquarters in the May-
flower Hotel, the Green Valley, and
Keydet-General Motels. Every ef-
fort will be made to group the
classes together. Confirmations of
hotel accommodations are being
mailed promptly upon receipt of
reservation requests.

WINTER 1965

By WILLIAM C. WASHBURN
Alumni Secretary

 

Dr. OLLINGER CRENSHAW, '25
On reunion program.

Lists of those who stated their
plans to return have been circu-
lated among the classes. If you are
a member of these classes and
would like to know who has made
plans to attend inquire from the
central Alumni Office

Registration begins Friday after-
noon at 2:00 o'clock at the Student
Union Building which will serve as
alumni headquarters. Golfers are
urged to sign up for the annual
tournament on Saturday afternoon
where Cy Twombly promises each
and everyone to be a winner. All
bus tours and guided tours will
leave from headquarters.

Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw will open
the formal program Friday night in
Lee Chapel at 7:45 o'clock with

some interesting observations on
Washington and Lee history, based
on his research for the official uni-
versity history. Also at this session
plans for the new alumni house
will be presented with artist sketch-
es and drawings. After the open-
ing session, President and Mrs.
Cole will receive and greet alumni
in Evans Hall.

A special invitation is made to
alumni to attend classes on Satur-
day morning, and a list of courses
in session during this period will
be available. Guided tours also
will be conducted.

At 9:45, alumni may attend a
special dedication of a memorial
plaque in Washington Hall which
honors Henry Algernon duPont,
an artillery officer in the Union
Army whose humane attitude help-
ed spare Lexington much damage
when invaded in 1864.

President Cole will speak at the
noon luncheon in Evans Hall,
bringing alumni a report on the
status and progress of their Univer-
sity. The afternoon is “free time’,
in which alumni can play golf, see
a varsity lacrosse match, or tour
Natural Bridge or Goshen Pass.

Individual class banquets Satur-
day night and a “‘jamboree’’ for all
classes at the Robert E. Lee Hotel
will close out the busy day.

 

Photo Quiz Answers

A. Robinson; B. Tucker; C. Payne; D.
Newcomb; E. Washington.

35

CHAPTER CORRESPONDENTS

Appalachian—James W. Harman, Jr., ’44,
Tazewell, Virginia

Arkansas—H. Tyndall Dickinson, ‘41, 6
Palisade Drive, Little Rock

Atlanta—D. Terry Whitman, °52, 2184 Wil-
low Avenue, N. E.

Augusta-Rockingham—Richard T. Sloan,
*42, Box 668, Harrisonburg, Virginia

Baltimore—William N. Clements, II, ’50,
701 Kingston Road

Birmingham—John V. Coe, ’25, 3421 Spring
Hill Road, Birmingham 13

Charleston, West Virginia—William T. W.
Brotherton, Jr., °47, 1020 Kanawha Val-
ley Building

Charlotte—Harry A. Berry, Jr., °51, 38382
Abingdon Road, Charlotte, N. C.

Chattanooga—Gerry U. Stephens, °50, 2720
Haywood Avenue

Chicago—William H. Hillier, ’38, 321 West
Lincoln Avenue, Wheaton, Illinois

Cleveland—William M. France, ’°58, 21075
Sydenham Road, Shaker Heights 22, O.

Cumberland Valley—I. Glenn Shively, ’36,
102 Woodland Way, Chambersburg, Pa,

Danville—Douglas K. Frith, °57, 5 Monroe
Arms Apartments, Martinsville, Virginia

Florida West Coast—Joseph H. Chumbley,
5D, 205 Fifth Street North, St. Peters-
burg 1, Florida.

Gulf Stream—J. Alan Cross, Jr., °51, 9700
Dominican Drive, Cutler Ridge, Miami
57, Florida

Houston—Robert I. Peeples, ’57, 2344 South
Boulevard

Jacksonville—William B. Barnett, °58, 4619
Apache Avenue, Jacksonville 10, Florida

Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, °49, 15 West
10th Street

Louisville—A, R. Boden, °52, 3913 Druid
Hills Road

Lynchburg—Bertram R. Schewel, ’41, 3241
Elk Street

Mid-South—Milburn K. Noell, Jr., °51, 199
Fenwick, Memphis 11, Tennessee

Mobile—G. Sage Lyons, ’°58, Lyons, Pipes
& Cook, 517 First National Bank Bldg.

New Orleans—John H. McMillan, °42, 149
Brockenbrough Court, Metairie, Louisi-
ana, 70005

New River-Greenbrier—Judge Robert J.
Thrift, Jr., °’31, Box 599, Fayetteville,
West Virginia

New York—Richard H. Turrell, ’49, 26 Ho-
bart Gap Road, Short Hills, New Jersey

Norfolk—T. W. Joynes, ’52, 7700 North
Shirland Avenue

North Texas—C. M. Patrick, Jr., °55, 5358
Montrose, Dallas, Texas

Northern Louisiana—Robert U. Goodman,
*50, 471 Leo Street, Shreveport, Louisiana

Palm Beach-Ft. ale zg .
Glickstein, ’58, Suite 304-06 Atlantic Fed-
eral Building, 1750 East Sunrise Boule-
vard, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida

Pensacola—Rodger P. Doyle, ’58, 701 N.
Palafox Street

Philadelphia—Charles B. Humpton, Jr., ’57,
226 Winsor Lane, Haverford, Pa.

Piedmont—Hugh J. Bonino, '36, 116 Keel-
ing Road, East, Greensboro, . C,

Pittsburgh—John E. Perry, 38, 1330 Ter-
race Drive

Richmond—John F. Kay, Jr., ‘51, 5502
Toddsbury Road

Roanoke—Robert E. ee *D1, 2659 Not-
tingham Road,

San Antanas Hotert H. Seal, °44, 417
Canterbury Hills, San Antonio, Texas
St. Louis—Burr W. Miller, °49 6632 Pep-

peridge Drive, St. Louis 34, Mo.

Southern Ohio—Robert W. Hilton, ‘Jr., 738,
3277 Hardisty Avenue, Cincinnati 8, Ohio

Tri-State—Joe W. Dinges,* deceased Feb-
ruary 9, 1965

a al i C. Hubert,

 

 

 

                

 

"51, P. O. Box

Upper Potomac—Thomas N. Berry, ’'38, 15
N. Alleghany St., Cumberland, Maryland
Washington, D. C, — Arthur Clarendon
Smith, Jr., °41, 1313 You Street, N.W.
Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, ’52, 100

Cambridge Drive

 

If you move, contact the nearest
chapter correspondent for

news of meetings.

CLass NOTES

1907

Following graduation Davin H. HI, a
native of Shepherdstown, West Virginia,
went to New York where he started work
on the Catskill Aqueduct. This is now one
of the largest sources for water for New
York City. Hill was busy with this project
for ten years at different locations. In 1918
he joined Merritt Chapman and _ Scott
Corporation which was then primarily
a ship salvaging firm but is now a con-
struction business for many varied fields.
Mr. Hill was engineer and superintendent
with Merritt Chapman until his retire-
ment in 1953. He now lives in Westfield,
New Jersey, where he writes that he is in
excellent health and enjoying his retire-
ment,

1918

The Bar Association of the District of
Columbia paid special tribute to Ep-
MUND D. CAMPBELL by presenting him
the “Distinguished Lawyer of the Year”
award at a dinner at the Sheraton-
Park Hotel on December 5. Born on the
campus, the son of Dean of the College,
Henry Donald Campbell, Edmund _re-
ceived his A.B. and LL.B. degrees from
Washington and Lee and his M.A. degree
in economics at Harvard. Making his
home in Arlington, Virginia, Mr. Camp-
bell has been active in civic and political
affairs. He served for seven years as a
member of the Arlington County Board,
was at one time Democratic nominee for
Congress, and is now chairman of the
Board of ‘Trustees of Mary Baldwin Col-
lege.

1927

GerorGE E. Burks has just been appointed
by Judge Marlow Cook to serve for his
fifth term as a member of the Louisville
and Jefferson County Board of Zoning
Adjustments and Appeals. During his six-
teen years of service on this board, George

Howarp D. LEAKE,
visited the chapter
LEAKE, left, with CRAIG BARLEY, WEB SHEARBURN, and CHARLES SWEET.

recently and made

has been vice-chairman and chairman for
several years.

REGINALD V. MILBANK is Chairman of the
Department of Civil Engineering at the
University of Vermont, He has recently
been awarded a sabbatical for the spring
semester in 1966.

1928

The village of Winnetka, Illinois, turned
out for the Open House of the Winnetka
Trust and Savings Bank’s new building
on October 12, 1964. CHARLES A. STRAHORN
is president of the bank which is one of
the oldest in the state, having begun in
1894. ‘The new building, whose architec-
ture has the charm of Old Williamsburg,
is built on the same site as the old build-
ing. Strahorn joined Winnetka Trust in
1940 after twelve years with Riggs Na-
tional Bank in Washington, D.C., and
as a federal bank examiner. On leave for
two years he served as a Navy lieutenant
during World War II. Strahorn is active
in civic and community affairs. He has
served as treasurer of the Family Service
of Winnetka and was chairman of the
New Trier High School nominating cau-
cus in 1957. Charlie is a past president of
the Winnetka Chamber of Commerce.
The entire village expressed its best
wishes for the continued success of Win-
netka ‘Trust.

1929

Henry P. JOHNSTON, a widely known
Birmingham business man, has been
elected to the advisory board of the First
National Bank’s Crestline branch. In his
varied career Mr. Johnston has been presi-
dent and publisher of the Huntsville
Times, vice-president of the Birmingham
News, director of radio station WSGN,
and president of the Alabama Broadcast-
ing System. He is presently chairman of
the board of Planters and Merchants Bank
of Uniontown. He is the author of sev-
eral books and has also served on numer-
ous civic, social, and business boards.

 

24, former national executive secretary of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity
awards to outstanding members. Above, Mr.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1931

‘THOMAS STOCKTON Fox, Roanoke lawyer,
was elected the 46th potentate of Kazim
Temple of the Shrine at the temple’s
annual session in January in Roanoke.
The new potentate was initiated into
Kazim ‘Temple in 1943 and has been ac-
tive in Masonic affairs since then. He
was instrumental in having the Scottish
Rite ‘Temple built, as well as the nearby
Shrine building.

1932

At the general elections in November,
‘Tucson attorney JACK G. MARKs was elect-
ed Judge of the Superior Court of Pima
County, Arizona. ‘This will be a four-year
term, beginning in January, and follows
almost three and a half years on the
bench as Superior Court Commissioner.

1933

WALLACE WERBLE, editor and publisher of
I-D-C Reports and Washington corres-
pondent for other publications in the
drug and food fields, has been elected
chairman of the Board of Directors of
Childrens Hospital in Washington, D.C.

Joun F. WATLINGTON, JR., president of the
Wachovia Bank and ‘Trust Co. in Win-
ston-Salem, has been re-appointed a mem-
ber of the Federal Advisory Council for
1905.

1937

Dr. A. E. Sprout of Staunton, Virginia, re-
cently attended a nation-wide Continen-
tal Air Command conference at Randolph
AFB, ‘Texas, for representatives of US
Air Force Reserve tactical medical units.
The conference featured aspects of aero-
space medicine as related to keeping
USAF Reserve components operationally
ready. Dr. Sproul is staff surgeon for the
Second Air Reserve Region, with head-
quarters at Andrews AFB, Maryland.

WittiAM ‘T. Warkins has been elected
vice-president of John H. Hampshire, In-
corporated, He will assume the responsi-
bility of the firm’s offices in Richmond,
Norfolk and Roanoke, Virginia, and
Charleston, West Virginia.

1938

The former editor, president and direct-
or of the New York Herald Tribune, Ros-
ERT M. Wuire, II, has been elected sec-
retary of the national journalism society,
Sigma Delta Chi. Bob is a native of Mex-
ico, Missouri, where he now edits the Mex-
ican Evening Ledger. He is a member of
the national executive council of Sigma
Delta Chi and in 1952 received its cov-
eted distinguished service award for edi-
torial writing.

R. Tare ALEXANDER, Commissioner of
Revenue for Rockbridge County and the
Town of Lexington for four years, re-
cently resigned to return to private busi-
ness. During his administration simpli-

WINTER 1965

fied procedures have been put into effect
for the handling of taxes on machinery
and tools and other personal property in-
cluding farm equipment. The new sys-
tem includes the household plan for the
assessment of personal property taxes.

1939

WALLER C. HArpby, JR., long-time Charles-
ton, West Virginia, broker, has _ been
named resident manager of a new branch
of Kay Richards & Company in Parkers-
burg. Kay Richards & Company is a Pitts-
burgh-based brokerage firm, established
sixty-three years ago. Hardy has been
associated with the brokerage business
since his college days at Washington and
Lee and his graduation from Eastman
Business School of New York City.

 

HucH Best, °41

RANDOLPH D. ROUSE continues to show a
keen and active interest in horse racing.
A few years back his horse, Curly Joe,
won the Gold Cup victory at the Rolling
Rock races. ‘These races are considered
by many as the premier social and sport-
ing event of the hunt racing circuit and
the Gold Cup is the richest race of all.
This year at the International Gold Cup
race at Rolling Rock, near Ligonier,
Pennsylvania, Randy had two horses in
the Fifth Race—‘‘Iambic” and “Blood
Shot.” Randy is a member of the Fair-
fax Hunt Club.

1940

W. R. J. DUNN, JrR., has been elected to
the board of directors of the Exchange
Security Bank in Birmingham, Alabama.
Mr. Dunn is president of the Dunn Con-
struction Company in Birmingham and
the Mississippi Materials Company in
Jackson, Mississippi. He has served as
president of the Alabama Asphalt Mix
Association, the Alabama Road Builders

Association, and the Alabama Branch of
the Associated Contractors of America.

He is also a director of the Birmingham

Area Chamber of Commerce.

Ross Hersey of Waynesboro, Virginia, has
been elected president of the Episcopal
Laymen of the Diocese of Southwest Vir-
ginia. Ross is associated with the public
relations division of the duPont Com-
pany in Waynesboro. He has been an ac-
tive member of church circles for many
years.

Joining the company in 1946, JAMEs H.
BrieRER has recently been elected a_vice-
president of Corning Glass Works. He
has held various positions in the produc-
tion department and in 1954 was named
manager of advertising and sales promo-
tion in the Consumer Products Division.
Since then he has also served as market-
ing manager and manager of the table-
ware department. In his new position he
will also remain as manager of the Con-
sumer Products Division.

1941

Hucu Besr has been appointed creative
director of the public relations depart-
ment of the Philadelphia-based agency,
Arndt, Preston, Chapin, Lamb & Keen,
Inc. He will direct all radio and ‘TV
activities and coordinate all copy and
art for print media, Hugh, who is widely
known in creative circles, was for seven
years creative manager of Holiday Maga-
zine’s. promotion department. He also
served in important creative areas at N.
M. Ayer and was copy chief at Aitken-
Kynett immediately prior to his new as-
signiment,

1942

MARRIED: AvExX Mayer Hitz, Jr., and
Miss Caroline Sauls were married on De-
cember 18, 1964, at the Episcopal Cathe-
dral of St. Philip in Atlanta, Georgia.
Alex is associated with the Atlanta ‘Trav-
el Agency.

J. AuBREY MATTHEWS, a practicing lawyer
in Marion, Virginia, for nearly 17 years,
has been named by Gov. Harrison to suc-
ceed Judge Thomas L. Hutton as judge
of the ggrd Circuit. The Judicial Circuit
covers Washington and Smyth Counties
and the City of Bristol, Virginia., Aubrey
is past president of the Marion Lions Club
and was commonwealth’s attorney from
1955-1959. He is presently serving as
chairman of the board of the First Metho-
dist Church.

1943

FRANCIS R. RUSSELL, representing ‘The
Babcock & Wilcox Company, was among
a group of Washington and Lee people
who met in Charleston, South Carolina,
on the occasion of the docking of the
Nuclear Ship Savannah. ‘The _ reactor
aboard the nuclear ship was built by
Babcock & Wilcox. In the picture are
FrANcis R. RussELi, 43; Mrs. Russell, the
former Miss Hilah Hinty, a member of

37

Washington and Lee alumni and families

56; THOMAS W, ALEXANDER,

the W&L library staff for thirteen years;
M. BisHor ALEXANDER, “21, president of
Advertising Service Agency of Charles-
ton; Mrs. James Pullen, wife of Jim PUL-
LEN, 56; and ‘THOMAS ALEXANDER, °55, Who
is vice-president of his father’s agency.
The two Pullen children are in the front
row of the picture.

Atuirt H. LANE of Bartow, Florida, re-
signed as city attorney in December and
Was appointed a circuit court judge in
the 10th judicial circuit, effective Jan-
uary ist. This appointment is for two
years. He is a partner in the law firm of
Boswell, Lane & Boswell.

1944

Kilective January 1, 1965, J. P. STUART
SmMitH, JR., became head of the appraisal
department and assistant loan officer for
Piedmont Federal Savings and Loan As-
sociation. Smith took advanced courses
in appraisal at American University and
the University of Virginia. He was field
appraiser for the Virginia Department of
Taxation for three years and between
1956 and 1959 was real estate appraiser to
the commissioner of revenue for Prince
William County. In 1959 he joined
Wright realty in Manassas where he re-
sides with his family. Smith is an ap-
proved appraiser for the Veterans Admin-
istration, the Federal Housing Administra-

38

 

who met in Charleston, S. C., recently at the nuclear-powered ship, Savannah, were,
I-r, FRANCIS R. RUSSELL, "43, Mrs. Russett; M. BisHor ALEXANDER, “21, Mrs. JAMES PULLEN, whose husband is a member of the class oj

,

tion and the Virginia Deparment of High-
ways.

Epwarp C. WaAbDINGTON, JR., is district
manager for the IF. A. Bartlett Tree Ex-
pert Company in West Grove, Pennsylvan-
ia. The Bartlett firm deals with tree sur-
gery, landscaping, utility work and gen-
eral tree care. Ed’s friends will be sad-
dened to know that his wife, the former
Sue Austen, died on January 16, 1965.

The president of Steves Sash and Door
Company in San Antonio, MARSHALL ‘TI.
Steves, who has spearheaded the under-
writing campaign, has just been elected
president of HemisFair in San Antonio.
He replaces William R. Sinkin who re-
cently resigned after having spent the
last three years in developing the fair.
In accepting, Steves described this honor
as “the greatest civic challenge of my en-
tire life.’ He commented that the fair
had now become a “fact of life” but that
San Antonians were now “faced with the
problem of nurturing HemisFair from in-
fancy to adulthood.” Steves, active in
many civic affairs, is a member of the
board of trustees of Southwest Research
Institute and ‘Texas Military Institute.
He is also a member of the board of di-
rectors of the First Federal Savings and
Loan Association, the ‘Texas Import Com-
pany, Freeborn-Hughes Millwork Com-
pany and the Hill Country Arts Founda-

55; and the PULLEN children.

tion. Marshall and his wife, the former
Patricia Galt, have three sons.

1945

Having served with the Rome, Italy, Bur-
eau of Time and Life magazines since
1963, ROBERT EDWARD JACKSON has_ re-
turned to Time’s headquarters in New
York City. He and his family are now liv-
ing in Pelham, New York.

J. Maurice MILLER, JR., who received his

law degree in 1949, has made an outstand-
ing record with the Life Insurance Com-
pany of Virginia. It was announced in
December that he had been promoted to
senior vice-president and general coun-
sel. Miller joined the company’s law de-
partment as counsel in 1953 and five years
later was promoted to assistant general
counsel. Advanced to associate general
counsel in 1960, he was named to the
post of general counsel in 1962 and the
following year was elected to the board
of directors. Miller is a member of the
executive committee of the Association of
Life Insurance Counsel and_ state vice-
president for Virginia and serves on the
legislative committee of the Health In-
surance Association of America. He is a
member of the American, Virginia, and
Richmond Bar Associations, and is a di-
rector of the Richmond Psychiatric Out-
patient Clinic and the Virginia ‘Trust

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

J. MAurIcE MILLER, JR., 45

Company. He presently serves on the Al-
umni Fund Council.

1946

Roperr C. HARTER has had a sixteen-year
career with Time, Inc. He began in 1949
as a retail representative for the organi-
zation in Philadelphia and was then as-
signed to sales positions in Chicago, New
York, Detroit, and Cleveland. Since 1956
he has been a manager of sales for Life
International, and as of January of this
year he was made responsible for West
Coast advertising sales for Life Inter-
national.

Davip C. Gipson, JR., has been appointed
manager of advertising sales for New York
for ‘Time International. He has held this
position in the Chicago office since 1960,
and prior to that time was in ‘Time’s Los
Angeles office. During the 1940’s he was
associated with R. H. Macy & Company,
Conde Nast, and with a New York publi-
cation, Variety Store Merchandiser.

OLIVER Woop MCCLINTOCK, JR., is now the
manager of the J. C. Penney store in Or-
lando, Florida. Woody was_ transferred
from managing a Dallas, ‘Texas, Penney
store last June. ‘The McClintocks have
four children—Mary, Hope, Beth, and
Woody, III.

DONALD STUART HILLMAN is’ now. vice-
president for Creative Services for Coastal
Film Service, Inc., in New York City. This
firm is one of the largest optical, special
effects, and animation film production
firms in the country servicing industry,
government, advertising agencies and com-
mercial producers for TV commercials,
training films, promotion and sales films,
documentaries and industrials.

1947

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP C. BRAUN-

WINTER 1965

SCHWEIG, a daughter, Ann Lisa, on Decem-
ber 31, 1964. Phil, a well-known buyer,
has joined the sales department of Cham-
berlin Rubber Company. For the past
eight years he has been a_ buyer with
Stromberg-Carlson Division of General
Dynamics. He is active in the Industrial
Buyers Association.

1949

With the opening of the New Year, Vir-
GIL S. Gorr, JR., became partner in the
Norfolk law firm of Seawell, McCoy, Win-
ston & Dalton.

WittiAM H. WaAbe is the senior partner
in the law firm of Jackson, Wade & Barker
in Kansas City, Missouri. ‘The firm  spe-
cializes in trial work. He was recently
named city attorney for Lake Waukomis,
Missouri, where he lives with his wife and
a son and daughter.

A trust officer in the North Carolina Na-
tional Bank in Raleigh, B. C. ALLEN, Jr.,
has just been promoted to vice-presi-
dent and trust officer. Following his LL.B.
degree from Washington and Lee, B. C.
eraduated from the Stonier Graduate
School of Banking at Rutgers University.
He is active in the state and county bar
associations and is a member of the Ki-
wanis Club. He and his wife, the form-
er Jean M. Barksdale, have two children.

1950

Beginning a career in life insurance in
1952, OLIveR C. DAwkiNs, III, joined Mas-
sachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany in 1959 as a Staff supervisor of the
Louisville agency. Effective January 4,
1965, Dawkins was appointed general
agent for the Louisville agency, He has
been a five-time winner of the National
Quality Award.

4091

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GeEorGE M. PER-
SINGER, a fifth son, John ‘Tavenner, on
January 10, 1965, in Lexington, Virginia.

Effective February 1, 1965, WILLIAM H.
KyLr, JR., will assume his new duties
with the International Division of Pick-
lands Mather and Company in ‘Tokyo,
Japan, the Japanese Coordinator between
the Steel Industry of Japan and some
iron ore property which his company
manages in ‘Tasmania, Australia. Bill and
his family expect to be in Japan approxi-
mately five years.

1932

On Febuary 15th FRANK H. CALLAHAM,
]R., accepted a position on the news staff
of the Norfolk (Va.) Star-Ledger. Frank
has been in the advertising promotion
and sales department of the General Elec-
tric Company in Lynchburg for a number

 

HucGu C. NEwTOoON, 52

of years. His new position, however, is a
return to his original field, for he was at
one time on the staff of the Lynchburg
News. Frank and his wife and seventeen-
month old daughter are living in Nor-
folk.

The former manager for public relations
services for Reynolds Metals Company,
HuGu C, Nrewron has been named Di-
rector of Information for the National
Right to Work Committee. Before join-
ing Reynolds in 1961, Hugh was assistant
director for public relations for Rockwell
Manufacturing Company, He was also a
staff reporter for the Danville Bee in Dan-
ville, Virginia, and was editor of the news
bureau for Carnegie Institute of ‘Tech-
nology in Pittsburgh. In his new position
Hugh will be responsible for the com-
pany’s expanding information programs
and for continuing a nation-wide Right
to Work education program. He and _ his
wife have one daughter and the family
lives in Alexandria, Virginia.

1953

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ALBERT WALTER
Daub, a son, David Hayes, on September
{, 1964. David joins an older brother,
Steven, in the family home in Millington,
New Jersey, where Al is associated with
IBM.

CHARLES RAY StoRM has received a_pro-
motion on the claims staff of the East-
ern Office of the State Farm Mutual Auto-
mobile Insurance Company. He is now
claim specialist in Newport News, Vir-
einia.

1954

BORN: THe Rev. and Mrs, DANIEL D.
DICKENSON, JR., a daughter, Elizabeth
Guerrant, on January 22, 1965. The Dick-
ensons are living in Berryville, Virginia.

39

Effective January 1, 1965, RopBerT P.
SMITH, JR., became a partner in the law
firm of Bedell, Bedell, Dittmar & Smith
of Jacksonville, Florida.

1955

EUGENE B. SIEMINSKI, JR., is director of
market research and analysis with Carl
M. Freeman Assoc., Inc., in Washington,
D.C. In 1964 he received an M.B.A. de-
gree from American University and _ is
currently working on his Ph.D.

L. Puittie JAcosy, III, has been with
the Milford Rivet & Machine Company
of Milford, Connecticut, for seven years
and has been Product Superintendent
since 1963. He has now been named
Manager of the New England Product
Division of the company. Previously
Jacoby had held positions with the com-
pany’s plant in Aurora, Illinois.

‘This year WILLIAM H. BaArtscH is in ‘Veh-

ton Graduate School in 1959 and joined
the investment research department of the
Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. ‘Two years
later he went with the Hillman organiza-
tion. Active in professional affairs, Dick
is a member of the Pittsburgh Financial
Analysis Society,

Dr. EUGENE EARL MONTGOMERY will begin
the private practice of psychiatry and
neurology in Colorado Springs, Colo-
rado, in June, 1965. He and his wife have
two sons, Randall and Steven.

OLIVER Woop MCCLINTOCK, JR., has been
transferred from Dallas, ‘Texas, to Or-
lando, Florida, where he is the manager
of the J. C. Penney Store. He and his
wife, the former Sarah Wall, and their
four children live in Maitland, Florida.

1957

WILLIAM B. ‘Tiprerrs, JRr., has moved to

presently a vice-president of the bank,
and it was recently announced that he
had been made a director.

The appointment of JOHN S. MOREMAN
as attorney for Brown-Forman Distillers
Corporation, Louisville, Kentucky, was an-
nounced in January. Prior to joining
Brown-Forman John was with a law firm
in Owensboro, Kentucky, where he was
also attorney for the Owensboro Daviess
County Planning and Zoning Commission.
He is a member of the Louisville, Owens-
boro and Kentucky Bar Association.

GERALD W. SMILEY of Waynesboro, Vir-
ginia, has been promoted from senior
field claim representative to claim  spe-
cialist by the Eastern Office of the State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Com-

pany.
1958

For outstanding and meritorious service

 

L. Puiwiip JAcosy, III, "55

ran, Iran, collecting information for use
in writing his dissertation for a Ph.D. de-
gree. Bill’s subject is manpower utiliza-
tion in Iran, which is pretty much a vir-
gin subject. Iran is the seventh country
in which Bill has lived in the last four
years—Kuwait, France, Iceland, USA,
Jamaica, and England. He will return to
England in September, 1965, and begin
writing his dissertation at the School of
Oriental and African Studies in London.

1956

The investment holding company of J. H.
Hillman & Sons Company of Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, has announced the = ap-
pointment of RICHARD M. JOHNSTON as
Assistant to the President. Following his
B.S. degree from Washington and Lee,
Dick received his M.A. degree from Whar-

40

Oris R. HEss, *61, right

Orlando, Florida, where he is_ presently
working for the Social Security Adminis-
tration. He was married in June, 1964, to
the former Phyllis Ann Robbins of St.
Petersburg, Florida.

The first novel of JeB J. ROSEBROOK is to
be published in the near future by E.
P. Dutton Company. Jeb and his wife and
son are living in North Hollywood, Cali-
fornia, where he is merchandising super-
visor for the Los Angeles office of Foote,
Cone & Belding, an advertising agency.
He has been successful as a_ free-lance
writer. He is also serving a term on the
Board of ‘Trustees of the Orme School, a
college prep school in Mayer, Arizona.

Since graduation from Law School in 1960,
I. N. (Ike) SmirH, JR., has been associated
with the Kanawha Banking & ‘Trust Com-
pany of Charleston, West Virginia. Ike is

JOHN S. MOREMAN, ‘57

during his Army tour in France between
February, 1961, and July, 1964, “‘THOMAs
P. O'BRIEN, JR., was awarded the Army
Commendation Medal. At a recent cere-
mony Colonel James Riley, eastern sector
commander, pinned the medal on Capt.
O’Brien. ‘Tom is a member of the West
Virginia Bar Association and is now an
assistant to the Attorney General in Char-
leston, West Virginia.

WILLIAM C. FINCH, JR., is attending Van-
derbilt University this spring semester
for further studies in German language
and literature,

Howarpd C. PAcCKETT has been promoted
to vice-president of Brand and Edmonds
Advertising in Salem, Virginia. Howard
was a Roanoke Times reporter for five
years before joining the agency in 1963
as an account executive.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1959

MARRIED: H. DONALD Morine and Ann
Iletchall were married in Cleveland, Ohio,
on December 5, 1964. After receiving a
master’s degree in business administration
from Northwestern University, Don has
joined the U.S. Steel Corporation as a
sales representative in Indianapolis, In-
diana.

Associated with the Department of Air
Force as a teacher of English in the sev-
enth and eighth grades, RicHARD A. Pow-
ELL is at the Dependent School at Hahn
Air Base (near Mosel and Rhine), -Ger-
many. He wrote of many interesting ex-
periences and of his hopes to do some
skiing during the Christmas season.

1960

MARRIED: David SHARON ERNEST and
Judith Ann Harig were married on No-
vember 21, 1964, in Cleveland, Ohio. Af-
ter a honeymoon trip to the West Indies
the couple returned to Cleveland to make
their home. Dave is assistant editor of
Handling and Shipping magazine.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM GEORGE
LOEFFLER, JR., a son, William Douglas, on
October 5, 1964. Bill is the Assistant In-
formational Officer at Camp LeJeune,
North Carolina.

1961

Oris R. Hess is a first lieutenant in the
Air Force and has graduated from the
US Air Force course for legal officers at
Lackland AFB, ‘Texas. He is being re-
assigned to Beale AFB, California, where
he will join the staff of the Judge Advo-
cate. Otis was formerly associated with
a law firm in Cincinnati.

1962

After a semester’s work at the Graduate
School of Journalism at the University of
Minnesota, R. Roy Goopwin, II, has de-
cided to transfer to the University of
Georgia where he will continue work in
the Business Administration School.

MereDITH WILLIAM Myers is doing his
military service at the moment in Fort
Lewis, Washington. He and his wife,
the former Winks Farwell, expect to re-
turn to Mobile, Alabama, in September,

1965.
1963

MARRIED: FRANK OWEN EVANS, JR., and
Miss Beverly Anne Lemon were married
on December 29, 1964, in the Second
Presbyterian Church in Roanoke, Vir-
ginia. Frank, formerly of Milledgeville,
Georgia, was served by his father, FRANK
OweEN Evans, ’g0, as best man. After a
wedding trip to Williamsburg, the couple
are making their home in New York City
where Frank, Jr., is in his second year at
Cornell Medical School.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Ropert MARK Au-

WINTER 1965

 

BURN, a son, Mark Allen, on October 16,
1964, in Durham, North Carolina. Bob is
a student at the Duke School of Medicine.

WesLEY H. SHEPHERD, recently received a
promotion at the U.S. Army Engineer
Geodesy. Intelligence and Mapping Re-
search and Development Agency (GIM-
RADA), Fort Belvoir. Col. Lloyd L. Rall,
Director, presented him with official pa-
pers marking his promotion to a_ higher
grade as a Civil engineer in the Graphics
Division. Shepherd became associated with
GIMRADA in May, 1964. He resides with
his wife, the former Miss Donna Dixon
of Lexington, Virginia, and their children

in Woodbridge, Virginia.
1964

WILLIAM DAvip ANGEL has been selected
for a Rotary International fellowship to
continue his graduate studies. The fel-

 

 

 

 

 

lowship will be for the 1965-66 academic
year. Bill is at present taking graduate
work at the University of Stockholm in
Sweden.

After leaving Washington and Lee _ in
1963, EDWARD Hottes (BUD) HOLLMAN en-
tered Washington University’s Business
School. He was elected to Beta Gamma
Sigma and was graduated with honors
from Washington University, receiving a
fellowship for graduate studies. Bud _ is
now working on his master of science in
accounting at Washington University. He
is married to the former Sandra Haines
and the young couple have a ten month
old son, Jay.

Virginia Theological Seminary’s 185-mem-
ber student body for 1964-65 includes six
eraduates of Washington and Lee, two
of whom hold top offices on the campus.
Shown in the W&L group, left to right,

 

 

Washington and Lee alumni studying at Virginia Theological Seminary in Alexandria
include, standing l-r, ‘Tim DOoLs, ’64; Britt Lowry, 63; Peter Ler, ‘60, and Pum ROULETTE,
63, and seated, l-r, Jim Horton, 64, and Ep CAMPBELL, ‘50.

41

are Timoruy W. Dots, 64, JAMES R. Hor-
TON, °64 (seated), WILLIAM B. Lowry, °63,
Perer J. Lez, ‘60, EpbMUND D. CAMPBELL,
Jr., ‘50 (seated), and Puitip B. ROULETTE,
‘63. Ed Campbell, who is a member of the
senior class at VIS, is president of the
student body, and Peter Lee is president
of the junior (first year) class. Bill Lowry
is in his second year at the seminary in
Alexandria, and the other men are first-
year students.

Joun C. Norman, JR., is living in Louis-
ville, Kentucky, where he is a securities
analyst and a_ registered representative
with Almstedt Brothers, members of the
New York and the American Stock Ex-
change.

 

1896

Dr. Locutin Minor WINN died in Birm-
ingham, Alabama, on January 5, 1965. Dr.
Winn was active in medical practice for
fifty-seven years before his retirement in
1949. A great portion of this service was
as medical director for the U.S. Pipe and
Foundry Company in Birmingham. Dur-
ing his undergraduate days at Washing-
ton and Lee he was a member of the foot-
ball team.

1898

Ropert WAYLAND MAyo, a lawyer in Dal-
las, Texas, died on October 2, 1964.

1903

The Rev. WILLIAM GIBSON PENDLETON, an
Episcopal minister for 49 years, died on
December 12, 1964, in Winchester, Va.
Mr. Pendleton retired 12 years ago after
serving in parishes in Warrenton, Lynch-
burg, Tappahannock, and Washington,
Virginia, and in Covington, Kentucky. He
was headmaster of Virginia Episcopal
School from 1920 to 1928 and was for
many years an active worker in the Boy
Scouts.

1909

Ropert Hoover Spaur died on December
{, 1964, in Smithsburg, Maryland. He was
a director of instruction for various tech-
nical institutes and for management-per-
sonnel. Mr. Spahr had lectured in his field
throughout the United States and several
times was advisor to the War Department,
the Coast Guard, and the Ordnance De-
partment in recruiting and directing
training of engineers. In the field of en-
gineering training Mr. Spahr had taught
at Penn State College, Kansas State, Went-
worth Institute, and the General Motors

42

Institute.He was a member of the Society
of Advanced Engineering, the Society of
Mechanical Engineers, the Kentucky
Academy of Science. ‘The American So-
ciety for Engineering Education awarded
Mr. Spahr the James H. McGraw Award
for Service in Technical Education.

Davin Ross DUNHAM, a legal partner in
the firm of Dunham and Bennett of St.
Augustine, Florida, died on November
24, 1964. Two years ago Mr. Dunham
was cited at the Florida Bar Convention
for his fifty years of service in the legal
profession. During his career he was
president of the board of trustees of Flag-
ler Hospital for over twenty-five years,
president of the St. Augustine Historical]
Society for twenty-five years, a trustee of
the Lightner Museum, and a director of
the St. Augustine National Bank.

Co.. RALPH EDMUND POWELL, a_ retired
officer of the U.S. Army, died in Medford,
Oregon, in December, 1964.

1910

Jupse CHartrs EpwArp Burks of Lynch-
burg, Virginia, who had presided over the
6th Judicial District Circuit for twenty-
five years, died on January 30, 1965. Judge
Burks, also a former State Senator, was to
retire from the bench on March 1st. Dur-
ing his college days Judge Burks was
president of his class and edited both the
college newspaper and the annual. After
he began the practice of law in Lynch-
burg in 1914, he became actvie in politics,
managing the gubernatorial campaign of
E. Lee Trinkle in 1921. Of seventy-seven
cases appealed to the State Supreme Court
from his decisions, only ten saw Judge
Burks’ decision reversed.

JouNn FrepericK Rem Kuck, a_ retired
bridge designer for the Seaboard Air Line
Railroad, died at his home in Norfolk,
Virginia, on November 27, 1964. After
his degree from Washington and Lee, Mr.
Kuck received a degree in civil engineer-
ing from Cornell University in 1912.

1915

FREDERICK RocHE Hocker, an attorney in
Ocala, Florida, died on November 21,
1964. He had been a member of the Flor-
ida Legislature and a judge of the Fifth
Judicial Circuit.

1914

CHArRLEs F. McINtTyre, a long-time resi-
dent of the Red Oak, North Carolina,

community, died on January 8, 1965. In.

igi5 Mr. McIntyre became principal of
the high school in West End, North
Carolina, and later served as principal at
Wadesboro, He started his extensive farm-
ing operations in the Red Oak commun-
ity in 1922 and was active in that field
until his retirement in 1955. He had been
a member of the School Board at Red
Oak and was very active in church, school,
and community life.

1917

RAYMOND L. CuNDIFF, a sales engineer
and a long-time resident of Owensboro,
Kentucky, died on October 22, 1964. Mr.
Cundiff had served as agent for the class
of 1917 for many years.

1919

LrONARD ‘LT. Brown, former wholesale pa-
per distributor in Easton, Connecticut,
died November 13, 1964. “Brownie” had
served for many years as class agent and
was a most loyal and active member of the
Alumni Association. His friends and class-
mates would have remembered him,
as being a member of the Banjo Club
while at college. He is survived by his
widow who now lives in Bridgeport, Con-
necticut.

1924

J. Luctan ALtGoop died in Birmingham,

Alabama, on January 8, 1965. Mr. All-
good was owner and operator of the All-
good Realty Company in Birmingham,

1926

EpWARD FELSENTHAL died on September
18, 1964, in Memphis, ‘Tennessee. Mr.
Felsenthal was Associate General Agent
for the New England Mutual Life In-
surance Company in Memphis, and he
was a life member of the Million Dollar
Round ‘Table. He was extremely active
in civic life and had served as President
of ‘Temple Israel, on the board of the
Underwriters Association and in_ the
Family Service Association.

1929

JAmes. GREEN WATsoN died on October 2,
1964, in his home town of Greensboro,
North Carolina. Mr. Watson was a mem-
ber of the American Institute of Archi-
tects and practiced architecture in Greens-
boro.

1931]

Purtiep BARKUS died in Sarasota, Florida,
on August g, 1964.

1935

CARLTON ELGIN STONE, a partner in a
children’s wear firm in Dallas, Texas, died
July 27, 1964.

1943

LaipD WaApdswortH SHULL, a former at-
torney in Atlanta, Georgia, died Novem-
ber 17, 1964.

1948

Davip EpwaArp Repass died after a long
illness in Naples, Florida, on December
13, 1964. He was a former commonwealth’s
attorney in Bland County, Virginia, but
he had lived in Florida for the past sev-
eral years.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

CECH. WP AYEOR; "4a tert,

presents JAMES R. CASKIE,

‘06, trustee and former Rector

of the Board of Trustees,

with the coveted Lynchburg
Cilation.

 

Lynchburg’s Alumni Pay Tribute
To Trustee Fames R. Caskte, °06

@ THE LYNCHBURG Chapter of the
Washington and Lee Alumni Asso-
ciation celebrated with its  tradi-
tional Christmas dance at the Elks
Club in Lynchburg, Friday, Decem-
ber 11.

The event for alumni and their
guests has become one of the high-
lights of the holiday season in
Lynchburg.

Arrangements were headed up by
the chapter's three
Martin,
tram R. Schewel, vice president,

othicers — S.

‘Thomas president; Ber-

WINTER 1965

and S. James Thompson, Jr., sec-
retary-treasurer.
® FOR ITS ANNUAL Founders Day
celebration, the Alumni _ enter-
tained with a reception and dinner
at the Boonsboro Country Club on
‘Tuesday, February 23. S. Tom Mar-
tin, ‘38, outgoing president, pre-
sided over the meeting and called
for a report from the treasurer.
Cecil W. ‘Taylor, 41, chairman of
the awards committee, presented
James R. Caskie, ‘06, with the
coveted 1965 Lynchburg Citation
Award. Mr. Caskie, member of the

University Board of ‘Trustees and
former rector, was acknowledged
for tireless efforts and dedication to
Washington and Lee and to the
Lynchburg Chapter. ‘The principal
address was made by Dr. Edward
C. Atwood, Jr., Dean of Students,
whose subject was “Washington
and Lee Students ‘Voday.” He made
comparisons with yesterday's stu-
dent generations and some projec-
tions for the future. His remarks
were eagerly received by all alum-
ni.

Bill Washburn, Executive Sec-

43

 

 

Upper photo, l-r, Lynchburg Chapter treasurer WILLIAM V. GILES, ’61; incoming president

BERTRAM R. SCHEWEL, “41, and outgoing president S. ‘THOMAS MARTIN, ’38.
SCHEWEL and MARTIN, standing, pose with visiting coaches Buck Leswir, *49, left, and

Lee McLaAucuiin, both of Washington and Lee, and Vincent BRADFORD, head coach at
C. E. Glass High School in Lynchburg.

retary, made a few brief remarks as
to the Spring program for the
Alumni Association. The entertain-
ment was supplied by the Sazeracs.

In the business session the follow-
ing new officers were named: Presi-
Bertram R. Schewel, ‘41,
Vice-President, S. James “Thomp-
son, Jr., 57; and Secretary- lreasur-
er, William C. (Billy) Giles, Jr., 61.

dent,

WASHINGTON

& HOLDING ITs annual holiday meet-
ing, the alumni of the Washing-
ton, D.C., chapter, together with
the present students home on va-
cation, joined for luncheon at the
December

Army-Navy Club on

29th.

44

Coach Lee McLaughlin and
Dana Swan were on hand with
football film of the Homecoming
Sewanee game. Coach McLaughlin
was the speaker and
Coach Swan made a few remarks
about the freshman football sea-
son.

Outgoing president Julian Gil-
lespie, °52, presided at the lunch-

principal

eon, and in the short business ses-
sion which followed the following
Vernon W.
Holleman, Jr., ‘58, president; Don-

officers were elected:

ald W. Sigmund, ’59, vice-presi-

dent; and Arthur C. Smith, Jr., “41,
secretary-treasurer.

TULSA

a THE ALUMNI of the ‘Tulsa, Okla-

Bottom,

homa, area joined for a delightful
meeting at the Crest Club of the
Hotel Mayo on Wednesday eve-
ning, December gth. ‘The arrange-
ments for the dinner meeting for
the alumni, their wives, and guests
were made by Eric Hubert, ‘51,
president of the chapter.

A recent copy of the Ring-tum
Phi was made a “‘favor“ at each din-
ner place, and the alumni were
asked to read and comment on
some article from the student news-
paper. A lively discussion followed.

Recent colored slides of Wash-
ington and Lee, particularly those
of the Republican Mock Conven-
tion and the newly remodeled Lee
Chapel, were shown after dinner.
Plans were announced to have an-
other meeting in the spring at
which time it is hoped that a mem-
ber of the university administra-
tion will be present.

NEW YORK

m@ PRESIDENT FRED C. COLE was the
honored guest and speaker for the
New York chapter's annual dinner-
dance on February 12th. ‘The alum-
ni, their wives and guests gathered
at the Columbia University Club
for a reception at 6:00 p.m., fol-
lowed by dinner and dancing.

In his remarks, President Cole
gave a brief report on the Univer-
sity and told of the consideration
being given to the companion col-
lege concept. He especially urged
the alumni to give this plan their
consideration and to make their
thoughts known.

In the brief business session dur-
ing dinner, the following new of-
ficers were named: president, Rich-
ard H. Turrell, 49; and vice-presi-
dents for Manhattan, Robert Ing-
ham, 55,3 for Upstate, W. L. Webs-
ter, 12; for New Jersey, Donald W.
Bourne, °51; for Connecticut, W.
Glenn Chaffer, °49; for Long Is-
land, Gossett McRea, ’27; for West-
chester County, H. Melville Hicks,

Jr., “52.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

New Yorkers who heard PResIDENT COLE recently included, above, I-r,
Mr. and Mrs RussetL G. BROWNING, 42;

 

ROANOKE

a THE EXQUISITE Lakeview Club,
adjacent to the Lakeview Motor
Lodge, was the setting for an im-
portant meeting of the alumni of
the Roanoke area on ‘Tuesday eve-
ning, December 8th. A pleasant
cocktail hour preceded the lobster
and steak dinner, which had been
arranged by an able committee
headed by J. Thomas Engleby, III,

51.

Chapter president, A. Linwood
Holton, ’44, presided at the dinner
meeting and handled the intro-
duction of the other officers of the
chapter and guests who were at the
head table. He made an appeal to
the alumni for a more active pro-
eram in the Roanoke chapter area,
particularly in the line of recruit-
ment of the promising student for
Washington and Lee.

WINTER 1965

Mr. and Mrs. DONALD S.

HOSTETTER, °32; and chapter president and Mrs. RicHARD H. TURRELL,

‘49. Right above, PRESIDENT COLE with JAMES C. AMBLER, 718. Below, I-r,

Mr. and Mrs E. STEWART EPLEY, 49, and Mr. and Mrs. PAu E. SANDERS,
‘43. Below right, Mr. and Mrs. EpGAr H. MACKINLAY, ’58.

The principal speaker was Dr.
Severn Duvall, head of the English
Department at Washington and
Lee. He was introduced by Alumni
Secretary, Bill Washburn. Dr. Du-
vall suggested to the alumni the
challenges which presented them-
selves and encouraged the alumni
to consider the possibility of Wash-
ington and Lee as a center for con-
tinued adult education. His talk
was enthusiastically received by the
large group of alumni and _ their
wives.

In the short business session the
tollowing members were named as
officers for the next year: President,
Robert E. Glenn, ’51; vice-presi-
dent, William J. Lemon, ’57; Secre-
tary-treasurer, William R. Holland,
’50. Directors elected were Benno
M. Foreman, ’52, Robert S. Gold-
smith, 53, Richard ‘IT. Edwards,

Say

Thomas Engleby, III, ‘51,

 

‘Thomas W. Goodwin, ’62, and A.

Linwood Holton, °44 (ex officio).

Mr. Holton concluded the meet-
ing with an expression of thanks
to all the members for a fine turn-
out and gave a short explanation
of the chapter’s future activities
program.

Lititit ROGK

= THE ALUMNI CHAPTER of Arkansas
gathered for a stag dinner on Feb-
ruary 5th in Little Rock. ‘The re-
ception and dinner was held at the
Country Club.

H. ‘Vyndall Dickinson, °39, pres-
ident of the chapter and a trustee
of the Alumni Association, presid-
ed at the meeting. Bull Washburn,
Executive Secretary, made a briet
report and presented color slides of
the campus.

More Chapter News
Continued on Page 48

 

 

   
   

Above, al Norfoihk, history professor Dr. CHARLES “TURNER, second from
right chats with alumni, l-r, chapter president ‘VT. “Cox” JOYNEs, ‘52;
: Jorn B. Cooper, 52; and “VTOWNSEND Oast, °51. Al lefi DR. “TURNER Lalks
- > with JUDGE JOHN W. EGGLESTON, ‘06.

 

‘ess: oo ee

At Richmond’s dinner meeting, l-r, Mr. and Mrs. “THOMAS P. Other Richmonders include, l-r, MARVIN C. BOWLINS, ‘51, MRs.
FoLrey, Sr., 26 and Mr. and Mrs. HARRY L. MCCARTHY, ’82. Roperr J. SMirH (46), CARTER L. REFO, °42; and alumni secretary

WILLIAM WASHBURN, ‘40.

Below, DirecroR OF ApMIssiONs JAMES D. FARRAR, *49, lefl, wilh San Antonio
alumni, l-r, NORMAN FIiscHer, JR., “46; PHomMAs C. Frost, JR., '50; Houston
H. Harte, 50; and chapter president Roperr H. SEAL, “44. Other San Anton-
ions al right are, upper photo, l-r, ALLAN G. PATERSON, JR., “64; Lr. COL.
ROBERT EVERETTE LEE, '26, PORTER DUANE Berry, °37; and EpcAr A. BAsse, JR.,
‘39; center photo, KE. G. DuFouR, °25; WILLIAM MaArrHews, '63; RusseELL WINE,
"12, and RALPH Lenr, “41; bottom photo, C. GANAHL WALKER, JR., (40; with
DEAN FARRAR.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Roanoke alumni — recently
heard an address by Dr.
SEVERN P. C. DUVALL, head
of the University’s Depart-
ment of English. Shown at
right with Dr. DUVALL, seated
center, are <A.  LINwoop
HOLTON, JR., ‘44, retiring
president, and Roperr E.
GLENN, 51, the chapter’s new
president. Standing, l-r, are
BENNO M. FORMAN, 52; WIL-
LIAM A. GIBBONS, JR., ’21;
WILLIAM R. HOLLAND, ’50,
chapter secretary; WILLIAM
J. LEMON, °57, vice-president;
and |, THOMAS ENGLEBy, III,

Bl.

 

Top photo below, FRANK P. FiscHer, ’25, left,
chats with JUDGE JOHN MINorR Wispom, °25, al
New Orleans. Center photo, BEAUREGARD ReED-
MOND, 755, left, wilh Mr. and Mrs. Gus Frir-
CHIE, JR., 50. Bottom photo, l-r, ARTHUR H.
ALEXANDER, °38, WILFRED M. KULLMAN, '58, and
HARLEY B. Howcort, Jr., ‘60, were also at the
New Orleans affair.

  

Little Rock’s meeting was at-
tended by, above, l-r. JAMES
H. Rick, JR., ‘37; MELVILLE
McCasKILL, °40, and H. ‘Tyn-
DALL DICKINSON, °39, @ mem-
ber of the Alumni Board of
Trustees. At left are Gus Or-
TEN HEIMER, ‘17, left, and
BYRON Morse, mayor of Lit-
ile Rock, and father of a
current Washington and Leé
sophmore, “Tuck” Morse.

 

Alumni at Shreveport’s meeting included Roperr M. JETER, JR., “41, seated below
left, STAUNTON B. SAMPLE, '38, and Mrs. JETER, and at right, Mr. and Mrs. C. LANE

SARTOR, ‘42.

 

WINTER 1905 47

NORFOLK

= A FOUNDER’S DAY LUNCHEON was
held in the Lee Room at the Monti-
cello Hotel on Washington’s birth-
day, Monday, February 22. A large
assembly of alumni turned out to
hear Dr. Charles ‘Turner, Professor
of History, tell of Washington and
Lee, its past and its future pro-
eram.

T. Cox Joynes, 52, President of
the chapter, presided over the meet-
ing. Bill Washburn, who was also
present, made brief remarks about
the alumni program and the plans
for the chapter during the spring.

RICHMOND

‘The annual formal dinner dance
for the Richmond Chapter took
place in the Rotunda Club on Sat-
urday, February 6. In this elegant
setting alumni, together with their
wives and dates, joined for cock-
tails and dinner. The arrangements
were made by President John F.
Kay, Jr., 51, and the ofhcers of the
chapter.

Following dinner a “Dixieland
Band” played for the dance until
the early hours of the morning,
ending with the tunes of “The
Swing” and “College Friendships.”
President Kay, in welcoming the
members to the dance, noted that
is was probably the largest crowd
for the annual affair.

NORTH TEXAS

m MAKING A whirlwind trip around
the state of ‘Texas, Dean James
Farrar, Director of Admissions,
stopped in Forth Worth, December
10. After an afternoon of visitations
at the local high schools, Jim met
with a large group of alumni at the
Fairway Steak House.

The arrangements were made by
Tommy L. Larimore, ’59, and.Rob-
ert E. Collett, *60, who presided
over the alumni meeting. Dean Far-
rar’s remarks were enthusiastically
received and everyone expressed

48

hope that the affair could become
an annual occasion.

ms UNDER THE leadership of C. M.
-atrick, Jr., 55, outgoing President
of the North ‘Texas Chapter, Dean
James Farrar visited several of the
high schools in the Dallas area
Wednesday, December 9, where he
talked to prospective students and
their parents about admission to
Washington and Lee.

In the evening a stag cocktail and
dinner party for alumni was held
at the ‘Terrace Room of the Dallas
Country Club. Many alumni enthu-
siastically received the recent in-
formation about Washington and
Lee which Dean Farrar gave in his
remarks to the group.

At the conclusion of the meeting
a brief business session was con-
ducted. Maurice E. Purnell, Jr.,
‘61, was elected president. In as-
suming his duties Purnell requested
C. M. “Pat” Patrick to remain as
liaison committeeman between the
admissions office and the various
local high schools. Plans for a
spring were discussed
briefly.

meeting

SAN ANTONIO
® WITH THE guidance of Ganahl
Walker, ’40, Dean James D. Farrar
visited several schools in the San
Antonio area on ‘Tuesday, Decem-
ber 8th. In the evening a dinner
meeting was held for all alumni
in the Petroleum Center Club.
Robert H. Seal, ’44, president of

 

Joun F. Crantz, ’58, left, and Tommy L. LAriMore, ’59, center, chat wilh DEAN JAMES D.
FARRAR during his visit to the Ft. Worth chapter.

the chapter, presided over the ban-
quet and introduced Dean Farrar
as the principal speaker.

The alumni received Dean Far-
rar’s information most enthusiasti-
cally and at the conclusion of the
meeting expressed a strong appeal
that San Antonio be included on
his regular visitation to high
schools throughout the country on
matters of admissions.

NEW ORLEANS

m AFTER SPLENDID arrangements by
President Jack McMillan and the
other officers, the alumni and _ par-
ents of present students met togeth-
er at Delmonico’s restaurant on
‘Tuesday evening, February 2nd.

The guest of honor was Bill
Washburn, who made brief ze-
marks on some of the more recent
news from the University. Joe
Lykes, Jr., presided at the meeting.
Color slides of the campus were
shown.

SHREVEPORT

# AN ENTHUSIASTIC group of alumni
and parents of present students wel-
comed W. C. “Bill”? Washburn at a
reception at the Shreveport Club
on Thursday, February 4.

Recent colored slides of the cam-
pus were shown and_ discussion
took place on many of the recent
developments at the University.
Following the reception a group
joined together for dinner.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Anniversary
Class Reunions

for
1915, 1925, 1940, 1950, 1960 |

Hurry! Make your plans NOW to attend!

(See page 35 for details of the program)

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ommemorative Plates
ote (Wedgwood)
Sold only in sets of eight different scenes

Price, $27.00 per set, f.0.b., Lexington, Virginia

Available in Blue color only

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

