SPRING 1965

A Report

On Journalism

 

The 50th anniversary class of 1915: seated, l-r, R. W. Fowikes, W. A. KELEHER, JAMES H. MCGINNIS, MApISON P. Cok, WILBUR C. HALL,

GAston CuHaves, C. C. CHAMBERS, Kt WILLIAMS, PAauL C. THomas. Standing, l-r, JONAH L. LARRICK, ROBERT W. WINBORNE, R. N. LAT-

TURE, W. C. LirrLe, W. K. Taytor, G. R. SHaw, C. M. Switzer, JERRYA. BuRKE, JAMES E. BEAR, Roy SMITH, FRANK B. HAYNE, Epwarp L.
JUNKIN.

The 25ih anniversary class of 1940: seated, l-r, G. W. JAMes, F. S. Beaziie, M. P. Crocker, W. C. WASHBURN, FRANK J. GILLIAM, S. LEWIs,

L. M. Kenna, W. B. Wacker, E. H. MILter, J. C. Waite. Kneeling, J. A. BILtincstey, W. S. Metcacr, R. P. Baker, D. W. Watts, H. R.

STEPHENSON, L. G. YouNG, U. F. CouLBouRN, C. O. Turner. Standing, J. S. Broome, L. Boorn, B. H. FArser, R. A. DeMeENTI, E. Woop,

WARD, R. W. Boisseau, T. E. Bruce, K. Lirrerar, L. SpAuLDING, B. V. Ayers, J. G. Akin, C. C. Curt, R. S$. Hurcueson, E. B. Morcan, W.
F. SAUNDERS, H. T. SHEPHERD, F. A. FEDDEMAN, L. E. Carson, R. V. HERSEY.

 

 

 

ee

_
—

a

Bee

eo
7 a

 

a
. See

7

 e.

 

 

-

oe

tes

 

 

 

 

The department’s main lecture room has large capacity, special projection facilities for films.

SPACIOUS CLASSROOMS Are Well-Equipped,
Well Lighted, with Room for Growth

The advertising laboratory doubles as a classroom and a workroom where students plan and display their layouts.

 

I MAGAZINE

 

4 THE ALUM

LIBRARY
AND LOUNGE
re Centers for

tudent Study

nd Relaxation

  
 
   

Waynesboro Editor Louis SPILMAN speaks at the dedication of the student lounge named in his honor and
contributed by his newspaper, the Waynesboro News-Virginian.

Pror. RieGEL, MR. SPILMAN, and PRESIDENT COLE in the new lounge, which includes FM radio and television sets; another view of the
Moss Library.

 

 

SPRING 1965

Or

NEWSROOMS, STUDIOS, and Other Centers
Of Student Activity Develop Skills

 

 

 

 

The Frank Fuller Fund, supported

by some twenty Virginia and Wash-

ington news media, provides full-

service Associated Press wires for
student use.

 

 

Top left, BARTON W. Morris, JR.,
left, vice-president and executive
editor of the ‘VYimes-World Corpo-
ration of Roanoke, inspects the
broadcasting facilities of the de-
partment. The ‘Vimes-World Corpo-
ration has contributed to the de-
velopment of journalism education
at Washington and Lee. Mrs. Mor-
ris and Asst. PRor. JOHN K. JEN-
NINGS are at right. Center, students
edit 16 mm film in a special work-
room devoted to the production of
student film projects. Opposite, a
spacious newsroom provides work
space where students learn make-up
and editing techniques and where
the department’s student city editor
dispatches his reporters to “cover”
Lexington and Rockbridge County.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Pressman DONALD TABBUT super-
vises the operation of the print-
ing press on which the Alumni
Magazine, the Ring-tum Phi, and
a host of other University pub-
lications are printed during the
academic year.

HE PRI
as Elbow

ow in Its

 

Compositor EDWIN WALKER, right, assists student editors
of the Ring-tum Phi at the make-up stone.

Veteran chief of shop is C. HARoLp Lauck, right, Separate rooms for the major shop functions are a feature of the new facilities for

with PRESIDENT COLE. Mr. Lauck is nationally the Journalism Laboratory Press. This is a view of the composing room and its
recognized as a printing craftsman. linotype equipment.

SPRING 1965 ”

  
 

Enlightenment in an advertising class comes to senior BILL Davin of Harwinton,
Conn., in the series at left. Above, senior JAY GIRARD of Glenbrook, Conn., is the son
of the late E. N. S. Grrarb, *34, a journalism department alumnus. Below, junior
Maurice Fuiress of Clifton Forge, Va., discusses the Ring-tum Phi with Jack A.
THOMPSON, editor and publisher of the Clifton Forge Daily Review. In the past 12
years, the department has had four majors who cut their journalistic teeth wnder
Thompson’s guidance before coming to Washington and Lee.

 

Dedicated Students Are the
Lifeblood of the Department

8 . THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

-
at

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-
a
Fw

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7
:
.
- -
i
oa
-
-
oe
a
a
oe -
a
a

 

 

 

a p

other forces:

~

 

ee

So

 

>

7
i
‘

e-

bem

-

majori ng in jour-

 

oraduat 1965 | ary and Jur — | od y at was generally
_ me —— Jam — a : " _ 7 ; —  nalism majors to take jobs with

 

 

 

 

nt 1 faculty we

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sates
ats

 

 

 

 

 
                     

 

aes ah Mae

a
OS

7

oe
SS
7

:

-
a
:

 

A Distinctive Classroom Delivery... .

Protessor Riegel’s ‘Technique
In a Lecture Brings Out

A Masterful Use of Gesture;
Journalism Students of the
Past 35 Years Will Recall
‘These and Other Favorites

 

SPRING 1965

 

 

dh,

Pror. PAxTON Davis joined Washington and Lee’s faculty in 1953
after a distinguished career as a reporter and feature writer with
newspapers in Winston-Salem, N. C, and Richmond, Va. He
continues to be active in newspaper work by serving as Book Edi-
tor of the Roanoke Times. Pror. Davis is the author of ‘Two Sol-
diers, The Battle of New Market, and other works have ap-
peared in Playboy, Bluebook, and Shenandoah. A new novel
will be published this fall.

 

Two Other Excellent Professors . . .

oo Asst. PRor. JOHN K. JENNINGS graduated from Washington and Lee
in 1956 and returned as a faculty member in 1959 after duty with
the Armed Forces Radio Service and commercial radio stations. He
directs the Communications Laboratory and teaches courses in

broadcasting and photography.

 

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

telephones I would like to be able to say, ‘Yes, I have

just the man tor you.

Are there obstacles that hinder the service the
department might render? Are the University’s admis-
stons policy and standards in any way a factor here?

“You pose a difficult problem. It is quite possible
that admission standards bar a good many dedicated
young men with a high potential for success in the
communications field. It is also possible that a shad-
ing of admission standards for such young men might
result in greater service to the professions by the de-
partment. ‘The danger is to the standing of the B.A.
degree; so far the department has never asked for
special consideration.”

One member of your advisory council of profes-
sional journalists has suggested that the University
adopt a double standard in admissions that would
permit more students interested in journalism careers
to come here. They would not be subject to the same
criteria as non-journalism majors. What is your re-
action to such a suggestion?

‘After my answer to your previous question, it may
be a contradiction to suggest that it is indeed un-
fortunate that the regulations are so discouraging to
young men who may be outstandingly competent and
promising. I have in mind, for example, the pro-
liferating junior colleges of the country, and the out-
standing young men who may come out of them with
a career interest in communications and a program
such as Washington and Lee’s. What could be more
logical than to offer such young men our journalism
and communications curriculum with its cognate
courses in the social sciences? But the degree require-

The Department of Journalism and
Communications is administrator of
the Alfred I. duPont Awards Foun-
dation for Radio and_ Television,
with PRor. RIEGEL serving as Cura-
tor and PRESIDENT COLE acting as
chairman of the awards committee
of judges. At right, the committee
meets to consider winners for the
1964 broadcasting year. Besides the
department staff, present with Pres-
IDENT COLE are DWIGHT SARGENT,
curator of the Nieman Foundation;
TURNER CATLEDGE, managing editor
of the New York Times; and Mrs.
ROBERT STUART, president of the
League of Women Voters (along
the far wall), and LAWRENCE LAuR-
ENT, TV-radio editor of the Wash-
ington Post (at far right in picture).

SPRING 1965

ments here are such that most transfers would have
to take a filth undergraduate year. I don’t know the
solution, which I refer to higher authority, but I re-
gret the lost opportunity.”’

What is the prospect here for summer institutes,
workshops, or short courses for journalists and com-
munications people?

“Good. The number and timing of such institutes
depends upon. the interest and response of profes-
sionals.”

The department is actively engaged in two major
outside affiliations—the administration of the Alfred
I. duPont Awards for Radio and Television, and the
sponsorship of the Southern Interscholastic Press As-
sociation. Can you summarize the nature of these ac-
tivities, their purposes, and their efforts?

“The administration of the Alfred I. duPont
Awards Foundation was undertaken in response to
the wishes of Mrs. duPont, and has associated the unt-
versity with the recognition of meritorious perform-
ance in broadcasting. ‘There have been fringe benefits,
such as the Foundation’s scholarships. ‘The Southern
Interscholastic Press Association is a service of the de-
partment to editors of scholastic publications, and their
teacher-advisers, in the South in the interests of im-
proving standards of excellence and promoting an
interest in communications and in professional careers.
So far as I know, it is the university’s only direct con-
tact with secondary schools through a service func-
tion.”

Last fall, the department was visited by a commit-
tee of the American Council on Education in Journal-

 

15

ism. Their report recommended that the accreditation
of the department by the Council be reaffirmed. Can
you summarize the findings of this committee?

“The report was generally complimentary. We
have been accredited since soon after World War II,
with visitations about five years apart.”

How many colleges and universities possess ac-
credited departments or schools of journalism and
communticattons?

“Forty-seven institutions are on the latest accredita-
tion list.”

What other accredited programs are there in this
area?

‘The nearest are at the Universities of North Caro-
lina, Maryland, and West Virginia.”

What percentage of the total accredited schools
or departments are solely undergraduate in nature?

“Sorry, I don’t know, but probably a small mi-
nority.”’

How do undergraduate and graduate programs
differ?

“That depends on the institution. They differ in
the amount of research and independent study, for
one thing. Some graduate programs go in heavily for
‘communicology,’ or the application of sociological
mensuration to the mass media.”

Has Washington and Lee ever offered a master's
degree in journalism?

“T have never heard of it.’

Under what conditions, if any, would you constd-
er offering a graduate program here?

“We now offer a ‘Certificate in Journalism’ for
professional competence. It is designed for under-
graduates, but a holder of a B.A. degree may earn it
after a concentrated year in the department. An M.A.
program would be a better way to serve the profes-
sions and make maximum use of faculty and facilities.
It hasn’t been seriously considered, but perhaps it
should be.”

What are the problems in finding faculty mem-
bers to teach in journalism and communications?

“The problems are acute. ‘There are skillful or ex-
perienced practitioners, and there are intellectuals or
scholars. ‘The combination, a man who has good
professional credentials and the intellectual quali-
ties that make him at home in a republic of arts and

16

letters—and can also teach—is, to coin a phrase, a rare

bird.”

Can you describe the way in which your depart-
ment uses visiting professional newsmen to augment
its faculty and staff?

“The wide scope of our curriculum would be im-
possible without the employment of some outside
experts. For editing and design we have the services
of the assistant managing editor of the Richmond
Times-Dispatch, and for the management course we
have the general manager of the Times-World Corpo-
ration in Roanoke. Both of these lecturers commute to
the campus.”

 

WILLIAM G. LEVERTY, assistant managing editor of
the Richmond ‘Times-Dispatch, is a veteran mem-
ber of the department’s visiting faculty, EDWARD
Backus, foreman of the Journalism Laboratory
Press, is another part-time member of the journal-
ism faculty, teaching the course in printing and
graphic arts formerly taught by C, HARoLD LAUCK.

At least one of your 1965 graduates expresses a
desire to teach journalism as a career. To what extent
do students work towards advanced degrees in jour-
nalism as preparation for college teaching?

“The trend is toward higher degrees everywhere,
in any discipline. But we would need another day to
discuss that problem, and in the end we would still
be confronted by the trend.”

The Department of Journalism and Communica-
tions is often referred to as the Lee Memorial Jour-
nalism Foundation. Can you trace briefly the history
of the foundation and describe the dimension of this
endowment?

“As I mentioned before, the Southern Newspaper
Publishers Association undertook an endowment cam-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

paign to re-establish journalism at Washington and
Lee. “The Lee Memorial Journalism Foundation’
recognizes the endowment and its memorial pur-
pose. I am told that between $40,000 and $50,000
was turned over to the university for this project
in 1921 and 1922, a considerable sum in those days.
Much more was pledged. Donors also equipped the
printing laboratory. While most of the original equip-
ment has been replaced, the original installation was
vital. There have been other endowment gifts in more
recent years, including one gift of $50,000 from the
Roanoke newspapers.”

Does this endowment provide the major source of
operating income for the department, or does this
come from normal Unwwersity budgeting?

“I know nothing about the bookkeeping, nor have
[ inquired. I have always assumed that we are mainly
supported, like any other department, out of general
funds. One result of the endowment may be the fact
that we had a respectable non-teacher operating
budget long before many other departments.

It is believed by many persons, including many
alumni, that Washington and Lee is the site of “the
nation’s first journalism school.’ Can you give a brief
history of the department and set the record straight
as to the University’s proper claim in regard to jour-
nalism education?

“It is my impression that priority can be claimed
for General Lee’s concept, intention, and initiative, at
a time when journalistic instruction at the college lev-

el was unknown, rather than for any great accom-
plishment. Lee apparently felt that the greatest need
for the rehabilitation of the South after the war
was strong leadership of public opinion, law, business,
and engineering. Concerning public opinion, this
meant better editors. In 1869, at General Lee’s insti-
gation, the college offered fifty ‘press scholarships.’
Some ‘scholars’ arrived, including some nominated by
local typographical unions. The Journalistic instruc-
tion seems to have been of the most practical kind,
offered by a Major Lafferty in his local newspaper of-
fice. ‘he project languished after General Lee’s death.
It was not ‘the nation’s first journalism school,’ but
General Lee planted a seed that bore fruit later.”

What does the future hold for journalism and
communications education at Washington and Lee?
What kind of department do you envisage ten years
from now?

‘My crystal ball is reflecting radioactive fall-out
today. However, if I am still here, I would like to see
a continuing improvement in quality—in instruction,
facilities, and services. It’s a cliché, but the strength
of a curriculum is not measured by its label but by the
quality of its faculty. It we are intellectually lively, in-
novators, and creative, and at the same time maintain
independence and critical integrity, material help
should flow to us naturally, and the influence of the
university should be greatly extended both through
our graduates and in direct services to communications
and the public through the department’s knowledge,
competence, perceptiveness, and example.”’

 

Each spring, thousands of high school journalists swarm on the campus for the annual. convention
of the Southern Interscholastic Press Association, sponsored by the Department of Journalism
and Communications,

SPRING 1965

17

Sa,
“=
bry

 

 

In order, Washington and
Lee’s Tom Wo tre, the sports

world’s Tom Wo tre, and
New York’s Tom Wo tre!!!

seems to whisper all the time. ‘The
whole...zone around his office, a
kind of horsehair-stuffing atmos-
phere of old carpeting, framed New
Yorker covers, quiet cubicles and
happy-shabby, baked-apple gentili-
ty, is a Whisper Zone. One gets
within 4o feet of it and every-
body ...is whispering, all the sec-
retaries and everybody. The Shawn
Whisper; the whisper zone radiates
out from Shawn himself. Shawn in
the hallway slips along as sound-
lessly as humanly possible and—
chooooo—he meets somebody right
there in the hall. The nodding!
The whispering! Shawn is 57 years
old but still has a boyish face, a
small, plump man, round in the
cheeks. He always seems to have
on about 20 layers of clothes, about
three button-up sweaters, four vests,
a couple of shirts, two ties, it looks
that way, a dark shapeless suit over
the whole ensemble, and white cot-
ton socks.

“Hello—Mr.—,” he begins nod-
ding, ‘—Taylor—how—are—you,

with his head down, nodding

SPRING 1965

down, down, down, down, ‘—it’s—
nice—’ his head is down and he
rolls his eyes up and looks out from
under his own forehead ‘—to—see—
you—’ and then he edges back with
his hand out, his head nodding,
eyes rolled up, back foot edging
back, back, back, back, ‘“—very—
good—to—see—you’ nodding, smil-
ing—infectious! Good for one! One
does the same * * * One becomes
quiet, gentle, genteelly, magnifi-
cently numbly, so—”’

* * * “Yes! And suddenly, after
4o years, it all adds up. Whispering,
inconspicuous—but courtly—form-
al, efficient—but sympathetic—per-
fection!—what are these but, pre-
cisely! the perfect qualifications for
a museum custodian, an undertak-
er, a mortuary scientist. But, of
course! ‘Thirteen years ago, upon
the death of Harold Ross, precise-
ly that difficult task befell William
Shawn: to be the museum curator,
the mummifier, the preserver-in-
amber, the smiling embalmer...
for Harold Ross’s New Yorker mag-
azine.”

 

The Wolfe article provoked a
remarkable volley of replies, and
the Herald Tribune ran columns

of the letters in the magazine.

E. B. White, an old New Yorker
hand, one of the distinguished Am-
erican writers of out time, wrote:
“Mr. Wolfe’s piece on William
Shawn violated every rule of con-
duct I know anything about. It is
sly, cruel and to a large extent un-
documented, and it has, I think
shocked everyone who knows what
sort of person Shawn really is...
The virtuosity of the writer makes
it all the more contemptible, and to
me, as I read it, the spectacle was
of a man being dragged for no ap-
parent reason at the end of a rope
by a rider on horseback—a rider, in-
cidentally, sitting very high in the
saddle these days and very sure of
his mount. ‘The piece is not merely
brutal, it sets some sort of record
for journalistic delinquency, for it
made sport of a man’s physical ap-
pearance and_ psychological prob-
lems—which is as low as you can

go.

19

 

oe
es

 

Planter for five years, then was an
executive with Southern States Co-
ioperative. Dr. Wolfe retired in
1962, and he and his wife now live
at 5401 Cary Street Rd., where
their son last visited them at Christ-
mastime.

Young ‘Tom went to Ginter Park
School for six years and then to St.
Christopher’s School for six more.
At St. Christopher’s he played foot-
ball, basketball and baseball on
various light-weight and junior var-
sity teams. He was sports editor of
the Pine Needle, the school news-
paper, in his next to last year, and
filled up the sports columns with
eloquent defenses of Coach Hugh
Brenaman’s fortitude in sticking
with the single-wing formation
when most other teams were switch-
ing to the T. :

As a senior, Wolfe became co-edi-
tor of the Pine Needle. “I turned
it into a scholastic Sporting News,”
he recalled last week.

He did not mention it, but
Wolfe was an excellent student at
St. Christopher’s and was elected
twice to Student Council. He was
chairman of the Student Council
in his senior year. ‘The faculty and
staff remember him as a good in-
fluence generally, a very good stu-
dent and, according to at least
one teacher, a promising writer.

At Washington and Lee, where
he enrolled in 1947, Wolfe contin-
ued to be a good student, good in-
fluence and = promising writer.
There, too, his baseball career,
such as it was, came to flower.

“I made the team in my junior
and senior years as a pitcher,” he
recalled. “My record was o and
1. I had tremendous stuff—I could
make the ball do anything—but the
trouble was, I gave the batters too
long to look at it. I was not fast,
you might say.”

Wolfe, who was sports editor of
the college newspaper and a con-
tributor to a literary magazine
named Shenandoah, majored in
American studies and graduated in

SPRING 1965

1951. He went on to Yale where he
“hung around for four or five
years getting a Ph.D.” ‘The doctor-
ate was in sociology, his special field
of study being what he described as
“the social side of political activity
among writers.”

Meanwhile, there are further de-
velopments on the sporting scene
to account for. In the summers of
1950 and 1951, Wolfe pitched in
the Sertoma sandlot league in Rich-
mond. He said he won some games
because “I developed this screwball
that was even slower than my other
pitches.”

Several professional scouts saw
Wolfe pitch. They had come, he
noted, to watch Mel Roach play
“but I had ideas of making them
notice me.” It is likely that the
scouts did notice him, Wolfe said,
because Roach batted about .750
against Wolfe’s offerings, includ-
ing the famous screwball.

When he left Yale with his Ph.D.
in 1956, Wolfe did not have a pro-
fession. “I tried being a Bohemian
because that appealed to a girl I
had met in New Haven, but I gave
it up after about three weeks. I
liked luxury too much to succeed
as a Bohemian.”

He read a book (which he still
reveres) called ‘““How to Land the
Job You Want,” and went off to
New York to be a journalist. ‘The
Daily News offered him a job as a
copy boy, but he turned it down
when he sensed that the Daily
News only wanted to be able to say
that it had a copy boy with a Ph.D.
He went to work as a reporter on
the Springfield (Mass.) Union, and
moved to the Washington Post in
1959. His work there included a
fine, impressionistic piece about
Castro’s Cuba that won an award
and attracted wide attention.

Wolfe joined the Herald Trib-
wne in 1962. A bachelor, he lives in
Greenwich Village, which he in-
sists has become a sort of middle-
class, downtown Suburbia in lower
Manhattan.

The awesome Wolfe prose style
with which the world is now be-
coming familiar did not emerge in
its full opulence until 1963. He
went to California that summer to
do a story for Esquire on the cus-
tom-car cult there in never-never
land, and took on reams of notes
and impressions. But when he sat
down to unite the story, it was “too
big for him” as the saying goes. He
just couldn’t get his impressions
down satisfactorily, and finally he
gave up on it.

At the urging of an Esquire edi-
tor, Wolfe did agree to write an
account of his investigations in
California in memo form. Another
writer would be brought in to do
the article from Wolfe’s notes.

He wrote “Dear Byron” (the edi-
tor) at the top of the first page and
swiftly turned out a 49-page memo.

“My style had always been a
little purple,”’ Wolfe said. “I had
always swung from the heels when
I wrote, but now the stuff just
poured out. By writing to just one
specific person, I made myself feel
loose and easy, and I found that I
was writing with this combination
of colloquial and esoteric language.
And that, I suppose, is my so-called
—style.’

Esquire knocked off the “Dear
Byron” at the top of the memo,
published the entire outpouring as
received, and it was a sensation.
‘That article will be the title piece
in Wolfe’s book that Farrar, Straus
and Giroux will publish in June,
“The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-
Flake Streamline Baby.” _

Wolfe’s favorite piece, and ours,
will be in the book, too. It is called
“The Last American Hero Is Jun-
ior Johnson. Yes!” It is about the
car culture of the rural South from
bootleggers to stockcar-racing car-
nivals, and the cars are snorting
and the words are tumbling, and
the typography is jumping around
like op art gone crazy, and you will
have to read it to understand it,
and you should. Yes! ‘Terrific!

21

A Prohaska
Mural for
Reid Hall

LARGE MURAL depicting the
A mass communications media
was formally presented in May for
permanent display in the foyer of
recently -remodeled Reid Hall
which houses the Department of
Journalism and Communications.

The mural, executed on a piece
of canvas nine-feet, 10-inches wide
and eight feet tall, is the work of
Ray Prohaska, currently artist-in-
residence at the University and a
noted painter and illustrator. It is
described by the artist as “abstract-
expressionist with some sugges-
tions Of pop art.

The first step in painting the
mural was a consultation between
Prohaska and Prof. O. W. Riegel.
Armed with a list of ideas pertain-
ing to the communications media,
Prohaska first drew several rough
drafts, then a small comprehensive
sketch of the mural. After minor
revision of this small painting, Pro-
haska took a color photograph of
it, which he projected onto a can-
vas the same size as the finished
mural. ‘This gave him the proper
dimensions for the objects depicted
in the final painting.

Included in the mural is a rep-
lica of the ‘Telstar satellite (‘I
started the painting before they
sent ‘Early Bird’ up, and I decided
not to change it,’” Prohaska said).
An image of a Japanese dancing
girl is projected to ‘Telstar and is
reflected onto a television screen
at the other end of the mural. ‘The
image is carried along on perforat-
ed teletype tape of the kind fed in-
to newspaper automated Linotype
machines.

The artist explained that the
punched code on one length of the
tape, if fed into a proper teletype,

22

 

Tiny TANYA RueGeL listens as the artist explains his “Communi-
cations” mural.

would spell out, “This mural was
designed and executed by Ray Pro-
haska, Artist in Residence at Wash-
ington and Lee University, in the
spring Of 1965.”

“We had a little fun while we
painted it,” Prohaska said.

Prominent in the upper right
area is a globe held by a human
hand, expressing the power of hu-
man-controlled communications.

Also included in the mural is a
reproduction of a modern rotary
printing press, printed onto the
canvas through the silk screen pro-
cess and representing the “dotted”
photographic images which appear
in newspapers. Next to it Is a like-
ness of an early Washington Hand
Press.

The words “War” and “Peace”
are spelled out backwards. ‘They
represent pieces of type, which are,
of course, cast in reverse. A film
strip, also printed onto the canvas
through the silk screen method,
presents repeated images of the late

Winston Churchill giving his fa-
mous “V for Victory” sign. ‘The
background color can be seen
through the various images, giving
the film strip the authentic illusion
of being transparent.

Various languages are depicted
through words or phrases. Included
are ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics,
Japanese, Chinese, Arabic, Greek,
German, English, Russian, Italian,
French and Spanish. The French
phrase “J’accuse” (I Accuse) 1s rem-
iniscent of the famous Emile Zola
libel trial.

A telegraph key, a radio-televis-
ion transmitting tower and a cam-
era lens represent other communi-
cations media.

At the formal presentation, Rie-
gel accepted the mural on behalf of
the department and thanked Pro-
haska “for an important painting,
for an important addition to Reid
Hall, and for an important event
in the history of Washington and
Lee University.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The fabled Blue Danube

winds through Hungary past

ruins of past wars. This pho-

to and others on the follow-

ing pages were taken by the
author.

 

Impressions of Eastern Europe—

—LEasy Travel, New Nationalism

By Pror. O. W. RIEGEL

Professor Riegel Served

In Eastern Europe During
And After World War II.
He Reports Here on His
Return as a Tourist Last

Summer Behind ‘‘The Iron

Curtain’”’

SPRING 1965

S 1 WRITE THESE LINEs (Spring, 1965) I have before
A me a London Observer reporting that the
watchtowers and double fences of barbed wire along
Hungary’s frontier with Austria are being removed.
The newspaper brings to my mind a sunny morning
eight months ago when I listened to a Hungarian
Deputy Foreign Minister, in his office near the Buda
embankment, explain the new Hungarian spirit of
friendship and rapprochement with the West. When
I chided him with the contradictory evidence of the
sinister watchtowers and plowed fields between barb-
ed wire we had just traversed to enter Hungary, he
said, “They are left-over souvenirs from the bad old
days; they will be removed as soon as we can get to it.”

They have got to it, and I mention this as evidence
that although my impressions of Eastern Europe date
from last summer, and although changes in the Com-
munist world can, and do, occur sometimes with be-
wildering speed, there has been no change in the new
course as we observed it then. On the contrary that
course has, if anything, and in spite of the effects of

Viet Nam—at least, so far—accelerat-
ed during the intervening months.

It was to observe and assess the
“new course’ that my wife and I
went to Wolfsburg, West Germany,
in early June, picked up a Volks-
wagen, drove to Berlin and across
East Germany, and spent the rest
of the nearly — three
months, looking around Eastern
Europe, talking to government of-

suimmer,

ficials, to newspaper and broadcast-
ing people, to teachers, to American
officials, to old friends and acquain-
tances in a number of countries,
and, so far as possible, to just ordi-
nary people everywhere.

A distinction must be made first
between how these countries appear
to foreign visitors and how they ap-
pear to citizens of those countries
who must live in them. These are
two quite different things.

I will try to take care quickly of
the Eastern Europe of the foreign
visitor. Eastern Europe is one ot
the best travel buys (that is getting
the most for your money) in the
world today, including Portugal.
Unless you are a finicky type that
always wants the plumbing to work
impeccably, the accommodations
are good, and usually cheap. The
cheapest we found was in Bulgaria.
The food for tourists is plentiful
and good; in fact, we found that
traveling in Communist Europe can
be literally, in a physiological sense,
a very broadening experience.

There are luxury hotels, such as
the International at Brno, in Mora-
via, and the Esplanade in Zagreb,
with grandly uniformed platoons of
servants that may make you rub
your eyes and say, ‘If this is Com-
munism, I’m a Watusi.’ ‘There are
beach resorts on the Black Sea that
resemble Miami Beach, and which
we didn’t visit for that reason.

All of the Socialist countries, as
they like to call themselves, are
eager for tourists and particularly
for hard Western currencies, which
are vital to their economies. ‘This

24

means that every effort is made to
accommodate tourists. “There are
still old-fashioned frontiers, some
with double lines of barbed wire,
but they aren’t difficult for persons
with Western passports. Some are
unexpectedly and therefore incredi-
bly easy, as Bulgaria.

Obviously the police have one set
of rules for citizens and another
for tourists, and we found some
resentment among the
against this double standard. Add
friendliness toward

people

the inherent
Americans of most of the people,
regardless of what the official po-
litical relations of the governments
may be; and add the fact that East-

contact with people of the West,
for political reasons, that visiting
Eastern Europe has become prac-
tically a patriotic exercise. (It was
in Lexington, at the Marshall Li-
brary President
Johnson delivered his “Bridges to
the East” address last May.)
Another reason for the absence
of Americans, I think, may be a
fear that Communists are itching
to do something dreadful to capi-
talist throwing
them in jail. This wouldn't happen,

dedication, that

Americans, like

I am convinced, unless you did
something really outrageous like
throwing a punch at a policeman,
or throwing a bomb. One reason

 

Visitors to the Communist bloc nations still encounter occasional propaganda posters,
although Proressor RirceL found they differed from one country to another. This
“Peace” poster decorates a building in Kazanlik, Bulgaria.

ern Europe is in the pre-automo-
bile age except for certain areas
in the capital cities, which means
good, hard-surfaced roads with lit-
tle traffic, and you have a special
and in some ways a remarkably at-
tractive touring situation, to say
the least.

Eastern Europe has been dis-
covered by economy-minded Brit-
ish, French, and Germans, whom
we found in large numbers. We
encountered few Americans. One
reason for this may be ideological.
Many Americans are squeamish
about contact with Communists,
although our government is so
much interested in opening up the
closed societies of Eastern Europe
and bringing their peoples into

is that any publicity about mis-
treatment of Americans would be
a catastrophe for the tourist busi-
ness that Eastern European coun-
tries so desperately want and need.
Because of the tight police system,
I have never felt safer than I did
in Eastern Europe, and | would
be willing to walk the streets of
Bucharest or Sophia at any time
of day or night, something I would
hesitate to do in areas of New York
or Washington.

Now for some general observa-
tions.

A breaking up of the Commun-
ist bloc, both ideologically and eco-
nomically, is quite evident. ‘The
word “satellite” no longer fits the
present situation. Nor is the word

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

“bloc” accurate. All of the Social-
ist states are quite different. ‘This
is the “polycentrism,” or ‘Titoism,”
or “national Communism” that we
hear so much about.

The key is nationalism. Quite
visibly the nations are returning to
their old national interests, cus-
jealousies, and
dislikes. The popularity of politi-
cal leaders is in direct proportion to
their assertion of the national iden-
tity and the national interest. ‘The
most dramatic example of this is
Janos Kadar, the Hungarian pre-
mier, who has evolved from. the
hated, Moscow-backed oppressor of
1956 into a popular leader of an

9?

toms, ambitions,

ey sy Sat ees as
& Ses Ka

is something of an economic island
engaged in building its own eco-
nomic autonomy, from heavy in-
dustry to agriculture. ‘There are
increasingly numerous deviations
from Marxism-Leninism, Russian
style, as in the appearance of such
“capitalistic” devices as labor in-
centives, decentralization of plan-
ning, and competition among fac-
tories, industries, and agricultural
cooperatives. Comecon (Council for
Economic Mutual Assistance), the
Eastern European counterpart of
the Common Market, has made
progress in recent years but is not
yet off the ground.

As one observer told me in Bu-

 

The Poiana Brasov Hotel in Romania, one of many resorts in Eastern Europe eager to
boost tourist trade among Americans and West Europeans, PROFESSOR RIEGEL found rates
very reasonable in most instances.

increasingly ‘“Magyarized” Hun-

gary.

We see, in brief, a coalition of

national states in Eastern Europe,
held together by the sheer mass
and weight of their powerful neigh-
bor, the Soviet Union, but each
pursuing its separate national way
as best it can. The new situation
has been confirmed by the reaction
of these countries to the departure
of Mr. Khrushchev, during whose
time the Soviet police control was
largely removed and the process of
decentralization begun.

‘These nations have, in substance,
successfully rebelled against a Rus-
sian concept that they should be
agricultural appendages of an in-
dustrial Soviet Union. Each nation

SPRING 1965

charest, the relations of Rumania at
this time are better with the United
States than they are with the Soviet
Union.

I don’t want to give the impres-
sion that governments are shaky in
those countries, or that there is any
likelihood of a revolt such as oc-
curred in Hungary in 1956. If there
is any fear of subversion, we certain-
ly saw no sign of it, and no Ameri-
can official in’ those countries
would say that there is any active
opposition worth mentioning. Of
course, when you are talking about
closed, highly centralized countries
like the Communist nations, you
can easily be proved a liar next
week by totally unforeseen changes,
but it is my opinion that there is

little subversion and little fear of it.
‘There was trouble in Bulgaria this
winter, but it appeared to be limit-
ed to intra-party feuding on a
minor scale.

The last jamming of Western
broadcasts in Eastern Europe, in
Bulgaria, stopped more than a year
ago. You can hear Western broad-
casts, if you want to, on transistor
radios at beaches and swimming
pools. No one will stop you. ‘They
are dancing the twist in Budapest
and Sophia, and the frug in Prague.

Each of these nations is essential-
ly a tightly organized power sys-
tem. Each seems to be trying, in
often quite different ways, to take
advantage of a new freedom of ac-
tion to experiment and change
along national lines. ‘The result is a
confusing mixture of Communism,
collectivization, and what might be
called at least incipient or creeping
capitalism. ‘The new approach
tends to be pragmatic rather than
doctrinaire, an increasing willing-
ness to try something different from
the orthodox line, and, if it doesn’t
work, drop it for something else.

These are poor countries, and,
with the exception of Rumania,
poor in natural resources. ‘The rate
of productivity has been high, but
within the last year or two the rate
has begun to falter and sink, again
with the possible exception of Ru-
mania. But one sees no sign of
undernourishment, lack of ade-
quate medical care, or even beg-
gars, although private capitalism
isn’t hard to find in the form of
black marketeers who want to buy
dollars, transistor radios, and elec-
tric razors.

The present situation is, of
course, a big change from the rigid
Stanlinist control of ten or a dozen
years ago . The general feeling
among the people with whom we
talked was that things are much
better, although many complained
of economic difficulties, lack of
personal income, and various kinds

of shortages. Human_ problems,

c

25

 

such as getting ahead, office politics,
man-woman relationships, and the
like, continue as they always have,
everywhere. A pretty student pre-
paring for a diplomatic career at
the University of Bucharest grum-
bled that Marxism-Leninism had
produced no solution for the prob-
lem of the unreliability of the Ru-
manian male with his women—his
propensity to love them and leave
them. In Czechoslovakia and Hun-
gary there is a good deal of cyni-
cism. A typical Hungarian joke re-
lates that a Hungarian, standing on
a Budapest street that has been re-
named “Mao ‘Tse-Tung  Boule-
vard,”’ says, “Things weren't so bad
under the Russians.” In Rumania,
every kilometer along major high-
ways you find propaganda signs
boasting of the accomplishments of
the regime and exhortations to the
citizen for greater productivity. In
Bulgaria there are some. You al-
most never see them in Czechoslo-
vakia and Hungary.

One of the greatest frustrations
of many people in these countries
is their inability to travel, especial-
ly to the West. ‘The reason for this
is not so much the unwillingness

26

of governments to let people leave
the country as it is their reluctance
to provide the precious hard cur-
rencies needed for foreign travel.
It is quite pathetic to hear a man
like Jan Werich at Prague, one of
the outstanding actors in the world
and a National Hero Artist, com-
plain that the government would
allow him only $5 a day for ex-
penses on a recent trip to the
United States and Canada. Inciden-
tally, the average worker in the
CSR makes about 1,400 kronen a
month (about $60). Judging by the
way he lives, I would guess that
Werich’s income is many _ times
that much. Nevertheless, about
70,000 Czechoslovaks traveled to
Western countries and overseas dur-
ing the first six months of last year.
In Bulgaria, on the other hand, few
people travel to hard currency
countries except diplomats.
National pride is a_ powerful
force in these countries. I came
away feeling that many changes
we would think desirable would
occur much more quickly if the
West refrained from pressuring and
patronizing the governments of
these countries. We entered Hun-

Outside of Eastern Europe’s cities, the peasant’s
difficult life predominates. Scenes here in Ro-
mania and Yugoslavia.

gary, for example, at a time when
the Austrian newspapers were cas-
tigating the Hungarians for delay-
ing and putting a small tax on
Austrians who like to cross the
frontier to drink wine in neighbor-
ing Hungarian restaurants. Hun-
gary s reply was to close the border
to Austrians for a while. I suspect
that the Cardinal Mindszenthy case
would have been resolved long ago
if the West had not been so strident
about him. I also suspect that he is
a considerable burden to the lega-
tion staff, something like the man
who came to dinner; we didn’t see
him, but we heard his footsteps
overhead as he began his daily
walk.

Hungary was of special personal
interest because of my service there
for the State Department during
and immediately after World War
II. I found many old friends and
acquaintances, although some of
them had harrowing experiences
and narrow escapes from death in
the Stalinist days and in 1956. I
thought the mood somewhat sar-
donic and muted, but generally
hopeful. ‘They have profited from
liberalization perhaps more rap-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

idly than any other’ Eastern
country. ‘The police power has re-
laxed. ‘The government is allowing
them to buy cars, travel, and eat
well. ‘The Hungarian path of So-
cialism, they say in Budapest, leads
to the stomach. ‘They have reached
that point in a liberalized economy
where the big decision that a young
man has to make is whether he
should get married or buy a car.
Bulgaria is especially interesting
because this is the country that has
perhaps been most Stalinist, and
is most closely tied to Russia by
race, language, gratitude, and eco-
nomic dependence. ‘The changes
there are dramatic, and I think
there are more to come. Customs
inspection was as casual as Italy’s.
With the smiling connivance of a
frontier official we transacted, with
tourists going the opposite direc-
tion, a small currency exchange
which I know must have violated
all the rules. With professional
absent-mindedness, I walked out on
a hotel bill in ‘Tirnovo and when I
arrived at the hotel in Sophia the
lady clerk said she had received a
telephone call from ‘Tirnovo to re-
mind me of my bill. I said, “Aren’t
you going to arrest me?”’ (This was,
hopefully, a facetious question, but
vaguely inspired by the thought
that one could become a celebrity
in the United States as a victim

A bicycle race in Titov Veles, Yugoslavia
and the impressive monastery at Rila,
Bulgaria.

SPRING 1965

of the Bulgarian Police State). She
replied, “Don’t be silly.”

An interesting question is how
public opinion in the United States
is responding to the vast revolution-
ary changes not only in Eastern
Europe but also increasingly with-
in the Soviet Union itself. As far
as Eastern Europe is concerned,
knowledge of the change has been
building up for a good many

years, especially since the goth
Party Congress, first from the
reports of journalists and then

from the State Department, with
its adoption of a policy sometimes
referred to as “bridges to the East”’
or ““windows to the West.” Inciden-
tally, both bridges and windows are
two-way, so that a window to the
West, for instance, is also a window
to the East.

Since last summer there has been
a flood of news about change in
Eastern Europe; there are few days,
for example, when the New York
Times doesn’t carry long pieces on
the extraordinary ferment in the
Socialist countries. ‘The question
is whether American public opin-
ion, believing Communists and
Communism to be totally evil, can
be made to accept a warming up of
contacts and trade with Commun-
ist Eastern Europe. I have thought
that it probably could, especially
since a number of large business

 

interests in the United States have
recently endorsed a “bridges to
the East” policy that offers an ex-
pansion of foreign markets. A year
ago I attended a State Department
briefing on Eastern Europe for
journalists, many of whom were ed-
itors of foreign language and other
periodicals which have had anti-
Communism as a central theme. By
that time the word “satellite” had
been dropped from the State De-
partment vocabulary. ‘The journal-
ists listened glumly, and there were
a few protests. At a similar brief-
ing this spring for many of the
same journalists, there was only
one protest, and that a feeble one.

It should be pointed out, how-
ever, that the “bridges to the East”’
policy is being popularly promoted
not on the grounds that a detente,
peace, and _ close with
Communist countries are a good
thing in themselves, but as a Cold
War maneuver against the Soviet
Union. Whether it will succeed
can’t be answered now. After all,
several administrations Over many

relations

years have tried to win acceptance
of friendly relations with Commun-
ist Yugoslavia, but with ambiguous
success. Many things—Viet Nam,
for one—could again harden public
opinion in both the United States
and the Eastern countries of Eu-
rope.

 

no
“I

 

 

and unparalleled prestige. His jour-
ney from Mount Vernon to New
York, where he took the oath of
office at Federal Hall, was an eight-
day tribute to a national hero.”

The panel contains a copy of the
First Inaugural address written in
Washington’s own hand, engrav-
ings of triumphal arches erected
along the route from Mount Ver-
non to New York, a contemporary
print of the inaugural, and an en-
eraving of Mount Vernon shortly
after Washington’s death. ‘he pan-
el also contains a Portmanteau
trunk used by Washington during
the Revolution and a leather pack
bag used during his campaign with
General Braddock.

The second panel is devoted to
the Peale portrait and the actual
vorget that is depicted in the por-
trait. ‘he description here reads:

“Washington’s years as Com-
mander-in-Chief endowed — him
with the towering reputation which
he brought to the presidency.

The panel describing the Peale
portrait says:

“First portrait ever painted of
Washington, who, at the age of 40,

 

 

_.. By Mr. Peale, drawing my picture, 16.4."

nephew, Custis, noted that “this special and most
interesting picture formed the principal ornament of
the parlour of Mount Vernon for 27 years.”

Washington’s adopted son, George Washington
Parke Custis termed the portrait “a fine, expressive
picture, and said by his contemporaries, to be the
Washington in the prime of life—the countenance
open and manly, the mild blue eye, the whole be-
speaking intelligence, the dominion of lofty feelings,
and the passions at rest.”

Peale later painted other portraits of Washington.
He also did one of Lafayette as a member of the
American Army. These portraits passed through inher-
itance from the Washington family to the Lee family
(Washington’s adopted son had a daughter who be-
came Robert E. Lee’s wife).

The paintings were removed from Mount Vernon
to Arlington, the Custis home. During the Civil War,

SPRING 1965

when Union troops approached Arlington and_ the
family fled, Mrs. Lee carried the Peale portraits with
her to keep them from falling into the enemy’s hands.

General Lee, of course, became president of Wash-
ington College after the war and served until his
death in 1870. His son, George Washington ‘Custis
Lee, succeeded him as president of the institution
(the name was changed to Washington and Lee Uni-
versity) and served more than 25 years.

It was G. W. C. Lee who presented the famous
Peale portraits and other family art treasurers to the
University where they are on display in Lee Chapel.

It is doubly fitting that Washington’s portrait
hangs in the university’s chapel, for he was the univer-
sity’s first great benefactor, donating stock worth
$50,000 to W&L’s predecessor, Liberty Hall Academy,
in 1796. The name later was changed to Washington
Academy to honor him.

29

The Peale portrait of Washington is shown in its display case in the Hall of Presidents
at the New York World’s Fair.

is shown in the uniform of a Col-
onel in the Virginia Regiment.
Painted by Charles Willson Peale
at Mount Vernon in 1772. The
work descended by inheritance to
the family of Robert E. Lee, who
bequeathed it to the school iden-
tified with both families.”

Washington and Lee is identi-
fied as the lending institution.

The gorget is a piece of armor
that protected the throat. Washing-
ton wears one in the painting, and
the Massachusetts Historical So-
ciety provided the actual gorget
for the exhibit.

The final Washington panel's
description reads:

“Washington was an Olympian
President, who, through his care in
establishing precedents, perman-
ently molded the office. His con-
cern that the United States be
strong was based on experiences
during the Revolution, when mili-
tiamen fought bravely in defense of
their own villages but were reluct-
ant to undergo the discipline of
the army. In his Farewell Address
he urged his countrymen to form a
union of hearts and minds, fore-
swearing excessive party spirit and
geographical distinctions. After
many years devoted to public serv-
ice, he retired at last to his be-
loved Mount Vernon in 1797.”

30

 

The panel contains the Farewell
Address written in the president’s
own hand, the brass telescope used
by Washington after his retirement
to Mount Vernon, and engravings
of the first revolution at Lexington
and Concord.

Besides Washington, other pres-
idents honored by similar exhibits
include John Adams, ‘Thomas fel-
ferson, Andrew Jackson, James K.
Polk, Abraham Lincoln, Grover
Cleveland, ‘Theodore Roosevelt,
Woodrow Wilson, Franklin D.
Roosevelt, Harry S. ‘Truman,
Dwight D. Eisenhower, and John
F. Kennedy.

The Peale portrait, done at
Mount Vernon in 1772, depicts the
first President in the uniform of a
Virginia militia colonel. It is be-
lieved this is the same uniform he
wore in 1754 when he served in
British General Edward Braddock’s
expedition near the headwaters of
the Ohio River during the French
and Indian War.

The colorful uniform includes
a blue coat, scarlet facings with
bright metal buttons, dark red
waistcoat and breeches. On Wash-
ington’s head is a cocked hat, usu-
ally called a Wolfe hat. A plum col-
ored sash or scarf falls over his left
shoulder.

Visible in the crook of Washing-

ton’s left arm is the barrel of a long
rifle. A sword hilt can be seen be-
side his left hip.

If the viewer looks closely, he can
see the words, “Order of March”
written on a piece of paper protrud-
ing from a pocket in the waistcoat,
and the figure “22” (the number of
regiment) cast on
the metal buttons.

Washington’s

Washington, just turned 40 years
old and still a British subject, has
a fair, smooth complexion in the
painting. There is no evidence of
the scars from smallpox he con-
tracted on an earlier trip to the Bar-
bados and which reportedly left his
face marked for life.

This is the fourth “‘visit’’ for the
Peale protrait since coming into
Washington and Lee’s possession.
It hung in an exhibit of early
American portraits in the Museum
of Modern Art in conjunction with
the 1939-40 World’s Fair in New
York. It also hung in the Knoedler
Gallery in New York as part of a
celebration by the Stratford Board
and in the Corcoran Art Gallery
in Washington, D.C. during the
U.S. government's observance of the
George Washington Bicentennial.

Arrangements for the present
loan were handled by Frank A.
Parsons of the university staff and
Miss Phyllis Montgomery, exhibit
coordinator of the U.S. Commis-
sion for the Fair and curator of the
Hall of Presidents. ‘Two men in
widely divergent occupations, but
both experienced in packing val-
uable art treasures, crated the por-
trait for shipment to New York.
They are Dr. Marion Junkin, head
of the university’s department of
fine arts, and Peyton Craft, head
carpenter at the university. An
armed guard accompanied the por-
trait on its journey.

In its frame, the portrait is five
feet high and slightly more than
four feet wide. It weighs 50 pounds.

The painting will be returned to
its place in Lee Chapel after the
Fair closes in October.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Capt. duPont,

Union Hero,
Is Honored

With Special

Memorial

EARLY 101 YEARS after the
N event, Washington and Lee
on May 8 honored the memory of a
Union captain who took part in the
famous raid on Lexington by Gen-
eral David Hunter in 1864.

A plaque was dedicated in Wash-
ington Hall, citing the role played
by Henry Algernon duPont, Hunt-
er’s chief of artillery, in sparing the
Lexington community from greater
destruction.

Among those who consider Lex-
ington the Valhalla of the Confed-
eracy and who think of Washing-
ton and Lee and its Chapel as one
of the South’s shrines, there were
probably many eyebrows raised at
this gesture of admiration for a
“Yankee.”

But historical evidence suggests
the indebtedness of Lexington and
Washington and Lee to Captain
duPont and his reluctance to shell

SPRING 1965

 

PRESIDENT COLE and Kt WILLIAMS, 715, of Waynesboro, admire the. plaque

which honors CArpT. HENRY ALGERNON DUPONT as MAUuRICE DUPONT LEE looks

on at right. Below, PRESIDENT COLE shows the plaque to DUPOoNT’s son, the
present HENRY ALGERNON DUPONT of Winterthur, Del.

 

non-military targets and civilians.

When Hunter’s” raiders ap-
proached Lexington from Staunton
on June 11, 1864, a sporadic de-
fense was offered by Confederates
in the vicinity of the Virginia Mili-
tary Institute barracks. Capt. du-
Pont was ordered to return this
fire from a position on the north
bank of the Maury River.

When his cannon opened fire,
resistance quickly vanished, and
duPont halted the shelling, as he
later explained, because he didn’t
wish to inflict damage on non-mili-
tary targets or kill innocent peo-
ple.

His action may
damage to Washington College, for
the school was in his line of fire.
At least one ball is believed to have
struck the faculty home on_ the
front campus closest to the New-
comb Hall end of the Colonnade.

have spared

The memorial plaque describes
duPont as a man “whose qualities
of courage, honor, and _ integrity
helped save from destruction the
town of Lexington, Va., and Wash-
ington College.”

“Under a less sensitive and hu-
mane commander, hostile guns may
have taken many innocent lives and
inflicted untold damage on_ this
community and this university,”
the plaque notes. ee

Washington and Lee was en-
couraged to honor duPont by al-
umni and other admirers of the
Union hero who knew of the part
he played in the Hunter raid. Vari-
ous legends have developed con-
cerning this role, all tenuously con-
nected with accounts of other or re-
lated incidents that have subse-
quently been confused with du-
Pont’s actual activities in Lexing-
ton.

~o
_

 

News of the Uniwersaty

  

A chimney fire at the President’s home brought out the Lexington Fire Department, and it also brought out the usual corps of student

advisers to the Fire Depariment.

Mysterious student vandals who once painted their symbols in relatively

inaccessible places aren’t so energetic anymore. This year they defaced Lee

Chapel, shown at left as campus workers begin the difficult task of removing

the handiwork. Six students were caught in the act of painting the steps

to another building on the same night, but they were let off with a scolding
by the Student Control Committee.

 

 

 

 

 

Chemist Dr. 8. YOUNG TyREE, JR. of the Universtiy of North Carolina de-

livered the Phi Beta Kappa address this year. Above, DR. ‘TYREE, center, 1S

congratulated by DEAN WILLIAM W. Pusey, UI, while Dr, EsMARCH GIL-

REATH, PBK chapter president, looks on. Below, PROF. ROBERT STEWART con-

ducts the Washington and Lee Glee Club and Hollins Choir at Natural
Bridge’s Easter sunrise service.

 

SPRING 1965 33

News of the University

Scott Foundation

Award Established

m A SPECIAL AWARD recognizing stu-
dent leadership in the School of
Commerce and Administration has
been established at Washington and
Lee by the Scott Paper Company
Foundation of Philadelphia, Pa.

Washington and Lee’s participa-
tion in the Scott Paper Company
Foundation program was an-
nounced jointly by A. J. Schroder,
end, chairman of the Foundation’s
board of trustees and by President
Cole.

The Award will be known as
“The Scott Paper Company Foun-
dation Award for Leadership at
Washington and Lee University.”
Similar awards are made by the
foundation at 27 other colleges
and universities across the coun-
try.

A Washington and Lee student
for each of the classes of 1967,
1968, and 1969 will be chosen dur-
ing his sophomore year in the
School of Commerce and Adminis-
tration for participation in the pro-
gram during his junior and senior
academic sessions.

Recipients chosen by a_ special
faculty-student committee in the
School of Commerce and Adminis-
tration will receive tuition grants
of up to $1,500 for each academic
year. An unrestricted grant of
$1,000 will be given by the founda-
tion to the university during each
year the program is in effect.

‘There is a provision for exten-
sion of the program beyond 1968-
6g if mutually agreeable to the
foundation and the university.

Each Scott Paper Company Foun-

34

dation award at Washington and
Lee will go to an outstanding stu-
dent who has indicated his inten-
tion to pursue a career in industry
or commerce. ‘The foundation in-
structed the selection committee to
give “great weight to the charac-
teristics and abilities which should
best equip the individual to  suc-
ceed as a leader in industrial or
commercial activities.”

 

JOHN K. HOPpkKINS

John K. Hopkins, studying for a
bachelor of science degree in com-
merce, was chosen by the special
faculty-student committee to receive
the first award.

Hopkins, of Annapolis, Md., was
valedictorian of his class at Severn
School and has been on the dean’s
list consistently since enrolling at
Washington and Lee.

Professor Irwin

Died April 18th

m GEORGE JUNKIN IRWIN, retired as-
sociate professor of romance lan-
euages at Washington and Lee,
died April 18 in a local nursing
home. He was 68.

Prof. Irwin retired in 1962 after
serving on the university faculty
for 37 years. A native of Lexington,
he was graduated from Washing-
ton and Lee in 1920. He pursued
graduate study from 1921-25 at
Princeton University where he also
held a teaching fellowship. He also
studied at Columbia University’s
graduate division of romance lan-
guages.

He joined the Washington and
Lee faculty in 1925 as an assistant
professor and became an associate
professor in 1956.

Prof. Irwin was one of the origi-
nal 36 volunteers recruited from
Washington and Lee’s — student
body who formed Ambulance Unit
SSU 534, serving wth the French
Army during World War I, 1917-19.
For this he received the French
Croix de Guerre.

Prof. Irwin served as an officer
of the Lexington Presbyterian
Church for many years.

He was the son of the late Wil-
liam Pryer and Julia Rush Jun-
kin Irwin of Lexington. In 1935
he married Miss Mary Ruby John-
son of Statesville, N. C., now de-
ceased. ‘They had no children.

He is survived by a sister, Mrs.
Samuel B. Lapsley of Lexington.

University Chemistry
Student Is Honored

B A WASHINGTON AND LEE chemistry
major, George Ashley Allen, of
Chester, S. C., is one of 53 college
students cited for honorable men-
tion in the 1965 “Chemical and
Engineering News” Award of Merit
competition.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

News of the University

 

 

 

   

The 1965 Tucker Law Lecture was delivered by Dr. ArrHuR GoopHart, Roserr E. Ler, IV, ‘49, right, great-grandson of the

shown at left with DEAN CHaArLEs P. Licut. Dr. Goopuart, the only Ameri- Confederate commander, greets GEN. U.S. GRANT, HI,

can ever to be master of a college at Oxford, spoke on “Is Our Law Just?” — the Union commander’s grandson, in Centennial cere-
before a large Lee Chapel audience on May 1. monies at Appomattox on April 9.

~~

   

Final Troubadour production of the 1964-65 season was Eugene Two good friends of Washington and Lee sports were
O’Neil’s “Long Day’s Journey Into Night.” The lead role was played honored at the annual awards barbeque this spring.
by Dr. Ceci. Jones, left, Troubadour director, who will join the Special recognition went to EARL S$. MATTINGLY, ‘25,
Vanderbilt faculty next year. At right is Lewis Davis, Troub actor and JOHN SPAMBERG of Lexington. They are shown
of the year. with Athletic Director Cy ‘TWOMBLY.
Specially treated redwood from Oregon is stockpiled for use in May was a big month for JAMES DE YouNG, right. CHARLES H.
the new Delta Tau Delta fraternity house going up in the back- Percy, left, leading Illinois Republican and Dr YOUNG’s neigh-
ground. It will be ready for occupancy in September, the anni- bor in Kenilworth, Ill., spoke here at Jim’s invitation. Later in
versary of last year’s destructive fire. the month Jim was the recipient of the coveted Gilliam Award.

 

 

 

SPRING 1965 | 35

bee,
ra ea

 

Class Reunions

Anniversary reunions were held on the cam-
pus again this year for the 50th, goth, 25th, and
10th anniversary classes and, for the first time, a
fifth anniversary reunion was also conducted.

Members of the classes of 1915, 1925, 1940,

_.. May, 1965

Dr. RicHARD FowLkeEs presided for ’15, ROBERT
FULWILER for ’25, JACK AKIN for ‘40, and MILLs
Rocers for both ’55 and ’6o.

President Cole addressed a Saturday noon

luncheon for all classes, and ERNEST WOODWARD,

1955, and 1960 joined for a full program of ac- '40, presented a class memorial endowment check
tivities on May 7-9. to him for $3,425.
Highlights included the class banquets, where

oe ee Wee

 

 

Kea

 

L-r, Mrs. GILBERT MEEMS, CHARLES C. Curt, Mrs. SHEPHERD, L-r, Ropert S. HUTCHESON, G. WATSON JAMES, LrE SPAULDING, JOHN S.
and Howarp 'T, SHEPHERD, all part of the 1940 reunion. Broome, and Ropert A. DEMENTI, all of the Class of 1940, chat after
the luncheon.

At left, DEAN GILLIAM
greets Mr. and Mrs. Ros-
ERT CULLERS, °55, while
JouNn A. RUTHERFORD, ’55,
looks on. At right, Ep-
WARD L. JUNKIN, 715, and
James E. BEAR, 715, share
memories, and at far
right, Mr. and Mrs. GRAY
CASTLE, °55, laugh at the
latest Southern Collegian.

 

L-r, R. N. Larrure, 715; E, B. SHuiz, ’16; JERRY A. BuRKE, ’15; and JONAH L. Larrick, 15, L-r, S. MILLS ROGERS, JR.; '55, and WALLIAM
meet on the President’s porch. K. DUNKER, ’55, listen to BILL WASHBURN, ’40.

SPRING 1965 94

a

 

 

Gaston CHAvES, ’15, second from left, shows PresipeNnt Cote the “borrowed” trophy.

3

Cot. FRANK B. Hayne, ’15, and Pror. Rupert LATTURE,

15, look on.

Gaston Chaves, “15, Returns

Sign ‘Borrowed’ for 52 Years

A TROPHY taken in a wild night

of student high jinks at
Washington and Lee 52 years ago
has been returned to Lexington af-
ter a journey of over 12,000 miles.

The prize—a heavy, blue and
white metal sign which proclaims
“Money transferred by telegraph’’—
was removed from a local telegraph
office on Halloween night, 1912, by
Gaston Chaves, ’15, a special stu-
dent from Curityba, Brazil, who
came to Washington and Lee to
study electrical engineering.

Early in May, Chaves returned
to Lexington for the first time since
1913. ‘The occasion was the 50th
anniversary reunion of the class of
1915, the class in which Chaves en-
tered Washington and Lee, al-
though he returned to Brazil be-
fore completing his degree require-
ments.

For Chaves, now a highly suc-
cessful manufacturer of electrical
products in his native Curityba,
his reunion journey was a fulfill-
ment of the dreams of half a cen-
tury.

98

J

There was the business of the
sign—“It had been on my _ con-
science all these years,’’ he said.

“Ves,” added Col. Frank = B.
Hayne, ’15, of Flat Rock, N.C., a
retired Army officer and a classmate
of Chaves, “the police chased Gas-
ton when he got hold of that sign.”

The reunion of Chaves with
Hayne, Professor Rupert Latture of
Lexington, and other surviving
members of the Class of 1915 was a
happy moment. “You cannot im-
agine how happy I am to be here,”
Chaves said again and again.

It took quite a bit of doing for
Chaves to make the reunion. Al-
though he is a wealthy man, he
found it difficult to accumulate sul-
ficient American dollars for the
journey to the United States. Af-
ter much negotiation with his
Brazilian bankers, he finally ex-
changed 3,500,000 cruzeiros for his
airline tickets and the funds for his
expenses in North America.

At an exchange rate of 2,000 cru-
zeiros to one American dollar, the
trip cost him about $1,700, but

for Chaves it is money well spent.

“Money is only good when it
gives us pleasure, good pleasure,”
he told Washington and Lee’s Pres-
ident Fred C. Cole. “A man cannot
let his money enslave him,” he said.

Chaves’ two years at Washington
and Lee influenced him greatly, he
says, and he has hopes that his
young Jose Roberto
Chaves, can come to the University

grandson,

for his college education.

Another matter of conscience to
Chaves was the fact that interna-
tional economic policies made it
difficult for him to contribute to
the progress of Washington and
Lee. Thirty years ago he struck
upon the plan of collecting stamps
in preparation for the day he
would return to Lexington.

Last week he turned over to
President Cole four bulging plas-
tic bags containing thousands of
stamps. When they are catalogued
and offered for sale to collectors,
Chaves expects the stamps will
bring “several thousand dollars”
for the University’s use.

He laughed about the strange
look he got from the customs agent
when he entered the United States.
“He didn’t know what to make of
the bags of stamps or the telegraph
sign,” said Chaves. “I told him
what they were for and he let me
through.” Chaves said he had to
pay five dollars extra baggage fee
for the heavy metal sign.

He, Colonel Hayne and Profes-
sor Latture recounted the events
of that hectic night when Chaves
acquired the sign.

“We called it ‘freshman night’
and it was supposed to have started
in General Lee’s time here,” ex-
plained Latture, a retired protes-
sor of political science at Washing-
ton and Lee. “We all went out on
the town that night.”

Hayne recalled how one group of
students painted the class’s num-
erals on “Virginia Creeper,” the

weekly C & O railway train that
backed into Lexington from Glas-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

gow and was the town’s main trans-
portation link in those days.

“The school had to make it
good,” said Latture. “They used
money from the athletic fund to
pay for the repainting job, and
when it came time to hire a base-
ball coach, there wasn’t any money
leit?

Chaves’ coup with the sign was
apparently spectacular. “I can see
Gaston running now,” laughed
Hayne. “He was a good runner,
too, for he and I came in second
and third in the freshman cross-
country run.”

Chaves turned the sign over to
Hayne, and the two agreed that it
should become a “last man” trophy
for the Class of 1915.

Chaves, who returned to Brazil
on May 25, hopes this visit to
Washington and Lee won't be his
last. On this trip he also visited
Washington, New York, and Ni-
agara Falls.

The Niagara Falls excursion was
business, not pleasure. Chaves lives
near the majestic Iguassu Falls in
southern Brazil, and he has vis-
ions of tapping the hydroelectric
potential of these giant cataracts. At
Niagara, he examined American
techniques and equipment that
harness hydroelectric power.

There is also the possibility of
other future business trips to the
United States. His company in Cu-
rityba has developed a smokeless
electrical home incinerator that he
hopes may find a market in this
country.

The 6,000 mile flight from Curi-
tyba today is a matter of hours, but
Chaves recalled how his first jour-
ney north took 27 days by steam-
er.

When he flew south at the end of
his visit, Chaves carried no class
trophy this time. Instead, he said,
he’d carry an overload of happy
memories.

“I have renewed many good
friendships,’ he said. “This has
made me so very happy.’

SPRING 1965

CLass NOTES

1902

WittiAM T. Exiis received his medical
degree from the University of Pennsyl-
vania in 1906. President Woodrow Wil-
son appointed him as a member of the
Draft Board in 1917. During the First
World War Dr. Ellis served as captain in
the Medical Corps. He was Chief Surgeon
of Stetson Hospital for fifty years and
surgeon for the Department of Public
Safety for thirty-five years. He now lives
in Philadelphia.

1904

Spry at age 84, Grorcr E. Haw is still
active in the Richmond law firm of Sat-
terfield, Haw, Anderson, Parkerson &
Beagley. There are two other Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni in the firm: GEORGE
E. Haw, Jr., 48, and WILLIAM F. PARK-
ERSON, JR., 44. The elder Haw still plays
golf and goes duck hunting.

1905

Dr. AuBREY A. Houser, Sr., continues to
be most active as president of Wm. P.
Poythress & Co. He will be 84 years old
in September, 1965. Under his guidance
the business continues to enlarge and

prosper.
1906

A tribute was paid Chief Justice JOHN
W. Eccteston of Norfolk on March 1,
1965. The occasion in court marked the
Justice’s goth anniversary as a member of
the court. Only four other members have
served as long, none of them in this cen-
tury. In thirty years Justice EGGLESTON
has been absent only two days from the
sessions of the court. In the resolution
and scroll presented him by hs colleagues
he was praised for his “dedicated and
distinguished service” to the court.

The Montgomery (Ala.) Advertiser of
January gist carried a feature article con-

cerning Dr. ‘T. BRANNON HUBBARD, SR., an
elder statesman of Alabama medicine. In
1962 Dr. HuppaArp went to Moscow as a
member of the American Cancer Society's
delegation to the International Cancer
Congress, He is a past president of the
Alabama Medical Association and of the
state chapter of the American College of
Surgeons, and he has been honored num-
erous times by his fellow Alabama doc-
tors. Although he is in semi-retirement,
he has a limited practice and takes an
active interest in the progress of cancer
research. The newspaper article deals
with Dr. Hupparn’s great gifts as a surg-
eon, his interesting personality, and_ his
favorite anecdotes.

1908

Hrram M. Dow attended the 11th Na-
tional Conference of Civilian Aides to
the Secretary of the Army at Fort Bliss,
Texas, in March. Mr. Dow, who is the
Civilian Aide for New Mexico, was brief-
ed by key Army officials on recent devel-
opments within the Army and plans for
the future.

In 1959 Ropert S. KEEBLER retired after
twenty-five years in the legal service of
the U.S. government, primarily as trial
attorney in the public utilities division
of the Securities and Exchange ‘Commis-
sion. He and his wife, Pattie Paxton
(sister of “GALA” PAXTON, ’17) live in
Chevy Chase, Maryland.

1909

CHRISTOPHER T. CHENERY, who has been
associated with the Southern Natural Gas
Company since 1930 and its board chair-
man and chief executive officer since 1936,
will become chairman emeritus of the
board of the pipeline company in May.
He will relinquish administrative respon-
sibilities but will continue to guide the
company’s policies and financial affairs.
Mr. CHENERY was formerly president of
Federal Water Service Corporation and

ag

 

™ MORE HONORS have come_ to
Harry K. “Cy” Young, ’17, the
greatest athlete in Washington and
Lee’s history.

On April 19, Cy was made a
member of the West Virginia Sports
Hall of Fame at the Victory Awards
Dinner sponsored by the West Vir-
ginia Sportswriters Association. He
was one of six outstanding sports
figures—either West Virginia na-
tives or men who won distinction
as coaches or players at West Vir-
ginia schools—who were honored at
the dinner as new Hall of Fame
members.

William ‘T. Brotherton, Jr., 47,
made the presentation of Cy before
the awards dinner held at Charles-
ton’s Civic Center.

A plaque, donated by Charleston
Chapter of the Alumni Association,
has been placed in the Civic Cen-
ter as a permanent testimonial to
the athletic achievements recorded
by Cy as a player and coach at
Washington and Lee.

Brotherton’s presentation speech
declared:

“Harry K. ‘Cy’ Young, born
Charleston, West Virginia, March
8, 1893, earned 16 letters in foot-
ball, basketball, baseball, and track
at Washington and Lee University,
1913-1917, captain in each sport
and a standout performer.

“Held record for 100-yard dash
(9.8) and g220-yard dash (21.9).
Head football coach William &
Mary (1917), head baseball coach
and freshman football, basketball
(1928-20).

“Freshman football, basketball
and baseball coach Washington and
Lee, 1930-32, associate head coach
of football Washington and Lee,
1930-1936, team winning Southern
Conference football title 1934.
Head basketball coach Washington
and Lee, 1933-1939, winning South-
ern Conference titles in 1934 and

West Virginia
Sportswriters
Elect W& L's
‘Cy’ Young to
Hall of Fame

 

1937 and runner-up titles in 1935
and 1936.

“Elected National Football Hall
of Fame (1958) and named on
Helms All-American Basketball
‘Team (1917).

‘These are the records which visi-
tors to the Charleston Civic Cen-
ter will read on the plaque honor-
ing Cy Young. But there are other
records and feats which will not
show on the plaque but which are
written in the memories of the un-
dergraduates of Washington and

Lee University. In addition to the
athletic positions held by Cy Young
at his Alma Mater, he was for
twenty-nine years secretary of alum-
ni. There was not during the period
in which he held the athletic and
alumni secretary positions any un-
dergraduate that passed down the
Colonnade in Lexington, Virginia,
who did not know Cy Young and
there was not any student that Cy
Young did not know by his first
name. Never was his office door
closed and never was he without
the time to talk with a student
about a need or problem when the
burdens of undergraduate life be-
came too heavy. Memory also brings
to mind a picture of Cy on a plat-
form at a football pep rally, and
especially at a football pep rally
when Washington and Lee was to
play its arch rival nestled in the
foothills of Blue Ridge at Char-
lottesville—with his right hand
doubled into a fist striking the
palm of his left, entreating the team
and the student body to “‘beat those
damn Wahoos!” For those alumni
who knew Cy Young, he is remem-
bered in the same light in which
one remembers Washington and
Lee. He is truly a friend of his fel-
low man and no greater tribute
can be paid any man.

“West Virginia glories in your
feats and your national recogni-
tion and we also give thanks to you
for helping to disprove the image—
an image created by television and
news media that a West Virginian
is a barefoot, unemployed, unfed
man standing on a broken porch
with his hand _ outstretched to
Washington.

“The alumni of Washington and
Lee University salute the sports-
writers of West Virginia for the
election of you, Cy Young, to the
West Virginia Sports Hall of
Fame.”

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

board chairman of Southern Production
Company, Inc. He is chairman of the
board of ‘The Oflshore Company of Hous-
ton, ‘Texas, and a director of Air Reduc-
tion Company, Inc. Mr. CHENERY is a
member of the University Board of
‘Trustees.

1911

JAmMes B. Noett plans to sail on the
Queen Elizabeth on April 7th for Eng-
land. He will spend the time until June
30, 1965, traveling and studying there and
in France, returning on the Queen Mary.

1912

After serving for forty-three years in the
Presbyterian Church in Iran, WILLIAM
McE. MILLER is enjoying a busy retire-
ment. He is speaking in churches in vari-
ous parts of the country and was recently
in Parkersburg, West Virginia.

In 1952 Howarp A. Doss retired from
Southern Pacific Railroad Company after
40 years of service. He and his wife live
in Los Angeles, California, now and are
both still very active.

1913

In Baltimore on March 25th, which was
“Maryland Day,’ EDWARD S. DELAPLAINE
and Mayor ‘Theodore R. McKeldin ex-
changed their newest books. After the
ceremony Judge DELAPLAINE was the
guest of the Mayor at a dinner given by
the Baltimore Kiwanis Club. One of the
guests of honor at the dinner was JOHN
B. Funk, ’26, chairman of the State Roads
Committee.

Having retired from teaching and coach-
ing several years ago, Guy M. WaArpD is
living in Brooksville, Florida, with his
daughter and her family. On April 1st
he celebrated his seventy-seventh birth-
day.

WiLtIAM A. HYMAN continues to have a
very active role in community services
in New York City. In November, 1964,
Bill received the 1964 Humanitarian
Award from ‘The Children’s Free Dental
and Eye Clinics. The award was made
at a black tie banquet at the Hotel
Astor.

1915

After thirty-three years as teacher, prin-
cipal, and superintendent of schools in
Kentucky, J. M. F. Hays retired in 1948.
He became owner of the Elizabethtown
(Ky.) Gas Company and its co-manager.
In 1951 Hays established an insurance
and realty firm which is in active busi-
ness today. During the past five years
he and his wife have done _ extensive
traveling. Mr. Hays has been president
of Elizabethtown Rotary Club, on the
Chamber of Commerce Board, the Eliza-
bethtown Community College Foundation
Board, and the Realty Board.

SPRING 1965

 

CHRISTOPHER ‘I. CHENERY, ’09

WILLIAM A. KeLEHER of Albuquerque,
New Mexico, is author of a book, “‘Max-
well Land Grant”, published by Argosy-
Antiquarian, Ltd. A copy of this book
was sent to us to be placed in McCormick
Library. It is another in a series of sig-
nificant accounts of local history written
by this alumnus.

MAbISON Cor, the energetic class agent,
still plays tennis regularly and in_ his
words “‘still covers pretty good ground.”
MADISON is with the Federal Reserve
Board in Washington, D.C,

1916

Since retirement ten years ago, A. L.
BENNETT has visited all but six states
and twenty foreign countries. He spends
his summers in Virginia and his winters
in St. Petersburg, Florida.

For many years Rospert B. MCDOUGLE, the
senior member of the law firm of Mc-
Dougle, Davis, Stealy & Morris in Park-
ersburg, has been prominent in West Vir-
ginia legal and civic circles. He is a past
president of the West Virginia Bar Asso-
ciation and of the West Virginia Chamber
of Commerce. At one time he was chair-
man of the West Virginia Republican
Committee and Department Commander
of the American Legion of West Virginia.
Mr. McDOouGLE is at present a member
of the West Virginia Judicial Council
and a trustee of Parkersburg Presbytery.

1917

Ropert R. KANE established a_ residency
in Nokomis, Florida, in 1963 and is en-
joying all the pleasures of a retirement
in Florida.

1918

JAmes L. Howe, Jr., has recently retired

after twenty-eight years with Arthur H.
‘Thomas Company. He and his wife are
celebrating the event with an extensive
trip to the Far East and Europe. They
will visit their daughter in Lisbon, who
is with the New York Times there.

As of January 31, 1964 ADOLPH S. MARX
retired as president of ‘The Muller Co.,
Ltd., Department Store. He became
Chairman of the Board and maintains an
office in the store.

1919

Professor CHARLES H. ‘TAyLor will retire
from Harvard University faculty in June
as the Henry Charles Lea Professor of
Medieval History Emeritus. He is an
authority on the origin and development
of representative institutions in France in
the 13th and 14th centuries. Professor
TAYLOR was military historian during
World War II.

1920

PINKNEY Grissom has been with the same
law firm of Thompson, Knight, Wright
and Simmons in Dallas, ‘Texas, since April,
1921. He writes that there is now no
member of the firm who was there when
he first started as a young lawyer. In
1921 there were six lawyers and now
there are 42. The firm has grown in pro-
portion to the Dallas community. Pink-
ney’s professional work has been almost
entirely in the trial field. He and _ his
wife have three grown sons and _ ten
grandchildren.

For the past thirty-five years SHIRLEY
JAMeEs Rossins has been living in Dobbs
Ferry, New York. He is a practicing at-
torney specializing in the probate and
real property fiield.

1921

At retirement age Dean C. C. GORDON
Moss gave up the deanship at Longwood
College, Farmville, Virginia, but he has
remained as a professor of history, teach-
ing full time.

1922

After retirement as rector of Grace
Church in Colorado Springs, Colorado,
the Reverend J. LINDSAY PATTON’ was
made an Honorary Canon of Grace Ca-
thedral in San Francisco.

Witrrep B. Wess is teaching and is head
of the English Department at Staunton
Military Academy. His son, Fred, will
eraduate from Washington and Lee in
June, 1965, and plans to enter Union
Theological Seminary.

1923

After thirty-nine years with the Travel-
ers Insurance Company, the last eighteen
as Regional Director in New Yok City,
Douc.as S. Perry has elected early retire-
ment, as of February, 1965.

41

 

 

 

Prof. Taylor, ’r19
Retiring After 40
Years As A Member
Of Harvard's Faculty

@ DR. CHARLES HOLT TAYLOR, who
received his A.B. and A.M. degrees
from Washington and Lee Univer-
sity in 1919 and 1920, retired in
June at Harvard University where
he has been a member of the faculty
lor forty years.

He held the position of Henry
Charles Lea Professor of Mediaeval
History and served as Master of
Kirkland House.

Kirkland House is one of eight
upperclass residences of Harvard
College. As Master, Professor ‘Vay-
lor guided the educational, social,
and athletic programs of Kirkland’s
360 residents.

A native of Bedford, Va., Pro-
fessor ‘Taylor attended the public
schools of Maplewood, N. J., and
received his bachelor and first mas-
ter’s degrees at Washington and
Lee. After two years on Washington
and Lee’s faculty, he undertook
graduate study at Harvard, and re-

ceived the A.M. there in 1922 and
the Ph.D. degree in 1927. He has

 

Kirkland House

 

taught mediaeval history at Harv-
ard since 1925.

Professor ‘Taylor has been asso-
ciated with the Harvard Houses
since they were established in 1930.
He was one of the first tutors of
Lowell House and was on the staff
of Adams House from 1932 until
1955, When he became Master of
Kirkland House.

Professor ‘Taylor is an authority
on the origin and development
of representative institutions in
France between 1250 and 1350, and
has published a series of studies on
the subject in Speculum. He is the
with J. R. Strayer, of
Studies on Early French Taxation,

author,

published in 1939. As a military his-
torian during World War II, he
was editor of American Forces in
Action, and served as Deputy Chiet
of the Army Historical Service.
He is a member of Phi Beta Kap-
pa and a Fellow of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1923

Recently elected for his third term,
AucustTIN C. (Gus) BRYAN is serving on
the Board of ‘Trustees of the Presbyterian
koundation, Inc. (USA). He joins anoth-
er W&L alumnus, PHILLIP HOWERTON, ’25.

FRANK B. Hurr continues as head of the
department of political science at West-
ern Maryland College. In addition he
often lectures at the University of Mary-
land. <A little over a year ago Frank
made a world tour as a member of a
seminar under the auspices of the Amer-
ican Political Science Association. As a
volunteer tennis coach at Western Mary-
land he was recently honored by mem-
bership in the Sports ‘Trail Century Club
for 248 victories over the last thirty years.

Presently the chairman of the Board of
Globe Storage Company in Baton Rouge,
Louisiana, JUNIUS W. C, WRIGHT, JR., has
been an officer in many tranportation as-
sociations, He is a past president of the
Louisiana Motor ‘Transport Association
and the National Furniture Warehouse-
man’s Association. In addition he is form-
er president of the Chamber of Commerce
and the Kiwanis Club in Baton Rouge.
Junius and his wife have two daughters
and seven grandchildren.

1924

CHARLES A. TUrwiLAR of Welch, West Vir-
ginia, has been appointed a member of
the Board of Examiners by the State
Supreme Court. He has been a member
of the McDowell County Bar and is a
past president of the West Virginia Bar
Association.

MAyor FRANK C. SWITZER, tempered to
city government during the late 1930’s,
rose as a member of the city planning
board to become mayor. Since his elec-
tion in 1956, he has become known as
one of Virginia’s top small-city mayors.
Recently the local newspaper Valley Week
ran a feature story of “Harrisonburg’s
Mayor Switzer.”

PAuL Bock lives in Fort Myeis Beach,
Florida, since his retirement last August.
Between golfing and fishing, he still does
some consulting work for Warner Com-
pany of Philadelphia, a lime and lime-
stone producer.

In September, 1964, GEORGE S. SPRAGINS
retired as Vice-President and Manager of
West Arcadia (California) Branch of the
Bank of America. He had served thirty-
seven years.

E, ELMER AMEs, Jr., has formed a law
partnership with his son, Epwarp A.
AMEs, III, 61-Academic and *64-Law. ‘The
firm is engaged in the general practice
of law in Onancock, Virginia. Mr. AMES,
Jr., is a member of the Virginia Senate
where he has served since 1956.

Last year JOHN G. GUERRANT was elected
chairman of the board as well as_presi-
dent of the Virginia Paper Company in
Richmond.

SPRING 1965

1925

After retiring from a teaching and coach-
ing career, M. R. BRUIN, JR., is living on
a 315-acre farm in Pulaski County, Vir-
ginia. He is raising beef cattle. Among
his many activities he is a member of
the Lions Club, the Ruritan Club, and
the Pulaski County Fair Association. A
master Mason for forty-two years, BRUIN
is also vice-president of the Farm Bureau.

EpwARD HuGHES LUDINGTON expects to
retire from Continental Can Company in
a few years. He is very active in “Y”
work and civic activities in Mt. Vernon,
New York.

After thirty-eight years in service in the
Overseas Division of the First National
City Bank of New York, FRANK ‘T. MITcH-
ELL retired as senior vice-president. He
and his wife now live in Naples, Florida.

1926

CHARLES H. HAMILTON, managing editor
of the Richmond (Va.) News-Leader, and
Muriel Butler, also of Richmond, were
married in Arizona on November 21, 1964.

Dr. JOHN R. VAN BurREN is a “family doc-
tor” in Benicia, California. He is also a
trustee of the local school and of the
local Congregational Church. He and
Mrs. Van Buren expect to take a tour of
the British Isles in June.

Last year EarL L. VALENTINE was appoint-
ed Judge of the Municipal Court in Lex-
ington, Virginia.

Jack G. CHAPMAN is Director of Admis-
sions at Woodberry Forest School as well
as Director of its Summer School,

1927

For the past fifteen years ROBERT ‘TAYLOR
has been chief editorial writer of ‘The
Pittsburgh Press. Previously he served as
correspondent and political writer.

1928

Since 1925 CHARLES H. Linprors has been
a practicing CPA in Fort Lauderdale,
Florida. For the past twelve years he has
been mayor of Lazy Lake, Florida.

1929

ALFRED Boypb, JR., has completed his 25th
year with Sears, Roebuck and Company
and is now located in Atlanta where he
has been for the last sixteen years.

1930

L. PALMER Brown, president of the L. P.
Brown Company in Memphis, ‘Tennessee,
is president of the Board of Trustees of
the Methodist Hospital. The hospital has
made a nine million dollar addition re-
cently. In addition to his leadership in

many civic and welfare organizations, Mr.
BROWN is a director of Dobbs House, Inc.,
and the Wade Fund, Inc.

HuGH Lynn Cayce has received the 1964
Virginia Beach (Va.) First Citizen Award.
Mr. Cayce is director of the Association
for Research and Enlightenment and a
lecturer and author on_ parapsychology
and psychic research. ‘This recent honor
is for his work in the church and with
youth groups, as well as his psychic re-
search activities which have brought na-
tional publicity to Virginia Beach. For
many years Mr. Cayce has been active in
scouting and church work and has been
prominent as a counselor on family prob-
lems. His recent book, Venture Inward,
now in its fifth printing by Harper &
Row, is a quest for spiritual and psycho-
logical insight based on psychic discov-
eries.

Dr. SraNLEY F. HAMPTON continues pri-
vate practice as an allergist in St.
Louis, Missouri. He is also a part-time
assistant professor of clinical medicine
and director of the Allergy Clinic in the
Washington University School of Medi-
cine. Last October, Dk. HAMPTON was in-
vited to address the International Asso-
ciation of Allergy in Madrid, Spain, and
later talked in Tel-Aviv before the First
Israel Convention of Allergology and ap-
plied Immunology.

Ipus DERRELL FELDER, JR., is serving as
President of the Georgia branch of the
American Personnel and Guidance Asso-
ciation.

The president of Jesse Jones Sausage
Company in Raleigh, N.C., is Ear T.
Jones who is a man of many hobbies and
interests. Earl and his brother own the
Raleigh Cardinals (baseball), a farm club
of the St. Louis Cardinals. He is a mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of YMCA,
the Chamber of Commerce, and the Am-
erican Meat Institute and is vice-presi-
dent of the Raleigh Sales and Market-
ing Executives,

Dr. MurreL H. KAPLAN practices internal
medicine in New Orleans, Louisiana. His
specialty is gastroenterology, and he is the
third vice-president of the American Col-
lege of Gastroenterology. He and his wife
have three children.

Dr. JoHN P. Lyncn is the chairman of
the department of medicine at McGuire
Clinic and St. Luke’s Hospital in Rich-
mond, Virginia. He is also vice-president
of McGuire Clinic Partnership and _ is
serving a second term as chairman of the
Aging and Chronic Disease Committee of
the Medical Society of Virginia.

SHuUFOoRD R. NICHOLS is president of the
Southern Compress Company in Des Arc,
Arkansas.

1931

Continuing his impressive civic work,
JouNn M. SremMmons, Dallas industrial dis-
trict developer, has been named the man
to lead the multimillion dollar Dallas

AS

County United Fund drive. StEmMMoNs is
president of Industrial Properties Corpor-
ation. He is a director of the Dallas
Chamber of Commerce. STEMMONS is also
a past president of the Greater Dallas
Council of Churches and a director of
the Episcopal Foundation of the Diocese
of Dallas.

WALTER A. HUNTSBERRY, is retired Army
brigadier-general, is presently a law stu-
dent at the University of North Carolina.

The College of Dentistry of Ohio State
University has been awarded a_ $70,000
contract by the Army Medical Research
and Development Command of the Sur-
geon General's Office. Dr. DUNCAN Mc-
CONNELL, a physical chemist, is the prin-
cipal investigator for the project, which
fills a need for research leading to basic
information connected with treatment
and care of combat casualties involving
the face and jaw.

1932

ArTHUR B. SCHAREFF is head of the French
department in a new university in Day-
ton, Ohio. The name of the university,
a part of Miami University and the Ohio
State University, is being considered by
the state legislature. Art was formerly
at the University of Virginia.

The California Division Commander of
the Sons of Confederate Veterans is Dr.
FRANK H. CUNNINGHAM. DR. CUNNINGHAM
continues to be an active speaker in the
Santa Monica and Los Angeles areas. He
is on the Board of Directors for the So-
ciety of Pan American Culture and pre-
sided at the Society’s Award Dinner in
November, 1964.

Robert W. REINHOLD retired from Gov-
ernment service last year after his return
from Brazil. He is now remodeling an old
farm house. He expects to resume his
management consulting work.

Since 1947, CHARLES F. RICHARDSON has
been working at Texas A&M University
in the Biology Department.

WALTER W. HUNZICKER, JR., is partner of
a wholesale electrical supply firm in Okla-
home City, Oklahoma. He and his wife
have four children and eight grandchil-
dren.

For the past five years FRANK H. BRADY
has been research engineer at Interna-
tional Smelting and Refining Company in
Perth Amboy, New Jersey.

1933

Epwin H. Bacon, vice-president of Marsh
and McLennan, Inc., in St. Louis, Mis-
souri has been elected to the Board of
Directors of Bethesda General Hospital.
Bethesda General is a non-profit organi-
zation. It operates the Bethesda Dilworth
Home for Aged Ladies; a maternity home
for unwed mothers; a residence for busi-
ness and student women, in addition to
the general hospital.

44

 

ALLEN MCRAE HARRELSON, ’35

President of Wachovia Bank and ‘Trust
Company of Winston-Salem, JOHN F.
WATLINGTON, JR., has been elected a di-
rector of The American ‘Thread Comp-
any. Mr. WATLINGTON has played an ac-
tive role in the banking industry and
civic affairs of the southeast where most
of American Thread’s manufacturing
units are located. He is currently a direc-
tor of Piedmont Aviation, Inc., Colonial
Stores, Inc., Piedmont Natural Gas Co.,
Hanes Mills Corp., the Bank of Reeds-
ville, and the ‘Thomasonville Furniture
Industries. WATLINGTON is a past  presi-
dent of the Chamber of Commerce of
Winston-Salem and Charlotte and_ has
been active in several other programs
benefiting the southeastern region.

 

CHARLES C. SMITH, ’35

1934

WILLLIAM R. (Bill) ScHILDKNECHT since Au-
gust, 1964, has been vice-president and
comptroller of M. J. Grove Lime Comp-
any in Frederick, Maryland. ‘The comp-
any is a division of the Flinkote Comp-
any.

EVERETY “TUCKER, JR., has been assigned
by the State Department for a mission to
Peru to give the land and industrial de-
velopers of that country assistance and
advice on industrial site development
techniques. He will return around the
middle of May.

Recently assigned to Area Development
work, Georce L. REYNOLDs has completed
twenty-five years with Public Service
Electric and Gas Company in Camden,
New Jersey. He has also been named
president of the New Jersey Tennis As-
sociation for the third year.

As associate librarian for reference and
circulation at Harvard College Library,
Tosrer M. PALMER is devoting an increas-
ing amount of time in learning about
computers and studying problems of li-
brary automation.

1935

ALAN F. BLAsteR is general manager of
the Marquette Bolt and Rivet Company
in Chicago.

NORMAN FITZHUGH is a CPA in the Char-
leston, W. Va., firm of Fitzhugh, Erwin,
McKee & Hickman. He is a partner in
the firm.

ALLEN MCRAE HARRELSON has been elect-
ed vice president of ‘The Bendix Corpor-
ation in charge of acquisitions. Previous-
ly HArreLsoN was chief financial officer
with the Crane Co. Allen is a member
of the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants, the Financial Execu-
tive Institute, and the American Manage-
ment Association. He and his wife have
6 children and the family lives in New
Canaan, Connecticut.

The fifty-third president of the Rotary
Club of Jacksonville, Florida, is CHARLES
C. SmirH. He was elected at their an-
nual meeting on Feb. 15, 1965. Charles
holds the classification of Real Estate,
Commercial and Industrial Property, by
virtue of his position as chairman of the
real estate firm of Backman, Ulmer, and
Mitchell, Inc. A prominent man in Civic
affairs, Charlie is a member of the Cham-
ber of Commerce and its committee of
1000. He is past president of the ‘Temu-
quana Country Club and the Children’s
Museum. Charlie and his wife, the form-
er Ruth Ulmer, have three children.

THomas W. MEHLER is in the building
and real estate busines in Waynesboro,
Virginia. He and his wife have four
children.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Dr. Harry M. Philpott Is Announced

As Auburn University’s Next President

@ DR. HARRY M. PHILPOTT, a gradu-
ate of Washington and Lee’s class
of 1938, will become president of
Auburn University, Auburn, Ala-
bama, in September.

Auburn’s trustees’ choice of a
new president was announced on
May 10 by Governor George Wal-
lace. Dr. Philpott will succeed Dr.
Ralph Draughon who retires this
year after seventeen years as Au-
burn’s president.

Dr. Philpott, who was the convo-
cation speaker at Washington and
Lee’s general alumni reunion last
June, moves to Auburn from the
University of Florida where he has
been first vice president since 1957
and where he has established a
sound reputation as an educator
and academic administrator.

Auburn’s new president is a na-
tive of Bassett, Virginia, who grew
up in Lexington, N. C., where his
family is in the furniture business.
After graduating cum laude from
Washington and Lee, he remained
at the University for two years as
director of religious activities.

He attended Yale University in
1941-43 and was ordained a Baptist
minister before embarking on a
three-year period of military serv-
ice as a Navy chaplain with the
Third and Fifth Fleets. In 1947 he
received his Ph.D. degree from
Yale where his major field of study
was religion and higher education
with extensive work in philosophy
and psychology.

He was assistant professor of re-
ligion at Florida until 1952 when

he went to Stephens College as dean
of religious life and head of the
department of philosophy and _ re-
ligion.

Returning to Florida in 1957, Dr.
Philpott became second in com-
mand to the University’s President
Dr. J. Wayne Reitz. Dr. Philpott
was impressive there in his ability

 

Dr. HArry M. PHILPOTT, ’38

to deal with all manner of academic
problems, especially in his dealings
with Florida legislators.

In a series of interviews with
newsmen following his announce-
ment as Auburn’s president, Dr.
Philpott indicated that two factors
were most instrumental in his de-
cision to accept the new position
and new challenge: the sweep-
ing educational program recently

adopted by the Alabama _ legisla-
ture which will provide Auburn
with $24,000,000 in general appro-
priation funds over the next two
years and $11,900,000 more in state
bond money for construction; and
the assurance of cooperation from
the trustees and faculty.

“There is great efficiency in giv-
ing an individual freedom to do a
job,” Dr. Philpott told one inter-
viewer. In the same interview, he
described his negotiations with
Governor Wallace that led to the
decision on Auburn’s presidency.

“We felt we could work together
in those areas where—well, we felt
we could work together. I have
every reason to believe we can do
this. It doesn’t mean we'll see eye
to eye on all matters. Lord knows,
I've fussed with the governors of
Florida. But Governor Wallace has
made tremendous educational ad-
vances in Alabama. As I see it, this
provides the opportunity that is at
Auburn.”

Dr. Philpott’s wife, Pauline, also
was interviewed and she told how
she was looking forward to the
move to Auburn and how she
thought she'd be able to give a good
strong “War Eagle” when next foot-
ball season rolls around. She was
pleased that the president’s home
at Auburn would provide plenty of
room for the Philpott children.

The Philpott’s oldest son, Mel-
vin, is a sophomore at Yale where
he is a tenor soloist with the Yale
Glee Club. At home are Jean, 16;
Cabell, 13; and Virginia, 10.

 

SPRING 1965

45

 

T, 1964, to start a 1
Metro-Atlantic, Inc.
t, directing the

 

ship SS. Hope at Guayaquil, Ecuador, for
three months in 1964. He expects similar
duty this year at Conakry, Republic of
Guinea, West Africa.

Since 1959 Epcar M. Boyp has been a
partner of Baker, Watts & Company, a
New York stock exchange firm in Balti-
more,

Grorce McKay has been associated with
several small business ventures over the
years including automobile sales, tire
and gasoline distribution. He is present-
ly vice-president of the Security National
Bank of Battle Creek, Michigan. Mani-
festing outstanding business capability,
George is also vice-president and _treas-
urer of the Food City Packing Company
and is a director of a specialty food pro-
ducer, Worthington Foods, Inc. He is
married to the former Helen Louise Lee.

Holding the rank of Commander, Curis-
TOPHER C, BARNEKOV is currently the Exe-
cutive Officer, Naval Air Reserve Intelli-
gence Unit 661. This unit won the Air
Reserve trophy in 1964 as the most out-
standing unit of its kind.

The old, established, family-owned spec-
ialty clothing stores have been disappear-
ing from the American retailing scene.
Greentree’s, a Richmond store, marked
its 7oth anniversary in March. It is in its
third generation of family ownership and
is one of the oldest family owned spec-
ialty clothing stores in the country. Louts
C. GREENTREE and his brother Irving are
vice-president and president respectively
of the firm. The store has won what has
been called the “Oscar” of the retailing
field and was named Retailer of the Year
by the Brand Names Foundation.

1943

The first Marine jet fighter planes to
reach South Viet Nam were under the
command of Lt. Col. WimttiAmM C. Mc-
GRraAw, JR. He joined the Marine Air Arm
in World War II; flew 83 missions in
Korea and was awarded the Distinguished
Flying Cross. In 1962 McGraw _ piloted
jet fighters in climbing tests which re-
sulted in five new records. He is married
to the former Barbara Martin of Webster
Groves, Missouri. The couple and _ their
two children live in Santa Ana, Califor-
nia.

J. Tyter Bowte is vice-president of G.
Calvert Bowie, Inc., a mortgage banking
concern. He is also vice-president of Mary-
land State Golf Association and was his
club’s champion for ten times. Tyler is
married to the former Dorothy Warner,
Randolph-Macon ’42, and the couple have
three children.

Since 1963 JoHN W. MCGEHEE, JR., has
been Manager - Greensboro Operations,
Vick Manufacturing Division, Richardson-
Merrell, Inc. He makes his home in
Greensboro, North Carolina.

SPRING 1965

Joseru F, Extis, editor and publisher of
the Clarksdale (Miss.) Press Register, was
elected a director of the Southern News-
paper Publishers Association for a three-
year term at the annual SNPA convention
at Boca Raton, Florida, in November.

1944

WILLIAM B. BRYAN became Executive D1-
rector of the Kentucky Association for
Retarded Children last September, 1964.
He also operates a Blue Grass farm in
Bourbon County, Kentucky. He is mar-
ried to the former Barbara Jean Henry
and they have four children.

Ropsins L. Gates has resigned as academic
dean at Fairfax Hall in Waynesboro, Vir-
ginia. In September he will become as-
sistant professor of political science at
Mary Baldwin College in Staunton. The
family will continue to live in Waynes-
boro.

Ropert H. Moore, JR. an investment
specialist with a law degree, has been
made vice-president of the world’s first
inland oceanarium, ‘The Aquarium of N1-
agara Falls. ‘This oceanic adventureland,
which opens in June of this year, will
feature sea life of all kinds, particularly
the beautiful coral and game fishes of
North America. Mr. Moore has exten-
sive financial interests. He is chairman of
the board of Clairmor Corporation, an
investment company in his home town
of Bluefield, West Virginia, and is on the
board of the Pocahontas Mining Corpora-
tion. The Moores have two children and
make their home in Cleveland Heights,
Ohio.

In November, 1964, EpMUND P, LAWRENCE
was named vice-president of the Stewart
Dry Goods Company of Louisville, Ken-
tucky.

1945

S. ALLAN MCALLISTER is a patent chemist
with the photo products department of
Du Pont. He and his wife have three
sons.

1946

Named to the newly-created post of dis-
tribution manager in the manufacturing
department of Virginia Chemical Com-
pany is Ray H. Dovett. He will develop
ways to streamline the movement of prod-
ucts and raw materials in and out of V-C
fertilizer plants. Virginia Chemical Com-
pany is a division of Socony Mobil Oil
Company. Dovell has been associated four-
teen years in both oil and chemical opera-
tions.

In addition to his law practice and_ his
position as municipal judge in Danville,
Virginia, T. RYLAND DopsoNn is also teach-
ing business law in the University of Vir-
ginia Extension Division in Danvville.

JAMES PENDLETON CARPENTER, JR., has been
selected as one of more than 150 business
and governmental executives from the
United States, Canada and abroad to par-
ticipate in the 47th session of the Ad-
vanced Management Program of the Har-
vard University Graduate School of Busi-
ness Administration. The 12-week course
is designed especially for executives who
hold top management positions. Mr. Car-
penter is Director of Manufacturing Ser-
vices, Mead Containers Division, ‘The
Mead Corporation, in Cincinnati, Ohio,
where the Carpenters make their home.

1947

Dr. WitiAM H. Pirer has been re-
appointed for the fifth year a visiting in-
structor in otolaryngology at the Univer-
sity of Virginia. He and his wife have
three sons.

LEE SILVERSTEIN is the author of “De-
fense of the Poor in Criminal Cases in
American State Courts” to be published in
June by the American Bar Foundation.

1948

Francis A, Davis, JR., has been appointed
by the mayor of Baltimore to the Balti-
more City Hospital Commission.

President Johnson appointed Frep M.
Vinson as Assistant Attorney General in
charge of the Criminal Division in March.
Fred practices law in Washington, D. C.,
with the firm of Reasoner, Davis and
Vinson. He and his wife have two chil-
dren.

Gorpon A. Fox is Director of Financial
Planning for Lone Star Cement Corpora-
tion with offices in New York City.

Mayor Jostan P. Rowe, III, has been
named the “Outstanding Young Man”
of Fredericksburg, Virginia, for the year
1964. Joe, who is co-publisher and gene-
ral manager of the Free Lance-Star, was
presented the award at an annual ban-
quet. The award goes annually to the
young man in the community adjudged
to have made an outstanding contribution
during the past year. Joe’s election to the
mayoralty last June highlighted a varied
record of public service and also contin-
ued a tradition, since Joe is the fourth
generation of his family to serve in this
office. He also has served on the City
School Board, on the Governor’s Commit-
tee for Youth, and the Fredericksburg
Area Mental Hygiene Clinic Board.

MARSHALL S. ELLIS expects to receive his
Master’s Degree from the University of
Tennessee at the end of March, 1965.

In Bryan, Texas, Davin B. CoFER, JR.,
is beginning his second term as Criminal
District Attorney for Brazos County. His
classmate, HowARD FENDER, is head of the
division on the staff of the State Attorney
General.

.

-_

oe

==

 

ington Evening Star. He and his wife
have two daughters and one son.

Probably the most important man on
Oregon’s Governor Dan Evans’ staff is
RAYMOND W. Haman of Seattle. Haman
stands closest to the Governor during the
days of law-making. He reviews every
piece of legislature and protects the Gov-
ernor from signing into law bills which
may be unconstitutional. ‘The Governor
is, of course, the ultimate authority, but
it is Haman to whom he turns for legal
advice.

Ernest H. CLarkeE is a member of the
Board for a new co-educational private
school run by St. Francis in the Fields,
Episcopal Church in Harrods Creek, Ken-
tucky.

EcHoits A. HANSBARGER is practicing clin-
ical pathology at the Lynchburg (Va.)
General Hospital. He and his wife have
three children all under seven years of
age.

J. ‘TimotnHy MAckey is presently serving
as Ilag Pilot to Rear Admiral R. E. M.
Ward, Commander Naval Reserve Train-
ing, Omaha, Nebraska. He is married to
the former Penny Colonnello of Pescara,
Italy, and the couple have two children.

THE REVEREND BRYON WAITEs is pastor of
Reynolds Memorial Methodist in Bristol,
Virginia. He is president of the Bristol
Ministerial Association and is secretary of
the Hospital Chaplain’s Association.
Byron is married to the former Beverly
Cate and the couple has three children.

1953

BORN: Mr. AND Mrs. FRANK A. MCCorM-
ick, a son, Frank A., III, on December
12, 1964. The family lives in Santa Ana,
California.

BORN: Mr. AND Mrs. WILLIAM HORTON
COLEMAN, a son, Thomas, born October
26, 1964.

Witus F. Brown received his M.B.A. in
engineering management from ‘Texas
Christian University in January, 1965.

In April JoserpH W. ScHER took a position
as copywriter with Batten, Barton, Durs-
tin & Osborn, an advertising firm in New
York City.

FRANK A. McCormick has qualified as
a charter member of the Presidents Coun-
cil of The Guardian Life Insurance Co.
of America. He is a three-time qualifier
for the Million Dollar Round Table. He
and his family live in Santa Ana, Cali-
fornia.

Hayes C. McCLeRKIN of Texarkana, Ar-
kansas, is a member of the law firm of
Smith, Sanderson, Stroud & McClerkin.
He is serving his third term as State Rep-
resentative from Miller County. He and
his wife announced the arrival of their sec-
ond daughter on September 29, 1964.

SPRING 1965

After four years with the National Labor
Relations Board, J. EpwArD WISE resigned
in March, 1965, and entered private law
practice with the Memphis firm of Arm-
strong, McCadden, Allen, Braden & Good.
man.

Jay W. Jackson has been re-elected for
another term to the town council of West
Hartford, Connecticut. He is a_ partner
in the law firm of Manson, Egan, Egan
and Jackson.

Dr. T. KyLe Crrson, JR., is practicing in-
ternal medicine and hemotology in Mem-
phis, Tennessee. He and his wife have
two sons.

On March 1, 1965, GRAY C. CASTLE join-
ed Socony Mobil Oil Company, Inc., as
counsel to Mobil Chemical Company. He
and his wife, Linda, have two children.

GORDON RIESNER is vice-president of the
First National Planning Corporation, con-
sultants in corporate planning, mergers,
and acquisitions.

DANIEL E. PopovicH was awarded the
Master of Science degree by Pennsyl-
vania State University in March, 1965.

ALDEN M. Pirarp, with Boeing Aircraft,
has been transferred from Seattle to Cape
Kennedy in Florida.

Dr. JoHN I. BOWMAN, Jr., is living at
Virginia Beach and is in the private prac-
tice of oral surgery.

Kermit E, HuNnpLEY has been elected a
senior vice-president of the Houston Bank
& Trust Company. Kermit joined the
bank in 1956 and has headed the trust
department since 1958. He came to the
bank from the Charleston (West Va.)
National Bank, where he had served for
three years in the trust department. He
is a member of the American Bar Asso-
ciation and of a number of professional
fiduciary and financial associations and
has been on the visiting faculty of the
Southwestern Graduate School of Bank-
ing at Southern Methodist University.

1954

J. Roserr Cross was transferred from
Baltimore to Richmond last August by
the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone
Company. His new assignment is the
position of District Accounting Manager.

The assistant to the Sixth District Con-
eressman, Richard H. Poff, RoBerr E.
BRADFORD has been elected chairman of
the Steering Committee of the Bull Ele-
phants, an organization of assistants to
Republican Congressmen and_ Senators.
Bradford became Poff’s assistant in 1957
following several years in radio and tele-
vision news broadcasting in Virginia and
in Washington, D.C.

Evans DuNN, Jr., has been added to the
downtown staff of the Exchange Security
Bank of Birmingham, Alabama. Evans is
in the Business Development Department

of the bank, where he will sell and dis-
cuss the bank’s many services. He _ has
had four years and a half of experience in
this work with the market research and
sales department of the Vulcan Materials
Company in Birmingham.

DoucLtas M. VAN RIPER is president of
Douglas Van Riper, Inc., a Realtor and
Insuror, with two offices serving Man-
hasset and Brookville, Long Island. He
is past-president of the Manhasset Cham-
ber of Commerce and the Real Estate
Board. Doug is now president of the
Nassau North Shore Chapter of the Long
Island Realty Board. Doug is an active
Boy Scout Master. He is married and has
two children,

Roy T. MAtTrHews will be in Europe this
summer doing research. In September,
1965, he will become an instructor at
Michigan State University in the Depart-
ment of Humanities.

James D. BoNEBRAKE has been elected
vice-president of the Cleveland Life Un-
derwriters Association and is again quali-
fied for the Million Dollar Roundtable
of 1965. He is also president of the West-
ern Reserve Academy’s Alumni Associa-
tion.

The president of the Babcock Lumber
Company in Pittsburgh is GORDON FISHER,
III. He was appointed in March, 1965,
to President of the Pittsburgh Wholesale
Lumber Dealers Association.

1955

MARRIED: E. N. Stwons and Wanda
Morris were married last August, 1964.
Nick is a staff counselor and coordinator
in the ‘Testing and Counseling Service of
the University of Missouri. He is work-
ing towards his Ph.D. in counseling psy-
chology.

BORN: Mr. AND Mrs. DuDLEY B. ‘THOMAS,
a son, Thomas L., III, on December 22,
1964. ‘Thomas joins a brother and the
family in Alexandria, Virginia.

BIRTH: Dr. AND Mrs. Marvin P. MEApD-
ors, JR., a son, Edward Paul, in Septem-
ber, 1964. Marvin is practicing general
medicine and surgery in Cleveland, Miss-
issippi. He and Mrs. Meadors now have
five children, four sons and a daughter.

BORN: Mr. AND Mrs, WILEY W. Spurc-
EON, JR., a son, Wiley Whitney, IJ, on
November 1, 1964. The father is execu-
tive news editor of the Wichita Eagle in
Wichita, Kansas.

This July Watson A. Bowes, Jr., will
complete his residency in obstetrics and
gynecology at the University of Colorado.
He plans to enter private practice in
Denver. He and his wife have two chil-
dren.

Transferred from California, Davip M.
BERLINGHOF is director of Wheat and Oat
Merchandising for Cargill, Inc., in Chi-
cago. He will be one of Cargill’s repre-
sentatives on the Chicago Board of ‘Trade,

49

        
    

 

| - versity. of Californi
cal ‘Center in ‘July.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

Freperick has become ;

: ‘Emory | ‘University in “Atlanta, ‘Georgia,
announces the promotion: of WILLIAM O.
SHROPSHIRE from an assistant: professor of
business administration to associate pro- |

fessor | in panes same school. - |

 

1958

MARRIED: Car. EDWARD B. “HeMpstean, |
Jr. and Karin Wieditz were married on
December 23, 1964, in Tacoma, Washing: ;
‘ton. Ed and Karin have just spent a ia
cation: in Bavaria with | Karin’ s. parents.

 

7 BORN: Mr. | AND “Ms. ANDREW Ww “Me- |

. Ls _ son, | ndrew W., Il, on Feb-

: ruary” 26, 1965. Uncas is: ‘associated with
the law firm of Booth, Dudley, Koontz,

- Biakeep and Stump ine Alexandria,
_ Virginia. oo ;

| BIRTH: Mr. "AND. Mrs. Joun S. _ COLEMAN, |
a daughter, Jennifer Gier, on September
20, 1964. John and his wife, Jacquelyn,
have two other daughters, and the family
| ater, “ee very near

 

 

: Manager” for “Consolidated i
ics, Corporation, a subse a
tL | : 7 ft lives in Bdge

 
  
  

 
  
      

  
 

fe Irvine is in, “his "second year oe
yo and is a yas assistant =

  
  

 

 

‘ Mn, ‘is teaching Tings -

       
 

 

and e. He repre Tnsuane 0
penville, * South ge me

  
 
  
 

 

 

 

is responsible for sales | and do c ealer de-
_Yelopment.— oe a

    

— genera practice of. aw “with. ie
of | hh and * rylor 3 in| Wilmin

  
 
 

      

. SS en 1 BD A. “Moore. is = employed by Gay.
; [ARR U. Ly, Jr “will ‘finish a ok Estate Compan
resider oy in anesthesiology | at the © Uni.

       

“THE ALUMNI “MAGAZINE 7

 

     

 

Reveley Allen (Hollins) of Raleigh, North
Carolina. The couple have a daughter
one year old.

In Kansas City, Missouri, GLEN” R.
FAHRENTHOLD has a new job with the
Lamp Division of General Electric. He
and his wife, Sally, have a daughter three
years old and a son nearly two years old.

THeopore G. Ric, JR., has just returned
from a visit to nine countries in Europe
as a buyer of men’s sportwear for Gimbles
of Philadelphia.

After release from the U.S. Navy with
the rank of full lieutenant, J. ROBERT
STONE is employed by Dancer-Fitzgerald-
Sample, Inc., in New York City. He is
producer of television commercials. He
writes he sees Whit Jack quite often.

Watson G. WATRING is finishing his first
year of residency in obstetrics and gyne-
cology at the Medical Center of Indiana
University. He and his wife, Sharon,
have a 2 1-2 year old daughter, Kristin,
The family live in Indianapolis, Indiana.

Prittie H. Werks, JR., has been appoint-
ed brokerage consultant at the Philadel-
phia office of the Connecticut General
Life Insurance Company. In his new posi-
tion ‘Tony will work directly with in-
surance agents in providing technical and
analytical services. He and his wife and
two daughters live in Warminster, Penn-
sylvania.

1959

In January, 1965, LAURENCE M. SMAIL be-
came an associate in the law firm of Hoyle
and Short of Newport News, Virginia,
engaged in the general practice of law.
From April, 1962, until January, 1965,
he was an officer in the U.S. Army as-
signed to the U.S. Army Transportation
Center at Fort Eustis, Virginia, as Legal
Officer. He was promoted to Captain and
received the Army Commendation Medal
for Meritorious Service. On November 30,
1964, he married the former Katherine
C. Brown of South Dartmouth, Massachu-
setts, and they reside in Newport News,
Virginia.

JouN H. Esprrtan received his master’s
degree in English from Boston College
and is now teaching at St. John’s Prepara-
tory School in San Juan, Puerto Rico. He
is also the baseball coach.

WILLIAM H. PIxToNn received his master’s
degree in English literature from George
Washington University in September,
1964. He is currently working toward his
Ph. D. at the University of North Caro-
lina.

JOHN G. KOEDEL, JR., is assistant secretary
for the Commercial Loan Dpartment  f
the Pittsburgh (Pa.) National Bank. He
and the former Fay Birren were married
in December, 1963.

This year JOHN P. FREEMAN has been an

SPRING 1965

 

LAURENCE M. SMAIL, 59

instructor in chemistry at Washington
and Lee.

Murray M. WaApbswortH is back in ‘Lalla-
hassee, Florida, where he is employed as
Assistant United States Attorney.

Tom L. Larimore has been named presi-
dent of the Fort Worth-Varrant County
Junior Bar Association. He has been
social chairman of this organization on
two previous occasions and was its past
vice-president.

1960

MARRIED: RicHard S. WoLr and Miss
Thelma Cohn were married on June 28,
1963. Richard is employed in the actuar-
ial department of the Life Insurance
Company of Georgia in Atlanta.

JAcK GRONER is employed by the Blue
Cross Insurance Company as a sales rep-
resentative and legal consultant. He = is
assigned the New Orleans area. As a
part-time job, Jack is helping the New
Orleans recreational department as a foot-
ball and basketball coach. He and _ his
wife have two daughters.

While doing graduate work in history at
Vanderbilt, Roperr L. ELpeR is a general
assignment reporter for the Nashville
Tennesseean. His wife, Betty, is in charge
of the publicity for WDCN-TV, Nash-
ville’s Educational TV station. ‘The cou-
ple have two sons.

RICHARD ABERSON is working in the trust
department of the First National City
Bank in New York. He recently passed
the New York bar exam and is a mem-
ber of the New York Bar.

DoucLas E. BARNARD and his wife, Donna,
both expect to graduate in June from
Boston University School of Medicine.
Doug will begin internship at Chelsea

Naval Hospital while Donna will do her
internship at Massachusetts Memorial.
The couple have a three year old daugh-
ter who seems to have adjusted quite well
to the trials of having both parents in
medicine.

J Davis Reep, III, is in his second year
at Law School at the University of Vir-
ginia,

PHILLIP) BRUNNER RoBERTSOX& is on the
staff of the University of Miami and hopes
to have his Ph.D. in marine science soon.

Howarp C. WOLF, JR., was released from
acitve duty as a lieutenant (j.g.) in the
U.S. Navy Supply Corps in December,
1963. He is employed by McCormick &
Company of Baltimore in its cost ac-
counting division.

1961

MARRIED: Puitie W. Conaway and Ma-
ralyn G. Bigony were married on June
27, 1964, in Delaware, Ohio. Serving as
best man was CLINT ANDERSON, ‘61. Phil
is a computer programmer in a_ retail
merchandising firm in Columbus, Ohio,
where the new couple live.

MARRIED: Cuarces S. Wassum, III, and
Ann-Stina Eriksson were married in the
summer of 1964 in Falkenberg, Sweden.
Charlie expects to graduate from the Uni-
versity of Virginia Medical School in
June, 1965, and will stay in Charlottes-
ville for internship in pediatrics.

BORN: Mr. AND Mrs. SAMUEL C. STRITE,
Jr. a son, Samuel C., HI, on March 3,
1965. ‘Tag’ graduated from Columbia
Graduate School of Business with an M.
B.A. degree in finance in 1963. He and his
family are now living in Poughkeepsie,
New York, where he is a financial planner
for IBM. Tag also serves as treasurer and
office manager of the IBM Poughkeepsie
Employees Federal Credit Union.

BORN: Mr. AND Mrs. Ropertr J. FUNK-
HOUSER, JR., a daughter, Barbara Ann, on
January 4, 1965. Bobby has left his
teacher-coach position in Richmond and
is now working as sales and service engi-
neer for Victor Products Corporation in
Hagerstown, Maryland.

BORN: Mr. AND Mrs. PERRY L. GORDON,
a son, Charles Perry, on December 20, 1964.
Perry is a commercial supervisor with
the Rochester ‘Telephone Company, Ro-
chester, New York.

Courtney R. MaAuzy is now’ Northern
Virginia Sales Representative for Johnson
& Wimsatt Company, a lumber and build-
ing materials firm. ‘The Mauzys live in
Falls Church, Virginia.

In his fourth year of medical school at
the University of Chicago, Mitrorp F.
SCHWARTZ, JR., was elected to the honor-
ary medical scholastic fraternity, Alpha
Omega Alpha. He will intern at Bob
Roberts Hospital in Chicago, beginning

July 1, 1965.

5l

 

 

 

Virginia.

| worked. on the

 

 

 

reporter and. then on the Atlanta | Times.
In February he accepted a new position
/ with e* Atlanta Georgia, Bureau ¢ of the

 

Medical ‘Center ins 1 january, ‘hohe. G. Ty, .
DuNLor Ecker is now assistant adminis-

of.

trator in charge of house staff and medi-

  

cal student affairs at Montefiore Hospital
- ine New York City. ee |

Completing his” second year aboard | ‘the

_ Moore | (DD- 7447), Ly.

 

1 .W, Rutvepce is scheduled —

officer in June. The
ty ins the Western

 

 

TI re are cht schools in x

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE |

 

a

countered Rick UHLIG, °63, who was
aboard the destroyer USS Porterfield,
which was a protective ship for Chip’s
task group.

Lrestie H. Pearp, III, is a credit analyst
for the United California Bank in San
Francisco.

Receiving his M.S. degree in physics in
June, 1964, EpwArD A. BROWN is now
working on his Ph.D. at New York Uni-
versity. He is employed as research as-
sistant at the Radiation and Soil State
Laboratory at New York University.

Having completed two years of active
duty with the U.S. Army, HArry G. BAL-
LANCE, JR., iS now associated with Delta
Air Lines as a pilot. He is making his
home in Atlanta.

1963

MARRIED: After receiving his master’s
degree in business administration at the
University of North Carolina in June,
1964, HENRY H. KNIGHT was married to
Miss Fran Culbertson of Lima, Peru.
Until February, 1965, he worked for
AT&T in Washington, D.C. He then en-
tered the Army and is now a_ second
lieutenant in the Artillery at Ft. Sill,
Oklahoma.

MARRIED: Louts A. ROosENstTock, III,
and Hedy Bernard of Oradell, New Jer-
sey were married on September 5, 1964.
The couple live in Richmond, Virginia,
where Louis is attending the T. C. Wil-
liams School of Law and where Mrs.
Rosenstock is presently employed by the
State Department of Welfare and _ Insti-
tutions.

MARRIED: Lt. JoHN G. S. WicciIns and
Miss Judith A. Castellani of Framingham,
Massachusetts, were married on Decem-
ber 20, 1964. This April John graduates
from Navigator’s School at James Con-
nally AFB and will be assigned to a
Strategie Air Gommand Base.

MARRIED: AutstTIN COLEMAN Bray, JR,
and Sherrill Ann Farr were married on
November 28, 1964, in Hanover, New
Hampshire. The couple lives in New
York City where Austin is attending Co-
lumbia University Law School.

MARRIED: James L. SToTT, JR., and Miss
Evelyn Snyder of Sewickley, Pennsylvania,

were married March 7, 1965. Jim is an —

Ensign in the Navy Reserve. The bride is
an alumna of Sweet Briar. The couple
will reside in Charleston, South Carolina.

BORN: Mr. AND Mrs. MEADE CHRISTIAN,
Jr., a son, Jon Britain, on August 28,
1964. Meade is a second-year medical stu-
dent at Western Reserve University School
of Medicine in Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: Mr. AND Mrs. HERBERT G. JAHN-
CKE, JR., a daughter, Lauren Kristiana,
on February 19, 1965. ‘The Jahnckes live
in New Orleans.

SPRING 1965

After six months of training at OCS in
Newport, Rhode Island, GrorcEe E. Miss-
BACH, JR., is assigned to the USS Wright
(CC-2) in Norfolk, Virginia.

GEORGE W. HARVEY, JR., is presently em-
ployed at Young & Rubicam Advertising
Company in New York City. He is in the
media department.

A first heutenant in the Marines, STEPHEN
H. STULL is now serving with the Ninth
Expeditionary Brigade at Da Nang, Re-
public of Vietnam. The brigade is com-
posed of units based on Okinawa.

Lr. (j.g.) J. W. Ivey is attached to the
Naval Communications Center, Sangley
Point, in the Philippines. His primary
billet is Communications Watch Officer.
Jim was married in December, 1963. He
expects to be rotated from his present
duty in January, 1966.

PauL McBripe is working as an under-
writer in New York City with Chubb &
Son, Inc.

CHARLES L. Cook graduated from Navy
OCS in Newport, Rhode Island, and for
the past nine months has been aboard the
aircraft carrier Hornet.

After serving with the U.S. Coast Guard
Reserves, CHARLES C. HArtT is working
with Chubb & Son in New York City.

After finishing the Officers Rotary Wing
Aviators’ Course at Fort Rucker, Alabama,
Ropert L. WHEELOCK, III, is assigned to
the Army Support Command in Viet
Nam, effective September, 1965.

Immediately following graduation An-
DREW A. SMITH, JR., worked for nearly a
year for the Wilmington Trust Company
before being assigned to Fort Knox, Ken-
tucky. In June, 1964, he was married to
the former Sallie Crosby. Andy is in
charge of a company of trainees.

As a first lieutenant, EUGENE A. LEONARD
was in Alaska in January and February,
1965, training Eskimo Scouts in guerrilla
warfare techniques. His unit also partici-
pated in exercise Polar Strike, their an-
nual Arctic maneuver. Gene is now back
at Ft. Bragg with the Sixth Special Forces
Group (Airborne) as an intelligence offi-
cer.

PETER BARBER expects to graduate from
the University of Alabama this June, 1965.
He has finished his active Army duty. His
plans are indefinite at the moment.

KEN C. Kowa tski will complete his active
reserve obligation with the Marine Corps
and expects his discharge in September,
1965. He is now attending the graduate
school of education at George Washington
University and is employed part-time in
the office of Congressman Elford Ceder-
berg of Michigan.

HERBERT M. (Mickey) WALKER is Heuten-
ant (j.g.) aboard the Navy U.S.S. Alde-

baran (AFIO) as CIC officer and assistant
navigator. ‘The ship has Norfolk, Vir-
ginia, as home port. Mickey and his wife,
Carole, live in Norfolk.

1964

MARRIED: In a ceremony in Memphis,
Tennessee, Frep C. SCHAEFFER and _ Jose-
phine Hastings Phillips were married on
August 29, 1964. Among groomsmen were
RoBERT E. PAYNE, 63, E. STEPHEN WALSH,
64, Brice R. GAmMBER, ’64, JoHN Mc-
DANIEL, °64, JOHN E, MICHAELSON, ’64,
SAM WESLEY PIPEs, 64, FRED M. RIDOLPHI,
‘64, JorL W. Brown, 65, and JAMeEs R.
BOARDMAN, ‘65. The couple is living in
Memphis where Fred is in the insurance
business.

After completing the Army Armor School
at Fort Knox, FRANK W. WRIGHT expects
to be assigned to the gnd Armored Di-
vision at Ft. Hood, Texas.

STEPHEN J. COLVIN is assistant manager
of the B. B. Colvin Reporting Company,
Inc., of Chicago, a convention and law
reporting firm.

BricE GAMBER is presently working for
Chubb & Sons, Inc., an insurance com-
pany in New York City. He expects to
enter the Army the latter part of June
with an ROTC commission.

FREDERICK J. KRALL is in Harvard Busi-
ness School. He expects to enter the Army
in June, 1966, in the Adjutant General's
Corps.

SECOND LT, Epwarp S. Crort, III, is sta-
tioned at Ft. Eustis, Virginia, in the Army
Transportation School where he is the
officer in charge of the school’s book store.
His wife, the former Susan Bronson, Sweet
Briar, 64, is teaching the ninth grade
English at York County High School.

W. B. OcILvig, JR., has been elected edi-
tor of the Industrial Management Review,
the official publication of the Sloan School
of Industrial Management at M.I.T.

On October 23, 1964, CHARLES F.,
UrqunHart, III, received a USNR commis-
sion as ensign after finishing OCS School
in Newport, Rhode Island. He is cur-
rently stationed aboard the USS Vogel-
gesang (DD86L), a destroyer with ‘home-
port in Norfolk, Virginia.

Finishing his basic officers training at the
Airborne School at Fort Benning, Geor-
gia, A. THOMAS OWEN is now at Army
Intelligence School in Baltimore, Mary-
land.

Joun Lackey is attending the University
of Kentucky Law School. His first article
for the Law Journal will be published in
the spring.

1965

J. H. “Jack” Dé JARNETTE is a Systems
Analyst for J. C. Wheat & Co., a Rich-
mond brokerage firm.

53

 

 

 

    
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  

emb or of | the Board member of the first. highway audit com-—
rf one Fourth: Su- mission and the Arkansas _ Centennial

ro Commission. ‘Several years ago the Arkan-

sas Bar Association presented Judge | Lem- ©
ley with a plaque. in recognition of his
_ services on | bench, and more recently
he was honored by the Oklahoma Civil
War Centennial Commission for his writ-
‘ings on Indians who participated: in the
War Between | the Slates | |
1 91 1

| Juvcr Joun | BRIOLA Brow’ of Elkins, |
West Virginia, died February 27, 1965.
He was former judge of the twentieth |
a judicial dist ict of West | ‘Virginia and >

had 194% and formed a part-—

 

 

   
 
      

| Tudge ‘Brown enjoyed good health and —
had worked the, day before his death.

 

a Harry RISSLER | PHILLIPS died on Febru- :
"ary 21, pre oo South Caro-—

lina. Pp . president cand —
ae are Inc. 6

  

- \ es 7

“De Ps ben MAN OH. Harr, widely known oe |
- ( 7 | writer. oe one ae ae 135

 

    
        

 

- Ssh president o TPE oe Alpha
- a wrote the pfciay 1 history of that fra:

    
   

ced Slaw ins Kansas City, 1 Mi fe -
many years as a rae in |

. jan s] M.S. TwyMan died February tb.
1965 in. Fincastle, Virginia. Mr. Twyman :
was a prominent farmer in the ¢ area.

1917

oe of Hope and its Weespresident t for HAM “Casey Honen, ‘former appeals —
SO fiifteen years. He was a former pres ident ex miner for the Unemry loyment Com--

~ of the Board of Trustees of Arkansas AKM pensation Board in V DC.
(now § Southern State. College). He was” a a : died March Ms A veteran of World

  

 

   

   

      

   

i a a ae THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

n ie Higginbotham. a

yell = Mr. Darnell a -

War I, he had been Assistant Attorney
General of Mississippi and also Assistant
U.S. District Attorney in Mississippi.

Dr. ‘THomAS R. HAMILTON died in Bryan,
‘Texas, on January 6, 1964. Dr. Hamilton
was a professor in the Department of
Business Administration at A.&M. College
of Texas. In the early 1g920’s he had
served as American Vice-Consul at Rouen,
France, and had also been in the U.S.
Department of Agriculture as an econ-
omist

1918

WILLIAM McCuE MARSHALL, former exe-
cutive vice-president in charge of the
Spokane and Eastern division of the Seat-
tle First National Bank, died on April 14,
1965. Although retired, he was at the
time of his death also a director of the
Pacific Power and Light Company and a
vice-president and northwest representa-
tive for A. C. Allyn and Company. Mr.
Marshall was at one time a director and
chairman of the board of the Davenport
Hotel and a director of Fox West Coast
Theaters.

Orto M. Stumer, a lawyer for many years
in Richmond, Virginia, and former presi-
dent of the Southside Brick Works, died
on December 7, 1964. Mr. Stumpf was a
devoted and beloved member of the Rich-
mond alumni chapter.

1919

ArtHur H, Henke, died March 19 1965.
He was a retired advertising manager for
a wholesale furniture distributor in Niles,
T1linois.

1920

Ropert WiLtiAM Lowi, a mining engi- |
neer in the coal business for many years,.

died December 10, 1964.

1921

Jor WrrcrteR Dincress was killed in an
automobile accident on February 9, 1965,
in Florida. Mr. Dingess made his home
in Huntington, West Virginia, and was a
partner in the law firm of Dingess and
Flynn. He was also a director of a lum-
ber company in Huntington and a_ past
president of the Cabell County Bar Asso-
ciation.

1923

GEORGE ‘TREAT HoLBrook died in Hart-
ford, Conneticut, on January 25, 1995.
Mr. Holbrook was the retired secretary
of the Aetna Insurance Company, where
he was in charge of all claims on fidelity
and surety bonds. He joined Aetna in
1928 as an assistant secretary and retired
in 1957. He had for many years been a
class agent for the annual fund.

1924

Mayo WITMoRE HAMILTON died January

SPRING 1965

25, 1965, at his home in ‘Tesuque, New
Mexico, near Santa Fe. He had a distin-
guished career in the practice of law in
Santa Fe.

RANDOLPH GORDON WHITTLE died on May
2, 1965, in Roanoke, Virginia. Mr. Whit-
tle was scheduled to retire from the of-
fice of Roanoke City Attorney on May
4th because of reaching compulsory re-
tirement age. He had served this office
since 1948. From 1930 to 1944 he was
judge of Roanoke’s Juvenile and Domestic
Relations Court and had been a member
of the Virginia State Bar Association, a
former chairman of the Sixth District
Congressional Committee, and a president
of the Roanoke Bar Association. At
Washington and Lee Mr. Whittle was
president of the Student Body for the
1923-24 year. As an alumnus, he was a
former member of the Alumni Board of
Trustees. :

WALTER GRANT Burton, widely known
Princeton, West Virginia, lawyer, died
November 23, 1964. Mr. Burton had
served as president of the Mercer County
Bar Association and was a member of the
West Virginia and American Bar Associa-
tions. The West Virginia ‘Trial Lawyers
Association, of which he was a member,
made a very fine tribute to Mr. Burton
in their publication The Advocate.

1925

Francis Guy Fux, Jr. died in Little
Rock, Arkansas, on February 16, 1965.
Mr. Fulk had been active in the practice
of law in Little Rock until the time of
his death.

1926

Epwarp ALLEN Dopp died in Louisville,
Kentucky, on April 23, 1965. Mr. Dodd
was in the general practice of law and the
senior partner in the firm of Dodd & Dodd
in Louisville. At one time he was a mem-
ber of the Board of Bar Commissioners,
a delegate to the House of Delegates of
the American Bar Association, and presi-
dent of the Louisville and Kentucky State
Bars. A number of foundations and busi-
ness firms included Mr. Dodd as a direc-
tor or trustee: The Bank of Louisville,
Schaefer Varnish Company, ‘Todd-Doni-
evan Company, Southern Veneer Company,
General Shoe Lace Company, and_ the
Levitch Foundation, Inc.

1927

WALTER SMITH STONE of Stoneville North
Carolina, died on December 29, 1964.

1928

PATRICK H&rNRY GARVIN died March 4,
1965, in Albuquerque, New Mexico. He
attended public schools in Huntington,
West Virginia, before coming to Washing-
ton and Lee. At the time of his death he
was employed by the State Government
of New Mexico.

1930

‘THE REVEREND ‘THEODORE M. SWANN, form-
er superintendent of the Staunton Dis-
trict of the Methodist Church, died April
18, 1965. Dr. Swann held pastorates in
Norfolk, Lynchburg, Winchester, Clifton
Forge, Lexington, Clarendon, Delray, Lu-
ray and Annandale in Virginia and others
in West Virginia.

1931

GRAHAM FREEMAN GILLOCK died at his
home in Springfield, Virginia, on March
28, 1965. Mr. Gillock had been an audi-
tor in the General Accounting Office of
the U.S, Government.

1932

THEODORE ‘TRAYLOR ‘THOMAS of Pearis-
burg, Virginia, died on November 24,
1964.

1935

CraiG HAMILTON Berry, a Dallas drug-
gist, died January 22, 1965. He had a
distinguished record in the Navy during
WW II, particularly aboard the destroyer,
USS Claxton DD 571.

1940

Henry E. McLAucuHuin died of a heart
attack on March 2, 1965, in Pensacola,
Florida. After attending graduate school
at M.I.T. and a distinguished career in
the Navy during World War II, Henry
returned to his home in Pensacola where
he became associated with Heyden New-
port Chemical Corporation, a division of
Newport Industries. At his death he was
supervisor of research. Among his many
civic and professional activities, Henry
was a member of the City Council of
Pensacola, of the Board of Directors of
the Warrington Bank, and was a trustee
of the Pensacola Art Center. He is sur-
vived by his wife, a son, and three daugh-
ters.

Horacr W. BITTENBENDER, a widely known
attorney in St. Petersburg, Florida, died
March 12, 1965. He was admitted to the
Florida bar in 1941 and immediately
thereafter entered the U.S. Army. He
served with distinction, particularly in
the Security and Intelligence branch.
Horace was one of 300 men assigned to
preserve the security of the first United
Nations meeting in San Francisco. He
was past president and a life member of
the Elks Lodge, Committee of 100, and
the National Counter Intelligence Corps.
He was a past president of the Sons of
American Revolution Chapter. He _ is
buried in the Arlington National Ceme-

tery.
1955

FRANKLIN RicHARD Gippon died April 5,
1965, apparently of a heart attack. He
was an account executive with Rasponi
Associates of New York City, a public re-
lations and management advertising firm.

55

| he deak "dinner | a ‘business: eae. on March | _
ys cessful with — Th fo ollowing officers were e elected: -

 

 

ni Howse the ap.
vy and the .

 

    

Alumni attending the recent
meeting of the Piedmont
Chapter enjoyed a buffet din-
ner. Mr. and Mrs. DAVE
MoNTGOMERY, ‘63, at left,
chat with HuGH BONINO, ’36,
while Mrs. WALTER HANNAH,
’50, left, and Mrs. BONINO
serve themselves.

status of the alumni fund. A ques-
tion and answer period followed
Dean Gilliam’s talk.

CHICAGO

= DEAN AND Mrs. Frank Gilliam
were honored guests at an Alumni
meeting on April 8 in Chicago
where a reception and banquet was
held at the University Club.
Chapter president, William H.
Hiller, ’38, presided and expressed
appreciation to Gordon Sibley, 44
and Dick Blond, ’60 for the splen-

Among the alumni couples
who attended the April meet-
ing of the Chicago Chapter
were, l-r, ROBERT C. DYER,
°94, Mrs. Dyer, Mrs. Cocu-
RAN, Mrs. BAKER, WILLIAM C.
BAKER, JR., ’38, and HAROLD
W. COcHRAN, ’37.

did arrangements. Introducing
Dean Gilliam as “the man among
men” was William C. (Bill) Baker,
38. Dean Gilliam’s address pre-
sented the forward developments
at Washington and Lee.

Bill Washburn reported on alum-
ni affairs and showed colored slides
of the campus. The outstanding
event was adjourned with the sing-
ing of “College Friendships”.

LOUISVILLE

® A LUNCHEON meeting held April

 

19 constituted a business session
for the Louisville Chapter. Over
twenty-five members attended this
meeting and elected the following
officers: Mark B. Davis, Jr., ‘56,
President; Rayman R. Lovelace,
61, Vice President; and Charles B.
Castner, Jr., 52, Treasurer.

Plans were discussed for a Chap-
ter meeting in the early part of
June which would include present
students now at Washington and
Lee and those new freshmen who
plan to attend in September.

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ommemorative Plates
(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes
Price, $27.00 per set, f.o.b., Lexington, Virginia

Available in Blue color only

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

