THE FALL, 1964

ASHINGTON
AND fe

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Discussion Topic:

A Lee College?

 

 

 

 

     

 

Class Agents for 1964-65

1887-1914—-Alumni Office

1915-A—Madison P. Coe, 1735 New Hampshire Ave., N.W.,
Washington, D. C., 20009

1915-L—Wilbur C. Hall, P.O. Box 390, Leesburg, Virginia

1916-A—Battle Bagley, Sr., P. O. Box 1006, Fayetteville, Ten-
nessee

1916-L—George D. Shore, Box 1057, Sumter, South Carolina

1917-A—Frank J. Gilliam, Box 703, Lexington, Virginia

1917-L—J. Seybert Hansel, Monterey, Virginia

1918 —Edmund D. Campbell, 822 Southern Building, Wash-
ington 5, D.C.
1919 —Clifford M. Peale, Horizon House, Island F states,

Clearwater, Florida

1920-A—Edward G. Bailey, 27 Malvern Avenue, Apt. 4, Rich-
mond, Virginia, 23221

1920-L—-Fred D. Townsend, 713 Barringer Building, Colum-
bia, South Carolina, 29202

1921-A—H. Gray Funkhouser, 2 Folsom Street, Exeter, New
Hampshire, 03833

1921-L—Fred C. Parks, Box 135, Abingdon, Virginia

1922-A—-Dewey A. Reynolds, 65 Sunset Drive, Buena Vista,
Tarpon Springs, Florida

1922-L—George W. Taliaferro, Box 463, Harrisonburg, Vir-
ginia

1923-A—Thomas M. Wade, Jr., 3309 Oriole Drive, Louisville
13, Kentucky

1923-L—John J. Hudak, 137 Chestnut Street, Garfield, New
Jersey, 07026

1924-A—Stuart A. MacCorkle, 3719 Gilbert, Austin, Texas

1924-L—Matthew P. Matheney, 314 E. Elm Street, El Dora-
do, Arkansas

1925-A—Frank P. Fischer, P.O. Box 4153, New Orleans,
Louisiana, 70118

1925-L—Clarence E. Hinkle, Box 2002, Roswell, New Mexi-
co, 88201

1926-A—T. T. Moore, Box 2421, Roanoke, Virginia

1926-L—W. Randolph Cosby, 2910 North Boulevard, Rich-
mond, Virginia, 23230

1927-A—Alex S. Moffett, P.O. Box 72, Taylorsville, North
Carolina, 28681

1927-L—L. Storey Stemmons, Tower Fast, 2700 Stemmons
Freeway, Dallas, Texas, 75207

1928-A—Ernest S. Clarke, Box 575, Lexington, Ky., 40507

1928-L—Oldham Clarke, Kentucky Home Life Building, Lou-
isville, Kentucky, 40202

1929-A—Robert B. Lee, c/o Bankers Trust Co., 16 Wall St.,
New York, New York

1929-L—Carl W. Hamilton, P. O. Box 6, Wise, Virginia

1930-A—Joe C. Broadus, The Chase Manhattan Bank, New
York, New York

1930-L—B. L. Rawlins, 71 Broadway, New York, New York,
10006

1931-A—William P. Ballard, P. O. Box 1111, Norfolk 1, Vir-
ginia

1931-L—Horace Gooch, 14 Hygeia Street Worcester 8, Mass.

1932-A—Harold J. Sullivan, 800 N.W. 40th Street, Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma, 73118

1932-L—Lloyd H. Richmond, 1440 Sheridan Road, Wilmette,
Illinois

1933-A—T. Kerr Laird, M.D., P. O. Box 270, Montgomery,
West Virginia

1933-L—George Joseph, 226 W. Court Street, Flint, Mich.

1934-A—John H. Thomas, 820 Virginia Street, Charleston,
West Virginia, 25301

1934-L—Thornton G. Berry, Jr., State Capitol Building,
Charleston, West Virginia
1935-A—Lewis W. Martin, 110 Cowardin Avenue, Rich-

mond, Virginia

1935-L—Thomas C. Smith, P.O. Box 1693 Tulsa, Oklahoma

1936-A—Edward S. Boze, Jr., 302 Locke Lane, Richmond,
Virginia

1936-L—W. H. Seaton, Jr., 307 McKinley Avenue, Charles-
ton, West Virginia, 25314

1937-A—Harold W. Cochran, 4100 West 42nd Place, Chicago,
Illinois, 60632

1937-L—Edward E. Stover, First National Bank Building,
Washington, New Jersey

1938-A—C. Price Berryman, P.O. Drawer 847, Coffeyville,
Kansas

1938-L—Samuel A. Martin, Witten Building, Pearisburg, Va.

1939-A—Thomas W. Moses, at the Sheraton-Ritz Hotel, 315
Nicollet Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 55401

 

1939-L—Robert W. Spessard, 404 Shenandoah Building, Roa-
noke, Virginia

1940-A—John W. Watson, 300 Lakeside Drive, Oakland, Cali-
fornia, 94604

1940-L-—-Wendeil R. Stoops, 6727 Rainbow Avenue, Prairie
Village, Kansas

1941-A—M. D. Barker, Jr., Box 1407, Springfield, Illinois

1941-L—Frank C. Bedinger, Jr., P. O. Box 342, Boydton, Va.

1942-A—John L. Dorsey, Jr., Ohio Valley Bank Bldg., Hen-
derson, Kentucky

1942-L—Cliff Walters, 214 Beechwood Road, Louisville 7, Ky.

1943 —A. B. Conley, Jr., 625 Hogan St, Jacksonville 2, Fla.

1944 —Donald H. Putnam, Jr., Box 991, Ashland, Kentucky

1945 —Tom Kaylor, 123 West Washington Street, Hagers-
town, Maryland

1946 —John H. Cheatham, Jr., P.O. Box 97, Griffin, Ga.

1947 —Lee Silverstein, 1416 E. 55th Street, Chicago, Illinois,

60615

1948-A—James F. Booker, 208 Medford Road, Woodbrook,
Wilminton 3, Delaware

1948-L—James M. Ballengee, Philadelphia Suburban Water
Company, 762 Lancaster Avenue, Bryn Mawr,
Pennsylvania, 19010

1949-A—H. Thorp Minister, Jr., 50 East Broad Street, Colum-
bus 15, Ohio

1949-L—Stan Kamen, 151 El Camino, Beverly Hills, Calif.

1950-A—William P. Walther, Elm Street, Eldred, Penna.

1950-L—William J. Ledbetter, Route 3, Box 125-H, Wayzata,
Minnesota

1951-A—Samuel B. Hollis, Columbian Mutual Life Tower,
Memphis 3, Tennessee

1951-L—Wade H. Ballard, III, First National Bank Building,
Peterstown, West Virginia

1952-A—Fletcher McClintock, 608 Daniel Drive, Lafayette,
Louisiana

1952-L—F. Nelson Light, Box 695, Chatham, Virginia, 24531

1953-A—Frank A. McCormick, Suite 1107, 510 West Sixth
Street, Los Angeles, California, 90014

1953-L—Willis A. Woods, Woods and Gleaves, Wytheville,
Virginia

1954-A—H. Gordon Leggett, Jr., P.O. Box 338, Lynchburg,
Virginia, 24505

1954-L—Gil Bocetti, Jr., Pilot Title Insurance Company, Box
P, Greensboro, North Carolina

1955-A—Arthur Barrett, Jr., 1114 Americana Building, Hous-
ton, Texas

1955-L—John M. Faison, P. O. Box 1878, Clearwater, Florida

1956-A—Robert G. Callaway, 2 Indian Spring Road, Roway-
ton, Connecticut

1956-L—George J. Tzangas, 216 First National Bank Build-
ing, Canton, Ohio, 44702

1957-A—George M. Lupton, P. O. Box 758, Lynchburg, Va.

1957-L—-Noel P. Copen, P.O. Box 2185, Huntington, West
Virginia, 25722

1958-A—Dominick A. Flora, 27151 Sidney Drive, Cleveland,
32, Ohio

1958-L—Norm Roettger, Box 4187, American National Bank
Building, Fort Lauderdale, Florida

1959-A—Charles D. Hurt, Jr., 614 William-Oliver Bldg., At-
lanta, Georgia, 30303

1959-L—Thomas D. Frith, Jr., P. O. Box 25, Blacksburg, Vir-
ginia, 24060

1960-A—W. Hayes Gowen, Jr., 5179 Rich Road, Memphis,
Tennessee

1960-L—George E. Anthou, 441 Blaine Avenue, Canonsburg,
Pennsylvania

1961-A—Robert Kent Frazier, Camilla Apartments, Colum-
bus, Georgia

1961-L—Michael K. Smeltzer,
Virginia

1962-A—Robert Roy Goodwin, II, 2234 McDowell St., Augus-
ta, Georgia, 30904

1962-L—Raymond R. Robrecht, Jr., 275 Collier Road, N. W.,
Apt. 9, Atlanta, Ga.

1963-A—Peter M. Weimer, The Neale-Phypers Co., 815 Su-
perior Avenue, Cleveland 14, Ohio

1963-L—-Jay W. Johnson, 88 Fast Broad St., Columbus, Ohio,
43215

P. O. Box 916, Roanoke,

5

1964-A—F. William Burke, Beta Theta Pi, Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, Va.

1964-L—Edward A. Ames, III, Seven Gables,
Virginia

Accomac,

THE

ASHINGTON
AND Lee

Editor

WILLIAM C, WASHBURN, 1940

Managing Editor

FRANK A. PARSONS, 1954

Editorial Associate
Mrs. ROBERT STEWART

THE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President

KK. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938

Vice-President

E. STEWART EPLEY, 1949

Secretary

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

Treasurer
E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., 1933

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

JAMES H. CLARK, 1931

H. TYNDALL DICKINSON, 1939
E. STEWART EPLEY, 1949
‘THOMAS C. FROST, JR., 1950
ROBERT A. FULWILER, JR., 1925
‘THOMAS W. MOSES, 1939
E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR.,
C. WILLIAM Pacy, II, 1950
JAMeEs W. Priest, M.D., 1943
FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN, 1924

E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938, President
SHERWOOD W. WISE, 1932

1933

EDITORIAL BOARD

PAXTON DAvis

FRANK J. GILLIAM, 1917

E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940
JAMEs W. WHITEHEAD

 

Published quarterly by Alumni, Incor-
porated, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia

Entered as Second Class Matter at the
Post Office at Lexington, Virginia, Sep-
tember 15, 1924. Printed at the Journalism
Laboratory Press of Washington and Lee
University under the supervision of C.
Harold Lauck.

 

Number 4
Volume XXXIX

February, 1965

The view from the observatory on Howe
Hall, looking toward the Liberty Hall ruins
and the general area of the suggested location
for a possible “Lee College’ of the future.

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS
“The Matter of Admissions...”
A Lee College? ;
President Cole’s Remarks on ie College
Trustees Lykes and Whittle Retire from Board
Joseph ‘T’. Lykes, Jr., Named to the Board
News of the University
Fall Sports Roundup
Atlanta Minks and Wahoos Play F sorball
Alumni Fund Goal for 1964-65 Set at $210,000
Final Report on the 1963-64 Alumni Fund
Honor Roll of Contributors
Class Notes
In Memoriam
News of the Chapters

 

 

NEWS FLASH!
ANNIVERSARY CLASS REUNIONS

May, 7, 8, 9

1915 81925 = =61940 1955
SPECIAL: ‘The five-year class, 1960, has been added.

Classes 1960

ALL ALUMNI of the Academic and Law Classes are urged to make
their plans to attend.

 

 

 

 

“The Matter of

Admissions...

 

2 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

N JULY 25, 1964, the Board of Trustees of Wash-
©) ington and Lee University, after long and
thoughtful discussion, approved a statement for entry
in the Board’s official minutes, one which dealt with
the University’s admissions process.

The statement said:

‘The matter of admissions was mentioned. It was
noted that no provision of the-Charter, no. provision
of the By-Laws and no resolution of the Board has
established a policy of discrimination among qualified
applicants for admission. Traditionally matters per-
taining to the qualifications of applicants for admis-
sion have been entrusted to the Faculty and its ap-
propriate committees, and the By-Laws of the Uni-
versity so provide. The Board of Trustees has no cause
to doubt the appropriateness of this delegation of
authority to the Faculty and has no cause to doubt
the collective wisdom of the Faculty in discharging the
concomitant responsibility.”

By this statement the Board made clear the ab-
sence of any stated policy of discrimination at Wash-
ington and Lee, and it also made clear that the Board
would impose no de facto policy of discrimination
against fully qualified applicants for admission.

Because the action represented, in the Board’s view,
a Clarification of policy, rather than a change or re-
versal of policy, the Board saw no need for a public
statement. As a result of queries from faculty mem-
bers, President Cole communicated the substance of
the Board statement to the faculty at its first meeting
in October. |

When the Board of Trustees met in regular session
on October 23-24, President Cole conveyed to its
members the request of the editors of the Ring-tuwm
Phi for a statement for publication relative to the
matter of admissions. Subsequently, the Board author-
ized the release of the following statement exclusively
to the student editors. The statement, which was car-
ried in the Ring-tum Phi issue published on October
28, said: |

“Washington and Lee University’s Board of Trus-
tees has reafirmed the university faculty’s responsi-
bility in determining standards of admission for
qualified applicants.

“President Fred C. Cole said today that “he Board
of ‘Trustees has no cause to doubt the appropriateness
of this delegation of authority to the faculty and has
no cause to doubt the collective wisdom of the faculty
in discharging the concomitant responsibility.’

“In response to an inquiry from the editors of the
Ring-tum Phi, President Cole said the Board consid-
ered the University’s admissions policy at its meeting
on July 25.

“Said President Cole:

“It was noted that no provision of the Charter,
no provision of the By-laws and no resolution of the
Board has established a policy of discrimination
among qualified applicants for admission. Tradition-
ally, matters pertaining to the qualifications of appli-
cants for admission have been entrusted to the Faculty
and its appropriate committees, and the By-laws of
the University so provide.’

“A faculty committee on Admissions at Washing-
ton and Lee, which reports to the general faculty, is
composed of nine professors from the College and
the School of Commerce and Administration and four
members of the University’s administrative staff.

“Dr. Edward C. Atwood, Jr., dean of students and
professor of economics, is chairman of the committee.
Its members are:

“Dr. C. Westbrook Barritt, professor of Romance
languages; Dr. Sydney M. B. Coulling, associate pro-
fessor of English; Mr. John M. Gunn, Jr. assistant
professor of economics; Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard, asso-
clate professor of psychology; Dr. William A. Jenks,
professor of history; Mr. John K. Jennings, assistant
professor of journalism; Dr. Cecil D. Jones, associate
professor of fine arts; Mr. Henry L. Ravenhorst, asso-
ciate professor of engineering; Dr. Edgar W. Spencer,
protessor of geology; Associate Dean of Students James
D. Farrar, director of admissions; Assistant Dean of
Students Lewis G. John, director of financial aid; and
Dean, Emeritus, Frank J. Gilliam, former dean of
admissions. |

“The committee reviews all applications for admis-
sions to Washington and Lee and selects the 330 to 340
students who annually compose the entering under-
graduate class.

“A separate admissions committee functions with-
in the School of Law. The faculty there has the same
delegation of authority and responsibility for admis-
sions to the School of Law as that possessed by the
faculty in the college.”

Reports relative to Washington and Lee’s admis-
sions procedures circulated by the general news media
were interpolations of the statement appearing in the
Ring-tum Phi.

—

FALL 1964

 

A Lee College?

The Question of the Future Size and Development

BOLD NEW CONCEPT Of the fu-
A ture nature of Washington
and Lee University has been intro-
duced by President Cole for discus-
sion among trustees, professors, stu-
dents, and alumni.

In his address to the opening as-
sembly of the 1964-65 academic
year, President Cole described in
general but  thought-provoking
terms how a “companion college”
might be established adjacent to
the present campus, thus affording
Washington and Lee an opportun-
ity to “play a larger role in Ameri-
can higher education.”

An additional college, as envis-
ioned by President Cole, would
share many existing and future fa-
cilities with the current divisions
of the University, but many other
aspects of the present undergradu-
ate program and its supporting fa-
cilities would be duplicated in the
new facility.

For easy reference, he called the
companion college “Lee College”
and the existing undergraduate col-

4

Of Washington and Lee Has Been Discussed for Many

Years. President Cole Has Suggested the Possibility

Of a ‘Companion College” as One Direction to ‘ake.

lege of arts and sciences “Washing-
ton College.”

Such a college, President Cole
suggested, would enable Washing-
ton and Lee to increase significant-
ly its undergraduate enrollment
without affecting adversely the ex-
isting patterns of undergraduate
education or the University’s tradi-
tional emphasis on close relation-
ships among professors and stu-
dents.

President Cole suggested that
such expansion would be wholly
consonant with the University’s
basic purpose of undergraduate ed-
ucation of a superior quality. Presi-
dent Cole’s public remarks have of-
ten stressed the importance to Am-
erican higher education of insti-
tutions such as Washington and
Lee whose primary goal is educa-
tion at the undergraduate level,
rather than in graduate and re-
search programs which at some
schools overshadow undergraduate
programs in facilities, financial sup-
port, and prestige.

President Cole emphasized be-

fore the assembly, as well as in lat-
er remarks on the subject, that the
concept of Lee College was at pres-
ent only a discussion topic, not a
definite plan for the future devel-
opment of Washington and Lee.

The president reported that the
University’s Board of ‘Trustees had
approved in principle a suggestion
that Washington and Lee give “‘seri-
ous and detailed consideration to
its future size, its nature, and its
responsibility in higher education.”
He said the idea of a Lee College
was presented to the Trustees in
the form of a discussion paper, and
that the Trustees had accepted this
paper as a “work sheet or frame-
work for approaching this study
of the future.

“No commitment to this course
has been made, nor can one be
made for many months or years to
come,” said President Cole. “It is
intended as one point of depar-
ture.”

Behind the prospect of a larger
Washington and Lee University,
President Cole said, is the question

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The area at the top of this
photo, immediately — be-
yond the athletic fields, is
the general location sug-
gested for future expan-
sion of the University’s fa-
cilities.

of the University’s responsibility to
American higher education in ac-
cepting more of the highly quali-
fied young men clamoring for ad-
mission to the nation’s leading col-
leges and universities. If it 1s de-
cided that Washington and Lee
should grow larger, then the ques-
tion arises, President Cole said,
“How can this be done without
disrupting a good situation.”

He suggested that Lee College,
with students, faculty, and facili-
ties identical in quality with those
of Washington College, may be a
possible answer. He invited every-
one with an interest in the Uni-
versity’s progress to give thought-
ful consideration to this and other
aspects of the institution’s future.
(Excerpts of President Cole’s re-
marks to the opening assembly ap-
pear on Page 7.) :

Subsequent to his assembly re-
marks and attendant coverage by
Virginia’s press, Lee College did be-
come a topic of considerable discus-
sion among professors and students.

FALL 1964

‘The student newspaper comment-
ed in various editorials and student
columns, and the Faculty Discus-
sion Club devoted a meeting to the
Lee College idea. President Cole
was present and elaborated on the
description of Lee College given to
the ‘Trustees in their discussion
paper.

Following is a summation of the
concept of Lee College and its re-
lationship to the existing Univer-
sity. It is general in nature, and as
suggested to the Board of ‘Trustees,
it can serve only as a basis for dis-
cussion and not as a definitive blue-
print upon which specifications can
be devised.

* * *

Lee College would be a sep-
arate division of Washington and
Lee University whose major aca-
demic emphasis would be identi-
cal with the existing Washing-
ton College. Lee College would
be constructed new on land pos-
sessed by Washington and Lee
west of the present campus in the

 

general vicinity of the Liberty
Hall ruins.

It would be a separate admin-
istrative unit, with its own aca-
demic dean, department heads,
dean of students, registrar, and
other administrative staff mem-
bers.

It would be a residential col-
lege, with all students housed in
dormitory units of relatively
small size. A dining hall capable
of accommodating the entire en-
rollment of the college is a pos-
sibility, although it may be more
practical to have smaller dining
units serving one or more dorm-
itory units.

‘There would be classroom and
laboratory facilities equal in
quality to the existing facilities
in Washington College.

A faculty equally well-quali-
fied and equally well-trained
would be gathered to teach in
Lee College. Salary ranges would
be the same for both colleges.

For the most part, courses of-

fered in the two colleges would
be identical, particularly on the
lower levels, while at advanced
levels where classes are normally
smaller and can accommodate ad-
ditional students without loss of
effectiveness, there would be an
attempt to avoid duplication. In
this way, each college would have
distinctive advanced courses
which would be shared by stu-
dents from each division.

No attempt would be made to
duplicate within the new college
offerings of the School of Com-
merce and Administration, with
the exception of some courses
normally associated with the
Freshman and Sophomore years.
The School of Commerce and
Administration would continue
as before in its present location
and would draw its students from
both Washington College and
Lee College. The School of Law
would develop its program with-
in its own established pattern.

No attempt would be made to
duplicate the offerings in Jour-
nalism and Communications.
‘This department, now in new fa-
cilities of adequate size to accom-
modate future growth, would al-
so draw its students from both
colleges.

Lee College would have its
own library, with much of the
holdings of the existing McCor-
mick Library duplicated. Athlet-
ic facilities, auditorium, infirm-
ary, and little theater are among
facilities which would be shared
by the two colleges, located so as
to be convenient to each college
campus. |

As Lee College developed and
its new and modern facilities
were put into use, it would be es-
sential that funds also be provid-
ed to improve existing facilities
at Washington College so that
the new division would not have
physical superiority over the oth-
er. Every attempt would be made
to make the two colleges as equal
in every way as possible, so that
a student’s preference for one
over another would depend upon

purely subjective considerations.

Prospective students in Lee ©

and Washington Colleges would
apply for admission to a Univer-
sity admissions office, and would
be assigned by the Universify to
one or the other college.

The existing fraternity organi-
zation of Washington College
could be expected to pose certain
problems in regard to the resi-
dential nature of Lee College.
Lee College students would be
eligible for membership in fra-
ternities, but would live in col-
lege facilities on the Lee campus.

Landscaping would be _ neces-
sary to facilitate movement and
communication between the two
campuses. Adjustment of class
schedules would be necessary to
permit sufficient time for stu-
dents to move from one campus
to the other between classes.

Each of these general descrip-
tive statements poses a challenge
to academic or administrative in-
genuity. Some questions which
arise have no apparent answers
at present. But in the concept of
a companion college as one an-
swer to Washington and Lee’s

educational responsibility there
is the possibility of a successful
development. And in the careful
thought and planning that such
a venture would demand, there
may develop other more feasible
solutions that would enable the
University to increase its services
and influence without possible
injury to a program of proven
merit.

Financing would be a major
obstacle. Existing resources which
support Washington and Lee
would not be diverted, and
would grow simultaneously with
the acquisition of new funds for
Lee College.

 

Reaction to the idea of a Lee
tg i Rises,
Colfe s been varied, aS was ex-

pected by President Cole. As point-
ed out in his remarks to the assem-
bly, questions can be posed for
which there are no answers at pres-
ent. But President Cole believes the
questions that evolve from thought
and discussion on Lee College will
be helpful to the University in its
consideration of its future course.

‘The University has begun a com-
prehensive Self-Study Program in
complhance with the requirements
of the Southern Association of Col-
leges and Schools, the regional ac-
crediting association of which
Washington and Lee is a member.
The feasibility of a Lee College is
not a primary concern of the Self-
Study, but the detailed self-evalua-
tion of all aspects of the University
which the Self-Study entails will
provide valuable data and insight
when and if it does become feasible
to pursue further the concept of a
companion college.

 

“As much as we might wish to keep our
present comfortable existence, the chang-
ing times might bring obscurity if our
growth ceases.”

“The money and efforts which would go
into creating Lee College can better be
expended in perfecting the school we
already have.”

—Student comment on Lee College in the Ring-tum Phi

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

President Cole’s Lee College
Remarks at the Opening Assembly

“For the next few minutes I will suggest a matter
that all of you may wish to consider as you think
about the longer term future of your University.

“It is always dangerous to make assumptions in
regard to an institution that has had a successful ex-
istence for two centuries, and it is risky to suggest that
some plan or another is worthy of consideration and
study. Nevertheless, it is appropriate, I believe, to say
that, by the very nature of things, faculty and students
are desirous that their University attempt to meet the
demands of the times and of the future. If one may be
optimistic, and certainly this is often difficult, it may
be suggested that most of the current problems faced
by Washington and Lee will be solved in whole or in
substantial part in the foreseeable future.

“There would, nevertheless, remain the question
as to whether or not the University has done all that
it should do to fulfill its role in the educational prog-
ress of the Nation in the second half of the goth cen-
tury.

“Tf It Could Be Assumed...”

“Tf it could be assumed that the faculty will be-
come as strong as it should be in all respects, that it
will be paid as well as it should be, and that there
will be full opportunity for professors to teach and
study, to do research, to write, to work, and to rest—
all the things that contribute to a full life of scholar-
ship and service—what would be the next appropriate
step in regard to faculty and scholarship at Washing-
ton and Lee? '

“Tf it could be assumed that the student body con-
tinues its present growth in the advanced classes and
that it will possess the capability and the motivation
to do superior work in all it undertakes, and that the
ratio of faculty and students becomes as close to the
ideal as can be determined, what would be the next
appropriate step in regard to those students who apply
and cannot be accommodated?

“If it could be assumed that all physical facilities
that are needed for this faculty and for this student
body are provided, what would be the next appropri-
ate step in regard to buildings on this campus?

“We know this: There will be several times as
many good students, excellent students, who will apply

FALL 1964

to institutions like this one and who must be turned
away unless there is an increase in the number of ad-
missions. We believe this: That there are over this
country good teachers and scholars who would be
happier and more successful here than at other uni-
versities or colleges. We know this: That there is a
greater and greater imbalance each year between stu-
dent body and faculty at publicly supported univer-
sities and those that are privately controlled. We know
this: That the need for well educated young men is in-
creasing significantly each year. |

“What should be done, then, by Washington and
Lee as it looks to the future?

The University’s Responsibility

“Does a university have a responsibility to con-
sider its role in the future, to set up alternate plans
and proposals, study them and debate them? Perhaps
not, but let me go further.

“Washington and Lee has an enrollment now of
approximately 1300 students. If the ideal we are now
seeking with our present facilities is achieved, we
would admit 335 to 340 students each year and grad-
uate that number in the undergraduate divisions. We
would admit 60 to 70 men to the first year of Law
and graduate that number. This is an ideal which
we will not achieve in my time or in yours, but we
can dream. In any case, when we look at this number,
about 1450, it is not a large one but it is a number
which we can house and teach comfortably in our pres-
ent facilities.

“My view is that the present size of the facilities
and the student body, or as it would be if we lost no
student who entered here, is a good one and al-
lows for the type of association among students and
among faculty that is healthy and sound. But if it
should be determined that this University should play
a larger role in American higher education, how can
this be done without disrupting a good situation?

“Let me state a personal conviction. ‘Today more
than at any other time in our history we have a need
for a close relationship among teachers and students.
I say “among” rather than “between,” for these close
relationships must exist horizontally as well as ver-
tically in a healthy academic community. I believe

7

 

 

that Washington and Lee, and schools like it, present
our best hope to counter the trend toward over-spe-
cialization and fragmentation in our educational sys-
tem. With these points before you, should Washing-
ton and Lee consider affording its influence, its help,
its leadership, to greater numbers than now? If the
answer to this, a question which must be considered
carefully, is positive, then there are a number of ways
to approach the problem; but I will suggest only one.

‘In January of this year, the Trustees of Washing-
ton and Lee were presented with a discussion paper.
The paper outlined certain assumptions and posed
questions similar to those I have just stated. ‘The paper
assumed also that an increase in the enrollment was
desirable.

“A way was suggested to increase significantly the
undergradute enrollment without adverse effect to the
existing College and schools:

“A companion college would be established on
grounds adjacent to or nearby the existing campus.
The companion college would duplicate most of the
desirable features of the existing college. It would have
its own physical plant and its own separate but equal-
ly highly-qualified faculty and student body.

“For the purposes of easy reference, the discussion
paper identified the new school as “Lee College,”
while referring to the existing college as ‘“Washing-
ton College.” I shall do the same in my remarks here.

“The very mention of another college conjures up
a host of questions, problems, and doubts, all of which
must be resolved before the college could become a
reality. Almost none of them can be answered or
dealt with immediately with any real solution. Much
further study and debate will be necessary.

“However, a general description of Lee College,
as envisioned in the discussion paper, 1s possible at
this time:

A Separate Division

“It would be a separate division of Washington
and Lee University, its major academic emphasis
identical with the existing College. Its campus would
be to the west of the present campus in the general
vicinty of the Liberty Hall ruins and the far athletic
fields.

“There would be classroom facilities equal in
quality to existing facilities. A faculty equally well-
qualified and equally well-trained and experienced
would be gathered to teach in Lee College. Salary
ranges would be the same for Lee College and Wash-
ington College.

“For the most part, courses offered in the two col-
leges would be identical, particularly on the lower
levels. At the advanced levels where classes are normal-
ly smaller and can accommodate additional students

8

without loss of effectiveness, there would be an at-
tempt made to avoid undue duplication. In this way,
each college would have distinctive advanced courses
which would be shared by students from each division.

“If Lee College is built and put into use, it would
be essential that funds also be provided to improve
existing facilities, so that the new division would not
have physical superiority over the other. Every at-
tempt would be made to make the two colleges equal
in every way possible.

“Financing of such a plan would be a major ob-
stacle, presuming that much more careful study than
has been given thus far finds the plan feasible. Re-
sources which now support Washington and Lee Uni-
versity must not be diverted, and must continue to
grow simultaneously with the acquisition of new funds
for Lee College. Needless to say, large sums of money
would be needed.

A “Work Sheet” for Planning

‘In subsequent study of the Lee College discussion
paper, the Board of ‘Trustees has approved in princi-
ple the suggestion that Washington and Lee give seri-
ous and detailed consideration to its future size, its na-
ture, and its responsibility in higher education. ‘The
‘Trustees have accepted the Lee College as a “work
sheet” or framework for approaching this study of the
future. No commitment to this course has been made,
nor can one be made for many months or years to
come. It is intended as one point of departure.

“Almost immediately, Washington and Lee will
commence an institutional self-study program. It is
required of us by the Southern Association of Col-
leges and Schools in order that our accreditation be re-
afhrmed. But the self-study can be useful in another
way. It is my hope that the self-study can be directed
primarily toward the analysis and formulation of plans
for the future of Washington and Lee University. The
concept of a companion college—Lee College—may
prove a valuable avenue of approach for this study. It
is my hope that from this self-study there will come
guidelines and directions that will help determine,
with wisdom and foresight, the future course of this
University, and that the compilation of information
for the re-accreditation process will be an important
by-product of our efforts.

“This undertaking will involve all of us in varying
degrees. My purpose in mentioning Lee College today
is to encourage all of you to think about the future
of Washington and Lee University.

‘No matter how important our concern with fu-
ture planning may be, we will not lose sight of our
primary obligation to teach and to learn tomorrow
and the next days.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

JoserH T. LyKeEs, ‘og

 

KENNON C. WHITTLE, ’14

Mr. Joseph 'T. Lykes,
Judge Kennon Whittle

Retire from

wo oF Washington and Lee Uni-

versity’s most distinguished
alumni have retired from active
membership on the University’s
Board of Trustees after long and
devoted service.

The resignations of Joseph T.
Lykes, ‘og, of ‘Tampa, Fla., and
Judge Kennon C. Whittle, ’14, of
Martinsville, Va., were submitted to
the Board at its regular mid-sum-
mer meeting.

Each subsequently was elected a
Trustee Emeritus, and in separate
ceremonies were presented with en-
graved silver trays from their col-
leagues on the Board in recognition
and appreciation for their work in
the University’s behalf for many
years.

Mr. Lykes became a member of
the Board in 1941, while Judge
Whittle has served since 1952.

Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, rec-

FALL 1964

the Board

tor of the Board, commented on
the retirements of Mr. Lykes and
Judge Whittle in this way:

“While both are alumni whose
distinctions in life are a source of
pride to the University, their con-
tributions as members of its govern-
inging body merit the grateful rec-
ognition of all alumni and friends
of Washington and Lee.

“Few ‘Trustees, if any, have at-
tained in larger degree the respect
and affection of their colleagues.
Their approach to problems con-
fronting the Board was invariably
characterized by mature judgment,
loyalty to the institution, and a
clear understanding of its traditions
and purposes. I am confident that
the retirement of Mr. Lykes and
Judge Whittle leaves a void in di-
rection of the University that will
be difficult to fill.”

The handsome silver trays pre-

sented to Mr. Lykes and Judge
Whittle bore engraved reproduc-
tions of the Washington and Lee
coat of arms and engraved signa-
tures of all members of the Board
and those of President Cole and
University Treasurer Earl S. Mat-
tingly, long-time secretary to the
Board. ‘The inscription bespoke the
“grateful appreciation and warm
friendship” of the Board.

Mr. Lykes received his tray at a
small luncheon at New York’s Har-
bor View Club on November 12.
His classmate and Board associate
for many years, Christopher TT.
Chenery, ‘og, made the presenta-
tion.

Judge Whittle received his tray
at his home in Virginia’s Henry
County on December 18 from Presi-
dent Cole and Mr. Mattingly.

Mr. Lykes, who for many years
has been one of the nation’s top
executives in business and industry,
first came to Washington and Lee
in 1907 from his home in Florida
where he attended public schools
in Hernando and_ Hillsborough
Counties. He received his B.A. de-
gree in 1909, and spent the next
eight years in Galveston, Texas,
where he married Margaret Keenan
of Galveston.

From 1917 to 1947, his business
operations were based in New York
City, and since 1947 he has made
his headquarters in Tampa and his
home in Clearwater Beach, Fla. He
is 76 years old.

Among Mr. Lykes’ business affil-
lations are: chairman of the execu-
tive committee and director of the
Lykes Bros. Steamship Co., Inc.,
chairman and director of Lykes
Bros., Inc., chairman and director
of the Pasco Packing Company; di-
rector of the Bank of Clearwater;
director of the Seaboard Air Line
Railroad Company; director of the
Tampa Electric Company; and
member of the Advisory Board on
International Business for the
Chemical Bank New York Trust
Company.

 

 

Mr. Lykes is a member of the
Whitehall Links Pinnacle and
Blind Brook Clubs in New York,
the University Club, ‘Tampa Yacht
and Country Club, and Ye Mystic
Krewe of Gasparilla in ‘Tampa, the
Boston Club in New Orleans, and
the Carlouel Yacht Club in Clear-
water. He is a member of the Epis-
copal Church and of Phi Delta
Theta fraternity.

Mr. and Mrs. Lykes have three
children. They are Mrs. Richard C.
Colton of New York, and Joseph ‘TI.
Lykes, Jr., and Mrs. John F. Car-
rere, both of New Orleans.

Judge Whittle, whose retirement
as a justice on the Virginia Supreme
Court of Appeals will become ef-
fective on February 1, 1965, has
long been recognized as one of the
Old Dominion’s foremost members
of the bench and bar.

A native of Martinsville, Va.,
Judge Whittle followed in his fath-
er’s footsteps when he assumed a
place on the bench of Virginia’s
highest tribunal in 1951. Stafford
Gorman Whittle was a member of
the court from 1go1 until 1919. He
had attended Washington College
during the presidency of General
Lee, but earned his law degree at
the University of Virginia.

Kennon Whittle worked as a sub-
stitute mail carrier to help pay ex-
penses toward his law degree from
Washington and Lee, which he re-
ceived in 1914. After service in
World War I, he entered into pri-
vate law practice in Martinsville
with his brother, Stafford G., Jr.,
and he continued in practice until
1944 when he was named Judge of
the Seventh Judicial Circuit of Vir-
ginia. Says Judge Whittle:

“While I enjoyed every minute of
the time spent on the Circuit Court
and the Supreme Court of Appeals,
my main joy in life was the thirty
years I spent as a defense attorney,
practicing with my brother. ‘here
was nothing I loved more than the
active practice and trial of law suits

10

as a defense attorney. My thirty
years of practice proved both re-
warding and enjoyable.”

Judge Whittle is 73 years old. He
is married to the former Mary Holt
Spencer, and there are three chil-
dren: Stafford G. Whittle, III, Ken-
non C. Whittle, Jr., and Mrs. Nel-
son Woodson.

In addition to his legal career,
Judge Whittle has been a leader in
many other fields. For twelve years
he was senior warden of Christ
Episcopal Church in Martinsville,
he was head of the Henry County
Boy Scouts organization, and was
active in the Knights of Pythias for
over fifty years.

He served as president of the Vir-
ginia State Bar in 1940, and his
other affiliations have included the
Royal Arch Chapter of Masons, the

  
 
 
  
 
      

At right, Trustee CHRISTOPHER
T. CHENERY, ’09, right, presents
Mr. Lykes with the silver gift
from his colleagues. Below JUDGE
WHITTLE and Mrs. WHITTLE ac-
cept his engraved tray from
PRESIDENT COLE and Mr. MAt-
TINGLY.

Elks, American Legion, American
Judicature Society, the American
Bar Association, the Society of Sons
of the Cincinnati, and the Com-
monwealth Club. He belongs to
Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity
and Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity.

Business affiliations have includ-
ed membership on the boards of
the American Furniture Company,
the First National Bank of Martins-
ville and Henry County, the Lee
Telephone Company, and WMVA
Radio Station.

He resides now at his Henry
County farm, “Bellevue.”

The announcement of Judge
Whittle’s plans to retire from the
Virginia bench evoked a flood of
editorial comment in the state press
attesting to his exemplary record
of service to the Commonwealth.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

JosepH ‘T. Lykes, JR., ’41, president
of the Lykes Bros. Steamship Com-
pany, Inc.

 

oseph T. Lykes, Fr., Becomes a Member
Of the University’s Board of Trustees

HE BOARD OF TRUSTEES of Wash-
Sk ington and Lee University has
elected to its membership Joseph
TI’. Lykes, Jr., ’41, of New Orleans,
Louisiana.

Mr. Lykes met with the Board
for his first meeting at its regular
October session. He was elected at
the Board’s mid-summer meeting
when the Board moved to fill one of
two vacancies created by the retire-
ment of Mr. Lyke’s father and
Judge Kennon C. Whittle.

Rector of the Board Dr. J. Mor-
rison Hutcheson commented on the
election of Mr. Lykes, saying, “It is
gratifying to know that Joe Lykes,
Jv., will succeed his father as Trus-
tee. From what we have learned of
this young man there is every rea-
son to believe that he will more
than fulfill our expectations.’

Mr. Lykes was born in New Ro-
chelle, N. Y., on November 14,
1918. He was educated at Deerfield
Academy, Deerfield, Mass., class of
1937, and Washington and Lee
University, (B.S. in Commerce) class

FALL 1964

of 1941. During the war years he
was on active duty with the United
States Navy and saw service in Eu-
rope, North Africa, and both the
North Atlantic and Pacific theatres
of operation. He held the rank of
Lieutenant Commander, U.S.N.R.

Following the war, Mr. Lykes
joined Lykes Bros. Steamship Co.,
Inc. He was assigned to numerous
posts in various divisions of the
company in New Orleans, Mobile,
and Galveston, and in 1949 re-
turned to New Orleans. During the
same year he was elected a member
of the Board of directors of the com-
pany. In 1951 he was elected a vice
president, in 1957 a senior vice
president, and was named president
in 1962.

He is also president and a direc-
tor of Lykes Lines Agency, Inc., and
Lykes Enterprises, Inc., both whol-
ly-owned subsidiaries of Lykes
Bros. Steamship Co., Inc. He is a
director of The Whitney National
Bank, Gulf and South American
Steamship Company, Inc., the

New Orleans Steamship Associa-
tion, the Louisiana and Southern
Life Insurance Company and the
South Atlantic Life Insurance Com-
pany of Florida. He is a member of
the Foreign Policy Committee of
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
is also a member of the National
Export Expansion Council and a
former director and member of the
executive committee of Interna-
tional House, and the Chamber of
Commerce of the Greater New Or-
leans Area.

Mr. Lykes is married to the for-
mer Miss Marjorie Carrere, of New
Orleans, and they have eight chil-
dren. They are Joseph T., III, Mar-
garet Brinton, Leslie Anne, Mary
Ashley, Catherine Sheldon, Howell
‘Tyson, IT, Chrisotpher C., and Wil-
liam ‘Tracy.

He is a member of the New Or-
leans Country Club, the Pickwick
Club, and The Boston Club. He
makes his home at 604 Hector
Avenue, Metairie, La., and his of-
fices are in the,Commerce Building
in New Orleans.

11

 

 

News of the University
Total Enrollment Near
1,300 for New Session

ASHINGTON AND LEE opened its 216th year in September with
WX an initial enrollment of 1,293 students, one of the largest reg-
istrations in the University’s history.

The total included 338 freshmen, 288 sophomores, 250 juniors,
248 seniors, four special students, and 165 law students.

Among the freshmen, qualifications for admission were more
impressive than ever. For the first time, average scores on the Col-
lege Entrance Examination Board’s aptitude tests were over 600 for
the class. The mean score on the verbal test was 602, for the mathe-
matics test, 635.

There were eighteen new faces among the faculty, including
new department heads in biology and in military science. Dr. Hen-
ry S. Roberts succeeded Dr. Kenneth P. Stevens as biology head,
while Lt. Col. Richard H. Brownley replaced Lt. Col. Jack P. Burch
as director of the ROTC program.

Physical facilities were rearranged somewhat. ‘The Department
of Journalism and Communications moved into the newly re-
modeled Reid Hall, vacating its former premises in Payne Hall.
These were promptly taken over by the Department of English.
The Journalism Laboratory Press moved from its small building
behind Washington Hall into first floor quarters in Reid Hall, and
just as soon as remodeling of the old print shop was complete, the
History Department established a classroom and three offices there,
along with the University’s Office of Information Services.

   

 

A near record enrollment crowds the Colon-
nade walk.

Freshman Camp witnessed a renewal of the demonstration debate by the University’s
fine team on the topic: “Resolved, the South Should Have Won the War.’ CoacH BILL

CHarFIn, left, beams as DAVE MARCHESE makes a point that fails to impress BILL GRANT.

In the photo at right, PRESENT COLE obviously enjoys the fun.

 

12

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Alumni Directory

Nears Completion

m THE NEW 1749-1964 Alumni Di-
rectory is now on the presses, and
should be available for distribution
in the Spring of 1965.

The last alumni directory pro-
duced by the Alumni Association
appeared in 1949 as a part of the
University’s Bicentennial program.

At right, Mrs. Nellie Mae Rice,
left, and Mrs. Dorothy G. Hughes,
secretaries in the Alumni Office
send off the crated files of data
cards to the printer for typesetting.

 

Faculty News and Scholarly Visitors

m# FACULTY MEMBERS were busy and
visiting scholars were frequent dur-
ing the fall months. Among them
were:

Lt. Col. Richard H. Brownley,
who assumed command of Wash-
ington and Lee’s ROTC program
for the Army. Other new officers to
join the military staff were Capt.
Robert F. Hoffman and Capt. Paul
Bark, who joined the staff as assis-
tant professors of military science.
Capt. Alan ‘T. Horwedel was pro-
moted to associate professor in aca-
demic rank and to major in mili-
tary status.

Geology professor Dr. Edgar W.
Spencer was named an advisory ed-
itor in geology by Thomas Y. Crow-
ell Co. of New York.

Physics professor Dr. William B.
Newbolt and student James _ S.
Legg, jr. returned from. --Oak
Ridge, Tenn., where both took part
in research and training programs
in nuclear science.

Journalism professor O. W. Rie-
gel participated in a conference on
motion picture production at New
York’s Lincoln Center, after re-

FALL 1964

turning from a summer’s tour of
Eastern Europe.

Music professor Robert Stewart's
composition “Three Pieces for
Brass Quintet” was performed at
Atlanta’s Symposium for Contem-
porary Music for Brass.

Romance languages professor Dr.
L. L. Barrett’s translation of Portu-

guese novelist Alves Redol’s The
Man with Seven Names was pub-

 

Lr. Cot. RICHARD H. BROWNLEY

 

lished by Alfred A. Knopf Co.

Economics professors Dr. Char-
les F. Phillips, Jr., Dr. S. ‘Todd
Lowry, and John F. DeVogt at-
tended the Southern Economic <As-
sociation meeting in Atlanta where
Dr. Phillips took part in a public
utilities seminar.

Chemistry professors Dr. John
H. Wise, Dr. Keith Shillington, and
Dr. William J. Watt presented pa-
pers at the American Chemical So-
clety’s regional meeting in Charles-
ton, W. Va.

Robert Penn Warren was on
campus for several days in Novem-
ber under the auspices of the Glas-
gow Endowment Committee. He
gave readings from his works in
public appearances and also met
with student groups during his
visit.

Visiting scientists included ocean-
ographer Dr. Richard M. Pratt,
chemist Dr. Gerhard Fritz, and Dr.
Richard P. Carter, ’59, of the Bell
‘Telephone Laboratories. Prof.
George C. Homans of Harvard
came to talk about “History and
Sociology.”

rs)

 

 

 

Pror, O. W. RIEGEL, left, ALBERT W. Moss, center, and PRESIDENT COLE at the dedication
of the Elsa and Albert Moss Memorial Library in Reid Hall on November 21.

Moss Memorial Library

Dedicated for ]

a THE ELSA AND ALBERT MOss Me-
morial Library, located in the new-
ly remodeled Reid Hall, was dedi-
cated in November by the Depart-
ment of Journalism and Communi-
cations.

‘The Library is named for the
parents of Albert W. Moss, ’35, an
alumnus of the journalism depart-
ment and one of its benefactors for
many years. Mr. Moss is executive
vice president of Standard Rate
and Data Service and lives in Mt.
Kisco, N. Y.

ournalism

Mr. Moss is a member of an
eleven-man advisory committee
which is counsel to Prof. O. W.
Riegel in the development of the
expanded facilities and program in
journalism and communications at
Washington and Lee.

Members of the advisory commit-
tee, the University faculty and ad-
ministration, and students attend-
ed the dedication ceremony of the
Moss Memorial Library. Professor
Riegel, Mr. Moss, and President
Cole made brief remarks.

PRESIDENT COLE speaks at the dedication of the Moss Library.

 

Custom-Made Carpet
For Lee’s Office

Given to University

a A CUSTOM-MADE carpet for the of-
fice once used by Robert E. Lee in
Lee Chapel has been given to the
University by James Lees and Sons
Company, a division of Burlington
Industries Inc., carpet manufactur-
ers of Bridgeport, Pa., and Glasgow,
Virginia.

James Lees’ creative styling staff
designed the carpet referring to an
old lithographic color print owned
by Washington and Lee. ‘The print
shows Lee seated at his desk, and
the pattern of the carpet is clearly
visible. ‘The carpet extends wall to
wall in the 17 by 21 foot room.

‘The recurring pattern consists of
scroll-like maroon borders forming
eight-inch squares about an orange
center, flecked with yellow, with
a small maroon fragment of the
border design repeated in the cen-
ter of each square. ‘The squares are
staggered.

Using magnifying glasses and
precise measuring devices, the de-
signers related the size of Lee’s
foot in the print to the size of the
carpet square. ‘hen they measured
shoes actually worn by Lee which
are possessed by Washington and
Lee, and from these measurements
they were able to determine the
sizes of the carpet patterns.

= FIRE OF UNDETERMINED origin gut-
ted the Delta Tau Delta House
early in September.

‘The house was unoccupied at the
time, although six members who
had returned to school early lost
all their personal belongings. ‘They
had left the house for early football
practice shortly before the flames
were discovered around 7 a.m.

Insurance coverage was adequate,
and plans call for a new house to
rise on the same site during the
Spring semester.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Parents, Alumni
Bring Busy Days
To Fall Campus

# THE TENTH annual Parents’ Week-
end of October 30- November 1 and
the annual Homecoming event for
alumni on November 7 brought
consecutive busy and crowded ac-
tivities to the Washington and Lee
campus this fall.

Both affairs were bigger and
seemed better than. ever. Phe: at-
tendance of parents and guests has
long ago outstripped the meager
resources of Lexington to accom-
modate the nearly 1,150 visitors
now involved. And there were more
alumni on hand this year, too, al-
though the Homecoming planners
wish they could attract crowds that
would tax the capacities of Lexing-
ton’s motels and restaurants.

For parents it was the customary
program of conferences with sons’
professors, special lectures by pro-
fessors, a reception by President
and Mrs. Cole, guided tours, lunch-
eon, football, and a Glee Club con-
cert. ‘The program doesn’t vary

 

PRESIDENT COLE, right, poses with officers of the Parents Advisory Council following its

annual meeting at Washington and Lee. L-r are vice-chairman IRVIN J. MINDEL of Toledo

and WILLIAM INGLES of White Marsh, Va., chairman-elect for 1965-66 EDWARD B. Cros-
LAND of New York.

much from year to year, but then it

doesn’t have to—the main attrac-
tion for parents are their sons. ‘This
year the parents of 518 students
were on hand, the majority of them
mothers and dads of freshmen and
sophomores.

Homecoming this year was a big
success on all counts. ‘The students
themselves took on the responsibil-
ity for renewing the old custom of
a Homecoming eve torchlight pa-

rade and pep rally, they decorated
their fraternity houses in ingenious
ways, and they nominated lovely
girls for their Homecoming Queens.

‘The pep rally in Doremus Gym
was well-attended and obviously
had a good effect on the football
team which attended as guests of
honor. ‘The next day the Generals
went out to upset previously un-
beaten Sewanee in impressive fash-
ion.

Phi Kappa Sigma’s Miss IsABEL LOPERENA was a lovely choice for Homecoming Queen, shown below as she was crowned by chief judge
Dr. KEITH SHILLINGTON. But some of the ones who didn’t win were pretty too.

 

 

 

Britt Davin, the Generals’ senior halfback who set new WeL pass-catchi

 

ng records this year with 44 catches for the season and 72
for his three varsity years. David was chosen Virginia’s outstanding small college player, named to the AP All-State small college
team, the College Athletic Conference all-star team, and selected as Virginia’s only honorable mention for AP Little All-American.

Happiness Is a Big Upset

HE FINAL record for the season

was only 4-5, the Generals’
worst football year since 1959, but
Coach Lee McLaughlin’s 1964
squad earned for itself a special
spot of glory in Washington and
Lee’s long and colorful football
history.

On November 7, before an al-
most unbelieving Homecoming
crowd at Wilson Field, the Gener-
als defeated Sewanee’s ‘Tigers by a
modest 11-6 score, and in so doing
they added a feat of accomplish-
ment that ranks with the heroics of
“Cy” Young’s and Amos Bolen’s
eras, the "Gator Bowl year’s success-
es, that great win over Virginia in
1951, and the more recent undefeat-
ed seasons of the early 1960's.

‘The game was an upset, pure and
simple. Had it occurred in the ma-

16

jor college ranks, it would have re-
placed Penn State’s triumph over
Ohio State as the upset of the year.

On November 6, the Generals
were struggling with a 2-4 mark for
the season. McLaughlin’s sopho-
mores and juniors, as he had pre-
dicted, were showing their green-
ness, and three of the losses were
the kinds that cause coachly ul-
cers—full of fumbles, stumbles, and
falls.

On the same day, Sewanee was
en route to Lexington, sporting a
14-game winning streak, a 37-point-
per-game scoring average, an of-
fense ranked among the strongest
of the country’s small college teams,
and a rugged, nationally-ranked de-
fense. he ‘Tigers, odds on favorites
to repeat as College Athletic Con-
ference champs, were’ five-touch-

down favorites over the Generals.
The 11-6 victory that emerged
for the Generals scarcely told the
story. Sewanee was held to only two
yards gain rushing, and its 100
yards passing came mostly when the
Generals were giving away the
short pass in the final moments.
W&L meanwhile controlled the
ball, ran up 395 vards on_ the
ground, added another 60 in the
air. The Generals got their points
on a 93-yard touchdown drive, a

5 2k

field goal and a safety. Sewanee
managed a g5-yard kickoff return
for its score.

Anything after that game was
anticlimax for the Generals, but
they went on to beat Southwestern,
9-0, before losing to powerful
Washington University, 16-14, on a
field goal in the last 16 seconds.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

A Banner Year for the Cross-Country ‘Team

S AN ALUMNUS of Washington
A and Lee’s cross-country team
put it, “You just don’t run cross-
country, you’ve got to believe in
it.”

Fortunately for Washington and
Lee and Coach Dick Miller, large
numbers of fast and durable run-
ners were believers this year, and
the Generals turned in a sparkling
8-1 record in dual meets, perhaps

the best ever by a W&L cross-coun-
try team.

In addition to their dual meet
successes, the Generals also placed
third in the Virginia intercollegiate
meet which drew runners from all
state colleges and universities.

Paced by senior Andy Kilpatrick,
juniors Riff O’Connor and Lee
Johnson, and freshman George

Parker, the Generals turned in vic-
tories over Roanoke, Lynchburg,
Old Dominion, Catholic, Rich-
mond, American, Fairmont, and
High Point. Their only loss was by
a 30-25 margin to Bridgewater. The
Generals took only three first plac-
es in their nine meets, but their ex-
cellent team depth provided usual-
ly comfortable edges over the op-
ponents.

 

HOWARD BUSSE

Tim HENRY

PETE PRESTON

 

DAVE REDMOND

NCAA Tourney Bid Caps Good Soccer Year

betell

Washington and Lee’s soccer
team this fall as the General boot-
ers produced one of the finest sea-
sons ever and then capped _ this
with an invitation to play in the
National Collegiate Athletic Asso-
ciation play-offs at ‘Tufts College
in Massachusetts.

‘There the Generals lost, 1-0, to
the United States Coast Guard
Academy in the finals of the four-
team tournament, after defeating
Norwich, 2-0, in the semi-final
round.

Overall, Coach Joe Lyles’ well-
balanced team won nine matches,
lost three, and tied one. The Gen-
erals placed second in the Virginia
State Intercollegiate ‘Tournament,
losing out to the University of Vir-

NPRECEDENTED honor

FALL 1964

ginia in overtime when the game
was awarded to the team having
the most number of corner kicks
during the contest. The score was
tied 2-2 at the end of regulation
and overtime play.

Besides the loss to the Coast
Guard at Tufts, the Generals
dropped regular season games only
to Virginia and to American Uni-
versity. Victories came at the ex-
pense of Pfeiffer, Lynchburg, Ran-
dolph-Macon (twice), Belmont Ab-
bey, Virginia Tech, King College,
Roanoke, and Norwich.

The Generals didn’t possess a
strong scoring punch, but they did
throw up a rugged defense against
all opponents. In the season finale
against the Coast Guard, they lim-

ited the winners to a single, fourth-
period score, after the Coast Guard
had moved into the finals by virtue
of an 11-2 victory over Farleigh-
Dickinson.

Individual honors came to many
on the squad. Seniors Howard
Busse and Pete Preston and junior
Dave Redmond were named to the
NCAA All-South first team, while
these three and junior Tim Henry
were first choices for the All-Vir-
ginia team. In the state tourney,
Redmond was honored as_ the
event's outstanding defensive play-
er. In the NCAA play-offs, Red-
mond, Preston, senior Bruce Jack-
son, junior Bob Larus, and foreign
exchange student John van Bork
were named to the all-tourney first
team.

17

 

 

 

Captains I. M. SHEFFIELD, °53, and JAY HANDLAN, '52, al right, square off with officials and Virginia cap-
tains ‘TOM MARTIN and RALPH WILLIAMS in gentlemanly preliminaries.

Atlanta Minks and Wahoos
Battle to Gridiron Tie

By 1. M. SHEFFIELD, '53
and

‘TERRY WHITMAN, ‘52

Old Alumni Rivals
Revive Old Rivalry,
Some of the Old Need
Reviving After “wo
All-Star ‘Teams End
Up in a 0-0 Deadlock

18

T WAS THE WEEK Of traditional
| ee Army-Navy, Auburn-
Alabama, Harvard-Yale, ‘Texas-
‘Texas Tech and countless other
gridiron battles which bring with
them all the frenzy and frills asso-
ciated with football.

In Atlanta, Georgia, however, a
crowd of three hundred fans at
Westminster Stadium saw the Al-
umni of Washington and Lee and
the Alumni of the University of
Virginia battle to a scoreless tie in
a contest which in spirit and en-
thusiasm overshadowed even the
giants on the national scene.

‘The game was conceived in early
fall, and the initial idea met with
such grand response that the game
is destined to become an annual
Thanksgiving weekend affair. Both
teams donned the game jerseys of
their respective schools, and or-
ganization was prevalent with the

presence of four uniformed South-
ern Association Officials. Color and
authenticity was added with a play-
by-play account over a public ad-
dress system as well as a running
account of statistics concerning the
players and the schools. Oxygen-
breathing equipment at each bench
helped assure that the game was
completed.

Calling the signals for the Gen-
erals were ‘Tom Branch, ‘58, and
I. M. Shefheld, III, 53, who is the
leading candidate for Alumni All
American. Jay Handlan, ‘52, an-
other candidate for honors, Peter
Candler, °64, Frank Carter, °49,
Sumner Waite, Jr., °54, Paul Sco-
ville, 63, made the offensive back-
field a continuous threat with out-
standing blocking and_ receiving
throughout the sunny afternoon.
Virginia’s defense was harassed too
by ends C. F. “Pat” Patterson, Jr.,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

55, and Frank Love, Jr., ‘50. Al-
ternating at the center position
were Bob Griffith, 52, Mike Ma-
sinter, 58, and Bill Dixon, 56.
From the opening whistle the
seriousness of the game was appar-
ent, and before halftime Dick Den-
ny, 52, was forced out of the game
with a broken collar bone, Peek
Garlington, Jr., °54, had a badly
twisted knee, and Terry Whitman,
‘53, pulled a thigh muscle. ‘The
stalwart defense was not in the
least hampered, as the holes were
fearlessly plugged by spectacular
play on the part of Graham Fulton,
‘61, Rufus Safford, ’58, Hill Rob-

 

ertson, 52, John Candler, ’58, and
Marcus Cook, ’51. The Wahoo at-
tack was completely throttled.

Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, Ray Ro-
brecht, ‘58, Charlie Hurt, ’59, and
Perry Borom, ’52, balanced the
roster with fine play.

At the final gun, with the W&L
Swing blaring over the PA system
and the cheering section raising
their blue and white pom-poms for
the last rousing cheer, congratula-
tions were extended the players by
such notables as Murray Shoun,
18, Rodney Cook, °47, and Bill
Ward, *28, and well before the last
man had retired from the field,

 

The Atlanta Generals (ret.). Front, l-r, PEEK GARLINGTON, MARCUS Cook, MIKE MASINTER, JOHN CANDLER, GRAHAM FULTON, Dick DEN-
NY, PAT PATTERSON, ‘TERRY WHITMAN and FARRIS HOTcHKIss; center, RAY RosBrecHt, BILL DURRETT, SUMNER WAITE, FRANK CARTER,
HILL ROBERTSON, Juicy Dixon, and PETER CANDER; standing, CHARLIE Hurt, Tom BRANCH, Bos GRIFFITH, JAY HANDLAN, I. M. SHEF-
FIELD, FRANK LOVE, and PAUL SCOVILLE.

spectators and players alike were
beginning to talk of next year when
again ‘he Generals meet ‘The Cav-
aliers in Atlanta’s Alumni Bowl.

Not at all incidental to the game
will be a joint cocktail party after
the first of the year to celebrate and
rehash the game. All W&L and U.
Va. alumni, along with the game
officials, and wives will be invited
to this party where the color-sound
films of the entire game will be
shown. The trophy, which is to gO
to the winning team each year, will
be awarded to both teams jointly
and will permanently record the
0-0 score of this initial contest.

Tailback ‘Tom BRANCH, far left, takes the center snap as, l-r, PETE CANDLER, JAY HANDLAN, Pat PATTERSON, RAY RoBRECHT, and BILL

FALL 1964

Durrett lead the charge against the Wahoo defense.

 

19

 

RoBerRT B. “TAYLOR, 744,
center, chairman of the
Alumni Fund Council,
chats with new members
of the Council at its No-
vember meeting. At left,
is J. MAuRICE MILLER, Jr.,
"45, Of Richmond; at right
is WILLIAM B. WIspoM,
‘21, of New Orleans, La.

Alumni Fund Council Sets Its

1964-1965 larget

AVING ACHIEVED unprecedented
H success in the results of the
1963-64 Alumni Fund, the Alumni
Fund Council has set its sights even
higher for the 1964-65 fund cam-
paign now underway.

A goal of $210,000—$45,000 more
than the recent year’s goal and just
under $45,000 more than was real-
ized in 1963-64—was established by
the six member alumni council at
its fall meeting.

It is an ambitious goal, but the
Council is convinced it is a realistic
one for at least two reasons:

It is realistic in terms of the abil-
ity of Washington and Lee alumni
to support and achieve a goal of
this dimension.

And it is realistic in terms of the
growing needs of the University as
the pressures and demands on the
resources of colleges and universi-
ties everywhere mount in alarming
fashion.

20

The Council based its new goal
on a conviction that Washington
and Lee men can and will respond
to an appeal that stresses the gen-
uine merit of the kind of educa-
tional experience they shared at
Washington and Lee. ‘The new goal
grew out of a shared belief among
Council members that all Ameri-
cans are becoming increasingly
aware of the nation’s educational
strengths and weaknesses. ‘he
members feel that the contribution
of privately-supported colleges and
universities like Washington and
Lee to the strength of American
higher education is self-evident.

In the development of the 1964-
65 Fund Campaign, the Council
agreed that last year’s dominant
theme of increased participation by
alumni in the Fund should be stres-
sed again. They pointed to the sta-
tistics of the 1963-64 Fund as evi-

at $210,000

dence that more Washington and
Lee alumni fail to respond to the
University’s appeal for support
than those who do respond. ‘The to-
tal of 3,735 contributors last year
represented only 34.2 per cent of
alumni solicited. ‘The average gift
was $42. It was pointed out that a
participation of only 50 per cent of
Washington and Lee alumni in the
1964-65 Fund at this level of giving
would result in the achievement of
the $210,000 target figure.

The Council elected Robert B.
‘Taylor, °44, of Lynchburg, Va., as
chairman, succeeding Robert W.
Kime, 51, of Roanoke. Other mem-
bers of the Council included James
E. McCausland, °43; William S.
Hubard, ’50; George W. Persinger,
51; William B. Wisdom, ’21; and
J. Maurice Miller, ’45. Wisdom and
Miller are new members of the
Council serving the first year of
three-year terms.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

A Final Report on the 1963-64 Alumni Fund

HE GRATITUDE of Washington
Tea Lee University goes forth
to all who contributed to her well
being during the 1963-64 fund year.
Special appreciation goes to the
3,735 alumni whose gifts reached a
new record of $165,272.00.

While numbers and dollars are,
of course, extremely
they tell only part of the story. This
year, as always, many hundreds of
alumni gave countless hours of
their time in devoted work. The
success of the 1963-64 annual Alum-
ni Fund, therefore, is due again to

important,

the willingness and eagerness with
which many approached the task of
meeting a goal.

‘There were ninety-three class
agents, nearly 175 regional agents
and untold numbers of regional
helpers and committeemen who are
responsible for this report. Robert
W. Kime, ’51, served as Chairman
of the Fund Council,
which launched the campaign and
helped in formulating policies and
programs that brought success. Ob-
viously it is impossible in this re-
port to list all the names of the vol-

Alumni

unteers. But surely each and every
one deserves the unfailing gratitude
of Washington and Lee University
and all those associated with it.

The importance of this signifi-
cant Alumni Fund did not end
with June 30, 1964. It is a clear an-
swer to those individuals and _ or-
ganizations beyond our ranks who
look for a response to their ques-
tion: How well do your own alum-
ni support Washington and Lee?

‘The complete report of the 1963-
64 Alumni Fund begins on the next
page.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A Statement

The following is a statement of
ownership, management, and circu-
lation of The Alumni Magazine of
Washington and Lee University as
required by act of Congress on Au-
gust 24, 1912, as amended by the
Acts of March 3, 1933, July 2, 1946,
and June 11, 1960. The Alumni
Magazine is published quarterly
and entered as second class matter
at the post office at Lexington, Vir-
ginia, September 15, 1924.

The printer is the Washington
and Lee Journalism Laboratory
Press with C. Harold Lauck as su-
perintendent. William C. Wash-
burn is the editor and _ business
manager. The address of the pre-
ceding is: Washington and Lee
Alumni, Incorporated, Lexington,
Viriginia.

The owner is the Washington
and Lee University Alumni, In-
corporated, Lexington, Virginia.
There are no bondholders, mort-
gage, or other security holders. ‘The
average number of copies of each
issue of the publication during the
twelve preceding months was
10,700.

FALL 1964

 

 

<Vlame Vour @ andidate

In compliance with Article g of the By-Laws of the Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni, Inc., we are listing below the names of the
Nominating Committee for the coming year.

Under the By-Laws, any member of the Association may sub-
mit the names of alumni to fill the vacancies on the Alumni Board
of ‘Trustees and the alumni representative on the University Com-
mittee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

‘There are three vacancies to be filled on the Alumni Board of
‘Trustees and one vacancy for the alumni representative to the
University Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics. These vacan-
cies are to be filled at the June 1965 meeting of the Alumni Asso-
ciation. Members are urged to submit names of their candidates
for these offices. The Nominating Committee will close its report
on April 17, 1965. Present alumni trustees whose terms expire this
year are: E. Stewart Epley, ’49, C. William Pacy, II, ’50, and E.
Alton Sartor, Jr., ’38. The term of S. L. Kopald, ’43, on the Uni-
versity Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics also expires this
year.

The Nominating Committee as appointed by the President of
Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., is as follows:

RICHARD B. SPINDLE, III, 42, Chairman
Virginia National Bank Building
Norfolk, Virginia, 23510

Homer W. H. WEIDMANN, ’39
Belleville Shoe Manufacturing
Company
Belleville, Illinois, 62222

Jor F. BEAR, °33
P. O. Box 2071
Montgomery, Alabama

 

 

21

Alumni Fun

1887-1913

Number in class: 522

J. D. Ankrom
T. O. Bagley
T. R. Bandy
E. W, Barger
F. C. Bedinger
J. M. Bierer

J. R. Blackburn
R. R. Blake
W. F. Blanton
E, S. Boice

D. A. Bradham
O. H. Breidenbach
M. Brown

J. W. Bruce

Cc. E. Burks

C. I. Carey

J. R. Caskie
W. L. Cazort
A. H. Chandler*
C. T. Chenery
H. S. Coffey
R, J. Coke

L. M. Collins
F. Y. Conner
H. B. Conner
P. D. Converse
B. W. Coulter
L. R, Craighill
F. R. Crawford
Cc. C. Crockett
H. L. Crowgey
J. B. Dabney

R.

DORTeVSIr ASSO

SQ yysPuoouomHMnsw4

P. Daniel
T. Dawkins
S. Delaplaine

W. Denham
J. Desha
W. Dew

C,. Dickerson
W. Dickey
W. Diehl

S. Dixon

A. Doss

R. Dunham
W. Earman
W. Egegieston
T. Ellis

F. Fiery

T. Flanary*
H. Foard
L, Frink

L. Gibbs*
M. Glasgow
B. Goodloe
C. Gray

T. Gray

L. Groover
Gundy*

R. Handlan
J. Harbert

. W. Hargrave
W. Harman
N. Harrison
EK. Haw

J. Heazel

. C. Hedrick*

T. Delaplaine*

A. L. Herold
D. H. Hill

C. Hinton

F. R. Hocker
J, O. Hodgkin
R. M. Hoffman
W. L. Hoge

J. M. Holloway
S. A. Honaker
A. K. Hopkins
A. H, Hopkins
A. A. Houser
H. M. Houston
F. M. Hudson
L. L. Humphreys
W. A. Hyman
R, P. Ingram
E. C. Jalonik
R. W. Johnson
W. M. Johnson
R. S. Keebler
W. W. Keyser
A. C, Knight
M. E, Kurth
W. G. Lackey
H. J. Lemley
P. L’Engle

5: Go Liha

A. G, Lively
B. J. Lubin
W. R. McCain
D. W. M. MacCluer
J. A. McClure
G. P. McCord
L. McCulloch

W. McDonald

A. McDowell

H. P. MacFarland
B. McLester

J. C. McPheeters
S. B. McPheeters
C, H. Marstiller
S. B. Mason

U. G. Medford
H. L. Michael
J. R. Mighell
E. M. Millen
H. W. Miller
W. M. Miller
R. C. Milling
C, C. Moore
D. T. Moore
E. C. Moore
J. M. Moore
W. E. Moreland

B. Noell

. Owen, Jr.

P. Paxton

P. Peeples

. W. Phillips
Pilkington, Jr.
Pipes

. C. Pobst

bo rt ty

wo

jO

=
Fy

e

WP OOO HUURUP On MOmaRM ROM

WenmmPid

B
B
W.
E
P
L

d Honor Roll, 1963-64

. Price
. . Rader
Reeves

Riser

. Ritenour
Robinson
Rockwell
. Rowe
Ruff
Sanders

D. Somerville
Somerville, Jr.
H. Spahr

K. Speed
Stant
Stedman
Stephenson
Stotler

Streit

Swartz
Sydenstricker
Syron

Tabb

 

These 30 sons of alumni were among participants at the 1964 opening of Freshman Camp. Front row, |-r, PAUL A. Bowrr; JOHN H.
Warp, IV; Joun H. Lawrence, JR.; Houston M. Krmproucn, JR.; Howard K. ‘TAYLor, JR.; ALEXANDER S. JONES; CLYDE S. BEAR; and
WiturAM E. Davipson. Second row, l-r, JOHN W. Rice, JR.; WILLIAM H. BAUGHER; RicHarp ‘TI. Doucutte, Hl; WittiAM F. STONE, JR.;
KEsTER W. DENMAN, III; EpmuNpD H. ARMENTROUT; FrELDING L, WILSON, JR.; CHARLES ‘C. Lewis; RICHARD W. BRUNN; DONALD J. GODEHN,
Jr.; NeEwron B. MILLER; and JAMES W. Forrester. Third row, I-r, RIcHARD 'T, CLAPP; STEPHEN K. SHEPHERD; EDMUND P. LAWRENCE, yr.
JosepH A, MAtTTHEws, JR.; THEODORE J. CRADDOCK; CHARLES H. Caprio; JOHN J. PHILLIPS, JR.; Louris E, Dupre; MICHAEL J. Specror; and
SIDNEY B. ROSENBERG.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Williams
7illiamson

rege
<
oO
ao
™
a
Ry

Wiltshire
Wine

. Witt

. Womeldorf
. Wood
"Yocum
Yonce

D. Zentmyer

*Deceased

1914-A 74%

Paul J, B. Murphy, Agent
Number in elass: 61

P. L. Baird
W. H. Barclay
H. N. Barker ,
R. J. Bear

H. Booth, Jr.
C. S. Brown
D. C. Buchanan
H. P. Carrington
R. C. Colhoun
B. Cox

A. S. Cummins
EF. M. Davis

E. B. Doggett
W. H. Eager*
J. M. Farrar
J. D. Flowers
C. D. Gray

J. J. Halbert
W. L. Harrell
H. M. Hayne
A. M. Hitz

R. P. Hobson
J. G. Jackson
G. Kerns.

A. W. McCain
T. A. McCorkle

UamssnwarsPop sas
PS MQ MO Wry

. P. Schenck
R. Searson
W. Selig

F. Seward
W. Shiles
S. Smith
E. Wayland
J. C. Whetzel
D. B. Winfrey
W. G. Womble

*Deceased

1914-L 36%

John L. Hughes, Agent
Number in class: 25

S. Bone

C. Buchanan

Chadwick

. Hudson
Hughes

. Morrissett

. Powell

. Smith

. Williams

1915- A 49%

Madison P. Coe, Agent
Number in class: 53

B. Adams
P, Adams
B. Barker
E. Bear
G
A

UNUUU SHUN h

AWUQUHAPY
Ro tmcor

. Boatwright
Burke

S. Davidson
Dunn

. W. Fowlkes
. R. Hampton
B. Hayne
F. Hays
Keaton

L, Larrick
N. Latture
T. Lyle*
McCord

EK. Meek

TS ODU Se HORUS SO RZ

=

FALL 1964

 

 

 

 

L. Polk P. D. Barnes M. C. Shoun
W. R. Ripy C. B. Blair F. H. Styles
G. R, Shaw B. D. Bryan B. L. Thompson
C. M. Switzer W. O. Burtner V. J. Trotter, Jr.
P. C. Thomas J. R. Campbell
F. A. Weatherford J. R. Collins 1919
*Deceased Lr Grate C. M. Peale, Agent
R. L. Cundiff Number in class: 85
1915-L 50% c. H. Ponce. S. A. Anderson, Jr.
‘ J. H. Forbes S. H. Baker
Nemo in ofall, io F. J. Gilliam W. F. Barron
Cc E. L. Hix J. T. Bate
C. C. Chambers Cc. C. Humphris N. L. Brown
Le ae Crank H. A. Jones B. N. Buford
we Hall J. A. Lee S. B. Christy, Jr.
a . Hodges C. W. McNitt A. M. Cromwell
. A. Keleher R. B. Morrison T. D. Davis
W. G. Laughon P. D. Pickens G. A. Fritchie
R. B. Loughran B. Rives E. L. Gladney, Jr.
H. F. Martin M. S. Sanders A. A. Lander
H. Ulmer E. S. Smith A. R. LeCompte
D. W. Thornburg I. M, Lynn
1916-A 35% o G A iia E. H. McCaleb, Jr.
Robert B. MeDougle, T. Pp. White <4 e Neer ack
Numb jbeent . 46 G. R. Womeldorf G. T. Madison
7 . Bagley R. E. Moore
. L. Bennett - Cc. H. Patterson
C. L. Christian 1917-L 69% C. M. Peale
W. D. Forbus Harry V. Campbell, Agent j° H. Penick
R. P. Hawkins Number in class: 16 T. M. Pitts
M,. C. Horner J. R. Brand H, R. Robey
D. T. Hyatt H. V. Campbell F. Rolston
THE TOP FIVE—CLASS PARTICIPATION
Academic Classes
Class Agent Per Cent
IG14-A eee. Col. Paul J. B. Murphy......
1915-A.. 2 Bee Se. Madison P. Coe.............
IGQI7sA eee Pee Raymond LL Cundiff.........
1942 A rs oe re eR ee B. Evans Jasper.............
1941-A eee ee. Emil C. Rassman...........
Law Classes
1939-L,. ee, John D. Goodin.............
1917-L ee, Harry V. Campbell......... :
1930-L. ee, William A. Ward, Jr.........
1950-L,. ee, Rufus B. Hailey............
1927-L, oe, Fuchlin D. Reeves..........
R. B. McDougle G. de la Haba O. C. Rucker, Jr.
H. P. Magruder J. S. Hansel T. C. Standifer
J. G. C. Myers C. R. Hill* M. P. Sutton
R. G. Nelson R. R. Kane G. S. Terry
P, S. Newland J. P. Norris - C, Trigg
R. S. Rhodes G. Ottenheimer A. Wescott
E. B. Shultz C. G. Peters J. H. Young, Jr.
L. T. White C. B. Robertson
B. F. Woodruff H. G. Smith 1920-A
*Deceased J. Waller Callison, A
gent
1916-L 60% Number in class: 78
T. A. ‘Quill’? Miles, 1918 29% HEH. G. Bailey
_ Agen : H. P. Burns
Number in class: 25 Allein Beall, Jr., Agent RR M, Cabell
Cc. J. Brown Number in class: 82 J. W:. Callison
G. H. Forgy H. Adams J. @. Evins
L. Hyre J. C. Ambler C. A. Foss
R. S. Kime A. Beall, Jr. E. B. Hallman
H. J. Kiser L. W. Brandon J. P. Hill
S. P. Kohen E. D, Campbell P, D. Howerton
S. S. McNeer* A. C. Crymble W. E. Johnston
E. S. Marshall A. G@. Cummings C. E. Kievlan
C. H. Miller H. A. Holt R. W. Lowe
T. A. Myles J. L. Howe, Jr C. D. McCabe
J. A. Oast R. V, Ignico H. F. Madison, Jr.
E. B. Rose J. J. Izard H, L. Moore
P. R. Scott R. Jarvis G. S. Mueller
G. D. Shore, Jr. W. H. Jeter K. C. Patty
H. M. Shumate A. E. Lusk E. W. Poindexter
«Deceased H. L. MacGregor H. 8S. Powell
A. S, Marx Ss. ae
S. E. Moreton, Jr. H. Rolston
1917-A 46% NM. W. Paxton H. M. Shirey
Raymond L, Cundiff, L. A. Raulerson H. D. Stark
Agent C. 8. Saville T. M. Stubbs
Number in class: 59 R. W. S. Schulz H. F. Trotter

A. M. Walker
J. EF. White
R. H, Young

1920-L 39%

John W. Drye, Jr., Agent
Number in class: 18

M. R. Broudy
EF. Cravens

J. W. Drye, Jr.
J. M. Glickstein
P. Grissom

F. D. Townsend
J. B. Waters

1921-A 42%

H. Gray Funkhouser,
gent
Number in class: 62

A. M. Bernstein
D. Blain

J. W. Bowyer

M. Felsenthal

. G. Funkhouser
"L. Gilkeson

G. Harris

A. Henry

B. Hoke

D. Johnson

. G, Kelly

. R. Knebelkamp
_¢. Lightner

. G. G. Moss

L. Patterson
B, Patterson
. M. Pollock

. L. Raines

. J. Rushton

BO Sha gnOngvorywom

W. B. Wisdom

1921-L 39%

Fred C. Parks, Agent
Number in class: 33

B. Dawson
W. Dingess
L. Garrett
K. Gibbons
M. Long
E. Moyler
H. Neblett
C. Parks
A

*Deceased

1922-A 30%

Dewey A, Reynolds, Agent
Number in class: 84

W. H. Barrett
C. N. Bealer

M. Bear

M. Campbell
A. Cranford
S. Dodd

Gray

O. Handley
P. Haynes

E. Kemp

D. Maben, Jr.
P. Madison
P. Mattox

W. Milbourne
L. Patton

. J. L. Patton
F. Portlock
A. Powell

. A. Reynolds

. L. Telford

. H. Trotter, Jr.
“Van Swearingen
. B. Webb

. A, Williams, Jr.

|

56%

R. Bleakley James,
Agent
Number in elass: 9

R. B. James

A. J. Lubliner
W. E. Neblett
L, B. Rouse

G. W. Taliaferro

ho
9

1923-A

Herbert L. Elias, Agent
Number in class: 115

E. Aull

R. L. Berryman
G. E. Berson, Jr.
J. D. T, Bold

A. C. Bryan

H. L. Elias

R. M. Frew

D. G. Grimley

W. M. Hampton
A. H. Harriss, Jr.
FEF. B. Hurt

W. T. Kilmon

J. Lester, Jr.
J. Liddell

R. Long

W. McDonald, Jr.
R. McKnight
C. Mason

FEF. Mioton

M. Murphy

S. Perry

S. Riggs

W. Royston
R. Snively

S. Vest

. Vinson

. Wade, Jr.

. Wall

. Wickersham
.C. Wright, Jr.

1923-L 39%

Robert H. Carr, Sr., Agent
Number in class: 23

. H. Carr

T. Holbrook
. Howard
Hudak
Lee*

. McCarthy
. Overton
. Ragsdale
White

*Deceased

1924-A 33%

James V. Logan, Jr.,
gent

Number in class: 157
. Allgood
Ames, Jr.
Anderson
Ayres
Bock
Brawner
Bryan
Carlson
Dearborn
Edwards
Gay
Gibson
Gibson
Guerrant
. Harrell
. Heiskell
Howard
. Jones
Kirkman
Leake
. Logan, at.
MacCorkle
McKnight
. Manley, Jr.
Manning
erritt
Mitchell
. Morris
Neal
ewman
W. Ogden
rr. Phillips, Jr.
H. Phillips
A. M. Pickus

SAMAR QODQOP UREA OP

Zawkw

hy > AO Gb
x PROS

gi ge?oUnnOMB Pompe

sons

Be ener aen ei ou sea naiuaned uma
ae 4am:

O. Shropshire
W. C. Smith
S. Spragins
S, Stone

R. Stoutt
C. Switzer
N. Thomas
Turner

B. Watts

O. Whitfield
W. Wilkinson

TSAR ARQOR

no
aN

26% 1924-L

38%

D. Newton Farnell, IJr.,
Agent

Number in class: 26

W. C. Dennis

J. B. Dooley

. N, Farnell, Jr.

W. Greene

. P. Matheney

Phillips

A. Tutwiler

. G. Whittle

P, Wingo

A. Wood

1925-A 42%

John T. McVay, Agent
Number in class: 147

EK. W. Alexander
N. Allen

T. Altfather
Anderson

. Andrews

. Bolling, Jr.
Bowers

GOWAN:

Fritz

. Fulwiler, Jr.
Gannaway
Goode
Goodrich
Harman
Harrell
Henderson
Hickam
Hill

Holt
Howerton
Hummer
Humphreys
Hunter
Kaylor
Kemper
Klein
Langhorne
Liebert
Ludington
McHenry
McMillan

T. Mitchell
H. Myrick
W. Phillips
W. Rex

M. Roach
Rushton
Shuman
Simmons

P. Sloan
Spector

W. Stuckenrath
C. Traywick
H. Uhli

. Witherspoon
J. Womeldorf
. L. Woolfolk

1925-L 50%

Clarence E. Hinkle, Agent
Number in class: 16

G. T. Clark

H. M. Gould

C. E. Hinkle
W. A. McRitchie
T. R. Nelson

P. A. Norman
G. S. Wilson, Jr.
W. W. Wood

1926-A 31%

T. T. Moore, Agent
Number in class: 145

L. D. Andrews
BE. S. Berlin

B. C. Blake

J. G. Chapman
A. R. Coleman
W. W. Conner
R. I. Daves

W. W. Davis, Sr.

SUOMI >OU> dOdei yh Se BSI he = OU UR OM ORR <I SON SORE Sa EGOO

F. W. Dismuke
EK. A. Dodd

J. M. Dozier, Jr.
L. Fagan

E. Felsenthal

T. P. Foley

R. A. Fulton

R, K. Gimson

M. L. Goodman
R. L. Gordon

C. H. Hamilton
J. M. Harris

G. T. W. Hendrix, Sr.
J. R. Hendrix
W. L Johnson
W. C. Jones

K. C. Kimbrough
C. B, Knight

H. Lee

R. W. Livingston
Cc. W. Lowry

D. S. MacCorkle
E. W. MacCorkle
J. G. McGiffin, Jr.
G. N. May

J. D. Mayhew

T. T. Moore

E. A. Morris

M. A. Mott

H. Pfeffer

‘H. Poole

P. M. Schuchart
E. L. Smith

W. EF. Smith

L. E. Wice

G. B. Wilkinson
J. N. Williams
W. B. Williamson
H. M. Wilson

1926-L 60%

W. R. Cosby, Agent
Number in class: 15

R. O. Bentley, Jr.
W. H. Brown, Jr.
E. A. Cadmus
W. R. Cosby

E. G. Hundley
R. Masinter

W. E. Tilson

E. L. Valentine
B. G. Watkins

1927-A

C. Turner, Jr.,
Number in class:

S. Barnett
EK. Birnie

. R. Bishop
‘Bowker

E. Burks
R. Coleman
T. Davis

C. Dawkins
A. Durham
Effron

T. Ellis

T. Foree, Jr.
Harris, Jr.
L. Harris
M. Hearon
H. Herndon
C. Hopkins
B, Jackson
. N. Jolliffe
Z. Litz, Jr.
P. London
A. McCain*
S. McCall
. C. McDonald, Jr.
W. McRae
H. Magrill
G. Miller

S. Moffett
Moise

P. Moore

G. Nichols
W. Orchard
. B. Perry, Jr.
W. Pitts
. M. Pope

. O. Porter
J. E. Powell
L. H. Redcay
Z. B. Rogers, Jr.
J. A. Smith, Jr.
R. E. Stevenson
R. Taylor
P. Tompkins
C. Turner, Jr.

29%

Agent
166

ee

J. C. Wilbourn
*Deceased

1927-L 65%

E. D. Reeves, Agent
Number in class: 17

P. Bumgardner
D. Conrad
S. Letcher
W. Lewis

F. Maynard
D. Reeves
T. Smith

S. Stemmons
D. Varney
C, Walters

. Whitley

DRQOFAAQAT|H

1928-A 34%

G. F. Horine, Agent
Number in class: 166

J. W. Alderson, Jr.
L. M. Armentrout
N. F. Atria

W. D. Bach

S. A. Bloch

B. K. Bullard

H. H. Butler

G. H. Carr, Jr.

E. S. Clarke, Jr.
J. B. Clower, Jr.
P. Cohen

J. L. Comegys

W. C. Drewry

G. W. Dunnington
J. B. Ecker

V. A. Fisher

W. M. Garrison
FB. Gilmore

J. E. Glaspie

J. Goldstein

R. J. Haller

W. L. Harris

Cc. J. Holland

V. A. Hollomon
G. F. Horine

R. F. Howe

H. R. Johnston
S. F. Jones

J. J. Kaplan

J. G. Laytham

C. H. Lindfors
W. J. Luria

J. G. McClure

W. C. Magruder, Jr.
A. R. Middlekauff
J. W. Minton

D. Reed, Jr.
O. Rutherford
Scales, Jr.

W. Sherrill
M. Spence, Jr.
D. Sprouse
A. Strahorn
M. Streit
Tayloe

B. Tips

F. Torrey, II
E. Wainscott
S. R. Wilson
A. Wurzburger
. M. Yarbrough

SA TOAW AQUA ASN St

1928-L 47%

W. P. Woodley, Agent
Number in class: 15

T. B. Bryant, Jr.
O. Clarke

I. W, Cubine

P. E. Daugherty
R. C. Latham
B. J. Wagner
W. P. Woodley

1929-A 33%

G. H. Lanier, Jr., Agent
Number in class: 202

Amole
Bacon

. Bailey, Jr.
Bailey

. Baxter
D. Bell
Berry
Bush, Jr.
Castner

. F. Chandler
FE. Day

Q
<

Hen rP smerny
mg? Pay Sen

Ebert

. Fitzpatrick
Franklin
Gee
Gibson

. Glass, III
of ‘Godwin
G. H. Goodwin
J. Hamman, Jr.
R. L. Hearne

S. P. Hemphill
W. M. Hinton

. Johnston
. Jones

. Junkin
. Ladd, Jr.
. Lanier, Jr.

. Lott

. Lowry

. Luft

. McCardell

. McCarthy

. MacDonough
D. Mercke

P

Ss

C

R
H
B. Lee
L. Lockett, Jr.
B
P

M

L

L

A

W. W. Pace

R. W. Pharr
W.N. Pharr, Jr.
_ F. Powell, Jr.
C. Proctor

S. Ragland

H. Rogers

J. Salinger

T. Sanders

G, Sargent
M. Shackleford
M. Sherwood
D. Simmons
N. Smith

C. Spengler, Jr.
Strieber

W. Tankard
M. Taylor

W. H. Wilcox
R. H. Williams
H, M. Wilson

G. M. Wrizht, Jr.
T. P. Wright

1929-L

S.C.
Number in class:

P. R. Becker

Cc. L. Claunch

C. W. Hamilton
R. D. Powers, Jr.
W. S. Price

S. C. Strite

J. B. Towill

1930-A 33%

J. P. Lynch, Agent
Number in class: 181

W. T. Alsop
T. C. Atwood
V. J. Barnett
F. R. Bigham
J. C. Broadus
L. P. Brown
W. B. Brown
H. F. Bullard
R. E. Clapp, Jr.
G. B. Craddock
J. W. Davis
J. P. Davis
R. W. Davis,
D. W. Denton
R. Hichholtz

I. D. Felder, Jr.
V. Gilbert
Gowen

. Grashorn

. Graves

. Hampton
Harman
M. Harvey
J. ‘Hughes, Jr.
Jahncke

T. Jones

H. Kaplan
B. King, Jr.
Kurth

I. Lewis

P. Lynch
Lyons, Jr.
J. W. McDill
W. W. McFarlin

ee aa.

47%

Strite, Agent
15

> 0 by

Pa

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

<=

Marsh

May

Merrick

Mitchell, Jr.

Mitchell

Morison

Morrow

Nelson

Nichols

Pilley

Pomeroy

Ralston

Reis

Roberson

Roberts

Schmitt

. Stuchell, Jr.

Suter

. G. Parrant, Jr:

G. Thomas

M. Vaught

G. D. Vermilya

WwW. W. Welsh

E. White

H. L. Williams, Jv.
M. Wood, Jr.

BEAU UTOGrP aw <r

Sua gien ce ait

1930-L 68%
W. A. Ward, Jr., Agent

Number in class: °32

J. Arnd

I. Bostwick

H. Davis

L. Echols

. W. Ewell

“—D. Hall, Jr.

P Montgomery
. BE, Padgett; Jr.
W. Palmer
a Rawlins, Jr.

Warevenons

Cc. F. Urqunart, Jr.
W. A. Ward, Jr.

1931-A 32%

W. P. Ballard, Agent
Number in class: 210

Cc. L. Abry
W. P. Ballard
F. M. Barron

M. Breneman
M. Calhoun
Carrell

C. Clark

H. Clark
Clay

Cox

Dean
Fangboner
Groop
Haley

Hall

Hanna
Hardwick
Harvey
Hickman

Hornor
Huntsberry
Jenkins
Johnson

L. Jones
Junkin

G. Kaetzel

W. King

J. Lambert, Jr.

C. Lancaster
B. Leverectte
P. Levy

L. Lewis
Littman

L, Lytle, Jr.
E, McCarthy
McConnell

oT. Martin. Jr.

J. C. Mayo
Miller

M. Minniece

A. Myers, Jr.
D. Noyes

N. Nunn

M. Osowitz
eeper

W. Phelps

E. Piersol

L. Printz

L. Rimler

W. Robinson

W. V. Rucker

G. H. Snyder, Jr.

Tp PADRE nau S

St ee ee oe

FALL 1964

Number in class: 1

Ww. A. Glasgow
W. E. Hoffman

M. M. Weinberg

C. E. Long, Jr., Agent
Number in class: 2

rte

Vv. Johnson, JP;
d

7. McKinney, df:
WwW. McLaurin

a. Oglesby, or

or. "Richardson
oe ‘Sanford, Jt:

eee Ph acserpate

36; and JOHN W.

. S. Smith
. R. Smith

B, Spector

J. Stark
. J. Sullivan

S. Teggart

C. Tonsmeire, Jr.
C, Tucker
J. ©, Varner, dr.
S. W. Wise

W. L. Woodall

J. W. Zimmerman

ORS S42"

oe 50%

C. A, Wood, Agent
Number in class: 24

M. P. Burks, III
M. J. Dattel

P. A. Holstein
H. W. MacKenzie, Jr.
R. L. Malone
W. H. Mathis
G. Peery, Jr.
H. Richmond
S. Shields

D, Sparks

A. Speer, Jr.
A. Wood, Jr.

QQSSh>

1933-A 33%

R. C. Barnett, Agent
Number in class: 189

H. B. Abramson
E, J. Ade

R. B. Armistead
E

E, W. Chittum

ds tee DLAI

J. Fy Cook

MH. Criehton, Jr.
J. A. Culley

R. M. Cummings
1 ea. Curtis

L. M. Garrison
J. Griffiths, Jr.
G. H. Harper
P. E. Holbrook
C. EF. Irons

V. E. Irvine
I. Jackson

(seated, l-r) JoHN H. Warp, III, °39; RicHArD ‘T, DOUGHTIE, JR.,
33. Behind them are JoHN H., IV; R. T., III; R. V.,

. Kaplan
Kimbrell
Laird
. Leathem
Lee, Jr.
. Longacre, an.
Meredith
. Methvin, Jr.
Millspaugh
. Morris, Jr.
Musser
. Nuckols, Jr.
Pound
. Pringle

sent ar Ro

. V. Saunders

R. Smith

M. Sterling

B. Steves

L. Stout

F. Suter

P. Walker, Jr.

= Watlington, Jr.
B. Wharton

1933-L 63%

B. B. Davis, Agent
Number in class: 16
C. E. Adams

B. B. Davis

J. L. Ericson
J. J. Framptom
A. R. Jones
G
a
H

J. H. Tyler, III

1934-A 27%

G. D. McClure, Agent
Number in class: 204

JI: D. Battle; Jr.
DoW: Betts
Black
Buffington
Burkart
Burn
Dallava
DeVan, Jr.
Dixon
Faudree
Field
Fisher

. Funkhouser
Glover

. Grafton

PSvSetROrsdP aaa
{p> OR > WROSEP gi!

l-r, respectively.

eee eae aey

. Haines
- Hamilton, alt,
ke Hanley

E. Hardwick
Harrison

M. Harrison
B. Hess

. A. Jones
. O. Leffell
.C. Leigh, Jr.
F. Lubrecht

. C. McCardell
D. McClure
K. Miller

. J. Moran, Jr.
‘Mosovich

Cc. Muller, Jr.
O. Murphey
M. Palmer

. C. Pascoe

L. Patton

O. Phelps, Jr.
W. Price, Jr.
Pride

L. Reynolds
B. Safford

N. Sager

. R. Schildknecht
R. B. Shively
J. F. Shroder
G. M. Spaulding
D. A. Spina
W.S. Stern
J. H. Thomas
A. Tonsmeire, Jr.
E, Tucker, Jr.
V. F. Tucker
J. Walker, Jr.
W. C. Walkinshaw
Ss. M. Ward, III

1934-L 32%

E. R. Massie, Jr., Agent
Number in class: 19

T. D. Anderson
R. D. Bailey
T. G. Berry
H. T. Jones
E. R. Massie, Jr.
C3 Worrell

1935-A 30%

C, C. Smith, Agent
Number in class: 178
B. Austin
H..: Barrick
J. Bennett
FE. Blasier
A. Browne
|
‘W

Por

. Bullion

. Chappell, Jr.
Clinch*
.. Cooper, Jr.
H. Darden

_, Diges

JOnP aapuas

 

Alumni fathers who brought their sons to Washington and Lee for the September registration included

°30; ROBERT V. MAy, ’30; HENRY H. RILEy,
Jr.; Davin, and J. W., JR.

no
Or

 

W. H. Dyer R. T. Scully E. Dickman H. W. Roberts, Jr. A. H. Alexander
J. M. Franklin J. S. Seligman J. B. Douglass C. E. Roth W. B. Bagbey
Cc. J. Freund I. G. Shively H, E. Fenner P. Pouse, Jr. S. N. Baker
B. A. Gammel, Jr. C. A, Sweet, Jr. P. Fish A. W. Sinclair T. H. Baker.
W. A, Garrett E. A, Turville K. Forster A. A. Sproull, III R. M,. Basile
G. R. Glynn J. W. Vardaman EK. E. Franklin R. K, Stuart G. F. Bauer
E. R. Griswold J. W. Vinson R. E. Graham C. R. Watt Cc. P. Berryman
H. E. Harman J. M. White R. V. L. Hall L. B. Weber C. P. Blackledge
A. M. Harrelson T. F. Wilson Cc. K. Hauke P. Weinsier A. C. Broders, Jr.
L. Hodges, Jr. R. C. Hoff J. D. Wiggins W. H. Byrn
H, H. Huster 1936-L 50% N. P. iler W. C. Wilbur, Jr. E. Cantey
R. T. Kelley G. R. Jones F. J. Williams J. M. Capito
E. E. Krewson W. iH. Seaton, Jr., Agent J. Mw. Jones L. D. Williams, Jr. C. F. Clarke, Jr.
S. Lyons Number in class: 12 R. P. Kingsbury F. G. Wilson H. C. Clendening
R. H. McCauley, Jr. S. L. Alexander S. Kirsch Cc. B. Winter J. C. Cook
G. C. McKown C. B. Cross, Jr. H. Z. Kramer T. B. Cottingham
B. B. Mantell H. L. Fitzgerald W. A. Landreth 1937-L 52% G. Newton Cox
L. W. Martin H. D. McNew W. G. Lehr, Jr. ~ Oo W. H. Daniel
S. C. Mattox W. L. Martin G. S. Lowry E. M. Marks, Agent P. H. Darsie
R. B. Mayo W. H. Seaton, Jr. G. W. Lowry Number in class: 23 P. Glass, Jr.
G. Morgan J. M. McCardell W. H. Hillier
A. W. Moss 1937-A 32% H. C. Magoon J. P. Baker, Jr. R. W. Hilton, Jr.
R. S. Munger F, A. Marsteller W. C. Bernard P. L. Holden, Jr.
H. Z. Kramer, Agent +3 J. A. Blalock
J. A. Newton Number in class. 209 EK. A. Martin L. Y. Jones
H. L. Ravenhorst BEDOE En C1056 ; Cc. A. Matthews F. M. England O. K. Jones, Jr.
H. M. Rhett, Jr. L. M. Atmar W. R. Miller, Jr. W. P. Higgins, Jr. E. F. Kaczka
T. T. Richards, Jr. H. L. Bachelder D. R. Moore H, W. McLaughlin, Jr. M. T. Kelsey
W. Schuhle E. C. Barrett D. J. Munhall K. M. Marks G. S. Kemp, Jr.
G. E. Short A. H. Baur, Jr. R. M. Peek, Jr. H. T. Moreland P. E. Lavietes
Cc. C. Smith D, Berry J. B. Pierce W. H. Robinson G. M. Lively
L. L. Smith, Jr. D. E. Brady, Jr. T. M. Plowden I. M. Scott S. McChesney
W. C. Smith J. S. Bruce R. R. Radcliff EK. KE. Stover F. R. Mays
W. R. Sphar, Jr. L. V. Butler A. A. Radcliffe J. A, Wagner GS. Meem
J. D. Spohr C. A. Butterworth, Jr. L. C. Rau P. M. Miller
F. D. Strong J. A, Byers EK. G, Rawls 1938-A 36% J. E. Neill
J. M. Van Zandt KH. G. Clayton K. E. Reed, Jr. : T. C. Nugent, Jr.
I. G. Wallace, Jr. H. W. Cochran, Jr. J. H. Rice, Jr. Gerald M. Lively, Agent J. G. Ostertag
D. R. Wallis W. A. Connor M. C. Rider Number in class 187 J. R. Parkey, Jr.
E. L. Watkins H. M. Philpott
J. A. Webber A. A. Pollack
kK. P. Willard C. A. Prater
W. A. Wilson J. W. Bey.
ok C. P. Ree
‘Deceased S. N, Repplier

| . H. Riggs

1935-L 53% L. J. Roberts, Jr.

Number in class: 19

W. M. Rogers, Jr.

T. C. Smith, Agent
E. A. Sartor, Jr.

C. Schept
W. W. Brown
R. Bumgardner, Jr. * AX Sao
E. T. Coulbourn 7 H Shoat”
J.D. Finley, II Cc. R. Skinner
WwW. W. Fowlkes J H. Smith.
* . °
A i oe J. D. Sterrett, Jr.
T C Smith J. M. Stewart
V. T. Strickler, Jr.
a - ae R. E. Surles
: ilson * my,
. C. Thomas
*Deceased E. S. Vaughn, Jr.
D. a Won
26. E. B. alker
1936-A 28% R. C. Walker
J. L. Price, Agent F. EK. Waters, Jr.
Number in class: 184 EK. T. Wells, Jr.
R. M. White, II
Pe E. Williams, II
nee W.E. W
M. Baum, TIT iltshire, Jr.
J. Bonino V. H. Witten
L. Bowman
Boe 1938-L 54%
L. Childs, Jr. C. William Karraker, Jr.,
Clark, Jr. Agent
Corbett Number in class: 24
T. Cover Cc. V. Anderson
M. Davis, Jr. T. H. Clarke
M. Drake J. T. Drake, Jr.
E,, Eaton, Jr. C. W. Karraker, Jr.
George, Jr. L. Leight
Ww. Gerber S. A. Martin
J. Harding H. T. Merritt
W. Harrison W. G. Miles
W. Hawkes V. L. Tucker
M. B. Hawley, II L. P. Watkins
G. Hervey D. W. Wilkinson, Jr.
L. Hirst H. E. Wilson, Jr.

no
oO
‘eet

DSR ORVER ERNE AWATE > SSOURQOOhs tN SOnOoUSrse tte

B. Hoofstitler
S. Johnson

W. L. Wilson, Jr.

Kahn, Jr.

Zi, pan 1939-A 40%
> aero Thomas W. Moses, Agent
N. Lanier Number in class: 225

G. MacDonald A, W. Archer, Jr.

L. Markham, Jr.
T. Massengale

S. Maury, Jr. Ww. H. Baldock, iaal

 

EK. Melton ee page 8 A. E. Basile

T. Miller ‘ E. A. Basse, Jr.

B. Miller MICHAEL J. SPECTOR, right, son of MARTIN W. SPECTOR, ’25, of Coral Gables, Fla., P. R. Brooks

a per was the winner this fall of the traditional name contest at Freshman Camp. aS a oe
H. Phillips. TII Alumni Secretary Br. WaAsHBurN presents Specror with the WeL blanket & FE. Burrows

A. Powell sarded to the freshman able to identify by name the greatest number of his T. W. Christopher
L. Price awarded to the freshman able to : ntif) y name the greate f T R. Cleek

. A. Samstag, Jr. classmates. J. F. Coffey

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

. Collie
. Cox
. Crawford
. Crowder
. Cruser, Jr.
. Davis, Jr.
Davis
Duncan
. Eackles
. Edwards
. Fishel
Frank
French
Furr
Gaines, Jr.
Garfield
Gilmore
Glenn, Jr.
E. Goodwin
. W. Grover
M. Hankins, Jr.
. C. Hardy, Jr.
ey Hart
KH. Harvey
B. Hobbes
. R. Hogan
R. Horne
S. Hoyt
P. Ingram, Jr.
L. Jacobs
Keller, Jr.
C. Kerr
H. Kibler, Jr.
'D. Kircher, Jr.
R. Kreimer
. L. Leopold
Ww. Lydick
P. Lykes
S. Mehler
E. Milligan, Jr.
W. Moses
S. Mullins, Jr.
E. Murphy
T. Myers
W. Newell
E. Nielsen
H. Ochsie, Jr.
B. O’Connor
C. Paera
W. Perkinson
F Radcliffe
Ragon
E. Redenbaugh
R. Remmel
B. Remmers
R. Robinson
D. Rouse
A. Saltsman
P. Schlabach, Jr.
. K. Self
H. Semple
. F. Shannon, Jr.
. G. Sigvartsen
. A. Snow, Jr.
. Steves, II
_W. Stuart
. N. Tennant
S. Thompson
H. Thuran
. Tolley
Tyler
. Ward, III
‘ Weinsier

eee

wena

DOS >WGRORDH ES STO PWS DOW TISAI P PQS ON SP PD EQOS AD MEP HOEMEQMONANPAN EN DANES
sSornmOm | ,

1939-L 70%

John D. Goodin, Agent
Number in class:

V. C, Adamson
W. S. Ammerman
J. V. Beale

L. J. DeVita
Foster

G. Francis
D. Goodin
M. Grabill
D. Head

L. Howell
A. MacKenzie
R. Marcum
W. Mills

C. Murphy
V. Partenope
B. Pearson
A. Rucker

L, Smith

W. Swift, Jr.
. A. Williams, Jr.
Woodward
Ww. A. Young

C. Yudkoff*

*Deceased

qABe RPA AANA!

FALL’ 1964

1940-A 37%

Louis F, Plummer, Agent
Number in class 187

R. P. Baker

G. C. Baldwin

G. H. Baptist

F. S. Beazlie, Jr. .
J. A. Billingsley, Jr.
C. E. Blair

R. W. Boisseau
A. L. Booth
Brodie, Jr.

S. Broome

E. Brown, Jr.
EK. Bruce, Jr.
G. Buck

T. Burton

E. Buxton

E. Carson

L. Coleman

F. Coulbourn
Diamond

D. Dickens

G. Disbrow, Jr.
R. Disharoon

. R. J. Dunn, Jr.
Farber
Foote
Fuller

. Garges, Jr.
Gayle

Gist, Jr.
Grasty

L. Green, Jr.

SWoRP Str

Hausrath

K,. Helm, Jr.
V. Hersey
Hertz

E. Hill

H. Hogan
Hunter

S. Hutcheson, Jr.
W. Johnston
R. Jones

M. Kenna

M. Kramer
Lewis

R. McCaskill
T. McClure
E. McLaughlin
S. Metcalf, Jr.
R. Mighell, III
H. Miller

M. Moore

C. Oswalt

FEF. Plummer
B. Rea, Jr.
M. Read

E. Rice

T. Shepherd
L. Spaulding
. B. Stoddart
O. Turner

G. Walker, Jr.
M. Walker
Washburn
Watterson
Whaley, Jr.
Willis
Wing, III
Woodward
Lf Young

1940-L 50%

O. B. McEwan, Agent
Number in class: 20

H. W. Brittenbender
W. S. Burns

EK. J. Foltz

J. N. Harman, III

Oo. B. McEwan

E. S. Robey, Jr.

S. Schewel

H. R. Stephenson, Jr.
W. Stoops

J. C. White

1941-A 43%

Emil C. Rassman, Agent
Number in class: 216

H. Adams
W. Avent

D. Barker

S. Berghaus
T. Bishop, Jr.
C. Boxill
Bratenahl

S. Brizendine
W. Brockenbrough
D. Brown
Bruinsma

C. Bryan

C.
B.
. Ake
BH.
ee

ee

ARNAAPapwsera

_ ee
M. Buchholz
C. Buford
E, Chamness
H. Chapman, Jr.
H. Cofield
T. Crocker, Jr.

E. C. D’Emilio
Disney
D. Durhani
Eccleston

V. Echols
. L. Evans, Jr.
W. Faison
L. Farris, Jr.
Fleishman
S. Friedberg
P, Friedman,
C. Gilbert
S. Hankins
G. Heatwole
M. Herndon
L. Hobson
W. Hynson
M. Jeter, Jr.
. H. Keland
. O. Keller, Jr.
. G. Kincaid
S. Kirkpatrick
LaBaw

. E. Lee

EK. Lehr

. L. Levering
J. Longan
ae Lykes, Jr.

. R. McConnell

. K. MceMurran

. O. Matthews

. A. Mehler

B. Mize

. B. Morgan

. G. Morris

D. Moxley

. M. Murray, Jr.
A. Murray

Fe. Norton

A. Park

C. Peery
T. Perry, Jr.
H. Price, Jr.

C. Rassman

A. Rice

L. Roediger, Jr.
H. Rozelle

A. Rusch

A. Saunders, Jr.
R. Schewel
. L. Shannon
Cc. Smith, Jr.

L. Smith

W. Smith

E. Steele, III
L. Stein

L. Stein
B. Stombock
G. Street

N. Sweeney
D. Taylor

G. Thalhimer
L. Thigpen, Jr.
S. Tuley, Jr.

Jr.

Van Vliet
. Van Voast
B. M. Wakefield, Jr.

ego eee nt ceneen Sake eee ade dn juammoe

H. C. Wolf
H. M. Woodward, Jr.

1941-L

B, Van de Water, Jr.

43%

Fred Bartenstein, Jr.

gent
Number in class: 28

. Bartenstein, Jr.
C. Bedinger, Jr.
T. Dickinson
FE. Heiner
Keehn

M. Landrum

F. McInerney
E. Perry

G. Skarda

M. Smith, Jr.
one Snyder

de C. Williams, Jr.

1942-A

E. Jasper, Agent
Number in class: 230
W. C. Amick, Jr.

J. M. Atwood
Cc. C. Barnekov

Se

46%

Barrie, Jr.
M. Boyd

J. Bradford
W. Brockman, Jr.
M. Brooke
H. Brower
R. Brown

G. Browning
A. Brunn

F. Campbell
L. Carlsson
C. Carnahan, Jr.
Cavanna

A. Chriss
F. Ciener, Jr.
S. Clendaniel
B. Conner
M. Cox

Cc. Cuttino
. J. Daniel

H. Davidson
P. Didier

B. Ditto, Jr.
L. Dorsey, Jr.
C. Dunn

B. Dunson
W. Ebe, Jr.
A. Embry, Jr.
A. Essig

O. Fleming
E. Foard

M. Fountain
T. Fuller

D. Gage, IIT
T. Garten

B. Gunn

R. Hawkins
R. Higgins

M. Johnson
i. Jordan, Jr.
Kearns, Jr.
Korry
LaMotte
Lanier
Lawrence
Lawton
Leake
Lee, Jr.
Lewis, Jr.
Lloyd
MacBride
McCarty
McClure
McCrary
McMillan
Martire
. Monroe
Morris
Nelson
Parker
Parton
. Phillips
Pinck
Pitzer, Jr.
Raines, Jr.

ap oh> Bir, sis ehoznt magma tupeeh,

. N. Schultz

J. Scott, Jr.
Sloan
Smith, Jr.
Spindle, III
Stowers
Suarez, Jr.
Thomas, Jr.
Turner, III
Vaughan
Warms
Weber, Jr.
Wersel
Wherrette
Whitaker
Wilhite, Jr.
Wilson
Wolfe
Wolfe
Wood, Jr.
Wright
Yeomans
H. M. Yonge

1942-L 48%

C. L. Walters, Agent
Number in class 27

RAO ROP DUNS WS OADM DOD ee PODDAQNOAN AD AQP Ess ORES OOWAASP AON STP HEY OW ORSON ZOnP ON SA RORPEDOMADDUZQN OSS

SRHWECOP ag tiMoamOR SUB,

. M. Andrews,
F. Bagley

. W. Blinn

. W. Dobbins
. Glass, III
G. Isgrigg
A. Jones, Jr.
A. McCaskill, Jr.
Schaefer, III

L. Walters

H. Ward, Jr.

A. Williams

M. Yuille

IIT

PRHOOMRTAQTRAOQH

1943-A and L 37%

C. B. Myers, Agent
Number in elass: 239

C. Adams
H. Adams
EK. Alverson
R. Andrews
W. Barritt
Barrows
E. Basile
R. Bell, Jr.
H. Blaikie
Bond

. Bowie
. Brainard

gi Oe

R. Cory

. R. Coulling, Jr.
. J. Crawford
B. Crockett

. D. Darby, Jr.

. H. Daves, Jr.
ow, Ditto

. W. Dudley

. P. Eager, Jr.
H. East

. M. Easterlin
TT. Fitzpatrick
. EF. Fleet, Jr.
<; Flowers, ar.
.W. Funk

. W. Galloway
. E. Garretson
D. Gary

. W. Goode, Jr.
Gruesser

C. Hamilton
_M. Hutcheson, Jr.
. L. Inman, Jr.
FEF. Johnson

. C, Keller

eo Kirkpatrick
. L. Kopald, Jr.
. R. Ligon

. M. Long, Jr.

. G. Long

FE. MacCachran
. E. McCausland
. M. Maish

. W. Mankin

. C. Mehorter
oR. Mitchell

. W. Morris, Jr.
. Mouser, IIT
. Myers

. Neilson

. Nelson

. Noonan, Jr.
. Orsinger

. Paschal, Jr.
. Peeples

. Priest

. Rast, Jr.

. Richardson
. Runyan

. Sanders
Scherr

. Schock, Jr.
. Scott

. Sellers
Sevier
Signaigo, Jr.
ke Silverstein
H. Smith

. W. Stanley

. B. Stephenson
. M. Stuart
Sutherland
_W. Swinford
. Ss. Taggart

. Thompson, Jr.
Walker
Webster, Jr.
‘Wheater
Wilcox, Jr.

ee

Se ee en ee Ge ee eee aso

: See
A.

. W.
. J.

 

T. C. Wilson, Jr.
E. A. Zelnicker, Jr.

1944-A and L 38%

James P, Gilman, Agent
Number in class: 197

A. D. Aisenberg
C. E. Ballenger, Jr.
P. D. Barns, Jr.

. KF. Breitung
. W. Broders
Brown
P,. Brown
. C. Buchanan
B. Cancelmo, II
. L. Christian, Jr.
. Crittenden
Cronin
Davis, Jr.
. DeHaven
Duchossois
. Dudley, Jr.

. B. Guthrie

. M. Harman, Jr.
Ww. Harman, Jr.
. L. Heard

M. Hendrickson
. L. Holton

. S. Humphreys, Jr.
. B. Jackson

N. Jarvis

P. Jordan

S. Keelty
Kinney

. T. Kohr

Kort

. P. Lawrence

. P. Lyons, Jr.

. R. Malloy

. M. Manger
_R. Marable

. L. Michaux, Jr.
. R. Miller, III
do. Myers

. Nicolson

. EF. Noll, Jr.

FE, Parkerson
. B. Peabody, Jr.
. P. Peak

S. Pope

. H. Putnam, Jr.
Rockwell

B. Rowe

. W. Runyan, Jr.
. J. Schneider, Jr.
H. Seal

H. Sherman

H. Smith

W. Sommer

M. Soth

H. Stansfield

. T. Steves

. L, Stilwell
_R. Talbott, Jr.
WwW. Taylor

B. Taylor

B. Ulam

D, Upchurch, Jr.
M. Valz, Jr

1945-A and L 29%

O, T. Kaylor, Agent
Number in class: 167

B. Addison

B. Atkins, Jr.

K. Billingslea, Jr.
T. Bird

Boucher

H. Brooks

F. Burger

Mi. Castro, Jr.

H. Churchwell, Jr.
L. Crist, Jr.

GUO UUWad dB

O. R. Easley, Jr.
P. M. Fetterolf
D. W. Foerster
W. R. Gaines

28

W. B. Geise, Jr.
J. M. Gunn, Jr.
Hirsh

EK. Jackson
Johnson, Jr.
L. Jones

T, Kaylor, Jr.
W. Kelly, Jr.
W. Kiendl

A. McAllister
J. McKee, Jr.
W. McRae, Jr.
Markoe, Jr.
EF. Mertz

V. Milona

O. Moore

O. Mortzfeldt
. C, Mowris
H. Naylor

E. O’ Keefe
H. Orgain, Jr.
. M. Otter, Jr.
A. Philpott

. R. Redmond, Jr.
. S. Rowe

. S. Schewel

. F. Searle, Jr.
R. "M. Sinskey
C. B. Smith

C. C. Stieff

C. Wenderoth, Jr.
G. E. Yaste

J. M. Zamoiski

1946-A and L 35%

R, W. H. Mish, Jr., Agent
Number in class: 149

BARON aR AA! MP SSR PMEOUPEE:

. S. Brown, Jr.
HL Cheatham, Jr.
F. Cook
M. Cook
M. B. Coulling, TIT
. R. Criminale
. N. Cutting
. R. Dodson
. J. Fahl, Jr.
Fischer, Jr.
Gately
. W. Givens
D. Greenberg
. V. Guthrie
. C. Harter
C. Haydon
. S. Hillman
* Holloran
C. Hornickel
J. Huntley
P. Jacobsen, III
M. Johnston
. S. Keebler, Jr.
ne Kelly, III
G. Kincheloe
. H. Lancaster

Morris, Jr.
Moxham
Olendorf
Ottignon

. Ss. Powell, Jr.
. P. Quaintance
Randall

. E. Reams

. C. Sage

_ J. Smith

. J. Smith
Sperow

B. Stott

. E. Triplett
W. Vroom, Jr.
Wacker
Wellford
Wilkins

.R.
. B.
. P.
Ww.
a OF
.R.
.C.
_ A,

_D:
. H.
. Ww.
Cc,

ae ee ee

°
€

R. M. Winborne, ‘Sr.

1947-A and L 40%

J. A. MeWhorter, Agent
Number in class: 75

W. J. Berry

P. C. Braunschweig
B. Breedin

W. T. W. Brotherton
H. T. Chittum, Jr.

J. B. Cox, III

J. A. Crowder

R. S. Curl

M. H. Dennis

OQ
4 ¢
5
3
mM
Oo
5
—
e
eH

. Doswell
Harris
McNeil

. McWhorter
Mayes

. Merrin, Jr.
. Mosbacher
. Patrick

. Pifer

. Polk

. Ratliff, Jr.
. Romaine
. Sammons

. Shamhart
Shook
“Silverstein, Jr.
. Stephens

. Warms
Wilcox, Jr.
E. 'B. Wright, Jr.
T. M. Wright

1948-A 42%

Lewis H. McKenzie, Agent
Number in class: 91

W. B. Armistead
J. F. Booker
R. T. Bosserman
W. W. Burton
D. E. Campbell
J. W. Craddock
A. Cranford, Jr.
F. Fox

A, Fox

H. French, Jr.
R. Gates, Jr.
S. Gill, Jr.

S. Hochstim
D. Holladay
B. M. Hollyday
. L. Hopkins
_W. Ingham, Jr.
. F. James

* Joel

. F. Kay

. L. Lee

. EF. Leffen

_H. McCutcheon, Jr.
. H, McKenzie
8. McKinstry
. S. McNeer
McRee, Jr.

.P. Mitchell
.G. Murray

. M. Peters
. B. Potter

. H. Rattner

. F. Reynolds, III
J. "Pp, Rowe
J. P. Stewart
EF. M. Vinson, Jr.
L. C. Williamson
P. R. S. Yates

1948-L 58%

Carter R. Allen, Agent
Number in class:

Allen
Ballengee
Blackburn
Cavaliere
Clark
Cline
Cofer, Jr.
. Cowan, III
DiLoreto*
. Foresman
E. Freed

. L. Fury

L. Grossman
P. Haley

M. Harrelson
E. Haw, Jr.
H. Jackson, Jr.
S. Lee

W. Lowery
M. Mitchell
H. Murphy
M. Patterson
H. Pettus
M. Pitcher, Jr.
R. Pleasants
O. Porter

J. Power, Jr.
E. Scheifly
M, Stephens
C. Tolley, Jr.
C. W. Toole

sdenoruddsetnepomes
Se

See

GSP yQQEsd

Te a Men aRaeS

*Deceased

1949-A 37%
M. W. Saurs, Agent

Number in class: 217

. L. S. Adams

L. Apperson

. M. Barker

. J. Barrett

A, Berry

.M. Bertram

S. R. Bouldin

L. Bowie

. B. Boyda

. G, Brooks

D. H. Brown, Jr.

R. G. Brown

W. E. Brown

D. K. Caldwell

F. Carter, Jr.

L. Carter

G. W. Chamberlin, Jr.

J. B. Chidsey, Jr.

P. B. Cromelin, Jr.

P, D. DeBoer

B. H. Donald

S. Epley

J. A. Farr, Jr.

EF. E. Foster, Jr.

DSshOOrs mom

W. Hamilton

D, Hamrick
Harding

D. Harrison

. H. Hicks

's. Hook, Jr.

. D. Huffman
E. Latture

.#H. Lauck, Jr.

. LeGrand, Jr.

. R. Lemon

F. McCorkle

. Magruder

. Malmo, Jr.

. Mann, Jr.

. Miller

_ Miller

. Minister, Jr.

, Moody
Morten

_B. Murphy, Jr.
Paxton, Jr.

- Puckett, Jr.
. Racey

. Ramaley

. Reid, Jr.

. Rice

. Riddick

. Robertson
. Ruble
eee
Schoenfeld

"Shultz Jr.

sa ag sates aee,

. Sullivan
i Taylor, Jr.
. EF. Taylor

. M. Thompson
R. Treadgold
. T. Trussell

. Warner, Jr.
. Warren, Jr.
_ Warren
. West
. Wexner
. Whiteman
. Williams, Jr.
. Yankee, J r.
. Young

nea ee

basa ieee

—
Oo
i
°
me

37%
J. B. Porterfield, Jr.,

Agent

Number in class: 57

B. C. Allen

W. D. Bain

J. B. Coulter

J. L. Dow

W. C. Eickhof

F. R. Fitzpatrick

M. J. Flynn

R. T. Goldenberg

J. W. Greer

S. A. Kamen

J. J. Koehler, II

A. Lanier

J. R. Larrick

J. B. Porterfield, Jr.

C. Raftery

R. H, Ramsey

J. H. Reed, Jr.

S. E. Rockwell

J. B. Russell
R. W. Sharer
H. T, Verano

1950-A 37%

William P. Walther, Agent
Number in class: 305

W. 4H. Barrett

C, Barton, Jr.
J. Berry, Jr.
EF. Bidwell

A. Birney

H. Boone

I. Boswell

A. Burchell

S. Cale

H. Calvert

E. Cantler

S. Chapman

D. Chapman
R. Childress
N. Clements, II
R. Cole

Cc. Compton
H. Corbin

R, Cosby, IT
E. Cox

S. Croyder

C. Dawkins, III
N. Daniel

J. Donovan, Jr.
W. Faris

L. Fellers, Jr.
J. French, Jr.
A, Fritchie, Jr.

D. Gilliam, Jr.

. Ginn

Gooch, III
Goodman
Goodrich
Guthrie
Hamel
Harte, Jr.
Helman

Hill

Hodges, Jr.
Hook

. Humphris, Jr.
Hunter

. Hurxthal

. Kaylor

. Kelton
Kerr, Jr.

. Kirkpatrick, Jr.
Largey
Levick
Lewis, Jr.
Lewis

. Lipscomb
Lynn

. McCormack, Jr.

. McDonald
Malmo

farenstein

. H. Maynard, Jr.

Mendell

. S. Mendelsohn

ee

mS >

. Pacy, Il
Parkinson
Peabody
Pearson
Pease, Jr.
Pe ters, Jr.
Pruitt
Reese, Jr.
Rickles
Roberts
Roberts
Robertson
Root, Jr.
Rushton
Scher
Scully
Shaivitz
Shelmerdine, IV
Sheridan
Signaigo
Sisk, Jr.
Stephens
Stodgill
_ Sunderland

DS come seceded ee ee
See eae oe towed mi ee ie

J. B. Taylor
J. S. Taylor

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

. P. Thomas

. F. Thomes, Jr.
to, Thomson
_T. Tongue, II
. T. Trundle

. EF. Turner, Jr.
. Ww. Vaughan

. Voelker, Jr.
. Walther

. Warner
Wheater

. Wicknick

. Williams, Jr.
rilliamson, Jr.

PHOD > dein s oe

tae

1950-L 67%

Rufus B. Hailey, Agent
Number in class: 33

K, P. Asbury
C. Castle
. D. Crittenden

. B. Harvey
. L. Hopkins
. S. Hubard
Bs ames, Jr.

Ledbetter
. Livesay, oT.
. McNeill, Jr.
- Maddox
. Quisenberry
. Sibley, Jr.
. Sutherland

fee ene gas,
qy

4
a
=
°
=
>
oO
5
qy
:

’

1951-A 42%

W. Upton Beall, Agent
Number in class: 243:

F. J. Ahern

G. F. Arata, Jr.

T. O. Bagley

J. R. Baldwin

E. P. Bassett

W. U. Beall

W. G. Bean, Jr.
W. K. Bishop

W. Bitzer

J. K. Boardman, Jr.
T. T. Bond

D. W. Bourne

H. Bratches

W. G. Brown

E. R. Campbell, Jr.
R. P,. Cancelmo

S. P. Coco

L. P. Collins, IIT
M. A. Cook, III

T. A. Courtenay, III
J. A. Cross, Jr.

E. G. Curry, Jr.
W. E. Daniel, Jr.
FEF. Davidson

S. D. Eggleston, Jr.
D. M. Fergusson
P. E. Forkgen

G. E. Freeman, Jr.
J. F. Gallivan

F. J. Gilliam

R. E. Glenn

A. W. Gottschall, Jr.
J. F. Hall, Jr.

G. B. Hammond
A. Hollins, III

S. B. Hollis

R. L. Hopkins

E. C. Hubert

W. G. Iler, Il

R. J. Ingram

H. N. Jacobson

A. D. Jones

R. L. Jones

J. C. Kannapell
A. L. Kaplan

J. F. Kay, Jr

J. E. Kling, Jr.

W. H. Lear

N. R. Lemcke, Jr.
L. I. Levine

B. L. Litwin

E. D. Lonergan

D. R. Luedders

T. A. Lupton, Jr.

FALL 1964

 

 

 

 

C. F. A. McCluer, Jr. R. L. Powell H. A. Robertson, Jr.
B. MacDonald F. B, Pulley J. K. Rockwell
L. V. McFall N. S. Saraceno G. P. Rowell, Jr.
H. G. McKay J. D. Shannon E. F. Schaeffer, Jr.
e Me er R. D. Ropeuiel, Jr.
. E. Moyler, Jr. 1952-A 35 G. W. Seger
B. V. Neal 95 7o D. L. Shuck
A. P. Neff Ronald E. Thompson, E. B. Sickle, Jr
J. H. Patton, IV Agent G. N. Stieff, Jr
G. M. Persinger Number in class: 246 R. W. Storey
R. W. Pittenger E. Streuli, Jr.
R. Pizitz J. H. Allen F. L. Summers, Jr.
F. J. Prout, II F. A. Bear,II W. A. Swarts, Jr.
M. Radulovic W. F. Barron, Jr E. W. Thomas
W. P. Robert, Jr. R. Bayler R. E. Thompson
J. W. Roberts, Jr. A. R. Borden, Jr. T. R. Warfield
W.S. Rosasco, III P. L. Borom P. D. Weill
W. P. Rose E. B. Calechman I. L. White, III
R. D. Rosenfeld F. H. Callaham, Jr. D. T. Whitman
D. E. Ryer R. Q. Calvelli R. G. Whittle, Jr.
W. E. Sacra R. O. Carden H. I. Willett, Jr.
R. Salmons C. B, Castner, Jr. Cc. M. Williams
B. A. Sasscer EK. H. Clarke D. K. Williams
J. Z. Shanks R, F. Connally, III W. E. Woodroof
I. M. Shlesinger D. E. Constine L. E. Zittrain
D. M. ae - Lge eee
C. M. Snyder . B. Cooper E
J. A, Snyder E. C. Darling 1952-L 41%
A. P. Stephens C. O. Dean, Jr. James C. Turk Agent
R. B. Taylor R, A. Denny, Jr. Number in class: 44
J. I. Thompson, Jr. P. M. Dowding
L. W. Trigg H. G. Edmonds, Jr. G. H. Coulson
Cc. F,. Tucker J. J. Hisler FS. Elliott
F. G. Uhlmann R. F. Erwin R. W. Haman
S. Wachtler J. Eubanks C. T. Hunt, Jr.
J. D. Ward J. B, Ficklen R. K. Kelly
J. C. Warfield B. G. Fuqua F. N. Light
THE TOP FIVE—AMOUNT
Academic Classes
Class Agent Amount
1942.A. eer B. Evans Jasper....... $10,704.49
TO05- 4 eee Jorn I. MeVay..o:... 2: 8,330.50
TU28+A. he OO ee Gerald F. Horine...... 4,685.00
P0294 Ceo oe. a ee George H. Lanier...... 4,526.18
1945: (combimed) =. 42 2 re O. Thomas Kaylor..... 4,325.00
Law Classes
Pe Wilbur ©. Hall... 2. 12,365.00
TO4) os BP ee Fred Bartenstein....... 1,040.00
VO ee Pa ee William A. Ward, Jr.... 815.00
We ee ee Euchlin D. Reeves..... 785.00
194 ee Ge ee Col. C. A. Wood, Jr... 760.00
T. A. Wash E. Gardiner T. R. McNamara
H. J. Waters G. Gardner J. P. Morefield
S. R. West, Jr. . A. Grier R. B. Murdock
M. B. White, Jr. . S. Griffith, Jr. A. D. Owens
W. G. White A. Hansbarger, Jr. S. A. Peltz
R. E. Whitson, Jr. S. Hansel J. C. Reed, Jr.
Cc. R. Williamson B. Harris B. M. Richardson
T. P. Winborne N. Harris J. W. H. Stewart
D. Wolf, Jr. _ M. Hicks, Jr. J. C. Turk
J. B. Yerkes, III #H. Holler Ss. M. Turk
aa Coe ft J. B. Wall, Jr.
ey. orner, Jr. J. B. Yanity, Jr.
1951-L 347% ‘Ss Horowitz sf
. Howe, Jr. ae
E. Mel Jr., ft Funes 1953-A 29%
Number in sins. 64 G. Hutzler, III Leonard B. Ranson, Jr.
M. Jarrett Agent
J. S. Bailey, Jr. . W. Jones, Jr. Number if eine: 042

C. Carey

A, Davis, III
M. Faris, Jr.
H. Fields

. J. Flood

. E. Greer

. J. Harkett
_ D. Keightley, Jr.
. W. Kime

. F. Knight

. J. Kostel
_O. Marsh, Jr.
_W. Mason

. Li. Mason, Jr.
. B. Mills

QPUYAP rr WUoM eh <

W. Joynes, Jr.
W. Joynes, Jr.
Cc. Kemble, Jr.
J. Kindred

H. Leyburn, Jr.
. T. McClintock
. D. McGrew, Jr.
'D, Maley

. C. Manning, Jr.
. A. Maslansky
. D, Matz, Jr.
Mendelsohn, III
B. Mohr

J. Mullins, Jr.
D. M. Murray

W. R. Randall

K, Rigg

paieess 2 AC ada

W. M. Bailey
Barington

B. Bell

H. Bond

I. Bowman, Jr.
R. Bradley ~
E. Brock, III
EF. Brown
“Bucholtz, Jr.
R. Chappelka
A. Chouinard, Jr.
. H. Coleman
T. Coyle

A. Craig, Jr.
K. Creson, Jr.
. W. Daub

Panodsb me soumar

T. Dawkins

A. Drabek

S. M. DuBois

. W. Dudley

F. Duguay

A. Evans, Jr.
S. Falk, Jr.
Flannery

. W. Flick

. H. Foster, Jr.
_ Fritsche

. Fuqua, Jr.

. Gabler

. Galperin
Galt

. Garrecht

. Glasscock

. Glickstein
FE. Gordon

W. Grady

I. Grossman

EK. Hamm

L. Hinkle

B. Howard*

S. Hudson

B. Hulsey

W. Jackson

L. Janney

J. Kurapka, Jr.
C. McClerkin
A. McCormick
F. McNutt

S. May

FEF. Maynard, III
C. Mieher, Jr.
L. Osborne, Jr.
M. Pitard

B. Ranson, Jr.
. EK. Rawlings
Riesner

W. Roberts, Jr.
. M. A. Romans, Jr.
K. Salky

W. Scher

J. Schilthuis, Jr.
J. Schumacher
M. Sheffield, III
T. Smith, Jr.
W. Spencer

C. Stickley, Jr.
D. Towner, II
J. A. Williamson, II

AS WO MS WO,

ee aC kG Ree se BERG Oeste nears

*Deceased

1953-L 33%

Robert L. Banse, Agent
Number in class: 24

L. Banse

H. Bloemker
C. Calhoun

S. Goldsmith
E. Hundley
W. Lutz

L. Oast, Jr.
M. J. Ruscick

rite td

1954-A 38%

Norman L. Dobyns, Agent
Number in class: 237

B. Andrews, II
M. Andrews
E. Aschenbrener
P. Barbe
Barcellona

B. Barrier

S. Bates, Jr.
W. Benjamin, Jr.
L. Berryman
M. Blume

D. Bonebrake
Bracken

R. Brenneman
. T. Clem
Collins

C. Conner

E. Crosby, Jr.
R. Cross
Crowley

M. Davenport
L. Davidson
D. Dickenson, Jr.
. L. Dobyns

E. Drum
Dunn, Jr.

R. Hanes, Jr.
J. Edmonds
Fisher, III

H, Flinn, Jr.
M. Franklin
A. Freedman
W. French, Jr.
R. French, Jr.

OUNMMNO OBEY ZOU WUUUO PROUT OUAa

“9

 

C. F. Gambill J. T. Huddle A. W. Roberts C. B. Humpton, Jr. K. R. Barney, Jr
R. O. Glasier J. Hughes D. W. Rockel M. P. Iler I. C. Beatty, IV
G. H. Greer R. H. Ingham R. A. Rosenberg E. Joffe S. Berg
“RR. B. Grenard, Jr. R. Kops W. J. Schuler, Jr. K. C. Jones I. R. Berman
W. C. Guest J. S. Laurent R, N. Spence W. L. Kauffman N. C. Bland
A. D. Guy L. Levitan R. E Stroud E. Keith J. B. Boyle, Jr.
J P Hone tr 7 L. nett a D. quien 7 i. i. 7 EB. Bey Jr.
-8. £ , . . cCain . A. Syme, Jr. . Dz. ine . B. Branch, III
F. T. Hundley, IIilt R. H, Mann, Jr. S. L. Thomas R. Ladd, III M. P. Caldwell, Jr.
W. B. Inabnet J. H. Marion, III A. B. Varner, Jr. J. S. Langford I, N. Caplan
F. Jackson W. S. Merrick, Jr. C, C. Watson R. H. Large R. W. Carney, Jr.
W. R. C. Jones D. D. Monroe, Jr. G. C. Werth R. Laskey M. M. Caskie, III
= 7 Kenny Le E. Moore, Jr. H. S. White, Jr. C. P. Leininger, III re a ene a
.- iv. King . R. Muller W. J. Lemon K. . andler
7 °; ene Te C. 7 Nowlin 1956-L 25% G. M. Lupton, Jr. y a" ca
- G. Leggett, Jr. . C. Palmer : \ . J. E. McDonald, Jr. . G. ar
L. D. Linn C. M. Patrick, Jr. David F. Guthrie, Jr., A. J. Magoline, Jr. J. 8S. Coleman
J. F. Lowe, Jr. C. F. Patterson, Jr. _ Agent A. J. Mason C. G. Crawford
W. D. McHenry E. S. Quarngesser Number in class: 12 L. A. Mintz 7 * Croker, Jr.
. F. Malzeke D. E. Ritchie, Jr. D. F. Guthrie, Jr. H. C. Morgan, Jr. . A. Davis
R. Matthews, Jr. T. W. Robbins, Jr. M. T. Herndon P. S. Morgan D. M. Dawson
G. H. Mitchell J. H. Rodman W. H. Hodges H. P. Pate H, R. DeMott, Jr.
: rot Nock III en Nt Smee a ee i MM. Pins S. c. Dudle:
. FF, ’ . N. Simons, III . . aisted, III » ©. Dualey
. FE. , ; _D. : _M. . A. Flora
O. P. Pollard Be Shieh. Jr. J. J. Fox, Jr., Agent 7 = pout W. M. France
H. P. Porter, Jr. J. W. Stackhouse Number in class: 223 Cc. B. Richardson W. R. Goodman, Jr.
a be Quinn, Jr. R. J. Stutzmann W.H. Abeloff W. J. Russell, Jr. J. A. Groobey
. T. Raymond, Jr. D. B. Thomas J. R. Alford W._O. Shropshire E. B. Hempstead
yar ta W. M. Turner, Jr. G. M. Allen, Jr. J. W. Sinwell en Bias
Woe ae J. A. Voekel R. G. Anderson J. M. Smith We cline .
. V. Sanden J. M. Walbridge J. F. Arnold J. M. Smith - WV. Holleman, Jr.
R. H. Sherrill D. S. Weinberg R. H. Bayard T. R. Smith H’. M. Hoopes, Jr.
F. L. Shipman, Jr. P. H. Weinstein R, C. Belden D. C. Spann H. A. Hoss, Jr.
W. M. Showalter, Jr. R. N. White S.” Bendheim, III P. R, Speckman, Jr Hi. &. Hotchkiss
J. A. Sites J. T. Boone Sr J. R. Stockton, Tr. : Cc. C, Hutchinson, III
W. E. Smith 1955-L 16% 2, M. Reswell ea ALO! Jenkins, TI
W. E. Smit 70 R. A. Cairns R. C. Tolle D. V. Johnson, Jr
J. G. South John F. Kay, Jr., Agent L. B. Clark H. T. Tulley, Jr. F. K. Johnson _
a eg Number in class: 19 J. R, Collins, Jr. R. R. Warren A. B. Juhrin
B. S. Steiner, Jr J. H. Chumbly O. C. Conger, Jr. tf Beene! T. F. King, Jr
ae ee 3° M. Faison W. C. Cremin, Jr. R. C, Whiteford W. M. Kullman, Jr
Ww. W Tomas R. W. Hudgins R. Crutchfield ee enon, It. R. H. LaRue |
W. B. Thompson J. F. Kay, Jr. H. G. Cummings, Jr. A. J. Lester, III
J. R. Trimm 5 Cue 1957-L 40% BE, J. Lewis
K. I. -van Cott, Jr es 29% C.F. Davis, Jr. Number'in chive SG. L MeCormick, 111
om i Geoffrey Armbrister J. H. Davis peeieanianineaad _™M Si
D. T. Voelker Agen ; Cc. M. Drum S. A. Barbour & vy Mees oe
= wa 1 Number in class: 266 D. H. Dunton 7 o a A. J. Mood’ "
W. T. Webber, Jr. A. C. Alevizatos 8. M. Ehudin Ne ee er C. P. Midgley
C. Weichsel A. M. Applefeld S. M. Erdreich, Jr. G. W. Eason C. H. Miller, Jr.
G. B. Werthan G. T. Armbrister J. G. Firebaugh pee oon W. C. Miller
G. S. Wilson, ITE C. T. Baile G. E. Forkin oa ee C. E. Mochwart
G. M. Young Cc. R. Beall Jr J. J. Fox, Jr. W. C. King, Jr. R. A. Moore
ae J. D. Bennett — G. H, Fralin, Jr. J. S. Moremen H. Moses
B. Berman K. M. Funkhouser S. M. Quillen J. P. Moyer
1954-L 64% WR. Bond J. M. Garner H. Williams L. Mullins
. W. W. Burton - UU. 5 R. L. Neunreiter
Nasnies Beer res agent B. Bussen L. E. Goommen 1958-A 31% D. G. RT =
R. G. Callaway R. K. Halper T. B. Branch, I, Agent We Niossle’
S. Beer C. P. Cristal ‘ : e
a ees M.'B. Davie. Jr T. Hill, Jr. Number in class: 284 F. Payne, II
J. P. Brice G. F. Dukes, Jr. R. Holmquist J. L. Abramson O. B. Pollock, Jr.
E. L. Hargrove J. W. Ferguson J. B. Howard O. S. Aiken, Jr. N. R. Proulx
C. R. Hill, Jr H. H. Fisher H. J. Hummers W. B. Barnett J. W. Reid
J. P. Kilgore W. Fitzgerald, III
D. R. Klenk D. D. Flanders
D. 8. LaTourette B. M. Frederick
L. C. Markel, Jr. D. E. Fryburger
A. Y. Milberg C. S. Gay
L. C. Musgrove A. F. Gerike
J. P. Toles E, G. Givhan, II
K. L. White R. G. Gooch
F. M. Whiting L. C. Greenebaum
Le on Grigg
. L. Grove
1955-A 26% R. L. Gutberlet
J. Hardin Marion, IKI, ¥. i Til
_ Agent 7 Jet
Number in class: 225 L. E.. Tobison
K. L. Abernathy R. E. Johnson
W. W. Albers R. M. Johnston
I. T. Baker A. O, Jones, Jr.
A. E. W. Barrett, Jr. S. J. Kaplan
F. B. Bear J. B. Lunger
D. M. Berlinghof D. W. McArthur
F. F. Brace, Jr. A. W. McCain, Jr.
J. S. Carter A. M. McClain
L. G. Creskoff J. R. McHenry
W. A. Dalton C. A. MacIntosh
F. R. Daugette, Jr. G. R. McSpadden, Jr.
R. C. Davies J. W. Marvin, Jr.
W. W. Davis, Jr. H, B. Meador
R. B. Dinkel G. F. Milligan
W. K. Dunker A. R. Mixson
P. Elsaesser J. M. Moreland
J. W. Englishman W. C. Norman, Jr.
D, L. Foster r. 2. Nyce, Jr ie ..
. G. Gibsor . . K. Oas ; .
h o Gea J. R. O'Connell Among alumni fathers whose sons enrolled in September are (seated, l-r) Wit-
R. _ eon Ir 7 7 Bae Ur LIAM H. ARMENTROUT, 97; RICHARD H. HAMILTON, 44; and EDMOND P. LAWRENCE,
H. M. Hollins J. D. Ritter | ‘44. Behind them are their sons, EDMUND; R. H.; JR; and E. P., JR.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

9
©

 

T. G. Rich, Jr.
W. A. Roberts
R. L, Safford
I. Samelson, Jr.

G. Watring
Weimer, Jr.
Whipple
Whitaker
Wilbourn
Winchester
Wisdom, Jr.
ood

Young

» Ae

re

C.
ey
i:
B.
W

a Ge

K.

1958-L 33%

R. G. McCullough, Agent
Number in class: 18

C, W. Gunn, Jr.

. Haynes

. McCullough
Rhea

W. O. Roberts

N. C. Roettger

1959-A 25%

C. DuBose Ausley, Agent
Number in class: 269

C, D. Ausley
P. B. Barker
F. J. Barnes, IIT
D. Bassett, III
. Bohan
Briscoe, Jr.
Broll
. Bryant, III
Buhl
Butler, III
Carter, Jr.
Crabbe
Craycroft
Cummins
Early
Frank
Freeman
Friedlander
Gowenlock, III
Grady
Gwathmey
Halsell, Jr.
Harper
. Harrison
Hattendorf

Spm.
ofa;

ZU mayne yAMWOOY

. Johnson
. Kling
. Koedel, Jr.
; Larimore
LaRue
Lea
Lemon
. Levy, Jr.
. Levy
Lewis

M. McCarthy
R. McKeldin, Jr.
S. Marks, III
. Matthews

. G. Middleton, Jr.
. C. Moeller

. M. Moore

D, Morine

H. Newton

. G. Pannell
EB. Pickett

H. Pixton
R. A. Powell
D. B. Root
E. pee
a . Schenkel

Be sate eeu: oe de Le:
Se

J: H. Williams

1959-L 38%

Owen A. Neff, Agent
Number in class: 21

FALL 1964

Abitt, Jr.
Carter

. Frith, Jr.
Griffin
Kaufman
Neff
Swope
Topping

HoomyHaas
BEPrNOUS

1960-A 33%

A. Prescott Rowe, Agent
Number in class: 288

J. Aberson
S. Allen

H. Alley

D. Applefeld
S. Banks

H. Belden, Jr.
L. Blane
Blank, II

H. Blond
Blundin

P. Boldrick
H. Brown

G. Buffum, III
B. Burton
S. Butts, III
E. Calhoun
W. Clark, Jr.
. H. Clark, Jr.
E. Collett

T. Cook
Cotrell

R. Davidson

C. Flannagan, Jr.

EK. Gaut, Jr.

W. Gilliam, Jr.
Glaser

O. Goode

. H. Gowen, Jr.

J. I. Greene

W. P. Greene, Jr.
Grinnell

Groner

N. Hardin

J. Haun

P. Hawkins

J. Herrmann

E. Hess

W. Hickam

. C. Hinkel

B. Hoke, Jr.

B. Holt

Hutchins

S. Kaufmann

K. Kent, Jr.

M. Kirk

. E. Knickerbocker, Jr.
'D. Knowlton

J. Lee

. R. Lemon

. B. Leonard
. K. Lipscomb
at Litton
G. Loeffler
. R. Loutit
B.
(aa,
D.
F.
N

Se ee eae,

McLin
Miller
Mitchell
Motley
ewton
. R. Oakley, Jr.
. L. Patterson, II
R. Plawin
. W. Powell, Jr.
D. Reed, III
Reynolds, Jr.
E. Ringland
. B. Bobertson
. F. Robertson, III
ak Robison, Jr.
K. E. Rohnke
A, P. Rowe

ee ee

T. Touchton
. Waskins

K, Weaver
W. Weingart
P. White

R. K. White, Jr.
W. Williams

H, C. Wolf, Jr.

1960-L 21%

I. N. Smith, Agent
Number in class: 24
G. E. Anthou
S. L. Bare, III
P. Bargamin, III
G. O. Clemens
N. P. Lavelle

I. N. Smith

1961-A 25%

Robert J. Funkhouser, Jr.
gent

Number in class: 284

T. H. Alexander
J. H. Allen, Jr.
Cc. L. Anderson
R, R. Archer
J. W. Atwell, at.

W. T. Buice, III

H. Burford

E. Bush

D. Carothers

_ R. Chamberlain

' §. Claiborne

. W. Conaway

. F. Cook

ok, Cook

de Crater, Jr.

‘Danzansky

W. Davis

_W. Day, III

P. Dagenhardt

. M. Duncan

Eakin

J. Fidler, Jr.

Cc. Foster, IIT

C. Fox

. J. Funkhouser, Jr.

E. Gans

S. Gant, Jr.

. J. Gay, ITI

. V. Giles, Jr.

oT. Gordon

H. Hamersley

L. Hodgdon

. Hollingshead

‘ Humphreys

. R. Johnston

Kingsbury

Kleeman

. E. Kock, Jr.

L. Kuersteiner

. E, McCardell, Jr.

"Mauzy, Jr.

FEF. Meade

F.. Meyers, Jr.

Olds

C. Paterson

E. Purnell, Jr.

. L. Quillen

Ww. Rehmet

D. Rhinesmith

D. Salmon

F.. Sanders

. G, Schmidt

= Schulist
Schwartz, Jr.

* Bhienae

Ww. Sanat Til

es Simpson

H. Smith

H. Soper

M. Strouss

D. Vaughan, Jr.

A. Votaw

W. F. Willes

G. W. Young, Jr.

H. W. Zimmerman

1961-L 38%

Paul H. Coffey, Jr., Agent
Number in class: 26

H. M. Bates

R, J. Berghel

P. X. Bolt

P. H. Coffey, Jr.
W. F. Ford

W. C. Foulke

R. L. Gilliam, IIT
N, A. Lapsley
N. H. Rodriguez
EK. J. Sulzberger, Jr.
W. R. Walsh

GC ee | See aes

1962-A 23%

Charles E. Commander, III
Agent
Number in class: 288

J. Cc. Ambler, Jr.

R. Blakeslee
A, Brown

R. Chernay

F. Chitwood, Jr.
E. Commander, III
M. Corwin
Craven

Cruger

F. Day, Jr.

A. D’Lauro, Jr.
Dunlap

T. D. Ecker
Foreman

D. Freund

A. Galef

R. Goodwin, II
W. Goodwin
C. Hawthorne, Jr.
N. Herndon
L. Hickam

C. Hickey, Jr.
Hipp

K. Hitch

P. Hobbs

D. Holland
Hulbert

H. Hyatt

F. Jackson, III
Kantor

C. Knight

D. Lewis

P. Lindecamp
S. Logan

H. McClure
F.. Macon

A. Martin

E. Melton
Miller

K. Milling

R. Nelson

J. Osborne

. R. Ostergren
K. Paton, Jr.
H. Peard, III
J. R. Phillippe
W. Poyner

A. Pritchard
A. Ratliff
Rifas

W. Rutledge
8. Sagner

B. Sherwood
W. Smith
Spalding

T. Stanley
Suttle

H. Van Sciver
L. Walker, Jr.
H. Wellborn
Whitehead, Jr.
C. Wood

Deb JOS SoHUMT WOON A MOU QO DOP ASO RESTOR MADMAN AAO > QOOMRSO AE:

1962-L 29%

W. Leigh Ansell, Agent
Number in class: 28

L. Carter

G. Farrow, Jr.
L. Feazell

H. Frackelton
W. Ganim

L. Lang
Radis

eeooAmaT

1963-A 28%

William P. Boardman,
Agent
Number in class: 304

. BE. Adelson

. G. Andrew, Jr.
M. Auburn
J. Babcock
P. Barber

M. Bing

. P. Boardman
EB. Bower

Canoe oP

D. S. Campbell

G. Campbell, Jr.
R, Campbell
Carr
. Christian
Cole, Jr.
Cook
Cover
Culley
Distelhorst
Doremus, Jr.
. Douglass
Dowman, IV
Edwards

mB QPHOUr ep

T. Harrell
Harris, Jr.
Hart, Jr.
Harvey, Jr.
Henderson
Henry, Jr.
Holland
Howson
Hughes, Jr.
Jahncke, Jr.
Johnston
Klaas, Jr.

B. Mackenney, III
H. Manson

P. March

L. Mills

C. Montgomery
T. Moore, Jr.

A. Mullin, IIT

A. Northcutt, III
B. Ostroff

L. Peters

G. Price

N. Rains
Renshaw

P. Rideout

H. Roberson

Y. Ronaldson, Jr.
A. Rosenstock
B. Shields

. C, Silver

A. Smith, Jr.
Spencer

L. Stott, Jr.

H. Stull

D, Sussman

C. Swann

O. Thornhill, Jr.
M. Tilman

EK. Tipton

R. Uhlig, II

M. Weimer

B. Wells

L. Wheelock, III
W. Wise

. M. Young, III
W. R. Young, III

AMAR YS SAQUEYIOP SUM eWHOAMSE ES AOS SARA SP TENA DEQ NRO RDA ERO BHOSOONAA

1963-L 19%

Jay W. Johnson, Agent
Number in class: 32

P. H. Boswell
J. L. Howe, III
J. W. Johnson
G. L. Kesten

L. Sargeant, III
F. B. Walker

Classes of ’64, 65, ’66
Number in class: 187

Broadus

M. Candler
S. Croft

. Currie

Doty
Farrar

M. Freed

_ W. Hoiden
“HH. Hollman
L. Keightley
D. Kimbell
. P. Lane, Jr.
W. McKinnon
. Marmion

. A. Noell, Jr.
oR. Oliver
A. Paddock
. M. Powers

. Wallenstein
C. Yost

44H tte a 2

31

CLass NOTES

1897

A Charlottesville, Virginia, genealogist,
Avery H. Reep, has published genealogies
of three widely connected Virginia fami-
lies—Anderson, Peyton, and Reed. Mr.
Reed is a mining engineer and _ practiced
this profession all of his adult life. He
has done a tremendous amount of re-
search in compiling the genealogies. The
Reynolds Company of Charlottesville pub-
lished the books by off-set process.

1899

JAmMes MULLEN, president of the Board of
Trustees at Randolph-Macon College in
Ashland, Virginia, since 1959, resigned
from that position in October. Mr. Mul-
len is eighty-seven years old, and has
been a member of their board since 1930.
Since 1909 he has practiced law in Rich-
mond, Virginia, and during the last
fifteen years he has specialized in tax law.
The Board Room in the new Peale Ad-

 

Dr. J. MORRISON HUTCHESON, ’02

92

ministration Building at  Randolph-

Macon was recently name for Mr. Mullen.

1902

Dr. J. MORRISON HUTCHESON, Rector of the
University Board of Trustees and a prac-
ticing physician in Richmond, Virginia,
has been cited by the American Med-
ical Association for his more than thinty
years service with the organization. Dr.
Hutcheson, a specialist in internal medi-
cine, recently completed his second five-
year term on AMA’s five-man judicial
council, which is sometimes referred to
as the “Supreme Court” of the AMA. It
deals with medical ethics. Dr. Hutche-
son is a former chief of medicine at the
Johnston-Willis Hospital in Richmond
and is vice-president of the hospital’s
board of directors.

1909

At the end of the academic year 1963-64,
Levi THomMAs WILSON was retired from

 

Harry E. MARTIN, ’24

Jacksonville (Florida) University with the
title “Professor Emeritus of Physics.” Dr.
and Mrs. Wilson will reside in St. Peters-
burg, Florida.

1913

Dr. PAuL D. CoNnvERSE is completing the
seventh revision of his popular book,
Elements of Marketing. He is also work-
ing on a manuscript, My Fifty Years in
Marketing. Since retiring from teaching,
he still lives in Urbana, Illinois.

1920

Attorney JosepH M. GLICKSTEIN was elect-
ed to the board of directors of the Bar-
nett National Bank of Jacksonville, Flori-
da, in November. A native of Jacksonville,
he has been a member of the Florida
Bar since 1920. Mr. Glickstein is the senior
partner of the firm of Glickstein, Cren-
shaw, Glickstein and Hulsey. A resident
of Neptune Beach, he is on the executive
board of the Union American Hebrew
Congregations. |

192]

J. Hock 'T. SUTHERLAND is moving from
Clintwood, Virginia, to Abingdon, Vir-
ginia. Mr. Sutherland has served 41 years
in Virginia public schools, 26 of these
years as superintendent of Dickenson
County Schools.

1922

The new president of the American Col-
lege of Dentists is Dk. Harry Lyons, Dean
of the School of Dentistry at the Medical
College of Virginia. Previously Dr. Lyons
has served as president of the American
Dental Association and the American As-
sociation of Dental Schools. ‘Thus he is
one of three men ever to serve as national
president of all three major organiza-

 

CARL B. KNIGHT, ’26

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

tions of dentists. Dr. Lyons attended
public schools in Lexington, Virginia,
before entering Washington and Lee. He
received his dental surgery degree from
Medical College of Virginia. He has been
on the faculty of MCV for over forty
years. In addition to many national com-
mittees, Dr. Lyons has been a consultant
to the Veterans Administration's central
office in Washington, the McGuire Hos-
pital, the Council on Federal Government
Dental Services, and the Council on
Dental Education.

1924

The Chief Dispatcher for the Electric
Division of the Memphis Light, Gas and
Water Division retired July 31st, after
48 years of service. He is Harry E. Mar-
TIN, who first started working in the
transformer department in 1913. He inter-
rupted his employment in 1920 to attend
Washington and Lee University and later
M.1.T. A native Memphian, Mr. Martin
is a member of the Engineers Club of
Memphis.

1926

Cart B. Knicut, publisher of The Post
at Big Stone Gap, Virginia, has been
elected a director of the Interstate Rail-
road Company, a subsidiary of the South-
ern Railway System. He is past president
of the Virginia Press Association. Mr.
Knight was retired August 4th by the
Air Force Reserve. He has served as
Commanding Officer of Flight F of the
g48ist Air Reserve Squadron.

Dr. CHARLES W. Lowry is the author of
the internationally known book, Com-
munise and Christ. Three of his address-
es on this subject have won awards from
the Freedom Foundation. In 1953 Dr.
Lowry resigned as rector of Washington’s
largest Episcopal parish to devote full
time to writing and lecturing in the field
of religion and public affairs. He is pres-
ently president of the Foundation for
Religious Action in the Social and Civil
Order. He recently appeared before the
House Judiciary Committee in connec-
tion with the Supreme Court ruling on
the matter of school prayer.

Emmetr W. MAcCorKLE, JR., is enjoying
life in the San Francisco Bay Area. He is
president of Air Reduction Pacific Com-
pany, a division of Air Reduction, Inc.

1927

Watton H. BacHracH, Mayor of Cincin-
nati was the recipient of Zeta Beta ‘Tau
fraternity’s National Presidents’ Plaque.
The award is given to the fraternity’s
alumnus of the year and was presented
to Mayor Bachrach at the fraternity’s
66th Anniversary banquet in French Lick,
Indiana. After attending Washington and
Lee, he received his law degree from the
University of Cincinnati. He then served
for many years as a member of the City
Council and was elected Mayor in 1961

FALL 1964

 

JoHN, ’31, and SrorEY STEMMONS, '27L

The Stemmons Brothers of Dallas
Are Industrial Leaders of the City

w IN DALLAS industrial leadership is
reflected in the story of the Stem-
mons brothers.

L. STOREY STEMMONS, law class of
1927, and JOHN STEMMONS, academ-
ic ’31, took up and expanded the
work of their father, the late Leshe
Allison Stemmons. ‘The family has
been working hard at harnessing
the Trinity River behind levees and
developing the vast wasted acreage
in the flood plain as valuable in-
dustrial property.

The brothers, whose accomplish-
ments are legend, seldom see each
other, yet they have worked to-
gether in splendid cooperation.
Storey is Board Chairman of Indus-
trial Properties Corporation and
handles sales and leasing of proper-
ty. John is president, handling de-

velopment and planning. Both the
Stemmonses have been officers and
contributors in most of the Dallas
civic, charitable, and professional
projects. This year John is heading
the influential Dallas Citizens
Council, to do what he can for the
betterment of what he endearingly
refers to as “The Village.”
Attesting to their success is their
pet project, the Trinity Industrial
District’s 1,200 acres which are al-
most filled with plants of outstand-
ing national firms. One of their big-
gest dreams is Trinity Navigation.
The brothers are confident the river
will be serving barge traffic from
Dallas-Ft. Worth to the Gulf of

-Mexico by 1970. Their past record

makes a strong case for the feasi-
bility of this project.

33

and re-elected in 1963. Mayor Bachrach
has served as National Vice-President
and Central Regional Director for Zeta
Beta Tau.

J. ARTHUR SMITH, JR., of Monroe, Louis-
iana, has been in the life insurance busi-
ness for thirty-four years, twenty of these
years with the Prudential Company. He
is a member of the Prudential President's
Club and the only C.L.U. in northeast
Louisiana. Mr. Smith is currently serving
as vice-chairman of the Monroe Housing
Authority and vice-president of the Louis-
iana Association of Life Underwriters.

1928

After serving twenty years, F. CHURCHILL
MeLLen has recently retired as Director of
Law and City Attorney of the City of
Pensaccla, Florida. At the time of his
retirement he had the longest tenure of
office of any city attorney in the State of
Florida. Prior to his appointment to the
city attorneyship, he had served as as-
sistant solicitor for Escambia County,
Florida, and as U.S. Referee in Bank-
ruptcy for the Northern District of Flori-
da. The Mellens have two children and
reside in Pensacola.

At the meeting of the Board of Directors
in August, 1964, North Penn Gas Com-
pany announced the election of FRANKLIN
B. Gi_more as president. Mr. Gilmore has
served as executive vice-president, secre-
tary and general council of the company
for the past ten years. Hearquarters for
the company is Port Alleghany, Pennsyl-
vania.

1929

Lewis F. Powe tt, JR., has been elected to
the Board of Directors of the Philip Mor-
ris Company. Mr. Powell, who is a part-
ner in the Richmond (Va.) law firm of
Hunton, Williams, Gay, Powell and Gib-
son, has had a distinguished legal career
and is currently serving as president of
the American Bar Association.

After a thirty-three year gap in pursuing
his higher education, FRANK PARKER, Jr.
returned to the halls of learning and re-
ceived a master’s degree in library science
at Florida State University in December,
1963. Mr. Parker is now associated with
the Public Library in St. Petersburg,
Florida.

1930

Ropert EARLE Capp, JR., was appointed
by the Governor of Maryland to Associate
Judge for the 6th Judicial Circuit in
Frederick, Maryland.

1933

A Roanoke attorney and former Mayor,
RicHArD TT. Epwarps, has been endorsed
by Gov. Albertis Harrison for judgeship
of the Roanoke Hustings Court to suc-
ceed Judge Kuyk who retired September
1, 1964. Confirmation of the appointment

34

must come from the legislature. Dick
and JOHN COPENHAVER, a Classmate at
Washington and Lee, have been law part-
ners in Roanoke since 1935.

In addition to his professional activities

as president of the Association of New
Jersey State College Faculties and Chair-
man of the College Salary Committee,
Cuartes J. Loncacre has recently been
appointed to the New Jersey Higher Edu-
cation Committee. With all of this activ-

 

Ricnarp K. Stuart, ’37, right, congratulated by Grorcr C. DENNY, deputy director of
the State Department’s Bureau of Intelligence and Research.

Richard K. Stuart, °37, Recevves
Citation from State Department

m™ EACH YEAR in June the Depart-
ment of State carefully evaluates
the performance of its employees in
the Foreign Service posts. Awards
are presented publicly by the De-
partment of State for those who are
selected.

RicHARD K. STUART, ’37, Was pre-
sented a Superior Service Honor
Award at the ceremonies held in
Washington, D.C., and presided
over by Secretary of State Dean
Rusk. The citation which accom-
panied his award read in part “For

keen insight into current affairs,
penetrating ability to analyze,
sound judgment, and_ effective
powers of exposition and persua-
sion in working with high-level of-
ficers of the Department and mem-
bers of the Intelligence Commun-
ity.”

Prior to entering government
service, Mr. Stuart taught at Turn-
ers Falls High School and was
principal of the Montague School
in Montague, Massachusetts. He is
married to the former Nancy Owen
and the couple have three children.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

ity, he and his wife, Helen, decided on
a vacation trip and during the summer
made an extended freighter voyage around
the Caribbean, One of the highlights of
the trip was a voyage on an ore carrier
to the bauxite mines in Surinam.

1935

CrorcE E. Crisp was recently elected pres-

 

Cyrus V. ANDERSON, 738

ident of Fred J. Crisp, Inc., which sells
and installs specialized building products
in Akron, Ohio.

1936

The Chesapeake and Ohio Railway has
announced the appointment of CHARLES
P. ANDERSON as special representative in
the coal traffic and development depart-
ment with headquarters in Huntington.
Anderson has been active in sales operat-
ing department of the coal industry.

KENNETH P. LANE, owner of Lange & Crist
of Emporia, Virginia, has recently been
named director of Sales and Research of
the American Box Company. In the mer-
ger transaction, American Box, a division
of Altamil Corporation of Indianapolis,
Indiana, took over the operations of Lange
& Crist. Ken and his wife, Zoe, have moved
to McComb, Mississippi. ‘The headquarters
for American Box Company is in Fern-
wood, Mississippi.

PAUL G. HERVEY is completing his second
year as Director of Counseling and Test-
ing at Del Mar College in Corpus Christi,
Texas. This summer he taught two
graduate courses in counseling and_ psy-
chology at the University of Houston.

1938

Cyrus V. ANDERSON has' been elected
chairman of the Section of Antitrust Law,

FALL 1964

American Bar Association, for the com-
ing year. Succeeding to the chairmanship
at the Antitrust Section’s 13th Annual
Meeting, Mr. Anderson is only the second
corporate law department counsel to re-
ceive the section’s highest office. He has
been associated with Pittsburgh Plate
Glass Company’s law department since
1945 and has served as associate general
counsel since 1960. Mr. Anderson is

 

WILLIAM M. READ, ‘40

nationally known as an authority on Anti-
trust Law and served for two years as
a member of the Attorney General’s Na-
tional Committee to study the Antitrust
laws. Subsequently he served as chairman
of the Sherman Act Committee of the
American Bar Association Antitrust Sec-
tion and last year as vice-chairman of the
organization.

FRANK Leip Price, formerly with the
F.B.I. for many years, has retired from
this agency and accepted a position as
Consultant to Mr. James S. Copley and
the Copley Press, Inc. Mr. Copley is the
publisher of sixteen newspapers and_ is
head of the Copley News Service. Frank’s
office will be located in La Jolla, Cali-
fornia.

ArNoLD H. Uccta of Lynchburg was in-
stalled as president of the Old Dominion
Purchasing Agents Association during a
meeting in July. Mr. Uggla is manager of
purchasing for the General Electric Co.’s
Communication Products Department in
Lynchburg.

ROBERT EDWARD SURLES is a member of the
Georgia, 1964, delegation of Business and
Professional People to People Goodwill
Mission. ‘The group plans to visit Russia
and adjacent Communist countries dur-
ing the summer.

1939

THomas W. Moses, a member of the

Alumni Board of Trustees, has just been
elected chairman of the board of the Na-
tional City Bank of Minneapolis. The
bank is relatively new and recently re-
ported deposits of more than $10 million.
Tom is president of the First Interocean-
ic Corporation, a Minneapolis-based inter-
national investment firm.

1940

Having joined the Atlantic Refining
Company in 1943, Wit~t1AM McCLAIN
READ has just been named Director of the
Personnel Development and Safety Divi-
sion. Bill has held numerous _ positions
with Atlantic including director of per-
sonnel training and development. He is
a member of the American Society of
Training Directors and is author of the
book entitled ““Now You are A Supervisor”
which was published in 1962. He and his
wife and two daughters live in Media,
Pennsylvania.

A. Mack WING is a lawyer and partner
in the firm of Harris, Wing, Clark &
Green in St. Petersburg, Florida. The
Wings have three children, one girl and
two boys.

After graduating from Missouri Law
School and three and a half years in the
service, JACK C. Jones became clerk for
Federal Judge Collet in Kansas City,
Missouri. He followed the judge to Wash-
ington, D.C., and was a legal consultant
in the Office of War Mobilization and Re-
conversion. Jack returned to Carrollton,
Missouri, his home, and became prose-
cuting attorney until 1954 when he de-
cided to run on the Democratic ticket
for the Missouri Senate. He is now serving
in his third four-year term. Recently
Jack was appointed the new referee in
bankruptcy for Western Missouri, which
appointment will become effective in
September, 1965.

Since the war JOHN S. BROOME has been
in the ranching business in Ventura and
Bakersfield areas in the state of Califor-
nia. His operation produces beef cattle,
Sunkist lemons, lima beans, tomatoes
and other products. Jack is currently serv-
ing on several agricultural boards of di-
rectors as well as on the board for the
Conejo Savings and Loan Association and
the Advisory Board for the Bank of
America. Flying has been Jack’s chief
hobby. Last summer he participated in
the Trans-Pacific Yacht race. He is active
as well in the Navy League, the Califor-
nia State Chamber of Commerce, and
many other civic organizations.

194]

A resident of Salem and a lawyer in
Fincastle, WILLIAM C. BRECKINRIDGE has
been named assistant U.S. Attorney for
the Western District of Virginia. His
appointment fills a vacancy caused by
the recent resignation of LAWRENCE B.

35

MusGROVE, ’54. Bill served as an Air Force
group intelligence’ officer throughout
World War II and was discharged with
the rank of major. He has been chairman
of the Fincastle district of the Botetourt
County Democratic Committee and was a
member of the Virginia delegation to the
Democratic National Convention in 1960.

JAck LANE REITER is now Chairman of
the Board of the Cincinnati Stock Ex-
change.

A small business investment company,
Capital for ‘Technical Industries, Inc., has
announced that ‘THEODORE A. BRUINSMA
has been elected executive vice-president
and director. Ted received his M.B.A.
and his LL.B. from Harvard, and after
World War II was an attorney in New
York City for several years. From 1955-
57 he was general counsel and secretary
for McCall Corporation, after which he
served as president and chief executive
officer for an electronic data processing
equipment manufacturer. Since 1961, he
has represented major corporations in
financial planning and fiscal control. He
and his wife and their four children live
in Rolling Hills, California.

ROBERT C. PETREY has been named assist-
ant general superintendent at Tennessee
Eastman Company in Kingsport, Tennes-
see, a division of Eastman Kodak Com-
pany. Mr. Petrey, who is a_ chemical
engineer, joined Eastman in 1943. He is a
past director of the American Institute
of Professional Engineers and a member
of Sigma Xi honorary fraternity. At
Eastman he will assist in the following
divisions: Filter Products, Kodel polyester
fiber, and Plastic Processing.

The University of Delaware has named
‘THOMAS W. BROCKENBROUGH as Assistant
Dean of the Engineering School.

F. SyDNOR KIRKPATRICK, executive officer
of Western Extermination Company, is
presently serving as chairman of the Safety
Committee of the National Pest Control
Association.

1943

Dr. J. MORRISON HUTCHESON, JR., has been
promoted to associate medical director of
The Life Insurance Company of Virginia.
A native of Richmond, Virginia, Dr.
Hutcheson received his medical degree
from the University of Virginia School of
Medicine. He joined The Life of Virginia
in 1958. Dr. Hutcheson is a member of
the American Medical Association, Rich-
mond Academy of Medicine, American
College of Physicians and the Association
of Life Insurance Medical Directors.

E. F. Ross, Jr., has earned his mem-
bership in the 1964 President’s Club of
the National Life Insurance Company of
Vermont. The membership recognizes
outstanding achievement in client service
and sales. Robb is prominent in local and
state circles. Among his community ac-

36

 

Dr. Ropsins L. GATEs, ’44

tivities he is presently the Metropolitan
Planning Commissioner for Minneapolis.

1944

Dr. Roppins L. GATES announces the pub-
lication of a new book entitled “The
Making of Massive Resistance: Virginia’s
Politics of Public School Desegration,
1954-56.” This book is put out by the
University of North Carolina Press. Dr.
Gates is the dean at Fairfax Hall in Way-
nesboro, Virginia.

The formation of a new company under
the name of Aquarium Systems, Inc., has
taken place in Cleveland. Roperr H.
Moore, JR., is secretary and advises that

the organization is building an “ocean-

arium,” at Niagara Falls. While Bob lives

RICHARD C. VIERBUCHEN, 748

 

 

 

in Cleveland, the headquarters for the
new company is in Wickliffe, Ohio.

In recognition of outstanding service to
boyhood, Washington advertising-public
relations executive EARLE PALMER BROWN
received the Silver Beaver Award from the
Boy Scouts of America at the National
Capital Area Council’s annual awards
dinner on June 16th. The same award
was also presented to Admiral Burke,
USN retired, and to Mr. James B. Mor-
rison, President of the Council’s Execu-
tive Board.

CHARLES B. JACKSON was promoted to
lieutenant-colonel in the Illinois National
Guard in May. He still holds the position
of vice president and assistant superin-
tendent of Western Military Academy in
Alton, Illinois.

Dr. Lroyp H. Smiru, Jr., has been elect-
ed as a foreign affiliate of the Royal So-
ciety of Medicine and member of the As-
sociation of American Physicians. He is
a professor of medicine and chief of the
Medical Center at the University of Cal-
ifornia in San Francisco.

1945

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WALTER EDWARD
FRYE, a son, Jonathan Robert, on October
23, 1964. The Fryes make their home in
Goleta, California, where Walter is a
teacher in the high school.

Dr. JoseEpH H. MAGEE has been named an
assistant professor of medicine at Jefter-
son Medical College of Philadelphia and
a research associate in the Clinical Re-
search Center.

1946

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Donatp R. Mox-
HAM, a son Douglas Scott, on April 21,
1964. Friends of the Moxhams will be
saddened to know that their fifteen-year-
old son, Donald Robert, Jr., died on
August 28, 1964. ‘The Moxhams live in
Upper Montclair, New Jersey.

In Tokyo for the Olympics, HANEs LAN-
CASTER and his daughter, Polly, met class-
mate Jerry Greenberg. Hanes plans to
visit Bangkok, Calcutta, Cairo, Rome,
Geneva, Paris and London _ before re-
turning home.

B. BreNT BREEDIN, JR., has been named
university editor at Clemson University
in Clemson, South Carolina. Brent is a
product information specialist and has
been in the Public Relations Department
of the duPont Company in Wilmington,
Delaware, formerly in the publicity office
of Clemson University, and more recently
the editor and publisher of the South
Carolinian in Washington, D.C.

1948

RICHARD CARL VIERBUCHEN has _ been
elected Vice-president of Marketing for
the Washington Gas Light Company. Dick
began his career with the company in

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

RussELL D. HUFFMAN, ‘49

1g;0 as a financial cadet. ‘Ten years later
he was appointed Director of Sales and
was considered one of the youngest men
in this position with any major gas utili-
ty in the country. He was honored by the
Junior Chamber of Commerce in 1956 by
being named Jaycee’s “Man of the Year.”
In 1963 Dick received the “Marketing
Man of the Year Award” from the D.C.
Chapter of the American Marketing Asso-
ciation and also the Presidential Citation
from the National Association of Home
Builders for his builder promotion pro-
eram, the most outstanding in the nation.
Dick is a member of the Washington
Building Congress, the Sales and Market-
ing Executive Club, Washington Board
of Realtors, and the Associated Builders
and Contractors, Inc. He and his wife,
Robin, live in Bethesda with their four

children.
1949

EMMETT STEWART EPLEy, vice-president of
the Alumni Association, has joined the
American Metal Climax, Inc., as corpor-
ate Director of Budgets and Reports.
With headquarters in New York, the
company and its affiliates have annual
sales of over $700,000,000. It is engaged
in mining, processing, fabricating, and
marketing of metal and mineral pro-
ducts such as molybdenum, potash, cop-
per, oil and aluminum.

As of November, 1963, Roperr R. REID,
Jr., has been a partner in the Birming-
ham, Alabama, law firm of Bradley, Arant,
Rose and White.

RussELL D. HUFFMAN has been promoted
to purchasing stores representative in
Shell Oil Company’s Head Office Purchas-
ing-Stores Department in New York City.
Mr. Huffman joined Shell as a clerk in
its Purchasing Stores Organization in
1949. Before his promotion he served as
manager, Purchasing-Stores at Shell De-

FALL 1964

 

EK. STEWART EPLEY, ’49

velopment Company’s Exploration and
Research Division in Houston, ‘Texas.

CHARLES R. TREADGOLD is Agent Training
Manager for the Nationwide Insurance
Companies on the Sales Staff. The Tread-
golds live in Columbus, Ohio, and have
a son nine years old and twin boys four
years old.

1950

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Russe. I. ‘(THOMEs,
Jr., a son, Peter Carlisle, on June 16, 1964.
Russ is merchandising manager for Four
Roses Distillers in New York City. The
Thomes also have a daughter.

Gerry U. STEPHENS, Vice President of the
American National Bank and Trust Com-
pany of Chattanooga, ‘Tennessee, was
eraduated in June from the Stonier
Graduate School of Banking which is
conducted by the American Bankers As-
sociation at Rutgers University. Gerry
was one of 268 bankers from all sections
of the United States who were members
of the class of 1964. The Stonier School,
founded in 1935, is one of the world’s
outstanding schools for graduate study
in the field of banking and finance. In
order to qualify, Stephens attended three
two-week summer sessions, completed two
years of intensive extension work at home
and wrote an original thesis on “Financ-
ing the Tufted ‘Textile Industry.” Gerry
is president of the Chattanoga Chapter
of the American Institute of Banking, is
active in several civic and business or-
ganizations, and is president of the alumni
chapter of Washington and Lee.

ALBERT H. HAMEL, associated with the
law firm of Kerth, Theis & Schreiber of
Clayton, Missouri, was awarded the Roy
F. Essen Annual Award as the outstand-
ing young lawyer of the St. Louis, Mis-
souri, area this past May. ‘The award was
made at the annual dinner of the St.
Louis County Bar Association and is made

by a committee headed by the presiding
Judge of the Court of Appeals. Following
the presentation, Hap was also named
treasurer for the coming year for the
Association. Hap, a former assistant U.S.
attorney for the eastern district of Mis-
souri, has served as chairman of the
speakers bureau committee, as adminis-
trative assistant to Congressman ‘Tom Cur-
tis, and is a member of the Big Brothers,
Inc. He is also chairman of land clear-
ance for the Redevelopment Authority,
chairman of the human relations advisory
committee, and chairman of the citizens
cominittee for community improvement in
St. Louis County.

Howarp W. STEELE has accepted a_ posi-
tion as Associate Professor in Agricul-
tural Economics at Ohio State University,
beginning September 1, 1964. His first
assignment, however, is for two years
at Sao Paulo State College of Agricul-
ture in Piracicaba, Brazil.

1951

After three years in Montreal, FREDERIC
J. AHERN has returned to New York as
vice-president of The United Corporation.
He also holds the title of President of
Unicorp of Canada, Ltd., a wholly-owned
subsidiary of The United Corporation. He
and his family are now living in Darien,
Connecticut.

FRANK H. SIMMONS is now a_ registered
representative with E. F. Hutton and
Company, Inc., dealers in securities, Frank
and his family make their home in San
Marino, California.

The only Democrat of the four newly
elected members of the School Board in
Caddo Parish (Shreveport, Louisiana) is
PIKE HALL, Jr. He will serve a six year
term. Hall, a Shreveport attorney, has
long been active in civic affairs having
served on the Boy Scout Council, the
board of the Community Council, and as
director of the Shreveport Chamber of
Commerce and Jaycees.

SAMUEL D. EGGLESTON, JR., iS practicing
law in Norfolk, Virginia, with the firm
of Worthington, White & Harper. His
partner, LUTHER W. WHITE, is the class
of 1949. Sam and his wife have two boys
and a girl.

Witson H. LEAR was chairman this year
for the Greenville (S.C.) Home Show.
He is branch manager for U.S. Plywood
Corporation but finds time for many

civic affairs. Wilson is on the board of
‘directors of the Rotary Club and in

charge of their night baseball club; he
is on the board of the Greenville Home
Builders Association, the ways and means
committee for the P..T.A., and chairman
of the Distinguished Service Awards
Night. He and his wife, Jane, have two
sons and a daughter.

1952

GRAFTON H. Cook was elected President

37

 

Joun D. MALEy, ’52

of the Indiana Hardwood Lumbermen’s
Association for the year 1964.

After five years of sales experience, PAUL
D. WeiLt has been named agency super-
visor for Aetna Life Insurance Company
in the Garden City, Long Island, area.
The new member of the agency’s manage-
ment staff is a winner of the National
Quality Award for outstanding service.

Joun D. MALEy, county judge in Okmul-
gee, Oklahoma, since 1962 sought re-
election in November. M aley, a Democrat,
was unopposed in this campaign. Judge
Maley has practiced law in Okmulgee
since his release from the U.S. Air Force
in 1959. He continues his Air Force Re-
serve commission.

1953

WILLIAM EMERSON Brock, III, young vice-
president of the Brock Candy Company,
has been elected to his second term in
Congress. At the time of his first victory,
he was the first Republican congressman
elected in ‘Tennessee’s third Congressional
District (Chattanooga) for nearly a quar-
ter of a century. Before Bill was sent to
Congress, he was active in civic work in
Chattanooga where he served as a vice-
president and director of the Jaycees, as
a director of the Better Business Bureau,
chairman of the Chamber of Commerce
public affairs committee, on the Citizens
Committee for Better Schools, and on the
committee for the Chattanooga Area
Literacy Movement. He has held many
posts in local, state, and national Re-
publican organizations.

WILLIAM M. HO tis, JR., has become as-
sistant professor of English at Drexel
Institute of ‘Technology in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. In 1953 he was a Fulbright
Scholar in Belgium and then later attend-
ed Princeton. Prior to joining the Drexel
staff in 1960 as an instructor, he was a
visiting lecturer at Florida Southern Col-

38

 

 

JOHN R. TERNEY, JR., 53

lege and an instructor of English at
Dartmouth.

Formerly an assistant account manager
for Lando Advertising Agency in Erie,
Pennsylvania, JOHN R. ‘TeERNEyY has now
joined the Pittsburgh staff of Marsteller,
Inc., as account executive.

1954

RICHARD ‘Tl. HARBISON, who has served as
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
of Canton, Mississippi, for the past six
years, became the pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church of Lexington, Ken-
tucky, in September. Dick and Cornelia
have three children: Taylor, seven; Mark,
five, and Cornelia, two.

LAWRENCE CRADDOCK Muscrove, former
assistant U.S. Attorney in Roanoke, Vir-

Davip M. CLINGER, ’55

 

 

ginia, has resigned to return to private
practice. He is not expected to be a mem-
ber of any law firm but will share office
space with another attorney in the Shen-
andoah Building. Before his U.S. appoint-
ment, Musgrove had served as treasurer,
vice president and president of the Young
Democratic Club of Roanoke.

1955

BORN: Mr. and Mrs, CHARLES H. Now-
LIN, a son, William Charles, on October 1,
1964. Charlie is a devices specialist in the
Basic Instrumentation Group of Union
Carbide, Nuclear Division in Oak Ridge,
‘Tennessee.

Boyp CLopron wrote advertising copy in
Richmond, Virginia, for eighteen months
in the late fifties and then followed this
same line in New York for a time. The
appeal of the West Coast brought him
to California and, with a B.S.A. degree
from R.P.I. (Richmond) and a_ talent
and background of sketching, he began
working in the film industry. This quick-
ly led to a designing job in the fashion
world. Boyd has developed a_ definite
fashion philosophy which carries over
into his use of color and material—dash,
color, movement, easy wearability. He is
now the designer for Loubella Originals
of California.

DONALD E. J. Srewarr has been appointed
a career Foreign Service officer by Presi-
dent Johnson, the State Department an-
nounced in September. The appointment
makes him a Vice Consul and a Secretary
in the Diplomatic Service. Don has recent-
ly been an Assistant Editor at the Li-
brary of Congress. He is presently at-
tending the Foreign Service Institute in
Arlington, Virginia, in preparation for
an overseas assignment.

Before jcining Reynolds Metals Company,
Davip M. CLINGER worked for newspapers
in Williamsport, Pennsylvania, Fredericks-
burg, Virginia, and Paris, France. Leaving
the staff of the Richmond Times Dispatch,
he joined the Reynolds Company in 1957
in the public relations department. An
announcement has been made that David
has been named regional public relations
manager for Reynolds in the Chicago
area. Prior to this assignment David was
public relations manager in Richmond,
Virginia. He is a member of the Public
Relations Society of. America and of Sig-
ma Delta Chi, professional journalism
fraternity.

Dr. RicHARD W. BANK has established an
office for the practice of gynecology and
obstetrics in Beverly Hills, California.

1956

After three years in Waterbury, Connec-
ticut, as employee relations supervisor at
the Small ‘Tube Division of the Anaconda
American Brass Company, JOHN J. Popu-
LAR has been promoted by the company

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

to Employee Relations Manager of the
Buffalo, New York, Division. Formerly of
Williamsburg, Virginia, John and_ his
family now live on Grand Island near
Buffalo, where he is in charge of the
labor relations for the division which
has over 1,000 employees.

‘The former assistant director of the In-
ternship ‘Teaching Program at Emory
University, Dk SAMUEL A. SYME, JR., has
been named director of teacher education
at the North Carolina Advancement
School in Winston-Salem. The Advance-
ment School is a residential facility de-
signed to help students of good poten-
tial but poor achievement. It will also
devise and evaluate new ways of teaching
which can be adapted for use in the
regular public school classrooms of the
state.

REUBEN B. JONES finished at ‘T. C. Wil-
liams, the University of Richmond Law
School, in February, 1964. He is now prac-
ticing with the firm of Marshall & Bla-
lock in Newport News.

PETER JAcoBs is associated with the Book
Metals Corporation of New York City.

1957

MARRIED: WituiaAmM A. G. BoyLe and
Ann Moncrieff Delafield were married on
May 23, 1964, in St. Luke’s Episcopal
Church in Darien, Connecticut. Bill is
the general manager of the family’s four
retail stores in Pembroke, Bermuda.

MARRIED: LAWRENCE BEARDEN CLARK
and Nancy Kate Woolley were married in
Birmingham, Alabama, on July 18, 1964.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. ALFRED J. MAGOLINE,
a son, Steve Alfred, on June 24, 1964. Fred
is a resident physician with the Depart-
ment of Otolaryngology at Walter Reed
Hospital in Washington, D.C.

CHARLES F. Davis, JR., is in the overseas
division of the First National City Bank
of New York as a representative in Manila.
He writes that he is to have an eighteen-
month trip to visit the bank’s branches
in India.

After release from four years in the
Marine Corps, a large part of which was
spent in Hawaii, DONALD C. SPANN went to
Prudential Leasing Company in Houston,
Texas. In 1963 Don moved his family to
Greenville, S. C., where he is presently
General Manager of Wunda Weve Leas-
ing Company, a subsidiary of Wunda
Weve Carpet Company. He is married to
the former Miss “Bee Jay” McQueen and
the couple have a son, six, and a daughter
three years old.

1958

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Farris P. HOTCHKISS,
a daughter, Julie, on January 29, 1964.
Farris is presently the sales manager for
Foote and Davies, a division of McCall

FALL 1964

Corporation in Atlanta, Georgia. He is
chairman of the Key Club of his Kiwanis
Club, president of the local Washington
and Lee Alumni Chapter, and for the
past five years has been district chief
of Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. SAMUEL C, DUDLEY,
a son, Samuel, Jr., on July 21, 1964. Sam,
Sr., formerly with Chemical Bank of New
York, is now with the Investment Cor-
poration of Virginia, specializing in mu-
nicipal bonds. The family resides in
Virginia Beach, Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES G. CRAW-
ford, a son, Scott Charles, on June 17,
1964. The couple, living in Brooklyn,
New York, have another son, ‘Tracy.

Harry Moses is back in New York City
where he is Director of Promotion and
Station Services with Metro TV Sales, a
division of Metromedia.

CHARLES PHiLIr Corn served four years
in the Marine Corps and then in August
of 1964 received his master’s degree in
English from George Washington Univer-
sity. He has recently been named an
instructor in English at the American
University in Washington, D.C.

Rogpert L. NEUNREITER recently joined the
Gardner Advertising Company at their
main office in St. Louis, Missouri, as a
radio and television buyer.

After Graduatte School of Business at Syra-
cuse University, Davin G. NosBLe joined
the Syracuse branch of Deere & Com-
pany, manufacturers of industrial and
agricultural equipment. Dave completed
an extensive training program and has
been assigned as Territory Sales Manager
with headquarters in Williamsport, Penn-
sylvania. He is one of twenty-three sales
managers responsible for Deere sales in
nine northeastern states.

1959

MARRIED: Tuomas H. Broavus, Jr., and
Elizabeth A. Harshberger were married on
August 15, 1964. Tom was released from
active duty with the Navy in July with
the rank of heutenant.

MARRIED: Rosert R. KANE and Sandra
Lee Behn of Arlington, Virginia, were
married on June 13, 1964. The couple will
live in Alexandria, Virginia. Bob is em-
ployed by the General Services Adminis-
tration in Washington, D.C.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp Dour Bris-
COE, JR., a son, Ennis Oakes, on April 4,
1964, in Little Rock, Arkansas. Corky
is an attorney with the Arkansas Depart-
ment of Revenue. The Briscoes also have
a daughter three years old and a son two
years old. |

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Amzi BARBER, a
daughter, Mary Louise Temple, on June
4. 1964. ‘The family, now consisting of
two daughters and a son, lives in Penns-

burg, Pennsylvania, where Amzi is a
teacher at Perkiomen, a boys’ preparatory
school.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ALEXANDER S. MaAc-
Nass, a daughter, Helen Marie, on July
24, 1964, at Bridgewater, New York.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Dwicur L. Guy, a
son, Dwight, Jr., on June 9, 1964. After
a temporary residence in Sweden the
Guys have returned to the United States
and have settled in Seattle, Washington,
where Dwight has begun the practice of
law with the firm of Bogle, Bogle, and
Gates.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. Kotz, a
son, David, on July 14, 1964, in Manches-
ter, England. John received his Ph.D. in
chemistry from Cornell University in 1963
and is now doing post-doctoral work at
the University of Manchester. The family
expects to return to the States this year.

ALAN B. OsHer graduated from the Uni-
versity of Cincinnati Medical School in
July and is presently serving his military
obligation in the Navy as a doctor aboard
a troop transport.

ARTHUR SANDERS GROVE, JR., completed his
internship at the Johns Hopkins Hospital
in July, 1964. He is now a clinical asso-
ciate in neurology at the National In-
stitutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland.
He plans to begin his neurosurgery resi-
dency in 1966.

Evan J. Kemp, Jr., passed the exams for
the Ohio State Bar Association after he
received his law degree from the Uni-
versity of Virginia last June. In October
he started to work as an attorney with
the Office of the Chief Counsel, Internal
Revenue Service, in Washington, D.C.

Henry H. HEcut, Jr., has been appointed
Assistant Director of the new Washington
Museum of African Art in Washington,
D.C. Formerly Henry was an adminis-
trative assistant on the staff of the Cor-
coran Gallery. He returned recently from
an eight-months tour of thirteen foreign
countries during which he lectured at
various museums and _ universities on
American art and contemporary sculpture
and gathered material for several articles
concerned with developments in the con-
temporary arts of the countries visited.
Henry is himself a collector of contem-
porary painting, sculpture, and graphic
art, and his collection has been on dis-
play at the University of Virginia and
Washington and Lee.

KincsLEY Woop has been working nearly
two years as a reporter for the Arizona
Daily Star, Tucson’s morning newspaper.
He was recently elected captain of the
Tucson Racquet Club’s men’s tennis
team for 1964-65.

ARTHUR W. KEHLHEM has been appointed
the technical sales representative for
coatings intermediates for the Enjay
Chemical Company. He joined this com-

39

 

ARTHUR W. KEHLHEM, ’59

pany in 1960 and is now responsible for
marketing in five New England states.
Before his aassociation with Enjay, Art
was with the purchasing department of
Esso Standard Oil Company, The Enjay
Company is a division of Humble Oil
Company with headquarters in New York
City. .

Louts Voicr SMITH is now news director
for WSDR station in Sterling, Illinois.
He is married to the former Sandra In-
man Smith,

DaAvip G. GLENDY received his master’s
degree in education from the University of
Virginia in 1963 and is now teaching z0-
ology and psychology at the Wytheville
branch of Virginia Polytechnic Institute.

The Board of Directors of the First Na-
tional Bank in Memphis, ‘Tennessee, has
announced the promotion of JAMEs M.
CREws, JR., to the position of assistant
trust officer. Jimmie has been an active
member of the mid-South alumni chap-
ter and is presently serving as treasurer.
He is active in the American Institute of
Banking and undertook further bank-
ing studies at the National Trust Schooi
at Northwestern University. He and _ his
wife, the former Elaine Elliott, have one
child.

Dr. Henry H. BOHLMAN graduated from
the University of Maryland Medical
School in June. He is now doing intern-
ship at the University Hospital in Ballti-
more.

Dr. DON K. JOFFRION is in his second year
of residency in Orthopedic Surgery at the
Confederate Memorial Medical Center
in Shreveport, Louisiana.

JAmMEs R. SOWELL is an independent oil
operator in Midland, ‘Texas. Jim and his
wife have one son, Wes, eighteen months
old.

40

 

James M. Crews, JR., ’59

1960

MARRIED: Ropert Gitt LATHROP and
Nancy Coalter Dew were married June
13, 1964, in New Hartford, Connecticut.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Josepu J. SMITH,
III, a son, Joseph Judson Smith, IV, on
October 1, 1964. Completing active army
duty in August, Joe is now associated with
the firm of Ferris & Company, members
of the New York Stock Exchange, in
Washington, D.C.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. JAmMes Duckerr
announce the adoption of a daughter,
Kristen Elizabeth, born September 22,
1964. Jim received his medical degree
from Baylor this past June and is now
serving an internship at the University
Hospital. The family lives in Dallas.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs Fred Fox BENTON,
Jr. a daughter, Lizinka Campbell, on
September 19, 1964. After graduation from
Harvard Business School, Foxy is now
management consultant for the Houston
CPA firm of ‘Touche, Ross, Bailey &
Smart.

J. DERYL HArtT, JR., is now serving his in-
ternship at the University of Pittsburgh.
He expects to be at Magee Hospital for
a short term and then transferred to the
Presbyterian University Hospital in Pitts-
burgh.

After completion of his Army tour with
the Intelligence Division in Korea, PETER
J. Lee attended Duke Law School. Peter
decided this year to enter the ministry
and was elected president of the entering
class at the Virginia Episcopal ‘Theologi-
cal Seminary in Alexandria, Virginia.
There are five Washington and Lee grad-
uates in the class.

JoHN CHarLes WHITE obtained his Ph.D.
degree in history from Duke University
in June. His first three years of graduate

studies were under the auspices of the
Southern Fellowship Fund and Duke Sum-
mer Studies Grants. In 1963, John re-
ceived a Duke University Travel and Re-
search Grant to France and Great Britain.
During the past year he and his wife,
Carolyn, have been living in Clemson,
South Carolina, where Carolyn has been
teaching history at the University.

Upon release from military duty with
the Army Finance School, Tom GrILLtiAM
was awarded the Army Commendation
Medal for his teaching service at the
U.S. Army Finance School in Indianapo-
lis. Tom and Diane now live in Roanoke,
Virginia, where he is an analyst for the
Vice-President of Finance of the Norfolk
and Western Railway Company.

FREDERICK H. BELDEN, JR., has been named
in charge of the Personnel Department
of Allstate Insurance Company’s New
York City office.

1961

MARRIED: WituiAM ‘'T. Burce, III, and
Mabel Stuart Upchurch were married on
August 29, 1964, at the First Baptist
Church of Raleigh, North Carolina. Bill
finished Law School in June at Duke Uni-
versity where he was president of his law
class.

MARRIED: Epwarp F. Meyers and Fran-
ces C. Mallory were married in the Rob-
ert E. Lee Memorial Church in Lexing-
ton, Virginia, on August 15, 1964. Ed
graduated from the Washington and Lee
Law School in 1963, and the couple will
live in Cleveland, Ohio.

MARRIED: HArowp JoserH FiscHeL and
Gloria Moskowitz were married in Lynch-
burg, Virginia, on July 26, 1964.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Ropert K. Park, II,
a daughter, Deborah Sue, on June 24,
1964. Bob is now vice-president of Farm-
er’s Building & Loan Association in
Ravenswood, West Virginia.

In October Rospert L. GiLuiAM, III, an-
nounced his appointment as Common-
wealth’s Attorney for Westmoreland
County (Va.) and the opening of an office
for the general practice of law in Mon-
tross, Virginia.

Lr. Henry M. Srrouss, III, was the first
American to sing with the opera chorus
of the City Theatre in Bremerhaven, Ger-
many, when the theater opened the season
with Wagner’s Lohengrin. Henry became
interested in the theater shortly after
he began his tour at the U.S. Army ‘Ter-
minal Command, Europe, in 1962, and
since then he has appeared in the ‘Ter-
minal Command’s ‘Theatre production of
Teahouse of the August Moon, and he
sang earlier this year in performances of
the Verdi “Requiem” that featured in-
ternationally famous soloists. He is Com-
missary Officer at the ‘Terminal Command
and manages an activity with a retail
and issue volume of more than 24% mil-
lion dollars a year. Henry’s musical ac-
tivities in his non-duty, hours are an ex-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

ample of the many close German-Amer-
ican ties typical of Bremerhaven.

ROBERT KENT FRAZIER graduated from
Harvard Law School last June and in-
tends to go into the Anmy this fall.

RosBerT J. BERGHEL and WILLIAM F. Forp
together with SAMUEL Bare, III, ’60, have
been admitted to partnership in the law
firm of Fisher and Phillips in Atlanta.

This fall DwicHt D. CHAMBERLAIN enter-
ed the school of Forestry and Wild Life
at V.P.I. He is taking work for a master’s
degree in wildlife management.

After receiving a master’s degree from
Columbia Graduate Business School, JER-
RY S. WILBOURN served six months active
duty in the Army. In January, 1964, he
became associated with Irving ‘Trust Com-
pany in New York City as a_ security
analyst.

VERLING ALASTAIR VOTOW was ordained a
deacon in the Episcopal Church in June
and he is now serving as a curate at St.
Thomas Church in Terrace Park, Ohio.
He is married to the former ‘Terry ‘Tarr
and the couple has two sons.

1962

MARRIED: Lr. JAMEs A. GwIN, JR., and
Dorothy Elizabeth Moses were married
September 4, 1964, in Panama City, Pan-
ama. Jimmie is on duty with the Army
in the Canal Zone.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs GERALD LOUIS
OUELLETTE, a son, Roland Gerard, on June
10, 1964. Gerald is in the banking busi-
ness in Washington, D.C.

Harry Preston, III, is presently stationed
at Ramey Air Force Base, a naval facil-
ity in Puerto Rico. He holds the rank of
Lieutenant (j.g.).

ALLAN GETSON, an attorney for Eilberg,
Meshon & Brener in Philadelphia, has
been promoted to specialist fourth class
in the Army Reserve.

Harry F. Kurz, JRr., is employed by the
Scott Paper Company in Chicago. Prior
to starting with this company he spent
two years in Germany as an officer in the

Army.
1963

MARRIED: Davin C. MONTGOMERY and
Jane Sydney Green were married on July
18, 1964. Among the groomsmen were
Bos PAYNE, °63, ASHLEY WILTSHIRE, ‘63,
and Jup Bascock, 63. Dave and Jane plan
to move to Chapel Hill where he will
enter the Graduate School of Business
Administration at the University of North
Carolina.

MARRIED: JERRY RANDALL MAceE and
Barbara Jean Staton were married in
Fairfield, Virginia, on August 15, 1964.
Jerry is a teacher at Rockbridge High
School in Fairfield.

MARRIED: RICHARD ‘THOMAS EDWARDS,
III, and Mary Evelyn Evans were married
on August 28, 1964, in Roanoke, Virginia.

FALL 1964

 

ist. Lr. Henry M. Srrouss, III, 61, center, commissary officer at the U. S. Terminal

Command, Europe, rehearses the scene from Wagner’s Lohengrin in the Bremerhaven

City Theater with Chorus Master HELMUT FELLMER, at the piano, and American baritone
JouN Mies, another of the principal figures in the opera.

MARRIED: E. Ricuarp (Dick) ALBERT,
III, and Dianne Reynolds Pepper were
married on September 1, 1964, in Mem-

phis, Dennessee.

 

FREDERICK J. KRALL, *64

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Nick SMITH, a
daughter, Allison Marie, on July 13, 1964.
Nick is with Bev Smith Ford Com-
pany in Lake Park, Florida.

CHARLES ALAN GRUBB received his master’s
degree in history from Columbia Univer-
sity in June. He is now doing his doc-
toral work in history at Columbia.

JAmeEs L. PETERS is in charge of the Of-
ficers Club at Ft. McClellan in Anniston,
Alabama, and he holds the rank of Lieu-
tenant.

Joun W. Hinrs has been commissioned
a second lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force.
He graduated from OTS at Lackland
AFB, ‘Texas, and is being assigned to a
unit of the U.S. Air Forces in Europe for
duty.

1964

FREDERICK J. KRALL was chosen first out
of 96 entries representing 28 colleges
in the essay sponsored by the American
Society for Personnel Administration.
Fred, whose home town is Kendallville,
Indiana, wrote his essay on the topic
“Creative Personnel Management.” Among
the contestants were masters and doctoral

41

graduate students. The essay is sched-
uled to be published in the July-August
issue Of “The Personnel Administrator.”

“ArrHur E. Broapus and Carole K. Dick-
inson (Hollins) were married July 13,
1964. After a wedding trip to Jamacia,
the couple; wills ‘reside in Nashville, Ten-
nessee, where Art will enter the Vander-
bilt University Medigal School.

In September there: were quite a num-
ber from *the class in” training at Fort
Benning, Georgia, Among ” “them _ were
Joun Mapison, Jim Rowe, Don: PARTING-
TON, JAY Gorry, DAN FLOURNOY, Bu.

YOUNG, and MACKEY ‘TILMAN.

 

 

1898

COL. WARREN WEBSTER WHITSIDE died in
Front Royal, Virginia, on October 24, 1964.
He was a retired colonel in the USS.
Army. His army career began in 1899
when he was commissioned as a Second
Lieutenant in the Cavalry and was as-
signed to Cuba. After service on the
Mexican Border he was a Colonel with
Field Artillery in the 89th Division in
World War I. During his career, Col.
Whitside received many military honors
and medals, including The Distinguished
Service Medal, the French Croix de Guerre
with two gold stars, and the World War I
Army Medal with three combat stars.

1899

FRANK LEFEVRE DOWNEY, a retired civil
engineer of Martinsburg, West Virginia,
died on August 26, 1964. Early in his life
Mr. Downey was an engineer for William
Gibbs McAdoo’s construction company in
Pennsylvania and played an important
part in many projects that are considered
major engineering feats. For many years
he was the maintenance engineer for the
West Virginia State Road Commission, re-
tiring in 1951 because of ill health.

1904

Dr. MATTHEW THOMPSON McCLurRE, for-
mer head of the University of Tlinois
department of philosophy and former
dean of the College of Arts and Sciences,
died in New Orleans on July 28, 1964.
Prior to going to Illinois, he served on
the faculties of the University of Vir-
ginia, Columbia University, and Tulane
University. He was the author of several
books and numerous papers on_philo-

42

  

sophical subjects published in profession-
al journals. Dr. McClure served as presi-
dent of the western division of the
American Philosophical Association and
as chairman of the national board of
officers of the association.

1906

BAYARD BENOIST SHIELDS, retired judge of
Jacksonville, Florida, died on December
11, 1963. He practiced from 1906 until
1935 When he became circuit judge, 4th
circuit of Florida, until his retirement in
1961.

H. LockHart HANDLEY died in Denver,
Colorado, on June 18, 1964. Mr. Handley
worked in coal mining and highway con-

.. struction in various parts of the United
“States, spending the last 25 years prior
to his retirement with the U.S. Bureau

of Public Roads.

1907

. JOHN Lewis GrpBs, an Episco-
ster for forty-five years and _ rec-

  

“tor of Emmanuel Episcopal Church in

Staunton, Virginia, until his retirement
last year, died on July 20, 1964. Dr. Gibbs
had also been Chaplain of Stuart Hall for
thirty-nine years and had served as a
member of the board of Virginia Theo-
logical Seminary and as secretary of the
Stuart Hall board of trustees.

1911

HotmMer W. KinG of Westerville, Ohio,
died June 7, 1964. Mr. King was a re-
tired mining,,engineer. He had previous-
ly been connected with steel mills in Gary,
Indiana, with the Kentucky Products
Coke Plant in Toledo, Ohio, and with the
Zenith Furnace Company of Duluth,
Minnesota.

PAUL Jones KiNG, formerly with the Dar-
lington School in Rome, Georgia, died
June 9, 1964. Prior to Mr. King’s retire-
ment in 1957, he was associated with
Darlington as head of the Bible Depart-
ment for fourteen years. He had also
served in various capacities at Riverside
Military Academy, in the Decatur (Ga.)
high schools, and was superintendent for
the schools of Dublin, Georgia. Mr. King
was an elder in the Presbyterian Church,
a Shriner, and a member of the Honorable
Kentucky Colonels.

1912

CLAUDE MApDISON Ray, a_ retired high
school teacher, died August 4 in Balti-
more, Maryland. Mr. Ray was associated
with the Washington, D.C., public school
systems for some 40 years before his re-
tirement.

1913

Howard LEE Rosinson of Clarksburg
West Virginia, died on November 3g, 1963.
Mr. Robinson had practiced law in Clarks-
burg for many years and was associated
with the firm of Robinson, Stump, High-

 

land & Morgan. He was appointed to serve
as U.S. Attorney for the Northern District
of West Virginia for a term of four
years, 1934-38. He was a member of the
West Virginia and American Bar Asso-
ciations, the American Law Institute, and
the International Association of Insurance
Counsel.

1915

Joun D. WortTHINGTON, a resident of Bel
Air, Maryland, died on September 14,
1964. Mr. Worthington was owner of
The Shield Press and publisher of the
Aegis, a large weekly newspaper. He had
been associated with publishing and news-
paper work since 1913, distinguishing
himself as an editor, and he was a mem-
ber and past-president of the Maryland
and Delaware Press Association. He
owned the well known “Homestead” farm
where he acquired and built up one of
the finest Guernsey herds of the East.
Through this interest he was active in
the American Guernsey Club for many
years and served as a director. He never-
theless found time to take part in many
educational and civic organizations in his
area.

1919

JuLius GoopMANn, Montgomery County
(Va.) commonwealth’s attorney for the past
twenty years, died on November 3g, 1964.
Mr. Goodman was a past-president of the
Montgomery-Floyd-Radford Bar Associa-
tion and had been active in Rotary Club
and American Legion Work.

1921

JoHN BELL, prominent Tampa, Florida,
attorney, died August 26, 1964. In 1922
Mr. Bell was admitted to the bars of
Tennessee and Florida, and since 1925
he had been associated with the law firm
of Knight, Bell & Jones. He served on
the board of governors of the Florida
Bar in 1950-51 and upon numerous com-
mittees, and he was twice president of
the Tampa and Hillsborough County Bar
Association. One of three ‘Tampa lawyers,
Mr. Bell in 1954 was named to a special
committee for Federal Court of the South-
ern District, serving as chairman, and in
the same year he was vice-chairman of the
Florida Bar Committee on civil procedure.
The President’s Committee on Safety in-
cluded Mr. Bell as one of its members in
1959. He was also very active in club and
social affairs in his community and in
Chamber of Commerce work.

ARTHUR MERRYMAN GILBERT died on Jan-
uary 2, 1964, after a long illness. Mr.
Gilbert was a native of Martinsburg, West
Virginia, and at one time served as post-
master for that city. He had also been
a member of the West Virginia House of
Delegates and had been associated with
various banks. He served one year as
head of the Community Fund Associa-
tion and was a leader in the American
Red Cross.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

1923

Jupce Grorce PEABopy Howarp, who re-
tired from the Tennessee Court of Ap-
peals in 1960 after a span of forty years

_ as lawyer and jurist, died June 16, 1964,

in St. Petersburg, Florida. Judge How-
ard had moved to Florida two years ago
from Chattanooga to accept a professor-
ship at Stetson University College of
Law. In World War I he served with the
famed 117th Infantry Regiment of the
goth Division and saw action in three
major campaigns. Judge Howard moved to
Chattanooga in 1922 and in 1930 became
assistant district attorney for Hamilton
County. Two years later he was elected
attorney-general and then was re-elected
in 1942. Judge Howard served on the
Appellate Court from 1947 until 1960
when he retired. eS

Harry Avis HALL of Sweetwater, Tennes-
see, died in a plane crash on July 9,

1964.
1924

WILLIAM CLIFFORD SMITH, a long time
member of Big Stone Gap ‘Town Council
and Chief Engineer for the Westmoreland
Coal Company, Stonega Division, died
October 8, 1964. Mr. Smith was promin-
ent in all community affairs: a past pres-
ident of the Chamber of Commerce; a
past chairman of the Red Cross chapter.
He was the organizer and first president
of the Powell Valley Shrine Club.

The Democratic leader of Manhattan’s

First Assembly District, S$, ARTHUR GLIx-

ON, died July 24, 1964. A distinguished
lawyer, the prominent Democrat and
Jewish leader was a regular candidate
for the State Senate and was past-president
of the Association of Trial Lawyers. Mr.
Glixon was a native of New Haven, but
he grew up in Jacksonville, Florida. He
was also a past-president of District One
of B’nai Brith.

J. Davis Kerr, JR., a practicing lawyer
in Spartanburg, South Carolina, and a
former president of the State Bar Asso-
ciation, died July 28, 1964. Mr. Kerr had
served as a trustee for the University of
South Carolina since 1952. He had also
served as a special circuit judge under
various appointments and was a perman-
ent member of the judicial conference of
the Fourth Circuit.

1925

JosEPpH M. Hott, a prominent Greenbrier
County attorney, died September 22 in
Lewisburg, West Virginia. Mr. Holt had
served two terms as prosecuting attorney
for Greenbrier County and had practiced
law since 1929. He was a brother of the
former West Virginia Governor, Homer
A. Holt,

1926

Cyrus O. Davajan died in Modesto,
California, in the early part of January,

FALL 1964

1964. After graduating from Washington
and Lee Law School, Mr. Davajan prac-
ticed law in Teheran, Iran, until 1943.
During that time only three or four law-
yers were practicing in Iran, and Mr.
Davajan was highly successful in his
profession and he also built up a cor-
poration for road and highway construc-
tion. After his return to this country in
1943, he dealt in real estate in Califor-
nia, home building and construction, and

ranching.
1927

Louis Newron Hock died on Nevember
9, 1964, in Roanoke, Virginia. Mr. Hock
was a general agent of the Central
Standard Life Insurance. Company.

Hunt M. WhaiIreneap, former member of
the Virginia House of Delegates and son
of late Congressman Joseph Whitehead,
died in Chatham, Virginia, on September
12, 1964. Mr. Whitehead was a recognized
power in county politics for three de-
cades and served on the county Board
of Supervisors. He was owner of a pharm-
acy in Chatham for thirty-three years
and was a member of the ‘Town Council.

JOHN PEMBERTON PENN of Danville, Vir-
ginia, died on January 10, 1964.

1929

Dr. JOHN ALEXANDER TOLLEY, who had
practiced dentistry in Washington, D.C.,
for thirty-four years, died in Washington
on September 22, 1964. Dr. Tolley was
associated with many Masonic activities
in the area and was a member of the
American, Virginia State, and District of
Columbia Dental Associations.

1934

‘THOMAS STEWART WHEELWRIGHT, JR., man-
aging editor of the Covington Virginian,
died on November 12, 1964. For many
years Mr. Wheelwright was in newspaper
work with the Richmond News Leader,
the Petersburg Progress-Index, and the
Goochland Gazette before going to Cov-
ington, Virginia, several years ago. At
one time he was assistant to the director
of Civilian Defense in Virginia.

SAMUEL WALTON COLEMAN died July 6,
1994, in Kingsport, ‘Tennessee. Mr. Cole-
man was an attorney in Gate City, Vir-
ginia, and president of the First National
Bank.

1935

WILLIAM HOLDERBY DARNALL died on June
25, 1964, in Huntington, West Virginia.
Mr. Darnall had practiced law in Hunt-
ington since receiving his law degree from
the University of Arizona in 1935.

1937

James Kinc Butter died on October 4,
1964, in* Jackson, Mississippi, where he

was on vacation. Mr. Butler was Regional
Manager of Pan American-Grace  Air-
ways, Inc., in South America, and he and
his family made their home in Lima,
Peru. Mr. Butler took a very large part
in the activities of the American colony
in Lima. In 1955 he was president of the
American Society of Peru. He was a di-
rector of the Anglo-American Hospital
and director and president of the board
of the American School of Lima. The
Peruvian Government honored Mr. But-
ler by bestowing upon him the decora-
tion of the Order of Merit for Distin-
guished Service.

HOWARD CALVERT OwINGS, JR., died in
Norfolk, Virginia, on July 27, 1964. He
was owner and operator of the Trans-
Van Lines, Inc. During his years on
campus “Tubby” was an_ outstanding
tackle on the Varsity football squad. A
native of Baltimore, he lived most of his

life in Norfolk.
1941

ALLEN "THOMAS SNYDER, vice-president of
George H. Snyder, Inc., died in Rydal,
Pennsylvania, on November 7, 1964. As
an undergraduate Mr. Snyder had served
as president of the student body at Wash-
ington and Lee. Before his association
with Snyder, Inc., manufacturers of paper
and cigar boxes, he had spent a number
of years in college administrative work,
and from 1947-1949 he was associate di-
rector of the Bi-Centennial Campaign
here at Washington and Lee.

1946

RICHARD CHALLICE HAyYDON, JR.,_ for-
mer member of the Prince William Coun-
ty School Board in Manassas Virginia,
died on October 2, 1964, in California.
Mr. Haydon had been in poor health for

over a year.
1954

WILLIAM ‘THOMAS CLEM, president of the
Lansdale (Pa.) Junior Chamber of Com-
merce, died on July 18, 1964. He was a
marketing research analyst for Smith,
Kline & French laboratories, pharmaceu-
tical manufacturers, and was Hospital
Unit Head for this company.

1960

Davin LEE DUNLAP died as the result of
an automobile accident on June 27, 1964.
He had been associated since December,
1963, with Chase Manhattan Bank of New
York City as an estate tax specialist.

1966

JAmrs DEAN BRANDON, JR., was killed in
an automobile accident on August 23,
1964. James’ home was in Murfreesboro,
Tennessee. He played freshman football
at Washington and Lee in the 1962-63
season.

43

L-r, ROGER Mupbp, °50; CHARLES R. Mc-

DOWELL, JR., °48; ANDY MCCUTCHEON, 748;

and Richmond Chapter president, JACK
Kay, JR., 751.

Panel of Alumni Experts
Provides Richmond Chapter

With Political

RICHMOND

# ONE OF THE finest programs on
record for the Richmond Chapter
was held November 19 in the As-
sembly Lounge of the Hotel Rich-
mond.

A panel consisting of Andy Mc-
Cutcheon, ’48, administrative assis-
tant to Congressman J. Vaughan
Gary; Roger Mudd, ‘50, news cor-
respondent for C.B.S._ television,
and Charlie McDowell, ’48, syndi-
cated columnist with the Richmond
Times-Dispatch, kept the alumni,
wives and guests spellbound with
their “observation and experiences
on the scene—Politics 1964.”

A cocktail party preceded the ele-
gant dinner at which chapter
president, Jack Kay, Jr., °51, pre-
sided. He expressed appreciation
tor the arrangements to Wally Mc-
Graw, °55, Billy Doswell, ’47, and
Mark Saurs, *49.

Andy McCutcheon — served as
master of ceremonies and gave a

44

‘Inside’ View

“before the scene’ account of an
“advance” man—an assignment
Andy had held for the Lady Bird
Train campaign tour made by Mrs.
Johnson through the South. Roger
Mudd told of his experiences not
only at the party conventions but
also on campaign tours with Sena-
tor Goldwater and President John-
son. Charlie McDowell concluded
with a humorous but enlightening
talk on some “behind the scene”’ ac-
tion and some “estimates” for Vir-
ginia and the nation in the future.
Following the program Andy Mc-
Cutcheon handled questions to the
panel of experts from the alumni
audience.

In adjourning the meeting, Presi-
dent Kay advised the members of
the annual formal dance which is
to be held Saturday, February 6.

= RICHMOND alumni met in the Im-
perial Room of the Sheraton Mon-
roe Motor Inn on September end

 

to entertain new freshmen with a
luncheon.

President Jack Kay, ’51, presid-
ed at the meeting and introduced
the fourteen new freshmen and
their fathers. He turned the pro-
gram over to a present student, Jim
Slay, °65, who, in turn, introduced
several upperclassmen and _ called
upon Bill Jeffress, Rob Vaughan,
J. Malcolm Morris and John Gra-
ham to give brief talks on various
phases of college life on campus.

Bill Washburn was on hand to
make a few remarks and extend
welcome on behalf of the entire
Alumni Association. President Kay
adjourned the meeting with a word
of thanks to the other officers Wal-
ter J]. McGraw, ’55, J. William Dos-
well, °48 and Mark Saurs, ’49 for
their splendid help and coopera-
tion in making the meeting such a
successful one. Discussion took
place on the plans for the chapter
during the fall.

JACKSONVILLE

® THE JACKSONVILLE alumni held an
informal luncheon August 31 at the
Seminole Club in honor of the new
freshmen from the area who were
entering the University in Septem-
ber.

The new students were welcomed
by a number of present undergrad-
uate students, and William B.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Richmond’s active chapter also entertained freshmen who would enter Washington and Lee in September, 1954. Above, seated, I-r,
freshmen GOEFFREY L. STONE, PETER M. Witt, J. COLEMAN BLAKE, RICHARD H. HaAmitton, Jr., Davin L. RiLey, RoBerr B. CARTER,
Davip P. Lrentz, and WILLIAM M.S. RASMUSSEN. Standing, l-r, Davip S. HULBURT, E. C. Dixon, JR., RoBerr B. Sproat, chapter secretary

J. WittiAmM DosweLL, 48, chapter president JouN F. Kay, Jr.,

51, chapter vice president WALTER J. MCGRAw, °55, G. WEBSTER

DrHorr, Jr., ANDREW W. RYAN, JR,, and J. TeRRY Cox.

Barnett, president of the chapter,
expressed greetings on behalf of the
entire Alumni Chapter. ‘The alum-
ni extended greetings and_ wel-
comed the fathers of the new stu-
dents who were also present.

PIEDMONT

® WITH OVER forty-five alumni and
their wives present, the Piedmont
Chapter met November 4th at the
Starmount Forest Country Club
in Greensboro, North Carolina.

Retiring president, Robert F.
Campbell, *42, presided over the
meeting which had been so capably
arranged by W. E. Latture, ‘49. As-
sociate Dean of Students James D.
Farrar, who is director of admis-
sions, made the principal address.
During the afternoon Dean Farrar
had visited the local high school.

At the short business meeting,
the following officers were elected
for the new year: Hugh Bonino,
’26, President; and Walter Hannah,
’50, Secretary.

Those named to the Executive
Committee were C. Royce Hough,
59; Joe J. Grayeroi,. 12 4G;
Thomas D. Cooper, Jr., 49; John

FALL 1964

McGehee, Jr., °43; Dr. William W.
Trige, [r., “40.

BALTIMORE

m GATHERING at the home of Frank
Brooks, ’46, on August 31st, the of-
ficers of the Baltimore chapter held
an informal stag dinner for the
freshmen entering Washington and
Lee in September. After introduc-
tions of the new men by president
Bill Clements, ’50, a buffet dinner
was served, followed by a fine dis-
cussion period.

Carroll Klingelhofer, a senior,
was particularly helpful with up-to-
the-minute information and advice
for the freshmen| He urged the men
to make good use of their ““‘uncom-
mitted” time at Washington and
Lee with mature and serious en-
deavors.

Color slides of the campus were
presented by Executive Secretary
Bill Washburn, who also gave
further information on Freshman
Camp and other aspects of the first
few weeks. Steve Ehudin, ’57, and
Jim O'Conner, ‘44, told of plans
for a bus trip by the alumni to
Lexington for Homecoming. ‘The

extremely fine meeting was con-
cluded by Bill Clements with a
special wish of “good luck” to the
freshmen.

NORFOLK

m= THE PAST and present officers of
the Norfolk chapter entertained the
newly entering freshmen from the
‘Tidewater area at a “‘cook-out” at
the home of Bernard Levin, ’42, on
August 29th.

After expressing welcome on be-
half of the chapter, Judge Earle
Cadmus turned chef and _ assisted
Mr. and Mrs. Levin with the boun-
tiful supply of hamburgers, hot-
dogs, and other refreshments.

Several upperclassmen joined
Bill Washburn, executive secretary,
in conducting a question and an-
swer period in which color slides of
the University were shown. Special
ereetings were offered the parents
of the new freshmen by Washburn,
who assured them of “honorary
membership” in the alumni asso-
ciation. Sincere appreciation was
expressed to Mr. and Mrs. Levin
by all those who attended.

45

Baltimore area freshmen hon-
ored by the chapter there in-
cluded, seated, l-r, RICHARD
M. CAPLAN, JAMES H. LOwE,
JAcK J. APPLEFELD, RANDOLPH
W. BRINTON, and JAMES Jf.
Dawson, Standing are, I-r,
WILLIAM CLEMENTS, ’50, JIM
O’CONNOR, °44, STEVE EHUDIN,
57, FRANK Brooks, °46, and
CARROLL KLINGELHOFER, ’65.

 

 

At Jacksonville’s alumni event were, l-r, HAYwoop BALL, A. PARKER NEFF, *51, left and BERNARD LEVIN, 42, make
‘61, “T. F. Kine, Jr., 758, ARCHIE JENKINS, °58, WARREN an assault on the food at the Norfolk Chapter outing.
WILBOX, '63, and BILL BARNETT, ’58.

Freshmen from the New York
area were entertained by the
alumni in September. Seated,
l-r, RoBERT J. SMITH, JEFFREY
T. Briccs, chapter president
RICHARD H. ‘TURRELL, 49,
DEENE W._ LINDSEY, and
JAMES F. HARRINGTON, JR.
Standing, I-r, WittuiAM A.
‘TIMMERMAN, PETER J]. APIs-
DORF, JOHN L. NEwQulst, and
KAZMIERZ HERCHOLD.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

NEW YORK

™ MEETING AT THE Overseas Press
Club in New York on September
ist, the New York alumni joined in
welcoming a large group of new
freshmen who entered Washington
and Lee this year.

President Dick ‘Turrell presided
and named for the alumni those 29
new freshmen and introduced the
large number who attended the
meeting with their parents. Execu-
tive Secretary Bill Washburn
showed colored sldies of the cam-
pus which was followed by a splen-
did question and answer period.
The alumni and several upperclass-
men who were present joined in ex-

When Alumni Secretary BILy
WASHBURN visited Denver last
summer, he lunched with four
alumni there: l-r, Ross B. GRE-
NARD, JR., 754, I. “ZEKE” SCHER,
‘50, WASHBURN, °40, MARVIN L.
Daves, 48, and Louts L. CLINn-
TON, JR., °40.

plaining much of the University
to the new students and the par-
ents, and all joined in a very warm
welcome to the new men.

WASHINGTON

= MEMBERS Of the Washington,
biG area chapter met the the
Army-Navy Club on September 3rd
for a luncheon in honor of the
twenty-eight freshmen who entered
Washington and Lee in September.

President Julian Gillespie, ’52,
presided and introduced each of the
freshmen while giving the name of
his high school. Dr. Charles Phil-

FALL 1964

lips, associate professor of econom-
ics, was also present and expressed
a welcome to the new men.
Following a luncheon and a dis-
cussion of the chapter’s fall pro-
gram, Bill Washburn, executive sec-
retary, narrated a series of color
slides of University scenes. Several
upperclassmen, including F. Wil-
liam Burke and Larry Manning,
conducted a question and answer
period for the freshmen, awhich was
informative for the alumni as well.

PENSACOLA

m THREE FRESHMEN who. entered
Washington and Lee this Septem-
ber—Chris Hart, Dave Johnson, and

Dante Kahn—were entertained by
the alumni at the home of Henry
McLaughlin on August 21st. The
boys came with their parents and
enjoyed the refreshments includ-
ing an inexhaustible supply of
fresh shrimp.

President Rodger Doyle made
the official welcome and sounded
the praises for the young men who
had been selected. In a brief busi-
ness session the activities for the
coming year were discussed.

LYNCHBURG

mw» THE LYNCHBURG ALUMNI enter-

tained with a reception for the new
freshmen from their area at the
home of Edward Graves on Septem-
ber and. A large group of the al-
umni joined to extend a hand of
welcome, and several of the upper-
classmen made a short talk about
various phases of freshman life at
Washington and Lee. The splendid
arrangements were handled by Bil-
ly Giles, ’61.

After expressing appreciation to
Giles, President ‘Tom Martin made
a brief report on the chapter's fu-..
ture program, including their fall
smoker for the athletic coaches, a
bus trip for the Hampden-Sydney
football game, and the annual
Christmas dance and meeting.

 

MID-SOUTH

‘™ FOLLOWING AN alumni meeting,

which included the election of of-
ficers, atthe University: Glub. in
Memphis on August 26th, a recep-
tion was held in honor of the enter-
ing freshmen and their parents.
This activity was followed by a
luncheon at the Summit Club on
August 31st. Several undergraduate
students were on hand to give short
comments on various phases of col-
leg? life.

The newly elected officers are
president, Milburn K. Noell, Jr.,
51; vice-president, Worthington

47

 

 

The Generals had won and smiles were broad at the Memphis Chapter meeting tn
November. L-r, athletic director E. P. “Cy” Twomsty, football coach LEE MCLAUGHLIN,
chapter president MILBURN K. NOELL, JR., 51, and Mrs. NOELL.

Brown, Sr., ’29; secretary, William
H. Houston, III, ’56; treasurer, Gil-
bert R. McSpadden, Jr., 56. Direc-
tors elected were William R. Car-
rington Jones, 54, S. L. Kopald, Jr.,
43, James William McClintock,
Ill, *53, and W. Jacques Schuler,
Jr., 56. Other directors continuing
to serve are Orson K. Earp, Jr., °56,
Wilham L. Horner, Jr., °52, Ru-
dolph Jones, ‘22, J. Hunter Lane,
Jv., °51, and F. Osborne Schaeter,
Jv, “55.

Another outstanding meeting for
the chapter took place November
i4th at the University Club of
Memphis following the Washing-
ton and Lee-Southwestern football
game. he g-o victory of the Gen-
erals set the spirit for the evening’s
entertainment. ‘The arrangements

48

were made by Ozzie Schaefer, ’55,
and Jim Schuler, ’56, assisted by
Clint Early, 59, and John Well-
ford, °57.

A cocktail party began immedi-
ately following the game. ‘The
coaches and the football team
joined the alumni later for an early
dinner and dancing. The football
team was obliged to leave at 8:00
although the party continued.
Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn
was on hand and made a brief in-
troduction of Coach McLaughlin,
who expressed sincere thanks on be-
half of the Athletic Department
and particularly the football team.
Many alumni were _ especially
pleased to have Cy ‘Twombly, ath-
letic director at Washington and
Lee, attend the meeting.

WILMINGTON

& THE EXECUTIVE COMMITYEE of the
Alumni Chapter of Delaware en-
tertained the new freshman, Thom-
as Ingold, and several upperclass-
men at an informal cookout at the
Wilmington Country Club on Sep-
tember 2. The cookout was held
around the club swimming pool
where refreshments were served.

President Rogers Pleasants dis-
cussed, along with the upperclass-
men, those contributions which the
Delaware club can make to the stu-
dents in the Wilmington area; re-
marked on various phases of college
life, particularly the freshman year;
and advised all of those present of

the informal plans for the coming
fall.

CUMBERLAND VALLEY

AMID THE elegant setting of the
Fountainhead Country Club in
Hagerstown, Maryland, the Cum-
berland Valley chapter met on Au-
gust 26th. Vhe affair was in honor
of the new freshmen from the
area who entered Washington and
Lee in September. Outgoing presi-
dent, William C. Hamilton, "43,
presided at the meeting which in-
cluded a large group of alumni, un-
dergraduate students, and new
freshmen and their parents.

A secretary-treasurer’s report was
given by Jim Rimler, ’31. The fol-
lowing slate of officers, presented
by the nominating committee, was
elected unanimously: President I.
Glenn Shively, °36, of Chambers-
burg, Pa.; Vice-President Clyde E.
Smith, Jr., ’42, of Martinsburg, W.
Va.; and Secretary-treasurer James
L. Rimler, ’31, of Frederick, Md.,
who was re-elected. Also named as
Board of Directors for the chapter
were Samuel C. Strite, ’29, Charles
R. Beall, Jr., 56, Merle G. Kaetzel,
31, Robert E. Clapp, Jr., ’30, Rob-
ert C. McCardell, °34, and John
B. Hoke, Jr., ’61.

Executive secretary Bill Wash-
burn attended the meeting and pre-
sented colored slides of the Uni-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

versity which depicted not only life
at Freshman Camp, but many
scenes of the campus and of the
1964 Republican Mock Conven-
tion. Following the program there
was a question and answer period
before adjournment.

DANVILLE

m AN INFORMAL dinner September
ist at the Chesapeake Charcoal
Steak House was given in honor of
the four freshmen entering Wash-
ington and Lee from the Danville
area. Fathers of the new men were
present along with two new law
school freshmen.

In expressing welcome, Doug
Frith, president of the chapter, in-
troduced all of the new men and
presided over the discussion _peri-
od which followed. Alumni helped
describe experiences which the new
men might expect their first year on
campus.

At Danville, alumni were host to new students
and their fathers. At right are, standing, I-r,
WILLIAM F. STONE, ’331,, Curtis W. ISLEY,
James L. BecKNER, and CuHartes I. Lewis, ’go.
Seated, l-r, are sons WM. F., Jr., GC. W., Jr.,
J. L., JR., and CHArRLes C., respectively. Below,
Joe R. MEapors, ’53, left, greets new law stu-
dent Roscoz REYNOLDs, and Harris M. Joyce,
50, right, contratulates law student BENJAMIN
R. GARDNER.

 

At the Cumberland Valley Chapter meeting were, l-r, former president WituiaM C.
HAMILTON, °43, new president I. GLENN SHIVELY, °36, and the re-elected secretary-
treasurer, JAMES L. RIMLER, ’31.

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

with crest in five colors

 

‘This chair is made from northern birch and rock maple—hand-rubbed
in black with gold trim (arms finished in cherry). A perfect gift for
Christmas, birthday, anniversary or wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to

the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

Price $30.50 f.o.b. Gardner, Massachusetts

 

 

