 

 

 

 

WASHING TON
AND LEE 8

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

  

Spring 1968

 

 

Nixon supporters whoop it up for their man.

Mock Convention Says

It was late afternoon on Saturday,
May 4. The colorful parade along
the streets of Lexington the day
before was a fond memory. The
keynote address of Gov. Claude R.
Kirk, Jr., of Florida was by then
just a part of the record. So too
were the address and presentation of
the platform by former Gov. Henry
Bellmon of Oklahoma. The gavel had
been pounded thousands of times. The
stirring nominating speeches and
noisy demonstrations were over. The
last banner had been waved, the last
placard hoisted, the last balloon burst,
and the last shower of confetti had
settled among the debris cluttering
the floor of Doremus Gymnasium.
The balloting had begun and the
Washington and Lee Mock Conven-
tion was coming to the moment of
truth.

It came on the third ballot—Rich-
ard M. Nixon was the choice for the
Republican nomination for President
of the United States. A few minutes
later the Washington and Lee dele-
gates—playing their roles as realistic-
ally as humanly possible in this curi-

 

Gov. Kirk acknowledges convention cheers.

ous political year—picked Sen.
Charles Percy of Illinois for the vice
presidential nomination.

Mr. Nixon, attending the Kentucky
Derby in Louisville, accepted the
Mock Convention’s nomination by
telephone message, saying that “peace
at home and peace abroad must be
discussed in the campaign” and stress-
ing that the Washington and Lee
nomination “means a great deal to
me.” Then Convention Chairman
Steven R. Saunders, senior from El-
mont, N.Y., adjourned the  two-
day convention. It was all over—
almost.

Almost—because the real test of
how well the Washington and Lee
students carried out their exercise in
practical convention politics will come
in August in Miami when the real
Republican National Convention
chooses a presidential candidate.

If the actual Republican delegates
on the first ballot give Richard Nixon
about 400 votes, Gov. Nelson Rocke-
feller of New York about 300, and
scatter the remaining votes among
favorite sons .. . and if on the second

‘Nixon’!

ballot Nixon moves within about 20
votes of the 667 needed for nomina-
tion and Rockefeller manages to come
up with only about 440... and if
on the third ballot the switching
begins in earnest and Nixon winds
up with about 1,280 of the 1,333
votes, the Washington and Lee stu-
dents will for the 10th time in 14
tries, and for the Sth time in a row,
have picked the right candidate for
President for the party out of power
in much the same manner as the real
convention.

Of course, if Mr. Nixon is the
actual nominee—whether he wins on
the first or whatever ballot—the
Washington and Lee students will
again have proved their uncanny
political acuity.

The consensus after the convention
was that the students chose correctly,
staged a thoroughly realistic conven-
tion, deported themselves as gentle-
men, and had a huge lot of fun.
(A future issue of the Alumni Maga-
zine will present the Mock Conven-
tion in greater detail in words and
pictures.)

 

oe pete

Editor

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ‘40

Managing Editor

ROMULUS T. WEATHERMAN

Editorial Assistant

Mrs. Frep K. CARTER

THE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President
FREDERICK BARTENSTEIN, JR., '41

Vice-President
Jack L, Crist, JR., "45

Secretary

WILLIAM C, WASHBURN, 40

Treasurer
WILLIAM C, BAKER, '38

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

WILLIAM C. BAKER, '38
FREDERICK BARTENSTEIN, JR., '41
Jor F. BEAR, '33

CHARLES F, CLARKE, JR., '38
GEORGE Crappock, M.D., ‘go
JAcK L. Crist, JR., '45
WARREN H. EDWARDS, '39
JOHN M. Jones, III, 37

S. L. KoPALpb, JR., "43
EDWARD H. OULD, ‘29

EMIL L. RASSMAN, '41
RICHARD H. TURRELL, '49

EDITORIAL BOARD

PAxTON DAvIs

FRANK J. GILLIAM, '17

FREDERICK BARTENSTEIN, JR., ‘41
WILLIAM C., WASHBURN, 40
JAMEs W. WHITEHEAD

WASHING TON
AND LEE

   
 

<< —

 
  

  

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

VOLUME 43 NUMBER 2 JUNE 1968
CONTENTS
A Symposium on Shakespeare... 2
Alumni Weekend: 1968 Re eres 5
New Alumni Directors . . . . . 6
Coeamter NOME Sa es ”
W&L Men on the Virginia Bench .  .~ 10
The Washington and Lee Lawyer .  . 18
Class Notes Safir. de. teeter ae. dics al
Pn Moekmeriaie-—e ott Hime the ste tee

 

 

 

About the Cover

Why is W. Gilbert Faulk, Jr., a senior law student, interviewing
a man in a jail cell? To find out, see Law Prof. Charles Laughlin’s
article on the role the School of Law is playing in a legal aid
program. The article is in the Washington and Lee Lawyer, which
is being carried as an insert in this issue of the magazine.

Published quarterly by the Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lex-
ington, Virginia 24450 and printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press of
Washington and Lee University under the supervision of C. Harold Lauck.
All communications and P. O. D. Forms 3579 should be addressed to Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni, Inc., Alumni House, Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Virginia, with additional mailing permit at
Roanoke, Virginia.

 

 

L. C. KNIGHTS

By Grorce W. Ray

The
SALUTARY
CHEMISTRY
of a
SYMPOSIUM

on

SHAKESPEARE

C. L. BARBER

INCE 1959, THE INAUGURAL YEAR Of the Arthur

Graham Glasgow Endowment Program ‘‘to pro-
mote the art of expression by pen and tongue,” the
Glasgow Endowment Committee has sponsored the
visits of many outstanding creative artists, including
Katherine Anne Porter, John Ciardi, Merle Miller,
William Humphrey, Edward Albee, Richard Eber-
hart, Robert Lowell, Howard Nemerov, Robert Penn
Warren, Karl Shapiro, David Stacton and James
Dickey. Not committed to any literary orthodoxy or
rigid rubric by the liberal terms of the generous
bequest, the Glasgow Committee has brought a stimu-
lating series of poets, dramatists, and novelists to the
campus for periods ranging from a few days to an
entire academic year.

This year the Endowment Committee, composed
of six faculty members with Professor Paxton Davis
as chairman, continued its laudable pattern of innova-
tion by arranging a Critical Symposium entitled ‘“Ap-
proaches to Shakespeare.”

For three days, February 13-15, four literary critics
of international reputation—C. L. Barber, Kenneth
Burke, Stanley Edgar Hyman, and L. C. Knights—
confronted Washington and Lee students in a variety
of contexts, from formal talks in Lee Chapel to in-
formal seminars held at the Alumni House. The
success of the Symposium was assured when it became
eminently clear from the outset that our distinguished
guests warmly welcomed the open format with its
broad spectrum of opportunities for direct contact

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

STANLEY EDGAR HYMAN

with the students. The salutary chemistry of the
Symposium, then, was the happy result of getting the
proper people in the proper places. Such a significant
occasion deserves report as well as praise.

In one of his most durable essays, “The Function
of Criticism at the Present Time,” Matthew Arnold
tells us that “criticism must be sincere, simple, flexible,
ardent, ever widening its knowledge.” It was precisely
these qualities which the speakers so abundantly ex-
hibited as they brought their various skills and strateg-
ies to bear on a prearranged common material, Shake-
speare’s major tragedies.

L. C. Knights, one-time enfant terrible of Shake-
speare studies but now established as the King Edward
VII Professor of English Literature at Cambridge
University, opened the Symposium on Tuesday eve-
ning with a delightful and elegant delivery of his
paper on “‘Shakespeare’s Tragedies and the Question
of Moral Judgment.”’ No longer the radical who had
lecades ago assailed the “Character school” of Shake-
spearean criticism and its preeimient exponent, A. C,
Bradley, in his now classic essay “How Many Children
Had Lady Macbeth,” Knights took a conservative
position, defending the Arnoldian premise that lit-
erature should function morally as a “‘criticism of life.”
This recurrent assumption in Knights’ important body
of criticism finds clearest statement in his latest book,
Further Explorations:

As for works of imaginative literature ...we are interested
in them because they all in different ways focus what

SPRING 1968

 

KENNETH BURKE

Arnold called ‘the great question,—How to Live?’—they
spring from a passionate interest in the general life and
lead back to it.

Because Hamlet so sharply focuses “the great ques-
tion,” Knights emphasized the ethical relevance of
this timeless study of a trapped, death-directed, and
corrupted consciousness.

The speakers on Wednesday were Kenneth Burke
and C. L. Barber. In the afternoon session the ir-
repressible and versatile Burke—esteemed critic, philo-
sopher, novelist, poet, translator, rhetorician, and what
have you—addressed himself to the subject of “King
Lear: Its Form and its Psychosis.’’ Presenting himself
as a critic ‘‘prophecying after the fact’? and employ-
ing his special critical vocabulary (accessible to in-
terested readers in his “Dictionary of Pivotal Terms”
in Counter-Statement), Burke stressed the central
motif of abdication in Lear, or what he termed the
“paradox of substance,”’ the tendency for the charact-
ers to dissolve in their contexts and hence abdicate
from their responsibilities. Burke thus gave his audi-
ence a suggestive formulation for organizing the
parallel and contrasting forms of “abdication’’ in
Shakespeare’s masterwork. Resonating, interlocking
levels of dissolution are manifold, from the concrete,
tangible loss of clothing, sight, retainers, land, and
life itself to the more abstract but nonetheless “‘felt’’
loss of identity, zmsight, the capacity for loyalty and
love, and the meaning of life.

Burke viewed himself as a “systematic” and ‘“‘en-

3

 

telechial” critic fulfilling his own set of perceptive
possibilities; that is, theoretically he generated his in-
sights from within a closed critical cosmos consistent
with his concept of language as symbolic action and
his definition of man as “the symbol-using animal,
inventor of the negative, separated from his natural
condition by instruments of his own making, goaded
by the spirit of hierarchy and rotten with perfection.”
Burke, however, can not be accused of advocating
private and provincial criticism; to the contrary he
has asserted, ““The main ideal of criticism, as I con-
ceive it, is to use all that is there to use,” and in
practice he has admirably followed this open-door
policy.

The final speakers, albeit in quite different ways,
also practiced Burke’s dictum: “to use all that is there
to use.’ C. L. Barber's publications attest eloquently
to his ability “to use all,” particularly his Shakespeare’s
Festive Comedy in which he mined the rich anthro-
pological lode of English folk-customs and ritual
deriving from the Roman Saturnalia to brilliantly
illuminate the structure, character, and theme of those
plays conducive to this approach. In his paper on
Hamlet Professor Barber tackled the vexing problem
of the ghost’s ambiguity, “Spirit of health, or goblin
damned,” and its tangency to Hamlet’s moral dilemma.
After providing a capsule summary of historical in-
terpretations of the ghost and disagreeing with those
who unequivocally assume the ghost to be a devil,
Barber placed the issue of the ghost’s identity as sec-
ondary to the moral implications of Hamlet’s exessive
attachment to the King-Father spectre. This inordinate
worship Barber termed “destructive piety.” Totally
galvanized by the spirit at the outset, Hamlet, in order
to “taint not [his own] spirit” and yet abide by the
apparition’s other injunctions, must cease to deify his
father. Unlike Knights, Barber argued that after his
sea-journey Hamlet has made a successful psychological
and moral adjustment which allows him to forgive
his parents for not being gods. Augmenting his thesis
with spontaneous quotation of crucial speeches, Barber
impressively anchored his argument in the text and
demonstrated a refreshing enthusiasm for, and un-
common mastery of, his subject matter.

The speaker on Thursday afternoon was Stanley
Edgar Hyman, ex-critic for The New Leader but best-
known for his study of the makers and methods of
modern literary criticism, The Armed Vision. The
title of Hyman’s paper, ‘Iago: Some Approaches to
Motivation,” announced his pluralistic and synthetic
critical approach. In his historical review Hyman
isolated five principal readings of the enigmatic an-
tagonist: formalist (Iago as stage villain), theological
(Iago as Satan), psychoanalytic (Iago as latent homo-
sexual), Burkean (Iago as improvising artist), and his-
tory of ideas (Iago as Machiavel). Accepting the

4

validity of all these Iagos, Hyman nevertheless pro-
fessed a preference for the theological reading of
Othello as a vestigial Morality play wherein the pri-
mary allegorical equivalencies become Iago as the
Satanic Ancient-in-Evil, Desdemona as the Christ
figure, and Othello, “the base Judean,” as a type of
Judas Iscariot. Pressed vigorously in the discussion
period, Hyman seemed willing to admit those Iagos
suggested by his audience which he had omitted in his
catalogue.

In the last session, a panel discussion on Thursday
evening, the participants devoted their energies to
clarifying their respective critical stances, a process
which tended to blur rather than to sharpen dis-
tinctions among the presuppositions and methodol-
ogies of the panelists. In fact, the discussion was re-
markable for the unanimity of opinion it generated.
All of the critics either explicitly or implicitly accepted
the relevance of literature to life; all regarded lit-
erature, in Barber’s phrase, as “an organ of culture”’
to be best understood and evaluated by the rigorous
application of an informed, sensitive critical intellig-
ence “using all that is there to use” rather than by
arbitrary imposition of any doctrine formulae.
All four critics revealed themselves to be de facto
eclectics, practicing a policy of analytic synthesis and
rewarding their auditors with insights as profound
and perceptive as their minds could muster at the
critical moment. In sum, the Glasgow Symposium
demonstrated the superiority of Mind over Method
and the enduring viability of the Arnoldian critical
temper. Though the criticism was occasionally some-
thing less than “simple” and “flexible,’”’ it was always
“sincere,” ‘‘ardent,” “ever widening... knowledge.”

 

ABOUT
THE
AUTHOR

George Washington Ray, III, is
an assistant professor of English
at Washington and Lee. During
the 1967-68 academic year he was
on leave as a fellow in the
Cooperative Program in_ the
Humanities sponsored by Duke
University and the University of
North Carolina, continuing a
critical study of the plays of
George Chapman, playwright for
the Elizabethan and Jacobean
stage. He is a graduate of Wes-
leyan University, Colgate Uni-
versity, and the University of
Rochester, from which he re-
ceived his Ph.D. degree. He
joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1964.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

ALUMNI WEEKEND

LUMNI WEENEND 1968—April 26-
A 27—brought to the campus
more than goo Washington and
Lee alumni, their wives, and their
guests.

The activities included two ad-
dresses by visiting lecturers, recep-
tions, dinners, campus tours, a golf
tournament, and several intercol-
legiate spring sports events.

Five returning classes — 1918,
1928, 1943, 1953, and 1958—held
reunion banquets. And at a Satur-
day morning business session of the
Alumni Association, these officers
were named: Frederick Bartenstein,
Jr., '41, of Rahway, N. J., president;
John L. Crist, Jr., ’45, of Charlotte,
N.C., vice president; and William
C. Baker, Jr., ’38, of Chicago, trea-
surer.

Mr. Bartenstein, administrative
vice president of Merck & Co., Inc.,
and a lawyer, succeeded Dr. James
W. Priest, '43, of Dayton, Ohio.
Mr. Crist, an industrial developer
and investor, succeeded Thomas C.
Frost, Jr., 50, of San Antonio. Mr.
Baker, a management consultant,
succeeded John M. Jones, III, °37,
of Greeneville, ‘Tenn.

University President Robert E.
R. Huntley addressed the return-
ing alumni at a luncheon at Evans
Dining Hall at noon Saturday.
The alumni also heard the Hon.
Albert V. Bryan, Circuit Judge,
United States Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit, deliver the an-
nual John Randolph Tucker Lec-
ture in Lee Chapel. They also had
an opportunity to hear a talk by
Dr. Kenneth E. Boulding, professor
of economics at the University of
Michigan and president of the
American Economic Association.
His subject was “Stable Peace as
an Objective of National Policy.”

several fraternities held recep-
tions and dinners for the alumni.

SPRING 1968

 

BARTENSTEIN
President

 

BAKER CRIST
Treasurer

Vice President

 

Law Association Meeting

 

Jupce Bryan delivers the Tucker Lecture
in Lee Chapel.

HE ANNUAL MEETING of the

Washington and Lee Law
School Association, the law alumni
organization, coincided this year
with the Reunion Weekend of the
Washington and Lee Alumni As-
sociation April 26-27.

The major event was the delivery
of the annual John Randolph
Tucker Lecture by the Hon. Albert
V. Bryan of Alexandria, Va., Cir-
cuit Judge, United States Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.

Judge Bryan’s lecture dealt with
his proprosals and alternatives for
swifter processing of criminal ap-
peals to protect the public as well as
the accused. He called for reducing

the time from the prevalent six
months to about 25 days, suggesting
more extensive use of oral presenta-
tion, the elimination of briefs or at
least the submission of simultane-
ous briefs, the waiving of the print-
ing of briefs, and screening out
frivolous appeals at an early date
in the process.

Judge Bryan’s lecture in its final
form will be published in the Wash-
ington and Lee Law Review.

During the business session, the
Law Association elected the follow-
ing officers: Marvin C. Bowling, Jr.,
'51, of Richmond, president; John
G. Fox, '49, of Washington, D. C.,
vice president; Andrew McThenia,
'6g3, of the Law School faculty,
secretary-treasurer; Miss Louise
Moore, Law Librarian, assistant
secretary-treasurer.

Mr. Bowling succeeded ‘Thomas
R. McNamara, ’52, of Norfolk, and
Mr. Fox succeeded Mr. Bowling in
the vice presidency.

Named to the Law Association
Council were John F. Kay, Jr., ‘55,
of Richmond, John Bell Towill,
’29, of Augusta, Ga., Robert E.
Glenn, ’53, of Roanoke, Va., Sam-
uel C. Davidson, ’57, of Bethesda,
Md., and Gilbert Bocetti, Jr., ‘54,
of Greensboro, N. C.

NEW ALUNNI BOARD MEMBERS

Emi C, RASSMAN, ‘41

Mr. Rassman of Midland,
Texas, has long been prom-
inent in legal and civic affairs
in the Southwest. He is pres-
ently chairman of the Board
of Regents of the senior col-
leges and university system of
Texas and was recently reap-
pointed to that office by Gov.
John Connally. A graduate of
the University of Texas Law
School, Mr. Rassman is senior
member of the law firm of
Rassman, Gunter & Boldrick.
He is a member of the Ameri-
can College of Trial Lawyers
and the International Acad-
emy of Trial Lawyers. A de-
voted alumnus of Washington
and Lee, he has served as class
agent for the annual fund and
as president of the West Tex-
as alumni chapter. He is mar-
ried to the former Annie de
Montel, and they have a son,
Neal, a student at Washing-
ton and Lee, and a daughter,
Laura, a student at Stratford
College in Danville, Va.

 

 

S. L. KOPALD, JR., '43

Mr. Kopald is executive vice
president of Humko Products,
Division of the National
Dairy Products Corp., Mem-
phis, Tenn. After receiving a
degree in industrial adminis-
tration from the Harvard
Graduate School of Business
Administration, he served
with the U.S. Army and was
discharged in 1946 with the
rank of captain. He joined
Humko in 1946, and that
same year married Mimi
Daves of Lexington, Va.,
daughter of a prominent Lex-
ingtonian, Ralph Daves. The
Kopalds have four children.
Mr. Kopald is presently a di-
rector of Union Planters Na-
tional Bank, Youngtown, Inc.,
and Business Music Corp., all
of Memphis. He is also a di-
rector of Ideal Mutual Insur-
ance Co. of New York. He is
also chairman of the Board of
Governors of Hebrew Union
College—the Jewish Institute
of Religion, former director
and chairman of the Memphis
Branch of the Federal Reserve
Bank of St. Louis, former
president of the Memphis Ro-
tary Club, and director of the
Community Chest and the
American Red Cross.

 

RICHARD H. TurRRELL, ’49

Mr. Turrell is vice president
of the Fiduciary Trust Co. of
New York. Before joining the
bank, he was with the Dela-
ware, Lakawana Western
Coal Co. and held the posi-
tion of assistant to the presi-
dent from 1953 to 1958. He al-
so was with the brokerage
firm of Auchincloss, Parker,
and Redpath before joining
Fiduciary in 1961. He _ has
been very active in Washing-
ton and Lee alumni affairs,
serving as president of the
New York alumni chapter
from 1964 to 1966. He is a
Mason and a Shriner, and
when he is not pursuing fi-
nancial matters he enjoys golf-
ing. He is married to the
former Sally Ann Wolfe. They
and their three sons live in
Short Hills, N. J.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

LYNCHBURG

= LYNCHBURG ALUMNI honored E.
p. “Cy” Twombly, retiring coach
and Athletic Director, at a meeting
Feb. 23 at the Boonesboro Country
Club. Twombly was given the
“Lynchburg Citation” which was
presented by Bert Schewel, ‘41.
Head football coach and newly
named Athletic Director, Lee Mc-
Laughlin, paid tribute to Twombly,
citing the fine records which many
of Cy’s teams have made. Several
University officials attended, and
the evening’s highlight was a speech
by Washington and Lee’s President,
Robert E. R. Huntley. S. James
Thompson, Jr., 57, retiring chap-
ter president, presided at _ the
banquet meeting. A report from the
nominating committee chairman
placed Irving Lynn in the office of
chapter president for 1968. His
election was unanimous. Arrange-
ments for the outstanding affair
were made by John Alford, 57.

RICHMOND

RICHMOND CHAPTER and
Washington and Lee University
joined forces to honor the Wash-
ington and Lee members ef the
General Assembly of Virginia. The
highly successful affair, one of the
largest and finest in recent years,
featured a formal dinner-dance at
the Country Club of Virginia on
Friday evening, March 1. Univer-
sity President and Mrs. Huntley,
with Mr. and Mrs. Robert J.
Smith, ’46, chapter president, were
hosts to a group of 17 distinguish-
ed legislators and the Honorable
Fred C. Pollard, lieutenant gov-
ernor, who represented the Com-
monwealth in the absence of Gov-
ernor Godwin. In addition to
President Huntley the University
was represented by nine members
of the administration and_ their
wives. William H. Adeloff, '57, vice
president of the chapter, presented
the members of the legislature.
President Huntley introduced those

@ THE

SPRING 1968

  
  

~—

yf

"DSi laa) Seascale
. JI. Gen
WW Pom

ey

~

Saal

E. P. “Cy” Twos y (left) receives the “Lynchburg Award” from Bert SCHEWEL, ‘41.

NEWS of the CHAPTERS

‘ \ ;

.
w , «4

 

 
   
    
   

| |

A !

UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT Ropert E. R. Huntiey (second from left seated) joins Richmond
alumni in honoring Washington and Lee members of the Virginia General Assembly.

 

Members of Richmond Chapter have dinner before formal dance.

from the campus, expressed Wash-
ington and Lee’s pride in the work
of the Washington and Lee mem-
bers of the General Assembly and
gave a brief report on the status of
the University upon his assumption
of its presidency. The formal din-
ner-dance, an annual affair of the
chapter, was an outstanding event
and thoroughly enjoyable to all.

NEW ORLEANS

= AMONG THE ACTIVITIES prior to
Mardi Gras was a meeting of the
Alumni Chapter members at Del-
monico’s famous restaurant Feb. 2.
The assembled members and their
wives heard Bill Washburn, na-
tional executive secretary, report on
the University and extend a special

7

 

greeting from the new president
of Washington and Lee, Robert E.

R. Huntley. Chapter president,
Dudley Flanders, ’56, presided over
the dinner meeting which also
heard reports from John H. Mc-
Millan, ’42, and Jimmy Hammett,
‘40, who had attended the Special
Conference for Chapter Representa-
tives on campus in October, 1967.
University trustee, Joe Lykes, Jr.,
‘41, extended official thanks to the
chapter for its past services and
urged its continued support of
Washington and Lee. A motion was
made and unanimously approved
that the New Orleans chapter insti-
tute a system of voluntary chapter
dues. Flanders adjourned the meet-
ing with an announcement that a
chapter directory would be compil-
ed and distributed to each mem-
ber.

LOUISVILLE

= ARRIVING BY PULLMAN at the
Louisville & Nashville Railroad
Station, Dean Frank Gilliam and
Bill Washburn were officially met
by A. T. Bishop, Jr., '41, A. R.
Boden, Jr., ‘52, and Charlie
Castner, Jr., ’52. The occasion was
the celebration of Washington's
Birthday, Feb. 22, and a large num-
ber of alumni, friends, and their
wives attended a beautiful recep-
tion and banquet in honor of the

8

PONS

JAcK WARD, ‘39.

guests at the Louisville Country
Club. Dean Gilliam was featured
speaker. In the required absence of
the chapter’s president, John R.
Farmer, ’61, the meeting was ex-
pertly handled by Gus Boden. John
H. Hardwick, °31, president of
Louisville Trust Co., expressed wel-
come to Dean Gilliam from the
chapter and introduced the guests.
Gilliam’s remarks about Washing-
ton and Lee were spliced with
humorous stories about many of the
alumni with whom he was so fa-
miliar over the years. The ladies
and gentlemen had a truly memor-
able and enjoyable evening.

PENSACOLA

m™ FRIDAY EVENING, Feb. 16, the
Washington and Lee _ basketball
squad met the University of West
Florida on the courts of the Pensa-
cola High School gym. While the
Generals lost by a score of 65 to
84, the enthusiasm and support of
the large gathering of alumni
abounded on all sides. The festivi-
ties started with a party for all
alumni at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Sherrill, ’60, at 6:30
p.m. and, after the game, continued
at a local night-spot, Rosie O’-
Gradys. Several members of the
Mobile Chapter came over for the
occasion.

 

’

At left JAcK HaRwIck, '31, GeoRGE GANS, '61, MARK Davis, ‘56,
and Mrs. Davis enjoy cocktails before dinner at Louisville meet-

ing. Above DEAN GILLIAM (second from right) is shown with
(left to right) Bor STEIN, '41, NorRM ILER, '37, Mrs. WOODWARD,
Junre Bisnop, '41, Dick Day, 41, Mrs. BisHop, Mrs. ILER, and

SAN ANTONIO

m= THE EXECUTIVE SECRETARY, Bill
Washburn, visited San Antonio
Feb. 5. He visited the local high
schools in connection with student
recruitment. Also his San Antonio
itinerary included a tour of Hemis-
Fair, conducted by Marshall Steves,
‘44, and Ganahl Walker, ’40. Plans
were made for “W&L Day at
HemisFair—July 12.” Local alumni
honored Washburn with a lovely
dinner at LaFonda of Oakhills.
Election of officers was held, and
Brentano Harnisch, ’39, was named
chapter president for the coming
year.

HOUSTON

= THE ALUMNI OF the Houston chap-
ter entertained with cocktails and
dinner Feb. 6, 1968, at the Briar
Club. The featured guest for the
occasion was Bill Washburn, alum-
ni secretary. Washburn had visited
the local high schools in the after-
noon. His remarks addressed to the
parents of current students as well
as alumni was a “thumb-nail” re-
port on the University. He advised
the chapter of the plans on July
12 for a Washington and Lee Day
at HemisFair and a committee con-
sisting of Ben Ditto, Bob Davis,
Tom Anderson, Gordon Gooch and
Temple Webber was appointed to
coordinate the effort. In a short

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

At New York’s Essex House, alumni honor PresipENT Robert E. R. HUNTLEY at a gala
dinner.

business session the following were
elected as officers of the chapter for
the ensuing year: Temple Webber,
president; Gordon Gooch, Foxy
Benton, Buzzy Griffin, vice presi-
dent.

WEST ‘TEXAS

= CONTINUING HIS Texas chapter
visitations, Secretary Washburn at-
tended an elegant meeting and re-
ception in Midland, Texas. Alumni
of the chapter were guests of Mr.
and Mrs. Emil Rassman at a cock-
tail party at the Midland Country
Club on Feb. g. It was Washburn’s
first visit to the West Texas Chap-
ter, and the evening was remark-
able. Many alumni and _ guests
stayed at the club for dinner and
dancing. The W&L Swing was fea-
tured by the orchestra throughout
the evening and everyone joined in
resounding song. Prior to dinner
color slides of the campus were
shown and many developments at
Washington and Lee were discuss-
ed. President Rassman received the
sincere thanks from all alumni for
his active interest in recruiting stu-

dents and for keeping alumni
Organized.

SPRING 1968

NORTH TEXAS

= THE INN OF SIX FLAGS was the
setting for an alumni meeting on
Feb. 7. Alumni and parents of cur-
rent students from the Dallas-Ft.
Worth area joined to hear Bill
Washburn, alumni secretary, who
showed slides and gave a short Uni-
versity report. With C. M. “Pat”
Patrick, Washburn had met with
Dallas prospective students and was
scheduled to visit the Ft. Worth
high schools the next day with Clay
Berry and Bob Collett. His remarks
explained how alumni could help
and did help with student recruit-
ment. Special greetings were
brought from the new president of
the University, Robert E. R. Hunt-
ley. Washburn reported that Presi-
dent Huntley expected to visit
Texas in July. Arrangements for
the meeting were made by the chap-
ter’s president, Maury Purnell, Jr.

NEW YORK

@ IN THE RESPLENDENT style of Fifth
Avenue and with the excitement of
Broadway, the alumni of the New
York Metropolitan area welcomed
President Robert E. R. and Mrs.
Huntley with a black-tie dinner on

March 2g. The outstanding affair
was held at The Essex House on
Central Park and began with a re-
ception at 7 o'clock. Chapter Presi-
dent, Mel Hicks, Jr., 52, Emmett
Poindexter, ’20, and their ladies,
together with the Huntleys, receiv-
ed one of the largest number of
alumni in recent years. Also at-
tending from Washington and Lee
were Dean and Mrs. James Farrar,
‘49, Mr. and Mrs. James White-
head, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Parsons,
54, and Mr. and Mrs. William
Washburn, ’40. The featured speak-
er at the dinner was President
Huntley who gave an overview of
the University as he saw it upon
assuming the presidency in Febru-
ary. His comments about and his
analysis of Washington and Lee
were eagerly received.

Chapter President Hicks, presid-
ed, and a committee of ladies
headed by Mrs. Hicks had arranged
attractive prizes for each table
which were won on a simple game
of chance. A small orchestra, in-
cluding a roving violinist, furnish-
ed dinner music, and the hall
resounded on several occasions with
renditions of “The Swing.”’ Words
of thanks were expressed to Tom
Perkins, ’53, who had made the
splendid arrangements with the
hotel.

In a short business session, Rich-
ard Turrell, ’49, reported for the
nominating committee. Richard R.
Warren, '57, of Scarsdale was named
the new chapter president; six vice-
presidents were named: E. Ran-
dolph Wootton, ’64, W. L. Webster,
‘12, Richard Brunn, ’42, Tom
Perkins, ’53, The Rev. Roper Sham-
hart, '47, and Steve Calef, ’62. Re-
elected secretary-treasurer was Em-
mett Poindexter, ’20, and nine
members of the council were
named.

Many of Washington and Lee’s
most distinguished alumni were
present, and President and Mrs.
Huntley expressed sincere thanks
on behalf of the University for such
an outstanding affair.

BU es

a!
¥.

 

 

VE ee
SS AE SAS SAS SE SS SE NS FAL AN

<

SAC A

WASHINGTON

and
LEE
MEN

Of)

the
VIRGINIA

Sa
”
[aed

B E N C H youll W. EGGLESTON

RECENT STUDY HAS shown that judicial positions
A throughout the Commonwealth of Virginia are
held to a large extent by graduates of Washington and
Lee University.

The finding is pleasing and also somewhat sur-
prising. Look at it in this context:

For many years the University has been distin-
guished for having one of “the most widely distribut-
ed student bodies geographically” of any of the men’s
colleges in the United States. The School of Law has
reflected much the same characteristic, not only in
the students in attendance, but very strongly in law
graduates who are influential in their profession, in
practice, and on the bench over the country as a whole.
The large number of Washington and Lee men who
are current judges in Virginia takes on added signifi-
cance, therefore, when it is noted that the Washington
and Lee Law School enrolls a far smaller number of
students from Virginia than the state’s other three
schools of law.

At the top judicial level in the state, two of the

 

ARCHIBALD C. BUCHANAN

 

seven justices of the State Supreme Court of Appeals
are Washington and Lee graduates: Chief Justice
John W. Eggleston, A.B. '06, M.A. ’07, LL.B. ‘10,
LL.D. ’49, of Norfolk, who is also the chairman of
the Judicial Council, and the president of the Judicial
Conference; and Justice Archibald C. Buchanan,
LL.B. '14 and LL.D. '49, of Tazewell.

Two alumni holding Federal judicial office in Vir-
ginia are both judges of the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, in
Norfolk: Judge Walter E. Hoffman, LL.B. ’31, and
the recently elevated John C. A. MacKenzie, LL.B. ’39.

Of the 58 Circuit Court Judges of the state, 10
hold their degrees from Washington and Lee. They
are as follows:

4th Circuit (Amelia, Dinwiddie, Nottoway, and
Powhatan counties, and the city of Petersburg): D.
Carleton Mayes, LL.B. ‘47, of Dinwiddie. (Judge
Mayes is also on the Judicial Conference.)

18th Circuit (Augusta, Highland, and Rockbridge

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

counties, and the cities of Buena Vista, Lexington and
Staunton): Paul A. Holstein, LL.B. ’32, of Lexington.

21st Circuit (Carroll, Grayson, Pulaski, and Wythe
counties): Jack M. Matthews, LL.B. ’32, of Galax.

21st Circuit (Carroll, Grayson, Pulaski, and Wythe
counties): Alexander M. Harman, LL.B. ’44, of
Pulaski.

23 Circuit (Smyth and Washington counties, and
the city of Bristol): J. Aubrey Matthews, B.S. ’42,
LL.B. '48, of Marion.

33rd Circuit (Wise county): Macon M. Long, Jr.,
LL.B. ’43, of St. Paul.

84th Circuit (Halifax, Lunenburg, and Mecklen-
burg counties, and the city of South Boston): Gus
E. Mitchell, Jr., B.A. 30, LL.B. ’31, of Halifax.

35th Circuit (Arlington county): Paul D. Brown,
A.B. '41, LL.B. ’43, of Arlington.

37th Circuit (Chesterfield county and city of
Colonia] Heights): Ernest P. Gates, LL.B. ’50, of
Chesterfield.

SPRING 1968

ALEXANDER M. HARMAN

  
    

DoucLas M. SMITH (left) and HERBERT S. SMITH
at 1953 Commencement

38th Circuit (City of Portsmouth): Henry W. Mac-
Kenze, Jr., LL.B. ’32, of Portsmouth.

The 16th Circuit Court is also presided over by
a Washington and Lee alumnus who took his Law
degree elsewhere, Arthur W. Sinclair, of the Academic
Class of 1937.

Four of 11 Corporation Court judges are from
Washington and Lee, as follows:

Alexandria: Wiley R. Wright, Jr., B.S. 54, LL.B.
56.

Lynchburg: O. Raymond Cundiff, LL.B. ’33.

Martinsville: Frank I. Richardson, Jr., A.B. °51,
LL.B. ’56.

Newport News: Douglas M. Smith, B.A. ’51, LL.B.
53-

Three alumni are judges in Hustings Courts:

R. Winston Bain, LL.B. ’39, of Portsmouth.

Richard T. Edwards, A.B. ’33, LL.B. ’35, of Roa-
noke.

J. Randolph Tucker, Jr., LL.B. ’48, of Richmond.

11

 

 

Macon M. LONG, Jr,

 

ARTHUR W. SINCLAIR

A. CHRISTIAN COMPTON

City Courts of Record other than Corporation and
Hustings Courts have two Washington and Lee
judges:

Stanford Fellers, LL.B., ’13, Law and Chancery
Court, Roanoke.

A. Christian Compton, B.A. ’50, LL.B. ’53, Rich-
mond,

A third jurist, Walter A. Page, of the Academic
Class of 1939, presides over the Law and Chancery
Court in Norfolk.

The following alumni, listed with their residences,
are County Court Judges, for the counties named
after their residences:

Henry M. Bandy, LL.B., '33, Norton, for Wise
county.

B. Hunter Barrow, LL.B. ’21, Dinwiddie, for
Dinwiddie county.

James M. Davidson, Jr., B.A. ’38, LL.B. °44, Lex-
ington, for Rockbridge county.

Francis M. Hoge, LL.B. ’34, Marion, for Smyth
county,

Philip Kohen, LL.B. ‘21, Fincastle, for Botetourt
county.

12

 

Henry W. MACKENZIE

F. Nelson Light, LL.B. ’42, Chatham, for Pittsyl-
vania county.

Malcolm H. MacBryde, Jr., B.S. ’26, LL.B. "29,
Martinsville, for Henry county.

Leslie L. Mason, Jr., LL.B. ’51, Powhatan, for
Powhatan county.

Robert B. Spencer, LL.B. '51, Buckingham, for
Buckingham county.

John W. Tisdale, LL.B. ’21, Clarksville, for Meck-
lenburg county.

J. Taylor Williams, LL.B.’53, Cumberland, for
Cumberland county.

Charles F. P. Crawley, of the Academic class of
1934, is the judge for the county of Appomattox.

Washington and Lee University takes justifiable
pride in the accomplishments of these men and con-
gratulates them upon the service they are rendering
to the administration of justice and to the Common-
wealth of Virginia.

(It is possible that the foregoing lists may have
omitted unintentionally some Washington and Lee
alumni on the Virginia bench. If so, the editors regret
the omission.)

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

I HH LCR POE BP EO A OR OED meet +

oon

ee ee ee eee

<r CRE Or et em hetet eee me et me pee ee >

<8 ee ene

+

ee

 

 

“
~~

te
_ - +. _
o a whee, Te
: ae ae? Se
ws » - Fp
:
nae obs

 

    

  

eh “ore
“Se

 

 

—

eton an

 

oe. StS ier sk

At opal en Aly swe)
> ae @ >
or

oo ee eee s+

 

;
'
et
|
5 i
i
’
;
}
'
;
;

- oe
” x . .
. : oe a a
° >
* - ;
~
a
ae So. 2 ;
3
9 sey an a
SF nde x
a
> ~~
7

 

 

 

A LETTER
FROM
DEAN LIGHT

This letter is written on the day of
Dean-emeritus Clayton E. Williams’ death
at the age of 77, during his forty-ninth con-
secutive year as a member of the Law
Faculty of Washington and Lee University.
Dean Williams was one of the great teach-
ers of the law. His loss will be deeply felt
not only in the University community and
the State, but throughout the country by the
hundreds of students he has taught or
counseled while Dean of the School of Law
from 1944 until 1960.

Among the numerous events scheduled
during the spring of 1968 I wish to call
particular attention to the Burks Moot
Court Competion held on April 19 and to
Law Day, April 27, when the John Ran-
dolph ‘Tucker Lecture was delivered by the
Honorable Albert V. Bryan of Alexandria,
Virginia, Judge of the United States Court
of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Law Day

activities, including the annual meeting of

the Law School Association, coincided this
year with the Anniversary Class Reunions
of the Academic and Law Classes of ‘18,
'28, '43, 53 and ’58.

[ welcome this opportunity to extend
sincere best wishes to President Robert E.
R. Huntley with full confidence that the
University will prosper under his able lead-
ership. At the recent annual and most suc-
cessful Law Wives Bridge Benefit I observ-
ed that by rights Dean Huntley should be
speaking the words of welcome, but that
my appearance for this purpose was some-
what lightened by the thought that not
often is one privileged to succeed one’s
successor. Despite such privilege, candor
impels me to say that my interim resump-
tion of administrative duties has not less-
ened the enthusiasm with which I con-
template a return to full time teaching.

CHARLES P. LiGut, ]R., Dean

 

 

 

 

 

New Benchmarks
In the History
Of the Law School

By Jerr Reimer and ERIc SISLER

HE SCHOOL OF LAW of Washington and Lee Univer-
hae began its history in the summer of 1849 when
the Hon. John W. Brockenbrough, Judge of the Dis-
trict Court of the United States for the Western Dis-
trict of Virginia, announced that he planned to open a
law school in the town of Lexington. According to the
prospectus of the Lexington Law School, the session
would open on October 29, 1849, and close on March
16, 1850. Two classes would be establised, but would
be offered concurrently so that an enterprising stu-
dent could enroll in both classes without additional
expense, thus completing the junior and senior courses
in one year. The tuition was fixed at $60.00 per session,
payable in advance. At the close of that first session,
the Lexington Law School graduated five men.

The Lexington Law School, which was an im-
mediate success, flourished and under the guidance of
Judge Brockenbrough continued uninterrupted until
the outbreak of the Civil War. The rolls of the school,
published in 1881, indicated that 207 men attended
its classes down to 1861. Although the school remained
closed during the war years, it was promptly reopened
on the first Monday of July, 1865, with a program
much the same as before the war. It was at this time
that Judge Brockenbrough, as a member of the Board
of Trustees of Washington College, was instrumental
in persuading General Robert E. Lee to become the
President of Washington College. As part of President
Lee’s program of expansion for the College, the Lex-
ington Law School became the affiliated Law School
of Washington College.

In 1869 a report from the Trustees indicated that
a single professor could no longer undertake all of
the teaching and in addition noted the need for a
broader curriculum and additional space. The com-
mittee concluded by recommending the appointment
of two professors of law with salaries and prerequisites
sufficient to attract the most impressive legal minds
of the nation. The noble aspirations of the Trustees
were fulfilled when, in 1870, John Randolph Tucker

At the top of a soaring ladder a workman gives a fresh coat of
paint to a third-floor window of Tucker Hall.

accepted a professorship of law. In 1873 Charles A.
Graves was appointed as Assistant Professor and em-
barked upon a career which was to span gg years. The
combination of Tucker and Graves lasted only two
years, for in 1874 Tucker was elected to Congress
where he served in a most distinguished capacity until
1887.

Professor Graves directed the activities of the Law
School most admirably, although the next 14 years
showed little increase in enrollment or facilities. In
1581, after 13 years in Congress, John Randolph
Tucker rejoined the faculty bringing much national
prestige to the Washington and Lee School of Law.

The return of Tucker marked the beginning of a
“Golden Age” during the closing decade of the cen-
tury. In 1890 Professors Tucker and Graves appeared
before the Board of Trustees with recommendations
for improving and enlarging the Law School. Higher
standards were initiated, new courses including Crimi-
nal Procedure, Admiralty Law, Insurance, and Agency
were added to the curriculum. A third professor, John
W. Davis, was appointed to the faculty in 1896. This
appointment was timely, for unfortunately in 1897
John Randolph Tucker died after an illness of over
a year.

Harry St. George Tucker, son of John Randolph
Tucker, was chosen Professor of Law in 1897. A
memorial fund was initiated and on June 13, 1899,
the John Randolph Tucker memorial building be-
came a reality as the cornerstone was laid with ap-
propriate Masonic ceremonies. The building was com-
pleted in the spring of 1goo, a large gray stone struc-
ture, described by the Lexington Gazette as presenting
a “striking contrast” to the other college buildings.

By 1911-1912 the enrollment of the Law School
had risen to 207. As early as 1902 the catalogue
strongly recommended that a student have at least
one year of academic work before engaging in the
study of law, though this was not a requirement. In
1905, upon faculty recommendation, the Board of
Trustees authorized that the Law degree take two
years, and in 1906 the form of degree was changed
from B.L. to LL.B.

In 1914-15 the trustees, influenced by the fact that
most leading law schools in the country functioned
under a three-year program, unanimously adopted a
resolution which in effect instigated a three-year pro-
gram at Washington and Lee, although this remained
optional until 1920.

Following the First World War five full-time teach-
crs comprised the faculty and the curriculum was
modernized. At this time the Law School also adopted
the “case method” of study, and in 1920 Washington
and Lee Law School was admitted to the Association
of American Law Schools. In 1923, two years of col-

4

lege work was required for admission, and it was of
much significance that in this same year the American
Bar Association gave Washington and Lee Law School
a “Class A” rating, a classification enjoyed at the time
by only 39 American law schools.

The faculty continued to increase in size and
esteem, and by 1930 it included the late Professor
Clayton E. Williams, (LL.B. Washington and Lee),
who joined the faculty in 1919, Professor Charles P.
Light, Jr., (LL.B. Harvard), Professor Raymond T.
Johnson, (J.D. Chicago), Professor Charles R. Mc-
Dowell, (LL.B. Yale), and William Hayward More-
land, who was appointed Dean in 1923 and served
in that capacity until his death in 1944. This staff
remained with the University through the thirties, and
additions were made to the faculty in the persons
of Professor Theodore A. Smedley (J.D., Northwest-
ern) and Professor Charles V. Laughlin (J.S.D.
Chicago),

In December of 1934 Tucker Hall was destroyed
by fire. Plans were immediately made for a new struc-
ture more in accord with the architectural pattern of
the Washington College group, the result being the
present law school building.

The impact of the Second World War nearly
necessitated the closing of the Law School as numer-
ous students and faculty abandoned their studies
to serve their country. However, at the war's con-
clusion an unprecedented number of students sought
admittance to Tucker Hall. The late Professor Wil-
liams became Dean, and aided by a full complement
of professors, the Law School once again became de-
serving of the excellent reputation it had enjoyed in
previous years.

In the decades since the war, the Law School has
moved rapidly forward in the area of legal education
along much the same lines that contributed to the
centennial of achievement that was celebrated in
1949. The important advantage of remaining small
has been maintained in a day and age when double
and treble student enrollment is common place. At
the same time the faculty has consistently increased
and the student-teacher ratio has known only con-
tinued improvement. The curriculum has been up-
dated to meet the demands of a more complex society
and its correlative, a more complex system of justice.
The school has continued to enjoy faculty and leader-
ship dedicated to furthering the achievements of their
distinguished predecessors.

Certainly one of the most notable changes of the
past 20 years has been in the curriculum of the law
school. Total coverage of the many areas of the law
has never been the goal at Washington and Lee:
instead, emphasis is placed upon building the dis-
cipline and intellectual tools necessary to solve the

ee ee eS ee

i it i i

—_—

 

 

 

iain

 

Scaffolding is outward sign of physical changes occuring inside
the Law School building.

diverse and unanticipated problems that will confront
the practicing attorney. However, in response to the
ever changing character of the law, the curriculum
has been continually expanded to meet new horizons.
Additional courses in Tax Law, Labor Law, Interna-
tional Law and International Business Transactions
have been added to update the curriculum. More
recently, in response to an SBA survey, two new
courses, Jurisprudence and American Legal History,
have been added to the curriculum this year. The
prospects for the future are just as encouraging. The
new accent, as explained by Dean Robert E. R.
Huntley, will be an expansion of classes conducted
by the seminar method. This method is one in which
the student-teacher ratio is quite low, and in addition
may include the elimination of the final examination,
and the student is encouraged to do individual re-
search and writing.

The building of a capable faculty has been another
important project of the post war period. Between
the years 1948 and 1963, the law school added seven
new faculty members. In the fall of 1948 Edward S.
Graves (LL.B. Harvard) began to donate his services
to the law school. Shortly, thereafter, in 1953, Pro-
fessors Wilfred J. Ritz (S.J.D. Harvard) and James W.
H. Stewart (LL.M. Harvard) joined the faculty. Five
years later, our recent dean, Robert E. R. Huntley
(LL.M. Harvard) became a member of the faculty.

In 1960 Clayton E. Williams retired from the dean-
ship to assume the position as Distinguished Lecturer
on the Law of Property, and Charles P. Light
became the new Dean. During the seven years of Dean
Light's tenure, three more faculty members joined the
law school. Robert H. Gray (J.S.D. Columbia) and
Robert K. Rushing (LL.B. University of Mississippi)
in 1963 and in 1965 the Hon. James McC. Davidson,
Jr. (LL.B. Washington and Lee) joined the faculty
as lecturer on Domestic Relations.

This year marked another benchmark in the his-
tory of the law school. Dean Charles P. Light has
joined his late distinguished colleague, Clayton E.
Williams, as the second Dean Emeritus to continue
teaching at the law school, and Robert E. R. Huntley
became the new Dean. To continue past progress,
two new professors, Lewis H. LaRue (LL.B. Harvard)
and Andrew W. McThenia, Jr. (LL.B. Washington
and Lee) became faculty members in the fall of 1967.
In the spring of 1968 they were joined by two addi-
tional faculty members, Joseph E. Ulrich (LL.B. Wash-
ington and Lee) and William McC. Schildt (LL.B.
Washington and Lee). Dean Robert Huntley was
elevated to the presidency of the University and Dean
Emeritus Charles P. Light, Jr. was appointed Acting
Dean of the Law School until a new dean can be
named.

Physically, the law school is also changing. This
year the third floor classroom facilities and the Law
Review facilities have been enlarged. However, these
changes are only a portion of what the near future
holds. At present several plans are being considered,
their common purpose being a further enlargement
of the Law School. This enlargement would include
additional library space, additional study space in close
proximity to the library, additional student activity
space and new class and seminar rooms.

Yet, with all the change that has occured since
Judge Brockenbrough founded the Lexington Law
School in 1849, there has remained a certain sense of
continuity with past traditions. It is this continuity
that has served as a guide for so many past achicve-
ments and it appears that this same force will continue
to provide new roads into the future.

FOUR YOUNG MEN JOIN FACULTY

OUR NEW FACULTY MEMBERS were added to the Law

School this year. Two are natives of West Virginia,
and one is orginally from Maryland. All are very
familiar with Washington and Lee as each one at-
tended W&L in the past.

Mr. Andrew McThenia attended W&L for his
undergraduate studies, during which time he distin-
guished himself as a student and a leader. Besides
carning election to Phi Beta Kappa and graduating
with an A.B. degree Magna Cum Laude, he was presi-
dent of the Student Body. He was also a varsity foot-
ball letterman and was elected to Omicron Delta
Kappa. He graduated in 1958 after having been a
foreign exchange student in International Business
Training, and he continued his studies at Columbia
University earning a M.A. in 1960. He returned to
W&L and obtained his law degree in 1963. While in
Law School he was chosen Editor in Chief of the
Washington and Lee Law Review, and was elected
to Order of the Coif.

Mr. McThenia was admitted to the Bar in Virginia
and the District of Columbia, and went to work with
the firm of Boothe, Dudley, Koontz, Blankingship and
Stump in Alexandria, Va. He practiced with that
firm for four and a half years, until he returned to
W&L as an assistant professor this year. He is in charge
of the newly formed Placement Program and is teach-
ing Legal Bibliography, Secured Transactions, Legal
Ethics, and Creditor’s Rights.

Mr. Lewis LaRue also returned to his alma mater
as an assistant professor of law. While an undergradu-
ate at Washington and Lee in the late 1950's, Mr. La-
Rue was also very active in student affairs; he partici-
pated in such organizations as the Student Service
Society and the Ring-tum Phi. As a political science
major, he achieved many academic honors prior to his
graduation in 1959. He continued his education at
Harvard University receiving his LLB in 1962, and

Baie - Sar ees Rs es a
- of xn eee P 4 pee: -

|
ie

 

then he was admitted to practice in Virginia. While at
W&L as an undergraduate, he enrolled in the Marine
P.L.C. Program and was commissioned a Second Lieu-
tenant upon graduating. While on active duty with
the Marine Corps he worked extensively in the field
of Criminal Law. Following his military obligation, he
became a Trial Attorney for two divisions of the Jus-
tice Department in Washington, D. C. Working with
the Civil Rights Division he was kept very busy with
cases from the United States Court of Claims. He,
therefore, brings a wide and varied practical legal
background to W&L. He is teaching Property I and
II, Civil Procedure II, and Local Government.

The first of the February faculty additions is Mr.
William McC. Schildt, who is originally from Hagers-
town, Md. He graduated from W&L undergraduate
school in 1964. He attended law school in Maryland
for a brief time, and upon graduation from the Law
School this February he assumed teaching duties in
Agency and Briefmaking and Oral Argument. He, too,
was active at W&L, especially in serving as Editor of the
Law Review last semester as well as being president
of the Student Bar Association. He is a member of Phi
Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa.

The most recent addition to the Law Faculty is
Mr. Joseph Edward Ulrich, a native of Louisville, Ky.
After three years spent as an undergraduate at Wash-
ington and Lee, Mr. Ulrich spent three years studying
law here; he graduated from the Law School in 1961.
He immediately went to the Air Force JAG school
spending three years in the service. After working
with the firm of Washer and Kaplan in Louisville,
he began work on his Masters in Law at Indiana
University.

All these men are fine additions to the Law School
faculty. Their knowledge and ability will allow the
Law School to progress and continue to be the excel-
lent school that it now is.

New PROFEssors WILLIAM McC.
SCHILDT, JOsEPH E. ULricu, Lewis
H. LARuE, and ANDREW W. Mc-

 

THENIA, JR., relax between classes
at the Co-op.

 

 

—

 

 

 

 

Law Review Features Guest Articles

By Les SMITH

28-YEAR-OLD TRADITION of distinguished legal
A journalism will be embodied in the fall 1967
and spring 1968 issues of The Washington and Lee
Law Review. In a recent survey by the Denver Law
Journal, the Washington and Lee Law Review ranked
1oth out of 102 law reviews across the country for its
helpfulness and value in the field of legal scholarship.
This rating was determined on the basis of the re-
sponses from persons in the legal profession who have
had occasion to read the Review.

This year, Mr. Lewis H. LaRue replaced Dr. Wil-
fred J. Ritz as Faculty Editor as the Review continued
its high quality of accuracy and authoritativeness. Edi-
tor-in-Chief of the fall edition, Volume XXV, Number
1, was William M. Schildt who was ably assisted by
a staff which included Ronald K. Ingoe, Michael L.
Lowry, Bruce Jackson, Stafford W. Keegin (comment
editors); Larry E. Hepler (articles); Wayne Tucker
(research); and Charles M. Berger (book review).

The spring edition which is now being prepared
is spearheaded by ‘Ronald K. Ingoe, Editor-in-Chief.
Serving on his staff is Gilbert Faulk, managing editor;
Charles M. Berger, Bruce Jackson, Stafford W. Keegin,
Michael L. Lowry (comment editors); Larry E. Hepler
(articles); and Dean Vegosen (note editor).

The Review is published twice a year by the stu-
dent staff under the supervision of the Board of Stu-
dent Editors and the Board of Faculty Editors. Mem-
bership is based upon scholarship, and invitations are
extended to students having a cumulative average of
80 or more for two consecutive semesters.

A highight of the fall edition will be a contribution
by Dr. Wilfred J. Ritz of the Washington and Lee
Law faculty. Dr. Ritz’s article will deal with the Ninth
Amendment to the Constitution. It will discuss the
historical intent and purpose of the amendment and
Suggest some of the purposes it might serve today.
In addition, that issue will contain an article by Dr.

Charles F. Phillips, Jr., of the School of Commerce,
Washington and Lee University, and co-author Har-
mon Haynes of the Federal Reserve Bank, Richmond,
Virginia, which will present the results of a five-year
survey on the effects of the Virginia Banking and
Holding Companies statute since its enactment in
1962.

A special feature of the spring edition will be
several lead articles. Sen. Phillip A. Hart of Michigan
will discuss “Anti-Trust Legislation”; Dr. Charles V.
Laughlin of the Washington and Lee law faculty wil!
review “Labor Law in Virginia’; and William E.
Knepper, a Columbus, Ohio, attorney, will discuss
“The Automobile Compensation Controversy.” ‘There
will also be a student note entitled “Revocation of
Drivers’ Licenses in Virginia.”

As in past years, the range of student comment for
both issues wil be broad. The writers will examine
such problems as the Miranda decision, ethical prob-
lems in light of a recent Virginia case, In re Ryder,
and various other problem areas such as criminal law,
civil rights, labor, insurance, tax, trade regulation, etc.

In order to assure the accuracy and completeness
of these comments, there is an extensive procedure
that is required of each writer. Each is assigned to a
student editor who reviews the comment initially. The
writer is then scheduled for class criticism where the
comment is carefully checked to make certain that
each proposition of law is supported by reliable
authority and that all citations are accurate. Upon
the approval of the student comment editor, the com-
ment is forwarded to the editor-in-chief for his ap-
proval and that of the Faculty Editor. The objective
is to secure an authoritative analysis of one single
aspect of law that is worthy of publication in the
Review.

The Book Review section will include book re-
views by outside attorneys, professors and students of
the law. The books are selected because of their in-
terest to both lay readers and legal scholars.

LEGAL AID PROGRAM IS INITIATED

 

   

By PRoressor CHARLES V. LAUGHLIN

ILBERT FAULK, JAMES SLATTERY, Winston Matthews
G and Gordon Gay of the Washington and Lee
Law School did interesting and useful work during
the summer of 1967 with the Legal Aid Society of
Roanoke Valley and the Southern Regional Educa-
tion Board of Atlanta. They were joined by Gordon
Shapiro and Daniel Chichester of the University of
Virginia Law School for a total staff of six.

The Legal Aid Society of Roanoke Valley was
established about a year ago to provide legal services
for the poor. From its inception it has operated under
the leadership of Mr. Arnold Schlossberg, General
Counsel, an able and experienced lawyer. Financial
support comes both from local sources and from funds
provided by the Office of Economic Opportunity. The
Southern Regional Education Board (S.R.E.B.) with
headquarters in Atlanta was established by legislative
action in 15 Southern states pursuant to a compact
between those states. It exists for the purpose of giving
technical aid and assistance to the creating states, their
municipalities, educational institutions, and private
companies in those states. The $.R.E.B. is financed by
the creating states along with federal government sub-
sidies.

Shortly after the formation of the Roanoke Valley
Legal Aid Society, Mr. Schlossberg concluded that it
would be mutually advantageous to employ several
law students during the summer of 1967. Such a pro-
gram was designed to give practical legal experience
to the students, and to aid the society in its regular
work as well as in the preparation of memoranda for
future use. Simultaneously, $.R.E.B. established a pro-
gram to use university students, including law  stu-
dents, as interns in connection with all phases of the
current action against poverty. When each of these
organizations became aware of the parallel activities
planned by the other, the two programs were merged
for operational purposes. For accounting reasons, one
of the W&L law students was carried by S.R.E.B.,
but all six did the same work and operated as a team.
Sandra Gay, the wife of Gordon Gay, acted as secre-
tary for the group.

The work performed was divided into two phases:
(1) work in the office of the Legal Aid Society in Roa-
noke, and (2) work involving legal research in the
Washington and Lee Law Library. Both types of work
were performed by the Washington and Lee interns

GILBERT FAULK visits a jail cell to review the facts of a case
with an indigent client.

 

 

 

FAULK researches the law after interviewing the client in prepara-
tion for the trial.

upon a rotation basis: three men were always working
in the Roanoke office and three worked under Profes-
sor Laughlin’s supervision in Lexington. While in
Roanoke, they worked under the supervision of Mr.
Schlossberg and each was assigned to assist a staff
attorney,

While working in the Roanoke office the interns
were given a large amount of responsibility and were
treated as members of the legal staff. They performed
such duties as interviewing clients and witnesses,
working with various offices of the community action
sroup, helping stafl investigators, writing letters for
Stafl attorneys, picking up clients for court, drafting
legal papers, accompanying attorneys to court, and
researching and writing legal memoranda on various
legal problems that arose.

Some examples of the various types of cases and

 

legal problems the interns worked on are: divorce,
support of wife, support of minors, landlord-tenant,
detinue, custody, change of name, bankruptcy, extra-
dition, petit larceny, hit and run, and driving under
the influence of intoxicants.

The interns usually accompanied the staff at-
torneys to court when cases the interns had been
working on were being tried. This allowed the intern
to receive experience in observing the course of legal
proceding and at the same time proved to be helpful
to the trial attorney. In some instances, the presiding
judges invited the students into their chambers to
hear arguments on instructions.

At Lexington the interns performed several im-
portant functions. They did legal research upon sev-
eral important subjects to be used in connection with
the future work of the Roanoke office. They prepared
speeches to be used by Roanoke attorneys in con-
nection with an educational program to acquaint mem-
bers of the community, likely to need legal services, of
the importance of consulting the Legal Aid office.
They did research upon specific questions, currently
relevant, submitted by the Roanoke office. The in-
terns also worked upon several post-conviction cases
in which there were genuine questions as to whether
constitutional procedural rights had been violated.
The students worked on a plan to establish a legal
aid society in Lexington, which would involve co-
operation between Washington and Lee students and
members of the local bar. Their various studies in-
cluded marriage, annulment, separation, divorce, other
family matters, landlord-tenant, protection of judg-
ment debtors, and a survey of the various welfare
agencies operating in the Roanoke area. In addition,
each member of the staff, while working in Lexing-
ton, had an opportunity to work on one of the post-
conviction problems and to interview the prisoner
involved.

So far as the writer has been able to ascertain, it
was the consensus of the students concerned that the
program was a definite success.

 

ABOUT
THE
AUTHOR

CHARLES VAILL LAUGHLIN holds
the J. S. D. degree from the Uni-
versity of Chicago and has been
a member of the Washington
and Lee law faculty since 1940.
The editors are grateful to him
for this guest article.

 

 

CARROLL KLINGLEHOFER (left) and MIKE MICHAELES dis-
cuss a point in a legal research project.

Legal Research Aids
More Attorneys

By Mike MICHAELES

Since its inception in the spring of 1965, the Legal
Research Association has:enjoyed continued success.
This spring approximately 50 second and_ third
year students were elected on the basis of their aca-
demic prowess to write for the Association. The struc-
tural function of the Association consists of dividing
these writers into four groups, each of which is sup-
ervised by a Writing Director. The four Writing Di-
rectors for the spring are Jack Ford, Doug Knox, Jeff
Reider, and Harry Roberts. They in turn are under
the direction of Chairman Mike Michaeles, who suc-
ceeded Carroll Klinglehofer. Professor J. W. H.
Stewart is the faculty advisor, and Senior Bruce Mills
is the Secretary-Treasurer.

The Association's function is to receive legal prob-
lems which are submitted by practicing attorneys
throughout the southeastern part of the United States.
When an attorney is confronted with a situation which
he wants researched, he sends a statement of the facts
to the Association. The initial task of the writers who
are assigned to the problem is to determine the issues
involved in the legal problem sent in. Then the writers

10

thoroughly research the issues and prepare a memo-
randum which must be approved by the group Writing
Director as well as by the Chairman. Once the memo-
randum satisfies the heirarchy of student supervisors,
a criticism class is conducted by the Writing Director.
By this time, all the writers in that group who have
not actually helped in the research of that particular
problem have checked the memorandum for cita-
tional and substantive errors. During the criticism class
the memorandum is subjected to a severe test of
comprehension and clarity.

Thus, within a strictly complied-with period of
five weeks, a competent and comprehensive memo-
randum is prepared from an embryonic factual situa-
tion for which the attorney is charged a nominal fee
of $2 a page.

This year the Legal Research Association has en-
joyed its most prolific season. From a mailing list of
1,500 attorneys, memoranda on a panorama of topics
have been prepared. These include such legals as
probate, domestic relations, secured transactions, in-
surance, torts, contracts, and constitutional interpreta-
tion.

Two primary purposes are served by the Associa-
tion. The first is that attorneys have a reliable source
which will research matters that they themselves do
not have the time to do. However, the second and
most important purpose is the benefit that the writers
themselves derive from participating in the program.
In an academic atmosphere where law students are
exposed only to theoretical problems, the Association
gives them an opportunity to deal with real cases.
Thus, the writer assumes a responsible role which de-
velops self-confidence in his own work.

If practicing attorneys continue to support the
Association in the manner in which they have this
year, its future will be secure to offer this invaluable
experience to more law students, thereby producing
a better calibre of Washington and Lee Law School
graduate.

 

i tite

—

 

a a ei taal eal a el

ps Bie

ee

 

19 Bony Sag Sa)
id Se
~~ &..

WILLIAM McC. SCHILDT DEAN K. VEGOSEN

SECOND STRAIGHT YEAR

ANDREW E. COLCLOUGH

 

THOMAS SPENCER

Moot Court Team Reaches Finals

By Craic A. NIELSEN and COLIN M. GERSHON

OR THE SECOND consecutive year, Washington and

Lee’s Moot Court Team placed first in the Sixth
Region of the National Moot Court Competition. This
region, one of 20 across the country, includes 10 law
schools from Virginia, West Virginia, North Caro-
lina and South Carolina.

The National Moot Court Competition is spon-
sored annually by the Young Lawyers Committee of
the New York City Bar Association. Each team sub-
mits a brief on either the petitioner’s or respondent's
case, whichever it chooses. Then in the competition
each team draws at random which side of the case it
will argue.

This year’s team, selected last spring in the Burks
Competition, was composed of Andrew E. Colclough,
captain of the team and a senior from Arlington, Va.,
Dean K. Vegosen, an intermediate from Deal Park,
N.J., Thomas Spencer, an intermediate from Lex-
ington, Va., and William McC. Schildt, a senior from
Hagerstown, Md.

Much of the fall was spent by the team in pre-
paring a brief for the competition. They represented
stockholders and bondholders of a corporation who
sought pecuniary damages from a firm of public ac-
countants who had certified certain false financial
statements issued by the corporation. The _ issues,
considered to the most intricate in many years, em-
braced not only the recently amended Rule 23 of the

Federal Rules of Civil Procedure but also novel ap-
plication of sections 10(b) and 18(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.

The regional competition, held in Richmond
this year, saw Washington and Lee’s Moot Court
Team defeat teams from North Carolina College
and Duke University in preliminary rounds. In
the final round the team met for the second year in
a row and defeated the University of Virginia. It was
presided over by the Hon. Robert R. Mehrige, Jr.,
federal district judge for the Eastern District of Vir-
ginia, the Hon. John D. Butzner, Jr., a member of the
Court of Appeals for the Fouth Circuit, and the Hon.
Harold Fleming Snead of the Supreme Court of Ap-
peals of Virginia.

The regional competition was judged on the basis
of the quality of the brief, which counted one-third,
and the oral argument, which counted two-thirds. On
the brief the University of Virginia received a go to
Washington and Lee’s 88. It was in oral argument,
however, that Washington and Lee truly distinguished
itself, and was thereby chosen the champion of Region
Six. Thomas Spencer was designated as presenting the
best oral argument of the competition.

This regional triumph entitled the team to enter
the finals in New York City in December. Unfortun-
ately they were defeated in the early rounds by the
University of Nebraska. Their work, however, is one
of which Washington and Lee is truly proud.

11

Student Bar Association:

 

Busier Than Ever

By Grorce RAGLAND

VANS DINING HALL was the scene of the first Student
f Bar Association function of the new school year
when the Association held an Orientation Dinner in
honor of the 72 entering freshman law students Sep-
tember 22. The SBA officers were accompanied at the
event by the President of the undergraduate Student
Body, Richard Nash, who explained the functions of
the four standing committees at Washington and Lee.
President Huntley related the historical highlights in
the development of the present Law School, and
intermediate Pete Hendricks, an Executive Commit-
tee member, revealed the operation of the Honor
System. Representatives from the Legal Research As-
sociation, the Law Review, and the Moot Court com-
petition also gave enlightening talks on their re-
spective organizations. The event was instituted for
the first time this year for the purpose of facilitating
newcomers in their adaptation to W&L.

During the summer the old SBA room was con-
verted into the headquarters of the Law Review
staff, with the result that several of the refreshment
concessions which previously operated in that room
were abolished, and the others were moved into the
Student Lounge, where copies of the Wall Street Jour-
nal and the New York Times are available for student
enjoyment. Each of the 177 SBA members is furnished
also a free copy of the Law Review.

Three of the typewriters in the basement of the
Law School were renovated recently through an
appropriation of SBA funds, and they are now in
excellent working condition. With the profits from
its annual benefit card party, the Law Wives Associa-
tion purchased two brand new typewriters which gen-
erously will be donated to the Law School and should

12

 

SBA PRresipeNt ALFRED J. T. BYRNE

be available for the use of all law students by next
year,

Stemming largely from an idea promulgated by
Ron Gates and his law class of 1969, the walls of both
sides of the main hall on Tucker Hall’s third floor
now bear two permanent glass enclosures. Each con-
tains a large calendar which sets forth each month
those important upcoming events which are likely to
be of interest to law students.

In the fall the Student Bar Association, pursuant
to a 1964 recommendation by the American Bar As-
sociation, unanimously approved a motion to change
its present degree from an LL.B. (Bachelor of Laws)
to a J.D. (Juris Doctor). This progressive move was
made in light of the apparent trend toward adoption
of the J.D. degree, which is now awarded in approxi-
mately 50 per cent of the accredited law schools. The
SBA's proposal was submitted to the faculty which,
at last report, was “actively considering” it.

The annual Smoker in honor of the first-year class
was held at the Sigma Nu fraternity house Wednesday
night, October 11. The Thursday morning attendance
sheets in class indicated that the party was again a
tremendous success.

The various programs and committees fostered by
the Association continue to evoke active participation
from the members.

CURRICULUM COMMITTEE

In the spring of 1967, this interim committee sub-
mitted to the Law School student body a detailed
questionnaire on which 163 students evaluated the
present curriculum and presented their views on
prospective changes in it. Although it is still too soon
to realize any tangible results from the conclusions

 

 

PROFESSOR ROBERT H. GRaAy pre-
sides during a Mock Trial re-
hearsal in the new Moot Court-
room in Tucker Hall.

tabulated by the Committee, it is apparent that some
existing courses need renovation, and that new elective
courses in trial practice and securities and exchange
law are highly desirable.

SPEAKER PROGRAM

Due to the efforts of Chairmen Al Byrne and
Hunter Manson, the SBA was entertained on Novem-
ber 14 by a speech from Judge John D. Butzner, Jr.,
of the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. The speech
was followed by a tea at the Alumni House given by
the Law Wives. Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr., of the
Federal District Court in Richmond, honored Wash-
ington and Lee and members of the public by speaking
to them in the Alumni House March 26. This event,
too, culminated with informal discussion over re-
lreshments supplied by the Law Wives. On April 15
the Student Bar Association Speaker Program ended
its official program for the school year when it pre-
sented Mr, Armistead Boothe, a partner in the firm
Boothe, Dudley, Koontz, Blankingship and Stump.

MOCK TRIAL

A fictional homicide occurred in Rockbridge
County this past year, and the accused was brought
to trial November 16 before The Honorable Judge
Paul A. Holstein of the Eighteenth Judicial Circuit
of Virginia. Co-chairmen Dunbar and Sisler of the
Mock Trial Committee supervised the proceeding
before a jury of local citizens. Jack Ford and Tom
Coates adequately represented the defendant who was
Prosecuted ably by co-counsel John Peck and Bill
Bobbitt. The second semester Mock Trial involves a
criminal prosecution for rape and is docketed for hear-
ing April 29 in the Circuit Court of Rockbridge
County,

 

 

SOCIAL COMMITTEE

The dinner portion of the heretofore annual fall
Dinner Dance was deleted from the activity this year,
and Chairman Pete Hendricks guided the November
18 affair at the Robert E. Lee Hotel to success by
preceding the dance with a lengthy, well-attended
cocktail party. Varying from the customary routine of
having a combo party each semester, Chairman Hend-
ricks has planned for the Spring an SBA cookout with
beer and hot dogs.

COLD EXAM COMMITTEE

Chairman George Parthemos and cohorts are pres-
ently examining the possibility of consolidating the
three fraternity examination files into a central one
accessible to all law students. The project would be
carried out under the auspices of the SBA.

COORDINATING COMMITTEE

This new interim committee was formed this fall
to serve as a liaison between faculty and students.
Its members meet periodically with the Dean to
discuss problems and matters of interest concerning the
Law School. The four officers of the SBA, along with
chairman Mike Lowry of the Grievance Committee;
intermediate Ed Schiff, and freshman Bart Taylor
comprise the membership of the Coordinating Com-
mittee.

TAX CLUB

In March a new club was started in the Law
School for the purpose of familiarizing its members
with problems in the area of federal taxation. Under
the direction of Professor Stewart, the Tax Club al-
ready boasts a membership of about 20 students and
it hopes to become very active in the near future.

‘5

 

PHI DELTA PHI

HIS YEAR'S OFFICERS Of the Tucker Inn Chapter of

Phi Delta Phi are George Ragland, Magister; Pete
Hendricks, Exchequer; John Kelly, Clerk; and Kim
Ladewig, Historian. Chuck Neustein was the Chapter’s
representative at the National Convention in Miami
Beach last summer. Among other activities of the year,
several members took a bus trip to the race track at
Charles Town, W. Va., on March 9g.

The outcome of rush this year can be termed
highly successful. Twenty-six new members were
brought in. They are: John Baldwin, Dick Bradford,
Pete Carlson, Jim Cluverius, Mike Colo, Bob Cosel,
Tom Cox, Ed Crosland, Harley Duane, Ted Feinour,
Lewis Flynn, Tony Gleason, Guy Glenn, Bill Gudal,
Leighton Houck, Dave Krogmann, Don McFall, Bruce
MacFayden, Jerry Miller, Mosby Perrow, Norm Singer,
Paul Stanton, Whit Thornton, Butch West, Jim Winn,
and John Zink.

P.D.P. member, Robert E. R. Huntley, was ap-
pointed President of Washington and Lee University
and his former position of Dean of the Law School
is being temporarily filled by Dean Charles P. Light,
also a P.D.P. member.

P.D.P. is able to boast several distinguished mem-
bers this year. They include: Al Byrne, S.B.A. Presi-
dent; Mike Michaeles, President of Legal Research;
Ron Ingoe, Editor of the Law Review; and Gil Faulk,
Vice-President of the Student body.

PHI ALPHA DELTA

HE WALTER R. STAPLES CHAPTER Of Phi Alpha Delta
Fan established in 1912. The present officers are
Drew Colclough, Justice; Ron Marks, Vice Justice;
Dick ‘Tanner, Treasurer; and Roy Harrell, Marshall.

This year’s rush was felt to be successful when
considering the overall number of freshmen joining
fraternities. P.A.D. put on a good rush party which
brought in 15 new members. They are: Collin
Gershon, Tim Henry, Mike Herman, Jack Kirby, Dick
Lasko, Jack Lintner, Steve McElroy, Frank Morrison,
Craig Nielson, Sam Obenschain, Greg Otten, Jeff
Twardy, Fox Urquhart, Bob Vinyard, and Phil Wal-
lace,

Plans for this year include a new program of

14

Fraternities
Enjoy
Good Rush

 

luncheons with outside speakers. The fraternity hopes
to send several members to the national convention in
Washington, D.C., next August. Also, the usual spring
river party will be held.

Mr. Andrew W. McThenia, Class of 1963, joined
the law faculty at Washington and Lee this year. Mr.
McThenia among other things was editor of the Law
Review when a student at Washington and Lee. Also
another P.A.D. member, Mr. William Shildt, was
added to the faculty. Both members have shown them-
selves to be dedicated to their new positions and have
taken an active interest in P.A.D. affairs.

P.A.D. members continue to be active in various
Law School functions. Those presently on the Law
Review are: Bill Boardman, Larry Hepler, J. D.
Humphries, Dave Redman, Jeff Rieder, and Ed Schiff.
Drew Colclough participated in the Moot Court
competition,

DELTA THETA PHI

HE BURKS SENATE CHAPTER Of Delta Theta Phi is
eal of 48 members this year. Many activities
have been scheduled for this spring. Luncheons will
be held every three weeks with speakers attending.
Also, cook-out parties are planned for the coming
months. The Delta Thets will sponsor their annual
trip to the United States Supreme Court. Also, the
Founder’s Day Banquet was held in April.

This year officers are: Bill Winters, Dean; Dave
Ross, Vice-Dean; Stu Denton, Keeper of the Door;
Bill ‘Tisinger, Exchequer; Carr Kinder, Tribune; John
Paul, Master of the Ritual; and Danny Hall, Cor-
responding Secretary.

The rush party at which there was plenty of food
and beer was attended by several alumni from the
Washington, D. C., area. Fifteen new members were
added to the chapter. They are: Dave Baird, Wayne
Bell, Bob Bigham, Walter Borda, Bill Gershon, Ben
Cummings, Dick DeFronzo, Steve Dix, Vaughan
Griffin, John Luzis, John Patterson, Garland Rigney,
Jack Roach, Aron Suna, and Bob Taylor.

Burks Senate has been fortunate in having as a
faculty member, Professor Charles V. Laughlin. Pro-
fessor Laughlin was instrumental in reactivitating
the chapter in 1958 and has since shown a great in-
terest in its affairs.

LAW WIVES DONATE TYPEWRITERS

 

Top (left to right) Law Wives Mrs. Davin ApAMs, Mrs. GILBERT
FAULK, and Mrs. JosepH Brown are pleased that the Law
Wives Association was able to give typewriters to the Law
School this year. Below (left to right) are three of the second-
semester officers, Mrs. V. CAsset ADAMSON, Mrs. FAULK, and
Mrs. CHARLES BERGER.

BOUT 50 NEW LAW WIVES were added to the As-
A sociation this year, bringing the total to go law
wives at Washington and Lee. The officers for this
fall were elected last spring; they included: Rendy
Adams (Mrs. Dave), President; Pat Faulk (Mrs. Gil),
Vice President; Susie Sisler (Mrs. Eric), Treasurer;
Mate Tisinger (Mrs. Bill), Secretary; and Darlene
Quinn (Mrs. John), Historian.

The Law Wives made preparations for their annual
Benefit Card Party in the spring. They also had
another very successful Fashion Show in which many
of the members participated as models.

In addition to their major projects, the Law Wives
have monthly meetings at which they often have guest
speakers discussing a wide variety of topics of general
interest. Aside from their domestic chores, many of
the members are teachers and several do volunteer
work in the community.

The Association began the second semester with
the election of new officers who are: Pat Faulk, Presi-
dent; Pearl Adamson, Vice President; Ginny Mc-
Laughlin, Treasurer; Marty Baird, Secretary; and
Carole Berger, Historian.

This semester’s activities got promptly under way
with a cocktail party for the faculty in February. The
Benefit Card Party was held on March 8, and was a
tremendous success with over 65 tables participating
in the event. The proceeds of the party go toward
the purchase of new typewriters for the Law School.

Other plans for the spring included a picnic for
all the members, their husbands, and children at
Goshen. Once again, the Law Wives Association has
had a successful and most productive year, and con-
tinued success is inevitable.

—Davip Bairp

 

HE PLACEMENT EFFORT at the Law School is

functioning smoothly under the auspices of Pro-
fessor Andrew W. McThenia, who was named Di-
rector of Placement last September. He is ably assisted
by the Placement Committee of the Student Bar As-
sociation, and their combined efforts are augmented
by the placement issue of The Lawyer.

Mr. McThenia has given the placement activities
a new impetus and organization. He sees himself as
a conduit through which the inquiries of students and
employers flow and are channeled and coordinated so
that interviews will ensue and, hopefully, jobs will be
obtained. The effort is made to meet the needs of
every student and employer on an individual basis.
Mr. McThenia personally corresponds with as many

Director Named

A PUSH FOR PLACEMENT

 

15

prospective employers as possible to stimulate interest
in our students and to encourage interviews on cam-
pus. The placement goal is envisioned as creating
even closer ties with alumni and all interested em-
ployers so as to better serve their needs and those
of the students.

The Placement Committee of the Student Bar
Association assists Mr. McThenia in every way pos-
sible. The Committe serves as a valuable instrument
with which to measure student interest and response
to the placement effort. It is their job to keep an up-
to-date bulletin board where placement notices are
prominently displayed. The Committee also assists

in extending the Law School’s hospitality to employ-
ers conducting interviews.

The placement issue of The Lawyer was begun in
the fall of 1966, and the consensus is that it has been
a tremendous success. The placement issue is to pro-
vide advance information to employers about students
seeking positions. It is mailed to all Law School
alumni, selected law firms, and to all employers who
request it. The scope of the 1967 placement issue
was enlarged and the present editors have plans afoot
to further improve the next edition. It is their en-
deavor to continually improve the service rendered
and they encourage comments from the recipients.

—Mossy PERROW

 

 

The
Lawyer Sta

 

 

Photography
by
MICKEY PHILIPPS

HE EDITORS OF THE Washington and Lee

Lawyer welcome this new affiliation
with the Washington and Lee Alumni
Magazine and express their sincere grati-
tude to the editors of the Alumni Maga-
zine and to Mr. Mickey Philipps for their
invaluable technical assistance.

At left Lawyer editors Davin ADAMS and JosEPH
Brown check type in the print shop. Below (left
to right) are members of the staff: KEARONS WHALEN,
Lestie SMITH, STEPHEN CASE, JoserpH Brown, DAvip
ADAMS, MICHAEL MICHAELES, JOSEPH CHURCHILL, and
JEFFREY REIDER.

 

 

 

Class
Notes

 

 

 

1913

ADRIAN WILLIAMSON continues to practice
law in Monticello, Ark., with the firm of
Williamson, Williamson & Ball.

1914

WARREN C. BROWN lives in El Paso, Tex.,
where he is most active in church work.
Retired since 1959, he has served as pres-
ident of the local Arthritis Chapter in El
Paso and for years was on its national
board of directors. A hobby which he
continues is refinishing antique furniture.

1915

In February Dr. L. NeELson BELL received
his seventh award and medal from the
Freedom Foundation of Valley Forge for
one of his editorials.

W. E. CRANK continues his practice of law
in Louisa, Va. He is the last surviving
member of the original ten members of
the Louisa Bar Association which he
became a member of in 1915.

1918

Separated from the U.S. Army in 1947
with the rank of Major, Aup E. Lusk has
spent the last twenty years in both poli-
tics and ranching. He lives in Carlsbad,
N. M., and has retired from all civilian
pursuits but occupies his time with read-
ing and with his hobby of U.S. coin col-
lecting.

1920

Though semi-retired, James Lewis Low-
MAN still continues in the drug business.
He owns and operates Lowman’s Drug
Store of Charleston, W. Va.

SPRING 1968

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE CHAIR

= THE WASHINGTON AND LEE CHAIR makes a perfect gift
for Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings.
It also makes a beautiful addition to any room in
your home. It is made of birch and rock maple, hand-
rubbed in black and gold trim, with arms finished in
cherry. The crest is in five colors. All profit from sales
of the chair goes to the scholastic fund in memory of
John Graham, ‘14. Mail your order to Washington
and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. The

price is $35.00 f.0.b. Gardner, Mass.

Cart G. Gitcurist has retired as assistant
vice-president of United Fuel Gas Co. of
Charleston, W. Va. He is now Director of
Public Relations, Morris Harvey College,
in Charleston.

E. G. BalLey is an appraiser of real estate
for the First Mortgage Corp. of Richmond
and also for the State Planters Bank of
Commerce and Trust.

1922

Harry Lyons, a native of Lexington, has
made an outstanding career in dental sur-
gery. He has been a member of the Medi-
cal College of Virginia faculty since 1923
and has served through all the ranks from
instructor to professor and head of a de-
partment. Among his many professional
activities, Dr. Lyons holds membership
in the American Dental Association, In-
ternational Association for Dental Re-
search, and the American Academy of
Periodontology. He was president of the
American College of Dentists 1964-65 and
chairman of many various committees
of the American Dental Association. Dr.
Lyons is presently a member of the Na-
tional Advisory Dental Research Council,
the National Advisory Council on Educa-
tion for Health Professions and a con-
sultant to the U.S. Food and Drug Ad-
ministration. Dr. Lyons holds honorary
degrees from Temple University, Mani-
toba University, and New York Univer-

sity.
1923

Following a pastorate in Texas, RAYMOND
G. WICKERSHAM came to Goose Creek,
South Carolina, where he has organized a
new church and is minister to Presbyter-
ian students in four colleges in the area.

Jupce I. H. Srreeper, III, was just recent-
ly retained as an Associate Judge of grd
Judicial Circuit of Illinois for a period of
six years.

JoserH R. Lone is practicing law as a
partner of Fordyce, Mayne, Hartman, Re-
nard and Stribling in St. Louis, Mo.

1924

After holding the post for two years,
FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN of Swarthmore, Pa.,
has announced his resignation as State Fi-
nance Chairman for the Republican State
organization. Mr. Plowman moves up to
be Chairman of the Executive Committee
of the Finance Committee.

1925

M. R. “Joe” Bruin, JR., writes that he is
now spending most of his time on his
Virginia cattle farm but manages to spend
winters in Florida. Recently he had visits
from Dewey REYNOLDS, ’22, and JAMES
SMITH, ’25.

After 39 years with Tetley Tea Company,
RICHARD Fritz, JR., is retired and lives in
New City, N.Y.

ConrAD T. ALTFATHER has retired from
his position with Westinghouse Electric
Corporation and now makes his home in
Cape Coral, Fla. He divides his time be-
tween several hobbies and traveling.

1926

PAUL M. ScHUCHART, Pennsylvania Public
Utility Commission Engineer, has been
assigned as staff assistant to provide tech-
nical assistance to the three cooperating
state commissioners in the FCC telephone

rate case.
1927

In 1967 R. Wicspur SiIMMoNs began a four-
year term as a member of the Board of
Directors of the Stewardship Council of
the United Church of Christ.

RosBert TAYLOR is editorial page editor
and chief editorial writer and _ political
columnist for the Pittsburgh Press. He
and his wife have two children and four

grandchildren.
1928
On his 6oth birthday Cot. JuLtus GoLp-
29

 

STEIN was honored by his many friends
when they contributed to the Children’s
Hospital of the District of Columbia. This
gift was used to furnish two rooms in the
new pediatric ward of the hospital, and
bronze plaques in honor of Colonel Gold-
stein will be appropriately placed in the

hospital.
1929

Lewis F. Powe, JR., Richmond attorney
and member of the Washington and Lee
University Board of Trustees, was elected
president of the Virginia State Board of
Education in February. He succeeded an-
other Washington and Lee man, state
senator, Mossy G. Perrow, Jr., ‘go. In
earlier days, Perrow had served as Pow-
ell’s campaign manager in the latter's
election to the student body presidency
of Washington and Lee. Powell, a former
president of the American Bar Association,
has had several connections with educa-
tion, including the chairmanship of the
Richmond School Board from 1952 to
1961 and service on the boards of trustees
of Washington and Lee, Hollins College,
and Union Theological Seminary.

W. J. Davis BELL, JR., is the Washington,
D.C., representative for Jones & Laughlin
Steel Corp.

1930

Effective July 1, 1968, Judge Morris C.
MonTGOMERY will begin his second tour
of service as Chief Justice, Kentucky Court
of Appeals.

LEONARD WILLIAM JAcoss is president of
the Washington Division of W&J Sloane,
the nation’s oldest name in the home fur-
nishings and interior decorating fields.
Sloane now plans to open the largest re-
tail store on Connecticut Ave. in D.C., as
well as operating four other stores in the
area which have a $10-million sales vol-
ume a year. Mr. Jacobs was previously
associated with the Peerless Furniture
Store owned by his father and in 1949 be-
came owner of the Mayer & Co. furniture
store chain which merged with Sloane in

1g62.
1931

Luria Brothers and Company, Inc., a
subsidiary of the Ogden Corporation, has
announced that Herpert B. Luria, III,
formerly their district manager of Birm-
ingham, Ala., will continue with Luria as
a consultant in the Birmingham area. Mr.
Luria joined the company in 1931 and

30

Heperr B. Luria, III, ‘31

became southern district manager in 1948.
He has been president of the Southeast
Chapter of the Institute of Scrap Iron
and Steel. He and his wife and two chil-
dren reside in Birmingham, Ala.

In June, 1968, EUGENE JOHNSON wll have
completed thirty-five years of service with
E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company.

Joun M. Stemmons, one of Dallas’ best
known business and civic leaders, has been
named winner of the ggth annual Linz
Award. The selection of Stemmons was
announced by the Linz Award committee
at a luncheon held recently at the Statler-
Hilton Hotel in Dallas. The Dallas leader
was named specifically for his achievement
in helping to secure the manpower and
financial support to conduct an education-
al campaign for the largest capital im-
provements program in the history of
Dallas. The Linz Award is given each year
for the most significant contribution to
the advancement of community affairs. Mr.
Stemmons is president of the Industrial
Properties Corp. He also was cited for
his work with the Urban League in Dallas
and for his work with the United Fund.
A member of the Board of Trustees of
Washington and Lee University, Mr.
Stemmons is president of the Dallas Bet-
ter Business Bureau, president and direc-
tor of the Senior Citizens Foundation of
Dallas, and chairman of the Board of
Directors of the Dallas County Flood
Control. Aside from his association with
Industrial Properties Corp., Stemmons
serves on the boards of Republic National
Bank of Dallas, Dallas Power and Light
Company, Dallas Market Center, Dr. Pep-
per Company, and Southwestern Life
Insurance Company. He is a director of
the Southwestern Medical Foundation, the
Texas Research Foundation, and the
Dallas Citizen’s Council.

1932

SHERWOOD W. WISE, attorney in Jackson,
Miss. and member of the ABA Advisory
Committee on Federal Legislation, attend-
ed a four-day discussion conference in
Chicago, March 14-17, to explore the
depths of the role of lawyers in the
changing social order. The conference
was sponsored by the American Bar As-
sociation. Other W&L participants in-
cluded Ross MALONE, JR., "32, General
Counsel of General Motors, and R.
GorDON Goocn, '56, attorney in Houston.

Dr. WituiAM D. Hoyt, curator of the
Sandy Bay Historical Museum, Inc., Rock-

port, Mass, has been elected president
of the Essex County Historical Associa-
tion and also president of the Rockport
Friends of the Library. Dr. Hoyt, con-
sultant to several historical associations
in eastern Massachusetts, is a former pro-
fessor of history and political science at
Loyola College. He also taught history at
Catholic University of America and at one
time was assistant director of the Mary-
land Historical Society.

After 35 years with the Washington, D.C.,
Recreation Department, Everetr N. Cross
retired in January of this year. He is the
immediate past-president of the Rock
Creek Lions Club in Washington.

1933

DeForest E. CLaArk retired in October,
1967, as budget officer for the Civil Engi-
neering Squadron at MacDill Field near
Tampa. Clark has had thirty-two years
of federal service and twenty-seven of them
have been at MacDill. He has served in
many different positions in administrative,
statistical and supervisory capacities be-
fore becoming budget officer. He also
served on the Civil Service Commission
Board, the Efficiency Rating Board and
the Grievance Committee and Budget Re-
view Panels.

E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., Senior Vice
President of Campbell Soup Company,
Camden, N. J., has been elected President
of the National Canners Association. Mr.
Nuckols, former president of Washington
and Lee Alumni Association, is the 54th
president of the National Canners Associa-
tion during its 61-year history. Among his
many attainments, Mr. Nuckols is a di-
rector of the First Camden National Bank
and Trust Company of Camden, N. J.; he
was president of the United Fund of
Camden County for the 1963 and 1964
campaigns and was chairman of its Board
of Trustees during the 1965 campaign. He
has also served as chairman of the Board
of Supervisors of the Upper Makefield
Township, Bucks County, Pa.

1934

WituiaMm O. Lerrett is professor of
Electrical Engineering at the University
of Tennessee.

This June, 1968, will mark the goth
anniversary that Nem C. Pascoe has been
with Selected Risks Insurance Co. He is
assistant vice-president and personnel di-
rector.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

for medical training in every aspect.

James R. Rutu has recently been named
assistant to the president for manufactur-
ing in the Great Western Foods Company.

One of the 160 business executives and
government officials to participate in the
53rd_ session of the Advanced Manage-
ment Program conducted by the Harvard
University Graduate School of Business
Administration is JoHN M. McCarpe.y of
Hagerstown, Md. Mr. McCardell was spon-
sored by the Potomac Edison Compnay for
a 13-week course beginning February 13,
1968. The advance management program
is the nation’s oldest and largest resident
management development program and it
began at the Harvard Business School in
1943. It is designed to prepare executives
in, Or approaching, top management posi-
tions to exercise full leadership responsi-
bility in an age of unprecedented change
and challenge.

1938

Jerry A. Burke, Jr., of Richmond, Va.,
tion of American Railroads. He has been
a general attorney in the law department
since 1956.

1937

FILLMORE G. WILSON is the Executive Vice
President of R. S. Noonan, Incorporated
of South Carolina, large contractors and
engineers whose headquarters are in York,
Penn., and with branch offices in Balti-
more, Md. and Greenville, S.C. The list
of Noonan clients includes many of the
top names in American industry. Prior
to his association with R. S. Noonan
Incorporated Wilson was with J. E. Sirrine
Company of Greenville, S$. C., for fourteen
years where he rose from the design engi-
neer to vice president and director.

|. M. Scorr will be the director of a new
521 million medical complex in Phila-
delphia. Philadelphia General Hospital,
Children’s Hospital, and the University of
Pennsylvania have signed an agreement
to create this complex. This development
is the result of an urgent need for im-
proved facilities for medical research and

1935

RoBerT F, Cooper, Jr., has retired as a
special agent with the F.B.I. after twenty-
eight years of service. He is now trust
officer with the First National Bank of
Jackson, Miss.

1936

Dk. KENNETH G. MACDONALD was appoint-
ed chairman of the Department of Surgery
of the Charleston, (W. Va.) Memorial Hos-
pital. He is also treasurer of the West
Virginia State Medical Association. Ken
has time also to be an active assistant
scoutmaster,

Having joined the organization in 1950,
Harry J. BreirHaupt, Jr., has just been
named general solicitor for the Associa-

SPRING 1968

formerly vice-president of Texaco Ex-
periment, Inc., has joined Edwin Cox
Associates as a general partner. His in-
ventions have included rockets, guns, and
a quick-opening parachute. He also de-
veloped the nation’s first ramjet engine.

Dr. A. COMPTON BRODERS, JR., continues
to practice gastro enterology at Scott and
White clinic in Temple, Texas. The clinic
now has over 150 physicians. The Broders
are active in community affairs and Comp-
ton is senior warden of his church. He
and his wife have four sons.

CALVERT THOMAS is a member of the Gen-
eral Motors Corporation Legal Staff. His
service in public life ended with his re-
tirement as President of Franklin Village,
Mich., where he was active for two terms.
His extra-curricular efforts are now in
the field of education, as a member of
the Board of Directors of Kingswood
School Cranbrook, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

Dr. CHARLES M. WILLIAMS, George Gund
Professor of Commercial Banking at Har-
vard Graduate School of Business Ad-
ministration, has been re-elected to a
four-year term as a director of National
Life Insurance Company of Vermont.

1939

In March, 1967, JOHN D. Goopin was hon-
ored as one of two U.S. representatives
to the International Conference on Vet-
erans Legislation held in London. At the
conference he was named vice-chairman.
In Oct., 1967, John was again named a
delegate to a World Veteran Federation
in Holland. He and six others from the
conference took a trip to Leningrad and
Moscow and returned home by way of
Athens.

1940

GEorRGE C. NIELSEN is completing his 29th
year with the duPont Company. He is
now serving as sales manager for “Teflon”
in northeastern United States. George
writes that he and his wife, Evelyn, have
three grandchildren who consume much
of their time and provide them with a
great deal of enjoyment.

After 27 years as pilot with PANAGRA,
CHARLEs C. Cure is now part of Braniff
International. He resides in Hialeah, Fla.

1941

JAMEs M. McConnetv has been elected a
vice president of The Carborundum Com-
pany. Mr. McConnell is president of The
Pangborn Corporation of Hagerstown,
Md., a Carborundum subsidiary. He joined
Pangborn in 1957 as manager of its Abra-
sive Division. He was promoted to Ex-
ecutive Vice President in 1963 and was
appointed Company President in 1965.
During both World War II and the
Korean War McConnell was in the United
States Air Force as a Group Comander
of B-2g heavy bombers. He currently

serves on the Board of Directors of the
First National Bank of Maryland and is
also a board member of the Foundry
Equipment Manufacturers Association.
The McConnells have three children and
they reside in Hagerstown, Md.

RICHARD M. HERNDON has returned to the
Department of State in Washington, D. C.,
after two years at the U. S. Embassy in
Seoul, Korea. The family lives in Bethesda,
Md.

After 26 years of service, Capt. CLIFFORD
B. Curtis, JRr., has retired from the Navy
and is now assistant director, Washington
office, of Litton Industries.

JAMes W. GArbINeR has survived two heart
attacks and is now semi-retired from
theatrical producing. He spends much of
his time in Europe.

1942

W. B. DuNson is a partner in the firm of
Turner and Dunson, recently appointed
exclusive distributors for Fusion Rubber
Corp. for the textile industry in South
Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Tenn.

In July, 1967, C. Tom Garten was elected
president of Broadcasting Services, Inc.
The firm owns WTAP AM-FM and TV
stations in Parkersburg, W. Va.

Cor. WILLIAM C. Amick and his family
are living in Addis Ababa where Com-
mander Amick is chief, Navy Section,
MAAG to Ethiopia.

1943

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Ropert F. Mac-
CACHRAN, a son, Robert Andrew Hamilton,
on February 13, 1968. Bob joins an older
brother and sister. The family lives in
Chatham, N. J.

In Lawrenceburg Tenn., WILLIAM K.
SEVIER is president of B&S Concrete Sup-
ply, Inc. He is also a director of Personal
Loans, Inc.

Having retired from the Army last June,
ALex MAIsH is now working as computer
systems analyst for the Mitre Corporation
in Washingon, D.C.

Since June, 1948, FLoyp K. MCKENNA has
been Director of Recreation and Parks
for the city of Lynchburg, Va.

FRANCIS R. Russet of New York City has
been named administrator of the Lynch-
burg Fine Arts Center. Mr. Russell has
been in corporate public relations in New
York for several years and prior to that
was news director in Lynchburg for
WLVA television and radio.

1944

Georce T. Woop was recently promoted
to the position of Marketing Manager of
Lighting, Royal-DeSoto Division of De-
Soto, Inc., in Chattanooga, Tenn.

Dr. WILLIAM B. Gutueie of the English

41

Ewinc S. HUMPHREYS, JR., '44

Department of Richmond College has
been promoted to full profesor. He joined
the Richmond College faculty in 1955
having received his graduate degrees at
the University of Virginia. At the Uni-
versity of Virginia he was a member of
the Raven Society. Dr. Guthrie and his
family will take a sabbatical leave this
next semester and will do extensive travel-
ing in Europe.

The Board of Directors of the D’Arcy
Advertising Company has announced the
election of Ewinc S. HUMPHREYS, JR., to
the position of Vice-President. Mr. Hum-
phreys had served for many years in
the Atlanta office of D'Arcy as Supervisor
for all field marketing activity on the
Royal Crown Cola Company account.
Humphreys is now headquartered in the
New York office, where he is Marketing
Supervisor on the Royal Crown Cola Com-
pany account and Account Supervisor for
Royal Crown International, Ltd. He and
his wife have two sons and the family
lives in Manhattan. During the ten years
that he has been with D’Arcy he has
served as Regional Account Executive on
several other accounts, including Bud-
weiser. Before entering the advertising
business. Mr. Humphreys for nine years
was a Special Agent of the F.B.I. and a
Supervisor in the Bureau’s headquarters
in Washington, D.C.

JAMEs W. HARMAN, Jr., has started his
twentieth year in the practice of law in
his home town of Tazewell, Va. He was
commonwealth’s attorney for Tazewell
County from 1952 to 1956 and completed
his third term as mayor of the town of
Tazewell in September, 1967. Jim and his
wife bought an old brick home which
was built in 1832 and have been busy
in the process of restoring it. The Har-
mans have two sons who are in high
school.

PAUL D. Barns, JRr., is practicing law as
a partner in the firm of Salley, Barns &
Pajon in Miami, Fla.

1945

J. Maurice MILLER, senior vice president
and counsel for Life of Virginia Insurance
Co., has been named a director of Lawyers
Title Insurance Corporation.

L. GORDON MILLER, JR., is vice-president
and director of The Richmond office of
Wheat & Co., members of the N. Y. Stock
Exchange. He recently received a certifi-
cate as chartered financial analyst.

32

 

1946

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. SIDNEY COULLING,
a son, Philip Price, on April g, 1968. Dr.
Coulling is professor of English at Wash-
ington and Lee. The young son joins two

sisters.
1947

The advertising firm of N. W. Ayer &
Son, Inc., in Philadelphia, Pa., has an-
nounced the election of CHARLEs H.
BRENNAN, JR., as vice-president. Before
joining the firm, Brennan had been a
reporter in Lynchburg, Va. a copywriter
at Armstrong Cork Company in Lan-
caster, Pa., at Gray & Rogers advertising
agency in Philadelphia, and an advertis-
ing manager of duPont’s Export Division.
He lives in Swarthmore, Pa.

1948

Dr. WILLIAM H. RATTINER, urologist and
member of the American Urologist As-
sociation, is clinic assistant professor at
Wayne State University Medical School.

LIEUTENANT Co“, JACK G. Murray at-
tended the goth National Arnold Air
Society Conclave just concluded in New
York. Colonel Murray serves as advisor
to a unit of the honorary society for out-
standing Air Force Reserve Officers Train-
ing Corps cadets. He is assigned as pro-
fessor of aerospace studies at the Uni-
versity of Virginia.

W. Sperry Lee has been elected to the
Board of Trustees of the University of the
South (Sewanee). Mr. Lee is an attorney
with the firm of Ulmer, Murchison, Kent,
Ashley and Ball. An undergraduate from
Sewanee, he received his law degree from
WEL in 1948.

H. Petrie MITCHELL, who has served five
years of mission service at the Presbyterian
Mission in Seoul, Korea, is scheduled to
return to the States with his family in
the late summer.

Last summer Dr. RoBert G. PATTERSON
completed a year’s sabbatical from South-
western at Memphis when he served as
visiting professor of philosophy and re-
ligious knowledge at The Chinese Uni-
versity of Hong Kong.

In May, 1967, EpGAr D. HOLLADAY re-
ceived an M.B.A. degree from the Uni-
versity of Kentucky. He now holds a
position with the Social Security Ad-
ministration in Chicago.

CHARLES H. BRENNAN, JR., '47

 

1949

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THomMas W.
‘Tucker, a daughter, Mary Scott Tucker,
on February 25, 1968. The family lives
in Wheeling, W. Va.

Haypen D. AustIN is Regional Counsel
for the Small Business Administration in
Salt Lake City, Utah.

SPENCER W. Morten, President of Bassett
Mirror Company, has been elected vice-
president of the First National Bank of
Bassett, Va. Spencer is also president of
the Dominion Ornamental Plastics Co.

Grorce E. DASHIELL has been made presi-
dent of U.S. Magnetic Tape Company,
a subsidiary of the Wabash Company, and
a manufacturer of quality computer tape.
Previously Dashiell was with Burroughs
Data Processing Products and a. sales
representative for IBM. Later, from 1960
to 1965, he was division vice-president and
marketing manager of RCA’s graphic
systems division and for the past two
years division vice-president of sales for
RCA Electronic Data Processing.

1950

MircHett I. Lewis is currently running
the campaign of Gordon McLendon for
Governor of Texas. In 1964 Mitchell ran
Mr. McLendon’s unsuccessful campaign
for the Senate, although McLendon re-
ceived 700,000 votes.

For five years DONALD MUNSON served as
executive vice-president of The Bible
for You, Inc. He is now doing graduate
study in history at the University of
Guelph, Ontario, Canada. He is an
ordained minister in the Presbyterian
Church.

JAMes T. HENDRICK, an attorney in Dur-
ham, N.C., was the Durham County cam-
paign manager for Democratic guberna-
torial candidate, Melville Broughton, Jr.

The Chemical Bank New York Trust Co.
has announced the appointment of
ROBERT VAN BUREN as senior vice-presi-
dent in its National Division. Mr. Van
Buren, with the bank since 1950, was
named assistant secretary in 1956, an as-
sistant vice president in 1959, and a vice
president in 1962. He holds a master’s
degree in banking and finance from New
York University in 1956.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Directors of the Heritage Securities, Inc.,
of Columbus, Ohio, have elected CHARLES
PLUMB as vice-president. For the past
several years Plumb has been investment
officer for the State Teachers Retirement
System of Ohio. He previously was a senior
analyst in the investment department of
the Nationwide Insurance Companies.
Plumb is a chartered financial analyst, a
member and past president of the Co-
lumbus Society of Financial Analysts.

Forbidden Caverns, one of America’s most
spectacularly beautiful caves, was develop-
ed and opened by R. B. Pere HaAlcey.
The attraction is located near Sevierville,
‘Tennessee.

The appointment of PxHitip LANIER as
assistant vice-president for law was an-
nounced by the Louisville & Nashville
Railroad recently. He has been general
solicitor for the company since 1960.

WittiAM H. Corsin has been elected
vice-president and general manager of
Penn Traffic Co.'s downtown store in
Johnstown, Pa. After three years in the
FBI, he entered Penn Traffic’s training
program and in 1958 was appointed as-
sistant general merchandise manager. Since
1965 he has been assistant to the presi-
dent. Mr. Corbin is 1968 chairman of the
Red Cross Fund Drive, serves as a mem-
ber of the board of the Johnstown
Chamber of Commerce, is a director in a
savings and loan association, and is a
member of the board of directors of the
Johnstown Chapter of the Red Cross.

1951

Eric Curry is manager of special studies
in the finance department for the C&O-
B&O Railroads.

WittIAM R. Rocers is presently em-
ployed at Virginia Crafts, Inc., manu-
facturers of tufted rugs, in Keysville, Va.
He and his wife have four children, and
the family lives in Charlotte Court House,
Va.

J. HuntTer LANg, Jr., has returned to the
practice of law in Memphis, Tenn., with
the firm of Waring, Walker, Cox & Lewis
after four years of service in city govern-
ment as Commissioner of Public Service,
an elective post.

Joun P. Bowen, Jr., manager of the

SPRING 1968

 

Hampton Bureau of the Newport News
Daily Press, has traveled to Russia, East
Germany and Hungary to obtain material
for articles.

The South Jersey Mortgage Co. has pro-
moted THOMAS CLARKE MArTIN from
assistant vice-president to vice-president.
Martin has been with the mortgage com-
pany for seven years and prior to his
promotion was personnel and office man-
ager. As vice-president he will have re-
sponsibilities over internal operations. He
is a member of the board of governors of
the New Jersey Bankers Association.

Witson H. Lear is the Columbia, S. C.,
branch manager for U. S. Plywood-
Champion Papers, Inc. He and his wife,
Janie, have two sons and a daughter.

WALLACE K. BisHop, vice-president of
Potomac Construction Co., has _ been
elected president of the West Virginia
Contractors Association for 1968. He is
also vice-president of Highway Materials
Co. and Shenandoah Oil Co. and is a
partner in the Asphalt Products Co. of
Martinsburg. He is affiliated with the
National Society of Professional Engineers
and the American Society, Civil Engineers.

For three years, JAMES W. RoBerts, JR.,
has been with Distribution Service, Inc.
The firm leases drug premises in shopping
centers On a nationwide scale.

THoMAs J. Conpon is in the general
practice of law in Ansonia, Conn. He is
also unemployment compensation commis-
sioner for the 5th District, State of Conn.

WiLuiAM 8S. Rosasco, III, was signally
honored by the Jaycees of Santa Rosa
County, Fla., when he received their
coveted awards, The Thomas A. Leonard
Humanitarian Award and the Good Will
Ambassador of the Year award. The
Humanitarian Award was given Bill for
his leadership in church, home, commun-
ity and profession, particularly his good
deeds and hard work in developing Santa
Rosa Co. He received the Ambassador
Award for his many services to the Jay-
cees in arranging programs for meetings
and for his invaluable assistance to the
Chamber's Industrial Comittee.

1952

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Oris W. Howe, Jr.,

EDWARD B. SICKLE, JR., '52

a daughter, Mary Fay, on August 4, 1967.
The family lives in Wabash, Ark.

BORN: COMMANDER and Mrs. Horace W.
Dierrick, JR. a son, David Andrew
Dietrick, in March, 1968. Horace is a
commander in the Naval Reserve and is
presently Commanding Officer of a Naval
Reserve Ship Activation at Fort McHenry,
Md.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Joet B. Cooper,
a daughter, Katherine, on Nov. g, 1967.
The young lady joins an older sister and
brother. The family lives in Norfolk, Va.

WiLutiAM H. Lyon is sales manager of
Carolina Forge Company, a manufacturer
of wrought iron furniture. He and his
wife, the former Ruth Blakeslee, have
three daughters.

Recently promoted, Dr. WILLIAM 5S.
HAGLER is now associate professor of
ophthalmology at Emory University’s
School of Medicine. He expects to spend
a tour of duty soon in Ceylon on the
ship Hope.

WILLIAM A. Swarts, JR., is Regional Sales
Manager for Reynolds Metals Company
of Richmond, Va. He is married to the
former Sarah Brown of Narrows, Va., and
the couple has four children.

The Huffman Manufacturing Co. of Day-
ton, Ohio, has named Epwarp B. SICKLE,
Jr., its financial manager. Sickle comes
to Huffman from Columbus, Ohio, where
he was employed by the John Hancock
Insurance Co. as a special consultant.
Previously he was with Radio Corpora-
tion of America at their Cambridge, Ohio,
plant in various managerial capacities. He
has served as district chairman for the
Boy Scouts and was also associated with
the Junior Chamber of Commerce in
Middleton, Ohio.

Dr. EcHots A. HANSBARGER, JR., is the
director of the pathology laboratory at
Lynchburg (Va.), General Hospital.

Grorce W. Secer has been made a partner
in the firm of Alex. Brown & Sons, the
oldest investment banking house in the
United States. Mr. Seger started with the
firm ten years ago and became manager
of the Easton (Md.) office in 1959.

Epwarp W. Tuomas of San Mateo, Cal.,
has been selected to serve on the Manage-
ment Advisory Board for his firm of Horn-

33

 

blower & Weeks-Hemphill, Noyes, na-
tionally known stockbrokers. Membership
on this board is for registered representa-
tives who have distinguished themselves
by outstanding service to clients. The
purpose of the board is to advise with
senior management on ways to better
serve the investing public.

1953

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM L. Cusac,
a son, Michael Loren, on Jan. 11, 1968,
in Hartsville, S.C.

Ropney F. Srock, JR., has been promoted
to the rank of Inspector and is assigned
as an investigator with the Juvenile Aid
Bureau of the Reno, Nev., Police Dept.

JoserH W. ScHER wrote and directed a
one-hour documentary film, “The Great
Charlie Chan,” which was shown at the
Museum of Modern Art in New York
City. He is a copy supervisor with Batten,
Barton, Durstine and Osborn, an ad-
vertising agency in New York.

WILLIAM H. CoLeMAN has been elected
president of Graphic Arts Association of
central Florida.

Ropert H. WARREN is currently in charge
of design and construction for Owen-
Illinois of a cane sugar factory in the
Bahamas. This is one of the first such
factories in the Bahamas. Bob recently
moved from Jacksonville, Fla., to Toledo.

After completing six years of residency
training at the Mayo Clinic where he
received a master of science degree in
opthalmology, HArry M. LAWRENCE, JR.,
has opened an office in Chattanooga for
the practice of opthalmology. For three
years before his residency, he was a
flight surgeon on active duty in Wash-
ington, D. C.

R. SuTER Hupson, a chemist in fiber re-
search systems, Armstrong Cork Co., has
been promoted to manager for wood
products research, a new department with
Armstrong. He joined the company in

1960.
1954

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. F. L. SHIPMAN, JR.,
a daughter, Margaret McBroom, on July
10, 1967, in New York City.

Joun D. HANNON, vice president of T.
Rowe Price and Associates of Baltimore,
has been awarded the professional designa-

34

DupLey B. THOMAS, '55

tion of Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA)
by the Institute of Chartered Financial
Analysts after completing a course of
study and passing a series of examinations.

At the annual convention of the Episcopal
Church in the Diocese of Florida, ROBERT
P. SmirH, JR., was elected chairman of the
Diocese Department of College Work. He
was also a lay deputy to the General
Convention last fall. Smith is a practicing
attorney in Jacksonville, Fla.

The Virginia General Assembly recently
elected Witty R. WRIGHT, JR., as judge
of the Alexandria Corporation Court.
Wright has been practicing law in Alex-
andria since 1959. He and his wife have
five children.

Dr. Georce H. MITCHELL has been elected
vice-president of the Montgomery County
(Md.) Young Republicans. Also on the
ticket are BRANTLEY Barr, '53, and CLIFF
MITCHELL, ‘60, who are president and
treasurer respectively.

NicHo.as G. MANDAK, judge of Ringwood,
N. J. Municipal Court, has been presented
the Distinguished Service Award by the
Jaycees of Clifton, N.J. Mandak has been
active in many civic and political organiza-
tions.

For the past seven years, LEONARD F.
WinsLow, JR., has been active in invest-
ment real estate. He is vice president of
the Virginia Land Company and a di-
rector of the Monticello National Bank,
both of Charlottesville, Va.

Announcement was recently made that
Git Bocettt, JR., was promoted to Second
Vice President of Pilot Title Insurance
Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of
Pilot Life Insurance Company. Gil main-
tains his headquarters in Greensboro, N C.

Following several organizational changes,
WARREN T. BRAHAM was made vice-presi-
dent and trust officer with the American
National Bank & Trust Co., St. Paul,
Minn. He joined the bank in 1963 as
trust officer and was named assistant vice-
president in 1965. He was formerly as-
sociated with the Fidelity National Bank
& Trust Co. of Lynchburg.

PAUL MASLANSKy is still producing films
in Europe for United Artists Corp. He
and his wife were with the Israeli Army
during the war last June.

1955

PEGRAM HArRRISON is associated with the

law firm of Jones, Bird & Howell of
Atlanta, Ga.

RicHArp W. BANK is practicing obstetrics
and gynecology in Beverly Hills, Cal., and
is on the faculty of the University of
Southern California School of Medicine.

Still a student, Dr. Tom W. RosBINs, JR.,
is a resident in neuropsychiatry at the
Neuro-Psychiatric Institute in Princeton,
New Jersey.

While stationed in Washington with the
Marine Corps in 1956, DupLeEy B. THOMAS
attended night law school at George Wash-
ington University and received his degree
in 1960. After discharge from the Marine
Corps in 1958 he became a retail ad-
vertising salesman for the Washington
Post. Last year he was named Rotogravure
manager for the Post. He is married to
the former Elizabeth Platt and the couple
has two sons.

Dr. JoHN A. RuTHERFORD has been ap-
pointed Dean of the Division of Education
and Professor of Education at Radford
College, Radford, Va. Dr. Rutherford has
been on a year’s leave of absence from
the college to serve as director of the
Roanoke City school model kindergarten
program. The Division of Education of
Radford has approximately a thousand
students and twenty-two faculty members.

WALK C. Jones, III, is president of Walk
Jones, Mah and Jones, architects. His firm
served as architect for the Massachusetts
Eye & Ear Infirmary in Boston and for
the Baptist Hospital in Memphis, one of
the largest private hospitals in the U.S.

1956

BORN: Mr. and Mr. PETER JACOBS, a
daughter, Michele Cara Jacobs, on July
14, 1967. The family lives in New York
City.

James D. PerryMAN has been named
advertising and sales promotion manager
for Occidental Chemical Company of
Houston, Tex. Occidental Chemical is a
division of Occidental Petroleum Corpora-
tion which manufactures and markets
agricultural chemicals and chemical ferti-
lizer products. In his new position Perry-
man is responsible for the company’s over-
all promotional activities. Immediately
prior to joining Occidental, Perryman
was district marketing manager for Tulo-
ma Gas Products Company, a subsidiary

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

of Standard Oil Company, Indiana. Perry-
many is a past national chairman of the
U. S. Junior Chamber of Commerce's Out-
standing Farmer-Rancher Program. He
is a member of the Public Relations So-
ciety of America and the Houston Press
Club.

R. F. CHIsHOLM, Jr., with his family is
living in Brussels, Belgium, where he is
working as Benefits and Personnel Co-
ordinator of Esso Chemical, S.A., of
Belgium.

JoHN Grapau and his family are living
in Fairfield, Conn., where he has offices
as a director of Manpower, Inc., operating
in six cities in Fairfield County, Conn.,
and a seventh in Harrisburg, Pa.

In September, 1967, CarLtos T. BAILEY
joined Director Associates, a Washington,
D. C., market research firm specializing
in industrial materials.

GeoRGE F. MILLIGAN, a Des Moines, Lowa,
banker, has announced his candidacy
for state representative in the Republican
primary election. In the 1961 session of
the Iowa legislature, Milligan served as
legal assistant and bill drafter. Since 1961
he has been associated with the Iowa-Des
Moines National Bank, where he is an
assistant vice-president. Milligan is a
trustee of the Des Moines Area Council
of Churches; a member of the Chamber
of Commerce, where he is vice-chairman
of the civic affairs committee. He has
also served as the Chamber’s representative
on the Polk County Community Action
Council.

RICHARD A. ROSENBERG has been in the
practice of law for the past two years in
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., with the firm of
Johnson Heller & Rosenberg.

Dr. Georce I, SMITH, JR., is in the Air
Force and is serving as Chief of Medicine
at the Vandenberg Base Hospital in Cali-
fornia. He plans to enter private practice
later this year.

1957

Dr. BERNARD J. SCHAAF, who has been
associated with the Pacific Medical Center
in San Francisco, will be the chief resident
in urology at Fresno County General
Hospital in Fresno, Cal., beginning in
July.

JOHN MICHAEL GARNER is president of
Garner, Ward & Associates, a firm dealing
in personal and business life insurance,
group insurance, and pension plans. He
Was recently appointed a member of the
Florida Crippled Children’s Commission
by Governor Claude Kirk.

Ross H. Bayarp, professor at Wofford
College in Spartanburg S.C., has been ap-
pointed a member of the Planning Board
for Young Adult Education Commission
of the Presbyterian Church for the state
Organization.

SPRING 1968

DonALD S. Luria is technical director of
the IBM-City of New Haven (Conn.) Joint
Information System Study, a_ two-year
effort to explore the potential applications
of computer technology in urban govern-
ments.

JAMEs HARRISON Davis is a zone geologist
with Humble Oil Co. and is living in
Midland, Tex. The Davises have three
daughters.

LARRY ATLER, practicing attorney in
Denver, Colorado, recently announced the
opening of the third Bratskellar Restau-
rant, which shall be located between the
Hungary “i” and Trader Vic’s Senor Pico
Restaurants in Ghirardelli Square, San
Francisco, Cal. The other two restaurants
are in Piper’s Alley, Old Town Chicago,
and in Larimer Square, Denver, Colo.
Further plans call for other Bratskellars in
San Diego, Houston, Atlanta and the
Twin Cities area of Baltimore and
Columbus.

‘THOMAS O. Moore was recently appointed
traffic supervisor-personnel for the C&P
Telephone Company of Maryland.

In September, 1967, CHARLES B. RICHARD-
SON joined a Reserve Squadron at the
Naval Air Station in Alameda, Cal. He is

flying C-118 aircraft.
1958

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WARREN NUESSLE,
a son, William Randolph, on Jan. 27,
1968. The family lives in Ardmore, Pa.

After completing a course of study and
passing a series of examinations, WILLIAM
I. WINCHESTER has been awarded the pro-
fessional designation of Chartered Finan-
cial Analyst (CFA). The Institute of
Chartered Financial Analysts promotes
professional standards among persons who
analyze stocks and bonds for investments.

S. Scorr WHIPPLE is currently an instruc-
tor at Famous Artists Writers School in
Westport, Conn. He and his wife, Linda,
live in a _ reconditioned 18th century
colonial church.

RANDAL F. ROBINSON, currently a_profes-
sor of English at Michigan State, has been
awarded a fellowship from the National
Endowment for Humanities. He will pur-
sue studies in England.

Gary D. MCPHERSON is head _ basketball
coach at V.M.I. His team had a winning
Southern Conference record this year, its
first such record in the last 21 years.

Effective Feb. 1, 1968, WILFRED M. KULL-
MAN, JR., became a general partner in
the investment firm of Howard, Weil,
Labouisse, Friedricks in New Orleans. He
and his wife have two sons.

Just promoted, THEopore G. RICH, JR.,
is assistant merchandise manager for men
and boy’s division for Gimble Company’s
six stores in Philadelphia, Pa.

Having left the practice of law, WILLIAM
B. Wispom, Jr., has joined the investment
counselors firm of Dahlberg, Kelly, and
Wisdom, Inc., in New Orleans, La.

J. E. Lipscoms, III, is a 1968 member
of the Million Dollar Round Table for
insurance salesmen. This is his fifth year
of qualification.

In January, JOHN C. BINForD was named
district manager for New Mexico and
West Texas district of Goodbody & Co.,
member of the N.Y. stock exchange.

Gov. Kirk of Florida has announced the
appointment of Ropcer P. DoyLe as a
member of the Florida State Turnpike
Authority, grd Congressional District.
Doyle is vice-president of the Citizens
and Peoples National Bank in Pensacola
and is an adjunct professor at the Uni-
versity of West Florida, teaching a course
in money and banking. He is extremely
active in civic and church affairs in Pensa-
cola.

WILLIAM ALBERT TOWLER, III, is associated
with the Charlotte, N.C., office of the
Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. He is presi-
dent of the Spring Valley Community
Club and treasurer of the Charlotte Na-
ture Museum Association.

The assistant professor of history at
Georgetown University in Washington,
D.C., is RicHArD R. Duncan. He is also
editor of the Maryland Historical Maga-
zine,

Dr. IRWIN R. BERMAN is currently Assistant
Chief, Dept. of Human Studies, Walter
Reed Army Institute of Research in
Washington. Following his discharge from
the Army in 1969, he expects to enter a
career of academic surgery.

C. PARKHILL Mays, JRr., and his family are
living in Lakeland, Fla., where he is in
the general practice of law and is a
partner in his law firm.

1959

MARRIED: SAMUEL S. MERRICK and Mrs.
William Caspari were married on Nov.
25, 1967. The couple live in Lutherville,
Md.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Davin B. Root, a
son, Eric Douglas, on March 25, 1968.
The Roots now have four sons and the
family resides in Erie, Pa.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. S. MELVILLE Mc-
CarTHY, a son, Christopher Melville, on
Feb. 12, 1968. Mel and Trina are in Gain-
esville, Fla., where he will receive his
bachelor of science degree in mechanical
engineering from the University of Florida
in June. Mel plans to continue in gradu-
ate studies.

Time Magazine in New York City has just
recently made REGINALD K. BRACK, JR.,
its Travel Advertising Supervisor, Mr.

35

and Mrs. Brack have two children and
the family lives in Stamford, Conn.

IRVIN EBAUGH, JR., is Eastern Sales Man-
ager for Bruning Paint Company, Inc. He
makes his home in Towson, Md.

Returning from Vietnam in Nov., 1967,
Major Bruce MacGowan is now assigned
to Wilmington, Del., as advisor to the
Delaware National Guard. He and _ his
wife have two children.

Dr. RicHarD P. CARTER, JR., is living in
Atlanta, Ga., where he is presently the
head of the Chemical Research Section
for the Armour Agricultural Chemical Co.

LAURENCE M. SMAIL, Attorney-Advisor,
Office of the Counsel, U. S. Army Aviation
Materiel Laboratories (AVLABS), Fort
Eustis, Va., was admitted to the bar of
the United States Supreme Court on
March 8, 1968. He was presented to the
full court and welcomed to the bar by
Chief Justice Earl Warren. Prior to his
employment at AVLABS in 1966, Smail
was an associate with a Newport News,
Va., law firm. He was also a legal officer
with the rank of Captain with Head-
quarters Special Troops at TCFE. Smail,
his wife, Katherine, and their daughter
reside in Newport News, Va. He is past
president of the Brentwood Civic League,
is active in the PTA and attends the
Warwick United Church of Christ.

The Secretary-Treasurer of Communitron,
Inc., of Sterling, Ill., is Lours VotcHT SMITH.
He is also assistant manager of WIVM
Radio. The Smiths have two children.

JouNn G. KoebeL, JR., is now assistant vice-
president, Commercial Banking Division,
Pittsburgh National Bank. He joined the
bank in 1959 as a junior credit analyst,
was promoted to administrative assistant
and elected assistant secretary in 1964, and
was made assistant cashier in 1965.

Joun D. Bassett, III, has been appointed
to the top management post of the J. D.
Bassett Manufacturing Company. He has
been named vice-president and general
manager of the two Bassett plants. The
J. D. Bassett Manufacturing Co. is the
largest and oldest of the five Bassetts in-
dustries,

Mayor JAMeEs R. Lowe returned from
Vietnam in May, 1967, and is now serving
with the U.S. Army Explosive Ordnance
Disposal (Bomb Disposal) Unit at Red-
stone Arsenal, Alabama.

36

 

WERNER J. DEIMAN, an assistant professor
of English at Bates College in Lewiston,
Me., has won a summer stipend for study
in New York City from the National En-
dowment for the Humanities.

CHARLES W. Core, JRr., has been made
vice-president, Commercial Lending Di-
vision, of the First National Bank of
Maryland. He lives in Owings Mills, Md.

Henry H. BOHLMAN is a resident in
orthopedic surgery at Johns Hopkins Hos-
pital in Baltimore.

1960

MARRIED: Epwarp H. Outp, III, and
Miss Elizabeth Barr Hawkins were mar-
ried March 29, 1968, in Roanoke. He and
his bride will reside in Alexandria, Va.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. J. FRANK SURFACE,
a son, David, in September, 1967. The
young man joins an older brother, Frank.
The senior Frank is a partner in the Jack-
sonville (Fla.) law firm of Mahoney, Hed-
low, Chambers & Adams.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. PAuL R. PLAWIN,
a son, Paul B., on March 11, 1968. The
young man joins a sister and the family
lives in Des Moines, Iowa, where the
senior Plawin is connected with the
Meredith Publishing Company.

CARTER S. KAUFMANN is a partner in an
electronic firm specializing in closed cir-
cuit television and video recorders. The
Kaufmans have two children.

After three years with Dun & Brad-
street, ALLEN FEerGuson is with F. W.
Craigie & Co., a Richmond based in-
vestment banking house.

Roy FLANNAGAN received his Ph.D. in
English from the University of Virginia
in 1966. He is married to the former Julia
Porter and the couple has two children.
Roy is now an assistant professor at Ohio
University at Athens, Ohio.

PHILLIP B. ROBERTSON expects to receive
his doctorate in Marine Science from the
University of Miami in June, 1968. He
has been appointed to a_ post-doctoral
research fellowship at Wood’s Hole, Mass.

DANIEL B. LEONARD is currently institu-
tional sales manager for McDonnell and
Company in the Pacific Northwest. He
works out of San Francisco.

Davip S. Ernest lives in Akron, Ohio,
where he is in the Public Relations De-

CHARLES H. SMITH, ’61

partment of Goodyear International.

The Tennessee Life Insurance News car-
ried in its Dec., 1967, issue an article by
W. Hayes Gowen, JR. The article relates
to the Self-Employed Individual’s Tax
Retirement Act, commonly referred to as
HR-10. The important act is a _ plan
under which self-employed individuals
can establish retirement programs, in-
cluding a substantial proportion of ordi-
nary life insurance. Mr. Gowen joined the
First National Bank of Memphis in 1961.
In 1963 he was promoted to Assistant
Trust Officer and in Feb., 1965, advanced
to full trust officer status and assumed
responsibility for the Trust Development
Division. Gowen is a member of the
Phoenix Club of Memphis, The American
Institute of Banking, and is also an as-
sociate member of the National Associa-
tion of Life Underwriters. He is married
to the former Miss Gay Morris.

JoserH J. SmiruH is currently an account
executive with Mason & Co., member of
the New York Stock Exchange, in their
Washington, D. C., office. There are now
five W&L men with Mason & Co.

WILLIAM B. BLUNDIN is a senior invest-
ment analyst specializing in bank and
insurance stocks with Paine, Webber,
Jackson & Curtis in New York City.

1961

MARRIED: Roy CARPENTER and Miss
Judy Chadwick were married in La Jolla,
Cal. on Sept. g, 1967. Roy expects to
receive his Ph.D. in June, 1968.

After return from Vietnam in Sept., 1967,
CAPTAIN STEPHEN L. THOMPSON is serv-
ing with the U. S. Army Medical Corps
in Ft. Benning, Ga. While overseas,
Thompson was awarded the Bronze Star,
the Air Medal, and the Soldier’s Medal.
He expects to be released from the Army
and to start medical practice in Rust-
burg, Va., in August, 1968.

CHARLES H. SmitH has been appointed
assistant manager of First National City
Bank’s branch at Maiden Lane-Water
Street in New York City. He joined the
bank in 1961. Charles and his wife, the
former Lottie Lanier, and their two sons
live in Summit, N. J.

Employed by Bankers Trust Company of
New York City, WILLIAM H. HERALD and
his wife, Kirty, have moved to Morris-
town, N. J.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

WALTER J. CRATER, JR., is presently as-
sociated with the Radiation Systems, Inc.,
of McLean, Va.

Moving to Indianapolis in 1965, STEPHEN
P. DEGENHARDT is presently the Plant
Superintendent for the U. S. Envelope Co.

In June Dr. MILFORD SCHWARTZ, JR., will
finish a pediatric residency at the Uni-
versity of Chicago Hospital. He expects
then to serve in the Medical Corps of
the Army.

JOHN W. ATWELL, JR., has returned from
a research trip in Finland and the Soviet
Union. He is now finishing his Ph.D. in
history at Princeton University.

WILLIAM N. Orrutt, IV, is in his fourth
year at the University of Kentucky Col-
lege of Medicine. He expects to receive
his degree in May, 1968, and serve an
internship in New Orleans next year. He
is due to begin a residency in opthalmol-
ogy in 1969 at the Wills Eye Hospital in
Phialadelphia.

After graduation from Georgetown Uni-
versity Law School, STEPHEN H. PALEY
became an attorney in the U. S. Depart-
ment of Justice. He is married to the
former Maralyn Griff and the couple has
one son.

PeTeR T. SrRAuB is a member of the Vir-
ginia and Missouri Bar Associations and
is a practicing attorney in St. Louis with
the firm of Evans & Dixon.

1962

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS L. FEAZELL,
a son, Robert Kent Feazell, on Oct. 1,
1967. The family lives in Ashland, Ky.

After serving two years with the U. S.
Army in Europe, R. WILLIAM HAMNER
entered Vanderbilt Law School. Follow-
ing graduation in Jan., 1968, he became
associated with the law firm of Archer,
Patrick, & Sidener in East Point, Ga.

RICHARD ALAN RApis has his own law
practice in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

For the past year and a half, Ricnarp L.
LANG has been associated with the law
firm of Bauckham & Reed in Kalamazoo,
Mich. He was formerly with the American
Nat'l. Bank & Trust Co., in Kalamazoo.

RICHARD Lee KELLY has been appointed
manager of a branch of Equitable Trust
Co. of Baltimore. The branch office is in
Cedonia. He has been associated with
Equitable Trust since 1965 and was form-
erly assistant manager of the Hampden
Office.

1963

MARRIED: Rosert W. Lawson, III, and
Priscilla Plumb were married Feb. 4, 1968,
in Pinehurst, N.C. Robert is presently
attending the Law School at the Univers-
ity of Virginia.

SPRING 1968

MARRIED: DANIEL RANDOLPH COLE, Jr.,
and Judith Ann Mantell were married
Sept. 9, 1967. Randolph is associated with
the law firm of Bernstein, Alpa, Klavan
& Mannes in Washington, D.C.

MARRIED: Davin C. SWANN and Nance
Elizabeth Conkle were married on July
8, 1967, in Cashiers, N.C. The Swanns
live in Asheboro, N.C., where David is
connected with the Wachovia Bank &
‘Trust.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Lewis G. Nog, Jr.,
a son, David Lewis, on July 5, 1967. The
family lives in Frankfort, Ky.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. FRANK O. EVANs,
Jr., a son, Frank O. Evans, III, on Feb.
ig, 1968. Dr. Evans is completing his
internship at the University Hospital in
Birmingham, Ala. He plans to do his
residency in obstetrics and gynecology at
Grady Hospital in Atlanta.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL FLETCHER
BoyLes, a son, Daniel Fletcher, Jr. on
Aug. 11, 1967. The Boyles live in Houston,
Tex., where he has taken a position with
Republic National Bank of Houston as
assistant vice-president and loan officer.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. NICHOLAs S. SMITH,
a son, Nicholas, Jr., on Jan. 13, 1968. The
Smiths are living in North Palm Beach,
Fla.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JosepH TOoPINKA, a
son, Joseph Baar, on Feb. 23, 1968. Joe
and his wife, the former Judith Baar,
and son reside in Riverside, Ill.

JouN P. Marcu has been promoted to the
Commercial Loan Department of the State
National Bank of El Paso, Tex.

E. ANDY LEONARD has the position of
handling Army Security Affairs at Harvard
University. He is making his home in
Arlington, Mass.

Davip ‘T. H. SPENCER has been transferred
by IBM from New York City to Boston
where he is a systems engineer for the
company.

H. KIRKLAND HENRY, JR., is currently the
Public Relations Representative for
Household Finance Corporation in Mon-
tana, Wyoming, and North and South
Dakota. He was married in Aug., 1967,
to the former Barbara C. Ehrhart of
Wilmette, Ill.

Since July, 1967, AusTIN C. Bray, JR., has
been associated with the law firm of
Wynne Jeaffe & Tinsley in Dallas, Texas.
Austin graduated from the Columbia Law
School in June, 1967. While at Columbia
he was elected editor-in-chief of the law
school newspaper, the oldest law school
newspaper in the country. He expects to
attend Clare College, Cambridge Uni-
versity, during the fall of 1968 where he
will read for a Diploma in International
Law.

Formerly with Chesapeake and Potomac
Telephone Company, E. BRENT WELLS, II,
is now with Xerox Corporation in Ro-
chester, N. Y. He is manager in the corpo-
rate Tele-communications Section.

After becoming a member of the West
Virginia Bar Association in May, 1967,
J. HotmMes Morrison became associated
with the Kanawha Valley Bank in Charles-
ton where he is the trust administrator.

Davip W. Bevans is currently serving as
General Medical Officer in the USAF, sta-
tioned at Luke AFB, Arizona.

Ropert A. YOuNG, III, is vice-president in
charge of computer services for the Na-
tional Bank of Commerce in Dallas, Tex.
He was formerly associated with Arkansas
Best Corp. in Fort Smith, Ark., as opera-
tions supervisor.

Lewis LEIGH, JR., has formed a law part-
nership with his father, W. Lewis Leigh,
with offices in Fairfax, Va.

General Aniline & Film Corp. has named
RICHARD S. REID administrative assistant,
Floor Products Division. Mr. Reid joined
GAF’s former Ruberoid Division last July
as administrative assistant to the vice-
president and general manager of the di-
vision’s floor tile operations.

1964

MARRIED: Robert H. Powe t, III, and
Miss Elayne Parsons were married June
17, 1967. After a clerkship with Federal
Judge Walter Hoffman, he transferred to
Judge Richard B. Kellam of the East Dis-
trict of Virginia. Mr. Powell will become
associated with the firm of Williams,
Cocke, Worrell and Kelly of Norfolk in
the spring of 1968.

MARRIED: Cuartes B. Rowe and Miss
Nancy Brooke Taylor were married Feb.
17, 1968, in Norfolk, Va. Jim is practic-
ing law in Courtland, Va.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JACK YARBROUGH,
a son, Jack, in October, 1967. Jack is
working as a systems analyst for United
Airlines in Chicago.

One of the honors of the Mobile, Ala.,
Mardi Gras festivities was bestowed upon
Howarp M. SCHRAMM, JR. He reigned as
King Felix III during four days of Mardi
Gras festivities in Mobile. One of the
largest crowds to attend a Mobile Mardi
Gras in history saw him crown his queen,
Miss Tullulah Dunlap Quina, in a bril-
liant ceremony in the Municipal Auditor-
ium,

JAMes W. Heap, III, is finishing his
Ph.D. dissertation in geology at Brown
University. Beginning in September, 1968,
he expects to be with the Space Sciences
and Advanced Manned Missions Divi-
sion of the Lunar Exploration Department
of Bellcomm, Incorporated, in Washing-
ton, D.C.

37

Remp DENNIS retired as a captain in the
Marine Corps after suffering injuries in
Vietnam. He is now working for a news-
paper in Warrenton, Va.

JERE D. CRAVENs will serve an internship
in pediatrics at the University of Colorado
Medical Center in Denver, Colorado. Mr.
Cravens is expected to receive his Doctor
of Medicine from Washington University’s
School of Medicine in June.

A. J. BARRANCO, JR., is in the practice of
law in Lake Wales, Fla. He is associated
with the firm of Bradley, Johnson, Nel-
son & Young.

After receiving his master’s degree in
Latin American history JOHN MASON ALL-
Good is continuing his work toward a
Ph.D. at the University of North Carolina.
He is currently teaching in the Univer-
sity’s modern civilization course and in
freshman _ history.

Having been with the firm since gradu-
ation, RICHARD J. TAvss became a partner
of the Norfolk law firm of Sacks, Sacks,
Kendall & ‘Tavss, effective January 1,
1968. All of the partners of this firm are
Washington and Lee alumni.

Britt NELson Utz of Culpeper, Va., has
been named a special assistant to Sen.
Harry F. Byrd, Jr. He was a staff judge
advocate in the Air Force for three years
and worked one year as an attorney for
the Richmond office of Internal Revenue.
He is president of the Richmond chapter
of the Federal Bar Association.

In January NATHANIEL J. COHEN received
his law degree from the Law School of
William and Mary, and he is clerking for
Judge Richard Keller, U.S. District
Court in Norfolk.

Lr. JAY Foster JAcor is currently serv-
ing as disbursing officer for the staffs of
CINCPACFLT and COMSERVPAC at
Pearl Harbor.

Since completing his master’s degree in
anthropology at the University of Penn-
sylvania in August, 1967, JOHN M. Mc-
DANIEL is making plans to return to the
Peruvian jungle to complete his research
lor 2 FA).

FREDERICK E. COOPER graduated from the
University of Georgia Law School in
June, 1967, where he served as president
of the Student Bar Association and re-
ceived the Outstanding Senior Award. He
is now a Captain in the Army Judge Advo-
cate General’s Corps.

JAMEs S. MAFFITT has moved to Baltimore,
Md., where he is working in the Estate
Planning Department of the Mercantile-
Safe Deposit and Trust Company.

1965

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RALPH LEE GIL-
38

LUM, a son, Lee Scott, born October 31,
1967. Ralph is a SP-5, US Army Corps of
Engineers, now stationed in Brunssum,
Netherlands.

L. WAYNE TOWNSEND is in his third year
of the general practice of law in Rich-
mond, Va., with the firm of. Miller &
Rosman.

GeorcE W. Price, III, is the Virginia
sales representative for the Norwich Phar-
macal Co. and makes his home in Rich-
mond, Va.

After completing his master’s degree in
business administration from Chicago
Graduate School of Business, HowArp W.
BussE: is on Management Development
Program at the Mellon National Bank and
Trust Co. in Pittsburgh, Pa. He and his
wife have a daughter one year old.

STEPHEN R. Crook has completed two
years of Army service, one of which was
in Vietnam. He and his wife are living
now in Battle Creek, Mich., where he
is training for a sales position with Clark
Equipment Co.

J. Frank WiiiAMs, III, is in his third
year in Richmond, working for the firm
of Custom Business Forms, Inc. He is mar-
ried to the former Ellen Stuart Gordon
of Richmond.

SAM P. Simpson, IV, is district sales man-
ager for Country Club Malt Liquor for
the states of Texas and Louisiana. He
makes his home in San Antonio.

HENRY B. QUEKEMEYER, JR., Was pro-
moted to Army captain in January. He
is stationed near Wurzburg, Germany,
and is chief of the administrative serv-
ices division of the division’s headquart-
ers.

1966

MARRIED: Cart BARRETT ALLDREDGE
and Jane Wilson were married June 3,
1967. Barry and Jane are residing in New
Orleans, La., where he is a second-year
medical student at Tulane University.

WILLIAM R. WILSON, JR., is currently in
the U.S. Air Force. He expects to com-
plete his service and resume his studies
in $.M.U. Law School in 1969.

JEFFREY G. HAVERSON is associated with
the law firm of Kantor & Kantor in Nor-
folk, Va.

Bruce MILLER is assisting his father in
selecting and developing sporting goods
and sport clothing lines as a manufactur-
er’s representative in Washington, Oregon,
and Idaho.

After completing his MBA at Wharton
this fall, CHARLEs N. GRIFFIN is presently
on active duty with the Marine Corps at
Quantico. His wife, Jody, is teaching
second grade in the Prince William
County School system.

1967

MARRIED: WILL1AM H. GirvIN, JR., and
Patricia Crawford Forbes were married
August 19, 1967 in Ashton, Md. Bill is
doing graduate work at Michigan State
University.

MARRIED: RIcHARD DEWAR ALLEN and
Judith Lynne Barrett were married in
Chevy Chase, Md., on Dec. 2, 1967.

The firm of Cankler, Cox, McClain &
Andrews in Atlanta Ga., announces that
JAMeEs C. TREADWAY, JR., has become as-
sociated with the firm in the general prac-
tice of law. After receiving his prepara-
tory education at Rollins College and
the University of Georgia, Jim graduated
with honors from Washington and Lee
School of Law. He is a member of Phi
Delta Phi Legal Fraternity, Phi Beta Kap-
pa, ODK, the Order of the Coif, and was
Editor-in-Chief of the Washington and
Lee Law Review.

WILLIAM H. Lowry was commissioned an
ensign in the Naval Reserve upon com-
pletion of the Aviation Officer Course
at the Naval Aviation School, Pensacola.
He served as regimental commander of
the officers’ candidate corps and _ was
named the outstanding athlete of his class.
He is continuing training under the Naval
Aviation Program and is a member of the
Pensacola NAS Command Choir.

Doing graduate study in criminology at
University of Pennsylvania, Kip ARM-
STRONG still finds time to play hockey
with the Wissahickon Skating Club, and
lacrosse with the Philadelphia Lacrosse
Club.

The Army’s fourth highest decoration for
valor, the Bronze Star embellished with a
“Vv” indicating heroism in combat, was
awarded to 2nd LT. FREDERICK N. SUTTLE,
Jr., a native of Newport News, Va. Lt.
Suttle was cited for “heroism in connec-
tion with military operations against a
hostile force” August 21, 1967, in South
Vietnam. Suttle is now stationed in Little
Rock, Ark.

ROBERT J. SCHEELEN is employed as a day-
care teacher for TAP in Roanoke, Va.

Tracy DucGAN is at the University of
South Carolina in the math department.
He is working toward a Ph.D. in mathe-
matics.

Now attending Syracuse University grad-
uate school, WARREN E. STEWART is work-
ing toward a master’s degree in adver-
tising. He is also playing club lacrosse.

Barry L. MAck is an attorney for the
Small Business Administration in Wash-
ington, D. C.

JEFFREY L. Warp is a law clerk for
Judge C. A. Thompson, associate judge
of the Court of Special Appeals of Mary-
land.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

In Memoriam

 

1894

FRANK J. LOONEY, a retired lawyer who
helped to frame the Louisiana State Con-
stitution in 1921, died at his residence
in Shreveport, La., Feb. 17, 1968. After
obtaining his law degree at Washington
and Lee he was admitted to the bar in
the state of New York and entered prac-
tice there. After a short time he returned
to Shreveport and was admitted to the
Bar of Louisiana in July, 1894. Mr.
Looney served in the Spanish-American
War and in World War I. In 1966 he
was awarded the Americanism Award of
the Veterans of Foreign Wars. For many
years Mr. Looney served as a member of
the State Democratic Central Committee.
He held membership in numerous legal,
civic, fraternal and philanthropic organi-
zations.

1898

ROBERT BASIL PRICE of Mexico, Mo., died
December 28, 1967.

1910

ROBERT S. HUTCHESON, long time resident
and businessman in Lexington, Va., died
Feb. 5, 1968. Mr. Hutcheson had been in
Rockbridge County and Lexington since
World War I and was engaged in lumber
and building supplies. He was also active
as a farmer and cattle raiser.

1912

Jupce A. G. Livexy, Sr., died March 1,
1968, in a Lebanon, Va. hospital. He was
judge of the 27th judicial circuit from
1927 to 1937, a member of the Iions Club
and the Masonic Lodge. Judge Lively was
former chairman of the gth District of
the Democratic Central Committee and
served on the Virginia State Conservation
Commission. Judge Lively was a distin-
guished member of the State Bar Associa-
tion and an ardent supporter of alumni
activities in the Appalachian Chapter.

A prominent Coleman, Tex., merchant and
stockman, Crcit Gray, died suddenly at
his home on January 5, 1968. Mr. Gray
assumed the management of the family
business, the Gray Mercantile firm, fol-
lowing his return from service in World
War I. Later the firm entered the appli-
ance business and it also handled farm
implements. Mr. Gray was a Mason and
a Shriner. He was past president of the
Kiwanis Club and had served as elder
and deacon in the Presbyterian Church.

1917

MARION SUTTON SANDERS, a retired engi-

SPRING 1968

neer, died unexpectedly of a heart attack
on April 17, 1968, in Wytheville, Va. He
received his B.S. degree from Washington
and Lee, and later his B.S. in Electrical
Engineering from M.I.T., and his M.S.
from Columbia University. He served for
a year on the faculty of M.I.T. He was
in the Army in World War I after gradua-
tion from Washington and Lee. He was
a member of Phi Gamma Delta on the
campus.

Mr. Sanders was in business in Bristol,
Va., from 1926 to 1930; but during the
major part of his active career he lived
in Wytheville and was a consulting engi-
neer in many engineering enterprises over
the country.

He was a charter member and former
president of the Wythe County Chamber
of Commerce, a director of the First
National Exchange Bank of Virginia, and
former president of the Wytheville Rotary
Club and, for the past five years, president
of the Wythe Country Club.

Few alumni showed a more lasting,
loyal devotion to Washington and Lee
than Marion. This was demonstrated both
in unusually generous giving and in
participating constructively in many de-
velopments at the University. His in-
terests were focused strongly on the living
members of the Class of 1917, and he
maintained active, personal contact with
them. The highlight of the very successful
50th Anniversary Class Reunion in May,
1967, was the opening dinner given by
Marion for the returning members of the
class and their wives. He will be deeply
missed, both by those of his college gen-
eration and the many in his home com-
munity with whom he was associated in
helpful and unselfish service.

He is survived by his widow, Caroline
Sharpe Sanders, and one son.

1919

ALLEN ROMAIN LECOMPTE died Feb. 14,
1968, in De Ridder, La. Admitted to the
Louisiana Bar in 1920, Mr. LeCompte
went to De Ridder, La., in 1922 and
established his law office. Later his firm
became LeCompte, Hall and Coltharp.
Mr. LeCompte was city judge in De
Ridder from 1930 until 1956. He retired
in 1966 as Judge of the goth Judicial
District. Mr. LeCompte was active in
civic affairs and had been legal advisor
for the city for over 35 years. In 1962 he
was named Citizen of the Year by the
local civic clubs.

1920

JoHN Hunt SIFForD, JR., died in Balti-
more, Md., on Jan. 18, 1968. Mr. Sifford
was an investment banker with Hopper,
Soliday, Brooke and Sheridan, Inc., and
had been with the company since 1928.
He had been active with the organization
during its several mergers until his illness
last fall.

James W. McKown died Oct. 26, 1967,
after a short illness. Mr. McKown lived

 

in Waynesboro, Pa. where he was associat-
ed for many years with McKown and
Wolff, a home furnishing company.

1921

FRED C. Parks, prominent and long time
attorney at law in Abingdon, Va., died
Feb. 6, 1968. Mr. Parks was a former
deputy clerk of the U.S. District Court, a
former Commonwealth’s Attorney for
Washington County, and a member of the
Senate of Virginia for four years. He was
a director of the Farmers Exchange Bank
in Abingdon, Va., and also a director of
the Barter Theatre. Mr. Parks served for
many years as class agent for 1921 Law.

Mr. HERBERT BARNES, long-time attorney
and farmer in Accomac, Va. died Jan.
18, 1968.

JOHN WILSON Bowyer, chairman of the
English Department at Southern Metho-
dist University, died in a Dallas hospital
Feb. 1, 1968. A native of Lexington, Va.,
Dr. Bowyer was a Howard Houston fel-
low, a Stedman fellow and a _ Dexter
traveling fellow. He had taught at V.P.I.,
the College of Charleston, S.C., Harvard
University and Southern Methodist Uni-
versity. Dr. Bowyer was author, editor
and co-author of several books.

1924

J. Beverty Doo.ey died Nov. 3, 1967. Mr.
Dooley was manager in Baltimore, Md.,
of the General Adjustment Bureau.

1925

THEODORE M. SIMMONS, a prominent in-
surance broker in St. Louis, Mo., died
Dec. 10, 1967. Mr. Simmons had a wide
career in insurance having agencies in
New Orleans until 1938, in Colombia,
South America, until 1940, and since May,
1944, conducted his insurance business
from St. Louis.

ROBERT W. STUCKENRATH, an attorney of
Lewistown, Pa., and a member of the
Mifflin County Bar Association, died un-
expectedly on Feb. 20, 1968. After receiv-
ing his law degree from the University
of Pennsylvania, he was admitted to the
Dauphin County Bar in 1928. He went to
Lewistown in 1933 where he practiced law
for four years with the late Sen. Frederick
W. Culbertson. Beginning his own practice
in 1937, Mr. Stuckenrath became one of
the most widely known attorneys in the
state and a recognized authority in county
governmental affairs. Among other things
he was solicitor for the Mifflin County
Commissioners for 30 years and the Lewis-
town School Board for more than 25
years. He served as a U. S. Government
appeals agent for 27 years, retiring from
that position only last year. Mr. Stucken-
rath was an active church member, a
committeeman for the Boy Scouts, the
Chamber of Commerce, and Masons.

#9

EDGAR CARLYLE SMITH, a resident of Grand
Prairie, “Fex,, died Feb. 8, ig6e.

BYRON CHAUNCEY MOHLER, one-time man-
ager for Chrysler Distribution in Central
Mexico, died October 5, 1967. At the time
of his death he was residing in Mexico.

WALTER G. PUTNEY, long time resident
and tobacco merchant in Farmville, Va.
died Jan. 2, 1968. Mr. Putney had been
president of the Putney ‘Tobacco Co.;
president of the Farmville Tobacco Board
of Trade; and a Director of the First
National Bank of Farmville.

FRANK LEE Bowers died Nov. 11, 1967. He
was president and treasurer of Drexel
Knitting Mills Company of Drexel, N.C.,
and was also vice-president of Morganton
Hosiery Mills, Inc., in Morganton, N.C.

1930

Dr. WILLIAM W. WELSH, a physician in
Bishop, Cal., died Feb. 20, 1968. Dr.
Welsh, a native of Colorado, came to
Bishop from Gabbs, Nev., in 1966, fol-
lowing ten years of practice in the Nevada
mining community. He was a past presi-
dent of the Nevada Heart Association.
After moving to Bishop in 1966, Dr. Welsh
built the Indian Creek Medical Building
where he opened his office for general
practice. He was also on the staff of the
Northern Inyo Hospital.

1931

ARNOLD M. VicKERS, former Mayor of
Montgomery, W. Va., and long time prac-
ticing attorney, died Dec. 25, 1967.

i932

CHARLES A. Woop, JR., a retired Army
Colonel, QMC, died Feb. 11, 1968, in
Charleston, W.Va. Mr. Wood served as
class agent for the Alumni Association
for many years. In May, 1965, he retired
after more than forty years of continuous
service with various phases of military
life. His later years were spent with the
Selective Service State Headquarters in
Charleston where he was the State Pro-
curement Officer. Mr. Wood was a Mason,
a member of the American Legion, and a
member of the city and state Bar As-
sociations.

1933

After a prolonged illness, REED G. Mc-
DOUGALL, vice president of Shepard’s Cita-
tions, law book publishers, and nationally
known authority on legal aspects of alco-
holism, died March 14, 1968. Mr. Mc-
Dougall was vice president of the National
Council of Alcoholism and_ served as
special consultant to the North American
Judges Association. He lectured ex-
tensively on alcoholism before legal and
judicial organizations and was a con-
sultant to the Colorado Commission on
Alcoholism, the National Institute of Men-
tal Health and General Service Board of
Alcoholics Anonymous.

40

1934

SAMUEL MORTIMER WARD, III, an attorney,
died in March, 1968. In World War II
Mr. Ward served as Staff Legal Officer
for Commandant Naval Base in Boston,
and he also saw duty in Europe and Africa
in the 8th Amphibian Force. He was as-
sociated after the war years with a law
firm dealing with patent laws. Recently
he had made his home in Manchester,
Mass.

WILLIAM GREGG GROVE, JR., a former field
representative for Goodyear Tire and
Rubber Company, died March 8, 1968.
He was a resident of Logan, W. Va.

1935

WILLIAM I. TERHUNE, a former executive
in a drug and pharmaceutical business,
died November 20, 1967.

1936

SAMUEL M. GREENWOOD, III, an attorney
in Coatesville, Pa., died in January, 1968.

1939

EVERETT CLAY BRYANT, of Newman, Ga.,
died March 21, 1968. Mr. Bryant was a
prominent business, civic and church
leader. He was associated with Courts &
Company, stock brokers, and was a mem-
ber of the Central Baptist Church where
he was a deacon.

1940

GILBERT GARDNER, recently of Greenwich,
N.J., died following an automobile acci-
dent on Jan. 27, 1968. He was alone in
the car at the time of his death. Mr.
Gardner had a very long and_ varied
career in journalism and worked for many
of the leading newspapers in various cities
throughout the United States. Gardner
came to Bridgeton to work for the
Cumberland County edition of the At-
lantic City Press. Later he opened his
own public relations firm, Gardner Enter-
prises. He was assistant campaign man-
ager for Congressman Charles W. Sand-
man, Jr., in his successful campaign in
1966. Recently both Mr. Gardner and his
wife were employed in Philadelphia but
maintained their residence in Greenwich,
New Jersey.

GRAY LEE CARPENTER, formerly a_ public
relations consultant, died Feb. 21, 1968.
He was president of Gray L. Carpenter
& Associates, a firm specializing in pro-
grammed instruction. In 1960 he was one
of 60 top managers chosen to contribute
a chapter to the Top Management Hand-
book published by McGraw-Hill. Recently
he was a contributing author to the new
Handbook of Business Administration,
published by the same company. During
World War II, Mr. Carpenter served with
distinction with the U. S. Navy.

194]

Dr. HERBERT P. FRIEDMAN, JR., who had
a practice of obstetrics and gynecology in
La Miranda, Cal., died Nov. 14, 1967. At
one time Dr. Friedman was an assistant
professor at the University of California
School of Medicine.

1943

WILLIAM BAXTER WEBB, a prominent at-
torney in Charlotte, N.C., died Feb. 18,
1968. Formerly of Cincinnati, Ohio, Webb
was a graduate of the Harvard Law School
and served with the Air Force in World
War II. He was active in the Scout pro-
gram at Christ Episcopal Church. He was
a member of the Mecklenburg County Bar
Association and the North Carolina Bar
Association.

1945

Joun HeEstwoop Casey died in Billings,
Mont., on June 6, 1967. After two years
at Washington and Lee Mr. Casey was
commissioned in the Navy and during
WW II served as gunnery officer on a
landing ship tank in the Okinawa Cam-
paign. Upon his discharge in 1946, he
returned to W&L, later receiving both an
undergraduate degree in geology and a
law degree. He worked as a landman and
a geologist in Texas and in Montana. In
1954 he moved to Billings, formed an in-
dependent firm as a consulting geologist,
and developed great success as an estab-
lished oil finder and became a leader in
the Montana geological profession and
among the many Civic, social, and religious
Properties Corp. He also was cited for
activities which he served.

RICHARD ADAIR KIMBALL, an employee of
the Cal-Tech Oil Company, died Jan. 22,
1968, in Manila, Philippines. Born in
Shanghai, China, Dick was a Navy lieu-
tenant during World War II. He joined
Cal-Tech in 1948 and saw service with
them in China for a three-year period.

1947

Jor Ler SILVERSTEIN, JR., died in Chicago,
Ill, on March 20, 1968. Mr. Silverstein
was a distinguished practicing attorney in
Chicago, serving aS a research attorney
for the American Bar Foundation. He
was also a_ project director for the
American Bar Foundation and was the
author of books on civil procedure and

defense of the poor in criminal cases.

Mr. Silverstein provided outstanding
leadership in research and publications of
the National Legal Aid Association. His
interest in his alma mater was evidenced
by his service as class agent for several
years.

1953

JAMES WILLIAM STUMP, an attorney of
Fairfax, Va., died on April 8, 1968. He
had just recently become a member of
the law firm of Bauknight, Prichard, Mc-
Candlish & Williams in Fairfax.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

<LI SE

Composer

at

Work

 

Photo by Frank Parsons

A composer is often thought of as one who sits down at the piano
and meticulously picks out his melodies, penning the notes as he
goes. Some do; some don’t. Robert Stewart, professor of music at
Washington and Lee, is one who doesn’t. He conceives his music
in his mind and then in the solitude of his study at home he puts
the notes on paper. Often he does not actually “‘hear” his compositions
until they are performed. In the scene above, Prof. Stewart is at work
composing—and from such silence comes lovely sounds. He has more
than 130 compositions to his credit: his “String Quartet No. 3” was
recently performed to critical acclaim by the Lenox Quartet at the
Regional Composers’ Forum at the University of Alabama. While
there, he was elected president of the Southeastern Composers’

League—a tribute to a man and his music and an honor for Wash-
ington and Lee.

A a NN re

 

 

EME OF Oe ge Rwy
*

BERR tern ree

RE PEI ee eh RE me

ae

 

 

 

wi
ee
120
W and L Date Book ene
eb
1968-69 Mi ea
as ay =
| ie : 7 MO)
July 12 Washington and Lee Day, HemisFair 19 20 21 23 23 24 25 [BZ s
Sept. 10-12 Freshman Camp CL nH te

. : 8:3; '4,-6,6 (7-8
Sept. 13-17 Registration i i i i i i
Sept. 18 Classes Begin 30
JULY
° BS ime aire oe
Oct. 19 Homecoming (Hampden-Sydney) 1iietee
4 7

Oct. 25-26 Opening Dances 21 22 23 24 25 26 27

AUGUST

Nov. 1-3 Parents’ Weekend sutwtre

2 8s

* . 48 OT) ae

Nov. 27-Dec. 1 ‘Thanksgiving Holidays 1 12 13 14 15 16 17
25 26 27 28 29 30 31

Dec. 21-Jan. 5 Christmas Holidays SEPTEMBER |
Ss M w 8
. . .) even wesley e
Jan. 18-Jan. 30 Examinations 8 9 10 11 12 15.14
i 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
Jan. 20 Lee’s Birthday-Founders er
: OCTOBER
Day Convocation oR ne
31415 16 17 18 19
Jan. 31-Feb. 1 Fancy Dress 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
y 27 28 29 30 31
Feb. 8 Second Semester Begins NOVEMBER

1 2

3.4 eee
0 11 12 13 14 15 16
7 18 19 20 21 22 23
4 25 26 27 28 29 30

DECEMBER
Smee ee ae oe

Mar. 29-Apr. 6 Spring Holidays
Apr. 18-19 Spring Dances

May 9-11 Alumni Reunions ay alias bah ame
ian 22 25 24 25 26 27 28
May 23-June 3 Examinations 29 30 31
1969
June 5 Baccalaureate JANUARY
wie ae ere ie
June 6 Commencement Exercises $67 8 $101
19 20 21 22 25 24 25

26 27 28 29 30 31
FEBRUARY

1968 VARSITY FOOTBALL sureties

Ss (4°3/ 8.7
10 11 12 13 14 11
17 18 19 20 21 2
24 25 26 27 28

Sept. 21 Guilford College (2 p.m.) Here

Sept. 28 Randolph-Macon (2 p.m.) ‘There YON tet ol

Oct. 5 Centre College (2 p.m.) ‘There i : : : i :
Oct. 12 Lafayette College (2 p.m.) Here taccel
Oct. 19 Hampden-Sydney* (2:30 p.m.) Here vedeie
Oct. 26 Bridgewater College (2 p.m.) Here 27 28 20 30
Nov. Univ. of the South** (2 p.m.) Here surwoers
Nov. g Southwestern Univ. (2 p.m.) There Ht

Nov. 16 Washington Univ. (2 p.m.) Here Rr eR

no

 

Ss

l

* Homecoming 3
** Parents’ Weekend 22 23 24 25 26 27 2

 

 

