FALL, 1961

Flying High:

National Recognition

 

Class Agents for 1961-62

1912-A—Gordon L. Groover, Chevy
Chase 15, Maryland

1912-L—Francis J. Heazel, P. O. Box 7437, Asheville, North
Carolina

1913-A—Richard A. Smith, 626 Stonewall Street, Lexington,
Virginia

1913-L—T. R. Bandy, Box 86, Kingsport, Tennessee

1914-A—Paul J. B. Murphy, “Kolosandra,” 304 College Cir-
cle, Staunton, Virginia

1914-L—John L. Hughes, Box 32, Benton Arkansas

1915-A—W. W. Cash, Jr., Cashmary Farm, Eagle Rock
(Botetourt County), Virginia

1915-L—Wilbur C. Hall, Leesburg, Virginia

1916-A—Russell S. Rhodes, 23 FE. Third Street, Tulsa, Okla.

1916-L—T. A. Myles, Box 126, Fayetteville, West Virginia

1917-A—Raymond L. Cundiff, 409 West Seventh Street,
Owensboro, Kentucky

1917-L—Robert R. Kane, Boyce, Virginia

1918 —Allein Beall, Jr., P. O. Box 467, Helena, Arkansas

1919 —W. F. Barron, Rome Coca-Cola Bottling Co.,
Box 671, Rome, Georgia

_ 1920-A—Randolph M. Cabell, Box 837, Waynesboro, Va.

1920-L—John W. Drye, Jr., 350 Park Avenue, New York
22, New York

1921-A—William J. Rushton, Protective Life Insurance Co.,
P.O. Box 2571, Birmingham, Alabama

1921-L—Fred C. Parks, P. O. Box 135, Abingdon, Virginia

1922-A—L. Waters Milbourne, 603 Somerset Road, Balti-
more 10, Maryland

1922-L—R. Bleakley James, 132 Alleghany, Clifton Forge,
Virgina

1923-A—Herbert L. Elias, 199 DeMott Avenue, Rockville
Centre, New York

1923-L—Emmett W. Poindexter, Riggs, Ferris & Greer,
Room 1201, 74 Trinity Place, New York 6, N. Y.

1924-A—Albert M. Pickus, 2424 Main Street, Stratford,
Connecticut

1924-L—J. Hampton Price, Box 466, Leaksville, N. C.

1925-A—John T. McVay, 1404 Washington Boulevard,
Huntington 1, West Virginia

1925-L—Perry A. Norman, Western Union Telegraph Co.,
1416 Commerce Street, Dallas, Texas

1926-A—Rufus A. Fulton, 155 River Drive, Lancaster, Pa.

1926-L—E. G. Hundley, c/o U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co.,
Baltimore 3, Maryland

1927-A—Allen Harris, Jr. P. O. Box 300, Johnson City,
Tennessee

1927-L—John O. Strickler, 115 West Kirk Avenue, Roanoke,
Virginia

1928-A—F. W. Sherrill, P. O. Box 1551, Pensacola, Floridy

1928-L—T. B. Bryant, Jr., P. O. Box 265, Orangeburg, South
Carolina

1929-A—Hayward F. Day, 144 Rockview Avenue, N. Plain-
field, New Jersey

1929-L—Samuel C. Strite, 122 W. Washington St., Hagers-
town, Maryland

1930-A—John P. Lynch, 118 Paxton Road, Richmond 26,
Virginia

1930-L—N. Dawson Hall, 1415 Hamilton Bank Building,
Chattanooga, Tennessee

1931-A—James L. Rimler, 20 North Court Street, Frederick,
Maryland

1931-L—Manuel M. Weinberg, 106 North Court Street,
Frederick, Maryland

1932-A—Charles E. Long, Jr., 4939 Brookview Drive, Dallas

2809 Blaine Drive,

20, Texas

1932-L—Charles A. Wood, Jr., Box 484, Charleston 22, West
Virginia

1933-A—Edward H. Bacon, 6 Picardy Lane, St. Louis 24,
Missouri

1933-L—Bernard B. Davis, Box 367, Shelbyville, Kentucky

1934-A—Claude Harrison, Jr., State and City Building,
Roanoke, Virginia

1934-L—Thomas D. Anderson, P. O. Box 2558, Houston 1,
Texas

1935-A—Charles C. Smith, P.O. Box 53, Jacksonville, Fla.

1935-L—Thomas E. Sparks, P. O. Box 547, Fordyce, Ark.

1936-A—W. B. Hoofstitler, 3627 Northaven Road, Dallas 29,
Texas

1936-L—John H. Thomas, 1723 Louden Heights
Charleston 4, West Virginia

Road,

1937-A—William D. Fishback, R. R. 3, Versailles, Kentucky

1937-L—Edwin M. Marks, c/o Goldsmith’s, 123-137 S. Main
Street, Memphis, Tennessee

1938-A—Gerald M. Lively, 3125 Broadway, Kansas City 11,
Missouri ;

1938-L—C. William Karraker, Jr., P. O. Box 5, Redding
Ridge, Connecticut ;

1939-A—Thomas W. Moses, 1220 Speedway Avenue, Indian-
apolis 7, Indiana

1939-L—John D. Goodin, P. O. Box 457, Johnson City,
‘Tennessee

1940-A—Brent H. Farber, Jr., 2100 N. Monroe Street, Balti-
more 17, Maryland

1940-L—O. B. McEwan, P. O. Box 753, Orlando, Florida

1941-A—Emil C. Rassman, 417 Midland Tower, Midland,

Texas
1941-L—Charles F. Heiner, 112 Lake Lane, Richmond 29,
Virginia
1h P. Didier, 205 W. Broadway, Maumee,
i0

1942-L—Elliot W. Butts, 4312 Pawnee Street, Jacksonville,
10, Florida

1943 —C. B. Myers, 130 Central Avenue, Lake Wales, Fla.

1944 —James P. Gilman, Box 41, Rt. 2, Salisbury, North
Carolina

1945 Edward B. Addison, 3099 East Pine Valley Road,
N.W., Atlanta 5, Georgia

1946 —Robert W. H. Mish, Jr., Box 887, Lexington, Va.

1947 —John A. McWhorter, Jr., 1620 Eye Street, N.W.,

Washington 6, D. C.

1948-A—-Lewis H. McKenzie, P. O. Box 510, Montezuma,
Georgia

1948-L—Carter R. .Allen, P. O. Drawer 219, Waynesboro, Va.

1949-A—Mark W. Saurs, 1900 Parma Road, Richmond, Va.

1949-L—Jack B. Porterfield, Jr., 817 Frank Nelson Building,
Birmingham, Alabama

1950-A—Bruce S. Parkinson, 117 Hillside Road, Strafford,
Wayne, Pennsylvania

1950-L—Rufus B. Hailey, Airport Road, Gatlinburg, Tenn.

1951-A—W. Upton Beall, 217 Professional Bldg., Tyler,
Texas

1951-L—E. McGruder Faris, Jr., Box 6091, Wake Forest
Law School, Winston-Salem, North Carolina

1952-A—Roland E. Thompson, 4915 Longfellow Court, Mc-
Lean, Virginia

1952-L—James C. Turk, P. O. Box 1089, Radford, Virginia

1953-A—Leonard B. Ransom, Jr., 1711 Lakeside Avenue, Bal-
timore 18, Maryland

1953-L—Robert Lee Banse, 116 W. Evergreen Avenue,
Chestnut Hills, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

1954-A—Norman L. Dobyns, 7202 Leesville Blvd., Spring-
field, Virginia

1954-L—J. P. Kilgore, Box 276, Amherst, Virginia

1955-A—J. Hardin Marion, III, 1004 Dartmouth Road, Balti-
more 12, Maryland

1955-L—John F. Kay, Jr., 1300 Travelers Bldg., Richmond,
Virginia

1956-A—Geoffrey T. Armbrister, 210 West Street, Mama-
roneck, New York

1956-L—Beverly G. Stephenson, Creek Drive,
Annandale, Virginia

1957-A—John J. Fox, Jr., 500 Tuckahoe Blvd., Richmond,
Virginia

1957-L—Douglas K. Frith, 10 North Bridge Street, Martins-
ville, Virginia

1958-A—Thomas B. Branch, III, 1045 Hurt Building, At-
lanta 3, Georgia

1958-L—Robert G. McCullough, 1200 American Trust Build-
ing, Nashville, Tennessee

1959-A—C. DuBose Ausley, 1410 Betton Road, Tallahassee,
Florida

1959-L—Owen A. Neff, 3406 Martha Custis Drive, Alexan-
dria, Virginia

1960-A—A. Prescott Rowe, 7-A Davidson Park, Lexington,
Virginia ;

1960-L—Isaac Noyes Smith, Jr., Kanawha Banking & Trust
Co., Charleston 22, West Virginia -

1961-A—Robert J. Funkhouser, Jr., The Collegiate Schools,
North Mooreland Road, Richmond, Virginia

1961-L—Paul H. Coffey, Jr., First National Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia

1105 Mill

THE

ASHINGTON

AND Lee

Editor

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

THE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President
BERNARD LEVIN, 1942

Vice-President
RopNEY M. Cook, 1946

Secretary
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

Treasurer
Joun D. BATTLe, Jr., M.D., 1934

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Joun D. BATTLE, JR., M.D., 1934
ANDREW H. BAUwrR, JR., 1937
THOMAS B. BRYANT, JR., 1928
RODNEY M. Cook, 1946

E. STEWART EPLEY, 1949
BERNARD LEVIN, 1942, President
JAmMEs B. MARTIN, 1931

C. WIiLtiAM Pacy, II, 1950

E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938
PauL M. SHUFORD, 1943

CLARK B. WINTER, 1937
WILLIAM B. WIspoM, 1921

EDITORIAL BOARD

FRANK J. GILLIAM, 1917
FITZGERALD FLOURNOY, 1921
PAXTON DAVIS

JAMES W. WHITEHEAD
RopNEY M. Cook, 1946
W. C. WASHBURN, 1940

December, 1961
Volume XXXVI

Number 4

THE COVER: Quarterback Steve Suttle gees air-
borne as Emory and Henry tacklers close in. This
exciting shot was taken by Roanoke Vimes photog-
rapher Oakie Asbury, and appears with the ‘Vimes’

permission.

 

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

Published quarterly by Alumni, Incor-
porated, Washington and Lee University,

Lexington, Virginia.

Entered as Second Class Matter at _the
Post Office at Lexington, Virginia, Sep-
tember 15, 1924. Printed at the Journalism
Laboratory Press of Washington and Lee

University under the supervision of
Harold Lauck.

FALL 1961

 

CONTENTS

The Generals Win ‘Them All 3
A Sport For Gentlemen 8
A Message From the Fund Chairman 14
‘The Honor System—Ours [To eee 15
News of the University 18
Homecoming and Opening Dances 23
ROTC Starts Eleventh Year 24
You're In the Cards! 20
Men Behind the Scenes 27
Class Notes 28-29
In Memoriam 39
Chapter Meetings 41

1

 

Opposite: Silhouetted
against a late autumn
sky, CoAcH LEE Mc-
LAUGHLIN watches the
practice of a team that
would bring Washing-
ton and Lee its first
perfect football season
in 47 years.

 

The Generals Win Them All
—and Many Friends

N A MARCH AFTERNOON back in 1957, Lee Mc-

Laughlin stood in what was then Washington
Chapel and met, for the first time, the “football team’
that he was to head up as the Generals’ new football
coach. Among the two dozen or so students present
there were, in fact, some boys who would play football
for Coach McLaughlin. But there were just as many
who were there only out of curiosity: they wanted to
see what manner of man was interested in taking over
a team that had not succeeded under a program many
said could never succeed.

All of them heard from the new coach some words
that must have had a strange, unrealistic ring to them.
Said McLaughlin, “We’re going to think in terms of
winning them all.” And said McLaughlin, “I believe
in letting everyone play. If you come out for football
for me, you'll play for me.”

At that time, Washington and Lee had won only
one game in fifteen contests, and if any solution was
to be suggested, it might very well involve finding

FALL 1961

Experience, Depth, Superior
Coaching Culminate in a Season
‘That Attracts National Acclaim

the eleven best players in the school, making sixty-
minute men out of them, and hoping for the best.

‘Today, five football seasons later, those remarks
by Lee McLaughlin constitute accurate descriptions
of Washington and Lee’s football program, rather
than the wishful thinking of a successful prep school
coach making his first plunge into the perilous col-
legiate coaching profession. Not only do the Generals
now think in terms of winning them all, but they have
indeed won them all for 1961—the first all-winning
season since the glorious time of Cy Young and the
1914 undefeated team. Not only does McLaughlin
promise Saturday afternoon action for all his players,
but he gives it to them, and this, as much as anything,
has brought victory to the Generals time after time
through 1960 and 1961.

Because he let many freshmen and sophomores
play back in the lean years that followed in 1957 and
1958, he was able to develop over the seasons a strong,
deep squad of many boys of nearly equal football

3

ability. As these youngsters grew to
football maturity under the expert
coaching of McLaughlin and _ his
staff, there developed in them a
team spirit and loyalty that has
amazed even their coach. And with
the surge of team spirit and pride
there came the inevitable victories,
starting in 1959 when the record
was a prophetic three wins, four
losses, and one tie.

One of those three wins came in
the last game of the season at
Washington University in _ St.
Louis. As it was to do so many
times in the future, the Generals’
three-team depth had brought them
from behind to win, 35-26, in a
last-quarter surge. Perhaps the boys
themselves sensed it, but few knew
then that that game was the begin-
ning of an unbeaten string of con-
tests that is still intact, nineteen
games later.

In 1960, the Generals were 8-0-1,
with only an 8-8 tie at mid-season
against Johns Hopkins marring the
record. This year there was no tie
game to spoil the final-season mem-
ories of 18 seniors, most of whom
had suffered with McLaughlin
through the 1-7 record in 1958. It
was a tremendous season, in so
many ways.

Now that the perfect year is a
fact, McLaughlin admits that he
felt it coming back in early Sep-
tember.

“It had to come this year if it
were to come at all,’ he declares.
“This was a peak year for us. I
doubt if we'll ever again have such
a combination of experience,
depth, and bright young sopho-
mores. As it turned out, it was a
perfect combination.”

It was indeed. The seniors pro-
vided the seasoned stability and
leadership, while the — talented
juniors and sophomores in_ their
eagerness kept sufhcient pressure
on the veterans to assure that no
letdown or “‘senioritis’” would
threaten the team’s chances for the
banner year it deserved.

4

There were outstanding  indi-
vidual stars—like Little All-Amer-
ican center Terry Fohs and All-Vir-
ginia Small College quarterback
Steve Suttle—but by and large the
victories came because McLaugh-
lin commanded a varsity squad of
50 boys—all eager to play. The
standard strategy was to alternate
three complete units on a nearly
equal basis of playing time, wearing
down the opposition, taking advan-
tage of mistakes and breaks, play-
ing rugged defense. The tactics
would vary from game to game, like
in the opening encounter with
Hampden-Sydney when the Gold,
or third unit, proved to be the
stingiest on defense and played
most of the second half. Or the
Franklin & Marshall game when
the Red, or second team, proved
an explosive scoring threat, or the
Emory & Henry and Washington
games when the Blue, or first unit,
was called on for service above and
beyond the usual expectations.

But behind it all was the team’s
pride, its mutual self-respect among
its members, and its confidence in
itself that it could face week after
week fired-up teams that would
boast of a successful season if only
the Generals could be upset.

Hampden-Sydney provided the
closest game from a scorimg stand-
point, although other games would

CoAacH MCLAUGHLIN doesn’t look it, but believe it or not, W&L is winning.

present greater challenges and
evoke better performances. Against
the Tigers, the Generals had to
come from behind with a_ cliff-
hanging third quarter drive that
netted their only touchdown and a
narrow 7-6 victory. After an open
date, the wars resumed and Frank-
lin & Marshall, Randolph-Macon,
and Johns Hopkins fell in domino
order, 40-0, 43-0, and 38-6, setting
the stage for a showdown battle
with Emory and Henry for the
state’s small college title.

The Wilson Field clash with the
Wasps proved to be the best foot-
ball game played there since the
Generals beat Virginia in the final
home game of the 1953 season. The
opportunist Washington and Lee
squad turned a Wasp fumble into
one touchdown, a blocked punt in-
to another, and led, 14-6, at half-
time. In the second half, the Gen-
erals’ depth again paid off, Emory
and Henry wearied in the stretch,
and the Red and Blue teams
marched for a touchdown apiece
and a final score of 27-6.

The Generals took a_ physical
pounding in the Emory game, so
the rest the first two units got in
the following game with Centre
was welcome. The score was 53-0.

The next week, unbeaten but
once-tied Sewanee admittedly
sought revenge for the previous

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Tense Moments

A dressing room before the game is a tense place.
The quick suit up rapidly, then stretch out on the
floor in an effort to relax while their sober companions
pull on their pads and check equipment. Assistant
Coach Boyd Williams gives last-minute advice to
Quarterback Steve Suttle, while Halfback Jim Russ
gets a final check of an injured elbow by Trainer Nor-
ris Eastman. Assistant Coach Buck Leslie, whose scout-
ing report dictated the strategy for the game, sits

quietly and wonders if he has been correct in his
recommendations.

 

FALL 1961 5

year’s 32-8 lacing, and the Tigers
fought like their namesakes for
four quarters before bowing, 26-8.
It was only 3-0 at halftime in a
contest of determined, poised op-
ponents, representing the very best
in small college football.

After a ragged, penalty-marred
30-0 win over Frederick College,
Virginia’s newest four-year college
with football ambitions, the Gen-
erals headed west for St. Louis and
their quest for victory No. 9 that
would bring the perfect season.
They nearly didn’t make it in time
for the 10 a.m. Thanksgiving Day
kickoff.

Bad weather in St. Louis forced
the chartered DC-3’s to set down
in Evansville, Ind., and from
there—g p.m. Wednesday until 3
a.m. ‘Thursday—the team bounced
and lurched on a local Greyhound
across Indiana and Illinois, some
players and all the coaches standing
most of the way. It was a tired and
groggy squad that forced itself
awake four hours later to prepare
for the early-morning game.

There were still cobwebs in
their heads in the second quarter
when Washington, a team winless
in eight games against a tough
schedule, led the Generals, 13-0.
Although Halfback Charley Gum-
mey’s 50-yard touchdown run kept
the Generals close, they fell behind
again at 20-6 with less than a min-
ute and a half remaining before
intermission. Then came the play
that lifted the team by its shoelaces
and broke the Bears’ spirited surge.

On first down from the Generals’
20, Red unit quarterback Chuck
Lane called ‘‘the Boomer,” a pass
designed to put six points on the
scoreboard. Halfback Stuart Yoffe
ran his decoy pattern to perfection,
drawing in all four Bear secondary
defenders while senior halfback
Jim Hickey shot into the clear along
the right sideline. Lane’s pass was
on target, and Hickey, who holds

the school record of g.7 in the 100,

cleared the goal fully 25 yards
6

 

 

The Unbeaten
String of 19

1959

W&L 35—Washington

1960

W&L 21—Centre

W&L 23—Dickinson

W&L 38—F & M

W&L 26—Randolph-Macon
W&L 8—Johns Hopkins

26

CO

3
8

W&L 14—Hampden-Sydney 7

W&kL 6—Carnegie Tech
W&L 32—Sewanee
W&L 28—Washington

1961

WkL
W&L 4o—-F & M

W&L 43—Randolph-Macon
W&L 38—Johns Hopkins
W&L 27—Emory & Henry
W&L 53—Centre

W&L 26—Sewanee

W&L 30—Frederick

W&L 33—Washington

O
8

O

7—Hampden-Sydney 6

O

Se Oe SB

 

 

ahead of his pursuers. The Gen-
erals were down only 20-12 at the
half, and although the Bears hol-
lered and yelled when they came
back on the field, it was to be
W&L from then on.

With Suttle’s sure hand directing
the offense, the Generals took the
second-half kickoff and drove for
the tying touchdown and conver-
sion points. They had promising
drives slowed twice more in the
second half before Gummey again
took charge personally midway in
the final quarter with a 49-yard
scoring burst off right tackle. The
conversion try failed, and follow-
ing a good break on the kickoff,
the Bears had one effort left.

‘They drove to the W&L 27, but
the Generals stiffened and threw
the Bears back to the 34 where the
ball changed hands with only 54
seconds remaining to play. Suttle
elected to run out the clock on
quarterback sneaks, but on his first
try he nearly ran out of the ball
park. Suddenly in the clear, he
raced to the 18, from where the
Generals struck in three quick
plays for the final touchdown of a
glorious season. Senior halfback
Jim Russ, who scored the first
points of the year against Hamp-
den-Sydney, added the 297th on a
perfect placement and the Generals
had, indeed, won them all.

Because of its successes in the
1961 campaign, but more because
of the rags to riches story of Coach
McLaughlin’s patient labors, the
team attracted the attention of
Sports Illustrated magazine, per-
haps the most highly-regarded
sports publication in the country.
Walter Bingham, one of the maga-
zine’s most gifted reporters and
writers, came to Lexington on the
story. What he saw prompted him
to write an article which Sports
Illustrated used as its six-page lead
story the following week. The ar-
ticle is re-printed in this issue of
the Alumni Magazine for the bene-
fit of those who may have missed

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

CHARLIE GUMMEY gains against R-MC.

it in its original form.

What impressed Walter Bingham
about the Generals was not so
much their ability to play football,
but their general attitude and de-
meanor, both on the field and off.
He spent many hours chatting with
members of the team and other stu-
dents, and what he observed and
what he heard prompted him to
entitle his story, “A Sport for
Gentlemen.”

‘The appearance of the article in
mid-season made the Generals all
the more prime targets for upset-
minded opponents and, on occa-
sion, their role as gentlemen was
staunchly tested.

Just as there have been great
teams in Washington and Lee’s
past, there will be other great
teams in the future. But somehow,
particularly for those who saw its
struggled beginnings in 1958 and
1959, the 1961 squad has earned
a special place in Washington and
Lee athletic history and tradition.

As good as it was at its own
level of competition, no one will
try to equate it with the 1914 team
or the 1950 team in football ability.
Yet, in its own way, it ranks with
the very finest that the University
has ever produced.

Each player dedicated himself
completely to the game, yet this
total commitment never caused any
of them to lose sight of the fact
that football, after all, is a game
and should be played for the fun
of it.

FALL 1961

It was a team that was proud to
represent Washington and Lee. It
was a team that often unsettled its
opponents by singing the Swing in
the dressing room before taking the
field before the game or at half-
time.

When Coach McLaughlin hand-
shook his way through well-wishers
after the final game and entered
the team dressing room, he didn’t
find a joyous madhouse of exultant
victors. He found every member of
the squad, down on one knee, in
silent prayer of gratitude for the
good victory, for the good season.

It was that kind of team, a team
that all W&L men can be proud of.

Winter Schedules

BASKETBALL
Dec. 1—At Virginia
Dec. 4—Bridgewater
Dec. 8—Catholic
Dec. 11—At Emory & Henry

~ Dec. 15—Franklin and Marshall

Jan. 6—Lynchburg

Jan. g—At Hampden-Sydney

Jan. 13—Randolph-Macon

Jan. 17—At Bridgewater

Jan. 20—Norfolk William and Mary
Feb. 10—Hampden-Sydney

Feb. 14—Roanoke

Feb. 16—At Catholic

Feb. 17—At Washington (Md.)

Feb. 22—At Randolph-Macon

Feb. 24—Emory & Henry

Feb. 26—At Norfolk William and Mary

WRESTLING
Dec. 1—North Carolina
Dec. g—Franklin and Marshall
Dec. 15—At Chattanooga ‘Tournament
Jan. 6—Gallaudet
Jan. 13—At North Carolina State
Jan. 20—Norfolk William and Mary
Feb. 10—At Duke
Feb. 14—At Hampden-Sydney
Feb. 17—West Virginia
Feb. 26—At Virginia

SWIMMING
Dec. 1—Roanoke
Dec. 5—At Virginia
Dec. 8—At Norfolk William and Mary
Dec. g—At William and Mary
Dec. 15—American
Jan. 13—Georgetown
Feb. 12—At Maryland
Feb. 13—At Catholic
Feb. 16—Pittsburgh
Feb. 19—East Carolina
Feb. 24—Wake Forest

 

m REPRINTED on the following pages
is the article which appeared in
the November 6 issue of Sports
Illustrated Magazine. The editors
of Sports Illustrated granted special
permission to the Alumni Magazine
to reproduce these pages exactly
as they appeared in the nationally-
circulated publication. Because of
the reproduction process involved,

photographs in the reprinted pages
are not of the same high quality
they were in the original publica-
tion. The Alumni Magazine is in-
debted to Sports Illustrated for its
permission to bring this story to
the attention of Washington and
Lee alumni who may not have had
the opportunity to read and enjoy
1t.

ips
eee ee
ine ee He

3 ee
iy fas Pee ee
Ra 5 : PrP Re aH Ree ee
OR i ees Peete

 

> 0 on £ 8
aq 5-2 ee. &
See
Oo. 8 Boo 8
ax g Bo gs
oO % @» BP «sx
ome &
ao - 5S &
ul = S
rF #s 3 Ff &
~~ if 2 TB 8
Mo ee GS
vo oO RY
=> 5s 03
- 2 oe
Lil i:
wo etd
i -
O
o =
null c 2 &
GS. 69.5
© 6 £
oS fo *
c
2 _f Ba i
, =
a3 12.
w st ¢
”° D
() ~ Od W
tei Lil —
—_—
Om é
nS ©
fe)
(

MAGAZINE

THE ALUMNI

 

FALL 1961

tanding shoulder to shoulder with the undefeated foot-
ball teams of the nation—Michigan State, Alabama,
Texas, Mississippi, Colorado and Ohio State—is Washington
and Lee, which last Saturday won its fifth game of the season
by beating Emory and Henry 27-6. While naturally proud of
its record, students at Washington and Lee are quick—even
happy—to admit that their team is not in the same class with
those other undefeated teams. At Washington and Lee foot-
ball is strictly amateur. No athletic scholarships are given,
nor have any been given for the past seven years, a decision
which at the time it was taken brought screams of protest
from ardent alumni. But this year’s team, made up purely of
students who play football rather than football players who
study, is proving that winning football on an unsubsidized
basis can be as much fun to play and as exciting to watch
as any football anywhere. -

Washington and Lee, of course, is not the only college to
have abandoned big-time football. The University of Chi-
cago, in perhaps the most famous instance of de-emphasis,
dropped football completely in 1940 after 44 years in the
Big Ten. Carnegie Tech, a football power of the ’20s, toned
down its schedule in 1936, just as Johns Hopkins (SI, Dec. 5)
had done the year before. Santa Clara, which twice played
in the Sugar Bowl and once in the Orange, withdrew from
national competition in 1952, although it has been creep-
ing back quietly during the past two years. Of all the schools
that have in varying degrees de-emphasized their football
programs and kept them that way, Washington and Lee,
which has not lost a game since 1959, has been the most
successful.

Washington and Lee University is located in Lexington,
Virginia, deep in Civil War country, a school of red brick
buildings fronted by white columns. The grounds are hilly and
crowded with giant elms. Reminders of the Civil War and its
Southern heroes are everywhere. Robert E. Lee is buried on
campus. Stonewall Jackson lies not far away in the Stonewall
Jackson Memorial Cemetery. There is a Robert E. Lee Hotel,
a Robert E. Lee Church and a Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

continued

 

10

GENTLEMEN’S SPORT continued

No university office is considered prop-
erly furnished without a portrait of Lee.

Washington and Lee is a gentleman’s
university. Coats and ties must be worn
in class. When one student passes an-
other on campus, it is customary for
both to say hello. The honor system pre-
vails, and violators are disciplined by
the students themselves.

It was partly to preserve this reputa-
tion that the university decided in 1954
to secede from big-time football. The
1950 team had been a powerhouse, win-
ning eight of its 10 games, being ranked
15th in the country and going to the
Gator Bowl. To maintain its eminence
in competition with larger schools like
Tennessee, Maryland, Navy and Ala-
bama, Washington and Lee had offered
athletic scholarships to boys who, in the

NEAR WASHINGTON AND LEE’S INFORMAL

BENCH YOUNG BOYS WATCH GAME

words of one university professor, ‘‘were
not Washington and Lee types.”

When the football teams of the next
three years did poorly, causing alumni
to press for even more athletic scholar-
ships, the time for a policy decision was
at hand. The football program was cost-
ing the university a great deal of money.
The football players, on the whole, were
proving scholastically inferior. Still, it
is possible that the Board of Trustees
might have yielded to the pressure of
the alumni had not a. large portion of
the football team been caught cheating
during the final exams of 1954. Some-
how they had made duplicate keys to
rooms where exams were kept and had
bought off the janitor. Those caught
were expelled immediately, but the feel-
ing still exists that many more violators
graduated before an investigation could
be carried out.

A month later the Board of Trustees
announced that Washington and Lee
would award no more athletic scholar-
ships and that the football schedule for
that fall would be canceled. When the
university resumed varsity football the
next season, 1955, it was against teams
like Sewanee, Centre and Hampden-
Sydney.

It was a lean season. The team lost
all its games and scored only four touch-
downs. In one game it gained only three
yards. “‘No one covered our games,”
says Frank Parsons, the university’s
sports publicity man. ‘‘It was lonely in
the press box. Just the P.A. announcer,
a Statistician and me.”

It was lonely in the stands, too. What
few people would come to watch a game
usually left at half time for the warmth
of the fraternity house and the big game
on national television. ‘‘It took guts to

CUTTING SHARPLY TO HIS RIGHT, WASHINGTON

Dees
poe

Eee

Pee

Re
HO aee
se

ete

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

watch our games,” says one professor.

Not many boys turned out for foot-
ball that first season of unsubsidized
football. During practice one afternoon
Boyd Williams, an assistant coach, told
all the ends to follow him down to a
corner of the field. Williams trotted to
the appointed spot and when he turned
around found that he was being fol-
lowed by only one man.

The pressure to return to big-time
football increased after the winless 1955
season. Campus polls favored it. ‘‘The
students were embarrassed to have
schools like Hampden-Sydney as op-
ponents,” says one faculty member.

One professor took his daughter to
a dentist on a Saturday in 1955. ‘‘His
waiting room was crowded with chil-
dren,”’ he recalls, ‘‘but when he saw me
he took me aside and started arguing
that Washington and Lee just had to

return to big-time’ football. He got so
worked up over it I decided right then
not to let him work on my kid’s teeth
anymore.”

The weakest link

A local columnist urged the univer-
sity to give up football entirely. ‘If a
football team is to be a link between
a school and its alumni, it had better
be a stronger link than the 1955 Wash-
ington and Lee team.” Many influential
alumni, through the press, seconded the
motion. ‘‘They were like a bunch of
kids who had their little red wagon
taken away,” said a former player
recently.

After Washington and Lee won only
one game in 1956, Coach Bill Chipley
was fired. “It was a ticklish situation,”
says one faculty member. ‘‘It didn’t look
too good, firing the coach just after we

had de-emphasized.” The official state«
ment released by the university ex-
plained that Chipley had been let go
because he was not ‘‘a good teacher of
football.”

In his place the university hired Lee
McLaughlin, a solidly built man in his
late 30s with a grin as wide as his shoul-
ders. When he held his first football
meeting, less than 20 boys showed up.
“It had become fashionable not to play
football,” says Frank Parsons. ‘‘Boys
used to say, ‘I was great in prep school,
but I wouldn’t play here.’ ”’

**People used to come up to me and
say, ‘Isn’t it a shame that so-and-so
hasn’t come out for football,’? Mc-
Laughlin says. ‘“‘I’d tell them maybe,
but I don’t think so-and-so could make
our team. I knew we couldn’t get any-
where until we stopped making heroes

out of boys who didn’t want to play.”
continued

AND LEE FULLBACK TOMMY KEESEE (32) GAINS YARDAGE THROUGH BIG HOLE IN EMORY AND HENRY LINE. W. & L. WON 27 TO 6

 

GENTLEMEN'S SPORT continued

McLaughlin traveled about looking
for football players, although he could
not, of course, offer anything more than
a good education. He covered New Eng-
land, concentrating .on Connecticut.
‘““Many of our boys come from prep
schools,’ he says. “‘You can’t throw a
rock in Connecticut without hitting a
prep school.’”’ McLaughlin used to get
depressed when prospective Washington
and Lee football players were lured
away by athletic scholarships. ‘‘I’ve
gotten used to it now,” he says. ‘‘Re-
cruiting is like selling insurance. If you
see a thousand boys, maybe you get 10.”

What Washington and Lee liked best
about Lee McLaughlin is the way he ac-
cepted the de-emphasized football pro-
gram. He held a spring practice, but it
was only for two weeks in February so
that the boys were free to go out for
spring sports. Daily workouts in the fall
were only an hour and a half, and if a
boy could not make practice because of
studies, McLaughlin understood. In fact,
several times he ordered boys not to show
up for practice because he knew they had
important tests coming up. He held a
weekly skull session, an hour every Mon-
day night. If the session ran past the
hour, McLaughlin told his boys that
they were free to leave. |

McLaughlin’s first two seasons were
no better than Chipley’s, but in that
second year many of the boys who form
the foundation of this year’s fine team
arrived on the Washington and Lee cam-
pus. One was Terry Fohs, the 145-
pound linebacker who consistently
leads the team in tackles. ‘‘One of the
reasons I came to Washington and Lee
is that I knew I could make the team,”
he says.

Quarterback Steve Suttle had no in-
tention of playing college football. Mc-
Laughlin invited him out to watch a
practice session one day. ‘‘When I saw
that the players weren’t a bunch of
goons,” says Suttle, “I changed my

 

SMILING COACH McLAUGHLIN PATS W.& L. TACKLE AFTER EMORY AND HENRY GAME

mind.” Suttle also went back to his
dormitory and talked his friend Ned
Hobbs into trying out. Hobbs became
the right end and is now a captain of
the team. Jerry Hyatt had never played
football before he entered Washington
and Lee, because his high school in
Maryland had no team. Hyatt tried out
anyway, made the team and is now an
outstanding center.

In 1959 the team won three games,
one more than it had won the previous
four seasons. And last year Washington
and Lee was undefeated, being tied only
by Johns Hopkins. With each victory the
howls of the alumni to return to big-time
football diminished and interest in the

COMFORT IN DEFEAT comes to Cap-
tain McHorris of Emory and Henry.

team grew. Once again people showed

up to watch Washington and Lee play

football, and if most of them still left

at half time occasionally it was because |
the team was winning by such big scores,

not losing.

This year’s team, after barely winning
its first game against Hampden-Sydney
7-6, has scored 148 points in its next
four games to its opponents’ 12. There
have been no outstanding stars, although
Fohs, the little linebacker, has again led
the defense. A dozen players have scored
touchdowns for Washington and Lee. In
last week’s victory over Emory and Hen-
ry, for instance, the four touchdowns
were made by four different men. Coach
McLaughlin generally uses most of his
50-odd players, not because he is kind
but because the talent is evenly distrib-
uted. Washington and Lee uses a run-
ning game, passing only when necessary.
““When you pass,” says McLaughlin,
*“‘three things can happen and only one
of them is good.”

The resurgence of football at Wash-
ington and Lee has created a new worry
among university officials. At the close
of last season there were a few moments
when it looked as if the school might lose
McLaughlin. Virginia was looking for a
new football coach and McLaughlin
had graduated from there in 1941. But
McLaughlin, if he got an offer, turned
it down and now says he has no intention
of ever leaving.

‘‘T have the best coaching job in the
world,” he says. ‘‘I have the rank of as-
sociate professor, tenure and extra bene-
fits. This is a nice town, a fine place to
live. And I work with nice boys.”

McLaughlin recently gave a small par-
ty for some of the faculty. One of the
guests was Dana Swan, a young man
who in his first season as coach of the
freshman team has had the unhappy
experience of watching his team lose
every game. In fact, the team has yet to
score a touchdown.

As the guests were leaving, McLaugh-

_ jin came over smilingly to Swan’s young

wife. ‘‘You’ve probably heard already,”
he said, ““but in case you haven’t, your
husband is doing a fine job.” At Wash-
ington and Lee, even the football coach
is a gentleman. END

Turn page for story on a less happy

facet of the 1961 football season

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED NOVEMBER 6, 1961

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

FALL 1961

NS

—

as

Nae
SASS

i me Sau
NNN
ee
eee

 

In recent session in Lexington, the Alumni Fund Council is shown above. Clockwise from

the foreground are WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, J. FRED Cook, ’33, FRANK H. CALLAHAM,

Jr., 52, M. W. PAXTON, JR., 47, FRANK L. SUMMERS, ’52, DONALD M. FERGUSSON, ‘51,
and ROBERT M. KIMé, ’51.

What Does Your University’s
Future Mean to You?

By M. W. Paxton, JR., Chairman
The Alumni Fund Council

Y THE TIME this issue of the
Alumni Magazine reaches you,
I hope you will have read thought-
fully the message of the Alumni
Fund Council mailed to you in
connection with the opening ap-
peal of the 1961-62 Alumni Fund
Campaign.
You'll recall that it urged some
“tough-minded thinking about a
sound investment.”

I hope you have found the time
during a busy season to reflect in
an objective way about what your
support of the Alumni Fund means
to Washington and Lee and to you
as an alumnus.

This current Fund effort is per-
haps the most important ever un-
dertaken by your Alumni Fund
Council. For three years, many of
us worked for and contributed to
the University Development Pro-
gram. The success of this program
was of paramount importance to

14

Washington and Lee, and our
alumni did a good job in assuring
this success. But, now, it is equally
important that we reestablish and
improve the pattern of annual giv-
ing which we demonstrated so ef-
fectively four, five, and six years
ago. -There is, indeed, a: lot of
catching-up to be done. How well
we catch up this year will be the
key to future succcesses of the
Alumni Fund.

As you know, the gifts received
through the Alumni Fund make up
what we often hear called “bread
and butter” money for the Univer-
sity. ‘his means the University
uses this income to meet current
operating expenses, like the merit
salary increases for the nearly 100
fulltime professors, or for an im-
portant piece of equipment in one
of the science departments, or for
expanding the book budget of Mc-
Cormick Library, or for any of
dozens of improvements that will

 

Chairman PAXTON

make Washington and Lee a better
University for educating today’s
young men.

But over and above the direct
financial benefits to the University
which the Fund provides, there is
another enrichment which is hard-
er to evaluate or translate into dol-
lars and cents. ‘This is the demon-
stration of faith in the University
by its alumni, who, through their
annual giving, testify that Wash-
ington and Lee has had an influ-
ence for tremendous good on their
lives and that this has instilled in
them a loyalty and concern com-
mensurate with the University’s
continued well-being. me

If you haven’t gotten down to
that objective thinking we sug-
gested earlier, how about taking
the time right now to re-examine
this inescapable relationship be-
tween you and your University.

As we wrote you before, this ap-
peal for your support is fundamen-
tally for an investment in the fu-
ture strength of your Alma Mater.
Again, your response will be more
meaningful to you and this Uni-
versity if it is motivated by some
tough thinking about the values
represented by Wasington and Lee
which seem significant to you.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Honor System—

An Alumnus Looks

At the Honor System
With Keen Insight and
Offers a Challenge

To ‘Today’s Students

 

Dr. COULLING

FALL 1961

— Ours To Preserve

Dr. SipNEY M. B. CouLtine, ’46
Assistant Professor of English

F EVERYONE WHO KNOws Washington and Lee well

were asked to select the single most valuable asset
of the University, I have little doubt that the choice
would be almost unanimous—our honor system.

From time to time, I know, there has been vigorous
competition from other quarters: a Gator Bowl foot-
ball team, a sensationally successful group on the
Quiz Bowl, an historian of international fame, a new
endowment enthusiastically applauded by educators
throughout the country. But year in and year out it
has been the honor system, more than anything else,
that has placed Washington and Lee in its distin-
guished position in American education.

It is the honor system that has made possible
much of the characteristic life of the college com-
munity, from unproctored examinations to the
unquestioning acceptance of student checks.

It is the honor system that has helped to create
an environment in which serious intellectual pur-
suits are possible and in which excellence is re-
spected. And, as I learned once again last sum-
mer when I was among Washington and Lee’s
representatives at a conference in Colorado
Springs, it is the honor system that attracts more
praise and more interest, among students and
educators from New England to California, than
anything else that can be mentioned about the
University. |

Don’t Forget ‘Why’ of Honor System

This is so because, of all we can boast of here, our
genuinely effective honor system is the one thing
that is shared by only a handful of institutions in the
nation.

All of this seems so obvious that it hardly needs to
be said. And yet in recent years I have increasingly
sensed that we do not sufficiently appreciate the true

 

(Reprinted from ‘THE RING-TUM PHI)

15

 

<. . a very practical system of assuring that

honorable behavior shall be the rule of life here.”

importance of the honor system. Even with the scan-
dal of the early fifties only a decade behind us we are
prone to regard the honor system with complacency,
to accept it as the natural course of things, to con-
sider it simply as something else here that is old and
traditional.

‘Too many of us, I am afraid, are either unaware or
forgetful of what exists where there is no honor sys-
tem, casually dismissing the matter with the tired wit-
ticism about the faculty with the honor and the stu-
dents with the system. We tend to think that inevi-
tably Washington and Lee will always have an honor
system, and that the loss or weakening of the honor
system “can never happen here.” Or, if I may judge
by the themes I read now and then, we are tempted
to speak of “the three great Washington and Lee
traditions—conventional dress, the speaking tradition,
and the honor system,” as if the student’s integrity is
on the same level of importance as his custom of wear-
ing a jacket and speaking to his friends.

If I regard our honor system as pre-eminently
important, the reason is that I have had first-
hand experience with the immense problems that
are created in institutions with inadequate honor
systems, or no honor system at all. My first teach-
ing assignment, for example, was at a large south-
ern university which had an honor system sup-
ported largely by elaborate rhetorical claims.

Once when I reported a student for submit-
ting an essay that he had copied from the New
York Herald Tribune I caused a stir which af-
fected the entire campus and lasted for weeks.
Although the penalty for such an offense—failure
in the course and expulsion for a semester—was
clearly and explicitly stated in a book of regula-
tions, the student and administrative authori-
ties sought every possible evasion.

No one seemed too remote from the case to help
decide it: no testimony was too irrelevant to include.
The student’s minister at home wrote to say that his
family were pillars of the church; his dormitory coun-
selor testified that he rarely kept late hours or created
disturbances; and some of his other professors said
that in class he seemed pleasant and attentive. Event-

16

ually I was notified by a dean that since most of the
evidence pointed to the conclusion that the accused
was really a prince of a fellow who had somehow mis-
taken an article in the Herald Tribune for one of his
own essays, I should forget the whole matter and per-
mit the student to write another paper.

Cheating Condoned Elsewhere

At a second institution where I taught there was not
even the pretense of an honor system, for the students
were so accomplished in deception that the faculty
and administration had long since abandoned any
serious attempt to deal with the problem. One of my
students, a third-string fullback who had made himself
valuable as the extra-point specialist, was so skillfully
assisted in his work that only late in the semester, and
then by accident, did I discover that in reality he was
scarcely literate. Another student was a cheater so
clumsy that he was repeating English 1 for the fourth
time, but he was beginning to learn. He came to class
one day to write an impromptu theme, pulled out an
old issue of The Readers Digest, and began copying
one of its articles of condensed but lasting interest.
When I challenged him he replied that he was merely
taking notes in preparation for the paper—the paper
he was supposed to be writing at that very moment!
Both of us knew this was an outrageous lie, but both
also knew that I was utterly powerless to do anything
about it. Had I tried to take the matter to the ad-
ministration I would have experienced the same
treatment which a colleague of mine received when
he attempted to press an honor case. He was accused
by his dean of being a trouble maker and was en-
couraged to seek a teaching position elsewhere.

However absurd such incidents may seem, how-
ever foreign they are to our experience at Washing-
ton and Lee, it is salutary to be reminded that such
things can and do happen every day on campuses
throughout the country. If we are to speak of the
honor system with something other than glibness and
complacency, we must always keep in mind what the
absence of an honor system can do: it can sap the vital-
ity of an institution; it can make a travesty of the
whole educational process; it can create an atmos-
phere of mutual hostility between faculty and students

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

éd

and demoralize everyone by establishing a mood of
cynicism and futility.

I have insisted on this point because I believe there
is danger in complacency. But there is a second
danger, I think, still more serious—the tendency, ap-
parently growing in recent years, to subject the honor
system to a scrutiny that obscures rather than illum-
inates. I do not mean that we should never examine
or discuss the honor system. Certainly the lively debate
of this past spring was a good and healthful sign. Nor
do I mean that the honor system is sacred or perfect,
that it should be immune from criticism.

If there are faults and weaknesses then by all means
they should be corrected. But there is a difference be-
tween an examination of the honor system that is use-
ful and an examination of it that is not, and it has
seemed to me that we have not always observed this
distinction.

What is Honor?

In the past few months, for example, I have heard
the complaint that in applying the honor system we
face a vast difficulty because of our inability to define
what we mean by honor. I hope that I am not being
semantically naive when I say that I cannot believe we
have any real difficulty here. I think that we know in
general what we mean by the word, and even if we
cannot adequately define it we at least know what
is not honest. We know that lying and stealing and
cheating are not honest, and we know what lying and
stealing and cheating are. The honor system was nev-
er intended to be the object of metaphysical or seman-
tic speculation. It is a very practical system of assur-
ing that honorable behavior shall be the rule of life
here, and to introduce into it questions which lie
outside its province is to weaken it without purpose.

A second kind of unhelpful criticism is the
demand to have the application of the honor
system described in the most minute details, to in-
dicate precisely the boundary between the area
where it applies and the area where it does not

apply.
We need, of course, to know where we stand, and
obviously we must state what offenses are punishable

ce

and what are not. But there is a danger in wishing to
be too specific. Just as the desire to know exactly what
pages of the text are included in the examination ma-
terial encourages one to study only what is absolute-
ly essential, so too does the insistence on minutely de-
scribing the application of the honor system encourage
one to avoid any unnecessary honesty. Again I hope
that I am not being naive when I say that I think we
know the area covered by the honor system. Its
strength, we are accustomed to repeating, lies in its not
being overworked, in its applying to a fairly restricted
and well-informed area. But this has always meant
that the honor system is strong because it has not at-
tempted to regulate social conduct. It has never meant
that the honor system is strong because it does not de-
mand too much honor of a student. It has never
meant that honor can be compartmentalized, that
stealing in a dormitory is forbidden but stealing in
a fraternity house is permissible. The word integrity
suggests, etymologically, wholeness. We cannot have
this “wholeness” if our concern is with discovering
what dishonorable deeds we can get by with rather
than with being honorable in all that we say and do.

Washington and Lee Supports Honor System

Whatever may have been the inadequacies of Wash-
ington and Lee students, they have at least made one
great and enduring contribution that is the bedrock
of everything else—they have developed, administer-
ed, supported, and maintained the honor system as a
vital force in the University.

If the present and future students wish to make
a contribution, they can make no more signif-
icant one than continuing the same tradition. But
one thing they may not do. They may not regard
the honor system as their exclusive possession. It
is not theirs alone; it belongs to every student who
through the years has faithfully helped establish
it as an integral part of our lives. For this rea-
son the enjoyment of it is not simply a right and
a. privilege, but a solemn responsibility.

As Ruskin said of the architecture of the past, the
honor system is not ours to do with as we please; it
is ours only to preserve.

.... ut belongs to every student who through the years has

faithfully helped established it as an integral part of our lives.”

FALL 1961

17

 

University News

Varsity Scholars Meet Tough
Opposition on TV College Bowl

m™ HEADLINING fall campus events
was the University’s opportunity to
participate in the General Electric
College Bowl program over CBS
network television.

Washington and Lee’s “varsity
scholars” appeared on the program
of November 12, and in what can
be described best as a tough break
in scheduling, they had to engage
a four-time winner of the contest,
Pomona College of Claremont,
Calif.

Under the rules of the program,
a team is permitted five victories
before it must retire as an “un-
defeated champion.” Pomona had
defeated Texas Christian Univer-
sity, Washington University of St.
Louis, Hood College, and Amherst
College before facing Washington
and Lee in its final test.

The Pomona team’s experience
and stage presence were the decid-

18

ing factors in its eventual victory
over Washington and Lee by a
score of 330 to 110.

Only five teams in the four-year
history of the television version of
the popular quiz program have re-
tired as unbeaten champs, and
members of the production staff of
the program said the Pomona team
was the sharpest ever to appear.

Although Washington and Lee’s
fine team was unable to upset the
champions, it was universally cred-
ited with having made a good ef-
fort. The Pomona captain paid
tribute to the Washington and Lee
men in accepting the champion-
ship bowl from Quizmaster Allen
Ludden, and the general opinion
of the winners was that the Gen-
erals’ “varsity scholars” had_ pro-
vided them with their  sternest
challenge of their five-week reign.

Washington and Lee’s team was

 

composed of senior Rick Anderson
of Startex, S. C., juniors Bill Low-
ry of Hobbs, N. M., and Jim Camp-
bell of St. Petersburg, Fla., and
sophomore ‘Tom Lybass, of Jack-
sonville, Fla.

They were chosen from among
some 75 candidates who tried out
for places on the team and the trip
to New York. A lengthy series of
written and oral examinations, giv-
en by team coach Frank Parsons,
reduced the field to eight finalists
from which the four best were
chosen on the basis of their broad
knowledge of many fields and their
ability to recall specific fact with
great speed and accuracy.

Alumni will recall that Wash-
ington and Lee appeared three
times on the radio version of the
College Bowl in 1954 and 1955.
The most successful team won five
times in 1954 before bowing.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

= THE COLLEGE BOWL TEAM wasn’t

the only team that spent long hours
in practice this fall. ‘The Univer-
sity’s revitalized debate team de-
voted some 100 hours of prepara-
tion that resulted in the Virginia
State Championship in the fall Tau
Kappa Alpha ‘Tournament. In win-
ning, the debate team out-argued
fourteen teams from ten other
Virginia colleges, and several mem-
bers ranked high individually.

Under its coach, English instruc-
tor Bill Chaffin, the debate team
has enjoyed a resurgence of inter-
est on the part of Washington and
Lee students. Some thirty-four stu-
dents make up the team and engage
in the exhaustive research and
practice that enables competent
handling of the year’s national
debate question: “Resolved: That
labor organizations be subject to
the jurisdiction of antitrust leg-
islation.” Long hours have been
spent in the Tucker Hall library
and in McCormick Library, and
team members have sought advice
of experts in preparing their argu-
ments.

Among the top performers for
Coach Chaffin have been Al Eckes,
of Bradford, Pa.; William Noell, of

Bluefield, W. Va.; Richard Mc-
Enally, of New Bern, N. C.; Wil-
liam Boardman, of Columbus, O.:
and John Clark, of Birmingham,
Ala.

@ INITIAL ENROLLMENT at Washing-
ton and Lee for the 1961-62 school
year was 1,185 students, according
to Registrar E. H. Howard. It
marked an increase of 22 students
over the initial enrollment a year
ago.

Included were 315 freshmen and
124 law students. A total of 259
Virginians enrolled, along with
students from forty-two other
states, the District of Columbia,
and seven foreign countries.

# THE UNIVERSITY’s eighteen social
fraternities pledged g60 freshmen
at the conclusion of the annual
rush week activity. The figure rep-
resented approximately 83 _ per
cent of the first year class. Delta
Tau Delta led with 25 pledges.

UNDERGRADUATE FINANCIAL AID at
the University this year totals
$169,922, more than $15,000 more
than was extended last year.
Sharing in the aid are 201 stu-
dents, comprising some 18 per cent
of the undergraduate enrollment,
according to James D. Farrar, di-

 

The new science building rises steadily.

FALL 1961

rector of student financial aid and
scholarships.

The current level of aid contin-
ues an upward trend that had its
beginning in 1954, when only
$44,970 was offered. ‘Two years
later, the total was $66,240, and by
1958-59, the level had risen to
$119,280.

Among freshmen this year, fifty-
nine students are sharing in $54,-
035 in financial aid.

m™ DUKE ELLINGTON and his famous
orchestra will play for Washington
and Lee’s annual Fancy Dress Ball
on February 2.

President of the 1962 Fancy Dress
Ball is William Ide, a senior from
Statesville, N. C.

# A MOBILE radioisotope laboratory
from the Atomic Energy Labora-
tories at Oak Ridge, Tenn., visited
the campus for a two-week instruc-
tional period.

Faculty members and advanced
science students took part in the
basic course in radioisotope tech-
niques. They attended a go-minute
lecture daily, and then engaged in
a two-hour laboratory class five
days a week.

 

m TWO INSTRUCTORS and two visit-
ing lecturers were added to the
University faculty for the 1961-62
term.

Edwin M. Curley a graduate of
Lafayette College, is an instructor
in philosophy; and Jay Laurence
Taylor, a graduate of New York
University, is an instructor in Ro-
mance languages.

Dr. John H. Bennetch and Dr.
Thomas E. Weir, both local min-
isters, were added to the staff as
visiting lecturers in classical lan-
guages, filling a vacancy created by
the death in July of Dr. Earl L.
Crum.

1g

 

m PAXTON DAVIS, associate professor
of journalism and communications,
is now serving as book editor of
the Roanoke Times.

™ DR. MARSHALL W. FISHWICK’S lat-
est book is Gentlemen of Virginia,
published by Dodd, Mead and
Company of New York. It is Dr.
Fishwick’s tenth book and his sixth
about the Old Dominion.

An article by Dr. Fishwick about
the hill folk of Virginia, Kentucky,
and Tennessee appeared in the
November issue of the Ford Times.
It carried the title of “Conjur
Country,” and dealt with the color-
ful superstitions and life of the
people who live in the upper re-
gions of the neighboring states.

Dr. Fishwick also was the author
of several leading articles in the
Roanoke Times’ 75th Anniversary
editions. A native of Roanoke, Dr.
Fishwick’s articles described the

growth and progress of Southwest —

Virginia’s leading city. Dr. Fish-
wick is professor of American
Studies at Washington and Lee.

m™ DR. EDGAR W. SPENCER, head of
the Department of Geology, is the
author of two textbooks in his
field which are scheduled for pub-
lication by T. Y. Crowell early in
1962.

Both lengthy works, one deals
with Basic Concepts of Physical
Geology, while the other deals in
Basic Concepts of Historical Geo-

ology.

m THE CIVIL WAR DIARIES of David
Hunter Strother, popular writer
and artist better known as “Porte
Crayon,” have been edited by Dr.
Cecil D. Eby, Jr., assistant professor
of English, and published by the
University of North Carolina Press.

The volume, entitled A Virginia
Yankee in the Civil War, is the
third by Dr. Eby dealing with the
Old Dominion native who fought
for the Union during the war. His
earlier works include The Old
South Illustrated, a Strother an-

20

the Bennington Composers Confer-

thology, and Porte Crayon: The
Life of David Hunter Strother.

|| University Host

To V.FI.C.

ASHINGTON AND LEE University

was host on September 23 to
the Trustees of the Virginia Foun-
dation of Independent Colleges
and to the presidents of the eleven
Old Dominion colleges which, with
Washington and Lee, make up its
membership.

The visit to the campus was the
first of a series of annual meetings
planned by the VFIC on the cam-
puses of member institutions.

The trustees are afforded an
opportunity to observe first-hand
the colleges in whose behalf they
work in soliciting support for
higher education among Virginia
corporations, partnerships and
businessmen.

In eight years, VFIC supporters
have added $2,944,628 to the in-
structional resources of the twelve
member colleges. |

  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

m DR. CHARLES F. PHILLIPS, JR., COn-
tinues to appear frequently as an
author in the nation’s leading eco-
nomic journals. His newest byline
appeared in The Southern Eco-
nomic Journal over an article en-
titled, “Workable Competition in
the Synthetic Rubber Industry.”

Dr. Phillips is building a repu-
tation as one of the nation’s bright-
est young minds in the field of
government and business. He is the
son of the president of Bates Col-
lege in Maine and holds an assist-
ant professorship at Washington
and Lee.

m= ROBERT STEWART, associate pro-
fessor of fine arts, was elected re-
cently to the board of trustees of

ence and Chamber Music Center in
Vermont.

eases
areas

 

University Host

To Parents

HE LARGEST ATTENDANCE in the
ft ae history of Washing-
ton and Lee’s popular Parents’
Weekend was recorded on October
27-30 when 1,050 parents and other
guests took part in a full three-day
program.

The busy schedule included a
meeting of the Parents’ Advisory
Council and the rejuvenation of
the annual Parents’ Fund which
had been inactive during the Uni-
versity Development Program’s cap-
ital fund campaign.

Other activities included a report
on the University by President Cole
and his chief administrative of-
ficers, personal conferences with in-_
dividual professors, guided campus
tours, lectures by professors on sub-
jects of timely interest, a reception
at the President’s Home, and
luncheon in Evans Dining Hall.

m FRESHMAN SHANNON JUNG of Alex-
andria, La., won the alumni award
at Freshman Camp for being able
to identify the most fellow campers
by name at the conclusion of the
three-day outing. The award is
sponsored by the Alumni Associa-
tion to recognize and preserve the
speaking tradition on the Wash-
ington and Lee campus.

uw THE FACULTY agreed to authorize
the organization of a Student Con-
trol Committee which will assist
the University’s Administrative
Committee in matters relating to
student misconduct in Lexington
and elsewhere.

The new student group, whose
formation was requested by the stu-
dent Executive Committee, will
have authority to handle minor dis-
ciplinary matters, but its work will
be subject to review by University
officials. .

Previous attempts to delegate

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

c

 

Above, l-r, DEAN GILLIAM and CLAR-
ENCE J. ROBINSON of Alexandria;
WILLIAM E. BLEWETT, JR., of Newport
News, PRESIDENT COLE, and unidenti-
fied VFIC trustee; VFIC President
Dr. SAMUEL R. SPENCER, JR., and
Executive Secretary LEA Bootu, ’4o.
Right, RecTor JAMES R. CASKIE, ’06,
Hollins PRESIDENT and Mrs. JOHN A.
LoGAN, JR., and VFIC Chairman and
Mrs. Sruart T. SAUNDERS of Roanoke
visit Lee Chapel and meet custodian
Miss MARY HAMILTON.

Right, Parents’ Advisory Council
Chairman RicHARD ‘T. Epwarps_ of
Roanoke with PRESIDENT COLE, DEANS
PusEY and GILLIAM; Senior ELLIOTT
MAYNARD of Portland, Maine, and his
parenis; PROFESSOR ROBERT KENNEY
and parents in conference. Below,
PROFESSORS CHARLES PHILLIPS and LE-
LAND McCLoup, in center, with Mr.
and Mrs. JOHN J. SmituH of Danville,
Virginia; a busy Colonnade scene.

The parents of 491 students, or forty-
six per cent of the student body,
aitended the weekend.

 

FALL 10961

 

 

 

 

21

ereater authority to the students
in the control of conduct breaches
have met with less than perfect re-
sults. In approving the new body,
the faculty placed its status on a
trial basis.

# TWO SENIORS have been endorsed
by the faculty as candidates for
Rhodes Scholarships. They are
Rosewell Page, of Beaverdam, Va.,
and Stephen W. Rutledge, of Mid-
dletown, Ohio.

Page is a B.A. candidate, while
Rutledge is seeking the B.S. in
Commerce degree. Both are honor
students, and in the opinion of
Dr. Fitzgerald Flournoy, chairman
of the University’s Rhodes com-
mittee and a former Rhodes Schol-
ar himself, they are “extremely
well-qualified.”’

Jon B. McLin, a 1960 graduate,
was the last Washington and Lee
student to receive one of the cov-
eted awards for study at Oxford.

g KENNETH R. BOIARSKY, Of Louis-
ville, Ky., was elected freshman
class representative to the Execu-
tive Committee, while Thurmond
Bishop, of Greenwood, S. C., was
chosen the Executive Committee-
man from the freshman law class.

m JOHN SOPER, a senior Majoring in
German and physics, participated
in an undergraduate training pro-
gram at the Oak Ridge Institute of
Nuclear Studies this summer. Rec-
ommended for the position by the
University’s Department of Physics,
Soper worked under the supervi-
sion of Dr. Robert C. Block .

 

8 AMONG the notable speakers who
visited the campus during the first
months of the new school year
were: Dr. Louis Wright, director of
the Folger Shakespeare Library in
Washington, D.C., who spoke on
“Shakespeare for the Layman.”
Dr. Kenneth E. Boulding, pro-

22

fessor of economics at the Univer-
sity of Michigan, who spoke on
ethical problems of capitalist and
socialist development in two ad-
dresses before a Seminar in Relig-
ion and Economics.

Dr. Taylor Cole, Duke Univer-
sity professor of political science,
who spoke on “The New Govern-
ments of West Africa.” He is the
brother of President Cole.

Howard Adams of the National
Trust for Historic Preservation,
who spoke on ““The Presence of the
Past.”

George F. Carter, chairman of
the Isaiah Bowman Department of

Geography at Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, who spoke on “A Fable in
Reverse.”

Sean O’Faolain, Irish critic and
author of fiction, who spoke on
“Trial by Pleasure” under the
sponsorship of the Department of
English and Phi Beta Kappa.

m THE SEMINARS IN LITERATURE Ser-
ies brought to the campus contro-
versial British author Colin Wilson
and author Montgomery Belgion.

Wilson discussed “The Younger

Generation of Writers in Europe,”
while Belgion talked about “The
Aesthetic Delusion.”

 

‘THOMAS B. BRYANT, JR.

A ST. LOUIS INDUSTRIALIST and an
Orangeburg, S. C., attorney have
been named to the Alumni Board
of Trustees, bringing the board to
its full membership of twelve as au-
thorized by changes in the asso-
clation’s charter. The board origt-
nally had eight members.

They are Andrew H. Baur, Jr.,
president of Industrial Properties,
Inc. in St. Louis, and ‘Thomas B.
Bryant, Jr., of Orangeburg. —

Baur’s term expires in June,
1963. Bryant will serve until June,
1964.

A member of the class of 1937,

 

ANDREW H. Baur, JR.

Baur has served as president of the
St. Louis alumni chapter. During
World War II he served in the mil-
itary intelligence branch of the
U.S. Air Force. He is the father of
four children.

Bryant, who received his bach-
elor of laws degree from Washing-
ton and Lee in 1928, is a former
South Carolina state senator. He
was judge of the Orangeburg City
Court for six years and has served
in the state House of Representa-
tives. His son, T. B. Bryant, ILI,
received his LL.B. from the Uni-
versity last June.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

————

Homecoming and Opening Dances
Combine for a Colorful Weekend

A Good ‘Time For All
Except Joe McCutcheon, ’51

OR PROBABLY the first time in
F the University’s history, Home-
coming was combined with Open-
ing Dances, resulting in an exciting
weekend for alumni and students.
Colorful football and rock ’n’ roll
music were the ingredients which
brought record crowds to the cam-
pus for the occasion. ‘The campus
was traditionally adorned with
creative and imaginative fraternity
house decorations. Four houses
were awarded prizes with SPE get-
ting the nod for first place and
Sigma Nu, Beta, and ZBT follow-
ing in close order.

Friday night’s pageant featured
a “pep” rally in front of the bril-
liantly-lighted Doremus Gymna-
sium with Cy Young, retired Alum-
ni Secretary and former W&L great,
sharing the spotlight with the judg-
ing of eighteen candidates for
Homecoming Queen. Inside, the
resounding beat of three different
“combo” groups was “warming up”
to the occasion. During intermis-
sion of the concert, a dark-eyed
brunette from Sweet Briar, Miss
Jean Inge, was crowned Queen.

In spite of drizzling rain Satur-
day morning, alumni began arriv-
ing in force—some from such dis-
ances as Miami, Florida; Missouri;
and Alamo, California. After a

warm reception at a morning cof-

fee in the President’s home, some

FALL 1961

419 alumni and their families join-
ed in Evans Dining Hall for lunch-
eon and pre-game conversation.

Clearing skies over Wilson Field
prevailed throughout the game as
the Generals wrapped up their sec-
ond consecutive Homecoming win,
this time over Randolph-Macon.
McLaughlin’s “untouchables” were
determined to stay in the win col-
umn and within 10 minutes of the
first quarter had a margin of 21-0
over alumnus Joe McCutcheon’s
Yellow Jackets. Halftime activities
included a well-drilled high school
band from Waynesboro, presenta-
tion of the Homecoming Queen,
and a second-place finish by W&L’s
cross-country team in a three-way

meet, despite the individual tri-
umph of the Generals’ Mike Shank
in record time for the course.

At the final whistle, the Generals
led, 43-0, and the large crowd dis-
persed for the evening entertain-
ment.

Alumni joined on the mezzanine
of the Robert E. Lee Hotel for a
reception where talk of “the unde-
feated”” was rampant. Both alumni
and students attended the evening
dances in the gymnasium where
Lloyd Price and his orchestra sup-
plied the music. As the sun rose
Sunday, alumni and _ students
agreed the “two for one” weekend
was highly successful and one of the
year’s finest.

 

Sigma Phi Epsilon’s winning decoration.

230

ROTC’s Eleventh Year at Washington and Lee

“Good Men Willing To Serve’

HE RESERVE OFFICER ‘Training
Corps started its eleventh year
at Washington and Lee this fall.
While this anniversary hardly be-
longs in the same ranks as the Civil
War Centennial, it does seem an
appropriate time to review the
program as it operates at Washing-
ton and Lee.
ROTC follows the same general
pattern at W&L as it does at the
many other colleges and universi-

 

By Major Epwarp Roxpury

Professor of Military Science and Tactics

ties throughout the country which
have a voluntary program. How-
ever, the Army purposely leaves the
day-by-day specifics of operation
open for adjustment to fit the par-
ticular circumstances of the uni-
versity involved. As a consequence,
just as Washington and Lee has
developed its own History Depart-
ment, so it has its own Military
Science Department. |
Since the program is voluntary,

the immediate problem at the be-
ginning of each year is freshman
enrollment. This usually runs
slightly more than half of the in-

coming class. A sincere effort is

made to insure that all freshmen
understand what the ROTC pro-
gram offers. It is advantageous
both to the student and the De-
partment that freshmen do not
enroll unless they have a real de-
sire to participate actively and con-
tinue this participation until they
receive a reserve commission.

The sophomore class is usually
about thirty per cent smaller than
the freshman class. This attrition
is due both to students who do not
find ROTC desirable for them and
to the policy of the department of
dropping others who apparently
do not have an aptitude for the
military.

The freshman and sophomore
years make up a block of instruc-
tion which constitutes the Basic
Course. The curriculum for this
course is as follows:

FRESHMAN YEAR

Organization of Army & ROTC

Individual Weapons & Marksmanship
US Army & National Security
European Military History
Leadership Lab (Drill)

SOPHOMORE CLASS

US Military History
Map & Aerial Photo Reading

Introduction to Operations and Basic
Tactics
Leadership Lab (Drill)

PRESIDENT COLE, accompanied by MAJOR Roxsury, commends distinguished cadets at
the annual “President’s Day” review.

24. THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

New recruits learn
how to “dress right”
under the instruction
of upperclass officers.

The next two years of ROTC
are grouped together as the Ad-
vanced Course. ‘The reason for this
grouping is the very different re-
lationship between the student and
the Army once he enters the Ad-
vanced Course. For the first time
he comes under a contractual ar-
rangement which obliges him to
remain in the program while, at
the same time, he begins receiving
a monthly payment in addition to
a uniform. Also he has embarked
in the last stage of training which
is going to bring his reserve com-
mission. Entrance into the Ad-
vanced Course remains voluntary,
but, since not all students who
want to enter can be accepted be-
cause of a quota system set up by
the Department of the Army, it is
also very selective. Generally, about
seventy per cent of the qualified
applicants are accepted.

The courses taught in the Ad-
vanced Course are designed to meet
the needs of the future officers as
opposed to those in the Basic
Course which are more concerned
with an initial understanding of
the military and the acquiring of
certain individual skills. The
courses taught are:

JUNIOR YEAR

Leadership

Military ‘Teaching Principles
Branches of the Army
Tactics and Communication

FALL 1961

Pre-camp Orientation
Drill and Command

SENIOR YEAR

Operations

Logistics

Military Law

Army Administration

US Role in World Affairs

Officers Orientation

Leadership Lab (Drill)

‘To give the Advanced Course
student a chance to exercise his
military knowledge, he must at-
tend a six-week summer camp at
the end of his junior year. This
year, Washington and Lee cadets
went to Fort Bragg, North Caro-
lina, where they participated in
everything from tactical problems
to K.P. While summer camp may
never replace the Grand ‘Tour in
popularity, it does perform the
important function of providing
practical experience in areas which
have previously been covered only
in the classroom.

To supplement this summer
camp experience three field exer-
cises are conducted here at Wash-
ington and Lee. Last year, these in-
cluded a night problem, a platoon
attack exercise, and work with heli-
copters.

The four years of training and
education in ROTC culminate in
the commissioning ceremony held
just before graduation. Each year
approximately fifty officers are com-
missioned in all branches of the

 

service except the Medical and
Judge Advocate General Corps. Af-
ter commissioning, these new re-
serve officers go on to serve in the
active army for six months or two
years on the same basis as the
other 14,500 officers produced each
year from ROTC units, such as the
one at VMI, all over the country.

In addition to producing reserve
officers, Washington and Lee also
furnishes the regular army with
two or three career officers a year.
Through the Distinguished Mili-
tary Graduate program a Wash-
ington and Lee student may enter
the regular army if he is qualified
and desires to do so.

Since its inception on the campus
there have been 470 students com-
missioned in the Army reserve and
fifteen commissioned in the regu-
lar army. Comparably, Washing-
ton and Lee, with a Corps of Ca-
dets of around goo, has one of the
highest commissioning rates in the
United States.

In the coming years when it will
be more important than ever that
the Armed Forces of this country
have high quality, dedicated of-
ficers, Washington and _ Lee,
through its Military Science De-
partment, can, as it always has,
continue to provide that most im-
portant ingredient of all—good men
willing to serve.

25

 

T FIRST there were 300 per day,
A then 400, and one day 552 Oc-
cupational Questionnaires were re-
turned. More than 4,o00 returns
in all were received in the first
two weeks after mailing, approxi-
mately 40 per cent of the total
number of questionnaires original-
ly mailed. It is an excellent start
but there is a long way to go to
reach the 100 per cent mark of
10,966 alumni. Reminders will be
mailed soon, but in the meantime,
alumni are urged to look up that
blue questionnaire and return it
promptly before the year ends.

As the returns come in, they are
being coded. IBM machines are

26

busy “punching” the information
that later will be used to develop
statistical data on former students

and their activities. While there
are roughly 11,000 alumni _ for
whom there are addresses, the total
number of IBM cards will ap-
proach 70,000. Various sets of cards
are necessary to collate the dif-
ferent statistical programs.

On the whole, the questionnaires
have been fully and accurately
completed. Some adjustments and
clarification may be required at a
later date.

An important aspect of the Oc-
cupational File is the interest and
enthusiasm of the alumni as re-

You're
In The

Cards!

Initial Response
To Questionnaire
On Jobs Is Good

flected in the good early returns.
If the rate of progress continues,
usable data in significant quantity
will be ready by Spring.

Collectively, this occupational
record will form a more accurate
profile of Washington and Lee
alumni and their careers. Individ-
ually, the record will provide a
more complete description of the
alumnus as a person. It will be-
come a part of his permanent file
and will be a lasting account of
his achievements.

From Executive Secretary Bill
Washburn comes this message: “Be
one who cares. Return your ques-
tionnaire!”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

In Washington

Men Behind
The Scenes

HE OCCUPATIONAL FILE CARDS for

four Washington and Lee alum-
ni might well indicate ‘men be-
hind the scenes in Washington.”

Their titles vary, but each holds
an important administrative post
in the office of a Virginia Senator
or Representative.

The senior member of the group,
from the standpoint of Washington
service, is Robert S. Bradford, ’55,
administrative assistant to Rep.
Richard E. Poff, veteran Republi-
can legislator from the Sixth Dis-
trict. He has been with Congress-
man Poff since 1957, and is a native
of Blacksburg, Va.

Robert B. McNeil, ’47, is also
from Blacksburg originally, and
has served as legislative assistant to
Senator A. Willis Robertson since
1960.

Andrew H.*MeCutcheon, = fr:

Alumni Sons at Freshman Camp: Which Is Yours?

 

FALL 1961

 

Washington and Lee’s Congressional aides, standing on the steps of the Capitol, are,
left to right, ROBERT B. MCNEIL, ’47, RoBert E. BRADFORD, ’55, ANDREW H. MCCUTCHEON,
Jr., 48, and NorRMAN L. Dosyns, ’54.

’48, formerly of Charleston, W. Va.,
but later of Richmond, has been
executive. secretary to Rep.” J;
Vaughan Gary since 1960.

Norman L. Dobyns, ’54, a native
of Newport News, joined Rep.
Thomas N. Downing’s staff as his
administrative assistant in 1960,
also.

All four are former newsmen,

and all majored in journalism at
Washington and Lee. Their jour-
nalistic backgrounds are particu-
larly valuable in handling the
various press contacts that Sena-
tors and Congressmen must main-
tain. But this is only one of many
responsibilities that make the job
of a Congressional aide a chal-
lenging and interesting occupation.

 

27

 

CHAPTER CORRESPONDENTS

Appalachian—Judge M. M. Long, Jr., °43,
St. Paul National Bank Building, St.
Paul, Virginia

Augusta-Rockingham—J. B. Stombock, ’41,
Box 594, Waynesboro, Virginia

Atlanta—Farris P. Hotchkiss, °58, 370 Al-
berta Terrace, N.E., Apt. 2-D

Baltimore—John D. Mayhew °26, 38 North-
wood Drive, Timonium, Mary! land

Birmingham—John V. Coe, ’25, 1631 North
3rd Street

Charleston West Virginia—Ruge P. DeVan,
Jr., '34, ‘United Carbon Building

Chattanooga—Gerry U. Stephens, °50, 2720
Haywood Avenue

Chicago—Charles A, Strahorn, ’28, Winnet-
ka Trust and Savings Bank, Winnetka,
Illinois

Charlotte—John Schuber, ae r., °44, 1850
Sterling Road, Charlotte 9,N Cc.

Southern Ohio—Robert F. Wersel, he 1925
Rockwood Drive, Cincinnati 8,

Cleveland—Hal R. Gates, Jr.,
Wickfield Road, Cleveland 22

Cumberland Valley—James L. Rimler, '31,
N. Court St., Frederick, Maryland

Danville—C. Richmond Williamson, ‘51,
P. O. Box 497

a 19801

Florida West Coast—Charles P. Lykes, ’39,
P. O. Box 2879, Tampa, Florida

Houston—Robert I. Peeples, '57, 2344 South
Boulevard

Jacksonville—A. Lee Powell, Jr., °50, 34
Buckman Building

Kansas eo: H. Leedy, °49, 15 West
10th Street

Louisville—Robert W. Vaughan, ’50, Suite
1149, Starks Building

Lynchburg—Frank H. Callaham, Jr., °52,
1521 Parkland Drive, Lynchburg

Mid-South—J. Hunter Lane, Jr., ’52, 727
Commerce Title Bldg., Memphis, Tenn.

New Orleans—James W. Hammett, °40,
215 Prytaina Street, New Orleans 40,
Louisiana

New York—Robert E. Steele, ITI, ’41, 7
Pine Ridge Road, Town of Rye, Port-
chester, New York,

New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Mo-
ran, 13, Beckley, West Virginia

noe Virginia—Ferdinand Phillips, Jr.,
Sl, 5 Banning Rd., Norfolk

North Pees. B: Sowell, Jr., °54 Ed-
wards, Fortson, Sowell and Akin, 23rd
Floor Adolphus Tower, Dallas 2, Texas

Northern Louisiana—Robert U. Goodman,
’50, 471 Leo Street, Shreveport, a

Peninsula—John P. Bowen, Jr., °51, The
The Daily Press, Inc., 215-217 Sete Street
Newport News, Virginia

Palm Beach - Ft. Lauderdale — John F.
Ginestra, °44, 2748 N.E. 20th Street Ft.
Lauderdale

Philadelphia—Stephen Berg, °58, 535 Pel-
ham Road

Piedmont—A, M. Pullen, Jr., '36, 203 South-
eastern Building, Greensboro, N. C.

Pittsburgh—A. M. Doty, '35, Quail Hill
Road, Fox-Chapel, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Richmond—C. W. Pinnell, Jr., °42, Pin-
nell’s, Incorporated, 701-703 West Broad
Street, Richmond 20, Virginia

Roanoke—William R. Holland, °50, Moun-
tain Trust Bank, P. O. Box 1411

van Antonio—John W. Goode, Jr.,

N. St. Mary’s Street

St. ‘Louis—Albert H. Hamel, °50, 433 Polo
Drive, Clayton 5, Missouri.

Tri-State—Joe W. Dingess, ’21, 151 Kings
Highway, Huntington, West Virginia

Tulsa—Phillip R. Campbell, °’57, 603 Phil-
tower Bldg., Tulsa, Oklahoma’

Upper Potomac—Thomas N. Berry, ’38, 15

Allegany a Cumberland, Maryl and

Washington, Cc. — Arthur Clarendon

Smith, Jr., a 1313 You Street, N.W.

Wilmington, Delaware—A. Robert Abra-
hams, Jr., ’37, 303 Waverly Rd.

°43, 201

 

If you move, contact the nearest
chapter correspondent for
news of meetings.

28

CLASS NOTES

1902

As a posthumous award to Dr. WILLIAM
ALLAN, a medal was given this year to
Mrs. Allan of Charlotte, North Carolina,
at the annual meeting of the American
Society of Human Genetics. The Allan
medal will be awarded annually hereaf-
ter for “outstanding research in human
genetics.” Until his death in 1943, Dr. Al-
lan was a tireless worker in uncovering
the relationship of heredity to disease.
His practice in Charlotte included pa-
tients in the most remote and simple
dwellings in the mountainous surrounding
areas where he found one of the few
spots in the United States where heredi-
tary disease could be located in quantity.

The study of hereditary disease became
a compelling force in his life, so much
so that he kept “pedigrees” of his moun-
tain patients and visited their relatives in
every part of the state to trace the in-
cidence of their genetic diseases. In ad-
dition to private practice and individual
research, Dr. Allen organized the depart-
ment of medical genetics at the Bowman
Gray School of Medicine.

1905

Late in July HANEY BERLIN CONNER of
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, was presented
with a 50-year Masonic membership pin.
This presentation was made to Mr. Con-
ner by Masonic officials of the state of
Louisiana because of his years of out-

 

Carlton E. Fewett—Resolution of Richmond Chapter

m “THE LANGUAGE that we speak
seems insufficient to measure the
sorrow and sense of loss by the
alumni in the passing of Judge
Carleton Ellsworth Jewett, Law
Class of ’21, our esteemed and val-
ued friend and member of the
Richmond Chapter of the Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni.

“His death on August 24, 1961
was a profound loss to his host of
friends. We are all poorer by his
absence.

“In his association with us and
with Washington and Lee he was
always generous with his time. His
loyalty, good judgment, high integ-
rity and leadership are reflected in
the growth of our alumni chapter
today. He seldom if ever, missed
any of our meetings. His devotion
and enthusiasm were inspirational.

“A goodly company will hold the
Judge in grateful and affectionate
remembrance as a Christian gentle-

man, a leader in his church, who
won hearts and attained nobility
in his capacity for doing the many
little things for so many that made
life for the beneficiaries thereof
happier and less burdensome. His
amiable manner and the warmth
and sincerity of his friendship will
long be treasured in the members
of this organization.

“BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED: That
a copy of this resolution be sent to
his bereaved family as an expres-
sion of our heartfelt sympathy.

“BE IT FUTHER RESOLVED: ‘That
this memorial be made a part of
this meeting and that a copy there-
of be sent to our alumni secretary,
Mr. W. C. Washburn in Lexington,
Virginia.

Reno S. Harp, III, 54; E. J. Mc-
Carty, 42; C. W. Pinnell, Jr., °46;
John F. Kay, Jr.,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

standing work in Masonic circles, partic-
ularly as grand master of the Masonic
Lodge of the State of Louisiana. Begin-
ning in 1922, Mr. Conner was in the state
legislature for three consecutive terms. He
was then elected treasurer of the State
of Louisiana and afterwards was employed
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo-
ration. He was also a state bank examiner
until his retirement two years ago.

1907

The maternal ancestors of WILLIAM F.
SEMPLE for four generations have been
concerned with the local affairs of the
Choctaw Indian tribe in Oklahoma. Mr.
Semple is now serving as Choctaw tribal
attorney for the third time, having been
appointed by President Taft in 1913,
President Wilson in 1918, and again in
1950. Mr. Semple’s relationship with the
Choctaws may be traced as far back as
1774 when his great-great-grandfather
lived with the tribe and was appointed in-
terpreter by President George Wash-
ington. In 1932 he came to ‘Tulsa as
chief counselor for the Deep Rock Oil
Company but retired from this position
in 1949. The Tulsa attorney is an author-
ity on and has written a book about
Indian land laws, and currently he is en-
gaged in winding up the tribal affairs of
the Choctaws and disposing of their
property consisting of many tracts of val-

gable land and of oil and gas mineral
rights.

1909

CarL Hinton has been elected for his
third term to the city council of Hinton,
West Virginia. The council elected him
president, which means that Mr. Hinton
carries the duties of vice-mayor of his
community.

1912

LEONARD B. RANSON retired seven years
ago and makes his residence in St. Peters-
burg, Florida. For many years he was
district manager of the Equitable Life
Insurance Company in Baltimore.

1913

WILLIAM TAYLOR THOM, Jr., has written
an essay for the “Science and the Future
of Mankind” which is sponsored by the
World Academy of Art and Science. The
work is entitled “Science and Engineer-
ing—and the Future of Man” and was
published in July, 1961. Dr. Thom is
professor of Geology, emeritus, at Prince-
ton University.

1914

CoL. FRANCIS PICKENS MILLER, well-known
Virginia political figure and former Rock-
bridge resident, has recently been ap-

pointed special assistant to Philip H.
Combs, the Assistant Secretary of State
for Education and Cultural Affairs. A
former consultant to the Department of
State with a broad background in inter-
national affairs, Colonel Miller will serve
as the liaison officer between the assistant
secretary and voluntary and educational
groups in the field of international ex-
change programs.

Prior to World War II he served ten
years as chairman of the World’s Student
Christian Federation with headquarters
in Geneva. He then became organization
director of the Council of Foreign Rela-
tions in New York City.

After a distinguished career in World
War II he served in Berlin as executive
officer for intelligence for the U.S. Mili-
tary Government. A former member of
the Virginia House of Delegates from
Fairfax County, Colonel Miller has been
a leader in the Virginia Democratic party
for many years. He is married to the
journalist, Helen Hill Miller, and they
have two sons, Andrew who practices law
in Abingdon and the Reverend Robert
Miller who is a minister in Tuskegee,
Alabama. Colonel Miller has served on the
board of visitors of the U.S. Military
Academy; on the board of the College
of William and Mary; on the board of St.
John’s College at Annapolis; and is now a
member of the board of Mary Baldwin
College.

 

m WILLIAM L. “PIN” WEBSTER, ‘12,
veteran Schenectady automobile
(Ford) dealer, was named New
York State Automobile Dealer of
the Year at a special award lunch-

eon at the Concord Hotel in Kia-
mesha Lake, October 24th. The
award, the second of its kind, was
the highlight of the 38th annual
convention of the New York State

 

New York’s lieutenant governor MALCOLM WILSON congratulates WILLIAM L. “PIN”
WEBSTER, 712.

FALL 1961

Automobile Dealers’ Association.

The Dealer of the Year Award
was presented to Mr. Webster in
recognition of his outstanding lead-
ership, meritorious contributions
to the automotive industry, and
leadership in public service.

Mr. Webster, a former president
of the Washington and Lee Alumni
Association, celebrated his forty-
fifth anniversary last July as the
owner of the Ford dealership in
Schenectady. He is a member of
the board of directors of the Schen-
ectady ‘Trust Company and presi-
dent of the city’s Hotel Corpora-
tion.

As chairman of the Board of
Visitors for Union College, Mr.
Webster has been instrumental in
establishing the John Quinlan
Memorial Scholarship Fund. He
has served on a number of im-
portant industry committees, in-
cluding the Ford Dealers National
Council.

=o

CLasSS NOTES

1916

JosE CAMINERO, a former journalist, pub-
lisher, and career diplomat in Cuba, is
now living in Coral Gables, Florida. Prior
to the Castro regime, Jose was at one time
Cuban ambassador to Nicaragua and later
to Colombia.

1917

CHARLES WALLACE McNitr has opened
an office for the practice of dermatology
in Charlottesville, Virginia.

1918

Longevity records of many kinds have
been set by B. F. Tiriar, member of a
hardware firm in Emporia, Virginia. He
is most proud of a 33-year perfect at-
tendance record at Sunday School and of
holding official positions in the First Pres-
byterian Church for 35 years. Mr. Tillar’s
interest in fire-fighting has resulted in
service with the Emporia volunteer fire
department spanning a 40-year period.
He has also been president of a building
and loan association, on the Board of
Directors of the Citizens National Bank,
past commander of the American Legion
Post 46, past president of the Emporia
Rotary Club, and past president of the
Virginia Retail Hardware Association.

1923

A prominent Logan, West Virginia, attor-
ney, CLAUDE A. JOYCE, has assumed duties
as assistant attorney-general of the state
of West Virginia. Mr. Joyce’s long experi-
ence in the practice of law suits him for
this position. He has served as Logan city
attorney and police judge, and in the
fall of 1933 was elected prosecuting at-
torney of Logan County in which office
he served until last December. Mr. Joyce
also has been active throughout the years
in Democratic Party affairs, serving one
term as Logan County Democratic Exec-
utive Committee Chairman.

1925

BORN: Ropert ADAM FULWILER, JR., and
Mrs. Fulwiler announce the birth of their
son, Robert A. Fulwiler, III, on March
4, 1961. The Fulwilers have an older
daughter and live in Wilmington, Dela-
ware, where Bob is a practicing attorney.

A New York heart specialist and a leader
in the American Heart Association, Dr.
HERBERK POLLACK is quoted extensively in
the October 27th issue of the Wall Street
Journal on the question: Can changes in
the diet help prevent heart attacks? ‘The
article is in the interest of two major
medical research projects on the question.
In line with the research on this heart
problem, Dr. Pollack is advocating that

30

food package labels state the type of fat
contents.

1926

The financial vice-president and_ treas-
urer of the Shenandoah Life Insurance
Company, THOMAS ‘THORN Moore, has
been elected to the company’s Board of
Directors. Aside from his position with
Shenandoah Life, Mr. Moore has been
unusually active in insurance and bank-
ing circles. He has been chief examiner
for the Virginia Bureau of Insurance, a
director of the Virginia Development Cor-
poration, a member of the Richmond
Society of Financial Analysts, and a mem-
ber of the Joint Tax Committee of the
American Life Convention and the Life
Insurance Association of America.

1927

Since 1927 Joe W. Pitts has been with the
firm of Brown-Roberts Hardware and
Supply Company, Ltd., in Alexandria,
Louisiana. ‘This big Louisiana firm is now
completing its sixtieth year, and the
Pitts family has been a part of the suc-
cessful growth of the business since the
beginning, and today Joe is chief execu-
tive.

Resigning after seven years as U.S. At-
torney for the Western District of Vir-
ginia, JOHN O. STRICKLER is engaged with
his son in general practice of law under
the firm name of Strickler and Strickler
in Roanoke.

1928

WILLIAM P. WoopLey of Norfolk was
elected to the board of directors of the
Shenandoah Life Insurance Company at
the fall meeting in October. Mr. Woodley
has been president of the Columbian Pea-
nut Company since 1947. Active in state
and national organizations, he is a mem-
ber of the board of the Department of
Conservation & Economic Development
of Virginia, the National Association of
Manufacturers, and serves on the board
of the Norfolk Bank of Commerce, the
Norfolk General Hospital, and the United
Communities Fund.

1929

Since 1953 JOHN D. STANARD has. been the
publisher-editor of Tennessee Food Field.
This publication is issued for the food
industry of Tennessee. John also serves
as a roving correspondent for many na-
tional business magazines and as a con-

 

 

# ON AUGUST 1, 1961, Robert D.
Powers, ’29, attained the rank of
Admiral in the Navy. This promo-
tion has come to Admiral Powers
after a distinguished career in ser-
VICe.

His training and experience as
an attorney enabled him to accept
assignments as a legal officer in

various phases of duty: Assistant
Security Officer in ‘Trinidad; in the
office of the Judge Advocate Gen-
eral of the Navy in Washington;
Counsel for the Judge Advocate
Naval Court of Inquiry to Investi-
gate the Japanese Attack on Pearl
Harbor; District Legal Officer for
the Fifth Naval District, Norfolk;
and from 1950 to 1961, duties in
the Office of the Judge Advocate
General leading to his present des-
ignation as Deputy and Assistant
Judge Advocate General, Navy De-
partment.

Admiral Powers holds the Ameri-
can Defense Service Medal, with
Star, the American Campaign Med-
al, the World War II Victory Med-
al, and the National Defense Ser-
vice Medal.

While at Washington and Lee,
Admiral Powers served as a mem-
ber of the Student Body Executive
Committee and was active in Pi
Kappa Phi, Phi Alpha Delta, and
Omicron Delta Kappa fraternities.

He is a native of Gloucester
County, Virginia. |

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

m= AN OVERFLOW CROWD of lawyers
witnessed the swearing in of J.
Robert Martin, ’31, to the federal
bench on September goth. Judge
Martin was sworn in as “roving”
judge for the eastern and western
districts of South Carolina, one of
seventy-three new federal judge-
ships approved by Congress this
year. Senator Olin Johnston of
South Carolina presented Martin
with the pen President Kennedy
used in signing the legislation and
the nomination of Martin to be a
federal judge.

Previous to his election as judge
of South Carolina’s 13th Judicial
Circuit in 1944, Judge Martin
served in the state House of Rep-
resentatives. During the past eigh-
teen years he has presided in every
county in South Carolina and
knows almost every member of the
bar in the state.

The syndicated columnist, W.
D. Workman, in devoting an en-

tire column to Judge Martin’s ap-
pointment writes: “A foregone con-
clusion became an accomplished
fact Friday when Judge J. Robert
Martin of Greenville became South
Carolina’s newest, youngest, and

 

biggest federal district judge....
‘The fact that he has done so, how-
ever, is more a tribute to his legal
and judicial ability—and industry—
than to the political considerations
which sometimes dictate the choice
of judges...and it was his dili-
gence and capacity, not his politi-
cal connections, which won for him
the endorsement of local bar asso-
clations throughout the entire
state.

“... he is no court-room dictator,
but he runs a strict and straight
court. His height, about six feet
two, and his weight, topping 200
pounds, make him an impressive
figure, but he retains the agile mo-
bility reminiscent of the days when
he was varsity tackle of the Wash-
ington and Lee football team....
Judge Martin is expected to bring
to the federal bench a new vig-
or....He also brings to the bench
a rare degree of political accepta-
bility.”

 

sultant to food manufacturers and adver-
tising agencies in the Southern food field.
He lives at “Wild Acres” atop Lookout
Mountain, on Bagby Lane. Mrs. Stanard
is Executive Assistant at the Chattanooga
Public Library.

Joun BELL Tow. of Augusta, Georgia,
is district governor for Rotary. He is also
president of The Home Federal Savings
and Loan Company and is a former ves-
tryman and lay-reader of St. Paul’s Epis-
copal Church.

1930

As head of the office of Civil Defense Mo-
bilization, Transportation, Region III,
Thomasville, Georgia, CHARLES WILBUR
CockE has been asked to address the
Canaveral Chapter of the Defense Trans-
portation Association of Cocoa Beach.
Charley is a transportation coordinator
and as such has served in the engineering
departments of several railroads, pipe-
line companies, and state dock offices. He
also had nine years of active service in the
Transportation Corps of the U.S. Army
and fulfilled an assignment under the
Chief of Transportation Traffic Control
Division, Washington, D.C. After duty
in World War II as a member of the staff
of various military Transportation
Schools, Charley was relieved from ac-
tive duty with the rank of Lieutenant
Colonel and joined the Federal Defense

FALL 1961

Administration office, Region III, as re-
gional transportation officer.

HOwELL FRANK SNODGRASS is District Sales
Manager for the Champion Spark Plug
Company in Houston, Texas.

1931

WILLIAM CARVER WAGNER is President of
the York Bank and Trust Company in
York, Pennsylvania. ‘The result of the
merger of two banks several years ago,
The York Bank and Trust Company is
now the largest operation in this area.
Bill has been with the banking business
for a number of years.

1932

BORN: ARTHUR B. SCHARFF and Mrs.
Scharff announce the arrival of a daugh-
ter, Kathleen Clark, on September 30,
1961. Art is in the American Express
Travel Office in Cincinnati, Ohio.

JouHN CLINTON Harris is president of the
Alabama Wholesale Grocers Association.
He and Mrs. Harris have one son and
three daughters and reside in Scottsboro,
Alabama.

1933

CLAUDE A. LAVARRE and his family have
moved from Medellin, Colombia, South
America, to the capital of Colombia, Bo-
gota. Claude is with the Singer Sewing
Machine Company, and this move was

made so that the head office of the Sing-
er Company for Colombia could be lo-
cated in the capital of the country. Claude
has lived in many cities in South America
since he joined the Singer Company in
1934.

1937

WILLARD E. PETERSON has been in the
finance business for twenty-two years. For
sixteen years he was a manager of a large
finance chain and now owns his own com-
pany, Peterson Finance Company, in Du-
luth, Minnesota. “Pete” and Mrs. Peter-
son have two daughters—the eldest is a
sophomore at the University of Minne-
sota and the youngest is in junior high
school.

Since receiving his degree JOHN MALCOLM
McCarbELt has been associated with the
Potomac Edison Company in Frederick,
Maryland. In July he was elected assist-
ant secretary and assistant treasurer of
the company.

M. Cowt Riper, Jr., advertising copy-
writer with N. W. Ayers & Son, Inc.,
Philadelphia, since 1953, has joined the
editorial staff of the Wall Street Jour-
nal’s New York offices. Mr. Rider is a
former associate editor of the Richmond
(Va.) News Leader.

Among the new class of the Fourth Senior
Seminar in Foreign Policy at the Foreign

31

CLass NOTES

Service Institute is RICHARD K. STUART.
The class was officially opened by Secre-
tary of State Dean Rusk who marked the
importance attached to this particular
program of in-service training by the
State Department. The Senior Seminar is
the most advanced training program of-
fered by the Department and is designed
to prepare officers to assume positions of
highest responsibility in policy recommen-
dations, coordination, and administration
at home and abroad. Dick’s previous po-
sition has been Chief, Southwest Pacific
Division, Office of Research Analysis for
Asia.

EpwarD G. RAwts has been appointed a
representative of the Connecticut Mutual
Life Insurance Company. He will be asso-
ciated with the D. Conrad Little Agency
in Norfolk.

1938

Cruise director, WILLIAM H. HuDGINS, re-
cently guided three hundred Americans,
tourists on the cruise liner, SS Argen-
tina, through four large Brazilian cities
which were in the midst of rebellion.
Sight-seeing during the revolution en-
tailed added responsibilities for director,
Bill Hudgins, but using all precautionary
measures possible, he was able to afford
the cruise passengers all the delights of
traveling in Brazil. Extensive travel ex-
perience came to Bill as he logged his
first million miles of globetrotting in the
foreign service as a Navy commander in
World War II. In the Navy he also served
on ex-President Truman’s staff and in
southern European NATO headquarters.

1939

An extensive business trip in connection
with U.S. Steel company insurance has

 

m GERALD M. LIVELY, 38, agent of
National Life Insurance Company,
is one of eleven selected company
representatives from nine _ states
who attended a special home office
training school in September in
Montpelier, Vermont. He is asso-
ciated with the firm’s general
agency in Kansas City, Missouri,
Harold E. Goss Company. The Na-
tional Life school, now in its 64th
session, provides two weeks of in-
tensive study and work in various
phases of life insurance planning
and selling.

Lively was former vice-president
and trust officer of the City Nation-
al Bank and ‘Trust Company and
an earlier practicing attorney be-
fore entering the insurance profes-
sion in 1960. Among his civic, com-
munity and professional activities
he is the director of the estate plan-
ning division of the Law Center of
the University of Kansas City. This
fall he will lecture on life insurance
and estate planning in the adult
education program at St. Theresa’s
College in Kansas City. |

After receiving his law degree
from the University of Michigan
Law School in 1941 he was tax at-
torney for Southwestern Bell Tele-
phone Company for four years be-

32

 

fore joining the City National
Bank and Trust Company in 1956.
He is a member of the Kansas City
and American Bar Associations, the
Missouri Bar, and is charter presi-
dent of the estate planning council
of Kansas City. He heads the down-
town Kansas City Optimist Club
and has been its vice-president and
on its board of governors.

He has for many years been an
outstanding class agent for the
Alumni Fund. He and his wife and
two daughters live in Prairie Vil-
lage, Kansas.

taken CHARLES G. GILMORE to many of
the Latin American countries. During
July, Charlie visited from one to three
days in Venezuela, Brazil, Uruguay, Ar-
gentina, Peru, and Nassau, and covered
many intermediate points by plane. Along
this route he had occasion to see several
alumni. Charlie is with Marsh and Mc-
Lennan, Incorporated, of Pittsburgh.

Victor A. SNow, JR., former director of
sales for the Southeastern Division of
Belknap Hardware and Manufacturing
Company in Louisville, Kentucky, has
been named director of sales and to the
board of directors of the Van Camp Hard-
ware and Iron Company of Indianapolis,
Indiana. Victor has been associated with
Belknap in Louisville for twenty-two
years.

In September ALAN BuxTON HOBBES re-
signed his position as assistant general
counsel with the Federal ‘Trade Commis-
sion in Washington and joined the legal
staff of the American Optical Company in
Southbridge, Massachusetts. Upon leaving
the Commission, Alan was presented with
its Distinguished Service Award by Chair-
man Paul Rand Dixon for his record in
handling the agency’s cases in the courts.

1940

When the 1ooth Division of the Ken.
tucky National Guard leaves Louisville
for Ft. Polk, Louisiana, Lr. CoL. ERNEST
Woopwarb, II, will be among its officers.
Ernie, a leading attorney in Louisville
and past president of the Alumni Asso-
clation, is a lieutenant colonel in the
operational branch of the 2900 man divis-
ion. The division has been ordered to
Ft. Polk, which is in southwest Louisiana
about sixty miles southwest of Alexandria.
Ernie is among the top officers, the list
of whom reads like part of a Who’s Who
in Kentucky business and industry.

GUILLERMO Moscoso, JR., is returning to
Puerto Rico where he is associated with
DELTEC, an investment banking firm.
Bill has been in South America since
graduation and most recently in Lima.

On leave of absence as a reporter for the
New York AHerald- Tribune, FrRAnNcIs
SUGRUE is author of a book entitled Popes
in the Modern World. Published by Crow-
ell, the work is the story of the lives of
six modern Popes who led the Catholic
Church into modern times. After serving
aboard an LST in World War II, Fran-
cis joined the Herald-Tribune where he
has held a variety of assignments. He
and Mrs. Sugrue have three children.

Luria Bros. & Co. has appointed MERVIN
H. Luria Assistant Regional Vice-presi-
dent. Luria Bros. is a division of the Og-
den Corporation. Mervin, who has been
with the company since 1939, will assist
in company operations in a broad area
encompassing eleven western states, and
will remain in charge of Luria’s Los An-
geles office. He served in the company’s
Detroit office until 1948, and then moved

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

to the Buffalo office until 1958, when he
assumed charge of the Los Angeles of-
fice.

1941

MARRIED: JouHN A. GURKIN, JR., and
Miss Anne Ireland were married in
Christ St. Lukes Church in Norfolk, Vir-
ginia, on October 21, 1961. Also in Oc-
tober, John became associated with the
firm of Nusbaum and Alfriend in Nor-
folk for the general practice of law. En-
tering the field of law as an attorney is
a change for John. After a five-year tour
of duty in the Navy, he was released in
1946 with the rank of Lieutenant Com-
mander, and for the past ten years he
has served in the capacity of president of
the Gurkin Electric Company.

JAMES ROGER MCCONNELL is associated
with the Pangborn Corporation, manufac-
turers of blast cleaning equipment and
abrasives, in Hagerstown, Maryland. Jim
is vice-president of the abrasive manufac-
turing division.

RICHARD W. SMITH, attorney and former
mayor of Staunton, has resigned from
the City Council after seven years service.
His term of office had one more year to
run. The resignation was accepted by the
Staunton City Council with “deep regret.”

As executive manager, KENNETH B. VAN
De WATER, JR., is carrying out the tradi-
tion that someone in his family heads
the Sentinel Printing Company of Hemp-
stead, Long Island, and Ken takes pride
in this fact. At the same time, he is aware
of the need for progress in technology
and management, and he is an enthusias-
tic association man, having served as the
founding chairman of the Nassau Print-
ers Group and as treasurer and a member
of the board of directors of Master Print-
ers Section, NYEPA.

HAL W. SmitH has been appointed Chief
of the Department of Otolaryngology of
the Kaiser Foundation Hospital and Clin-
ic at Fontana, California.

ARTHUR C. SMITH, JR., was selected for a
full “Colonelcy’” in the U.S.M.C.R. last
February. After serving two years as presi-
dent of the Washington, D.C., Trucking
Association, Art was elected director and
vice-president in the Mayflower Ware-
housemen’s Association. Art also has in-
terests other than that of the transfer and
storage business, for he is a director in
the Mutual Building and Loan Associa-
tion of Kensington, Maryland, and an
organizer and director of a new insurance
company in Washington.

1942

BORN: SAM CIENER, JR., and Mrs. Ciener
announce the birth of a daughter, Cyd,
on September 16, 1961.

EVANS JASPER has been elected to the local
Board of Education in Kankakee, Illinois.
He is.also chairman of the Athletic Com-

FALL 1961

 

MERVIN H. Lurla, ’40

mittee in this high school which is plan-
ning extensive expansive developments.

OscAR CLEAL was critically wounded in a
shooting during an abortive attempt to
hijack a Pacific Airlines DC-3 plane on
August 2nd in Chico, California. Cleal,
formerly of Buffalo, was a Navy pilot in
World War II. He and Mrs. Cleal have
two children.

1943

In a hard-fought contest, JOHN W. GOODE,
Jr., of San Antonio was defeated in his
race for a congressional seat in the ‘Texas
primary in November. In this vote the
political spot-light was focussed on Texas,
and the race brought attention because of
the participation locally of both Vice-
President Lyndon Johnson and ex-Presi-
dent Eisenhower.

LAWRENCE C. SULLIVAN, JR., is a partner
now in the firm of Baker, Brydon, Ren-
nolds, and Whitt, certified public account-
ants, and is the manager of the office in
Manassas, Virginia.

The new assistant superintendent in the
bond department of the American Insur-
ance Group in Newark, N.J., is ERNEST
E. SmirH. Ernie went into insurance in
1948 as a claim adjustor and then joined
American in 1959 aS a supervisor.

After being affiliated with The United
Corporation, WILLIAM H. ARMSTRONG is
joining Continental Research Corporation
as vice-president in charge of research.
Continental Research runs the various
United Funds, Inc., with assets in excess
of one billion dollars.

Jack C. MurRELL was named _ vice-presi-
dent of the Commercial National Bank of
Shreveport, Louisiana. Jack started his
banking career in 1947 with the Continen-
tal-American Branch which was later

merged with the Commercial National
Bank. He is finance officer of the local
post of the American Legion, treasurer
of the YMCA branch and was chairman
of the business division of the United
Fund in 1956. He and Mrs. Murrell have
three children.

1944

BORN: STANCLIFF CHURCHILL ELMORE and
his wife, Betty Buchanan, announce the
birth of a son, Stancliff Churchill, Jr.,
on February 14, 1961. Mr. Elmore is an
attorney with the firm of Lambert &
Northrop in Washington, D.C.

A former attorney-general of West Vir-
ginia, JOHN GerorGE Fox, has been ap-
pointed assistant vice-president of the
American Telephone and Telegraph Com-
pany. Since 1958 John has been a general
attorney for the A. T. & T. of West Vir-
ginia and has been living in Charleston.
Prior to his association with the telephone
company, he practiced law in Fayetteville,
West Virginia. At the time of this recent
appointment, John was also serving on
the visiting committee of the College of
Law of West Virginia University, as a
member of the State Rehabilitation Ad-
visory Council, and on the Executive
Council of the West Virginia Bar As-
sociation.

LEON Harris, J]R., received his Master of
Arts degree with a major in science from
Middle Tennessee State College in August.

1945

Davin W. Foerster has been appointed a
member of the Board of Governors of
The Florida Bar. David is past president
of the Jacksonville Bar Association, 1959-
60, and has been active in the committee
work of The Florida Bar, serving as
chairman of the public relations commit-
tee in 1955-56.

1946

MARRIED: FRASER KINGSTON MACMINN and
Aleene Merle Barnes were married on
July 28, 1961, in Los Angeles, California.

Appointment of GrorcE R. PEGUILLAN to
the sales staff of Foilcraft Printing Corp-
oration of West Hempstead, Long Island, |
was announced in September by the presi-
dent of the firm. George will be primarily
responsible for foil printing sales to the
cosmetic industry. Prior to joining Foil-
craft, he was associated in various sales
posts in the cosmetic field.

JAMEs F. BREWSTER has been transferred
from Towson, Maryland, to the New York
City sales office of the United States Steel
Corporation. He resides in Mt. Kisco,
New York.

RoDNEY M. Cook waged a successful cam-
paign for alderman from the Eighth
Ward in Atlanta, Georgia, sweeping to a
decisive victory over his opponent. Dur-
ing his school days, Rodney established

33

 

Name Mour Candidate

In compliance with Article 9 of the By-Laws of the Washington
and Lee Alumni, Inc., we are listing below the names of the Nom-
inating Committee for the coming year.

Under the By-Laws, any member of the Association may submit
the names of alumni to fill the vacancies on the Alumni Board of
Trustees and the alumni representation on the University Com-
mittee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

‘There are three vacancies to be filled on the Alumni Board of
‘Trustees and one vacancy in the alumni representative to the Uni-
versity Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics. ‘These vacancies
are to be filled at the June 1962 meeting of the Alumni Associa-
tion. Members are urged to submit names of their candidates for
these offices. The Nominating Committee will close its report on
April 9, 1962. Present alumni trustees whose terms expire this
year are: Paul M. Shuford, ’43, Clark B. Winter, ’37, Bernard
Levin, ‘42. ‘he term of Lea Booth, ’40, on the University Com-
mittee on Intercollegiate Athletics also expires this year.

The Nominating Committee as appointed by the President of

WILuiAM H. LEEpy, ‘49
Federal Reserve Bank of
Kansas City
10th and Grand
Kansas City 6. Missouri

 

Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., is as follows:

Joun Bett Towtr.t, ’29, Chairman
1015-21 Southern Finance Building
Augusta, Georgia

FReD BARTENSTEIN, JR., 39
R.D. No. 1
Mendham, New Jersey

 

 

himself as an academic leader. He served
a distinguished three years in the Navy
in the Pacific Theater of War, and since
his return to civilian life he has become
a church and business leader, who found-
ed and operates his own insurance agency.
In alumni affairs, Rodney is an Alumni
Trustee, vice-president of the Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni Association, and a
past president of the Atlanta Washington
and Lee Alumni Association. All of Rod-
ney’s experience and interests enable him
to offer leadership in civic life.

1948

MARRIED: JAMEs ‘THOMAS MCKINSTRY
and Jane Carol Edwards were married
on August 26, 1961, in Wilmington, Dela-
ware. Mrs. McKinstry is a member of the
faculty of Warner Junior High School
in Wilmington, and Jim is associated with
the law firm of Richards, Layton, and
Finger.

RicHARD W. Lowery. was transferred in
September from the New York office

34

of the American Surety Company to the
Western Regional Office of the firm, lo-
cated in Chicago. Dick is the Bond Claim
Superintendent and is responsible for
twenty-three states.

1949

The United States Instrument Corpora-
tion promoted Jack M. PEyTON from sales
engineer to switchboard sales manager.
Jack joined USI in 1955 after four years
as central office supervisor with the Lex-
ington, Virginia, Telephone Company.

H. GARNETT ScoTT, who has been prac-
ticing law in Woodstock, Virginia, has
been appointed assistant U.S. attorney for
the Western District of Virginia. He will
serve in this office with another Wash-
ington and Lee graduate, Larry Mus-
grove, whose appointment had been an-
nounced a few days earlier. Garnett has
also served as assistant county and ju-
venile and domestic relations court judge
for Shenandoah County.

HENRY M. BARKER has recently moved
from Memphis to Knoxville, Tennessee,

where he is in charge of Claims in East
Tennessee for The Home Insurance Com-

pany.

Effective October ist, WILLIAM HUDSON
LEEDY was appointed general counsel and
secretary of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Kansas City. Earlier this year Bill was
appointed to the Kansas City Board of
Police Commissioners and served as board
treasurer, but he has resigned this posi-
tion in order to fill the office with the
Federal Reserve Bank.

CARLTON D. JOHNSON has recently been
named District Manager for Shampaine
Industries, Inc., manufacturers of major
hospital equipment. His district will in-
clude the states of Delaware, Maryland
and Virginia. Carlton and Mrs. Johnson
were recently on a vacation trip to the
British West Indies. While at the Grand
Bahama Hotel they met Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Early, ’39, of Louisville, Kentucky,
who were vacationing there also.

1950

MARRIED: FRANKLIN STUART PEASE, Jr.,
and Jeanette Chadwick Uzzell were mar-
ried in Asheville, North Carolina, on Aug-
ust 19, 1961. Lin is with the Union Bag
Camp Corporation of Franklin, Virginia.

RoLtotrpH B. DAVENPORT, III, has been
elected president and treasurer of the
Krystal Company, a firm operating sev-
enty-two restaurants in nineteen cities in
eight southern states. Rody joined the

' Krystal Company in 1950, and later that

year was elected a vice-president, contin-
uing in that capacity until this present
promotion. In addition to his position
with the restaurant firm, Rody is a di-
rector of the American National Bank
and Trust Company, the Fleetwood Cof-
fee Company, and the Volunteer State
Life Insurance Company, and is a trus-
tee of the McCallie School.

RONALD E, Levick was made a general
partner in Joseph Mayr and Company,
members of the New York Stock Ex-
change, on September 7th. Ron has been
in the brokerage business for a few years.
He and his wife, Judith, have a son,
Stephen, and a daughter, Jill, and they
make their residence in Woodmere, New
York.

The Virginia Division, United Daughters
of Confederacy, awarded to MARION Gor-
DON ROBERTSON the Cross of Military Ser-
vice, a high UDC honor. Pat’s father, Sen-
ator Willis Robertson, received this
award in 1940 for his service in World
War I. Pat is living in Portsmouth, Vir-
ginia, where he has established a Chris-
tian and cultural television and radio en-
terprise for the Norfolk area.

BRooKINs ‘TAYLOR has opened offices in
Bluefield, West Virginia, for the prac-
tice of Internal Medicine, after complet-
ing an internship at Vanderbilt Hospi-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

tal and a three-year residency at the Uni-
versity of Virginia Hospital where he was
chief medical resident. During his resi-
dency, Brookins had special training in
the field of diabetes and in arthritis and
chronic diseases.

The proprietor of ‘The Golden Nugget,
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, II, dispenses excel-
lent food in this spacious and unique
restaurant in Frontier Town near Ocean
City, Maryland. Bill has worked in every
capacity in the hotel’ business, from wine
steward to banquet chairman, as prepara-
tion for his present position. In its decor,
in the food served, and in a floor show,
the Golden Nugget achieves the spirit of
the Old West which is exemplified for
visitors to “Frontier Town.’ This nov-
el development is owned and managed by
WILLLIAM Pacy, II, ’50.

1951

BORN: PETER EDWARD FORKGEN and _ his
wife, Julia, announce the birth of a son,
William Ogden, on July 27, 1961. Pete
is with the Geology Department of the
Mene Grande Oil Company, Apartado 45,
Barcelona, Venezuela.

WESLEY GREGORY BROWN has been award-
ed the professional designation of Char-
tered Life Underwriter by the American
College of Life Underwriters.

The securities firm of Goodbody & Com-
pany of New York has appointed HERBERT
G. McKay co-manager of its ‘Tampa,
Florida, office. Herbert has been assistant
manager since 1957. He has also been
made a director of the newly established
Berkeley private school in ‘Tampa.

FREDERIC J. AHERN is now president of
Unicorp of Canada, Ltd., with offices in
Montreal, Canada.

In October THE Rev. THomas C. DAVIs
became the rector of the Church of Our
Saviour in Roslindale, Massachusetts.

Joun K. BoarpMAN, Jr., has been named
president of Sam Moore Furniture In-
dustries, Incorporated. John has _ been
serving as vice-president and general man-
ager of Moore of Bedford, Inc., the firm ’s
largest manufacturing unit located at
Bedford, Virginia. He now succeeds Mr.
Samuel S. Moore, the founder of the
firm and president since 1940. Under
John’s management the Bedford plant has
announced completion of a large expan-
sion program. John’s wife is the former
Marilyn Moore, daughter of the found-
er of the firm.

1952

MARRIED: Henry I. WILLETT, JR., was
married to Miss Mary Madison ‘Turner
on June 16th in the First Baptist Church

 

 

m JOSEPH H. REESE, JR., '50, is presi-
dent of the J. H. Reese, Jr. & Co.,
Inc., which has just been estab-
lished as a general agency of the
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insur-

ance Co. in Philadelphia.
Reese received his Chartered
Life Underwriter designation in

FALL 1961

1955, is a Life and Qualifying
member of the Million Dollar
Round Table, served three years
as a member of the Executive Com-
mittee of the Philadelphia Estate
Planning Commission, and has re-
ceived the National Quality Award
each of the seven years in which he
has been eligible.

Active in industry and commun-
ity affairs, Mr. Reese is immediate
past president of the Philadelphia
Chapter of the American Society of
Chartered Life Underwriters, and
is currently serving as a member of
the Query Board of the national
Society. He is chairman of the
Qualification Procedures Commit-
tee of the Million Dollar Round
Table and is a member of the city,
state and national associations of
Life Underwriters.

He is a veteran of the U.S. Air
Force in which he served as a ist
Lieutenant of Intelligence. Reese
lives with his wife and two chil-
dren in Rydal, Pennsylvania.

 

Hucu C. NEwTon, ’52

in Richmond. The wedding party in-
cluded a number of Washington and Lee
alumni among whom were GIDEON STIEFF,
52, Bos Cross, 54, and Dr. MILTON
CHALKLEY, ‘52, who were ushers.

HucH Curtis Newton has joined Rey-
nolds Metals Company in Richmond, Vir-
ginia, aS manager, public relations ser-
vices. For the past two years Hugh has
been assistant director of public rela-
tions for Rockwell Manufacturing Com-
pany in Pittsburgh. Previously he was an
account executive with a Pittsburgh pub-
lic relations agency, editor of the news
service at Carnegie Institute of Technol-
ogy, and a reporter for the Danville Bee.

The nomination of HArry G. CAMPER, JR.,
by President Kennedy to the office of

 

HENRY L. CAMPER, 52

35

 

CLass NOTES

United States attorney for the southern
district of West Virginia was confirmed
by the Senate, and he assumed the duties
of this important post on November 1st.
Harry is a life-long resident of Welch,
West Virginia, and has been actively en-
gaged in the practice of law there since
his graduation. Since 1958, he has been
prosecuting attorney of McDowell Coun-
ty. As United States attorney his jurisdic-
tion will be over twenty-five counties in
the southern district of West Virginia.
His activity in community affairs includes
the past-presidency of the West Virginia
Junior Chamber of Commerce, the chair-
manship for the Red Cross and the Heart
Fund Drives, and service in a number of
fraternal organizations. He is well-known
in his county as an athletic official and
has worked several games in recent years.
WILLIAM M. CANBY is now associated
with the firm of Miller and Miller in the
general practice of law in Rockville,
Maryland.

Handcrest, Inc., of Seattle, Washington,
has elected RAyMoND W. HAMAN as sec-
retary. Handcrest markets products made
by the sightless. Raymond has served on
the board of trustees of this organiza-
tion since 1957. He is a partner in the
law firm of Evans, McLaren, Lane, Pow-
ell, and Beeks in Seattle.

JoHN L. Bow Les has been associated with
the municipal bond department of Folger,
Nolan, Fleming-W. B. Hibbs & Company
of Washington, D.C. John was formerly
with the Chesapeake & Potomac Tele-
phone Company.

1953

MARRIED: HENRY WOODFIN GRADY, JR.,
and Matilde Anne Farrell were married
on September 16, 1961, in the Cathedral
of Christ the King in Atlanta, Georgia.

BORN: RoBertT HENRY WARREN, JR., and
Elissa Warren announce the birth of a
son, Richard Gillert, on July 7, 1961.

BORN: Hucu S. GLicksTrEIN and Mrs.
Glickstein announce the birth of a daugh-
ter, Leslie, on October 13, 1961. Hugh is
associated with the law firm of Glickstein,
Crenshaw, Glickstein, & Hulsey in Jack-
sonville, Florida. He and Mrs. Glickstein
have two sons also, Gregg and Cary Doug-
las.

BORN: Loyp LyNwoopd WILKINSON and
Mrs. Wilkinson announce the birth of
their second daughter, Laura Lynn, on
September 24, 1961. Loyd is employed
by Deering Milliken Research Corpora-
tion in Spartanburg, South Carolina.

BORN: Ropert S. GoupsmirH, Jr., and
his wife, Isabel, announce the birth of a
son, Alan Houston, on October 15, 1961.
Bob is an attorney in Roanoke, Virginia.

36

BORN: WILLIAM L. JOHNSON, Jr., and
Mrs. Johnson announce the birth of their
second daughter, Margarett Campbell, on
August 18, 1961.

EpcAR W, SPENCER, associate professor of
geology at Washington and Lee, has been
elected a counselor for the Yellowstone-
Bighorn Research Association. This as-
sociation is a non-profit educational or-
ganization engaged in teaching and re-
search on the geology of the Northern
Rockies. Edgar has done extensive re-
search in the geology of this locale.

1954

MARRIED: RENO Harp, an assistant to
the attorney-general for the State of Vir-
ginia, was married on April 22, 1961, to
Miss Ann Dudley George Hagerty. The
ceremony was performed in St. Stephens
Church in Richmond. Reno has been with
the Attorney-General’s Office since 1959.

MARRIED: Cart D. SwANson and Janice
Clair Stoep were married August gist in
Ludington, Michigan.

BORN: DAvip PIERSON Comecys, Jr., and
Mrs. Comegys announce the birth of a
son, David Pierson Comegys, III, born
on August 28, 1961. David is the associate
rector of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church in
Shreveport, Louisiana.

JASON B. SowELL, Jr., has announced his
association in the partnership of Edwards,
Fortson, Sowell, and Akin for the prac-
tice of law in Dallas, ‘Texas. Jason is also
the president of the Dallas alumni chap-
ter.

GroRGE W. FELLOws has been appointed
Manager of the Washington, D.C., office
of Francis I. duPont & Company. George
had previously been the assistant manager

 

GEORGE W. FELLOWS, 54

of the firm’s Philadelphia office. He joined
Francis I. duPont & Company in 1957,
following two years of Army service.

Joun G. O’BriEN has taken a position in
the ‘Trust Department of the Chase Man-
hattan Bank.

Roanoke attorney, LAWRENCE C. Mus-
GROVE, has been appointed Assistant U.S.
Attorney for the Western District of Vir-
ginia. Larry, immediate past president
of the Young Democratic Club and a
member of the Roanoke City Democratic
Committee, has practiced with the law
firm of Martin, Martin, and Hopkins in
Roanoke since 1954.

SAMUEL Louis DaAvipson has announced
the merger of his law firm of Davidson
and Cutler with the law offices of Jacobi
and Jacobi. Under the name of Jacobi,
Davidson, and Jacobi the firm will con-
tinue the practice of patent, trademark,
and copyright law in Washington, D.C.
‘The two offices, in merging, also announce
their association with a Washington and
Lee graduate of the class of 1954, ROBERT
BENNETT JACOBI who was formerly trial
attorney, Federal Communications Com-
mission.

1955

MARRIED: BRIAN HAMMOND SHANLEY
and Virginia Lorraine Henry were mar-
ried on July 22, 1961, at St. Mary’s Cath-
olic Church in Morrison, Illinois.

MARRIED: ROBERT MILLER CULLERS was
married to Shamsi Djavaheri on Septem-
ber goth in Tokyo, Japan. The bride is
from ‘Teheran, Iran, but for the past two
years she has been secretary to the Iranian
Ambassador to Japan. While a student
in journalism in the Overseas ‘Training
Program of Syracuse University in Japan,
Bob is a field representative of the Japan
Society in New York and teaching Eng-
lish to Japanese instructors of English
in ‘Tokyo. In addition he has appeared on
television in four Japanese movies, has
been a reporter for a Japanese newspaper,
has published magazine articles, and has
just completed a study on what happens
to Japanese Fulbright scholars after they
return to Japan from the United States.
The couple will spend six months in
Hong Kong where Bob will work on the
editorial staff of Asia Magazine, and at
the conclusion of this work they will re-
turn to this country.

After receiving a law degree from the
University of Michigan, Roperrt ALLEN
PFAFF has returned to South Bend, In-
diana, where he will practice with the
law firm of Oare, Thornhill, McGill &
Deahl. Bob has been formally admitted to
practice before the Indiana Supreme
Court.

The reading clerk of the Ohio House of
Representatives, GERARD WAYNE FEE, has
just returned from England after grad-
uating from Oxford University, The

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Queen’s College. Jerry received two Ful-
bright scholarships, enabling him to study
for four years in Great Britain.

The appointment of J. HArpIN Marion,
III, as an assistant U.S. attorney in Bal-
timore was announced recently.

The Trust Company of Georgia has pro-
moted JOHN WADE STACKHOUSE to an as-
sistant treasurer in the Atlanta division of
the bank. Jack earned his master’s degree
in business administration at Harvard in
1957. In a case study program conducted
by the southeast chapter of Robert Morris
Associates, he won first prize.

After receiving an M.D. degree from
Tulane University School of Medicine
in 1960, JOE WARREN CHAMBERLAIN has
begun his specialty training in general
surgery at the Oschner Medical Founda-
tion in New Orleans.

1956

MARRIED: JoHN MITCHELL ELLIS and
Jacqueline Betz were married in August,
1961. John was awarded a bachelor of
architecture degree from M.1I.T. in Sep-
tember.

MARRIED: JEAN-MARIE GRANDPIERRE Was
married September 2, 1961, to Miss Anne
Boulard. The ceremony was performed
by Canon Paul Carriere, Arch-minister of
Notre Dame d’Epernay in the Parish
Church of Saint-Briac-sur-Mer. The new
couple will reside in Paris, France.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Assotr of
Lynchburg, Virginia, announce the birth
of their second son, Mark Harrison, on
August 11th. Rud is a salesman for Mead
Board Sales, Incorporated, in Virginia,
West Virginia and North Carolina.

BORN: HEADLEY S. WHITE, JR., and his
wife, Priscilla, announce the birth of
their second son, Alexander Stapler, born
on September 18, 1961. Headley is a medi-
cal officer in the Navy on the USS Cal-
vert, stationed in San Diego. He received
his M.D. degree from Temple University
in 1960.

BORN: CHARLES A. MACINTOSH and_ his
wife, Elizabeth, announce the birth of a
son, William Archibald MacIntosh, on
August 6th at Lankenau Hospital in
Philadelphia. Charles is a Resident in
Administration at Lankenau Hospital and
is also a candidate for the degree of Mast-
er of Public Health in the Yale Medical
School Program in Hospital Administra-
tion.

Jor. Davip BENNETT is now vice-president
and assistant general manager of the
Saint Paul Union Stockyards Company, in
South St. Paul, Minnesota.

DEDERICK C. Warp, III, is now the Geol-
ogy Librarian with the University of Colo-
rado at Boulder.

WILLIAM CLARENCE NORMAN, JR., senior
credit analyst of the First National Bank

FALL 1961

in Dallas, has been elected by the board
of directors to the position of assistant
cashier.

Having completed the requirements for
the degree of Doctor of Education at
Duke University, SAMUEL A. SYME, Jr., is
currently serving as an instructor in the
Department of Education at Duke where
he is associated with the Cooperative
Program in Teacher Education, a fifth
year teacher training plan supported by
a grant from the Ford Foundation.

1957

MARRIED: CHARLES CARTER KANNAPELL
and Patricia Mudd were married on Sep-
tember 23, 1961, in La Plata, Maryland.
They will make their home in Washing-
ton, D.C., where Charles is connected
with the American Air Filter Company.

MARRIED: LEONARD E. GOODMAN and
Carolyn Dean Rothschild were married
on October 15, 1961, in Baltimore, Mary-
land.

MARRIED: Puitie R. CAMPBELL mar-
ried Sylvia McCormick of Tulsa on June
23, 1961. She attended Mills College for
three years and will graduate from Tulsa
University next spring with a degree in
commercial art. Phil has law offices in
Tulsa, Oklahoma.

MARRIED: DANA Curtis was married
August 25 to Miss Sumer Ertur, who
was born in Istanbul, Turkey. The Cur-
tises live in Memphis where she has been
taking voice culture for several years.

BORN: WALTER C. CREMIN, Jr., and his
wife, Carol, announce the birth of a
son, Walter C. Cremin, IIJ, on July 20,
1961, in San Angelo, Texas. A claim agent
for State Farm Insurance Company, Wal-
ter covers twenty-one counties.

BORN: WILLIAM JAcosB LEMON and Mrs.
Lemon announce the birth of a son, Wil-
liam ‘Tucker, on August 11, 1961. They
also have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth,
born on June 12, 1960.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THoMAs C.
BROYLES announce the birth of their
second daughter, Anne Walker. Tom is
a partner in the law firm of Brydges
and Broyles. He and Mrs. Broyles, the
former Miss Betsy Fraley of Cleveland,
Virginia, and their two daughters live
at Virginia Beach.

JeB ROSENBROOK has joined the Los An-
geles office of Foote, Cone & Belding Ad-
vertising Agency. Jeb and his wife are
living in Los Angeles.

WARREN GOODWYN is now serving as Law
Clerk for the Supreme Court of Alaba-
ma in Montgomery, Alabama.

1958

MARRIED: JAMES MILLER BROWN and
Elizabeth McAlpin Froment were married
in Convent, New Jersey, on August 19,

1961. Jim is associated with Spencer
Trask and Company in New York.

MARRIED: Harry EDGAR BRUNETTE, JR.,
and Joan Marilyn Forsell were married on
September 2, 1961, at the Church of the
Redeemer in Chestnut Hill, Massachu-
setts.

BORN: CHARLES E. Notte, III, and Mrs.
Nolte announce the birth of a daughter,
Linda Susan, born on August 18, 1961.
The Noltes also have a son, David, who
is three years old. Charles is working as
salesman and the assistant retail super-
visor for Walter Leaman Company, Food
Broker, in Washington, D.C.

BORN: Tuomas Fitcu Kine, Jr., and Mrs.
King announce the birth of a son,
Thomas Fitch King, III, on January 26,
1961. ‘Tom recently returned to Jackson-
ville, Florida, to live after completing a
three-year tour of duty with the Marines.
He is presently in the mortgage depart-
ment of the firm of Kirbo, Mills & Mc-
Alphin, Inc., in Jacksonville.

On September 24th, WitLiAM RICHARD
GOODMAN, JR., was ordained to the Pres-
byterian ministry and installed as _pas-
tor of McDowell and Williamsville
Churches in Bath and Highland Counties,
Virginia. After receiving his degree from
Washington and Lee, Bill studied at
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond,
and the University of Edinburgh, Scot-
land. He is married to the former Miss
Martha Kessler, and they are the par-
ents of a son, William Richard Goodman,
III.

RicHarpD D. Haynes has been appointed
Assistant Secretary of Electro-Science In-
vestors, Inc., Dallas, Texas. Electro-Science
Investors, Inc., is one of the nation’s
largest small business investment com-
panies with major interests in electronics
and applied sciences fields. Dick was most
recently a junior partner in the law firm
of Rainey, Flynn, & Welch in Oklahoma
City.

SHELDON CLARK is working in the Adver-
tising Promotion Department of Reader’s
Digest in the New York office.

Following a family tradition, ALBERT
STEVES, IV, is manager of Ed Steves &
Sons, Sunset Yard, San Antonio, Texas.
‘The Steves men have left their imprint on
the lumber business in Texas for five
generations, and their company is the
oldest building material firm in Texas.

RoBERT H. LARUE, JR., is engineer officer
aboard the Destroyer U.S.S. Eaton (DDE
510). Employed in anti-submarine war-
fare, the home port of the ship is Nor-
folk, Virginia.

At the National Conclave held in New
Orleans, THEODORE G. RICH, JR., was
named National President of the Pi Tau
Pi Fraternity. The social and_philan-
thropic fraternity has chapters in 18
cities for men of the business world. Also

37

 

LIEUTENANT NEIL BENNY, ’59, with COMMANDER LEE SPAULDING, ’40.

elected as National Treasurer was ‘Ted’s
classmate, WILFRED ‘“‘BuppY’” KULLMAN,
Jr. Ted is manager of the Men’s Store of
Gimbel’s Cheltenham and resides in Dres-
her, Pennsylvania.

1959

MARRIED: EpGAR MILLER BABER and
Cary Ellen White were married on No-
vember 4, 1961, at St. John’s Episcopal
Church in Bedford, Virginia.

MARRIED: Amzt GODDEN BARBER, JR.,
and Jane Parker Andrews were married
on August 26, 1961, in Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

BORN: To Epwarp D. “Corkirz” Bris-
CoE, Jr. and Mrs. Briscoe a daughter,
Kathryn Lindsay, on July 24, 1961. The
Briscoe family live in Louisville, Ken-
tucky.

DanieEL M. Dob is now with the Amer-
ican Security & Trust Company in Wash-
ington, D.C.

Having joined Esso Standard, Division
of Humble Oil and Refining Company
in Roanoke in 1959, James A. Woop has
been promoted to sales representative for
the Covington, Clifton Forge and Lexing-
ton area. Jim is married to the former
Dorothy Leach and they now reside in
Covington, Virginia.

Neitz BENNEY, Lt. j.g. has served aboard
the anti-submarine aircraft carrier USS
Wasp for the last year with gunnery
officer Commander LEE SPAULDING, Class
of 1940. Neil has reported to the Officer’s
Candidate School in Newport, Rhode
Island, where he is to be an instructor.

JOHN H. Borcur received his M.A. degree
in Psychology from the college of Wil-
liam and Mary in June, 1961. He is
married to the former Patricia Bayer of
Jackson Heights, New York, and_ the

38

couple announce the birth of a daughter,
Patty Bea, born December, 1960. John is
presently at the University of Arizona
where he is working towards his Ph.D.

degree.
1960

MARRIED: RicHARD MARVIN WRIGHT,
Jr., and Mary Frances Ailstock were mar-
ried October 7, 1961, in the Old Pres-
byterian Meeting House in Alexandria,
Virginia. The couple will reside in Alex-
andria where Richard is associated with
The Journal Newspapers of Northern
Virginia.

MARRIED: DAvis REED was married to
Nancy Ward on August 19, 1961, in Ster-
ling, Illinois. Nancy was graduated from
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College this
last June. Davis is serving as ASW of-
ficer aboard the USS Carpenter an anti-
submarine destroyer based at Pearl Har-
bor, and the couple is living in Honolulu.

MARRIED: ArteL PREscoTT ROWE and
Jane Fielding Fenlon were married on
September 2, 1961, at the R. E. Lee Me-
morial Episcopal Church in Lexington,
Virginia. The couple will live in Lexing-
ton, where Pres is assistant director of
information services at Washington and
Lee.

MARRIED: RicHARD ABERSON was mar-
ried August 27th to Miss Bonnie Rovics, a
graduate of Mary Washington College.
Rich is a second year law student at
Washington University Law School in
St. Louis, Missouri. He and Bonnie reside
in Olivette where she is a seventh grade
teacher of general science.

MARRIED: WiL.LiAM JENKINS GiBBs and
Penelope Jen Morton were married on
August 19, 1961, in St. James Episcopal
Church in New York City. The couple
will live in Charleston, South Carolina.

MARRIED: PAUL BARGAMIN, III, and
Roberta Joan Nelson were married on
July 28, 1961, in Lexington, Virginia.
Joan is the daughter of Dr. Rowland
Nelson, of the English Department of
Washington and Lee, and Mrs. Nelson.

BORN: WILLIAM FREDERICK ROBERTSON,
III, and his wife, Merry, announce the
birth of a daughter, Elizabeth Burns, on
June 18, 1961. Bill is employed as a
training supervisor by the J. P. Stevens
Company and is living in Greer, South
Carolina.

BORN: RIicHARD and Lots COHEN are par-
ents of a daughter, Dale Beth, born
September 28th. The Cohens reside in
Elkins Park, Pa.

A end Lt. in the Army, JAY B. Epperson
is receiving a 24-week course of instruc-
tion in the French language at the Army
Language School, Monterey, California.

Commissioned Ensign, U.S.N.R., upon
graduating March, 1961, from Officer
Candidate School in Newport, Rhode
Island, WiLLIAM M. Gipson is now serv-
ing on the staff of the Commander, Fleet
Air Wing Atlantic, at the Naval Station
in Norfolk, Virginia.

Admitted to the Florida Bar last August,
Davin W. PALMER, II, has set up his
offices with Atorney Earl R. Duncan in
St. Andrew, Florida. .

GORDON E. ROUNDTREE recently returned
to Berlin after participating with other

‘personnel from 6th Infantry in a four

week field training exercise in Wild-
flecken, Germany.

1961

MARRIED: WILLIAM MACKWELL STOREY
and Judith Bria were married on Sep-
tember 2, 1961, in Pound Ridge, New
York. ‘The bride was graduated in June
from Randolph-Macon Woman’s_ Col-
lege. The couple will live in New Or-
leans where Bill will do graduate work
at Tulane University.

MARRIED: CHESTER BRUCE BARTELS and
Vickey Dunton Spencer were married on
September 2, 1961, at St. Michael’s Epis-
copal Church, Marblehead, Massachusetts.

MARRIED: Roserr S. DIEHL and Max-
ine Humphrey of Buena Vista, Virginia,
were married in Lexington on August 21,
1961, at “Mulberry Hill” where Bob had
made his home while attending Washing-
ton and Lee. The couple is living at 2243
West Grace Street in Richmond, where
Bob is employed as a city desk reporter
by the Richmond Times-Dispatch.

MARRIED: JouN MALCOLM BROWNLEE,
Jr., and Sarah Jane Hale were married on
September 2, 1961, in the Presbyterian
Church of Gordonsville, Virginia. The
couple will live in Richmond where
Malcolm will attend Union Theological
Seminary.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CLareL B. Mapes
announce the birth of a son, Christopher
Bowman Mapes, born August 1, in Tulsa,
Oklahoma. “Bo” is a lieutenant with the
7ist Artillery which is stationed in Ger-

many near Heilbronn. Mrs. Mapes and
son, Chris, expect to join “Bo” as soon
as housing is available.

NicHoLas H. Ropricurz has been appoint-
ed United States commissioner for lower
Delaware to succeed his brother, Charles
Conway Rodriguez, who was killed in May
as he was repairing his automobile. Nick’s
duties will primarily concern Dover Air
Force Base, a government installation re-
quiring federal jurisdiction, but he will
also work on other federal cases in the
lower part of Delaware. In order to as-
sume this post, Nick will give up a
scholarship for graduate work at the
University of Virginia and also an as-
signment to teach one course at Washing-
ton and Lee during the coming year. He
was graduated in June with high honors,
having received the John W. Davis Award
with the distinction of being first in his
graduating class.

As a first year law student, MICHAEL F.
MEADE entered the Faculty of Law at Mc-
Gill University in Montreal, Canada, in
September.

NORBERT IRVINE began work this fall on
an M.F.A. degree at Claremont Graduate
School in Claremont, California.

CourTNEY R. Mauzy, Jr., was awarded a
$4,200 fellowship for two years of study
in the University of Virginia’s school of
business administration. The fellowship
was made possible by a grant from the
United States Steel Foundation to the
University,

HUGH VERNON WHITE, Jr., is employed in
Richmond by the Virginia Commission on
Constitutional Government.

FRANK B. WOLFE, III, completed the eight-
week field artillery officer orientation
course at The Artillery and Missile
School, Fort Sill, Oklahoma, in October.

JAMEs W. SuHucart, III, completed the
orientation course at The Infantry School,
Fort Benning, Georgia, recently.

 

1896

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HArtLow, 87, life-long
printer, editor, teacher, and owner of the
Lexington Gazetie for the past 37 years,
died on September 13, 1961. During his
student days, Mr. Harlow was on the

FALL 1961

board of the Southern Collegian, editor of
the Calyx, and editor of the Ring-tum
Phi. This experience in journalism led
him to adopt newspaper work and print-
ing as a career which took him to West
Virginia and then to Roswell, New Mex-
ico, where he established a printing com-
pany and a weekly newspaper, the Ros-
well Tribune. Mr. Harlow returned to
Lexington, and after both teaching at
Washington and Lee and working for
the Gazette and the Rockbridge County
News, he acquired the Lexington Gazette
in 1924. Under Mr. Harlow’s direction,
the Gazette improved in format and in
the quality of editorship. Mr. Harlow
was an eminent citizen of Lexington, in-
fluential in community and church affairs
and respected by the townspeople.

1899

Ewinc Davipson SLOAN died in Jackson,
Mississippi, on October 20, 1961. Mr.
Sloan’s career was principally with vari-
ous railroads, such as the Great Northern,
the L. & N., and the N. CG. & St. L. After
World War I, in which he was a Com-
mander of a Company of Engineers in
France, Mr. Sloan was in the mining busi-
ness in Kentucky. He later returned to
Mississippi where he served as District
Engineer with the FWA in charge of
operations in Mississippi. While a student
at W. & L., Mr. Sloan was the recipient
of several scholarships, was president of
the Athletic Association, a member of
the Varsity football team, and rowed in
1899 with the Harry Lee Boat Crew.

Dr. FRANcIs LESLIE HARVEY, gO, a practic-
ing physician in Arlington, Texas, for
sixty years, died in Arlington in July,
1961. Dr. Harvey came to Arlington in
1898 and was a local surgeon for the
Texas and Pacific Railroad since 1903,
and also served as physician for the Arl-
ington Downs Race Track and for the
Arlington State College and Arlington
Home for the Aged Masons.

Rocer Way es Harrison, former mayor
of Greensboro, North Carolina, died on
August 31, 1961. Mr. Harrison came to
Greensboro in 1906 to begin his law prac-
tice, which he continued, in addition to
serving several terms as mayor, until three
years ago. A large legal practice involv-
ing probate and equity work on titles
and estates brought him into contact
with many real estate, title, and insur-
ance companies. Mr. Harrison was a past
president of Kappa Alpha Fraternity, a
member of the North Carolina State Bar
Association, and a member of the Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni Association.

1904

RosBerTt LEE KoLp, former superintend-
ent for the General Supply and Construc-
tion Company of York, Pennsylvania, died
on August 19, 1961. Mr. Kolb made his
home in Frederick, Maryland.

1910

CHARLES J. ELLISON, well-known retired
school teacher, sports enthusiast and writ-
er, died August 29 in Waynesboro, Vir-
ginia, after a long illness. A native of Vir-
ginia, he graduated from Fishburne Mili-
tary School where he later became an in-
structor of English for a number of years
in the 1920’s. He also taught at Green-
briar Military School, Fork Union Mili-
tary Academy, Edgar’s School for Boys in
Montgomery, Alabama, and Horner Mili-
tary Academy of Charlotte, North Caro-
lina. He returned to Fishburne Military
School in 1940 as head of the English
Department and retired in 1959. Among
other activities Mr. Ellison was an in-
surance representative, a highway con-
struction official and a writer of short
stories and poetry.

1912

CHARLES LEE ORDEMAN of Westport, Con-
necticut, died on May 18, 1961. Mr. Orde-
man was the retired vice-president of the
Mead Sales Company of New York and
had been with this paper sales firm for
twenty years before retiring eight years
ago. He was a member of the board of
directors of the YMCA of Westport, treas-
urer of the local Red Cross Chapter, and
a vestryman at the Christ and Holy
Trinity Episcopal Church.

A leader in the dental profession, Dr.
WILLIAM NEwTon Hopckin died Friday,
September 8th, in a local hospital in
Warrenton, Virginia. Dr. Hodgkin was a
past president and vice-president of the
American College of Dentists and at the
time of his death was treasurer. A mem.
ber of the Board of Visitors of the Med-
ical College of Virginia, he was a fellow
of the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science. Dr. Hodgkin has
held many offices in the State Dental As-
sociation and both the American and
British Dental Associations. He was au-
thor of a number of pamphlets on den-
tistry and the history of dentistry. A di-
rector of the Fauquier National Bank of
Warrenton since 1934, he was chairman of
the board at the time of his death.

RoBertT MAson DeSHaAzo, a lawyer and
business man for half a century, died in
Washington, D.C. on October 19, 1961. In
1911 Mr. DeShazo moved to Greenville,
South Carolina, where he practiced law
until 1924. He then moved to Washing-
ton where he opened a real estate broker-
age firm. For the past decade he was as-
sociated with his son, Robert M., Jr., at
International Business Services, Washing-
ton; 2D, ©:

1913

JouNn LretcHER Crist, former president of
Southern Dyestuff Corporation of Char-
lotte, North Carolina, died on September
11, 1961, in Asheville, North Carolina.
Starting out as a chemist in Saltville, Vir-
ginia, in 1912, Mr. Crist worked with sev-

39

eral dye and chemical companies in Vir-
ginia, ‘Tennessee, and New York before
going to Charlotte, North Carolina, in
1930 as Southern sales manager of Ameri-
can Cyanamid Company in the Dyestuff
Division. In 1936 he organized the South-
ern Dyestuff Corporation, the first dye-
stuff-producing company in a textile area
of the South. The first ready-to-dye sul-
fur base dyestuffs ever produced were in-
vented and patented by Mr. Crist. He was
a sectional chairman of the American As-
sociation of Textile Chemists and Color-
ists and a member of the War Production
Board Advisory Committee during World
War II.

In 1958 Washington and Lee Univer-
sity bestowed an honorary doctor of com-
mercial science degree on Mr. Crist. His
interest in and devotion to Washington
and Lee were evidenced by his services as
a member of the Alumni Board of Trus-
tees, vice-president of the Alumni Asso-
ciation, the president of the Charlotte
Chapter of Washington and Lee Alumni.
A John L. Crist Scholarship Fund has
been established at Washington and Lee
University.

1914

Joun LAFAYETTE Baer, Jr., died on
March go, 1961, in Washington Hospital
Center, Washington, D.C. Mr. Baber
lived in Arlington, Virginia.

Dr. MALCOLM BETHEA, a dentist of Birm-
ingham, Alabama, died on September 5,
1961. Dr. Bethea was interested in ama-
teur radio and held an operator’s license
and was also quite active in the writing
of detective stories, which he successfully
published in national magazines.

1916

EpwaArp A. DONAHUE died in New Eng-
land Baptist Hospital in Boston on Oc-
tober 29, 1961, and was buried in Bel-
lows Falls, Vermont. “Jiggs” was here on
campus for Homecoming, 1958, to par-
ticipate along with other Washington and
Lee athletic greats in the celebration for
Cy Young when Cy was named to the Hall
of Fame. “Jiggs’’ was a founder of ODK.

1917

LAWRENCE DEwoopy LYLE, a Pine Bluff,
Arkansas, attorney, insurance claim ad-
juster, and leader in youth work, died
July 18, 1961. Mr. Lyle had been active
in youth work from the time of his high
school days and one of his main in-
terests concerned the Arkansas_ Boys
Training School and the program of re-
habilitation for its youth.

1920

Gus HAMMOND Forp, a Jackson, Missis-
sippi, business executive, died on July 19,
1961. Mr. Ford was chairman of the board
of the Mississippi School Supply Company

40

and also treasurer of the Office Supply
Company. He was a former president of
the Jackson Community Chest, a vice-
chairman of the city’s Appeals Review
Board, on the board of the Jackson Cham-
ber of Commerce, and has been recently
elected vice-president of the National As-
sociation of Cost Accountants.

1921

Dr. JoHN Mason BisHop of Roanoke, Vir-
ginia, died on September 11, 1961.

TORRENCE WOLFORD, a former attorney for
Veterans Administration’s Board of Vet-
erans Appeals, died in Washington, D.C.,
on October 4, 1961. Mr. Wolford retired
in September from the VA, where he had
served for thirty-five years.

GFORGE GERALD STONE, the senior surgeon
at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern,
New York, died in his office on August
1x, 1961. Dr. Stone had been practicing
in Suffern since 1932.

CARLETON ELLSWORTH JEWETT, Judge of
Traffic Court and Police Court of Rich-
mond, Virginia, died on August 24, 1961,
of a heart attack after undergoing major
surgery. Judge Jewett had served in the
Richmond municipal courts for twenty-
five years and on the City Council for
six. He was known and respected for his
fairness in helping a defendant or in
prosecuting the guilty. He was responsible
for obtaining land for Negro playgrounds
in Richmond. In 1953 he accepted an
award from the American Bar Association
for ‘outstanding progress in the improve-
ment of Traffic Court practice and pro-
cedure, 1951-52” in cities the size of
Richmond. Judge Jewett was a member of
the board of Central Methodist Church, a
member of the board of governors of the
Masonic Home of Virginia, and a vice-
president of the Association of Judges of
the County and Municipal Courts.

FE. FRANKLIN GARBER died in Fort Lauder-
dale, Florida, on July 9, 1961. Mr. Garber
was employed by the Richmond, Virginia,
Branch of Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing
Company for twenty-five years. He re-
tired in 1959 and moved to Fort Lauder-
dale.

1922

Linus Kay HERBERT Reppitt died on Aug-
ust 1, 1961, in New Orleans, Louisiana,
and was buried in Columbia, Louisiana.
Mr. Redditt was for many years with
the Board of Commissioners of the Port
of New Orleans.

Jere Prerpont Camp of Hattiesburg, Mis-
sissippi, died on October 3, 1961.

1923

Cyrus W. HALL, a lawyer for the past 35
years and a former judge of the Munici-

pal and Intermediate Courts of Charles-
ton, West Virginia, died August 21, 1961.
Before starting the practice of law, Judge
Hall taught for three years at Prince-
ton Preparatory School. Judge Hall’s fath-
er also served as judge of the Intermediate
Court, the only father and son to serve
on this court in Charleston, and_ their
portraits hang in the judge’s chambers
of Intermediate Court. Judge Hall was
active in all affairs of the alumni associa-
tion and for several years was fund agent
for his class.

1924

RussELL WARREN Hooper, president of
Palmer-Hooper Motors and the ‘Tennessee
Wine and Spirits Company, died on Au-
gust 12, 1961, in Nashville where he had
made his home. Mr. Hooper is survived
by his wife and two sons and two daugh-
ters.

1925

CLARENCE W. MEADOWS, governor of West
Virginia from 1945 to 1949, died on Sep-
tember 12, 1961. Governor Meadows
maintained business interests in Virginia
and West Virginia, although he moved
to Florida about six years ago. He began
a law practice in Beckley in 1927 and
three years later was elected to the West
Virginia House of Delegates. In 1933 he
was named County Prosecutor and served
until he was elected West Virginia attor-
ney-general in 1936. He then accepted ap-
pointment as judge of West Virginia’s 10th
Judicial Circuit. In his race for the gov-
ernorship in 1944, Governor Meadows re-
ceived, in the Democratic primary, twice
as many votes as the combined total of his
three opponents.

1934

ALFRED NEWTON EDGAR, a practicing at-
torney in Chesterfield, South Carolina, .
died July 27, 1961.

1939

JoHN CLaupE O’QuIN, JRr., died in Dallas,
Texas, on September 2, 1961.

1949

WILLIAM SIRRET ALLEN, publisher of the
Scottsville Sun, died October 12, 1961, in
Charlottesville, Virginia. He had _ been
stricken a few hours before he died dur-
ing a visit to the University. Mr. Allen
purchased the Scottsville weekly paper in
March and previously owned the Shenan-
doah Herald, of Woodstock, Virginia A
newspaper publisher for fourteen years,
he also owned several other weekly news-
papers in Virginia and North Carolina.

1953

WILLIAM ALVIN WHITNEY of Montchanin,
Delaware, died on August 7, 1961, of leu-
kemia. He was associated with the Sun
Life Assurance Company of Canada.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Lynchburg’s delegation to the freshman class included these three young men, shown here at the chapter fete in their honor. Left
to right, BERT SCHEWEL, ’41, KIiAH Forp, JR., President FRANK CALLAHAM, 52, WILLIAM ‘T. DICKSON, CLUNET PETTYJOHN, JR., and

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A Statement

The following is a statement of
ownership, management, and circu-
lation of The Alumni Magazine of
Washington and Lee University as
required by act of Congress on Au-
gust 24, 1912, as amended by the
Acts of March 3, 1933, July 2, 1946
and June 11, 1960. The Alumni
Magazine is published quarterly
and entered as second class matter
at the post office at Lexington, Vir-
ginia, September 15, 1924.

The printer is the Washington
and Lee Journalism Laboratory
Press with C. Harold Lauck as su-
perintendent. William C. Wash-
burn is the editor and_ business
manager. The address of the pre-
ceding is: Washington and Lee
Alumni, Incorporated, Lexington.
Virginia.

The owner is the Washington
and Lee University Alumni, In-
corporated, Lexington, Virginia.
There are no bondholders, mort-
gage, or other security holders. ‘The
average number of copies of each
issue of the publication during the
twelve preceding months was
10,700.

FALL 1961

Secretary ROBERT ‘TAYLOR, °44.

lumni Chapter

“Meetings

LYNCHBURG

The Board of Directors of the
Lynchburg chapter accepted the
hospitality of the Bert Schewel, ’41,
home for their freshman reception
on August 27th. President Frank
H. Callaham, Jr., ‘52, made the
arrangements for the _ entertain-
ment of the five young men who
were entering Washington and Lee
as freshmen from the Lynchburg
area. After the alumni members
greeted the parents, Mrs. Schewel
poured punch, and the accompany-
ing refreshments were served from
a beautifully decorated table.

The Lynchburg chapter is un-
usually proud of having a total of
twenty boys now on campus. Of
this number, there are eight sons
of alumni.

President

Callaham expressed

his appreciation to the recruit-
ment committee and : to the ar-
rangements committee for the suc-
cess of this very splendid reception.
‘The freshmen honored were, Mich-
ael Kirk Crabill, William Thomas
Dickson, Kiah ‘Thornton Ford, III,
Clunet Holmes Pettyjohn, Jr., and
Franklin Broaddus Reynolds, Jr.

ATLANTA

The Atlanta alumni chapter
held a meeting at the Cherokee
Country Club on September goth.
EK. S. Humphreys presided at the
business session which elected the
following new officers for the ensu-
ing year: President, Dr. W. Perrin
Nicolson, Ill, ’44; Vice-President,
Mr. fohn Hi Uheatham, [r,, . 46;
Secretary, Mr. Farris P. Hotchkiss,
5S.

Al

Plans were discussed for an early
fall meeting at which time it was
hoped that the principal speaker
could be a member of the Adminis-
tration from the University.

BALTIMORE

The Baltimore Chapter played
host to a large gathering of over
150 alumni following the W&L-
Johns Hopkins game on October
gist. Invitations were extended to
the adjoining chapters and, in spite
of rain, the reception at the Park
‘Towson Motel saw alumni repre-
sentatives from Frederick, Wil-

mington, Cumberland, and Wash-

 

ington, D.C. Many present stu-
dents who were following the Gen-
erals’ team were also on hand for
the party. John Mayhew, president
of the Baltimore Chapter, in wel-
coming the many alumni from the
surrounding chapters, paid special
tribute to his committeemen who
had made the splendid arrange-
ments. ‘The Generals’ win 38-6 ov-
er Johns Hopkins added tremen-
dously to the gaiety of the occa-
sion.

SOUTHERN OHIO

The Alumni Chapter of South-
ern Ohio entertained the local stu-
dents at a luncheon on September
5th at the University Club in Cin-

42

cinnati. Robert Cofield and Ste-
phen Hussey, new students enter-
ing the freshman class, were hon-
ored together with their parents.
The large group extended a hearty
welcome to the new members and
the new students and enjoyed
talks by the upperclassmen on the
recent changes and developments
on campus. Mr. Robert Wersel,
president of the alumni chapter,
presided over the luncheon.

WASHINGTON, D. C.

The estate of Randolph Rouse
in Alexandria, Virginia, was the
site of a reception on ‘Tuesday,
August 29th for the new freshmen

entering Washington and Lee in
September, 1961. Roughly 100
alumni and their wives gathered in
this beautiful setting to acknowl-
edge and welcome the new men
and their parents. Refreshments
were served around the swimming
pool and many of the group en-
joyed a swim. In introducing the
freshmen, President Julian Gilles-
pie, ’52, expressed on behalf of the
entire chapter a sincere welcome to
the new men and their parents.
Bill Washburn from Lexington was
on hand and together with upper-
classman Bill Outman, gave a brief
review of the first few weeks on
campus to the assembled group of
freshmen.

HOUSTON

With a program presented by
upperclass students, the Houston
Alumni Chapter entertained the
newly entering freshmen with a
social banquet on September 6th
at the Forest Club. Six freshmen to-
gether with their parents were the
honored guests and joined the
alumni in this most informative
program. Presiding over the well-
attended meeting was President
Robert W. Davis, Jr.

At a short business session which
followed the social meeting the fol-

-lowing new officers were nomin-

ated and unanimously elected: Nel-
son C. Steenland, ’42, President;

These freshmen attended the Wash-
ington, D.C., Chapter outing. Left to
right, they are B. A. LANE, JOHN
BYERS, JR., BROUGHTON EARNEST, AR-
THUR SMITH, 741, secretary BRooks
Brown, III, JAmes Lortis, III, JULIAN
GILLESPIE, ‘52, president, BRAXTON
‘Tass, Il], JEROME KAHN, and
CHRISTOPHER BONNETT.

Robert A. Mossbacher, ’47, Vice-
President; Robert I. Peeples, ’57,
Secretary- Treasurer.

ST. LOUIS

A “Welcome Freshmen Party”
was sponsored by the St. Louis
Chapter at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Les Inger in University City
on the evening of September 6th.
‘The occasion, in honor of the new
men from the St. Louis area en-
tering Washington and Lee, was a
barbecue and swimming party. A.
H. “Hap” Hamel, ‘59, president of
the chapter, presided at the func-
tion and expressed a warm wel-
come to the large group of alumni
and upperclassmen as well as the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

freshmen. Fred Webber, ’56, was in
charge of arrangements while Bob
Mendelson, ‘50, tantalized the
group with his culinary technique.
Announcement of the plans for the
future chapter programs was en-
thusiasticaly received.

BIRMINGHAM

In honor of the five entering
freshmen from their area, the
Birmingham Alumni Association
entertained alumni, undergradu-
ates and parents of the new men at
Joe’s Ranch on Tuesday, August
gist. A large group attended the
banquet to extend an enthusiastic
welcome to the new freshmen and

several short talks were made on St. Louis freshmen, seated, l-r, Davip MosBaucH, ROBERT TAYLOR, ROBERT BROOKS, JAMES
various phases of college activities. LEGG, JR., JOHN MOLYNEAUX; standing, HucH McNeEw, Jr., JAMES Woop, GEORGE SANDERS,
and GREGORY EUSTON.

 

NEW ORLEANS

The New Orleans Chapter held
a luncheon at the International
House on September 7th in honor
of the entering freshmen from the

area. A fine group of alumni to- New Orleans freshmen, I-r,
gether with several upperclassmen ee re, Poles

’ : HAGESTED, and LEE
and the new freshmen with their JOHNSON.

parents were entertained with dis-
cussions of the first few weeks of
college. Herb Jahncke, Jr., an up-
perclassman, showed colored slides
of the campus, social activities,
football games and Fancy Dress
Ball. ‘The parents of the new men
expressed appreciation to the of-
ficers for the opportunity of join-
ing in this alumni activity.

 

ROANOKE

In honor of the nine men from
the Roanoke area entering the Uni-
versity this year, the Roanoke
chapter had a luncheon in the Pan-
el Room of the Ponce de Leon Ho-
tel on Thursday, September 7th.
A large and enthusiastic group of
alumni, as well as upperclassmen
attended this meeting to welcome
the freshmen. Jack Coulter, Presi-
dent of the Roanoke Chapter, in-
troduced each of the new freshmen

and the upperclassmen in express- . .
: : PP . Birmingham freshmen, l-r, ‘TIMOTHY VANDERVER, Kirk GRIFFIN, PAUL MurpHy, BLAIN
Ing sincere welcome to each and BROWNELL, and LAURENCE HEARTBURG.

 

FALL 1961 43

 

The Roanoke Chapter entertained these future Washington and Lee men. Front row,

left to right, F. A. Stone, M. L. Wooprum, E. P. Hayes, W. D. S. LEE; back row,

WILLIAM R. HOLLAND, ’50, chapter secretary, H. W. Moore, W. K. BOLTON, W. S. SMITH,
H. B. QUEKEMEYER, and JACK B. COULTER, 49, president.

everyone. Of the nine new fresh-
men, four of them are sons of alum-

ni.
* * *

The Roanoke chapter  enter-
tained Coach Lee McLaughlin and
freshman coach Dana Swan at the
Shenandoah Country Club on Oc-
tober 10th with a special! banquet.
The stag affair was attended by a
iarge group of members who lis-
tened intently as Coach McLaugh-
lin gave highlights on the prospec-
tive season. Jack Coulter, °49, pre-
sided at the dinner and conducted
the short business meeting.

Upon request, Claude Harrison,
chairman of the nominating com-
mittee, offered the following slate
of officers for the new year: Presi-
dent, Robert S$. Goldsmith, Jr., ‘51;
Vice-President, A. Linwood Hol-
ton, Jr., 7443 Secretary- Treasurer,
William R. Holland, ’48.

The nominees were unanimously
elected and the gavel was turned
over to President Goldsmith. Also
named at this meeting was the
board of directors as follows: Gil-
bert Bocetti, 52; William A. Gib-
bons, Jr., ’21; Dr. Robert S. Hut-
cheson, Jr., 40; Joseph N. Moffatt,
46; Jack B. Coulter, °49; and Ben-
no M. Forman, ‘52.

Secretary-Treasurer Bill Holland
gave a treasurer’s report. President
Goldsmith enjoined all members

44

to attend the Homecoming foot-
ball game in Lexington on the fol-
lowing Saturday.

‘TULSA

The Tulsa chapter conducted
its fall meeting on October goth
and enjoyed vigorous talks con-
cerning football and old times
among the enthusiastic group.
Among those who attended were
three from a considerable distance:
John Maley, ’52, Okmulgee; T. J.
Hughes, ’30, Cushing; and C. Price
Berryman, ’38, Coffeyville, Kansas.

In the business session the chap-
ter elected officers as follows: Phil-
ip R. Campbell, ’57, for his second
term as president, and Eric Hu-
bert, ’51, for his second term as

ERT

vice-president for public relations.
The other officers named are Oscar
Curd, ’38, and Burt Tyler, ’57. The
meeting ended with a discussion of
the chapter’s program for the re-
cruitment for new students for
Washington and Lee for Septem-
ber, 1962.

NEW YORK

A large group of the New York
Chapter were on hand ‘Tuesday,
August 15, at the Overseas Press
Club to welcome the new freshmen
from their area. There were 21 new
men from the New York area enter-
ing Washington and Lee in Sep-
tember. Ten of these young men,
together with their parents, were
honored at a_ cocktail-reception
party where Bill Washburn, Alum-
ni Secretary, outlined what they
might expect in the first few weeks
on campus. Several upperclassmen
were also present to welcome their
new schoolmates. Alumni sons who
attended the party were Emerson
Dickman, III, Jolyon Girard, and
Richard Saunders, I11. Also among
the sons of alumni entering this
fall are Claxton E. Allen, III, and
Thomas Stover. ‘The annual affair
was a large success.

CUMBERLAND VALLEY

Joining at the Alexander Hotel
in Hagerstown, Maryland, on
Wednesday evening, August 16, 43

 

The Richmond Chapter’s luncheon was attended by these freshmen. Seated, left to

right, J. M. Stay, J. N. CarcILi, JrR., V. C. ADAMSON, JR., L. G. CRENSHAW, III, W. G.

Broappus, J. M. Morris, C. C. Bricur; standing, JOHN F. Kay, JR., ’51, treasurer, C. W.

Dickinson, IV, J. H. DEJARNETTE, A. J. T. ByRNE, RENO S. HArpP, 54, president, and
Epwarp J. McCarty, °42, vice-president.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

New officers for the Cumberland Valley Chapter were elected at the August meeting in

Hagerstown’s Hotel Alexander. Left to right, they are JAMES L. RIMLER, ’31, secretary-

treasurer; ROBERT E. CLApp, JR., ’30, outgoing president; CHARLES R. BEALL, JR. 56,
president; and J. MALCOLM MCCARDELL, °37, vice-president.

alumni and their wives of the
Cumberland Valley Chapter wel-
comed the new freshmen from their
area at a delightful banquet. Sever-
al students presently enrolled at
the University were on hand to add
to the. occasion. Bill Washburn,
who attended from Lexington, wel-
comed Robert Stauffer and gave a
short talk on the new developments
at the University with special em-
phasis on the prospects for the
football season.

At a short business meeting the
nominating committee offered the
following slate of officers and di-
rectors which was unanimously ap-
proved: President, Charles R.
Beall, Jr., °56; Vice-President, 1.
Malcolm McCardell, 37; Secretary-
Treasurer, James L. Rimler, 81,

Elected as directors were: Glenn
Shively, ’36; Samuel C. Strite, "293
Merle (G, *Kaetzel,'31; > David: G.
Simpson, ’56; Harry George, ]r.,
"36; Witham ( . Hamilton, "43;
Clyde E. Smith, Jr., ’42; Robert E.
Clapp, Jr., 30.

DELAWARE

The Washington and Lee Alum-
ni Club of Delaware held its first
Stag picnic at the Hercules Powder
Company Farm on August 24,
1961. About 25 alumni were pres-

ent, together with the studentes
in collegio. In addition, the five
students from Delaware entering
Washington and Lee this year were
guests and they were a fine group
of boys. A buffet dinner, headed by
Virginia ham and the additional
trimmings, was enjoyed, along with
the usual refreshments and _ aperi-
tifs. There was horseshoe pitching
and bull slinging, and two junior
“Generals” played catch. Bud Rob-
erson, president of the Delaware
Alumni Club, made a brief talk to
the new students, followed by a
brief panel discussion covering the
wonders of Washington and Lee for
the new students. A recording by
the Washington and Lee Glee
Club, including “The Swing’’ and
“College Friendships” furnished
inspiration for singing. Plans were
discussed for the chapter programs
for the balance of the year.

RICHMOND

A large group of alumni in the
Richmond. Chapter area met at a
luncheon in honor of the new
freshmen on Tuesday, August 29.
The affair was held in the Mark
Raleigh Hotel with the president,
Reno Harp, ’54, presiding. Of the
fourteen freshmen from the chap-
ter area, ten of the young men to-

 

gether with their fathers were
present. Ed McCarty, ’42, intro-
duced a_ resolution, which was
unanimously approved, expressing
sympathy of the entire chapter
over the death of Judge Carleton
Jewett, ‘21. A’ copy of the reso
lution was sent to the family and
appears elsewhere in this magazine.

Four present upperclassmen,
Kenneth Lane, Jr., Dave Mont-
gomery, Bob Henley, and Rosewell
Page gave short and _ interesting
talks on various phases of college
life which was of much interest to
the new freshmen as well as to the
alumni. On behalf of the chapter
and the Alumni Association, Pres-
ident Harp expressed a welcome as
well as much pride in the new
freshmen. The freshman luncheon
is an annual affair.

* * *

President Fred Cole was the hon-
ored guest and principal speaker at
the Richmond Alumni Chapter
meeting on October 20. The well
attended banquet was held in the
Richmond Room of the Hotel
Richmond, preceded by a social
hour. Reno Harp, °54, president of
the chapter, presided at the meet-
ing and presented other guests who
included Dr. John Thomas and
Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, mem-
bers of the University Board of
Trustees. Also present was Dr.
Robert Tucker, former Dean of
the University. Vice-President Ed
McCarty, ’42, gave a report on the
Student Recruitment Committee
and Secretary, C. W. “Buck” Pin-
nell, °46, presented the program
for the balance of the year, includ-
ing a large dinner-dance which is
scheduled for February 1oth.

In his address, President Cole
made a very interesting and up-to-
the-minute report on the develop-
ments on the campus not only in
terms of the physical plant but also
in terms of the student profile and
plans for the future. His remarks
were received with much enthusi-
asm and interest.

 

 

For that Sperial Christmas Gilt!

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Commemorative Plates
(Wedgwood)
Sold only in sets of eight different scenes

Price, $20.00 per set, f.0.b., Lexington, Virginia
Colors Available: Mulberry (Rose) or Blue

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

