 

THE

ASHINGTON
AND Lee
ALUMNI MAGAZINE

  

: Alumni
Conference

Issue

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Architect’s drawing of the new student activities building to be called the Early-Fielding Memorial Building. The new building will
link the existing Student Union Building on the left and Evans Dining Hall on the right.

An Expanded Student Center

ONSTRUCTION BEGAN this fall on an expanded stu-

dent center that will meet a pressing need at

Washington and Lee: more and better recreational and
social facilities for its students.

A Lexington construction firm, Charles W. Barger
& Son, submitted a low bid of $487,000 on the project,
which will involve the complete renovation of the
present two-story Student Union Building and erec-
tion of a new one-story building to link the Student
Union with the present Evans Dining Hall.

The new building will be called the Early-Fielding
Memorial Building. It was made possible by two be-
quests totaling more than $500,000, one from Mrs.
Annie Fielding Early of Washington, D.C., and the
other from her daughter, Mrs. Annie Early Fairfax of
Washington and Roanoke, Va. Both were friends and
supporters of the University for many years.

Completion of the building is expected in March,
196g. It will be the center of many of the students’ ex-
tracurricular and leisure activities. Included will be
music rehearsal and practice rooms, several meeting
rooms for student organizations, a chapel and office for

the University chaplain, a large reception lounge, a li-
brary and reading room, a tavern, and rooms for tele-
vision, billiards, cards, and ping pong.

The Executive Committee of the student body,
which administers the student government and the
honor system, will also have its meeting rooms in the
building.

The center will be supervised by a director, a new
position to be filled later. The director will have an
office in the building.

A special student-faculty committee worked for
more than a year planning what the building would
contain. The committee, working closely with Dean of
Students Edward C. Atwood, got the opinions of stu-
dents by conducting polls and talking with them.

‘Every consideration was given to providing, as far
as practical, what the students want in the way of a
student center,’ Dean Atwood said.

The University’s architects, Clark, Nexson & Owen
of Lynchburg, designed the new facilities. A New York
firm, Chandler Cudlipp Associates, Inc., is the interior
decorator.

 

 

THE

ASHINGTON
AND Lee

Editor

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 740

Managing Editor

ROMULUS ‘IT. WEATHERMAN

Editorial Assistant

Mrs. Frepd K. CARTER

THE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President
JAMES W. Priest, M.D., °43

Vice-President
‘THOMAS C. FRosT, JR., 50

Secretary
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40

Treasurer
JOHN M. Jonegs, III, ’37

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

WILLIAM C. BAKER, ’38
FREDERICK BARTENSTEIN, JR., °41
Joe F. BEAR, ’33

CHARLES F. CLARKE, JR., 38
GEORGE CraAppock, M.D., ’30
Jack L. Crist, JR., 45
WARREN H. EDWARDS, ’39
‘THOMAS C. FROsT, JR., ’50
JOHN M. Jonss, IIT, ’37
EDWARD H. OULD, ’29
FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN, ’24
JAMEs W. Priest, M.D., ’43

EDITORIAL BOARD

PAXTON DAVIS

FRANK J. GILLIAM, ’17
JAMEs W. Priest, M.D., ’43
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 740
JAMeEs W. WHITEHEAD

 

Volume 42
Number 4

December 1967

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Alumni Return, Look, Listen, and Speak Up
Who's Minding the Vault?

A Matter of Coats and Ties

‘The Alumni Write Back :

The Glee Club on ‘Tour by John Hughes

Of Deans, Dilemmas, and Double-Thinking Students
Stamps: Marshall Makes ‘Three

‘A Book for All Seasons’

Changes on the Board of ‘Trustees

Chapter News

Class Notes

In Memoriam

NO

11

13
16
18

1g

ho
ho

No
Or

 

THE COVER

Coffee and Coke breaks were frequent during the three-day Special Conference for
Alumni Chapter Representatives. The cover photograph shows the delegates during
such a break in front of Lee Chapel. Photographer John E. Hughes made the picture
through a window of the Chapel. The result is a pleasantly framed portrait of the
delegates relaxing between sessions. The next 11 pages give a summary of what went

on at the conference.

A STATEMENT

The following is a statement of the ownership, management, and circulation of the Washington and Lee University Alumni Magazine as
required by act of Congress of Aug. 24, 1912, as amended by the acts of March 3, 1933, July 2, 1946, and June 11, 1960. The Alumni Maga-
zine is published quarterly and is owned by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., and is entered as second class matter at the
Post Office in Lexington, Virginia, with additional mailing permit at Roanoke, Virginia. The printer is the Washington and Lee Journ-
alism Laboratory Press under the supervision of C. Harold Lauck. The editor and business manager is William C. Washburn. The ad-
dress of the preceding is Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. There are no hbondholers, mortgage, or other
security holders. The average number of copies of each issue during the 12 preceding months was 11,500.

Published quarterly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia. All communications and P. O. D. Forms 3579 should
be addressed to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Alumni House, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, 24450, Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Virginia, with additional mailing permit at Roanoke, Virginia.

 

 

 

Acting President William W. Pusey, III, opened the Special Conference for Alumni Chapter
Representatives by holding up a cartoon from The New Yorker and reading the caption.
(The cartoon is approximated below.) As the laughter subsided, Dr. Pusey hastened to add,
This, of course, is not the reason for your return to campus. We welcome you most heartily
and hope you will find the next few days rewarding—and fun.” And so it was as the follow-
ing pages attempt to show. There will be other conferences like it. Just as rewarding and just

as much fun.

Alumni Return,
Look, Listen,
Inquire, Spar,

And Speak Up

A Three-Day

Conference
For Chapter
Delegates

 

  

 

By Jim Stanley after a cartoon in The New Yorker

“It’s from your Alma Mater. It says the Classes from 1927 to 1936 are being re-
called because of faculty incompetence during that period.”

T WAS QUITE a weekend—those three days in early

October when a group of questing and probing
alumni returned to the campus at the invitation of the
University to find out where Washington and Lee is
today and where it is going.

There were times when the examining alumni seem-
ed to look upon the University as they might ‘Tenny-
son's flower in the crannied wall. If they could under-
stand what the University is, root and all, and all in
all, they would know what God and man is.

Whether the frank exchange of views produced such
cosmic results is uncertain. But without doubt the
soul of the University was searched and found to be,
if not absolutely spotless, anything but lost or losing.

2

Some alumni delegates went away somewhat less
than happy over the erosion of conventional dress.
Others were less than satisfied that the University is
doing all it might to make fraternities the positive
force in University life they once were. Others ques-
ioned admissions policies as perhaps being too stiff or
too lenient.

But there was a consensus at the end along these
lines: that Washington and Lee University, buffeted
by the gales of difficulty and permissiveness that are
sweeping through institutions of higher education
everywhere, is holding its own and more—mindful of
a heritage of excellence, determined to preserve its
distinctive characteristics, clinging steadfastly to a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

duty to remain one of the best liberal arts colleges
for men in the country, worthy of the support of its
alumni and friends and of the respect of everyone.

The special conference for alumni representatives
was the outgrowth of a similar conference held on
campus last year for the members of the Alumni
Board of Directors. The directors found their meeting
so helpful that they directed that alumni chapter repre-
sentatives be invited to the campus to see and hear
for themselves the conditions that prevail on campus
and what the University has in mind for the future.
The directors suggested, too, that this session be fol-
lowed by others—all to the end that direct two-way
communications between the University and its alumni
might be opened and kept open.

All 45 alumni chapters were invited to send repre-
sentatives to the October 5, 6 and 7 conference. In all,
47 delegates, many accompanied by their wives, repre-
senting 27 chapters, attended. These delegates were
specifically requested to report their findings and im-
pressions to their chapters.

The breadth of the subjects covered during the
sessions, all held in Lee Chapel, is indicated by the
University officials and faculty members who spoke
and who, in turn, were questioned (or in some cases
talked back to) by the delegates.

Speakers included Acting President of the University
and Dean of the College William W. Pusey, III; Dean
of the School of Commerce and Administration Lewis
W. Adams; Dean of the School of Law Robert E. R.
Huntley; Assistant Dean of the College William J.
Watt; Dean of Students and Chairman of the Admis-
sions Committee Edward C. Atwood; Treasurer James
W. Whitehead; Director of Admissions James D.
Farrar; Director of Financial Aid William A. Noell:
Director of Development Frank A. Parsons; Professor

FALL 1967

 

 

RicHarp Nasu (far left) presides at a special luncheon for alumni and student representatives, and the talk flew.

of English Severn P. C. Duvall; Professor of Biology
Henry S. Roberts; and Professor of Economics Charles
F. Phillips, Jr.

And at a luncheon session at Evans Dining Hall
the delegates held a no-holds-barred session with more
than go students representing every facet of student
life on campus. Student Body President Richard
Nash presided at this meeting at which no member
of the faculty or the administration was present.

But perhaps an even better indication of the kind
of information that was conveyed, or elicited, is the
following list of sample highlights:

Search for a new president—No one can say just
when a new president to succeed Dr. Fred C. Cole will
be named. The selection committee of the Board of
Trustees is evaluating a long list of likely candidates
suggested by trustees, faculty members, alumni, and
students. ‘The selection procedure may be lengthy. But
it is hoped that a new president will take office by
September, 1968. Meanwhile, the University is being
ably led by Acting President Pusey, many say brial-
liantly led.

Problems facing the University—President Cole’s
leadership laid a solid foundation for continued de-
velopment of the University, both academically and
physically. But there are problems with which the
new president and the administration will have to
grapple.

For instance, there is a widespread misconception
that Washington and Lee has all of the money that
it needs. It does need money, and it is estimated
that the University requires in the neighborhood of
$30 million to accomplish academic and physical
goals. Or in the words of Acting President Pusey:
“Like all private institutions of higher education
Washington and Lee must seek additional and sub-

3

4

 

University deans field questions from alumni. They are (left to right) Ropert E. R. HunTLEy of the Law School, Lewis W. ApAms of

the School of Commerce & Administration, WILLIAM W. Pusey, III, of the College, and WILLIAM J. WATT, Assistant Dean of the College.

stantial financial support if it is to continue to de-
velop and not to lapse into mediocrity and financial
blight.”

The Board of ‘Trustees has recognized this need in
the appointment of Mr. Frank Parsons as director of
development and Mr. Farris Hotchkiss as associate
director. Preparation is under way for an extensive
financial campaign.

A partial list of specific needs is indicative of the
University’s requirements in the years ahead: A new
gymnasium (badly needed); improved housing for stu-
dents; greater library resources and space; more space
for the School of Commerce and Administration and
the School of Law; more space for faculty offices; a
new auditorium; expansions and refinements in the
curriculum, including more independent work and
study abroad; additional help in the admissions
office; continued efforts to increase faculty salaries;
sabbatical leaves for faculty members; a reduction of
the teaching load from the prevailing 12 hours to the
more normal nine hours.

The list could be lengthened, and utimately a de-
cision will have to be made about the proper size
of Washington and Lee. The student body this year
numbers about 1,460—the largest in history—and the
pressures to grow are great.

Alumni involvement in admissions—The Univer-
sity is working on methods to use alumni more
effectively in its admissions program and may soon
inaugurate a pilot program. But there are pitfalls that
must be avoided. If an alumnus recommends a stu-
dent and he is turned down, there are hard feelings; if
an alumnus recommends against a student and he is
accepted, there is unhappiness.

Alumni sometimes tend to recommend a student on

the basis of his family’s character instead of on the
basis of the student’s individual merit. As Dean At-
wood put it: “We would be less than honest if we
didn’t admit that we are a little bit afraid of a com-
plete alumni program for admissions. A lot of schools
have started them and have gotten into a great deal
of trouble and have had to give them up. We will have
one, but we would like to make certain that we will
have the one that is best from the point of view of
Washington and Lee.

Alumni sons—The general policy is to admit appli-
cants who are well equipped to profit from what
Washington and Lee has to offer. Within the frame-
work of this general policy, the University gives prefer-
ence to sons of alumni and will always give them
preference, provided that they can do the work at
Washington and Lee.

Conventional dress—Yes, there has been an erosion
of the custom of conventional dress on campus. Uni-
versity Officials are unhappy about it. But it is a stu-
dent matter. The Executive Committee of the Student
Body, elected by the students, took the power to en-
force conventional dress away from the Assimilation
Committee. Some 5 to 10 per cent of the student body
do not wear coats and ties. But it is believed that the
g5 to go per cent cent of the student body who do
wear conventional dress would defend to the utmost
the right of the 5 to 10 per cent not to wear it. This
issue of dress produced perhaps more vehemence than
any other topic discussed during the conference.

Fraternities—No, the University is not out to abolish
fraternities. ‘(To think so is to misunderstand the issue.
There is a feeling among some faculty members that
fraternities have become a negative rather than a
positive influence on student academic life. What the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

University wants to do 1s somehow to help and en-
courage fraternities to regain the positive intellectual
influence they once exerted.

A dialogue about fraternity problems is continuous
between students and members of the faculty and the
administration to the end that fraternities might be
helped and also the University. And while the Uni-
versity is trying to help the fraternities it must con-
sider those students who are not affiliated with fra-
ternities. Thus the University is remodeling and ex-
panding the Student Union building to provide better
facilities for student organizational and social activi-
ties. ‘The new Student Union will have a tavern serving
q.2 beer,

Meanwhile, low-interest University loans may be
made to fraternities to help finance repair of their
houses, some of which have fallen into bad physical
condition. The faculty has asked for a plan of de-
ferred rush so that freshmen will be exposed to aca-
demic life first and social life second. Fraternities can
be offered help in trying to retain the interest of
Juniors and seniors who tend to drift away from the
fraternities, leaving fraternity affairs to the less mature
judgment of sophomores and pledges. The University
is aware of the importance of fraternities in housing
and feeding a large part of the student body and
of their potential to help rather than hinder the
academic progress of fraternity members. Fraternities
exist by permission of the University, and it is a
mistake to believe that the University is not interested
in their well being and has no business in trying to
help them steer correct paths.

HESE WERE but a few of the subjects covered dur-
‘Liing the conference. ‘They are mentioned here in
brief to convey some idea of the inspection and intro-
spection that occurred. Some of these topics and others
are elaborated upon elsewhere in this magazine.

The final judges of the value of the program are
the delegates themselves. And any alumnus interested
in getting firsthand evaluations of what the delegates
saw and heard on those three memorable October
days are encouraged to get in touch with them.

The delegates and the chapters represented follow:

Appalachian Chapter—Mr. Allen Harris, Jr., °24,
Johnson City, Tenn.

Arkansas Chapter—Mr. Howard 'T. Shepherd, ’4o,
Mr. Edward D. Briscoe, ’}9, and Mr. Everett Tucker,
Jr., °34, all of Little Rock.

Augusta-Rockingham Chapter—Mr. Thomas W.
Mehler, ’35, Waynesboro, Va.

Baltimore Chapter—Mr. John B. Howard, ’57, Rux-
ton, Md., and Mr. Hal C. Whitaker, ’58, Mr. Allan
J. Mead, ’58, and Mr. C. Francis Morgan, ’65, all of
Baltimore.

FALL 1967

Birmingham Chapter—Mr. Jack W. Warner, ’41,
Tuscaloosa, Ala.

Charleston, W. Va., Chapter—Mr. W. T. Brotherton,
48, Charleston, W. Va.

Charlotte Chapter—Mr. James J. White, 51, Char-
lotte, N. C.

Chicago Chapter—Mr. Gordon L. Sibley, ’s50,
Chicago, II.

Cumberland Valley Chapter—Mr. Clyde E. Smith,
‘42, Martinsburg, W. Va., Mr. James L. Rimler, ’31,
Braddock Heights, Md., and Mr. John M. McCardell,
97, Hagerstown, Md.

Danville Chapter—Judge F. Nelson Light, ’52,
Chatham, Va., Mr. T. Ryland Dodson, ’46, Danville,
Va., and Mr. S. Booker Carter, 56, Martinsville, Va.

Lynchburg Chapter—Mr. Bertram R. Schewel, ’41,
Lynchburg, Va.

Mid-South Chapter—Mr. Clinton M. Early, ’59,
Samuel B. Hollis, 51, Mr. Milburn K. Noell, ’51, Mr.
Donald A. Malmo, ’50, and Mr. W. A. Webster, ’4,
all of Memphis, Tenn.

Mobile Chapter—Mr. G. Sage Lyons, ’58, of Mobile,
Ala.

New Orleans Chapter—Mr. John H. McMillan, ’42,
and Mr. James W. Hammett, ’40, both of New Orleans.

New River-Greenbrier Chapter—Mr. C. H. (Bud)
Hill, ’54, Fayetteville, W. Va.

New York Chapter—Mr. Richard H. Turrell, ’40,
Short Hills, N. J., Mr. Paul E. Sanders, "43, White
Plains, N. Y., and Mr. Emmett W. Poindexter, ’20,
New York, N. Y.

‘Tidewater Chapter—Mr. Townsend Oast, 51, Chesa-
peake, Va.

North ‘Texas Chapter—Mr. Richard D. Haynes, 58,
Dallas, ‘Texas.

Palm Beach-Ft. Lauderdale Chapter—Mr. Manley P.
Caldwell, 58, Palm Beach, Fla.

Peninsula Chapter—Dr. Frank S. Beazlie, "40, New-
port News, Va.

Philadelphia Chapter—Mr. William J. Russell, ’57,
Malvern, Pa.

Piedmont Chapter—Mr. William E. Latture, "49,
Greensboro, N. C.

Pittsburgh Chapter—Mr. Charles G. Gilmore, ’39,
Pittsburgh, Pa.

Richmond Chapter—Mr. Robert J. Smith, ’46, Rich-
mond, Va.

Roanoke Chapter—Mr. William J. Lemon, ’57, and
Mr. Robert E. Glenn, ’51, both of Roanoke, Va.

Savannah River Chapter—Mr. H. Tudor Hall, ’6o,
Augusta, Ga.

Washington, D. C. Chapter—Mr. Arthur C. Smith,
41, and Mr. Vernon W. Holleman, Jr., 58, both of
Washington, Mr. Edson B. Olds, ’61, Springfield, Va.,
and Mr. Donald W. Sigmund, 59, Rockville, Md.

Who’s Minding
The Vault?

And What’s In It?

The Treasurer Unfurls

Figures on Finances

HE sSUCCEssoR to the late Earl S. Mattingly as
pa eae of Washington and Lee, James W.
Whitehead, told the representatives at the Special
Alumni Conference that he could well understand
why so many of them had come to the meeting:

“To see, to hear, to be reassured that Washington
and Lee University, as a private liberal arts college,
still exists.”

After all, newspapers and notable national maga-
zines have been filled recently with articles and head-
lines telling of the plight of the small liberal arts
college, citing revolution in the Ivory Tower, gaps in
the budget, soaring college costs, and the transition
of many institutions from private to public control.

And Mr. Whitehead added that alumni naturally
would be concerned about “who is minding the
vault?” now that Mr. Mattingly has passed on, con-
ceding: “I assure you that you have every reason to
ask that question. For the relatively sound financial
condition Washington and Lee enjoys today can be
attributed to a great degree to the gentleman who
for 50 years served this institution and for the last
26 was the chief guardian and custodian of its financial
assets.”

Mr. Whitehead then reported on the financial con-
dition of the University in largely statistical terms.
His report was hailed as something of a revelation by
most of the alumni delegates, many of whom said
they hoped the University would issue financial state-
ments on a regular basis. A digest of Mr. Whitehead’s
report follows:

6

 

 

ean. RR

‘TREASURER JAMES W. WHITEHEAD

Tuition—In 1937, just 30 years ago, tutition was
$275. Ten years later in 1947 it was $350. Inflation
that marked the postwar years added about $25 a year
to Washington and Lee’s tuition so that by 1957 it
stood at $600. And the climb continues at the rate
of about $100 a year. It is $1,600 this year. And it is
scheduled to hit $2,000 by 1970.

Meanwhile, the enrollment increased. It was 1,077
in 1937 and 1,167 in 1947. It dropped back in 1957 to
1,083 and began climbing again, reaching an all-time
high of 1,460 this year. The faculty increased also—
from 63 in 1937 to 73 in 1947. It went to 98 in 1957
and today stands at 123 resident teachers.

Tuition, enrollment, and the number of faculty
members are key areas in the financial picture of the
University because they are directly related to the
quality of education it offers.

Endowment—In 1937 the University’s endowment
was (in round figures) $2,900,000. In 1947 it was
$4,000,000; in 1957 it was $7,900,000; today it is $13,-
000,000. ‘This is book value. During the past 10 years,
the market value of the endowment has approximately
doubled, from about $10,000,000 in 1957 to $20,000,-
ooo today. These endowment figures do not include
funds held in trusts by others amounting to approxi-
mately $6,000,000.

Washington and Lee ranks 62nd in the country in
terms of endowment.

Budget—Washington and Lee operates on a balanced
budget. ‘This balanced budget is due to a number of
reasons, among them responsible stewardship by the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

administration, increased tuition (increases not out
of line, however, in relation to the total operational
budget), and increased support by alumni, friends,
and corporations.

The expense budget for the current year will total
$4,106,888. ‘The breakdown of expenses:

Instructional purposes (faculty salaries, depart-
mental expenses, etc.), $1,887,268 or 45.9 per cent.

Student and public services (scholarships and financ-
ial aid, student activities, infirmary, dining hall, cata-
logs, etc.), $758,623 or 18.4 per cent.

Administrative purposes (salaries of the officers,
secretaries, and office expenses), $360,477 or 8.8 per
cent.

Plant operation (maintenance, utilities, staff, build-
ing repairs, etc.) , $789,797 or 19.3 per cent.

Alumni office (salaries, the magazine, annual fund
expense, etc.), $72,000 or 1.8 per cent.

Fiscal fees, payment on loan and contingencies,
$237,807 or 5.8 per cent. ,

(Washington and Lee’s debt is $1,050,000, consist-
ing of one loan made during the construction of the
dining hall and new dormitories and added to during
the campaign for $1,500,000, owed to a Richmond
bank and the Life Insurance Company of Virginia.
The debt is paid off at the rate of $75,000 a year.)

Income breakdown:

Tuition and fees, $2,077,750 or 50.6 per cent. (Tut-
tion plays a major part of the total income budget of
most small private colleges, but it will be noted that
at Washington and Lee it remains and has remained
almost constantly at about 50 per cent of income in
relation to the total income and total expenses of the
University.)

Endowment income, $800,000 or 19.5 per cent.

Auxiliary enterprises (dormitory rental and dining
hall charges, etc.), $389,000 or 9.5 per cent.

Reserves for renovation and construction, $315,000
or 7.7 per cent.

Annual alumni giving, $250,000 or 6.1 per cent.

Other gift income, $275,138 or 6.6 per cent.

Faculty salaries—Washington and Lee has made
progress and hopes to continue to make progress in
maintaining faculty salaries at a high and competitive
level. This is necessary if the University is to recruit
and retain an excellent faculty—the bedrock on which
any institution of higher education rests. ‘This is the
situation at Washington and Lee:

In 1960-61 the average compensation of full pro-
fessors was $10,000; today, it is $15,000, an increase
during the period of about 50 per cent. For other
ranks average compensation has increased from 1960-
61 to today as follows: associate professors, $7,800 to
$11,495; assistant professors, $6,420 to $9,576; in-

FALL 1967

structors, $5,000 to $8,369.

The total budget this year for professors, associate
professors, assistant professors, and instructors, not
including deans who teach, is $1,364,000. Last year,
among about 2,000 colleges and universities, Wash-
ington and Lee ranked 72 in terms of faculty salaries.

Investments—The Board of ‘Trustees now has an in-
vestment committee which is responsible for the Uni-
versity’s investments and works closely with investment
representatives of the State Planters Bank of Com-
merce and Trust in Richmond and the United States
Trust Co. in New York.

An approximate analysis of Washington and Lee's
investments, which now have a market value of about
$20,000,000: 16 per cent in bonds, 0.6 per cent in
convertible bonds; 2 per cent in preferred stocks, 72
per cent in common stocks, 7 per cent in mortgages,
and 0.3 per cent in cash on hand ready for invest-
ment.

Areas of major holdings run like this: Automotives,
14 per cent; chemicals, 12.8 per cent; drugs and home

products, 11 per cent; electric utilities, 10.2 per cent;
oil and gas, 10.2 per cent.

Mr. Whitehead ended his report with these words:

“It has been my hope during this brief report to
give you factual information, and if I have given the
impression that Washington and Lee is financially
sound, that was my intent. For this is correct. How-
ever, Washington and Lee has needs, terribly ex-
pensive needs, programs to develop, and expensive
capital needs, and it is to this end that we, the ad-
ministration of Washington and Lee and the Board
of Trustees, must now direct our attention and our
energies...

“We are delighted to have you here to see, to hear,
and to be reassured that this institution still exists.
But we are more delighted to know of your deep con-
cern and interest in the welfare of this University.

“Washington and Lee, as a private institution, a
private liberal arts college, is still here. With the
continued and increased support of its alumni and
its other sources of strength, Washington and Lee
as a private college will continue to be here.

   
  

OPICS COVERED during the Special Conference for

Alumni Representatives were as broad and as
complex as Washington and Lee is broad and complex,
given the ferment and turbulence going on in higher
education everywhere in the country.

The sessions covered the status of the University
today; development plans; the present conditions,
challenges, and Opportunities of the University’s three
divisions; the recent comprehensive self-study and its
major recommendations; admissions standards and
practices and financial aid; the maintenance of a
strong faculty; and student and fraternity affairs.

The discussions were frank, and the question-and-
answer periods that followed the formal presentations
were often prolonged and pointed.

But no discussion, perhaps, generated more fervor
and depth of feeling than an exchange of views on
the deterioration of conventional dress among some
students on campus.

It would be a mistake to conclude that the matter
of dress was all that the alumni delegates were in-
terested in—that what a man wears is more important
than what he has in his head.

8

A Matter of Coats

And Ties

A Lengthy Debate

Reconstructed

But there is no escaping the conclusion that many
alumni of Washington and Lee feel intensely and
sincerely that the preservation of conventional dress
is essential to the maintenance of Washington and
Lee's distinctive qualities, including its fostering of
honor and character as well as its insistence on in-
tellectual excellence.

The following is an abbreviated reconstruction of
the discussion on conventional dress. It is not pre-
sented as a verbatim report. It is not presented either
as a life-or-death issue. Rather it is intended to convey
some notion of what conventional dress means to
Washington and Lee people and of the part it plays
or does not play in the University’s overall program
of educating young men in an era that some media
are now calling “the permissive society.”

The issue of dress came up in connection with a
discussion of admissions standards and_ procedures.
It soon became apparent that some alumni delegates
were not satisfied that the University is doing all that
it might to determine in advance whether an applicant
will adhere to the traditions of Washington and Lee.

The exchange proceeded along these lines—Q indi-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

cating alumni questions or statements, and 4 indicat-
ing responses by University officials:

Q—Alumni should be used more in admissions.
‘They are in a position to give recommendations on
students who would abide by the traditions of Wash-
ington and Lee.

A—We have a little bit of a problem with this sort
of recommendation. Very often we are not talking
about the student; we are talking about the parent.
In a lot of cases, it turns out that the alumnus writ-
ing the letter is writing a recommendation of the
character of the family, not the son.

Q—But the alumnus is in a position to know the
boy and recommend him as a good prospect.

A—You have seen a number of people around the
school who are obviously not following conventional
dress. Pick out five of them, get their names, look
in their admissions folder, and you'll find a letter
that says that this is exactly the kind of boy who
will benefit most from the traditions of Washington
and Lee. You have to remember that they are being
recommended when they are 17 years old, and a lot
of them have never been away from home. And
education is a process of development, and at 17 they
are not fully developed. And some of them will de-
velop one way, and some the other.

Q—I would like to recommend that there be in-
corporated into the application for admission to
Washington and Lee a sentence or paragraph which
would be a representation that the student, upon
acceptance of admission, would adhere to the pro-
visions of the honor system and the things that mean
a hell of a lot to the men in this audience. If there
are 10 per cent, for example, violating these things
(conventional dress) and the Assimilation Committee
being nothing anymore, there is no way to correct
it. I don’t go along with that thinking. But, in any
event, we feel that if a fair representation were made
by an applicant, there can be at least some ground
upon which to call his hand—that he did in his appli-
cation represent that he would attempt to uphold the
things that we hold dear.

A—I don’t like loyalty oaths, and I particularly
don’t like them for 17-year-old students who really
haven’t made up their minds yet. And I hate to put
them in a position where if they change their minds,
they have to leave Washington and Lee. We don’t
like decline in tradition. But it has always been a
student-enforced tradition, and it is not now being
enforced. I can’t imagine throwing a student out of
school because he wouldn’t wear a tie. I think you
are misjudging the whole student body. Maybe we

FALL 1967

 

do have, say, 10 per cent, all right, I would say about
5 per cent, who don’t wear conventional dress. But
you would find that the 95 per cent who do wear it
would defend to the death the right of the & per cent
not to wear it.

Q—What’s happened to the Assimilation Commit-
tee?

A—The Assimilation Committee at the moment
has no power to enforce conventional dress. It was
taken away from the Assimilation Committee two
years ago by the duly elected officers of the Student
Body Executive Committee. It was decided that the
Student Body would not enforce—they would try to
persuade—but would not enforce conventional dress.
I might add that conventional dress seems to be a
block for us. Other campuses have had revolts in areas
that from an educational point of view are much,
much more serious than whether a student wears a
coat or tie. We have no scholastic problems or dis-
ciplinary problems.

Q—Maybe we don’t have them here; other schools
have them. We alumni are here because of our love
for WeL. The students don’t seem to respect WL
as much as WeL respects the students.

A—I don’t think it is legitimate to make that step
from students who won’t wear a tie to their not
respecting W&L. What has happened—and this is a
factor in every school in the country—is that students
are perfectly willing for an individual student to de-
cide his own pattern of behavior. Every student is
perfectly free to decide his own morality. ‘The majority
of students no longer enforce their opinions or
morality on a minority. They just will not do it. That
is what happened to the Assimilation Committee.
Still go per cent of our students wear coats and ties,
almost all of the time.

Q—I may be a little bit on the other side of this
alumni group, but I think that all of us ought to
stand up and be counted. I would hate to see Wash-
ington and Lee, for example, lose an_ Einstein
just because he wanted to wear baggy pants and a

9

 

 

Dr. SEVERN P. C. DUVALL
... He flicked a flag...

sweat shirt. I’m not for everybody on campus doing
this, but I think that there is room for the dreamers
and the loners, and these are often people who make
intellectual advances in our civilization. We might
get some real leaders out of here, too. If they refuse
to dress differently on occasion, they ought to have
the priviledge.

Q—The answer to the question “What does a man
learn by wearing a coat and tie?” is that, like a proper
grown up person, he prepares himself to go out into
the world.

A—That is a student question. That is the question
that they always ask whenever conventional dress
comes up—"How will it help me learn?”

Q—We are all changing a little bit, too. These things
are changing now; they are different. I think if we
paid less attention to it, that it would just die out.
The 90 per cent are going to influence the others.

A—Thank you.

Q—I think that only time will change what we
are talking about now. It interests me that some of
you are supposed to be able to predetermine whether
aman is going to wear a coat and tie when he comes
to W&L. Besides, isn’t this a subject for discussion
tomorrow?

The discussion did turn to other matters. But the
question of dress was brought up the next day by Dr.
Severn P. C. Duvall, professor of English and head of
the department. Dr. Duvall addressed his remarks
to the alumni at the close of his discussion of the

He said:

“Now let me flick the red flag at you (and the
metaphor was consciously chosen). I can’t let pass
the opportunity to speak out here as a faculty
member and as an Admissions Committee member
on the issue of dress which you raised yesterday—
and to speak bluntly.

“For myself, for nearly all of the faculty mem-
bers on the Admissions Committee, and for a
significant number of newer faculty members
(and, I would be willing to guess, for a very large
number of the total faculty), I think the faculty
would turn you down flat on any idea as you
espoused yesterday about qualifying admission on
the basis of a promise to dress in a certain way.

“And I think that we would turn it down on
the basis of the very virtues we have and the
dangers we as faculty members have to oppose.

“I am speaking now for those of us who were
concerned about your concern yesterday. I
should say parenthetically that I, too, like a stu-
dent who maintains the customs (ways of dress, of
course, are customs rather than traditions). I grew
up amid such customs myself; one of your natural
enemies [The University of Virginia] also had a
custom of this kind.

“But I would maintain that Washington and
Lee is not a finishing school, and the faculty are
not substitutes for parents. They will not do the
training that parents fail to do, or that, frankly,
the fraternities are failing to do. Here, if any-
where, you should focus your complaints on the
social groups that should naturally maintain social
customs.

“In fact, if we as faculty are worth your pride
and your praise—and I think we are—you must
expect that we will encourage the student to
reconsider the old familiar patterns, that indeed
we will encourage them to scrutinize unexamined
presuppositions of their selves and their world.

“I think you have to remember that education
is after all a radical act in the rudimentary sense
of the word. As student and teacher alike we go
back and try to re-examine; and so I ask you not
to ask us to betray our reason for being here.

“I suggest instead that you go back to your
fellow alumni and tell them that this is a crack-
ing good educational institution; it’s way ahead
of its reputation. We acknowledge our origins in
Liberty Hall Academy, but we are now way, way
beyond it in a world it could not know.”

problems of recruiting and retaining a first-rate fac-
ulty in the humanities at a small liberal arts college.

‘The issue of dress persists, but there for the moment
it stood.

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Alumni Write Back:

JHE REPRESENTATIVES who participated in the
Special Alumni Conference came, saw, heard, had
their say on a number of issues, and went away to re-
port to their fellow alumni. But that was not all.
Alumni Secretary William C. Washburn asked the
delegates to put into writing their impressions of the
meeting and their ideas on how the University might
meet certain problems. The delegates were also asked
to suggest ways future conferences might be improved.
Letters from the delegates—some long and some
short—have been coming back ever since. The fol-
lowing are excerpts from some of the letters. The
excerpts are not intended to represent the full tenor
of each letter nor to present in every case the most
important point made by the writer. Rather the ex-
cerpts are intended to emphasize again the range of
the conference coverage and the variety of reactions
to what was said and seen. Names of the writers have
been omitted.

‘Ehe excerpts:

“As an alumnus of W&L as well as a father of
a ‘rising’ freshman I am most gratified to hear that
the University is endeavoring to establish a climate
of independence, freedom, and responsibility. ‘To my
mind the most important is responsibility, and it is
one of the most difficult jobs I have in my role as a
father. I look for help in this job wherever I can find
it. All of us must put forth more effort in providing a
climate for the young men of today to see the need for
a ‘responsible’ society.”

“This [lunch with student representatives] was one
of the most rewarding sessions of the conference. I
am particularly pleased that Washington and Lee,
in the face of decreasing applications for enrollment,
still is able to maintain the high quality of young
men it has in the past. Many of us sided with the
students on their views on fraternity life. Fraternities
ave and should continue to be a very real part of
Washington and Lee. The faculty bends over back-
wards in many areas to allow the student his ‘freedom
of choice’ Fraternities, through the IFC, are doing
more to try to help themselves today than ever be-
fore. Give them guidance—not condemnation.”

“I know that campus life is not today what
it was when I was in school, and my only ob-
servation, obtained in the very short time I was
on campus last week, is that, in all probability,
the students today have too much freedom and

FALL 1967

Dear Bill .. . Dear Willie

should have more guidance in all those prepara-
tions for adulthood. I know this is probably the
expression of a parent, but, after all, most of the
students coming to the W&L campus are only
18 or 19 years of age when they arrive, and I,
for one, would not oppose a closer association
between the administration and the student body
in matters outside of the academic life.”

“Upperclass dormitories are needed, but requiring
that a certain group of students live in them is again
reversing the trend of student freedoms.”

“I do feel that it was a most constructive con-
ference which we certainly enjoyed and which gave
us a better understanding of the W&L of today. Edgar
Spencer [professor of geology] mentioned to me
that with the insight given at this conference we
probably know more about the school now than
most of the members of the faculty.”

“It is my feeling that all alumni in attendance
certainly gained an insight into the problems facing
the administration and should certainly be more
sympathetic in the future to situations that we may
have been more critical of formerly.”

“The policy of the Admissions Committee is
reflected in the quality of the student body. This
quality apparently continues to be at a high
level. Every effort should be made to visit the
metropolitan areas to obtain personal interviews
with as many applicants as possible. The alumni
expressed a desire to assist in this area; use us to
the best advantage to alleviate the work load of
the Admissions Committee. I feel our emphasis
should continue to be on the well-rounded boy
rather than ‘Sammy student’.”

“I hope that you will continue this conference in
order that other alumni may have the benefit of a
program of this type. I believe that the continuation
of the program will result in increased alumni sup-
port.”

“I feel that the University is to be congratulated
on the excellence of the faculty. This seems to be a
very competent and dedicated group of men and each
a leader in his particular field. The details of the
method of selection were very informative and with
the current salary scale and fringe benefits, we cer-
tainly should be able to maintain our leadership in
this area.”

(Continued on next page)

11

“TI was naturally upset by the deterioration of
conventional dress evidenced on the campus, but
I concur that this must be a student-enforced
tradition. Like many W&L alumni, I am a tradi-
tionalist and hate to see change when it is not
for good. I hope that the administration will at
least encourage the students to continue Uni-
versity tradition.”

“Regarding fund raising and gifts to the University,
I feel a more aggressive spirit has to be adopted.
Being in sales myself, one quickly learns that you
have to be asked to buy, and itt may require more
than one approach. This also applies to donations
and gifis, and I feel that WeL has hardly scratched
its alumni potential, in addition to the corporate and
foundation ‘market’.”

“The plan and format of the meeting was exceed-
ingly good, and I particularly enjoyed and compli-
ment the meeting with student leaders to get their
individual viewpoints. The luncheon meeting with
these people was, however, too short. It might be
possible to arrange a similar type of contact with
individual members of the faculty by having them
available in their offices during given periods of
the conference time.”

“My only major criticism is that the conference
with the students simply got out of hand. I was
shocked and dismayed by the statements made
by some of the students which I considered ir-
responsible. However, I had an opportunity to
speak with many students at some length on the
campus and I did not get the venomous reaction
from them that I did from the student leaders.”

“I am not aware of any activity of the University
during the 17 years since I graduated which has been
of as much benefit to me as an alumnus as this meet-
ing. I cannot commend too highly the parties re.
sponsible for bringing about this meeting.”

“IT suppose that each new class of students becomes
a trustee in effect of the traditions and attitudes
engendered by past classes. ‘Therefore, the concern
expressed by the alumni of these matters during the
conference, was, if anything, an expression of dis-
appointment with the current student trustees. How-
ever, viewed as a whole, I believe we would agree that
our fiduciary trust has been placed in capable hands.
It was my personal impression that Washington and
Lee continues to stand for the same wonderful in-
tangibles that makes it so dear to our hearts. It is
merely that these intangibles are expressed in terms
relevant to 1967, which is as it should be for a
living and growing institution.”

12

“There seems to be some of the faculty/statl
who would be happier if the fraternities were
patterned after those at Dartmouth or Williams
or University of Virginia, and I would say to those
people that as an alumnus I don’t want Wash-
ington and Lee to be like Dartmouth, Williams,
University of Virginia or ‘Tulane; I want it to be
Washington and Lee—not stagnant, but in its
own mold.”

“Tam glad that the Honor System ts intact and
obviously safe; I was a bit disappointed in the atti-
tude of some students toward conventional dress, but
I believe the minority who ignore tt will be the ulti-
mate losers.”

“I believe the one improvement that could be made
would be in the matter of communication between
conferences. It seems to me these channels are open,
but sometimes are not used to the fullest either
by us or by the University. By this I mean that we
don’t read all we should in the Alumni Magazine. In
some instances I believe personal communication
between the students and the faculty and alumni
members with whom they are friendly would be a
ereat advantage.”

“After all, the only thing that makes Washington
and Lee different from any other college is its atmos-
phere of gentlemanly conduct inspired by Robert E.
Lee and others. ‘This includes the custom of speak-
ing to everyone on the campus and the custom of
wearing a coat and tie at all times. When these tradi-
tions break down, which they seem to be doing, I
may as well send my boys to any other school in the
country. I know that these problems are difficult, but
there is nothing wrong with a minimum amount of
law and order in any society.”

“As for the fraternity system, I see some real weak-
nesses which must be corrected by the leaders of these
groups themselves. The junior-senior members should
be encouraged to live in the houses and supply the
leadership necessary to maintain a positive system.
I hope that the faculty will make an effort when
asked for help to lend a hand. If they want help,
give it to them. Lexington offers very little social
activity other than the fraternity, and the demise of
the system would change the whole character of the
school.”

“I very much personally appreciate the opportunity
of coming to Lexington for the three days, and think
that all of you in the Alumni Association and the
University administration do a magnificent job. I
am very pleased to enclose a contribution to the
University.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Photos by John Hughes

Glee Club performs from a balcony in the Washington Cathedral.

FALL 1967

 

Glee Club on Tour

First the Cathedral,
Then on to Expo

By Joun HucuHes

NE THING YOU can say about the Washington and
Lee Glee Club—they love to sing.

‘They sing in the bus on the way to the airport, they
sing in the plane, they sing in the terminal, they sing
in the hotel, they even sing while walking along the
street.

But most of all they sing—oh how they can sing—
in concert. They performed magnificently before an
overflow crowd at the cavernous Washington Cathe-
dral, and although their audiences were much smaller
in Montreal, they gave equally excellent performances
there.

Dozens of people came up to this writer during and
alter the four Montreal concerts—two at Canada’s
Expo 67 and another pair at a large downtown shop-
ping center—to express their gratitude and pleasure
at the W&L Glee Club’s singing.

All inquired “What group is this?” and “Where are
you from?” ‘The next question almost always was “Are
you here for Expo?” and then they invariably com-
mented, “Well, they are just magnificent,” or ““They’re
wonderful,” “They sing so well,” and “We just
thoroughly enjoyed it.”

A number of them stepped up after each concert
to tell the glee club members and director Robert
Stewart the same thing.

Various unfortunate circumstances combined to hold
the crowds to a scant few during all four Canadian
concerts. ‘he shopping center where the glee club
performed is the main downtown terminal of the
Montreal subway, the “metro,” but a transportation
strike forced it to close.

The shopping center manager, Vincent Cosentino,
said he normally would have “‘at least 300,000 people”
passing through the plaza each day. But the subway
strike, together with a walkout of bus drivers, practi-
cally killed downtown traffic and cut the shopping
center crowd to only several hundred.

While it was a balmy 50-plus degrees when the glee

 

Joun E. HuGues, ’55, is director of the University’s news
bureau and a frequent contributor to the Alumni Magazine.

“5

 

club arrived in Montreal, it was a bitingly cold, rain-
soaked day when the group appeared at Expo. ‘The
estimated 247,000 people who were to visit the fair
that day understandably dwindled to a fourth of that
number.

Spread that around the large Expo grounds and
you have only several handsful dropping by Band-
shell E where the glee club was singing. But again
those who did were most enthusiastic in praising the
performances.

Perhaps there was an early portent that all was
not going to be perfect on this trip, when the bus
taking the group to the Roanoke airport backed
over all the music. But except for a few tire marks on
the sheet music, there was no damage.

While traveling on the bus to the airport, the glee
club exercised its vocal cords with renditions of every-
thing from “Splish Splash” to “Jesus Loves Me.”

In Washington, the glee club’s first stop, they were
met by the University’s John A. Graham Brass Choir,
which had motored to the nation’s capital from Lex-
ington.

A short concert by the brass choir preceded the
glee club’s presentation—both just prior to the Wash-
ington Cathedral’s very popular “Evensong” service.
An overflow crowd filled the huge cathedral for the
service.

Just before entering the cathedral, Prof. Stewart
had told the glee club:

“Remember, this is your first concert, so watch me
like a hawk. If you don’t know the note, find one—
and hold it.”

You would never have known it was the club’s first

14

Pror. Roperr StrewArr directs
his singers in a concert at Expo
67.

concert of the school year. ‘The way they filled the
cathedral with beautiful, sacred music is attributable
to the many hours of practice they put into it. From
the first day of school until departure in mid-October,
the glee club practiced every week night for the up-
coming concerts.

After the Washington concert, the brass choir re-
turned by bus to Lexington, while the glee club con-
tinued on to Montreal via its chartered plane. ‘They
continued to sing, despite the absence of any food
aboard the plane.

Arriving in Montreal late Sunday night (they broke
into “God Save the Queen” as the plane touched
down), the glee club had a chance to shop and take

 

Pror. STEWART recovers music from under the wheels of a way-
ward bus—no damage, just tire marks.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

a short walking tour of Montreal Monday betore the
first concerts that afternoon at the Alexis Nihon
shopping center. These served as valuable practices
for the pair of concerts the next afternoon at Expo.

Unfortunately, Tuesday began with a drizzle which
got steadily heavier and colder as the day wore on.
By the time the glee club arrived at Expo and set
up in Bandshell E (situated between the Iranian and
Swiss pavilions), it was a raw, frigid day, and the
crowd was held down accordingly.

Still, all that had one big advantage. With the
Expo crowd so relatively small that day, the W&L
singers, between and after the concerts, could walk
right into almost any pavilion they wished (the one
big exception: Czechoslovakia, which had a line of
thoroughly soaked people clear around it).

Despite such a short visit of only two full days in
Montreal, the glee club found the Canadian city to
be clean, beautiful and friendly. In contrast to its
heavy French flavor, the British influence hasn’t been
neglected. ‘There was that magnificent English pub,
named (so help me) “The Maidenhead,” with its tan-
talizing barmaids from London and Australia.

‘They sang there too.

Language proved to be a surmountable barrier.
Bilingual tenor John Ballantine announced each
concert selection first in English and then in French.
And the headline in the French-language Montreal
newspaper is clear in any language—‘Gordie Howe
frustre les Rangers.”

Still, there was the business when bass Wendall
Winn tried to explain to the hotel manager that his
pea-sized swimming pool was overflowing. All Wendall
could muster in his attempts to communicate in
French was “Your pool is full of water.”

Tuesday night it was back to the hotel for an early
arising Wednesday and the trip back to Lexington.
That was hardly uneventful.

‘The same cold, windy and wet weather that settled
on Montreal spread across the United States, and the
flight back, especially across Pennsylvania, was one of
the bumpiest even the most experienced air travelers
on the plane had even encountered. At least a third
of the group—including one of the two stewardesses—
got sick. This writer was captain of the “dropout”
team which left the plane during the refueling stop
at Washington and continued to Lexington via a
rented car. (A hymn of thanks accompanied the pilot's
perfect landing in 40 m.p.h. winds at Dulles Inter-
national).

Smashed music, hunger, cold and wet weather,
strikes, small crowds, airsickness ... still these couldn’t
combine to alter a highly successful concert tour by
the Washington and Lee Glee Club.

FALL 1967

 

First Montreal concerts were at a shopping center.

 

GLEE CLUB Exepo PROGRAM

Edvard Grieg
‘Traditional

Brothers, Sing On
Three Spirituals pee ee
Good News, Chariot’s Comin’
Rock-a My Soul
Poor Man Lazrus
‘Two Songs co ei
sam was a man (e.e. Cummings)
jimmie’s got a goil (e.e. cummings)
Ceulx de Picardie Claudin de Sermisy
On An Island (Synge) ; SimInikoff
‘Turtle Dove ve R. Vaughan Williams
Randy Lee, soloist
‘Tarantella
Landsighting en .
Robert Miller, soloist
Last Words of David
Jayberd of Diss
Show Music
It Ain’t Necessarily So
Randy Lee, soloist
Man of La Mancha
Jeff ‘Twardy, soloist
‘The Impossible Dream
Robert Miller, soloist
Falling in Love with Love
Jeff ‘Twardy, soloist
Washington and Lee Swing . . . . . «~~ Allen

Vincent Persichetti

Randall ‘Thompson
Edvard Grieg

Randall ‘Thompson
R. Vaughan Williams

George Gershwin
Mitch Leigh
Mitch Leigh

Richard Rogers

 

 

 

 

A closeup of touring W&L singers.

 

DrEAN OF STUDENTS EpwArD C. Atwoop talks with students at Freshman Camp.

Of Deans, Dilemmas, and Double-Thinkers

AID THE Washington and Lee Alumni Magazine in
S the winter of 1962: “His main job is to see that
students study and behave themselves.”

The reference was to Dr. Edward C. Atwood, Jr.,
who had just taken on a new job at Washington
and Lee—that of Dean of Students. It was and is a
big job. Ask anybody connected with the University,
and they will tell you that Dr. Atwood has one of the
toughest jobs on campus. Besides his deaning, Dean
Atwood is a professor of economics and chairman of
the Admissions Committee.

Who at Washington and Lee is in a better position
to know students than he? Nearly every day he shares
their tragedies and their triumphs. He is their friend;
he is their foe—depending on the circumstances. How
else could it be with a person charged with the task
of seeing that they study and behave themselves?

So he was given rapt attention by the hundreds

16

of parents of Washington and Lee students who
packed Lee Chapel at the closing session of Washing-
ton and Lee’s 13th annual Parents’ Weekend on
October 20, 21, and 22.

Dean Atwood’s talk might have been called “The
Two Faces of the Washington and Lee Student.” But
he chose simply to label it “Paradoxes and Dilemmas.”
He told the parents:

“A number of parents have commented to me over
the years that they have some problem communi-
cating with and understanding their college-age sons.
I would like to admit frankly that I very often
have this same problem with your sons and also with
my own. [He has two.]

“I think that this communication problem can be
understood as part of the maturation process students
are going through. Growing up is not too easy these
days. Late adolescents (the new name for the college-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

age group, although students prefer to be called young
adults) have many more problems than we did at
the same period of our lives.

“Over the past g0 or so years both the family and
the community (and I include the college community)
have declined as major sources of guidance and se-
curity for the student, and no other social institutions
have developed to fill the void. I believe that most
parents feel somewhat guilty about this—certainly I
do in my role as a parent.

“The college student seems to go through a period
of paradox—a period when he has the ability to be-
lieve strongly in two diametrically opposed ideas. Let
me briefly mention some of these paradoxes present
on the Washington and Lee campus.

“Students complain that the college restricts their
lives too much; yet in the same breath they charge
that the college neglects them.

‘‘_Most of our students favor a cultural, liberal-arts
approach to education; yet they become concerned
when some of their courses will not be of direct use-
fulness to them in their professional lives.

“Students ask for guidance, both personal and
professional; yet when they get advice they very often
consider it interference and ignore it.

‘Students demand that they be treated as respon-
sible adults; yet they often object when students are
reprimanded for acting in a juvenile manner.

‘Students demand that professors be available
for informal contacts outside of class; yet a very large
number of students do not take advantage of this
availability.

“—Students complain regularly about the lack of
outside speakers on the campus; yet when a renowned
speaker appears most students will not attend.

“Students now demand that the University build
comfortable upperclass dormitories; yet they are dia-
metrically opposed to the requirement that students
must live there.

‘“_Most students readily admit that fraternities
could be a more beneficial influence in the educational
process; yet they interpret any criticism as an attack
on a sacred institution.

“These paradoxes create dilemmas not only for
parents but also for deans.

‘Almost no matter what position a dean (or parent)
takes he is bound to be wrong.

“This is good—if you can stand it! It is an im-
portant phase in the growth of your son. It is a phase
that will aid him to become the kind of man we
are both sure he will become.”

 

Rush 1967: Fraternities are often a source of paradox and

dilemma for many students.

FALL 1967

 

17

Stamps: Marshall Makes Three

EMORIES OF THE first-day issue
M of the Washington and Lee
200th anniversary commemorative
postage stamp in 1949 were revived
in Lexington on October 24 with
the issuance for the first time of a
new 20-cent stamp honoring the
late General of the Army George
C. Marshall. The ceremonies were
held at the Marshall Research Li-
brary, located between Washington
and Lee and VMI. The former
U.S. Chief of Staff, Secretary of
State, and Secretary of Defense was
graduated in 1901 from VMI.

The Marshall stamp was _ the
third to be issued in Lexington in
less than go years, which is believed
to be something of a record for a
community of similar size. The
Washington and Lee stamp was pre-
ceded by a 3-cent commemorative
stamp honoring Cyrus Hall Mc-
Cormick, inventor of the reaper,
as a part of the “Famous American
Series of 1940.”

Demands for first-day covers by
philatelists from all across the coun-
try were brisk for all three stamps.
The Washington and Lee stamp
produced 700,000 requests, and
245,000 of the McCormick covers
were sold. Only about 150,000 of
the Marshall issue were sold which
will have the effect of making the
issue Of added value as time passes.

Washington and Lee, which pur-
chased several thousand _first-day
covers, still receives a steady flow
of requests for them. Officials of the
Marshall Library announced that
they have also purchased a large
number of their covers, which will
be on sale through the Library.

The first-day ceremonies at the
Marshall Library were held Octo-
ber 24 in recognition of United
Nations Day and the twentieth an-
niversary of the origins of the Mar-

18

 

shall Plan. General Marshall, then
Secretary of State, first proposed
what was to become the plan for
rescuing Europe from post-war eco-

nomic catastrophe in a speech at
Harvard in June of 1947.
Distinguished Americans, many
of whom were associated with Gen-
eral Marshall in formulating and
administrating the Plan during the
four years of its active existence
from 1948 to 1952, were among the
2,000 who attended the recent cere-
monies. U.S. Ambassador-at-Large
W. Averell Harriman and Paul
Gray Hoffman, former Plan ad-
were the

ministrator, principal

speakers at the exercises, which

 

 

were presided over by General of
the Army Omar N. Bradley, Mar-
shall Foundation president. U.S.
Postmaster General Lawrence F.
O’Brien made formal presentation
of the new stamp.

Following the ceremonies, dur-
ing the course of an informal re-
ception, the Library opened for
the first time a new museum room
devoted exclusively to the opera-
tion of the recovery program. ‘The
room, which supplements three ad-
ditional museum rooms dealing
with General Marshall’s life and
career, is believed to be the only
permanent exhibit of its kind in
existence.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

The Seasons of Heroes by Paxton
Davis, published by William Mor-
row and Company, $4.95.

 

EFORE ONE discusses Paxton

Davis’ new novel, The Seasons
of Heroes, it is necessary to say
something about his artistry. Pax-
ton Davis cares. He cares intensely
about the meaning of words and
how they are put together. He is
almost incapable of writing a bad
sentence. ‘This makes him a plea-
sure to read.

He cares intensely, too, about
people and events. He cares about
what motivates people and why
they behave as they do in a given
situation. He might cringe at the
suggestion that he is concerned
mainly with whether the good in
man can triumph ultimately over
the evil that is in him. But he is
concerned with this. And _ this
makes him important to read.

Mr. Davis is a_ professor of
journalism at Washington and
Lee. The Seasons of Heroes is his
fourth novel. Mr. Davis thinks that
it is his best book and so do most
of the critics. Both are probably
right.

In an interview recently with
Mary Bland Armistead, women’s
editor of the Roanoke World-News,
Mr. Davis told what motivated him
to write the book—a novel that
plumbs the mind and heart of three
generations of a Virginia family,
the Gibboneys.

“IT wanted to make up my own
mind emotionally how anybody
who had a career as an officer in
the Union army could become an
officer in the Confederate ranks,”
he said.

So Matthew Gibboney was creat-
ed. And Mr. Davis had no lesser
figure than Jubal Early say how
it was with Matt: “He wanted
Union, yes; but he wanted Vir-
ginia too—well, which of us wanted
anything else? ‘The point is: the
choice had to be made. I don’t

FALL 1967

 

"A
Book
For
All

Seasons’

PAXTON Davis at an autograph party spon-
sored by the Washington and Lee Book-
store.

think Matt ever made it. He could
have been a major general by now—
a lieutenant general! Instead he
took his brigade and he surendered
his brigade, not because he was a
quitter: because he’d never been a
Starter.”

And Mr. Davis said, recalling
Civil War veterans of his child-
hood “whose lives seemed to. stop
in 1865,” he wanted to probe their
“frozen lives, their paralysis.”’

So Matt’s son, Robert, was creat-
ed. And Robert went on a cavalry
raid into Pennslyvania, and he got
his Yankee—shot him square in the
face, after having reasoned: “I saw

 

[must not kill him. Nothing would
make that right, nothing could: for
what I saw, and seeing knew, was
that his life was as sacred as my
own, that his body, mind and spirit
were as real: no principle—no war,
no cause—could alter that. This
man might be my enemy, but first
he was a man, a man like myself;
indeed, this enemy was myself.’ But
Robert got his Yank for “We find
in war the self we dare not face
in peace.”

Then Mr. Davis said it seemed
that “sons of Confederate veterans
were a deprived generation; they
got the short end of the stick when
their fathers stopped living after
Appomattox.”

So Robert’s son, Will, was
created. And as it turned out Will
was a hero the likes of which may
still be found in the South or
wherever men of good will and
courage exist. He tried and failed,
or so it seemed, to save a Negro
from a lynch mob. But the Negro
escaped and became a World War
I hero and a Hollywood star. But
he wrote Will just before he died
that it was Will he always looked
up to.

Then the aged Robert had _ to
say to Will the son that indeed he
was “the one we all looked to,
deferred to, depended on—the
bravest of the lot, Will, and the
steadiest and sanest and best...
We've all of us leaned on you
from the time you were a pup,
and you’ve never once failed us,
not any of us, ever. What? You
didn’t know?”

And Will did not know as prob-
ably no true hero ever knows.
There are many other points in
Mr. Davis’ novel; but this is a main
point, and to read the book and
learn how he makes it is a reward-
ing experience.

Guy Friddell in the The Com-
monwealth magazine put it well:
The Seasons of Heroes is a book for
all seasons.

R.T.W.

r9

Board of ‘Trustees Changes

Malone Named
To Membership

OSS L. MALONE, vice president
R and general counsel of General
Motors Corp. and a former presi-
dent of the American Bar Associa-
tion, has been elected a member of
the board of trustees of Washing-
ton and Lee University.

His election was announced
October 20 by Dr. Huston St. Clair,
rector of the board. Malone is also
a former Deputy Attorney General
of the United States.

“We are fortunate that Mr. Ma-
lone has agreed to serve Washing-
ton and Lee in this important way,”
Dr. St. Clair said. “Mr. Malone is
one of the nation’s outstanding
lawyers and public servants. His
knowledge and experience in pro-
fessional and public affairs, I am
confident, will strengthen the board
in all of its deliberations and furth-
er the progress of the University.”

Malone, 57, is a 1932 graduate of
the Washington and Lee School of
Law. He joins on the board another
former president of the American
Bar Association, Lewis F. Powell,
Jr., of Richmond, Va., also an
alumnus of Washington and Lee.
Powell was elected to the board in
1961 and headed the ABA in 1964-
65.

Malone began practicing law in
1932 in his hometown of Roswell,
N. M., the small-town base from
which he ascended steadily into the
highest councils of the legal pro-
fession and of the nation’s largest
corporation.

He and his wife, the former Eli-
zabeth Louisa Amis, also a native
of Roswell, moved to New York
in July. Malone has offices in New
York and Detroit. He and his wife,

20

 

Ross L. MALONE

however, plan to keep their house
in Roswell.

Malone is proud of his small-
town heritage. He said he found
himself studying law at Washing-
ton and Lee in 19247 because a
Roswell high school teacher con-
vinced him he would make a good
public speaker. He is an out-going
man with a knack for remembering
names. His full name is Rosser
Lynn Malone, Jr., but he has al-
ways used simply, “Ross L.”

He was elected president of the
American Bar Association in 1958
at the age of 47. He was one of the
youngest men ever chosen to head
the ABA. At the time Malone said,
“I’m probably a Bar Association
president from the smallest town
ever so honored. Roswell has 35,-
000 population, and we claim it’s
now New Mexico’s second largest
city.” (Albuquerque was the larg-
est.)

Everywhere he went during his
extensive travels as ABA president,
he spread the message, “Come
to our beautiful country, New
Mexico.”

When Malone joined General
Motors, he gave up his post as
chairman of the board of directors
of the Security National Bank of
Roswell, but he retained his mem-
bership on the board.

He practiced law individually in
Roswell for five years and became
a partner in 1937 in the firm of
Atwood and Malone. He was Ros-
well’s city attorney from 1936 to
1942. He withdrew from his law
firm when he moved to New York.

During World War II, from 1942
to 1946, he served in the Navy. He
spent one and a half years aboard
an aircraft carrier in the Pacific
and attained the rank of lieutenant
commander.

He became a member of the
House of Delegates of the ABA in
1946 and served on the Board of
Governors and many of its com-
mittees, including the Executive
and Building Committee that plan-
ned and raised funds for the Ameri-
can Bar Center in Chicago.

Malone is a specialist in petrol-
eum and public utility law and has
written many articles on these sub-
jects.

He was appointed Deputy At-
torney General in 1952 during the
Truman Administration. His one-
year tenure in that office was nota-
ble for his establishment of the
arrangement under which the De-
partment of Justice submits to the
ABA the names of lawyers under
consideration for appointment to
the federal judiciary for recom-
mendations as to their professional
qualifications.

In 1954 and 1955 he was a mem-
ber of the task force on Legal
Services and Procedures of the
Hoover Commission. And in 1956
he was awarded the Hatton W.
Summers Award of the Southwest-
ern Legal Foundation in recogni-
tion of his contributions to im-
provements in the administration
of justice.

At present, he is president of the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

American Bar Foundation, an arm
of the ABA that does research in
subjects related to law practice, the
administration of justice, and the
public interest.

He is a member of the Council
of the American Law Institute and
a regent of the American College
of ‘Trial Lawyers. He is also a mem-
ber of the President’s Commission
on Law Enforcement and the Ad-
ministration of Justice and of the
President’s American Revolution
Bicentennial Commission. He is a
trustee of Southern Methodist Uni-
versity and of the Southwestern
Legal Foundation.

Malone has made frequent visits
to the Washington and Lee campus.
He gave the Omicron Delta Kappa
address here in 1958, and he was
awarded an honorary Doctor of
Laws degree by the University in
1958. In 1960, he delivered the
‘Tucker Law Lectures sponsored by
the School of Law. He also holds
honorary degrees from the Univer-
sity of New Mexico, Cumberland
University, the College of William
and Mary, Missouri Valley College,
and the University of British Co-
lumbia.

He is a member of ODK, Sigma
Nu social fraternity, Phi Delta Phi
legal fraternity, the Masonic Order,
and Rotary.

He was married to Mrs. Malone
in 1934. They have no children.

Caskie Honored

For Long Service

ASHINGTON AND LEE’S Board of

‘Trustees on October 14, act-
ing “in grateful appreciation” of
his long service and with “warm
friendship,’ honored James R.
Caskie of Lynchburg, Va., upon his
retirement from the board.

FALL 1967

 

Joun Newton Tuomas (left), a member of the Board of ‘Trustees, presents a_ silver
tray to JAMEs R. CASKIE in appreciation of Mr. Caskie’s 43 years of service as a trustee.

A handsome silver tray, engraved
with the signature of each of the
board members, was presented to
Mr. Caskie during a joint meeting
of the board with the directors of
the W&L Alumni Association.

Mr. Caskie, who is 82, had served
as a trustee for 43 years, one of the
longest records of service in the
University’s 219-year-old history. A
former rector of the board, Mr.
Caskie submitted his resignation
earlier to the trustees, citing health
considerations which prevent him
from continuing on the board.

Speaking for the trustees, Dr.
Huston St. Clair, rector of the
board, commented:

“It is indeed with sincere regret
that we note Mr. Caskie’s decision
to resign. During his many years
of devoted service to his alma
mater, the University has _ con-
tinued to progress. I know of no
one who has served Washington
and Lee with more dedication,
loyalty and affection.

‘All of us, trustees, alumni and
friends, will miss him.”

Mr. Caskie, a native of Lovings-
ton, Va., received his B.A. degree
in 1906 and his law degree in 1909
from Washington and Lee. Since

then he has been a practicing at-
torney in Lynchburg.

First elected to the board in
1924, Mr. Caskie was named rector
in 1953, and served in that capacity
until he resigned in 1962 because
of his health.

A bachelor, Mr. Caskie has been
very active in business, civic and
religious work in Lynchburg. He
has served as a director of many
business firms, and for 25 years was
a member of the board and secre-
tary-treasurer of the Presbyterian
Orphans’ Home in Lynchburg. An
elder in the First Presbyterian
Church of Lynchburg, he has been
a Bible class teacher for more than
35 years.

Mr. Caskie also served as _ presi-
dent of the Lynchburg General
Hospital and as chairman of the
board of the Lynchburg Hospital
Authority. He is a member of Delta
‘Tau Delta, Phi Delta Phi, Phi Beta
Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa,
Order of the Coif, the Elks and
Kiwanis.

During World War I, Mr. Caskie
served in France with the French
Foyer du Soldat. He is an honorary
citizen of Custines, France, and is a
member of the Newcomen Society.

21

NEWS
of the
CHAPTERS

CUMBERLAND VALLEY

= A LARGE NUMBER Of alumni in the
Cumberland Valley Chapter gath-
ered at the Fountain Head Country
Club on August 15 to pay honor to
the freshmen students from. the
area who entered Washington and
Lee in September. John B. Zent-
myer, ’07, was a special guest of
honor for the evening in as much
as he was celebrating his 6oth anni-
versary of graduation from Wash-
ington and Lee this year. Clyde E.
Smith, Jr., president of the chapter,
was master of ceremonies and _ in-
troduced the new students as well
as several of the current undergrad-
uate students. In the short business
session the alumni heard a _ trea-
surer’s report from John B. Hoke,
Jr., ‘60, a presidential report by
President Smith in which he re-
ferred to the fine record which the
Cumberland Chapter made in the
Alumni House Fund campaign.
President Smith encouraged all
members of the chapter to visit the
campus and particularly to see the
new Alumni House. Following a
report from the nominating com-
mittee chairman, Merle Kaetzel,
91, the following slate of officers
was unaminously elected: James L.
Rimler, °31, president; ‘“Lhomas
Kaylor, Jr., °45, vice-president; John
B. Hoke, Jr., *60, re-elected secre-
tary-treasurer.

The directors of the Alumni
Chapter for the next year are: Sam-
uel Strite, °29, Malcolm McCardell,
97, Merle Kaetzel, ’31, John Hoke,
‘60, Charles Beall, 56, Noel Spence,
56, Robert Clapp, ’30.

On hand for the occasion and

ho
ho

 

At the Cumberland Valley Chapter meeting GLENN SHIvELy, ’36, of Chambersburg Pa.,
is obviously telling a funny story to SAM Srrire, ‘29, (left), and Bos McCARDELL, °34,
both of Hagerstown, Md.

 

LAw Pror. ANDREW MCTHENIA, speaker at the Cumberland meeting, talks with the
guest of honor, JoHN D. ZENTMYER, ’07, and Mrs. Zentmyer. Mr. Zentmyer was celebrat-
ing the 6oth anniversary of his graduation from Washington and Lee.

 

New officers of the Cumberland Valley Chapter are (left to right) Tom KAyLor, ‘45,
vice-president; JIM RIMLFR, 31, president; JOHN B. HOKE, JR., ‘60, secretary-treasurer.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

representing the University was
Andrew McThenia, a graduate of
Washington and Lee who has re-
turned to the University as a pro-
fessor of law. Prof. McThenia gave
a very interesting report on the
status of Washington and Lee to-
day as seen through the eyes of a
new prolessor.

NEW YORK

gf THE ROAD TRIP sponsored by the
New York Alumni to the W&L-
Lafayette football game on October
14 carried on the hallowed tradi-
tion of a smashing W&L party
weekend. Despite inclement weath-
er conditions, 30 hearty fans met
at the N. Y. Athletic Club where
they boarded a bus with an in-
geniously designed bar in the back.
The trip passed pleasantly, though
we can’t say the same for the well-
fought game which ended in favor
of Lafayette. The rousing support
of the alumni from New York, New
Jersey and Pennsylvania was bolst-
ered by the services of a volunteer
trumpeter, and the spirit of the
team prevailed to the end. After
the game, the alumni stopped for
cocktails and dinner at the Holiday
Inn. Lafayette’s Alumni Secretary,
Mr. W. E. Greenip, and _ several
other people associated with La-
fayette College stopped in to wel-
come the W&L group, and we also
had the honor of meeting two of
W&L’s players who were there with
their families for dinner. Back in
New York, a brief tour of some of
the East Side pubs provided the
proper setting for nightcaps before
the group dispersed.

Because of the success of this
venture, the alumni in the New
York area have scheduled two more
“happenings” on their agenda: a
winter party at Bill’s Gay Nineties
on December ist, and a football
preview party in January. We look
forward to hearing from anyone
newly arrived in “Fun City” and
vicinity.

FALL 1967

 

Jacksonville Chapter officers are HAYwoop
BALL, ‘61, (right), president and CHARLES
COMMANDER, ‘62, vice-president.

 

Outgoing president of the Jacksonville
Chapter is FRANK SURFACE, ‘60, (left),
shown with ARCHIE JENKINS, ‘58.

 

Seeming to be in a festive mood at the Jacksonville meeting are (left to right) GUNNER
MILLER, 56; BILL HALEY, ‘60; ScoTT ALLEN, ’60.

BIRMINGHAM

= THE NEW STUDENTS from the Birm-
ingham area who entered Washing-
ton and Lee in September were
entertained by Mr. Henry Johnston
and a group of alumni on August
13. The occasion was another
“fun in the sun” day for Wash-
ington and Lee men and was held
at Lochwood, the lake home of the
Johnstons. Current students and
alumni as well took part in ex-
pressing welcome to the new stu-
dents. Under perfect weather con-
ditions the boys and their dates
enjoyed swimming, boating, skiing
and tennis. The alumni chapter ex-
pressed its appreciation to Mr.
Johnston for this party in honor
of the new students.

SOUTHERN OHIO

# A STAG SOCIAL HOUR, in honor of
the new students entering as fresh-

men at Washington and Lee, was
held Wednsday, August 23, at the
University Club in Cincinnati.
Stanley Hooker, ’39, president of
the chapter made the arrangements
and introduced Bill Washburn, ’40,
executive secretary of W&L Uni-
versity Alumni, Inc., who presented
colored slides of the campus and
made a few brief remarks about the
recent developments at the Univer-
sity. A very warm welcome was ex-
pressed to the current students and
the freshmen. Following the social
hour a group of the alumni stayed
for an informal dinner at the Uni-
versity Club.

JACKSONVILLE

An enjoyable social meeting was
conducted by the Jacksonville
alumni on September 6, in honor
of the incoming freshmen. ‘The

party for the freshmen and their

23

 

Freshman WILLIAM GATLIN, III, of Jack-
sonville was the winner of the name
contest at this year’s Freshman Camp.
The contest is sponsored by the Alumni
Association to foster the speaking tradi-
tion on campus. ALUMNI SECRETARY WIL-
LIAM C. WASHBURN presents the prize, a
W&L chair.

fathers was held at the Seminole
Club. Presiding at the steak dinner
was Frank Surface, ’60, president of
the Jacksonville chapter. Included
on the program were talks by cur-
rent students Ellis Zahra, Jack
Carithers, Jerry Weedon, and Al-
bert Fechtel, who covered major
topics such as fraternities, academ-
ics, athletics, and social functions
at Washington and Lee. In the
short business session which fol-
lowed, the following were named
officers for the new year: president,
Haywood M. Ball, ’61; vice-presi-
dent, Charles E. Commander, III,
‘62; secretary-treasurer, Warren E.
Wilcox, Jr., °63.

NEW ORLEANS
# Alumni from the surrounding
area gathered at the Founders
Room of the International House
Restaurant on Thursday, August
24, for a luncheon in honor of the
freshmen entering Washington and

24

Lee in September, 1967. The fresh-
men and their fathers were guests
for the occasion and several of the
current students discussed various
phases of college life. Rick Chris-
tovich, a senior, discussed the social
life on campus while Scott ‘Taggart,
a rising sophomore, told about the
Washington and Lee tradition.
Juniors Rick McMillan and John
Carrere discussed the athletic pro-
gram and the academic program
respectively. In a short business ses-
sion the following were named
officers for the New Orleans Chap-
ter: president, Dudley D. Flanders,
56; vice-president, Ralph S. Tag-
gart, '43; secretary-treasurer, Harley
B. Howcott, Jr., 60.

Jack McMillan, ’42, and James
Hammett, ’40, expressed on behalf
of the chapter a welcome and very
best wishes to the freshmen.

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA

# September, 1967, Washington
and Lee freshmen were honored at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. Stanton
B. Sample on August 29. A large
assembly of alumni was on hand
to welcome the freshmen, and a
very warm expression of apprecia-
tion was made by out-going presi-
dent, Robert U. Goodman, to Mr.
and Mrs. Sample for the gracious
hospitality of their home. In a short
business meeting that followed the
reception, M. Alton Evans, ’53, was
named the new president of the
alumni chapter.

TULSA-OKLAHOMA CITY

a Glen’s Hikry Inn was the setting
August 19 for alumni and _ their
ladies. ‘The reception and dinner
began at 7 p.m. with Colonel
Harold Sullivan, ’27L, expressing
welcome to the group. W. C. (Bill)
Washburn, ’40, from the University
presented color slides of the campus
and conducted discussions about
the developments and the future
activities at Washington and Lee.
The present students from the
Oklahoma-Tulsa area were intro-

duced by Sullivan and plans were
discussed for a more active W&L
program at the local high schools.
Millar White, Sr., ’25, expressed the
thanks of the chapter to Colonel
Sullivan and Millar White, Jr., ’51,
who had provided the refreshments.

LIVTLE ROCK

m THE CHAPTER Officers entertained
the present students and the four
new freshmen and their parents at
the Country Club, ‘Thursday, Aug-
ust 17. The dinner meeting was ar-
ranged by president, Adrian Wil-
liamson, ’50, who expressed wel-
come and best wishes to the stu-
dents on behalf of the chapter.
Williamson also advised of plans
for a full alumni meeting within
the next several weeks. Information
will be sent to each member. Whit-
low Wyatt, a rising sophomore, ad-
dressed the new freshmen with re-
marks about what the freshman
might expect in his first semester
at W&L. His comments were eagerly
received by freshmen and _ parents
alike. Bill Washburn, executive
secretary of the Alumni Associa-
tion, was on hand with recent color
slides of the campus.

ST. LOUIS

# A RECEPTION in honor of the new
students entering Washington and
Lee as freshmen from the St. Louis
area took place Tuesday, August
22, at Schneithorst’s Restaurant at
Lindbergh and Clayton Roads.
Alumni and current students at-
tended the stag meeting and gave
a warm welcome to the freshmen.
Warner Isaacs, ’57, the outgoing
chapter president, made the ar-
rangements and Bill Washburn, ’40,
representing the University, was on
hand to present color slides of the
campus. In a short business session
the following new officers were
elected for the chapter: president,
Bruce E. Bussen, ’56; treasurer, C.
F. Clement, °66; vice-president,
Rufus K. Barton, III, 63; secre-
tary, John E. ‘Tipton, 63.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Class Notes

1905

As a journalist, Ev1t M. MILLEN has
throughout the past years been at the
top in both the newspaper and the maga-
zine fields. His journalistic activities began
with his early days as a cub reporter on
the Memphis (Tenn.) Commercial Appeal
and the Sunday editorship of the Cin-
cinnati Enquirer followed. He was then
editor-in-chief of the Cincinnati Com-
mercial Tribune and was later on the
staff of the New York Times. In_ the
magazine world he has been managing
editor of the Ladies Home Journal for
the Curtis Publishing Company and
executive editor of McCall’s and Red
Book.

1912

Retired Army Colonel PAUL ROCKWELL
spent a good part of the 1967 summer
visiting in France and Russia. He was
invited to France by the French govern-
ment to participate in the unveiling of
a new monument to the Lafayette Es-
cadrille. Rockwell’s brother was a member
of the famed group of American aviators
who fought with the French in World
War I. Colonel Rockwell himself served
as a member of the French Foreign
Legion. After returning to his home in
Asheville, North Carolina, Rockwell left
on July goth for a tour of Russia ac-
companied by Rear Admiral Neil Phillips.
In Russia, he said, is found a curious
combination of freedom and_ suppres-
sion. In Rockwell’s opinion, there is no
hope for long-time peaceful co-existence
with communist Russia.

1921

Since the first of this year Dr. DANIEL
Bain has been the superintendent of
Philadelphia State Hospital (Byberry).
Byberry is a city in itself—a population
including 6,000 patients, 2,000 staff, and
3,000 out-patients. As a town, Byberry
provides a full range of a million tons
of merchandise annually. It is the center
of a great humanitarian industry, the
repair of emotionally handicapped human
beings with a goal of restoring them to as
healthy a life as possible. Dr. Blain’s
impressive background in psychiatry in-
cludes the presidency of the American
Psychiatric Association, the headship of
California’s Department of Mental Hy-
giene, a consultant in psychiatry to Penn-
sylvania State prior to this appointment,
and clinical professor of psychiatry at the
University of Pennsylvania.

1923

A retired Assistant to Chief Engineer for
the Seaboard Coast Line Railroad Com-
pany, ANDREW H. Harriss, JRr., has been
honored by the U. S. Army. Also a re-
tired Brigadier General, Mr. Harriss is

FALL 1967

‘ 5
IAL ALLO IBN. nok SER, RO

 

Future alumni from Houston, Texas, get into the Washington and Lee “swing” of
things at this fall’s Freshman Camp. They are (left to right) STEVE ABy, WADE ‘TAYLOR,
FreD WiILtiAMs, and BArry LEATON. The University enrolled 355 freshmen this year, and

17 of them came from Houston.

chairman of the Army Advisory Commit-
tee and was recently presented with the

Third U. 8. Army Certificate of Apprecia-

tion by the Headquarters Division of the
Third U. S. Army at Ft. McPherson,
Georgia. General Harriss was cited for
“significant and enduring contributions
made to the Third Army commanders

from July 19, 1965, to July 31, 1967.”

1925

The Judge for Dade County, Florida,
GEORGE T. CLARK, was recently installed
as the president of the Florida County

 

ARTHUR P. BONDURANT, ’28

Judges Association. ‘The ceremony took
place at the Holiday Inn, Miami Beach,
in July.

1926

Frep C. Bear is chairman of the Mont-
gomery (Ala.) County Board of Educa-
tion. Recently he received an award, on
behalf of the County Board of Education,
from the National Association of Class-
room Teachers for contributing to quality
education. The local board was the only
State group to receive such an award and
was one of six in the southeast to be
so honored.

1927

A Johnson City, Tennessee, businessman,
ALLEN Harris has been appointed to the
Board of Trustees of the Tennessee De-
partment of Mental Health. His appoint-
ment to the Board was made for an eight-
year term by Governor Buford Ellington.
The President of Harris Manufacturing
Company, Mr. Harris has served as chair-
man of the Operating Committee of the
Johnson City Mental Health Center since
its origination in 1954.

1928

Glenmore Distilleries Company of Louis-
ville, Kentucky, has promoted ARTHUR P.
BONDURANT to First Vice President,
Marketing. Mr. Bondurant, also a Director
of the Company, had previously been
Vice President and Advertising Director.
He is married to the former Elizabeth
Kelley Hillerich and the couple has two
daughters. The family lives in Louisville.

GRAHAM MCKINNON, JR., is Project Engi-
neer for dredging San Juan Harbor in

25

Puerto Rico for Western Contracting
Corporation. Western Contracting Corpo-
ration has just completed building a
harbor for Phillips Petroleum of Guay-
ama, Puerto Rico.

WILLIAM 'T. OweN has been elected vice-
president, secretary and treasurer of the
New York ‘Telephone Company, effective
October 1, 1967. Mr. Owen joined the
New York ‘Telephone Company in 1928
and has held a number of posts in the
financial department. In 1952 he was
named supervisor of the company’s newly
created Defense Bond Bureau. Mr. Owen
became assistant secretary and_ assistant
treasurer in 1951 and in 1958 was named
treasurer of the company. He is also a
director of the Bank of Commerce in
New York City.

1929

WILLIAM A. MAcDOoNouGH, retired Ex-
ecutive Vice President of Tatham, Laird,
Kudner Advertising Agency in New York,
was elected to the National Board of
Directors of the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fra-
ternity at their national convention in
Cleveland, Ohio, in September. He will
serve a term of six years. Mr. MacDonough
has been a past president of the fra-
ternity’s New York City Alumni Chapter
and has served on the faculty for three
of the fraternity’s national leadership
academies.

1930

Dr. IpuUs DeRRELL Feber, JR., has been
elected president of the Fulton County
Teachers Association (Atlanta, Georgia)
for the coming year.

1931

Dr. ARTHUR W. PHELPs has returned to
William and Mary after a year as an ex-
change professor in law at the University
of Exeter in England.

WILLIAM ‘T. Owen, ’28

26

1933

Joun VF. WArLINGTON, JR., president of
the Wachovia Bank & ‘Trust Co., Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, has been elected
to the board of directors of Georgia-
Pacific Corporation, large forest products
and natural resources company. Mr. Watl-
ington has been associated with Wachovia
since 1933 and its president since 1956.
Currently he is chairman of the commit-
tee on federal relationships of the Associa-
tion of Reserve City Bankers, chairman
of the retirement committee of American
Bankers Association, a trustee of Union
Theological Seminary, and a member of
the Duke University Development Pro-
gram. He also serves as a director of
Colonial Stores, Piedmont Aviation,
American Enka, Piedmont Natural Gas,
American ‘Thread, Thomasville Furniture
and Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance
Company.

1934

Fred FUNKHOUSER, a Harrisonburg banker,
has been elected president of the Stuart
Hall Foundation. ‘The Foundation is an
organization comprised of parents of
former and current students, alumni and
others of the Staunton, Virginia, girls’
school.

1935

Henry L. RAVENHORsT, professor of engi-
neering at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, was recently re-appointed to a
six-year term on the Lexington, Virginia
City Planning Commission. Professor
Ravenhorst is a Director of the Rock-
bridge Broadcasting Corporation, a certi-
fied architect, and a past president of the
Lions Club.

1936

I. ANGUS POWELL, a Richmond business

JouHN F. WATLINGTON, JR., °33

and civic leader, has been elected rector
of the Board of Visitors of Longwood
College, Farmville, Virginia. Mr. Powell,
president of the Lea Companies, is active
in many charitable, civic, and education-
al groups in the Richmond area. He
is a member of the board of trustees
of the Collegiate Schools and also of Union
Theological Seminary. He is a member
of the board of directors of the Virginia
Manufacturers Association, the Southern
Furniture Manufacturers —_ Association,
Southern Industrial Relations Conference
Board, and First and Merchants National
Bank of Richmond.

1937

At a meeting early in September of the
Lexington City Council, DouGLAs E. BRADY
was sworn in for his second term as
Mayor of Lexington. The term is for
two years. Mayor Brady is also. the
Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds
at Washington and Lee University.

HARRY ‘IT. MoreLAnp, who has been resi-
dent manager for the Maryland Casualty
Company at their Cleveland, Ohio, branch
for the last several years, is being trans-
ferred to the Minneapolis, Minnesota,
office where he has been appointed the
resident vice president for the Maryland
Casualty Company. Mr. Moreland has had
more than thirty years’ experience in the
property and casualty field. He and _ his
wife, Mary, and son, Richard, will live
in Edina, Minnesota.

1938

Cmdr. WILLIAM B. Bacsey, USNR, is
retiring from active Naval service and
is joining the Norfolk office of ‘Thomas
Rutherford Bonding and Insurance Com-
pany. Bagbey, following graduation in
1938, was on the news staff of the Roa-
noke World News before entering World
War II. He was later state editor of the

 

HARRY ‘Tl’. MORELAND, ’37

«

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

World News when he was recalled to
active duty during the Korean War in
1951. He has served on four destroyers
and was commanding officer of the USS
Keppler; chief staff officer of a destroyer
development group at Newport, Rhode
Island; and was officer in charge of a field
training group in Germany. His last
assignment was on the staff of commander
operational test and evaluation force in
Norfolk. Bagbey and his wife, the former
Lelia Cocke of Roanoke, will continue to
live at Virginia Beach.

Judge JAMes M. DAvipson presided over
a training session for juvenile court judges
in Richmond in October. The session was
co-sponsored by the Virginia Department
of Welfare and Institutions and the Vir-
ginia Council for Juvenile Court Judges.
Judge Davidson was elected for another
year as president of the Virginia Council
for Juvenile Court Judges.

1939

The appointment by President Johnson
of JoHN A. MAcKenziE for a_ federal
judgeship on the bench of the U. S.
District Court for the Eastern District
for Virginia has been confirmed by the
Senate. MacKenzie has managed several
political campaigns and has served two

Keland Is an

Willard H. (Bud) Keland, ’41,
who played football at Washington
and Lee, is now part owner of
a football team of his own—the
Miami Dolphins of the American
Football League.

Meanwhile, in Wisconsin, Mr.
Keland is engaged in carrying out
a dream of the late Frank Lloyd
Wright, one of America’s most fam-
ous architects.

Mr. Keland, former vice presi-
dent of S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc.,
in Racine, Wis., the wax manu-
facturing firm, now owns together
with Joe Robbie, a Minneapolis
lawyer, ‘“‘almost go per cent” of the
Dolphin stock. According to news
reports from Miami, it was the
Keland-Robbie team-up that fend-
ed off attempts to wrest control of
the professional football team from
Mr. Robbie and helped straighten
out other financial difficulties.

Mr. Keland said he had been
looking for a sound investment in

FALL 1967

 

GEORGE H. VANTA, ’39

terms in the State House of Delegates,
from 1954 to 1958. In addition to his many
civic responsibilities, MacKenzie is presi-
dent of the Portsmouth Chamber of Com-
merce.

 

Dr. Epwarp F. Burrows, chairman of the
history department at Guilford College
in Greensboro, North Carolina, was ap-
pointed a fellow in the Duke Interna-
tional Studies Program for the summer
and this fall will be affiliated as a Post
Doctoral Fellow at the Institute of African
Studies with the University of California
at Los Angeles. Afterwards Dr. Burrows
plans extensive visits to Africa, the Near
East and the Far East.

The appointment of GrorGE H. VANTA
to the position of Regional Sales Man-
ager for the Eutectic Welding Alloys
Corporation has been announced. Eutectic
is a leading producer of welding alloys,
welding equipment and accessories for the
maintenance, repair and fabrication of
industrial structures and machinery. In
his new position Mr. Vanta is responsible
for customer service and sales in an area
encompassing Florida, southern Alabama,
southern Georgia, and Puerto Rico. Before
joining Eutectic in 1962 as a Technical
Representative, Mr. Vanta gained man-
agement and technical experience in the
heating and equipment field. He is a
charter member of the Central Florida
Chapter of the American Welding Society
and lives in Orlando, Florida, with his
wife, Betty, and their two children.

Owner of the Miami Dolphins

pro football and once considered
the Philadelphia Bulldogs before
he learned that Miami stock was
available. Mr. Keland and Mr. Rob-
bie bought out the Dolphin in-
terests of actor-entertainer Danny
‘Thomas, the George Hamids of
Atlantic City, and Martin Decker
of Philadelphia.

Mr. Keland, still husky and ro-
bust, also played football at St.
John’s Military Academy in Dela-
field, Wis., where George Wilson,
the Dolphin head coach, also play-
ed.

“T think this city is a natural,
and I’m most interested in build-
ing a good image for the fans in
Miami,” Mr. Keland said of his
entry into the football business in
Miami. A Miami sports writer
wrote that as an image-maker Mr.
Keland “is bound to help the club.”

Mr. Keland has many other busi-
ness interests. He resigned his post
with Johnson last year to become

president of the Wisconsin River
Development Corp., a firm that is
developing a 4,000-acre, multi-mil-
lion-dollar resort and _ residential
complex near Spring Green in
southern Wisconsin. The site of
the development is hill country
surrounding ‘Taliesin, the famed
home of Frank Lloyd Wright. The
community will carry out an archi-
tectural legacy left by Frank Lloyd
Wright, and Mr. Keland’s firm is
purchasing the Taliesin land from
the Wright Foundation.

A restaurant, following a Wright
design, has already been opened.
Development plans include an 18-
hole golf course, a resort hotel, ski
lodge, residential development,
marina, airstrip and many other
facilities.

Wright’s followers have described
Mr. Keland’s development as being
in keeping with longtime dreams
of the late architect to develop the
countryside into a carefully plan-
ned and designed community.

27

 

WILLIAM M. READ, ’40

1940

WILLIAM M. READ has been named man-
ager of personnel administration of At-
lantic Richfield Company. Read, director
of personnel development and safety of
the company since 1964, joined Atlantic
Richfield in 1943 as a personnel assistant.
He was named assistant director of train-
ing in 1948 and director of personnel
training and development in 1953. Read
and his wife, the former Esther Donahoo,
have two daughters and one son and the
family lives in Media, Pennsylvania.

Dr. RopertT S. HUTCHESON, JR., of Roa-
noke, and a native of Lexington, was
elected president of the State Board of
Health September 14th. The seven-mem-
ber State Board of Health is appointed
by the Government and has authority over
the operation of the State Health De-
partment. Dr. Hutcheson served his in-
ternship at Pennsylvania Hospital in
Philadelphia; he was in the Navy from
1944 to 1946; Dr. Hutcheson held a fel-
lowship in internal medicine at the
Ochsner Clinic in New Orleans from 1947
to 1950 and has been engaged in the
private practice of internal medicine in
Roanoke since 1950. He holds staff ap-
pointments at the Community Hospital
of Roanoke Valley and Roanoke Memorial
Hospital and is a consultant in internal
medicine to the Veterans Administration
Hospital in Roanoke.

Announcement has just been made by the
Vulcan Division of Reeves Brothers, In-
corporated, of the appointment of Curtis
T. MONTGOMERY to the position of plant
manager of the Vulcan plant in Buena
Vista, Virginia. Mr. Montgomery, a native
of Rockbridge County, has been employ-
ed by Reeves in Buena Vista since 1954,
serving in capacities of plant chemist and
technical director. He is a member of the
Rubber Division of the American Chemi-

28

 

James G. LAPLANTE, ’43

cal Society and an elder in the Buena
Vista Presbyterian Church.

With some 15 years of experience in daily
and weekly newspapers, GILBERT GARDNER
has moved to the position of associate
editor with the Food Trade News, a trade
publication published by the North
American Publishing Company.

1941

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Morton D. BARKER,
Jr., a fifth son, Paul Edward, on January
23, 1967. Mort is associated with the
Barker-Lubin Company, in Springfield,
Illinois, a lumber and building materials

firm.
1942

In mid-September Dr. EpMuND M. Foun-
TAIN, a Houston neurosurgeon, joined
Project HOPE’s medical teaching-treat-
ment mission to Cartegena, Colombia, as
a volunteer aboard the floating medical
center SS Hope. He previously served
with Project HOPE missions to Ecuador
and Guinea.

Dean Rusk, Secretary of State, has an-
nounced the appointment of Epwarp M.
Korry as the new United States Ambas-
sador to Chile. Korry is not a man cut
from the traditional ambassadorial mold.
Before President Kennedy brought him
into the world of diplomacy he had been
a National Broadcasting Company page,
a prize-winning reporter for the United
Press, and finally, the man most re-
sponsible for recasting aid policies to
Africa. He has been ambassador to
Ethiopia prior to his recent assignment.
Korry’s experience in Africa led to the
widely praised Korry Report, a docu-
ment that urged cutbacks in arms de-
liveries and emphasis on economic de-
velopment. From his work with United
Press, he became Bureau Chief for France
and her overseas possessions. In 1954 he

joined Look Magazine as a global cor-
respondent. Korry entered Harvard's
eraduate business school in 1960 for an
intensive advanced management course.
President Kennedy gave him the Ethiopia
assignment in 1962. Mr. Korry and _ his
linquistically talented wife, the former
Patricia McCarthy, have four children.

1943

JouN Epwarp Zompro, Jr., is the new
regional sales manager for Sunkist Grow-
ers, Inc. He has been with Sunkist for
twenty-one years in various capacities. His
home is in Palos Verdes Peninsula, Cali-
fornia.

James G. LAPLANTE has been elected
Secretary-Treasurer of Industrial In-
demnity Company. He has been with the
multiple-line insurance organization for
eighteen years and became assistant trea-
surer in 1964. LaPlante is a member of the
Insurance Accountants Association.

In 1952 LAWRENCE W. GALLOWAY joined
the Davison Chemical Company in Balti-
more, Maryland, which is now the W. R.
Grace and Company. Presently Larry is
regional manager for the Midwest and
supervises Grace plants in Lansing, Michi-
gan; Nashville, Tennessee; New Albany,
Indiana; Columbus, Ohio, and a new
ammonium phosphate plant in Henry,
Illinois.

ALLEN Jetr SHARITZ is an archivist with
the Air Force Motion Picture Film De-
pository at Wright-Patterson Air Force
Base in Ohio.

FRANK L. PASCHAL, JR., last year attended
the first meeting of the International Ra-
diation Protection Association in Rome,
Italy, where he presented a paper on the

program.
1945

ArTHuR V. MILONA has been named as-
sistant director of a northern Virginia
adult education center. The center, de-
signed to serve as a model for a program
of national significance, will be operated
by Alexandria, Arlington and Fairfax
County under a federal grant. Mr. Milton
resigned his position as assistant state
supervisor of adult basic education in
order to accept this new post. The cen-
ter will also be a practical laboratory for
adult education. It will aim to prepare
under-educated adults in that area, speci-
fically for entrance into the clerical job
market in Washington, D. C.

1949

The Board of Directors of the First Na-
tional Bank of Lexington, Va., has elected
Ropert A. SHIELDS to the position of
senior vice president and_ trust officer.
Mr. Shields has been with the bank for
the last fourteen years. He is a mem-
ber of the board of directors of a number
of corporations and is an elder in the
New Monmouth Presbyterian Church.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1950

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. Ropert V. Joet,
a son, Robert Werner Joel, on April 27,
1967. Young Robert joins a sister five
years old and a brother four years old,
and the family live in Jacksonville,
Florida.

The American Viscose Division, FMC
Corporation, has announced the appoint-
ment of ANDREW J. GALLAGHER, JR.. as
distributions operations manager in the
Film Operations Distribution Department.
Mr. Gallagher has been with American
Viscose Film Operations since 1955 when
he joined the cellophane-manufacturing
plant in Fredericksburg, Virginia. Since
1957 he has been located at Marcus
Hook, Pennsylvania, a film plant where,
in addition to serving as head of several
manufacturing departments, he has been
industrial engineer and personnel man-
ager.

RoBert U. GOopMAN, prominent Shreve-
port attorney and assistant State Attorney
General, has been named to the Board of
Directors of the Pioneer Bank and Trust
Company. Goodman’s father had served
as a director since the bank’s organiza-
tion until his death in July, 1967. Bob
Goodman has practiced law in Shreveport
since 1955. He was selected as a finalist
in the Shreveport Jaycees Outstanding
Young Man competition. Active in num-
erous Civic organizations, Goodman is a
member of the Board of Directors of
Family and Children Services, a United
Fund agency, and is a past president of
the Goodwill Industries. He is on the
board of the Southfield School. In addi-
tion to his civic activities. Goodman is a
member of the Board of Directors of
Hicks-Jackson Corp., Shreveport Bud-
weiser Distributors, Inc., and Allied Sheet
Metal and Blowpipe, Inc.

The Atlantic National Bank of Jackson-

JAck FE. KANNAPELL, JR., ’51

FALL 1967

 

JoHN H. McCorMack, Jr., ’50

ville, Florida, has announced that its vice-
president, JOHN H. McCorMAck, Jr., has
been elected chairman of the Board of
Directors of the Springfield Atlantic Bank.
McCormack is a native of Pensacola,
Florida, attended Episcopal High School
in Alexandria, Virginia, and did graduate
work at the School of Banking at Louisi-
ana State University. He is a Navy veteran
and served as a sales representative for
Armstrong Cork Company before joining
the Atlantic National Bank in 1957 as
assistant vice-president. He was promoted
to vice-president in 1962 and the follow-
ing year was appointed head of the Busi-
ness Development Department. Mr. Mc-
Cormack is active in all civic affairs and
is presently serving on the Jacksonville
Chamber of Commerce, the Committee of
One Hundred, and as president of the
Timuquana Country Club.

Joun J. FLoon, ’51

1951

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS P. WIN-
BORNE, a son, Thomas P., Jr., on May a9,
1967, in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Resigning as vice president and treasurer
of Percy Galbreath & Son, a mortgage
banking firm in Memphis, Tennessee,
SAMUEL B. Ho .uis will become treasurer
of Plough, Incorporated, in mid-Novem-
ber. Hollis, after graduating from the
school of mortgage banking of Northwest-
ern University, served as executive as-
sistant to Mayor Edmund Orgill from
1957 to 1960 and joined the Galbreath
firm in 1960. He has been a commissioner
of the Memphis Light, Gas and Water
Division since June, 1964. Mr. Hollis was
recently elected vice-president-at-large of
the Episcopal Churchmen of Tennessee.
He and his wife, Jane, have three children.

Jack E. KANNAPELL, JR., has been ap-
pointed Vice-president and Director of
Advertising and Sales Promotion for
Glenmore Distilleries Company of Louis-
ville, Kentucky. Before joining Glenmore
in 1965 as advertising manager Jack was
associated with Foote, Cone & Belding
Advertising in Chicago.

JOHN J. FLoop has been named secretary
of the New Hampshire Insurance Com-
pany, in charge of its bond department.
Engaged as company counsel since 1955,
he has been specializing in bonds. Flood
is a native of Brattleboro, Vermont.

FRANK S. DAvinson is a staff engineer in
the Space and Range Systems Department
of the IBM Corporation’s Engineering
Laboratory at Gaithersburg, Maryland.
In this department equipment is designed
and developed to assist in the deep space
probes by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory
of Cal Tech. Frank holds an engineering
degree from the University of Virginia

 

SAMUEL B. HOLLIs, ’51

29

and this fall will receive the master of
science degree in engineering from George
Washington University. He has _ filed
jointly with IBM four patent disclosures
in the field of Information and Communi-
cation Systems.

South Jersey Mortgage Company has an-
nounced the promotion of THomAs C.
MARTIN to vice-president. Martin has
been with South Jersey Mortgage for seven
years. Prior to his promotion he was per-
sonnel and office manager. Martin is a
member of the board of governors of the
New Jersey Bankers Associaion. He and
his wife have four sons.

WitttAM E. DANIEL, JR., a Richmond
insurance executive, has been named a
member of the board of visitors of Long-
wood College by Governor Mills E. God-
win, Jr. Mr. Daniel is an agency director
of the State Farm Insurance Company. He
is married to a graduate of Longwood
College, the former Ruth Pleasants Rowe,
and the couple has three children.

1952

MARRIED: Dr. WILLIAM JAMES KEN-
NETH ROCKWELL and Meta Allen Eberdt
were married in the Navy Chapel in
Washington, D. C., on September 6, 1967.
The couple spent some time in Vienna,
Budapest, Madrid and Brussels in Sep-
tember and are now living in Tusca-
loosa, Alabama, where Ken is director of
mental health, student health service, at
the University of Alabama.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. Ecuoits A. HANS-
BARGER, JR., a son, Jeffrey Lee, on July
2, 1967. Dr. Hansbarger is_ practicing
medicine in Lynchburg, Virginia, where
he and his wife and their three other
children make their home.

At a ceremony forty miles southeast of
South Vietnam’s capital city of Saigon,
COMMANDER ROBERT F. CONNALLY  as-
sumed duties as Senior U. S. Naval Adviser
to the Commander of the Third Viet-
namese Coastal Zone. Commander Con-
nally joined the Navy in 1952. He is
married to the former Roberta Shapins
of Long Beach, California.

HucH C. Newton has been named di-
rector of public relations for the Air
Transport Association of America. He
comes to the ATA from the National
Right to Work Committee where he was
director of public relations. His previous
positions include public relations work
with Carnegie Institute of ‘Technology.
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Bur-
son-Marsteller Associates, the Rockwell
Manufacturing Company, and the Reyn-
olds Metals Company. Mr. Newton's
awards include the Public Relations So-
ciety of America’s Silver Anvil and the
Freedom Foundation of Valley Forge’s
George Washington Medal.

RANDOLPH G. WHITTLE, JR., resigned the
city managership of Bluefield, West Vir-
ginia, in August, 1966, and is now As-
sistant Director of the Regional Planning
Council, Baltimore, Maryland.

1953

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JASHA A. DRABEK,
a daughter, Amy Houghton, on May 24,
1967. Jasha is corporate attorney for
AVM Corporation in Jamestown, New
York.

Joun D. Macurre, a religion professor
at Wesleyan University in Middletown,
Conn., has left the classrooms to act as
associate provost during the first year
of the new president, Edwin D. Ether-
ington. The main task given Dr. Maguire
is the compiling of a series of policy
papers which will lead the new president
with a master plan for Wesleyan.

WILLIAM L. CusAc has received a_pro-
motion and is now manager of the J. C.
Penney store in Hartsville, South Carolina.

1954

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. BRIAN CROWLEY, a
daughter, Laura Hope, on March 3, 1967,
in Bethesda, Maryland. Brian has _re-
cently been appointed assistant clinical
professor of psychiatry at George Wash-
ington University School of Medicine. He
is in the practice of psychoanalysis and
community psychiatry in Bethesda and
Silver Spring, Maryland.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. OverRTON P. POL-
LARD, a daughter, Ann Kusterer, on Au-
eust 4, 1967. The couple has two sons and
two daughters and the family lives in
Richmond, Virginia.

Willett Becomes President of Longwood College

Henry I. Willett, Jr., ’52, has
become at the age of 36 the presi-
dent of Longwood College in Farm-
ville, Va. He became ‘the sixth
Washington and Lee alumnus to
head a senior institution of higher
education in the United States.

Dr. Willett until he assumed his
new position was assistant superin-
tendent of schools in Chesapeake,
Va., a post he had held since 1963.
His colleagues have described his
career in public education as “me-
teoric.”’

Longwood College in Prince Ed-
ward County is one of the nation’s
oldest teacher-education colleges
and is a state-supported institution.

Dr. Willett holds the master’s and
doctorate degrees from the Uni-
versity of Virginia and began his

30

teaching career in old Norfolk
County in 1955 at Churchland Ele-
mentary School and was later prin-
cipal of elementary and junior high
schools. When the City of Chesa-
peake was formed in 1963, he was
promoted to assistant superinten-
dent of schools, a post in which
he reached distinction in develop-
ing programs of teacher instruction
and in expediting a capital expan-
sion program costing $20 million.

Dr. Willett comes from a family
of educators. His father is the
superintendent of schools in Rich-
mond, and the Virginian-Pilot of
Norfolk commented _ editorially,
“Indeed, from childhood, young
Dr. Willett has had a model of a
schoolman in his affably presistent
father, now superintendent of Rich-
mond Public Schools and one of the

nation’s leading educators. ‘The
son’s appointment to lead Long-
wood, and hopefully, enlighten
Farmville, seems both imaginative
and sound.”

He is married to the former Mary
Madison Turner of Richmond,
whose father is assistant executive
secretary of the Virginia Education
Association. ‘They have three sons,

Rodney, 4; Scott, 3, and John
Todd, 1.
Other Washington and_ Lee

alumni who are presidents of col-
leges or universities are: Edgar F.
Shannon, 39, University of Vir-
ginia; Luther W. White, III, ‘49,
Randolph-Macon College; Harry
M. Philpott, ’38, Auburn Univer-
sity; F. Edward Lund, ’33, Kenyon
College; Lloyd FE. Worner, ’40,
Colorado College.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

SENATOR EVERETT DIRKSEN, REPRESENTATIVE RICHARD POFF, and ROBERT E. BRADFORD, 54.

RosBert E. BrApForp has been chosen by
his colleagues as the oustanding Ad-
ministrative Assistant to a Republican
Congressman or Senator. In a vote by
his colleagues, Bradford outpolled his
nearest competitor by a margin of nearly
eight-to-one. He received a specially in-
scribed plaque at a luncheon in Wash-
ington. The presentation was made by
the Senate Minority Leader, Senator
Everett Dirksen, who is shown above with
Bradford’s Congressman Richard Poff
(R.Va.) and Bradford.

One of the oldest continuously operat-
ing companies in the Cleveland, Ohio,
area and probably the oldest office furni-
ture company in the nation, the Taylor
Chair Company has anounced _ that
JosepH ‘TAyLor MEALs will assume the
office of president. Mr. Meals represents
the sixth generation of the same family
to head the chair company and is its
youngest president to date. Mr. Meals
began with the company after gradua-
tion in 1954 as a sales representative in
the southeastern states and in 1958 was
moved up to vice-president in charge of
sales. Following two years as sales repre-
sentative in New York City, he returned
to Cleveland to continue his sales activi-
ties from the plant.

Starting his third year in Paris, France,
RosertT O. GLASIER is with Graham
Parker, industrial and technical consult-
ant firm. The Glasiers expect to come
back to the States in 1968.

THe Rev. RicHArp A. BuscH, who for
five years has been assistant rector at
All Saints Episcopal Church in Beverly
Hills, California, will become Vicar at
St. Paul’s Episcopal Church in Tustin,
California. The Tustin church has six
hundred communicant members.

STEPHEN SLOAN, partner in Milton Barkin,
Stephen Barkin, and Stephen Sloan, a

FALL 1967

New York real estate investment firm, has
purchased an 18-story office building at
26 Beaver Street in New York. This pur-
chase represents the buyer’s third major
acquisition within the last year. The other
two are the Tech Plaza Shopping Center
in Warren, Michigan, and Whitehall Plaza
Apartments in State College, Pennsyl-
vania.

1956

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. MArK B. DAvIs,
Jr., a daughter, Catherine Shannon, on
July 27, 1967. The family lives in Louis-
ville, Kentucky, where Mark is associ-
ated with the law firm of Payne and
Davis.

JAMEs W. Lewis has been appointed prin-
cipal of the Upper School of Grosse

    

Sone Sitesiaeice sig SS es Ne. ns
Dr. CARL F. BARNES, ’57

 

Pointe University School in Grosse

Pointe, Michigan.

R. Gordon Goocnu, Houston attorney and
native of Fort Worth, was named as the
outstanding young lawyer in ‘Texas for
1967. The award, by the State Junior Bar
of ‘Texas, was presented at the quarterly
meeting of the organization’s directors
in September. Gooch has served on several
key committees of the Houston and the
state bar association. He is secretary and
trustee of the Houston Legal Foundation.

CHARLES A. MACINTOSH is leaving the
Genessee Hospital of Rochester, New York,
where he has been Assistant Director, to
accept a new position as Assistant Director
of the Greater Baltimore Medical Cen-
ter. Prior to the Genessee Hospital, Mr.
MacIntosh had been with the Lankenau
Hospital in Philadelphia. Mr. MacIntosh
is married to the former Elizabeth Cabell
Dugdale of Ashland, Virginia, and the
couple has three children.

1957

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Morron P. ILer,
a son, Douglas Gordon, on September 14,
1967, in New York, New York. Mort has
been with the Continental Oil Company
since his graduation from the Harvard
Business School in 1964. He is currently
Assistant to the Vice President and Gen-
eral Manager, Petrochemical Department.
He and Martha are living in Manhattan.

Former atorney, PAUL SPECKMAN, Jr., has
now become vice-president of L. P. Iazza
Wholesale Florist, Inc., in Oakland, Cali-
fornia. The firm specializes in growing
carnations and roses.

Attending graduate school at Columbia
University, Dr. CARL F. BARNEs, JR., re-
ceived his master of arts degree in 1959
and his Ph. D. in 1967. His work is gen-
erally in the field of art history and speci-
fically in medieval architecture. A mem-
ber of the faculty of Pennsylvania State
University from 1960 to 1966, Dr. Barnes
Was appointed assistant professor of art
history at the University of Wisconsin-
Milwaukee, a position he presently holds.

Loren A. Mintz has been elected presi-
dent and chief executive officer of Shaker
Savings Association in Shaker Heights,
Ohio. The savings association is one of
the major savings and loan associations in
the greater Cleveland area. Mr. Mintz be-
gan with Shaker Savings Association dur-
ing summer vacations from 1942 until
he joined the staff on a full-time basis
in 1959. He has been executive vice-presi-
dent and secretary and, since 1962, a
director. He is a director and treasurer
of the Shaker Heights Chamber of Com-
merce, a member of the Master Plan Ad-
visory Committee, and a member of the
Welfare Fund Planning Committee.

1958

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. DONALD L. DUNCAN,
a son, Thomas Lloyd, on February 28,

31

1967. Dr. Duncan is in his third year of
a general surgery residency at City of
Memphis Hospitals in Memphis, ‘Ten-
nessee.

Firth Sterling, Inc., of Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania, has appointed HAROLD ROBERT
GILLEsPIE as Chicago district manager.
Mr. Gillespie joined the company’s per-
sonnel department in 1951 and later be-
came a Steel Division sales engineer in
New York, then in Chicago. As district
manager he will be responsible for sales
and service of cutting tools, wear-resistant
surfacing and other tungsten carbide pro-
ducts in approximately eleven states.

Directors of the Wachovia Bank and
Trust Company in Charlotte, North Caro-
lina, have elected WitLtiAmM A. ‘TOWLER,
III, a vice-president. Towler joined
Wachovia in 1961 in Winston-Salem and
Was assistant manager of operations there
before moving to Charlotte as operations
manager in 1964. He was elected assistant
cashier in 1964 and assistant vice-president
in 1965. He is a member of the Charlotte
Chamber of Commerce, instructor and
second vice-president of the Charlotte
Chapter of the American Institute of
Banking, and assistant treasurer of the
Charlotte Nature Museum. Towler is mar-
ried to the former Edith C. Graves of
Petersburg, Virginia, and the couple has
two sons.

1959

MARRIED: Henry P. PAaut and Miss
Christina Beall were married October 14,
1967, in Charlotte, North Carolina,
where the couple is now living. Henry
is working for the Hercules, Inc., as an
explosives salesman and his wife works
with the National Red Cross as a medical
technologist.

BORN: CaAprAin and Mrs. B. R. WILK-
ERSON, JR., a daughter, Catherine Louise
Wilkerson, on August 5, 1967. Captain
Wilkerson is presently stationed in San
Antonio, Texas.

The Manufacturers & Traders Trust Com-
pany of Buffalo, New York, has announced
the election of ArTHUR F. HENNING as an
assistant vice-president. Mr. Henning will
be responsible for the accounts in the
Midwest and West. He joined the bank’s
management training program in 1960
and was elected an assistant secretary in
the National Division in 1963.

JouN G. Koeper, Jr., of Mt. Lebanon,
Pennsylvania, has been elected assistant
vice-president in the Commercial Bank-
ing Division of the Pittsburgh National
Bank. Koedel joined the bank in 19509.
He and his wife, Fay, have a two-year
old son.

Transferring from retail banking, CHARLES
E. WELLMAN has been transferred to the
personnel divisions of the Pittsburgh Na-
tional Bank. He will handle assignments

42

 

CHARLES E. WELLMAN, "59

in employment and training. Most re-
cently, Mr. Wellman has been assistant
manager of the bank’s Clairton Office. He
was elected assistant secretary in Decem-
ber, 1966. He and his wife, Barbara, have
one son and the family lives in Pleasant
Hills, Pennsylvania.

1960

MARRIED: Rosert Lee Hytton and
Judith Rae Surgeont were married August
12, 1967. Mr. Hylton teaches junior and
senior English at Maury High School in
Norfolk, Virginia, and is president of the
District L Tidewater Association of Teach-
ers of English.

Dr. JAMEs B. Ducketr holds the rank
of Captain at the U. S. Air Force Hospital
at Carswell Air Force Base in Fort Worth,
Texas, where he is an anesthesiologist.
Jim will have duty on this assignment
for the next two years. He and his wife,
Sue, have a daughter three years old and
a younger son.

Buena Vista, Virginia, attorney, JosErH
E. Hess, has been appointed municipal
judge for Lexington, Virginia. He will
serve as judge of the juvenile and domes-
tic relations court also. Hess is a member
of the firm of Kiser and Hess, a past-
president of the Rockbridge County-
Buena Vista-Lexington Bar Association,
and is the current president of the Buena
Vista Jaycees.

Among the forty-six graduates of the
Columbia University School of Architec-
ture to be awarded the William Kinne
Fellows Memorial Traveling Fellowship
and Scholarship is RicHArD N. TAGER.
The award is for travel and study in the
United States and abroad this summer.
For several weeks the winners will travel
individually or in groups of two and
three to study European architecture, and

 

JouHN G. Koepet, JR., ’59

their studies will be presented at a three-
week seminar at Columbia’s branch in
Paris at the end of the summer.

1961

MARRIED: Epwarp ALMER AMES, Ill,
and Elizabeth Henry Mumford were mar-
ried on September g, 1967, in St. Paul’s
Episcopal Church in Berlin, Maryland.
Among the groomsmen were George E.
Honts, III, ‘62; Michael E. Bowerman,
‘65; and Douglas E. Ballard, ’64.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. DoNALD H. Part-
INGTON, a son, Philip Donald, on October
6, 1967. Don is practicing law in Pensa-
cola, Florida.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. Firtu S. SPIEGEL, a
son, Firth Samuel, Jr., on April 27, 1967.
Firth is now serving a residency in surg-
ery at Ohio State University Hospitals and
the family lives in Columbus, Ohio.

ELWIN W. LAw has become a stockbroker
in the Santa Monica, California, offices
of Paine, Webber, Jackson and Curtis.
Formerly wtih the International Division
of Firestone in Ohio, Law recently com-
pleted training courses in Santa Monica
and the (New York offices of the firm. He
is a graduate of the American Institute
for Foreign Trade and was one of fifty-
four Americans who served in London as
a Winant Volunteer—named for the
former ambassador to Great Britain.

DwicHt R. CHAMBERLAIN received his
Master’s Degree in Wildlife Management
from the Department of Forestry and
Wildlife at V.P.I. in June, 1967. The
title of his thesis is “The Vocalizations
and Syringela Anatomy of the Common
Crow, Corvus brachyrhynchos.”’ This re-
search was supported by the Frank M.
Chapman Memorial Fund of the Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History and the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Virginia Commission of Game and In-
land Fisheries. Dwight plans to continue
this and related research at the University
of Maryland in a Ph.D. program.

Paintings and prints by NorsBerT IRVINE
are now on display in the duPont Gal-
lery at Washington and Lee University.
Mr. Irvine is a native of Rockbridge
County, and following Washington and
Lee he continued his art education at
Claremont in California. For the past
four years Mr. Irvine has been teaching
at the McLean High School in Fairfax
County. Last year his students won 14
gold keys in the Washington area exhibi-
tion.

WINSTON E. Kock, JR., was appointed to
the Advertising and Promotion Depart-
ment of AVCO Broadcasting Corporation
in Cincinnati in May. He had previously
held the position of Press Information
Writer for AVOC’s television station. In
his present position Mr. Kock will work
in the area of corporate advertising and
sales promotion. After graduate work at
the Michigan Law School he began a
free-lance writing career in comedy in New
York City, writing material for the
Johnny Carson Show, “That Was _ the
Week That Was,” and for various comed-
ians. Before going to Cincinnati he was
in the promotion department of WNBC
and was a member of the Writers’ Guild
of America and the National Academy
of Television Arts and Sciences. In June
he also completed a master’s degree in
business administration at the University
of Cincinnati.

1962

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. HENry DAvip HOL-
LAND, a son, Henry David, Jr., on August
6, 1967. The family lives in Richmond,
Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. MEREDITH WIL-
LIAM Myers, a son, Meredith William,
Jr., on July 19, 1967. The young man
joins a sister, Leigh, and the family lives
in Mobile, Alabama.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE CRUGER,
a son, Peter Ian, on August 10, 1967.
The family lives in Richmond, Virginia,
where George is associated with the Vir-
ginia Museum of Fine Arts.

ALAN M. Corwin is in training at the
Hebrew Union College in Los Angeles
and in two more years expects to be
awarded the degree of Bachelor of Hebrew
Letters. He then plans to spend three
years working for the degree of Master
of Hebrew Letters at which time he will
be ordained a rabbi. At present he is
also teaching some courses in religious
schools in the Los Angeles area and acts
as rabbi on a bi-weekly basis for a small
congregation in China Lake, California.

After graduation from Virginia Law
School, R. WILLIAM Ibe, III, was clerk
for Judge Griffin Bell of the 5th Circuit
Court of Appeals before entering active

FALL 1967

duty with the Georgia Air National
Guard. In January, 1967, Bill married the
former Gayle Oliver of Atlanta. He is now
practicing law with the firm of King and
Spalding in Atlanta.

At graduation from Harvard University in
June, WiLtt1AM M. McKim, Jr., received
a Ph.D. degree in English Literature.
Effective September, 1967, he will become
an assistant professor of English at Babson
Institute of Business in Babson Park, Mas-
sachusetts.

After studying at Oxford University in
England in 1963, JOHN O. EDMUNDS, JR.,
attended the Medical School at the Uni-
versity of Florida and received his M.D.
degree in 1967. He then served externe-
ships at Stanford University, the Mayo
Clinic, and at Karolinska Hospital in
Stockholm, Sweden. Last July he began
an internship at the Ochsner Clinic in
New Orleans.

‘The First and Merchants National Bank
of Richmond, Virginia, announces the
election of JOHN W. BoyLe, Jr., formerly
of the credit division, to assistant cashier.
A native of Roanoke, Virginia, Boyle
joined First and Merchants in 1962 and,
except for two-year military leave, has
been in the Bank’s commercial training
program and presently serves as a senior
credit analyst.

1963

MARRIED: Witmor L. Harris, JRr., and
Nancy Sawtelle of Marblehead, Massa-
chusetts, were married November 11,
1967. Among the groomsmen and_ ushers
were JOHN WINEBRENNER and ‘TOM OWEN,
both of the class of 1964. Mike is in the
general practice of law with Ivey, Barnum
and O’Mara in Greenwich, Connecticut.

DAvip C. MONTGOMERY is presently work-
ing in the Business Development Depart-
ment of the Mercantile-Safe Deposit and
Trust Company in Baltimore, Maryland.
He and his wife, the former Jane Green,
live in Towson, Maryland.

Employed as a_ petroleum engineer,
ROBERT C. DEVANEY is with Gulf Oil Com-
pany in their crude oil and gas produc-
tion department in southern Louisiana.
He lives in Venice, Louisiana.

After release from Army service in July,
1967, DANIEL T. BALFOUR is now associated
with the Richmond law firm of Cohen,
Kelly and Abeloff. While in Okinawa, Dan
was awarded the Army Commendation
Medal.

After completing Army duty in June,
1966, THomas E. Bower toured Europe
before returning to the States. He is
presently working on a master’s degree in
business administration at the University
of Washington in Seattle.

CLARENCE RENSHAW, II, is now connected
with station WTAR-AM-FM in Norfolk,
Virginia, as a producer in the news de-
partment.

1964
MARRIED: CHARLES CHASTINE FLIPPEN,
Jr., and Edia Fernandez were married
June 24, 1967. The ceremony was per-
formed at St. Ann’s Church in West Palm
Beach, Florida.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. E. H. HOLLMAN, a
son, Jeffrey, on August 25, 1967. Bud is
with Price Waterhouse in St. Louis,
Missouri.

DENNIS MorGAN has accepted a_ position
in Norfolk, Virginia, as clerk for Judge
Walter E. Hoffman, chief federal judge
of the eastern district of Virginia. Mr.
Morgan received his law degree at the
Univeristy of Virginia in June, 1967.

F. J. Dray holds the rank of lieutenant
and is currently stationed with the ist
Cavalry Division in Vietnam. He is pres-
ently with the Administrative Services.

JAmes C. SMITH, JR., is now in his fourth
year of medicine at the University of
Virginia. He is married to the former
Miss Nancy Lynch of Villanova, Penn-
sylvania. The couple lives in Charlottes-
ville, Virginia.

WILLIAM H. Fiz is serving as law clerk
to Judge Leonard Walsh of the Federal
District Court in Washington, D. C. While
attending George Washington University
Law School, Bill served on the editorial
staff of the law review and was elected to
membership in the Order of the Coif.
He and his wife, the former Catherine
Williams, are living in Washington.

1965

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Stan AtTwoopn, a
son, Scott, on May 24, 1967. Stan, his wife,
Nancy, and family live in Westport,
Connecticut, where Stan is practicing law
and busily engaged in civic affairs. He is
president of the Young Republicans in
Westport; serving on the Republican
‘Town Committee, and is a member of
the Conservation Commission.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RopGer D. KELSEY,
a daughter, Allison Renee, on July 19.
1967. Roger is an attorney for the House
of Representatives of the State of Dela-
ware, as well as maintaining his private
practice in Dover, Delaware.

After completing two years with the
Peace Corp Service, PHiLip J. SIFFING is
beginning work on his master’s degree at
Johns Hopkins School of Advanced Inter-
national Studies in Washington, D. C.
He will be studying international rela-
tions and hopes to concentrate in Middle
Eastern Affairs. During his Peace Corp
service he was a teacher of English in
Ankara, Turkey.

After receiving a master’s degree in Ameri-
can History at the University of North
Carolina this June, 1967, BLAINE A.
BROWNELL is working on his Ph.D. re-

33

quirements. Blaine is also engaged as a
part-time history instructor at N. C. State
University in Raleigh and as a teaching
assistant on the Chapel Hill campus.

JERRY GRANT CADEN has been named a
Peace Corps Volunteer assigned to Iran
after completing twelve weeks of train-
ing at the Experiment in International
Living in Brattleboro, Vermont. He has
already arrived in Iran and will teach
English in the secondary schools and also
work with Iranian teachers to encourage
the foundation of school libraries, langu-
age clubs, and adult education classes.

1966

MARRIED: WatLAce D. NIEDRINGHAUS
and Alicia Ann Burford were married on
July 3, 1967. Wallace is employed as a
real estate consultant with a firm in St.
Louis where they make their home.

MARRIED: FRANK GRIER WAKEFIELD and
Miss Carol Davis McNeilly of Rehoboth,
Delaware, were married July 29, 1967,
in All Saints’ Episcopal Church, Rehoboth,
Delaware. Serving as best man for the
wedding was Scott Darrah, 67. Frank is
now in his second year at Jefferson Medi-
cal College in Philadelphia.

MARRIED: LEON CLYDE JOHENNING, JR.,
and Winifred Christina Hughes were mar-
ried on September 2, 1967, in Lexington,
Virginia. ‘The bride attended schools in
her native Scotland but has been in this
country for the last few years. Leon is
presently serving as a lieutenant in the
Army Corps of Engineers in Korea.

BORN: Lt. and Mrs. E. STARKE SYDNOR,
a son, Edgar Starke, Jr., on September
18, 1967. Lt. Sydnor is stationed at Ft.
Lee, Virginia.

CHARLES N. BENSINGER, JR., is married to
the former Susan Weinstock and_ the
couple lives in Louisville, Kentucky, where
Charles is working in the family furniture
stores.

After graduation from OCS at Ft. Lee,
Virginia, H. LockHArt HANDLEY, III, is
now a second lieutenant in Vietnam serv-
ing as platoon leader of an engineer
supply platoon. He writes that he is
directing the supply of a lumber yard.

Lewis O. FUNKHOUSER, JR., was promoted
in October to first lieutenant in the U. S.
Army. Funkhouser entered the Army in
October, 1966, and was stationed at Ft.
Hood, Texas. He is presently assigned as
an administrative officer in the Staff
Surgeon’s Office at the Army Administra-
tion Center in St. Louis, Missouri.

JEFFREY P. HIckoK was promoted to
first lieutenant in ceremonies near Brem-
erhaven, Germany, in August. Lt. Hickok
is chief of the Motor Division in Head-
quarters Company, 11th ‘Transportation
Terminal Command, U. S. Army Termi-
nal Command.

34

Cuarces F. CLEMENT is now associated
with Yates, Woods Company as a regist-
ered representative in the St. Louis office.
The company is a member of the New
York Stock Exchange.

1970

EpwARD LANDER SMITH, JR., has joined
the staff of the Eastern Office of the State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Com-
pany in Charlottesville, Virginia.

In Memoriam

1893

IsAAC HERBERT KEMPNER, SR., a giant of
finance, industry, philanthropy and gov-
ernment for nearly three-quarters of a
century, died July $1, 1967, in Galveston,
‘Texas. He headed H. Kempner, a trust
association, was chairman of the board
of Imperial Sugar Company, the United
States National Bank in Galveston, Sugar-
land Industries and other enterprises. Mr.
Kempner was known as Galveston’s Senior
Citizen and “Mr. Galveston.” In 1895 he
was elected a director of the Galveston
Cotton Exchange, the youngest man ever
elected to that position. Mr. Kempner’s
first venture into the field of public
service was in 1901 when he was appointed
to the governing board of Galveston and
was finance commissioner for six terms
and also served one term as mayor. He
was instrumental in getting port facility
improvements for Galveston and many
times was honored for his philanthropic
efforts. He was president and chairman
of the board of the Texas Prudential In-
surance Company, a senior member of
the New York Cotton Exchange, the
American Bankers Association and the
U. S. Chamber of Commerce.

1905

JOHN ALEXANDER Moore died in Miami,
Florida, on August 11, 1967. Mr. Moore
was president of the Biscayne Engineer-
ing Company and a resident of Miami
for fifty-four years. During his active
career in the field of engineering he was
responsible for plotting many of Miami’s
subdivisions. He had been retired since

1956.

1906

THOMAS F. MANN, a retired farmer in
Charleston, West Virginia, died August
16, 1967. Mr. Mann was a former special
representative for Armour & Company.

Retired Colonel CHERUBUSCO NEWTON, a

career Army officer, died August 29, 1967,

in the Keesler Air Force Base Hospital.
Colonel Newton was a resident of Wave-
land, Mississippi, for the past 20 years.
A native of Monroe, Louisiana, Colonel
Newton was appointed to the United
States Naval Academy following gradua-
tion from Washington and Lee. He gradu-

ated from Annapolis in 1911 and_ trans-
ferred to the Army where he served in
the finance division for 39 years.

1910

JAMEs B. BAKER, a long time resident of
Beverly, West Virginia, died July 29, 1967.
Mr. Baker was a Mason and a member
of the Shriners.

1911

Henry W. Dew, retired vice-president of
St. Joe Paper Company, died in Jackson-
ville, Florida, on June 17, 1967. Mr. Dew
came to Jacksonville in 1929 as an asso-
ciate of the late Alfred I. duPont. He
was vice-president and member of the
trust committee and Board of Directors
of the Florida National Bank. Mr. Dew
was also vice-president of Jacksonville
Properties and president of the Alfred I.
duPont Foundation. In addition to his
many civic responsibilities, Mr. Dew was
president and district governor of the
Rotary Club, president of the Florida
State Hotel Association, and a member
of the city area Planning Board. |

1912

JoHNn C. Henry, a former Greenville,
South Carolina, attorney, died on August
11, 1967, in Salisbury, North Carolina. Mr.
Henry was in the private practice of law
in Greenville for fifty-four years before
retiring in 1959.

JouN Davin ANnkrom died on July 7,
1967, in Parkersburg West Virginia. Mr.
Ankrom had been retired since 1953.
Previous to his retirement he was a con-
tractor and construction engineer, work-
ing on the construction of many plants,
dams and _ railroads.

1914

Horace Boorn, Jr., formerly in the oil
business with offices in San Antonio,
Texas, died October 1, 1967, in Liberty,

‘Texas.
1915

CLAIRBORNE W. GoocH, JR., who con-
ducted business in cigarette manufactur-
ing until his retirement, died November
13, 1967. Mr. Gooch, a resident of Rich-
mond for thirty-three years, was director
of the Imperial Colliery, Imperial Coal
Sales, and Milburn Colliery Companies of

Lynchburg, Virginia.
1917

Dr. SAMUEL PALMER HILEMAN died on
September 5, 1967, in Clifton Forge, Vir-
ginia. Dr. Hileman graduated from the
Medical College of Virginia in 1923 and
had practiced at the Catawba Sanitorium,
in Goshen, for a few months in Lex-
ington, and in Millboro, Virginia, since
1926.

1920

LEIGH BUCKNER HANES, SR., of Roanoke,
former poet laureate of Virginia and a
past president of the Roanoke Bar As-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Col. Feamster

Class of 1896

“IT realize that your particular
generation of W&L men could
scarcely have known firsthand the
depth of character and wealth of
mind and hand of this fine man,
nor very much of his accomplish-
WIENS.

Garland McClung Feamster, ‘2,
of Alderson, W. Va., wrote these
words recently to the editor of the
Alumni Magazine. He spoke of his
cousin, the late Col. Claude New-
man Feamster, 1896 graduate of
Washington and Lee.

The words have merit. For they
do more than praise a man. They
say, ““Lest we forget.” For later gen-
erations of Washington and Lee
men, preoccupied with things of
the moment, may profitably be re-
minded from time to time that
there were others before them who
were schooled at Washington and
Lee, loved their alma mater, and
sustained her by living useful, pro-
ductive lives.

So it was with Col. Feamster. He
was go years old when he died in
St. Petersburg, Fla., on July 3,
1966. His was a good life. And those

sociation, died September 2, 1967. Al-
though a lawyer, Mr. Hanes was widely
known for his literary accomplishments
in poetry. For 20 years he edited “The
Lyric,” one of the oldest poetry maga-
zines in the country. A former editor of
The Roanoke World-News, Hanes taught
contemporary British and American poetry
at Hollins College and the Roanoke
branch of the University of Virginia.

1921

ALBERT MILLING BERNSTEIN, an attorney
in Monroe, Louisiana, died May g, 1967.
At the time of his death, he had been
retired from active practice of the law
for the past several years.

1924

WILLIAM Woopby MANLEY, JR., died March
6, 1967. A native of Virginia, Mr. Manley
was at one time in the dairy business
and the real estate business in Lynchburg.

FALL 1967

 

CoL. CLAUDE N. FEAMSTER, ’96

who knew him said he was widely
loved and admired wherever he
went because of his character and
kindly understanding of people.

He went a lot of places. He was
born in Lewisburg, W. Va., the son
of a Confederate veteran. He at-
tended Washington and Lee from
1893 to 1896 and was a member of
Kappa Sigma.

He did postgraduate work at the
University of Virginia and received
a law degree there in 1901. He
practiced law for two years in San
Antonio, Texas. He entered the
U.S. Army in 1903 as a lieutenant of
infantry. His tours of duty included
two years in the Philippines, three
years in Europe, and service in the
United States and other stations.

He saw active duty in the Navy during
World War II.

1927

Eppy GILMore, a Pulitzer prize winning
correspondent of The Associated Press
who reported the wartime and postwar
Stalin era in Russia, died Friday, October
6, 1967, at his home near London, Eng-
land. Before and after his years in Russia,
Gilmore was widely known for his witty
news stories on the lighter side of life
and even in Moscow he wrote with a
light touch at times between the grimmer
episodes. He was born in Selma, Alabama,
and worked on the Atlanta Journal and
the Washington Daily News before join-
ing the Associated Press staff in Wash-
ington in 1935. Gilmore was chief of the
Associated Press Moscow bureau in the
darkest days of the Soviet defense against
the invading armies of Hitler. He re-
mained in Moscow until after the death
of Joseph Stalin in 1953.

Promoted to lieutenant colonel
in 1918, he retired from active duty
after World War I because of a
physical disability. In 1922 he was
given the retired rank of major.

He lived in Lexington for a time,
and during this period one of his
sons, Robert, attended Washington
and Lee for a year. Col. Feamster
was married to Maude Inez Sim-
mons in 1908. ‘They had two sons,
both of whom became physicians,
Robert now lives in Houston,
‘Texas, and Felix Feamster lives in
Chambersburg, Pa.

Col. Feamster found time _ for
scholarly work. He was the author
of the Calendar of the Papers of
John Jourdan Crittenden, which
was published in 1913. Crittenden
was a lawyer, a Senator, an Attorney
General of the United States, and
a Governor of Kentucky.

World War II found Col.
Feamster ready for more action. He
returned to service and saw duty in
France and Germany, remaining
three years in Germany as Zone
Claims Officer for the Army after
the war.

After his second retirement from
the service, he lived in St. Peters-
burg until his death. Mrs. Feamster
survives and lives with her son,
Felix, in Chambersburg.

1928

ERNEST S. CLARKE, JR., president of the
Citizens Union National Bank and Trust
Company of Lexington, Kentucky, died
September 4, 1967. Mr. Clarke, a former
Louisvillian, was vice president of the
Liberty National Bank and Trust Com-
pany in Louisville before moving to Lex-
ington in 1946. He was a commissioner
of the Louisville Sinking Fund during
the administration of Mayor Wilson W.
Wyatt. Mr. Clarke was treasurer of the
board of managers of the Cardinal Hill
Hospital and the Fayette committee of
the Society for Crippled Children. He
was also a member of the United States
Chamber of Commerce—economic-policy
committee—in 1959.

‘THOMAS FULLER TorREY, a_ native of
Lynchburg, Virginia, died August 17,
1967. Mr. Torrey had been an officer and
a director of the Thomas Chemical Com-

35

pany, manufacturers of chemical pro-
ducts. In his latter years he was in the
beef cattle raising business in Madison
Heights, Virginia. Mr. Torrey was a form-
er member of the Lynchburg Chamber of
Commerce, the Boonsboro Country Club
and the Rotary Club.

1930

Dr. ELtis O. COLEMAN died on September
30, 1967, in Martinsburg, West Virginia.

193]

BRIGADIER GENERAL WALTER A. HUNTs-
BERRY died October 16, 1967, in Hickory,
North Carolina, where he and Mrs. Hunts-
berry were visiting. A native of Win-
chester, Virginia, he graduated from the
U.S. Military Academy, West Point, New
York, in 1933 and was a veteran of thirty
years of continuous service. General
Huntsberry was commissioned a second
lieutenant upon his graduation from West
Point and served at Ft. Benning, Georgia.
before being assigned to the Philippines.
Later he was transferred to the Quarter-
master Corps and attended a Command
and General Staff College at Ft. Leaven-
worth, Kansas. During World War II
General Huntsberry served in Europe as
Chief of operations for the U. S. First
Army for more than 20 months and was
then assigned to the staff and faculty of
the Command and General Staff College
until 1948. He then became a student at
National War College. After an assign-
ment with the European Command Head-
quarters, he returned to the United States
in 1952 and was assigned to the U. S.
Military Academy as Assistant Chief of
Staff. In 1958 General Huntsberry be-
came Chief of the U. S. Army Overseas
Supply Agency and was reassigned as
Senior Logistics Adviser, U. S$. Advisory
Group, to the Republic of Korea. He re-
mained in Korea until his retirement in
1963.

1932

Dr. FRANK BELL Lewis died in Richmond,
Virginia, on October 2, 1967. After re-
ceiving both his B.A. and M.A. degrees
from Washington and Lee, Dr. Lewis
studied at Union Theological Seminary,
the University of Virginia, and at the
University of Edinburgh. He then held
the chair of Bible and philosophy at
Davis Elkins. In 1946 he was awarded the
Ph.D. degree from Duke University. Dr.
Lewis was elected President of Mary
Baldwin College in 1947, where he served
until 1953, resigning to become profes-
sor of Christian Ethics at Union Semi-
nary in Richmond.

1933

ERNEST LEIGH MCLELLAN died August 4,
1967. His family are residents of Meridian,
Mississippi. Mr. McLellan had been presi-
dent of the Alden Mills, a hosiery mill,
and had been a director in the National
Association of Hosiery Manufacturers.

26

1936

EpcAar L. Scuito of San Antonio, Texas,
died August 25, 1967. Mr. Schilo had been
the operator of Schilo’s Delicatessen in San
Antonio. He was a long-time member of
the Rotary Club there and held Senior
Active Service in the club.

1937

W. CARLTON BERNARD, former president
of the Bernard Color and Chemical Com-
pany of Poughkeepsie, New York, died
August 24, 1967.

194]

Jackson P. Warp, JR., a dealer and sales
manager for Pittsburgh Plate Glass Com-
pany, died October 25, 1967, in Rich-
mond, Virginia, while on a business trip.
He had been with the glass company for
twenty years.

ARCHIE WALLACE HILL, Jr., died August
6, 1967. At the time of his death he was
president of the Hill Chevrolet Company,
Inc., in Huntsville, Alabama.

1949

JAMEs B. CuipsEy, JR., a leading Rome,
Georgia, businessman, was among 82 per-
sons who were killed in the collision of
an airliner and a private plane near
Hendersonville, N. C., on July 19, 1967.
Mr. Chidsey was president of Chidsey
and Schroeder Brokerage Company, a
Rome food firm. He is survived by his
wife and four children.

1955

JosepH J. HecKMANN, III, assistant sales
manager for the Louisville Grocery Com-
pany, died September 4, 1967, at Louis-
ville, Kentucky. Heckmann was a former

president of the Louisville Restaurant As-
sociation. He served with distinction with
the Navy during World War II and was
discharged with the rank of leutenant.
In addition to his many civic activities
Mr. Heckmann was very active with the
little league baseball in Jeffersontown and
coached the football team for the St.
Edward’s Catholic Church.

1965

WILLIAM INGLES died on October 1, 1967.
He was a third-year law student at the
University of Virginia.

1966

GERALD RICHARD ATKINSON, pastor of the
Pentecostal Holiness Church, died Septem-
ber 11, 1967, in a Clifton Forge, Virginia,
hospital. The Rev. Atkinson also had
served as pastor of the Mountain View
Pentecostal Holiness Church near Buena
Vista, Virginia.

A Bethel Park Marine Corps officer, LEo
J. Keiry, III, was killed in action May,
1967, in Vietnam. Leo received his com-
mission as 2nd lieutenant in the U. S.
Marine Corps in Lee Chapel on_ his
graduation in June, 1966. He was fatally
wounded when struck by mortar shell
fragments while leading his rifle platoon
into battle in Operation Hickory Nut in
Quang Tri Province on May igth. As a
student at Washington nd Lee he was a
member of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity
and a first-string tackle on the football
team for four years. In his senior year
he was named All State Tackle among the
small colleges of Virginia. Lt. Kelly was
engaged to be married to Miss Jeannette
Noel of Nashville, Tennessee. He had
been in Vietnam since Januray, 1967.

Justice Whittle Dies at Age 76

Kennon C. Whittle, a former
justice of the Virginia Supreme
Court, who was a trustee of Wash-
ington and Lee University from
1952 to 1964, died November 10,
1967, in Martinsville at the age of
76.

Justice Whittle was appointed to
the Virginia Supreme Court in 1951
after having served on the 7th Ju-
dicial Circuit bench. He served on
the Supreme Court until February,
1965, and was Southside Virginia's
last Supreme Court justice until
former Gov. Albertis Harrison, Jr.,
was sworn in in October. Justice
Whittle was a son of former Chief
Justice Stafford G. Whittle.

After his retirement from the
high court, he returned to Martins-
ville, where he was born. Surviving
are his wife, Mrs. Mary Holt
Spencer Whittle, a daughter and
two sons.

Justice Whittle received his law
degree from Washington and Lee
in 1914 and was given an honorary
degree by the University in 1954.

He was a former president of the
Virginia Bar Association and a
director of Martinsville radio sta-
tion WMVA, the American Furni-
ture Co., the First National Bank
of Martinsville and Henry County,
and a member of Richmond’s Com-
monwealth Club.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

>

S varsity

of 1907 were (left to right, first row) WaAppDILL, IzARD, WILSON, Pires, Dow;

 

 

(second row) STEVENSON, manager, Moraes, HoGe, STREIT, Captain, ALDERSON, LYKEs, assistant manager; (third row) OsBouRNE, LARRICK,
WHITE, BROWN.

Varsity Football 60 Years Ago and Today

FINE PORTRAIT is the one above, given to the Uni-
A versity recently by C. W. Streit, ’10. That’s he
holding the ball. The photograph is of the 1907
Washington and Lee varsity football team. A goodly,
handsome lot they were, players, managers, all. And
there are notes of nostalgia about it—the cold day,
snow melting at the feet of the players there on the
walk in front of Tucker Hall, the old Law School
building that burned in the night later on. The pic-
ture will hang in the Alumni House.

The team had a middling record, beating Roanoke
5-0, holding UNC to a 0-0 tie, losing to VPI 0-5, over-
powering Hampden-Sidney 33-0, squeaking past Vir-
ginia 6-5 (hurrah!), and being nosed out by Bucknell

o-2. Still, it was a good showing by 13 players and
two mangers.

This year, 60 years later, the Washington and Lee
football team just finished its season and a winning
season at that. ‘The Generals won 5 games and lost
4, the best record since 1963 when the record was
5-3. Anyway, the boys of 1907 would have been proud
of the boys of 1967—all 50 on the varsity and nearly
30 more on junior varsity. ‘The Generals captured the
Virginia small-college championship. The season as a
whole went like this: W&L o-Guilford 35; W&L 13-
Randolph-Macon 12; W&L 6-Centre 0; W&L 6-La-
fayette 17; W&L 12-Hampden-Sydney 0; W&L 16-
Bridgewater 0; W&L o-Sewanee 43; W&L 30-South-
western 13; W&L 7-Washington 17.

anniversary
class ee
reunions

WHO?

Academic and Law Classes
of 1918, 1928, 1943, 1953, and 1958.

WHERE?

Washington and Lee University.

WHEN?
April 26-27, 1968.

DUIZESLI FUWINTY 297] pur uoIUTYSE AY SUT

Mark your calendar thus:

 

P.S. Don’t forget to come.

 

