  

THE

ASHINGTON
AND Lee

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

WINTER 1963

 

 

 

 

Class Agents for 1962-63

1887-1912—Alumni Office

1913-A—Richard A. Smith, 626 Stonewall Street, Lexington,
Virginia

1913-L—T. R. Bandy, 309 Commerce Street, Kingsport, Tenn.

1914-A—Paul J. B. Murphy, “Kolosandra,”’ 304 College Circle,
Staunton, Virginia

1914-L—John L. Hughes, Box 32, Benton, Arkansas

1915-A—Madison P. Coe, 1735 New Hampshire Ave.,
Washington 9, D.C.

1915-L—Wilbur C. Hall, Box 390, Leesburg, Virginia

1916-A—Robert B. McDougle, P.O. Box 288, Parkersburg,
West Virginia

1916-L—T. A. Myles, Box 126, Fayetteville, West Virginia

1917-A—Raymond L. Cundiff, 1921 S. Griffith Avenue,
Owensboro, Kentucky

1917-L—Claude R. Hill, 472 Central Avenue, Oak Hill, W. Va.

1918 —Allein Beall, Jr.. P. O. Box 467, Helena, Arkansas

1919 —W. F. Barron, Box 671, Rome, Georgia

1920-A—Henry F. Trotter, Ford Sales & Service, 120 E. Fifth
Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas

1920-L—John W. Drye, Jr., 350 Park Avenue, New York 22,
New York

1921-A—William J. Rushton, P. O. Box 2571, Birmingham,

Alabama
1921-L—Fred C. Parks, P.O. Box 135, Abingdon, Virginia

N.W..,

1922-A—Dewey A. Reynolds, 65 Sunset Drive, B.V., . Tarpon
Springs, Florida
1922-L—R. Bleakley James, 132 Alleghany Street, Clifton

Forge, Virginia

1923-A—Herbert qT. Elias, 199 De Mott Avenue, Rockville
Center, New York

1923-L—Robert H. Carr, Sr., Box 460, Jasper, Alabama

1924-A—Albert M. Pickus, 2424 Main Street, Stratford, Conn.

1924-L—D. Newton Farnell, Jr., P.O. Box 273, Greensboro,
North Carolina

1925-A—John T. McVay, 1404 Washington Blvd., Hunting-
ton 1, West Virginia

1925-L—E. Morris Abernathy, 26 Hermitage Point, Bayside,
Virginia

1926-A—Edward A. Dodd, 515 Marion E. Taylor Bldg.,
ville 2, Kentucky

1926-L—Cyrus O. Davajan, 204 Sycamore Avenue, Modesto,
California

1927-A—Cooper Turner, Jr. 12th Floor, Union Planters Bank
Bldg., Memphis 3, Tennessee

1927-L—Euchlin D. Reeves, 89 Benevolent,
Rhode Island

1928-A—Gerald F. Horine, 915 N. Quaker Lane, Alexandria,
Virginia

1928-L—W. P. Woodley, Box 389, Norfolk, Virginia

1929-A—Hayward F. Day, 144 Rockview Avenue,
Plainfield, New Jersev

1929-L—Samuel C. Strite, 122 West Washington Street, Hag-
erstown, Maryland

1930-A—John P. Lynch, 118 Paxton Rd., Richmond, Virginia

1930-L—N. Dawson Hall, Jr., 1415 Hamilton Bank Bldg.,
Chattanooga, Tennessee

- 1931-A—James L. Rimler, 20 North Court Street, Frederick,
Maryland

1931-L—Ethan Allen, 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York 5,
New York

1932-A—Charles E. Long, Jr., 4939 Brookview Drive, Dallas
20, Texas

1932-L—Charles A. Wood, Jr., Box 484, Charleston 22, W. Va.

1933-A—Ralph C. Barnett, 1617 Essex Road, Columbus 21,
Ohio

1933-L—Bernard B. Davis, Box 367, Shelbyville, Kentucky

1934-A—George D. McClure, 2222 N. Field Street, Dallas 2,
‘Texas

1934-L—S. W. Coleman, Jr., Box 217, Gate City, Virginia

1935-A—Charles C. Smith, P. O. Box 53, Jacksonville, Florida

1935-L—Thomas C. Smith, P. O. Box 1693, Tulsa, Oklahoma

1936-A—W. Magruder Drake, Box 215, U.S.L. Station, Lafay-
ette, Louisiana

1936-L—William H. Seaton, Jr., 307 McKinley Avenue, Char-
leston 4, West Virginia

1937-A—-H. Zachary Kramer, 928 Peninsula Boulevard, Wood-
mere, New York

Louis-

Providence 6,

North

1937-L—Edwin M. Marks, P.O. Box 449, Memphis. Tenn.
1938-A—Gerald M. Lively, 3425 Broadway, Koja City 11
Missouri é
1938-L—C. William Karraker, Jr.,
Ridge, Connecticut
1939- A—Thomas W. Moses, 800 Investors Building, Min-
neapolis 2, Minnesota
1939-L—-John D. Goodin, P. O. Box 457, Johnson City, Tenn.
1940-A—Louis F. Plummer, 161 Bolla Avene Alamo. ahi:
1940-L—O. B. McEwan, P. O. Box 753, Orlando, Florida
1941-A—Emil C. Rassman, 417 Midland Tower, Midland,
Texas
1941-L—-Charles F. Heiner, 112 Lake Lane, Richmond 29, Va.
1942-A—B. Evans Jasper, Box 387, Bradley, Illinois
1942-L—Clifford L. Walters, 214 Beachwood Road, Louis-
ville, Kentucky

P.O. Box 5, Redding

1943 —Corneal B. Myers, 130 Central Av enue, Lake Wales,
Florida

1944 —James P. Gilman, 324 Club Drive, Salisbury, North
Carolina

1945 —Edward B. Addison, 3099 East Pine Valley Road,
N. W., Atlanta 5, Ceoreia

1946 —Robert W. H. Mish, It, PO: Bee 887, Lexington,
Virginia

1947 —John A. McWhorter, 1620 Eye Street, N.W., Wash-
ington, D.C.

1948- A—Lewis H. McKenzie, P. O. Box 510, Montezuma, Ga.

1948-L—Carter R. Allen, L. R. &B. Building, W aynesboro, Va.

1949-A-—Mark W. Saurs, 1900 Parma Road, Richmond 29, Va.

1949-L—Jack B. Porterfield, Jr., 1129 Del Ray Drive, Birm-
ingham 13, Alabama

1950-A—Bruce S. Parkinson, 117 Hillside Road, Strafford,
Wayne, Pennsylvania

1950-L—Rufus B. Hailey, Airport Road, Gatlinburg, Tenn.

1951-A—W. Upton Beall, 217 Professional Bldg., Tyler, Tex.

1951-L—E. McGruder Faris, Box 6091, Winston- ‘Salem, N.C.

1952-A—Roland E. Thompson, 4915 Longfellow Court, Mc-
Lean, Virginia

1952-L—James C. Turk, P.O. Box 1089, Radford, Virginia

1953-A—Leonard B. Ranson, Je, 41/711 Lakeside Av enue, Bal-
timore 18, Mary land

1953-L—Robert L. Banse, 116 W.
delphia 18, Pennsylvania

1954-A—Norman L. Dobyns, 7202 Leesville Blvd., Springfield,
Virginia

1954-L—J. P. Kilgore, P.O. Box 405, Amherst, Virginia

1955-A—J. Hardin Marion, III, 7217 Lanark Road, Baltimore
12, Maryland

1955-L—John F. Kay, Jr., 1300 Travelers Bldg.,
Virginia

1956-A—Geoffrey T. Armbrister, 210 West Street, Mamaro-
neck, New York

1956-L—William H. Hodges, Board of Trade Building,
folk, Virginia

1957- A—John J. Fox, Jr.,
mond, Virginia

1957-L—Douglas K. Frith, Young, Kiser and Frith, 10 North
Bridge Street, Martinsville, Virginia

1958-A—Thomas B. Branch, ITT, 1045 Hurt Building,
ta 3, Georgia

1958-L—Robert G. McCullough, 1200 American Trust Build-
ing, Nashville, Tennessee

1959-A—C. DuBose Ausley, 1410 Betton Rd., Tallahassee, Fla.

1959-L—Owen A. Neff, 3406 Martha Custis Drive, Alex-
andria, Virginia

1960-A—A. Prescott Rowe, Information Services, Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia

1960-L—Isaac N. Smith, Jr., Box 393, Charleston Zoey Va.

1961-A—Robert J. Funkhouser, Jr., The Collegiate Schools,
North Mooreland Road, Richmond, Virginia

1961-L—Paul H. Coffee, Jr., 301 First National Bank Build-
ing, Lynchburg, Mireinia

1962- A—Charles E. Commander, III, 3839 Ortega Boulevard,
Jacksonville 10, Florida

1962-L—W. Leigh Ansell, 3316 Furnace Road, Norfolk 19,

Virginia

Evergreen Avenue, Phila-

Richmond 19,

Nor-
500 Tuckahoe Boulevard, Rich-

Atlan-

 

 

THE

ASHINGTON
AND

 

 

March, 1963

Editor
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940 Volume XXXVIII
Managing Editor Number 1

I'RANK A. PARSONS, 1954

Editorial Associate
Mrs. ROBERT STEWART

THE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

 

 

President THE COVER—A black and white view of the .
Ropney M. Cook, 1946 campus on the gray day that greeted Fancy WashHincton

Dress this February. The photograph was AND LEE .
Vice-President taken in front of McCormick Library look- ALUMNI MAGAZINE wo

Joun D. Batre, JR., M.D. 1934 ing toward the Red Square houses.

Secretary
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

 

Treasurer

E. ALTON SARIOR, JR., 1938 TABLE OF CONTENTS
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES |

Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Is ABA President-Elect 2
JOHN D. BarTt_e, JR., M.D., 1934

ANDREW H. Baur, JR., 1937 ; : /
THomas B. BRYANT, JR., 1928 Revolution and A Golden Age—the ODK Address
JAMEs H. CLARK, 1931

RODNEY M. Cook, 1946, President
E.. STEWART EPLEY, 1949

JAMEs B. MARTIN, 1931

Ey MARSHALL NUCH 2353 University’s Role in the Nation’s Diplomacy .  .  . 14
C. WILLIAM Pacy, II, 1950

E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938 : :

WituiAM B. WispoM, 1921 Fancy Dress Ball for 1963. wee 8
SHERWOOD W. WISE, 1932

Or

Washington and Lee Professor on National TV. 11

 

News of the Universit 20

EDITORIAL BOARD y
FRANK J. GILLIAM, 1917 Anniversary Reunions Set for May 3-5 .  . we.
FITZGERALD FLOURNOY, 1921
PAXTON DAVIS .
James W. Wurreneap A Report onthe Alumni Fund...) 8
RODNEY M. Cook, 1946
WILLIAM CG. WASHBURN, 1940 The Nominating Committee Needs Your Eteip| 28

Published quarterly by Alumni, Incor- Class Notes . . . ; . ; ; ‘ ; : . 29
porated, Washington and Lee University, .

Lexington, Virginia.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the s
Post Office at Lexington, Virginia, Sep- Chapter News . ° ° ; : : ° : ° : ° 44

tember 15, 1924. Printed at the Journalism
Laboratory Press of Washington anc’ Lee
University under the supervision of C.
Harold Lauck.

 

Lewis F. Powell, Jr.
Will Become Fifth
University Alumnus

To Preside Over

American Bar Assn.

Only Harvard and Columbia
Have Had More ABA Presidents

‘Than Washington and Lee’s Law School

By A. PREscoTr Rowe, ‘60

 

 

Assistant Director of Information Services

HEN RICHMOND attorney Lewis

F. Powell, Jr., steps up to the
presidency of the American Bar As-
sociation in August of 1964, he will
become the fifth Washington and
Lee University alumnus to hold
this important post.

A member of the University’s
Board of ‘Trustees since 1961, Pow-
ell was selected as president-elect
designate of the ABA during the
group's mid-year meeting in New

>
~

Washington and Lee University

Orleans early in February. Powell,
55, will succeed Walter E. Craig
of Phoenix, Ariz., the current presi-
dent-elect. He will be the eighty-
eighth president of the national le-
eal group that was organized in
1878 and now has over 102,000
members.

Only two law schools in the na-
tion have had more graduates elect-
ed to the top ABA job than Wash-
ington and Lee, according to sta-

 

 

tistics compiled by the association’s

central office in Chicago. ‘Ten
graduates of Harvard University’s
law school have held the post and
six Columbia University alumni
have served as ABA presidents.
Washington and Lee’s nearest con-
tender, the University of Pennsyl-
vania, has had three.

The first Washington and Lee
alumnus to become president of the
ABA was Henry St. George Tucker,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

who guided the association in 1904-
o5. He was the dean of Washington
and Lee’s School of Law from 1899
to 1902. Dean ‘Tucker succeeded his
father, John Randolph ‘Tucker, as
dean of the Lexington law school.
The elder Dean ‘Tucker was presi-
dent of the ABA in 1892-93. Al-
though he was a graduate of the
University of Virginia, Washing-
ton and Lee informally claims him
as an additional W&L ABA presi-
dent, since he was the University’s
first law dean.

Other Washington and Lee grad-
uates to hold the ABA presidency
and their dates of office are John
W. Davis, 1922-23; Scott M. Loftin,
1934-35; and Ross L. Malone, 1958-
59-

Since Washington and Lee has
a relatively small law school, uni-
versity officials take special pride in
the number of law graduates who
have headed the ABA. This Sep-
tember, 142 students registered for
law and 55 of those were entering

Other Washington and
Lee men who _ have
headed the ABA are

the late JoHN W.
Davis, left, and Ross
L. MALONE.

WINTER, 1963

for the first time. The new students
this year represent 35 colleges and
18 states and Canada. ‘There are
nine men currently on the Wash-
ington and Lec law faculty.

“My feeling was one of great
pride when I learned of the selec-
tion of one of our distinguished law
graduates—Mr. Lewis F. Powell—as
president-elect designate of the
American Bar Association,” Law
School Dean Charles P. Light said.

“Our School of Law, one of the
smaller ones, has been similarly
honored in earlier years by the elec-
tion to the presidency of the ABA
of four of its graduates and its first
dean,’ Dean Light added. “This
is quite a notable record. Many of
our graduates also have served the
bar associations of their respective
states with great distinction.”

‘The current president of the Vir-
ginia Bar Association, Waldo G.
Miles of Bristol, is a 1938 law grad-
uate of Washington and Lee. Miles
was named to the Virginia Board of

Fducation in January by Governor
Albertis Harrison.

John R. Tucker, who was the
fiiteenth president of the associa-
tion, served as Washington and
Lee’s law dean from 1870 to 1899.
When the original law — school
building burned in 1934 and the
present three-story edifice was
built to replace it, University of-
ficials decided to re-name the build-
ing ‘Tucker Hall in honor of Dean
‘Tucker’s service. Like his son, he
also served in Congress.

Henry St. George ‘Tucker was the
twenty-seventh ABA president. He
died in 1932 after having served as
law dean at Washington and Lee
and Columbian (now George Wash-
ington University), seven terms in
Congress, and as president of the
Jamestown Exposition Co. He was
dean of the School of Law and Dip-
lomacy at George Washington

“when he was elected ABA presi-

dent. He received his LL.B. from
Washington and Lee in 1876.

 

It was seventeen years after the
younger ‘Tucker was ABA president
when another Washington and Lee
alumnus took the helm of the or-
ganization. In 1922, John W. Davis,
the 1924 Democratic nominee for
President, stepped up to the post
as the forty-fifth president. Davis,
who died in 1955, was a member
of the 62nd and 63rd Congresses,
Solicitor-General of the U.S. for
five years and U.S. Ambassador to
Great Britain for three years. He re-
ceived his B.A. degree from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1892 and _ his
LL.B. in 1895. When the University
opened its dormitory for law. stu-
dents in 1959, it was named in hon-
or of Davis who had been a Trus-
tee and University Rector.

In the mid-1930’s, Jacksonville
attorney Scott M. Loftin was ap-
pointed to fill the unexpired term
of Florida Senator Park Trammell
who died unexpectedly. Senator
Loftin, who attended Washington
and Lee in 1898 and 1899 and re-
ceived an honorary LL.D. degree
from his Alma Mater in 1934,
served in the U.S. Senate for five
months. He was the _ fifty-eighth
president of the ABA in 1934-35, a
year before his Senate appointment.
He died in 1953.

When Ross L. Malone of Rose-
well, New Mexico, was elected eigh-
ty-second ABA president in 1958
he was the youngest man to be

named to the office in 8o years. His
Alma Mater honored him with an

honorary LL.D. degree that year
and students elected him a mem-
ber of the Washington and Lee
chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa.

 

A frequent visitor to the campus, Powell
enjoys a halftime break at Homecoming
with good friend Cy Youne.

He is a partner in the Rosewell
firm of Atwood and Malone and a
fellow of the American College of
Trial Lawyers. He _ received his
Bachelor of Laws _ degree
Washington and Lee in 1932.

According to a national news
story on Powell’s election, the word
“enthusiastic” comes up quite fre-

from

 

 

quently in conversations with the
Richmond attorney. ‘This might
well be a key word for the soft-
spoken man whose activities range
from coaching a Little League base-
ball team in Richmond to dealing
with major corporate and educa-
tional problems throughout Vir-
ginia. Beside being a ‘Trustee of
Washington and Lee, he is a mem-
ber of the board of trustees of Hol-
fins. Collese and the
Board of Education.

Virginia

President-elect designate Powell
is a senior member of the firm of
Hunton, Williams, Gay, Powell &
Gibson and has practiced law in
Richmond for over 30 years. In
1960, Washington and Lee award-
ed him an honorary LL.D. degree.
He earned both his B.S. and LL.B.
degrees from the university and an
LL.M. degree from Harvard Uni-
versity. Hampden-Sydney College
gave Powell a LL.D. degree in 1959.

As president of the American
Bar Association, Powell will have
to take time from his busy law prac-
tice and associations with a number
of Virginia corporations and socie-
ties for speeches and appearances
throughout the U.S. He will head
the seventeen-man Board of Gov-
ernors of the association and will
appoint the chairmen of all major
ABA committees. ‘The ABA meets
twice a year.

 

President Cole Chosen Director of Library Resources Council

@ PRESIDENT FRED C. COLE has been
elected a member and a director
of the Council on Library Resour-
ces, Inc., an independent, non-
profit body whose principal objec-
tive is aiding in the solution of li-
brary problems.

President Cole also. serves as
chairman of a committee of con-
sultants preparing a report for the
Ford Foundation relative to the
needs of research libraries.

4

‘The Council on Library Resour-
ces was established in 1956 through
a grant of five million dollars from
the Ford Foundation. ‘The fund
was to be expended over a five-year
period “for the purpose of aiding in
the solution of the problems of li-
braries generally and of research
libraries in particular, conducting
research in, developing and demon-
strating new techniques and meth-
ods, and disseminating through any

means the results thereof, and for
making grants to other institutions
and persons for such purposes; and
for providing leadership in and,
wherever appropriate, coordination
of efforts (1) to develop the re-
sources and services of libraries and
(2) to improve relations between
American and foreign libraries and
archives. In 1960, the Council re-
ceived a new grant of eight million
dollars from the Ford Foundation.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

On

Revolution
an
a

Golden

C

WINTER, 1963

 

Dr. Caryl P. Haskins, Noted
Scientist, Delivered the 1962
ODK Address; His Challenging
Remarks Should Be of Interest
To All ‘Thoughtful Alumni

T IS A SPECIAL PRIVILEGE to be with you today, and
I a particular honor that you should wish me to
address Omicron Delta Kappa on so very significant
an occasion. When I was told that I should have this
opportunity, I thought that I would like to speak
to you on two subjects. Att first sight, they may appear
of more historical than current interest. Considered
separately, they might seem a bit incongruous. But
taken in conjunction, I believe that they form as
deeply relevant and vital a concern for us, possibly,
as any matter in our time. These questions that I want
to explore—and admittedly in a very special sense—
relate to revolution on the one hand, and on the
other to the special qualities and characteristics of
what men in all the eras of history have called a
Golden Age. The special sense in which I want to

5

 

explore these subjects, as you will guess, is that of the
intellect and of the spirit.

Let me begin, then, with my second question.
What is a Golden Age? What echoes of the Age of
Penicles, of Renaissance Italy and the Low Countries
and Scandinavia, of Elizabethan England, mark each
as a flood tide in the vast, slow surge of human spirit-
ual and intellectual development? Can such flood
tides have meaning for our own time?

It is interesting to notice some of the characteris-
tics that these ages had in common. All were times
of fervent intellectual excitement, when major new
creations and new experiences and viewpoints were
just coming to wide notice and were on the threshold
of general experience. In all of them one can sense a
vigorous address to new ideas—when opening vistas,
half-seen, made ideas precious coin. All were eras
of some physical security, and at least some political
and organizational stability. But in all of them, too,
stability and security were far from complete, and
there is a flavor of partnership of creativeness and
vitality with hazard and dishonor. None of them,
clearly, were especially “comfortable” times in which
to live, in the sense that static and secure environ-
ments are comfortable. And yet men knew that they
were living in great times. The adventurous in all
these periods would probably have admitted—and
perhaps have bitterly resented—the danger and the
insecurity and the muddled opacity of their days. But
if hard pressed, probably no one would have admitted
a wish to be born in any other era.

Typical Times of Revolution

The Golden Ages, too, were typically times of
revolution in general viewpoints of the world, and
that on the very widest scale. Take, for example,
Great Britain in the period of the Restoration. Even
at our remove of three centuries, one can still sense
something of the intensity and the high drama of a
vast change in the whole outlook of a people on the
natural world, wrought in only forty years in that so-
ciety where the first of all scientific revolutions took
place. It is hard at this distance, I think, to fully
comprehend the consuming effects that the Age of
Newton had upon British culture at large when its
basic implications became truly realized. Between the
early years of Queen Elizabeth I and of Charles II
there clearly occurred in British society as a whole
the most profound change in ways of looking at the
world and at man. Donne and Dryden seem separated
by far more than the half-century that historical
chronology allots. For the post-Restoration writer, the
scientific world seems to become the real world. The
cosmic view of the Elizabethans, with its accompanying

6

 

 

habits of mind, all but disappears from English lit-
erature afiter those fateful forty years.

Can intellectual revolutions of such an order come
again? And is the miracle of a Golden Age to which
they have contributed so overwhelmingly in the great
times of the past now only of historical significance, or
can it, too, have contemporary import?

It is hard for me to escape the belief that the an-
swers to both these questions are affirmative. Indeed,
it is hard for me to escape the further and more ex-
treme conviction that in many ways we are living
now in the midst of a similar period of revolution
and may be at the inception—or perhaps even in the
full tide—of a great and striking intellectual age quite
comparable to earlier ones. Perhaps we ourselves are
the restless, insecure, anxious, vital participants of an
era of contemporary ferment that other men some-
where, sometime, may well call Golden too.

If we are in fact witnessing the earlier phases of
another such period of turbulent change, when view-
points shift rapidly and radically, serving in turn as
the anvils for new ideas, we must expect it to differ
in many respects from similar periods in the past. We
cannot, for instance, hope to localize it geographically.
Tihe interlocked character of the modern world, the
growing similarity of all its cultures, the universality
of its communication, must make meaningless any
such designation as an Athenian or an Elizabethan
Age. But possibly we can characterize it in terms of
content, of the loci of thought with which it is es-
pecially concerned. Prominent among such domains,
of course, will inevitably be the realm of the natural
sciences.

This Golden Age, like those preceding it, will
necessarily be deeply concerned with the practical
aspects of the conquest of power from Nature and its
use and control, and the worlds of applied science
and technology, on a more breathtaking scale than
ever before, will continue to be of critical importance
in its shaping. Who has not been carried in reverie
beyond his wildest earlier dreams by the prospects
which the exploration of space offer to us? Who has
not looked in wonder at a world of technolgy in which
such physical improbabilities as the large-scale modi-
fication of weather and the large-scale use of nuclear
power must be reckoned as sober possibilities?

In a somewhat different, but yet related, sector of
human experience, emphasizing the sheer magnificence
and intellectual penetration of the changing vistas of
the universe which our age has already won and to
the further enlargement of which it may look forward
in the future, who has not been profoundly stirred to
recall that what only a generation ago we thought
to be the limits of the celestial universe today mark
but the boundaries of one among millions of galaxies,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Dr. Haskins 1s president of the Carnegie In-
stitution of Washington, a position he has held
since 1956. He ts a former research associate at
Harvard and MIT and a former research chem-
ist for the General Electric Company. From 1937
to 1955, he was research professor in biophysics
at Union College, and he formerly served as pres-
ident and research director of Haskins Labora-
tories, Inc., and as president of National Photo-
color Corporation. Dr. Haskins is a graduate of
Yale, and holds a Ph.D. degree from Harvard. He
is currently a consultant to President Kennedy’s
Science Advisory Committee, on which he served
a three-year term.

The Carnegie Institution, established in 1902,
is engaged in research activities in the physical
and biological sciences. One of its major func-
tions is the operation of Mount Wilson and Palo-
mar Observatories in cooperation with the Cal-
ifornia Institute of Technology.

millions of stellar universes lacing the heavens? Let
me pause for a moment here to recount to you a dis-
covery in astronomy of the year just past which in
the staggering distances with which it deals emphasizes
anew what a thin terrestrial shell is the outer space
so far entered by man. Shortly after the second world
war, when instruments of radio detection were being
put to a new use in the service of astronomy, several
surveys of the skies were undertaken to detect and lo-
cate the positions of celestial bodies that were emitters
of radio waves. The equipment then available, how-
ever, was relatively poor in resolution and in accuracy.
But at the radio observatory of the Cavendish Labora-
tory in Cambridge and at the observatory of the Cali-
fornia Institute of ‘Technology at Bishop in the Owens
Valley, instruments of outstanding capacity have re-
cently been completed, and during 1959 and 1960
fresh surveys of the sky were undertaken with them.
In the course of ithese surveys, the celestial position of
a new and powerful emitter of radio waves was de-
termined so precisely that it was possible to bring the
200-inch optical Hale telescope on Palomar Mountain
to bear upon it. And so it happened that an astron-
omer of the Mount Wilson and Palomar Observa-
tories was able to obtain two spectra of visible light
from this source, and to measure the redshift in them—
a herculean technical achievement. The redshift cor-
responded to a calculated velocity of recession for the
object of nearly thalf the speed of light. The object
thus marks by far the most searching probe into the
unplumbed depths of space that the mind and hand
of man have so far accomplished, ranging certainly to
the order of four or five billion light years. And when
you recall that a single light year amounts to almost

WINTER, 1963

 

six million million miles—about sixty-three thousand
times the distance of our own world from the sun—it
makes the orbits of earth satellites, spectacular as they
are, yet appear as comparatively near-neighborhood
adventures.

But I have wandered from my subject a bit. If
another and striking mark of the Golden Ages has al-
ways been the partnership that they have known of
vitality with anxiety and turbulence, then our own
times must superbly qualify as a Golden Age in that
respect too. ‘There are of course the all-too-obvious
dangers of nuclear war of which we are almost daily
reminded; the ever-present dangers of international
power conflict on an unprecedented scale in which
we might need our every resource to hold our own;
the imponderables of modernized and modernly armed
and implacable great Asiatic powers. Subtler factors,
nearer to home, are so less difficult: above all, perhaps,
the severe threat to tolerance that our contemporary
world imposes. It has been well said that the power
to inspire men with tolerances faces its most acid test
in a world of more than one competing great intol-
erance. And the world of competing great intolerances
is the one in which we live.

Characteristic of Great Ages

These are tremendous challenges. But such deep
and severe challenges have always characterized the
great ages. For nations as for men, indeed, those peri-
ods of severe stress and profound change and radical
readjustment which have always conferred their deep-
est meaning upon past Golden Ages demand again
today, as they have always demanded, far more than

i

 

simple endurances; far more than mere talent in sur-
vival. Yet hazard has never been their primary qual-
ity. Met with boldness and audacity, with dedication
and with balance, with independence of mind and
spirit, with sensitive understanding, these have also
always been the times of unmatched range for new
orders of growth and realization. Such, I believe, are
the times today. Such, I am sure, they will be even
more tomorrow, when, I am convinced, new reaches
of understanding will await our occupancy.

And so I come to my second and associated sub-
ject, the question of revolution. By this, as you will

 

ODK member DON PARTINGTON taps a new initiate for member-
ship in the distinguished national leadership society.

understand, I mean that grand revolution in our ways
of looking at the world, akin to the revolution of vis-
ion in the age of Newton, which is such a characteris-
tic feature of a Golden Age. Today I believe that a
revolution in ‘the life of the mind of comparable
depth and universality is full upon us—a revolution
which iin its power and its scope, indeed, vividly recalls
the explosive qualities of Copernican times. For the
remainder of my talk, I want to speak about some
phases of that contemporary revolution. If you will
permit me, I shall draw my illustrations not only from
contemporary scientific discovery, but from the special
realm of the life sciences, which are my own particu-
lar interest.

The intellectual magnitude of the Newtonian revo-
lution is commonplace today. Yet it is easy to forget
how completely extraordinary it was. ‘“Truth” in scien-
tific observation had been largely defined as the success
with which an observer’s impressions of the world
could be selected and organized about accepted images.
It was no less than a titantic achievement to reach
the view that experimental investigation might de-
termine man’s concepts of the world—a_ resolution
vividly symbolized, in the sensitive image of Lewis
Mumford, by the introduction into man’s homes of
clear glass, replacing the great stained windows of
Medieval architecture.

8

By the later seventeenth century a structure of
cause and effect had been defined which, as Newton
warned, should be “kept free of occult influences.”
Three centuries of intellectual advance were to be
built around this profound revolution of viewpoint in
which, from the days of Newton and Descartes and
Hobbes, notions of cause and effect were to play a
central role. Now, I believe, we are living through a
comparably tremendous shift in scientific philosophy.
As in the older revolution, it is based on changes in
fundamental concepts—perhaps the most radical and
profound changes that have taken place in the last
three hundred years. As in Newton’s time, this revo-
lution was set off by great and liberating new ideas—
in our case by a new awareness of two revolutionary
views of the natural world that already have come to
permeate our lives—the notions of relativity and of
uncertainty. Central in this contemporary revolution
have been new concepts of the phenomenon of Chance
which, as Bronowski has pointed out, may ultimately
provide as great a unifying principle for the diverse
branches of science as did the concept of Causality
in the days of Descartes and Hobbes. Dominant in it
are concepts of conditional probability which color
much of our contemporary thinking about the nature
of life processes, and may well give to the investiga-
tion of living systems tools of comparable power to
those that were fashioned for attack upon the physical
world in Newton’s day.

The study of living systems, indeed, presents today
a major challenge to the widening of our concepts.
For living things in general have several unique qual-
ities in all the world. ‘They alone, within their own
substance, can reverse the thermodynamic trends of
the lifeless universe, building toward an_ increase
rather than a decrease of order. The ages of a living
system, its youth, its maturity, its decay, give us a
unique temporal representation of the world. And life
alone among the elements of our natural world can
serve as a predictor system. The genes in the evening
moth that determine its behavior, assuring that it
will fly only during the hours of outer darkness even
though it be itself kept in the dark all day long, are
acting as predictors. Our own intellects surely behave
in part as predictors of a much more rapid kind, seiz-
ing on stereotypes from the environment, construct-
ing matching systems with internally derived and
formulated concepts, forever comparing our outer with
our inner world and thereby, in a universe filled with
redundancies, predicting immediate and remoter con-
sequences.

Let me digress again for a moment, if I may, to il-
lustrate the scope and the universality of biological ex-
ploration in the last year or two, as I did a few mo-
ments ago for contemporary astronomy. It would be

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

hard to imagine a more fundamental or sweeping dis-
covery than one elucidating, at the level of molecular
structure, the manner in which the information gOv-
erning all our inherited qualities of body and mind
can be recorded and stored in the chromosomes of our
bodies—recorded and stored with such effectiveness
and such enduring stability that there are organisms
alive today whose heredity has been maintained more
faithfully and more lastingly through the eons of
their existence as a species or a genus than the very
rocks where fossils of their remote ancestors are pre-
served.

In 1953 J. D. Watson and F. H. C. Crick, working
in the British Medical Research Unit adjacent to the
Cavendish Laboratory in Cambridge, announced the
brilliant hypothesis that the unit of heredity, the mole-
cule of deoxyribonucleic acid, consisted of 1a pair of
“ribbons” wound in the form of a double helix and
linked by four characteristic organic bases, two purine,
two pryimidine, paired in highly specific fashions. We
have been freshly reminded of that tremendous insight
of a decade ago by the award of the Nobel prize in
medicine and physiology to Wilkins and Crick and
Watson this year, signalizing the magnitude of their
discovery. It was in the following year, 1954, that the
astrophysicist Gamow made the radical suggestion
that genetic information might actually be ‘‘coded”
on the deoxyribonucleic acid molecule in a linear
message for which the four possible combinations of
linking bases could serve as alphabet—in a manner
reminiscent of the coding of a message on the punched
tape of a computer, or of a message in Morse code. Al-
though the precise form of the code which Gamow
suggested has since ‘proved incorrect, the basic idea has
been established as another of the great theoretical
advances in our view of the living world. And so was
posed a pointed question: if such a code exists, what
is its nature?

Over the last two years, theoretical and experi-
mental work in biophysics and biochemistry have done
much to answer that question. Suffice it to say today
that it is now clear that the code operates by specify-
ing the order of amino acids, those building blocks
of the proteins, in the construction of the protein it-
self, and thiat it contains very few discrete symbols—
almost certainly not more than three, possibly only
two. Within this last year a new advance has provided
what may well be a Rosetta Stone for the code. It has
been found that artificially manufactured deoxyri-
bonucleic acid, containing known sequences of the
coding bases, can be made to direct the formation of
proteins in cell-free synthesis, and these proteins can
then be analyzed. It is claimed, now, that the “code
letters” for nineteen out of the twenty amino acids
are in sight.

WINTER, 1963

 

The structural capacity of this remarkable system
for recording heredity is tremendous. A virus may in-
clude within the single chromosome that it possesses
a hundred thousand of the code “letters.” A billion
such “‘letters’” may be included within our own store
of genetic information. It is a startling thought that
if the strands of deoxyribonucleic acid from all the
cells in a single one of us were uncoiled and joined,
their combined length might reach across the solar
system.

After this momentary excursion on one dramatic
and current frontier of modern biology, let me return
to my main theme. In a broader sense, living systems
are surely beckoning us to the next very general step
in the widening range of our world which can be
brought within the scientific view. It is likely to be a
radical step. For when we deal with life as a whole,
we are dealing with self-organizing and goal-seeking
systems in the psychological sense, and this is a new
kind of scientific experience. In a living system, every-
thing that occurs in that system alters the pattern of
probabilities against which a new event must occur,
so that the whole range of allegedly “chance’’ events
happening to the organism, within it and without,
form in fact a closely woven nexus, linking its past

 

Among 1962 ODK initiates were Dr. Haskins, right, and alumni
Joun H. Harpwick, °31, center, and ALLEN Harris, JR., ’27.

history and its future prospects in a most complex
and usually in an irreversible fashion.

The revolution which this idea implies is more
striking than may at first appear. How radical it is can
be vividly demonstrated by posing the whole question
of the working mechanisms of the processes of evo-
lution. Many fine minds, trained in another genera-
tion, when confronted with the question: “How
could a microcosm, over the eons, have become trans-
formed into a Shakespeare?’’, will answer: “Regardless
of how many millions of generations one has to work
with, regardless of how rigid selection may have been,
regardless of how many creatures may have perished

9

 

in the advance, regardless of how enormous the time-
span involved, it is still not possible for me to see how,
by a succession of purely chance events, such a develop-
ment could have occurred.” The time is coming, how-
ever, when I believe that we will no longer consider
such an answer a meaningful approach to that ques-
tion. Rather we will say: “At no stage of the process
does one have to imagine that the development was
random in the pure sense that we once thought.’’ Each
event within the organism must change the pattern
of probabrlities for the next event, and these conse-
quences iare built into intricate, forwardly directed
chains. By the same token, the further a living system
has moved along such a chain, the more elaborate the
field of interlocked probabilities to which it has be-
come committed, and—as in our own individual lives—
the slimmer becomes the chance that anything can be
precisely duplicated, or repeated, or re-lived.

Underlying All Living Systems

The more one reflects on this notion of conditional
probability, the more vividly is its sweep brought
home. For it seems to underly all living systems which
are, per se, self-organizing and goal-seeking. Not long
ago I had the privilege of attending a scientific meet-
ing held at the British National Physical Laboratory
at ‘Teddington, near London. Since then, I have at-
tended several similar meetings in this country. They
have been the most exciting scientific events, I think,
that I have experienced in the last decade. For they
have been devoted to ithe idea that machines may be
devised which not only can perform calculations and
other such special functions far beyond the power of
the human mind, as computers do now, but which may
also generate new ideas—which, indeed, might actual-
ly evolve concepts going beyond the imagination of
their builders. ‘The basic objective of such research, of
course, is not to design “thinking machines” as that
term is commonly used. That development has al-
ready achieved stupendous proportions, here and
abroad. Rather it is to conceive relatively simple
mechanical analogues of the goal-seeking system that is
simple life or the simple brain itself, in an attempt,
through the evolution of such crude models, to under-
stand more about the dynamic properties of life and
mind. And already circuits have been imagined—and
built—which in their performance suggestively re-
semble some of ithe more elementary aspects of in-
stinctive animal behavior of which such great con-
temporary naturalists as Von Frisch, Lorenz, and Tin-
bergen have given us so many fascinating glimpses in
real life in recent years.

Research of this kind, and the concepts under-

10

lying it, are surely at a crude and tentative stage at
present. Yet they are past the point of universal skep-
ticism. ‘They are gaining added converts at an in-
creasing rate. And from the standpoint of their revo-
lutionary character the most important thing about
them is that they are directed at a very broad sector
of our world, and a sector which, for the most part,
has not been very accessible to scientific scrutiny in
the past. Dynamic, goal-directed, self-organizing  sys-
tems include the viruses and the single cells. ‘They in-
clude the world of many celled plants and animals,
and the body and the brain of man. And they also in-
clude populations and societies of living things—and
who knows, perhaps one day societies of man himself.

A Setting Aside of Barriers

Revolutions in concept of this kind and the further
prospects which they imply constantly impress upon
me how much, over the years, barriers of attitude, of
values, of ways of thinking and modes of attack which
since the time of Newton have traditionally segregated
the concerns of science, are, in the larger philosophic
sense, being set aside. It seems quite conceivable that,
as the years go by, our notions about the distinctness
of the domain and the concerns of science from those
of the rest of the world may so blur and fade that
eventually we may be startled to recall that once we
saw them there at all.

If such an evolution takes place, it will come about,
not by one view of the world replacing or setting aside
another, but rather by a convergence on common in-
terests and a common kingdom. When that happens,
our universe will surely once again, as has happened
so often in the history of mankind, have broadened
and deepened and to some extent may have changed
its character. Yet it will surely be for us primarily an
extension of the philosophic universe that we earlier
knew, not fundamentally altered in its older aspects,
but now with novel and yet vaster dimensions, now ex-
plored and dissected with more powerful, more versa-
tile, more penetrating tools.

‘This is but one evidence of the profound intellect-
ual revolution that is, I think, an integral characteris-
tic of our time—an integral element of a period in
history which I truly believe will one day merit—and
may one day achieve the title of a Golden Age as
truly as did any of its predecessors. It is only a sample,
though I believe a representative one. But the pros-
pect of the realization of even one such development
offers, I think, an enthralling prospect, and one not
unlikely. If its promise, like other promises of our Age,
is realized, you will have been the agents of its suc-
cess, and you will be the witnesses of its fulfillment.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

“MEET THE PROFESSOR’

OME THREE million television
S viewers across the nation had
an Opportunity to meet an _ out-
standing young Washington and
Lee professor early in December
when Dr. Charles F. Phillips, Jk.
appeared on the American Broad-
casting Company’s “Meet the Pro-
fessor’ network telecast.

Appearing with Dr. Phillips on
the half-hour program were six
Washington and Lee students who
accompanied the 28-year-old assist-
ant professor of economics to New
York for studio taping of simulated
Washington and Lee classroom
scenes.

For both professor and students,
it was a unique and exciting experi-

WINTER, 1963

Washington and Lee’s Dr. Charles F. Phillips, Jr.,
And Six Seniors Appear on a Nationwide Telecast

That Emphasizes the Importance of College Teaching

ence, a chance for a look behind the
scenes of television production, and
an opportunity to contribute to-
ward the American public’s better
understanding of the role of the
professor in higher education.
“Meet the Professor” is currently
in its third year on national televis-
ion. The American Broadcasting
Company TV network produces
the series in cooperation with the
Association for Higher Education,
a division of the National Educa-

tron Association. Seen in most areas

over ABC affiliates at 1:30 on
Sunday afternoons, the program has
drawn a modest national viewing
audience, but the quality of pro-
duction and its important purpose

have won critical approval. In 1961-
62, “Meet the Professor’ was the
recipient of the School Bell Award
for “distinguished interpretation
of education.”

The program attempts to show
the college teacher’s vital work in
teaching, research, and public ser-
vice; to develop interest in college
teaching as a career by showing the
opportunities and satisfactions of
the profession; and to portray the
professor as a stimulator and ex-
emplifier of inquiry and creativity.
The program tries to suggest the
complex of resources which the pro-
fessor and his students use and re-
quire, and it seeks ito establish the
professor as a vital and contempo-

11

 

 

rary person in the context of his
work on the campus, the commun-
ity, and society in general.

As the 48th professor to appear
on the program since its start three
years ago, Dr. Phillips became the
first faculty member of a Virginia
college to be picked for the distine-
tive honor.

Early in November, the show’s
producers invited Washington and
Lee to nominate three or four pro-
fessors who might be considered as
possible participants in the pro-
gram. ‘The executive committee of
the faculty was requested by the
University to select Washington
and Lee’s nominees. When three
professors had been named, and
they had agreed to possible partict-
pation, network — representatives
and a representative of the Asso-
ciation for Higher Education came
to Lexington to interview the nom-
inees. On the basis of this interview
and special consideration of the
professors’ teaching fields, Dr. Phil-
lips emerged as ‘the producers’
choice. Only one economist had
been featured previously on the
program.

Dr. Phillips was asked to select
six of his students to take part in
the seminar and classroom scenes
of the proposed program. The gen-
eral format of the program would
show Dr. Phillips leading a seminar
discussion among the six students,
then conferring with an individual
student on a matter reflecting Phil-
lips’ role as a fraternity chapter
faculty adviser, then talking by tele-
phone with a New York firm he
serves aS an economic consultant,
and finally as a classroom lecturer
before some twelve or fifteen stu-
dents. The general idea was to show
Dr. Phillips’ varied activities, all of

A Washington and Lee econom-

ics seminar in progress under the

I'V camera’s eye and the Kleig
light’s glare.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

which tend to make his influence
upon students felt in many ways.

The script was written by ABC
staff writer Ira Marion, but was ex-
tensively revised by Dr. Phillips so
that he could “feel at home” with
the content and choice of words.

From his Washington and Lee
classes, Dr. Phillips chose six stu-
dents well qualified to carry on an
extensive discussion on “‘corporate
responsibility” during the seminar
scene. ‘Che students, all seniors, in-
cluded Daniel F. Boyles, an eco-
nomics major from Houston; Ed-
ward L. Burdell, a history major
from Cincinnati; Daniel R. Cole,
an economics major from Washing-
ton, D. C.; Charles T. McCord ITI,
a business administration major
from Shreveport; Anthony D.
Schlesinger, a business administra-
tion major from Dallas; and John
C. ‘Thurmond, an interdepartment-
al major in business administration
and pre-engineering from Shreve-
port.

McCord appeared in the fratern-
ity discussion with Dr. Phillips. His
choice was particularly appropriate
since he is actually president of the
Beta ‘Theta Pi chapter that Dr.
Phillips serves as faculty adviser.

‘To fill out the classroom scene,
ABC brought in another half doz-
en students from nearby Rutgers
University. The class discussion
dealt with anti-trust legislation, one
of Dr. Phillips’ special fields in
economics.

When the Washington and Lee
group got to New York, they found
that the program’s director, Rob-
ert Delaney, planned no rehearsal
of the seminar, classroom, or other
scenes, except for a brief “blocking
out” of the movements from one
set to another. The idea was for the

Dr. PHILLIPS and senior CHARLES

McCorp — receive — instructions

from the assistant director dur-
ing a “run through.”

WINTER, 1963

scenes to be completely fresh and
unrehearsed, with discussion follow-
ing its own course.

Dr. Phillips and his students had
agreed in advance about the subject
matter for the seminar and class-
room scenes, and in the seminar se-
quence, it was agreed which stu-
dents would speak to certain points.
‘The scene that viewers saw was es-
sentially a bona fide Washington
and Lee economics seminar in ac-
tion.

The recording of the program on
video tape went off without a hitch.
A sound effects man missed his cue
on a simulated ringing of the bell
in Washington Hall, and Dr. Phil-
lips was nearly late in getting from
his office set to the classroom scene,
but otherwise all went smoothly.

After the program was complete,
Dr. Phillips and his young col-
leagues witnessed a playback on a
studio monitor, a preview of the
show they would watch back in
Lexington three days later.

What the program’s three mil-
lion viewers saw on December 9g
was a brief profile of an energetic
young professor who is an accom-
plished teacher and a recognized
scholar in the fields of government
regulation of public utilities and in
merger policies of the past thirteen
years affecting the transportation
and communications industries. He
has written numerous articles for

economics journals, and his book
on Competition in the Synthetic
Rubber Industry is scheduled for
publication in May by the Univer-

sity of North Carolina Press. He is

currently at work on a textbook on
Regulated Industries: Theory and
Practice for the Irwin series in eco-
nomics. He is also a consultant to
the American ‘Telephone and Tele-
graph Company.

Besides serving as an adviser to
a social fraternity, Dr. Phillips is
faculty adviser to the Student War
Memorial Scholarship Fund Com-
mittee, the Student Dance Board,
and the Young Republicans Club.
He has been a member of the Uni-
versity faculty since 1959.

A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of
the University of New Hampshire,
Dr. Phillips received his Ph.D. de-
gree from Harvard in 1960. His
father, Charles F. Phillips, Sr., is
president of Bates College, Lewis-
ton, Maine, and an outstanding
economist.

Dr. Phillips’ appearance on
“Meet the Professor’ helped dem-
onstrate to many Americans the
high quality of instruction and
guidance which Washington and
Lee faculty members offer in the
education of Washington and Lee
University men.

For Dr. Phillips, for Washington
and Lee, and for higher education
in general, it was a “good show.”

 

*3

 

Washington and Lee’s Contribution

To the Nation’s ‘‘Sound Diplomacy”

Paul M. Miller, Jr., 938, Writes
Of the Important Role Played
By the University’s Graduates

In the State Department and Foreign

Service; ‘Three Alumni Now Hold

Appointments As Ambassadors

ITHIN one week in January
W 1963 Washington and Lee
University was twice honored by
President Kennedy’s appointing its
graduates as new Ambassadors to
countries in Africa. ‘This brings to
twenty-six the total of alumni and
“ormer faculty members of the Tn:-
versity known to be holding posi-
tions of major responsibility in the
Department of State and U.S. For-
eign Service, as well as in other fed-
eral goverment agencies that par-
ticipate in the field of foreign af-
fairs.

Three of this group are now serv-
ing their country as Ambassadors.
The dean of them is Philip D.
Sprouse, B.A. ’28, who is currently
Ambassador to Cambodia and holds
the rank of Career Minister in the
Foreign Service. A native of ‘Ten-
nessee, Mr. Sprouse entered the
Foreign Service in 1935, when he
received an appointment as clerk in
Peiping. Three years later he be-

14

 

 

“And I believe that the
principles of sound diploma-
cy, which are immutable, will
in the end prevail, and thus
calm the chaos which with the
transition between the old dt-
plomacy and the new has for
the moment bewildered the
world.” HAROLD NICOLSON

 

 

 

came a Foreign Service Officer, and
after varied service in overseas posts
in China, France and Belgium and
in the Department of State, he was
appointed a Foreign Service In-
spector in 1959. He held this posi-

tion until his appointment on July

5, 1962, as Ambassador to Cam-
bodia.

Two other Washington and Lee
alumni are Ambassador Designates.
President Kennedy on January 10,
1963, announced his intention to

PauL M. MILLer, Jr.

appoint Charles Dudley Withers,
B.S. ’37, as Ambassador to Rwanda,
the former Belgian mandate along-
side Lake Victoria, and on January
25, 1963, to appoint Edward M.
Korry, B.A. ’42, as Ambassador to
Ethiopia.

Mr. Withers, a career Foreign
Service Officer, will be the first U.S.
Ambassador to newly independent
Rwanda. A native of South Caro-
lina, Mr. Withers entered the For-
eign Service in 1943, and after serv-
ice in Africa, India and Pakistan,
was sent to ithe Imperial Defence
College in London in 1960. Then
in 1962 he, too, was named a For-
eign Service Inspector and is con-
tinuing in that capacity pending
confirmation of his appointment
as Ambassador by the Senate.

Mr. Korry, a native of New York,
was named Manager of Special Pro-
jects and Assistant to the President
of Cowles Magazine and Broadcast-
ing, Inc., in 1960, a position which

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

ye

 

The “diplomatic”
entrance to the De-
partment of State
building in) Wash-
ington, D.C.

he held until his government ap-
pointment, which is also awaiting
confirmation by the Senate. Mr.
Korry has been an overseas corres-
pondent for American publications
since World War II, serving in
England, France, Yugoslavia and
India. Mr. Korry played a promi-
nent role in setting up a relief pro-
gram for Greek Children and also
helped start the refugee program
in Hong Kong. During the past
year he was engaged as consultant
to Under Secretary of State and

WINTER, 1962

 

served as a public member on one
of the Foreign Service selection
boards.

In addition to the three ambas-
sadors already named, there are
nine other Washington and Lee
alumni serving in the Department
of State or with its Foreign Serv-
ice. In the Department of State
there is Henry E. Allen, B.S. ’34,
who is Foreign Affairs Officer in the
Office of International Conferences.
Mr. Allen has served in Mexico
and received the Department’s su-

perior service award in 1960.
Serving with the Department’s
Bureau of Intelligence and Re-
search are two Washington and Lee
graduates. Richard M. Herndon,
B.A. °41, a career Foreign Service
Officer, has become a Japanese lan-
guage specialist after several years
of service in that country. Mr.
Herndon is with the Bureau’s Of-
fice of Research and Analysis for
Far East. Richard K. Stuart, B.A.
"37, 18 engaged as Intelligence Re-
search Specialist in Office of Deputy

 

 

 

 

Director for Coordination. Mr.
Stuart came to the Department af-
ter a career of school teaching and
Army service.

Two other graduates are with
the Department’s Bureau of Edu-
cational and Cultural Affairs. Colo-
nel Francis P. Miller, B.A. ’14, is a
Foreign Affairs Officer in that Bu-
reau and he has had a distinguished
career with the Army and the Coun-
cil of Foreign Relations, as well as
various religious — organizations.
Colonel Miller has visited the cam-
pus several times to speak on pub-
lic affairs. Robert F. Stephens, B.A.
‘47, came to Bureau after serv-
ice in Africa with the U.S. Infor-
mation Service. He is now serving
as an Educational-Cultural  Ex-
change Officer in the Office of Afri-
can Programs.

The last of the Department’s of-
ficers is Paul M. Miller, B.A. ’38,
who has spent most of his service
as a career Foreign Service Officer
in Far Eastern posts. A Chinese
language specialist, he is serving
currently as an International Eco-
nomist with the Office of Southwest
Pacific Affairs.

‘There are three Washington and
Lee graduates abroad with the
Foreign Service. Grant E. Mouser,
III, B.A. ’4g, another career Foreign
Service Officer, has been in Ger-
many and Iran and is now Second

 

Secretary and Political Officer with
the American Embassy in Bonn,
Germany. Enjoying the balmy
scenes of Bermuda is David Whar-
ton, LL.B. ’37, who is a Consul at
Hamilton. Mr. Wharton served pre-
viously in Bermuda and in Afghan-
istan, New Zealand and Indonesia,
as well as on an inspection team.
Another favored officer is Allan G.

 

16

EpWARD M. Korry, 42

CHARLES D. WITHERS, °37

Seal.” B.S.
first foreign service assignment as
Political Officer at the Consulate
General in Hong Kong. His_pre-
vious duty was with the Army and
Navy.

The U.S. Information Agency has
attracted six alumni and two for-
mer professors to its service. In
Washington there is James R.
Barker, who was a student in 1944.
He is an information specialist
with the Informational Media
Guaranty Division of the Informa-
tion Center Service, and previously
served in several posts in Germany.
Edward F. Devol, Jr., B.A. ‘47, left
the newspaper world to join USIA
and is assigned as Supervisor and
Press News Editor, News and Fea-
ture Branch, Press and Publications
Service. Robert C. Goodell, who
was assistant professor of English
and German during 1954 to 1956, is
an Information Specialist with the
Office of the Program Manager,
Broadcasting Service. Mr. Goodell
has had previous service with the

50, who is serving his

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Agency in several posts in Ger-
many and Sudan. The other Wash-
ington and Lee graduate with the
Agency in Washington is Samuel
R. Hawkins, B.A. ’42, a Position
Classifier with the Classification
Branch, Personnel Division, Office
of Administration. Mr. Hawkins
was also employed with the Army
and the Treasury Department.
The U.S. Information Service
also has four Washington and Lee
men serving abroad. These in-
clude Brian Bell, B.A. ’49, who is
Press Attache at the American Em-
bassy in Mexico City and was for-
merly a foreign correspondent at
Buenos Aires. Richard D. Chap-
B.A. °50, is now Cultural
Affairs Officer at the American Em-
bassy in Kabul, Afghanistan. Mr.
Chapman served previously in Ger-
many where he was Executive Di-
rector of the German-American In-
(Tubingen) at Stuttgart.
Another former professor is Dr.
Edward D. Myers who was head of
the philosophy department from
1949 to 1961, when he went to
England to become the Cultural At-
tache iat the American Embassy in
London. The other Washington
and Lee graduate in USIS is Ben
A. Thirkield, B.A. 36, who is now
serving as Information Officer and
Attache at the American Embassy
at Lagos in Nigeria. Mr. Thirkield
has also served with USIS in South
Africa, Finland and Burma.

man,

stitute

Five Washington and Lee alumni
have chosen service with the Agency
for International Development. In
Washington there is James D.
Caldwell, a student in 1924-25, who
is currently Deputy Chief, Com-
munity Water Supply Branch, Of-
fice of Human Resources and Social
Development. Mr. Caldwell has
held positions with the Alabama
and ‘Tennessee state governments as
a sanitary engineer before going
abroad where his service has been
in various Latin American and
Caribbean countries. Also employed
in the AID’s headquarters is Ray-

WINTER, 1963

“
«

mond R. Wateski, a student in
1951-52, who is a Budget Officer
with AID’s Budget Division.
Washington and Lee men serving
overseas for the Agency for Inter-
national Development — include
Robert W. Reinhold, B.A. ag,
Public Administration Advisor at
the American Embassy in Rio de
Janeiro. Mr. Reinhold hias also

 

GRANT E. Mouser III, °43

been employed with the Home
Loan Bank Board and the Navy,
and has served in Pakistan. Joe J.
Sconce, B.A. ’51, is an Assistant Pro-
gram Officer with the AID mission
at Abidjan, Ivory Coast, and before
that was in Brazil. John E. Taylor,
a student in 1925-28, is now Malaria
Advisor with the AID mission in
Saigon, Vietnam. Mr. ‘Taylor has
been in public health work with
both state government and the U.S.
Public Health Service.

The lone Washington and Lee
official with the Peace Corps is Jan
W. Owen who was formerly Direc-
tor of Religious Activities, 1951-52.
Mr. Owen is now engaged as a
Peace Corps representative at
Kingston, Jamaica.

 

While the responsibilities are
heavy and demanding, the oppor-

tunities in the field of foreign af-

fairs are greater than ever now, and
it is hoped that more Washington
and Lee students and alumni will
respond to the challenge and pro-
vide their services. The above list

has shown that they may serve

abroad or at home for a number of

 

Puitie D. Sprouse, ’28

government agencies. President
Jefferson, who had served both as
Minister to France and as Secre-
tary of State, observed in a letter
dated July 12, 1801, that we ought
“to seek out the best through the
Union” and that a public servant

“...may not be able to perform
in person all the details of his
office; but if he gives us the bene-
fit of his understanding, his integ-
rity, his watchfulness, and takes
care that all the details are well
performed by himself or his nec-
essary assistants, all public pur-
pose will be answered.’

Washington and Lee men can
meet those standards.

All photos courtesy of the Department of State.

 

‘The 1963 Fancy Dress Ball

Beautiful Evans Hall Is Setting
For Civil War Centennial Theme

RADITIONS at Washington and
Lee are pretty easy to come by.
There have been two consecu-
tive Fancy Dress Balls held in Ev-
ans Dining Hall, so now it seems
traditional to hold the fancy part
of Fancy Dress in this beautiful but
somewhat complicated setting.

It isn’t complicated for the stu-
dent decorators for Fancy Dress.
Any attempt to decorate Evans
Hall is closely akin to gilding the
lily, for the columned and chande-
liered interior is spectacularly hand-
some, even when the feature at-
traction is hashed brown potatoes.

18

So the decorating job there is
minor, compared with the major
overhaul that Doremus Gymnasium
requires.

It is complicated for D. E. “Pat”
Brady, Jr., the University’s super-
intendent of buildings and grounds.
The tables and captains’ chairs
normally in use in the dining hall
must be removed from the building
to make room for the dancing and
figure-watching. Space-saving fold-
ing chairs must be brought in, then
removed after the figure is over,
and the permanent furniture re-
turned from storage after the ball

ends. It’s a big job that Mr. Brady’s
men handle relatively smoothly. It
gets really difficult when it snows
during the moving operation, as it
has for the past two years.

It’s. complicated, too, for the
Dance Board and the Social Func-
tions Committee. Evans Hall just
doesn’t hold as many people as
Doremus Gym. Students no longer
can have rock ‘n roll combos while
the University dances are in session,
so there isn’t much to do but go to
the dance. As a result, ‘‘costume’’
sales have soared these past two
years. And, going to Fancy Dress in

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Evans Dining Hall 7s more elegant
than going to Fancy Dress in the
gym, so the local gentry and others
show considerably more _ interest.
The snow that bothers Mr. Brady
helps the dance planners, however.
In both years, not as many came
as were supposed to come, so the
overcrowded conditions that seem
inevitable have not really material-
ized.

Except in the chaperone box.
Here, again, the planners have a
problem. ‘The prime vantage point
in Evans Hall is a rather narrow
balcony extending the width of the
main hall. Those who sit in the
front row can see everything. Those
who sit in the second row can see
the people in the first row and the
other end of the room. Those who
sit in the third row can see the
people in the second row. It’s hard
to get everyone who belongs in the
first row into the first row. Traffic
across the balcony gets unusually
heavy when the figure participants
troop up to greet the President,
Deans and other distinguished
guests.

‘Theme for the 1963 Fancy Dress
Ball was the Civil War Centennial.
Evans Hall was supposed to be the
Custis-Lee Mansion in Arlington
where General Lee was entertaining
the military commanders and the
civilian statesmen of the newly re-
united nation. Count Basie and his
orchestra were supposed to play for
the figure and the ball, but they
were delayed by snow and _ icy
roads. Stan Rubin and his ‘Tiger-
town Five, who were supposed to be
on hand for a Dixieland jam ses-
sion at midnight, arrived early and
filled in admirably. A few unre-
constructed rebels felt Rubin’s

An anxious moment in the Ev-
ans Hall kitchen as Fancy Dress
President HAM Emory ponders
further delay in the opening
figure, pending arrival of the
snow-hampered Count Basie
band. His lady, Miss Brtry
MEADE Brown, looks worried,
too.

WINTER, 1963

choice of the Battle Hymn of the
Republic for the figure accompani-
ment was subject to question.

For the second time in five years,
Robert E. Lee led the figure, al-
though this time he didn’t have a
beard. And the figure was a real
figure this year. Besides just walk-
ing out, the dance officers and fra-
ternity presidents and their dates
helped form an American flag with
the help of unfurled paper stream-
ers. It came off pretty well, al-
though few other than those in the
first row of the balcony could tell
what was going on.

To help cut down on the ex-
pense of Fancy Dress, only the boys
were required to rent costumes this
year. Girls were encouraged to wear

 

long dresses. Some did and some
didn’t; the few ladies in relatively
authentic attire looked wonderful
in their hooped skirts and puffed
sleeves. The girls dressed in slim
sheaths or short cocktail frocks were
pretty but somehow out of place in
a Civil War Setting. It all added up
to a semi-Fancy Dress.

Some folks look for still further
changes in the pattern of Fancy
Dress. ‘here was no souvenir print-
ed program this year, and the trend.
toward economies in costume ren-
tals may eventually eliminate cos-
tumes altogether. Student social at-
titudes change, and Fancy Dress it-
self has a record of change.

After all, they used to hold it up-
stairs at McCrum’s Drug Store.

"9

 

News of the University

Student Group Sponsors

Annual Service Award

Honoring Dean Gilliam

N ANNUAL award honoring Dean
A of Admissions Frank J. Gil-
liam has been established for stu-
dents at Washington and Lee Unt-
versity by the student government
officers.

‘The Frank J.
Award, designed to recognize an-

Dean Gilliam
nually the outstanding contribu-
tions to the University of a selected
student, will carry a $100 stipend.
Another $150 will be available for
the recipient to designate for use
by an organization or academic de-
partment of the University. ‘The
award will be financed by the Stu-
dent Body Fund which is supported
by the University’s student activi-
ties fees.

Dean Gilliam first came to the
University in 1926 as a member of
the English faculty. He became
Dean of Students in 1931 and
served concurrently as Dean of Stu-
dents and Director of Admissions
for a number of years. In February
of 1962 he began to devote his full
time efforts to the University’s ad-
missions program as Dean of Ad-
missions. ‘Through the years he has
earned the respect and admiration
of generations of students for his
devotion to student affairs.

He is a former director of edu-
cation for the American Presbyter-
ian Congo Mission in the Belgian
Congo.

20

Dean Gilliam founded the Unt-
versity’s Freshman Camp _— and
served as the camp’s director from
1928 to 1956.

The Gilliam award winner will
be selected in early Spring each
year by members of the student gov-
ernment Executive Committee and
the award will be made during a
student body assembly. A perman-
ent plaque, to be placed in the Stu-
dent Union, will carry winners’
names.

gw STUDENTS AND FACULTY paid. trib-
ute to General Robert E. Lee in a
special Founders’ Day Assembly
January 1g and university activi-
ties were suspended in honor of
George Washington on his_ birth-
day, February 22.

In his annual Founders’ Day ad-
dress, President Cole reassured the
students and faculty that the Uni-
versity “is in relatively good shape,”
but he added that “In no sense do
I suggest that all problems at this
University are being met with sat-
isfactory solutions. If the day ever
comes when we are satisfied with
our situation, we will no longer be
an educational institution. We are
educated and we educate ourselves
for change and progress.”

President Cole mentioned an ar-
ticle that he read recently which de-
clared that “Young people of to-
day have an uncertain future.”

 

DEAN FRANK J. GILLIAM inlerviews a pros-
peclive Washington and Lee man.

“When was there a time when
young people—and the old, too, un-
less they were dying after a life of
purposeful sin—had had a future
the

’

that could be called ‘certain’?’
president asked.

He cited the difficult period after
the Civil War when General Lee,
as president of Washington College,
helped to rebuild the war-torn
South. “Lee—perhaps of all South-
erners the one with greatest cause
for despair and discouragement—
did not lose faith, not in his God,
not in himself, and not in his fel-
low men,” President Cole said. “‘If
the future was uncertain for the
young college men who were at-
tracted to this campus by his pres-
ence, Lee purposed to make it a
future of promise and hope, not of
gloom and. pessimism.

“So, when I read of uncertainty
in this day, and when this uncer-
tainty 1s projected on a global scale,
I find it worthwhile to reflect on
the Reconstruction era and other
difcuty. “The
probems we face...are very real,

similar times of
but many others before us have
faced real problems and have over-
come them. Despite the uncertainty
of the future, which we shall nev-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

er escape and should never wish to
escape, I think there are reasons for
confidence in our abilities to con-
front and deal with it.”

 

@ THREE OF AMERICA’S most distin-
poets—Richard Eberhart,
Robert Lowell, and Howard Nem-
crov—participated in a_ series of

euished

readings and lectures in late No-
vember and early December.

Their appearance was sponsored
by the Glasgow Endowment Com-
mittee,

@ COINCIDING with the poets’ visit
was a lecture by ‘Dr. Northrop
Frye, Principal of Victoria College
of the University of ‘Toronto, who
spoke on “The Function of Imagery
in Modern Poetry” under sponsor-
ship of the Seminars in Literature.

# REYNOLDS PRICE, a young Ameri-
can writer whose first novel was
published earlier this year, was pre-
sented by the Seminars in Litera-
ture in early January.

Price is author of A Long and
Happy Life which appeared also
in full-length in Harper’s Magazine.

ProF. O. W. RIEGEL,
far left, strikes a typit-

cal pose, gs. three
Democratic Congres-
sional aides have a

chuckle at the expense
of a Republican col-
league. At the table
l-r, BoB BRADFORD, the
GOP man, NoRM Dos-
YNS, BoB MCNEIL, and
ANDY MCCUTCHEON.

WINTER, 1963

@ FOUR CONGRESSIONAL AIDES talked
about “‘Behind the Scenes in Con-
gress’ during a mid-winter panel
discussion sponsored by the De-
partment of Journalism and Com-
munications.

All Washington and Lee gradu-
ates and former journalism majors,
the panelists included Robert S.
Bradford, °55, administrative assist-
ant to Rep. Richard Poff, Norman
L. Dobyns, ’54, administrative as-
sistant to Rep. ‘Thomas N. Down-
ing; Andrew H. McCutcheon, ’48,
executive secretary t0 Rep. ~].
Vaughan Gary; and Robert B. Mc-
Neil, °47, legislative assistant to
Sen. A. Willis Robertson.

@ DR. LUKE FE. STEINER, chairman of
the chemistry department at Ober-
lin College, gave two lectures in
January under sponsorship of the
Chemistry Department. He spoke
on “We Need Intellectuals’ and
“Applications of Radio-isotopes to
the Study of Chemical Problems.”’

m APPEARING IN THE Seminars in Re-
ligion series, Dr. J. Kenneth Mor-
land, .chairman of Randolph-
Macon Woman's College’s Depart-
ment of Sociology and Anthropol-
ogy, delivered lectures in February.

Sponsored on the Series by the

Departments of Religion and Soci-
ology and the University Chris-
tian Association, Dr. Morland used
as his topics “Moral Relativism and

eer

Religious Faith” and “The Church:
Preserver of the Past or Innovator
of the Future?”

© PHILIP DEANE, director of the
United Nations Information Cen-
tre in Washington, D.C., discussed
“ashe GUN: and “Lhe:.Goncert. of

99

Nations’”’ in a February address.
The former director of information
for the Greek Ministry of Coordi-
nation was sponsored by the De-

partment of Political Science.

 

g TWENTY STUDENTS, two alumni,
and the featured speaker, Dr. Caryl
P. Haskins, were tapped for mem-
bership in the University’s chapter
of Omicron Delta Kappa, national
leadership fraternity, in ceremonies
December 10.

Law students tapped at the forty-
eighth annual ODK assembly were
William H. Clark, Jr., Richmond,
Va.; George Honts III, Beckley, W.
Va.; James Lewis Howe III, Phil-
adelphia, Pa.; R. Kemp Morton,

 

21

 

Charleston, W. Va.; and Richard L.
Rose, Allenhurst, N. J.

Undergraduate honorees — in-
cluded William P. Boardman, Co-
lumbus, Ohio; Landon _ Butler,
Memphis, ‘Tenn.; Edward Croft,
Atlanta, Ga.; Rodger  Fauber,
Lynchburg, Va.; Edward Holmes,
Winona, Miss.; Henry Knight,
Nicholasville, Ky.; E. Ross Kyger,
Fort Worth, ‘Tex.; Charles Lane,
Hopkins, Minn.; Charles ‘T. Mc-
Cord III, Shreveport, La.; G. An-
drew Nea, Williamsburg, Va.; Wiul-
liam A. Noell, Bluefield, W. Va.;
William B. Ogilvie, Jr., Shreveport,
La.; Robert E. Payne, Louisville,
Ky.; Anthony D. Schlesinger, Dal-
las, ‘Tex.; and Frank M. Young,
Birmingham, Ala.

New alumni members of the
chapter are John H. Hardwick, ’31,
president of the Louisville ‘Trust
Company, and Allen Harris, Jr.,
‘27, president of the Harris Man-
ufacturing Company of Johnson
City, ‘Tenn.

= TWO UNIVERSITY STUDENTS _ at-
tended the 14th annual Student
Conference on United States Affairs
at the U.S. Military Academy in
December.

Junior Alfred E. Eckes, Jr., Drex-
el Hills, Pa., and senior William P.
Boardman, Columbus, Ohio, par-
ticipated in the four-day confer-
ence along with some 215, other stu-
dents from 80 American and Cana-
dian colleges and universities.

Eckes, was one of four conferees
selected to appear on a WNBC-T'V
program after the conference and
had an opportunity to talk with
McGeorge Bundy, President Ken-
nedy’s assistant for national securi-
ty and former Dean of the Faculty
at Harvard University.

Keynote speakers for the confer-
ence were Dean Acheson, former
Secretary of State, and Prince Bern-
hard of The Netherlands.

Ariel, A LITERARY REVIEW written

99
_ =

and published by students, made its
campus debut in December.

Published entirely without facul-
ty supervision or University finan-
cial assistance, the first issue fo-
cused on ‘“Theatre of the Absurd”
and included also book reviews and
poetry as well as a report on the
recent American Poetry Festival.

John Refo, Norfolk, Va., is edi-
tor and business manager.

# THE CHRISTMAS SEASON saw stu-
dents participating in the tradi-
tional candlelight service and con-
tributing to a program for the in-
digent families of Lexington and
Rockbridge County.

The candlelight service in the
Robert E. Lee Memorial Episcopal
Church included Scripture readings
by seven faculty members and two
students and carol singing, led by
the Glee Club and accompanied by
the John A. Graham Brass Choir.

The University’s students con-
tributed to the Rockbridge County
Christmas Basket Program more
than $600 through fraternity col-
lections and from the offering given
at the candlelight service.

 

@ FORMER VIRGINIA GOVERNOR Col-
gate W. Darden, Jr. will deliver the
15th annual John Randolph ‘Tuck-
er Law Lectures on May g and 4.

The public addresses will coin-
cide with the University’s alumni
reunion program for the classes of
1913, 1923, 1938 and 1953. May 4
will be the official Law Day obser-
ance of the Law School.

A former United States Delegate
to the United Nations, Darden
served as president of the Univer-
sity of Virginia from 1946 to 1959.
He also represented Virginia in the
73rd, 74th, 76th and 77th sessions
of Congress and served two terms
as a member of the Virginia Gener-
al Assembly.

@ DR. WILFRED J. RITZ, professor of
law, recently won a prize of $1,000
for his entry in the second annual
Samuel Pool Weaver Constitution-
al Law Essay Competition of the
American Bar Foundation.

Dr. Ritz attended a meeting of
the Fellows of the foundation in
New Orleans Feb. 1 and 2 to accept
the prize for his paper entitled
“Free Elections and the Power of
Congress Over Voter Qualifica-
tions.”

A member of the University fac-
ulty since 1953 and a 1938 B.A.
graduate of Washington and Lee,
Dr. Ritz received his LL.B. degree
from the TT. C. Williams School
of Law of the University of Rich-
mond and holds LL.M. and S.J.D.
degrees from Harvard University.
He is faculty editor of the Law
Review.

@ TIMOTHY G. IRELAND, a senior law
student from Akron, Ohio, was
elected editor-in-chief of the Wash-
ington and Lee Law Review for
the second semester.

The current president of the stu-
dent body, he will direct a staff of
top law students in the preparation
of the Law Review scheduled for
publication next fall. Ireland, a
1960 B.A. graduate and a member
of Omicron Delta Kappa, succeeds
Andrew W. McThenia, Jr., a law
senior from Alderson, W. Va.

# A THREE-MAN TEAM from the Law
School participated in the national
Moot Court Competition in New
York in December.

The team, which took second-
place honors in state competiiton
in November, included law seniors
William H. Clark, Jr., Richmond,
Va., and Richard L. Rose, Allen-
hurst, N. J., and Donald H. Part-
ington, an intermediate law stu-
dent from Springfield, Va. Clark
tied with a Virginia law student
for the best individual argument
in the November competition.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

w PRINTS BY contemporary Oriental
artists living and working in the
Western world were on exhibit in
the duPont Art Gallery during
January. ‘The exhibition, titled
“The East in the West,” included
some 40 prints on loan from the
Ferdinand Roten Galleries in Bal-
timore, Md., and was the fifth in
the duPont Gallery since Septem-
ber.

An exhibition in the dining hall
during the first semester included
paintings by Pierre Daura of near-
by Rockbridge Baths and Charles
Smith of Charlottesville.

@ FORREST L. MOSES, JR., 756, of
Houston, ‘Tex., has become the
first alumnus to have a one-man
show in the duPont Art Gallery.

Some 30 of his paintings and
drawings were on display during
February. Many of the works were
done by Moses during a summer
stay at the home of artist Pierre
Daura at Rockbridge Baths.

Moses, 28, a native of Danville,
is a designer with an architectural
firm in Houston. He studied under
Dr. Marion Junkin, head of the
Fine Arts Department, and studied
interior design at the Pratt Insti-
tute in New York.

A former U.S. Navy Officer, he
was a design consultant with a Dal-
las, ‘Tex., firm before moving to
Houston.

# A FIVE-PERFORMANCE run of
Molhere’s ‘“Tartuffe’” was the sec-
ond production of the ‘Trouba-
dours this season.

Dr. Cecil D. Jones, Jr., assistant
professor of fine arts and director
of the Troubadours, played the role
of ‘Tartuffe. Other featured roles
were played by John Dunnell, a
senior from Brooklyn, N. Y., and
his wife Susie. Senior Andrew Ad-

WINTER, 1963

 

 

Smoke billows from Lee Chapel’s belfrey
during a mid-winter fire scare. A worker's
blowtorch ignited a paint remover vat,
but no damage was suffered by the chapel.

elson of Baltimore, Md., was Dr.
Jones’ associate director.

DR. JAMES G. LEYBURN, professor
of sociology, appeared as pianist
with two other artists in programs
sponsored by the Concert Guild
this winter.

He was heard with Hyman Bress,
violinist, in December and per-
formed a program of sonatas with
Leslie Parnas, cellist, in February.

‘The Guild presented the Dorian
Woodwind Quintet on March 1.

m CLASSICAL AND JAZZ guitarist
Charlie Byrd was sponsored joint-
ly by the Student War Memori-
al Scholarship Fund Committee
and the Concert Guild in a two-
hour concert in Doremus Gymunas-
ium March 9.

A former student of Andres Se-
govia, Byrd is currently appearing
in a Washington nightclub. He ap-
peared here with his accompanists,
the Village Vanguards.

SB JAY LAURENCE TAYLOR, instructor
in romance languages, is handling
arrangements for the series of films
being shown weekly in duPont Au-
ditorium.

Featured in the versatile series

are foreign films, classic American
films, silent films, cartoons, and doc-
umentaries.

And there have been added at-
tractions. A recent showing of
“Bakuba—People of The Congo”
was enhanced by a display of Baku-
ba articles which belong to Dean
and Mrs. Gilliam. When ‘“‘Tillie’s
Punctured Romance’ was shown,
“appropriate” piano music accom-
panied Charlie Chaplin’s master-
piece.

# A JOURNALISM DEPARTMENT film
festival being screened this semester
coincides with the Introduction to
the Motion Picture course of the
department.

Feature-length — films — include
directed by F. W. Mur-
nau; the first part of Sergei Eisen-

’

“Sunrise,’

stein’s never-released Mexican film;
‘The Informer,” directed by John
Ford; and “The Savage Eye,” a
mordant film of the American ‘‘new
wave” cinema.

 

© A TOTAL OF $6,020 from the Uni-
versity’s John M. Glenn Fund has
been granted to sixteen faculty
members for support of their re-
search and study projects for 1963.
Individual grants range from $150
to $goo.

The 1963 recipients, their aca-
demic departments and _ projects
are:

Dr. W. G. Bean, history, for com-
pletion of a Diary of the Confeder-
ate Hospital Steward, John Apper-
son, being edited for the Virginia
Historical Society, and for two
articles on members of General
Jackson’s staff and the “Occupation
of Lexington, July 1864.”

Charles P. Brockmann, romance
languages, for completion of his
doctoral dissertation on contempo-
rary French theologians and philos-

23

ophers and improving his compe-
tence in spoken French.

Dr. Lyman R. Emmons, biology,
for continued work on a “‘Cytogen-
etical Study of Humans.”

Thomas E. Ennis, Jr., account-
ing, for research and writing on his
doctoral dissertation entitled ‘““Man-
agement Services Performed by
Certified Public Accountants.”

Dr. Harmon H. Haymes, econom-
ics, for research on interest rate
theory and policy.

Dr. William A. Jenks, history for
the preparation of a manuscript on
‘“Taaffe’s Austria.”

Dr. Marion Junkin, fine arts, for
study of the art of the Orthodox
Church and for creative work in
Greece.

Dr. Samuel J. Kozak, geology, to
attend an international geological
conference in California that will
assist In instruction in structural
geology.

Dr. Charles V. Laughlin, law,
for continued work on a project on
the development of a natural basis
for a two-party system in politics
and the application of the princi-
ples of judicial proof of political
decisions.

Dr. Odell S. McGuire, geology,

for field work on paleontology on
ostracodes and the disaggregation
of the samples and mounting of
ostracode faunas for study.

Dr. Allen W. Moger, history, for
continued work on four chapters of
a book entitled Virginia in Transi-
tion, 1880-1914.

John Nichols, mathematics, for
work at the University of Virginia
on his master’s thesis on abstract
group theory.

Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr., eco-
nomics, for completion of research
and writing on the theory and prac-
tice of government regulation of
business in the United States.

Dr. Wilfred J. Ritz, law, for study
of the significance of the conflict of
laws clauses of the Federal Consti-
tution and the legal aspects of cer-
tain related commercial develop-
ments of the 18th century.

Dr. Leon F. Sensabaugh, history,
for completion of research on a
manuscript on the commercial and
diplomatic relations between Bra-
zil and the United States
1889.

Robert Stewart, fine arts, to at-
tend the Bennington Composer’s
Conference

since

in Vermont for two
weeks in August.

@ DR. WILLIAM M. HINTON, head of
the Department of Psychology, act-
ed as an evaluator in November for
the National Science Foundation,
serving on a panel reviewing pro-
posals for grants to State Academies
of Science.

o THREE COMPOSITIONS by Robert
Stewart, associate professor of fine
arts, received performances in New
York this winter.

‘These included “Trio No. 4” for
flute, violin and cello, which was
presented at the Donnell Library;
“Canzona and Ricercar for Brass,”
performed by the American Brass
Quintet at the New York Histori-
cal Society; and “Hydra for Six In-
struments,’ presented on the Group
for Contemporary Music Series at

Columbia University.

 

w A STEREOPHONIC tape recorder and
a motion picture sound camera
have been given to the Department
of Journalism and
tions.

Communica-

(Continued on Page 29)

Wrestling Triumphs Highlight Winter Sports Campaigns

m@ WASHINGTON AND LEE wrestlers en-
joyed their best season in over
twelve years as they posted a 1962-
63 record of eight wins and only
two losses.

Despite a 19-8 loss to powerful
Virginia in the season’s final match,
Coach Dick Miller labeled his soph-
omore dominated squad as the best
he had had in nine years as varsity
coach.

‘Two second-year men were the
outstanding performers. Pete Win-

24

field’s only loss came in the U.Va.
match by a 2-1 score, while Tom
Stover’s sole loss was at Franklin &
Marshall, the only other team to
defeat the Generals. Winfield wrest-
led usually at 167, with Stover a
regular at 137.

Among the Generals’ victims
were Duke, N.C. State, and West
Virginia. Since 1922, W&L has com-
piled a record of 195 victories, 95
losses, and six ties on the wrestling
mats, one of the best sports records
in the University.

Norris Eastman’s swim-
mers faced a rugged schedule with
good balance and a few outstand-
ing performers. The result was a
highly creditable 7-5 season slate.
In basketball, the Generals got
off to a slow start and then reduced
the pace. Illness, injuries, and aca-
demic problems were a season long
headache for Coach Bob McHenry.
The highlight was a well-deserved
victory over a good Hampden-Syd-
ney squad at Doremus. The final
count was 5-14 for the season.

Coach

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Anniversary Class Reunions

Are Scheduled for May 3-5 Weekend

‘Tucker Lectures and Law Day
Will Be Held Simultaneously
With Reunions; Classes Coming

Back Include 1913, 1923, 1938, 1953

N view of the highly successful
L combination of Anniversary
Class reunions and the John Ran-
dolph ‘Tucker Law Lectures last
year, a repeat performance has been
called for this spring. This occasion
enjoys the reputation among alum-
ni of being one of the most enjoy-
able and worthwhile weekends of
the college year.

Members of the anniversary class-
es will be interested in the enter-
taining program which is_ being
prepared. Preliminary outlines of
the program will be mailed to re-
union classes shortly. It is most
important that class members com-
plete the “reservation” card imme-
diately. As soon as possible after
these cards are returned, a list of
those who plan to attend will be
prepared and mailed to reunion
class members. ‘Thus they can, by
corresponding with one another,
plan to get together for the trip
back to Lexington.

The program will get underway
Friday, May 3, with registration at
2:00 p.m. followed in the late after-
noon by a reception. That night the
speaker for the first tucker Lecture
will be the Honorable Colgate Dar-
den, former governor of Virginia

WINTER, 1963

and former president of the Univer-
sity of Virginia. All reunion classes,
both academic and law, are cordi-
ally invited to attend. Saturday’s
program will feature a review by
the University’s administration of
new developments on the campus.
‘The second ‘Tucker lecture by Mr.
Darden will be heard at noon, and
the Law School Association will
hold its annual meeting at 3:00
p-m. The day will conclude with
individual class banquets and a
combined Reunion party. ‘The pro-
gram will be complete but not so
full as to prohibit alumni from
visiting local friends and_ places,
looking in on fraternities and just
plain browsing. Enjoyment, not a
“stop-watch” schedule, is the im-
portant feature of the day.

Alumni are urged to keep in
mind that hotel and motel space
has been block reserved. Reserva-
tions must be made through the
Alumni Office. Requests for reser-
vation cards will be mailed about
April ist and the deadline on res-
ervations is April 25. ‘There will be
no guarantee of accommodations
after this date. Reunion classes will
be lodged, as classes, in different
hotels or motels. Unless an alum-

nus makes a special request, he will
automatically be lodged with his
class. The headquarters and _ lodg-
ings for the classes are as follows:
The 50th Anniversary Class of
1913—Mayflower Inn; The 4oth
Anniversary Class of 1923—May-
flower Inn; The 25th Anniversary
Class of 1938—The Robert E. Lee
Hotel; and The 1oth Anniversary
Class of 1963—The Lexington Mo-
tel.

Upon arrival in Lexington, re-
union alumni will check in first at
the appropriate hotel. Here they
will find a complete program and
instructions. ‘The next step is to
register at the Student Union
Building to let the reunion com-
mittee know who is in town. There
are no plans for the supper meal
that night. Some alumni may want
to get with a group of classmates for
a dinner party and then proceed to
the ‘Tucker Lecture.

The ladies are especially invited
to attend all events. Dress will be
informal. Watch closely now for
all mailings and take prompt ac-
tion. ‘The entire University family
is looking forward eagerly to an-
other reunion weekend. Plan now
to be on hand!

 

A SYMBOL Of support and grati-
tude.

‘That is what your Alumni Asso-
ciation hopes the Lee Chapel nail
will mean to you—a symbol of
your support of Washington and
Lee University’s important place
in our nation’s program of higher
education, and a symbol of the as-
sociation’s gratitude, and that of
the University, for your part in
making possible Washington and
Lee’s continued and
progress.

Many good things happen when
you give to the Alumni Fund. Your
eift, along with thousands of others,
helps the University achieve spe-
cific goals, for Alumni Fund dollars
are active, working dollars. Your
gift also helps strengthen the con-
cept of the independent, privately
controlled institution, more spe-
cifically the relatively small liberal
arts college, an important part of
America’s highly diversified system
of higher education.

Washington and Lee exists to-
day because it has demonstrated
that the advantages it offers to
young men have marked effects
upon their successful careers. When

impressive

26

you, as one who has shared the ex-
perience of college education at
Washington and Lee, express your
confidence in the future of such ed-
ucation through your gift to the
Alumni Fund, your giving has far-
reaching effects.

The response to the Alumni
Fund appeal for 1962-63 is, at once,
both heartening and discouraging.
‘The heartening news is the level of
giving that the current campaign
has evoked. As the magazine goes
to press, contributions have totaled
$78,000, or approximately 68 per
cent of the announced goal of
$115,000. ‘The discouraging aspect
of the fund drive is that this im-
pressive giving has involved only
1,840 individual contributors, only
one in six of the University’s some
10,000 active alumni.

The Alumni Fund Council has
placed special emphasis this year on
full participation in the Fund by
all alumni. The goal is ambitious,
but it could be achieved, if every
alumnus who values his association
with Washington and Lee were to
consider the continuing relation-
ship of University and alumnus.
The University has a responsibil-

Alumni Fund Report

A Symbol
Of Your
Alumni Support

ity to you to maintain and improve
an already distinguished education-
al program. You have a responsi-
bility to the University and to your-
self to be an active participant in
this progress.

This year, everyone who sup-
ports the University through the
Alumni Fund will receive a hand-
forged nail used in the original
construction of Lee Chapel in 1867.
A supply of these nails became
available during the _ restoration
work now in progress at the Chap-
el. The nail will be embedded in
clear lucite, mounted on a small
stand for use as a desk or shelf orna-
ment. It will carry no mention of
the Alumni Fund, but small letter-
ing will identify its source. It is a
memento that every Washington
and Lee alumnus should treasure.

When you have your nail, the
Alumni Fund Council hopes that
you will reflect on it often, remem-
bering that you, like the nail, have
had a part in the building of an in-
stitution that is worthwhile and en-
during. You will be reminded, too,
of the gratitude that is yours from
your University, its faculty, and its
students.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

CLASS STANDINGS, FEBRUARY 15, 1963

Academic Classes

Class Number Amount Class Number Amount
1887-1912 94 D 5,124 1938 24 } 1,185
1913 8 750 1939 53 2,658
1914 22 811 1940 35 865
1915 13 620 1941 50 1,841
1916 12 985 1942 51 2,428
1917 15 885 1943 A&L 52 1,213
1918 A&I, 16 3,032 1944 A&L 43 1,212
1919 AXL 18 527 1945 A&L 20 3,435
1920 13 575 1946 A&L 29 705
1921 19 1,827 1947 A&L 12 386
1922 13 244 1948 19 496
1923 8 2,130 1949 35 1,350
1924 29 1,241 1950 52 1,559
1925 33 1,265 1951 46 989
1926 2h 1,006 1952 35 740
1927 9 375 1953 30 650
1928 34 3,038 1954 41 742
1929 2/7 1,020 1955 39 799
1930 41 2,910 1956 21 390
1931 34 1,487 1957 43 754
1932 27 930 1958 27 5,40
1933 2 1,370 1959 43 545
1934 31 1,212 1960 39 412
1935 2¢ 685 1961 31 340
1936 19 1,131 1962 20 2,718
1037 25 1,194 1963, 64, “65 5 80
Law Glasses

Class Number Amount Class Number Amount
1913 2 b 75 1937 5 4 320
1914 7 155 1938 4 110
1915 3 2,105 , 1939 6 200
1916 12 210 1940 4 70
1917 7 180 1941 7 525
1920 2 150 1942 5 280
1921 4 105 1948 16 360
1922 I 35 1949 7 235
1923 6 155 1950 11 171
1924 5 2655 1951 7 135
1925 35 70 1952 9 235
1926 5 145 1953 3 75
1927 6 520 1954 2 7
1928 4 360 1955 4 30
1929 3 135 1956

1930 5 375 1957 4 gl
1931 1 50 1958

1932 8 735 1959 2 20
1933 2 150 1960 g 25
1934 3 270 1961 3 17
1935 6 275 1962 1 1
1936 2 40

WINTER, 1963 27

 

A. L. ROBERSON, JR., ’30

 

HARRY WELLFORD, 746

 

BENJAMIN F. FIERY, 713

Nominating Group Needs Your Help!

HE STRENGTH Of any alumnzt as-
lL rests in the active in-
terest and participation of its mem-
The direction of this
strength into a program of progress

bership.

depends upon the leadership that
the association can draw upon.

An alumnus can contribute to
this progress in few more important
ways than nominating and support-
ing for election outstanding, capa-
ble men for the Alumni Board of
‘Trustees. he continued enthusias-
tic interest of the membership in
the make-up of the Alumni Board
and the effectiveness of its opera-
tions is one of the most powerful in-
fluences that alumni can exert for
the benefit of Washington and Lee.

This interest is yours! Your di-
rect participation in the democrat-
ic process of selecting leaders is
essential if the purposes of the as-
sociation are to be fulfilled useful-
ly and meaningfully.

In the general mecting of the
Alumni Association in June, 1961,
the Board of ‘Trustees presented a
proposal to amend the By-Laws to

28

increase the board’s membership
from seven to twelve. ‘The proposal
was unanimously approved.

The change makes possible a
more widspread representation,
not only along geographic lines,
but by class age as well. It makes
possible, also, the association’s more
effective use of the talents and ex-
perience of its members.

The one dozen men who make
up the board share a responsibility
for directing the energies of some
ten thousand other alumni into
activities and programs that benefit
themselves and Washington and
Lee University.

How did these twelve men come
to occupy such positions of respon-
sibility? Because other alumni, like
you, recognized their leadership
abilities and placed their names in
nomination for board membership.

It is a proven fact that members
of the Alumni Board of ‘Trustees
display an active and exceptional
interest in all affairs of Washing-
ton and Lee University and of the
association. ‘his interest continues

long after they have completed
their active service on the board.
Some began this closer relation-
ship with the association and the
University by taking a first step to-
ward more active participation—
direct interest and concern for the
nomination and election of the
men who preceded them as mem-
bers of the Board.

On this page are shown pictures
of the men appointed by President
Rodney M. Cook to serve as a nom-
inating committee for 1963. Per-
haps one of them lives in your re-
gion, or perhaps you'll recall one
as a contemporary of yours on the
Washington and Lee campus. In
any case, you'll recognize these
three as dedicated alumni who are
interested in seeing that good lead-
ers are nominated to the Alumni
Board of Trustees.

They must have your help if they
are to do their job in the best pos-
sible fashion. Act now! Name your
candidate for the Board and send
his name to one of the nominating
committee members today.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

(Continued from Page 24)

An Ampex 601-2 tape recorder is
the gift of Gilmore N. Nunn, ’31, of
Lexington, Ky., who also gave the
Communications Laboratory _ its
first tape recorder in 1950.

An Auricon sound camera has
been turned over to the department
by Station WDBJ-TV in Roanoke,
Va. The camera, the first sound
model for the department, will be
used in connection with documen-
tary and other film production and
for recording significant events on
the campus, according to Prof. O.
W. Riegel head of the department.

@ THE DEPARTMENT OF JOURNALISM
and Communications also was the
recipient this winter of a $1,000
grant from the Reader’s Digest.

The gift will provide traveling
and living expenses for journalism
students working on out-of-town
research and reporting projects.
Students qualifying for aid from
the new fund will be given specific
assigninents in news centers, includ-
ing Richmond, Washington and
New York. Some spot news and
news analyses from these trips will
be used by Home Edition, a nightly
news program produced by student
staffs, Professor Riegel said.

m@ FOR THE FOURTH consecutive year,
the University was chosen by the
Shell Oil Company to share in its
program of “Shell Assists.”

The gift of $1,500, according to
President Cole, includes $500 of
unrestricted funds, $500 for general
faculty development, and $500 for
professional development of indi-
vidual faculty members in chemis-
try, physics and mathematics.

m# AN UNRESTRICTED GRANT Of $1,000
was received from the Sears, Roe-
buck Company through the com-
pany’s new program of aid to pri-
vately supported colleges and uni-
versities.

WINTER, 1963

 

“Vlame Vour @ andlidate

In compliance with Article g of the By-Laws of the Washington
and Lee Alumni, Inc., we are listing below the names of the Nom-
inating Committee for the coming year.

Under the By-Laws, any member of the Association may sub-
mit the names of alumni to fill the vacancies on the Alumni Board
of ‘Trustees and the alumni representation on the University
Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

‘There are three vacancies to be filled on the Alumni Board of
‘Trustees and one vacancy for the alumni representative to the
University Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics. These vacancies
are to be filled at the June 1963 meeting of the Alumni Association.
Members are urged to submit names of their candidates for these
offices. The Nominating Committee will close its report on April
23, 1963. Present alumni trustees whose terms expire this year are:
Rodney M. Cook, ’46, James Bland Martin, ’31-L, and Andrew H.
Baur, °37. The term of I. ‘Thomas Baker, ’55, on the University
Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics also expires this year.

The Nominating Committee as appointed by the President

BENJAMIN F. FIiery, 713
1956 Union Commerce Building
Cleveland, Ohio

 

of Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., is as follows:

A. L. ROBERSON, JR., 930, Chairman
103 Woodrow Avenuc
Wilmington 3, Delaware

HARRY WELLFORD, °46
gi North Perkins
Memphis, ‘Vennessee

 

 

1899

Still in very active practice and at his
office for a full day every day, JAMES MUL-
LEN is completing his 63rd year in the
legal profession. He is senior member of
the firm of Williams, Mullen and Chris-
tian of Richmond. For the past several
years Mr. Mullen has specialized in tax
practice.

1904

Still spry for his eighty years, JOHN R.
HANDLAN has not missed Homecoming in
several years. He retired fifteen years ago
from U.S. Steel Corporation, and he and
his wife live on Chestnut Ridge in Fay-
ette County, Pennsylvania, where they
boast of a 2500-foot elevation.

1906

T. BRANNON HUBBARD, a physician in
Montgomery, Alabama, continues to work

 

CLass NOTES

each day. He attributes his excellent
health to his love for horseback riding
which he does every morning. To keep
him young, he enjoys his thirteen grand-
children and expects one grandson to en-
ter W&L this next fall. Dr. Hubbard took
an interesting trip to Russia in the sum-
mer of 1962.

1909

GEORGE J. DOMINICK, top-notch salesman
for the Sherwin Williams Paint Company,
has retired from the business world and is
living in Knoxville, ‘Tennessee.

1912

A Wise County, Virginia, school superin-
tendent has been named the county’s
outstanding citizen of the year. He is Dr.
JOHN JACKSON KELLY, JR., who will com-
plete fifty years of active service to the
Virginia educational system in June, 1963.

29

 

 

Don't Forget!

law Alumni!

Reunions.

 

Anniversary Class Reunions—May 3-5
Classes of 1913, 1923, 1938, 1953

The ‘Tucker Lectures and Law Day will
again coincide with the Anniversary

MAKE PLANS NOW TO BE ON HAND!

 

 

Dr. Kelly began his teaching career as
principal of Kenbridge High School in
1913 and became division superintendent
of Wise County schools on January 1,
1917. The present high school in Wise
bears his name.

1913

Guy M. Warp writes that some malady
several months ago impaired his eye-
sight, but the medics have hopes that time
will improve the condition. He would like
very much to attend his 50th reunion in
May. Formerly of Batesville, Arkansas,
Guy is residing this winter in Brooksville,
Florida.

1914

Retiring three years ago as General Coun-
sel for Aetna Life Insurance Company,
BERKELEY Cox and his wife took an ex-
tended trip to the eastern Mediterranean
countries. Accompanying them on part of
the trip was Berkeley’s brother WILLIAM
J. Cox, °17. The Coxs have settled in
Avon, Connecticut, “near the children.”
Three of the children, including Berke-
ley, Jr., 61 Law, and their families live
within thirty-minutes driving. Mr. Cox for
seventeen years has been chairman of the
trustees of ‘The Hartford Seminary Foun-
dation.

WALTER H. EAGER last August finished
a 50-year connection with Connecticut
Mutual Life Insurance Company of Hart-
ford as agent, district agent, special ag-
ent, and then general agent in West Vir-
ginia and also in Massachusetts. In 1928
Mr. Eager’s health forced him to move
to California where he and his wife have
lived since then.

30

Following World War I JoHN W. Suives
traveled some abroad and then went into
newspaper work and the printing business.
He followed this work with government
service in which he remained until his
retirement. Now he and his wife live
near the mouth of South River at Edge-
water, Maryland, where he spends much
time in gardening.

1915

His years of retirement are bringing
Jonau L. Larrick much pleasure as he
serves as custodian and guide for the Con-
federate Medical Exhibit, presented by
the Richmond Academy of Medicine
which is located in the center of the Med-
ical College of Virginia. Mr. Larrick has
spent most of his last forty years with the
Medical College of Virginia, and this con-
tinued association is gratifying to him.

Nicuotas B. Abas is professor of Spanish
at the University of North Carolina.

1916

An Ohio farmer of much renown, CLAr-
ENCE J. BRown is Republican U.S. Con-
gressman from Ohio. The former Lt. Gov-
ernor of Ohio in 1919-23 and Secretary
of the State of Ohio in 1927-33 has been
regularly reelected to Congress since 1938.
Congressman Brown is the ranking mem-
ber of the Rules Committee.

After 29 years of accredited service with
the U.S. Government as an architect for
federal building projects, Epp W. Derar-
MON, SR., retired and now lives in Lin-
colnton, Georgia. Married to a_ school
teacher, Macy Boxner, in 1928, the De-
Armons have two sons and three grand-
children. Edd has been a prominent mem-

ber of the Potomac Presbytery in Wash-
ington and is now an elder in the Presby-
terian church in Lincolnton.

Norvin C. EvAns and Mrs. Evans spent
the Christmas holidays at Edwards Air
Force Base, California, with their son,
Maj. N. C. Evans, Jr.

1918

Kk. V. Bowyer has been promoted to a
vice-president of the Roanoke Gas Com-
pany. Mr. Bowyer has been with the gas
company for thirty years. He began his
career as a salesman and was promoted
to sales manager a short time later. Dur-
ing the years he served as sales manager,
his department won many awards in the
eas industry.

1920

Epwarb GEE BAILEY is working as an ap-
praiser for State Planters Bank of Com-
merce and ‘Trusts and for a few insurance
companies in Richmond, Virginia.

1921

At the invitation of Governor Pat Brown,
Dr. DANIEL BLAIN has been the director
of the Department of Mental Hygiene of
California for four years. This depart-
ment Oversees sixteen hospitals with 22,000
employees. Dr. Blain has been acting also
as consultant to the National Institute
of Mental Health and was the U.S. rep-
resentative to the World Psychiatric As-
sociation. He now serves on the Council
of and has been nominated, unopposed,
to the presidency of the American Psychia-
tric Association, the oldest national medi-
cal association in the United States.

1922

Complimenting Dr. Dickey’s early train-
ing, LAwReNcE P. HAyNes writes he is
completing twenty-five years as head of
the physics department at Deerfield Acad-
emy in Massachusetts. He was unable to
attend his 4oth reunion last May due to
an operation from which he has happily
recovered in fine shape.

1924

EDWIN J. Gipson is chief mining engineer
for ‘The Evans Elchorn Coal Company of
Wayland, Kentucky. Ed lives in Garrett,
Kentucky.

As chief engineer for Stonega Coke &
Coal Company, W. Ciirrorp SMITH also
finds time for many civic responsibilities
in Big Stone Gap, Virginia. He is serv-
ing his sixth year on the Town Council,
is Deputy District Governor of District
24F Lions International, and is a mem-
ber of the Utility Committee of the Vir-
ginia Municipal League.

1925

Epwarb D. Matz is president of the Kurly
Kate Corporation in Chicago, where his

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

son, EDWARD, JR., 52, is now vice-president
in charge of sales.

GIBSON WITHERSPOON has been elected gov-
ernor for 1963 for the Louisiana-Mississip-
pi-West Tennessee District of Kiwanis In-
ternational. Mr. Witherspoon has _ also
been elected to the Board of Governors of
the Commercial League of America for a
three-year term.

H. Brown MILLER, general manager of
U.S. Plywood’s California division, was
honored with a luncheon at the Riverview
Golf and Country Club in recognition of
his fifteen years of service. ‘The Millers
live in Redding, California.

If the real estate business doesn’t keep
him hopping, JOHN M. Coprper’s family
does. John and his wife, Francis, have five
children—three sons and two daughters,
ranging from 2 years to 16 years in age.
The four in school have made outstand-
ing records in their particular classes.
John, himself, continues to do a lot of
hunting and claims he can still “out walk”
Cap’t Dick Smith.

Joun 'T. McVay, who has served as class
agent for several years, is in the whole-
sale bakery business in Huntington, West
Virginia. He and his wife will celebrate
their 25th wedding anniversary this year.
‘They have two fine sons. John says he de-
rives a great deal of pleasure serving as
class agent.

An outstanding-farmer award was given
to M. R. Bruin, Jr., of Pulaski County,
Virginia, by the Skyline Soil Conservation
District in November, 1962. This award
climaxes a three-year journey into retire-
ment for Mr. Bruin, who bought a 164-
acre section while still a teacher at the
high school in Herndon, Virginia. Mr.
Bruin bought land 300 miles from _ his
home in an attempt to get away from con-
gested areas and established the farm.
without any farm equipment, by making
weekend, vacation, and summer _ trips
there. He converted land growing in
briars and weeds to productivity, built a
barn, cleared areas for pleasure, contour
stripped the land, built ponds, and in
October the Bruins moved into a new
home on the farm.

1927

OLIVER C. DAwkins has recently been
named News Editor of the Louisville
(Ky.) Courier-Journal.

1928

GRAY YEATMAN is engaged in farming and
live stock raising. The Yeatmans live in
Batesville, Arkansas, and have a son, Cart-
er, who is making definite progress in the
Space age—he is in his sophomore year
at Virginia, majoring in aeronautical en-
gineering.

1929
Dr. W. W. Grass, pastor of First Presby-

WINTER, 1963

terian Church in South Boston, Virginia,
is an inspiring example of service to oth-
ers. In December Dr. Glass visited the
Red Cross Bloodmobile in his area. The
occasion was significant because it com-
pleted the fourth gallon of the life giving
fluid that he has donated. Dr. Glass was
presented with a pin by the local Red
Cross chapter.

McREE Davis is president and director of
the First National Bank in Garland, Tex-
as. He and Mrs. Davis have one son and
two daughters.

In heavy demand as a speaker, Henry P.
Jounston has made a number of. talks
based on his last trip to Europe and his
sixteen days’ experience behind the Iron
Curtain. Henry has just published a ge-
nealogical history book. “Little Acorns
from the Mighty Oak.” Henry is connect-
ed with radio and TV stations in Birm-
ingham, Alabama.

WALTER NELSON PHARR has been with the
aviation industry for thirty years and re-
ports a wonderfully interesting vocation.
Mr. Pharr has just retired after twenty-
five years with American Airlines, during
which time he was in command for ov-
er 5,000,000 miles—over twenty times the
distance to the moon. Actually, Mr. Pharr
is only semi-retired, for he lives with his
family in New York City, looks after oil
investments, and travels. He is also attend-
ing the Columbia Graduate School of
Oceanography, taking a course in this
subject.

‘T. GrAnAM GiBson has recently been
elected to the board of directors of the
Eskimo Pie Corporation in Richmond,
Virginia. Mr. Gibson is also a vice-presi-
dent of the company.

1930

Having been 1962 president of the Rich-
mond (Virginia) Academy of Medicine,
Dr. JoHN P. LyNcH now becomes Chair-
man of the Board for 1963. John is also
an elder of the First Presbyterian Church
in Richmond.

M. E. PADGETT, JR., of Bedford has recent-
ly been named a member of the advisory
board of the First National Exchange
Bank—Peoples Branch—in Bedford, Vir-
ginia. Morton is a lawyer in Bedford. His
appointment was announced by E. H.
OULD, ‘29, bank president.

Lynchburg attorney, Epwarp S. GRAVES,
was elected to the Board of Trustees of
Randolph-Macon Woman's College on
October 26th, 1962. Mr. Graves has been
associated with Edmunds, Baldwin, and
Graves in the practice of law since 1946.
He was with the legal division of the
Puerto Rico Reconstruction Administra-
tion from 1935-37 and in the U.S. Naval
Reserve from 1942-46. He is co-chairman
of the Tri-Partite Committee for the
Lynchburg Area Community College, on
the Advisory Board of Directors of the
First National Trust and Savings Bank, on

the Board of Trustees of the Marshall
Lodge Memorial Hospital, and a past pres-
ident of Lynchburg’s Chamber of Com-
merce. Mr. Graves is also a lecturer in le-
gal draftsmanship at the Washington and
Lee School of Law.

1932

After eight years in the Louisiana State
Senate, JAMES D. Sparks has retired from
the political arena and is practicing Jaw
in Monroe, Louisiana.

Between January, 1959, and March, 196i,
JAck G. Marks has served twenty-seven
months as city attorney for Tucson, Ari-
zona. He has recently been appointed
Court Commissioner of the Superior
Court of Arizona, in and for the County
of Pina, and in addition he serves as
court commissioner, a post he has held
since July, 1961.

C. EpMonDs ALLEN has been in newspaper
work since graduation, including vari-
ous positions with United Press Inter-
national—editor, bureau manager, direct-
or Of special services. In New York Mr.
Allen belongs to The Players, The Lambs,
Dutch ‘Treat, and the New York City
Civil War Round Table. He is also a
member of the National Press in Wash-
ington.

R. W. REINHOLD is Management Planning
Advisor in the U.S. A.I.D. Mission to
Brazil. He expects to return to the states
in November, 1963.

KENNETH R. Routon retired from the
FBI in 1960 after twenty-four years of ser-
vice. He is now a security representative
for Republic Aviation Corporation in
Farmingdale, New York. The Routons
have two girls in college and a son who
hopes to enroll in Washington and Lee
in 1965.

A kidnap specialist and a veteran law en-
forcement officer, DONALD S. HOSTeETTER,
known across the country as “a tough,
hard-working cop,’ took charge of the
Pittsburgh office of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation in October. Although
during his twenty-eight years with the
FBI Mr. Hostetter has gained a reputa-
tion as a specialist in kidnapping cases,
he has worked on every type of crime un-
der Federal jurisdiction. The increasing
number of bank holdups, which are a
part of a general pattern across the
country, is a matter of immediate con-
cern to him. This increase is partly be-
cause of the general increase in crime
and the large number of branch banks
now in operation, which makes easier
targets for holdups. Mr. Hostetter stres-
sed that in Pittsburgh his agency will
cooperate fully with State and local po-
lice to curtail crime.

1933

The Rev. JoHN W. WomELporr and fam-
ily of High Point, North Carolina, spent
the month of August in Womelsdorf,

31

bc a a a

Pennsylvania, on an exchange of pulpits.
An incidental feature was the attempt to
ascertain if the Virginia Womeldort’s were
directly connected with those of the Penn-
sylvania Dutch country. The North Caro-

lina Womeldorfs were warmly received
and at the close of their stay were pre-
sented with a top hat, bonnet, and _ tie,
symbols of the gooth anniversary of the
founding of the Pennsylvania borough.

I. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., vice-president
of administrative services of the Campbell
Soup Company and a director of the Na-
tional Association of Manufacturers, at-
tended a meeting of the Middle Atlantic

0000000806000 0809H08HHOHHHOH8HH8HHOHOHHH8HSFOHHO0HGECOHOHOOHHH8HH88HHH88HEOHEOHHH8BHGCOO88SEHO88EHO8EEO

Former Drama Critic Is Now a Novelist

By Bitt Hupcins
B.A., Class of 1938

NOVELIST HAS come out of Dean
A Frank J. Gilliam’s  experi-
mental seminar in Creative Writ-
ing of 1931-32. Bill Hawkins’ nov-
el, The Big Red Pocketbook, was
released by publishers Appleton-
Century on February 11th.

Hawkins reminisces that he was
one of half a dozen students en-
rolled in Mr. Gilliam’s course and
he says he considers it was of ines-
timable and memorable help to
him in subsequent writing.

Although The Big Red Pock-
etbook is the first Hawkins book
to be released, Bill has completed
two other novels and is now finish-
ing a third unpublished | one.
“Pocketbook” (employing a Broad-
way habit of shortening long titles)
originally was 780 pages long. ‘The
author then cut it to 270 pages and
now the number of pages in the
published edition les between
these figures.

Hawkins was president of ‘The
‘Troubadours while at Washington
and Lee, and played leading roles
in many productions. He was presi-
dent of Beta Theta Pi fraternity,
and was an active member of many
other organizations and clubs. He
received his B.A. degree in 1933
and his LL.B. degree in 1935.

Despite the possession of a law
degree, Hawkins went straight from
school into the field of journalism.
He served as New York story editor
for Samuel Goldwyn and Columbia
Pictures.

Later he started writing a night

 

Britt HAWKINS

club and restaurant column, “Tips
On ‘Tables,’ for the New York
World-Telegram. ‘The column was
widely read and so popular that
when Bill went on active duty in
the Navy during World War II,
publication of the column was
continued by another journalist.

After the war William W. Hawk-
ins became one of the powerful
drama critics of New York. He
served as drama critic for the
World-Telegram for ten years, from
1946 until 1956, when he retired to
become a novelist.

Bill Hawkins was a natural for

 

(Editor’s Note: Bill Hudgins, author of
the accompanying article on Bill Hawkins,
like Hawkins, holds a LL.B. degree as
well as a B.A., but has pursued a career
in Public Relations and is now Cruise
Director and Lecturer on a_ four-con-
tinents, 63-day cruise on the SS Argen-
tina of the Moore-McCormack Lines.)

journalism. “Chere is printers’ ink
in his blood from both sides of his
family. His distinguished father,
the senior William Hawkins, was a
native of Springfield, Missouri, and
United
Press and later Chairman of the

became president of the

Board of Scripps-Howard News-
papers.

Bul’s = mother was Margaret
Wright of Louisville, Kentucky.

She was first cousin to the late
Emma Speed Sampson, who was
author of a number of books and
Entertainment Editor and Drama
Critic for the Richmond Times-
Dispatch as well as the first woman
member of the Virginia State Board
of Censors.

During the summer after Bill was
graduated from prep school, he
took a motor trip through Virginia
with his father, mother and two
brothers. Bill took one look at
Washington and Lee, liked it, and
it became his home for the next
SIX years.

A few years ago Bull Hawkins
returned to Lexington to lecture.
He humorously points out that
were
teachers in attendance in Lee Chap-

there many of his former
el, and he had a fine feeling of re-
venge in seeing the tables turned
on professors in his captive audi-
ence.

Novelist Hawkins was literally
born on Broadway in New York
City. Years later, from 1946 until
1956, he saw his own name in front
of nearly every Broadway theatre
with quotes from his hundreds of
reviews of shows.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Region and participated in a discussion
of income tax reforms with the vice-chair-
man of the board of NAM.

VERNON BRANTLEY has published a gene-
alogy entitled “Some of the Green Brant-
ley (1795-1858) Descendants.” ‘The work
lists approximately three thousand of
the Green and Mary (Solomon) Brantley
descendants.

H. ArrHur LAMAR has been transferred
to Atlanta as Regional Inventory Super-
visor for the Singer Sewing Machine Com-
pany. ‘he company’s regional agencies
are in Atlanta, Tampa, New Orleans, and
Houston.

On November 15th CLAupr A. LAVARRE re-
turned to Lima, Peru, to take over the
management of the Singer Sewing Ma-
chine Company’s activities in Peru. This
is the same office in which he started work
for this company twenty-eight years ago,
and since then he has been stationed in
Singer offices in many South and Central
American countries.

1934

The only Washington and Lee man on
the Court, “THORNTON G. BERRY, TR, 48
president of the Supreme Court of Ap-
peals o fWest Virginia. Layne H. Ford, a
former classmate, is in the same law office
with ‘Thornton.

1935

RICHARD ‘T, KELLEY is with Emerson Elec-
tric Manufacturing Company in St. Louis,
Missouri. He is in charge of the depart-
ment that handles contractural matters,
does administrative planning and_ cost
controls. The department of Emerson puts
out 350 technical manuals and is respon-
sible for updating the technical manuals
for the United States Air Force.

ROLLAND H. BEeRRyY is in real estate de-
velopment and general contracting for
commercial buildings in Harrisonburg.
His two sons are engineering students at
V.P.I. ‘he younger son, Page, is presently
the President of the Virginia Division of
“Children of the Confederacy’—a division
of the United Daughters of the Confed-
eracy.

GEORGE R. GLYNN is assistant vice-presi-
dent of Burlington Hosiery Co. in New
York. He is presently in charge of the
sales in the Northeast region but writes
that after the first of the year will have
additional territory extending into the
mid-west. This added responsibility in-
cludes supervision of five additional men
out of the Chicago office. The Glynns live
in New Canaan, Connecticut.

1936

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. KENNETH G. MAC-
DoNALD, a daughter, Jeanne Elspeth, on
October 24, 1962.

Since 1958 WALTER T. LAwtTon has been
leader (minister) of The Ethical Society

WINTER, , 1963

 

of Northern Westchester in Ossining, New
York. Walter and his wife, Grace, have
three children, two boys and a girl.

HucuH J. BONINO is secretary-treasurer of
the rapidly expanding Metro-Atlantic,
Inc., a firm specializing in chemicals and
dyestuffs for textile, paper, and leather
industries. The corporation, with its main
plant in Centerdale, Rhode Island, has
just opened a new plant in Greenville,
South Carolina. A Metro-Atlantic (Eur-
ope) Corporation in Brussels, Belgium,
has also been formed in order to service
the European Common Market.

 

JAMeEs S. BRUCE

1937

The Eastman Kodak Company announces
the appointment of JAMrs S. BRUCE as di-
rector of the company’s business and
technical personnel department. Mr. Bruce
began his Kodak career in 1939 as an
engineer. In 1952 he was appointed assist-
ant superintendent of the paper service
department and four years later was
named assistant director of company train-
ing. He was appointed director of training
In 1957.

L. D. “Lew” WILLIAMS writes that though
he is eternally hopeful, he is still single.
Lew is sales manager, special projects, for
Miles Chemical Company and _ lives in
Elkhart, Indiana.

WILLIAM C. WILBour, Jr., and his family
spent two months traveling in Europe
last summer. Bill is professor of history
and chairman of the History and Social
Science Division at Florida Presbyterian
College in St. Petersburg, Florida.

KeNT Forster returned this year to his
post as professor of European History at
Penn State after a year as a Fulbright
Lecturer at the University of Vienna.
During his Austrian sojourn he met Wash-

ington and Lee’s’ Professor Witt1aAM
JENKs, °39, On a number of occasions. Dr.
Jenks was also in Vienna on leave from
Washington and Lee on a_ professional
mission. Among Professor Forster’s  in-
teresting experiments was a lecture tour
of several Jugoslav universities in the
midst of the Balkan winter.

1938

Active in medical associations since 1944,
Dr. MARTIN C. CAssetr is president of the
New Jersey Associations of Osteopathic
Physicians and Surgeons. The state asso-

 

Dr. MARTIN C. CASSETT

ciation under his leadership has won ac-
claim for its vocational guidance program
and its participation in Civil Defense ac-
tivities. Dr. Cassett received his medical
degree from the Philadelphia College of
Osteopathy. He is also president of the
board of directors of Cherry Hill Hospi-
tal. ‘The Cassetts have two children.

GEORGE F. BAUER expects to receive his
master’s degree in business administration
from Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, in
January, 1963.

CALVERT ‘THOMAS is on the legal staff of
General Motors Corporation. He and _ his
wife with their three children live in
Franklin, Michigan, where Calvert has
been reelected for a second term as Presi-
dent of Franklin Village.

Governor Harrison of Virginia appointed
Watpo G. MILEs to the State Board of
Education, effective the latter part of Jan-
uary. ‘The Governor stated that Miles’
background as ‘an able lawyer and out-
standing civic leader, along with his ex-
perience on many state study commissions,
makes him ideally equipped” to serve on
this board. Mr. Miles is president of the
Virginia State Bar Association, a member
of the Bristol, Virginia, school board, and

33

a member of a state tax study commis-
sion. Other board members include Lewis
IF. POWELL, JR., ’29, and State Senator
Mossy G. PERROW, JR., ’30. In the fall Mr.
Miles was also appointed by Governor
Harrison as one of the public members of
a 15-man ‘Vax Study Commission directed
by the 1962 General Assembly to study
the entire tax structure of Virginia, both
state and_ local.

1939

WILLIAM KiNG SELF has recently been
elected president of the Board of Di-
rectors of the Memphis Branch of the
Federal Reserve Bank. Bill is also a mem-
ber of the Board of Trustees of Missis-
sippi College in Clinton, Mississippi.

A confirmed “commuter,” ALAN B.
Hoppers has been traveling from Arling-
ton, Virginia, where his family lived to
Massachusetts, where he is employed, ev-
ery two to three weeks. Alan has now
succeeded in moving his wife and three
children to Massachusetts to their new
home on Fiske Hill Road in Sturbridge.
He is assistant to General Counsel for
the American Optical Company.

Bank examiner, HERBERT C. SIGVARTSEN,
is with the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation in Fifth District (Headquart-
ers, Atlanta, Georgia), stationed at ‘Tam-
pa, Florida. ‘The Sigvartsens have three
children, seventeen, sixteen, and twelve
years old.

ANDREW J. WHITE is president and owner
of the Palmetto Loom Reed Company,
manufacturers of textile weaving supplies,
and he and Mrs. White and their three
chilren live in Greenville, South Caro-
lina.

1940

A seasoned traveler, MICHAEL CROCKER
took a ten thousand mile trip last sum-
mer through the United States and Can-
ada, culminating at the American Bar
Meeting and World’s Fair in San Francis-
co. While in California Mike visited class-
mate Lou PLUMMER, who is Fruehauf’s
area manager. Mike is a trial lawyer with
Piper & Marbury in Baltimore. He and
his wife, the former Rose Fletcher, have
a son, Forest, age fourteen, and two daug-
ters, Berthenia who is thirteen and Rosa
who is eight.

HAMILTON G. Disprow, JR., is working at
the 3M Company, Roofing Granule Plant,
Belle Mead, New Jersey, in charge of plant
security and safety. The Disbrows have
two sons—James, who is ten years old,
and David, who is nine.

Dr. Lioyp Epson Worner has been ap-
pointed Dean of The Colorado College in
Colorado Springs, Colorado.

Homer D. Jones is Director of Develop-
ment for Princeton Theological Seminary.
He writes that this institution was start-
ed in 1812 by a Rockbridge (Virginia)

34

County boy. The Seminary is embarking
on a large ten-year development campaign.

STANFORD L. SCHEWEL is in the general
practice of law in his own firm in New
York City.

The director of publicity for CBS Films,
Inc., Ropert A. FuLier, has taken on
added activities. He is a member of the
Board of Directors of the United Nations,
a board devoted to convincing organiza-
tions and individuals to commit them-
selves publicly for a more effective
United Nations and to the principles set
forth in the UN charter. Mr. Fuller is al-
so teaching a class, ‘What Makes News,”
on Saturday mornings to freshman and
sophomore students at Tappan High
School, Orangeburg, New York.

EUGENE M. Kramer, formerly in motion
picture business and enterprises, has par-
tially retired and has accepted an appoint-
ment as a Foreign Service Officer in the
United States Government. Gene has been
assigned as Director of the America House
in Koblenz, Germany, where he assumed
his duties on September 25th. Mrs. Kram-
er has joined him in Germany while their
two sons are in prep schools in the states.

1941

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM Lee SHAN-
NON, a son, John Stout, on October 109.
1962. ‘he Shannons now have five daugh-
ters and two sons. Lee was recently elect-
ed to the Board of Education in Shelby-
ville, Kentucky.

GEORGE I. McINERNEY was appointed in
January as Suffolk County Judge. This
county in New York has a population of
over 750,000 people and the County Court
handles all felonies and civil jurisdiction
up to $6,000.00 The former county judge,
who is now Supreme Court Justice D.
Ormonde Ritchie, was in the Washing-
ton and Lee class of 1925. George is mar-
ried to the former Genelle Walton of Ft.
Worth, Texas, and they have six children.

Harry G. KINCAID is a member of the
Jacksonville, Florida, law firm of Knight,
Kincaid, Poucher and Harris. A former
member of the Board of Governors of
the American Red Cross, Harry was 1962
president of the Jacksonville area Cham-
ber of Commerce. He and his wife have
three daughters and one son, whom
Harry identifies as “ a prospect.”

Still a pilot-captain fiying with American
Airlines, WILLIAM L. (BILL) Evans is also
practicing law with the firm of Garrett
& Garrett in Fort Worth. He manages to
do both quite well. His legal practice
specializes in the aviation field.

The mayor of Lawrenceville and_ vice-
president of the Thomas Hardware and
Furniture Company. WittrAm L. HEart-
WELL, JR., will become the director of in-
dustrial services for the Virginia State
Chamber of Commerce on January 1,

1963. He is founder of the Lawrenceville
Industries, Inc., an organization seeking
new industries. HEARTWELL served two
years on the VALC committee on Water
Resources and is co-author of a history on
Brunswick County.

HERBERT P. FRIEDMAN, Jr., is practicing
obstetrics and gynecology in La Mirada,
California. Dr. Friedman holds two po-
sitions also at the University of South-
ern California School of Medicine; assis-
tant professor of obstetrics and gynecolo-
gy and research director of the Floures-
cent Cytology Section of the Department
of Pathology. The Friedmans have three
children.

Jack W. WARNER, president of the Gulf
States Paper Corporation, ‘Tuscaloosa,
Alabama, has been elected a member of
the Board of Directors of Southwestern
University at Memphis. He was chosen
by the Presbyterian Synod of Alabama in
June, 1962, for a four-year term.

1942

Joun B. MacBrine is assistant advertising
manager for Industrial Insulations of
Johns-Manville Sales Corporation in New
York City. As an avocation, John does
some painting, plays several musical in-
struments, and acts in amateur plays. ‘The
MacBrides have two boys and three girls.

Dr. Wuitr N. Scuuttz of Wilmette, Il-
nois, has been elected to the Hall of Fame
at Webber College, Babson Park, Florida.
Dr. Schultz, who has taught over 10,000
adult evening school students creative
thinking and selling by mail at New Trier
Township High School and the Central
YMCA, is a member of the public rela-
tions staff at Illinois Bell Telephone.

EvANs ALEVIZATOS Curiss is practicing law
with the firm of Gordon, Feinblatt, and
Rothman in Baltimore, Maryland. He spe-
cializes in wills and estates. In June, 1962,
Evans was elected to the Board of Trus-
tees of Holy Cross Greek Orthodox Theo-
logical School in Brookline, Massachusetts.

After serving as a member of the faculty
since 1955 and as academic dean _ since
1957, KENNETH S. CLENDANIEL has been
named Director of Development for Clear
Creek Baptist School of Pineville, Ken-
tucky.

JAMeEs S. Hitt and his brother, Tom, are
partners in George W. Hill & Company,
which will celebrate its 100th anniversary
in 1963. The Covington (Kentucky) firm
is a distributor of seed and garden sup-
plies.

FLoyp K. YEoMANS and his wife, Angie,
took their two children to Europe this
past summer. Francie is a junior at Dobbs
while son, Bob, is an applicant for Wash-
ington and Lee in 1966. The Yeomans
live in Janesville, Wisconsin.

Epwarp M. Korry recently completed his

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

duty as the public member of the For-
eign Service Selection Board for Class One
officers, a board making recommendations
for promotions. ‘This was Mr. Korry’s
second service with the Government this
year, for in May he was a consultant to
Under Secretary of State, George Ball, and
was placed in charge of handling the cri-
sis that arose over Chinese refugees flood-
ing into Hong Kong. Mr. Korry is also
a member of the Council on Foreign Re-
lations, on the editorial advisory board
of The International Institute of Educa-
tion, and is serving on a_ three-man
group making recommendations concern-
ing the United States pavilion at the
New York World’s. Fair.

1943

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. HAVEN W. MANKIN,
a daughter, DeLeslie Patricia, on Janu-
ary 22, 1963. Haven is practicing radi-
ology in Oklahoma City. The Mankins
have four sons and Haven writes that
“Leslie’s” arrival is the biggest news from
them in years.

Since 1946 Joun E. Zompro has been with
Sunkist Growers, Inc., and is now assist-
ant district manager in New York. The
Zombros have three children: John, six-
teen years old; Stephen, thirteen years old;
and Nancy, eleven years old.

BrEVERLY Firzparrick and the family of
“five Fitz’ attended Homecoming _ this
fall. “Bev” is chief judge of Roanoke’s
Municipal Courts and is serving on the
Governor’s Highway Safety Legislative
Advisory Committee. An elder in the
Presbyterian Church, he is in his fifteenth
year as a Sunday School teacher of high
school seniors. ‘The Fitzpatricks have
three sons, ages 16, 12, and Q.

Beginning in 1947 with The Home In-
surance Company, RoBerr C. MEHORTER,
has progressed steadily. He is now in
charge of the Southwestern Department
covering all states from Virginia to Flor-
ida. Bob has recently been promoted to
Assistant Secretary of the insurance firm.

The former news director of Lynchburg
radio and television station WLVA, FRaAn-
cis R. (FRAN) RusseELL, has resigned that
position to join Babcock & Wilcox Com-
pany of Lynchburg as coordinator of pub-
lic relations. Fran will report directly to
the manager of the Atomic Energy Divis-
ion Staff Department of Babcock & Wil-
cox. A former newspaper and radio man,
he began his career at Marion. Fran won
national recognition for Southern States
Cooperative with a radio program which
he conducted in Bristol and also won a
Freedoms Foundation award from Veter-
ans of Foreign Wars. He is married to the
former Hilah May Hinty of Lexington
and the couple reside in Lynchburg.

Announcement has been made by the
Advertising Sales Director of Sports Illus-
trated that Roperrt P. Tyson has been
promoted to Manager of the Philadel-

WINTER, 1963

ROBERT P. Tyson

phia Branch. Tyson was a retail repre-
sentative for Life magazine in Philadel-
phia and Washington and had five years’
experience with Look magazine before
joining Sports Illustrated. Bob is a direct-
or of the Bert Bell Memorial Football
Conference and a member of the Rac-
quet Club, the Merion Golf Club and the
Suburban Squires in Philadelphia.

Dr. JAy D. Cook, JR., professor of account-
ing at Washington and Lee, has been
named president of the Rockbridge-
Buena’ Vista Association for Mental
Health. HENRY ForrsMan, ‘48, was elect-
ed treasurer.

Jack C. Morretu is vice-president of the
Continental-American Branch of the Com-
mercial National Bank in Shreveport,
Louisiana.

 

WiILtiAM B. VAN BurReEN III

 

1944

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Roserrt H. Moore,
a son, Robert Henry Moore, III, on Oc-
tober 28, 1962. The family lives in Cleve-
land, Ohio.

WILLIAM B. VAN Buren, III, recently was
appointed to the new position of director
of planning for Merck, Sharp & Dohme.
In 1955 Bill joined Merck and Company
as an attorney in the Legal Department
and then progressed to the position of
counsel for the company and in 1960
was named assistant to the General Man-
ager. The Van Burens live in Strafford,
Pennsylvania, with their four children.
He is a member of the New York Bar
Association of the City of New York.

Associated in the law firm of Moore and
Stanfield of Paris, Ilinois, JAMEs C. STan-
FIELD has been elected to a fifth term as
Republican County chairman, Edgar
County, Illinois. Jim and his wife have
two children.

Dr. W. C. CRITTENDEN is a_ practicing
pediatrician in Birmingham, Alabama.
He and his wife, Conde, and three child-
ren recently visited in Lexington, Virginia.

GrorcE ‘T. Woop is general sales manager
for Special Products Company, manufac-
turers of fireplace accessories and_ resi-
dential lighting fixtures in Chattanooga,
Tennessee. George spent last Labor Day
holiday with CLANCY BALLENGER, ’44, and
his family in Spartanburg, South Caro-
lina.

At its g9th annual convention in San
Francisco, the National Renderers Asso-
ciation elected WiLLIAM R. MALLoy as its
first vice-president. He is secretary-treas-
urer of the Lynchburg (Va.) Rendering
Company.

1945

The president of an electric and appli-
ance company in Washington, D.C.,
JoserH M. ZAMOIsKr is now serving on the
Advisory Council of the Small Business
Administration of the U.S. He was also
recently elected president of the Variety
Club of Washington, a charitable organ-
ization which has constructed and oper-
ates a research center at the Children’s
Hospital. He and his wife, Suzanne, have
two children.

CHARLES H. STONE is a surgeon, practicing
at Coatesville (Pa.) Hospital and at the
Community Memorial Hospital in Jen-
nersville, Pa. Just recently he tried real
estate business by remodeling an old
Quaker Meeting House into medical of-
fices for four doctors. Charlie and_ his
wife have six children—three sons, ages
16, 15, 12, who he hopes will all come
to W&L, and three daughters, ages 12,
8, and 7, who he hopes will attend Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman’s College.

PHILIP P, PAGE, JR., writes that the engi-
neering consultant firm with which he is
associated in New York, Goldreich, Page,

35)

and Thropp, is completing its first year in
operation.

1946

FredERICK C. SAGE has attained the rank
of Member in the American College of
Hospital Administrators as of September
16, 1962. ‘The advancement in this pro-
fessional society for hospital administra-
tors is based on position and oral and
written examinations, as well as recom-
mendations.

1947

HARRISON KINNEY, the author of “Has
Anyone Seen My Father,’ is at work on
the biography of James ‘Thurber, which
he is doing for McGraw-Hill Publishers.
Harrison also continues with the Public
Affairs Department of International Busi-
ness Machines Corporation.

After several years with Eastman Kodak
Company, CHARLES HARWoop SHOOK has
resigned to join Ford Motor Company in
the Finance Department. Charles and his
wile, Betty Ann, and their two children,
Charles, Jr., age twelve, and Eliot, age
seven, have moved to Birmingham, Mich-
igan. In official nomenclature Charles is
in the Personnel Planning and Adminis-
tration Department of the Finance Staff
at Ford.

Dr. WitttAM H. Pirer is practicing oto-
laryngology in Winchester, Virginia. He
is also serving his third year as instructor
of otolaryngology at the University of
Virginia Medical School. He and his wife,
the former Dorothy ‘Trout, have three
sons.

1948

WILSON B. ARMISTEAD iS associate person-
nel director for the city of Nashville,
‘Tennessee.

EDGAR HOLLADAY is Kentucky area sales
representative for Homasote Company, a
manufacturer of insulation building board
in ‘Trenton, New Jersey.

FrepericK B. M. HoLttypAy is editing a
manuscript of the late Professor E. Mal-
colm Carroll entitled “The Western
Powers and Soviet Russia, 1917-1921,”
which is expected to be published in
1963. Fred is to go on sabbatical leave
from February to September of 1963, from
Duke University, when he will do work
in England and Germany on “The Reign
of the Emperor Frederick III of Ger-
many.”

1949

MARRIED: EMMETT STEWART EPLEY was
married to Nancy Rausch Lounsbury on
December 8 in New York City. Stewart is
an executive with the Small Business In-
vestment Company of New York.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. C. H. LAuck, Jr.,
a son, Charles Edward, on January 29,
1963, in Williamsburg, Virginia.

36

 

Horace L. SMITH

Effective January 1, 1963, Horace L. SMITH
became the manager of Mid-Atlantic sales
of the Pulp and Paperboard Division of
Weyerhaeuser Company. Previously he
had been pulp sales district representative
in the east with offices in New York City.
A native of Richmond, Horace was a
sales executive with Standard Paper Man-
ufacturing Company in Richmond before
joining Weyerhaeuser.

JouN S. R. SCHOENFELD is completing his
eleventh year with the New York invest-
ment firm of Ferris & Company. He is
presently a partner of this stock exchange
firm specializing in investment banking
business. John and his wife, Florence, live
in Washington, D.C., with their three
children—John, Jr. (7) Dick (414), and
Mary (214). With a group of personal
friends, John has obtained a charter to
establish a national bank in one of Wash-
ington’s suburbs, ‘They expect to open the
bank’s doors for business on March 1st.
Not content with this busy life, John has
also joined another group in a venture to
start their third apartment house in
Richmond. When completed, it will be the
second tallest building in Richmond.

EDWARD M. ‘THOMPSON is now associated
with the Irby Jones real estate agency
and development company at Montgomery,
Alabama. He was formerly a partner and
vice-president of a wholesale grocery firm.
He will assist the Jones firm in its wide
operations, which include real estate, home
building, property development, and gen-
eral insurance.

FRANK D. HArrison and family, formerly
of Little Rock, Arkansas, have moved to
Houston, ‘Texas. Don has been promoted
to the position of Casualty Manager of the
Houston Branch of Fireman’s Fund In-
surance Company. ‘The Harrisons have
two sons, age seven and five.

KENNETH K. LINDELL is employed by the
H. & D. Folsom Arms Company as a
salesman of guns and fishing tackle. Ken
is married to the former Maureen Ma-
guire. ‘They live with their three children
in Blue Point, Long Island.

In 1953 RicHARD M. YANKEE joined the
Cumberland Case Company and served as
sales manager until recently when he was
promoted to the position of vice-president-
sale of the company. Cumberland Case is a
leading manufacturer of delivery cases for
the milk industry. Dick and his wife, the
former Susan ‘Tucker of Corpus Christi,
live on Signal Mountain in Chattanooga,
Tennessee, with their two children.

1950

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. Roperr S. MENDEL-
SOHN, a son, Thomas Andrew Mendelsohn,
on June 4, 1962. The family now has
three boys and one girl. Bob is practic-
ing internal medicine in St. Louis, Mis-
souri.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR M. ROBERTS,
a daughter, Martha, on October 30, 1962.
Art is vice-president of Goodfellow Ash-
more, Inc., an insurance agency in Dan-
bury, Connecticut.

LAWRENCE V. WHEATER and his wife are
living in Pascoag, Rhode Island, where he
is in his sixth year of high school teach-
ing. ‘The Wheaters have two daughters,
Kathleen who is five and a half years old
and Jane who is two years old.

Rocrer H. Mupp is CBS Capitol Hill Cor-
respondent for the 88th Congress. ‘The
Mudds have three children, two boys and
a girl.

JAmMes ‘T. ‘TRUNDLE was elected president
of the United Air Lines Philadelphia
Management Club for 1963.

RoBeERT C. MApDpOX is assistant counsel for
the legal division of ‘The Prudential Life
Insurance Company of America. His
office is in Newark, New Jersey.

A former pastor in Paris, Kentucky,
Fred ‘T. Morrattr, JRr., begins his duties
with the First Baptist Church in Shelby-
ville, Kentucky. His new church has some
1,500 members. Fred received his master’s
degree in history from the University of
Kentucky in 1958. In addition to his pas-
toral duties he has taught two classes
in American History at Georgetown Col-
lege, Georgetown, Kentucky.

GERARD A. BURCHELL, JR., is the purchas-
ing agent for Sid Harvey, Inc., of Valley
Stream, L. I. ‘The firm manufactures all
types of heating controls. He and_ his
wife have one son, ‘Timothy, and two
daughters, Janie and Judy.

The first of this year WILLIAM H. Hocre-
LAND, JR., became a member of the law
firm of Webster, Sheffield, Fleischmann,
Hitchcock & Chrystie in New York City.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Last July Francis ALDEN Murray, JR., re-
turned to the family business of real es-
tate in Washington, D.C., as commercial
sales and leasing representative for H. G.
Smithey Company.

PAUL B. Root, JR., is in the investment
banking business in Erie, Pennsylvania.
Paul and Mrs. Root have three children,
two boys and a girl

After being in Franklin, Virginia, for
several years, FRANKLIN S. PEASE, Jr., has
been transferred to the New York sales
office of Union Bag Camp Paper Corpor-
ation. He was married in August, 1961, to
the former Jeanette Uzzell of Asheville,
North Carolina.

JAMeEs 'T. HEprIck is a partner in the law
firm of Newsom, Graham, Strayhorn &
Hedrick in Durham, North Carolina,
where he and his wife, the former Pansy
Barker, make their home.

For a time Horace F, SUTHERLAND was
Judge of the Civil and Police Justice
Court for the city of Galax, Virginia,
having been appointed as the first such
judge when Galax became a second class
city. He resigned this position, however,
to enter the private practice of law in
Galax. Horace and his wife have three
children—Julia, six years old. Horace, Jr.,
who is four, and William H., who is two.

Ford STEPHENS has resigned from the
Brand, Stephens and Wreden Advertising
Agency of Salem, Virginia, to become
marketing director of Woodard Research
Corporation of Herndon, Virginia.

1951

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAcK GREER, a
daughter, Sara McCready, on July 27, 1962.
The Greers have three children and live
in Norfolk, Virginia.

Having completed residency at the Uni-
versity of Virginia Hospital in July, 1962,
Dr. ‘THoMAs A. WaAsH has entered _pri-
vate practice of obstetrics and gynecology
in Newport News, Virginia. ‘Tom and his
wife have g3 sons, ages 7. 5, and 2 years.

The current issue of “Who’s Who in the
West” lists RicHARD TAyLor. Dick is sec-
retary-treasurer of the Hacienda, a hotel
and casino in Las Vegas, Nevada.

Beaumont, Texas, has a new pediatrician,
WILLIAM P. Ropert, JR. Dr. Robert has
recently started practice there. He and
Mrs. Robert have 3 children.

In July, 1963, Dr. ALLEN L. KAPLAN will
begin at Baylor University School of
Medicine as assistant professor in  ob-
stetrics and gynecology.

In Owensboro, Kentucky, W. Gordon ILER
continues two enterprises. He not only
practices law but operates a flourishing
painting business.

WINTER, 1963

 

JAck E. KANNAPELL, JR.

The advertising firm, Erwin Wasey,
Ruthrauff & Ryan, of Chicago that
handles the Brown-Formau Distillers ac-
count, has announced the promotion of
Jack E. KANNAPELL, JR., as its new vice
president. Jack, who joined EWR&R in
1958 is Account Executive for Old Forester.
A native of Louisville, Kentucky, he now
resides in Chicago where he is a member
of the Lake Shore Club.

JAMES V. PATTON, IV, is a stock broker
in Dalton, Georgia, the carpet center
of the world. Jim and his wife, Ann, have
three children, ages ten, seven, and three.

The Seventh District of Virginia elected
JOHN O. MarsH, Jr., as Congressman
over his Republican opponent. Mr. Marsh
is a well-known Strasburg, Virginia, at-
torney, who won the Democratic nom-
ination in a five-way primary.

FREDERICK J. AHERN, president and di-
rector of Unicorp of Canada, Ltd., an in-
vestment company in Montreal, has just
been elected a director of Canadian In-
ternational Power Company, Ltd.

Lrsti—E L. MAson, JR., has been appoint-
ed to the Powhatan, Virginia, School
Board to serve until June, 1946, when he
will be eligible for reappointment. Since
1957 he has been substitute judge of coun-
ty and juvenile domestic relations courts
for Powhatan and Amelia counties.

1952

MARRIED: FRANK H. CALLAHAM, JR., and
Marie Esther Eckstein were married on
November 10, 1962. The couple will live
in Lynchburg, Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. EpwArpD G. Gar-
DINER, a son, Edward ‘Thomas, born on
September 16, 1962, in Rosemont, Penn-
sylvania.

PHitip ROBBINS is now assistant city edi-
tor of the Washington (D.C.) Star,

As of February 1, 1963, Jorn B. Cooper
formed a law partnership with his broth-
er, Charles Cooper, for a practice special-
izing in matters of taxation and corpor-
ation law in Norfolk, Virginia.

JuLIAN B. Monr has been elected ex-
ecutive vice-president of the chemical con-
cern, Momar (Canada) Ltd. ‘Vhis Canadian
corporation is an extension of the U.S.
Company, Momar, Inc. He is busy in
Ontario about two months each year.
Recently Julian established the Momar
Export, Inc., a liaison company, and ex-
pects to establish overseas chemical man-
ufacturing and sales corporations — in
South and Central America.

RoBert F. CONNALLY, formerly executive
oiicer’ in the “Navy: (LST 1163) USS.
Waldo County, has recently been pro-
moted to Lieutenant Commander, U.S.N.
He is now in the Western Hemisphere
Branch of the Strategic Plans Division of
the Chief of Naval Operations with of-
fices in Washington, D.C. The Connallys
have two sons.

EDWARD MATZ, JR., is vice-president of the
Kurly Kate Corporation, Chicago, manu-
facturers of wire products. He and_ his
wife and two daughters live in Highland
Park, Illinois.

Dr. T. KYLE GRESON, JR., is in the pri-
vate practice of internal medicine in
Memphis, ‘Tennessee. He and his wife,
Jayne, have two sons, 214 years old and
four months old.

In November FRAZER REAMS, JR., Was
elected to the Ohio State Senate for a
two-year term of the 105th General As-
sembly.

1953

Harry J. GLAsscock is presently employed
as a draftsman for an architectural firm
in San Francisco.

C. R. ADAmMs, Jr., finished graduate train-
ing in oral surgery in Texas and in 1962
entered association with his father in the
practice of oral surgery in Charleston,
West Virginia.

After a long tenure in government serv-
ice, JAROSLAV A. DRABEK is starting a new
job in the legal department of H. K.
Porter Company in Pittsburgh, Pennsyl-
vania.

GEORGE F. MAYNARD, a former associate,
has just been named a member of the law
firm of Cabaniss and Johnston in Birm-
ingham, Alabama.

Joun A. WILuiAMson, II, is loan manager
of the Pacific Plan in California, a Home
Mortgage and Investment Company. He
is in charge of the firm’s 21 offices in the
state of California.

WILLIAM E. Brock, III, became, in No-

37

vember, the first Republican elected to
Congress from the grd District of Ten-
hessee in 42 years. Bill centered his late
summer and fall campaign on conserva-
tism, calling for a reduction in federal
spending and deficits, for an elimination
of federal controls over segments of busi-
ness, and for a restoration of freedom to
the farmer. In an editorial analysis of
Bill's victory the Chattanoga Times
states: “The reasons obviously start with
a new and attractive personality who
was in dead earnest and ran a_ tremen-
dous campaign. With heavy financing but
also with volunteer enthusiasm which was
a vital ingredient, he overcame early
odds and maintained a long, red-hot
pace.”

1954

MARRIED: PAut M. MASsLANsky and
Ninki Mallet of Port Elizabeth, South
Africa, were married in London on No-
vember 8, 1962. For the past two years
Paul has been working for Columbia Pic-
tures in Europe as production supervisor
on films produced in Italy, Spain, and
Ireland. He is now in Yugoslavia working
on “The Long Ships.”

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GreorcGE GREER, a
son, William Hadaway, on April 2, 1962,
in Owensboro, Kentucky.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN H. SNow,
a son, Stephen H., Jr., on July 5, 1962.
‘The future General and his parents live
in Springfield, Pennsylvania.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RENO S. Harp, III,
a son, Reno S. Harp, IV, on August 21,
1962, in Richmond, Virginia. Reno is an
assistant to the Attorney General of the
Commonwealth of Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs R. TrimM, a
daughter, Victoria Marie Trimm, Novem-
ber 24, 1962. She joined the family and
one older brother, Michael, at their home
in Rockville, Maryland. Jim is assistant
County Attorney for Montgomery County.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. RALPH S. PARK, JR., a
daughter, Kathryn Ann Park, on June 16,
1962. The proud father expects to be re-
leased from the U.S. Navy in August, 1963.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE MARSHALL
YOUNG, a son, Marshall Ralph, on De-
cember 17, 1962, in Brookhaven, Missis-
sippl.

One of the youngest trust officers in the
State of Virginia and the present trust
officer of the Lynchburg National Bank
and Trust Company, WARREN ‘T. BRAHAM
was recently named winner of the Dis-
tinguished Service Award by the Lynch-
burg Junior Chamber of Commerce. War-
ren has contributed much to the com-
munity through unselfish work and leader-
ship in worthwhile community. efforts.
He served as team captain in the United
Fund Drive; as a member of the Mayor’s
Committee; he is past president of the
Lynchburg Jaycees and is presently vice-

38

president of the Virginia State Junior
Chamber. ‘The presentation of the award
was made by Elliott S. Schewel, ’45, who
was chairman of the judging committee.
Warren is married to the former Anne
Bridges and the couple have one child.

H. Gordan Leccerr, Jr., has been named
manager of the downtown Lynchburg
Leggett’s Department Store. Gordon,
who was elected a director of the Leg-
gett Stores in 1961, has since January,
1962, served in the training position of
the controller’s office of the Accounting
Center for twenty-five Leggett Stores in
the Lynchburg area. He has held numer-
cus positions with Leggett’s since 1956
and during this time has been active in
church and civic affairs in Lynchburg.

JAMEs C. CONNER is practicing interna-
tional law with the firm of Stassen, Kep-
hart, Sarkin and Scullen in Philadelphia.
He and his wife have obtained a house
in the center of Philadelphia and are
busy restoring it.

DIRKEN VOFLKER iS married and is practic-
ing law in Columbus, Ohio. He and _ his
wife have two children.

CEcIL EpMonps has been promoted from
copy editor to vice-president and general
manager of the advertising firm of Brand,
Stephens and Wreden, and the name of
the firm has been changed to Brand,
Fdmonds, and Wreden. Cecil replaces
FoRD STEPHENS, ’50, who resigned to be-
come marketing director of Woodward
Research Corporation, Herndon, Virgina.
He lives in Salem, Virginia, where the
firm is located.

1955

BORN: Mr, and Mrs. WALTER JOHN Mc-
GRAw, a son, Walter John, Jr., on Oc-
tober 15, 1962. Walter, Sr., is connected
with the law firm of Hunton, Williams,
Gay, Moore & Powell in Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

DoucLtas D. Monroe has recently been
elected assistant vice-president of Wa-
chovia Bank and Trust Company in Wins-
ton-Salem, North Carolina. Doug is mar-
ried to the former Katherine Willis of
Baltimore and they have four children.

Recalled for reserve duty, Forney R.
DAUGETTE, JR., was stationed at Ft. Eustis,
Virginia. After release in January, 10962,
he returned to Gadsden, Alabama, where
he is treasurer of the Life Insurance
Company of Alabama. Forney is president
of the local Exchange Club. He and _ his
wife have three children.

After serving three years with the State
Department, WILLIAM HENRY BartscH be-
came stationed as vice-consul in Kuwait.
Bill traveled extensively all through mid-
dle and east Europe for a year. In June,
1962, he became connected with the Amer-
ican University in Washington in the
Special Operations Research Office on
contract with the Defense Department.

Recently Bill found he would move again.
This time he begins a new career with
the Agency for International Development
and will be Assistant Program Officer in
the American Embassy in Kingston, Ja-
maica.

A former All-Southern Conference center
and linebacker at Washington and Lee,
JAMes B. Comps once planned to become
a lawyer and wound up a top-notch foot-
ball coach. A shattered ankle in a Wash-
ington Redskin pre-season game ended a
professional career. Jim considered turn-
ing to law or industry to support his
family. Persuaded by his wife, he turned
again to football and in 1955 stopped in
at Woodberry High School in New Jersey.
He became a teacher and in 1956 took
over as head coach. Jim’s Woodberry
teams have won 60, lost 20 and tied two.
In the last four years he won the Colon-
ial Conference title three times.

Assuming the responsibility for customer
billings for the entire company, Lowrrt
Dow Hamric has just been appointed
division accounting manager for revenues
for the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone
Company of Richmond. Lowell has been
a member of the comptroller’s staff of the
American Telephone & Telegraph Com-
pany in New York.

Last October JoHN M. Faison accepted a
position as trust officer with the First
National Bank in Ft. Myers, Florida. He
has enjoyed seeing BoB SHEFFER, ’55, who
is vice-president and trust officer of the
Manatee National Bank in Bradenton,
llorida.

J. Scorr Laurent has been transferred
by the California Oil Company to La-
fayette, Louisiana, to work as a produc-
tion geologist.

Davip M. BrriINGHOF was transferred in
1961 from Natchez, Mississippi, to Sacra-
mento, California, with Cargill, Inc. The
company is one of the largest grain com-
cerns in the world. Dave is presently mer-
chandising grain and related commodities
for domestic use as well as for export. He
is married to the former Cynthis Terrill
of Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

1956

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. SAMUEL A. SYME,
JR., a son, John Stennis, born on Jan-
uary 16, 1963.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. J. MArvIN More-
LAND, a son, John Marvin, HI, on June 26,
1962. Marvin is associated with the invest
ment banking firm of McClung and Knick-
erbocker, Inc., and specializes in munici-
pal bonds. ‘The Morelands live in Hous-
ton.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. FRANK PITTMAN, a
son, Frank Smith Pittman, IV, on October
6, 1962. Young Frank joins an older sister
and the family live in Atlanta. Frank III is
presently Chief Resident in Psychiatry at

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

Emory University where he expects to
to be for the next 18 months before en-
tering the Navy.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RicuArp M. Jouns-
TON, a daughter, Nancy Merrill Johnston,
on October 23, 1962. ‘The Johnstons live
in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

James W. Marvin, JR. has recently be-
come associated with the Fidelity Mutual
Life Insurance Co. of Philadelphia.

R. Gordon Goocn is practicing law in
Houston, ‘Texas, with the firm of Baker,
Botts, Shepherd and Coates.

DupLiy D. FLANDERS is in the practice of
law with his father in New Orleans,
Louisiana. He and his wife have two
daughters.

ArTHUR W. McCatn, JR., moved to Sche-
nectady, New York, in late January where
he will be auditor for the General Electric
Company.

Since release from Marine Corps duty,
CARLos ‘T. BaiLey is working as an As-
sociate Research Engineer on the Saturn
Space Vehicle for Boeing Aircraft Com-
pany. He lives in Huntsville, Alabama.

The Saturday Evening Post carried an
article in its December issue by TREvV
ARMBRISTER regarding the probable cause
of the crash of an American Airline’s jet
into Jamaica Bay last March. ‘Trev is
on the editorial staff of the Post.

CHARLES C. WATSON is an instructor of
history at the Hill School in Pottstown,
Pennsylvania.

I. HARRISON STONE is now associated in
the general practice of law with the firm
of Proctor, Royston and Mueller in Tow-
son, Maryland.

1957

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM L. KAurrF-
MAN, a daughter, Heather Elizabeth, on
September 28, 1962. Bill is sales repre-
sentative for James Lees & Sons Company
in Springfield, Massachusetts, and Hart-
ford, Connecticut, area.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. SAM BENDHEIM, III,
a son, Stephen Howard Bendheim, on
October 15, 1962. The family lives in
Richmond, Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. LorEN ALEXANDER
MINTZ, a son, Steve Jeffrey, on December
1, 1962.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. RUSSELL,
JR., a daughter, Margaret, on June 16,
1962. Margaret joins two other sisters.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JoHN Sims More-
MEN, a son, John Riley, II, on October gx,
1962, in Owensboro, Kentucky. The More-
mens have two daughters, Lindsay and
Holly, and live in Owensboro where John
is associated with a law firm.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMes Harrison

WINTER, 1963

Davis, a daughter, Debra Ann, on July
9, 1962. ‘The Davises live in Hattiesburg,
Mississippi.

LAWRENCE B. CLARK is area engineer for
E. I. duPont deNemours and Company
in Seaford, Delaware.

CHARLES MASON SWEZEY is a special stu-
dent at Washington and Lee this year and
is also Presbyterian Minister to W&L
students and VMI cadets.

WILLIAM H. “BILL” ABELOFF, a Richmond
attorney, has recently been elected Presi-
ident of Big Brothers, Inc. The organiza-
tion had its first annual meeting on Janu-
ary 8th at the Commonwealth Club in
Richmond. The club is composed of dedi-
cated men of good character who are
willing to give their time to help a boy
on the basis of friendship and male guid-
ance,

Dr. RicHarp B. RAINES graduated in De-
cember from the University of Tennessee
College of Medicine and is currently in-
terning at the City of Memphis Hospital
in Memphis, ‘Tennessee.

H. Preston PATE is assistant cashier in
the First National Bank of Joplin, Mis-
souri. He was married in September, 1959,
to the former Jeanne Ann McPherson.

OLIVER C. CONGER, JR., is vice-president
of Evans, Conger Company and director
of Pottsdown Pipe Products, Inc.

CHARLES B. RICHARDSON is a Navy flight
instructor at Whiting Field near Pensa-
cola, Florida. His specialty is formation
flying.

Having joined Grand Union in June,
1962, ROBERT K. HaALrer has now been
named Assistant Manager and Operations
Manager of the Grand Union Company’s
newest and largest Grand-Way Discount
Center in West Haven, Connecticut.

KARL M. FUNKHOUSER received the “Best
in Show” award at the Eastern Federation
of Mineralogical and Lapidary Societies
convention in Durham, North Carolina.
The specimens which he submitted were
from a collection of minerals from Center-
ville, Virginia.

Joun E. McDONALD, Jr., graduated from
the Law School of the University of Vir-
ginia this past June and has since taken
a position as an attorney with the office
of the Regional Counsel of the Internal
Revenue Service in Dallas, Texas.

1958

MARRIED: THOMAS BROUGHTON BRANCH,
Jr., and Gertrude Schrotter were married
on December 27, 1962, in Atlanta, Georgia.
Tom is class agent this year. He is in the
law firm of Smith, Kilpatrick, Cody, Rog-
ers & McClatchey.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Joun L. LANCAsTER,
a son, John L., IV, on June 5, 1962. John,

IIIf, is practicing law in Dallas. The
Lancasters also have a daughter two-and-
a-half years old.

KINGSLEY Woop is now a reporter for The
Arizona Daily Star, ‘Tucson’s morning
newspaper. The Star recently won the
award for general excellence as best news-
paper in the State of Arizona for 1962.

After three years of active duty with the
U.S Marine Corps at Camp Pendleton,
California, Bop L. NEUNREITER is present-
ly a stock broker for Dean Witter and
Company at their headquarters in Los
Angeles.

WILLIAM M. FRANCE is assistant vice-pres-
ident of the investment department of the
Society National Bank in Cleveland, Ohio.
He and his wife have a son, Bill, Jr., and
a daughter, Connie.

Previously having been in residential con-
ventional loans, ‘THoMAs F. Kine, Jr., has
recently been transferred to the commer-
cial loan department of Charter Mortgage
Company in Jacksonville, Florida. This
past June Tom attended the Mortgage
Bankers Association school at the Chicago
campus of Northwestern University. He
expects to attend the American Institute
of Real Estate Appraisers School this com-
ing March at the University of Georgia.

JosepH L. LYLE, jr., a Lynchburg attorney,
has been named a partner in the law firm
of Hickson, Davies, and Lyle. Joe and his
wife have two children.

WILLIAM A. ROBERTS is cashier of the First
National Bank in Eufaula, Alabama. Bill
is also co-owner of the local bowling lanes.
He was married in June, 1961, to the
former Gatra Holleman Lampley, and
the couple now have one daughter.

The Lexington (Va.) ‘Town Council ap-
pointed WititrAm O. Roperts, Jr., the
town attorney to succeed Charles S. Glas-
gow, ‘09, who died on December 20, 1962.
Bill has practiced law in Lexington since
1958. He is currently president of the
Rockbridge-Buena Vista Bar Association
and holds the offices of president of the
Lexington Kiwanis Club and president of
the Rockbridge County unit of the Amer-
ican Cancer Society. He is a_past-presi-
dent of the Rockbridge Council of PTA’s
and is active in scout and church work.

1959

MARRIED: RicHArd F. CUMMINS and
Mary Gilbert Armistead were married
October 6, 1962. Richard was discharged
from the Army in April with the rank of
first lieutenant after thirty months of serv-
ice. He is employed by the Commerce
Union Bank in Nashville, ‘Tennessee, and
is in their executive training program.

MARRIED: Rosert B. Levy and Miriam
E. Holland were married on June gg,
1962. Mrs. Holland is a graduate nurse

39

from the University of Maryland. Bob is
branch manager of the Union ‘Trust Com-
pany of Maryland in Baltimore.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs, C. R. SPENCER, Jr., a
son, Charles Robert, III, on August 15,
1962. Charles and his wife, the former Ann
Douglas Scott, live in Richmond where
Charles is associated with the Reynolds
Metals Company.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Davin B. Root, a
son, Scott Allen, on April 16, 1962. The
Roots now have two sons.

Finishing as a lieutenant after three years
in the USMC, Jerry SKLAR began law
school at Vanderbilt University last Sep-
tember. As a part-time job he is manag-
ing an eleven-story apartment building.

LAURENCE M. SMAIL is presently a leu-
tenant and is chief legal officer for special
troops and the Headquarters Comman-
dant at the U.S. ‘Transportation Center in
Kort Eustis, Virginia.

JOHN G. KOEDEL, JR., is an analyst for the
commercial loan department of the Pitts-
burgh National Bank.

THoMAs P. Forrz, JR., is scheduled to
graduate in May from Wharton School of
Finance and Commerce, University of
Pennsylvania, with a master’s degree in
business administration. ‘Tom is married
to the former Susan Harrell of Jackson-
ville, Florida.

JOHN P. FREEMAN is employed as an assist-
ant editor of the Chemical Abstracts

40

 

Service at the Ohio State University in
Columbus, Ohio.

After six months in the Army Reserve as
a 2nd Lieutenant, Douc LAs I. SMINK, Jr.,
has embarked upon a teaching career. For
a year he participated in Duke University’s
“Cooperative Program in ‘Teacher Edu-
cation.” ‘The program included teaching
experience in Burlington, North Carolina,
school system. Presently Doug is teaching
at Worcester Academy in Massachusetts, a
private boys prep school, where he is an
English professor. Among his other duties
he is advisor to the school paper and
director of the school band.

GrorGE S. ‘TATMAN, JR., is business man-
ager of the Connersville (Indiana) News-
Examiner.

Murray M. WapbswortH recently graduat-
ed from the College of Law at the Univer-
sity of Florida and is now associated with
the firm of Akerman, Senterfitt, Edison,
Mesmer & Robbinson of Orlando, Florida.

‘THEODORE R. MCKELDIN, JR., is in his final
year of law school at the University of
Maryland. He expects to receive his law
degree in June, 1963.

Tom L. LARrtMorE is practicing law in
Fort Worth. He and his wife, Jane, have
two sons, and the family lives near Bob
and Ginny Collett (’59).

After a three-year tour of duty in the
Judge Advocate General’s Corps, ROBERT
L. KAuFMAN plans to return to the
practice of law in West Virginia.

Navy — “Skyraiders” fly
over the carrier, U.S. S.
Oriskany in the South
China Sea, piloted by
LTJG C. H. Smirxe Ill,
left inset and LTJG O.
B. POLLock, right inset,
both Class of 758.

Jor, Kocren joined the taxation depart:
ment of the Reynolds Metals Company
in Richmond, Virginia, in December.
This new position will require him to
maintain his status as a lawyer and to
acquire the status of a C.P.A.

1960

MARRIED: WILLIAM B. SAwerRs, JR., and
Kugenia B. Kemp of Buxton, Maryland,
and a graduate of Hollins College were
married on June g, 1962. Bill is now en-
gaged as the manager of the Metropolitan
Building Association and as an indepen-
dent insurance agent in Baltimore.

MARRIED: JosepH E. RINGLAND and Caro-
lyn Jannmark of Mamaroneck, New York,
were married on June 28, 1962. Jerry is
presently a third year medical student
at Cornell.

MARRIED: JOHN K. McMurray and Miss
Billa Harkness were married on Septem-
ber 22, 1962, in Atlanta, Georgia. ‘The
couple now live in Martinsburg, West Vir-
ginia, where John is engaged in raising
sheep and carrying on his work of sculp-
turing and painting.

MARRIED: MicHAreLt D. APPLEFELD and
Susan C. Hummel were married on June
11, 1962, in Baltimore, Maryland. ‘The
bride graduated in June, 1962, from the
University of Maryland.

MARRIED; After receiving his M.A. de-
gree in Personnel Psychology at Colum-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

bia, FREDERICK H. BELDEN, JR., was mar-
ried June 9, 1962, to Betty ‘Thomas Reed
of Charleston, West Virginia. The couple
live in White Plains, New York, where
Fred is employed by Allstate Insurance
Company in the Personnel Division.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RicHARD M. WRIGHT,
a daughter, Carrie, on August 12, 1962.
Dick is vice-president of The Journal
Newspapers, Inc. The family has just
moved into a new home in Alexandria,
Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THomas W. GIL-
LIAM, JR., a son, ‘Thomas West Gilliam,
III, in Indianapolis, Indiana, on Novem-
ber 29, 1962. Tom is now serving as an
instructor in_ statistics, Department of
Comptroller Training, U.S. Army Finance
School, Fort Ben Harrison, Indiana.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK JOHN
HERRMANN, JR., a son, Richard Edwin,
on November 11, 1962. Jack and his fam-
ily have moved from New York to Erie,
Pennsylvania, where he is with the per-
sonnel and labor relations division of
Van Products Company.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD WILLIAM
Cohen, a daughter, Laura Davidow, born
October 18, 1962, in Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania.

WALTER G. ‘THOMPSON is finishing his sec-
ond year in a Master’s program at Co-
lumbia University’s School of Interna-
tional Affairs.

Joun M. Kirk will enter the Navy Judge
Advocate General Corps in May of this
year.

After leaving Washington and_ Lee,
W. KENDALL Lipscomes, JR., attended Wil-
liam and Mary and _  Marshall-Wythe
School of Law. In June, 1962, he re-
ceived his Bachelor of Civil Laws degree.
Kendall is married to the former Cather-
ine Walker. At present he is law clerk for
the Supreme Court of Appeals of Vir-
ginia.

After a year of study in political science
at the University of Chicago towards a
master’s degree, JAmMEs Howe Brown, Jr.,
is now a first year student at the Univer-
sity of Virginia Law School. He has some
classes under Professor Charles McDowell
who is teaching part time at the Univer-
sity of Virginia this year.

Jon B. McLin who has been doing grad-
uate work at Oxford has just been award-
ed the International Nickel Company
Fellowship for study toward the Doctor
of Philosophy degree at the Johns Hop-
kins School of Advanced International
Studies. This award is one of the named
fellowship awards of the school and _ is
a most noteworthy honor.

CLIFTON D. MITCHELL is attached to the
navy vessel, U.S. Barton. He expects to be
transferred to the Philadelphia Naval
Shipyard in February, 1963.

WINTER, 1963

UG i a ee

JOHN WarD WILLIAMS is in his second year
of law school at the University of Hous-
ton. He and his wife, Page, live in Hous-
ton with their son, Russell, who was born
February 4, 1962.

PHILip BRUNNER ROBERTSON, having re-
ceived a National Defense Fellowship, is
working for a Ph.D. at the Marine
Science Laboratory at the University of
Miami in Florida.

While attending Tulane Law School for
his final year, JACK GRONER is holding
down a part-time job in the New Orleans
office of Blue Cross. He expects to re-
ceive his law degree in June of 1963.

JosEPH JuDSON SmiTH, III, finished first in
his ‘Transportation Officers Orientation
course and is now serving for two years
in the Transportation Corps at Fort Eus-
tis, Virginia. He is commanding officer of
the Marksmanship Training Unit.

After serving in the Army for two years,
fourteen months of which was in Korea,
First Lt. Perer Lre has returned to the
States and has been released from the
Army. Upon his arrival in San Francisco,
a “welcome home party’ was planned by
a group of Pensacola associates on the
West Coast. Peter is living in Pensacola,
but he is thinking of attending law
school this next year.

Soon after release from military service,
JOHN M. BrAprorpD joined Plantation Pat-
terns, Inc., a wrought iron furniture man-
ufacturing concern in Birmingham. After
a period in the production control de-
partment, John expects to enter the sales
department.

1961

MARRIED: Ropert J. FUNKHOUSER, JR.,
and Barbara Anne Klein were married on
July 14, 1962, in Lynchburg, Virginia. Bob
is a teacher and coach at The Collegiate
Schools in Richmond, Virginia.

MARRIED: FEvDWIN MICHAEL MASINTER
and Carol Ellen Goodman were married
on the 23rd of December in Hartford,
Connecticut. Mike is with the law firm of
Hansell, Post, Brandon & Dorsey of At-
lanta, Georgia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JON C. PETERSON, a
son, Jon Christian, Jr., on November 25,
1962, at Virginia Beach, Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Courtney R.
Mauzy, a daughter, Elizabeth Raine, on
December 23, 1962. Courtney is attending
graduate school at the University of Vir-
ginia and in November he was elected to
Omicron Delta Kappa.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Emit J. SULZBERGER,
a daughter, Jennifer Lee, on August 28,
1962. The Sulzbergers live in Hampton,
Virginia, and he is in the practice of law
with the firm of Murray, Ford, West and
Wilkerson in Newport News.

Lr. FLEMING KEEFE received his commis-
sion in the Army last March and arrived
in Korea in August after attending the
airborne school at Ft. Benning, Georgia.
His duty in Korea is that of Assistant
Group Adjutant for his division. Flem-
ing is scheduled to leave Korea this next
August.

‘THOMAS H. ALEXANDER is employed by the
Standard Oil Company of California and
is presently in their marketing sales
trainee program. He lives in San Fran-
CiSCO.

The class agent for the law class of 1961,
and a Lynchburg attorney, Paun H.
CoFFEY, JR., has been named a_ partner
in the law firm of Edmunds, Baldwin and
Graves. He has been an associate member
of the firm since July, 1961. Paul, the Phi
Delta Phi 1961 Graduate of the Year, is
married to the former Nell Davenport
Lewis.

GEORGE PALMER PARDINGTON, III, is assis-
tant officer-in-charge, Garden City Field
Office, of the 108th Intelligence Corps
Group in Garden City, New York.

RALEIGH R. ARCHER is a sophomore medi-
cal student at the University of Kentucky.

1962

MARRIED: LAwRENCE Davin CALLAWAY,
III, and Sarah Louise Miller were mar-
ried on November 10, 1962, in Johnson
City, ‘Tennessee. Upon completion of a
two-year tour of duty in Germany, the
couple will reside in New York where
Dave will be associated with First
National City Bank.

MARRIED: RicHarp 'T, Mossy and Miss
Margaret Kyle Mundy were married Sat-
urday, December 8, 1962, in St. John’s
Episcopal Church in Lynchburg, Va.
Among the groomsmen were LEyYBURN
Mossy, ’62, RoBIN Woop, ’62, BILL GILEs,
Jk., ‘61 and Bossy FuNkuouser, ’61 The
bride is a graduate of Sweet Briar Col-
lege. The couple is living in Lynchburg.

Puitiep F. MACON is a freshman medical
student at the Medical College of Georgia
and is serving as a representative on their
Honor Court.

Ropert A. DuntAp has completed the
Naval Officer Candidate School at New-
port, Rhode Island, and is now stationed
at Charleston, South Carolina, on a mine
sweeper.

LT. FREDERICK R. NELSON, ALLEN B. PAINT-
ER, Lr. CHARLES R. BUTLER, JR., and Lr.
JoHN A. MartTIN have completed the
eight-week field artillery officer orienta-
tion course at the Artillery and Missile
Center, Fort Sill, Oklahoma.

At present Lesnie H. PrArp, III, is on a
six-month tour of duty with the USS.
Coast Guard at Alameda, California, This

41

spring he plans to begin a credit man-
agement training program with United
California Bank in San Francisco and
will attend the Graduate Business School
at Stanford University in the fall where
he will specialize in finance.

Lr. DANreL F. Currwoop received instruc-
tion in the duties of a newly-commissioned
officer in field artillery during an orien-
tation course at The Artillery and Missile
Center at Fort Sill, Oklahoma.

Lr. Jerrery D. LAsHER recently completed
the eight-week officer orientation course
at The Chemical School, Fort McClellan,
Alabama.

After completing Infantry School at Ft.
Benning JoHN W. Boy Le, Jr., reported to
Ft. Chaffee, Arkansas. John will complete
his service in November, 1964, when he
expects to return to the Merchants Na-
tional Bank in the loan department.

1963

MARRIED: FEvwarpd BRENT WELLS, IT, and
Elizabeth Hillen Jenkins were married
on July 28, 1962, in Washington, D.C. In
the wedding party were F. WILLIAM
BuRKE, ‘63; WALTER CRATER, ’61; and Top
OweEN, 60. Ed now works with the Robert
Uhar Paper Company.

 

1903

Dr. DAvip VANCE GUTHRIE, a former pro-
fessor of physics and astronomy, died at
his home in Ft. Defiance, Virginia, on
December 4, 1962. Dr. Guthrie, who was
listed in Who’s Who in America, had
taught at the University of Virginia, at
Louisiana State University where he was
a founder and director of the university’s
observatory, at Emory and Henry, and at
Catawba College. He had published num-
erous articles in scientific journals on the
electro-magnetic theory of light and on
spectroscopy.

1906

JoHN EDWARD QUISENBERRY died in Wash-
ington, D.C., May 14, 1962. Mr. Quisen-
berry and his wife, the former Kate Belle
Barky, were both former natives of Lex-
ington, Virginia. Mr. Quisenberry had
been an engineer for the Clinchfield Coal
Co., the ‘Tennessee Coal and Iron Co.,
and the Santa Fe Railroad. In his later
years he had been an engineer with the
Government for the Reconstruction Fi-
nance Corp.

42

1908

GEORGE GUNBY, an attorney of Monroe,
Louisiana, died after a short illness on
November 27, 1962. Mr. Gunby had form-
erly been associated in the law office of
his father, the late Judge Andrew Gunby,
and was admitted to the Louisiana State
Bar in 1916. He was a life-long resident
of Monroe.

1909

CHARLES SPEARS GLAsGow, dean of Lexing-
ton (Va.) bar members, died in Lexington
on December 20, 1962. For three years af-
ter his graduation from law school, he
practiced law with his brother in Char-
lotte, North Carolina. At the conclusion
of two years of service in France in World
War I, Mr. Glasgow returned to Lexing-
ton and continued his practice of law
there until his death. His position of town
attorney, which he held from 1933 until
his death, made him a very active par-
ticipant in town government and he was
also a member of the school board of the
town. Mr. Glasgow was a great lover of
all sports, and in college he was stroke
on the Harry Lee boat crew. He was a
former vestryman of the Episcopal church,
a member of the American Bar Associa-
tion, the Virginia Bar Association, and a
past-president of the Lexington-Buena
Vista Bar. ‘Throughout the years Mr. Glas-
gow maintained a keen interest in alum-
ni affairs, serving at one time on the
Alumni Athletic Committee and also as
chairman of the Scholarship Advisory
Committee of the Alumni Association.

1910

Mites CARY JOHNSTON, a member of Car-
neal & Johnston, a Richmond firm of
architects and engineers, died on Janu-
ary 2, 1963, in a Richmond hospital. He
served in France in World War I and since
then had been associated with the Rich-
mond firm as a civil engineer.

EDWARD ‘TREMONT Burr died at his home
in Raleigh, North Carolina, on October
17, 1962. Mr. Burr was vice-president and
actuary of the Durham Life Insurance
Company of Raleigh.

19T]

WILLIAM FORMAN CLARKE died during the
past year in Baltimore, Maryland.

1912

IsADORE FORMAN, merchant and long as-
sociated with B. Forman Sons of Roanoke,
Virginia, died in Roanoke on October
14, 1962.

1913

Harry E. Moran died on November 28,
1962, in Beckley, West Virginia. Mr.
Moran held extensive coal interests in the
East, but in 1940 moved to Beckley where
he was a prominent coal operator. He
headed the Leccony Smokeless Fuel Com-

 

 

pany as president, remaining at the same
time president of the Lake & Export Coal
Corporation of New York and_ holding
office in two coal companies in Maine. He
was twice elected president of the Board
of Stewards of a Beckley Methodist church
and was very active in Masonic affairs.
In Washington and Lee sports annals,
Mr. Moran was a baseball figure of leg-
endary fame. He played as pitcher for the
College teams of 1910-12, and in 1910 he
set a new record for that time by striking
out 28 men in a game against A. & M. of
North Carolina. After graduation he
played professional ball for three years
with Detroit and two years for Pittsburgh,
ending his career when he entered the
Navy in World War I. Throughout the
years he continued to show a most active
interest in alumni and_ athletic affairs
and in all the progress of the University.

1918

HARRY PALMER ANDERSON, a lease toreman
for the Ohio Oil Company, died on Oc-
tober 11, 1962 in his hometown of Bakers-
field, California.

1920

RUSSELL GOODWIN NeEsBITT, who at one
time was engaged in the general practice
of law in Wheeling, West Virginia, died
in Wheeling on August 7, 1962.

WILLIAM S. STEVENS, JR., died on October
23, 1962, in Ridgewood, New Jersey.

Creci. BARRETT BuRNs, of Greeneville, ‘Ten-
nessee, died after several years of illness
on December 23, 1962. Mr. Burns was
prominent in the tobacco business in the
State of Kentucky.

ELDON PauL Kinc died in Washington,
D.C., on November 12, 1962. In April
Mr. King had retired from the position
of Director of the International ‘Tax Re-
lations Division of the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service after forty-five years of
career service with the Federal Govern-
ment. He had participated in negotia-
tions of tax treaties with other countries
for the past twenty-five years and had
written for publication a number of ar-
ticles on various aspects of taxation.

1921

JAMEs Howze BryAn died in Birmingham,
Alabama, on November 4, 1962. Mr. Bry-
an was vice-president of the Birmingham
Federal Savings and Loan Association
and a widely known Presbyterian layman.
When in college ‘Gander,’ as he was
affectionately known, managed the great
1920 football team and was editor of The
Ring-tum Phi. In 1922 he served as ath
letic director in one of the Birmingham
high schools, but in 1924 he entered the
real estate field with his own business.
‘Then in 1943 he became property man-
ager and appraiser for Birmingham Fed-
eral. He was a member of the Birmingham

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

chapter of International Society of Resi-
dential Appraisers, which he had _ served
as president and director. For a number
of years Mr. Bryan was class agent for the
class of 1921, and at the fortieth reunion
of his class he was master of ceremonies
at the banquet. He maintained always a
vital interest in his alma mater and was
an active and influential member of the
Birmingham chapter of Washington and
Lee Alumni.

CHARLES HicBy SmiTH died on October 6,
1962, in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Mr.
Smith at one time was special assistant
to the U.S. Attorney General and trial
attorney in the U.S. Department of Jus-
tice in Washington, D.C. In 1953, how-
ever, he returned to the private practice
of law in Waverly, Ohio, where he re-
mained until his return to his home town
of Colorado Springs this year.

OscAR BROWNLEE SIMMONS, JR., Miami,
Florida, attorney and director of the Riv-
erside Bank, died on October 30, 1962.
Mr. Simmons was one of the organizers
of the bank. He was a member of the
Dade County, Florida, and American Bar
Associations.

1922

ByrRON C. BRowper, a resident of Chatta-
nooga for many years, died December 15,
1962. Mr. Browder retired after thirty
years as an engineer for Standard Oil
Company and moved to Arizona and there
established a second career in retirement.
He made a study of Spanish and became
so proficient that he conducted Spanish
classes. ‘The University of Arizona made
him an honorary faculty member.

1923

MAvrRICcE J. CROCKER, first and only legally
established law clerk of Kanawha County,
West Virginia, died in Charleston on No-
vember 12, 1962. Mr. Crocker was consid-
ered by the entire legal profession of
West Virginia as a brilliant lawyer, ob-
jective in his recommendations and un-
surpassed as a legal researcher.

FRED CLEVELAND HENRITZE, a lumber deal-
er and hardware salesman of Harlan,
Kentucky, died on November 26, 1962.

Henry T. Bock of Johnstown, Pennsyl-
vania, died on September 12, 1962.

1924

BAYNARD L. MALONE died June 20, 1962.
Mr. Malone, who had practiced law in
St. Petersburg, Florida, since 1933, had
been retired since 1957. He was a mem-
ber of the Florida Bar Association and
was serving on the liaison committee of
the American Bar Association at the time
of his death.

Dr. JOHN ‘TOWNSEND COLLINS, sixty-year
old optometrist of Lewisburg, West Vir-
ginia, died on January 9, 1963. After at-

WINTER, 1963

4

tending Washington and Lee, Dr. Col-
lins went to Northern I[llinois College
of Optometry. He had been a resident
of Lewisburg for nineteen years. He was
a member of the Old Stone Presbyterian
Church, Greenbrier Lodge No. 42, and
the American Academy of Optometry.

1926

Joun ‘TeLernus Lewis of Jacksonville,
‘Texas, died on October 5, 1962.

1929

JOHN DANDRIDGE STANARD died at Memori-
al Hospital in Chattanooga, Tenn., on
December 22nd. After working as edi-
tor of the New Orleans Times Picayune
during the political administration of
Huey P. Long, Mr. Stanard went to Chat-
tanooga in 1929 as literary editor of the
Chattanooga Times. He later became edi-
tor of Tennessee Food Field. Mr. Stan-
ard was one of the organizers of the Chat-
tanooga Junior Chamber of Commerce
and was active in Little Theatre produc-
tions.

1930

JouN WILLIAM GrIFFIS, owner of the Grif-
fis Hospital Clinic and practicing physic-
ian in Denton, North Carolina, died on
March 13, 1962. Dr. Griffis was a_ past-
president of the Davidson County (N.C.)
Medical Society, on the board of directors
of the Carolina Bank & Trust Company,
and a member of the Davidson County
Board of Education.

Joun BUFORD OLIVER, town attorney and
prominent resident of Bedford, Virginia,
died on November 6, 1962. Mr. Oliver had
been the town attorney since 1934 and
was active in state politics for many years.
At one time he was chairman of the 6th
District Democratic Committee and had
served as Bedford County’s delegate in
the General Assembly in 1934.

1942

Dr. Robert M, BOATWRIGHT, a practicing
bronchologist and _ otholaryngologist of
Philadelphia, died on November 4, 1962.
Seven weeks previous to his death, Dr.
Boatwright became suddenly ill while on
a visit to Danville, Virginia, and under
went emergency surgery. Post-operative
complications followed. He took his de-
gree in medicine from the University of
Pennsylvania and interned at Delaware
Hospital in Wilmington. After service in
the Army Medical Corps, he returned to
Philadelphia for graduate study and sub-
sequently established his practice there.
At the time of his death he was on the
staff of four Philadelphia hospitals.

1944

Guy PEACE CLARK of Clarksdale, Mis-
sissippi, died on June 5, 1962.

CHAPTER CORRESPONDENTS

Appalachian—R. P. London, Jr., ’27, P.O.
Box 831, Johnson City, Tennessee

Arkansas—H. Tyndall Dickinson, ’41, 6
Palisade Drive, Little Rock

Atlanta—Floyd W. McRae, Ja., °45, 2081
Dellwood Drive, N.W.

Augusta-Rockingham—J. B. Stombock, ’41,
Box 594, Waynesboro, Virginia

Baltimore—Richard C. Whiteford, °57, 905
Arran Road

Birmingham—John V. Coe, ’25, 3421
Hill Road, Birmingham 13

Charleston, West Virginia—Lee M. Kenna,
"40, 114 Ashby Avenue

Chattanooga—Gerry U. Stephens, ‘50, 2720
Haywood Avenue

Chicago—Selden W. Clark, ’55, 345 N.
Western Avenue, Chicago 12, Illinois

Charlotte—John Schuber, Jr., ’44, 1850
Sterling Road, Charlotte 9, N. C.

Cleveland—William M. France, ’58, 21075
Sydenham Road, Shaker Heights 22,
Ohio

Cumberland Valley—James L. Rimler, ’31,
N. Court St., Frederick, Maryland

Danville—C. Richmond Williamson, ’51,
P. O. Box 497

Florida West Coast—Charles P. Lykes, ’39,
P. O. Box 2879, Tampa, Florida

Houston—Robert I. Peeples, ’57, 2344 South
Boulevard

Jacksonville—Robert P. Smith, Jr., ’54,
1221 Florida Title Building

Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, °’49, 15 West
10th Street

Louisville—A. R. Boden, ’52, 3310 Nanz

Lynchburg—Robert B. Taylor, ’44, 3610
Manton Drive

Mid-South—Wm. R. Carrington Jones, ’54,
644 Commerce Title Building, Memphis,
Tennessee

New Orleans—John H. McMillan, ’42, 1333
Webster Street, New Orleans 18, La.

New York—Paul E. Sanders, ’48, 96 Ralph
Avenue, White Plains, New York

Norfolk—Earle A. Cadmus, ’26, 303 New
Kirn Building, Portsmouth, Virginia

North Texas—C. M. Patrick, Jr., ’55, 5358
Montrose, Dallas, Texas

Northern Louisiana—Robert U. Goodman,
"50, 471 Leo Street, Shreveport, Louisiana

Palm Beach-Ft. Lauderdale—Meredith F.
Baugher, ’25, 210 Orange Grove Road,
Palm Beach, Florida

Peninsula—I. Leake Wornom, Jr., ’50,
2219 Chesapeake Avenue, Hampton, Va.

Philadelphia—James T. Trundle, ’50, 159 EK,
Valley Brook Road, Haddonfield, N. J.

Piedmont—A. D. Jones, ’51, 825 W. Bes-
semer Avenue, Greensboro, N. C.

Pittsburgh—A. M. Doty, ’35, Quail Hill
Road, Fox-Chapel, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Richmond—John F. Kay, Jr., ’51, 5403
Kingsbury Road

Roanoke—William R. Holland, ’50, Moun-
tain Trust Bank, P. O. Box 1411

San Antonio—John W. Goode, Jr., ’43, 201
N. St. Mary’s Street

St. Louis—Burr W. Miller, ’49, 6632 Pep-
peridge Drive, St. Louis 34, Mo.

Southern Ohio—Robert W. Hilton, Jr., ’38,
3277 Hardisty Avenue, Cincinnati 8, Ohio

Tri-State—Joe W. Dingess, ’21, 151 Kings
Highway, Huntington, West Virginia

eee C. Hubert, ’51 P. O. Box

Upper Potomac—Thomas N. Berry, ’38, 15
N. Allegany St., Cumberland, Maryland

Washington, D. C. — Arthur Clarendon
Smith, Jr., ’41, 1813 You Street, N.W.

Wilmington—Russell F. Applegate, ’52,
Street Road, Kennett Square, Pa.

 

If you move, contact the nearest
chapter correspondent for
news of meetings.

43

News of the Chapters

Alumni Interest Reaches New High
In Oklahoma City, Tulsa, Little Rock

Oklahoma City’s first alumni activity in many years was a big success. At top, ROWLAND
DENMAN, ’58, youngest alumnus present, shakes hands with L. L. Humpnrey, ’11, the
senior member of the group, while MILLAR WHITE, JR., °50, looks on. At bottom, I-r,
JouHn DEXTER, °34, HAROLD SULLIVAN, ’32, and ENOCH PIERSOL, ’31, exchange greetings.

44

 

 

OKLAHOMA CITY

For the first time in many years,
alumni of the Oklahoma City area
joined together on January goth.
‘The informal meeting was held at
the Beacon Club beginning with a
social hour and followed by dinner.
An accordion player supphed music
during the dinner and all enjoyed
the rousing strains of ““The Swing.”
The arrangements for the excep-
tional meeting were made by Mil-
lar B. White, Jr., 51, and his father.
Among the large number of alumni
attending the dinner were George
Lowry, °37, of Clinton, Oklahoma,
and L. L. Humphrey, ’11, from
Duncan. Mr. Humphrey, as the old-
est graduate present, made a few
remarks. Because of extremely
poor flying weather, Bill Wash-
burn, executive secretary of the
Alumni Association, was unable to
attend as had been planned. The
alumni enthusiastically endorsed
plans to have another meeting lat-
er in the year.

LITTLE ROCK

Under the direction of Everett
Tucker, Jr., °34, the alumni of Ar-
kansas have fonmed a chapter with
headquarters in Little Rock. A
meeting for this purpose was held
at the Little Rock Country Club
on Friday evening, February 1.

A large number gathered for the
occasion and Bill Washburn, the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Alumni Secretary from Lexington,
was on hand to show color slides
and to give a short talk on the re-
cent developments on the campus.
‘The banquet was preceded by a so-
cial hour.

In the business meeting, Everett
‘Tucker explained the need for and
purpose of the alumni chapter and
described its boundaries. A commit-
tee was appointed for planning of
the future program. A Nominating
Committee submitted H. Tyndall
Dickinson, °41, for president and
Adrian Williamson, Jr., ’50, for
vice president, and their election
Was unanimous.

The enthusiastic alumni expres-
sed their appreciation to Everett
‘Tucker for his work in getting the
chapter started.

‘TULSA

The alumni of the Tulsa, Okla-
homa, chapter had a warm recep-
tion for the executive secretary, Bill
Washburn, on Thursday evening,
January gist. The meeting was
held at the Tulsa Club with a social
hour preceding dinner. It was the
first time in several years that a
University representative —_ had
joined in the Tulsa meetings. The
up-to-date color slides of the
campus, together with the secre-
tary’s informative remarks, made a
most enjoyable occasion. ‘The chap-
ter was also pleased to have three
prospective students from the area
to attend the meeting. They were
Jack Hunt, Mike Foresman, and
Charles Grimes. In the short busi-
ness session Eric Hubert, ’51, was
elected “General” (chapter presi-
dent.). His “lieutenants” serving as
vice presidents are James D. Perry-

re me eee Un Crna ener are a

man, Jr., ‘56, Dr. Richard Chad-
wick Johnson, ’43, and Gordon B.
Tyler, 59. Before closing the meet-
ing a rising vote of thanks and ap-
prectation was extended Phil
Campbell, ’57, for his outstanding
leadership as “General” in the past
year.
CHARLESTON

A large number of Charleston
alumni came out in the pouring
rain on Sunday, November 4th, to
greet and pay honor to the Gener-
als’ football team which was return-
ing from their victorious contest
with Centre.

A breakfast, sponsored by the
chapter, was held at the Ruffner
Hotel, and the alumni enjoyed the
fellowship and the conversation
with not only the members of the
team but also the coaching staff.
Coach McLaughlin, expressing the
sentiment of the entire team, ex-
tended sincere appreciation to Lee
Kenna, president of the chapter,
for this unique and excellent recep-
tion.

CLEVELAND

After attending the Cleveland
Browns-Philadelphia Eagles  foot-
ball game the Alumni Chapter
gathered at the Cleveland Skating
and ‘Tennis Club for Sunday night
dinner on November 4ith. Hal
Gates, ‘48, presided at the banquet.

The guest of honor was Bill
Washburn, who led an informative
discussion on the most recent de-
velopments at Washington and Lee.
Alumni Association Trustee Dr.
John Battle advised the group of
his recent visit to the campus and
emphasized the need for Cleveland
to assume leadership in alumni af-

 

on these pages impossible.

 

The alumni secretary expresses his regrets that many chapters are not
represented photographically in this section, although photos were taken of

their chapter meetings. The film was accidently damaged, making reproduction

 

 

WINTER, 1968

fairs. Following the banquet color
slides and football were
shown.

movies

NORFOLK

Holding its meeting at the Gold-
en Triangle Motor Hotel, the Nor-
folk Alumni Chapter was honored
to have President Fred C. Cole as
guest speaker on October 15th. A
large and enthusiastic group of
alumni and friends joined in the
banquet to hear President Cole
make a report on the present devel-
opments at the University and its
future plans. President Ferdinand
Phillips presided at the meeting.

During a brief business session
which was held in conjunction with
the meeting, Earle Cadmus, ’26,
was elected as the incoming presi-
dent. The chapter expressed its full-
est pleasure for Dr. Cole’s visit and
its deep appreciation to Ferdinand
Phillips for his leadership over the
past year.

COLUMBUS

Alumni in Columbus, Ohio, gath-
ered at the Athletic Club on Friday
night, November gnd, for a “smok-
er.” Bill Washburn, Executive Sec-
retary, was on hand with color
slides of the recent developments on
campus and football movies.

‘This was the first meeting of the
Columbus group in some years and
a large turn-out attended the stag
affair. The high success of the meet-
ing brought about immediate re-
quests from the Alumni to make
plans for another meeting later on
in the year.

In conjunction with the meeting,
Washburn attended several local
high schools in the area as a repre-
sentative for Washington and Lee.
H. ‘Thorp Minister was the “spark”
for this splendid meeting.

ATLANTA

A large attendiance of Atlanta
alumni joined at the Piedmont
Driving Club on November 10 for
a party at which the past presi-

45

 

Birmingham’s winter meeting brought together some of the top officials of the University. L-r, chapter president JouN V. COE, ’25,
trustees JOHN F. HENDON, ’24, and JosepH L. Lanier, ’27, Universily treasurer EARL S. MATTINGLY, ’25, and president Frep C. COLr.

dent, Dr. W. Perrin Nicolson, III
presided.

In addition to the fine fellowship
that prevailed, there was a short
business session in which the fol-
lowing officers were elected for the
coming year: President, Floyd W.
McRae, Jr., ’45; Secretary- Treasur-
er, Farris P. Hotchkiss, ’58.

‘The alumni were informed of a
visit by Associate Dean of Admis-
sions, James Farrar, in December
at which time he would visit sever-
al of the high schools and prep
schools in the Atlanta area. Floyd
McRae, after taking the gavel, ex-
pressed deep appreciation to Dr.
Nicolson for his leadership as pres-
ident during the past year.

BIRMINGHAM

‘The Birmingham chapter was
honored to have President Fred C.
Cole as its guest at a pre-Christmas
meeting. Accompanying President
Cole at the dinner meeting on De-
cember 14, was Earl S. Mattingly,
treasurer of the University, and sec-
retary to the University Board of
‘Trustees.

The meeting was held under the
direction of John Coe, Jr., ‘25,

46

 

president of the Birmingham. al-
umni chapter, at the Downtown
Club of Birmingham. Mr. Joe Lan-
ier, 27, head of West Point, Georg-
ia Manufacturing Company and
member of the Board of ‘Trustees,
made the introduction of President
Cole.

In his address to the alumni,
wives, and prospective students,
President Cole told of the develop-
ments which have taken place on
campus in the last few years and of
the projected future planning and
problems facing Washington and
Lee. All alumni were pleased with
the visit by Mr. Mattingly who has
been with the University for many
years. John Hendon, a member of
the Board of ‘Trustees and prom-
inent business man in Birmingham,
expressed appreciation to the Uni-
versity officials for their visit and
to the officers of the chapter for the
splendid meeting.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Head Football Coach Lee Mc-
Laughlin and_ backfield Coach
“Buck” Leshie were honored at a
Holiday Luncheon given by the

Alumni on December 28th at the
Army-Navy ‘Town Club. A large
crowd was on hand to hear a
resumé of the 1962 football season
and the prospects for the coming
year. Movies of this season’s games
were shown.

Julian Gillespie, president of the
chapter, introduced the alumni and
especially the prospective appli-
cants who were guests. He further
outlined the chapter programs for
1963.

Bill Washburn, Alumni Secre-
tary, was on hand, and made brief
remarks regarding the annual alum-
ni fund and the anniversary reun-
ions to be held on campus in May.

Bruce West expressed apprecia-
tion on behalf of the entire chapter
for the splendid leadership of Jul-
ian Gillespie during the past year
and extended best wishes to the
coaching staff.

MEMPHIS

In celebration of another success-
ful football season, the Memphis
chapter entertained with a dinner-
dance in conjunction with the
Washington and Lee-Southwestern

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

football game on Saturday, Novem-
ber 17th. ‘The alumni were hosts
to the football players and coaching
staff, who were the honored guests.
‘The affair was held in the elab-
orately decorated ballroom of the
University Club, beginning with
a social hour at 5:30 p.m. Buffet
dinner was served. In spite of tor-
rential rains an enthusiastic num-
ber proceeded to the night game
at Hodges Field, and the “Swing”
could be heard loud and clear over
the noise of excitement as the Gen-
erals won 22-0. Dancing at the Uni-
versity Club followed the game,
and the football players and their
dates added to the gaiety. The out-
standing program and _=arrange-
ments were handled by the chapter
officers and their committees, with

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

There was a large turnout
at Memphis. Above, l-r, Mrs.
WORTHINGTON BROWN, Mr.
Brown, ‘29, Mrs JorL W.
McDONALD, Mr. McDONALD,
23, JuLtus C. BeErry, ’g9,
(from Tupelo, Miss.) and
Mrs. Berry. Alt right, l-r, F.
OsBORNE SHAEFER, JR., 55,
JAMEs M. CREws, JrR., ‘59,
CLINT EARL, ’59, and WIL-
LIAM CARRINGTON JONES, 754.

WINTER, 1963

special thanks to President William
Carrington Jones, ’56, Jim Crews,
‘59, Ossie Schaefer, Jr., ’55, Clint
Karly, ’59, and Bill Schaefer, ’6o.

In early December James D.
Farrar, Associate Dean of Admis-
sions, visited the city and called
upon several high schools in the
area. “The alumni chapter enter-
tained with an afternoon “coke”
party at the University Club for
a number of prospective students
and their parents. Dean Farrar
joined the chapter officers for an
informal dinner at the Holiday
Inn.

RICHMOND

‘The Richmond chapter of Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni held its an-
nual fall meeting in the Assembly

Lounge of the Richmond Hotel on
‘Thursday evening, October 25th.
Charles P. Light, Jr., Dean of the
Law School, was the principal
speaker for the affair and addressed
a gathering of approximately sixty
alumni and their ladies. Edward
J. McCarty, president of the local
alumni group, presided at the meet-
ing. Howard W. Dobbins, ’42,
prominent Richmond attorney, re-
called some humorous class inci-
dents in his introduction of Dean
Light.

In his interesting and informa-
tive talk, Dean Light covered
thoroughly all the activities of the
various schools on the campus, giv-
ing equal time to the schools of
arts and sciences as well as law. He
brought greetings from Dr. Fred
Carrington Cole, President of the
University, to the alumni and _ his
regrets at being unable to attend
the Richmond meeting.

Present for the meeting were two
distinguished alumni from out of
town, Judge Beverly Hunter Bar-
row, Law Class of ‘21, and Judge D.
Carleton Mayes, Law Class of ’47,
from Dinwiddie, Virginia.

Also the Richmond chapter en-
tertained with their annual Lee’s
Birthday Party on January 1oth.

     

 

 

A group of Northern New Jersey alumni attending meeting at Glen Ridge Country Club

on Friday evening

The formal dinner-dance was held
at the Rotunda Club with excellent
arrangements by Buck Pinnell. ‘The
largest attendance on record for
this affair attests to the growing
popularity of this annual social
event.
NEW JERSEY

Members of the Northern New
Jersey branch of the New York
chapter met for a stag dinner at the
Glen Ridge Country Club on Fri-
day, November gth. This was the
first occasion for a separate meeting
of the New Jersey Alumni and all
agreed that it was most successful.

Presiding was Richard Brunn,
‘42, Vice President for Northern
New Jersey, who introduced Bill
Washburn, the Alumni Secretary
from Lexington. After some brief
remarks about recent developments
on campus, football movies and col-
or slides of the University were
shown.

In the business session Brunn re-
ported for several committees and
explained the proposed _ dinner-
dance to be held in the spring. ‘The
future program, as outlined, was
received with much enthusiasm.

PHILADELPHIA

Alumni of Philadelphia and sur-
rounding areas joined together on
February 6th with renewed enthu-
siasm for the election of new officers
and a business discussion of future

48

 

November 9g, 1962.

plans. Jim ‘Trundle, ’50, 1. M. Scott,
97, and Jim Ballengee, ‘48, are
largely responsible for the chapter’s
reorganization and ‘the large at-
tendance for the luncheon at the
Yale Club.

Invited guests from .the Wil-
mington, Del., chapter were John
T. Martin, ’26, A. L. Roberson, ‘30,
and Ropert A. Fulweiler, ‘25, all
of whom reported on the success-
ful programs of their chapter. Bill
Washburn, executive secretary of
the Alumni Association, also was
present.

The following officers were elect-
ed: President, James ‘T. ‘Trundle,
50; Vice President, James C. Con-
ner, 54; Vice President, George M.
Allen, Jr., 57; Secretary, James W.
Marvin, Jr., °56; and ‘Treasurer,
John W. Dodd, Jr., ’53.

After the election of officers, pres-

ident Jim ‘Trundle outlined the
standing committees which he pro-
posed. ‘The members approved a
motion to investigate the possibil-
ity of a Glee Club activity in Phila-
delphia in conjunction with their
already planned appearance in Wil-
mington in April. Closing the
splendid meeting, the president
noted their next meeting would be
March 6th and announcements
would be mailed to members.

BALTIMORE

‘The Baltimore chapter held its
annual fall dinner-dance at the
Paris Room of ‘The Marylander on
Saturday, January 26th. Distin-
guished guests from Lexington in-
cluded Coach and Mrs. Dana Swan.

In his remarks, Coach Swan dis-
cussed the athletic program at the
University with special emphasis
on the freshman year, as Swan is
freshman football and assistant var-
sity basketball coach.

In the business session, reports
were heard from Frank Brooks, who
is in charge of the student recruit-
ment committee, and from Bill
Pacy, a member of the Alumni
Board of ‘Trustees, who reported
on his last meeting at the Univer-
sity. Dick Whiteford made a re-
port for the treasurer, Bill Clem-
ents. Following the reports, the an-
nual elections took place and the
following officers were named _ for
the new year: President, Richard C.

 

 

A luncheon meeting of alumni was held in Philadelphia at the Yale Club in February.
That’s JAMES D. ‘TRUNDLE, ’50, chapter president, at the head of the table.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

Whiteford, ’57; Vice President, Ste-
phen M. Ehudin, ’57; Secretary,
William N. Clements, II, ’50; and
‘Treasurer, James H. O’Connor,
44.

Bill Washburn, alumni secretary,
was on hand and concluded the
business session with a few remarks
about the developments at the Uni-
versity. Dancing followed the ban-
quet.

NORTH TEXAS

A reception-dinner in honor of
Dean James Farrar was held Tues-
day evening, December 11th, at the
Brook Hollow Golf Club in Dallas.
Dean Farrar earlier had visited the
high schools in the area, accompan-
ied by the chapter officers. His
address to the assembled alumni at
dinner was a discussion of the pres-

Attending the February
chapter meeting in New
York were, l-r, EMMETT
POINDEXTER, 720, MnRsS.
POINDEXTER, J. VAUGHN
PENN, ’23, and Mrs. PENN.

ent admissions policy at Washing-
ton and Lee. The chapter and its
officers were pleased to have Dean
Farrar and are instituting programs
to assist in the area of admission
to Washington and Lee.

The next day Dean Farrar pro-
ceeded to Fort Worth where many
of the alumni of this chapter en-
tertained him and prospective stu-
dents with a dinner at the Fort
Worth Club.

HOUSTON

A group of alumni, together with
a number of prospective students
and their parents, met with Dean
James D. Farrar, Associate Dean of

WINTER, 1963

0 ne ee i er ne

Admissions, at the Houston Club
on December 10th. Dean Farrar was
here on his program of visitation
to the local high schools.

The next morning, December
11th, many alumni met with Dean
Farrar for a breakfast. The alumni
expressed their pleasure in having
him visit in Houston. ‘The chapter
is proud of the present students on
the campus at Washington and Lee.

SHREVEPORT

Associate Dean of Admissions
Jim Farrar visited Shreveport,
Louisiana, on Thursday, December
igth. After interviewing prospec-
tive students in Byrd High School,
Dean Farrar attended a tea at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Alton Sar-
tor given in honor of him and the
parents of prospective students. Of-
ficers of the chapter entertained

Dean Farrar at dinner at the

Shreveport Club.

NEW YORK

The Columbia University Club
was the scene for the annual din-
ner-dance of the New York chapter
on Friday evening, February 8. A
large number of alumni, together
with their wives, joined for the oc-
casion and were pleased to have as
their honored guest and speaker
Dean C. P. Light of the University
School of Law. The affair was pre-
ceded by a social hour.

Paul Sanders, president of the
chapter, presided at the short busi-
ness session which included treas-

urer’s reports by Emmett Poindex-
ter. Mr. Poindexter also reported
on the John W. Davis Scholarship
which the chapter sponsors. Stewart
Epley reported on the chapter’s re-
cruitment of prospective students
and explained that the committee
and their workers had called on
twelve high schools, both private
and public, in the New York area
during the year. He further ex-
plained that the chapter’s party to
welcome the new men who had
been accepted at the University
would take place in the latter part
of August. Dick Brunn reported for
the Golf Committee and extended
an invitation to the next tourna-
ment which will be held in April.
The report from the Nominating
Committee was made by Stewart
Epley. Paul Sanders, ’43 was re-
elected president and the following

 

vice presidents were named: New
York City, Matthew A. Griffith, ’40;
Upper State, W. L. “Pen” Webster,
'12; New Jersey, Richard Turrell,
"49; Connecticut, H. Glenn Chaffer,
‘49; Long Island, Gossett McRae,
‘27; Westchester County, James D.
Maver, ‘52. Emmett Poindexter, ’20,
remains secretary-treasurer.

Dean Light made a splendid re-
port on all phases of the University,
its development, and its future as-
pirations. Bill Washburn, the Exec-
utive Secretary, was also on hand
to make a very few remarks about
the progress of the annual Alumni
Fund. Dancing followed the pro-
gram and was enjoyed by everyone.

a

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

with crest in five colors

 

‘This chair is made from northern birch and rock maple—hand-rubbed
in black with gold trim (arms finished in cherry). A perfect gift for
Christmas, birthday, anniversary or wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to

the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ‘14.

Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

Price: $29.00 f.o.b. Gardner, Massachusetts

 

 

 

 

