apt e

 

0OL61 LSNONV

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNUS

VOLUME 45 NUMBER 4 AUGUST 1970

CONTENTS

1. Doremus Renovation

2. Campus News

8. North-South Lacrosse
10. Alumni Aid Admissions
11, Chapter News
12. Class Notes
16. In Memoriam

COVER

Good summer weather has permitted work to move
rapidly on the renovation and expansion of Doremus
Gymnasium. Most of the foundations for the addition
that will contain a new swimming pool and new basket-
ball arena have been completed. Meanwhile, the rebuild-
ing of the interior of the old building is expected to be
ready by the opening of school. See story on page 1.

EDITOR: William C. Washburn, °40
MANAGING EDITOR: Romulus T. Weatherman

ASSOCIATE EDITOR AND PHOTOGRAPHER:
A. Michael Philipps, ’64

EDITORIAL ASSISTANT: Mrs. Joyce Carter

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC:
Charles F. Clarke, Jr., ’38, President

Emil L. Rassman, ’41, Vice-President

William C. Washburn, ’40, Secretary

Richard H. Turrell, ’49, Treasurer

BOARD OF DIRECTORS: Upton Beall, ’51; Joe F.
Bear, ’33; Charles F. Clarke, Jr., 38; T. Hal Clarke, ’38;
A. Christian Compton, ’50; William H. Hillier, °38;
S. L. Kopald, Jr., 43; Dr. J. Peter Muhlenberg, ’50; Ed-
ward H. Ould, ’29; Emil L. Rassman, ’41; Beauregard A.
Redmond, ’55; Richard H. Turrell, ’49.

Published in February, April, June, August, October, and
December by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms
3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage paid at
Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing privileges
at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP as required by Act of Con-

ress of Aug. 24, 1912, as amended by the Acts of March 3,
1933, July 2, 1946 and June 11, 1960: The Washington and Lee
Alumnus is owned by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., and is entered_as second class matter at the Post
Office in Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
rivileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001. William C. Washburn
s editor and business manager. His address is Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450. There are no
bond, mortgage, or other security holders. The average num-
ber a aoe of each issue during the 12 preceding months
was 12,500.

 

An article in this issue reports the progress being
made on the expansion and renovation of Doremus Gym-
nasium. Completion of this multi-million-dollar program
will fulfill a long-standing necessity on the Washington
and Lee campus. The need had been recognized for many
years. Months of diligent planning preceded the begin-
ning of the project, and the continuing generosity of
many alumni and friends is making possible its comple-
tion. When the work is done, Washington and Lee will
have athletic facilities equal in quality to its outstanding
intercollegiate and intramural athletic program and
more than adequate facilities for physical education
classes and recreation. ,

But the gymnasium project is merely a beginning.
The University has other pressing physical requirements
which it must meet in the years ahead if it is to maintain
the quality of its educational program and the quality of
student life. Alumni and friends who have been reading
the University’s publications in recent months know that
these needs are extensive. President Huntley and other
members of the University administration have explained
them in general at alumni meetings, on and off the camp-
us, and at other gatherings.

A mere recitation of them makes a formidable list.
There are plans for a field house of the type that will
accommodate indoor practice in winter weather. ‘There
are plans for construction of a new library—a major un-
dertaking—and the conversion of McCormick Library
into adequate quarters for the School of Commerce, Eco-
nomics, and Politics, which has outgrown aged Newcomb
Hall. There are plans for constructing a new building to
house the School of Law, which is too cramped in old
Tucker Hall. There is a recognized need for additional
upperclass dormitories to provide upperclassmen with

the choice of living in attractive University-owned hous-

ing instead of in off-campus apartments and the like.
Associated with these requirements are plans for develop-
ment of the ravine behind the present campus to accom-
modate some of these buildings, for rearranging traffic
patterns, for providing adequate parking, for landscaping
the new developments, and for renovating and preserving
the historic front campus.

Many of these plans are still tentative. But there is
nothing tentative about the needs behind the planning.
In the past, alumni and friends have responded positively
when Washington and Lee University has asked for as-
sistance and understanding. This knowledge helps the
University face the future with confidence as it firms its
plans for meeting its physical needs.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

CAMPUS

ee:
&
Sp:
ef

   

  

ein ae ge, ge

The

By RoBERT S. KEEFE
Director of Public Information

Students and visitors will begin seeing signs of real
improvement in Washington and Lee’s athletic facilities
when classes resume this fall, as the first phase of the
$3 million Doremus Gymnasium remodeling and addi-
tion program nears completion.

Expected to be ready, or almost, are extensive renova-
tions in the old Doremus building, so familiar to W&L
people for 54 years.

According to Eugene Corrigan, the University’s ath-
letic director, most of the inside of old Doremus is being
rebuilt completely — and who knows just how badly it
all needs it better than the thousands of alumni who've
spent any time down in that basement, in that student
locker area (now replaced by new facilities), or in those
showers (ditto). That part of the overall project is practi-
cally accomplished and should be in use in September.

On the addition itself—which will more than triple
Doremus’ floor space when ready — structural work on
the ground floor has already been completed, and Cor-
rigan expects the handball and squash courts to be ready
late this fall or early in the winter.

The old pool, -being fixed up now, will be back in
service when school reopens this fall. It will be used as an
auxiliary facility when the new pool, to be located in the

Doremus addition extends from rear of old building to house new swimming pool, handball and squash courts, and new basketball arena.

Changing Face of Old Doremus--Phase One

    

fe ©:

lower level of the new addition, is finished at the be-
ginning of the 1971 school year, Corrigan said — about the
same time the 3,000-seat basketball arena, designed to be
a fit home for the super-champ Generals, should be
opened.

As students who were accustomed to parking behind
old Doremus are acutely aware, the new addition is go-
ing up on what used to be a parking lot for 100-plus cars.
Ever since construction began in February, there’s been a
parking crush, but as work progresses that problem will
be relieved, too. Two levels of parking terraces are being
developed on the hillside to the west of Doremus (where
the C&O tracks once ran, down in the ravine, until the
railroad decided to abandon its Lexington run). Each of
the levels will accommodate about 65 cars and will be
used for student parking during classes and for gym park-
ing the rest of the time.

Doing the construction work on Doremus is the J. S.
Mathers Co. of Waynesboro, supported by a number of
subcontractors and W&L’s own buildings and grounds
department. Altogether it’s expected to cost $2,973,000 by
the time the whole thing is finished. The University has
about a third of that sum on hand, and expects to raise
the rest before long.

 

 

2; CAMPUS

Fall Campus Changes Will Be No Less Significant
Than They Were A Hundred Years Ago Under Lee

A hundred years ago, Washington
College was renamed Washington and
Lee University following a five-year term
under Robert E. Lee that may have been
the most intensive period of fundamen-
tal change in the early history of Ameri-
can higher education.

This year, the name will stay the same,
and changes will seem less dramatic than
they did a century ago. But when faculty
and students return this fall, the changes
will be no fewer in number, and surely
no less significant in their effect.

One of them will be an entirely new
curriculum. In the undergraduate divi-
sions alone, 527 different courses will be
offered, an extraordinary broad range for
any institution, and 169 more than the
University offered five years ago.

The number of required courses has
been reduced to a few, and the scope of
specialized and advanced courses to aug-
ment more general offerings in every aca-
demic area has been expanded impres-
sively. |

Another change affects the academic
calendar and how students will study. Un-
der a new arrangement, study will take
place in the traditional classroom pattern
for two semesters, but then in April and
May students will participate in a so-
called mini-semester of six weeks, gener-
ally working full time in a single field.
With just one course to worry about, fac-
ulty and students can travel to Europe
to study foreign languages and cultures,
for example, or be free to attend govern-
ment sessions in Washington, D.C., Rich-
mond, or wherever. Possibilities for the
mini-semester will be virtually limitless.

Black studies will be enhanced with a
variety of new courses to supplement the
few pertinent courses previously offered.

Washington and Lee was one of the
first colleges to place heavy emphasis on
ecology when Dr. Henry S. Roberts be-
came chairman of the biology department
in 1964. The emphasis continues, and a
unique concept in problem-study will be-
gin in the mini-semester this coming year
when faculty members from seven differ-
ent academic fields—biology, economics,
religion, politics, sociology, philosophy,
and law—join with freshmen in an inter-
disciplinary examination of the popula-
tion crisis, with an eye toward arriving at
an over-all approach to the matter that in-

cludes the important contributions each
field has to offer.

Mostly because of the new curriculum
and its unprecedented flexibility, Wash-
ington and Lee’s freshman camp, held for
generations at Natural Bridge, will be
moved to the campus this year. Until now,
a freshman had little to say about the
courses he took, mainly because they were
already prescribed for him. But now, the
freshmen, together with everyone else,
have substantially more responsibility for
planning their own programs, and it’s seri-
ous business. The move immediately will
put the first-year student where the action
iS.

The University will have a record en-
rollment of almost 1,500 students this fall,
with the greatest number of freshmen
ever (see related story below). With
gloomier admissions pictures at some other
colleges, the larger number of incoming
freshmen comes despite greater selectivity
in choosing among applicants, and the
Class of 1974 brings with it better second-
ary school records and class rankings.

Students will find a number of other
changes on campus this fall. For the first
time, freshmen will be permitted to have

3

cars in Lexington. And fraternity pledg.
ing, usually a frantic affair held during
the first week of classes, has been pushed
back to mid-term, with the expected result
that freshmen will have a little more time
to begin developing personal perspectives
on college before committing themselves
to a house.

Fraternities, at one time a stalwart in-
stitution on campus, suddenly and drama-
tically have become a part of changing
times. ‘The deferred rush program is just
one element in the break with the past.
Another could possibly lead to the de-
mise of houses altogether. During the last
academic year, two fraternities—-Kappa
Sigma and Kappa Alpha—folded, and a
third—Sigma Phi Epsilon—moved out of
its house to set up operations as a lodge
in a private apartment.

There are other fraternities, accord-
ing to Dean of Students Lewis John, that
also are plagued with either manpower
shortage, financial troubles, or both, and
it could mean that several more houses
will join those now gone in the upcoming
months.

Students should be glad to see upon
their return that progress on Doremus
Gymnasium is moving steadily ahead and
is close to schedule. Good weather during
the summer has been the most helpful
boon.

 

Fraternity rushing—a leisurely wait until mid-term will replace

the former mad dash for freshmen.

CAMPUS 23

 

aieeetteeeneememenen ae

 

Personnel-wise, the University this fall
will have a greater number of young and
vigorous administrators and teachers than
ever before, working beside men of con-
siderable experience and perspective. Of
130 men (and one woman) on the faculty
in 1970, 68 are under the age of 40. ‘The
president of the University—Robert E. R.
Huntley—is 42.

The heads of five administrative divi-
sions this fall—William McC. Schildt, di-
rector of the freshman year; A. Michael
Philipps, director of photography and as-
sistant director of publications; William
A. Noell, Jr., director of financial aid;
Robert S. Keefe, director of public infor-
mation; and Robert H. Yevich, superin-
tendent of the Journalism Laboratory
Press—are under thirty.

The changes Washington and Lee will
put into effect this year are mostly the
product of several years’ inquiry and ana-
lysis, beginning in 1964, that grew out of
several hundred recommendations from a
massive self-study.

Strong Freshman Class

The entering freshman class at Wash-
ington and Lee University this fall will
be one of the strongest academically and
one of the most diverse in other character-
istics ever admitted to the University.

Admissions Director James D. Farrar
said the 384 new freshmen ranked in the
top 21 per cent of their secondary school
classes on a statistical average. One year
ago, the W&L freshman average was four
points lower.

Experience at Washington and Lee has
shown that class rank is the most accurate
indicator of a student’s probable perfor-
mance in college, Farrar said.

The average scores on the standard
Scholastic Achievement Tests (SAT’s) for
the class of 1974 were 610 on the mathe-
matics section and 574 on the verbal.

The average score on the advanced
English achievement test, required by
W&L for all entering students, was 563.
The average test scores were virtually un-
changed from a year ago.

Of the new freshmen, 68 per cent
graduated from public high schools and
32 per cent from private schools. A year
ago 70 per cent of the freshman class
came from public schools and 30 per cent
from prviate.

Virginia will send the largest number
of students, 98, to W&L in September.
Maryland will have the second largest rep-

resentation, with 36, followed by New
Jersey and Pennsylvania with 29 each,
Texas with 22, Georgia with 19, Florida
with 18, New York with 14, and North
Carolina with 12.

Altogether, 34 states and the District of
Columbia will be represented in the en-
tering class.

Philadelphia, Pa., will send more boys
—14—to W&L next fall than any other
single city. Atlanta will send 12; Balti-
more, 11; Richmond, 10; Lexington and
Roanoke, Va., nine each; Bethesda, Md.,
and Jacksonville, Fla., seven each; and
Dallas, Tex., and Norfolk, Va., six.

Faculty Salaries

The average level of faculty compen-
sation at Washington and Lee rose to
$15,493 during the academic year just
completed, according to figures compiled
by the American Association of University
Professors (AAUP).

The University maintained its tradi-
tional position as the highest-paying pri-
vate institution in Virginia, and was sec-
ond only to the University of Virginia
among all colleges and universities in the
state, the AAUP report showed.

Nationally, the average faculty com-
pensation level during the 1969-70 school
year was $13,974. Washington and Lee’s
average exceeded that by $1,519.

The average compensation level one
year ago at W&L was $14,791. The AAUP
defines “compensation” as salary and the
value of fringe benefits.

According to the AAUP’s figures,
based on a survey of 1,051 colleges and
universities throughout the nation, only
81 institutions had higher compensation
levels than the University.

The AAUP information showed
Washington and Lee’s average salary as
$13,717, and the value of fringe benefits
as $1,776.

Washington and Lee’s $15,493 over-
all average compensation level was rated
grade “B” by the association. By academic
ranks, compensation levels for instructors
were rated “AA” (highest); for assistant
and associate professors, “A”; and for full
professors, “B”.

NASA Research

Dr. James J. Donaghy of the Univer-
sity’s physics department participated in
a 10-week technical study and research
program sponsored by the National Aero-

 

nautics and Space Administration at the
Marshall Space Flight Center in Alabama
this summer.

Dr. Donaghy was one of 59 science
and engineering professors from univer-
sities and colleges in 26 states selected to
take part in the annual NASA research
program.

He conducted individual research in
Marshall Space Center laboratories, and,
at the end of the session, Dr. Donaghy’s
work and that of the other participating
scientists was compiled into documents
for use by NASA and colleges and uni-
versities.

Dr. Donaghy, an assistant professor of
physics, joined Washington and Lee’s
faculty in 1967, two years after receiving
his Ph.D. from the University of North
Carolina. Before coming to W&L, he
taught at the Virginia Military Institute
a year and conducted analytical research
with the U.S. Air Force in Honolulu,
Hawaii.

Poudrier Assumes Post

Maj. Gerald E. Poudrier of Lexington,
a member of the University’s Reserve Of-
ficer Training Corps staff since 1966, will
become director of annual giving in Wash-
ington and Lee’s development office, Presi-
dent Robert E. R. Huntley has announced.

Poudrier, who retired from the Army
Aug. 1 in order to assume his new duties,
was an associate professor of military sci-
ence and executive officer of the Univer-
sitys ROTC detachment.

As director of annual giving, he will
supervise operation of the Parents’ Fund
and be responsible together with W&L’s
Alumni Association for the Alumni Fund.
In addition, Poudrier will work closely
with other members of the development
office on a wide range of special projects.

Announcing the appointment, Presi-
dent Huntley said Poudrier “has demon-
strated unusual administrative ability and
the kind of infectious enthusiasm the Uni-
versity looks for.

“T am extremely pleased he has agreed
to join our development staff.”

Poudrier succeeds William C. Tyler,
director of annual giving since 1969. Tyler
will begin study at Emory University’s
Graduate School of Business in September.

Speaking of Poudrier’s appointment,
Director of Development Farris P. Hotch-
kiss said annual giving “provides us with
the essential financial resources to fill
the gap between tuition fees and the ac-

 

 

4 CAMPUS

tual cost of providing a quality undergrad-
uate education.

“I am confident that under Maj.
Poudrier’s direction the annual giving pro-
grams will continue to grow at a rate per-
mitting us to meet that challenge.”

Born in St. Petersburg, Fla., Poudrier
was graduated in 1954 from Indiana Uni-
versity with a degree in business adver-
tising and personnel management. In col-
lege, he was a member of the varsity foot-
ball and wrestling teams, and he served as
president of Indiana’s Interfraternity
Council.

Commissioned a second lieutenant in
1954, he served in Vietnam as a special
advisor to the Vietnamese Ranger Bat-
tallion and was awarded three Purple
Heart decorations, two Vietnamese Crosses
of Gallantry, the Bronze Star, and the Air
Medal.

Annual Funds Increase

Contributions to Washington and Lee
from parents and alumni increased by
almost five per cent to $357,236, a record
level, Director of Development Farris P.
Hotchkiss said in a report on the fiscal
year which ended June 30.

More parents and alumni, 4,755, con-
tributed to the funds in the 1969-70 year
than ever before, he said.

In the year just ended, he said, 4,286
W&L graduates contributed a total of
$297,334 to the Alumni Fund. Contribu-
tions to the Parents’ Fund came from 469
parents and totaled $59,902.

Washington and Lee’s operating budget
during the year ending June 30 was $5.25
million.

In the previous year, a total of $341,-
797 was contributed by parents and
alumni, when the budget was $5.1 million.

Hotchkiss said he was gratified by the
increased level of contributions to the two
funds and by the increase in the number
of contributors. He noted the 4.5 per
cent increase in parent and alumni con-
tributions contrasted with decreased levels
of giving which a number of other col-
leges experienced during the 1969-70 year,
attributed generally to the slump in the
nation’s economy.

The dollar total of the Alumni Fund
has increased 18 per cent in the past
three years, he said, while contributions
to the Parents’ Fund have increased 145
per cent in the same period. In the
1967-68 year, a total of $302,000 was
recorded for the two funds.

Similarly, he said, the combined totals
of the two funds has almost doubled in
the last five years.

Whoa!

Washington and Lee political science
professor Milton Colvin’s bid to become
Virginia’s Democratic U.S, Senate candi-
date in November was abruptly halted in
the July 14 primary election.

In the lowest turnout in modern
times, Colvin trailed the other two con-
tenders—George C. Rawlings, Jr. of Fred-
ericksburg and Clive L. DuVal, II, of Fair-
fax—by a wide margin.

Rawlings won the election with 58,-
874 votes, slightly ahead of DuVal’s draw
of 58,174. Colvin polled 11,911 votes. An
official canvass conducted by the State
Board of Election on July 22 set the turn-
out at 128,595, which compared to the
more than 430,000 voters who went to the
polls for the Democratic primary and run-
off for the gubernatorial nomination last
year.

Just after the election, there was specu-
lation that DuVal would ask for a runoff,
since Rawlings had not received a major-
ity and because the 700-vote difference be-
tween the two candidates represented less
than one per cent of the total vote.

But on July 24, DuVal announced that
he would not ask for a runoff, causing one
Lexington Democrat to say that his party
‘“wouldn’t have to bleed anymore.”

In the Democratic run for Virginia’s
gubernatorial chair last year, a devisive
primary runoff between liberal Henry
Howell and moderate William Battle
weakened the party considerably, accord-
ing to many Democrats and political ob-
servers, and eased the way for a Republi-
can victory by Gov. Linwood Holton, a
Washington afd Lee alumnus.

Colvin, who voted at 7:00 a.m. the
morning of the primary, said at that time
he felt his chances were good if the vote
that day was heavy.

“If the vote is light,” he said propheti-
cally, “then we’re going to be crucified.”

Targeting his campaign to the middle-
of-the-road and conservative voter and
thus offering a clear choice from liberals
Rawlings and DuVal, Colvin, calling him-
self a common-sense moderate, took the
stump on a platform that included drug
concern, Indochina, taxation, and school
busing topics.

But, apparently, most of the voters he
was appealing to failed to cast ballots in

 

the primary, either out of apathy that
characterized the race throughout or be.
cause they intend to vote for incumbent
Sen. Harry F. Byrd, Jr., the conservative
who dropped out of the Democratic Party
last spring to run as an independent in
November. (Ray Garland of Roanoke
will be the Republican candidate.)

Like Rawlings and DuVal, Colvin re.
lied heavily on television advertising, par-
ticularly during the latter stages of the
campaign. Most of the spots were hard
sell themes on drug abuse and taxation,

In Lexington, Buena Vista, and Rock-
bridge County—his home territory—the
vote was also light, but those who did go
to the polls gave Colvin strong backing.
He won Lexington with 289 votes to Du-
Val’s 121 and Rawlings’ 78, while Buena
Vista gave him 47 votes to Rawlings’ 25
and Duval’s 19. In Rockbridge County,
Colvin won with 122 votes to DuVal’s
82 and Rawlings 59. The total vote for
Lexington, Buena Vista, and Rockbridge:
Colvin 458, DuVal 222, and Rawlings 162.

$8 Legal Counsel

The following story is reprinted from
the June 22 issue of the Roanoke Times
It was written by Joel Turner of the
Times Shenandoah Bureau.

All persons charged with felonies are
entitled to legal counsel when they go

to trial. If the indigent are unable to hire

a lawyer, the court appoints one for
them. By law, the poor cannot be denied
legal assistance in felony cases.

But the poor, like the wealthy, need
legal assistance on many occasions when
not faced with serious criminal charges.
Problems like domestic relations, divorces,
adoptions and appeals of Social Security
and welfare payments in particular con-
front the indigent.

In most such cases there are no statutory
guarantees for legal representation. With-
out money for lawyers’ fees, the poor fre-
quently are the victims of the legal system
or find themselves helpless in initiating
legal action.

“The poor need a lawyer at times just
as bad as they need a doctor or food,”
said a Rockbridge County area lawyer in
explaining why a legal aid office for the
indigent and welfare recipients has been
opened at Lexington.

What makes the Rockbridge Legal Aid
Association unusual is the fact that Wash-
ington and Lee University Law School
students man the office and do much of

 

 

 

Pete Van Dine of Doylestown, Pa., one of several law students
working for the Rockbridge Legal Aid Association.

the “leg work” for lawyers who handle
the cases for the indigent.

The arrangement has dual benefits: It
enables more clients to get assistance and
it gives the law school students valuable
experience in interviewing clients and
working on actual court cases.

Lawyers in the area have always done
some work for the poor on a “more or
less free basis,” said John C. Lane, a
W&L law student working in the legal
aid office this summer.

He said the lawyers decided that if
law students could man the office, get the
initial facts of the indigent client’s legal
difficulties and then,rotate the cases among
area lawyers, a greater number of persons
could be served.

The Legal Aid Association, which has
its office in the Rockbridge County court-
house square, is a joint operation be-
tween the W&L Law School and the Lex-
ington-Buena Vista-Rockbridge County
Bar Association. The bar association spon-
sors it.

The students interview indigent persons
seeking legal aid, determine the facts of
their difficulties and then contact a mem-
ber of the bar association for a profes-
sional decision on whether they have a
case. If there is a case, the students make
an appointment with lawyers on a rotating
basis.

The lawyers handle the case when it
is actually in court. But students attend
the interviews between client and lawyer,

CAMPUS .5

do much of the legal research and assist
in the preparation of memorandums,
Lane said.

Both the Voluntary Legal Aid Associa-
tion and the Legal Research Association
are companion associations within the law
school. The Research Association solicits
cases from lawyers throughout the state
for research and the students prepare
memorandums.

A student must participate in both and
must prepare a memorandum for the
Research Association before he can work
in the legal aid office, Lane said.

The office accepts all cases from
clients meeting financial requirements
except criminal felonies, personal injury
and contingency suits.

To qualify for the aid services, a family
of four persons or more must have an
income of $3,000 or less. For each person
fewer than four in a family, $600 is
subtracted from the $3,000 income level.

The complete charge to clients for the
cases is $8 which is contingent upon
ability to pay. The fees are used to pay
office expenses.

The Bar Association members handle
the cases without pay. Lane said they all
accept cases when they are contacted.

The volume of work has increased as
the availability of the services becomes
more widely known in the area. The first
semester the office was open last year,
the association handled 21 cases and six
welfare hearings.

Domestic relations litigation and
appeals of Social Security and welfare
payments have been the “biggest busi-
ness,’ Lane said.

Both Lane and James McMahon,
another student working in the office, feel
the Legal Aid Association is providing
representation for citizens who heretofore
have not had the financial means for
needed legal help.

“Before, these persons were not invited
into an attorney’s office,” Lane said. ‘“We
have the time to talk with these people
and get the facts. A lawyer just doesn’t
have the time for the lengthy interviews
such cases usually require. These people
would not have gone into an attorney's
office for fear of not having the money
or getting turned down,” he said.

This summer four students, all seniors
in the law school, are staffing the office
on an alternating schedule.

“We are all here for the experience,”
Lane said. ‘“The greatest experience is to
interview a client and dig out the facts.

99

 

 

©: CAMPUS

He said the program has proven very
popular with law school students, with
more volunteers than can be accommo-
dated. Students are chosen on the basis
of their academic record.

* * #

The Washington and Lee Legal Aid
and Research Association now has three
phases to its operations.

The legal aid service to indigents in
Rockbridge County, described in the
above story, completed its first full year of
activity during the 1969-70 academic year.
During that period, a total of 68 matters
were brought to the legal aid office which
required some kind of significant effort
on the part of the students to dispose of
them satisfactorily. The office is open
throughout the year from 1 p.m. to 5
p.m. Monday through Friday and from
10 am. to 2 p.m. on Saturday. Professor
J. W. H. Stewart supervises this part of
the association’s work.

Legal research on problems submitted
by practicing lawyers has been in opera-
tion for several years and is mentioned
briefly in the above story. The problems
which are researched are not theoretical.
They are actual questions of law sub-
mitted by lawyers who seek assistance
from the association in handling the
affairs of their clients. Twenty-nine legal
memorandums were prepared for lawyers
by W&L law students during 1969-70.
Professor Stewart also supervises this as-
pect of the association’s activity.

The association’s newest operation is
legal aid service to inmates of the Al-
derson Reformatory for Women _ in
Alderson, W.Va. With the cooperation
and support of the Federal Bureau of
Prisons and the Federal Judicial Center,
the association helps take care of the legal
problems of the inmates. Washington and
Lee law student’ participation in the pro-
ject has been approved by the Supreme
Court of West Virginia and by repre-
sentatives of the bar associations of the
state. Operations did not get under way
until late in the second semester of
1969-70, but Dean Roy Lee Steinheimer,
Jr., says the indications are that there
will be considerable activity in this
project. Professor Wilfred J. Ritz super-
vises the program.

Faculty Promotions

Promotions for 20 members of the
University’s faculty have been announced
by President Robert E. R. Huntley.

Seven associate professors will become
full professors when the promotions go
into effect Sept. 1, President Huntley
said. Nine assistant professors will be-
come associate professors, and four in-
structors will become assistant profesors.

Promoted to full professorships were:

—John F. DeVogt, head of the admini-
stration department in the School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics since
1969. A faculty member since 1962, he
received his Ph.D. from the University
of North Carolina in 1966, and he has
taught courses in quantitative methods,
production methods, business and policy
reports, decision-making theory, and in-
troductory statistics.

—L. Randlett Emmons, who joined
the faculty in 1961, the year he received
his Ph.D. from the University of Vir-
ginia. He has taught courses in genetics,
evolution and cell biology, and will con-
duct a special seminar in microbial gene-
tics next spring.

—Jefferson Davis Futch, III, who came
to W&L in 1962 after receiving his Ph.D.
from the Johns Hopkins University. He
has taught courses in European history,
as well as the freshman survey course,
and will teach a seminar next year on the
history of Venice.

—H. Marshall Jarrett, a member of
the faculty since 1963 who earned the
Ph.D. from Duke University in 1962. He
has taught courses in the Old Regime,
the French Revolution, Napoleonic
France, the advanced senior seminar in
European history, and basic freshman
survey courses in European history.

—John Brown Goehring, a faculty
member since 1963, the year after he re-
ceived the Ph.D. degree from the Univer-
sity of North Carolina. He has taught
courses in instrumental analysis and ad-
vanced inorganic chemistry, as well as
special topical seminars.

—H. Robert Huntley, a member of the
faculty since 1962. He earned the Ph.D.
from the University of Wisconsin in 1965,
and he has taught courses in critical
reading and writing, in the British novel
between 1900 and 1965, literary genres,
and will lead a special seminar next
spring on psychological and mythological
patterns in literature.

—Odell S. McGuire, who joined the
faculty in 1962, the year he received his
Ph.D. from the University of Illinois.
He has taught courses in paleontology
and evolution, stratigraphy, sedimenta-
tion, and invertibrate fossils.

 

Promoted to associate professorships
were:

—Thomas C. Imeson, II, a faculty
member since 1966 who received his Ph.D.
a year earlier from the University of
Florida. He is a 1961 B.S. graduate of
W&L. He has taught courses in general
chemistry, introductory and advanced
physical chemistry, experimental physical
chemistry, and instrumental analysis.

—Robert S. Johnson, a 1966 Ph.D.
graduate of the University of North Caro-
line who joined the faculty in 1965. He
has taught courses in calculus and ab-
stract algebra, from introductory through
advanced levels in both fields.

—Lewis H. Larue, a member of the
law faculty since 1967 who holds the LL.B.
from Harvard University (1962) and the
B.A. from Washington and Lee (1959).
He has taught courses in property, ad-
ministrative law, international law, local
governmental law, Roman law, and real
estate transactions.

—Andrew W. McThenia, Jr., currently
legal advisor to the University. He re-
ceived the B.A. and LL.B. degrees from
Washington and Lee in 1958 and 1963,
respectively, and the M.A. degree from
Columbia University in 1960. He has
taught courses in contracts, equity, fed-
eral anti-trust laws, government contracts,
and natural resource laws.

—Robert W. McAhren, a faculty mem-
ber since 1966 who received his Ph.D. a
year later from the University of Texas.
He has taught courses in American his-
tory, social and intellectual history of the
United States, and will lead the senior
seminar in American history next spring.

—Thomas G. Nye, who received the
Ph.D. degree in 1966 from the University
of Kentucky and joined the W&L faculty
the same year. He has taught courses in
the taxonomy and morphology of vascu-
lar plants and in cell biology, and will
conduct a special field-oriented ecology
seminar course next spring.

—Herman W. Taylor, Jr., a 1957 gra-
duate of the University of North Caro-
lina who joined the W&L faculty in
1962. He received the Ph.D. from UNC
this year. Head of the ancient languages
department, he has taught courses in ele-
mentary Greek and Latin, basic and ad-
vanced Republican prose, and courses in
prose, verse, and drama, emphasizing the
works of Homer, Horace, Platus, Terence,
and others.

—Joseph B. Thompson, a 1966 Ph.D.
graduate of the University of Wisconsin

 

who joined the faculty the same year. He
has taught courses in physiological psy-
chology, psychological statistics, and ex-
perimental psychology, emphasizing per-
ceptive facilities, as well as introductory
courses.

—Sidney J. Wlliams, Jr., who received
the Ph.D. from the University of North
Carolina in 1966, the year he rejoined the
W&L faculty. He has taught courses in
Spanish literature and in Spanish con-
versation and composition, as well as basic
Spanish language courses.

Promoted to assistant professorships
were:

—Lewis G. John, currently dean of
students. He is a 1958 graduate of the
University and holds a master’s degree in
public affairs from Princeton University.
He teaches a course in public admini-
stration in the politics department.

—Russell C. Knudson, who joined the
faculty in 1966 after receiving the M.A.
degree from the University of Illinois.
He has taught elementary and intermedi-
ate French and an introductory course in
French literature.

—Mario Pelliciaro, a 1955 graduate of
the City College of New York who joined
the faculty in 1966. He has taught courses
in elementary Latin and Greek, in the
structural analysis of classical prose, in
Greek history and philosophy, in Republi-
can prose, and in Homeric epics.

—Henry E. Sloss, Jr., who rejoined the
faculty in 1968 and who holds the M.A.
from the University of Minnesota. He has
taught courses in critical reading and
writing, major works in British literature,
and major works in American literature.

ROTC Review

Deans William J. Watt and Lewis G.
John were among 166 administrators from
91 colleges and universities who visited
and reviewed Reserve Officer Training
Corps (ROTC) cadets at Indiantown Gap
Military Reservation in Annville, Pa., on
July 14 and 15.

Forty ROTC students from Washing-
ton and Lee underwent the six-week
summer basic training program at Indian-
town Gap, together with more than 5,000
ROTC cadets from other colleges.

Dr. Watt, associate dean of the Col-
lege, and John, dean of students, at-
tended the two-day program for college
officials to observe first-hand the perfor-
mance of W&L’s ROTC students.

CAMPUS <7

 

 

George's Last Fight

WOOD-PECK-ER. Any of various birds
of the family Picidae, having
strong claws and a stiff tail
adapted for climbing trees, and
a chisellike bill for drilling
through bark or wood.

 

“Old George” is having his shoulder patched again.

The workers are back on top of Washington Hall, the administration build-
ing at Washington and Lee University, patching another hole in the 138-year-old
statute of George Washington.

In 1842, Mathew Kahle, a Lexington cabinetmaker, carved the wooden
statute of Washington wearing a Roman toga. He gave it to the school, then
known as Washington College. College officials put the statue on the cupola
atop Washington Hall—and the woodpeckers have been working on it ever
since.

This time they carved a three-inch hole, visible from the ground, in the
front of the left shoulder of the statue. According to D. E. Brady, Jr., superin-
tendent of buildings and grounds, woodpeckers made the cavity ‘‘and then some
starlings moved in and tried to build a nest.”

Last week Eugene W. Bare, a Lexington painting contractor, started repair
work on the statue. His painters have patched the hole with a plaster-like ma-
terial. They’ll give the whole statue a fresh coat of white paint in a few days.

The statue gets a patch job about every two years, Brady said, and it’s
inspected every six months.

The job usually takes a week. The work itself doesn’t take too long, he
said, but the plaster material takes a long time to dry.

Brady said he doesn’t know how much longer the statue will last. ‘There
are two schools of thought on what should be done with it, he said. One is to
keep on patching the original statue for as long as it will hold together; the
other is to replace it with a replica and put the original in a museum.

But the statue looks a lot better from the ground than close up, he said.
It is roughly carved and the sculptor proportioned it to look proper from ground
level.

Brady quoted one member of the fine arts faculty as saying it is
good example of primitive sculpture.”

“It’s similar in construction to the figurehead on a ship, and it’s also some-
what like a cigar store Indian,” he said.

But while the debate about the future of “Old George’ continues, Bare’s
men, who have been keeping the statue in condition for two generations, will
continue the patchwork.

6é

a very

—Roanoke Times, July 3, 1970

 

 

 

3 ATRILETICS

South Takes All-Star Lacrosse Classic;

MacLaughlin’s Goal Wins Game,

By JOHN HUGHEs
Director of Sports Information

Any way you look at it, the North-South
All-Star Lacrosse Game on June 13 was
a tremendous success.

A crowd of almost 4,000 people seemed
to fill Wilson Field for the game, and
everyone stayed throughout the thrilling
contest. The weather was perfect, al-
though certainly too hot and humid for
the 52 players.

The game couldn’t have been more
exciting. The South won a thriller, 11-10,
as Navy’s Harry MacLaughlin scored the
winning goal with 3:03 left in the game.

Many of the spectators, those from
the Lexington area especially, were seeing
their first lacrosse game, and they loved
it. From all reports, local people want to
see more lacrosse, and some have even
expressed interest in getting a program
started in the area high schools.

The huge crowd—much larger than any-
one could possibly have anticipated—
helped assure that W&L can at least
meet expenses for the game, and may
possibly turn a small profit for the spon-

11-10

sor, the U. S. Intercollegiate Lacrosse As-
sociation (USILA). The major expense
involved feeding and housing the players
and coaches for the four days of practice
prior to the game.

Washington and Lee gained an
measurable amount of prestige and made
and indelibly favorable impression on the
hundreds of out-of-towners who attended
the game. As Dean Emeritus Frank J.
Gilliam expressed it: “A great many
people received an impression of Wash-
ington and Lee that money could not
buy.”

Two W&L alumni, both former great
lacrosse standouts here, summed it up
best: “Every comment I heard was ‘the
best run, best organized affair ever’,” said
Bill Clements, ’50. “The game of lacrosse
went ahead three decades in Rockbridge
County,” commented Bill Pacy, ’50. “I
talked with people who had never seen
[a lacrosse game] before and they all were
tickled to death with it.”

Promoting the game took a great deal

im-

 

of effort by many persons, especially since
lacrosse is (or was) not exactly a house.
hold word in the Lexington area. Co.
chairmen Gene Corrigan and Dick Szlasa
and their staff had to sell not only the
North-South Game, but lacrosse itself,

The players, who represented the best.
college lacrosse teams in the country, cer.
tainly did their part, giving the spectators
an exciting game and enjoying themselves
while doing it.

“I have really had a great time,
Pete Kramer,

” said
the University of North
Carolina’s outstanding goalie, after the
game. “Everyone was so nice to us, and
all the players have really enjoyed them-
selves. And winning the game just made
the whole week complete.”

Kramer was one of the stars for the
South team, along with MacLaughlin and
Johns Hopkins’ Charlie Coker. Kramer
gave up only four goals and made 15 saves,
all in the second half.

Army’s great Pete Cramblet was the
outstanding player for the North. He
scored four goals, one of them with only
three seconds left in the first half for a
6-6 tie. North goalie Mike Stanton of Yale
had 10 saves.

The North, behind Cramblet, took an
early 3-0 lead and was still ahead, 3-1,
after the first quarter. But the South
rallied behind Coker (two goals and two

 

South goalie Pete Kramer of North Carolina deflects third-quarter shot by Cornell’s Mark Webster (23), one of
15 second-half saves he made during North-South game on Wilson Field.

 

 

assists) and Maryland’s Reed Kaestner
(two goals) for a 6-5 lead.

After Cramblet tied it just before inter-
mission, the game was nip-and-tuck the
rest of the way. The South took leads of
9-7 and 10-8 on goals by Virginia’s Jim
Potter and MacLaughlin, but the North
came back for a 10-10 tie on goals by
Cramblet and Syracuse’s (would you be-
lieve?) Jeff Davis.

Then MacLaughlin scored the clincher,
unassisted from seven yards out front, and
received the unanimous vote of sports
writers (including those from Baltimore
and the New York Times) as the game’s
outstanding player.

Washington and Lee’s Tom Groton
played in the contest, and early in the
game managed to break free for a shot
at the goal which just missed.

A preliminary game pitting high school
lacrosse stars provided as much excite-
ment as the college game. A group of
upstart New Jersey all-stars surprised a
team of the top Baltimore County play-
ers, 11-8, by jumping to a 5-0 lead and
completely controlling the ball for the
first 514 minutes.

The New Jersey schoolboys have been
playing lacrosse for only five years, while
Baltimore has long been the _ sport’s
“home.” This prompted the delirious New
Jersey coach, Steve Jacobson of state
champion Fair Lawn, to declare after the
game that New Jersey is now “the lacrosse
capitol of the world.”

Oh well, Baltimore, first it was the
Colts, then the Bullets, then the Orioles,
and now...

A Big Surprise

Washington and Lee’s lacrosse Gen-
erals, everyone’s soft touch for the past
several years, seemed to come out of no-
where this past spring.

The 8-3 record was the best ever re-
corded in the sport, and it came as a re-
sult of a fired-up offense, a sounder de-
fense, and a bumper crop of freshman
players that head coach Dick Szlasa round-
ed up on extensive recruiting visits.

The Generals dramatic renaissance
was led by freshman midfielder Sam En-
glehart, sophomore attackman Scott Neese,
and senior attackman Tom Groton. En-
glehart scored 35 times during the season
(he got six goals against Loyola), while
Neese scored 12 goals and had 26 assists.
Groton, who played in the North-South
game, added 25 goals and had one assist.

 

ATALETICS 29

 

Washington and Lee’s Tom Groton (10) and Chip Tompkins scramble
for loose ball during Generals’ lacrosse renaissance.

Altogether, W&L scored 111 goals dur-
ing the season.

The Generals were listed by Rothstein
among the top 20 teams in the nation,
while a poll conducted by the Baltimore
Sun placed W&L just out of the top 10.

Washington and Lee’s defense, center-
ed around junior Bill Brumback and
senior Ned Coslett, limited the 11 oppon-
ents to 76 goals. Brumback won a spot
on the Little All-America first team, and
Coslett and junior midfielder Whit Mor-
rill were named to the third team. Cos-
lett was a repeat selection from last year’s
Little All-America honor list.

Brumback’s position on the first team
marked the first time since 1958 a General
had won that honor, and it was only the
third time in the history of the sport at
W&i that a player had advanced that far.
Goalkeeper Jim Lewis made the first team
in 1958, and goalie Bill Clements was
named in 1950.

Ironically, Brumback was not among
the All-South Atlantic Division selections,
a list that included Coslett, Neese, Mor-
rill, and Englehart as first team picks
(junior goalie Bill Ingersoll was named
to the second team). Division champion
North Carolina also had four players on
the premier squad.

Washington and Lee posted wins over
Genesco (9-2), Villanova (10-6), Duke (8-

5), Baltimore (10-7), Roanoke (20-5),
Washington (10-4), Loyola (15-3), and the
University of Maryland — Baltimore
County (12-6). The Generals lost to ‘Tow-
son State (11-7), North Carolina (8-7), and
Virginia (19-3).

Brainy Athletes

Washington and Lee University has
laid claim to having the smartest cross-
country team in the world.

Grades recorded in the University’s
registrar’s office for the 1969-70 academic
year show that two cross-country runners,
Bill Wilkinson and Paul Wilber, both
made all A’s at least one semester. Wil-
kinson had a perfect mark for both se-
mesters.

Two other cross-country runners, Car-
ter Glass and David Haydu, also made the
dean’s list, which requires at least a B
average.

W&L also boasts two football players
who recorded all A’s—Drew Kumpuris,
co-captain and linebacker, and Dick Gra-
ham, a reserve on both the football and
lacrosse squads.

Martin Schmidt, who captained W&L’s
rifle team, also recorded all A’s.

Altogether 28 W&L athletes earned
dean’s list recognition the first semester
and 34 achieved the honor the second.

 

Alumni Admissions Representatives

Aid in Recruiting Qualified Students

Recruiting qualified secondary school
students to attend Washington and Lee
University has taken an active and unique
direction within the past few years. No
longer is the University waiting for ap-
plications to come in on their own, and,
in fact, it cannot afford to since most other
colleges and universities have upgraded
their recruiting efforts considerably. In
the following article, William McC.
Schildt of the Washington and Lee admis-
sions office explains a new concept the
University has inaugurated in an effort to
attract top students to Washington and
Lee.

Why high school students become in-
terested in a particular college, decide to
apply, and decide to attend after accept-
ance is somewhat mysterious even to per-
sons with long experience in college ad-
missions. We do know, however, that alum-
ni play a valuable role in creating interest
in their alma mater among the young
people in their community. This has been
especially true of Washington and Lee
alumni.

A survey of this past year’s freshman
class indicated that more students were
first introduced to Washington and Lee by
alumni than by any other source of infor-
mation, including current Washington
and Lee students and secondary school
counselors. The same survey indicated
that, except for current Washington and
Lee students and the University cata-
logue, alumni were the most helpful source
of information in familiarizing high school
students with Washington and Lee. Alum-
ni also ranked high in exercising signifi-
cant influence over students’ decisions to
apply to Washington and Lee and to en-
roll upon acceptance.

Beyond generating interest by example,
alumni are an institution’s continuing
influence in a community and can give
valuable assistance in extending that in-
fluence among young people in their
community. Alumni not only create in-
terest in their alma mater but are in a
unique position to respond to that in-
terest.

Washington and Lee has been fortun-
ate in having over the years a large num-
ber of alumni throughout the country
who have taken an active interest in en-

 

couraging young men to consider Wash-
ington and Lee for their college education.
This interest has been exhibited through
written recommendations, informal dis-
cussions with students and their parents,
visits to secondary schools, and assistance
with admissions staff visits to schools in
many cities.

‘The admissions office has for sometime
been considering the implementation of a
program which would provide a more for-
mal structure for the creation of interest
by alumni among students in their com-
munity and for alumni response to that in-
terest. Last fall, as a beginning, the office
organized an Alumni Admissions Repre-
sentatives Program in five areas’ of the
country — Atlanta, Chicago, Cleveland,
Philadelphia, and the Piedmont area of
North Carolina. An increase in the size
of the admissions staff last fall enabled
the staff to give attention to the program’s
operation from the admissions office and
to increase the number of cities and sec-
ondary schools visited by members of the
staff.

Some alumni who were first contacted

about the program understandably raised
the question: Why does the University
seek to expand interest in Washington
and Lee when it already receives applica-
tions from more than three times the num-

 

 

10: ALUMNI

ber of students enrolled in each freshman
class? The answer to this question indj.
cates that the program is concerned with
two groups of outstanding students—those
who in the absence of a more active alum.
ni effort would not learn of Washington
and Lee, and those who although familiar
with the University never become thor.
oughly acquainted with it.

Although Washington and Lee con-
tinues to be selective in the admission of
students and continues to attract students
from all areas of the United States, there
are many young men whom the University
would like to have among its students
who are not familiar with Washington
and Lee. There are other students whose
initial interest wanes because they have
not had a personal introduction to the op-
portunities and experiences offered by the
University. We are certain that alumni
will concur in our commitment that no
qualified young man should overlook
Washington and Lee because he knows
too little about the University or because
he cannot acquire information about it.
In short, we are striving to communicate
as effectively as possible the educational
Opportunities available at Washington
and Lee. Alumni can be a vital part of
our total program of communication with
high school students.

During the fall of 1969, members of
the admissions staff collectively spent 21
weeks visiting private and public high
schools throughout the country to talk
with students and guidance counselors.
The secondary school visits extended to
30 different states and included 60 cities
or metropolitan areas. Direct visits were
made to 295 schools in 1969. Although
school visitations by the admissions staff
have more than tripled within the last two
years, obviously we are unable during a
10-week period each fall to visit anywhere
near all the schools we would like to visit
or to talk with all students who may be
interested in learning more about Wash-
ington and Lee. Equally as important as
direct visits to secondary schools is the
need for supportive assistance in an area
after a staff member’s visit—to maintain
interest among students and to provide
them continually with complete informa-
tion.

To establish the Alumni Admissions
Representatives Program on a pilot basis
in the five areas last fall, alumni were
asked to act as University representatives
to assist the admissions office in acquaint-
ing young men and high school guidance

 

 

counselors with Washington and Lee and
in bringing to the University’s attention
young men whom it would like to have
among its students.

Representatives in each of the five
areas are headed by a chairman or, in
large areas, by co-chairmen. Area repre-
sentatives are asked to meet with interest-
ed young men to acquaint them with
Washington and Lee and to identify stu-
dents in whom the University should be
particularly interested. Representatives
are also asked to assist the admissions
staff with their secondary school visits and
to make some independent visits to area
schools. The chairmen in each area are
responsible for coordinating the alumni
effort as well as serving as representatives.

Alumni representatives are informed
of the name of each student in their area
who submits an application for admission
and are asked to communicate with him.
When final decisions on applications have
been made, the admissions office provides
representatives with the names of those
students in their area who have been ac-
cepted for admission and asks for their
assistance in attracting those young men
to the University. We encourage the alum-
ni chapters in each of the five areas to
hold luncheons or similar meetings during
the Thanksgiving or Christmas holidays
for interested high school students. Meet-
ings in late March or early April for ap-
plicants who have been offered admission
would also be effective as part of the
Alumni Admissions Representatives Pro-
gram.

It seems undeniable today that a signi-
ficant measure of the vitality, strength,
and promise of a liberal arts “teaching”
college is the caliber and potential of its
students. To insure the continuation of
the highest of these qualities, the admis-
sions office is constantly seeking to give
Washington and Lee a greater presence
among high school students throughout
the country. We believe that a more ac-
tive alumni involvement in our admis-
sions efforts can contribute greatly to the
achievement of this goal.

In the coming year we hope to im-
prove upon our initial implementation of
the Alumni Representatives Program in
the five selected areas. We hope to in-
crease our communication with the alum-
ni in the five areas and to bring them into
a closer working relationship with the
University, thus enabling them in turn to
develop interest in the University among
young men in their community.

 

ALUMNI 219

At the May meeting of the Appalachian chapter were Farris Hotchkiss, director of
development; Ben M. Brown, ’46, of Kingsport; Nelson W. Burris, ’26, of Johnson
City; James W. Harman, Jr., ’44, of Tazewell; Hanes Lancaster, Jr.,’46, of Johnson City.

CHAPTER NEWS

APPALACHIAN. Director of Develop-
ment Farris Hotchkiss and Alumni Sec-
retary Bill Washburn were University rep-
resentatives at a meeting of the chapter
May 20 in Johnson City, Tenn. Wash-
burn briefly reviewed the May campus un-
rest, and Hotchkiss pointed to some of
the short- and long-range plans of the
University. Outgoing president Nelson W.
Burris, ’26, presented the chapter’s new
officers: president A. C. Smeltzer, ’29; vice
presidents John M. Jones, III, ’37, David
H. Frackelton, 62, H. Estel Harman, ’35,
E. William King, ’49, and James W. Har-
man, Jr., 44; and secretary-treasurer W.
Hanes Lancaster, Jr., *46.

SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT. Ath-
letic Director Gene Corrigan and Alumni
Secretary Bill Washburn visited the chap-
ter at the annual meeting in Greenville
on May 26. Corrigan delivered a report
on student activities and he also describ-
ed, in detail, the University’s athletic pro-
gram and the role in which alumni could
play in strengthening the program. Presi-
dent Al Fleishman, ’41, presided over the
meeting.

CHARLOTTE. Dean of Students Lewis
John, Assistant Director of Development

Bill Tyler, and June graduate Jay Meri-
wether spoke to the chapter June 17.
John and Meriwether discussed the May
campus unrest, and Tyler reported on the
status of the annual alumni fund, par-
ticularly as it related to the outstanding
record made by alumni in the Charlotte
region. New officers for the coming year
will include president Harry J. Grim, ’52,
and vice president A. Prescott Rowe, ’60.

NORFOLK. The Tidewater Chapter in
Norfolk held a smoker on May 12, 1970,
at the Lake Wright Motor Lodge. The
guest speaker was Athletic Director Gene
Corrigan. His discussion of the athletic
program, including alumni-manned re-
cruitment of student-athletes, was enthu-
Siastically received.

UPCOMING. Alumni chapter meetings
scheduled during August will be reported
in a later issue of the magazine. These
meetings included:

Cleveland, August 18

Birmingham, August 21

New York, August 26
Any meetings occurring in June or July
that were unreported here will also be
covered in a subsequent issue of the
magazine.

 

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

‘THE

WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’41.

Price: $39.00 f.o0.b.

Gardner, Massachusetts

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
The normal shipping interval is

five to six weeks after the receipt of
the order.

 

 

 

1916

Epwin B. Scuuttz, an All-America W&L
tackle in 1914, was named by Phi Gamma

Delta fraternity to its pre-1920 All-Fiji foot-

ball team.
1920

H. F. MApIson, JR., an active lawyer, is
also vice president of Bastrop Federal Sav-
ings & Loan Association, a member of the
committee on law reform, and president of
Boys State in Louisiana.

Jacksonville attorney JosEPpH M. GLICKSTEIN
was honored at the Florida Bar Convention
in Miami Beach for 50 years of membership
in the legal association. Glickstein is a mem-
ber of the American Bar Association and

Members of the Class of 1920 who were present at the

ee ee en ere tee nn ee eee ee
12: CLASS NOTES

the state and local bar associations. He is g
director of the Barnett First National Bank
of Jacksonville. a trustee of the Jacksonville
Baptist Hospital, and a member of the board
of advisors of the University of North Flori-
da. Glickstein was a member of the gover-
nor’s staff in 1937-39 and in 1949. He was
mayor of the town of Neptune Beach from

1945 to 1947.
1925

George Washington University has conferred
on Dr. HERBERT POLLACK in May the post of
clinical professor emeritus of medicine (bio-
chemistry). Pollack was cited for six years of
service to the department of medicine, for
his enthusiastic teaching of first- and second-
year medical students in human nutrition,

 

ir 50th Reunion in May (I to r) ist
row, Joseph M. Glickstein, Thomas (Mac) Stubbs, Emmett W. Poindexter; 2nd row, William
E. Johnston, Perry D. Howerton, H. Douglas Jones, James R. Lowman; 3rd row, R. Bleakley
James, R. Hence Young. Also present, but not pictured, were Irving M. Lynn, George

S. Mueller, Shirley J. Robbins, and Fred D. Townsend.

 

for his participation in the struggle against
hunger and nutritional deficiency in this
country and abroad, and for his contribu-
tions to the research in life support systems
for the space program. A recognized world
authority in the field of nutrition, Pollack
is the author of over 150 articles. He served
for many years as a consultant to the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration,
to the office of science and technology of the
executive office of the President, to the Sur-
geon General of the Army, and to the in-
terdepartmental committee on nutrition for
national defense.

1928

After living in New York for 40 years,
TuoMas AMBLER WILKINS has retired to his
farm in Amherst County, Va.

After 41 years of teaching, Dr. G. WALDO
DUNNINGTON is retiring as professor of Ger-
man at Northwestern State College of Louisi-
ana. He is currently curator of the Gauss
Archive and Museum in Natchitoches, La.,
and he expects to give Gauss Lectures at
SMU in Dallas during the fall of 1970.

193]

B. J. LAMBERT, JR., has been elected presi-
dent of First State Bank of Crossett, Ark.

ips bs Be

Epwin H. BAcon has been elected a senior
vice president of Marsh & McLennan, Inc.,
international insurance brokers and employee
benefit consultants. Bacon is associate man-
ager of the St. Louis office, in charge of its
production activities.

1934

Following graduation, Mitton L. Harris
spent several years in the real estate busi-
ness in Memphis, Tenn., but then went to
medical school at Vanderbilt University,
where he received his degree. He completed
internship and residency in internal medi-
cine at Baltimore City Hospital and Johns
Hopkins Hospital and, after serving in
World War II, he began private practice in
Baton Rouge, La.

1935

An active CPA, NorMAn S. FITZHUGH, JR., is a
trustee of the Charleston (W.Va.) Foundation
for Research, created by the late Dr. G. B.
Capito, Class of 1899.

N. Joe RAHALL of Beckley, W.Va., is presi-
dent and chairman of the board of Rahall
Communications Corp., which controls radio
and TV stations in Tampa, St Petersburg,
and Beckley, and he is also on the advisory
council for the Small Business Administra-

tion.
1937

RANDOLPH V. L. HALL is currently with Olin
Corp. in New Haven, Conn. For the past
seven years, he has been a research engineer.

1939

Vicror F. RApDcLIFFE of Troy, Mich., is sen-

 

Arthur Thompson, Jr., ’43

ior vice president and general manager of
the Tom Thomas organization.

1941

James R. McCONNELL, group vice president
of the Carborundum Co. of Niagara Falls,
N.Y., has recently graduated from the ad-
vanced management program of the Harvard
Graduate School of Business Administration.
The 13-week program was established to im-
prove executive capability for top manage-
ment decision-making and long-range plan-

ning.
1942

PAUL C. THOMAS, JR., is director of the Coal
Exporters Association of the U:S.

1943

ARTHUR THOMPSON, JR., has been appointed
resident vice president and manager of the
Newark (N.J.) branch office of Fireman's
Fund American Insurance Companies. Prior
to the appointment, Thompson was assistant
branch manager and sales manager at Ne-
wark. He joined Fireman’s Fund in 1946.
Thompson is program chairman and acting
treasurer of the New Jersey Association of
Insurers, on the board of the Newark Red
Cross, and a Boy Scout committeeman.

1944

Dr. Liroyp HoLLincsworTH SMITH, chairman
of the department of medicine at the Uni-
versity of California in San Francisco, has
been elected a fellow in the American Aca-
demy of Arts and Science. The principal ac-
tivity of the Academy is to sponsor inter-
disciplinary study projects on topics of pub-
lic interest. Smith also conducts research
studies concerned with genetic diseases. He
is currently president of the American Soc-
iety for Clinical Investigation, and recorder
of the Association of American Physicians.
Recently, he was appointed by President
Nixon to the President’s Scientific Advisory
Committee.

 

 

CLASS NOTES -13

 

 

 

 

NEED A BOOK?
ANY BOOK: .:

Order it from the
Washington and Lee
Bookstore and save!

e Alumni may purchase
books through the Washing-
ton and Lee University
Bookstore at a discount of
10%, plus postage.

® Mail orders will be filled
promptly. If a book is not
in stock, it will be ordered
and mailed to the purchaser
from the store.

@ The Bookstore will at-
tempt to locate out-of-print
books and keep the cus-
tomer informed of the pro-
eress of the search.

@ When placing a mail
order, an alumnus should
note his class date after his
signature.

Some books are to be tasted,
others to be swallowed, and
some few to be chewed and di-
gested.

— BACON

@ Whether your taste in
books is light or heavy,
the University Bookstore is
ready to help you reduce the
cost of your reading diet.

Send your order directly to:

Manager, The Bookstore

Washington and Lee
University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

14: CLASS NOTES

 

SALE

NO LIBRARY
IS COMPLETE

without a

WkL ALUMNI
DIRECTORY

1964 edition

The remaining copies of the 1964
Washington and Lee Directory are
available on a first-come basis at
$3.00 per copy including postage.
Return this form or write Executive
Secretary, Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia
24450.

Please senG......... copy(ies) of 1964
Alumni Directory.

My: cite for 9.....-......05,., ($3.00
ea. including postage) is enclosed,
made payable to “Washington &
Lee Alumni, Inc.”

 

 

 

Name Class
Address
City State Zip

 

 

 

 

1947

Dr. JAMES H. SAMMONS was elected presi-
dent-elect of the Texas Medical Association
at the organization’s 103rd annual meeting
on May 3 in Austin, Tex. Long active in
medical society affairs at the local, state,
and national levels, Sammons will assume
the presidency of the association in May,
1971. He has been president of the East Har-
ris County Medical Society, vice president
and executive board member of the Harris
County Medical Society, president and chair-
man of the board of the Houston Academy
of Medicine, and chairman of the Texas
Medical Association’s board of councilors.

1950

ARTHUR A. BIRNEY, a practicing attorney in
Washington, D.C., is president and director
of the Washington Brick & Terra Cotta Co.
He is also president of the Wood Acres
Citizen Association.

Dr. James H. Sammons, ’47

At its 86th annual convention in Ft. Worth
on May 4, the Texas Bankers Association
elected Tom C. Frost, JR., president of the
Frost National Bank, as its new president
for the coming year. Frost joined the Frost
National Bank in 1950. He has been presi-
dent since 1962 and also serves as chairman
of the board of the Frost Realty Corp. He is
a director of D. Ansley Co., Inc., mortgage
bankers. Active in various civic, business,
and professional organizations, Frost is a di-
rector of the San Antonio Bank, the Federal
Reserve Bank, the Association of Reserve
City Bankers, and the Farah Manufacturing
Co. He is also a trustee of the San Antonio
Medical Foundation, the Texas Military In-
stitute, and the Southwest Texas Methodist

Hospital.
1953

After 10 years with Merrill, Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner, & Smith, CHESTER T. SMITH, JR., has
joined Laird, Inc. as a vice president and di-
rector. He resides in Darien, Conn., where
he has just been chairman of the United
Fund campaign.

Spring Mills, Inc. of Fort Hills, S.C., has
announced the appointment of THomas L.
MAKER as sales manager of Pequot Products.
Maker joined the firm in December, 1969
as a product manager for sheets and pillow-
cases. He was previously associated with Bea-
con Manufacturing Co. as product manager
of its blanket division.

ELLIs B. (SPIKE) SCHULIST is a vice president
with the Continental Bank of Cleveland,

Ohio.
1954

GLENN ALLEN SCOTT, associate editor of the
Virginian-Pilot of Norfolk, Va., and a lieu-
tenant in the U.S. Naval Reserve, has com-
pleted the defense strategy seminar while on
active duty at the War College in Washing-
ton, D.C.

 

 

Tom C. Frost, Jr., ’50

W. R. CARRINGTON JONES, a real estate man
in Memphis, Tenn., was named Realtor-of-
the-Year by the Memphis Board of Realtors.
Jones served as secretary-treasurer of the
board in 1961 and was its first president
in 1966. He is the immediate past president.

Last summer, Roy T. MATTHEWS was coor-
dinator and teacher in the department of
humanities at the London Summer Program
of Bedford College in London. During the
academic year of 1969-70, he was on a joint
appointment with Justin Morrill College,
one of the three experimental residential
colleges of Michigan State University.

RALPH S. PARK, JR., was recently elected
chief of medicine at the Arnot-Ogden Hospi-
tal in Elmira, N.Y.

1955

J. HaArpin Marion has been presented the
distinguished service award as Outstanding
Young Man-of-the-Year by the Towson, Md.,
Jaycees.

After six years at the University of London,
WILLIAM H. BaArtscH received his Ph.D. at
the School of Oriental and African Studies
in June. He is currently working as a man-
power planning economist in the interna-
tional labour office in Geneva, Switzerland.

Davip A. WOUTERS is currently assistant to
the vice president of Coca Cola Co., Ltd. in
Toyko, Japan.

1956

MARRIED: WIi.11AM T. M. Grice to Martha
Whitfield Livadahl on April 18 in Washing-
ton, D.C.

In September, RUPPERT CHISHOLM will enter
the department of organization and admini-
stration at Case Western Reserve in Cleve-
land, Ohio to work towards his doctorate in
organizational behavior.

 

 

 

 

 

 

RicHARD M. JoHNsTON has been named vice
president for investments of the Hillman
Co., a Pittsburgh-based investment holding
company. In 1959, Johnston joined the in-
yestment research department of Mellon
National Bank in Pittsburgh. Three years
later, he became assistant to the vice presi-
dent for investments of the Hillman or-
ganization, the position he held until Janu-
ary, 1965, when he became assistant to Mr.
Hillman. Active in professional affairs,
Johnston is a member of the Pittsburgh
Financial Analysts Society.

1957

Rev. Rosert D. MILLER, pastor of the Lake-
view Presbyterian Church of St. Petersburg,
Fla., has been selected by the Union Theolo-
gical Seminary in Virginia to receive a grant
for study under the Parish Ministers Fellow-
ship Program. The program is intended to
assist parish ministers to develop specific
abilities for tasks they believe will give focus
to their ministry. Miller plans to study at
the Institute for Advanced Pastoral Studies
in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

Douc.as K. Friru is the current president of
the Martinsville-Henry County (Va.) Bar As-
sociation and vice president of the 5th Dis-
trict of Virginia Trial Lawyers Association.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. E. M. GEORGE, a son,
David Andrew, on April 21.

STEPHEN BERG has been named vice president
of Jay DeBow & Partners, Inc., a public re-
lations firm in New York. He has been with
the organization for two years. Prior to
joining the company, he was associated with
the Freeport Sulphur Co. of New York City.

DonaALp A. MILLER, manager of the Orange
County Airport office of the United Califor-
nia Bank, has recently been elected vice
president of the bank

  

Richard M. Johnston, ’56

 

1959

DONALD W. SIGMUND has been named by the
United States Life Insurance Co. to its All-
Star Honor Holl, accorded for his outstand-
ing performance and service during 1969.

Following graduation, Puitip A. INSLEY, jr.
received his medical degree from the Uni-
versity of Maryland School of Medicine.
After interning at the Grady Memorial Hos-
pital in Atlanta, he did his general surgical
residency at the University of Maryland
Hospital in Baltimore. Entering the Navy,
Insley served as ship’s surgeon aboard the
USS Hancock and also on the staff of the
Naval Hospital in Jackonsville, Fla. He is
currently practicing in Salisbury, Md.

Joun H. EsperiaAn returned from Puerto
Rico in July to become assistant headmaster
of Saddle River (N.J.) Day School.

Joun D. Bassett, III, vice president and di-
rector of Bassett Furniture Industries in
Bassett, Va., has been named a trustee of
Roanoke College. He is also a director of the
First National Bank of Bassett; the Bassett
Mirror Co.; the Vaughan-Bassett Furniture
Co. in Galax; the Prestige Furniture Corp.
in Newton, N.C.; and the Bassett-Walker
Knitting Co. The new college officer is also
a trustee of the Bassett Public Library, the
W. M. Bassett Community Center, and the
Bassett Recreation Center.

1960

Dr. Epwarp F. Goon is a resident in neuro-
logy at the University of Miami School of

Medicine.
1961

STEPHEN I. DANZANSKY is general counsel and
operations coordinator of the White House
Conference on Children and Youth.

WILLIAM B. MCWILLIAMS, assistant vice presi-
dent of Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. in
Asheville, N.C., continues his outstanding

 

John D. Bassett, III, ’59

CLASS NOTES 15

tennis record. He recently won the Asheville
City Open ‘Tournament, and he is also
champion of the Asheville Country Club.

1962

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. ROBERT P. CARROLL,
Jr., a daughter, Kathleen Alice, on June 5.
Carroll is practicing medicine in Covington,
Va.

F. THORNS CRAVEN, an attorney in Winston-
Salem, N.C.. has been named director of the
Legal Aid Society of Forsyth County.

As assistant vice president of international
banking for the First National City Bank of
New York, W. L. RosBerts has been assigned
to the supervisory staff for the Middle East,
Pakistan, and Afghanistan. He will be locat-
ed in Bahrain in the Persian Gulf.

1963
BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES WARD REy-
NOLDS, a daughter, Alyson Ann, on May 12.
Reynolds is with the Honeywell Radiation
Center in Boston, Mass.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. KEN C. KOWALSKI, a
son, Scott Windle, on Feb. 22. Kowalski has
been appointed assistant principal at George
Washington High School in Alexandria, Va.

After receiving a Ph.D. from the University
of Toronto in 1969, PHILIP REIDFORD is now
an assistant professor of education at UCLA.

Currently serving with the U.S. Army, Dr.
J. BRANTLEY SyDNoR is a surgeon at the 85th
Evacuation Hospital at Phu Bai, Vietnam.

1964
MARRIED: Joun F. Lackey to Kathleen
Friend on May 30 in Georgetown, Ky.
Among the groomsmen were G. MURRAY
SMITH, JR., 39, BRIAN Dorsk, °64, BUCKNER
WOODFARD, JR., 66, and CLYDE FOSHEE, ‘66.
Lackey is city prosecutor of Richmond, Ky.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN Y. PEARSON, JR.,
a daughter, Ellen Bell, on March 22. Pearson
is in his third year of law studies at the
University of Virginia.

Since receiving his law degree from the Uni-
versity of Virginia, JoHN D. Eure, Jr., has
served with the U.S. Marine Corps. A cap-
tain, he is the military judge for special
court martials at Parris Island, S.C. Eure
plans to enter private practice in Suffolk
upon discharge from the service.

DonaLp B. McFALt has become an Assistant
U.S. Attorney for the southern district of
Texas. He is headquartered in Houston.

1965

After graduating from George Washington
University Medical School, Dr. Brooks G.
Brown, III, did an internship at the Cleve-
land Clinic Hospital until June, 1970. In

July, 1970, he began residency in ophthal-

mology at the Washington Hospital Center
in Washington. D.C. ,

DoNALD W. HUFFMAN. executive vice presi-
dent of John Norman, Inc., of Roanoke, Va.,

has been appointed U.S. Commissioner.
Huffman is president of Downtown Roanoke,
Inc. and is currently serving on the gover-
nor’s advisory committee on urban affairs.

1966

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ANDERSON D. SMITH, a
daughter, Nancy Taylor, on April 14. Smith
expects to receive his Ph.D. from the Uni-
versity of Virginia this summer and will be-
come an assistant professor of psychology at
Georgia Tech in the fall.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES N. BENSINGER,
JR., a son, Charles N., III, on March 12.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. S. JOSEPH CHESNUT,
III, a son, Samuel J., IV, on May 10.

Roy A. TyYLer, an attorney in Evansville,
Ind., has been appointed legal advisor to the
Evansville police department.

JEFFREY SHEEHAN, an attorney in Las Vegas,
Nev., has been named a director of the
Board of Clark County Association for Men-
tal Health.

Air Force captain Bruce W. River has been
decorated with the Bronze Star at Shaw AFB
for meritorious service while engaged in
military operations against the Viet Cong
forces. Rider distinguished himself as an in-
telligence officer with the Tactical Air Sup-
port Group, Bien Hoa, Vietnam. He is now
at Shaw, which is part of the Tactical Air
Command that provides combat units for
air support of U.S. ground forces.

1967

MARRIED: Epwarp ELLETT BATES, JR., to
Laura Helen Rassman, daughter of Emil C.
Rassman, *41, on August 28, 1969 in Mid-
land, Tex. Among the groomsmen were BEN-
JAMIN S. GAMBILL, ’67, CHARLES RICKENBRODE
CuHITUM, ’69, JAMES NEAL RASSMAN, ’71, and
JosEPpH MarTIN, ’72. Bates is currently at-
tending the University of Georgia School of
Law in Athens, Ga.

JouHN CARD McMurray, a second-year student
at the University of Oklahoma College of
Law, won the annual Oklahoma Law Day
Moot Court Competition, heard before the
State Supreme Court in April, 1970.

1968

MARRIED: Jovy KLINE to Elizabeth Wells
on April 11 in Frederick, Md. Among the
groomsmen were ALLEN CRAIG, ’68 ,and RICK
ARMSTRONG, ’70.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH W. BROWN, a
son, Joseph Wentling Tyree, on April 23 in
Las Vegas, Nev., where Brown practices law.

Gus BIDDLE, a recent graduate of the Whar-
ton Business School, is now with Firestone
Tire & Rubber Co. in Akron, Ohio. After a
year, he expects to be assigned to the com-
pany’s office in Kenya, Africa.

BILL WAHL, a member of the Arizona bar,
is working for the Arizona Industrial Com-
mission.

Davin W. GOLDMAN has moved to Sumter,
S.C., where he is associated with the law
firm of Bryan, Bahnmuller, & King.

After receiving a master’s degree in indust-
rial engineering from VPI, RoBerT A. Cas-
HILL is now employed as operations analyst
for Humble Oil & Refining Co. of Pelham,

N.Y.
1969

STANLEY E. ZIMMERMAN, JR., is a Navy en-
sign, serving as operation officer aboard the
minesweeper USS Dominant in the Medi-
terranean.

IN MEMORIAM

1909

Robert Hoop CHATHAM, a former employee
of the U.S. Rubber Co., died May 24 in
Aledo, Tex.

GuyTE P. McCorb, prominent in public af-
fairs of Tallahassee, Fla., for more than half
a centuury, died May 1. He was a retired
clerk of the Florida Supreme Court and was
recognized as the founder of Tallahassee’s
commission-manager form of government.
He served as mayor under the old alder-
manic system, and he was the first mayor
under the present system. McCord lived in
Tallahassee for more than 70 years. He was
one of the state’s outstanding lawyers when
he became clerk of the Supreme Court in
1939. For a time, he was associated in prac-
tice with former Gov. Leroy Collins. He re-
tired in September, 1964, holding a tenure
unequaled in the history of the court. An
editorial appearing in the Tallahassee De-
mocrat stated: “His civic works did not be-
gin nor stop with official positions. You can
hardly name a worthy activity in which he
did not participate—athletics as a youth,
town betterment, preservation of our natural
and historic attractions, church and scout
work, club and association activities.”

191]

J. EARLE DRUMMOND, former head of the
science department and professor of biology
at West Liberty State College in West Vir-
ginia, died Jan. 24.

1912

EDGAR ANDERSON CHARLTON, retired superin-
tendent of public welfare for Buckingham
County (Va.), died in Richmond on May g.

1917

MARSHALL GORDON TWwyYMAN, a prominent at-
torney in Miami, Fla., died Aug. 8. 1969. A
decorated veteran of World War I, ‘Twyman
was admitted to the Florida bar in 1923.

ROBERT BRUCE MorRISON, senior member of
Morrison & Agnor Insurance Agency, a for-
mer Rockbridge County (Va.) sheriff, and
past president of the Rockbridge National
Bank, died in Lexington on June 24. Morri-

son was appointed by President Johnson to
serve on the Assay Commission in Philadel-
phia in 1964. He was an officer in the Ameri-
can Legion for 40 years, secretary of the
Rockbridge County Democratic Committee,
secretary of the Rockbridge County School
Board, master of Masonic Lodge 67, presi-
dent of the Lexington Kiwanis Club, and
superintendent of the Oxford Sunday School.
During World War I, he received the Croix
de Guerre Medal for service in the ambu-
lance corp unit.

ROBERT GLENN CRAIG, M.D., died Feb. 20 in
San Francisco. He was a nationally distin-
guished gynecologist and served in the 1950’s
as president of the American College of Ob-
stetricians and Gynecologists. After gradua-
tion from Washington and Lee in 1917, he
taught at Marion Military Institute, and
was then in the School of Medicine at Johns
Hopkins University from 1918 until his
graduation in 1922. After serving on the
Johns Hopkins medical staff and spending
some time in study and travel in Europe
and Asia, he began practicing medicine in
San Francisco in 1928 as a surgeon and gyn-
ecologist. For many years he was clinical
professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the
University of California, becoming emeritus
in 1963. He was awarded the Doctor of Sci-
ence degree at Washington and Lee in June,
1958. Craig was an active member of the
Olympic Club of San Francisco, the San
Francisco Symphony Foundation, the Ameri-
can College of Surgeons, the American Medi-
cal Association, the Commonwealth Club of
California, Phi Delta Theta, and Nu Sigma
Nu medical fraternity, and others.

1926

RUSSELL BIssSELL GiBson died in Harrisburg,
Pa., on Sept. 30, 1969. For many years, Gib-
son was associated with his brother in the
automobile business in Mansfield, Ohio. He
lived in Harrisburg for the last 12 years,
where he was a salesman for the Harrisburg
Truck Body Co.

1931

Dr. HAROLD CHARLES HARRISON, professor of
chemistry at the University of Rhode Is-
land, died April 27. Harrison was chief
chemist and spectroscopist at Oregon State's
department of geology and mineral indus-
tries. During World War II, he was head of
a research group of the Polaroid Corp. in

Boston.
1943

WILLIAM L. DuGGER, JR., a prominent oil
man from San Antonio, Tex.. died Aug. 8,

1969.
1954

JouN Francis PECK, JR., a former employee of
the B. B. Martin Co. of Lancaster, Pa., died

June 10.
1957

DANA C. Curtis, JR., of Istanbul, Turkey,
formerly associated with his father in the
appliance business in Memphis, Tenn., was
killed in a traffic accident in Adana, Turkey
on May 149.

ee
16: CLASS NOTES

a

 

 

It is the historian’s work at its very
Pet an accurate record of the
struggles of a great university, show-
ing how far the beginnings, how difh-
cult the road, how worthy the pro-
duct. —Richmond News-Leader

a is a good history... . Dr. Cren-
shaw writes well about an institution
for which he obviously has a deep
affection.

—Chattanooga News-Free Press

No similar efforts which come to
mind, including Morison on Har-
vard, certain centennial and _ bicen-

tennial products, and more modern
studies, surpass its merits as the story
of an educational institution.

—Petersburg Progress-Index

This book has deep meaning
for everyone who has shared the
Washington and Lee experience.

For all, it is an important
record of the development of one
of the nation’s great institutions.

Be sure to obtain a first edition copy.

Fill in and mail the attached

order form today.

THE RISE AND GROWTH
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

by Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw
Professor of History

Published by Random House,
New York

Price: $10.00

This book may have come as a bless-
ing to revive the great spirit of
Washington and Lee. There has never
been more to be proud of on the Lex-
ington campus—the book makes this

clear. —Charleston News and Courier

The account is concise, yet rich in de-
tail, with frequent touches of subtle
humor. ... [he excellence of tis
volume fully justifies the enthusiasm
with which it has already been re-

ceived. —Lexington News-Gazette

A pleasing, witty style and excellent
use of quotations enliven the book;
descriptions of student activities and
vignettes of important persons are
particularly interesting.

—The Journal of Southern History

 

The history of the college is intricately
related to the history of the country
itself, its prosperity, wars, depressions,
changes in attitudes and in manners.
Consequently, General Lee’s College
is a volume that will interest both
friends of the college and those read-
ers who are interested in Southern
and American history.

—Richmond Times-Dispatch

Alumni of Washington and Lee will
appreciate General Lee’s College
most. It will give pleasure and fur-
nish important insights to all who
appreciate the heritage of our state,
region, and nation as well as the es-
sential role of higher education in
our efforts to cope with this time of

turmoil. —Roanoke Times

ORDER FORM

THE BOOKSTORE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me

copy(ies) of General Lee’s College by Dr. Ollinger

Crenshaw, at $10.00 each. (Include 75 cents handling charges for each copy

purchased).

 

Name

 

Address

 

Payment of $

is enclosed.

Zip Code

WASHINGTON & LEE ALUMNUS

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

 

