4 { LEhnineyrd
: LIBRARY OF

ZT y. Jao. a A} : ' '
a WASHINGTON-& LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA. APRIL 1970

CU 4

 

 

 

 

 

 

f
\ LAA f Utila“
& @* gg

wat

 . LiGKARY OF

en Sia es rege
pot a 7 Dimes He
oe 3 5 = 4
Peon § §

: ual

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNUS

VOLUME 45 NUMBER 2 APRIL 1970

CONTENTS

. The National Scene |
2. Troubs in London ~

_

4. Campus News _
14. Tax Reform Provisions
16. Athletics pe
20. People

25. Alumni —

27. Class Notes

COVER

Its followers say that lacrosse is the fastest growing
sport in the United States, and it is certainly true that the
game is catching on quickly at Washington and Lee. On
June 13, the Lexington area will have an opportunity to
see perhaps the best game of the year, for on that oc-
casion the 29th annual North-South classic is coming to
town. For a complete report on the game, and a brief
glance at lacrosse at the University, see page 18.

EDITOR: William C. Washburn, ’40
MANAGING EDITOR: Romulus T. Weatherman

ASSOCIATE EDITOR AND PHOTOGRAPHER:
A. Michael Philipps, ’64

EDITORIAL ASSISTANT: Mrs. Joyce Carter

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC::
Fred Bartenstein, Jr., ’41, President

John M. Jones, III, ’37, Vice-President
William C. Washburn, ’40, Secretary

Charles F. Clarke, Jr., ’38, Treasurer

BOARD OF DIRECTORS: Fred Bartenstein, Jr., “41;
Upton Beall, ’51; Joe F. Bear, *83- Charles F. Clarke, Jr.,
'38: A. Christian Compton, ’50; Warren H. Edwards, 39;
John M. Jones, III, 37; S. L. Kopald, Jr., 43; Edward
H. Ould, ’29; Emil L. Rassman, ’41; Beauregard A.
Redmond, ’55; Richard H. Turrell, ’49.

Published in February, April, June, August, October, and
December by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms
3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage paid at
Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing privileges
at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP as required by Act of Con-
gress of Aug. 24, 1912, as amended ay the Acts of March 3,
1938, July 2, 1946 and June 11, 1960: The Washington and Lee
Alumnus is owned by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., and is entered as second class matter at the Post
Office in Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001. William C. Washburn
is editor and business manager. His address is Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450. There are no
bond, mortgage, or other security holders. The average num-
ber i. Co le of each issue during the 12 preceding months
was 12,500.

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA.

Twice within less than a month, tragedy paid cruel
visits to Washington and Lee. On Feb. 22, Prof. Bill

Chaffin and one of his leading debaters, Kevin Baker,

were killed in an automobile accident as they were re-
turning from a debate tournament in New Hampshire.
Twenty-five days later, on Mar. 19, Prof. Ollinger Cren-
shaw died unexpectedly in his sleep. These deaths pro-
duced pain difficult to bear.

The bereavement of the Washington and Lee com-
munity was intensified by several circumstances. ‘The loss
of a young life of the potential of Mr. Baker's was most
saddening. And there was the fact that the two professors
—one approaching the bright noon of a promising career
and the other basking in the glowing sunset of a life of
noble achievement—were devoted friends. Ollinger Cren-
shaw regarded Bill Chaffin almost as a son, and Bill ac-
corded Ollie the respect and affection which distinguish
genuine friendship between younger and older men. Prof.
Chaffin’s death grieved Dr. Crenshaw more perhaps than
anyone will ever know.

Remembrances of Prof. Chaffin and Prof. Crenshaw
appear elsewhere in this issue of the Alumnus. We merely
wish to suggest here that the measure of such losses is
often the measure of strength.

Certainly the losses are great. Good and true men will
carry on the work of Profs. Chaffin and Crenshaw. But as
personalities they can never be replaced. Prof. Chaffin
exhibited a seemingly boundless energy which he spent
unsparingly in his work as a teacher of speech and coach
of debate. He strove for excellence and achieved it. Dr.
Crenshaw was the complete teacher and scholar. One
needs only to read Dr. Crenshaw’s history of Washington
and Lee, General Lee’s College, to understand the pro-
fundity of his scholarship, the agility of his wit, and the
depth of his devotion to Washington and Lee.

In short, Prof. Chaffin and Prof. Crenshaw possessed
and shared in abundance those qualities that have made
Washington and Lee distinctive over the years—personal
dedication to learning free of sham and pedantry, to
human decency, to honor among men.

Other people drew strength from them; Washington
and Lee drew strength from them. And it is upon the
realization that these sources of strength are lost that one
discerns fully how rare and how enduring such strength
really is.

 

 

 

THE NATIONAL SCENE

Reporting on civil rights . . . tuition

hikes... forecasts of disruption ...

dissent and justice ... educators and politics

Prepared by Editorial Projects for Education

TuRNING Point? Over the past two years, the federal gov-
ernment increasingly put pressure on individual colleges
and state college systems to end racial bias and provide
greater opportunities for minority groups. But then: The
top civil rights official in the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare resigned under fire. Congress
showed a strong inclination to strip the department of its
major administrative weapons against segregation. Vice-
President Agnew denounced racial quotas and “open ad-
missions” in higher education. Suddenly there was much
uncertainty about how vigorously the Administration
would enforce the Civil Rights Act of 1964 on the na-
tion’s campuses.

‘UNIVERSAL AccEss’. Everyone with a fair chance of aca-
demic success ought to be able to go to college if he wants
to, says the prestigious Carnegie Commission on Higher
Education. “Inequality of opportunity must not continue
to sap the strength of our nation,” the commission asserts
in a special report. It calls for “universal access” to higher
education and sets a deadline: 1976.

Risinc Tuition. The pressure of inflation on education
costs is forcing many colleges and universities, public and
private, to raise tuition once again. “We must plan on
regular annual increases in student charges over the fore-
seeable future,” says an administrator in the Ivy League,
where tuitions are heading for $2,500 and more a year.

RESEARCH First. President Nixon wants to be sure educa-
tion programs work before he seeks large outlays of new
funds. He has proposed a National Institute of Education

“as a focus for educational research and experimenta-
tion.”

TROuBLED ScIENCE. American science needs a lot more
money to escape mediocrity, warns the National Science
Board. It says that a lack of funds, especially from the
federal government, is making it difficult for scientists to
“respond to new ideas and new opportunities.”

TURBULENCE AHEAD. Amid increasing reports of renewed
violence on a number of campuses, many college educa-
tors sense that the 1970's will be no less disruptive than
the previous decade. “The peak of activism has not yet

rEATURE 1

been reached,” one university administrator told col-
leagues at a national conference. Others agreed. They
said they expected urgent social problems to involve their
institutions more deeply in off-campus affairs. Conversa-
tions also turned to such issues as the effect of open-
admission policies on higher education, the financial
plight of institutions, and changes in campus governance
and the academic job market.

Campus Dissent. Colleges and universities have to main-
tain order; they cannot tolerate “the number and kinds
of disruptions that have become commonplace.” In mak-
ing that observation, however, a special panel of attorneys
and academic leaders also cautioned that “there is a risk
that certain efforts to maintain order may themselves be
excessive and may indirectly contribute to disruptions.”
Institutions should seek “order with justice,” said the
panel, a commission of the American Bar Association,
and guarantee their students the right to dissent.

RECRUITING SLOWwpowN. Business firms are not looking
for as many new college graduates as they used to. After
a decade of expanding job opportunities, reports the Col-
lege Placement Council, industry has reduced its campus
recruiting this year by 16 per cent for bachelor’s degree
candidates, 26 per cent for master’s degree candidates, |
and 14 per cent for Ph.D. candidates.

PRIVATE Support. Corporations gave $340-million to edu-
cation in 1968, the Council for Financial Aid to Educa-
tion estimated after a survey of 795 companies. Contribu-
tions were 13.3 per cent higher than those of 1966, al-
though the rate of increase showed a decline. Still, said
the council, “there has been no lessening of the business
community’s commitment to underwrite an important
share of the voluntary support of higher education.”

CAMPAIGN Fever. “We who have been in higher educa-
tion have a feeling for... why there is such a degree of
impatience among many in the country,” says Edwin D.
Etherington. He has decided to give up the presidency of
Wesleyan University and seek the Republican nomina-
tion for U.S. Senator in Connecticut. Other college ad-
ministrators and faculty members in several states also are
seeking political office this spring.

“TEACH-IN’ Time. As a focus for their concern over en-
vironmental problems, students have turned to the tech-
nique of the “‘teach-in,” which anti-war groups first used
with great effect in 1965. Plans for a nationwide series of
seminars, speeches, and demonstrations on a single day
this April involved hundreds of campuses across the
country. Ihe man who first proposed the environmental
teach-in, Sen. Gaylord Nelson of Wisconsin, saw _ it
developing into a “massive movement” to improve the
quality of life in America.

 

 

 

 

 

 

FEATURE 3

re

 

 

 

ALM

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

—-——- —— epeeninenes —_~
peewee Ve =

 

 

 

 

y

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Court Theater; Peter Gill, the director whose produc-
tion of D. H. Lawrence’s plays was a major event in
British theatrical history; and Martin Esslin, the author
of The Theater of the Absurd. These artists lecture and
: supervise improvisations and sessions on _ directing,
speech, and interpretation.
Later in the day, the group may investigate a historic
site somewhere in London or the surrounding country—
the Tower of London, Hatfield House, Southwark Ca-
thedral—or visit museums and galleries such as the Vic-
toria and Albert Museum with its delightful collection of
) fine arts, the British Museum, and the National Portrait
, Gallery.

The day also includes time for shopping or touring
the area surrounding Northampton Hall, the part of the
, City University of London where the group stays. Locat-
ed within walking distance of the Hall are the old Roman
| city wall, still preserved, the graves of Blake, Bunyan,
} and Defoe, the Bank of England, and St. Paul’s Cathed-
ral. Milton wrote Paradise Lost on the street where the
| Hall now stands.

At night, the seminar members go to the theater.
London has a tremendous range of productions, vary-
ing widely in type and style. Last year’s group saw a pro-

 

 

duction of Over Gardens Out, an experimental play by
Peter Gill in a tiny room in the attic of the Royal Court
Theater called ‘The Open Space. At the other extreme,
the Royal Shakespeare Company operates two large
theaters, one in London and one at Stratford-on-Avon.
The seminar participants have seen Royal Shakespeare
Company productions of The Winters Tale and King
Lear at Stratford, and Troilius and Cressida, Much Ado
About Nothing, and Harold Pinter’s two one-act plays
Landscape and Silence.

Indeed, the tour ranges through the periods of drama:
from Seneca’s Oedipus, directed by Peter Brook of the
English and United States productions of Marat-Sade,
and featuring John Gielgud; through the Restoration,
including Tom Courtney in Goldsmith’s She Stoops to
Conquer, and Congreve’s The Double Dealer; through
Bertolt Brecht’s Arturo Ui (also a 1970 Troubadour pro-
duction at Washington and Lee); through Charles Maro-
witz’s experimental refashioning of Hamlet. And, in ad-
dition, lecturers talk about the styles before the group
sees the representative plays.

In sum, the British Theater Seminar is, in many re-
spects, for the Washington and Lee students who par-
ticipate a kind of drama in itself.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4. FEATURE

The Girls—They Came, They Saw, They Conquered;
And It’s Quite Possible They'll Be Here For Good

The miniskirts came to General Lee’s
College the second week of February.

Some personal beliefs, biases, and pre-
judices may have been shaken by the ex-
perience, but at week’s end the Colon-
nade, Old George, and Lee Chapel were
still standing steady, and life resumed in
pretty much the old style.

Coeducation Week at Washington and
Lee was to some a lark, to others a dark
foreboding. It was the feminine point of
view and logic in the classroom, lively
male-female tete-a-tetes over coffee at the
Co-op or a draft at the University Center,
self-conscious small-talk before dinners in
honor of the coeds at the fraternity
houses, voluntary intellectual seminars
in the afternoons attended well by the
women, not as well by men, evening ad-
dresses by the likes of Ramsey Clark and
Robert Goralski attended well by all. It
was a taste of springtime during an other-
wise dreary February. It was the talk of
the town. Even traditionalists opposed to
coeducation could scarcely deny that Co-
education Week enlivened the environs.

Approximately 120 young women
from Mary Baldwin, Hollins, Sweet Briar,
and Randolph-Macon Woman's College
became Washington and Lee students for
a week as part of the 6th annual CON-
TACT program sponsored by Washing-
ton and Lee students through the Inter-
fraternity Council.

Under the dynamic chairmanship of
Larry Honig, a senior from Houston,
Tex., the CONTACT Committee spon-
sored Washington and Lee’s first Coed
Week in addition to a program of out-
side speakers that was undiminished from
the high quality of CONTACT sym-
posia of other years. Speeches and semi-
nars centered around the general theme
of modern communications problems.

There was Ramsey Clark, former U.S.
Attorney General, declaring that the prob-
lem of crime “is demonstratively and di-
rectly related to poverty, ignorance, un-
employment, and poor health,” and will
not be solved by ‘“‘preachments” of law
and order.

There were Harold Hayes, editor of
Esquire magazine, a popular publication
with the Now Generation, and William
A. Rusher, publisher of National Review,
a leading journal of conservative opinion,
engaging in discussion and heated debate.

There was Robert Goralski, NBC news

correspondent, agreeing with Vice Presi-
dent Spiro Agnew that television news
coverage has its shortcomings, but dis-
agreeing profoundly with the Vice Presi-
dent on what those failings are. (“Unlike
Spiro Agnew, I don’t think we're being
interpretive or analytical enough.’’)
There were other stimulating speak-
ers from the campus community and
state news media, but pervading all was
Week. Pink
handbills posted copiously on trees and
bulletin boards told the story with in-
tentionally ungrammatical zest—““THE
GIRLS IS COMING!” The girls — or

Coeducation and yellow

women as many young ladies prefer to
be called today—did indeed come. They
came, they saw, they conquered. At least
they conquered the hearts of the editorial
writers of the Tuesday and Friday Ring-
tum Phi’s.

Tuesday’s edition was the most en-
thusiastic of the two: “We. seriously
challenge anyone who can still be op-
posed to coeducation for Washington and
Lee. True, the women were only here for
five short days. But look back at those
five days when coeducation was on trial.
The week was marked by pleasant, or-
derly, intellectual, and rewarding camp-
us activity. But, more important, there
was a real and natural atmosphere cir-
culating throughout the campus which

 

Former U.S, Attorney General Ramsey Clark declared that crime is related to poverty,
ignorance, unemployment, and poor health during CONTACT symposium.

 

a

 

was evident in and out of the classroom,
and which refreshingly replaced the stale
odor of superficiality usually encount-
ered.”

Friday’s edition restrained its enthus-
iasm by noting that one week was not
enough time for everything to settle down
to a normal routine; therefore, the week
was not a full test of coeducation. The
campus assumed an air of “artificiality,”
the paper said, adding: “Class attend-
ance has increased, and everybody seems
to be dressing a lot better than is nor-
mally the case.”

(In fact, some student-watchers wryly
suggested, after surveying the sudden
blossoming of coats and ties for Coed
Week, that the University could end one
tradition, all-male enrollment, to salvage
another, the coat-and-tie tradition, which
to the regret of many is no longer uni-
versally upheld.)

However, Friday’s edition concluded
that “the contribution some classes have
received due to the presence of women in
them convinces us that the experiment as
a means to test coeducation is not totally
invalid and indeed seems to indicate that
there are advantages accruing to the
idea.”

A sampling of opinion among the
coeds-for-a-week turned up considerable
enthusiasm over the experience, though
not all women were sure they would pre-
fer coeducation as an always thing.

Marianne Vincent, a 21-year-old Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman’s College student
and correspondent for the Richmond
News Leader, evaluated the strong and
weak points of Coed Week:

“Probably the element that hurt the
program most was time (lack of it),” she
commented. “By the end of the week, we
began to notice a marked change in the
attitude of the boys. They began to treat
us as students, not as social objects.

“Coeducation at Washington and Lee,
I believe, would be more successful on a
semester basis. Girls would have a chance
to be fully integrated into the classes
where they would be working as students
rather than as guests.

“I felt some traditional opposition to
the concept of coeducation this week. I’m
not sure what the basis of it was, except
possibly the attitude that competition in
classes with females is not good. But once
we got them to accept us as students and
convinced them that we were not here to
make social contacts, the change was re-
markable. I believe the majority of girls

came here for an educational experience.”

Miss Vincent and some other sources
indicated a few girls packed and left dur-
ing the early part of the week, disgusted
with life at Washington and Lee—during
Coed Week, at least. “But,” Miss Vincent
added, “the girls who left during the first
part of the week missed the best part.
After initial adjustment, the week went
well.

“Probably the most rewarding experi-
ence other than the classes was finding
yourself talking to male students about
things you care about, and not worrying
about names, hometowns, majors, or the
other little social games.

“One thing that really bugged me here
is the cut-throat competition between
male students in the classroom. Students
let a classmate hang himself in a class
discussion. We try to help each other at
Randolph-Macon. A major factor here is
possibly the faculty grading system—I
cannot understand the rationale behind
giving Joe Smith an F just because Joe
Doe is getting an A.”

Because of what she saw as fierce com-
petition for grades, Miss Vincent was not
certain that she would prefer a coed en-
vironment to an all-female school.

Donna Shoemaker, a senior English
major at Hollins, said that “generally, it
was a very good experience—a total in-
volvement kind of experience.”

Emphasizing the merits of learning
for learning’s sake rather than for a
grade, Miss Shoemaker said she felt the
opportunity to sample courses in a college
other than her home college, unfettered
temporarily by academic pressures, was
beneficial.

“I’ve been sitting in on as many extra
classes here as possible,” she remarked. “I
believe this kind of experience proves you
don’t have to be in a highly-structured
situation in order to learn.”

Other comments from the distaff side:

“I think it’s great; it’s very stimulating
to have boys to talk to,” said Pam Rod-
ney, a senior from Randolph-Macon.

“I always wanted to go to a girls’ col-
lege,” said Brooke Thomas, a Sweet Briar
junior. “It has a lot to offer and you
don’t have to worry about what you look
like in class.”

“You can do a lot of things at a girls’
school you can’t do at a coed school,” re-
marked Christy Conner, a Hollins sopho-
more.

From W&L students:

“I like it,” freshman Jim Fernald of

CAMPUS.5

Charlottesville, Va., commented. ‘As it
is now it’s a very dull routine. I don’t
know whether it would help or hurt the
school academically, but I think it would
provide a more correct social life.”

“IT thought that girls would be dis-
tracting and I just didn’t want them
around,” said David Allen, a senior from
Pitman, N.J., speaking of his decision to
come to Washington and Lee. ‘As it
turned out, they’re just as distracting
when they’re not here.”

A point made by many of the young
men and women is that little weekend
studying is accomplished at a non-co-
educational school because much of the
weekend is spent traveling to other col-
leges for dates.

One disadvantage of Coed Week was
that it cut down on the lustiness of the
jokes sometimes told by professors to
wake up their all-male classes. In one
case, it may even have altered the course
of an entire lecture.

Stevie Norris of Sweet Briar reported
that in her first class of Coed Week, the
“poor professor” walked in, saw a room
full of females, and declared: ‘‘Well, we
won't talk about fertility today after all.”

“I would have thought it the ideal
situation myself,” she said.

Policy Changes Effected

Students achieved parity on one im-
portant committee at the University and
were given a vote on another in recent
action by the Washington and ‘Lee fac-
ulty.

The faculty altered the composition of
the Student Affairs Committee so that five
students and five faculty members or ad-
ministrators will have voting privileges.
Previously, seven faculty members or ad-
ministrators, and four students had cast
votes.

The Student Affairs Committee has
responsibilities in the general areas of
disciplinary cases, fraternity rules, the
freshman orientation program, policy re-
garding University dances, advising the
dean of students, and assuming jurisdic-
tion over all student affairs not covered
by other committees.

Increased student voting representa-
tion on the committee had been proposed
by the student government.

The actions will become effective in
September.

In addition, the faculty voted to al-
low a student representative on the Fac-

 

 

 

©. CAMPUS

ulty Executive Committee to have a vote
on all its business matters except those
in which the committee is taking interim
action for the faculty as a whole.

In other matters, the faculty:

@ Elected Dr. Edgar Spencer, pro-
fessor of geology, to the Faculty Advisory
Committee, which advises President
Huntley.

@ Voted to permit the department
of religion to offer a major, effective with
the 1970-71 academic year.

Huntley Named To Board

University President Robert Huntley
was one of two men named Feb. 25 to
fill vacancies on the Virginia State Board
of Education.

Also selected to the seven-man board
by Gov. Linwood Holton, a Washington
and Lee graduate, was Preston C, Caruth-
ers, chairman of the Arlington School
Board.

They represented the first appoint-
ments by Gov. Holton to a state board or
commission since he took office in Janu-
ary. Both supported Holton in his cam-
paign for governor last fall.

Huntley, a Republican who was once
a Democrat, will be the fifth president
of an institution of higher learning in
this century to serve on the board.

“I appreciate being given this oppor-
tunity to be of whatever service I can to
public education in Virginia, particularly
since so many decisions that are import-
ant to Virginia’s future are impending in
this field,” Huntley remarked after his
appointment, one that will run for four
years.

At the conclusion of a four-year term,
a member is eligible for reappointment
for one additional term on the board,
which meets monthly and which is re-
sponsible for setting policy for public
education on the elementary and second-
ary levels.

Huntley, 40, is now the youngest
member of the board.

Latest Troub Production

The Resistable Rise of Arturo Ui, a
play seldom performed in this country,
was the most recent presentation of the
Troubadour Theatre at Washington and
Lee.

The two-act play by German-born
playwright Bertolt Brecht was presented
March 24-27.

 

Troubadours rehearse for Arturo Ui presentation—they couldn’t become

emotionally involved with their characters.

The play is ostensibly about the rise
of a small-time gangster in Chicago dur-
ing Prohibition, but is actually about the
rise of Hitler and Nazism in Germany.
Each main character has a parallel in
Nazi Germany, with the central character,
Arturo Ui, corresponding to Hitler.

David Katz, a senior from Chagrin
Falls, Ohio, appeared in the title role.
Other important characters were portray-
ed by Robert Carrere, a sophomore from
New Orleans, La.; Marc Scott, a sopho-
more from Marshall, Va.; David Christo-
vich, a junior from New Orleans; Carr
Garnett, a junior from Charlottesville,
Va.; Hugh Hill, a junior from Roanoke,
Va.; and Mrs. Nan Duvall of Lexing-
ton, wife of Dr. Severn Duvall, head of
the English department at Washington
and Lee.

Brecht was living in Hollywood in
self-imposed exile from Germany when
he wrote the play in 1941. In the play’s
epilogue, Brecht warns the world that
tyranny is not dead.

Lee Kahn, Troubadour Theatre di-
rector and assistant professor of fine arts,
chose the play for production because “It
was a very good exercise for young actors.
The performers cannot become emotion-
ally involved with their characters.” Ac-

cording to Kahn, Brecht’s actors serve ‘‘as
a kind of messenger between the script
and the audience.”

The play was substituted when the
Troubadour Theatre could not secure
the rights to “Hair.” Kahn is hopeful
that the Troubs can get “Hair” for next
year, although he fears that it might be
too “dated” by then.

Academic Appointments

The appointments of four new aca-
demic department chairmen and the re-
tirements of three department heads have
been announced by Dr. William W.
Pusey, III, dean of the College.

Two of the men will chair new de-
partments to be created from the division
of the department of fine arts into the
department of music and drama and the
department of art.

The changes are as follows:

—Effective Sept. 1, Dr. John H. Wise,
49, professor of chemistry, will become
head of the department of chemistry, suc-
ceeding Dr. Esmarch S. Gilreath, 65.

—Professor Marion Junkin, 64, found-
er of Washington and Lee’s department
of fine arts in 1949, will retire as depart-
ment head at the end of the current year.

 

 

—Effective Sept. 1, Robert Stewart, 51,
professor of music and fine arts, will be-
come head of the department of music
and drama. At the same time, Dr. Gerard
M. Doyon, 46, associate professor of fine
arts, will become head of the department
of art.

—Effective Feb. 2, Dr. G. Francis
Drake, 56, professor of romance langu-
ages, will become head of the depart-
ment of romance languages, succeeding
Dr. Linton Lomas Barrett, 65.

Although they are reaching the re-
quired retirement age of 65 for depart-
ment heads, Professors Gilreath, Junkin,
and Barrett will continue to teach at the
University, Dean Pusey noted.

A member of Washington and Lee’s
faculty since 1953, Dr. Wise has been pro-
fessor of chemistry since 1961 and chair-
man of the University’s computer com-
mittee since 1965. In 1959-60, he served as
visiting associate professor at Brown Uni-
versity.

Born in Marysville, Pa., Dr. Wise took
his B.S. degree at Haverford College in
1942 and his Ph.D. at Brown University
in 1947.

From 1943 to 1946, he was a chemist
in the Manhattan Project at Brown Uni-
versity. He taught at Stanford Univer-
sity from 1947 until joining the Wash-
ington and Lee faculty in 1953. He has
published a number of articles in scho-
larly journals, and he was one of the co-
authors of a laboratory manual for a
freshman chemistry course.

Dr. Gilreath, head of the department
of chemistry since September, 1955, has
written five textbooks on chemistry for
national publishing houses. He joined
the Washington and Lee faculty in 1946.

He took his A.B., M.A., and Ph.D. de-
grees in chemistry from the University of
North Carolina. From 1934 to 1942, he
taught at high schools in North Carolina.
Later, he served as an instructor at UNC
and as research chemist at American Enka
Corp. in Enka, N.C., before joining
Washington and Lee’s faculty.

Widely known as a composer, Pro-
fessor Stewart joined the Washington and
Lee faculty in 1954. Born in Buffalo, N.Y.,
he holds three Master of Music degrees,
One each in music education, violin, and
composition from the American Conser-
vatory in Chicago. He taught at the Con-
‘ervatory for several years before coming
to Lexington.

Stewart’s compositions have been per-
formed by some of the leading groups in

the United States, such as the New York
Brass Quintet, the American Brass Quin-
tet, the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra,
and the Composers Forum of New York
City. His works have received numerous
honors and commissions.

In 1968-70, Professor Stewart served
as president of the Southeastern Com-
posers League.

A native of Manchester, N.H., Dr.
Doyon received his A.B. degree at St. An-
selm’s College in Manchester, and_ his
A.M. and Ph.D. degrees at Boston Uni-
versity. He also studied at Ecole des
Beaux-Arts in Paris under a Fulbright
Scholarship and at the Ecole du Musee du
Louvre in Paris.

Before assuming his present position
on Washington and Lee’s faculty in Sep-
tember, 1968, Dr. Doyon served as chair-
man of the art department at St. Anselm’s
College, assistant chairman of human-
ities at Miami-Dade Junior College in
Florida, and chairman of the art depart-
ment at Florida Atlantic University.

His book, Art By the Masters, was
published by Allied Press in 1964-66, and
he has been awarded several major paint-
ing commissions.

Professor Junkin was born in Chunju,
Korea, the son of a Presbyterian mission-
ary. A graduate of Washington and Lee,
he studied art in New York at the Art
Student’s League, George Luks’ Art Class,
and the Metropolitan School of Art.

After serving as associate director of
the Richmond School of Art (now part
of Virginia Commonwealth University)
from 1934 to 1941, Junkin went to Van-
derbilt University where he founded its
department of fine arts. In 1949, he be-
came Washington and Lee’s first professor
of art, and he has served since as head of
the fine arts department. His work has
been exhibited at such places as the Car-
negie Institute, the Whitney Museum,
and the New York World’s Fair. He has
received awards from the Virginia Mu-
seum of Fine Arts and the Butler Art In-
stitute Biennial.

During the 1950’s, Junkin created six
large fresco murals, including work for
the Richmond Cerebral Palsy Center, the
Stonewall Jackson Memorial Hospital in
Lexington, and a savings and loan associa-
tion in Memphis, Tenn.

Born in East Cleveland, Ohio, Dr.
Drake joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1940 as an instructor. He mov-
ed up to assistant professor in 1946, as-
sociate professor in 1957, and became pro-

CAMPUS :7

fessor of romance languages in 1959.

He received the A.B. in French from
Oberlin College, then took graduate study
in languages at Princeton University, the
University of Virginia, and the University
of North Carolina, receiving his Ph.D.
from the latter school in 1957.

At Washington and Lee, Dr. Drake
has played an important role in con-
ducting National Defense Education Act
and Education Professions Development
Act institutes for high school teachers
from all sections of the nation during re-
cent summers.

Dr. Barrett, who was born in Lanett,
Ala., became professor of romance langu-
ages at Washington and Lee in 1948, and
he has headed the department since 1960.

A graduate of Mercer University with
a Ph.D. from the University of North
Carolina, Dr. Barrett served as public af-
fairs officer in Bogota, Colombia and
Quito, Ecuador from 1951 to 1953. He
is the author of two textbooks and num-
erous articles on Spanish and Portuguese
literature.

Dr. Barrett, often with the collabora-
tion of his wife, has translated several
books from the Portuguese language for
major American publishers.

Disaster Relief Study

Information compiled by Washington
and Lee students was presented in early
February to a U.S. Senate subcommittee
on disaster relief which held hearings in
Roanoke. |

The students, as part of a class in re-
search methods of politics and sociology,
interviewed 98 victims of the August flood
in Rockbridge County, gathering data and
obtaining reaction of the persons to their
losses.

The class is taught by Dr. William
Buchanan, professor of politics.

Presenting the report to the subcom-
mittee headed by Sen. Birch Bayh, D-Ind.,
were seniors Homer F. Gamble of Kings-
tree, S.C., and J. David Field of Monroe,
Ga.

Other members of the class who par-
ticipated in the study were: G. Christo-
pher Habers of Sewickley, Pa.; George
W. Hamlin of Scarsdale, N.Y.; Charles
A. Holt of Blacksburg, Va.; Thomas O.
Metcalf of Watertown, Mass.; Joseph. D.
Raine, Jr., of Louisville, Ky.; and Robert
C. Skinner of Coraopolis, Pa.

In interviewing persons along the
South and Maury rivers, from Vesuvius to

 

 

 

8 CAMPUS

Glasgow, the students found that the
maximum loss reported for any one fam-
ily was $40,000, while the average loss
per family was about $6,000. ‘“The greater
losses,” the report stated, “were incurred
by those with the larger incomes, but it
was the families with low incomes who
lost the most relative to income.”

The victims’ reaction to loss was large-
ly in “personal terms,” the report stated.
“Despair at property loss, debt, and the
labor required to rebuild what had been
swept away were mentioned by 44 of the
53 persons who said their lives would be
worse off as a result of the flood. Five
persons mentioned emotional effects, such
as fear.

“Only 10 persons said they intended
to move out of the flooded area. Asked
about the effect on the community, 12
said they feared other people would
move away, and another six said that
with the land ruined, new people would
not move into their communities.”

The survey also included a question
Which raised the possibility there might
be eventual benefits from the flood. De-
spite this “loading of the question,” the
report noted, only 30 persons felt that the
“cloud had any silver lining,” and 18 of
those persons said that meeting the emer-
gency had spiritually enhanced their lives
in some way, or had brought them closer
to God.

Victims were also asked which agencies
should have helped more than they did.

“The important finding is that some
three months after the flood, 78 per cent
did not list any agency as not helping
enough. Fifteen said Red Cross, and two
said churches, while five others gave scat-
tered responses to the question of insuffici-
ent aid. It is interesting that the only
agencies blamed by more than one per-
son were those agencies that in fact helped
the most—the Red Cross which helped 65
per cent of the people, and the churches
which helped 45 per cent of the people.”

Recent SNPAF Seminar

A continuing education seminar for
Southern newspapermen and newspaper-
women on the topic, “Literature in the
South,” was held on campus Feb. 15-18.

The seminar was one of a series on a
wide variety of topics sponsored by the
Southern Newspaper Publishers Associa-
tion Foundation. Joining the foundation
in sponsoring the Washington and Lee
seminar were the University’s department

 

of journalism and communications, and
the department of English. The continu-
ing education sessions are held at se-
jected Southern colleges and universities.

Co-chairmen of the seminar were Pro-
fessor Paxton Davis, head of the depart-
ment of journalism and communications,
and Dr. Severn Duvall, head of the de-
partment of English.

Some of the topics discussed by the 13
seminar participants included: “Life and
Letters in the South,” ‘‘Race, Violence,
and Humor — Characteristic Themes,”
“Southern Fiction to Faulkner,” ‘A Read-
ing: Poetry and Fiction,” “Women Wri-
ters of the South,” “Southern Poetry,” and
“Contemporary Southern Writing.”

Four Printing Awards

The Journalism Laboratory Press of
Washington and Lee has received four
Printing Industries of the Virginias fine
printing awards for its publications, W.
Howard Eanes, superintendent of the lab-
oratory press, has announced.

The awards included two for stapled
publications—first place for a bulletin en-
titled The Natural Sciences at Washing-
ton and Lee University, and second place
for the October, 1969, issue of the Alum-
nus, the magazine for Washington and
Lee alumni.

In addition, the laboratory press re-
ceived two honorable mentions—one for a
Journalism Laboratory Press letterhead
done by lithograph offset, and one for a
stapled publication entitled The Fresh-
man Year (1969).

The awards were earned in compéeti-
tion with printing plants with 10 or fewer
employees in Virginia and West Virginia.
They were awarded: “In recognition of
fine printing produced in accordance
with the highest traditions of Virginias’
graphic arts.”

All of the stapled publications were
designed by the Washington and Lee
publications office, directed by Romulus
T. Weatherman.

The Journalism Laboratory Press is
operated by the department of journalism
and communications of Washington and
Lee.

PBK Elects 28

The Washington and Lee chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa, the national honorary
fraternity recognizing outstanding schol-
arship, has elected 28 new members.

The list is comprised of 18 seniors,
five juniors, one law student, three mem-
bers of the class of 1969, and one honor-
ary member, whose name will be an-
nounced later.

The 18 seniors, probably the most
cosmopolitan group ever elected to the
honor society at Washington and Lee, are
from 16 different states, according to Dr.
Sidney M. B. Coulling, professor of Eng-
lish and chapter secretary. They are:

@ David McLeod Bethea, an English
major from Newport News, Va.

@ Roger Franklin Cook, a philosophy
major from Pine Bluff, Ark.

@ David Harris Dake, an Honors
candidate in sociology with a major in
history, as well, from Monroe, Conn.

@ James George Dickinson, a political
science major from Richmond Heights,
Ohio.

@ Robert Lee Entzminger, an English
major from Belle, W.Va.

@ Henry Arnold Fleishman, a chemis-
try major from Anderson, S.C.

@ Marvin Charles Henberg, a major
in English and philosophy from Laramie,
Wyo.

@ Robdon Dean Hollister, an Honors
candidate in English from Charleston,
Ill.

@ John Moody Kefauver, Jr., an eco-
nomics major from San Antonio, Tex.

@ Roger Scott Martin, a business ad-
ministration major from Jacksonville,
Fla.

@ Homer Lamar Mixson, Jr., an
Honors candidate in English from At-
lanta, Ga.

@ William Charles Ober, an interde-
partmental major from Newfield, N.J.

@ Steven Bruce Sandler, an economics
major from Norfolk, Va.

@ Martin Frederick Schmidt, Jr., a
business administration major from Louis-
ville, Ky.

@ James Mitchell Smith, a_ business
administration major from Wynnewood,
Pa.

@ Michael Timothy Thornton, a
major in American history from Hunting-
ton, W.Va.

@ Steven Francis Unti, a business ad-
ministration major from Tantallon, Md.

@ Stephen Fredrick Weiss, a com-
merce major from Montpelier, Vt.

The 18 seniors elected bring to 20
the number of seniors chosen for Phi
Beta Kappa. Two members of the class
of 1970 were elected last year as juniors.
They are Anthony Moncrief Coyne from

CAMPUS 2

Decatur, Ga., and Gary Hobson Dobbs,
III, from Birmingham, Ala.
y The five juniors elected are:

@ James Finney Easterlin, a major in
math and commerce from Montezuma,
Ga.

@ Stephen Robert Haughney, an Eng-
lish major from University Heights, Ohio.

@ Richard Steven Kampf, last year’s
winner of the Phi Beta Kappa sophomore
award and a chemistry major from Scars-
dale, N.Y.

@ Joseph Buford Tompkins, Jr., a
political science major from Vinton, Va.

@ William Clement Wilkinson, a Ppsy-
chology major from Ft. Eustis, Va.

The law student elected is Leighton
Summerson Houck, a Hampden-Sydney
College graduate from Lynchburg, Va.

In addition, three magna cum laude
graduates of the class of 1969 were elected.
They included Robert Irving Dunbar
from Cincinnati, Ohio, William David
Ferraraccio from Bluefield, Va., and Alan
Marc Le Vine from Hawthorne, N ‘Js

Membership in Phi Beta Kappa, which
was founded at the College of William
and Mary in 1776, has long been re-
garded as one of the highest of academic
distinctions. The purpose of the society is
to recognize and encourage scholarship
and cultural interests. Qualifications for
membership are excellent scholarship,
liberal culture, and good character.

PBK Sophomore Awards

Two Washington and Lee students
have been named recipients of the Phi
Beta Kappa Sophomore Award at the
University for 1970.

They are Frank Ridgely Benton, Jr.,
of Highland Park, Ill., and Lloyd M.
Goodman of Norfolk, Va.

Given annually by the Gamma of Vir-
ginia chapter, the award goes to the
sophomore with the highest scholastic
average for the first three semesters of
his college career. Because of their almost
identical records, both Benton and Good-
man were selected for the award this
year.

The award, established in 1955, con-
sists of a cash prize of $25 to be used by
the recipient for the purchase of books
for his personal library. Appropriate book
plates are inscribed indicating the signi-
ficance of the award.

The purpose of the award is to en-
Courage scholastic endeavor among un-
dergraduates during their first years.

Woodrow Wilson Scholars

Two Washington and Lee seniors and
an alumnus are among 1,153 persons who
have been named Woodrow Wilson De-
signates by the Woodrow Wilson Na-
tional Fellowship Foundation.

They are seniors Gary H. Dobbs, III,
of Birmingham, Ala., and Marvin C. Hen-
berg of Laramie, Wyo., and an alumnus,
the Rev. Charles M. Swezey of Lexington.
Swezey, who is assistant minister of Lex-
ington Presbyterian Church, was graduat-
ed from Washington and Lee in 1957.

They are among the “intellectually
promising” students whose names have
been sent by the foundation to all gradu-
ate school deans in the United States with
the recommendation that they receive fel-
lowship awards from the graduate schools.

Woodrow Wilson Designates were se-
lected from a field of approximately 12,-
000 nominated for the honor by more
than 800 colleges and universities. All in-
dicated they plan to follow a career in
college teaching.

Dobbs, who is majoring in biology, has
been an Honor Roll and Dean’s List stu-
dent at W&L. He is a member of Phi
Beta Kappa and Phi Eta Sigma, frater-
nities recognizing scholastic excellence.
He has been a Research Scholar in the
Robert E. Lee Research Program.

Henberg, who is majoring in philoso-
phy and English, currently serves as presi-
dent of the student body. Also an Honor
Roll and Dean’s List student, he has serv-
ed as vice president of Omicron Delta
Kappa and president of Phi Eta Sigma.
He has been a dormitory counselor,
chairman of the Student Curriculum Com-
mittee, and a contributor to Ariel, the stu-
dent literary magazine.

After receiving his B.A. degree, Swe-
zey earned the Bachelor of Divinity de-
gree from Union Theological Seminary
in Richmond in 1961, and the Master of
Sacred ‘Theology degree from Yale Divin-
ity School in 1962. In 1968-69, he won a
Danforth Campus Ministry Grant and
was appointed a Research Fellow at Yale
Divinity School.

OAS Problem-Solving

About 100 students from 10 colleges
and universities took the problems of
American countries as their own during
a conference at Washington and Lee on
Mar. 13-14.

The event was the second Model Or-

ganization of American States (OAS), a
program which simulated _ situations
found on the floor of the real OAS.

Serving as General Secretariat for the
Model OAS was the Political Science
Club and International Relations As-
sociation of Washington and Lee. All
sessions were held at the University Cen-
ter.

Participating delegations included
George Washington University, repre-
senting Argentina; Hollins College, rep-
resenting Bolivia, Trinidad, and Tobago;
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, rep-
resenting Brazil; Manhattanville College,
representing Chile; Salem College, rep-
resenting Ecuador; East Carolina Uni-
versity, representing Mexico; Mary Wash-
ington College, representing Peru; the
Washington and Lee Young Republicans,
representing the United States; and Mary
Baldwin College, representing Venezuela.
All other delegations consisted of Wash-
ington and Lee students.

Delegates heard remarks by Joseph
Romanelli, an information officer serving
in the Office of Public Affairs for the
Latin American Bureau of the Depart-
ment of State, and Commander Richard
W. Anderson, USN, who is assigned to the
Office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff as mili-
tary secretary to the United States dele-
gations, Inter-American Defense Board
(I-ADB).

The idea behind the Model OAS is
to help students understand the inter-
relationships of the American countries
by considering the nations’ problems ‘and
ways to solve them, according to John
Motsinger, a senior from Roaring Gap,
N.C.

Motsinger, who served as Secretary-
General of the Model OAS, noted that the
session has grown since its founding here
last year. The 1969 session drew some 75
participants from seven colleges, and no
speakers were on the program.

Simulation, or “gaming,” has become
an increasingly popular extracurricular,
educational pursuit with some Washing-
ton and Lee students in recent years.
Last year, a joint delegation of Washing-
ton and Lee and_ Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College students won three na-
tional awards for model simulation (two
at a National Model OAS at George
Washington, one at the National Model
United Nations in New York), more
awards than any other college delega-
tion in the nation, according to Mot-
singer.

 

 

10: CAMPUS

 

 

 

Professor Robert Stewart composed a requiem from a poem.

Asian Inspiration

The poetry of a Buddhist monk in
South Vietnam provided the inspiration
for a Washington and Lee professor’s ori-
ginal composition for orchestra, “A Re-
quiem for a Soldier,” that was performed
by the Albany, N.Y., Symphony Orchestra
on Feb. 10.

Professor Robert Stewart, whose works
have been performed widely throughout
the country, said the idea for his “Re-
quiem” came originally from reading the
words of Thich Nhat Hanh in the New
York Times book review section about
three years ago.

“His dynamic texts stayed with me for
several years and the compulsion to ex-
press them in music resulted in composing
the “Requiem.” This is not a requiem in
the usual sense. It is more a feeling or
dedication to the men in battle. Its pur-
pose is to stir our conscience to do some-
thing about human slaughter and depriva-
tion,” Stewart commented.

The inspiring lines of Thich Nhat
Hanh, who at that time was director of

the School for Social Studies in Saigon,
were as follows:
“I feel I am like that bird which
dies for the sake of its mate,
Dripping blood from its broken
beak, and crying out:
“Beware! Turn around to face your
real enemies—
Ambition, violence, hatred, greed.”
And from ‘Peace’;
“They woke me this morning
To tell me my brother had been
killed in battle.
Yet in the garden, uncurling moist
petals,
A new rose blooms on the bush
And I am alive, can still breathe the
fragrance of roses and dung,
Eat, pray, and sleep.
But when can I break my long sil-
ence?
When can I speak the muttered
words that are choking me?”
Stewart’s composition, which he com-
pleted Jan. 29, 1969, was performed by
the Albany Symphony Orchestra conduct-
ed by Julius Hegyi.

Costs of materials and reproduction
for the composition were covered by a
Glenn Grant from Washington and Lee,
Stewart noted.

Stewart has had his chamber and or-
chestral works performed through the
United States by the Atlanta Symphony,
Berkshire Symphony, Washington and
Lee Symphony, New York Brass Quintet,
Darian Woodwind Quintet, Music in Our
Time, Group for Contemporary Music of
Columbia University, Composers Forum
of New York, the Iowa String Quartet,
and others.

His recordings include two records of
music for brass by Golden Crest, and his
String Quartet No. 3 is to be released this
spring by Composer Recordings, Inc. and
to be performed by the Iowa String Quar-
tet.

Made In America

Washington and Lee was the only in-
stitution of higher education in the Unit-
ed States to have work by its students dis-
played in a recent art exhibition in Osaka,
Japan.

I-Hsiung Ju, the University’s artist-in-
residence, said that private schools from
all over the world were invited to exhibit
in the show, sponsored by the Osaka Pri-
vate School Art Society.

The drawings from Washington and
Lee were by Langdon C. Quin, a senior
from Atlanta, Ga.; William Chris Bauer,
a junior from Largo, Fla.; and David R.
Katz, a senior from Chagrin Falls, Ohio.

Quin’s work included pencil and
watercolor drawings of a broken axle and
a lantern study. Bauer’s drawings were
brush and ink figure sketches. Katz con-
tributed an oil of autumn leaves.

Also shown were color woodcuts by
Ju, an internationally-known artist, of a
stone wall and a snow scene.

NSF Grant For Research

Washington and Lee has been award-
ed a $5,600 grant by the National Science
Foundation to be used by the department
of chemistry for undergraduate research.

Dr. J. Keith Shillington, professor of
chemistry, will direct the project, assisted
by other members of the department.

Under the program, stipends are pro-
vided students to participate in research
projects at the University during the
summer. The program is aimed at stu-
dents who intend to continue their edu-

 

 

 

cation in graduate school, but it is not
limited to them, nor is it limited to stu-
dents enrolled at Washington and Lee,
according to Dr. William J. Watt, as-
sociate dean of the College.

The funds are used for operating ex-
penses, laboratory equipment, and the
payment of salaries.

Washington and Lee has had at least
one National Science Foundation pro-
ject in effect now every year since 1963.

Freshman Camp Moved

Washington and Lee has decided to
end its 38-year-old Freshman Camp in
favor of an on-campus orientation pro-
gram geared to the academic needs of
freshmen.

Freshman Camp has been held at Na-
tural Bridge, located 14 miles south of
the Lexington campus.

‘Lewis G. John, dean of students, said
that two primary reasons existed for mov-
ing freshman orientation from Natural
Bridge to the campus:

@ Adoption of the new curriculum by
the faculty. The curriculum, to become ef-
fective with the 1970-71 academic year,
will give students increased freedom of
choice in course selection. It was felt that
an orientation stressing the curriculum
choices could best be held on campus
where teachers and buildings are more
readily available.

@ Adoption by the faculty of a de-
ferred rush system for fraternities. Since
Rush Week no longer will be held be-
fore the first semester begins, the need
to take freshmen away from campus to
shelter them from fraternity rush no
longer exists.

Dean John said that final plans for
the new orientation program are still in
the formative stage.

Freshman Camp was one of many in-
novations put into effect by Frank J. Gil-
liam, long-time dean of students and now
dean emeritus and adviser to the presi-
dent. The camp was widely hailed as a
diverse program introducing freshmen to
the work, recreation, friendships, tradi-
tions, and ideals of Washington and Lee
in an informal, relaxed atmosphere.

Two Societies Elect r4

Thirteen Washington and Lee stu-
dents and an instructor have been elected
to two honor societies in the School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics.

Beta Gamma Sigma, a national honor
society that recognizes outstanding
achievement by students of commerce and
business administration, has selected six
new members.

They include Hugh Buckler Guill, a
senior from Washington, D.C.; Roger
Scott Martin, a senior from Jacksonville,
Fla.; Martin Frederick Schmidt, Jr., a
senior from Louisville, Ky.; James Mit-
chell Smith, a senior from Wynnewood,
Pa.; Stephan Fredrick Weiss, a senior
from Montpelier, Vt.; and James Finney
Easterlin, a junior from Montezuma, Ga.

Omicron Delta Epsilon, a national
honor society that recognizes outstanding
academic achievement by economics
majors, has selected seven seniors and a
faculty member.

They are John Henry Crockett, Jr.,
from Wytheville, Va.; Charles Asbury
Holt, Jr., from Blacksburg, Va.; John
Moody Kefauver, Jr., from San Antonio,
Texas; Henry Wise Kelly, III, from Fair-
fax, Va.; Reeve Withrow Kelsey, from
Toledo, Ohio; Lawrence Hendry Morri-
son, from Houston, Texas; Robert Powel
Trout, from Roanoke, Va.; and Frederick
John Nowak, a Washington and Lee in-
structor in commerce.

A joint initiation will be held at a
later date by the two societies. Dr. Charles
F. Phillips, Jr., is president of both or-
ganizations, and Dr. Thomas E. Ennis,
Jr., is secretary-treasurer.

Faculty Adopts New Rules

The faculty has adopted new policies
on student class attendance and student
eligibility to participate in extracurricu-
lar activities.

Both new policies will become effective
in September, with the start of the 1970-
71 academic year.

The faculty’s new attendance policy
will replace in September all past Univer-
sity-wide policies on absences with a state-
ment making student attendance in
classes or laboratories a matter between
the student and the professor in that class
or laboratory.

The statement reads:

“A student’s participation in the work
of a course is clearly a precondition of his
receiving credit in that course. Because
of the wide variety of courses and teach-
ing methods at Washington and Lee, the
University recognizes that the nature of
a student’s participation in the work of
a course cannot be prescribed on a Uni-

CAMPUS <1

versity-wide basis. For this reason, class-
room attendance is not a matter subject
to regulation by the University. A  stu-
dent’s attendance in class and laboratory
is rather a matter between him and the
professor in that class or laboratory.”

Current regulations, which stay in ef-
fect through the current academic year,
give the privilege of self-determination
of class attendance, with certain excep-
tions, to the following: students on the
Dean’s List, students with junior or senior
class standing, and freshmen and sopho-
mores in junior-senior courses.

The new eligibility rule for students
on academic probation, which will also
not be effective until September, was rec-
ommended by the Student Affairs Com-
mittee. It states:

“Students on academic probation are
academically eligible to participate in no
more than one student extracurricular
activity—athletic or non-athletic—during
the period of their probation. This rul-
ing shall apply to intercollegiate athletics,
managerial staffs of all teams _partici-
pating in intercollegiate athletics, musi-
cal and dramatic organizations, editorial
and business staffs of publications, and to
intercollegiate debating.”

Under the existing policy, which re-
mains in effect through the current aca-
demic year, students on academic proba-
tion are not eligible to participate in in-
tercollegiate athletics, intramural athle-
tics, musical and dramatic organizations,
editorial and business staffs of publica-
tions, and intercollegiate debating.

Under the policy to start with the
1970-71 year, eligibility requirements for
participation in intramural athletics will
be abolished.

Henberg Wins Danforth

Senior Marvin C. Henberg has won a
Danforth Graduate Fellowship for advanc-
ed study for the Ph.D. degree, the Dan-
forth Foundation of St. Louis, Mo. has
announced.

Henberg is president of the student
body at Washington and Lee.

The fellowship provides tuition and
living expenses for up to four years of
study in preparation for a career of col-
lege teaching. Henberg was nominated
for the fellowship by the University.

More than 1,900 college seniors from
colleges and universities throughout the
United States competed for the 107 fel-
lowships awarded this year.

 

 

 

‘of the late Mr.
of Richmond

ew
; ts

_

=<
0 ee

Oo

ae

—s--

Deere eee eS ew eee ey

ome Te

*“S Se

.

er Soe

ee : BS

rs 37 =e

So ee ee

Ae,
ee

 

 

i et 7 _

 

 

 

 

noted. “It comes at a time when addi-
tions to financial aid programs are needed
badly by institutions of higher learning.
This generous gift is especially important
because it represents one of the largest
additions to our financial assistance pro-
grams in recent years. It is also of great
significance because it establishes at Wash-
ington and Lee an entirely new scholar-
ship fund.”

The Gooch family has close ties with
Washington and Lee. Several members
of both the late Mr. Gooch and Mrs.
Gooch’s families are graduates of the Uni-
versity.

$x Million Gift

The University has been named the
recipient of a charitable remainder trust
currently valued at approximately $1
million, President Huntley has an-
nounced.

The estate of stocks and bonds was
left by Mrs. Mary Hudson Floyd of Pitts-
burgh, Pa., who died Aug. 30, 1969.

According to her four-page, hand-
written will, the residue of the estate is
to come to Washington and Lee after
the death of Mrs. Floyd’s daughter, Mrs.
Harriet L. McCaskey of Pittsburgh, Pa.,
to establish the S. Leslie Mestrezat Schol-
arship Fund.

Individual student scholarships will
be awarded up to $2,000 per academic
year by the terms of Mrs. Floyd’s will.

The fund will be in honor of Mrs.
Floyd’s uncle, Mr. Justice S. Leslie Mes-
trezat of Greene Country, Pa., an 1871
graduate of Washington and Lee. He
served as a justice of the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania.

“We are grateful for this significant
help to Washington and Lee in the im-
portant area of student scholarship aid,”
President Huntley remarked. “This is a
fine example of what is possible through
careful estate planning in the way of
much-needed aid to the cause of higher
education.”

Mrs. Floyd’s will also bequeathed
510,000 to the Associate Alumnae of
Vassar College, and stated that she had
already created a scholarship fund for
Waynesburg College.

Money For Doremus

A gift of $75,000 has been made to
Washington and Lee to be applied toward
Construction of a major addition to 54-

ae

His weight slightly forward, left elbow bent, right arm extended, Athletic Director Gene

CAMPUS .13

Corrigan initiates groundbreaking for Doremus Gymnasium addition. Others trying out for
the sport include (I. to r.) Varsity Club President Tom McJunkin, President Robert
Huntley, Buildings and Grounds Superintendent Pat Brady, Contractor R. L. Johnson,
former Athletic Director Cy Twombly, and Architect Henry Ravenhorst.

year-old Doremus Gymnasium, President
Huntley has announced.

The gift was presented by Willard H.
“Bud” Keland of Racine, Wis. A 194]
graduate of the University, Keland pre-
viously gave $8,500 toward the new gym,
which should be constructed within the
next two years.

Keland, a former managing partner of
the Miami Dolphins professional football
team, currently heads the Wisconsin
River Development Corp. of Racine. Un-
der his direction, the corporation is de-
veloping a multi-million-dollar sports, re-
sort, and residential community expected
eventually to cover some 4,000 acres of
Wisconsin hill country surrounding Talie-
sin, the famed home of the late archi-
tectural genius Frank Lloyd Wright.
Much of the work is being done under
basic plans originally drawn by Wright.

“Washington and Lee is extremely
fortunate to have among its alumni men
who, like Bud Keland, remain aware of
the University’s needs and loyal to the
University’s ideals,” President Huntley
said. “Mr. Keland’s support of Washing-
ton and Lee has been significant over the
years.”

“This gift will be a big boost to us in
efforts to provide modern indoor facilities
to support our broad program of 12 in-
tercollegiate sports and extensive intra-

mural and physical education programs,”
Eugene F. Corrigan, Washington and Lee
athletic director commented.

Keland is a former vice president for
corporate public relations of S. C. John-
son & Son, the wax manufacturing firm.
He holds a master’s degree in business
administration from the University of
Chicago.

The Doremus Gym addition will ap-
proximately triple existing usable floor
space—from a current 40,000 square feet
to about 120,000 square feet. Total cost is
expected to be nearly $3 million.

Turner Invited to Eclipse

Dr. Edward F. Turner, Jr., professor
of physics at Washington and Lee, was
one of 100 selected teachers of astronomy
in the nation’s colleges to attend the
Solar Eclipse Conference March 6-7 at East
Carolina University in Greenville, N.C.

The conference, supported by a Na-
tional Science Foundation grant, coincid-
ed with the total solar eclipse March 7.
The campus of East Carolina was located
within two miles of the central line of
totality.

Only one more total solar eclipse will
be seen in the United States during this
century, and that will be on Feb. 26,
1979 in the state of Washington.

 

 

 

14: DEVELOPMENT

Final Provisions of Last Year's Tax Reform Act

Shouldn’t Handicap Financial Future of Institutions

Throughout most of last year, educa-
tors watched with increasing anxiety the
unfolding of the Tax Reform Act of
1969 in Congress. Nearly all heads of
private institutions considered the pro-
visions of the House-passed version to be
a threat to the financial survival of their
institutions. President Huntley of Wash-
ington and Lee, speaking for the Associa-
tion of Independent Colleges in Virginia,
testified in September, 1969 before the
Senate Finance Committee, urging strong-
ly that the provisions severely restrict-
ing charitable gifts be altered or deleted.

Because of the efforts of college presi-
dents such as President Huntley and or-
ganizations such as the American Alumni
Council, the American College Public
Relations Association, and the American
Council on Education, the tax bill as
passed and signed by President Nixon
does not particularly jeopardize philan-
thropic support of Washington and Lee
and other educational institutions. In
fact, some of its provisions are more
beneficial than the old law.

Consequently, a donor should not
hesitate to follow any means of making a
gift to Washington and Lee—either on a
direct or deferred basis—for in all prob-
ability the Tax Reform Act has not
rendered the chosen method less effective
for the donor or the University. An ex-
ception is the old procedure of the “Bar-
gain Sale’ that is now virtually ineffec-
tive from the donor’s tax standpoint.

Washington and Lee’s Office of De-
velopment has more complete informa-
tion on the Tax Reform Act of 1969 in
booklet form which is available to any
alumnus or friend. For this information,
write to: Farris Hotchkiss, Director of
Development, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, Lexington, Virginia 24 450.

The following was excerpted from a
summary of the provisions of the tax bill
prepared for the American Council on
Education by John Holt Myers of Wil-
liams, Myers, & Quiggle, Washington,
D.C.::

The President has signed into law the
Tax Reform Act of 1969 in the form
agreed to by the conferees between the
House and the Senate and passed by both
bodies. Although there are a number of
provisions which will affect colleges and
universities directly and indirectly, the

final version achieves Congress’s drive
for reform without imposing unreason-
able burdens on such entities,

CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS

Charitable contributions will not be
affected by the minimum tax on “prefer-
ence income” included in the Act. ‘The
conferees, in effect, rejected the House
version of the minimum tax which includ-
ed a limit on tax preference and required
allocation of deductions. In its place was
substituted the Senate minimum tax on
certain specified items of “preference in-
come.” Because unrealized and untaxed
appreciation in property contributed to
colleges, and similiar en-
tities is not included as an item of “pre-
ference income,’ contributions of ap-
preciated property will not be subject to
the minimum tax.

universities,

LIMITATION ON INDIVIDUAL

CONTRIBUTIONS

Although the Act increases from 30
to 50 per cent of adjusted gross income
the limit on contributions to colleges,
churches, and similar entities made by
individuals, this increase is circumscribed
in such a way as to apply only to indivi-
duals making gifts which consist entirely
of cash. Thus, its effect will be minimal
indeed. Where a donor contributes ap-
preciated property or appreciated prop-
erty and cash, the limit will remain at
30 per cent not only for the initial year
but also for the years to which the excess
contributions will be carried over. With
respect to excess contributions made in
1969 and prior years, the statute would
appear to provide that they may be car-
ried over to 1970 and later years, regard-
less of the nature of the original gift.
In substance, they will be treated as cash
contributions in subsequent years and
subject to the 50 per cent limitation
rather than the 30 per cent limitation ap-
plicable in the year of the gift. For most
major donors, who by necessity make
their gifts in the form of appreciated
property, the 30 per cent limitation of the
present law will continue to apply.

GIFTS OF APPRECIATED PROPERTY

The present rules are retained with

respect to gifts of long-term capital gain
property to colleges, universities, and
similar entities. This means that the
donor of real property, securities, art ob-
jects, and remainder interests in prop-
erty (other than tangible personalty)
which, if sold, would give rise to long-
term capital gain will be entitled to de-
duct the fair market value without in-
cluding the unrealized appreciation in
income. (A special rule applies in the
case of gifts of tangible personal property
if it is unrelated to the “purpose or func-
tion constituting the basis for’ the donee’s
exemption.) In the case of gifts of such
long-term capital asset property to a priv-
ate foundation, the donor will be requir-
ed to reduce his gift by one-half of the
unrealized gain (6242 per cent in the case
of a corporation). The principal abuse
inherent in the gift of appreciated prop-
erty has been eliminated by limiting a
donor of property which, if sold, would
give rise to ordinary income (regardless
of the donee institution) to a deduction
only for his cost or basis in the property.

The tax advantages of the so-called
bargain sale are eliminated as of gifts
made on and after Dec. 19, 1969 by re-
quiring that the donor allocate a portion
of his basis to the gift property, and,
therefore, pay a tax on the portion of the
gain attributable to the proceeds re-
ceived.

UNLIMITED DEDUCTION

The unlimited deduction available to
those few individuals who have qualified
substantial contributions
over a period of 10 years will be phased
out over a five-year period after which
all contributions will be governed by the
general limitations.

by making

GIFTS OF AN INCOME INTEREST
IN PROPERTY OR THE USE OF
PROPERTY

To all intents and purposes, donors
will no longer be entitled to a deduction
for the gift of an income interest in prop-
erty or for the gift of a use of or a par-
tial interest in property. This limitation
will not apply to the gift of a remainder
interest in a personal residence or farm
or the gift of an undivided portion of a
donor’s entire interest in property. The
Conference Report makes it clear that the
gift of an open space easement “in gross”
is to be considered as a gift of an undi-

vided interest in property where the
easement is in perpetuity. In the case of a
gift of a remainder interest in a farm or
residence, the deduction will be based
on the assumption of a six per cent return
and depreciation on a straight-line basis
must be taken into account. By the same
token, a donor will be taxable on the in-
come of a trust which is set aside for the
benefit of a charitable
less than 10 years.

institution for

CHARITABLE GIFT ANNUITIES
AND GIFTS OF REMAINDER
INTERESTS

The tax treatment of charitable gift
annuities would not appear to be affected
by the Act except as the bargain sale pro-
vision may apply. The funding of such
annuity gifts with property may be con-
sidered such a “bargain sale” giving rise
to a gains tax on the difference between
the value of the retained annuity and the
reduced basis allocated thereto.

Effective July 31, no gift of a re-
mainder interest will qualify for a de-
duction unless made to a “pooled in-
come fund” or in the form of a “chari-
table remainder unitrust” or a “charitable
remainder annuity trust,” all of which
are narrowly defined in the statute. The
charitable remainder unitrust and the
charitable remainder annuity trust will
be nontaxable entities. The pooled in-
come fund will be taxable but only to the
extent of ordinary or short-term income
realized.

The “pooled income fund’ cannot
hold tax exempt securities, must consist
only of similar gifts, must be maintained
by the donee institution, and the taxable
income payable to the beneficiary or
beneficiaries must be determined by the
rate of return earned by the fund in the
year of payment to the beneficiary. The
charitable contribution deduction will
be based upon the highest rate of return
realized by the fund in the three years
prior to the gift or, in the case of a new
fund, on an assumed six per cent return.

To meet the tests of a “charitable re-
mainder annuity trust,” the instrument
must require payment of a certain sum
annually to the beneficiaries which is not
less than five per cent of the initial net
fair market value of the property placed
in the trust. The “charitable remainder
unitrust” must require payment annually
of a fixed percentage (which is not less
than five per cent) of the net fair market

value of the assets valued annually. The
instrument may provide that only the in-
come will be paid if it is less than the per-
centage and that, if the income exceeds the
percentage, it can be paid to the extent
that the income in prior years was less
than the fixed percentage. Charitable con-
tributions to the charitable remainder
or charitable remainder
unitrust will be valued on the basis of
the required percentage which, as indi-
cated above, must not be less than five
per cent.

The beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the “pooled income fund,” the “chari-
table remainder annuity trust” or the
“charitable remainder unitrust” must be
living at the time of the creation of the
trust. Gifts of remainder interests will
not qualify for estate and gift tax de-
duction unless they are in the form of a
“charitable remainder

annuity trust

unitrust” or

 

3 "ng zZarte
<a

Abs eS =

 

DEVELOPMENT 215

“charitable remainder annuity trust” or
a “pooled income fund.”

DEDUCTION OF ESTATE AND
TRUST FOR AMOUNTS PAID OR
PERMANENTLY SET ASIDE
FOR CHARITABLE PURPOSES

Although estates will continue to be
entitled to a deduction for income per-
manently set aside for charitable purposes
whether or not paid in the year of receipt,
trusts will no longer be entitled to this
benefit. In the case of trusts, the deduc-
tion will be available only if the income
is paid to the charity in the year of re-
ceipt or in the year following the receipt
of income. Satisfactory transitional rules
will protect life income gifts and contracts
created before Oct. 9 or, under cer-
tain circumstances, created under wills
executed prior to that date.

 

 

16: ATHLETICS

No Word For Word, Detailed Thing For This Game;
Fust Think Up Something Over Steak And Potatoes

Somehow at that precise moment,
around 9:00 p.m. the night of Feb. 24
with 14:30 left to go against Virginia
Commonwealth University, well, some-
how, everything at last seemed to come
together.

The Generals were up by only eight
points, 54-46, in what was a frantic at-
tempt to win a “must” game. It had been
frantic because Washington and Lee was
trying to pull out of a deadly slump, a de-
pression that had included a whopping
five losses in the previous: seven games.
There was no question that the eight-
point lead was tenuous. Very tenuous.

But at the 14:30 mark, the Generals
went into a four-cornered offense, and,
before the crowd could begin second-
guessing head coach Verne Canfield on
that move, presto, Washington and Lee
got one basket from Stu Fauber, five
straight points from Mel Cartwright, a
driving layup from Mike Neer, a few
more here and there, and all of a sudden
the Generals had an 18-point lead and
complete command of the game.

Washington and Lee won the game,
87-71, but in psychological terms it was
more like 100-0. The slump was broken,
finally, the albatross that had been hang-
ing on the Generals in those five games,
all of them big ones, was shaken off for
good.

Washington and Lee went on to win
its next two games, its final two, and both
were at the College Athletic Conference
tourney in St. Louis. The Generals trounc-
ed Centre, 93-66, in the semi-finals, then
outlasted host Washington University for
the championship, 82-69, thus taking
their third CAC title in the last four
years and winding up with a 17-8 recrod.

At one point, though, the conference
win appeared to be in jeopardy. Coming
off the exam break period, Washington
and Lee was coasting along with an 11-3
mark and about the only thing that was
going to stop it the rest of the way was if
the whole team was moved, franchise-
style, into the NBA. Even though junior
guard Bill Rhyne took some academic
lumps, it seemed that the Generals would
get their 20 wins easily, win the confer-
ence easily, and then fly off to the NCAA
finals or something great like that.

But after a tight win over Hampden-

Sydney, 76-72, to open up the second half
of the schedule, the bottom started to
fall out. Baltimore University and _ its
high-stepping, high-scoring Bunny Wil-
son (the nation’s second-leading scorer
at that time with a $2-point average) dealt
Washington and Lee a 70-66 loss, a game
the Generals should have won, especially
on their home court.

A routine 105-60 win over weak Lynch-
burg followed, but then came three
straight losses—90-79 to Old Dominion,
87-79 to Mars Hill, and 85-70 to West
Virginia Tech. Washington and Lee
somewhat righted itself in the next game,
a 107-80 drubbing of Davis & Elkins, but
got the bad habits back again against
Fairleigh-Dickinson, 76-69, the game that
immediately preceded the Virginia Com-

monwealth encounter.

So there was the slump, five losses in
seven games. Unheard of. Unexplainable.
Unexplainable, at least, to Canfield, who
during the period tinkered and toyed
with different starting fives, different
practice procedures (sometimes he held ex-
tended sessions, sometimes he didn’t hold
any), different game strategies, and so on.
It was kind of like Russian roulette, but
wtih five bullets.

Canfield finally found the empty
chamber for the Virginia Commonwealth
game, and it was not so much what he
did do but what he didn’t do. Usually, he
will engineer a game plan, intricate and
precise, all written down word for word,
and present it to the team just after the
pre-game dinner.

But this particular night, perhaps
simply out of despair after all those “non-
wins” as he likes to call them, Canfield
decided to bypass the team dinner com-

 

i

‘.
on on ae a, Bee Tees ee (lle

ee Si,

 

ATHLETICS 17

 

»
>
+?
7
- SEASON RECORD
WeL Opp. High Scorer Top Rebounder Assists
‘ 56 Randolph-Macon 57 Neer 17 Neer 17 Daniel 6
102 Bridgewater 87 Daniel 28 3 with 7 Cartwright 7
er 84 Rollins 62 Daniel 25, Neer 18 Cartwright, Morrison 6
66 Lynchburg 49 Neer 21 Neer 16 Rhyne, Gutshall 4
6 86 Hampden-Sydney 56 Cartwright 25 Cartwright 22 Cartwright 10
71 Lehigh 85 Cartwright 20 Neer 14 Cartwright, Daniel 4
= 67 Alma 59 Cartwright 19 Daniel 14 Cartwright, Daniel 5
g1 Centre 78 Neer 18 Neer 16 Gutshall 7
Ms 73 Wofford 63 Cartwright 25 Cartwright 16 Cartwright 7
83 Va. Commonwealth go Neer 22 Neer 17 Rhyne 6
ney 99 Bridgewater 74 Daniel 26 Neer 15 Cartwright, Gutshall 5
70 Navy 56 Daniel 16 Neer 17 Neer 6
i 82 Emory & Henry 52 Cartwright 25 Neer 16 4 with 3
g2 Belmont Abbey 64 Cartwright 23 Cartwright 19 Rhyne 4
» 76 Hampden-Sydney 72 Cartwright 23 Cartwright 22 Cartwright 6
66 Baltimore 70 Neer 18 Neer 27 Cartwright 8
. 105 Lynchburg 60 Daniel 23 Neer 19 Cartwright, Morrison 6
79 Old Dominion go Neer 32 Neer 29 Neer 5
79 Mars Hill 87 Cartwright 23 Neer 20 Fauber 4
70 W. Va. Tech 85 Neer 19 Neer 19 Neer 5
107 Davis & Elkins 80 Cartwright,
Neer 17 Neer 14 Cartwright 7
69 Fairleigh-Dickinson 76 Neer 23 Neer 15 Cartwright 4
87 Va. Commonwealth 71 Neer 24 Cartwright 16 Cartwright 7
93 Centre 66 Cartwright 16 Cartwright 10 Daniel 5
Cartwright,
82 Washington U. 69 Daniel 22 Neer 20 Cartwright 6

 

 

 

 

pletely. A psyche move, maybe. Instead,
Canfield sent in assistant coach Tom
Davies to relay a message that the game
plan would be the responsibility of the
players themselves. No word for word,
detailed thing; just think up something
over steak and a baked potato that can
beat Virginia Commonwealth.

“So we discussed it over dinner,” said
team captain Norwood Morrison. ‘‘We
didn’t need a scouting report, because
we had played them earlier in the year
(a 90-83 loss on VCU’s home court). We
knew what they had.

“Mostly we talked about defense, the
problem area up to that point. We felt
the only way we were going to snap out of
the slump was to play a good defensive
game, and, in order to prove to ourselves
we could play good defense, we decided to
g§0 man-to-man all the way.”

That decision was a risky one, indeed,
for the Generals are not a man-to-man
team. Rather, Washington and _ Lee
Specializes in a match-up defense, which
is basically a zone that permits one or
two defenders to go to the ball, thus ap-
pearing to be a man-to-man in those in-
stances,

When the Generals came out on the

Center Mike Neer works on Old Dominion—
he scored 32 points and grabbed
29 rebounds.

floor, the defensive tactic was unsettled
for a while, during Virginia Common-
wealth’s early attempt to run-and-shoot
Washington and Lee into a hole. But
Morrison, at guard, got things calmed
down later on in the first half, and the
Generals eased into a one-point lead, 39-
38, at halftime.

Whatever it was during the intermis-
sion—whether it was the fact that it was
the last home game of the season, whether
it was the last home court appearance for
seniors Morrison, Cartwright, Neer, and
Fauber, or whether the importance of the
game started to come across—something
picked the team up.

For five and a half minutes into the
second half, Washington and Lee con-
tinued to steady itself, finally developing
an eight point lead at the 14:30 mark
when Canfield put in the four-cornered
offense during a time out. And from that
point on, the season was salvaged.

Although the Generals didn’t make
it to the NCAA regionals, they did re-
ceive a number of individual honors.
Both Cartwright and Neer were named
to the AllCAC team, with Cartwright
earning the tourney’s MVP award. And
both were selected to the All-Virginia
small college honor squad. Cartwright, ad-
ditionally, was placed on the Little AII-
America honorable mention team.

Cartwright, with a 17.5-point average,

led the team in scoring. He finished with
11.9 rebounds a game, and averaged close
to five assists per game. His .569 floor
shooting percentage was among the na-
tion’s best.

Neer averaged 17.4 points a game, and
was a national leader in rebounding with
a tremendous 16.1 figure per game. His
incredible night was against Old Domi-
nion, when he scored 32 points and col-
lected 29 rebounds.

Cartwright and Neer graduate, of
course, as do Morrison and Fauber, the
quartet that led the Generals to a four-
year 74-24 won-loss record, including
those three conference titles. Now that
they're gone, it is interesting to speculate
just how well Washington and Lee is
going to fare in the years ahead.

Will 6-7 freshman Paul McClure be
able to take over Neer’s spot at center?
Will there be another Cartwright (there
will be, if his brother Mark, now in high
school in Martinsville, decides to come
to Washington and Lee)? Will the beefed-
up schedule, including Yale, Clemson,
and Virginia, be too much, too soon? Will
the new gym, once completed, eliminate
that dreaded home-court advantage the
Generals always enjoyed in old Doremus?

A. Yes

B. No

C. Maybe

D. None of the above.

18: ATHLETICS

 

Washington and Lee All-America defenseman Ned Coslett.

North-South Lacrosse Game
To Be Held Here June 13

When Washington and Lee undertook
to host the 29th annual North-South All-
Star Lacrosse Game, featuring the best
senior players in the country, it knew it
faced a promotion effort that would tax
the best Madison Avenue professional.

It’s because lacrosse is still relatively
unknown around the Lexington area.
While the Generals have fielded a team
since 1938 (and now neighboring VMI
has taken up the sport), it is still pretty
much of a mystery to the local folk.
They simply have not taken to the game.

What makes the promotional effort
even more difficult is the fact that neither
Washington and Lee nor VMI will be in

session when the game is held on June

13. It means the crowd will have to come
from among the local townspeople and
interested alumni, plus many “imports”
from areas like Baltimore, where lacrosse
is perhaps the most popular sport.

In this connection, the University has
joined forces with the local chamber of
commerce and retail merchants and other
groups to do a real selling job.

The Lexington Jaycees have taken on
promotion of the game as a special pro-
ject. They started a ticket-selling cam-
paign April 1. The Lexington Retail
Merchants Association has agreed to en-
dorse the game wholeheartedly, and will
feature it and each of the game’s players
in window displays, welcoming banners,
and so on.

Washington and Lee art students are
part of the act, too. Through a special

contest, they will design the game’s pro-
gram cover. Runner-up entries will be
lithographed and used as posters around
town to promote the event.

The U.S. Intercollegiate Lacrosse As-
sociation, which sponsors the game, likes
to move it around every year, one time
placing it in a hotbed lacrosse area and
another time putting it in an area where
lacrosse is relatively new or unknown in
an effort to give the fast-growing sport
more widespread exposure. The USILA is
well aware of the fact that its chances for
a profit are slim when it does this.

That’s why Washington and Lee, par-
ticularly head lacrosse coach Dick Szlasa,
wants to at least break even, to show the
USILA that the University and the Lex-
ington community can support and be en-
thusiastic about this event.

“To my knowledge, this will be the
biggest athletic attraction ever held in
Lexington,” said Szlasa. ‘““There will be
hundreds of out-of-towners coming to the
game, and they'll watch the best players in
the country. Athletes from Army, Navy,
Johns Hopkins, Virginia—the best lacrosse
teams in the nation—will be here.”

Each of the North-South teams will in-
clude 26 players, plus a staff of coaches
and trainers.

Szlasa likened the event to the equi-
valent of a four-day convention and the
effect it would have on the local economy.
Besides the all-star game itself, there will
be a number of other activities during the
week, including the All-America reception
and dinner when the 1970 All-America se-
lections and many past All-America play-
ers will be honored.

Additionally, the players and coaches
and other lacrosse officials will be enter-
tained at an old fashioned Virginia bar-
becue dinner, while through the Lexing-
ton-Rockbridge County Chamber of Com-
merce, the University has arranged a
special tour of historic and scenic Lexing-
ton.

The week’s activities also include
plans for a reunion of all former Wash-
ington and Lee lacrosse players. A recep-
tion and dinner is scheduled for them
Saturday night following the game.

Washington and Lee first began play-
ing lacrosse on a club basis in 1938, and
in 1947 was one of the first schools to
join the USILA. Since that initial begin-
ning, the Generals have placed over 25
men on the All-America teams, including
goalies Bill Clements, a first-team selec.
tion in 1950, and Jim Lewis, named to the

first team in 1958. Attackman ‘Tommy
Tongue made All-America three years
(1947-48-50), once on the second team and
twice on the third team. Goalie Ray Mil-
ler was chosen for the second team in
1962, and four other players have been
third team picks—defenseman Bill Pacy
in 1949, goalie Fletcher Lowe in 1954,
defenseman Dick Johnson in 1955, and
defenseman Ned Coslett in 1969. There
have been numerous honorable mention
All-Americas from Washington and Lee.

Coslett, this year’s co-captain along
with midfielder Jay Meriwether, received
an additional honor by having his picture
selected for the cover of the 1970 Official
Lacrosse Guide published by the NCAA.

And the Generals have placed at least
one man nearly every year on the South
squad for the North-South classic. Since
the sport was begun at Washington and
Lee, the Generals have sent over 30 men
to the honor event.

Lacrosse has taken on an international
flavor. In 1956, the Washington and Lee
lacrosse team toured England for a sum-
mer series of games in which it won all
but one of nine contests. In 1959, a com-
bined Washington and Lee-Virginia team
made a similar tour of Australia. The
University has been host to touring Eng-
lish lacrosse teams on several occasions.

Lacrosse is one of the most popular
spring sports on the Washington and Lee
campus. Each season, more than 50 candi-
dates report to Szlasa, a former All-Ameri-
ca midfielder at the University of Mary-
land. He has initiated a number of in-
novations in the lacrosse program at the
University since joining the staff in 1967,
including a freshman “B” team and fall
lacrosse workouts—the opposite of foot-
ball’s “spring practice”—highlighted by
a scrimmage against a formidable op-
ponent.

Szlasa is assisted by Athletic Director
Gene Corrigan, who coached lacrosse at
Washington and Lee and Virginia. Corri-
gan twice has been head coach for the
South squad in past all-star games, and
on three other occasions was an assistant
coach,

Tickets for the game, to be held on
Wilson Field at 1:30 p.m. on June 13, are
52.50 for adults and $1.25 for students
and children. They are available by mail
from the North-South Game Committee,
Doremus Gymnasium, Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, Virginia,
24450. Checks should be made payable to
29th North-South Game.

Brumback All-America

Junior freestyler Bill Brumback has
won All-America recognition for the sec-
ond consecutive year, this time earning
the honor at the NCAA college division
swimming championships held at Oakland
University in Rochester, Mich., on March
19-21.

Brumback finished 10th out of 47 con-
testants in the 50-yard freestyle, his time
of :22.4 just two-tenths of a second slower
than the winning time. In NCAA swim-
ming competition, the first 12 finishers
at the awarded All-
America status.

national finals are

Brumback also was entered in the 100-

ATRAILEVICS 319

yard freestyle event, but finished 17th
among a field of 52 entries, with a time of
:49.7. The winning time was :48.1.

‘Two and Lee
swimmers qualified for the trip to Oak-
land—sophomore Bim Clark and_ fresh-
man Alan Corwith. Clark, entered in the
100- and 200-yard butterfly, and Corwith,
going in the 100- and 200-yard freestyle,
failed to make the top 12 in each of their
events.

other Washington

To qualify for the national champion-
ships, a swimmer must equal a minimum
time in a specific event during the regular
season. The NCAA regularly reviews and
sets the time standards, according to per-
formances throughout the country.

 

Junior freestyler Bill Brumback (center) made All-America for the second straight year.
Sophomore Bim Clark (left) and freshman Alan Corwith also qualified for the nationals.

40: PEOPLE

The Model Executive

“John F. Watlington, Jr., is the model
of a model corporate executive.”

So begins a profile of the 58-year-old
president of Wachovia Bank & Trust Co.
in a recent issue of the Winston-Salem
Journal and Sentinel.

Watlington graduated from Washing-
ton and Lee in 1933, valedictorian and
Phi Beta Kappa. He joined Wachovia
that same year as a trainee at a salary
of $50 a month. Twenty-three years later,
in 1956, he became the bank’s chief exe-
cutive officer. Since then Wachovia’s re-
sources have risen from $446 million to
$1.63 billion. It has grown from an
operation with 20 offices in six North
Carolina cities to one now having 120
ofhices in 43 of the state’s cities and towns.
Wachovia today is the 39th largest—out
of some 14,000—commercial banks in the
country, and the largest in the Southeast.
And Watlington’s associates say, “Make
no mistake about it, John runs this bank.”

The profile deals with the twin ques-
tions: “Just who is this man?” and “What
makes him tick?”

Items:

“Besides his responsibilities to the
bank, Watlington regularly undertakes
extracurricular activities which are im-
pressive to the point of being frighten-

ing.

An abbreviated list of his activities:
In 1963 he headed a $7-million fund
campaign for the Bowman Gray School
of Medicine. He presently heads the $30-
million expansion program of the Wake
Forest University Medical Center and a
$1.2-million campaign of the First Pres-
byterian Church, where he is a deacon.
He sits on the boards of eight corpora-
tions of the size of the Georgia-Pacific
Co. and the Massachusetts Mutual Life
Insurance Co. He has been president of
the Chamber of Commerce in both Char-
lotte and Winston-Salem, and _ helped
organize Charlotte’s United Fund and
the Carolina’s United, a state-level Unit-
ed Fund agency. He is a past president of
the N.C. Citizens Association, a regional
vice chairman of the National Municipal
League, and a past regional chairman of
the National Conference of Christians
and Jews. He is on the board of the N.C.
Foundation of Church-Related Colleges,
the Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges, and has served on the boards
of eight educational ventures as varied
as the Asheville School for Boys, David-

 

John F. Watlington, Jr.

son College, and the Union Theological
Seminary in Richmond.

The profile continues: “Because of
the sheer size of his self-imposed work
load he has had to organize time in a
most careful manner. Asked about this,
Watlington says that he observes two
rules: (1) plan each day’s program in de-
tail and (2) live one day at a time.”

Said an associate: “John is so well
organized that he can get more done in
15 minutes than most men can do in
three hours.”

He is a master at delegating respon-
sibility. He features on his desk a small
plaque that reads: “There is no limit to
what a man can do or where he can go
if he doesn’t mind who gets the credit.”

“As an executive,” the profile con-
tinues, “Watlington not only lets his as-
sociates get credit, he also insists that
they earn it. The heads of the Wachovia
offices and the heads of the bank’s major
departments are given the authority to
do their job, and they are expected to do
the job on their own.”

His associates agree that he has a tre-
mendous sensitivity to people. One said:
“Busy as he always is, when you are with
John you have the impression that he has
all the time in the world and that your
concerns are his concerns.” Another said:
“John Watlington is so tuned in on peo-
ple that he can sense a personnel prob-
lem before it really becomes a problem.”

Another associate, adding a “‘detail in
the profile of a thoroughly organized
man,” said: “When John takes on an as-
signment he gives it all the time that is

required and he goes at the job with
dynamic, tough-minded tenacity. He
keeps asking ‘What’s next?’ until the job
is done.”

In 1969, Watlington was initiated into
honorary membership by the Washington
and Lee circle of Omicron Delta Kappa.
His son, John F. Watlington, III, is a
sophomore at Washington and Lee.

An Original Coed

When Miss Alta Fowler purchased a
book at the Washington and Lee Book-
store recently, Mrs. Betty Munger, the
Bookstore’s manager, gave her a 10 per
cent discount in accordance with the
store’s policy toward alumni and alumnae.

Alumnae? How could that be?

Washington and Lee is widely known
as a school that has been all-male through
its 221-year history. But a little-known fact
is that the University accepted a limited
number of women for credit work during
summer sessions in 1942 and 1943 in the
midst of World War II, a lean time for
higher educational institutions.

Miss Fowler, who currently serves as
American Consul at the American Em-
bassy in Brussels, Belgium, was one of
the original coeds. She recalls being one
of four in 1942, and one of a slightly
larger number the following year. Most
were from local families.

Miss Fowler was mildly amused to find
the issue of coeducation to be a raging
controversy at Washington and Lee. ““The
administration was just trying to keep the
school open during the war,” she com-
mented, “so they let us enroll.

“I think everybody tried to forget
about it after the war,” she smiled. “I
don’t think any record still exists that
shows women were enrolled.”

Miss Fowler transferred her Washing-
ton and Lee credits to Northwestern Uni-
versity where she received the B.S. degree
in 1946. Four years later, she received
her M.A. from the Fletcher School of
Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.
Her work with the State Department
has taken her to London, Tunis, Dacca,
Dublin, Malta, and now Brussels.

Although the coeds of 1942 and 1943
were allowed to take courses for credit
(something which is not currently allow-
ed the small number of women from the
Lexington sitting in on
courses today), none earned a Washington
and Lee degree. Thus, full coeducation,
if adopted sometime in the 1970’s, would

community

represent a break with an all-male past
with respect to the granting of degrees.
But no decision has been reached.

“In some ways, it would be a shame
to see tradition go by the wayside,” Miss
Fowler commented. “But if you have the
physical facilities to accommodate coedu-
cation, it would certainly bring new in-
tellectual dimensions to the classrooms.
I think coeducation would increase
healthy competition and diversity in the
classroom. Whether women like to ad-
mit it or not, they do think differently
than men.”

Washington and Lee has even had a
dean of women, Miss Fowler recalled.
During the wartime coeducational ses-
sions, Mrs. Henry Shelley, wife of a Wash-
ington and Lee professor, served in that
capacity for the several female students.

Hall’s Generosity Continues

The moot court program of the School
of Law is the beneficiary of the continu-
ing generosity of Wilbur C. Hall, a pro-
minent Leesburg, Va., attormey and a
1915 graduate of Washington and Lee.

Hall recently gave $10,185 to the Uni-
versity to establish a special fund for the
benefit of the Burks Moot Court Com-
petition, a program that trains law stu-
dents in the kind of legal preparation for
which Hall is legend. Hall, during more
than 50 years of law practice, earned the
reputation of being “the best prepared
lawyer before the bar of any court in
Virginia.”

Several years ago, Hall donated $10,-
000 to the School of Law to establish a
loan fund for deserving law students,
with special preference for Virginia re-
sidents. He has also been a generous con-
tributor to the Alumni Fund, and was a
class agent for many years, as well as a
participant in many other alumni acti-
vities.

The Burks Moot Court Competition
is named in honor of one of Hall’s
teachers at Washington and Lee, the late
Martin P. Burks, a dean of the School of
Law.

The funds provided by Hall will be
used to finance the printing and distri-
bution of moot court team briefs and to
meet other expenses of the program.

Under the program, all students are
required, as part of the course in legal
research, writing, and argument, to brief
and argue a case before a panel of judges
composed of Burks Scholars. The stu-

dents who demonstrate the greatest capa-
city and potential in these arguments are
eligible to participate in the Burks Moot
Court Competition. The four finalists in
the competition then argue their case be-
fore a distinguished panel of judges from
the appellate courts, both state and fed-
eral. The finalists are also eligible to repre-
sent the school in the National Moot
Court Competition and to become Burks
Scholars.

Hall, who recently celebrated his 78th
birthday, has had a distinguished career
as lawyer, legislator, and orator. He has
been called “a lawyer’s lawyer” and is
sometimes called “The Lawyer” by fel-
low citizens in Leesburg, a measure of
the respect accorded him in legal circles
in Loudoun County.

He represented Loudoun County in
the Virginia General Assembly from 1918
to 1935 and was the author and sponsor of
much farsighted legislation, including the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, legisla-
tion establishing the motor vehicle depart-
ment, an act establishing a central pur-
chasing system, and an act making drunk-

 

PEOPLE -21

en driving a criminal offense. He was first
chairman of the Virginia Conservation
Commission and made outstanding con-
tributions to the development of Vir-
ginia’s program of tourist promotion.

Hall has had few peers as an orator.
He has spoken on a wide range of sub-
jects at home and throughout the state.
Fifteen of the speeches have been reprint-
ed in the Congressional Record.

Hall has received many honors, in-
cluding membership in Phi Beta Kappa
at William and Mary, membership in
Omicron Delta Kappa at Washington
and Lee, and an honorary Doctor of Laws
degree from Washington and Lee in
1967. That same year the Loudoun Times-
Mirror named him “Citizen of the Year.”
‘The newspaper said:

“Mr. Hall’s great service to the Com-
monwealth of Virginia and its citizens, as
a legislator and as a leader, and to his
community as a public spirited citizen,
qualify him for a high place in the history
of Loudoun County and Virginia.”

He is also finding a high place in the
history of Washington and Lee.

Attorney Wilbur C. Hall of Leesburg—his generosity continues.

22; PEOPLE

University Historian Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw
Dies In Sleep At Age 65 On March 19

Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw, professor of
history and official University historian,
died at his home in his sleep on March
19 at the age of 65. He was truly an in-
stitution at Washington and Lee. He was
affiliated with the University for 48 years,
beginning with his enrollment as a stu-
dent in 1922. He recewed his A.B. de-
gree in 1925 and his M.A. in 1926, both
from Washington and Lee, and his Ph.D.
degree from Johns Hopkins in 1945. He
began teaching at Washington and Lee in
1926 and became head of the depart-
ment of history in 1962. He retired as
head of the department last year upon
reaching the age of 65, but continued
active teaching. He is survived by his
wife, Mrs. Marjorie Burford Crenshaw, of
Lexington, and a son, Albert B. Cren-
shaw, a reporter for the Washington
Daily News. He was buried in Stonewall
Jackson Memorial Cemetery.

Dr. Allen W. Moger, professor of
history and head of the department this
year, who was Dr. Crenshaw’s close friend
and colleague for more than 40 years,
wrote the following remembrance of Dr.
Crenshaw for the Alumnus:

Pe

aM

Until his sudden death on March 19,
Ollinger Crenshaw had a distinguished
career as a much loved and highly re-
spected teacher of many generations of
Washington and Lee students. Both in
Lexington and beyond, he became pro-
minent as historian, teacher, genial friend,
and delightful personality and _ racon-
teur.

Almost 48 years ago, Ollie, a
tall, shy lad from College Park near At-
lanta, appeared in Lexington as a fresh-
man at Washington and Lee. Already his
great interests were history and tennis,
and in both he would win distinction. As
an undergraduate he was a leading mem-
ber of the tennis team. By 1926, having
acquired two degrees and a Phi Beta
Kappa key from Washington and Lee,
he began to teach American history at his
Alma Mater. For many years before
World War II, he was the University’s
tennis coach—a labor of love which he as-
sumed in addition to his teaching re-
sponsibilities.

Meanwhile he had started his gradu-
ate work at the Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity. Ollie’s scholarly research was con-

 

He became prominent as historian, teacher, friend, and raconteur.

centrated primarily on the period im-
mediately preceding the Civil War, and
his several articles which were published
in the best historical journals were able
and enduring contributions to  scholar-
ship. His Slave States in the Presidential
Election of 1860 (The Johns Hopkins
Press, 1945) has been a must for genera-
tions of students in graduate schools all
over America. Long out of print, the
work was republished in 1968.

However, the crowning achievement
of Ollie’s career was the publication by
Random House last year of General Lee’s
College. This history of Washington and
Lee University has been widely acclaimed
for its clarity, lucidity, and wit. Several
thousand copies have already been sold,
and now still more alumni will wish to
secure it.

Ollie was always working on some
piece of research. While on leave last
spring he wrote us, “I am down here in
South Carolina chasing a_ secessionist.’
Also, few knew that at the time of his
death he was editing and had about
ready for publication ‘““The College Diary
of William Lyne Wilson.” Wilson had
become president of Washington and Lee
shortly after he retired from Cleveland’s
cabinet in 1897, and his diary contains
perceptive and humorous observations
about the Lexington scene and the needs
of the University at the turn of the cen-
tury.

Four decades of close friendship with
Ollie Crenshaw have left me with many
fond memories, some of which I am sure
are shared by hundreds of others. For
years as bachelors we had the same office,
ate at the same table, and received the
meager depression salaries. Each married
and had children. There was never a
break in the friendship. Memorable are
the dozens of times I sought his advice
or opinion; if he did not know what to
advise, he always made me feel better for
having discussed the problem with him.

His capacity for friendship seemed
without limit. His genial manner of in-
terest and concern made every student a
potential friend, and the number of
alumni with whom he maintained close
relations through the years has always
amazed me. Ollie had a circle of close
friends in Lexington; they will be among
those who will miss him most.

All will remember his keen sense of
humor which was most vividly and ap-
propriately revealed among friends,
whether in Lexington, at a meeting of

alumni, or at annual meetings of the
several historical associations. His stories
were always the best—told with the Cren-
shaw chuckle and effective gestures and
intonations of voice. The third floor of
Washington Hall and all Lexington will
be different without the infectious Ollie
laugh. At the history meetings, Ollie prob-
ably knew more people from other col-
leges than anyone else. He made a point
of knowing interesting people who had
written good books or had delightful
personalities. Many men have been in-
vited to speak at Washington and Lee
because he had purposely sought to learn
of their abilities as historians and speakers.

Among the hobbies which Ollie listed
many years ago for the Washington and
Lee public relations office was ‘the cur-
rent American political scene.” ‘This
hobby he pursued throughout his life,
and it was made easy and enjoyable be-
cause of his phenomenal memory. He al-
ways read several newspapers, including
his favorite, the daily New York Times,
and during any political controversy or
election he could readily identify and
relate the background and role of hun-
dreds of state and national figures. He
never went to bed until returns from a
current election were in. As a student of
the Old South, during the racial contro-
versy of recent years he wrote and talked
about what the present South could learn
from mistakes of the pre-Civil War era.

Always and under all circumstances
Ollie was the gentleman and _ gracious
host. When I met his charming mother
on a single visit to their home in Atlanta,
I fully understood the origin of the good
manners which impressed so many peo-
ple. Tolerance was a distinct character-
istic. Differences of opinion might be
met by silence, by witty satire, or by sali-
ent facts, but never in a disagreeable
manner.

His colleagues on the history faculty
will always remember his tolerance and
€ncouragement and his belief that each
teacher should be free to use his own in-
genuity to do the best job possible for
his students. Academic freedom was a
real thing for Ollinger Crenshaw.

—Dr. ALLEN W. MOoGER

Dr. Crenshaw wrote the following ar-
ticle, which he entitled “The Enduring
Assets of Washington and Lee,” for the
1970 Calyx. It is believed to be the last
article concerning Washington and Lee
that he wrote for publication. It is used

here by permission of the co-editors of

the Calyx, Madison F. Cole, Jr., and Tho-

mas W. Clyde:

It has been said that Washington and
Lee is sut generis among American in-
stitutions of higher learning. Although
this statement was made in a well-defined
and limited context, students and alumni
have sometimes inquired into the factors
which have made of their University
something different, something perhaps
rather “special”. Even a cursory examina-
tion of the school’s long history reveals
aspects which have distinguished it from
the run-of-the-mine American college.

First of all, Washington and Lee has
been fortunate in its physical setting. The
initial impression upon a visitor to the
campus is one of serene beauty, sym-
metry, and dignity, which together with
the restored Lee Chapel constitutes a
priceless asset. John Drinkwater, the
British playwright, visiting the campus
about a half-century ago, pronounced it
to be the most beautiful in America. As
important as all this may be, other fea-
tures in the Washington and Lee story
are of greater importance than the physi-
cal characteristics.

Beginning with General R. E. Lee’s
presidency, and extending to the preseni
time, students and alumni have exhibited
a profound pride in their institution, in
its president, its officials, its faculty, and
in its students and graduates. Whenever
any of these won distinction, whether in
public service, in scholarship, or on the
athletic field, such achievements were
certain to be noted in the old Southern
Collegian (now, alas! of blessed memory),
in the Ring-tum Phi, or in the Calyx,
with quiet but heartfelt praise. It is neces-
sary to mention the devotion of “General
Lee’s boys’ to their hero-president, while
his son and successor, G. W. Custis Lee,
though painfully retiring, was held in
affection and respect by the students. To
cite other examples among the Univer-
sity’s presidents who won and held the
admiration, affection, and loyalty of the
young men were the learned and kindly
William Lyne Wilson, the vigorous and
efiicient George H. Denny (who like Gen-
eral R. E. Lee knew each student and
much about him), the high-minded ideal-
ist Henry Louis Smith, and the warm-
hearted, eloquent Pendleton
Gaines. Pride in and enthusiasm for
their youthful President Huntley is a
condition of today’s campus, and is as it
should be. At Washington and Lee, as a

Francis

PEOPLE 323

general rule, the close relationships, even
warm personal friendships, that have
grown up between students and _ their
teachers characterize the school and dis-
tinguish it from the larger mass-produc- .
tion “multiversities’’.

Observers have noted, too, that in
some instances, graduates who have gone
on to further study at other universities
have compared them to Washington and
Lee—and to the advantage of the latter.
One need not be a chauvinist to suggest
to the graduates of 1970, and of the
classes ahead, that they cast a thoughtful
glance at some features of Washington
and Lee which have made it as great as
it is and may become: pride in Alma
Mater’s achievements and _ qualities,
friendliness, a decency in conduct, as
evidenced by the honor system, a sense of
tolerance of personal and _ institutional
shortcomings (tempered, it may be, by
humor), together with zeal and above all,
humility in the learning process. These
may be preserved amidst “change” and
“progress”, and lead Washington and
Lee to the true greatness that is some-
times demanded in our day.

—Dr. OLLINGER CRENSHAW

Professor, Student Killed

William Wells Chaffin, associate pro-
fessor of English and speech and debate
coach, and Kevin R. Baker, a junior from
Lynchburg, Va., died Feb. 22 of in-
juries suffered in an automobile accident
on Interstate 81 near Woodstock,. Va. An-
other student, R. Timothy Wright, a jun-
ior from Beaumont, Texas, was seriously
injured in the accident.

The three were returning to Lexing-
ton from the Dartmouth College Invita-
tional Debate Tournament in Hanover,
N.H., when the car in which they were
riding struck a guardrail. Mr. Baker and
Mr. Wright were co-captains of the Wash-
ington and Lee debate team.

A memorial service for Prof. Chaffin
and Mr. Baker was held in Lee Chapel on
Feb. 25. The funeral and burial of Prof.
Chaffin was in Richmond. Mr. Baker was
buried in Lynchburg following his fun-
eral there.

Mr. Wright is recovering from his in-
juries at his home in Beaumont and will
return to Washington and Lee this fall.

During the 10 years that Prof. Chaffin
directed the debate program, Washington
and Lee debaters amassed more than 100
trophies, and three of his teams qualified

24; PEOPLE

Professor William Chaffin—he filled up “King Tut’s Tomb” with more than

100 trophies directing the debate team.

for the national championship rounds.
His office was so cluttered with glittering
trophies he often referred to it as “King
Tut’s ‘Tomb.”

Mr. Baker, 20, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Raymond Baker, was a 1967 graduate of
Holy Cross High School in Lynchburg.
An Honor Roll student at Washington
and Lee, majoring in history, he was a
member of the student body Executive
Committee and an officer in Kappa AIl-
pha fraternity.

Prof. Chaffin was born in 1930 in
Richmond. He received a bachelor’s de-
gree and a law degree from the Univer-
sity of Richmond and a master’s degree
from the University of Virginia. After
teaching briefly at Madison College and
the University of Virginia, he joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1960. He
is survived by his mother, Mrs. Lucille
W. Chaffin of Richmond.

Prof. Chaffin coached many outstand-
ing debaters at Washington and Lee, in-
cluding Bill Noell and Al Eckes, who in
1963 carried the University to the na-
tional debate championship. A _ Noell-

 

Eckes ‘Trophy is now awarded annually
to the Washington and Lee student who
makes the most notable contribution to
intercollegiate debating.

Mr. Noell and Mr. Eckes furnished the
Alumnus with the following remem-
brances of their teacher, coach, and
friend:

Professor William W. Chaffin was a
man of many and varied talents. Some
will remember him as the man _ prin-
cipally responsible for the Phoenix-like
regeneration of the University’s debating
and forensic programs. Others, mostly his
debaters, will remember fondly the
“Coach” or ‘The Chief,’ the man who
took them to museums, who guided them
around battlefields describing the place-
ment and movement of troops during the
“recent unpleasantness,” who treated
them to their first live symphony concert,
and who in numberless other ways man-
aged to make a debate trip something a
bit extraordinary. Still others will recall
the teacher, slow to criticize and quick
to praise, who developed creditable pub-
lic speakers from young men who had

 

never previously opened their mouths in
class, let alone faced an audience of peers.

But common to all these people will
be the sure recollection of a man who
was at once dedicated, gently demanding,
and humorous.

Bill Chaffin’s life had centered on
Washington and Lee for the past 10
years. In that time, he became increas-
ingly dedicated to seeing that the Uni-
versity fulfilled its promise as a teaching
institution. Perhaps too few students were
aware of the long evening hours he spent
listening to and evaluating the classroom
speeches he had tape recorded. Surely,
too few had any notion of the time he
committed to reading their Dean’s folders
and to discussing their talents, problems,
and aspirations with faculty colleagues.
He cared about the students with whom
he came in contact as people—he acted
on his belief that one of the prime virtues
of a small teaching school is its ability to
instruct the individual student to both
recognize and realize his potential.

His personal concern for students did
not, however, permit him to overlook
their personal failures. Woe betide the
debater who gave less than his best or the
student who was unprepared. Even in
such circumstances, Mr. Chaffin’ was
neither explosive nor vituperative; more
often than not, he was hurt. For he typic-
ally saw in his students’ performances a
reflection of his ability to motivate them.
As a consequence, he worked harder
than before, gently demanding and en-
couraging his students to match his ex-
ample.

For all of that, he was possessed of
a rare sense of humor. He took neither
himself nor others too seriously. This side
of Mr. Chaffin was probably best known
to his debaters; when a concert, a mus-
eum, or a tour failed to relieve the ten-
sion induced by a major tournament,
the Chaffin wit, usually directed at one
or more of our foibles, would inevitably
break the ice.

His contributions to the institution
during his too brief tenure were marked.
His death is surely a severe loss to the
University family and community. But
to those who knew and had worked with
and for this man, his passing is a personal
tragedy.

We will long remember and treasure
our association with Professor Chaffin—
the man who measured his achievement
by our own.

—BILt NoELL, ’64 —AL EcKEs, ’64

A Tribute to Class Agents

Within the Washington and Lee family there are
many ways to serve the University. Each alumnus is a
reflection of Washington and Lee in his community, and
the University is justly proud of its family record. Of
course, there are more direct ways to help the University
—not the least of which is participation in the Annual
Fund. Each of us can and should, within our means, par-
ticipate to the fullest. And to all who have contributed
to the Annual Fund, I extend most sincere thanks.

But here I would like to pay special tribute to our
Class Agents. The names of these “unsung” heroes are
listed below. They are men who are making an extra
effort that is so important to Washington and Lee. Their
work, their families, their community activities are
enough to keep them abundantly occupied. They all con-
tribute to the Annual Fund. In addition, they have an
extra sense of responsibility that causes them to work as
Class Agents to further the welfare of Washington and
Lee. I salute them!

I salute them because, at a time when a gulf seems to
be widening between people and their institutions, they
are doing all they can to bridge the gap and rally support
for Washington and Lee. The value of their activities to
the University cannot be overstated.

ALUMNI 25

While each is primarily concerned with getting each
member of his class to contribute to the best of his ability,
each Class Agent is also occupied in finding methods of
increasing understanding of the University among
alumni. And it is only through such understanding and
support that private institutions like Washington and
Lee can be sustained.

Unfortunately, apathy apparently affects a large per-
centage of alumni. How else can one explain the hard
fact that today an average of only one out of three mem-
bers of the Washington and Lee family supports the
University financially?

I do not wish to imply that the responsibility for this
situation falls on the broad shoulders of the Class Agents.
No indeed. It is a responsibility that must be shared by
all elements of the University—the Trustees, the admini-
stration, the faculty, the students, and every member of
the family. What I am emphasizing is that our Class
Agents are in the forefront of the effort to create univer-
sal support. ‘They put long, hard hours into this effort.
‘They need our help. ‘They deserve our deepest thanks.

—WILLIAM C. WASHBURN

Alumni Secretary

1969-1970 CLASS AGENTS

1917-L Robert R. Kane
1920-A Edward G. Bailey*

1921-A C. G. Gordon Moss
1921-L Howard K. Gibbons
1922-A Wilfred B. Webb
1922-IL, Love B. Rouse
1923-A Joel W. McDonald
1923-L J. G. Ragsdale
1924-A Glenn Stoutt
1924-L W. Clyde Dennis
1925-A Martin Spector
1925-L_ George T. Clark
1926-A John D. Mayhew
1926-L Earle A. Cadmus

1927-A R. S. Barnett 1943 W..J. Noonan

1927-L J. DeWeese Carter 1944 E. S. Humphreys, Jr.
1928-A Wilton M. Garrison 1945 L. Gordon Miller, Jr.
1928-L W. P. Woodley 1946 Frank C. Brooks
1929-A George H. Goodwin 1947 Harold T. Chittum, Jr.

1929-L Samuel C. Strite

1935-L J. Howell Glover
1936-A George W. Harrison
1920-L Max R. Broudy 1936-L Warren E. ‘Tilson

1948-A Walter B. Potter

1954-A James C. Conner
1954-L Gil Bocetti
1955-A Pegram Harrison

1937-A Everett A. Martin 1955-L William J. McGhee
1937-L James A. Blalock
1938-A Powell Glass, Jr.
1938-L Henry TI. Merritt
1939-A William King Self
1939-L John B. Pearson
1940-A Jackson G. Akin, Jr.
1940-L William S. Burns
1941-A Kenneth B. Van de Water, Jr. 1959-L Claude D. Carter
1941-L Ralph Keehn
1942-A Frank L. LaMotte
1942-L John J. Mangan

1956-A William C. Norman, Jr.
1956-L Claude W. Nicholson
1957-A Richard C. Whiteford
1957-L Stephen N. Quillen
1958-A John A. Groobey

1958-L Richard D. Haynes
1959-A ‘Thomas H. Broadus, Jr.

1960-A Frank S. Glaser

1960-L G. O. Clemens

1961-A William T. Buice

1961-L Warren R. Welsh

1962-A Steve H. Suttle

1962-L Raymond R. Robrecht, Jr.
1963-A Thomas N. Rains

1963-L Jay W. Johnson

1964-A E. H. Hollman

1930-A Earl T. Jones 1948-L William M. Harrelson 1964-L Barry W. Kerchner

1930-L Franklin L. Shipman
1931-A George H. Jenkins
1931-L Manuel M. Weinberg
1932-4 C, Edmonds Allen
1932-L Henry W. MacKenzie, Jr.

1949-A Richard M. Yankee, Jr.
1949-L J. Randolph Larrick
1950-A Oliver M. Mendell
1950-L George H. Gray
1951-A Andrew B. Gallagher

1965-A Richard R. Kreitler
1965-L James E. Kulp
1966-A Kemble White, III
1966-L Baxter L. Davis
1967-A Charles M. Myers

1933-A Charles J. Longacre, Jr. 1951-L Albert F. Knight 1967-L Charles C. Bowie

1933-L, John L. Ericson

1952-A Melville Hicks, Jr.

1968-A E. Ellis Zahra, Jr.

1934-A W. Gilbert Faulk 1952-L Clifton T. Hunt, Jr. 1968-L Joseph W. Brown

1934-L Robert D. Bailey
1935-A Samuel C. Mattox

 

1953-A Gray C. Castle
1953-L Robert E. Glenn

 

1969-A Robert O. Bauer, Jr.

1969-L

Eric Lee Sisler

*Deceased March 5, 1970

y] | Dean and

8 pecial guests

ting ‘March 6

@ % ourts Resutane in

Newpert Nes ew Va. ‘Dean Steinheimer
addressed his rematis to matters concern-
| the School | of Law, and Joe Tompkins
t vice president of the student bod lked

Janiel W. Wilkineon, pr 38,

0 ted the chapter's new officers—presi-
Beazlie, Jr., ’40; vice

sident | Dr. B. Voss Neal, ’51; and secre-
. Spencer, Jee ’59.

March 6 at the
a, and semua

 

 

     

 

’ \

WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, °41.
Price: $37.00 f.0.b.

Gardner, Massachusetts

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

CLASS NOTES

1914

At the g5th annual dinner of the Inde-
pendent Retail Food Dealers Association of
Cumberland, Md., J. GooDLOE JACKSON was
presented the coveted “Mr. Western Mary-
land” award. Jackson not only was honored
for his years of service to the association,
but also for his more than 40 years of com-
munity service, including membership on
the Board of Education and leadership in
4 number of other civic organizations.

1917

After retirement in 1964 from chairmanship
of the department of pathology at Duke
Medical School, Dr. WitEy D. Forsus con-
tinues as emeritus consultant to the de-
partment staff. He is engaged chiefly in
Writing and has just completed a history of
medical science in North Carolina. In 1961-
62, Dr. Forbus was on leave from Duke to

direct the University of California’s pro-
gram of medical education in Indonesia.

1918

JouNn DupLey McCreapy is a retired Baptist
minister living sometimes at his summer
cottage in Black Mountain, N.C., and some-
times in Ocala, Fla. In addition, he has
also taught at two junior colleges—Chowan
College and Central Florida Junior College.
He was pastor of several churches, spend-
ing 17 years at the First Baptist Church in
Morganton, N.C. Since retirement in 1956,
McCready has published several religious and
secular articles and papers,

1920

Retiring after 30 years with the United
Fuel Gas Co., where he was assistant vice
president for public relations, CARL K. GIL-
CHRIST is now director of public relations
for Morris Harvey College and is also secre-
tary of the Morris Harvey Board of Trustees.

1922

Dr. Harry Lyons has just opened one of the
most modern dental teaching facilities in
America, complete with closed-circuit color
television. The facility is located at the
Virginia Commonwealth University which
recently resulted from a merger of the
Medical College of Virginia with Richmond
Prcfessional Institute. Dr. Lyons has been
dean of the dental school for the past 20
years. He has been president of the Ameri-
can Dental Association, the American Col-
lege of Dentists, the American Association
of Dental Schools, the American Academy
of Periodontology, and the Virginia State
Dental Association.

1923

Since 1958, when he retired from the USS.
Air Force, Cot. WILLIAM M. HAMPTON has
kept busy with public accounting and tax
work.

JosEPH R. Lone began law practice with the
St. Louis firm of Fordyce, Mayne, Hartman,
Renard, & Stribling in 1935. He has been a
partner of the firm since 1947.

1924

CrypeE N. ALLEN is completing four years as
president of the Richmond Council Navy
League. The council is the second largest in
the nation.

1929

After 35 years of medical practice, Dr.
JAMes G. SMITH is now superintendent of
schools for Hardee County, Florida.

M. R. Bruin, JR., keeps active in the Masonic
Lodge, Lions, and Ruritan clubs. In the
summers, he manages his 315-acre cattle farm
in Draper, Va., and spends his winters in
Clearwater, Fla. Bruin also is active in the
Farm Bureau Federation.

1926

After more than 40 years in the news pro-

CLASS NOTES 327

fession, CHARLES H. HAMILTON is now as-
sistant to the president of Richmond News-
papers, Inc. He is chairman and in_ his
eighth year on the board of the Federal
Home Loan Bank of Greensboro, N.C.
Hamilton lives in Richmond, where he is
also president of the Hermitage Country
Club.

Harris C. Moore, Sr., has been in the teach-
ing profession for 44 years. For 16 years, he
taught in high schools, and in colleges for
28 years. He is currently professor of biology
at El Camino College in California.

T. T. Moore has retired as senior vice presi-
dent-finance, treasurer, and board member
of Shenandoah Life Insurance Co. after 23
years of service. Moore, who once worked
for General Electric Co., became vice presi-
dent and controller of the company in 1954.
He moved up to financial vice president,
treasurer, a member of the board, and, in
1967, he became senior vice president-finance.
Moore was also treasurer and director of the
Shenandoah Life stations. He is a member
of the Roanoke City School Board, a di-

 

NOTICE TO
ALUMNI

The nominating commit-
tee, appointed by the Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni,
Inc., nominates for election
to the Alumni Board of
Directors, at a meeting of
the corporation to be held at
10:45 a.m. on May 9g, 1970,
in Lee Chapel, the follow-
ing:
eT. Hal Clarke, °38, of
116 Prince Street, Alexan-
dria, Va. 22314

@ William H. Hillier, ’38,
of 321 West Lincoln Ave-
nue, Wheaton, III. 60187

@ J. Peter G. Muhlenberg,
M.D., ‘50, of 212 Cherry
Drive, Wyomissing, Pa.
19610

For alumni representative
on the University Commit-
tee on Intercollegiate Ath-
letics, the committee nomi-
nates Gilbert S. Meem, ’38,
of 1400 Lebanon Street,
Bluefield, W.Va. 24701

The nominating commit-
tee includes Michael P.
Crocker, ’40 (chairman), W.
Temple Webber, Jr., °54,
and A. H. Hamel, ’so.

 

 

 

4B; CLASS NOES

rector of Virginia Industrial Corp., and the
Foundation for Independent Junior Colleges
in Virginia. Moore, a past president of the
Roanoke Valley Chamber of Commerce,
twice was campaign manager of the Roa-
noke Valley Red Cross, and president of the
Blue Ridge Boy Scout Council.

1927

FANNING M. HEARON, after 4o years in the
newspaper, radio, and motion picture busi-
ness, has retired to Tryon, N.C., where he is
active as a diocesan official, lay reader, and
warden in the Episcopal Church, and as
trustee of the Tryon Fine Arts Center.

WILLIAM M. Pope is vice president of the
National Bank & Trust Co. of Charlottes-
ville, Va,

1928

GERALD F. Horine has retired from Ford
Motor Co. after 31 years of service.

1929

Harry E. Gopwin has been appointed chair-
man of the Blues Festival for the 1970
Memphis Cotton Carnival. Recently, he was
awarded a prize for his song “My Memphis
Baby” by the American Society of Com-
posers, Authors, and Publishers.

1930

SHUFORD R. NicHots of Des Arc, Ark., is
chairman of the Board of Trustees of Ar-
kansas College.

JouNn P. Lyncnu has been appointed director
of the Virginia Blue Cross Plan. He is also
vice president of the St. Luke’s Hospital
Corp., and president of Virginia Medicare-
Medicaid Council, all based in Richmond,

JAMEs N. Hess of Newton, Conn., is a cost
accountant with the Barden Corp. of Dan-
bury, Conn. Planning to retire in about four
years, he anticipates settling in Virginia or
North Carolina.

Recently, JupGE Roperr E. Crapp, Jr., of
Frederick, Md., was named to the new post of
Circuit Administrative Judge for the 6th
Judicial Circuit of Maryland. The new posi-
tion is a state effort to improve court ad-
ministration.

1931

DUNCAN MCCONNFLL was recently elected a
Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. McCon-
nell has retired from Councils of Interna-
tional Association of Dental Research and
from the American Association for Advance-
ment of Science. Living in Columbus, Ohio,
he is working on a manuscript of his ad-
ventures in Mexico.

B. M. Osowl!tTz is retired and living in Pom-
pano Beach, Fla., where he is doing private
research in biochemistry.

Houston M. MINNIECE of Jackson, Miss., is
executive vice president of the Williams
State Insurance Agency.

1932

WILLIAM E. MALONE is a contract admini-
strator for the Food and Drug Administra-
tion in Washington, D.C.

1933

After 19 years of service, Gray W. Hume,
Jr., has retired from the Internal Revenue
Service. He is currently assistant administra-
tor for finance at the Alexandria, Va., hospi-
tal.

WILLIAM J. Brooks, Jr., is still in Dallas
and traveling the Southeast as fleet sales
manager for Pontiac Motor Division.

Dr. EpwArp E. FERGUSON was recently elected
to the executive committee of the American
Urological Association. He is currently clini-
cal professor of urology at George Wash-
ington University’s School of Medicine. Dr.
Feguson is also consultant in urology to the
Veterans Administration and is liason of-
ficer from the AUA to the Surgeon General
of the U.S. Air Force.

1935

Taking an early retirement after 22 years
with Standard Oil Co., JOHN D. Sponr is
now administrative manager with Entrekin
Computers, Inc. of Fenton, Mich.

1936

MARRIAGE: Hucu J. BonINo to Mrs. Mar-
guerite Brugler Worrell on Sept. 5 in Beth-
lehem, Pa.

Epwarp A. TURVILLE, a prominent St. Peters-
burg, Fla., lawyer, school board attorney,
former U.S. Lawn Tennis Association presi-
dent, and outstanding player, is the new
captain of the 1970 U.S. Davis Cup team.
A feature article on Turville will be in-
cluded in the next issue of the Alumnus.

Having been with Western Electric Co. for
33 years, STUART T. MILLER was recently
transferred to Phoenix, where he is general
manager for the company’s cable plant.

1937

After 32 years with Richmond newspapers,
ERNEST C. BARRETT, Jr., has retired. He re-
mains active with community assignments.

After retirement from the U.S. Navy, STEP-
HEN B. Leer is currently serving as director
of auxiliary enterprises at George Washing-
ton University,

1938

After a master’s degree from Colgate Uni-
versity and a Ph.D. from the University of
Virginia, Dr. THomMaAs A. MALLoy, JR., began
teaching at Longwood College in 1949. He
has been in college and university teaching
since then, and is currently professor of
sociology and coordinator of social work
education at Ferris State College in Big
Rapids, Mich.

Harry M. PHILpoTtT, president of Auburn
University, was awarded an honorary doctor

  

   
     
   
  
  
  
  
      
    
   
  
 
 

of laws degree by the University of Florida
during commencement ceremonies in De.
cember. Dr. Philpott served as an assistant —
and associate professor of religion at the
University of Florida from 1947-52. He was —
dean of religious life and head of the dal
partment of religion and Philosophy at
Stephens College in Columbia, Mo., durin
1952-57. He returned to the University of
Florida in 1957 as vice president, a POSsition
he held until 1965 when he was named
president of Auburn. Dr. Philpott also holds
an honorary doctor of divinity degree from
Washington and Lee, which he received in
1966.

1939

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. TuHorton R, CLEEK, a

son, James Ritenour, on April 4, 1969. Cleek
was recently named president-elect of the
North Carolina Academy of General Practice,

 

 

Dr. Archibald P. Stuart, ’39

THomas W. Moses, president of the Indiana-
polis Water Co., has been named chairman of |
the annual Brotherhood Awards Dinner of —
the Indiana region of the National Con-

ference of Christians and Jews. Moses is a

member of the Board of Trustees of Marion

College, and of the Stadium Task Force of

the Greater Indianapolis Progress Commit

tee.

Dr. ALEXANDER BLAIN, III, missed his goth
class reunion in October, as he and his
wife, Macy, were on an East African Safari.
On the safari, Dr. Blain shot an elephant im
‘Tanzania.

An executive of Sun Oil Co., Dr. ARCHI-
BALD P. StuART has been appointed to a key
post in the company’s new corporate PFO" —
jects group. Dr. Stuart will become director —
of the commercial development department.
He joined Sun Oil as a research chemist in
1941. In 1963, he was appointed chief of the
applied research section. Dr. Stuart was
named assistant to the director of commer
cial development in the research and es
neering department in 1965, and in 19
was made manager of new product planning
in that group, He became director of com
mercial development in 1969.

 

 

1940

The August floods in the James River Basin
severely damaged the drug store owned by
Tom E. Bruce, Jr., in Scottsville, Va. The
floods from Hurricane Camille rose 84% feet
inside the store. Bruce completed rehabilita-
tion of his business in February.

The Rome-Utica, N.Y. area recently held
a celebration in honor of MAj. GEN. FRANK-
LIN A. NICHOLS, commander of the ground
electronics engineering installation at Griffiss
AFB. The occasion was to acknowledge Gen.
Nichols’ service to the community, and in-
cluded guest THomAs H. McCuTCHEON, ’40,
vice president of Riverside Press in Boston,
Mass.

194]

BENTON M. WAKEFIELD, JR., has recently been
appointed to the executive council of the
American Bankers Association which serves
as the governing body that represents more
than 13,000 banks throughout the United
States. Benton has been president of the
Mercantile National Bank of Indiana in
Hammond since February, 1963.

RICHARD M. HENDRON has retired from the
U.S. Foreign Service and moved to Florida
where he expects to teach in a junior col-
lege or a university,

GrEorcE B. Kerr, a realtor in Bennettsville,
S.C., has been elected chairman of the
Board of Trustees of the Marlboro County
General Hospital where he has served on the
board for 18 years and on its executive com-
mittee for eight years. Kerr is also in the
grain and soybean business.

1942

RICHARD A. BRUNN, who is an _ insurance
representative and who lives in Upper
Saddle River, N.J., has just been named
governor of the New York Athletic Club.

Practicing law in Alamogordo, N.M., JOHN
JoE WILKINSON was elected president of the
New Mexico State Bar for the 1969 term.

Rosert T. VAUGHAN has just completed two
terms as president of the Halifax Country
Club, In July, 1969, he became a member
of the council of the Virginia State Bar.

In the mercantile and real estate business,
WALTER L. MONROE is serving his 13th year
as town commissioner for Millsboro, Del.

1943

Dr. HAvEN W. MANKIN of Oklahoma City is
president-elect of the Oklahoma State Radio-
logical Society. He is secretary-treasurer of
the Oklahoma County Medical Society, as
well as a member of its Board of Directors.

Frank R. BELL, Jr., formerly assistant vice
President of Insurance Company of North
America, has been named executive vice
President of American Agency Management
Bureau, Inc. Bell joined INA in 1961 as di-
rector of agency affairs, and was elected as-
Sistant secretary in 1964 and secretary in
1966. Most recently, he was head of the

—

INA agency department. In 1955, Bell re-
ceived the Presidential Citation from the
National Association of Insurance Agents,

The executive editor of the Roanoke Times
and the Roanoke World-News, BARTON W.
Morris, JRr., has been elected first vice chair
man of the Virginia Associated Press. Morris
joined the World-News as a reporter in
1945. He became executive editor of the two
newspapers in 1955, and in 1960 was named
a vice president of the Times-World Corp-
oration.

Living on Staten Island, ARTHUR ‘THOMPSON,
Jr., is working in Newark, N.J., as acting
manager of the Newark branch of Fireman’s
Fund American Insurance Companies.

1944

Dr. Liroyp H. SmirTH, Jr., has been elected
president of the American Society of Clini-
cal Investigation and also of the Western
Society for Clinical Research. In 1970, he
and his family will live in Geneva, Switzer-
land where Dr. Smith will be a_ visiting
professor at the University of Geneva.

Cot. A. LupDLAM MICHAUx, JR., recently re-
tired from the U.S. Marine Corps, is the
director of development at McDonogh School
in the suburbs of Baltimore. His last as-
signment was on the faculty of the USS.
Army War College in Carlisle, Pa.

In April, 1969, REV. JoHN N. McCormick
became executive director of the Interna-
tional Center in New York City. This organi-
zation serves a large number of sponsored
guests from approximately 95 different
countries, It provides a club atmosphere,
helps with English language problems, and
provides free theater and concert tickets and
other cultural and educational benefits for
its members.

1945

RosBerT H. BERTINI is a sales representative
with McCoy Lumber Industries of Greens-
boro, N.C.

ELLIOT SCHEWEL and JIMMY ‘TAYLOR, °41,
are among the nine organizers of the new
Jefferson National Bank of Lynchburg. The
office is expected to open in July. Schewel
is vice president of Schewel Furniture Co.

E. DEAN Finny is president and general man-
ager of WIWN of St. Johnsbury, Vt., and
WIKE of Newport, Vt. He is a member of
the St. Johnsbury School Board and is cur-
rently serving his fourth year of a six-
year term on the State Board of Education.
Finney is also chairman of a building com-
mittee for a new area vocational and techni-
cal center in St, Johnsbury.

1946

Don Murray, former news director of
WODBJ-TV in Roanoke, has been named
Richmond correspondent for the station.

Murray, a veteran of 21 years of broadcast
journalism in Virginia, will cover news of
state government and politics for the sta-
tion.

CLASS NOTES :29

1948

CARTER R. ALLEN is a partner in the Waynes-
boro, Va., firm of Allen & Dalton. He is
city attorney and was formerly Common-
wealth’s Attorney.

Members of the Virginia Associated Press
have elected WALTER B. POTTER, publisher
of the Culpeper Star-Exponent, as chairman
of the organization.

1949

FRANK R. Vass is vice president and sales
manager of Pulaski Furniture Corp.

RoseErRT S. [Rons resigned as assistant USS. at-
torney for the Western District of Virginia
on Jan. 31 and has been appointed special
assistant to the Supreme Court of Appeals
of Virginia. Irons’ primary duty is expected
to be the review of petitions for appeal in
criminal and habeas corpus cases, the hear-
ing of oral arguments, and recommendations
to the Supreme Court for disposition of the
petitions. Prior to his appointment as as-
sistant U.S. attorney, he practiced law in
Roanoke and Radford. Irons has been a
member of the Radford City Council and
chairman of the Radford City Democratic
Committee.

In Raleigh, N.C., B. C. ALLEN, JR., is head of
the North Carolina Bank trust department.
He is also a director of the North Carolina
State University Foundation.

1950

Since 1958, Dr. PETER MUHLENBERG has been
practicing pediatrics in Reading, Pa. Dr.
Muhlenberg is active in the YMCA camp
and international camper program, and is
a member of the Board of Directors of the
Chamber of Commerce.

With the U.S. Information Agency, R. DAB-
NEY CHAPMAN has completed two years as
chief of the European division of Voice of
America. He is now assigned to the Foreign
Service Institute for Serbo-Croation langu-
age training, prior to an assignment in
Yugoslavia.

Formerly with Randolph Rouse, ’39, STUART
S. BaItLey has recently opened his own real
estate office in Falls Church, Va. He and his
wife, Piri, are engaged in residential sales
and general brokerage, in addition to build-
ing custom homes within the area.

After graduation, Dr. W, PAUL BENNETT
received his degree from the Medical Col-
lege of Virginia in 1956. Following a year of
internship at Union Memorial Hospital in
Baltimore and two years with the U.S. Air
Force when he was awarded the Commenda-
tion Medal for service in Taiwan, Bennett
did his residency in obstetrics and gyneco-
logy in Columbia, S.C.

Announcement has been made of the ap-
pointment of Francrs A. Hare, JRr., as chief
probation officer for the Richmond Juvenile
Domestic Relations Court. Hare is now
chief probation officer for the same court in
Henrico County. Hare has been with the

 

30:CLASS NOTES

Henrico courts since June, 1959, when he
left a position as case work supervisor for
the city’s Juvenile and Domestic Relations
Court.

In November, 1969, Guy W. CHAMBERLIN,
JR., joined Mattack, Inc., a subsidiary of
Rollins International, Inc., as vice president
for finance and treasurer. He is also a mem-
ber of the Board of Directors.

WILLIAM E. QUISENBERRY has established a
law office in Calhoun, Ky. Recently, he was
re-elected to a fifth term as attorney for
McLean County.

 

Order it from the
Washington and Lee
Bookstore and save!

@ Alumni may purchase
books through the Washing-
ton and Lee University
Bookstore at a discount of
10%, plus postage.

@ Mail orders will be filled
promptly. If a book is not
in stock, it will be ordered
and mailed to the purchaser
from the store.

e The Bookstore will at-
tempt to locate out-of-print
books and keep the cus-
tomer informed of the pro-
gress of the search.

@ When placing a mail
order, an alumnus should
note his class date after his
signature.
Some books are to be tasted,
others to be swallowed, and
some few to be chewed and di-
gested.
—BAcon

@ Whether your taste in
books is light or heavy,
the University Bookstore is
ready to help you reduce the
cost of your reading diet.
Send your order directly to:

Manager, The Bookstore

Washington and Lee

University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

1951

DAVE WOLF, JR., is vice president of South-
eastern Aviation Underwriters and Irby-Sea-
well Co., managing general agents in At-
lanta, Ga.

EDWARD P. BASsETT will be acting chairman
of the department of journalism at the Uni-
versity of Michigan until June, 1970. In
July, he will become dean of the William
Allen White School of Journalism at the
University of Kansas.

The president of Glenmore Distillers Co.
announces that JAcK E. KANNAPELL, Jr.,
former vice president for advertising, has
been named vice president for corporate re-
lations. In this capacity, Kannapell will be
responsible for the general image of Glen-
more and its subsidiaries through the im-
plementation and monitoring of the Ken-
tucky firm’s public, trade, and financial re-
lations programs. Additionally, Kannapell
will serve as advertising and packaging co-
ordinator for all subsidiaries. Kannapell
joined Glenmore in 1965, and was named
vice president for advertising in 1967, a
position he will retain. He is a member of
Glenmore’s management committee.

J. F. GALLIVAN is moving to Nashville, where
he will be with J. C. Bradford & Co. as a
partner in the institutional department.
Previously, he was resident manager of the
Greenville, S.C. office.

1952

BORN: The No. 1 baby of 1970 in Chicago
was Jody Leigh Harris, the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. THomas N. Harris. She was born
five seconds after midnight at the Passavant
Hospital.

BORN: Rev. and Mrs. Ropert D. SCHEN-
KEL, JR., a son, Stuart Pearson, on Oct. 15.
Schenkel is on the staff at St. Andrews
Church in Kansas City, Mo., working pri-
marily in the areas of christian education
and program development.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. LEstTerR E. ZITTRAIN,
a son, Jonathan Lee, on Dec. 24.

JosEPpH B. YANITy, a partner in the Athens,
Ohio, law firm of Lavelle & Yanity, has been
honored with membership in the Trustees’
Academy at Ohio University. The Trustees’
Academy is the school’s major donor society.
Yanity has been practicing law in Athens
since 1941. He often officiates Mid-American
Conference football games.

In April, 1969, W. D. McGrew moved to
Atlanta, where he is a partner in Montag
& Caldwell, an investment counsel firm.’

Vicror E. BEHRENS, JR., is an art director at
William Esty advertising agency in New
York City.

Recently sworn in as judge of the 7th Judi-
cial District was WiLtiAM G. Fuqua of
Russellville, Ky. Prior to his election as
circuit court judge, he was city attorney for
Russellville for 10 years. Fuqua was also
named a Man-of-the-Year in Logan County,
one of seven men so honored for their con-

tribution to the development of the new
Boy Scout reservation and Russellville lake.

After three years in charge of Sylvania’s
educational hardware program, THomas R.
SHEPHERD has been appointed manager of
Sylvania’s training service. In this capacity,
he will direct the program for developing,
marketing, and providing training courses
and contracts for industry, government, and
the disadvantaged.

LESTER E. ZITTRAIN, an attorney from Pitts-
burgh, Pa., was one of two lawyers to handle
negotations for Pistol Pete Maravich with
the Atlanta Hawks of the NBA. Maravich
reportedly received $1.9 million from the
club, with terms of the contract to run over
a five-year span. Zittrain, during a press con-
ference announcing the signing, called Pistol
Pete “unquestionably the greatest basket-
ball player in the world, unquestionably the
best who ever lived.” The Hawks, according
to sources, beat a deal offered by the ABA
Carolina Cougers calling for a multiyear con-
tract of $2 million and a chain of Pistol
Pete Hamburger Courts throughout the
South. Maravich was the No. g choice in
the NBA draft.

First & Merchants National Bank of Rich-
mond, Va., has recently named Epwarp C.
DARLING its executive vice president for re-
tail banking and regional administration.
Darling joined First & Merchants in 1956.
Prior to his recent promotion, he was senior
vice president of the bank. Darling has serv-
ed on the Men’s Advisory Board of the Vir-
ginia Home, as director and president of the
Family and Children’s Service of Richmond,
Inc., and as a trustee of the Collegiate
School.

1953

MARRIED: WILLIAM WATTS BLANTON, JR.,
to Rosetta Barlow Averill on Sept. 27 in
New York City.

CHARLES J, FRIEDLANDER is currently a high
school guidance counselor and is working
towards his Ph.D. in guidance at George
Washington University.

F. M. Bopsitr is engineering manager at
Revere electronics division of Nepture Meter
Co. in Wallingford, Conn.

Currently, W. E. RAwtincs is director for
Northern Europe for General Foods Inter-
national, and he is headquartered in Ham-
burg, Germany,

1954

MARRIED: GIiLBErT BOCcETTI, Jr., to Billie
Carr Williamson on Dec. 20 in Atlanta, Ga.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM C. WILLIAMS,
a daughter, Susanna McLeod, on Oct. 2.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs C. CONNER, a
daughter, Catherine, on Jan. 13. Conner is in
the legal department of the International
Finance Corp. in Washington.

West Point-Pepperell, Inc., one of the na-
tions major textile manufacturing companies,
has named JosepH L. LANIER, JR., executive

y 2»
4)

vice president, with offices in New York
City. Lanier joined the company in 1957
after attending Harvard Business School.
Since October, 1968, he has served as presi-
dent of the company’s industrial fabrics
division in New York.

Dr. Roy C. HERRENKOHL, Jr., associate pro-
fessor of social psychology and methodology
at Lehigh University, has coedited a collec-
tion of essays by distinguished scholars who
lectured at Lehigh during the 1968-69 aca-
demic year. The book, entitled Seven on
Black, is published by J. B. Lippincott Co.

JoHN M, BLUME is an attorney in Scotch
Plains, N.J., specializing in negligence and
workman’s compensation matters.

CHARLES G. RAUH is vice president of North-
ern Ohio Paving Co.

Dr. THOMAS J. KENNY received his Ph.D.
from Catholic University in June, 1969. Re-
cently, he was promoted to assistant pro-
fessor of pediatric psychology at the Uni-
versity of Maryland Medical School.

ARTHUR DEAN Guy has moved to Richmond,
where he is area manager for Burdett Oxy-
gen Co.

Still serving as athletic director and _la-
crosse coach at Lebanon Valley College,
Witt1iAM D. McHenry has been elected
president of the U.S. Lacrosse Coaches As-
sociation.

1955

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. WATSON BOwEs, Jr.,
a daughter, Lucia, on July 13, 1969. Bowes is
currently assistant professor of obstetrics and

DN eee

gynecology at the University of Colorado
Medical Center.

RosBert M. CULLERS, director and proprietor
of Writers: Free-Lance, has announced that
his company will become a_ wholly-owned
subsidiary of Venture-Data Corp. of Con-
shohocken, Pa. Cullers will become president
and chief operating officer of the subsidiary,
as well as a director of the parent corpora-
tion. Writers: Free Lance, a company which

has more than 2,000 professional writers reg-
istered from all over the U.S. and 4o foreign
countries, serves as a source of professional
writers, editors, researchers, artists, and
photographers for business, advertising, pub-
lic relations, publishing, editorial, and many
other fields. Cullers was formerly managing
editor of employee publications for Atlantic
Richfield Co. in Philadelphia, and he is
now serving as vice president of the Ameri-
can Association of Industrial Editors.

After serving with the 4th Armored Division
as Deputy Staff Judge Advocate, Maj.
CHARLES J. BALDREE will complete a_ three-
year tour in Germany. He was one of the
first military judges authorized by the Mili-
tary Justice Act of 1968. Baldree is also ac-
tive in Scouting, and is chairman and ad-
visor for an Explorer post devoting its time
to the study of law enforcement and judicial
proceedings.

CHARLES F. PATTERSON, JR., has been pro-
moted to vice president of the Trust Co. of
Georgia in Atlanta. He is serving a_ three-
year term on the Board of Governors of the
Consumer Bankers Association.

HAROLD J. BLACKSIN is plant manager of the
Front Royal (Va.) Garment Co,

 

These Washington and Lee lawyers—Jeffrey N. Sheehan, ’69, Alvin N. Wartman, ’51, and
Joseph W. Brown, ’68—are all practicing in Las Vegas, Nev. Until October, Wartman was
On the 8th Judicial District Court of Nevada and also juvenile judge for Clark County.
Brown was Wartman’s law clerk until July, when he was replaced by Sheehan. Wartman,
after leaving the bench, became a partner in the firm of Lionel, Sawyer, & Wartman, and
Sheehan became a clerk with that firm. Brown, meantime, was admitted to the Nevada Bar
4nd is associated with the firm of Laxalt, Bell, Berry, Allison, & LeBaron.

CLASS NOTES -31

JOHN W. STACKHOUSE was promoted in De-
cember to group vice president of the Trust
Co. of Georgia, in charge of branch office
administration.

1956

BORN: Mkr. and Mrs. DAN B. Moore, a son,
Jonathan Barrons, on Jan. 21.

The tri-state sales manager, hospital division,
for Huntington Laboratories, Inc. is GEORGE
E. SCHUMACKER.

While representing the Lincoln National
Life Insurance Co., CHARLES R. BEALL of
Martinsburg, W.Va., received the National
Quality Award for the sixth year. Beall is
vice president of the Martinsburg Rotary
Club and is currently serving as district
chairman of the Potomac District, Shenan-
doah Area Council of the Boy Scouts of
America.

In December, 1969, JOHN K. OAsT was named
cashier of Merchants & Farmers Bank of
Portsmouth, Va. He is also operations officer
of the bank. Oast was recently named vice
president of the Portsmouth United Fund.

1957

In August, 1969, CHARLES B. RICHARDSON was
promoted by United Airlines to co-pilot of
the B-727 out of San Francisco. He also made
a trip to Rota, Spain while on two weeks of
active duty with the Navy Reserve Air
Squadron based at Alameda, Calif.

J. MicHAEL GARNER has been elected senior
vice president and assistant to the president
of the First State Bank of Miami. He is also
a member of the Board of Trustees of Flori-
da Presbyterian College.

Dr. Cart F. BARNES, JR., associate professor
in the department of art history at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin, has been selected for
listing in the 1970 edition of National Bio-
graphy of Achievement in Education. He
has also been elected a Fellow of the Ameri-
can Council of Learned Societies and will
be in France heading excavations in the
Cathedral of Soissons during a period from
July, 1970 to January, 1971.

1958

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS PATRICK
O'BRIEN, JR., a son, Christopher Wuaetlet, on
Dec. 29 in Charleston, W.Va.

PuHitip H. WEEKs, Jr., has been appointed
manager of the Baltimore brokerage office of
Connecticut General Life Insurance Co.
Weeks joined Connecticut General in 1964 as
a brokerage consultant in Philadelphia. He
was advanced to senior brokerage consultant
in 1966, and the following year was named
assistant manager, in charge of the Wilkes-
Barre office.

The Board of Trustees of Penbroke Country
Day School of Kansas City, Mo. has announc-
ed the appointment of SHELDON CLARK, II,
as director of development and alumni _ af-
fairs. Clark, formerly with the Westminister
School of Simsbury, Conn., was with Read-

 

§2;CLASS NOYES

er’s Digest magazine in New York before en-
tering the academic world.

In October, 1967, RopcER P. DoyLE moved
to Tampa, Fla., to accept the position of
executive vice president with the National
Bank of Tampa. Doyle is chairman of the
department of business regulation for the
state of Florida. In addition, he has just
been named to the Florida Council of 100,
a semi-official organization to promote new
industries and jobs in Florida.

Dr. IRWIN R, BERMAN was released from ac-
tive duty in July, 1969 with the rank of
major in the Marine Corps. His duty in-
cluded a tour with the Army Medical Re-
search Team in Vietnam and the Walter
Reed Army Institute of Research. Dr. Ber-
man is currently an assistant professor of
surgery at New York University Medical
School.

The Niagara Frontier Bank of Buffalo, N.Y.,
has recently elected MAtcotm A. CLINGER,
JR., to vice president and senior investment
officer. The bank is a member of the Bank
of New York Holding Co. Prior to the ap-
pointment, Clinger was in charge of
the institutional sales unit for Merrill, Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner, & Smith in Buffalo for eight
years.

Formerly vice president of the Society Na-
tional Bank of Cleveland, WiLttIAM M.
FRANCE is now associated with Roulston &
Co., Inc., members of the New York Stock
Exchange.

For the past eight years, J. WILLIAM REID
has been with First & Merchants National
Bank in Richmond. A 1968 graduate of the
Stonier Graduate School of Banking, he is
assistant vice president. He travels for the
bank in the southeastern U.S.

1959

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLEs D. Hurt, Jr.,
a daughter, Alice Ashley, on Nov. 12.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM HARRISON,
a daughter, Blair Sterling, on July 28, 1969.
Dr. Harrison is vice-president of the Anna-
polis Jaycees, a director of the county Men-
tal Health Association, and secretary of the
Maryland Academy of General Dentistry.

ANTHONY J. FRANK is vice president and a
director of Mason & Co., members of the
New York Stock Exchange.

Dr. ARTHUR S. GROVE, JR., is in his first year
of residency in ophthalmology at the Massa-
chusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary. Dr. Grove
also holds a J.D. degree from Harvard and
is a member of the Massachusetts Bar.

Finishing his Ph.D. thesis at Harvard, Ros-
ERT C. MOELLER expects to begin work at
the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston in Sep-
tember, 1970.

RicHARD A. POWELL is teaching English in
the 7th, gth, and 10th grades at Kindley Air
Force Base in Bermuda.

After completing his M.A. degree in theater
at San Francisco State College, Tom M.

Malcolm A. Clinger, ’58

 

SCHMIDT has been teaching, directing, and
designing at Oklahoma College of Liberal
Arts. His productions this year have been
Chekhov’s “Uncle Vanya” and the musical
“Stop the World I Want to Get Off.”

J. Robert C. STEPHENS has been named field
sales director of Mutual of New York’s
southeastern region, headquartered in At-
lanta. He will be responsible for coordi-
nating field sales activities for the 21 agencies
in the region. Stephens joined Mutual in
1962 and has had executive assignments in
Baltimore, Md., Louisville, and Lexington,
Ky.

Currently, RicHarp B. GwaTtumey is general
manager of St. Joe Paper Co. in Atlanta, Ga,

JoHN H. Esperian is assistant principal at
St. John’s Preparatory School in San Juan,
Puerto Rico. He also is a part-time English
instructor at the University of Puerto Rico.
Completing his internship at Touro Infir-
mary in New Orleans, Epwarp Levy, Jr.
expects to begin his residency in psychiatry
with Louisiana State University at Charity
Hospital in June, 1970.

Tuomas P. Foitz, Jr., is associated with
Kennedy, Albers, & Phillips, Inc., a general
insurance and real estate firm in Ft. Smith,
Ark., which was founded by his grandfather
in 1889, Foltz is currently the president of
the Independent Insurance Agents Associa-
tion of Ft. Smith, and is president-elect of
the Fort Smith Board of Realtors.

RAYMOND R. RosrecHT is engaged in law
practice in Roanoke, primarily in labor re-
lations and corporate law. In 1967, he be-
came the first Republican Commonwealth’s
Attorney in Roanoke.

EDWARD F. HALSELL, JR., is an account execu-
tive with Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, &
Smith in Dallas.

1960

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Lester H. WASKINS,
a daughter, Leslie Stewart, on Jan. 20 in
Baltimore,

After release from the Army, JoHN ASHBY
Morton is pursuing his master’s in history
at the University of Georgia.

A major in the U.S. Army Epwarp A. Cor-
CORAN is currently serving in Vietnam. Cor-
coran received his master’s in Russian litera-
ture and a certificate from the Russian In-
stitute at Columbia University, He is also
a graduate of the U.S. Army foreign area
specialist program.

Currently assigned to the USAF Medical
Center at Scott AFB in Illinois, Dr. Max L.
ELLIOTT expects to take a position as pro-
fessor of pathology at the Medical School
of the University of California in San Diego.

JAMeEs I. GREENE has been transferred to
Dallas, where he will be copy chief for the
advertising firm of Batten, Barton, Durs-
tine, & Osborne.

Returning from Vietnam in August, 1969,
Dr. Douctas E. Barnarp is presently serv-
ing as a staff anesthesiologist at the Naval
Hospital in Boston.

WILLIAM B. BLuNDIN joined the investment
banking firm of Loeb, Rhoades, & Co. of New
York City in December, 1968. He is re-
sponsible for the institutional department
in the Southeast.

196]

MARRIED: Henry Howze Harré. to Jean
Covington Camp on Feb. 7 in Franklin, Va.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT O’BRIEN, a
son, Eric Robert, on Nov. 13 in Dallas.
O’Brien is a press representative for the
Baptist General Convention of Texas.

Dr. Mitrorp F. Scuwartz is a major in the
Army Medical Corps at Fort Benning, Ga.

R. L. KUERSTEINER resigned as an Assistant
Attorney General of Florida in order to ac-
cept a civilian position with the Depart-
ment of the Navy, Office of General Counsel,
as its representative in Vietnam.

Currently a chief resident in general sur-
gery at the University of Kentucky Medical
Center, Dr. RALEIGH R. ARCHER plans to go
into plastic surgery in July.

The Austin, Tex., Ballet Society will per-
form JOHN B. Boatner’s ballet, based on the
story of Cinderella for its annual spring chil-
dren’s program in April.

Haywoop M. BALt is a partner in the Jack-
sonville, Fla., law firm of Ulmer, Murchi-
son, Ashby, & Ball. He is also a member of
the Board of Governors of the Young Law-
yers section of the Florida Bar.

J. CARTER Fox is controller of the Chesa-
peake Corp. of Virginia.

Promoted by IBM to manager of financial
planning for the components _ division,
SAMUEL C., STRITE, Jr., has moved to Ridge-
field, Conn.

Ropert K. Park has been elected president-
manager of Farmers Building & Loan As-
sociation of Ravenswood, W.Va. He is also

_
—

 

second vice president of the West Virginia
Savings & Loan League and has recently

been nominated
School Board.

to the Jackson County

The president of Kiplinger Washington Edi-
tors, Inc. and publisher of Changing Times
magazine has announced the appointment
of PAuL RICHARD PLAWIN as an_ associate
editor of Changing Times. Plawin has had
extensive experience in writing and editing.
He started his journalistic career as a report-
er for the Norfolk Ledger-Star. Prior to
joining the Kiplinger organization, he was
travel editor of Better Homes and Gardens,
managing editor of New Orleans magazine,
and Southeast editor of Southern Living.

Completing his residency in oral surgery at
Montitiore Hospital last July, Dr. DAvip R.
SHENSA is currently in private practice in
Pittsburgh. He is also on the faculty of the
University of Pittsburgh School of Dental
Medicine.

1962

MARRIED: STEPHEN WALKER RUTLEDGE to
Elaine Frances Horan on Feb. 14. Rutledge
is associated with Proctor & Gamble Co. in
Cincinnati, Ohio,

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES APPLEBAUM, a
daughter, Julia Freda, on Jan. 1 in New
York City. Applebaum is an account execu-
tive with Benton & Bowles, Inc., an adver-
tising agency.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT B. ARM-
STRONG, a son, Robert, Jr., on July 8, 1969.
Armstrong is practicing law with the firm
of Toaz, Buck, Myers, Brower, Bernst, &
Meservey in Huntington, N.Y,

CHARLES J. NIEMEYER is the senior resident
in orthopedic surgery at Duke Medical Cen-
ter.

Working as a social worker in Mt. Vernon,
N.Y., JoHN A. MARTIN expects to begin a
doctoral program in clincial psychology next
fall.

The minister of Fairmont United Methodist
Church in Richmond is L. Doucias HILL,
Jr. Hill is serving on the Conference Board
of Missions as chairman of the research and
Survey committee.

After discharge from the Marine Corps in
June, 1968, J. R. Buakestee, III, began work-
ing in the machine tool business in Pepper
Pike, Ohio.

Taking a temporary leave of absence as as-
Sistant administrator of the Washington
Center Hospital, G. T. DUNLAP ECKER has
become a full-time student at the American
University Law School. Upon receiving his
law degree in June, 1972, Dunlap expects
to return to hospital administration. In the
Meantime, he has taken a part-time job as
Office manager in the Washington law firm
of Jackson, Gray, & Laskey.

While serving as battalion surgeon with the
3td Marine Division in Vietnam in 1968-69,

ILLIAM BARTON Dick received the Bronze
Star and the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry.

Upon his release from military service in
July, he expects to return to the University
of Kentucky Medical Center to complete his
surgical residency.

EvLuiotr C. L. MAYNARD, a student of oceano-
graphy at Nova University, has been given a
leave of absence from the school to become
director of biological research for the firm
of Aquaculture Products & Research, Inc.
Maynard’s time will be devoted to a project
on the Big Cypress Indian Reservation,
where the firm will attempt to develop tech-
niques for large-scale culture of giant fresh-
water shrimp.

K. DouGLas MARTIN has been promoted from
national sales training manager of Colton
Co. to assistant to the vice president for
marketing of the Paper-Mate Pen Co., both
divisions of Gillette Co.

GEORGE E. Honts, III, has moved to his new
home in Fincastle, Va. Honts has been elect-
ed chairman of the Board of Directors of
the Industrial Development Authority of
Botetourt County.

Dr. Henry D. Hoiianp will complete his
residency in psychiatry at the Medical Col-
lege of Virginia Hospital in June. He ex-
pects to assume a position of instructor in
psychiatry at the same institution.

After three years with the Air Force, Au-
BREY B. CALVIN has become associated with
Dyche, Wheat, Thornton, & Wright, a law
firm in Houston, Tex.

STEPHEN R. CHERNAY holds the rank of
captain in the U.S. Air Force Medical Corps.
He is chief of pediatrics at Reese AFB in
Texas, and received the Physicians Recogni-
tion Award from the American Medical As-
sociation in July, 1969.

JoHN W. Braprorp just returned from Viet-
nam, where he served as an anesthesiologist
at the 24th Evacuation Hospital at Long
Binh. After release from the Army, Bradford
expects to go to Seattle for his residency in
urology.

1963

MARRIED: J. R. UHLIG to Susan Lewis
Spickard on Aug. 16, Uhlig is working for
American Airlines in New York City.

MARRIED: Tueovore A. DorEMus to Mary
Nemec on Sept. 27. Among the groomsmen
were Nick SMITH, ’63, JON GILLETT, '63, TOM
SPARKS, °63, TIM IRELAND, ’63-L, and Bo
DuBosr, 62. Doremus is a member of the
Florida State and the American Bar As-
sociation.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RoBert G. HOLLAND,
a daughter, Katrina Allyne, on Jan. 2 in
Lexington, Va. Holland has just rejoined
the Richmond Times-Dispatch as an edi-
torial writer, after serving as director of
public relations at Washington and Lee for
the past year. Prior to the Washington and
Lee appointment, Holland was an education
writer for the Times-Dispatch.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CLARENCE RENSHAW,
a son, Robert Milnor, on Dec. 22.

CLASS NOTES .33

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. RoBerr M. AUBURN,
twin daughters, Kathryn Ann and Caroline
Virginia, on Feb. 11. The family lives in
Park Ridge, N.J., where Dr. Auburn spec-
ializes in obstetrics and gynecology.

From May until October, 1969, WARDEN
HAMLIN Emory was flight surgeon with the
ist Marine Air Wing in Quang Tri, Vietnam.
He was later transferred to Okinawa as sen-
ior medical officer for the ist Marine Air
Wing. In June, 1970, he expects to be as-
signed to NAF Sigonella, Sicily.

RoGER W. FAuBER is assistant vice president
with Fidelity National Bank in Lynchburg,
in charge of the credit card program.

Fulfilling his military service, R. “THOMAS
Epwarps, III, is a Navy doctor in Charles-
ton, S.C. He has completed one year of resi-
dency in internal medicine and hopes to re-
turn to the University of Virginia to com-
plete his training in that field.

Living in Tampa, Fla., DONALD W. BELVEAL
is trust officer of the First National Bank.
He is also a member of the executive com-
mittee of the real property, probate, and
trust law section of the State Bar Associa-
tion.

RoBert E. PAYNE is still in Augusta, Ga.,
where he is chief of military justice with
the Staff Judge Advocate Office at Fort
Gordon.

STEPHEN GUILD is presently in a doctoral pro-
gram in international education at the Uni-
versity of Massachusetts.

After two years with the U.S. Army, one of
which was in Korea, JOHN M. GranaM, III,
is now in Rome, Ga., with the law firm of
Matthews, Walton, & Smith.

Ruce P. Devan, III, is vice president and
general manager of Welloughby Supply,
Inc. of Richmond, Ky., and also Concrete
Materials Corp. of Winchester, Ky.

In an increasingly busy schedule, PAuL H.
BOSWELL is practicing law in Smyrna, Del.,
teaching business law at the University of
Delaware, and acting as U.S. Commissioner
of Delaware.

In his third year of law school at Case Wes-
tern Reserve, JOHN N. GULICK, JR., is notes
editor of the Law Review. In June, 1970, he
expects to become associated with the San
Francisco law firm of Pillsbury, Madison, &
Sutro.

The Rev. MIcHAEL J. SHANK is currently
rector of St. Aidan’s Church in Cheltenham,
Pa. His prior assignments were at Trinity
Church in Oxford, Pa., and St. Asoph’s
Church in Bala-Bynwyd, Pa., where he was
assistant minister.

Living in Dallas, CHARLES VANCE CAMPBELL,
Jr., is on the Board of Trustees of St. Marks
School, and on the Board of Directors of
Bonanza International, Inc.

R. MEADE CHRISTIAN, JR., plans to finish
pediatric residency at the University of
North Carolina in June, 1970, and expects to
enter the U.S. Army Medical Corps.

os
_
a

bee

-
a

2
7
a

<x

4

¥

—_
a

 

Oo
ess

>=

 

 

 

 

 

 

William S. Baker, ’66

Bank in Charlotte, N.C. Baker received his
M.B.A. from the University of North Caro-
lina at Chapel Hill. Last year, he won first
place in competition on case problems and
special loan situations, sponsored by the
Carolina-Virginia Chapter of Robert Morris
Associates.

The former assistant cashier of the First
National Exchange Bank in _ Lexington,
Eric SIsLER, has resigned his post to open
law practice in Lexington. Sisler has received
the American Jurisprudence Award in in-
surance, trusts, and creditors’ rights. He is
vice president of the Lexington Kiwanis
Club and is a member of the Jaycees.

Upon release from the Army in July, 1969,
WesLEY W. Horner is currently pursuing a
master’s degree in landscape architecture at
the University of Illinois.

Admitted to the New York State Bar in De-
cember, Harris MASLANSKY is working for
Columbia Pictures in New York City.

1967

MARRIED: WIituiAM R. WILLIAMS to Alison
Wright on Sept. 27, 1969. Among the ushers
was Tom Doss, ’68. Williams is currently
with the U.S. Army, stationed at Valley Forge
General Hospital.

STEPHEN F. BRAUER is a first lieutenant in
the Army Corps of Engineers with the 36th

Engineer Battalion in the Mekong Delta in
Vietnam.

Rogert E. VAIL, jr., is a salesman with
Ohaus Scale Corp., manufacturers of labora-
tory balances and weights.

Receiving his M.B.A. from the University
of Chicago in December, RICHARD WIN-
ot is now employed by Humble Oil &
ening Co., as an economic analyst for

fir Southeastern marketing region, head-
quartered at Charlotte, N.C.

Yeoman grd Class Kevin C. EARLE of the
U.S. Navy was recently awarded the Viet-
namese Training Service Honor Medal, Sec-
ond Class in ceremonies in Saigon. The
Navy petty officer won the medal while serv-
ing with the Navy Small Boat School as an
English language instructor. In the citation
accompanying the award, Earle was praised
for his “professional competence, technical
contributions, and devotion to duty,” Earle
joined the Navy in October, 1967, and re-
ported for duty in the Republic of Viet-
nam in December, 1968.

After three years with the Tennessee Air
National Guard, J. MicHaEL Hayes is back
in Nashville as a buyer for C. R. Ragland
Co., a wholesale grocery firm.

Joun J. Wersr is serving as C.I.C. officer
aboard the USS Edson, homeported at Long
Beach, Calif.

After receiving his M.B.A, from the Univer-
sity of Illinois in June, 1969, PETER L. HEv-
MANN joined Arthur Andersen & Co. on the
management consulting staff. He and Re-
becca S. Gault were married Dec. 20 in Wes-
tern Springs, Ill.

1968

MARRIED: W. Jay TiMs to Jane Neblett on
July 12, 1969. Tims is currently stationed at
Fort Carson with the U.S. Army.

In his second year, KAZIMIERZ JAN HERCHOLD
is a Root-Tilden Scholar at the New York
University School of Law. This past summer,
he was an intern at the Department of State,
and next summer he expects to clerk for the
firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham, & Taft.

Vance A. Funk, III, passed the Delaware
Bar in September, 1968 and joined the firm
of Potter, Anderson, & Carroon of Wilming-
ton, Del. Ordered to military service in
March, 1969, he is now adjutant for the
519th Military Police Battalion at Fort
George Meade, Md,

N. TAYLOR CARLSON. completed a year of
graduate work at Emory before going into
military service in June, 1969. He is cur-
rently in the finance department at the
Army base at Fort Gordon, Ga.

Gary P. WILKINSON is currently with the
U.S. Steel Corp. in Gary, Ind,

E. R. “Skip” JACOBSEN is a lieutenant aboard
the USS Nashville.

Oyster Bay (N.Y.) supervisor John W. Burke
has announced the appointment of STEVEN
R. SAUNDERS as an assistant for governmental
planning and research. Burke called the re-
search post one of the most important in the
town’s governmental structure, and he noted
that Saunders had unusually high qualifica-
tions for the job. Saunders has served as a
legislative assistant to Rep. John W. Wydler
in Washington, and he is concluding a term
as history instructor at the Lawrenceville
School in Lawrenceville, N.J. He is a former
Washington correspondent for the Nassau
Broadcasting Co., which operates radio sta-
tions in New Jersey and Connecticut.

 

CLASS NOTES .35

1969

MARRIED: Henry L. Roepicer, III, to
Leslie Anne Waugh on June 7, 1969. Roedi-
ger is currently in the graduate program in
social psychology at Yale University.

WILLIAM R. WILKERSON, II, has recently re-
turned from active duty with the Virginia .
National Guard at Ft. Polk, La. He has
begun graduate studies in European history
at the University of Virginia.

ROBERT W. WIPFLER is at Landon School in
Bethesda, Md., where he is teaching seventh
and eighth grade history and coaching foot-
ball, soccer, and baseball.

IN MEMORIAM
1905

WELLS COVINGTON LoGAN died Nov. go in
Roseland, Fla.

1909

ERNEST JONES, SR., former director of Farmers
& Merchants Bank and former mayor of
Altavista, Va., died Dec. 18. After gradua-
tion from Washington and Lee, Jones was
associated with S. S. Patterson in Richmond,
Va., and later opened a law office in Buck-
ingham Court House, Va. He began practic-
ing law in Altavista in 1910.

1910

WILLIAM WELBY BEVERLEY died May 15,

1969.
191]

Cot. ALEXANDER C. KNIGHT, a retired Army
officer who served in the South Pacific dur-
ing World War II, died Jan. 27. Col. Knight
began his military career with the 14th
Cavalry as part of the Mexican expedition-
ary force in 1914. He was transferred to
France in 1917, after the U.S. entered World
War I. In igig, he returned to the US.
to help organize a new engineer regiment.
After duty in a variety of posts, he was as-
signed to the chief engineer’s office in
Washington. Col. Knight was in charge of
the Atlantic Seaboard fortifications at the
outbreak of World War II, and later served
with the headquarters planning board of the
Army Engineers in the South Pacific. He re-
tired from the Army in 1946.

Oscar H, BrEIDENBACH died Feb. 7 after a
long illness in Lafayette, La., where he lived
for the past 27 years. Breidenbach taught at
Loyola and Tulane universities, and in 1942
he became assistant professor in the College
of Commerce at the University of Southern
Louisiana, a position he held until his re-
tirement in 1954.

1912

RoBERT CLINTON Dow, long-time attorney
and prominent political figure in Loving-
ton and Carlsbad, N.M., died Dec. 16. Dow
began law practice in New Mexico in 1912,

SO:CLASS NOTES

and served as prosecuting attorney for six
counties. He served one year as Attorney
General of New Mexico in 1927, and a year
later received the state Democratic party’s
nomination for governor of the state. Dow
was former general counsel for the Federal
Land Bank, the Federal Intermediate Credit
Bank, the Production Credit Corp., and
the Wichita Bank for Cooperatives for the
states of Kansas, Colorado, Oklahoma, and
New Mexico.

1913

THOMAS ROCHELLE BANDY, prominent judge
and attorney in Kingsport, Tenn., died Nov.
19, Bandy was former president and direc-
tor of Kingsport Cero-Cola Co., Inc.

1917

CHARLES BROWNIE BLaIR, a long-time resi-
dent of Wytheville, Va., and Bristol, Tenn.,
died Dec. 10.

CrecIL CONRAD GRAVES of Stanley, Va., died
Oct. 23. Graves was superintendent of schools
in Page County, Va., for a number of years.
He was also principal of various public
schools in Virginia, North Carolina, and
West Virginia.

1920

JosEPpH THOMAS ENGLEBY, jr., referee in
bankruptcy for the U.S. Western District
Court in Roanoke, Va., died Feb. 1. Judge
Engleby had practiced law in Roanoke since
1921, and was appointed to the court in
1952. A former state president of the Young
Men’s Christian Association, he had also
served on the board of the Roanoke YMCA.

192]

FRANKLIN M. THOmMpson, a former professor
at Davis & Elkins College in Elkins, W.Va.,
died Jan. 29. Thompson was a language
teacher. From 1930 until 1942, he was a
teacher of Portuguese in various colleges in
Brazil.

WILLIAM TIPTON CALDWELL, formerly an at-
torney with the New York firm of Brown,
Wood, Fuller, Caldwell, & Ivey, died Oct.

25.
1923

CHARLES LAYMEN TERRY, JR., who served
the state of Delaware as governor and a
judge since 1938, died Feb. 6. Gov. Terry was
a public servant for most of his adult life,
as a judge, then as Chief Justice of Dela-
ware’s Supreme Court, and last as the state’s
highest elected official. At the end of his
term in 1968, he was the oldest governor in
the nation. Gov. Terry participated in sports
in high school and college. At Washington
and Lee, he played center on the football
team and first base on the baseball team.
His first political post was as attorney for
Kent County levy court. In 1937, he was
named Secretary of State. Gov. Terry for
years was a trustee of the University of
Delaware. Among some of the chief accom-
plishments he savored during his term were
his strides in education and revision of the

State’s antiquated magistrate system, He was
especially proud of establishing the Dela-
ware Technical and Community College.

1924

Dorr M. Tucker, Sr., a former Washington
and Lee football star, died in Roanoke on
Jan. 18. Tucker was retired as an insurance
adjuster. He was former secretary to U.S.
Sen. Rush D. Holt.

1925

HENRY KING HILL, prominent insurance man
of Louisville, Ky., and one-time general agent
for the Massachusetts Life Insurance Co.,
died Sept, g.

1926

RuFus Compton MAppux, a New York ad-
vertising executive, died Dec. 13. Maddux
was a vice president of Transportation Dis-
play, Inc. in New York City.“He had headed
the New England Council in Boston, and
had been a vice president of radio station
WOR in New York.

1927

LUTHER H. ReEpcay, a former executive direc-
tor of the Snyder County Board of Assistance
of Pennsylvania, died Oct. 16 in New York.
Redcay was active in the Lutheran Church,
and served as secretary to the Board of
Social Mission.

1929

JAMES HENRY PRopsT, a long-time resident
and business executive of Columbus, Miss.,
died June 1, 1969. Propst had been in the
automobile parts and service business.

1931

FRANK STINSON HANNA, a former member of
Mumford & Hanna Investment Co. in St.
Joseph, Mo., died Nov. g0. Hanna was presi-
dent of the St. Joseph Chamber of Com-
merce in 1946. He was also a former presi-
dent of the Wyatt & Green Box Co., a di-
rector of the American Union Life Insur-
ance Co., the Park Bank, and the Morris
Plan Co., all of St. Joseph.

LLoyd ANDERSON MYER, Jr., died in Bristol,
Tenn., in December, A native of Lynch-
burg, Myers was a retired president of the
Black Diamond Trailer Co. of Bristol.

1932

LYMAN C. HARRELL, JR., a political power in
the Virginia General Assembly for more than
a decade, died Jan. 3. Harrell represented
Emporia, Greensville, Surry, and Sussex
counties for six terms. He was chairman of
the Virginia Advisory Legislative Committee
on Rural Affairs. Harrell began his career
in 1938 when he won election as Common-
wealth’s Attorney for Greensville County, a
post the held until 1958 when he was elected
to his first term in the House of Delegates.
A lawyer and a banker in Emporia, he was
a member of the Virginia State Bar and past

president of the Commonwealth’s Attorney
Association.

Dr. WILLIAM C. KNopr, Jr., dean of the
School of Engineering at the University of
Miami, died Feb. 6. After gaining a master’s
degree in physics from Vanderbilt and a
doctorate in physics from Northwestern Uni-
versity, Knopf took an early academic assign-
ment as assistant dean of Northwestern’s
School of Engineering. He left the academic
world between 1951 and 1961 to do in-
dustrial research. Knopf became technical
director of U.S. Industries Technical Cen-
ter and later assistant director of research
for Applied Research Laboratory, Interna-
tional Minerals and Chemical Corp. He
joined the University of Miami in 1963 and
became one of the outstanding members of
the state’s task force on oceanography and
hydrographic engineering. Knopf was listed
in American Men of Science, Who’s Who in
Engineering, and Who’s Who in America.

CHARLES F, RICHARDSON, a former procure-
ment officer for the department of biology
at Texas A&M University, died Dec. 29 in
College Station, Tex. In 1966, Richardson
was secretary for the city of College Station.

1934

VERNON V. Harris, JRr., president of Harris
Foundation, died Jan. 13 in Tucson, Ariz.
He was a long-time resident of Oklahoma
City, Okla., and a past director of both the
Liberty National Bank and Citizens Na-

tional Bank.
1936

JOsepH JOHN Petre died Jan. 24 in Rockville
Centre, L.I., N.Y. At the time of his death,
he was employed by the Diamond National
Corp. Pette was an outstanding athlete at
Washington and Lee, and was prominent in
sports life on Long Island for many years.

1945

ARTHUR VicToR MILONA of Triangle, Va.,
died Feb. 7. Milona was a former teacher
and coach at Clifton Forge city schools, and
was a guidance director at Prince William
County schools. He was also a former as-
sistant state supervisor of the Virginia State
Board of Education. At the time of his death,
he was administrator of the GED Testing
Service, a national testing program with the
American Council on Education.

1949

WILLIAM Harr WapE, a former attorney with
Continental Casualty Co. of Chicago, Ill., and
a former city attorney of Lake Waukomis,
Mo., died Oct. 16.

195]

JosepH T, RICHARDSON died Jan. 2 in Win-
chester, Ky. He was a partner in the Rich-
ardson Grocery Co. and a member of the
First Christian Church.

1965

SAMUEL BARKLEY THomas died Jan. 8 in
Springfield, Mo.

A

 

 

 

 

 

SENERAL

BOOS

 

It is the historian’s work at its very
best, an accurate record of. the
struggles of a great university, show-
ing how far the beginnings, how difh-
cult the road, how worthy the pro-

duct. —Richmond News-Leader

It is a good history. . . . Dr. Cren-
shaw writes well about an institution
for which he obviously has a deep
affection.

—Chattanooga News-Free Press

No similar efforts which come to
mind, including Morison on Har-
vard, certain centennial and _bicen-
tennial products, and more modern
Studies, surpass its merits as the story
of an educational institution.

—Petersburg Progress-Index

This book has deep meaning
for everyone who has shared the
Washington and Lee experience.

For all, it is an important
record of the development of one
of the nation’s great institutions.

Be sure to obtain a first edition copy.

Fill in and mail the attached

order form today.

THE RISE AND GROWTH eka Bs
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY pee

by Dr. Giiicee Ciredahaw
Professor of tines)

Published by Random ou
New York

Price: $10.00

This book may have come as a bless-
ing to revive the great spirit of
Washington and Lee. ‘There has never
deen more to be proud of on the Lex-
ington campus—the book makes this

clear. —Charleston News and Courier

The account is concise, yet rich in de-
tail, with frequent touches of subtle
humor, .. .. The excellence of this
volume fully justifies the enthusiasm
with which it has already been re-

ceived. —Lexington News-Gazette

A pleasing, witty style and excellent
use of quotations enliven the book;
descriptions of student activities and
vignettes of important persons are
particularly interesting.

—The Journal of Southern History

 

The history of the college is intricately
related to the history of the country

itself, its prosperity, wars, depressions,

changes in attitudes and in manners.
Consequently, General Lee’s College
is a volume that will interest both
friends of the college and those read-
ers who are interested in Southern
and American history.

—Richmond Times-Dispatch

Alumni of Washington and Lee will
appreciate General Lee’s College
most. It will give pleasure and fur-
nish important insights to all’ who
appreciate the. heritage of our state,
region, and nation as well as the es-
sential role of higher education in
our efforts to cope with this time of

turmoil. —Roanoke Times

ORDER FORM

THE BOOKSTORE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me

copy(ies) of General Lee’s College by Dr. Ollinger

Crenshaw, at $10.00 each. (Include 75 cents handling charges for each copy

purchased).

 

Name

 

Address

Payment of $

 

is enclosed.

Zip Code

WASHINGTON & LEE ALUMNUS

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

THE MCCORMICK LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIV
LEXINGTON VA

24450

 

