WASHINGTON
AND LEL BEE

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Summer 1968

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A Statement of Institutional Philosophy

»

 

PRESIDENT HUNTLEY (center) with recipients of honorary degrees HENRY I. WILLETT, FRED VINSON, JR.,

CLEANTH Brooks, and Frep C. COLE.

FINALS, 1968: A DAY OF DISTINCTION

OMMENCEMENT, JUNE 7, 1968, was distinguished in
( several ways: Robert E. R. Huntley, who became
President of the University in February, delivered his
first commencement address; the number of gradu-
ates—2gg—was the largest ever; honorary degrees were
bestowed upon four outstanding men, including Dr.
Fred C. Cole, former president of the University; the
exercises were held on a day of national mourning
for Sen. Robert F. Kennedy.

Others receiving honorary degrees were Fred M.
Vinson, Jr., an alumnus, Assistant U. S. Attorney Gen-
eral in charge of the Criminal Division of the Depart-
ment of Justice, who the next day flew to London to
arrange for the extradition of James Earl Ray, the
suspected assassin of Dr. Martin Luther King; Henry
I. Willett, Superintendent of Schools, Richmond, Va.;
and Cleanth Brooks, Professor of Rhetoric at Yale
University.

Dr. Cole, now president of the Council on Library
Resources, Inc., was cited as a distinguished historian
and educational administrator and for his contribu-
tions to Washingon and Lee. Mr. Vinson was cited for
outstanding contributions to the legal profession; Mr.
Willett for his dedication to the task of educating
young people; and Prof. Brooks for his scholarship
and contributions in the field of literary criticism.

Doctor of Laws degrees went to Dr. Cole, Mr. Vinson,
and Mr. Willett. A Doctor of Letters degree went to
Prof. Brooks.

The 299 graduates exceeded by 31 the previous
high in 1966 when 268 men were graduates. Bachelor
of Laws degrees went to 59; the B.S. in Commerce to
40; B.A. with majors in Economics or Political Science
to 33; B.S. to 22; B.S. with Special Attainments in
Chemistry to 3; and B.A. to 142.

Major Gen. John C. F. Tillson, I11, Deputy Com-
manding General of the First Army, Ft. Meade, Md.,
spoke and presented commissions to 32 graduates of
the University’s ROTC program. Seven others will
receive commissions after completing the ROTC sum-
mer training camp.

Michael R. Dunn of Hampton, Va., who majored
in Greek, delivered the valedictory address. Dr. David
W. Sprunt, the University Chaplain, delivered the bac-
calaureate address the day before the commencement
exercises. The service was followed by the traditional
luncheon on the front lawn, sponsored by the Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni Association.

(The text of President Huntley’s address appears
elsewhere in this magazine. Elsewhere also is a sketch
of Mr. Vinson that appeared in the New York Times.)

Editor

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40

Managing Editor

ROMULUS T. WEATHERMAN

Editorial Assistant

Mrs. Frep K. CARTER

THE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President

FREDERICK BARTENSTEIN, JR., '41

Vice-President
JAcK L. CRIsT, JR., "45

Secretary
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40

Treasurer
WILLIAM C, BAKER, °38

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

WILLIAM C. BAKER, '38
FREDERICK BARTENSTEIN, JR., ‘41
Jor F. BEAR, 33

CHARLES F. CLARKE, JR., ‘38
GeEorGE Crappock, M.D., ‘30
JAcK L. Crist, JR., '45
WARREN H. EpWArbs, '39
Joun M. Jones, III, 37

S. L. Kopa.p, JR., '43
EpWARD H. OULD, 29

EMIL L. RASSMAN, "41
RICHARD H. TURRELL, '49

EDITORIAL BOARD

PAXTON DAVIs

FRANK J. GILLIAM, ‘17

FREDERICK BARTENSTEIN, JR., ‘41
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40
JAMEs W. WHITEHEAD

WASHINGTON
AND LEE 88M

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

VOLUME 43 AuGusT 1968

 

NUMBER 3

 

CONTENTS

Statement of Institutional Philosophy

Day of Mourning... Of Hope and Joy

Our Flying Law: Deatets= es .. 10
A Bell-Ringing Year for Athletics .  . 11
RIO INOW ici Find Negara BS
2a Tee vee Sg ee ae
Fathers and Sons: Alumni All .  . «33
W&L Men Here and There . . . 34
Class Notes ek ee oe

ln Mentored hic) ers Gare te

 

 

 

About the Cover

The cover introduces the University’s “Statement of Institutional
Philosophy,” which appears in this issue, beginning on Page 3. The
drawing for the cover and those accompanying the statement were
done by Jim Stanley, artist for the Winston-Salem, N. C., Journal
and Sentinel newspapers.

Published quarterly by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexing-
ton, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
addressed to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington,
Virginia, with additional mailing permit at Roanoke, Virginia.

A STATEMENT: The following is a statement of ownership, management, and
circulation of the Washington and Lee Alumni Magazine as required by Act
of Congress of Aug. 24, 1912, as amended by the Acts of March g, 1933, July
2, 1946, and June 11, 1960. The magazine is owned by Washington and Lee
University Alumni, Inc., and is entered as second class matter at the Post
Office in Lexington, Virginia, with additional mailing permit at Roanoke,
Virginia. The editor and business manager is William C. Washburn, Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. There are no bond-
holders, mortgage, or other security holders. The average number of copies
of each issue during the 12 preceding months was 12,000.

 

 

 

 

A More Definite
Expression

T IS NOT EASY TO PUT Washington and

Lee University into words. The Uni-
versity is a thing of the mind and of the
heart, some would say, of the soul—a thing
beyond the bounds of the best chosen
words. The late Francis P. Gaines, whose
way with words was wonderful, often artic-
ulated the philosophy and aspirations of
the University. On one occasion he distill-
ed it to this: ‘““The creed of Washington
and Lee is implicit in the title.”

That statement still has validity. So do
the many other clear and sometimes eloqu-
ent references to the purposes and objec-
tives of the University that have appeared
over the years in University records, cata-
logues, pamphlets, and brochures, and in
the speeches and writings of its presidents,
deans, and professors.

In truth, the University, for more than
two centuries, has had a definite educa-
tional philosophy, always felt and always
applied if not always set forth in an official
document.

Now Washington and Lee has *‘A State-
ment of Institutional Philosophy.” It was
drawn up during the course of the Self-

Study that began in 1964 and continued
for two years. It was one of the Self-Study
Committee’s major undertakings to meet
a requirement of the Southern Association
of Colleges and Schools, the regional ac-
crediting agency of which the University
belongs. The Board of ‘Trustees officially
adopted the statement at its October, 1967,
meeting.

Why have an official statement of edu-
cational mission when the University has
managed so well so long without one? ‘The
Report of the Self-Study Committee gave
this answer:

“There is today...an apparent need
for Washington and Lee University to seek
a more definite expression of its purposes
and objectives. For those closely associated
with the University, the concept of its goals
and direction is perhaps as clear as it has
ever been. But there is an immediate and
increasing necessity that these goals and
directions be made more easily understand-
able and more easily communicable to
many others who are important to the Uni-
versity’s future .... Those who will teach
and study in its classrooms in the 1960's,
1970's, and beyond, and those who will
help sustain the University’s future are
likely to seek, and must receive, a fuller
statement of purpose from Washington
and Lee University.”

The statement is printed on the follow-
ing pages. It is essential reading.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

iy
Nar

Ho
i) Cy

 

—&
Bi
eo}
ae
)}

oe

r

x
A

ae

_j}

oe Lots}
v tT 4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ek CCRT YY) | Met te

a ee eee .

po

 

 

 

 

————______— ~
To

Drawings by JIM STANLEY

Washington and Lee University’s
Statement of Institutional Philosophy

 Tihahneme a TO ALL other aspirations of Washington
and Lee University are two basic purposes:

—the dedication of all of its resources to the de-
velopment of man’s capacity and desire to learn, to
understand, and to pass on to others the varied
benefits of this intellectual growth.

—the pursuit of its educational purpose in a climate
of learning that stresses the importance of the indi-
vidual, his personal honor and integrity, his har-
monious relationship with his fellowman, and his
responsibility to serve society through the produc-
tivity of his training and his talent.

In support of these cardinal purposes are a number
of other considerations that give direction to the Unt-
versity’s growth and development, and provide it with
the essentials of an institutional philosophy of higher
education. Some of these considerations stem from an
evolutionary history spanning more than two centuries;
others reflect the University’s awareness of changing pat-

SUMMER 1968 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

terns, techniques, and attitudes in higher education, and
they emphasize Washington and Lee’s responsibility to
adjust to these changes for the greatest good of those as-
sociated with the University as students and _ professors
and for the greatest good of society at large.

|: nee SUCH considerations are these:

The primary academic emphasis at Washington and
Lee University is at the undergraduate level, and the Uni-
versity’s major curricular emphasis is in the humanities,
the social sciences, and the natural sciences. Professional
training in law is offered in a separate division of the
University that is equally important in emphasis but tradi-
tionally smaller in size.

In the area of its major purpose, the University is con-
vinced that it is helping to meet a vital need in American
higher education by offering undergraduate preparation
in the arts and sciences that is of the highest possible
quality.

The University is also convinced that the preservation
of its status as a private institution, independent of control
by either religious or political interests, is essential to the
effectiveness of this important contribution to higher
education.

Within the existing divisions of the University—the
College, the School of Commerce and Administration, and
the School of Law—Washington and Lee seeks to conduct
degree programs that are respected and admired for their
rigor and challenge and for their effectiveness of achieve-
ment.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

Teaching is recognized as the central function of the
University. Washington and Lee is convinced that the
personal association of its students with highly-trained and
highly-motivated teachers holds forth the best hope for
inspiring in these students a respect for truth and knowl-
edge and a desire to seek truth and knowledge through-
out their lifetimes.

The University acknowledges that a faculty of eminent
teacher-scholars is essential for the achievement of its
educational purposes and for the success of its academic
programs. Accordingly, it seeks to maintain a faculty whose
members gladly accept the challenge to teach effectively.
The University seeks professors whose scholarship and
professional development is vigorous and growing, and it
endeavors to compensate its teacher-scholars in ways ap-
propriate to their training, skill, experience, and effective-
ness in aiding the development of students.

Research and scholarly investigation are recognized as
proper companions to the most effective teaching pro-
cesses. Washington and Lee attempts to provide ways and
means by which its professors may pursue their scholarly
interests and by which its undergraduates may have a
proper introduction to the tools, techniques, and meth-
odology used by man to increase his knowledge and under-
standing.

In all phases of University life, curricular as well as
extra-curricular, the University encourages its students
and faculty in self-expression, in the development of stand-
ards of value, in the development of critical and analytical
skills, and in the fulfillment of their highest promise.
The University seeks to eliminate all possible impediments
to intellectual curiosity.

SUMMER 1968

 

 

oe

 

5

 

6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

Til | =

Washington and Lee is selective in its enrollment of
students. It chooses young men with the highest qualities
of intellect, character, and promise of future achievement.
No other discriminatory barriers are imposed. For all
those qualified to undertake its exacting degree programs,
the University seeks to render whatever financial assistance
may be needed for their enrollment.

In all ways feasible, the University attempts to involve
the student body in a responsible participation in the
affairs of the University itself through an effective program
of student self-government.

Washington and Lee provides administrative officers
fully capable of offering leadership and direction in the
formulation and execution of University policies and pro-
grams. The administrative staff seeks to provide all services
necessary, so that professors may teach and students may
learn with the greatest effectiveness possible.

Because of its geographical location and the nature
and scope of its academic programs, Washington and Lee
accepts certain limitations upon the way in which it might
render public service to its community and to society as
a whole. Nevertheless, it seeks to establish itself as a center
of intellect and culture, bringing both direct and indirect
benefits to those not immediately associated with the Uni-
versity.

The University is aware of the great historical and
traditional influences that bear upon it. It recognizes in
the men whose names it carries—George Washington and
Robert E. Lee—qualities of mind and spirit that should
be exemplified for every Washington and Lee student.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

Largely through its student traditions, but in other ways
as well, the University seeks to develop in its students an
appreciation for the attitudes of these men, as demon-
strated in their regard for personal honor and integrity,
for duty, for tolerance and humility, and for self-sacrifice
in behalf of their fellow man.

The history of the University clearly shows that the
Christian ideal has helped to shape the pattern of its
development. The fundamental aspirations of the Uni-
versity continue to be consistent with this influence and
tradition. The by-laws of the University’s corporate
organization assure freedom of worship to all those as-
sociated with Washington and Lee.

Arbitrary limitations upon the size of the student body
or the scope of the University’s educational enterprise
are avoided. The needs of the University’s students and
faculty, the demands of society itself, and sound reason
exercised by those in authority will determine the nature
and direction of change in regard to the size of the Uni-
versity, the character of its academic emphasis and its pro-
grams, and the philosophy of the institution as a whole.

The ultimate responsibility for the future of Washing-
ton and Lee is vested in its Board of Trustees, whose mem-
bers are personally and actively devoted to the best interest
of the University. The Trustees of Washington and Lee
are sensitive and responsive to all needs of the University
which are sound, prudent, and feasible. The ‘Trustees
are cognizant of contemporary issues in higher education
and how these issues relate to the purpose and programs
of Washington and Lee University.

SUMMER 1968

 

 

 

 

 

 

This is President Huntley’s first commencement address. He spoke on the day after the
death of Senator Kennedy. The thoughts of the nation were on ‘“‘mindlessness.’”’ But the
President spoke of the “good mind’’—a mind that is balanced between irresolution and
dogmatism, a mind that can close on a core of conviction and still maintain constructive
tolerance, a mind that insulates against despair. He spoke directly to Washington and
Lee graduates. But his words are for all who value the mind that is good—truly good.

A Day of Mourning...

 

Of Hope and Joy

MONG THE MANY CUSTOMS at Washington and Lee,
= there is one in particular which concerns me and
you at this moment. It is the custom that the President
of the institution deliver the remarks at commence-
ment. I’m confident that the original reasons for this
custom were twofold: one—Washington and Lee’s
presidents would be, it was assumed, splendid orators;
two—the President could, by delivering the remarks
himself, enhance brevity in an already lengthy cere-
mony. Both these assumptions have proven valid—
until this time. Now one of them has been vacated.
I wish to assure you in advance, however, I shall not
fail to preserve the other.

Several weeks ago, at your Senior Banquet, I ex-
pressed to you the sentiment that those of us whose
business it is to remain here are likely to feel we have
a kind of claim on you, a stake in your lives. It’s a
presumptuous sentiment, perhaps, but not a surprising
one, because if we did not harbor this thought, it is
not probable that we would wish to be here at all.

So, whether you acknowledge it or not, many of
us here will see your successes and your failures as
partly ours and will rejoice in the one and sorrow in
the other.

So, also, we have certain hopes about you, hopes
that you will take from this place qualities of real
value which you have nurtured and developed, at
least in part, during your time here.

Most basic, perhaps, there is the hope that you
will take with you the makings of a good mind, a
habit of thought which is both disciplined and inde-
pendent. It has been remarked—and correctly so—that
education is a radical act, an act which cuts the mind
loose from old bondages, releasing it to question and
to probe and to reformulate. But education is also,
of course, a process of conservation. It conserves the
values of the past and strives to provide a nexus be-
tween the generations and between the ages. In a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

recent article by Edgar Dale, in which he spoke of the
good mind, he said this: “A good mind does not
reinvent the alphabet or the wheel. It starts its hard
work where others left off. It stands on the shoulders
of the giants of the past. A good mind requires the
chastening influence of a sense of history.” Or, as
Santayana put it, “Those who cannot remember the
past are condemned to repeat it.”

Education aims to conserve the resources of the
mind itself. It forces a confrontation with the past,
invites a substitution of new directions for old fetters,
and thus frees the mind for its inevitable confronta-
tion with the future.

I would hope you take with you the makings of
a mind which can maintain the delicately balanced
position between irresolution and dogmatism. As Dr.
Gaines once put it, “Openmindedness can become
mere emptymindedness, as if the mind were open at
both ends so that all the circumstantial breezes of
fresh opinion may blow through at will and sweep
out every vestige of certainty.”

The closed mind is worthless; the wholly open
mind stands like a jackass between two bales of
alfalfa and chews dead weeds.

I would wish for you, therefore, a mind which can
close on a core of conviction, a mind which is tol-
erant—not the kind of tolerance which is in fact no
more than condescension, but rather the kind of
tolerance which recognizes the possibility of error and,
even more important, recognizes that there is always
more than one path to truth. The mind with this
kind of tolerance does not work to destroy, but
rather to create or to strengthen those institutions in
society which may exist primarily to accommodate
opposing convictions and effect a resolution which
does not represent perfectly any of the components
which produced it.

And I would wish for you also a quality of spirit
which will insulate you against despair, against hope-
lessness. The despair to which I refer evidences itself
in different forms. On the one hand it may result in
a withdrawal, a turning away, a turning inward, or,
turning off—a despondency which gazes on life with
dull disinterest or which plunges only into some
mock creation.

On the other hand, despair may produce a kind
of frenetic involvement. It produces, I believe, one
of the notable anomalies of our time—the deep con-
viction, lightly chosen, lightly held, and lightly dis-
carded.

The good mind is itself the best insulation against
despair, because it knows also the limitations of the
intellect. It knows that its core of conviction will in
part remain forever undemonstrated. In short, it
knows the meaning and the place of faith.

This is a day of mourning for that national leader

SUMMER 1968

whose tragic death is uppermost in the consciousness
of all of us. It is too, I would suggest, a time to mourn
that bit-of-the-soul of this nation which withers with
each new manifestation of bitterness and mindlessness
which occurs among us.

I would say to you men of the graduating classes
that it is also a day of hope and even of joy—and that
it is entirely appropriate that it should be so. For
here and now, at this time and place, it is your day,
the day on which we, in ceremonial fashion, give ex-
pression to our hopes for your future; and, through
you and others like you, to our hopes for the future
of us all. Because we do not expect our hopes in you
to be disappointed, it zs a day of joy.

I wish you well.

 

 

 

WE L's
Flying
Law Dean

OY LEE STEINHEIMER, JR., profes-
R sor of law at the University of
Michigan, has been appointed
Dean of the Washington and Lee
School of Law, effective Sept. 1.

He is truly a “legal eagle.”

The legal part: A.B. in 1937
from the University of Kansas; J.D.
from the University of Michigan
in 1940; 10 years of practice with
the Wall Street law firm of Sullivan
and Cromwell, one of the largest in
the world; 18 years as a full profes-
sor on the Michigan law faculty,
serving also as admissions officer;
an expert on commercial law and
a prolific writer on legal subjects;
an expounder of the complexities

Prof. STEINHEIMER at the controls
of his Bonanza.

of the Uniform Commercial Code
throughout the nation.

The eagle part: a private pilot
with more than 1,500 hours of fly-
ing time, piloting his own airplane,
a Beechcraft Bonanza, touring by
air—with his wife, Jane—Alaska, the
Caribbean, Central America, and
parts of South America; a licensed
soaring pilot; a member of the
Lawyer Pilots Bar Association,
whose members call themselves

10

“Legal Eagles.” (On recent visits to
Lexington, he and his wife have
flown from Ann Arbor in their
Bonanza, landing at the local ‘‘cow-
pasture’’ airport.)

Prof. Steinheimer is also “some-
thing of a farmer.” On his farm
near Ann Arbor, he raises Suffolk
sheep, a flock that has been describ-
ed by Michigan livestock experts
as one of the best in the state.
(He hopes after moving to Virginia
eventually to take up sheep raising
again.)

Prof. Steinheimer will fill the
vacancy created when University
President Robert E. R. Huntley
was elevated from the law dean-
ship to the presidency last Febru-
ary. Prof. Charles P. Light, who has
been acting dean, will then return
to full-time teaching.

The new dean is 51, a native of
Dodge City, Kan. His family now
lives in Hutchinson, Kan. After
graduation from the University of
Kansas, he passed up Harvard and
Yale, on the advice of friends, to
study law in the midwest at Michi-
gan. Still, he wound up on the East
Coast when he decided to join Sul-
livan and Cromwell, a firm that
pours on the work and gives young
lawyers “a chance to make or break
yourself.” In New York, Mr. Stein-
heimer engaged mainly in trial
work, handling many cases grow-
ing out of business difficulties. So
after he joined the Michigan law
faculty in 1950, he fell naturally
into the field of commercial law.

He has made extensive contribu-
tions to legal scholarship. One not-
able book, Cases on Bills and Notes,
written with R. W. Aigler, is used
in many law schools. His two-vol-
ume Desk Reference to the Uni-
form Commercial Code has been
circulated widely in American legal
circles.

He has served for a number of
years on the Uniform Commercial
Code Committees of both the
American and the Michigan State
Bar Associations. He has become an
expert on the code, which has been

adopted generally throughout the
United States and has profoundly
affected commercial law practice.
To help educate lawyers to the in-
tracacies of the code, Prof. Stein-
heimer has lectured at legal gath-
erings in more than 35 States.

He says law teaching is stimulat-
ing work because of the maturity of
law students and because of the
dynamic nature of the law itself.
Therefore, he says, the study of law
often brings dramatic changes in
the attitudes of some students, par-
ticularly the “new breed.”

“The very students who are in
the forefront of pressure against the
establishment of the university—
when they get into law school and
are subjected to the discipline of
the law—develop very quickly a
sense of responsibility toward their
protest,” he says.

ee,

Prof. Steinheimer says it is “‘al-
most impossible to verbalize” all of
the ingredients that influenced his
decision to come to Washington
and Lee. But he cited three major
influences: Washington and Lee
has a law school “‘with great tradi-
tions and a great history,” which he
intends to “nurture and guard”;
Washington and Lee’s law school,
unlike many small law schools, is
“very cosmopolitan” in its student
body, having a wide geographic
spread, making for “richness in
learning’; Washington and Lee
also has a wide spread among law
alumni who are interested in the
law school and who are “extremely
important” to its strength and de-
velopment.

He said he also has great admira-
tion for President Huntley and
looks forward to working closely
with him.

President Huntley said, in an-
nouncing the appointment, that the
University is “fortunate to acquire
the services” of Prof. Steinheimer,
and “the School of Law, I am sure,
will continue to excel under his
leadership.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A
Bell-Ringing
Year

For
The Generals

Text and Photos

By Mickey PHILIPPS

A. MICHAEL Puuipps, "64, is Director of
Sports Information at Washington and
Lee. He is a frequent contributor to the
Alumni Magazine.

SUMMER 1968

The Generals in a defensive huddle; No. 66 is All-State JOHN WOLF.

T STARTED CONSPICUOUSLY enough,
a back around Sept. 1 when
Washington and Lee head football
coach Lee McLaughlin greeted
some 85 candidates eager for a
chance to prove they could get the
Generals moving again.

And so they did. After fighting
off a flu bug that hit nearly half
the squad before the opener with
Guilford, W&L went on to a fine
5-4-0 season, won the Virginia
Small College League with a 3-0-0
record inside the state, and finished
in a three-way tie for second place
in the College Athletic Confer-
ence.

Although there were many bright
moments—the 13-12 upset of highly-
rated Randolph-Macon coming im-
mediately to mind—nothing prob-
ably stood out more than did the
season-long performance of the
Generals’ defensive unit, a bandit-
type outfit that easily could have
given Murph the Surf lessons.

Mostly the product of assistant
coach Boyd Williams, a gentle man,

 

honest, the W&L defenders, or
Boyd’s Boys as they sometimes were
called, stopped nearly everything
in sight out of their 4-4 pro-type
set, installed last fall to allow more
flexibility.

It worked. Led by all-star line-
backer John Wolf, who was voted
All-State and All-Conference hon-
ors and who just missed a Little
All-America berth, the Generals
posted three shutouts, intercepted
22 passes (10 by previously-un-
heralded safety Charlie Freret),
caused 19 fumbles, and did every-
thing else but clean out the locker
room.

There were troubles, though,
and punter Rudd Smith probably
would be the best man to relate
the story. In all, Smith was called
upon 73 times to turn the game
over to the defense when the offense
sputtered. Even though he respond-
ed with an outstanding 41.3-yard
average, the fact remains that he
was badly overworked.

The fine play of tackle Phil

ll

 

Fullback PHIL JONES heads or a hole.

Thompson and flanker Bucky Cun-
ningham particularly stood out,
Thompson always clearing a path
for somebody and Cunningham
tieing a W&L reception record
with 44 catches.

But it was not enough, and Mc-
Laughlin will be working on the
offense when the Generals, 35 let-
termen strong, report for pre-season
drills next September. Among the
returnees will be Wolf, Freret, Cun-
ningham, center Jay Clarke, de-
fensive end Scott MacKenzie, and
defensive halfback Don Sharpe, all
of them 1967 All-State selections.
Wolf, Freret, and Mackenzie also
were named to the All-CAC team,
along with returning defensive
guard John Harris.

So it all looks good, extremely
good, for the future.

Elsewhere last fall, head coach
Joe Lyles’ soccer team breezed
through a g-g3 season, and walked
off with the Virginia Invitational
Soccer Tournament championship,
first defeating Eastern Mennonite,
2-1, then beating VMI, 2-0, for the
title. Lineman Scott Fechnay was
named to the All-State first team,
and Allen Craig, Jack Horowitz,
Charlie Harrold, Richard  Bur-

12

 

Basketball sure-shots MEL CARTWRIGHT,

MIKE NEER, and MAL WESSELINK ham it
up for the photographer.

eR
A eg

 

Soccer goalie THOM MITCHELL
blocks a shot.

roughs, and Thom Mitchell were
honorable mention picks.

Things weren't so bright for head
Coach Dick Miller and his cross-
country team. Suffering its first los-
ing season in recent memory,
Miller’s over-the-hill and through-
the-dale squad wound up 3-4, most-
ly because co-captain Bob Stack
and Ralph Pearcy weren't able to
recover from early-season injuries.

Still, the Generals finished sec-
ond in the annual CAC meet held
here, as durable Harry Zeliff took
a fourth-place medal.

Just about that time, when the
fall sports were heading down the
homestretch, attention was being
focused inside friendly, — old
Doremus Gymnasium where head
coach Verne Canfield was halfway
through his spirited — pre-season
basketball drills. It was assumed
W&L would have another winning
season, so the real money was cover-
ing bets on how many games the
Generals would win, how far they'd
go in the CAC tournament, and
whether Canfield’s club again
would be left standing at the altar
when post-season NCAA bids were
sent out.

And there was the overriding

 

Lineman Scotr FECHNAY
(No. 22) in action.

question on just how well Mike
Neer, a 6-7 transfer center from
Brown, would work in with the
Establishment — Mel Cartwright,
Mal Wesselink, Jody Kline, John
Carrere, and the rest.

It turned out he worked in very
well. Neer joined Cartwright and
Wesselink to form a triumvirate
called the “M-Squad,” and if their
hot-shooting and rebounding didn't
kill you, their imposing appearance
would.

Their favorite trick was a now-
patented “psyche” move they used
in warm-up drills before a game.
Reserve center Earl Edwards, a
mere 6-5 kid, would join them in
the enterprise.

First, Edwards would crank up
steam, roar to the basket—jump,
crash, whomph, dunk. Then here
would come 6-6 Wesselink behind
him—jump, crash, whomph, dunk.
Then, 6-6 Cartwright. Same thing.
Finally, Neer, taking a great bend
along the baseline, would get the
feed ,and then in a fury smash .the
ball through the net backwards
from about two feet over the rim.

Now, you can imagine what kind
of effect this must have had. An
opposing team just sat there in

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Top swimmers BILLy BALL (above)
and BILLy BRUMBACK.

awe, while the Doremus fans went
completely haywire. And for added
spice, Cartwright and Neer had an
unusual wrinkle they installed dur-
ing their last run to the basket.

Cartwright would simply flick the
ball up in the air, suspended about
a couple of feet above everything,
and Neer followed by grabbing it,
punishing backboard and all as he
stuffed the ball downward. Another
resounding cheer and another de-
feated opponent.

By the time things were through
in late February, the ‘‘M-Squad”’
had led W&L past 19 opponents
(failing six times), and the Gen-
erals were CAC champions for the
second time in a row, defeating
Washington University of St.
Louis, 65-60, and Southwestern at
Memphis, 58-53, for the ttle.

But, like the year before, the
NCAA regional selection commit-
tee looked at W&L, then overlook-
ed the Generals. Many _ people
wondered why. How could you
doubt a 19-6 record, a 12-game win-
ning streak, nary a loss on your
home court throughout the season,
a second consecutive conference
championship, a defense ranked
14th in the nation at 65.3, two

SUMMER 1968

Lacrosse coach Dick SZLASA
gives instructions.

men on the All-State second team
(Cartwright and Neer), and two on
the All-CAC squad (Neer and Car-
rere)?

But that’s what happened, from
which you could make an incentive
for next year. The schedule will be
tougher, much tougher, now that
Navy, Guilford, Elon, Baltimore,
and other newcomers are on the
card, and maybe that’s all for the
good. It would be hard to short-
change the Generals once more
with impressive nights against those
teams.

Head coach Bill Stearns’ swim-
mers, only a few feet away from the
basketball floor, made tidal waves
of their own. The Generals posted
a 6-2 record for their 26th con-
secutive winning season, then went
on to an easy win at the CAC meet
held in St. Louis by compiling 164
points to Sewanee’s 118 and Wash-
ington’s 116.

There, W&L won 12 of 17 events,
placed first or second in every
event, and established CAC records
in seven races. Billy Brumback and
Billy Ball were co-recipients of the
Outstanding Swimmer Award, each
winning five gold medals.

Upstairs, though, things didn't

 

2 4

Attackman Cir CHEW (No. 10) goes for the ball.

go so well for Dick Miller’s wrestl-
ing team. Plagued with an injury
here, an injury there, the Generals
could not come up with any depth
strength, and the 3-8 mark showed
it. Jay Clarke, Raz Rasberry, and
Dan Webster were all consistent,
and each of them were winners at
the CAC matches held in St. Louis.

Washington and Lee, with 85
points, finished second to Sewanee’s
100.

Came the spring, and initial dis-
appointment. Taking over the la-
crosse head coaching duties, former
Maryland All-America Dick Szlasa
(pronounced without the “z’”’) tried
valiantly to pick up the pieces, and
succeeded admirably in winning the
respect and devotion of players and
students alike. The 2-7 record
wasn’t very good, to be sure, but
Szlasa rekindled an interest in the
sport that might still be wanting
for lack of a better man.

Attackman Chip Chew, later to
be selected for the North-South
game, started the season by col-
lecting goals at an uncanny rate,
and he finally ended up with 13
and six assists. But when defenses
began homing in on him, along
came another attackman, Tom Pitt-

13

 

 

Tennis player TOM RUEGER
aims at a high one.

man, to take over. Pittman finished
with 19 goals, most of them garner-
ed in the second half of the season.

Both graduated in June, thus
leaving Szlasa with yet more prob-
lems, probably more than he ever
hankered for when he accepted the
job. To get started on the right
track, the genial coach has been
on the road these past few months,
looking for new talent in just about
every section of the Northeastern
U.S. He enthusiastically reports
good luck, and that’s the first real
sign for a lacrosse comeback at
WL.

The Generals’ track team had a
so-so experience, winning three and
losing four, but for Mike Neer
(remember him?) it was another
banner showing. Continually hit-
ting 6-5 in the high jump during
the regular season, Neer soared to
6-6% when he most needed it, the
finals of the CAC Spring Festival
here in May.

His chief rival—ironically—Wash-
ington University basketball center
Mark Edwards— hounded Neer as
the bar was raised an inch at a time.
But Edwards finally missed at 6-6,
Neer made it, and then went for the
sky despite a pulled leg muscle.
His winning height was a new
league record, naturally.

14

 

All-CAC THOM MITCHELL pitcher
winds up for a toss.

Washington and Lee finished
fourth in the Festival track sec-
tion, placed first in tennis (for the
second year in a row), and took
second spot in the golf competition.
Verne Canfield’s tennis squad post-
ed a 7-3 regular season mark, and
then took advantage of its home-
court setting to edge out Sewanee
for the CAC championship.

At the Lexington Golf Club,
though, head coach Cy Twombly’s
four-man aggregation couldn't
quite catch first-day leader Sewanee
in the 36-hole tourney. The Gen-
erals eventually trailed by 12
strokes, as Sewanee’s Rusty Napier
took medalist honors with a 145.

Twombly’s team ended the regu-
lar season with an outstanding 6-1-1
record.

If you were looking for a hero of
the spring sports calendar, it had
to be head coach Joe Lyles’ base-
ball team—Charlie Browners of the
regular season, darlings of the CAC
Festival and winners of W&L’s first
over-all league title in the six-year
history of the conference.

Going into the Festival, the base-
ball Generals had managed only a
dismal 6-9 record, and even that
was thought to be pretty good—
Lyles’ team was dirt poor in
pitchers.

   
   

Leftfielder Jim WILSON slams a low pitch.

  

wage hee
High jumper MIKE NEER
goes up and over.

To realize how bad it was, all
you had to do during a May after-
noon was watch Lyles wave in relief
from the outfield. First it was right-
fielder Charlie Freret, then center-
fielder Thom Mitchell, who eventu-
ally proved to be the top hurler on
the team. In fact, he won a spot on
the All-CAC team as a pitcher.

The troubles were plenty. During
one particular three-game stretch
midway through the season, W&L
pitching gave up an unbelievable
56 runs, and every one of those
games was played on supposedly
friendly Smith Field.

Then came the Festival, and
what a difference. Pitcher Bill
Rasmussen, striking out 10 in prob-
ably his best collegiate game, lost
a 1-0 thriller to Southwestern in the
opening contest when his mates
forgot what a bat was.

That sent the Generals into the
consolation bracket to face Sewanee
in a “must” game if W&L was to
win the over-all CAC champion-
ship. In came Mitchell from center-
field, out went Sewanee 1-2-3, and
W&L won, 2-1. That dropped the
Purple Tigers into last place in
baseball competition, and guaran-
teed the Generals the over-all
title.

The next game was anti-climatic,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Cy Twomety’s frown became a
smile at year’s end.

as freshman John Botcheller pitch-
ed W&L by Southwestern, 4-3, in
a revenge encounter. Leftfielder
Jim Wilson, who tripled mightily
in the game to assure him of no
worse than third place among the
nation’s leading triple hitters, was
also selected to the all-league squad.

It was a fitting tribute to retir-
ing athletic director Cy Twombly
that the school was able to field
such excellent teams throughout
the year and win for the first time
the conference championship.

Twombly himself supervised the
handling of the giant, 300-pound
bronze locomotive bell—standing as
the Presidents’ Trophy for over-all
CAC supremacy—upon the conclu-
sion of the Festival. And he rang
the darned thing for days on end
afterwards, smiling broadly every-
time he did it.

Now, Twombly is having trouble
keeping a secretary, what with all
the noise in his office where the
bell is placed. Every time a visitor
comes calling, he proudly sounds
it, and they say he even caused a
few classes to change early, since
the thing is almost as loud as the
bells in Ol’ George.

It’s great to go out a winner...
... Ding, Dong...

SUMMER 1968

NEWS
of the
CHAPTERS

MID-SOUTH

@ A BLACK-TIE RECEPTION and din-
ner heralded a welcome of the new
president of Washington and Lee
University to Memphis. President
and Mrs. Robert E. R. Huntley
were honored guests at the out-
standing event held on the evening
of May 15 at the Memphis Hunt
and Polo Club. Alumni and friends
of Washington and Lee from the
Mid-South area gathered for the
occasion. Accompanying the Presi-
dent were other representatives of
the University including Dr. and
Mrs. E. C. Atwood, Dean of Stu-
dents; Mr. and Mrs. Farris Hotch-
kiss, ’58, Assistant Director of De-
velopment; and Alumni Secretary
and Mrs. W. C. Washburn. Clinton
M. Early, °59, chapter president,
and Milburn K. Noell, Jr., ‘51, past
president, were in charge of the ar-
rangements. The ladies from Lex-
ington were entertained at noon at
a lovely luncheon in their honor at
the Memphis Country Club. Presi-
dent Huntley was the principal
speaker at dinner; he was introduc-
ed by J. Stewart Buxton, ‘36, a
member of the University Board of
Trustees. It was a most memorable
evening, and Mr. Early, in express-
ing thanks to all who had made
it such a success, paid a special
tribute to the committeemen and
their ladies.

ATLANTA

@ AFTER AN APRIL postponement
because of the assassination of Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr., the
alumni and friends of Washington
and Lee from the State of Georgia
and the Chattanooga, Tenn., area

 

joined at a formal dinner at the
Piedmont Driving Club in Atlanta
on May 14. The Atlanta chapter,
under the leadership of John
Candler, °58, was host for the
occasion. Special tribute and honor
was paid the two University Trus-
tees from Georgia—Messrs. Joseph
L. Lanier, '27, of West Point and
Joseph E. Birnie, 27, of Atlanta.
Mr. Candler, on behalf of the
Georgia alumni, presented a silver
tray to each trustee as an expression
of appreciation for their devoted
service to Washington and Lee.
President Robert E. R. Huntley
was the featured speaker for the
evening, and his remarks about the
University were enthusiastically re-
ceived. Also attending from Wash-
ington and Lee were Mrs. Huntley,
Dean and Mrs. Edward Atwood,

WASHINGTON + LEE

—
~ ' ’

In Memphis MILBURN NOELL greets PREsI-
DENT and Mrs. HUNTLEY and TRUSTEE and
Mrs. J. STEWART BUXTON.

Mr. and Mrs. Farris Hotchkiss, '58,
and Alumni Secretary and Mrs. W.
C. Washburn, ’40. Candler noted
that many alumni and their wives
were responsible for the beautiful
arrangements and extended the
warmest appreciation. A_ special
word of thanks went to Jack
Warner, °41, a paper manufactur-
ing executive from ‘Tuscaloosa,
Ala., whose private plane had
flown President Huntley to Atlanta
for the meeting.

Lb

 

A Foreword

HE FOLLOWING REPORT, prepared by Editorial Pro-
Pew for Education, a non-profit organization as-
sociated with the American Alumni Council, is recom-
mended reading for all Washington and Lee people.
It is a fair commentary on the financial difficulties in
higher education today. The nation’s colleges and uni-
versities are so vital to the welfare of American society
that no one can afford to be indifferent to the needs
of higher education.

Not that the report applies in every detail to Wash-
ington and Lee...

THE PHAIN FACIE TS: ":

Washington and Lee is now financially sound. It
is not operating on a deficit; it is not eating into its
endowment to meet expenses; it has raised its tuition,
but it has not priced itself out of the market; and
tuition continues, as it has for many years, to account
for about 50 per cent of income; it is able to offer
financial aid to all students who require it; the
budget is tight, but it has always been tight; annual
giving is not down, it is up; most important, the
quality of education at Washington and Lee is not
diminishing, it is expanding.

So why should Washington and Lee people bother
with the special report? The answer is that Washing-
ton and Lee cannot be isolated from the financial
pressures afflicting higher education today. Washing-
ton and Lee people need to understand what those
pressures are and what can happen unless those pres-
sures are relieved through knowledgeable interest and
generous support.

Washington and Lee has tremendously expensive
needs—an estimated $30 million to accomplish aca-
demic and physical goals in the years ahead. Alumni
and friends have always responded to the needs of
the University when those needs have been made
clear. There is every reason to expect the same kind
of response whenever the University asks for help.

Washington and Lee does not plead crisis. What
it does plead is understanding—a realization that
quality higher education, Washington and Lee educa-
tion, must have broad support. Hence the special

report. —The Editors

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A Special Report

‘The
ain Fact Is: :,

...our colleges and

universities “are facing

what might easily
become a Crisis”

 

 

(-)- COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES, Over the last 20 years, have
experienced an expansion that is without precedent—in build-
ings and in budgets, in students and in professors, in reputation
and in rewards—in power and pride and in deserved prestige. As
we try to tell our countrymen that we are faced with imminent
bankruptcy, we confront the painful fact that in the eyes of the
American people—and I think also in the eyes of disinterested
observers abroad—we are a triumphant success. The observers
seem to believe—and I believe myself—that the American cam-
pus ranks with the American corporation among the handful of
first-class contributions which our civilization has made to the
annals of human institutions. We come before the country to
plead financial emergency at a time when our public standing
has never been higher. It is at the least an unhappy accident of

timing.

—McGEorGE BUNDY

President, The Ford Foundation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A Special Report

STATE-SUPPORTED UNIVERSITY in the Midwest makes

a sad announcement: With more well-qualified

applicants for its freshman class than ever be-

fore, the university must tighten its entrance

requirements. Qualified though the kids are, the univer-
sity must turn many of them away.

> A private college in New England raises its tuition
fee for the seventh time since World War II. In doing
so, it admits ruefully: ‘“‘Many of the best high-school
graduates can’t afford to come here, any more.”’

> A state college network in the West, long regarded
as one of the nation’s finest, cannot offer its students
the usual range of instruction this year. Despite inten-
sive recruiting, more than 1,000 openings on the faculty
were unfilled at the start of the academic year.

> A church-related college in the South, whose de-
nomination’s leaders believe in strict separation of church
and state, severs its church ties in order to seek money
from the government. The college must have such money,
say its administrators—or it will die.

Outwardly, America’s colleges and universities ap-
pear more affluent than at any time in the past. In the
aggregate they have more money, more students, more
buildings, better-paid faculties, than ever before in their
history.

Yet many are on the edge of deep trouble.

‘**The plain fact,’ in the words of the president of
Columbia University, “‘is that we are facing what might
easily become a crisis in the financing of American higher
education, and the sooner we know about it, the better
off we will be.”’

HE TROUBLE is not limited to a few institutions.

Nor does it affect only one or two types of

institution. Large universities, small colleges;

state-supported and privately supported: the
problem faces them all.

Before preparing this report, the editors asked more
than 500 college and university presidents to tell us—
off the record, if they preferred—just how they viewed
the future of their institutions. With rare exceptions, the
presidents agreed on this assessment: That the money is
not now in sight to meet the rising costs of higher educa-
tion... to serve the growing numbers of bright, qualified
students .. . and to pay for the myriad activities that Amer-
icans now demand of their colleges and universities.

Important programs and necessary new buildings are

 

 

Aw OF US are hard-put to see where we are going
to get the funds to meet the educational demands

of the coming decade.

—A university president

 

 

being deferred for lack of money, the presidents said.
Many admitted to budget-tightening measures reminis-
cent of those taken in days of the Great Depression.

Is this new? Haven’t the colleges and universities al-
ways needed money? Is there something different about
the situation today?

The answer is ‘‘Yes’’—to all three questions.

The president of a large state university gave us this
view of the over-all situation, at both the publicly and
the privately supported institutions of higher education:

‘‘A good many institutions of higher learning are
operating at a deficit,” he said. ‘‘First, the private col-
leges and universities: they are eating into their endow-
ments in order to meet their expenses. Second, the public
institutions. It is not legal to spend beyond our means,
but here we have another kind of deficit: a deficit in
quality, which will be extremely difficult to remedy even
when adequate funding becomes available.”

Other presidents’ comments were equally revealing:

>» From a university in the Ivy League: ‘‘Independent
national universities face an uncertain future which
threatens to blunt their thrust, curb their leadership, and
jeopardize their independence. Every one that I know
about is facing a deficit in its operating budget, this
year or next. And all of us are hard-put to see where we
are going to get the funds to meet the educational de-
mands of the coming decade.”

> From a municipal college in the Midwest: ‘The best
word to describe our situation is “desperate.” We are
operating at a deficit of about 20 per cent of our total
expenditure.”

>» Froma private liberal arts college in Missouri: *‘Only
by increasing our tuition charges are we keeping our
heads above water. Expenditures are galloping to such
a degree that I don’t know how we will make out in the
future.”

>» From a church-related university on the West Coast:
‘*We face very serious problems. Even though our tuition
is below-average, we have already priced ourselves out of
part of our market. We have gone deeply into debt for
dormitories. Our church support is declining. At times,
the outlook is grim.”

» From a State university in the Big Ten: ‘‘The bud-
get for our operations must be considered tight. It is
less than we need to meet the demands upon the univer-
sity for teaching, research, and public service.”

>» From a small liberal arts college in Ohio: *‘We are

on a hand-to-mouth, ‘kitchen’ economy. Our ten-year
projections indicate that we can maintain our quality
only by doubling in size.”

>» From a small college in the Northeast: ‘‘For the
first time in its 150-year history, our college has a planned
deficit. We are holding our heads above water at the
moment—but, in terms of quality education, this can-
not long continue without additional means of support.”

> From a state college in California: *‘We are not
permitted to operate at a deficit. The funding of our bud-
get at a level considerably below that proposed by the
trustees has made it difficult for us to recruit staff mem-
bers and has forced us to defer very-much-needed im-
provements in our existing activities.”

>» From a women’s college in the South: *‘For the
coming year, our budget is the tightest we have had in
my fifteen years as president.”

HAT’S GONE WRONG?

Talk of the sort quoted above may
seem strange, as one looks at the un-
paralleled growth of America’s colleges

and universities during the past decade:

>» Hardly a campus in the land does not have a brand-
new building or one under construction. Colleges and
universities are spending more than $2 billion a year for
capital expansion.

> Faculty salaries have nearly doubled in the past
decade. (But in some regions they are still woefully low.)

> Private, voluntary support to colleges and univer-
sities has more than tripled since 1958. Higher educa-
tion’s share of the philanthropic dollar has risen from
11 per cent to 17 per cent.

> State tax funds appropriated for higher education
have increased 44 per cent in just two years, to a 1967-68
total of nearly $4.4 billion. This is 214 per cent more than
the sum appropriated eight years ago.

> Endowment funds have more than doubled over
the past decade. They’re now estimated to be about $12
billion, at market value.

> Federal funds going to institutions of higher educa-
tion have more than doubled in four years.

> More than 300 new colleges and universities have
been founded since 1945.

> All in all, the total expenditure this year for U.S.
higher education is some $18 billion—more than three
times as much as in 1955.

es

ie al eae 5
ete ad 2
ie a) Pa e

OE ii

|
|
1
i
:
4

 

¢
oe

 

Moreover, America’s colleges and universities have
absorbed the tidal wave of students that was supposed to
have swamped them by now. They have managed to ful-
fill their teaching and research functions and to under-
take a variety of new public-service programs—despite
the ominous predictions of faculty shortages heard ten
or fifteen years ago. Says one foundation official:

**The system is bigger, stronger, and more productive
than it has ever been, than any system of higher educa-
tion in the world.”

Why, then, the growing concern?

Re-examine the progress of the past ten years, and
this fact becomes apparent: The progress was great—
but it did not deal with the basic flaws in higher educa-
tion’s financial situation. Rather, it made the whole en-
terprise bigger, more sophisticated, and more expensive.

Voluntary contributions grew—but the complexity and
costliness of the nation’s colleges and universities grew
faster.

Endowment funds grew—but the need for the income
from them grew faster.

State appropriations grew—but the need grew faster.

Faculty salaries were rising. New courses were needed,
due to the unprecedented ‘knowledge explosion.’ More
costly apparatus was required, as scientific progress grew
more complex. Enrollments burgeoned—and students
stayed on for more advanced (and more expensive) train-
ing at higher levels.

And, for most of the nation’s 2,300 colleges and uni-
versities, an old problem remained—and was intensified,
as the costs of education rose: gifts, endowment, and
government funds continued to go, disproportionately,
to a relative handful of institutions. Some 36 per cent of
all voluntary contributions, for example, went to just 55
major universities. Some 90 per cent of all endowment
funds were owned by fewer than 5 per cent of the insti-
tutions. In 1966, the most recent year reported, some 70
per cent of the federal government’s funds for higher
education went to 100 institutions.

McGeorge Bundy, the president of the Ford Founda-
tion, puts it this way:

**Great gains have been made; the academic profession
has reached a wholly new level of economic strength,
and the instruments of excellence—the libraries and

Drawings by Peter Hooven

 

 

 

ee NEW ATTEMPT at a massive solution has left
the trustees and presidents just where they started.

—A foundation president

 

 

laboratories—are stronger than ever. But the university
that pauses to look back will quickly fall behind in the
endless race to the future.”

Mr. Bundy says further:

‘“‘The greatest general problem of higher education is
money .... The multiplying needs of the nation’s col-
leges and universities force a recognition that each new
attempt at a massive solution has left the trustees and
presidents just where they started: in very great need.”

HE FINANCIAL PROBLEMS of higher education
are unlike those, say, of industry. Colleges and
universities do not operate like General Mo-
tors. On the contrary, they sell their two pri-

mary services—teaching and research—at a loss.

It is safe to say (although details may differ from
institution to institution) that the American college or
university student pays only a fraction of the cost of his
education.

This cost varies with the level of education and with
the educational practices of the institution he attends.
Undergraduate education, for instance, costs less than
graduate education—which in turn may cost less than
medical education. And the cost of educating a student
in the sciences is greater than in the humanities. What-
ever the variations, however, the student’s tuition and
fees pay only a portion of the bill.

‘*As private enterprises,”’ says one president, “‘we don't
seem to be doing so well. We lose money every time we
take in another student.”

Of course, neither he nor his colleagues on other
campuses would have it otherwise. Nor, it seems clear,
would most of the American people.

But just as student instruction is provided at a sub-
stantial reduction from the actual cost, so is the research
that the nation’s universities perform on a vast scale for
the federal government. On this particular below-cost
service, as contrasted with that involving the provision
of education to their students, many colleges and univer-
sities are considerably less than enthusiastic.

In brief: The federal government rarely pays the full
cost of the research it sponsors. Most of the money goes
for direct costs (compensation for faculty time, equip-
ment, computer use, etc.) Some of it goes for indirect
costs (such ‘‘overhead”’ costs of the institution as payroll
departments, libraries, etc.). Government policy stipu-
lates that the institutions receiving federal research grants

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

must share in the cost of the research by contributing, in
some fashion, a percentage of the total amount of the
grant.

University presidents have insisted for many years
that the government should pay the full cost of the re-
search it sponsors. Under the present system of cost-
sharing, they point out, it actually costs their institutions
money to conduct federally sponsored research. This has
been one of the most controversial issues in the partner-
ship between higher education and the federal govern-
ment, and it continues to be so.

In commercial terms, then, colleges and universities
sell their products at a loss. If they are to avoid going
bankrupt, they must_ make up—from other sources—the
difference between the income they receive for their ser-
vices and the money they spend to provide them.

With costs spiraling upward, that task becomes ever
more formidable.

ERE ARE SOME of the harsh facts: Operating ex-

penditures for higher education more than

tripled during the past decade—from about $4

billion in 1956 to $12.7 billion last year. By
1970, if government projections are correct, colleges and
universities will be spending over $18 billion for their
current operations, plus another $2 billion or $3 billion
for capital expansion.

Why such steep increases in expenditures? There are
several reasons:

> Student enrollment is now close to 7 million—
twice what it was in 1960.

> The rapid accumulation of new knowledge and a
resulting trend toward specialization have led to a broad-
ening of the curricula, a sharp increase in graduate study,
a need for sophisticated new equipment, and increased
library acquisitions. All are very costly.

>» An unprecedented growth in faculty salaries—long
overdue—has raised instructional costs at most institu-
tions. (Faculty salaries account for roughly half of the
educational expenses of the average institution of higher
learning.)

>» About 20 per cent of the financial ‘‘growth” during
the past decade is accounted for by inflation.

Not only has the over-all cost of higher education in-
creased markedly, but the cost per student has risen
steadily, despite increases in enrollment which might, in
any other “‘industry,” be expected to lower the unit cost.

Colleges and universities apparently have not im-
proved their productivity at the same pace as the econ-
omy generally. A recent study of the financial trends in
three private universities illustrates this. Between 1905
and 1966, the educational cost per student at the three
universities, viewed compositely, increased 20-fold,
against an economy-wide increase of three- to four-fold.
In each of the three periods of peace, direct costs per
student increased about 8 per cent, against a 2 per cent
annual increase in the economy-wide index.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Some observers conclude from this that higher educa-
tion must be made more efficient—that ways must be
found to educate more students with fewer faculty and
staff members. Some institutions have moved in this
direction by adopting a year-round calendar of opera-
tions, permitting them to make maximum use of the
faculty and physical plant. Instructional devices, pro-
grammed learning, closed-circuit television, and other
technological systems are being employed to increase
productivity and to gain economies through larger
classes.

The problem, however, is to increase efficiency with-
out jeopardizing the special character of higher educa-
tion. Scholars are quick to point out that management
techniques and business practices cannot be applied
easily to colleges and universities. They observe, for
example, that on strict cost-accounting principles, a col-
lege could not justify its library. A physics professor,
complaining about large classes, remarks: “‘When you
get a hundred kids in a classroom, that’s not education;
that’s show business.”’

The college and university presidents whom we sur-
veyed in the preparation of this report generally believe
their institutions are making every dollar work. There is
room for improvement, they acknowledge. But few feel
the financial problems of higher education can be signifi-
cantly reduced through more efficient management.

NE THING seems fairly certain: The costs of
higher education will continue to rise. To
meet their projected expenses, colleges and
universities will need to increase their annual

operating income by more than $4 billion during the

four-year period between 1966 and 1970. They must find

another $8 billion or $10 billion for capital outlays.
Consider what this might mean for a typical private

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

university. A recent report presented this hypothetical
case, based on actual projections of university expendi-
tures and income:

The institution’s budget is now in balance. Its educa-
tional and general expenditures total $24.5 million a
year.

Assume that the university’s expenditures per student
will continue to grow at the rate of the past ten years—
7.5 per cent annually. Assume, too, that the university’s
enrollment will continue to grow at its rate of the past
ten years—3.4 per cent annually. Ten years hence, the
institution’s educational and general expenses would total
$70.7 million.

At best, continues the analysis, tuition payments in
the next ten years will grow at a rate of 6 per cent a year;
at worst, at a rate of 4 per cent—compared with 9 per
cent over the past ten years. Endowment income will
grow at a rate of 3.5 to 5 per cent, compared with 7.7 per
cent over the past decade. Gifts and grants will grow at
a rate of 4.5 to 6 per cent, compared with 6.5 per cent
over the past decade.

‘*If the income from private sources grew at the higher
rates projected,” says the analysis, “‘it would increase
from $24.5 million to $50.9 million—leaving a deficit of
$19.8 million, ten years hence. If its income from private
sources grew at the /ower rates projected, it would have
increased to only $43 million—leaving a shortage of
$27.8 million, ten years hence.”

In publicly supported colleges and universities, the
outlook is no brighter, although the gloom is of a differ-
ent variety. Says the report of a study by two professors
at the University of Wisconsin:

‘Public institutions of higher education in the United
States are now operating at a quality deficit of more than
a billion dollars a year. In addition, despite heavy con-
struction schedules, they have accumulated a major capi-
tal lag.” |

The deficit cited by the Wisconsin professors is a com-
putation of the cost of bringing the public institutions’
expenditures per student to a level comparable with that
at the private institutions. With the enrollment growth
expected by 1975, the professors calculate, the ‘‘quality
deficit” in public higher education will reach $2.5 billion.

The problem is caused, in large part, by the tremendous
enrollment increases in public colleges and universities.
The institutions’ resources, says the Wisconsin study,
**may not prove equal to the task.”

Moreover, there are indications that public institutions
may be nearing the limit of expansion, unless they receive
a massive infusion of new funds. One of every seven pub-
lic universities rejected qualified applicants from their
own states last fall; two of every seven rejected qualified
applicants from other states. One of every ten raised ad-
missions standards for in-state students; one in six raised
standards for out-of-state students.

ILL THE FUNDS be found to meet the pro-

jected cost increases of higher education?

Colleges and universities have tradi-

tionally received their operating income

from three sources: from the students, in the form of tui-

tion and fees; from the state, in the form of legislative

appropriations; and from individuals, foundations, and

corporations, in the form of gifts. (Money from the federal

government for operating expenses is still more of a hope
than a reality.)

Can these traditional sources of funds continue to
meet the need? The question is much on the minds of the
nation’s college and university presidents.

> Tuition and fees: They have been rising—and are
likely to rise more. A number of private “‘prestige’’ in-
stitutions have passed the $2,000 mark. Public institutions
are under mounting pressure to raise tuition and fees,
and their student charges have been rising at a faster rate
than those in private institutions.

The problem of student charges is one of the most
controversial issues in higher education today. Some feel
that the student, as the direct beneficiary of an education,
should pay most or all of its real costs. Others disagree
emphatically: since society as a whole is the ultimate
beneficiary, they argue, every student should have the
right to an education, whether he can afford it or not.

The leaders of publicly supported colleges and univer-
sities are almost unanimous on this point: that higher
tuitions and fees will erode the premise of equal oppor-

 

 

 

ee We are reaching a point of diminishing

returns.

It’s like buying a second home.

—A college president

—A parent

 

 

tunity on which public higher education is based. They
would like to see the present trend reversed—toward free,
or at least lower-cost, higher education.

Leaders of private institutions find the rising tuitions
equally disturbing. Heavily dependent upon the income
they receive from students, many such institutions find
that raising their tuition is inescapable, as costs rise.
Scores of presidents surveyed for this report, however,
said that mounting tuition costs are “‘pricing us out of
the market.”’ Said one: *‘As our tuition rises beyond the
reach of a larger and larger segment of the college-age
population, we find it more and more difficult to attract
our quota of students. We are reaching a point of dimin-
ishing returns.”

Parents and students also are worried. Said one father
who has been financing a college education for three
daughters: “‘It’s like buying a second home.”’

Stanford Professor Roger A. Freeman says it isn’t
really that bad. In his book, Crisis in College Finance?,
he points out that when tuition increases have been ad-
justed to the shrinking value of the dollar or are related
to rising levels of income, the cost to the student actually
declined between 1941 and 1961. But this is small consola-
tion to a man with an annual salary of $15,000 and three
daughters in college.

Colleges and universities will be under increasing pres-
sure to raise their rates still higher, but if they do, they
will run the risk of pricing themselves beyond the means
of more and more students. Indeed, the evidence is strong
that resistance to high tuition is growing, even in rela-
tively well-to-do families. The College Scholarship Ser-
vice, an arm of the College Entrance Examination Board,
reported recently that some middle- and upper-income
parents have been “‘substituting relatively low-cost insti-
tutions’’ because of the rising prices at some of the na-
tion’s colleges and universities.

The presidents of such institutions have nightmares
over such trends. One of them, the head of a private
college in Minnesota, told us:

‘*We are so dependent upon tuition for approximately
50 per cent of our operating expenses that if 40 fewer
students come in September than we expect, we could
have a budgetary deficit this year of $50,000 or more.”

> State appropriations: The 50 states have appropri-
ated nearly $4.4 billion for their colleges and universities
this year—a figure that includes neither the $1—$2 billion
spent by public institutions for capital expansion, nor
the appropriations of local governments, which account

for about 10 per cent of all public appropriations for the
operating expenses of higher education.

The record set by the states is remarkable—one that
many observers would have declared impossible, as re-
cently as eight years ago. In those eight years, the states
have increased their appropriations for higher education
by an incredible 214 per cent.

Can the states sustain this growth in their support of
higher education? Will they be willing to do so?

The more pessimistic observers believe that the states
can’t and won’t, without a drastic overhaul in the tax
structures on which state financing is based. The most
productive tax sources, such observers say, have been
pre-empted by the federal government. They also believe
that more and more state funds will be used, in the fu-
ture, to meet increasing demands for other services.

Optimists, on the other hand, are convinced the states
are far from reaching the upper limits of their ability to
raise revenue. Tax reforms, they say, will enable states
to increase their annual budgets sufficiently to meet higher
education’s needs.

The debate is theoretical. As a staff report to the Ad-
visory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations con-
cluded: ‘‘The appraisal of a state’s fiscal capacity is a
political decision [that] it alone can make. It is not a
researchable problem.”

Ultimately, in short, the decision rests with the tax-
payer.

> Voluntary private gifts: Gifts are vital to higher
education.

In private colleges and universities, they are part of the
lifeblood. Such institutions commonly budget a deficit,
and then pray that it will be met by private gifts.

In public institutions, private gifts supplement state
appropriations. They provide what is often called ‘‘a
margin for excellence.’” Many public institutions use such
funds to raise faculty salaries above the levels paid for by
the state, and are thus able to compete for top scholars.
A number of institutions depend upon private gifts for
student facilities that the state does not provide.

Will private giving grow fast enough to meet the grow-
ing need? As with state appropriations, opinions vary.

John J. Schwartz, executive director of the American
Association of Fund-Raising Counsel, feels there is a
great untapped reservoir. At present, for example, only
one out of every four alumni and alumnae contributes to
higher education. And, while American business corpora-
tions gave an estimated $300 million to education

OR Oe ae

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Te

in 1965-66, this was only about 0.37 per cent of their net
income before taxes. On the average, companies contrib-
ute only about 1.10 per cent of net income before taxes
to all causes—well below the 5 per cent allowed by the
Federal government. Certainly there is room for expan-
sion.

(Colleges and universities are working overtime to tap
this reservoir. Mr. Schwartz’s association alone lists 117
colleges and universities that are now campaigning to
raise a combined total of $4 billion.)

But others are not so certain that expansion in private
giving will indeed take place. The 46th annual survey by
the John Price Jones Company, a firm of fund-raising
counselors, sampled 50 colleges and universities and found
a decline in voluntary giving of 8.7 per cent in 12 months.
The Council for Financial Aid to Education and the
American Alumni Council calculate that voluntary sup-
port for higher education in 1965-66 declined by some
1.2 per cent in the same period.

Refining these figures gives them more meaning. The
major private universities, for example, received about
36 per cent of the $1.2 billion given to higher education
—a decrease from the previous year. Private liberal arts
colleges also fell behind: coeducational colleges dropped
10 per cent, men’s colleges dropped 16.2 per cent, and
women’s colleges dropped 12.6 per cent. State institutions,
on the other hand, increased their private support by
23.8 per cent.

The record of some cohesive groups of colleges and
universities is also revealing. Voluntary support of eight
Ivy League institutions declined 27.8 per cent, for a total
loss of $61 million. The Seven College Conference, a
group of women’s colleges, reported a drop of 41 per cent.

The Associated Colleges of the Midwest dropped about

bi rs,

 

soni.

entedt

 

 

 

 

(), THE QUESTION OF FEDERAL AID, everybody seems
to be running to the same side of the boat.

—A college president

 

 

5.5 per cent. The Council of Southern Universities de-
clined 6.2 per cent. Fifty-five major private universities
received 7.7 per cent less from gifts.

Four groups gained. The state universities and colleges
received 20.5 per cent more in private gifts in 1965-66
than in the previous year. Fourteen technological insti-
tutions gained 10.8 per cent. Members of the Great Lakes
College Association gained 5.6 per cent. And Western
Conference universities, plus the University of Chicago,
gained 34.5 per cent. (Within each such group, of course,
individual colleges may have gained or lost differently
from the group as a whole.)

The biggest drop in voluntary contributions came in
foundation grants. Although this may have been due, in
part, to the fact that there had been some unusually large
grants the previous year, it may also have been a fore-
taste of things to come. Many of those who observe
foundations closely think such grants will be harder and
harder for colleges and universities to come by, in years
to come.

EARING that the traditional sources of revenue may

not yield the necessary funds, college and uni-

versity presidents are looking more and more to

Washington for the solution to their financial
problems.

The president of a large state university in the South,
whose views are typical of many, told us: “Increased fed-
eral support is essential to the fiscal stability of the col-
leges and universities of the land. And such aid is a proper
federal expenditure.” |

Most of his colleagues agreed—some reluctantly. Said
the president of a college in Iowa: ‘‘I don’t like it. . . but
it may be inevitable.”’ Another remarked: *‘On the ques-

 

 

tion of federal aid, everybody seems to be running to the
same side of the boat.”

More federal aid is almost certain to come. The ques-
tion is, When? And in what form?

Realism compels this answer: In the near future, the
federal government is unlikely to provide substantial
support for the operating expenses of the country’s col-
leges and universities.

The war in Vietnam is one reason. Painful effects of
war-prompted economies have already been felt on the
campuses. The effective federal funding of research per
faculty member is declining. Construction grants are be-
coming scarcer. Fellowship programs either have been
reduced or have merely held the line.

Indeed, the changes in the flow of federal money to the
campuses may be the major event that has brought higher
education’s financial problems to their present head.

Would things be different in a peacetime economy?
Many college and university administrators think so.
They already are planning for the day when the Vietnam
war ends and when, the thinking goes, huge sums of fed-
eral money will be available for higher education. It is no
secret that some government officials are operating on
the same assumption and are designing new programs of
support for higher education, to be put into effect when
the war ends.

Others are not so certain the postwar money flow is
that inevitable. One of the doubters is Clark Kerr, former
president of the University of California and a man with
considerable first-hand knowledge of the relationship be-
tween higher education and the federal government. Mr.
Kerr is inclined to believe that the colleges and universi-
ties will have to fight for their place on a national priority
list that will be crammed with a number of other pressing

 

 

 

 

 

Uae AND UNIVERSITIES are tough. They have
survived countless cataclysms and crises, and one
way or another they will endure.

—A college president

 

problems: air and water pollution, civil rights, and the
plight of the nation’s cities, to name but a few.

One thing seems clear: The pattern of federal aid must
change dramatically, if it is to help solve the financial
problems of U.S. higher education. Directly or indirectly,
more federal dollars must be applied to meeting the in-
creasing costs of operating the colleges and universities,
even as the government continues its support of students,
of building programs, and of research.

N SEARCHING for a way out of their financial difficul-

ties, colleges and universities face the hazard that their

individual interests may conflict. Some form of com-

petition (since the institutions are many and the
sources of dollars few) is inevitable and healthy. But one
form of competition is potentially dangerous and de-
structive and, in the view of impartial supporters of all
institutions of higher education, must be avoided at all
costs.

This is a conflict between private and public colleges
and universities.

In simpler times, there was little cause for friction.
Public institutions received their funds from the states.
Private institutions received their funds from private
sources.

No longer. All along the line, and with increasing fre-
quency, both types of institution are seeking both public
and private support—often from the same _ sources:

> The state treasuries: More and more private insti-
tutions are suggesting that some form of state aid is not
only necessary but appropriate. A number of states have
already enacted programs of aid to students attending
private institutions. Some 40 per cent of the state ap-
propriation for higher education in Pennsylvania now
goes to private institutions.

>» The private philanthropists: More and more public
institutions are seeking gifts from individuals, founda-
tions, and corporations, to supplement the funds they
receive from the state. As noted earlier in this report,
their efforts are meeting with growing success.

> The federal government: Both public and private
colleges and universities receive funds from Washington.
But the different types of institution sometimes disagree
on the fundamentals of distributing it.

Should the government help pay the operating costs of
colleges and universities by making grants directly to the
institutions—perhaps through a formula based on enroll-

 

ments? The heads of many public institutions are inclined
to think so. The heads of many low-enrollment, high-
tuition private institutions, by contrast, tend to favor pro-
grams that operate indirectly—perhaps by giving enough
money to the students themselves, to enable them to pay
for an education at whatever institutions they might
choose.

Similarly, the strongest opposition to long-term, fed-
erally underwritten student-loan plans—some envisioning
a payback period extending over most of one’s lifetime—
comes from public institutions, while some private-college
and university leaders find, in such plans, a hope that
their institutions might be able to charge ‘‘full-cost’”’ tui-
tion rates without barring students whose families can’t
afford to pay.

In such frictional situations, involving not only billions
of dollars but also some very deep-seated convictions
about the country’s educational philosophy, the chances
that destructive conflicts might develop are obviously
great. If such conflicts were to grow, they could only sap
the energies of all who engage in them.

F THERE IS INDEED A CRISIS building in American higher

education, it is not solely a problem of meeting the

minimum needs of our colleges and universities in

the years ahead. Nor, for most, is it a question of
survive or perish; ‘‘colleges and universities are tough,”
as one president put it; ‘“‘they have survived countless
cataclysms and crises, and one way or another they will
endure.”

The real crisis will be finding the means of providing
the quality, the innovation, the pioneering that the nation
needs, if its system of higher education is to meet the
demands of the morrow.

Not only must America’s colleges and universities
serve millions more students in the years ahead; they
must also equip these young people to live in a world that
is changing with incredible swiftness and complexity. At
the same time, they must carry on the basic research on
which the nation’s scientific and technological advance-
ment rests. And they must be ever-ready to help meet the
immediate and long-range needs of society; ever-responsive
to society’s demands.

At present, the questions outnumber the answers.

>» How can the United States make sure that its col-
leges and universities not only will accomplish the mini-
mum task but will, in the words of one corporate leader,

 

 

 

1

Mee
adel

—

 

 

    
   
    
   

  
 

    

 

 

a7
a)
hotly oe
,

= J j ee . >

; t . 2 4 > 7
i Post te ¢ 3
sce vE Ss we

; 2} Z Pp . . i

< §$3* <'s = fs a F*

e HEE .> 4 aA :
apeag wv

 

ee CO Poy
x

 

 
  

ai! AOFeG "
Jean

 

 

 

 

 

 

or

~
—
or >
7
>

a

w

“ere

 

    

EE ER A ee RY Bae NY EY
-_—

 

ENB ries ny. saleinang

: CE a Oe wre

 

   

see
A ee Or OP eee Oe ee

EP ORE RO rr PRE Ee ME FF

> iene

 

id

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nose. IS MORE IMPORTANT than the critical and |
knowledgeable interest of our alumni. It cannot
possibly be measured in merely financial terms.

—A university president

 

 

provide “‘an educational system adequate to enable us to
live in the complex environment of this century?”

> Do we really want to preserve the diversity of an
educational system that has brought the country a
strength unknown in any other time or any other place?
And, if so, can we?

> How can we provide every youth with as much
education as he is qualified for?

> Can a balance be achieved in the sources of higher
education’s support, so that public and private institutions
can flourish side by side?

> How can federal money best be channeled into our
colleges and universities without jeopardizing their inde-
pendence and without discouraging support either from
the state legislatures or from private philanthropy?

The answers will come painfully; there is no panacea.
Quick solutions, fashioned in an atmosphere of crisis, are
likely to compound the problem. The right answers will
emerge only from greater understanding on the part of
the country’s citizens, from honest and candid discussion
of the problems, and from the cooperation and support of
all elements of society.

The president of a state university in the Southwest told
us: ‘‘Among state universities, nothing is more important

The report on this and the preceding 15
pages is the product of a cooperative en-
deavor in which scores of schools, colleges,
and universities are taking part. It was pre-
pared under the direction of the group listed
below, who form EDITORIAL PROJECTS FOR
EDUCATION, a non-profit organization associ-
ated with the American Alumni Council.

JOHN I. MATTILL
Massachusetts Institute
of Technology
KEN METZLER
The University of Oregon
RUSSELL OLIN
The University of Colorado
JOHN W. PATON
Wesleyan University
ROBERT M. RHODES
The University of Pennsylvania

DENTON BEAL
Carnegie-Mellon University

DAVID A. BURR
The University of Oklahoma

MARALYN O. GILLESPIE
Swarthmore College

CHARLES M. HELMKEN
American Alumni Council

GEORGE C. KELLER
Columbia University

ra

CORBIN GWALTNEY
Executive Editor

JOHN A. CROWL
Associate Editor

than the growing critical and knowledgeable interest of
our alumni. That interest leads to general support. It
cannot possibly be measured in merely financial terms.”

A private college president said: “*‘The greatest single
source of improvement can come from a realization on
the part of a broad segment of our population that higher
education must have support. Not only will people have
to give more, but more will have to give.”

But do people understand? A special study by the
Council for Financial Aid to Education found that:

>» 82 per cent of persons in managerial positions or
the professions do not consider American business to be
an important source of gift support for colleges and
universities.

> 59 per cent of persons with incomes of $10,000 or
over do not think higher education has financial problems.

> 52 per cent of college graduates apparently are not
aware that their alma mater has financial problems.

To America’s colleges and universities, these are the
most discouraging revelations of all. Unless the American
people—especially the college and university alumni—
can come alive to the reality of higher education’s im-
pending crisis, then the problems of today will be the
disasters of tomorrow.

Naturally, in a report of such length and
scope, not all statements necessarily reflect
the views of all the persons involved, or of
their institutions, Copyright © 1968 by Edi-
torial Projects for Education, Inc. All rights
reserved; no part may be reproduced without
the express permission of the editors. Printed
in U.S. A.

STANLEY SAPLIN
New York University

VERNE A. STADTMAN
The University of California

FREDERIC A. STOTT
Phillips Academy, Andover

FRANK J, TATE
The Ohio State University

CHARLES E. WIDMAYER
Dartmouth College

DOROTHY F. WILLIAMS
Simmons College

RONALD A. WOLK
The Carnegie Commission on
Higher Education

ELIZABETH BOND WOOD
Sweet Briar College

CHESLEY WORTHINGTON
Brown University

WILLIAM A, MILLER, JR.
Managing Editor

 

 

 

BEae
| ' as

          
 

          

ee ute

s
=
%
¢
-
+
”
x

Alumni fathers of 1968 graduates seated (left to right) are WILLIAM H. ARMENTROUT, 9a: GEORGE E. WAINscoTT, '28; CHARLEs I. LEwWIs,
‘30; ALLEN B. CRaic, JR., ‘39; DONALD JOHN GODEHN, ; JOHN H. LAWRENCE, '42; MARTIN SPECTOR, '25; HOWARD T. SHEPHERD, '40;

JOHN WARREN RICE, ‘33; JOHN HARDIN WARD, III, ‘39; Rogar E. CLAPP, JR., ‘30; AuGUsTUs R. MERRILL, ‘32; EARL C. THOMPSON,
JR., “38; JACK Compton Bear, ‘38. Sons standing are E. H. ARMeENTROUT; J. M. Wainscott; C. C. Lewis; A. B. Craic, III; D. J.
GODEHN, JR.; J. H. LAwrence; M. J. Spector; S. K. SHEPHERD; J. W. Rice, JR.; J. H. Warp, IV; R. T. Crapp; A. L. MERRILL;
P. C. THOMPSON; C. S. Bear, II; E. A. Dopp, Jr.

 

Fathers seated (left to right) are WILLIAM H. BAUGHER, JR., '44; THOMAs D. ANDERSON, '34L; ROBERT VERNON MAy, ’30; NED HAROLD
BROWER, ‘42; WILLIAM S. ROSENBERG, "32; EDMUND P. LAWRENCE, ‘44; JOSEPH AUBREY MATTHEWS, ‘42; JOHN M. Jones, III, °37;
WILSON F. VELLINES, '38; W. F. STONE, '33; GEORGE B. ee ‘30; Howarp K. TAYLOE, ‘28. Sons standing are Houston KIM-
BROUGH; W. H. BAUGHER, J. S. ANDERSON; R. V. MAy, JR.; P. A. Brower; S. B. ROSENBERG; E, P. LAWRENCE, JR.; J. A. MATTHEWS,
JR; W. F. VeLtines, JrR.; W. F. Stone; T. J. Crappock; H. 5 TAYLOE, JR.; HOwArD Capito.

.

At right, the fathers of the 1968 law
graduates are VINCENT CASSEL ADAMSON,
‘39L; WILLIAM GILBERT FAULK, '34; EDWIN
WALLACE BROWN, '25; HARDWICK STUART,
‘38L; EpMUND R. WIEGANDT, ‘39. Sons are
V. C. ADAMSON, JR.; W. G. FAULK, JR;
J. W. Brown; H. Stuart, Jr; R. C.
WIEGANDT (holding son, Eric RUDOLPH);
T. St. M. COoLeMAN.

 

SUMMER 1968 33

 

Washington and Lee, on Friday,
June 7, conferred an_ honorary
degree on Fred M. Vinson, a.
Assistant Attorney General in
charge of the Criminal Division of
the Justice Department. Mr. Vin-
son almost missed being in Lex-
ington for the honor. He had been
ordered to Los Angeles to help
investigate the shooting of Sen.
Robert F. Kennedy. Then Attorney
General Ramsey Clark remember-
ed the degree Mr. Vinson was to
receive, canceled the order, and
insisted that Mr. Vinson come to
Lexington. But the next day, he
got another order: Go to London
and arrange the extradition of
James Earl Ray, the suspect in the
murder of Dr. Martin Luther King.
On Monday, June 10, the New
York Times ran the following “Man
in the News” feature on Mr. Vin-

son:

Man in the News

One day in 1965 the tele-
phone rang in the white brick
home of Mrs. Fred M. Vinson
Sr., widow of the Chief Justice
of the United States. The call-
er was President Johnson.
“Where's Fred Jr.?” he asked.
Mrs. Vinson told the Presi-
dent her son was in Florida
on a golfing holiday. Mr.
Johnson told Mrs. Vinson he
wanted her son to come to
work for the Government.

“Mr. President,” said Mrs.
Vinson, “‘you strike terror in
my heart.”

Yesterday, speaking from
her home in Washington,
while her son was in London

arranging the extradition of

James Earl Ray, the suspect
in the assassination of the
Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King
Jr... Mrs. Vinson explained
her response to the President.

“Because I’m tired of pub-
lic service,” she said. “My
husband had spent all of his
adult years in public service.
It’s a very grueling life,
really.”

Yet, she recalled, her son

34

 

W&L
MEN

HERE
AND THERE

FRED M. VINSON, JR.

“didn’t hesitate for a mo-
ment” to abandon a lucrative
partnership in a Washington
law firm to accept the post
he now holds of Assistant At-
torney General in charge of
the Criminal Division of the
Justice Department.

Mr. Vinson’s former law

partner, F. Elwood Davis, of

the firm that once was Rea-
soner, Davis & Vinson, recall-
ed that the late Chief Justice
had died without leaving a
will and that it was said,
‘“Money’s not important to
the Vinsons.”’

Mrs. Vinson said of her son,
‘He followed exactly in the
footsteps of his father.”

To both, she left little
doubt, public service was a
compelling idea.

Like his father, Fred Moore
Jr. was captain of the baseball
and basketball teams in col-

 

 

lege, president of the student
body and a scholar, who made
Phi Beta Kappa.

Like his father, he was born
in Louisa, Ky. The date was
April 3, 1925, and as far as
his mother, the former Ro-
berta Dixon, knows, he al-
ways wanted to be a lawyer,
like his father. ‘He's very
proud of his father,” she said.
Fred Jr. and his _ brother
James, district development
specialist for the Appalachian
Regional Commission - staff,
grew up in Washington. Fred,
who could have gone to priv-
at school, chose to go to
Woodrow Wilson High
School, a public institution.

When he entered the Army
Air Force in 1943, his mother
said, he shunned an oppor-
tunity to become an officer,
preferring instead to become
a gunner. He held the rank
of sergeant and was in the
crew of a B-2g destined for
duty in the Pacific when Ja-
pan capitulated.

Mr. Vinson was graduated
from Washington and Lee
University in 1948, and three
years later, it awarded him
his law degree.

Mr. Vinson then entered
the general practice of law
in Washington. In 1954,
shortly after his _ father’s
death, Mr. Vinson joined the
Reasoner, Davis firm. A year
later he became a partner.

‘He is a very, very bright
man,” Mr. Davis said. “He
does a tremendous amount of
work in a short time with no
effort. When he’s handled a
client, the client really didn’t
feel the great job he was do-
ing.”

He added, “He is a very
good trial lawyer as well as
a very good business lawyer.”

In 1955, Mr. Vinson mar-
ried Nell Pharr Morrison, a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Phi Beta Kappa graduate of
the Women’s College of the
University of North Carolina.
Among those who attended
the wedding were the late
Sam Rayburn, Speaker of the
House of Representatives,
three United States Senators,
one former Senator, and Rob-
ert I. Stevens, the Secretary
of the Army.

‘The Vinsons, who live in a
three-bedroom, white brick
home in Westmoreland Hills,
Md., not far from Washing-
ton, have two children, Fred
III, 12 years old, and Carolyn,
8.

Mrs. Vinson, who was suf-
fering yesterday from laryn-
gitis, whispered that her
husband was an avid bridge
and golf player, although his
job has prevented him from
enjoying either lately.

Mr. Davis said that Mr.
Vinson, a member of the
Burning Tree Club in Be-
thesda, Md., had been a 7-
handicap golfer. “I will say,”
he declared, “that since he’s
had this job, his handicap’s
risen.”

Mr. Davis praised Mr. Vin-
son’s skill at bridge and his
sense of humor, and said,
“With all of his outgoingness,
he’s modest.”

At her home, Mr. Vinson’s
mother said that last Friday
her son had been awarded an
honorary Doctor of Laws de-
gree by Washington and Lee,
but apparently had done
nothing to publicize the
honor.

‘‘Mothers,”’ she said, “aren’t
hesitant about such things.”

*Prairie Prado’

A Washington and _ Lee
alumnus, William B. Jordan,
‘62, is in charge of what has
become known as a “Prairie
Prado’’—a growing collection

SUMMER 1968

 

of Spanish paintings in the
Virginia Meadows Museum at
Southern Methodist Universi-
ty in Dallas. The museum is
causing excitement in the art
world.

The museum was founded
in 1965 by Dallas oil million-
aire Algur H. Meadows in
memory of his first wife. ‘The
building cost $350,000, and it
has an endowment of $1 mil-
lion. Dr. Jordan became its
first director in July, 1967.

Milson Esterow, art writer
and critic of the New York
Times, wrote that with Dr.
Jordan’s “taste and imagina-
tion” the museum “has exper-
ienced a remarkable transfor-
mation.”” He made a careful
study of the collection and
eliminated pictures not of
museum quality. During the
past year he supervised the
spending of $2.5 million—a
gift from the Meadows Foun-
dation—for acquisitions. The
result is that the museum has
become a major center for the
study of Spanish art in Amer-
ica.

The collection contains im-
portant works by Velazquez,

a. W\
$ ro are
L } ers

bik

 

Murillo, Zurburan, Goya,
Juan de Sevilla, and others.
Velazquez’s portrait of King
Philip IV, painted probably
in 1624, is one of the most im-
portant paintings by him in
this country. Dr. Jordan says
the portrait is considered by
scholars to be an_ essential
painting for a true under-
standing of Velazquez as a
portraitist.

Dr. Jordan is also chair-
man of the Division of Fine
Art at SMU, is developing an
art history program and plan-
ning to publish a series of
scholarly publications on
Spanish artists.

A native of San Antonio,
Dr. Jordan received a doctor-
ate in Spanish painting in
1967 from the New York Uni-
versity Institute of Fine Arts.
He has studied extensively
abroad, traveling to Spain
four times in the past three
years. Before going to SMU,
he was with the consulting
firm of Rothrock, Reynolds
and Reynolds, Inc., specialists
in management counsel to un-
iversities and other nonprofit
institutions.

 

Dr. WILLIAM B. JORDAN in the Virginia Meadows Museum.

35

 

 

 

Cover Story

The Feb. 26, 1968, issue of
Modern Medicine, a journal
of diagnosis and treatment,
carried on its cover a picture
of Dr. A. McGehee Harvey,
‘30. On the inside a two-page
story on him and his work
began this way: “Dr. A. Mc-
Gehee Harvey's name, in
many minds, is synonymous
with The Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity. And it is also associat-
ed with a flow of ideas which
have had careers of their

own.

Dr. Harvey's ties to Johns
Hopkins as student, research-
er, teacher, and administrator
span four decades. Now 56, he
was born in Little Rock, Ark.,
and was graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1930
and received his M.D. degree
at Johns Hopkins in 1934. He
returned there in 1946 as
chairman of the Department
of Medicine at the University
and physician-in-chief at The
Johns Hopkins Hospital. In
1949, Washington and Lee
bestowed on him an honorary
Doctor of Science degree.

The magazine pays particu-
lar tribute to Dr. Harvey's
interests in the problem: How
does man move? These in-
terests had their roots in his
student days, and the maga-
zine said: “Ultimately, his re-
search path led to a quantita-
tive technique for studying
neuromuscular function in
man. At the same time, it
opened the door to meaning-
ful studies of the pathogenesis
of certain diseases—myasthe-
nia gravis was one of his spec-
ial interests.

“His contributions in the
field of neuromuscular trans-
mission are recorded in 126
scientific papers, and a high

36

 

 

 

Dr. A. McGeHeEE HArvey talks with medical students.

proportion of his findings deal
with myasthenia gravis and
various forms of pharma-
cologic treatment. His early
interest in the problem of
systemic lupus erythematosus
led to the classic monograph
which he and his colleagues
published in 1954. His in-
terest in research has not
dimmed, although he is con-
centrating more these days on
autoimmune diseases.”

Dr. Harvey was a pioneer in
what has become known as
biomedical engineering. He
created a division of bio-
physics and biomedical engi-
neering at Johns Hopkins
shortly after his appointment
in 1946. Another idea—a pro-
gram in clinical pharmaco-
logy—was among the first in
the nation.

Dr. Harvey is directly con-
cerned today with the young
men and women who will be
providing medical care in the
world of tomorrow. He says:
‘In a medical center there is
so much going on, such a
complicated array to present
to the student, that the funda-
mentals necessary for proper

 

groundwork may get out of
perspective.

“But we've always tried to
create our medical teaching
program in a setting in which
there is excellence in patient
care. We want students to
learn the basic techniques of
effectively carrying out their
responsibilities to the patient
and to his problem. We also
want to stimulate the stu-
dent’s curiosity and intellect-
ual interest in developing his
own capabilities so that his
continuing education out in
practice will be a natural
activity.”

Oldest Alumnus

Washington and Lee’s old-
est known living alumnus
celebrated his 100th birthday
on May 15. He is the Rev.
John Scott Meredith of War-
renton, Va., a retired Epis-
copal minister who served
rural parishes in Eastern Vir-
ginia on horseback and who
attended the inauguration of
President Grover Cleveland.

A native of Stafford Coun-
ty, Va., he was one of 12
children, three of whom be-
came Episcopal ministers. At

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

the age of 17 he went to Rich-
mond and during the sum-
mers was employed to help
water down the city’s dirt
streets with barrels of water
drawn by horses and mules
on carts.

He entered Washington
and Lee in 1889 and complet-
ed his work in the School of
Belle Lettres in 1890. He was
a member of the Harry Lee
Boat Crew, football team, and
Sigma Nu. He then attended
the Virginia Theological
Seminary in Alexandria. He
was ordained into the priest-
hood in 1892 and over the
years served many churches
in Virginia and Kentucky. It
was in Paris, Ky., that he met
and married the church organ-
ist, Miss Sarah Louise Clarke.
He retired from the ministry
in 1937 and now lives in
Warrenton with his son-in-
law and daughter, Mr. and
Mrs. Fred G. Wayland. Mrs.
Meredith died in 1964. Mr.
Meredith is now a member
of Leeds Church at Marcham
and is its honorary rector.

In Old Chicago

At any significant gather-
ing of members of the legal
profession, it is not uncom-
mon to find Washington and
Lee University well represent-
ed. So it was at the Center
for Continuing Education at
the University of Chicago on
March 14, 1968. The occasion
was the American Assembly
on Law and the Changing
Society, sponsored jointly by
the American Bar Association
and the American Assembly,
a national, nonpartisan con-
ference organization at Co-
lumbia University.

Participating in the assem-
bly which discussed some of
the most perplexing questions
confronting the legal profes-

SUMMER 1968

 

sion and society today were
a large number of people with
Washington and Lee connec-
tions. Among the more than
100 active participants were
five alumni including the
President of the University
Robert E. R. Huntley, former
dean of the Law School, and
two trustees, Lewis F. Powell,
Jr. and Ross L. Malone, both
former presidents of the
American Bar _ Association.
The other alumni were R.
Gordon Gooch of Houston,
Texas, secretary of the Hous-
ton Legal Foundation, and
Sherwood W. Wise of Jack-
son, Miss., former president
of the Mississippi State Bar.
Also participating were
four men who have delivered
the Washington and _ Lee
School of Law’s John Ran-
dolph Tucker Lecture: Orison
S. Marden of New York, chair-
man of the Assembly, William
T. Gossett, of Detroit, presi-
dent of the American Bar
Association, John _ Ritchie,
dean of the School of Law of
Northwestern University, and
Whitney North Seymour,
former president of the
American Bar Association.

Doctor Gilliam

Dean Emeritus Frank J.
Gilliam was awarded an hon-
orary Doctor in Humane
Letters degree by the Virginia
Theological Seminary in
Alexandria on May 22. He
was cited for his service as an
educator, missionary to the
Belgian Congo, administrator,
church lay leader, and former
trustee of Virginia Theologi-
cal Seminary.

The citation called him a
“man for all seasons’ and
added: “As Dean of Men and
Admissions at Washington
and Lee for 33 years, you
guided and counselled hun-

 

dreds of young Americans be-
fore they entered careers in
every dimension of the na-
tional life. More than 100 of
these have come into the
Christian ministry, 35 of them
through this seminary.”

Dean Gilliam joined the
Washington and Lee faculty
in 1926 as an assistant pro-
fessor of English. He became
Dean of Students in 1931 and
in that post handled admis-
sions for many years. In 1962,
he became full-time Dean of
Admissions. He retired in
1963 but has continued to
serve the University as an ad-
missions consultant and ad-
viser to the President.

He was graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1917.
He served in Europe in World
War I, taught for a year at
Augusta Military Academy,
and from 1920 to 1926 was
director of education for the
American Presbyterian Congo
Mission. For many years he
has been a member of the
Vestry of the R. E. Lee Me-
morial Episcopal Church in
Lexington. He is now a trus-
tee emeritus of Virginia
Theological Seminary.

 

DEAN FRANK J. GILLIAM

37

 

 

 

Class
Notes

 

 

 

1917

E. L. (Nep) Hix retired some years ago
from Union Carbide, but he continues
active as manager of the Oregon Humane
Society in Portland where he makes his
home.

1921

Retired after 41 years of school work, J.
Hocre TyLer SUTHERLAND spends a great
deal of time on community affairs. His
main hobby at present is the Wash-
ington County Bicentennial, Abingdon,
Va.

1923

Junius W. C. WRIGHT, JR., is a past pres-
ident of the Baton Rouge Kiwanis Club,
the Chamber of Commerce, the Traffic
Club of Baton Rouge, the Louisiana Mo-
tor Transport Association, and the Na-
tional Furniture Warehousemen’s Asso-
ciation. He is chairman of the Board of
Globe Storage Co., Inc., of Baton Rouge.

1924

H. C. DEARBORN is retired after serving
eight years as mayor of Mason City, Ill.
He now spends his winters in Palm
Springs, Cal., and is a member of an
antique automobile club and has a
1932 Rolls-Royce classic.

1925

Dr. FILLMORE NoRFLEET, a teacher at
Woodberry Forest School since 1934, will
retire this summer and will live in
Charlottesville where Mrs. Norfleet is a
teacher at St. Anne’s School. Dr. Nor-
fleet received a diploma along with the
graduates from Woodberry Forest this
year and was made an honorary member
of the class of 1968. In addition to his

38

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE CHAIR

= THE WASHINGTON AND LEE CHAIR makes a perfect gift
for Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings.
It also makes a beautiful addition to any room in
your home. It is made of birch and rock maple, hand-
rubbed in black and gold trim, with arms finished in
cherry. The crest is in five colors. All profit from sales
of the chair goes to the scholastic fund in memory of
John Graham, ’14. Mail your order to Washington
and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. The
price is $35.00 f.0.b. Gardner, Mass.

A. B. and LL.B. degrees from Washing-
ton and Lee, Dr. Norfleet holds an M.A.
Degree and Ph.D. Degree from the Uni-
versity of Virginia. He is a member of
the Phi Beta Kappa national honor so-
ciety and has been a contributor to
“The Virginia Magazine of History and
Biography” and to the “Dictionary of
American Biography.”

Rev. Bruce F. GANNAwAy is_ beginning
his fourth year as minister of the First
Methodist Church of Ocala, Fla.

ALLEN RusuHToN, president of the Rush-
ton Equipment Corp. and Birmingham
(Ala.) Ice and Cold Storage Co., was elect-
ed to honorary membership in Phi Beta
Kappa at Birmingham-Southern College
in April. Rushton was honored for his
outstanding contribution to the City of
Birmingham and to the College through
Rushton Lectures which bring to the
campus speakers on literary, scientific,
and educational subjects. A registered
professional engineer in Alabama, Rush-
ton is a director of the First National
Bank of Birmingham and the Alabama
Gas Corp. He is a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa and is a trustee of South-
western College. Rushton has served as
president of the Alabama Foundation
for Hearing and Speech and the Birming-
ham Rotary Club. He was a director of
the National Association of Manufac-
turers and a director of the Junior
Achievement Program.

1926

After nearly 40 years service with the
United States Fidelity and Guaranty
Company of Baltimore, JoHN D. MAYHEW
retired in May, 1968. He stayed retired
approximately three days and then be-
came manager-secretary-treasurer for the
Green Mount Cemetery in Baltimore, Md.

Dr. Joun R. VAN Buren practices medi-
cine in Benicia, Cal. For the sixth year
he is a school board trustee and a trus-
tee of the Congregational Church. His
wife recently opened a florist shop. The
Van Burens have two sons and two
step-sons.

1929

Asa Moore JANNEY of Lincoln, Va., is
the new president of the Farmers and
Merchants National Bank in Hamilton,
Va. He has been a long-time director of
the bank and vice-president for the last
two years. Mr. Janney is postmaster at
Lincoln, operates a general merchandise
store, and owns and operates a farm
near Lincoln.

The South Central Bell Telephone Co.,
a subsidiary of AT&T, has elected ALLEN
MorcAn of Memphis a director. Mr. Mor-
gan began his career with the First Na-
tional Bank of Memphis in 1929 and
became president in 1960. He serves on
the boards of a number of foundations
and educational institutions and projects
and is vice-president of Happy Feed
Mills, Inc., and a director of the Mem-
phis Branch of the Federal Reserve
Bank, the Holiday Inns of America, and
the Continental Bank Co.

1930

Leaders in commerce and industry met
in New York City May 22 to launch the
third annual appeal of the National
Multiple Sclerosis Society. Speakers for
the occasion will include L. PALMER
Brown, president of L. P. Brown Com-
pany of Memphis, Tenn. A former vice
president of the national organization,
Mr. Brown referred to the challenge to
the business community for continuing
research on multiple sclerosis,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1932

C. EDMONDs ALLEN is with United Press
International and makes his home in
New York City.

Joun C. Harris is currently a vice-presi-
dent and member of the Executive Com-
mittee of United States Wholesale Gro-
cers Association.

1933

The resignation of PRrsipENT F. EDWARD
LuNpD was accepted ‘“‘with regrets” by the
board of trustees of Kenyon College in
Gambier, Ohio. Mr. Lund had_ served
Kenyon for the past eleven years and
has made an outstanding record. Under
Mr. Lund’s administration Kenyon ex-
perienced a large academic growth in-
cluding the introduction of major pro-
grams of study and expansion of de-
partments of art, music and undergrad-
uate religion and the establishment of
the public affairs conference center.
During his tenure at Kenyon the en-
rollment increased from 511 to more
than 800 and the number of faculty
increased by one-third. President Lund
has been instrumental in a large finan-
cial program for Kenyon. After making
the announcement of his resignation, the
faculty and administration gave Mr.
Lund a standing ovation. He expressed
the desire to return to the field of teach-
ing following twenty years as a college
administrator both as dean and president.
Mr. Lund’s field is British Empfre,
Medieval and Modern European History.

1935

The president of Young & Rubicam, the
world’s third largest advertising agency,
Epwarp L. Bonp, JR., has been named
chairman of the Board. He retains the
title of Chief Executive Officer which he

SUMMER 1968

 

F. Epwarp LUND, °33

has held since 1965. Bond joined Young
& Rubicam as an account executive in
1946, shortly after his discharge from
the Army. He holds many positions in
advertising, business, and public service
organizations, including the  vice-chair-
manship of the American Association of
Advertising Agencies.

Dr. WILLIAM SCHUHLE, JR., expects to re-
join the faculty of Manchester College,
N. Manchester, Ind., in September, 1968.
He has been living in Washington, D. C.,
where he served as Director of Inter-
national Affairs, American Baptist Con-
vention.

1936

Dr. ALFRED KAHN, a practicing physician
in Little Rock, Ark., since 1948, has
been elected to the Board of Directors
of the Union National Bank of Little
Rock.

Rosert S. BuRNETT is the new treasurer
of the Board of Kentucky Baptist Hos-
pital of Louisville. Mr. Burnett is  sec-
retary of W. E. Caldwell Co., manufac-
turers of wood and steel tanks and tow-
ers. He is past-president of the Purchas-
ing Agents Association of Louisville and
is currently on the building committee
of the $2-million Eye Research Institute
to be given to the University of Louis-
ville upon completion.

1937

Dr. Epwarp E. FERGUSON is a_ genito
urinary surgeon in Washington, D. C. A
former president of the Mid-Atlantic
Section of the American Urological As-
sociation, he is now on the executive com-
mittee of the American Urological As-
sociation.

Joun M. McCarpett graduated May 10
from the 53rd session of the Advanced
Management Program of the Harvard
University Graduate School of Business

Administration. The session began Feb-
ruary 12. The class was composed of 161
men, including executives from 136 com-
panies in the United States and abroad,
15 military officers, and several from
other government agencies. Designed to
provide mature executives with an over-
view of business administration and pre-
pare them for broad responsibilities of
core management, the 13-week program
was started in 1943, pioneering a develop-
ment that is now world-wide in scope.

Lr. Gen. ARCHIBALD A. SprOUL, the last
commander of the famed ggth “Blue and
Gray” Infantry Division, received the
Legion of Merit in June in ceremonies
marking his retirement from the Vir-
ginia National Guard after 28 years of
service. The retiring officer also received
his third star promoting him from major
general to lieutenant general in the
National Guard. More than 3,000 Mary-
land and Virginia National Guard troops
passed in review during the ceremonies.
Gen. Sproul entered the 29th as a private
in 1940 and served with distinction dur-
ing World War II. During D-Day land-
ings at Normandy Gen, Sproul was se-
verely wounded and received the Bronze
Star for heroism. He assumed command
of the division in 1964.

In April Kenr Forster returned from the
Middle East where he held a guest pro-
fessorship at American University of
Beirut for the year 1967-68.

1939

Dr. EnGar F. SHANNON, President of the
University of Virginia, delivered the
commencement address at Centre College,
Danville, Ky., in June and received the
honorary degree of doctor of laws at
the Centre exercises.

Dr. Joun T. Fey, president of National
Life Insurance Company of Vermont, re-

ceived the 1968 Distinguished Citizen

39

 

LATHAM L. THIGPEN, ‘41

Award of Champlain College at the insti-
tution’s commencement on June 2. Dr.
Fey headed the University of Vermont
from 1958 to 1964, when he became pres-
ident of the University of Wyoming. He
assumed the presidency of National Life
Insurance Company in July, 1966.

After a twenty-year pastorate at the
Blacksburg, Va., Presbyterian Church,
ELuison A. SmytTH is retiring and will,
in his own words, “trailer around the
country” for the next year.

ANprEW M. Eastwick has retired from
Eastman Dillon, Union Securities & Co.,
New York City, to devote to other
activities of interest, travel, and hobbies.

1940

Epwarp G. Rorr is principal of the
San Diego School District. He is also
commander of the Mission Bay Power
Squadron.

1941

Announcement was made by Courts and
Company of Memphis, Tenn. members
of the New York Stock Exchange and
other leading exchanges, that WILLIAM
B. MorcAn has joined the firm as a
registered representative, specializing in
corporate development. Bill will hold the
position of assistant manager of the firm
in Memphis. He recently retired as a
commander in the U.S. Naval Reserves
after having recorded 23 years of service.

West Virginia Pulp and Paper Company
has announced that LATHAM L. THIGPEN,
formerly their Baltimore District Sales
Manager, has been promoted to the
newly-created position of General Man-
ager of the Baltimore plant of the Hinde
and Dauch Division. In his new position
Thigpen will be responsible for all aspects
of the plant’s operation, including manu-
facturing, sales, and administration. The
H&D Division is one of the nation’s lead-
ing producers of shipping containers and
corrugated products. Thigpen joined H&D
in 1946 as a member of its Richmond
sales force. In December, 1964, he was
made assistant District Sales Manager of

40

 

WARREN M. STUART, "43

the Richmond region and the following
September was transferred to Baltimore
as District Sales Manager.

Henry T. Crocker, JR. is a_ civilian
employee in the Department of Army,
Aberdeen Proving Ground (Md.), holding
the position of information officer.

1943

THe Rev. CHARLEs T. SARDESON of Car-
lisle, Pa. has been named Hartford reg-
ional director of the National Conference
of Christians and Jews. He will direct
the human relations activities in Con-
necticut and Western Massachusetts. Mr.
Sardeson is author of two books: “Re-
discovering the Words of Faith” and
“A Faith for Complicated Lives.”

In May the directors of the Belden
Corporation elected WARREN M. STUART!
vice president-marketing and sales. Pre-
viously he had been vice-president-sales.

DoaLp E. GARRETSON has been named
to the Board of Trustees of Macalester
College in St. Paul, Minn.

1944

Joun L. Barrett, secretary and treasurer
of the Buffums’ Co., has been elected
president of the Long Beach, Cal., Cham-
ber of Commerce. He has been campaign
chairman, member of the board of di-
rectors, and chairman of a county-wide
general agency operations committee for
Long Beach. He has also served on the
board of directors for the Better Business
Bureau of Long Beach, active in the
National Conference of Christians and
Jews, and a board member and treasurer
of the Long Beach Kiwanis Club.

WALLACE E. CLAYTON has been elected
vice-president of the J. Walter Thompson
Co. Following six years on the Wash-
ington Evening Star, he began his ad-
vertising career in 1951, serving in Wash-
ington, D.C., Detroit, and then in New
York. He is account supervisor on the
Bowling Products Division of American
Machine and Foundry and_ for the
United States Playing Card Co. Addition-
ally, he works on corporate public re-
lations, long-range and administrative

departmental planning for J. Walter

‘Thompson.

At HELDMAN is in industrial chemical
sales division for Texo Corp. in Southern
Ohio and Kentucky.

1945

RicHArD L. Corpin is vice-president of
the Penn Traffic Company and makes his
home in Johnstown, Pa.

1946

In addition to being the assistant chief
of the copy desk at the Los Angeles
Times, Freperick S. Hovey is teaching
classes at San Fernando State College and
at the Art Center College of Design.

Ropert JAMes SMitH has formed a new
law firm under the name of Smith, Nor-
wood & Shepherd in Richmond, Va.

1947

EUGENE B. WriGut, JR., lives in Lawrence-
burg, Tenn. He is a field chemical engi-
neer, Fertilizer Marketing and Distribu-
tion Staff, Tennesse Valley Authority.

WiLLArp H. Hart of Fort Wayne, Ind.,
is director of Public Relations and Pub-
lications for the North American Van
Lines.

1948

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. REGINALD H.
Petrus, a son, Thomas Richardson Ran-
dolph, born in August, 1967. The young
man joins three older sisters and the
family lives in Keysville, Va., where
Reginald is practicing law.

Anprew H. McCurcHeon won a _ victory
to become the Democratic Congressional
nominee in Virginia’s 8th District. The
j1-year-old former Richmond newspaper-
man lives in Fairfax County. McCutcheon
resigned as Congressional liaison agent
with the Office of Economic Opportunity
to seek the nomination. Before joining
OEA he was an aide to grd_ District
Congressmen J. Vaughan Gary and David
E. Satterfield, II.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

ROBERT VAN BUREN, ‘50

RICHARD W. Lowery is now associated
with the law firm of Shapiro and Small in
Chicago.

1949

EmMmetr G. Lesiir, JR., is backfield coach
and instructor in physical education at
Washington and Lee.

RicHARD H. TuRRELL, newly named mem-
ber of the Alumni Board of Directors,
has been elected senior vice-president of
Fiduciary Trust Co. of New York. Joining
the trust company in 1961, Turrell has
been vice-president and account man-
ager in Fiduciary Trust’s investment de-
partment since 1965. He was earlier as-
sociated with Auchincloss Parker and
Redpath.

After teaching in the high school in
Williamsburg, Va., CHARLES H. LAUCK,
Jr., has returned to Lexington, Va., to
live and is teaching in the Lexington
High School.

Joun H. REED, JR., was recently appointed
by the Department of the Army as Deputy
Commander of U.S. Army Reserve Troops
for the State of West Virginia in the

Army's reorganization of its Reserve
Forces.
Harry A. Berry, Jr., Charlotte, N.C,

attorney, has been elected president of
the Piedmont Better Business Bureau,
Inc. He had been associated with the
organization since 1957 as a member of
the board and as general counsel. He
received his law degree from Washington
and Lee in 1951 and has lived in Char-
lotte since then, except for duty with
the Naval Reserve from 1953 to 1956.
He is a partner in the law firm of
Berry and Bledoe. He is married to the
former Shirley A. Field of Charlotte; they
have three children.

1950

Recently JAmMrs T. TRUNDLE spoke to
a meeting of the Greater Philadelphia
Chapter of. the American Production and
Inventory Control Society. His talk was
entitled “Air Transportation and Inven-
tory Control.” Jim has been with United

SUMMER 1968

 

JosepnH E. KLING, ‘51

Air Lines for seventeen years, specializing
in air freight for the last five years.
He and his wife, Martha, have two
children.

Directors of the Louisville & Nashville
Railroad have promoted Puitip M. LANIER
to vice-president—law. Lanier, with the
railroad’s legal department since 1955, has
been assistant vice-president—law since
January 1 and was the railroad’s solicitor
general for eight years.

RicHARD E. Hopces was elected executive
vice-president of Liller, Neal, Battle and
Lindsey, advertising agency, the first part
of the year. He has also been elected
chairman of the board of governors of
the Southeastern Council of American
Association of Advertising Agencies and
is currently vice-president of the Atlanta
Community Chest.

Epwarp K. SHELMERDINE is currently sup-
ervisor of Systems Analysts for the Agri-
cultural Division of American Cyanamid
Co.

ROBERT VAN BUREN, senior vice-president
of Chemical Bank New York Trust Com-
pany, has been elected a director of
Champion Products, Inc., manufacturers
of casual sports wear for schools and
colleges. Van Buren joined Chemical Bank
in 1950 and served successively as as-
sistant secretary, assistant vice-president
and vice-president. He is a member of
the University Club of New York City
and is a director of the Y.M.C.A. in
Plainfield, N.J., and a trustee of the
United Family and Children Society in
Plainfield where the Van Burens make
their home.

WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS is vice-president of
Bratwursthaus Management Corp. with
headquarters in Towson, Md. The
corporation has the distributorship for
Bratwursthaus restaurants for a ten-state
area from New Jersey to Florida. The
restaurants are the authentic Bavarian-
cafe establishments. The corporation has
three locations in Maryland and _ six
locations in Northern Virginia. Four of
the Bratwursthaus restaurants are com-
pany-owned; the remainder are fran-
chised.

1951

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Ropsert C. CAREY,
a daughter, Merrill Anne, on March 25,
1968. The Careys live in Brooklyn, N.Y.,
and also have a son eleven years old and
a daughter six.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Guy B. HAMMOND,
a second son, Mitchell Love, on December
10, 1967, in Blacksburg, Va. Mr. Ham-
mond is professor of philosophy and
religion at V.P.I.

A. Stevens Mires has been elected a
senior vice-president of the First National
Bank of Louisville. Mr. Miles started with
the bank as a trainee in 1954 and became
branch manager in 1957 and an assistant
cashier in 1958. He became a vice-presi-
dent in 1963.

FRANK J. Prout is executive vice-presi-
dent of James B. Sipe & Co. of Pittsburgh,
Pa.

The appointment of Frepertc J. AHERN
as vice-president of the Canadian Inter-
national Power Company Limited has
been announced by the Board of Di-
rectors of Canadian International Power.
Mr. Ahern has been a Director of Canad-
ian International Power since 1962 and
has been a member of the Executive
Committee since May, 1966. He also
serves on the Board of Directors of
International Power, Monterey Railway,
Light and Power Company, The Barbados
Light and Power Co., Ltd., Hemisphere
Management Services Limited, Bow Val-
ley Industries Limited, and Fiveca, S.A.
Mr. Ahern will also continue in_ his
present position as vice-president of The
United Corporation.

Four appointments in the marketing
organization at Eastman Kodak Company
have been announced. One of the four
appointments is JosEPpH E. KLING, co-
ordinator of systems planning, market-
ing administrative services, who has been
appointed manager of marketing research
and analysis, radiography markets divi-
sion. Kling will report to the general
manager of the division. He joined the
Tennessee Eastman Company in 1959 as
a cost accountant and was named a senior

41

accountant in 1962. Kling then trans-
ferred to the comptroller department at
Kodak in Rochester as a financial analyst
in 1965; and was named coordinator of
systems planning in 1967. He is a mem-
ber of the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants.

MerRritr ABRASH is associate professor of
history at Rensselaer Polytechnic Insti-
tue in Troy, N.Y. He is the author of
a one-act play, Postscript, which has been
performed at four colleges and at the
1967 Yale Drama Festival. The play is
a comedy about survivors of the World
War III.

DoucLas B. SmitH and his wife and two
daughters live in Norfolk, Va., where he
is a partner with the law firm of White,
Ryan and Reynolds.

1952

The Travelers Insurance Co. now em-
ploys Don K. WILLIAMS as a computer
analyst, a new position for him. This is
one of the largest private data processing
centers in the world. He makes his home
in Portland, Conn.

In June EuGeENE M. ANDERSON, JR., Was
appointed by Southern Bell Telephone
Co. as their general attorney for the
State of South Carolina.

Kent Ricc and his wife and four
children are living in Wise, Va., where
he is in the grocery business.

Ropert E. Lee Barts is a stock broker
with Rauscher Pierce Securities Corp. He
and his wife and three children live in
Ft. Worth, Tex.

The mayor of Scranton, Pa. is JAMES J.
Wats. He is also a practicing attorney
at law.

Boyp LryBURN, JR., has been transferred
to Greensboro, N.C., with Sears Roebuck
Co., as a zone merchandise manager.

1953

Formerly with Celanese Corporation in
Louisville, Ky., JoHN D. HEARD is now
with Gilbarco Inc. in Greensboro, N.C.,

42

 

WILLIAM B. THOMPSON, ‘54

a subsidiary of Standard Oil Company
(New Jersey). Gilbarco is a manufacturer
of gasoline pumps, hydraulic lifts, service
station equipment, and industrial pump-
ing equipment. Heard joined Gilbarco
as assistant treasurer in July, 1967, and
has recently been promoted to Comp-
troller.

1954

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Jerry G. SOUTH,
a daughter, Marian Alexander, on Feb.
29, 1968, in San Francisco, Cal. Jerry was
formerly counsel, Legal Dept., Bank of
America N.T. & S.A., but was recently
appointed secretary and counsel (corpo-
rate secretary) for Bank of Ameri¢a N.T.
& S.A.

Reno S. Harp, III, Assistant Attorney
General for Virginia, has been elected
president of the National Association of
Extradition Officials.

Ropert E. BRADFORD, administrative as-
sistant to Rep. Poff of Virginia for
more than 10 years, has resigned to
become executive director of the Republi-
can party in Illinois, with the immediate
goal of the re-election of U.S. Sen.
Everett Dirksen. Ninety men were screen-
ed for this important post and Bob was
the unanimous choice. The appointment
was described as an effort to “profes-
sionalize” the Republican party in Illi-
nois. Dirksen called Bradford’s appoint-
ment “a very meaningful step” and U.S.
Sen. Charles Percy issued a _ statement
saying that “in Bob Bradford we found
a man of imagination and ability who
combines all of the attributes we are
seeking.”

Following graduation from W&L, STEPHEN
H. JOHNssON went to Georgetown Uni-
versity where he received his M.A. and
his Ph.D. degrees, the latter in 1959.
His field is international relations and
political science. In 1960 he held a post-
doctorate fellowship at the Hoover Insti-
tute on War, Revolution, and Peace
at Stanford University and continued
with the Hoover Institute through 1965.
Dr. Johnsson taught international rela-
tions for one year at San Francisco State
College and served as research consultant

 

PAUL M. MASLANSKY, °54

on the Russian Revolution project head-
ed by Dr. Stefan Possony. In his various
assignments, Dr. Johnsson has had occa-
sion to examine official archical records
in Europe, including Nazi archives. At
present, Dr. Johnsson is a research special-
ist with Pepperdine Research Institute at
Pepperdine College in Los Angeles.

Wuu1AM B. THompson has been elected
Vice-President of T. Rowe Price Growth
Stock Fund, Inc. The firm, T. Rowe
Price and Associates, Inc., is an invest-
ment research and counseling firm in
Baltimore, Md. Mr. Thompson joined
the firm in 1962 after serving as an in-
vestment officer for the American National
Bank and Trust Co. in Chattanooga,
Tenn.

PauL M. MASLANsKY, although he calls
Rome, Italy, his home base, is currently
in Moscow producing one of first major
motion pictures to be done in the Soviet
Union. The movie, The Red Tent, is
a story of polar exploration and entails
eight months of work in Moscow and
then three months of shooting at the
North Pole. Last year Maslansky was in
Israel during their brief war serving
with Tank spearhead in Syria, and he
intends writing a book on his experience.
Paul’s wife accompanies him on his movie-
making expeditions. They report the
people in the Soviet Union as_ very
friendly though completely uninformed
about America, the Soviet movie-makers
superb with excellent equipment and
technique, Moscow a dull city except
for Red Square, and Leningrad much
more beautiful.

1955

Recently JAMEs A. REEDER was elected
president of Holiday in Dixie, northern
Louisiana’s spring festival. He is also a
national director of the Young Lawyers’
Section of the American Bar Association.

Rosert N. FisHpurn is editorial writer
for the Roanoke (Va.) Times and_ is
serving on the Board of Trustees of
Roanoke College.

HARoLp D. St. JOHN, JR., is Vice-President
of Apperson Business Forms, Inc., Los
Angeles, Cal.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1956

MARRIED: WILLIAM FitzGeracp, III,
and Ruth Jarkett of Augusta, Ga., were
married Sept. 30, 1967, at the Reed
Memorial Presbyterian Church of Au-
gusta. Bill has been a stock broker with
Orvis Bros. Co. in the Washington, D.C.,
office since his discharge from the Army

in 1960.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. EMMETT R. KELLEy,
a third daughter, Katherine Britt, on
May 18, 1968, in Richmond, Va.

Dr. CHARLES E. Dosps is on active duty
with the Navy as a_ hematologist at
Portsmouth Naval Hospital.

James W. Marvin, Jr., is president of the
Junior Chamber of Commerce of Phila-
delphia and a director of Greater Phila-
delphia Chamber of Commerce. From
1957 to 1961, Mr. Marvin held a re-
sponsible, exciting and interesting posi-
tion as a special agent for the Army’s
Counterintelligence Corps in West Germ-
any. In 1963 he became associated with
Fidelity Mutual Life Insurance Co. in
Philadelphia, and this year he received
his Chartered Life Underwriters degree.
His great interest in Jaycee projects is
supplemented by activity as a director
on many community enterprises.

Dr. FRANK S. PirrMan, III, has been
appointed to the faculty of Emory Uni-
versity’s Medical School. He was named
assistant professor in the Department of
Psychiatry. Dr. Pittman is coordinator of
psychiatric services at Grady Hospital in
Atlanta. Before coming to Emory Uni-
versity he was assistant professor at the
University of Colorado Medical Center.

Capt. WILLIAM M. GREENE is the assistant
professor of military science at the Uni-
versity of Tennessee.

After receiving his degree in architecture
from M.I1.T., JoHN MiTcHeLt ELLis work-
ed six years in London investigating new
techniques in building, writing, teaching
architectural design, and carrying out
various low-cost housing projects. He has
recently returned with his wife and two
children to the States and will be with

SUMMER 1968

 

KENNETH SADLER, JR., ‘58

the firm of Geometrics, Inc., in Cam-
bridge, Mass.

KINGSWOOD SpROTT, JR., is practicing law
in Lakeland, Florida, and living in Lake
Wales. He and his wife have two boys
and a girl.

1957

Employed by the First National City
Bank of New York, CHARLEs F. DAvIs,
Jr., has been overseas for seven years
with tours of duty in Singapore, Kuala
Lumpur, Manila, Tokyo and Yokohama.
He is presently a manager of the First
National City Bank in Asaka, Japan.

Loren A. MINTz is the youngest president
and managing officer of a major savings
and loan association in the nation. He is
president of Shaker Savings Association
of Shaker Heights, Ohio, which has join-
ed the giant Ogden Corp. of New York
along with vther architectural and engi-
neering firms in an $80-million venture,
called Greenwood of Sagamore Hills.
Mintz is president of Greenwood, a
project entailing the creation of a unique
residential community for 3500 families.
It will be the largest planned community
in Northeastern Ohio since Shaker
Heights and the first major open-space
community. Loren Mintz is the new presi-
dent of the Heights Area Chamber of
Commerce, a member of the Shaker
Heights Master Plan Advisory Commit-
tee, and is active in the Jewish Welfare
Fund Appeal and the United Fund
Appeal.

Ross H. BaAyArp is professor of history
at Wofford College in Spartanburg, S.C.
At recent ceremonies the 1968 annual,
The Bohemian, was dedicated to Profes-
sor Bayard. Professor Bayard, a former
resident of Waynesburg, Pa., came to
Wofford in 1961. He is presently a
candidate for the Ph.D. degree. In 1966
he was named an honorary member of
Blue Key national service fraternity.

WILLIAM K. SCHMID, JR., is in the general
practice of law in Staunton, Va. In addi-
tion he is vice-president of Walters Whole-
sale, Inc., in Staunton and president of

Crosco Corp., a real estate investment
firm.

1958
BORN: Mr. and Mrs. IRA SAMELSON, JR.,
a son, Philip, on February g, 1968. The
family lives in Germantown, Tenn.

RANDOLPH W.  LUNsFoRD is _ teaching
socially deprived and culturally disad-
vantaged students in inner-city public
school in Grand Rapids, Mich. He is also
enrolled at the University of Michigan
in a master’s program in Afro-American
history and English literature.

WILLIAM R. GOODMAN, JR., is an assistant
professor at St. Andrews Presbyterian
College in Laurinburg, N. C. He is teach-
ing religion and Greek under the terms
of a Duke-UNC Cooperative Program in
the Humanities. This summer Professor
Goodman expects to return to Duke and
next fall will begin his final year of
graduate study as a research scholar in
the Cooperative Program.

The Reverend E. JAMeEs Lewis, former
assistant rector at St. Anne’s Episcopal
Church, Annapolis, Md., has accepted a
call to become rector of Trinity Episcopal
Church, Martinsburg, W. Va. During his
four years at St. Anne’s Mr. Lewis has
worked with Episcopal students at St.
John’s College and with midshipmen at
the United States Naval Academy, includ-
ing duty as assistant lacrosse coach at
the academy. He has been chairman of
the Companion Diocese Committee and
priest in charge of a summer diocesan
project to the Virgin Islands in 1962 and
1963. Mr. Lewis is active in civic and
community projects and is a member of
the Mayor’s Advisory Commission. He was
nominated for the 1968 Jaycees’ Outstand-
ing Young Man of the Year Award and
has been cited many times for his service
to youth and the community. He and
Mrs. Lewis have four children.

The Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Company of Milwaukee announces the
establishment of a general agency in New
Orleans, La., and the appointment of J.
KENNETH SADLER, JR., C.L.U., as its gen-
eral agent. A native of New Orleans,
Sadler joined Northwestern Mutual in

43

March, 1966, and later that year was
appointed district agent for the newly
opened New Orleans agency. In less than
two years the agency under the direction
of Sadler moved to 59th position among
Northwestern's 275 district agencies across
the country. Prior to joining Northwestern
Mutual, Sadler served three years as a
Navy lieutenant. He entered the life in-
surance business in 1961 at Gulfport,
Miss., and was an agent there for four
and one-half years before joining North-
western Mutual. Sadler qualified for mem-
bership in the Million Dollar Round
Table in 1965 and has received the Na-
tional Quality Award from the National
Association of Life Underwriters for each
of the past four years. He is on the
board of directors of the New Orleans
Association of Life Underwriters and is
editor of the association's field publica-
tion. Sadler is also a member of the
New Orleans Estate Planning Council,
the Top Twenty Club, the Chamber of
Commerce, YMCA, Jaycees and the Loui-
siana Association of Life Underwriters.

WiLt1AM A. Tow ter, III, after one year
with General Electric Company Interna-
tional division, joined the Wachovia
Bank and Trust Company in 1961. Bill
advanced through the various divisions
of the Bank and presently holds the
position of vice-president of Wachovia in
Charlotte, N.C. Bill takes an active part
in all community activities.

1959

Dr. Georce N. Lockie has just finished
two years in USAF as a pediatrician at
Kincheloe AFB, Mich. He now expects
to spend two years at the Mayo Clinic
studying arthritis of children.

The firm of T. Rowe Price and Associ-
ates, Inc., an investment research and
counseling firm in Baltimore, Md., has
announced that A. C. HUBBARD, JR., has
been elected assistant vice-president. Hub-
bard joined the firm in 1962 and has
concentrated on security analysis.

The Commercial National Bank of Little
Rock, Ark., has announced the election
of RicHARD C. BUTLER, JR., as assistant
trust officer. Prior to joining the Trust

44

 

A. C. HuBBArb, JR., "59

Department, Butler was associated with
the law firm of House, Holmes & Jewell.
His activities include membership in the
American, Arkansas, and Pulaski County
bar associations and the Central Arkansas
Estate Council.

1960

MARRIED: Hoye Cray Jones and Eli-
zabeth E. Burdick of Locust Valley, L.I.,
N.Y., were married on Dec. 9, 1967. The
groom is an assistant cashier in the over-
seas division of First National City Bank
of New York.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. J. Davis Reep, III,
twin sons, Robert Shaw and _ Philip
Anthony, on Feb. 23, 1968, in Virginia
Beach, Va., where Davis is an attorney.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HAyes GOWEN, a
daughter, Mary Morris, on Oct. 30, 1967.
Hayes is with the First National Bank in
Memphis.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs R. LoutTIT,
a son, James Frederick Robson, on No-
vember 12, 1967, in Englewood, N. J.
In June the family will move to St. Louis,
Mo., where Bob will work for the Home
Insurance Co.

The president of the Virginia Ready-
Mix Concrete Association is E. PETER
Lirron, Jr. He is also currently serving
as vice-president of the Atlas Concrete,
Inc. of Bristol, Va., and vice-president of
the Abingdon Concrete Co.

Jere Totton is presently practicing law
in Fort Walton Beach, Fla. He is with
Walter J. Smith and Arthur Wolff under
the partnership name of Smith and
Tolton. He and his wife, Norma, have
two children.

James N. Harpin, II, was recently pro-
moted to the rank of Captain in the U.S.
Army. After acting as class leader of
the field artillery officers basic course at
Fort Sill, Okla., Captain Hardin assumed
his present duties on the general staff
of the John F. Kennedy for Special War-
fare at Fort Bragg, N.C. Following Wash-
ington and Lee, Captain Hardin attend-
ed the Free University of Berlin in 1961.
He pursued his doctoral program in the

PeTerR JAMES Ler, ‘60

field of German at the University of
North Carolina where he received the
Ph.D. in 1967. Captain Hardin's present
position is commandant of the Special
Warfare Language School at Fort Bragg.

FRANK GLASER is an account executive
for Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith at the New York City Office.

THomas W. GILLIAM joined Eastman
Dillon, Union Securities and Company in
Washington, D. C., in December, 1967.
The firm is a member of the New York
Stock Exchange.

This fall Jon B. McLin will join the
American Universities Field Staff as an
associate and will be based in Brussels,
Belgium.

SaAnpy C. MARKS, JR., received his Ph.D.
in anatomy at Johns Hopkins University
in June. He will now be engaged in
research on bone at the Dental Division,
Naval Medical Research Institute, Bethes-
da, Md.

Curton D. MircHett is working for
Price Waterhouse & Co., in Washington,
D.C.

Ropert E. Cotietr has been named Vice-
president and Agency Director of the
Miller Insurance Group of Texas, which
is composed of three companies—The
Miller Mutual Fire Insurance Co., the
Miller Casualty Co., and the Miller Life
Insurance Co. of Texas.

PAUL RAy ROBERTSON is engaged in the
private practice of law in Houston, Tex.

Tue Rev. Peter JAMES LEE is assistant
minister at St. John’s Church, Lafayette
Square, the historic “Church of the Presi-
dents” across from the White House in
Washington. Peter was ordained to the
Episcopal priesthood on May 8, 1968,
in. the Washington Cathedral. Dean
Emeritus FRANK GILLIAM participated in
the service. After graduation from Vir-
ginia Seminary in 1967, Peter and _ his
wife moved to Jacksonville, Fla., for a
one-year tour as deacon-in-training on
the staff of St. John’s Cathedral there.
They moved to Washington in May, 1968,
and are living on Capitol Hill.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

W. DONALD RHINESMITH, ‘61

Still in the Navy, Dr. Ropert H. Spratt
is now senior medical officer aboard the
USS Saratoga, an aircraft carrier.

1961

MARRIED: Dwicut R. CHAMBERLAIN and
Marilyn Hutton Williams were married
April 13, 1968, in Richmond, Va. Dwight
is working toward his Ph.D. degree at
the Department of Zoology, University of
Maryland. Recently he has been at Cor-
nell’s Laboratory of Ornithology.

Tue Rev. Georce PARDINGTON, III, chap-
lain to Episcopal students at Southeast-
ern Louisiana College and curate at Grace
Memorial Church, is the recipient of one
of the fellowship awards for advanced
theological education granted by the
Episcopal Church Foundation. Mr. Pard-
ington received his theological degree from
General Theological Seminary in New
York City and has served n Hammond,
La., for the past two years. He has been
accepted by the Graduate Theological
Union in Berkeley, Cal., for the Ph.D.
program.

Epson B. Ops, formerly with Johnson
& Wemsatt, Inc., a building supply firm
in Springfield, Va., has joined Electronic
Data Systems in Washington, D.C., as
a systems engineer.

FLEMING KeeFe, formerly in the sales de-
partment of the Humble Oil Co., in
Hampton, Va., is now with The Charter
Co., in Jacksonville, Fla.

W. DonaALp RHINESMITH has been elected
president of the University Center in
Virginia, Inc. He assumed his duties July
1, succeeding the late Col. Herbert W.
K. Fitzroy. Mr. Rhinesmith had been as-
sistant to the president since joining the
Center three years ago. He is responsible
for coordinating and administering the
cooperative programs for the 27 colleges
and universities, including Washington
and Lee, which make up the Center.
He graduated cum laude from Washing-
ton and Lee and received the M.A. degree
in history from the University of Vir-
ginia. A member of ODK, he was a
Robert E. Lee Research Scholar at Wash-

SUMMER 1968

 

WILLIAM T. WHEELER, III, ‘62

ington and Lee and was a Virginia
Mason Davidge Scholar and a Thomas
Jefferson Memorial Fellow at the Uni-
versity of Virginia. He is the author of
several scholarly works and is a member
of the adjunct faculty at Richmond Pro-
fessional Institute. A resident of Hanover
County in Virginia, he is married to the
former Grace Warren Rowell Phelps of
Williamsburg. They have one daughter.

1962

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. STANLEY A. WAL-
TON, a second daughter, Anne Ford, on
May 11, 1968, in Oak Park, Ill., where
Sandy is an attorney.

THOMAS B. SHERWOOD is manager of a
grain elevator and custom feed mill for
Cargill Inc., in Rocky Mount,, N.C.

GERALD L. OUELLETTE has been named as
assistant counsel in the Law Department
of Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance
Co., specializing in taxation and business
insurance problems. Ouellette formerly
served with the staff of the joint com-
mittee on Internal Revenue Taxation of
the U. S. Congress and as a law clerk
with the U.S. Court of Claims in Wash-
ington. He has been admitted to practice
before the U.S. District Court and the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia.

BARTON MITCHELL is operating an asphalt
paving firm in Ruxton, Md. He and
his wife, the former Harriette Day, have
two sons.

Caterpillar Tractor Co. recently an-
nounced the appointment of WILLIAM T.
WHEELER, III, as district sales repre-
sentative, central division, Machine Sales,
U. S. Commercial Division. Bill will serve
the dealers in Green Bay, Wisc.; Madison,
Wisc. and Elmhurst, Ill. He joined Cat-
erpillar in 1965 after completing three
years in the United States Marine Corps.
Upon completion of his training in 1965
Bill assumed the duties of Market De-
velopment Engineer in Caterpillar’s Mar-
ket Development Division. In 1966, he
was transferred to his present position of
special representative in Dealer Train-

ing. He and his wife, Nancy will reside
in Madison, Wisc.

R. BRYAN MILLER has accepted a teach-
ing position at the University of Cali-
fornia at Davis. He will be an assistant
professor in the Chemistry department.

Since 1965 R. Roy Goopwin, III, has
been an account executive for Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith in Au-
gusta, Ga.

1963

MARRIED: Capt. FRANK E. BROWN, JR.,
and Gail Hart of Charleston, S.C., were
married Sept. 30, 1967. The groom is in
the USAF Judge Advocate Corps and
the couple will serve two years of duty
in Turkey.

MARRIED: Dr. Epwarp B. OstroFF and
Frankie Marshhwan of Clinton, N.C.
were married on June 29, 1968. In July
Ed began a residency in urology at the
Mayo Clinic.

MARRIED: CHARLES Brooks BecGc and
Mary Laird MclIlvain were married Nov.
25, 1967, in Bryn Mawr, Pa. The couple
are living in New York City.

During the summer, after receiving an
M.B.A. from the University of Virginia
Business School, H. MICHAEL WALKER
expects to join the firm of Kaufman &
Hall, real estate developers in Norfolk,
Va. He will work in all phases of real
estate development.

The Rev. Puititie B. ROULETTE’ was
ordained to the priesthood of the Epis-
copal ministry on May 27, 1968, at the
Church of the Redeemer in Baltimore,
Md.

Dr. THOMAS W. ZINN, after receiving his
medical degree in June, 1967, from the
University of Kansas, is now completing
his internship at the Good Samaritan
Hospital in Phoenix, Ariz. He is married
to the former Sylvia Ann George.

1964

MARRIED: Burton’ B. STANIAR and
Vicki Shepard Campbell of Ft. Lauder-

45

dale, Fla., were married on April 13,
1968, and are living in New York City.
LEE STANIAR, ’67, and JUDSON REIS, ’64,
were ushers at the wedding.

MARRIED: Ropert ELTON WyaAtr and
Brigitte Waldl were married on April 6,
1968, in Vienna, Austria. The groom is
president of Diversified Educational Sys-
tems, Inc. They are living in Berryville,
Va.

On June 1, 1968, DR. PETER S. TRacee
eraduated from the University of Vir-
ginia School of Dentistry. He has been
selected to participate as a rotating dental
intern with the U. S. Army at Fort
Sill, Okla.

SmITH HICKENLOOPER is trust administra-
tor with Lincoln Rochester Trust Co.
Skip and his wife, Myra, have a son and
the family lives in Rochester, N. Y.

JERE DAvirs CRAVENS was among 82
awarded the M.D. degree in June at
Washington University, St. Louis. He will
serve his internship at the Univeristy of
Colorado Medical Center, Denver. On
Senior Awards Night Jere was presented
the Mosby. Scholarship Book Award for
high scholastic standing and_ research
achievement.

Under the three-two program, FREDERICK
W. Boye, III, attended Rensselaer and
obtained his Bachelor of Civil Engineer-
ing in 1965 as well as his B.S. degree from
Washington and Lee. He is married to
Nancy Wilson and the couple now have
a one-year old son. Rick has spent two
years with the Army as instructor at
Engineering School, Ft. Belvoir. He ex-
pects his release from service in August,
1968, and to accept employment with
Shell Oil Company in New Orleans as
a mechanical engineer.

PENNINGTON H. Way, III, is field repre-
sentative for Aetna Life and Casualty Co.
in St. Louis. He is married to the former
Helen Frost who is a_ textile designer
for the Grove Co., makers of Therm-o-jac
sportswear.

Epwarp S. CrortT, III, is in his last year
of study at the Wharton Graduate School
and he has made the Directors’ Honor
List. This summer he is living in New
York City working for an investment
banking firm.

1965

BORN: Capt. and Mrs. JOHN GRIGGS, a
daughter, Mary Elizabeth, on April 17,
1968. The young lady joins an older
sister. Captain Griggs is with the Army at
Fort Lewis, Wash.

James W. DeYounc received his J.D. de-
gree from Northwestern Law School this
past June. He was elected president of
the Law School student body.

After 18 months with the Army in Korea
DAN FRIEDMAN, JR., Was released from

46

active duty last October and is now
working with IBM, Army Program, as
a systems engineer in Arlington, Va.

James M. Stay, JR., is employed in Rich
mond, Va., by the firm of Hammer,
Green, Siler of Washington, D.C., as an
economic ecological analyst in urban-

ology.
1966

Ens. J. B. THompson, JR., completed naval
aviation Officer Candidate School last
January and in June completed pre-
flight and basic Aviation Officer School.
He is now attached to Lowry AFB in
Denver for training as a Naval Air
Intelligence Officer.

WALTER WILLIAM STELLE is currently at
the College of William and Mary and
expects to receive his M. A. degree in
general psychology in June, 1968. He will
enter the University of Pittsburgh in
September to begin preparation towards
his Ph.D. depree.

THomas R. KELSEY is a Peace Corps
volunteer in Venezuela working for the
National Agrarian Reform Institute. He
expects to finish his work with the Corps
in September and enroll in law school.

Ens. CArty G. Kinc, Il, is on active

duty as communications officer aboard
the USS Intrepid (CVS-11).
1967

MARRIED: Lt. JAMES W. ORAM, Jr., and
Dita Watson were married Jan. 27, 1968.
The couple now reside in Laurel, Md.
Currently Lt. Oram is serving as a com-
pany exective officer in the sixth Armored
Cavalry Regiment at Ft. Meade, Md.

MARRIED: KENNETH MARK GREENE and
Sandra Lee Silverman were married July
go, 1967, in Danville, Va. Mr. Greene
is presently attending law school at the
University of Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Dovuctas C.
ARTHuR, a son, Douglas C., Jr., on April
6, 1968. The family now is stationed at
Ft. Benning, Ga.

Tuomas J. HowpeEn, III, is completing his
first year at Union Theological Seminary
in Richmond, Va. He is married to the
former Virginia F. Carter.

BRADFORD A. ROCHESTER is working as
staff reporter for the Winston-Salem
Journal. He is a charter member of the
Piedmont chapter of Sigma Delta Chi,
national journalism society. He is mar-
ried to the former Frances Sannella,
Hollins °67.

 

In Memoriam

 

1909

GrEoRGE L. BREMNER, a retired lawyer
living in Lakeland, Florida, died De-
cember 3, 1967. Mr. Bremner was _ for-
merly the chief title officer for the
Cuyahoga Abstract Title and Trust Com-
pany in Cleveland, Ohio.

1911

DoNALD THOMAS STANT, prominent at-
torney in Bristol, Va., died at his home
on April 12, 1968. Mr. Stant was a part-
ner in the law firm of Stant and Roberts
and was a former member of the House
of Delegates. He was instrumental in
forming the Bristol Bar Association.

1912

JoHN SAMUEL SHERERTZ, prominent at-
torney in Roanoke, Va. died May 7, 1968.
Since 1916 Mr. Sherertz has been en-
gaged in the general practice of law,
except for six years when he was with
a general contractor. He served Wash-
ington and Lee in many capacities and
was class agent for 1912 for several years.

1914

JAmMes M. FARRAR, JR., father of Direc-
tor of Admissions, James D. Farrar, died

June 4, 1968. Mr. Farrar was a textile
executive and a former associate with
E. S. Stern & Company of New York City.
Mr. Farrar was a veteran of World War
I.

Dr. Cart Day of Yazoo City, Miss., died
on February 14, 1968. Dr. Day began his
medical practice in Bentonia, Miss., and
then later at Lake City before going to
Yazoo City to make his home. He was the
founder of P&S Clinic, the Yazoo Clinic
and Hospital, and he formed the Carl
and Virginia Day Trust Fund for boys
and girls of Mississippi.

1916

ALBERT L. BENNETT, former superinten-
dent of Albermarle County public
schools, died April 21, 1968. After serv-
ing as superintendent of the Albemarle
schools from 1918 to 1937, Mr. Bennett
became superintendent of Alleghany
County Schools until 1945, when he joined
the Methodist orphanage in Richmond as
its superintendent. He had also served as
assistant professor of education at the
University of Virginia during the sum-
mer sessions.

1923

LLEWELLYN CHRISTIAN FRENCH died April
28, 1968, in Wilmington, N. C. Mr. French
was engaged in the electronic business

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

CHARLES RICE McDOWELL
1895-1968

The School of Law has lost through death this
year another distinguished professor: CHARLES
Rick McDowELt, Sr., on July 6 at the age of
72. His death came nearly four months after
Clayton Epes Williams, former law dean, died
in March at the age of 77.

Prof. McDowell and his family have been so
closely associated with the University that it is
hard to separate one from the other. Mr. Mc-
Dowell had been a member of the law faculty
for 41 years. His wife, Catherine, for many years
has been secretary of the School of Law. Their
two sons, Charles Jr. and John Feland, are gradu-
ates of Washington and Lee. Charles is Wash-
ington correspondent for the Richmond Times-
Dispatch, columnist, and author; and he has re-
turned to the campus frequently as a speaker.
John holds both a B.A. and LL.B. from the Un1-
versity.

Prof. McDowell was himself an author. His
humorous novel, The Iron Baby Angel, pub-
lished in 1954, was described by one critic as
“the funniest book of the year.” Prof. McDowell
began writing the novel in longhand on legal
pads on his way back from Navy service in the
Pacific during World War II.

He was a naval aviation pioneer. As an ensign
in World War I, he was among the first naval
aviators. He was a lieutenant commander in
World War II.

But his great devotion was to law teaching.
A native of Danville, Ky., he was graduated from
Centre College in 1915; he received the M.A.
from Columbia in 1921 and his law degree from
Yale in 1924. He practiced in Danville and later
in West Palm Beach, Fla., before joining the
Washington and Lee law faculty in 1927. He was
a vice president of the Virginia State Bar Associa-
tion and chairman for several years of its com-
mittee on the Uniform Commercial Code. In
1955 he was awarded an honorary degree by
Centre College, and in 1958 the Washington and
Lee Chapter of Phi Alpha Delta legal fraternity
awarded him a Certificate of Service for out-
standing contributions to the legal profession,
law schools and law students. On two occasions,
he was a visiting professor of law at the Uni-
versity of Virginia.

He was buried in Stonewall Jackson Memorial
Cemetery in Lexington, following a graveside
service.

 

 

most of his life and operated the French

Life Insurance Co., and was to have

 

tired some years ago and spent much

Radio Company until his retirement in
1963. He was a member of Grace Metho-
dist Church and formerly its chairman
of Board of Stewards.

HAROLD WARREN GLOVER, formerly with
the Norfolk & Southern Railroad Com-
pany in Washington, N. C., died October
11, 1967.

1924

LIONEL TRUE StTarpird died April 21,
1968, in Orlando, Fla. Mr. Starbird owned
several orange groves around Apopka
and maintained a flower garden until his
death. Before retiring Mr. Starbird was
owner and manager of Wekiwa Springs
Recreation Park.

L9z5

PHILIP FULLERTON HOWERTON, who in
1958 and 1959 was moderator of the Pres-
byterian Church in the U. S. (Southern),
the church’s highest honor for a layman,
died May 19, 1968, in a Charlotte, N. C.,
hospital. Mr. Howerton was general agent
in Charlotte of the Connecticut Mutual

SUMMER 1968

retired this June. He started the agency time in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. He was

in 1935. In 1916 he was chosen man of
the year by the North Carolina Asso-
ciation of Life Underwriters. Mr. Hower-
ton had served on various boards and
agencies of the Southern Presbyterian
Church and had been president of the
board of trustees of the Presbyterian
Foundation.

Dr. E. C. DANKMYER died March 5, 1968,
at the Andrew Kaul Memorial Hospital
in St. Marys, Fa, Oy. Dankmyer received
his M.D. from Jefferson Medical College
and also attended Cook Co. Medical Col-
lege, the University of Pennsylvania, and
Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. He has
served for the past 41 years as doctor
and was on the staff of the Andrew Kaul
Memorial Hospital as a radiologist. Dr.
Dankmyer was a member of the Elks,
Masons, American Medical Association,
and the American College of Radiology.

HERBERT MACMILLAN GOULD, former gen-
eral manager of Motors Holding Divi-
sion of General Motors Corporation,
died June 2, 1968. Mr. Gould had re-

awarded an honorary degree of Doctor
of Business Administration from Rio
Grande College in 1961 and a Doctor of
Laws Degree from Lycoming College in
1963. Mr. Gould served faithfully as class
agent for many years. He was prominent
in all professional and civic activities in
Birmingham, Mich., as well as Ft. Lauder-
dale, Fla.

1926

FRANK WHITNER MARTIN of Great Falls,
Va., died on July 1, 1967.

1927

RHEA WHITLEY, a former Washington,
D. C., lawyer who served in the 1930's
as the first special counsel for the House
Un-American Activities Committee, died
April 20, 1968, in Washington, D. C. A
former FBI agent, Mr. Whitley served in
the Navy from 1940 to 1946, holding
the rank of Commander. Since then he
had practiced law in Delray Beach, Fla.,
while maintaining his Washington home.

47

1928

JosePH B. Copper, vice-president-person-
nel of U.S. Steel Corporation, died May
23, 1968, at his home in Sewickley, Pa.
He was a native of Lexington, Va. Follow-
ing Washington and Lee, Mr. Copper
worked for Western Electric Division
of American Telephone and Telegraph
Co. and for Westinghouse X-Ray Corp.
before joining U. S. Steel in 1935 as an
industrial engineer in New York. He
served in Birmingham, Ala., and then
in U.S. Steel’s headquarters in Pittsburgh
where he became vice president-person-
nel in 1961. Mr. Copper had served sev-
eral years as his class agent.

Dr. FRANK PuHiLie COLEMAN, former chief
of staff at Richmond Memorial Hospital,
died May 20, 1968. Dr. Coleman was
eraduated from the Medical College of
Virginia and was trained in surgery at
the University of Michigan and in thorac-
ic surgery at Cleveland Hospital. He prac-
ticed general thoracic surgery in Colum-
bia, S. C., for several years prior to
serving in the Army Medical Corps.
While in the service he was chief of
thoracic surgery at a San Antonio, Tex.,
hospital and later was chief of surgery
at McGuire Veterans Hospital in Rich-
mond. Following his military service he
returned to Richmond where he became
associate professor of surgery at the Med-
ical College of Virginia. He was also on
the staffs of the Sheltering Arms and Re-
treat for the Sick hospitals.

1934

WILLIAM R. SCHILDKNECHT died on June
10, 1968, in Frederick, Md., where he
made his home. Mr. Schildknecht was
associated with the Western Maryland
Trust Co. and the People’s Liquidating
Corp. from the time of his graduation
from Washington and Lee until 1937
when he joined the M. J. Grove Lime Co.
as assistant treasurer and manager of
the accounting department. He became
comptroller of the company in 1955. In
1967 he was promoted to executive vice-
president and in 1968 was made president
of the Grove Division. Mr. Schildknecht
was a past member of the Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce and had just recently
completed a term as director of tne
Frederick County Chamber of Commerce.
He also served on Frederick city govern-
ment committees for accounts and fi-
nance.

JESsE CLIFTON LEIGH, JR., died May 21,
1968. After being affiliated with the Home
Owners Loan Corporation, Mr. Leigh
spent his business career as manager of
the Jesse Leigh Insurance Agency in
Hamlet, N. C. A member of the Marine
Corps in World War I, Mr. Leigh was
a member of the American Legion in
Hamlet, as well as_ the Chamber of
Commerce and the Rotary Club.

48

1936

Harry LEIGH ROBERTSON died in June,
1968, in Rustburg, Va. Following Wash-
ington and Lee Mr. Robertson was em-
ployed by the Virginia State Police and
was later a salesman for Wyatt-Cornick,
Inc., of Richmond. During World War
II he served in the office of Naval Intel-
ligence and on board the attack trans-
port, USS Starlight. He was a member
of the American Legion and was first
vice-commander of the American Legion
Chapter in Richmond.

1937

ROBERT MARSTELLER PEEK, JR., died May
29, 1968, in Little Rock, Ark., following
a long illness. Mr. Peek was associated
with a flower brokerage firm, Peek
Brothers of Little Rock. During World
War II he was a Captain and fighter
pilot with the 13th AAF Fighter Com-
mand and was presented with the Air
Medal and 3 Oak Leaf Clusters. He
was a prominent civic leader and a
devoted servant to Washington and Lee.

1954

Maj. Tuomas A. NALLE, JrR., died April
18, 1968, when his marine plane crashed
while on a routine practice flight at
Cherry Point, N. C. During his 15 years
of active service, Major Nalle served
with distinction as pilot of propeller and
jet aircraft and helicopters, as flight in-
structor, and in various staff assignments.
His duties took him to many Marine
Corps stations in the United States, Ha-
waii, and Japan. He also served in Viet-
nam as a jet bomber pilot where he was
awarded the Air Medal and the Vietnam
Service Medal with one star. His super-
ior officers had this to say in writing his
memorial: “An experienced, knowledge-
able and thoroughly professional aviator,
Major Nalle undertook all tasks with
energy and decisiveness and invariably
saw them through to a successful con-
clusion. He was respected by his super-
iors, subordinates and _ peers alike for
his military bearing and professional at-
titude. He was equally respected as a
man.” Major Nalle is survived by his
wife and three children.

 

Chapter Correspondents

Appalachian—William S. Todd, ’50, 1322
Watauga St., Kingsport, Tenn. 37660
Arkansas—Richard C. Butler, III, ’59, 36
River Ridge Rd., Little Rock, Ark. 72207
Atlanta—John H. Candler, Jr., ’58, 3000
Mornington Dr., N.W., Atlanta, Ga. 30327
Augusta-Rockingham—Raymond E. Freed,
’48, Drawer 788, Waynesboro, Va. 22980
Baltimore—John B. Howard, 757, 1306 Car-
rollton Ave., Ruxton, Md. 21204
Birmingham — John V. Coe, °25, 3421
Springhill Road, Birmingham, Ala. 35223
Charleston, West Virginia—William T. W.
Brotherton, Jr., ’47, 1020 Kanawha Val-
ley Building, Charleston, W. Va. 25301
Charlotte—James J. White III, ’51, 2924 St.
Andrews Lane, Charlotte, N.C. 28205
Chattanooga—Wesley G. Brown, ’51, Penn
Mutual Life Ins. Co., Lobby Maclellan
Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402
Chicago—William H. Hillier, ’38, 321 West
Lincoln Avenue, Wheaton, Ill. 60187
Cleveland—Peter M. Weimer, ’63, c/o The
W. F. Ryan Corp., 3940 Euclid Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115
Cumberland Valley—James L. Rimler, ’31,
20 N. Court Street, Frederick, Md. 21701
Danville—T. Ryland Dodson, ’46, 513 Ma-
sonic Building, Danville, Va. 24541
Florida West Coast—John R. Lawson, Jr.,
53, Knight, Jones, Whitaker, Exchange
National Bank Bldg., P. O. Box 1288,
Tampa, Fla, 33601
Gulf Stream—J. Alan Cross, Jr., ’51, 9700
Dominican Drive, Cutler Ridge, Miami,
Florida 33157
Houston—W. Temple Webber, Jr., ’54, Box
2529, Houston, Texas 77001
Jacksonville—Haywood M. Ball, ’61, 4337
DeMedici Ave., Jacksonville, Fla. 32210
Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, ’49, 814 West-
over Road, Kansas City, Mo. 64113
Louisville—John R. Farmer, ’61, 223 Hite
Avenue, Louisville, Ky. 40205
Lynchburg — Irving M, Lynn, "19, 33821
Peakland Place, Lynchburg, Va. 24503
Mid-South—Clinton M. Early, ’59, 4052
Goodlet Cove, Memphis, Tenn. 38111
Mobile—G. Sage Lyons, ’58, Lyons, Pipes
& Cook, 517 First National Bank Bldg.,
Mobile. Ala. 36602,
New Orleans—Dudley D. Flanders, ’56. 908
National Bank of Commerce Bldg., New
Orleans, La. 70112

If you move, get in

New River-Greenbrier—Thomas A. Myles,
16, Box 126, Fayetteville, W. Va. 25840
New York—Richard R. Warren, ’57, 135
Brewster Road, Scarsdale, N. Y. 10583
Norfolk—Dr. G. William Whitehurst, ’50,
7320 Glen Roie Ave., Norfolk, Va. 23505
North Texas—Maurice E. Purnell, Jr., ’61,
3600 Republic Tower, Dallas, Texas 75201
Northern California—John A. Williamson,
II, °58, 3147 Stevens Creek Blvd., Santa

Clara, Calif. 95050

Northern Louisiana—M, Alton Evans, Jr.,
53, P. O. Box 639, Shreveport, La. 71102

Palm Beach-Ft. Lauderdale — Hugh S.
Glickstein, °53, 2138 Hollywood Blvd.,
Hollywood, Fla, 33020

Peninsula—Daniel W. Wilkinson, Jr., ’38,
Box 257, Newport News, Va. 23607

Pensacola — Charles C. Sherrill, 60, 1730
North Barcelona St., Pensacola, Fla. 32501

Philadelphia—Roland C, Davies, Jr., '55,
303 S. American, Philadelnhia. Pa. 19106

Piedmont—William FE. Latture, °49, 4115
Redwine Drive, Greensboro, N. C. 27410

Pittsburgh—John E. Perry, ’38, 1330 Ter-
race Drive, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15228

Richmond—Robert J, Smith, °46, 303 De-
Soto Drive. Richmond, Va. 23229

Roanoke—William J. Lemon, ’57, 2201
Grandin Road, S. W., Roanoke, Va. 24015

San Antonio, Texas—Brentano C. Harnisch,
°39° 231 Burr Road, San Antonio, Texas
78209

St. Louis—Bruce E. Bussen, ’56, 5000 Bus-
sen Rd., St. Louis, Mo. 63129

Savannah River—Tudor Hall, ’60, c/o
Georgia Railroad Bank, 699 Broad S8t.,
Augusta, Ga. 30902

Southern Ohio—Stanley A. Hooker, Jr.,
°29 1185 Beverly Hills Drive, Cincinnati,
Ohio 45226

Tulsa—Dr. R. Chadwick Johnson, ’43, 1305
E. 27th Street, Tulsa, Okla. 74114

Upper Potomac—Thomas_N. Berry, 38,
—_ Oo St., Cumberland, Md.

Washington, D. C.—Donald W., Sigmund,
59, 261 Congressional Lane, Rockville,
Maryland 20852

West Texas—Robert G. Brown, '49, 402
First National Bank Bldg., Midland,
Texas 79701

Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, '52, 100
Cambridge Drive, Wilmington, Del. 19803

touch with your nearest

chapter correspondent for news of meetings.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A

GRANT
FOR Pras
THE
SCIENCES

 

HE NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION, under its Col-

lege Science Improvement Program, has given the
University a grant of $197,300 to be spent over a
period of three years. The funds will be used to
strengthen further the natural science Departments
of Biology, Chemistry, Geology, and Physics; the De-
partment of Mathematics; and the social science De-
partments of Political Science, Economics, Sociology,
and Psychology.

“The University is grateful to the National Science
Foundation for this substantial financial assistance,”
University President Huntley said. “This grant 1s
recognition of Washington and Lee’s determination
to maintain a program of excellence in the sciences.”

The money will be spent under four broad pro-
erams: faculty leaves-of-absence and other research
and scholarly activities; course and curricular studies
and innovations, including more visiting lecturers and
scholars-in-residence; additional undergraduate re-
search by students; and a post-doctoral fellowship pro-
gram in physics.

Outstanding scholars and educators in the sciences
will come to the campus for lectures, seminars, and
talks with students and faculty. Some of these visits
may be as long as a semester or a full year.

In economics, a recognized authority on non-West-
ern civilization will be invited to be in residence at
the University. In biology, a highly qualified ecologist
will teach and advise the faculty during a semester's
visit. In mathematics, a prominent scholar will deliver
a lecture series during one semester.

Several new and revised courses are planned, in-
cluding a new four-semester program of introduction
to college mathemtics. In geology, a summer intro-
ductory course will be established, and an extensive
field tour of the Appalachian mountains as far south
as Chattanooga, Tenn., will be conducted during
spring vacation. Other funds will be used to purchase
needed research equipment, library materials, and
audio-visual supplies.

Washington and Lee was one of 21 colleges in 14

states to share grants totaling $3.3 million in this latest
series of COSIP grants.

ASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY has received a

$60,000 matching grant from the Ford Founda-
tion under the foundation’s program to assist humani-
ties at four-year, liberal arts colleges. The University
will apply the funds to establish a program of leaves-
of-absence for professors in the humanities for study
and research—a program high on the University’s list
of priorities as recommended in the recent Self-Study.

Washington and Lee was one of 61 leading colleges
sharing in the $2.7-million Ford program. The Uni-
versity will match the $60,000 in Ford funds, to be
paid over a four-year period, and then assume full
financial responsibility for the program. Under the
program, beginning next September, three professors
will be granted leaves each semester (making six a
year) for study and research. The professors will con-
tinue to receive their University salary, and the new
funds will be used to secure replacements.

Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw and Dr. Marshall Jarrett
of the History Deparment have already made arrange-
ments to take leaves next year. Dr. Jarrett, during the
first semester, will continue research and writing on
a manuscript dealing with 18th century French in-
tellectual history. Dr. Crenshaw, during the second
semester, will do research for a book dealing in depth
with the background of the secessionist movement in
South Carolina in the 1850’s and 1860’s. Plans also
are being made to permit two professors in the De-

AND
THE
HUMANITIES

 

partment of Religion and two professors in the Depart-
ment of Fine Arts to take leaves next year.

President Huntley said the program “is of particu-
lar significance because it is directed at a need which
will be of critical importance in the future of the
liberal arts college. We are grateful that the Ford
Foundation has focused attention on faculty develop-
ment in the humanities, and of course we are pleased
that Washington and Lee was selected as a participant
in the program.”

(A $250,000 grant from the Alfred P. Sloan Founda-
tion last year provided for a program of leaves for
professors in the sciences at Washington and Lee.)

Of the 61 schools sharing the Ford funds, only
Dartmouth College and Haverford College received
greater amounts than Washington and Lee. Dart-
mouth received $85,000 and Haverford $80,000.

 

The

Inauguration
of
President
Huntley

 

 

« The Inauguration of Robert E. R. Huntley

as the twentieth president of Washington and

Lee University will take place on ‘Thursday and

Friday, Oct. 17 and 18, 1968.

= There will be a reception on the evening of
Oct. 17 at the President’s House and at Evans
Dining Hall.

=» The Inauguration Ceremonies will be held
at 11 a.m., Friday, Oct. 18, on the front lawn,
weather permitting.

# In the academic procession will be the Presi-
dent and the speaker; members of the Board of
Trustees; delegates and official representatives
of colleges, universities, learned societies, and
foundations; the faculty, members of the
Alumni Board of Directors and its past presi-
dents, and representatives of the student body.
=» There will be reserved seats for representa-
tives of the 46 alumni chapters, for class agents,
and for dignataries of the Commonwealth of
Virginia.
# An Inaugural Committee, appointed by Presi-
dent Huntley, is planning the program. It is
composed of the following:

Leon F. Sensabaugh, Chairman, Professor of
History

Sidney M. B. Coulling, Professor of English

J. Paxton Davis, Professor of Journalism and
Communications

Edwin C. Griffith, Professor of Economics

William M. Hinton, Professor of Psychology

‘Thomas C. Imeson, Assistant Professor of

Chemistry
James G. Leyburn, Professor of Sociology

Charles P. Light, Dean of the Law School
Frank A. Parsons, Director of Development
John E. Passavant, III, President of the Stu-
dent Body

William W. Pusey, III, Dean of the College
James H. Starling, Professor of Biology
Wuliam C. Washburn, Alumni Secretary
Romulus T. Weatherman, Director of Pub-

lications

James W. Whitehead, ‘Treasurer and Secre-

tary.

 

 

€Ole8s
Xl NIisny
Yd lI9 6IL¢€

LYVNLS ug

“NOLONIXG1

INNA TV

Laz

0SRIT EG VINTORELA

ANIZVOVW

V

J 1NYON IW

——

 

ee
a

SS St

1688 TI UNV
NOLONIHSVM

 

.

  

