 

 

 

 

 

 

AT OS

   

 

 

SPRING 1961

Annual Meeting
Be June 1

 

DO YOU REMEMBER—1907?

 

HESE INTERESTING SCENES from campus activities of
1907 were sent by Wesley P. Jackson, °11, of
‘Tampa, Florida. The top picture was of a long-forgot-
ten initiation. ‘The lower photo is of a pushball fight

between freshmen and sophomores. Mr. Jackson was
unable to attend the fiftieth reunion of his class, but
members who were in Lexington for the event en-
joyed looking at the old pictures he sent.

The
ASHINGTON
AND Lee ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Editor May, 1961
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1g fo . ;
Volume XXXVI

Managing Editor Number 2

TINA C. JEFFREY

THE COVER: Spring sports offer a gocd outlet
when collegiate sap begins to rise. This is a rough

 

THE WASHINGTON AND moment in the popular sport of lacrosse, a game
LEE ALUMNI, INC. with Loyola University.
President

 

PAuL M. SHUFORD, 1943

Vice-President

BERNARD LEVIN, 1942 CONTENTS
Secretary
WAM HERI WAP New $125,000 Gifts Received .  .  .  .  . 2
Treasurer
JAMES P: MARTIN, 1951 Dollars Into Bricks and Steel . 2... 8
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES : oe .

Universities and Athletics ©. . 2... 4
RODNEY M. Cook, 1946
BERNARD LEVIN, 1942 :
James B. ie on Many Teachers Win Study Grants . . . . .., 6

PAUL M. SHUFORD, 1943, President

PEYTON B. WINFREE, 1935, Ex Officio Commencement Schedule .  .  .  .  .. 2, 9
CLARK B. WINTER, 1937 . |

Dr. JOHN B. BATTLE, JR., 1934

WILLIAM B. WispoM, 1921 University News , ‘ . . , ; . . . 8

EDITORIAL BOARD Spring Sports Scores iS

FRANK J. GILLIAM, 1917

Eire ED pounnoy, 10?) Phi Beta Kappa Celebrates Anniversary .  . . . 16
PAXTON DAVIS / aR

JAmMEs W. WHITEHEAD
RopDNEY M. Cook, 1946 Class Notes ‘ ‘ . . ; . : ; . ; ; 14-27
W. C. WASHBURN, 1940 ,

In Memoriam . ae 27

 

Chapter Meetings .  . . 2... 8g

Published quarterly by Alumni, Ineor-
porsted. Washington and Lee University.
Lexington, Virginia.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the 1 1 1
Post Office st Lexington, Virginia. Sep- Annual Alumni Meeting 1S June 1 ° ° , ' . . 3

tember 15, 1924. Printed at the Journalism
Laboratory Press of Washington and Lee
University under the supervision of C.
Harold Lauck.

 

SPRING 1961 1

 

New Gifts Received To Promote
Scholarship and Faculty Aid

$125,000 FUND PROGRAMS CONNECTED WITH

NAMES OF THREE PROMINENT ALUMNI

HREE GENEROUS benefactors have
T given Washington and Lee
$125,000 this spring to foster the
University scholarship and faculty
aid programs.

James H. Clark, °31, a Dallas
businessman, made an initial gift
of $25,000 to be used to stimulate
excellence in teaching among facul-
ty members. The gift is the first
of four which he will make over a
four-year period.

In accordance with Mr. Clark’s
wishes, the University will use the
funds to increase salaries of “those
faculty members who possess dis-
tinguished records of teaching serv-
ice in Washington and Lee’s class-
rooms and laboratories.” The first
awards will be made for the 1961-62
school year.

Mr. Clark attended Washington
and Lee from 1927 to 1929. He is
chairman of the board of the Phila-
delphia Suburban Water Com-
pany and serves as an officer, direc-
tor or on the executive committees
of many national corporations, in-
cluding Diebold Incorporated, Mis-
sissippi Valley Barge Lines, and
Investors Diversified Services.

President Fred C. Cole declared,
“It is especially significant that Mr.
Clark recognized the vital need for
Washington and Lee and higher
education in general to provide
proper compensation for its teach-

ers. His generous support en-
ables Washington and Lee to make
further progress in its continuing
program for improving faculty sal-
aries. We are deeply indebted to
Mr. Clark, not only for the mone-
tary value of his gift, but for the
encouragement and incentive it
brings to our faculty.

“It is Mr. Clark’s wish that his
gift not only serve as a measure of
recognition for past service, but
that it help create added incentive
for Washington and Lee professors
to develop still further their tal-
ents and abilities as teachers of
undergraduates.”

* * *

A fund of $50,000, provided by
an anonymous donor, has_ been
established at Washington and Lee
to give scholarship assistance to
students preparing for medical
careers.

Proceeds from the gift will sup-
port a scholarship fund, to be
known as the “J. W. Warner, M.D.,
Scholarship Fund,’ honoring the
late Dr. John W. Warner, ‘03.

The awards will be given to up-
perclassmen majoring in pre-medi-
cal studies who possess “those ex-
ceptional qualifications, academic
and otherwise, needed to accept
the immense responsibility and
challenge of serving mankind
through medicine.” ‘The amount of

financial assistance will be in ac-
cord with an individual student’s
need.

The University expects to award
the first Warner scholarships at the
close of this semester.

“The importance of encouraging
promising young men to pursue
careers in medicine cannot be over-
emphasized,” President Cole said.

“Recently, there has been a de-
cline in the number and quality of
applications for admission to medi-
cal careers. This is due, in part, to
the extraordinary economic sacri-
fice required of men pursuing medi-
cal careers. Many of our best stu-
dents and potentially our best doc-
tors are, for reasons beyond their
control, deterred by this prospect
and turn to other fields. Material
encouragement should be given to
those young men who elect to pur-
sue this difficult road orf life.”’

Dr. Warner was a gynecologist,
and headed the obstetrical division
of Doctors’ Hospital in Washing-
ton at the time of his death in
1946. He attended the College of
Physicians and Surgeons in New
York, and was assistant gynecoloz-
ist at Roosevelt Hospital in New
York City, before going to Wash-
ington in 1920. He served in the
Army Medical Corps in France
during World War I, and received
the Verdun Medal. He was a mem-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

James H. CLark, ’31

ber of the American College of
Surgeons and was a Fellow of the
New York Academy of Medicine.

* * *

A bequest of $50,000 has been re-
ceived from the estate of the late
Mrs. Samuel Jordan Graham of
Washington, D.C., for  scholar-
ships.

Income from the bequest will es-
tablish the Judge and Mrs. Samuel
Jordan Graham Scholarships at
Washington and Lee for upper-
classmen with outstanding records
in political science, pre-medicine,
and law.

An additional sum of $3,500 was
bequested to the University by Mrs.
Graham to provide perpetual
maintenance of the grave of Wil-
liam Graham on the campus near
Lee chapel. William Graham, first
man to hold the title of president
of the institution, was an ancestor
of the late Judge Graham.

Mrs. Graham died December 5,
1959, and is buried in Lexington at
the Graham family plot. Judge
Graham was a member of the class
of 1876 at Washington and Lee.

SPRING 1961

TT. SOUNDS OF bulldozers, ham-

mers and saws are ringing out
once more at Washington and Lee,
as construction men begin work on
three separate projects on campus.

The largest of the three, a four-
story building for the department
of physics and biology, and modi-
fications to Howe Hall, will cost
$1,359,836. A four-story dormitory
to house ninety-one students, most
of them freshmen, will cost $326,-
545. A new steam boiler, and 1m-
provements to the existing heating
plant to take care of additional
buildings, will involve an expendi-
ture of $49,949.72.

Target date for completion of all
construction is August 1, 1962.

Including equipment, furnish-
ings, and fees, the three projects
will cost the University nearly
$2,000,000.

The science facilities are a direct
result of the two-year campaign
which sought funds from among
Washington and Lee’s alumni, par-
ents, and friends. Turning their
dollars into imposing brick struc-
tures for generations of scholars
is a feat in which all who donated
can take pride.

The new science building will re-
lieve generally crowded conditions
in Howe Hall, which now houses
chemistry, geology, and biology. It
will provide a new location for the
department of physics, now situat-
ed in Reid Hall, which is scheduled
for renovation in the future to ac-
commodate the department of jour-
nalism and communications.

Development Campaign Dollars

Are Turning Into Bricks, Steel

‘The new dormitory will be a
self-liquidating investment, and
will serve the primary purpose of
eliminating the use of several small
auxiliary dormitories for freshmen.
‘The building will complete a three-
unit housing center. two other
facilities, Newton D. Baker dormi-
tory for upperclassmen, and John
W. Davis dormitory for law  stu-
dents, were completed in 1959,
along with Evans Dining Hall. The
new dormitory will connect with
Davis Hall, forming a U-shaped
arrangement with the other units.
The old Preston house, once the
location of the University medical
office and lately a freshman dormi-
tory, is being razed to make room
for the modern building.

Of the University’s normal class
of 320 freshmen, only 277 can be
accommodated in the regular fresh-
man dormitory. The new building,
to be directly across Washington
street from the freshman dorm, will
rectify this condition.

Additions to the heating plant
will take care of the new science
building, and also will provide
adequate reserve capacity for im-
provement of the existing general
heating system. : :

Architect for all projects is the
Lynchburg firm of Clark, Nexsen,
and Owen. Contractors for the
work are: for the science building,
John P. Pettyjohn and Company
of Lynchburg; for the dormitory,
W. W. Coffey and Son of Lexing-
ton; and for the heating plant, the
Boiler and Brick Refractory Com-
pany of Richmond.

 

Universities and Athletics: An Address

ACADEMIC STANDARDS AND INTEGRITY
MUST BE MAINTAINED IN REGARD TO SPORTS

By FRED GC. COLE

President of Washington and Lee

Dr. Cole recently participated in a special
panel of the Sixteenth Annual National Confer-
ence on Higher Education in Chicago. Discus-
sions included the relationship of athletics to
college standards. A summation of Dr. Cole’s re-
marks is presented here.

ORMAL AND ORGANIZED athletic competition is an
Boo and venerable institution of western
civilization. The association of athletics with educa-
tional institutions is old and is characteristic of
British--American culture. Athletics therefore have a
legitimate place in American colleges and universities;
interest and participation in sports by students 1s
both normal and desirable.

An extracurricular athletic program is however
an adjunct, and not a primary essential, of an edu-
cational institution. Colleges, technological institutes,
and universities are the only agencies in our society
which can provide the higher academic and _profes-
sional instruction which the society requires. ‘They
have been established for this specific purpose. Suc-
cessful athletic programs are conducted by many
kinds of non-educational agencies. In other words,
education and schools must exist together; athletics
and schools can and often do exist separately. ‘The
objectives and standards of a university should there-
fore be determined by its educational mission; extra-
curricular interests should be governed in conform-
ance with these objectives and standards.

Furthermore, it should be obvious that the future
of the world depends upon the effectiveness with
which trained intelligence can be brought to bear
upon the major problems of man and his universe.
The adequacy of our education will be the deciding
factor. The results of games will signify nothing.

An intercollegiate athletic program should bene-
fit both the participants and the institutions which
they represent.

4

For individuals, the advantages and satisfactions
of athletic competition might include the develop-
ment of physique, character, and personality, and
emotional catharsis. The experience is represented as
instilling self-reliance, as fostering simultaneously the
desire to excel and the spirit of fair play, and as in-
culcating the ability to cooperate for mutual ends,
even at the sacrifice of immediate self-aggrandizement.

ATHLETICS ARE VALUABLE

If any of these claims are valid—and at least some
of them are in most cases—athletics make a valuable
contribution to the educational process. It follows,
then, that colleges and universities should provide op-
portunities for as many students as possible to take
part in organized sports. The number of participants
will vary, of course, from one school to another, as
will the number of intercollegiate sports. ‘There ap-
pears to be no necessary correlation between the
breadth of the program and the popular identifica-
tion of the school with emphasis on athletics, or with
the strength or type of competition which is normally
faced.

Expense of operation is obviously a major factor
in the maintenance of a high-participation program.
Normally, no more than two or three sports, and some-
times none besides football, pay their way through gate
receipts. Some institutions depend upon profits from
these sports to finance others to a great extent. Others
consider athletic costs a legitimate general or educa-
tional expense. Under the circumstances, only those
institutions with relatively great endowments or other
sources of large general income can conduct broad
programs of intercollegiate athletics.

Institutional benefits of intercollegiate athletics

-are usually conceived in vicarious or empathic terms.

Students and alumni identify themselves with the
team, exult in its success, despair in its defeat. Inter-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

est in the team provides a unifying bond among stu-
dents in different academic programs, and alumni in
diverse occupations living in many places. It also
serves as a continuing link between the alumni and
their alma mater. This association is wholesome as
long as it remains subordinate to and apart from edu-
cational considerations, which should always be the
chief source of student and alumni pride and affection.
There is no evident connection whatever between
touchdowns or goals and the quality of teaching in
academic classrooms.

SPECTATOR ACCOMMODATIONS

Many others besides students and alumni are in-
terested in college sports, and a college or university
should provide the spectator accommodations which
it reasonably can for persons genuinely interested in
its athletic teams and in those of its usual opponents.
It is not obligated to conduct entertainment or spec-
tacles with no educational value for the benefit of
the general public.

As the objective in any competition is to win or ex-
cel, it is recognized that value must be placed upon
victory. But if athletics are to continue as a whole-
some influence, victory should never be the overriding
consideration in college athletics. It is assumed that
words so often used by coaches and others interested
in sports (character-building, sportsmanship, team
spirit, and others of similar import) represent true
goals and not mere lip service. A winning athletic
team may be a source of great satisfaction; but it is
small compensation for loss of integrity by an indi-
vidual or an institution.

Not more than half the teams which play on a
given day can win. Where tie scores can occur, fewer
than half will gain victory. If victory is the only grati-
fication to be had, the total of disappointment will
always be greater than the total of satisfaction. It
would be foolish to support a system which is logic-
ally absurd and psychologically damaging. Sports
should provide a healthy catharsis of emotions and not
a pathological frustration.

Victory has, of course, an economic aspect. Win-
ning teams ordinarily draw more spectators than the
losing ones; and many institutions depend upon gate
receipts for most of their athletic income. But it must
be remembered that it serves no educational purpose
to play winning contests in order to attract crowds
large enough to finance winning contests. It is indeed
a vicious cycle when this occurs.

TIGHTEN ADMISSIONS

No admission policy should be designed to facili-
tate the enrollment of persons who wish to attend an

SPRING 1961

institution primarily for purposes other than educa-
tional. Admissions pressures will continue to increase.
Our civilization cannot afford to deny a superior edu-
cation to a superior person in order that a boy with
little or no scholastic ability may be allowed to play
games.

If the academic standards and integrity of an edu-
cational institution are to be maintained in regard
to athletics, the athletic policies and practices of the
institution must be subject to academic authority. The
faculty should have full authority for prescribing all
curricula, methods and criteria for instruction, and
rules of eligibility for participation in athletics. The
athletic director, or similar officer should be respon-
sible to a principal administrative officer of the in-
stitution, on the same basis as any other subordinate
administrative officer, and subject to the same policy
regarding appointment and removal. The budget of
the athletic department should be subject to the ap-
proval and audit of the chief fiscal officer of the in-
stitution. Any standing executive or advisory com-
mittee which functions in the field of athletics should
be appointed in the same way and by the same au-
thority as similar committees in other areas of admin-
istration, and its members should serve as individuals
rather than as representatives of any groups or in-
terests. No organization of students, alumni, or other
persons, within or without the institution, should have
any more to say about athletic policy and procedure
than it has in regard to academic policies, excluding,
of course, athletic conference organizations and the
National Collegiate Athletic Association.

EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES

At this point in history, it is imperative that the
most effective possible use be made of America’s educa-
tional resources. Any serious hindrance to this purpose
may be disastrous, and even minor obstacles are dan-
gerous. ‘The best instruction must be given to the best
students. Universities and colleges of high standards
should resist pressures upon themselves, and to help
other institutions to do so. Those seeking athletic pre-
eminence are often a small but highly vocal minority,
while those who favor educational excellence are fre-
quently a silent majority.

The proper relationship of intercollegiate sports to
the general framework of higher education is a prob-
lem, varying in its scope and intensity from one in-
stitution to another. But it is not a problem without
a solution or solutions. It is my hope that the prin-
ciples and beliefs that I have expounded rather dog-
matically here will prove helpful, if not in solving
problems, at least in stimulating thinking in what
I believe is the proper direction.

 

Many Washington and Lee Teachers

Win Study Grants and Fellowships

AWARDS WILL ASSIST WITH WORK
DURING SUMMER AND NEXT YEAR

CHOLARSHIP AMONG Washington
and Lee’s faculty members is
an accepted attribute.

But acknowledgement of that
talent is receiving an even greater
recognition this year. A_ large
number of fellowships and study
grants have been awarded to pro-
fessors for advanced study or re-
search projects which will further
their classroom instruction. Many
of these awards are to the Univer-
sity’s junior faculty members,
which is a healthy sign of progress.

These are some of the outstand-
ing awards for this summer or next
year:

Dr. Robert D. Whitaker, ’54, as-
sistant professor of chemistry, has
received a $4,518 grant from the
Research Corporation of New York
for a summer research project.

He will continue a study of
compounds between iodine-chlor-
ides and amines begun last year
under a Glenn grant. Assisting him
will be a senior, John R. Ambrose
of Roselle Park, New Jersey. About
half the grant will be used to pur-
chase equipment for the study,
which will begin July 1.

Charles B. Brockmann, an in-
structor in Romance languages, is
one of sixty-five college teachers
in America to be awarded a Dan-
forth Teacher Study Grant for next
year. He will study two semesters
and two summers at the University
of California in Berkeley. His

6

current field of research is the work
of the late Albert Camus, a con-
temporary French writer.

Robert E. R. Huntley, ‘50, asso-
ciate professor of law, was awarded
a $6,750 Fellowship in Law Teach-
ing by Harvard University, and
will attend that college in 1961-62.

Dr. William A. Jenks, ’39, profes-
sor of history, won a $6,000 grant
from the Social Research Council
for research in Austria next year.

Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard, assist-
ant professor of psychology, was
given a $2,300 research grant from
the National Institute of Health to
study the effects of irradiation on
behavior.

Eleven other professors will
share $4,419 in Glenn Grants from
the University for research and
study projects through 1961. They
are:

Dr. Jay D. Cook, ’43, associate
professor of accounting, for re-
search on national income account-
ing. | |

Dr. Sidney B. B. Coulling, ’46,
assistant professor of English, for
research in the Huntington Li-
brary in Pasadena, California, on
the influence of Jonathan Swift
upon Thomas Carlyle.

Dr. Cecil D. Eby, Jr., assistant
professor of English, for research
on certain American authors in the
Boston area in connection with
an advanced American literature
course which he will teach next
year.

Thomas E. Ennis, Jr., assistant
professor of accounting, for study
at several large public accounting
firms, including interviews and
observations concerning new de-
velopments in public accounting.

Dr. Fitzgerald Flournoy, ’21,
professor of English, for study of
Shakespeare and the Elizabethan
the University of Birmingham sum-
mer school.
summer school..

Dr. ‘Thomas P. Hughes, associate
professor of history, for work in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, on a
project begun last year, “An In-
ternational History of the Electri-
cal Industry, 1870-1914.”

Dr. James G. Leyburn, professor
of sociology, for study at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina and
Duke University on recent develop-
ments in sociological theory and
methods, and a study of the or-
ganization of the undergraduate
major in sociology at these schools.

Dr. Stanley T. Lowry, assistant
professor of economics, for a study
of land use history and potential
in the Rockbridge County area, in-
cluding an analysis of marketing
possibilities for timber and other
resources.

Wilfred J. Ritz, ’38, professor
of law, for preparation of a final
manuscript for a “Bibliography of
Virginia Legal History Prior to
1800.”

Robert Stewart, associate pro-
fessor.xof fine arts, to attend the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Bennington Composers’ Confer-
ence.

Dr. Charles W. Turner, profes-
sor of history, for research and
study in Western American history
at the University of California.

The Glenn Fund was established
in 1953, through a $120,000 gift
from the late philanthropist, John
M. Glenn, ’79, an official of the
Russell Sage Foundation.

Four professors have been award-
ed grants for summer study by the
Research Council of the University
Center of Virginia, Incorporated.

Dr. Paul C. Hayner, associate
professor of philosophy and relig-
ion, will continue research at the
Harvard University libraries on a
book he is preparing on the phil-
oso of religion.

Dr. Allen W. Moger, professor of
history, will work on a book, “Vir-
ginia in Transition, 1880-1914.”

Dr. Leon F. Sensabaugh, profes-
sor of history, will gather material
on United States-Brazilian relations
at the National Archives and the
State Department in Washington.

Dr. James S. Patty, associate pro-
fessor of Romance languages, will
spend a month in France, to finish

 

Dr. WILLIAM B. QUILLIAN, JR., president
of Randolph-Macon Woman’s College in
Lynchburg, will deliver the 1961 Bacca-
laureate address on June 1 in Lee Chapel.

SPRING 1961

research on Hippolyte Babou, a
contemporary of Baudelaire.

 

DR. EDWARD D. MYERS, head of the
department of Philosophy, will re-
sign from Washington and Lee
this summer to become cultural
attaché at the American Embassy
in London, He has been a member
of the faculty since 1949.

‘The new post will be the second
such assignment he has held since
1958, when he was granted two
years’ leave of absence to serve as
cultural attaché at the American
Embassy in Bonn, West Germany.

An energetic scholar, he is the
author of “Education in the Per-
spective of History,’ and collabo-

rated with British historian Arnold
J. Toynbee in a gazetteer volume
for use with Toynbee’s “A Study
of History.”

DR. EDWIN C. GRIFFITH Was ap-
pointed to the Lexington School
Board in January, filling an un-
expired term of two and one-half
years. He is professor of economics,
and serves also as president of
Stonewall Jackson Hospital. He is
a past president of the Community
Chest and of the Lexington Lions
club, and has been on the board of
the Chamber of Commerce. He is
a member of the town’s planning
commission and was formerly its
chairman.

 

TUESDAY, MAY 30

g:00 p.m.—Final Dance

WEDNESDAY, MAY 21

3:00 p.m.—Concert

THURSDAY, JUNE 1

WASHINGTON AND LEE
Commencement, 1961

10:00 a.m.—Meeting of the University Board of Trustees

8:00 p.m.—Alumni Board Meeting

g:o00 p.m.—Reception for friends of the University
President and Mrs. Fred Carrington Cole

11:00 a.m.—Baccalaureate Service
Sermon—Dr. WILLIAM F. QUILLIAN, JR.,
President, Randolph-Macon Woman’s College

Doremus Gymnasium

Doremus Gymnasium

Lee Chapel

 

12:30 noon—Alumni Luncheon
2:00 p.m.—Alumni Association, Annual Meeting Lee Chapel

g:00 p.m.—Reception honoring graduates and their families.
President and Mrs. Cole

FRIDAY, JUNE 2

g:00 a.m.—Commissioning Exercises

Lee Chapel
11:00 a.m.—Graduation Exercises
Remarks to Graduates
The President of the University

 

 

 

Spring dances, during the weekend of April 14-15, brought many students and dates
to Red Square to socialize on Saturday afternoon. And the advent of white duck pants
and bermudas was a sure sign that Spring had arrived.

University Vlews

H PRESIDENT FRED C. COLE received
an honorary degree of doctor of
laws from Union College at a spe-
cial Founder’s Day convocation in
Schenectady, New York, on Feb-
ruary 24, 1961. He was also one of
the two speakers for the occasion,
which marked the 166th anniver-
sary of the chartering of the col-
lege. The other speaker was Col-
gate W. Darden, former president
of the University of Virginia, who
discussed the future of the South.

Dr. Cole’s subject was the career
of Robert W. ‘Toombs, first secre-
tary of state of the Confederacy,
and an 1828 graduate of Union
College.

m@ DR. FRANCIS P. GAINES, chancellor
of the University, was a speaker on
February 5 at ceremonies in the
Washington Cathedral, commemor-
ating the one hundredth anniver-
sary of the Peace Convention,
called by Virginia in a futile at-
tempt to avoid the Civil War.

8

‘The Convention was held in the
old Willard Hotel, February 4-27,
1861, with 121 delegates represent-
ing 21 of the 94 states.

Dr. Gaines said, in part, “The
Peace Convention was right in its
undertaking. I have never under-
stood the scholars, perhaps carried
away by their own rhetoric, who
maintain that this war was needed
to make us truly united. War, with
its tidal waves of destruction and
slaughter and grief, is the answer
to no human problem, and it is an
insult to the intelligence that God
gave us that we cannot find other
answers. Thus we dream of peace.
The very postage symbol on our
letters asks that we pray for peace.
Possibly, and I speak reverently,
we must do more than pray. Peace,
it seems, it not to come while we
are drifting and dreaming even in
devotion. We must work for peace
and in its behalf deny ourselves.
We must seek to remove the causes
of war.”

IN AN HONORS convocation § ad-
dress at Mary Baldwin College in
February, Dean William W. Pusey,
III, said the current craze for gad-
gets, electronic brains, computers,
and teaching machines is a serious
threat to one of education’s most
important by-products, individu-
ality.

“I am not naive enough to de-
ny the usefulness of machines,” he
declared. “However, their proli-
feration makes me uneasy.”

In discussing by-products of a
liberal education, Dean Pusey cited
enjoyment of reading as a valuable
habit to be carried from college to
adult life.

Also among by-products he noted
were independent judgment, a ra-
tional approach to problems, in-
tellectual humility, a distrust of
total answers, tolerance, optimism,
humor and contemplativeness.

# THREE FACULTY members in the
department of chemistry will be
promoted effective September 1.
Dr. John H. Wise will be upped
from associate professor to profes-
sor. Dr. J. Keith Shillington and
Dr. William J. Watt, both assist-
ant professors, will become asso-
clate professors. Dr. Wise was a
chemist for the Manhattan Project
during World War II, and_ has
been at Washington and Lee since
1953. Dr. Shillington is active in
summer research work. Dr. Watt
has taught for three summers at the
institute for High School teachers
sponsored by the National Science
Foundation at Alabama College.

mw DR. ESMARCH S. GILREATH, head of
the chemistry department, will
serve as a member of the faculty
at a summer institute for college
chemistry professors at Oregon
State College, Corvallis, Oregon.
The institute is one of three
sponsored by the National Science
Foundation to increase _ college
teaching effectiveness in chemistry,
and runs from June 26 to August 5.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Dr. Gilreath will direct a course
in “Recent Developments in Or-
ganic Chemistry.’ His textbook on
organic chemistry has been used
for the course in previous summer
institutes at Oregon State.

@ GEORGE J. IRWIN, 720, associate
professor of Romance languages,
is the translator of an English
language edition of the highly ac-
claimed, “Introduction to the
Philosophy of History,’” by French
sociologist Raymond Aron.

The 349-page volume, published
in April by Beacon Press, is the
second work of Aron translated by
Professor Irwin to be published
this year. Last August, his rendi-
tion of “France: Steadfast and
Changing’ was published by the
Harvard University Press.

Professor Irwin has been a mem-
ber of the faculty since 1925.

@ DR. WILLIAM J. WATT, assistant
professor of Chemistry, will be a
member of the faculty of the sum-
mer National Science Foundation
Institute for high school teachers
at Alabama College, Montevallo,
Alabama.

‘The ten-week program is aimed
at improving the competence of sci-
ence teachers in secondary schools.
They will be able to qualify for
master’s degrees in science teach-
ing after three such summer ses-
sions.

 

= WOODROW WILSON National Fel-

lowships aimed at encouraging un-
dergraduates to pursue careers in
college teaching have been awarded
to four University seniors.
Receiving the highly-competitive
awards for 1961-62 were: Grayfred
B. Gray and James L. Hughes,
Richmond, Virginia; James A.
Vann, III, Birmingham, Alabama;
and Lynwood D. Zinn, Clarksburg,

SPRING 1961

West Virginia. The Fellowships
cover the cost of the first year in
graduate school.

Gray will continue study in phil-
osophy; Hughes in mathematics;
Vann in history; and Zinn in an-
thropology.

 

Valedictorian BRIAN H. VITSKY

gs A RICHMOND pre-medical student
will deliver the valedictory address
tor the 1961 graduating class. He is
Brian H. Vitsky, a senior from
Richmond. He achieved a_ nearly
perfect 2.92 average of a possible

3.0.

Son of a doctor, Brian expects to
enter Johns Hopkins Medical
school next year. He is a member
of Phi Beta Kappa, having been
selected during his junior year. He
was awarded “outstanding sopho-
more’ honor in 1959 by Phi Beta
Kappa, on the basis of his academ-
ic achievement.

THE FIRST student one-man art
show in the history of the Univer-
sity’s Department of Fine Arts was
staged in March by Norbert W.
Irvine. He is a senior who turned
from studies in commerce and eco-
nomics to work in the fine arts, and
has taken every art course offered
here.

For two years he has served as
a departmental student assistant to
Professor Marion Junkin, and also
holds art classes for some Lexing-
ton school children three times a
week.

In his exhibit were thirty paint-
ings and pieces of sculpture, a num-
ber of which were sold to specta-
tors. His sculpture mainly involved
the use of scrap metal, welded to-
gether to form startling angular
designs. His biggest project to date
has been the creation of a bronze
bowl through a “lost wax”’ process
made popular during the Renais-
sance. He carved the bowl from
pure wax, formed a mold of fine
plaster about it, then fired it con-
tinuously for thirty-six hours to
melt the wax from inside the mold.
Then it was cast in bronze at a
Waynesboro foundry.

From near Lexington, Norbert
is married to the former Celia Cim-
mons of Burlington, North Caro-
lina. He hopes for a career in
teaching, after he attends graduate
school next year.

ONE OF THE newer students at
Washington and Lee is a Rock-
bridge county businessman, George
A. Lear, a 1935 political science
graduate of Brown University. He
is enrolled as a special student in
the School of Commerce and Ad-
ministration, where he is learning
why he became the successful busi-
nessman he did.

Mr. Lear took over his father’s
lumber business in 1935 and ran it
until World War II brought him
duty as a combat officer in the
Marine Corps. In 1946, he became
president of Moor and White, one
of the world’s largest manufactur-
ers of pulp and paper mill mach-
inery, and held this position ten
years. He now has business inter-
ests in Philadelphia, and in Lex-
ington, where he is back in the
timber business again.

He hopes to enter the Law
School here next September, ful-

9

 

filling an ambition he held during
his undergraduate days at Brown.
His twenty-six year vacation from
formal study hasn’t bothered him
at all, and he says that studying
isn’t half the drudgery that many
younger students claim it is.

# A DEBATE team composed solely
of freshmen won three of twelve
individual speaking awards given
at the Mt. Mercy Varsity Invita-
tional Debate ‘Tournament in Pitts-
burgs this spring. Thirteen col-
leges took part, and only Duquesne
University gained more individual
honors than Washington and Lee.

The team was composed of Wil-
liam A. Noell, Jr., Bluefield, West
Virginia; Alfred E. Eckes, Jr., Brad-
ford, Pennslyvania; John W. Clark,
Jr., Birmingham, Alabama; and
John H. Kirkley, Atlanta, Georgia.

At the Miami University Invita-
tional Cross-Exemination Debate
Tournament at Oxford, Ohio, two
Washington and Lee _ debaters
ranked high in honors. William
Boardman of Columbus, Ohio,
took second place among 64 debat-
ers from leading colleges and uni-
versities. William Buice of Char-
lotte, North Carolina, placed sev-
enth.

The debating team captured the
Virginia state championship in the
annual ‘Tau Kappa Alpha tourna-
ment. William W. Chaffin, English
instructor, is the coach.

= AN UNUSUAL father-son honor
took place in April, when Beta
Gamma Sigma initiated Courtney
R. Mauzy and Courtney R. Mauzy,
Jr., into the Washington and Lee
chapter.

Mr. Mauzy is vice-president and
trust officer of the Charlotte, North
Carolina, office of the Wachovia
Bank and Trust Company. Court-
ney, Jr., a Phi Beta Kappa and co-
captain of the football team, and
his father profess a friendly rivalry.
The elder Mauzy graduated from
the University of Virginia, while

10

 

Dr. Lewis W. ApAMs, left, looks on as COURTNEY MAUZzY, JR., a senior, shakes hands with
CourRTNEY MAuwzy, Sr., at the initiation of Beta Gamma Sigma. See story below.

Junior chose Washington and Lee.
After graduate school next year,
Courtney, Jr., will join the North
Carolina National Bank, a chief
competitor of his father’s bank.
Others honored at the initiation
by the national society for students
of business administration were:
Earl S. Mattingly, ’25, treasurer of
Washington and Lee, and students
Stephen H. Paley, Stephen W. Rut-
ledge, and Harry S. Wilbourn.

 

& OUTSTANDING ACADEMIC WORK by
an alumnus at Rensselaer Polytech-
nic Institute has resulted in a gift
of $1,000 to Washington and Lee

from the International Nickel
Company of New York.

Edward A. Corcoran, ’60, of
South Richmond Hull, New York,
was awarded the nickel company’s
3-2 Combined Study Program
Scholarship at R.P.I. It is the cus-
tom of the company to award a
companion grant of $1,000 to the
liberal arts college from which the
student in the program transferred.

Under the combined study pro-
gram conducted by Washington
and Lee and Rensselaer, a student
normally attends the University
for three years, then transfers to
Rensselaer for two additional years,

and receives a B.S. degree from
Washington and Lee, and an en-
gineering degree from Rensselaer
upon graduation.

By carrying more than the norm-
al academic load, Mr. Corcoran
won his bachelor’s degree here in
only three years, and expects to
complete his work on a chemical
engineering degree at Rensselaer
in just one year.

= TWO GIFTS have been made to
the Director’s Fund of the Lee
Memorial Journalism Foundation.
One was from John P. French, ’50,
of ‘Topeka, Kansas, president of
Luce Press Clipping Service. ‘The
other was from the Clifton Forge
Daily Review, Virginia’s smallest
daily paper. Both have donated to
the Fund in previous years.

 

= SENATOR BARRY Goldwater of Ari-

zona, leader of the Conservative
Republicans, spoke before a capac-
ity crowd of 1,300 at Doremus gym-
nasium on March 1. His address
was sponsored by Pi Sigma Alpha,
honorary political science fraterni-
ty.

With a topic of “Federal Aid to
Education Is Unnecessary,’ the
senator declared states can finance

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

their own public schools, if they
will but make the effort. And local
financing avoids the big carrying
charge levied on the taxpayer by
the federal government, he added.

While making it clear he is no
segregationist, he said he thinks it
would be a mistake for Congress to
enact further civil rights legislation
this year. “Let’s leave this thing
alone for awhile,’ he declared. He
voiced the opinion that Richard
Nixon might’ve won the presiden-
tial election by picking up more
Southern states if he had not em-
phasized the Republican civil
rights program.

m= DR..GERMAINE BREE, a member of
the Institute for Research in the
Humanities at the University of
Wisconsin, discussed “The writer
and Our Times: Malreux, Satre,
Camus,” on April 10.

Dr. Bree, a noted authority on
French literature and the _ late
French author Albert Camus,
served with the French under-
ground forces during World War
Il.

m THE CHAIRMAN of the University
of Indiana geology department, Dr.
John B. Patton, talked on “Geology
and World Affairs’ on April 6,
here.

He met with University geology
students April 5-7, under the aus-
pices of the Visiting Geological
Scientist Program of the American
Geological Institute.

| THE DEPARTMENT of religion
joined with the Seminar in Lit-
erature series to present Dr. Wil-
liam R. Mueller in two addresses
on April 4-5.

Dr. Mueller, chairman of the
English department at Gouclhier,
discussed “The Literature of Bibli-
cal Commitment” and “The Lit-
erature of Ultimate Concern.” The
event marked the first of a series
of joint seminars the religion de-
partment hopes to sponsor with

SPRING 1961

other departments and lecture pro-
erams at the University.

# A FORMER Fulbright — scholar
spoke in duPont auditorium on
March 8, on the subject, “The Ob-
solescence of Isolationism.” ‘The
speaker was Dr. Walter W. Deshler,
professor of geography at the Uni-
versity of Maryland. He has stud-
ied in British East Africa, and took
part in an expedition to northern
Kenya in 1951 with the Oxford
University Expeditions Club.

# DR. NICHOLAS NYARADI, a former
Hungarian Minister of Finance,
spoke on “Shall We Survive?” on
April 14. A naturalized American
citizen, he is now the director of
the School of International Studies
at Bradley University.

The valuable antique grandfather's clock at Washington and Lee, given by D. G. GRONER,

During World War II, Dr. Ny-
aradi was active in the _ under-
ground movement against the

Nazis. After the war, he spent sev-
en months in Moscow negotiating
a Russian reparation claim against
Hungary. From these conferences
with Soviet leaders came his book,
“My Ringside Seat in Moscow.”

 

g A WASHINGTON AND LEE alumnus
has presented the school with an
authentic 161-year-old antique
erandfather’s clock valued at about
$8,000.

The clock was given by Duncan
G. Groner, 35, of New York, and
now stands in the reception room

 

35, is admired by JAMES D. FARRAR, '49, assistant dean of students, and FRANK J. GILLIAM,
17. The clock is ‘on the second floor of Washington Hall. It is valued at 8000 dollars.

11

 

of the Dean of Students’ office. It
was made by John W. Bailey, Jr.,
a Hanover, Massachusetts, clock-
maker and inventor, who produced
the elegant timepiece for Joseph G.
Rea of Boston, about 1800. The
clock is an eight-day, weight-driv-
en instrument.

The cabinet styling is predom-
inantly Sheraton, but it has carved
twisted columns on the hood, and
quarter columns between the chest
and hood. Brass finals and eagle
and ball decorations on top are
original. ‘There is a_day-of-the-
month dial and a moon-phase in-
dicator.

Mr. Groner received the clock
from his grandfather, a descendent
of the Rea family.

 

m™ FIVE WASHINGTON AND LEE law
school graduates were among the
122 men who successfully passed
the Virginia State Bar Examina-
tions.

They were George H. Fralin, Jr.,
Paul Bolt, John Garrett, Kenneth

 

O. Huntingdon, Jr., and William
EK. McLaughlin.

® ABOUT SIXTY Law School alumni
returned to campus on April 21-22
for the thirteenth annual Tucker
Law Lectures, delivered by the
Honorable E. Barrett Prettyman,
circuit Judge of the United States
Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia.

Judge Prettyman spoke on the
general topic of “Some Modern
Problems in Criminal Law.” Lec-
tures dealt with ““The Problem of
the Indigent,” “The Problem of
the Incompetent,” and “The Prob-
lem of the Juvenile.”

More than one hundred alumni,
faculty, and wives attended the
luncheon on April 22, immediately
following the last lecture.

‘The Law School Association met
after the luncheon, and elected as
its president for 1961-62, Judge
Thornton G. Berry, Jr., ’34, of the
West Virginia State Supreme Court
of Appeals, Charleston, West Vir-
ginia. -He ‘succeeds.. Edward 5S.
Graves, ’30, of Lynchburg.

Judge Prettyman has held his

At the Tucker Law Lecture held April 21 and 22, this group got together in Tuckér

Hall. Left to right, E. WALLER DuDLEy, ‘47, Alexandria, president of the Law School As-
sociation last year; EpwArp S. GRAVES, ’30, Lynchburg, president of the Association this
year, Judge E. BARRETT PRETTYMAN, and the Law School Dean CHARLES P. LicHrt, Jr.

iZ

present position since 1945, when
he was nominated by President
Truman. He was chairman of the
President’s Conference on Adminis-
trative Procedure. His Dougherty
lectures at the University of Vir-
ginia have been published in book
form under the title, “Trial by
Agency.” For fifteen years, he lec-
tured at Georgetown University on
tax law. He is a former president of
the District of Columbia Bar As-
sociation.

 

8 FOR A TEAM that turned in only
a so-so 7-11 record for the season,

the 1961-62 basketball Generals
certainly endeared themselves to
students and alumni. They _ hus-
tled all year, making up for lack of
height and experience, but the
night they hustled the most was
on February 13 when they pulled
off a 78-68 upset victory over the
University of Virginia.

Of course, this was no great team
of Cavaliers, but even so, Coach
Billy McCann’s Atlantic Coast Con-
ference team was supposed to have
easy pickings against the outman-
ned Generals. But led by the fiery
play-making of sophomore Brett
Thackston, the game’s top scorer
with 27 points, and by the tremen-
dous rebounding and _ scoring of
sophomore Rodger Fauber, the
Generals grabbed the lead early
and held it. Fauber, who wound up
the season among the national
leaders in rebounding, grabbed off
24 rebounds and added 26 points
in the win over Virginia.

The Generals also proved a spoil-
er for the Little Eight champs,
Randolph-Macon, when the Jackets
came to Doremus Gymnasium.
Fauber with 23 and Thackston
with 18 were the big guns in a 73-
69 win.

The team was handicapped in
the late stages of the campaign by
injuries which deprived it of the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

services of Ken Kowalski, still an-
other sophomore, and by the loss
of 6-6” freshman John McDowell
due to academic difficulties. But
Coach Bob McHenry has the en-
tire bunch back next year, plus
some additional support from some
freshmen surprises off a frosh team
with a 11-4 season which included
a string of eight straight wins at
one point.

Fauber was named to the sec-
ond team of the Associated Press
All-Virginia small college team.

‘The Generals’ swimmers, braving
a beefed-up schedule but setting
new pool records in the process,
didn’t repeat their unbeaten sea-
son of last year, but the 6-4 record
they did compile brought no loss
of prestige. Again led by Elliott
Maynard, the brilliant breast stroke
speedster, the swimmer added to
a winter sports domination of the
University of Virginia by besting
the Cavalier mermen 59-33 early
in the season.

Coach Norris Eastman, who as-
sumed the coaching duties this year
from long-time veteran E. P. “Cy”
Twombly, entered Maynard in the
Eastern Intercollegiate Champion-
ships at Princeton, and the Port-
land, Me., junior placed second in
the 100-yard breast stroke. At sea-
son's end, Maynard was ranked
12th among men in his event in
the nation.

In wrestling, a sport slowly but
surely climbing back into a _ posi-
tion of preeminence at Washing-
ton and Lee, the General matmen
enjoyed their best season in years
with a 7-3 record. In the final
match of the year, the wrestlers
made it a clean sweep over Virginia
with an unprecedented 28-0 victory
for Coach Dick Miller.

Losses were to North Carolina,
Franklin and Marshall, and West
Virginia, while victories were re-
corded over New York University,
Pfeiffer, Gallaudet,  Hampden-
Sydney, Duke, N. C. State, and
Virginia.

SPRING 1961

With the spring sports season
half completed as of this writing,
winning seasons are in _ prospect
for every sport except lacrosse,
where inexperience and injuries
have hurt grieviously.

After having suffered 1-15 and
3-17 seasons in two previous years,
the baseball team—composed _ es-
sentially of the same players—has
risen up to assume a role of op-
portunists. Behind superb pitch-
ing by senior right hander Roy
Carpenter—known last year as
“Hard Luck” Carpenter—timely
hitting and excellent base running,
Coach Joe Lyle’s team has moved
to a 6-4 mark at mid-season.

Carpenter now has won four
straight, as have the Generals, and
chances are good that Washington
and Lee may have its first winning
baseball season since 1952 when
the Generals carded a 10-7 record.

A relatively weak schedule is
keeping the track team from dis-
playing just how much depth and
balance it does possess. Coach
Norm Lord’s thinclads have now
won 15 straight dual meets over a
two-year span, just completing their
second undefeated season in a row.

Jim Hickey, a junior from South
Boston, has established new Wash-
ington and Lee records in the 100
and 220-yd. dashes. Against Lynch-
burg College, he ran the 100 in
9-75, Shading the g.8 mark that
three other W&L runners, includ-
ing Cy Young, had held since 1930
when W. S. Sandifer last ran a
record-tying race. Earlier against
Wake Forest, Hickey sped 220
yards on a straight track in 21.3,
three-tenths of a second better than
R. P. Grant’s mark of 1931.

Coach Cy Twombly’s golfers are
6-1 so far this season, with Jack
Vardaman continuing to lead the
linksmen in his junior year. Coach
Bill Washburn’s tennis team is 6-8,
with the Generals getting good
play from senior Bill McWilliams
and freshman John Baker.

The lacrosse team is suffering at

the 3-7 stage of its season, and
things will get no better, it seems,
this year. Some promising fresh-
men and sophomores are on hand,
but in lacrosse, perhaps more than
any other sport, nothing counts so
much as experience and the skill
that comes with it. A notable win
was in an 8-5 victory over the tour-
ing team from Oxford-Cambridge
Universities in England, the first
contest on American soil for the
British, whose team was a host to
the W. and L. squad which toured
England in 1956.

SPRING SCORES

(to presstime)

Baseball
W. and L. Opponent
3—Elon College..................... 5
1—North Carolina State.............. 13
6—Harvard ..... 0. eee O
6—William and Mary............... 4
1—Bridgewater ..................05. 7
o—West Virginia.................... 3
4—West Virginia.................... 3
5—William and Mary................ I
Lacrosse
W. and L. Opponent
4—Maryland ...................0008. 22
8—Oxford-Cambridge ............... 5
1—Williams ..........0.....0...008. 12
S-—Hofstra 2. ec ec bee 13
3—Colgate .... 0... eee eee eee WD
14—Loyola ..... eee ee 6
5—Baltimore University.............. 14
g—North Carolina................... 2
g—Duke .. on. ei bene e tee 6
Tennis
W. and L. | Opponent
o—Colgate .......... tee e see ete es 9
8—Lynchburg ............. pe oy gas -
8—West Virginia....... Se go ghgonn sev i ae 1
5—George Washington............... 4
o—Duke ......... eee eee 9
4—Randolph-Macon ................ 5
7—Richmond ................0.0.04. 2
4—William and Mary................ 5
Golf
W. and L. Opponent
6 MT Fer Destin nie des 3
6 1/2—West Virginia............. 2.1/8
6 1/g—Lynchburg ............... 2 1/2
8 1/2—Hampden-Sydney ....... we 1/2
3 1/2—Richmond ................ 5 1/2
5 —William and Mary............ 1
9 —Roanoke ................004. O
Track
W. and L. Opponent
104 —High Point............. 36
78 —Wake Forest............. 52
103 —East Carolina............ 37
o4 2/3—Richmond .............. 45 1/3
111 1/3—Hampden-sydney ..,..... 28 2/3
13

 

CHAPTER CORRESPONDENTS

Appalachian—Lloyd A. Myers, Jr., ’31, 516
Vance Drive, Bristol, Tennessee

Te ee nea ae . B. Stombock, Box
594, Waynesboro, Virginia

Atlanta—Farris P. Hotchkiss, ’58, 370 Al-
berta Terrace, N.E., Apt. 2-D

Baltimore—John D. Mayhew, ’26, 38 North-
wood Drive, Timonium, Maryland

Birmingham—John V. Coe, ’25, 1631 North
3rd Street

Charleston, West Virginia—Ruge P. DeVan,
Jr., ’34, United Carbon Building

Chattanooga—Gerry U. Stephens, °50, 2720
Haywood Avenue

Chicago—Charles A. Strahorn, ’28, Winnet-
ka Trust and Savings Bank, Winnetka,
Illinois

Charlotte—John Schuber, Jr., °44, 1850
Sterling Road, Charlotte 9, N. C.

Cincinnati—Robert F. Wersel, °42, 1925
Rockwood Drive, Cincinnati 8, Ohio

Cleveland—Hal R. Gates, Jr., °48, 19801
Wickfield Road, Cleveland 22

Cumberland Valley—James L. Rimler, ’31,
N. Court St., Frederick, Maryland

Danville—C. Richmond Williamson, 751,
P. O. Box 497

Florida West Coast—Charles P. Lykes, ’39,
P. O. Box 2879, Tampa, Florida

Houston—Robert W. Davis, Jr., ’30, 1547
Esperson Building

Jacksonville—A. Lee Powell, Jr., °50, 34
Buckman Building

Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, °49, 15 West
10th Street

Louisville—Ernest Woodward, II, ’40, Ken-
tucky Home Life Building

Lynchburg—Frank H. Callaham, Jr., °52,
1521 Parkland Drive, Lynchburg

Mid-South—J. Hunter Lane, Jr., °52, 727
Commerce Title Bldg., Memphis, Tenn.

New Orleans—Herbert Jahncke, ’30, Jahn-
cke Service

New York—Robert E. Steele, III, ’41, 7
Pine Ridge Road, Town of Rye, Port-
chester, New York,

New River and Greenbrier—Harry E. Mo-
ran, ’13, Beckley, West Virginia

Norfolk, Virginia—Ferdinand Phillips, Jr.,
’51, 1705 Banning Rd., Norfolk

North Texas—John M. Stemmons, ’31, 401
Davis Building, Dallas

Northern Louisiana—Robert U. Goodman,
’°50, 471 Leo Street, Shreveport, Louisiana

Peninsula—John P. Bowen, Jr., c/o The
Daily Press, Inc., 215-217 25th Street,
Newport News, Virginia

Palm Beach - Ft. Lauderdale — John F.
Ginestra, °44, 2748 N.E. 20th Street Ft.
Lauderdale

Philadelphia—Sidney Ulfelder, Jr., ’24,
Brookmead Drive, Earlton, New Jersey

Piedmont—A. M. Pullen, Jr., ’36, 203 South-
eastern Building, Greensboro, N. C.

Pittsburgh—A. M. Doty, ’35, Quail Hill
Road, Fox-Chapel, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Richmond—Edward J. McCarthy, ’42, 1203
Essex Avenue, Richmond, Virginia

Roanoke—William R. Holland, °50, Moun-
tain Trust Bank, P. O. Box 1411

San Antonio—John W. Goode, Jr., ’48, 201
N, St. Mary’s Street

St. Louis—Malcolm Holekamp, ’538, 344
Gray Ave., Webster Groves 19, Missouri

Tri-State—Joe W. Dingess, ’21, 151 Kings
Highway, Huntington, West Virginia

Tulsa—Phillip R. Campbell, °57, 603 Phil-
tower Bldg., Tulsa, Oklahoma

Upper Potomac—Thomas N. Berry, ’38, 15

. Allegany St., Cumberland, Maryland

Washington, D. C. — Arthur Clarendon
Smith, Jr., ’41, 1313 You Street, N.W.

Wilmington, Delaware—A. Robert Abra-
hams, Jr., 303 Waverly Rd.

 

If you move, contact the nearest
chapter correspondent for

news of meetings.

14

CLass NOTES

1893

A testimonial dinner was held by 800
friends for I. H. KEMPNER in Galveston,
Texas, on January 14, 1961. Mr. Kempner,
a business and civic leader for more than
half a century in Galveston, is still active
in the city. He served for thirty-two years
as director, vice-president and president
of the Galveston Cotton Exchange; mayor,
and commissioner of finance of Galveston;
advisor to the University of ‘Texas medi-
cal branch; chairman of the Medical and
Hospital committee for the Galveston
Chamber of Commerce; and a member of
the board of directors of the Gulf, Colora-
do and Santa Fe Railroad. January 14 was
proclaimed as “I. H. Kempner Day” in
Galveston by the mayor.

1896

MARION W. Ripy, at the advice of his
doctors, has retired and moved to Venice,
Florida. His address is: Grenada Apart-
ments, P. O. Box 706, Venice, Florida.

1898

BENJAMIN F. HARLOw is 87 years old and
is taking life easy on the farm, “Clifton,”
outside of Lexington. His son, F. Hous-
ton Harlow, and family moved into his
home, following the death of Mrs. Har-
low, December 1, 1960.

1899

J. A. McCiure, now living in St. Peters-
burg, Florida, is approaching with vigor
his eighty-ninth birthday this year. Still
very active and busy, he writes that his
three sons, all graduates of Washington
and Lee, are doing well.

1902

Dr. W. T. Extis has retired from medi-
cine, except for a little office work and a
few private calls. He was surgeon to the
Bureau of Police and Fire in Philadel-
phia for thirty-five years. Address: 1115
Lindley Avenue, Philadelphia 41, Penn-
sylvania.

1903

The Alumni Office has received a com-
munication from B. B. SHIVELY of Mar-
ion, Indiana. He attended Washington
and Lee between 1899-1902, and has con-
tinued through the years to be a loyal
member of the alumni association.

WILLIAM J. TURNER has retired to 1717
S. W. Park Avenue, Portland, Oregon, af-
ter thirty-five years in Chile, South Amer-
ica, and seventeen years in various parts
of the United States.

1905

Davin Tay Moore, who celebrated his
eightieth birthday on February 8, 1961,
was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws
Degree by Davis and Elkins College last
June. | ,

S. BLounr MAson, Jr. is retired, and lives
in Baltimore, where he keeps busy work-
ing in his garden. He says his motto now
is ‘‘never run when you can walk, never
walk when you can sit, and never sit if
there is a bed handy.” ,

1908

Ropert S. KEEBLER retired in March, 1959,
after twenty-five years of legal service with

 

Annual Alumni Meeting

June 1, 2 p.m., Lee Chapel |

See details on page 33

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

=

the government, principally with the Se-
curities and Exchange Commission. He
and his wife live in Chevy Chase, Mary-
land.

1909

Dr. DevaLt L. GwWATHMEY, Episcopal min-
ister, of Wytheville, Virginia, is still active
in visiting and ministering to the church
parishes. His most recent visit was in
Virginia Beach for five months.

Dr. W. E. Moretanp began the practice
of medicine in Nicaragua in 1914, but has
been practicing in Powhatan, Louisiana,
since 1917. At 75, he is still actively en-
gaged in a daytime practice.

1910

MILes CARY JOHNSTON is a partner in an
architectural and engineering firm, Car-
neal and Johnston, in Richmond, Vir-
ginia. He is an avid golfer and_ still
loves to play.

THE Rev. JAMES N. MONTGOMERY had a
part-family reunion during Christmas of
1960. His two daughters, both married to
medical doctors, together with nine
grandchildren, joined in the celebration.
‘The sons-in-law are doctors in Korea and
in the Congo.

B. M. HIGcINBOTHAM is living in Lake-
land, Florida. He retired about ten years
ago, but has been successful since then
as a land surveyor.

1911

After graduation MICHAEL Brown started
in the manufacturing and_ wholesale
timber business in Georgia and New
York. Between 1917 and 1921 he served in
the government building boats. Married
in 1926, the Browns make their home in
Matawan, New Jersey. He remains active
in the timber and security investment
business.

HeNrY MoncvureE retired in March, 1959,
from the Civil Service Commission. He
was at the Radford (Virginia) Arsenal,
Ordnance Department, as chief of ac-
ceptance and assistant chief inspector.
powder, explosives, and missiles. This
position also included being chief chem-
ist in charge of the Ballistic Range. The
Moncures bought ‘The Custom House”
in Tappahannock, Virginia, which was
built before 1650 as a tavern, and added
to by order of the Crown in 1680 as
the first custom house on the Rappahan-
nock River.

1912

Howarp A. Doss will receive his fifty-year
Masonic pin in April, 1962. He writes that
he looks forward to this and to his Gold-
en Anniversary at Washington and Lee.

1913

Francis P. GARDNER retired from the
U. S. Navy Medical corps in 1946 with

SPRING 1961

the rank of commander, and makes his
winter home in Eau Gallie, Florida. In the
summer, when the snows are gone and the
rock fish begin to bite, he moves back
to Matthews, Virginia.

RicHARD A. SMITH, former director of
athletics at Washington and Lee, served
in February as co-chairman of the fund
drive for the Rockbridge County-Buena
Vista Mental Health Association.

Harry M. SATTERFIELD writes that he is in
the tough and risky salvage business in
California. He swims daily all year around
in San Francisco Bay where the average
temperature is 52 degrees.

RICHARD W. JOHNSON was an agriculture
eraduate of West Virginia University in
1913, after spending one year at Wash-
ington and Lee. He got a master’s degree
in agriculture from Wisconsin University
in 1914, and since that time, has run the
home farm, producing certified seeds and
registered livestock, mostly shorthorn cat-
tle. He was one of the original founders
of the Farm Bureau in West Virginia, and
served as county chairman. He assisted in
establishing a Farm Co-operative, a live-
stock shopping association, and was first
chairman of the Agricultural Conserva-
tion Program in Monroe county, West
Virginia.

1914

C. H. Morrisetr is Virginia State Tax
Commissioner. During this spring, he has
been traveling with the State Capital Out-
lays Commission to colleges, prisons, and
mental hospitals in the state, to assist in
recommendations to Governor Lindsay
Almond, Jr. the capital needs of the state
institutions for the next six years. He
spent one night in Lexington during his
tour via chartered bus, and was able to
see his alma mater again. “I don’t get up
to Lexington much,” he says. “Too busy
in Richmond!”

Burorp S. Burks has practiced dentistry in
Crewe, Virginia since 1923. He settled
there after World War I and in 1925
married the former Susie Epes of Black-
stone, Virginia.

WALTER H. Surrey retired January 1,
1961, from active business but has gone
into the field of real estate in Richmond,
Virginia.

WARREN C. BROWN, Jr., says he has en-
joyed excellent health in all of his sixty-
seven years, in spite of a fight with can-
cer four years ago, from which he is com-
pletely recovered. He is the father of a
son and two daughters, and boasts six
grandchildren. In past years, he has been
president of the Nashville Rotary Club,
active in auto and insurance organizations,
on the board of the YMCA and Chamber
of Commerce. He has been vestryman in
the Episcopal church, and recently retired
as president of El Paso Council of
Churches.

FRANCIS PICKENS MILLER has finished six
years of service on the Central Committee
of World Council of Churches. He is a
member of the Board of the Southern
Regional Council and has been instru-
mental in organizing the Committee for
Religious Freedom. During the 1960
presidential campaign, Mr. Miller organ-
ized the Straight Democratic ‘Ticket Com-
mittee in Virginia.

Atex M. Hirz after finding retirement
“too boring a life” is now an assistant
county attorney, trying land condemnation
cases in Atlanta. He and his wife plan a
trip to Hawaii next fall to visit their
son, Capt. JAMES C. Hitz, 54, U.S. Ma-
rine Corps.

1915

COLONEL FRANK Hayne retired from the
Army in 1947. After several moves around
in the United States, accompanied each
time by a house sale, he moved to London,
England in 1957. He has been in Europe
ever since and writes that the advantage
is being able to move about without
selling a house. The doctors, he says,
advise his giving up wine—he plans to
go to Spain since he says it easier to give
up Spanish wine than French.

1916

Dr. WILEY Davis Forsus is abroad, serv-
ing with the State Department in Sura-
baja, Indonesia. He will return to this
country in December 1963.

RUSSELL S. RHODES retired in 1959 as a
Chamber of Commerce executive in Tulsa,
Oklahoma, and has since then been vice-
president of Home Federal Savings and
Loan Association of Tulsa. Mr. Rhodes
and his wife were to spend this month
touring Europe.

Epp W. DEARMON was a member of the
architectural group which restored the
White House in Washington in 1947-51.
He retired in 1953 as a government archi-
tect and now lives in Lincolnton, Georgia.
He is an elder in the Presbyterian Church.

1917

E. L. Hx has retired from a fourty-four
year career with Union Carbide Corpor-
ation. At the time of his retirement on
January 31, 1961, he was superintendent
of the company’s plant at Portland, Ore-
gon. He has been active in the Portland
Chamber of Commerce, and has served on
its board of directors. He served as chair-
man of the Northwest Industrial Health
Conference in 1958. He and Mrs. Hix
planned a leisurely trip to Florida after
retirement, but will continue to make
their home in Portland.

Dr. CHARLES W. McNitr has moved to
Charlottesville, Virginia, and intends to
open an office there during the coming
year.

(Continued on page 18)

15

 

Dr. Dickey, ’10; P. W. Murray, ’10; Dr. Cote; Dr. FLOURNOY, president, ’21; DR. Lowry; DEAN LIGHT.

PHI BET
Celebr
fiftieth A

 

 

Top, left to right, P. W. Murray, ’10; M. D. McKeEE, Jr., “10; JupGe E. S. DELAPLAINE, ’13; Dr. W. T. THOM, °13; CHARLES R. LEMON, °4Q9.
Bottom, Dr. C. W. Hickam, ’25; Dr. H. E. HANbLEY, ’19; GEORGE M. BROOKE, JR., 42; Dr. C. I. Lewis, ’30; M. W. ADELSON, ’32.

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Dr. L. J. DEsHA, secretary, ’06; FRANK PARSONS, ‘54; C. R. MCDOWELL, JR., 49; M. W. PAXTON, Sr., 18.

A KAPPA
ites Its

 

niversary

 

ASHINGTON AND LEE’S Gamma
W Virginia chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa observed its fiftieth an-
niversary, in day-long activities on
April 12.

One of the highlights of the ob-

servance was the address in Lee

chapel at noon by Dr. Howard F.
Lowry, president of the College
of Wooster, Wooster, Ohio. He
spoke on “Margins of Possibility”

 

Left to right, Dr. W. D. Hoyt, Jr., ’32:

SPRING 1961

at the annual Phi Beta Kappa-Cin-
cinnati convocation. He also spoke
at the initiation banquet that night
for sixteen new student members

and two honorary initiates.

Alumni members of the chapter
were invited to come back for the
activities, and a number of them
responded. Among events sched-
uled for them were an informal
luncheon, and an afternoon recep-

 

OMER LEE Hirst, ’36; IT. C. DAMEWOOD, 751;
Dr. FREEMAN H. Hart, ’12; J. FORESTER TAYLOR, '49; and ROGER HALLER, ’28.

 

tion at the home of Washington
and Lee’s President Fred C. Cole.
At the reception, a string ensemble
played chamber music popular in
1776, the year in which Phi Beta
Kappa was founded at the College
of William and Mary.

Formal initiation of new mem-
bers took place at 6:30 o’clock in
the Student Union. Among the ini-
tiates were: Charles R. McDowell,
Jr., °49, columnist for the Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch; Dr. Edward
D. Myers, professor of philosophy;
law seniors John Page Garrett,
Portsmouth, Virginia; Nicholas H.
Rodriguez, Magnolia, Delaware;
Emil J. Sulzberger, Jr., Phoebus,
Virginia; and Hugh V. White, Hol-
land, Virginia; seniors John A.
Broaddus, Richmond, Virginia;
Roy Carpenter, Bryan, Texas;
Grayfred B. Gray, Richmond, Vir-
ginia; Henry H. Harrell, Sabot,
Virginia; David W. Haslett, Hick-
ory, North Carolina; James L.
Hughes, Richmond, Virginia;
Courtney R. Mauzy, Jr., Charlotte,
North Carolina; Stephen H. Paley,
Kensington, Maryland; Milford F.
Schwartz, Washington, D. C.; John
H. Soper, Kansas City, Missouri;
James A. Vann, III, Birmingham,
Alabama; and junior Joseph L.
Goldstein, Kingstree, South Caro-
lina.

17

 

CLass NOTES

(Continued from page 15)

1918

Lyon W. BRANDON has spent many years
in service to community projects and
veterans’ affairs in Misissippi. A colonel
in the National Guard of Tennessee, he
served three years as Chief de Gare of
the Forty and Eight in Mississippi, Grand
Cheminot, Grand Chief de Gare, Chemi-
not National, Sous Chief de Chemin de
Fer, and National Director of Voiture ac-
tivities. As a member of the American
Legion’s Special Legislative Committee,
he helped draft the “GI Bill” and spon-
sored it through Congress. He was named
Special Advisor on employment to the
National Commander of the Legion, and
accompanied the 1946 commander on all
his travels. He has received numerous
awards and honors from civic and veter-
ans’ organizations, such as the VFW Dis-
tinguished Service Award, Heart Fund
Meritorious Award, Distinguished Service
Award from the Mississippi American
Legion, Distinguished Service by the
Daughters of the Confederacy, and others.
Mr. Brandon is a consultant for the U. S.
Veterans Employment Agency in Missis-
sippi, which he helped to set up 26 years
ago.

1920

CARL K. GILCHRIST is assistant vice-presi-
dent of the United Fuel Gas Company of
Charleston, West Virginia. He is also
secretary of the Board of ‘Trustees of
Morris Harvey College.

1921

JAMEs Howze Bryan, having met the pre-
scribed requirements, has been awarded
the professional designation, M.A.T., from
the American Institute of Real Estate
Appraisers of the National Association of
Real Estate Boards.

1922

W. J. L. Patron, a banker in New York
City, has recently been promoted to Depu-
ty Comptroller of the First National City
Bank of New York.

1923

SAUNDERS GUERRANT is still selling insur-
ance for Mutual of New York. He recent-
ly qualified for a trip to the Waldorf in
New York City, for his sales record.

1925

Dr. ANDREW T. Roy is engaged this year
in writing a book, The Church on the
Rim of East Asia, for the United Presby-
terian Church. In September, 1961, he
will return to Hong Kong to be vice-
president in charge of public relations of
Chung Chi College. Dr. Roy has one son
who is a second secretary of the American
Embassy in Bangkok, and another son

18

who is working for his Ph.D. at Harvard
in Chinese Intellectual History.

Dr. HERBERT POLLACK is on a round-the-
world tour, under the auspices of the
Ford Foundation. He is investigating the
research potentials of certain research in-
stitutions in the Far East and in Western
Europe. Dr. and Mrs. Pollack own a farm
south of Leesburg, Virginia, where they
often escape from the rigors of a New
York City existence.

1927

A. H. CROWELL is employee relations co-
ordinator for the Gulf Oil Corporation in
Houston, Texas. Prior to his recent ap-
pointment, he was manager of employee
and dealer relations for Gulf’s Southern
marketing region in Atlanta, and in the
New York marketing division. Address:
1616 Main Street, Houston.

WILLIAM C. WELLS is a member of the
sixteen-man board of directors of the
West Coast Hospital Association. The
association has been responsible for the
development and promotion of better
medical facilities in Clearwater, Florida
and the surrounding area. Owner of
radio station WMOA in Marietta, Ohio,
Mr. Wells moved to Florida in 1955.

Rass Davin H. Wice has been named
a member of the national Committee of
Alumni Overseers for Hebrew Union
College-Jewish Institute of Religion in
New York City. Rabbi Wice, of Congre-
gation Rodeph Shalom, Philadelphia, will
serve in Pennsylvania in an advisory ca-
pacity for the rabbinic schools, and_ in-
terpret the program to interested groups.

1928

CHARLES J. HOLLAND retired as an at-
torney, and now lives in Lake Placid,
Florida. He also spends part of the year
in Phoenix, Arizona. oe

After retirement from the USAF Medical
Corps as a colonel in November, 1959,
N. F. AtriA became deputy commission-
er for the ‘Tennessee Department of
Mental Health. He lives in Nashville.

1929

AsA Moore JANNEY runs the general store
in Lincoln, Virginia, which also serves as
village post office. His customers are
tickled at some of the advertisements he
runs for his store such as the sale ad he
ran which said, “Shirts are off, pants are
down at Janney’s.” Another time in an
ad, he promised written permission to
hunt on his farm with every hunting coat
bought at his store.

1930

Frep B. KING, JR. was recently elected to
the board of directors of the First Federal
Savings and Loan Association of Youngs-
town, Ohio. He is president of the

Youngstown Area Chamber of Commerce.
Fred is president and treasurer of the
Fred B. King Sons Company of Youngs-
town, a mortuary.

HARRY ‘THORNTON is with the real estate
firm of Pfieffer-Glant, Incorported, in
Pensacola, Florida. He was formerly sales
representative for the Bucyrus-Erie Cor-
poration, manufacturers of heavy excavat-
ing equipment.

1931

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. J. HANSFORD
‘THOMAS, JR. are the parents of a fifth
child, Thomas Randall, born July 21,1960.

MIKE LEE is sports editor of the Long
Island Daily Press, and lives in Jamacia
Estates, Long Island, New York. He is
also master of Rufus King Lodge, F and
AM, Jamaica; a past president of the
United States Harness Writers Associa-
tion; Chairman of the board of the Long
Island chapter, United Epilepsy Associa-
tion; a member of the Board of Man-
agers of the Central Queens YMCA. He
and hs wife, Rose, are the parents of three
children, Jack, 26; David, 21; and Judy,
17.

JouN C. SmirH is vice-president of the
Northern Trust Company of Chicago.
He and Mrs. Smith have a son, who
graduates this June from Wesleyan Col-
lege in Middletown, Connecticut.

Howarpb Carson is president of the State
Senate of West Virginia, and also heads
the Joint Committee on Enrolled Bills
and Joint Committee on Government and
Finance, on the part of the Senate.

MARRIED: ARTHUR B. SCHARFF was mar-
ried to Charlotte Jane Kraft on Decem-
ber 17, 1960 in Calvary Episcopal church,
Cincinnati. They honeymooned in Ja-
maica and Haiti. Address: 819 Dunore
Road, Cincinnati 20, Ohio.

1932

ROBERT W. REINHOLD has been in Rio
de Janeiro since September, 1960, as
management consultant in the United
States Mission to Brazil. Prior to that as-
signment, he served 27 months with the
International Cooperation Administration
as Public Administration advisor in Ka-
rachi, Pakistan.

ROBERT ELIAs is managing director of the
Hotel Somerset in Boston, Massachusetts.
Bob has had twenty-two years’ experience
in hotel work at Miami Beach, Atlantic
City, New York City, Las Vegas, and Lake
‘Tahoe.

1933

CHARLES J. LONGACRE, JR. is deeply im-
mersed in his work at Newark State Col-
lege in Union, New Jersey and is in many
professional activities. As an elected mem-
ber of the executive council of New Jersey
State College Faculty Association, Charles

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

is also chairman of the committee for
Higher Education in New Jersey and
chairman of his county committee for
School Support. All of these endeavors
are to create sentiment for broad _ legis-
lative action so that education facilities
may receive more state support. The
Field Service of Newark College in which
Charles is connected has registered 7500
students and employs 136 faculty mem-
bers.

After a year and a half on_leave-of-
absence, JEB S. DARBY, JR. is back with
Cutler Hammer, Incorporated as_ tech-
nical planning coordinator in Milwaukee
headquarters. The leave of absence was
in order to take care of family business
matters resulting from the death of his
father.

The Norfolk county school board recent-
ly appointed Epwin W. Cxitrum to his
fourth four-year term as superintendent
of the county school system. He _ has
headed a mammoth school building pro-
gram, during the past twelve years, which
has totaled some thirty-four million’ dél-
lars. In 1957, he. was awarded the Phi
Delta Kappa Distinguished Service Award.

O. RAYMOND CUNDIFF was appointed
judge of Lynchburg Corporation Court
at Lynchburg, Virginia, by the Virginia
governor. He had formerly served as
judge of the city’s juvenile Court for
eleven years. Judge Cundiff began his law
practice in 1933, and has served as as-
sistant commonwealth’s attorney, assist-
ant judge of the Municipal Court, and
chairman of the Lynchburg Electorial
Board. He is president of the alumni
board of Sigma Phi Epsilon at Wash-
ington and Lee.

Ratru O. Harvey is active in the oil and
gas drilling business in North Texas. ‘The
Harveys have a son who is a junior at
Washington and Lee, Ralph, III, and a
daughter who is a freshman at Stephens
college. Address: 2013 Berkley Drive,
Wichita Falls, ‘Texas.

CLARENCE S. Woops has a manufacturers
sales agency covering the Southeastern
seaboard from Washington, D.C. through
Florida, and dealing primarily in elec-
tronic, missile, and metal assembly in-
dustries. Clarence has five grandchildren
now. .

1934

R. P. DEVAN, JR. was recently elected
chairman of the Greater Kanawha Valley
Foundation, an organization dedicated to
the civic, cultural, and charitable im-
provement of Charleston, West Virginia,
area. He has long been active in Civic
affairs, and has served as chairman of
the United Fund Drive, a member of
the Police Civil Service Commission, the
Kanawha County Airport Committee,
board member of the Charleston Sym-
phony orchestra, and vice president of the
Charleston Rotary club.

SPRING 1961

Dr. GreorcE W. Price is engaged in the
private practice of medicine in Spartan-
burg, South Carolina. His eldest son,
George, will enter Washington and Lee
as a freshman in September. Address:
120 Hall Street, Spartanburg.

W. J. WALLACE is asistant cashier at the
First National Bank of Oklahoma City.
He is with the busines department as one
of the contact officers of the bank.

Joun Forp SHroper and family are ski
enthusiasts from Dorset, Vermont. John’s
son Jack, gtaduates in geology from Union
College this year, and his daughter, Ann,
is a freshman at Briarcliff, studying car-
tography.

1935

Jo M. Van ZANDT was recently elected
vice-president of the Louisville Board of
Insurance Agents. He is a partner in the
firm of Henning, Van Zandt and Emrich,
a company he has been with since 1946.
He, and Mrs. VanZandt are the parents of
one child.

Epwarp C, JOHNSTON is purchasing agent
and traffic manager for the Lees rug
manufacturing plant at Glasgow, Vir-
ginia. He is a director of the First Nation-
al Bank of Lexington, director of the
Old Dominion Purchasing Agents Associa-
tion, a deacon in the Collierstown Pres-

byterian church, and past president of the

Effnger Ruritan club. He served in the
Navy during World War H. He and his
wife are the parents of three children,
Edward, James, and Ann Johnston.

1936

PauL G. Hervey is serving as Guidance
Director and high school counselor for
len Creek High School, League City,

exas. During the summer he will serve

 

Counseling Institute under the National
Defense Education Act. He has one son
in his fourth year at the University of
Texas, and a second son attending ele-
mentary school.

FRANK PRICE won a special award for
“dedicated service” from the San Diego
Freedom Forum recently. He is agent in
charge of the San Diego office of the
F.B.I.

GrorcE W. Harrison has been promoted
to the rank of lieutenant colonel, and as-
signed Civil Affairs officer of the Thir-
tieth “Old Hickory” Infantry Division of
the North Carolina National Guard.

1937

R. N. Brooke is a practicing attorney in
Front Royal, Virginia. He has a son in
the tenth grade, who is a prospective stu-
dent of the class of 1967.

LyNNeE Morris ATMAR is working out of
the State Comptroller’s office in Austin,
‘Texas. He is presently stationed in Beau-
mont.

Louis P. CASHMAN, JR. is vice-president
and business manager of the Vicksburg,
Mississippi, Post. He was recently elected
to the board of directors of the Missis-
sippi Economic Council of the State
Chamber of Commerce for a_ three-year
term beginning May 1.

Dr. C. ARNOLD MATTHEWS was Visiting pro-
fessor of finance at the University of
Oregon for the summer session of 1960.
He is a Captain in the U. S. Naval Re-
serve.

James Briatock had a_ nice six-weeks’
tour of Europe not long ago, traveling
some six or eight thousand miles while
there.

James S. Bruce is director of training for
the Eastman Kodak Compeany, Rochester,
New York. He and Mrs. Thompson and
their four children took a camping trip
up the Alaskan Highway to Fairbanks
in 1959. At the same time, his brother
Bill, ’42, was in the Union of South Af-
rica, which as about as far as two people
can get away from each other and stay
on the globe.

1938

J. H. Rem now has five children, and the
youngest was born March 4, 1961. His
name is Joseph Walter Reid. The others
are: Cindy, Jay, Jim, Jack, and Joe. Jay
says Cindy is scrumptious and the boys are
all terrors. He has been employed by
the International Monetary Fund as In-
formation Officer since 1948. The Reids
live at 7208 Blacklock Road, Bethesda,
Maryland.

FRED WATERS is a manufacturers repre-
sentative in the wholesale coal business.
operating under the name of Waters Coal
Company. He and his wife have two sons
and one daughter, and live in College
Park, Georgia.

Art ALEXANDER is district manager of
the Toledo Scale Corporation of Cincin-
nati, Ohio. His territory includes northern
Kentucky and eastern Indiana.

THe Rev. ArTHuR L. Bice is rector of
Emmanuel Episcopal church in Little
Falls, New York. He and Mrs. Bice have
six children, five boys and one girl. Em-
manuel parish is 125 years old.

VERNON T. STRICKLER iS an insurance man
in Newport News, Virginia where he has
resided for the past twelve years. He is
a member of the Aetna Life Insurance
Company’s Million Dollar Group Club.
A fine public speaker, he is a governor of
Area XII of Toastmasters International.
Vernon has led the American Cancer So-
ciety Crusade in Newport News both as
chairman and as co-chairman. He is a
past president of the Peninsula chapter

19

 

CLass NotTeES

of the Alumni Association, and is also a
major in the Air Force Reserve.

J). Hiram SniIrH is with the U. S. Geologi-
cal Survey in Corbin, Kentucky, taking
part in the state’s cooperative program.

1939

GEORGE W. WILSON is the new president
of the Peoples State Bank of Alpena,
Michigan. He began his banking career
at the National Bank of Detroit, and has
been loan officer at the California Bank
in Whittier, executive vice-president of
the Bank of Arkansas at Little Rock, and
a member of the Little Rock investment
banking firm of Dabbs and Sullivan. Mr.
and Mrs. Wilson are the parents of three
daughters, Patricia, Susan, and Marilyn.

HEARTSILL RAGON is presently the vice-
president of the Arkansas Bar Association.
In this capacity, he is also president-elect
and will take office in June, 1961.

Emit ‘T. CANNON joined the F.B.I. as a
special agent after graduation, and served
until 1946, when he began the practice of
law in Florence, South Carolina. During
the Korean War, he returned to duty with
the F.B.1. for two years. In 1953, he went
back to his law practice. In 1959, he
opened his present law office on West
Market street in Timmonsville, South
Carolina, his home town. Emil battled
With gastric ulcer for nine years, and
had major surgery in January. He and
his wife, Ruth, are the parents of two
sons, Tommy and Benny.

CHARLES Harr is division personnel man-
ager for American Cyanamid Corp. in
Wayne, New Jersey. The Harts reside at
Pearl River, New York and have a daugh-
ter entering college this year.

ANDREW WHITE is president and co-owner
of the Palmetto Loom Reed Company,
manufacturer of textile supplies, in
Greenville, South Carolina. He and Mrs.
White are the parents of two sons and
a daughter.

Dr. WILLIAM JENKS was listening to a
radio broadcast of the Metropolitan Opera
one Saturday in February when he heard
his name mentioned. A question he sent
in had been accepted for discusion dur-
ing the program, and he received record-
ings of the operas, “Fledermaus” and
‘“Tourandot,” and two books on opera
as his prize.

WaArRD ARCHER is a partner in the adver-
tising and public relations agency of
Archer and Woodbury, Memphis, ‘Ten-
nessee. The firm produced _ television
commercials which were the subject of a
recent article in Television Age magazine.
Ward and Mrs. Archer have three chil-
dren.

20

FRANK GLENN is a cranberry grower in the
State of Washington. He also operates a
rhododendron and azalea nursery. He and
his wife have four sons, the oldest of
whom hopes to enter Washington and
Lee in September.

1940

In 1957, RALPH HAusraTH resigned as
news editor for the Suffolk county edi-
tion of the Long Island newspaper, News-
day. He went back to college and ob-
tained his master’s degree in education,
and began teaching in the Bay Shore,
Long Island, public schools.

After discharge from the U. S. Marine
Corps following World War II, James C.
GREEN made his home in Clarkton, North
Carolina, where he is an operator of
tobacco. warehouses in a number of

southern states. He is a member of the
North Carolina Legislature, representing
Bladen county. He and his wife, the
former Alice Clark, have three children.

Reup “STEVE” BRODIE, JR., is agent for
Equitable Life Insurance Company in
Owensboro, Kentucky. His wife, Louise,
is a senior high school English teacher,
and their son, Reid Brodie, III, has made
a distinguished record at Purdue Uni-
versity which he is attending on a Nava!
R.O.T.C. scholarship.

Dr. C. P. LEwits is an ear, eye, nose and
throat doctor in Reidsville, North Car-
olina. “Casey” and Mrs. Lewis have 15-
year-old twins—a daughter and a _ son.
Dr. BILL TRricc, ’49, has an office next
door, and the two of them have an alum-
ni meeting almost daily.

 

 

m DAVID B. WHARTON, ’37, is one of
a team of four in the Evaluation

Section of Mutual Security, U. S.
Department of State, and there’s
hardly a spot on the globe he hasn’t
visited or flown over.

His “team,” composed of two
men from the State Department,
one from the Defense Department,
and one from the I.C.A., visits one
country at a time to study our mil-
itary and economic aid program
there. Is it effectively achieving our
foreign policy objectives? Are our
foreign policy objectives correct?
What needs to be done? The team
studies the country to be visited

for one month before traveling
there, spends a month to six weeks
in the country, and then returns to
Washington to prepare a report in
about one month. The report is
basically an evaluation of our aid
program and its effectiveness. It
is also a critique embodying recom-
mendations to be acted upon by
the responsible agency or depart-
ment within a given period of time.
This important program has
been in effect only a short time.
Dave has spent about sixteen
years abroad with the State Depart-
ment and four in Washington, with
such interesting assignments as two
years in Indonesia, two years in
Bermuda, a tour of duty in Lyons,
France, and Bremen, Germany.
During the past four years, during
his assignment to Washington,
places he has visited include Cura-
cao, British Guiana, Trinidad; sev-
eral of the islands of the Lesser and

Greater Antilles; Rome; Paris;
Honolulu; Tokyo; Hong Kong;
Taiwan; Korea; Germany, and
Barbados.

Dave is the father of two chil-
dren, a daughter who is a freshman
this year at the University of Colo-
rado, and a son at Washington-Lee
High School in Arlington. Address,
until August, when he expects to
be transferred overseas: 3848 30th
Street, North Arlington, Virginia.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

1941

COMMANDER C. B. Curtis, JR. is an at-
torney, Legislative Division, Office of
Legislative Affairs, Navy Department,
Washington 25, D.C.

‘THOMAS S. ‘TULEy, JR. is secretary of a
newly-formed wholesale distribution firm,
the Booker-Price Company, of Louisville,
Kentucky. The firm specializes in home
furnishings.

ALEXANDER SIMPSON, JR. is district sales
manager for Magnus Chemical Company.
His territory includes Northeastern Mas-
sachusetts, parts of New Hampshire and
all of Maine. He and his wife are the
parents of five children: Sandy, 13; Peter,
12; Ann, 10; Aili, 9; and Jane, 4. For the
past ten years they have lived in a
house built in the 1670's. Mr. Simpson
is a member of the town Planning Board,
president of the Band Boosters, and vice-
president of the Lynnfield Centre Couples’
Club.

Dr. JAMES F. NorTON is in the general
practice of medicine in East Aurora,
New York.

C. JUDSON PEARSON is now counsel of the
American Life Convention in Chicago.
He had been West Virginia’s Insurance
Commissioner since 1958, and had served
a term as municipal judge for St. Albans.
He has been active in the affairs of the
National Association of Insurance Com-
missioners, On Committees and as a mem-
ber of the executive committee.

Dr. Ropert E. LEE is president of two
worthy groups—the Georgia State college
for Women, and the Milledgeville (Geor-
gia) Rotary Club.

1942

GREEN RIvEs, JR. has been elected a mem-
ber of the board of directors of the First
National Bank in Mansfield, Louisiana.
He is treasurer of the Nabors Trailers
Company division of Sterling Precision
Corporation. He is past president of the
Chamber of Commerce, and is treasurer
of the Junior Chamber of Commerce in
Mansfield. Green has been president and
secretary-treasurer of DeSota General
Hospital, secretary of the Rotary club,
and a member of the Board of Stewards
of the Mansfield Methodist church.

EpcAR M. Boyp is a partner in a Balti-
more investment firm, and recently con-
ducted a forum, “Investments for a Busi-
ness Man” at the Business Management
Institute in Clarksburg, West Virginia.
The Institute is under the supervision
of Salem College.

BERTRAND KApis is developing land and
selling homesites in Westchester, Put-
man, and Dutchess counties, New York.
His firm does its own road work and
some construction of buildings. He and
his wife are the parents of three daugh-
ters.

SPRING 1961

Jack MALLory, JR. has moved his law
practice to Washington, D.C. He is now
associated with the firm of Cleary, Gott-
lieb, Steen and Hamilton.

PAUL C. ‘THOMAS, JR. is chief prepara-
tion engineer for John McCall Coal Com-
pany of Bluefield, West Virginia. He and
Mrs. ‘Thomas have four children ranging
from seventeen years to three years.

WALTER L. MONROE is not only in a real
estate partnership but a partnership in
men, women, and children apparel stores
in Millsboro, Delaware. He and his wife,
Thelma, have two sons and one daughter,
ranging from four years to nine years of
age. Walter, a member of the Board of
Stewards in the Methodist church, is also
a town commissioner, a Lion, and past
president of the Millsboro Chamber of
Commerce.

1943

BARTON W. Morris, JR. is one of three
new vice-presidents of the Roanoke
Times-World Corporation in Roanoke,
Virginia. Bart is executive editor of the
Times and World-News, and is also sec-
retary of the corporation.

JAMES W. WHEATER, since 1946, has been
teaching mathematics and coaching at
Hawthorne, New Jersey high school. At
present he is attending Montclair State
College on a National Science Foundation
grant. He and Mrs. Wheater have two
daughters and a son.

ALEXANDER M. MAISH is now a lieutenant
colonel, assigned to the Office of Chief
of Engineers, USA. He has twin boys,
Sandy and Freddy, five years old, and
a year-old daughter, Elizabeth.

Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR THOMPSON, JR.
adopted a daughter, Leslie Gaylord
‘Thompson, in July, 1960.

ALLEN H. LANE and wife, Barbara live
in Bartow, Florida, where he is practicing
with the law firm of Boswell and Lane.
The Lanes have a_ nine-year-old son,
Brent.

‘THOMAS C. WILSON, JR., Columbus branch
manager for Gray Audograph Company,
was presented the distinguished sales
award for 1960 by the National Sales
Executive Council recently.

1945

Harry H. OrGAIN, JR., is in the retail
building material business in Clarksville,
Tennessee. He and Mrs. Orgain are the
parents of two children, Nancy, twelve
years, and Hansi Del, nine.

Rosrert M. ANDREws, after four years as
a reporter on the Times-Dispatch in
Richmond, Virginia, is now on the staff of
the London bureau of United Press
International.

W. RoBerT GAINES has resigned as sup-
erintendent of the public schools at Gro-

ton, Connecticut, in order to return to
graduate study. The resignation becomes
effective July 1. Under his leadership, the
schools at Groton grew to meet a one
hundred percent increase in school popu-
lation.

E. DEAN FINNEY was a recent visitor to
the campus. Dean is President and Gen-
eral Manager of WITWN, St. Johnsbury,
Vermont, and WIKE, Newport, Ver-
mont.

F. W. KIieENDL is vice-president and gen-
eral sales manager of Arkell and Smith,
Forest Hills, New York.

1946

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK S. HOL-
LEY of Norfolk, Virginia, are the parents
of a son Frederick Sherman Holley, Jr.,
born on March 22, 1961.

RoBERT H. Gray is copy director of Mc-
Curry, Henderson, Enright, Incorporated,
a Norfolk, Virginia advertising agency. He
has worked in advertising and publish-
ing industries in Washington, D. C.,
where he headed his own agency, and in
New York City, where he served as sales
promotion manager for the Hotel Taft,
and assistant advertising manager for
the international corporation of Schenley
Industries. Bob is a veteran of World War
IT and the Korean war.

REX CRIMINALE is spending this year in
Europe. Address: Residencia de Profes-
sores, Pinar, 21, Madrid, Spain.

JAMEs A. OTTIGNON is employed by Texa-
co, Incorporated, at its Linden, New Jer-
sey, Sales Terminal. His position is Dis-
trict Sales Representative, Merchandising,
covering an eight-county area in Northern
New Jersey. Since graduation, he has
lived in Hackensack, New Jersey. He and
his wife have a son, Bill, ten years old,
and two sets of twin daughters, Jean and
June, eight, and Susan and Pat, four.
Jim is a deacon of the First Reformed
Church in Hackensack, and is committee-
man for Cub Pack 211, to which his son
belongs.

1947

LEE SILVERSTEIN is co-author of a new
book on the new system of civil procedure
in West Virginia, titled, “West Virginia
Rules.” Lee also co-authored a_ little
daughter, Clara Ann, born September
23, 1960.

RopertT E. L. BAKER is foreign corres-
pondent for the Washington Post and
Times Herald, based in London, England.
Address: The Guardian Building, 43 Fleet
Street, London.

1949

HAYDEN D. AustIN is assistant regional
counsel for the Small Business Adminis-
tration and lives in Denver, Colorado.

CHARLES TREADGOLD has moved office and

21

CLass NOTES

family to Omaha, Nebraska. He will be
assistant vice-president of the Central
National Group of Insurance Companies.

Hucu T. VERANO is manager of contracts,
Pomona, California, Division of Convair
Aircraft.

Joun A. Farr has been elected president
of the Madison County Bar Association,
Indiana. He is a member of the law firm
of Busby, Cooper, Davisson and Farr in
Anderson, Indiana.

THomMas R. Gtass is assistant general
manager of the Lynchburg Newspapers,
in Lynchburg, Virginia. He serves on the
advertising committee of the Southern
Newspaper Publishers Association, and
on the Legislative committee of the Vir-
ginia Press Association. Tom is a mem-
ber of the Virginia House of Delegates.

ROBERT W. SHARER is now a general part-
ner in the New York investment banking
firm of Hemphill, Noyes, and Company.
He is in charge of the firm’s sales-training
program, and supervises the branch of-
fice operation. He and his wife are the
parents of four children, Nancy, Holly,
Robert, and James, and live in Westfield,
New Jersey.

B. C. ALLEN, JR., is trust officer with the
North Carolina National Bank in Ra-
leigh. He and his wife, Jean, have two
sons, ages six and two years.

1950

JoHN S. CHAPMAN has successfully passed
the written portion of his board examina-
tion for internal medicine. The oral por-
tion will be taken in 1961. He and his
wife have three daughters and one son
and live in Dubuque, Iowa.

After active duty in the Korean war, JOE
H. Reese, JR., entered the insurance busi-
ness. He first qualified for the Million
Dollar Round Table in 1955 with the
National Association of Life Underwriters.
He is past president of Penn Mutual Life
Insurance Company’s chartered Life Un-
derwriters Society, and is president of the
Philadelphia chapter of the American
Society of Chartered Life Underwriters.
Last year, he became a partner with his
father in the firm of “Reese Consulting
Service’ in Jenkintown, Pennsylvania.

ROBERT W. SWINARTON is now a general
partner in the invesment firm of Dean
Witter and Company, of Beverly Hills,
California. He joined the company after
graduation and has been in the New
York office. He is a member of the Bond
Club of New York and the Municipal
Bond Club.

Ep CAMPBELL, sports editor of the News
and Courier, Charleston, South Carolina,
has been re-elected president of the South-

22

 

JAMES M. BALLENGEE, ’48, is general attor-
ney to the Eastern Territory of Sears,
Roebuck and Company, and assistant
secretary of the merchandising firm. He
has been with the company since 1957,
when he joined as an associate counsel in
charge of litigation. He and his wife, Jo,
have three children, and live at 632 Ar-
gyle Road in Wynnewood, Pennsylvania.

ern Conference Sports Writers Associa-
tion.

Ropert C. MAppox was named “Young
Man of the Year” by the Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce in Plainfield, New Jer-
sey, recently. He is serving a second term
as a member of the Common Council
there. For three years, he practiced with
the law firm of Bunker and Elliott, and
he is presently assistant counsel in the
Newark office of the Prudential Insur-
ance Company. He is a former president
of the Plainfield and Union County
Young Republican Clubs, and a former
member of the Republican City Com-
mittee in Plainfield. He and his wife,
Joanne, have two children.

J. Kyte Ho tey, Jr., has joined the Vol-
unteer State Life Insurance Company as
representative in the Chattanooga, Ten-
nessee, area. He was formerly associated
with the General Appliance Corporation
for ten years, five of which were as sales
manager for the corporation’s four Chat-
tanooga stores. He and his wife, Barbara,
are the parents of three children: Lyle,
III, five; Susan, three; and Barbara, elev-
en months.

After receiving his Ph.D. in Linguistics
from Brown University this spring. DON-
ALD D. Hook will become assistant
professor of modern laguages at ‘Trinity
College in September, 1961.

JAck Carper, former head of the News
Bureau at Washington and Lee, is now
city editor of the Roanoke Times in

Roanoke, Virginia. For the past few years,
Jack had served as managing editor of
the Orange, California, Daily News, which
was owned by Charles Voight, former
journalism professor here. The Daily
News won the award, “best in the State”
last year at a meeting of the California
Newspaper Publishers’ Association.

MARION G. ROBERTSON is minister of edu-
cation for Freemason Street Baptist
church in Norfolk, Virginia. He will be
ordained as a Baptist preacher shortly.
A graduate of Biblical Seminary in New
York, he is married to the former Delia
Elmer, and they have three children.

1951

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. LESTER I. LEVINE
are the parents of a fourth child, Amy,
born December 10, 1960. Lester is prac-
ticing law in Orlando, Florida, with of-
fices at 620 East Colonial Drive.

As one of nineteen recipients of the
Wythe Pediatric Fellowships, WILLIAM
PIERRE ROBERT, JR., is presently in pediat-
ric residency in Bellaire, Texas. The
Roberts have a son, Pierre, III, two and
a half years old and a daughter Renee,
one and a half years old.

DoNALD R. TAYLOR was winner of the Dis-
tinguished Service Award for the young
man of the year from Hampton Roads
Junior Chamber of Commerce. A teacher
of world history at Hampton High school,
Hampton, Virginia, he has written a his-
tory book on Hampton, “Out of the
Past...the Future,’ and served as co-
ordinator of the city of Hampton’s 350th
anniversary observance. He is recording
secretary of the Hampton Historical So-
ciety, vice-chairman of the First Con-
eregational Christian church board of
deacons, and a member of the Board of
Christian Education at Eastern Virginia
Conference of Congregational Christian
Churches.

‘Tuomas FE. Davis graduated in 1955 from

Maryland Medical School. Following his

 

Nostalgia may be served up ina
big dose to alumni of the ’30’s and
early ‘40's if they hear a tune in a
new album of old music by the late
great Hal Kemp and his orchestra.
The number is the “Washington
and Lee Swing,” contained in LPM
2041, “Great Dance Bands of the
30's and ’40’s,” issued by RCA
Victor. The Kemp band was a fre-
quent visitor for college dances in
Lexington, and many alumni will
remember hearing it play “The
Swing” in person.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

residency in Internal Medicine at the
University of Maryland Hospital, he en-
tered the Medical Corps of the U.S.
Army in July, 1960. He is now a captain
stationed at Walter Reed Institute of Re-
search in Washington, D.C.

CuHArLEs F. A. McCuuer, JRr., after three
years in Detroit, is now in private prac-
tice of Dermatology in Ft. Worth, ‘Texas.

THomas R. BENNETT has been named a
general partner by Courts and Company,
investment bankers and brokers, Atlanta,
Georgia. For the past four years, he has
been located in Charleston, South Caro-
lina, where he serves as resident partner.
He has been with the company for five
years.

W. E. DanieEL has been promoted to as-
sistant state director for Eastern Virginia
of the State Farm Insurance Company.
His headquarters is in Richmond. He
joined the company in 1950.

Doucias M. SMITH was appointed in Ap-
ril to succeed his father, ’18, as judge of
the Newport News Corporation Court,
Newport News, Virginia. The appoint-
ment, to take effect July 3, was made by
Virginia Governor Lindsey Almond on the
same day that Judge Herbert G. Smith’s
retirement was announced. At 31 years
of age, Douglas will be one of the young-
est judges in the state. Governor Almond
called him ‘an able lawyer, with high
ethical concept...a man_ of splendid
character.” Douglas received his law de-
gree at Washington and Lee in 1953. He
and his wife, Peggy, are the parents ot
three children, Susan, four years old;
Herbert G. II, three; and Douglas, Jr.,
one.

E. Gerry BARKER, IV, and Joz A. WAL-
LACE have formed a partnership to en-
gage in the general practice of law. ‘Their
firm of Wallace and Barker is located at
701-703 Kentucky Home Life Building
in Louisville, Kentucky.

Epwarp P. Bassetr is a member of the
faculty of the school of journalism at the
University of Iowa. He is also working
for his doctorate there.

W. Howarp ApDAMs is a man of many tal-
ents. A trustee of the Adams Family Trust
and president of the Adams Dairy Com-
pany, he also finds time to be vice-presi-
dent of the Board of Governors of the
Kansas City Art Institute. In addition, he
holds directorships of the Kansas City
Philharmonic Association, Missouri State
Historical Society, and the Midwest Re-
search Institute.

James H. Patron, IV, is associated with
Norris and Hirshberg, Incorporated, In-
vestment Broker-Dealers, as a registered
representative in Dalton, Georgia. Jim
is a deacon in the First Presbyterian
church there, and was chairman of the
1961 Easter Seal Drive. He and Ann are

SPRING 1961

the parents of three children, two boys
and a girl.

MERRITT ABRASH was recently in Jamaica,
B.W.I., for a family reunion which cele-
brated his parents’ forty-third wedding
anniversary. Merritt’s father is chairman
of the board of Business Factors Corpora-
tion of New York, and invited all his
children and grandchildren for the oc-
casion, a total of four families and twelve
children. Among the group was Dk.
MACEY ROSENTHAL, °41, brother-in-law to
Merritt.

PARK SMITH is now with the F. Mitchell
Johnson and Company securities firm in
Charleston, South Carolina, after five
years with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
and Smith. Park is a member of the
board of directors of the Charleston Ki-
wanis Club, is commodore of the South
Atlantic Yacht Racing Association, and is
a member of the Charleston Club, New
England Society, and the Carolina Yacht
Club. He and his wife, Jeanne, have two
sons, and live at 112 Tradd Street.

RoperT H. Frevps has joined the law firm
of White, Lewis, Pfau and Cohen, in
Indianapolis, Indiana. He served for five
years aS a special agent for the Federal
Bureau of Investigation. He is a former
deputy attorney general in charge of
state highway condemnation actions. Ad-
dress: 7420 Griffith Road, Indianapolis.

W. VANCE RUCKER of Greensboro, North
Carolina is administrative manager of
the Purchasing Department of Burlington
Industries. He has two sons, Kirk, 10, and
Johnny, 8. After moving around quite
a bit with the company, he hopes they are
settled in Greensboro, which is a lovely
city.

OLIVER ‘T. CARTER has been appointed
district plant manager at Portsmouth,
Virginia, for the Chesapeake and Potomac
Telephone Company. He was formerly
district plant manager in Lynchburg.

Dr. B. Voss NEAL finishes his residency
in dermatology at the University of Vir-
ginia in June and plans to practice in
Newport News, Virginia.

1952

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM EDWARD
GLADSTONE are the parents of a son, Lee
Geoffrey, born Friday the thirteenth of
January, 1961, in Miami, Florida.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. SuM-
MERS, JR., are the parents of a second son,
Timothy Frederick, born March 10, 1961.
Frank and his law partner, THOMAS R.
NELSON, ‘25, merged on January 1 with
Richard F. McPherson under the firm
name of Nelson, McPherson and Sum-
mers in Staunton, Virginia.

Davin CLARK, IV, is assistant vice-presi-
dent of Seaboard Citizens National Bank
in Norfolk, Virginia. He manages the
Wards Corner office of the bank. He com-
pleted four years of Navy service in 1957,

 

Because the 1961 anniversary
class reunions took place just at
press time, we will cover this
event in the summer issue of the
magazine. Look, too, for news
and pictures of Commencement
plus lots of class notes about
your friends.

 

 

 

and then joined the bank. He is married
to the former Jane Black of Norfolk.

JAMEs J. WALSH is a practicing attorney
in Scranton, Pennsylvania, with the firm
of Walsh and Longo. He is treasurer of
the Young Democrat Clubs of Pennsyl-
vania, and is a member of the Scranton
school board.

RAYMOND W. HAMAN has been on tempo-
rary leave of absence to serve as legal
counsel to the Republican caucus in the
Washington State House of Representa-
tives during the 1961 biennial session.

WILLIAM G. FuQUA is city attorney of
Russellville, Kentucky. He returned in
1959 from two years spent with the Army
Intelligence in Cognac, France. He and
his wife, Marcia, have two daughters:
Renee, two years old and born in France,
and Anne, one year old.

RICHARD Q. CALVELLI is Engineering Edi-
tor for the College Department of D. Van
Nostrand Company, Inc., educational
textbook publishers, with offices in Prince-
ton, New Jersey.

‘THE REVEREND LESLIE 'T. WEST, JR., is
pastor of the Presbyterian church in
Romney, West Virginia. In 1955, he was
married to Voncille Hollowell, sister of
O. W. HOLLOWELL, 53, and in 1958, he
was graduated from Union Theological
Seminary in Richmond, Virginia. He had
one year of post-graduate study, 1958-59,
at New College, Edinburgh, Scotland. He
and his wife are the parents of two sons,
Leslie, III, age four and a half years; and
Bruce Stewart, one and a half.

W. J. KENNETH ROCKWELL was sent by
Duke Medical School to finish his studies
at St. Thomas’ Hospital, London. He was
graduated in January, 1961, and then
toured Europe, playing in a_ tennis
tournament at Monte Carlo in late March,
then traveling in France and Western
Europe until he returns home in June
to take his North Carolina State Medical
Board examination.

LAMAR WINEGEART, JR., has been named
by the governor of Florida to serve a two-
year term as judge of Duval County
Juvenile Court, Jacksonville.. Lamar is
a member of St. Catherine’s Episcopal
church and served as senior warden in
1960. He is a member of the board of di-
rectors of the YMCA and the Fellowship

23

CLASS NOTES

of Christian Athletes. He and his wife are
the parents of three children, Lamar, III,
eight years old; Elizabeth, five; and James,
one.

FRANK BARRON, JR., won the “Young Man
of the Year” award of the Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce in Rome, Georgia.
Frank is director of the Rome Coca-Cola
Bottling Company, director of the Rome
Boys Club and the Rome Rotary Club,
district layman for the First Baptist
church, teaches a class of junior boys
at the First Baptist Sunday School, 1959
Floyd County chairman of the U.S. Sav-
ings Bond campaign, former secretary of
the Junior Chamber and chairman of its
Broom Sale project. He and his wife, the
former Rebekah Anne West, have two
children, Frank, III, and Rebekah Vance.
Address: 212 Sherwood Road, Rome.

GEORGE W. H. PIERSON is practicing law
in Baltimore. He is Group Representa-
tive for the Sun Life Insurance of Can-
ada, and _ vice-president of the Globe
Building and Savings Association. He is
active in Democratic party politics and
serves as Executive Committeeman for
Baltimore County. He served as a first
lieutenant in the Air Force Judge Ad-
vocate General. George and his wife, Bet-
ty, have one daughter, Laura Nina, aged
five years. Address: 300 Old Trail, Balti-
more 12.

S. FINLEY EwInG, JR., is now president
and principal partner of Orand Buick
Company in Dallas, Texas, one of the
largest Buick dealerships in the South-
west. He joined the company in_ 1956,
and was made a partner several months
before the death of the recent president,
J. B. Orand. The firm is housed in a
large modern plant at 2128 Cedar Springs,
built shortly after the close of World
War II.

Lr. Ropert F. CONNALLY, USN, is the
executive officer of the USS Waldo Coun-
ty (LST 1163). He was formerly stationed
aboard the heavy cruiser USS Bremerton
as the AA Control and Secondary Battery
Officer. He is married to the former Ro-
berta Winters of Long Beach, California,
and they have one son, Robert Lee, born
January 7, 1960. Address: USS Waldo
County (LST 1163), Fleet Post Office, New
York, N.Y.

WILLIAM H. LEEpy has been appointed by
Governor J. M. Dalton as a member of
the Police Board of Kansas City, Mis-
souri. Bill will serve a four-year term. He
is a partner in the law firm of Lathrop,
Righter, Gordon and Parker in Kansas
City, and specializes in federal taxation.
He and his wife are the parents of a
six-months’ old daughter, Mildred Hud-
son. Address: 6220 Valley Road, Kansas
City.

24

1953

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ‘Tyson JANNEY are
the parents of a daughter, Joyce Saville,
born January 26, 10961.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN B. KINKEAD
are the parents of a daughter, Laura, born
June 28, 1960.

Following graduation from Washington
and Lee, KENNETH SPENCE, JR., got a med-
ical degree from the University of Mary-
land in 1957. After internship at Naval
Hospital in’ Bethesda, Dr. Spence has
completed three years residency in or-
theopedics at the same hospital. Beginning
July 1, 1961, under auspices of the U.S.
Navy, he begins residency at the J. L.
Kernan Hospital for Crippled Children
in Baltimore. Dr. and Mrs. Spence have
three sons, ages six, three, and one.

NATHAN SALKY is presently a Fellow in
Cardiology at the University of ‘Tennessee
Medical College in Memphis. He plans to
enter practice in Qctober, 1961, in his
specialty—internal medicine and cardiol-

ogy.

Rosert L. BANSE was appointed in Febru-
ary as counsel to the Merck, Sharp and
Dohme Division of Merck and Company,
Inc. His home address is 116 West Ever-
green Avenue, Philadelphia 18, Penn-
sylvania.

C. T. DAWKINS, JR., is in the construction
business in ‘Tampa, Florida. He and _ his
wife, the former Joann Deau, have two
sons, ages six and three years.

1954

MARRIED: OveERTON P. POLLARD was
married October 1, 1960, to Ann A. Meyer.
They live in Waynesboro, Virginia,
where Overton is a claims adjustor with
Travelers Insurance Company.

+

BORN: ‘THE REVEREND and Mkrs._ f.
FLETCHER LOWE, JR., are the parents of
a son, born February 8, 1961. Fletcher is
vicar of the Church of the Ascension,
Seneca, South Carolina, and of St. Paul’s
church, Pendleton, South Carolina.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT PARTRIDGE
SMITH, JR., are the parents of a son, Todd
Carper, born on January 20, 1961.

Entering University of Pennsylvania’s
eraduate school of medicine in 1960, WIL-
LIAM C. WILLIAMS will graduate in Ortho-
dontics in January, 1962. He expects to
return to Virginia to practice. He and
Mrs. Williams have two children.

WALTER W. DicGs is an administrative as-
sistant at Johns Hopkins, working specifi-
cally in out patient department and ad-
ministrative research.

Since his graduation from Washington
and Lee, ALBERT JOHN PERRY has com-
pleted work toward a master’s degree in
geology at the University of Colorado. He

was employed by the New Jersey Zinc
Company from 1956-58, and is now asso-
ciated with Union Carbide Nuclear Com-
pany in Grand Junction, Colorado, as an
exploration geologist.

GEORGE H. GREER and his wife were re-
cent visitors to the campus. They are
the parents of a new son, George Jr.. born
February 4, 1961.

For the past several years, G. B. WERTHAN
has been technical salesman and assistant
to the first vice-president of Knowlton
Brothers, Incorporated. The Watertown,
New York, firm is a manufacturer of spe-
cial industrial and technical papers.

JOHN E. MCDONALD is general manager of
United Glazed Products, Incorporated, a
newly established subsidiary of the Burns
and Russell Company of Baltimore, Mary-
land. The McDonalds have three children,
John, Jr., three and a half; Libby, two;
and David, one.

PAUL MASLANSKY has been wandering
over Europe for the past eighteen months.
He has formed a small television shoot-
ing company, and is producing documen-
tary films for European and American
TV markets. He reported that he survived
some rather rough months in Paris by
playing his beat-up cornet in Parisian
caves. He has seen JIM CoNNors and Bos
McGEEHAN among others during his peri-
patetics. Address: Vesterfaelledvej] 4, care
of Lund, Kobenhavn, Denmark.

Otr LAuGHLIN, III, is teaching reading
and science at Linsly Military Institute
in Wheeling, West Virginia.

After leaving law practice in Kansas City,
CARL SWANSON has given his full time to
Episcopal church work. He was chaplain
and counselor at the Jamestown, North
Dakota, Alcoholism Treatment Center for
eight months, and is now at the Episco-
pal Seminary in Sewanee, ‘Tennessee.

Dr. Harry C. SHERMAN is in a five-year
surgical residency program at the Medical
College of Georgia.

RopErt O. GLASIER, since September, 1959,
has been employed as market research
and analysis specialist in France and
Germany for the office of Graham Parker,
a New York technical and industrial con-
sulting firm. He and his wife, Veronique,
are the parents of two sons, Philip and
Cedric. Address: Grimmstrasse 34, Dussel-
dorf, Germany.

JouHN M. BLUME practices law in Newark,
New Jersey, as a partner in the firm of
Blume and Blume. He is married to the
former Judith Sussman of Westfield, New
Jersey.

Remp EvANS BAKER is instructor in French,
and language laboratory director at the
University of Vermont. He spent two years
in army service after his graduation, then
went to Middlebury College Graduate
School of French for his master’s degree
in 1958.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

James A. FREEDMAN is a buyer for Joseph
Horne Company in Pittsburgh, Pennsyl-
vania. He and his wife are the parents
cf two children, a son, Mark; and a
daughter, Adrienne Beth.

1955

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD JAMES
MAcK are parents of a daughter, Randi
Lee, born March 24, 1961. Address: 20
Brookhill Avenue, Highland Park, New
jersey.

Joun Faison is trust officer for the Citi-
zens and Southern National Bank of
South Carolina in Columbia. He _ has
twins, a boy and a girl, and an older
daughter. Mrs. Faison died when the
twins were born.

ANDREW A. PAYNE, JR., Was recently elect-
ed an assistant cashier of the Charleston
National Bank in Charleston, West Vir-
ginia. He has been with the bank since
1958, and is now in the consumer credit

department.

After graduating in 1957 from the Uni-
versity of Colorado with a master’s degree
in geology, J. Scorr Laurent joined the
Standard Oil of California, as a petroleum
geologist. Currently the Scotts, with their
two children, are moving around the
Rocky Mountain area with a geophysical
seismic crew.

Dr. Watson A. BowEs, JR., 1s resident in
general practice at Colorado University
Medical Center in Denver, Colorado.

RoLanp C. Davies, Jr., attended the
School of Architecture of the University
of Virginia for three years. At present,
he is at the Graduate School of Fine
Arts of the University of Pennsylvania.
His home address is 3831 Walnut Street,
Philadelphia. He was married on Decem-
ber 27, 1960, to Margaret C. Walsh.

HaroLp JAY BLACKsIN is chief costing en-
gineer for the Kenrose Manufacturing
Company of New York City, a women’s
apparel concern. He and his wife, Evelyn,
live at 3165 Nostrand Avenue, Brooklyn.

CorBIN Woopwarb is a lieutenant in the
Navy Supply Corps, stationed at the
Navy Finance Center in Cleveland, Ohio.
He is a 1956 graduate of the Naval
Academy at Annapolis, and has served
aboard the USS Staten Island, an_ ice
breaker, and the destroyer, USS Stormes.
He and his wife have one daughter, Jean-
nie, one year old.

C. Kk. Stick, after graduate work in history
and a year as assistant in the department
of history at the University of Maine,
has recently been named Director of
students and history instructor at Kim-
ball Union Academy in New Hampshire.

WILLIAM H. Forrest, JR., spent two years
in the Army Transportation Corps after
eraduation. Upon discharge, he entered
the field of residential contracting. He has

SPRING 1961

recently accepted a position as secretary-
treasurer of Pompei Tile Company, tile
and marble contractors in Newport News,
Virginia. He and his wife are the par-
ents of a two-year-old daughter, Lynn
Marie. Address: 15 Quillen Terrace, New-
port News.

Jerry W. FEE served as reading clerk in
the Ohio House of Representatives this
year. He studied for three years at Ox-
ford University in England on a Ful-
bright scholarship, and got his B. Litt.
degree in international relations. He
hopes to enter Ohio politics before long.

WILEY W. SPURGEON, JR., of Muncie, In-
diana, is still City Editor of The Muncie
Star and also publisher of the Syracuse-
Wawasee Journal at Syracuse, Indiana.

Back at Duke Medical School on a fel-
lowship, Dr. THomas W. Ropsins, JR., is
doing research work in thoracic surgery,
dealing in extra corporeal circulation and
hypothermia in the laboratory with Dr.
Ivan Browns. The Robbins have two
daughters.

CarL D. Bott is now baseball coach and
assistant football coach at Emory and
Henry College in Virginia.

1956

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. DUNCAN McCarTHy
are the parents of a daughter, Mary Ann,
born February 19, 1951. Duncan was Sta-
tioned in Bermuda while on duty with
the Naval Reserve, and married Dudley
Trentham of Somerset, Bermuda, on
September 24, 1959. He has now re-
turned to Orlando, Florida, to become ad-
vertising manager of the Corner Cup-
board, a weekly newspaper which won the
1961 Florida Press Association sweepstakes
award. E. E. McCartny, ’31, is editor and
publisher of the paper. Duncan’s address:
Box 1219, Orlando, Florida.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR W. Mc-
CAIN, JRr., are the parents of a son, Robert,
born February 20, 1961.

BORN: Mk. and Mrs. ELLIs B. Drew, Jr.,
are the parents of a son, Samuel William,
born February 25, 1961. Their other son,
Ellis, III, is two years old.

WILLIAM A. HENLEY has recently been
transferred by his company, Lehigh Port-
land Cement Company, to its Birming-
ham, Alabama, Office.

After completing a Navy tour of duty
in 1959, ALFRED O. JONES, JR., is back in
graduate work at the University of Cali-
fornia, where he is studying toward a
degree as Doctor of Veterinary Medicine.
He is president of his class.

Joun M. EL.is is to graduate in June
from the school of architectural design
at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
He has studied also at Pratt Institute
and at University of Pennsylvania, and

has worked in architectural offices in
Bangor, Houston, New Orleans, and
Philadelphia. Last summer, John won a
Student Merit Award in a national com-
petition for the design of an educational
and recreational complex for a communi-
ty of 25,000 persons. John is still a bache-
lor.

Dr. MicHaEL R. DuBIN was graduated
from the School of Medicine at Univer-
sity of Virginia in 1960, and is complet-
ing his internship at St. Luke’s Hospital,
New York City. He will remain at St.
Luke’s as an assistant resident in In-
ternal Medicine.

JorL BENNETT was recently elected vice-
president and assistant general manager

of the St. Joseph Stock Yards Company

in Missouri. Joel is also secretary of the
Interstate Baby Beef and Pig Club Show.
He handles traffic problems of the com-
pany, and assists in management of the
yards. He and his wife are the parents
of three sons, and live at 3113 Gene Field
Road, St. Joseph, Missouri.

GorpON GoocH has won an appointment
as law clerk to Chief Justice Earl War-
ren, and he and his wife, Patricia, will
move to Washington in July for the one-
year term. Gordon is a senior law stu-
dent at the University of Texas. He has
won many honors while there, including
editorship of the Texas Law Review, elec-
tion as a Chancellor, and an award as one
of the four best writers for the Law Re-
view.

Lr. Bruce M. FREDERICK, stationed with
the army in Pirmasens, Germany, since
June, 1958, is returning to this country
this spring. He and his wife, the former
Elizabeth Ann Stegall of ‘Thomasville,
Georgia, are the parents of one son,
Bruce, Jr., who is a little over one year
old.

Dr. JASPER B. BECKER, JR., is serving his
internship at Charity Hospital in New
Orleans, Louisiana. He will begin a four-
year residency in urology at Ochsner
Foundation Hospital in July.

CHARLES C. WATSON is currently making
his second deployment to the Sixth Fleet
in the Mediterranean, aboard the USS
Forrestal. He is engaged to Augusta
Richards of Winchester, Virginia, and
the wedding is planned for the fall.

A. Moopy Burt is presently the rector of
Christ Episcopal church in Raleigh, North
Carolina.

ARISTIDES C. ALEVIZATOS was graduated
last June from the University of Mary-
land Medical school, and then married
Dee Austin of Baltimore that same month.
He is now interning at Mercy Hospital
in Baltimore. In June, he will return to
the University of Maryland Hospital to
begin his residency in medicine. Address:
6313 Holly Lane, Baltimore 12, Mary-
land.

25

CLass NotTes

1957

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. KENDALL C. JONES
are the parents of a daughter, Kimberly
Rawlings, born February 8, 1961. Kendall,
Jv., is now three and a half years old. Ad-
dress: g005 Farmington Drive, Richmond,
Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Ropert C. TOLLE
are the parents of a son, Geoffrey Lee,
born June 18, 1960.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN T. EVANS, JR.,
are the parents of a son, Jeffrey Cromwell,
born October 4, 1960.

STEPHEN M. EnupIn received his law de-
gree from the University of Maryland in
1960, and then served six months’ active
duty in the U.S. Army Intelligence
School. He is now a member of the law
firm of Ehudin, Orwan, and Ehudin,
Baltimore, Maryland. He was married in
December 22, 1960, to Marilyn Reicher.

H. MERRILL PLAISTED, III, won the Jaycee
SPOKE award from the Richmond, Vir-
ginia, Junior Chamber of Commerce re-
cently. The award was made for Merrill’s
outstanding work as a first-year member.

EUGENE KEITH is due to graduate in Tune
from the Rutgers University School of
Law. He is engaged to Anne Coyne of
East Orange, New Jersey.

CHARLES P. LEININGER, III, is associated
with the accountant and auditing firm of
Arthur Anderson and Company, Cleve-
land, Ohio.

Now attending Johns Hopkins graduate
school, Ross H. BAYARD received his mas-
ter’s degree in European History from the
University of South Carolina in August,
1960.

NEAL LAVELLE was graduated from the
Law School at Western Reserve Univer-
sity in Cleveland. He was admitted to the
Ohio Bar in 1960 and is now in the gen-
eral practice of law.

CHARLES M. Drum is in his second year
of graduate study in physics at the Uni-
versity of Virginia. He and his wife, the
former Laura Clausen, have a young
daughter, born February 1, 1061.

ROBERT CURREN was recently admitted to
the Delaware County (Pennsylvania) Bar,
presented to the court by his father,
Thomas A. Curren, a county judge.

RopertT H. LarceE, recently released from
active Navy duty, is now undergoing a
training program at First and Merchants
National Bank in Richmond, Virginia.

MICHAEL S. JOHNSON is associated with
Buell Mullen, internationally known
mural painter specializing in stainless

26

steel murals. Their recent work is in the
lobby of the American Chemical Society
Building at 16th and M Streets, Wash-
ington, D.C. Their murals are also in the
Western Electric Building, Broadway and
Fulton Streets, New York City.

WALTER CREMIN, JR., is the State Farm
Insurance Company claim representative
in San Angelo, Texas.

1958

MARRIED: HENRIK WANSCHER and
Merete Bang were married on February
11, 1961. Henrik finished law school last
June, and is now a secretary at the Danish
Ministry of Agriculture. Address: God-
thaabsvej] 95, Copenhagen F, Denmark

MARRIED: Witu1AM KELLY YouNns and
Roberta Dianne Frank were married Feb-
ruary 14, 1961, in St. Ann’s Catholic
church in Houston, Texas. They took a
honeymoon trip to the Bahamas and
South America. Address: 4500 Westridge,
Fort Worth, Texas.

BORN: Lt. and Mrs. GrorcE SAcE Lyons,
are the parents of a son, George Sage, Jr..
born March 1. 1961. Daddy was gradu-
ated from the University of Alabama
Law School in January, 1960, and is now
serving as a first lieutenant in the Judge
Advocate General’s Corps at Fort Ben-
ning, Georgia. Mrs. Lyons is the former
Elsie Crain of Guntersville, Alabama.

IRA SAMELSON, JR., is now with the sales
department of Ideal Chemical and Sup-
ply Company in Memphis, after serving
six months in the Army Finance Corps.

AVERY JUHRING is in Europe for an eight
months’ tour over most of the continent.

MERRILL C. TRADER is practicing law in
Dover, Delaware, where he is associated
with Harold Schmittinger.

NORMAN P. PROULX, after passing the CPA
examination in May, 1959, is practicing
with the accounting firm of Bogue, Lee,
Compton and Vass of St. Petersburg and
‘Tampa, Florida.

JAMES V. KRESsSLER has been appointed
events director for the Mondawmin Shop-
ping Center in Baltimore, Maryland. He
will plan and execute promotions for
the Center.

ROBERT A. RICHARDS, a licensed custom
broker, is vice-president of the firm of
Frederick Richards, Incorporated, in
Charleston, South Carolina. He is mar-
ried to the former Linda French Hewitt.

Ropert L. RHEA served as chairman of
the Staunton and Augusta county (Vir-
ginia) 1961 Cancer Crusade. He is a mem-
ber of the bar, and the father of two
children, ages four years and_ eight
months.

1959

MARRIED: HENRY BOARDMAN STEWART,

If, and Lillian Gordon Campbell were
married on March 1g, 1961, at the First
Presbyterian Church in Franklin, Tennes-
see.

MARRIED: CHARLES WALTER COLE, Jr.,
and Mary Bartlett Riggs were married
on March 25, 1961. They reside at 1020
Rolandvue Road, Ruxton, 4, Maryland.

PHitip ARTHUR REIDFORD has been in
Europe nearly two years. He attended the
Sorbonne University in Paris, and subse-
quently has been working for the British
Committee of the Danilo Dolci Founda-
tion in Sicily.

Roserr B. Levy is attending night classes
at the University of Maryland Law School.
He is employed by the Union Trust Com-
pany of Maryland.

E. D. “Corky” Briscor is in his second
year of law school at the University of
Louisville. He is also working in the
office of the Commonwealth’s Attorney.

Royce Houcu will receive his M.B.A.
degree from Cornell Graduate School of
Business and Public Administration in
June. He and his wife Harriet, are the
proud parents of a son, Michael, born
February 2, 1961.

Davin G. GLENDY, now teaching biology
and general science at William Byrd High
school in Vinton, Virginia, is also work-
ing toward his master’s in guidance
during summers at the University of
Virginia.

FREDERICK Harry NEWTON is a field rep-
resentative for the College Division of
Prentice-Hall, Incorporated, a book pub-
lishing firm. His sales area is central
Pennsylvania, and he lives in Bethlehem.

THOMAS R. GOWENLOCK, Ill, completed
his army service in January, 1960, and
is now in the Trust department of the
Northern Trust Company of Chicago. He
is a member of the Bath and Tennis Club
of Lake Forest, the Racquet Club of Chi-
cago, and the Society of Colonial Wars.
Address: 1550 North State Parkway,
Chicago.

Lt. RICHARD FENNER Cummins is now back
at Fort Eustis, Virginia, after spending
eight months at Goose Bay, Labrador. His
tour of duty is up in November.

JERE H. Wititams is employed by the
Blue Ridge Council of the National Coun-
cil of Boy Scouts of America as District
Scout Executive and resides at Hillcrest
Drive, Rocky Mount, Virginia.

1960

MARRIED: Tuomas C. KERN and Naomi
Dixon were married on February 4, 1961.

MARRIED: Fred Fox BENTON, Jr., and
Lizinka Mosley were married on Febru-
ary 4, 1961, in St. George’s Episcopal

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Church, Nashville, Tennessee. They live
at 9413 Montrose Court, El Paso, ‘Texas.

MARRIED: GorDdON ELLIOTT ROUNTREE
and Laurice Lee Wickersham were mar-
ried on December 30, 1961, in Riverside
Park Methodist church, Jacksonville,
Florida. Among the groomsmen were JACK
GRONER, 60; and WALTER GORDON ‘THOMP-
son, 60. The Rountrees are living at Fort
Benning Georgia, where he is serving as
second lieutenant in the Army.

MARRIED: CHARLES CARROLL SHERRILL
and Amelia Brockman McKinnon were
married February 4, 1961, in the First
Baptist Church, Troy, Alabama.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JosePpH P. CAMP-
BELL are the parents of a daughter, Shar-
on Moira, born February 2, 1961. Dad is
currently Night Editor and Pentagon cor-
respondent for the Mutual Broadcasting
System in Washington, D.C. Address:
“Buckland,” Gainesville, Virginia.

RANDOLPH B. K1LMon began his two years
active duty with the army on March 3.
He is in OCS at the Air Defense School
at Fort Bliss, ‘Texas.

JouN JorDAN HAuNn was graduated from
from Officers’ Candidate School at New-
port, Rhode Island, in March, and com-
missioned as an Ensign in the USNR. He
is now serving aboard the USS Catamount,
LSD-17, for overseas duty in the Sev-
enth Fleet. Address: S. S. Catamount,
LSD-17, F.P.O., San Francisco, California.

ENsIGN Howarpb C. WOLF, JR., is stationed
at the Naval Supply Corps School in
Athens, Georgia.

Lr. CuristopHER Hurcuins completed the
missile officer orientation course at Fort
Bliss, Texas, in January. He entered the
army last October.

ROBERT FRANKLIN JONES is employed by
the Wicomico Board of Education in Salis-
bury, Maryland, as a French teacher on
television, WBOC-TYV.

LIEUTENANT CHARLES G. BurFruM, III, is
stationed at the Air Defense School at
Fort Bliss, Texas, with the Sixth Artil-
lery Group. He expects a tour of duty
there of approximately two vears.

ENSIGN WILLOUGHBY NEWTON is assigned
to the U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Ever-
ereen, (WAGL 295), with home port in
Boston, Massachusetts. The cutter left on
International Ice Patrol the end of March.

WILLIAM J. HAtey is in the Judge Advo-
cate General offices of the Air Force in
Great Falls, Montana. Upon his release in
July, 1963, he expects to practice law in
Florida.

G. E. Vit_EroT, Jr., is working for the
Music Corporation of America as sales-
man and producer of industrial shows.
His travels enable him to see many of
his classmates.

SPRING 1961

CuirForD D. MITCHELL has graduated from
Navy OCS and is now at Navy Supply
Corps School. In July, he will be given
sea duty.

JAmes B. Ducketr is in his first year as a
medical student at Baylor University
Medical School in Houston, ‘Texas.

JoHN Hopkins and PAvuL PLAWIN are
working as reporters on Norfolk, Virginia,
newspapers.

Britt LOEFFLER is a_ traveling counselor
for Pi Kappa Phi fraternity.

Mike Poor is doing public relations
work in Vancouver, British Columbia.

E. Perer Lirron is working for Atlas Con-
crete, Incorporated, in Bristol, Virginia.

FRANK S. GLASER has finished two quarters
at Stanford Graduate School of Business
and is planning to specialize in Finance.
He is enrolled in the advanced ROTC
program and will attend summer camp
at Fort Lewis, Washington, this summer.

At Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute under
the three-two cooperative plan for en-
gineering, JAMES RANDOLPH HICKMAN
will get both degrees this year—a_ bachel-
or’s degree from Washington and Lee
and an engineering degree from Rens-
selaer.

Among campus visitors for Fancy Dress
ball in February was F. B. “Buzzir” GrRiF-
FIN. He is presently in the graduate school
of business administration at the Un1-
versity of ‘Texas, where he is specializing
in accounting.

A. Pres Rowe, assistant director of the
Information Services at Washington and
Lee, is taking a leave of absence to serve
with Uncle Sam at Fort Knox, Kentucky,
this spring and summer. He will return
to Lexington in September, and plans
to bring a bride with him then.

1962

MARRIED: Dorst HARLAND HAGLER and
Lynn Anderson were married August 27,
1960, and are living in Columbia, Mis-
souri where Dorse is a law student at the
University of Missouri.

 

1886

JAMES WILLIAM ANDERSON died November
5, 1960, in Knoxville, ‘Tennessee. He spent
most of his active career as a civil en-

gineer in railroad construction in Central
and South America. He retired in 1930,
and went to Knoxville to make his home
with a niece.

1899

WASHINGTON Lorinc LEE died July 10,
1960. His home was in Sumter, South
Carolina, and he was 84 years old at the
time of his death.

1905

DANIEL CHAMBERS MILLER died December
27, 1960. He was a Professional Engineer
and had taught Civil Engineering at
Sewanee, University of Michigan, Texas
A. and M., and Caltech. He had lived in
Paradena, California, for the past forty-
one years, and was the owner of Reed-
Miller Sporting Goods store for twenty-
two years. He is survived by his wife, two
daughters, and seven grandchildren.

ROBERT WELTON BAKER died April 9, 1961.
He was an atorney, a former mayor of
Petersburg, West Virginia, for twelve
years. He served as a director of Grant
County Bank and a member of the Peters-
burg Presbyterian church board of dea-
cons. He held memberships in the West
Virginia State Bar Association and Moore-
field Chapter AF and AM ag. He was an
attorney for the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad. Mr. Baker was the last surviv-
ing member of one of Grant County’s
oldest families.

1907

Dr. WALDO BERNIE NEWELL of Enid, Okla-
homa, died October 17, 1960. He was a
medical doctor and surgeon, and had
practiced in Enid since 1919. He served
as a first lieutenant in the medical corps
during the First World War.

1908

]. 1. Vatpcett,. [r., died on January 16,
1961. He was a retired attorney, and went
to Doctor’s Inlet, Florida, to live. ‘There
he engaged in growing gladioli, narcis-
sus, registered MHerefords, and _ citrus
fruit. He spent several months each year
at his farm near Shepherdstown, West
Virginia. In his will, he left a sum of
money for student aid at Washington
and Lee.

HENRY RICHARD MAHLER died on Feb-
ruary 13, 1961. His home was in Newport
News, Virginia, where he had retired
after serving for many years as superin-
tendent of the Thomasville City Schools
in ‘Thomasville, Georgia. He was the
author of a number of educational ar-
ticles published in the National Educa-
tion Journal, Southern Association Quar-
terly, and others.

1910

JosEPpH TALBOT PENTON died in December,
1960. His home was in Los Angeles, Coli-
fornia.

27

1911

W. A. Reip died March ag, 1961, in West
Palm Beach, Florida. He was president of
the First National Bank cf ‘Troutville,
Virginia, and was a 41-year employee of
the bank. He was one of the organizers
of the Botetourt Chamber cf Commerce,
and helped develop the Virginia Pure-
bred Livestock Pavilion near Hollins. He
served six years on the Botetourt County
Board of Supervisors, and also served as
district chairman of the Virginia Bank-
ers’ Association.

WILBUR CAMDEN ARMENTROUT died Febru-
ary 14, 1961. He was district manager for
the Equitable Life Assurance Society for
thirty-five years. He served in World
War I as a member of the 322nd Field
Artillery and was a member of the
American Legion, Veterans of Foreign
Wars and Disabled American Veterans of
Elkins, West Virginia.

1912

HANNIBAL ELLIS POTTER died March 31,
1961. An attorney, he was a partner in
the firm of Moorshead, Potter and Dceerr
in Philadelphia. He served in the British
tank corps during the first World War.
He was a member of the First Presbyteri-
an church of Lansdowne, the James Wil-
son Law Club, and the Llanerch Country
Club.

1913

STUART Moore died March 10, 1961, of a
heart attack following an operation. He
was an outstanding lawyer, banker and
civic leader in Lexington. During his
long career of service, he had been a
member of the town council; town school
board; president of the Stonewall Jack-
son Hospital for five years; a member of
the board of deacons of Lexington Pres-
byterian church for twenty-five years,
an elder for eight years; vice-president
of the Rockbridge National Bank, and
a member of the board of directors for
thirty-two years. He was the first judge
of the Rockbridge Juvenile and Domestic
Relations Court and also served three
years as judge of the trial justice court.
He served as a commissioner in chancery,
a jury commissioner, and as examiner of
records for the Eighteenth Judicial Cir-
cuit. He helped organize the Lexington
Chamber of Commerce, and was _ co-
chairman of the first big wartime Red
Cross campaign in Lexington in World
War II. Survivors include his widow; a
son, Stuart, Jr., a senior at Union Theo-
logical Seminary, and Louise, law, libra-
rian at Washington and Lee. |

1915

‘TAYLOR H. STuKEs died February 20, 1961,
after surgery to replace a section of aorta
to his heart. He had suffered from multi-
ple aneurysms of the aorta. He had been

28

a member of the state Supreme Court of
South Carolina’ since 1940, and _ had
served as chief justice for five years. He
had been a member of the state Demo-
cratic Executive Committee from 1926-
40, and its chairman from 1938-40. He
had served in the House of Representa-
tives for three years, and as a state sena-
tor from 1927-40.

1917

ALFRED CAMPBELL SLEMP died November
30, 1960. His home was in Olinger, Vir-
ginia.

1920

EcHots ALCoTT HANSBARGER died March
8, 1961, after a heart attack. He prac-
ticed law in Williamson, West Virginia,
until 1933, when he joined the State Tax
Department. At the time of his death, he
was a member of the West Virginia Em-
ploment Security Board of Review. A vet-
eran of World War I, he was a member
of deacons of Ruffner Memorial Presby-
terian church, Peterstown Masonic Blue
Lodge, York Rite Bodies, Beni Kedem
Temple, and the West Virginia Bar As-
sociation.

Dr. JOHN J. Grorcr died February 28,
1961, of a heart attack. He had been pro-
fessor of political science at Rutgers Uni-
versity since 1946. He believed that the
best way to learn about government was
to serve in it. From 1940-42, he was
chairman of North Brunswick ‘Township.
During World War II, he was hearings
officer of the Enemy Alien Control Board
of the Department of Justice, and later
as a member of the National War Labor
Board, New York region.

1922

Maurice BERTRAM PEIKIN, president of
Peikin Fifth Avenue, Incorporated, in
New York City, died on January 18, 1961,
while in Miami Beach, Florida.

1924

Curis A. EBELING, JR., manager of the
Washington, D.C. Branch Office of U.S.
Fidelity and Guaranty Company, died
April 11, 1961. He was a lieutenant com-
mander in the Navy during World War
II. He served in many community activi-
ties in Silver Spring, Maryland, as a di-
rector of the Boys Club, past vice-presi-
dent of Elks and Kiwanis Clubs and of
the Humane Society of Washington.

1925

NEWTON REID Brack died January 16,
1961. His home was in Orlando, Florida.
He was an investment broker, represent-
ing the A. M. Kidder and company of
New York in Orlando.

1927

MAuRICE WHARTON BUTLER died July 29,
1959. His home was in Massapequa Park,

New York, and he was a free lance writ-
er. For a number of years, he edited
trade publications in New York City and
sold features and fiction to well-known
magazines.

1930

CHARLES FRANCIs Hoop, Jr., died January
18, 1961, of a heart attack, while on a
business trip to Indianapolis. He was
sales manager for the Notat Tire Com-
pany in Chattanooga, Tennessee. During
World War II, he served with the U.S.
Navy on the destroyer, USS Cox.

MARSHALL FULLER Epwarps drowned July
2, 1960. His home was in Fort Thomas,
Kentucky.

1933

GARLAND G. Roacu died January 6, 1961,
following an illness of several months.
He was purchasing agent for the Jewell
Ridge Coal Company, for which he had
worked for twenty-seven years. He was a
member of the board of deacons of the
Richlands, Virginia, Presbyterian church.
He was Past Master of Richlands Lodge
318, A. F. and A.M., and had served as
its secretary since 1950.

1939

STEWART MCKINNEY JOHNSON died Febru-
ary 4, 1961, at Presbyterian Hospital in
New York City. He had been on the staff
of the New Yorker magazine for thirteen
years, and for the last five years was edi-
tor of the research department. He was a
former teacher of English at the Cin-
cinnati Conservatory of Music, and was
later employed by the Encyclopedia
Americana. During World War II, he
served in the Intelligence division of the
Air Corps, and was discharged as a major.

1949

JAMEs F. O’Grapy died March 11, 1961,
after a brief illness. He had formerly been
managing director of the Arnold Con-
stable department store in Hackensack,
New Jersey, but since 1957, he had been
general manager of the Bergen Mall Shop-
ping Center at Paramus, New Jersey. He
was a leader in the shopping-center in-
dustry and many of the ideas he devel-
oped have been used by other centers
throughout the nation. He won the Red-
book magazine award for shopping center
promotions in 1960, and he had a year-
round program of art, music, and histori-
cal exhibitions at Bergen Mall. He was
a director of the Hackensack Area De-
velopment Council, and the North Ber-
gen County Council of Boy Scouts. His
widow and seven children survive him.

1958

‘THOMAS Norwoop AKIN died o1 Decem-
ber 9, 1960. His home was in Decatur,
Georgia. He was a member of Phi Kappa
Sigma fraternity.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

Top, left to right, BILL WASHBURN, LEE MCLAUGHLIN and JOHN M. MADIsoNn in Shreveport

March 17. Center, Lynchburg officers R. B. ‘TAYLOR, ’44; FRANK H. CALLAHAM, JR., ’52;

and B. R. SCHEWEL, *41. Botiom, at Peninsula meeting, JOHN P. BOWEN, ‘51; LEE Mc-
LAUGHLIN, D. W. WILKINRSON, JR., ’38, avd BILL WASHBURN, '40.

SPRING 1961

Alumni

Chapter News

NORTH LOUISIANA

A meeting of the North Louisi-
ana alumni chapter took place in
the Shreveport Country Club on
March 17, 1961. The stag banquet,
preceded by a social hour, was a
welcome for football coach Lee
McLaughlin and Bill Washburn
from the University. Each gave
brief reports on new developments
at the college and movies of the
undefeated 1960 football season
were shown.

Chapter president, E. Lane Sar-
tor, 42, presided and presented a
slate of officers from the nominat-
ing committee for the next year as
follows: — president, Robert U:
Goodman, °50; vice-president, M.
Alton Evans, Jr., 53. The new of-
ficers were elected by acclamation.

LYNCHBURG

A large crowd of over 100 alum-
ni, wives, and friends joined in a
banquet at Boonesboro Country
Club on February 24, 1961 The
meeting was addressed by Frank J.
Gilliam, dean of students at the
University, who was introduced by
James R. Caskie, ’06, rector of the
Board of Trustees of Washington
and Lee. Dr. George B. Craddock
presided and introduced the guests
from the University and from the
surrounding women’s colleges and
prep schools.

After Dr. Craddock gave a rés-
umé of the past year’s activities, the
treasurer, Robert B. Taylor, gave
his report. The chairman of the
nominating committee, James Earl
McCausland, presented the names
of the following men as the slate
of officers for the coming year:
president, Frank H. Callaham, Jr.,
52; vice-president, Robert B. ‘Tay-
lor, 44; and secretary-treasurer,

29

Top, left to right, ART Woop, ’50; G. W. Parsons, JR., 39; and ALLAN DELAND, "92, at
the Pittsburgh meeting; center, Cleveland chapter members Harry T. MORELAND, ’37; R.
H. Moore, °44; and HALiLer R. Gates, °48. Bottom, at the Birmingham meeting were
JOHN COE, ’25; SORSBY JEMISON, ’09; COL. WILLIAM RUSHTON, ’21; and JAMES BRYAN, ’21.

30

 

Bertram R. Schewel, °41. Their
election was unanimous.

Dean Gilliam’s address, relating
primarily to admission standards
and to a profile of the student body,
was enthusiastically received.

PENINSULA

‘The Peninsula alumni chapter
met at the James River Country
Club on Friday March 3, 1961,
with a well-attended banquet. Fol-
lowing a short social hour, the
chapter president, John Bowen, ’51,
introduced Bill Washburn, Execu-
tive Secretary of the Alumni Asso-
ciation, and Football Coach Lee
McLaughlin. Each of the guest
speakers gave a brief account of
new developments at Washington
and Lee and information on the
athletic program.

Following the meeting, Coach
McLaughlin showed football films
with highlights of the 1960 Gener-
al’s undefeated season. Plans were
announced for another meeting
some time later in the spring.

PITTSBURGH

A group of interested alumni met
Monday, March 20, 1961, at the
University Club in Pittsburgh to
discuss ways and means of reacti-
vating the local chapter. At the
request of a number of men, Alum-
ni Secretary Bill Washburn was
on hand to advise and support the
proposed program.

A. M. Doty was named by the
group to be chairman of a local
board of directors. Chapter direc-
tors chosen: for a one-year term
were: Charles Gilmore, ’39; Allan
Deland, ’32; M. G. Heatwole, ’41;
Dave Johnson, ‘21; John Perry, ’38;
George Parsons, Jr., °39; Art Wood,
50; and Harry Redenbaugh, ’g9. It
was approved that the named board
have power to add other members
at its descretion. A future board
meeting was to be held in May.
Bill Washburn outlined the stand-
ard procedures and steps in secur-
ing a well-rounded, participating

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

chapter. The meeting closed with
a film about Washington and Lee.

CLEVELAND

The Cleveland alumni chapter
entertained at a luncheon at the
Mid-Day Club on March 21, 1961.
Bill Washburn, Alumni Secretary
from Lexington, was principal
speaker.

Hal Gates, ’48, president of the
chapter, presided at the luncheon
and announced plans for the chap-
ter’s next meeting in late summer,
when present students and enter-
ing freshmen will be on the pro-
gram. A football movie of the Gen-
erals’ 1960 undefeated football
season was enthusiastically received.
The group expressed congratula-
tions to visitor Dave Garver, Jr.,
who will enter Washington and
Lee in September and extended
him a welcome to the University.

BIRMINGHAM

The alumni of the Birmingham
chapter gathered for a stag dinner
Wednesday, March 15, 1961, at the
Mountain Brook Country Club.
John Coe, ‘25, chapter president,
presided at the banquet.

Executive secretary Bill Wash-
burn, 40, was introduced and gave
a brief report on the current de-
velopments now underway on the
campus. The group was pleased to
recognize several guests whose sons
are planning to enter Washington
and Lee as freshmen this Septem-
ber. A movie of football highlights

of 1960 was shown.

CHICAGO

A group of Chicago alumni,
headed by Bull Hillier, ’38, and W.
C. Baker, ’38, met at the Univer-
sity Club on Wednesday evening,
March 22, 1961. ‘The meeting was
held to discuss the possibility of re-
activating the alumni chapter of
the Chicago area.

Bill Washburn, Executive Sec-
retary, from Lexington was on

SPRING 1961

hand to suggest ways and means to
carry out this program. Several
suggestions were made and a com-
mittee appointed to study them.
Further notice of other develop-
ments in this area will be mailed
to the alumni.

MEMPHIS

Alumni in the Memphis area
met March 16, 1961, for a stag din-
ner at the University Club. Presid-
ing at the meeting was J. Hunter
Lane, jr, 81, president of: the
chapter, who presented the guest
speaker, football coach Lee Mc-
Laughlin. In his review of the Uni-
versity’s athletic program, Mc
Laughlin showed some _ football
films and praised the performance

of local area players Graham Ful-
ton, Lanny Butler, and ‘Tommy
Keesee. The coach noted that high
hopes were held next year for fresh-
men Sid Butler and Jimmy Sylvest-
er. Bill Washburn, evecutive secre-
tary of the Association was also
introduced.

President Lane announced plans
for a future meeting in April when
Dr. James G. Leyburn from Wash-
ington and Lee was to be a visiting
lecturer at Southwestern Univer-
sity at Memphis.

CHATTANOOGA

Alumni of the Chattanooga area
met for a stag dinner March 14,
1961, at the Chattanooga Golf and
Country Club.

 

Top, at the Chicago meeting were W. HATFIELD SMITH, ’28; BILt. BAKER, ’38; and RICHARD
BAKER, ‘52. Bottom, HUNTER LANE, JR., ’51; COOPER TURNER, °27; and ARTHUR MCCAIN,
14, at the Memphis chapter gathering.

31

 

Shown at the Chattanooga meeting on March 14 are, left to right, CHARLFs L. CLAUNCH,
29: GERRY U. STEPHENS, ’50, and JAMES H. PATTEN, IV, 51.

Alumni Secretary Bill Wash-
burn addressed the group with a
synopsis of current campus and
alumni activities. He also showed
a movie film of the football season’s
highlights. Presiding at the meet-
ing was Gerry U. Stephens, ‘50,
president of the chapter, which has
sixty-nine members in the immedi-
ate area.

NORFOLK

‘The Planters’ Glub. in Ports-
mouth was the scene for the Nor-
folk chapter meeting on April 6,
1961. Following a social hour, a
banquet was held for a large num-
ber of alumni, wives, and dates.
Several boys from the area whose
applications have been accepted
for the school term of September,
1961, were on hand with their par-
ents. Henry I. Willett, [r..-'52,pre-
sided’. over. the. affair’ and an-
nounced his successor as president
of the chapter, Ferdinand Phillips,
jt. 51, arle, adimus, °96. was
elected as vice-president and secre-
tary.

Bill Washburn and Coach Lee
McLaughlin were guest spezkers
from the University. A football
movie film was shown, followed by
comments and predictions for next
year by Coach McLaughlin.

32

TRILSTATES

Washington’s birthday occasion-
ed the meeting of the Tri-States
alumni chapter in Huntington,
West Virginia. The banquet was
held in the Crystal Room of the
Hotel Frederick and was preceded
by a fine social hour. Alumni from
Ashland, Kentucky, and _  Ches-
apeake, Ohio, joined the well-at-
tended meeting to hear Bill Wash-
burn, ’40, Executive Secretary, give
a short address on the develop-
ments at the University.

Seldon McNeer, Sr., ’16, presided

during the brief business session, at
which the following officers were
elected for the forthcoming year:
president, Joseph W. Dingess, °21;
vice-president, Richard O. Parme-
lee, “32; and secretary-treasurer,
Noel ‘T. Copen, °57.

After a short discussion of plans
for the future, a moving picture of
the 1960 football season was shown.

LOUISVILLE

The Louisville alumni chapter
met on January 19, 1961, for a busi-
ness meeting at the Pendennis
Club. After a fine program, the
chapter elected the following of-
ficers for the ensuing year: Robert
W. Vaughan, ’50, president; W.
Temple Lewis, ’40; vice-president;
and Ernest Woodward, II, ’40, sec-
retary-treasurer.

DANVILLE

A stag alumni banquet for the
Danville chapter was held in Mar-
tinsville, Virginia, on March 4g,
1961, at the Lynwood Country
Club.

Alumni from Bassett, Chatham,
Danville, Halifax, Martinsville
and South Boston gathered to hear
the principal address by Bill
Washburn, ’40, Executive Secretary

 

At the Danville meeting were DouGLAs FRITH, ’57; WILLIAM F. STONE, °33; C. RICHMOND
WILLIAMSON, ‘51; and P. K. MILEs, °17.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Annual Alumni Meeting Will Be June 1
2:00 p.m. in Lee Chapel

PROPOSED CHANGES IN ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND By-Laws

Pursuant to the authorization
given at the annual meeting of the
Alumni Association in June of
1960, the Alumni Board of Trus-
tees has recommended that certain
changes be made in the Articles of
Incorporation and the By-Laws.
Notice of the proposed amend-
ments to the Articles of Incorpora-

 

(Continued from opposite page)

of the Alumni Association. His
talk outlined the newest develop-
ments on the campus and ended
with the showing of a movie film
and the 1960 season’s football
games.

President C. Richmond William-
son presided at the banquet and
appointed a committee to assist the
University in matters of admissions
and scholarships. A future program
to include the wives and dates of
the members was discussed.

NEW YORK

A smoker for the alumni of the
New York area was held at the
German Brew House on East 54th
Street, March 23, 1961, Head foot-
ball coach Lee McLaughlin, was on
hand to make the principal address
and show films of the 1960 unde-
feated season. Executive Secretary
Bill Washburn also made com-
ments on recent developments on
the campus. The stag affair was
presided over by chapter president
Robert E. Steele, II, ’41.

During the business session the
following committee chairmen
were announced: activities, Joseph
B. Martin, ’49; attendance, Irving
B. Bricken, *33; publicity, Robert
N. Ingham, ’55; scholarship, E.
Stewart Epley, ’49; golf, Richard
A. Brunn, ’42; club affiliation, Ed-
ward D. Lonergan, ’51.

SPRING 1961

tion has been published as required
by the laws of Virginia. Amend-
ments provide for enlargement of
the board of trustees, longer tenure
of office for members of the board
of trustees, and flexibility therein
as the needs of the corporation may
develop.

Proposed changes in the By-

Laws include: (a) putting in prop-
er form previously approved
changes regarding the title and du-
ties of the executive director; (b)
the redefinition of an alumnus in
accordance with actual practice;
and (c) provision for the transition
procedure for the enlargement of
the Board of ‘Trustees.

‘The above mentioned proposed
changes are to be acted upon by the
membership of the annual Alumni
Association meeting on June 1
1961, at 2 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

3

 

1961 in Lee Chapel the following:

EMMETIr STEWART EPLEY, °49
New York, New York

 

NOTICE TO ALUMNI

The nominating committee, appointed by the President of the Washington
and Lee University Alumni, Inc., nominates for election to the Alumni Board
of ‘Trustees, at the meeting of the corporation to be held at 2 p.m. on June 1,

CHARLES WILLIAM Pacy, II, ’50
Lutherville, Maryland
EMMETT ALTON SARTOR, JR., ’38

Shreveport, Louisiana

The committee also nominates for election as Alumni representative on
the University Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics the following:

IRVINE ‘THOMAS BAKER, ’55
Lexington, Virginia

CHARLES C. STIEFF, II, °45, Chairman
Josern E. Birnik, ’27
ROBERT M. JETER, JR., '41

 

 

 

At the New York meeting were StU WURZBURGER, ’28; BOB STEELE, ’41; LEE MCLAUGHLIN,
BILL WASHBURN, W. L. “PIN” WEBSTER, 712; and EMMETT POINDEXTER, ’20.

33

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

with crest in five colors

 

‘This chair is made from northern birch and rock maple—hand-rubbed
in black with gold trim (arms finished in cherry). A perfect gift for
Christmas, birthday, anniversary or wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to

the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

Mail your order to:
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Box 897, Lexington, Virginia

Price: $29.00 f.o.b. Gardner, Massachusetts

 

 

 

