Winter 1964

Washin GTON
AND LEE

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

“To think of Washington and Lee is to be-
lieve inan ideal.... To think of this ideal ts

 

to believe that still it has power. Its power is
to survive the unforeseen vicissitude, to enlist great
teachers, great friends. But more than this, its power ts
still to achieve a distinctive purpose; to reach beyond
the monotony of instruction, beyond the formulas of
fact, forever widening and forever intensifying, forever
important and forever trivial, to reach beyond these and
deposit in the life of a boy something a little finer than

culture, a little rarer than competence, a little nobler

than success; to quicken a dream within the young brain
prepared for dreams by the agony of the aeons, to formu-
late within the tenderness of the heart some coherence
for its own compulsions, to furnish young personality
with potency and poise.”

 

EE

 

 

THE

ASHINGTON
AND Lee

Editor

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

Managing Editor

FRANK A. PARSONS, 1954

Editorial Associate
Mrs. ROBERT STEWART

THE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President
Joun D. Battie, Jr., M.D., 1934

Vice-President
THOMAS B. BRYANT, JR., 1928

Secretary
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

Treasurer
WILLIAM B. WIsDOM, 1921

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Joun D. BATTLE, JR., M.D., 1934, President
THOMAS B. BRYANT, JR., 1928
JAMES H. CLARK, 1931

H. TYNDALL DICKINSON, 1939

E. STEWART EPLEY, 1949

ROBERT A. FULWILER, JR., 1925
THOMAS W. MOSEs, 1939

E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., 1933
C. WILLIAM Pacy, II, 1950

E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938
WILLIAM B. WISDOM, 1921
SHERWOOD W. WISE, 1932

EDITORIAL BOARD

FRANK J. GILLIAM, 1917
PAXTON DAVIS

JAMES W. WHITEHEAD

JouHN D. BATTLE, JR., 1934
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

 

Published quarterly by Alumni, Incor-
porated, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the
Post Office at Lexington, Virginia, Sep-
tember 15, 1924. Printed at the Journalism
Laboratory Press of Washington and Lee
University under the supervision of C.
Harold Lauck.

March, 1964
Volume XXXIX

Number 1

THe Cover: An oft-quoted excerpt from the
inaugural address of Dr. Francis P. Gaines
when he assumed the Washington and Lee
presidency. The address is reprinted in full
on Pages 7 and 8.

INsipE Cover: The King and Queen of Fancy
Dress for 1964 in the spotlight. Other Fancy
Dress photographs are on Page 14.

 

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Dr. Francis P. Gaines—The Happy Memory
“To Think of Washington and Lee...”
Resolution of the Board of ‘Trustees
“Those Who Called Him Their Friend. . .”
Dr. Fitzgerald Flournoy Dies

Mock Convention Time Again

Fancy Dress—1964

News of the University

Sports News: Basketball Coach Resigns

Lee Chapel’s Erben Organ Is Restored
Big “Quinquennial” Reunion: June 11-13
Alumni Fund Nears $100,000

Class Notes

News of the Chapters

Oo nr oe

10

Nw
NO

no
aw

No
Or

40

 

   

Dr. Gaines at the window of his Wash-

ington Hall office in 1959, the last day of

twenty-nine years as Washington and
Lee’s president.

nN

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

     

 

 

- The happy memory should be the res-
idence of inspiration. There we recall the
sweetness of an ancient honor, the warmth
of old friendship, the vividness of ideals once
clearly seen but dimmed perhaps by later
years. There we discover in original beauty
the old purposes that once gave life great
promise.”—From the President’s page
of the 1939 Calyx.

Dr. Francis

 

- tsames—

—lhe Happy Memory

By FRANK A. PARSONS, '54

A Heart Attack ‘Takes
The Lite of a: Devoted
Friend to All Alumni
And a Faithful Servant
Of Washington and Lee

WINTER 1964

S THE RICHMOND News Leader said in an editorial,
A is was a sad beginning of a New Year that
brought word of the death of Dr. Francis Pendleton
Gaines.

Dr. Gaines was stricken with a heart attack in the
late afternoon of December 31 while alone in the bed-
room of his home on Lexington’s Estil Street. He died
in the charming white brick house which he and Mrs.
Gaines built upon his retirement as Washington and
Lee’s president in 1959.

The home’s location was a happy one for Dr.
Gaines, for he lived close to young people he enjoyed
so much. His next door neighbor was Professor O. W.
Riegel, his long-time friend and close associate. Nearby
were the Phi Psi, Phi Ep, ZBT, and SAE fraternity
houses and their students, and across the street were

 

 

At the ODK assembly on December 17, Dr. GAINES accepted the welcomin
students on “the credentials of leadership,” and, right, once more

the faculty apartments occupied by
young professors and their families.
He was, as he once remarked, still
living “among my boys.”

Death interrupted a happy time
within the Gaines’ home. Although
none of their three sons could be
with them at Christmas, there were
grandchildren visiting and all who
knew Dr. Gaines can recall his. de-
light in his grandchildren.

Friends who visited the Gaines
during the holiday remarked on Dr.
Gaines’ good humor and_ high
spirit. Back in 1959 he had stepped
down from the presidency “for rea-
sons of general health,’ and he had
never been completely well since,
but there was nothing to suggest the
imminence of a fatal attack.

I'wo weeks to the day before he
died, Dr. Gaines stood once more
before the Washington and Lee stu-
dent body and faculty at the an-
nual Omicron Delta Kappa “tap
day” assembly. The leadership fra-
ternity is nearing the 50th anni-
versary of its founding on the Uni-
versity’s campus, and in his intro-
duction of Dr. Gaines, President
Don Partington noted that it was
particularly “fitting and proper”
that the ODK speaker be the man
who personified Washington and
Lee’s leadership for twenty-nine
years.

With the exception of a hand-
ful of law students who were un-
dergraduates under Dr. Gaines,

4

none of the 1,200 students in the
audience had known him as presi-
dent. But they knew of him, of the
Gaines legend to which Partington
had referred, and when he got up
to speak, the assembly rose with
him and he was visibly moved by
the long applause.

He spoke on the ‘‘credentials of
leadership,” and he spoke in a
manner that few among his young
audience had ever heard before. His
former faculty associates could note
that his voice lacked some of. its
familiar resonance and often, when
his quick mind brought words in
racing succession, he demanded
complete attention.

But the effect was the same as
always. His audience was spell-
bound and, as was his custom, his
words were a happy blend of the
serious and the light-hearted. An
admirer once commented that Dr.
Gaines could “‘play an audience like
an instrument,” sensing its response
to him, and responding in turn. He
did that this day, building to emo-
tional peaks in his discourse on
leadership and then breaking the
tension with a quick line of humor
that permitted him to resume his
thesis on a more appropriate level.

He spoke of positive character,
the kind which he said “is an inner
force that enables one to carry out
a worthy resolution when the mood
in which that resolution was born
has passed away.” Dr. Gaines at-

  

g ovation with closed eyes, left, then spoke forcefully to
received the audience’s standing applause.

 

  

 

 

tributed the definition to a former
professor of his, and he referred
often to it in his speeches.

Dr. Gaines spoke also of epitaphs.
He noted how they might range
from the ridiculous to the sublime
and how one of his hobbies was the
collection of unusual ones. He gave
a few examples and then closed his
address by quoting the epitaph for
historian John Richard Green: “He
died learning.”

Once more the assembly rose to
applaud Dr. Gaines, and again he
was visibly overcome by his audi-
ence’s acknowledgement. Later, he
remarked that he had not done a
good job, but there was no student
who would agree, for most had
heard a real orator for the first time
and would not forget the exper-
lence.

In retrospect, many friends com-
mented on Dr. Gaines’ reference to
epitaphs that day. The Board of
‘Trustees in its resolution on Dr.
Gaines’ death suggested that “He
died learning’? might well serve as
his own epitaph. For, indeed, he
was ever the scholar.

Dr. Gaines’ scholarship began
early. The seventh son of a Baptist
minister, he learned to read at the
age when most youngsters are learn-
ing to talk. His great familiarity
with the Bible began early, too, for
it was his first textbook. His moth-
ers teaching was so effective that
when he reached school age he be-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ean in the fourth grade at Wythe-
ville, Va. From then on, his prog-
ress as a scholar was at an accel-
erated pace—degrees from Rich-
mond, Chicago, and Columbia, a
teacher of English at Mississippi
State in his early twenties, president
of Wake Forest College at 35, presi-
dent of Washington and Lee at 38.

Dr. Gaines loved to joke about
his swift rise in the academic world.
He would quote an introduction he
once received from a former stu-
dent of his on the occasion of a
reunion of Dr. Gaines’ pupils at
Mississippi State: |

“When ithis man came to our
school, there were 152 members of
the faculty graded in the strictest
seniority and he was Number 152.
And he surveyed that situation for
about a year and he said this will
never do. No! And the next year he
married the dean’s daughter and
his progress was remarkable!”

Dr. Gaines did marry the dean’s
lovely daughter, Miss Sadie du-
Vergne Robert, who became for so
many years the gracious hostess in
the President’s House at Washing-
ton and Lee. Dr. Gaines recom-
mended similar marriages to the
boss’s daughter for his students, as
he told his ODK audience, “‘par-
ticularly if, as I did, you love her.”

When Dr. Gaines took over
the Washington and Lee presidency
in 1930, he found himself caught
up in a climate of great change.
The depression years challenged the
survival of many colleges, but Dr.
Gaines helped Washington and Lee
not only to survive but to grow. In
the process, he found that his role
as college president was also grow-
ing and changing.

“When I came here, the admin-
istrative staff consisted only of the
president, the dean, the treasurer,
and registrar,’ he recalled in an
interview in 1959. “With the dean,
I was the admissions committee, the
discipline committee, to a large
extent the curriculum committee,
and what today we would call the

WINTER 1964

development committee.” In short,
he was the kind of president he
most enjoyed being—close to the
day to day routine of the college,
close to the students he loved.

But gradually—even he could not
pinpoint the time the ‘transition
began—the president’s broadening
responsibilities took him more and
more away from the everyday oper-
ation of Washington and Lee.

“T think the president’s duties
changed when the college recog-
nized its need for varied and gen-
erous cooperation from those other

 

Dr. GAINES with Dr. CoLe before the
Colonnade.

than its immediate family,” Dr.
Gaines declared. “It became neces-
sary to take the college to the sup-
porting publics, not wait for them
to come to it.”

How well Dr. Gaines measured
up to these new duties is reflected
in the strength of Washington and
Lee today. During his administra-
tion the University’s assests increas-
ed five-fold, Washington and Lee

became a leader in advancing fac-
ulty compensation, scholarship
funds rose significantly. The Alum-
ni Fund became a major source of
strength, new buildings were added
and older ones remodeled, the fac-
ulty was strengthened and its hold-
ers of the doctorate degree in-
creased in number. In 1956, the
Chicago Tribune, atter polling
leading educators, named Wash-
ington and Lee as one of the ten
best men’s colleges in the country.

How much Dr. Gaines’ personal
charm and integrity figured in this
progress is suggested by a remark he
made to the Faculty Discussion
Club, shortly before his retirement:
“T never asked a human being for
a dollar in my life.”

In ways unrecorded in endow-
ment and buildings, Dr. Gaines also
contributed to Washington and
Lee’s prestige and stature. He head-
ed government committees, boards,
and commissions on state and na-
tional levels; he presided over edu-
cational associations and directed
impontant foundations. Fifteen col-
leges and universities, including
Washington and Lee last June, be-
stowed honorary degrees upon him.

When, in 1959, he turned over
the University’s administration to
his successor, Dr. Fred C. Cole of
Tulane University, he reflected on
his many years in office in this way:

“No man could ask for a finer
privilege. I go out of office without
a single disappointment, except in
my own performance. I have only
happy and grateful feelings for all
those who have supported me—the
trustees, the faculty, my staff, the
students, and the many good friends
of this University.”

Dr. Gaines welcomed the new
president “with confidence and
joy.” In the five years that were to
follow, Dr. Gaines—now chancellor
of the University—and President
Cole sustained a close friendship of
mutual respect and admiration.

When the newspapers of January
1 told the public of his death at 71,

5

the sorrow of his passing touched
countless hearts. Editorials and reso-
lutions praising him and his service
followed, and Mrs. Gaines received
hundreds of telegrams of personal
condolences.

Dr. Gaines’ funeral service was
conducted in Lee Chapel and he
was buried in the Lexington ceme-
tery. (ite. Chapel “was tilled,
although bad weather prevented
many from out of town from at-
tending. Among the mourners were
many college presidents, some
Dr. Gaines’ former colleagues in the
Virginia Foundation for Indepen-
dent Colleges, of which he was one
of the founders. Many alumni also

were there, including some with
whom Dr. Gaines had worked in
his final effort with the University
Development Program.

‘There were those whose associa-
tion with Dr. Gaines spanned all
of the thirty-four years he lived in
Lexington, thirty-four years that,
in sum, certainly constituted a
“happy memory” for him. Those
of us whose privilege it was to work
closest with him knew of the dis-
appointments and problems which
come to all men. He could depend
on our love and respect. He is for
all who knew him a happy memory
of kindness and generosity.

Each of us treasures memories of

 

this man. I recall the busy day at
a newspaper desk when his tele-
phone call opened up for me an
Opportunity to work with him for
Washington and Lee. I recall his
hand on my shoulder or the grasp
of my arm while he shared the latest
addition to his storehouse of anec-
dotes. I remember the flowers from
“Penrobin” when my son was born.

I remember, too, his closing
words when he addressed a Wash-
ington and Lee graduation class for
the last time in 1959.

“And may He be with my boys.”

Like so many others, I am proud
and grateful to have been one of
Dr. Gaines’ boys.

 

“Tt is the final satisfying reward of all men’s efforts, the sense
of building something into a cause, or into an institution, that
in itself is noble, that in itself is lasting, and you stand and look
and say, ‘I have been a part of something big, even though I was
small. I have done for that which shall endure, even though I
pass. ”—from an address by Dr. Gaines before Richmond alum-

ni, January 15, 1959.

6

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The inaugural address delivered by Dr. Gaines

on October 25, 1930, is as timely today as ut
was then. It is reprinted here in full.

“To Think of

Washington
And Lee...”

O THINK of Washington and Lee is to remember
l an ideal.

“An ideal stirred the settlers of this Valley who in
days of grimness dreamed of fruitage and of light. It
drew from Washington a donation of financial re-
source and a felicity of sonorous phrase. It proved
stronger than wars and their disconsolate train. Unto
it Lee brought the summation of his life.

“As this ideal has been powerful, so it has been
free. The years define broadly the title given this en-
terprise in the rechristening of 1776, Liberty Hall.
Dedicated to ends of citizenship, this institution has
been free from the domination of any frantic frac-
tion of popular whim. Aspiring to lead men to view
life as through the eyes of Christ, it has been free from
the clamor of conflicting creed. Reverencing the South-
ern sentiment which crystallizes in its community,
Washington and Lee, through the influences of him

WINTER 1964

 

who was greatest alike in that sentiment and this
academic history, has been free from the prejudice and
the pride of sectionalism. Striving for character not less
than for learning, it has liberated students from most
of the regulatory minutia, so that out of his freedom
each boy may cry,

‘Tf it be a sin to covet honor,
Iam the most offending soul alive.’

“It is an utterly new world in which this ideal today
seeks expression. ‘Then there was but a small band
of heroic youth who annually set forth upon the
pilgrimage of knowledge, isolating themselves in vales
of quietness; now the browning of the leaves sees in
exodus a nation of youth never quite detached from
the larger world. Then the Pierian spring was single
and standard; now tumbling cascades of variegated
curricula are at every turning of the road. ‘Then the
mode of student life was routine beyond the chance of

7

much deviability; now it is colored and noisy with
the frolic pageantry of campus styles. ‘Then, if we may
believe the prophet of lament, the objective was the
training of the mind; now the objective is to make
money. Then, to quote again the frightened critics,
the pilgrims were responsive to emotional impulse;
now they are young sophisticates, sprayed by the acids
of futility, seeking to integrate life in hardness beyond
the scope of vulnerable moods.

“But to think of Washington and Lee is to believe
in an ideal.

“It is to believe that this ideal shall still be free,
free from new threats as well as old restraints. It is to
believe that this ideal may preserve its liberty against
the modern tyrannies of standardization. Humbly
seeking to learn from the processes of other education-
al effort, this ideal shall he independent of the con-
tagion of conformity, the assumption that every in-
stitution must do exactly the same thing in exactly
the same way at exactly the same time. Its ideal is
still to be free from the coercions of premature special-
ization. It shall not deny young life its legitimate pro-
fessional interests, it shall in broad terms train young
minds into the ideas, young lips into the vocabulary,
of their destined work. But this highway is not to be
cut into the deep ravines of trade. The energies dedi-
cated to this ideal shall not cramp youth into the
intellectual straight-jacket of economic necessity.

“To think of this ideal is to believe that still it
has power. Its power is to survive the unforeseen vicis-
situde, to enlist great teachers, great friends. But more
than this, its power is still to achieve a distinctive pur-
pose; to reach beyond the monotony of instruction,
beyond the formulas of fact, forever widening and
forever intensifying, forever important and forever
trivial, to reach beyond these and deposit in the life
of a boy something a little finer than culture, a little
rarer than competence, a little nobler than success; to

q

 

quicken a dream within the young brain prepared for
dreams by the agony of the aeons, to formulate within
the tenderness of the heart some coherence for its own
compulsions, to furnish young personality with poten-
cy and with poise.

“Such faith is justified by our recollections of this
ideal in the past and by our knowledge of the material
of the present upon which the ideal will work. Around
us the air is full of facile dictions of despondency, as
an unadjusted conservatism watches young life sweep
on, as it has always done, to swifter adaptations. But
the promise of tomorrow is still written only upon the
countenance of youth; and those who know youth best
see that the tablet still is fair, the message is still of
hope.

“An antique poet has left for us an impressive
figure. It is to be regretted that we have shuddered at
the gloom of his prediction rather than marveled at
the brilliance of his theme.

‘Or ever the golden bowl be broken - - -?

“Perhaps just for the moment he was thinking
not of death but of life. Perhaps here is an implica-
tion of our ideal; to take the bow] of life, so precious in
native materials, and to give it beauty with a pattern
of courtesy and of charm; to give it dimension with
capacity for lovely interests and generous sympathies;
to give it strength that it may resist and may endure;
to give a divine utility that again and again it may
be emptied before high altars. Perhaps this bowl is
the Holy Grail of our privileged quest, the gleaming
grace of which shall strengthen stumbling feet over
the ranges of difficulty, shall illumine every shadowed
vale of our dispair.

‘Saw ye no more?’

‘I, Galahad, saw the Holy Grail.
I saw the holy cup descend upon the shrine.
I saw the Holy Face as of a child’ ”

On the following pages are recorded some of the sentt-
ments expressed by Dr. Gaines’ friends and associates in
the days that followed his death. Only the resolution of
the Board of Trustees is reprinted in full; other resolu-
tions and editorials, of necessity, have only excerpts re-
corded here. The resolution passed by the Virginia Gen-
eral Assembly was introduced by the Hon. Bernard Levin,
42, as chief patron, and was signed by the nine other
Washington and Lee alumni in the House of Delegates and
the seven alumni who serve in the Virginia Senate.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Resolution of the Board of Trustees

January 18, 1964

“With deepest sorrow, the members of the Board of Trustees of Washington
and Lee University append to their official minutes the report of the death of
one of the University’s most devoted servants. Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, Chan-
cellor and former President, was fatally stricken by a heart attack at his home in
Lexington in the late afternoon of December 31, 1963.

“There is no way to calculate the hearts that were saddened by Dr. Gaines’ pass-
ing. So varied were his interests, so broad was his service to his University, his na-
tion and his fellowmen, that those who called him their friend are legion. His was
a personal magnetism of warmth and generosity that reached out to all that knew
him during the 71 years of his life. We, the Trustees, and other members of the
Washington and Lee University family, knew him best, and our sense of personal
loss is overpowering.

“It is not our purpose in this memorial to review the many achievements of a
full and unselfish life, nor shall we rechart the great progress of this University dur-
ing the 29 years that Dr. Gaines served as President. On the occasion of his retire-
ment, this Board, with affection and gratitude, expressed elsewhere in these minutes
its admiration for Dr. Gaines’ personal accomplishments and his leadership which
brought unprecedented distinction to Washington and Lee. Today, by this testimon-
ial, we honor the memory of our friend and colleague, and we recount moments of
our long association that each of us shall treasure. We recall the vigor of his hand-
clasp, his felicity of expression, his unfailing charm and ready wit, his inexhaustible
storehouse of delightful anecdote and parable with which he so often brought wel-
come relief to the tensions of our official deliberations.

“We rejoice in our knowledge that a generation of students who never knew Dr.
Gaines as President had opportunity to hear him speak and marvel at his gift of ora-
tory. And we reflect with new insight upon his closing remarks to the Omicron Delta
Kappa assembly, just two weeks before his death, when he spoke of the noblest epi-
taph he knew: “He died learning.” Dr. Gaines possessed remarkable qualities of in-
tellect. His knowledge of many fields was detailed and broad, and his capacity for
sound reasoning and his sensitivity to the world about him were unparalleled. Yet,
we know that he, too, died learning, as would befit one whose life was dedicated to
increasing man’s knowledge and understanding, his humility and tolerance.

“In our sorrow, we draw inspiration from the life of Francis Pendleton Gaines,
and we rededicate ourselves to the faithful service of the University which became
a part of the very fibre of this kind man. We are comforted in our knowledge that
he is now part of the immortal company of men—Washington, Lee, and many oth-
ers—who are the sinew of our University’s strength.

“Tt is ordered that these fond and sorrowful sentiments be recorded upon the
minutes of the Board of Trustees and that an engrossed copy be presented, with ex-
pressions of our profound sympathy, to Mrs. Gaines.

WINTER 1964

 

“Those Who Called Him Their Friend .. .’’

“Whereas, Francis Pendleton Gaines did

throughout his years at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity hold open his door, his mind, and_ his
heart to the students, and did give to them and
to Washington and Lee incalculable values; and was
because of all these things revered and beloved by
the generations of Washington and Lee men who
passed his way....”—from a resolution adopted by
the EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE of the STUDENT Bopy.

“Always he was mindful of the great traditions
of George Washington and Robert E. Lee. He
moved in their shadows. He built on their foun-
dations. Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines has left a
deep imprint upon every facet of University life.
The impression of his character and accomplish-
ments will be etched upon the red brick and white
columns of Washington and Lee for endless years
to come.”—from a_ resolution prepared for the
ALUMNI BOARD OF ‘TRUSTEES.

“So profound was his impact upon the faculty and
students of Washington and Lee that he inspired others
to emulate his example. To be introduced to him was to
become his friend. He was master of the strategic and
mindful of the tactical in meeting his own responsibili-

ties.”--from a resolution adopted. by the FAcutry.

“Washington and Lee grew
steadily scholastically and
materially during this period
embracing a full generation
of students. It owes a great
debt to Dr. Gaines, as does
the whole field of education
in Virginia. And this com-
munity in particular will feel
a great loss in his death.”—

from the Lexington
NEws-GAZETTE

“Dr. Gaines was a charming gentleman of the old
school who thrived on new ideas, He deserves to be ranked
among Virginia’s greatest sons of the 20th century.’—from
the Roanoke Wor.p-News.

“To attend a large dinner where he was present was
to find the guests eventually turning to hear what story
it was that Frank Gaines was telling, or to listen to his
informed and witty conversation....

“He was a gallant gentleman with as full a life as any
man could have and he will be remembered as such men
always are remembered.”’—from the Lynchburg News.

“No one did more than Dr. Gaines in a time of grow-
ing social and economic complexities to awaken Virginia’s
people to the importance of education of breadth and
quality at all levels. The progress and welfare of Virginia
were causes which held his ardent interest and he was one
of our most articulate and persuasive leaders in all areas

of civic endeavor....’—from the Roanoke TIMEs.

10

“It is a sad beginning to the year that
brings word of the death of Dr. Francis
Pendleton Gaines. He exemplified all that
is best in the academic life of this State;
in every literal sense of the familiar
phrase, he was scholar and gentleman.
Virginia was greatly the richer for having
known him all these years....

“He combined a superb command of
the English language with a showman’s
gifts of timing and diction. His puckish
sense of humor lightened the most seri-
ous address, and his grip on an audience
never wavered....

“He will be keenly missed. Plagued all
his life by ill health, he had been off
stage for quile some time, but it is a sad
thing to realize that we no longer can ex-
pect to see that sturdy figure in the door-
way, cane in one hand, some book in the
other, as he dropped by the office to talk
of Virginia’s colleges or just to say hello.
This Commonwealth has been blessed
with some exceptionally fine college and
university presidents. We venture to say
that when the roll is called wp yonder,
the name of Frank Gaines will lead the
rest.’—from the RIGHMOND NEws LEADER.

“Fairly short of stature, he was stocky and his jaw was
squared off and heavy, like a reference book. His silver hair, and
thick hand that would swing through the air to emphasize a
point, added authority to what he had to say. As a politician,
he would have been, perhaps, of the Bryan mold; as a preacher,
probably a Sockman or Fosdick; as an entertainer, the Will
Rogers type, intelligent and full of good humor. As an educator,
Dr. Gaines himself set the pattern. A University president, he
was no ivory-tower scholar; he was not even mainly an admin-
istrator. He became education’s leading emissary to the outside
world, pleading for its larger, voluntary support....’—from the
Norfolk LrpGER-STAR.

“There were giants in that class
of 1912 but none of greater stature
than Francis Pendleton Gaines
whose death on the last day of the
dying year closed out the career of
one of the greatest educators the
South has produced. A man of no-
ble spirit, of lofty vision, he re-
vealed the idealism by which he
lived ....’—from the University of
Richmond’s ALUMNI BULLETIN.

“In addition to many other qualities which are too
rarely seen in these days, Francis Pendleton Gaines was
the exemplar of the tradition of the ‘Virginia gentleman.’
Dignity, noblesse oblige, and an abiding modesty were
among the characteristics which set him apart from other
men....
“It is therefore fitting and proper that the General
Assembly of Virginia record its regret upon the passing
from our midst of this great educator, friend, wise coun-
cellor and true Virginian....”’—from a joint resolution
adopted by the VirGINIA GENERAL ASSEMBLY.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Death Claims

Dr. Fitzgerald ;
Flournoy, °21

R. FITZGERALD FLOURNOY, ’21,
D whose popular courses in
Shakespeare and Elizabethan dra-
ma established him as one of the
most memorable of Washington
and Lee professors, died January
29 in University Hospital in Char-
lottesville. He was 65.

Dr. Flournoy had been ill for
several weeks, following a stroke
in his home. He is survived by his
wife, Mrs. Mildred Flournoy; a son,
William Cabell Flournoy of Lynch-
burg; and his mother, Mrs. Mary
Boyd Flournoy, who for many years
was hostess at Lee Chapel and
house mother for Phi Epsilon Pi
fraternity.

A distinguished student while at
Washington and Lee, Dr. Flournoy
received his A.B. degree in 1921
and his M.A. in 1922. In 1922 he
became the University’s second
eraduate to be selected as a Rhodes
Scholar for study at England’s Ox-
ford University. Oxford awarded
him a B.A. degree with honors in
1924 and an M.A. in 1928. He re-
ceived his Ph.D. degree from Yale
in 1936.

After teaching at Stanford Un1-
versity in 1925-26, Dr. Flournoy
joined the Washington and Lee
faculty the following academic
year and undertook a_ teaching
career there that would win him
the respect and admiration of gen-
erations of students. He was pro-
moted to professor in 1937.

Of all his courses, Shakespeare
was his most popular. In the spring
when open windows let his boom-
ing voice escape from Payne Hall’s

WINTER 1964

   

Dr. FLournoy was the second of Washington and Lee’s seven Rhodes Scholars.

When Jon B. McLin, ‘60, right, was selected for the coveted award in 1960,
Dr. Flournoy showed him the Oxford blazer he wore in England in the
early 1920'S. S

classrooms, students would pause
on the walks outside to enjoy his
reading from King Lear and other
of Shakespeare’s tragedies.

Dr. Flournoy was often a partici-
pant at Fancy Dress as a narrator
for the figure. Life magazine once
carried his photograph in this ca-
pacity.

Dr. Flournoy was a man of great
charm and keen wit. His gift for
distinctive self-expression was ad-
mired by his colleagues, and his
report to the faculty on Rhodes
Scholarship candidates was always
a highlight of an academic year.

Once when required physical
education was under attack from
some quarters of the faculty, Dr.
Flournoy rose in defense of the es-
tablished program and demolished
opposition with an oration that

drew applause from his. associates.

Several years ago, in. describing
his plans for future scholarly inves-
tigation, Dr. Flournoy admitted
that his eagerness in this area had
somewhat lessened, particularly
during the summer. “Frankly,” he
wrote, ‘the time comes when I
would rather fish.”

Through a grant from Washing-
ton and Lee’s faculty research assist-
ance program, Dr. Flournoy, in
1961, was able to revisit England
and the Shakespeare country that
he loved.

His courses, important offerings
of the University’s English pro-
gram, will continue to be taught
well by others, but future students
will miss a_ distinctiveness and
charm that only Fitz Flournoy
could add.

11

 

12

By GENE B. Hanstey
Asssitant Director of Information
Services

LL WASHINGTON AND LEE situ-
dents are Republicans this
year.

At least they are deep into plans
for portraying the delegates who
will select the 1964 Republican
presidential nominee.

‘This is the year for one of Wash-
ington and Lee’s _ best-known
events—the Mock Convention.

Actually preparations already are
heading down the home stretch.
‘This year’s convention is  sched-
uled May 4 and 5 and it will be ac-
companied by all the ballyhoo, ex-
citement, famous people, and hope-
fully, accuracy of the twelve former
sessions. Following the pattern set
with the first convention in 1908,
this year’s affair will be for the po-
litical party out of power—the Re-
publicans.

Work on the 1964 event started
last May when Philip D. Sharp Jr.,
a 29-year-old intermediate law stu-
dent from Richmond, was appoint-
ed chairman. He _ received his
B.A. degree, cum laude, from
Washington and Lee in 1962, and
was a convention delegate in 1960.
Soon after his selection as chair-
man, Sharp named a _ seven-man
student steering committee to as-
sist in the planning and operation
of the event.

‘The four law school students on
the committee are: Charles B.
Rowe of Courtland, assistant chair-
man; Wyatt B. Durrette, Jr. of
Franklin, Republican Party chair-
man; Donald H. Partington of
Springfield, state delegations chair-
man; and Peter TT. Straub of St.
Louis, Mo., pre-convention direct-
or.

Undergraduate members are Ed-
ward M. Norton, Jr. of Butler, Pa.,
secretary; John M. Madison of
Shreveport, La., parade chairman;
and Stephen P. Smith III of Jack-
sonville, Fla., publicity chairman.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Behind the scenes work went on
all summer and fall until the com-
mittee announced in October that
former Congressman Dr. Walter H.
Judd would keynote the 1964 Re-
publican Mock Convention.

Judd is an appropriate choice be-
cause he keynoted the 1960 Repub-
lican National Convention. When
sounding the party challenge to the
Washington and Lee convention,
he will be following a tradition set
by previous keynote speakers like
President Harry ‘Truman, Senator
Alben Barkley, and on the Repub-
lican side, Kansas Senator Frank
Carlson, and Congressman Clar-

ence Brown, ’16L, of Ohio.
From 1942 to 1962 Dr. Judd
served as a Congressman from

Minnesota. His
medical missionary in China before
World War II helped make him a
leading member of the House Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs. In a 1962
Congressional poll, his colleagues
named him one of the House of
Representatives’ five most influen-
tial members, the only one chosen
from the minority party.

experience as a

Early in March Virginia’s Sixth
Congressional District Representa-
tive Richard H. Poff accepted an
invitation to be honorary chair-
man of the Mock Convention. A
Republican who has served in Con-
eress continuously since 1952, Poff
represents a district in Virginia
which includes both Roanoke and
Lynchburg. He will welcome dele-
eates to the Mock Convention on
behalf of Virginia Republicans as
well as introducing Dr. Judd.

Thousands of people have always
jammed Lexington on the conven-
tion’s opening day to see the kick-
off parade and the 1964 version is

shaping up as an equal to any in

past years. ‘Chere will be bands, a
float from each of the 53 delega-
tions and maybe a real elephant
let everyone know the Republicans
are in town. Dr. Judd and Poff will
ride together in the lead car.

After the parade and opening

WINTER 1964

session devoted to the keynote ad-
dress, delegates will get down to the
business of,'the convention—trying
to select the same presidential can-
didate that the Republican Nation-
al Convention will later this sum-
mer. Alumni have posted a winning
record of predictions in the past
by accurately naming the out-ol-
power party’s standard bearer eight
times. They have been wrong only
four times in the Mock Conven-
tion’s history.

Chairmen of the 53 state and ter-
ritorial delegations were selected
last spring too, and were instructed
to begin taking soundings of the
political situation in their states
during the summer.

For example, John Heinzerling,
a School of Commerce senior from
Houston, made contact with both
the Republican Party chairman
and Republican Party executive di-
rector in Texas. As head of the 56-
vote Texas delegation, Heinzerling
has been keeping a sharp eye on
political developments in this stra-
tegic state.

He said determining Goldwater —

as the candidate ‘Texas Republi-
cans will cast their votes for at the
national convention this summer
“wasn’t all that much of a problem
because it’s pretty clear cut.”

Like most other state chairmen,
Heinzerling will have his own “hot
line” from the convention floor to
his Republican advisor in ‘Texas to
receive voting advice.

Where the preference for a par-
ticular candidate is clear cut in
Texas, Jim De Young, Illinois Dele-
gation chairman to the Mock Con-
vention, is having to “read between
the lines’ to determine how his
state will actually vote at the na-
tional convention. De Young, a
junior from the Chicago suburb of
Kenilworth, sums up the situation
by saying that Illinois Republican
leaders seem to favor Goldwater
“but not many of them will come
right out and say it.”

Walter Bennett, a junior from

Tuscaloosa, Ala., has politically
made himself into a New England-
er to be chairman of the Massachu-
setts delegation. Advice from, alum-
nus Harold Hickox, oe in West-
Mascachusetts CR opieicu fader
and such highly regarded newspa=
pers as the Christian Science ‘Moni-
tor, tell Bennett the state is now di-
vided between Goldwater ae Hen-
ry Cabot Lodge. ;

Meanwhile, other students have
been working in Lexington to in-
sure the accuracy and success of the
convention. A fifteen-man Secretar-
iat is handling the correspondence
and paper work for arrangements.
Each of the mentioned Republican
candidates has a student campaign
manager already at work on the
campus.

The publicity director, in coop-
eration with university public re-
lations staff members, is sending
out stories to the press and_ plan-
ning a campaign to attract cover-
age of the convention by national
publications, network — television

and radio.

Last summer a brochure giving
general information about the con-
vention was printed. Soon after
Christmas, it was revised to include
pictures and biographical — facts
about Dr. Judd.

And then there are the thousand
and one details to arrange such as
who is going to make the signs
identifying each delegation, who is
going to entertain Miss Virginia
when she visits the convention, who
will meet Miss America of 1963
at the airport when she comes to
ride in the parade on the Texas
float, who will arrange special park-
ing spaces for the visiting press
and political leaders.

These and hundreds more are
all being worked out and somehow,
on May 4, the 13th Mock Conven-
tion will get under way and, hope-
fully, the next day nominate the
man who will campaign this fall
against President Johnson.

13

 

PRESIDENT RANDY WOOTTON and MIss SUSAN
Wuite lead the Fancy Dress figure.

Costumes of the figure participants were colorful and varied.

 

HE Alumni Magazine, which was criticized by
ies last year when it dared suggest that
Fancy Dress isn’t what it used to be, can report
with pride that Fancy Dress 1964 was a great suc-
cess, comparing favorably with the best of yester-
year.

Under the direction of President Randy
Wootton of Baltimore, decorations in Evans
Dining Hall tastefully suggested the atmosphere
of Mardi Gras, theme for the 1964 ball. The nar-
rative for the opening figure was witty and
spirited, and it was presented excellently by
visiting law professor Archibald Robertson.

President Wootton, as King Rex, and _ his
queen, Miss Susan White of Baltimore, were
elegantly attired, as were all members of the
figure and most other dancers.

 

14

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Tapped for membership in Omicron Delta Kappa were, l-r, attorney WILBUR CURTIS HALL, 715L; newspaper publisher Cot. JOHN MAr-

 

TIN Jones, III, 37; Lexington physician Dr. O. HUNTER MCCLUNG, JR.; and Dean of Students Dr. Epwarp C. ATWoop, Jr.

News of the University

Two Alumni Honored by ODK

wo ALUMNI, the Dean of stu-
dents, and a distinguished Lex-
physician were among
twenty-two persons tapped for
membership in Omicron Delta
Kappa’s Alpha Circle at Washing-
ton and Lee.

Also selected at the annual “tap
day” assembly in December were
sixteen student initiates whose
campus leadership qualified them
for membership in the national
honor society founded at Washing-
ton and Lee a half century ago.

Chosen as alumni members were
Wilbur Curtis Hall, ’15L, of Lees-
burg, Va., and Col. John Martin
Jones, ITI, ’37, of Greenville, ‘Venn.

Dr. Edward C. Atwood, Jr., who
succeeded Dean Frank J. Gilliam
as Dean of Students at Washington
and Lee, was also honored.

ington

WINTER 1964

Dr. O. Hunter McClung, Jr. of
Lexington, was cited for his tireless
efforts in the service of his com-
munity as a physician and a civic
leader.

Mr. Hall is a former member of
the Virginia legislature who has
conducted a highly successful law
practice in Leesburg since 1915. He
was praised for his contributions to
his Alma Mater as a class agent for
the Alumni Fund and in other
alumni activities.

Colonel Jones is president of the
Greenville, Tenn., Publishing Co.
and editor and manager of the
Greenville Daily Sun. He served in
World War II in the Northern Bur-
ma campaign, and his diary was the
basis for the moving picture, “Mer-
rill’s Marauders.”

Law students tapped were Wyatt

B. Durrette, Jr.; James A. Gory,
Il]; Edward H. MacKinlay; and
Philip D. Sharp.

Seniors included were John W.
Baker; Arthur E. Broadus; Sydney
J. Butler; Jere R. Cravens; Alfred
E. Eckes, Jr.; Barry A. Greene;
Kenneth P. Lane; John M. Madi-
son, Jr.; Roger W. Paine, IIT; Jim-
mie T. Sylvester; and Frank W.
Wright.

Junior selections were James W.
deYoung; James M. Morris; and
Stephen P. Smith, III.

 

= GENE B. HANSLEY of Altavista has
been named assistant director of in-
formation services.

Hansley, 27, assumed his duties
December 26, succeeding A. Pres-
cott Rowe, ‘60, who resigned to
take a public relations position
with the Reynolds Metals Com-
pany of Richmond.

Formerly employed’ by _ the
Lynchburg News, where for two
years he was religious editor and
feature editor, Mr. Hansley prev-
iously worked for three years as an
advertising copywriter in the ad-
vertising department of the pub-
lishing agency of the Southern Bap-
tist Convention in Nashville, Tenn.

He is a 1956 B.A. graduate of the
University of Richmond and _ has
studied at the University of ‘Ten-
nessee’s Nashville Extension and
at the University of North Caro-
lina summer session.

His Washington and Lee work
will involve him in general public
relations, with emphasis on _ rela-
tions between the University and
representatives of the press, radio,
and television media.

= WILLIAM G. ALBRIGHT has assumed
his new duties as manager of the
Slater Food Service at Evans Din-
ing Hall.

Mr. Albright succeeds Merle
Campbell Bartley who has held the
position since the dining hall was
opened in 1959. Mr. Bartley now
manages one of the Slater-served
cafeterias at North Carolina State.

Although a native of Georgia,
Mr. Albright calls Florida home.
He graduated from the St. Peters-
burg high school and is a gradu-
ate of Florida State University,
majoring in restaurant and hotel
management. While doing gradu-
ate work at Florida State, he was a
partner in a restaurant business in
Tallahassee.

Following this, Mr. Albright
served as director of food service
at the Bainbridge Air Base in
Georgia and later was with the
Dobbs House chain, serving as
manager of a coffee shop at the
Atlanta Municipal Airport and

16

manager of an airport restaurant
in Birmingham, Ala. Other cafe-
teria management work has been
at Tennessee State College and the
University of Alabama.

Mr. Albright is married and has
two sons, aged eight and eleven.

™ THE WORLD premiere of a new
song cycle by Ezra Laderman, com-
missioned especially for the occa-
sion, was presented by George Hoff-
man, bass-baritone, on December
4 in Lee Chapel.

Presented by the Concert Guild,
Mr. Hoffman sang Laderman’s
“Five Michelangelo Songs’ in ad-
dition to selections by Handel,
Schubert, Schumann, and Richard
Strauss.

 

w THE AMOUNT of financial aid the

University awards undergraduates
has climbed to a new high in the
current session.

Dean Lewis John, Director of
Student Financial Aid, reports 246
students are receiving $191,365 in
assistance. Included in these figures
are fifty freshmen who are getting
$46,560.

This total compares with $154,-
119 awarded 200 students in the
1960-61 session—the first year of the
University’s expanded financial aid
program whose purpose is to make
Washington and Lee education
available to all qualified high
school students, regardless of their
financial limitations.

Through this program, a total
of $189,940 was awarded under-
graduates last year.

‘The program gives assistance in
the form of a scholarship, loan,
campus job, or any combination of
the three. Dean John says a major-
ity of students receiving aid this
year are being helped through a
scholarship-loan combination.

Repayment of these loans does

not begin until a student gradu-
ates, enabling him to pay part of
the cost of his college education
when his earning power is estab-
lished. All loans are from Univer-
sity sources.

Students also earn part of the
expense of their education through
campus jobs as dining hall work-
ers, dormitory counselors, or helpers
in the offices of academic depart-
ments and administration officials.

‘The average amount of aid giv-
en undergraduates this year is $778.
The highest amount awarded _ is
$2080 through a_ scholarship-job
combination. The biggest amount
given through a scholarship alone
is $1800.

‘The two top financial aid awards
the University gives are the George
F. Baker Scholarships and the Rob-
ert E. Lee Scholarships.

A gift from the George F. Baker
Trust of New York City established
the Baker Scholarships at Washing-
ton and Lee in 1960. In the current
session, six freshmen and ten up-
perclassmen are sharing $16,800.

The Robert E. Lee Scholarship
Fund was established in 1955 with
a $200,000 gift from an anonymous
donor. Including four freshmen, a
total of twelve undergraduates are
receiving $13,600 from the fund
this year.

Financial aid given by Washing-
ton and Lee is awarded on the basis
of merit and need. In considering
a student for financial assistance,
Dean John says a boy’s academic
record and potential for develop-
ment are considered along with his
need for assistance in meeting ex-
penses.

‘The actual amount of aid given
is determined by procedures adopt-
ed by 516 institutions participating
in the College Scholarship Service.
‘This includes consideration of a
family’s income, assets, number of
dependents, debts, and all unusual
expenses.

Both the academic record and
need of each student receiving fi-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

nancial aid are reviewed each year.
Those holding any scholarships or
receiving other kinds of aid must
maintain a satisfactory academic
record each year to continue re-
celving assistance.

Not included in the $191,365
awarded undergraduates in the
1963-64 session is the approximate-
ly $19,735 given to forty-one stu-
dents in The School of Law.

Also not added to the $191,365
are grants made to Robert E. Lee
Research Assistants.

mw JOHN CLARK, captain of Washing-
ton and Lee’s Debate ‘Team was
chosen the best speaker out of a
field of fifty-six debaters, represent-
ing ten Virginia and District of
Columbia colleges and universities
at the Delta Sigma Rho-Tau Kappa
Alpha Dist. 3 Debate Tournament
at Williamsburg.

Clark and Jack Eure, debating
on the afhrmative side of the na-
tional debate question, were chos-
en as the best afirmative team at
the tournament by winning three
of four debates. Eure tied for sec-
ond place, just one point behind
Clark in the speaker ratings.

Both Clark and Eure are senior
debaters. Clark as a freshman in
1960-61 won more debate awards
than anyone else at Washington
and Lee, and was a member of the
State Championship Debate Team
both in 1960 and 1961. Eure is a
member of the ‘Tau Kappa Alpha
Forensic Fraternity.

z# A ROANOKE student has been
awarded third place prize for his
entry in the 1963 national essay
contest of the American Society for
Personnel Administration (ASPA).

Lynn R. Hammond, III, received
a prize of $50 for his essay, which
will be published in a forthcoming
issue of The Personnel Adminis-
trator, the ASPA’s national publi-
cation.

Hammond’s entry was one of
eighty-three submitted by students

WINTER 1964

 

Lynn R. HAMMOND, III

from twenty-two colleges and unt-
versities throughout the United
States and Canada.

m SIX SENIORS have been designated
as Distinguished Military Students
by the ROTC staff. They are Rob-
ert E. Lee, Washington, D.C.; Wil-
liam B. Ogilvie, Jr., Shreveport,
La.; Norman E. Youngblood, III,
Fayetteville, N.C.; John M. Mad1-
son, Jr., Shreveport, La.; James H.
Wallenstein, Dallas, ‘Texas; and
Frank W. Wright, Blacksburg, Va.
Each received certificates from Lt.
Col. Jack Birch, head of Washing-
ton and Lee’s Military Department.

 

w EDGAR H. MACKINLAY, senior law
student from McConnellsburg, Pa.,
has been named editor of the Law
Review for the second semester.

A graduate of Mercersburg Acad-
emy, MacKinlay received his B.S.
degree from Washington and Lee
in 1958. He is a member of Omi-
cron Delta Kappa, honorary lead-
ership fraternity, and Phi Alpha
Delta, legal fraternity. He _ has
served as an associate editor of the

Law Review and is president of his
class. He is listed in Who’s Who in
and Univer-

American Colleges
sities.

 

B® EIGHTEEN faculty members have
been awarded $7,020 in grants-in-
aid from the John M. Glenn Fund
for projects in their respective
fields during the coming summer
and fall.

Established in 1953, the Glenn
program is supported through a
120,000 gift from the late John M.
Glenn who was an official of the
Russell Sage Foundation and an
1879 graduate of Washington and
Lee.

The 1964 recipients, their aca-
demic departments and_ projects
are:

James R. Baird, biology, for com-
pletion of anatomical studies for
Ph.D. research project at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina.

Dr. Jay D. Cook, Jr., accounting,
to conduct research in risk man-
agement for the purpose of orient-
ing the economics course, Princi-
ples of Insurance, toward this
broader area.

Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, Eng-
lish, to complete research at the
University of Virginia for three
papers on Matthew Arnold.

John F. DeVogt, commerce, for
preparation of the final draft of his
Ph.D. dissertation.

Dr. Cecil D. Eby, Jr., English, to
continue research at the Widener
Library, Harvard University, for
manuscripts in preparation on Poe,
Hawthorne, Melville and the siege
of ‘Toledo.

Dr. Lyman R. Emmons, biology,
to continue research on “A Cyto-
genetic Study of Atypical Hu-
mans.”

Thomas E. Ennis, Jr., account-
ing, for preparation of the final
draft of his Ph.D. thesis.

17

A highlight of the Christmas season for children of Washington and Lee’s fac

Brett W. Hawkins, political sci-
ence, to develop two case studies
on the consolidation of 1962 of
Nashville and Davidson County,
‘Tennessee.

Dr. Louis W. Hodges, religion, to
continue investigation of tradition-
al and contemporary theories of
Christian social ethics.

Dr. Allen W. Moger, history, to
continue research on a book, Vir-
ginia in Transition, 1880 to 1979.

Dr. Chaplain W. Morrison, his-
tory, to continue research on the
reciprocal influence of the Wilmot
Proviso and the Democratic Party,
1846-1848.

Dr. James S. Patty, romance
languages, to complete research in
Paris on Hippolyte Babou, French
journalist and critic.

Dr. Edward L. Pinney, political
science, to study the political atti-
tudes and orientation of the West

18

German civil service with particu-
lar attention to the upper echelons
of the administrative services in
three of the West German states.

O. W. Riegel, journalism, to par-
ticipate on the program of the Gen-
eral Assembly, International Asso-
ciation for Mass Communications
Research in Vienna, Austria, and
to study effects of mass communica-
tion in central and eastern Europe.

B. S. Stephenson, German, to at-
tend a six-week summer session at
a German university and to do re-
search on Carl Spitteler in Switzer-
land.

Robert Stewart, fine arts, to es-
tablish a library of his more recent
works at the American Music Cen-
ter, New York City.

Herman W. ‘Taylor, Jr., ancient
languages, to complete work on his
Ph.D. dissertation at the Univer-
sity of North Carolina.

Dr. George S. Whitney, chemis-

 

ulty and staff was a party given for them by PRestDENT and
Mrs. Cote at the President’s house. In the photograph, a magician evokes delighted expressions from his young audience,

try, to conduct research on thio-
lacetic acid at the University of
Basel, Switzerland. His Glenn
Grant supplements a_ fellowship
awarded by the
Foundation — for
change.

American-Swiss
Scientific  Ex-

u MEMBERS Of the faculty of the
School of Commerce and Admin-
istration have had a busy fall and
winter.

Professor Milton Colvin, Profes-
sor Edward L. Pinney, Mr. Delos
D. Hughes, and Mr. Brett W. Haw-
kins attended the Southern Politi-
cal Science convention at Gatlin-
burg, Tenn., October 31 to Novem-
ber 2. Dr. Pinney, who was elected
for a three-year term to the Execu-
tive Council of the Association,
gave a paper entitled “A Declara-
tion of Interdependence.”

Attending the Southern Econ-
omic Association conference at

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

SS

Roanoke, November 14 to 16 were
Dean Lewis W. Adams, Professors
Edward C. Atwood, Jr., Harmon H.
Haymes, Stanley ‘I’. Lowry, Charles
F. Phillips, Jr., and Mr. John F.
DeVogt. Professor Lowry gave a
paper entitled “Greek Social ‘Theo-
ry Pertaining to Economics’ and
Professor Phillips gave a_ paper,
written with George R. Hall, en-
titled “Implications of the Market
Power Standard for Antimerger
Policy.”

Two other articles written by
Professor Phillips and Mr. Hall
were published this fall: “Good
Faith, Discrimination and Market
Organization” in The Southern
Economic Journal, and “Economic
and Legal Aspects of Merger Liti-
gation, 1950-1962” in Houston
Business Review.

DR. DAVID W. SPRUNT, University
chaplain, attended an eastern re-
gional conference of the National
Association of College and Univer-
sity Chaplains in Washington, D.C.,
in December.

B THREE compositions by Robert
Stewart, associate professor of fine
arts, were presented on a Compos-
ers Forum concert at the Donnell
Library in New York on January
18.

Included on the program were
“Trio No. 5 for Viola, Clarinet,
and ‘Trombone,’ “Five Miniatures
for Piano,” and “Five Movements
for Bassoon and_ Four _ Instru-
ments.”

 

# DR. HUGH KENNER, chairman of
the Department of English at Santa
Barbara College of the University
of California, was presented in a
lecture December 5 by the Sem-
inars in Literature.

Topic of his lecture was “Mari-
anne Moore.”

WINTER 1964

# SPONSORED by the History Depart-
ment, Dr. Clement Eaton, professor
of history at the University of Ken-
tucky, lectured on “The Mind of
the Old South” on December 9g.

@ JOHN LUKACS, a leading authori-
ty on Eastern Europe, the Cold
War, and public opinion, spoke on
“From Cold War to Cold Peace—
the End of Ideology?” on January
16. He was sponsored by the De-
partment of Journalism and Com-
munications.

& A PRIVATE industry representative
who has worked in the govern-
ment’s Apollo program to land a
man on the moon lectured in Feb-
ruary under sponsorship of the
School of Commerce and Adminis-
tration.

K. D. Remington, director of
Technical Programming, Apollo
Engineering Space and Informa-
tion Systems Division of North
American Aviation, Inc., spoke on
“Problems in A ‘Technologically
Advanced Industry: Industry in
the Service of Government.”

@ RELIGION and sociology were re-
lated to each other by a man cur-
rently working in both fields in a
two-day Seminar in Religion in
February. Dr. Ephraim Fischoff of
Lynchburg, rabbi of Congregation
Agudath Sholom and professor of
humanities and social science at
Lynchburg College, spoke on “‘So-
ciology and Religion” and “Relig-
ion and the Contemporary Social
Order.”

# TWO UNITED STATES Government
officials were featured speakers dur-
ing the University’s International
Relations Week in February.

Dr. Jack N. Behrman, Assistant
Secretary of Commerce for Domes-
tic and International Business,
spoke on “The Common Market
and Underdeveloped Nations.’ Dr.
Behrman taught economics at

Washington and Lee from igs2 to
1957:

Phillips ‘Talbot discussed — the
area of the world he deals with as
Assistant Secretary of State for
Near Eastern and South Asian Af-
fairs.

 

m# A GRANT Of $5,000 has been re-
ceived from the E. I. duPont de

Nemours and Company as part of
that corporation’s program for
strengthening the teaching of sci-
ence and related subjects.

‘The grant consists of $2,500 for
chemistry and $2,500 for other sub-
jects that contribute importantly
to the education of scientists and
engineers.

# A GIFT of $4,700 from an anony-
mous alumnus has established the
John F. Kennedy Memorial Fund
at the University.

The fund will provide financial
aid for deserving students who are
studying or plan to study in fields
related to the government.

# THE LEE Memorial Journalism
Foundation has received a grant of
$1,000 from the Reader’s Digest
Foundation to “enhance the value
of journalistic training and experi-
ence of students during 1963-64.
Professor O. W. Riegel, director
of the Lee Foundation, says the
grant will augment a “research
travel fund” established last year
with a simular grant of $1,000 from
the Reader’s Digest Foundation.

WASHINGTON AND LEE has been
chosen as one of 500 American col-
leges and secondary schools to share
in the 3M Company’s ‘Assistance
Grant to Education” program.
Each of the participating insti-
tutions has received an award of
visual communications equipment,
consisting of overhead transparen-

1g

cy projectors, two copying ma-
chines, and supphes for making
projection transparencies.

In a letter to President Fred C.
Cole, President Bert S. Cross of the
3M Company said that Washington
and Lee and other program partici-
pants were chosen from among
14,000 American colleges and. sec-
ondary schools who submitted pro-
posals to the company’s educational
program.

“It is a great reflection on your
resourcefulness and demonstrated
interest in improved classroom
communication that yours was se-
lected among so many worthy can-
didates,’’ President Cross wrote.

Expressing the university's ap-
preciation for the award, President
Cole commended the 3M Company
for its “gratifying interest” in Am-
erican education, both at the col-
lege and school levels.

President Cole said Washington
and Lee will use the projectors to
supplement other modern teaching
aids now in use in its classrooms
and laboratories.

Neal C. Allard, branch manager
of Gallant, Inc., of Roanoke, area
distributor for 3M Company ther-
mo-fax visual products, conducted
a demonstration class for professors
in the various classroom applica-
tions of the projection equipment.

=# GERMAN teaching and scholarship
at the University has been boosted
with a gift of books, records, and
tape recordings from the Goethe
Institute, Munich, Germany.

The institute, whose purpose is
the teaching of the German lang-
uage to people of all ages, sent the
gift to Washington and Lee
through the Atlanta, Ga., consu-
late of the Federal Republic of
Germany.

About 150 items valued at ap-
proximately $500 are included in
the gift. The tape recordings and
records already have been put into
use in the language laboratory to
help students improve their Ger-
man speaking ability.

All books will be available to

undergraduates taking German
courses. Also they will be used by
the German faculty as supplement-
ary and illustrative material in
classes.

THE LATE JOHN MARTIN, °26, of
Wilmington gave to the Geology
Department of Washington and
Lee lapidary equipment which will
be used in preparing thin sections
of rocks and minerals for identifi-
cation and for petrologic studies.
The equipment is valued at
$300.00.

At the same time Mr. Martin do-
nated a collection of polished min-
eral and rock slabs and a collection
of semi-precious and precious stones
including rubies, sapphires, tourma-
lines, garnets, and others. ‘There are
approximately two hundred speci-
mens in the collection. Part of the
collection is on display in the Geo-
logy museum on the basement level
of Howe Hall.

Mr. Martin died December 8
in a tragic crash of a commercial
airliner near Philadelphia.

20

Founders’ Day Thought

HE FOUNDERS’ DAY ADDRESS On January 1gth was
i delivered this year by Dr. William W. Pusey, ITI,
Dean of the College. His talk was an excellent ap-
praisal of the University’s “identity” and he expressed
his concern for the future in this way:

“We cannot afford inertia at Washington and Lee,
and I detect little of it here. ‘The quality and the image
of an educational institution do not remain = un-
changed. In a decade or so the ridiculed Podunk can
become an excellent university, while conversely the
ivy-covered ‘name’ college could tumble into ‘Podunk-
ism,’ if it doesn’t intelligently and vigorously keep up
with evolving, bustling society. We at Washington
and Lee have problems and opportunities with which
we must continue to grapple as men of good will,
realizing that never will—or indeed never should—
everything ‘come out even,’ or have a final solution.”

 

 

DEAN WILLIAM W. Pusey, III

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Bob McHenry, °56, Resigns
Basketball, Lacrosse Jobs

yy. the winter sports

news was the resignation of J.
Robert McHenry, °56, as head
basketball and lacrosse coach, effec-
tive in June.

Bob McHenry, who took over
both sports in 1958 at the age of
24, said he would take a position
at Lebanon Valley College, in Ann-
ville, Pa., where he would be head
basketball coach, tennis coach, and
an assistant football coach.

Athletic Director and head foot-
ball coach at Lebanon Valley is
Wilham McHenry, ‘53, former
Washington and Lee football and
lacrosse standout, and Bob’s older
brother.

During the younger McHenry’s
five years at Washington and Lee,
his basketball teams won 27 and
lost 65, while his lacrosse teams
compiled an overall record of 13-
98-1.

Athletic director E. P. “Cy”
‘Twombly has begun a search for
a successor to McHenry. He said he
is seeking a man who can “do the
job in basketball that Lee Mc-
Laughlin has done in football.”
Twombly admitted that such a per-
son may be hard to come by, but he
indicated that the men under con-
sideration are highly promising.

Twombly emphasized that Mc-
Henry’s decision to leave Washing-
ton and Lee was entirely the young
coach’s own. McHenry had indicat-
ed last year that he was interested
in making a change. ‘I'wombly
praised McHenry’s coaching work
at Washington and Lee and cited
how he had been handicapped by
injuries to key players, academic

WINTER 1964

losses, and a general shortage of
talent in both basketball and _ la-
crosse.

Whoever takes over McHenry’s
basketball job will inherit a team
that won only four games while
dropping thirteen. The 1963-64
Generals got off to a relatively good
start, and stood 3-3 after their first
six games, but a long dry spell set
in that wasn’t broken until the last
regular season game against Rich-
mond Professional Institute, a team
that had beaten them handily
earlier. In the opening round of
the College Athletic Conference
tournament at Memphis, the Gen-
erals lost to Centre College.

There was one bright spot in
the all-round play of Louie Pater-
no, the Generals’ fine guard who
led all scorers with an 18-point
average per game. Paterno, a jun-
ior, will head up a veteran squad
of improving Generals next year,
but many basketball followers at
Washington and Lee feel that the

Generals are still several years away
from a real revitalization of the
‘ame.

Other teams on the winter sports
circuit fared this way:

Coach Norris Eastman’s swim-
mers managed to squeeze out a win-
ning season with a 6-5-1 mark
against perhaps the strongest sche-
dule ever taken on by Washington
and Lee mermen.

With freshman Dick Musick of
Norfolk providing a bright prom-
ise of future victory, Coach Dick
Miller’s wrestlers finished all even
at 5-5 for the year. ‘he season was

iw

somewhat of a disappointment, as
“injuries and a tough schedule ate

into the win column.

The rifle team was far off target
with a record of 1-9-1, and the
freshman basketball team of Coach
Joe Lyles surprised with a 9-3 sea-
son against prep school opposition.

In football activity, right half-
backs Bill David and ‘Tom Cren-
shaw were elected co-captains for
1964, and Coach McLaughlin is
considering adjusting his offense to
take advantage of both boys’ talents
at the same time.

After an alumni team of out-
standing players from the 1960,
1961, 1962, and 1963 banner teams
defeated the varsity 20-0 at the end
of spring drills, McLaughlin
seemed ready to adjust. things some
more, os

 

Football co-captains for 1964: TOM CRENSHAW, left, and Bitt. DAvip

21

Lee Chapel’s

Erben Pipe Organ,

Silent for Years, Is Heard Again

EE CHAPEL’s most cherished pos-
Ee session may eventually be its
Erben pipe organ, erected in 1872
by “the father of American organ
builders.”

That is the prediction of several
prominent musicians, among them
the widely-known organist of Chi-
cago’s Fourth Presbyterian Church,
Wyatt M. Insko.

Said Insko:

“Its (the organ’s) value will be-
come increasingly important not
only in historical context, but as a
record of a musical milieu.”

Insko called the restoration of
the organ—built by New Yorker
Henry Erben—“one of the few in-
telligent restorations of historical
American organs that has been
done for this (post Civil War) pe-
riod.”

For a gg-year-old organ which
was replaced -in the 1930's by an

 

This article, written by Washington
and Lee sophomore MAvricE FLIEss_ of
Clifton Forge, Va., appeared in the special
supplement published by the Roanoke
Times upon the rededication of Lee
Chapel last October.

22

Restoration of the Historic
Instrument, Part of the Ford
Project at Lee Chapel, Draws
Widespread Praise from the Public

By MAvRICE FLIEss, '66

electric organ, then left to deter-
iorate, its newfound status is a com-
plete switchover from times past.

A total of $7,000 of the $370,000
Ford Motor Co. Fund allotment
for the Chapel work was set aside
by Washington and Lee Univer-
sity President Fred Carrington Cole
to restore the Lee Memorial, or Er-
ben Organ.

Lawrence Walker, a 44-year-old
Richmond organ builder, was em-

ployed for the project.

In July 1961, soon after the re-
storation project at the Chapel got
under way, the organ was disman-
tled and shipped to Walker's
Goochland County workshop.
There, the veteran organ builder
cleaned and refurbished the organ’s
320 pipes—many of which had been
bent and warped. In addition, felt
and leather were installed within
the valves, and the pine case of the
organ, which had been dulled by a
dark walnut stain, was refinished.
The case was reworked by a Lynch-
burg furniture firm. sy

The organ was constructed in
1872 and placed in the Chapel bal-
cony, in memory of Gen. Robert E.
Lee, who during his tenure as

President of Washington College
(now called Washington and Lee
University), had expressed a desire
for an organ in the Chapel.

Mrs. M. J. Young, a ‘Texan who
was a friend of the University, an-
nounced soon thereafter that she
would attempt to raise sufficient
money to pay for an organ.

As recorded in the Feb. 11, 1871
issue of the University magazine—
the Southern Collegian (Vol. II,
No. 9)—Mrs. Young wrote to a
friend in Lexington:

“Texas must—I am almost im-
pelled to say she (Texas) shall—do
the whole of 1t.”

In the same letter, Mrs. Young
revealed a very touching incident
concerning her campaign to pro-
duce funds to finance the building
of a Lee Memorial Organ.

“An old man, who refused to
give his name, approached my son,
and said, ‘Is this Dr. Young, son of
Mrs. M. J. Young?’ Being answered
in the affirmative, he drew from
his pocketbook a silver half-dollar,
and said, ‘Here is a contribution
for the Lee Memorial Organ. It is
a very small sum, but it is all I

9 3?

have’.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

WINTER 1964

 

GrorcE K. TAytor at the Erben organ keyboard.

As a result of the generosity of
that unknown donor and many like
him, the financial end of the organ
project was culminated successfully.

The rest was up to Henry Erben,
who was hired to build a seven-stop
organ in his New York factory.

Termed the “father of American
organ building’ by many, Erben
worked on the organ for six months
before March, 1872, when he sent
the parts to Lexington for assem-
bly.

Meanwhile, the Lee Chapel bal-
cony was re-inforced in preparation
for the 2,000 pound instrument
which was to be situated against
the back wall of the chapel’s tower.

Originally hand pumped, the
organ was first used in early April
1872, and it has been suggested
that the musical notes which flowed
gently out of its pipes were a prim-
ary factor in the ever-increasing at-
tendance at daily chapel services
at Washington College.

‘There was an introductory con-
cert in May 1872, at which the
chapel choir was accompanied by
the organ and several other instru-
ments.

After that time, very little is
known of the Erben Organ.

In the 1930's, ‘The United
Daughters of the Confederacy re-
placed the Lee Memorial organ in
favor of an electric organ. Until the
summer of 1961, the famous instru-
ment remained in the_ balcony
while its more modern counterpart
was used once a year at Washington
and Lee’s June baccalaureate ser-
vices.

Now that the Erben Organ has
been restored, it will be used peri-
odically. A  dedicational concert
was given March 1 by George K.
Taylor, Washington and Lee sen-
ior, whose interest in the Erben
Organ as a student research project
helped convince University offici-
als that the organ should be re-
stored. (Dr. James. G. Leyburn
played the organ for the Chapel’s
rededication on October 11.)

23

PLAN NOW to be in Lexington in Fune

A Big “Quinquennial’’ Reunion

Coming Up for All Alumni

HE FOURTH quinquennial Gen-
nae Reunion of All Classes is
scheduled for June 11, 12, 13. The
date follows graduation ceremonies
at both Washington and Lee and
V.M.I. Its choice by the 1964 Re-
union Committee was influenced by
Lexington’s limited lodging facili-
ties. Commencing with the Bicen-
tennial in 1949, Washington and
Lee has continued its practice of
holding a big reunion of all classes
every fifth year. A large number of
alumni can attest to the outstand-
ing success of these gatherings in
1954 and again in 1959.

For the second time, the four
anniversary classes will merge their
reunions with the General Re-
union. Each year, except the 1959
quinquennial, the 50th, 4oth, 25th,
and ioth anniversary classes have
held their reunions in May. This
year, aS in 1959, the reunions of
these anniversary classes of 1914,
1924, 1939, and 1959 will be con-
solidated with the big celebration
in June. As in the past, the anni-
versary classes will be especially
featured in the program with indi-
vidual class banquets, special lead-
outs at the dances, and other events
of particular interest to them.

The reunion committee empha-

24

By WitLiaAM C. WASHBURN
Executive Alumni Secretary

sizes that alumni wives and families
are cordially invited. A program
for ladies will be featured and they
should enjoy each event. While it
should be noted that there will be
no baby-sitting arrangements, chil-
dren and teen-agers are invited,
and there will be special events in
the program for them.

The town of Lexington will be
practically yours. Most of the stu-
dents will be gone, although a few
remain to keep some of the frater-
nity houses open for alumni visi-
tors. You and your families will be
housed, by classes as far as possible,
in the hotels and motels in and
around Lexington. Members of the
earlier classes and the anniversary
classes will be assigned to those ac-
commodationss nearest the campus,
but all classes will be close by the
college and near familiar scenes.

Relax! Live again the days of
your youth. Visit with classmates
and friends, compare notes and talk
over “the good ole days.”

‘The program will be full, but
there will be ample time for relax-
ation. Included on the program are
golf, swimming and tennis outings;
a trampoline exhibition for chil-
dren, trips to Natural Bridge, Go-
shen Pass, and other nearby scenic

attractions. here will be the Pres-
ident’s welcome party, a law re-
ception, dances and a good time for
all.

On the serious side, returning
alumni wlil have an opportunity
to hear and talk with University
officials about Washington and
Lee’s current progress and its plans
for the future. All will share the
Opportunity to become better ac-
quainted with the Washington and
Lee of 1964. 3

In the past five years there have
been several important additions to
the campus and more are in prog-
ress. You will enjoy seeing the new
dining hall, the new dormitories,
and the new science facilities. You

~ will take pride in the beautifully

restored Lee Chapel, and view the
first stages of the renovation of Reid
Hall for an enlarged Journalism
and Communications department.

Literature with detailed infor-
mation is being mailed to each
alumnus. Begin now with your
plans to attend. Coordinate with
your classmates through your class
agent and start the ball rolling
for a group from your area to come
to Lexington. Make this Reunion
64 better than ever before!

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

~~

The Alumni Fund Is Nearing
$100,000 Mark of 1963-64 Drive

Alumni Support Is Encouraging,

But the Fund Council Renews Its

Plea for 100 Per Cent Participation

S THIS REPORT goes to press, the
A annual Alumni Fund _has
passed the half-way mark of its
165,000 goal for 1963-64. To date
1,635 alumni have made gifts total-
ling $97,800. ‘This sum represents
an approximate 27 per cent ad-
vance over this same date last year,
but the number of contributors is

running behind last year’s figure,
which at this time was 1,785.

The Alumni Council and all who
are directly connected with this
campaign urge your early response
to your class agent’s appeal in this
important effort. And it 1s impor-
tant. Much of Washington and
Lee’s continued progress depends
on the interest of each and every
alumnus in the University’s future.

Your gift is significant beyond
its monetary measure. Washington
and Lee is primarily concerned
with the education of the under-
graduate. Ironically, this has _be-
come a somewhat distinctive ap-
proach in an academic world where

WINTER 1964

increasingly larger emphasis is
now directed toward graduate study
and research activities. Your gift
helps strengthen the quality of un-
dergraduate preparation which is so
vital to young minds. Also, your
active interest and_ participation
strengthens the concept of the inde-
pendent, privately supported in-

stitution. If you value your Uni-
versity’s traditional emphasis on
quality education and if you value
your relationship with Washington
and Lee, you will want to sustain
its freedom and its strength.

The Alumni Fund Council has
placed special emphasis on the full
participation of every alumnus. It
must continue to strive for its goal
of 100 per cent support because it
is through participation that alum-
ni can best declare their faith in
Washington and Lee and their con-
cern for its future.

The University must maintain
and improve an already distin-
guished educational program. Its

task becomes easier when you are
an active, sincerely interested par-
ticipant in its welfare.

‘The alumni office is busily work-
ing on the 1964 Alumni Directory,
an undertaking requiring infinite
attention to detail. Moreover, it re-
quires the sincere cooperation of
every alumnus.

 

As a symbol of the vital relation-
ship between Washington and Lee
and its Alumni, a copy of the direc-
tory will be sent to each contribu-
tor to the 1963-64 Alumni Fund.
Perhaps it is one way of saying
“thanks.” Perhaps, too, it will sug-
gest to you that you have cared
enough about the continued
strength and vitality of Washington
and Lee to share in its future as
well as its past.

On behalf of the nearly one hun-
dred class agents and the hundreds
of regional agents and committee-
men, the Fund Council urges your
immediate attention to your
thoughtful response.

-

CHAPTER CGURRESPONDENTS

Appalachian—R. P. London, Jr., ’27, P. O.
Box 831, Johnson City, Tennessee

Arkansas—H. Tyndall Dickinson, ’41, 6
Palisade Drive, Little Rock

Atlanta—Farris P. Hotchkiss, ’58, 120 Bis-
cayne Drive, Apt. B-5

Augusta-Rockingham—J. B. Stombock, ’41,
Box 594, Waynesboro, Virginia

Baltimore—Richard C. Whiteford,
Arran Road

Birmingham—John V. Coe, ‘'25, 3421
Hill Road, Birmingham 13

Charleston, West Virginia—William T. W.
Brotherton, Jr., ’47, 612 Charleston Na-
tional Bank Building

Charlotte—Harry A. Berry, Jr.,
Abingdon Road, Charlotte, N.

Chattanooga—Gerry U. Stephens, ’50, 2720
Haywood Avenue

Chicago—Selden W. Clark, ‘55, 345 N.
Western Avenue, Chicago 12, Illinois

Cleveland—Robert H. Moore, Jr., ’44, 13802
Ardoon Road, Cleveland 20, io

Cumberland Valley—James L. Rimler, ’31,
N. Court St., Frederick, Maryland

Danville—Douglas K. Frith, °57, 5 Monroe
Arms Apartments, Martinsville, Virginia

Florida West Coast—Joseph H. Chumbley,
55, 205 Fifth Street North, St. Peters-
burg 1, Florida

Houston—Robert I. Peeples, °57, 2344 South
Boulevard

Jacksonville—William B. Barnett, °58, 4619
Apache Avenue, Jacksonville 10, Florida

Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, °49, 15 West
10th Street

Louisville—A. R. Boden, ’°52, 3310 Nanz

Lynchburg—S. Thomas Martin, 738, 89
North Princeton Circle

Mid-South—Wm. R. Carrington Jones, 54,
644 Commerce Title Building, Memphis,
Tennessee

New Orleans—John H. McMillan, °42, 1833
Webster Street, New Orleans 18, La.

New River-Greenbrier—Judge Robert J.
Thrift, Jr., ’31, Box 599, Fayetteville,
West Virginia

New York—Richard H. Turrell, ’49, 26 Ho-

_ bart Gap Road, Short Hills, New Jersey

Norfolk—Earle A, Cadmus, ’26. 303 New
Kirn Building, Portsmouth, Virginia

North Texas—C. M. Patrick, Jr., °55, 5358
Montrose, Dallas, Texas

Northern Leouisiana—Robert U. Goodman,
*50, 471 Leo Street, Shreveport, Louisiana

Palm  Beach-Ft. Lauderdale—Hugh 5%.
Glickstein, ’53, Suite 304-06 Atlantic Fed-
eral Building, 1750 East Sunrise Boule-
vard, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida

Peninsula—lI. Leake Wornom, Jr., ’50,
2219 Chesapeake Avenue, Hampton, Va.

Philadelphia—Stuart J. Bracken, °54, 727
Mt. Moro Road, Villanova, Pennsylvania

Piedmont—Robert F, Campbell, Jr., °42,
621 Nokomis Court, Winston Salem,
North Carolina

Pittsburgh—John E. Perry, °38, 1330 Ter-
race Drive

"BT, 905

"51, 3832
C.

Richmond—C. W. Pinnell, Jr., ’46, 701-703
West Broad Street
Roanoke—William R. Holland, °50, Moun-

tain Trust Bank, P. O. Box 1411
San Antonio—Robert H. Seal, °44, 417
Canterbury Hills, San Antonio, Texas
St. Louis—Burr W. Miller, °49, 6632 Pep-
peridge Drive, St. Louis 34, Mo.
Southern Ohio—Robert W. Hilton, Jr., ’38,
3277 Hardisty Avenue, Cincinnati 8, Ohio
Tri-State—Joe W. Dingess, ’21, 151 Kings
Highway, Huntington, West Virginia
ae eee C. Hubert, ’51, P. O. Box
3

Upper Potomac—Thomas N. Berry, ’38, 15
N. Alleghany St., Cumberland, Maryland

Washington, D. C. — Arthur Clarendon
Smith, Jr., ’41, 1813 You Street, N.W.

Wilmington—Russell F. Applegate, 52,
Street Road, Kennett Square, Pa.

 

If you move, contact the nearest
chapter correspondent for

news of meetings.

CLASS NOTES

1910

Harry J. LEMLEy is a retired U.S. Dist-
trict Judge, Eastern and Western Districts
of Arkansas. He is the author of numerous
articles on Confederate military history
and is author and co-author on papers
of Arkansas archaeology. Judge Lemley is
a member of the Sons of Confederate
Veterans and the Order of the Stars and
Bars.

1913

‘The Honorable EpwArp S. DELAPLAINE of
Frederick, Maryland, eminent jurist and
author, was presented the Regents’ Dis-
tinguished Service Award by the Uni-
versity of Maryland. This award, given
in the fall of 1963, was bestowed upon
three Maryland citizens who in the opin-
ion of the Maryland University Board of
Regents exemplify the ideals for which
the University stands. Judge Delaplaine
has served as a member of the Maryland
House of Delegates, as city attorney of
Frederick, and was chief judge of the
sixth Judicial Circuit and associate judge
of the Court of Appeals of Maryland
until 1957.

1915

Completing his fortieth year as Com-
monwealth’s Attorney in Louisa Coun-
ty (Va.), W. EARLE CRANK expects to re-
tire at the end of 1963. ‘Thereafter he will
devote his time to private practice.

1916

Following retirement from TVA in 1959,
E. B. “TED” SHULTZ spent four years as a
visiting professor at the N.Y. State School
of Industrial and Labor Relations of
Cornell University. He is now retired
again and lives in Norris, ‘Tennessee.

1918

Since his return from China in 1935,

JAMEs L. Howe, Jr., has been with Arthur
H. Thomas Company in Philadelphia. Re-
cently he visited his daughter, a corres-
pondent for the New York Times, in Mor-
rocco, North Africa.

1920

After forty-two years in service with the
American Sugar Company, WILLIAM E.
JOHNsTON will retire on his  sixty-fifth
birthday in January, 1964.

During the spring of 1963 C. E. KIEVLAN
from Houston, Texas, made an extended
tour through the Eastern United States.
In his travels he saw Eric B. HALLMAN,
30, who took him on a visit to Valley
Forge. In Bastrop, Louisiana, he talked
to E. L. GLADNEY, JR., ’19, who is associate
Judge in the Court of Appeals. Charlie
also made a visit to Apple Valley, Cali-
fornia, where he visited with ArT CRoM-
WELL, 19. He writes that in all of these
visits there was much reminiscing of the
old days.

1921

Though retired in 1961, MORTON FELSEN-
THAL manages to remain quite active. He
is a Regional Board member for the
Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts Council. He
is treasurer of the local library board
and a trustee of the State Library Board.
He lives in Brownsville, ‘Tennessee.

1923

EpwArD AULL, JR., has recently compiled
an Early History of Staunton and Bever-
ley Manor in Augusta County, Virginia.
The work is published by the McClure
Printing Company of Staunton, Virginia.
In this history Mr. Aull has some inter-
esting notes about Washington and Lee.

RAYMOND G. WICKERSHAM is pastor of the
Goose Creek Presbyterian Church, which
he organized, in Charleston, South Caro-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

lina. He is also minister to the college
students of the Charleston area, including
the Citadel, College of Charleston, and
the Medical College of South Carolina.
In October, 1962, Raymond was retired
from the Naval Reserve with the rank
of lieutenant-commander, after serving
twenty years as a Navy Chaplain.

1924

The chief engineer for Stonega Coke and
Coal Company is W. CLirForD SmirH. The
Big Stone Gap resident is also consulting
engineer for the town which is currently
involved with installing a new sewage
disposal system and water filtration plant.
Mr. Smith is serving a fourth term on
Town Council and is chairman of the
TVA Reforestration committee for the
surrounding counties. A past deputy dis-

trict Governor of Lions International,
he is now director of the Chamber of
Commerce and a member of the ‘Town’s
Planning Commission.

1926

Tuomas THORN Moore assumed the of-
fice of president of the Roanoke Cham-
ber of Commerce in January. Mr. Moore
is on the Board of Directors of the Shen-
andoah Life Insurance Company.

After thirty-two years in Government serv-
ice as a construction engineer, GEORGE L.
READ retired on December ist from the
Department of Health, Education and
Welfare. Mr. Read entered Federal serv-
ice in 1931 with the Office of Supervising
Architect, Treasury Department. He
served in World War II and in the Kore-
an War with the civil engineering corps

and came to the Public Health Service in
1946, where he had an important role in
developing regulations and procedures
under which the Hill-Burton hospital
program is carried out. Since 1957 Mr.
Head has headed the construction and
maintenance program of the PHS Divis-
ion of Indian Health. Mr. Read and his
wife plan to live in Florida.

1927

ALLEN Harris, JR., executive vice-president
of Harris Manufacturing Company in
Johnson City, Tennessee, is congratulat-
ed on his election as a new director of the
National Association of Manufacturers by
NAM chairman, William T. Brady. The
ceremony took place at the directors’ din-
ner of the 68th annual Congress of Ameri-
can Industry in New York in December,

1963.

Verbon Kemp Leaves Chamber of Gommerce Post

m= VERBON E. KEMP, executive direct-
or of the Virginia State Chamber of
Commerce for the past twenty-six
years, retired from that position
February 15 to become chief exe-
cutive of the Christian Children’s
Fund in Richmond.

Kemp, who succeeds Dr. J. Cal-
vitt Clarke as international director
of the organization, has served for
many years as a member of the
board of directors and secretary of
the world-wide non-denominational
organization which provides for
some 40,000 orphans in fifty-five
countries. CCF has a current in-
come of approximately $5 million
annually.

At Washington and Lee, Kemp
served as field secretary, alumni
secretary, and executive secretary
to the president from 1920 to 1929.

As a student he operated an hon-
or system canteen which received
national publicity. He also was the
founder of the Troubadours and
was a member of Omicron Delta
Kappa and Beta ‘Theta Pi, social
fraternity.

As alumni secretary he was the
founder and first editor of the

WINTER 1964

 

VERBON E. KEMP, ’22

Alumni Magazine. He compiled
and published the Alumni Direc-
tory of 1927 which was the second
such directory to be published in
the history of the University.

He became executive secretary of
the Charlottesville Chamber of
Commerce in 1929 and held that
post until he joined the State
Chamber in 1935 as general secre-
tary.

Kemp is publisher of “Uhe Com-
monwealth,’ monthly magazine of
the State Chamber, and is author
of the monthly column, “Notes and
Comments,” carried in the publica-
tion He is a trustee of the James-
town Corporation and a member of
the board of directors of the James-
town Foundation. He was a mem-
ber of the Virginia State Planning
Board, the Advisory Council on
the Virginia Economy and the Vir-
ginia 350th Anniversary Celebra-
tion commission.

Founder of the Virginia Cruise
Corporation, an organization dedi-
cated to the promotion of passen-
ger taffic through Virginia ports, he
has participated in or conducted
fifteen tours throughout the world
while serving as that organization's
executive director.

On the occasion of Mr. Kemp's
retirement from his position
with the State Chamber, James T.
Mathews, State Chamber _ presi-
dent, said, “His wise leadership
over the years of Virginia’s largest
organization of businessmen has
provided the state with that rare
combination of ability and_ fore-
sight granted to only a few.”

27

Roy G. NicuHots is the educational guar-
dian of four grandsons and two grand-
daughters. He reports that the two old-
est boys are entered at Fork Union Mili-
tary Academy with eyes toward Wash-
ington and Lee in 1968 and 1970. The
girls will lean toward Sweet Briar, and
he hopes to be around for the graduation
of all.

The Family Service Association of Ameri-
ca has announced newly elected vice-
presidents. They include Davin H. Wicer,
with life tenure, as Rabbi of Rodeph
Shalom Congregation, Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania. He has been a member of the
SAA Board since 1959, a board member
of the Family Service of Philadelphia, and
also of the National Conference of Chris-
tians and Jews.

1928

After a six-month study of transportation
in Ecuador, JOHN B, Ecker, with his wife
and two daughters, spent two months

28

 

ALLEN Harris, Jr., left, with NAM’s WILLIAM T. BRADY.

touring South America. They returned
to Potomac, Maryland, in September,

1963.

For his services to Southern agriculture
JAMEs B. NANCE, chairman of the Na-
tional Livestock and Meat Board, has
been named Man of the Year by the
Progressive Farmer. A Crockett County,
‘Tennessee, man, Mr. Nance was the first
president of the ‘Tennessee Livestock As-
sociation, a former chairman of the Na-
tional Swine Council, and is now a mem-
ber of the President’s National Agricul-
tural Advisory Commission.

1929

Epwarpd H. OuLp, president of the First
National Exchange Bank of Roanoke, was
elected chairman of the Board of Direct-
ors of the bank at their meeting in Jan-
uary.

Harry Gopwin’s life-long association with
music, particularly jazz, has culminated
in the addition of his own record label
to his collection of over 3,000 sides. His

 

record label is Jazzette, and he is in cele-
brated company on this first release of
his own composition, a recitation with
piano background. ‘The vocalist is famed
Dr. Edmond Souchon, the New Orleans
surgeon known the world over among
jazz fans for his knowledge and writing
about New Orleans music. Harry and
Dr. Souchon have been friends for many
years. Harry is a manufacturers represen-
tative of auto parts in Memphis, ‘Tennes.-
see,

C. ALFRED BAILEY, vice-president of Mer-
cantile National Bank of Dallas, Texas,
has been appointed to a 12-man national
marketing group that will work closely
with the U.S. Department of Commerce
to stimulate sales abroad by American
firms. ‘This top-level committee will coor-
dinate its work with that of the National
Export Expansion Council.

1930

GERARD E. GRASHORN is a trial lawyer in
Chicago and is a partner in the firm of
Winston Strawn Smith & Patterson.

1931

During World War II Horace W. WEsTON
served overseas in combat and intelligence
duties. He is now practicing law in New
York City with emphasis on labor-man-
agement relations. Harold has served on
several presidential emergency fact-find-
:ag boards and special boards of adjust-
ment for the Railway Industry. He and
his wife have three children.

Under the presidency and chairmanship
of FRANK MILTON SmitH, the Capital Cit-
ies Broadcasting Corporation, with offices
in a brownstone mansion in Manhattan,
enjoys a profitable business with a promis-
ing future. Mr. Smith himself has had
thus far a fantastic career in advertis-
ing and broadcasting—thirty years ago
an ad man for station WNEW, later the
general manager for WLW in Cincinnati,
then advertising manager for Gruen
Watch, and in 1946 agent and manager
for Lowell Thomas in a partnership that
has lasted ever since. One venture was
Thomas-(Mike) ‘Todd Productions which
obtained exclusive rights to Cinerama. By
1954 they had decided to enter TV. and
acquired broadcasting enterprises which
in 1957 became Capital Cities. The cor-
poration has shown steady profits since
1958 and continues to add stations within
the FCC regulations, hoping to add three
more radio stations and one more TV
station. Mr. Smith has also gone beyond
the broadcasting field by acquiring inter-
est in New York Subway Advertising, a
business holding an exclusive contract for
sale of subway advertising.

1932

R. W. REINHOLD has just returned from
two years of government employment
with A.D. in Brazil.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

Name Mour Candidate

In compliance with Article g of the By-Laws of the Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni, Inc., we are listing below the names of the
Nominating Committee for the coming year.

Under the By-Laws, any member of the Association may sub-
mit the names of alumni to fill the vacancies on the Alumni Board
of ‘Trustees and the alumni representative on the University Com-
mittee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

‘There are three vacancies to be filled on the Alumni Board of
Trustees and one vacancy for the alumni representative to the
University Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics. These vacan-
cies are to be filled at the June 1964 meeting of the Alumni Asso-
ciation. Members are urged to submit names of their candidates
for these offices. The Nominating Committee will close its report
on April 24, 1964. Present alumni trustees whose terms expire this
year are: Dr. John D. Battle, Jr., ’34, William B. Wisdom, ’21, and
IT. B. Bryant, Jr., 28. The term of Gilbert Bocetti, Jr., 54, on the
University Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics also expires
this year.

The Nominating Committee as appointed by the President of
Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., is as follows:

BARTON W. Morris, JR., 43 Chairman
2644 Robin Hood Road, S. E.
Roanoke, Virginia

MARVIN K. CoLuir, ’39
3415 Sleepy Hollow Court
Houston 19, Texas

 

RosBert W. HILTON, JR., 38
3277 Hardisty Avenue
Cincinnati 8, Ohio

 

 

 

 

WINTER 1964

Enjoying life in an 18th Century house,
Dr. WILLIAM D. Hoyr manages to stay
quite active in historical societies. During
this past summer and fall he did research
for a National Park site in Salem, Massa-
chusetts. Dr. Hoyt continues his work of
editing the John Carroll papers and esti-
mates publication will be in late 1964.
He writes that he recently had a_ nice
visit from CARSON HUNTLEY, ’35.

Dr. WILLIAM C. KNopr, Jr., formerly of
the University of Florida, is now professor
and chairman of the Department of Elec-
trical Engineering at the University of
Miami. He is also serving as acting chair-
man of the Division of Marine Technolo-
gy, a recently created department at this
university. Dr. Knopf is the author of
many scientific works, including a num-
ber of classified documents produced un-
der federal auspices.

R. L. McKINNey, JR., of Denison, Texas,
was appointed last August as Interstate
Compact Commissioner for the Red Riv-
er by Governor Connally. This group of
commissioners from Arkansas, Louisiana,
Oklahoma, and ‘Texas is writing a Com-
pact for Red River. Mr. McKinney is the
third commissioner to represent ‘Texas on
this work which has been in progress
since 1956.

Associate Justice GEORGE RosE SmirH of
the Supreme Court of Arkansas has been
elected a member of the Institute of Ju-
dicial Administration. The institute pro-
motes improvements in federal and state
courts, conducts studies in problems of
court congestion and modernization, and
publishes the results of research in ju-
dicial administration. Justice Smith
served as an instructor of the University
of Arkansas Law School and as a practic-
ing attorney before taking his present
position on the bench in 1949.

1933

Dr. Rosert R. SmirH has been appointed
medical director of McNeil Laboratories,
Inc., effective January 1, 1964. Dr. Smith
has been medical director of Warner-
Chilcott Laboratories since 1960 and prior
to that time was senior clinical associate
with Warner-Lambert Research Institute.

A reprint of the “History of Conecuh
County, Alabama” has been undertaken
by J. VERNON Brantley. ‘The original
history, by Dr. B. F. Riley, was published
in 1881. ‘The reprint will now include
an Index and a brief biographical sketch
and portrait of Dr. Riley. The release is
scheduled in the spring of 1964. Pre-
publication orders ($4.00) may be sent
directly to Mr. Brantley.

BERNARD B. “Dusty” Davis is being sworn
in as Commissioner of the Court of Ap-
peals by Judge Morris C. MONTGOMERY,
1930 Law. In the background is FRrep T.
MOFFATT, JR., 1950 Academic, who is

“Y

   

 

pastor of the First Baptist Church in Shel-
byville, Kentucky. A leading attorney in
Shelbyville, Dusty has practiced in his
home town since 1933 except for four
years duty with the FBI during World

War II. At the time of his selection to.

serve the State’s highest tribunal, he was
City Attorney for Shelbyville, where he
is also a deacon and Sunday school teach-
er at the First Baptist Church.

1934

RicHARD SALE has turned out a novel, The
Oscar, about the machinations involved
in the selection of the winners of film-
land's coveted awards, During the past
years Richard has written prolifically and
produced and directed radio and TV
shows and has written for the movies.
This recent work is published by Simon
and Schuster.

Scott Mosovick is completing his 25th
year at ‘Trenton Central High School in
business education department. He has re-
tired from coaching football and basket-
ball.

JupGE ‘THORNTON G. Berry is one of an
eminent group of jurists and national
leaders who have been chosen to select
the 1963 recipients of the National and
School Awards Programs of the Freedoms
Foundation at Valley Forge. The panel
will evaluate multi-thousands of nomina-
tions and will select individuals, organi-
zations and schools throughout the nation
to receive cash and honor medals for their
work in helping to bring about a better
understanding of the American Way of
Life.

30

 

Bernard B. Davis, ’33, is sworn as Commissioner of the Court of Appeals in Shelbyville,
Ky., by JupGE Morris C. Montcomery, ’g0L, while Rev. Fred T. MoFFaAtr, JRr., looks on.

1935

Harry M. RHETT, Jr., followed his work
at Washington and Lee with graduate
training and then served four and a half
years with the Army in World War II.
Now in Huntsville, Alabama, his business
is one of investments, although he owns
a farm and is president or director of
several local corporations. Active in civic

affairs, he is president of the Chamber of
Commerce, the Rotary Club, and the
Huntsville Industrial Expansion Com-
mittee, and is a_ trustee of Randolph
School. Harry and his wife have three
children.

With the U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture, Foreign Agricultural Service, Leroy
Honces, JR., has traveled to Africa, South-
ern Europe, the Philippine Islands, Hong
Kong, Singapore, Australia, and New
Zealand—all in the last six months.

RicHArRD T. KreLLey is with the publica-
tion division at Emerson Electric. The
division has become involved in audio-
visual training aids, and Dick is busy with
Program Instructions.

For the past twelve years Ropert B. MAYo
has operated a small business for the
manufacture of minor items used in pipe-
line construction. During recent years
Bob went to law school at night at South
Texas College and three years ago he re-
ceived his LL.B. degree and_ successfully
passed the Texas State Bar. He and his
wife have celebrated their twenty-fifth
wedding anniversary and are proud of
their two grandchildren.

1936

Ep Baum, III, is a manufacturers repre-
sentative in Norfolk, Virginia. He is mar-
ried to the former Mary Virginia Rush,
and the couple has two daughters.

For twenty-seven years OrAY M. Davis has
been in the engineering field, five years
in private industry and twenty-two years

 

The Honorable THORNTON G. BERRY, °34, second from right, served as a member of the

1963 Awards Jury of the Freedoms Foundation at Valley Forge. Also pictured are I-r,
Mrs. JENNIE HAYMAN, Navy Mother’s Club of America; DR. KENNETH D. WELLS, presi-
dent of the Freedoms Foundation; and Earu B. Musser, Sons of the Revolution.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

with the Federal Government. At present
he is assigned to the Corps of Engineers,
US Army T-7 Building in Washington.
Mr. and Mrs. Davis live on a farm in Fau-
quier County, Virginia, and raise beef
cattle.

1937

In December, 1963, WILLIAM C. WILBUR,
Jr., flew to London with a group of seven-
ty students and five members of the fac-
ulty of Florida Presbyterian College. He
is in charge of the group who will spend
the winter term studying the history of
London.

GEORGE RATHER JONES is an airline pilot
for Braniff International, flying to Den-
ver, Chicago, and Houston. He is mar-
ried to the former Eleanor Fordham of
Dallas, and the couple has two sons.

1938

SETH N. BAKER of Bloomfield, Connecticut,
has been appointed assistant manager for
labor relations in Monsanto Chemical
Company’s Personnel and Administrative
Services Department after serving as per-
sonnel director for the company’s pack-
aging division.

Dr. GRovER H. BATTEN was elected presi-
dent of the Hawaii Division of the Ameri-
can Cancer Society at a meeting in Hono-
lulu in December. Dr. Batten, long asso-
ciated with cancer control work in Hono-
lulu, will serve for the fiscal year, 1963-
64. He is also president of the board of
governors of the new Hawaii Medical Li-
brary Building which will be dedicated
this year.

1939

MARRIED: JOHN MEHLER and Miss Vir-
ginia Slocum of Moorestown, New Jersey,
were married on May 4, 1963. John is in
charge of the library at the University
of Alaska, and Virginia is also a librari-
an attached to the staff there. ‘The couple
spent Christmas with her parents in New
Jersey.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ‘THORNTON R.
CLEEK, a daughter, Margaret Brantley,
on December 2, 1963.

JouHn H. Warp, III, General Agent for
Aetna Life Insurance Company in Louis-
ville, Kentucky, was elected to the board
of trustees of the National Association
Life Underwriters in September, 1962. Jack
has been past president of the Louisville
and the Kentucky State Life Underwrit-
ers Association. He has regularly attend-
ed the NALU mid-year and annual con-
ventions since 1948 and has served as
chairman of the Field Practices Commit-
tee and as a member of numerous other
committees.

RANDOLPH M. DUNCAN is with the General
Electric Company in Owensboro, Ken-

WINTER 1964

tucky, in the electron tube phase of the
business. He has the responsibility for
purchasing, distribution, and quality con-
trol. The Duncans have a boy nine years
old and twins seven years old.

1940

A professor of history at ‘Tulane Univer-
sity, Dr. Hans A. SCHMITT is co-winner
of the George Louis Beer prize for 1963.
The award, presented by the American
Historical Association for outstanding
work in the field of European internat-
ional history since 1895, is one of the
most distinguished and important award-
ed by the association. The award was
shared jointly with Dr. Edward W. Ben-
nett, a faculty member at the University
of Chicago. Dr. Schmitt was awarded the
prize for his book “The Path to European
Union.”

In 1963 JOHN C. WHITE became Managing
Director and General Counsel for the
Private ‘Truck Council of America, Inc.
His offices are in Washington, D.C.

WENDELL R. “Bucky” Stoops is in the
food brokerage business in Shawnee Mis-
sion, Kansas. He and his wife have four
children, two daughters and two. sons.
The daughters are in college at Stanford
and at the University of Missouri. The
two sons are in the gth and grd grades.

Dr. FRANK S. BEAZLIE has recently been
inducted into the American College of
Surgeons. ‘The ceremony took place in
San Francisco last November. Dr. Beazlie
has a large practice in Newport News,
Virginia.

GILBERT GARDNER is now with the Hudson
Dispatch, a morning daily published in
Union City, New Jersey, and the only
morning daily in Hudson and Bergen
Counties, New Jersey.

 

MELLOR W. STEVENSON, 42

Homer D. Jones, Jr., is now director of
the Fund Development Division of the
Board of National Missions of the Unit-
ed Presbyterian Church with offices in
New York City.

1941

Recently ‘THOMAS S. ‘TUuLEy, JR., has been
in business for himself as a manufacturer’s
representative, selling furniture. He trav-
els Kentucky and Indiana.

WILLIAM LEE SHANNON has been elected to
the Board of Education of the Shelbyville
(Kentucky) Independent School District.
He and Mrs. Shannon have seven children,
five girls and two boys.

RiIcHARD M. HERNDON has completed a
tour with the Department of State in
Washington. He expects to spend an-
other year before his next overseas as-
signment in the Foreign Service. He and
his wife, Ginger, have a daughter who at-
tends George Washington University and
two sons, age sixteen and seven.

‘The new mayor of Maywood, New Jersey,
is CHESTER ECCLESTON. Chet beat his Dem-
ocratic rival for mayor by 200 votes.

1942

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Roserr_ T.
VAUGHAN, a fifth child and second daugh-
ter, Margaret Harrison, on July 24, 1963.

Ropert G. IscricG is in the general prac-
tice of law in Pontiac, Michigan. He con-
centrates on plaintiff negligence cases.

Having joined the Ford Motor Company
in 1956, ALEXANDER H. JorDAN has just
been named controller of the New York
Parts Depot. At the time of his appoint-
ment Alex was supervisor of the General
Accounting Department at the Atlanta
Parts Depot. He and his wife with their
four sons will move to New York.

A change to the real estate business was
made a year ago by Harrett F. Morris.
For seventeen years he had been in the
automobile field, including the _ Sales
Division of Ford Motor Company, manag-
ing positions with Ford dealers in Ral-
eigh, North Carolina, Richmond, and
Newport News, and owner of a Lincoln-
Mercury Dealership. Mr. Morris’ real es-
tate business is located in Newport News,
Virginia.

MELLOR W. STEVENSON has been elected to
the newly created office of Vice-President—
Marketing for the National Castings Com-
pany of Cleveland, Ohio. The position was
effective October 1, 1963. Mellor, who
joined National Castings in 1950 as a
sales trainee, has been promoted through
the sales division and in 1958 was named
vice-President—Sales of the ‘Transporta-
tion Products Division. He was appoint-
ed Vice-President and General Manager
of that division in 1961.

31

Evans JASPER is president of Manco Man-
ufacturing Company of Kankakee, Ili-
nois, a company supplying special hy-
draulic tools of the steel industry. He is
also vice-president and director of ‘Tim-
berline Equipment Company of Dallas,
Texas, which he founded to develop a
new pulpwood harvesting machine, the
Busch Combine. Other than business in-
terests, Mr. Jasper is completing his third
year on the School Board and is County
Chairman of the Percy for Governor Com-
mittee.

1943

S. PERRY SIMMONS has just been named a
vice-president, domestic sales, of Friden,
Inc. Perry, a native of Baltimore, joined
Friden in 1953 and has had assignments
in New Orleans and Atlanta, and is now
in the home office in San Leandro, Cal-
ifornia.

1944

FREDERICK B. ROWE is on leave from his
teaching duties at Randolph-Macon Wo-
man’s College. Fred has a research grant
from the National Institute of Mental
Health, and he and his family are in
Denmark where he is studying Den-
mark’s program for the mentally retard-
ed.

WILLIAM P. PEAK is a doctor specializing
in arthritis and rheumatic diseases. Bill
is past-president of the Kentucky chap-
ter of the Arthritis and Rheumatism So-
ciety and is chief of the arthritis clinic at
St. Joseph’s Hospital in Louisville. The
couple has two children.

EARLE PALMER BROWN of Earle Palmer
Brown Associates, Washington, D.C.,
took part in the opening of the new Con-
rad Hilton Vokyo hotel in June.

HARRISON. KINNEY is editor of IBM
Corporation’s magazine “Business Ma-
chines.” He is also working on the biog-
raphy of James ‘Thurber for McGraw-Hill
Publishers.

RicHArD L, (Dick) Hk&aArp has accepted a
position as Employment Service Adviser
with the United States Employment Ser-
vice, a branch of the US Department of
Labor in Washington, D.C. He had form-
erly been associated with the Virginia Em-
ployment Commission for seven years,
which gave him the necessary background
for his present assignment. Dick, his wife,
Millie, and their two children, Sharon
Lee and Richard Lewis, Jr., are resid-
ing in Arlington, Virginia.

1946

JEROME D. GREENBERG has been promoted
to executive vice-president of a compiex
of textile and plastics companies with
home office in West Conshohocken, Penn-
sylvania, He is also secretary and on the
board of directors of these companies. He
and his family live in Villanova, Penn-

32

sylvania, where Jerome is very active in
civic and professional groups.

1947

WILLIAM ‘T. ROMAINE is commercial man-
ager for WWOM-Radio in New Orleans.
He is also in charge of entertainment at
the Royal Orleans Hotel. Bill and_ his
wife, the former Ann Elizabeth Hayes,
have three daughters.

1948

Roserr ‘VT. BosseERMAN is a partner in the
CPA firm cf Bosserman and Ould with
offices in Harrisonburg, Lynchburg, and
Waynesboro. He is also vice-president of
the Virginia Society of Certified Account-
ants and vice-president of the Middle At-
lantic Accounting Conference.

After thirteen years in general law prac-
tice in Baltimore, JAcK L. GrossMAN has
become a partner in the firm of Wein-
berg and Green, one of the largest law
firms in Maryland. He specializes in cor-
porate and tax law. The Grossmans have
two sons.

James M. BALLENGEE, president of the
Philadelphia Suburban Water Company,
has been elected chairman of the Main
Line District, Valley Forge Council, for
the Boy Scouts of America. He will direct
the administration of the scouting pro-
gram in his area. Jim also serves as a di-
rector of the Chamber of Commerce for
Greater Philadelphia and is on the Met-
ropolitan Board of Directors for the
Y.M.C.A.

1949

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM Roy RIcr,
a son, William Randolph, on August 14,
1963.

NORMAN FIscHeR is Owner and operator of
a Spanish language radio station in San
Antonio. He is married to the former
Cecile Raylano of Sweetwater, ‘Texas, and
the couple has a two-year old son.

Having recently resigned as vice-president
of the Small Business Investment Com-
pany of New York, E. Stewart EpLrey
has joined American Can Company in its
finance department.

‘T. E. Fosrer, JRr., is treasurer, Union En-
velope Division, Hammermill Paper Com-
pany, Richmond, Virginia.

In January Mapison D. MCKEE was pro-
moted from vice-president and cashier
to senior vice-president and cashier of
the First National Exchange Bank of
Roanoke, Virginia.

PAuL J. B. Murpuy, JRr., is a leutenant
colonel in the Army. After finishing the
Armed Forces Staff College in January of
this year, he expects to be assigned duty
in Vietnam for a year.

1950

MARRIED: Dr. RoBERT HuUTCHESON

Mauck and Elizabeth Langhorne Sydnor
were married on November 30, 1963, in
Lynchburg, Virginia. Mrs. Mauck is a
graduate of Agnes Scott College. Among
the groomsmen were Dr. HENRY PAGE
MAUCK, JR., °47, DR. WILLIAM R. MAuck,
‘52 and LANDON WHITE TRIGG, 751.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Gerry U. STEPHENS,
a son, Gerry, Jr., on September 7, 1953.
Gerry is vice-president of the American
National Bank and Trust Company of
Chattanooga, Tennessee.

JAMEs Q. AGNEW is assistant vice-president
and in charge of the Virginia office of
Marsh and McLennon, Inc., international
brokers. The offices are in Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

‘THomaAsS 'T. Toncur, II, is the head of
the history department at Avon Old
Farms School in Connecticut. In 1959 he
married Barbara Gowdy, and the couple
has a son and a daughter. Tom is also
lacrosse coach for the school and for the
Connecticut Valley Lacrosse Club. He is
chairman of the Boys Work committee
of the Episcopal Diocese of Connecticut.

After a sabbatical year, most of which
was spent in Asia, ARTHUR MARENSTEIN
has returned to the social studies depart-
ment of Elmont Memorial High School
on Long Island.

Dr. JOHN S. CHAPMAN is practicing in-
ternal medicine in a three-man group in
Dubuque, Iowa. ‘The Chapmans have
six children.

Having served since 1951 as a home un-
derwriter, LAWRENCE RIKER has been pro-
moted to manager of ‘The Life Insurance
Company of Virginia’s new business is-
sue section. He lives in Richmond.

WALTER E. HUNTER moved from Kansas
to Scottsdale, Arizona, in June, 1963,
where he is now associated with the Russ
Lyon Real Estate Agency.

ArtHur A. Birney has published an ar-
ticle, “The People You Meet,” in Yacht-
ing Magazine for December, 1963. Art is
still practicing law in Washington, D.C.,
and is this year Commodore of the Na-
tional Yacht Club.

IrRvIN H. Wicknick is branch manager
for Crawford and Company, International,
casualty claims adjuster, with offices in
Allentown, Pennsylvania. He and Mrs.
Wicknick have two daughters, eight and
ten years old.

The Savings Bond Division of the U.S.
Treasury has appointed OLIver M. MEN-
DELL, vice-president of the Chemical Bank
New York ‘Trust Company, as the chair-
man of the Kings County Savings Bond
Committee. Mr. Mendell succeeds the
late Edmund W. Madden, who had head-
ed the committee until his recent untime-
ly death. He is active in numerous chari-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

table and civic activities and is current-
ly heading the United Hospital Fund
Business Men’s Drive in Brooklyn. Mr.
Mendell is also on the board of the
Brooklyn Psychiatric Center, as well as
the board of the U.S. Selective Service
Commission.

On January 1st WILLIAM S. HUBARD was
promoted by the Shenandoah Life Insur-
ance Company of Roanoke to Vice-presi-
dent and General Counsel. Bill has been
with Shenandoah since 1954 and _ was
elected General Counsel in 1962. He re-
ceived his CLU designation in 1960 and
is a Fellow of the Life Office Management
Institute. In the line of civic work, he has
served as chairman of City of Roanoke
Redevelopment and Housing Authority,
a director of the Roanoke Arthritis and
Rheumatism Foundation, a director of
the Roanoke American Red Cross, and of
the Kiwanis Club. He is a member of the
American, Virginia State, and Roanoke
Bar Associations, the Association of Life
Insurance Counsel, and the Roanoke Es-
tate Planning Counsel.

DoucLaAs M. EGeR is now a partner in the
law firm of Radford and Eger in Bedford,
Virginia.

ForD STEPHENS has been named special as-
sistant to the president of Woodard Re-
search Corporation at Herndon, Virginia.
Ford joined the firm as marketing direct-
or in 1962, and in his present position he
is responsible for public relations, mark-
eting and planning. Woodard Research
is primarily engaged in pharmaceutical re-
search for leading drug manufacturers
in the United States and Europe. The
company recently developed and market-
ed several electronic products, including
components of a future medical moni-
toring system for hospitals.

The new editor of The Commonwealth,
the magazine of Virginia, is JAMES S.
WaAMSLEY. The magazine is published
monthly in Richmond by the Virginia
State Chamber of Commerce. The Com-
monwealth recently won the top award
from the American Association of Com-
merce Publications for editorial skills and
content. Jim and his wife live in Rich-
mond with their two children.

1951

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. BurTon L. LITWIN,
a third son, Kenneth David, on Decem-
ber 27, 1963. Kenneth’s older brothers
are four and two years old.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. J. ALAN Cross, JR.,
a daughter, Melanie Jean, on December
4, 1963, in Coral Gables, Florida. Alan is
a C.P.A., and he and Mrs. Cross have four
other children.

In November, 1963, Louris PRESTON (PAT)
Coiiins, III, resigned from the practice
of law and is now advertising manager
for radio station WMEV in Marion, Vir-

WINTER 1964

ginia. He writes that he enjoys every
minute of the work.

As of August, 1963, JACK E. KANNAPELL,
Jr., joined the advertising agency of
Foote, Cone, and Belding of Chicago. He
is a member of the account management
group and has responsibility for Hiram
Walker, Inc., of Ontario, Canada.

HUNTER LANE, JR., making his first politi-
cal race, in November pulled an upset in
the eyes of many political observers when
he defeated a veteran incumbent by more
than 25,000 votes in the race for Public
Service Commissioner in Memphis, ‘Ten-
nessee. Hunter, who has practiced law
in Memphis with his father since 1955,
is not new to politics, however, for he
has managed two races for other candi-
dates and he has been politicking against
machine-rule government since the early
1950's. |

ANDREW W. GOTTSCHALL, JR., took office in
October as the regional director for the
Carolinas of the National Conference of
Christians and Jews. Before his move to
North Carolina he was regional director
for the Western Pennsylvania-West Vir-
ginia Region and in Pittsburgh he pro-
duced and moderated both TV and radio
shows featuring local and national per-
sonalities. He was also successful in de-
veloping public relations institutes and
workshops in human relations which drew
students from private, public, and paro-
chial schools.

The Las Vegas casino operator, Dick ‘TAy-
LOR, is author of a new book, Las Vegas,
City of Sin, which has just been released
by The Naylor Publishing Company. In
this book, Dick spells out reasons why
he believes that legalized gambling has
less than fifty years remaining in Nevada.
Taylor, an officer on the board of direct-

 

Dick TAYLOR, ’51, is author of a new book on Las Vegas gambling.

ors of the New Frontier and Hacienda
hotels, forecasts a booming Nevada but
a dying dice activity. ‘The book, in which
‘Taylor is joined by ex-nightclub singer
Patricia Howell as co-author, has stirred
controversy in many gambling quarters.

SoL WACHTLER was elected ‘Town Coun-
cilman of Great Neck, New York, in the
elections held last November. Sol easily
led the local GOP, showing exceptional
strength although a_ political newcomer.

Dave WoLF, JRr., has changed his business
associations and is now with Markel Ser-
vice, Inc., as resident vice-president.

Ropert H. Frecps, a Marine Corps com-
bat veteran and a former agent for the
FBI, was appointed sheriff of Marion
County (Indianapolis, Indiana) in Oc-
tober. At one time deputy state attorney-
general and deputy county prosecutor,
Bob is believed to be the first attorney
or former FBI agent ever to hold the
sheriff's office. He did not solicit the of-
fice—he was the subject of a draft move-
ment. When he was with the FBI he re-
ceived two personal commendations from
Director J. Edgar Hoover. In 1959 he left
the FBI to accept the position of state
deputy attorney-general, and then in 1961
he entered private law practice. He will,
however, now disassociate himself from
his law firm.

1952

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HeEnrY |. WILLETT,
JR., a son, Rodney ‘Turner, on September
8, 1963.

TToM GARDNER is now teaching at the Mc-
Lean School for Boys in Washington, D.C.

Having completed his military obligation,
RopBerT MASLANSKY is now engaged in the

33

private practice of medicine in Minneap-
olis, Minnesota.

At the request of the Episcopal Bishop of
Kentucky, ErRNrest H. CLARKE is serving
as chairman of the newly-formed board
of trustees for the diocesan conference
center. He has served on the mainten-
ance committee for the past two years.

After serving as head of the Suffolk bu-
reau of the Norfolk Ledger Dispatch for
nearly ten years, RIcHARD O. CARDEN be-
came director of public relations for the
Virginia Retail Merchants Association.
Recently Dick resigned from the VBMA
to become executive assistant of the Vir-
ginia Society of Professional Engineers. In
this new post he will publish the Society
quarterly magazine, The Virginia Engin-
eer, and will direct the annual convention
and trade show of the Society as well as
handle similar administrative duties.

For the next three years Pres MANNING,
JR., expects to be at the Queen Elizabeth
Hospital in Eastern Nigeria, Africa. He
will be there as a medical missionary.

CLirron T. Hunt, Jr., has entered the
private practice of law in Greensboro,
North Carolina. Ted has his own office
and specializes in patent, trademark and
copyright matters.

Harotp N. Hint, Jr., has been named a
partner in the Atlanta, Georgia, law firm
of Gambrill, Harlan, Russell, Moye and
Richardson.

In June, 1963, D. ‘TERRY WHITMAN, be-
came associated with Realty Funding
Company in Atlanta, Georgia, as an op-
erative builder of homes. He and _ his
wife, Gail, have one daughter.

JouN J. KinpRED has been elected an as-
sistant vice-president of Manufacturers
Hanover ‘Trust Company, New York. He
is in the personal trust estate adminis-
trative department. He joined the bank
in 1955 aS an executive trainee.

1953

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES MONZELLA,
a second son, David Glenn, on December
g, 1963. The Monzellas are living in Char-
leston, West Virginia, where Charles is
West Virginia Broadcasting Editor for the
Associated Press. In this capacity he was
in New York City in December as a mem-
ber of an AP Task Force to study broad-
cast wire reports from various states and
to write critiques to improve the quality
and content of AP news.

JoHN I. BowMANn will complete his resi-
dency in oral surgery at the Medical Col-
lege of Virginia in June, 1964, and plans
to open a private practice at Virginia
Beach.

After internship in Chicago’s Cook Coun-
ty Hospital and two years in Navy, T.
KYLE Creson, JR., is back in Memphis in

2

34

private practice of internal medicine. He
and his wife, Jayne, have two sons.

The American College of Life Underwrit-
ers has awarded the coveted Chartered
Life Underwriters Designation to FRANK
A. McCormack. Frank lives in Santa Ana,
California.

BRANTLEY F. BARR, JR., has recently been
named Staff Supervisor for the Public
Relations Department of the Washington,
D.C., branch of the Chesapeake and Po-
tomac ‘Telephone Company. Brantley has
been associated with C & P since gradu-
ation and has been in various capacities in
West Virginia and New York City.

McHenry T. ‘TICHENOR received a law de-
gree from the University of Texas in 1958.
At present he is president of a radio, FM
and television station, KGBT, in Harl-
ingen, Texas, and a radio station in Corp-
us Christi. He and his wife, Carolyn, have
three children, McHenry, Jr., eight years
old, Warren, three years old, and Jean,
two years old.

Joun R. O'CONNELL, JR., has joined Rey-
nolds Metals Company as regional pub-

 

JOHN R. O'CONNELL, JR., ’53

lic relations manager in New York. For
the last seven years Jack has been edi-
tor of E& M J Metal and Mineral Mark-
ets, a McGraw-Hill publication, and_be-
fore that he was a public relations staff
writer in New York.

1954

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. J. ROBERT Cross, a
daughter, Ann Campbell, on November
1, 1963. The couple also has a son, Rob-
ert.

Bruce R. KinG, JR., has been promoted to
Assistant Vice-President of the Life In-
surance Company of Virginia. Bruce

joined the Life of Virginia as a security
analyst in 1954 and was promoted to as-
sistant treasurer in 1960.

‘THOMAS J. KINNY is an instructor in
Pediatric Psychology at the University of
Maryland where he is also attached as
psychologist in the clinic for exceptional
children. ‘Tom is married to the former
Katherine Klenkenberg of Norwich, Ver-
mont. The couple live in Baltimore,
Maryland.

EpwARD Ross WAGNER, JR., has accepted
the position as field claim representative
with the Eastern Regional Office of the
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insur-
ance Co. Ross will be stationed in the
Baltimore office. He was an All-American
lacrosse player in 1953.

JAMEs C. CONNOR is associated with the
law firm of Steptoe and Johnson in
Washington, D.C.

J. BENNETT JOHNSTON, JR., won the Demo-
cratic nomination for one of five members
of the Louisiana House of Representatives
from the Caddo Parrish in the primary
on December 7. The nomination is consid-
ered tantamount to election in Louisiana.
Bennett is an attorney in Shreveport.

1955

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Paut H. WEIN-
STEIN, a son, Richard Ira, on June 15,
1963. The Weinsteins also have a daugh-
ter, Debbie, five years old, and another
son, Jay Michael, three years old. Paul
is a partner in the law firm of Levitan
and Weinstein with classmate LARRY LEvtI-
TAN, ‘55. They practice in Washington,

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Davin M. BERLING-
HOF, a son, Berkshire Todd, on September
g, 1963. David is associated with Cargill,
Inc., of Sacramento, California.

Promotions in the Trust Company of
Georgia in Atlanta, Georgia, have touched
two Washington and Lee men. JoHN W.
STACKHOUSE has been named Assistant
Vice-President and C. F. PATTERSON, Jr.,
has been named Assistant Treasurer.

A year ago CHARLES H. NowLIn complet-
ed his thesis, “The Thermal Dependence
of the Magnetic Moments of Oxide Sys-
tems,” and in June, 1963, received his
Ph.D. from Harvard in applied physics.
For a year he has been employed at the
Oak Ridge (Tennessee) National Labora-
tory.

GEORGE ‘T. W. HENpRIX, JR., a property
and casualty agent and broker in Olean,
New York, is secretary of Both, Branch,
and Hendrix, Inc. He is married to the
former Norma M. Henry, and the couple
has three children. Whip is presently
serving as vice-president of the Olean
Rotary Club.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Elected at a recent meeting, James A.
REEDER is the new _ Secretary-Treasurer
of the Shreveport, Louisian, Bar Associa-
tion. Jim is also serving as Secretary of
the State Junior Bar Association. He is
a practicing attorney with the firm of
Booth, Lockard, Jack, Pleasant and Le-
Sage in Shreveport.

Last September BILL Bartscu left Jamai-
ca, where he was assistant program of-
ficer for the US Agency for International
Development, for the School of Oriental
and African Studies at the University of
London. He is engaged in a six-year pro-
eram leading to a Ph.D. in Middle East-
ern Studies and plans to do his disserta-
tion on the economic development prob-
lems of Ivan. Bill’s long-range plans are
to do research writing on economic mat-
ters of the Middle East, either in the
academic field or with a US Government
Agency.

1956

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Bruce M. FRED-
rRIcks, twin sons, William Ott and Ray-
mond Edwards, October 9, 1963.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ARNOLD M. APPEL-
FELD, a son, Alex Lee Applefeld, on June
3, 1963. The couple has an older daugh-
ter.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. ARISTIDES C. ALEVI-
ZzATOS, a son, Christen Aristides, on June
28, 1963. For the 1964-65 year of service,
which starts in July, 1964, Ted has been
appointed chief resident in medicine at
the University of Maryland Hospital. He
is now completing a third year of medical
residency at this hospital.

The year 1963 was full of achievement
for CHARLES R. BEALL, JR. In January he
and Mrs. Beall announced the arrival of
a son, Dennis Bouldin Beall. In February
Charlie received the Martinsburg (West
Virginia) Jaycee’s Distinguished Service
Award, and in May he was named presi-
dent of the Jaycees. During the year he
was also elected to the Board of Directors
of the Martinsburg Chamber of Com-

1957

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JoHN D. GARSON, a
second son, Scott, on March 13th, 1963.
The older brother, Chris, is four years old.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. STANLEY M. ERD-
REICH, JR., a daughter, Mary Elizabeth, on
August 9, 1963. The family lives in Birm-
ingham, Alabama.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. ROBERT C. TOLLE,
a third son, Ada Andrew, on January 2,
1964. Bob received his DD.S. degrce from
Ohio State University and is now in-
terning at the State Tuberculosis Hospital
in Columbus, Ohio.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. H. PRESTON PATE,
a daughter, Melissa Ann, on November 5,
1963, in Joplin, Missouri.

WINTER 1964

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RicHArD R. War-
REN, a second daughter, Page Warwick,
on December 2, 1963, in Bronxville, New
York.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. DALE FRANKLIN
Guy, a second son, Evan Scott, on July
26, 1963. in Houston, Texas.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. H. GReIG Cum-
MINGS, JR., a son, H. Greig, III, on July
6, 1963. Greig is with the brokerage firm
of Folger, Nolan, Fleming & Co. in Wash-
ington, D.C.

Howarp V. SANDEN is a pediatrician in
Muskegon, Michigan. He and his wife
have a year-old daughter, Tracy Lee.

JouN A. FIrREBAUGH is a digital computer
programmer at the Defense General Sup-
ply Center in Richmond, Virginia.

A captain in the Army Medical Corps,
ALFRED J. MAGOLINE, JR., will go to Walter
Reed Hospital in Washington, D.C., in
September, 1964, for three years of resi-
dency training in ear, nose, and throat.
He and his wife have two daughters.

In December, 1963, JOHN MICHAEL GARN-
ER was elected vice-president of the Lit-
tle River Bank & Trust Company in Mi-
ami in charge of the mortgage loan de-
partment. He is also director of the Air-
port Bank of Miami and the Hialeah-
Miami Springs Bank.

F. EUGENE KEITH, JR., is practicing law in
Montclair, New Jersey. He and his wife
have a daughter, Carolyn.

Accepting a position as field claim rep-
resentative with State Farm Mutual Au-
tomobile Insurance Co., BARRY M. STORICK
will be in Raleigh, North Carolina.

Ropert A. CAIRNS is now selling data re-
cording instrumentation for Consolidated
Electrodynamics Corporation in Hunts-
ville, Alabama. Recently he filed papers
to start a corporation to do electronic
systems engineering and manufacturing

1958

MARRIED: JRA SAMELSON, JR., was mar-
ried August 24, 1963. His wife, Phyllis,
is from Dallas, Texas. The couple now
lives in Memphis, Tennessee.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Rospert G. McCut-
LOUGH, a son, Robert, Jr., on January 3,
1964. Bob is an attorney in Nashville,
‘Tennessee.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GLENN FAHRENT-
HOLD, a son, Scott Curtiss, on June 12,
1963. Glenn is with General Electric
Lamp Division in Prairie Village, Kansas.

The Society of Real Estate Appraisers’

Board of governors has awarded the Sen- —

ior Residential Appraisers designation to
K. WiLLiAM CHANDLER. Bill has had eight

years of experience in appraising residen-
tial and commercial properties in Mem-
phis, Tennessee. The designation carries
the professional endorsement of the So-
ciety.

Rurus L. SArFForp and his wife moved
to Atlanta in February, where he is pro-
ject manager for the construction of a new
country club.

After being assistant trust officer of the
First Union National Bank in Charlotte,
North Carolina, O. S. AIKEN, JR., has re-
cently been elected trust officer of the
Guaranty Bank and Trust Company of
Florence, South Carolina.

After completing his internship, Dr. War-
SON G. WATRING remained at the ‘Toledo
Hospital where he is presently employed
as house physician. In July, 1964, Wat
expects to begin a residency in obstet-
rics and gynecology at Indiana University
Medical Center in Indianapolis.

‘This past November 7, 1963, WILLIAM A.
Rosperts became President of the First
National Bank of Eufaula, Alabama.

1959

MARRIED: JouN C. KoepeEL, Jr., and
Fay Barbara Birren of Stamford, Connec-
ticut, were married December 21, 1963.
She is an occupational therapist working
for the public school system. The couple
lives in the Short Hills area near Pitts-
burgh.

MARRIED: ANTHONY J. FRANK and Har-
riet Ann Duff were married on June 9g,
1963, at Jefferson Lakeside Club in Rich-
mond, Virginia. The groom is with J. C.
Wheat and Company in Richmond.

MARRIED: JosepH Stuart Lewis, IV,
and Mary Frances Pyles were married in
the Beckley (West Virginia) Presbyterian
Church on October 5, 1963. They will
make their home in Oak Hill, West Vir-
ginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT CONRAD
KETCHAM, a son, John Hoover, on Decem-
ber 25, 1963, in Paris, France.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Rospert E. SHEP-
HERD, JR., a daughter, Sharon Lynn, on
December 17, 1963. Bob left the service in
February and is practicing law in Rich-
mond, Virginia, with the firm of Wicker,
Baker & Goddin.

Don K. JOFFRION is in his first year of
orthopedic residency at Confederate Me-
morial Medical Center in Shreveport,
Louisiana.

1960

MARRIED: JAMES R. LOUTIT was mar-
ried on August 10, 1963, to Miss Judith
Anne Ford of Marion, Massachusetts. The

35

couple now lives in Garden City, New
York.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN KENNEDY Mc-
Murray, a daughter, Nicola Ross, on De-

cember 4, 1963, in Martinsburg, West
Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. MAtcotm Boss
Burton, a second daughter, Susan Eliza-
beth, on November 11, 1963. The Burtons
are living in Chatham, New Jersey.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. PAUL BARGAMIN,
III, a second son, Stephen Neal, on No-
vember 8, 1963. Paul is doing legal work
with ‘Traveler’s Insurance Company in
Winchester, Virginia, where the Bargam-
ins have resided two and a half years.

After being with the Irving Trust Com.
pany of New York City for two years,

FREDERICK J. HERRMANN, JR., has joined
Van Products Company in Erie, Penn-
sylvania. He does personnel and labor
relations work. Fred and his wife have
two sons.

Joun M. Kirk is serving in the US Navy
at the US Naval Air Facility, Naha,
Okinawa, as a Lt. (jg.) Law Specialist.

WICKLIFFE HOLLINGSHEAD is CIC. officer
and electronic materials officer aboard the
USS Aldebaran (AF-10) with the rank of
Lt. (jg.). He is married to the former
Mary Hamilton of Denver, Colorado.

After receiving an M.A. degree in history
from ‘Tulane in 1962, H. GouLp SHIELDS
is teaching at Asheville School for Boys
while writing his dissertation for his Ph.D.
degree.

CHARLES G. BUFFUM, III, is now associated
with the First National City Bank in New
York City.

Presently on deployment with the Navy
VP-24, Davin K. WEAVER is in Rota,
Spain. In June he and his wife, Kitty, an-
nounced the arrival of a son, David K..,
Jr. Kitty and the son are waiting out
the deployment with her parents in Bos-
ton. Dave expects to be home in May.

In his military service CLirron MITCHELL
is stationed at the Philadelphia Naval
Shipyard in charge of the supply, over
haul, and outfitting programs.

Now in his last year at Cornell Medical
College, JosepH E, (JERRY) RINGLAND plans
to go to Rochester next year for intern-

©S 080698586088 O8FHHO0GO8O8HHO8HOOHOHHHHOHO6HOHOHHHHOHOHOE9HOHHOH8HHO8CO8OCEO8EEH8E90

Richmond Faycees Honor William Abeloff

@ WILLIAM H. ABELOFF, °57A and
‘60L, was honored in January by
the Richmond Junior Chamber of
Commerce when it conferred upon
him its Distinguished
Award for 1963.

For Abeloff, the Jaycees’ recog-
nition was doubly significant:

At 29, he became the youngest
man to be so honored since the
first award for outstanding com-
munity service was made by the
Richmond Jaycees in 1988.

And the 1963 Award marked the
first time the son of a former win-
ner of the award was selected. Abe-
loff's father, Irvin G. Abeloff, was
the award’s recipient in 1944.

The younger Abeloff also became
the third Washington and Lee
alumnus to win the distinction.
Stuart Sanders, II, 31, was honored
in 1945, and Landon W. Trigg, ’51,
was recognized in 1958.

Abeloff, who received his LL.B.
degree summa cum laude in 1960,
is a partner in the Richmond law
firm of Cohen, Cox and Kelly.

He is co-founder of Big Brothers,
Inc., and has served as the Rich-
mond president of the Big Broth-
ers organization. He has served as
a United Givers Fund group chair-
man, and is on the Jewish Center’s

Service

26

board of directors. He is a member
of the Richmond and _ state bar
associations and the Richmond
Omicron Delta Kappa Club.
While at Washington and Lee,
Abeloff was editor of the Calyx,
vice-president of the student body,
and editor of the Law Review. He

was tapped for membership in
ODK and the Order of the Coif.

Abeloff holds a reserve commis-
sion in the United States Army. He
is married to the former Ruth
Kohn of South Orange, N. J. ‘They
have two children, Jimmy, 4, and
Patricia, 11 months.

 

WILLIAM H. ABELOFF, *60L, and Mrs, ABELOFF accept congratulations from Richmond
friends after receiving the Richmond Jaycees’ Distinguished Service Award.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ship and thereafter he will specialize in
obstetrics and gynecology.

Having received his law degree in June,
1963, from the University of Alabama,
EpwaArp S. ALLEN is presently associated
with the firm of Martin, Balch, Bingham
and Hawthorne in Birmingham, Alabama.

STEPHEN D. MILLER graduated from the
Law School of Georgetown University
last October and is now associated with
the firm of Wyall and Saltzstein in Wash-
ington, D.C.

The appointment of A. Prescorr RowE to
the public relations staff of Reynolds Met-
als Company in Richmond was announced
in November. Pres has been assistant di-
rector of information services and curator
of Lee Chapel at Washington and Lee.
He joined the staff here at the Univer-
sity in 1960 and was named curator of
the Chapel in June, 1963. While he was
in Lexington he was a member of the
board of the Rockbridge Concert-‘Theatre
Series and a member of the Lexington-
Rockbridge Junior Chamber of Com-
merce.

GEORGE EMMANUEL ANTHOU has passed the
Pennsylvania and Ohio Bar examinations
and has been admitted to practice be-
fore both.

1961

MARRIED: JouN HoLr MERCHANT, JR:
and Lucy Rebecca Cannaday were married
on October 12, 1963, in Charlotte, North
Carolina. John is now serving as a first
lieutenant in the Army and the couple
will live in Ft. Knox, Kentucky, until Jan-
uary when they will be in Germany.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Courtney. R
MAuzy, JR. a son, Courtney R., 10, on
November 5, 1963. Courtney is with John-
son & Wimsatt, a lumber company in
Springfield, Virginia.

WILLIAM D. McCOLLUM was recently pro-
moted to the grade of Specialist Fourth
Class in the U.S. Army. He is a clerk-typist
in the Command’s Personnel Division of
the Office of the Director of Personnel at
Fi..hee, Virginia,

T. S$. CLAIBORNE is currently doing grad-
uate work for a master’s degree in chem-
istry at the University of Texas.

ROBERT W. REHMET is a third-year stu-
dent at the University of Texas Medi-
cal Branch in Galveston.

LAURENCE KINGSBURY is presently the Di-
rector of Library and a teacher of Ameri-
can History at John Burroughs School
in St. Louis: He expects to tregewe his
M.A. in English from Washington Uni-
versity in June and will attend the Grad-
uate School of Library Science at Rutgers
in the fall of 1964.

Still playing tournament tennis, CHARLES
C. Bowler, JR., was runner-up in the an-

WINTER 1964

 

A. PREscoTr ROWE, ‘60

nual post tournament at Ft. Benning.
He ranks first lieutenant, and after re-
lease from the Army in August, Chuck
expects to enter Law School at Washing-
ton and Lee. He and his wife, Louise,
have one son.

Having completed his M.B.A. at Colum-
bia University Graduate School of Busi-
ness, PETER G. SCHMIDT has accepted a
position with Beta Shoe Company in
International Marketing. He will be in
South America for the next two years,
initially in Lima, Peru.

MicHAEL K. SMELTZER is now associated
with the firm of Eggleston, Holton, Butler
& Glenn in the general practice of law in
Roanoke, Virginia. LyNwoop HOLTon, JR.,
44, and Ropert E. GLENN, ’51, are mem-
bers of this firm.

JAMES VINCENT LOUGHRAN became Judge
of Municipal Court and Judge of the Ju-
venile and Domestic Relations Court of
the City of Buena Vista, Virginia, last
October. Jim will also engage in the gen-
eral practice of law in Buena Vista.

1962

MARRIED: Gerorce S. LocAN and Ro-
berta Whitney Bartlett were married on
November 30, 1963. The couple lives in
St. Louis where Top is with Union Elec-
tric Company.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. FRANK C. BARGER,
a daughter, Deborah Dorsey, on Novem-
ber 15, 1963. The family lives in Wash-
ington, D.C.

Leste L. PEARD, III, is employed by Unit-
ed California Bank in Sacramento on a
credit management training program.

Following his graduation JaAmMrs N. Ap-
PLEBAUM started with R. H. Macy Com-
pany in New York on an executive train-

ing program and was shortly promoted
to the position of assistant buyer in the
cosmetics and drug deparment. Jim
then served a six months’ tour of active
duty with the Army. He is now assistant
editor of Chain Store Age, a large trade
journal for the retail store business.

In June, 1963, Roperr J. Osporne gradu-
ated from New York University with an
M.S. degree in retailing. He joined the
Army Reserves and is now on six months
active duty at Fort Dix, New Jersey.

ALLYN KANTOR is presently at the Uni-
versity of Michigan Law School. After
graduation in August, 1964, he expects
fo “gO "im the. Service. “His wife, Syma,
teaches french in. the Ann “Arbor’ ele-
mentary schools. ‘The couple has one
daughter.

ALAN M. Corwin has moved to Portland,
Oregon, to assume a position in the man-
agement office of the Bonneville Power
Administration.

Epwarp P. “Nep” Hosss is attending Co-
lumbia University’s Graduate School of
Business.

Currently on active duty in the Office of
the Judge. Advocate General of the
Army, JOHN A. PaAuL has been appointed
to the Board of Editors of the Federal Bar
Journal. The Journal is the official pub-
lication of the Federal Bar Association
which is composed of attorneys who are
or have been employed by the federal
government,

GEORGE VAN SCIVER and his wife, Barbara,
live in Lawton, Oklahoma, while he is
completing his military service. George
is an instructor in the target acquisition
department of the Artillery and Missile
School of Ft. Sill. He expects to finish his
tour in February, 1965.

In May of 1964 JAMES SAGNER expects to
receive an M.A. from Wharton’s Grad-
uate School of the University of Penn-
sylvania.

BEVERLY MEANS DuBose, III, graduated
last fall from Navy Officers Candidates’
School, Newport, Rhode Island, with the
rank of Ensign. He graduated with hon-
ors, sixth in academic rank in a class
of 850 students. His military rating on
performance by fellow officer candidates
in his company was third out of the 850
students. Bo was given an award under
the Navy’s General Order No. 21 by the
Newport Kiwanis Club for displaying
the highest quality of leadership.

Davin F. BroussArp has completed Naval
OCS and Justice School in Newport,
Rhode Island, and is touring the Medi-
terranean as an ensign on the carrier,
USS Shangri-La.

1963

MARRIED: DANIEL BLAIN, JR., and Dale

ot

Van Sciver were married in Philadelphia
on November 30, 1963.

MARRIED: THomas NELSON Rains and
Laura Whitner Dorsey were married on
December 20, 1963, in Atlanta, Georgia.

Robert A. YOUNG graduated from the
technical training course for United
States Air Force aeromedical specialists
at Brooks Air Force Base, and FREDERICK
I. HENDERSON, RuFus K. BarTon, and
SAMUEL A. BLocH have completed officer
orientation courses.

EUGENE JOHNSON, III, is a student in the
graduate school of psychology at George
Washington University in Washington,
D.C.

Currently serving a military service tour,
GERALD L. KESTEN is a lawyer in the Judge
Advocate General’s Corps. He is living
in Long Beach, New York.

KEN KOWALSKI is presently majoring in
science in the School of Education at
George Washington University.

Although DaAntreL F. Boyes is serving a
five-month tour of duty with the Army
Reserve, he will return in June to the
Gulf Oil Company in Houston, where he
was previously in a training program for
the company.

Since graduation H. KirKLAND HENRY, }R:,
has been a trainee at the International
Service Insurance Company in Ft. Worth.
In January, however, he began his mili-
tary duty with an Officer Orientation
Course at Ft. Sill, Oklahoma.

PactL H. BOoswELL is presently serving as
a first lieutenant in the 12th Cavalry,
grd Armored Division, U.S. Army Reserve.

WARDEN H. Emory is a first-year medical
student at the University of Virginia.
He is rooming with LinpsAy Hickam, ’62.

Rosert M. Ausurn and his wife, Diane,
live in Durham, North Carolina, where
he is attending medical school at Duke
University.

Since graduation RoBEerT C. HOLLAND has —

been a reporter for the Richmond Times-
Dispatch. He expects to leave in April,
1964, for six months active duty with the
National Guard.

Joun N. GUuLick, JR., is stationed on the
USS Fletcher (DD 445) as an ensign in the
USNR. The Fletcher is out of Pearl Har-
bor, Hawaii.

‘THEODORE A. DoREMUS, JR., is studying
dentistry at the University of Pennsyl-
vania Dental School.

1965

NEWELL S. Dory is completing studies at
American International College at Sprin-
field, Massachusetts. ‘This spring he will
be assistant lacrosse coach at Williston
Academy in Easthampton, Massachusetts.

38

 

1898

Emory HoMeER SmitrH died on November
9g, 1963. Mr. Smith had been a whole-
sale grain and fruit broker in Colusa,
California.

1903

JouN Morton McCrunc, who for many
years has been in the general insurance
business, died in Richmond, Virginia, on
September 6, 1963. Mr. McClung had been
confined to the Hermitage Methodist
Home for the past several years.

1904

Roy Davis ‘THompson, former manager of
First and Merchants National Bank of
Richmond, Virginia, died on January 25,
1964. Mr. ‘Thompson was a member of
the first rowing crew at Washington and
Lee. Before his association with the bank
he had taught school in Virginia and
Maryland and had been with a realty firm
in Richmond.

1905

JAMEs IRA PRITCHETT, Jr., of Danville, Vir-
ginia, died on June 13, 1963.

1908

Dozier A. DEVANE, Federal District Judge
and former presiding judge of the North
Florida District, died December 15, 1963,
in ‘Tallahassee. During his college days he
played right guard for three years on a
powerful W&L football team. After gradu-
ation he practiced law for some ten years
in ‘Tampa and then came to Tallahassee
as an attorney for the Florida Railroad
and Public Utilities Commission, helping
to draft the vital power commission leg-
islation during the 1930’s. Following re-
tirement he continued to assist other fed-
eral judges in North Florida, and his last
opinion for the appellate court was dated
four days before his death at the age of
eighty. The present district judge stated
that Judge DeVane “won the respect of all
who knew him...his great natural dig-
nity and sincere compassion for his fellow
man combined with a keen intellect...
above all he was a gentleman and a ded-
icated public servant.”

Harry Worp GaAssMAN, for many years a
teacher in Walnut Hills High School of
Cincinnati, Ohio, died November 3, 1963.

EARLE K. PAxToN died in a Clifton Forge
hospital on November 22, 1963. Mr. Pax-
ton had been in the educational field in

Virginia for most of his professional life.
He started out as principal of the Fin-
castle High School in 1909 and went from
there to Teacher McGuire’s University
School and then the principalship of Cov-
ington High School. From 1913 to 192¢
he was superintendent of the Rockbridge
County Schools. Mr. Paxton was perhaps
best known, however, for his association
with Washington and Lee from 1923 to
1946 as a math professor and for his
work with his fraternity, Pi Kappa Phi.
In 1950 he was honored by that group
for his ceaseless devotion to the chapter
and was given a watch as Pi Kappa Phi’s
“grand old man.”

1910

WILLIAM LAWRENCE CRAMER, a bookkeeper
for the York Stone and Supply Company
of York, Pennsylvania, for forty years, died
on January 1, 1964.

HARRY JENNINGS GARNAND died in Tucson,
Arizona, on December 3, 1963. Professor
Garnand had retired after \eaching college
students for a total of fifty years. He had
taught at Florida State University, David-
son College, The Citadel, and for thirty-
seven years at Emory and Henry.

1911

WILLIAM P. ‘THURSTON, an engineer and
contractor of Richmond, Virginia, died on
July 3, 1963.

1913

STUART TRIMBLE MAy, retired manufactur-
er, died in Montgomery, Alabama, on No-
vember 16, 1963. Mr. May had been owner
of the Duncan May Candy Company.

WiLBuR WHITE SmiTH died on September
26, 1963, in Cape Town, South Africa,
where he had been with the United To-
bacco Company since 1917.

1914

Lre R. GRABILL, JR., retired patent expert
with the duPont Company died in Wil-
mington, Delaware, on November 2, 1963.
At retirement in 1955, Mr. Grabill had
been with duPont for thirty years and was
secretary of the compan\’s patent board,
representing the legal department. He was
given broad assignments i:. the prepara-
tion of patent applications and license
agreements for synthetic rubber and neo-
prene and had been called upon increas-
ingly to advise and assist in patent phases
of expanded research work. Mr. Grabill
was a member of the bars of the USS.
Supreme Court, the U.S. Court of Customs
Appeals and the District of Columbia
U.S. District Court.

WILLIAM L. LANCASTER, JR., died in Chat-
tanooga, ‘Tennessee, on Sertember 28,
1963. Mr. Lancaster had lived in Chatta-
nooga for forty-two years where he es-
tablished and had been aciive in the
Lancaster Battery & Electrict Company.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1915

W. CARTER BLEIGHT, former principal of
Bellevue School in Richmond, Virginia,
died on May 4, 1963.

1917

INMAN PAYNE CRUTCHFIELD died in Jack-
sonville, Florida, on December 23, 1963.
Mr. Crutchfield had practiced law in
Jacksonville since 1925. He was a former
State Attorney of Florida’s Fourth Judicial
District and was City Solicitor for Jack-
sonville.

JoHN Morcan BricGHT, prominent insur-
ance executive and civic leader in the
area, died at his home in Athens, Ten-
nessee, on November 16, 1963. Mr. Bright
was the agent for the New York Life In-
surance Company as well as operating his
own insurance agency. He had served as
president of the county TB Association
and had been active in TB work on the
state level. He had won many state honors
in the insurance field.

1921

SHERMAN HArT BALLARD, an attorney in
Peterstown, West Virginia, died December
25, 1963. Mr. Ballard was a prominent
lawyer and a former member of the House
of Delegates of the West Virginia Legisla-
ture. He was very active in the Rotary
and was former Governor of the 273rd
Rotary District.

Dr. RAmon D. Garcin, Jr., of Richmond,
Virginia, died on November 8, 1963. Dr.
Garcin specialized in the practice of in-
ternal medicine and at the same time was
the medical director of the Hope Harbor
Hospital for Alcoholism and was the phy-
sician for the City Jail of Richmond. Dr.
Garcin was also very active in the work
of the American Legion and had _ held
many local, state, and national offices in
the organization.

1922

WILLIAM B. HESSELTINE, internationally
known American Civil War scholar and
author, died after a heart attack on De-
cember 8, 1963. Professor Hesseltine, who
had taught at the University of Wiscon-
sin since 1932, wrote nearly two dozen
books dealing with the Civil War and the
South. In 1961 he was appointed by the
University of Wisconsin as the first Vilas
Professor of American History. Professor
Hesseltine was president of the Wisconsin
Historical Society, a past-president of the
Southern Historical Society, and was active
in numerous scholarly organizations. He
accepted frequent appointments from the
State Department to lecture overseas.

1924

ALFRED H. GriFFITH died on January 20,

WINTER 1964

1964. Mr. Griffith was commonwealth’s at-
torney of Buena Vista, Virginia, and had
been mayor of that ctiy for twenty-four
years, serving in that capacity until 1952.
He was also a former trial justice and
judge of the Juvenile and Domestic Re-
lations Court of Buena Vista, and at the
time of his death he was president of the
Griffith Broadcasting Corporation.

1925

RAnsom B. Houcuins died on October 24,
1963, in Roanoke, Virginia. Mr. Houchins
was in the private practice of law in
Roanoke. He had been active in the work
of the Exchange Club, serving at one time
as president of the Exchange Club of Roa-
noke and also as state president of the
Exchange Clubs.

1926

Dr. RoBerT CARL YATES, Professor of
Mathematics at the University of South
Florida, author of five college math text-
books, and a former supervisor of instruc-
tion at the U.S. Military Academy, died

December 18, 1963. Before coming to USF,

Dr. Yates was chairman of the department
of mathematics at William and Mary. In
addition. Dr. Yates completed a_ taped
course in mathematics which is used wide-
ly by educational TV. He had been gov-
ernor of the Mathematics Association of
America, a member of the National Coun-
cil of Mathematics, and once served as
chairman of the Army Advisory Com-
mittee.

Joun THOMPSON MarTIN of Wilmington,
Delaware, died on December 8, 1963. Mr.
Martin was a passenger on the giant Boe-
ing 707 jet liner which exploded over
the Maryland countryside killing all
eighty-one persons aboard. Mr. Martin
had been with the duPont Company since
1929 and since 1960 had been office man-
ager of the export section of the plastics
department. He had many outside inter-
ests, particulary in the fine arts—he was
an organist, an excellent artist in water
colors, and he directed many theatrical
productions in Wilmington. Mr. Martin
maintained a keen interest in the Wash-
ington and Lee Glee Club and sponsored
their concerts in the Wilmington area.
Alumni affairs were always sparked by his
keen interest, and at the time of his death
he was president of the Wilmington chap-
ter of Washington and Lee alumni.

1932

Joun WILLIAM McCLuRE, Jr., of Cumber-
land, Maryland, died on December 21,
1963. Mr. McClure was a vice-president
of the Tri-State Paper Company, Cumber-
land.

1933

CLAUDE ANDREWS LAVARRE died on Octo-
ber 31, 1963. Mr. LaVarre had been with

the Singer Sewing Machine Company for
nearly thirty years and had had an inter-
esting and varied career as a representative
of that company in South America. From
1934 to 1939 he traveled over Peru, Bo-
livia, and Ecuador as an auditor and in
1940 was moved to Cuba where he became
supervisor of the Eastern Division. He
was later made general manager for Co-
lombia and Ecuador. At the time of his
death he and his family were living in
Lima where he was manager of Singer’s
activities in Peru.

1936

JOHN G. Fry, JR., a vice-president of Val-
ley National Bank of Phoenix, Arizona,
and head of its Systems-Research and De-
velopment Department, died on January
15, 1964. He joined Valley Bank nine
years ago and in 1960 was named a deputy
controller and was elected a vice-president
in 1962. Mr. Fry led a team analyzing the
bank’s need for electronic bookkeeping
equipment and making studies of various
systems available. He had the major re-
sponsibility for developing the bank’s
operations center and for converting the
offices to electronic bookkeeping.

HERBERT KENT LYON, Jr., having been ill
for several months, died on December 22,
1953. He had been with the Royal-Globe
Insurance Company of New York City
since 1939. During recent years he was
Chief Examiner of accident and health
claims.

Harry LEONARD ABRAHART of Philadel-
phia died on November 16, 1963. Mr.
Abrahart was a designer and an interior
architect.

GEORGE WILLIAM HOHANNEsS, an attorney
with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
in Baltimore, Maryland, died August 31,
1963. Mr. Hohanness held the rank of
Captain and was commissioned in Decem-
ber, 1942.

1937

Woop BOouLDIN, JR., Charleston attorney
and leading West Virginia authority on
income tax laws, died January 2, 1964.
Mr. Bouldin was a partner in the firm
of Spilman, ‘Thomas, Battle and Kloster-
myer. He was the principal drafter of
the present state income tax law and
served on a number of tax committees of
the state and the American Bar Associa-
tion.

1953

EDWARD CARLTON MOFFETT was tragically
killed on December 3, 1963, in Pleasant
Valley, New York, when his car skidded
on a patch of ice. He was returning from
a party given him by his company, the
Poirier & McLane Corporation of New
York City, to celebrate his tenth wedding
anniversary. Ed wes superintendent on
heavy construction projects in New York
City for his company.

39

 

News of the Chapters

Lynchburg’s Roperr B.
‘TAYLor, °44, left, outgo-
ing president of the chap-
ter, presents DEAN’ GIL-
LIAM with a special cita-
tion while PROFESSOR SEv-
ERN P. C. DuvaLL and
new chapter president S.
‘THOMAS  MArTIN, — ’38
look on.

A Special Citation for Dean Gilliam

from

RANK J. GILLIAM, retired dean of
F students and admissions direct-
or of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, received “The Lynchburg Ci-
tation” from Washington and Lee
alumni at a dinner meeting at the
Boonsboro Country Club, Febru-
ary 19.

‘The award is to be given annual-
ly by the Lynchburg alumni chap-
ter, in recognition of “‘some distinc-
tive and useful service to the Uni-
versity during the past year or over
a period of years,’’ according to
President Robert B. ‘Taylor.

‘Taylor explained that the cita-
tion will be a continuing annual
feature of local alumni activities.
Recipients will be chosen by the
chapter’s executive committee. He

40

said “the citation may be presented
to an administrative official, a fac-
ulty member, a student, an athlet-
ic coach, an alumnus, or even to an
individual outside the Washington
and Lee community who has made
some notable contribution to the
University’s advancement or repu-
tation.”

The citation presented to Gil-
liam, a Lynchburg native, states
that he was selected “for develop-
ing a stronger rationale for alum-
ni interest and pride in Alma
Mater through his signal contribu-
tions to the University’s stature...
for giving emphasis and direction
to the ennobling traditions which
abide in the minds and hearts of
Washington and Lee men wherev-

the Lynchburg Alumni Chapter

er they may be...and for enrich-
ing the undergraduate experience
of those who have come within his
sphere of influence and shared his
warmly humane spirit, his affec-
tionate concern, his uncommon
wisdom, and his absolute sense of
honor.”

Gilliam retired last spring after
thirty-seven years of service in the
administrative and faculty organi-
zation. During his tenure as Dean
of Students and Director of Admis-
sions, he established Washington
and Lee as a leader among South-
ern institutions in admissions prac-
tices and policies. Mr. James
Caskie paid a tribute to Dean Gil-
liam and expressed on behalf of the
entire Alumni Association sincere

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

thanks for his dedicated service.

Although the Hill City alumni
did not establish “The Lynchburg
Citation” as an annual award until
this year, University Treasurer Earl
S. Mattingly was similarly honored
by the Lynchburg chapter two
years ago. In a surprise presen-
tation at the annual Lynchburg
alumni dinner in 1962, Mr. Mat-
tingly received the “grateful appre-
ciation” of alumni for “his mani-
fold contributions to the strength,
stability and progress of the Uni-
versity through his wise and self-
less stewardship of its spiritual and
tangible assets and his uncompro-
mising allegiance to those ideals
and honored traditions of Alma
Mater which are revered by her
sons throughout the land.”

A social hour preceded an elab-
orate banquet which featured an
inspiring talk by Dr. Severn P. C.
Duvall, head of the English Depart-
ment at Washington and Lee, who
was introduced by Bert Schewel,
‘41. In addition, entertainment was
provided by the Washington and
Lee singing group, the Saveracs. Dr.
Duvall, as a relatively new head of
the English Department, centered
his remarks around his impressions
of Washington and Lee, its faculty,
and its students. Dr. Duvall came
to Washington and Lee in Septem-
ber, 1962, after having been a pro-
fessor of English at Dartmouth.

President Robert B. ‘Taylor, ’44,
presided over the business meeting.
A treasurer’s report was given by
S. James Thompson, 57. A resolu-
tion was presented by Lea Booth,
"40, from the Lynchburg chapter,
but on behalf of all alumni chap-
ters, to express appreciation to the
Ford Motor Company Fund _ for
their magnificent assistance to
Washington and Lee in the restora-
tion and preservation of Lee Chap-
el. Secretary Washburn was request-
ed to send copies of this resolution
to all chapters. Frank Callaham,
52, gave the report of the nominat-
ing committee, and ‘Tom Martin,

WINTER 1964

28, was named president for the
coming year.

For its annual Christmas social
activity, the alumni of Lynchburg
conducted their formal dance at
the Elks Club on December 19. As
usual, this was a gala affair with
alumni and their guests starting
the round of Christmas parties.

BALTIMORE

m™ THE ANNUAL dinner-dance of the
Baltimore Alumni Chapter was
held at the Holiday Inn on Novem-
ber 2 and was attended by a large
number of alumni, their wives, and
special guests.

Chapter President Dick White-
ford, ’57, presided over the after-
dinner program which included re-
ports by chapter committee chair-
men on finances, student recruit-
ment, special activities, and nom-
ination of new officers.

Elected as the chapter’s officers
for 1963-64 were President William
WN, Clements, ‘50, Vice-President
Stephen. Ehudin, “57, Treasurer
James O'Connor, ’44, and Secretary
John McDonald, ’54.

President Whiteford introduced

Frank A. Parsons, ’54, assistant to
the president at Washington and
Lee, who reported on current de-
velopments at the University. Par-
sons praised the Baltimore alumni
for the success of their chapter ac-
tivities, for the interest they share
in their Alma Mater, and for their
good fortune in marrying lovely
Wives.

LANCASTER

A post-game cocktail hour at
Lancaster’s Overbrook Country
Club was well-attended by alumni
from the Lancaster area, Philadel-
phia, Wilmington, and Baltimore
who had turned out for the football
game November 2 between the
Generals and the Diplomats of
Franklin & Marshall.

Edgar L. Grove, ’56, of Lancast-
er arranged the successful affair.
A “pep” band that Grove had en-
gaged to play at the game also held
forth at the country club. The mu-
sic was LOUD.

BIRMINGHAM

& A LUNCHEON in honor of Dean
Frank J. Gilliam was held at the

 

A dinner party at the home of Larry GALLoway, °43, in Baltimore turned out to be a

Washington and Lee gathering. Pictured are, l-r, CALHOUN BOND, 43; FRANK Brooks, ’46;

LARRY GALLOWAY, ‘43; CHARLES STIEFF, ’45, and JAMES O’ConNoR, 44. All except O’Con-
NOR live within two blocks of each other.

41

Downtown Club on Monday, Oc-
tober 28. A large number attended
and received a fine report of the
University.

Following the luncheon Dean
Gilliam met with prospective stu-
dents and their parents in the au-
ditorium of the Birmingham Fed-
eral Savings and Loan Association.
pobn: V--Goe, |r, .’25, president of
the chapter, presided at both meet-
ings.

MEMPHIS

8 THE ALUMNI in the Memphis area
were pleased to have Dean Frank J.
Gilliam visit with them on October
30. Dean Gillam met with pros-
pective students and their parents
in the afternoon and spoke to the
assembled alumni at a dinner meet-
ing.

Chapter president, William Car-
rington Jones, introduced Dean
Gilliam and expressed thanks to
those officers who had helped with
the arrangements.

SHREVEPORT

@ THE ALUMNI and wives of the
Northern Louisiana chapter enter-
tained with a dinner in honor of
Dean and Mrs. Frank Gilliam on
Monday, November 4, at the
Shreveport Club.

Robert U. Goodman, ‘50, presi-
dent of the chapter, presided at the
dinner and welcomed the large
number of parents of current stu-
dents who were present. A cocktail
hour preceded the dinner at which
Dean Gilliam gave an excellent re-
port on the significant develop-
ments at Washington and Lee.

On behalf of the entire chapter,
President Goodman presented
Dean Gilliam with a silver tray as
a token of gratitude for his many
years of devoted service.

A meeting for prospective appli-
cants to Washington and Lee had
been held earlier in the day. Bill
Washburn, the executive secretary
of the Alumni Association, was

42

 

Above, FE. ALTON SARTOR, JR.,
"98, left, and RicHARD C. EGLIN,
"44, with WILLIAM B. OGILVIE of
Shreveport, whose son is a sen-
ior. At right DEAN FRANK J.
GILLIAM, left, listens attentive-
ly to JOHN B. ATKINS, JR., 45,
at the Shreveport meeting.

 

   

L-r, Mrs. Guy, Mrs. MORELAND, MARVIN MORELAND, ’56, and
DALE Guy, ’57, at Houston.

L-r, Mrs. Ditro, Tep H. Riccs, ’38, Mrs. Riccs, and BEN W. DITTO, 43,
at Houston.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Past president JoHN W. Goong, JR., 43, congratulates his suc-
cessor, ROBERT H., SEAL, ’44, at San Antonio.

MARSHALL T. STEVES, ’44,

left, and RAYMOND R.

RUSSELL, ]Ri, 42, Gf San
Antonio.

San Antonio lawyers WIL-

LIAM W. (MIKE) PALMER,

"30L, left, and RUSSELL B.
WINE, '12L.

 

 

JosepH C. ArMowrs, 31; R. R. Witt, 713; and Roperr H. SEAL, ’44 at San Antonio.

WINTER 1964

 

present and displayed coloved slides
of the campus.

HOUSTON

= A DINNER for alumni, their wives,
and parents of current students was
held Tuesday evening, November
5, at the River Oaks Country Club.
Making a short report on the Unt-
versity, Bill Washburn showed col-
or slides of the campus with special
emphasis on the restored Lee Chap-
el. Buzzy Griffin, ’60, now actively
engaged in business in Houston,
gave a humorous summation of
“What Washington and Lee Did
tor Me.

Following the program, Robert
Peeples, °57, president of the chap-
ter, introduced the other newly-
elected officers. They are W. Tem-
ple Webber, fro. 54. vice-president,
and R. Gordon Gooch, ’56, secre-
tary-treasurer. Mrs. Milton Morr1-
son, whose husband had for many
years been president of the chap-
ter, sat at the head table and was
recognized. President Peeples re-
minded the alumni of the chapter's
future program, particularly as it
related to the recruitment of pros-
pective students.

SAN ANTONIO

m A sTAG cocktail-dinner meeting
was held by the chapter on Wed-
nesday evening, November 6, at
The Barn Door in San Antonio.
Bill Washburn, executive secretary
of the Alumni Association, was
guest speaker. During his remarks
concerning the recent develop-
ments at the University he showed
colored slides of the campus.
Washburn and Ganahl Walker
had visited several high schools in
the afternoon, and they reported
on the prospective applicants who
were interviewed. John W. Goode,
Jr., ’43, presided over the meeting.
In the short business session
which followed, the following were
elected: President, Robert H. Seal,
’44; members of the Board of Di-

a0

rectors, R. R. Witt, °13, Robert R.
Russell, Jr., °42, Houston H. Harte,
50, Norman Fischer, Jr., 746,
‘Thomas C. Frost, Jr., ’50, and Mar-
shall 'T. Steves, *44.

NORTH TEXAS

m THE NORTH TEXAS alumni, their
wives, and guests entertained with
a dinner on ‘Thursday, November
7, at the Cross Keys Restaurant in
Ft. Worth.

Previously there had been a
highly successful meeting with ap-
proximately twenty prospective ap-
plicants and their parents at the
“99° Room of the First National
Bank. ‘Vhe excellent arrangements
were made by Clay Berry, Jr., 50,
vice-president of the chapter, and
Bob Collett, *60, who received the
expressed appreciation from the en-
tire group.

During the cocktail hour which
preceded the dinner, a phonograph
record of the Glee Club singing
“The Swing” and “College Friend-
ships” brought a fine response.

_ Charles M. “Pat” Patrick, Jr., ’55,

president of the chapter, presided
over the meeting. Dr. A. Compton
Broders, Jr., ’38, of ‘Temple, Texas,
presented a proposal for a yearly
“Washington and Lee Weckend in
“Texas.”

‘The executive secretary of the
Alumni Association, Bill Wash-
burn, was on hand, and after re-
porting on the recent campus de-
velopments he presented some color
slides of the University and the
restored Lee Chapel.

A special welcome was expressed
to Mr. and Mrs. Wyatt C. Hed-
rick, ’10, who over the years have
been such loyal supporters of the
chapter and its activities.

NEW ORLEANS

w THE INTERNATIONAL HOUSE was
the site for a luncheon in honor of
Dean Frank J. Gilliam on Novem-
ber 8. A small but enthusiastic
group attended the meeting, and J.

44

H. McMillan, chapter president,
presided.

On the preceding afternoon
Dean Gilliam talked with prospec-
tive students and their parents at
the New Orleans Academy. All al-
umni were deeply appreciative for
the splendid, up-to-date report of
the University given by Dean Gil-
liam.

MOBILE

= WITH ALL the appropriate fanfare
the alumni of southwest Alabama
(Mobile area) gathered for the
formation of an alumni chapter
and the inauguration of officers.
Down for the occasion were Dean
Frank J. Gilliam and Bill Wash-
burn, Alumni Secretary.

The gala affair was held Monday
evening, November 11, at the Sky-
line Country Club in Mobile. A
cocktail hour preceded the meeting
where a large group of alumni and
their ladies heard a report from
Dean Gilliam on recent develop-
ments on campus.

Washburn, on behalf of the AIl-
umni Association, presented a cer-
tificate of membership to Robert
S. Bacon, ’29, who was elected presi-
dent of the newly formed chapter.
G. Sage Lyons, °58, was named

secretary-treasurer, and Dr. Guy C.
Oswalt, ’40, was elected vice presi-
dent. Other members of the Board
of Directors are: Russell Ladd, ITI,
’57, Dr. Joseph R. Mighell, ’40, H.
Ogden Shropshire, 24, and Arthur
C, ‘Tonsmeire, '-’34.

A committee headed by Sage
Lyons, accompanied by Dean Gil-
liam and Mr. Washburn, had con-
ducted an interview during the af-
ternoon with applicants from the
local high schools. A report was
made for this committee.

President Bacon concluded the
meeting with a short explanation
of the future program for the chap-
ter. Following the meeting colored
slides of the campus were shown.

PENSACOLA

m# AN OFFICIAL welcome into the
membership of the Alumni Associa-
tion was extended the Pensacola,
Florida, chapter on ‘Tuesday, No-
vember 12. Alumni of this north-
western Florida area joined for a
meeting at the Pensacola Yacht
Club, where Bill Washburn pre-
sented the certificate of member-
ship.

The principal speaker for the oc-
casion was Dean Frank J. Gilliam.

 

New officers of a new chapter at Mobile are, l-r, secretary-treasurer G. SAGE LYONS, °58;
president ROBERT E. BACON, ’29; and vice-president Guy C. OSWALT, ’40.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

New officers and board members of the Pensacola Chapter elected at the November

certification ceremony. Seated, l-r, HENRY E. McLAUGHLIN, "40; FRONTIS W. SHERRILL,
'28; and JUDGE RALPH M. McLang, ’290L. Standing, l-r, WILLIAM J. NOONAN, JR., °49;
Henry M. YONGE, '42; RODGER P. DOYLE, ’58; and JoHN R. LIcon, ’43.

A large number of alumni and
their wives joined together to hear
his remarks concerning the recent
developments on campus. Judge
Ralph McLane, ’29, presided over
the meeting, and Mr. Frontis Sher-
rill, ’28, introduced Dean Gilliam
and expressed a welcome to the
entire group on behalf of the newly
formed chapter.

The elected officers are as tol
lows: Rodger P. Doyle, ‘58, presi-
dent; William J. Noonan, Jr., ’43,
vice-president; John R. Ligon, ’43,
secretary-treasurer. Elected to the
Board of Directors were Frontis
Sherrill, ‘28, Ralph McLane, “26,
Henry. Yonge, . 42, (Henry Mic
Laughlin, ’40, William Noonan,
‘48, and Richard: Furner, 42.

In the afternoon prior to the
meeting, Dean Gilliam and Bill
Washburn had conducted _inter-
views with prospective applicants
to Washington and Lee at a meet-
ing in the Citizens and Peoples Na-
tional Bank.

CHARLOTTE

= ALUMNI OF THE Charlotte chap-
ter gathered for a stag party at the
City Club on November 13. Bill

WINTER 1964

Washburn, Alumni Secretary, was
through Charlotte for this occasion.
Earlier Washburn had an inter-
view with four prospective students
from the Charlotte area.

featy Av. Berry, [ry 41, Pres
dent, was in charge of the arrange-
ments. ‘he program included a
discussion of future plans for the
chapter in the coming year.

ATLANTA

m IN A TOUR Of southern prepara-
tory and high schools, Dean Frank
J. Gilliam stopped in Atlanta on
November 14. The alumni were
pleased to join with him for lunch-
eon at the Cherokee Town and

Country Club. Many alumni
brought guests and prospective stu-
dents with them.

A busy schedule saw Dean Gil-
liam at Westminster School in the
afternoon, and many_ prospective
students and their parents met with
him at 7:30 that evening in the
Board Room of Foote and Davis.
Floyd McRae, Jr., president of the
chapter, expressed appreciation
and welcomed all Atlanta alumni
on behalf of those present.

PIEDMONT

= A LARGE group of alumni in the
Piedmont chapter gathered in the
Wedgwood Room of the King Cot-
ton Hotel in Greensboro on No-
vember 14. They heard a report
from Bill Washburn, Executive
Secretary of the Association, and
reviewed color slides which he had
of recent developments on campus.

During the afternoon Washburn
visited the Grimsley High School
in Greensboro to interview  pros-
pective applicants to Washington
and Lee. Among the guests during
the evening banquet were parents
of current students and also the
prospective applicants.

In the business session presided
over by outgoing President Larry
Wilson, °37, the following new of-
ficers were elected: President Rob-
ert F. Campbell, ’42; Secretary Wil-
liam E. Latture, ’49; Board Mem-
bers Jack Eubanks, ’52; Dr. Wil-
liam White Trigg, ’49; and James
D. Coleman, ’37.

 

At the Piedmont Chapter meeting: I-r, D. M. HoLsENBECK; CLAIBOURNE H. DARDEN, ‘ge:
WILLIAM E. Latrure, ’49; and L. W. WiLson, Os

ei

The splendid arrangements were
made by Abe Jones, ’51.

ROANOKE

m@ PROFESSOR O. W. Riegel, head of
the Journalism and Communica-
tions Department, was principal
speaker at a Roanoke chapter meet-
ing on Monday, November 18.

‘The stag dinner party was held
in the Colony Club at the Patrick
Henry Hotel and was preceded by
a social hour. Benno Forman, ‘52,
handled the arrangements and out-
going president Robert S$. Gold-
smith, ’53, presided at the meeting.

 

In his remarks concerning the
University, Professor Riegel paid
special attention to the renovation
project of Reid Hall. He explained
some of the background and the
future plans for the construction
in Reid Hall as it relates to the new

home for the Journalism and Com-
munications Department.

Professor Riegel was introduced
by Fred Loeffler, °46, of the Roa-
noke ‘Times World Corporation.
Bill Washburn, alumni secretary,
was also introduced and made a
few comments concerning the forth-
coming Alumni Directory and gen-
eral reunion.

Recognition was given to those
alumni whose sons are present stu-
dents on campus. They are Dr. Cal-

40

vin Burton;.'25, Dr.:Henry Lee, ‘26,
and Robert W. Spessard, ’39.

In the business session the follow-
ing officers were elected: A. Lin-
wood Holton, *44, president; Wil-
liam A. Gibbons, Jr., ’21, vice-presi-
dent; William R. Holand, ’50, sec-
retary-treasurer.

JACKSONVILLE

ALUMNI in the Jacksonville, Flor-
ida, chapter area joined Monday
evening, November 25, in honor of
Dean Frank J. Gilliam and Mrs.
Gilliam at a dinner meeting at the
Robert Meyer Hotel. Presiding was

the outgoing president, Robert P.
Smith, Jr.

Dean Gilliam gave a brief sketch
of recent developments on the cam-
pus. An afternoon of interviews
with prospective applicants had
been arranged by Bob Smith and
Bill Barnett at the Barnett Nation-
al Bank.

In the short business session
which followed Dean Gilliam’s af-
ter-dinner remarks, the following
officers were elected for the coming
year: President William B. Barnett,
"68; Vice-president Archie OQ, Jen-
kins, II, ‘58; and Secretary- Dreas-
urer Thomas F. King, Jr., ’58.

The alumni were especially hap-
py to see the colored slides of the
campus which Bill Washburn pre-

sented at the close of the meeting.
MIAMI

@ MEETING at the Urmey Hotel on
‘Tuesday evening, November 26, the
alumni of Miami joined to hear
Dean Frank Gilliam present an
up-to-date picture of the Washing-
ton and Lee campus. Dean and
Mrs. Gilliam were visiting the city,
and in the afternoon Dean Gillham
presided at a meeting of prospec-
tive students.

J. Alan Cross, president of the
alumni chapter, presided at the
evening dinner meeting and an-

Leaders of the Jacksonville
chapter pose with a welcome
visitor. L-r, outgoing presi-
dent Roperr P. SMITH, 754;
DEAN FRANK J. GILLIAM, °17;
new president WILLIAM B.
BARNETT, 758; and ARCHIE O.
JENKINS, II, ’58, new vice-
president.

nounced plans for the future pro-
gram of the chapter.

A special welcome was given to
Senator Frederick M. Hudson, who
represented the class of 1890. Sena-
tor Hudson is still most active as
an attorney in Miami.

Following the formal meeting,
Bill Washburn presented recent
colored slides of the campus, in-
cluding some showing the restora-
tion of Lee Chapel.

FT. LAUDERDALE-
PALM BEACH

# A LARGE group of alumni and
their wives and guests attended a
dinner meeting on December 2 in
honor of Dean and Mrs. Frank J.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Gilliam. Dean Gilliam was making
a tour of southern preparatory and
high schools and while in Ft. Laud-
erdale and Palm Beach visited with
a number of prospective students
and their parents.

During the dinner which was ar-
ranged by Mr. and Mrs. Bev Smith,
32, the short business session saw
Hugh Glickstein, ’53, a lawyer in
Ft. Lauderdale, named as new
president of the chapter.

FLORIDA WEST COAST

m THIS FALL the chapter was pleased
to have visitations from two repre-

Old friends meet at the Si
Petersburg siag. party, L-,
WILLIAM G. GARDINER, ’29;
Hucu E. Reams, ’46; RicH-
ARD L. Lite, 30; “and  Vin-
CENT A. IGNICO, ’43.

sentatives of the University. On
December 3, Dean Frank J. Gilliam
met with alumni, their wives, and
guests at the Palma Ceia Golf and
Country Club. Charles Lykes, Jr.,
‘39, presided at this meeting, and
in the short business session pre-
sented these new officers: President
Joe Chumbly, ’55, and Secretary
Bert Nelson, ’42. Dean Gilliam in
addressing the assembled alumni
gave an up-to-date review of the
University.

On January 21, the chapter start-
ed the New Year with a stag get-
together at the St. Petersburg Yacht
Club. Alumni Secretary Bill Wash-
burn was on hand and _ presented
excellent color slides of the cam-
pus. On behalf of the enthusiastic

WINTER 1964

group, President Chumbly expres-
sed appreciation to Bill for his
Visit.

CLEVELAND

@ ON DECEMBER 26, the local alum-
ni had a luncheon meeting in hon-
or of the current students attended
by more than twenty-five persons.

Dr. John Battle, President of the
Alumni Association, made a report
on developments at the University.
Sam McChesney, ‘67, and Dick
Grazier, °66, gave reports on stu-
dent activities.

During the business session Rob-

ert H. Moore, Jr., ’44, was named
chapter president for the ensuing
year.

PHILADELPHIA

@ THE FINAL meeting in 1963 of the
Philadelphia chapter was held at
the Yale Club with President James
‘Trundle presiding. Several matters
of business were discussed includ-
ing the program for the recruit-
ment of local high school students
and the participation of the Phila-
delphia chapter in the College
Night Program.

A February dinner-dance was the
subject of discussion before the
following new officers were elected:
President Stuart |. Bracken; 54;

Vice-president George M. Allen,
Jt. “57; Treasurer Stephen H.
Snow, ’54; and Secretary James T,
Trundle, “so:

WASHINGTON

m THE WASHINGTON chapter held its
annual holiday alumni luncheon
on December go at the Army-Navy
Town Club. The honored guests
were Coach Lee McLaughlin, head
football coach, and “Buck” Leslie,
backfield coach, along with Secre-
tary Bill Washburn.

Moving picture film of the foot-
ball highlights was shown and

 

Coach McLaughlin gave a_ brief
talk on the prospects for next year.
A large group attended this meet-
ing and brought a number of high
school seniors as guests.

CHARLESTON

m= ALUMNI Of the Charleston area
were pleased to have a visit on Jan-
uary g from Director of Admissions
James D. Farrar and Alumni Sec-
retary Bill Washburn. A dinner
meeting was arranged by outgoing
president, Lee Kenna, ’40, at the
Edgewood Country Club.

Dean Farrar presented a review
of the admissions policy at the Uni-
versity and an overall review of re-

47

 

Among alumni attending the Danville meeting in November were, l-r, C. RICHARD WILLIAMSON, ’51; JOHN D. HEarp, °53; P. K. MILEs,

cent developments. Bill Washburn
presented recent color slides.

‘The following new officers were
elected for the coming year: Presi-
dent W. T. Brotherton, ’47; and
Vice-president Frank Baer, '52. Re-
elected for secretary-treasurer was
Ike Smith, *57.

RICHMOND

= IN HONOR of Founders Day, the
Richmond chapter held its formal
dinner-dance at the Rotunda Club
on the evening of January 25. A
large number attended this splen-
did affair, which was arranged by
chapter president, C. W. (Buck)
Pinnell, °46. Bill and Elizabeth
Washburn from Lexington repre-
sented the University.

LOUISVILLE

@ FOOTBALL Coach Lee McLaugh-
lin and Backfield Coach Buck Les-
lie were in Louisville on February
3 and visited local hgh schools.

‘That evening an alumni dinner
was held at the Pendennis Club
under the splendid arrangements
of President A. R. Boden, ’52. Both
Coach McLaughlin and Bill Wash-
burn addressed the large group
which included several prospective
students, their parents, and local
high school coaches.

48

"17; and Ropert L. HOPKINS, JR., ‘51.

Following the meeting movies of |

the Generals-Centre football game
were shown, as well as color slides

of the University. Expression of ap-_

preciation was made to George
Burks for his splendid help in the
visitation to the local high schools.

DANVILLE

m THE CHARCOAL HOUSE Restaurant
was the setting for a meeting of the
Danville area alumni on Friday,
November 15, where a large group
from Martinsville, Halifax and the
surrounding area joined with the
Danville group to hear Bill Wash-
burn, the alumni secretary, make a

report on recent developments on
campus. After a short social hour
the group had a delightful steak
dinner.

In the business session the nom-
inating committee, consisting of
Charles R. Thomas, Jr., Stafford
Whittle, Il, and Mills Rogers, Jr.,
placed the following slate of officers
for election: President Douglas K.
Frith, °57; Vice-president John D.
Heard, °53; and Secretary-Treasur-
er IT. Ryland Dodson, ’46. ‘The elec-
tion was unanimous.

Washburn also had colored slides
of new facilities at Washington and
Lee.

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A Statement

The following is a statement of
ownership, management, and circu-
lation of The Alumni Magazine of
Washington and Lee University as
required by act of Congress on Au-
gust 24, 1912, as amended by the
Acts of March 8, 1933, July 2, 1946,
and June 11, 1960. The Alumni
Magazine is published quarterly
and entered as second class matter
at the post office at Lexington, Vir-
ginia, September 15, 1924.

The printer is the Washington

and Lee Journalism Laboratory
Press with C. Harold Lauck as su-
perintendent. William C. Wash-
burn is the editor and business
manager. ‘The address of the pre-
ceding is: Washington and Lee
Alumni, Incorporated, Lexington,
Viriginia.

The owner is the Washington
and Lee University Alumni, In-
corporated, Lexington, Virginia.
There are no bondholders, mort-
gage, or other security holders. ‘The
average number of copies of each
issue of the publication during the
twelve preceding months was
10,700.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

DON’T FORGET!
June 11, 12, lo

 

General Alumni Reunion

of All Classes

—_ —<
<——-_

Make your plans NOW to be there!

See Page 24 for additional information.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

with crest in five colors

 

‘This chair is made from northern birch and rock maple—hand-rubbed
in black with gold trim (arms finished in cherry). A perfect gift for
Christmas, birthday, anniversary or wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to

the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

Price $30.50 f.0.b. Gardner, Massachusetts
(effective April 1, 1964)

 

 

