WASHINGTON
AND LIE

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

o Care
Bee
“ae

etal
BEERS
ce

 

ROBERT EDWARD ROYALL HUNTLEY

Ss

WASHINGTON AND LEE’s NEW PRESIDENT

 

 

rin

Ea

Photo by Jack Gaking

RICHARD M. Nixon ADDRESSES ODK AssEMBLY IN DOREMUS GYMNASIUM

 

Editor

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40

Managing Editor

Romu.Lus JT. WEATHERMAN

Editorial Assistant

Mrs. FRED K. CARTER

THE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President
James W. Priest, M.D., ’48

Vice-President

THOMAS C. FRosT, JR., 50

Secretary
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40

Treasurer
Joun M. Jones, III, °37

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

WILLIAM C. BAKER,
FREDERICK BARTENSTEIN, JR., ‘41
Jor F. BEAR, 33

CHARLES F, CLARKE, JR., ’38
GEORGE Crappock, M.D., 30
JAckK L. CrisT, JR., °45
WARREN H. EDWARDS, ’39
THoMaAS C. FRostT, JR., ’50
JOHN M. Jones, III, 37
EDWARD H. OULD, ’29
FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN, ’24
JAmeEs W. Priest, M.D., ’43

EDITORIAL BOARD

PAXTON DAVIS

FRANK J. GILLIAM, ‘17
JAMEs W. Priest, M.D., ’43
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40
JAMEs W. WHITEHEAD

WASHINGTON
AND LEE

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

VOLUME 43 NuMBER 1 Marcu 1968
CONTENTS

A Message from President Huntley .. 2
Moving Day for Bob Huntley

President Huntley Meets the Press

Meet Evelyn Huntley and Family . . 10
On the Threshold of Select Company . 12
Pressdiential Sidelights<¢ . G.. aque: ooPe
Dick Nixon at Washingtonand Lee . .~— 14
CON TAG Fs 160s a ee ee
Debate: A: Professor's Story=s05 0+ st 4 82
Changes in 1 hree Departments... #20
fats Note re Se ae ee a
Name Your Wandidate 2.0.) OF > 2 en 88
a a oe a
Cree ee ee a ae
Wek, Day at Dlemishaw -.... 2 ot 40

 

 

 

About the Cover

The sketch of Washington and Lee’s new President, Robert E. R.
Huntley, was drawn especially for this issue of the magazine by
Jim Stanley, artist for the Winston-Salem, N.C., Journal and
Sentinel newspapers. The editors acknowledge with gratitude Mr.
Stanley’s contribution and commend his talent.

Published quarterly by the Washington and Leé University Alumni, Inc., Lex-
ington, Virginia 24450 and printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press of
Washington and Lee University under the supervision of C. Harold Lauck.
All communications and P. O. D. Forms 3579 should be addressed to Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni, Inc., Alumni House, Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Virginia, with additional mailing permit at
Roanoke, Virginia.

A Message
from

President Huntley

In recent weeks I have heard from
a great many of you by mail, by tele-
eram, and otherwise, and have at-
tempted to respond by letter to each
one. I hope that by the time you read
this magazine I will be up to date with
my correspondence.

Washington and Lee is a strong
school, far stronger than many of you
have had occasion to know. One of
our major obligations is to see to it
that alumni are fully aware of our
strengths, weaknesses, and needs. ‘This
obligation we will attempt to fulfill
as thoroughly and as candidly as pos-
sible. I am looking forward to the op-
portunities of talking with you at
alumni chapter meetings across the
nation and on the occasions when you
can return to the campus.

It is clear that if Washington and
Lee is to meet the future with the
same strength and vitality which has
characterized its distinguished past it
must have the understanding and the
help of its alumni. I do not mean
merely their financial help—although

 

indeed this will be critical. Rather, at
this point, I would prefer to put the
emphasis on understanding. ‘The
problems and the challenges of higher
education today are unfolding and
shifting at a rate which allows us no
time for complacency and often little
time for deliberation. The decisions
we make in response to these chal-
lenges will invariably have some as-
pects which we—the faculty and the
alumni—do mot ike. We on the
campus intend to do everything pos-
sible to assure that you are aware of
what is occurring here and we intend
to exchange views with you and to seek
your advice. There is a risk in this, of
course, because anything we do will
be against the advice of some. We
must assume, however, that the loyalty
and support of our alumni does not
hang by so slender a thread as to make
this risk a serious one. If this assump-
tion is incorrect, then the future of
Washington and Lee will indeed be
radically different from its past. I do
not believe it is incorrect.

RARE IR Mbectn,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

   
   

A
PN) ines

eo

re a ee
avi .
Th » ~)
ees XY
J

ter

rT

> ie

  
  

  

2

  
     
     

  
 
 

ZY
<>,

Lo

“
aa ae

Lo

 

 

 

 

 

‘ 2
| B
,
;
tt
11
it)
Hi
ery eee!
gat feok
tee. rf ' ,
adh mg ~
eal
ape
On the morning he be- [eae
came President, Ropert E.
R. Huntiey cleaned out ve <a
7 i ™ Ty eae
his desk in Tucker Hall 9 eres
and walked the few steps eq = Soa =
to his new office in Wash- te S d
ington Hall. Photographer | ae
JoHN Hucues was present 72S

to record his progress.

WINTER 1968

Ae a ti Eo Nee

ry gm

 

 

MOVING DAY

for

Bob Huntley

N FEBRUARY 5, Robert Edward Royall Huntley—
.) young, vigorous, only 11 years from being a law
student, and in his own words “‘a bit nervous’’—became
the goth President of Washington and Lee University.

The bells in the clock tower of Lee Chapel chimed
that day as they do on all special days such as Lee's
Birthday and Final Day.

That afternoon President Huntley, presiding at
his first faculty meeting, said the chimes puzzled him,
and he asked Miss Albertina Ravenhorst, secretary to
the President, why they were ringing.

Miss Ravenhorst told the new President: “Ask
not for whom the bell tolls... .”

This sally evoked laughter from the faculty. Some
may have been thinking of Hemingway’s exaltation
of virility and bravery in the face of hardship; others
may have been relating the remark to John Donne's
complete involvement in mankind. In either case, it
was an auspicious beginning for the new president.

Bob Huntley has acknowledged that he has taken
on an enormous and personally taxing job that on
many occasions will demand courage. He is aware,
too, that it is a job inextricably bound up with man-
kind—guiding a great institution which, according
to its recently adopted Statement of Philosophy pur-
sues “its educational purposes in a climate of learning
that stresses the importance of the individual, his
personal honor and integrity, his harmonious relation-
ship with his fellowman, and his responsibility to
serve society through the productivity of his training
and his talent.”

President Huntley also told the faculty in brief
opening remarks that “any man becoming President
of this institution is blessed with a smooth internal
operation.” He cited a “loyal faculty willing to
grapple with real and tough problems” and “a good
administration that knows what it is doing.”

“Someone has said that we have an obligation to
live up to our reputation,” the President said. “I
would state it slightly differently. I think we have an
obligation to make our reputation as good as we really
are.”

So the new President began his work.

 

His elevation from Dean of the School of Law to
President of the University, ending a search of seven
months by the Board of Trustees for a permanent

successor to President Fred C. Cole, has been greeted
with universal enthusiasm by the University family
and within educational and lay circles. (An editorial
from the Roanoke World-News, reprinted elsewhere
in this issue, is typical of the public reaction to the
selection of Mr. Huntley.)

A special selection committee of the Board of
Trustees considered a long list of candidates before
deciding that the best man for the job was here on
the campus. The committee worked closely with a
faculty advisory committee and representatives of the
Washington and Lee Alumni Board of Directors and
had the benefit of suggestions from students, from
alumni at large, and from friends of the University.

Before getting into his biography, it must be said
that President Huntley is a Washington and Lee man
through and through. He once remarked, “I’m a bit
thin-skinned about Washington and Lee.”

Much is being written today about a new breed
of college president. ‘They tend to be younger, more
dynamic, more casual, less given to academic pom-
posity than the old breed. President Huntley not
only fits the new mold; he is also somewhat unusual
as far as presidents of Washington and Lee are con-
cerned.

He is young—38—about as young as any President
the University has had. He is a lawyer, not a doctor
of philosophy as most Washington and Lee Presidents

4

 

On his arrival in the President's office,
Mr. HuntLey received a hearty welcome
from DEAN OF THE COLLEGE WILLIAM W.
Pusey, III, who was Acting President for
five months. At right, PRESIDENT HUNTLEY
is shown at his desk.

have been. He is an honor graduate both of the Un1-
versity and of its School of Law, making him the first
alumnus to become permanent President since before
the Civil War, and he is the first faculty member to
be elevated to the presidency since the late George
Denny in 1901. He is truly one of Washington and
Lee’s own.

Dr. Huston St. Clair, rector of the Board of Trus-
tees, said of President Huntley’s election:

‘We are fortunate that Dean Huntley has accepted
the presidency of the University. He is eminently
qualified to lead Washington and Lee University in
the years of opportunity and challenge before it. He
has youth and vigor, a deep devotion to his alma
mater, and a close acquaintanceship with its people
and its special needs.

“Dean Huntley has excelled as a teacher and an
administrator, and he has acquired special knowledge
of conditions in American higher education in his
capacities as a professor and as legal adviser to the
University and as secretary of the Board of ‘Trustees.”

President Huntley was born June 13, 1929, in
Winston-Salem, N.C., a son of Mrs. Elizabeth Royall
Huntley and the late Benjamin Franklin Huntley.
His grandfather founded both the B. F. Huntley
Furniture Co., a manufacturing firm, and a chain
of furniture stores in North Carolina, but the family
has not been connected with either for many years.

In Winston-Salem, he attended Wiley and Summit
Schools and was graduated from Reynolds High School
in 1946.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Through his mother, he has many connections with
Wake Forest University. She is from the town of Wake

Forest, where the college was located before it moved
to Winston-Salem. Her grandfather and her uncle both
taught at Wake Forest College, and her father (Presi-
dent Huntley’s grandfather) was a longtime trustee
of Wake Forest College.

President Huntley entered Washington and Lee
in the fall of 1946 and received his B.A. degree in
1950 with a major in English.

He then served three years in the Navy, attaining
the rank of lieutenant (j.g.) and serving aboard a
destroyer in the Atlantic.

He began his legal studies at Washington and Lee
in 1954 and was editor of the Law Review and vice
president of the Student Body. He received his LL.B.
degree in 1957, summa cum laude, with membership
in Phi Beta Kappa, national scholastic honor society,
Order of the Coif, law honor society, and Omicron
Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity.

In his senior year in the School of Law, he re-
ceived the Washington Literary Society award “for
the most distinguished service to Washington and
Lee’ of any graduating student.

President Huntley was associated with the law
firm of Boothe, Dudley, Koontz, and Boothe in Alex-
andria, Va., for a year before joining the law faculty
of Washington and Lee in 1958 as an assistant pro-
fessor. He was promoted to associate professor in 1959
and to professor in 1964.

In 1961-62, he attended the Harvard Law School

WINTER 1968

 

under the auspices of a Fellowship in Law Teaching
and received his LL.M. degree there in 1962.

He was named Dean of the School of Law in
1967, succeeding Dean Charles P. Light, Jr., who had
reached retirement age for department heads. Presi-
dent Huntley had been Law Dean for about four
months when the Board of Trustees offered him the
presidency of the University.

President Huntley for the remainder of this
semester is continuing to teach his law classes. Mean-
while, Dean Light has reassumed the deanship of the
Law School for the remainder of this semester.

Dr. William Webb Pusey, III, who was Acting
President of the University as well as Dean of the
College during the interim between the opening of
school and President Huntley's assumption of the
presidency, is continuing his duties as Dean of the
College. And Treasurer James W. Whitehead, in
addition to his post as treasurer, has assumed Presi-
dent Huntley’s former duties as Secretary of the
University.

President Huntley is a member of the American
Bar Association, the Virginia Bar, the Virginia State
Bar Association, Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity, and
Delta ‘Tau Delta social fraternity.

He was married in 1954 to the former Evelyn
Whitehurst of Virginia Beach, and they have three
daughters, Martha, 9, Catherine, 7, and Jane, 19
months. ‘The family lived at 114 Oakview Drive in
Lexington, but moved into the President’s House
on the campus in early March.

or

 

Robert E. R. Huntley met with newspaper and television reporters at the Alumni House on the
day it was announced that he had been elected President of Washington and Lee. Excerpts from
that news conference appear on the following pages.

MR. HUNTLEY MEETS THE PRESS

Mr. Huntley: I'd like to make one comment belore
you ask questions. I want to take this occasion to point
out how glad I am—and everybody at Washington and
Lee—that Dr. William W. Pusey has agreed to go on
as Dean of the College, which is certainly the first
thing I needed to know before accepting the election
as president, and a critical factor in the future of the
school. Of course we all owe him a great debt olf
eratitude for stepping into the breach during the last
six months.

Ww

Q: Dean Huntley, what do you think is the growth
potential of Washington and Lee?

Mr. Huntley: I suppose that if one set about to
make a school as large as one could make it, over a
period of years, there is almost no limit to the size
that it could become. I don’t anticipate that this will
be Washington and Lee’s goal.

uN

Q: Do you think it would be good for Washington
and Lee to strive to become as large as it could?
Mr. Huntley: No, I do not.

“

Q: Can you see any threat to small colleges in the
developing community colleges?

Mr. Huntley: No, I don’t see them as a threat. I
think that there will be a need for some liaison be-
tween schools like Washington and Lee and the com-
munity colleges. I can’t imagine that the needs in the
educational world are so circumscribed that there is
not considerable room for both kinds of institutions.

Ww

Q: Can you comment on the apparent trend to-
ward an increasing demand for liberal arts education?

Mr. Huntley: I hope that you are correct that
there is a growing demand for a liberal arts education
in the country. Certainly Washington and Lee will
continue to operate on the assumption that a major
need in higher education is for emphasis on quality
liberal arts education. ‘This has been the dedication
of the school throughout and will continue to be.

6

Ww

QO: When will Washington and Lee’s capital de-
velopment program begin?

Mr. Huntley: Under Dr. Fred C. Cole, the initial
steps in mapping a development program were taken.
A Development Office has been activated with Mr.
Frank Parsons as head. Mr. Farris Hotchkiss, the
associate director, and Mr. Bill Washburn, the alumni
secretary, all will be working closely together in this
office. A number of steps were taken under Dr. Cole's
leadership, and it’s clear that a number of additional
steps will need to be taken. I think it’s clear that
Washington and Lee has development needs, and it’s
clear that they can be met.

Ww

Q: Do you have any timetable for reaching this
goal?

Mr. Huntley: None as yet, but I assume there will
be some kind of timetable before long.

or

Q: Some day, when you retire, some reporter ts
going to come to you and say, “What is your proudest
accomplishment?”

Mr. Huntley: I would hope that I would be able
to say that Washington and Lee has fulfilled its
history as a unique higher educational institution, with
continuing emphasis on quality education in the
liberal arts, with a student body and a faculty drawn
from all walks of life and from across the country,
strongly motivated young men who represent a cross-
section of society; and highly qualified faculty mem-
bers who are principally motivated to teach young
men—with interest in research and independent
scholarship important in their thinking, but secondary
in motivation.

Ww

Q: Have you any notions for curricular innovation?

Mr. Huntley: No. ‘The principal responsibility
for curricular innovation will continue to be, as it
has been, with the faculty and the deans.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Ww

Q: One thing that was a question a few years ago
is the position of the Unwersity on athletics. What
is your view?

Mr. Huntley: ‘Phe position of the school in recent
years on athletics is that it constitutes and will con-
tinue to constitute a major part of the liberal arts
program at Washington and Lee. I believe that it
is a strong program which has had a few rocky years.
[ hope that it has reached a maturing now upon
which it will be able to build. Cy Twombly has done
a splendid job as athletic director, and upon his re-
lirement next year, we have recently named Coach
Lee McLaughlin as the new athletic director, and |
think his views are the same as those of the institution
in this kind of program. I anticipate no change of
direction in the athletic program. I know, however,
that it’s critically important that we provide at once
the kind of new facilities which are sorely needed if
the program is to continue to grow in strength.

Ww

Q: 1 don't know about Washington and Lee, but
more and more students throughout the country are
asking for a greater voice in administration. What
do you think about that? Is it true here?

Mr. Huntley: I think it’s true that students are
asking for a greater voice in the administration. One
point here is that for a long while, students at Wash-
ington and Lee have had a significant voice in nearly
every aspect of the operation of the school. I think
the legitimate demands which the students have
made for an additional voice in the affairs of the
school already are, to a large degree, a reality at Wash-
ington and Lee. Student government has always been
in their hands, including the Honor System and the
administration of student affairs.

In addition, students participate on some com-
mittees with faculty members. Student views are
solicited both formally and informally on nearly all
matters which the school has to confront. The de-

WINTER 1968

arts education.”

“Washington and Lee will continue
to operate on the assumption that a
major need in higher education
is for emphasis on quality liberal

cisions On matters of major policy will continue to
be made by the Board of ‘Trustees and by the faculty.
It is also true that much more decision-making has
been entrusted to the faculty here than in many other
institutions. “Phat, it seems to me, is quite helpful,
and there is no plan to change that, though often
it is time-consuming to the faculty.

Ww

Q: Lt was mentioned in the Self-Study Report that
Washington and Lee would be cooperating with VMI
more in the future. What is meant by this? Are there
any reciprocal programs now in progress?

Mr. Huntley: There have been occasional recipro-
cal arrangements between VMI and Washington and
Lee with respect to certain courses that are taught at
one place or the other, but not at both. Facilities have
occasionally been shared, and I certainly anticipate
that this will continue, and I hope that it will grow. I
think each school has goals which it wishes to pursue
independently, and I don’t believe either school wishes
to merge with the other. But I think there is potential
for cooperation and I don’t think there is any dis-
agreement between the two schools concerning the
areas of cooperation which can be developed.

Ww

Q: Do you have any plans for any more graduate
work?
Mr. Huntley: No.

Q: Many alumni have criticized in recent years
the student body and student newspaper for giving
undue exposure to what they regard as a significant
change in the character of the University, particularly
to what they see as the failing of the conventional
dress tradition, the demise of the speaking tradition,
and last year’s public Honor Trial. Do you see these
things as drastic departures from what Washington
and Lee has meant to the students in the past, as do
these alumni?

 

 

Mr. Huntley: No. I see the same things they see,
but I think I see them in a somewhat different light.
I have talked with certain alumni about these matters,
and I think the consensus among alumni is, in fact,
not generally represented by the comments you have
suggested. Certainly there have been some changes
in student dress habits, and I suppose that there will
continue to be such changes. I wish to make it clear
that I would prefer students to dress in an appropriate
fashion; it adds a good deal to the atmosphere of the
school. But I would not anticipate that the faculty
or Board would wish to make any change in the
tradition here of allowing these matters to be de-
termined within very broad limits by the students
themselves.

My own observation is that the students have
shown a rather large measure of responsibility in de-
ciding this for themselves. Dress habits on campus,
while they have changed somewhat, seem to me to
be rather good. The speaking tradition is still more
apparent by its observance than by its breach. It may
be that it has slipped somewhat, but by comparison
with some other campuses, I think Washington and
Lee measurses up very well in both these respects.

I don’t think either of these matters is thought
of by the students, the faculty, or the alumni, so far
as I am aware, as matters which are critically import-
ant as ends in themselves. They are, however, highly
important as reflections of the school’s success in
fostering a spirit of close liaison between faculty and
students and among students, and as reflections of a
spirit of respect for the sensibilities of others.

As for the Honor System, in the past years since I
was a student, the students have questioned the va-
lidity of the system repeatedly and they will probably
continue to do so. It has survived this kind of quest-
ioning with amazing and renewed vitality.

Ww

Q: Is any plan or study being made about inde-
pendent study?

8

“As for the Honor system... the
students have questioned the validity
of the system repeatedly, and they will
probably continue to do so, It has
survived this kind of questioning with
amazing and renewed vitality.”

Mr. Huntley: There are no plans as yet, but there
is much consideration as the Committee on Courses
and Degrees has repeatedly conducted studies along
these lines. What steps will be taken in that direction
I do not know, but it is not a subject of which the
Committee is unaware. The faculty and student body
have also set up special committees solely to study
the curriculum, but I don’t believe they have a time-
table for their reports.

Ww

Q: The question of fraternities at Washington and
Lee has been up in the air for quite some time, do you
have any special posture on this matter?

Mr. Huntley: I am a member of a fraternity at
Washington and Lee and I certainly have no animosity
towards fraternities. I don’t believe the faculty as a
whole has any such animosity. The question of how
effectively the fraternities will continue to fulfill the
role they have here to fulfill I think is one which
remains to be answered by the fraternities and the
school.

Ww

Q: Do you think the influences from fraternities
here are negative and will have to be changed?

Mr. Huntley: No, I don’t think it is entirely nega-
tive, but I think it will have to change as the times
change. There is probably some room for change
within the fraternity system, which I hope will occur
as a process of evolution, rather than by means of some
sort of fiat.

Ww

Q: Can you elaborate on the negative side of fra-
ternities?

Mr. Huntley: It has been suggested from time to
time by students, faculty members, and alumni that
the fraternity system has occasionally been a fragment-
ing influence on the student body. To some degree
they divided the student body into small groups which
are not related to the academic pursuits of the school.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

That, I suppose, is the negative side. Whether the
advantages of fraternity life—social and otherwise—
can be preserved without too much emphasis on the
fragmenting aspect is the major question. It seems to
me they probably can be.

Ww

Q: What do you feel is the major purpose of the
college president, besides raising money?

Mr. Huntley: That is a very good question. Raising
money is a major function, but for Washington and
Lee it is harder to answer than it would be at some
schools, and it is good that it is hard to answer. The
bylaws of the University do entrust most of the signi-
ficant decisions—that is those related to the educational
enterprise, which are certainly the significant deci-
sions—to the faculty with the Board in ultimate
authority. The President is thought of as acting as
a leader of the faculty, bringing up matters he feels
important, advising when he has advice to give, stimu-
lating and leading if necessary faculty committee
activity and maintaining proper liasion between fac-
ulty and the Board and the students and the Board.
That is a nebulous task, but it seems to me to be an
important one.

Ww

Q: Do you believe past fund-raising has been suc-
cessful, and is there room for improvement?

Mr. Huntley: There is room for improvement, but
it has been successful. Washington and Lee has never
become poverty-stricken, and it is not now. That state-
ment would not be true if fund-raising had not been
successful in the recent past and over the long haul.
The organization of these efforts has taken nearly
every pattern you can imagine, depending on the needs
and the times. The President certainly needs to take
a position of leadership in this area, and our presidents
always have. I don’t think Washington and Lee has
ever considered for a moment abdicating its decision
about its goals to any source of funds, private or fed-
eral. I don’t think it has ever been called upon to do

WINTER 1968

“The President is thought of as acting

as a leader of the faculty ... maintaining
proper liaison between faculty and

the Board and the students and the Board.
That isa nebulous task, but it seems

to me to be an important one.”

Photos by Mickry Pritiprs

so. I don’t think if it were called upon to do so it
would respond,

Ww

Q: Last year was the first year for Negroes to attend
Washington and Lee. Are there plans to seek out
qualified Negroes to attend?

Mr. Huntley: There are certainly plans to increase
the program of making contact with potential students
at Washington and Lee. It is quite clear that this
recruiting campaign, as all other aspects of the opera-
tion here, will be conducted in a nondiscriminatory
fashion so that qualified applicants will be sought
from all races.

Ww

Q: How do you feel the dormitory housing situa-
tion will be settled?

Mr. Huntley: ‘he means are available and within
the next year a part of the decision will be made.

Ww

Q: Does the University have the necessary acreage
available which would be required for extensive ex-
pansion?

Mr. Huntley: Yes, it does own a_ considerable
amount of very lovely property just across the ravine
beyond the athletic fields. It is true there is a geo-
graphic problem presented by the ravine and the
athletic fields, but I don’t believe that anyone has
used that as a permanent obstacle to building new
facilities, once the agreement has been made on what
is needed.

Ww

Q: Do you think there is any possibility any build-
ing on campus may be removed and replaced by a
modern structure?

Mr. Huntley: I doubt very seriously if this will
come up (laughter). Certainly buildings on the Colon-
nade have been rebuilt inside before, and I am sure
that will happen again. The one most immediately
needing internal remodelling is the Commerce School.

9

 

 

Meet Evelyn Huntley

HE DAY IT WAS announced that Robert E. R.

Huntley had been chosen to be the next President
of Washington and Lee University, women reporters,
accompanied by photographers, hurried to the Hunt-
ley home to talk with Mrs. Robert E. R. Huntley.

It was a natural thing to do. Educational news
media are full of stories about the perils of being the
wife of a college president. So what did Evelyn Hunt-
ley think about it all?

The reporters found Mrs. Huntley “candid,”
“petite” (5 feet, 114 inches), “‘vivacious,” “witty,”
“engaging,” and just a little “uneasy.”

Did she influence her husband’s decision to move
from Dean of the Law School to the President’s chair?

“Bob was asked to take the presidency on Decem-
ber 12,” Mrs. Huntley said. ‘““He didn’t make his mind
up until just before Christmas. He loves the Law

10

and the Three Girls

School so much, and teaching, too—it was a hard de-
cision. But there are so many advantages to both
positions, I couldn’t advise him much. I just let him
fumble along until he decided what he wanted to do.
I’m adaptable. I think we'll like this new life.”

How did she feel about it?

“Anyone becomes uneasy when it’s an area where
you don’t know what will come along or what is
expected of you. This is a small college and has quite
a vigorous social life, so V'Il be busy. I haven’t fully
taken it all in yet.”

Will she change?

“I don’t expect to change very much—if any,” Mrs.
Huntley said. ““They knew me before they asked Bob
to be President.”

She will, she reported, continue to wear bright

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Pictures at left show Evetyn HUNTLEY
in a pensive mood; then laughing
with baby Jane, whose pajamas say
“My Heart Belongs to Daddy”; and
with baby pictures of the girls. At
right are President and Mrs. Huntley
with Catherine, Jane, and Martha.

clothes, such as red jumpers and crisp white blouses,
and spend most of her time being mother to three
young daughters.

“All we've done for the past 14 years is have chil-
dren and go to school...I never expected to have
girls. And this will be the crop. I don’t expect any
boys now,” Mrs. Huntley said.

The family includes Martha, 9, who is just be-
ginning Girl Scout work, singing in the children’s
choir of the Presbyterian Church, and taking piano
lessons; Catherine, 7, a Brownie and a second-grader;
and a chubby, cheerful toddler, 19-month-old Jane.

“The two older ones will be about six feet tall
like their Daddy,’ Mrs. Huntley said. “The littlest one
is short like me.”

What about cooking?

“My cooking is a point of controversy,” she said.
“I’m not very exotic in the kitchen. Bob is pretty
good, however, really very good with wine dishes.”

And gardening?

“I hate to tell you I’m terrible. My geraniums are
the only things that do beautifully. And petunias, too,
but anybody can grow petunias.”

‘The Huntleys recently moved from a country home
into a 11-room split-level house at 114 Oakview Drive
in Lexington.

The family will move soon into the President’s
House on campus, built by Robert E. Lee. ‘There, Mrs.
Huntley said, they will be entertaining on a much
larger scale than they have been accustomed to, and
that, Mrs. Huntley said, is probably the major adjust-

WINTER 1968

 

—-~

ran 7 ow

oo

:
;
’
i

; Pe)
:
)

cz

ment she will have to make as the President's wife.

Mrs. Huntley is the former Evelyn Whitehurst,
born in Norfolk and reared at Virginia Beach. After
graduation from the College of William and Mary,
where she majored in English, she taught in the sec-
ond grade at Virginia Beach.

Later, she taught three years in Lexington while
her husband was attending law school. And she taught
again in Alexandria, Va., while Bob was associated
with the law firm of Boothe, Dudley, Koontz & Boothe.

Mrs. Huntley met her future hubsand in 1952 in
what she calls a “romantic situation.” ‘They were at-
tendants in the wedding of her roommate at Virginia
Beach. Bob, then in the Navy, was an usher, and
she was a bridesmaid. ‘They were married in 1954.

In Lexington, Mrs. Huntley has worked as a Pink
Lady in the Stonewall Jackson Hospital, and she hopes
to resume that service when she can. She has been
active in the Presbyterian Church, heading a circle
for many years; her husband is an elder and teaches
Sunday school.

Mrs. Huntley said the girls were “quite excited”
about their father’s becoming President of the Uni-
versity, “but mostly over the move.” And she con-
fided that the new President was “a little put out
about it’ because, at first, they were not more con-
cerned over what he will be doing. He had been Dean
of the Law School for about four months when tt
was announced that he would be President.

Mrs. Huntley said, “His job as Dean was so short
I think the girls thought Dad was fired.”

1]

 

 

Pad

“
=

SHEE F
CNS key
(FP Re Sa ae

aS eS

= <A ae

2

On the Threshold
Of

Select Company

NYONE ASSUMING the presidency of an inde-
A pendent college or university today assumes
for himself a most formidable challenge.

The October issue of Fortune magazine docu-
ments the dilemma in 10 pages of text, photos
and charts under the heading: “Private Colleges:
A Question of Survival.” In this day of rapidly
rising expenditures for state supported institu-
tions of higher education, the private college in-
creasingly finds itself in a financial bind. While
it is getting more help from government and
bigger fees from students, its costs are going up
even faster.

Robert E. R. Huntley, the 38-year-old Law
School Dean, who will become President of
Washington and Lee University, is doubtless well
aware of this predicament W&L shares with
larger, wealthier private institutions.

He comes to the presidency having been
closely associated with former President Fred C.
Cole, who resigned unexpectedly last August.
Dr. Cole installed him as the University’s legal
adviser and as secretary of the Board of ‘Trustees
and the University corporation.

Thus, while Mr. Huntley has been Dean of
the Law School only since last September, he has

over a much longer period of time been privy
to the financial problems of the University.

This experience will stand him in good stead
for Washington and Lee faces not only the money
worries of virtually all private colleges but some
special problems peculiar to it.

Not the least of these is the establishment of
a good working relationship with a sell-perpetu-
ating, highly conservative Board of ‘Trustees.
Here his law background should prove helpful,
for the board includes two former presidents of
the American Bar Association, a Federal judge
and the general counsel for one of the nation’s
largest industries.

Another challenge will be to improve rela-
tions between the University and its 12,000
alumni scattered widely over the world. Geo-
graphical dispersion alone makes this problem
difficult. And the University’s policy of non-subsi-
dized athletics, for all the good things that can
be said for it, does not strengthen alumni ties.

Still another problem is the matter of student
housing. Almost uniquely, W&L provides dormi-
tory space for only about 100 of its approximately
1,000 upperclassmen. ‘The remainder live in fra-
ternity houses or rent private housing in Lexing-
ton and the surrounding community.

Perhaps most important, Mr. Huntley must
provide the leadership for W&L to make the
proper decision as to how large it should be-
come and how it can preserve and fortify the
reputation for excellence it has long enjoyed.

Young, vigorous and familiar with many of
the problems which will face him, the new Unt-
versity president will have a lot going for him.
If he successfully deals with the challenges, he
will put himself in the select company of the few
Washington and Lee presidents who contributed
markedly to making of the school one of the
best men’s independent colleges in America.

Roanoke World-News
January 3, 1968

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Presidential

Szdelights

As Frank Parsons, Director
of University Development,
noted, “Washington and Lee
doesn’t name a_ President
every day.”

It is a serious business, all
right, choosing and announc-
ing the head of one of the best
liberal arts colleges in the
country. Still, little things
happen here and there to
lighten the gravity of the occa-
sion. Take, for instance, the
following items:

Absent-Minded President

Yes, college presidents (new
ones, at least) can be as pre-
occupied as professors.

One morning not long
alter it was announced that
he had been elected President,
Robert Huntley was driving
to work. He realized, he said,
that he had forgoten to put
on his belt.

He did not want to appear
undressed on a campus that
puts store on proper dress. So
he stopped at a men’s cloth-
ing store and bought a belt.

Not wanting people to
know that he was without a
belt, he did not put on the
new belt in the store. He
returned to his car and un-
wrapped the belt. He reached
down to slip it through the
belt loops of his trousers—and
discovered that he had had
his belt on all the time!

WINTER 1968

 

‘The Bobs Huntley

Washington and Lee has a
wealth of Huntleys. ‘There
are Robert E. R. Huntley,
professor of law and now
President of the University,
and H. Robert Huntley, as-
sociate professor of English—
both called Bob.

For a time the two were
distinguished in conversation
by the names “Law Bob” and
“English Bob.” But now that
R. E. R. Huntley has become
President, the names, accord-
ing to campus wags, have had
to be changed to “Big Bob”
and “Little Bob.”

“Little Bob” said he doesn’t
mind: “My mail is getting
more interesting all the time.”

The two Huntleys’ mail, it
seems, often gets mixed up.

“Little Bob,” for instance,
received a letter announcing
his election as President of the
University. At the end was
a notation, “Something seems
to be terribly wrong about
this.” It was a prank perpe-
trated by Frank Parsons.

Now “Little Bob’ has
grown a beard that he keeps
neatly groomed.

A faculty-watcher observed:
“I guess he grew it so every-
body can tell who the Real
Bob Huntley is.”’

 

 

 

The other Bos HuNTLEY

And In the Classroom

President and Mrs. Hunt-
ley, when it was announced
that he would head the Uni-
versity, lectured their two
older daughters, Martha and
Catherine, to take their
father’s new position natur-
ally and to behave as if
nothing had happened.

But the girls were justly
excited and proud. No one
could blame them for letting
it show a bit as Catherine, a
second-grader, did the next
day at school.

When the _ teacher’ was
checking the roll and called
her name, Catherine answer-
ed: “President.”

13

 

 

NIXON AT WASHINGTON AND LEE

WENTY-ONE DAYS before he announced that he was
xz a candidate for the Republican nomination for
President, Richard M. Nixon came to Washington and
Lee on January 11 and addressed the 53rd annual
Omicron Delta Kappa Assembly in Doremus Gym-
nasium.

A hoard of national newspaper and television re-
porters came with him. The front section of the gym-
nasium was a forest of television lights and cameras;
photographers roamed the aisles and milled about the
podium, squatting, focusing, snapping shutters; re-
porters scribbled notes furiously at tables surrounding
the platform.

No one in the audience doubted that Mr. Nixon
was then and there a candidate. And many of the 1,500
to 1,600 people who packed the gymnasium felt that
they quite possibly were gazing upon the next Presi-
dent of the United States.

The occasion was academic, a time when Alpha
Circle of ODK “taps”? members into the national hon-
orary leadership society founded at the University
in 1914. But the atmosphere was unavoidably political.

Mr. Nixon spoke without notes for about 20 min-
utes and answered questions from the audience for
about 40 more minutes. He was given two standing
ovations and more than a half dozen rounds of sus-
tained applause. Several reporters who had covered
Nixon appearances for years said that the former Vice
President was never in better form. He was relaxed; he
was confident; he was obliging.

The arrangements were all to his liking—or, at
least, to the specifications of members of his staff who
visited the campus twice before his coming to see that

14

everything would be in order. No speaker’s stand, they
insisted, just a single microphone before which Mr.
Nixon would stand and speak without text. And could
the tapping ceremony be held before Mr. Nixon’s ap-
pearance so that there would be no interruption be-
tween his formal address and the questions and an-
swers? Please, no Washington and Lee banner behind
the speaker’s platform. That would clutter the back-
ground for television. And after his introduction could
Mr. Nixon walk the full length of gymnasium to the
platform? No? Well, could he stand behind the cur-
tain and step onto the platform just as he was intro-
duced? All right. But, sorry, Mr. Nixon’s schedule is
too tight to permit him to visit Lee Chapel and greet
the crowd there who heard his speech over a special
public address hookup.

Mr. Nixon was not present for the ODK tapping
ceremony which began at noon. He was being driven
to Lexington from Roanoke, where he had flown by
jet from New York. He arrived at the gymnasium just
as David ‘T. Johnson, Jr., senior from Pensacola, Fla.,
and president of ODK, was concluding that part of
the program. He stood behind the curtain and waited
for Dr. William W. Pusey, III, acting president of the
University, to introduce him. He stepped onto the
platform at the moment Dr. Pusey concluded his re-
marks. Students, faculty, and hundreds of visitors stood
and applauded. Mr. Nixon, tanned and robust, grin-
ned broadly and waved.

He established rapport with his audience immedi-
ately. He mentioned Washington and Lee’s nonsubsi-
dized athletic program in a joshing way; he said he had
not come to the University simply “because you have

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

one of the most highly publicized mock conventions
in the country”; he drew laughs and cheers by saying
he had “tried to find out what you talk about at
Doc's’; he said, “I did not plan this weather in order
to get ready for New Hampshire.” (Snow and _ ice
covered the ground, and the weather was bitter cold.)

His formal address dealt with American leader-
ship in the world and the role youth must play in
maintaining that leadership.

He said today’s college students “live in a time of

very great promise, but very great problems.” He posed
this rhetorical question: “What is your reaction to the
current rebellion of today’s youth?”

His answer: “This is the worst of times, and the
best; we are the richest, strongest nation in the world,
yet we find we have problems—problems which are
more complex than we've ever had in history.

“For example, for the first time President Johnson
is unable to travel anywhere in the world or in the
United States without fear of demonstrations. To an-
swer this, our problems are not subject to answers we
had 20 years ago, so we must look to this generation for
stronger and continued leadership.”

Then he asked, “What are we going to do to pre-
serve peace? Militarily we are superior—and we can-
not afford to dissipate this strength. Let the time never
come when those who seek peace are without military
advantage. If we capitulate anywhere, other nations
will live in terror. We must stop communism in South
Vietnam so that movement cannot be imported or ex-
ported to adjoining countries and the rest of the
world. If communism succeeds in South Vietnam it
will be encouraged to try again elsewhere. The war
must be ended there in a way that does not reward ag-
eression.

“America needs the vision, the dissent, the con-
structive action this generation will provide in the
years ahead,” Mr. Nixon said in concluding his formal
remarks.

What might be considered one hostile question
was asked him concerning whether he agreed with
the methods the nation is using in Vietnam. The ques-
tion was greeted with some signs of dismay in the
audience. (One political reporter wrote: “Washington
and Lee...is an old school, founded in 1749, with
old-school ways, having a radical contingent that
would fit in a Volkswagen.’’)

Mr. Nixon said that the war in Vietnam was
being prolonged “because of the divisions in the
United States” and because of doubts the Johnson
Administration will back up its commitments there.
“Once the Communists are convinced the United
States will use its immense power and is not going to

WINTER 1968

back down, this war will come to a conclusion.” He
said, too, the nation is suffering from a so-called credi-
bility gap on Vietnam “due to the fact that the Ad-
ministration has been hot and cold in its policies and
predictions.” He criticized what he called “the grad-
ualism in the use of air power,” failure to train the
South Vietnamese to assume the conduct of the war
and failure of the Administration to bring “military
and diplomatic leverage” to bear on the Soviet
Union.”

But he declared: “I am not going to stress any

 

 

RICHARD NIXON was, by
turns, serious, jolly, and
earnest. Student LANE
STEINGER (above right)
wanted to know about
“losers.”” With Mr. NIXon
(right) are DEAN WILLIAM
W. Pusey and DAviIp
Jounson, ODK president.

 

15

 

differences that will give the enemy hope of gains
from a new administration.”

Lane B. Steinger, a senior from Creve Coeur, Mo.,
asked Mr. Nixon a question for which he had a
ready answer—an answer which he echoed a few days
later when he made his candidacy official.

Mr. Steinger ran for the presidency of the Wash-
ington and Lee Student Body last year and lost. He
said he and Mr. Nixon had something in common—
a loser’s image. He asked, “For my own edification,
can you tell me how you will actively work to dispel
this image?”

‘““My answer,” Mr. Nixon said, “is the way to dis-
pel it is to win something.” Everybody cheered.

“You can win several elections,” he went on, “and
I have won quite a few. You can run virtually a dead
heat for President against a very attractive political

personality, as I did in 1960, but people generally re-
member, ‘What did you do last?’

“So consequently, if I become a candidate, it will
be my goal to go out into the primaries and to win
as many as I can. If I win them, then I think most fair-
minded Americans will say, “Well, we thought he was
a loser, but he did come back. Now he is a winner,
and then if he wins the primaries maybe he can win
in November.’’’ He said this would be true of any
other potential Republican candidates, “if they go into
the primaries and win them they will get a great take-
off point to win in November. And finally, if I can
make one more partisan comment, I believe that who-
ever is the Republican nominee, he will have a better
than an even chance to win in November against the
Democratic nominee—whoever that is.”

The press gave this comment considerable space,

 

 

   

oh

Mr. Cook

Mr. BrROADUS

  

Mr. BALLENGER

   

Dr. PHILLIPS

ODK Honors Three Alumni, a Professor, 21 Students

ICHARD M. Nixon, by dint of being the front-run-
R ner for the Republican nomination for President
and guest speaker, was the “star” of Washington and
Lee’s Omicron Delta Kappa “tap” ceremony. He was
not “tapped,” however, because he was already a
member (Duke University.)

Still Mr. Nixon did not “steal the show.” He was
not in the gymnasium during the ceremony. He ar-
rived just as it ended.

So for a few minutes the attention of the audience
was fastened on the three alumni, one faculty mem-
ber, and 21 students who were “tapped” for member-
ship.

The alumni honored were Clarence E. Ballenger,
Jr., °44, of Spartanburg, S.C., a civic leader and an
associate of the Craddock Terry Shoe Co.; ‘Thomas
H. Broadus, ’25, of Knoxville, Tenn., owner of an in-
surance agency and a spirited civic leader; and Rod-
ney M. Cook, ’46, of Atlanta, Ga., also the owner of an
insurance agency, a leader in the Fulton County Re-
publican party, and a member of the Atlanta Alder-
manic Council. (Bad weather prevented the arrival of
Mr. Ballenger, and he was “tapped” in absentia.)

16

The faculty member honored was Dr. Charles F.
Phillips, professor of economics, Lexington City Coun-
cilman, and chairman of the Lexington-Rockbridge
Republican Committee.

The students honored were law students W. Gil-
bert Faulk, Jr., of Richmond, Va.; Larry E. Hepler
of Meadville, Pa.; Ronald K. Ingoe of Salem, Va.;
Stafford W. Keegin of Princeton, N. ].; Carroll S.
Klingelhofer, III, of Lutherville, Md., and Randy H.
Lee of Seattle, Wash.

Seniors Tommy M. Baremore of Shreveport, La.;
Paul Alan Bower of Cincinnati, Ohio.; Robert Noel
Clinard of Jacksonville, Fla.; Michael R. Dunn of
Hampton, Va.; Robert S. Keefe of Milford, Conn.;
Barry J. Levin of Norfolk, Va.; Joseph A. Matthews,
Jr., of Marion, Va.; Rutherford P. C. Smith of Sum-
merville, $.C.; Peter R. Strohm of Lakewood, N. J.,
and Wendall L. Winn, Jr., of Norfolk, Va.

Juniors Robert O. Bauer, Jr., of Largo, Fla.; John
F. Carrere, Jr., of New Orleans, La.; Herbert W. Cren-
shaw, Jr., of Forest City, N.C.; M. Lee Halford, Jr., of
Richardson, Texas, and Samuel D. Hinkle, IV, of
Shelbyville, Ky.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

and as any newspaper reader knows Mr. Nixon is
hard to work putting this strategy to work in his
current campaign for the nomination.

Before the questions were cut off, Mr. Nixon made
these other points:

On the third-party threat of George Wallace:
‘Third-party candidates always look better in the
spring than in the fall.”

On the possibility of Gov. Claude Kirk as a vice-
presidential running mate: “I have never believed
in terms of balancing tickets, geographically or ideo-
logically.”

On the Kennedy assassination: “While there is
some uncertainty, until I get harder evidence, I will
accept the Warren Commission’s report.”

On civil disobedience and riots: “The greatness
of America is that we provide institutions for peace-
ful change. We allow for peaceful protest. If the
country is to progress it will do so under the rule of
law. I disagree with the idea that each person should
decide what laws he will obey. There is no cause that
justifies mob violence of any kind.”

On whether Black Power leaders Stokely Car-
michael and H. Rap Brown had crossed the line of
treason: “Technically treason can be committed only
in time of a declared war. Congress should consider
legislation to cope with this gray area.”

On the civil rights movement: “The civil rights
movement of the past 10 years was necessary to open
the doors to Negroes, but now the time has come for
preparing people to walk through those doors. The
answer insofar as the Negro is concerned is not more
people on welfare rolls, but more people on payrolls.”

On the engagement of his daughter, at the age of
19, to a grandson of former President Eisenhower: “T’ll
get into a debate on any subject but that one.”

Mr. Nixon ended his presentation to the sound
of another standing ovation. He hurried out of the
gymnasium to a waiting car.

‘There was no time for the traditional ODK picture
on the steps. There was no room. Students and visitors
pressed in upon him to shake his hand and shout en-
couragement: “Whatever you do, win!” A woman
holding a baby was in the crowd. ‘Kiss the baby,”
several students called out. Mr. Nixon paid no heed.
He shook hands outstretched across the top of the car.

He had been on campus slightly more than an hour.

He waved to the crowd and slipped into the back
seat of the car. The line of cars pulled away slowly,
picking up speed behind a police escort. Mr. Nixon
was off to Roanoke, off to Richmond to address the
Chamber of Commerce, off to the primary wars, off to
Miami Beach—off, perhaps, to the Presidency of the
United States.

WINTER 1968

 

 

 

Meeting of the Twain

ELEVISION VIEWERS who were fans of the show

“The Fugitive” know that Richard Kimball,
the hero, moved far and fast. Washington and
Lee has a Richard Kimball, a freshman from
Ft. Carson, Col., who has moved around quite
a bit himself.

At a tender age, he was on the Nationalist
Chinese island of ‘Taiwan, where his father, an
Army officer, was stationed. Vice President Rich-
ard M. Nixon came calling on a Far Eastern tour
in 1954. The elder Richard cuddled the younger
Richard while a photographer made their pic-
ture.

On January 11, 1968, Richard Nixon came
to Washington and Lee to address the ODK
Assembly. Richard Kimball was there and
showed the old snapshot to the former Vice
President. ‘They chuckled over it. The elder Rich-
ard shook the hand of the younger Richard
while a photographer made their picture. The
results are above.

 

 

 

CONTACT Asks, ‘What’s New, GOP?’

Speakers Answer: A Will to Win

 

««@

SAMUEL LuBELL, public opinion expert, stresses a point at a
seminar session,

 

ROBERT NOVAK, newspaper columnist, ponders a question during
CONTACT symposium.

18

By JOHN HUGHEs

ICHARD NIXON will be the Republican nominee for
RR vresident—it he wins the primaries. That's the
majority opinion—but by no means a unanimous one—
of the six national figures who appeared at Washing-
ton and Lee in February to discuss the Republican
Party.

The six, headed by the 1964 GOP presidential can-
didate Barry Goldwater, spoke and met with students
during the four-day CONTACT symposium. In ad-
dition to Mr. Goldwater, the symposium participants
included Kentucky Sen. Thruston Morton, author
Stephen Hess, columnist Robert Novak, former Mary-
land Gov. Theodore R. McKeldin, and pollster Sam-
uel Lubell.

Sen. Morton summed up the consensus when he
said of Mr. Nixon, “If he wins big in the primaries, he
gets a lot of the loser’s image off his back, he holds his
Southern support, and he could dominate the conven-
tion.”

Mr. Goldwater said Mr. Nixon “has to be the best
candidate because of his eight years’ experience (as
vice president) in foreign affairs.”

Mr. Hess cited odds on all the GOP contenders,
listing Nixon as a 4-1 choice, followed by Gov. Rocke-
feller at 10-1, Gov. Reagan 20-1, Sen. Percy 50-1 and
Gov. Romney 75-1.

Gov. McKeldin, a strong Rockefeller supporter, dis-
sented, stating that “I don’t think Mr. Nixon could
win because his image as a loser is too overwhelming.”

Mr. Lubell also discounted Nixon’s chances, saying,
“He would need a lot of discontent in the country to
be elected.” Mr. Novak agreed that Gov. Rockefeller
is the leading contender now, but Mr. Nixon “most
likely will be nominated if he doesn’t lose in the
primaries.” All of the speakers generally agreed Govs.
Romney and Reagan have only outside chances for
the nomination. (This was before Gov. Romney with-
drew.)

But whoever the nominee, he will be a man who
the Republicans think can beat President Johnson in
November, the six concurred in principle.

“All Republicans now agree that the main cri-
terion at the convention will be ‘Can he win?’”’ Said

Joun E. Hucues, °55, ts director of the University’s news
bureau and a frequent contributor to the Alumni Magazine.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Hess. Sen. Morton simply said “I’m getting damn sick
and tired of losing elections.”

The six were in general agreement on the issues
the Republicans will face in the fall, although Mr.
Goldwater felt the Vietnam war “will be over to the
point that it will not be an issue” and crime-in-the-
streets will be an issue “only if it breaks out between
now and the convention.”

Such an outbreak will benefit the Democrats, sev-
eral speakers mentioned. “The best thing that can
happen to President Johnson is for Dick Gregory to
have a first class riot in the stockyards outside the Dem-
ocratic convention,” said Mr. Hess. Mr. Novak agreed
such an event would be ‘a plus rather than a minus”
lor the Democrats.

Mr. Goldwater feels civil rights will not be the
great issue it has been in past campaigns. “I think the
American people are now in a mood to do anything
to get this issue straightened out,” he commented. “I
sense a great change across this country, and especially
in the South.”

In contrast, Gov. McKeldin says the urban riot
issue “overshadows all our problems. We have got to
do something about riots before they happen. The
main thing is to get jobs for people in the ghettos. It’s
better to make work for them than have them burning
things down.”

While Mr. Goldwater thinks the Vietnam war may
terminate quickly, Novak disputed this, saying he
finds “no evidence at all that there’s going to be an
end to the war soon.” Mr. Novak said he does see “the
possibility of a negotiated settlement, but not a mili-
tary victory.”

sen. Morton and Mr. Goldwater disagreed com-
pletely on the conduct of the war. Morton feels the
U.S. should “eliminate the bombing around Hanoi
and Haiphong.”

Such bombing merely increases the will of the
North Vietnamese to resist, Sen. Morton contended,
while at the same time “we are not capturing the
hearts and minds of the people in the South.”

In contrast, Mr. Goldwater would “destroy the
material on the docks of Haiphong,” where, he said,
55 per cent of the North Vietnamese war material is
brought in. “Deny them the weapons and ammunition
and the war will end in a hurry,” he said.

The former Arizona senator said this is the only
action he would take in Vietnam that President John-
son hasn't already. “I would do what he’s doing, but I
would have done it a lot faster,’ he said.

Speaking of Korea, Mr. Goldwater said “I have
grave doubts we could support another war (there),
because of a lack of aircraft.” A major general in the
Air Force Reserve, Goldwater said the U.S. has lost a
great number of tactical planes in Vietnam and _ is

WINTER 1968

  

  

x
® & ‘ ES
re, tod > oo
y ~ »
. % =.

STUDENTS JOSEPH WILSON (left) and JEFFREY WaAINscotr welcome
former SEN. BARRY GOLDWATER at Staunton airport.

 

STEPHEN Hess, political researcher and author, and former Gov.
‘Treopore McKeELpIn talk outside Lee Chapel.

19

 

eters

extremely short of pilots. He cited examples of “pot-
bellied, gray-haired, old men in jets” and “one 53-year-
old colonel who has flown 100 missions.”

Whither CON TACT?

The four-year-old student symposium on _ public
issues, CONTACT, has grown each year in impor-
tance and in the amount of attention it gets. But
whether it will continue to grow, or even survive, de-
pends on that old, crass bugaboo—money.

It costs a lot to bring a group of nationally known
figures—such as this year’s participants. The recently-
completed 1968 CONTACT operated on a total bud-
get of about $5,500, of which more than $4,500 went
for honorariums and expenses for speakers.

Simply stated by CONTACT chairman Stafford W.
Keegin, a senior law student from Princeton, N. J.:
“We need money.”

CONTACT is planned and carried out almost en-
tirely by students through the Interfraternity Coun-
cil. ‘To finance it this year, they received $2,500 by
assessing each of the University’s 18 social fraterni-
ties, another $1,400 from a $1-a-head assessment of
students, and the remaining $2,000 in donations from
parents, alumni and friends.

The CONTACT committee is exploring the pos-
sibility of getting a “matching” grant for its con-
tribution from a benevolent foundation.

The symposium has come a long way since it be-
gan four years ago as an attempt to explore current
public issues in depth. The firsts CONTACT brought
controversial Dr. James Silver to the campus, along
with the New York Times’ Tom Wicker, among

20

oe
df tad
_

i

 

Sen. THRUSTON MORTON engages the
attention of students Wess De-
Horr, ROGER CLARKE, and STAFFORD
Keecin, CONTACT chairman.

others, to discuss ““The American Experience’. ‘The
next year, 1966, CONTACT explored “The City,”
with such speakers as Negro author Claude Brown
and writer Michael Harrington. Last year former
CORE director James Farmer and Alabama’s Rich-
mond Flowers headed the team discussing “The
Crumbling Establishment.”

This year’s exploration in depth of the Repub-
lican Party was a “natural,” because of Washington
and Lee’s Mock Convention, May 3-4, which itself
continues to enjoy more national attention.

Both Mr. Goldwater and Sen Morton alluded to
the mock convention. “This one and the one at Pur-
due are the ones we really watch,’ commented Gold-
water. Morton called the W&L Mock Convention
“really reliable.”

All of the speakers were warm in their praise of
CONTACT, especially of the format, which included
seminars, panel discussions and question-and-answer
sessions with the audience in addition to the speeches.

Mr. Keegin, the outgoing chairman of CONTACT
(he graduates in June), feels every effort should be
made to keep the program. “I think it’s one of the
really great things this school has got. I’ve had
friends at some of the really large universities tell
me they don’t have anything to compare with it.”

Mr. Keegin feels the theme every four years prob-
ably should revolve around politics “because of the
Mock Convention,” but in off-election years should
explore whatever topic is currently a national issue.
In any event, “It should reflect the interests of the
students.

“After all, it’s their show.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Know Your
Class Agent
For 1967-68

1914-A—Colonel Paul J. B. Murphy, “Kolosandra”’, Staun-
ton, Virgina 24401

1918 —General Robert V. Ignico, Clearwater, Florida 33516
1919 —Gus A. Fritchie, Slidell, Louisiana 70458
1920-A—Edward G. Bailey, Richmond, Virginia 23221
1920-L—Harold G. Robertson, Salem, Virginia 24153
1921-A—Samuel L. Raines, M.D., Memphis, Tennessee 38104
1921-L—Howard K. Gibbons, Harrisonburg, Virginia 22801
1922-A—Dewey A. Reynolds, Holiday, Florida 33589
1922-L—Love B. Rouse, Bristol, Virginia 24201
1923-A—George Mason, Madison, North Carolina 27025
1923-L—Judge I. H. Streeper, III, Alton, Illinois 62002
1924-A—Glenn Stoutt, Chattanooga, Tennessee 37405
1924-L—Matthew P. Matheney, E1 Dorado, Arkansas 71730

1925-A—Philip F. Howerton, Charlotte, North Carolina
28201

1925-L—William A. McRitchie, Bronxville, New York 10708
1926-A—John D. Mayhew, Timonium, Maryland 21093
1926-L—Judge Earle A. Cadmus, Chesapeake, Virginia 23320
1927-A—A. H. Crowell, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania 19035
1927-L—C. Welles Little, Hagerstown, Maryland 21740
1928-A—Joseph B. Copper, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15230
1928-L—B. J. Wagner, Miami Beach, Florida 33139
1929-A—Henry P. Johnston, Birmingham, Alabama 35223
1929-L—Philip R. Becker, Dayton, Ohio 45402
1930-A—Earl T. Jones, Raleigh, North Carolina 27610
1930-L—Benjamin L. Rawlins, New York, New York 10006

1931-A—John Madison Dean, San Francisco, California
94103

1931-L—James B. Martin, Gloucester, Virginia 23061
1932-A—M. William Adelson, Baltimore, Maryland 21202
1932-L—Albert G. Peery, Tazewell, Virginia 24651

1933-A—W. Todd DeVan, II, M.D., Hanover, Pennsyl-
vania 17331

1933-L—George Joseph, Flint, Michigan 48503
1934-A—George L. Reynolds, Haddonfield, New Jersey 08033
1934-L—Robert D. Bailey, Charleston, West Virginia 25305

1935-A—Claibourne H. Darden, Greensboro, North Carolina
27405

1935-L—W. W. Fowlkes, San Antonio, Texas 78205
1936-A—William S. Johnson, Chattanooga, Tennessee 37411
1936-L—William L. Martin, Roanoke, Virginia 24015
1937-A—Everett A. Martin, Norfolk, Virginia 23510

WINTER 1968

1937-L—James A. Blalock, Dallas, ‘Texas 752006

1938-A—Robert M. White, II, Mexico, Missouri 65265
1938-L—Henry T. Merritt, Louisville, Kentucky 40202
1939-A—William King Self, Marks, Mississippi 38046

1939-L—G. William Swift, Jr., Lake Charles, Louisiana
70601

1940-A—Michael P. Crocker, Bel Air, Maryland 21014
1940-L—John C. White, Bethesda, Maryland 20016
1941-A—James R. McConnell, Hagerstown, Maryland 21749
1941-L—Ralph Keehn, Seguin, Texas 78155
1942-A—Edgar M. Boyd, Baltimore, Maryland 21218
1942-L—Massie Yuille, Charlottesville, Virginia 22903

1943 —Ben W. Ditto, Houston, Texas 77002

1944 —David R. Embry, Houston, Texas 77027

1945 —L. Gordon Miller, Jr., Richmond, Virginia 23229
1946 —Frank C. Brooks, Baltimore, Maryland 21202

1947. —Harold T. Chittum, Jr., Orlando, Florida 32809

1948-A—Frederic B. M. Hollyday, Durham, North Caro-
olina 27705

1948-L—John E. Scheifly, Los Angeles, California 90017
1949-A—Mike Malmo, Mount Airy, North Carolina 27030
1949-L—J. Randolph Larrick, Winchester, Virginia 22601
1950-A—J. H. McCormack, Jr., Jacksonville, Florida 32203
1950-L—George H. Gray, Norfolk, Virginia 23510
1951-A—Jack E. Kannapell, Jr., Glenview, Kentucky 40025

1951-L—Wade H. Ballard, III, Peterstown, West Virginia
24963

1952-A—Richard A. Denny, Jr., Atlanta, Georgia 30303
ee eae T. Hunt, Jr., Greensboro, North Carolina
1953-A—Chester T. Smith, Jr., Darien, Connecticut 06820
1953-L—Robert E. Glenn, Roanoke, Virginia 24014
1954-A—Stephen H. Snow, Media, Pennsylvania 19063
1954-L—Gil Bocetti, Greensboro, North Carolina 27420
1955-A—David M. Clinger, Richmond, Virginia 23220
1955-L—Reese W. Stipes, II, Flint, Michigan 48502
1956-A—William C. Norman, Jr., Pine Bluff, Arkansas 71601
1956-L—Claude W. Nicholson, Ashtabula, Ohio 44004
1957-A—William J. Russell, Jr., Malvern, Pa. 19355
1957-L—Thomas C. Broyles, Virginia Beach, Virginia 23451
1958-A—Dominick A. Flora, Chagrin Falls, Ohio 44022
1958-L—Richard D. Haynes, Dallas, Texas 75201
1959-A—Charles D. Hurt, Jr., Atlanta, Georgia 30310
1959-L—Alexander S. MacNabb, Arlington, Virginia 22203
1960-A—Frank S. Glaser, New York, New York 10028
1960-L—G. O. Clemens, Salem, Virginia 24153
1961-A—John W. Atwell, Jr., Hampton, Virginia 23364
1961-L—Warren R. Welsh, Coral Gables, Florida 33134
1962-A—Stephen W. Rutledge, Cincinnati, Ohio 45230
1962-L—Raymond R. Robrecht, Jr., Roanoke, Va. 24015
1963-A—Thomas M. Keesee, Jr., Memphis, Tennessee 38111
1963-L—Jay W. Johnson, Columbus, Ohio 43211
1964-A—E. H. Hollman, Belleville, Illinois 62223
1964-L—Barry W. Kerchner, Pottstown, Pennsylvania 19464
1965-A—Richard R. Kreitler, Kansas City, Missouri 64111
1965-L—William Dyer Anderson, Alexandria, Virginia 22311
1966-A—Charles E. Long, III, Austin, Texas 78705
1966-L—Baxter L. Davis, Atlanta, Georgia 30303
1967-A—J. McDaniel Holladay, Memphis, Tennessee 38111
1967-L—Charles C. Bowie, Rockville, Maryland 20852

21

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

j
:
:
i
:
4
3

Depate Coach WILLIAM CHAFFIN, surrounded by trophies, calls his office “King Tut's Tomb.”

THE A

 

Photo by John Hughes

LUMNI MAGAZINE

i. WALK FAs. ‘Lhey have to. ‘hey are under
the clock. They have to make their points before
the timer signals stop.

Debaters move fast. They go from tournament to
tournament, preparing, practicing, traveling, snatch-
ing sleep, eating on the run—men in a hurry.

Washington and Lee debaters are pacemakers in
this rapid pursuit. They go, talk, and conquer often—
learning in the process, winning personal satisfaction,
and bringing laurels to Washington and Lee Unzi-
versity in the realm of public speaking.

‘Vhe credit must go to the University’s hard-work-
ing, victory-minded debaters. But they have a guiding
hand—or rather a guiding voice—that of William W.
Chaffin, associate professor of English and speech and
debate coach par excellence.

Run into Bill Chaffin anywhere, and you are likely
to find him talking about debating at a fast clip. And
if you do not listen very carefully you are apt to miss
a few gems.

What is debating like at Washington and Lee, and
what is is like to be the debate coach? Let Prof.
Chaffin tell it. Hang on... here goes:

 

RESOLVED:
Not Cold, Nor Snow, Nor Dark of Night

“Driving at least 10,000 miles a _ year, fre-
quently all night long, at times through snow
storms...that’s one thing...going the same
year by car to such distant places as Detroit,
Miami, Chicago, and Hanover, N. H.... having
to work every Saturday afternoon in some far
off city during the months of October, Novem-
ber, February and March... starting, usually
after dark, back to Lexington, competing with
Saturday night traffic on crowded highways.

You get back to your office only in time to
answer the mail that has arrived in your ab-
sence, see students who have assignments in
your classes for the coming week, and prepare
for the next trip which usually starts three to
four days after you have returned from the last
trip.

This is only part of the life of the faculty
member in charge of debate.

At least 300 students—perhaps more—have
been exposed to formal college debating since
the fall of 1960 at Washington and Lee. Why
do they do it? The University gives no academic
credit for this activity. It offers no debate schol-
arships, as many schools do. It may be because
most of our students come from verbally arti-
culate families. It may be because many of
them have debated in secondary school. It may
be because they like the spirit of clash and con-
flict that goes with debating. Maybe they want
to go into law or politics and want this practical
experience. Maybe they just enjoy debating.

WINTER 1968

 

Whatever the answer may be, the job of
meeting with 50 or more potential debaters
early in September, encouraging them, arrang-
ing an intraschool three-round debate tourna-
ment for novice debaters—always with the
generous help of upperclass debaters who help
the novices find evidence and put cases together
and judge the debates—this job falls ultimately
to the debate coach.

While this is going on, the experienced de-
baters are busy putting together their cases,
analyzing evidence, most of which was compiled
during the last few weeks of the summer vaca-
tion, reducing their findings to hundreds of
index cards and collecting them in_ several
portable file cases. These young men at times
spend as much energy and diligence before the
debate season starts as would be required to
write many an M.A. thesis.

In early October a week or so after the intra-
school novice tournament, the debate team is
host to a three-round novice tournament for
Virginia colleges. This tournament is on a Mon-
day, Tuesday, or Wednesday because just about
every weekend from early October to Christmas
vacation is filled up with invitations to debate—
as many as half a dozen invitations on some
weekends.

For example, this school year the first debate
“road trip” was to the University of North Caro-
lina on the second weekend in October—a
tournament which Washington and Lee won.

28

 

 

 

 

 

Then every weekend—with the exception of

Parents’ Weekend in October when the debaters
put on a demonstration debate for parents—
Washington and Lee teams were traveling to
Winston-Salem, Atlanta, Columbia, 5S. C.,
Charleston, W. Va., Charlottesville, Washing-
ton, D.C., and back to Winston-Salem, until
alter the first week in December.

During this period, no debater traveled dur-
ing two consecutive school weekends. But the
coach went every weekend to all of these places,
except when Washington and Lee teams were
in Charlottesville and Charleston simultane-
ously. That time Washington and Lee had to
hire a judge at Charleston, because during
tournaments coaches spend their time judging
other teams. Most tournaments do not like to
hire judges, and if a judge can be hired, the fee
is from $20 to $50. Besides, there is always the
problem of getting the team to a tournament
that the coach does not attend. So the coach al-
most always has to travel with the teams.

Our policy here is to inform the debaters
which tournaments they will participate in,
hopefully weeks in advance. We get them work-
ing on both the affirmative and the negative side
of the national question.

The question this year, by the way, is “Re-
solved, That the Federal Government Will
Guarantee to All Citizens a Minimum Annual
Cash Income.”

We have a series of practice debates the
week before the debate tournament coming up.
This means the coach listens sometimes to as
many as five one-hour debates, with a critique
afterward—usually around 4:30 in the afternoon
or even as late as 10 to 10:30 at night.

Since most tournaments are six or eight
rounds and start either late Thursday after-
noon or early Friday morning, we pile our
people into the coach’s car and start out either
early ‘Thursday morning or after classes on

 

Between debate trips, PROF.
CHAFFIN and his debaters
sharpen their points for the next
tournament.

Thursday or early Friday morning when no
other creature is even thinking about getting
up. Most of our tournaments are 200 to 300
miles away from Lexington.

There is never much time to spare. A few
years ago one of our teams arrived at Harvard
in early February at the end of a snow storm,
a few minutes before the first round started,
still dressed in traveling clothes. And in Janu-
ary of 1968, the team had to be at Williamsburg
for the first round before 5:30 p.m., but
could not leave until noon on the last day of
examinations.

If there is time, the team checks into the
hotel or motel at which the coach has made
reservations. Clothes are changed. If the trip
is a night one, the team has dinner or a snack,
depending on the time, and goes to bed ex-
hausted...only to get up in time to drive to
the college where the debate is being held,
hopefully near the lodging.

The debaters have a continental breakfast
of doughnuts and coffee at the tournament
headquarters, followed by the first round debate
almost never later than nine o’clock in the
morning and sometimes eight o’clock. A few
civilized tournaments take pity on the partici-
pants and begin at ten.

Never less than 10 and sometimes as many
as 100 schools have from two to four debaters
present for these tournaments. The big regional
and national tournaments have eight rounds—
usually four rounds a day and two days to get
through the eight—two in the morning and
two in the afternoon. Now more and more of
them are scheduling three rounds back-to-back
either in the afternoon or in the evening. In
February, Northwestern had five in one day, the
first starting at 3 p.m. and the fifth at 10 p.m.

After such a day, many tournaments will
have a buffet dinner for all the participants,
followed by a reception for the coaches and

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

sometimes a party for the debaters. Many have
only an awards luncheon, or an awards lunch-
eon and a buffet after the first full day of
activity.

Some tournaments provide no meals at all.
The registration fee is supposed to be based on
the cost of the tournament to the host school.
‘The fee will range from a low of $10 to $15 for
debaters and coach, with no food, to a high of
$90 for the coach and team, with about six
meals over a three-day period. ‘The usual cost
is between $25 for three people to $50 for five.

The trend now is to have the top 16 teams,
chosen on the basis of the first six or eight
rounds, engage in an elimination tournament.
This necessitates a third day of competition,
consisting of an additional four rounds for the
two teams that reach the championship round.

During the fall of 1967, on two occasions—
one at Emory University and the other at Wake
Forest University—Washington and Lee teams
reached the semifinals. ‘This qualified them for
participation in the ‘Tournaments of Champ-
ions held at Michigan State University in April
for all teams getting at least to the semifinals
of certain designated national tournaments. In
mid-February Washington and Lee _ teams
reached the semifinals at William and Mary and
the quarter finals at the very prestigious na-
tional tournament at Northwestern University,
which drew 86 schools.

At both Emory and at Wake Forest, Wash-
ington and Lee debaters spent more than 11
hours just debating, and the coach an equal
amount of time judging other teams.

After any tournament is over—after the ten-
sion of waiting for the results to be announced
or the endless dragging of time when a Wash-
ington and Lee team has made it to the elimina-
tion rounds—the boys and the coach pile back
into the car and head for Lexington. Happi-
ness does not reign unless Washington and Lee

WINTER 1968

 

DERATERS TOMMY M. BAREMORE
(left) and CurisrorpHer H. MILLs,
back from a tournament, add
another trophy to the pile.

NOTE: On March 17, Tommy M. Baremore, a senior
from Shreveport, La., drowned in the Maury River at
Goshen. He was hiking with a friend, slipped, hit his
head on a rock, and fell into the river. He and Mr.
Mills, a day earlier at Villanova, had qualified Wash-
ington and Lee for the National Invitational Debate
Tournament. Mr. Baremore had tied for third best
speaker at the Villanova tournament.

has won the tournament—which has happened
more than a dozen times going on eight years.
But then the odds against winning are stagger-
ing—often more than 100 to 1 when 150 or so
teams are present. Even in horse racing, the
highest odd is fixed at 100 to 1!

But there is often compensation when vic-
tory is absent. One member of the party will
have won a speaker's award or one team will
have placed high enough to win an award of
some kind,

So the team travels back to Lexington as
the night wears on. Perhaps snow begins to fall,
the heater will not work properly, and the temp-
erature falls to zero. ‘The team arrives in time
to see the dawn break and perhaps get dressed
for church on Sunday morning. After a few
hours rest, the coach has to start worrying about
next week’s tournament and possibly breaking
in an entirely new group of debaters. It is kind
of like a football coach with a season lasting
from October through April, using a different
team each week.

As the coach sits in his office between tourna-
ments, it is not the 60 to 70 trophies surround-
ing him on all sides and levels—making his
office resemble King ‘Tut’s ‘Tomb—that makes
this activity vital, alive and worthwhile. The
true reward is in watching young men mature
intellectually, develop a more effective form
of communication, and acquire a sense of orga-
nization, with the use of evidence.

This more than compensates for the 18-hour
days, the 14-hour drives, the snow storms and
the 18 to 20 weekend trips every school year.”

Ww

Think of what has been said here as being spoken
by Prof. Chaffin in his rat-a-tat mode of speech—crisp,
distinct, fast, and to the point—and you have a good
notion of what debating and debate coaching at
Washington and Lee are all about.

25

 

 

 

 

 

Mr. COLEMAN

 

Mr. LEACH

 

CoAcH MCLAUGHLIN

A Change in Command in Three Departments

EXT YEAR, Washington and Lee
N will have a new head librar-
ian, a new athletic director, and a
new head of the Department of
Journalism and Communications.

The new librarian is Maurice
D. Leach, Jr. On July 1 he will
succeed Henry E. Coleman, Jr., who
is retiring after being head librar-
ian at Washington and Lee for 20
years.

The new athletic director and
head of the Department of Physi-
cal Education is Lee M. Mce-
Laughlin, head football coach. He
will succeed Edwin P. (Cy) Twomb-
ly, who is retiring at the age of 7o.
The change is effective Sept. 1.

The new heard of the Depart-
ment of Journalism and Communi-
cations is Prof. Paxton Davis, who,
on September 1, will succeed Prof.
O. W. Riegel. Prof. Riegel has
reached the retirement age for de-
partment heads.

The appointments were an-
nounced by Dr. William W. Pusey,
III, Dean of the College and, at
the time, Acting President of the
Universiay.

Librarian
Mr. Leach, 44, is now on leave of

absence from his post as professor
and chairman of the Department of

26

Library Science at the University of
Kentucky and is at American Uni-
versity in Bierut, Lebanon, as a
special adviser to the Ford Founda-
tion. He will return to this country
in June.

He is a graduate of the Univer-
sity of Kentucky, where he received
a bachelor’s degree in history in
1945. He also attended the Univer-
sity of Chicago, where he obtained
his degree in library science.

He has held library posts with
the ‘Texas College of Arts and In-
dustries and the U.S. Department
of State. He has spent much time
in the Near East as assistant attache
with the U. S. Foreign Service and
the U. S. Information Agency. As a
specialist in library science for the
Ford Foundation, he has assisted
in developing and building librar-
ies for colleges, universities, and
governments in the Middle East.

Mr. Leach reads or speaks three
foreign languages—French, Ger-
man, and Arabic—and has contrib-
uted to several professional books
and journals. A U. S. Army vet-
eran, he is married and the father
of a daughter.

Mr. Coleman said that after re-
tirement he hopes to get a lot of
well-needed rest, which has been
owed him since taking the job.

A native of Halifax County, Va.,

Mr. Coleman came to Washington
and Lee in 1948 after having held
library positions at Northwestern,
the University of lowa, Western
Washington College in Bellingham,
Wash., and Washington College in
Chestertown, Md.

A graduate of Centre College and
the University of North Carolina,
Mr. Coleman received his degree in
library science from the University
of Illinois and his master’s in li-
brary science from the University of
Michigan.

Athletic Director

Coach McLaughlin, alter assum-
ing the post of athletic director,
will continue as head _ football
coach, a position he has held since
coming to Washington and Lee in
1957:

Coach ‘Twombly will continue as
golf coach and lecturer in physical
education in 1968-1969.

Coach McLaughlin had the job
of revitalizing Washington and
Lee’s football program following
the desubsidization of all athletics
in 1954. He had several lean sea-
sons; then, beginning in 1960, his
teams produced a three-year rec-
ord of 25 victories with only one
defeat and a tie. This period in-
cluded unbeaten seasons in 1960

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

and 1961. His overall record as
football coach is 48 victories, 43
defeats, and four ties.

Coach McLaughlin is a native of
the Lexington area, grew up in
the Richmond area, and won f[oot-
ball fame as a lineman at the
University of Virginia from 1938
to 1941. He spent one year with
the Green Bay Packers before enter-
ing naval service in World War LI.
After the war, he joined the staff
of Episcopal High School in Alex-
andria, where he coached football
and track and later became ath-
letic director.

Coach ‘Twombly joined _ the
Washington and Lee athletic staff
in 1921 as coach of golf and swim-
ming. Since then his teams have
recorded more than 400 victories.

His swimming teams once won
four consecutive Southern Confer-
ence championships, and for five
years in a row they never lost a
dual meet. His golf teams won two
Southern Conference titles and
four state championships in compil-
ing an overall 167-102 record. He
became athletic director in 1954.

Coach Twombly was a _ profes-
sional baseball pitcher for 15 years,
including two seasons in the major
leagues with the St. Louis Cardin-
als and the Chicago White Sox. He
played with or against such greats
as Walter Johnson, Tris Speaker,
Babe Ruth, and ‘Ty Cobb.

 

  

oer TRE

ee a i wins

In golf, he holds the course rec-
ord of 63 at Lexington’s ‘Tri-
Brook Country Club. Although pri-
marily golf and swimming coach,
he has at times coached football,
basketball, and baseball during his
46 years on the Washington and
Lee athletic staff. A native of Mas-
attended Lehigh
University and is a graduate of
Springfield College.

sachusetts, he

Journalism Head

Prof. Davis, 42, is a native of
Winston-Salem, N. C., and joined
the Washington and Lee faculty in
1953 after a career as a newspaper-
man with the Winston-Salem Jour-
nal and Sentinel and the Richmond
Times-Dispatch. He attended Vir-
ginia Military Institute in 1942-43
and, after duty as a combat medic
in Burma during World War II,
received his A.B. degree from Johns
Hopkins University in 1949.

Prof. Davis is the author of four
books. His most recent novel The
Seasons of Heroes was published
last year. Several of his short stories,
novel excerpts, and poems have
appeared in national magazines.

Prof. Davis is chairman of the
committee which administers the

Glasgow Endowment Fund, under
which leading literary figures lec-
ture and serve in residence at the
University.

Since 1961, Prof. Davis has edited
the Sunday book page of the Roa-
noke Times, and during the sum-
mers of 1960 and 1961 he was an
editorial writer and business editor
for the Winston-Salem newspapers.

Prof. Riegel, 65, joined the facul-
ty in 1930 and became head of the
Department of
Communications in 1934. He will
continue to teach courses in the
department.

Journalism and

An expert in the field of propa-
ganda and public opinion research,
Prof. Riegel frequently has been a
consultant to the U. S. Government
and private agencies on European
affairs. He has traveled extensively
in Europe in that connection.

He is the author of a book Mo-
bilizing for Chaos, which was pub-
lished in 1934 and is a discussion
of government control of the press.
He served with the U. S. Office of
War Information during World
War II.

A native of Reading, Pa., Prof.
Riegel attended Lawrence College
and is a graduate of the University
of Wisconsin and Columbia Uni-
versity. He worked on newspapers
in Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, was
on the Paris staff of the Chicago
Tribune and New York Daily

News. He taught at Dartmouth
College before coming to Washing-
ton and Lee.

 

Above left Coach Twomey is shown at the controls of his personal golf cart, presented to him by a group of alumni who played on
his golf teams. With him are J. TyLer (Bup) Bowie, ‘43, of Chevy Chase, Md., and Grorce Macueras of the Lexington Golf Club.
Above right are Pror. Davis (left) and Pror. RIeceL.

WINTER 1968

27

 

 

Class
Notes

 

 

 

1911

WILLIAM F. BLANTON reports that he is
actively and happily engaged in his 50th
year as senior county judge of Dade
County, Fla.

1915

Jupce Witpur C. HALL, of Leesburg, Va.,
a man who insists on keeping the pace,
after distinguishing himself in the prac-
tice of law for more than 50 years was
named by the Times-Mirror Newspaper
as the “Citizen of the Year” of 1967. Judge
Hall was a delegate to the Virginia
Assembly from Loudoun County from
1g18 to 1935. He was Virginia’s first chair-
man of the Conservation Commission. In
the field of oratory Wilbur Hall is said
to have no peer. He has made speeches
in practically every public building, town
and hamlet in Loudoun County, as well
as throughout Virginia. Fifteen of his
speeches have been printed in Congres-
sional Records over the years. In June,
1967, Judge Hall received the Honorary
Degree of Doctor of Laws from Wash-
ington and Lee University. The editorial
page of the Times-Mirror is quoted as
saying, “Mr. Hall’s great service to the
Commonwealth of Virginia and its citi-
zens, as a legislator and as a leader, and
to his community as a public spirited
citizen, qualifies him for a high place
in the history of Loudoun County and
Virginia.”

1922

A. C. MurpaucGu writes that he took ad-
vantage of a second retirement to spend
three months in the Mediterranean last
spring enjoying places he had seen
through a porthole during World War
Il with the sixth fleet.

28

NoOTrIcE

= THE PRICE Of the Washington and Lee Chair
is now $35.00 f.o.b. Gardner, Mass. The chair is
made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black and gold trim, with arms finished in cherry.
All profit from sales of the chair goes to the
scholastic fund in memory of John Graham, ‘14.
Mail your order to: Washington and Lee Alum-

ni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450.

Any hall of fame for prep school coaches
would include Bernard H. (Hop)
ArBoGaAst, long-time builder of football,
basketball, track, and golf powers at
Asheville School for Boys in North Caro-
lina. Coach Arbogast retired as coach
and athletic director in November after
the football game with arch-rival Christ
School. He had a record of 38 years at
Asheville School. The sports records for
Asheville School are most impressive. Un-
questionably the finest year was 1935-36
when Coach Arbogast coached his great-
est track team, an undefeated football
team, and a basketball team that had 11
victories and one close loss. More awe
inspiring in the career of the great coach
were the collegiate accomplishments of
his products. Arbogast was an All-South-
ern end at Washington and Lee. His
coaching career started at Old Weaver
College in 1923 after he had coached at
Bingham Military Academy and joined
Asheville School as line coach in 1990.
Richard Morris, columnist for the Citi-
zen-Times in Asheville says of Coach Ar-
bogast, “No man, whether he be player
or coach in high school or college, pro
or amateur sports, ever gave more of
himself to the development and advance-
ment of sports and to the building of
men than B. H. (Hop) Arbogast.”

1923

Although retired from the faculty of
Western Maryland College, FRANK B.
Hurt is busy as head of the Division of
Social Sciences at Ferrum Junior College.

1924

After 37 years of service, GLENN R.
Sroutr retired Dec. 31, 1967, from Sky-

land International Corp. He has been
an officer and director since 1945. Mr.
Stoutt lives in Chattanooga, Tenn.

1925

Vint L. CHoate will retire in Jan., 1968,
after 41 years in the public utility field.
He is presently assistant controller of Lee
Telephone Company and _ division  ac-
countant for Western Power and Gas
Company of Lincoln, Neb.

1926

The Hamilton Watch Co. has announced
several new executive assignments. RUFUs
A. FULTON has been named by the com-
pany as vice-president for marketing and
for Hamilton’s new clock activities. To
Mr. Fulton is added the responsibility
for the firm’s recently-acquired Semca
Clock Co. Mr. Fulton joined Hamilton in
1956 when he was elected vice-president
for marketing. He was elected to the
board of directors in 1958 and has served
in both capacities since that time. Prior
to Mr. Fulton’s joining Hamilton Watch
Co., he was president of the Fulton Co.
in Philadelphia and had been associated
with Armstrong Cork Co. in sales manage-
ment positions.

Long time admissions director for Wood-
berry Forest School, JAcK G. CHAPMAN
has recently retired.

LANDON E. SMITH is practicing architec-
ture and engineering in Roanoke, Va. He
is a member of the firm of Smithey &
Boynton.

1927

The Progresstve Farmer has named
RICHARD S. BARNETT, JR., as the “1967
Man of the Year in Service to Arkansas

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Witsur C. HALL, ‘15

Agriculture.” Dick is president and gen-
eral manager of Elms Planting Co. in
Altheimer, Ark., a long time leader in
modern farming methods. Barnett serves
as chairman of many regional and na-
tional programs such as the Beltwide
Cotton Production and Mechanization
Conference. He is a_ director of the
Arkansas Rice Growers Cooperative As-
sociation and is a former member of the
Arkansas Highway Commission.

1928

Since 1965, GerALp F. Horine has been
retired as Washington, D.C., Zone Man-
ager for Lincoln-Mercury Division of
Ford Motor Co. He presently lives in
Alexandria, Va.

After many successful years of practicing
law in Miami, Fla., C. J. HOLLAND has
retired and moved to Arizona.

1929

Announcement was made Nov. 8, 1967,
that WiLtIAM B. JAcoss was elected senior
vice president by the Board of Directors
of the Central National Bank of Rich-
mond, Va. Mr. Jacobs heads the trust
department. Following graduation from
Washington and Lee he received a mas-
ter’s degree from the School of Business
Administration of Harvard University.
Mr. Jacobs, a native of Suffolk, joined
the Central National Bank in 1933. He
is a past president of the Kiwanis Club
and Estate Planning Council of Rich-
mond. Mr. Jacobs is a director in many
business concerns and his community
activities include the advisory board of
the Salvation Army, the executive board
of the Robert E. Lee Council of the
Boy Scouts of America, board of trustees
of the Richmond Memorial Hospital,

WINTER 1968

Rurus A. FULTON, ‘26

and the boards of directors of the Na-
tional Tobacco Festival and the Boys
Club of Richmond.

1930

In August, 1966, WILLIAM IT. STUCHELL,
JR., was appointed assistant general coun-
sel for the Metropolitan Life Insurance
Co. with offices in New York City. Bill,
a resident of Darien, Conn., has been
elected to membership in the Sons of
the Revolution Society. He has also been
recently made a member of the Society
of Colonial Wars in the state of New
York.

1931

Having been in the insurance business
and in the mortgage and real estate busi-
ness, Ecperr E. HALL now confines his
activities to estate planning.

1932

At the University of Louisville (Ky.) Dr.
Avex M. Forrester is Clinical Professor
of Otolaryngology.

In addition to his position of general
counsel for the Norfolk and Western
Railroad Co., MArtTIN P. Burks, III, is
a director of the Shenandoah Life In-
surance Co. and the Colonial-American
National Bank of Roanoke, Va.

Jack G. Marks is completing his first
year as Juvenile Court judge—an assign-
ment as Superior Court judge.

Owner-developer William K. H. Man
announces the appointment of HERBERT
G. DotvaAnrre, Il, as general manager of
the new Ambassador Hotel of Waikiki,
Hawaii. Dollahite first went to Hawaii
go years ago to become executive assistant
in the Matson Hawaiian Hotel Division
which constructed the world famous Royal

 

WILLIAM B. JACoBs, ‘29

Hawaiian Hotel. He remained as techni-
cal advisor to the Admiral in Charge
when the hotel was taken over by the
Navy in World War II. After three years
in Africa and Europe, he operated leased
hotels for the Air Transport Command.
Following separation from the service,
Dollahite returned to the Royal Hawaiian
in 1947. His career has included executive
positions with such prestige establish-
ments as the Greenbrier in West Vir-
ginia, the Hotel del Coronado in South-
ern California, the Boca Raton Club in
Florida, the Mayflower Hotel in Wash-
ington, and the Colony in Palm Beach,
Fla. The formal opening of the Ambas-
sador Hotel of Waikiki is scheduled for
March, 1968.

1933

The editor and publisher of “The Gray
Street” and five affiliated publications in
the pharmaceutical and research fields is
WALLACE WersLe. The “Gray Street” is
an independently owned publication for
physicians summarizing government
activities in medical research. Mr. Werble
was formerly with the press services in
the general news field. He is president of
the Children’s Hospital of the District
of Columbia, a member of the board of
the National Health Council, and served
a term on the board of the National
Association for Mental Health.

M. HoGe CriGutTon, JR., of Surrey, Eng-
land, is assisting in the arranging for a
performance Bond on the Tarbela Dam
in Parkistan. The dam is one of the
largest projects ever attempted and _ is
estimated at a cost of one billion dollars.

Dr. WittiAM Topp DEVAN is_ president
of the Central Pennsylvania Chapter of
the American College of Surgeons. The
family lives in Hanover, Pa.

rs)
o

 

After a 25-year banking career, WILLIAM
S. FARMER was elected president of the
Louisville Trust Co. JouN H. HArpDwiIck,
"31, is chairman and _ chief executive
officer. Farmer and Hardwick were room-
mates at Washington and Lee. Starting
with Louisville Trust in 1942 Farmer
worked his way up to assistant treasurer
before joining the Navy in World War
Il. He saw combat duty in the Pacific.
He returned to the bank after his Navy
service but later left to become president
of the Kingsport National Bank in Kings-
port, Tenn., and then to Montgomery,
Ala., where he became senior vice presi-
dent of the First National Bank. Farmer
returned to Louisville in 1963 as_ vice
president.

1934

WaLpo G. MILEs, attorney at law in
Bristol, Va., is presently a member of
the State Board of Education and of the
Board of Visitors of Virginia Polytechnic
Institute.

1935

Previously on the staff of Boy Scout
Council in Newark, N. J., JAMES M.
FRANKLIN has recently been promoted to
District Scout Executive of the Seashore
District of the Atlantic Area Council.
The district comprises five communities
including Atlantic City. 7

Cot. HArvARD P. SMITH is retired and
busily engaged in raising black angus
cattle in Madison, S. D.

1936

Hucu J. Bontno has recently been made
vice-president in charge of operations of
Metro-Atlantic, Inc., Greenville, S.C., a
manufacturer of chemicals and colors for
the textile industry.

30

ROBERT MILLER BrRowN is purchasing
agent, Process Materials, for the United
States Steel Corp. in Pittsburgh, Penn.

KENNETH P. LANE is now general man-
ager of the box division of T. R. Miller
Mill Co. in Brewton, Ala.

STUART ‘T. MILLER is works production
manager for Western Electric Co. in
Kearny, N. J.

1937

E. GORDON RAWLS received his Chartered
Life Underwriter designation (CLU) in
September, 1967.

WILLIAM H. DANIEL of Tulsa has _ re-
cently been elected to the board of
directors of the College of the Ozarks
in Clarksville, Ark.

WILLIAM HEATH ALLEN is regional real
estate agent for ‘Texaco, Inc., and a mem-
ber of the Georgia Bar Association. He
lives in East Point, Ga., where he is a
certified property manager.

WILLIAM C. WILBUR, JR., has just re-
turned from six months sabbatical leave
spent in Cambridge, England.

PARK ROUSE, JR., is author of the book,
“Virginia, The English Heritage in
America,” which was chosen by USIA as
one of the 50 books for the Frankfort
International Book Fair.

1938

The Medical Director for Mutual of
New York Insurance Co., Dr. ALBERT A.
POLLACK is also assistant professor of
medicine at New York Medical School.

VERNON ‘T. STRICKLER, JR., served as
1966 and 1967 general chairman of the
Peninsula (Newport News and Hampton)

Y.M.C.A. annual Enrollment Campaign
with record enrollment each year. In
October he was elected to the Board
of Deacons of the First Baptist Church
in Newport News.

1939

The executive vice-president of the
American National Bank of South
Pasenda, Fla., is HERBERT G. SIGVARTSEN.
‘The Sigvartsens live in Dunedin, Fla.

Ropert S. Hoyt has been elected regent
for New Jersey to the Council of Regents,
American College of Hospital Adminis-
trators.

WALLER C. HArpy, JR., is co-manager of
Kay, Richards and Co. of Parkersburg,
W. Va. Cecil is also chairman of Board
of Deacons of Westminster Presbyterian
Church and treasurer of Wood County
Tuberculosis League.

ROBERT W. SpessarD, defeated for re-
election to the Virginia House of Dele-
gates, succeeded Ross Walker of Rich-
mond, Va., as a member of the State
Water Control Board on fan. 1, 10968.
Gov. Mills Godwin named Spessard for
the unexpired term ending June, 1969.

1940

STANFORD SCHEWEL is practicing law with
the firm of Elias, Schewel & Schwartz in
New York City.

Celebrating their 25th wedding anni-
versary, C. R. DIsHAROON and his wife
took a trip to Hawaii. The family lives

in Lafayette, Calif.
1941

In November, 1967, GrorckE W. FAtson
joined Proctor and Schwartz, Inc., as

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

S. ALLAN MCALLISTER, "45

southern district manager. The firm sells
drying machinery to the chemical and
food industry.

In addition to being general manager and
a director of the Smith’s Transfer and
Storage Co. in Washington, ArTHUR C.
SMITH counts as extra activities being a
director of the American Capital Life
Insurance Co. and _ treasurer of the
Montgomery Federal Savings and Loan
Association,

1942

James S. Hitt is currently director of
the General Building and Savings and
Loan Association in Covington, Ky. He
is vice president of Kenton County Boys
Club and Treasurer of the Covington
YMCA.

In August, 1967, DANreEL C. Lewis was
elected president of the Chesapeake Bay
Plywood Corp., a company jointly owned
by U. S. Plywood Corp. and the Chesa-
peake Corp. of Virginia. Also, Dan was
elected as a_ trustee of Williamsburg
Community Hospital.

1943

MARRIED: Burr Epwarp GIFFEN and
Evelyn Virginia Bolin were married at
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints and are living at 4-1 Hendly
Homes in Columbia, S.C. Burr majored
in Journalism at Washington and Lee,
served as a photographic laboratory
technician with the U. S. Army Air
Corps, and is presently employed as a
pressman at the McDonald Letter Shop
in Columbia.

Recently Joseru E. Lee has been made
first vice president of the Chemical Spec-
ialties Manufacturers Association, a group
of over 500 member companies.

WINTER 1968

H. Pore MINISTER, JR., °49

Busily engaged in the practice of cardi-
ology and internal medicine, Dr. CHARLES
L. Rast, JR., is also consultant in cardi-
ology to the Veterans Administration and
Chief of Medicine at Morind Park Hospi-
tal.

1944

HARRISON B. Kinney is with IBM in
New York. Among his duties, he is speech
writing for top executives.

1945

A chemist for the past 16 years for
duPont Co., Dr. S. ALLAN MCALLISTER
will leave the world of industry for one
of education. His new position is chemistry
professor at Gordon College, a Presby-
terian affiliate of the University of Punjab.
He and his wife and four children will
establish their home in Rawlpindi, Paki-
stan. Dr. McAllister explains that his
decision to change professions, and,
temporarily, countries, came about rather
suddenly. In Pakistan Dr. McAllister will
have the opportunity to combine church
work with teaching, to show his family
something more of the world, and the
opportunity for the family to run a
small head-start program on their own.
The McAllisters will be an integral part
of the university life. Only four per cent
are Christians among the 2,000 students
at the University. He will be one of
only four American professors.

A practicing lawyer in Jacksonville, Fla.,
Davin W. Foerster has recently been in-
volved in the planning of the Episcopal
High School of Jacksonville which be-
gan operation in September, 1967, with
250 students.

1946

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THomas C. LER,

 

Pittire M, LANIER, ‘50

a daughter, Virginia Gannaway, on Oct.
2, 1967. The couple now has three daugh-
ters and two sons.

BARTON P. QUAINTANCE has recently trans-
ferred from Seaford Delaware plant of
duPont to the Chattanooga, Tenn., plant
as industrial relations supervisor.

1949

MARRIED; Youn Forester TAYLoR and
Miss Gilliam Whybrew were married Dec.
8, 1967, in Charlottesville, Va.

Election of H. THORP MINISTER, JR., as
a director has been announced by First
Federal Savings and Loan Association of
Columbus, Ohio. Minister is a partner
in the McElroy-Minister Co., an insur-
ance firm. He is vice-president of the
National Association of Casualty and
Surety Agents, vice-president of the board
of trustees of Columbus School for Girls,
member of the transportation committee
of the Downtown Area Committee and
president of Columbus Country Club.

1950

R. DABNEY CHAPMAN is now deputy chief,
European division, of the Voice of
America in Washington, D.C. Dabney
was declared persona non grata by Russia
in September, 1967.

The appointment of Puitip M. LANIER
as assistant vice-president has been an-
nounced by the Louisville & Nashville
Railroad. Mr. Lanier joined the L&N in
1955 as an attorney at Louisville. He has
been general solicitor for the company
since 1960.

The consulting firm for economic and
planning studies in the downtown re-
newal project conducted by Wilmington,

a1

 

 

 

page.

collegiate Athletics.

 

In compliance with Article 9 of the By-Laws
of Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., the names
and pictures of the Nominating Committee for
the 1968-69 year are published on the opposite

Under the By-Laws, any member of the
Alumni Association may submit names of alumni
to fill vacancies on the Alumni Board of Direc-
tors and on the University Committee on Inter-

‘The vacancies—three on the Board of Di-

Name Your Candidate

rectors and one on the Committee of Intercol-
legiate Athletics—will be filled at the April 27,
1968, meeting of the Alumni Association. Mem-
bers are requested to submit nominations as soon

as possible. The Nominating Committee will

close its report on April 19.

Retiring from the Board of Directors are
Francis W. Plowman, ’24; James W. Priest, ’43,
and Thomas C. Frost, Jr., 50. Retiring from

the Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics is

POW. Feynes, Jr., 52.

 

Del., is Wise-Gladstone & Associate. A
partner-in-charge of the planning team
is GORDON KENNEDY, JR. Gordon earned
his masters in economics from the Uni-
versity of Delaware where he has lectured.
He was formerly a research director of
the Metropolitan Washington (D.C.)
Board of ‘Trade, a consultant with Booz,
Allan & Hamilton, and has been with
Wise-Gladstone for four years.

In August, 1967, JAMES Q. AGNEW was
elected president of the Delta Leasing
Company in Richmond, Va.

1951

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. THomMaAs A. WASH,
a daughter, Molly, on July 7, 1967. The
family lives in Newport News, Va., where
Dr. Wash is in the practice of gynecology
and obstetrics.

1952

MARRIED: RANDOLPH GORDON WHITTLE,
Jr., and Lucie Elizabeth Stevens were
married in December, 1967, in Baltimore,
Md. Randy, following his graduation from
Washington and Lee, earned a master’s
degree from Fels Institute of State and
Local Government of the University of
Pennsylvania and is presently assistant
director of the Baltimore Regional Plan-
ning Council.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ‘THOMAS N. HArrIs,
a daughter, Dana Lynn, on Sept. 17, 1967.
Tom is a buyer in the consumer products
division of Allied Radio Corp.

Jor MeENDELSOHN, III, is vice-president
and sales manager of Kenner Products
Co., a leading United States toy manu-
facturer.

THOMAS G. GARDNER is teaching at Flint
Hill Preparatory School, a new school

42

near Fairfax, Va. He lives in Manassas,
Va.

Since 1963 Ropert D. SCHENKEL has been
rector of St. Margarets Church in
Annapolis, Md. He is president of the
Episcopal Clericus of Maryland and of
the Anne Arundel County Council of
Community Service.

Writing two books in the field of Ger-
man, Dr. DONALD D. Hook is under con-
tract with American Book Co. for publica-
tion of one in 1969. He is to have sab-
batical leave from ‘Trinity College this
next year and expects to go to Europe
and the near East.

1953

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HAyrEs C. Mc-
CLERKIN, a daughter, Lauren Hayes, on
Nov. 13, 1967. The McClerkins have two
other daughters and live in Texarkana,
Ark.

Associated with KGBT ‘Television Sta-
tion in Harlingen, Texas, MCHENRy T.
‘TICHENOR is in radio and television man-
agement with stations in ‘Texas and
Arizona. He and his wife, Carolyn, have
four children.

C. R. ADAMS, JR., is president of the
West Virginia Oral Surgeons Society. Pete
is also vice-president of the Kanawha
Valley Dental Society. He resides in
Charleston where he is vice-president of
the Men of the Church of the First
Presbyterian Church.

T. KYLE Creson, JRr., M.D. reports that
he is in his seventh year of private prac-
tice. He also teaches at the University of
‘Tennessee, where he has just been made
associate professor. He has two articles
published and working on the third to-
ward his full fellowship in the American

College of Physicians. He is now an
associate fellow.

After 11 years with National Cash Register
Co., FRED E. “PETE”? CARTER has joined
Mutual Federal Savings and Loan in El
Paso, heading up data processing.

Having moved from Richmond, Va., to
Baltimore, Md., Tyson L. JANNEY has
joined the advertising agency of Richard-
son, Myers, and Donofrio as an account
supervisor.

1954

MARRIED: W. ALLEN’ HARRISON and
Sandra Yuette Hervish of Sanford, Fla.,
were married Nov. 4, 1967. Allen has been
working for Esso Chemical Inter-America,
Inc., in Latin America. It was recently
announced that he will become treasurer
of Esso Chemical S. A., a regional affiliate
responsible for Standard Oil Company
(New Jersey) chemical activities in Eu-
rope. He and his wife will live in Kra-
ainem, Belgium, a suburb of Brussels.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH I. VAN
Cott, JR., a third son, David Morrill, on
Nov. 5, 1967.

Davin Drum, after receiving his M.D.
from Harvard and his Ph.D. in_ bio-
chemistry from M.I.T. is presently doing
medical residency at Peter Bent Brigham
Hospital in Boston, Mass.

Still with American Airlines at Washing-
ton’s National Airport, SEpGwick L. Moss
has been selected for a position with the
rate and traffic department. In his off-
hours, Sedge continues his hobby in
philatelics and is now serving as _ presi-
dent of the Northern Virginia Stamp
Club.

FRED LACKMANN is teaching in high school
in Bellevue, Wash., a suburb of Seattle.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

PAuL E. SANDERS, "43
International General Electric
26 Midchester Avenue
White Plains, N. Y. 10606

J. VAUGHAN BEALE, '39, Chairman

Attorney alt Law
P.O. Box 307
Franklin, Va. 23851

WittiAM H. Leepy, "49
Attorney at Law
814 Westover Road
Kansas City, Mo. 64113

 

 

His courses are mainly journalism and
foreign languages. He and his wife have
two children.

THomas J. Kenny reports that he de-
livered a paper to the Pan American
Congress on Neurology in San Juan. The
subject of his paper was “Treatment of
Behavior Disorders in Children.”

The Massachusetts Life Insurance Co. an-
nounced that Haswett M. FRANKLIN of
the Baltimore agency has set an all-time
production record for the agency.

With the position of Manager-Minerals
Division, ALBerr J. Perry is with the
Superior Oil Co. His work is supervising
non-petroleum exploration and develop-
ment in the continental U.S.A.

Associated with the Grey Advertising,
Inc., of New York since 1965, SELDEN B.
CARTER has been recently named a_ vice-
president. Prior to Grey, Carter served
with Vick Chemical as a new products
manager.

Greorce H. Greer has just been elected
as a Republican Representative to the
Kentucky General Assembly.

1955

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. J. SLADE CARTER,
Jr., a son, John Slade Carter, III, on
Sept. 3, 1967. Slade is with the Phila-
delphia National Bank.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND D. SMITH,
a daughter, Rebecca Ashworth Smith, on
Oct. 15, 1967.

Elected vice-president and secretary of
Muncie Gear Works, Inc., is WiLey W.
SPURGEON, JR. Wiley also reports that
he is chairman of the 1968 Muncie
Charity Horse Show, Indiana’s largest.

WINTER 1968

Jupson H. RopMAn has been elected
Oriental Guide of Khedive at the Shrine
Temple in Norfolk. This honor could
lead to his becoming Potentate of Khedive
in the future.

Joun F. Davis is presently at Stoddard
Flight Center in Washington, D.C., where
he is senior engineer on the power sys-
tems for Nimbus and other space crafts.

FRANK G. GIBSON, JR., now lives in East
Orange, N. J., where he has accepted an
appointment as Urban Coordinator, Pres-
bytery of Newark, N. J.

Now practicing ophthalmology in Wash-
ington, D. C., Dr. RONNIE R. Ray spent
last year in Jordan where he was director
of the International Eye Bank.

As president of the Stag Shop, Inc., a
men’s wear retail group, HARRY S. SHEN-
pow has stores in Manassas, Springfield,
Alexandria, and Arlington, Va.

Scorr LAURENT has been named Louisiana
District Exploration Manager for Union
Texas Petroleum.

Scotr CLiInton works for RCA in Clark,
N. J. He and his family live in Martins-
ville, N.J., where he is treasurer for
the Community Center.

1956

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. A, MICHAEL APPLE-
FELD, a daughter, Catherine Elizabeth
Applefeld, on March 31, 1967. Mike is
employed as an executive in the City
Finance Co. in Baltimore.

The State Junior Chamber of Commerce
has named R. Gorpnon Goocu one of the
five Outstanding Young Texans for 1967.
Gordon served as clerk for Chief Justice
Earl Warren and later joined the Houston
law firm of Baker, Botts, Shepherd and

Coates. Of particular significance has
been Gordon's successful effort to initiate
a far-reaching indigent defender pro-
gram. He was instrumental in getting a
Ford Foundation grant for this program.
The Jaycee citation praised Gooch for
having “demonstrated the ultimate use
of his intelligence and abilities in the
practice of law...and contributing im-
measurably to the improvement of the
legal profession.”

JAmes W. Marvin, Jr., is president of
the Junior Chamber of Commerce in
Philadelphia, Penn. The Chamber has
been advocating improved medical facili-
ties at the Philadelphia International Air-
port. In this connection, Jim recently
appeared on a major television channel.

CuHartes C. WATSON has been appointed
director of studies at the Hill School in
Pottstown, Pa.

In his second year at the University of
Virginia WittiAM H. Fisupack is di-
rector of Information Service. For 10 years
prior to going to Charlottesville, he was
assistant state editor for the Richmond
Times-Dispatch.

1957

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. Fox, JR.,
a son, Thomas Edward Peery, on July 20,
1967, in Washington, D.C.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Georce S. GEE,
a son, Douglas Sidney, on Aug. 30, 1967.
George is a real estate broker with a
Dallas, Texas, firm.

Recently promoted, SAM Benpueim, III,
is now vice-president of Neighborhood
Theater, Inc., and subsidiary companies.
He was also named to the Board of
Directors of Shirlington Amusement
Corporation.

33

 

 

Recently H. GreiG CUMMINGS, JR., has
been made head of Mason & Company's
Washington, D.C., operations. This is a
New York Stock Exchange firm.

Having received his Ph.D. in Psychology
in 1966, ALEX PLATT is associate dean of
Columbia College, Columbia University,
in New York. Their children are Alex,
Jr., age 5, and Corinne, age 2.

After finishing residency training at Wal-
ter Reed Hospital, ALFRED J. MAGOLINE,
Jr., is now Chief of the ear, nose and
throat department at the Womack Army
Hospital at Ft. Bragg in North Carolina.

Recently appointed to the position of
Director of American Studies Program at
Mary Washington College, Jorn H. BERN-
STEIN plans to conduct a special summer
class on the American Indian for Mary
Washington students. The course will be
taught on location in New Mexico and
Arizona.

1958

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THoMAS C, FRIED-
MAN, a son, Joshua Campen, on Sept.
12, 1967.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RicHarp A. Davis,
a son, James William Davis, II, on July
28, 1967.

Announcement was recently made by
the Society National Bank of Cleveland
of the election of WILLIAM M. FRANCE
as vice-president. France has been an
assistant vice-president in the  bank’s
commercial banking department for the
past two years and for six years prior to
joining that department he was a mem-
ber of the investment department. He is
a member of the Greater Cleveland
Growth Association, the Cleveland So-
ciety of Security Analysts, the Bond Club,

34

the Business Economists Club, the Union
Club, and many other civic organizations.

WILFRED Monr, JRr., has become a gen-
eral partner of Howard, Weil, Labouisse,
Friedricks and Co. in New Orleans, an
investment securities firm. A native of New
Orleans, Mr. Kullman is a member of
feta Beta Tau fraternity and is vice-
president of the Temple Sinai Brother-
hood. His appointment to his new posi-
tion was effective Feb. 1.

1959

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THomas§ H.
BRoAbus, JR., a son, Thomas H. Broadus,
Ill, on Nov. 15, 1967. The family lives
in Baltimore, Md.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WALTER MATTHEWS,
a daughter, Carolyn Brane, Nov. 25, 1967.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Antony J. FRANK,
a son, Anthony Jon Frank, Jr., on Dec.
1, 1967. The family lives in Richmond,
Va.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THomas B. BRYANT,
III, a son, Thomas B., IV, on Nov. 29,
1967.

WILLIAM) §S. HArRIson has begun the
practice of dentistry in Edgewater, Md.
He lives in Annapolis.

Joining the investment banking firm of
Woodland & Co. in November, THOMAs
R. GOweNLock, III, is also chairman of
the exceutive committee of the First Di-
vision War Memorial Association. He is
also a director of Phos-cine Products of
New York.

Now assistant treasurer for the Union
‘Trust Co. in Baltimore, Md., Roperr B.
Levy plans to attend the Rutgers Gradu-
ate School of Banking during the sum-

 

WILLIAM M. FRANCE, '58

mer of 1968.

In the summer of 1967 JOHN H. Esperian
travelled to the USSR. He is presently
the Dean of Students at St. John’s School
in Santurce, Puerto Rico.

J. R. C. SrTepHens is manager of the
Lexington, Ky., agency for Mutual of
New York Insurance Co. Recently his
agency was awarded the “President’s
Award” for outstanding sales achievements
during the company’s fall sales campaign.

Dr. ARTHUR GROVE, JR., is attending Har-
vard Law School and expects to graduate
in 1969. He is also doing private medical
practice part-time and is a consultant at
Boston State Hospital.

1960

MARRIED: J. WALTER WEINGART and
the former Katherine Howell were mar-
ried in August in Ames, Iowa. Walter
teaches history at Whitman College,
Walla Walla, Wash.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Rospert A. Bron,
twin sons, Elliott Randall and Bradley
Scott, on Oct. 25, 1967. Bob is working
for Proctor and Gamble Co. in Cincinnati
in the capacity of manager of the bottles
packing department.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs I, GREENE,
a daughter, Elizabeth Ann, on June 26,
1967. The family lives in Chagrin Falls,
Ohio.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Curtis GRINNELL,
a daughter, Kimberly Ann, on March
31, 1967.

Presently H. GERALD SuHiIeLps is dean
and director of admissions at Asheville
School in Asheville, North Carolina. He
expects to do graduate work at Harvard
beginning in February, 1968, and will

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

return to Asheville School in Sept., 1968.

While attending law school at night at
the University of Connecticut, CHARLEs
S. CHAMBERLIN is employed in the
mortgage loan department of Aetna Life
Insurance Company in Hartford, Conn.

Epwarp F. Goop is a U. S. Navy flight
surgeon stationed at Beaufort, S.C.

Howarp C. WOLF, JR., was recently pro-
moted to product development manager
of the Institutional and Industrial Di-
visions of McCormick and Co., Inc., in
Baltimore, Md.

Currently an American Cancer Society
Fellow in St. Louis, MAx L. ELLIoTT is
studying surgical pathology at Washing-
ton University’s School of Medicine.

1961

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Ropert K. PARK,
II, a daughter, Katherine Christine Park,
on Dec. 6, 1967. She joins a sister, and
the family lives in Ravenswood, W. Va.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JON C. PETERSON,
a daughter, Karen Noel Peterson, on Dec.
28, 1967. She joins a brother and a sister,
and the family lives in Virginia Beach,
Va. Jon is president of Colonial Outdoor
Advertising Co. in Norfolk and has an
interest in radio station WABR_ in
Orlando, Fla.

Practicing with the Hartford, Conn., firm
of Gilman and Marks, BERKLEY Cox, JR.,
is acting as corporation counsel for the
city in the area of redevelopment and
urban renewal. He and ‘this wife have
two children.

In August ROBERT FUNKHOUSER, JR., was
promoted to vice-president of Sales, Victor

WINTER 1968

Products Corporation, in Hagerstown,
Md. Victor manufactures commercial re-
frigeration equipment and_ dispensing
equipment.

REGINALD M. SMITH, JR., has recently been
named merchandise manager for acetate
and rayon fabrics for Deering-Milliken
in New York City. The family lives in
Cresskill, N. J.

Epson B. Ops is the data _ processing
manager for the building supply firm,
Johnson & Wimsatt, of Springfield, Va.

1962

MARRIED: G. 'T. DuNLop ECKER and
Carolyn C. Smith were married June 24,
1967, in the Washington National Ca-
thedral. Dunlop is assistant administrator
of the Washington Hospital Center. Car-
olyn teaches fifth grade.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ERNEsT F. LApp, III,
a son, Ernest IV, on Nov. 11, 1967. Ernest
is assistant secretary of Southern In-
dustries Corporation in Mobile, Ala. He
also serves as a trustee on the Junior
Board of University Military School.

Carr. JAMEs K. HITcH is serving as trans-
portation advisor to the Army of Vietnam,
5th Area Logistical Command in Ma
Trang, Vietnam.

Capt. WESLEY OSTERGREN is port opera-
tion officer at Inchon, Korea. He expects
to return to the States in June, 1968.

Currently on active duty as a lieutenant
in the Army Ordnance Corps, EDWARD A.
Brown is doing research at Harry Dia-
mond Laboratories.

RALPH L. ELtAs, JR., is working for Time
Magazine in marketing services.

Jerry H. Hyarr returned from Vietnam
in September, 1967, after serving 13
months as a captain in the Army, com-
manding the 12th Cavalry of the First
Cavalry Division. He was awarded the
Bronze Star with “V” device for heroism,
the Bronze Star for meritorious service,
the Army Commendation Medal with
“Vv” device for heroism and the Air
Medal for making over 25 combat as-
saults into enemy territory. Jerry is now
a member of the Maryland bar and _ is
associated with the law firm of Linowes
and Blocher in Silver Spring, Md.

In a brief pause during his Ph.D. work
at the University of Miami, ELuiotr C.
L. MAYNARD is presently teaching biology
at Adelphi University in Garden City,
L.i. He writes that he finds the - re-
versal from student to teacher a fascinat-
ing and rewarding experience.

JAmes C. AMBLER, JR., has been associated
with the Virginia Landmark Corp. in
Richmond since his discharge from the
Navy in 1965.

1963

MARRIED: In September, 1967, JOHN
N. GULICcK, JR., was released from active
duty with the U. S. Navy’s SEAL TEAM
ONE. He began study at Case Western
Reserve School of Law and on Dec. 9g,
1967, he was married to Mrs. Michael
Ann ‘Terral Wilson. The couple is now
living in Shaker Heights, Ohio.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HERBERT G.
JAHNCKE, JR., a son, Herbert G. Jahncke,
III, on Dec. 1, 1967. ‘The new son joins
an older sister. Herb, Jr., received his
MBA from Stanford University in June,
1967. The family now lives in New
Orleans, La.

aD

 

 

 

 

 

 

CLAYTON Eprs WILLIAMS, retired dean of the
Washington and Lee School of Law, died on
March 25 at the age of 77. He had been a profes-
sor at the University for 49 years and was law
dean from 1944 until his retirement in 1960. But
he continued to teach as a distinguished lecturer
in law until a few weeks before his death.

President Robert E. R. Huntley, a former
law student of Williams, said the loss of the
former dean would be “deeply felt” and added:

CLAYTON EPES WILLIAMS

“A deeply felt loss”

“He was, above all, a truly great teacher. His
memorial is a permanent one in the hearts and
minds of his students.”

Dean Williams received his law degree from
Washington and Lee in 1912. He joined the fac-
ulty in 1919 as associate professor of law, he was
promoted to full professor in 1920, to acting dean
in 1944, and to dean in 1946. A memorial service
was held for him in Lee Chapel on March 26. He
was buried in Woodstock, Virginia.

 

 

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Roperr R. CAmp-
BELL, a daughter, Laura, on May 4g,
1967. Bob is now doing a residency in
radiology at the University of Cincinnati.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. R. MEADE CHRIS-
TIAN, JR., a daughter, Anne Catherine,
on Nov. 9, 1967.

FRANK QO. EVANS, Jr., will begin his
residency in obstetrics and gynecology at
Henry Grady Memorial Hospital in At-
lanta, Ga.

After another year as surgery resident at
the Medical College of Virginia, MICHAEL
D. SussMAN will attend the gerontology
branch of the National Institute for
Child Health and Human Development.
He then expects to complete his train-
ing in orthopedic surgery.

STEPHEN GUILD is coordinating the train-
ing programs for Africa and the Carib-
bean for the Peace Corps.

Presently in Saigon, CAPTAIN ALLEN H.
JOHNSTON is operations officer for the
Seventh Air Force Headquarters Am-
munition Control point.

Rosert L. WHEELOCK, III, and Miss
Shirley Anne Cammack were married Dec.
13, 1967, in Amarillo, Texas.

After having completed two years of
service with the Army in Germany,
SHERWOOD WISE, JR., is now at the Uni-
versity of Illinois on a fellowship in
geology. Woody is working toward his
Ph.D. His wife, Cindy, holds a fellow-
ship in special education and is working
towards her master’s degree.

Having completed his Ph. D. oral ex-
aminations, EDWIN P. GARRETSON, JR.,
is now teaching European history at
Washburn University. He and Miss Kathy

36

Jane Chanbery were married in Jan., 1967.

THOMAS ‘T. Moore, JR., is associated
with the North Carolina National Bank
in Charlotte, N.C., as a programmer and
systems analyst.

1964

MARRIED: 8S. GWATHMEY ‘TYLER, III, and
‘Miss Variner Jefferson Davis Marret were
married in April, 1967. Gwathmey is en-
gaged in sales with Owens-Corning Fiber-
glass.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. BARRy A. GREENE,
a son, Cary Mitchell, on Aug. 30, 1967.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD MYER
SHAPIRO, a daughter, Lauren Beth, in
Sept., 1967. Bernard is presently an at-
torney on the staff of the Joint Com-
mittee on Internal Revenue Taxation in
the United States Congress.

WILLIAM S. SOLMSON is practicing law
with the firm of Canada, Russell &
Turner in Memphis.

After having completed his M.B.A. at
Wharton, JOHN DUNCAN is currently with
Standard and Poor’s Directory in New
York as computer liaison to the invest-
ment counseling department.

While serving with the U. S. Army in
Hawaii, WILLIAM B. OGILVIE is teaching
computer science at the University of
Hawaii.

After graduating from Tulane with an
L.L.B. degree, PHiLip R. FARNSWORTH, JR.,
is presently seeking his LL.M. degree in
corporate law from New York University.

After receiving a master’s degree in city
planning from Ohio State University,
NATHANIEL M. GRIFFIN is presently work-
ing with Harland Bartholomew  As-

sociates in St. Louis, Mo., as an urban
planner.

After three years in the Army where
his last assignment was with Command
Judge Advocate, U. S. Army Support
Command, Cam Ranh Bay, CHARLES B.
ROWE is practicing law with the firm
of Pulley and Pulley in Courtland, Va.

Having graduated from the University of
Virginia School of Medicine, KENNETH
E. GREER is now doing his internship at
Strong Memorial Hospital at the Uni-
versity of Rochester.

GIANCARLO MARCHETTI, a special student
in 1963-64, has recently completed his law
degree and has begun practicing law in
Italy. At the same time, Giancarlo has
been made Assistant Professor of Political
Economy at the University of Rome.

In his third year of graduate study for
the Ph.D. degree is JOHN H. KIRKLEY.
John and his wife,; Dorothy Yates of At-
lanta, have a year old son. Dorothy’s
brother Charles is a sophomore at Wash-
ington and Lee this year.

Carr. WyAttr B. Durrett, JR., of Vienna,
Va., is on duty at Udorn Royal Thai Air
Force Base in ‘Thailand. He is a judge
advocate. Before going to Thailand, he was
stationed at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif.
He attended Johns Hopkins University
after receiving his law degree at Wash-
ington and Lee. He holds an M.A. de-
gree in political science from Johns
Hopkins. His wife is the former Cheryn
Coller of Deerfield, I.

1965

MARRIED: WILLIAM STEWART ATWELL
and Pamela Olivier were married Oct.
21, 1967. ‘Ihe new couple are at home in
Honolulu, Hawaii.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

L. SHANNON JUNG, '65

MARRIED; DAvip STERLING KILLEBREW
and Elinore Irwin Dewart were married
Dec. 2, 1967, in Greenwich, Conn. Kille-
brew is sales manager with Abisol
Products Co. of Stamford, Conn.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. E. Morcan KELLy,
Jx., a daughter, Erin Evelyn, on April 7,
1967. Morgan has received his master’s
degree in German literature.

MAx L. SHAPIRA received his M.B.A. from
Harvard Business School in June, 1967;
he is now associated with Morgan-Guar-
anty Trust Co.

In his third year of teaching, PeTer H.
ALFoRD is at Berkshire School in Sheffield,
Mass. In addition to teaching French, he
is coaching and working in the ad-
missions department. Peter is also work-
ing on a master’s degree at Syracuse
University.

After finishing graduate school in June,
1967, WILLIAM S. Davin joined the Marine
Corps and has recently been commis-
sioned a second lieutenant. He is stationed
at Quantico, Va.

In his third year at Cornell Law School,
RICHARD KNEIPPER is a member of the
Moot Court Team, a position he has held
for each of his three years. While at
Washington and Lee, Rick was co-captain
of the debate team which won in David-
son College Tournament in 1963.

After finishing Marine Corps duty,
STEPHEN T. HisBArp is in a training pro-
gram with Hornblower and Weeks-Hemp-
hill, Noyes, the brokerage firm.

Completing his thesis in August, 1967,
PETER J. STERLING, JR., received his M.A.
degree in journalism from the University

WINTER 1968

of Georgia. He is now employed as an
account executive with Englemore Ad-
vertising, Inc., in New York City.

Having recently been admitted to the
Georgia Bar, WILLIAM F. C. SKINNER, JR.,
expects to graduate from Emory Uni-
versity Law School in March, 1968.

I. CURTIS JERNIGAN has taken leave from
his studies for a Ph.D. degree at Indiana
University to work as a staff economist
with the Antitrust Division of the Justice
Department in Washington, D. C.

After receiving his master’s degree in ro-
mance languages, Woopy RUTTER is teach-
ing French and Spanish at Salisbury
School in Salisbury, Conn. He is also on
the admissions committee for the school.

L. SHANNON JUNG, a senior at Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va.,
has been elected by the faculty to re-
ceive a fellowship for further graduate
study. He is treasurer of the seminary stu-
dent body. He is married to the former
Jennifer Nagle of Huntington, W. Va.

1966

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JosepH L. DeEn-
NISON, JR., a daughter, Cassandra, on
June 26, 1967. Joe is a management
trainee at Central National Bank in
Richmond and is also working toward a
master’s degree in commerce at the Uni-
versity of Richmond.

BORN: Capt. and Mrs. Rupotpn BuM-
GARDNER, III, a son, Rudolph, IV, on
Dec. 29, 1967. Rudolph is stationed with
Headquarters of the U. S. Armed Forces
in Europe at Heidelberg, Germany.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Bruce W. RIpER,

a son, James Warwick Rider, on Jan. 1,
1968. While Bruce is in the service, Mrs.
Rider and son make their home in Mary
Esther, Fla.

M. Neety Younc and his wife, the former
Martha Moll, are living in Atlanta, Ga.,
where Neely is teaching history and eco-
nomics at the Lovett School. Martha is
employed as assistant to the curator at
the High Museum of Art.

Presently serving aboard the U. S. S. New-
port News, a heavy cruiser, Ensicn D.
J. MATHEWsoN is serving in the Gulf
of Tonkin. The ship is participating in
Operation Sea Dragon off the North
Vietnamese Coast.

Davip N. MARCHESE is in account man-
agement at Ogilvy & Mather, Inc., an
advertising agency in New York City.

1967

MARRIED: Roserr Ostrorr and Louise
Chase Pugh were married Sept. 20, 1967.
Bob is attending medical school at the
University of Maryland.

Joun S. Granuam, III, is doing graduate
work at St. Salvator’s College in St.
Andrews, Fife, Scotland. He writes that
over the Christmas vacation he visited
Jan Laankan in Norway, and the Wash-
ington and Lee Swing was sung on the
streets of Oslo at midnight on New
Year's Eve.

Recently WILLIAM R. REYNOLDs has been
made assistant Commonwealth Attorney
for Henry County, Va., and has formed,
with Commonwealth Attorney Kenneth
Covington, the law firm of Covington
and Reynolds.

37

 

 

In

Memoriam

 

1904

ALEx V. ALLAIN died June 4, 1967, in
Jeanerette, La.

1908

Epwin H. McGILL, a civil engineer and
former member of the Highway Com-
mission in Fresno, Calif., died in Aug.,
1967. Mr. McGill was a former member
of the American Society of Civil Engi-
neers.

CHARLES LEROY SYRON, a former teacher
of chemistry, died in Monterey, Va., Sept.

25, 1967.
1911

GrorcE K. SCRATCHLEY, a retired rail-
road man, died Sept. 22, 1967. At the
time of his death he was living in Vista,
Calif.

EvereTr B. LEMON, long time resident
and real estate broker in Roanoke, Va.,
died June 24, 1967.

1912

Dr. GEORGE HoLtiApAYy McKEE, Profes-
sor Emeritus of Romance Languages at
Suffolk University in Boston, Mass., died
Dec. 7, 1967. Dr. McKee earned his masters
at the University of Pittsburgh in 1916
and a doctor of letters from the Uni-
versity of Grenoble in France in 1928.
He taught at Georgia Tech, Univer-
sity of Georgia, Cheshire Academy in
Connecticut, the University of Connecticut
and West Virginia Wesleyan University.
He also did graduate work at the Sor-
bonne, Harvard University and the Uni-
versities of Guatemala and Mexico.

JoHN JACKSON KELLY, JR., who during
his 48 years as superintendent of schools
in Wise County, Va., pioneered several
educational programs of statewide im-
portance, died Nov. 22, 1967, in Wise,
Va. At the time of his retirement in
1963, Dr. Kelly had been in office longer

38

than any other Virginia division school
superintendent.

1913

CHARLES EVANT HUNTER, an attorney in
Roanoke, Va., died Jan. 15, 1968. Except
for service during World War I, Mr.
Hunter had been practicing law in Roa-
noke since 1917. For ten years he held
the office of City Attorney. He was the
senior partner in the law firm of Hunter,
Fox, Trabue & Renick.

1915

JAMES JEFFERSON Casey, former proprietor
of tobacco warehouses and at one time
associated with the Southern Coal Com-
pany in Winston-Salem, N. C., died Nov.

4, 1967.
1918

Ray Hucues Jarvis, a former grain and
feed dealer in Hubbard, Tex., died Sept.
2, 1967.

1919

ARTHUR MELVILLE CROMWELL, retired gen-
eral sales manager for the Consolidated
Machinery and Supply Co., died in Apple
Valley, Calif., Nov. 28, 1967. Mr. Crom-
well, a World War I veteran, had been
living in Apple Valley for some years for
health reasons. In spite of this his in-
terest and devotion was most evident in
steering many young men to Washington
and Lee. While at Washington and Lee
he was a member of the varsity football
and track teams.

Tuomas MITCHELL Pitrs, mayor of
Indianola, Miss., and one of its most
prominent civic leaders, died on May 9,
1967. Mayor Pitts followed the footsteps
of his father with a keen interest in the
local community. He was elected mayor in
1949 and during his tenure of office saw
Indianola show a rapid growth. The
mayor was a Rotarian, a Mason, a mem-
ber of the Law Enforcement Committee
of the National League of Cities, a mem-
ber of the executive committee of the
Mississippi Municipal Association, and
he had served as president of the school
board, a director of the Chamber of
Commerce and an alderman in his church.

1921

ROBERT CORNELIUS Woop, JrR., well known
Lynchburg lawyer and civic leader, died
Jan. 17, 1968. Before establishing his law
practice in Lynchburg in 1927, he traveled
for a number of steel firms. Mr. Wood
was a former president of the Lynchburg
alumni chapter and was associated with
many community affairs.

Puitie KoueEn of Fincastle, Va., died Nov.
27, 1967. He was Commonwealths At-
torney in Botetourt County for 33 years
from 1923 to 1956. Before pursuing the
study of law, he taught school in Botetourt
County. Mr. Kohen was a member of
the Fincastle Presbyterian Church, a life
member of the Shriner’s Crippled Chil-
dren’s Hospital, and a Mason.

1923

Warp C. ELLIOTT, assistant director of
Wheeling, W. Va., Chamber of Commerce
and former director of the Community
Development, died Dec. 4, 1967. During
World War II, Elliott served as assistant
to the Deputy Administrator for Informa-
tion and Advertising of the War Assets
Administration and the War Manpower
Commission in Washington. After the war
he returned to Wheeling as manager of
the Elliott School of Business.

1926

Henry A. AMENT, a resident of Boca
Raton, Fla., died Aug. 21, 1967.

1931

JOHN GRANT FAULKNER, assistant profes-
sor of speech at Delta State College,
Cleveland, Miss., died Nov. 12, 1967. At
the time of his death he was on leave
from Delta State College and was pursu-
ing a doctoral program at the University
of Southern Mississippi. At one time he
worked for the Arkansas State Police
and later was a special agent with the
F.B.1. Afterwards, he was employed by
the Treasury Department in the Bureau
of Narcotics. Realizing a life-time ambi-
tion, he started teaching in 1954. He
served as a teacher and coach for a
number of years at the high school

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

level. He then taught speech at North-
east Junior College before going to Delta
State College.

BENJAMIN LAMPsON Lewis, of Columbus,
Ohio, and Woodland Hills, Calif., died
Oct. 24, 1967. Mr. Lewis was a past state
examiner for the auditor for the state of
Ohio and for many years was with Dun
and Bradstreet as a resident reporter.

1934

GEORGE JEFFERDS STEPHENS, JR., died sud-
denly on July 2, 1967. He made his home
in White Plains, New York.

1936

FRANK HAGUE, JR., son of Jersey City’s
long-time mayor, died Dec. 6, 1967. Mr.
Hague, a judge in the Court of Errors
and Appeals, lived in New York City.

HERBERT RICHARD DIETZ, Who was a mem-
ber of the A. W. Ault & Co. brokerage
firm in Cincinnati, Ohio, died Dec. 10,
1967. For many years Mr. Dietz had been
with the A. Lepper & Co. He was a 32nd
degree Mason.

1945

Roy JOHNSON, JR., a life insurance broker
in Ferguson, Mo., died Nov. 17, 1967. Mr.
Johnson had been honored several times
by the Million Dollar Round Table. He
was very active in Ferguson civic affairs.

1949

Frep ALAN STANLEY, JR., of Pulaski, Va.,
died Nov. 23, 1967. He was president and
chief executive officer of the Pulaski Furni-
ture Corp.

1960

CapraIn JAY WEBSTER STULL, U.S. Marine
Corps, of Riverside, Conn., was killed in
combat action in Vietnam on Febuary 28,
1968. The former lacrosse star and co-
captain of the Generals’ team in 1960
was attached to the 3rd Marine Division.
Jay and his brother, Steve, W&L ‘63, were
midfielders on the undefeated Marine
lacrosse team at Camp Pendleton, Cal. in
addition to his family, Captain Stull is
survived by his wife.

WINTER 1968

 

Chapter

News

 

APPALACHIAN

m= ALUMNI IN LARGE numbers gave an
enthusiastic welcome to the new
Dean of the Law School, Robert
E. R. Huntley. The occasion was a
lovely reception and dinner at the
Bristol Country Club on Dec. 9.
Outgoing president, H. Emory
Widener, Jr. 52, presided over the
festivities. Members from the Tri-
Cities and the surrounding area
heard Dean Huntley give a compre-
hensive report on the University
and especially on the matter of the
election of a new president. (This
was before Dean Huntley was
elected to the presidency.) Among
those attending were John M.
Jones, III, ’37, from Greeneville,
Tenn... (and: a member of tue
Alumni Board of Directors. Mr.
Jones, speaking for the Board of
Directors, urged a closer communi-
cation of all alumni with the Uni-
versity and expressed the desire of
the directors to work closely with
each chapter. Also present was Mr.
Allen Harris, Jr., ’27, of Johnson
City, who was the chapter's repre-
sentative at a special conference
held on campus in October. Mr.
Harris made a brief report on the
conference and announced that
another similar conference would
be held next year. In a short busi-
ness session, the following new
officers were elected: William S.
Todd, ’50, Kingsport, president;

and Lewis Wexler, ’58, Kingsport,
Stephen M. Quillen, 55, Lebanon,
Charles IT. Garten, ’42, Bristol, vice
presidents.

NEW RIVER—GREENBRIER

m@ ON FRIDAY NIGHT, Dec. 1, the New
River-Greenbrier chapter in West
Virginia held a dinner meeting at
Hawks Nest Lodge, a multi-million
dollar West Virginia Parks Com-
mission Hotel. With the pleasant
use of the governor’s suite, several
of the chapter’s alumni met with
Alumni Secretary, Bill Washburn,
and Associate Director of Develop-
ment Farris Hotchkiss. Bill and
Farris were able to give an in-depth
survey of Washington and Lee to-
day, with particular emphasis on
the newly re-established Office of
University Development. A_pleas-
ant dinner was held after the meet-
ing in the dining room overlooking
the Kanawha River.

NORFOLK

= ON TUFSDAY EVENING, Nov. 28,
the chapter held a meeting at the
Lake Wright Motel. The meeting
was well attended by approximately
4o alumni who gathered for din-
ner. Bill Washburn, Frank Parsons,
and Farris Hotchkiss attended the
meeting from the University. Bull
addressed the alumni on some of
the recent developments at Wash-
ington and Lee and then turned
the meeting over to Frank and
Farris. The Office of University De-
velopment, under the direction of
Frank Parsons, was described in de-
tail by him and some of the impli-
cations in Washington and Lee's
financial future were set forth.
Farris, the Associate Director of the
Development Office, described the
method of conducting the 1967-68
alumni fund with particular em-
phasis on the special Virginia cam-
paign. The formal remarks were
followed by a lively session of ques-
tions and answers.

39

iam
NU WAG

‘* ‘i
A We

 

 

 

' oe Heat |
IM Msi: ERE ES ual

HemiIsFair’s Ge2-foot Tower of the Ameri-

cas will be the tallest observation tower

in the Western Hemisphere. It will accom-

modate as many as 1,750 persons per hour.

A restaurant at the 550-foot level will
seat 312 persons and make one complete
revolution every hour. From the restau-
rant and the observation decks above it,
visitors will be able to see as far as 100
miles,

  
 
   

>>

. a -
>

  

Re

oT

££
>. ’ .
Ns = 2

‘y

Washington and Lee Day

HemisF air

San Antonio, Texas

Friday, July 12

=» HemisFair ‘68 is the only
World’s Fair of 1968, and the
first ever held Great
Southwest. [The theme is “The
Confluence of Civilizations in
the Americas.’ At HEMISFAIR
you will find the traditions of
the Old World, the romance of
the Far East, the mystery of Af-
rica—and how they came to-

in the

gether to make the adventure
of the
You will find the great pavil-

American continents.
ions of 30 nations and of as
many industries, exciting ba-
zaars and charming boutiques,
restaurants — all set
among shimmering waterways,

exotic

tree-shaded plazas and elevated
walks, a wonderland of fun just
a few steps from the Alamo and

mer .

~
~.

  
 

 
 

> feet teee

HeMIsFair “68 will be open from April 6 to October 6 and commemorate the 250th an-
niversary of the founding of San Antonio. The fair will cover 92 acres in the heart of
the city and cost about $156 million. One of the major permanent structures will be
the three-building civic center constructed by the City of San Antonio. It will have a
3,000-seat banquet hall, many meeting rooms, a 2,800-seat theater, and a 93,000 square-

foot circular arena.

40

4 : - . A 3
-* < e P -
- a ely > . ~ eve .
’ y = - =, “ cal :
: e.- » . t
. - a : ‘ 1
| ¥ . * . e
as mo (ld
. - .
. —_ —. > ~
- . -
4 3)

the heart of one of America’s

most picturesque cities—San

Antonio.

# Friday, July 12 has been set
aside at HemisFair as Wash-
ington and Lee Day. Univers-
ity President Robert E. R.
Huntley, members of the
Board of ‘Trustees, and other
University officials will be pres-
ent that day. All Washington
and Lee alumni, students, and
their friends are invited to at-
tend the fair on this special
occasion. The climax will be a
banquet in one of HEMIsFAir’s
great convention halls.

» The chief officers of HEMIs-
Fair are Washington and Lee
alumni. Marshall T. Steves,
who attended W&L in 1940-42,
is president; and ‘Thomas C.
Frost, Jr., "50, a member of the
Alumni Board of Directors, is
vice-president.

# A suggestion: Make your
whole visit to HEMIsFair co-
incide with Washington and
Lee Day. Lodging reservations
and information about the fair
and San Antonio may be ob-
tained by writing Visitor Serv-
ices, Inc., P. O. Drawer H, San
Antonio, Texas 78206, or by
calling (512) 226-4292.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Pickax Weather

In the bleak mid-winter
Frosty wind made moan,

Earth stood hard as iron,
Water like a stone;

Snow had fallen, snow on snow,

Snow on snow....

CHRISTINA G. ROSSETTI

Washington and Lee students re-
turned from Christmas vacations to
a campus gripped by ice and snow.
More snow fell; then sleet; then
freezing rain. The whole solidified
into a glassy sheet—a kind of Vir-
ginian permafrost. All of January
and part of February, the ice cap
mocked a meager sun. The campus
echoed the sound of snow plows,
spinning car wheels, the scrape of
shovels, and the chop-chop-chop of
hoes and mattocks. The photograph
at left draws the scene. Never mind
the weather! The University merely
quickened its pace. A new President
was named; classes met; Richard
Nixon came for the ODK Assembly;
Lee's Birthday was celebrated...
examinations ... Fancy Dress...
spring registration. Spring? Why, of
course. “If winter comes....”

 

Richer by One

=» The facade of Washington Hall inspired
the creation of Washington and Lee’s new
symbol (top right). Its interpretation: The
base of the symbol represents a disting-
uished faculty—the foundation of a great
University. When joined at the base, the
columns identify the University — WLU.
The three groups of columns, forming the
initials, symbolize the three divisions of the
University—the College, the School of Com-
merce and Administration, and the School
of Law. They also symbolize the three as-
pects of a liberal arts education—the human-
ities, the social sciences, the natural sciences.
The three corners of the pediment suggest
the basic purposes of the University—to
transmit knowledge, to discover knowledge,
to serve humanity—and the upward thrust
of the pediment symbolizes the University’s
constant striving toward the truth.

 

 

  
   

kee 7
Hh we
aU
Pe a
Bote ie ate |

eee

 

a Thus the University has another graphic
representation which has significance for all
who have walked its campus or studied in
its halls.

s The new symbol will be used in ways
that seem appropriate. It was created to
supplement, not replace, the University’s
other fine symbols—the crest (no college
has a more beautiful or more meaningful
one), the seal (it honors two great Ameri-
cans as well as a great institution), and the
athletic monogram (it is wrapped securely
in tradition).

« Washington and Lee is rich in heritage,
rich in the service it is able to render, rich
in the loyalty of its sons. Now it is richer,
by one, in its symbolism.

“NOLONIXTT

INNN1V

DOSS WI GNV

ANIZVOVW

NOLONTHS VA

OGhHS

NILSAY
bile

€OL8L
XL
LYse1i9

JIWAOIIW V LYVALS YC

