1S

ae se aS
a
Hap RAA ee
Sone a

oe Me S

5
i

:
robe

i
st

SUMMER 1963
illiam

ires, But H
Continues

Ret
Serv

Dean G

1Ce

SHINGTON
AND LEE
ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ey

 

W

cea

 

 

 

THE

ASHINGTON
AND LEE

Editor

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

Managing Editor

FRANK A. PARSONS, 1954

Editorial Associate

Mrs. ROBERT STEWART

THE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President
Joun D. Barrer, JRr., M.D., 1934

Vice-President
Thomas B. BRYANT, JR., 1928

Secretary

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

Treasurer
WILLIAM B. WIsbDOM, 1921

THE BOARD OF ‘TRUSTEES

Joun D. Barrie, JR., M.D., 1934, President
THomas B. BRYANT, JR., 1928
James H. CLARK, 1931

H. ‘TYNDALL DICKINSON, 1939

EK. Stewart EPLEY, 1949

Roperr A. FULWILER, JR., 1925
lHomas W. Mosks, 1939

E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., 1933
C. WitiiAM Pacy, IT, 1950

E. ALTON SARTOR, JR., 1938
WILLIAM B. WISDOM, 1921
SHERWOOD W. WISE, 1932

EDITORIAL BOARD

FRANK J. GILLIAM, 1917
FIrzGERALD FLOURNOY, 1921
PAXTON DAVIS

JAMES W. WHITEHEAD

JoHN D. BATTLE, JR., 1934
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

 

Published quarterly by Alumni, Incor-
porated, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia.

Entered as Second Class Matter at the
Post Office at Lexington, Virginia, Sep-
tember 15, 1924. Printed at the Journalism
Laboratory Press of Washington and Lee
University under the supervision of C.
Harold Lauck.

J. Gilliam, painted by W. W.S. Wilson, which

 

August, 1963
Volume XXXVIII

Number 8

THE COVER: The portrait of Dean Frank

was presented to the University upon
Dean Gilliam’s retirement.

INSIDE COVER: Making the rounds at com-
mencement season was Robert H. Jahncke,
Jr. His father, left, was a 1963 graduate at
M.I.T., but the little fellow was also on
hand for the Washington and Lee gradua-
tion of his uncle, Herbert G. Jahncke, Jr.
Grandfather Herbert G. Jahncke, ’30, plans to
attend another We& L graduation,
say about 1982.

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Dean Gilliam’s Retirement

A Portrait for the University
Reorganization In Admissions
Graduation Activities, 1963

The University Honors Dr. Gaines
August Reopening for Lee Chapel
“Management” of News: An Unsolvable Dilemma
University Host to C. A. C. ‘Tournaments
News of the University
Class Reunions and Law Day Activities

A New Catalogue :

A More Flexible Freshman Year

The Fund Is Over the ‘Top for 1963
The Association’s Annual Meeting

‘The Report of the Secretary
The Report of the Association President
‘The Report of the Treasurer

Class Notes

Chapter News

 

A Lite of Service
Lo His University

After 37 Years As Dean of Students
And Director of Admissions, Dean
Gilliam Is Retiring, But He Will
Continue to Serve Washington and

Lee As an Admissions Consultant

and As an Adviser to the President

 

By A. Prescotr ROWE
Assistant Director of Information
Services

HEN Dean of Admissions Frank

J. Gilliam vacates his office this
summer he’ll probably move two
well-worn leather chairs with him
as reminders of his work with gen-
erations of Washington and Lee
students.

The red leather chairs, worn
smooth by the nervous shiftings of
thousands of students who have
visited with the 68-year-old dean
over the past three decades, are
symbolic of Dean Gilliam’s deep
personal interest in every Wash-
ington and Lee undergraduate and
subsequent alumnus.

Since 1931, nearly every Wash-
ington and Lee man has had at
least two chances to share this in-
terest from the vantage point of
one of those chairs. If a young ap-
plicant to the University did not
visit with Dean Gilliam in his role
as Dean of Admissions, then he
probably got to see him later—for
one reason or another—as Dean of
Students.

No matter when a student stop-
ped by to visit Dean Gilliam, vol-
untarily or otherwise, he always
received a warm welcome, an in-
vitation to be seated, and full at-
tention to his particular problem.

Although Frank J. Gilliam only
officially “‘wore two hats” as Dean
of Students and Director of Ad-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

missions from 1951 to 1962, he has
been at both jobs much longer. He
became Washington and Lee’s first
Dean of Students in 1931, and, as
admissions work grew in scope and
complexity, he assumed responsi-
bility for both jobs. In 1962, at his
own request, he was relieved of his
responsibilities as Dean of Students
in order that he might devote full
attention to Washington and Lee’s
admissions program.

His retirement this summer ac-
tually marks the close of 37 years
as a member of Washington and
Lee’s administration and faculty.
He first came to the University
in 1926 as a member of the English
faculty.

Designated Dean Emeritus by the
University’s Board of ‘Trustees at
its June meeting, Dean Gilliam
will not be retiring in the usual
sense of the word. He will continue
to serve as a consultant to the ad-
missions office and as a special ad-
viser to President Fred C. Cole.

His familiar second floor office
in Washington Hall will be relo-
cated on the first floor. ‘The leather
chairs will be moved too. “The new
location puts him close to the
Alumni Office and will afford him
casy access to the files of his thous-
ands of former students. He can ex-
pect frequent visitors, too, from
among the hundreds of alumni who
drop by in the course of the school
year and summer. He plans to stay
busy in his new role, but the pres-
sure of his former jobs he will leave
behind on the second floor.

Fifty years ago this September,
Dean Gilliam, a native of nearby
Lynchburg, began his virtual life-
long association with Washington
and Lee as an entering freshman.
Since the Fall of 1913, he has
earned B.A. and M.A. degrees,
served in the U.S. Army, organized
a missionary educational system in
the Belgian Congo, taught English
at Augusta Military Academy and
at Washington and Lee, and held
down simultaneously two demand-

SUMMER 1963

ing college administrative posts.
In 1924, he married Louise Fon-
taine Johnson, who continues to
share his interest in Washington
and Lee and who acts as the gra-
hostess at ‘Belfield,’ the
lovely Gilliam home and gardens
a short distance from the campus.

CLOUS

In many ways, Dean Gilliam
personifies the spirit of Washington
and Lee for the majority of its grad-
uates of the past thirty years. Re-
turning alumni seldom fail to in-
quire about Dean Gilliam and most
take time to visit with him. In such
cases, Dean Gilliam’s prodigious
memory makes introductions sel-
dom necessary. Countless students,

as graduation drew close, have stop-
ped by for perhaps less nervous
visits in one of those leather chairs,
to thank Dean Gilliam for what
he has done for them and_ for
Washington and Lee.

Dean Gilliam has stressed the
personal approach in his work with
students, and it has been his metic-
ulous attention to the “little
things” that have meant so much
to students over the many years he
has been dean.

“The fundamental foundation of
whatever effectiveness this job had
was getting to know students as
individuals rather than emphasiz-
ing institutional programs,” Dean
Gilliam reflects.

His personal concern was mani-
fested in many difffferent ways. As
Dean of Students, his door was al-

ways open for student visitors. He
made frequent visits to Lexington’s
hospital to call on confined stu-
dents in order that he might make
direct reports home to their famil-
ies. When grade time came at the
end of the semester, he spent count-
less hours entering hand-written
personal comments on every gerade
sheet before it was mailed to a stu-
dent’s parents. His highest praise:
a heartfelt “Splendid!!!”

As Dean of Admissions, he wel-
comed prospective students with a
warmth that sometimes nearly
overwhelmed them, but a warmth
that underscored his vital interest
in their choice of a college. ‘Thous-

 

ands of letters, in the flawless Eng-
lish for which Dean Gilliam has be-

come so well known to all of his as-
sociates, were mailed to admissions
candidates over the years. Each
always took the most personal ap-
proach possible.

To every undergraduate, Dean
Gilliam’s phenomenal ability to re-
member first names is a significant
example of his dynamic personal
interest in students. Dean Gilliam
admits that the opportunity to re-
view admissions applications gave
him a jump on names.

Just as Dean Gilliam’s warm
friendship has marked the lives of
thousands of his students, his fore-
sight, energy, and capacity for get-
ting things done have led to
achievements that have made dis-
tinctive marks on the University.

He was influential in the plan-
ning that resulted in the opening
of Letitia Pate Evans Dining Hall
four years ago, and in the expan-
sion of the University’s dormitory
facilities to accommodate upper-
classmen, law students, and a slight
increase in the size of the fresh-
man class. He established Wash-
ington and Lee’s pattern of fresh-
man living, whereby new students
are required to reside in the dormi-
tories under the guidance of care-
fully selected upperclass counsel-
lors. He helped promote the for-
mation of the University Publica-
tions Board. He was instrumental
in the development of the fraterni-
ty housemother system.

One of his proudest achievements
is the annual Freshman Camp,
which this September will conduct
its 32nd three-day orientation and
recreation program at Natural
Bridge for new students. Dean Gil-
liam deserves the title of ‘“found-
ing father’ of the camp, for after
he served as a faculty adviser for a
Hi-Y pre-school camp in 1927 and
1928, he saw how a broader appli-
cation of this idea could work for
the benefit of Washington and Lee
and the great majority of freshmen.
The first Freshman Camp opened
in 1928 for a relatively small num-
ber of entering students.

Since that time, the camp has
grown to encompass the entire
freshman class and is considered an
important aid to the adjustments
an incoming student must make.
Dean Gilliam retired as director of
the camp in 1956, but each Sep-
tember he has found the time to
pay a visit to the campsite for at
least one day.

Dean Gilliam was also instru-
mental in setting up the Univer-
sity's important faculty adviser
program, in which each new stu-
dent comes under the direct per-
sonal influence of an experienced
professor who assists the young
man in solving problems both aca-

4

demic and personal. Dean Gilliam

continually sought ways to improve
upon the system, and worked dili-
gently to match freshmen with the
best possible faculty adviser, as
suggested by the student’s appli-
cation information and admissions
Scores.

Much of Dean Gilliam’s work in-
volved him in fraternity relations.
He has served as chairman of the
faculty committee on fraternities,
and he has steadfastly labored to
strengthen the influence of the stu-
dent Interfraternity Council.

In reflecting on the fraternity
situation, Dean Gilliam said:

“Fraternities certainly occupied
a position of great prominence dur-
ing the 1930's, based primarily on
their emphasis on social life. In
recent years the element of serious
purpose in students and their de-
termination to achieve the strong-
est intellectual possibilities of a col-
lege education have been brought
to bear on fraternities. The adap-
tation has presented many prob-
lems. I do feel that fraternities
are attempting to adapt, but I can-
not claim that adaptation has fully
succeeded.”

No man is a stauncher defender
of the time-honored tradition of
student government at Washington
and Lee than Dean Gilliam. He has
been impressed by the consistent
quality of the elected student lead-
ers, and he treasures his associa-
tion with these young men over
the past three decades.

“One of the greatest rewards |
receive is the association with stu-
dent leaders in an entirely advisory
capacity in connection with their
operation of the Honor System.”

Although the University’s Hon-
or System is administered entirely
by student leaders, no one at
Washington and Lee would hesi-
tate to admit that Dean Gilliam
has been the backbone of the cher-
ished system for more than 30
years. |
“One of the things that has

meant most to me is the almost un-
believable way the spirit of the
Honor System has characterized the
lives of the students here,’ Dean
Gilliam observes. “Apart from
academic values, nothing in a man’s
four years at Washington and Lee
means more to him than _ living
under the Honor System.”

While the great
Washington and Lee men know
Dean Gilliam as Dean of Students,
perhaps most educational associ-
ates outside the University admire
him for his knowledge and expe-
rience in the admissions field.

majority of

Washington and Lee’s admissions
program today is essentially Dean
Gilliam’s admissions program.
Other colleges and universities
have used his work as a model and
profited by his example. He is an
enthusiastic supporter of the work
of the College Entrance Examina-
tion Board, of whose trustees Pres-
ident Cole is now the chairman.
Largely through Dean Gilliam’s
urging, Washington and Lee _ be-
came in 1950 the first men’s col-
lege in the South to require the
Scholastic Aptitude ‘Test of the
CEEB for all applicants. Three
years ago, again under Dean Gil-
liam’s leadership, Washington and
Lee became the first men’s college
in the South to require three CEEB
achievement tests of each candidate
for admission.

Dean Gilliam’s stature as an ad-
missions authority and his interest
in the CEEB led to his appoint
ment im 1952 as the first represen-
tative of a Southern college to serve
on the CEEB’s executive commit-
tee, a post he held for three years.

But CEEB tests scores are only
one of the tools that the admis-
sion officer must use, Dean Gilliam
insists. When he helped select a
class, he would weigh many fac-
tors, including a= student’s class
standing, his principal’s evalua-
tion and recommendation, and the
recommendations of others. And
from the many hundreds of appli-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Dean GILLIAM presents
senior ‘THOMAS N. RAINS
of Atlanta with the first
Gilliam Award of the stu-
dent Executive Commit-
tee. The award honors
DEAN GILLIAM by singling
out the senior who has
made the greatest contri-
bution to the University
during his undergraduate
career. RAINS was an Ex-
ecutive Committee mem-
ber ‘and also served as
chairman of the Student
Control Committee, hav-
ing responsibilities. in-
cluding student disciplin-
ary matters. The award
was made at the annual
banquet for seniors given
by the Alumni Assocta-
tion.

cants, Dean Gilliam would choose
the relative few who hopefully
would become Washington and Lee
eraduates.

“In common with college educa-
tion over the country, academic
standards have been improved, and
a college education today repre-
sents a far greater opportunity for
a far larger segment of young men
and women than was ever dreamed
of a few decades ago,” he adds.

In March, 1962, Dean Gilliam
was stricken with a heart attack at
the busiest time of the year for a
college admissions man. Dean Gil-
liam’s close associate of ten years,
Associate Dean of Admissions
James D. Farrar, took over efh-
ciently, and completed the selec-
tion of the 1962 entering class in
a manner that reflected the inval-
uable experience to be gained in
working with a person like Dean
Gilliam.

Dean Gilliam’s recovery was
rapid and complete, and he re-
turned to his work in September,
but he made no secret of his hope
to relinquish soon the heavy re-

SUMMER 19638

sponsibilities. As the end of the
academic year approached, a num-
ber of events took place that sug-
gested the awareness of the student
body and alumni that the Univer-
sity would be losing one of its out-
standing figures.

The Student Body Executive
Committee set up the “Gilliam
Award” to recognize meritorious
contributions to the University by a
senior. Members of the Board of
Trustees arranged for a portrait of
Dean Gilliam to be presented to the
University, and the student news-
paper honored Dean Gilliam’s serv-
ice in editorial praise. In its dedica-
tion, the 1963 Calyx said his “con-
tribution... transcends all verbal
tribute...” President Cole singled
him out for praise in the 1963
graduation remarks, and Dean Gil-
liam was accorded a standing ova-
tion.

Like all dynamic men in an aca-
demic setting, he has helped build
his own legend that future Wash-
ington and Lee men will share. He
is ever the English professor, and
there are few graduates who, at one

 

time or another, were not reminded
politely but positively, of some
breach of grammar or usage in
Dean Gilliam’s presence.

Generations of Washington and
Lee men remember his big, broad-
rimmed slouch hats, and his dis-
tinctive walk.

His sonorous, sometimes boom-
ing voice will still echo through
Washington Hall, but in his new
office he may not need what is per-
haps the most unnecessary piece of
office equipment ever used at Wash-
ington and Lee: an office “‘inter-
com” system linking Dean Gilliam’s
desk and that of his secretary, Mrs.
Mildred Brownlee. When Dean
Gilliam calls for Mrs. Brownlee on
the intercom, the general effect is
more like a public announcement
that the Dean is at his desk. “I
think he must answer his own echo
sometimes,’ one of his associates
observed.

Happily for Washington and
Lee, there will be a continuing
echo for years to come of the good
work that Dean Gilliam has done
for Washingotn and Lee.

Or

PORTRAIT Of Dean Gilliam was

formally presented to the Uni-

versity on June 4 in a special cere-
mony in Evans Hall.

John F. Hendon, a member of
the University’s Board of ‘Trustees
who lives in Birmingham, Ala.,
presented the portrait to Washing-
ton and Lee on behalf of a group
of friends of Dean Gilliam. Presi-
dent Fred C. Cole accepted the
portrait for the University.

Among those attending the pres-
entation were members of the
Board of ‘Trustees, members of
Dean Gilliam’s family, and mem-
bers of the University’s adminis-
trative staff with whom Dean Gil-
liam is closely associated in his
work.

The portrait, painted by William
W. S. Wilson, of Birmingham,
shows Dean Gilliam seated in his
Washington Hall office. The steeple

A Portrait
For the Uniwersity

of historic Lee Chapel is in the
background of the painting.

In presenting the portrait to the
University, Mr. Hendon said:

“In the minds of his friends,
Frank J. Gilliam, over the past 37
years, has rendered a service to
Washington and Lee equaled by
few men in its history. Not only
is the high quality of the student
body today largely a result of his
work, but also his staunch support
of Washington and Lee in all of its
worthwhile endeavors has been a
real force in the standing of our
University at the present time. This
he has done with no thought of
personal reward other than a deep
satisfaction within himself.”

“The work of Frank Gilliam will
live on in generations to come,”
Mr. Hendon said.

Mr. Hendon reviewed Dean Gil-
liam’s early career as a teacher, both

 

in the United States and in the
Congo, where he was an education-
al missionary.

“To me, his finest teaching be-
gan when he became Dean of Stu-
dents at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity in 1931. Not the kind of
teaching he did so well in the Con-
go, nor the teaching of his classes
in English from text book and lec-
ture—but the teaching of wnchang-
ing values—the appreciation of
courtesy, the cherishing of friend-
ships, the respect for truth, the de-
sire for learning, and—above all
else—the love of honor.”

President Cole accepted the por-
trait for the University, praising
Dean Gilliam for his leadership in
the admissions field.

“No name brings forth more ad-
miration and more expressions of
friendship than that of Frank Gil-
liam among his associates in the
field of admissions, and among
deans of students, and secondary
school principals and headmasters
across the country,” the President
said. “He is respected for his forth-
rightness and integrity, and his as-
sociations with and helpfulness to
others in education have been of
immeasurable significance to this
and other universities.”

“Today,” President Cole con-
tinued, “the South is looked upon
as being a leader in the field of
admissions, and no small part of
this is the result of Dean Gilliam’s
foresight and hard work. In recog-
nizing the services of Frank Gilliam
to this University through the pres-
entation of this portrait to it, you
show clearly that his work here is
respected as it is over this region
and over the country.”’

Dean Gilliam’s response to Mr.
Hendon’s and President Cole’s re-
marks are carried in full on another

page.

PRESIDENT COLE, left, DEAN GittIAm, and

‘TRUSTEE JOHN F. HENDON pose with the

Gilliam portrait at its unveiling in Evans
Hall on June 4.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Dean Gilliam’s Remarks of Response

“T suppose that any occasion of retirement has a certain
amount of sadness connected with it, but I know that any
tinge of sadness associated with my retirement is com-
pletely wiped away by the lively memory of the surging,
rewarding years so crowded with happiness that have been
the portion of Louise and me. These years have been
crowned by what has been said and done here tonight.
It is wonderful for me to know that this portrait will be
a part of Washington and Lee, but even more wonderful
is the friendship that conceived of and produced it.

“This gift is typical of the experience that I have had
at the hands of the members of the Board of Trustees, a
group distinguished in ability, devoted in untiring SETUICE,
and constant in their consideration of all of us whose
lines have fallen into the pleasant places of Washington
and Lee. It is no common thing to have enjoyed friendship
with such men as Mr. Baker, Mr. Martin, Mr. Davis, and
such representatives of the Board as those who are here
now.

AN IMPETUOUS DECISION

“As I look back tonight across just half a century, to
a September aay fifty years ago this fall, when I came to
the campus as a freshman, I realize that many decisions
of my life have not been the result of careful, deliberate
consideration, but rather impetuosity. I know that Frank
Gaines and Fred Cole can confirm this statement all too
“well! But I know also that two decisions that might well
be called impetuous have been the wellsprings of the
greatest happiness that I could have chosen.

“The first was in 1913. I had applied to and been
accepted by one of the very large Eastern Ivy League col-
leges, which I had never visited, but near which we were
spending the summer. Late in August I went to the
campus. It was undoubtedly magnificent but so over-
powering in size and impressiveness that I quickly made
up my mind that it was not where a small-town Virginia
boy belonged. I went back to where we were staying
and called Dr. Henry Louis Smith, who had been inaugu-
rated as president of Washington and Lee a few months
earlier. We all recognize that it was quite different in
getting accepted at a college in 1913 and in 1963. Dr. Smith
inquired if I had a secondary school diploma and whether
I would be dependent upon the University’s scholarship
assistance. My reply on these points produced .a..cordial
invitation to enter Washington and Lee, and I did so a
few weeks later. Bete es

WAFFLES AND ENGLISH

“The other decision was in 1926. Louise and I had
been obliged to return from the Congo through her
doctor’s orders, and I was at my mother’s in Lynchburg,
looking forward to educational work in some connection,
but not being in any great hurry to make a decision.
One night in November the telephone rang. It was Dr.
Shannon, head of the English department, under whom
I had taken my major at Washington and Lee. He asked
if I could come up and teach freshman English for him.
I asked him whether he meant next February or next
September. He replied that he meant the next morning,
as he had an emergency vacancy to fill. I gulped, but
concluded that I had as much courage as Dr. Shannon
and accepted. I caught the five o’clock train out of Lynch-
burg—one still rode trains into Lexington thirty-seven
years ago—and Dr. Moffatt met me at the station, took me

SUMMER 1963

lo the Dutch Inn, filled me full of waffles and the Eng-
lish assignment, and I taught my first class at nine o’clock.
Since then I have had my foot in the crack of the door
and the University hasn’t been able to shut it. I think that
I presumably am the prototype for the collaboration by
Alexander Woollcott and Monty Wooley in The Man Who
Came to Dinner. But there has never since been the
slightest thought that I could have been as happy else-
where. Certainly in the phrase of our beloved Henry
Louis Smith, Louise and I have ever felt ‘peculiarly for-
lunate.’

A RicH ENVIRONMENT

“Lexington is in itself a beautiful place in which to live.
{ recall so well one afternoon when Mr. Davis was at my
home. On leaving he remarked to me, ‘I wonder if you
know how I envy you the privilege of living in Lexington,
against the place in which I live and work.”

“One is rich in the environment in which one lives
here, but the greatest privilege has been in the associations
with those at Washington and Lee: association with those
in the Administration, under whom and with whom I
have worked, and with every one of whom I have been
proud to claim friendship personally and in the common
bond of serving Washington and Lee. And I have had just
the same type of reward with members of the faculty,
first in teaching and later in administrative contacts.

“But I know that you will understand if I say that
the greatest thing has been the opportunity to have one’s
task from day to day the coming to know as individuals
the boys who in the final summation are Washington
and Lee. There was the opportunity to learn to know
many of them first in connection with their admission
here; then when they came, to work with them over their
problems, to see them fail sometimes, but far more times
to see them move steadily ahead to the fruition of young
manhood at its finest.

‘Two QUOTATIONS

“T hope that the frame of reference that I use will not
be misunderstood if I bring in two brief quotations:

“In a recent biography of Queen Elizabeth the First
there is a reference to Queen Elizabeth and her great
councilor, Robert Cecil: ‘Their business was the art of gov-
ernment, and they recognized no distinction between bust-
ness and pleasure.” Certainly no work could have brought
more of pleasure in the finest sense than my work in asso-
ciation with students here—association that has gone on—
into the years wilh so many of them as alumni.

“The other reference is to a quotation from Carlyle:
‘Blessed is he who has found his work. Let him ask no
other blessedness’” And 1 feel that I can humbly say that
I feel truly blessed in the type of work that has been mine.

“And from it all the one testament that I would give—
even to this group that so little stands in need of it—is
to the strength and fineness of Washington and Lee stu-
dents as I have known them. ‘The old order changeth,
yielding place to the new’ and some things pass to which
we are attached and are reluctant to see go, but surely the
eternal verities abide; and if omniscience could cail the
score, I believe that it would attest to the tact that the
Washington and Lee that you and I have known and loved
is as great today as ever it was in the image that you carry
in your heart—and that, with the blessing of God, it wili |
surely move ahead to an even greater and stronger future.”

A New Team of Deans

Reorganization of Admissions Office

Follows Dean Gilliam’s Retirement

HE RETIREMENT of Dean Gilliam
i Dean of Admissions will re-
sult in a substantial reorganization
of the University’s admissions staff
and procedures, President Cole Says,
in order “to adjust to the loss of a
person of Dean Gilliam’s  expe-
rience and knowledge in the admis-
sions field.”

Simultaneous with his announce-
ment of Dean Gilliam’s retirement,
President Cole announced — the
Board of ‘Trustees’ designation of
Dean Gilliam as Dean Emeritus.
President Cole said that Dean Gil-
liam will continue to serve the ad-
missions office as a consultant and
that he will also serve as a special
adviser to the president’s office.

Under the new admissions organ-
ization outlined by President Cole,
Dean of Students Edward C. At-
wood, Jr., becomes chairman of a
faculty admissions committee; As-
sociate Dean of Admissions James
D. Farrar becomes Associate Dean
of Students and Director of Admis-
sions; and a new staff member,
Lewis G. John, becomes Assistant
Dean of Students and Director of
Financial Aid.

‘The faculty committee will serve
as an advisory and review body for
the admissions program, president
Cole said.

“When a person with Dean Gil-
liam’s vast knowledge and exper-
ience steps down from a position of
great responsibility that he has
filled with such distinction for so

8

long, it poses an unusual challenge
for his associates,’ President Cole
said. “Washington and Lee is ex-
tremely fortunate to have
competent and resourceful men as
Dean Atwood, Dean Farrar, and
Mr. John to carry on. We are also
fortunate that we may continue to
call on Dean Gilliam for advice and
other assistance.”

such

Dean Atwood, 40, became Dean
of Students in February, 1962. He

Aid and Scholarships, and in 1962,
he was named Associate Dean of
Admissions. He is a 1949 graduate
of Washington and Lee.

John, 26, who will assume his
new duties as Assistant Dean of
Students and Director of Financial
Aid on September 1, is a 1958 hon-
or graduate of Washington and
Lee, earning Phi Beta Kappa hon-
ors, a Fulbright fellowship for eco-
nomics and political science study

 

DEAN JOHN

joined the Washington and Lee
economics faculty in 1952, but re-
signed in 1960 to become a con-
sultant-investor relations for the
General Electric Company, a_po-
sition he held until his appoint-
ment as Dean of Students.

Dean Farrar, 37, has worked
closely with Dean Gilliam since
1952 when he was named Assistant
Dean of Students. In 1960, he also
was appointed Director of Financial

DEAN AtTWooD

DEAN FARRAR

at the University of Edinburgh,
and a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship
for the study of economics and pub-
lic affairs at Princeton. He holds
the Master of Public Affairs degree
from Princeton.

A native of Cortland, N. Y.,
John is completing a two-year duty
tour as the commander of a Nike
missile battery at Edgemont, Pa.
He is married and the father of an
infant son.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

A skirmish line of photographers firing away as seniors
marched forward to receive degrees this June.

Degrees Conferred Upon 226 Seniors
At the University’s 1963 Gommencement

Two Graduation Events
Are Held in Evans Hall
Because of Restoration
Work at Lee Chapel;
Chancellor Gaines Was
One of Five Recipients

of Honorary Degrees

SUMMER 1963

HE FINAL exercises that culmin-
T ate Washington and Lee aca-
demic careers for 228 graduates this
June were unique in at least one re-
spect.

For the first time since 1868, Lee
Chapel was not involved in the
commencement program, either as
the scene for the graduation cere-
mony or for the baccalaureate ser-
mon. Its painstaking restoration
had not progressed sufficiently far
by early June to permit a time-
honored tradition for Washington
and Lee seniors to be preserved.

Nevertheless, the activities that
closed out the University’s 214th
year went smoothly enough. ‘he
beautiful Letitia Pate Evans Hall,
a campus facility of ever-expand-
ing usefulness to Washington and
Lee, was used both for the bacca-
laureate service and for the ROTC

commissioning ceremony, and in
both instances it provided an im-
pressive and fitting setting for these
memorable events.

The weather was characteristical-
ly ideal. Although the graduating
class was not substantially larger
than in other recent years, there
seemed to be a larger number of
parents and other members of sen-
iors’ families present. Alumni Sec-
retary William Washburn has tan-
gible evidence of this—for the first
time in many years over 1,000 per-
sons—seniors, families, faculty, and
staf_—were served at the alumni
luncheon on the front campus
lawn following the baccalaureate
service.

Of the 228 degrees conferred by
President Cole at the Friday exer-

(Continued on page 12)

 

 

Paragraphs from the Graduation Addresses

Baccalaureate:

“Has it ever occurred to you how the tent-
maker and the soldier, the apostle and the gen-
erval—the general, our general, that is—actually
stand shoulder to shoulder in their common
ability to meet the most extreme adversity in
calm confidence, to forgive their enemies and
to translate their defeats into higher victories?
To be sure, they lied under radically different
circumstances, but in these respects they are truly
brothers in spirit.

“In the case of Paul, we see a man denied his
legal rights as a Roman citizen, stripped and
beaten and thrown into prison as the cause to
which he devoted his life crumbles in ruins about
his feet. Turning to Lee, we see a man also denied
the right of citizenship; and subjected to an in-
credible amount of verbal abuse in the midst of
crushing defeat of the cause to which he had not
only devoted his life but in defense of which he
had led thousands to a futile death.

“In that dungeon at Philippi, Paul was heard
singing praises to God at midnight. In the mid-
night of defeat, Lee came to Lexington to sing;
to sing in the chapel which he built for his
struggling, war-ravished little college. There in
that chapel, the greatest of the generals came
faithfully to worship, to pray, to sing, not only
with the sons of his former comrades in arms but
also with the warmly-welcomed sons of his for-
mer enemies on the field of battle. There in that
chapel, on this campus, he set such an example
of positive forgiveness, of humility and courage,
of gentleness and strength, that an incredibly
powerful, spiritual impulse was sent surging
through the entire South, indeed throughout the
nation; and has continued, as we all know, down
to the present day.

“The breadth and depth of this forgiving
spirit is beyond measurement. Again and again
his biographers refer in awe to this quality in
Lee.”

 

“This amazing attitude towards his enemies
as individuals he exhibited throughout the war,
even as, in loyal defense of his native state, he

 

Dr. SPRUNT relaxes with iced tea
at the Alumni Luncheon.

exerted all his energies and military genius to
destroying the Union armies as such. For here
was aman, that rare person, who could hate what
his’chemies stood for without hating his enemies
themselves. Here was a man who really obeyed
Jesus’ command that we love our enemies.

“This forging spirit he brought with him to
Washington College. Never countenancing any
expression of hatred or vengeance directed
against the Yankees, he set his heart upon mak-
ing this campus a place of healing for his coun-
try’s deepest wounds—yes, his country’s, even
though he was denied citizenship in it.

“Thoughtful men have been asking ever
since, how could he have done it, how could a
man have lived a life like that under conditions
of the nature which he faced?”

 

“This then, I suggest, was Lee’s secret. His
unwavering trust in the goodness and the power
of God, God his Creator and his Redeemer. In
a letter to a friend who was facing a time of af-
fliction he put this secret in his own words.
‘We cannot help it, and we must endure it. We
must exert all our patience and in His own good
tume God will relieve us, and make all things
work together for good, if we give Him our love
and place in Him our trust.”

—Dr. Davin W. Sprunt, University Chaplain
Baccalaureate Sermon, 1963

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Valedictory

“For the first time, I began to ask ‘why’ about
a lot of things that I had never thought to ques-
tion. The fact that the end result of such ques-
tioning sometimes was no different from my orig-
inal attitude is of secondary importance. What
is important is the way one arrives at an attt-
tude—this is what marks the level of growth.”

 

“My new credos are three in number: I must
not be afraid to do something just because it ts
different from anything I have done before; I
must not be afraid to think new thoughts just
because they don’t tally with my former ones;
I must not be afraid to listen to the arguments
of those who disagree—for if I refuse to listen to
criticism, my own ideas will become stagnant. I
may be swayed from my position or at least be
forced to question it; or hearing the other side
may make me more certain than ever that I am
right. But regardless of the outcome, the im-
portant thing is that I do not refuse to hear and
to consider the other side of the question. This

“As the members of this class are aware, the Honor
System has been the subject of considerable discussion
among students during the current academic year.
There ave those who believe they would make the Hon-
or System more effective through certain changes, and
there are those who would keep its effectiveness by
permitting no change.

“T believe there is a tendency in each generation
of students to think in terms of a certain uniqueness
that applies only to their four years on this campus. As
you have grown in experience and maturity here, you
have become concerned over a number of problems
and issues, some of which have no simple solutions.
Because there are no easy answers, this should suggest
that perhaps these concerns have been concerns of
other student generations before you, and that they
will surely continue to stimulate the minds of those
who will follow you...”

SUMMER 1963

tty
e=—y

 

attitude I believe to be my most valuable ac-
quisition in the last four years. It was made pos-
sible because there were people around me whose
minds were further along in this process than
my own. The college campus is one of the main
places where objectivity of thought and the open
mind should be in evidence. They are not neces-
sarily taught in the classroom. They are best
taught by example.”

 

“Pick out something really controversial—
something about which you are outspoken—the
race question for example, regardless of how you
feel about it. Listen again to the arguments of
those who feel differently and then once more
arrive at a decision; it may or may not have
changed, but if you have been fair in making
your determination, this is all another can ask
of you.”

—R. MEADE CHRISTIAN, JR., Richmond, Va.
Valedictorian, 1963

The President's Remarks

“Cynicism is deadly, and it’s cowardly as well. It
is the easy way out, and it has a certain appeal for
young people and older ones, too—from time to time.
However vigorously we may debate our problems,
we cannot afford to be cynical.

“The mechanics of the Honor System are not im-
mutable, but the principle that undergirds it is un-
assailable There have been changes in the procedures
and applications of the Honor System in the past, and
there will likely be changes in the future that will
evolve from proper debate and considered decision by
the students who are charged with the responsibility of
its administration. But I can imagine no defensible
challenge to the fundamental truth that a gentleman,
here and elsewhere, does not lie, does not cheat, does
not steal. |

—Dr. Frep C. Cotrez, President
Graduation Remarks, 1963

 

(Continued from page 9)

cises on June 47, twenty-nine were
bachelors of law, forty-three were
bachelors of science in commerce,
twenty-five were bachelors of sci-
ence, two were bachelors of science
with special attainments in chemis-
try, twenty-four were bachelors of
arts in economics or political sci-
ence, and 105 were bachelors of arts
in the liberal arts and sciences.

Among the honor graduates were
two with summa cum laude diplo-
mas—Timothy G. Ireland in the
School of Law and R. Meade Chris-
tian, Jr., a pre-medical student in
the College who was the class vale-
dictorian. One law student gradu-

ated magna cum laude and six stu-
dents in the College achieved this
distinction. Among the cum laude
graduates were four in the School
of Law, nine in the School of Com-
merce and Administration, and
nineteen in the College.

One departure from the usual
commencement program involved
the selection of the University’s
own chaplain to deliver the bacca-
laureate sermon. The reaction of
seniors, their families, and the fac-
ulty to Dr. David Sprunt’s sermon
suggested that it was a choice long
overdue. and one that the Univer-
sity might consider more frequent-
ly in the future.

For the commissioning ceremony
for forty-seven senior cadets in the
University’s Army ROTC program
and four other seniors, an address
by the Chief of the Army’s person-
nel operations, Maj. Gen. Stephen
B. Hanmer, was the highlight. Gen-
eral Hanmer outlined responsibili-
ties and challenges faced by new
oficers before he presented the
forty-six reserve commissions and
one regular army to ROTC gradu-
ates. He also presented Marine re-
serve commissions to three Wash-
ington and Lee seniors and a na-
val reserve commission to another.

Twice during the graduation
ceremony on front campus lawn

The University

Honors Dr. Gaines

PRESIDENT COLE reads from the citation
praising Dr. GAINES’ service to higher education.

 

Dr. FRANCIS PENDLETON GAINES, Chancellor of Washing-
ton and Lee University.
When Washington and Lee University this day honors

Francis Pendleton Gaines, in a real and fitting sense it is
honoring itself, for Dr. Gaines personified this University
for more than a generation. Only one man served as pres-

ident for a longer period than Dr. Gaines, and none
served with greater distinction or with greater devotion

to the institution.

A native of South Carolina bui one who was brought
up as a Virginian, Dr. Gaines came to Washington and

Chancellor.

Lee in 1930 at the age of 38, already recognized as a
scholar and teacher of outstanding merit, already with
experience as a college president at Wake Forest College.
The 29 years of his administration that lay ahead were to
be years of challenge and opportunity, years of progress
and growth for Washington and Lee. The measure of
Dr. Gaines’ success is recorded in the increase of the Uni-
versity’s resources and in the increase of its stature as
one of the nation’s leading colleges for men.

When he retired from the presidency in 1959, the
University was comforted by the knowledge that he would
remain a resident of this community and that his service
to Washington and Lee would continue in his new role as

Distinguished as he was as a college administrator, as
notable as he is as an expositor of Lee and of the South,
Dr. Gaines is honored here today more for those personal
qualities of kindness and generosity that are synonymous
with his name in the hearts of thousands of alumni and
others associated with him. He resisted steadfastly the
mounting pressures in higher education that sometimes
removed the college president from close contact with
students and faculty, and his interest in the happiness
and welfare of all his associates, past and present, remains
warm and sincere.

In behalf of all those who have been moved by the
eloquence of his oratory, those who have known the joy
of his wit and humor as a teller of stories, and those who
have benefited directly and indirectly from his contribu-

tions to higher education, this University, with gratitude
and affection, confers upon Francis Pendleton Gaines its
degree of Doctor of Laws.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

the seniors, faculty, and others in
the audience rose to give standing
ovations to two men whose lives

are woven into the fabric of Wash-
ington and Lee. Dr. Francis P.
Gaines was applauded when the
University’s honorary degree of
Doctor of Laws was bestowed upon
him. Dean Frank J. Gilliam was
honored by the audience when
President Cole announced Dean
Gilliam’s retirement as Dean of Ad-
missions.

In all, the University conferred
five honorary degrees. In addition
to Dr. Gaines, four other distin-
guished Americans were honored,
among them two graduates of the
University.

Dr. Thomas D. Clark, Distin-
guished Professor of History at the
University of Kentucky, received
the Doctor of Letters degree. His
citation said, in part, “By virtue
of his accomplishments as scholar
and teacher, Professor Clark adds
unusual lustre to the distinctive

SUMMER 1968

 

The recipients of honorary degrees pose with PREstDENT COLE following the

commencement exercises. L-r, they are BENJAMIN L. RAWLINS, °30, BISHOP

Paut N. GARBER, Dr. THomas D. CLARK, CHANCELLOR GAINES, and PRESIDENT
CoLe. AMBASSADOR Puitie D. Sprouse, 28, was unable to attend.

service rendered our society by
those who teach in the _ institu-
tions of higher education.”

Dr. Paul Neff Garber, resident
Bishop of the Richmond Episco-
pal Area of the Methodist Church,
was awarded the Doctor of Divin-
ity degree. Bishop Garber’s citation
declared that “While the achieve-
ments of an individual in only
one career field are often sufficient
to warrant the admiration of his
colleagues on occasions such as this,
praise is all the more fitting when
that person has successfully de-
ployed his notable talents to serve
two outstanding careers. Such a
man is Bishop Garber, who has
won deserved recognition as a
scholar and educator and as a
world leader of the Methodist
Church.”

Alumni honored were Benjamin
L. Rawlins, ’30, secretary and as-
sistant general counsel of the Uni-
ted States Steel Corporation, and
Philip D. Sprouse, ‘28, United

States Ambassador to Cambodia.
Both received Doctor of Laws de-
erees, and Ambassador Sprouse’s
degree was conferred in absentia.
Mr. Rawlins’ citation said, in
part, “As the corporate organiza-
tion of U.S. Steel has grown and
evolved during the _ thirty-three
years since Ben Rawlins first be-
came associated with a Chicago
division of the firm, so has his mea-
sure of service and responsibility
erown in a career of steady ad-
vancement. ‘Today, as Secretary
and Assistant General Counsel, he
brings wisdom and insight to the
affairs of an industry whose activi-
ties affect the lives of all of us.”
Ambassador Sprouse was praised
as a man who had risen through
the Foreign Service career ranks
to the highest level. “The presence
of Philip Sprouse in the American
embassy in Cambodia is a source
of pride to his University and his
associates among the faculty and
alumni, but this is a pride that can

13

 

be shared by all Americans,” his
citation said. “Because of his post
in a critical area of ideological con-
flict, Ambassador Sprouse is indeed
serving in the front line of Amer-
ican diplomacy, and he is doing
so with noteworthy distinction.”

For his remarks to the gradu-
ates, President Cole spoke to the
future associations which the 1963
seniors would have with other al-
umni of Washington and Lee. He
recalled his first encounters with
alumni when he became president
four years ago, and he said:

“Everywhere I went, I found
Washington and Lee men not only
successful in the ways in which
they earned a living, but success-
ful in the ways in which they ap-
pled their talents and abilities to
the service of their communities
and fellowmen.”

President Cole predicted that the
1963 seniors would find themselves
drawn into a “similar pattern of
willing service in whatever capaci-
ties you are best qualified.”

‘The president made personal ref-
erence to a number of alumni, most
of them deceased or retired, whom
he felt suggested the unselfish ser-
vice of Washington and Lee men,
and he assured his audience that
the list of such alumni “‘is virtual-
ly endless.”

President Cole referred to his
1962 graduation remarks in which
he quoted the late Eugene N. S.
Girard, ’34. Girard wrote, when a
senior, that there is an “essential
fineness” about Washington and
Lee that affects all those associated
with the University.

“You, too, as graduates, are now
a part of this spirit, this fineness,
and you, too, will come to see this
fineness and feel this spirit more
directly as you grow older.”

A limited number of copies of the

Baccalaureate Sermon are available

through the Office of Information
Services.

14

 

The Recumbent Statue has a thorough bath and brushup. oe

August Reopening
For Lee Chapel

By A. PRESCOTT ROWE
Lee Chapel Curator

OLKS AT WASHINGTON AND LEE

had come to accept the high
board fence and the paraphernalia
of construction work around Lee
Chapel as so much campus scenery.
But in late May and early June,
after a year of busy activity, there
were unmistakable signs that work
on the extensive restoration of the
Chapel was nearing completion.

University officials were seen tak-
ing visiting dignitaries down the
hill for a peek inside, and curious
others among the faculty and staff
began risking the scornful looks
of the project foreman and _ his
crew to get a preview of what the
restored building would be lke.
What they saw became the subject
of much campus conversation, and
all looked forward to the reopen-
ing of the popular historical land-
mark.

Although — original — planning
called for Lee Chapel to be re-

opened in time for the University’s
commencement on June 7, the care
taken in the $370,000 restoration
project altered the initial schedule.
Representatives of the John P.
Pettyjohn Company of Lynchburg,
general contractor for the project,
indicated in early April that they
could not have their crews out of
the Chapel before July 1.

‘The University’s Superintendent
of Buildings and Grounds, D. E.
Brady, Jr., said in May it would
take most of July to put the finish-
ing touches on the nearly 100-year-
old Chapel. A final coat of paint,
the re-setting of the original pews,
the installation of specially-made
light fixtures for the auditorium,
return of the restored Erben pipe
organ and the laying of podium
carpeting were among the _last-
minute tasks. And outside, land-
scaping would be required to re-
move the scars of excavations and

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

other necessary assaults on Univer-
sity greenery.

Plans call for Lee Chapel to be
re-opened on August 4 when Lex-
ington area residents will have an
opportunity to get a preview of the
restored building. ‘Tentative sche-
duling provides for a special eve-
ning open house for area alumni
on August 9.

A formal rededication ceremony
is being planned for early Fall after
Washington and Lee’s 215th aca-
demic year gets under way. No date
has been set for this ceremony.

The complete restoration of Lee
Chapel was started over a year ago
after the Ford Motor Company
Fund of Dearborn, Mich., gave
Washington and Lee $370,000 for
the undertaking. ‘The funds were
given to the University to “help
preserve one of the South’s most
prized landmarks,’ the Fund’s
trustees said.

Although emphasis in the Chapel
project was placed on restoration,
certain changes were made in both
the auditorium and the first-floor
museum to enhance the Chapel’s
appeal to the more than 30,000
persons who visit it annually.

In the auditorium, the pews have
been rebuilt and altered slightly
for comfort, provisions have been
made for a public address system,
and the color scheme for the walls
has been changed from a buff tone
to off-white. ‘The woodwork and
pews have been painted white with
“a hint of blue” based on the light
appearance in old photographs and
the color found when architects
scraped original woodwork down to
what was presumed to be the first
coat.

The familar overhead  lghts
have been removed from the audi-
torium and specially-made fixtures
have been mounted on the walls
and around the outside base of the
balcony. ‘The fixtures—brass with
glass chimneys and _ globes—are
modeled on original fixtures and

SUMMER 1968

photographs of the Chapel’s in-
terior taken during Robert E. Lee’s
funeral on October 12, 1870.

Lighting for the recumbent
statue is inset in special coves in
the chamber ceiling. Floodlights
also have been rigged in the ceil-
ing to accent the Valentine statue
of General Lee.

In the museum area on the first
floor, work was concentrated on
remodeling rather than _ restora-
tion, with the exception of Lee’s
office. The office will be arranged
along the same lines as Lee left it
in September of 1870. The furni-
ture for the room has been re-
furbished by the Lynchburg firm
that worked on the pews.

‘The museum display area and
shop are done in a beige motif with
monk’s cloth stretched over several
of the walls to aid in hanging por-
traits and photographs. In the cen-
ter of the main room of the mu-
seum is a three-sided screen from
floor to ceiling that is designed to
provide additional display area.
‘The screen surrounds the marker
that designates the spot where Gen-
eral Lee was buried from 1870 to
1883. In 1883, his body was moved
to the Lee family crypt in the rear
of the Chapel.

Whenever possible, original floor-
ing and millwork were put back
in the Chapel to keep the restora-
tion work as authentic as possible.
Each piece of flooring in Lee’s of-
fice and in the auditorium was re-
moved and numbered so it could
be replaced in the same location.

   

“Pat” Brapy, right, tells MR. Ray C. Koot
of the Ford Motor Company Fund about
Chapel progress.

The same was done with the roof
slate.

Certain extensive improvements
were made in the Chapel’s struc-
ture designed to assure the future
preservation of the building and
its contents.

Steel beams in the floor and the
roof plus concrete sub-flooring for
the auditorium were installed. At
one point in the project, the floor
and roof of the Chapel were com-
pletely removed. A fire alarm sys-
tem has been installed along with
safety devices to detect leaks and
faulty equipment operation. ‘The
Chapel has been air-conditioned
completely to aid in preserving the
million-dollar art collection that
hangs there and the hundreds of
Lee memorabilia that again will
be displayed in the museum.

A special underground room—
not visible to the public—houses
sizeable heating, air-conditioning
and electrical units. Additional
equipment has been installed in
the previously unused area above
the auditorium ceiling.

‘The Chapel’s Erben pipe organ
was rebuilt by a specialist in Rich-
mond. It has been put back in its
place in the balcony and will be
played for special occasions.

A special University staff is still
working on the cataloguing, iden-
tification and restoration of the
items that were removed from the
museum display area in June, 1962.
Each item from the Chapel has
been assigned a catalogue number
and complete data has been col-
lected on the item and recorded on
a number of cards referring to the
donor and the general description
of the piece.

New display cases with special
lighting will be moved into the
museum late this summer. ‘Tenta-
tive plans call for only a portion of
the items owned by the University
to be displayed at one time. The
exhibits will be rotated in order
that all the items of value can be
displayed during a year.

15

‘““Management”’ of News:

16

An Unsolvable Dilemma?

How Far Should, Or Can, the American Government Go

In Its Attempts to Control the News in Times

Of Cold War Crisis? Professor O. W. Riegel, Head

Of the Department of Journalism and Communications and

An Authority on Propaganda, Discusses a Current Controversy

INCE THE CUBAN CRISIS of last October, it would ap-
S pear that virtually everybody has had something
to say, usually with great heat, on the subject of the
“management” of news. The periodical press has de-
voted massive space to the subject, editors and broad-
casters have called meetings to pass resolutions about
it, Congressional committees have investigated it, the
President has summoned private groups to confer
about it, teachers have made it a subject of class-
room discussion, and all kinds of other people, ranging
from politicians to clergymen to letters-to-the-editor
writers, have spoken their minds about it from any
forum they could command. Among the voices pro-
voked to comment must now be counted the Alumni
Magazine, which ordinarily doesn’t concern itself with
subjects so controversial.

Why the furor? There is nothing new about the
manipulation of information. Governments, as well as
anyone else in a position to do so, have “managed
news” since there was news to manage. Much of what
passes for history and literature today was the work of
talented writers encouraged by subsidy or privilege to
glorify a ruler or an elite (translate: Image-making
public relations). Someone has aptly called history
itself the propaganda of the victorious. Modern his-
tory is full of “managed news,” the staging of events
to make news, and image-making of all kinds, includ-
ing the Ems Telegram, the Zimmermann Note, the
domestic and foreign propaganda and cultural activi-
ties of national governments in both war and peace,
the “good news” of the religions of the world, and the
organization of “publicity procedures” by virtually

 

PROFESSOR O. W. RrEGEL established
his name in the field of propaganda
and public opinion research as early as
1934 when his book, MOBILIZING FOR
CHaos, was published, giving insight
into the causes and effects of govern-
ment control of the press and other
mass media. During World War II,
he was a propaganda analyst for the
Office of War Information and later
served in Central and Southeastern
Europe as an OWI editor. He joined
the Washington and Lee faculty in
1930 and became director of the Lee
Memorial Journalism Foundation in
1934. He continues to serve as a fre-
quent consultant to the U. S.
Government.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

everyone. I have never heard of a government agency
issuing a story on the bad job the agency has been do-
ing, any more than I have of a university publishing
articles on its mistakes and shortcomings in an alumni
magazine, or of a candidate for public office making a
speech on his ignorance of economics. In brief, the
urge to disseminate “beneficial” news, and to gloss
over or omit news that is detrimental or embarrassing,
is universal, and this is true whether the case concerns
an individual, a private agency, or a government.

Nor has there been any lack of publicity about
the special eagerness of governments to manipulate the
public mind. In the period of disenchantment after
World War I, a great many books and articles ap-
peared “debunking” war aims and “exposing” govern-
ment propaganda. Between the wars a number of us
were beating the drums to warn of an inevitable catas-
trophe if news manipulation were not brought under
control. Matt Gordon, among others, wrote a popular
book entitled, “News Is a Weapon.” Since World War
II and the beginning of the Cold War, the amount of
writing and speaking on manipulation, distortion,
“brain washing,” and similar concepts has grown be-
yond calculation.

It is true that most of this publicity, at least in this
country, seemed to refer to Nazis, Communists, and to
“bad guys” generally. Indeed, most of this writing and
speaking, at least by implication, called attention to
the truthfulness and honesty of the United States as
contrasted to the wickedness of our opponents abroad.

This observation leads to what I believe to be the
cause of the current tempest over “news management.”
It seems to me that the nation has suffered a deeply
traumatic experience, which might be described as a
painful awakening to a situation which many believe
to be inevitable but which does violence to American
tradition, in some cases to legal precedent, and, most
important of all, to the American’s image of himself.

Three Times in Three Years

One face of this traumatic experience is the discov-
ery that his government can deliberately deceive not
only its enemies, which would be unlikely to produce
any great protest, but also the rest of the world, in-
cluding the American people. Three times in three
years the American people were plainly misled by
their own government: In 1960, when President Eisen-
hower told a whopper about Francis Powers and his
U-g; in 1961, when the government’s part in the Bay
of Pigs fiasco was misrepresented; and in 1962, during
the Cuban crisis, when the Kennedy administration
insisted that (a) Kennedy canceled a trip and returned
to Washington because he had a cold; (b) a change in
the movement of naval vessels was caused by a hurri-

SUMMER 1968

cane; and (c) there was “no information indicating
the presence of offensive weapons in Cuba,” although
the presence of such weapons had been reported to
the President six days earlier.

The other face of the traumatic experience de-
rives from the first, and consists of a confrontation
with the problem (which was there all the time),
of whether, in a Cold War situation in which any
error of procedure or negotiation might result in a
nuclear holocaust, the government is justified in any
kind of manipulation—les, distortion, censorship—
that in the judgment of the government is necessary
for the preservation of the security of the country. ‘This
is an extremely painful issue, as it involves not only
self-image, but a challenge to some of the most revered
traditions of ‘the American way’ and the democratic
system. The issue is so painful, indeed, that there isa
tendency to avoid facing it frontally and, to mix the
metaphors, push it under the rug.

Arguments For and Against

Simplified, the extreme opposing theoretical argu-
ments might be stated somewhat as follows:

Those who advocate full disclosure argue that
candor and completeness in the dissemination of in-
formation to the people, with the making of decisions
by democratic processes on the basis of an informed
electorate, is what this country is all about and one
of the main points that distinguishes it from authori-
tarian nations, Communist and other varieties. ‘The
American tradition includes such concepts as_ self-
determination of peoples, open covenants openly ar-
rived at, and the First Amendment to the Constitu-
tion, which says, in effect, that government shouldn’t
monkey around with the free flow of information. The
seriousness of the Cold War, and the threat of nuclear
death to man, woman and child in any part of the
country, according to this argument, means that it 1s
all the more important that people whose lives are at
stake be aware of what actions, negotiations, and com-
mitments, wise or foolish, are being entered into by
those who represent them. Most people grant that
secrecy and suppression are justified in time of war,
but the management of news on the excuse of hot wars
and cold wars has been going on since 1941, or 22
years, with no change in sight, so that it could very
well become a permanent fixture in American life.
Moreover, the argument goes, news is not managed to
keep real secrets from the enemy (in the cases cited
above the Russians knew the facts anyway), but to
shield government from embarrassment and opposi-
tion to any kind of Cold War gamesmanship it hap-
pens to be playing at the moment. Whether govern-
ment policy is best for the country and the security

17

 

CONGRESSMAN JOHN E. Moss (D-Calif.), chairman

of the House subcommittee on government informa-

tion, spoke at the annual SIPA convention at Wash-

ington and Lee. He cited the need for “new, clear

guidelines” in planning for the necessary controls

which must apply to news dissemination in periods
of national peacetime crisis.

of its people, the people could not possibly know, as
they lack the facts and the knowledge of government
intentions (ours and the enemy’s) upon which decis-
ions can be made.

Wartime Delicacy

The opposing theory holds, quite simply, that all
of this is sentimental nonsense, completely unrealistic
when the nation is faced by ruthless enemies who in-
dulge in every kind of deception and trick and are
quite capable of launching a brutal, annihilating sur-
prise attack at any time. We are in fact, according
to this argument, at war, and a war of such a nature
that every move is a matter of the greatest delicacy, in-
volving always the possibility of a disaster. These
moves in defense of the security of the country can-
not be made with a badly informed, emotional, and
sometimes disloyal mob kibitzing over the govern-
ment’s shoulder and showing the enemy the govern-
ment’s hand. The principle of full and fair disclosure
is all right when the nation is at peace and secure, but
sacrifices must be made when a wrong move or a badly
timed or compromising disclosure might injure the
nation’s prestige or threaten its security.

The distress caused by the new situation, I think,
has not been so much a reaction to the government’s
argument for news management as to the manner in

18

which the government has stated it. Most people, at
least those I know about, are patriotic and go along
with the government argument to a greater or less de-
gree, depending upon a variety of factors, such as
their estimate of the seriousness of the case, personal
permissiveness, and political loyalties. Among my
own students at Washington and Lee I find general
approval of the government’s manipulation of news
during the Cuban crisis and no articulate opposition
to it. Nevertheless, the real shocker for many people,
and especially for many newspapermen, was the frank
and open avowal of news management as a guiding
principle of national policy.

Spying and Lying

A brazen realpolitik on information was fore-
shadowed by the U-2 affair, in which the govern-
ment acknowledged both spying and lying, but de-
fended itself as taking the only course possible when
one is dealing with a ruthless enemy that hermetical-
ly seals off all normal and peaceful channels of in-
formation regarding its capacities and intentions. Late
last October, when criticism of news management in
the Cuban crisis began to mount, Arthur Sylvester,
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs,
framed the principle in the following words: “News
flowing from actions taken by the government is part
of the weaponry of the cold war.... In the kind of
world we live in, the generation of news by actions
taken by the government becomes one weapon in a
strained situation. The results, in my opinion, justify
the methods we used.” At the same time both the State
and Defense departments issued directives enforcing
tighter supervision of contacts of their officials with
the press.

It is of interest to note that this bold announce-
ment that the manipulation of information is standard
policy, and that ends justify the means, comes at a
time when the academic personalities, scholars and
experts of all kinds, have more important advisory and
executive positions in government than in any previ-
ous administration. Academic traditions of freedom
of knowledge and of “following the search for truth
wherever it may lead’? do not seem to have exerted
much visible influence on the government’s position
on information. We may be making progress toward
the Utopia of that darling of the intellectuals, Walter
Lippmann, who would filter information (and power)
through an elite of scholars and experts.

The doctrine that information is a weapon to be
used by government like guns, food, diplomacy,
bombs, and all other weapons in the arsenal of power
has implications beyond the scope of this brief article.
The press has been faced with a particularly acute
dilemma that has not been resolved, and may never

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

be. The press is patriotic, it is deeply involved in the
Cold War, and it dare not appear to embarrass and
sabotage the government’s security measures even if
editors here and there might disagree with certain as-
pects of policy. It wants to do the right thing, so much
so that many of the disclosures regarding our Cuban
policies and actions did not originate with the press
but rather with Republican politicians. Yet, when
President Kennedy suggested nearly two years ago,
after the Bay of Pigs, that the press adopt some form
of self-censorship in the national interest, the idea
was rejected by spokesmen for the press as incompat-
ible with the traditions of a free press. How is it pos-
sible to reconcile acquiescence to suppression and
manipulation of information with the traditional ob-
ligations of the press to disclose and inform? Is the
answer “responsible” editing? What does that mean?
How does a “responsible” editor distinguish between
what is generally harmful to the nation’s security
and what is merely embarrassing to the Administra-
tion? If the government is lying this time, how will we
know next time whether it is lying or telling the
truth?

An Unsolvable Dilemma?

These questions leave many newspapermen (and
anyone else who thinks about it) unhappy and un-
casy. The dilemma may be unsolvable if the choice
is between having a Cold War and having freedom of
information. Apparently we can’t have both. As things

now stand, the press, confronted by the openly avowed
Sylvester doctrine of news management, rejects it. Yet
there is a consensus of agreement that a certain
amount of news management was necessary and right
in connection with the October Cuban crisis. One has
a feeling that to the press what Mr. Sylvester said
wasn’t too wrong, but he shouldn’t have said it right
out loud like that. This is something like the matter
of spies; it is all right to have spies, but one should
never admit it. Some segments of the press are now
asking for “guidelines,” which I interpret to mean
that while they reject the idea of news management
as an official policy of government, they are willing to
go along, as good citizens, with management that
would have a genuine, demonstrable effect upon
the nation’s security. With covert and guerilla wars,
hot or ideological, spreading in all parts of the world,
and with the American public sharply divided on
such questions as nuclear disarmament, propaganda
policy, foreign alliances, foreign aid, and civil defense,
the guidelines will be difficult to draw and still more
difficult to abide by without continuous argument and
complaint.

Meanwhile, the State Department directive super-
vising press contacts has been withdrawn and the De-
fense directive has been somewhat relaxed; but noth-
ing has really been resolved. ‘There surely will be an-
other affair of managed news, and another furor, and
another crisis of conscience as people confront again
the effects upon communications of the nuclear age.

COCO OOOOSOOOOHO8HOOHOHO0HOOHOSTHOHHHHOHOOHOOHHOOO8HO888HEOHOHE8HEBOO68898HOH888080HHOH888688686

Hey! What’s the Big Attraction Down Below?

 

SUMMER 1968

Turn the Page and See for Yourself!

1g

 

 

Carol Hanks, of Washington University (St. Louis),
became the first girl ever to engage Washington and Lee athletes
on the varsity level when she competed in the first Spring Sports
Festival of the College Athletic Conference at the University on
May 10-11. She not only competed, she mopped up every male
opponent who dared challenge her. Her championship in the No.
3 singles and share of the No. 1 doubles crown helped her team
to an easy tennis team championship. But the fellows shouldn’t
feel too badly—she’s only rated the twelfth best woman player
in the nation.

 

She Disconcerted
Her Male
Opponents By to.

 

... fixing her hair...

 

... displaying
excellent form...

... attracting the sportswriters

  

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

W & L Host for Big Sports Weekend

OME 250 ATHLETES from the five member the winners. Sewanee placed third, Southwestern

schools of the College Athletic Conference fourth, and Centre fifth.
engaged in two-day competition in four sports In the spring sports, Washington won tro-
as part of the conference’s first Spring Sports Fes- phies in baseball, track, and tennis, while South-
tival at Washington and Lee. By winning three western took the golf title. Washington and Lee
team championships in the spring sports, Wash- was a strong runner-up in baseball, tennis, and
ington University of St. Louis narrowly edged golf, but the only league trophy the Generals
Washington and Lee in the competition for the claimed was their 1962 football crown.
“President's ‘Trophy,’ given to the member mak- Washington and Lee was host at a welcoming
ing the best all-year showing in conference sports. banquet and again at an awards banquet that
‘The Generals had 105 trophy points to 110 for followed the completion of the competition.

Left, a General baserunner 1s
thrown out at second in the cham-
pionship game with Washington.
Bottom, medalist CRAIG GOLDATE of
Southwestern leads his team to the
golf trophy with this fine recovery.
Right, pole vaulter Ep DANcy of
Washington was the winner of this
event, as well as the high jump.
Washington University took home
the 300-pound locomotive bell that
serves as the “President’s Trophy”
for overall sports supremacy.

 

SUMMER 1968 21

News of the University

A Grant from the AEC;
Promotions for Professors

GRANT OF $15,000 from the
A Atomic Energy Commission
to the Department of Physics at
Washington and Lee University
has been announced by President
Fred C. Cole.

‘The funds are to be used for the
purchase of equipment for an un-
dergraduate course in nuclear sci-
ence which Washington and Lee
will introduce in the second semes-
ter of next year, President Cole
said.

The nuclear science laboratory
is to be equipped with radiation
counting and detecting equipment,
sources of radiation for study and
experimentation, monitoring de-
vices for the safety of students and
faculty, and other related items, ac-
cording to Dr. Edward F. Turner,
head of Washington and Lee’s
physics department. Biggest single
items of equipment will be a spec-
trometer scaler and a neutron how-
itzer, Dr. ‘Turner said.

The award includes funds for
the fabrication of a two-curie plu-
tonium-beryllium neutron source.
The Atomic Energy Commission
will lend to Washington and Lee
a quantity of plutonium for use in
the source.

Dr. ‘Turner said the AEC grant
enables the department to meet a
vital need in its undergraduate
curriculum. Laboratory space for
the new equipment was provided
in the construction of Washington
and Lee’s new $1,500,000 science
facilities, but the introduction of
a course in nuclear science was de-
layed until the necessary equip-
ment became available.

22

In addition to students in the
Department of Physics, chemistry
students also will make use of the
nuclear science laboratory for study
in qualitative analysis.

Dr. ‘Turner is one of three col-
lege professors scheduled to par-
ticipate in a research program this
summer at the Savannah River
Laboratory of the U.S. Atomic En-
ergy Commission. He will spend
three months at the Aiken, S.C.,
plant of the AEC furthering atomic
research and acquiring new re-
search and teaching techniques.
‘The summer research will aid Dr.
‘Turner in establishing the nuclear
science laboratory made _ possible
through the AEC grant. The spe-
cial summer research assignment
for Dr. ‘Turner is part of a new pro-
gram sponsored by the Oak Ridge
Institute of Nuclear Studies
(ORINS). Dr. ‘Turner, Dr. Gerald
T. Cowley of the University of
South Carolina’s biology depart-
ment and Dr. Charles H. Barron,
Jv., of the department of chemical
engineering at Tulane University
are the first professors assigned to
the ORINS Research Participation
Program.

™ PROMOTIONS HAVE BEEN an-
nounced for ten members of the
Washington and Lee University
faculty.

New academic ranks for nine
men in the College were announc-
ed by Dean William W. Pusey, ITT.
One promotion in the School of
Commerce and Administration
was announced by Dean Lewis W.

 

Dr. ‘TURNER

 

PROF. DAVIS

 

Dr. SPENCER

Adams. All become effective in Sep-
tember.

Promoted from associate profes-
sor to professor are Paxton Davis,
journalism and communications;
and Dr. Edgar W. Spencer, geology,
both in the College.

Assistant professors becoming as-
sociate professors include Dr. Leon-
ard E. Jarrard, psychology; Dr. Ce-
cil D. Jones, Jr., fine arts; Maj.
George W. Miller, military science;
Richard Miller, physical educa-
tion; and Buford S. Stephenson,
German. All are in the College.

In the School of Commerce and
Administration, Dr. Charles’ F.
Phillips, Jr., is promoted from as-
sistant professor to associate pro-
fessor of economics.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

In the College, Dr. Emory Kim-
brough, Jr., becomes an assistant
professor of sociology, and_ Dr.
Odell S. McGuire, becomes an as-
sistant professor of geology.

# DR. WILLIAM G. BEAN, who retired
as head of Washington and Lee
University’s history department in
1962, has been named professor of
history, emeritus, by the Univer-
sity’s Board of ‘Trustees. A member
of the University’s faculty since
1922, Dr. Bean continued to teach
two courses during 1962-63 as Dis-
tinguished Lecturer in History.

Dr. Bean is a member of the
Virginia Civil War Centennial
Commission and a recognized au-
thority on Civil War History. He
is the author of Stonewall’s Man:
Sandie Pendleton (1959) and is cur-
rently working on a second book
about the Civil War.

= TWELVE NEW MEN will join the
faculty in September.

‘The appointments—effective Sep-
tember 1i—include eight for the
College, three for the School of
Commerce and Administration and
one for the School of Law.

Joining the College faculty as as-
sistant professors will be Dr. J.
Brown Goehring, 28, chemistry,
Dr. H. Marshall Jarratt, 33, history;
and Andre Lacerte, 34, physics.
New instructors in the College will
be James R. Baird, 31, biology;
Chaplain W. Morrison, 30, history;
Robert H. Williams, 24, fine arts;
‘Tom C. Williams, 25, German; and
W. Warren Womble, 27, romance
languages.

In the School of Commerce and
Administration, all three men will
join the department of political sci-
ence. ‘They are Dr. Edward L. Pin-
ney, 32, associate professor; Brett
W. Hawkins, 26, and Delos D.
Hughes, 28, assistant professors.

Robert K. Rushing, 32, will be
visiting associate professor of law
in the School of Law.

SUMMER 1968

a TWO UNIVERSITY economics profes-
sors have won a $1,000 award for
the best article published during
1962 in Business Horizons, a na-
tional quarterly journal.

Dr. Harmon H. Haymes and Dr.
Charles F. Phillips, Jr., both assist-
ant professors of economics, have
been named recipients of the 1962
McKinsey Foundation Award. ‘The
first-place prize was given for their
article “Psychological Price Con-
trol: Meddling or Masterstroke.”
The article, dealing with pricing
in the steel industry, is published
in the Summer issue of Business
Horizons.

m= A FUND in memory of a sopho-
more who died in a swimming ac-
cident in mid-March has been es-
tablished by the University’s chap-
ter of Kappa Alpha.

The Theodore ‘Thompson, Jr.,
Memorial Fund was set up with an
initial $600 gift from Kappa Al-
pha. ‘Thompson, a member of Kap-
pa Alpha, disappeared in the rain-
swollen Maury River near Lexing-
ton on March 13. His body was re-
covered on March 23.

The Fund will be administered
by University officials and tentative
plans call for it to be used to pro-
vide a scholarship award to a de-
serving pre-medical student at the
University. “Thompson was a _ pre-
medical major.

= DONALD H. PARTINGTON, an inter-
mediate law student from Spring-
field, Va., has been named editor-
in-chief of the Law Review for the
1963 Fall semester.

A 1961 B.A. graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee, Partington expects
to receive his LL.B. degree in June,
1964. He was a member of the 1963
moot court team.

m PHILIP D. SHARP, JR., a 22-year-old
law student from Richmond, Va.,
has been appointed chairman of
the 1964 Republican Mock Con-
vention.

Sharp, who received his B.A. de-
gree cum laude trom Washington

and Lee in 1962, will direct ac-
tivities of the mock political ses-
sions which will be held next
Spring in late April or early May.

m= TWO JUNE GRADUATES will study in
Germany next winter on Fulbright
Scholarships.

James M. Campbell from St.
Petersburg, Fla., will study at the
University of Erlange and John
F. Refo, Norfolk, Va., will study
at the University of Bonn. Camp-
bell also was awarded a Woodrow
Wilson Fellowship earlier — this
year.

m THE AMERICAN OIL FOUNDATION of
Chicago has given Washington and
Lee $5,000 in unrestricted funds.

Washington and Lee is the only
Virginia college listed for a gift
from the foundation, which is one
of three financed by Standard Oil
Company (Indiana) and its subsid-
iaries. Washington and Lee’s grant
is among 41 made by the Standard
Oil Foundation, the American
Oil Foundation and the Pan Am-
erican Petroleum Foundation to
private universities and colleges
throughout the United States. ‘Vhe
gifts total more than $500,000.

American Oil Foundation presi-
dent L. W. Moore said Washington
and Lee is one of 10 select liberal
arts colleges to be incorporated in
the three foundations’ 1963 aid
program. Each of these 10 colleges
received $5,000 based on their re-
gional importance and outstanding
educational programs.

President Cole said Washington
and Lee’s gift, the first from the
American Oil Foundation, has
been designated for the Univer-
sity’s faculty salary improvement
program.

m STUDENT BODY elections in the
spring saw the newly-formed Pro-
gressive Party take three of the
“Big Four’ offices.

William A. Noell, Jr., Sigma Al-
pha Epsilon junior of Bluefield,
W. Va., was elected president.

23

Reunion Classes

Join Law Alumni
for Big Weekend

G. Harris, ’32, center, chat with
GOVERNOR DARDEN

 

Above, CApP’N Dick SmIrH, "13, greets WIL-
LIAM M. HAmpTON, ’23, and Mrs. Hamp-
TON. Below, EVERETT W. CUMMINGS, ’23,
beams as G. M. FEAMSTER, ‘23,
makes a point.

 

  

H. GRAHAM Morison, ’32, left, and COLLAS

 

HE FRIENDSHIP and good times
were aS warm as the weather
that greeted some 247 alumni and
wives who took part in the anni-
versary class reunions and Law Day
activities on the campus, May 8-5.
For the second year, the anniver-
sary reunions were held simultan-
eously with the School of Law’s
John Randolph ‘Tucker Law Lec-
tures, and the ranks of reunion al-
umni were swelled by dozens of
lawyers who returned to hear Col-
gate W. Darden, Jr., former Vir-
ginia governor and former presi-
dent of the University of Virginia,
deliver the fifteenth of this notable
series of discourses on the law and
related topics.

Reunions were held this year for
the classes of 1913, 1923, 1938, and
1953. here were forty-one mem-
bers of the 1953 class on hand,
thirty from 1938, twenty from 1923,
and a remarkable twenty-two from
1913. Alumni Secretary William
Washburn reports there are only
forty-three graduates of the 1919

 

-

TAYLOR ‘THom, JR., CARRo“tL B. Wirtsuire, R. R. Wirt,
Lewis ‘TWyMAN, and

class living, from an original class
roll of seventy-one. The twenty-
one graduates and one non-gradu-
ate who were on campus this spring
represent an impressive attendance
achievement.

‘There was the usual program for
the reunion weekend—a reception
at the President’s House, campus
tours with special emphasis on re-
cent improvements, a general
luncheon and a report from the
various deans and student body

president, the class banquets, and

the popular get-together for all clas-
ses after the banquets. For recrea-
tion, there was a golf tournament,
a varsity baseball game, and a bus
tour to Natural Bridge.

The class banquets were the
highlights of the weekend. R. A.
“Cap’n Dick” Smith and T. R.
Bandy were masters of ceremony
at the 1913 affair; Dr. Herbert
Elias and Emmett Poindexter pre-
sided for the 1923 banquet; Sam
McChesney was in charge at the
1938 banquet; and Gray Castle di-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The class of 1913: seated, l-r, Miron K. LocKwoop, BENJAM
HENry E. PEEPLES, HENRY Scotr Yocum, JUNIUS W. PULLEY.

 

in F. Frery, Georce West DIEHL, EDwARD S. DELAPLAINE,
and T. R. Banpy. Standing, l-r, WrLLIAM A. HyMAN, W.

WitttiAmM H. Womevporr, Cart C. Moore, H. C. COFrFrey,
RICHARD A. SMITH.

rected the program for the 1953
alumni. Souvenir class booklets,
with letters from class members,
were presented to the 50th and
25th anniversary classes.

At the Saturday luncheon, Mr.
McChesney presented President
Cole with a check for $2,765, rep-
resenting the contributions of the
1938 alumni to the 1962-63 Alum-
ni Fund. Since that date, this fig-
ure has risen to $3,275.

The Law School Association held
its annual meeting on Saturday af-
ternoon and elected H. Graham
Morison, 732, of Washington,

Re

president for 1963-64. John R..

Tucker, Jr., °48, of Richmond, was
elected vice-president, and Robert
E. R. Huntley, 57, was re-elected
secretary-treasurer. Named to the
association council were Amos A.
Bolen, 37, of Huntington, W. Va.;
T. B. Bryant, Jr., 28, of Orange-
burg, $.C.; and Waldo G. Miles,
28, of Bristol, Va.

The Association adopted resolu-
tions congratulating Lewis F. Pow-

SUMMER 19638

ell, Jr., °91, upon his selection as
president-elect designate of the
American Bar Association, and
Judge Charles L. Terry, Jr., "29,
upon his appointment as chief jus-
tice of the Supreme Court of Dela-
ware.

Governor Darden’s “Tucker lec-
tures dealt with “Random
Thoughts on Government” with
emphasis on the continuing inroads
of the federal government on state
responsibility. He reviewed thor-
oughly the historical backgrounds
and constitutional foundations of
federal-state relationships.

In his introduction of Governor
Darden, President Cole delighted
both Darden and alumni when he
observed that the governor had per-
formed such a good job as presi-
dent of the University of Virginia
that the Board of Visitors had
found it necessary to replace him
with a Washington and Lee man
(Dr. Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., °39)
when he retired, in order that the
good work continue.

    

 

Top, l-r, CALVERT ‘THOMAS, ’38, ROBERT FE.
SURLES, “38, and FRANK W. Comer, ’38. Be-
low. JOHN I. BowMAN, ’53, left, and JOHN
D. HEARD, 53, with EVANS HAMM, ’53,
behind HEARD.

   

RocER B. JONES, °23, and DEAN LIGHT.

ELiis “SprkE’” SCHULIST, 53, has a laugh
with KrirH NELSON, ’53.

 

 

A New Catalog

ASHINGTON AND LEE’S catalogue
WX) issue for 1963-64 is a_vast-
ly different and—hopefully—a_bet-
ter bulletin than any _ previously
published by the University.

Prospective students, undergrad-
uates, professors, and deans who
use the book are finding it a bigger,
heftier volume than before, and its
editors hope that users are also find-
ing it more attractive, easier to
read, and generally more useful as
a source of information about the
University and its academic pro-
orams.

‘The new volume was first dis-
tributed to faculty and students on
April 30, and the general response
was one of pleasant surprise at the

26

catalogue’s “new look.’ Even the
Ring-tum Phi was moved to com-
ment editorially on the merits of
the revisions. Characteristic of any
major job of re-editing, some errors
have subsequently been detected,
but by and large, they have been
few and of minor importance.
‘The new changes constitute the
first major revision and redesign of
the catalogue in this century. ‘The
book has changed considerably
since the early igoo’s, but the
changes have been gradual. The
most recent modifications took
place in 1954 when the traditional
gray cover was replaced in subse-
quent issues by various shades of
solid blue. Also in 1954, limited

Redesigned and Substantially
Revised, the University’s New
Catalogue Issue Is Bigger and
Better As a Promotional Piece

For Prospective Students and

As a Handbook for

Current Ones

uc

typographical changes were intro-
duced, along with the addition of a
small number of photographs, but
essentially, the catalogue has _ re-
mained the same in format and
size.

Virtually everyone at the Uni-
versity, including President Cole
and the various deans, agreed that
a revision and redesign of the cata-
logue was in order.

Although the content and the
organization of the catalogue has
been revised somewhat, the major
changes in the the 1963-64 edition
involve the physical appearance of
the book.

The dimensions of the new cata-
logue are 6 7/8 by nine inches, as

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

One of seven tinted “divider” pages sepa-
rating major sections.

The photographic cover of the new catalogue contrasts sharply with the solid
blue and white cover of the volume formerly in use.

 

Corresponding pages from the new and
old catalogues suggest the greater legibilt-

 

 

 

COURSES OF INSTRUCTION 231

SOCIOLOGY 203 (3) D — Social Institutions
MR. KIMBROUGH
Prerequisite: Junior standing.
The fundamental institutions of all societies — family, economic, governmental, and
religious; complex organizations of today. A comparative, analytical, and critical study.

SOCIOLOGY 204 (3) B — Africa South of the Sahara
PROFESSOR LEYBURN
Prerequisite: Junior standing.
Tribal life and institutions; the effects of contact between European and African cul-
tures; new African states and their resources and leadership.

SOCIOLOGY 205 (3) E — Religion and Society
PROFESSOR LEYBURN
Prerequisite: Junior standing.
The anthropology and sociology of religion: an investigation of the varieties of religious

belief and practice; theories of the origin of religion; religious institutions and their effect

upon the individual and society.

SOCIOLOGY 206 (3) D — Population
MR. KIMBROUGH
Prerequisite: Junior standing.
The relationship between numbers of people and their environment; social effects of
increasing numbers.

SOCIOLOGY 207 (3) F — Cultural and Social Change
PROFESSOR LEYBURN
Prerequisite: Junior standing.
An analysis of the manner in which ideas (convictions of right and wrong, beliefs, atti-
tudes) change; the conditions which encourage and deter change; the social results of
rapid change.

SOCIOLOGY 208 (3) C — Race
MR. KIMBROUGH
Prerequisite: Junior standing.

The evolution of mankind and the differentiation of races; examination of racial
theories; race in the contemporary world.

SOCIOLOGY 210 (3) B — Structural Linguistics
PROFESSOR BARRITT
Prerequisite: Junior standing.

A course concerning the nature of language, the elements of which it is composed,
how it may be analyzed on the levels of sound, grammar, and meaning. The emphasis will
be on a general study of language as man’s principal symbolic activity, but examples
from specific languages will be used as objects of study and investigation, ;

 

SUMMER 1968

ty of the newer volume.

 

 

COURSES OF INSTRUCTION 225

Sociology 206 (3) D—Population. Professor Kimbrough.
Prerequisite—Junior standing. : .

The relationship between numbers of people and their environment ;
social effects of increasing numbers.

[Sociology 207 (3)—Comparative Cultures.] Professor Leyburn.
Prerequisite—Junior standing. .

An anthropological investigation of primitive societies, their variety,
their culture and social institutions, their borrowings from other people.
[Sociology 208 (3)—Race.] Professor Kimbrough.
Prerequisite—J unior standing.

The evolution of mankind and the differentiation of races; exami-
nation of racial theories: race in the contemporary world.
Sociology 209 (3) E—Society and Thought in America. Profes-

sor Fishwick.
Prerequisite—Junior standing. .

The major concepts of American life and culture as revealed in
contemporary American society; the growth of democratic thought,
technology, and institutional patterns; case studies in selected Amer-
ican personalities; and examination of the forces underlying American
civilization. (Formerly Sociology 201
Sociology 210 (3) B—Structural Linguistics. Professor Barritt.

(1962-6

Prerequisite—Junior standing.
A course concerning the nature of language, the elements of which
it is composed, how it may be analyzed on the levels of sound, gram-
mar, and meaning. The emphasis will be on a general study of
language as man’s principal symbolic activity, but examples from
specific languages will be used as objects of study and investigation.
Sociology 251-2 (6) KMO (Monday)—Sociological Theory. Pro-
fessor Kimbrough.

Prerequisites—Senior standing and Sociology 102. (After 1962-63,
the prerequisites will be Senior standing and Sociology 102, 201,
203

Tirst semester: the intellectual antecedents of modern sociological
theory. Second semester: contemporary social theory.
[Sociology 253 (3)—Cultural Change.] Professors Leyburn,
Kimbrough.
Prerequisites—Limited to majors and to seniors after Sociology 101,
102 » 203,

An analysis of the manner in which ideas (convictions of right and
wrong, beliefs, attitudes) change; the conditions which encourage
and deter change; the social results of rapid change. Seminar.
[Sociology 275 .(3)—Methods in Sociology.] Professor Kim-

brough

rough.
Prerequisites—Senior standing; limited to majors and to others by
special permission.
The rationale and utility of research; its relation to theory ; design
and methods of sociological research.
{Sociology 296. (3)—Senior Thesis (Honors).1]

 

 

contrasted with 5 1/4 by 7 5/8
inches of the older version. A more
attractive grade of paper and the
addition of forty pages of new ma-
terial and photographs make the
new volume nearly twice as thick
as previous University catalogues.
A complete restyling of the ty-
pography makes the volume far
easier to read or scan. Previous
Issues were printed by the letter-
press method, and the type was
kept “standing” from year to year
and used over and over. As changes
and corrections were added to the
standing type, the new lines tended
to stand out unattractively from the
battered older type. Moreover, in
many instances new material would
be crowded onto a page in an at-
tempt to place it where it belonged,
or else 1t would be added where it
would fit conveniently, rather than
where it should go for proper un-
derstanding and convenient use.
‘The general cumulative effect of
years of this was undesirable.

‘The new catalogue also makes ex-
tensive use of some fifty current
photographs which now appear
throughout the book in appropriate
juxtaposition to the descriptive
written material. In previous
books, only four photographs were
used, and the mechanics of the
printing process determined their
location in the volume.

Replacing the solid blue cover is
a photographic cover, a view of the
Colonnade on the front and an
aerial view of the campus on the
back. Phe official title, Washing-
ton and Lee Bulletin, and the date
appear at the bottom of the front
cover, while the word “Catalogue”
is embossed vertically in white be-
side the cover picture, which is
printed in blue ‘“duotone.”

‘The printing process for the new
edition is lithography, or offset,
which permits great flexibility in
design and use of photographs
throughout the book. The printer
is Whittet and Shepperson of Rich-

28

mond, a company that has handled
numerous other printing assign-
ments for the University.

In revising and reorganizing the
content of the catalogue, the edi-
tors attempted to make the book
more useful for the prospective
student. Existing material relative
to admissions procedure and ex-
penses has been combined with
descriptive material dealing with
the general academic program, stu-
dent life, and the University’s his-
tory into a front section of the
catalogue entitled “Information for
the Prospective Student.”

Editors also attempted to sepa-
rate descriptive material from the
rather formally stated rules and
regulations that are a necessary part
of the catalogue.

New features of the catalogue
include a “Correspondence Direc-
tory” which suggests various offices
within the University where pros-
pective students or other interested
persons can write for additional in-
formation.

There is a table of contents, de-
noting the seven major sections
into which the new book is or-
ganized. Each section is separated
by a blue tinted divider page which
lists a sub-table of contents for that
section. The major sections and
principal subdivisions are:

Information for the Prospective
Student—Some Purposes of a Good
College, The Growth of Two Cen-
turies, the University ‘Today, The
Academic Program, Student Life,
Admissions Procedure and Entrance
Requirements, Expenses for the
1964 Freshman, and Financial Aid
and Scholarships.

Rules and Regulations—Expens-
es, Degree Requirements, Regis-
tration, Academic Regulations,
Student Activities, etc.

The College—general and speci-
fic information for students wish-
ing to concentrate in degree pro-
grams in the liberal arts and sci-
ences and some social sciences.

The School of Commerce and
Administration—general and speci-
fic information for students seeking
preparation for business careers and
bachelor degrees in commerce, eco-
nomics, or political science.

Courses of Instruction—detailed
listing of courses offered in the var-
ious departments of the College
and the School of Commerce and
Administration.

‘The School of Law—general and
specific information for prospective
law students.

General Information and Mat-
ters of Record—the customary list-
ing of trustees, administrators,
faculty, committees, and staff, along
with the final record for the pre-
vious year and the register of stu-
dents. Also in this section are re-
corded the University’s benefac-
tions and endowed scholarships.

‘The process of reorganizing cat-
alogue material and resetting the
book in clean, new type brought
interesting reactions from many
members of the University’s facul-
ty and staff. When various deans
and department heads were asked
to read proof of their sections in
the new, improved typography,
many found occasion to question
or change wording and sequence
that had been accepted and unchal-
lenged for years.

University officials hope that the
result of the catalogue revision will
be the publication of a volume that
Washington and Lee will be proud
to place in the hands of prospec-
tive students and guidance counsel-
lors. Washington and Lee, like
many other good colleges and uni-
versities, recognizes that its cata-
logue is its principal means of rep-
resenting the University to thous-
ands of prospective students and
their parents, and to many other
persons as well. ‘There is a trend
among colleges today toward mak-
ing catalogues serve a_ valuable
public relations function as well as
the traditional utilitarian purpose.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

RESHMEN ENTERING Washington
F and Lee in September, 1963,
will have greater flexibility in
choosing the courses they will study
during their first year in college.

The University faculty has ap-
proved a change in the curriculum
for the freshman year which will
permit a freshman to select one
course normally taught at the
sophomore level.

If a student chooses to take a
sophomore course, he then post-
pones taking one of the courses
normally prescribed under the tra-
ditional freshman curriculum. He
must take the deferred course dur-
ing his sophomore year, however.

Purpose of the new freshman
program is to offer entering stu-
dents an opportunity to encounter
new academic disciplines that are
normally absent from secondary
school curricula. Among sopho-
more courses that 1963 freshmen
may choose from are economics,
fine arts, history, philosophy, polit-
ical science, psychology, religion,
and sociology. ‘The course chosen
must satisfy one of the so-called dis-
tribution requirements for the gen-
cral A.B. or B.S. degrees.

‘The usual freshman curriculum
is largely a continuation of work
that has been introduced at the
high school level. For graduation, a
Washington and Lee _ freshman
normally must have six semester
hours of first-year English, six
hours of first-year history, six hours
of a foreign language, eight hours
in natural science, and six hours of
mathematics or six hours of Greek
or Latin.

The University conducts place-
ment tests in English, history,
mathematics, and foreign languag-
es to help match student capabili-
ties with courses of proper chal-
lenge and _ difficulty. Increasing
numbers of students are entering as

participants in the College En-
trance Examination Board’s Ad-
vanced Placement program, in
which case they may apply for
placement in advanced college
courses and for college credit for
college-level work completed in sec-
ondary school.

All freshmen must take physical
education, a course that cannot be
deferred. The ROTC course in
military science is optional.

A More
Flex'ble

Freshman
Year

University officials hope the in-
troduction of greater flexibility 1n-
to the freshman year will be a bene-
ficial challenge for those students
who exercise the option to take a
sophomore course.

‘The new plan places an added
responsibility upon the freshman’s
faculty adviser who must counsel
the student in making a wise selec-
tion of the optional course, as well
as a wise selection in the freshman
course which is to be deferred for
a year.

The flexible freshman year is a
development growing out of a two
and a half-year study of the gener-
al A.B. curriculum by a faculty
committee headed by the Dean of
the College William W. Pusey, III.
Faculty approval of the freshman
plan came after the Curriculum

Committee formulated the pro-
eram and recommended it to the
general faculty.

‘The general appraisal of the un-
dergraduate curriculum was begun
in the spring of 1960 and continued
throughout 1960-61 and 1961-62
and into 1962-63.

In addition to
committee meetings in which the
curriculum was discussed, several
special faculty meetings were called
in 1962 to consider special ques-
tions posed by the study group.
While these sessions of open de-
bate often brought forth view-
points of sharp difference, they did
serve to emphasize that the current
curriculum at Washington and Lee
is essentially sound. The discussions
also suggested that changes will be
made in the University’s academic
program only after the most inten-
sive and thoughtful examination
by a faculty of competent academ-
icians.

President Cole spoke of the cur-
riculum study in his Founders’ Day
report in January:

many weekly

“Universities like this one wisely
move slowly and deliberately in
changing curricula; good programs
should not be abolished or modi-
fied significantly without assurance
that the changes or substitutions
are indeed better for the students
than what was offered before. Cur-
ricula and course offerings are not
improved solely by additions and
rearrangements, but improvements
can be and are being made within
the existing offerings. Great
breadth and depth is being achiev-
ed within courses while new cours-
es are being added. I am personal-
ly much heartened and impressed
by the intensive study that is being
given to the curricula and I believe
that all of us will take pride in the
results of the work that is being
done by the faculty in this regard.”

 

SUMMER 1963

 

The Alumni Fund Is

Over the ‘Lop for 1963!

OR ONLY THE SECOND TIME In its
k thirty-year history, the Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni Fund has
surpassed the annual goal estab-
lished by the Alumni Fund Coun-
cil.

As of June 15, a total of 3,662
contributors had contributed $128,-
502.86 through the Fund toward
the support and future progress of
their University. “The announced
goal for the year was $115,000.

Both totals represent all-time rec-
ords. ‘Che largest previous number
of contributors was recorded in
1958, when 3,378 individuals made
gifts totaling $113,681.79—also the
previous high dollar total, but one
which included some $14,000 ear-
marked as a scholarship memorial
for retiring alumni secretary Harry
K. “Cy” Young.

‘The 1962-63 campaign was con-
sidered by the Alumni Fund Coun-
cil to be its first ‘full-scale’ solici-
tation of alumni since the 1958-60
University Development Program.

‘The increase of the 1962-63 Fund
over that of the previous year is
dramatic. Last year, 2,607 alumni
gave $84,298.84 to the Fund, short
of the goal of $100,000.

With two weeks to go until the
end of the Fund’s fiscal year, as of
this writing, there is a strong likeli-
hood that the Fund total will swell
even higher, possibly closer to the
$140,000 figure.

Executive Secretary William
Washburn, who has carried out the
Fund program devised by Donald
M. Fergusson’s Alumni Fund Coun-
cil, attributes the success of the cur-
rent Fund to “happy combination

30

of many positive activities and the
willing support of several hundred
alumni workers.”

He singled out for praise ninety-
three class agents, the 101 regional
agents, and a “small army” of other
regional workers who made the per-
sonal contacts with the 10,817 for-
mer students who were invited to
support the Alumni Fund. He also
praised the leadership of the Alum-
ni Fund Council, and the support
and cooperation of the University
administration and staff.

A key factor in the success of the
Fund was the Council’s decision to
send to each contributor a hand-
forged nail, mounted as a desk piece
in plastic, that was used in the orig-
inal construction of Lee Chapel.
The Council sought to emphasize
the fact that the memento was not

so much a reward for giving to the
Fund but, rather, a symbol of the
support of many individual alumni
who help shape the future of the
University through their continued
interest and active support.

“We've gotten many, many Ilet-
ters from alumni, thanking the As-
sociation for making this kind of
souvenir available,’ Mr. Washburn
pointed out. “It’s apparent that
these desk pieces will be a treasured
possession of many of our alumni.
We hope it will be a constant re-
minder to them of the important
part in the University’s future they
continue to play as Washington
and Lee men.”

Mr. Washburn said that a full re-
port of the 1962-63 Alumni Fund
will probably be carried in the Fall
issue of the Alumni Magazine.

 

Alumni Secretary WILLIAM WASHBURN watches Mrs. LEON SENSABAUGH, fund secretary,
enter the contribution that advanced the 1963 campaign over the 1962-63 goal of $115,000.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Outgoing President RopNEY M. Cook, ’46, second from left, of Atlanta, congratulates the new Alumni Association president, DR. JOHN
D. BATILe, JR., '34, of Cleveland, while new Vice-President. 1. B. BRYANT, J[R., (28, left, of Orangeburg, S.C. and Treasurer W..W.
Wispom, ‘21, of New Orleans, look on,

The Association’s Annual Meeting

Discusses Possibility of New Directory

LANS FOR THE COMPILATION of a
Pp new alumni directory for Wash-
ington and Lee, the possibility of
an Alumni House, and the future
of alumni reunions were among
items on the agenda for the Alumni
Board of ‘Trustees when it met on
June 6 in regular session.

In other business, the Board
elected, Dr. John D.. Battle, [r., 797,
of Cleveland, head of the Hemo-
tology Department at the Cleveland
Clinic; to. succeed’ Rodney 'M:
Cook, ’46, as president for 1963-64.

Also elected for next year were
Vice-President TI’. B.. Bryant, _Jr.,
28, Orangeburg, S. C., attorney,
and ‘Treasurer W. W. Wisdom, ’21,
New Orleans real estate and busi-
ness executive.

SUMMER 1963

Prior to the Board meeting, the
annual general meeting of the As-
sociation was conducted by Presi-
dent Cook, who presented his an-
nual report (see page 36). ‘The re-
port of the Executive Secretary (see
page 32) also was read at the meet-
ing, as was the preliminary report
of Treasurer E. Alton Sartor, ’38.

‘The general session elected three
new members to the Alumni Board.
They are Robert A. Fulwiler, Jr.,
'25, Of Wilmington, Del., who was
present at the meeting; H. ‘Tyndall
Dickinson, ’39, of Little Rock, Ark.;
and ‘Thomas W. Moses, ’39, of Min-
neapolis, Minn. They will serve
three-year terms.

Elected to a two-year term on
the University Committee for In-

tercollegiate Athletics was S. L. Ko-
pald, Jr., 43, of Memphis, ‘Tenn.
Members of the Alumni Board
whose terms expire this year in-
clude President Cook, James B.
Martin, ’31, of Gloucester, Va., and
Andrew H. Bauer, ’37, of St. Louis.
Before taking on its regular agen-
da, the Alumni Board heard a com-
prehensive report from President
Cole on current developments at
the University, including a discus-
sion of plans for the future use of
Reid Hall for the Department of
Journalism and Communications.
Later, the Board passed a reso-
lution which cited the traditional
support of a strong faculty through
application of Alumni Fund _ in-
come, but also recommended that

41

some aspect of the 1963-64 fund be
considered to assist the University
with the Reid Hall renovation.

The Board gave its approval to
the proposed alumni directory pro-
ject and requested the executive
secretary to proceed with investi-
gation and negotiations. ‘The Board
also requested that the new presi-
dent appoint a committee to dis-
cuss the matter of an Alumni House
with University officials. ‘The Pres-
ident also is to appoint a commit-
tee to make a thorough study of
reunion planning and programs
with an eye toward realizing larger
attendance.

The Board noted the outstanding
response of alumni to the oppor-
tunity to acquire the mounted Lee
Chapel nail which was made avail-
able through the Alumni Fund
this year. A resolution from the
Board commended the Alumni
Fund Council under Donald H.
Fergusson, ’51, for its conduct of
the successful 1962-63 fund cam-
paign. |

Nine of the twelve members of
the Alumni Board were present for
the meeting.

Pictured below are the three new
members of the Alumni Board of
Trustees elected at the June
meeting.

 

H. TyNnbDALL DICKINSON

From William C. Washburn

The Annual Statement
Of the Executive Secretary

AST YEAR at this meeting, I sug-
le gested that in reporting any
organizational year it was often
necessary to mention a discourag-
ing facet, and that the secretary
always likes to get over that spot in
the first part of the report. Last, year
you will remember I mentioned
this in connection with the Alumni
Fund and the fact that we had not
reached our goals. ‘The absolute
reverse 1s the case today. ‘The 1962-
63 Alumni Fund is no rough spot
at all—indeed it is the shining light
of success and it is with a great deal
of pleasure that I can report this
to you today.

Let me say at the very outset that
every bit of the credit for the suc-
cess of the Alumni Fund drive this
year is due to the splendid cooper-
ation on the part of the adminis-
tration, from President Cole on
down to the Alumni Board of ‘Trus-
tees, the Alumni Fund Council,
the faculty, and most especially the

 

THomas W. Moses

ninety-three class agents and over
one hundred regional agents who
made up the organization this year.
1 cannot emphasize enough their
important role in this year’s success,
nor can I fully express on behalf of
the entire Alumni Association our
very deep appreciation and praise.

The Alumni Fund Council went
to work shortly after this same As-
sociation meeting last June. It met
several times during the summer
under the chairmanship of Don
Fergusson and a program was es-
tablished in which all of us placed
great hopes. ‘The Council set goals
of $115,000 for the dollar volume
and a total of one hundred per cent
participation in contributors. ‘This
may seem unrealistic—that is, the
one hundred per cent  participa-
tion—and yet, it is indeed the goal
for every Alumni Fund drive.

I wonder if any of you have any
idea of the amount of preparation

 

Rospert A. FULWILER, Jr.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

that is necessary to get this sort of
campaign rolling. We began in
the early summer to solicit our
class agents; preparation of the
printed material had to be accom-
plished. I might pause here to pay
a special thanks to President Cole
who is responsible for the kickoff
of the Alumni Fund campaign this
year with his personal letter to each
alumnus, which was so well re-
ceived. The Alumni Fund Council
met several more times during the
fall and with commendable imagi-
nat‘on hit upon the idea of putting
an original Lee Chapel nail into
some sort of a memento or souvenir

The Alumni Association
was host to the seniors at
the annual smorgasbord,
held this year in Evans
Hall after the Natural
Bridge Hotel, the usual
scene of the affair, was
damaged by fire in
mid-A pril.

for each contributing alumnus.
This proved to be a very fine idea.
I only wish it were possible for me
to read some of the splendid letters
which have been received in con-
nection with the Lee Chapel nail
project. It has made a tremendous
impression upon those who have
received it.

I could go on at length explain-
ing the intricate details of the fund
campaign, but I think you are par-
ticularly interested in the results.
As of June ist—and I remind you
that the fiscal year does not end un-
til June goth—the Alumni Fund
campaign has accumulated $124,620
from 3,500 contributors. ‘This is an

SUMMER 1963

all-time record in terms of dollar
volume and it is also a record in
terms of number of contributors.
Let me hasten to explain that in
the year just prior to the Develop-
ment Campaign, the Fund year of
1957-58, a total of nearly $100,000
was received from 3,378 contribu-
tors. ‘That number of contributors
amounted to 35.3 per cent partici-
pation. ‘This year, we solicited 10,-
817 alumni and the June 1st total
of 3,500 is therefore a 32 per cent
participation. This does not quite
reach the 35.3 per cent participa-
tion in the previous high, although
it does actually mean more con-

tributors. We need to get some
39g more contributors to the fund
in order to pass our previous per-
centage record.

If you will consider this just a
moment, and I shall not labor the
point, I only wish to report that
while this participation of roughly
35.3 per cent is above average for
all colleges, it is not in the area in
which Washington and Lee should
be. Other colleges and universities
of our quality are getting much
higher percentages of participation.
It is my thought that this is our real
challenge in the future. We must
find means of reaching more alum-
ni and securing their active and

participating support. Undoubtedly
our next year’s goals will be raised.
I hope so, for this is the only way
to really make progress. I am con-
fident that Washington and Lee
men will measure up to the task.
Now let me pass to some of the
other aspects of the Alumni Asso-
ciation work. Those of you who
are here today can look around you
with pride at the evidence of
growth and progress on the campus.
We have tried to give a representa-
tive picture of this development
through the Alumni Magazine. ‘The
new buildings are impressive addi-
tions to the University and along

 

with them have grown the instruc-
tional programs for the students.
Without fail, the alumni who in-
spect these facilities and take a hard
look at today’s academic programs
are amazed at the progress which
is being made. ‘The new buildings,
the new dormitories, the new in-
firmary, the new academic pro-
erams, the new research grants—all
of these things should be a source
of great pride to every alumnus.

I am happy to report that we
seem to be in a very healthy posi-
tion organizationally. This year we
have chartered two new chapters,
one in Little Rock, Arkansas, and
the other in West Virginia around

33

 

the Fayetteville area. We now have
a total of forty-one chapters. In the
planning stage right now are new
chapters in the Pensacola and Mo-
bile areas. I have recently received
an inquiry about the formation of
a chapter in the Phoenix, Arizona,
area. All of these chapters show
evidence of new strength and in-
terest. Quite naturally some of these
meet more often than others, and
yet, each one of these has a meet-
ing at least once during the year.

It has been my pleasure to per-
sonally visit twenty different chap-
ters this year. I have been to more
meetings than this, but I am speak-
ing now of twenty different chap-
ters. In addition, we have an in-
creasing number of occasions where
our faculty and administration are
getting out among the alumni
chapters, and here again I am in-
debted to President Cole and the
administration. President Cole has
visited a number of chapters. Dean
Light has been to many, and in ad-
dition has met with alumni on the
occasion of several of the State Bar
Association meetings. I have visited
chapters with Dr. Edward F. Turn-

 

Alumni fathers on hand to see their sons
JR.), JOHN M. GRAHAM, JR., ’35 (J. M. IIT),

(P. I. JR.), JoHn A. CuLLey, ’33 (JOHN O.)
(F. O. Jr.). Alumni fathers not in the picture included D. AL

34

er and Dr. Wise this year and prac-
tically the whole coaching staff was
present at one of the New York
meetings. I am trying here to sug-
gest that there happily seems to be
a new vigor among chapters and a
new interest on the part of the fac-
ulty and administration to visit
these various places. In none of this
have I included the different areas
that the Admissions Office covers.
While on this subject, I might
mention one caution which I have
in this matter. I think it must be
obvious that the Association could
not afford, not only in terms of
money but in terms of time and per-
sonnel and talent, to send a rep-
resentative to every chapter that
has a meeting during the year.
Quite naturally the Alumni Asso-
ciation is interested in having peo-
ple from the University visit their
chapter meetings. At the same time
it would be, in my opinion, almost
impossible that some one would be
at each one of these chapters each
year. What we are trying to do is
get around to every one in the best
way possible. In my opinion, there
should be a concerted effort on

graduate included, l-r, THomMAs W. HANCcock, 32 (STEPHEN D.

CHESTER P. WHITE, ’38 (C. P. JRr.), RICHARD T. Epwarps, "99
, ALBERT M. FOWLER,

the part of the chapters to continue
their active program, although it
may not be possible for a Univer-
sity representative to get to them
each year. This can be done by uti-
lization of their own talent and
personnel within their own chapter.
Let me assure you, however, that
where it is at all possible the Uni-
versity and the Alumni Association
will remain eager to help.

Our Alumni Magazine continues
to be our best channel of commun-
ication from the University to its
alumni. This magazine is sent
quarterly to a mailing list of ap-
proximately 11,200, including some
160 overseas, all with the hope of
keeping you informed with the
news and affairs of the University,
as well as those of your classmates
and college friends. I might add
that this magazine goes to you and
all alumni free of charge. This year,
we put out exceptionally large mag-
azines. We had three 48 page issues
and one 32 page issue.

In the realm of office records you
may be interested to know that we
maintain records and jacket files on
some 12,500 alumni. Of these, 7,300

 

), THomas E. Sparks, 35 (T. E.
(R. ‘T. TID), THomas T. Moore, ’26

34 (JOHN M.), Joun H. Cooke, ’34 (JON A.), and FRANK O. Evans, ’30
LEN PENICK, ’30, WILMoT L. Harris, ’28, and SHERWOOD W. WISE,

"92,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

alumni have returned occupational
questionnaires, and all of this in-
formation has been punched into
IBM cards and records. We are now
able to formulate studies and pro-
ceed with projects that will be of
much interest to the University and
the alumni.

Very definite consideration will
be given during this next year to
the publishing of a new, updated
alumni directory. A target date for
this project is uncertain, as is final
board approval, but with the infor-
mation that we now have and with
support of the IBM installation, the
compiling of a directory is more
feasible now than at any time in the
past. ‘he occupational file is prov-
ing helpful. We all realize that it
must be kept up-to-date and some
system must be arranged to check
periodically on this matter.

While thinking about future pro-
jects for this next year, I know all
of; you: are.. daterested .1n what
thoughts are being given to an
alumni house or an alumni hall.
Your board of directors has not
been unmindful of the need or the
desirability of an alumni house.

They have been working actively
with University officials. It is their
hope, and I am sure yours, that
some definite progress might be
made on this matter this next year.

There are many other facets to
alumni work. I will not take time
to elaborate on them here but they
do deserve mention. Our student-
relations work continues. ‘The
Alumni Association participates in
the Freshman Camp, in order to
acquaint new students with the
work of the Alumni Association.
Again, through the good use of
IBM equipment, we are able to
serve fraternities with better and
faster records and this is making
for a closer cooperation. ‘The Sen-
ior Banquet given each year for
the graduating class was held in our
own Evans Dining Hall this year
and met with great success. Home-
comings and anniversary class re-
reunions continue to be_ well-
attended. ‘This past month we had
reunions of four classes in conjunc-
tion with Law Day and the John
Randolph ‘Tucker Law Lectures.
There is possibly some other better
timing for reunions and I think I

can assure you that your Alumni
Board and the administration are
constantly studying and reviewing
ways and means to improve this
aspect of alumni work.

In closing, let me say that I have
enjoyed this past year as secretary.
I suppose my greatest thrill has
been the success of the Alumni
Fund. I wish to repeat that your
Association is healthy and is grow-
ing but I think all of us realize that
we have only scratched the surface.
There is much more that we should
be doing and that we very definitely
can do. This is a growing, expand-
ing University. Our Alumni Asso-
ciation must continue to grow and
keep pace.

I want to express my _ thanks
again to President Cole and _ all
University officials and faculty; to
the Alumni Board; the Fund Coun-
cil; the absolute army of workers
in the regional and class agent pro-
grams; and to many others—all of
whom have given unselfishly of
their time, effort, and talents. And
finally to my office staff, which is
truly the backbone of your Asso-
ciation, my sincere thanks.

 

Other alumni fathers and sons included, l-r, HERBERT G. J

Morrison, ’25 (J. Hormes), SAMUEL A. BLocn, ’28 (S. A. JR.), JOHN G. McGIFFIN, JR., ’26 (J. G. IT), RucELEy P. DEVAN, Jr., ’34 (R. P.

II), LANDon V. Butter, ’37 (L. V. Jr.), Jutrus E. Garber, ’36 (RONALD L.), BEVERLEY H. SMITH, ’32 (NICHOLAS S.), Morris W. ADELSON,
’32, (ANDREW E.), and WILLIAM P. KNIGHT, ’28 (HENRY H.).

SUMMER 1968

CKE, 30 (H. G. JR.), ALEXANDER L. ROBERSON, JR. ’30 (BRUCE H.), JOHN C.

35

President Rodney Cook’s Report

The Growth of New
Chapters, Success

of the Fund Mark
A Memorable Year

IXTEEN years ago this commence-
ment, I was graduated from
this great institution. Through
these years, Washington and Lee
has been the _ personification of
beauty, dignity, wisdom, intellect,
grace and love. You have given me
the opportunity of serving our Uni-
versity as its Alumni President and
for this | am very grateful. It has
been an outstanding honor for me
and one I shall always look back
upon with great affection.

The year 1962-63 has been a good
one for our University and an his-
torical one. We have passed the
dollar volume goal for the Alumni
Fund only for the second time in
our history. It is our largest fund
per se. ‘he largest fund in the past
was slightly over $100,0o00o—our
grand total this year, as of today, is
$125,000. This is a great improve-
ment but still is far below what our
University needs and far below
what our alumni should be giving.

Now our percentage of alumni
who give, however, is still very low.
We need to continue to work hard
on the participation of every alum-
nus and it is important that we
hammer home the point that each
of us must give in proportion to
our ability, but, by all means, we

36

all must give something and give
it each year. This is most important
to the growth and development of
our school. Every man who _ has
been to Washington and Lee owes
this University a great debt. Con-
tributing to the Alumni Fund must
be one of the ways that we can re-
pay this debt.

Also in the year 1962-63, we have
added two new chapters—in Little
Rock, Arkansas, and in Fayetteville,
West Virginia. There are 135 mem-
bers in the Little Rock Chapter
and 67 in Fayetteville. All of us
know the importance of active
chapters. ‘They are the backbone
of our University. So let me urge
here that we continue to stay active
in these groups and do our best in
encouraging their growth. It is the
camaraderie that is established in
all our chapters that binds us closer
together and in turn keeps us close
to our University.

There are three things I would
like to mention to you today before
adjourning—all of which will be
considered this afternoon by your
Board of Trustees and on which
you will receive a full report.

1. The question of an Alumni
House. Many alumni have urged
that definite steps be taken toward

 

that goal. Many things must be con-
sidered here, and one, for example,
is what of Col Alto? What are the

possibilities there as an Alumni
House? ‘This is an important matter
and one concerning which we
would welcome your thoughts.

2. The question of reunions and
the best time to have them. How
can we improve them and how can
we increase attendance? And how
can we go about increasing attend-
ance at the General Meetings?

3. Then finally, the question of a
new Alumni Directory. The last di-
rectory was published in 1949. This
is certainly something that needs
attention and we are anxious to see
a new one put out. Some investiga-
tions have been made already and
I would hope you may expect a
new directory shortly.

These are the primary things
which will be considered in the
Board meeting this afternoon, and
we would appreciate any comments
or suggestions from all alumni.

May I express my appreciation
to each of you and also to the new
members of the Board of ‘Trustees.
It has been a privilege to serve with
such a group of devoted alumni.
‘Thank you very much.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
OPERATING STATEMENT

All items of income and expenditures in this statement, except uncollected pledges, were
taken into the accounts of the Treasurer.

ne
For the Year Ended June 30, 1963
|
|
|
INCOME:
ATUL, FA ON ieee enns un cea st hentge ndgbvehouse gets dncesnapsitresvees ss $140,832.40
Less: Uncollected pledges (difference June 30, 1962,
ATIC | VC as is ash eeseasSesssceedggregeesenpiepend ee cond dese ed 6,192.48
ass |
Total Tnceme © alec nih $134,639.92 |
OPERATING EXPENSES:
| a a a es ee > 22,493.46
BO ee Ee 310.96
ince eee eee gn ee 12,696.49
PU eo iiss aes ieciriiy shoe icin Ola eee a 12,438.62
ss age svi ieee op ee 3,989.54.
Drees Secs vetige desea issvres wriaa vs tannercasnertorasttae peso nne 810.20
VAC ee ee ea es cee 1,735.73
ek eee etn eves ses 2,810.60
ODT ii tetecd tee tb esse tants 1,106.73
POSTADO eee 1,706.36
| Telephone and telesiapt) eee tl 214.41
EQuipment.: eS ee 78.76
| Mascellan@ous: 2) ccccs i 1,040.89
Total Operating Expenses.) 8 a 61,432.75
| Excess of Collected Income over Operating Expenses.................005. 73,207.17
| DESIGNATED INCOME TRANSFERRED TO
| UNIVERSITY TREASURER: |
SclENce TACINICS a eee i. $ 6,079.77
University departmental usé3 0. o er 5,760.00
Journalism Gunlding find. ce 5,055.00 |
SAIATICS oie os oseseerccces es le ne 4,825.00
FNGOWIMNGRES. ci ii), oe ey ees essed 3,715.00 |
| Won-endowed: scholarships...50 5. 3 eke ai ae i ios nue 1,053.68
Capital times Cam aie 6 ea heii eetenter cg eeceseg eee ee lee 394.00
‘Total Designated Income Transferred......0.....0 eee cece oe 26,882.45
Excess of Collected Income over Expenditures.......00..0 cece $ 46,324.72
REVOLVING FUND BALANCE, JUNE g0, 1963 (Cash
advanced by University Treasurer)... icici. aeieeverensiavesesesse ste $ 800.00
NOTE:

 

Tl
5 |
a

 

SUMMER 1963

CHAPTER CORRESPONDENTS

Appalachian—R. P. London, Jr., ’27, P. O.
Box 831, Johnson City, Tennessee

Arkansas—H. Tyndall Dickinson,
Palisade Drive, Little Rock

Atlanta—Floyd W. McRea, Jr., ’°45, 2081
Dellwood Drive, N. W.

Augusta-Rockingham—J. B. Stombock, ’41,
Box 594, Waynesboro, Virginia

Baltimore—Richard C. Whiteford, ’°57, 905
Arran Road

Birmingham—John V. Coe, °25, 3421
Hill Road, Birmingham 13

Charleston, West Virginia—Lee M. Kenna,
"40, 114 Ashby Avenue

Charlotte—Harry A. Berry, Jr., 751, 3832
Abingdon Road, Charlotte, N. C.

Chattanooga—Gerry U. Stephens, °50, 2720
Haywood Avenue

Chicago—Selden W. Clark, ’55, 345 N.
Western Avenue, Chicago 12, Illinois

Cleveland—William M, France, °58, 21075
Sydenham Road, Shaker Heights 22,
Ohio

Cumberland Valley—James L. Rimler, ’31,
N. Court St., Frederick, Maryland

Danville—C. Richmond Williamson, ’5l,
P. O. Box 497

Florida West Coast—Charles P. Lykes, ’39,
P. O. Box 2879, Tampa, Florida

Houston—Robert I. Peeples, 757, 2344 South
Boulevard

Jacksonville—Robert P. Smith, Jr., °54,
1221 Florida Title Building

Kansas City—-W. H. Leedy, °49, 15 West
10th Street

Louisville—A. R. Boden, °52, 3310 Nanz

Lynchburg—Robert B. Taylor, ‘44, 3610
Manton Drive

Mid-South—Wm. R. Carrington Jones, °54,
644 Commerce Title Building, Memphis,
Tennessee

New Orleans—John H. McMillan, °42, 1333
Webster Street, New Orleans 18, La,

New River-Greenbrier—Judge_ Robert J.
Thrift. Jr., °31, Box 599, Fayetteville,
West Virginia

New York—Paul E. Sanders, ’43, 96 Ralph
Avenue, White Plains, New York

Norfolk—Earle A. Cadmus, ’26, 303 New
Kirn Building, Portsmouth, Virginia

North Texas—C. M. Patrick, Jr., °55, 5358
Montrose, Dallas, Texas

Northern Louisiana—Robert U. Goodman,
°50, 471 Leo Street, Shreveport, Louisiana

Palm Beach-Ft. Lauderdale—Meredith F.
Baugher, ’25, 210 Orange Grove Road,
Palm Beach, Florida

Peninsula—I. Leake Wornom, Jr., 750,
2219 Chesapeake Avenue, Hampton, Va.

Philadelphia—James T. Trundle, ’50, 159 E.
Valley Brook Road, Haddonfield, N. J.

Piedmont—A. D. Jones, ’51, 825 W. Bes-
semer Avenue, Greensboro, N. C.

Pittsburgh—A. M. Doty, °35, Quail Hill
Road, Fox-Chapel, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Richmond—C. W. Pinnell, Jr., ’46, 701-703
West Broad Street

Roanoke—William R. Holland, °50, Moun-
tain Trust Bank, P. O. Box 1411

San Antonio—John W. Goode, Jr., ’48, 201
N, St. Mary’s Street

St. Louis—Burr W. Miller, °49, 6632 Pep-
peridge Drive, St. Louis 34, Mo.

Southern Ohio—Robert W. Hilton, Jr., ’38,
3277 Hardisty Avenue, Cincinnati 8, Ohio

Tri-State—Joe W. Dingess, ’21, 151 Kings
Highway, Huntington, West Virginia

iaeyalleee C. Hubert, ’51, P. O. Box

"41, 6

Upper Potomac—Thomas N. Berry, ’38, 15
N. Alleghany St., Cumberland, Maryland

Washington, D. C. — Arthur Clarendon
Smith, Jr., 41, 1813 You Street, N.W,

Wilmington—Russell F. Applegate, ’52,
Street Road, Kennett Square, Pa.

 

If you move, contact the nearest
chapter correspondent for

news of meetings.

LO
Co

CLASS NOTES

1903

HENRY CALDWELL COE retired in 1953 after
teaching more than fifty years in
Randolph-Macon Academy and Warren
County High School of Front Royal, Vir-
ginia. Mr. Coe is celebrating the 6oth
anniversary of his graduation from Wash-
ington and Lee and is still hale and
hearty.

1906

THE REVEREND SAMUEL REGESTER NEEL 1S
a retired minister of the Baltimore Con-
ference of the Methodist church.

1908

A. D. SOMERVILLE announces that he is a
ereat-grandfather now. The great-grand-
son’s name is Robert L. Wilkie, Jr., and
his father is a lieutenant in the Field
Artillery in Germany.

1912

Roperrt E. SreeLe, Jr., has retired this
year as Executive Secretary of the Virginia
Railway Association. He makes his home
in Richmond, Virginia.

1914

In October of this year, J. J. HALBERT will
retire as Director of Public Works for
the city of Jackson, Mississippi. Mr. Hal-
bert has been with the City Engineering
Department since 1915, first as City Engi-
neer and then as Director of Public
Works, in which office he has been since

1941.

Dr. Roy B. MckKnicur has retired from
active practice of surgery in Charlotte,
North Carolina, and is living in Shallotte,
North Carolina. Dr. McKnight specialized
in surgery of the thyroid gland, and
throughout the years he published many
articles in leading medical magazines.

WILLIAM LEE HARRELL retired from the
principalship of Granby High School,
Norfolk, Virginia, in July, 1962, and
taught English this last year at Old Do-
minion College.

1915

After forty years in the practice of sur-
gery, Dr. L. NELSON BELL has retired and

devotes full time to writing and traveling.

He is Executive Editor of Christianity
Today. For the past eight months Dr.
Bell has traveled in the Far East, par-
ticularly Japan and Korea, and in Eng-
land.

1916

JAmMes H. McGINNIs retired in 1962 after
thirty years of service with the Social
Security Board and the U.S. Department
of Labor and now lives in Atlanta,
Georgia.

1917

Last January DAvip W. (IKE) "THORNBURG
retired from the Highway Department
of the State of New Mexico. Mr. and
Mrs. ‘Thornburg visited the campus in
May.

Dr. JOHN M. SCHMOELE, a retired physi-
cian and surgeon, lives on his ranch near
Santa Barbara, California. As a hobby he
is breeding horses.

1920

EMMETT W. POINDEXTER has formed a new
partnership with John P. Boland for the
general practice of law. The firm name is
Poindexter and Boland and their offices
are located in the Singer Building at 149
Broadway, New York City.

After 38 years of service, PERRY D. Hower-
TON will retire on September ist, 1963,
from ‘Travelers Insurance Company.

1921

Dr. DANIEL BLAIN, one of the nation’s best
known psychiatrists, is president-elect of
the American Psychiatric Association. Dr.
Blain is presently Director of Develop-
ment for Psychiatric Services for the
Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia.
He is also Clinical Professor of Psychiatry
at the University of Pennsylvania. He has
just recently returned to Philadelphia
from California where he was Director of
the Department of Mental Hygiene for
five years.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Oberlin Honors Judge Wisdom

JUDGE JOHN M. WISDOM, ’25, a
member of the University’s Board
of ‘Trustees, received the honorary
Doctor of Laws Degree from Ober-
lin College in commencement cer-
emonies held there June 10.

Judge Wisdom was one of six
outstanding persons honored at
Oberlin’s 130th graduation. Others
included Atlanta publisher Ralph
T. McGill, who delivered the com-
mencement address; William H.
Schuman, president of the Lincoln
Center for the Performing Arts in
New York; the Rev. Sydney K.
Bunker, president of Jaffna Col-
lege, Ceylon; Harold , 1. Clark,
Cleveland counsellor at law; and

Miss Rosemary Park, president of

Barnard College.

Judge Wisdom is judge of the
United States Court of Appeals,
Fifth Circuit, New Orleans. He re-
ceived his A.B. at Washington and
Lee and,his. LL.B... degree at... Tu-
lane.

Oberlin President Robert K. Carr
cited Judge Wisdom as a “learned
and resolute guardian of the law’s
purpose to make society equitable
and men free.”

Judge Wisdom was presented by
Dr. George E. Simpson, professor
of sociology and _ anthropology,
whose presentation remarks follow:

‘Judge Wisdom has attained dis-
tinction in the legal profession
through the practice of law, the
teaching of law, service on an im-
portant Presidential Committee,
and, since 1957, through holding
the position of Judge, United States
Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit.

“For several years he was an ac-
tive participant in the work of the
national committee of the Repub-
lican party. His civic concerns are
shown in the positions he has held
in social welfare organizations in
New Orleans. Among the import-

ant cases in the Court of Appeals,
Fifth Circuit, involving opinions by
Judge Wisdom are the following:
the Bush Case setting forth the
procedures of unitary school zon-
ing throughout New Orleans; St.
Helena vs. Hall concerning whether
a state law that allowed local com-
munities to withdraw from public
education was constitutional; and
Anderson vs. Martin, a three-judge
case involving the constitutionality
of a state law requiring the designa-
tion of a candidate’s race on an
election ballot. In the latter case,
Judge Wisdom began his dissent-
ing opinion by saying: ‘In the eyes

 

JupcE JOHN M. WiIspom, ’25

of the Constitution, a man is a man.
He is not a white man. He is not
an Indian. He is not a Negro... it
is no part of the business of the
State to put a racial stamp on the
ballot....It has no reasonable re-
lation to the electoral process.’

‘“‘Mr. President, I have the honor
to present to you Judge John Minor
Wisdom for the degree of Doctor
of Laws.”

SUMMER 19638

Although ALsert D. Burk is retired, he
remains consultant and advisor for a
wood preserving business.

1923

CHARLES L,. ‘TERRY, JR., of Dover . has
been sworn in as Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court of Delaware. ‘The appoint-
ment was submitted to the Senate by
Governor Elbert N. Carvel and was
promptly confirmed. Justice ‘Terry was
named to the court last July as an asso-
ciate justice after serving on the Superior
Court since 1938.

After thirty-six years in federal govern-
ment service, BERNARD R. KENNEDY retired
in 1952 as Director of Federal Register of
the National Archives in Washington. He
was succeeded by D. C. EBERHART, ’30.

After a period of almost forty years as
practicing attorney in Alton, Illinois, I. H.
STREEPER has resigned to become judge
of the City Court. In his private practice
he had been attorney for the Wedge
bank and several other firms and institu-
tions.

As vice-president and general manager of
the Baltimore Asphalt Block and ‘Tile
Company, WELDON T.. KILMON has seen
service with the firm for over thirty years.

CLARENCE J. LIpDLE is plant supply in-
spector for the Southern New England
‘Telephone Company. On a part-time basis
he also coaches baseball, football and
hockey.

1925

KENNETH A. GOODE is retiring this year
after thirty-eight years of service with
the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway. He has
been in continuous service with this rail-
road since ten days after his graduation
from Washington and Lee.

GIBSON B. WITHERSPOON has been elected
Governor for the Louisiana-Mississippi-
West Tennessee District of the Kiwanis
International. The District comprises over
5,000 members in more than 120 clubs.
Mr. Witherspoon enjoys the traveling and
other work of Kiwanis, especially the Key
Club which is a high school organization,
and the Circle K, which is an organiza-
tion for college leadership. He writes that
he is fortunate in seeing a number of
Washington and Lee alumni in his travels.

Lycoming College conferred an honorary
Doctor of Laws degree on Dr. HERBERT M.
GOULD, retired executive of the General
Motors Corporation. In 1927, after serv-
ing in the office of the Commonwealth’s
attorney of Rockbridge County, Virginia,
Dr. Gould was appointed to the legal
staff of General Motors in New York. He
rose to the position of General Manager
of the Motors Holding Division and re-
tired in 1959 after thirty-three years of
service. In 1960 he was admitted to prac-
tice law before the Supreme Court of the
United States and last year was appointed

39

 

 

 

HERBERT M. GOouLp, ’25

National Arbitrator by the American Ar-
bitration Association of New York.

1926

ANDREW GEISEN is president of the Citizens
Drug Company, Inc., of Pocahontas, Vir-
ginia. He is a former town Police Judge
and registrar of the Pocahontas Precinct
and vice-president of the ‘Tazewell County
Democratic Club.

RICHARD MURRELL YANKEE has been named
President of Darlington School in Rome,
Georgia, to succeed Dr. Ernest Wright
who will retire June goth. After graduat-
ing from Washington and Lee Mr. Yankee
joined the faculty of Darlington School.
He is a member of the Rotary Club, Coosa
Country Club, the Rome Chamber of
Commerce, the First Methodist Church.
The new president is married to the
former Miss Helen Bryan and they have
two children, Richard M., Jr., ’49, and
a daughter Miss Elaine Yankee of At-
lanta.

WILTON WALLACE CONNER is quarantine
inspector of the U.S. Public Health Serv-
ice at Miami International Airport.

1927

Dr. Davin H. Wicer is rabbi of the sec-
ond oldest synagogue in Philadelphia,

Rodeph Shalom, founded in 1795. Among |

his numerous activities is the presidency
of the Marriage Council of Philadelphia.
He has been at Rodeph Shalom for six-
teen years.

In September, 1962, WILBUR SIMMONS be-
came Conference Minister of the Montana
Congregational Conference with offices
in Billings, Montana. The Simmons have
two sons, one a law student and the other
expecting to receive his Ph.D. this year.

40

 

1928

G. WALDO DUNNINGTON represented Wash-
ington and Lee University at the inaugu-
ration of Dr. F. J. ‘Taylor as the 12th
president of Louisiana Polytechnic Insti-
tute.

1929

Since World War II, Dr. L. G. SPENGLER
has been in the private practice of urology
and proctology in Roanoke. He has a
married son, ‘Tom, who is a physicist in
Atlanta, Georgia, and a daughter, Ann,
who is a stewardess for United Airlines.

As dock superintendent for the busy port
of Mobile, Alabama, Stewart M. TAYLOR
writes that he has “been loading and
unloading ships for a little over thirty-
five years.”

1930

BORN: Dr. and Mrs, WiLLIAM W. WELSH,
a second son, John Barnard, on May 20,
1963. ‘The family lives in Gabbs, Nevada.

V. GC. “Par” Jones, a native of Charlottes-
ville, Virginia, has been appointed sec-
retary to Representative William M.
‘Tuck, ’21, Democratic Congressman from
Virginia. Mr. Jones, a former news re-
porter and an author of Civil War books,
has been assisting Congressman ‘Tuck on
a part-time basis for several months.

1932

Now in his twenty-ninth year with the
District of Columbia Recreation Depart-
ment, EvEReTr N. Cross supervises four-
teen playgrounds and recreation centers
in the Chevy Chase-Georgetown area.
He is active in the Lions Club and was
a delegate to the International Lions’
Convention this past June.

19353

As treasurer of Robertson Hardware
Company, Inc., T. DEALE BLANCHARD
serves the oldest and largest hardware
and building materials company in Ports-
mouth, Virginia.

Because of an illness C. W. KAUFMAN re-
signed as president of National Dairy
Products Corporation. When he regained
his health, he became president of Fore-
most Dairies, but he missed Arizona ranch
life and as a result moved again to Ari-
zona and is presently doing graduate work
at the University of Arizona.

The Municipal and Juvenile Judge in
Winchester, Virginia, is JoHN W. Rice. He
and Mrs. Rice have a son sixteen years
old who is an applicant for Washington
and Lee for 1964.

CHARLES J. LONGACRE, JR., was recently
elected to his second term as president of
the Association of New Jersey State Col-
lege Faculties. He is also chairman of the
Teacher-Board Relations Committee of
the New Jersey Education Association
and a member of its Delegate Assembly.
Charlie is a member of the Executive

 

CHARLES J. LONGACRE, JR., °33

Committee of the Union County Confer-
ence of ‘Teachers’ Associations and Chair-
man of the College Salary Committee rep-
resenting nearly 2,000 faculty members
of the publicly supported New Jersey
institutions of higher education. He is
married to the former Helen Collins and
the couple resides in Summit, New Jersey.

WILLIAM HAWKINS resigned in 1956 as
drama critic for the New York World-
Telegram. Since then he has been writing
fiction and his first novel, The Big Red
Pocketbook, was published in February
by Appleton-Century.

1935

In Jeffries, Mississippi, JETTIE DRIVER Owns
and operates a cotton plantation. ‘The
Drivers have two sons. Jerry is an officer
in the U.S. Navy Air Force, and Dwight is
a student at the University of Arkansas.

WILLIAM SCHULE expects to be on sab-
batical leave from Manchester College
during 1963-64 and will be Director of
International Affairs for the American
Baptist Convention at the church center
for the United Nations in New York City.

James M. FRANKLIN is district Scout Exec-
utive for the Newark, New Jersey, Coun-
cil, which he finds very rewarding work.

1936

PHitip H. MILNER was recently appointed
Senior Vice-President of Manufacturers
Hanover ‘Trust Company of New York.

JAMEs L. Price, Jr., has completed ten
years as Professor of Religion at Duke
University where he is chairman of the
department of religion and also serves
as the University Marshal. This past year
he was secretary of the Academic Council,
president-elect of the A.A.U.P.,  vice-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

president of the Faculty Club, and a
member of the University Planning
Committee. Dr. Price is author of the
book, Interpreting the New Testament,
published last year by Holt, Rinehart &
Winston. He is a past president of the
Southern Section of the Society of Bibli-
cal Literature.

PauL G. Hervey has served as director of
guidance in Del Mar College, Corpus
Christi, Texas, since 1962. In March he
acted as the representative of Washington
and Lee at the inauguration of the pres-
ident of Texas College of Arts and In-
dustries at Kingsville, ‘Texas.

Delegate: LEwis A. McMurran, Jr., of
Newport News was presented the Virginia
Citizen’s Planning Association award for
“distinguished accomplishment in further-
ing the orderly and harmonious develop-
ment. of, the. state.” Lewis has been. a
member of the House of Delegates since
1948 and has done yeoman work to re-
vise planning enabling laws during the
1962 General Assembly.

19359

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WARREN H. Ep-
WARDS, a daughter, Stacey Lorraine, on
May 23, 1963, in Orlando, Florida.

RavpH H. SmirTH is in his fifth year in the
insurance business in Cincinnati. He is
assistant vice-president of the Union Cen-
tral Life Insurance Company.

CHARLES DANIEL TOLLEY who has_ been
supervising elementary principal of the
Staunton, Virginia, schools will become
principal of Central Elementary Schoo!
in Lexington, Virginia, in September.

Giorce C, Kerr is a general adjustor in
the Eastern Departmental Office of Gen-
eral Adjusters Bureau, Inc., of New York
City. His activities involve the adjusting
of major fire and allied lives losses
throughout the United State, plus special
assignments over the world.

H. RurFin Horne and Mrs. Horne have a
son, William Peter, ten months old, whom
they adopted in the summer of 1962. The
Hornes also have twin daughters, four-
teen years old. They make their home in
Fayetteville, North Carolina.

1940

BORN: Jupcr and Mrs. Greorcr M. Foote,
their sixth son, Ray Ashbridge, on Jan-
uary 15, 1963, in Alexandria, Louisiana.

In July, 1961, “STEVE” RerD Bropie, Jr.,
was employed to establish and become
first personnel manager of the Owensboro-
Daviess County Hospital, Owensboro, Ken-
tucky. He has made a splendid record.
His daughter is a junior in the high school
where his wife, Louise, teaches English.
‘Their son, “Steve,” III, graduated from
Purdue Engineering this June and ex-
pects to enter the Navy-Atomic Energy
Commission Nuclear Power School.

SUMMER 1963

In his second term as a democratic mem-
ber of the North Carolina State Legisla-
ture, JAMES C. GREEN also operates tobac-
co warehouses in North Carolina, Vir-
ginia, and ‘Tennessee. He and_ his wife
live in Clarkton, North Carolina, with
their three children.

The merger of Shepherd & Company with
National Union Fire Insurance Co., of
Pittsburgh was announced in May. Un-
der the merger HowaArp ‘Tl. SHEPHERD,
president of Shepherd & Company, has
been named resident secretary of Na-
tional Union, and he is the first Arkansan

 

Howarp T. SHEPHERD, °40

to be elected an officer of a major nation-
wide insurance company while remaining
a resident of the state. His agency had
represented National Union throughout
Arkansas for thirty-one years, and Mr.
Shepherd will continue to manage Na-
ticnal Union’s Arkansas business in his
new position.

Effective at the close of the semester in

June, Dr. Lroyp E. WorneR became presi-

dent of Colorado College in Colorado
Springs. He has been serving as Deap of
the College and previously was in the
Department of History.

WittiAM M. Reap is the author of a
recent book entitled Now You Are a
Supervisor, published by Pyramid Pub-
lishing Company.

1941

JAMes C. LARSEN is practicing law in Vic-
toria, Texas, in the firm of Carsnen, Cars-
nen & Larsen. He is also an officer in a
land development company and in a sales
company.

After twenty-two years of total service,
FRANK HyNnson retires from the Navy

this July with the rank of captain. He has
accepted the position of Director of De-
velopment at Washington — College,
Chestertown, Maryland, effective August 1,
1963.

F. SypNor KiRKPATRICK received a B.S. in
chemical -engineering .at M411. after
eraduating from Washington and Lee. For
some time he has been with the Western
Exterminating Company and_ serves as
vice-president of the Newark office. ‘The
Kirkpatricks have a son now at Wash-
ington and Lee, a son John in high school,
and a daughter, Kathey, who has finished
first grade.

WILLIAM JAMES ‘TORRINGTON has _ closed
his private law practice in Baltimore and
moved to Pasadena, California, where he
is employed as attorney for the Federal
National Mortgage Association in Los
Angeles.

1942

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CARTER REFO, their
fourth daughter, Ann Carter, on October
16, 1962.

E. W. BrRocKMAN, JR., is in his fourth term
as Prosecuting Attorney ..for the -11th
Judicial District of Arkansas. He makes
his home in Pine Bluff.

1943

RALPH COHEN is a chemist employed in
government service in Washington, 47. 6:

Still in excellent golf condition, W. J.
NOONAN, JR., iS again the 1963 winne1
of the annual Scenic Hills Country Club
Invitational Golf ‘Tournament in Pensa-
cola, Florida.

Houston M. KIMBROUGH continues with
Standard Qil of California, and he and
Mrs. Kimbrough and their son = and
daughter live in the San Francisco Bay
area. His assignments with Standard Oil
thus far have involved technical service
for refineries, facilities planning, refinery
operation, and financial, analytical and
coordination of crude supply and distribu-
tion for Standard’s worldwide operations.

1944

Dr. JoHN B. CANCELMO continues the
practice of general surgery in West
Chester, Pennsylvania.

In May of 1962 Roppins L. GATES re-
ceived his Ph.D. in public law and gov-
ernment from Columbia University. He is
new academic: dean at..Fairfax Hall,
Waynesboro, Virginia, and is associated
with the Waynesboro Chapter of the
Museum of Fine Arts.

1945

WILLIAM C. Mowris is a salesman for the
Eastman Kodak Company in the Wash-
ington, Oregon, Idaho, and Montana
area. He and his wife and three daughters
make their home in Bellevue, Washington.

41

CHADBOURNE B. SmirH is plant manager
for ‘The Clorox Company, a subsidiary of
Proctor & Gamble. He and his family, in-
cluding a daughter, ten years old, and a
son, six years of age, live in Houston,
‘Texas.

JOHN H. Sorrects, JRr., continues with the
Memphis Commercial Appeal as night
city editor and assistant city editor. Duck
hunting in Arkansas serves as a hobby
for John. He is also active in the Army
Reserve and plans to attend Command
and General Staff College this summer.
The Sorrells have three children.

1946

Continuing with his newspaper work,
FREDERICK S. HOLLEY is now chief of the
copy desk of the Norfolk Virginian-Pilot.
Fred and his wife have a son two years
old and a daughter, age one.

The Fourth Annual Sam A. Myar, Jr., me-
morial award of Memphis has been pre-
sented to Harry W. WELLForD for out-
standing personal service to the local law
profession and the community. Harry
is past president of the Mid-South alumni
chapter, a member of the state executive
committee of the Republican party, an
elder of Idlewild Presbyterian Church and
has been of exceptional service to Mem-
phis and Shelby County.

WittiAM FE. Tripterr for the past six
years has been attorney advisor to the
Interstate Commerce Commissioners. In
1961 he married Miss Mary Anne Derrig,
an Agnes Scott alumna from Macon,
Georgia.

Following a number of years with Mil-
print, Inc., a supplier of flexible packag-
ing materials, GrorcE Stott is changing
his employment and is going with Bever-
ly & Hershey, Inc., a color lithography con-
cern in Richmond, Virginia.

1947

LEE SILVERSTEIN is project director for the
American Bar Foundation on a national
study of representation in state courts
of indigent persons accused of crime. The
study is being made in cooperation with
a special committee of the American Bar
Association and associate committees in
each state. This report is due in 1964.

WARREN G. MERRIN, JR., is sales manager
for Radio Station WSGN in Birmingham,
Alabama.

WILLIAM T. W. BROTHERTON, JR., is an at-
torney in Charleston, West Virginia. Bill
has served as majority leader of the West
Virginia House of Delegates for its 55th
and 56th sessions. While on a Council of
State Government Conference in Chicago,
he saw Ray Smirn, ’50-L, who is a member
of the Arkansas Legislature.

1948

JAmrs F. Kay, owner of the Waynesboro
Paint Store, has been appointed state

42

chairman for the National Retail Freedom
Bond Drive. Kay will head the city-by-
city activities drive which is designed to
encourage participation in the savings
bond program.

SHEPPARD W. ZiNovoy is an executive with
Brae Burn Hat Company, a division of
Lish Brothers, the largest producers of
ladies’ millinery in the United States. He
makes several trips each year to the lead-
ing fashion centers of Europe. Shep and
his wife have two children.

Another book from the pen of CHARLES R.
McDowELL, JR., was published May ist.
It is entitled What Did You Have in
Mind? and contains humorous pieces on
politics, family life, and “other confusion.”
A large part of the book, published by
William Morrow Company of New York,
is based on columns written by Charlie
for the Richmond Times-Dispatch and
the Register and Tribune Syndicate.

WILLIAM E. ‘TUCKER is a member of the
law firm, Gibbons, Gibbons, Tucker &
Cofer. The firm recently constructed its
own two-story building just a few steps
from the Hillsborough County Court
House in ‘Tampa, Florida.

1949

CARLTON H. Kiser is the assistant manager
of the Legal and Bond Claim Department
of the Federal Insurance Company, with
offices in New York City. He and Mrs.
Kiser live in Willston Park, New York,
and have four daughters.

DaAnrEL J. Lirtte has been elected assist-
ant secretary of Interlake Iron Corpora-
tion of Cleveland, Ohio. He joined Inter-
lake last year as assistant to the secretary
after prior experience with Harris Inter-
type Corporation and the Cleveland law
firm of Bulkley, Butler and Rini.

MICHAEL J. BARRETT, JR., is assistant judge
advocate, Air Force Systems Command, at
Andrews Air Force Base.

1950

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Puiip M. LANIER,
a son, Philip Scott, on December 22, 1962.
The family lives in Louisville, Kentucky.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR Woon, JR.,
a son, Baldwin Jennings, on September 29,
1962. Art is editorial cartoonist for the
Pittsburgh Press.

Completing his third year with Corning
Glass Works, ATWELL DvucceR is in
Raleigh, North Carolina, as supervisor
of planning and control. The office is re-
sponsible for production planning, con-
trol, inventory control, warehouse and
shipping. The Raleigh plant manufac-
tures components for electronic circuits,
principally for missile and space work.
The Duggers have a son and two daugh-
ters.

ALLEN H. CHAPPEL is a combination in-

structor-student at the University of
North Carolina. He will soon complete his
work for a Ph.D. degree.

As a member of the firm of Harris and
Robinson, BARNETT ROBINSON, JR., is prac-
ticing law in Miami, Florida. He and his
wife have a son and a daughter.

EpwIn M. Gaines will become Dean of
Students at the University of Arizona
with the beginning of the new session
when the present dean retires. Edwin has
served as assistant dean of students at the
Arizona school since 1961. Prior to that
appointment he was director of develop-
ment and assistant professor of history
at Converse College, Spartanburg, South
Carolina. He studied at the University
of London under a Fulbright grant and
earned his doctorate from the University
of Virginia in 1959.

Dr. PETER MUHLENBERG is a practicing
pediatrician in the Reading, Pennsylvania,
area. He and his wife have three chil-
dren.

GrorcrE W. GINN is employed by the
California State Lands Division, mineral
resources section, as a mineral resource
engineer, working specifically with  off-
shore drilling and seismic work. The of-
fices are in Los Angeles.

STANLEY C, BROowN is associate pastor at
the Central Methodist Church in Phoenix,
Arizona. With 4800 members, the church
is reported to be the largest Methodist
church on the West Coast area. Dr.
Brown had a_ book published in April,
1962, entitled Evangelism in the Early
Church.

RusseELL IF. THOMEs, JR., and his wife and
daughter, Kate Maria, live in New York
City where Russell is merchandising man-
ager of the Four Roses Distillers. Russell
has been with this business for six years.
Although he is a confirmed city-dweller,
he writes that he misses kicking the soc-
cer ball around and the Troub Theatre.

Epwarp ‘T. McMAarTH is sales manager of
the Seaboard Supply Company in Onley,
Virginia. This is a produce brokerage
firm. In this sales capacity Ned travels to
and from Canada where 80 per cent of
the business is transacted. He is also
president of the Mid-Shore Truck Brok-
ers, Inc., and the Onley Insect Control
Company. Ned and his wife have three
children.

1951

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. CLovis M. SNYDER, a
son, Bruce Edward, on May 27, 1963. Dr.
Snyder is now full-time staff and associate
chief of staff for research at the Veterans
Administration Hospital in Fort Howard,
Maryland. The couple has another son,
Stuart, three years old.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RicHArp D. Davis,
second son, Andrew Bowie, on May 12,

1963.
THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

M. THEODORE VAN LEER is associated with
the Van Leer Chocolate Corporation, man-
ufacturers of bulk chocolate coatings and
ice cream bar coatings. Ted and his wife
have two sons and two daughters and live
in Glen Ridge, New Jersey.

Sam B. Ho.tis is secretary-treasurer of
Percy Galbraith & Sons, Inc., in Memphis,
Tennessee, working primarily in com-
mercial real estate and commercial loans.

Gorpvon B. MILLS is an account executive
with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith in their Lexington, Kentucky, of-
fice. He and his wife, Anita, have one
daughter, Elizabeth Lee, aged two and
a half years.

Preston M. BROWNING is completing his
third year in the religion and literature
program in the Divinity School of the
University of Chicago. Previously Pres-
ton had taught at the University of Mis-
souri and Berea College. He hopes to
finish his course work this next year,
write his dissertation during 1964-65, and
return to teaching thereafter. He and his,
wife, Ann, have two little girls and live
in Chicago.

Hotmes BUTLER, JR., is a registered rep-
resentative with Powell, Kistler & Com-
pany, a member firm of the New York
Stock Exchangie. Holmes’ office is in
Norfolk, Virginia.

THE Rev. JAMES C. FENHAGEN has been
moved to Washington, D. C., where he
will be Director of Christian Education
for the Washington diocese of the Epis-
copal Church, For the past four and a
half years he has served at St. Michael and
All Angels Episcopal Church in Colum-
bia, South Carolina.

T. ‘TALBotr Bonp has a small company
bearing his name which distributes office
copy machines in the Baltimore and
Washington, D.C., area. He and his wife,
Ann, have a daughter, Eve, three years
old.

1952

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JosepH J. EISLER, a
daughter, Anne Elizabeth, on December
21, 1962. Joe is with Lees Carpet Com-
pany in New York and Connecticut and
lives in Fairfield, Connecticut.

BORN: ‘THe Rev. and Mrs. BYRON
Waiters, a daughter, Sarah, on April 17,
1963. The Waites also have another son
and daughter, and the family lives in
Kingsport, ‘Tennessee.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HENRY W. WIL-
LIAMSON, a son, John Anthony, on March
2, 1963. ‘The Williamsons also have a son,
Henry, Jr., eight years old, and a daugh-
ter, Lucy, six years old.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WALTER RANDALL,
a son, William Parke, on March 4, 10963.
The Randalls have two other children,

SUMMER 1963

Bette and Walter, Jr., and they live in
St. Joseph, Missouri.

Working out of Garden City, New York,
Paut D. WEILL is an agent for Aetna Life
Insurance Company. He and _ his wife.
Carole, have three children, a daughter
and two sons.

Ropert LEE BATTS, JR., is a stock broker
with the Ft. Worth office of the New York
Stock Exchange firm of Rauscher, Pierce
& Company. In 1952 Robert was married
to Minerva Hobart and the couple has
two sons.

E. M. ANDERSON, JR., is in the legal de-
partment of the Southern Bell ‘Telephone
Company with offices in Atlanta. He
handles regulatory matters for nine South-
ern. states.

In 1958 JAMES PorTER MOREFIELD sold his
interest in the Security Tithe Company of
Houston and formed the South Texas Ab-
stract Service, with offices in the Sharps-
town Bank Building in Houston. He is a
charter member and _ director of the
Sharpstown Rotary Club.

THoMAS R. WARFIELD is employed by
Blyth and Company, Inc., of Los Angeles.
He is married to the former Arlys Ann
Hoffman.

Joun Orr Beck has recently formed a
partnership with Richard B. Kennedy for
the general practice of law. ‘The firm,
Kennedy & Beck, is located in Lisbon,
Ohio.

CHARLES B. Grove, who later received his
law degree also at Washington Lee, has
helped form the law partnership of May,
Grove, and Stork in Lancaster, Pennsyl-
vania.

The vice-president of The Steiff Com-
pany in Baltimore, GIDEON N. STEIFF, JR.,
has been re-elected president of the Bal-
timore Jewelers Association.

RosBert F. STURGIS is president of Acker-
mann’s Department Store in Elgin, Tli-
nois.

The chief Programmer for the Hartford
(Conn.) Federal Savings & Loan Asso-
ciation is Don K. WrLtAms. This posi-
tion requires systems study, flow chart-
ing, and completion of programs for a
Univac Computer. Don and his wife,
Nancy, have a_ three-year-old daughter
and have just moved into a new home in

Portland, Connecticut.
1953

MARRIED: Ewuis B. ScHuLisr and Sara
Kaplan were married on March 30, 1963.
The couple lives in Shaker Heights, Ohio,
and Ellis is loan officer with the Conti-
nental Bank of Cleveland.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HERBERT S. FALK,
Jr., a son, Robert Nathan, on May 4, 1963,
in Greensboro, North Carolina.

Residing in Baltimore, PETER JAMES Ku-

RAPKA is commuting to Washington, D.C.,
where he has been appointed a disability
analyst with the Bureau of Hearings and
Appeals of the Social Security Adminis-
tration. The family now includes his
wife, Marian, and two children—a daugh-
ter, Virginia, three and a half years old,
and a son, David, fourteen months old.

Kermir Epwin Hunptey has been elected
to honorary membership in the Washing-
ton and Lee chapter of the Order of the
Coif. Kermit is presently vice-president
and executive trust officer of the Houston
Bank and ‘Trust Company in Houston,
‘Texas.

James C. Gar has been awarded a Ph.D.
degree in Mechanical Engineering from
Princeton University. Jim attended Rens-
selaer after graduating from Washington
and Lee.

After three years in Montgomery, Ala-
bama, as cost and payroll supervisor for
the Alabama Division, JOHN D. HEARD has
been transferred to Danville, Virginia, as
a member of the Internal Audit Staff of
Dan River Mills. John and his wife have
two children and make their home in
Danville.

Since graduating from Columbia Law
School in 1958, HArotp F. Lenresr has
been an attorney with the law firm of
Davis, Polk, Wardwell, Sunderland &
Kiendl in New York City. The Lenfests
have a daughter, Diane Allerton, who 1S
a year old.

After serving two years in the Army,
Epwarp J. Newsaker, III, enrolled in
Western Theological Seminary in Pitts-
burgh, Pennslvania. Since 1958 the Rever-
end Newbaker has been serving two Pres-
byterian churches, one at Fort Palmer, the
other at Pleasant Grove. Both are country
churches, dating back to near-Revolution-
ary times.

Rosertr C. Coes is highway engineer with
the Bureau of Public Roads with offices in
Washington, D.C. Bob and his wife have
four children, and the family lives in
Alexandria.

Ropnry F. Stock, JR., is employed as an
investigator, City of Upper Arlington,
Ohio, Police Department.

Shortly after the first of the year GRAY
CaAsTLE left a law firm in Washington,
D.C., to become Secretary and General
Counsel for Pyrofax Gas Corporation of
New York City. The Castles have one
son, Scott, age two years.

1954

MARRIED: AtvinN YALE MILBERG and
Sylvia B. Lebowitz were married Decem-
ber 25, 1962, in Maplewood, New Jersey.
While on his honeymoon in Jamaica,,
Alvin contracted hepatitis and was obliged
to return home. Because of this illness
he was away from his work for one year.
Fully recovered now, Alvin is back at his

43

 

practice of law in Asbury Park, New
Jersey.

BORN: Tue Rev. and Mrs. JOHN FLETCH-
ER Lowe, JR., a daughter, Elizabeth ‘Tal-
bot, on May 22, 1963. Fletcher has been
serving as president of the Jaycee Chapter
of Seneca, South Carolina, which was
awarded one of three top state awards—
first place in community development. As
a result the chapter will compete national-
ly and Fletcher will get an all-expense-
paid trip to Norman, Oklahoma, for a
three-day seminar in July. Fletcher is vicar
of the Church of the Ascension in Seneca.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HaAsweti. M.
FRANKLIN a daughter, Ouida Williams, on
March 81, 1963, in Baltimore. The
Franklins also have two sons, Haswell,
Jr. and James. Haswell, Sr., was Man of
the Year for the John W. Boynton Agency
of the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insur-
ance Company in Baltimore, a recipient of
the National Quality Award, and a mem-
ber of the 1963 Million Dollar Round
‘Table.

After two and a half years in the Danish
Air Force, JOHN C. ANDERSEN was a trainee
for an export company in Copenhagen
and import manager with a Danish
Company in Colombia, South America.
For the past two years he has been in
Houston, Texas, as southwest manager
for ‘Tuborg Breweries, Ltd. He is mar-
ried to a Danish girl and the couple have
a daughter born in Texas.

OAKLFIGH FRENCH is employed by Mon-
santo Chemical Company, Agricultural
Chemicals Division, as product promotion
supervisor, Advertising and Sales Depart-
ment. He and his wife, Katherine, and
their two sons, age four and two, live in
Creve Coeur, Missouri.

SuRSE ‘[. PIERPOINT is in an export and
import firm in Colon, Cristobal, Canal
Zone.

JouHN D. HANNON has been elected vice-
president of ‘TP. Rowe Price and Associates,
Inc., the Investment Counsel firm in Bal-
timore, Maryland. John has been associ-
ated with the firm since 1956. He was
formerly with State-Planters Bank of
Commerce and ‘Trusts, Richmond, Vir-
ginia.

JosepH ‘T.. Mears of Shaker Heights, Ohio,
is vice-president of the Taylor Chair
Company of Bedford, Ohio.

CHRISTOPHER COLLINS, now writing his
Ph.D. dissertation at Indiana University
on Russian Expressionist Fiction, has ac-
cepted a position teaching Russian lan.
guage and literature at Syracuse Univer-
sity for 1963-64. Since leaving the Navy
in 1959, he has worked at Indiana Uni-
versity, as well as in Germany and in the
Soviet Union. :

A former associate with the Richmond
law firm of Hunton, Williams, Gay, Pow-
ell & Gibson, WALTER J. McGraw has just

44

 

WALTER J. McGRAw, °54

been elected Counsel of the Life Insurance
Company of Virginia. Announcement of
this appointment, effective April 22, was
made by Charles A. ‘Taylor, company pres-
ident. Wally is a member of the Rich-
mond, Virginia State, and American Bar
Associations and serves as vice-chairman of
the Junior Bar Section of the Virginia Bar
Association. He is also treasurer of the
Richmond alumni chapter.

After two years as assistant county at-
torney, LAuRIER ‘T. RAYMOND, JR., was
elected county attorney for Androscoggin
County, Maine, effective January 1, 1963.
The Raymonds have two daughters and
one son.

Git Bocerrri, JR., joined the Pilot ‘Title
Insurance Company in Greensboro, North
Carolina, in March as assistant vice-
president.

PrTER M. Stockett received an LL.B. de-
gree from the University of Mississippi in
1960. In January, 1961, he accepted a po-
sition as a Special Assistant in the State
Attorney General’s office in Jackson, Mis-
sissippi, devoting his efforts to the so-
called “Civil Rights” area.

WATSON A. Bowes, JR., is continuing his
training in obstetrics and gynecology at
the University of Colorado Medical Cen-
ter.

1956

MARRIED: STUART WoopDWARD ATKINSON
and Elizabeth Strite Marlow were married
in June, 1962. Stuart is practicing law in
Newport News, Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RIcHARD A. ROSEN-
BERG, a son, William S., III, on October
5. 1962. Richard is a member of the law
firm of Fields and Rosenberg in Fort
Lauderdale, Florida.

BORN: EpGaAar L. and BARBIE GROVE of

Lancaster, Pennsylvania, a girl, Helen, on
December 3, 1962. Ned is associated with
Armstrong Cork Company as a_ public
relations executive.

JAMEs D. PERRYMAN, JR., of Tulsa, Okla-
homa, was recently appointed by the
Junior Chamber of Commerce as the
National Chairman for the Young Farm.
ers Award. Jim is head of the public re-
lations and advertising department for
Tuloma Gas Products Company, a nation
wide marketing subsidiary of Standard
Oil Company, ‘The Perrymans have two
children.

SAM H. BERRY was recently made branch
oflice manager of the Ft. Worth office of
Dewar, Robertson & Pancoast, members
of the New York Stock Exchange.

EmMMetr R. KreLLrey is treasurer of Kel-
ley’s Hardware, Inc., in Richmond, Vir-
ginia, and is also secretary of Kelley's
Village Gift Shop.

SAMUEL A. SYME, Jr., after getting his
M.A. degree from Duke University in
1959 and his Ph.D. in education from
Duke in 1961, has been in the teacher
education department of Emory Univer-
sity. It was recently announced that Sam
had been named assistant professor in this
department.

After receiving his M.D. degree from
Duke in 1960, CHARLES E. Dopss com-
pleted a residency in internal medicine at
Vanderbilt Hospital. This July he began a
fellowship for the study of hematology at
Washington University School of Medi-
cine. He is married to the former Ann
Scholderer and they have two children.

In July CHARLEs H. MAcINTosH became
assistant director of the Genesee Hospital
in Rochester, New York.

1957

MARRIED: Epward RANDALL ‘THOMPSON,
Jr., and Miss Elga Barbengo of Florence,
Italy, were married in Florence at the
Sala Rosa, Palazzo Vecchio, with the vice-
mayor of Florence officiating. The couple’s
wedding trip included Mallorca, Paris,
and New York City. The groom is a rep-
resentative of the H. Kempner Cotton
Company of Galveston.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Witiiam — J.
LEMON, a son, Stephen Weldon, on Octo-
ber 1, 1962. Stephen joins a sister and a
brother.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Georce S. GEE, JR.,
a daughter, Jennifer Jean, on September
19, 1962. George is with the Bob Hardy
Company, a real estate firm in Dallas,
‘Texas.

After his military service, RADER WIL-
LIAM WINGET, JR., did reporting for the
United Press International in Knoxville
and Jacksonville. For a year he wrote
publicity for the Bahama Development
Board in Nassau. Bill is now in England

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

completing two years of graduate study
in international affairs at the London
School of Economics and Political Science.

MICHAEL S. JOHNSON has recently joined
the advertising firm of Kenyon & Eck-
hardt in New York City.

Since leaving the University, WILLIAM A.
C. Boyte has been running the family
business of four retail stores in Ber-
muda. Bill reports that several Washing-
ton and Lee men have stopped in_ to
see him on their travels.

1958

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ANbREW MCc-
‘THENIA, JR., a daughter, Paige Barns, on
April 4, 1963. Uncas has joined the law
firm of Morison, Murphy, Clapp & Abrams
in Washington, D.C., and the family lives
in Alexandria.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RIcHARD E, WIL-
BOURNE, II, a son, Richard E., III, on
March 6, 1963. Dick is a practicing lawyer
in Meridian, Mississippi, with the firm of
Wilbourne, Lord, and Williams.

M. MaAxwetL Caskig, III, is teaching
English linguistics at the University of
Michigan. He expects to receive a Ph.D.
in December.

RicHARD D. HAYNEs, an attorney in the
office of Ethan B. Stroud of Dallas, was
recently a guest speaker at a meeting of
the Dallas Bar Association. Before joining
Ethan B. Stroud, Dick was counsel for
Electro-Science Investors, Inc.

‘PHropore G. Ricu, JR., has recently been
appointed buyer of men’s sportwear for
all of the Gimbel stores in Philadelphia.

FRANK M. Hooves, Jr., has been appoint-
ed New York City sales representative,
Fabrics and Finishes Department, Indus-
trial Finishes Divisions, E. I. duPont de
Nemours and Company, Inc.

BRADFORD C. GoocH has been teaching
English, Art History, and Music at Suffield
Academy for the past three years. He
also directs the Glee Club and Choir and
coaches soccer and_ tennis.

WILLIAM B. Wispom, Jr., graduated from
Harvard Law School in June, 1962, and
returned to New Orleans and took fur-
ther law studies at Tulane. He will gradu-
ate there in June, 1963, and will be as-
sociated with the firm of Stone, Pegman
and Benjamin in New Orleans.

Harry Moses became promotion and ad-
vertising director of WTITG-TV, Wash-
ington, D.C., in August, 1962.

1959

MARRIED: DONALD WILLIAM SIGMUND
and Miss Gwendolyn Julia ‘Taylor were
married on April 27 in Darien, Connec-
ticuit. Birt ACQUAVELLA, ’59, served as best
man. Don is employed by Grey Advertis-
ing Company of New York City.

SUMMER 1968

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM S. HARRI-
SON, a son, James Philip, on November 22,
1962. Bill graduated from the Dental
School of the Medical College of Virginia
in June and is now serving a dental in-
ternship at the Naval Hospital in Phila-
delphia.

In April, 1962, JAMES M. Crews, JR., was
released from the Army as a first lieuten-
ant and is now working with the trust de-
partment of the First National Bank in
Memphis, “Tennessee.

BERTRAND R. HuDNALL, II, is scheduled to
teach in the English Department at
Virginia Episcopal School in Lynchburg,
Virginia, for the 1963-64 academic year.

Upon the completion of his fourth year
of medical school at the University of
Buffalo, GrorcrE N. LockigE will intern at
Jefferson Diavis Hospital in Houston,
‘Texas, this year. He will specialize in
pediatrics.

ARTHUR S. GROVE received his M.D. degree
in May from the University of Pennsyl-
vania School of Medicine. He served as
president of the Nu Sigma Nu _ medical
fraternity. Before beginning a_ residency
in neurosurgery, he will take a surgical
internship at Johns Hopkins.

EDWARD BEASON HARRIS, JR., completed
his work at the University of Maryland
Law School in February.

Puitie INSLEY is graduating from Mary-
land Medical School this June and ex-
pects to intern at Grady Memorial Hos-
pital in Atlanta.

H. DoNALD MORINE is associated with the
sales department of the Chicago office of
U.S. Steel Corporation.

JouHNn C. Brepenorr and his wife and
two children are now in a new home in
Richardson, ‘Texas, where John has been
promoted to foreman at the Texas In-
strument Company.

As a medical student at the University
of ‘Tennessee College of Medicine in Mem-
phis, Epwarp M. Reaves also did an ex-
ternship at the Baroness Erlauger Hos-
pital of Chattanooga. After successfully
passing his State Boards, he re-entered
the University and received his M.D. de-
gree in September, 1962. Ed began a ro-
tating type of internship at the Baptist
Memorial Hospital of Memphis in Octob-
er, 1963, and will begin his residency in
the same hospital. In the meantime he has
received his license to practice medicine
and surgery.

JosepH L. CrAycRroFT is with IBM in
High Point, North Carolina, as data pro-
cessing salesman. He and his wife, Frances,
have three sons, Joey, Bobby, and Tom-
my—all freshman applicants for 1976,
1977, and 1979 respectively.

STEPHEN FRIEDLANDER is an attorney in
Silver Spring, Maryland, with the firm
of Friedlander & Melrod.

C. Royce Houcu, III, is scheduled to be
released from the Army in August and
will accept a position with the Wachovia
Bank and ‘Trust Company in Winston-
Salem, North Carolina. Royce and_ his
wife, Harriet, have one son, Michael.

After graduation from the University of
Texas Law School, Dwicur L. Guy is
presently associated with the law firm
of Advokaterna Mannheimer och Zetter-
lof of Gothenburg, Sweden.

RICHARD COLBURN ButTLeER, III, received
his LL.B. from the University of Arkan-
sas in June, 1962, and was admitted to
the Arkansas Bar. He is currently serv-
ing in the Army at Fort Polk, Louisiana.

Puitie E, PALMER expects to receive his
medical degree from the University of
Virginia School of Medicine in June of
this year. He plans to intern at the hos-
pital of the University of Pennsylvania
next year.

1960

MARRIED: DaANieL FisHeR Bripces and
Sally Hobson Bridger were married in
Sanford, Maine, on March 21, 1963.

Kart E. ROHNKE is enrolled at Humboldt
State College, working towards a master’s
degree in the biological sciences. Skip was
married last August. Last year while in
service, he was Second Army Champion in
throwing the javelin.

LAWRENCE F. HILTON is in Law School at
the University of California where he was
elected to the 1963-64 Moot Court Board
after winning first prize for written briefs
in moot court competition.

RoBerT R. FEAGIN is attending law school
at the University of Florida after serving
two years in the Army at Fort Bliss,
‘Texas. He was married in July, 1961, to
Marjorie Mazyck of Dothan, Alabama.

After graduation from Naval O.C.S.
in Newport, Rhode Island, JOHN STANLEY
HoreweEL_t has reported to the C.L.C.
School, N.A.S. in Glynco, Georgia, for
19 weeks after which he expects to be
assigned duty on the U.S.S. Gyatt (DD 712)
out of Norfolk.

W. Hayes GoweEN has recently been elect-
ed assistant trust officer in the First Na-
tional Bank of Memphis, Tennessee.

Married in August, 1960, to Nancy A.
Aufhammer, RoBerr O. WILBUR is now
in his first year at Wharton Graduate
Division of the University of Pennslyvania.
The couple have one daughter, ‘Thelma
Ann, born in January, 1962. Bob expects
to receive his M.B.A. degree in Finance
in December, 1964.

PETER LEE, who completed active military
duty last fall, was awarded this spring
the Army Commendation Medal for his
service in Army Intelligence in Korea in
1961-62. An Eighth U.S. Army citation
stated that the medal was awarded Lee

45

for “providing able guidance to person-
nel involved in intelligence operations”
and for “exemplary performance of duty
in a highly sensitive position.” Peter has
been working this past spring and sum-
mer for the Richmond (Virginia) Times-
Dispatch, and in September he will enter
the Law School at Duke University.

Jor CAMPBELL was in charge of the broad-
casts from the recovery ship Kearsarge
When the astronaut, Maj. L. Gordon
Cooper, Jr., made his historic flight. All
of the information on the progress of the
flight was coordinated under Joe’s di-
rection, and it was Joe’s voice which was
heard on the networks, particularly dur-
ing the actual recovery. He has been with
the Mutual network in Washington, as-
signed to the Pentagon.

MERVYN SILVERMAN is in New Orleans
where he is attending Tulane Medical
School. His wife, Debbie, is studying for
a master’s degree in philosophy on a
Woodrow Wilson Fellowship. Merv has
been elected treasurer of the senior medi-
cal class.

J. FRANK SURFACE, JR., expects to gradu-
ate from the University of Florida Law
School in December, 1963. His plans are to
return to Jacksonville to practice.

After two years in the Army, RANDOLPH B.
KiLMON has returned to Baltimore and
is associated with the investment banking
firm of John C. Legg and Company.

1961

MARRIED: Rocker Depew Honpen and
Audrey Stair of Madison, New Jersey, were
married on August 4, 1962. Roger is a
second lieutenant stationed at Fort Lewis,
Washington, and was one of forty men
selected to participate in tryouts for the
6th Army Area Rifle Team.

MARRIED: JoHN RussELL AMBROSE and
Jean Ann Burrows of Washington, D.C.,
were married on December 15, 1962, in
Norfolk, Virginia. John is teaching chem-
istry in Princess Ann High School, and
the couple live in Virginia Beach, Vir-
ginia.

Assigned to Ft. Benning, CHARLES C.
Bowlr, JR., is a second lieutenant in
charge of the Student Brigade. All in-
fantry officers go through this depart-
ment prior to their first assignment.
Charlie sees many W&L men at this sta-
tion. He and his wife, Louise, have a son,
Charles, III, and they are looking for-
ward to Charlie’s entering law school
in 10964.

Haywoop M. BALL expects to graduate
from the University of Florida College of
Law in April, 1964.

VicTOR KENDALL LASSETER received his
M.A. in English at Florida State Uni-
versity. He will begin his doctoral work
at Harvard in September.

46

WILLIAM ‘T. Burce has been elected pres-
ident of the student bar association at
the Law School of Duke University. Bill
will begin his final year at Duke Law
School this fall.

At present Lewis P. Nrexson, III, is a lieu-
tenant in the U.S. Army, stationed with
the 108th Intelligence Corps Group in
Brooklyn, New York. He is the assistant
officer-in-charge of the Brooklyn Field
Office.

Maurice FE. PURNELL, JR., received his
master’s degree in business administra-
tion in May from the Wharton School of
Finance and Commerce, the University
of Pennsylvania.

Dwicht R. CHAMBERLAIN is employed by
Lincoln-Rochester ‘Trust Company — of
Rochester, New York, in their branch
bank management program. Dwight was
married in October, 1962.

A second-year student at the University
of Pennsylvania Law School, JEROME R.
VERLIN is a member of the Law Review
and president of the ‘Thomas McKean
Law Club.

1962

MARRIED: R. Roy Goopwin, H, and
Sally Maxwell of Augusta, Georgia, were
married on May 24, 1963. After graduation
from Signal Corps OCS last September
Roy was assigned to the 6gth Signal Bat-
talion overseas as a photo officer. He is
now stationed in Kaiserslautern, Germany,
and is personnel officer for the company.
Serving with Roy in Germany is Firsr Lr.
Mike Norett. Upon his release in 1964,
Roy expects to seek his M.A. degree in
Newspaper Management.

MARRIED: Steven A. GALEF and Sandra
Risk were married on March go, 1963.
The couple lives in Charlottesville, Vir-
ginia, where Steve is attending the Law
School at the University of Virginia.

Jay R. PHILLipre is with the Industrial
Relations Department of the Sun Oil Com:
pany in Philadelphia.

Presently enrolled in the Graduate Col-
lege at the University of Iowa, G. T. Dun-
Lop ECKER is working for his M.A. de-
gree in Hospital Administration. He ex-
pects to do summer work for The Na-
tional Institute of Health in Bethesda,
Maryland.

Davin C. KNIGHT is connected with Deer-
field Academy, Deerfield, Massachusetts,
where he is doing alumni and admissions
work as well as teaching.

Roperr F. NORFLEET, JR., entered Naval
OSC. at Newport, Rhode Island, in May.
After training he expects to be assigned as
an ensign to the U.S. Navy Supply School
at Athens, Gerogia.

Tuomas B. SHERWOOD is employed by the
Columbian Peanut Company in Pelham,
Georgia.

Jon Davin ENos is in dental school at
Tufts University. He expects to complete
his training in four years,

The newly appointed. staff assistants to
the Director, Contact and Administrative
Service of the Veterans Administration, is
ALAN M. Corwin. He recently completed
the first phase of the management intern
training program, Alan is also taking
graduate work in public administration
at George Washington University in
Washington, D.C.

Rupert H. JOHNSON, JR., is a second lieu-
tenant with the U.S. Marine Corps, sta-
tioned at Camp Pendleton, California.

H. ALLEN CurRRAN is doing graduate work
in geology at the University of North Car-
Olina where he is also a graduate assistant
in the department.

Residing in Huntington, West Virginia,
THOMAS L. FEAZELL is employed as Assist-
ant General Counsel of Island Creek Coal
Company.

AUT

In

 

1898

SAMUEL GARLAND HAMNER, a retired attor-
ney of Lynchburg, Virginia, died May 8,
1963. Mr. Hamner had practiced Jaw in
Virginia since his graduation from the
University of Virginia Law School in 1902
and was a member of the firm of Edmunds
& Hamner in Lynchburg.

1902

ELBERT W. G. BoocHer died in Merchant-
ville, New Jersey, on April 1, 1963. From
1903 to 1914 Dr. Boogher taught at
Georgia Tech. He then entered the busi-
ness world and was connected with the
Keystone Leather Company, but after ten
years he again assumed a position in the
educational world. Dr. Boogher became
Professor of English and Dean at Rider
College in New Jersey where he was ac-
tive until his retirement in 1949. He was
for twenty-one years on the School Board
of Merchantville, New Jersey. The Wash-
ington and Lee campus enjoyed frequent
visits from Dr. Boogher and he remained
always interested in University affairs.

1906

JupGE WILLIAM CRocKkETT ‘THOMAS, well-
known lawyer, judge, civic leader, and
church worker, died in Wytheville, Vir-
ginia, on May 8, 1963. He had been an

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

active member of the Wytheville Bar
Association for over forty years. Judge
‘Thomas was a former town council mem-
ber, mayor, and county Democratic chair-
man, and commissioner of accounts for
Wythe County. He served as assistant
trial justice for the county for approx-
imately twenty-one years and was judge
of the Wythe County Court from 1956-62.

1910

PHILIP WILHELM MURRAY, a senior part-
ner in the oldest law firm on the Virginia
Peninsula and a former member of the
Virginia General Assembly, died at his
home in. Newport News on April 24, 1963.
He began legal practice in Newport News
in 1912 and at the time of his death was
senior member of the firm of Murray,
Ford, West & Wilkinson. Mr. Murray was
a former member of the Newport News
Waterworks Commission and the School
Board and was chairman of the Board
of Directors of the First National Bank
of Newport News. Mr. Murray assumed
many civic duties and was an influential
alumnus of the University.

1912

WILLIAM JENKINS WILCOX, a member of
the law firm of Snyder, Wert, Wilcox,
Frederick & Doll in Allentown, Pennsyl-
vania, died on May 16, 1963. For many
years he was legal counselor for the
Pennsylvania Power and Light Company
and a lecturer on government regula-
tions of business in the Extension De-
partment of the University of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Wilcox had been president of
the Lehigh County Bar, president of the
Lehigh County Historical Society, and a
moderator and trustee of the Presbytery of
Lehigh.

1916

NorvVIN. CHARLES EvANs died at his home
in Louisville, Kentucky, on April go,
1963. Mr. Evans retired about two years
ago from the mortgage department of
First National Lincoln Bank of Louis-
ville. He was a retired colonel of the
U.S. Army.

JosHUA ENocH BUCKLEY died on Febru-
ary 19, 1963. Mr. Buckley had been a prac-
ticing lawyer in Marlinton, West Virginia,
since 1916. He also served as postmaster
of Marlinton from 1922 to 1934.

1918

ADAM BROYLES BOWMAN, a lawyer with
the firm of Simonds, Bowman & Herndon
in Johnson City, Tennessee, died in Sep-
tember, 1962.

1919

HENRY PORTER FoRKER died in Sharon,
Pennsylvania, on December 12, 1962. Mr.
Forker was president of the Buhl Kim-
berly Corporation.

SUMMER 1963

 

PAUL NEVILLE ALGEE died in ‘Tiptonville,
‘Tennessee, on May g, 1963. Mr. Algee was
a prominent land owner, business man,
and civic leader in West ‘Tennessee. In
addition to his business affairs and serv-
ing on the school board, he had been
magistrate and chairman of the Lake
County Quarterly Court for more than
twenty-five years. He served on the board
of mayor and aldermen for twenty-four
years and took part in many local and
State projects.

1925

OwEN GRAY Woop, manager of the Wood-
Howell Nurseries of Bristol, Virginia,
died on April 23, 1963.

1928

WILLSON IRBy Hurt, a native of Black-
stone, Virginia, died in April, 1963. At
the time of his death, Dr. Hurt was a pro-
fessor in the University of Denver Law
School with which he had been associated
since 1945.

1929

BERNARD YOEPP, J]R., died on December 4,
1962. Mr. Yoepp was territory service man-
ager for Sears, Roebuck and Company
at their southern headquarters in Atlanta,
Georgia.

1931

ARCHEY BAIN MCBRIDE, an attorney in
Bastrop, Louisiana, died October 24, 1962.
Mr. McBride was also president of the
Morehouse Agricutural Industry Com-

pany.

WALLACE JOINER BEARD of Sparta, Illinois,
died on October 2, 1962. Mr. Beard was
owner and operator of the Western Auto
Associate Store of Sparta.

1932

CHESTER HowaArp PAppOCcK of West Red-
ding, Connecticut, died on April 22, 1963.
Mr. Paddock was associated with C. H.
Paddock Associates, a manufacturers’ rep-
resentative company, as owner and sales
engineer.

1933

GEORGE Fox Wine, III, died on May 109,
1963. At the time of his death he was
resident manager of the Hendersonville,
North Carolina, plant of the Federal
Paper Board Company. Mr. Wing had
long been active in church and _ civic
affairs in Hendersonville and had served
as president of the Wing Paper Box
Company, following the retirement of
his father, until the firm merged with
Federal Paper Board Company.

1934

FARRAR NEWBERRY, JR., executive sales
director of the Suncoast Division of the
Pioneer American Insurance Company,
died in St. Petersburg, Florida, on April

13, 1963.

1935

HERMAN Ovis RUFFNER died on June 5,
1963. For the past six years Mr. Ruffner
had lived with his family in Cincinnati,
Ohio, where he was associated with the
Arcose Company, home builders and real-
tors. Prior to that he had owned and op-
erated the Ruffner Motor Sales in Kana-
wha City, West Virginia.

JosepH A. CLEMMER, postal inspector of

Hampton, Virginia, died on May 22, 1963.

1937

THE Rev. ALBERT EDWARD MARTIN, rector
of the Church of the Incarnation of West
Milford, New Jersey, died on November
22, 1962. Father Martin was born on
a circus lot, where his father was a per-
former, and trouped with the circus until
he was thirteen. Before he entered Wash-
ington and Lee, he was a_ professional
prize-fighter and during his college days
he drove a taxicab in Baltimore in the
summer. He was also the boxing coach
for V.M.I. He was ordained to the min-
istry in 1941, and until his death served
Episcopal churches in Baltimore, Mt.
Carmel, Pennsylvania, and West Milford,
New Jersey.

1938

AusTIN JAMES RITrENHOUSE, II, died on
May 7, 1963. Mr. Rittenhouse had had
an interesting career in various fields. At
the time of his death he was an interior
decorator and design consultant in Okla-
homa City, but he was a member of the
Oklahoma Bar Association and practiced
from 1938 to 1942. He then was appointed
to the foreign service and served as
vice-consul in Maracaibo and LaGuarira,
Venezuela. Upon his return to Washing-
ton in 1946, he was in the Latin American
affairs division of the Department of
State until retirement in 1958.

EDWARD CHARLES RANKIN, Vice-President
of Brock and Rankin Book Bindery of
Oak Park, Illinois, died April 11, 1963.
Before joining Brock and Rankin in 1934,
Mr. Rankin had been Assistant ‘Trust
Officer of Mercantile National Bank.

1948

Joun Dominic RuLEvicH of New Britain,
Connecticut, died on January 20, 1963.

1953

BENTZ BUELL HOWARD, JR., a research as-
sociate in molecular biophysics, drowned
Sunday, May 26, while skin diving at
Wakulla Springs near ‘Tallahassee, Florida.
The Phi Beta Kappa graduate received
his Master’s Degree from Princeton Uni-
versity and was working towards a doc-
torate. He joined the Florida State Uni-
versity faculty in 1957.

47

Vlews of the Chapters

RICHMOND

‘The annual meeting of the Rich-
mond Alumni Chapter of Wash-
ington and Lee was held at the Ro-
tunda Club on Tuesday evening,
May 21.

After the annual reports of the
outgoing officers, a short business
meeting was held, during which the
election of officers was held.

The newly-elected officers are:
C. W. Pinnell, Jr., °46, president;
John F. Kay, ’51, Vice-President;
Walter J. McGraw, ’55L, Secretary;
and J. W. Doswell, °47, ‘Treasurer.

WILMINGTON

The Wilmington, Delaware,
alumni chapter was host to the
Washington and Lee Glee Club on
Friday evening, April 26. Members
of the chapter opened their homes
and kept the students over night.

The Glee Club, consisting of
some 60 members, was invited to
have supper with a young teenage
male singing group, Sup and Sing
Club, at the Wilcastle Center. Fol-
lowing supper the Glee Club pre-
sented a concert at 8:15 for the al-
umni and their guests, which was
followed by a dance and _ refresh-
ments served at midnight. All of
the festivities took place at the Wil-
castle Center in Wilmington.

Heading the arrangements com-
mittee were John 'T. Martin, ’26,
A. L. Roberson, Jr., “30, Robert
A. Fulwiler, Jr., °25, and Russell
Applegate, 52.

48

PALM BEACH
FL. LAUDERDALE

A luncheon sponsored by Wash-
ington and Lee alumni took place
during the Florida Bar Convention
in Ft. Lauderdale.

Among the honored guests were
Mr. and Mrs. Lewis F. Powell, Jr.,
‘29, the President-elect nominee of
the American Bar _ Association.
Other special guests included Mr.
and Mrs. Walter Craig of Phoenix,
Arizona. Mr. Craig is an alumnus
of Stanford and is President-elect of
the American Bar Association who
will assume his duties at the annual
convention in August, 1963.

The luncheon paid special tri-
bute to those members of the Flori-
da Bar who had been practicing
law for over fifty years. ‘There were
four Washington and Lee alumni
present: Judge W. F. Blanton, 711,

County Judge of Dade County;
Russell L. Frink, ’10, of Jackson-
ville; David Dunham, ’og, of St.
Augustine; and the senior Wash-
ington and Lee alumnus, Frederick
M. Hudson, 1892, of Miami, who
continues in active practice. Pre-
siding at the luncheon was Mr.
Norman C. Roettger, 758.

CHARLOTTE

Dr. Edward C. Atwood, Jr., Dean
of Students, was guest speaker at a
meeting of the Charlotte alumni on
April 17 at the Charlotte City Club.
The new club provided a beautiful
setting for this meeting and a large
group of alumni
tended the affair.

Dean Atwood’s remarks dealt
with the experiences one would
meet at Washington and Lee to-
day if he entered as a freshman in
1963.

Jack Schuber, °44, the outgoing
president, presided at the banquet
and during the short business ses-
sion the following officers were
elected: President Harry A. Berry,
Jr., ‘51; Vice President James J.
White, III, ’51; and Secretary O.
S. Aiken, Jr., 758.

Bill Washburn, alumni secretary,
was also on hand with beautiful
colored slides of the new buildings
and other recent developments on
campus.

and wives. at-

 

Dr. EpwArp C, Atwoop, second from left, Dean of Students, was guest speaker at the re-
cent meeting of the Charlotte chapter. Also shown, l-r, are JOHN R. SCHUBER, '44, oulgoing
president; Harry A. Berry, JR., 51, newly elected president; and JAMEs J. Wutre, III, ’

» 45,

the chapter’s new vice president.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Homecoming, 1960

October 12

Washington and Lee vs. Centre College

omMECOMING for all Washington and Lee alumni will be observed this year on Octo-
H ber 12. The Generals will meet Centre College’s famed ‘“Prayin’ Colonels” on Wil-
son Field in Washington and Lee’s first defense of the College Athletic Conference foot-
ball crown won in the 1962 season. Because of the dictates of football scheduling, Homecom-
ing for 1963 falls somewhat earlier in the season than usual, but warm weather and the
spectacular color of the Shenandoah autumn will be an added inducement for even greater
numbers of alumni to return for the first big alumni event of the year. A full day of pleasant
activity awaits all who do take this opportunity to visit their University. Make your plans

now to be in Lexington on October 12.

|

The Fall Calendar of Events

Sept 10-12 Freshman Camp at Natural Bridge
Sept. 18 Classes Begin
Sept. 28 Football at Home vs. Randolph-Macon
Oct. 5 Football at Home vs. Oberlin College
Oct. 12 Homecoming Football vs. Centre College
Oct. 18-19 Opening Dance Set
Oct. 19 Football at Susquehanna College
Oct. 25-26 Parents’ Weekend
Oct. 26 Football at Hampden-Sydney
Nov. 2 Football at Franklin & Marshall
Nov. 9 Football at Sewanee
Nov. 16 Football at Home vs. Southwestern
Nov. 23 Football at Washington University
Nov. 28-Dec. 2 Thanksgiving Holiday

Dec. 22-Jan 6 Christmas Holiday

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ommemorative Plates
(Wedgwood)
Sold only in sets of eight different scenes

Price, $24.00 per set, f.o.b., Lexington, Virginia

Available in Blue color only

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

