1967

¥

SPRING

Sloan Grant

Landmark

Icnce

Hor. oc

ES

 

 

 

 

PRESIDENT COLE speaking at 1966 commencement.

 

President Cole to Leave Washington and Le

S THIS MAGAZINE Was going to press, the announce-
A ment was made that President Fred C. Cole wil]
leave Washington and Lee University in September
to become president of the Council on Library Re-
sources, Inc., in Washington, D. C.

The Council on Library Resources is a non-profit
organization that seeks solutions to library problems.
Dr. Cole helped found the Council in 1956 and has
been a member of its board of directors since 1962.

Dr. Cole’s resignation was submitted to the Uni-
versity Board of Trustees at its May meeting. Dr. Hus-
ton St. Clair, rector of the Board, said that the Uni-
versity will feel deeply the “loss of a man of Dr.
Cole's stature as an educator and academic administra-
tor.” Dr. St. Clair added:

“He has been instrumental in the continuing
growth and development of our University, and the
esteem in which he is held among his fellow educators
has reflected great distinction upon Washington and
Lee. This decision evokes profound regret among all

of us who have worked with him and admire ht
greatly.”

Dr. Cole said: “My eight years at Washington af
Lee have been years of great challenge and perso
satisfaction to me. I hope that I have been able
make a contribution here. I have enjoyed my wo
[ shall treasure the memory, but I feel it is time ff
me to move on. My decision to end this pleasal
association is the result of long and careful consié
eration.”

Dr. Cole added that his new work is a “trl
significant Opportunity to involve myself in work th
is relevant to all aspects of American higher edud
tion.”

A future issue of this magazine will give an accoull
of Dr. Cole’s career and contribution at Washingt0
and Lee.

For the moment, let the entire Washington amg
Lee family join in wishing him great success, happt
ness and satisfaction in his important new work.

THE

ASHINGTON

 

 

AND Lee ALUMNI MAGAZINE

fditor

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ‘40

Yanaging Editor
RoMULUS [. WEATHERMAN

Editorial Associate

Mes. WILLIAM N. MOHLER

JHE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Presiden!
JAMES W. Priest, M.D., 43

Vice-President

rHomas C. FROST, JR., ‘50

Secretar)
WitttAM C. WASHBURN, ‘40

Treasurer
Jjoun M. Jones, III, °37

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

WiLLIAM C. BAKER, *38
FREDERICK LK ARTENSTEIN, JR., “41
Jor F. BEAR, '33

CHarLes F. CLARKE, JR., “38
Grorce Crappock, M.D., ‘go
Jack L. Crist, JR., °45
WARREN EH. EDWARDS, '89
LHOMAS C. FROsT, JR., ’50
JouN M. Jones, III, °37
EpwArp H. OuLp, 29
FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN, "24
JAMEs W. Priest, M.D., "43

EDITORIAL BOARD

PAXTON DAvis

FRANK J. GILLIAM, °17

JAMEs W. Priest, M.D., "48
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, "40
JAMES W. WuireHEAD

es

po ublished quarterly by Alumni Incor-
rated, Washington and Lee University,
“Xington, Virginia.
puntered as Second Class Matter at_the
temb Office at Lexington, Virginia, Sep-
Labowese. 1924. Printed at the Journalism
Univeeory Press of Washington and Lee
H versity under the supervision of C.
4rold Lauck.

Volume 42
Number 2

May 1967

THE COVER

On January 4, 1967, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation awarded Washington

and Lee University a grant of $250,000 to strengthen instruction in the

sciences. The photographs on the cover show Washington and Lee students

at work in the laboratory—an exciting and challenging activity. Indeed,

the Unwwersity is putting the Sloan grant to exacting and challenging use.

Articles about the Sloan grant and the status of science instruction at
Washington and Lee begin on Pages 2 and 8.

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

The Sloan Grant: Endorsement and Incentive . . . . . . 2
Bie Cepeee ee 1Tl SCReTIOE sd ORCHID oe ee 8
A Campus Gazette. , | , LO
Books, Books, Books—For Sale. , 14
Life With Uncle: Federal Aid to Education . . . .... 17
le I CO I gg aig ge ae Meee ae
A Unapes G eminand at packer tian OA. “i
GIS See NE a na a ge Als lg te ag eo Ae
Geena kt PR tee rte ee pee ice Sak es ne ae
ESE Cam 52 RS he BU a hen See eis Sat Mod: TR oe

 

 

The Sloan Grant: Endorsement, Incentive

BANNER DAY for science instruction at Washing-
A ton and Lee University came on January 4, 1967.
On that day, President Fred C. Cole attended a lunch-
con in New York and accepted on behalf of the
University a grant of $250,000 from the Alfred P.
Sloan Foundation.

Washington and Lee was one of 20 private, four-
year colleges of arts and sciences chosen to participate
in the Foundation’s $7,500,000 College Science Pro-
gram. Ihe participating colleges will use the grants,
payable over a five-year period, for two main purposes:

# Io strengthen their positions in the sciences—bi-
ology, chemistry, geology, mathematics, physics and
psychology, in the case of Washington and Lee.

# Io demonstrate ways by which other colleges may
improve theirs.

Other colleges receiving grants were Antioch Col-
lege in Ohio, Carleton College in Minnesota, Colgate
University in New York, Cornell College in Iowa,
Davidson College in North Carolina, Grinnell Col-
lege in Iowa, Haverford College in Pennsylvania,
Hope College in Michigan, Kalamazoo College in

9°

    
  
      

“The Sloan Grant is a landmark in the histo
science teaching at Washington and Lee. It sig.
nalizes the contribution which W. and L. has
made and has the capability of continuing tg
make in educating our finest young minds to @
appreciation of the order of our universe,
whether of subatomic or intergalactic dimen-
stons. To be cognizant of the current hy pothesj
about the world is part of the liberal education
to which W.and L. students and teachers aspir
Today, in physics, one should know of quarks,
quasars and quantum phenomena. Tomorrow's
discovertes will bring developments that our sf
and students must be able to understand. The
Sloan Grant recognizes and encourages our co
mitment to increase the involvement of boths
and students in scientific research and scholar.
ship to the end that both the teaching and the
learning activities will be enhanced. The grant
increases the probability that Washington and
Lee men will continue to be among those who
help shape the theories of the future.”

EpwArp F. TURNER, JR.
Head, Department of Phys

Michigan, Knox College in Illinois, Middlebury
lege in Vermont, Morehouse College in Georgia,
Holyoke College in Massachusetts, Oberlin Colle
in Ohio, Occidental College in California, Reed Ge
lege in Oregon, Smith College in Massachuset
Swarthmore College in Pensylvania, and Williat
College in Massachusetts.

When Everett Case, president of the Sloan Founé
tion handed President Cole the award, it betoken
more than the mere presentation of money. It was
vote of confidence in what Washington and Lee b
done, is doing, and will do in the overall field
undergraduate education. It was endorsement at
incentive.

It was not a gratuity. The Foundation conside
not only the accomplishments and potential of
sciences at Washington and Lee. It also examit
the quality and strength of the University as a who
And Washington and Lee was found to be a pl
worthy of investment.

How will the investment be used? The grant
somewhat flexible, enabling the University to §
the funds from year to year if experience shows 0

THE ALUMNI MAGAZI

-

tment of Biology anticipates major

efhe Del :
efits « | improvements as a result of the
hen P
ppor! wided by the Sloan Foundation
gil ) ,

rant 1] partial support from this grant we
y! ,

ws able dd next year to our staf] a fifth full
aie .

fume staf) ember in the general area of phy-

ology: i
depart:

s will add major strength to our
. During the coming summer two of
embers will be carrying on summei

research, h with two undergraduate student
gssistants, ipported entirely from this grant. We
eel that in olvement of more students in under-

waduate researe his highly desirable and welcome
the opp inily to train more students in this

area. We have long felt the need of having more
sits by | itstanding scientists to talk and work

with our undergraduate majors, Although some
support this sort has existed from other
sources, Sloan grant ts particularly
advantageous in that it will permit us to select
spec ial individuals to talk on spec lal areas. The
vecent growth of our department in staff, in stu-
dents and in course offerings results in significant
gaps in Ou) library holdings especially in the
areas of new courses added to our curriculum.
The funds {o library will enable us to rapidly
achieve at least the minimum holdings in these
areas. We also look forward to the opportunity
of some of our faculty recetving leave for further
study and research supported by the Sloan
Foundation Grant. The field of biology ts
developing so rapidly that it is important for
our staf} to keep abreast of current developments
and this will provide the opportunity.”

HENRY S. ROBERTS
Head, Department of Biology

area OL work or experiment to be more productive
than another. Currently, the main programs being

maugurated are these:

—A Faculty Leave Exchange Program.
—Summer Research Program.

—A Distinguished Visitor Program.
Additional Faculty Members.
~Technical Assistance.

—Filling Gaps in Library Holdings.

Exchange Program: In each of the five years, two
Professors from the departments—biology, chemistry,
sology, mathematics, physics, and psychology—may
apply for a year’s leave of absence to carry out re-
“arch and further study at another college or uni-
‘rsity. The absent professors will be replaced by a

PRING Lg67

 

graduate student who has completed his course work
for the Ph.D. or by a recent Ph.D. recipient.

This aspect of the program will be similar in some
ways to the cooperative program in the humanities
sponsored by the Ford Foundation. The humanities
program permits one or two Washington and Lee
professors in the humanities to spend a year at either
Duke University or the University of North Carolina
to pursue research and study projects of major pro-
portions. ‘hese universities, in turn, send to Wash-
ington and Lee terminal graduate students who gain
valued experience under the guidance of a trained
faculty at a college which emphasizes teaching.

The results in the science exchange program, as in
the humanities program, will be twofold: It will aid
the professional and scholarly development of the

3

 

Washington and Lee professor and enable him to

bring back up-to-date ideas. At the same time, it
will allow the graduate student in science to sample
the pleasures and rewards of college teaching before
he makes a final decision on a career that might
exclude teaching. He will also bring fresh thought
to Washington and Lee. ‘The goal will be to establish
in scientific teaching careers men who might other-
wise be lost to other professions and to create a system
of scientific cross-fertilization on the Washington and
Lee campus.

The science exchange program will not necessarily
be limited to the university from which the replace-
ment is drawn. And it is assumed that some profes-
sors will continue to avail themselves of leave op-
portunities from other sources.

4

“Chemistry has been taught at Washington and
and Lee since 1812. Although recommended by
Robert E. Lee as early as 1869, the Department
of Chemistry did not come into existence as a
separate department until 1887. However, the
outstanding excellence of the Department dates
with the appointment of James Lewis Howe as
Professor of Chemistry in 1894. Through the
efforts of Lucius Junius Desha the quality of the
Department was nationally recognized in O41,
when Washington and Lee became one of the
first colleges to be placed on the approved list 6
the Committee on Professional Training of
Chemists of the American Chemical Society, T
fact that Washington and Lee is independent ¢
church and state has rendered increasingly diffi
cult the task of maintaining high curricular
standards. The present strength of the Chemist
Department has not been attained without
financial aid from those who have understoog
its needs. Various individuals and corporatio
have provided aid during the past, but the rap
progress of chemistry has kept the Departmen
on a treadmill of increasing demands. The gra
from the Sloan Foundation recognizes some ¢
the present problems relating to chemistry;
however, in our gratefulness to the Sloan Foune
tion, we are mindful that scientific progress
requires equipment and other needs, the cos
of which are rising rapidly. We are hopefult
the grant from the Sloan Foundation will b
sufficiently contagious to encourage addition
aid,

Kk. S. GILREATH

Head, Department of Chemist

Summer Research Program: A portion of the Sle
funds will be used to support a summer program
research, involving student participation, to me
the needs of Washington and Lee faculty membé

‘This summer, tor instance, support will be provic

for six professors and 12 students to carry out a wi
range of projects.

This program will be designed to fill a need of
stated this way by Dr. Leland Haworth, director
the National Science Foundation: “The opportu
to do research is essential in any institution whi
hopes to retain competent members and to insp
its students to appreciate science.”

The summer research program made _ possible
the Sloan funds will greatly augment faculty
student research projects in many areas already une

THE ALUMNI MAGAZI

 

“The Sloan Foundation Grant is certainly a
milestone in the development of Washington
and Lee's science program. I expect the program
of leaves to have the most significant long-term
impact on W.el. It will help to keep our faculty
in close fouch with new developments at lead-
ing universities; it will provide the opportunity
for up-dating the faculty’s educational back-
pround,; and it will enlarge our contacts through-
pul the scienti—fic community.”

EDGAR SPENCER
Head, Department of Geology

way at the University. Some of this work has been
supported by the Robert E. Lee Research Program
for Undergraduates, and other work has been sup-
ported by the National Science Foundation, National
Institutes of Health, Research Corporation, and _ the
U. S. Office of Education.

Demands on the Lee research program have ex-
ceeded its resources, and grants from other sources
have become increasingly hard to obtain. Consequ-
ently, members of the Washington and Lee science
faculty frequently have gone elsewhere during the
summer to teach and pursue research. ‘The summer
program will reduce such departures and give addi-
tional faculty members an Opportunity to participate
in on-campus projects. Once established, the pro-
gram is expected to generate other support which
can be used to maintain the program after the Sloan
lunds have run out.

The Lee research program is established and proven.
A gift from an alumnus, the late Dr. Gustav Capito
of Charleston, W.Va., enabled the University to
establish the program in 1960. It enriches undergad-
late experience by making it possible for students to
Work closely with professors on significant research
projects of broad variety.

Its principal benefits have been to prepare under-
Sraduates for graduate research and to encourage
them to continue in graduate school. Simultaneously,
‘thas stimulated professors to continue independent
research and study. The Lee program embraces all
«cademic departments, but its greatest activity has

SPRING 1967

 

been concentrated in the sciences. The program’s
resources cannot meet demands, and some worthy
projects have had to be turned down. Research made
possible by the Sloan funds will complement this
distinctive and valuable program in the sciences.

A Distinguished Visitor Program: The Sloan grant
will allow the science departments to bring to the
campus outstanding mathematicians and _ scientists
who will conduct seminars for students and will help
keep the faculty informed of developments in their
fields. This program of visitations will supplement
existing programs which bring speakers to the campus
in the sciences and other fields.

The science seminars will help mitigate the feeling
of isolation from the mainstream of scientific thought
often felt by professors in a four-year college with
relatively small science departments. In the past, this
has been somewhat of a problem at Washington and
Lee.

The distinguished visitor program will permit at
least one visit of several days to a week, or perhaps
several shorter visits, by an eminent scientist in each
of the science departments every year. ‘The visitor
would conduct at least one seminar for students, but
he would be asked to spend most of his time with mem-
bers of the faculty, informing them of the develop-
ments in the discipline and of his work and thought.

Additional Faculty Members: Each of the partici-
pating departments will be able to add a faculty mem-

J

 

ber over the five-year period to relieve excessive teach-

ing loads. The standard teaching load in the sciences
in most universities is six hours. The average load
at Washington and Lee, exclusive of research super-
vision, is 12 hours.

Furthermore, the sciences are rapidly changing dis-
ciplines, and science professors often find themselves
hard put to incorporate into the undergraduate cur-
riculum the essentials of recent developments. Scienti-
fic courses are rigorous, and students require as much
individual attention as the professor can give them.

Additional faculty members in the sciences will
permit professors to give students more personal at-
tention without sacrificing rigor or course content.
The new teachers will also make it easier for the
departments to adjust to more frequent leaves of
absence.

Technical Assistance: A competent electronics tech-
nician will be employed to assist all departments. ‘This
will further free professors for teaching, course prep-
aration, and research supervision. As much time is
‘often required to set up a three-hour laboratory as is

6

“The major obstacle to the maintenance and
development of a strong Department of Psy-
chology in a liberal arts college is the difficult
in the procurement of well qualified personnel,
Even the young Ph.D. who wants to teach att
undergraduate level has active research interes
which he wants to continue to pursue after th
receipt of his degree. Continuing research pro
both the teacher and his students, particularly
if it is carried on in a setting where the emphg
is on teachers with research interests and not ¢
researchers who are irked by teaching duties,
The award of the grant from the Sloan Found,
tion has already eased this problem for us. W.
have just recetved acceptance to our offer of
position for the next school year in the Depa
ment to an exceptionally able and well traing
young man. The availability of support for su
mer research, a strengthened psychology libra
the possibility of leaves for instructive purpos
and the possibility of adding additional per
sonnel to the department, all of which are ma
possible by the Sloan Foundation Grant, con-
tributed significantly to his decision to join t
Washington and Lee faculty.”

WILLIAM M. HINTON
Head, Department of Psychole

needed to prepare three hours of class work.

The technician will set up complicated expe
ments in advance of laboratory sections under the gé
eral direction of the teaching faculty. He will ke
laboratory and electronic equipment in good repé
He will construct, when feasible, various pieces of
paratus for scientfic research, making use of f
University’s shop facilities.

Closing Gaps in. Library Holdings: Each scier
department has a departmental library housed e€
venient to its classes and laboratories. The Univers

    
  

now provides adequate support to maintain gé
libraries in scientific fields. But gaps exist in me
of the departmental collections. A portion of the S10
funds will be used to close these gaps so that all nee
for research and instruction will be met.

The University will continue to seek support fre
other sources and will intensify its appeals to alu
parents, friends and others. Indeed, this is one of t
tacit conditions under which the University accept
the grant.

To a marked degree, past outside support of t

THE ALUMNI MAGAZI

«The Sloan Foundation Grant will be of benefit

yo mathematics at Washington and Lee in several

ways. / yst, it will make possible the procure-
ment O}
e or reduce teaching loads or both. Second, it

additional personnel to reduce class
§12
js hoped that it will make possible visits of emt-
vent mathematicians to the campus. Third, it
provides for temporary employment of young
mathematicians who are presently in graduate
hool but who contemplate careers in college
teaching. Fourth, there is some provision for
further study by those now on the faculty. The
last three of these items should make it possible
for the department to keep in constant contact
with development in undergraduate mathe-
matics at other institutions.”

Fevix P. WELCH
Head, Department of Mathematics

University provided a basis for the Sloan grant.
The University’s application may well have been set
aside if the University had not demonstrated its
ability to win support for its programs from within
and without its immediate family. For instance, a
fund campaign begun in 1958 provided for a new
four-story science building and the enlargement and
renovation of the old science building.

Now the Sloan grant has put Washington and Lee
on the threshold of a new era of leadership in under-
graduate scientific studies, for in the years ahead it
will share the benefits and experience derived from
the Sloan program with other colleges and universities.

The 20 colleges chosen by the Foundation to parti-
Cipate in the College Science Program—the largest
appropriation for a single program in the Foundation’s
32-year history—were cited for their ability to conceive
Original solutions to their own problems and to those
ol institutions in similar circumstances, their commit-
ment to improve science education, their capacity to
arry through their plans, and their ability to sustain
the added effort after the Sloan support expires.

Mr. Case, the Foundation president, said in an-

SPRING 1g67

 

nouncing the awards that liberal arts colleges—tradi-

tionally the training ground for many high school
science teachers and for a larger proportion of future
scientists—have recently been in danger of falling
behind in the competition with large universities,
government, and industry for top faculty and students.
He added:

“We are very much aware that this College Science
Program, sizable as it is for the Sloan Foundation,
will be useful primarily in dramatizing the total prob-
lem and in pointing to ways of solving it. For this
reason, the Foundation has taken care to select, as
‘demonstration’ centers, colleges representing a wide
range of achievement and potential in the sciences
and proposing a correspondingly wide variety of
solutions. We hope, of course, that the example of
these colleges thinking and acting to improve their
science programs will be useful to other colleges in
analogous situations. Above all, we hope that our
grants will serve to release an increasing stream of
supporting funds from private and public sources.”

This is the challenge of the Sloan Foundation grant
to Washington and Lee University and its friends.

 

The Upward Pull
in
Science Teaching

HY THE SLOAN FOUNDATION grants to strengthen
science education in private, four-year liberal

arts colleges like Washington and Lee?

After all, great things in the sciences are being

done at big graduate universities—MIT, Cal Tech
and the like. Why not put the money where the
action is?

The trustees of the Sloan Foundation, examining
the situation, saw it another way. They saw small
independent colleges having trouble keeping abreast
of rapid advance in the sciences at a time when such
institutions are still very much the places where a
large percentage of future scientists receive their first
training. The Foundation’s response was its College
Science Program, which in its broadest aspect seeks
to preserve and strengthen the ideal of liberal educa-
tion at the undergraduate level which, educators agree,
cannot continue to be effective if it lacks a strong
science Component.

The choice of Washington and Lee to participate
in the program was a tribute to the University’s
determination to avoid the ills the Sloan program is
designed to relieve.

At one time the University was beset by many of
the widely discussed problems surrounding under-

5S

 
  
   
 
  
 
   
   
  

graduate science education at small private colleg
in the post-Sputnik era. Chief among these probley
were inadequate facilities and equipment, the ne
to enlarge and retain Washington and Lee’s 9
standing faculty of scientists, to attract more te
flight students in the sciences, and to bridge a 0
between the humanities and the sciences.

The merit of Washington and Lee’s offerings
the humanities and social sciences has always bee
recognized and respected. But its strength in
sciences and mathematics has not always enjoyed t]
same reputation despite the presence of an excelle
and devoted science faculty.

For a long period, teaching and laboratory fae
tics for biology, chemistry, geology and physics we
woclully crowded and antiquated. B.S. graduates we
generally well prepared, but relatively few fut
scientists were attracted to Washington and Lee,
majority of science graduates were pre-medical—u
in the past five years—who entered good medie¢
schools. This was ample evidence of the effectiveng
and potential of science education at Washingte
and Lee. But more, much more, was needed.

In 1953, the University undertook a general d
velopment program that gave high priority to c¢
recting the imbalance between emphasis on scientif
instruction and the emphasis on other curricula. Th
results were revolutionary.

A Successful Campaign

In 1958, a capital campaign among alumni a
others raised sufficient funds in two years to give t
sciences the facilities so long overdue. In 1962,
new four-story building was placed in use by t
departments of biology and physics. The old scien¢
building was enlarged and completely renovated t
provide vastly improved accommodations for the d
partments of chemistry and geology. The over
result was that Washington and Lee’s physical qua
ers became as good as those on the best Americé
undergraduate campuses.

When President Fred C. Cole took the helm 6
Washington and Lee, he took additional steps ft
build up science education as well as other areas ¢
the college. Faculty salaries were raised; teachitt
positions in the sciences were made compatible wi
research interests; a council on leaves and resear
was established; professors were encouraged to seé
outside support for their individual research activitie
and as much as possible, the university itself assisté
directly with faculty research and study grants.

When the Robert E. Lee Research Program fe
Undergraduates came along, the new science facil
ties being built were redesigned in part to provid
each professor with a small private research laborato

THE ALUMNI MAGAZIN

and special rooms were set aside for professors and
sudents engaged in Lee research programs.

An IBM 1620 computer was acquired for faculty
and student research and instruction. ‘This computer
on became a great stimulus to mathematical studies
and to scientific studies in general and an important
aid in ficlds of commerce and the social sciences.

Further support of the science program came in
the form of grants from the National Science Founda-
rion and the National Institutes of Health. The Uni-
versity willingly matched several significant NSF
equipment grants. The Atomic Energy Commission
has a been a source of vital support in physics. The
program of faculty and student research in psychology
has drawn heavily on assistance from the NIH, NSF,
and Lee research program.

Increase in Majors

The rigor of courses in mathematics was increased
as the need for sound mathematical foundations for
scientific studies multiplied. Although B.A. candi-
dates have an option of taking either mathematics
or a classical language in fulfilling distribution re-
quirements for graduation, about 75 per cent choose
mathematics.

Improvements in facilities, equipment, curricula
and instruction have brought about a steady increase
in the number of senior students majoring in the
sclences—26 in 1963-64; 30 in 1964-65; 38 in 1965-66,
and 39 in 1966-67. These are in addition to pre-
medical majors, which average about 18 a year.

The science faculty has grown stronger and_ will
become still stronger under the impetus of the Sloan
grant. [he University’s mathematicians and scientists
are well trained and professionally active. ‘Twenty-one
of 27 have the Ph.D. degree and three of the other
SIX Expect to receive the degree soon. A great majority
of them publish, and all are deeply interested in var-
ious kinds of research. ‘They are in demand as visiting
scientists at other institutions and as judges at science
lairs. Many have broadened their teaching experience
during the summer at schools throughout the United
States and Canada.

Within the past few years the curricula in all of
the sciences and mathematics have been modified to
‘ake advantage of the better preparation of fresh-
en and to increase the depth and intensity of courses
‘© meet the demands of graduate schools.

At the same time, the University has endeavored
‘0 assure that courses for non-science majors will re-
main broad enough and unspecialized enough to
‘lusty the science requirements of the B.A. degree.
N fact, professors in the humanities and social sciences
have cndorsed the University’s efforts to bring the
‘clentific program into better relationship with the

§
PRING 1967

University’s overall educational effort. Thus the
place of science in the context of a liberal education
is accepted graciously at Washington and Lee—a
situation that coincides with one of the purposes of
the Sloan program.

All along, science education at Washington and
Lee has contributed to and benefited from a systematic
sharing of resources with other institutions and
organizations. “The University, through its member-
ship in the University Center in Virginia, has ac-
quired a number of distinguished speakers in the
sciences. Speakers have also come from the national
scientific societies such as the American Chemical
Society, the American Institute of Physics, the Ameri-
can Geological Institute and the American Geo-
physical Society.

Many Washngton and Lee professors and some stu-
dents have participated in programs of the Oak Ridge
National Laboratory. The Laboratory’s mobile labora-
tory visited the University not long ago for a two-
week course in radiolaboratory techniques.

Each year the University sends large delegations of
students and faculty to the Virginia Academy of
Science and to regional meetings of various scientific
organizations, and some faculty members attend na-
tional scientific meetings. Many faculty members hold
offices in local sections of national scientific organiza-
tions and, of course, participate in their national con-
ferences. Last year the geology department conducted
a summer institute for high school geology teachers
under the auspices of the National Science Founda-
tion, and will hold another institute this summer.

“Gesture of Faith”

It is clear that Washington and Lee is well pre-
pared to make full and exacting use of the Sloan
Foundation support to improve its own position in
scientific education and to help similar institutions
avoid the perils that just a few years ago confronted
the sciences at Washington and Lee.

To quote again Mr. Everett Case, president of the
Sloan Foundation:

“With this program the Foundation hopes to test
and if possible establish the viability of the four-year
liberal arts colleges as places where teaching and re-
search in the sciences can not only occur but can grow
in significance. We are predisposed, of course, to
hope and believe that this will be so. It is now up
to the colleges and all who believe in their future
to vindicate this gesture of faith.”

The Washington and Lee University family—faculty,
students, administrators, alumni, and friends—can
only reply in kind to the Foundation: “Yours the
faith; ours the duty.”

A Campus Gazette...

Jenks IN Evuropve

Dr. William A. Jenks, professor
of history, is conducting research
in Austria and Italy under a fel-
lowship from the American Coun-
cil of Learned Societies. An author-
ity on the Hapsburg monarchy, he
is on his third trip to Europe on
study grants. He studied in Italy
and Austria in 1954-55 under the
auspices of the Fund for the Ad-
vancement of Education and the
Fulbright program; he studied in
Austria in 1961-62 under an award
ol the
Council.

Social Science Research

Dr. Jenks left May g1 for study
in Turin and Rome and in Vienna.
He will return to Washington and
Lee in September, 1968. He was
previously awarded one of the Uni-
versity’s Glenn Grants to continue
his research on the dissolution of
the Hapsburg monarchy. He is in-
corporating that work into the
ACLS fellowship. He is the author
of three books dealing with Aus-
trian history: The Austrian Elec-
toral Reform of 1907, Vienna and
the Young Hitler, and Austria
Under the lron Ring, 1879-93. Dr.
Jenks is a 1939 graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee and joined the
faculty in 1946.

Ray Is NAMED FELLOW

Dr. George W. Ray, III, assistant
professor of English has been
named a fellow in the Cooperative
Program in the Humanities spon-
sored by Duke University and the
University of North Carolina. He
will conduct research at the two
North Carolina universities dur-
ing the 1967-68 academic year. His
work will consist of a critical study
of the plays of George Chapman,

10

playwright for the Elizabethan and
Jacobean stage, the field in which
he did his doctoral dissertation.
During his absence from Washing-
and Lee, a graduate student from
either Duke or North Carolina will
teach in his place. The program,
now in its fourth year, was made
possible by a grant from the Ford
Foundation to the two North Car-
olina

universities. Ray came to

Washington and Lee in 1964.

JARRETT Gets FELLOWsHIP

Dr. H. Marshall Jarrett, associate
professor of history, has received
one of the first fellowships awarded
by the National Endowment for the
Humanities of Washington, D.C.
The fellowship provides for a sum-
mer of study and research. Dr. Jar-
rett will conduct research into 18th
century French intellectual history
during July and August, mostly at
Harvard. He may do some of the
work in Europe. He joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in
1963.

BARRETT TRANSLATES NOVEL

Dr. Linton Lomas Barrett, pro-
lessor of romance languages, has
translated from Portuguese to Eng-
lish a new novel by Brazilian author
Erico The book was
published in March in New York
by The Macmillan Co. and in Lon-
don by Collier-Macmillan Ltd. The
novel, His Excellency, The Ambas-
sador, involves the ambassador of

Verissimo.

a mythical South American coun-
try, torn by revolution, in the
diplomatic and social circles of
Washington, D. C. This is the
fourth book by Verissimo that Dr.
Barrett has translated and_ the
seventh he has translated from the

Portuguese.

   
   
   
   
  
 
  
   
 
   
  
    
   
   
    
  
  
    
   
 
    
   
  
  
  

Te : ee
ran

< ; :

SWAN TO HAVERFORD

Dana Swan, Washington
Lee's lacrosse and freshman f
ball coach, has resigned to bee¢
the head football coach at Ha
ford College in Pennsylvania,
graduate, of Swarthmore Col]
where he won 10 letters in footk
basketball and baseball, he

been at Washington and Lee sj
1g61. He will join the Haverf
athletic staff this fall. In addit
to coaching football, he will as
in a spring sport and teach sey
physical education courses.

EMERITUS POSITIONS

H. Howard has |
named registrar, emeritus, and
Boyd R. Ewing, has been nar
associate rome
languages, emeritus. They reti
from active positions with the
versity last June. Mr. Ho

served 42 years on the faculty ¢
stall of the
versity and was appointed regis
in 1953. Dr. Ewing served gg ye
as a member of the Departmen
Romance Languages.

Edwin

professor of

administrative

Joun M. GLENN GRANTS

Sixteen Washington and
prolessors received grants this
to further their study and reseé
under the John M. Glenn prog
The program was established
1953 to encourage faculty scho
ship and to increase teaching effe
veness. It is supported by a $120,
gilt from the late John M. Gle
who was an official of the Rus
Sage Foundation and an 1
graduate of Washington and
The grants this year totaled $8,4
The 1967 recipients, their dept
ments and projects:

THE

ALUMNI MAGAZI

James Boatwright, English, for
vravel and research in England and
scotland: Sterling M. Boyd fine
3 to attend a seminar in Eng-

od on English architecture; Wil-
iam WwW. Chafhn, English, to con-
nue Tt search on the rhetoric of
Henry “4. Wise; Dr. John F. De-
Vogt, commerce, to continue re-
search in the application of the
Marko chain theory to marketing

management; Dr. Severn Duvall,
English, to continue research on the
“TZ _ | ae

southern “romance,” a generic and

historical! study;

Dr. John M. Evans, English, for
research on Pope's “Epistle to Dr.
Arbuthnot”; Dr. Jefferson D. Futch
i, history, for research in Wash-
ington and Rome for a general or
politica! biography of Italy’s King
Vitorio Emanuele III; Dr. William
\. Jenks, history, to continue re-
search in Europe on the dissolution
of the Hapsburg monarchy; Dr.
Allen W. Moger, history, to re-
vise a manuscript on “From Bour-
bonism to Byrd:
i869 to 1925"; Dr. Edward L. Pin-

Virginia from
ney, political science, to attend a
political survey and research de-
sign seminar at Ann Arbor, Mich.;
Dr. Wilfred Jf.
tinue research on the early legisla-

Ritz, law, to con-

tive history of the federal judiciary
system;

Larry A. Schmucker, philosophy,
lo continue research in Europe on
the philosophy of Ludwig Wittgen-
stein; Dr. Joseph B. ‘Thompson,
psychology, for research on the mo-
livational role of the hippocampus
in the rat; Dr. Charles W. ‘Turner,
history, (o participate in a seminar
iM European cultural history, con-
ducted by the faculty of Bates Col-
lege; Dr. Sidney J. Williams, Jr.,

romanc: continue

languages, to
search on the reception of the
modern Spanish theater in Buenos
Aires, and to consult on Spanish
Pastoral romance: Dr. John C. Win-
lrey,
on

economics, to continue work
a textbook in public finance.

*PRING 1967

 

Porcelain tea set, once owned by Paul Revere, was on display during Virginia Garden
Week at the home of Presipenr AND Mrs. Cote. The set is part of a collection of china
donated to the University by Mrs. EucHuin D. Reeves of Providence, R. I.

A Girt OF PORCELAIN

A porcelain tea set owned by
Paul Revere and three Chippen-
dale chairs that belonged to George
Washington were among a large
collection of items given recently
to the University. The collection
was the gift of Mrs. Euchlin D.
Reeves of Providence, R. I., whose
late husband was a member of the
Washington and Lee Law Class of
1927. Many of the items date to the
late 18th and early i1gth centuries.
The collection will be known as
Alumni Mag. Twenty-Nine .... 29
“Mr. and Mrs. Euchlin D. Reeves
Collection in memory of Mrs.
Miss
Dyer.” ‘The collection § in-

Chester Green Reeves and
Lizzie
cludes many china sets belonging
to a number of American  presi-
dents from Washington through
Lincoln. Some of the items were
displayed recently during an open
house at the home of President and

Mrs. Fred C. Cole. The collection

is being catalogued and appraised
and will be put on permanent dis-
play at a later date.

NSF GRANTs

The National Science Founda-
tion has awarded grants to the
Departments of Chemistry and Ge-
ology for undergraduate research.
The NSF grants, $5,600 in chem-
istry and $4,200 in geology, provide
stipends for students to participate
in research projects at Washington
and Lee during the summer. The
program is aimed at students who
intend to continue their education
in graduate schools, but is not
limited to them, nor is it limited to
students enrolled at Washington
and Lee. Faculty members of the
departments supervise the projects.
This is the third NSF grant ap-
proved for geology in the last six
years. Phe chemistry department has
had at least one NSF undergradu-
ate program in effect since 1963.

11

Campus Gazette...

STEWART WINS AWARD

Robert
music, received the “Best Composi-

Stewart, prolessor ol
tion Award” at the annual Sym-
posium of Contemporary Music for
Brass at Agnes Scott College in
Georgia. As winner of the award
for his composition, Music for
Brass No. 4, Prof. Stewart received
Atlanta
Music Club to compose a work to

a commission from the
be performed at the next sympos-
ium in February, 1968. His works
have been performed by many
groups, including the Atlanta and

Roanoke symphony orchestras.

BUSINESSMEN HONORED

Richard D. Irwin, founder and
chairman of the board of Richard
D. Irwin, Inc., book publishers was
accepted into membership by the
Washington and Lee University
Chapter of Omicron Delta Epsilon,
honorary society in economics; and
Adrian L. McCardell, president ol
the First National Bank of Mary-
Beta
Gamma Sigma, the national honor-

land, was initiated into
ary commerce society. ‘They were
the honored guests at a joint eve-
ning banquet of the two profes-
sional societies. Irwin is also a
founder and director of the Richard
ID. Irwin Foundation and founder
of The Dorsey Press, a division of
McCardell is a
1929 graduate of Washington and

the Irwin firm.
Lee. He also serves as Commis-
sioner of Finance for the City ol
Baltimore.

Omicron Delta’ Epsilon also
honored Dr. John C. Winfrey, as-
sistant professor of economics at
William
Lawrence Fellman, senior, of Dal-

Washington and Lee;

las, Tex., and Joseph Aubrey Mat-
thews, Jr., junior, of Marion, Va.
Beta Gamma Sigma initiates in-
cluded James W. Whitehead, Sr.,
treasurer of the University, and
students James D. Awad of Rye,

12

Ea

Bi

es

 

Howarp K. SmirH, ABC news commentator, talks with delegates to the g8th any
Southern Interscholastic Press Association convention.

N. Y.; Kenneth Mark Greene ol
Martinsville, Va.; John K.
kins of Annapolis, Md., and David

Hop-

TI. Johnson, Jr., ol Pensacola, Fla.

SIPA ... ANYWAY

Washington and Lee students
were on spring vacation when 1,100
school

high students, journalists

and their advisers came to the
campus for the 38th annual South-
ern Interscholastic Press Associa-
tion convention. The girls among
the delegates may have been disap-
pointed, but they were not without
attention. Several University stu-
dents stayed behind to help with
the convention, and there were
many boys among the delegates. Be-
sides, all of the delegates were ab-

sorbed in a challenging

g program.

The principal visiting speakers
were Howard K. Smith, ABC news
Borstedt,
Sher-

burne, Jr., director of Science Serv-

commentator; Douglas

political cartoonist; E. G.
ice, and Allan Bosworth, Virginia
author. The SIPA program, spon-
sored by the Department of Journ-
alism and Communications, in-
cluded a number of short courses,
workshops, critiques, and panel dis-

cussions designed to improve all

aspects of secondary school journe
ism—newspapers, magazines, ye
book, photography and radio wo

Scotr AWARD WINNER

Marion Lee Halford, Jr., sop
more, of Richardson, ‘Tex.,
been named a recipient of the See
Paper Company Foundation Awat
lor Leadership. Halford, who
his 314 semesters at Washingt
and Lee has engaged in many
tivities while maintaining an #
average, will receive grants {r6
the Foundation of $1,500 for ea€
of the next two academic yeat
The Scott Paper Company Foune
tion Award, established in 196
goes to an outstanding student wh
has indicated his intention to p
sue a career in industry or COm
merce. The recipient also is offeré
Scott Pap
summit
months while he is participating

employment by the

Company during the

the program.

ORDER OF THE

Coir INITIATION

U. S. District Judge Walter
Hoffman of Norfolk was initial

into the Washington and Lee UE

THE ALUMNI MAGAZI

ersity Chapter of The Order of
\

she Coil, national legal honor so-
ciety- J dge Hoffman, a 1931 grad-
nate of the University Law School,
was initiated with six law students:
ronald Bacigal of Pittsburgh, Pa.;

Nortolk, Va.:

Barbourville,

peter Martone ol

Ronald
Ky.; Robert Payne of Lexington,

Vloore ol

Va., Louis Roberts, III, of Dallas,
nd James Treadway, Jr. ol

Tex.;
Union, 5. ©.

TuCKER LECTURER

Dean Hardy Cross Dillard of the
University of Virginia Law School
delivered the 19th John Randolph
Tucker Lecture on Law Day, April
92, He spoke on the subject: “Law
and Conflict: Some Current Dilem-
mas.” As a new part of Law Day

activitics, the final arguments to
select representatives for the Na-
tional Moot Court Team were

heard in the Moot Courtroom be-
fore Thomas C. Gordon, Jr., justice
of the Supreme Court of Appeals
of Virginia, and Alex M. Harman,
Jr., judge of the gist Judicial Cir-
cuit of Virginia.

WEEK...

FUN AND WorK

GREEK

Washington and Lee’s 18 social
lraternities held their first Greek
Week this year. The results: nearly
S500 raised for the Cancer Fund, a
zany relay race, and a series of dis-
cussions and debates on the fra-
ternity system at Washington and
Lee. The brainchild of John M.
Holladay, senior, of
Tenn., Greek Week was sponsored
by the interfraternity Council. Dur-

Memphis,

ing one afternoon, 325 student vol-
unteers collected $793.88 for the
Cancer Fund. The next day a 14-
“vent relay race was run, including
“verythinge from a bicycle race to
dl pie-eating contest, from sinking
10 basketball free throws to ring-
‘NS Up 1,000 points on a pinball

Machine. Then the students gath-

SPRING | 967

ered in Lee Chapel to discuss ways
of improving fraternity life. Dean
of Students Edward C. Atwood, Jr.,
and several faculty members as well
as students were speakers. Uhe over-
all winner was Pi Kappa Phi, with
margin over Phi

a one point

Epsilon Pi. Beta Theta Pi was

third.

LAW ASSOCIATION OFFICERS

The Law School Association, also
meeting on campus in connection
with Law Day, elected ‘Thomas R.
McNamara, olf Norfolk, Va., as
president, succeeding Fred M. Vin-
son, Jr., of Washington, D. C. Also
elected were Marvin C. Bowling
of Richmond, Va., vice president;
Andrew W. MctThenia, Jr., ol
Alexandria, Va., secretary-treasurer;
sette L. MacCorkle, as-
Named
to the association council were Gil-
ee
Samuel L.

and Mrs.
sistant secretary-treasurer.
bert Bocetti, Greensboro,
My. Gy
Washington, D. C., John G. Fox
of Washington, D. C., John F. Kay,

Davidson of

Jr., of Richmond, Va., and Charles

T. Tucker of Norfolk, Va.

Put BETA KaAppPpA ELECTION

Eleven Washington and Lee Unt-

versity students and one recent
eraduate have been elected to mem-
bership in Phi Beta Kappa, national
honorary fraternity for scholarship.
nine aca-

Those elected include

demic seniors, Ira R. Adams ol
Closter, N. J].; Thomas C. Davis,
III, of Wilmington, Del.; John S.
Graham, III, of Richmond, Va.;
Kenneth M. Greene of Martins-
ville, Va.; John K. Hopkins ol
Annapolis, Md.; Richard S. Kurz
ol New Orleans; ‘Thomas P. Leg-
gett of Piggott, Ark.; Richard E.
Simon, Jr. of Highland Park, IIL;
and William E. ‘Torrey, III, ol
Round Hill, Va. Named from the
Law School were seniors Ronald J.
Bacigal of Pittsburgh, Pa., and
Peter W. Martone of Norfolk, Va.,
and January law graduate James C.
Treadway, Jr., of Union, S. C.

Vermont Royster, editor of the
Wall Street Journal, spoke at the
annual Phi Beta Kappa-Cincinnati
Society Convocation. (His remarks
will be presented fully in a later
issue of this magazine.)

—-

ey, aS eae in

 

Eta Bita Pie is the idea here as BeRN BoNIFANT (left) and Jerr BripGes compete in the
pie-eating contest during Greek Week.

   
   
    
     
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
 

    
 

  

ae
! JOHSSON: ual Vieinam Sacred

LOTUS IN ASEA OF FIRE rust

EXERCISE rt 3 pore ere ae CLT os AaEMNES

   
 

OF POWER iron

    
 

 

Books, Books, Books——For Sale

All books are divisible into te
classes: the books of the hour. a
the books of all time.

JOHN Rusk

URELY Ian Fleming’s Chit
Pe cine und is in R

kin’s first class (although it ma
become a children’s classic) just @
surely as Homer's Odyssey amt
Joyce's Ulysses are in Ruskin’s see
ond class.

But never mind. Go to the Wash
ington and Lee University Boo
store, and you can buy these v@
umes for a price not large am
many, many more on—well, ye
name the subject—they’ve got
or theyll get it for you.

If there is any one thing t
has set the academic year 19660
apart from all others on the Was
ington and Lee campus it has tol
the bookstore.

“At last,” goes the concens
among faculty members and Sst
dents, “the University has a decett
bookstore.”

Mrs. Robert Rushing, the ma
ager, calls it in her promotion ¢
it—and she is a promoter only
little less sanguine than the grea
Barnum himself—‘‘a_ gallimaulty
[look it up] of fine books.” It is al
of that and a lot more. It is a fu

 

place—albeit an intellectual ful

\ familiar bookstore scene: browsing and lounging. place. It is the nearest thing to

>

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

glon the | niversity has ever had
“ :

mack dab on the campus.
’ : . .
11 has been the setting of poetry

and play readings, autograph
parties, art shows, literary bull ses-

‘ons, and occasional  outcries
s .
against th Philistines. It is a place
ast

faculty members go brows-

where
ing, husbanding limited personal
hook budgets, and wrecking them

altogethe! it is a place where stu-
dents go often and in droves to
look, thumb, and buy what they
can. It is a place that makes any-
ene who respects books feel guilty
about the hooks he hasn't read.

It is a place where one browser
overhears another and wonders:
“Gertrud:
“This thing by Drury is a potboil-

Stein! My god, no!”

er.” “Peanuts has gone ape. Schulz
is a theologian now.” “Hey, you
ought to get this book, boy; it
changed my life.” This last said of
Sex and the Single Man by Albert
Ellis, Ph.D.

Mrs. Rushing is ever alert to
literary happenings and to happen-
ings in general. Let Sen. Strom

Ins

)
Thurmond complain to all the

 

world that Washington bookstores
are suppressing The Spirit of °76,
and out she comes with a special
display: “We have the book Strom
Thurmond says he can’t buy...”
Let a faculty member have a book
published; let a University artist
illustrate a magazine story; let a
literary figure visit the campus; let
the Pulitzer prizes be announced—
zap, Mrs. Rushing is out with a not-
to-be ignored display of the perti-
nent material for sale.

The bookstore’s sponsorship this
spring of a reading, via the voices
of many faculty members, of Mac-
Bird was a happening of no mean
proportions. The students at least
regarded it so. They packed duPont
Auditorium to gawk and guflaw.

On a slightly different plane but
no less popular were other memor-
able events: an autograph party at
the store’s grand opening on Nov.
3 by James Dickey, consultant in
poetry to the Library of Congress
and a winner of the National Book
Award; a poetry reading by Wash-
Lee's own

ington and Dabney

Stuart; autograph parties by Dr.

_

Forrest Pogue, Marshall's biogra-
pher, POP-author Tom Wolfe,
W&L, '52, and poet Robert Lowell;
and a panel discussion of Marat-
Sade, moderated by Dr. Albert Gor-
don, theatre director of the Uni-
versity of Toledo, in connection
with the Troubadour production
of the play at Washington and Lee.

There have been two art shows
and auctions at the bookstore—
one of works by local artists in-
cluding students and the other,
also local works, to benefit the res-
toration of Italian art damaged by
the recent floods that shook the art
world.

To be sure, books are being sold
and presumably read. Mrs. Rush-
ing reckons about 5,000 book sales
during the first five months of
operation. ‘That works out to about
three books per student. And _ cus-
tomers can buy the New York
Times, Wall Street Journal, Wash-
Post,

Dispatch, and 15 different literary

ington Richmond  Times-
magazines and journals of comment
and opinion, some of them not or-

dinarily found on newsstands, such

Porr Ropert Lowey makes a point during an autograph party at the bookstore.

*PRING 1967

as Commentary, Foreign Affairs,
Encounter, and the London Times
Literary Supplement.

‘Today the store stocks two to five
copies of about 5,000 titles, mostly
paperbacks with a scattering of
hardbounds of selected bestsellers
and books not yet available in
paperback. But any book in print,
and some out of print, are available
by special order with delivery nor-
mally within three weeks. The store
has on hand for the convenience
of book hunters hefty volumes of
Books in Print, Subject Guide to
Books in Print, and Publisher's
Trade List Annual, the catalogue
of every book publisher.

It all started when the University
had to admit that the old textbook-
supply store and snack-bar on Lee
Avenue adjacent to the Student
Union was not doing well. The old
store had only a few shelves of
paperbacks to offer students look-
ing for optional reading.

So the old dining hall between
the Freshman Dormitories and Mc-
Cormick Library, once known as
renovated to
house the University Supply Store

the Beanery, was

and snack-bar on the main floor
and the textbook division in the
basement. (Snack-bar and supply
store trade has nearly tripled at
the new location.) A completely
new one-story building was added
to the rear of the main building to
house the new bookstore. Treasurer
James Whitehead was a guiding
light in the whole development to-
gether with a bookstore committee
headed by Dr. David Sprunt and
composed of Dr. J. D. Futch, ITI,
Dr. Odell McGuire, Prof. B.S.
Stephenson, Prof. John Gunn, and
Dr. Severn Duvall.

Mrs. Rushing is assisted by Mrs.
aul Plott, secretary, and has the
part-time help of Miss Patsy Junk-
in and 10 students.

Mrs. Rushing is emphatic in her
praise of University officials’ affir-
mative attitude toward the book-
store. The University recognized

16

 

Mrs. RoBertT RUSHING
Happiness is a bookstore.

the need for the store and went
about doing it right. It did not
stint on design, furnishings, and
financial backing. And the book-
store has been free of restrictions
to try its wings in the areas of
book selection and sponsorship of
events. Critical reviews, student de-
mands, and faculty recommenda-
tions have played an important role
in book selections, and the avail-
talent has been the
source for sponsorship of special

ability of

events.

The Publications Board at the
annual Senior Banquet honored
Mrs. Rushing, and by extension
the University, by awarding her one
of the Ring-tum Phi’s awards for
outstanding service to the Univer-
sity. The citation hailed the con-
tribution the bookstore is making
to campus intellectual life.

Take it from Samuel Johnson:
“The

liberal-minded

booksellers are generous
men.” Had he
known Mrs. Rushing he may well
have added “and women.” Any-
way, the back of the old Beanery is
full of books and, best of all, book-
buyers.

 

About

the
Following
Pages

EF COMMEND the  follo
v¢ article to every Washingt
and Lee alumnus. The topic—
partnership between the Fede
government and higher educatie
is timely in that the Alug
Board of Directors recently reee
mended that the University Be
of ‘Trustees appraise Federal ¢
and loan programs which may
available to help improve or
pand the University’s buildings ¢
facilities. .
The article discusses the a
ments for and against Federal ¢
traces its development, outlines
philosophy behind it, singles ¢
danger signals, and suggests me
of overcoming the perils. The ¢
“... the contin
tion and probably the enlargem
of the partnership between the F
eral government and higher edu
tion appears to be inevitable.

clusion is that

real task facing the nation is
make it work.” And McGeot
Bundy, head of the Ford Foun
tion, calls the partnership “a g
adventure in the purpose and f
formance of a free people.”
The article was prepared for
in alumni and university magazill
by Editorial Projects for Educati
an organization associated witht
American Alumni Council.
The views expressed do not
flect the official policies of Wé
ington and Lee University.
they are views which should
known and discussed by everyé
who values the role of higher
ucation in American society t

‘THe Epire

E> bP

THE ALUMNI MAGAZE

 

America’s colleges and universities,
reciprents of billions in Federal funds,

have a new relationship:

Lite
with Uncle

HAT WOULD HAPPEN if all the Fed-
eral dollars now going to America’s colleges and
universities were suddenly withdrawn?

The president of one university pondered the ques-

tion briefly, then replied: ‘‘Well, first, there would

be this very loud sucking sound.”’

Indeed there would. It would be heard from
Berkeley’s gates to Harvard’s yard, from Colby,
Maine, to Kilgore, Texas. And in its wake would
come shock waves that would rock the entire estab-
lishment of American higher education.

No institution of higher learning, regardless of its
size or remoteness from Washington, can escape the
impact of the Federal government’s involvement in
higher education. Of the 2,200 institutions of higher
learning in the United States, about 1,800 partici-
Pate in one or more Federally supported or spon-
sored programs. (Even an institution which receives
no Federal dollars is affected—for it must compete
lor faculty, students, and private dollars with the
iMstitutions that do receive Federal funds for such
things, )
Hence, although hardly anyone seriously believes
that Federal spending on the campus is going to stop
even decrease significantly, the possibility, how-
“ver remote, is enough to send shivers down the na-
ak academic backbone. Colleges and universities
ate on such tight budgets that even a relatively
ight ebb in the flow of Federal funds could be
“nous. The fiscal belt-tightening in Washington,
“used by the war in Vietnam and the threat of in-
“tion, has already brought a financial squeeze to
Ne institutions.

 

A look at what would happen if all Federal dollars
were suddenly withdrawn from colleges and univer-
sities may be an exercise in the absurd, but it drama-
tizes the depth of government involvement:
> The nation’s undergraduates would lose more
than 800,000 scholarships, loans, and work-study
grants, amounting to well over $300 million.
> Colleges and universities would lose some $2 bil-
lion which now supports research on the campuses.
Consequently some 50 per cent of America’s science
faculty members would be without support for their
research. They would lose the summer salaries which
they have come to depend on—and, in some Cases,
they would lose part of their salaries for the other
nine months, as well.
> The big government-owned research laboratories
which several universities operate under contract
would be closed. Although this might end some
management headaches for the universities, it would
also deprive thousands of scientists and engineers
of employment and the institutions of several million
dollars in overhead reimbursements and fees.
> The newly established National Foundation for
the Arts and Humanities—for which faculties have
waited for years—would collapse before its first
grants were spent.
> Planned or partially constructed college and uni-
versity buildings, costing roughly $2.5 billion, would
be delayed or abandoned altogether.
> Many of our most eminent universities and medi-
cal schools would find their annual budgets sharply
reduced—in some cases by more than 50 per cent.
And the 68 land-grant institutions would lose Fed-

A partnership of brains, money, and mutual

eral institutional support which they have been re-
celving since the nineteenth century.

> Major parts of the anti-poverty program, the new
GI Bill, the Peace Corps, and the many other pro-
grams which call for spending on the campuses would
founder.

HE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT is now the “Big
Spender” in the academic world. Last year, Wash-
ington spent more money on the nation’s campuses
than did the 50 state governments combined. The
National Institutes of Health alone spent more on
educational and research projects than any one
state allocated for higher education. The National
Science Foundation, also a Federal agency, awarded
more funds to colleges and universities than did
all the business corporations in America. And the
U.S. Office of Education’s annual expenditure in
higher education of $1.2 billion far exceeded all
gifts from private foundations and alumni. The
$5 billion or so that the Federal government will
spend on campuses this year constitutes more than
25 per cent of higher education’s total budget.

About half of the Federal funds now going to
academic institutions support research and research-
related activities—and, in most cases, the research is
in the sciences. Most often an individual scholar,
with his institution’s blessing, applies directly to
a Federal agency for funds to support his work. A
professor of chemistry, for example, might apply to
the National Science Foundation for funds to pay for
salaries (part of his own, his collaborators’, and his
research technicians’), equipment, graduate-student
stipends, travel, and anything else he could justify
as essential to his work. A panel of his scholarly
peers from colleges and universities, assembled by
NSF, meets periodically in Washington to evaluate
his and other applications. If the panel members
approve, the professor usually receives his grant and
his college or university receives a percentage of the
total amount to meet its overhead costs. (Under
several Federal programs, the institution itself can

Every institution, however small or remote, feels the
effects of the Federal role in higher education.

are few activities on a campus that are not elig

 
    
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
    
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
    

request funds to help construct buildings and gr
to strengthen or initiate research programs.) ~~

The other half of the Federal government's
penditure in higher education is for student aid,
books and equipment, for classroom buildings, I;
ratories, and dormitories, for overseas projects,
—recently, in modest amounts—for the gen
strengthening of the institution. :

There is almost no Federal agency which does
provide some funds for higher education. And f

for some kind of government aid.

LEARLY our colleges and universities 1
depend so heavily on Federal funds to help pay
salaries, tuition, research, construction, and ope
ing costs that any significant decline in Federal ,
port would disrupt the whole enterprise of Ameri
higher education. |

To some educators, this dependence is a threa
the integrity and independence of the colleges
universities. “It is unnerving to know that our!
tem of higher education is highly vulnerable to
whims and fickleness of politics,” says a man ¥
has held high positions both in government ant
the campus. ;

Others minimize the hazards. Public institutit
they point out, have always been vulnerable i in)

 

ATE

sel
maT,
iii) G : Pre

er
Diy Roe G ya

JES
cit

Te
Ades
see WANNA
ee * NNN re
Aaa E \\\\ ee
za
Naneaten ns ey

ofr r

Tr
J -
Ei er
-

Copyright 1967 by Editorial Projects for

  

 

_ace—yet look how they’ve flourished. Congress-

n, in fact, have been conscientious in their ap-
roach to Federal support of higher education; the
roblem is that standards other than those of the
_yniversities and colleges could become the deter-
mining factors in the nature and direction of Federal
support. In any case, the argument runs, all aca-
demic institutions depend on the good will of others
‘9 provide the support that insures freedom. Mc-
George Bundy, before he left the White House to
head the Ford Foundation, said flatly: ““American
higher education is more and not less free and strong
because Of Federal funds.’’ Such funds, he argued,
actually have enhanced freedom by enlarging the
opportunity of institutions to act; they are no more
tainted than are dollars from other sources; and the
way in which they are allocated is closer to academic
tradition than is the case with nearly all other major
sources of funds.

The issue of Federal control notwithstanding,
Federal support of higher education is taking its
place alongside military budgets and farm subsidies
as one of the government’s essential activities. All
evidence indicates that such is the public’s will.
Education has always had a special worth in this
country, and each new generation sets the valuation
higher. In a recent Gallup Poll on national goals,
Americans listed education as having first priority.
Governors, state legislators, and Congressmen, ever
sensitive to voter attitudes, are finding that the im-
provement of education is not only a noble issue on
which to stand, but a winning one.

The increased Federal interest and support reflect

DRAWINGS BY DILL COLE

a bh,

another fact: the government now relies as heavily
on the colleges and universities as the institutions
do on the government. President Johnson told an
audience at Princeton last year that in “‘almost every
field of concern, from economics to national security,
the academic community has become a central in-
strument of public policy in the United States.”

Logan Wilson, president of the American Council
on Education (an organization which often speaks
in behalf of higher education), agrees. “‘Our history
attests to the vital role which colleges and universities
have played in assuring the nation’s security and
progress, and our present circumstances magnify
rather than diminish the role,” he says. ‘‘Since the
final responsibility for our collective security and
welfare can reside only in the Federal government,
a close partnership between government and higher
education is essential.”

HE PARTNERSHIP indeed exists. As a re-
port of the American Society of Biological Chemists
has said, ‘“‘the condition of mutual dependence be-

GG ¢

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
   
  

    
 
   

etd
NL

YR Ps
Settsoee
’ avr “**

iY

 

Aad ote +
AUD 4

it
Pha

1?

    
  
 
 

m7
i}

UE
Ei) y

  
 
 

  
 

i

40 |

i

   

Hi

tween the Federal government and institutions of
higher learning and research is one of the most
profound and significant developments of our time.”

Directly and indirectly, the partnership has pro-
duced enormous benefits. It has played a central
role in this country’s progress in science and tech-
nology—and hence has contributed to our national
security, our high standard of living, the lengthen-
ing life span, our world leadership. One analysis
credits to education 40 per cent of the nation’s
growth in economic productivity in recent years.

Despite such benefits, some thoughtful observers
are concerned about the future development of the
government-campus partnership. They are asking
how the flood of Federal funds will alter the tradi-
tional missions of higher education, the time-honored
responsibility of the states, and the flow of private
funds to the campuses. They wonder if the give and
take between equal partners can continue, when one
has the money and the other “only the brains.”

Problems already have arisen from the dynamic
and complex relationship between Washington and
the academic world. How serious and complex such
problems can become is illustrated by the current
controversy over the concentration of Federal re-
search funds on relatively few campuses and in
certain sections of the country.

The problem grew out of World War II, when the
government turned to the campuses for desperately
needed scientific research. Since many of the best-
known and most productive scientists were working
in a dozen or so institutions in the Northeast and a
few in the Midwest and California, more than half
of the Federal research funds were spent there.
(Most of the remaining money went to another 50
universities with research and graduate training.)

The wartime emergency obviously justified this

  
  
    
    
   
   
  
   
    
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   

The haves and have-

concentration of funds. When the war ended,
ever, the lopsided distribution of Federal reg
funds did not. In fact, it has continued right
the present, with 29 institutions receiving more
50 per cent of Federal research dollars.
To the institutions on the receiving end, the;
tion seems natural and proper. They are, afte
the strongest and most productive research ¢¢
in the nation. The government, they argue,
obligation to spend the public’s money where |
yield the highest return to the nation.
The less-favored institutions recognize
ligation, too. But they ‘maintain that it is
important to the nation to develop new institt
of high quality—yet, without financial help
Washington, the second- and third-rank instity
will remain just that.
In late 1965 President Johnson, in a memore
to the heads of Federal departments and age
acknowledged the importance of maintaining;
tific excellence in the institutions where it now¢
But, he emphasized, Federal research funds §
also be used to strengthen and develop new
of excellence. Last year this “spread the w
movement gained momentum, as a numb
agencies stepped up their efforts to broade
distribution of research money. The Departm
Defense, for example, one of the bigger pu
of research, designated $18 million for this acé
year to help about 50 widely scattered institt
develop into high-grade research centers. But
economies induced by the war in Vietnam,
doubtful whether enough money will be ava
in the near future to end the controversy.
Eventually, Congress may have to act.
doing, it is almost certain to displease, and pei
hurt, some institutions. To the pessimist, the |
tion is a sign of troubled times ahead. To th
timist, it is the democratic process at work. —

}

q

ECENT STUDENT DEMONSTRATIONS
dramatized another problem to which the pa
ship between the government and the campw
contributed: the relative emphasis that is f

 
 

mpele for limated funds

on research and on the teaching of undergraduates.
wisconsin’s Representative Henry Reuss con-
ucted a Congressional study of the situation. Sub-

yently he said: ‘‘University teaching has become
, sort of poor relation to research. I don’t quarrel
with the goal of excellence in science, but it is pursued
atthe expense of another important goal—excellence
of teaching. Teaching suffers and is going to suffer

3)

more. . . . . St - .
The problem is not limited to universities. It is

having a pronounced effect on the smaller liberal
arts colleges, the women’s colleges, and the junior
colleges—all of which have as their primary func-
tion the teaching of undergraduates. To offer a first-
rate education, the colleges must attract and retain
a first-rate faculty, which in turn attracts good stu-
dents and financial support. But undergraduate col-
leges can rarely compete with Federally supported
universities in faculty salaries, fellowship awards, re-
search opportunities, and plant and equipment. ‘The
president of one of the best undergraduate colleges
says: “When we do get a young scholar who skill-
fully combines research and teaching abilities, the
universities lure him from us with the promise of a
high salary, light teaching duties, frequent leaves,
and almost anything else he may want.”

Leland Haworth, whose National Science Founda-
tion distributes more than $300 million annually
lor research activities and graduate programs on the
campuses, disagrees. “‘I hold little or no brief,’’ he
says, “for the allegation that Federal support of re-
search has detracted seriously from undergraduate
teaching. I dispute the contention heard in some
quarters that certain of our major universities have
become giant research factories concentrating on
Federally sponsored research projects to the detri-
ment of their educational functions.’ Most univer-
sity scholars would probably support Mr. Haworth’s
“ontention that teachers who conduct research are
senerally better teachers, and that the research en-
lerprise has infused science education with new sub-
‘tance and vitality.

To get perspective on the problem, compare uni-
‘etsity research today with what it was before

orld War II. A prominent physicist calls the pre-
War days ‘‘a horse-and-buggy period.” In 1930, col-
“Ses and universities spent less than $20 million on
“lentific research, and that came largely from pri-

d

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

vate foundations, corporations, and endowment in-
come. Scholars often built their equipment from in-
geniously adapted scraps and spare machine parts.
Graduate students considered it compensation
enough just to be allowed to participate.

Some three decades and $125 billion later, there
is hardly an academic scientist who does not feel
pressure to get government funds. The chairman of
one leading biology department admits that “if a
young scholar doesn’t have a grant when he comes
here, he had better get one within a year or so or
he’s out; we have no funds to support his research.”

Considering the large amounts of money available
for research and graduate training, and recognizing
that the publication of research findings is still the
primary criterion for academic promotion, it is not
surprising that the faculties of most universities spend
a substantial part of their energies in those activities.

Federal agencies are looking for ways to ease the
problem. The National Science Foundation, for ex-
ample, has set up a new program which will make
grants to undergraduate colleges for the improve-
ment of science instruction.

More help will surely be forthcoming.

HE FACT that Federal funds have been
concentrated in the sciences has also had a pro-
nounced effect on colleges and universities. In many
institutions, faculty members in the natural sciences
earn more than faculty members in the humanities
and social sciences; they have better facilities, more
frequent leaves, and generally more influence on the
campus.

The government’s support of science can also
disrupt the academic balance and internal priorities
of a college or university. One president explained:

‘Our highest-priority construction project was a
$3 million building for our humanities departments.
Under the Higher Education Facilities Act, we could
expect to get a third of this from the Federal govern-
ment. This would leave $2 million for us to get from
private sources.

‘But then, under a new government program, the
biology and psychology faculty decided to apply to
the National Institutes of Health for $1.5 million
for new faculty members over a period of five years.
These additional faculty people, however, made it
necessary for us to go ahead immediately with our
plans for a $4 million science building—so we gave
it the No. 1 priority and moved the humanities
building down the list.

‘““We could finance half the science building’s cost
with Federal funds. In addition, the scientists pointed
out, they could get several training grants which
would provide stipends to graduate students and
tuition to our institution.

“You see what this meant? Both needs were valid
—those of the humanities and those of the sciences.
For $2 million of private money, I could either
build a $3 million humanities building or I could
build a $4 million science building, get $1.5 million
for additional faculty, and pick up a few hundred
thousand dollars in training grants. Either-or; not
both.”

The president could have added that if the scien-
tists had been denied the privilege of applying to
NIH, they might well have gone to another institu-
tion, taking their research grants with them. On the
other hand, under the conditions of the academic
marketplace, it was unlikely that the humanities
scholars would be able to exercise a similar mobility.

The case also illustrates why academic adminis-
trators sometimes complain that Federal support of
an individual faculty member’s research projects
casts their institution in the ineffectual role of a legal
middleman, prompting the faculty member to feel
a greater loyalty to a Federal agency than to the
college or university.

Congress has moved to lessen the disparity be-
tween support of the humanities and social sciences
on the one hand and support of the physical and
biological sciences on the other. It established the
National Foundation for the Arts and Humanities—
a move which, despite a pitifully small first-year al-
- location of funds, offers some encouragement. And
close observers of the Washington scene predict that

 

  
   
   
  
 
    
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
  

The affluence of reseaa

the social sciences, which have been receiving |
Federal support, are destined to get Consiga
more in the next few years. |

FFORTS TO COPE with such difficult
lems must begin with an understanding of ther
and background of the government-campus par
ship. But this presents a problem in itself, for one
counters a welter of conflicting statistics, contr
tory information, and wide differences of hy
opinion. The task is further complicated by
swiftness with which the situation contin
changes. And—the ultimate complication—the
almost no uniformity or coordination in the Fe
government’s numerous programs affecting ni
education. J
Each of the 50 or so agencies dispensing Fee
funds to the colleges and universities is respon
for its own program, and no single Federal ag
supervises the entire enterprise. (The creatio
Office of Science and Technology in 1962 represe
an attempt to cope with the multiplicity of re la
ships. But so far there has been little significant
provement.) Even within the two houses of Cong
responsibility for the government’s expenditur
the campuses is scattered among several commi
Not only does the lack of a coordinated Fee
program make‘it difficult to find a clear defini
of the government’s role in higher education,
also creates a number of problems both in Wask
ton and on the campuses. t
The Bureau of the Budget, for example, has h ;

 

 

   
 

“

,suen song to teachers

stle with several uncoordinated, duplicative Fed-
ral science budgets and with different accounting
F tems. Congress, faced with the almost impossible
)° of keeping informed about the esoteric world
af science in order to legislate intelligently, finds it
difficult to control and direct the fast-growing Fed-
eral investment in higher education. And the in-
dividual government agencies are forced to make

licy decisions and to respond to political and other

ressures without adequate or consistent guidelines
from above.

The colleges and universities, on the other hand,
must negotiate the maze of Federal bureaus with
consummate skill if they are to get their share of the
Federal largesse. If they succeed, they must then
cope with mountains of paperwork, disparate sys-
tems of accounting, and volumes of regulations that
differ from agency to agency. Considering the mag-
nitude of the financial rewards at stake, the institu-
tions have had no choice but to enlarge their ad-
ministrative staffs accordingly, adding people who
can handle the business problems, wrestle with
paperwork, manage grants and contracts, and un-
tangle Jegal snarls. College and university presidents
are constantly looking for competent academic ad-
ministrators to prowl the Federal agencies in search
of programs and opportunities in which their institu-
tions can profitably participate.

The latter group of people, whom the press calls
“university lobbyists,” has been growing in number.
At least a dozen institutions now have full-time
tepresentatives working in Washington. Many more
have members of their administrative and academic
staffs shuttling to and from the capital to negotiate
Federal grants and contracts, cultivate agency per-
‘onnel, and try to influence legislation. Still other
institutions have enlisted the aid of qualified alumni
trustees who happen to live in Washington.

HE LACK of a uniform Federal policy pre-

“nts the clear statement of national goals that might

sive direction to the government’s investments in

Sher education. This takes a toll in effectiveness

0 ©onsistency and tends to produce contradictions

a Conflicts. The teaching-versus-research contro-
Y 1s one example.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fund-rasers prowl
the Washington maze

President Johnson provided another. Last sum-
mer, he publicly asked if the country is really get-
ting its money’s worth from its support of scientific
research. He implied that the time may have come
to apply more widely, for the benefit of the nation,
the knowledge that Federally sponsored medical re-
search had produced in recent years. A wave of ap-
prehension spread through the medical schools when
the President’s remarks were reported. The inference
to be drawn was that the Federal funds supporting
the elaborate research effort, built at the urging of
the government, might now be diverted to actual
medical care and treatment. Later the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare, John W. Gardner,
tried to lay a calming hand on the medical scien-
tists’ fevered brows by making a strong reaffirmation
of the National Institutes of Health’s commitment
to basic research. But the apprehensiveness remains.

Other events suggest that the 25-year honeymoon
of science and the government may be ending. Con-
necticut’s Congressman Emilio Q. Daddario, a man
who is not intimidated by the mystique of modern
science, has stepped up his campaign to have a
greater part of the National Science Foundation
budget spent on applied research. And, despite pleas
from scientists and NSF administrators, Congress
terminated the costly Mohole project, which was
designed to gain more fundamental information
about the internal structure of the earth.

Some observers feel that because it permits and
often causes such conflicts, the diversity in the gov-
ernment’s support of higher education is a basic
flaw in the partnership. Others, however, believe
this diversity, despite its disadvantages, guarantees
a margin of independence to colleges and univer-
sities that would be jeopardized in a monolithic
‘“‘super-bureau.”’

Good or bad, the diversity was probably essential
to the development of the partnership between Wash-
ington and the academic world. Charles Kidd, ex-
ecutive secretary of the Federal Council for Science
and Technology, puts it bluntly when he points out
that the system’s pluralism has allowed us to avoid
dealing “‘directly with the ideological problem of
what the total relationship of the government and
universities should be. If we had had to face these
ideological and political pressures head-on over the

ia \ F fuk
Lone

 

et ERT St SS $2 tt ee |); a +) i 2 tes} St
th
tS ES et) es) eb}
gg ed) a, ee | +} Se |) hee)... Seabee) TTT
Tees Ste oe esses S33 sess SoS 6383508388
ALT I SR SS Se | | LL
Ce nn ae... eaase  sace 2 4 Shae!
er am :
ee SS : + tt Rn 2 3 te + St ee toy eS
ee as ttt 2 te + tt tt es ty ee
sooth" r TTTT bee ert) ed a eT ees 0=—tié VO
ar Peet 33s >t ose )0=—iiw*Gestséiat—“‘ SC! OOC8RS
I I, nee ee Oe ee eee ee, eee
TE ae abe ee eee Tt a ee oo hee TT en |S er TT
Po ES Ty ee ee + tt Ce, SS ee st + ee +
Ae So ly ghee Tae 0606©6SSE.-- Bathe 8 §6Eeere:
Ca a ty et), | et tt et tt
Te) ft) kt Pa
i aed. | | | | TIRES Sa seme haar 2.) me. ttf
Sree rey At) | | |||) eer), ee +.) es tor
ae r++) +344 see ett T art tt
PT tice, ei) )) ld). og bh) en eee)
eet emeereme ALL) } ) | ft og |) RR 20 ep eer
TT Lae
ttre
eee.

rae
SEAT NL | ) ee 01) ) | Un
Sree ll) |)! oe ke 00S) ) ee
esse Pre ts Perit, - +t ee ttt tT
tty ) se. : ++ + ++ es ft
rr he Thee)’ 8) tt) oD) 0D) ee on Ft oes
rece iil) Lt | ot) 01 01) eo

wee, | seee UN GUMRMMMMIBNIEL, «oceeee® SES EEEES Ege:

os 06=— si SSSee 0— SS ease
baer eae Waris th) tl] } | || |°| | an ee 2

eeeeerr
“ore

tener"

oy
+t. I ae
Saeed) wee.
err te
err) +  BSeaec-
>> n+ +7 tt te.
—. * oon
ot aerial
o
saeee
re
ae

Sa
ete)
Tie +44 ter
rt

0008 =Ss * 8 S58
ene ~ » 2Beee
wee
Ll **
nw he hh Le? 2 7 o
he 7 ot
ae... os
eh eet ttt
rrr)

rrr)
errr)
ear
coeur
7.
TT...
oT
TT. s
teen

—
Petite
Tite
Sot ts

rr
et eee

Tr
TT) ha
seeee
Tih

sone

 

 

Tete
*tteer
ett

 

 

 

 

 

TT Td)

««e*
rr

eo

eevee
PTT). Lae st st .
eet) eee)
tee)
TT) anne. tod
tte

Teer

 

 

 

 

" S
| eee Ol he
> ie So

 

 

Tt Tee + tt rT
euere + $s
1 +>. t+
ST eee
Tat) Pe
Pater
Loa)

rr

ee

++ ee TT
el ee).
*t) eee
+444 > ie

i ee ee dC ll UC it OCU | Le
: tr
en ees) Te =  ~ = PAAR  dldldlllU”DUlUdUlUE ee” eee
ore) eer Se i toe lll CFE
Sie. teh 6d6dUldlllCi lee E060 (i
** eee), i ee ee
sssio0=—,sC(i‘iSSSES te Ote
essse =i eee té'ZC
see
>.>) ee 5. tte ttt
seer - —
aeerr
tree  pwese naan. sees Clk eel ee (it COS
tacse0C”6—C es, ee—””~C SO
ER eee! | ee ee OE ie
eer
RR; I
+++ | ee 2
ert) ee YT tt
i} ae.

ee nwt as | Se fe
ort + . Bees ° ° peeme

| et EE) aa a | oe. 8
NT a ee ee TT eee |. a... a.

tH T+ eT TTT
LY.

| Ha i wy

ee: | ae? hl I Oe et eel

    

 

   
 
 

past few years, the confrontation probably would
have wrecked the system.”’

That confrontation may be coming closer, as Fed-
eral allocations to science and education come under
sharper scrutiny in Congress and as the partnership
enters a new and significant phase.

EDERAL AID to higher education began with
the Ordinance of 1787, which set aside public lands
for schools and declared that the ‘‘means of educa-
tion shall forever be encouraged.”’ But the two forces
that most shaped American higher education, say
many historians, were the land-grant movement of
the nineteenth century and the Federal support of
scientific research that began in World War II.

The land-grant legislation and related acts of
Congress in subsequent years established the Ameri-
can concept of enlisting the resources of higher edu-
cation to meet pressing national needs. The laws
were pragmatic and were designed to improve edu-
cation and research in the natural sciences, from
which agricultural and industrial expansion could
proceed. From these laws has evolved the world’s
greatest system of public higher education.

In this century the Federal involvement grew
spasmodically during such periods of crisis as World
War I and the depression of the thirties. But it was
not until World War II that the relationship began
its rapid evolution into the dynamic and intimate
partnership that now exists.

Federal agencies and industrial laboratories were
ill-prepared in 1940 to supply the research and
technology so essential to a full-scale war effort.
The government therefore turned to the nation’s
colleges and universities. Federal funds supported
scientific research on the campuses and built huge
research facilities to be operated by universities
under contract, such as Chicago’s Argonne Labora-
tory and California’s laboratory in Los Alamos.

So successful was the new relationship that it
continued to flourish after the war. Federal re-
search funds poured onto the campuses from military
agencies, the National Institutes of Health, the
Atomic Energy Commission, and the National
Science Foundation. The amounts of money in-
creased spectacularly. At the beginning of the war
the Federal government spent less than $200 million
a year for all research and development. By 1950,
the Federal ‘“‘r & d’’ expenditure totaled $1 billion.

The Soviet Union’s launching of Sputnik jolted

 

 

7)
vv a

  
 

 

 
 

i” SATA tt ae :

; ss
“as

a a * a) = Got "
se ae : - = cs
: “gates: = << Ss
i ate 3 <a
. oo5 ess % Ey x iy

tT a5 % Pe EPS eG

KA AD Lyi.) DQ ue
ip Ay

 
  
 

Even those campuses which traditionally stand.
from government find it hard to resist Federal aig

    
 
  

  

the nation and brought a dramatic surge in su]
of scientific research. President Eisenhower na
James R. Killian, Jr., president of Massach
stitute of Technology, to be Special Assistant t
President for Science and Technology. The Nat |
Aeronautics and Space Administration was es
lished, and the National Defense Education A
1958 was passed. Federal spending for scient ifi
search and development increased to $5.8 b
Of this, $400 million went to colleges and unit
ties.

The 1960’s brought a new dimension to hal
tionship between the Federal government and hi
education. Until then, Federal aid was almost
onymous with government support of science,
all Federal dollars allocated to campuses we
meet specific national needs.

There were two important exceptions: the GI
after World War II, which crowded the colleges
universities with returning servicemen and spent
billion on educational benefits, and the National.
fense Education Act, which was the broadest le
lation of its kind and the first to be based, at]
in part, on the premise that support of educatio
self is as much in the national interest as vi
which is based on the colleges’ contributions tos
thing as specific as the national defense.

The crucial turning-points were reached in
Kennedy-Johnson years. President Kennedy 4
‘We pledge ourselves to seek a system of higher é

    
 
 
 
 

   
   
 
 
 

   
 
 

    
  
 

 
  
    
    
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 

  
 
   
 
 
 

   
 
 
   
 
 

  
 
       
 

|
ORES

OO
PEE ZOE
mi tt Re htt
ak, >.

=< °

< ee gssee

ee a ee PTT

om iS Se Prt ~

‘Se C Rte ee eee ~~ ~~ taasesee
ed \

sation where every young American can be edu-
cated, not according to his race or his means, but
according to his capacity. Never in the life of this
country has the pursuit of that goal become more
important or more urgent.” Here was a clear na-
onal commitment to universal higher education, a
public acknowledgment that higher education is
worthy of support for its own sake. The Kennedy
and Johnson administrations produced legislation
which authorized:

> $1.5 billion in matching funds for new con-
struction on the nation’s Campuses.

> $151 million for local communities for the build-
ing of junior colleges.

> $432 million for new medical and dental schools
and for aid to their students.

> The first large-scale Federal program of under-
graduate scholarships, and the first Federal package
combining them with loans and jobs to help indi-
vidual students.

> Grants to strengthen college and university li-
braries.

> Significant amounts of Federal money for
“promising institutions,” in an effort to lift the entire
system of higher education.

> The first significant support of the humanities.

In addition, dozens of ‘“‘Great Society” bills in-
cluded funds for colleges and universities. And their
number is likely to increase in the years ahead.

The full significance of the developments of the
Past few years will probably not be known for some
time. But it is clear that the partnership between the

2
4 at et re Tt Tt
ett tt ttt ht
*

Ly iat f
CfA Oy
Sf 3 SY Ae

SUVA ate

_-***

et
ae

 

Federal government and higher education has en-
tered a new phase. The question of the Federal gov-
ernment’s total relationship to colleges and univer-
sities avoided for so many years—has still not been
squarely faced. But a confrontation may be just
around the corner.

HE MAJOR PITFALL, around which Presi-
dents and Congressmen have detoured, is the issue
of the separation of state and church. The Constitu-
tion of the United States says nothing about the Fed-
eral government’s responsibility for education. So
the rationale for Federal involvement, up to now,
has been the Constitution’s Article I, which grants
Congress the power to spend tax money for the com-
mon defense and the general welfare of the nation.

So long as Federal support of education was spe-
cific in nature and linked to the national defense,
the religious issue could be skirted. But as the em-
phasis moved to providing for the national welfare,
the legal grounds became less firm, for the First
Amendment to the Constitution says, in part, “‘Con-
gress shall make no law respecting an establishment
of religion. ...”’

So far, for practical and obvious reasons, neither
the President nor Congress has met the problem
head-on. But the battle has been joined, anyway.
Some cases challenging grants to church-related col-

A new phase in government-campus relationships

Is lugher education losing control of tts desti

leges are now in the courts. And Congress is being
pressed to pass legislation that would permit a cit-
izen to challenge, in the Federal courts, the Con-
gressional acts relating to higher education.

Meanwhile, America’s 893 church-related colleges
are eligible for funds under most Federal programs
supporting higher education, and nearly all have
received such funds. Most of these institutions would
applaud a decision permitting the support to con-
tinue.

Some, however, would not. The Southern Baptists
and the Seventh Day Adventists, for instance, have
opposed Federal aid to the colleges and universities
related to their denominations. Furman University,
for example, under pressure from the South Carolina
Baptist convention, returned a $612,000 Federal
grant that it had applied for and received. Many
colleges are awaiting the report of a Southern Bap-
tist study group, due this summer.

Such institutions face an agonizing dilemma:
stand fast on the principle of separation of church
and state and take the financial consequences, or
join the majority of colleges and universities and
risk Federal influence. Said one delegate to the
Southern Baptist Convention: ‘““Those who say we’re
going to become second-rate schools unless we take
Federal funds see clearly. I’m beginning to see it so
clearly it’s almost a nightmarish thing. I’ve moved
toward Federal aid reluctantly; I don’t like it.”

Some colleges and universities, while refusing
Federal aid in principle, permit some exceptions.
Wheaton College, in Illinois, is a hold-out; but it
allows some of its professors to accept National
Science Foundation research grants. So does Rock-
ford College, in Illinois. Others shun government
money, but let their students accept Federal schol-
arships and loans. The president of one small church-
related college, faced with acute financial problems,
says simply: ‘‘The basic issue for us is survival.”’

ECENT FEDERAL PROGRAMS have sharp-
ened the conflict between Washington and the
states in fixing the responsibility for education.
Traditionally and constitutionally, the responsibility
has generally been with the states. But as Federal
support has equaled and surpassed the state alloca-

  
  
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
    
  
   
 
 
  
   

tions to higher education, the question of a
bility is less clear. |
The great growth in quality and Ph.D. prod
of many state universities, forinstance, is undoy|
due in large measure to Federal support.
dollars pay for most of the scientific research jy
universities, make possible higher salaries wh
tract outstanding scholars, contribute substay
to new buildings, and provide large amoy
student aid. Clark Kerr speaks of the “F
grant university,’ and the University of
(which he used to head) is an apt example;
half of its total income comes from Washingtg
To most governors and state legislators, th
eral grants are a mixed blessing. Although the
helped raise the quality and capabilities of st,
stitutions, the grants have also raised the press
state governments to increase their appropri
for higher education, if for no other reason tt
fulfill the matching requirement of many Fi
awards. But even funds which are not char
through the state agencies and do not req
state to provide matching funds can give imp
increased appropriations for higher education
eral research grants to individual scholars,
ample, may make it necessary for the state t
vide more faculty members to get the teaching

    
 

SO)
A

‘

‘ ig
et
=e

SS 7

S

x

“s

sn
ws
NG
WN
ey,
‘sh

>
Ce
a

rt, ‘_*
4 LS
>>
Af,
SS
_

OP ty

TPP
~~
(A
S

Ait
GSTS PA.
aS

Te ;
Oe
ote —

a
Say
ed)

re

7 ae

hd Ad

‘Many institutions not only do not look a gift
in the mouth; they do not even pause to note
it 1s a horse or a boa constrictor.’>—JOHN GAR

 
  
  
 

st year, 38 states and territories joined the

ct for Education, an interstate organization
._ sed to provide “‘close and continuing consulta-
é g our several states on all matters of educa-

jon amon '
: The operating arm of the Compact will gather

’

—.
sqformation, conduct research, seek to improve
andards, propose policies, ‘‘and do such things as

;

be necessary or incidental to the administra-

39

gon of its authority... .
Although not spelled out in the formal language
the document, the Compact is clearly intended

able the states to present a united front on the

to en
f Federal aid to education.

future

 
   
   
   
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
  
 
 

N TYPICALLY PRAGMATIC FASHION, we Ameri-
cans want our colleges and universities to serve the
public interest. We expect them to train enough
doctors, lawyers, and engineers. We expect them to

vide answers to immediate problems such as
water and air pollution, urban blight, national
defense, and disease. As we have done so often in
the past, we expect the Federal government to build
acreative and democratic system that will accom-
plish these things.
A faculty planning committee at one university
stated in its report: ‘ .. . A university is now re-
garded as a symbol for our age, the crucible in which
—by some mysterious alchemy—man’s long-awaited
Utopia will at last be forged.”

Some think the Federal role in higher education
is growing too rapidly.

As early as 1952, the Association of American Uni-
versities’ commission on financing higher education
warned: ‘‘We as a nation should call a halt at this
lime to the introduction of new programs of direct
Federal aid to colleges and universities. . . . Higher
education at least needs time to digest what it has
already undertaken and to evaluate the full impact
of what it is already doing under Federal assistance.”
The recommendation went unheeded.

A year or so ago, Representative Edith Green of

€gon, an active architect of major education legis-
lation, echoed this sentiment. The time has come,
she Said, ‘‘to stop, look, and listen,” to evaluate the
M™pact of Congressional action on the educational
‘stem. It seems safe to predict that Mrs. Green’s
Warning, like that of the university presidents, will
™ to halt the growth of Federal spending on the
-“mpus. But the note of caution she sounds will be
‘Well-taken by many who are increasingly concerned

about the impact of the Federal involvement in
higher education.

The more pessimistic observers fear direct Federal
control of higher education. With the loyalty-oath
conflict in mind, they see peril in the requirement
that Federally supported colleges and universities
demonstrate compliance with civil rights legislation
or lose their Federal support. They express alarm
at recent agency anti-conflict-of-interest proposals
that would require scholars who receive government
support to account for all of their other activities.

For most who are concerned, however, the fear is
not so much of direct Federal control as of Federal
influence on the conduct of American higher educa-
tion. Their worry is not that the government will
deliberately restrict the freedom of the scholar, or
directly change an institution of higher learning.
Rather, they are afraid the scholar may be tempted
to confine his studies to areas where Federal support
is known to be available, and that institutions will
be unable to resist the lure of Federal dollars.

Before he became Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare, John W. Gardner said: ‘““When a gov-
ernment agency with money to spend approaches a
university, it can usually purchase almost any serv-
ice it wants. And many institutions still follow the
old practice of looking on funds so received as gifts.
They not only do not look a gift horse in the mouth;
they do not even pause to note whether it is a horse
or a boa constrictor.”

HE GREATEST OBSTACLE to the success of the
government-campus partnership may lie in the fact
that the partners have different objectives.

The Federal government’s support of higher
education has been essentially pragmatic. The Fed-
eral agencies have a mission to fulfill. To the degree
that the colleges and universities can help to fulfill
that mission, the agencies provide support.

The Atomic Energy Commission, for example,
supports research and related activities in nuclear
physics; the National Institutes of Health provide
funds for medical research; the Agency for Interna-
tional Development finances overseas programs.
Even recent programs which tend to recognize higher
education as a national resource in itself are basi-
cally presented as efforts to cope with pressing
national problems.

The Higher Education Facilities Act, for instance,
provides matching funds for the construction of

academic buildings. But the awards under this pro-
gram are made on the basis of projected increases
in enrollment. In the award of National Defense
Graduate Fellowships to institutions, enrollment ex-
pansion and the initiation of new graduate programs
are the main criteria. Under new programs affecting
medical and dental schools, much of the Federal
money is intended to increase the number of practi-
tioners. Even the National Humanities Endowment,
which is the government’s attempt to rectify an
academic imbalance aggravated by massive Federal
support for the sciences, is curiously and pragmati-
cally oriented to fulfill a specific mission, rather than
to support the humanities generally because they are
worthy in themselves.

Who can dispute the validity of such objectives?
Surely not the institutions of higher learning, for
they recognize an obligation to serve society by pro-
viding trained manpower and by conducting applied
research. But colleges and universities have other
traditional missions of at least equal importance.
Basic research, though it may have no apparent
relevance to society’s immediate needs, is a primary
(and almost exclusive) function of universities. It
needs no other justification than the scholar’s curi-
osity. Ihe department of classics is as important in
the college as is the department of physics, even
though it does not contribute to the national de-
fense. And enrollment expansion is neither an in-
herent virtue nor a universal goal in higher educa-
tion; in fact, some institutions can better fulfill their
objectives by remaining relatively small and selec-
tive.

Colleges and universities believe, for the most

Some people fear that the colleges and universities are
in danger of being remade in the Federal image. |

 

A 7
m ae Lee Lek
NA et De

 

    
  
  

rT
ror

tert
et) bee etser

i

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

: aa a =
= «9% ae
Srey

     
 

Gj CS 5 :
Wy

  

  
    
 
 

>

|

i

ALAA
DORA
p

|

 
 

i
\

oN

“se.

 
 

y
|
|

ill)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

me

Ml

e)
C

 

 

 

 

re |
.

   

Gor, Hees? ete, Se NT]
} tie iti eteses Wiese oe eeu TV Nan
OT Simi ATTN LIU ulin * AO “SA
WASAL PA \V Se Ta) |e ee = SW] we
Ca mn os tS oa *\)
Ny ROY SS |
ye ’ 7 ee

   

SSS
; TTT
Ad

+A Weert) 1 LLL
ame Geetitiit | ¥

. ~
rrr, yy 7
4. “yt, A hb

soe TL Mm Stitt

SMM
aad te +, iy)

Pert ete i aE

ees Peet Lr tee .

‘ eet » eet

,

 

   

    
 

{LYOYUDTOMOT NY TYTN TTT ese

  
 
  
 
 
 

that they themselves are the best judges of
: 4 they ought to do, where they would like to go,
| what their internal academic priorities are. For
, reason the National Association of State Uni-
‘ies and Land-Grant Colleges has advocated
tthe government increase its institutional (rather

individual project) support in higher education,
hus permittin g colleges and universities a reasonable
iytitude in using Federal funds. .

Congress, however, considers that it can best
getermine what the nation’s needs are, and how the
expayer’s money ought to be spent. Since there is
never enough money to do everything that cries to
sedone, the choice between allocating Federal funds
cancer research or for classics is not a very difh-
«ult one for the nation’s political leaders to make.

“The fact is,” says one professor, ‘“‘that we are
trying to merge two entirely different systems. The

mment is the political engine of our democ-

and must be responsive to the wishes of the
people. But scholarship is not very democratic. You
don’t vote on the laws of thermodynamics or take a
poll on the speed of light. Academic freedom and
tenure are not prizes in a popularity contest.”

Some observers feel that such a merger cannot be
accomplished without causing fundamental changes
ncolleges and universities. ‘They point to existing
academic imbalances, the teaching-versus-research
controversy, the changing roles of both professor
amd student, the growing commitment of colleges
and universities to applied research. They fear that
he influx of Federal funds into higher education
will so transform colleges and universities that the
‘ery qualities that made the partnership desirable
and productive in the first place will be lost.

The great technological achievements of the past
years, for example, would have been impossible
Without the basic scientific research that preceded
em. This research—much of it seemingly irrele-
Yant to society's needs—was conducted in univer-

t

 
 
    
 
   
   

nN

   
     

     

   

    

 

 

               
 
 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  
 
 

 

 

 

ff .
MR, |
Pel
NAAT

Te IM
NEE

   

‘Wc
A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Then basic objectives differ, whose will prevail?

sities, because only there could the scholar find the
freedom and support that were essential to his quest.
If the growing demand for applied research is met
at the expense of basic research, future generations
may pay the penalty.

One could argue—and many do—that colleges
and universities do not have to accept Federal funds.
But, to most of the nation’s colleges and universities,
the rejection of Federal support is an unacceptable
alternative.

For those institutions already dependent upon
Federal dollars, it is too late to turn back. Their
physical plant, their programs, their personnel
are all geared to continuing Federal aid.

And for those institutions which have received
only token help from Washington, Federal dollars
offer the one real hope of meeting the educational
objectives they have set for themselves.

OWEVER DISTASTEFUL the thought may
be to those who oppose further Federal involvement
in higher education, the fact is that there is no other
way of getting the job done—to train the growing
number of students, to conduct the basic research
necessary to continued scientific progress, and to
cope with society’s most pressing problems.

Tuition, private contributions, and state alloca-
tions together fall far short of meeting the total cost
of American higher education. And as costs rise, the
gap is likely to widen. ‘Tuition has finally passed the
$2,000 mark in several private colleges and univer-
sities, and it is rising even in the publicly supported
institutions. State governments have increased their
appropriations for higher education dramatically,
but there are scores of other urgent needs competing
for state funds. Gifts from private foundations, cor-

 

 

— |

 

 

 

8
ee

 

 

 

 

i
iC
i |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LUGO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

porations, and alumni continue to rise steadily, but
the increases are not keeping pace with rising costs.

Hence the continuation and probably the enlarge-
ment of the partnership between the Federal gov-
ernment and higher education appears to be in-
evitable. The real task facing the nation is to make
it work.

To that end, colleges and universities may have to
become more deeply involved in politics. They will
have to determine, more clearly than ever before,
just what their objectives are—and what their values
are. And they will have to communicate these most
effectively to their alumni, their political representa-
tives, the corporate community, the foundations,
and the public at large.

If the partnership is to succeed, the Federal gov-
ernment will have to do more than provide funds.
Elected officials and administrators face the awesome
task of formulating overall educational and research
goals, to give direction to the programs of Federal
support. They must make more of an effort to under-
stand what makes colleges and universities tick, and

to accommodate individual institutional differences.

HE TAXPAYING PUBLIC, and particularly
alumni and alumnae, will play a crucial role in the

 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

~"4

evolution of the partnership. The degree of
understanding and support will be reflected in f
legislation. And, along with private foundatior
corporations, alumni and other friends of h
education bear a special responsibility for proy
colleges and universities with financial support,
growing role of the Federal government, say
president of a major oil company, makes corp,
contributions to higher education more impge
than ever before; he feels that private suppor
ables colleges and universities to maintain aca¢
balance and to preserve their freedom and ind
dence. The president of a university agrees: ©
essential that the critical core of our college
universities be financed with non-Federal fur

‘‘What is going on here,”’ says McGeorge By
“is a great adventure in the purpose and pe
ance of a free people.’ The partnership bet
higher education and the Federal governmer
believes, is an experiment in American demoe

Essentially, it is an effort to combine the f
of our educational and political systems for the:
mon good. And the partnership is distinctly A
can—boldly built step by step in full public
inspired by visionaries, tested and tempere
honest skeptics, forged out of practical pe
compromise.

Does it involve risks? Of course it does. Bu
great adventure does not? Is it not by risk-t
that free—and intelligent—people progress? —

 

The report on this and the preceding 15
pages is the product of a cooperative en-
deavor in which scores of schools, colleges,
and universities are taking part. It was pre-
pared under the direction of the group listed
below, who form EDITORIAL PROJECTS FOR
EDUCATION, a non-profit organization associ-
ated with the American Alumni Council.

CHARLES M. HELMKEN
American Alumni Council
GEORGE C. KELLER
Columbia University
OHN I. MATTILL
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
KEN METZLER
The University of Oregon

RUSSELL OLIN
The University of Colorado

DENTON BEAL
Carnegie Institute of Technology
DAVID A. BURR
The University of Oklahoma
GEORGE H. COLTON
Dartmouth College
DAN ENDSLEY
Stanford University
MARALYN O. GILLESPIE
Swarthmore College

CHESLEY WORTHINGTON
Brown University

CORBIN GWALTNEY
Executive Editor

JOHN A. CROWL
Associate Editor

Naturally, in a report of such length and
scope, not all statements necessarily reflect
the views of all the persons involved, or of
their institutions. Copyright © 1967 by Edi-
torial Projects for Education, Inc. All rights
reserved; no part may be reproduced without
the express permission of the editors. Printed
in U.S.A.

JOHN W. PATON
Wesleyan University
ROBERT M. RHODES

The University of Pennsylvama

STANLEY SAPLIN
New York University
VERNE A. STADTMAN

The University of California
FREDERIC A, STOTT
Phillips Academy, Andover

   
   
   
  
 
  
 

FRANK J. TATE
The Ohio State Universit

CHARLES E. WIDMAYER
Dartmouth College —

DOROTHY F. WILL
Simmons College
RONALD A. WOLK —

The Johns Hopkins Untt
ELIZABETH BOND Woe
Sweet Briar College

*

WILLIAM A. MILLER, JR.
Managing Edttor

 

 

 

  
   
 

 

.

4 . e
‘ ees

TE
*&

   

willl

Nov ou see it...

HE MACE is safe and in its place,
oP bu flor a space, no trace, grim
face, disgrace... then Grace.

It was indeed a debasing piece
of mischief—the spiriting away ol
the University’s mace from its blue
velvet pad in its glass case in the
lobby of McCormick Library.

After all, the mace is the Univer-
sity’s official symbol ol authority.
It is carried with pomp by the Uni-
versity Marshal in academic proces-
sions and denotes that the Uni-
versity is officially in session. It is
a stately, venerable object.

The Washington and Lee mace
was designed and painted by Prof.
Marion Junkin, head of the Depart-
ment of Fine Arts. It was carved in
igh1 by Miss Mary Barclay of Lex-
ington, an accomplished sculptor ol
wood. [he mace is four-feet long,
and its head, shaped like an urn,
bears on each side the Washington
and Lee coat of arms, with its scroll
and motto non incautus futurt.

lhe thief or thieves, deleting the
on trom the motto insofar as their
behavior was concerned, did the
deed on a Sunday afternoon. Li-
Draria Henry E. Coleman discov-
fred the loss, and reported it im-
Mediately to University Proctor

» RING 1967

The Case

 

i nn ngtnetneta hnnnan a eT: ad ae) tae sir nano ¥
; eye ae ee ee ee

ee
PO i ae a

Now vou don't...

 

Of the Missing

Bob Murray, who began an investi-
gation.

Then on ‘Tuesday a_ piece olf
charred wood purported to be the
remains of the mace was deposited
on the library steps. An unprintable
message was attached. Examina-
tion proved this to be an unseemly
hoax.

The next day a janitor found a
blanket-wrapped bundle on a sola
in the Student Union. He un-
wrapped it. Inside was the mace
intact. An attached note spoke ol
a troubled conscience, remorse and
penitence.

The mace was duly returned to
its accustomed depository—but not
before a lock was installed on the
case.

A happy ending to a sorry joke.

Mace

 

 

Now vou think you do...

 

Now you see it again...

-—
ae
ae

ore
2/7 es —

‘J ‘

a)

 

DrAN CHarces P. Licur, Jr. (left) and Pror. Roperr E. R. Huntiey talk together on
the lawn in front of Tucker Hall.

At Tucker Hall

 

A Change in Command

UPRA AND INFRA, terms often
S used in legal writing, might be
applied to the impending change
in the deanship of the Washington
and Lee University School of Law.

SUPRA is embodied in Charles
P. Light, Jr., who will retire as dean
on Aug. 31. He is relinquishing his
administrative duties at his own
request and will continue to teach
full-time in his areas of special in-
terest, including administrative law,
constitutional law, federal jurisdic-
tion, and torts.

Dean Light, who is nearing his
65th birthday, has been dean for
seven years. A man of precision
and gentlemanly grace, he has nur-
tured this school’s rich heritage of
excellence and enhanced its con-
tributions to the legal profession.
He is representative of the strengths
that have characterized the school
form more than a century, SUPRA.

INFRA Is reflected by Prof. Robert

34

KE. R. Huntley, who will become
dean—the school’s 10th—on Sept.
1. At 37, Prof. Huntley combines
youthful informality with a profes-
sional seriousness that bespeaks his
dedication to the exacting process
of legal education. He is at one
with the law; he is at one with the
students. Withal, he is modest and
congenial. He is representative ol
the kind of
Washington and Lee Law School

scholar-lawyer the

produces and will strive under his
administration to continue to pro-
duce, INFRA.

Continuity, then, will charact-
erize the change in deanship—no
sharp breaks with the past and no
jarring innovations in the future.
The personalities will be different,
but the purpose and emphasis olf
the Law School will remain the
same—the provision of excellence
in the study of law.

Prof. Huntley said he desires

‘ e
oe
°F

~~ - *¥ . <

 
 
    
 
   
 
   
   

above all to preserve and Cultiva
one of the school’s most Valuah
features. [his is the close consy]

 

tion and advice the regular me
bers of the law faculty give
students in their studies. Any ¢
velopment that tends to erode
faculty-student interrelation wil] }
reason, Pye
Huntley does not forsee a drasy

resisted. For this

increase in the law student hoe
which now is pegged at about o¢
—certainly no increase that woul
require extensive sectioning ¢
courses. In Prof. Huntley's ming
a law school is too big when coy
sectioning becomes a_ pattern,

The Law School, of course, w
adjust to the demands of the tim
and embrace more effective tech
ques proven to be of value. Th
curriculum will undergo period
review to make sure that it f
fills the needs of current law 5
dents who must contend with #
legal complexities of a questing a
mobile society.

Headway will be made next vei
with the addition of two new
ulty members. These new men
teacher-studer
ratio, a major desire of the La

help reduce the
School. At the same time, two ne
courses will be introduced: ju

prudence (philosophy of the lat
to be taught by Prof. Charles

Laughlin and American legal hi
tory to be taught by Prof. Wilfré
|. Ritz. These are courses which th

Law School has long wished
offer among its electives.

The new faculty members
Andrew W. McThenia, Jr. a
Lewis Henry LaRue, both Wasl
ington and Lee graduates with
this decade. They will bring fre
experience to their teaching p
at Washington and Lee and al
youth, helping maintain that be
ance between experience and you
that is valued by the Law Scho@
Prof. Huntley noted that the facul
will now contain two former dea
Dean Light and Clayton E. W
liams, now dean, emeritus, and

THE ALUMNI MAGAZI

 

qistinguished lecturer on the law
eprops:

Mr. Mc [henia has been practic-
ing Jaw in Alexandria, Va., with
the firm 0! Boothe, Dudley, Koontz,
plankenship, and Stump. He was
praduatcd from Washington and
Lee in 1958 and from the Law
school in 1963. In the interim, he
received an M.A. in geology at
Columbia University.

Mr. LaRue has been serving in
the Civil Division of the Justice
Department in Washington. He was
graduated from Washington and
tee in 1959 and received his LL.B.
degree from Harvard Law School
in 1962.

The statement of the purpose of
the Law School was recently re-
vised to make it conform more
nearly with what the school has
been doing tor years. The old state-
ment said the purpose was to “pre-
pare its students for the practice
of law wherever the common law
prevails.” Ihe faculty decided this
was too narrow and changed it to
read: “Ihe purpose of the Law
School is to acquaint its students
with the basic principles of law and
to provide training in legal analysis
and the application of legal prin-
ciples essential to the practice of
law.” An extension of the. state-
ment recognizes that “the study of
law is also valuable in preparing
students for careers in government,
politics, and business.”

In this context, the Law School
is eager to foster more research
among its faculty and students and
‘0 provide more opportunity for
specialized study.

Prof. Huntley, therefore, hopes
the school will in the years ahead
fontinue to strengthen the oral
‘’gument, Moot Court and Law
Review programs, and the Legal
Research) Program, sponsored by
the Student Bar Association. The
latter Program is relatively new and
. taking its place beside the Moot
Court and Law Review programs
“Sone of the school’s major re-

SPRING 1967

search activities. “The issues re-
searched are not hypothetical, but
are concrete problems submitted by
practicing lawyers which have
arisen in advising their clients or
in litigating their clients’ cases. Law
School students are also eligible to
participate in the research activities
of the University’s Robert E. Lee
Research Fund, and many _ have
done so.

Meanwhile, the law faculty will
explore means of establishing a
program which would involve every
student at some point in his legal
training in a major research effort.
This would supplement existing
research programs, most of which
are restricted to students of high
academic rank.

 

Tucker Hall

Prof. Huntley said consideration
will also be given to establishing a
series of lectures or seminars in the
specialities, such as admiralty, pat-
ent, and copyright. The lecturers
would be eminent authorities in
their fields. The series would be a
regular part of the curriculum and
probably be offered on a_pass-fail
basis.

And, of course, Prof. Huntley
said, the Law School’s space re-
quirements will receive continuing
attention. One
study will be to find ways to make
the space in Tucker Hall more use-
ful without harming its charm and
character.

aspect of — this

Prof. Huntley is a native of Wins-
ton-Salem, N.C. and received his
B.A. degree from Washington and
Lee in 1950. He served three years
in the Navy and saw duty aboard
a destroyer in the Atlantic as a
lieutenant (jg).

He was graduated from the Wash-
ington and Lee Law School in 1957,
summa cum laude. In his senior
year, he received the Washington
Literary Society award “for the
most distinguished service to Wash-
ington and Lee” of any graduating
senior. He was editor of the Law
Review and vice president of the
law student body. He was elected to
Phi Beta Kappa, the Order of the
Coif, and Omicron Delta Kappa.

Until he joined the law faculty
at Washington and Lee in 1958 as
an assistant professor, he was as-
sociated with the Alexandria, Va.,
law firm of Boothe, Dudley, Koontz,
and Boothe. He was promoted to
associate professor in 1959 and_ to
professor in 1964. He has been
secretary of the Board of Trustees
since 1966 and University legal ad-
viser since 1963.

Dean Light is a native of Mar-
tinsburg, W.Va., and came to Wash-
ington and Lee in 1926 as an as-
sistant professor of law, following
graduation from the Harvard Law
School. He received his A.B. de-
gree in 1923 from Virginia Military
Institute and an M.A. from VMI
in 1928 for postgraduate work in
political science. He was promoted
to professor of law in 1937 and
became dean of the school in 1960.

Dean Light was commissioned a
second lieutenant in the Army Re-
serve in 1923. He was promoted to
major in the Judge Advocate Gen-
eral’s Department in 1940 and to
the rank of colonel in the General
Staff Corps in 1944. He was active
as a Reserve Judge Advocate until
his assignment to the Retired Re-
serve in 1960. He holds membership
in Phi Beta Kappa, the Order of
the Coif, and Omicron Delta
Kappa.

NEWS
of the
CHAPTERS

PENINSULA
® A WASHINGTON’sS Birthday Party

was the theme for the alumni
gathering at the James River Coun-
try Club on February 22, 1967.
The festivities, beautifully arranged
by Dr. Frank Beazlie, ‘40, vice-
president, and Dr. Voss Neal, °51,
secretary-treasurer, featured Dr.
Charles F.

economics at Washington and Lee,

Phillips, professor ol

as speaker. In his remarks Dr. Phil-
lips not only gave a full report on
the University but explained some
of the present student activities
and concepts. His presentation was
thorough because Dr. Phillips is
advisor to a number of student
organizations. Bill Washburn, ex-
eculive secretary, accompanied Dr.
Phillips. Dan Wilkinson, ’38, presi-
dent of the chapter, expressed ap-
preciation to the University repre-
sentatives for their visit.

GULF STREAM (MIAMI)

= ALUMNI MEMBERS, their wives and
guests, came together with the usual
Washington and Lee spirit on
February 10 at the University Club
Room of the Hotel Urmey in down-
town Miami. Arrangements for the
dinner

reception and the were

handsomely arranged by Lynn

Lummus, ‘52, and J. Alan Cross,
‘51. Among the — distinguished
alumni present was Senator Fred-
erick M. Hudson, who received an
A.B. degree in 1890 and an LL.B.
degree in 1892, both from Washing-
ton and Lee. Senator Hudson is the
oldest living graduate of Washing-
ton and Lee and was accompanied
by his daughter, Mrs. Van Brunt.

Bill Washburn, executive secretary

© ,
3 b

 

Conversing at the Peninsula chapter meeting are WILLIAM H. Forrest, JR., °55; RICHARD
W. Hupscins, 55; and FLEMING KEEFE, ‘66.

 

\t Gulf Stream meeting, WALLACE RUFF,

talks with SenATror F. M. Hupson, ‘Qo,

the University’s oldest living graduate, and Senator Hudson’s daughter, Mrs. VAN Brunt,

 

 

 

\lso at the Gulf Stream meeting were WARREN R. We tsu, ’61L, Mrs. Wecsu, and ROBERE
\. (PHIL) PHELON, ‘58. j

©

of the Alumni Association, pre-
sented color slides of the campus
many of which were snow scenes,
which, he stated, accentuated his
joy of visiting in Miami. Wash-
burn’s report on the University
was enthusiastically received.

SAVANNAH RIVER

@® WITH TRADITIONAL fanfare and

spirit, the organization of the Sa-
vannah River Chapter took place
in Augusta, Georgia, on March 22.
Meeting at the Town ‘Tavern for

0
Ig

a social reception and dinner, the
alumni from the surrounding aie@
saw Bill Washburn, executive S66
retary of the Washington and E@
Alumni Association, present the
certificate of organization to H.
ludor Hall, III, 60. Hall, an &
ecutive of the Georgia Railroad
Bank and Trust Company, W®
named as the first president of the

Colored

slides of the campus, sports, 4

newly formed chapter.
class room activities were show?

and Washburn made a brief report

  

THE ALUMNI MAGAZIS

 

on the current University program.

in addition to the Augusta repre-
ntation there were alumni from

gC ist

|

orangeburg, Batesburg, and Aiken,
‘ o

south ‘ irolina, present. Among
yveral toasts offered to properly
sc P d

jaunch th chapter, there were ex-

yessions Ol deep appreciation to

pudol Hall for his efforts in ac-
complishing the organization. ‘Che
new president announced he would
appoin! a program and other ap-
propria! committees in the near

future.

AUGUSLTA-ROCKINGHAM

s THE DEAN Ol the Law School,
Robert E. R. Huntley, was guest
speake! Al
Friday evening,

Waynesboro, Virginia. ‘The recep-

an alumni meeting on

April 14, 1n

tion and banquet were held at the
General Wayne Hotel with Presi-
dent Richard ‘T. Sloan, ’42, presid-
ing. Arrangements were handled by
Raymond Freed, °48, Waynesboro
\mong the distinguished
alumni was R. S. “Cap’n Dick”
Smith, ‘19. Dick,
athletic director at Washington and

attorney.

Cap'n former
Lee and now retired in Lexington.
accompanied Mr. Huntley and Bill
Washburn to the meeting. Mr.
Smith, a former resident of Waynes-
boro, had lived in a home on the
site of the present General Wayne
Hotel. In his report on the Uni-
versity, Mr. Huntley reviewed the
present and future programs at the
Law School. His remarks were eag-
erly received. In the short business
session, the following officers were
elected for the new year: Raymond
E. Freed, ’48-L, Waynesboro, presi-
dent; Robert L. Rhea, ’58-L, Staun-
ton, vice-president, and William B.
Gunn, *42-A.

lary-tr¢ aSurer,

Harrisonburg, secre-

RICHMOND

S EVERY ELEGANT detail from can-
delight to “The Swing’ was fea-
‘ured at Richmond’s Formal Din-
her Dance, Friday evening, March
3. The |

ixth annual dinner dance,

>PRING | 967

 

Jacksonville meeting brought together
Jack W. BALL, °95L, and WILLIAM  S.
BuRNs, °38

an outstanding social affair for the
Richmond area, was held at the
Country Club of Virginia. Group
table reservations were filled weeks
in advance and the event was “‘one
of the most successful” stated Lee
A. Putney, ’53, chapter president.
In addition to Mr. and Mrs. Putney
acting as ofhcial hosts were the
officers of the chapter: Mr. and Mrs.
Robert J. Smith, '50, vice-president;
Mr. and Mrs. William H. Abeloff,
'57, secretary; and Mr. and Mrs.
Tyson L. Janney, ‘53, treasurer.
Music was supplied by Jim Black’s
orchestra and the cocktail lounge
arranged on the club’s lovely ter-
race provided an attractive atmos-
phere.

’

JACKSONVILLE

@ THE SETTING FOR the February 8
meeting of the alumni was the
exquisite Florida Yatch Club with
arrangements having been beauti-
fully managed by Haywood Ball,
‘61, and Charlie Commander, ‘62.
Alumni, parents, and guests en-
joyed a delightful social hour prior
to the dinner at which Frank Sur-
face, ‘60, chapter president, pre-
sided. Bill
secretary of the Alumni Association,

Washburn, executive
was guest speaker and his remarks
were punctuated with a set of color
slides of the campus. Plans were
announced for a chapter welcome,
later in the Spring, for those new
students entering as freshmen.

PALM BEACH-
Rl. LAUDERDALE

® OBVIOUSLY ESCAPING the winter
snow, Bill Washburn, our executive
secretary, was guest of honor at
a delightlul alumni meeting on

Thursday evening, February 9.
The chapter members and_ their
wives and guests gathered for cock-
tails and dinner at Stouffer’s Res-
taurant in the Holiday Inn in West
Palm Beach. The very warm re-
ception accorded Bill and his color
slides of the campus was matched
by the delightful weather and warm
hospitality of the alumni. Manley
P. Caldwell, Jr., attorney and presi-
dent of the chapter, made the ar-
rangements and emceed the meet-

ing.

 

At the Palm Beach-Ft. Lauderdale meeting are JupGe D. CULVER SMirH, a member of
the Parents’ Advisory Council; HuGuH S. GLICKTEIN, 53; and Mrs. SMITH.

37

In this convivial group at the Louisville meeting are W. C.

LOUISVILLE

@ ALUMNI OF THE Louisville, Ken-
tucky, area met for a luncheon on
Robert E. Lee’s birthday, January
1g, at the Pendennis Club. Bill
Washburn, executive secretary of
the Alumni Association, was the

guest speaker. President of the
chapter, John R. Farmer, presided
at the meeting, which also had on
the program reports from the trea-
surer and from Mr. George Burks,
speaking for the recruitment com-
mittee. Among those distinguished
alumni attending the luncheon
were Mr. Farris A. Sampson, ’og,
and Mr. William L.

Plans were announced for a further

Hoge, ‘o6.

meeting of the alumni some time
in the spring.

ATLANTA

# THE BALLROOM of the Bel Air
Hotel was the setting of a signifi-
cant meeting of the Atlanta chap-
ter on the evening of March 25.
The main purpose was to introduce
prospective qualified students to
Washington and Lee, a_ theme
which had been suggested earlier
by Dean Emeritus Frank J. Gilliam.
A committee composed of Thomas
B. Branch, '58; Frank Carter, °49;

John H. Candler, ’58; T. Hal
Clarke, “38L; Richard A. Denny,
Jr., “62; William W. Dixon, ’56;

a8

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Henry W. Grady, Jr., 53, ar-
ranged the meeting. More than 150
alumni, prospective students, their
parents and current W&L students
attended. Washington and Lee stu-
dents who spoke were Paul Atwater
on the honor system and traditions;
David Field on academics; Charles
Yates on athletics; and Barry
Vaught on fraternities. Mr. Denny
showed a film strip provided by the

WASHBURN, ‘40, the speaker; Farris A. SAMPSON, ‘03; WILLIAM L, He
06, JOHN R. FARMER, ‘61, chapter president; and Grorce E. Burks, '2

\t a special meeting for prospective students in Atlanta, FRANK CARTER,
chapter president, and RicHArD A. DENNY, JR.,

     
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
    
 
 

/°

alumni office after Mr. Carter, cha
ter president, introduced the thep
ol the meeting. Mr. Candler, seq
tary, reported that the prospect
students were able to hear of
University via the first-hand repo
of current students who “hand
themselves —commendably.”

Clarke, vice president, closed
meeting, “considered by all to

most successful.’’

    

 

‘49, (righ

‘52, introduce the program.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZI

   
 

tthe \

  

Ri a

 

CLASS NOTES

1906

The medical society and his fellow’ sur-
geons in Montgomery, Alabama, have
recently honored Dr. T. BRANNON Hup-
garp, Sk., for his long years of outstand-
ing service lo the medical profession. The
rotary Club and various medical societies
have extended a week of parties and
events saluting him as a medical states-
man. Dr. Hubbard expresses the thought
that most of the physical woes of human-
ity are brought about by overindulgence
in eating. After graduation from Wash-
ington and Lee, Dr. Hubbard went to
the College of Physicians and Surgeons
at Columbia University and later did his
internship at St. Luke’s Hospital in New
York. He returned to Montgomery in
igig where he has practiced for more
than half a century except for two years
in the army.

1914

After a third of a century of surgical
practice in Charlotte, North Carolina, Dr,
R. B. Mcknicut has retired to Tarheeland
Acres in Charlotte, North Carolina. Dur-
ing his latter years, most of Dr. Mce-
Knight's surgery paid special attention
to goiters. He had a _ record of 3,000
thyroidectomies. Dr. McKnight has con-
tinued an intense interest in youth. For
over twenty years he supplied free service
to the high school athletes of Charlotte,
North Carolina. He holds high offices
in the Sigma Chi fraternity and he served
the State of North Carolina and the City
of Charlotte as a library trustee for many
years. Dr. and Mrs. McKnight have two
sons, one of whom is an attorney and the
other a physician.

CHARLES Dowp Gray is president of Gray
© Daniel, Inc., a textile selling agency in
Gastonia, North Carolina. For some years
he has been chairman of the U.S. Sav-
ings Bond Committee for Gaston County,
4 member of the North Carolina State
Ports Authority, and chairman of the
Advisory Council of Belmont Abbey Col-
lege. Mr. G ray was the first president of
the Gastonia Country Club in 1920 and
has served on the Board of Directors al
*veral textile corporations,

1918

fifty years in the school equipment

SPRING

After

1967

and supply business in Chicago and Pitts-
burgh, Braprorp L. THompson has re-
tired although he continues as a_con-
sultant in the business and is subject to
special assignments. He is now occupied
in the preparation of a new catalogue

for his firm.
1919

Tre Rev. TPHropore H. Evans will retire
this summer and expects to reside in
Alexandria, Virginia. His son, the Rev
Theodore Evans, Jr., has just returned
from Saigon where he was rector of St.
Christopher’s Church for four years. The
Evans’ daughter, Polly, lives in New
Hope, Pennsylvania, where her husband,
David Lishan, teaches at Solebury School.
Their daughter, Jean, is a social worker
in Worcester, Massachusetts.

1920

A real estate appraiser, Eowarp G. BAILEY
states that his work for the State Planters
Bank of Commerce and Trust in Rich-
mond, Virginia, keeps him mentally alert
and physically active. He also” makes
appraisals for the First Mortgage Corpora-
tion of Richmond and several other firms.

1922

Being retired does not slow down W. H.
Trorrer of Chattanooga, Tennessee. He
remains active in civic, welfare, and
church work. ‘The ‘Trotters have — six
grandchildren,

1923

ANpREW H. Harriss, ]R., retired assistant
to the chief engineer communications and
signaling for the Atlantic Coast Line Rail-
road, now resides in Wilmington, Dela-
ware. Mr. Harris, also a retired army
officer, is chairman of the Wilmington
Chamber of Commerce’s Retirement Com-
mittee. A study is being made to ad-
vertise the advantages of Wilmington to
retired persons. He is a vestryman in the
Episcopal Church and works in four de-
grees of Scottish Rite Masons.

THe RevereEND RAYMOND G. WICKERSHAM
is pastor of Goose Creek Presbyterian
Church which he organized in Goose
Creek, South Carolina. He is also minister

to the Presbyterian college students in
the Charleston, South Carolina, area. He
and his wife have six children. Reverend
Wickersham will attend the 1967 General
Assembly of the Presbyterian Church as
a commissioner from the Charleston Pres-
bytery,

A. C. BRYAN has become associated with
the Fidelity Trust Company of Chatta-
nooga, Tennessee, as a mortgage and
investment counselor and a_ real estate
broker. Last December Bryan retired after
31 years with the Provident Life and
Accident Insurance Co. At the time of his
retirement he was vice-president of the
mortgage loan department, and he was
paid warm tribute by the president of
Provident. He has been active in Ten-
nessee and national mortgage loan and
real estate associations for many years.

1924

EpwARD ALMER AMES, JR., is’ practicing
law at Onancock, Virginia, with the firm
of Ames & Ames, The second member of
the firm is Epwarp A. Ames, IID, 64 LL.B.
Mr. Ames has been a member of the Vir-
ginia Senate from the first senatorial dis-
trict since 1956.

1925

Dr. Herbert POLLAcK received the out-
standing Civilian Service Medal for his
services to the U. 8. Army as an adviser
to the Chief of Research and Develop-
ment. The award was presented by Gen-
eral Maxwell D. Taylor, president of the
Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA).
Among his professional affiliations are
a member of the Board of Directors of
the American Heart Association; Fellow
of the American College of Physicians;
the Medical Advisory Panel to the Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Aviation
Agency. Dr. Pollack served on the NASA
Space-Medicine Advisory Group for sev-
eral years.

While on leave from Chung Chi College
of the Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Dr. ANpbREW T. Roy taught two courses
on Social Change, Revolution, and Christ-
ian Responsibility at the Pittsburgh Theo-
logical Seminary in 1965-66. This present
year he is vice-president for Public Re-
lations of Chung Chi College and teaches
Logic and Development of Western
Social Thought. Dr. Roy is Dean of Chung
Chi Theological Seminary and is serving
as Editor-in-Chief of the Chung Chi Col-
lege Bulletin, His oldest son, David, is
teaching Chinese Literary History at
Princeton. The Roy’s second son, James,
after serving in the Embassy at Bangkok,
the Consulate at Hong Kong, and the
Embassy at Taipei, is now at the Russian
Desk in the U. S. State Department.

For the past twenty-six years Marr JEN-

39

NiINGS has served as Director of the Di-
vision of Marketing, Tennessee Depart-
ment of Agriculture. His national honors
include the presidency of the National As-
sociation of Marketing Officials and serv-
ing as vice-chairman of the National Con-
ference of Weights and Measures.

One of the leading figures in the _ field
of obstetrics and gynecology, Dr. PENDLE-
rON LOMPKINS, along with Mrs. ‘Tompkins,
was a guest of the Hospital of American
Samoa in Pago Pago during January,
1967. Dr. Tompkins was lecturer there
on modern obstetrics and gynecology and
also assisted Dr. Paul Godinet in many
operations. He is the author of several
papers written on fundamental problems
in obstetrics and gynecology. His home
is in San Francisco. Among his_profes-
sional credentials, Dr. Tompkins is a
Fellow of the American College of Sur-
geons, a Founding Fellow of the American
College of Obstetrics and Gynecology, a
Founding Fellow of the American Fer-
tility Society, a past President of the
Peninsula Gynecological Society, a fellow
of the Philadelphia College of Surgeons,
and president of Phi Beta Kappa of
Northern California,

1928

WILTON GARRISON, who recently retired
as sports editor of The Charlotte Ob-
server, and a_ non-golfer, was named
Carolina golfer of the year by the Caro-
linas’ Golf Writers Association. The former
sports writer was honored for his contri-
bution to golf over his g8-year career.
Garrison has written about all of the
great players of golf and has covered
their activities over his long years as a
writer. He began his career in Spartan-
burg, South Carolina.

1929

JAMes WILLIAM BAILeEy, JR., is with the
Reliance Equipment Corporation in Roa-
noke, Virginia. The company is one of
the largest material handling companies
in Virginia.

1930

Having begun in the real estate business
in Chicago in 1930, FRANCIS E. Scumirt left
after four years and went into the real
estate business in 1934 in the state of
Florida. Since then he has dealt in hotels
and motels, boat docks, boat sales and
supplies. In 1958 he retired and is now
living in Lantana, Florida.

1931

Ihe report of the President’s Crime Com-
mission made headlines. The supplemental
Statement made by seven commissioners
places emphasis on the protection of
American citizens from criminals. Two
of the seven distinguished commissioners
are Washington and Lee Alumni and
former presidents of the American Bar
Association. They are Lewis F. Powe tt,
. JR., '31 LLB, of Richmond and Ross L.

40

Matonr, ‘32 LLB, of Roswell, New

Mexico.
1932

After twenty-six years of service, HAVEN
WALTON retired from Alcoa Steamship
Company, Inc. He held various positions
in the United States and overseas and
particularly in South America, Walton
was Alcoa’s manager of the West Indies
headquarters in Trinidad. He is now
assistant sales manager for the Jan C,. V.
lerwyk Company, steamship agents.

1933

Ihe E. J. Ade & Company, Inc., has
been reopened by E. J. Ape. The com-
pany is a public relations firm. The
Ades have three sons and make thei
home in Tarrytown, New York.

1934

Dr. Grorce W. Price, JR., was recently
elected Chief of Staff of the Mary Block
Memorial Hospital in Spartanburg, South
Carolina.

1935

Alter many years in the insurance busi-
ness, JAMES M. FRANKLIN is completing
his seventh year with the Boy Scouts of
America. He is District Director of the
Robert ‘Treat Council in Newark, New
Jersey.

One of the top advertising executives in
the country is Epwarp L. Bonpb, JR., presi-
dent and chief executive of Young &
Rubicam of New York City. After prior
experience with Kenyon & Eckhart, Mr.
Bond began with Young & Rubicam fol-
lowing his release from World War II
duty with the Army’s 45th division. Start-
ing as an account executive his back-
ground of experience includes assign-
ments with nearly every department of
Y.XR. Recently Mr. Bond was speaker
to the Adult Club of the Community
Church of New York.

I. ROGER GRISWOLD is sales representative
for Bacon-Scott Pacific-Division of Charles
H. Bacon Company, Inc., of South Pasa-
dena, California.

PEYTON B. WINFREE, JR., is Director of
Public Relations and Advertising for the
Norfolk and Western Railway Company
with offices in Roanoke.

1936

J. WALLAcE Davies is Editor of “Here's
the Issue,” a background information bul-
letin published every other week while
Congress is in session by the Legislative
Department of the Chamber of Com-
merce of the United States, Washington,
D.C.

For twenty-five years OrAy M. Davis, JR.,
has been employed by the Federal Gov-

   
   
 
  
   
   
  
   
   
 
  
    
   
     
   
     
  
     
   
     
   
   
    

ernment and is at present with the
of Engineers in Washington, D. GC,
civil engineer. With his family he li
on a beef cattle farm in Fauquier Coup
Virginia, and is engaged in church we
Masonic work, and civic affairs,

Cuarces B. Cross, JRr., is clerk of
Circuit Court of Chesapeake, Virgiy
He is also the author of the publicagj
The County Court, 1637-1904, publish
in 1964 by the Printcraft Press.

Abert J. Durante, JRr., has been
pointed Public Relations Director of
Bourbon Institute, New York City,

19

SIDNEY Kirscu is president of Challen
Steel Products Corporation in Broo
New York, a manufacturer of steel of
furniture.

The law firm of McLaughlin & McLay
lin was formed in June, 1966, with Hey
W. McLAUGHLIN, JR., as senior pa
with his son Henry W. McLaughlin,
‘The firm is located in Halifax, Virgir

DUANE Berry is associated as an Inye
ment Executive with the firm of She
son, Hammill & Company, members
the New York Stock Exchange, in
Antonio, ‘Texas.

THOMAS D. DuRRANCE is Assistant to
Vice President, Employee and Publie¢

lations Department, The ‘Texaco )
pany, New York City.

Joun E. NEILL is vice-president of W,
Norton & Company, book publishers,
is director of the college department
the firm. He and his family live in Se@
dale, New York, where Mr. Neill is ten
chairman at the Scarsdale Golf Club.

 

ALAN BUXTON Hosses, '39

  

THE ALUMNI MAGAZI

Jupce Grorce M. Foorer,

1939

Ihe American Optical Company = an-
nounces the appointment of ALAN BUXTON
Hosses as General Counsel. Prior to join-
ing American Optical, Hobbes was As-
sistant General Counsel in charge of court
proceedings for the Federal Trade Com-
mission in Washington, He is a member
of the Bar of the Supreme Court of the
United States, the Massachusetts Bar, and
the District of Columbia Bar.

In his exciting career, FRANCIS PENDLETON
GAINES, Jx., has been a college president,
4a bank vice president, a dean of men, a
columnist and a public relations man.
Penny” s presently the Dean of the
Division oo} Continuing Education and
Summer Session at the University of Ari-
‘ona. Between Virginia and Arizona he
has Managed to have many interesting
‘“signments including three and a_ half
years with Army Intelligence. Dean
Gaines was Dean of Students at $.M.U. in
ot 5s and went from there to become
resident of Wofford College at the age
. 33, One of the youngest college presi-
dents, Shortly after going to the Uni-
*ersity of Arizona in 1959, Dr. Gaines

Was . . . . .
Struck with a tragic illness which left

SPRING 1967

Bam

ghnte

“~

 

‘40, and Mrs. Foore.

him partially paralyzed. He refused to
give up and has graduated from a wheel-
chair to walking with the aid of a crutch.
His therapy is a daily swim, and he
directs his rapidly growing division as
though nothing had ever happened. His
job entails, in addition to the’ 12,000
students who enroll in summer school,
some 2,500 adults who attend night
school, about 4,000 students in go Ari-
zona communities other than ‘Tucson,
and administration of the Peace Corps
and Civil Defense Programs, and Euro.
pean and Mexican Programs.

1940

Since 1948 Paut W. Grecory has been
employed by the Union Carbide Com
pany. He has been manager of industrial
relations at Technical Center in South
Charleston, West Virginia, since 1960. The
Gregorys have one son who is a_pre-
dental student at the University of Wis
consin.

For the past two years HAMILTON G.
Dissrow, JR., has been working for the
Department of Defense at the Naval Air
Turbine Test Station, in West Trenton,
New Jersey. He is a civilian employee in
the security department. Hamilton has

two teenage sons.

Bryce Rea, Jr. is living in Fairfax
County, Virginia, and practicing law in
Washington, D. C., with the firm of Rea,
Cross and Knebel.

An ex-lieutenant colonel of the U. S.
Marine Corps, JupGe Grorce M. Foor
of Alexandria, Louisiana, was the winne
of the local newspaper’s, The Town Talk,
fourth annual “civic oscar’ award, After
discharge from service in World War II,
George received his law degree from Tu
lane University. He is presently city judge
for Alexandria, Louisiana. His awards for
community service have been many, in
cluding the Alexandria’ Jaycee Distin-
guished Service Award in 1955, the Silver
Beaver for distinguished service to adults
in the Scouting program, and the Salva
tion Army’s “Man of the Year” plaque.
For the past ten years Foote has served
as chairman of the building committee
for the First Methodist Church in Alex
andria. He is chairman of the Rotary
Club’s youth committee and _ for the
Veterans of Foreign Wars. He is chain
man of the Voice of Democracy contest.
George has been president of the Louisi-
ana Council of Juvenile Court Judges,
treasurer of the Chamber of Commerce,
chairman of the United Givers campaign,
and past president of the Rotary and the
Alexandria Bar Association. The Judge’s
son, George, will enter Washington and
Lee in September 1967 under the early
decision plan.

194]

Caprain C. B. Curris, Jr. is Director
Plans & Programs Division, Office of
Legislative Affairs, Navy Department,
Washington, D. C. He works with Con-
gress on Navy matters and authorization
legislation.

Epwarpd Harrison Trice, JR., and a busi-
ness associate have purchased the Bigsbee
Motors, Inc., a well established automotive
business in Saratoga Springs, New York.
Ed, with his family, has been making his
home in Schenectady, but he intends to
move to Saratoga Springs. Until acquir-
ing Bigsbee Motors he was general man-
ager and vice-president of Webster Motors
and he has served as president of the
Schenectady County Automobile Dealers
Association and ‘director of the Schenec-
tady County Chamber of Commerce.

1942

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Roserr T.
VAUGHAN, a son, David Michael, born
on October 23, 1966. Mr. Vaughan is an
attorney in South Boston, Virginia.

Dr. Grorce F. Parton, JR., is scheduled
to leave his private practice of medicine
in Glastonbury, Connecticut, in July,
1967, to become the Director of Student
Health at Middlebury College in Middle
bury, Vermont.

DANIEL C. Lewis, JR., has been elected
vice president of The Chesapeake Corpo-

41

ration of Virginia, a kraft pulp and paper
concern. Among his many activities he
has been appointed by the Governor to
the State Board for Community Colleges,
elected a trustee of the Virginia Founda-
tion for Independent Colleges, re-elected
chairman of the West Point (Va.) School
Board, and elected a director and vice
president of the York River Oyster Re-
search Corporation.

1943

JouN W. STANLEY has opened a real estate
agency in Evansville, Indiana, specializ-
ing in residential-commercial and invest-
ment properties,

BurRR E. GIrFen, JR., is living in Columbia,
South Carolina, where he is employed by
the McCann Erickson Advertising Agency
and also McDonald Letter Shop. During
World War II, Burr served as a_photo-
graphic laboratory technician for the
\rmy Air Force.

1944

\LFRED L. HeLDMAN, JR., for the past 20
years has been a sales representative for
!EXO Corporation in Cincinnati, Ohio,
a manufacturing company for industrial
chemicals and detergents. Al and his wife
have three children.

1945

\RTHUR V. MILONA of Triangle, Virginia,
has been appointed assistant supervisor of
adult basic education for Virginia. Be
fore his appointment, Milona was director
of guidance at a junior high school in
Woodbridge.

Joun L. Crist, Jr., of Personnel Estate
\ffairs has been elected president of the
Charlotte, North Carolina, YMCA. Jack
has been on the board for two years and
has been active in YMCA circles for many
years. He is a member of the Mint
Museum of Art board of directors, the
board of Charlotte Rehabilitation Hospi-
tal and the board of the Life Assurance
Society of the Carolinas. Jack is also a
member of the Alumni Board of Directors.

1946

WILLIAM A. MAGEE was among those who
have been awarded the professional desig-
nation of Chartered Financial Analvyst
(C.F.A.) by the Institute of Chartered
Financial Analysts. He is assistant treas
urer and director of the securities di
vision for the Shenandoah Life Insurance
Company of Roanoke. The C.F.A. designa
tion is designed to promote professional
standards among persons who = analyze
stocks and honds for investment.

1947

Dr. JAMES H. SAMMONs is in the practice
ol general medicine and surgery with a
five-man medical group known as The
Medical and Surgical Group of Baytown,
Texas. He was recently elected a delegate

 

Ropwerr P. HALEy, “48

to the American Medical Association from
lexas, one of nine delegates. Dr. Sammons
is also a member of the board of direc
tors of the American Medical Political
\ction Committee and president of the
Houston Academy of Medicine.

1948

Virginia’s humor columnist, CHarves R.
McDOweLL, JR., is in much demand as
a public speaker. Charlie returned to his
native Lexington, March 9, to address the
Rockbridge Chamber of Commerce's an
nual dinner. The Washington correspon
dent spoke in Evans Dining Hall to an
audience of approximately g00 guests.
While giving his observations of the
Washington political scene Charlie enter-
tained the audience with reminiscences
of his youth in Lexington. The follow

 

WILLIAM M. KINNAIRD, “49

 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
   
  
     
 
    
   
   
   
  

ing night, Mr, McDowell spoke
Staunton audience at a_ public aff:
convocation held at Mary Baldwin r.

lege.

Robert P. Hatey has been promoteg
senior mortgage officer of the First Pen
syivania Banking and Trust Company
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Haley,
attorney, joined the bank in 1954
having been engaged in private law
tice for five years. He was promoted
trust officer in 1961. In addition tg
degrees from Washington and Lee, Hay
completed a course of study offered
the Stonier Graduate School of Bankj
at Rutgers University. He is a mem
of the Philadelphia Bar Association
the Germantown Lions Club. He ang}
wife have two children and the fang
lives in Northwoods, Pennsylvania.

he Woodcraft Supply Co., Inc. of Bost
Massachusetts, is owned by Rocers @

Weties. The company carries a full fp
of fine tools, many of them imported fre
Europe where Mr. Welles travels @
tensively for the company.

Ropert ‘TI’. BosseRMAN is completing §@
eral years as an active participant in
C.P.A, professional association activitf
In June, 1967, he will terminate J
tenure as president of the Middle Atlant
States Accounting Conference.

WittiAM L. Hopkins is principal of #
J. B. Fisher Elementary School in
Bon Air section of Chesterfield Coun
Virginia.

194

BORN: Lr. Cor. and Mrs. MICHAEL
BARRETT, JR., a daughter, Cheryl Hog
on February 25, 1967. Lt. Col. Barrett
in the U.S. Air Force as Legal St
Officer in the Office of Judge Advog
General, Washington, D. C,

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Tuomas S. Hoot
jk., a son, Evan Shipley, on January
1g67. The Hooks are living in Annapol
Maryland. Thom has recently publish
a book, “Illustrated Flying Basics,” whi
is doing well at airport newstands aroul
the country as well as at smaller “g
strip” flying fields.

Ihe Roval Crown Cola Co. has announe
that WILLIAM M. KINNAIRD, former Pre
dent of Glenmore Distillaries, will bee
their Director of Staff Sales. A native
Louisville, Kentucky, Kinnaird recei
his LL.B. degree from Harvard in 19
He later took advanced work at Colum
Business School and graduated in i
from Harvard Business School's Prog d
for Management Development. Kinn@
joined Glenmore Distillaries in 1955
advertising manager and in 1962
named president of the firm’s inte
tional subsidiary. He has been vice Pi
dent and director for the Kentuck#
World Commerce Council; a member
the Louisville Committee for Inte™

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZI

Relations; and the Honorable

— of Kentucky Colonels.

Pare and his wife, the former Elizabeth
jakemore, are parents of a son and
two daughters.

CHARLES R. TREADGOLD is District Man-
wey for (ie Farmers Insurance Group
a8 of Los Angeles, California. He has

ul oe . .
. largest. district in the Milwaukee
[ -

rea with ten new agents. The Tread-
‘ 7 ; :

ads make their home in Brookfield,
wisconsin, @ suburb of Milwaukee, and

pave three sons.

MAJOR Ossi! DANIEL HAMRICK, JR., retired
from the Army Air Force last May, 1966,
and is making his home in ‘Tampa,
Florida. He is working as a general ac-
countant 10! the Tampa General Hospital.

1950

\frer completing Duke Medical School,
Dr. Grorce H. Pierson, JRr., has been in
seneral practice of medicine in Clendenin,
5

West Virginia.

Redford County Virginia State Delegate,
Lacey EpwArb PUTNEY, announced that
he will run for re-election as an_ inde-
pendent rather than as a Democrat. Put-
nev has taken issue with the so-called
Democratic “loyalty oath.” He is senior
partner of a Bedford law firm and was
listed in the 1965 edition of Outstanding
Young Men in America. Putney is chair-
man of the House Printing Committee
and is a member of three powerful com-
mittees in the House of Delegates: Privi-
leges and Elections, Appropriations, and

Agriculture.
1951

MARRIED: JOUNSON STROTHER SLAUGHTER
and Constance Jean Darms were married
on February 9, 1967, in Louisville, Ken-
tucky. After receiving a master’s degree
from American University, Slaughter was
head of the history department at Louis-
ville Country Day School for two years.
Last fall he began work on his Ph.D.
degree at Florida State University.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Joun KInG Boarp-
MAN, JR., a fourth daughter, in November,
1966. The Boardmans are living in Roa-
noke, Virginia, where John has been
elected to the Board of Directors of the

Southern furniture Manufacturers’ As-
sociation.

FRANK H. SimMOoNs is now associated with
the brokerage firm of Glore Forgen and
William R. Stoats in Los Angeles.
Grorce J. Kosten, attorney in Clifton
Forge, Virginia, announced he will run
lor a third term as delegate to the State
House of Delegates on the Democratic
Ucket. He represents Alleghany and
Botetou) t Counties.

Dr. Wittiam P. ROBERT is certified by
the American Board of Pediatrics. He is
Practicing pediatrics with his father in
faumont. J eXxas,

SPRING 967

In January, 1967, DONALD W. MASON was
elected to a four-year term as State’s At-
torney for Allegany County, Maryland.

As of October, 1966, Witson H. Lear
became the branch manager of United
States Plywood Champion Paper Co. of
Columbia, South Carolina. The company
has sub-branch warehouses in Charles-
ton, S. C., and Augusta, Ga.

After graduation from law school, Rusu
Pierce Wess became commonwealth’s
attorney for Carroll County, Virginia, and
in 1952 he entered the U. S. Air Force.
He served three years as judge advocate
ofhcer in the Strategic Air Command.
Webb's military service took him to
France, England, Italy, Holland, Belgium,
Sicily, the Philippines and other areas. It
was his contact with the Red Cross while
a serviceman that caused him to be-
come interested in the organization. The
office of Public Information has now an-
nounced that Webb has joined the Ameri-
can Red Cross as assistant field director
in the Service at Military Installations
Program.

1952

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ROLAND E. THomp-
SON, a daughter, Ann Charlotte, on Octo-
ber g, 1966. The young lady joins a
brother, Mark, and the family lives in
McLean, Virginia.

THOMAS R. WARFIELD is the assistant to
the president of Standard & Poor's Corpo-
ration. He formerly held this position
with Blyth & Company.

An Atlanta, Georgia, surgeon, Dr. WIL-
LIAM S. HAGLER, made a secret State De-
partment approved trip to Cuba to
perform a delicate eye operation on the
Reverend Herbert Caudill, Southern
Baptist Missionary who was convicted
there two years ago for dealing in black
market dollars. Mr. Caudill was sentenced
for exchanging U. S. dollars for pesos
to Cubans who needed currency for air-
line fare out of Cuba. Dr. Hagler, as-
sociate professor of opthalmology at
Emory University Clinic, volunteered for
the trip when he learned of the Reverend
Caudill’s condition. Along with Dr. ‘Taylor
of Norfolk, Virginia, Hagler obtained
visas through the Czechoslovakian Embas-
sy and entered Cuba through Spain. The
Reverend Caudill was Director of the
Southern Baptist work in Cuba_ before
his arrest and has been a missionary for
thirty-seven years.

Boyd H. Le&ysurn, JRr., is merchandise
manager for Sears Roebuck Company in
Nashville, ‘Tennessee.

In June, 1966, THe RervereND BYRON
Warres received an honorary Divinity
Degree from King College, Bristol, Ten-
nessee. Last summer he traveled through
Africa on a Churchmen’s Study ‘Tour
with nine other persons. The members of

the tour visited leaders in Ghana, Nigeria,
the Congo, Zambia, Rhodesia, Tanzania,
Kenya, Ethiopia, and Egypt.

Dr. E. W. Winerey, IIT, is in the practice
of thoracic and cardiovascular surgery at
Riverside Hospital in Newport News, Vir-
ginia. He is a member of the American
Board of Surgery and the Board of
Thoracic Surgery. In 1966 a textbook was
published of which he is a contributing
author: “Textbook of Surgical Diseases
of the Chest.”

WILLIAM HENRY NELSON retired from the
Air Force in 1965 and since then has been
with the Physical Plant Department
Southern Illinois in Carbondale, Hlinois.
His present position is assistant to the
director.

1953

MARRIED: Cuarters Ray Storm and Har-
riet Nachman were married on February
16, 1967, in Temple Sinai in Newport
News. The bride is employed as a_ wo-
men’s writer by the Daily Press, Inc. The
groom is associated with the law firm of
Ford, West and Wilkinson.

Leo BARRINGTON, assistant professor of
sociology at Regis College, Weston, Massa-
chusetts, has been awarded a_ Foreign
Area Fellowship by the Ford Foundation
for research in Ghana. He plans to spend
six months at the University of London
in preliminary study of African economics
and political affairs, and the Twi lan-
guage, before proceeding to his twelve
months of work in Ghana. Barrington did
his graduate work in sociology and in
African studies at Boston University.

C. RicHarp Lovecrove is supervisor of
public information for Appalachian
Power Company, headquartered in Roa-
noke, Virginia. The Lovegroves have three
children, two boys and a girl. In the com-
munity he is involved in church and scout
activities.

1954

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. H. Gorpon Leccerr,
Jr., a daughter, Carey Elizabeth, on Janu-
ary 10, 1967. Gordon has a new position
with the Leggett Stores, that of assistant
to the Secretary-Treasurer. He will be
primarily concerned with store expan-
sion and corporate research. Starting as
a trainee with the Leggett Stores, Gordon
worked in various departments until in
1965 he became manager of the Newport
News store. In Newport News he was very
active in civic and community affairs and
in the Retail Merchants Association, serv-
ing as a member of the Board of Direc-
tors and as vice-president of the Down-
town Newport News Association. ‘The
Leggetts will now make their home in
Lynchburg, Virginia.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. HaAroip Josern
QUINN, a son, David Saunders, on Janu-
ary 10, 1967. Dr. Quinn is practicing
otolaryngology in Shreveport, Louisiana.

435

GEORGE HOLMAN GREER is completing his
second term in office as a city commis-
sioner in Owensboro, Kentucky. In No-
vember he will be making the first race
a Republican has made for the State
Legislature from the City of Owensboro.

The Institute of Property Management
of the National Association of Real
Estate Boards has designated RicHArp H.
SHERRILL as a Certified Property Manager
(CPM). Dick is associated with the Hart
Realty Co. in Pensacola, Florida.

1955

Besides being an icthyologist for the Uni-
versity of Maryland at CBL, Solomons,
Maryland, Doucias E. Rirentie, JR., is a
life underwriter for his own agency and
a registered representative for Mutual
Fund Sales, Financial Programs, Inc.

RAYMOND D. Smiru, JR., has been ap-
pointed an assistant vice president of
Bankers Trust Company, New York. Smith
joined Bankers Trust in 1958 and became
assistant treasurer in 1963. He is first vice
president of Bank Credit Association of
New York.

Since 1955 Dr. Tom Rossins has studied
medicine at Duke University and at Jef-
ferson Medical College in Philadelphia.
After practicing for three years in general
medicine in eastern North Carolina, Tom
has decided to complete his medical train-
ing in neurology and psychiatry. His in-
terst lies in medical investigation. He and
his wife have four children and the family
lives in Princeton, New Jersey.

1956

MARRIED: WittisAM Henry Houston,
IIf, and Susan Haynes Miller were mar-
ried March 9, 1967, in the Saint James
Episcopal Church in Johnson City, Ten-
nessee.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. HEADLEY STAPLER
Wuitre, JR., a daughter, on March 16, 1967.
Dr. White is in the general practice of
medicine in Allentown, Pennsylvania.

BORN: Monsteur and MADAME JEAN-
MArteé GRANDPIERRE, daughter, Sophie, on
February 22, 1967, in Paris, France. The
young lady joins a two-year-old brother.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Stuart J]. BRACKEN,
a daughter, Mary Eugenia Rice, on Janu-
ary 6, 1967. The Brackens also have three
sons. They make their home in Villanova,
Pennsylvania.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. J. THomMas Toucu-
TON, a daughter, Lavinia Hannon Touch-
ton, on February 15, 1967. Tom_ is
associated with the stock brokerage firm
of Smith, Barney & Company in Tampa,
Florida.

Townsend C. Suietps has joined The
Borden Chemical Company’s Western
Operations Division as a sales representa-
tive for Arabol packaging adhesives. His

44

 

RAYMOND D. SMITH, JR., "55

territory includes the state of Washing-
ton, northern Idaho, Montana, and Brit-
ish Columbia. He will make his head-
quarters in Kent, Washington. Prior to
joining Borden, Tod was a sales repre-
sentative for Glenbrook Laboratories, a
division of Sterling Drug, Inc.

Effective April ist, JouNn Kent Kane, II,
moved to West Chester, Pennsylvania,
where he is a consulting geologist with
the engineering firm of Roy F. Weston,
Inc.

C. LAWRENCE TALBOTT, supervisor of the
Waynesboro Plastic firm, Dawborn Broth-
ers, Inc., has been named president of
the Ruritan Club in Stuarts Draft, Vir-

ginia,

Dr. Crype DupLey Ropcers, JR., is in the
private practice of gynecology and_ ob-
stetrics in Little Rock, Arkansas. He and
Mrs. Rodgers have two sons, ages four
years and six months.

WILLIAM H. Fisupack, JRr., became Di-
rector of Information Services for the
University of Virginia in 1966. He had
previously been with the Richmond
Times-Dispatch for ten years where he
Was assistant state editor. The Fishbacks
have three children and are making their
home in Charlottesville.

Perer JAcoss, President of the Book
Metals Corporation in New York City,
was guest of honor at a testimonial din-
ner, sponsored by the Metals and Mining
Industry Division of the Anti-Defamation
League at the New York Hilton Hotel.
The “Torch of Liberty Award” was ac-
corded Peter in recognition of his carry-
ing on a family tradition of philanthropy
and dedication to freedom and _ social
justice. Prominent in the industry, Mr.
Jacobs is a member of the Metal Dealers
Division of the National Association of
Secondary Material Industries and serves

 
   
  
  
   
   
   
    
   
  
   
   
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
 

on its tax and insurance committee
as a trustee of its insurance fund. Ay
his community activities, Mr. Jacobs
proven his leadership in the Anti-Defg
tion League of B'nai B'rith, the Up
Jewish Appeal and the Federation
Jewish Philanthropies,.

19

An assistant professor of European
tory, Ross H. BAyarb has been made
honorary member of Blue Key at Wof
College in Spartanburg, South Care
He is the first honorary member jp
last nine years. Ross has represey
Wottord’s history department at
Southeastern U.S. Seminars and
Council on Religion and Internat
Affairs.

CHARLES Fausr Davis, JR. is assi
manager of the Yokohama branch of
First National City Bank of New
In February he and his wife and
children returned to Japan from a_
and a half month vacation in the
and Europe, including a journey thre
Russia. He reports that American
consul for Yokohama is DoNAtp E
STEWART, ’55.

] ‘

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. Watson G. Wa
a daughter, Stephanie Bond, on Fe
ary 28, 1967, at the Ft. Devens
Hospital in Massachusets. After one
year Dr, Watring expects to returr
Indianapolis to complete the two
remaining in his _ obstetrics-gynece
program at the Indiana University
cal Center.

After three years in the sales departr
in Syracuse, New York, Davin G. N
has been moved to San Francisco,
fornia, as Dealer Development Mar
for John Deere Company.

WILLIAM ALBERT TowLer, III, is ass
vice-president of Wachovia Bank &
Company, Charlotte, North Caroli
was recently named to the Boare
Trustees of the Charlotte Museum
Board of Directors of Spring
Country Club, the executive comm
of Mail Users Council, and is cu
second vice-president of America I
tute of Banking.

One of the four Alabamians name
the ‘Tennessee-Tombigbee Water
Authority is G. SAGE Lyons, an atte
in Mobile, Alabama. Sage will
term expiring in August, 1970.

WittiAM O. Roserts, practicing 1a
in Lexington, Virginia, was named f
dent of the Rockbridge Chamber of €
merce at the annual banquet on M

Q, 1967.

In recognition of outstanding act
ment in 1966, VERNON W. HOLLEMAN
has been named to the President’s G
cil of the Home Life Insurance ©

    

THE ALUMNI MAGA@

any. 2 his is the second time Holleman
ms qualified since joining the company
. 39. Among his professional credent-
a “Holleman is currently a director of
e. pistrict of Columbia Life Under-
writers Association, he was the 1966 chair-
man Ol the Mid-Atlantic Congress, and
s, the present treasurer of the Life In-
surance Club of Washington.

PRANK PAYNE, Il, has been appointed to
the post of Director, Bureau of Business
services for the Pennslvania Department
of Commerce, a bureau responsible for
administering the State’s Foreign Trade,
rederal Procurement and High Speed Rail
programs. it also provides research for the
Governors Science Advisory Committee
and various other committees. Prior to
his promotion, Payne had been Director,
gureau of Office Services, for the depart-
ment. He has been associated with Com-
merce since 1964. He and his wife and
pwo daughters reside in Harrisburg, Penn-
sylvania.

samueL C. Duprey is a stockbroker in the
Richmond, Virginia, office of Francis I.
duPont and Company.

BARTON FRENCH CARTER Is executive ac-
countant with the Ted Bates Advertising
Agency in New York City. The Carters
have five children and make their home
in Metuchen, New Jersey.

1959

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. DON’ KERNAN
JorFRION, a son, Christopher Brown, on
February ‘tg, 1967, in Corpus Christi,
Texas.

Met McCarruy and his wile, Trina, have
moved to Gainesville, Florida, where Mel
is doing graduate work in mechanical
engineering at the University of Florida.
Alter receiving his B.S. degree in civil
engineering from Louisiana Tech in 1960,
Henry Dave Foote got his master’s de-
gree in civil engineering from Georgia
Tech. He is now in Atlanta, Georgia,
where he is employed as a structural engi-
heer with the U.S. Forest Service. The
Footes have three children.

Roserr G. JAcosw has been promoted to
the position of Instructor, Customer Ex-
ecutive Program, in the IBM headquarters
of Endicott, New York.

Grorce N. Lockie is a pediatrician in the
Air Force, located at Kincheloe AFB,
Michigan.

Under a program initiated by the Presi-
dent’s Committee on Manpower, a three-
man team of Federal officials has been
assigned to the Washington and Baltimore
“reas and to the Central Appalachian
Area to assist local officials in coordina-
‘on of Federal Programs. ALEXANDER S.
MACN Ans, representing the Office of Eco-
homic Opportunity with which he is as-
aa is on this three-man team which

work with groups on local problems
and see what recommendations are forth-

SPRING 1967

coming from groups within the com-
munity to achieve an improved coordi-
nation of programs.

LyMAN C. Harrewi, III, is an attorney
with the Union Planters Bank in Mem-
phis, Tennessee. He is married to the
former Lynn Greenhaw and they have one
daughter, Courtney Elizabeth.

In January, 1967, Murray M. Wapswortru
resigned as Assistant U. S. Attorney and
opened his own office for the general
practice of law in ‘Tallahassee, Florida.

RICHARD POWELL CARTER, JR., has moved
to Atlanta, Georgia, where he is as-
sociated with Armour Agricultural Chemi-
cal Company.

DONALD WILLIAM SIGMUND is’ currently
assistant vice-president and heads the
life insurance department of a new life
insurance company, the Federated In-
surance Agencies, in Washington, D.C.

1960

BORN: Carr. and Mrs. DAvip N. Keys,
a son, David N., Jr., on February 3, 1967,
in Germany. After graduation from Duke
Medical School in 1964, David did his
internship and first year residency in
surgery at the Medical College of Vir-
ginia. He is now a captain in the Army
Medical Corps and is stationed in Ger-
many, where his family is with him.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Josern J. SMirn,
Ill, a daughter, Christine Howell Smith,
on March 7, 1967, in Washington, D. C.
Joe is a registered representative of the
Washington investment firm of Ferris and
Company.

W. E. KNICKERBOCKER, JR., is Director of
the Wesley Foundation and Bible Chair
at the University of Texas at El Paso.
The Knickerbockers have a son, Jon
McClung, nearly two years old.

FREDERICK H. BeLDEN, JR., has moved from
his position as employment manager at
Compton Advertising Company to the
Ted Bates Advertising Company where
he is Director of Employee Development.
This is a personnel function in which he
is responsible for training and _ staffing.

Rarpon D. Bevitt, HI, has finished two
vears active duty with the U.S. Army and
is now a National Science Foundation
post-doctoral fellow at the Department of
Molecular Biology at the A. Einstein Col-
lege of Medicine in Bronx, New York. A
year ago he went to Guatemala with the
U.S. Public Health Service to participate
in a nutrition survey, serving as a_bio-
chemist.

CHARLES S. CHAMBERLIN has been em-
ployed for the past three years in the
Mortgage Loan Department of the Aetna
Life Insurance Company in Hartford,
Connecticut.

Having graduated from Artillery Basic
Officers Course, JAMES NEAL HARDIN is

going to JFK Special Warfare Center in
Fort Bragg, North Carolina. He expects
to receive his Ph.D. in German from the
University of North Carolina in June,

19607.

RusseLL J. MICKLER, Lerritory representa-
tive for Xerox Corporation, has completed
the company’s course in Sales Develop-
ment and Management. Mickler joined
Xerox in 1966 and lives with his wife and
three children in Jacksonville, Florida.

Joseru E, Hess, a member of the law
firm of Kizer and Hess in Buena Vista,
Virginia, is president of the Rockbridge
County-Lexington-Buena Vista Bar As-
sociation,

Formerly with the management consult-
ing firm, McKinsey & Company, [THOMAs
W. GILLIAM, JR., has now become associ-
ated with the transportation consulting
firm of L. E. Peabody and Associates of
Washington, D.C. Prior to his consultant
work, Tom did his military duty with the
Army Finance School and was connected
with the Norfolk & Western Railway Co.
He is married to the former Diane McKay.

1961

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. FLEMING KEEFE, a
daughter, Elizabeth Spalding, on Janu-
ary 19, 1967, in Hampton, Virginia.

Courtney R. Mauzy, JR., is district man-
ager of the Raleigh, North Carolina, office
of Johnson & Wimsatt, Inc.

Formerly with Manufacturers Hanover
Trust Co., Wittiam TT. Buicre is now as-
sociated with the Wall Street law firm olf
Davidson, Dawson and Clark.

Dr. Epwin D. VAUGHAN, JR., will finish a
year of general surgery residency at
Vanderbilt and will move to the Uni-
versity of Virginia to begin urology
residency.

Carr. CLINTON ANDERSON is doing duty
in the Artillery Branch of the Army and
is stationed as Commander of ‘Tuslog
Detachment 155 which is located in ‘Tur-
key.

While working as an electronics engi-
neer for Atlantic Research Corporation,
WaALrer J. CRATER, JR., is working on a
master’s degree in Engineering Adminis-
tration at George Washington University.

Continuing his graduate theological stud-
ies at Union Seminary in New York,
RusseLL B. Boatrner is the assistant
organist and choir master at the Chapel
of the Intercession (Episcopal). He is also
the staff organist for the Church Center
in The United Nations and the director
of a boys’ choir for the School of Arts
in Harlem.

1962

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs A. GWINN,
Jr., a second son, John Ashbey, on Janu-

45

ary 26, 1967. The family lives in Baton
Rouge, Louisiana, where Jimmy is a dis-
trict sales manager for Scott Paper Com-
pany.

DAvip K. THARP is now with the law
firm of Walton, Santoff, Schroeder, Carson
% Wahl in Miami, Florida.

After two and = one-half years as Re-
search Director with the State Republican
Headquarters of Texas, LANCE TARRANCE,
Jk., is resigning to complete his M.A. de-
gree in government at North Texas State
University.

At the annual stockholders meeting, M.
WILLIAM Myers was elected vice-president
and treasurer of Underwood Builders
Supply Co. in Mobile, Alabama.

Seven top-fashion photographers —spon-
sored seven young photographers to take
pictures for the “Blow-Up” contest at
Best & Co. Among the photographers was
EDWARD H. HARDIN sponsored by the
Greene Eula Studio of New York City.

L. Davin CaLLAway, III, is assistant man-
ager of the First National City Bank in
New York.

Currently on a post-doctoral research
fellowship at Columbia University, R.
BRYAN MILLER expects to receive his Ph.D.
degree in chemistry from Rice University
in June, 1967.

Evuiorr C. L. MAYNARD, working toward
his doctorate in marine biology at the
University of Miami, has recently made a
report to the American Association for
the Advancement of Science. The report
is based on a study he has made relative
to the control of parasitic infections
among the larger fish. The paper was
part of a symposium on “The Biology
of the Mouth.” Elliott made many of his
field observations on the wreck of a Span-
ish galleon sunk in 1733.

1963

MARRIED: DONALD ELDREDGE JACKSON,
Ill, and Miss Katherine K. Keith were
married on December go, 1966, in Way-
zata, Minnesota.

MARRIED: JAMES MCLEAN CAMPBELL
and June Nelson were married on June
3, 1966, at the University of North Caro-
lina in Chapel Hill where they are both
graduate students. Mack Brownlee, ‘63,
was best man.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN Percy Marcu,
a daughter, Shelly Ann, on March 6, 1967.
in El Paso, Texas. John is supervisor of
the Real Estate Mortgage Department of
the State National Bank of El Paso.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Paut G. McBripe,
a daughter, Amy Wallace, on January 5,
1967. Paul is working for Chubb & Son,
Inc. as a commercial underwriter in their
Chicago office.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. G. ANpREW NEA,

46

a daughter, Courtney Randolph, on No-
vember 6, 1966, in Richmond, Virginia.

ALVIN JUDSON BABCOcK is an advertising
supervisor in Monsanto's Textiles Division
in New York City, He was formerly in
banking.

Recently Prrer J. DAuK became an as-
sociate in the law firm of Pullman, Com-
ley, Bradley & Reeves in Bridgeport,
Connecticut,

 

CLARENCE receives

RENSHAW, II, ’6s,
Bronze Star from Bric. Gen. S. E. Lous.

CLARENCE ReNnsHAw, II, received the
Bronze Star Medal for outstanding meri-
torious service in combat against hostile
forces in Vietnam from January, 1966, to
January of this year. Brigadier General
S. E. Lollis of the ist Logistical Command
bestowed the award. At the time of the
award Clarence was first lieutenant and
assistant information officer in the In-
formation Office at ist Logistical Com-
mand Headquarters at Tan Son Nhut.
He has since been released from active
service in the Army and is in the news
department of Station WAVY-AM-TV in
Norfolk, Virginia.

After release from active duty with the
U. S. Navy in November, 1966, J. Wins-
rON Ivey became accounts manager for
C. & P. Telephone Company in Norfolk,
Virginia. He and his wife have a year old
son, David.

In November, 1966, THomas N. Rains
was separated from active duty with the
Army and is now employed by the First
National Bank of Atlanta, Georgia.

Graduating from the University of Okla-
homa Law School in June, 1966, SAm
HELLMAN is now employed as an assist-
ant attorney general, State of Oklahoma.

D. RANDOLPH Cote, Jr., received his
LL.B. degree from the George Washing-

ton Law School in June, 1966, While
was a student there he was a finalist
the Appellate Moot Court Competit;
a Day Representative, Board of Ge
nors, Student Bar Association; Day Rey
sentative, Centennial Committee;
president of the Van Vleck Case
He passed the District of Columbia
examination and is now practicing
D.C. with King & Nordlinger, Attorn

  
  
   
    
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
   
     
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  

196

MARRIED; Froyyp W. McKINNon
Barbara E. Roles were married in Ju
1966, and are making their home in §¢
dale, New York.

MARRIED: CLemMent J. CLAarke, IID, ;
Marna Jean Goodrich were married ji
11, 1966, in Baton Rouge, Louisiana,
three years Clem has been working
IBM in Greensboro, North Carolina,
a marketing representative for the ¢
processing division.

  

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Kennetu E. Gre
a daughter, Catherine Stuart, on M
9g, 1967, in Charlottesville, Virginia,
June Kenneth will graduate from
University of Virginia School of Medie
He plans to do an internship next year
the University of Rochester.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN JORDON Smp
JR., a son, Steven Jetlrey, on January
1967.

RoBERT Epwarpd Lee has been promoted
captain in the Army and is stationed
Fort Benning, Georgia.

WILLIAM A. JEFFREYS is with Pepsi-G
Company International and was tra
ferred from Canada to South Africa
March of 1966. Since then, Bill and
family have lived in Capetown. He
recently been transferred to Durh
Union of South Africa, where he is
be manager of the Pepsi-Cola Comp:
(Pty.) Ltd.

After two years in the Army, RICHARD
CorLaN is now working for Retail Sté
Service, Inc., in Baltimore, Maryland.

SAMUEL T[T. PATTERSON, Jr., has been p
moted to senior field claim representat
in the Staunton, Virginia office of
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurat
Company.

AtrreD E. Eckes, JR., received his MA
International relations in June, 1966, fre
the Fletcher School of Law and Dip
macy, administered by Tufts Univers
in cooperation with Harvard Unive
In November, 1966, he was appoint
Foreign Service Reserve officer (Class
U.S. Department of State. Upon comp
tion of his Ph.D. in history at the UE
versity of Texas he will receive a pe
manent appointment and will be gi¥
some overseas diplomatic assignment

After Washington and Lee WILLIAM
VAN Dyke, III, attended Lewis Colle
THE

ALUMNI MAGAZI

and ‘Technology in Lockport,
and also Joliet Junior College.
now employed by a division of
Union fank Car Company in Joliet. Bill
« married lo the former Patricia Connery
sad the couple have a young daughter.

of 5€ pence
ylinois,
He is

ymes 5. \iarrirr, IV, is engaged in the
Jeneral practice of law in Roanoke, Vir-
ginia. with the firm of Apostolou, Place
¢ Thomas. [he Mafhtts have two daugh-
and make their home in Roanoke.

* ;
second Lr. THomMAS M. Brumpy, IV, was
ymong the 1g infantry officer candi-

date graduates at Fort Knox, Kentucky,
«) February. Mike received recognition
gs the ac idemic honor and distinguished
graduate of his class.

 

CRISSMAN, '65, receives his silver

bars.

Joun C.

1965

On Duty in Vietnam, JouNn C. CrissMAn
has been promoted to first lieutenant. He
is information officer in the headquarters
of the ist Logistical Command near Sai-
gon.

H. Danivi Jones is at law school at Van-
derbilt | iversity and expects to receive
his degree 1 June, 1968. He reports that
Mike TASH. ‘66, is also at Vanderbilt
Graduate School.

SAMUEL ANsELL, ILI, is stationed in Wash-
mston where he is the Executive Officer
of the Environment Division of an agency
Within the Department of Defense.

In January of this year Lr. Ltoyp F. Rex
finished first in his class in the Air De-
lense Basic Course at the U.S. Army Air
Defense school, Fort Bliss, Texas. He is
NOW assigned to Germany and is a pla-
oon leader in a Nike Hercules Missile
Battery near Bitburg.

Since ‘

- July Raven Lee Gittum has been

N the ; aa

i. the Army. He took his basic training
Ft. Benning and then trained as a

SPRING 1 967

combat engineer at Ft. Leonard Wood
and as a construction draftsman at Ft,
Belvoir. He is currently stationed at Ft.
Sill, Oklahoma. He is married to the
former Barbara A. Griflin of Clarksburg,
West Virginia.

Eric STEPHEN HANSSEN is assistant to the
project director of the New Haven Data
Use Study. The project objectives are to
discover new ways of producing social
indicator data from the decennial census.
The project is under the auspices of the
Bureau of the Census with funds from
H.E.W. and H.U.D. Eric is married to the
former Mary Earle Sullivan and they have
a year-old daughter.

1966

Airman Harry G. Goopuerarr, Il, has
been selected for technical training at
Keesler AFB as a communications-elec-
tronics specialist. Bud recently completed
basic air force training at Lackland,
Texas.

KENNETH CARO is now in his ninth week

of Ordnance OCS at
Grounds in Maryland.

Aberdeen Proving

ERIK CC. ANDERSEN is a Navy ensign
aboard the air craft carrier U.S.S. Shan-
gri-la, assigned as Special Service Officer.
He is married to the former Harriet Ann
Kohl (Mary Baldwin College). Their home
is in Baltimore.

RUFFIN is serving with the
of English in

NICHOLAS C.
Peace Corps as a_ teacher
Bizerte, ‘Tunisia.

Lewis E. Davis, Ill, is teaching social
studies and drama to the 6th and 7th
grades at the North Shore Country Day
School in Winnetka, Illinois.

JouN E. MYNTTINEN is presently at St.
Johns University School of Law in New

York.
1969

HowaArp ALLEN CouN is attending Mem-
phis State University. He has been elect-
ed a director of the Memphis and Shelby
County Young Democrats.

In Memoriam

1895

Joseru BowMAR DABNEY, one of Wash-
ington and = Lee’s oldest’ alumni, died
February 3, 1967, in Vicksburg, Missis-
sippi. Mr. Dabney was also one of Missis-
sippi's oldest attorneys and a pioneer in
education in the state. He had served as
county superintendent for a number of
years prior to entering the legal profes-
sion. On the occasion of his gend_ birth-
day Mr. Dabney recalled that he was
probably the only man then living who
had shaken hands with Jefferson Davis.
He enjoyed an active and varied career
in civic and professional areas in Missis-
sippi and was one of the oldest members
of the Lions Club.

1898

WILLIAM WILSON Keyser, a retired resi-
dent for many years of St. Louis, Missouri,
died January 7, 1967. He was go years
old. For many years Mr. Keyser operated
a brokerage firm in St. Louis and te-
tired in 1937.

1902

FREDERICK WALTER GosHorRN of Charles-
ton, West Virginia, died on December 10,
1966. Mr. Goshorn had been an attorney
in Charleston,

1911

NATHAN WILLIAM SCHLOSSBERG, prominent
business man and lawyer in Roanoke, Vir-
ginia, for many years, died on February
;, 1907. Mr. Schlossberg was for a num-

ber of years manager of Kann’s Store in
Roanoke. He was one of the founders of
the Roanoke B'nai B'rith, a former presi-
dent of the congregation of Beth Israel
Synagogue, one of the founders of the
Roanoke Merchants Association, and for
many years headed the United Jewish
Appeal in Roanoke.

1917

Jupce JouN Rutoves” BrRaNv, long-time
prominent lawyer in Hobbs, New Mexico,
and former judge of the Fifth Judicial
District, died February 20, 1967, in
Houston, Texas. After practicing law in
Arkansas and Mississippi, Judge Brand
moved to New Mexico in 1930. He was
appointed to the district bench in 1953
by the Governor of New Mexico and
served for ten years before retiring.

LAURENCE WILLIAMS died in Florida on
January 28, 1967. After receiving his law
degree he practiced in Jacksonville,
Florida from 1917 to 1931. In 1934 he
was ordained in the Presbyterian ministry
and served pastorates in Florida, Georgia,
and South Carolina.

1918

Lewis A. RAULERSON, one-time president
of the Great Southern Trucking Com-
pany and the National Trucking Com-
pany, died February 26, 1967. In addition
Mr. Raulerson practiced law and was also
president of the RCA Oil & Gas Corpo-
ration in Jacksonville, Florida. Mr. Raul-
erson received an Honorary Doctor of
Laws degree from Florida Southern Col-
lege.

47

1919

Dr. Grorce A. Mears of Asheville, North
Carolina, died February 12, 1967, in the
Buncombe County Hospital. He received
his M.D. from Syracuse University in
ig24. A former member of the Buncombe
County Medical Society he had practiced
in’ Asheville until 1960. Dr. Mears was
formerly on the stails of Memorial Mis-
sion, St. Joseph’s and Astor Park Hospi-
tals,

BARTON W. Morris, long-time resident ol
Roanoke, Virginia, and a former employee
of the ‘Times-WorLp Corporation, died
March 22, 1966.

1920

KENNETH C. Parry, Virginia’s senior as-
sistant attorney general and an authority
on state election laws, died March 27,
1967, in Richmond, Virginia. Governor
Godwin described Mr. Patty as “one of
the ablest public servants it has been my
privilege to know.” Mr. Patty was a
recognized authority on constitutional
law, especially as it relates to state and
local governments and the powers of
public officials. He was a former mayor
of Bluefield, Virginia, and a past presi-
dent of the Virginia Society, Sons of the
American Revolution, Mr. Patty was a
Mason, and he was chairman of the Board
of Regents of the James Monroe Memorial
Library at Fredericksburg.

FRANK Coury Wricut, former president
and treasurer of the Paramount Oil Com-
pany of Fort Dodge, Iowa, died in Inde-
pendence, Kansas, on January 1, 1967.
Mr. Wright was, at the time of his death,
president of an investment firm in Inde-
pendence.

ALEXANDER M. WALKER for many years
with the U. S. Civil Service, and particu-
larly the Security and Exchange Com-
mission, died in Bethesda, Maryland,
December 4, 1966. Mr. Walker retired in
1956 after 36 years with the Civil Service,
the last 22 years having been spent with
the Securities and Exchange Commission
as financial analyst. Following his retire-
ment, he became self-employed as a
writer and as a publisher of historical
records. Mr. Walker was a past secretary
to the Commercial Attache, American
Embassy, England. He was attached to
the American Embassy in Madrid, 1921-22.
and held other assignments in the foreign
service.

1922

Jesse MABREY JOHNSON, attorney at law,
retired Air Force Reserve officer, civic and
church leader of Richmond, Virginia,
died June 14, 1966. Mr. Johnson had
practiced law for over 45 years and had
been a member of the Richmond Bar
since his beginning of law practice. He
saw active service in World War I and
.in World War II. In 1946 Johnson was
awarded the Commendation Medal and

48

Ribbon for meritorious service as Judge
Advocate General of the IX Corps. At
the time of his retirement from the Army
in 1960 he was a Colonel in the Judge
Advocate General's Department of the
United States Air Force Reserve and was
commanding officer of the Air Reserve
group with headquarters in the City of
Richmond, In 1956 the United Daughters
of the Confederacy awarded him three
crosses, one each for World Wars I and
Il and for the Korean Conflict. Colonel
Johnson was active in all phases of the
Baptist denomination, and in 1957 was
elected president of the Baptist General
Association of Virginia. Until his death
he was a member of the Board of ‘Trustees
of Virginia Baptist Home, Incorporated,
and the Virginia Baptist Hospital.

1923

GEORGE SOUTHALL VEST, assistant trust
othcer of The Citizens and Southern Na-
tional Bank of Atlanta, Georgia, died
December 21, 1966. Mr. Vest was an in-
vestment supervisor and security analyst.
He was a member of the Institute of
Chartered Financial Analysts.

JouN Joseru HupAk, prominent attorney
in Garfield, N. J., and for many years
alumni fund class agent for 1923-Law,
died suddenly on March 2, 1967. Mr.
Hudak’s practice specialized in examina-
tions of titles to real property. In Janu-
ary, 1954, Hudak was appointed city
treasurer, a post he held for several years.

1924

ROBERT QUISENBERRY HENDERSON, Opera-
tor of large farming interests in Sedalia,
Missouri, died February 24, 1967. Mr.
Henderson was a veteran of World War
l and was decorated with the Silver Star
for gallantry in action. For forty-five con-
secutive years he was a member of the
American Legion, Post 16, of which he
Was a charter member and a past com-
mander.

1925

‘THomMas M. HARMAN, a partner in the
law firm of Jones, Day, Cockley & Reavis
in Cleveland, Ohio, and an authority on
workman's compensation, died March 6,
1967. Mr. Harman received his law degree
from the University of Michigan and was
associated with the Cleveland firm for
thirty-nine years. He was a member of
the Court of Nisi Prins, the Cleveland
and the Ohio State Bar Associations, the
Hermit Club, and the Clifton Club of
which he was a past president.

Dr. WittiAM Buster McGee, a_ widely
known obstetrician and gynecologist, died
February 15, 1967, in LaJolla, California.
A resident physician for thirty-two years,
he was a member of the San Diego
County Medical Society, the American
College of Surgeons and the American
Medical Association. He was a past presi-

   
 
   
    
   
  
  
  
 
 
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
   
   
 
   
  
   

dent of the Southwest Ob-Gyn §,
Recently he received a certificate
twenty-six years of service on the
of the San Diego County Hospital,

I

WittiAM Wicitr VENABLE, a forme
vinia legislator and Bahamas lang
veloper, died in Richmond, Virgini
April 13, 1967. Mr. Venable was
ternationally Known developer of N
the principal city of New  Provi¢
Island, Bahamas. He also was kne
a manufacturer of agricultural chep
in Grinnell, lowa. He once represg
the city of Norfolk in the Virginia
of Delegates,

I
RusseELL MAbIsSON CUMMINGS, prom
Lexingtonian and postmaster since
died April 7, 1967, alter a short il
Mr. Cummings joined the post office
in Lexington in February, 1937; 1
came a regular clerk in 1948 ane
appointed assistant postmaster in
ig58. A native of Rockbridge County
Cummings had been active in comm
affairs and was a past president ¢
Lexington Lions Club. Before begir
his career with the post office depart
Mr. Cummings was employed by
State Theatre and later managed
berg’s Music Store here in Lexingtor
was a member of the Lexington
byterian Church and a former Chai
of the Board of Deacons. He is su
by his widow, the former Miss
Frances Nicely, and three sons,

1 r

JAmes Epwarp Brown, a foreign co
pondent with International News Se
since 1935, died in December, 1966.
Brown held assignments in Paris, Me
Warsaw, Bucharest, Ankara, London,
Delhi, Chungking and other Eure
cities. In 1945 he had a book, “R
Fights,” published by Scribners.

] "

Joun Davin Locke, cotton merchan
Houston, Texas, and former presiden
the Texas Cotton Association, died
g, 1966. He was owner of the cotton
change firm, S. B. Locke & Company

19

CuirrorD M. Swan, Judge of War
County (Ohio) Juvenile and _ Prot
Court, died March 6, 1967. He was a
cessful practicing attorney in the vill
of Mason, Judge Swan was elected to
bench in November of 1966. At one ©
Mr. Swan was a special editorial assist
to the city editor for the Cinci

Inquirer.
19

Ropert A. STREETER, JR., a resident
Essex Falls, N. J., died January 5, 196

THE ALUMNI MAGAZI

 

 

Fe ne
gli amen

ra ee ey
i 3 Taye Hi

—_]

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Commemorative Plates
(Wedgwood)
Sold only in sets of eight different scenes

Price, $27.00 per set, f.0.b. Lexington, Virginia

Available in blue color only

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

THE PERFECT GIFT

The Washington and Lee Chair

with crest in five colors

” . r
eae” ee) Ante Slee
re tcas eg is
te ras he

~ Pho oO
. » *
ea A F "
eRe ae ore
i Pd Aan FO OT ey
8 SN ta ee SS”
aD > ~ Se “A A * > en

ee" 7
. < “he

es
eS eS

 

This chair is made from northern birch and rock maple—hand-rubbed

in black and gold trim (arms finished in cherry). A perfect gift for

Christmas, birthday, anniversary or wedding. A beautiful addition to

any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to
the scholastic fund in memory of John Graham, ‘14.

Mail your order to:
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

Prices $34.00 f.o.b. Gardner, Massachusetts

 

 

