UGUST 1969

—

~~

7s
=
A
>
a
—
e

 

 

 

 

oer
oa
ede eh
‘

oe
ip
ca

eee
sf sa

x
4.
=?

em ee. aes

Ke Vr Se
a

3
og te
-*

Pa
~~

o
add

is
oa

aon

¥

ane

 

WASHINGTON anp LEE
ALUMNUS

VOLUME 44 NUMBER 4
AuGusT 1969

CONTENTS

1 The Quiet Commencement
5 Change Without Upheaval
6 Campus News

15 ‘‘Beat Those Wahoos”

16 A Man and His River

18 Athletics |
20 Development

21 Chapter News

24 Class Notes

- COVER: ei

Our cover symbolizes the quiet

campus. A 1969 graduate takes
a final look at the University

bulletin board before the be-

ginning of commencement exer-
cises. See story on Page 1.

Editor:
William C. Washburn, ’40

Managing Editor:
Romulus T. Weatherman

Associate Editor and Photographer:
A. Michael Philipps, '64

Editorial Assistant:
Mrs. Joyce Carter

Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.:

Fred Bartenstein, Jr., '41, President

John M. Jones, III, °37, Vice-President
William C. Washburn '40, Secretary
Charles F. Clarke, Jr., ’38, Treasurer

Board of Directors:

Fred Bartenstein, Jr., ’41
5 pion Bear. 33
oe F. ;
Charles F. Clarke, Jr., ’38
A. Christian Compton, '50
Warren H. Edwards, ’39

BD opnd tras
Edward FF Ould, '29
Emil L. oa ¥ ae a és
Beaure Redmond, ’
Richard H. Turrell, '49
Editorial Board:

Paxton Davis
Frank J. Gilliam, '17

ed Bartenstein, Jr., ‘41
William C. Washburn, °40 !
James W. Whitehead |

Published in Fe ruary, April, June,
August ber December

b
, October, an m
Washington and Lee University
Alumni _ Ine., Lexington, Vir a
24450. All communications and D

ington and Lee

Inec., Lexington, Virginia . Sec-

ond class postage paid at Lexington,

Virginia, with additional ma ling
vileges at Roanoke, Virginia, an
ashington, D.C.

It is that time of year again, and
I will probably hear from some quar-
ters about alumni who are disap-
pointed because Washington and Lee
did not offer admission to certain
applicants. Such disappointment is
understandable, particularly in the
case of sons of alumni.

But by now, I would think, the
University’s admissions policy regard-
ing sons of alumni is well known.
That policy was explained at length

In the spring issue of W&L: The

Magazine of Washington and Lee

University. Briefly, it is the policy of
_ the Committee on Admissions to offer
admissions to those sons of alumni

who have demonstrated they are
qualified to complete work here suc-
cessfully. Alumni sons, in fact, re-
ceive preference and do not face the
general competition of all those ap-

plying for admission to the freshman

class in any one year. The Committee
on Admissions goes to extremes in of-
fering admission to alumni sons
whose records may indicate apparent
risk in the probability of their suc-
cess. But while the Committee recog-
nizes an obligation to respect the mo-
tives which lead alumni to urge ac-
ceptance of their sons, it also recog-

A STATEMENT: The following is a statement of ownership, management, and circulation of
the Washington and Lee Alumnus as required by Act of Congress of Aug. 24, 1

by the Acts of March 3, 1933, July 2, 1946,
ashington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.,

nizes the injustice to a young man of
offering him admission when, in the
best judgment of the Committee,
every indication is that he would not
be able to do the work necessary to
remain at Washington and Lee.

We often hear about alumni sons
who are not offered admission. But
we seldom hear about the sons who
are accepted and then choose to go
elsewhere. Washington and Lee re-
spects the freedom of young men to
choose the college they want to at-
tend. Still, I sometimes wonder about
alumni interest and persuasive sup-
port in such cases.

In any case, I am happy to report
that 76 sons of alumni completed ap-
plications for the class entering in

_ September, 1969. Of this number, 54
(or 71 per cent) were offered admis-

sion. By comparison, only 65 per cent
of all other applicants were offered
admission. Of the 54 sons of alumni
offered admission, 33 confirmed their
acceptances, and 21 apparently de-
cided to go elsewhere.

The University is proud of those

$3 sons of alumni who chose to come

to Washington and Lee this fall and
extends to them a very warm welcome.
We are sorry that we did not get the
other 21 and extend to them all good
wishes and success at their chosen
college.
—William C. Washburn
Editor

d June 11, 1960. The magazine is owned by
and is entered as second class matter at the Post

Office in Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing privileges at Roanoke, Virginia,

1, and Washington, C. 20013. William

C, Washburn is editor and business manager.

There are no bond, mortgage, or other Serenity, mere The average number of copies of

each issue during the 12 preceding months was

Ts

a;
on.
we

i. 3

we

“
912, as amended 4

  
    

CAMPUS

Commencement Is Sentimental
And Reflective with a Bit
of Youthful Disillusionment

By Robert G. Holland

Director of Public Relations

While the rites of graduation grew ever more up-
roarious and violent on some much-publicized campuses,
Washington and Lee had a sentimental and reflective
220th commencement with only a trace of youthful
disillusionment.

Seated on the front lawn, an audience of some 1,700
persons basked in a warm June 6 sun as the largest
class in Washington and Lee University history took
degrees. The Class of 1969 totaled 327 (270 undergradu-
ate and 57 law); it was the first time there had been more
than goo, exclusive of honorary degrees.

An exceptional young man was the class valedictorian.
Samuel D. Hinkle, IV, of Shelbyville, Ky. finished his
four years with a perfect 4.00 grade-point average. More-
over, he was captain of the track team, a varsity foot-
ball player for four years, a student government official,
and chairman of the 1969 CONTACT symposium which
brought Sen. George McGovern and several other promi-
nent men to campus to discuss “Power” in depth.

As his farewell, Sam sought to discard the usual
superlatives and leave the W&L community and graduat-
ing class something to think about. In a “tell-it-like-it-is”
talk, Hinkle had both warm praise for Washington and
Lee’s ideals and words of disappointment for academic
promises unfulfilled. “I’m half mad at all those white
columns, but half awed by the gift of those brick walls,”
he said.

While Hinkle tempered the occasion, a tribute to
Dean Emeritus Frank J. Gilliam triggered an outpour-
ing of sentiment and enthusiasm that culminated in a
standing ovation for “the good dean.” Dean Gilliam was
one of five men who were conferred honorary degrees by
the Universty. He received the Doctor of Laws.

“To thousands of Washington and Lee alumni, and
to countless others as well, he is the bright and living
symbol of Washington and Lee,” the degree citation
said of Dean Gilliam. ‘““His devotion to Alma Mater has
been and remains total, the commitment of his life in
its behalf complete and unselfish.”

“For thirty-seven years his wisdom, experience, and
intuition shaped the very character of this University’s

Dean Gilliam acknowledged standing ovation after receiving
honorary Doctor of Laws degree.

 

2; CAMPUS

 

Valedictorian Hinkle was “half mad at all those

white columns ... half awed by .. . those brick walls.”

student body. As Director and Dean of Admissions, his
sound judgment brought generation after generation of
young men onto this campus. And, then, as Dean of
Students, his wise counsel sustained and encouraged them
along the diverse paths toward academic and personal
achievement.”

A native of Lynchburg, Va., Dean Gilliam received
his A.B. at W&L in 1917 and his A.M. at Columbia in
1928. He joined the W&L English faculty in 1926, and
became Dean of Students in 1931, also handling admis-
sions for many years. Although he “retired’”’ in 1963, he
continues to serve W&L as an admissions consultant and
adviser to the President. His friendliness and ability to
know students on a first-name basis have become legend
at the University.

To the Gilliam sentimentalism and the Hinkle chal-

lenge, President Robert E. R. Huntley added a re-
flective note to the 1969 commencement, reviewing three
major changes which the University, he noted, had
adopted without the power Struggle and bitterness of
some other institutions. He referred to the sweeping cur-
riculum changes emphazing independent study, new
student self-government rules for dormitory life, and
changes in the structure of the Board of Trustees adopted
by the Board. All were approved this spring, the first
two by the faculty.

“These things I mention as examples because, of
course, they are recent and therefore much on my mind
at this time, but also because we can all be justly proud
that they grew out of the best kind of cooperative effort,
without bitterness or rancor, with deliberate thought and
with a large measure of respect for the interests and
viewpoints of others,”’ President Huntley said.

“They are principally significant, then, because they
serve to convince us that we can, as a University, con-
front the future without disintegrating into the kind of
factionalism where power ousts reason and where the
nobility of fine ideals is lost in the struggle of opposing
wills.”’

“For it seems perfectly clear to me,” President Hunt-
ley continued, “that there is no real solution to the di-
lemma with which a university is confronted if it must
organize itself to provide a structure for the reconciliation
of power centers in its midst, whether they be power cen-
ters within groups of the faculty, between faculty and ad-
ministration, or between faculty, administration and
students.”

President Huntley said dorm regulations were
changed, in part, to give students a larger measure of
self-control of their campus life, in keeping with W&L’s
traditional commitment to student responsibility. In part,
the changes reflected a desire to equalize to some exent
the social environment of freshmen with that of upper-
classmen, he added.

“Even more basically, however, it represents a grow-
ing awareness that the University will in the future
need to do more than it has in the past to provide an
additional dimension to student life by making available
to all classes an adequate number of sensibly regulated
dormitory units,” he said.

The significant point about the curriculum change—
adopted by the faculty after 18 months of study by a
faculty committee which drew on student advice—is that
“it represents our renewed conviction that we can achieve
our noblest educational aspirations; that we can find a
way to afford to our students both the breadth of ex.
posure and the depth of involvement which a liberally
educated man must have in these times,” the president
said.

“It is the fact of that commitment that is important,”
he went on, “for it represents on the part of this academic
community a willingness to engage in an intensive effort

- ”.
al i iy

CAMPUS.3

‘|

o.

 

Joining President Huntley were honorary degree recipients Luther W. White, III, Dean Gilliam,
Dr. Lloyd H. Smith, Dr. Robert H. Williams, and Dr. Frank A. Geldard.

which no one has demanded of it but which it has de-
manded of itself.”

The changes by the Board of Trustees—substituting
term membership for life membership, imposing a retire-
ment age, enlarging the size of the Board and providing
for regularized alumni representation—were ‘“‘prompted
from within the Board on its own initiative as a result
of nothing but its dedication to the future of Washing-
ton and Lee,” President Huntley said.

In his talk, Hinkle chided the University for what
he saw as an aura of nonintellectualism, but then gave
W&L credit for its ideals and contributions. Hinkle said
he could remember talking with student friends, “argu-
ing with conviction that learning was painful, and that
a lot of what didn’t hurt was drudgery.”

“I don’t mean that the whole learning process here
has been a bore,” Sam continued. “Some courses have
been glittering successes, but Washington and Lee has
failed me. Because I can see similar reactions of resigna-
tion to, scorn for, or detachment from the academic role
of the University, I think it has failed the class of ’69.”

“But to stop and think about it,’ Hinkle added later,
“I didn’t have a glimmer of what I think I can see now
when I came here. The promise is so exciting that I
have to ask how it got inside me. The only logical answer
can be that Washington and Lee is the reason for its
presence...
and Lee because of the promises it wasn’t able to keep.

At present, I’m disappointed in Washington

But it has shown me what the promise might be, and
has left me aching to get on with the job of fulfilling
it. W&L has made me more aware—and that’s a
significant contribution.”

In addition to the graduation of Hinkle and the 326
other academic and law seniors, five men received honor-
ary degrees from W&L and four of them had _ been
through previous W&L commencements. In addition to
Dean Gilliam, the alumni were Luther W. White, III,
president of Randolph-Macon College who received the
Doctor of Laws; Dr. Lloyd Hollingsworth Smith, Jr.,
chairman of the Department of Medicine at the San
Francisco Medical Center of the University of Cali-
fornia, and Dr. Robert H. Williams, professor of medi-
cine and head of the Division of Endocrinology and
Metabolism at the School of Medicine at the University
of Washington.

Both Dr. Williams and Dr. Smith received the
Doctor of Science, as did a non-alumnus, Dr. Frank A.
Geldard, Stuart professor of psychology at Princeton
University, former University of Virginia dean, and
long-time friend of W&L.

President White, a 1949 cum laude graduate of
W&L’s School of Law, was hailed for having the courage
to leave a law practice in his native Norfolk to “sit in
the hot seat of a college president.’’ Because he made the
decision in 1967 to return to Randolph-Macon, where
he received his undergraduate education, the citation

A CAMPUS

noted that “at least some voices of discontent will find
a sympathetic and understanding ear; and those who
would discover answers and solve problems have a will-
ing and able companion in this search for what is good
and necessary.”

Dr. Smith was graduated, summa cum laude, from
W&L in 1944 and received his M.D., magna cum laude,
in 1948 from Harvard Medical School where he also won
the Henry Asbury Christian Prize as the first honor
graduate. He was hailed for bringing “new vigor and
quality to the teaching programs of the university hos-
pital system he concurrently serves as physician-in-chief.”
The citation also noted that Dr. Smith “has pioneered
the use of closed-circuit television as a medical teaching
device, and his laboratory studies in genetic and meta-
bolic diseases have won him respect and acclaim as a
researcher.”

Dr. Williams, who received his A.B. degree at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1929 and his M.D. from Johns Hopkins
in 1934, was praised for outstanding work in centers of
healing and teaching, including eight years on the Harv-
ard medical faculty, and 15 years as the first chairman
of the Department of Medicine at the University of
Washington. He is serving as president this year of the
Association of American Physicians. In his present post
at Washington, “students and faculty alike have enthusi-
astically endorsed a special course conceived and coordi-
nated by Dr. Williams in which the philosophic consid-
erations of medicine are explored, where young doctors
may ponder man’s spirit and his soul.”

Dr. Geldard, who served as chairman of the Uni-
versity of Virginia’s Department of Psychology and from
1960 to 1962 as Dean of the Graduate School of Arts
and Sciences there, was lauded as the leading research
authority on the vibratory sensitivity of the human body.
His research on human senses is opening up to his fellow
man “new sensations of perception and awareness,” the
citation said. Dr. Geldard, who received his bachelor’s,
master’s and doctoral degrees from Clark University, was
also praised for the assistance and advice he has rendered
W&L students on his frequent visits to the campus.

A day earlier—at the baccalaureate service in Evans
Dining Hall—members of the Class of 1969 were told
that their achievement will not be judged in terms of
the wealth they accumulate, or influence they exert, or
even their allegiance to “law and order.”

“Your achievement is to be judged rather in terms
of your effectiveness in removing the barriers which im-
prison men in poverty, behind racist walls, and hide
from them the light of hope,” said Dr. Louis W. Hodges,
professor of religion at Washington and Lee.

Dr. Hodges urged the young men to hold human
beings in higher esteem than principles or systems.

“We are guilty of the basic idolatry of being more
concerned with the preservation of social systems than
with the preservation for humane life. Some have con-

ceived their obligation to build a Communist system,
some a socialist system, and some to preserve a capitalist
system. Some have conceived their obligation to uphold
this principle or that, this moral code or that, the prin-
ciple of law and order, the principle of nonviolence, and
even the principle of violence. We have acted as though
systems and principles are more important than people,”
Dr. Hodges asserted.

“The living God is thought to have died because he
has not solved our problems for us. He has not told us
how to eliminate poverty, racial segregation, and the
unrest these bring in their wake, but what he has done
is establish the framework within which we must work
out our own solutions. Our difficulties stem from our
failure to accept that framework.

“The framework within which we will live if we are
to have humane life is a simple but demanding one. It
is that in God’s world people are always more important
than principles, systems, or moral codes. Systems are
made for men, not men for systems,” he declared.

On the morning of commencement day, 47 Washing-
ton and Lee ROTC cadets received second lieutenant
commissions in a ceremony in Lee Chapel. The speaker
was Brig. Gen. Clifford Pershing Hannum, deputy di-
rector of Individual Training for ROTC Affairs. The
General is a veteran of service in South Vietnam and has
held his present position in the Pentagon since October,
1967.

wG,

1

)

Sl b

 

Jim Chance of Malvern, Pa., one of.record 327 graduates,
and his fiancee headed for home and marriage.

Campus Activism? Yes... But

If taking over the administration
building or destroying university pro-
perty are “where it’s at,” Washington
and Lee University’s students were
apathetically “out of it” this year.

The 1968-69 academic year was
marked by what many observers be-
lieve was a high degree of student and
faculty activism at Washington and
Lee, where tradition has often been
more noteworthy than upheaval. The
activism came not in storming walls
but in implementing academic and
social changes that majorities of both
the faculty and student body desired
at W&L.

“The average student at Washing-
ton and Lee can see that things are
changing and are changing for his
benefit,” said Jay Passavant, the 1968-
6g student government president.
“This fact takes away much of the
initiative for protest.”’

Within the past year, the faculty
approved after student endorsement:

—A sweeping new curriculum that
will give students a wider freedom of
choice of courses, and will include a
six-week “‘short term” for independent

study or intensive work in a selected
field.

—Liberalized “parietal” rules that
permit students in each dormitory
unit to draw up their own regulations
for social hours, during which girls
may visit.

—Elimination of Saturday morning

classes in favor of a five-day schedule
of classes.

Rather than being the direct result
of pressure, these changes followed
detailed study and preparation by the
faculty. A faculty curriculum com-
mittee, for example, deliberated for
some 18 months before the curriculum
revisions were adopted. The key ele-
ments of curriculum change—relaxed
distribution requirements, a_ three-
term academic year of 12, 12 and 6
weeks, and changeover from a semes-
ter-hour system to a more flexible
one based on credits—were

originated
»y the faculty.

eeever, in each case, students
Played an important role in endors-

ing the changes.

A Student Curriculum Committee,

ae

CAMPUS.5

with a Vital Difference

. *
te ee,

 

Student Body President Jay Passavant—taking away much of the initiative for
protest. He is now an admissions assistant. (See story on Page 11.)

a wing of the student government,
worked hand-in-hand with the faculty
committee. When the question of
changing the curriculum came to a
head, student government mobilized
student opinion by conducting a poll.
Out of some 1,077 students who voted,
only 53 opposed the basic curriculum
change proposal.

Student government endorsed the
proposal for the five-day week which
was eventually adopted by the faculty.
And students serve as voting members
of the University’s Student Affairs
Committee, which produced the
dormitory self-government plan that
was accepted by the faculty.

“When a student feels a need for
change, or he has a gripe, he can take
it either to student government or to
the University administration, right
on up to the President,” Passavant
said. ““This factor of communication
is a definite asset at Washington and
Ree,

No one suggests, however, that all
proposals of W&L students are auto-
matically accepted. A proposal that
students be allowed to set their own
examination schedules was _ voted
down by the faculty. Nor do all stu-
dent suggestions come through the
channel of student government. A
new organization, the “Progressive

Students Alliance” (PSA), was formed
early this year to articulate desires of
a segment of the student body for
action by the University. According
to one leader of the organization,
Ronald W. Abrams of Roslyn, N. Y.,
PSA had about 45 members at its
peak of participation.

The PSA has submitted what it
terms “recommendations for consid-
eration by the administration in its
attempt to diversify the W&L.student
body and faculty.”

These recommendations include:
improved communication with black
colleges; increased recruitment of stu-
dents from poverty programs and in
predominately-black areas; extensive
use of students and faculty in recruit-
ment of other students and faculty;
use of alumni in efforts to reach more
high schools throughout the country
with personal representation; recruit-
ment of black teachers; appointment
of a black administrator for black ad-
mission and recruitment; and the ad-
mission of women to W&L.

The suggestions, according to Presi-
dent Robert E. R. Huntley, are being
given “serious consideration, just as
the propsals of all students and stu-
dent groups are taken into account.”

“The general concept on which the
recommendations are based is con-

 

©: CAMPUS

sistent with the University’s policy to
seek a diversified student body, com-
posed of qualified students of all races
and backgrounds,” President Huntley
said. “Some of the specific suggestions
are a part of University planning or
policy. Some may suggest courses of
action we will wish to pursue. Some
others may be found to be unfeasible
or unwise.”’

On the subject of student activism
in general, the President noted that a
large measure of student self-govern-
ment has been traditional at W&I..
Students administer their own Honor
System and much of the disciplinary
process, for example.

Abrams, a freshman, said about
three-fourths of the PSA’s members
are freshmen. He said that the group
feels it does not have to resort to dis-
ruptive tactics and non-negotiable
demands because the opportunities
for students to make their wishes
known at W&L are so plentiful.

“Communication is good here,” he
said. “Students are able to air com-
plaints freely and someone will listen.
The faculty knows what the student
body wants.”

Passavant, a senior from Beaver,
Pa., won two University service awards
this year—the coveted Frank J. Gil-
liam trophy and one of the Ring-tum
Phi citations—because of his ability to
lead the student majority in taking a
role in campus changes.

Passavant agrees that if communica-
lions is the forte of W&L, lack of di-
versity in the student body may be
its chief drawback. “But | think the
administration realizes this disadvant-
age,” he said. “The admissions pro-
gram is being revamped and the Uni-
versity 1s concentrating on getting per-
sons from other racial and SOC10-€Co-
nomical backgrounds.”

Also, he noted, student financial aid
programs are being increased signifi-
cantly at W&L. In addition to a
continuing extensive program of pri-
vately-financed scholarships, the col-
lege has begun participating within
the last three years in governmental
loan programs. During the just-com-
pleted academic year, approximately
$400,000 in financial aid went to Wk&L
students.

W&L, a University of approximately
1,450 men, had a high degree of geo-
graphical cosmopolitanism this year

in that students came from 45 States
and eight foreign countries. However,
a recent study showed that only 10
per cent of last fall’s entering class
came from families with incomes
under $10,000 per year. On the other
hand, 25 per cent of the class was
dependent on grants or loans to pay
part of the education costs, an indica-
tion of the growth of the financial aid
program and its role in diversifying
the student body.

—Rosert G. HoLianp
Director of Public Relations

Lane in Center

Kenneth P. Lane, Jr., a native of
Richmond and 1964 graduate of
Washington and Lee, has been ap-
pointed Director of W&L’s Student
Center, effective in July.

Following graduation, Lane, 27,
enrolled in Union Theological Semi-
nary (UTS) in New York. He was
awarded the Bachelor of Divinity de-
gree by that institution in May. He

is a graduate of St. Christopher’s
School in Richmond.

During the 1966-68 period, Lane
served in a two-year U'T'S-sponsored
internship with the Fairfax County,
Va., Public Welfare Department. He
was a full-time worker in child wel-
fare and protective services duties.

He will work with a Student Center
Committee and with other students
in organizing and coordinating pro-
grams in W&L’s new Student Union
building, which will open in Septem-
ber. The new facility includes a tav-
ern, television lounges, large meeting
rooms, a pool room, large lobby and
rooms for the music department.

While a student at the University,
Lane was active on the campus. He
was president of the Student Service
Society, vice president of the Uni-
versity Christian Association, president
of Finals Dance in 1964, and president
of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.
Lane was also editor of the Ring-tum
Phi, and was elected to Omicron Delta
Kappa, a national honor society which
recognizes leadership.

wer R
;

FERS y

LJ

 

Empty tavern chairs, but not for long—Student Center Director Ken Lane

waits for September business.

New Commerce Chairman

Dr. John F. DeVogt was named
head of the Department of Commerce
in Washington and Lee University’s
School of Commerce and Administra-
tion, effective June 1.

Dr. DeVogt, 38, is an associate pro-
fessor of commerce in the school. He
succeeded Dr. L. K. Johnson, 64, who
retired after serving as chairman for
20 years but will continue to teach.

Dr. Johnson has been teaching at
W&L since 1933. Prior to coming to
Wk&L, he taught for one year at the
University of Virginia and for five
years at Mercer University in Macon,
Ga. A native of Staunton, Dr. John-
son received his B.S. in commerce
from the Univeristy of Virginia in
1927 and his M.S. in commerce from
U.Va. in 1928. He received his Ph.D.
in business organization from Ohio
State University in 1943. He is the
author of two books: Marketing in
Virginia, and Sales and Marketing
Management.

Dr. DeVogt came to Washington
and Lee in 1962 as an instructor. He
advanced to assistant professor in
1966, the year he received his Ph.D.
from the University of North Caro-

 

 

a

New commerce chairman Dr. John DeVogt .. .

lina, and he was promoted to associate
professor the following year. He re-
ceived the B.S. degree at the Univer-
sity of North Carolina in 1957. He
has served on the computer, curri-
culum, graduate fellowships and stu-
dent financial aid committees, and is
a member of the recently-formed com-
mittee to study possible coeducation
at Washington and Lee.

Born in Detroit, Mich., he was
reared in Raleigh, N.C. He is secre-
the Southwestern

Association,
the Southern
Association, the Academy of Manage-
ment and the American Institute for
the Decision Sciences.

tary-treasurer of
Management and is a

member of Economic

Faculty Appointments

Sixteen appointments to the faculty
of the University, effective in Septem-
ber, were announced this spring.

Appointed associate professor of
journalism Ronald H. Mac-
Donald, assistant news director of
WDBJ-TV in Roanoke. A native of
Vermont, MacDonald is a graduate

was

of Vermont Junior College and was
a 1954 honors graduate of Boston

CAMPUS .7

 

. succeeds retiring Dr. L. K. Johnson

University. He worked with radio sta-
tions in Vermont and Massachusetts
before joining the WDBJ staff in
1956. The WDB] staff has won a
number of awards, including three
Douglas S. Freeman awards for pub-
lic service through broadcast journ-
alism.

Norris T. Aldridge was appointed
an instructor in physical education
and assistant football coach..He has
been a teacher and head football
coach at Natural Bridge High School
since 1966 and has also coached base-
ball and track there. He holds a B.S.
degree from the University of Rich-
mond, where he played football and
baseball, and has worked toward a
master’s degree in education at the
University of Virginia.

Appointed an assistant professor of
political science was Wayne G. Reiley,
who recently completed Ph.D. require-
ments at the University of Pittsburgh.
Reilly won the bachelor’s degree at
Middlebury College and the master’s
at Trinity College.

Appointed an instructor of political
science was Paul E. Corcoran, who
holds the bachelor’s from Princeton
and the master’s from Duke and is cur-
rently working toward a Ph.D. at
Duke.

3; CAMPUS

One new instructor in fine arts in
the College will also serve as artist-
in-residence for 1969-70. He is I-Hsi-
ung Ju, a native of China, who
taught for g0 years in schools and
colleges in the Philippines and _re-
ceived his Bachelor of Fine Arts and
Master of Arts in History degrees from
the University of St. Thomas in
Manila. Ju, 46, was a touring lecturer
from the University of Connecticut to
other New England universities last
fall. He has written several books.

Other new instructors and_ their
teaching fields will be:

Anthony M. Beichman, romance
languages. A native of New York City,
Beichman received his B.A. and M.A.
degrees from Columbia University
and expects to receive his Ph.D. from
the University of North Carolina in
August. He has been teaching French
at Lynchburg College.

Orville Kenneth Barnes, III, fine
arts. Barnes, who was born in Ohio,
holds the A.A. from Louisburg Col-
lege, the A.B. from the University of
North Carolina and expects to receive
the M.F.A. from the University of
North Carolina at Greensboro next
month.

James T. Cook, Jr., music and fine
arts. Cook, a 1954 graduate of W&L,
served during the first semester of the
current academic session as a replace-
ment for a professor on leave. He will
serve part-time in music in the De-
partment of Fine Arts.

Stephen H. Goodwin, English. A
native of Alabama, Goodwin holds
the B.A. from Harvard. He expects
to receive his M.A. this summer from
the University of Virgiina, where he
is currently teaching part-time.

William W. Johnson, romance lan-
guages. He is a native of Atlanta and
received his A.B. from Emory Uni-
versity and his M.A. from the Uni-
versity of North Carolina. He is a
candidate for the Ph.D. at the Uni-
versity of Kentucky.

Donald J. Lineback, German. A
1966 graduate of Washington and Lee,
Lineback is a native of Winston-
Salem, N.C. He has been a graduate
student at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill for the past
three years, and also has done part-
time teaching there.

Ansel F. Luxford, Jr., English. Lux-
ford, who lives in McLean, Va., holds

the B.A. from Colgate University and
the M.A. from the University of Vir-
ginia where he expects to receive his
Ph.D. this August.

Michael A. Pleva, chemistry. A
native of Springfield, Mass., Pleva
holds the B.S. and M.A. degrees from
Trinity College and for four years
has been a teaching fellow at the Uni-
versity of New Hampshire where he
expects to receive his Ph.D. this Sep-
tember.

Irwin T. Sanders, II, history. A
native of Richmond, Va., Sanders re-
ceived his B.A. from Centre College
and his M.A. from the University of

Virginia where he is working toward
his Ph.D.

Robert N. Steck, philosophy. A
native of Texas, Steck received his
A.B. from the University of Texas
and his M.A. from Yale University.
He expects to complete Ph.D. require-
ments at Yale this fall. He has been
an instructor for two years at the
University of Connecticut.

Kendall O. White Jr., sociology. A
native of Utah, White holds the B.S.
and M.S. degrees from the University
of Utah. He is currently a graduate
student at Vanderbilt University,
where he has completed all require-
ments for the Ph.D. except the thesis.
He has taught part-time at Utah and
Vanderbilt.

New Post for Mehl

An instructor of religion at Wash-
ington and Lee University has been
named to administer the University’s
expanding program of student fi-
nancial aid. John Edward Mehl, 32,
will assume the duties of Assistant
Dean of Students and Director of Stu-
dent Financial Aid and Placement,
effective September 1. He will succeed
Lewis G. John who became Dean of
Students in July.

Within the past four years, W&L’s
program of student financial aid has
grown considerably. More than $400,-
000 was awarded to W&L undergradu-
ates for the 1968-69 academic year.
Included are three government aid
programs in which W&L has chosen to
participate since 1966: College Work-
Study and Educational Opportunity
Grants under the Higher Education

 

Financial Aid Director Mehl

Act of 1965, and the National De-
fense Student Loans under 1958 legi-
lation. In addition, an extensive pro-
gram of privately-endowed scholarship
aid is continuing.

Mehl, a native of Pennsylvania,
joined Washington and Lee’s depart-
ment of religion last September. A
graduate of Dartmouth College and
of Pittsburgh Theological Seminary,
he holds the Master of Theology de-
gree from Union Theological Semi-
nary in Richmond. He also is under-
taking doctoral studies in higher
education administration at the Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh. Before enrolling
at Union Theological Seminary, Mehl
worked for four years as an associate
minister of a United Presbyterian
Church in Pittsburgh.

In addition to handling financial

aid and placement, Mehl will assist
the director of admissions.

Faculty Promotions

The promotions of 12 faculty mem-
bers at Washington and Lee Univer.
sity were anounced in May. All of the
promotions will be effective in Sep-
tember.

In the College, men promoted from
the rank of associate professor to pro-
fessor, and their teaching fields, were:
Dr. Cleveland P. Hickman, Jr., biol-
ogy; Dr. Emory Kimbrough, Jr., so-
clology; Dr. Samuel J. Kozak, geology;

and Richard Miller, physical educa-
tion.

Advancing from assistant professor
to associate professor were these teach-
ers: Verne D. Canfield (head basket-
ball coach), physical education; Dr.
John M. Evans, English; Emmett G.
Leslie, Jr. (head football coach),
physical education; Dr. George W.
Ray, III, English; and W. Dabney
Stuart, III, English.

Those promoted from instructor to
assistant professor were: Dr. Arthur
B. Scharff, romance languages; Rich-
ard E. Szlasa (head lacrosse coach),
physical education.

In the School of Commerce and Ad-
ministration, Dr. John C. Winfrey
was promoted from assistant profes-
sor to associate professor of economics.

igh on AAUP’s List

Washington and Lee has become a
leader among the nation’s private in-
dependent colleges in faculty com-
pensation.

The 1968-69 survey of faculty in-
come by the American Association of
University Professors showed that the
University is led by only a handful
of institutions similar in size and
character. The University moved
ahead of several colleges in its categ-
ory and continued to lead all institu-
tions in Virginia, except the Univer-
sity of Virginia and its School of
Medicine.

Washington and Lee with average
compensation of $14,791 (salary plus
fringe benefits) of full-time faculty
members ranked 64th among the more
than 1,000 institutions reporting
figures to the AAUP for the 1698-69
academic year. The great majority of
schools outranking W&L are large
private or state-supported graduate
institutions.

The 1968-69 standing was a major
improvement for the University. W&L
ranked 8grd in 1967-68 with average
compensation of $13,254 and 1o1st in
1966-67 with average compensation of
$12,361.

In the 1968-69 rankings, W&L
pulled slightly ahead of such similar
colleges as Williams ($14,756), David-
son ($14,681), Bryn Mawr ($14,459),
and Kenyon ($13,607). The University
was led by such colleges as Amherst

($16,854), Haverford ($15,700), Wes-
leyan ($15,376), Colgate ($15,069),
Oberlin ($15,056), and Swarthmore
($14,938).

“We are proud that Washington
and Lee’s faculty compensation as re-
ported by the AAUP ranks the Uni-
versity near or ahead of many colleges
of comparable size and purpose,” said
University President Robert E. R.
Huntley. “This is certainly one of the
most important aspects of maintain-
ing overall excellence at the Univer-
sity. We hope to maintain a high level
of faculty compensation at Washing-
ton and Lee and to continue to raise
that level within the limits of our
financial resources.”

Washington and Lee has main-
tained a grade of B for several years
under the AAUP’s average faculty
compensation scale. In Virginia, only
the University of Virginia with an
average Of $15,622 (compared to
W&L’s $14,791) has a grade of A.
Hollins with an average of $12,503
achieved a B grade this year. The only
other Virginia institutions with B
grades were the Medical College of
Virginia (now a part of Virginia Com-
monwealth University) and the Uni-
versity of Virginia School of Medicine
(preclinical faculty).

Under the AAUP’s scale for average
compensation by faculty rank, Wash-
ington and Lee in 1968-69 had a grade
of B for full professors, A for associate
professors, and AA for assistant pro-
fessors and instructors.

Washington and Lee’s compensa-
tion of full-time faculty members per
student equivalent was $1,286, the
highest in Virginia except U.Va.'s
medical school. W&L had 126 full-
time faculty members and 1,460 stu-
dents in 1968-69.

 

CAMPUS.9

Ladtes (?) And Gentlemen

Would coeducation make dating
more “natural” and enhance the edu-
cational climate? Or would it lower
the quality and alter the traditional
objectives of all-male or all-female
liberal arts colleges?

Last May, arguments were voiced
on both sides of the issue at Wash-
ington and Lee University as the de-
bate over the possible institution of
coeducation at all-male W&L warmed
up a bit.

A forum sponsored by Lambda Chi
Alpha fraternity sparked many opin-
ions, but the consensus was that few
substantial facts were brought into the
open on coeducation. Dr. Louis W.
Hodges, W&L professor of religion
and chairman of a University commit-
tee studying coeducation, moderated
the panel.

Prof. Eleanor Barton, chairman of
the Fine Arts Department at Sweet
Briar College, argued for the preserva-
tion of some single-sex colleges.

“Since probably 95 per cent (of
colleges) will be coeducational, I do
advocate most strongly keeping a few
institutions alive for those persons
who can best be trained for a highly
complex society in this kind of single
institution,” she said.

She said a “bit of a bandwagon”
effect has begun in higher education
in which “you are regarded as a re-
actionary unless you advocate coedu-
cation. I like to think that maybe time
is on our side, and that within three
to five years our kind of institution,
instead of seeming reactionary, will
be regarded as widely experimental
and novel.

“Quite seriously, I believe it will

 

A point beyond debate—most coeds are worth watching.

10: CAMPUS

be only within the context of such
relatively small and highly selective
and carefully operated colleges that
very interesting educational experi-
mentation can take place, because we
will know the audience with whom
we are dealing and can more properly
train for the particular needs of our
clientele.”

The first result of coeducation at
Vassar, she added, was that the
woman director of admissions, who
had served for many years, was re-
placed by a man. The next step in
a formerly woman’s college could be
fewer places for women faculty mem-
bers and women students, she con-
tended. “I’m desperately afraid that
in a very short time 75 to 100 years
of progress in women’s education
would be very quickly wiped out.”

Dr. Delos Hughes, associate profes-
sor of political science at W&L, said
it’s not a question of whether the
continuation of education at W&L
depends on going coed. “The real
question is whether education at W&L
will be better if it is coeducational
than it will be if it is not coeduca-
tional.”

He argued that the absence of
women from the W&L campus as an
“integral part of this community” is
“a positive distraction from good
education at Washington and Lee and
that the presence of women just as a
part-time part of the community only
serves to aggravate the situation rather
than easing the distraction which
their absence represents.”

The W&L student must go to “such
extraodinary lengths in terms of the
time, energy and ingenuity he must
exert in order to have a satisfactory
social life that it becomes a_preoc-
cupation, sometimes even an_ obses-
sion with him.”

Ordinary social relationships, in-
cluding the student’s behavior, be-
come exaggerated in the non-coeduca-
tional environment, he contended.
The arrangement “puts a premium
on irresponsible social behavior,” he
argued.

Bruce E. Downing, a W&L senior
from New York, reinforced Dr.
Hughes’ point of view, noting the
existence at W&L of a so-called “stud
image’’—the image of the student who
makes the trip to a woman’s college
in mid-week and has a date, “as if

this is something unnatural.”

At coed colleges, dates of a_half-
hour or hour, and “study dates’ are
common, but at W&L because of the
distance which must be traveled to
girls’ schools, dates last for extended
periods and studying is ‘‘a very rare
thing,”” Downing said. Only one
woman's college, Southern Seminary
Junior College at Buena Vista (six
miles away) is within 35 miles of
W&L. Downing contended the isola-
tion adversely affects W&L students’
“outlook and relationships with the
female.”

James C. Hamill Jr., a W&L senior
from Oklahoma City, argued that to
initiate coeducation at W&L would
require “a fundamental redefinition
of what this University is.” He said
W&L has specialized in pregraduate
education of persons for fields of law,
business, medicine and academic fields
in which men “have traditionally
dominated.”

Coeducation would require a de-
emphasis of W&L’s traditional pro-
grams such as commerce and science,
and vast expansion of fields such as
education and art in which women
have dominated, Hamill argued.
Furthermore, there is no guarantee
that the women who would apply to
W&L would have academic standards
as high as the male students, he said.

Downing and Dr. Hughes argued
that W&L would attract women stu-
dents who were interested in majoring
in the subjects that the University al-
ready offers.

The faculty-student study commit-
tee headed by Dr. Hodges is attempt-
ing to gather objective data on the
subject of coeducation and is schedul-
ed to make a report by the end of
1969.

Gordon Scholarship

Washington and Lee has received
a bequest of $34,230 for establishment
of a scholarship fund for students who
show academic promise in their fresh-
man year. The funds come from the
estate of Mrs. Florence Fern Bailey
Gordon of Houghton, Mich.,
specified in her will that the money
be used to set up, in the name of her
deceased husband, the “Colonel Lewis
Coleman Gordon Scholarship.”

who

Col. Gordon was the son of Dr.
Edward Clifford Gordon, treasurer at
Washington and Lee under Robert
FE. Lee, and a trustee of the Uni-
versity from 1888 to 1922. Col.
Gordon, a native of Salem, attended
W&L from 1904 to 1907. He served
with the Army Corps of Engineers in
World War I and was commanding
ofiicer of ROTC at the Michigan Col-
lege of Mining and Engineering in
Houghton where he retired in 1946,
He died in 1961. His widow died in
October, 1967.

Under the terms of the bequest, the
funds are to be invested and a schol-
arship awarded to a sophomore who
has demonstrated an above average
academic record during his freshman
year at W&L. The student may con-
tinue to receive the scholarship in his
junior and senior years.

 

Development Assistant Bill Tyler

Development Aide

William C. Tyler, a 1969 graduate
of Washington and Lee University,
joined the University staff as assistant
director of development, effective
July 1.

Tyler, 21, will have as his special
responsibility the direction of Wash-
ington and Lee’s annual giving pro-
grams, including the Alumni Fund
and the Parents’ Fund. He will also
assist Farris P. Hotchkiss, director of
development, in general development
work.

A native of Louisville, Ky., where
he was graduated from Waggener

High School, Tyler was a Dean’s List
student at Washington and Lee. He
served as house manager of his social
fraternity, a member of the Univer-
sity’s Dance Board, and as Young Re-
publican Community Service Chair-
man.

Under a Robert E. Lee Research
Grant, he has conducted research on
hiring, recruiting and promotional
policies of banks. During recent sum-
mers, he has worked in the Foreign
Exchange Camper Program of the
YMCA, as a salesman, as an account-
ant and desk clerk for a Cape May,
N. J., hotel, and as a teller in a man-
agement training program of a Louis-
ville bank.

Admissions Assistant

The University has appointed last
year’s student government president,
who graduated from W&L in June, to
the administrative staff of the Univer-
sity. John E. (Jay) Passavant, III, of
Beaver, Pa., joined Washington and
Lee’s staff July 1 as assistant to the
director of admissions.

He will assist in making extensive
visits to secondary schools, in inter-
viewing candidates for admission and
in other general admissions duties,
Director of Admissions James D.
Farrar said.

The appointment of the recent
W&L student begins what the Uni-
versity’s leadership hopes will be a
regular program to bring the views
and capabilities of a young graduate
annually into at least a year’s service
to Washington and Lee.

‘We hope we will be able each year
to bring an outstanding member of the
senior class—not necessarily the stu-
dent government president—into a
year’s internship in administrative
work,” President Huntley said. The
work could be in admissions or in
other fields.

At commencement this year, the
W&L faculty voted Passavant the
Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medallion
for his personal qualities and service
to others. Passavant also was a co-
winner of the coveted Frank J. Gil-
liam Award, named for W&L’s dean
emeritus, which goes to a student who
has made the most valuable contribu-
tions to student affairs.

7
ee “ ote.

z eS See

To stress a point, Dan Rogers built a “mettle”

As student government president
during 1968-69, Passavant played a
key role in mobilizing student opinion
behind sweeping change in the cur-
riculum that will allow students wide
opportunity for independent study.
The curriculum will become fully
effective in September, 1970.

Coed Foreign Study

Four Washington and Lee students
are among g5 students from 45 col-
leges and universities who have been
admitted to the 1969-70 Sweet Briar
Junior Year in France. The coeduca-
tional program of a year of foreign
study has been administered by Sweet
Briar College since 1948.

W&L students who were selected
were: George Messenger Foote, Jr.,
political science major from Alex-
andria, La.; Robert Monroe Gill,
political science major from Blacks-
burg, Va.; Edward Wren Hudgins,
French major from Richmond, Va.;
and Bate Carpenter Toms III, politi-
cal science and history major from
Martinsville, Va.

After arriving in France next Sep-
tember, the students will go to Tours
for six weeks of intensive language
drill. They will then enroll in the
winter term at the University of Paris
and associated institutions. In both
cities, they will live with French fami-
lies.

CAMPUS

 

ae

 

-

tester.

The Better Mousetrap

Dan Rogers didn’t exactly build the
better mousetrap, but he did come up
with a Rotating-Beam Reversed-Stress
Fatigue Tester. The sophisticated
mechanism, not unlike one a modern
industry might employ, was con-
structed by Rogers last year under the
University’s Robert E. Lee Under-
graduate Research Program.

Pictures of fatigue testers used in
industry provided the only directions
that Rogers, a W&L senior from Meri-
den, N. H., had for building the com-
plicated tester. The mechanism tests
the amount of fatigue that a revolv-
ing piece of metal can withstand be-
fore breaking. Weights are suspended
from the material as it rotates. A
person is able to plot the stress versus
the number of revolutions and thus
compare the strengths of various speci-
mens. This principle is used in in-
dustry for such items as the moving
parts of airplanes.

The year-long project was not with-
out its bugs.

“At first, the machine would keep
breaking before the sample or speci-
men,” Rogers said. “It was kind of
discouraging.”

Learning by doing, the student
soon perfected his fatigue tester.
Henry L. Ravenhorst, professor of

engineering at W&L, said Roger's

IZ-CAMPUS

creation will become a regular in-
structional aid in the Materials of
Engineering course at W&L this fall.

Rogers, who graduated in June, left
his fatigue tester behind to enroll at
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in
civil engineering. He was a_physics-
engineering major at W&L.

The Robert E. Lee Research Pro-
gram provides funds for qualified
and strongly motivated students to
become familiar with research tools,
techniques and methodology. The
grants enable the research partici-
pants to earn a part of the cost of
their education while receiving a
valuable educational _ experience.
Projects are of two types: carrying out
of a student-planned project under
a professor's supervision, or assisting
a professor in his research.

The Greek Ideal

The 1969 edition of The Calyx, the
University’s yearbook, was dedicated
by the student editors to Prof. James
G. Leyburn for his devotion to teach-
ing.

“Washington and Lee’s philosophy
of education has long emphasized the
importance of teaching by men whose
first love is the classroom,” the year-
book said. “Dedication to this philo-
sophy has resulted in our University’s
reputation of greatness. Dr. James
Graham Leyburn personifies this em-
phasis and enhances this reputation.

“Covering many areas, Dr. Ley-
burn’s courses are memorable and
exciting experiences shared by many
W&L students over the past twenty-
one years. Almost legendary now is
his annual lecture on the death of
Socrates.

“In several of his courses, Dr. Ley-
burn refers to the Greek ideal of
‘arete’—excellence in all that is admir-
able, with equal emphasis on versa-
tility and excellence. An outstanding
scholar and teacher in several areas,
an accomplished pianist, and a lead-
ing churchman, Dr. Leyburn has not
merely pursued the Greek ideal; he
has attained it.”

Dr. Leyburn came to Washington
and Lee in 1947 as Dean of the Uni-
versity. He resigned that post in 1955
to devote full time to teaching, serv-
ing as professor of sociology and act-

Dr. James Leyburn—“‘a legendary lecture’’.

ing head of the department and con-
ducting courses also in ancient history
and the Greek and Latin classics. Dr.
Leyburn came to W&L from Yale Uni-
versity, where he had taught for 20
years.

Honor Citation . . .

Washington and Lee has received a
national honor citation for the quality
of its special new program of financial
support, “The Robert E. Lee As-
sociates.”’

The University was one of six col-
leges in the nation to receive a Certifi-
cate of Special Merit for such pro-
grams from the American College
Public Relations Association.

The “Associates” program was
established in January, 1968 to pro-
vide a systematic, permanent method
of honoring and thanking alumni,
parents, and friends whose generosity
to Washington and Lee is clearly
above the ordinary.

Months of planning went into the
organization of the program by As-
sistant to the President Frank Parsons,
Director of Development Farris
Hotchkiss, and Alumni Secretary Bill
Washburn. They were seeking a uni-
que method of distinguishing the
University’s most outstanding sup-
porters.

When the ‘Associates’ continued
to draw unusual response during and
after its first year, Director of Publica-
tions Rom Weatherman submitted a
case study of the program to the
ACPRA for judging last May. An-

 

nouncement of the citation came dur-
ing commencement.

As of May, 178 persons had become
Robert E. Lee Associates. Those per-
sons had contributed $534,093 to
Washington and Lee under auspices
of the program.

Everyone who contributes $1,000 to
the program will always be listed as
a Lee Associate. The minimum gift
of $1,000 can be given any 12 con-
secutive months for any purpose. An
Associate is not dropped from the
membership rolls because he does not
contribute at the $1,000 level every
year, although it is the hope of the
Board of Trustees that every Lee As-
sociate who is able will do so each
year.

Robert E. Lee Associates are not
regarded merely as sources of financial
support but as a focus of leadership
for the continued well-being of the
University. One purpose of the pro-
gram is to satisfy the desire of many
persons to join a perpetual associa-
tion devoted to advancing the welfare
of Washington and Lee.

... And Yet Another

The University has received yet
another national citation, this one a
second place award from the Ameri-
can Alumni Council for its overall
program of fund materials.

The Washington and Lee presenta-
tion to the AAC included three
brochures mailed to alumni and _ par-
ents during the past academic year
and the Robert E. Lee Associates
special giving program.

‘ — —— es

The brochures depicted important
aspects of the University community
and were mailed in the fall, winter,
and spring. Subjects included the
sciences, faculty, and financial aid.

The AAC award followed by just
a few days announcement from the
American College Public Relations
Association that the University’s uni-
que Robert E. Lee Associates pro-
gram had been cited for its excellence.

Washington and Lee officials re-
sponsible for the AAC award were
Romulus T. Weatherman, director of
publications; A. Michael Philipps,
assistant director of publications; Far-
ris P. Hotchkiss, director of develop-
ment; and William C. Washburn,
executive secretary of the Alumni As-
sociation.

Mills-Hamill Impact

The awards of two graduating
seniors on Washington and Lee Uni-
versity’s debate team have made a
sizeable impact on an already-teeming
trophy case for the University’s
highly-successful teams.

Together, Christopher H. Mills of
Denver, Colo. and James C. Hamill
Jr. of Oklahoma City amassed go
awards during their four years as
W&L debaters. Mills won 19 awards,
and Hamill collected 11 at debate
tournaments throughout the state and

7 7s
’ ; bg A
S :
: .

Pi re
> ——~ c

Debaters Mills and Hamill returned winners.

nation. But both men count the re-
wards of debating more in intangible
than tangible terms.

The two seniors, along with W&L’s
other debaters, work under the tute-
lage of Coach William W. Chaffin, an
associate professor of English and
speech.

Chaffin expected the current aca-
demic session to be a “rebuilding”
year, because of the overall inexperi-
ence on this year’s team; however, it
turned out to be “an extraordinary
year,” he said.

The team won 13 trophies and 10
certificates at the 23 tournaments in
which it participated. And the two-
some of freshman John Reynolds of
Houston, Tex., and sophomore Tim-
othy Wright of Beaumont, Tex.,
qualified W&L for the first time for
the elimination rounds of the Dart-
mouth College Tournament, where
W&L placed in the top 16 out of 100
teams present.

During the past four years, Mills
has garnered awards in tournaments
at the University of Virginia, Univer-
sity of Richmond, Wake Forest, Uni-
versity of Miami, Northwestern,
Emory, the Naval Academy, and the
University of North Carolina. Hamill
has collected honors at St. Joseph's,
the Universities of Pennsylvania,
North Carolina, and South Carolina,
the Naval Academy, and New York
University.

 

CAMPUS.-13

Bon four, Professeur

Washington and Lee University
conducted a seven-week institute this
summer under the Education Profes-
sions Development Act to retrain
French teachers from throughout
the nation in the newest teaching
methods.

Fifty-five secondary school teachers
attended the institute, which began
June 2g.

Dr. G. Francis Drake, professor of
French, was institute director, and Dr.
C. Westbrook Barritt, professor of
modern languages and linguistics at
W&L, was associate director. Other
staff members included five natives
of France, public school teachers
from Ohio and Pennsylvania and
W&L professors.

Experienced teachers of second,
third, fourth and fifth year French
received retraining in the latest
techniques of audio-lingual teaching.
Conversation groups and some of the
instruction was conducted in the
target language.

Twenty-one of the teachers were
from Virginia schools, with others
coming from as far away as Cali-
fornia. Components of instruction in-
cluded structural drills and remedial
phonetics, laboratory practice, teach-
ing of literature, civilization and cul-
ture, and linguistics.

Eight into DSR-TKA

Eight students were elected last
spring to Delta Sigma Rho-Tau
Kappa Alpha, national honorary
forensic fraternity. To be selected, a
student must have had at least two
years of forensic work and rank aca-
demically in the upper one-third of
his class.

Students elected were: James C.
Hamill, Jr., senior from Oklahoma
City, Okla.; John M. McCardell, Jr.,
a sophomore from Hagerstown, Md.;
Paul E. Prince, senior from Potts-
town, Pa.; Andrew Wyndham and
Kevin R. Baker, both sophomores
from Lynchburg, Va.; Christopher
Herchold, junior from North Bergen,
N. J., and Timothy Wright and Stacy
Eastland, both sophomores from
Houston, Texas.

14:CAMPUS

Memorial Scholarships

The first McLaughlin and Baremore
Memorial Scholarships, named for a
beloved coach and an_ outstanding
student who died last year in separate
accidents, have been awarded at the
University.

Stephen Joseph Hannon, II, of
Pittsburgh, Pa., is the winner of the
first Lee Massey McLaughlin Me-
morial Scholarship.

The scholarship is awarded to a
rising junior who has displayed those
qualities of excellence in relations
with his fellow man, devotion to
Washington and Lee, sportsmanship
and academic achievement that are
associated with the memory of Coach
McLaughlin, who was W&L’s head
football coach from 1957 until his
death on August 13, 1968. He was to
have assumed the duties of Athletic
Director the next month.

Hannon has distinguished himself
during his first two years at Washing-
ton and Lee as a member of the varsity
football team, as vice president of
Phi Kappa Psi social fraternity, and
as an assistant in stage management
of the Troubadours, the campus
dramatic organization. He will serve
the University in 1969-70 as a dormi-
tory counselor.

Establishment of the McLaughlin
Scholarship was assured when a small
group of alumni pledged to supple-
ment the many gifts from alumni and
friends with a sum sufficient to meet
the University’s endowment require-
ments.

R. Timothy Wright of Houston,
Tex., and Stephen R. Haughney of
Cleveland, Ohio, both rising juniors,
were named the first recipients of the
Tommy Mac Baremore Scholarship.

The scholarship is named for one
of W&L’s most promising students
who died on March 17, 1968 in an
accident in the Maury River near
Goshen Pass. Only a day before the
accident, Tommy Baremore, a senior
from Shreveport, La., had helped
qualify W&L for the National Invita-
tional Debate Tournament.

Baremore, consistently a Dean’s List
student, was twice recipient of the
Noell-Eckes Award for distinguished
service to W&L’s debate team. He

served as debate captain his junior
year.

Wright was a member of a highly-
successful W&L debate team which
qualified once again for the National
Invitational Debate Tournament. He
has participated in track and field and
the Young Republicans organization,
and he has served as manager of the
wrestling team.

Haughney has distinguished him-
self at W&L by exemplary scholar-
ship. A Dean’s List and Honor Roll
student, he is a member of Phi Eta
Sigma, a national honor society for
recognition of high scholastic attain-
ment among freshmen. He has also
served as a Mock Convention official,
a member of the Troubadours, and as
an officer of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity,
to which Baremore belonged. He has
been a member of the Student Cur-
riculum Committee.

Recipients of the scholarship must
have demonstrated substantial promise
that their undergraduate careers are
directed on paths of distinction remi-
niscent of the record of Tommy Bare-
more. Recipients are chosen by a
screening process involving adminis-
trators, faculty members and students.

The Tommy Mac Baremore Me-
morial Scholarship has been sup-
ported by the Baremore family of
Shreveport and by friends of Tommy
Baremore. A total of 61 persons have
contributed to set up the fund initially
and contributions are being welcomed
in order to insure a permanent fund
for the scholarship.

A Day of Fasting

A drive at Washington and Lee
University to raise money for the
Food for Nigeria/Biafra Fund result-
ed in contributions of almost $700
over a two-week period from May 19
to June 1.

Slater Food Service, which supplies
meals in Evans Dining Hall, was the
largest contributor with a check for
$200. More than $400 was contributed
by 12 of the University’s fraternities
which participated.

Seven W&L fraternities closed their
kitchens for a “day of fasting,” and
contributed the expense of food to
the drive. These were Sigma Phi
Epsilon, Zeta Beta Tau, Beta Theta

Pi, Kappa Alpha, Phi Epsilon Pi,
Delta Tau Delta and Sigma Nu. Col-
lection cans placed on campus re-
sulted in another $60.

The Young Republicans (YR) club
at W&L sponsored the drive. Hank
Graddy, past president of YR, was
chairman of the drive. Walter Sales,
president of the Young Democrats at
W&L, Bruce MacQueen, Calvin Sea-
ton, and Joe Wilson assisted Graddy.

New WLUR Manager

Philip C. Hubbard, a rising senior
journalism major from Montevallo,
Ala., will be Student Manager of
WLUR-FM, the University’s educa-
tional radio station during the 1969-
70 academic year.

Selection of Hubbard was made by
a faculty committee of the W&L De-
partment of Journalism and Com-
munications, which operates WLUR
as a laboratory. Hubbard will succeed
S. E. Zimmerman, a graduating com-
merce major from Larchmont, N. Y.

Hubbard has served as a Senior
News Editor for the station and has
worked in all other phases—manage-
ment, engineering and music—of the
WLUR operation.

New SBA President

Mosby G. Perrow, III, of Altavista,
Va., has been elected president of the
Student Bar Association of the Uni-
versity School of Law for the coming
academic year.

Perrow, a rising senior in the School
of Law and a graduate of the Uni-
versity of Virginia, is the son of a
former State Senator from Lynchburg
who served as president of the State
Board of Education. The younger
Perrow’s father and grandfather were
W&L alumni.

Other new officers are: Beverly C.
Read of Lexington, Va., vice _presi-
dent; Frank G. Selbe, III, of Charles-
ton, W. Va., secretary; and Jerrald J.
Roehl of Albuquerque, N.M., trea-
surer.

Selbe was also elected to serve with
Charles N. Bishop, Jr., of Lexington,
Va., as co-editor of the Washington
and Lee Lawyer, a semiannual pub-
lication sponsored by the Student Bar
Association.

A Look Back
At Cy Young’s
Great Ritual

  

ae

The following column by Jim Wamsley,’50, appeared
in the June 18, 1969 issue of the Roanoke Times. It is
reprinted here with the permission of the author.

Cy Young, the Washington and Lee athletic great
who later served as the most colorful alumni secretary
ever seen at Lexington or anywhere, was a renowned
pep rally orator. His performance on the night before
the Virginia game will live forever green in the hearts
of those former W&L men who can recall the salad days
of pre-deemphasis, when such types as Gil Bocetti and
Walt Michaels dismembered the Southern Conference.

Young spoke at many W&L pep ralllies, but he saved
himself for the night before the Generals met the Cava-
liers. Dapper, compact, walking with the quick, smooth
stride that old athletes never seem to lose, he paced the
wide platform down one side of Doremus Gymnasium,
stabbing the air with karate chops for emphasis.

When unavoidably he had to ride through Charlottes-
ville on the train, he said, he always pulled down the
shades. Even eye contact with the despised college town
“across the mountain’ might be contaminating. He
heaped scorn on ridicule, contempt upon insult. Shout-
ing hoarsely, his creased, tanned face gleaming with
sweat, he built to his crescendo, stomping and kicking on
the aged platform until it bounced, demanding from his
spellbound audience a pledge of undying hatred for all
Wahoos.

“Beat ’em,” he croaked, “beat those damned Wahoos.”
Then the chant came back at him in a roar from hun-
dreds of young throats.

It was a great ritual, and probably most of us en-
joyed it almost as much as the game itself. If anyone had
the wit to make a recording of Cy Young’s Wahoo speech
he should come forward with it and permit W&L authori-
ties to have it copied and pressed in quantity for sale
to alumni. It should be worth $100 a copy, at the least.

I forget whether de-emphasis came before Cy’s retire-
ment or after; before, I think. Either event must have
been a mortal blow to the more chauvinistic alumni, who
have wept a torrent equal to the Maury River at flood
crest. And when Dr. Francis P. Gaines, the complete
Washington and Lee president, retired and died there
was a somber void that unsettled still more graying
alumni heads.

PEOPLE -15

Perhaps the quiet years of the 60’s under President
Fred Cole served, to paraphrase Gen. Lee, to allow the
past be the past; to let the mortar dry on yet another
course in the walls of tradition. When young Robert E.
R. Huntley became president last year it was plain that
while his administration would stand on those walls,
in building for the future it would not be circumscribed
by them. Not that there was anything wrong. “Our repu-
tation is good, but we are better than our reputation,”
Huntley said.

Already one of the nation’s most prestigious inde-
pendent men’s colleges, it now is quite possible that
Washington and Lee will be going coed. By November
a study committee will report on whether this moment-
ous step should be taken, and if so should the student
body be increased beyond its long-traditional, 1,300-or-so
students. Why?

“It's quite apparent,” a University spokesman said
a few days ago, “that some highly qualified students, who
would make excellent Washington and Lee men, prefer
a coed environment and may be going elsewhere to find
it.’ Thus W&L, which never setgled for less than the
best students it could find, may be changing with the
times in order to maintain that most excellent of aca-
demic traditons.

Happily, the old school that sits lightly on the brow
of its hill in Lexington always maintains enough splendid
human continuity to assure that breaks with the past
are not the wrenching experience they might be. Cy
Young, in retirement at Irvington, still makes an occa-
sional campus appearance although we may be light-
years removed from beat-those-damned Wahoos. An age-
less Cy Twombly may have left the athletic director’s
office but he still is there to coach golf. Frank J. Gilliam,
dean emeritus and beloved Renaissance man, presides as
always at beautiful Belfield, just off campus, with his
gracious lady. They are comforting monuments to have
around as Washington and Lee faces the dimly seen crises
of the 1970s.

Editors’ Note: Asked to supply the Alumnus with a bit
of biography, Mr. Wamsley wrote and we quote: “...you
might say that I am 39, a graduate of the Class of 1950,
a veteran of both the Air Force and the Associated Press,
frequent contributor to national travel publications and
the U. 8. Information Agency, editor of The Common-
wealth and Sunday columnist for the Roanoke Times.
I might be more successful if I spent less time at my
hobby, which is tinkering with my 1922 Model T. My
faithful consort, the former Gwen Cooper of Clarksville,
has presented me with a son Cooper, 10, and daughter
Robin, 13. We live in Bon Air, which is sort of hard
core nouveau bourgeois. I dream of retiring to a moun-
tain farm in Highland County, where I can chew to-
bacco and keep hounds in the yard.” Our thanks to Jim,
and may his dreams come true.

16; PEOPLE

One Conservationist’s Fight
To Save the Mississippi
From Ills of Man and Nature

When Rudolph Jones starts talking about the Mis-
sissippi River, never mind if he becomes spellbound
while describing its beauty, magnitude, and _ heritage.
And never mind if he happens to take too much of
your time; Jones could go on for days telling you about

his love for the river, and you probably wouldn't mind
at all.

But you will have to pardon him if he gets a little
wrought up as he goes along. Jones is a conservationist—
an active, dedicated conservationist—and when he gets
to the part of his story about the flooding, pollution,
and encroachment of “progress” in and around the area
of Memphis, well, he gets all stirred up.

He talks about flooding, and man’s apathy toward its
dangers until only recently. He points out the creeping
threat of pesticides and herbicides. He questions the
location of industry along the Mississippi. And he wond-
ers why Memphis has just started its program of sewage
treatment. Heretofore, the city dumped its waste directly

in the river.

If Jones were bitter, few would blame him, for he
has spent a lifetime trying to remedy the ills of nature
and, particularly, man. But Jones isn’t bitter, or at
least he doesn’t sound like he is. Instead, he talks posi-
tively about what needs to be done, and, at the age of
6g, he has more energy and dedication than most men
half his years.

Since 1922, when he went back to the family home in
nearby Brunswick, Tenn., during a vacation from his
senior year of studies at Washington and Lee, he has
been enchanted with the Mississippi River.

“I was standing on a bluff overlooking the alluvial
valley,” he recalls, “‘and I couldn’t help but be concerned
about the effect flooding was having on the area. I sup-
pose it was then I decided I had to go back there for
good.”

Jones received his Bachelor of Science degree that
year, then spent the summer as a levelman on levee work
on the river between Deeson and Rosedale, Miss. Living
on a quarterboat made a lasting impression, he remem-
bers, and it guided him back to Lexington the following
year to take a second degree, this one in civil engineering.

In a recent letter to President Robert E. R. Huntley,
Jones said he was grateful for the University’s influence
at that time, and he paid tribute to those who taught
him: “The inspiration and patience of Professor Shan-
non of the English Department, Professor Lyle of the
Engineering School, Professor Smith of the Mathematics
Department, Professor Farrar of the German Depart-
ment, and Professor Campbell of the Geology Depart-
ment all combined to assist me in finding my primary
field of interest and enriched it with related subjects of
study.”

For the next 20 years, Jones gained broadening ex-
perience in engineering and construction projects in the
Memphis area, working on roads, bridges, tunnels, docks,
oad oat? hospitals, sewerage systems, and airports. He recounts
See } a ad Noes rs tg there was some unemployment during that time, too.

i
"4

:

- Le - , :
ie Viger) AUN we e
naa A. Rash:

Ya

Rudolph Jones is now getting help in his efforts to clean up
the river he loves.

 

PTOI
Ls) a
Meth
Te)
SOON ay
TTS

 

2

His work finally recognized at age 69, Jones was gazing out
the windows when the announcement came.

When he was called to active duty during World
War II with the Civil Engineer Corps of the U.S. Navy,
he was assigned to the Seabees and attached to the U.S.
Marine Corps. He was stationed at Quantico, then spent
17 months in the Pacific Theater.

Upon his return to the States in 1945, Jones became
manager of the Memphis Municipal Airport for six
months, and then won election as a Shelby County Com-
missioner, with special duties as Commissioner of Health.
In January, 1948, he was named Commissioner of Roads;
Bridges, and Penal Farms.

In the following 15 years, Jones set a tone of pro-
gress for the area. He directed the conversion of an out-
dated road system to a modern one, replaced timber
bridges with concrete and steel structures, and removed
chain shackles from inmates of the penal farm.

In 1963, with the creation of the Shelby County Con-
servation Board, Jones was retained as a consultant, a
position he has held ever since. In that time, the board
has been an active and vital force in land preservation
and development, and in municipal recreation pro-
grams.

“We have neglected all this far too long,” Jones says,
“but, finally, the public is responding. We now have a
plan for building two sewage treatment plants in Mem-
phis, for example, and they should eliminate much of
the pollution now going into the Mississippi.

“And we're continually seeking ways of preserving
and protecting the bottom land areas of the Mississippi
River and its tributaries,” he adds. “It’s going to take
time, but at least we’re headed in the right direction.”

Three area tributaries command much of Jones’ at-

PEOPLEZIZ

tention. The Loosahatchie River to the north of the city,
the Wolf River that flows through Memphis, and the
Nonconnah Creek that cuts through the southern edge
of town have each been studied carefully for erosion, pol-
lution, and development into recreational areas.

A far-sighted, and at that time bold, idea Jones ad-
vanced many years ago was to provide “greenways” (strips
of grassy land) on either side of the tributaries, and a
huge, long greenway along the Mississippi River,
stretching from the Shelby-Tipton county line to the
north down to the Tennessee-Mississippi state line.

The greenways would serve a dual purpose. They not
only would serve as relief areas (or flood plans) for flood-
ing, but also as locations for recreational parks and
playgrounds, many of which already have been com-
pleted.

And Jones’ idea that the Mississippi River greenway
be designated a national park has met with Federal ap-
proval and assistance. Dr. Edward Higbee, professor of
geography and land utilization at the University of
Rhode Island and a member of former President John-
son’s 12-member advisory board on open space and land
use, said that Memphis could become the most beautiful
river city in America if Jones’ plan could be formulated
into action.

There has been slow going, naturally, for such ven-
tures involve land acquisition, zoning procedures, fi-
nancing, and other bottlenecks. But there is also sufficient
evidence to indicate the support and cooperation of local,
state, and Federal government in the project.

With all of this, of course, Jones has a plan for
locating industry in such a way that would make the
most practical sense. He would like to see developed
“industrial cities” that would be served by nearby har-
bors, and these areas, would be located along the main
tributaries where they converge with the Mississippi.

There is more of Jones’ handiwork on the drawing
boards, things like control of soil erosion and depletion,
prevention of sediment transport, conservation of water,
stream pollution control and provision for eutrophica-
tion, land reclamation and land utilization planning, de-
velopment of more recreational areas, and so on.

It’s quite enough to keep the man busy. So busy, in
fact, that late last April, at the “Mississippi River Day”
meeting of the local Civitan Club, his presence came only
after heavy persuasion from his wife and a friend, Oscar
Bell. That day, Rudolph Jones was presented the Jack
Carley Award, recognition given annually by the Civitan
Club and the Memphis Commercial Appeal to the per-
son who has done the most to promote the river.

When the announcement came, Jones was gazing out
the sash windows of the Memphis Queen, an excursion
boat that was being used to commemorate the occasion.
He said later he was sort of daydreaming about the river,
enjoying its beauty and marvelling at its magnitude.

Something he’s been doing ever since that day on the
bluff back in 1922.

18: ATHLETICS

Ball and Hinkle Receive Top Athletic Awards of 1968-69

All-America swimmer Billy Ball
and senior class valedictorian Sam
Hinkle have received Washington and
Lee’s top athletic awards for the past
year.

Ball was presented the Preston R.
Brown Memorial Award as W&L’s
most valuable athlete. Hinkle receiv-
ed the Wink Glasgow Award, given to
the senior who demonstrates the best
qualities of true W&L spirit and
sportsmanship.

The awards were made during the
annual sports barbecue which con-
cluded the Generals’ athletic year.
More than go other presentations
were made to W&L athletes, recogniz-
ing their outstanding achievements in
12 sports. A total of 182 athletic mono-
grams were awarded to 161 individ-
uals, and g5 numerals were presented
to freshmen and junior varsity per-
formers.

Ball, a senior from Jacksonville,
Fla., achieved double All-America
honors in March at the NCAA college
division national swimming champ-
ionships. He also participated in track.
Hinkle lettered on the Generals’ foot-
ball and track teams, was a straight-A
student, and was a candidate for a
Rhodes Scholarship. He is from Shel-
byville, Ky.

Dave Brooks of Jenkintown, Pa.,
who broke into a starting role on the
Generals’ football team and who also
played baseball, received the Out-
standing Freshman Award.

Junior Mike Neer of Alexandria,
Va. gained awards in both basketball
and track, and senior Charlie Stewart
of Baltimore, Md. achieved two hon-
ors in lacrosse.

The top award winners were:

Baseball—Jim Wilson, senior from

Rockville, Md., for outstanding con-
tributions to baseball.

Basketball—juniors Mike Neer of
Alexandria, Va. and Mel Cartwright
of Martinsville, Va., for contributing
the most to the team on offense and
defense; junior Charlie Stone of
Martinsville, Va., for outstanding de-
fensive play; junior Stu Fauber of
Lynchburg, Va., for outstanding con-
tributions and individual leadership.

Cross-country—Harry Zeliff, senior
from Staunton, Va., for outstanding
contributions during his college ca-
reer.

Football—junior Dean Kumpuris of
Little Rock, Ark., for the best de-
fensive abilities; sophomore Doug
Gossman of Louisville, Ky., for ex-
cellence in blocking and qualities of
leadership; junior Chuck Kuhn of
Louisville, Ky. and senior Britt Mc-

Tweed > oo

ry | -
OD
ne ai lly 6 Ss ae

Ce ileal

* sae ute ae : ;
ius Sp ae a Re EO.
L pte get ee <¥ i, me ee

Sat, toe a ie

 

et Oe ow
ep ee E®, -s is

bed
— Fae al

Lefifielder Jim Wilson (No. 7) made triples a habit, won the top baseball award.

Junkin of Charleston, W. Va., for
their outstanding play on offense and
defense, respectively, in last year’s
Homecoming game; junior Michael
(Thunder) Thornton of Huntington,
W. Va., for being the “roughest and
toughest;” and junior Tom McJunkin
of Charleston, W. Va., for the most
improvement in One season.

Golf—Ken Carter, sophomore from
New Orleans, La., as the outstanding
golfer; Bob Mathews, senior from
Richmond, most improved golfer.

Lacrosse—senior Charlie Stewart of
Baltimore, Md., two awards, one for
leadership, sportsmanship, and ability,
the other for selflessness, courage, and

teamwork: senior Bart Goodwin of
Washington, D.C., for most team
spirit and dedication to lacrosse;

sophomore Whit Morrill of Monkton,
Md., for gaining possession of the
greatest number of ground balls.

Rifle—sophomore Mike Jenkins of
Fairfax, Va., for season high average;
junior Charles Frank of ‘Tanfallon,
Md., for first-year season high average;
junior Hugh Guill of Washington,
D.C., for overall contribution.

Soccer—Scott Fechnay, senior from
Mountain Lakes, N. J., for outstand-
ing and valuable leadership.

Swimming—senior Billy Ball of
Jacksonville, Fla. and sophomore Bill
Brumback of Baltimore, Md., as out-
standing swimmers; senior Ross For-
man of Birmingham, Ala., for out-
standing effort and teamwork; fresh-
man Bim Clark of Atlanta, Ga., most
improved swimmer.

Tennis—senior Tommy Rueger of

Virginia Beach, Va., for excellence and
leadership.

Track—junior Mike Neer of Alex-
andria, Va., for gathering the highest
number of points and for leadership,

team loyalty, and sportsmanship;
freshman Don Marshall of New

Orleans, La., for greatest improvement
of performances in competition.

Wrestling—senior Jay Clarke of
Richmond, Va., for excellence in per-
formance, leadership, and sportsman-
ship, and overall contribution to the
team; freshman Bill West of Jaffrey,
N.H., for hard work, spirit, and sacri-
fice; freshman Bill White of St.
Thomas, V.I., as most improved
wrestler.

Lacrosse Honors

Sometimes it pays to have a losing
record.

That may have been the case for
Washington and Lee’s lacrosse team
this past spring when a rebuilding
effort brought only a 1-8 season record
and more headaches than head coach
Dick Szlasa would wish on his worst
enemy.

For one day in early June, after
the United States Intercollegiate La-
crosse Association had completed bal-
loting, several Generals had _ been
honored with all-star recognition.

First, junior defenseman Ned
Coslett was placed on the third team
Little All-America squad. ‘Then, sen-
ior defenseman Charlie Stewart,
senior midfielder Bart Goodwin, and
sophomore middie Whit Morrill were
named to the All-South Atlantic di-
vision team. And, finally, Goodwin
was selected to play for the Rebels in

the annual North-South game in
Baltimore, which the Southerners
won, 12-11.

The announcements came as mild
surprises to W&L lacrosse followers,
and probably even to the players
selected. Usually, a troubled won-loss
mark precludes most possibilities of
individual all-star recognition.

Coslett has been a mainstay for
head coach Dick Szlasa for three years,
and will serve as co-captain next year.

Defenseman Ned Coslett

 

ATHLETICS 19

A guard for the football Generals, he
was one of 44 players from 20 colleges
and universities selected to the honor
team.

Stewart, who with Goodwin was a
co-captain this year, has been the Gen-
erals’ top-drawer defenseman for many
years. Tall and rangy, Stewart won
two team awards for his outstanding
career play at W&L.

Goodwin, a four-year veteran of
Generals’ lacrosse, held a starting posi-
tion for two years, and he received a
team award this year for spirit and
dedication.

Morrill won a starting spot as a
freshman last year, maintained it this
past spring, and led the team in pos-
session of ground balls. Szlasa rates
him as one of the top middies in the
South Atlantic area.

Team Captains

The University’s athletic depart-
ment has completed naming its cap-
tains for the Generals’ intercollegiate
programs next year. Altogether, 23
athletes were selected to head 12
teams. Those named were:

John Nolan of Wantagh, N.Y. and
Scott McChrystal of Arlington (base-
ball); Norwood Morrison of Lynch-
burg (basketball); Dave Haydu_ of
Fairfield, Conn. and Paul Wilber of
Salisbury, Md. (cross-country); Dean
Kumpuris of Little Rock, Ark.,
Michael “Thunder” ‘Thornton of
Huntington, W.Va., and Tom Mc-
Junkin of Charleston, W. Va. (foot-
ball); Dick Singeltary of Clearwater,
Fla. (golf); Ned Coslett of Swarthmore,
Pa. and Jay Meriwether of Front
Royal (lacrosse); Hugh Guill of
Washington, D. C. and = Martin
Schmidt of Louisville, Ky. (rifle);
John Yow of Marietta, Ga. and Doug
Clarke of Houston, Tex. (soccer);
Roger Martin of Jacksonville, Fla. and
Scott McElroy of Ann Arbor, Mich.
(swimming); Tom McJunkin (tennis);
Mike Neer of Alexandria and Drew
Thomas of Orlando, Fla. (track); and
Dave Higgins of Fayetteville, W. Va.,
Frank Rasberry of Kinston, N. C., and
Danny Webster of Memphis, Tenn.
(wrestling).

All are rising seniors, except Wilber
and Webster, who will be juniors.

20: DEVELOPMENT

Deferred Gifts Program is Strengthened

A more systematic handling of the
University’s Deferred Gifts Program
has been authorized by the Board of
‘Trustees.

This means that the University is
now able to provide alumni and
friends professionally prepared ma-
terials relating to wills and estate
planning; gift, income, and _ estate
taxes; life income agreements; the
donative sale, and many other aspects
of deferred giving.

Director of Development Farris
Hotchkiss said: “The inclusion of this
comparatively new field in Washing-
ton and Lee’s voluntary giving pro-
gram offers the alumnus or friend a
wonderful opportunity to secure in-
formation that could make a gift far
more valuable both to the University
and to the donor.”

He explained that there are many
considerations connected with taxes
and estate planning that can be ex-
plored through this University service.
Those persons who will be consult-
ing with alumni and friends about
deferred gifts will have received spe-
cial training in this special area of
donations. Often the materials avail-
able through the University and the
personnel trained in this field can be
helpful to a donor’s lawyer, and in
most cases the University would be
brought into the picture solely in an
advisory role.

The three areas of greatest activity
in the deferred giving field—and prob-
ably those of greatest interest to W&L
alumni and friends—are:

1. The Life Income Agreement—
This method may take several forms,

but its purpose is to allow a donor to
give the University certain assets and
at the same time retain a life income
for himself. This results in several
possible benefits: (a) The gift is de-
ductible immediately as a charitable
contribution. (b) Income for the life
of the donor is not lost and in many
cases is increased. (c) If the assets
given to Washington and Lee are ap-
preciated in value, capital gains taxes
are avoided entirely. (d) Professional
investment management of the assets
is assumed by the University. (e) The
donor’s wishes are assured in the pres-
ent rather than the future. (f) Certain
beneficial estate planning objectives
are achieved.

2. Charitable Provision by Will—
This is simply the making of a pro-
vision in one’s will in favor of Wash-
ington and Lee. The purpose of the
provision may be either designated or
not, depending on the wishes of the
donor. The University is now pre-
pared to offer assistance to persons in
planning a provision by will and to
help preserve and protect the estate.
Most important is the opportunity to
explore the many uses of a charitable
provision by will with a donor during
his lifetime.

3. The Donative Sale—This is an
opportunity for a donor to give
appreciated assets to the University,
but with the donor's retention of the
capital or original cost of the assets.
A full charitable deduction is taken
for the appreciated portion of the
assets, and capital gains taxes are
avoided altogether.

Future issues of the Alumnus will

present more complete explanations
of these and other aspects of making
deferred gifts. Persons wanting more
detailed information now _ should
write the Director of Development.
“The deferred giving field has
proved to be a significant resource for
many of the country’s fine univer-
sities,” Director of Development
Hotchkiss said. “Because it allows a
donor to retain income, or gain par-
ticularly advantageous tax _ treat-
ment—and in most instances both—it
is a very important method of build-
ing critically needed endowment

funds.

 

What can te done, with eh —-

op cad ee pa

i
Ce

 

Chapter
News

LOUISVILLE

President and Mrs. Huntley were
guests of honor at a meeting of the
Louisville chapter on March 14 at the
Pendennis Club. The Huntleys were
taken on a tour of the city before the
dinner meeting, which was attended
by alumni from many parts of Ken-
tucy. A. R. Boden, Jr., 52, was master
of ceremonies, and John S. Moremen,
57, made the introductions. Alumni
Secretary and Mrs. Washburn accom-
panied the Huntleys. President Hunt-
ley thanked the chapter for its help in
encouraging a large number of stu-
dents from Louisville to come _ to
Washington and Lee.

SOUTHERN OHIO

Alumni from a wide area of South-
ern Ohio honored President and Mrs.
Huntley at a_reception-dinner on
March 15 at the Cincinnati Country
Club. Stanley A. Hooker, Jr., ’39,
chapter president, presided. Guests in-
cluded Alumni Secretary and Mrs.
Washburn, Patrick T. Boardman,
headmaster of the Cincinnati Country
Day School, and his wife, and the
parents of many W&L students. Dr.
James Priest of Dayton, a former
president of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Association, and Mrs. Priest
were recognized for admissions work
that led to the acceptance of seven
new Dayton students for the 1969
freshman class. Robert W. Hilton and
Bob Wersel received special thanks
for arranging the meeting.

PHILADELPHIA

The Locust Club was the setting of
the Philadelphia chapter's reception-
dinner on March 21 in honor of Presi-
dent and Mrs. Huntley. Alumni Sec-
retary and Mrs. Washburn were also
guests. Arthur Blank, II, ‘60, chapter
president, arranged a stag luncheon
for the President, while Mrs. Francis
Plowman took the women on a tour
of the city. At the dinner, Blank re-
viewed the chapter’s program, includ-
ing plans for a visit by the W&L Glee

 

 

 

 

William S. Burns, ’38, and Willis M. Ball,
40, at Jacksonville meeting.

Club, and introduced President Hunt-
ley, who spoke briefly on the status
and plans of the University. After a
short question and answer session, Art
Blank was given a standing ovation of
thanks for arranging the meeting.

JACKSONVILLE

President and Mrs. Huntley escaped
wintry weather on a March 28 visit
with the Jacksonville chapter. They
were accompanied by Director of De-
velopment and Mrs. Farris Hotchkiss
and Alumni Secretary and Mrs. Wash-
burn. President Huntley spoke on
University affairs at a reception-din-

 

ALUMNI-21

ner at the Florida Yacht Club. At-
tending were alumni from as far away
as Orlando. Charles E. Commander,
III, 62, chapter president, made the
arrangements for the meeting, and
special recognition was extended to
Archie Jenkins, 58, and Mrs. Jenkins
for their assistance.

FLORIDA WEST COAST

President and Mrs. Huntley were
treated to a trip through the An-
heuser-Busch brewery and the Busch
Gardens in Tampa during their visit
with the Florida West Coast chapter
on March gg. Others in the University
party were Director of Development
and Mrs. Farris Hotchkiss and Alumni
Secretary and Mrs. Washburn. Charles
P. Lykes, ’39, entertained the Presi-
dent at a stag luncheon and that eve-
ning a cocktail party and dinner were
held at the University Club of ‘Tampa.
J. Thomas ‘Touchton, ‘60, chapter
president, introduced the _ guests,
among whom were college presidents
and high school principals in ‘Tampa.
President Huntley emphasized the im-
portant role alumni play in the life of
W&L and reviewed University affairs.
Alumni Secretary Washburn cited the
long history of the chapter and pre-
sented President Touchton with an
official certificate of chapter member-
ship in the alumni association. Touch-
ton received an ovation for arrang-
ing the meeting.

fd

~ ee ee ee en

President Huntley speaks at Florida West Coast meeting.

22, ALUMN!

APPALACHIAN

Dean and Mrs. E. C. Atwood were
guests of honor at a banquet meeting
of the Appalachian chapter on April
11 at the Ridgefield Country Club in
Kingsport, Tenn. William S. Todd,
chapter president, and Mrs. Todd
held a reception at their home before
the dinner. Alumni Secretary Wash-
burn accompanied the Atwoods.
Among the guests also were John M.
Jones of Greeneville, Tenn., a mem-
ber of the Alumni Board of Directors,
and Mrs. Jones. Dean Atwood report-
ed on student attitudes, aims, and
ambitions as they relate to Washing-
ton and Lee and answered questions
from the floor. The following new
officers were elected: Nelson W.
Burris, '26, of Johnson City, president;

E. P. Litton, Jr., 60, of Bristol, James.

W. Harman, Jr., ’44, of Tazewell, and
Ben N. Brown, Jr., '46, of Johnson
City, vice presidents; and W. Hanes
Lancaster, Jr., '46. of Johnson City,
secretary.

CHARLOTTE

President and Mrs. Huntley, ac-
companied by Alumni Secretary and
Mrs. Washburn, were guests of the
Charlotte chapter on April 14 at a
well-attended meeting at the Charlotte
City Club. James J. White, ’51, out-
going chapter president, presided at
the dinner following a cocktail party.
Many parents of students and friends
of the University joined alumni in
greeting President Huntley, who re-
ported on the status of the University.
William A. Towler, ILI, ’58, was
elected the new chapter president.
Jack Crist, 45, a member of the
Alumni Board of Directors, received
special thanks for helping with the
arrangements. Crist held a stag lunch-
eon the next day for President Hunt-
ley. The guests included Dr. John
Smylie, president of Queens College,
and several Charlotte businessmen
representing Davidson College and
several other private colleges in North
Carolina.

PIEDMONT

The Piedmont chapter held a meet-
ing in honor of President and Mrs.
Huntley on April 15 at the Twin City
Club in Winston-Salem, N. C., afford-

 

Alumni at Charlotte are attentive to the President’s words.

ing the President a kind of homecom-
ing. It was the first time President
Huntley had had an opportunity to
address alumni in his hometown since
becoming head of the University. At-
tending the dinner and receiving a
warm welcome was President Hunt-
ley’s mother, Mrs. B. F. Huntley. Gil
Bocetti, '54, outgoing chapter presi-
dent, presided at the cocktail party
and dinner and praised Bob Bertini,
'45, Who made the arrangements.
After President Huntley’s talk, the
chapter elected Fred L. Heina, ’58, of
Winston-Salem new president of the
chapter.

NEW YORK

Dean of the School of Law Roy L.
Steinheimer and Mrs. Steinheimer
were special guests of the New York
chapter at a semi-black-tie dinner on
April 18 at the Essex House Hotel.
Dean Steinheimer, in his talk, dis-
cussed the legal aspects of campus
unrest afflicting many of the nation’s
colleges and universities at that time.
Richard R. Warren, ‘57, chapter
president, presided and _ introduced
Dean Steinheimer. Emmett Poin-
dexter, ‘20, presented a_ treasurer’s
report, and Richard H. Turrell, ’49, a
member of the Alumni Board of Di-
rectors, explained the plan under
which alumni nominate a candidate
for membership on the University
Board of Trustees.

PALMETTO

The Palmetto chapter honored
President and Mrs. Huntley at a re-
ception-dinner on May 2g at the
Spring Valley Country Club in
Columbia, S.C. A special part of the
visit was a tour of the Capitol, con-
ducted by Philip Grose, Jr., admini-
Strative assistant to Gov. Robert E.
McNair of South Carolina. William
M. Bowen, 63, of Beaufort, S. C.,
presided at the dinner at which Presi-
dent Huntley reported on the status
of the University. The meeting ad-
journed with the singing of the
“Swing,” led by President Huntley
and Wilson Lear, ’51.

S. C. PIEDMONT

The first official meeting of alumni
of the Anderson-Greenville-Spartan-
burg area was held May 25 at the
Greenville Country Club, with Presi-
dent and Mrs. Huntley as guests of
honor. A spirited group of alumni
and their wives from a wide area at-
tended the reception-dinner. — Ellis
Drew, ‘56, presided in the absence of
Alvin Fleishman, ’41, chapter _presi-
dent. Dewey Oxner, ’56, introduced
President Huntley, who reported on
the affairs of the University. It was re-
ported that the spirit and gaiety of
the Washington and Lee group out-
did that of a combined group of
Harvard, Princeton, and Yale alumni
meeting in an adjoining room.

o~

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

President and Mrs. Huntley, ac-
companied by Alumni Secretary and
Mrs. Washburn, met with the North-
ern California chapter on June 18 at
a reception-dinner at the World Trade
Club in San Francisco. It was the
President's first visit to California
since becoming head of the University
and also the first for Mrs. Huntley
and Mrs. Washburn. The meeting was
preceded by a tour of the Bay Area
arranged by John A. Williamson, II,
‘53, chapter president. President
Huntley’s report on the University
was followed by a searching question
and answer period. Williamson thank-
ed Paul Speckman, ’57, and Ed W.
Thomas, '52, for helping make the
arrangements. The meeting ended
with a rousing rendition of the
“Swing,” providing evidence that dis-
tance from campus does not dull W&L
enthusiasm.

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

The Southern California chapter
staged a “Hollywood” style welcome
for President and Mrs. Huntley and
Mr. and Mrs. Washburn. Touches of
a Metro Goldwyn Mayer extravaganza
marked the reception-dinner on June
ig at The Saddleback Inn in Nor-
walk. A large group of alumni heard
the President’s report on the Uni-
versity and engaged him in a lively
question-and-answer session. Frank
McCormick, ’53, of Los Angeles,
chapter president, presided. He was
assisted by Rogers M. Cox, ’39, of
Hemet, vice president, and Merv
Luria, ’40, a member of the chapter’s
board of directors. A special welcome
was extended to Mr. and Mrs. Bob
Merrill of Rolling Hills, whose son,
Bill, will be a freshman at Washing-
ton and Lee this fall. The next day,
the Huntleys and Washburns were
treated to a tour of Disneyland.

ARKANSAS

President and Mrs. Huntley were
greeted by one of the largest attend-
ances on record at a meeting of the
Arkansas chapter on June 24 at the
Little Rock Country Club. The pro-
gram included a buffet dinner pre-
ceded by a cocktail party. Alumni
Secretary and Mrs. Washburn and

ALUMINIZ23

 

With President and Mrs. Huntley at Northern California meeting are Edward W. Thomas,
52, Mrs. Thomas, John A. Williams, ’53, and Paul R. Speckman, Jr., ’57.

Director of Development _ Farris
Hotchkiss were also guests. Richard
C. Butler, Jr., '59, chapter president,

was master of ceremonies. Several
current W&L students from Arkansas
were recognized, and the chapter

greeted six Little Rock freshmen and
one Pine Bluff freshman and _ their
parents. Recognized also were Digby

West, '26, of Berryville and Beverly
Lambert, '31, of West Memphis, who
traveled long distances to attend the
meeting. In his remarks, President
Huntley praised the many Arkansas
students who occupy positions of
leadership on the campus. The chap-
ter extended special thanks to Butler
for making the arrangements.

 

Chapter Correspondents

Appalachian—Nelson W. Burris, '26, 307 E.
olston, Johnson City, Tenn. 37601
Arkansas—Richard C. Butler, III, ’59, 36 River
Ridge Rd., Little Rock, Ark. 72207
Atlanta—Richard A. Denny, Jr., 52, 434 Trust
Co. of occas Bldg., Atlanta, Ga. 30303
Augusta-Rockingham—Robert L. Rhea, '’58,
619 Fraser Lane, Staunton, Va. 24401
Baltimore—Allan J. Mead, '58, 4200 Somerset
Place, Baltimore, Md. 21210
Birmingham—John V. Coe, '25, 3421 Springhill
Road, Birmingham, Ala. 35223
Charleston, West Virginia—William T. W.
Brotherton, Jr., °47, 1020 Kanawha Valley
Building, Charleston, W. Va. 25301
Charlotte—William A. Towler III, '58, 3027
Northampton Dr., Charlotte, N. C. 28210
Chattanooga—Wesley G. Brown, ‘51, Penn

Mutual Life Ins. Co., Lobby Maclellan
Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402
Chicago—William

Hillier, '38, 321 West

Lincoln Avenue, Wheaton, IIl. 60187

Cleveland—Peter M. Weimer, '63, c/o The W.
F, Ryan Corp., 3940 Euclid Ave., Cleveland,
Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—James L. Rimler, ’31, 20

Court Street, Frederick, Md. 21701

Danville—T. Ryland Dodson, '46, 513 Masonic
Building, Danville, Va. 24541

Florida West Coast—J. Thomas Touchton, ’60,
3701 Bayshore Blvd., Tampa, Florida 33611

Gulf Stream—J. Alan Cross, Jr., '51, 9700
Dominican Drive, Cutler Ridge, Miami,
Florida 33157

Houston—W. Temple Webber, Jr., ‘54, Box
2529, Houston, Texas 77001

Jacksonville—Charles E. Commander, III, ’62,
3839 Ortega Blvd., Jacksonville, Fla. 32210

Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, '49, 814 Westover
Road, Kansas City, Mo. 64113

Louisville—A. R. Boden, Jr., '52, 3913 Druid
Hill Road, Louisville, Ky, 40207

Lynchburg—William V. Giles, Jr., ’61, Moore
& Giles, P. O. Box 56, Lynchburg, Va. 24505

Mid-South—Clinton M. a "59, 4052 Goodlet
Cove, Memphis, Tenn. 38111

Mobile—G. Sage Lyons, '58, Lyons, -i &
Cook, 517 First National Bank ldg..
Mobile, Ala. 36602

New Orleans—Dudley D. Flanders, '56, 908
National Bank of Commerce Bldg., New
Orleans, La. 70112

New River-Greenbrier—Thomas A. Myles, ‘16,
Box 126, Fayetteville, W. Va. 25840

New York— Richard R. Warren, ’'57, 135
Brewster Road, Scarsdale, N. Y. 10583

Norfolk—Grover C. Outland, Jr., ‘'51, 5915

Studeley Ave., Norfolk, Va. 23508

North Texas—Richard D. Haynes, ‘58, 2921
LTV Tower, Dallas, Texas 75201

Northern California—John A. Williamson, II,
53, 3147 Stevens Creek Blvd., Santa Clara,
Calif. 95050

Northern Louisiana—M. Alton Evans, Jr., '63,
P. O. Box 639, Shreveport, La. 71102

Palm Beach-Ft. Lauderdale—Hugh S. Glick-
stein, '53, 2138 Hollywood Blvd., Hollywood,
Fla. 33020

Palmetto—William M. Bowen, '63, Dowling,
Se ne. Sanders and Dukes, Beaufort,
S. C. 29902

Peninsula—Daniel W, Wilkinson, Jr., '38, Box
257, Newport News, Va. 23607

Pensacola—Charles C. Sherrill, 60, 1730 North
Barcelona St., Pensacola, Fla. 32501

Philadelphia—Arthur Blank, II, '60, Reynolds
Co., 1296 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

19102
Piedmont—Fred L. Heina, ‘58, 514 Walter
Court, Winston Salem, N. C. 27103
Pittsburgh—John E,. Perry, '38, 1330 Terrace
Drive, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15228
Richmond—William A. Abeloff, ‘57, Room
1128, Ross Bldg., Richmond, Va. 23219
Roanoke—William J, Lemon, '57, 2201 Grandin
Road, S. W., Roanoke, Va. 24015
Rockbridge—Robert W. H. Mish, Jr., ‘°46,
- — Washington Street, Lexington, Va.
44
San Antonio Texas—Brentano C. Harnisch, ‘39,
231 Burr Road, San Antonio, Texas 78209
St. Louis—Bruce E. Bussen, ‘56, 5000 Bussen
Road, St, Louis, Mo. 63129
60, P. O. Box

Savannah River—Tudor Hall,
116, Beech Isiand, S. C. 29842
South Carolina Piedmont—Alvin T. Fleish-
mee, ’41, P. O. Drawer 1049, Anderson, S. C.
Southern California—Frank A. McCormick.
*53, 2026 North Olive, Santa Ana., Calif. 92706
A. Hooker, Jr., ’39,
rive, Cincinnati, Ohio

Southern Ohio—Stanle
1185 Beverly Hills
45226

Tulsa—Robert S. Doenges, '62, 2112 E. 22nd
Place, Tulsa, Okla. 74114

Upper Potomac—aAlbert D. Darby, Jr., '43, 507
Gamberiand St., Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington, D. C.—Donald W. Sigmund, '59,
— Lane, Rockville, Maryland

West Texas—Robert G. Brown, '49, 402 First
National Bank Bldg., Midland, Texas 79701

Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, '52, 100 Cam-
bridge Drive, Wilmington, Del. 19803

QA CLASS NOES

CLASS NOTES

 

\

 

‘THE

WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ‘41.

Price: $37.00 f.o.b.
Gardner, Massachusetts
(Effective June 1, 1969)

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
NOTICE: Delivery of orders in-
tended for Christmas cannot be

guaranteed if received after No-
vember 1.

 

 

 

1914

At commencement ceremonies on June 8,
Hampden-Sydney College awarded Judge
ARCHIBALD C. BUCHANAN of Tazewell, Va.,
the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws. Judge
Buchanan has sat on the Supreme Court
of Appeals of Virginia since 1946. A former
Tazewell mayor, he is an elder and trustee
of the Tazewell Presbyterian Church and is
a member of the Tazewell County and
American Bar Associations.

1928

WILLIAM T. OWEN, vice president, secretary
and treasurer of the New York Telephone
Co,. retired in July from the telephone busi-
ness after 41 years of service. During the first
10 years of his association with the com-
pany he held various positions in the fi-
nancial department. He was assigned to the
staff of the Bell Telephone Exhibit at the
New York World’s Fair in 1939 and became
an assistant director there in 1940. In 1958
he was appointed treasurer of the company
and assumed his present position in 1967.
Owen is a director of the Bank of Commerce
in New York, and of the New York Business
Development Corp., and a member of the
New York Chamber of Commerce.

Dr. G. WaALpo DUNNINGTON, professor of
German at Northwestern State College in
Louisiana, has established a museum at the
college in honor of Carl Fredrich Gauss.
Gauss was a German mathematician and
scientist who is frequently called the founder
of modern mathematics. Dr. Dunnington,
who has been collecting rare and valuable
material on the mathematician for many
years, is considered an authority on Gauss.
Dunnington has been at Northwestern since
1946. He is a member of many learned, pa-
triotic, and professional organizations.

1933

The appointment of Epwin H. BACON as
associate manager of the St. Louis office for
Marsh and McLennan was announced re-
cently. Bacon has been with the company in
St. Louis since 1941. He was elected vice-
president of Marsh and McLennan, Inc.
(Missouri) in 1952 and in 1963 was appointed
a director of the company. In addition to
serving as associate manager of the St. Louis
office, he will continue to head the produc-
tion activities of the office.

1934

The industrial and biochemical department
of E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co. announces
that JosepH C. MULLER, JR., has been named
director of manufacturing. Muller joined du-
Pont in 1934 at the Grasselli, N. J., plant and
has worked in various capacities there and
in Wilmington, Del. For 10 years, he was
with the East Chicago, Ind. plant. In 1960,
Muller was appointed production manager
in Wilmington, the position he held prior to
his recent promotion.

1935

ALLEN M. HARRELSON, JR., has recently been

elected executive vice president—finance of
the Bendix Corp., with offices in Southfield,
Mich., a suburb of Detroit. Harrelson is also
president of the newly created Bendix Inter-
national Finance Co.

1938

James A. INGALLS is employed as an Air Force
civilian in purchasing management at Ham-
som Field in Bedford, Mass.

194]

San Antonio real estate executive, RALPH
Lene, reigned as King Antonio XLVII over
the city’s Fiesta Week in late April. The
event is sponsored by the patriotic and civic
organization known as the Texas Cavaliers,
established in 1926. Among the stated pur-
poses of the organization are “to honor the
memory of the matchless heroes who fell at
the Alamo...to keep the people mindful
of the glorious history of Texas...to en-
courage interest in horsemanship and other
attributes of Texas tradition.” One of the
projects to carry out these purposes is the
Fiesta Week. The monarch participated in
virtually every civic and social event and,
in addition, visited schools, hospitals, and
orphanages. Lehr has served as president of
the San Antonio Board of Realtors and in
1959 was named “Realtor of the Year.”
Among his civic and professional activities,
Lehr is acting chairman of the San Antonio
Society for Crippled Children and Adults.

On Friday, May 9, Emit RAssSMAN, a Midland,
Tex., attorney and member of Washington
and Lee’s Alumni Board of Directors, com-
pleted his two-year tenure as president of
the Board of Regents, State Senior Colleges
(Texas). There are seven senior colleges in
the system. Rassman will remain on the
Board until 1973. After a stint as attorney
for the Texas General Land office, Rassman
moved to Midland in 1948. He has played
a role in myriad community affairs in West
Texas and in 1951 was named one of the
Jaycee’s Five Outstanding Texans.

 

William T. Owen, ’28

HERBERT M. Woopwarp, former executive
vice president of Southeastern Financial
Corp., has joined Search & Placement As-
sociates, Ltd., in Charlotte, N.C. The firm
provides consulting services to companies
seeking executive and technical specialists at
the top and middle management levels.
Woodward is a former president of the Char-
lotte Textile Club, and he currently serves
as a trustee of Charlotte County Day School.

1943

Dr. HAVEN W. MANKIN of Oklahoma City has
been named president-elect of the Okla-
homa State Radiological Society.

1944

R. Bruce QuaAyLe, former director of public
relations of Sinclair Oil Corp., has been
named manager of community .services of
the Atlantic Richfield Co. with headquarters
in New York City. A former newspaper man,
Quayle joined Sinclair in 1952 as assistant
director of public relations, and was named
director in 1967, holding that post until last
March when Sinclair was merged into Atlan-
tic Richfield.

1945

One of the top amateur golf players in North
Carolina, JACK Crist, was the 1969 chair-
man of the Kemper Open Tournament in
Charlotte, N.C. Crist, engaged in the real
estate investment business, was named chair-
man in December 1968. Crist has had much
experience in putting on sports events. serv-
ing a major role in several basketball tourna-

7 1946

Having recently been editor of publications
for Reynolds Metals Co., JosepH N. MOFFATT
has just been named regional public rela-
tions manager for the company in Los
Angeles. In his new assignment, Moffatt is
responsible for corporate public relations
activities in an 11 state area on the West
Coast. He joined Reynolds in 1965 as public
relations manager for consumer and _ packag-

 

Ralph Lehr, ’41

Herbert M. Woodward, ’41

ing markets, and later was in charge of pub-
lic relations for the company’s industrial

market.
1949

WILLIAM D. BAIN, JR., president of Moreland
Chemical Co. and chairman of the Spartan-
burg City School Board, has been elected to
the board of trustees of Converse College in
Spartanburg, S. C. Bain joined Moreland
Chemical Co. in 1950 and was named presi-
dent in 1965. He is currently chairman of
the board of Affiliated Chemical Distributors,
a nationwide group of non-competitve chemi-
cal distributors.

Horace Smiru, III, has joined Scott & String-
fellow, a Richmond investment banking and
brokerage firm. Prior to joining the firm,
Smith had been vice president and _ sales
manager of Valentine Pulp and Paper Com-
pany of Lockport, La., and he had also been
associated with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
and Smith.

After completing two years in the office of
the Army Chief of Staff in Washington, Col.
PAuL J. B. Murpny, JR., was recently deco-
rated with the Legion of Merit. He was as-
signed in July to command the grd Brigade
of the end Infantry Division in Korea. Col.
Murphy expects to retire in 1970.

1950

F. ALDEN Murray, JR., a Washington, D. C.,
realtor, has opened a firm, Alden, Inc., to
conduct a commercial real estate sales and
mortgage brokerage, development and ap-
praisal business in the Washington area.
Murray began his real estate career with H.
G. Smithy Co. He is a member of the Wash-
ington Board of Realtors and is currently
serving on the Men’s Advisory Board of the
Florence Crittenton Home in Washington.

The F.M.C. Corp., a division of American
Viscose, has named ANDREW J. GALLAGHER
director of the film distribution department
in film operations. Gallagher joined Ameri-
can Viscose in 1955 and has held positions
in industrial engineering and manufactur-

R. Bruce Quayle, ’44

CLASS NOTES :25

ing. Since October, 1967, he has been located
in Philadelphia as distribution operations
manager for film operations.

Joseru H. Reese, JR., president of Reese &
Co., Inc. of Philadelphia, Pa., a life and
health insurance firm and employee benefit
plan consultants, has been elected to the
Young Presidents’ Organization, Inc. (YPO).
The educational organization has an inter-
national membership of 2,300 young, suc-
cessful chief executives who have become
presidents of sizable companies before the
age of 40. Members represent more than go
countries.

195]
BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WiLson H. LEAR, a

daughter, Jennifer Anne, March 26, 1969.
The family lives in Columbia, S.C.

One of the principals in a new organization,
the H. B. Light Engraving Inc., in Rochester,
N.Y., is WiLtiAM P. Rose. The new com-
pany is a holding company which will own
and operate small businesses. It is a manage-
ment consultant firm that will offer general
business administration, organization and
control counselling. Rose went to Rochester
in 1954 and for 15 years was employed by the
Rochester Telephone Corp. in many _ posi-
tions of operating and staff administration.

ANDREW W. GOTTSCHALL, JR., regional direc-
tor of the National Conference of Christians
and Jews since 1963 has resigned to become
effective Sept., 1969, an associate professor
of sociology at Guilford College in Greens-
boro, N.C.

BARTON. MACDONALD has moved to St. Louis,
Mo., where he has been appointed director
of commercial development at the Monsanto
Chemical Company’s home office.

Guy B. HAMMoNbD served as president of the
Southeastern Region of the American Acad-
emy of Religion for 1968-69 and delivered
the presidential address at the annual meet-
ing held in March at the University of South
Carolina in Columbia.

 

Horace Smith, Ill, ’49

46: CLASS NOTES

1953

Ep. A. Hiestanb, formerly with the Johnny
Carson TV Show, has joined the new David
Frost show. He, along with J. FreLper Cook,
'46, was a judge of the Emmy Awards.

H. F. VAN Deventer, III, has been named
manager of compensation of Celanese Corp.,
with headquarters in New York City. Joining
Celanese in 1961 in the industrial relations
department of the Rock Hill, S.C., fibers
plant, Van Deventer later served as manager
of industrial relations at the plastics pipe
plant in Columbus, Ohio, and at the com-
pany headquarters in Newark.

1954

In November, 1968, PATRicK D. SULLIVAN, be-
came the youngest person ever elected to the
Indiana Court of Appeals. He assumed his
new position on the eight-man Court in Janu-
ary, 1969, after having served for four years
on a civil trial bench.

1955

In June Dr. WATsoNn A. Bowes, JR., returned
to full-time work as a faculty member of
the University of Colorado Medical Center.
He is assistant professor of obstetrics and
gynecology.

The First National City Bank of New York
has named JOHN M. WALBRIDGE a vice presi-
dent. Walbridge has been with the bank
since 1956 and was named assistant vice
president in 1963.

1956

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Rupert CHISHOLM, a
son, Rupert F. Chisholm, III, on March 13,
1969. The family lives in Overijse, Belgium,
where Rupert is personnel policy advisor for
Esso Chemical, S. A.

J. Ropert McHenry, who in September,
1964 became assistant professor of physical
education, basketball coach, and coach of
lacrosse at Lebanon Valley College, has re-

 

The Speakers Two

 

Ray S. Smith, Jr., ’50, (left) of Hot
Springs has been elected to succeed
Hayes C. McClerkin, ’53, (right) as
Speaker of the Arkansas General As-
sembly. McClerkin’s term expires in
1971. Another Arkansas legislator is
Thomas E. Sparks, ’35, of Fordyce.

 

 

 

signed to become head lacrosse coach and
assistant basketball coach at Yale University.
The effective date is Sept. 1, 1969. Prior to
his position at Lebanon Valley College, Mc-
Henry had been an instructor in physical
education and head coach of both basket-
ball and lacrosse at Washington and Lee

since 1958.
1957

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Ropert K. HALPER, a
daughter, Susan Wendy, on May 1, 1969.
The young lady joins a brother, and the
family lives in Ramsey, N. J.

H. MERRILL PLAtsTep, III, has been elected
to the board of directors of Morton G. Thal-

himer, Inc., Realtors, Richmond, Va. Plaisted
joined the firm in 1960. He specializes in
commercial and industrial leasing and sales
and is assistant secretary and treasurer of
the company. He is a member of the Inter-
national Council of Shopping Centers, the
National Institute of Real Estate Brokers,
and serves on the board of the Robert E. Lee
Council of the Boy Scouts of America, Big
Brothers of Richmond, Inc., and the Rich-
mond Area Heart Association.

1958
BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS C, FRIEDMAN,

a second son, Andrew Benjamin, on April 21,
1969, in Shaker Heights, Ohio.

GARY McPuHerson, former head _ basketball
coach at VMI, has resigned to become assis-
tant basketball coach under the new head
coach, Sonny Moran, at the University of
West Virginia. He will leave a host of
friends in Lexington and, indeed, in Virginia.

1960

A vice president of the Dead River Co.,
CHRISTOPHER HutTcHiIns of Bangor, Me., has
been named to the planning committee of
the Institute for Maine Industry at Colby
College. Hutchins is a director of the Dead
River Co. as well as the Merrill Trust Co.,
Sugarloaf Mountain Corp. and the New
England Council. He is a trustee of Hudson
College and a governor of the Penobscot
Valley Country Club.

F. JOHN HERRMANN was recently appointed
resident manager of Walston & Co.’s Pitts-
burgh Office. For the past three years Jack
has been in the firm’s Erie, Pa., office where
he was an account executive.

196]

BORN: The REVEREND and Mrs. J. MALCOLM
BROWNLEE, JR., a son, Hale Perry, on Febru-
ary 25, 1969. Malcolm is the minister to the
Hull Memorial Presbyterian Church, Hazard,
Ky.

 

F. Alden Murray, ’50

Patrick D. Sullivan, ’54

John M. Walbridge, ’55

H. Merrill Plaisted, III, ’57

The Episcopal Church Foundation has made
a fellowship grant to the Rev. G. PALMER
PARDINGTON, III, for graduate study. He cur-
rently is continuing work toward his doc-
torate in philosophy of religion at Graduate
Theological Union and the University of
California, Berkley, in preparation for a
teaching career at the seminary or university
level. Pardington was chaplain to Episcopal
students at Southeastern Louisiana College
and curate at Grace Memorial Parish, both
in Hammond, La., before enrolling for ad-
vance studies.

Jack H. Breap, JRr., has been appointed gen-
eral manager for directional advertising ser-
vices in the State of Texas. He is still serving
as general manager of EBSCo Subscription
Services in the Southwest. Both of the above
are divisions of EBSCo Industries, Inc. in

Birmingham, Ala. Jack lives in Dallas.

1962
MARRIED: Epwarp P. (NED) Hosss and Gail
Miller of New Canaan, Conn., were married
May 10, 1969. Among the groomsmen were
Mike Monier, ‘62, George Cruger, ‘62, and
Bill Wheeler, 62.

Dr. MICHAEL J. SPALDING is a surgeon at the
U. S. Naval Hospital in Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.

E. WARREN MILLs, a C.P.A., is controller for
Hugo P. Keller, Inc., in New York City.
The company has an office in Switzerland
and is a leading manufacturer of industrial
jewels and precision metal parts.

JAmes H. Starkey, III, a Mitchellville, Md.,

CLASS NOTES .27

resident, has been given an award for “sus-
tained above-average performance” by the
U. S. Department of Agriculture. Starkey was
cited: “For contributing to the expansion of
U. S. agricultural foreign trade opportunities
through exceptionally high-level perform-
ance in international trade negotiations and
related trade policy activities.”

THORNS CRAVEN of Durham, N.C., has ac-
cepted a position as staff attorney in the
Legal Aid Society of Forsyth County. He and
his wife, Perry, will be moving to Winston-
Salem, N.C., in September.

1963

MARRIED: C. RicHARD BRAnpt, II, and
Bonnie Acker were married on Aug. 17,
1968, in Mechanicsburg, Pa. They are now
living in West Chester, Pa.

 

The story in the Miami Herald
of June 1 bore a Tallahassee
dateline and began this way:
“The courtly old gentleman
from Miami can’t make it up
here to address the Florida Sen-
ate. Not that he wouldn’t enjoy
it. But Frederick M. Hudson
accepts the reality he is not as
chipper as he used to be. He
is 98.”

Fred Hudson received his B.A.
from Washington and Lee in
i8g0 and his law degree in
1892. He is one of the Univer-
sity’s oldest living alumni. But
he still goes daily to his law
office where, as he puts it, he di-
vides his activities “between
probate practice, professionally,
and stock-market ‘practice,’ per-
sonally.”’

He was invited to address the
Florida Senate because he was
president of that body in 1909—
a fact that many Florida _poli-
ticlans seem to have forgotten
until the Secretary of the Senate
“discovered” it while compiling
historical data on the Florida
Legislature. The idea was to cor-
rect a long-standing oversight
and honor Florida’s oldest living
former senator.

Fred Hudson sent his regrets
in a letter that the Miami
Herald reporter called a ‘‘master-
piece.” The letter was duly
placed in the Senate journal. It
said:

Dear Mr. Secretary:

This letter, my mind and my

tongue almost refuse to dictate

 

‘Grow Old Along
With Me...

 

Frederick M. Hudson, ’90

but I cannot ignore the truth.

By the generous invitation of
the illustrious Senate of my State
I am permitted to appear and
receive the bestowal of an un-
usual and unmerited honor
which gratitude impels me to
accept but it for me alone to
weigh against gratitude the wis-
dom of common sense.

‘Today at home with part-time
at the office, Tallahassee appears
farther away than it once did
and the complications of travel
are more perceptible.

Plain reason and the state of
my health, still mildly uncertain,
call me to remain at home or
nearby and I must regretfully
obey that call.

Renouncing my earlier assur-
ance, I now offer advice, quot-
ing the poet Browning, “Grow
old along with me.”

Long ago when crossing streets
and younger friends clung to my
elbows I wondered why they
needed my help. I learned later.

When others must read or
write for you, you are growing
old along with me.

When strangers stop on the
street offering to help you from
your car, you will have grown
old along with me.

But the poet also wrote, “The
best is yet to be.”

For those who grow old along
with me it is my earnest hope
and prayer that “The best is yet
to be.”

Sincerely yours,
Fk. M. Hudson

 

 

49;CLASS NOTES

After his discharge from the U. S. Air Force
in October, 1968, as a captain, JOHN G. S.
Wiccins is teaching English and history and
coaching lacrosse and football at Fay School
in Southboro, Mass.

Bruce H. RoBERsON has returned from Viet-
nam and is now associated with the Tampa
(Fla.) office of the law firm of Holland and
Knight.

Greorce W. Harvey, Jr., has moved to
Tampa, Fla., where he is an account execu-
tive for WFLA-TV. He was previously with
Young & Rubicam Advertising for five years,
first in New York and then in San Francisco
as media supervisor, handling the Chrysler/
Plymouth Dealer Association and American

Bakery accounts.
1964

MARRIED: JOuN Y. PEARSON JR. and Ellen
Ryan were married Feb. 24, 1969. Pearson
was released from active duty with the U.S.
Navy in July, 1968, and is now attending
law school at the University of Virginia.

In August, 1968, CHARLEs C. FLIPPEN JR
received his Ph.D. degree in mass com-
munications research from the University of
North Carolina. He is an assistant professor
of journalism at the University of Maryland.

GreorGE KeitH TAYLOR spent the last four
years studying in Germany and _ working
with pipe organ builders in order to be-
come an organ builder. He is now back in
the States, living in Amelia, Va.

BARRY W. KERCHNER is assistant district
attorney for Montgomery County, Pa.

Joun F. Lackey graduated from the Uni-
versity of Kentucky Law School in 1967 and
received the Order of the Coif. The follow-
ing year he worked as administrative assistant
to the president of Alice Lloyd College in
Pippa Passes, Ky. He attended Yale Law
School this past year, receiving the Master
of Laws degree. He is now in the practice
of law in Richmond, Ky., with alumnus G.
MuRRAY SMITH, JR., 39.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Howarp W. MARTIN,
JR., a son, Jeffrey Andrew, on February 11,

1969.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Rocer D. KetLsey, a
daughter, Kimberly Dawn, on June 16, 1969.
The couple now has two daughters.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. C. NELSON WILLIAMS,
a son, Carter Preston, on March go, 1969.
The Williams live in Richmond, Va.

IN MEMORIAM
1905

TTHOMAS NEWTON WILSON, a retired mer-
chant, died at his home in Churchville, Va.,
on May g, 1969. Mr. Wilson was a member

of the Loch Willow Presbyterian Church and
served as Sunday School superintendent, dea-
con, and elder of that church for 46 years.
He was engaged in the grocery business in
Churchville for 25 years.

S. BLOUNT MASON, JR., retired vice president
of the U.S. Fidelity and Guaranty Co. and a
descendant of the Mason family of Virginia
died May 9, 1969 in Baltimore. Mr. Mason
had been retired about 15 years. Mr. Mason
was past chairman of the house committee of
the Maryland Club and served as the club’s
secretary from 1940 to 1954.

1908

HiraAM M. Dow, former mayor of Roswell,
N.M., former New Mexico lieutenant gov-
ernor, and former civilian aide to the secre-
tary of the Army, died March 7, 1969. Mr.
Dow was for more than 50 years one of the
outstanding civil and criminal lawyers of New
Mexico and was a member of the law firm
of Harvey, Dow, Hill and Hinkle. He was a
city attorney of Roswell, and a member of
the New Mexico Board of Bar Examiners.
He was also president of the Equitable Build-
ing and Loan Association and president of
the Southwestern Public Service Co. One of
his most outstanding achievements was his
work on the Oil Compact Commission, of
which he was a member for many years.
He made a special study of oil, its. develop-
ment, and its economic impact on the South-

| 191]

EmMetr L. Tarpy died June 3, 1969, in St.
Petersburg, Fla. He was formerly of Lexing-
ton, Va. At one time Mr. Tardy was a struc-
tural engineer with the Virginia Bridge Co.
of Roanoke.

MELVIN E. KurTH, a Houston lawyer for 55
years, died May g, 1969. Mr. Kurth went to
Houston in 1914 and in 1921 was made a
partner in the law firm which later became
Andrews, Kurth, Campbell & Jones. He was
also on the board of directors of the Texas
National Bank of Commerce, J. Weingarten,
Inc., Southland Paper Mills, and several other
companies,

BENJAMIN HARRISON FARQUHAR, a_ retired
engineer for Natural Butane Products Co.
of Port Arthur, Tex., died May 6, 1969. After
graduation, Mr. Farquhar taught mathe-
matics at Lake Charles (La.) High School and
later taught mathematics at Georgia Tech.
In 1915 he was employed by the old Union
Sulphur Co. as a maintenance engineer and
was with this firm until it was dissolved
in 1928. After nearly 14 years with the
Louisiana State Highway Commission as con-
struction and maintenance engineer, he join-
ed the Natural Butane Products Co. of Port
Arthur, Tex., where he retired soon after
World War II. He was a thirty-two-degree

Mason.
1914

Everett M. GREER, prominent attorney in
Newport, Tenn., died May 1, 1969. After
service in World War I, Mr. Greer returned
to private practice in Newport. He was

U. S. Attorney for the Eastern District of
‘Tennessee from 1927 to 1929; was manager
of the Veterans Administration Soldiers’
Home in Johnson City, Tenn., until 1933;
and thereafter, served in the law depart-
ment of the Veteran Administration in Wash-
ington, D. C., until his retirement in 1956.

1918

GEORGE GOODWYN JOYNES, JR., former cashier
for the First National Bank of Onancock,
Va., died April 16, 1969.

1920

HARRY POWER BuRNs, a salesman for Walton
Tribune, Inc., died in Atlanta, Ga., on May
7, 1969. Soon after graduation from Wash-
ington and Lee Mr. Burns went with Corti-
celli Silk Co., which was later merged with
the Belding Hemingway Co., one of the
largest manufacturers of industrial thread
in the country. Mr. Burns was a Mason and
a member of the Atlanta Textile Club.

1923

Ropert K. Park, who built Ravenswood’s
Farmers Building and Loan Association, died
April 30, 1969, at his home in Ravenswood,
W. Va. Mr. Park was associated with the
building and loan association for 45 years.
He was on the board of directors for three
years of the Mutual Council of Savings and
Loan League. Just recently he had been
named to the 1969 International Develop-
ment Committee of the United States Sav-
ings and Loan League. Mr. Park served 10
years on the Ravenswood City Council. He
was active in civic and professional work
and was a leader of the Boy Scout Program.

1931

CHARLES WILLIAM Day, Jr., died in Houston,
Tex., on June 8, 1969. Mr. Day was a promi-
nent independent oil man and gas producer.
After graduation from Washington and Lee,
where he distinguished himself in varsity
sports including boxing, he received a law
degree from Tulsa University in 1938. Mr.
Day worked as a scout for the old British-
American Oil Co. in Oklahoma and Sohio
Petroleum Corp. before going into business
as an independent. He brought in wells in
Texas, Oklahoma, Virginia, and Canada.

1934

WILLIAM BrockLey CArver, formerly with the
R. H. Sheppard Company of Hanover, Pa.,
died Nov. 2, 1968.

1963

Lt. WALTER L. Toy, an officer in the Medical
Corps of the United States Navy, was killed
in action on March 26, 1969. Before joining
the service, Lt. Walter received his medical
degree from Tulane University.

197]

STEPHEN CRAIG ADAIR died May 27, 1969, in
Erie, Pa. Formerly of Bellaire, Tex., he had
attended the University of Houston after
leaving Washington and Lee in 1968.

-— i

GENERAL LEE’S COLLEGE

“LINGE so

ah fo STAN

 

A history of Washington and Lee University
by Dr, Ollinger Crenshaw

Professor of History and University Historian
Published by Random House, New York

Price: $10.00

This book is a work of devotion and painstaking scholar-
ship on the part of the University’s distinguished
historian. It will have deep meaning for everyone who
has shared the Washington and Lee experience. For all,
it is an important record of the development of one

of the nation’s great institutions.

Here is the story of Washington and Lee University as
only Dr. Crenshaw could tell it—from its beginnings as a
small classical academy to a place of prominence in
education that continues today. It is a story of crises
met and overcome, of self-sacrifice for the good of the
institution, of changing perspectives, of unusual
educational foresight, of personalities, great teachers,
outstanding administrators, distinguished alumni

who personify the best of Washington and Lee.

It is a book no alumnus of Washington and Lee, no
friend of Washington and Lee, no patron of higher
education can afford to be without. Be sure to obtain a
first edition copy. Please fill in and return the attached
order form today. Mail it to The Bookstore, Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450,
together with your payment of $10.00 plus a 75-cent
handling charge for each copy purchased.

 

ORDER FORM

THE BOOKSTORE
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me. copy(ies) of General Lee’s College, a
history of Washington and Lee University by Dr. Ollinger Cren-
shaw, at $10.00 each. (Include 75 cents handling charges for
each copy purchased).

 

Name

 

Address Zip Code

Payment of $ is enclosed.

 

WASHINGTON & LEE ALUMNUS

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

