in

1966

iy _ PF al -

canine

WINTER.
Marion Junk
Teacher-Artist

ao

*

ie eter
? agian. eR ae

Z
Pw
(gy Wi
ye
IQ
Y) Z
<

LJ
.
N
q
©
<
=
Z
=
5
andl
q

THE

&

W.

 

Class Agents for 1965-66

1887-1915—Alumni Office

1916-A—E. B. Shultz, P. O. Box 4, Norris, Tennessee 37828

1916-L—George D. Shore, Jr., P. O. Box 1057, Sumter, South
Carolina 29150

1917-A—

1917-L—J. Seybert Hansel, Monterey, Virginia 24465

1918 —James C. Ambler, 20 Church Street, Montclair, New
Jersey
1919 —G. E. McClure, Fairfield, Virginia 24435

1920-A—Edward G. Bailey, 27 Malvern Avenue, Apt. 4, Rich-
mond, Va. 23221

1920-L—Fred D. Townsend, 713 Barringer Bldg., Columbia
South Carolina 29201

1921-A—H. Gray Funkhouser, 2 Folsom Street, Exeter, New
Hampshire 03833

1921-L—J. Edward Moyler, P. O. Box 116, Franklin, Virginia
23851

1922-A—Dewey A. Reynolds, 65 Sunset Drive, Buena Vista,
Tarpon Springs, Florida 33589

1922-L—George W. Taliaferro, Forest Hills, Harrisonburg,
Virginia 22801

1923-A—Thomas M. Wade, Jr., 3309 Oriole Drive, Louisville,
Kentucky 40213

1923-L—John J. Hudak, 137 Chestnut Street, Garfield, New
Jersey 07026

1924-A—Stuart A. MacCorkle, 3719 Gilbert Street, Austin,
Texas 76703

1924-L—M. P. Matheney, Attorney at Law, 314 East Elm 5t.,
El Dorado, Arkansas 71730

1925-A—Frank P. Fischer, P. O. Box 4153, New Orleans,
Louisiana 70118

1925-L—Clarence E. Hinkle, P. O. Box 2002, Roswell, New
Mexico 88201

1926-A—Ralph I. Daves, P. O. Box 930, Lexington, Virginia
24450

1926-L—Judge Earle A. Cadmus, Municipal Court Civic Cen-
ter, Chesapeake, Virginia 23506

1927-A—Alex S. Moffett, P. O. Box 72, Taylorsville, North
Carolina 28681

1927-L—G. Carlton Walters, Yellowtail Drive, Box 3105,
Marathon Shores, Florida 33052

1928-A—Joseph B. Copper, 525 William Penn Place, Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania 15230

1928-L—Oldham Clarke, Kentucky Home Life Bldg., Louis-
ville, Kentucky 40202

1929-A Robert B. Lee, P. O. Box 318, New York, New York
10015

1929-L—Carl W. Hamilton, P. O. Box 6, Wise, Virginia 24293

1930-A—Robert W. Davis, Jr., 1251 Esperson Building, Hous-
ton, Texas 77002

1930-L—B. L. Rawlins, 71 Broadway, New York, New York
10006

1931-A—William P. Ballard, P. O. Box 1111, Norfolk, Vir-
ginia 23501

1931-L—Horace Gooch, 10 Plastics Street, Worcester, Massa-
chusetts 01604

1932-A—Harold J. Sullivan, 800 N. W. 40th Street, Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma 73118

1932-L—Lloyd H. Richmond, 111 North State Street, Chicago,
[llinois 60690

1933-A—T. Kerr Laird, M.D., Montgomery, West Virginia

1933-L—George Joseph, 226 W. Court Street, Flint, Mich-
igan

1934-A—Arthur Tonsmeire, Jr., 100 St. Joseph Street, Mobile,
Alabama 3060601

1934-L—Robert D. Bailey, Capitol Building, Charleston, West
Virginia 25305

1935-A—Grier Wallace, Jr., 423 Cherokee Place, Charlotte,
North Carolina, 28207

1935-L—Thomas C. Smith, P. O. Box 1693, Tulsa, Oklahoma
74101

1936-A—Edward A. Turville, 825 Florida National Bank
Bldg., St. Petersburg, Florida 33701

1936-L—W. H. Seaton, Jr., 307 McKinley Ave., Charleston,
West Virginia 25314

1937-A—Everett A. Martin, 344 W. Bute Street, Norfolk, Vir-
ginia 23510

1937-L—Edward E. Stover, First National Bank Building,
Washington, N. J. 07882

1938-A—C. Price Berryman, Drawer 847, Coffeyville, Kansas

1938-L—Samuel A. Martin, Witten Building, Pearisburg,
Virginia 24134

1939-A—J. H. Ward, III, 1200 Starks Bldg., Louisville, Ken-
tucky 40207

1939-L—William A. Young, 314 Wilkinson Street, Frankfort,
Kentucky 40601

1940-A—Edwin H. Miller, Miller, Miller & Kuczynski, Mary-
land National Bank Building, Hagerstown, Mary-
land 21740

1940-L—John C. White, 5505 Jordan Road,
D. C. 20016

1941-A—G. Richard Day, Wampum _ Road-Indian
Louisville, Kentucky 40207

NT nee Smith, Jr., Box 192, Richmond, Kentucky

75

1942-A—John L. Dorsey, Jr., Ohio Valley
Henderson, Kentucky 42420

1942-L—Charles F. Bagley, P. O. Box 1835,
West Virginia 25719

Washington,

Hills,

Jank Building,

Huntington,

1943 —A. B. Conley, Jr., P. O. Box 1084, Jacksonville, Flor-
ida 32201

1944 —Donald H. Putnam, Jr., Box 991 Ashland, Kentucky

1945 —Tom Kaylor, 123 West Washington Street, Hagers-
town, Maryland 21740

1946 —John H. Cheatham, Jr., 651 Brook Circle, Griffin,
Georgia, 30223

1947. —Lee Silverstein, 1416 E. 55th Street, Chicago, Illinois

60615

1948-A—James F. Booker, 208 Medford Road, Wilmington,
Delaware 19803

1948-L—James M. Ballengee, 762 Lancaster Ave., Bryn Mawr,
Pennsylvania 19010

1949-A—William Hamilton, 2214 Grove Avenue, Richmond,
Virginia 23220

1949-L—J. aoe Larrick, Box 444, Winchester, Virginia
220

1950-A—William P. Walther, Elm Street, Eldred, Pennsyl-
vania 16731

1950-L—William J. Ledbetter, Route 3, Box 125-H, Wayzata,
Minnesota 55391

1951-A—Samuel B. Hollis, c/o Percy Galbreath & Son, Inc.,
56 N. Main Street, Memphis, Tennessee 38103

1951-L—Wade H. Ballard, III, Box 295, Peterstown, West
West Virginia 24963

1952-A—Fletcher McClintock, 608 Daniel Drive, Lafayette,
Louisiana 70501

1952-L—Thomas R. McNamara, 1200 Maritime Tower, Nor-
folk, Virginia 23510

1953-A—Frank A. McCormick, 510 West 6th Street, Suite
1107, Los Angeles, California 90014

1953-L—Willis A. Woods, Woods & Gleaves, Wythville, \ ir-
ginia 24382

1954-A—Robert P. Smith, Jr., 1520 Barnett National Bank
Building, Jacksonville, Florida 32202

1954-L—Gil Bocetti, Pilot Title Insurance Co.,
Greensboro, North Carolina

1955-A—Arthur Barrett, Jr., 1114 Americana Building, Hous-
ton, Texas

1955-L—William B. Poff, 2231 Woodcliff Road, S.E., Roa-

noke, Virginia 24014

1956-A—Charles R. Beall, Martinsburg, West Virginia 25401

1956-L—L. P. Collins, Box 65, Marion, Virginia

1957-A—William J. Russell, Jr., Hollow Road, RD No. 1,
Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355

1957-L—Noel P. Copen, P. O. Box 2185, Huntington, West
Virginia 25722

1958-A—Dominick A. Flora, Box 4281, Cleveland 32, Ohio

ee nen D. Haynes, 333 LTV Tower, Dallas, Texas
7520

1959-A—Charles D. Hurt, Jr., 614 William-Oliver Bldg., At-
lanta, Georgia 30303

1959-L—Peter P. Griffin, 1838 Philadelphia National
Bldg., Broad & Chestnut St.

1960-A—Richard J. Aberson, 250 East 73rd Street, New York,
New York 10021

Oe as oe 316 Sunset Road, Salem, Virginia
2415:

1961-A—George Y. Birdsong, P. O. Box 1400, Suffolk, Vir-
ginia 23434

1961-L—Warren R. Welsh, 3581 E. Glencoe Street, Miami,
Florida 33133

1962-A—Steven A. Galef, Scarsdale Manor South, Scarsdale,
New York 10583

1962-L—Raymond R. Robrecht, Jr., 131 W. Kirk Avenue,
Roanoke, Virginia 24011

1963-A—Peter M. Weimer, Neale Phypers Co., 815 Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114

1963-L—Jay W. Johnson, 88 East Broad Street, Suite 1220,
Columbus, Ohio

1964-A—E. H. Hollman, 115 Arlington Drive, Belleville, [lli-
nois 62223

1964-L—Edward A. Ames, III, Seven Gables,
Virginia 23301

Box P.

Bank

Accomac.,

THE

ASHINGTON

 

AND Lee ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ik-ditor
\WitLIAM C. WASHBURN, 1940

.

Managing Editor

FRANK A. PARSONS, 1954

Editorial Associate

\irs. ROBERT STEWART

LHE WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.

President
|... MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., 33

lice-President

FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN, ‘24

secretary

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ‘40

| reasurer

ROBERT A. FULWILER, JR., (25

LHE BOARD OF TRUSTEES

WitttAM C. BAKER, ‘38
GEORGE CrAbbock, M.D., ‘30
JAMES H. CLARK, ‘31

JAcK L. Crist, JR., '45

Hl. LYNDALL DICKINSON, ‘39

[| HOMAS C. Frost, JR., "50
ROBERT A. FULWILER, JR., '25
[HOMAS W. Moses, '39

. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., '33, President
JAMES W. Priest, M.D., °43
FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN, '24
SHERWOOD W. WISE, "32

LDELTORIAL BOARD

PAXTON DAvis

PRANK J. GILLIAM, 1917

.. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., 1933
\VILLIAM C, WASHBURN, 1940
}AMES W. WHITEHEAD

 

Published quarterly by Alumni, Incor-
porated, Washington and Lee Uhiversity,
eXington, Virginia.

tntered as Second Class Matter at the
Post Office at Lexington, Virginia, Sep-
‘ember 15, 1924. Printed at the Journalism
~2Doratory Press of Washington and Lee
niversity under the supervision of C.
Harold Lauck.

Volume XLI
Number 1

March 1966

Due to unavoidable delays, this winter issue
of the Alumni Magazine will not reach most
alumni until early summer. Perhaps the cover
scene of the big snow of last winter will have
a cooling effect for readers whose
temperatures have begun to rise.

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Dr. Bean Uncovers Important New Lee Papers 9
“Outward Bound” for Four Students —. , 10
Founders’ Day, 1966 ergs Poet rake ee eee. 1S
VATION PileeeeeT TRCCTORMBES 05 a aa ee Td

ING Ws OF CR. SOR to a Fe le hie eee RE
Ah OS AUE Dk DR ee a I Bi Coa BB
Archie Mathis Picked for Wrestling Hall of Fame  .  . ~~ 32
Basketball Prospects Are Looking Up... Ree ae
2ne Alvi funda rere eoite. See kw 8
The Alumni House Nears Completion . . . . . = 37
asa INOGRS <5) ee a NR ce 37
it MeniOniam  ~ 3 bs oe ae ee hee ee oe

LuDaDEer NGWS. 5° Ramee ee ee eee

 

he

Lee Talks Frankly

Of the War and His Final
Months in Lexington

Dr. W. G. Bean, Professor of History, Emeritus, has discovered
remarkable memoranda of two conversations between Robert
E. Lee and a member of his Washington College faculty, Wil-
liam Preston Johnston. Professor Johnston's recollections of
Lee’s remarks shed new light on Lee’s attitude toward Generals
Ewell, Longstreet, and other aspects of the Civil War, and they
provide a new insight into Lee's thoughts during the final year
of his presidency of Washington College. Dr. Bean’s article,
based on these memoranda, was written for the Virginia Mag-
azine of History and Biography, and 1s used here with permis-
sion of its editor, William M. E. Rachal. ‘The memoranda were
contained in a scrapbook given two years ago to McCormick
Library by the children of Henry St. George ‘Tucker and Hen-
rietta Preston (Johnston) ‘Tucker. Mrs. ‘Tucker was the daugh-
ter of Professor Johnston.

Dr. Bran joined the Washington and Lee fac-
ulty in 1922, and from 1930 until his retirement
from teaching in 1962 he was head of the De-
partment of History. He continues to be an in-
defatigable scholar of history, and during the
recent Civil War Centennial he served on the
executive commiitee of the Virginia Civil Wa

 

 

Centennial Commission.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

HILE GENERAL ROBERT E. LEE was president ol
WY ware College, 1865-1870, one of his col-
leagues was Colonel William Preston Johnston, son of
General Albert Sidney Johnston and Jefferson Davis’
military aide during the Civil War.!

\William Preston Johnston had first met Lee at
Louisville, Kentucky, in 1855 where Lee was in tem-
porary command of the recently organized Second
().S. Cavalry, whose colonel and lieutenant colonel
were Albert Sidney Johnston and Robert E. Lee re-
spectively. Albert Sidney Johnston, who had not yet
arrived to assume command, had requested his son,
who was practicing law at Louisville, to call upon Lee
at the Galt House, where he was staying. The young-
er Johnston found Lee alone in a large parlor, stand-
ing ‘in a dignified but easy posture,” and the thought
instantly flashed through his mind, “It was thus that
\Washington looked.” Although Lee received him
eraciously, young Johnston could never recall any of
the conversation, but he always remembered that he
was struck by the perfect poise of Lee—the most hand-
some man he had ever seen. “His rich brown coloring,
dark hair and eyes, aquiline features and shapely
limbs...combined to form a majestic figure, which
brought back [Johnston's] early conception of em-
bodicd patriotism as represented by Washington.”
L.ce’s resemblance to Washington, which Johnston nev-
er forgot, was well expressed, he said, after Lee’s death
by a colonel Richard Wintersmith in a quaint epi-
eram, “When General Lee had been taken to heaven,
George Washington was relieved from the sense of
eternal loneliness.’

During the war Colonel Preston Johnston was oc-
casionally thrown in contact with General Lee, and
the General always treated him with the uttermost
kindness. In the summer of 1864, when Lee was re-
sisting Grant’s drive toward Richmond, the Colonel
irequently rode to the General’s headquarters, return-
ing in the late afternoon and reporting to the President
that night any information he had picked up. He dis-
tinctly remembered one visit while the battle of Cold

 

 

‘Arthur Marvin Shaw, William Preston Johnston, A Tran-
silional Figure of the Confederacy (Baton Rouge, 1943), Chs.
II-IV, cited hereafter as Shaw, Johnston. William Preston John-
‘ton was a graduate of Yale College.

‘William Preston Johnston, “Reminiscences of Robert E.
Lee,” Belford Monthly, V (June 1890), 84-85, hereafter cited
as Johnston, “Reminiscences.” The reminiscences which John-
ston wrote for the Monthly in 1890 are not to be confused
with those contained in the Memoranda of the two conversa-
tions he had with General Lee on May 7, 1868, and March 18,
S70. The second U.S. Cavalry was one of two cavalry regiments
Organized by the War Department in 1854. Its officers were se-
lected on the basis of merit and experience, instead of seniority,
and all of them subsequently became general officers in either
the Confederate or Federal armies. The identity of Colonel
Wintersmith is unknown to the writer. It has been suggested
that he was either an English journalist or newspaper man.

WINTER 1966

Harbor was in progress, and General Lee, Johnston

said,
was kind and affable, and when he mounted to
ride he asked me to accompany him, which I
did. We rode to the rear of the lines, fairly well
under cover. A pretty sharp fight was going on,
a great deal sharper than usual, not such a one
as to impress me with the idea of a great battle.
After the heat of the conflict had subsided, we
returned to the headquarters. I did not know
that I had been present at a memorable battle—
the battle of Cold Harbor.

When I was ready to leave for Richmond,
I said to General Lee, “General, is there any
message I can bear to the President from you?”
He was sitting in front of fly-tent on a camp
stool, with his hands resting on his knees, and
I can never forget the impression made upon
my mind by the absolute simplicity of his man-
ner. He replied in a tone evincing thoughtful-
ness—half soliloguy—‘‘I do not know what Gen-
eral Grant meant by his attack this morning.
It was too heavy for a feint, yet I hardly think
he expected to break through here.” I said,
“General I suppose General Grant will contin-
ue to move by his left and cross the Chickahom-
iny?” “Yes,” he replied, “across the Chickahom-
iny and across the James, I think. You can tell
the President I will make him cross the Chicka-
hominy as low down as I can.” ... What struck
me in this day’s intercourse with General Lee
was his entire lack of self-consciousness, and
the composure with which he met events so mo-
mentous as those of the bloody day of Cold
Harbor....

One thing which has always surprised me
was the slowness of the Southern people, as well
as Of his opponents, to realize the tremendous
audacity of his military movements. There was
an evenness and self-control in General Lee’s
bearing and habits of thought, under almost
any circumstances, which prevented the ordi-
nary Observer from realizing the boldness and
energy held reserve under the cover of his
composed demeanor... It was not the manner
with which he did things, so much as the results,
which he seemed to accomplish so easily and as
a matter of course... He always appeared to me
perfectly poised, and to meet great and small
issues with the same careful, yet undisturbed,
measure of effort. In laying out a walk or flower-
bed, he was as painstaking as mapping out a
campaign.®

 

*Shaw, Johnston, ch. V; Johnston, “Reminiscences,” V, 87-88.
At the beginning of hostilities in April 1861, Johnston cast
his lot with the Southern Confederacy and recruited troops for
its army in Kentucky. He was eventually appointed lieutenant
colonel of the First Kentucky Infantry Regiment. Having served
with the regiment in Northern Virginia in the fall of 1861 and in
the Peninsular campaign in the spring of 1862, Johnston realized
that his frail constitution unfitted him for active field duty
and joined President Jefferson Davis’ staff as military aide. He
remained with Davis until the end of the war, was captured with
the President, and confined at Fort Delaware until he took the
oath of allegiance to the United States.

As President of Washington College, General Lee's
relationship with the faculty, was according to John-
ston,

courteous, kind, and often playful. We all

thought he deferred entirely too much to the

expression of opinion on the part of the fac-
ulty, when we all would have preferred that he
would have indicated his own view or desire.

One characteristic of General Lee I noted then

and often recalled; I never saw him take an un-

graceful position. No matter how long or fa-
tiguing a faculty meeting might be, he always
preserved an attitude in which dignity, decor-
um, and grace were united. ... He was never in

a hurry, and all his gestures were easy and sig-

nificant.

The relationship between General Lee and Pres-
ton Johnston was perhaps more intimate than that
which any other faculty member enjoyed because
of their association during the war and also, to a lesser
degree, because of the General’s prewar association
with Johnston's father. General Lee often called upon
him to answer some of his letters, but he revised them
if necessary, and occasionally when he received “odd”
letters, before turning them over to Johnston to an-
swer, he would humorously comment upon them.

Johnston's home, Clifton, was two miles from the
college, across the North (now Maury) River and
since the customary hour of the midday meal at Lex-
ington was three o'clock, he had a standing invita-
tion—often a written note—from the General to dine
with him weekly on the afternoon when the faculty
met. It was inconvenient for him to go home and
return in time for the meeting. Consequently John-
ston

got into the habit of dining with him weekly for
a long time, and had the pleasure and benefit
of his society and that of his family, on very in-
timate terms. He was always a very agreeable
companion. There was a good deal of pleas-
antry and bonhommie in his conversation. He
was not exactly witty, nor was he very humor-
ous, though he gave a sight turn to table-talk,
and enjoyed exceedingly any pleasantry, or
even fun. He liked gaiety and vivacity in those
around him, and I have seen him greatly
amused even at a boisterous outbreak of spir-
its in young people. Yet it is hard for me to re-
call any particular one of his sayings. He often
made a quaint or slightly caustic remark, but
he took care that it should not be too tren-
chant.®

‘Shaw, Johnston, ch. V1; Johnston, “Reminiscences,” V, 88.
After his release from Fort Delaware and after a brief exile in
Canada, Johnston returned to Louisville and resumed the prac-
tice of law. But, finding that his health could not endure the
strain to which he was subjected, he accepted in 1867 an invi-
tation from General Lee, then President of Washington College
(now Washington and Lee University), to occupy the chair of
history and literature, a position for which he was eminently
fitted by culture and inclination.

“Ibid., V, 88, 89.

Now and then General Lee’s quaint humor would
manifest itself either in his correspondence or his
conversation, Johnston added, and he cited two illus-
trations of this trait. On one occasion, in a reply to a
group of Spiritualists who had written him for his
opinion of Von Moltke and the Franco-German War of
1870, General Lee courteously stated that “the ques-
tion was one about which miltiary critics would differ,
that his own judgment about such matters was poor
at best, and that inasmuch as they had the power to
consult (through their medium) Caesar, Alexander,
Wellington, and all other great captains who had
ever lived, he would not think of obtruding his opin-
ion in such company.”® Again, one day while John-
ston was conversing with the General and Mrs. Lee in
their home, the conversation turned to the Custis
family and the General inquired of Johnston if he had
heard about “the vixen in the family, whose husband
had tried in vain to conquer her.” When Johnston
admitted he had, General Lee, looking at Mrs. Lee,
who was smiling, said, “You see, Colonel, it will not
do to try conclusions with these Custis women. They
always come out best.” Mrs. Lee’s reaction was “some
apt and pleasant reply.”*

Johnston declared that, although General Lee rare-
ly mentioned politics in his conversations with him,
the General felt very deeply, and expressed in strong
terms, his disapproval of the policies of the Radical
Republicans toward the conquered South. While John-
ston did not feel at liberty to comment upon “the par-
ticulars...of the General's special criticisms of indi-
viduals,” he was confident that he had no wish to con-
ceal “his views of the injustice suffered by the Southern
people.” So, in the last of the two recorded conversa-
tions with General Lee on March 16, 1870, Johnston
did quote him as speaking “of the vindictiveness and
malignity of the Yankees, of which he had no concep-
tion before the war.”

The first conversation took place on May 7, 1868:°

 

‘Johnston, “Reminiscences,” V, 89, go. Count von Moltke was
a Prussian General in the Austro-Prussian War of 1866 and
also in the Franco-German War of 1870.

"This is a reference to the fourth John Custis and his wife
Frances, whose home was Arlington on the Eastern Shore of
Virginia. Though the domestic life of the eccentric John and
the strong willed Frances was marred by constant strife, they
did not separate but there were “long periods of silence between
them during which they were said to have communicated only
by the butler.” However, John eventually had the last word
which was carved on his marble tomb. Their son, John Parke
Custis, was the first husband of Martha Dandridge, later Martha
Washington, and her grandson, George Washington Parke Custis,
was Mrs. Robert E. Lee’s father (Paul Wilstach, Tidewater
Virginia [New York, 1929], pp. 194-195; William Welsh Harrison,
Harrison, Waples and Allied Families... {Philadelphia igio},
p- 98).

‘Johnston, “Reminiscences,” V, 59.

*The typewritten manuscripts of the two conversations are
in the William Preston Johnston Scrapbooks which were pre-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

These likenesses show Wittiam PRESTON JOUNs-
rON as a young man and in later life. They are
reproduced here through the cooperation of
Miks. LAURA Tucker FLETCHER of Lexington and
Mins. MicHAgEL Crocker of Bel Air, Md., de
scendants of PROFESSOR JOHNSTON.

General Lee talked with me today about the
operations of his army. He said at the Wilder-
ness, Ewell showed vacillation that prevented
him from getting all out of his troops he
might.If Jackson had been alive and there, he
would have crushed the enemy. He said Long-
street was slow coming up “next day” (I think
he said); that if he had been in time he would
have struck the enemy on the flank while they
were engaged in front. He said Longstreet
was olten slow. He said that when his line was
attacked there while Longstreet was relieving
Hill (or vice-versa) that the men received a blow

sented to the McCormick Library, Washington and Lee Univer-
Sit y the children of Henry St. George ‘Tucker and Henrietta
Preston (Johnston) ‘Tucker, who was the daughter of William
?reston Johnston.

‘The first clash between Lee and Grant occurred in the

Wilderness on the afternoon of May 5, 1864, when Ewell’s corps
| was advancing easterly on the Orange Turnpike came
mnitact with Warren’s Federal corps near the Old Wilderness
rn. Almost simultaneously on the Orange Plank Road
1 paralleled the lurnpike about a mile to the south, A. P.

Hill’s corps ran into Hancock’s Federal corps, and on both fronts
lighting was fierce but inconclusive.

On the Plank Road the battle on the sixth was nearly a
ister for Lee. Longstreet’s corps which had been ordered to
ve at midnight of the fifth did not come up until sometime

daybreak. In the meantime, at dawn Hancock had hurled
corps against Hill’s exhausted troops who, expecting to be
ved by Longstreet’s men during the night, fell) back in

WINTER 1966

 

 

that injured their morale. He always felt afraid
when going to attack after that.'° He spoke of
Grant's gradual whirl and change of base from
Fredericksburg to Port Royal, then to York Riv-
er and then to James River, as a thing which,
though foreseen, it was impossible to prevent.

He said that his campaign had been compared
by General Johnston to his retreat from Dalton.
“I do not propose to criticize him,” said he,
“but I fought the enemy at every step. I faced
him and I protected Richmond; stay-at-home
critics may censure my army,” said he, “but |

disorder, and only Poague’s artillery and the arrival of Long-
street's troops prevented a rout.

While the fighting raged on the Plank Road, an opportunity
for turning the enemy’s right flank and getting into his rea
was presented Ewell. General Gordon, having discovered this
flank “in the air” and unsupported, hastened to corps head-
quarters where he found Ewell and Jubal A. Early, Gordon's
divisional commander, and urged them to permit him to attack
with his brigade. Early argued against the attack, contending,
without a personal reconnaissance, that enemy reserves were in
the rear of this flank, and that if the attack should fail and
the enemy took the offensive, Ewell’s corps, with its reserves
used up, would be involved in a disaster. Ewell, confronted with
two conflicting views and unable to make up his hind, hesitated
and permitted the day to pass without striking a blow. Of this
episode Clifford Dowdey has written that Ewell, as at Gettysburg,
had “suffered paralysis of the will at the necessity of making a
decision and divorced his corps from the actions of the day”

(Clifford Dowdey, Lee’s Last Campaign |Boston, 1960), p. 170).

believe I got out of them all they could do or
all any men could do.!! After Gettysburg, the
[New York] Herald announced that the army
could not be out maneuvered and must be
crushed; and that policy was soon adopted.”

He spoke pretty freely of the policy of the
war. He claimed he knew [in 1861] the strength
of the United States Government; and saw the
necessity at first of two things—a proclamation
of gradual emancipation and the use of negroes
as soldiers, and second the necessity of the early
and prompt exportation of the cotton. I men-
tioned the difficulty of a “Confederate Govern-
ment” resisting a centralization one,'* to which
he assented. He regretted that [John C.| Breck-
inridge had not been earlier made secretary ol
war. “He is a great man,” said General Lee,
“T was acquainted with him as Congressman and
Vice-President and as one of our Generals, but
I did not know him till he was secretary of war,
and he is a lofty, pure strong man.'*

General Lee says he is an “American cCiti-

 

“While Grant was forcing Lee back to Richmond, Sherman
was forcing Johnston back to Atlanta, and on July 9, 1864,
Johnston, who had conducted a skillful retreat with Sherman
on his heels, retired behind the Chattahoochee River to his
defenses around Atlanta. Affecting dissatisfaction with Johnston's
strategy of retreat, President Davis replaced him with General
John B. Hood because Johnston had failed to “arrest the advance
of the enemy to the vicinity of Atlanta” (The War of Rebellion:
A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Con-
federate Armies [Washington, D.-C., 1880-1901], ser. 1, NXNXVITI,
pt. 5, p. 885).

Replying to the charge, Johnston justified his detensive
policy by comparing his achievements in the campaign with
those of Lee in Virginia. He declared that while Sherman's army
had a greater superiority over his than Grant's over Lee's, yet
Sherman had been compelled to advance slower from Dalton,
Georgia, to Atlanta than Grant from the Rapidan River to
Petersburg; moreover Sherman had penetrated deeper in Geor-
gia that Grant into Virginia (Joseph E. Johnston, Narrative of
Military Operations... Centennial Civil War Issue, edited by
Frank Vandiver [Bloomington, Ind.}, 1939, p. 349. Later John-
ston complained to a friend, “Why should I be condemned for
the defensive strategy, while Gen. Lee was adding to his great
fame by the same method?” (Johnston to General Dabney H.
Maury, Macon, Ga., September 1, 1964, (Memories of Joseph E£.
Johnston, edited by Bradley T. Johnston [Baltimore, 1891], p.
296).

“Early in the war, President Davis realized the necessity of
centralizing power at Richmond, especially in such measures
as raising and controlling armies, taxation, and the suspension
of the writ of the habeas corpus. However, Vice-President
Alexander H. Stephens and Governors Joseph E. Brown and
Zebulon B. Vance, who were obsessed with states’ rights, were
bitter opponents of the President’s policy of centralization.

A native of Kentucky, Breckinridge was a veteran of the
Mexican War, congressman, vice-president of the United States,
1857-1861, and unsuccessful candidate for president of the
Southern Democratic Party in 1860, After the expiration of his
term as vice-president, he was returned to Washington as one
of Kentucky’s senators. Though believing in the doctrine of
secession, he opposed the adoption of such a course in 1860-1861,
and at the same time opposed the coercion of the seceded states.
In the crisis which followed the formation of the Southern
Confederacy in February 1861, Breckinridge supported the efforts
at compromise and upon the outbreak of war he defended

6

zen,” that he is not factious, but he can not and
will not say that the Radicals are right. He
does not think that the movement of Baldwin,
A. H. H. Stuart, and others (now) to ask for
Negro-Suffrage and general amnesty will do any
good. I expressed this view to which he agreed,
and added that immediately after the war he
had advised them to adopt “impartial suffrage”
(which, he said would have excluded ten negroes
and one white man), say or some restricted-
franchise basis, and these gentlemen scouted the
idea. Old man Wickham said they ought to de-
mand a reopening of the African Slave ‘Trade,
“which just shows,” said he; “how mad men
were.” He spoke, however, of the good inten-
tions of Stuart and the others."

I spoke to the General of writing the his-
tory of the war which elicited the above re-
marks. He spoke of the difhiculty of getting the
documents to verify his statements, and his wish
to be able to prove all he said; but he told me
it was his purpose to write a history of his

 

in the senate the course of the South, refusing to support
Lincoln’s war policies. Expelled in December 1861 from the
Senate, from which he had already fled, he joined the Confed-
erates, and by the end of the war he had attained the rank of
major general. In February 1865 Breckinridge joined Davis’
cabinet as Secretary of War. After the surrender he lived abroad
briefly before he returned to Kentucky.

“In Virginia, in 1868 a radical Constitutional Convention
drafted a constitution known as the “Underwood Constitution,”
which conferred the privilege of voting and_ office-holding
upon the Negroes and disqualified in the test-oath article all
who had supported the late Confederacy. These features of the
constitution were objectionable to the whites, and they prevailed
upon General Schofield, military governor of Virginia, who also
opposed the disqualifying clause, to delay indefinitely the ratift-
cation of the constitution. The purpose of the delay was two-
fold— to enable the white leaders to convince the public of the
inevitability of Negro suffrage and, in return for this concession,
they believed Congress might possibly agree to the removal of
the disfranchising features of the proposed constitution. A com-
mittee of prominent Virginians, which included A. H. H. Stuart,
John B. Baldwin, and others, went to Washington and persuaded
Congress, with the strong support of General Schofield, President
Grant, and leading Radical Republicans, to permit the voters of
Virginia to vote on the rejection or ratification of the constitu-
tion and at the same time to vote separately upon the disqualify-
ing and test-oath clauses respectively. In the election of July 6,
1870, the constitution was adopted with the provision for Negro
suffrage, but the two obnoxious clauses submitted separately were
defeated. By this subterfuge Virginia escaped the worst features
of radical reconstruction.

In the Constitutional Convention the conservative whites
had unsuccessfully proposed impartial suffrage, that is, suffrage
based upon property-holding and intelligence (literacy test).
Although it was primarily designed to exclude the Negro masses
from voting, it was recognized that it would also disfranchise a
few white voters. General Lee, who had opposed Negro suffrage,
favored instead impartial suffrage, estimating that the ratio of
exclusion under it would be one white voter to ten Negro
voters.

William F. Wickham was the father of both General Wil-
liams C. Wickham, famous Confederate cavalry leader, and
Charlotte Wickham first wife of General W. H. F. (Rooney)
Lee, son of General Robert FE. Lee.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

army.'* He explained to me his business ar-
rangements, seizure of Arlington, etc.16

The General had been talking with me
about the various offers to induce him to enter
the insurance business; but the sacredness of
such a trust, as he expressed it, and the difh-
culties of conducting it, made him adverse to
trying 1t.17

| wish I had taken down more of the conver-
sation of General Lee. No man can talk to
him when he opens his mind in full confidence
without feeling that he is a proud, pure, strong
man. He is [was] confident of his ability on the
battlefield. His capacity is far, far above his
usual conversation.

Lhe second conversation occurred on March 18,
1870:

Tuesday last [March 15, 1870] General Lee
said to me at his office where I had called on
some little matter of routine, that if he did not
get better, he would be obliged to resign his
position as President of Washington College.
| expressed my hope and confidence that he
would speedily recover if he would relieve him-
self of some part of the burdensome labour he
takes on himself, but I was called off at once
on my hour of lecture. I called the next day to
hand him a letter I had prepared at his re-
quest for his signature. I then took the occa-
sion to say to him, after an apology for that
liberty, that his words impressed me very deep-
ly (as in fact, they had, for I knew that with his
reticence and poise he would not have uttered
them without much purpose), and that I was
great pained. I added that his first duty was to
himself and his family, but that I was confident
(hat his illness was due to over-confinement and
want of relaxation and change of air and scene,
and begged him that he would either visit
‘riends at Savannah, as I knew Miss Agnes [his
daughter] wished, or that he would visit Gen-
eral Rooney Lee at the White House.'s

 

“For a full account of General Lee’s proposed history of
‘he Army of Nothern Virginia, see Allen W. Moger, “General
Lces Unwritten ‘History of the Army of Northern Virginia.’ ”
irginia Magazine of History and Biography, LXXI (1963), 341-
3U5-

“During the war, under the direct tax legislation, the United
ytates government had taken over Arlington and made the
4rounds into a cemetery for Federal soldiers. Mrs. Lee, who was
‘iving in Richmond at the time, offered to pay the tax $92.07,
‘hrough her agent, but the government refused to accept it, the
law providing that payment must be made in person by the
owner, Lhe government then obtained the title to the grounds
by paying the tax.

“When John B. Gordon offered General Lee the Presidency
ol the South Life Insurance Company, he replied: “It would be
“ great pleasure to me to be associated with you, Wade Hampton,
sen H. Hill, and the other good men whose names I see on your
‘ist of directors, but I feel that I ought not to abandon the po-
‘ition I hold at Washington College at this time as long as I can
be of service to it” (J. William Jones, Life and Letters of Robert
“dward Lee...{New York, 1906)], P- 433)-

“On March 24, 1870, at the advice of his physician, General
l.ce, accompanied by his daughter Agnes, set out on a trip to
‘he South. On the southward journey he stopped at Warrenton,

WINTER 1966

He said his trouble was partly rheumatic
(in his back) but that adhesion of the mem-
brane of the heart to the pleura impeded his
breathing, so that while he could walk down
hill, any ascent made it necessary for him to
stop and rest even between the chapel and his
house'® When he came here he could easily
walk to Thornhill,?° or to my house; as now,
though he rode easily, he scarcely walked at
all. He alluded to his age, his wish to rest, and,
on some little farm, to enjoy the outdoor life
of the country. He said he could not go to
Savannah without meeting more people than
he wanted to.

He was evidently labouring under great de-
pression of spirits, as is always the case with
him when sick.

I tried to point out to him as delicately as
| could that what we wanted here [Washington
College] was his control, and not his work; that
he had everything in such running order that in
his absence the machine would run for a while
on its own momentum, with the inspiration of
his leadership to which we all looked.

He paid the faculty some compliments. He
mentioned that he wished to visit Alexandria to
settle Mr. Custis’ estate.2! My conversation on

 

North Carolina, where his daughter Annie had died during the
war and was buried, and arriving at Savannah, he made a trip
to Cumberland Island where his father was buried. Before re-
turning to Lexington, he stopped at Shirley, girlhood home of
his mother, and other homes of relatives and friends. Also
he spent a few days with each of his sons, Rooney and Robert,
Jr., at their respective homes at the White House and Roman-
coke. The trip was one continuous ovation from beginning to
end, and crowds of people in the cities and towns through which
the General passed turned out to do homage, and to testify
their devotion, to him. He arrived in Lexington on June 1, 1870.
“General Lee was apparently suffering from angina pectoris,
the first symptom appearing during the war (John C. Krantz, Jr.,
“The Implications of the Medical History of General Lee,” Vir-
ginia Medical Monthly, LXXXVI [June 1959], 306-310).
“Thornhill, located a few miles south of Lexington, was
the home of Judge John W. Brockenbrough, before the war
judge of the United States District Court of Western Virginia
and during the war of the Confederate Court of the same dis-
trict. In addition to his judicial duties, he conducted after 1849
a private law school at Lexington, which in 1866 was integrated
with Washington College. Thornhill was also, before the war,
the home of General Elisha Franklin Paxton of the Stonewall
Brigade, who was killed at Chancellorsville on May 3, 1863.
“In 1857 George Washington Parke Custis, Mrs. Lee’s father,
died at Arlington, and in his will bequeathed to his grandsons,
Custis, Rooney, and Robert, Jr., the estates of Arlington, White
House, and Romancoke, respectively, with legacies from all the
properties for Mrs. Lee and his granddaughters. Furthermore the
will provided that the slaves must be liberated not later than
1862 (Douglas Southall Freeman, R. FE. Lee, a Biography (New
York, 1934-1935] 1, 380). Apparently, during the war, no action
was taken by General Lee, its principal executor, to carry out the
will except the provision to free the slaves, which was accom-
plished in the winter of 1862-1863. Since the bulk of the property
except Arlington (see footnote 16) was located in the area of
Virginia held by the Confederates, it had not been molested by
the enemy. Shortly after the war Rooney and Robert, Jr. took
possession of their inheritance, but Arlington still remained in
the hands of the Federal government. In 1873, after his mother’s

od

/

these and other topics lasted an hour and a
quarter. I saw from this conversation that if he
was not turned from his purpose he would
resign.

Yesterday [March 17] after a serious con-
ference with Professors White?? and Allan,**
who had both been spoken to by General Lee,
we agreed to call an informal Faculty meeting
today and present him our regrets at his state
of health and ask him to take at once a journey
and a couple of months’ relaxation. Col.
Allan consented to draw a paper to that effect
and did so, presenting it in the Faculty meeting
at 3 p.m. where all were present except Protes-
sor Campbell,*4 absent by some mistake. Pro-
fessor _Kirkpatrick?* was in the chair, and we
adopted the resolutions suggested and also re-
questing General Lee to have a_ professor to
attend to his duties during his absence. I (as
chairman), White, and Allan were appointed
a committee to wait on him, which we did
about five o’clock. The General was not look-
ing well. After a few words of ordinary con-
versation, I told him that the Faculty, in view
of his health, had had a meeting and deputed
us to present him the letter [which] I then
handed him. He playfully replied that we were
an irregular body as the President was absent
at [this faculty meeting]; and, in the same
spirit, I told him we had guarded his rights and
only acted as individuals, as he would find. He
read the paper, and in brief repeated what he
had said to me more fully in private, rather
evading a direct answer to our request and
speaking [instead] of horseback exercise, etc.
I also substantially, but briefly and pointedly,
repeated my former conversation and told him

 

death, Custis, after an unsuccessful attempt to secure compensa:
tion from Congress, instituted suits in the District Court and
eventually the United States Supreme Court upheld his conten
tion that the governmental seizure was an act of confiscation;
and by congressional action he received $150,000 as compensa-
tion, agreeing in return to relinquish all claims to the property
(James G. Randall, Constitutional Problems Under Lincoln
|New York, 1926], pp. 320-322).

“James J. White, professor of the classics, and son of the
Reverend Doctor W. S. White, pastor of the Presbyterian Church
at Lexington and General Jackson's friend. He was the first
captain of the Liberty Hall Volunteers, but he resigned in
September 1861 because of ill health (W. G. Bean, Stonewall’s
College Boys: The Liberty Hall Volunteers {Charlottesville,
1964], ch. 1-111).

“William Allan, professor of applied mathematics, former
chief of ordnance, Second Corps, Army of Northern Virginia and
later principal of the McDonough School for Boys, Baltimore,
Maryland.

“John Lyle Campbell, professor of chemistry and geology,
was the only outstanding scholar of the faculty. He was the
author of A Manual of Scientific and Practical Agriculture (Phil-
adelphia, 1859), co-author with W. H. Ruffner of A Physical
Survey Extending from Atlanta, Georgia to the Mississippi River,
Along the Line of the Georgia and Pacific Railroad \eventually
the Southern Railroad]... (New York, 1883), and author of other
publications dealing with geological surveys of Rockbridge and
adjoining counties. He also espoused the cause of Darwinism in
an era when it was very unpopular.

“John L. Kirkpatrick was professor of moral philosophy.

that it had been a frequent matter of conversa-
tion with us all that he was doing work no-
wise suited to him; that he ought to be relieved
of all clerical labour; and that we felt his true
work to be in his supervision and control and
the zeal which his mere presence created among
us all; and that what we wanted was his wisdom
and example to guide us.*8 I also suggested that
the best monument to his fame would be a his-
tory vindicating our cause; that it was due to
himself and the country, and while his presence
here might aflord him the best opportunity for
the work, it would incidentally benefit the
college.

The General replied that he was old, spoke
of our aid in attending his correspondence and
again spoke of the manner in which the Faculty
had done their duty. He said he was hardly cal-
culated to be a historian. He was too interested
and might be biased. I said that everybody
would at least give him credit for trying to tell
the truth, at which he laughed. He spoke of his
efforts to get correct copies of the Confederate
records now in Washington and the difficulties,
and alluded to the demoralization of the coun-
try and his fear that the worse was ahead. By
the bye, the other day, he spoke to me of the
vindicaton and malignity of the Yankees, of
which he had no conception before the war.” He
said also that General Scott was induced [in
1861] to believe that pacification was intended
by Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Seward and [Scott] tried
to persuade him [Lee] that Mr. Lincoln would
recede. He was told that Mr. F. P. Blair asked
in caucus, “In that event what is to become
of the Republican Party?” The same question
now animates the North to cruelty.** He finally

 

“Since the faculty meeting on March 17, 1870, was irregular,
no minutes were kept of its proceedings, but on March 22, at
a regular faculty meeting with General Lee presiding, a resolu-
tion was passed urging the General “to take a recess trom his
duties & spend some time traveling for the benefit of his health.”
General Lee gracefully accepted the proposal and then appointd
Professor Kirkpatrick to perform the presidential duties during
his absence (Faculty Minutes, March 22, 1870, Washington
and Lee University). On April 19, 1870, at a meeting of the
Board of Trustees, Professor Allan presented a faculty resolution
that “the President be permitted to relinquish his official labor
for the term, in order to seek the requisite recreation and his
absence to be continued until his restoration is fully assured and
confirmed.” The resolution was adopted by the Trustees (Record
of Board of Trustees, April 19, 1870, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity).

“The critical issue confronting Abraham Lincoln, upon
assuming the presidency, on March 4, 1861, was the situation at
Fort Sumter. Behind the scenes on inauguration day, a fateful
drama, unknown to the public, was moving toward a climax.
Word had just come from Major Robert Anderson, commander
of the fort, that supplies were running out and could not last
longer than six weeks.

By this time Fort Sumter had assumed a symbolic import-
ance which far exceeded its strategic value. To the South, since
the fort was located in Charleston Harbor, its occupation by a
foreign power with its flag hoisted over the fort, was regarded as
an insult; its possession was essential to the claims of the South-
ern Confederacy to be a sovereign nation. Fort Sumter was like-
wise a symbol to the North. It was national property which had
heen constructed with national funds; to surrender it would be

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

/ s view of Lexing-
was photographed
\IiCHAEL MILEY al
it the time GEN

rRAL Lee and PROFFs-

Rk JOHNSTON engaged

4

the conversations
rded in the accom-
inying article. The
olograph is owned
Vir. \. SYDNEY
Briccs of Dallas, Tex..,
POSSESSES ai ldi-
il collection of Lee
memorabilia,

alluded to his age, ill-health, wish for rest and
lesire to make a permanent home for Mrs. Lee,
“who is helpless,” he said. He also said he
ielt that [he] might at any moment die.**

ecognition of the Southern Confederacy as a nation. Moreove1
retention would be affirmation of Nothern determination to
aintain Federal authority throughout the nation.
l'wice Lincoln consulted the cabinet and on each occasion it
is divided. In late March Lincoln, after weighing carefully
its conflicting views on the solution of the Sumter problem, de-
cided to prepare two expeditions, one to be dispatched im-
mediately to Fort Pickens, off Pensacola, Fla.. where there was
ess explosive emotionalism than at Charleston and which the
Confederates were threatened to reduce: and the other expedi-
tion to stand by, ready to proceed to Fort Sumter, “to be ulti-
mately used or not, according to circumstances,” Lincoln told
Congress on July 4, 1861.

Lincoln said he did not intend to abandon Fort Sumter:

to do so “under the circumstances would be ruinous...it would
not be understood fand] it would be construed as a voluntary
policy.” However, before supplies were exhausted at Sumter,

e believed that Fort Pickens might be reinforced. That accom-
plished, “this would be a clear indication of [his] policy [of
sseruing Federal authority], and would better enable the country
0 accept the evacuation of Fort Sumter as a military necessity.”
in other words, if he had success at Pickens, Lincoln would
| abandon Sumter (Lincoln’s message to Congress, July 4,
161, Complete Works of Abraham Lincoln, edited by John G.
Nicolay and John Hay [New York, 1920], II, 56, 57).

On April 6 Lincoln learned that the Pickens expedition
ad failed to carry out its mission because of a misunderstanding
of orders by the Federal naval commander at Pensacola: his
ily alternative then was to relieve Fort Sumter in order to pre-

ihe starvation or evacuation of its garrison (ibid.).

hrom the beginning of the Fort Sumter crisis to its end Sec-
ary of State William H. Seward’s policy was one of appease-
ent of the South, advocating persistently its abandonment.
“cneral Winfield Scott, head of the army, who invariably echoed
ward's views, also advised the President to yield Fort Sumter,

aT

WINTER 1966

 

I answered that whatever was his final reso-
lution, he had done a great work here, and we
would be satisfied of the wisdom and good feel-
ing on which it was based.

During the later part of the interview, his
eyes were often moist, and we all laboured un-
der a great deal of feeling. He promised to con-
sider the communication, and now it is my be-
lief that this purpose is fixed and that we shall
soon lose General Lee at Washington College.
| begged him last fall to take a trip, but could
not persuade him.?®

arguing that there were not available troops to reinforce it. When
he told Colonel Robert E. Lee on April 1, 1861, that Lincoln
“would recede,” that is, abandon Fort Sumter, this statement was
not necessarily wishful thinking but was based on his fore-
knowledge of Lincoln’s plan to give up the fort if Fort Pickens
could be reinforced.

One of Lincoln’s advisers was the elderly Francis P. Blair,
father of Postmaster General Montgomery Blair and an uncom-
promising opponent, like his son, of concessions to the South.
In an interview with the President shortly after the first cabinet
meeting Francis P. Blair asked him if he had decided to abandon
Major Anderson. When Lincoln replied that nearly all the mem-
bers of the cabinet had favored it “except your son,” and that
the matter had not been determined—Blair sternly warned
Lincoln that abandonment of Sumter would be treason, that it
would destroy the Republican party, and that it would be rec-
ognition of the constitutionality of secession (William Ernest
Smith, Francis Preston Blair Family in Politics |New York, 1933],
Il, g, 10).

“On October 12, 1870, General Lee died, following an illness
of two weeks (Krantz, “The Implications of the Medical History
of General Lee,” Virginia Medical Monthly, LXXXVI, 306-310,
also LXXXVIILT [October 1961], 597-603).

“Eight days after this interview General Lee and Agnes
started on the Southern tour (see footnote 18).

LO

Outward
Bounc

Four Washington and Lee Men
Recount Their Experiences

In a Unique Summer Program
Designed to Inspire Confidence
And Resourcefulness in Its
Participants, Now and Later

By Joun E. HuGHEs, 55,

Assistant Director of Information Services

OU GET UP in the morning at
iy sgt run two miles, then take a
dip in freezing water before break-
last.

In the next 26 days you hike 10
miles a day, rappel down a 350-loot
cliff, participate in a six-mile mara-
thon run ending in a cliff-climb
and take a three-day, 85-mile hike,
spending two nights sleeping on
rocks.

To top it all off, you spend three
days in the wilderness with only
four matches, a fish hook and line,
some salt and “all the warm clothes
you can wear.”

Marine boot camp? Air Force
survival training?

It sounds like it, but it isn’t. It’s
an Outward Bound camp, where
each year hundreds of young Am-
ericans voluntarily undergo rigid
training designed to strengthen
them both in body and mind.

The amazing thing is that there
are enough youths willing to pay
the $350 tuition to attend one of
the camps. But hundreds from
across the country, including four
students at Washington and Lee
University, did.

And all four say it was one of the
outstanding, and rewarding, ex-
periences of their lives, one they
won't soon forget.

‘The idea for Outward Bound be-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

From left to right, LIN HARrTIN, DAveE PARKER, Tom DRAKE, and W

ran in Great Britain during the
irly years of World War II when
as found that a number of mer-
hant seamen, cast into sea when
ir ships were torpedoed, appar-
ently preferred to give up and die
rather than fight for survival until
Britain the idea
other
United

rescued. From

spread after the war to

countries, including the
States. Today there are three Out-
Bound camps in the U.S., one

each in Minnesota, Colorado. and

on Hurricane Island off the coast of

Viaine.

Outward Bound uses physical
challenge as a means of developing
character. Its philosophy might be
stated thusly: Survival in an emer-
scnicy or adversity depends not only
On physical ability, but on a per-
sons will to survive—with perhaps

atter being the more impor-
‘ant. Founded in this country by a
sfoup of U.S. educators and _ busi-
sound

hessmen, the Outward

WINTER 1966

|

 

camps are open for youths between
the ages of 16 and 22. Though the
tuition is $350 for the 26-day
course, scholarships are available.

The first few days are spent in
physical conditioning and learning
instruction in wilderness skills and
knowledge. ‘Then comes a lengthy
wilderness expedition—by foot,
canoe, or sailboat, depending on
the camp. The climax is the three-
day survival test. The youths are on
their own; unseen instructors keep
an eye on them through field glas-
ses for emergencies.

One purpose of the camp is to
push the young men as far as they
will go, to “make them discover
their maximum.” They are group-
ed according to ability. Thus those
who can take more strenuous tests
get them.

[he four Washington and Lee
students who have been to Out-
ward Bound camps have little in

common other than the fact each

ARREN STEWART

went to a camp (all at different
times) and each now attends Wash-
ington and Lee. The four are:
Warren Stewart, an outstanding
athlete and an excellent student.
A junior history major from Stev-
enson, Md., he has been a stand-
out performer on the Generals’
football,
squads and is a dean’s list student.

wrestling, and _ lacrosse
He was voted the outstanding fresh-
man athlete and is a member of the
Fellowship of Christian Athletes,
the Glee Club, and the Sazeracs, an
informal student singing group.

Lin Hartin, also a junior and a
history major. He is from Colum-
bus, Ga. and is a member of the
Young Democrats.

Dave Parker, also a member of
the Glee Club. He is a sophomore
French major from High Point,
N.C.

Tom Drake, a freshman from
Alexandria.

Stewart, the athlete, is large and

muscular; Parker is the handsom-
est of the four; Hartin is heavy-set
and bothered by bad eyesight;
Drake is gangly and looks anything
but the rugged type. But out in the
wilderness, this dissimilar
had similar experiences.

group

Their menu was certainly varied,
if not always appetizing. Two of
them were able to kill birds with
rocks. Drake bagged a_ ruffled
grouse this way (“it tasted like a
cross between a Cornish game hen
and a small chicken’) and Parker
got a ptarmigan. Parker also dined
(?) on a weasel. (“I cornered him
under some rocks; I reached in and
he bit me; he held on and I held
on, and I won’) and a porcupine
(‘“there’s a soft place on its forehead
that you can hit and kill it with-
out getting stuck.) Parker ate only
the porcupine’s liver and heart.
“The rest was kind of gamey.”

Drake ate a crayfish and_ six
frogs. “I'll never eat another frog
in my life,” he commented. Hart-
in, the heavy-set one, just fasted.
“I didn’t eat anything, but a lot
of people were lucky—there are a
lot of green snakes and
around,” he said.

frogs

“The worst part of it is it’s so
cold,” Hartin added, “I stayed up
all night just trying to keep a fire
going.”

Stewart, through a fine bit of in-
genuity, was able to scrounge a
more palatable cuisine.

“T carved a wooden fish hook,
took a strand of wool from my
sock and covered the hook with it
to resemble a fly. Then I used a
strand of nylon from a rope for
fish line. I left it in a stream and
later when I came back there was
a 6-inch rainbow trout on it.”

Needless to say, the experience
helped trim waistlines. “I lost 27
pounds,” said Parker, “and I wasn't
overweight when I began.”

“When I got back I weighed
167," said Stewart, “and I haven't
weighed that since I was 14 or 15."

12

 

The muscular Stewart, who
weighed 215 when a freshman, now
tips the scales at 185.

“I came back in the best physical
shape I’ve ever been in,” Stewart
added.

“The first thing I did when I got
home,” commented Drake, “was
order a cheeseburger, french fries,
and a milk shake.”

Several of the students had har-
rowing experiences. Stewart's came
the closest to being fatal.

“IT almost got killed once when
he re-
counted. “Another boy had slipped
at the same spot and had braked his
fall with his ice axe. They taught
us how to do that. But I foolishly
had not taken my axe out of my
pack. When I fell, I didn’t have
any way of stopping myself.

“As I skidded by, I grabbed the
leg of the other boy who had slip-
ped, and we both tumbled and slid
down the slope. We must have been
going go miles an hour before he
finally managed to stop us with his
aXe.

I fell down an icy slope,”

“I looked up and we were just a
few feet short of some huge bould-
ers.”

Stewart also took part in a real
emergency rescue. When a camper
fell from a cliff and suffered a brok-
en back, Stewart helped carry him
down rocky slopes to a level place
where a helicopter could land to
fly him to safety.

Drake participated in an im-
promptu  search-and-rescue opera-
tion when a youth from another
camp got lost. Forest rangers and an
air-borne sheriff joined the search
before the boy was found, safe, sev-
eral days later.

‘He had come upon a bear, took
off running, fell, and broke his
compass,” Drake said in explaining
how the boy got lost.

Why did they attend Outward
Bound?

‘Because I had never done any-
thing like it before,” said Hartin.

“It is almost impossible to have

a wilderness experience any more,”
Hartin continued. “It is quite an
experience to go through lakes and
wilderness where you know that if
you get hurt or sick you have to
take care of yourself.”

For Stewart, “it was a personal
challenge—to see just how far I
could push myself, both physically
and mentally.”

For Drake the purpose of Out-
ward Bound “is not so much for
body building as for character
building. It is designed to push you
beyond your limits so that in the
future you can’t say ‘I can’t do it.”

All of them agree on one thing—
the experience was invaluable. “I
would pay to do it again,” re-
marked Parker.

“What did I get out of it?” said
Drake. “It’s the experience of know-
ing I’ve been given a challenge
like this and faced it. | know that
if I'm in, say, a plane crash in the
wilderness, I've faced it before and
I could do it again.”

For Stewart “it gave me a little
more self-discipline, a litthe extra
something that keeps me going
when I think I can’t go any more,
like that last minute in a tough
wrestling match.

“The second day, when we were
climbing a mountain in a_hail-
storm, is the closest I ever came to
just quitting in anything, sports or
what-have-you. I was just beat. But
they made me go on and I climbed
es

Said Hartin: “Every day in the
wild you come into contact with
things you wouldn’t normally face.
It makes you feel better both physi-
cally and in your character.”

-arker feels “the greatest thing
it taught me is that not only can |
cope with physical adversity, but
with myself. It changed my atti-
tude toward a lot of things, toward
my school work, toward other peo-
ple.

“T think I grew up more in those
26 days than in my previous 18
years.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Founders’ Day, 1966

President Cole Draws
Parallels between Lee’s
Challenges and Those

Facing the University

A Hundred Years Later

WINTER 1966

S ROBERT FE. LEE did 100 years
A ago, Washington and Lee's
President Fred C. Cole held out a
note of hopefulness for mankind
in the annual January 19th Foun-
ders’ Day assembly in) Doremus
Gymnasium.

President Cole outlined both the
similarities and differences in the
problems faced today and in the
time of Lee, who 100 years ago was
just beginning his first year as pres-
ident of Washington College, now
Washington and Lee University.
President Cole noted:

“President Robert E. Lee fore-
saw for his students better and hap-
pier times—so do we. He had con-
fidence in the ability of youth to
overcome adversity through faith
and education—so do we.”

President Cole quoted the words
of ‘Lee:

“My experience of men has nei-
ther disposed me to think worse
of them;”" Lee said, “nor, in spite of
failures which I lament, of errors
which I now see and acknowledge,
or of present aspect of affairs, do I
despair of the future.

“The truth is this:’’ Lee contin-
ued, “The march of Providence is
so slow and our desires so impa-
tient; the work of progress is so
immense and our means of aiding
it so feeble; the life of humanity is
so long, that of the individual so
brief, that we often see only the
ebb of the advancing wave and are
thus discouraged.

“It is history that teaches us to
hope,” Lee concluded. President
Cole told the 1,350 students that
each Washington and Lee faculty
member is “hopeful that he can

help you toward a sound education
which you will use to help yourself
and your fellowmen.”

While today’s student faces many
problems unheard of in Lee’s time,
one—the question of race relation-
ships—remains in the forefront to-
day, President Cole noted.

“Untortunately, this question
Was not satisfactorily resolved in
the igth century, and has evolved
into the primary social problem of
our time in this country,” Presi-
dent Cole said. Still, he added, “we
should not place too great blame
on our forebears for their failure,
lor theirs was a problem without
precedent. ... We have the knowl-
edge and precedents our ancestors
lacked.”

“Whether we succeed or fail in
making progress toward solutions,
Wwe cannot escape our responsibility
in regard to race relations,” Presi-
dent Cole said.

In meeting such modern-day
problems posed by the atomic age,
space travel, the population ex-
plosion, power over life processes,
and the emerging nations, Presi-
dent Cole told the students:

“The contribution of this Uni-
versity will be made through you,
its students. ... It is not likely that
we will find on this campus great
break-throughs or answers to im-
mense and pressing problems by
our efforts alone.”

“The faculty does expect to help
you in the development of the
knowledge and wisdom which will
assist you to seek answers and to
understand and evaluate the an-
swers proposed by others,“ Presi-
dent Cole said.

1S

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

RETROSPECTIVE show of the

ye works of artist Marion Junk-

27, protessor of fine arts at

\Vashington and Lee, went on dis-

play in March in the university’s
duPont Hall Art Gallery.

| he show featured primarily oils,

ith some water colors and sculp-
ure by Junkin, who has served as

ad of the department of fine arts
since 1949. The show was pre-
sented by the music and drama di-
sion of the department.

[he son of a Presbyterian mis-
sionary, Junkin was born in Korea.
[le was graduated from Washing-
on and Lee in 1927, studied art
lor five years in New York and was

ith the art department at the
Kichmond School of Art (RPI) and
Vanderbilt University before re-

irning to Washington and Lee.

Galleries where Junkin’s work
previously has been exhibited in-
clude Carnegie Institute, Whitney
\fuseum, Corcoran Biennial, and

New York World’s Fair, and
nis one-man shows include those at
ihe Virginia Museum of Fine Arts
i Richmond, the Norfolk Museum.
and several universities, including
Vanderbilt and Georgia.

During the 1950's Dr. Junkin
created six large fresco murals, in-
cluding those for the Richmond
Cerebral Palsy Center, the Jack-
son Memorial Hospital in Lex-
ington, and the Leader Federal Sav-
ings and Loan Association in Mem-
his. The largest, in Washington
McCormick
measures 484 feet wide by 10 feet

}
} }
hii’ i]

and Lee’s Library,

some of the paintings displayed
Professor Junkin’s retrospective
are reproduced on the fol-
Ng pages, along with comments
the artist that provide an insight
his painting and its motiva-
On Pages 22-23, the artist

Sore about his work.

WINTER 1966

 

 

The opening of the Junkin exhibition
in duPont Hall’s gallery drew many
friends and admirers of the artist.
Above, Henry H. Hecur, JRr., '59, left,
of Baltimore, a former § student of
PROFESSOR JUNKIN, discusses painting

with Pierre Daura, right, a distin

guished artist now living in Roc k bridge

County. PRESIDENT CoLe is an inter-
ested listener. At right, PROFESSOR
JUNKIN receives congratulations on the
exhibit. Below, l-r, Mrs. Cote Davis.
Mrs. CHARLES LAUGHLIN, and Mrs.
Davin SpRUNT admire a JUNKIN paint-

ing entitled “Autobiography.”

 

 

Or

srt

MERE ELO

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Young Priest

Posed for by Timotuy Dots now studying at the Episco-
cal Seminary in Alexandria, Va. Not an exact likeness, but
painted with a question mark. A portrait must have some
exaggeration, some isolation of a particular facet of the
personality. It is a portrait of a young priest. Is he crafty?
Will he be a bishop? Will he be a savior of souls? Does
he know? Does he believe? I love painting jet blacks
against a brilliant red.

WINTER 1966

 

Baroque Nocturne

Painted from sketches and observations while painting in

Mexico. The night transforms the baroque churches into

marvelous, mysterious, shimmering patterns of color. All

harsh reality is lost as the buildings unfold into a
brooding poetry.

My

Library of Washington and Lee University
F

Entombment

An entombment of a body within atom

blasted forms floating in space. The figures

are simplified to suggest spirits. How does

Christianity rationalize atomic destruction?

Is God Dead? What are we that we can de-
stroy ourselves utterly?

 

i a iat

The Nail Atomic Still Life |
|
An agonizing use of flowing line suggesting fragmenicd A still life of atomic blasted forms floating in space. Not
shapes. The nail of the cross impaled in blasted forms a nice picture, as blood is staining the fragment. The @
from an atomic holocaust. Humanity torn by man’s forms are imaginary, yet are real as they exist in space,
scientific power. Not a painting of something, but a and so I suppose this would be in the area of abstract
painting to evoke anxiety and concern. surrealism.

 

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

“9

6

Lg

as

WINTE

nO

 

Crucifix

This figure was made with ground lava stone mixed with
plastic over a wire papier mache armature. The over-
sized handmade nails were found on the ground in an old
shipyard in Irvington, Va. The cross was made from 4
pound net pole that washed up on the Chesapeake
shore and has a slight patina of the copper paint. Perhaps
the choice of fishermen for several of Christ’s disciples had
some influence on me in choosing these materials.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

The Red Sail

Purely a lyric poem.

Patmos Landscape

Painted while spending a summer in Greece.
Patmos, the island where St. John ts believed
to have written, is a beautiful place where
rocky cliffs meet the sea. The magic air af
Greece, the ever present legend of St. John,
and dramatic changes of land and sea make
this a wonderful place for the painter.

 

WINTr .
INTER 1966

 

21

The
Artist- T eacher
Talks About
His Approach
To Mis Work

Why did you decide to have a retrospective showing
this year?

“Well, this year rounded out thirty years of paint-
ing and I thought the show would help me see if any-
thing had happened, and see a possible future direc-
tion.”

Did you see anything?

“Yes. I saw the ten paintings—between each one
shown—that did not get painted. I also saw the direc-
tion I was looking for.”

Why did these paintings not get painted?

“Do I have to be that honest? Possibly because at
times I was lazy. But teaching is demanding of time
and nervous energy, all of which could go into creative
work.”

Does this mean you have not liked teaching?

“No. Teaching, especially at Washington and Lee,
has been very satisfying. To see a department grow
from fewer than fifty students to a point where we
now have nearly one-third of the student body taking
art courses—this is exciting. There is also the joy of
watching the progress of the more than two score
students who have gone on to graduate school and to
responsible positions in education or creative work.”

What is the chief drawback to the artist as a part of
the college world?”

“Possibly the matter of continuity in his work,
There cannot be the even flow of ideas from one paint-
ing to the next that the full time painter can enjoy.

Is there any compensation for this?

“Ves, I think the artist on a college staff can af-
ford to be less competitive and spend his time delving

into experiments that would not be possible if he

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

had to conlorm to, or keep up with, the current
modes.”

Can you say something about your painting?

“I can try, but what I say may be silly. A painter
works with both ideas and feelings. Sometimes he is
angry, Sometimes amusing, and may even attempt the
beautiful. In my case I am sure there is much anxiety—
especially in the religious work of the past ten years. |
think I have asked more questions through paintings
than I have been able to answer. The atomic age
with its ethical, social, and religious problems, and
conflicts, presents me every day with emotions and
feelings and wonders that cannot be answered. But
we can still ask the question. As someone said, ‘What is
the answer?’ and ‘What is the question?’ was the re-

ply?”

some of your paintings, you have said, are ugly.
Why did you paint them and what will you do with

them?

“I painted them because I had to. As to what will
happen to them I do not know. Perhaps someone will
collect Junkins someday—like old spinning wheels are

collected.”

Vo get back to an earlier answer you gave. Did you
see a new direction for your work and if so what was
ul?

“It was a surprise to me. I don’t like to be too
positive, but you see in the studio everything is a
mess—paintings done fifteen years ago next to those
that are new. Seeing the work in consecutive order
clarified things, and I believe I will work more toward
a sort of abstract surrealism. The freedom in the choice
of symbolism possible in this direction is interesting.”

How do you feel about the recent directions in
American art?

“This is a very broad question and covers a large
varicty of expression. I think Abstract Expressionism
Was, and is, an extremely valid and personal expressive
movement. For the first time the artist has been able to
work completely with formal relationships, something
the musician has been able to do for some time. The
painter's inner emotions could be expressed in pure
color, texture, and line without the Slavery of sub-
ject matter. However, the change to Op art, especial-
ly in sculpture, has to be a very impersonal state-
ment. Both in painting and sculpture the Op artist can
rely on the machine for the execution of the work.
Perhaps our world has become that impersonal. I do
not know.”

How many really good paintings do you hope to
paint in the next few years?
~One.”’

WINTER 1966

 

 

News

of the

 

DEAN FRANK J. GILLIAM presents debate team captains WILLIAM D. CANNON, JR., Of Cul-
peper, Va., and Davin N. Marcuese of Fairfield, Conn., with a silver trophy to honor
future oulstanding debaters.

University

New Trophy for Debate Team

Honors Former Champions

= A HANDSOME silver cup more than
100 years old henceforth will honor
the outstanding debater each year
at Washington and Lee.

The cup, made of Shefheld silver
has been donated by Dean Frank J.
Gilliam, former Dean of Students
and Director of Admissions. ‘The
cup has been in the Gilliam family
lor more than 40 years.

The trophy will be known as the
Noell-Eckes ‘Trophy in honor of
two recent Washington and Lee
eraduates who carried the univer-
sity to the national debate cham-
pionships in 1963—William = A.
Noell, Jr. of Bluefield, W. Va., and
Alfred Eckes, Jr. of Ardmore, Pa.
Both were graduated from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1964 and are

now doing graduate study, Noell
at the University of Virginia and
Eckes at ‘Tults University.

Debate teams have always done
well at Washington and Lee, es-
Prof. William W.
Chaffin took over as coach in 1960.

pecially since
Chaffin’s philosophy is that it is
better to participate than to win,
though naturally he likes for his
teams to be victorious. Uhus, from
early fall to late spring, Chafhn-
coached teams are participating in
debate tournaments almost every
weekend.

This year’s debaters posted one
string of 10 consecutive winning
records in collegiate meets. ‘To date
they have won 14 trophies and 12
certificates.

Undergraduate
Financial Help
At Record Level
During 1965-66

@ THE AMOUNT Of financial aid
Washington and Lee awards under-
graduates has reached a_ record
$249,750, an increase of 15 per cent
over last year.

Dean Lewis G. John, director of
student financial aid, reports that
260 students are receiving that
amount. In addition, another 37
students in the Washington and
Lee School of Law are receiving a
total of $24,915.

This is the highest amount the
university has awarded since it be-
gan an expanded financial program
five years ago. Lhe program's pur-
pose is to make the opportunity for
a Washington and Lee education
available to all qualified high
school students, regardless of in-
dividual financial circumstances.

By comparison, the university
awarded $44,970 in the 1954-55 aca-
demic year. In 1960-61, the first
vear of the new program, $154,119
was awarded to 200 students.

‘The aid takes the form of grants,
loans and jobs, with some a com-
bination of one or more. Most of
the recipients are under the grant-
loan program. The highest award,
a combination scholarship and job,
is $2,500 this year. Scholarship
grants range [rom 5100 to $2,000.

While the aid this year has in-
creased 15 per cent overall, the as-
sistance to freshmen is up more
than 35 per cent, Dean John re-
ports. Seventy-six of the 347 enter-
ing freshmen were awarded $87,-
OOO.

Rising tuition continues to
make student financial aid an item
of highest priority.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Harold S. Head
Will Succeed
Edwin Howard

As Registrar

s THE APPOINTMENT of Lt. Ceol.
Harold S.
University registrar was announced

Head of Lexington as

in February by President Cole.

Colonel Head, currently associ-
ate professor of military science and
assistant commandant at Virginia
Military Institute, will succeed Ed-
win H. Howard, ’24, who will re-
tire in June after 42 years as a
member of Washington and Lee’s
faculty and administrative staff.

Colonel Head’s retirement from
active service in the United States
Army is effective June 30, and he
will assume his new duties at
Washington and Lee on July 1,
1g66.

\ West
Head’s active military career be-

Point graduate, Col.
gan in 1943 following completion
of the B. S. program at the military
academy. He saw combat service
both in World War II and in Ko-
rea. He is a graduate of the Infan-
try School of Ft. Benning, Ga.,
where he also was an instructor
and assistant director of instruc-
tion, and he is a graduate of the
Command and General Staff Col-
lege at Ft. Leavenworth, Kan. He
Was an instructor in social scienc-
es at West Point from 1947 to 1949.

Colonel Head holds an A.M. de-
gree trom Harvard University and
he is a graduate of the Army Lan-
guage School where he studied Jap-
anese in preparation for duty as
Stall officer to the Military Assis-
tance Advisory Group in Japan
rom 1959 to 1962. In 1962 he
joined the military staff at VMI
Where he has been responsible for

planning, administration,

WINTER 1966

Epwin H. HOowarp, ‘24

instruction and counseling for ca-
dets participating in the Army
ROTC program.

Colonel Head is 46, married, and
the father of three children. ‘Iwo
sons are students at Washington
and Lee, one a senior and the oth-
er a freshman. Colonel Head is a
native of Maryland and attended
secondary school at Manila, P.L.,
high school and Stanton Prepara-
tory Academy at Cornwall, N. Y.

Mr. Howard, 64, is a 1924 honor
graduate of Washington and Lee

 

HaArRoLp S. HEeApD

who joined the University’s faculty
after receiving a B.S. in commerce.
He also holds the M.S. degree in
business from Columbia Univer-
sity.

Mr. Howard became registrar of
the University in 1953.

During World War II, Mr. How-
ard served in the Office of Price
Administration. He is a member of
Phi Beta Kappa, Beta Gamma Sig-
ma, and Alpha Kappa Psi fraterni-
ties, and he is a Mason. He also is
a Maryland native.

American and Gulf Companies,

duPont Company Assist University

es The American Oil Foundation,
the Gulf Oil Corporation, and the
duPont Company have made gilts
to Washington and Lee that will
help the University to improve its
libraries and to improve its science
teaching.

An unrestricted grant of $5,000
from the American Oil Foundation
will be used to increase the re-
sources of the library system, Pres-
ident Cole said.

An unrestricted grant of $1,000
was received from the Gulf Oil Cor-
poration, but it was not earmarked
for special use by the President in
his announcement of the gift.

The duPont Company’s gift of
$5,000 was designated for use by
the Department of Chemistry in the
amount of $2,500, with the remain-
der to be used in support of sub-
jects important in the study of
science and engineering.

255

Twelve Professors Will Share
In Glenn Grant Funds for Research

® TWELVE Washington and _ Lee
University professors will receive
grants this year totaling $4,709 to
further their study and research.

The awards, supported by the
university’s John M. Glenn Fund,
are offered each year to encourage
faculty scholarship and to increase
teaching effectiveness. Established
in 1953, the program is endowed by
a $120,000 gift from the late John
M. Glenn who was an official of the
Russell Sage Foundation and an
1879 graduate of Washington and
Lee.

Most of the professors receiving
the grants will conduct their re-
search during the summer, but they
have until Dec. 1 to complete their
projects. Last year 18 Washington
and Lee faculty members received
a total of $7,020 under the Glenn
program.

The 1966 recipients, their aca-
demic departments, and projects:

Dr. Jay D. Cook, accounting, to
collect data on the financial struc-
ture and earnings of business corp-
orations in the chemical industry

lor the purpose of determining the
effect of the capital structure of
individual firms on their cost of
capital.

Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, Eng-
lish, to prepare several chapters of
a projected book to be entitled
“Matthew Arnold and His Critics.”

David B. Dickens, German, to
pursue research in the library and
archives of the Freies Deutsches
Hochstift (Goethe Museum) at
Frankfurt am Main, Germany; to
travel in East Germany, visiting
regions, cities, museums, and mon-
uments of general cultural and spe-
cific literary significance.

Dr. Lyman Randlett Emmons,
biology, to continue research on
amphibian cytogenetics.

Inslee E. Grainger, romance lan-
guages, to continue work on his
Ph.D. at the University of North
Carolina.

Dr. Emory Kimbrough, Jr., soci-
ology, to work at the University of
North Carolina on a_ research
monograph on the degree and kind
of involvement by top business ex-

ecutives in various community ac-
tivities and associations.

Dr. Samuel J. Kozak, geology, to
support an investigation of the
chemistry and mineralogy of igne-
ous rocks with particular emphasis
on New England intrusives.

George W. Ray III, English, to
prepare the typescript for publica-
tion of the volume of
George Chapman’s “The Conspir-
acy and ‘Tragedy of Byron.”

Robert Stewart, music, for as-
sistance in the preparation of mu-
sical scores, instrumental and yo-
cal parts, and production instruc
tions for an original opera, “The
Curl.”

Dabney Stuart, English, to com-
plete a book-length poem to be en-
titled “Fair.”

Dr. Charles Turner, history, to
attend a summer institute on China
in ‘Taiwan sponsored by the Ful-
bright-Hays Act.

Dr. John C. Winfrey, economics,
for research and editing in antici-
pation of authoring a public fi-
nance textbook.

second

John M. Lewis of Martinsville, Va., Is Valedictorian

& JOHN MERIWETHER LEWIS, a sen-
ior majoring in German, has been
named valedictorian of the 1966
graduating class. A Martinsville
resident, he was selected by the uni-
versity’s faculty as the senior de-
gree candidate with the highest
cumulative academic average at the
end of the first semester of the cur-
rent session.

Lewis achieved a 2.686 grade
point average on a scale where 3.0
would be a straight “A” perform-
ance. He had 26 “A’s,” 13 “‘B’s,”
and no grade lower than “B,.” As

2

 

Joun M. Lewis

deliver
the traditional student address at

valedictorian, Lewis will
Washington and Lee commence-

ment exercises June 3.

Lewis recently was named to re-
Wilson Fellow-
ship for graduate study toward a

ceive a Woodrow
career in college teaching. An hon-

or roll student and member of
Lambda Chi Alpha social fraterni-
ty at Washington and Lee, he is the
son of Dr. and Mrs. C. I. Lewis of
Martinsville and is a graduate of

Martinsville High School.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A New Filmstrip
Will Aid Efforts

fo Recruit Students

s A 17-MINUTE color filmstrip out-
lining all aspects of life at Wash-
ington and Lee has been distribut-
cd to more than 300 secondary
school superintendents and guid-
wc othcers.

[he 35mm filmstrip, with ac-
companying sound narration, has
been placed on permanent loan in
ig2 secondary school guidance of-
tices and with all 129 superintend-
nts of schools in Virginia. It was
produced for the university by
(;uidance Associates of Pleasant-
ville, N. Y.

{he program outlines to  pros-
pective students the qualifications
for admission, financial aid avail-
able, courses and degrees offered,
Washington and Lee’s history and
traditions such as the Honor Sys-
tem, sports, social and extracurricu-
lar activities.

CLARENCE J]. BROWN, JR.,

he Law School at a ceremony honoring the memory of his father. A
plaque given by the Clarence J. Brown Law School Young Republicans
Club was dedicated at the January ceremony, shortly after the organiza-
ion added the late Congressman’s name to its title. The younger
bROWN was selected to complete his father’s unexpired term in Con-
ress. Listening jn the background are Law School DEAN CHARLEs P.
Licut, ]R., and friends and relatives of Mr. Brown.

he

WINTER 1966

son of the late CLARENCI J]. Brown, ‘16L, of
Blanchester, Ohio, a veteran member of the U.

Three Seniors Are Selected

As Woodrow Wilson Scholars
Lo Prepare Teaching Careers

# THREE Washington and Lee Uni-
versity seniors—all Virginians—have
Wilson
Fellowships for graduate study.
The three—William H. Gilbert
of Stony Creek, John M. Lewis of
Martinsville and John C. Moore of

been awarded Woodrow

Richmond—were among 1,408 re-
cipients named by the Woodrow
Wilson National Fellowship Foun-
dation. ‘he fellowships are design-
ed to recruit new college teachers.
Woodrow Wilson Fellows receive
one academic year of graduate ed-
ucation, with tuition and fees paid
by the Foundation, plus a living
stipend of $2,000 and allowances
lor dependent children. The grad-
uate school they choose also re-

   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

S. Congress, speaks in

ceives a Foundation grant. Using
funds provided by the Ford Foun-
dation, the fellowship foundation
will spend $5.7 million in 1966-67
to encourage and support potential
college teachers.

Gilbert is an English major. Lew-
is, a German major, is an honor
roll student and the 1966 Valedic-
torian. Moore, also a German ma-
jor, is an honor roll student, a
Robert E. Lee Research scholar,
served as president of the sopho-
more class and of the University
Christian Association, is a dormi-
tory counselor, a member of the
varsity basketball team and Omi-

cron Delta Kappa honorary leader-
ship society.

 
  
 

‘The Big Snow

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

meer *

hor more on the Bie Snow of ‘06, please lurn the page
‘ + °
WINT} R 1gb66

29

hh
:

‘sa.
eet

| » for , - icicles. A brilliant
Freezing weather and warm roojlops made for spectac ular icicles. A brill
the campus with dark shadows.

sae
~ , ,
'» “os i if

lead Y—/

es

'
4
*
°
>
S
o-
Py
:
we
-

—
-
-
ed
=
=
~—_*
a Wi

AS at

:

a

 

day followed the snowfall and laced

 

. + er’ a
ee ae .
Oe el

i hehees

 

 

rHE ALUMNI ™M AGAZINE

 

 

Snow for ancy Dress has become tra-
ditional. This time it marooned many
dates in Lexington. They mushed to
class with students, as snow plows
cleared campus walks of a nearly two-

foot accumulation.

 

 

Archie E. Mathis
Chosen for Wrestling
Hall of Fame

ORMER WASHINGTON and Lee

University wrestling coach
Archie E. Mathis, whose teams from
1925 to 1942 dominated southern
college competition, has been
named to the Helms Athletic Foun-
dation Amateur Wrestling Hall of
Fame.

Mathis was one of two Virginia
coaches honored March 26 at the
University of Iowa, site of the 1966
NCAA wrestling championships.
William Martin, head coach of
Granby High School in Norfolk,
was the other new member from
the Old Dominion. Four wrestlers
and three coaches were honored by
the Helms Foundation this year.

Mathis, who died in 1945, joined
the W&L staff in the same year he
was graduated from the University
of Illinois after a brilliant collegi-
ate wrestling career. Under Math-
is’ leadership, the Generals ruled
\virtually supreme over southern
colleges and universities, but also
put their record on the line against
schools which had __ established
themselves as powers in other re-
gions.

In all, the 17-year Mathis coach-
ing span produced nine undefeat-
ed teams, 14 Winning seasons, one
break-even year, and only two los-
ing campaigns. From 1929 until
his last year at W&L, Mathis’ wrest-
lers never experienced a losing sea-

979°
aa

mee

 

Coacuw ArcHiE MATHIS

son, winning 72 of 80 matches, in-
cluding one tie.

Of the 22 different intercollegiate
teams engaged by Mathis-coached
squads, only five schools managed
to beat the Generals more often
than they lost, while 11 teams never
won or tied against W&L. Among
the stronger teams W&L faced dur-
ing that time were Franklin & Mar-
shall, Michigan, Michigan State,
Northwestern, Princeton, Army,
Navy, Kansas State, and Illinois.
From 1930 until 1932, W&L defeat-
ed Army in consecutive meetings.

Mathis, a pioneer in the intro-
duction and promotion of high
school and collegiate wrestling in

the South, helped inaugurate the
first Southern Conterence wrestling
tournament in 1930. His teams won
four of the first eight league tour-
neys, finished second twice, and
third twice.

The Generals, by virtue of their
undefeated record, laid claim to the
Southern Conterence title in five
other years when no tournament
was held. As much as Mathis did to
promote wrestling among conter-
ence schools, his excellent teams
dominated the sport to such an ex-
tent that in several years no tour-
ney was held for lack ot chal-
lengers.

Through the reputation of his
wrestling teams and because of his
personal efforts, Mathis was able to
persuade the NCAA to hold its na-
tional championships at W&L in
1936, the first and last time the
NCAA finals were ever held in the
South. An added feature of the
event was the conduct olf semi-
final trials for the Olympic Games
scheduled later that year in Ber-
lin, Germany.

An interesting sidelight of the
NCAA affair was the fastest fall
ever scored in the championships
under Olympic rules. Harley Strong
of Oklahoma A&M _ pinned John
Hamilton of St. Lawrence in 5.5
seconds of the first period.

In 1942, Mathis joined the U.S.
Navy and, after three years of ser-
vice, was discharged. He returned
to the University of Illinois imme-
diately to join the physical educa-
tion staff, and died a short time lat-
er.

Mathis is one of seven men chos-
en for the Hall of Fame this year
and joins a roster of 86 wrestlers,
coaches, and contributors to the
sport already honored.

Dick Miller, W&L’s’ current
wrestling coach, accepted the award
at the University of lowa ceremon-
ies.

It was Miller and Athletic Direct-
or E. P. “Cy” Twombly who mar-
shalled a tremendous accumulation

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

“He made men of us boys. He was an inspiration
and a Challenge and the results of his work is evident
in nol only the records his teams produced, but in the
men. L personally shall be forever grateful for the ex-
yericnce Of working and training under him and for
the great help he gave me in finding myself, building
up mn mind as well as my body, and the interest he
had in me as a person.”

—Dr. Martin Z. Kaplan, ’36, M.D.
Louisville, Ky.

 

Four who won Southern Conference champion-
ships for Coach MAruis in 1941. Kneeling, I-r,
CAPT, TOM FULLER and SAM GRAHAM; standing

l-r, LILLARD AILoR and Bup Ross.

“As Captain of Washington and Lee wrestling back
in the rogo’s IT can remember vividly Archie’s devo-
tion to the sport and his ability to develop great teams
from boys who had never wrestled before coming
to Wel. To my way of thinking, this is the touch-
stone of a great coach: to teach and inspire raw re-
cruits so that they become conference champions with-

in the short span allotted. —C. T. “Tom” Fuller, "42

Catasaqua, Pa.

“Perhaps you should have one testimonial from
@ wrestler who had little natural ability but who was
made into a satisfactory wrestler by the driving per-
jection of a coach who turned out so many outstand-
ng teams. Coach Mathis took many of us who had no

Previous wrestling experience and who were not natur-
al athletes

and by the force of his personality and the
calibe)

his teaching made us perform beyond our
Capacities.’

Ur. Herbert Sloan, 36, Professor of Surgery

' he University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.

WINTER LOQvohH

of records and statistics and a host
of testimonials in Mathis’ behalf
to support his nomination to the
Hall of Fame.

Dozens of letters were received
lrom Washington and Lee men
who wrestled under Coach Mathis,
as well as many others from men
who were his colleagues in the
coaching profession. The portrait
these testimonials help paint for
the Helms selection committee was
one of an outstanding coach who
developed champions from the
greenest of material, a man who
contributed to the development ol
individual character and purpose
as well as to the development of
athletic ability.

The chairman of the committee.
Jess Hoke, editor of the Amatew
Wrestling News, called the Mathis

portfolio a “magnificent presenta-

tion.”

The Helms committee’s simul-
taneous selection of Coach Wil-
liam Martin of Norfolk’s Granby
High School was particularly ap-
propriate, for he and Coach Math-
is were friends and coaching as-
sociates at a time when wrestling
was unestablished as a high school
sport in Virginia.

Coach Sam G. Barnes, head
wrestling coach at the University
of North Carolina, wrote to the
Helms Foundation:

“It was Archie Mathis who, when
there was not a single high school
team in Virginia, joined with me in
scheduling our freshman teams
against a group of schoolboys from
Norfolk YMCA coached by Bill
Martin. From that encouragement,
Granby High School took up the
sport and today Virginia has over
100 high school teams.”’

Martin went on to become coach
at Granby in 1945, and since then,
his teams have won more than 200
dual meets, lost only six, tied two,
and produced seventy-five college
wrestlers, including five NCAA
champions.

Do

Brighter Prospects
For General Cagers

Like Freshman Standout Rob Bauer Below,
The Generals ‘Took It on the Chin More

Often Than ‘They Liked ‘This Season, But

Signs of Improvement Are Definitely ‘There

 

34

HERE WERE times when it still

looked more like a Chinese fire
drill than college basketball, but
the signs of improvement were un-
mistakably there. The 1965-66 Gen-
erals were 10-15 lor the year, and
compared to last season’s 2-17
mark, that’s 500 per cent better
in the win column.

Looking at it another way, those
ten victories are the most turned
in by a Washington and Lee team
since that big year in 1957-58 when
Lee Marshall and Dom Flora led
the Generals to their winningest
season ever, 21-7, and a runner-up
finish in the Southern Conference.

‘There are no Marshalls or Floras
among the current Generals, but
there are some players who could
make distinctive marks in the W&L
record books.

Rob Bauer, a handsome 6-2 fresh-
man from Pensacola, led the team
in scoring with a 15.3 average, the
best mark by a first-year man since
Flora broke in with a 19.1 average
IN 1954-55. Junior Frank Morrison
followed with 12.6 a game, al-
though he was hampered by in-
juries much of the season.

Two other freshmen—backcourt
man John Carrere and 6-5 center
Earl Edwards—pertormed well, Car-
rere as a starter averaging 9.4
points a contest, and Edwards as a
backup man for Captain Bob Spes-
sard, one of only two seniors on
the squad.

Spessard had his finest year this
winter. He was the team’s leading
rebounder and he chipped in on
the Generals’ balanced attack with
a g.5 average. Spessard was a stead-
ier player than ever before, and on
several occasions his clutch shoot-
ing brought the victory.

The other senior, Steve Sweitzer,
was off and on most of the year, but
he finished strongly with a series of
fine displays in the College Ath-
letic Conference tournament at
Centre College. In this tourney, the
Generals beat Southwestern, lost

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

_—

eventual hampion, Se-

the or
a 1 then dropped a closely-

> ¢ ¢
-anee, aD | Fi
- isolation battle to Cen-

fought col | ti
q four-point margin.

re by  iealeeeatae
ll college level of basketball
silk ‘

that runs the full range of quality.

Most tears

ame,
shoot game, and wi ‘dhe
ack in discipline and finesse

emphasize a run and
and what their players

may | - ae
they often make up In speed and

shooting accuracy.
Virginia's best small college team
andoph-Macon. In their one

was R | :
with the Yellowjackets,

encounter
the Generals played unusually well
before bowing by 77-73-

Lynchburg College
vear but one of the country’s hot-

had a so-so

test shooters in 25-year-old Wayne
Proffitt, a Lynchburg high school
reammate of Rodger Fauber who
was outstanding for the Generals
Profhitt av-
eraged over 30 points a game for
the season, and broke W&L’s Jay
Handlan’s 15-year-old state scoring
mark of 66 points by scoring 68
against North Carolina of Char-

several seasons back.

lotte. But in two of his team’s losses
to WK&L, he was held to season lows
of 14 and 17 points.

It all pointed up the fact that the
Generals are coming back in bas-
ketball. Head Coach Verne Can-
held has taken some important
giant steps toward recovery of bas-
Ketball respectability in Doremus
Gymnasium, and barring unfore-
seen losses, he should start just
about the same team next year. He
feels that extra year of experience
will bring more improvement.

There will still be disappoint-
ments, though. Like the night the
Generals blew a home game against
North Carolina of Charlotte with
one of the worst
ever. Canfield.

demonstrations
his chin on his chest,
didn’t move out of his chair at the
= of the bench for a full twenty
minutes after that one. But the

(> °
€nerals came back to win a half-

d ;
zen more Sames, and at season’s
end Canfie

* ld was generally pleased
Hot completely satisfied.

WINTER 1966

Washington and Lee’s Wrestlers
Do Well Individually, But Suffer

First Losing Season in Seven Years

@ COACH DICK MILLER’S wrestling
forty-six individual
matches while losing thirty-seven,
but still wound up with a 4-5 rec-
ord, the Generals’ first losing sea-
son in seven years.

Senior —_co-captains Kemble
White, Martinsburg, W. Va., and
Jamie Andrew, Baltimore Md.,
turned in 5-2 and 6-2-1 records, re-
spectively, to lead W&L to wins ov-
er West Virginia, RPI, William
and Mary, and Loyola. Overall
team experience proved to be the
deciding factor in losses to North
Carolina, North Carolina State,
Duke, Old Dominion, and Virgin-
la.

tcCam won

White, who competed at the 137-
pound class, finished his four-year
career with a 18-10-1 record, while
Andrew (160) was 16-14-2 for the
same span. Both will receive the
Archie E. Mathis Memorial Wrest-
ling Award at the University’s an-
nual sports barbeque this May.

Rounding out the starting team
were Jim Bruton (130), Bob Payne
(137, 145), Holmes Raker (hwt.),
Warren Stewart (191), Jay Clarke
(177), Bob Munson (167), Charlie
Slaughter (152), Rolly Jacobs (123),
and Don Patterson (146).

Stewart and Patterson will co-
captain next year’s squad.

Youthtul General Swimmers Splash
To New Records and Twenty-Third
Consecutive Winning Team Effort

# BEHIND the record-breaking per-
formances of freshman Billy Ball,
sophomore Nelson Head, junior
Bill Wildrick, Parker
Moore, junior Bart ‘Taylor, and

freshman

sophomore Ned Lawrence, head
coach Norris Eastman’s swimming
team has completed another win-
ning season, this time with an 8-3
record in dual competition.

It was the 23rd consecutive year
that W&L swimmers finished a win-
ning year and it was done in a man-
ner that saw at least one pool or
school record broken for each meet
scheduled. In the end, only two
standards totally escaped the 1965-
66 Generals’ assault—the 100- and
200-yd. breaststroke.

Ball set records in the 200-yd.

backstroke and go0-yd. individual
medley, Head in the g00-yd. back-
stroke, Wildrick in the 200-yd. free-
style and 200-yd. butterfly, Moore
in the 50-yd. freestyle, Taylor in
the 100-yd. freestyle, and Lawrence
in the 500-yd. freestyle.

Head’s mark was set at the VMI
pool where the first College Ath-
letic Conference swimming tourney
was held Feb. 25-26. Sewanee won
the affair with 173 points, followed
by W&L with 148 and Washington
University of St. Louis with 83.

During the regular season, the
Generals took wins over Roanoke,

Gettysburg, Randolph-Macon, West

Virginia, Wake Forest, Old Domin-
ion, Loyola, and Georgetown. Los-
ses were to Catholic, East Carolina,
and American University.

35

The 1965-66 Alumni Fund: A Report

HH ARE SOME FACTS about the
progress of the — 1965-66

Alumni Fund that
interest to every alumnus ol Wash-

should be ol
ington and Lee University.

—The goal for 1965-66 is a rec-
ord-breaking nearly a
quarter of a million dollars. In
terms of endowment equivalent,

5225,000,

this sum represents the approxi-
mate return on an additional en-

help raise this sum for use by the
University in meeting its yearly op-
ecrational expenses.

—As of April

5, 1966, a total

of 2,448 alumni have made con-
tributions to the current Alumi

Fund.

—Their gilts have totaled $140,-
696, or sixty-two per cent of the
goal of $225,000.

—This means that twenty-two per

—This means that many alumni
are giving far more than their fair
share of support for their Alma
Mater’s vital needs.

—This also means that a great
many other alumni are doing
nothing to help their University,

There's still time to make your
gift to the 1965-66 Alumni Fund,
The books are open until June go,
Won't you please join with those

 

 

dowment of 55,625,000. cent of those solicited have con- 2.448 alumni who = are proud
—A total of 11,194 Washington tributed nearly two-thirds of the they are Washington and Lee
and Lee men have been asked to goal sought. men?
Percentages of Class Participation, as of April 15, 1966

Per Cent | Per Cent Per Cent

Class Participating | Class Participating Class Participating
ISS6- | 1g32-A 18 1g50-L. 48
115 255 | 1g32-L 42 1g51-A 25
1g1iO-A 38 1933-A 21 1g51-L 25
igi 6-L, 52 1933-L 53 1g52-\ 25
1gu7-A 24 1g34-A 1g 1g52-L 21
1gt7-L 76 1g34q-L 28 1g53-A 20
gid 28 1Q35-\ 1g | 1g53-L 17
gig 31 1935-L 39 | 1g54-A 21
1g20-A\ 33 1Q30-A V1 1954-L 43
1g20-L, 60 1936-L 22 | LQ55-A 2.
1g21-A 38 1937-A 23 | 1g55-L 16
ig2i-L 18 1937-L 43 | 1956-A 25,
1g22-A 30 1938-A 16 | 1950-L. 18
1g22-L, 25 1935-L 59 1957-\ 23
1g23-A 25 1g39-A 29 1957-L 20
1g23-L 23 1939-L 47 1g58-A 19
1g24-A 23 1g4o-A 26 1958-L ”
1g24-L. 35 1g4o-L, 38 1959-A 28
1g25-A 18 1g4gi-A 29 1959-L. 5
1g25-L 33 1g4i-L 42 1g60-A 19
1g26-A 18 1g42-A 25 1gbo-L 20
1g26-L, 30 1g42-L 25 1gb1-A 16
1g27-A 18 1943 20 1gb1-L 28
1927-L 37 1O44 24 1gb2-A 16
1g2d5-A 21 1945 is 1gb2-L, 18
1g28-L 33 1946 26 1963-A 21
1g29-A 20 1947 23 1963-L 14
1929-L 31 1g48-A 23 1g64-A 14
1g30-A 20 1948-L 28 1964-L 9
1930-L, 48 1949-A 21 1965-A 9
1931-A 22 1949-L 21 1965-L 5
19g31-L 54 1Q50-A 21 1966, 67, °68 I

36

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Alumni House Nears Completion

Y THE TIME this is read, the
B Alumni House at Washington
and Lee will be a reality.

[he long-awaited facility was
scheduled for first use in connec-
tion with the anniversary class re-
unions to be held at the University
on the weekend of May 12-14.

On the program was a Friday al-
ternoon reception for all members
of the six returning anniversary
classes that was to mark the official
opening of the former faculty home
as a permanent alumni headquart-
ers. Other activities scheduled for
the house were informal get-togeth-
ers after a special ‘Troubadour pro-
duction Friday evening and the gen-
eral “jambore” that
class banquet on Saturday evening.

Work began on the Alumni
House last fall, and according to
the contractors, the house would
be ready for its spring debut. Car-

follows the

pets, drapes, furniture, and other
furnishings were arriving on sched-
ule, and barring unforeseen prob-
lems, the house would be ready.

The entire facility will be open
lor inspection, but only the first
floor and terrace will be in actual
use during the reunion. The second
floor is set for occupancy by the
Secretary, William C.
Washburn, and his secretarial staff
as a permanent headquarters of the
association. The heavy demand on
the staff at this time of year has
made it necessary to delay the move
of the office itself to the new build-
ing until the workload slacks off
in early summer.

Executive

A large number of returning
alumni were expected for the re-
union weekend. If fair weather pre-
vails, they would make good use of
the flagstone terrace that surrounds
the house on three sides. Furnish-
ings there will be wrought tron
chairs and_ tables equipped with
Shade umbrellas.

WINTER 1g66

Funds for the New Alumni House Are Only 50 Per Cent
Complete; Mid-South Chapter Surpasses Its $5,000 Goal

s THE ALUMNI HOUSE at Washing-
ton and Lee is far nearer comple-
tion than is the campaign to raise
the more than $100,000 needed for
its renovation and furnishing.

As of late April, a total of 1,285
alumni had contributed $54,000 as
a result of the solicitation that be-
gan late in 1965.

A few of the organized chapter
campaigns have been completed,
but the majority of the area soli-
were still in progress.
Only one chapter—the Mid-South
Chapter at
subscribed _ its

citations

Memphis—had over-

goal. Under the

leadership of chapter chairman Mil-
burn K. Noell, Jr., "51, and area
vice-chairman S. L. Kopald, Jr., '43,
the chapter has realized more than
$5,000, or nearly ten per cent of the
funds and pledges received so far.

National campaign chairman
Graham Morison, ’30, has renewed
his appeal to all alumni to help
strengthen the bond — between
alumni and their University by
helping provide this much-needed
alumni facility. He urges all alumni
to join the effort to complete the
fund campaign now.

ERRATA: The titles under the pictures of Roswert CuLLERS and SOLON PERSONS on
page 45 were inadvertently reversed in printing.

CLASS NOTES

1898

W. Ross McCain retired as chairman of
the Board of Aetna Life Insurance Co.
sixteen years ago. He is still quite active.
Mr. McCain, a native of Monticello, Ark-
ansas, began with Aetna in 1907 in For-
dyce, Arkansas. He was appointed a di-
rector of the company in 1929 and became
its tenth president in 1933, a post he held
until 1950 when he became chairman of
the Board. Mr. McCain lives in Hartford,
Connecticut,

1906

Last February oth Senaror ELIJAH COFFEr
Moore had just reached go years of age,
but he was at work as usual at the Casey
County Bank in Liberty, Kentucky. He
has been the first and only president of
the bank since 1939. Upon leaving Wash-
ington and Lee in 1906, Mr. Moore be-
came a remarkable lawyerwell-known, civ-
ic minded, enjoying a large practice. For
16 vears he was a state senator and ma-
jority floor leader for more than one term.

At go Senator Moore remains a citizen,
active in every way, who “earns his keep.”

1907

Cot. HENRY WILLARD MILLER is the author
of several textbooks which have been
widely used and also of books on military
subjects. Recently Col. Miller sent a num-
ber of his books for use in the Washing-
ton and Lee Library. These include a
textbook of descriptive geomentry, vol-
umes on the use of railway artillery, a
volume entitled American Coast Artillery
Materiel and prepared in the Office of
the Chief of Ordnance, and a book called
The Paris Gun, which concerns the bom-
bardment of Paris by the German long-
range guns in 1918. Col. Miller makes his
home in Ann Arbor, Michigan, where he
served as Professor of Engineering at the
University of Michigan.

1910

Co... Joun Hettums Tucker, JR., who
has received national and international

37

recognition for his work as a member of
the legal profession, was honored recently
at a reception and dinner given by the
Shreveport Bar Association. This honor
came to Col. Tucker for his work with
the Louisiana Law Institute which he has
served a spresident since its organization
in 1938 until this year when he was elect-
ed its chairman. Col Tucker has received
many previous awards and outstanding
appointments in recognition of his legal
services rendered in the administration of
justice and for his military duties since
1916: Louisiana’s representative at the
International Week of Law in Paris,
France; visiting lecturer at Tulane Uni-
versity; member of Supreme Court Com-
mittee on Professional Ethics and Greiv-
ances; French Leigon of Honor; honorary
counsel for the French Government; dec-
orated by the government of North Rus-
sia; Army Commendation Ribbon in 1947;
member of various committees of the
Louisiana State Bar; “Louisianian of the
Year” in 1968.

1912

Recalling his days with senior year class-
mate, Dr. Dickey, SAMUEL A. HONAKER
writes that he is retired but busy playing
bridge, pinochle, watching after his garden
and raising fruit. He enjoys good health.

Among the dozen or more Washington
and Lee attorneys in San Atonio, Rus-
SELL B. WINE has made an enviable record.
He has practiced in San Antonio since
igig; was U.S. Attorney from 1955 to
1961. He also is president of the Federal
Bar Association of the San Antonio chap-
ter.

1913

A practicing attorney and county judge
for many years, SAMUEL W. Mayrussy of
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, is now retired.
He enjoys good health and remains ac-

tive,
1915

Dr. LemMuet NeLson BELL, surgeon, mis-
sionary, editor, was honored November 5
in Montreat, North Carolina, for his life
of service to his fellowmen and to his
church. He was honored at a dinner at-
tended by more than 300 persons sponsor-
ed by Christian businessmen and church
leaders from the Southeast. Four speakers,
each of whom was familiar with Dr. Bell
in one of his capacities, gave excerpts from
his life. The speakers were C. Darby Ful-
ton, executive secretary to the Board of
World Missions of the Presbyterian
Church; Mr. James A. Jones, chairman of
the Board of World Missions; Dr. Josuha
I’. B. Camblos, Asheville surgeon; and Mr.
J. Howard Pew, chairman of the board of
Sun Oil Co. and a trustee of Grove City
(Pa.) College. Mrs. Bell was given many
accolades for her work with her husband.

1916
E. B. Suuttz, who retired a few years ago

38

 

Dr. LEMUEL N. BELL, ‘15

ago as director of labor relations, Tennes-
see Valley Authority in Knoxville, is now
director of a branch of COMET in East
Tennessee. COMET, meaning Citizens’
Organization Manpower Extension Train-
ing, is an organization to help trainees to
get and hold productive jobs. COMET is
already training and placing men in jobs

in East Tennessee.
1917

After leaving Washington and Lee, Rus-
SELL H. JOHNSON completed engineering
school and has spent most of his life in
engineering and construction work, main-
ly in Omaha, Nebraska. He has a grown
son and daughter and is now retired, liv-
ing in Wahoo, Nebraska.

Dr. R. GLENN Craic is Emeritus Clinical
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology at
the University of California, a post held

since 1963.
1918

JAmMes L. Howe, Jr., though retired, is
quite busy. Not only is he a leader in
his church in Philadelphia but is inter-
ested to a large degree in the Chinese
Christian Church in the Chinatown Sec-

tion of Philadelphia.
1920

For the past six years Epwarp G. BAILEY
has ben making real estate appraisals
and writes that it keeps him just busy
enough. He still finds time to go quail
and duck hunting.

Hotmes Rotsron of Richmond, Virginia,
has published, through John Knox Press,
a book of sermons entitled “The ‘We
Knows’ of the Apostle Paul.”

1921

A meeting of alumni in Brownsville,

‘Tennessee, was of special interest this
year. For several years now the relatively
few Washington and Lee alumni in
Brownsville have made it a practice of
joining together for luncheon in celebra-
tion of General Lee’s birthday, January
igth. This year four mem joined to-
gether in this celebration and to make
witness of their Washington and Lee her-
itage. MorTON FELSENTHAL, ‘21, JUDGE
Joun T. Gray, ‘11, H. D. STERNBERGER,
‘14, and ALex H. Gray, ’19, continued this
practice in this special centennial year
celebration.

Dr. DANIEL BLAIN is finishing his year as
president of the American Psychiatric
Asociation. He is a free lance consultant
in social psychiatry and is currently en-
gaged in organizing the counties of the
Western Hemisphere in communications
and mutual assistance in psychiatric
health.

Harry B. Burr has been named Oklaho-
ma’s 1965 man-of-the-year for the dairy
industry. Mr. Burt, a Tulsan, is the orig-
inator of ice cream-on-a-stick and_ is
praised as an innovator of profitable
ideas for dairy confections and new meth-
ods and the developer of automatic ma-
chinery for making special ice cream con-
fections. He originated not only the idea
of ice cream with a handy handle, but
also the “Flaming Snowball,” “Malt-A-
Plenty,” “Drink-A-Plenty,” and other con-
fections. He is a past president of the Na-
tional Ice Cream Retail Association and
the Southern Association of Ice Cream
Manufacturers,

1922

James A. CrRAwrorp has retired from the
position of executive vice-president of the
Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville,
Florida. Mr. Crowford has been with the
bank since 1922 and has served in var-
ious capacities during the years. His career
in banking has been brilliant, and as an
expert in the field of investments, he has
acted on many advisory councils for the
Kederal Government as well as state and
municipal governments. Mr. Crowford
will continue as a director of the bank
as well as one of the affiliated banks in
Jacksonville, the Westside Atlantic Bank.

CHARLES VAN SWEARINGEN is retired from
from the United States Postal Service and
lives in Frederick, Maryland.

1923

Having retired from Sinclair Refining
Company after thirty-nine years in its
legal department, Rocer B. Jones has
become counsel to the law firm of Me-
Kay, McKay, Black & Walker in Colum-
bia, South Carolina.

Metvitte I, Dunn, the former Senior
Vice President of The Chesapeake and
Ohio Railway Company, has retired from

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

service and now resides in Huntington,
West Virginia.

(he Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Com-
pany announced that A. H. Harriss, JR.,
has retired from active service with the
company, effective this January. Mr. Har-
riss gave the company more than forty-
four years of layal and efficient service and
retired as Chieg Engineer Communication.

1924

[sapoRE Pizttz who has been with Pizitz, a
large department store in Birmingham,
\labama, since 1924 and president since
i936, has been named chairman of the
board and chief executive officer. Mr.
Pizitz has been active in various local
and national organizations and has serv-
ed as a director and a vice president ol
the National Retail Merchants Asociation
and on the executive Committee. Among
the many awards he has received are
citations from the U.S. Treasury Depart-
ment for his promotion of War Bonds,
from the Department of Commerce for his
work on a four-man trade missions to
ltaly, the Distinguished Service Plaque
from the National Cerebal Palsy Associa-
tion, and awards from the American Red

CTOSS.

in 1983 C. FReD CARLSON started the Mon-
arch Elevator and Machine Company.
(his merged in 1961, with The Dover
Corporation. Following this transaction,
fred joined the staff of the St. Andrews
Presbyterian College in Laurinberg, North
Carolina, as Development Associate. En-
joying his work very much, he continues
to live and work out of Greensboro,
North Carolina.

NORFLEET TURNER, Chairman of the board
of First National Bank of Memphis, Ten-
nessee, has been selected chairman of the
fifth annual Brotherhood Award Dinner
of the Memphis Round Table of the Na-
(ional Conference of Christians and Jews.
Mr. Turner has been active in numerous
community civic endeavors. He serves on
the executive committee of Southwestern
at Memphis, the Government Borrowing
Committee of the American Bankers As-
sociation and the Memphis Air Service
Commission.

1925

EDWIN W. ALEXANDER is owner of the
\lexandrer Motor Company, the Olds-
bile distributor in Beaumont, Texas.

Kospert A, FULWILER, JR., was elected
secretary of the Hercules Powder Com-
pany in January of this year. He had
been serving since 1955 as assistant gener-
al counsel for that company. From 1928
until 193g Mr. Fulwiler practiced law in
New York City and from then until 1942
in Roanoke when he became an attorney
with the office of the Alien Property
Custodian in Washington, D.C. Mr. Ful-
Wiler is a member of the Bar Association

WINTER 1966

RoBerT A, FULWILER, JR., '25

in New York, Virginia and Delaware and
is a member of the University Club of
Washington and the University Club of
Wilmington, Delaware. He is currently on
the Washington and Lee Alumni Board
of Directors. Mr. and Mrs. Fulwiler and
their son and daughter make their home
in Wilmington, Delaware.

The Downtown Kiwanis Club of Chatta-
nooga has named WILLIAM EMERSON
BrRocK, JR., its 1965 Distinguished Service
Award recipient. Mr. Brock was recently
also named one of the eight finalists
for the National Lane Bryant Awards for
Volunteer Community Service. He is pro-
gressive by nature in his many varied
business, industrial and civic interests. Mr.
Brock is chairman of the board of the
Brock Candy Company and father of Con-
gressman Bill Brock. In addition to the
candy company connection, he is president
of the Century Company, a real estate
firm, and is on the boards of the Hamil-
ton National Bank and the Provident Life
and Accident Insurance Company. His
civic and educational interests and aggres-
sive and progressive natured caused him
to be drafted onto the board of the Uni-
versity of Chattanooga a good many years
ago, and for several years he has been
chairman of the board. Still very healthy
and vigorous, Mr. Brock can be found in
the forefront of those participating in
finding solutions whenever major com-
munity problems present themselves.

1927

Eppy GILMORE, an Associated Press Cor-
respondent and a Pulitzer Prize Winner,
is at present in this country lecturing
and recently gave an address at Clinch
Valley College in Wise, Virginia. Mr. Gil-
more is with the Associated Press, London

 

Bureau, and he and his family are liv-
ing in England.

N. MAx ‘Terry, an attorney of Dover,
Delaware, was recently appointed by his
brother, Governor Charles L. Terry, Jr.,
to represent the State of Delaware on a
tour of Mexico. Aside from his law in-
terests, Mr. Terry is a trustee of the Uni-
versity of Delaware and is a member of
the board of directors of Delaware Park.

Leroy VAUGHAN GrRapby, Vice-president
and Secretary of the Home _ Insurance
Company, is supervising an expansion
program for the company in order to
broaden its health and accident facilities.
Mr. Grady is connected with the head
office of the company in New York City.

Rabat DAvin H. Wice has ben elected to
the national presidency of the Family
Service Asociation of America. This
agency is the national accrediting federa-
tion for more than goo family social serv-
ices and marriage counseling agencies
throughout North America. It was estab-
lished in 1911 and leads nation-wide ac-
tivities for more effective services to en-
able families to help themselves.

Recovering from an illness last January,
Roy G. NICHOLS is now able to drive his
automobile and to work the flower gar-
den of his hew home in Huntington, West
Virginia.

Dr. PENDLETON ‘TOMPKINS was elected
President of the Pacific Coast Fertility So-
ciety. He is a practicing gynecologist in
San Francisco,

1928

Rocer J. HALLER of Waynesboro, Virginia,
is in his thirty-eighth year with Du Pont
Company.

1929

Lewis F. Powett, JR., has been elected to
the Board of Directors of Lawyer Title
Insurance Corporation. Mr. Powell served
as President of the American Bar Asso-
ciation in 1964 and last July was appoint-
ed by President Johnson to the Presi-
dent’s Commission on Law Enforcement
and the Administration of Justice. He is
the principal author of the widely praised
ABA booklet published in 1962 under the
title, “Instruction on Communism and
[ts Contrast with Liberty Under Law.

1930

Epwarb F. PiLcey is the Assistant Division
Engineer for the U.S. Bureau of Public
Roads stationed in Balboa Heights, Canal
Zone. He is working on the inter-Ameri-
can highway that will be completed from
Panama City eastward to the border of
Costa Rica. It should be completed in
the summer of 1967 and will make driving
from the United States to Panama City
relatively easy.

9S
©

IpUs DeRRELL Fecprer, JR., was awarded the
degree of Doctor of Education in Guid-
ance and Counseling at the University
of Georgia in August, 1965. He has been
with the Fulton County Schools in At-
lanta since 1947.

GeorGE A. SPRINKLE, for many _ years
in the insurance business, has been ap-
pointed a special agent at Miami, Florida,
with the Continental Insurance Company.
George started with Continental in 1939.

1932

The minister of the First Presbyterian
Church in Leetonia, Ohio, is WILLIAM L.
WoopaLL. Reverend Woodall writes books
and stories for children. Among his works
are Devotions for Boys and Girls and
Three-Minute Devotions for Boys and
Girls.

On behalf of the Sons of Confederate Vet-
erans, the Order of the Stars and Bars,
and the Confederate High Command,
FRANK H. CUNNINGHAM welcomed the
Daughters of Confederacy to the State
Convention in Santa Monica, California.
Dr. Cunningham has a series of historical
articles in the International Press Bulle-
tin Quarterly.

WitttAM C. Knorr, JR., has been ap-
pointed Dean of the School of Engineering
at the University of Miami in Florida.

Ross L. MALone, former president of the
American Bar Association and a_practic-
ing attorney in Roswell, New Mexico, has
just been appointed a member of Presi-
dent Johnson’s Commission on Crime. OF-
fically the commission is Known as thé
Presidential Commission in Law Enforce
ment and Administration of Justice. In
addition Ross serves as a member of the
Board of Trustees of Southern Methodist
University.

ALAN S. DeLAND has been with the Se-
curity Division of the Atomic Energy
Commission for more than eighteen years.
Sixteen years he has been in Pittsburgh
as Chief, Personnel Security Branch of
the Pittsburgh Naval Reactors Office.

1933

M. Hoce CriGHTON is presently vice-presi-
dent in charge of the Southeast for the
Seaboard Surety Company. His company
will shortly enter the international bond-
ing field, and he has been selected to open
and head up an office in London, Eng-
land. He and his family have been living
in Atlanta, Georgia, but the entire fam-
ily will be moving to England in June.

1934

Foster M. PALMER is Associate University
Librarian for Reference and Circulation
at Harvard. In January, 1966, he is to
teach a two week course in library auto-

40

mation at McGill University in Montreal,
Canada.

Houmes M. Dyer has been selected as one
of 150 business executives and govern-
ment officials from the U.S. and several
foreign countries to participate in the 4gth
session of the Advanced Management Pro-
gram of the Harvard University Gradu-
ate School of Business Administration.
The 13-week course is designed to prepare
executives in top management positions
to exercise full leadership responsibility.
All participants are nominated and spon-
sored by their companies or governments
in conformance with rigorous standards
for admission.

Thomas D. ANberson, formerly with the
National Bank of Commerce in Houston,
has formed a partnership, eflective Sep-
tember 1, 1965, with Mr. Earl A. Brown,
Jr., for the practice of law. The firm, un-
der the name of Anderson and Brown, is
located in the Southwest Tower in Hous-
ton.

Because of physical disability FRANK J.
BurRKART retired December 31, 1965, as
Chief Deputy Registrar of Wills for the
District of Columbia. He has served for
thirty-one years in Federal Government
service. Mr. Burkart is also a retired col-
onel, Judge Advocate General's Corps, of
the U.S. Army Reserves.

‘THomas D. ANDERSON has been elected by
the University of Texas to the Advisory
Council of the Arts and Sciences Foun-
dation,

1935

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Harry M. Ruerr,
Jr,, a daughter, Leslie, born in Huntsville,
Alabama, on October 16, 1965.

1937

The newly elected president of the South-
ern Finance Association is C. ARNOLD
Matruews of Gainesville, Florida. He also
serves on the Board of Directors of the
Gainesville Kiwanis Club and on the Ex-
ecutive Committee of the Jacksonville
Society of Financial Analysts. The Math-
ews have two children and the family
took a trip this past summer to the
World’s Fair.

ARCHIBALD A, SprouL of Staunton has been
nominated by President Johnson for pro-
motion to major general in the National
Guard. General Sproul is now a brigadier
general and the commanding officer of
Virginia’s g9th infantry division in the
National Guard. He presented the com-
missions to R.O.T.C. seniors at com-
mencement in June, 1965. In civilian life,
General Sproul is president of the Perry-
Sproul Investment Mortgage Corp. and
executive vice president of W. J. Perry
Insurance Corp.

1938

As of July, 1965, PAUL M. MILLER entered

the Office of Congressional Relations of
the State Department in Washington.

THe Reverend Artruur L. Bice will ob-
serve the 25th anniversary of his ordina-
tion at the Emmanuel Episcopal Church
in Little Falls, New York, on December

11, 1965.
1939

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ALAN Buxton
Hosses, their fourth child and second
daughter, Elizabeth Marie, on November
28, 1965. Alan is assistant General Coun-
sel for the American Optical Company
in Southbridge, Massachusetts,

WALLER C, Harpy, JRr., is manager of Kay,
Richard & Company of Parkersburg, West
Virginia. The firm, with its main office in
Pittsburgh, is a member of the New York
Stock Exchange.

In his fifteenth year in the business, AL-
FRED R. KREIMER is a manufacturer's rep-
resentative in Northeastern Ohio. For the
sixth year he and his wife will go to Aus-
tralia in February on a business and vaca-
tion trip. Al’s principle business interest
in Australia is in irrigation farming in
Queensland in the St. George District
where he is in partnership with his
brother-in-law, and they grow wheat, oats
and lucerne.

The new president of National Life In-
surance Company will be Dr. Jonn T.
Fry, president of the University of Wy-
oming and former president of the Uni-
versity of Vermont. He will return to Ver-
mont next summer and take over his new
office in July. At 48, Dr. Fey becomes the
youngest president to serve the 115-year-
old mutual company. Before entering the
educational field, he practiced law in
Cumberland, Maryland, and was a mem-
ber of the Maryland Legislature from
1946 until 1950 and served two years as
clerk of the U.S. Supreme Court. Dr.
Fey then accepted an appointment as
professor of law at George Washington
University and became a dean of the law
school for three years.

RANDOLPH M. DUNCAN is the manager of
marketing for the General Electric Com-
pany. He and Mrs. Duncan with their
three children reside in Owensboro, Ken-
tucky.

1940

Matruew A. “Marr” Grirriru, who has
been engaged in public relations work in
New York for the past nine years, is
making plans to publish several new

business periodicals,
1941

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Morton D. BARKER,
Jr., a son, John Andrew, on November
23, 1965. Mort is in the lumber and build-
ing material business in Springfield, Il-
linois,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

kp FRANKLIN FRANZE, JR., Was recently

»romoted to the rank of Associate Profes-

sor of English at Georgia State College,

\tlanta, Georgia.

James R.

esident of the Pangborn Corporation in
Maryland. Mr. McConnell
ined Pangborn in 1957 and has served

MCCONNELL has been named
Hagerstown,

executive vice-president singe August,

iio
ws

KENNETH D. Moxey is set designer for
lhe Plavers in Sarasota, Florida. He has
een a resident of Sarasota for many years
nd started working with the drama group
i949. After graduation at Washington
id Lee he attended the Yale University
School of Drama. Previously he had serv
ed four years with the Eighth Air Force.
In Sarasota he has taken part in almost
very phase of theater operation includ-
several on-stage roles.

CAPTAIN CLIFTON B. Curtis, JR., Com-

anding Officer of U.S. Naval Air Facility,
Naples, Italy, was among ten newly ap
Knights of the Order of SS
Salvator and S. Brigida of Sweden. Local

inted

| foreign dignitaries were present at
ceremony of the investiture on Ox
1965, in the Church of S.
brigida in Naples. In the picture Captain
Curtis is being knighted by Grand Maste1
H. E. Count Vincenzo Abbath, and wit-
ssing the event is Col. W. Baserto who
Captain

Cl 10,

onsored Curtis at the cere-
ony. This is just one of the several
vents which stand as a living example

friendly atmosphere between the
(nited States Navy and the Italian Ain

Force at Naples.

KELAND of Racine,
\Visconsin, has been named a director ol

WiLLIAM HAMPTON
johnson Hill’s, Incoporated. He has been
serving as vice-president of S. C. Jones
Sons and is a member of the board of

istees of the Johnson’s Wax Fund.

1942

CHARLES LANE SARTOR recently presented
per, “History and Development of the
Caddo-Pine Island Field,” before a meet-
{ the Shreveport Geological Society.
is a certified petroleum geologist
Ss a member of the American Asso-
on of Petroleum Geologists as well as
Shreveport Geological Society. He has
on several committees of both
zations and = has
Another came to
when he was elected to
ond year’s term as president of the
Sireveport Association for the’ Blind,
is a United Fund Agency employ-
ind persons in manufacturing skill-

O}] products.

presented othe

s locally. honot

e recently

Whirr N. ScHuLtz, international busi-
consultant, is the writer of a soon to
leased world-wide syndicated column,
2 tO use your imagination.” He is
icational associate of the University

TER 1966

      
 

pant
ALLL

inn

opegenne

nggpeneee

Capt. CLIFTON B. Curris, qR., “41

of Chicago and Central College and has
been appointed to the Hall of
of Webber College.

Fame

CHRISTOPHER C, BARNEKOV has been ap-
pointed commanding officer of Naval Air
Intelligence Reserve Unit 622. He is liv-
ing in McLean, Virginia and has served
as president of Broohaven Civic Associa-
tion in McLean.

ROBERT C. WALKER has been elected Pres
ident of the Peninsula Bank and Trust
Company of Williamsburg, Virginia. He
has been serving as executive vice-presi-
dent of this bank since 1954. Prior to
joining PB&T Mr. Walker was connected
with the Peoples National and the First
National Banks in Lexington and was an
assistant examiner with the Federal De-
posit Insurance Corporation. He is cur-
rently chairman of the Williamsburg
planning commission and a member of
the city’s financial advisory committee.
He is also president of the United Fund,
treasurer of the Community Council, a

trustee of Williamsburg Community Hos
pital and a member of the Navy League
of the U.S.

Ihe C.P.A. firm of Daniels, Turnbull &
freeman of Newport News, Virginia an
nounces that Bevertey W. Lee, Jr., has
been admitted to partnership.

Dr. Wuirr M. Scuuttz is director of
National Programming for the Great
Books Division of Encyclopedia Britanica,
Inc. Prior to his appointment with Bri-
tannica, he held executive posts in mark-
eting and public relations with Bell Tel-
ephone System. He was named by the
Chicago Daily News as “one of Chicago's
outstanding young men.” Dr. Schultz is an
author, a newspaperman, a holder of a
United States patent, a lecturer, a con-
sultant to business, and a teacher. He
is a member of the Board,
Creative Education Foundation Inc... of
Bulfalo, New York.

Advisory

Dr. DouGALD McDoUGALD Monroe. JR.,
began his duties as Vice-President and

41

Academic Dean of Montreat-Anderson
College in Montreat, North Carolina.

Epwarp J. McCarry has been elected
Senior Vice-President at Southern Bank
and Trust Company, Richmond, Virginia.
He will be the bank’s senior loan official
and in charge of its lending divisions. Ed
joined Southern Bank in 1957. He is a
member of the Loan Committee of the
Industrial Development Corporation,
serves as Treasurer of the Richmond Ar-
thritis Foundation, and has been active
in the work of the Richmond Kiwanis
Club.

1943

DONALD L. RICHARDSON has become vice
president of Nauman VanderVoort, Inc.,
an allied member of the New York Stock
Exchange. He and his family live in
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan.

ROBERT C. MEHORTER, assistint secretary of
the Home Insurance Company, has been
elected a secretary of the company. He
will assist in the supervision of the com-
pany’s Southern Division. Bob joined The
Home in 1947 as a trainee and in 1949 be-
came a special agent in Tennessee. In 1957
he became a casualty manager in Rich-
mond and in 1962 was elected assistant
secretary and was transferred to the head
office as administrative assistant in the
Southern Division.

JAMes S. SUTHERLAND, III, has been elec-
ed as trust development officer at the
Birmingham Trust National Bank in
Birmingham, Alabama. Mr. Sutherland
has had management experience in both
manufacturing and distribution, since
he was formerly vice-president of Jelco
Manutacturing Company in Anniston,
Alabama, and prior to that was in sales
work for a national appliance manufac-
turer.

DoNnALpD E. GARRETSON and family live in
St. Paul Minnesota, where Don is with
the 3M Company. He and his wife have
five children.

RALPH S. TAGGART, former vice-president
of Crosby Lumber and Manufacturing
Company of Crosby, Mississippi, has been
appointed Vice-president-Industry Rela-
tions of the Southern Pine Assocation.
This is a newly created office, and the
president of the Association in making
the announcement stated that Taggart’s
extensive background in lumber manu-
facturing and in Association work where
he served on committees, the Board of
Directors and as second vice-president,
fills an important gap in strengthening
the relations of the Association with other
groups and companies engaged in the pro-
duction and promotion of Southern Pine.

DONALD J. CRAwForD has been named to
the post of Director of Internal Con-
trol at the Seaboard Office of State Farm
Insurance Companies in Frederick, Mary-
land. Mr. Crawford began employment
with State Farm in 1952, and in recent

42

years has established a reputation as an
insurance educator. He is now responsible
for the planning and maintenance of a
continuous review of all Seaboard Office
functions and the making of projections
and studies to facilitate management plan-
ning and control.

1944

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Linwoop A. HOoL-
TON, JR., a son, Dwight Carter, on De-
cember 18, 1965, in Roanoke, Virginia.
Linwood was the Republican candidate
for governor this past year, polling nearly
200,000 votes in losing to Gov.-elect Mills
E. Goodwin, Jr.

 

GEORGE FREHLING, "43

GrORGE FREHLING has been appointed
Sales Promotion Manager for Salespower,
the international marketing services di-
vision of Manpower, Inc. In his new
position, Mr. Frenhling will coordinate
and direct sales promotion and training
programs. Salespower supplies temporary
sales and merchandising services to busi-
ness and industry. Prior to joining Sales-
power, he was for seven years president
of Metal Moss Manufacturing Company,
Inc. in Chicago.

1945

The Pepsi-Cola Company has announced
that Davin L. Jones has been named pro-
duct manager of a new chocolate bev-
erage which they are developing. Previous-
ly, Mr. Jones has been Mechanical Pack-
aging Manager for the International Paper
Company, Senior Vice President, Market-
ing, for Raymond Loewy Associates, Vice
President in charge of Marketing for the
Mettler Instrument Corporation, and was
a marketing consultant for McKinsey &
Company, Inc. He is a member of the
American Management Association, the
American Marketing Association, and the
Union Club.

Perer M. Hazewr, his wife, Alice, and
four children now reside in Corona del
Mar, California. Peter is Director of
Marketing for American Continental Lab-
oratories at Buena Park, California, and
also is a director of the Pacific Vitamin
Corporation.

1946

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs A. OTTIGNON,
a second son and sixth child, David Alex-
ander, on June 20, 1965. The Ottignons
live in Hackensack, New Jersey.

Dr. MALcoLM TENNEY, JR., heads the
health departments of Amherst, Augusta,
Highland, and Nelson Counties, Virginia,
and the cities of Waynesboro and Staun-
ton. Dr. Tenney has spent many of his
years in training. After graduating from
Washington and Lee he _ received his
medical degree from the Medical College
of Virginia, and M.A. in Public Health
from Johns Hopkins, and another M.A,
in administration from Columbia Univer-
sity. In January of this year the Roanoke
Times carried a lengthy article featuring
his work and what he is accomplishing
in public health.

Rex CRIMINALE, associate professor of ro-
mance languages at Elmira College, New
York, is spending his sabbatical year do-
ing research in Spain.

1947

Since 1949, WILLIAM M. WiLcox, JR., has
been with B. F. Goodrich Co. He is pres-
ently zone manager in Philadelphia. Ef-
fective in February, he is being transfer-
ed to Akron, Ohio, where he will be in
charge of store manager training.

1948

Anderson & Company, members of the
New York and American Stock Exchanges,
announced the opening of a branch of-
fice in Chattanooga, Tennessee, with
GeorGE S. BRYAN as manager. The firm
provides a full complement of investment
services including research, general stock
and bond brokerage, municipals, invest-
ment bankng and venture captal. George
is prominent in civic and social life of
Chattanooga. He and his wife have four
children and make their home on Look-
out Mountain.

The promotion edtor for The Commer-
cial Appeal in Memphis is JouN H. Sor-
RELLS. He holds the rank of Lieutenant
Colonel in the Army Reserves and does
his summer duty at Ft. Monroe. The Sor-
rells family spend their vacation camping.

WILLIAM M. HARRELSON has been city
solicitor for Troy, Ohio, for four suc-
cessive terms and this fall was running
for a seat on the Troy School Board.
He is a member of the law firm of
Faust, Harrelson & Thornburgh and is a
past president of the Miami County Bar
Association.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

1949

BORN: Mr. and Mr., WittiaM Roy Rice,
, daughter, Amy Yvonne, on April go,
1965, in Charleston, West Virginia. Roy
's an attorney in Charleston.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RicHarp H. Tur-
ket, Owin sons, David Clark and Douglas
Wolfe, on July 22, 1965. The boys join
an older brother, Richard, Jr., who is
six years old. Turrell, Sr., is a vice-presi-
dent of the Fiduciary Trust Company of
New York. He and his wife, Sally, and the
family live in Short Hills, New Jersey.

Ropert S. IRONs, a lawyer of Radford,
Virginia, has been named assistant U.S.
district attorney for Western Virginia and
will be in charge of government land
work and also represent the government
in criminal and civil cases. He is a for-
mer Radford councilman and has served
as substitute judge of Municipal and
juvenile and Domestic Relations Court
in Radford.

\ViLLIAM M. KINNAIRD graduated from the
‘oth session of the Program for Manage-
ment Development at Harvard Universty
Graduate School of Business Administra-
ition. This is a 16-week program in which
72 business executives, government em-
ployees, and military leaders participated.
tach participant was sponsored by his or-
ganization as a middle manager of high
potential.

}ck P. Leicu has been named brokerage
supervsor at the Dallas general agency for
ithe Atena Life Insurance Company. Since
joining Aetna Life in 1962 he had pre-
viously served as a sales representative
at Beaumont, Texas.

1950

ln January RayMonpd D. Coates” was
sworn in as State’s Attorney for Worches-
ter County, Maryland. He makes his home
1 Berlin, Maryland, where he has been
practicing law since 1955.

Greeey OU. STEPHENS has been appointed
chairman of the Convention ‘Tourist
Coordinating Committee of Chattanooga.
Gerry is vice-president of the American
‘National Bank & Trust Company and has
peen active n Chamber of Commerce, in-
dustrial development and civic work for
several years.

CHRISTOPHER S. Moore has been admitted
‘Ss a general partner in the invesment
banking firm of Dick & Merle-Smith, mem-
bers of the New York Stock Exchange.
"rior to joining this firm in 1962 he had
spent his business career with Volunteer
state Life Insurance Company of Chat-
‘{nooga, first as a mortgage loan analyst
and then as treasurer of the company.
{he Moores make their home in New
York City.

RICHARD E, Hopces, a vice-president of the
advertising and public relations firm of

WINTER 1966

Liller Neal Battle & Lindsey, Inc., has
been elected to its Board of Directors.
Dick has been on the agency staff for
nearly fifteen years, working in various
fields. He is currently president of the
Atlanta Chapter of Sigma Delta Chi, a
director of the Atlanta chapter of the
Public relations Society of America, and
a member of the board of governors of
the Southeast Council of the American
Association of Advertisng Agencies.

1951

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Rospert Lee Hopr-
KINS, JR., announce the adoption of a
daughter, Louise Fontaine Hopkins, on
January 24, 1966. She was born Decem-
ber 14, 1965. Bob is the business manager
of Chatham Hall in Chatham, Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. L. Preston Cot-
LINS, III, a fourth daughter, Elizabet Bol-
ling Collins, on June 22, 1965. Pat is
manager of the WMEV raido station in
Marion, Virginia.

Westey G. Brown, agent for the Penn
Mutual Life Insurance Company in Chat-
tanooga, has been named chairman of the
Sports and Recreation Committees of the
Greater Chattanooga Chamber of Com-
merce. This committee will work with
the Metropolitan Council of Community
Services on a study of recreation on a
community-wide basis and will conduct
the annual all-sports banquet.

RicHarD A. Pizirz, grandson of the found-
er of a large department store in Birm-
ingham bearing his name, has been named
president of Pizitz, Inc. Dick began his
successful retailing and merchandising
career in 1953 and in 1959 he assumed the
othice of assistant to the president and
Vice-president of Pizitz, and Pizitz Realty
Company. In Alabama he is an outstand-
ing leader in city and _ state, cive, cul-
tural and busness aflars. He has served
as a member of the board of the Amer-
ican Red Cross, the Boy Scouts, the Bet-
ter Business Bureau, Temple Emanu-E],
Alabama Foundation for Hearing and
Speech, Alabama Council of Retail Mer-
chants, the Community Chest, Chamber
of Commerce, and the Birmingham Sym.
phony Association.

It was recently announced by the presi-
dent of Glenmore Distilleries Company
that JACK E. KANNAPELL, JR., has been
elected assistant vice-president and ad-
vertising manager for the company. Jack
joned Glenmore in February, 1965, and
was previously associate with the Foote,
Cone and Belding Advertising Agency
in Chicago. He and his wife, the former
Joyce Garibaldi Allen, now live in Glen-
view, Kentucky.

After six years on the law faculty of
Washington and Lee and eight years on
the law faculty at Wake Forest College,
E. McGruper Faris, JRr., has entered prac-
tice in Williamsburg, Va., with the firm

of Ceddy, Baker and Inmaw. Not wish-
ing to leave teaching altogether, he is
on part time service at the Marshall
Wythe School of Law at the College of
William and Mary.

In June, 1965, BLAik J. HArkerr resigned
from the State Farm Insurance Company
and began the private practice of law
in McKeesport, Pennsylvania.

1952

GEORGE W. PIERSON is the recipient of the
Jaycees’ Distinguished Service Award giv-
en by the Greater Towson (Md.) Jaycees.
George is the manager of the Baltimore
office of the Sun Life Assurance Company
of Canada. After only six weeks with
this company he was promoted from group
representative to manager of the office
which is recognized as one of the best or-
ganized in the country. He has also been
chosen to be one of the Sun Life’s regional
instructors. He is active in Scottish Rite
work, is a member of the School Board
Nominating Committee, chairman of the
Baltimore County March of Dimes Drive,
and served as treasurer for the success-
ful campaign of Senator Joseph Tydings.
Recently he was appointed by the Demo-
cratic National Committee as chairman
of the committee to elect Democratic Con-
gressmen in the end Congressional Dis-
trict,

Robert MASLANSKY is practicing internal
medicine in Minneapolis, Minnesota,
where he and Mrs. Maslansky live with
their three children.

After a period of eight years as a buyer
with John Plain and Company, Tuomas
N. Harris will begin his new position
as Buyer, Home Entertainment Products,
with the Allied Radio Corporation in
Chicago, Illinois, effective January ,
1966.

1953

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Herperr S. FA,
Jk., a third son, Richard Harris, on De-
cember 8, 1965, in Greensboro, North
Carolina.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. James C. GALT, a
daughter, Elizabeth, born July 22, 1965.
The family lives in Rehmond, Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JosepH W. SCHER
of Scotch Plains, New Jersey a daughter,
Ellen on July 4, 1965. Joe is a copy sup-
ervisor at Batten, Barton, Durstin & Os-
born.

Wesleyan University of Middletown, Con-
necticut, has promoted Dr. Joun D.
MAGUIRE to associate professor of religion.
A graduate of Yale Divinity School, he
received his Ph.D. in 1960 from Yale. He
was a Fulbright scholar in 1964-65 at the
University of Edinburg.

On February 11, 1966, U.S. Represenra-
TIVE WILLIAM E. Brock, III, was named
Chattanooga’s “Young Man of the Year”

43

at the e2gth annual Distinguished Serv-
ice Award banquet of the Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce of that city. In_ the
presentation of the award Bill was cited
for his legislative activities and his work
in behalf of the Community. This award
comes only a few weeks after Bill's father,
W. E. Brock, Jr., W&L ‘25, was named
Kiwanis Man of the Year in Chattagoona.

NATHAN SALKY is in the practice of Inter-
nal Medicine and Cardiology in Memphis,
Lennessee,

kpwarp J. Newsaker, III, who has been
pastor of a Presbyterian church in Ligo-
nier, Pennsylvania, for the past eight
years, has resigned to accept a_ pastorate
in Millerstown, Pennsylvania. He has
served as president of the Ligonier Valley
Historical Society and also a past presi-
dent and secretary of the Ministerial As-
sociation.

Pur Rev. Cuartes Scorr May, who has
been since 1958 the rector of St. Paul's
Episcopal Church in Newport, Arkansas,
has accepted a position as assistant to the
rector at ‘Trinity Church, Columbia,
South Carolina. Before going to Newport
he was curate at Christ Episcopal
Church in Little Rock. He has served as
youth advisor to the Diocese of Arkan-
sas, as director of the Senior High Camp
of Arkansas, a member of the board of
trustees of All Saints Episcopal School in
Vicksburg, and is currently a member of
the executive council of the Diocese of
Arkansas and chairman of the diocese’s
Department of Christian Education.

\iter leaving Naval Aviation, Roserr J.
MACCUBBIN went into the food brokerage
business wth Curt L. Rogers Co. in Char-
lotte, N. C. He and his wife have three
children.

Dr. C. R. ADAMs, JR., passed the American
Society of Oral Surgeon’s examination in
the fall of 1965. He is presently in Charles-
ton, West Virginia.

After ten years with IBM, ALperr W.
DAuB has resigned and accepted a position
as Sales Manager and Secretary of the
Scarecrow Press, Inc., in New York City.
During his time with IBM as a salesman
in the Office Products Division he quali-
fied for eight 100 per cent clubs. The
Scarecrow Press is a publishing firm for
books for the library industry.

1954

Tne Rev. J. Frercuer Lowe, Jr., and his
wife spent three weeks touring England,
including a preaching opportunity in
St. Barnabas Church, London. Fletcher
is a board member of the Lynchburg
Mental Health Association, vice president
of the Ministerial Association, and dio-
cesan representative to Virginia Council
of Churches.

The Frankfort, Kentucky, Chamber of
Commerce has chosen GorRDON M. ‘TAYLOR

44

 

EARL L. HARGROVE, JR., "54

the “Outstanding Young Man of the
Year.” Gordon is the assistant vice-
president of Farmers Bank and Capital
Trust Company. He was selected for the
honor based on his participation in
many civic organizations, especially the
Franklin County United Fund. Gordon
and his wife, Jane, have two children.

LARRY RAYMOND, JR., has been appointed
Judge of Probate of Androscoggin Coun-
ty, Maine. He and Mrs. Raymond have
four children, three daughters and one
son.

Ceci EyMONDs has moved up from execu-
tive vice-president to president of Brand
and Edmonds Associates, a Salem (Va.)
advertising agency. Before joining the
agency Cecil was assistant city editor and
columnist for the Roanoke Times. The
business has more than thirty clients and
twenty-five employees.

Roperr O. GLAster and family returned
to Paris, France, in September, 1965,
where he accepted the position of General
Manager of the Graham Parker, Inc., an
industrial and technical consulting firm.
Bob has been with Graham Parker for
six years. The family consists of wife and
three sons.

Witson H. Riper, an estate analyst and
business development officer, has taken
a new position with the Sale Deposit
Bank and Trust Company of Springfield,
Massachusetts, as head of Trust Market-
ing. The Rider family is living in Sims-
bury, Connecticut, at present, but Wilson
has bought a 120-acre farm in Granville,
Massachusetts, and they will move in the
coming summer.

JAMes D. BONeEBRAKE has assumed the
presidency of the Cleveland, Ohio, Life
Underwriters Association. Jim is a special
agent for the Northwestern Mutual Life

Insurance Company, and in five of his
seven years with company has been a
member of the Million Dollar Round
lable. He has also earned the National
Quality Award for six years. He predicts
that before 1970 life insurance will be-
come the nation’s first trillion-dollar in-
dustry.

EARL L. HARGROVE, JR., has been promot.
ed to assistant treasurer by Robertshaw
Controls Company. He will continue to
head the company’s tax department. Be-
fore joining Robertshaw in 1959, he was
senior accountant with the Richmond
public accounting firm of Leach, Calkins
& Scott. Earl makes his home in Rich-
mond and is a member of the American
Bar Association and the American In-
stitute of Certified Public Accountants.

1955

For six years Norn A. L. WAKELIN: was
with Bell Telephone Company in Market-
ing and Sales. In 1961 he joined Ford
Motor Company as Systems Analyst at
their Oakville, Ontario, Canada_ plant.
his past Thanksgiving of 1965 he and
his family, wife and two children were
transferred to Sandusky, Ohio, where Noel
is in charge of Systems and Data Process-
ing at Ford’s General Parts Division.

James A. ReepeR recently presented a
paper, “Whatever Happened to the Rule
of Law?” at a meeting of the Arl-La-Tex
Landmen’s Association. The talk discussed
current attitudes toward civil disobedience
and the consequences. Jim is a member of
the board of directors of the Young Law-
vers’ Section of the American Bar Asso-
ciation and is chairman of the Louisiana
State Junior Bar. He is also a member of
the Council of the Louisiana State Law
Institution and the board of gorvernors of
of the Louisiana State Bar Association and
is chairman of the program committee
of the Shreveport Bar Association.

Having received his doctorate at Trinity
College in Dublin, England in 1962 and
having taught at the University of Ken-
tucky for three years, Dr. YEAGER HUNT
CLIFTON is now Assistant Professor of Lit-
erature at Southwestern University in
Memphis, Tennessee.

FoRNEY R. DAUGETTE is vice-president and
treasurer of the Life Insurance Co. of
Alabama whose home office is in Gadsden,
Alabama.

BEAUREGARD A. REDMOND has been elevat-
ed to a vice-presidency of the Bank of
New Orleans. Beau, formerly an assistant
vice-president, joined the bank in 1958.
He has served for the past five years in
the commercial loan department.

Joun T. HuppLe was unopposed in the
fall elections for the office of solicitor
in Fairfield County, Ohio. He and _ his
wife, Carolyn, have two children and
make their home n Lancaster, Oho.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ROBERT M. CULLERS, “55

he former associate editor of the Gen-
ral Motors World, Roperr M. CuLuLers
has been named editor of The Atlantic
Vlagazine which is the employee publi-
cation of The Atlantic Refining Company.
Previously he had also served in editor-
ial and promotional capacities with the
L.. W. Singer Co. of Syracuse, New York,
lhe Asia Magazine in Hong Kong, and
The Asahi Evening News, a daily news-

papel in Lokvyo.

1956

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. G. Carter WerTH,
a daughter, Ann Carter, on November
6, 1905. Carter has just been promoted
to Sales Planning Manager for UNIVAC’s
hederal Marketng Operations in Washing-
ton, D.C,

\ former engineer with the Allied Chem-
ical Corporation, W. R. (BILL) SARGENT,
}k., has become the new Director of Alum-
ni Relations at the University of South
Carolina in Columbia, South Carolina.
He is a native of Greenville, South Car-
olina, and after leaving Washington and
Lee earned a bachelor of science degree
‘in management from the University of
south Carolina. He was a_ production
engineer with J. P. Stevens Company at
\nderson, South Carolina, before join-
ing the Allied Chemical Corporation. The
rargents have two sons and one daughter.

Roy C. MARTIN is Program Director for
WEAX Radio in Falls Church, Virginia.
He is also radio-TV producer for ADS
\udio, a public relations firm in Fair-
‘aN producing radio and TV announce-
nents. Roy is active in two Washington
D.C... motion picture organizations.

1957
BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RicHarp C. Wuite-

WINTER 1966

 

SOLON A. Person, IIT, 56

FORD of Baltimore, a son, Mark H.. in
May, 1965. The young man joins an
older sister and brother.

SOLON ARMOUR PERSON, III, has been ap-
pointed assistant manager of Export Sales
of Harbison-Walker Refractories Com-
pany. He joined Harbison-Walker late in
1958 and in 1960, after completing his
training program, was assigned to the Ex-
port Sales Department. Since October he
has been on the sales staff of the New
York office assigned to export business.

DONALD S. Luria has moved to Yorktown
Heights, New York. He is with the Ad-
vanced Systems Development Division of
IBM doing market forecasting.

Joun J. Fox, Jr., has moved to Washing-
ton, D.C., where he is associated with
the American National Bank of Mary-
land in Silver Spring, Maryland.

WALTER C. CREMIN has become associated
with the Great-West Lfe Assurance Com-
pany as a member of the South Texas
Agency with Offices located in Houston.

MARRIED; Sue_pon Ciarke, II, and Con-
rad Eyre were married December 29, 1965,
in Chicago. Sheldon is an advertising rep-
resentative for the Readers Digest. He
wife is on the staff of Sports Illustrated.
The couple live in New York City.

1958

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GLENN R. FAHREN-
rHOLD, a third child and second son,
[thomas Richert, on December 12, 1965.
Glenn has just taken a new position in
the sales department of a Kansas City
firm, the National Truck Equipment Com-
pany, which distributes such truck equip-
ment as digger derricks and aerial lifts.
Ihe Fahrentholds live in Prarie Village,
Kansas.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Kerra R. Barney,
JR., a son, Keith R., III, on May 29, 1965,
in Arlington, Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Hat C. Wurraker,
a daughter, Katherine Cummings Whita-
ker, on November 13, 1956. The Whita-
kers now have two daughters and the fam-
ily lives in Baltimore.

Ropert H. LARue, JR., has become a reg-
istered representative of the New York
Stock Exchange with the Tulsa office of
A. G. Edwards & Sons. He completed the
necessary training for this work and has
been with this company since last March.

WARREN G. Nuess_e is the Chemical
Manager of Fox Norris Associates, a
national search and recruiting firm. He
and his wife, Barbara, reside in St. Davids.
Pennsylvania.

J. Robert Srone, JRr., a native of Nash-
ville, Tennessee, has joined the Wall
Street: Journal as advertising promotion
director.

Dr. IRWIN R. BeRMAN is entering his
Chief Residency year in surgery in July
at Bellevue Hospital Center in New York
City.

J. Witttam Rep has been elected assistant
cashier at First and Merchants National
Bank in Richmond, Virginia. He has
been employed in the bank since 1961
where he has worked in the Installment
Loan Department and the Credit Depart-
ment until April of this year. He is now
a commercial lending officer at First and
Merchants’ Main Office.

Lewis Pore Wexer attended the Program
lor Management Development at the Har-
vard University Graduate School of Busi-
ness Administration, a 16-week session
which began last August. This session is
designed to give middle managers a
broader perspective and to prepare them
to assume increasing responsibility and
was attended by 72 executive represent-
ing 2g states, Washington, D.C., Canada,
and 10 overseas nations.

1959

MARRIED: Steve Marks and Mary Lynn
Roland were married in May, 1965. Steve
is the general manager of the Credit
Bureau of Memphis.

BORN: A son, William S. Harrison, Jr.,
on January 3, 1966 to Dr. and Mrs. Wi-
LIAM S. Harrison, D.D.S,

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Gorvon Burt
l'yLer, a daughter, Laura Michele, on
March 6, 1965. Burt is with General
American Life Insurance Company in
Pulsa, Oklahoma.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Joun G. Koepet,
Jk., a son, John G., TI, on Septembei
25, 1965. The father became Assistant
Cashier of the Pittsburgh National Bank
effective December 1965.

Roserr D. Bouan has recently been ap-
pointed Sales Manager for Addison-
Semmes Corporation, an industrial pack-
aging firm in Chicago. The firm, whose
parent corporation is Signode, has moved
into expanded facilities.

Davin W. FLecaL has been promoted to
the position of assistant marketing em-
ployment manager in the Marketing Per-
sonnel Division of Scott Paper Company.
Dave joined Scott in 1963 as a_ sales
representative in the Houston Consumer
Products Division, and was subsequently
promoted to his most recent assignment
as senior representative in 1964.

RicHArRD B. GWATHMEY is moving to At-
lanta where he will become the Sales
Manager of St. Joe Paper Company’s new
box plant in College Park. The Gwath-
mey’s have six children.

Joun G. Koeper, Jr., has been elected
assistant cashier for the Commercial Bank-
Division, Pittsburgh National Bank in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. John joined the
Pittsburgh National Bank as a credit in-
vestigator in 1959 and was assigned as
an administrative assistant in the Com-
mercial Banking Division in June, 1964.
John and his wife, Fay, have a young
son and they live in Mount
Pennsylvania.

Lebanon,

Dr. D. K. Jorrrion is in his third year
of Orthopedic Surgery at Confederate
Memorial Hospital in Shreveport. He ex-
pects to enter the armed services in the
spring.

Mayor RicHarp H. Horn, an Air Force
Reserve officer, has been graduated from
the Armed Forces Staff College orientation
course at Norfolk, Virginia. Major Horn
serves as a staff judge advocate in the
Air Force Reserve Sector, Bolling AFB,
Washington, D.C. He was among selected
reserve and Air National Guard officers
from a wide range of civilian occupation
and professions who were chosen for the
special two-week course.

Announcement has just been made that
CLINTON M. Earty has joined the firm of
Orvis Brothers and Company, members
of the New York Stock Exchange and
the American Stock Exchange, as a regis-
tered representative. The offices of this
firm are in Memphis, Tennessee.

Tom L. Larimore recently became a part-
ner in the law firm of Walker Bishop and
Larimore in Fort Worth, Texas.

ARTHUR S. Grove, JR., is a clinical associate
in the U.S. Public Health Service at the
National Institute of Health in Wash-
ington, D.C. Following his two years
of active duty, he expects to enter Law
School.

James R. Lowe is attending a six-month
ordnance officer career course scheduled to
end in March, 1966, at the Army Ord-
nance Center in Aberdeen Proving

40

Ground, Maryland. Captain Lowe is re-
ceiving instruction in the duties and re-
sponsibilities of an ordnance officer and
is being trained in supply and maintence
operations.

1960

MARRIED: WittouGH Newton and Miss
Rhonwen Leornard of Lexington, North
Carolina, were married August 7, 1965.
Two W&L men, CHarLes D. AIKEN, JR.,
‘6o, and JouHN S. Hopewett, ‘6o, served
as ushers. The new couple now live in
Virginia Beach.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WICKLIFFE HOL-
LINGSHEAD, a son, Wickliffe Stewart, IIT, on
July 23, 1965. The father, after complet-
ing three years in the Navy, is now a
management trainee for R. M. Hollings-
head Corporation.

 

JouN G. KOEDEL, JR., “59

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. MALcoLm Boss
BuRTON, a son, James Vreeland, October
26, 1965. The family lives in Chatham,
New Jersey.

James Homer Brown, Jr., after graduat-
from the University of Virginia Law
School is practicing law in Alexandria
with the firm of Boothe, Dudley, Koontz,
Blankenship and Stump.

Since March, 1964, RicHARD ABERSON has
been with First National City Bank in
New York City. He recently was _ pro-
moted to Assistant Trust Officer. He is
in the new business development depart-
ment of the Trust Department.

On a post-dictoral fellowship from the
National Institute of Health, SANpDy
Marks, JR., is in his second year of a Ph.D.
program in anatomy at Johns Hopkins
University.

After finishing graduate school in De-
cember, 1964, with a Ph.D. in Biochemis-

try, RARDON D. Bevitr, IL, is in the army
with the rank of first lieutenant. He and
his wife like living in Denver where they
find enough time to enjoy the mountains
of Colorado. Rardon’s work is biological
research for the Army.

Ropert L. Evcper has been awarded one of
the first three Mark Ethridge Fellowships
for Southern Journalists. The fellowship
program is being administered by the
Southern Regional Education Board un-
der a Ford Foundation grant. Bob, who
is a reporter for the Nashville Tennes-
sean, will study at Vanderbilt University,

Dr. MAx Ettiorr is a resident in the
Department of Pathology at Barnes Hos-
pital, Washington University School of
Medicine in St. Louis, Missouri. Max and
his wife have two children, Max, Jr., who
is four years old and a daughter, Wynd-
ham two years old.

With rank of Lieutenant (j.g.), JOHN S,
HopeweLtt is the Combat’ Information
Center Officer for the U.S.S. William IV.
Pratt (DLG-B). The Pratt is home-ported
at Mayport, Florida, and has_ recently
served with the Sixth Fleet in the Medi-
terranean.

WittiAM Gerorce (BILL) LOFFFIFR was re-
leased from the Marine Corps in May,
1965, and joined General Electric Com-
pany in Schenectady, New York. He is
on the advertising and public relations
training program and his first assignment
is with General Electric News Bureau
where he is in charge of press relations
activities for several departments.

J. THoMAs TOouCcHTON is a registered rep-
resentative in the Tampa, Florida, of-
fice of Smith, Barney and Company, Inc.,
a member of the New York Stock Ex-
change.

1961

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. DONALD PARTING-
ron, a son, Bruce Douglas on November
11, 1965, at the Annapolis Naval Academy
Hospital. Don is serving as Army Claims
Officer, Headquarters, 1st U.S. Army Fort
George Meade, Maryland. He holds the
rank of Captain.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. E. J. SULZBERGER,
Jr., a son, Robert Bell on November 25,
1965.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH KLEEMAN,
a son, John Kenneth, on May 27, 1965.
Che family lives in Charleston, West Vir-
ginia.

Lr. Ciirrorp C. ApaMs, JR., completed a
nine-week transportation officer _ basic
course at the Army Transportation School,
Fort Eustis, last December.

MALCOLM BROWNLEE, JR., is now pastor of
the Hull Memorial Presbyterian Church,
Hazard, Kentucky.

After being released from the Army
nearly a year ago, RicHarp W. Hoover is

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

now doing graduate work at Indiana Uni-
versity in Bloomington, Indiana.

\fter graduating from the University of
Virginia’ Law School in June, 1961,
Grorce Y. BirpsoNG became associated
with Godwin and Godwin, attorneys in
Suffolk. Effective January 1, 1966, he left
the private practice and joined Birdsong
Storage Company as legal counsel. The
company is engaged in the business of
cleaning and shelling peanuts.

1962

VARRIED: After graduation from Uni-
versity of Virginia law school in June
ig65, Pearce D. HARDWICK was married
to Miss Laura Holbrook on July 8, 1965,
in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Pearce started
ictive duty in the Army in August, 1965,
ind is now stationed at the Homestead
\ir Force Base in Florida.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN WELDON
Boye, JR. a son, John Weldon, III, on
November 26, 1965.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GrorcGe ALBERT
Crucer, a son, Daniel Tate, on October
28, 1965. He joins big sister, Laura Jane,
twenty months old.

G. Lt. Duntop Ecker has resigned fis
position as assistant administrator at
\fontefiore Hospital and Medical Center
in New York to accept a similar position
s assistant administrator at the Washing
ton Hospital Center in Washington, D.C.

Lr. PAuL B. CLEMENCEAU has completed
an eight-week signal officer basic training
course at the Army Southeastern Signal
school, Fort Gordon, Georgia. During
this school he was trained in all com-
munications procedures.

DONALD H. McC .ure was elected President
of the Phi Rho Sigma Medical Fraternity
at Northwestern. He expects to graduate
‘rom medical school in June, 1966.

\LAN M. Corwin is with Bonneville Pow-
er Administration as a management anal-
yst. He lives in Portland, Oregon. On a
business trip to the East, he
saw Britt Line (Law ‘6o0) in Washington,
).C., where he is working on the Com-
munity Action Program for the Office of
iKconomic Opportunity.

recent

Currently, GreorcE E. Honts, III, is in Kil-
leen, Texas, where he is Operations Of-
ficer (S-3) for the 4th U.S. Army Non-
commissioned Officer Academy. The unit
‘rains selected non-commissioned men
‘rom the active reserve forces in Texas,
New Mexico, Louisiana, Oklahoma, and
\rkansas. George holds the rank of first
lieutenant.

DAvip C. Tyrrett, JR., is presently in
‘raining with Eastman Dillon, Union
Securities Company in New York to be-

come an institutional representative in
th :
‘heir Dallas, Texas office.

Hay no spent two years in Phoenix, Ari-

WINTER 1966

 

Davin H. WoLtHorn, '63, at right

zona with the Northwestern Mutual Life
Insurance Company, WILLIAM C. REMING-
rON joined the Insurance Brokerage and
Adjustors firm of Johnson and Higgins
in the New York office. He is married
to the former Jane Prescott and the
couple have a young son, one and one
half years old.

1963

MARRIED: Dantet F. Boyes and Mar-
thann Masterson were married on May 1,
1965. In June, 1965, Dan took his posi-
tion with the Robert C. Wilson Company
of Houston, Texas, as a residential mort-
gage officer. The Boyles are making their
home in Houston.

MARRIED; THomMas McKeENzIE KEESEF,
Jr., and Sandra Wade Otey were married
on December 11, 1965 in Grace-St. Luke’s
Episcopal Church in Memphis, Tennessee.
Tommy has been released from active
duty with the Navy and is in business
in Memphis.

Davin H. WoLrTHoRN received the Joint
Services Commendation Medal for his
service in Santo Domingo. David has been
at this post since April, 1965. His pres-
ent rank is first lieutenant and he has
received two medals for meritorious
service,

Craig T. DistLenorsr is presently vice-
president of the student body at the
George Washington University Law School
and is also co-chairman of the Centennial
Committee which planned this year's
Celebration of the Law School’s 100th
Anniversay. During this second semester
of this year he will work part-time for the

International Law Division of the US.
State Department,

On an internship from Union Theological
Seminary of New Yory City, Asuiey T.
WILTSHIRE, JR., is Assistant Chaplain at
Blair Academy where he teaches courses
in Christian doctrine and Bible and
coaches track and football. The football
team, for which he is backfield coach, had
its first winning season since 1956.

DAvID GROGAN and Susan March were
married in June, 1963. Until February,
1964, Dave was a management trainee
with Western Electric when he entered
the army. Beginning Jaunary, 1966, he
entered Wharton School of Finance where
he is working toward his MBA.

Since 1964 when he graduated from Naval
Air Advanced Training Command, Wt-
LIAM ALLEN Nortucutr has been stationed
at Cherry Point, North Carolina, a Marine
Air Corps Station. He is presently at-
tached to a Marine Fighter Attack Squad-
ron flying F-48 Phantom Aircraft. This
summer he will be in Vietnam for a
thirteen-month tour of duty.

President Johnson has awarded Lieuten-
ant Roperr L. Wuheevock, ILI, the Air
Medal for meritorious achievement while
participating in aerial flight in the Re-
public of Vietnam during the period
ig September to 29 September, 1965. The
award, given by General W. C. Westmore-
land, was made 6 December, 1965.

Holding the rank of first lieutenant,

STEPHEN H. STuLt is officer in charge of
the Commissioned Officers Mess (closed) at

47

the Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton,
California.

In his last year at medical school, Ron-
aLD L. Kine will do his internship at the
Medical College of Virginia in Richmond.

Lours A. Rosenstock, III, expects to
graduate from the T. C. Williams School
of Law, University of Richmond, in June,
1966. He will then enter the Armed
Services.

1964

MARRIED: Jack YArsRouGH and Valen-
tine Smith of Birmingham, Alabama, were
married on June 26, 1965. Jack com-
pleted his M.B.A. at the University of
North Carolina and is now stationed with
the Army at the Pentagon in Washington,
D.C., and lives in Arlington, Virginia.

MARRIED: Barry ALLEN GREENE and
Ewith Marlyn Kotzin were married on
June 13, 1965, in Washington, D.C. Barry
graduated in January, 1966, from the New
York University Graduate School of Busi-
ness and is employed at present at Glob-
man’s Department Store in Martinsville,
Virginia.

MARRIAGE: Joun W. Crark and Judith
Ann Bell were married in July, 1965, in
Pittsburg, Pennsylvania. The new Mrs.
Clark is a ‘65 graduate of Randolph-
Macon Women’s College. John is now in
his second year of Law School at Chapel
Hill.

James H. WALLENsTeIN is making a fine
record in his second year at Southern
Methodist Law School. He received the
“Barristers Award” for the “outstanding
student of first year law class.” Jim also
had an article published in the South-
western Law Journal. He is a member of
the moot court team, of the legal aid
clinic, and holds a full scholarship for
his second year.

\fter spending six months in the Coast
Guard Reserves, FLoyp W. MCKINNON is
in training with Cotswold Industries, Inc.
a textile converter and broker in New
York City.

In January MICHAEL W. SHEFFEY Was pro-
moted to first lieutenant in Vietnam
where he is assigned to the 1st Infantry
Division.

WELDON J. SmiTH resigned in September,
1965, from the Continental Bank to pur-
sue an M.B.A. at the University of Chicago
Graduate School. He expects to graduate
in August 1966.

STANLEY ALAN FINK is a partner in the
firm of Kiernan & Fink, counselors at law,
in Clark, New Jersey.

First Lr. Davin L. Gipson is now serving
as an Intelligence Advisor in Vietnam.

Lr. Spencer R. SrourFeR is with the 7gth
fransportation Company in Vietnam. He
writes that he has seen MIKE SHEFFEY,

43

 

J. MALCOLM Morris, ‘65

DAN FLoUuRNOY and Les Rucker. His wife
Ricki. and son reside in Alexandria, Vir-
ginia.

rain P. Tompkins has a_ teaching fel-
lowship in the Department of English
at Johns Hopkins University where he
is working for his master’s degree.

1965

MARRIED: Pau S. Murreuy and Joanne
Arnett were married on June 26, 1965.
Paul is presently serving with the Army
and in April will be sent to Berlin, Ger-
many, as a train commander and liaison
officer with the Soviet Forces.

MARRIED: Joun H. Kirkiey and Doro-
thy Malone Yates were married August
17, 1965. John is currently working  to-
wards his masters in Philosophy at the
University of Texas.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JACK MARTIN, a
son, John C. Martin, III, on December
27, 1965. Jack is pursuing a Ph.D. in
Mathematics at the University of Ken-
tucky.

A Freshman law student at Northwest-
ern University in Chicago, Jim DEYOUNG
has been elected one of the three fresh-
men to serve on the Board of Governors
of the Law School.

Perer H. Atrorp is teaching French at
the Berkshire School in Sheffield, Massa-
chusetts. He also coaches soccer, squash
and tennis.

SAMUEL P. Stmpson, IV, is presently at-
tending the Wharton Graduate Division
of the University of Pennsylvania. He
expects to receive his master’s degree in

1907.

DANIEL J. FRIEDMAN, JR, is a student in

the Army AG school in Indiana. During
January, 1966, he expects to be trans:
ferred to Ft. Meyer, Virginia.

J. Matcotm Morris has been named a
Peace Corps Volunteer, having completed
fourteen weeks of training at Syracuse
University, and is with a group of new
volunteers assigned to Tanzania. During
training Malcolm studied Swahili and
African history and culture and he will
teach at the high school level in boarding
schools and day schools throughout the
country of Tanzania.

Second Lt. Stewart M. Hurrr has com-
pleted a nine-week military police offcer
course at the Army Military Police School,
Fort Gordon, Georgia. He received in-
structions in military police administra-
tion, communications and camp station
operations.

Mark W. Gere is communication office
aboard the destroyer USS Norris whose
homeport is Newport, R. I. He expects
to enter Naval Justice School this spring.

Luoyp F. Rex will graduate from the Uni-
iversity of Colorado in August, 1966, when
he will receive a commission and ente!
the the Army.

BLAINE A. BROWNELL is working toward
his M.A. and Ph.D. in American history
at the University of North Carolina. His
wife, Mardi, is working as a caseworker fo1
the Durham Public Welfare Department.

 

1895

Herpert BoutpIn Hawes, historian, law-
ver and author, died on February 2, 1966.
After graduation from Washington and
Lee he practiced law in Bluefield, West
Virginia, where he was also city attorney.
In 1937 he was commissioned by the
Lynchburg Sesqui-Centennial Association
to write a history of Lynchburg. For many
years he was a writer for the American
Law Book Company in New York and
was the author of a historical romance.
“The Daughter of the Blood.’

1900

GEORGE PETRIE FISHBURNE, an attorney for
many years in Tacoma, Washington, died
November 5, 1965.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1902

\n automobile accident in Sacramento,
California, claimed the life of Joun P.
\Vart and his wife on November 25, 1965.
\ir. Wall was a lawyer in Seattle, Wash-
ington, and had been semi-retired. Mr.
and Mrs. Wall had been in California

visiting relatives.
1906

FRANKLIN K. RApber died as the result of
an automobile accident November 28,
ighs5. Mr. Rader, for go years, was profes-
sor of finance at Southern Methodist Uni-
versity. He retired several years ago. He
was also formerly associated with the con-
seryvative Life Insurance Co. of Wheeling,
W. Va.

Crvvpk Henry Possr died on September
is, 1965, in Bluefield, West Virginia. Mr.
Pobst was the senior partner in the prac-
tice of law with the firm of Pobst and
Coleman in Grundy, Virginia. He once
stated that after fifty-six years of practice
ne had in his office more actively contested
and important cases than he had ever
had. He not only kept an interest in travel
and in community affairs but also main-
tained a loyal and active part as an alum-
nus of Washington and Lee.

1910

J\ves McKim Bett died on January 21,
1g06, in Honolulu, Hawaii. Mr. Bell had
had a very distinguished and influential
career as an engineer in Brazil. After
serving in the U.S. Army in World War I,
he occupied various positions with both
the Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro Light
Companies, rising in the companies until
in 1927 he became General Manager of
the Rio Tramway Light and Power Com-
pany. Upon retirement in 1945, he was
Consultant for Brazilian traction com-
panies throughout Brazil. In 1947 he be-
came executive vice-president of the man-
agement company for Brazilian Traction
Light & Power and a member of the board
and vice-president of its associated com-
panies. Mr. Bell retired in 1951 after 4o
sears of service at which time he was
decorated by the Brazilian government
with the “Cruzeiro do Sul,” rank of “Co-
mendador,” for his services to Brazil.

1911

WILLIAM THARPE, prominent
business, civic and religious leader of
Chattanooga, Tennessee, died on Novem-
ber 7, 1965. Mr. Tharpe started as a
bookkeeper and became part owner of
Hardie & Caudle, men’s clothiers. As a
member of the firm, he helped organize
the Retal Credit Men’s Association in 1919
and served in top-level capacities over the
scars. At various times he was on the
board of the Chamber of Commerce, the
Retail Merchant's Association, the Chatta-
"Noosa Area Safety Council, and the Ki-

CLARENC]

WINTER 1966

wanis Club, Writing editorially, the Chat-
tanooga Times states, “His interests were
broad and his contributions effective in
community affairs... . His death saddens
a host of associates who knew and valued
him as a business leader, a public spirited
citizen, a good friend.”

1912

Rosert I. Monrcomery, a former state
senator and veterans Kings County, Cal-
ifornia, educator died August 4, 1965. He
had been a teacher at the Hanford Union
High School for Hanford, California, some
35 years. In 1952 Mr. Montgomery won
the election as state senator. He declined
to seek a third term in 1960 but retained
an active interest in local politics. He
served as grand marshal of the Kings
County Homecoming Day parade in 1960
and in 1963 was presented an honorary
life membership in the California Asso-
sociation of Secondary School Adminis-
trators. In the senate, Mr. Montgomery
was chairman of the committee on labor
and a member of the water resources,
agriculture and local government commit-
tees. He was also a member of the interim
committees on social welfare and govern-
ment administration,

Ropert Ripy, secretary-treasurer of the
Hoffman Distilling Company in Lawrence-
burg, Kentucky, died on November 10,
1965. After leaving Washington and Lee
he was associated with the Kentucky
River Stone and Sand Company until
1934- In that year Mr. Ripy and his broth-
ers formed the distilling corporation in
which he remained as a stockholder and
officer,

1913

Crow H. Licuirrer, a retired government
attorney, died February 23, 1966. He had
been in the practice of law in Jackson-
ville, Florida, before coming to Washing-
ton, D.C., in 1947. Lichliter served six-
teen years with the Government and at
retirement in 1963 was in the office of the
chief counsel for the Internal Revenue
Service.

CARL Carson Moore of Raphine, Virginia,
died on November 27, 1965. For many
years Mr. Moore was regional sales man-
ager for the Rockwell Manufacturing
Company of Pittsburgh, makers of valves
and meters. In 1963 he retired from the
business world and became a farmer in
the Shenandoah Valley.

1914

Dr. WILLIAM MoseLey Brown died Janu-
uary 8, 1966, in St. Petersburg, Florida.
Brown had a_ distinguished career as
educator and college administrator. He
received the Ph.D. degree from Columbia
Unversity and taught psychology at Wash-
ington and Lee for several years. He was
Independent Republican candidate for
governor of Virginia in 1929. He was pres-
ident of Atlantic University at Virginia

Beach. He served as president of the Vir-
ginia Academy of Sciences and as presi-
dent of the Association of Virginia Col-
leges. In 1949 he went to Elon College as
executive director of the Elon Foundation
and later served as a member of the
Elon faculty until ill health forced his
retirement in 1961. He was widely known
both in America and abroad for his Ma-
sonic work. He was author of several
articles on Masonic history, among them
a Masonic biography of George Washing-
ton. Dr. Brown’s military service includes
tours of duty in both World Wars. He
attained the rank of Lt. Colonel in the
Army Signal Corps. He was one of the
founders of Omicron Delta Kappa which
was established on the Washington and
Lee campus in 1914.

WittiamM Houston Barciay, well known
Lexingtonian, died January 2, 1966, in
the Stonewall Jackson Hospital. Mr. Bar-
clay’s father and grandfather had served
as members of the Board of ‘Trustees of
Washington and Lee. His sisters, Misses
Elizabeth and Mary Barclay, long active
in community affairs, died in 1960. Mr.
Barclay married Miss Martha Jane Hyde
in 191g and moved to Wichita, Kansas,
where he was a florist and engaged in the
life insurance business. He taught Sun-
day schol and was an elder in the First
Presbyterian Church of Wichita for more
than thirty years. Retiring in 1956, Mr.
and Mrs. Barclay returned to Lexington.
For more than forty years he practiced
the art of wood carving. Mr. Barclay was
a member of the Rockbridge Historical
Society and a member of the Lexington
Kiwanis Club. He is buried in the Stone-
wall Jackson Cemetery.

1915

Josern W. Hopces, a practicing attorney
in Silver City, New Mexico, since IQs,
died December 6, 1965. Mr. Hodges was
a member of the New Mexico State Senate
from 1923 to 1925 and was District At-
torney for the Sixth Judicial District
from 1933 to 1948.

1916

Dr. Roperr Preston H AWKINS, ]R., asso-
ciate in surgery and chief of orthopedics
at CXO Hospital in Clifton Forge, Vir-
ginia, died February 27, 1966, after a
heart attack. Dr. Hawkins had been on
the C&O Hospital staff for more than forty
years. He was past-president of the C&O
Surgeons Association; served a number of
years on the Clifton Forge School Board
of which he was a past chairman; was a
director and vice-president of the Moun-
tain National Bank in Clifton Forge; and
was a fellow in the American College of
Surgeons.

1917

EDWARD SimpsoN SmitrH died in Tulsa.
Oklahoma, on February 11, 1966, after
several years illness with a heart condi-

49

tion. In World War I he served with dis-
tinction and then entered the oil busi-
ness. As department manager for various
oil companies, he had lived in such cities
as Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, and ‘Tul-
sa where he made his home.

1918

Warrer W. Preston, a lawyer of Braden-
ton, Florida, died in the fall of 1965.

James J. Izaxp of Roanoke died on Feb-
ruary 7, 1916, while on vacation in Lido
Beach, Florida. Mr. Izard had been in the
insurance firm of Charles Lunsford Sons
and Izard since 1926 and had served as a
consultant since his retirement several)
years ago. He was a former president of
the Roanoke Chamber of Commerce, the
Roanoke Community Fund, and the Vir-
ginia Association of Insurance Agents. At
the time of his death he was a member
of the board of directors of Peoples Feder-
al Savings and Loan Association, the
Colonial-American National Bank, the
Stone Printing and Manufacturing Com-
pany and the Roanoke Gas Company.

JOHN HOWARD STEPHENSON died from a
heart attack at his home in Vanderpool,
Virginia, on November 29, 1965. He was
a livestock dealer and farmer and promin-
ent in church and civic affairs in Highland
County, Virginia. Mr. Stephenson was a
brother of Roscoe B. STEPHENSON, ’o8, and
a son of Oscar A. STEPHENSON of the class

of 1868.
1919

Lours Armisteap McMurray died on Feb-
ruary 2, 1966, in Martinsburg, West Vir-
vinia. Mr. McMurray had spent thirty-
eight years as a missionary in the Repub-
lic of the Congo, retiring in 1961 because
of health reasons. He was a pioneer in
education in the Congo and tounded the
first prostgraduate theological — school
there. A Bible translator, he completed a
translation of the Old ‘Testament last year
to a modern version of the principal
language of the Kasai area of the Congo.
Washington and Lee bestowed an honor-
ary doctor’s degree upon Mr. McMurray
in 1946.

LAWRENCE WINFIELD MorGAN, prominent
lawyer of Brownsville, Tennessee, died on
December 6, 1965. Mr. Morgan served in
the Tennessee State Senate for two terms
and was speaker of the Senate in 1945.
For many years he was active in the
Tennessee Tuberculosis and Health As-
sociation and was treasurer for eight years
of the Tennessee Society for Crippled
Children. He was chairman of the board
of directors of the Brownsville Bank, past
president of the Brownsville Rotary Club,
and past commander of the American
Legion.

1923

Harry Grorce Loncsuorr, chief design
engineer and former supervisor of opera-

50

GABRIEL pre ta HABA, ‘17
died March 8 in San Juan,
Puerto Rico, just two days al-
ter he represented Washington
and Lee University at the in-
auguration of Raymond B.
Hoxeng as president of the
Inter American University of
Puerto Rico at San German.

Mr. de la Haba was a dis-
tinguished attorney in San
Juan. Despite the distance
that separated him from his
Alma Mater, he was a devoted
son of Washington and Lee.

President Hoxeng wrote to
President Cole that Mr. de la
Haba was not feeling well on
the day of the inauguration
ceremony, but that he had re-
marked that he would fulfill
his responsibilty as his Univer-
sity’s representative “if it is the
last thing I do.”

tions for ‘Texaco, Inc., in Puerto Rico,
died June 24, 1965, in Corpus Christi,
‘Texas.

1924

Dr. JeRoME Pittow Lone, JR., died Octob-
er 10, 1965, after a long illness. Dr.
Long made an outstanding record as a
physician with the Navy Department
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery.

EpwArRD RAYMOND MrrcHett, civil engi-
neer supervisor of the Atlantic Division of
the Nacy Bureau of Yards and Docks, died
December 20, 1965, in Virginia Beach. A
native of Richmond, he had lived in
the Tidewater area since 1938.

1925

KENNETH FRANKLIN Hitt of Wayne, Penn-
sylvania, died on January 12, 1966. Mr.
Hill had taught in various schools in-
cluding Soochow University in China,
Castle Heights Military Academy in Ten-
nessee, and since 1932 had been director
of admissions at Valley Forge Military
Academy in Wayne.

1927

Roperr JAMes WittiAms died December
18 in Stuttgart, Kansas, while on a duck
hunting trip. Mr. Williams was an execu-
tive with the Birmingham Rail and Loco-
motive Company.

1929

JOUN PARKER GARDNER, a lawyer, died in

Odessa, Florida, on November 21, 1965.

1931

LAwkeNceE W. Wetver deid on November
15, 1965. Mr. Weller had been in the
employ of the Independent Pneumatic
‘Tool Company in Birmingham, Alabama,
for many years.

FREDERICK SUTTON ANDERSON died Septem-
ber 13, 1965, in Trenton, New Jersey. He
had been employed by the Public Serv-
ice Electric and Gas Company for the
past twenty-eight years.

1937

BENJAMIN Lockwoop Ops of Rexford,
New York, died on August 20, 1965. Mr,
Olds was an associate editor of Family
Circle Magazine.

1939

FRANK BREEN O'CONNOR died of a cerebal
hemmorrhage in New London, Connecti-
cut, on November 18, 1965. Mr. O'Connor
was General Superintendent of the plant
of the Electric Boat Company, Division of
general dynamics, at Groton, Connecticut,
He was past president of the New Lon-
don Junior Chamber of Commerce and
president of the New London Board of
Compensation.

1942

Lorentz ‘TricG Wueire, Jr, died in
Raleigh, North Carolina, in January, 1966,
He was president of the Motor Bearings
& Parts Company of Raleigh a wholesale
firm dealing in automotive parts and
equipment,

1948

Jack Lestir GrossMAN died on November
1g, 1965, in Baltimore, Maryland. Mr.
Grossman, a specialist in corporate and tax
law, was a partner in the firm of Wein-
berg and Green, one of the largest law
firms in Maryland. At one time he also
served as assistant city solicitor for the
City of Baltimore.

1949

SAMUEL JUSTIN BRACKENS died on June
13, 1965, in Chesapeake, Virginia.

1951

Wittiam Tatsorr Ettison died at the
home of his mother in Waynesboro, Vir-
ginia, on December 4, 1965. Mr. Ellison
had been in the real estate business in
Waynesboro for a number of years. In
World War IL he fought in the European
Theater of Operations and received the
Purple Heart, the Bronze Star, and high
military honors from Holland. He was
closely associated with a number of youth
groups in Waynesboro, including the Boy
Scouts and the FMS Rifle team.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

burg president-elect Roperr C. Woop, Jr., “21L, left, and chapte president Bertram R. SCHEWEL. ‘41, right, present the dis-
tinguished alumnus citation to Lewis F. PowELL, JR., "29.

News of The Chapters

Lynchburg Chapter’s
Distinguished Alumnus
Award Is Presented
lo ‘Trustee Powell

1g66

LYNCHBURG

# A RECORD NUMBER Of alumni at-
tended the annual dinner meeting
at the Boonsboro Country Club on
March gnd. The principal speaker
lor the occasion was Lewis F. Pow-
ell, Jr., "29, the immediate past pres-
ident of the American Bar Associa-
tion and a distinguished member of
Washington and Lee’s Board of
Trustees. Other guests included
University President Fred C. Cole,
Dean Charles P. Light of the Law
School, and Bill Washburn, ’4o,
executive secretary of the Alumni
Association. The Sazeracs, a Wash-
ington and Lee student singing
group, entertained following din-
ner.

Presiding at the meeting was
Chapter President Bertram R.
Schewel, °41. A treasurer’s report
was made by William V. Giles, 61,
followed by brief status reports on
the Alumni House Fund campaign
by Washburn on the national scale
and Giles for the Lynchburg area.

Highlight of the evening was the
presentation of Lynchburg’s annual

~

51

 

award citation to a distinguished
alumnus. This year’s award went
to Mr. Powell. In his remarks to
the assembled alumni, Mr. Powell
gave a thumb-nail sketch of the
state of the University, with par-
ticular sidelights as seen from his
position as a member of the Board
ol Trustees.

In the short business session be-
lore adjourning the meeting, Pres-
ident Schewel recognized James E.
McCausland, ‘43, chairman of the
nominating committee. The follow-
ing men were nominated and unan-
imously elected: President R. C.
Weed, Jr., “21; Vice President S. J.
Thompson, ‘57; and Secretary-
‘Treasurer William V. Giles, ’61.

DANVILLE

# FOLLOWING a reception at the
Chatt Moss Country Club, the al-
umni of the Danville Chapter had
a dinner meeting on March 11th.
Several men from Martinsville
were hosts at the reception, and
Douglas Frith presided over the

~-

52

banquet meeting. An up-to-date re-
port on the progress of the Alumni
House campaign was made by Bill
Washburn, Executive Secretary ol
the Alumni Association.

Ryland Dodson proposed a reso-
lution of respect for R. Paul San-
ford, outstanding lawyer and de-
voted alumni member of the Dan-
ville Chapter, who died September
17, 1965. The resolution was sec-
onded by Irvin W. Cubine of Mar-
tinsville and was unanimously ap-
proved. It was directed that the
President send a copy of the resolu-
Paul

Santord, as well as to the Alumni

tion to the widow. Mrs. R.

Secretary of Washington and Lee
University.

After a discussion on the Alum-
ni House campaign and a few re-
marks about the present activities
on campus, an election was held

ofhcers were
. Ryland Dod-
Ringgold; Vice President

and the following
named: President J
son, °46,
F. Nelson Light, 52, Chatham; and
J. Willard

,0Ston.

Secretary Greer, ‘49,

South

-

> ,
4 A record number of

fe
yf
; Lynchburg area alum-

: :
ni turned out to hear
Lewis F. POWELL, JR.,
‘29, Speak at the an-

nual dinner meeting of
the chapter.

HOUSTON

B® UNDER THE DIRECTION Of Robert
I. Peeples, ‘57, chapter president,
a meeting of prospective students
from the Houston area was held at
the River Oaks Country Club on
16th. Bill

from Lexington, representing the

November Washburn

hand
with a recent film strip on Wash-

Admissions Office. was on

ington and Lee designed especially
for interested high school students.

Later a general meeting of the
alumni was held in the main din-
ing room of the River Oaks Coun-
try Club with a large group of al-
umni and their wives and parents
of present students at Washington
and Lee. President Peeples made a
report on the Milton Morrison Me-
morial Fund, which was established
in memory of A. Milton Morrison,
‘35. A check representing the bal-
ance in the memorial fund was
presented to Mr. Washburn to be
held by the University until further
Houston
chapter. After discussing the fund

instructions from the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

with Mrs. Morrison, President
Peeples advised the group that it is
ihe desire of the chapter to pur-
hase a set Of books for the library
memory of Mr. Morrison.
[he following officers were elect-
for the coming year: President

lemple Webber, ’54; Vice Presi-

dent Gordon Gooch, ’56; Treasurer

Fox Benton, ‘60; and Secretary
Fred “Buzz” Griffin, ’6o.
\{ter a brief progress report on
\lumnt House by Mr. Wash-
burn, he showed some excellent

color slides of the University.

TULSA

= THE ALUMNI of the Tulsa area

for the election of officers and

a stag party March 17, at the home

of William H. Daniel, ’38. Eric C.

Hubert, “51, Outgoing president,
pr sided.

Dr. R. Chadwick Johnson, °4,
was elected president for the com-
ing year; John C. Davis, 53, vice-
president, and Robert H. Larue,
lr., 58, treasurer. Other officers
elected were J. Barry Epperson, ’60,
secretary; William H. Daniel and
Neal E. McNeil. iL
iertainment committee; and Law-

\. G. Johnson, 55, and G.

‘50, as the en-

PCC!"
Bert Tyler, 59, as the public rela-
tions committee.

took place on _ the
tulsa Chapter’s part in the Alum-
ni House project. Plans also were

Discussion

made for future meetings.

WINTER

Lgbd6

PENSACOLA

® THE ANNUAL fall cocktail party,
sponsored by the Pensacola Alum-
ni, was held at the Pensacola Coun-
try Club on the evening of Novem-
ber 18th. Guests for the evening
were Lewis John, Assistant Dean
of Students and Director of Student
Financial Aid at Washington and
Lee, and Bill Washburn, Executive
secretary of the Alumni Associa-
tion.

During the program arranged by
William  H.
Clark, Jr., 60, Dean John reviewed

chapter president,
his visit during the afternoon with
the local high schools and some of
the prospective applicants to Wash-
ington and Lee. President Clark
urged the membership to continue
their interest in the recruitment
of promising young men for the
University.

Bill Washburn gave a report on
the Alumni House Program and
explained the operation of the spe-
cial financial campaign for this
program. Color slides of the Uni-
versity were also shown. Before ad-
journment a proposal was made
to consider a chapter outing in the
spring.

SAN ANTONIO

# AFTER VISITING with prospective
Washington and Lee applicants at
Texas Military Institute and at
Alamo Heights High School, Bill
Washburn, Executive Secretary of

 

the Alumni Association, met with
the San Antonio alumni on Novem-
ber 17th at the San Antonio Coun-
try Club. Arrangements were made
by president Robert Seal, ’44.

Ihe group was interested in
hearing a report on the Alumni
House Campaign for which Nor-
man Fischer, '46, is the San Anton-
io Chairman. After a presentation
of color slides on the recent devel-
opments on the Washington and
Lee campus, there followed an elec-
tion of officers at which Ganahl
Walker, ‘40, was named the new
incoming president. The meeting
adojurned after a full period of
questions and answers.

NORFOLK

# DR. G. WILLIAM WHITEHURST, ‘50,
Dean olf Students of Old Dominion
College, was the principal speaker
at an alumni luncheon on Decem-
ber gth at the Monticello Hotel.
Thomas R.

vice-president of the chapter, in-

McNamara, ’52-Law,

troduced Dr. Whitehurst whose in-
teresting topic was entitled “Per-
ils of a Dean.”

Presiding at the meeting was
Townsend Oast, ’51, president of
the chapter, who, together with
McNamara, had made the splendid
arrangements. Plaudits were given
to Sam R. Ames, ’42, secretary of
the chapter, upon his recent elec-
tion as president of the Norfolk
Chamber of Commerce.

At the Norfolk chapter meet
ing, l-r, SAMUEL R. AMEs, 42,
Dr. C. WILLIAM WHITEHURST,
‘50, dean of students at Old
College, chapter
LOWNSEND OAST,
‘51, and chapter vice presi-
ident THOMAS R. McCNAMa.

Dominion
py esident

Bill Washburn, executive secre-
tary of the Alumni Association,
was on hand and gave a full report
on the Alumni House, urging the
participation of the Norfolk mem-
bership in this project.

PIEDMON I

gs COACH LEE MC LAUGHLIN was the
guest speaker at a fall meeting ol
the alumni of the Piedmont Chap-
ter on December grd at the Swain’s
Charcoal Steak House in Greens-
boro, attended by a large num-
ber of alumni, wives and dates.
Arrangements for the meeting

were made by Hugh Bonino, ‘36,

 

the outgoing president of the chap-
it the Piedmont chapter meeting, l-r, DAvID C. SWANN, ‘63, head football coach Lei ter, and Walter L. Hannah, 50.
McLAUGHLIN, and WALTER L. HANNAH, ‘50. Bill Washburn, Executive Sec-
retary of the Association, was on
hand to explain in detail the Al-
umni House campaign. In addi-
tion to Bonino and Hannah, Char-
les Roth, ’g7, is co-chairman for the
city of Greensboro and James R.
Fain, Jr., °49, for Winston-Salem.
Mr. Hannah, chairman of the
nominating committee for a new
slate of officers, presented the fol-

lowing for nomination and they

 

| | a , were elected unanimously: Presi-
The ladies were welcome additions to the Piedmont af le :

fair. Here, l-r, are Mrs. Hucu Bontno, Mrs. D. NEWTON dent Royce Hough, ‘59; Vice Presi-
FARNELL, JR., and Mrs. WALTER HANNAH. dent Hugh s,onino, °36; Secretary-
Treasurer Walter Hannah, ‘50;

and for the board of directors,
Charles E. Roth, ‘37; James R.
Fain, Jr., °49; Dr. William W.
Trigg, Jr., ‘49; Joseph L. Craycroft,
Jr., 59; Thomas D. Cooper, Jr.,
‘49; and John W. McGehee, Jr., 43.

In his remarks Coach McLaugh-
lin gave a run-down on the past
football season and a brief review
of the future prospects. Coupled
with Coach McLaughlin’s remarks
was a showing of the movies of the
Homecoming football game against
Guilford College.

The meeting adjourned with the
new president, Royce Hough, tak-

ing charge and expressing thanks

 

on behallt of the entire chapte1 for
the leadership and tireless efforts

Representatives of different student decades at Washington and Lee: l-r, HuGH BONINO,
‘96, D. NEWTON FARNELL, '24, and GIL BOCETTI, °54-

of Hugh Bonino.

7 PHE ALUMNI MAGAZINI]I

 

RICHMOND

= ALUMNI Of the Richmond Chap-
ter were pleased to have “An Eve-
ning with Lom Wolfe” on Decem-
ber 16th. The outstanding event
was held at the Commonwealth
Club, beginning with a reception.
Belore the appearance of the guest
speaker, Chapter President Walter
VicGraw,

and OuestLS.

55, welcomed the alumni

\ir. Wolfe is a noted columnist
New York Herald Tribune,
a native of Richmond having been
student at St. Christo-

for the

a torme}
pher’s, and a 1951 graduate of
Washington and Lee. His talk. de-
livered in his own distinctive style,
was received with great interest.
Lhe occasion also served as a
report to the alumni on the present
project tor the Alumni House on
House Fund co-chairmen,
William H. Abeloff, ‘57, and A.

Chris Compton, ’50, presided over

Callipus

the mes ting.
ST. LOUIS

® THE SCORE at the end of the W&I-.
vs. Washington University football

Stine was Washington University
34 and the Generals 22. But this

did not dampen the fine reception
PuC on by the St. Louis alumni
chapte: lor the members of the

team. 7 allair was held immedi-

WINTER 1006

 

Guest speaker ToM WOLerY,
‘51, journalist and author,
was greeted by a large turn-
out of Richmond area alumni
at the Commonwealth Club.
Top left, Roperr W. WIn-
BORNE, ‘15, and Puiwip }).
SHARP, ‘81. Bottom left, Syp-
NEY Lewis, '40, and WALTER
H. WILLIAMS, JR., “40. Af
right, Mr. WoL¥re delights the
audience in his after-dinner
remarks, and below, he
makes a point with JOHN IF.
KAY, JR., “51, J. MAURICE MIL-
LER, JR., ‘45, and A. Curets
r1AN COMPTON, ‘50.

 

 

 

ately following the football game
West and Coach
McLaughlin and_ his

at Schneithorst
boys were
present,

Many

were hosts at the reception stayed

alumni and dates who
for dinner and expressed the wel-
come and the thanks of the St.
Louis alumni. Warren Isaacs, ‘57,
president, Charles Blackledge, ‘38,
secretary, and Bruce Bussen, ‘56,
treasurer, presided at the successful
party.

LOUISVILLE

® LOUISVILLE AND Central Kentucky

alumni, their wives and _ friends,
turned out in record numbers to
hear Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw, head
of the Washington and Lee History
Department, during his visit to
Louisville on February 22nd.

Dr. Crenshaw’s visit with the
Kentuckians was timed to coincide
with a Washington’s Birthday Din-
ner. Recognizing Washington and
Lee’s great heritage, made doubly
appropriate on the anniversary of
Washington's birth date, Dr. Cren-
shaw brought the alumni up to date
on the many facets of campus life
and University development today.
Interspersed among reports on cur-
riculum, admissions policy, conven-

tional dress, athletics and other top-

50

ics were generous helpings of those
wonderful anecdotes that onlv a
“Prot”

spin!

named Crenshaw could

Following Dr. Crenshaw’s talk,
several alumni presented him
awards, one of which named him
an honorary Kentucky Colonel.

The evening ended with stirring
vocalizing by all present of “The
Swing” and “College Friendships,”
led by Judge Davis who was as-
sisted by Charlie “Fingers” Cast-
ner at the piano.

MOBILE

= THE WASHINGTON and Lee alumni
of Mobile
luncheon on November 1igth at the
Athelstan Club. Bill Washburn,
who was completing a week's tour

gathered for a_ stag

of alumni chapters, was the special
guest. He presented the latest news
of the campus and made a special
report on the Alumni House Pro-
oram.
B. R.

man of the

(Babe) Wilson, 32, chair-
Mobile House cam-
paign, made an appeal to all of the
members for their special atten-
tion to this project. Following the
luncheon Sage Lyons, ‘60, and Bill
Washburn visited the University
Military

School and _ interviewed

Louisville alumni made
Dr. OLLINGER CRENSHAW,
‘25, an honorary Kentucky
Colonel when he visited
the chapter this winter. L-
v chapte ’ president MARK
B. Davis, ‘56, JUDGE Ber-
NARD (Dusty) DAvIs, ‘33
Dr. CRENSHAW, and JOHN

J. DAvViIs, 39.

oc
.

the prospectiy eC applicants to Wash-
ington and Lee.

NORTH TEXAS

@ THE NORTH TEXAS Chapte (Dal-
las-Ft. Worth)
membership with a dinner on Nov-

entertained then

ember 15th at the Inn of the Six
Flags. A cocktail hour preceded the
dinner.

Chapter President Maury Pur-
presided at the meeting
where Bill

nell ’61,
Washburn, Executive
Secretary of the Alumni Associa-
tion, was guest and principal speak-
er.

During the day, accompanied by
C. M. “Pat” Patrick, ’55, Clay Ber-
‘95, Wash-
burn visited several high schools in
the Dallas-Ft. Worth area, where

ry, 50 and Sam Cantey,

prospective students were shown a
recent filmstrip about Washington
and Lee.

Bill also reported on the Alum-
ni House campaign, and Van Alen
Hollomon, ‘’28, vice-chairman of
the Alumni House Campaign for
the ‘Texas chapters, made a special
appeal to the membership for their
participation in this program. The
alumni were pleased to see a series
of color slides depicting the up-to-

date views of the campus.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

The Washington and Lee Chair

with crest in five colors

 

This chair is made from northern birch and rock maple—hand-rubbed
in black and gold trim (arms finished in cherry). A perfect gift for
Christmas, birthday, anniversary or wedding. A beautiful addition to
any room in your home. All profit from the sale of this chair goes to

the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

Mail your order to:
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia

Price $32.50 f.0.b. Gardner, Massachusetts

(reflecting an increase in cost by manufacturer effective July 1, 1966)

 

 

 

