 

ALUMNUS

 

 

 

4 »
os -

THE FLOODS OF AUGUST

 

WASHINGTON ann LEE ALUMNUS

VOLUME 44 NUMBER 5 OcTOBER 1969

CONTENTS
1 The Floods of August

6 A Faculty Reading Sampler

10 Shenandoah Enters Third Decade
12 Technology and Libraries

13 Campus News

19 Three New Trustees Elected

21 Class Notes

24 In Memoriam

COVER

The Chesapeake & Ohio Railway trestle which
carried a spur track through the ravine on the
Washington and Lee campus was swept into a
mass of twisted wreckage by the surging Maury
River—evidence of the awesome power of the Au-
gust floods in Virginia. Lexington suffered little
damage except for flooded basements, a broken
raw water main, and loss of the trestle. But sur-
rounding areas were hard hit. A report on the flood
and its aftermath starts on Page 1.

Cover Photo by Al Orgain, second-year law student.

EDITOR: William C. Washburn, ’40
MANAGING EDITOR: Romulus T. Weatherman

ASSOCIATE EDITOR AND PHOTOGRAPHER:
A. Michael Philipps, '64

EDITORIAL ASSISTANT: Mrs. foyce Carter

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC:
Fred Bartenstein, Jr., 41, President

John M. Jones, III, '37, Vice-President
William C. Washburn, ’40, Secretary

Charles F. Clarke, Jr., ’38, Treasurer

BOARD OF DIRECTORS: Fred Bartenstein, Jr., "41;
Upton Beall, ’51; Joe F. Bear, "33; Charles F. Clarke, Jr.,
'38: A. Christian Compton, '50; Warren H. Edwards, '39;
John M. Jones, III, '37; S. L. Kopald, Jr., '43; Edward
H. Ould, ’29; Emil L. Rassman, "41; Beauregard A.
Redmond, '55; Richard H. Turrell, ‘49.

1 in ceerwer April, June, August, October, and
aoe by Wash hineton aad Lee University Alumni Inc.,
Lexington, OF aie 3 24450. All communications and POD Forms
or seca be sent to ante on and Lee University Alumni,

Inc. teases gton, vee Second class postage paid at
Lexin Virgini a, with additional mailing privileges at
Roanoke virginia, and Washington, .

 

   
    
    
      
   
  
    
   
 

President Huntley devoted his remarks at opening
assembly largely to a report on the progress of planning
for new and improved physical facilities. The planning
is formidable: expansion of the gymnasium, constructic n
of a new library, conversion of the old library into a home
for the School of Commerce, construction of a ne .
building for the School of Law, construction of new up-
perclass dormitory units. “I can report good progres $
has been made in these planning efforts,’ he said. And to y
a good end. a

eanyecal’ facilities do not make up the life’s blood of 2
a university,’ ’ he asserted. ‘College presidents, I am told,
are given to the occupational hazard of coming to regard ;
brick and mortar as the heart of their institutions. . . .—
I hope we have not been, and will not be, guilty of that —
syndrome. The life’s blood of this University is its people —
—its faculty and its students. We can indeed point a
pride to these assets and continue indeed to make our —
aspiration one of providing for them the fullest educa- —
tional opportunity of which we are capable.”

But, he went on, it is through the window of physical ~
planning that one might glimpse the kinds of questions,
problems, and decisions which the University faces now
and in the years ahead. These matters, too, are formid-
able. They involve maintenance of curricular wealth,
the size of the University, coeducation, adequate faculty —
compensation, diversification of the student body, finan- —
cial aid for students, the need for increased endowment, ~
and myriad other affairs affecting the quality of the Uni- 4
versity. The President could well say: ““We will have in —
the years immediately ahead and in the decade ahead a ©
pressing need for large financial resources.” And almost —
in the same breath: “I am ne however, pessimistic about —
the future in this respect.’’

He reported that the University received last year
about $2 million in gifts and pledges with an equal
additional amount committed for the future, and “we
expect this year to be better than last.” Still, he aan a
that while these sums are large “they are on ay
small step toward achieving a longer range goal. .. .”” He | ;
said that the University will seek financial assistance —
wherever it can find it, including government to the
extent such aid is available, although this source can_
meet only a fraction of major needs. He added: 4

“It is clear that it is through private philanthropy —
and principally through our alumni and friends—it is to — 3
these people that we must turn. It is to these that we
have turned in the past. They have not abandoned us,
and all indications, I believe, APE: that their interest is-
quickening in these current years.” J

Therein lie the President’s optimism and the best q
hope of Washington and Lee.

co
2

a

-
af

a

»y i
f

reATURE 1

Whole Trees Went By, Garbage Cans, and Even a House

Mickey Philipps, ’64, associate editor of the Alumnus,
was more than a mere observer of the surprise flood that
devasted wide areas of Virginia in .mid-August. Hts
apartment on the banks of the Maury River was flooded
waist deep. Here he gives a personal account of that ex-
perience as well as a report on the havoc and horror the
flood created in the vicinity of Lexington and beyond.

The day of August 19 was ending in routine fashion.
It was about 10 o'clock at night and raining outside,
and I tried to ignore a leaking window right above me.
It always leaks in a heavy rain.

Tired from reading, I was just about to doze off when
I heard a series of banging noises out in the yard. When
the clamor continued, I got up to find my landlord, Bill
Bean, a Washington and Lee graduate of the class of
1951, was having a rough go at trying to move two
aluminum canoes to higher ground.

Dressed, I went out to help. I found that the rain had
swollen the Maury River to the point that it was gradu-
ally creeping up the backyard, and soon would be up
to the canoes, maybe go feet from the river bank.

So we pulled them out of the way, up a 10-foot sloping
bank and onto a higher landing. We had done it many
times before, usually in the spring when thawing moun-
tain snows and frequent showers force the Maury, once
the North River, up 100 feet of sloping grass to the base
of two-story apartments Bill owns in the country.

Bean’s River Bottom, or just Bean’s Bottom as it’s
called, is located some three miles from Lexington on
the Old Road to Goshen. The Maury River, usually just
a trickle in the summer, parallels the road, and in be-
tween for about 150 feet, Bill has built a number of
small apartment houses.

After the canoes were secured, we walked up to the
first house to survey a torrent of water that was pouring
off a hill across the road. Although it had been raining
for only an hour or so, the amount of water coming off
the hill was quite unusual, the first time we had seen
it in such volume.

Evidently, an unusually wet August had so saturated
the ground the soil couldn’t hold any more. This also
explained why the river had started to rise so quickly.
The heavy August rainfall had been a blessing to the
county’s agricultural areas—most of the crops were com-
ing in early, a boon to the local economy. It was differ-
ent from most summers when droughts are common and
taken for granted.

Around midnight, it became apparent that water was
going to seep into the basement apartments, three of
which were relatively free of personal belongings, ex-

cept for some furniture. The fourth was full of furni-
ture and clothes, and Bill decided to do what he could
to get everything off the floor.

At that time, no one had any idea of what was to
come, so no real consideration was given to evacuating
the apartments. The river had risen before, but only to
a level just beneath the basement apartment doors. Going
by past experiences, we were just waiting for the river to
crest, which we figured to be sometime soon.

Usually, the Maury reaches its peak about 12 hours
after it stops raining, depending on predictable condi-
tions upstream where at least a score of small tributaries
flow into the river. But conditions were so confused and
contrary this time that the 12-hour rule didn’t appear
to apply, especially since the river had risen so high so
fast. The consensus was that it couldn’t possibly rise any
more, despite the rain.

At four in the morning of August go, the storm finally
broke, the dying remnants of Hurricane Camille that
had devasted Louisiana and Mississippi earlier and which
was to lay waste to much of central Virginia as it passed
out to sea. By that time, water had completely sur-
rounded three houses up to the ceiling height of the
bottom apartments, and it was quickly rising to the
upper units.

Between midnight and three, a law student and his
wife next door in a top apartment were roused from
sleep, as were several families along the river. One family
sleeping in a camper wouldn’t answer their door, prob-
ably fearing intruders. Finally, the wife responded, most
appreciative when she leaned out the door and saw water
lapping around the wheels of the pickup truck.

A man with a home along the banks of Kerrs Creek, a
tributary about a half mile upstream from Bean’s Bot-
tom, was more pragmatic about it. When law student Al
Orgain remembered the farmer kept a field tiller on low
bottom land, he decided to go up and warn the man
about the rising water and the possibility that the tiller
would go under.

Coming to the door wearing nothing more than a
five-day beard, the farmer told Al in the simplest of
rural language that the tiller had long since been moved,
that he’d seen the creek higher, and, thank you, he was
going back to bed.

From four o'clock on, there was nothing to do but
drink coffee and stand idly by. Every now and then we
would debate whether to move things out of the top
apartments, but always came to the conclusion that the
water would never get that high. It was by then a false
assumption, but everyone seemed to stick to it.

By 7:30, three and a half hours after the rain stopped,
the river had finally crested. Water rose four feet in the

 

2. FEATURE

AAA

 

Water from the Maury River had completely inundated the lower apartments at Bean’s Bottom as dawn broke, and
the river was still some three feet from cresting. Flooding also swamped a car across the road, apparently the victim of a
wrong turn, (Photographs by Al Orgain.)

Rs fo) ee ee

> ta A -

es natn + emcee emg ap “

are
oe
-

 

     

eon

    

: Ye << 54 +e —_ ee
ae A Ciere *

ie gamete
a apharmtin Ah ct= Sag RL ALO ee a
: < , - - . a
fous. * > b 4 ;* .

.
$.c« o* +2

top apartments, or roughly 25-30 feet above the Maury’s
normal level. Looking out over the vast body of water
that completely covered the area, we watched whole trees
being carried downstream, garbage cans by the dozen,
signs, and even a complete home.

To our right we could hear the first house creaking
and groaning under the powerful force that was pushing
against it, and there was considerable concern it might
be completely washed away. Fortunately, though, it
held, although it suffered great damage.

Compared to other parts of Rockbridge County, par-
ticularly Buena Vista, Glasgow, and the South River area,
and the whole of Nelson County, our troubles were
slight.

In Nelson County, a beautifully scenic valley area
that can best be observed from the top of Afton Moun-
tain just past Waynesboro, the flash flooding caught many
people asleep. In all, 27 inches of rain fell that night (the
official recorded measurement, although some _ reports
had it as high as ge inches), swelling the once-pastoral
Tye and Piney Rivers into raging currents that swept
away asphalt roads, concrete bridges, and houses by the
score.

And those who weren’t hit by water were trapped
under frequent landslides of mud and debris. Places like
Massies Mill, Davis Creek, and Lovingston, unheard of
little farming settlements where houses are perched
along hillsides, were hit by utter devastation.

In Nelson County alone, 88 persons lost their lives
that night, countless more were injured, and there are
still 46 missing, probably never to be found under tons of
earth.

Generations of families were lost, and in tragic num-
ber: the Huffmans—four dead and 18 missing; the Perrys
—eight missing; the Martins—five missing; the Burnleys—
five missing.

Massies Mill, once just an unfamiliar dot on the map
—a rural community of two churches, several homes, a
post office, and a couple of stores—became even more
unfamiliar Wednesday morning with just a lone sur-
viving building.

In the Buena Vista-Glasgow area of Rockbridge
County, three rivers and Irish Creek contributed to dam-
age estimated in multi-million dollar figures and the loss
of 18 lives (five were still missing in late September).

Up in the George Washington National Forest—east,
northeast of Buena Vista,—the confluence of Irish Creek
and the South River created havoc in the area around
the small community of Cornwall, and also the area
above Cornwall where Irish Creek and the South River
come down from the mountains.

Stories of heroism and just plain luck came out of
Cornwall days later, such as the one of the Coleman
Bryant family who lived between the confluence. Around
nine o'clock, Bryant’s wife Betty received a phone call
warning the family to leave their house, a one-story frame

FEATURE Sd

dwelling.

When Bryant went to look for a way out, he dis-
covered water had already risen so high it was impossible
to evacuate. In time, when it appeared that his house was
going to be flooded, he knocked a hole in his ceiling
(some say with his hands) and moved his wife and three
children, along with his wife’s parents, into the attic.

From there, Bryant, heard the house below being
torn away in sections. Two rooms were ripped away, a
side wall disappeared, and a tree rammed through the
bathroom window. Miraculously, though, enough of the
house which he built himself held up, and he and his
family were lifted out by rescue helicopter the next
morning.

Other families weren't so fortunate. Silas Clark, who
lived down the South River from Bryant, and six other
members of his family were lost (one is still missing). A
wounded son back from Vietnam was one of the victims.

From Cornwall, the South River cascaded down
towards Buena Vista, entering the Maury a few miles
above town. Along the course, the destruction was typical
of that seen in every county hit by the flood. Houses were
demolished, cars were perched in trees well above
ground, dead livestock littered the river banks, and rail-
road cars picked up from their tracks were dumped in
fields hundreds of yards away.

In Buena Vista, loss to property was particularly
acute, especially along the Maury where half a dozen
industries are located. Preliminary damage to that area
was put at $10 million, although the loss is expected to go
much higher as more exact estimates are made.

During the days immediately after the flood, reports
came in that workers in some plants killed copperhead
snakes seeking refuge in their buildings, and one firm
claimed it dumped out 50 tons of mud a day for a week
in an effort to get back to full production.

Downtown, blocks away from the river, stores were
completely under water, and looting became a problem
for a couple of nights. Reports said that people were
taking boats right into the stores, loading merchandise,
and then speeding out.

Further downriver in Glasgow where the Maury joins
the James River, the small town of 1,200 had to contend
with flooding from both. The Maury hit Glasgow early
Wednesday morning, putting the low-lying community
under water for the first time, and the James crested
sometime in the dark morning hours of Thursday, main-
taining the flood level when it should have been re-
ceding.

Death to Glasgow families came in high numbers, too.
Wednesday morning, a member of the Glasgow First Aid
Crew happened to notice something sticking out of the
water, but it didn’t appear to be a tree or stump. Heading
over in a boat to investigate, the crew found seven-year-
old Myra Jean Rion hanging onto a makeshift board-
and-hay raft.

 

A FEATURE

 

The South River area of Rockbridge County was one of the worst hit sections. An example is the farm property above where
water destroyed a car and tore apart a barn. An old railroad depot in Buena Vista, close to the Maury, buckled under

pressure but survived. (Photographs by John Hughes.)

 

When it appeared certain their homes were going
under Tuesday night, Ernie Rion, his wife, Myra Jean,
and a three-year-old son joined Homer Hayes, his wife,
and their 19-year-old daughter and 10-year-old son on the
raft the two men had hastily prepared. During the night,
the current tore away everyone except Myra Jean, who
miraculously hung on until she was rescued. In a terrible
twist of fate, the houses the two families had evacuated
upstream were still standing the following morning.

And so it went up and down the James River Basin,
the worst natural disaster to hit Virginia. The state death
count reached 109, with 49 missing, and a conservative
damage estimate was put at $113 million by Gov. Mills
E. Godwin in declaring central Virginia a disaster area.

Several days later, President Richard M. Nixon de-
clared Virginia a national disaster area, and he authorized
an initial outlay of a million dollars in federal assistance
funds. The Small Business Administration stepped in to
offer low-interest loans to individuals and businesses for
rebuilding.

Military units with helicopters were rushed to hard-
hit areas to provide evacuation and food-drop services,
and the Red Cross was there with clothing, food, and
other assistance. Locally, service clubs, churches, schools,
and volunteer groups united to offer help.

And finally there were the people from the outside
such as the Mennonites from Pennsylvania who came
down for the clean-up operation. They would divide
into small groups and take one house at a time, cleaning
and scrubbing each one until thoroughly repaired. Then,
they would go on to the next.

Much of the work still goes on. Of course, some areas
probably never will recover, like the small villages of
Massies Mill and Davis Creek that for all purposes were
completely destroyed. Everywhere, people shook their
heads and wondered, wondered how and why it could
have happened.

It was so fast, so totally without warning that few
people, like us at Bean’s Bottom, could comprehend it.
Everyone knew about Camille, but they didn’t know
about the other bizarre circumstances that were around
us.

Weathermen had predicted Camille was going to dis-
sipate as soon as she hit land in Louisiana and Missis-
sippi. And for a while that seemed true enough. Her
rainy remnants, it was predicted, would pass through
Kentucky Tuesday night while Virginians were watching
late returns from the state’s first Democratic guberna-
torial primary runoff between former Australian ambas-
sador William Battle and State Sen. Henry Howell.

But, then, because of an extraordinary combination
of weather conditions, Camille suddenly shot eastward
across the tip of West Virginia and into Virginia. Theo-
ries have it that three major influences affected the storm
at this point: a cold front in northern Virginia blocked
Camille and forced it eastward over the mountains, a

FEATURES

westerly flow of cold air was present to draw moisture
from the Atlantic Ocean; and updrafts from the moun-
tains forced that moisture up into the westerly flow
where it cooled to a release point, dumping rain in un-
believable amounts in Rockbridge and Nelson Counties.

If you weren't there, it is dificult to comprehend just
how hard it did rain. At Bean’s Bottom, there wasn’t
even a slight let-up until it finally stopped Wednesday
morning at four. Even had we evacuated the apartments,
water damage from the rain would have ruined every-
thing.

And now, days after the flood, the air is dry and cool.
Dust rises from a dirt road. The Maury is quite low, and
a canoe will hit bottom in certain spots. It seems like
typical late summer.

Thinking back, one observation stands out in my
mind. I can remember driving into work Tuesday morn-
ing and seeing masses of small land turtles crossing the
road, apparently headed for higher ground. Others saw
them, too, and we wondered about their presence.

Now we know. They had sensed what was going to
happen and were seeking refuge. Turtles. A simple, un-
complicated signal.

And no one else knew.

 

Christmas Card=Flood Aid

Alumni will have to do without their Christmas
greetings from Washington and Lee this year.

It usually costs $3,000 to prepare and mail the
cards. Instead, the University donated that sum to
the Flood Relief Fund which was organized by the
City of Lexington to assist victims of the recent
flood disaster in surrounding areas, including Buena
Vista and Glasgow.

The Christmas card fund was used for flood
relief because the University has no unbudgeted or
surplus funds, W&L president Robert E. R. Hunt-
ley explained. The $3,000 was given to a city com-
mittee headed by Mayor D. E. Brady Jr.

Washington and Lee kept its Doremus Gymna-
sium open for persons from flooded areas to take
hot showers. In addition, washing machines and
dryers were made available. Machinery and
personnel from W&L assisted in the hard-hit areas
of Buena Vista and Glasgow, as well as in Lexing-
ton where less severe damage occurred.

Fifteen deputized W&L law students spent all
night Aug. 21 and 22 as police security for the town
of Glasgow. They were joined Aug. 22 by a detach-
ment from Virginia Military Institute.

W&L incurred no major damage to its property
from the flood.

 

 

 

©: PEATURE

A
Faculty
Reading
Sampler

Drawings courtesy of
the New York Times

Nobody to play with?

Read a book.

 

A rainy and uneventful summer in
Lexington provides many evenings of
leisure for casual reading “after office
hours.” I discover that, despite my
random selection of books, my even-
ings were chiefly spent with five sorts of
people, some real and some imaginary.
Since a summary and criticism of nu-
merous books is impractical here, per-
haps a list, with parenthetical comment,
will indicate both the content of each
book and my opinion of it.

The Irish. William Butler Yeats’s Col-
lected Poems, re-read over the weeks, are
full of rewards, especially if read in con-
nection with John Unterrecker’s collec-
tion of essays about Yeats and his guide
to the poems. Liam O’Flaherty’s tense
novel about the 1916 Easter Rising in
Dublin, Insurrection, and Sean O’Fao-
lain’s quieter short stories about middle-
class townsmen, J Remember! I Remem-
ber!, each provide an evening's enter-
tainment.

The English. George Eliot’s Middle-
march is surely one of the peaks of Eng-
lish literature; but one should allow
plenty of time for its 800-page unfolding
of varied lives. I was much impressed by
two other novels: George Orwell's A
Clergyman’s Daughter (a mordant, satiri-
cal account of pettiness in an East
Anglian town) and John Fowle’s The
Magus (mysterious, perhaps occult, and
exciting doings in London and on a tiny
Greek island).

The Scots. Sir Walter Scott’s A Legend
of Montrose (about civil war in 1640)
and The Bride of Lammermoor are both
too romantic for my tastes, though each
has memorable “scenes” and much in-
cidental information about Scottish his-
tory and manners. John Buchan’s Witch
Wood tells a good tale wtih a background
of superstition and hypocrisy in an out-
wardly religious village during the time
of Montrose.

Austrians. The books here are about
real people: Arthur Herman's lucid

 

though rather shallow biography of Met.
ternich, whose wily diplomacy during the
Napoleonic days and afterwards pre.
served the “old order”; Rene Leibowitz’s
Schoenberg and His School and Walter
Kolneder’s Anton Webern. These last two
are recommended only for readers jn-
terested in learning about serial (atonal)
music. An ability to read musical scores
and a willingness to forswear traditional-
ism (for a while) are necessary here.

Blacks. Eldridge Cleaver’s Soul on Ice
and Frantz Fanon’s Black Skin, White
Masks are angry books by passionate men,
Fanon, who died in 1961, was a black
psychiatrist from Martinique: his book,
The Wretched of the Earth, like the one
mentioned here, is a revelation of the
black “soul”, and has become a _ best-
seller among militant blacks. These books
are healthy antidotes to white compla-
cency.

—JAMES G. LEYBURN
Professor of Sociology

¥* * *

The obviously desultory nature of my
summer’s reading reflects the fact that it
was sandwiched in between attempts,
largely unsuccessful, to repair an old
cabin in Goshen Pass and, later, to keep
it from floating off down the Maury.
Reading periods were dictated by the
rains which periodically drove me in-
doors. Consequently, as far as my read-
ing was concerned, order and intent
there was none. In many ways what was
really needed this summer was a manual
on ark building.

Both enjoyable and disconcerting was
Mikhail Bulgakov’s The Master and Mar-
garita, an uneasy but hilarious fusion of
E. T. A. Hoffmann and Gogol, and a
novel understandably banned in the Sov-
iet Union over the last 26 years for its
libelous spoof of Soviet bureaucracy.
Abramov’s The New Life: A Day on 4
Collective Farm is not an “explosive”
novel, as the dust jacket promises, but

En route.

Read a book.

 

Seales

Read a book.

it is an amusing and informative ac-
count of the tribulations of a Soviet
kolhoz chairman and of his struggle with
the good-humored cunning of Russian
farmers who quietly make a shambles of
the Soviet collective system.

A re-reading of The Brothers Kara-
mazov left me stunned, as it always does,
while Andrey Biely’s St. Petersburg is pri-
marily interesting as a confirmation of
Raskolnikov’s final dream in Crime and
Punishment. The revolutionary events
during the year 1905 in St. Petersburg
become a symbolic rupture of that cen-
tury-long schizophrenic struggle wherein
the Russian national temperament sought
to define its identity—often through its
novels—in terms of either Slavophilism or
Westernism. Peter the Great’s celebrated
“window on the West,” if I read Biely
aright, became a gash torn into the side
of Mother Russia, and through which en-
tered the twin daemons of rationalism
and reformism which have possessed her
ever since.

Portnoy’s Complaint disappointed me
—maybe because I was also reading a
good deal of D. H. Lawrence at the same
time, a writer whose approach to sex is
less graffitic because he felt that sex in the
bush is worth two in the hand, a genuine
genius who wrote of “the old dance,” as
the Wife of Bath called it, in terms of
the unutterable difference between man
and woman, and not just of cultural and
psychological cripples. Maybe with Port-
noy’s Complaint we've come full circle
and the time is at hand for a Jewish
mother, the favorite target of Jewish sons,
to come forward with a novel indicting
ingrate offsprings—something like My
Son: the Non-writer.

Instant Re-play by Jerry Kramer hardly
needs my endorsement, but is certainly
the most fascinating and readable of that
current flood of back-stairs accounts of
professional athleticism. Its sub-title prob-
ably should have been The Marquis de
Sade Is Alive and Coaching in Green

 

 

Bay. But as all-pro guard Kramer would
be the first to point out, he is also win-
ning—which is the book’s final and most
telling judgment of the formula for suc-
cess in professional football.

And, finally, I read A Particular Place,
an unusually fine collection of poetry by
Dabney Stuart, a young Washington and
Lee English professor, whose work both
present and previous has placed the Uni-
versity’s name before a wider literary au-
dience than it has enjoyed for a long
time.

—H. Rosert HUNTLEY
Associate Professor of English

* ¥* *

Several books have appeared over the
past few months which should be of in-
terest to those looking for reading in the
general area of economics. Peter F.
Drucker’s The Age of Discontinuity is
perhaps his most important work. Four
major areas of “discontinuity” are ex-
plored: the explosion of new technology;
the change from an international to a
world economy; the creation of a “new
pluralistic society of institutions”; and
the ascendancy of knowledge to its posi-
tion as “the crucial resource of the
economy.” The book, nearly 400 pages
in length, is not always easy reading, but
it is never boring.

How to Control the Military is John
Kenneth Galbraith’s latest, and shortest,
book. The author is critical of the power
currently enjoyed by the so-called ‘“‘mili-
tary-industrial complex” and _ contends
that it must be brought under “firm
political control.” This goal can be ac-
complished, he agrees, by making mili-
tary power the major issue in the next
presidential campaign and by waging a
campaign to replace present members of
the House and Senate Armed Services
Committees with “accute and indepen-
dent-minded members.”

The basic thesis of Pierre Berton’s

Take it easy.

Take a book.

PEATURE 27

The Smug Minority is that a minority of
Canadian business and political leaders
(“the Establishment”) has conspired to
inhibit the freedom of the masses. The
theme is all too familiar, particularly to
American readers, but no one will dis-
agree with the author's position that
poverty is harmful to the economy of
both countries.

A view of the Western world as seen
through the eyes of the “Third World”
(i.e, the underdeveloped countries) is
presented by Goran Palm in As Others
See Us. Many of his statements, unfor-
tunately, are not factual. But while the
picture is unpleasant, it cannot be totally
ignored.

For those in management positions,
David Finn’s The Corporate Oligarch is
both informative and stimulating. The
author takes the position that if the
modern corporation is to become a con-
structive force in society, top manage-
ment positions must be filled by men
with highly developed intellectual capa-
cities and with idealism. The corpora-
tion, in turn, must assume greater social
responsibility.

—C, F. PHILLIPs, JR.
Professor of Economics

¥* * *

I read a great deal this past summer—
much of it my usual fare of science fiction;
however, I did run across some things
which I considered to be worthwhile.

Much of my _ so-called “disciplined”
reading was in the area of jurisprudence.
I read several things by Lon Fuller, in-
cluding the Morality of Law, the Ana-
tomy of Law, and Legal Fictions. |
recommend them all, particularly Legal
Fictions.

For some time I have had more than
a passing interest in the problems of
conservation. I spent a good deal of
time reading what I suppose might be
called “layman’s ecology.” By far the
most rewarding thing I read of this
nature was A Sand County Almanac, a
collection of essays by Aldo Leopold.
Sigurd Olson has a new book dealing with
the general concept of a conservation
ethic, but it is not nearly so good as the
older Leopold writings.

By far the most meaningful reading ex-
perience I had was to reread Ezra Pound’s
ABC’s of Reading. I first read this little
volume several years ago, but took very
little of it to heart. After reading it again
recently, I think it’s superb, and _ that
short volume has opened some new hori-
zons and taken me down yet different
roads.

—ANDREW W. MCTHENIA, JR.
Assistant Professor of Law

So FEATURE

During the past summer my heavy (in
terms of size, not difficulty) reading has
been C. L. Sulzburger’s A Long Row of
Candles. This long book is composed of a
fascinating selection of passages from the
diaries Sulzburger kept during his years
as the New York Times’ foreign corres-
pondent prior to 1955. They include his
reports of interviews with many of the
men who have been world leaders since
World War II, including his evaluation
of their abilities and achievements.

In addition, Sulzburger describes the
adventurous life of a foreign correspon-
dent during this period in history. |
found it interesting to recall what was
happening to men on the dates Sulzbar-
ger made his diary entries. I was cheered
to find so many grave worries reported
which did not turn out to be justified.
These passages give hope that some
resolution may be found for the prob-
lems which seem to defy solution today. |
liked Sulzberger’s wit.

My light reading consisted mostly of
mystery novels. Among these were the
works of Juilian Symons, an_ English
critic who spoke at the Seminars in
Literature at Washington and Lee last
spring. I especially enjoyed Bogue’s For-
tune, an amusing story of a teacher’s ex-
periences at a rather unusual English
boarding school. It combined a puzzling
plot with rather deft satire of several
academic type characters.

—WILLIAM J. WaTr
Associate Dean of the College
and Professor of Chemistry

* * *

I've read two extraordinary books re-
cently, On Love by Ortega Y. Gasset and
Memoirs of Hadrian by Marguerite
Yourcenar; I value the first for its lucid
and unpretentiousness, its clear-eyed in-
sistence on first things, and I value the
second for its beauty and profundity (1
guess we are Romans without philosophy).
Maundy by Julian Gloag is the best novel
I've read this summer, remorseless and
deliberate in style, dreadful in  con-
tent—exciting I think. I’m learning to
read W. D. Snodgrass with delight and
W. S. Merwin’s benign Satanism kills me;
still, I guess Lowell’s Notebooks holds me
quickest of the poetry I read, ‘There's
wisdom that is woe/But there is a woe
that is madness” (‘“Dalliance”’). I'll men-
tion one massive disappointment: John
Unterecker’s Voyager: A Life of Hart
Crane is another mid-century hulk of a
biography—I’ll take Phillip Horton’s con-
dign gentleness toward Crane (in his
Biography) before alogging through Un-
terecker again.

—HENrRY SLoss
Instructor in English

On safari.

Read a book.

 

Prof. Henry Sloss recently read a selec-
tion of his poems to Bandersnatch diners.
As the poet surmised, the poems reflected
grimness. However, the listener was also
struck by their humor, many faceted per-
spective of life, and the desire to explore
and re-explore the character behind the
poems.

Authors of several books I have read
recently have similarly been bothered by
life’s grimness. In varied settings and
through diffuse points of view they also
have offered rich and _ provacative re-
sponses to this inescapable element of life.
What follows are the responses of a group
of American historians and social scient-
ists, a Russian fictionalist, a Dutch cul-
tural historian, and an American theo-
logian.

Violence in America, edited by Hugh
Davis Graham and Ted Robert Gurr, a
June, 1969, report to the National Com-
mission on the Causes and Prevention of
Violence, provides a number of historical
and comparative essays on the nature of
violence. This is an especially valuable
book since Americans have difficulty un-
derstanding why violence should occur
in a country singularly blessed by ma-
terial wealth. One primary reason why we
have little understood violence is because
it has been ignored. For instance, during
the recent phenomenal growth of acade-
mic publication historians and social sci-
entists have chewed labor, constitutional,
military, diplomatic and other issues into
mountains of minutia. Yet they have
largely failed to study violence. Graham
and Gurr bring together articles on
political, worker, migrant, frontier, and
racial violence and sound a rallying call
for intensive research in this area.

In a characteristically complex Russian
novel, The First Circle by Aleksandr I.
Solzhenitsyn, is depicted the life of Stali-
nist: Soviet prisoners, who, much as those
innocents who lived before Christ and
reside in the first circle of Dante’s In-
ferno, are spared the physical violence of

 

hell but are kept forever away from the
rest of human society. The prisoners are
innocent; unable to avoid entrapment by
the state. By performing basic scientific
research for the state they escape physical
pain. But the predicament of their fami-
lies and the continual hounding and ex-
ploitation of these innocents causes man
to succumb to the psychologically violent
penal community and accept it as a sane
tuary in which life is more plausible,

The violence and decadence of medie-
val life are viewed through art and litera-
ture by the Dutch historian Johan Huiz-
inga. The Waning of the Middle Ages is
standard fare for medieval history courses
and provides masterful insight into the
pageantry of pessimism and violence in
that era. Huizinga contends that the end
of the Middle Ages and the coming of the
new age of optimism (the Renaissance)
occurred partly because men began to
adopt new forms (pageants) in life which
preceded and helped introduce a new
perspective on life (optimism).

It may seem out of character to include
the theologian Robert Short’s Parables
According to Peanuts (sequel to Gospel
According to Peanuts) since Short is a
supremely optimistic man: he _ nearly
shouts the restorative powers of the
‘Good News’. Additionally, he is a neo-
orthodox Protestant insisting upon the
recognition of the divine historical Christ,
the efficacy of prayer and worship, ete.
However, he begins with the basic as-
sumption that the position of contem-
porary man is desperate, that he is lack-
ing in vision, and unable to escape his
lot to be himself. His solution to man’s
condition emphasizes temporal pageant
and spirit and may not be news to every
one. But the depicted parable form of
analysis (Charles Schulz’s Peanuts), intro-
duced by a chapter explaining the meth-
od, is broadly suggestive.

—PAUL BEEBEE
Instructor in History

Pray for sunshine.

But take books.

 

Among the books I have recently read
(in translation) on Russian literature and
history, I can recommend You Must
Know Everything, a collection of stories
by Isaac Babel, author of Red Cavalary,
which has been skillfully and lovingly
edited by his daughter. Babel’s ability to
“turn an anecdote into a masterpiece” is
clear in these vignettes of life in Russia
at the time of the revolution. Less im-
pressive but still interesting is The Elag-
hin Affair and Other Stories by Ivan
Bunin, the first Russian to receive the
Nobel Prize in Literature. The sketches
in this volume are concerned with peasant
life, folklore, cosmic and artistic yearn-
ings, and an all-pervasive awareness of
death.

The Notebooks for The Possessed con-
tain ‘“‘variants, outlines of plots, sketches
of scenes, and analyses of character” for
Dostoevsky’s great novel. Serious students
of Dostoevsky will find the Notebooks a
fascinating commentary on the techni-
ques of literary composition of one of
the world’s foremost writers. Chekhov,
by the Belgian critic Daniel Gilles, is a
full-length biography of another of Rus-
sia’s great writers. Chekhov was a melan-
choly man without passions (other than his
passion for writing), a witness rather than
a judge or moralist, an “observer [of life]
without illusion.” Gilles’s comments on
Chekhov's plays are particularly illumi-
nating. For those whose tastes run to the
macabre, I suggest Vampires by Alexis
Tolstoy, a cousin of the author of War
and Peace. In spite of an old-fashioned
narrative technique these stories are sur-
prisingly engrossing.

During the early part of the nineteenth
century Arakcheev was probably the most
powerful man in Russia under the tsar.
While he is not an especially rewarding
subject for a biography, Michael Jenkins
has done what he could to produce a
readable account of a singularly unap-
pealing and ruthless figure in Russian
history.

Taking the children

Take books.

 

Nihilists, by Ronald Hingley, offers a
popular and urbanely written survey of
Russian radicals and revolutionaries dur-
ing the reign of Alexander II. I recom-
mend it as an excellent brief summary of
a tension-filled period in which numerous
disturbing parallels to events in the West
a hundred years later are apparent.

—WILLIAM W. Pusey, III
Dean of the College
and Professor of Russian

* * *

Two books which I read during the
summer and remember with pleasure and
satisfaction are Arthur Krock’s memoirs:
Sixty Years on the Firing Line (1968) and
Marshall Sprague’s Gallery of the Dudes
(1967).

Krock’s chronicle of events and of
personalities over the 60 years are his
convictions on the change of the system
of government in the United States. It is
his belief that a system of government
“is primarily and practically a govern-
ment of men.”

Through his knowledge of great events
and his opportunities to know decision-
making personalities at close range “he
recorded memoranda from which the

. Narrative is derived. It is in broad
outline the story of the revolutionary
transformation of the American system
of government in my time, an account of
certain activities by the principal shakers
and movers of this transformation, and a
set of profiles of these personages.”

His vignettes begin with Hayes and end
with Johnson. The era of greatest satis-
faction to him personally appears to be
that of Wilson, although he writes at
greatest length on FDR. One of the chief
merits of the work is Krock’s ability to
state clearly his views. In so doing he rates
the administration of Eisenhower “as one
of the most notable” in American history
—emphasizing the capacity of this ad-
ministration to keep peace and to have
unity in the nation.

In another milieu, a perfect August
afternoon’s pleasure stretched out under
quaking aspens alongside Little Deep
Creek in the Big Horn Mountains was
Sprague’s Dudes. Possibly the dudes re-
corded by him were the tail-end of the
adventurers and explorers who deter-
minedly sailed from Europe in the 17th
and 18th centuries to seek new worlds.
By the middle of the 19th century many
of these explorers were dudes and re-
mittance men, but they were frequently
imbued with the Victorian spirit to re-
cord their observations for posterity.

In Sprague’s work, as the dudes paraded
in and out of Colorado, Wyoming, the
Dakotas and Montana the most exqui-
sitely guided was the Grand Duke Alexis

FEATURED

Afterward.

Read a book.

 

of Russia, who had Buffalo Bill and
Generals Custer and Sheridan to lead his
way. In turn, he was generous with the
champagne when a buffalo was added to
his trophies.

Yet Sprague’s work notes that the ob-
servations of Maxmilian, Prince Wied-
Neuwied, naturalist, left definitive records
on the Indian tribes he lived with and
those of the wiley remittance man, Wil-
liam Drummond Stewart, who employed
an artist to record his many adventures.

The most interesting character turns
out to be an invalid-spinister in her
forties, Isabelle Lucy Bird, who con-
quered the heart of the legendary Moun-
tain Jim Nugent—then a guide in Estes
Park. Miss Bird, an intrepid traveller
throughout her life, is an outstanding
example of the adage that life begins at
forty. Tiring of the restrictive life of a
Scots gentlewoman, she began her ad-
ventures at this age, soon making her
way to America and to Estes Park, wear-
ing Turkish trousers, and complaining
of her aches but determined. In mid-
October, she scaled Long’s Peak with
Mountain Jim’s help, then took a 500
mile trip to Pike’s Peak and Denver and
back to Estes Park in less than three
weeks!

The love affair of Mountain Jim and
of Isabelle Bird was true, albeit brief.
Personal courage and spiritualism were
two of their mutual interests. It is said
that on the day he was murdered he ap-
peared in her hotel room in Interlocken,
Switzerland, to bid her farewell as they
had agreed to previously in Estes Park.
Miss Bird’s book; A Lady’s Life in the
Rocky Mountains was published in 1879
and is still in demand today.

Other dudes noted in the work in-
cluded the American, Theodore Roose-
velt, the grandiose Marquis de Mores and
Count James Pourtales, the entrepreneur
of the Broadmoor Hotel.

—MauvurIce LEACH
Librarian

 

 

 

IO: FEATURE

Shenandoah, Alive and Well,
Enters Its Third Decade
As an Outlet for Creatzorty

By Robert G. Holland
Director of Public Relations

Twenty years have elapsed since Shenandoah was
born of the hope it might become an outlet for creativity
on the Washington and Lee campus.

Shenandoah, now a quarterly review, has exceeded
original expectations for it. The literary magazine has
blossomed into one of the intellectual world’s numerous
high-quality ‘‘little magazines” which provide self-expres-
sive outlets for emerging and established writers alike.
Shenandoah’s impact has gone far beyond the immediate
environs of Washington and Lee and the Lexington-
Rockbridge community.

The latest evidence of Shenandoah’s excellence was
the selection of a short story and poem from 1968 edi-
tions for inclusion in Volume III of The American
Literary Anthology, which is sponsored by the National
Endowment for the Arts in Washington, D.C., to sup-
port the smaller literary magazines and their contri-
butors.

Selections for Volume III, which will be edited by
George Plimpton and Peter Ardery, were made by a
board of nine judges from the 1968 issues of American
literary magazines with a circulation of less than 15,000.

Shenandoah’s selections were: a short story by Guy
Cardwell, entitled ““Time of the Fermeture” (Spring,
1968), and a poem by John Woods, entitled “Asking Di-
rections in California,’ (Winter, 1968). Under the pro-
gram, a National Endowment grant of $500 will go to
the poet, along with $250 to the magazine, and the short
story writer will get $1,000 while the magazine will re-
ceive $500.

The Viking Press, Inc. of New York is scheduled to
publish the anthology in January.

Shenandoah was born out of the concern of under-
graduates at Washington and Lee, as Dr. James G. Ley-
burn has vividly described it.

“The undergraduate scene at Washington and Lee in
the academic year, 1949-50, seemed to be unusually
lively,” Dr. Leyburn has written. “A few veterans were
still around, and their seriousness and maturity affected
the younger men. Issues were debated on the campus,
and the Ring-tum Phi at times resembled a ‘journal of
opinion.’ There was an air of expectancy about the Uni-
versity, as if great things were just about to happen.”

  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
   

“The only outlet for undergraduate creative
however, was the Southern Collegian—and that mz
had long since ceased to be the sort of literary j jourr val
which the serious work of students was desired or p
lished. There was discussion (as there often had a
about the possibility of starting a literary magazine
publish student work. When this idea was bal red
some of the sympathetic members of the faculty, it 1
gradually expanded, for at least a few of these fae
members felt that there was a need for a journal t
would publish creative work by faculty members.” —

“The discussions eventually took the shape of a p
posal, submitted to the administration and then to—
faculty, that Washington and Lee University sho
lend its name to a review, to be edited by an undergrz
ate committee under the supervision of a faculty advis«
committee, whose purpose would be primarily to ee )
fiction, poetry, essays, and reviews by students and 1
bers of the faculty, with contributions from ‘outsid
in sufficient number to complete the issue. The 1
journal would be published three times a year. Adm
stration and faculty approval was secured,” Dr. :
reported.

 

Shenandoah has undergone several transformations
during its first two decades. It is no longer primarily a
voice of the Washington and Lee faculty and student
body, although elements of both participate actively in
its production. Instead of being edited by a committee,
the journal is in the much more stable condition of hav-
ing an editor, who is James Boatwright, associate pro-
fessor of English at Washington and Lee. A separate
literary magazine, Ariel, now provides a medium for the
creative work of W&L students.

Articles are both solicited and contributed. ‘The ma-
gazine is financed by a combination of University funds,
subscriptions and donations and is printed by the
Journalism Laboratory Press of Washington and Lee.

“The (bulk) of the readership,” said Dean William J.
Watt, chairman of the Board of Publishers, “consists just
of interested people over a wide geographical area. A
great number of college libraries subscribe.”

Alumni are among the subscribers, but an increase in
alumni subscriptions is desired, Dean Watt said.

During all of the first 20 years, Shenandoah has been
blessed by contributions of fiction, essays, critical reviews

enandoah

ON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

RICHARD WILBUR
ON POETRY & HAPPINESS

RICHARD KOSTELANETZ

ON RALPH ELLISON

FICTION POEMS REVIEWS

Summer 1969 $1.00

 

FEATURE TN

and poetry from the elite of literary circles. The first
issue of Shenandoah, in 1949-50, contained fiction of ‘Tom
K. Wolfe, a W&L student who after graduation went
on to literary fame as an off-beat novelist-journalist in
New York.

John Dos Passos, well established as the author of
U.S. A., was another of the contributors to the first issue.

Writing about Shenandoah’s first decade, Dr. Leyburn
cited the two-year editorship of student Thomas H. Car-
ter, beginning in 1951, as one of the high points of the
early years. Carter became editor at the end of his
freshman year, and soon thereafter displayed a remark-
able knack for getting contributions to Shenandoah from
distinguished persons of letters. Contributors included:

Ezra Pound, William Faulkner, T. S. Eliot, e. e.
cummings, James Branch Cabell, Ray Bradbury, John
Crowe Ransom, Herbert Marshall McLuhan, Allen ‘Tate
and Robie Macaulay—to name just some, more or less at
random.

Shenandoah during the Sixties has maintained and
embellished its respected name in the literary world.
Some of the well-known bylines in recent years have
included:

David Riesman, Katherine Anne Porter, Arnold
Toynbee, Jesse Hill Ford, W. H. Auden, Reynolds Price,
Robert Penn Warren, Colin Wilson, Louis Rubin, Jr.,
Max Lerner, Robert Lowell, Stephen Spender, John
Berryman, Julian Symons, and Cleanth Brooks.

One of the recent development boosts of significance
for Shenandoah came in 1968 with the establishment of a
special fund to aid the literary magazine. The fund was
established by a gift of $1,500 from Mrs. Myrtle Watts
Thomas of Birmingham, Ala., and was augmented by a
matching gift from the Coordinating Council of Literary
Magazines of Washington, D.C. The Council also con-
tributed another $1,500 outright.

Mrs. Thomas established the fund in memory of her
late husband, Edward M. Hood, Sr., who was a Wash-
ington and Lee alumnus. Her son, Edward M. Hood, Jr.,
was editor and a frequent contributor to Shenandoah
while he was an undergraduate at W&L. The fund has
been used for editorial assistance in publishing the quar-
terly, and to pay literary contributors.

Jim Boatwright, the current editor, will be on leave-
of-absence during the first semester of the 1969-70 acade-
mic year to conduct continued study of American and
British poetry of the goth Century and to establish ad-
ditional literary contacts for Shenandoah. Henry E.
Sloss, Jr., an English instructor, will be acting editor.

 

Note: Address subscriptions to Shenandoah, Box 722,
Lexington, Virginia 24450. Rates $1.00 the copy, $3.00
the year, $5.00 for two years.

 

12;CAMPUS

 

 

For Small Libraries:

The knowledge explosion poses a real
problem for libraries of small colleges, but
by harnassing modern technology and
working cooperatively with each other
such colleges can find solutions, a Wash-
ington and Lee University professor has
concluded.

Dr. Edward F. Turner, professor of phy-
sics and head of that department, has
just completed a two-year study for the
U.S. Office of Education on the implica-
tions of modern technology for the small
college library.

The study was conducted under a
$75,000 federal grant to the University.

“The average college library resources
are too deficient and the rate of growth
too low to provide . . . for quality in-
struction,” the report notes.

It adds that the thrust of efforts to
alleviate library problems has been di-
rected to the large, research libraries. The
library of the undergraduate college will
benefit only indirectly unless “more de-
liberate attention is directed to its needs,”
the report states.

 

Drawing by Walter McCord, Jr.

a Core and a Pool

A major portion of the Turner report
is based on the need for a definition of
what constitutes a core collection for a
small, undergraduate college library.

“If a core is identified, then each col-
lege could have a body of source material,
while less intensively used material could
be pooled in a common store serving a
number of institutions,” Dr. Turner re-
ported.

Core collections could be purchased
and processed together with all additional
books an institution wished to purchase
through a central processing center. The
arrangement would offer economic ad-
vantages to participating colleges, and
these advantages would increase as the
number of participating colleges in-
creased, Dr. Turner said.

Centers for ordering, cataloguing, and
processing books for a group of libraries
show evidence of savings, but the greatest
saving could be effected by adding auto-
matic purchasing, the report noted.

“The most important advantage to the
selection of a core is the potential for

 

savings in money and skilled man-power
which can be diverted to improved sery-
ices to students,” Dr. Turner noted. “The
present go-it-alone approach is unaccept-
able in meeting today’s needs in selecting,
ordering, cataloging, and processing
books.”

Dr. Turner’s proposal envisions the
establishment of a local library unit con-
taining a basic collection tailored to the
needs of its clientele. The unit would
have a communications link to a regional
center. The regional centers would “back-
stop” the local libraries by containing
collections of broader scope and _lesser-
used materials. The regional centers, in
turn, would be linked with national in-
formation centers containing compre-
hensive resources to satisfy all known re-
quirements of users.

Establishment of a national coordinat-
ing agency, the report adds, is needed to
provide specialized assistance and to co-
ordinate research in the field. One of the
special requirements needed is an edi-
torial service to assist in the definition of
appropriate resources for a core collec-
tion. The agency would also formulate
standards for the library services.

College libraries, meanwhile, should be
exploring new approaches, the report
recommends. Among them:

@ Finding more effective techniques
to define resources which are needed
locally.

@ Identifying the lesser-used materials
which might be held jointly with other
libraries.

@ Exploring automatic approaches to
acquisition of materials.

@ Standardization of bibliographic and
processing routines.

@ Exploring methods of sharing pro-
cessing costs.

@ Developing more effective bibliogra-
phic and physical access to local and
shared resources.

The report outlines many technological
aids which can be helpful, such as micro-
forms and computerization of various li-
brary processes.

The findings of the Turner report will
be made available to all libraries, and
are expected to be especially relevant to
research libraries of 200,000 volumes or
less, ;
Dr. Turner, the project director, was
assisted in the study by Stanley McEl-
derry, dean of the Library School at the
University of Texas, and William Kurth,
associate director of libraries at Washing-
ton University in St. Louis.

Dr. Turner has been a consultant on
library problems to the Ford Founda-
tion.

A Year of Questions

An expanded student center for cul-
tural and recreational activities and pol-
icy questions involving coeducation and
size greeted members of the Washington
and Lee academic community returning
for the start of the University’s 22Ist
year.

An enrollment of approximately 1,460
students, including nearly 200 law stu-
dents, registered for classes which began
Sept. 17.

The total enrollment was almost ex-
actly the same as last fall’s record-break-
ing figure, and included a class of 364
freshmen from 34 states and six foreign
lands.

A statistical profile of the entering
class indicates that Washington and Lee
continues to have strong national repre-
sentation. Virginia supplies 60 freshman
members, but Maryland is a close second
with 41, followed by New York (29),
Texas (21), Florida and Ohio (18 apiece),
Georgia (17), North Carolina and Penn-
sylvania (16 apiece), New Jersey (15),
South Carolina and Tennessee (13 apiece),
and Kentucky (10). Another 21 states each
supply nine or fewer entering W&L men,
and the Bahamas, Canal Zone, Chile,
Jamaica, Switzerland and Uruguay fur-
nish one apiece.

A total of 91 members of the freshman
class will receive financial aid to attend
W&L, with scholarships ranging from
$150 to $3,000 for the session. Seventy
percent of the freshmen are graduates of
public schools, while 30 percent were
graduated from private or preparatory
schools.

The major physical improvement for
the new year is the $750,000 University
Center, officially known as the Early-
Fielding Memorial Building. The at-
tractively-decorated center includes a
game room with pool and ping pong
tables, a 150-seat tavern to serve beer and
food, large meeting rooms, offices for stu-
dent organizations, a chapel, television
lounges, and a library to be stocked with
paperbacks and magazines.

Kenneth P. Lane Jr., a native of Rich-
mond and 1964 graduate of Washington
and Lee, has been appointed director of
the center. Lane said his role will be as
adviser to a committee of students which
will provide leadership for center pro-
grams.

The University Center project included
complete renovation of an existing two-
story Student Union building, and erec-
tion of a new one-story structure linking

the Student Union with Evans Dining
Hall,

 

James E. Toler, Sr.

Two long-range decisions will face
University policymakers during the year.
The questions are whether Washington
and Lee, an all-male institution, should
go coeducational, and whether the col-
lege should grow larger, reduce its en-
rollment, or remain approximately at its
current 1,450 to 1,500-student level.

Separate committees are studying the
questions of coeducation and size, and
reports are expected by the end of the
calendar year. Dr. Louis W. Hodges, pro-
fessor of religion, is heading the com-
mittee on coeducation, and John M.
Gunn Jr., associate professor of econo-
mics, is chairman of the size committee.
Both groups include student representa-
tion.

New Store Manager

James E. Toler Sr. of Roanoke, former
assistant manager of the Salem-Roanoke
Valley Civic Center, has been appointed
manager of the University Store at Wash-
ington and Lee.

He will manage an operation that in-
cludes student supplies, a snack bar, and
book sales, and will also have responsibil-
ity for the tavern and food service in the
new $750,000 student center which was
opened in September.

From 1962 to 1968, Toler was manager
of the book store and snack bar at Ferrum
Junior College. He previously worked
in the advertising field in Roanoke.

A native of Hopewell, Toler is 52,
married, and the father of one child. He
was graduated from Ferrum in 1937.

Since coming to the University this
summer, Toler has already initiated

 

CAMPUS 13

several new services in the supply store,
including a magazine rack and record
album sales. A photographic supply sec-
tion is also planned. Toler said he ex-
pects to work with students and members
of the W&L staff in making other im-
provements which may be found desir-
able.

A Visiting Cataloguer

Miss H. Tyler Gemmell, retired direc-
tor of the Sweet Briar College library,
will join the staff of Washington and
Lee’s McCormick Library as visiting cata-
loguer during the 1969-70 year.

The appointment was announced by
librarian Maurice D. Leach Jr.

Miss Gemmell retired from Sweet Briar
in July after serving there since 1947. A
graduate of Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College, she holds bachelor and master’s
degrees in library science from Columbia
University.

A native of Pulaski, Miss Gemmell
served as library assistant at Randolph-
Macon Woman's College from 1926 to
1938, and organized the Pulaski County
Public Library in the summer of 1937.
She served as assistant cataloguer of the
Vassar College library from 1939 to 1945,
and as head cataloguer of the New Jersey
College for Women (now part of Rutgers
University) from 1945 to 1947 when she
became head librarian at the Mary Helen
Cochran Library at Sweet Briar.

Miss Gemmell has also served as a visit-
ing professor at Peabody Graduate Lib-
rary School and at Trenton (N.J.) State
Teachers College. She held a Fulbright
lectureship in Burma during the 1955-
56 year.

She is a member of the American Li-
brary Association, the Southeastern Li-
brary Association, the Virginia Library
Association, the Bibliographical Society
of Virginia, the Lynchburg Historical
Society, and the American Association of
University Professors.

Hodges Is Co-Author

A Washington and Lee religion pro-
fessor is co-author of a new book on
Christian ethics, entitled The Christian
and His Decisions.

The book was written by Dr. Louis W.
Hodges of the University, and Dr. Har-
mon L. Smith, associate professor of moral
theology at the Divinity School of Duke
University. It was published by Abingdon
Press of Nashville and New York in early
September.

The first two parts of the book contain

14: CAMPUS

selected readings from the works of lead-
ing theologians, giving the theological
foundations and principles of Christian
decision-making. Original essays in the
third part of the book deal with the
practice of Christian decision-making. In-
cluded are essays on specific moral prob-
lems of the day—human sexuality, the
human shape of life, the politics of dis-
sent, poverty, and racism.

Readings are included from Paul Til-
lich, H. Richard Niebuhr, Reinhold Nie-
buhr, Emil Brunner, Karl Barth, John
A. T. Robinson, Paul Ramsey, Robert
McAfee Brown, and others.

A special grant from the Ford Founda-
tion to Washington and Lee made pos-
sible a leave of absence for Dr. Hodges
during the fall of 1968 to work on the
manuscript.

The authors propound an approach
to Christian ethics they label as “prin-
cipled contextualism.” The method holds
that Christians go about making ethical
decisions by using basic theological in-
sights and principles to guide choices
made within specific contexts.

As an example, they note that racial
segregation is in principle wrong because
“it denies the equal worth of the minority
and impedes the growth of full com-
munity between persons.” Thus, the
Christian is in principle obliged to work
toward desegration, they contend.

A Book by Phillips

A revised edition of a textbook by a
Washington and Lee professor on the
transportation and public utility indus-
tries has been published as part of the
Irwin Series in Economics.

The book by Dr. Charles F. Phillips
Jr., professor of economics, was originally
published in 1965. It is being used by ap-
proximately 40 colleges and universities,
and is also widely used by regulatory
commissions, as well as by corporations in
their management training programs.

The 800-page book was updated and
substantially rewritten from its first edi-
tion.

Dr. Phillips is a consultant to a num-
ber of utilities, including the American
Telephone and Telegraph Co. and the
Virginia Electric and Power Co.

The book is entitled The Economics of
Regulation: Theory and Practice in the
Transportation and Public Utility In-
dustries and is published by Richard D.
Irwin, Inc. publishing firm.

The book is unique in that it is the
first to combine the fields of public utili-
ties and transportation. Previous texts
have dealt with these subjects separately.

Aid to Recreation

Cooperation between the City of Lex-
ington and the University continued to
fill a gap in the local recreation program
for youth when Washington and Lee
opened its indoor swimming pool and its
tennis courts for use by the community
for the second consecutive summer.

Records show that 876 youngsters aged
eight to 12, and 1,151 youths aged 12 to
16 made use of the W&L pool, according
to E. Graham “Buck” Leslie Jr. Attend-
ance was considered good and the pro-
gram was a hit with the youngsters, Leslie
said,

The tennis courts also received heavy
use, particularly during the early morning
and late afternoon hours, noted Leslie,
W&L’s head football coach who directed
Washington and Lee’s phase of the sum-
mer recreation program. He worked in
cooperation with Stuart P. “Pete” Brew-
baker, the city’s recreation director.

The city and University shared the
cost of lifeguards at the pool.

Leslie also reported that members of
the community used W&L’s track and
baseball field for workouts.

“We feel it was a service well rendered,”
he said. “The pool, in particular, met a
definite need so far as the community is
concerned.”

Included among those using the facili-
ties were underprivileged children from
lower income sections of the city.

But all persons involved agreed that
use of the indoor pool was a temporary
solution to a summer recreation problem.

A group of citizens has launched a
public fund drive to construct an out-
door Lexington Municipal Swimming
Pool.

Maj. Gen. George R. E. Shell, super-
intendent of Virginia Military Institute,
and President Robert E. R. Huntley of
Washington and Lee have been named
honorary co-chairmen for the campaign.
The goal is to complete the $60,000
swimming pool, bath house, sun deck,
and wading pool by next spring.

Nine Visiting Scholars

Nine university scholars will lecture at
Washington and Lee during the 1969-70
academic year under the Visiting Scholars
program of the University Center in Vir-
ginia,

Richard B. Sewall, professor of English
at Yale University, will be the first speak-
er in the series, appearing Oct. 28. His
subject will be “Dialogue in Literature.”

Laurence Wylie, professor of the civili-
zation of France, Harvard University,

 

will speak two days later on the subject
“Psychological Aspects of Franco-Ameri-
can Relations.”

Lucian Pye, professor of political sej-
ence at Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, will speak Nov. 13 on “Com-
munist China.”

During the spring semester, the follow-
ing speakers will appear:

March 2—Bernard Knox, professor of
classics at Yale University, “Euripides,
The Most Tragic of Poets.”

March 4—William Frankena, professor
of philosophy at the University of Michi-
gan, “The Principles of Morality.”

March 10—Jacques Hardre, professor of
French at the University of North Caro-
lina, ““Marcel Proust and the Theme of
Death.”

April 9—Irving Howe, professor of Eng-
lish at Stanford University, “Anarchy and
Authority in American Literature.”

April 13—E. A. Smith, senior lecturer
in modern history and senior tutor of the
history department, University of Reading
in England, ‘““The Education of the Aris-
tocracy in Eighteenth Century England.”

April 23—Robert Merton, professor of
sociology at Columbia University, “Per-
spectives on Anomie.”’

Student Fatalities

Paul Mason Shuford, II, a Washington
and Lee sophomore, and his companion,
Miss Stephanie Rose, a sophomore at
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, were
killed in an automobile accident on Sept.
17. The Alumnus, on behalf of the Uni-
versity, extends sympathy to their families.

Both students were from Richmond,
Va. Mr. Shuford was a son of Mr. and
Mrs. Paul M. Shuford. The elder Shuford
is a well-known lawyer who received his
B. S. from Washington and Lee in 1943
and his law degree in 1948, Miss Rose
was a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. S.
Rose, Jr.

The students were the only passengers
in a car driven by young Shuford. The
car went out of control on a curve on
tortuous U. S. Highway 501 and plunged
down an embankment. The accident
happened about 12:05 a.m. about one
and a half miles south of Buena Vista.

Young Shuford was an honor graduate
of the Collegiate Schools in Richmond
and a member of Phi Kappa Sigma fra-
ternity at Washington and Lee. Miss
Rose was an honor graduate of Douglas
Freeman High School in Richmond.

The student body observed a moment
of silence in memory of Mr. Shuford at
the University’s opening assembly.

A New Phi Ps House

The brothers of Phi Kappa Psi fra-
ternity at Washington and Lee are enjoy-
ing the results of advance planning this
fall.

Twenty years ago, the house members
foresaw the need to erect a structure built
especially for the purpose of being a fra-
ternity house, to replace an old mansion
which the Phi Psi’s had purchased from
WEL in 1938 for $8,000.

In October, 1949, a letter went out to
alumni from Charles Gilmore, °39, of
Pittsburgh, temporary chairman of the
House Building Fund, announcing a goal
of $100,000 to provide the needed facility.

As the 1969-70 academic year began
last month at Washington and Lee, the
members of Phi Kappa Psi are occupying
an attractive new chapter house on the
site of the old house at 301 East Wash-
ington Street. The contractor was W. W.
Coffey & Son, Inc. of Lexington, and the
architect was Marcellus Wright & Associ-
ates of Richmond.

Gilmore noted that during the 20-year
campaign, rising construction costs made
the original $100,000 figure insufficient.
The university made a low-interest loan
of $60,000 to the fraternity toward com-
pletion of the project, and efforts are con-
tinuing to raise additional funds from
alumni. Gilmore said the total cost is
expectea to be approximately $175,000.

13 Leaves of Absence

Thirteeen faculty members will have
leaves of absence during all or part of
the 1969-70 academic year, University
administrators have announced.

The leaves will be for a variety of pur-
poses, including study, travel, and re-
search.

Dr. William W. Pusey III, dean of the
College, announced the following leaves
in the College:

Dr. L. Lomas Barrett, professor of
romance languages, second semester, for
research in the National Library in Mad-
rid, and refreshing linguistic skills.

James Boatwright III, associate profes-
sor of English, first semester, for con-
tinued study of American and British
poetry of the 20th Century and to estab-
lish additional contacts for Shenandoah,
the University literary magazine.

Dr. Sargent Bush Jr., associate professor
of English, full year, for participation in
the Duke-North Carolina Cooperative
Program in the Humanities.

Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, professor
of English, second semester, for work on

       
 
 

CAMPUS -115

 
     

“-

 

. “ax: ae aaib<
>. ne ‘mS "\
2 “a! >" ‘a- ae - one
eas Se ee “ SR

ae Aw eR age eh ‘aes +:

  

2 ; : ¥. ~ ~
. ot,

i. Oe r rae “ “i P we ~~ +
SiG age aS = Sr ac we ~ ;

The Phi Psi’s moved into their new house this fall. Still to be finished are
the landscaping and a winding stairway on each side of the porch.

a book about Matthew Arnold and travel
in England.

Dr. G. Francis Drake, professor of ro-
mance languages, first semester, for travel
in France and work on material for
courses he will be teaching.

Dr. Jefferson Davis Futch III, associate
professor of history, first semester, for re-
search in Venice, Italy on Victor Em-
manuel III, and Napoleonic Venice.

Dr. J. Brown Goehring, associate pro-
fessor of chemistry, full year, for study at
UCLA on a National Science Foundation
fellowship.

Dr. William A. Jenks, professor of his-
tory, second semester, for continued re-
search in Rome and Florence on Austro-
Italian relations, 1849-1882.

Dr. Odell S. McGuire, associate pro-
fessor of geology, full year, for compara-
tive study of The Alps and The Appa-
lachian Mountains in Basel, Switzerland.

Dr. Charles W. Williams, professor of
mathematics, full year, for study at Dart-
mouth College on the applications of
mathematics in the social sciences.

Robert B. Youngblood, assistant pro-
fessor of German, full year, for work at
Ohio State University toward completion
of requirements for a Ph.D.

In the School of Commerce and Ad-
ministration, the following leaves of ab-
sence have been announced by Dr. Ed-
ward C, Atwood Jr., dean of the School:

Dr. Delos D. Hughes, associate professor
of political science, full year, for study at
the London School of Economics and

Political Science under a fellowship from

the National Foundation on the Arts and
the Humanities.

Dr. Edward L. Pinney, professor of
political science, full year, for research
in Germany.

More New Faculty

The appointments of five more faculty
members for the 1969-70 academic ses-
sion have been announced by Univer-
sity administrators.

It brought to 21 the total number of
new faculty members coming to the
three divisions of Washington and Lee
this year. Appointments of 16 men were
announced in May .

Roy Lee Steinheimer Jr., dean of the
School of Law, announced that Professor
William T. Fryer, a member of the law
faculty of George Washington University
since 1926, will be visiting professor of
law for the coming year.

Professor Fryer is considered an ex-
pert in the field of evidence, legal meth-
od, and procedure, and has written sev-
eral books in those fields. At W&L, he
will teach courses in those areas. He re-
ceived his A.B. and LL.B. degrees at
George Washington University, and his

J.D. at Yale University.

Dr. William W. Pusey III, dean of the
College, announced the following ap-
pointments:

—Dennis H. Cartwright from Clemson
University as instructor in mathematics.
Cartwright received his bachelor’s degree
at West Georgia College, and earned the

16;CAMPUS

M.A. in mathematics from Clemson in
1965.

—Dr. Donald O. Doehring from Po-
mona College as assistant professor of
geology. Dr. Doehring received his A.B.
at the University of California at Berkely,
his M.A. at Claremont Graduate School—
Pomona College, and his Ph.D. at the
University of Wyoming.

—Dr. James Russell Johnson from
Wisconsin State University at Eau-Claire
as visiting associate professor of chemis-
try. Dr. Johnson holds the B.S. from
Carroll College, and the M.S. and Ph.D.
from Iowa State University.

—Clifford Brown, a candidate for the
doctoral degree at the University of
Virginia, as instructor in English. Brown
received his A.B. at Duke University and

his M.A. at the University of Virginia.

Shocking Fish Story

Deep in the Blue Ridge Mountains
near here, two young men would place an
electric shocking device in a native trout
stream, then cut on the juice.

Poachers? Illegal fishermen?

Not all all. In fact, it was perfectly
legal. For them, anyway.

They were a pair of Washington and
Lee biology students—senior Chuck Gar-
ten of Parkersburg, W.Va. and junior
Jim Geason of Lynchburg—who were con-
ducting a summer research project. They
had taken the advance precaution of get-
ting the necessary permits from federal
authorities, including permission to use
the electric shocker.

Their project was to determine what
conditions are necessary to maintain
native trout. They hoped to find out
why some streams will support natives,
why others won't.

They spent their summer vacation es-
tablishing a profile of the creek, running
periodic tests of the water to determine
such things as its oxygen and carbon
dioxide content, its acidity, water and
air temperature variations, rate and vol-
ume of water flow, and—most importantly

—what organisms are present in the
water an in what abundance.
All of these factors are believed to

play a part in whether a stream will sup-
port native trout.

In the end, Garten and Geason’s re-
search indicated the main factors seemed
to be water temperature, an abundance
of certain organisms such as the Caddis
Fly and May Fly, and the ratio of pools to
rapids.

The pair of youthful researchers worked
under the tutelage of Dr. Thomas G. Nye,
assistant professor of biology at the Uni-

versity and an avid trout fisherman.

“Our main purpose in the project was
to train undergraduates in the techniques
of field biology,”” Nye said. ‘““The funds to
finance projects such as these come from
foundations and other grants, such as the
one from the Sloan Foundation.”

(Under the Alfred P. Sloan Founda-
tion grant of $250,000, made to the Uni-
versity in 1967, a number of W&L under-
graduates carry out a variety of research
projects in biology, geology, chemistry,
physics, mathematics, and _ psychology.
Other similar research projects are con-
ducted through a $197,200 National
Science Foundation grant and the Uni-
versity’s own Robert E. Lee Research
program.)

“Our secondary purpose,” Nye con-
tinued, “was to get a working profile of a
native trout stream, so we could compare
it with other streams to find out what
they might need to support a native trout
population.”

Nye noted that there are several
streams in the Blue Ridge, and also in
the Alleghanies of Bath County, that
have plenty of native trout.

“I know several fishermen who won't
fish for anything but natives,” he said.
“And they get their limit every year.”

Even many of the stocked streams have
some natives, Nye pointed out, but you
usually have to hike in to their colder

4

alll

‘

headwaters to find them. Most fishermen
are not willing to do this.

“The temperature is usually a little
higher in a stocked stream because of
clearings which allow more sun to hit
the waters,” Nye said.

Garten and Geason had another re-
search project under way in Rockbridge
County along Rocky Row Run, which
empties into the James River near Snow-
den.

A large slate quarry operation is being
installed far upstream, and the two stu-
dents took ‘“before-during-and-after”
samples to determine what effect the
quarry had on the stream. They were de-
termining such things as the supply and
variety of organisms, the water's acidity,
and whether any byproducts of the quarry
operation appeared in the stream.

As for that electric: shocking device, it
didn’t kill the fish; but only stunned them
temporarily, forcing them to the surface
so a fish population census could be
taken,

In Garten and Geason’s first attempt,
it didn’t work anyway. In_ preliminary
tests, they had found that it worked per-
fectly in Woods Creek, which traverses
the W&L campus and populated areas of
Lexington. But in the native trout stream
high in the Blue Ridge, the water was
so pure it didn’t have enough electrolytes
to carry the current.

a SS
— ~ :

ees
eae

7 4 —

~

ad

7

~

oer 2.
a

eS ed

 

Dr. Thomas Nye (left) and student researchers Charles Garten (center) and
Jim Geason are looking for a way to support native trout.

McCrum Memorial

A memorial fund has been established
in honor of Miss Blanche Prichard Mc-
Crum, a former head librarian at Wash-
ington and Lee and a retired bibliogra-
pher at the Library of Congress, who
died Aug. 26 at her home in Arlington,
Va., after a long illness. She was 81.

Several of her former associates at the
Washington and Lee library and several
students created the fund. Additional
gifts are welcome.

Miss McCrum, a native of Lexington,
joined the staff of the Washington and
Lee library in 1918 and was head li-
brarian from 1922 to 1936. After further
study, she was librarian at Wellesley Col-
lege from 1937 to 1947, when she joined
the Library of Congress. She made many
contributions to the advancement of li-
brary science.

She was the chief compiler of and con-
tributor to A Guide to the Study of the
United States of America, a reference
work published by the Library of Con-
gress. She was also co-author of Biblio-
graphical Procedures and Style, A Manual
for Bibliographers in the Library of Con-
gress. She also wrote many special studies
and reports, including a major study
concerning standards for college libraries.
She retired from the Library of Congress
in 1955, returning briefly in 1957 for a
special assignment.

She studied at the Drexel Institute Li-
brary School and at many other colleges
and universities. She held a bachelor’s
degree from Boston University and a mas-
ter’s from the University of California.

Miss McCrum was president of the
Association of College and Reference Li-
braries from 1945 to 1946 and of the
Virginia State Library Association from
1934 to 1936.

She is survived by a sister, Mrs. E. P.
Bledsoe Sr. of Lexington.

VFIC Gives $89,500

Washington and Lee University and
eleven other senior colleges not supported
by state appropriations of tax revenues
have shared a record $1,100,175 in the
1969 distribution of funds contributed
to the Virginia Foundation for Independ-
ent Colleges.

Washington and Lee’s share of the
joint fund for expenditure in the 1969-70
school year was $89,541.03. Sixty per cent
of undesignated contributions are distri-
buted in 12 equal shares and 40 per cent
on the basis of full-time undergraduate
enrollment of the respective institutions.
Since the VFIC was organized in 1953,

corporations doing business in Virginia
have contributed $10.3 million to assist
the 12 participating colleges.

VFIC funds are unrestricted and are
used to support faculty salaries or for
other current operating purposes. The
1969 distribution included some funds,
however, for improving library services.
Grants to purchase equipment or refer-
ence resources for the 12 college libraries
have been made to the VFIC on two oc-
casions by the Marietta McNeill Morgan
& Samuel Tate Morgan, Jr. Memorial
Trust, which is administered by the First
& Merchants National Bank, Richmond.
The Cyrus H. McCormick Library’s share
of these library grants has amounted to
$5,733, of which $2,854 was delivered in
1969.

The VFIC program and its central of-
fice in Lynchburg are funded through a
grant provided by the Old Dominion
Foundation, so that every cent of every
tax-deductible dollar contributed goes to

 

Judge Is Killed

Judge Morris C. Montgomery,
chief justice of the Kentucky Court
of Appeals, and his wife were killed
instantly on Sept. 3 in an automo-
bile accident in Illinois. They were
returning to Kentucky from a judi-
cial retirement conference. Judge
Montgomery received his law degree
from W&L in 1930. He was 62; his
wife, 54. Gov. Louis B. Nunn of
Kentucky, a close friend of the
judge, declared a five day period of
mourning.

A judge on Kentucky’s highest
court since 1954, Judge Montgo-
mery had planned to seek re-elec-
tion to a second eight-year term
next year. While a hard-liner on
law and order, he was affable, witty,
and relaxed in private. He was
firmly convinced that the death
penalty was an effective deterrent
to heinous crimes. He was a long-
time leader in the movement to
establish an intermediary court to
relieve the burden of the Court of
Appeals and was a strong advocate
of judicial reforms in Kentucky.

From 1930 to 1934, he practiced
law in Casey county; he became a
police judge in Liberty in 1935; he
was City attorney there from 1938
to 1941 and again in 1952 and
1953. In 1953 he was elected to
the Kentucky Senate seat held 40
years earlier by his father.

 

 

 

CAMPUS.17

the participating institutions. No mem-
ber college is required to pay back to the
VFIC any tax or assessment to cover pro-
motional and fund-raising expenses.

Measured by the amount of money per-
college and per-student delivered to the
12 privately supported institutions in
1969, the VFIC maintained its top na-
tional ranking among 40 similar joint
funds assisting 514 independent colleges
and universities throughout the nation.
The $1.1 million in contributions received
from 906 supporters, mostly corporate,
ranks second in the nation in total sup-
port given a statewide college fund, sur-
passed only by the Ohio Foundation of
Independent Colleges, which has 34 mem-
bers.

Other Virginia colleges sharing VFIC
funds are Bridgewater, Emory and Henry,
Hampden-Sydney, Hollins, Lynchburg,
Mary Baldwin, Randolph-Macon, Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman's College, Roanoke,
Sweet Briar, and the University of Vir-
ginia,

Graduate Is Editor

William H. Jeffress Jr., a Richmonder
and 1967 graduate of Washington and
Lee, has been elected editor-in-chief of
the Yale Law Journal at Yale University.

Jeffress will be responsible for editing
and publishing eight issues of the Jour-
nal this year. He was originally elected to
membership on the Journal in July, 1968
in a group of 15 students with the highest
grade averages after one year of law
school.

At Washington and Lee, Jeffress served
as president of the student body.

The Yale Law Journal is entirely con-
trolled and published by the student of-
ficers and members. Each issue is about
equally divided between student work
and reviews by persons in the academic
and legal fields. Past editors-in-chief have
included Karl Llewellyn, Herbert Brown-
ell, Abe Fortas, Eugene Rostow and
Nicholas Katzenbach.

Jeffress has accepted a one-year clerk-
ship, beginning in July, 1970, with Judge
Gerhard Gesell of the United States Dis-
trict Court for the District of Columbia.

Annual Giving Jump

Contributions by alumni and _ parents
to Washington and Lee increased signifi-
cantly during the 1968-69 fiscal year which
ended June 30, according to University
alumni and development records.

Alumni Fund contributions of $301,360
topped by $1,360 the goal which had been

18:CAMPUS

set for the year. And the figure exceeded
by more than $23,000 the total Alumni
Fund contributions for 1967-68.

A total of 4,191 Washington and Lee
alumni contributed to the fund. It repre-
sented an increase of 245 over the 1967-
68 fiscal year. The number of gifts of
$100 or more totaled 616, which was an
increase of 102 over the previous year.

Contributions to the Parents’ Fund
amounted to $40,436, which compares
with $24,904 in contributions during the
previous year. A total of 432 parents con-
tributed to the fund during 1968-69, com-
pared with 325 parents who made dona-
tions during 1967-68.

The number of parents’ gifts of $100
and over was 127 in 1968-69, an increase
of 34 over the previous year.

Both the Alumni and Parents’ Funds
totals represent record highs at W&L.
Contributions from corporations, founda-
tions, and other individuals are not in-
cluded in the report.

Huntley on Tax Bill

President Huntley testified on Sept. 18
before the Senate Finance Committee in
Opposition to provisions of the proposed
Tax Reform Act of 1969 which would
jeopardize private gifts and other support
of the nation’s privately-supported col-
leges, churches, hospitals and charities.
He was official spokesman for the Associa-
tion of Independent Colleges in Virginia,
a 26-member group. He was accompanied
by Dr. Eugene Stockstill, consultant for
Gift Planning Services for Lynchburg
College.

In delivering the association's official
statement, President Huntley said the tax
reform bill, as passed by the House, was
“the first significant step backward with
respect to provisions for charitable con-
tributions during the past 56 years of in-
come tax history.”

“While the restrictions on charitable
giving would have a devastating effect on
many institutions and organizations, the
real threat in this bill is to the nation
and to the pluralistic vigor of American
society,” Huntley said. “A real effect of
these changes and even broader changes
that will likely follow would be to pull
more power away from the private sector
and place it in the public sector.”

The association’s statement made it
clear the college administrations agree
that some form of tax reform is needed,
but that the measure, passed by the
House on Aug. 7, would penalize legiti-
mate private philanthropy and thus se-
verely cripple private higher education.

“The main avenues now open for tax
avoidance can be closed off without af-

fecting incentives for legitimate voluntary
gift support,” President Huntley said.
“Could not the Congress focus its atten-
tion on abuses and not use a meat-ax
when a small pruning knife would be
more effective for cutting out the trouble
spots?

“Higher education and organized chari-
ties should not be victims of the reform-
er’s zeal simply because they do not have
the ‘influence’ to defend themselves,” he
added.

The need for tax reform is urgent, and
it is to the credit of Congressional leaders
that corrective measures have been pro-
posed, Huntley said, but the tax abuses
which have occurred are not connected
with the legitimate charitable deduction
provisions of the present law.

“It is noteworthy that we have not
taken exception to this bill in its entirety
nor even to all of the provisions related
to tax exemption and charitable deduc-
tions,” Huntley continued. “Colleges are
willing to sacrifice some of the traditional
methods of giving if necessary to preserve
others which are essential to institutions
dependent upon private gift support.”

The authors of the bill “deserve ap-
plause,’” he added, for provisions to tax
organizations on income received from
debt-financed investments and to extend
the unrelated business income tax to
cover all organizations now exempted.
Also, the colleges supported the provision
to increase the ceiling on deductibility.

But the bill would “dilute the strength
of the private sector of our national life”
by provisions that:

@ Discourage charitable gifts of appreci-
ated property and, in some instances, com-
pletely eliminate tax incentives for mak-
ing gifts of appreciated property. The bill

 

 

 
 
 
  

A

b
‘
'

;
j :}

) by)
I 1 i
Woes

 

 

 

would reduce the advantage of making
gifts of appreciated property by at least
50 per cent.

@ jeopardize “time-honored methods of
charitable giving,” such as charitable re-
mainder trusts, life income agreements,
and gift annuity agreements.

@ Place a tax of 7% per cent on the
investment income of private foundations,
the effect of which would be to cut back
funds available to colleges, churches, hos-
pitals and other operations in the private
sector.

Huntley said the gain in tax revenues
created by restrictions on deductions of
contributions (estimated at $5 million in
1970) will be “negligible when compared
to the financial chaos that will result for
churches, schools, hospitals, and innumer-
able public charities that depend on gift
support to continue their services.”

A basic motivation for drafting the tax
bill was to attack methods thought to be
used by wealthy citizens to avoid taxa-
tion, but contributions deductions in the
present law are not used to avoid taxes,
the association pointed out. Within care-
fully defined limitations, donors may
reduce their taxes through deductions for
charitable contributions.

“Certainly the tax rewards alone can-
not move anyone to give to his favorite
college,” Huntley declared. ‘““There must
be a donative disposition on the part of
the donor. Deductions only lower the cost
of charitable gifts.”

Among other concerns raised by the as-
sociation was the possible impact of re-
troactive features of the bill, especially
provisions which would alter the tax
treatment of already existing trusts and
gift agreements.

Four-year colleges belonging to the
association are Bridgewater, Eastern Men-
nonite, Emory and Henry, Hampden-
Sydney, Hampton Institute, Hollins,
Lynchburg, Mary Baldwin, Randolph-
Macon, Randolph-Macon Woman's Col-
lege, Roanoke, Saint Paul's, Stratford,
Sweet Briar, University of Richmond, Vir-
ginia Union, Virginia Wesleyan, and
Washington and Lee.

Two-year member colleges are Averett,
Bluefield, Ferrum, Marymount, Shenan-
doah, Southern Seminary, Sullins, and
Virginia Intermont.

(The fate of the bill, particularly the
provisions objectionable to higher educa-
tion, was uncertain as this issue of the
magazine went to press. There was sent
ment for postponing action on the bill
until January, but the Democratic leader-
ship of the Senate was pressing for action
on some form of tax reform legislation by
Oct. 31.)

E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr.

Jonathan W. Warner

CAMPUS 19

 

John L. Crist, Jr.

Trustees Elect Nuckols, Warner, Crist; Gov. Holt Retires

The University Board of Trustees
elected three new members and honored
one retiring member at its October meet-
ing, which marked the beginning of the
Board’s reorganization program.

The new members—all W&L alumni—
are:

E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr., 57, of New-
town, Pa., senior vice president of the
Campbell Soup Co. in Camden, N.J., the
first Trustee nominated by Washington
and Lee alumni.

Jonathan W. Warner, 52, of Tusca-
loosa, Ala., president and chairman of
the board of the Gulf States Paper Corp.

John L. Crist, Jr., 46, of Charlotte,
N.C., industrial real estate developer.

Retiring after 29 years on the Board
was former Gov. Homer A. Holt of West
Virginia. He was elected to emeritus
Status, and at a dinner he was presented
a silver tray bearing the engraved signa-
tures of his fellow Board members.

The Trustees also elected themselves
to term memberships in carrying out one
phase of its reorganization and expan-
sion program. The main features of the
program include replacement of the old
system of life memberships with basic
six-year terms for all trustees, with pro-
vision for re-election to additional six-
year terms; an increase in the size of the

Board from 16 to 19 members; and
mandatory retirement from the Board at
the end of a calendar year in which a
member reaches age 70.

Gov. Holt, 71, in announcing his re-
tirement, said he had remained on the
Board beyond normal retirement age to
help effect the reorganization.

Nuckols was nominated by mail ballot
during the summer by Washington and
Lee alumni of record, choosing among
three candidates submitted by the Alumni
Board of Directors. The other candidates
were Herbert G. Jahncke, '30, of New
Orleans and Thomas C. Frost, Jr., ’50, of
San Antonio. A total of 4,113 votes were
cast,

The alumni balloting was also part of
the Trustee reorganization plan, one pur-
pose of which is to give alumni a more
direct voice in the affairs of the Uni-
versity. Under the plan, alumni will
nominate a trustee every two years, pro-
viding a total of three alumni-nominated
members by 1974.

Nuckols is a native of Louisville, Ky.,
where he grew up and attended secondary
school. He received his B.A. degree from
Washington and Lee in 1933 and _ his
LL.B. degree in 1935. He is a member
of Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta
Kappa, Order of the Coif, and Alpha Tau
Omega social fraternity. He is a former

member of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Board of Directors and was its
president in 1965-66. He has been active
as a class agent for the annual alumni
fund campaign. After graduation from
WL, Nuckols was associated with the
firm of Covington and Burling in Wash-
ington, D.C., from 1935 to 1942, when
he joined Campbell Soup Co. He has
risen steadily in the exectutive ranks of
the firm.

Nuckols has been active in _ business
and civic affairs. He is a director of the
First Camden National Bank and Trust
Co. and is immediate past president of
the National Canners Association. He
was president of the United Fund of
Camden County in 1963-64 and chairman
of its directors in 1965. He was a director
of the National Association of Manufac-
turers in 1961-63 and is chairman of the
Upper Makefield Township Board of
Supervisors in Bucks County, Pa., a mem-
ber of the Bucks County Park Board, and
a past chairman of the Upper Township
Planning Commission.

Warner is a native of Decatur, Ill. He
received his B.S. in business administra-
tion from Washington and Lee in 1941.
He was in the armed forces from 1941 to
1945,

He was elected acting general man-
ager of the Gulf States Paper Corp. in

20;CAMPUS

1946. He became executive vice president
in 1950 and president and chairman of
the board in 1957. He is a past director of
the Birmingham branch of the Federal
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, past president of
the Alabama State Chamber of Com-
merce and a past president of the War-
rior Tombigbee Development Associa-
tion. He is a director of the Alabama
Great Southern Railroad and a member
of the board of Southwestern University
at Memphis. He is also director of many
prominent civic and business organiza-
tions and on the board of several family
foundations.

He is an avid sportsman, particularly
active in swimming and horsemanship. A
son, Jon, Jr., graduated from Washing-
ton and Lee in 1967.

Crist is a native of Abingdon, Va., and
received his B.A. degree from Washing-
ton and Lee in 1945. He became employ-
ed by the Southern Dyestuff Corp. in
Charlotte in 1946 and was later elected
vice president of the corporation, a post
he held until 1960. He then became
assistant to the president of the Martin-
Marietta Corp., after that company pur-
chased Southern Dyestuff.

In 1962, he went into busines for him-
self as an investments and industrial real
estate developer. He is an officer of the
Rector Corp. of Charlotte, a real estate

holding firm; Great Piedmont Corp. of
Lincolnton, N.C., a real estate firm; and
of the Double C Farm Co., a farm operat-
ing concern. He is active in many Civic
endeavors and is on the board of the
Mint Museum of Art, Charlotte Health
and Hospital Council, Charlotte-Mecklen-
burg Hospital Authority, Charlotte Re-
habilitation Hospital, and the United
Arts Council. He is also a past president
of the Charlotte Y.M.C.A. and of the
Charlotte Nature Museum.

Crist was chapter captain of the W&L
Alumni House campaign and is a former
member of the Alumni Board of Direc-
tors, serving as vice president in 1968-69.
An outstanding amateur golfer, he was
1969 chairman of the Kemper Open in
Charlotte.

Gov. Holt, a lawyer, was born in
Lewisburg, W.Va. He received his A.B.
from Washington and Lee in 1918 and
his LL.B. in 1923 and holds honorary
degrees from the University of West Vir-
ginia and Bethany College. He taught
mathematics at Washington and Lee from
1920 to 1923 and was a professor of law
from 1923 to 1925.

He practiced law in Fayetteville, W.Va.,
from 1925 to 1933, became attorney gen-
eral of the state in 1933 and was elected
governor in 1937, serving until 1941. He
resumed the practice of law in Charleston

Gov. Holt at a meeting with the Self-Study Committee in 1966.

in 1941 and then was general counsel
of the Union Carbide and Carbon Corp.
in New York from 1947 to 1953. Since
then he has lived in Charleston, practic.
ing law and engaging in many civic and
business affairs. He served from 1957 to
1963 as chairman of the West Virginia
Commission on Constitutional Revision.

He was elected a Trustee of Washing-
ton and Lee in 1940 and is a member
of Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Delta Phi,
Omicron Delta Kappa, and Phi Kappa
Psi.

All three of the new Trustees were
elected to six-year terms, beginning Jan,
l.

To implement the system of term mem-
berships, the oldest members of the Board
elected themselves to the following stag-
gered terms: two-years—Dr. John Newton
Thomas, Dr. Huston St. Clair, J. Stewart
Buxton, Joseph Lanier, Judge Minor
Wisdom; four-years—John F. Hendon,
Joseph E. Birnie, Lewis F. Powell, Jr.,
Joseph T. Lykes, Jr., John M. Stemmons,
Ross L. Malone;  six-years—John WW.
Warner, Mrs. Alfred I. duPont, Cris-
topher T. Chenery.

John W. Warner of Washington, D.C.,
who was elected to the Board last year,
was sworn in at the October meeting.
Gov. Holt’s retirement leaves one vacancy
on the expanded Board.

 

CLASS NOTES

    

7 \

 

 

‘THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’41.

Price: $37.00 f.o.b.

Gardner, Massachusetts

Mail your order to

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

NOTICE: Delivery of orders in-
tended for Christmas cannot be
guaranteed if received after No-
vember 1.

 

 

1909

The College of William and Mary conferred
an honorary Doctor of Laws degree on H.
LesreR Hooker, a member of the State
Corporation Commission for 45 years and a
former member of the college’s board of
visitors, at its summer commencement in
August. A native of Patrick County, Hooker
was educated at William and Mary and at
Washington and Lee’s Law School. He was
named to the State Corporation Commis-
sion in 1924 and served on the William and
Mary board from 1956 to 1964. He is a former
special assistant attorney general of Vir-
ginia and has also served as president of the
Southeastern Traffic Association and _ the
National Association of Regulatory Utility
Commissioners.
1924

A veteran editor-publisher, Barretr C.,
SHELTON Sr. of Decatur, Ala. was the speaker
at the University of Alabama summer com-
mencement exercise in August. The Uni-
versity conferred upon him an_ honorary
Doctor of Laws degree. Shelton has been
publisher of the Decatur Daily since 1924
and has been active in industrial, civic, and
cultural expansion of Decatur and _ north
Alabama. He is a member of the governor's
cabinet which was assembled for the build-
ing of the Lurleen Wallace Cancer and Re-

search Center.
1926

After 34 years with Air Reduction Co., cul-
minating in the presidency of their West

coast division, EMMerr W. MAcCorkLe Jr.

retired, but only for a short while. In Au-
gust, MacCorkle joined Cornish & Carey
Realtors in Palo Alto, specializing in com-
mercial properties,

1928

Co. JuLtus Gotpstrin USAF (Ret.) has been
appointed vice president, in charge of com-
mercial sales, of National Mortgage Corp.
Before joining National Mortgage Corp.,
Col. Goldstein was associated with Shannon
& Luchs. He is a director of the First Na-
tional Bank of Washington, D.C., is actively
engaged in many civic and fraternal organi-
zations, and is past president of the Washing-
ton Hebrew Congregation and the Jewish
Community Center.

193]

GEORGE JUNKIN retired recently after 33 years
of service with the Federal Crop Insurance
Agency of the Department of Agriculture.

1933

Joun F. WATLINGTON JR. of Winston-Salem,
N.C., president of Wachovia Bank and Trust
Co., was recently elected to the board of
trustees of the Virginia Foundation for In-
dependent Colleges, of which Washington
and Lee is a member. Watlington had served
since 1965 as area director in North Carolina
for the VFIC. He has many business connec-
tions and is a trustee of a number of educa-
tional institutions. The VFIC collects and
distributes funds, mostly from corporations,
to 12 independent colleges in Virginia.

CLASS NOYTES.21

1936

James L. Price Jr. has been appointed vice
provost of Duke University and dean of un-
dergraduate education by the _ university's
Board of Trustees. Dr. Price, formerly dean
of Duke’s Trinity College and associate dean
of arts and sciences, is now the chief aca-
demic officer in the undergraduate division
of the university. Dr. Price is also professor
of religion. Before going to Duke in 1952,
Dr. Price taught at Southwestern at Mem-
phis and took his doctoral program at Cam-
bridge University.

1938

The board of directors of Scott and White
Clinic of Temple, Tex. has announced the
election of Dr. A. COMPTON BRODERS JR. as
a member of the board. After serving as a
medical officer in the U.S. Navy during
World War II, Dr. Broders joined the staff
of Scott and White in 1949. Dr. Broders is a
consultant in internal medicine and gastro-
enterology and is currently chief of the sec-
tion of gastroenterology for the clinic. Among
professional associations, Dr. Broders is a
member of the American Medical Associa-
tion, the Texas and Southern Medical As-
sociations, and the American College of Gas-
troenterology. In addition, Dr. Broders has
been the author or co-author of numerous
medical publications. He has been president
of the Temple Cultural Activities Center
and was one of the founders of the St. Fran-
cis’ Episcopal Church.

SAMUEL P. McCuHesNey Jr. retired trom
business in September after 14 years as
Cleveland manager of This Week Magazine.
He is moving to Montserrat, British West
Indies, in mid-October to make his home.
He plans to operate a tire recapping plant
to serve the Leeward and Windward Islands.

194]

Judge Paut D. Brown of Arlington, Va., is
one of 16 members of the Virginia Law En-
forcement Planning Council. He is also chair-

 

Dr. James L. Price, Jr., ’36

22,CLASS NOTES

man of the National Committee on Uniform
Traffic Laws and Ordinance.

1943

WILLIAM J. WiLcox has been named technical
director of production facilities at three
plants of the nuclear division of Union Car-
bide Corp. at Oak Ridge, Tenn. The three
plants, operated by Union Carbide for the
Atomic Energy Commission, are the Oak
Ridge Y-12 plant, and the gaseous diffusion
plants at Oak Ridge and Puducah, Ky.
Wilcox was head of the physics department
at the Oak Ridge gaseous diffusion plant for
10 years, and since 1967 had been superin-
tendent of the gaseous diffusion develop-
ment division.

Radio Station WOPI at Bristol, Tenn., one
of the oldest stations in Tennessee, has an-
nounced the appointment of Francis R.
RUSSELL as news director of the NBC-affili-
ated station. Russell has devoted the last
25 years of his life to the communication
media, working newspaper, radio, television
and public relations both on a divisional
and corporate level.

1944

Warner & Swasey Co. has appointed THOMAs
L. STILWELL its vice president—assistant to
the chairman. Stilwell joined Warner &
Swasey in 1948, was promoted to textiles
sales manager in 1956, and to vice president-
machine tool sales in 1968.

Judge A. M. HARMAN Jr. of Pulaski has
been named to the Virginia Supreme Court
of Appeals by Governor Godwin. He will
succeed Justice A. C. BUCHANAN, W&L ‘14
LLB, of Tazewell, Va. who retired from the
bench September go. Harman practiced law
in Pulaski until his appointment as Judge
of the gist Judicial Circuit in 1964. He
served as a member of the Virginia Consti-
tutional Revision Commission. While practic-
ing in Pulaski, Harman served as town at-
torney from 1944 to 1947. He is a past presi-
dent of the Pulaski County Bar Association

William J. Wilcox, ’43

Thomas L. Stilwell, ’44

and a past vice president of the Virginia
State Bar. Active in community affairs, Har-
man has served as chairman of the Pulaski
County Development Authority, president
of the New River Valley Industrial Founda-
tion, and as a member of the New River
Valley Industrial Commission. He is active
in the state democratic party, has served as
chairman of the State Board of Elections, as
chairman of the County Democratic Commit-
tee, and has been a member of the finance
committee of the Democratic State Central

Committee.
1946

DONALD S. HILLMAN is currentiy the national
director of TV films and radio programs for
the American Cancer Society.

1949

The National Association of Securities
Dealers has named JoHN S. R. SCHOENFELD
its executive vice president. Schoenfeld is
presently administrative partner of Ferris
& Co., a securities firm in Washington, D.C.
He has been in the securities business for

20 years, and with Ferris & Co. since 1952.

Schoenfeld has served NASD in _ various
capacities. He is currently chairman of the
advisory board of the Peoples National Bank

of Maryland.
1950

Shreveport attorney Rospert U. GoopMAN
has been elected president of the 1970 Holi-
day-in-Dixie spring festival. He succeeds an-
other Washington and Lee man, JAMeEs A.
REEDER, ‘55, aS president of the festival.
Goodman served as executive vice president
of this year’s festival and had served as a
vice president in 1968. He has practiced law
in Shreveport since 1955 and is a member of
the board of directors of the Pioneer Bank
& Trust Co., Hicks-Jackson Corp., Shreve-
port Budweiser Distributors, Inc., and Con-
solidated Container Co., Inc. He also serves
aS an assistant state attorney general. Good-
man has been active in business and civic
affairs, and in 1963 and 1964 was named
Shreveport’s Outstanding Young Man _ by
the Jaycees.

Raymond D. Smith, Jr., 55

For the past twelve years, Kim CLARK has
been administrative assistant to USS, Rep.
W. R. Hull, Jr. of Missouri.

DONALD L. Litron is an attorney with the
Bureau of Operating Rights, Civil Aeronau-
tics Board. As a captain in the Naval Re.
serve he also flies with the Lakehurst, N.J.,
Helicopter Squadron. He and his wife and
three sons live in McLean, Virginia.

195]

The directors of the First National Bank of
Memphis have announced the promotion of
MILBURN K. NOELL JR. to vice president and
trust officer. Noell has been associated with
the bank’s trust department since 1963 and
is a member of the Memphis, Shelby County,
Tennessee, and American Bar Associations.

1952

The assistant city editor of the Washington
Star is Puitip Roppins. He also teaches a
journalism course at George Washington

University.
Emory University has announced the pro-

motion of Dr. JOHN RANDOLPH CALVERT to
assistant professor of anesthesiology.

1955

The Bankers Trust Co. of New York has
elected RAYMOND D. SMITH Jr. a vice presi-
dent in the Middle East and Africa group of
its international banking department. Smith
joined Bankers Trust in 1958, and was named
assistant treasurer in credit analysis in 1963
and assistant vice president at the empire
State office in 1967. A director of the Ameri-
can-Arab Association for Commerce and
Industry, Inc., Smith has studied at the
University de Rennes in France as well as
Dartmouth’s Graduate School of Credit and
Financial Management.

The Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co.
of Virginia has named Lowett D. HAMRICK
its comptroller, effective Sept. 1. Since join-
ing C&P in 1955, Hamrick has been division

 

Joseph F. Rowe, Jr., 55

accounting manager, division data processing
manager, and general staff supérvisor of
finance. He also was an accountant with
AT&T in New York.

JoserpH F. Rowe Jr. was elected cashier of
United Virginia Bank/Citizens & Marine in
July. He joined the bank in 1961, was elected
assistant cashier in 1964, and was named
operations officer in 1967. Rowe is also a
director of the UVB Service Corp., a data
processing company serving ten United
Virginia banks in the state, including their
BankAmericard program.

JouHN W. ENGLISHMAN holds a master’s de-
gree from George Washington University
and is currently teaching history at the
junior level at Washington-Lee High School,
where he is also an assistant coach.

While holding a position with American
Security and Trust Co. in Washington, D.C.,
JoHN P. HUEBNER is currently working to-
wards his master’s degree in finance at
American University.

1956
MARRIED: J. Ropert McHenry and Susan
Beachler of Mt. Lebanon, Pa. were married
August 16. Effective September 1, McHenry
will become head lacrosse coach and as-
sistant basketball coach at Yale University.

1957

Mason & Co., member of the New York
Stock Exchange, has expanded its Washing-
ton, D.C. operation. In the managerial
changes, H. GreIG CuMMINGs Jr. will become
a new branch manager.

Joe C. KNAKAL JR. and JOHN ALForD are
broadcasting VMI football games this season
over the VMI Football Network, originated
by Lynchburg station WLGM and carried
by eight Virginia stations. Knakal does the
play-by-play, and Alford does the color.
Broadcasting is a sideline for them; both
are practicing lawyers in Lynchburg.

1958

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. BArRry R. GOLDsMITH,
a son, Andrew Steven Goldsmith, on June
26. The family lives in Syosset, N.Y., where
Goldsmith is with the accounting firm of
Philip Auerbach & Co.

The University of Maryland School of Medi-
cine has named Dr. Freperick J. RAMSAY as
director of the new Office of Research in
Medical Education. The new department
has been established to study the school’s
present curriculum and to plan changes that
will fit the needs of a changing medical prac-
tice and the demands of a changing society.
Dr. Ramsay, who has taught anatomy at the
medical school since 1964, spent the past
year at the Center of Study of Medical Edu-
cation, conducted by the University of
Illinois School of Medicine in Chicago. He
also directs the Office of Research in Medical

Education.
1959

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CLINTON M. EArLy,

a son, Clinton McKellar Early Jr. on June 9.
Early is associated with Orvis Brothers &
Co., a stock brokerage firm in Memphis.

BORN: Maj. and Mrs. BENJAMIN R. WIL-
KERSON, a daughter, Marcia Lee, on July 1.
Maj. Wilkerson is currently in Vietnam.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS B. BRYANT
III, a son, William Brearley, on May 20. The
family lives in Orangeburg, S.C., where Tom
III is practicing law.

ALEXANDER (SANDY) MACNABB has a_ busy
schedule. As an attorney, he is a special as-
sistant to the Director, Community Action
Program, of the Office of Economic Op-
portunity. His other activities include as-
sistant district commissioner for Boy Scouts
in Arlington, membership on the Board of
Directors of Big Brothers, and an area chair-
man for the Girl Scout Fund drive.

The Roller Chain Division of Rex Chain-
belt Inc. has announced the appointment of
Joun L. H. SCHENKEL as its manager for
marketing planning and _ development
Schenkel joined the firm in 1966 as office
supervisor in the Baltimore district sales
office. He lives in Longmeadow, Mass.

1960

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. MERVYN F. SILVERMAN,
a daughter, Stephanie Ann, on June 14. Sil-
verman has just received his master’s degree
in public health from Harvard University
and is currently in Washington, D.C., where
he will be working in the Consumer Protec-
tion & Environmental Health Service in the
field of product safety.

In recent managerial changes of Mason &
Co., member of the New York Stock Ex-
change, JosepH J. SMirH III became manager
of one of the Washington, D.C. branches.
Smith received his M.B.A. from Harvard

University.
1961

James B. Cone has been with IBM in Chicago
for the last four years. He is a marketing
representative of the data processing divi-
sion, specializing in transportation and hotel
industries.

RICHARD WILSON Hoover has been named by
President Nixon as a Foreign Service Officer
of the United States. Hoover received the
appointment after successfully completing
written and oral examinations.

1962

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM M. McKim
Jk., a son, Geoffrey William, on June 11. Dr.
McKim is an assistant professor of English
at Hollins College.

MARRIED: Atan M. Corwin and Miss
Robin Lenore Tannen were married Au-
gust g in Beverly Hills, Calif. Alan is with
the systems department of Kaiser Founda-
tion Health Plan, Inc. in Los Angeles.

In July, Georce A. Crucer became head of
the publications department at the Virginia
Museum in Richmond. In his new position
he is Editor of the Museum’s magazine,

CLASS NOTES 323

Arts in Virginia, and its monthly Member’s

Bulletin.
1963

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES W. REYNOLDS,
a daughter, Sharon Avery, on June 5 in
Boston, Mass. Jim is a physicist with Honey-
well Radiation Center.

1964

MARRIED; WARREN P. Hopkins and Jane
Ann Hibler were married August g in Wes-
tern Springs, Ill. The couple makes their
home in suburban Pittsburgh where Warren
continues to teach at Washington and
Jefferson College.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. MATTHEW HULBERT, a
daughter, Tempie Elizabeth, on July 6. Dr.
Hulbert, after receiving his Ph.D. degree
from the University of Wisconsin, is now
assistant professor in the chemistry depart-
ment at Lehigh University.

Allegheny College of Meadville, Pa., an-
nounces the appointment of RicHARD H.
McCoLtuM as assistant professor of psycho-
logy. McCollum received his master’s degree
from William and Mary and is completing
work towards his Ph.D. at the University of
West Virginia.

While teaching high school in Scarsdale,
N.Y., WILLIAM H. MARMION Jr. earned the
Master of Arts degree from Harvard Uni-
versity in 1966. He was married in 1965 to
the former Jane Ross Lemon of Roanoke and
attended the Episcopal Theological School,
where he was graduated in June, 1969. Or-
dained to the deaconate, he has begun work
as a curate at St. Paul’s Church in Chestnut
Hill near Philadelphia.

After receiving his law degree from the Uni-
versity of Virginia in 1967, James W. HALEY
became law clerk for Judge John W.
Eggleston of the Virginia Supreme Court.
In 1968, he served as Assistant Common-
wealth Attorney for Arlington County. At

present Haley is associated with the law
firm of Lewis, Mitchell and Bixler of
McLean, Va.

1965

After working in Memphis for several years,
Jor, W. Brown has moved to Jacksonville,
Fla., where he is associated with a new office
of Equitable Securities, Morton & Co. The
firm is engaged in corporate and municipal
underwritings and is also active in over-the-
counter stocks and in the various exchanges.

After leaving Braniff International Airways
in Houston, CuristiAN H. CLARKE has moved
to Corpus Christi, where he is associated with
E. L. Caldwell & Sons, Inc. as its assistant
export manager. The firm manufactures
rotary and rolling brush cutter equipment
and other farm implements. Clarke handles
promotion, sales, and shipping activities with
60 free-world nations.

RicHArD C. HARTGROvE has moved to Mary-
land Heights, Mo. where he is an attorney
in the legal department of Southwestern
Bell Telephone Co.

After receiving his Ph.D. degree from the

 

24a CLASS NOTES

University of North Carolina in June, Dr.
BLAINE A. BROWNELL became assistant pro-
fessor of American history at Purdue Uni-
versity, effective in September.

Dr. ADAM J. FreLper received his medical de-
gree from Johns Hopkins University School
of Medicine in June, 1969. He has begun his
internship at the Johns Hopkins Hospital in
obstetrics and gynecology. During his senior
year in med school, Fielder was named a
Henry Strong Denison Scholar as a result of
research he had done in his field.

1966

MARRIED: Tasor R. Novak Jr. and
Caroline Louise Bear were married August
16 in Montgomery, Ala. Among the grooms-
man were: Larry B. Craic III, '67, JOE
Prippy, 66, Joe MILLER, 66, and Davip D.
JACKSON, ‘6g.

After graduating from the National Law
Center at George Washington University
with a Juris Doctor degree in June, BRUCE
S. Kramer is currently clerking for the
Hon. Robert M. McRae Jr., United States
District Court, Western District of Tennessee.
He is married to the former Barbara Levi,
and the couple has one son and live in
Memphis.

FLEMING KEEFE has recently moved to At-
lanta, where he is vice president of the
Charter Commercial & Investment Loan
Co. He was formerly with the parent firm,
The Charter Co. of Jacksonville, Fla.

1967

MARRIED: SAMUEL v. McCuesney, III and
Vicki Storrie were married in Bay Village,
Ohio on June 21. JaMEs D. AwaAb, '67, was a
groomsman; Nep LAwRENCE, ‘68, was best
man. Sam is in his third year of law school
at Case Western Reserve University.

MARRIED: James CLypE TREADWAY JR. and
Susan Pepper Davis were married Sept. 6
in Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia. The couple
will reside in Boston, Mass.

1968

MARRIED: JoserpH AUBREY MATTHEWS JR.
and Rita Nadine Whitt were married August
17 in Cedar Bluff, Va.

MARRIED: Rosert A. CASHILL and Cynthia
Ann Hines were married May 17, in New-
port News, Va. Among the groomsmen were
Joun Jay, 68, PAuL CHEEVER, '67, and Nat
CLEMENT, ‘67.

MARRIED; WitttAM A. COoLom $ Jr. and
Constance L. Brand (RMWC _ '69) were
married June 21, 1968 in Johnson City,
Tenn. The couple resides in Philadelphia.

1969

MARRIED: Grecory E. PARKER and Loretia
June Loudin were married June 27 in Wood-
bridge, Va. The couple lives in Charlottes-
ville where Greg expects to enter the Gra-
duate School of Engineering at the Univer-
sity of Virginia in the applied mathematics/
computer science department.

IN MEMORIAM
1893

The Rev. JoHN Scotr MEREpiITH, the Univer-
sity’s oldest alumnus, died August 13 in
Warrenton, Va. at the age of 101. A native
of Stafford County, Rev. Meredith was em-
ployed as a teenager in Richmond to water
down the city’s dirt streets. He enrolled at
Washington and Lee in 1889 and the Vir-
ginia Theological Seminary in 18go0. Rev.
Meredith served parishes in Waverly, Wake-
field, Ivor, Disputanta, Bristol, Onancock,
Christiansburg, Norfolk, Salem, Greenwood,
and Crozet. He retired from the ministry in

1937.
1900

Dr. SAMUEL B. McPueeters of Goldsboro,
N.C. died May 25. Dr. McPheeters served
with the Army Medical Corps in World
War I, was later associate physician at the
Tuberculosis Sanitorium in Catawba, Va.
He was a former Director of Public Health
in Goldsboro, N.C. While at Washington and
Lee, McPheeters was captain of the 1899

football team.
1909

CARL HINTON, prominent pioneer resident of
Hinton, W.Va., died August 5. Hinton was
the grandson of John and Avis Hinton, after
whom the city was named, and he was the
last direct male descendant of the city’s
founders. He served as postmaster for 21
years before his retirement. Hinton also
served as a member of the city council for

eight years.
1911

KirBy W. Sevier, a retired employee of the
United States Steel Corp., died in Birming-
ham, Ala. on July 21.

1912

Jupce A. G. Livery died March 1, 1968 in
Lebanon, Va. At its regular meeting on No-
vember 11, 1968, the Russell County Bar
Association adopted a resolution in his
memory and directed that the resolution be
spread of record in the Common Law Order
book of the Circuit Court.

1914

WaLrerR G. WoMBLE, former assistant engi-
neer with the Seaboard Airline Railroad,
died August 2 in Norfolk.

James H. Rowan, a retired educator and
civic leader of South Boston, Va., died Au-
gust go. Mr. Rowan was principal of the
former C. H. Friend High School in South
Boston for 14 years. After retiring as prin-
cipal at C. H. Friend, Mr. Rowan was office
manager of the Carter plant of J. P. Stevens
and Co., Inc. for a number of years. He
also served as secretary of the South Boston
School Board and was a former chairman of
the Committee for Control, the joint Halifax
County-South Boston board which operates
Halifax County and Mary Bethune high
schools.

1923

WILLIAM GAGE Boyp, formerly in the insyr-
ance and real estate business in Jacksonville,
Fla., died July 11. Originally from Memphis,
Tenn. Mr. Boyd was a 32nd degree Mason
and prior to his death had been affiliated
with the Riverside Memorial Park Cemetery
Assn. for 20 years.

1924

Epwin J. Ginson, former chief mining engi-
neer for Evans Elchorn Coal Co., died April
26. He lived in Garrett, Ky.

1925

THomMAs M. Comecys Jr., an attorney in
Shreveport, La., died June 11 following a
long illness. Interested in mental health
work, Comegys was a former president of
the Caddo-Bossier branch of the Louisiana
Association for Mental Health and was a
member of the board of the National As-
sociation for Mental Health. He was among
those instrumental in_ establishing the
Shreveport Mental Health Center. Comegys
was one of the first presidents of the Louisi-
ana Wildlife and Fisheries Commission. Dur-
ing his career, he served as the chief attor-
ney for the Office of Price Stabilization in
Louisiana during the Truman administra-
tion.

1926

CLYDE FRANCIS LANKENAN of Savannah, Ga.
died July 11.

193]

Dr. DENMAN CARTER HUCHERSON, a long-
time orthopedic surgeon in Houston, died
July 24. At the time of his death, Hucher-
son was an associate professor of orthopedic
science at the Baylor College of Medicine
and the University of Texas Post Graduate

School.
1934

JONATHAN BRECKENRIDGE STOVALL JR., busi-
nessman and former Lynchburg Republican
Committee chairman, died July 22. A veteran
of World War II, Stovall became chairman
of Lynchburg’s Republican Committee in
1952. He was also active for many years in
state GOP activities. Stovall was president
of J. P. Bell Co., Inc. of Lynchburg.

1938

Victor Lee Tucker, a commander in the
Navy and a former Navy law specialist at
the Marine Corp Recruit Depot in Parris
Island, S.C., died June 14 in Salem, Va.
After distinguished service in World War
II, he was recalled to active duty in 1950
and held many assignments, including one
tour of duty in the Philippine Islands.

1956

REUBEN BANE Jones, a Newport News
lawyer, drowned July 19 in the Potomac
River near Washington, D.C. He was canoe-
ing with friends. Jones was originally from
Clifton Forge.

GENERAL LEE’S COLLEGE

A history of Washington and Lee University
by Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw

Professor of History and University Historian

Published by Random House, New York
Price: $10.00

This book is a work of devotion and painstaking scholar-
ship on the part of the University’s distinguished

a : historian. It will have deep meaning for everyone who
OLLINGER | a has shared the Washington and Lee experience. For all,

it is an important record of the development of one
of the nation’s great institutions.

Here is the story of Washington and Lee University as
only Dr. Crenshaw could tell it—from its beginnings as a
small classical academy to a place of prominence in
education that continues today. It is a story of crises
met and overcome, of self-sacrifice for the good of the
institution, of changing perspectives, of unusual
educational foresight, of personalities, great teachers,
outstanding administrators, distinguished alumni

who personify the best of Washington and Lee.

ne ats

= ee > i

|
a ®

 

It is a book no alumnus of Washington and Lee, no
friend of Washington and Lee, no patron of higher
education can afford to be without. Be sure to obtain a
first edition copy. Please fill in and return the attached
order form today. Mail it to The Bookstore, Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450,
together with your payment of $10.00 plus a 75-cent
handling charge for each copy purchased.

 

ORDER FORM

THE BOOKSTORE
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me________copy(ies) of General Lee’s College, a
history of Washington and Lee University by Dr. Ollinger Cren-
shaw, at $10.00 each. (Include 75 cents handling charges for
each copy purchased).

 

Name

 

Address Zip Code

Payment of $______is enclosed.

WASHINGTON & LEE ALUMNUS

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Campus Calendar

 

