JAMES G. LEVBURN LIBRARY
WASHIWATON & Liat TY

 

. VA mt
HOV 0 9 1994

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LEFT
The Four Seasons.

Autumn

1993-94

Synthetic polymer
paint, oil, pencil, and
crayon On canvas
10'31/5" x 6'23/4"
(313.7 x 189.9 cm.)
Private Collection.

BACK COVER
Summer Madness
1990

Oil, gouache, pencil,
and crayon on paper
59" x 499/."

(150 x 126 cm.)
Collection Udo and
Anette Brandhorst.

ATU

12 / Without Fear or Favor.

In an age when hands-on drive and acumen are in short supply
among university leaders, President John Wilson is an anomaly.
18 / Louie, Louie.

our decades before his ascension to the Supreme Court,

Lewis Powell Jr. °29, °31L was a big man on the W&L campus.

22 / Generation L.

For 30- and 40-something students at Washington and Lee,

law is a second career—and their first priority. Why the change?
26 / Cy of Relief.

After 37 years abroad, Cy ‘Twombly, modern art’s “Granddaddy

of Disorder,” rediscovers the quiet of his native Lexington.

ART NEM

2 / From the Alumni President.

Bob Wittpenn reviews Homecoming and previews the coming year.

3 / On the Shoulders of Giants.

A perfect match: Harte and Lenfest ante up for a $5 million challenge.

4 / Letters.
How did Pax Davis remember so much? What’s the hidden message in the

Leyburn Library poster? And whose arm was that on the cover, anyway?

6 / The Colonnade.

A long trip home for Annie Lee; encouraging words about financial aid;

a five-point jump in U.S. News; and another first for women alumni.

32 /W&L Law.

Dean Barry Sullivan addresses first-year students on being a lawyer.

34 / The Generals’ Report.

Marc Newman °95 feels right at home with a pigskin, but don’t ask
him to eat a stew made of goat’s head. (We'll explain everything.)
36 / Alumni News.

Homecoming pix: a queen, a mink, and the largest gathering of alumni

leaders you'll see all year. Also: Highlights from Hamlet to Hardy.

40 / Class Notes.
Remembering the music of Miss Emily Pearse. Also: a W&L coach hangs

up his clubs; and an Alabama minister finds a calling in children’s books.

56 / Last Word.

Forrest Gump, it wasn’t: A fast finis for Foreign Student.

On the Cover: World-renowned modern artist Cy T'wombly °53
is shown at his work-in-progress, a new studio in Lexington.
Photo by W. Patrick Hinely °73.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

A. Stevens Miles Jr. ‘51, Rector
John D. Wilson, President

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC.
(OFFICERS

Robert K. Wittpenn ‘82

President (Peapack, N.J.)

E. Neal Cory Il 77

Vice President (Louisville, Ky.)

James D. Farrar Jr. ‘74

Secretary and Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

Robert W.H. Mish Ill ‘76

Associate Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

DIRECTORS

Michael D. Armstrong °77 (Atlanta, Ga.)

R.K. Barton III °63 (Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.)
Walter S. Blake °72 (Dallas, Texas)

T. Talbott Bond °51 (Baltimore, Md.)

Matthew J. Calvert ’75, °79L (Richmond, Va.)
Ben S. Gambill Jr. °67 (Nashville, Tenn.)

B. Dallas Hagewood °90 (Atlanta, Ga.)

J. Michael Jenkins III °64 (Montgomery, Ala.)

H. Drake Leddy *71 (San Antonio, Texas)

Henry “Skip” Nottberg III °71 (Kansas City, Mo.)
Alexa A. Salzman °89 (San Francisco, Calif.)
Jackson R. Sharman III ’83 (Washington, D.C.)
Hatton C.V. Smith *73 (Birmingham, Ala.)

J.E. “Jet” Taylor II °84 (Walnut Creek, Calif.)
James M. Turner Jr. °67, °71L (Roanoke, Va.)
Tinkham Veale III °69 (Devon, Pa.)

H. William Walker Jr. °68, °71L (Miami, Fla.)
Donald W. Weir Jr. °72 (Shreveport, La.)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
OFFICERS

Thomas MeN. Millhiser ’81L
President (Richmond, Va.)
James C. Treadway Jr. ‘67L
Vice President (New York, N.Y.)

LAW COUNCIL

Charles M. Berger 68L (Charlotte, N.C.)

Alfred J.T. Byrne °65, 68L (Washington, D.C.)
James M. Costan '74L (Washington, D.C.)
Robert M. Couch °78, ’82L (Birmingham, Ala.)
William R. Goodell ’80L (Adanta, Ga.)
Theodore D. Grosser ’77L (Cincinnati, Ohio)
Robin P. Hartmann °71L (Dallas, Texas)

Milton T. Herndon °56L (Charleston, W.Va.)
The Hon. William B. Hill Jr. °74, °77L (Adianta, Ga.)
Carol L. Hoshall *83L (Alexandria, Va.)

John D. Klinedinst '71, °78L (San Diego, Calif.)
Tabor R. Novak Jr. 66, °69L (Montgomery, Ala.)
Dana C. Petersen *82L (Baltimore, Md.)

The Hon. W. Ray Price *78L (Jefferson City, Mo.)
Laurie A. Rachford ’84L (Houston, Texas)
David D. Redmond °66, ’69L (Richmond, Va.)
B. Cary Tolley III *78L (Darien, Conn.)

Patricia A. Van Allan ’80L (Houston, Texas)
Wilson F. Vellines Jr. °68, °73L (Staunton, Va.)
John A. Wolf 69, °72L (Baltimore, Md.)

From the Alumni President

Investment Opportunities

Homecoming weekend is one of the many highlights on the Washington and
campus and alumni calendars, and Homecoming 1994 was no exception. With a |g
number of Five-Star Generals and recent graduates back on campus; seminars such
“The Press of the Press,” with George Goodwin °39 ay
professor of journalism and humanities Edwin Yoder;

 

 

   

school of law’s annual John Randolph ‘Tucker Leety,
featuring Duke law professor Paul Carrington; and eye
the area premiere of Foreign Student, there were mg
reasons to celebrate. While not the Freshman Paja

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
   
   
    
 
  
  
 
   
  

Parade of years past, the Homecoming parade contin
its two-year-old “tradition” with many imaginative flo
(such as the one opposite page 56 of this magazine),
all counts, it was a great weekend and I would encoura
you to visit campus whenever you get a chance.

Every three years, your Alumni Association sp¢
sors a chapter presidents conference which was held ¢
fall on Homecoming weekend. ‘This is an opportunity
update these important volunteers on events and issues at the University, to revi
some of the logistical details of chapter programming, to say thank you for th
efforts on behalf of Washington and Lee, and most importantly, to exchange ide
with each other and members of the Alumni Board and staff.

With more than 50 of our 82 chapters represented, there was a tremendous amo
of valuable and detailed sharing of ideas and brainstorming. ‘Through panel prese
tions, round-table discussions and other, less formal settings, many topics were c¢
ered: chapter organization; the alumni admissions program; identifying and recruiti
chapter volunteers; chapter events and programming; chapter involvement in €
Annual Fund; and the importance of programming for all our alumni—undergra¢
ates and law graduates, alumni and alumnae, recent and older graduates.

This conference was very well received, with all of the representatives welcomi
the opportunity to exchange ideas. I know that we planted a lot of seeds and I%
confident that our volunteer leaders, working together with the Alumni Office sta
can act on these ideas to continue to strengthen our chapters throughout the count
Our sincere thanks to all of the attendees for participating in the conference. 7

You can help your chapter’s leadership carry out this mission. Perhaps you W
offer to serve on the board of your local chapter. Maybe the chapter could host
event in your home or club. Maybe you know a local person who could be a keyne
speaker at a chapter luncheon. Telephoning prior to events improves attendance,
maybe you can call 10 or 12 alumni encouraging them to attend. If you enjoy writif
perhaps you could help with a chapter newsletter. Even simply attending an event
a valued way to contribute.

Why get involved? Most of us enjoyed our time at Washington and Lee. I do
think you’d be reading this magazine or be this far in my letter if that were nott
case. We must keep Washington and Lee alive and well at the local level—ouf
chapters. Through our local chapters, alumni can stay in touch with the Univers!
renew old friendships, meet new people, recruit new students—the list of opportu!
ties is long. | am confident you will enjoy your investment.

Robert K. Wittpenn ’82
President, WEL Alumni Association

Lenfest, Harte Pledge
On (Ne A $5 Million Match

Emeritus trustee Houston H. Harte ’50 and trustee and national campaign chair-
hou ah man H.F. (Gerry) Lenfest ’53 have joined forces to extend the Washington and Lee
family a $5 million challenge toward completing the University’s $127 million capital
campaign, On the Shoulders of Giants. ‘The twin $2.5 million offers from Harte and
( Lenfest come with roughly nine months and $15 million remaining to reach goal.
ANTS The announcement was made public by President John Wilson during
Homecoming weekend activities in Lexington Sept. 30 and at the campaign’s penul-
timate kickoff event, on Oct. 5 in New Orleans. Both Harte and Lenfest expressed
the hope that the full $5 million would be met by responsive campaign gifts well
before the scheduled end of the campaign in June 1995.
“These extraordinarily generous men have provided all of us—as alumni, parents,
and friends—the opportunity to be as generous as we can possibly be in fulfilling
Washington and Lee’s endowment and physical needs,” says rector A. Stevens Miles
Jr. 51. “Only through a successful campaign can we hope to provide the bright future
we want for our institution—for students and faculty alike.”
The $5 million challenge fund will
provide a dollar-for-dollar match for

 

campaign gifts of whatever size or pur-
pose. When fully met, the challenge
fund will form a general campaign
resource to help fulfill any of the
numerous endowment and physical
objectives making up the $127 million
goal, such as endowment support for
scholarships and academic programs
att : noe . . and for the new science center.
ae oF ee  eatip idan aie SRT a Seca meeps a ; a Any gift of any size for any of the
ne Bak ee | : SE official campaign purposes will apply.
The only exception will be Annual
Fund gifts made through the regular
class agent or regular phonathon solici-
tation methods. All gifts made for the
ae * AS org we campaign through the Victory phase
4 ae a San ote effort, including pledges designated for
a ane Re oa a the Annual Fund, will qualify for the
match. Successful completion of the
challenge will add $10 million to the

SS Rs
5 yi 8S

 

“a :
—t.

Digging deeper: Construction is underway bottom line of the campaign, which has raised $112 million to date.

Jor the new science center, which will link “Our gratitude for Houston and Gerry’s dramatic and exceedingly generous chal-
Howell (/, it) and Parmly halls. The project, lenge offer truly knows no bounds,” says leadership gifts chairman James F. Gallivan
lucketed at d21 million, will be paid for by 51. “Their challenge comes at a most opportune time in what has been a most suc-
Rifts to the capital : ampaign. cessful effort to date.”

Harte is chairman of the board of Harte-Hanks Communications in San Antonio,
Texas, and completed two terms as a Washington and Lee trustee in 1992. Lenfest is
a pioneer and leader in the international cable ‘TV industry as chairman of Lenfest
Communications, based in Pottstown, Pa. Both alumni are longtime supporters of the
University, having made key contributions toward the University’s endowment objec-
tives and what is now the Lenfest Center for Performing Arts at the outset of the
campaign.

Letters

The Pax Davis Legacy

When one thinks of professors who
had anything to do with the way we
turned out in the 1950s, Paxton Davis
comes to mind. He was the tough-mind-
ed erudite journalism professor who
made you challenge your own beliefs
and hit you on the thumb if you didn’t.
His criticism of student writing was pre-
cise, concise, and always constructive.
His well-formed script in the margins or
at the end of a paper was always signed
with the initials ‘jpd.” But once you
made the grade he was your friend for
life, and the formal initials gave way to
“Pax” in his letters and notes. ‘There is a
generation of hard-edged journalists and
people in public affairs who owe so
much to Pax. If you told him so before
he died you were rewarded with a smile
and no more. That was more than
enough to make your day.

William H. Fishback Jr. °56
Charlottesville, Va.

I remember Paxton Davis vividly as a
brilliant, attractive, intelligent, and hard-
working assistant professor of journalism
to our master, Professor O.W. Riegel.
Back in the mid-’50s, the two of them
ran the journalism department with such
enthusiasm that we students formed a
strongly united small group of fans who
fell definitely in love with both journal-
ism and literature. “Pax” was a warm,
humorous, sharp-tongued young man
whose influence I always wanted to pay
tribute to. I find it sad that we had to
wait for his departure to read so many
tributes, while he could have been rec-
ognized in more ways before he died.
Those of us, adult and mature today,
who used to drink coffee at his invita-
tion in what was called the “barracks” at
his minute home will always cherish the
memory of a brilliant and free spirit.

Philippe Labro ’58
Paris

I was among the students of the first
class that Pax Davis met when he came
to Washington and Lee to teach in
September 1953. He often remarked
how disconcerting it was for him that
day, confronting a student who was
more nearly bald than he was.

With that memorable moment, we
began an enduring friendship that I
shall always treasure. With his sharp
mind and keen sense of humor, Pax was
always a welcome companion, both in
our many associations within the W&L
framework and in our everyday lives.
His mind was the keenest I’ve ever
known, his thinking both rational and
provocative.

Back in the mid-1960s, Pax and I rep-
resented the faculty in a trivia contest
sponsored by WLUR. We didn’t win,
but our strong second-place finish
behind the ZBT fraternity team earned
us an interview with a Ring-tum Phi
reporter, who was impressed with the
scope of our recollection of intellectual
junk. “How do you remember all this
stuff?” the student asked. Pax had a
ready answer: “These aren’t things you
have to remember—these are things you
can’t forget”

‘Those of us who knew and loved Pax
Davis will have no trouble remembering
him, for he was indeed someone you can
never forget.

Frank Parsons °54
Washington and Lee

Civil Ceremony

Word through the grapevine says that
my arm is nicely displayed on the cover
of your magazine, along with my sister
(the bride) and our cousin. My father,
Robert Park °61, wanted me to attend
W&L, but that was in the dark ages
before you allowed the gentler sex to
study behind your ivied walls.

One anecdote you might find amus-
ing: While we were at Lee Chapel
rehearsing for the wedding of my sister,
Katherine Park °90, to Vance Drawdy
"89, °92L, my daughter noticed General
Lee reclined on the stage of the chapel.
Being a typical three-year-old, she asked

 
   
  
 
    
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
  

me who that was up there, and wh
was “taking a nap there.” Seeing }
we were surrounded by W&L grads.
several “un-reconstructed Southe
I did my best to describe Genera]
historical significance in terms a th
year-old could comprehend. Lar
when her daddy came to pick her
she said, “Daddy, do you know who ¢
man is? That’s God.” And her da
replied, “To some people here in
South, that’s right, honey.”

In any event, we sure enjoyed
visit to your beautiful campus, as it
the perfect setting for a lovely wedd
between two devoted W&L alumni,

Deborah Park Wickiser

Niskayuna, N.Y.

Re-examining FIJI

Phi Gamma Delta was not allowe
rush this fall, nor were members of
fraternity permitted to live int
house this school year. By their
accounts, they held a pledge rally, di
some beer and other alcohol with
pledges, played some drinking gan
and had an in-cadence drill consistin
less than 20 push-ups. Three ple
got their clothes wet in the shower \
one pledge accidentally turned on
water. This was considered to be ¢
pelled drinking and physical abuse,
defined as “serious” hazing.

Even though the current plec
(one depledged) didn’t feel it was
ing, the IFC judicial board put FIJ
suspension and referred the matt
the SAC for review. With a meme
the dean of freshmen (based on one
sion of events) as the basis for its
ing, the SAC significantly increased
IFC penalty and disregarded int
actions taken immediately by th
house corporation president Ed Bi
68 to correct the situation.

While hazing is against the law in
Commonwealth of Virginia under
statutes, which are clear, hazing did
occur. There was no injury, much le¢
serious one. The University’s 1999
Student Handbook contained no $
ment of University policy on haz

  

t ch less definitions or guidelines of
what was CO be considered hazing.

The SAC violated University regula-
s when it suspended FIJI. It is clear-
in the 1993-94 Handbook that
non-death-related hazing can result in
suspension only if the fraternity had
been previously placed on critical proba-
tion (wording deleted by the dean of
students from the 1994-95 Handbook).

The IFC violated the Student Hand-
hook by referring the matter to the SAC
without the mandated three-quarters
approval of its non-judicial board mem-
bers as required by its Constitution.

Basically, FIJI violated pledge train-
ing activity rules, was caught, and
appeared to be punished adequately by
its peers, the IFC judicial board. A close
examination of what occurred casts
severe doubt on the “serious” hazing
issue grabbed by the administration.
Childish behavior? Yes! Foolish? Yes!
But serious hazing? No way!

When SAE and Beta violated hazing
rules (according to the dean of students)
following the FIJI incident, nothing,
basically, happened to them. Their pun-
ishment remained appropriate and in
student government hands. The IFC
handled their cases without referring
them to the faculty-dominated SAC.
Perhaps this is an indication how the
IFC intends to keep future hazing pun-
ishments in student hands and away
from unilateral SAC enhancement.

I can appreciate the desire to defuse
this issue and move on. But if we move
“ahead” by condoning this heavyhand-
edness through silence, we can expect
more of the same. The SAC overreacted
to send a message. But what is its mes-
Sage? Hazing has yet to be properly
defined in terms the kids can under-
stand. What is “emotional violence”?

_ The IFC judicial board placed sanc-
tons on Phi Gamma Delta including
indefinite suspension with the opportu-
nity to appeal for reinstatement to the
SAC, beginning with the winter of 1994.
Critical probation was recommended.

Was the SAC enhancement action
necessary? Whatever happened to being
epee This is perhaps the core of
an me Does the SAC intend to treat

ure incidents in the same harsh

hh

tions W
ly stated

manner? Will the IFC even trust future
incidents to SAC review?

I believe the Board of ‘Trustees will
continue to support revisions of the
Student Handbook focusing on clarifica-
tion and jurisdiction. First define the
crime. Then enforce it equally. If that
happens, perhaps something of value to
the University can flow from this mess,
although it is unlikely to offset the feel-
ing of injustice a specific group of alum-
ni will take with them as they graduate
from Washington and Lee.

R.K. Barton IIl °63
Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.

Barton ts a Phi Gamma Delta and a
member of the Alumni Board.

On the back cover of the summer
Alumni Magazine is a line drawing by
Lance Hidy showing a tree covered with
52 letters of the alphabet in front of the
Leyburn Library. At first glance, it ap-
pears that the tree contains all 26 letters
in upper- and lower-case forms. But that
is not quite true. Missing is the capital
“M,” and in its place is an “&.” What
message is the artist trying to convey?

Spike Schulist °53
Kentfield, Calif.

University Librarian Barbara Brown
replies: Youre not the first to notice the
missing letter! However, it came as a
surprise to the artist when I mentioned
it to him. There is no hidden meaning. I
think that the whimsy and movement in
the alphabet tree prompt the viewer to
imagine the whole host of information
resources to which the Leyburn Library
and its staff provide the gateway.

‘The Alumni Magazine of Washington
and Lee welcomes /etters. Address corre-
spondence to: University Editor, Washington
and Lee, Publications Office, Lexington, VA
24450. All letters should include the author's
name, address, and daytime phone number.
Letters selected for publication may be edited
for length, content, and style.

 

Photos (pages 6 and 7): Brian D. Shaw

The Colonnade

 

 

 

The reinterment ceremony in Lee Chapel

Sept. 29: “It was all done in great rever-
ence,” says Jimmy Edwards, great grandson
of a Confederate veteran and owner of the
White Funeral Home in Warren County.
“It’s not very often that a funeral home gets
to rebury Robert E.. Lee’s daughter.”

Annie Lee’s Unlikely Homecoming

Lee’s ‘Little Raspberry’ Fuels a War Between Two State

At precisely 9 p.m. on Sept. 29, a light brown van drove up Letcher Avenue .
turned onto the sidewalk that goes in front of Lee Chapel. The unmarked vehi
proceeded past the front of the chapel, turned left, and headed down the grassy si
to the wide double-doors near the Lee family crypt. Save for a few University offi
and a persistent teleyjs
crew from Roanoke ¢}
had been camped out
more than 14 hours”
record the event, no ¢
was watching.

Under the glare of ;
TV lights, the rear of ¢
van was opened and fo
men removed the simp
yellow pine box adorr
with a wooden cross.
men carried the &
inside, away from the J
lights, and slid it inte
space in the crypt next
Eleanor Agnes Lee.

After more than 1
years, Anne Carter Le
the third daughter ©
General. Robert E.
and Mary Custis Lee,
reunited with her family.

General Lee did little to hide the knowledge that Anne Carter Lee was his favori
daughter. His third of four daughters and the fifth of seven children, Annie was bt
on June 18, 1838, at Arlington, Va, with a birthmark that prompted her father to¢
her “Little Raspberry.” As a child, Annie suffered an accident with scissors that p
out an eye. The disfigurement left her too shy to sit for photographs or portraits. 7

According to Mary Coulling, author of The Lee Girls, little is known of Annie. 5
was sensitive about her looks, she was closest to her sister, Agnes, and was the me
responsible of the daughters. She was trusted to run the plantation when her pa
were away. Sensing that Annie might have a tougher time in life than her siblin
Lee left her more money in an early will than the others because he thought
might never marry. Lee called her “the purest and best” of his children.

Annie was 23 when the Civil War began. When federal troops took over the Let
Arlington home, Annie and her sisters went to North Carolina. In June 1862, they
ited White Sulphur Springs, a resort owned by the William Duke Jones family. 4
two months, Annie wrote to her mother complaining of dizziness and headaches. 9
was diagnosed with typhoid fever, presumably from drinking contaminated wat
Anne Carter Lee died a few weeks later, on Oct. 20, 1862. Her mother came t0®
for her and her sisters were also there. General Lee was sent word by courier ane
said to have wept openly when he received the news. With the family home in ¢
hands of Federal troops, the Lees were not sure where to bury their daughtet.
Joneses offered their family cemetery in a secluded glade two miles from the sp™
and the Lees accepted. They braided Annie’s raven hair, decorated it with flo
and laid her in a homemade pine coffin. They buried her and returned to Virginia.

 

-

At one time Warren County was the
hest county in North Carolina. Ital-
e. Federalist, and Greek Revival
ns lined the main street of
n. Folks came from all over to

ric
janat
mansio

Warrento ge
ke the waters at White Sulphur

ta ;

Springs and the county s economy

.d along on cotton and tobacco.
chugged alons

Lee visite
when the county w :
declared then that Annie should remain
“in that lovely, quiet spot undisturbed.”

d his daughter’s grave in 1870
as still thriving. He

Then the world changed. As the
overworked fields gave out and the
post-war economy shifted to manufac-
curing, Warren County was left in the
dust. White Sulphur Springs lay under a
swamp. The stately mansions were
boarded up and residents started mov-
ing to metropolitian areas. Warrenton
became a shell of its former self.

The same could be said of the Jones
family cemetery, which fell into disre-
pair and became the target of vandals in
the mid-’80s. The 11-foot obelisk that
marked Annie’s grave had been toppled,
along with other monuments in the
cemetery, and there were whispers of
cult gatherings at the site. It was clear
that something had to be done.

Then, in 1987, Col. Joe Ruth, com-
mander of the local Smith-Hargrove
Camp 311 of the Sons of Confederate
Veterans, contacted Mary Coulling to
report the vandalism, and the two dis-
cussed steps that would result in the dis-
interment of Annie from Warren County
and the reinterment with her family in
the crypt in Lee Chapel. Nothing could
be done, however, without the consent
of the Lee family. That task fell to Anne
Carter Lee Ely Zimmer of Upperville,
Va., the granddaughter of Anne Carter
Lee's youngest brother, who is compil-
ing a cookbook of Lee family recipes.
| The movement gathered momentum
in March 1993 when Capt. Robert Peni-
ston, director of Lee Chapel, visited the
eemetery. He brought back photographs
pad videotape that documented the van-
dalism. Working with Zimmer and Larry
Norman, an attorney who was also a
Member of the local SCV chapter, corre-
*Pondence quietly flowed from Virginia
to North Carolin

1 a for more than a year.
he Order of th

e Stars and Bars caught

~ ——

wind of the plan and immediately spent
$4,000 to restore the cemetery. The
group pledged, along with the UDC, to
maintain the site and to protect it from
future vandalism.

‘Then the Associated Press picked up
the story from the Winston-Salem Sentinel
in July, and Annie Lee became headline
fodder for newspapers and ‘I’V stations
throughout the mid-Atlantic. What
Zimmer had hoped would be a quiet
exercise turned into a media event
labelled as “a polite argument between
the Lee descendents and the North
Carolinians who wanted her to remain.”

“I didn’t want to make a fuss,” Zim-
mer told the Richmond Times-Dispatch. “|
did hope everyone would be together.
...[t raised such huge emotion and such
contention which General Lee would
have hated.” ‘The request stayed.

In August, Larry Norman, who by
then had the Lee family’s power of
attorney, received affadavits from the
family members stating that they had no
objection to the removal of Annie Lee
and her reinterment in the family crypt.
“The law makes it clear that the only
factor to be considered in issuing a per-
mit for disinterment is the wishes of sur-
viving family members,” Warren
County health director Dennis Retzlaff

TTT
4 iy : x -

said in a statement. He signed the disin-
terment order on Sept. 27.

The following morning, members of
the local chapter of SCV gathered at the
cemetery with picks and shovels to
begin the task. After four hours of dig-
ging, the remains of Annie Lee were
located and placed in a coffin made
especially for the occasion by a member
of the SCV chapter. One local UDC
member was present while the work
proceeded, but there was no opposition.

The remains were brought to Lex-
ington Sept. 29 and kept at Harrison’s
Funeral Home. The time of the reinter-
ment was kept secret at the family’s
request, and all the media left except
the one ‘TV station that stayed until the
end.Once Anne Carter Lee’s remains
were placed in the crypt, a short cere-
mony was conducted by Thomas V.
Litzenburg °57, acting University chap-
lain. A memorial service for the Lee
family and the University community
was scheduled for late October.

With the reinterment, Anne Carter
Lee was reunited with her family for the
first time since the outbreak of the Civil
War. It was also the first time she had
been to Lexington, since Lee did not
assume the presidency of Washington
College until 1865.—By Brian Shaw

 

The vandalized Warrenton (N.C.) gravesite of Annie Lee as it appeared in March 1993. “I'm

just glad it is over,” Annie’s next-of-kin, Anne Zimmer, told the Richmond ‘Times-Dispatch.

Campaign Creates 84
Scholarships—So Far

This fall’s entering freshman class of
some 440 students marks a new chapter
in the area of scholarships and financial
aid for Washington and Lee. For the
first time in recent years, no one who
was admitted to the University declined
because he or she was denied financial
aid. Last year, 40 students chose not to
come to W&L because they were not
offered aid. The year before that, the
number was a staggering 100.

This encouraging news is a direct
result of the capital campaign, On the
Shoulders of Giants, which is seeking
$31 million for financial aid and scholar-
ships, the largest endowment compo-
nent of the $127 million campaign.
Through Sept. 30, nearly $26.8 million
in gifts and pledges has led to the cre-
ation of 84 new scholarships.

“An unusual degree of pride and sat-
isfaction results from the creation of
scholarships,” says Farris P. Hotchkiss
58, vice president for university rela-
tions at W&L. “It’s about as direct a
way as I know to have an immediate
impact on the life of a young person at
Washington and Lee.”

John Thrall, a freshman nose guard
and a Phi Kappa Psi pledge from
Dumfries, Va., could have gone to
Princeton, Duke,
or the University
of Virginia, but he
came to Wash-
ington and Lee
instead as the first
recipient of the
Robertson Honor
Scholarship.
Although the scholarship was a big

 

influence in his decision to choose
W&L, the size and friendliness of the
people here were also factors. “My par-
ents left the decision open to me,” says
the Thomas Jefferson High School grad-
uate, “but they did say that accepting
the scholarship to Washington and Lee
would make more funds available to me
for graduate school.” Thrall hopes to
combine majors in science and in the
commerce school on a pre-med track—
and he’d like to bring crew back.

 

 

Among the 18 new undergraduate faculty members at Washington and Lee are (front row,

to right) Lesley Wheeler, assistant professor, English; Marcia B. France, assistant professor

chemistry; Jeanine Stewart, assistant professor, psychology; Morgan W. Fuller "92, instracté

chemistry; Kelly 8S. Simpson °90, instructor, psychology; Eduardo A. Velasquez, assistant pre

fessor, politics; (back row) Anna Brodsky, assistant professor, German/Russian; Claudia Ey

Andrews, assistant professor, English; Allen E.. Johnson, ABD Fellow, English; Matthet

Moran, instructor, biology; Jeff M. Konz, assistant professor, economics; and Douglas C.

Szajda, assistant professor, mathematics. Not pictured are Agnes Carbrey, assistant professt

art; Andrew J. Holliday, assistant professor, economics; Roger Mudd ’50, professor, journak

ism: Daniel Perdue, assistant professor, religion; Winnifred F.. Sullivan, assistant professors
: F 7 ’

religion; and Pamela J. Vermeer, assistant professor, computer science.

By coincidence, Ju/iana Edmunds of
Columbia, S.C., met John Thrall when
they were visiting Princeton at the same
time. She came to
W&L instead of
Princeton, Dart-
mouth, the Uni-
versity of North
Carolina, and
Sewanee, thanks
in large part to
the Darnall W.
Boyd Jr. Memorial Honor Scholarship. A
graduate of the Hammond School, she
played softball and was class valedictori-
an, Civinettes president, vice president
of the Honor Society, and voted by her
classmates as most likely to succeed.
“There is nothing I don’t like about
W&L,” she says. “It has the perfect bal-
ance between fun and studies. I love the
area, its history, and the people.”

Washington and Lee ts the only

school in the country that does not
tuition revenue to fund financial ¢
According to William M. Hartog
dean of admissions and financial %
some schools draw as much as 40 pt
cent of tuition dollars, with the avefa
in the 20 percent range. W&L’s rel
tance to follow suit keeps its tuition It
compared to other private colleges.
“Washington and Lee has an€&
tremely competitive tuition that mé
us a best buy in America, according
many surveys,” Hartog says.
downside of that is we still don’t B
enough money to meet the demands
admitted students.” With rising tule
and other escalating expenses, the ne
for these financial aid dollars will ®
increase each year, he adds. |
The pressure on universities (0
vide financial aid is enormous. Fe
programs have disappeared; fam
incomes have not kept up with ri

‘on: and frankly, financial aid is an
con, :

tul € ek
; 4 art O

regral P
fs F these days. “Our goal is to get the
e oO ‘ d

money in the hands of the people who
really need it the most, ane to enroll the
Rost attractive candidates, says Hartog.
The competition for the s and en
brightest “is extraordinary,” he adds, 3
simple problem of supply and come

Approximately 30 percent of W&L S
nt body receives financial aid dol-
m the University. Of the W&L
ailable, 20 percent is allotted

1e college recruitment

stude
lars fro

dollars av
for merit-based (honor) scholarships,

while the remaining 80 percent is
entirely for need-based aid.

Gifts Honor Allen Roberts

In numbers reminiscent of the Todd
Smith °83 Fellowship, contributions to
the Allen Schanck Roberts ’85 Scholar-
ship Fund are steadily coming in. More
than 130 memorial gifts totaling more
than $51,000 have been given by family
and friends to a fund honoring Roberts,
who died in May 1993 of heart failure.

The scholarship will provide need-
based assistance to undergraduates for
study or internships abroad. Although
open to all majors, preference will be
given to students with a demonstrated
interest in journalism and achievement
in foreign languages. Consideration will
also be given to the qualities that distin-
guished Roberts: curiosity, indepen-
dence of thought, and an ability to give
voice to the concerns of people of
diverse backgrounds.

Roberts was a business reporter for
The Virginian-Pilot and Ledger-Star, the
Dayton Daily News, and the Beaumont
Enterprise. At the time of his death, he
Was Covering the ocean shipping field as
4 reporter for Zhe Journal of Commerce in
New York City.

The first Roberts Scholarship is
“xpected to be awarded next spring and
Will be administered by the University’s
foreign Studies advisor. “This scholar-
ship meets a strong and completely
“uMMet need within our foreign study

Program,” says John W. Elrod, dean of
the college. “

ble for de
abroad who

lt will surely make possi-
serving students to study
otherwise could not do so.”

 

Presidential Search:
And Then There Were 20

The presidential advisory search
committee, chaired by William J. Watt,
former dean of the college and professor
emeritus of chemistry, has narrowed a
list of more than 130 nominations down
to 20 using criteria provided by the
trustee presidential selection commit-
tee. Additional screening will reduce the
list to 10 or fewer by November, at
which time the trustee selection com-
mittee will begin its work. Rector A.
Stevens Miles Jr. ’51 expects to have a
recommendation for the full Board of
‘Trustees at its February 1995 meeting.

Cadaver Campaign Gift
No Longer a Secret

A $100,000 gift by the Cadaver
Society will create a permanent scholar-
ship in the secret society's name. Under
the terms of the agreement, once every
four years on
Alumni Week-
end, the Society
will rank a short
list of candidates
in order of pref-
erence based on

 

biographical
information pro-
vided by the admissions office. The
Society shall subsequently rank the can-
didates in order and return the names
and biographical information on the very
same day.

A portion of the gift will also act as
matching funds against new money
raised toward the R. Kent Frazier
Memorial Scholarship, which was estab-
lished in 1981 in memory of the 1961
alumnus and Cadaver member. Cadaver
has also released names of deceased
alumni who were members of the orga-
nization, including Sam Bendheim III
"57, Frazier, William D. Suggs III ’64,
and Leon B. Himes ’69.

Over the years, Cadaver has given
more than $200,000 to the University,
including a $100,000 gift to the fraterni-
ty renaissance program announced in
1991 in trademark Society fashion, with
a dead-of-night visit to campus.

10

   

ove

<2g,3

7 Ota t 7AM

pet

- a

—- ar
ads

4

me \ le.

 

these Annual Fund stakwarts—front row (1-r): Annual Fund director Peter Cronin "84, ch
man Alan Tomlin ’69, Van Pate ’71, Charlie Treadgold ’49, Al Fleishman °41, Jay Cook
Second row: Josh Levinson °94, John Atkins ’87, Randy Ellis ’86, Millard Fretland 3
Garnett Wilbourn °93, Teresa Williams °93, Ashley Harper ’93, George Gray "50L,
Warms °42. Third row: Atwell Dugger ’50 and wife Judy, Rob Mish ’76, Julie Snowden D
89, Parker Smith ’53, Esther Munger, Dallas Hagewood ’90, Frank Santora, Drake
‘71. Fourth row: Charlotte McCutcheon, Opie Pollard ’54, ’57L, Chad Meyer ’91, Ann
Fund associate Maureen Levey ’93, Judy Santora, Andy McCutcheon ’48, Ted McKeldin“
Vaughan Gibson ’91L, Jim Pike °95L, Jimmy Kull °94, Joe Matthews
Klenk ’54L, Wiley Wright °54, Chris Wolf ’80L, John Wolf 69, ’°72L, Jay Turner™
Howard Packett '58, Jack Bovay ’79, Peter Keefe 78, Bob Cross ’54. Sixth row: Steve E
‘74L, assistant Annual Fund director Leslie Rowan, Connie Horne, Charlie Tomm 68, 75
Don McFall 64, Walter Godlewski °93L, Dick Laskey ’57, Garth Schulz 88, Bob Powell
‘67L., Alan Ragan ’89L, Sidney Simmons ’80, J.R.Sult ’81, Leyburn Mosby ’62, “65L, I
Cleghorn '84, John Flippen ’93, Boyd Leyburn ’52, Pete Straub ’61, ’64L. Seventh romt
Russell ’57, Read Folline ’93, Tad Renner ’85, Ross Singletary ’89, and Fray McCormick

U.S. News Survey: W&L
Number 15 with a Bullet

Washington and Lee jumped from
20th to 15th overall among 169 national
liberal arts colleges and universities as
measured by U.S. News © World Report.
Leading contributors to W&L’s jump
were an improvement in the Univer-
sity’s graduation rate, a slight improve-
ment in alumni giving percentage and a
very large improvement (from 11 to 1) in
a ranking called faculty resources, which
combines student-faculty ratio, salary
average, class size, and percentage of
doctoral degrees.

In the best value evaluation, W&L is
again first in the nation in sticker price
versus quality. In the most efficient cat-
egory, which measures ratings relative to

Class Act: A record turnout for Class Agents Weekend Sept. 9 and 10 in Lexington ined,

       
   
    
    
    
   
  
 
    

‘68. Fifth row: D

the dollars spent per student, W&L‘
ranked 10th in the nation.

U.S. News surveys 1,400 accredit
four-year colleges and universities
arrive at its rankings. Reputational ram
ings by peer institutions are combin
with educational data provided by €a
college including the following statis
(with W&L’s ranking in parenthes
student selectivity (9), faculty reso
(1), financial resources (54), graduat
rate (24), and alumni satisfaction (40

Turning to Sports ..-

In U.S. News football action, !
ranked W&L toppled No. 8 David
9-3, for its first win of the season ©
Will this have any effect on next Y&
rankings? Watch the polls.

ad

9 General

gill Hoffman's Lucky 13th

William Hoffman ‘53 has just pub-
lished his 13th work of fiction, Fo//ow
Me Home: Srories (Louisiana State
$22.95). The book’s 11

tales are set in

University Press,

Virginia and
West Virginia
and reveal or-
dinary people (a
farmer, a maid,
an elderly minis-
ter, a disabled
vet) rising above
“life’s large and

 

small defeats”
through deep in-
ner strength. Hoffman’s output over 39
years includes 10 novels and two previ-
ous collections. That’s practically one
for every resident of Hoffman’s home,
Charlotte Court House, Va. (pop. 566).

Having Fun on the Job

Fun is practically in the description
of Michelle Lee Richardson’s new posi-
tion—that of student activities planner
at W&L. Her duties include planning
and implementing a comprehensive pro-
gram of social,
cultural, and
recreational
activities for
members of the
W&L communi-
ty. Richardson
received her
master of educa-
tion in student

 

personnel and
counseling and
Psychological services from Springfield
College. The position of “Dean of Fun”
was Created to expand the sometimes
limited social o
Virginia:
toes.”

ptions available in rural
“I’m not here to step on any
Richardson told The Ring-tum Phi.

 —_—

 

 

-R.E. Lee Planted Here

Mrs. Paul W. Mengel, restoration
chairman for the Garden Club of
Virginia, congratulates President
Wilson on the dedication of the Lee
Garden Sept. 11. The 19th-century-
style garden was planted in 1992
and 1993 and is on the site of a por-
tion of General Lee’s original site.
Proceeds from Historic Garden
Week made the restoration possible.

 

 

 

 

 

A Window into History

Undaunted by his recent illness,
retired professor Charles W. ‘Turner
has completed his 31st book, The
Allen Family Letters, to be published
in hardcover shortly. ‘The six Am-
herst County (Va.) brothers fought
for the confederacy while struggling
to keep their homeplace running,
and their letters reveal the hard-
ships of war, the brutality of battle,
“even their schemes to earn a little
cash in quieter times,” according to
the Rockbridge Publishing Co.
release. Details: (800) 473-3943.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

George, Charlie—Let’s Do Lunch

Not only is Roger Mudd ’50 coming to campus to teach spring term, he’ll
be hosting a nightly one-hour show, “History Alive,” on A&E’s new History
Channel in 1995. Guess there’s something to be said for the W&L network.

 

11

 

 

 

Without

In a candid interview, President John Wilson

Kear Or

talks about the values that shaped his tenure

Havor

 

By Robert Mottley ’64

  
 
  
 
 

university education is a con-
versation,” says John Wilson.
“You could say I have spent
my career trying my best to
assist in contriving the
conditions where the
level of the conversa-
tion can rise. Because it can’t be
uneven. You can get the best faculty in
the world but if you have dull students,
the conversation will be dull and the
faculty will be disenchanted with the
whole process.”

A conversation with John Wilson 7s a
university education. In an age when

66

many of his counterparts seem to have
felt a loss of focus, or even of nerve, in
these facts-in-your-face ’90s; when
many urban campuses are war zones
where tenured fiefdoms clash by day
and partisan lecturers roil special-inter-
est factions at night; when otherwise
articulate Ph.Ds are reduced to shouting
at colleagues in raucous departmental

12

meetings, and only the bravest chancel-
lor will summon an entire faculty to dis-
cuss substantive issues, Washington and
Lee’s impassioned president is one aca-
demic leader who will go red in the face
when confronted with injustice or imbe-
cility.

John Wilson, you see, tells it straight.
He speaks his mind in plain English,
not academese, without the soothing
presence of a spin doctor. Given the
sniping and incivility rampant around
the country today, such attitudes are
defensible because a president does
wear his college’s label. “I’m constantly
sensitive to the fact that I do represent
Washington and Lee University,” he
says, “and that means in part that I have
an obligation to do whatever I can do to
keep the place open to different points
of view and not seem to close it down by
articulating one point of view—my
own—as inevitably it would be repre-
sented as the institution’s.”

   
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
    
 
   
   
 

Wilson may take too personally
occasional critical letter that crosse
desk, and he may irritate some bee
of his tendency to micromanage, bu
hands-on drive and acumen a
increasingly short supply among unl
sity leaders, and he is the least
departing duck imaginable.
Wilson, in short, is an anomaly.

A native of Lapeer, Mich.,
was student body president of Lé
High School and senior class pres!
at Michigan State. (He was also an
emic All American and a member 0
school’s 1952 national champion
football team.) “In both cases, I hi
any interest in student politics at all,
explains. Instead, he ran at the behe
friends who were less than enché
with the alternative. “Why don't
run,” they told him, “and we'll sup
you.” |
At Michigan State in partie
“Being thrust into a position of le

 

 

ship implied that they had trust in me,”
he recalls. “They assumed that I would
not abuse their trust, that I’d represent
them reasonably well, and that I had a
certain credibility with the administra-
tion. But I wasn’t a professional campus
politician. | think leadership comes in so
many sizes and shapes.”

Wilson received his B.A. degree in
history from Michigan State, attended
Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar
("I said at the time, what on God’s
seen earth did you do to deserve this?”)
eu then earned a Ph.D from Michigan
State (like his master’s, in English litera-
ture). Wilson has never forgotten Nevill
Coghill, his English tutor at Exeter
College, Oxford, who, in addition to
reaching directed productions of
Shakespeare’s plays in London’s West
End and translated The Canterbury Tales
for Penguin Books.
ay Was a wonderful human being,”
Vilson Says. “We would sit together dis-

ee

cussing Chaucer, and he would say,
what do you know about the 14th centu-
ry wine trade? And I'd say well, sir,
nothing to speak of. And he would start
talking about the wine trade and
Chaucer’s concern about dilution, about
watering the wine, and explained that
his father was a vintner, and so on. And
I’d go reeling out of there an hour later.
This was all in explication of one-half of
a line in The Canterbury Tales and |
remember once leaning against a wall
outside saying, I don’t know whether
I’ve learned anything of value, but if 4e
thinks it’s valuable, if this wonderful,
zestful, full-of-life man thinks this is
important, then I know it’s important.”
Wilson has a simple, idealistic view of
what higher education should be.
“These four years are a precious gift to
young people,” he says, “to learn some-
thing about the life of the mind, to try to
get close to the notion of contempla-
tion.” He recalls a discussion with Rev.

 

 

 

Edward A. Malloy, president of Notre
Dame University, who gave the opening

convocation speech in 1991. “I knew he
was going to talk about service to the
community—encouraging students to
get involved in assisting the disadvan-
taged and the homeless—and I said, you
know I don’t agree with that without
qualification,” he recalls. “I believe an
occasional excursion to discover another
part of the world—poverty, despair, the
problems of inner-city people—can be a
very effective educational and human
experience and also can lead to virtue.
But not if the experience comes at the
sacrifice of the contemplative side of
university life, at the expense of intel-
lectual cultivation or of the opportunity
to sit quietly and argue about ideas with
others. That opportunity, for most of
us, can Only come once in life.

“I’ve been driven more and more
over the years to the definition of a uni-
versity as a fellows’ garden,” he adds.

13

“r

Che walls of my ideal university are
pretty high, and they keep the world at
bay a bit. Students are going to go out
often enough and Peter Jennings or Dan
Rather will be coming in over the air-
waves. But for the most part it repre-
sents four years to ask important ques-
tions. What is Macbeth about? Why are
we still reading this play 400 years later?

 

canon warrants examination and change
from time to time. ‘The fact that women
of the 19th century, the George Eliots,
had to adopt male names in order to
make their way into the canon, to be
accepted as serious artists, reveals that
there’s been a strong cultural bias or
predisposition. Having said that, | return
to where I began. And that is to say that

eT”

 

 

 

 

At home in Lee House: Wife Anne “has always secured a suspension of disbelief from my

adversaries,” John observes: “ ‘Well, if she likes him,’ they say, ‘he can’t be that bad.’ ”

Why do we care about a medieval
Scottish king? It is important to try to
get at the truth of that play or any num-
ber of others, and to discover why it is
still relevant for us.”

He continues: “The process of trying
to educate yourself has to begin in your
own culture. I think there are signs all
over the history of Western civilization
of significant omissions, and surely the

14

it is still very important to master the
giant figures in our received culture.
And then you have the lenses through
which to look more clearly at other cul-
tures and other histories.”

While he enjoys meeting alumni and
talking about the University—Wilson
has visited almost all of Washington and
Lee’s 82 alumni chapters during his 12
years as president—Wilson is happiest

 
    

in academic surroundings. He recoun
“a period of curious experience” all
assistant to Thomas Hamilton, Presiden,
of the State University of New York Sys. 7
tem, from 1959 to 1963. “There we Were

in Albany in a private residence turned

into a headquarters building for the
State University of New York, with 50.
campuses across the state, but no sty.
dents and no faculty around—jug,

administrative officers,” he recalls, “And

  

I was appalled at the sterile environ.
ment that I had become part of. This
wasn’t the university, not without faeyl.
ty and students and libraries, hard acad.
emic work and intellectual conflicts ang
string quartets—all of that. I was nop
very happy.” When Hamilton packed
his bags for Hawaii, Wilson returned tg
Michigan State to complete his disserta-
tion on Shakespeare. “I learned by
omission in those four years what the

é
es

real life of an institution is, and what it
consists of.” . 2
John Wilson’s nomination to be presi
dent of Washington and Lee came asa _
great surprise to him. “I was never told
I’d been nominated,” he recalls. “J
never applied, I never sent a curriculum
vitae. | never said, yes, I’d like to be
considered.” Wilson was invited to
Lexington in June of 1982 to meet with
the trustee selection committee. “1
came down the Colonnade that June ©
day and while I knew about the reputa=
tion of Washington and Lee I didnt
even know where Lewis Hall was. I met
with the committee for a day and had —
dinner that evening and went home
Three weeks later I was invited to be”

 
 
   

Days,

president.” :

His decision was somewhat longet in
coming, after much consultation with”
his wife, Anne, and his family—we
come back to that later—but “I had”
come to realize that I was an undergrad-
uate person,” Wilson says. “I had 4 fi
and satisfying career at VPI [where,
vice president and provost, he ovetsé

  
   
   
   
  

graduate programs and profession
schools and the like] and I have mu
respect for research and advanced We
But I discovered that my heart real
was in those four undergraduate ye ,
And I’m frankly an elitist.”

He concedes that this may sou®

-

odd,

 

coming from a lower middle class

upper lower class background (“wher-
a: my father fic’) and a people’s uni-
versity such as Michigan State, but
Wilson subscribes to the Jeffersonian
notion of the good society—a society in
which a natural aristocracy arises out of
ralent, regardless of socioeconomic con-
ditions. “When | looked at Washington
and Lee, | saw a first-rate undergraduate
institution with its fine law school to be
sure—with a potential to participate in
that Jeffersonian notion.” He pauses.
“Maybe that’s not a popular notion
these days, but it is still important to my
sense of what America truly should
stand for.”

Ir’s no secret that a number of alumni
have very strong feelings about John
Wilson and his tenure at W&L.
Partisans say that he has contributed to
an elevation in the University’s reputa-
tion while detractors assert that changes
made in Lexington during his adminis-
tration have altered their beloved a/ma
mater in negative ways. Few of his critics
seem to talk much with serious-minded
teenagers contemplating the choice of a
college. If they did, they might come
away shaken, aware that what has hap-
pened at W&L, whether you call it a
revolution or a metamorphosis, occurred
at the right time.

All that has been said above about
coeducation happened 10 years ago. In
that decade, significant change has per-
meated every fiber of the University.
Fair-minded alumni who have returned
to Lexington find a more relaxed cama-
raderie on campus; some may even feel
acute twinges of envy. Students today
marvel that there was ever any extended
discussion of the issue: “What was the
big fear about women?” asks one sopho-
more. “None of us understand why
there was such hue and cry.” It’s easy to
forget, however, that a mere decade ago
the emotional price was much higher in
«complex drama of Shakespearean pro-
Portions that the Bard himself might
have called The Coming of Women, or The
Past Recanted

“During my interview the trustees
‘imply asked what my attitude about
©o€ducation was,” Wilson recalls. “I had
been the president of a single-sex col-

i

lege [Wells College, a 500-student liber-
al arts college for women in Aurora,
N.Y.], I'd read every blue ribbon
report—Bowdoin, Princeton, Williams—
and knew all the rhetoric and the argu-
ments very well.” Given that the band-
wagon had left some years before, when
Washington and Lee twice contemplat-
ed, but passed, on the coeducation
question, the real task, as Wilson saw it,
was to determine to what extent remain-
ing single-sex would impact the chances
of improving the overall quality of the
institution.

Following his election as president in
August 1982, Wilson met with faculty
members individually in the months
prior to coming into residence the fol-
lowing January. He would always end
these conversations by asking, “What
one thing would you do to make this
place better?” ‘Time and again, from
alumni and non-alumni faculty alike,
the answer was, “We’ve got to face up to
coeducation.” Citing the evidence from
declining admissions qualifications, and
faculty testimony about a decline in the
quality of classroom conversations,
Wilson put the question before his staff
at a Skylark mountain retreat in the
summer of 1983. From there, Wilson
harvested these opinions and took them
before the Board of ‘Trustees, which in
February 1984, began a Board-directed,
comprehensive study of what coeduca-
tion would mean to W&L.

Before a decision had ever been
reached, Wilson was out on the road,
making the rounds of alumni meetings
with Farris Hotchkiss, vice president of
university relations at W&L, “and we
really saw that this was a very emotional
issue.” ‘I'wo alumni on opposite sides of
the question nearly came to blows at the
Congressional Country Club in Wash-
ington, D.C., and in Shreveport, La.,
“Everyone was very courtly to me—‘An
honor to meet you, President Wilson,’”
he recalls, “and then they pounced on
Farris: ‘What the hell is going on?”

Some of that feeling spilled over onto
the campus itself, where placards pro-
claimed BETTER DEAD THAN COED and
bunting stenciled with NO MARTHAS was
draped around Old George atop Wash-
ington Hall. Nevertheless, on July 14,

1984—or “Bastille Day,” as Wilson
remembers it—the trustees voted to
coeducate the University commencing
in the fall of 1985. In the press confer-
ence that followed, one of the dis-
senters, the Hon. A. Christian Compton
"50, °53L, “had the style and character to
say frankly, ‘I am not in favor of this
change in policy of the University,’”
Wilson recalls, and then promised to
throw his full support behind it.

“I knew there were emotional posi-
tions out there, but we take an oath
when we become a member of this
Board and that is that we will act in the
interests of the institution ‘without fear
or favor,” Wilson says. “I had a strong
Board, of course, and its members took
that oath seriously.”

He adds with a smile: “I think a lot of
the alumni then discovered they had
daughters.”

oeducation tends to
overshadow Wilson’s
other accomplishments
at W&L. He takes satis-
faction in a superb
record of academic
appointments, com-
mencing with John
Elrod, a philosophy professor at lowa
State who became dean of the college in
August 1984. “John Elrod told me that
before he accepted the deanship here,
he talked to people at VPI and I didn’t
know this,” says Wilson. “What people
told him there was, if you did a very
good job, you would flourish under
Wilson. But if you didn’t, you’d be
removed.” He laughs. “I’ve had a better
batting average with people here than
I’ve ever had before. I’ve had a good
and solid—rare, even—opportunity to
bring good people here and I’m grateful
for that. I leave behind some truly out-
standing people.”

‘There have been other peaks: the
fraternity renaissance program, the
launching of new departments, the 12-
to-1 student-teacher ratio in the law
school that is among the best in the
nation. And there’s no greater champion
of the University’s physical attributes
than John Wilson. A lifelong patron of
theater and music, he is particularly

15

pleased with the Lenfest Center for the
Performing Arts. “All of that is impor-
tant,” he says, “but our physical plant
and our curriculum would mean nothing

without our students. I love being with
them. It’s a pleasure to attend games,
lectures, concerts.” He and Anne are
sometimes the only non-students pres-
ent at the events they attend.

John Wilson’s successor will inherit a
vibrant university that is arguably in the
best academic, physical, and financial
condition in its 245-year history. Look
no further than freshman statistics for
1994-95: 3,620 applications for 430
openings, average SAT scores of 1272
(610 verbal and 662 in mathematics), 60
percent men and 40 percent women,
drawn equally from the 91st percentile
of their high school classes. ‘The com-
pletion of the new science center in
1997 will leave all of W&L’s teaching
facilities well poised for the changes and
challenges of the new millennium. And
Wilson’s retirement next June coincides
with the conclusion of the largest capital
campaign in University history, On the
Shoulders of Giants, which has raised

 

$112 million toward its $127 million
goal—a vote of confidence from alumni
about the future of their beloved W&L.

Measures

ot Success

Still, Wilson has been subjected to a
barrage of flak that has only recently
diminished, including misplaced cries of
political correctness. “Political correct-
ness has come to mean a set of attitudes,
mainly derived from the liberal percep-
tion of society, that are automatic and
rote and not thoughtful, that tend to
absolve the individual from responsibili-
ty and for the most part trace with
earnestness and conviction current prob-
lems to social defects,” Wilson says.
Rather than addressing “old-fashioned
ideas,” such as the concept of sin or
individual responsibility, “this is accom-
panied by a supersensitive view about
hurt and humiliation so that everybody’s
a victim, no one’s responsible, and if you
extend this P.C. outlook to the extremes
then you reach the absurd or the cruel.
All of that sets the stage for the indict-
ment of the liberal perspective by fin-
ger-pointing at some of its most outra-
geous manifestations.”

Political correctness is not Wilson’s
style—nor Washington and Lee’s, for
that matter. “An institution should cre-
ate an environment of absolute neutrali-
ty,” he says. “It ought to welcome all
kinds of divergent opinion on both the
left and the right.”

hen John W
met his bride-te
Anne Veronica
mans, in 1956, she
living with her m
in a cottage beside
course near a toy
Berkshire, England. “John was pla
golf with a friend of mine,” she re
“and asked the friend if he could p
me. ‘She won’t have anything to do:
you,’ he was told. He persisted.”
Seems John’s instincts were cor
The couple married a year later.
Anne left England “with a pretty
slate,” as she puts it. “I knew
would keep in touch with my fg
but also that I was starting a new
John didn’t know what he wanted
at first... or as he told my fathe
had no immediate prospects.’
“We certainly didn’t think tha
would be a college administrator.” _
The Wilsons have four chil
three sons and a daughter, all of y
are grown now. When Wilson t ~
president of Wells College, he w
and Anne, then 34, had to manag
staff of a large Greek Revival
and look after the social calendar
College in addition to raising four

  

“She came, in my view, to do
fully and with such grace,”
hen the Wilsons moved

children.
chat beautl
John says: but w j
S, Blacksburg, Va., “we retreated into

rivate life, we thought, for good.”

Then the W&L Board of ‘Trustees
called—and John Wilson put the matter
before his family. “Anne said, “This is
your decision, and whatever you decide,
| will support you,’ and that’s wonder-
fully old-fashioned,” John recalls. “She
is a lovely person and has always
secured a suspension of disbelief from
my adversaries: ‘Well, if she likes him,’
they say, ‘he can’t be “lat bad.’”

Anne knows how much the backlash
from the coeducation decision hurt her
husband. “Those were difficult days,”
she says, “and the past year has not
been easy. John does not delegate
much. He worries more than he should.
Ir’s hard to change his ways.”

The Wilsons use the Lee House as
two dwellings, with formal rooms for
public duties and a private sector for
themselves. When the need for privacy
is greater, they spend time at a family
home in Rockbridge County. Neither
Anne nor John seems quite sure where
they will move after his retirement.

“I’m looking forward to having time

for volunteer work, for hiking, and defi-
nitely for biking,” she says. “I want a
good riding bike for my 60th birthday.”
John laughs when told that: “I think she
has one in mind for me as well.”

“Princely O'Neill to our aid is advancing,
with many a chieftain and warrior clan...”
—*“O’Donnell Abu,” an Irish pub song

Wilson has planned one project for
his retirement that he has put off for
years: a historical novel about Irishman
Hugh O’Neill (1540-1616) the second
earl of Tyrone. He is drawn to the
drama of the story, of how O’Neill
served with the English against the
rebel Gerald Fitzgerald, but then turned
against the English when they refused
to restore ancestral lands. O’Neill pre-
vailed until finally beaten by Lord
Mountjoy, then left Ireland for Flanders
with Rory O’Donnell, earl of ‘T'yrconnel,
in the “Flight of the Earls.” “He died in
Rome, a pensioner of the Pope,” Wilson
says. “His life is a study in moral
ambivalence.”

Beyond that, Wilson has no immedi-
ate plans, although he has thought fur-
ther down the road. A closet maestro, his
favorite classical work is Mahler’s

Symphony No. 2, subtitled the “Resur-
rection” symphony. “I’ve asked Anne to
play the finale of the ‘Resurrection’ at
my funeral,” Wilson says in mock seri-
ousness. “That’s all I want done—no
eulogies, no scripture readings, nothing
verbal. Wouldn’t that be wonderfully
pretentious?”

The finale to Mahler’s Symphony No.
2 lasts about 33 minutes, and is scored
for strings, woodwinds, 10 horns, eight
trumpets, two sets of tympani, five per-
cussion players, chorus, two vocal
soloists, and an organ. The finale begins
with spine-tingling fanfares and churn-
ing themes, spatially planned to suggest
heaven and earth. The graves of the
dead open, and brass and percussion
herald a march of the newly-risen dead
to judgment. It is not a judgment of fire
and brimstone, but a chorale in the end
that is worth quoting:

“You will rise again, after a short
repose ... all that you’ve yearned for, all
that you loved and fought for, is yours
... prepare to live ... on wings that I
have won, I shall soar aloft to that light
which no mortal has penetrated. I shall
die so that I may live.”

At the very least, it will zo¢ be a polit-
ically correct service. @

 

18

Lewis Powell came to
Washington and Lee with
dreams of playing baseball.
He didn’t make the team,
but it wasn't long before
the Justice was a big man
on campus, as this excerpt

from his Mey Teel dt a tL

<> UW E

By

 

John C.

Jeffries Jr.

 

In September 1925, a few
weeks before Lewis Powell
Jr.’s 18th birthday, a bus
deposited him on the main

 

street of Lexington. He had
taken the Chesapeake &
Ohio Railroad westward
from Richmond, through the
Blue Ridge Mountains at
Rockfish Gap, and into the
Shenandoah Valley. He left
the train at Staunton and
traveled by bus the last 30
miles up the valley to Lex-
ington.

Powell was “frightened to
death” of his first extended
stay away from home.
His parents arranged
for him to live
with Dr. Rob-

ert Glasgow,

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

the widow-
er uncle of
a Gwath-

house—Phi Kappa Sigma.
After two years with Dr.
Glasgow, Powell moved into
the Phi Kappa Sigma house,
where the principal activities
were drinking, carousing,
and sneaking young ladies
past the housemother. As
Powell’s grades suffered in
this environment, he moved
after one year to a basement
apartment in the home of
Miss Annie Jo White, a fiery,
outspoken, white-haired
lady,” locally
famous as the originator of

“maiden

the Fancy Dress Ball, an
annual costume extravaganza
that had become the South’s
premier collegiate social
event. She lived at the foot
of College Hill in one of a
row of houses facing upward
toward the Colonnade.

By the time he moved to

study law. “I was interested
in history,” he recalls, “and it
seemed clear to me that sol-
diers and lawyers made most
of the history.” Despite his
youthful dreams, Powell
“entertained no ambition for
a military career, and so for
me the only choice was the
law.” The choice seemed
almost inevitable. Powell
was a lawyerly young man—
remembered by contempo-
raries as “bespectacled,
sedate, professorial,” with an
air of quiet authority. At fra-
ternity meetings, he would
wait until everyone else had
spoken, then summarize the
discussion, and propose a
decision. He spoke so softly
that his fraternity brothers
had to strain to hear and so
slowly that they sometimes
“had the urge to grab him

 

    
   

mey cousin

who, like
almost every-

one else in
Lexington, rented
rooms to college stu-
dents. Before he could
find Dr. Glasgow’s, Powell
was met by fraternity men
who said he had been recom-
mended by people in Rich-
mond and invited him to
meet their brothers. The
dazed freshman agreed and
did not reach his lodging
until late that night. While
fraternities could pledge a
student from the moment he
first set foot on campus,
Powell was not the sort to

This article is adapted from
Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr.,
by John C. Jeffries Jr. (Charles
Scribner S Sons: $3 0).

make snap decisions. After a
few days, he pledged a rival
group with a beautiful new

 

Miss Annie Jo’s, Powell was
studying law. His undergrad-
uate major was commerce, a
practical curriculum that he
mastered without undue
effort. There is no sign of a
grand intellectual awakening
in the undergraduate, nor
did Powell aim at any acade-
mic experience beyond good
grades. His goal was law
school, and by counting
some law classes toward his
undergraduate degree, he
could complete both pro-
grams in six years. Conse-
quently, in June 1929, when
he was awarded a B.S. magna
cum laude from the School of
Commerce and Administra-
tion, he had already complet-
ed one year of law school.
Powell always planned to

Ost

and try to shake the words
out of his mouth.” Already
he had developed a tech-
nique for controlling a meet-
ing: Wait until everyone else
has spoken, incorporate their
views, then propose a deci-
sion. No one felt insulted or
overridden when Powell got
his way.

Powell became president
of his fraternity and a leader
in almost every aspect of col-
lege life. He was managing
editor of The Ring-tum Phi,
and worked on the staff of
the Ca/yx. He was one of 14
members of his class elected
to Phi Beta Kappa, and was
also chosen for “the Circle,”
officially known as Omicron
Delta Kappa, a national lead-
ership fraternity begun at

19

W&L. He received the
Algernon Sidney Sullivan
Medallion for the student
“who excels in high ideals of
living, and in spiritual quali-
ties, and in generous and dis-
interested service to others.”
And along the way, he was
tapped for a succession of
exclusive clubs—the White
Friars, the “13” Club, and
the Sigma society for seniors.

Even in athletics, Powell
managed to make a contribu-
tion, though not of the sort
he intended. His baseball
ambitions collapsed when a
left-hander from Washing-
ton, D.C., beat him out for
first base. He tried freshman
football, but spent three days
in the hospital after his first
tackle and was told he had
better quit. Powell’s forte
was not playing but recruit-
ing. Cap’n Dick Smith twice
sent him to Norfolk to see
Leigh Williams, then the
best high school athlete in
Virginia. Leigh’s father had
died, and his mother was
reluctant to see him go so far
away. Powell, who in his own

‘

words “always had a nice
way with older women,”
worked on Mrs. Williams.
He pledged to look out for
her son, guaranteed that
Leigh would be asked to join
Phi Kappa Sigma, and even
agreed to room with him so
that the new recruit could be
assured of wholesome influ-
ences and social acceptance.
Eventually, the prestige of
the rooming situation ran the
other way, as Williams let-
tered in all four sports and
became a local legend.

With or without Leigh
Williams, Powell was the
proverbial “big man on cam-
pus.” Some years earlier a
slightly disaffected student
described the formula for
social success at Washington

20

and Lee. A “BMOC” must
“have a natural gift for con-
formity ... combine in the
proper proportion deference
and pride, and—this was
sometimes the hard part—
have brains enough to pass
his work with a minimum of
study.” Powell did much
better than pass, but other-
wise the description seems
apt. He had the natural gift
for conformity and was able

to combine deference to
authority and pride in his
own performance in propor-
tions so finely balanced that
everyone liked and admired
him. His status was back-
handedly recognized by the
inclusion in a Campus news-
paper spoof of a poem enti-
tled “Great God Louie.”

In his fifth year, Powell
was president of the student

body. He was urged to run as
a senior but stepped aside in
favor of George Lanier, a
close friend who was leaving
after four years and would
not have another chance.
‘The next year, Powell ran
unopposed, polled the high-
est number of votes then on
record, and served his term
while taking courses as a sec-
ond-year law student.

As student body presi-

 

dent, Powell was responsible
for Washington and Lee’s
honor system and for a vari-
ety of other duties. His chief
success, however, was entire-
Although
Prohibition had been in force

ly unofficial.

in Virginia since 1916 and
was now the law of the land,
W&L was anything but dry.
Every Thursday night about
10 o'clock, the local bootleg-

  
    
  
  
  
   
   
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
   
  

ger pulled up behind the f
Kap house to transact }
business. Powell never p.
took. He had promig
Louis Sr. that so long as
remained in school,
would not drink. Since
father was paying the bij
the demand seemed fo ¢
son “eminently reasonah
And there was the additio
incentive of a $1,000 re
if he kept the faith. Poy
did so, making him, after
sophomore year, the or
member of his fraternity y
did not imbibe. |

One night the watch
at Sweet Briar Colle
caught two W&L boys y
white lightning in the
ble seat of their roadste
Although their cargo h
been requested by Swe
Briar students, they we
gentlemen enough not
implicate the young ladi
In consequence, they we
accused of corrupting t
innocent, and Sweet B
president Meta Glass ¢
creed Washington and
off-limits to Sweet B
women for the remainder
the year. The ban includ
Fancy Dress Ball. Answe
the distress of his cé
stituents (and their Swe
Briar girlfriends), Powell ¢
ralled two other students
moral support and went
see Sweet Briar dean Em
Helen Dutton, who in @
course ushered them intot
presence of President Glas

Though he could la
recall no more sophisticat
strategy than simply begg
for mercy, the awful ed
was lifted after a face-saVi
vote by the Sweet Briar $
dents to “take the respor
bility for the conduct of
dates while on the Swé
Briar campus.” Powell E
came a campus hero. #

On page 30 of John C. Jeffries Jr.’s superb new biography, Lewis F. Powell Jr., we
are taken into the home of Annie Jo White, a grand maiden lady of Lexington in the
late 1920s. Powell, a student at Washington and Lee, is there to rent a room. He is
looking at a framed Miley photograph of Robert E. Lee seated on ‘Traveller and
holding a little girl. ‘The child, he realizes, is Annie Jo.

Decades later, Justice Powell was still fascinated by the presence of the past in
that room. Annie Jo knew Lee. Powell happened to tell me about it around the time
of his retirement from the Supreme Court in 1987, well over a century after Lee’s
death. He knew I would be interested because I was a kid growing up a few doors
from Annie Jo when he was her roomer.

Having known her and the tall student who walked up bee hill from our row of
houses to the law school every day, I became somewhat obsessed with my own sud-
den awareness of a long ago that kept hanging around. I wrote several times about
the past’s persistence in our lives. Somebody told me that William Faulkner was
intrigued by the subject. ‘The approximate quotation passed on to me was: “Ihe past
isn’t over. It isn’t even past.”

I used that in my work several times but now, alas, history has helped me get it
right. Jeffries on page 30 refers to my “paraphrase” and in the book’s notes cites
Faulkner’s Reguiem for a Nun with a page eo So now I know the correct quote:
“The past is never dead. It’s not even past.”

But I must get on to more of the big swatch of history that Lewis Powell repre-
sents. A former clerk for the Justice, Powell is a professor at the University of Virginia
School of Law. He writes with unpretentious authority and turns out to be a natural
storyteller besides.

=  OwWwEEIZ. Oni

a Oe. ae ee en

Lexington is a star of the story. There, at Annie Jo’s, Powell was in “The Hollow,”
, looking up to the chapel where both Lee and ‘Traveller rested. His neighbors includ-
- ed two law professors (including my father); Gleason Bean, a Stonewall Jackson his-
torian; and Leila Nance Moffatt, a leading Daughter of the Confederacy who became
the subject of a poem by English professor Larry Watkin, who later moved to
Hollywood: “Leila Nance Moffatt/ Sat on a toffet/ Praising the UDC/ So busy
thinkin’/ How stinkin’ was Lincoln/ She forgot about Robert E. Lee.”

Powell hoped to play baseball at W&L but got beat out, so he tried football and
was in the hospital for three days after his first tackle. He became a manager and
recruiter in athletics, managing editor of The Ring-tum Phi, \eader of dances, winner of
the annual medal for all-round excellence, student body president, and No. 1 law
graduate.

I was 3 to 5 years old when Powell was in our neighborhood; we kids and our par-
ents all liked this kind, polite, affable student. Jeffries found that Powell, dealing
with his contemporaries on campus, already knew how to “wait until everyone else
has spoken, incorporate their views, then propose a decision.”

This same man, in his early 60s, turned down nomination to the Supreme Court in
1969 and responded only to the prod of “duty” in 1971. As for Powell’s 15 years as a
justice, Jeffries writes of a court whose decisions “owed less to dogmas of the left or
the right than to a flexible search for justice, order, and decency in a changing world.
And this Court’s most characteristic voice, the one that proved most often decisive,
was that of its most reluctant member, Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. of Virginia.”

 

)

Reprinted with permission of the Richmond ‘Times-Dispatch.

21

G E N E R

June Collmer loved her job. As the
AIDS/HIV policy director and coordina-
tor for hospital epidemiology at the
University of Virginia Medical Center,
she enjoyed a great deal of autonomy
and flexibility, but her work was also
exhausting. “Looking to the future,”
she says, “I decided it was now or never
to make a change.”

OW oer be OC rile OM ed acorn)
found sleeping at her carrel.

For 30- PO Our uti:

students at W&L,

law is a second career—

and their first priority

PP ge .
-
x
ri % . .

ay ee ee a ae

It takes a lot of courage to make a

mid-life career change—to leave a per-
fectly successful business or thriving
medical practice; to uproot a family; to
decide that the job you had prepared for
in college and beyond was no longer ful-
filling; or just to say, hey, if I’m ever
going to try something different, it’s
now or never.

It takes an equal amount of faith to
jump into law school at the age of 35, or

 

45. They are small in number—the
average age of a W&L law student hy
still about 24.5—but for the handful of
older, second-career students attending
law school at Washington and Lee, life’s
experiences can count for a lot—once
you get over the initial hump of that
first semester.

BU Nome rong tt Wei (er ak ae AO
PO Maite titer econ La ake
have a lot to offer their younger ¢las*

-

mates. | t arri
feel understandably, a little intimidat-
ecl,

ed. Bt
ron anc

phere fo 7 ;
ge. The small classes, easily accessible
age. |

faculty, and respect and consideration
fo
com
healt
from a

The ones who are just arriving

it everyone agrees that Washing-
1 Lee provides an idyllic atmos-
+ students, regardless of their

r fellow students all contribute to the
patibility of the student body. Yet a
hy exchange of ideas can also come
group of students aged 21 to 46.

June Collmer holds the distinction of
being the senior member of the Class of
‘97 at the Washington and Lee School of
Law. She received a degree in fine arts
from Temple University, then earned a
graduate degree and taught the hearing
impaired for eight years in Massachu-
setts. In the summers, she ran mara-

“Looking to the future,
| decided it was now or never

to make a change.”

 

June Colimer, 46

thons and worked with Outward Bound.
| When she wanted something more
intellectually challenging, she went
back to school and received two more
degrees from the University of Virginia
and became a nurse practitioner. After
working for five years with children with
diabetes, she was appointed to the new
Position of HIV coordinator at UVa.
Where her responsibilities included
‘Mplementation of OSHA standards,
setting policies for patients and health-

 

care workers, heading all reports of HIV
patients at the UVa Medical Center, and
conducting patient/family educational
programs. Law school should be a piece
of cake after that job.

Classmate Cynthia Carnick, 46, fig-
ures she has the makings of a natural
lawyer: “I’ve spent the last 25 years
negotiating fights,” says the recently
divorced mother of six. Carnick’s gentle
and soft-spoken manner belies the
determination and self-discipline she
has garnered to make it through law
school as a single parent with a large
family. “I go to bed at 10 and get up at 3
a.m. to study until seven when I get the
children up for school,” she says. “With
all these kids, I hadn’t slept through the
night since 1972 anyway.”

Carnick received her undergraduate

“I get up at 3 and study—with
all these kids, | haven't slept

through the night since 1972.”

 

Cynthia Carnick, 46

degree in communication arts from St.
Mary’s (Indiana) and a master’s in
English from the University of New
Hampshire, and for years she did free-
lance graphic design work at home.
When she considered law schools, she
contacted former W&L law professor
Tom Shaffer, now at Notre Dame, to
get a handle on Washington and Lee.
“W&L is the last great small Southern
law school,” he told her—and it seems
to be a good fit for Carnick. “It is wel-

coming, but not unprofessional. It is
such a civilized environment—a sup-
portive faculty and students who are not
competing against each other.”

When Fay Hobbs, 40, began law
classes this fall, she worked hard to hide
the fact that she is married to a profes-
sor. It’s been her most difficult adjust-
ment—being a student and a faculty
wife. “Steve is 100 percent supportive,”
Fay says of her husband, family law pro-
fessor Steven Hobbs. Fay helped put
Steve through law school, and now he is
returning the favor.

Hobbs graduated from Hollins
College in 1983 with a B.A. in political
science and received her master’s in
social work in 1988 from Florida State.
The idea of law school had been rolling
around in her mind ever since she met a

“Being a test pilot requires a lot
of analysis and writing that is

also required in law school.”

 

Burks, 41

Don

W&L grad who was doing mediation.
“A light went on, and I saw a new career
goal,” she says. “A law degree and medi-
ation work would be an incredible way
to pull all my interests together.”

The mother of four children ages
seven to 14, Hobbs is used to juggling a
family and a busy career. Having just
stepped down from a demanding 55
hour-a-week job as a rehabilitation
counselor for the Department of Youth
and Family Services, she actually sees

23

more of her children now than she did
before. But that hasn’t made the adjust-
ment much easier; Hobbs may be home,
but she is studying hard to keep up.
“The younger students are more
assertive,” she observes. “They’re not
afraid of humiliation.”

With his close-cropped hair and slim,
erect posture, Don Burks, 41, looks the
part of a Navy aviator. Burks graduated
in 1975 from the Naval Academy and
spent 20 years in the Navy flying on and
off aircraft carriers and as a test pilot. In
choosing a new vocation for his post-
Navy career, he considered his interests
and strengths and came up with law as
the path he would pursue. “Being a test
pilot requires a lot of thinking, analysis,
and writing that is also required in law

“The younger students are

more assertive—they’re not

afraid of humiliation.”

 

school,” he says.

Burks chose Washington and Lee for
its reputation, close faculty/student rela-
tions, and the Lexington community.
He and his wife and seven-year-old
daughter have settled into one of
Lexington’s nice old houses within
walking distance of the elementary
school. Although he its just beginning his
law school experience, he says, “It’s
been a great four weeks.”

Another Naval Academy graduate,

24

 

Bill Crenshaw, 37, decided early on that
he would get totally involved in the law
school experience. Crenshaw joined
every student organization he could and
is now president of his second-year
class. And if all that wasn’t enough to
keep him busy, six weeks before he em-
barked on law school, Crenshaw’s wife,
Karen, gave birth to twins. “I didn’t see
much of them that first year,” he admits.
“I practically lived in Lewis Hall while
my wife and babies were at home.”
Crenshaw served for 14 years in the
Marine Corps and is now a major in the
reserves. A shrewd investor, he has used
his mutual funds, savings, and other
investments to finance law school and
hopes to finish his three years debt-free.
Law school, he feels, is a good transition
between military and civilian life. “You

“| own stocks and have real
estate, and the law isn’t always

written for real experiences.”

 

Crenshaw, 37

are cloistered in the military,” Crenshaw
says. I didn’t want to change my way of
thinking, but I was ready to learn how
others are thinking.”

After 17 years in the Army, third-year
student Tom Kratman, 38, was similarly
unprepared for the “personal flexibility”
of law school. “It was a massive change
from the military, which was so far out
of touch with civilian life,” he says. “But
a decade of thinking militarily made it
easier to think legally.”

  
    
 
    
    
   
   
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
  
    

As an infantry officer, Kratma
served as civil affairs team commande,
during Operation Desert Storm anc
then Operation Provide Comfort for
Kurdish Rescue. The government gave
him the option of early retirement oral
special benefits separation Packag
worth $95,000. He took the cash ang
signed up for law school although aq |,
of those dollars disappeared into Un
Sam’s pockets (which may have spu
his interest in practicing tax law.
Anyway, he packed up his wife ani
three daughters and moved to Lexing.
ton to begin his civilian career,
Kratman received his undergraduar
degree from Boston College, majoring in
political science and philosophy, Hie
years in the infantry hardly preparee
him for law school. After all but brus

“It would have been a lot ea
if | had been 25, but | wouldn’

have had as much fun.’

| see ey
#f

AY yi he

Tom Kratman, #3!

  
 
    
 
  
   
 
 
 
   

ing the bottom third of his class his fi
year, he was in the top 15 to 20 by@
end of his second year. His affinity
tax law probably stems from dealit
with the “arcane regulations” of the
itary. Now he’s going through af
drill: job interviews.

When the opportunity arose thf
years ago for Larry Smith to sell hi
medical practice in Appomattox, Vas?
decided it was time to leave the Cal

he loved “I decided to make a change

¢ : ss ‘ °

before ] got burned out,” says Smith, 44,
c

affect!
fellow

bers. His ten
most pleasurable despite the fact that

yst people think he’s a professor

onately known as “Doc” by his
aw students and faculty mem-
ure in law school has been

m<
nste : E
if old Virginia schools,” he declares,
(

ad of a student. “I’ve taken a tour

“and | saved the best for last.”

Smith earned a B.S. in biology at
Hampden-Sydney and went on to the
University of Virginia for his M.D., resi-
dency and internship. As a solo practi-
tioner in internal medicine for 13 years,
in the small town where he had grown
up, Smith was always on call and
worked at least 13 hours a day, six to
seven days a week, and was always on
call. He served as the local medical

“It’s been a short three years,
although there have been some

long weeks in those years.”

Smith, 44

Larry

examiner. He delivered babies in park-
ing lots. “It was a real good experience
and I enjoyed it.”

Smith sees a need for professionals
with experience in both areas of law and
medicine. Now that he is finishing up
his law degree, he hopes to join a firm
Where he
relate
me

can be of service in medical-
| d cases, such as personal injury,
7 dical Products liability, and malprac-
= Just to name a few. “Medical care is
4C a crossroads.” he says. “Things will

i

have to change. Right now it’s not good
for patients or doctors.”

Rachel Rust, 39, had been accepted
to 14 law schools when she chose to
come to W&L in 1992. A licensed mar-
riage and family therapist in Texas for
nine years, she cashed in her pension
and received some help from her family
to finance her law education. “I gave up
my life to move from Dallas to
Lexington,” she says. As a therapist,
she did a lot of counseling for classmates
her first year. “I was treated to a lot of
free lunches,” she says, smiling.

Rust had always considered going to
law school—her father was a judge—but
as an idealistic young adult, she didn’t
think the profession of law was that use-
ful to people, so she went into social
work instead and was often asked to tes-

“Law school is a lot like
boot camp—you have to go

through basic training.”

 

 

Rachel Rust, 39

tify in court. “I was very disenchanted
with the way lawyers handled family
law, especially in divorce cases,” she
says. “If lawyers had counseling train-
ing, they wouldn’t do things the way
they do. There are ways to get divorced
without harming kids.” She definitely
plans to go into a family law practice: “I
am going to join the enemy, or at least
infiltrate the enemy camp.”

Building contractor John Loehr, 39,
was finishing up a large project at the

University of Virginia when he got his
acceptance letter to W&L. He had been
looking for something different to do—
something a little more intellectually
challenging and a little less physically
demanding. But tying up a business
took a while, so John commuted to
Lexington from Charlottesville for the
first year and a half of law school. He
has now moved his wife and two chil-
dren to the area and life has become a
little less hectic.

Loehr wants to work in the areas of
business and contract law and commer-
cial law, and he thinks his business
background has been beneficial to his
studies: “It helps to apply other experi-
ences you have to what you're doing
now.” One of his high points from law
school came in professor Frederic Kirgis’

“I can learn so much more
because I’ve worked—there’s

something to relate all this to.”

 

John

Loehr, 39

first-year Contracts class, when the topic
was a construction case and one of his
classmates said, “I’d like to ask Mr.
Loehr a question.”

Loehr thinks being older and wiser
makes a law education much more ful-
filling. “I think I can learn so much
more because I’ve worked. There’s
something to relate all of this to,” he
says. “And what a scam—going to class,
arguing, writing—it beats being up on a
roof in the rain.”

25

 

26

 

 

Rising from the sofa in the living
room of his Lexington home on a mid-
September morning, Cy Twombly
excuses himself to answer the tele-
phone. After a short conversation, he
returns, explaining with an apologetic
shrug, “That was New York. They’ve
gone and painted the walls gray.”

‘Twombly is referring to the walls of
the Museum of Modern Art in New
York, where a major retrospective of his
work, the largest ever mounted in the
United States, opened Sept. 25 and runs
through Jan. 10. It’s a project that he has
been working on for nearly three years,
and this last-minute minor irritation—he
had thought that the walls would be
white—will require him to fly to New
York the next day.

“I’m not a city person,” ‘—Ywombly
says, and true to his word, the next day
he’s back in Lexington, his birthplace
and his newfound idyll. “After over 35
years in Rome and Southern Italy, I
found Lexington to be the perfect kind
of intermediate place,” he says. “There
is an order, a lack of hysteria or confu-
sion here. I’m happy to have the rest
period, the calm. For lots of reasons it
was attractive.

“I don’t plan much,” he adds. “I had
always come back and forth to Virginia.
Then I bought this house. Lexington
seemed mesmerizingly perfect from a
distance...homemade. It’s all very easy
here. ‘There were no plans; it was just
the right moment.”

Modern art’s best-kept secret is less

 

 

 

Oil, pencil, and crayon on canvas
6'6°/." x 8'6!/4" (199.5 x 259.6 cm.)
‘The Museum of Modern Art,

The Blanchette Rockefeller Fund

The Italians
1961

New York

 

 

of a secret these days, thanks to a recent
spate of interviews timed to coincide
with the MoMA show and even a snide
aside made by Morley Safer in a “60
Minutes” expose on modern art, in
essence making fun of his name: “This
[painting] is by Cy ‘Twombly, and was
sold for $2,145,000. And that’s dollars,
not ['womblys.”

‘Twombly himself is too gracious for
rancor. ‘The retrospective is his moment
to be savored and enjoyed. (It does help
when one’s paintings have fetched as
much as $5 million.) But as someone ill
at ease with self-promotion, he is weary
of another interview, and he has had
enough of talking (“I’ve said too much
already...I’m going to shut up now’).

‘The decision to make Lexington the
site of his semi-permanent return to the
United States—he plans to spend the
spring and fall seasons here—speaks
volumes about ‘'wombly’s sense of pri-
orities. “As you get older, you don’t
require as many things for distraction,”
he says. Indeed for someone who was
labeled “The Granddaddy of Disorder”
in a New York Times story, Twombly
seems to thrive on the comfortable,
familiar rhythms of small-town life.

‘Twombly’s lifelong interest in the
art, history, and architecture of the area
had its roots in his early years in
Lexington. “It all came from here,” he
says of his influences. “All those
columns,” he adds slyly. “There are
many, many things I never would have
done if I'd been born somewhere else.”

  
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
    
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
   
  

As the son and namesake of
athletic director Edwin Parker
‘Twombly, who taught and coae
Washington and Lee for 53 yea
Jr.'s boyhood was spent much lik
other faculty kid’s—he had the
Doremus Gymnasium. But w
father is said to have struck out
Ruth as a onetime pitcher fe
Chicago White Sox, it soon becé
dent that, despite Twombly’s ¢
frame and large hands, he was
adept with a paintbrush than a ba
His parents, recognizing his taler
12-year-old Cy to study with
bridge Baths artist Pierre Daura, a
iard who had been a part of the
et Carré group in France. As a te
at Lexington High School, Tw
designed the backdrops for
Monroe Penick’s musical producti

Twombly received his first for
school training at the School :
Museum of Fine Arts in Boston
entering Washington and Lee in
At W&L, he became one of the fi
dents in the newly created art ¢
ment headed by Marion Junkin.
was so impressed by the youn
that he suggested Twombly apph
fellowship from the Art Stt
League of New York. There he
his friendship with Robert Rau
berg, who accompanied him to t
tigious Black Mountain Coll
North Carolina where they ¢
under Robert Motherwell (who E
was calling Twombly “the most 4

 

 

plished young painter” he had ever en-

countered).

Twombly staged his first one-man
show in 1951, after which he received a
fellowship from the Virginia Museum of
Art that enabled him to make his way
through Europe and North Africa,
accompanied by Rauschenberg. After a
short stint in the Army, Twombly
returned to Lexington, where he took a
position teaching art at Southern
Seminary in Buena Vista.

Twombly was initially attracted to
Europe by “the idea of all that space”:
“All you had to do for a studio was to
whitewash it,” he adds. He also devel-
oped a deep and abiding love for the
Mediterranean region after the 1952 trip
to Italy and North Africa.

Compared to fellow Southerners
Jasper Johns and Rauschenberg, Twom-
bly is still a relative unknown outside of
art circles. His decision to move to Italy
in 1957 may account for the lack of
Name recognition in his native country.
It has also lent him the slightly mysteri-
Ous air of the expatriate, although he has
traveled regularly to the United States
Over the years.

| Certainly it would be easy to explain
his nearly 37 years abroad as a result of
his 1959 Marriage to an Italian, Tatiana
Franchetti, 0; to the fact that he found

m<¢ > an = . . :
fe acceptance in Europe than in

A ry vs . .
Merica (a disastrous showing at the

Castell; 7.11 se
stelli Gallery in New York in 1964, a

Whitney in |

ved retrospective at the
979). The reality may be

ee

 

much simpler. In his introduction to the
retrospective’s catalogue, Kirk Varna-
doe, MoMA’s chief curator of painting
and sculpture, writes: “["T]wombly] had
not planned a lengthy stay but found
Italian life seductive. He found himself
caught up in an unexpected and power-
ful tide of personal and art-world cir-
cumstance, centering on a new nexus of
friendships.”

‘T'wombly’s departure for Rome, his
subsequent marriage, and the birth of
his son in 1960 coincided with some of
the most productive years of his career.
But the art world is by no means
immune to the vagaries of fashion, and
by the early ’60s, with Pop Art and
Minimalism transcendent, I'wombly’s
work seemed out of step to some. While
Rauschenberg and Johns were lionized,
‘Twombly was viewed as too Abstract
Expressionist, too European. In the
years since, I'wombly gained an illustri-
Ous international reputation while
enduring the ups and downs of critical
acclaim in his own country. It no doubt
strikes him as a bit ironic that at a time
when European art is again in critical
favor, he has been “rediscovered” in the
media and the art world.

At the moment, [Twombly is in the
midst of building a small studio behind
his Lexington house. “It looks like the
sort of place where you’d take piano
lessons,” he jokes about the work in
progress. After the excitement of the
New York opening subsides (from there
the exhibition will travel to Houston,

 

Untitled
1971
Oil, house paint, and crayon on canvas
6'71/," x | 1'21)," (198 x 348 cm.)
Private collection
On loan to
‘The Menil Collection, Houston

 

 

 

Los Angeles, and Berlin), he will be able
to return to his familiar pace—his bay-
side home in Gaeta, Italy, and a modest
1920s brick house located on a quiet
lane in his native Lexington.

“Artists like to live simply, despite
the glamorous images in the maga-
zines,” he says. “You know, all the vases
[in these articles] have to be Ming, but,
they probably came from the Wal-Mart
or something,” he says impishly.

He continues: “When they write, ‘He
lives in a pa/azzo in Rome,’ well, every-
one thinks I live in Buckingham Palace.
Roman pa@/azzi are not castles. They are
just family houses passed down through
the generations. Most of them were
built by agrarian people with land in the
country. All the pa/azzi in Venice have
these large main halls on the canal
where the boats unloaded produce.”

Like most painters, I'wombly’s sense
of place is finely tuned. He can recount
the histories behind all the houses in his
neighborhood and indulge his passion
for architecture as well. “Architecturally,
Lexington is interesting for a small
town,” he says. “The 18th-century
Jeffersonian influence shows up every-
where. It’s been a hard struggle to keep
it interesting and used.”

He’s quite happy with his home in
Lexington. It’s within walking distance
of downtown, including the post office,
the coffee shop, everything he really
needs (which is a good thing, since
‘Twombly doesn’t drive).

“Americans don’t walk much any-

29

more,” Twombly notes. “It’s all park-
ing. Cities tear down their centers for
parking lots. Europe is slightly different.
There, the centers are all used, still
patronized. Things were not planned,
they just built up.”

Part of what still attracts him to Italy
is the unconscious way history weaves
its way into everyday life. “It exists in
the nature very strongly there,” he says.
“You know, all those Catholic churches
were founded on top of pagan sites.
They still have lots of holidays and festi-
vals that are based on old rituals and the
seasons. The Pantheon is now a church.”

Much has been made of ‘T'wombly’s
sense of history, his fascination with
Greek and Roman mythology with their
heroes and epics, and indeed, he has a
very European sensibility when it comes
to referencing the past. Southerners,
especially Virginians, share this trait of
living with one foot in the past.

And despite living half his life in
another country, I'wombly is still very
much a Southerner. It’s evident in his
courtliness, his still-pronounced drawl.
His manner of speaking is somewhat
disconcerting at first, but it soon
becomes clear that ‘Twombly vocalizes
in much the same way that he paints, in
dribs and drabs and sudden looping sen-
tences that drift into silence or in which
a catch phrase will suddenly bubble to
the surface.

“Lexington is not your typical
Southern town,” he says—a phrase he
has used often in myriad interviews in
recent months (everywhere from Vogue
and Harper’s Bazaar to Time and
Newsweek). “There is a certain sophisti-
cation you get here with the colleges
that you don’t often find elsewhere. It
still has strong characteristics.”

It seems ironic, perhaps, that after all
these years away, it is Lexington, not
Rome, that holds the greater appeal to
Twombly. “It’s noisy and crowded,” he
says of his adopted city. “You know,
Rome was built inside a wall.”

‘Twombly stoops to pick up a hickory
nut and twirls it, lifting it to his nose.
Soon he’ll take his daily stroll down to
the post office, get his daily cup of cof-
fee. But not just yet—there will be time
for that later.

30

UNDERSTANDING |
‘TWOMBLY

No matter which way you look at it
there’s no substitute for seeing Cy

By Pamela H. Simpson

 

  
 
  
 

ms

 

 

Achaeans in Battle
(from Fifty Days at Ilium, painting in 10 parts)
1977-78
Oil, crayon, and pencil on canvas
9'10" x 12'5!/" (300 x 380 cm.)
Philadelphia Museum of Art. Purchased

 

UG

 

New York Times art critic John Russell
once began a review of Cy ‘T'wombly’s
work by asking, “When is the ‘writing
on the wall’ not bad news? When it’s by
Cy Twombly.” Russell went on to note
that Belshazzar may have lost his
appetite when he saw what was inter-
rupting his dinner, but when ‘Twombly
does the writing, there is nothing but
delight.

Cy Twombly has been delighting
and sometimes puzzling art audiences
for some 40 years now. He had his first
one-man exhibit in 1951 and since then

  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

ih
®

has had nearly 100 such showings.
work has also been included in nu
ous group exhibits and is represente
major collections in Europe
America, including the Museu
Modern Art, the Whitney, the Phi
phia Museum of Art, and the

Collection in Houston. But, since 1
chosen to live most of his life

expatriate in Italy, he has been, t
now, much better known in Eu
than in America. The major retro:
tive that recently opened at
Museum of Modern Art and the SP

-

i

g that is being added to the Menil to

win
his work will change that.

house
Americ
0 sec his n

| think that’s important because one

ans will finally have the chance
yajor work firsthand.

son his work is not always understood

rea |
-. hecause people know it only through
is

reproductions. Images reduced to the

printed page make it difficult to grasp
the impact of his huge canvases. ‘lo see
chem as they should be seen, it has to be
in real life, and it’s even better in an
installation he has helped to create such
as the “Fifty Days at Iliam” exhibit at
the Philadelphia Museum. There, in a
separate alcove, is a series of 10 paint-
ings drawn from the subject of the
Trojan War. ‘The large paintings evoked
for me the sublime—that sense of some-
thing so awe-inspiring, something so
much larger than oneself in scale and
meaning, that one is transformed by it.
It is an ego-displacing experience. You
are overwhelmed by the grandeur and
the beauty of it.

I also felt that way last spring when
Twombly invited a group of us to see
his latest painting in his Lexington stu-
lhe

“er

dio. He had tentatively titled it
Anatomy of Melancholy.” The canvas
was more than 20 feet long and divided
into three parts. On his painting table,
he had laid out for us a reproduction of
an ancient stele carving of men setting
off in boats, and his own handwritten
copies of fragments of the ancient poem
that had inspired the painting. Looking
at the images and the poetry, one could
then turn and look at the canvas and see
references to the boats on the left side
and excerpts from the poetry scattered
through all three sections in his
distinctive calligraphic script.
The section of the canvas on

the right had the cloud-like
form that was so prominent

in the Philadelphia “Fifty
Days at Iliam” series.

Vhere it clearly referred
to the shades, or ghosts
of the key participants.
Here, it also seemed
oe refer to death.
Uhe poem was by

the Roman author
Catullus. who had

sailed to Asia Minor to find the grave of
his brother. The sense of passage, of a
journey, of death and life in a sad, poetic
ritual was present. The scale was such
that you could not grasp it all at once.
You had to read the parts, to recreate a
journey yourself as you went from sec-
tion to section. And you literally had to
read. I'wombly’s use of writing, of frag-
ments of words and letters, is a recurrent
theme in all his work.

‘Twombly is often classified as a sec-
ond-generation Abstract Expressionist,
as are his friends, Robert Rauschenberg
and Jasper Johns, but like them, he has
pushed the limits of that definition. The
canvas for him has been a writing sur-
face in which he has explored with a
remarkably subtle gesture the nature of
signs and memory. It is a poetic and elu-
sive marking that dissolves and re-
emerges like memory itself.

John Russell described it thus:
“Common to almost all [of “—Twombly’s
work] is the participation of the written
mark, as distinct from the mark that is
brushed, poured or dripped. Sometimes
the written mark is_ incidental.
Sometimes it bears virtually the whole
burden of the picture. ... What is pecu-
liar to Twombly is the

richness and com-

   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

plexity of the
echoes he can
draw from this
mode of ex-
pression. ...
What he aims

to give us is

a ilies

not the look of great events. . . but the
fragmented memory of them.”

My favorite statement about what a
Twombly painting feels like came from
Mark Stevens who wrote in a Vanity Fair
article in 1990: “a ‘Twombly looks the
way thinking sometimes feels. Or per-
haps thinking is too laborious a word.
Musing is more like it. The repertoire of
scratches, fade-outs, and impulsive jot-
tings; the offhand efflorescence of words
across paper and the unraveling of ideas
into threads of whimsy; the clotted
bejeweled intensities; the throwaway
nothings; all these remind me of what
happens while daydreaming after having
put down a book. T'wombly’s highly
personal art has a freedom, a near care-
lessness and refusal to conclude, that is
like the meandering play of the mind.”

Of course, there will always be those

who think it looks like a five-year old
child did it. Those are the same people
who have trouble understanding why
Picasso is so important, let alone Jackson
Pollock or Cy ‘Twombly. I tell my stu-
dents that we usually have two major
criteria for “greatness” in art. One is the
big breakthrough; the second is that the
person had a lot of influence on others.
Picasso certainly fits that criteria with
his Cubist rethinking of the relationship
between art and nature. Pollock fits it
with his creation of the all-over compo-
sition and the use of the active gesture
that recorded the dynamic movements
of his arm in creating the image.
‘Twombly fits it too. He has built on the
all-over compositional technique of the
Abstract Expressionists. He has kept
their sense of gesture and their personal
intensity. But he has also extended it
into the cerebral world of signs and
symbols. A poet once referred to
‘Twombly as a “voyager into the realm
that lies beyond knowing.” That’s the
place where poetry and painting merge,
where intuition takes over, where
insight can grab your heart.

Yes, it is sometimes difficult to
understand ‘'wombly’s paintings. But it
is well worth the effort. My best advice
is go see it in real life.

Simpson is Ernest Williams II professor
of art history at Washington and Lee.

31

W&L Law

Excerpts from remarks by first-year law
dean Barry Sullivan to first-year law stu-
dents in Lee Chapel Aug. 19:

I know that you have sat before,
metaphorically speaking, in the same
seats that you are sitting in today. By
that, I mean new seats—beginning stu-
dent seats. You did that when you start-
ed nursery school, elementary school,
junior high, high school, and college.
But those were all new seats that were
more alike than different. ‘There was a
continuum. You were starting a new
school, but you were engaged in the
same unfolding process: acquiring a
basic education. You had a new start,
but you were continuing along the same
road. You were reaching new mileposts,
but you were travelling the same road.

Today is different. ‘Today is not just
another milepost on the road, but a fork
in the road. A new road.

‘This is not just a new school or a new
course of study; you are beginning a
course of education for a profession.
When you complete this course of pro-
fessional education, and pass the bar
exam, you will be given a license to
counsel people about their legal rights
and duties, and to speak for them in
courts and agencies and other places.

That license represents an extraordi-
nary privilege. It is a great privilege to
stand before a court and say, “May it

please the Court. I appear today on

behalf of the Board of Trustees of

Washington and Lee University, or the

Public Service Commission of West

Virginia, or the Judges of the State of

Illinois.” It is no less a privilege to speak
on behalf of the most impecunious,
wretched, and despised person who has
exhausted all his chances in life except
for you. You may stand—as I have
done—between him and the death
penalty for a crime he may not have
committed. Surely, Justice Holmes was
right when he said that one can live
greatly in the law.

But what does that law license signi-

fy? ‘Three things, really. First, that you

32

Sullivan to First-Years: ‘You Have to be
Honest, and You Have to be Prepared’

_ ; ; siatn ,
Incr fLity bs

have a certain knowledge of the law.
You can tell a tort from a contract. You
can’t now, but you will. I can assure you
of that. Second, that you have certain
technical skills. You don’t just know
some legal doctrine, but you know how
to reason about legal things. And you
will. I can assure you of that, too. If you
apply yourself, and you don’t just sit on
your behinds, you will know about the
substance of the law and the methods of
legal reasoning. Third, that the State, or
the Commonwealth, believes that you
have the character necessary to be
entrusted with the handling of someone
else’s affairs—that you will treat them as
seriously as if they were your own. In
other words, that you are a person of
integrity—a person of honor.

Now, that’s the rub. I can’t assure
you that you will be a person of honor
when you leave our law school. We'll try
to help you become that, but whether
we succeed is basically up to you, even
more than the other two things I’ve
talked about. And that’s too bad,
because it’s the most important. If you
have a reputation as a brilliant lawyer,
but one whose word is not to be trust-

ed—if other lawyers and judges don’t

 

like sand in the gears of justice,” Sullivan told the law class of °97.

believe that you are a woman or man of
honor—you will not succeed in the pro-
fession of the law. You may do very well
for a while, but it will catch up to you.

Let me tell you why this is on my
mind. While I was wrapping up my
practice in Chicago this spring, four sto-
ries were published about the bar in
about as many weeks. First, a partner im
one of the most prestigious law firms in
the city—indeed, in the country—was
charged with scheming to get around
the random selection process for assign
ing judges to cases. We don't want
lawyers picking judges according ©
their biases, so we try to do it randomly.
This lawyer wanted to beat the system
he wanted a particular judge assigned @
his case—someone he thought would
rule in his favor. Instead of filing OR©
case, he filed about 20. That way, he
could get the judge he wanted. He then
quickly dismissed all the cases that got
assigned to other judges. But someon®
figured it out.

Second, another partner in the same
firm was charged with stealing from 4
major corporate client. He had agte®
not to charge the client for certain
expenses. That’s how he got the bust-

al

P

nes
firm wasn’t making enough money

the .
n the engagement. So he just pretend-
0 5"

ed ro Wor
$600 in expenses, and his time was

harged at $300 per hour, he just added
c | © jus
hours of time to the bill. Someone

s but then it occurred to him that

k more hours. If there were

rwO
figured that out, too.

Third, there was the case of the man-
aging partner of another very prestigious
firm who gave the firm’s delinquent
accounts to his wife—a partner in anoth-
er very big firm—for collection. ‘They
pretended that the wife never collected
the delinquent accounts and they pock-
eted the money. Someone figured that
out, too—a partner in the wife’s firm.

Finally, the wife blew the whistle on
the partner who blew the whistle on her.
For each of the past four years, year in
and year out, he had billed his clients for
6.000 hours a year. Just figure that one
eut—how many hours a day, and how
many days a year, he would have had to
work, non-stop, to pull that off.

Why am | telling you these depress-
ing stories? Not to depress you, but to
emphasize to you that there is a lot of
temptation out there. Lawyers are peo-
ple who deal in trust. They can’t do
their jobs unless people trust them, and
that is an awesome responsibility.

Sometime in the next few days,
you're going to sign a pledge that you
will conduct yourself as a person of
honor during the next three years. That
is a good thing. It is part of a centrally
important tradition of this University.
But for students in this law school, even
that is not enough. By saying that you
are ready to study law—and to under-
take the important responsibilities
placed on lawyers in this society—you
dre representing that you are prepared
to live not just three years, but a lifetime
of honor,

You don’t have to be brilliant to be a
800d lawyer. But you do have to be hon-
“st, and you have to be prepared. If
you're not honest, or you're not pre-
Pared, it doesn’t matter how brilliant
you are. You’re not going to succeed at
So these are two habits worth
Cultivating,
these

the law.

and you can start cultivating
habits right now.

ae
0uU also want to have a reputation for

eS

treating people with civility. That might
not sound very important right now, but
it is. Being civil to your opponents and
to the court does not mean that you're a
sissy. It is essential to the operation of
our system of justice. Incivility is like
sand in the gears of justice. Even in liti-
gation, you are expected to land hard
blows, but not foul ones.

I urge you to cultivate the habit of
civility and to take pride in your reputa-
tion for civility. And, I might add, this is
a virtue that you can perfect while you
are here—by choosing to disagree with-
out being disagreeable, by treating other
people with respect, and, generally, by
turning down—rather than turning up—
the heat under the boiling pot of contro-
versy. It means treating other people’s
ideas on the merits, and with respect,
and not simply disparaging the person
who disagrees with you based on extra-
neous factors such as his or her race or
religion, ethnic background, sex, or sex-
ual orientation. Entertaining the possi-
bility that you don’t know all the
answers to everything is a great aid to
the study of civility.

Finally, let me emphasize that we
are a public profession, and we have
duties to the public that go along with
that. We have a proud tradition in this
country that lawyers represent people
they don’t agree with, whose causes
they abhor, who are despised by others,
who cannot afford to pay for our ser-
vices, and so forth. ‘That is a proud tradi-
tion that goes back to at least the Boston
Massacre Trial, when John Adams
defended the British soldiers who stood
in the dock. ‘That is an important part of
our heritage as lawyers, and I urge all of
you to keep it in mind. If you practice
law, I assure that you will have to decide
at some point, sooner or later, whether
to follow that principle. Someday you
will be confronted by a would-be client
whose views or cause you believe to be
abhorrent, or you will have a paying
client who strenuously objects to your
taking—with or without a fee—the case
of someone he or she believes to be
abhorrent. ‘These are real problems you
will face, and I hope that you find the
courage to follow John Adams.

We are proud of the achievements

 

which brought you here, and we have
great hopes for you. On behalf of the
faculty, | welcome you to Lewis Hall
and wish you the very best for the next
three years. But I also welcome you to a
profession in which it truly is possible
“to live greatly.” | hope that your years
here will be but a prelude to great
careers that bring much success to you
personally and much good to our coun-
try and to the world.

Reproductive Technology
Topic of Law Symposium

‘The Moot Courtroom at Lewis Hall
was the setting Sept. 23 for a “A Brave
New World? Children of Choice in the
Age of Reproductive Technology,” a
symposium ad-
dressing the legal,
ethical and social
issues arising from
developing tech-
nologies such as
reproductive as-
sistance, genetic
screening and
manipulation, and research on embryos
and the concerns and controversy
regarding human reproduction.

John A. Robertson (pictured), profes-
sor of law at the University of ‘Texas,
Austin and author of Children of Choice:
Freedom and the New Reproductive Tech-
nologies, argued for the “presumptive
primacy” of the rights of would-be par-
ents as opening speaker. ‘The sympo-
sium offered an interdisciplinary reac-
tion to Robertson’s ideas from the fields
of law, feminist philosophy, theology,
and medicine. Representing these dis-
ciplines were: Howard W. Jones Jr., of
the Howard and Georgeanna Jones In-
stitute for Reproductive Medicine at
Eastern Virginia Medical School in
Norfolk and a pioneer in the field of in
vitro fertilization; W&L associate pro-
fessor Ann MacLean Massie, who
teaches health law, bioethics, and con-
stitutional law; Gilbert C. Meilaender
Jr., professor of religion at Oberlin
College and a member of the board of
directors of the Society of Christian
Ethics; and Laura M. Purdy, professor
of philosophy at Wells College.

33

 

 

-
._ =
an

©

 

 

Goat’s Head Revisited

Senior football captain Marc Newman recalls the people
and customs of Africa—and the meal he left behind

To say that Washington and Lee
senior football player Marc Newman has
gained a new perspective on the world
would be an understatement. While the
rest of his classmates spent last winter
freezing in one of Lexington’s coldest
winters ever, the native Floridian was
one of 24 college students from across
the country taking part in a four-month
educational program in Africa sponsored
by the School for International ‘Training.
“The trip gives you a really interesting
perspective on a whole different side of
life,” says Newman. “You can’t see it on
TV or in the movies. ‘Their main focus is
how to survive.”

The trip to Kenya began with a crash
course on Swahili (“fun, logical, and

,

easy to learn,” according to Newman).
During this portion of the trip he also
stayed with a host family in Nairobi.
‘Though the family’s compound had no
running water, Newman quickly felt at
home, so much that he stayed with the
family later on while the rest of the
group stayed together in a dormitory.
From there the group went to a rural
village—four buildings, no electricity—
called Kathangathini and spent 10 days

34

in a work camp, leveling roads and mak-
ing bricks out of dirt. “We basically
slept on the floor,” he says, but that
didn’t stop Newman from enjoying him-
self. “We played hoops on dirt and
played soccer in a field with cows all
around. It’s amazing to see how much
people can make out of nothing.” As
much as Newman enjoyed his stay at
Kathangathini he was happy to leave
when he did. A big male-bonding kind
of honor is to eat the face of a goat—but
the goat’s head stew being prepared by
the natives was not quite done as the
group left the village.

From there, the group returned to
Nairobi and went through a three-week
lecture series with Kenyan professors
that was vastly different from his experi-

ence with W&L professors. “They were

very authoritative and there was no
interaction,” he says.

During the final portion of the trip
each student worked on an independent
study project. Newman’s project was on
reclaiming land in one of Kenya’s two
national parks. While working on the
project the anthropology/environmental
science major managed to squeeze in

 
 

some time for some breathtaking moun. ,
tain biking and scuba diving—although
his most lasting memory of Kenya Was
being on a minibus so crowded he Was
literally suspended in the gir and
couldn’t get his feet on the ground.
Closer to home, Newman is Playing
his final season with the W&I, foot
program. The 5-foot-11, 175-pound
defensive back has earned second
All-Old Dominion Athletic Conference
honors at free safety the last two years,
but this time around he’s at corner
a position he also played as a freshman,
In the Generals’ 9-3 over Davidson Oct.
8, Newman had 12 tackles and a quar.
terback sack. “Now I’m expected to
perform,” he says, “whereas, three years
ago it was more like, let’s see what he

can do.”

As a free safety last season, New
amassed 66 tackles, two interceptions,
and a team-high six pass breakups—
solid numbers, but a notch below his
stellar 1992 campaign when he had 83
tackles, two interceptions, and 10
breakups in just nine games. “Last year
I focused on trying to be a leader and 1
think it hurt my game,” he says. ‘%
wasn’t pleased with how I played.”

Ironically, Newman was recruited to
W&L as a kicker and wide receiver. He
played a grand total of five games at
wide receiver and five games at defen-
sive back while serving as the kicker at
Nease High School in St. Augustine.
Newman kicked the first half of his
sophomore season at W&L and booted a
42-yard field goal, but was more than —
happy to turn the duties over to then- :
freshman teammate Drew Thomas. —
“When I didn’t kick well I started get
ting down,” he recalls, “and it hurt me
on defense.” «

Newman has one more responsibility
to go with his new position, as one of
three senior captains along with team
mates Jason Chartrand and Stephen
Cox. Leadership seems to come as natu-
rally to him as travel: Newman jokes:
about continuing his gridiron careet
Australia before going to graduate Se
in environmental planning, but ™
likely he’ll go to South America for
while. But first things first: “Im ®
ready to stop playing.” —By Brian

   
   
 
  

 

 

Please accept my order for Washington and Lee

=

Add $7.50 handling and insured shipping charge per plate.
On shipments to Virginia, add 4.5% state sales tax to total.

ORDERED BY

Plate(s) for $150 each ($100 of each plate is tax deductible).

 

 

 

SHIP TO

 

STREET ADDRESS

 

Crry/STATE/ZIP

 

DAYTIME PHONE

 

1) VISA () MASTERCARD C) CHECK

CARD NUMBER/EXPIRATION DATE

METHOD OF PAYMENT

 

NAME AS IT APPEARS ON CARD

 

 

MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC. Lexington, VA 24450

Make checks payable to “Washington and Lee Plate.”
Allow 6 to 8 weeks for delivery.

 

FEATURING A SIX-COLOR DETAILED RECREATION
OF THE WASHINGTON AND LEE CREST

Sponsored by the Class of 1953

 

 

Wace Aldmdina itbdo. bhi: N

ow 26, 119

N A Nie'B Bi os: Boom

 

 

 

 

 

— BOSTON ROCKER [) ARMCHAIR
Black lacquer Black lacquer with
or cherry arms or

Dark pine $250 Dark pine $250

: he Boston Rocker requires some assembly.

. lake check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Prices
inc > fre} i
nclude freight charges. Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery.

 

Armchairs and Rockers

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-
rubbed in black lacquer or dark pine stain. The five-color
crest of the University is painted on the back of each chair or
rocker. ‘They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture
and are welcome gifts for Christmas, birthdays, graduation,
anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham °14.

Order by phone or fax! Credit card orders may be placed by
calling (703) 463-8464 or by faxing this form to the W&L
Alumni Office at (703) 463-8473. Or mail your order to:
Washington and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA 24450.

ORDERED BY

 

SHIP TO

 

STREET ADDRESS
Ciry/STATE/ZIP

DAYTIME PHONE

 

 

 

OC) VISA
CARD NUMBER/EXPIRATION DATE

METHOD OF PAYMENT C}]) MASTERCARD C) CHECK

 

NAME AS IT APPEARS ON CARD

 

 

 

ji

35

 

Alumni News

 

 

 

 

Homecoming 94: Sunny and Spectacular

 
 

A Good Weather Day, and a Great Alumni Weekend

 

 

 

Moments from Homecoming (from left): Five-Star Generals relax at the Alumni House; Homecoming queen Carol Pierce ’95 1s crowned by

Executive Committee president Kevin Webb ’95L; retired alumni secretary Bill Washburn 40 catches up with old acquaintances.

“A bad-weather day in Lexington is
better than most other locations,” says
Bob Wittpenn °82, Alumni Association
president for 1994-95, “but a good day
in Lexington simply can’t be beat.”

By that measure, Homecoming ’94
indeed.
“We've gotten so lucky with the weath-

was a very good weekend,

er,” says Jim Farrar ’74, director of alum-
ni programs. “It was right out of a travel
brochure.”

Farrar and Wittpenn had more on
their agenda than just a good time, how-
ever, as the pair presided over a three-
day chapter presidents’ conference from
Sept. 29 through Oct. 1.“It was a very
productive weekend in terms of sup-
porting many of Washington and Lee’s
key volunteers—our chapter presi-
dents,” says Farrar. The three-day con-
ference drew 60 representatives from 53
chapters—‘“from as far away as Miami,
Bosron, Seattle and San Diego, and
every place in between,” he notes.

The conference provided a compre-
hensive update on all aspects of the
University; a status report on the capital
campaign, with prospects for the re-
maining nine months of the five-year,
$127 million effort; an admissions report

of particular interest to the extensive

36

chapter network tied to the Alumni
Admissions Program; and perhaps most
important, the components of successful
chapter organization, such as leadership
succession plans, boards, and bylaws.

“We want to support the work of
these key volunteers with an emphasis
on their significance to Washington and
Lee,” Farrar says. “It is always good for
us to be reminded of the fact that they
are volunteers for this University.”

“The support that our Alumni Board
members are giving these people is very
he adds.

profitable weekend.”

strong as well,” “It was a very

Friday’s Homecoming activities
began with the annual John Randolph
Tucker Lecture in Lewis Hall. Paul D.
Carrington, the Harry R. Chadwick pro-
fessor of law at the Duke University
school of law, spoke on “The ‘Twenty-
first Wisdom,” as well as addressing the
many contributions made to legal educa-
tion by the Tuckers of Virginia.

An afternoon seminar titled “The
Press of the Press” brought Five-Star
General George E. Goodwin °39, senior
counselor with Manning, Selvage, and
Lee, onto the same podium alongside
W&L professors William Connelly,
associate professor of politics, and

Edwin M. Yoder Jr., professor of journal _

ism. The duPont Auditorium seminar
addressed the media’s role in public
affairs. ening concert at ch
Lenfest Center’s Keller Theatre fea=

An e\

   
   
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  

tured choral ensembles Southern Com= —

ee.

fort and General Admission. -
Washington and Lee’s third ann -
Homecoming Parade kicked off ga 1c
day with a procession that began@ .
Brewbaker Field, wound its way down
Main Street, then turned left ont
Washington Street toward campus.
The parade was revived in 1992
the suggestion of the leaders of W&E
student alumni group, Kathekon. Som
20 organizations, including several stt
dent groups, most fraternities, and
four sororities, vied for the coveted tf
phy for the best float, a three-foo
stuffed mink on a walnut and brass bas
“Everybody got into the spirit
things,” Farrar says. The parade als
included two area high school mare
bands, three fire departments and
cue teams, Civil War reenactment 8
the Liberty Hall Volunteers, a carriag
load of Five-Star Generals, a juggle
two unicyclists, four clowns, a PfO%
sion of dogs from the SPCA, and
including Isabel and Winson Barket

°F

 

(Left) Chari
exchange

spoils Of I

the oldest alumnus in attendance;
Lexington mayor H.E. “Buddy” Derrick;
Virginia Sixth District congressman Bob
Goodlatte °77L; and retired W&L proc-
tor Charles “Murph” Murray.

The only snafu occurred early on,
when freshman Andrew Curry was
thrown from the Pi Kappa Alpha float
into a stopped car when driver Atticus
Gill °97 turned a corner. Curry was treat-
ed for bruises and a cut on his face,
according to a report in The Trident.

Another unexpected landing oc-
curred during halftime activities of the
Generals’ 2 p.m. contest against Ran-
dolph-Macon when Executive Com-
mittee president Kevin Webb ’95L,
having announced the two runners-up,
prepared to announce the 1994 Home-

coming queen. There was only one

= .
Presid nf

Alumnj R,

ee

 

problem: He didn’t have the name, and
panic ensued.

Then along came not one, but /wo
parachutists onto the football field in
quick succession. As associate director
of alumni programs Rob Mish ’76 tells
the story, “the students who were in
charge of the two envelopes that had the
first and second runners-up were look-
ing all around for it and getting agitated,
when lo and behold, right out of the
blue to the strains of “The W&L Swing’
comes the second parachutist [Scott
French of Free-Falling Skydivers]. He
opens up his jacket, flashes the enve-
lope, runs over to the microphone and
announces the Homecoming Queen,
and gives Carol Pierce a kiss.”

So who was this other guy, anyway?
“He was supposed to have the first run-

 

ice president Robert Haley '89, Alumni Board member Dallas Hagewood 90, and Palmetto president Forest Jenkins ’84
tories; (center) Kappa Alpha Theta chair Samantha Hollomon °95 and Lambda Chi Alpha chair Peter Weissman °96 share the

b trophy for outstanding homecoming float; and coach Gary Fallon sends in a play (the Generals lost to Randolph-Macon, 19-0).

ner-up,” Mish explains with a laugh.
When he didn’t have an envelope, he
took the jump, anyway.”

But we digress. Other weekend high-
lights included a post-game reception at
the W&L Alumni House honoring retir-
ing coach Buck Leslie °49 (see page 53),
who is stepping down after 34 years in
December; a dinner honoring the more
than 90 Five-Star Generals in atten-
dance in Evans Dining Hall Friday; and
a cluster reunion that invites members
of the four most recent graduating class-
es back for an informal get-together.

The last word on Homecoming,
though, belongs to Bob Wittpenn. “I
often gauge my weekend on how quick
the drive back home goes,” says the
Peapack (N.J.) resident, “and this one
went really quickly.”

 

resentatives from more than 50 of WEL’s 82 alumni chapters descended upon Lexington for their triennial gathering with the

Sept. 29 through Oct. 1. We'd identify them all, but this ts only a 56-page magazine, and you know who you are.

37

 

=

 

 

Captain’s Log:
From Hamlet to Hardy

From Aug. 12-27, a group of 76 alumni
and friends, including President John
Wilson and professor emeritus Sidney
Coulling °46 as faculty, navigated “The
British Isles: From Hamlet to Hardy,
aboard the 80-passenger Aurora as members
of the 1994-95 Alumni College Abroad.
Special programs director Rob Fure kept a
journal of the trip, and we snuck a peek.

August 14, Copenhagen: We
Elsinor for a tour of Kronburg, the castle

visited

identified by Shakespeare as Hamlet’s.
Upon arrival, we were greeted at a spe-
cial door by Hamlet himself, played
improbably by a rather lanky middle-
aged woman wearing the Prince’s pan-
taloons and her own glasses.

August 17, Edinburgh: John Wilson
praised Macbeth as Shakespeare’s most
artistically integrated play, “an art
identifying
After an

object of absolute balance,”
a variety of “image clusters.”
interlude on 11th-century Scotland, per-
haps to satisfy those curious about the
real Macbeth, he touched on two of the
play’s themes, or political problems:

woman’s power Over man, and royal suc-

38

 

=.

 

DTA iF til) ve |

cession with no issue. ‘The play is about
“attempting to secure the future,” he
argued, through the ironically opposite
means of “killing children,” an act that
represents the abandonment of compas-
sion and love, procreation and life. ‘The
audience was visibly intrigued.

August 19, Orkney Islands: Shortly after
breakfast, Sid Coulling offered a de-
lightful talk on Robert Burns’ life and
poetry. Sid’s praise for “the world’s most
popular poet since Homer” was ample
and by the end of the hour even rather
convincing. The talk was vintage Coul-
ling, carefully organized, eloquently
spoken with wit and feeling, and deliv-
ered without a single reference to a
note. Our guide, Pat, followed with a
charming example of Burns’s song, sung
in a sweet voice, as if a “wee bairn”
were on her maternal knee.

August 21, Mull and Iona: Vhe Wilsons
hosted a cocktail party that evening.
Some of the participants bailed out due
to the land swells that continued to rock
the ship, but the party was warm and
pleasant. After dinner, a few folks sang
Scottish songs with Paul at the piano,

but Scotland would be passing out of

sight in darkness even as we sang into

     

All abroad that’s going abroad: A boat full of Generals

the late hours. ‘tomorrow, we would be
learning Irish melodies.
boarded the

coach for a one-hour overview of Lon-

August 25, London: We

don. Our guide, Corinna, presented a
tour de force: Her delivery was so aston-
ishingly rapid and yet so richly detailed
with historical fact, social and political
insight, and deft irony—her favorite top-
ics, the bombing during World War I and
the Great “Fiah” of 1666, seemed t
have occurred last week—that those
who managed to keep up with her were
happily exhausted by the end. Many
complained of sore necks, however, aS if
they had been watching a tennis match.
August 27, London to America: Few of
us slept on the way home. “Hamlet
Hardy” had been a memorable journey,
after all, so in our memories it would fis
and fall, like the motion of the sea in OUf
legs after we had made shore. In all we
had sailed 1,786 miles in our circummay”
igation of the British Isles. What was her
name, that young Irishwoman in Joyce’s

Dubliners—Eveline, who froze at the
orld for

last
lived

prospect of leaving her familiar W
a new life, deciding at the very
moment not to board the ship. She
in a different time and place.

 

 

 

 

 

Incoming men and their parents from

the Pensa
chaple rl
Anne and |!
and Chri
SrewarT (/

98) of Bi

(F la.) area were honored ata
n Aug. 16 at the home of
Hart ’63. Pictured are Jodee

rt 68, and Ginger and Jimmy
nts of David °96 and Forrest

noham, Ala.

 

 

 

 

7 = ~seh : .
et ee

emma 5 :

a

 

 

 

 

Hall of Fame inductees Brian
Bell °49 (left) Skeet Chadwick ’74, and Pat
Dennis °78 take the field Sept. 10 during

Hall of Fan
wrestling coach Archie Mathis was honored
posthumou with the others at the seventh

1994 Athlet

weekend at WEL. Former

annual Hall of Fame banquet Sept. 9.

 

 

East ™ .\

dents ] 1m ¢

Carolina chapter co-presi-

n 86 (left) and Kevin

right) welcome Todd Fielder
ips Au

g. 7 reception in Raleigh

And TSOV,
93 lo thi

al :
the home of Anderson’s parents, Mr. and

Mrs. Glenn A,

lE7SON.

Having cake, and eating it too: From left,
San Diego chapter president John Durant
‘90, Wendy Lovell ’91, and Tom Lovell ’91
display the ir frosting handiwork for the
chapter's 14th annual sunset cocktail party
on the sands of the La Jolla Beach and

Tennis Club Aug. 20.

 

Heavy Cy: Celebrating the opening of Cy
Twombly’s exhibit at the Museum of Modern
Artin New York City Sept. 21 were the fol-

lowing luminaries— from left) assistant art
professor Agnes Carbrey; Southern Virginia
College instructor Barbara Crawford; phi-
losophy professor Harry Pemberton; fashion
model Veronica; Cy Twombly; Lexington
photographer Sally Mann; and associate

professor of fine arts Kathleen Olson-Janyic.

 

He'll sing for money: Jane and Howard
Packett ’58 share a musical moment with
Dick Sessoms, WEL’s director of mayor gifts,
during a break from the business of Class
Agents Weekend in Lexington in September.
The Annual Fund has set a $2.7 million
goal for 1994-95.

 

Sunset over San Diego: Among the many
attendees at the La Jolla reception Aug. 20
were (from left) Marie Eackles, Frank Price
‘36, “38L, and Don Eackles ’.

director of alumni programs Rob Mish °76

39. Associate

winged his way out for the festivities from

Lexington.

”
a
od
a)
ad
ra
= -
ae
cel

ere,

 

Lots Cole, widow of former Washington and
Lee president Fred Cole, was a special guest
at the Eastern North Carolina gathering
Aug. 7. Mrs. Cole ts shown with her grand-
son, Gray (whose father is Taylor M. Cole

75) and family friend Kim Hodge.

39

 

Class Notes

7

Edgar J. Spady

turned 91 years old on July 27. He is
active, in good health, and takes no
regular medication.

’
29

Robert Pharr

has been retired from active law

practice for nearly 20 years. He

turned 86 in June and says he is
“just minding my business.”

Walter Pharr

is retired as a command pilot with
American Airlines. He is married
and lives in New York City.

’
33
William H. Flowers Jr.
was honored with the second annual
Freedom Award from the Georgia
Public Policy Foundation for his
contributions to public service. In
accepting the award, he said, “Our
task today is to restore fundamental
beliefs and values, to spread an
understanding of individual respon-
sibility and duty.”

Homer G. Ray Jr.

is retired and lives in Atlanta. He
finished college at Georgia ‘Tech in
1934 after attending W&L for two
years.

Emil L. (Steve) Stevens
recently celebrated his 50th wed-
ding anniversary and is back on the
golf course after an operation on his
left knee.

tani

William W. Fowlkes
is still practicing law as counsel with
the firm of Bobbitt and Halter.

’
37

George W. Lowry

remarried on Valentine’s Day, 1994,

and lives in Clinton, Okla. He had

lunch with classmate Duane Berry

this past spring and occasionally

sees classmate Bill Fishback in

Versailles, Ky.

38

James H. McClure

lives in Mission Hills Country Club
Village in Northbrook, Ill. He had to
leave W&L after three years due to
the Depression and calls 1939 his
“real” class. McClure invites any of
his classmates who come through

the area to free dinner and golf at
the club.

Vernon T. (Dick) Strickler Jr.
retired as president of Strickler-
Dwyer Agency Inc. in June, 43 years
after he founded the company.
Strickler lives in Hampton, Va.

R. Edward Surles

recently returned from a tour of
France. He practices law and runs a
cattle farm in Sommerville, Ga.

’
39

Harold L. (Dick) Fenton Jr.

busies himself with church work,

music, and boasts 27 years’ perfect

attendance with the Kiwanis Club.

He lives in Waterbury, Conn., and

commutes seasonally to Hyannis,
Mass.

Frank Glenn

lives in Hammond, Ore., and is still
active with his farm, Cranguyma
Farms Inc. He believes his two sons
in Washington state want him to
stay at home and writes, “Who
wants to retire? I’d rather interfere!”
A third son lives in Raphine, Va.

Garret Hiers Jr.

made his second hole-in-one after a
long dry spell. He is still delivering

Meals on Wheels and loves it. Hiers
lives in Daytona Beach, Fla.

Joe Lydick

is a general contractor and president
of Lydick and Associates. He lives
in Fort Worth, ‘Texas and is “not
retiring!”

James C. Paera

is still going to the office and assist-
ing activities, sales, and marketing
executives in Washington, D.C. He
was recently elected to the board of
the Washington alumni chapter.

‘40

Jackson G. Akin

recently returned from an Alumni
College trip to China. He says the
group was on its best behavior as a
former rector and several trustees
were in attendance. There were also
several single ladies on the trip, so
classmate Charlie Curl “would have
been in his glory!”

Hamilton (Diz) Disbhrow Jr.
is a volunteer and member of the
Board of ‘Trustees of the Yardley/
Makefield Library. He travels at
least 30 or 40 days a year.

’
4 /

Richard M. Herndon

is back from a three-week tour of

‘Turkey and recommends the trip to

anyone interested in history or good

food. Herndon lives in Winter

Springs, Fla.

Herbert M. Woodward Jr.
continues to manage Growth
Equities, his family’s real estate
development company. He lives in
Charlotte and reports that he
“should have several grandchildren
applicants over the next decade.”

42

John (Jack) Barrie Jr.
attended the W&L Alumni College
Abroad program, “From Hamlet to
Hardy,” a charter cruise through
Denmark, Scotland, Ireland, and
England in August. He lives in
Laguna Beach, Calif.

Evan Alevizatos Chriss

serves as counsel to Gordon,
Fernblatt, Rothman, Hoffberger and
Hollander in Baltimore, having
retired in 1992 after 43 years of
active practice.

‘44

Richard L. Heard

of Arlington, ‘Texas, is still working
but plans to retire by the end of this
year. He and his wife enjoyed see-
ing old friends at his 50th reunion
last May.

‘47

Willard H. Hart

is general chairman for the Genea-
logy/Scottish Cultural Society of
Fort Wayne, Ind. He chaired the
1994 Indiana Highland Games and
is a member of the Courthouse
Copying Team of the Allen County
Genealogy Society.

’
48
Robert T. Bosserman
of Harrisonburg, Va., is retiring next

year after 47 years as a public
accountant in Virginia and Arizona.

Charles R. McDowell Jr.
delivered the commencement
address, “The Last Lecture:
Optimistic,” at Randolph-Macon
College in May. He lives in
Alexandria, Va.

48L

Richard W. Lowery

is semi-retired and living in Kill
Devil Hills, N.C. Lowery has six
grandchildren and enjoys the beach
and fishing of the Outer Banks area.

’
50

William H. Kennedy

enjoys playing tennis, visiting his

children and grandchildren, and

relaxing at his summer home in

Island Park, Idaho.

‘Sa

Fontaine J. Gilliam
retired from Milliken and Co.

January and now enjoys his pa
time work as an industrial |
ing consultant. He lives in
Spartanburg, S.C.

  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
    
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
 
    

Thomas C. Martin
retired as senior vice presiden
Commerce Bank in January,
moving to a farm in Scottsyill,

Richard B. Taylor
published his 10th local histe

book about the Moulin Rouge’
Resort, the first interracial hor
Nevada, which opened its doo
1956 to both blacks and whites
lives in Las Vegas.

’
52

Thomas G. Gardner 3

and his son took a motorcycle.

Milwaukee, Wis., for Harley-[

son’s 90th birthday celebratio:

year. He lives in Woodbridge,

Harry J. Grim ;
has returned to Charlotte afte
years as general counsel and
executive vice president of
NationsBank in Dallas. He is;
counsel to Moore and Van
where he practiced law for

Lawrence L. Gubelli
is a retired police officer and f
master and enjoys travelling wi
wife, Jean. The couple lives in”
Island Park, N.Y., and have f
children and twelve grandck

Dr. Echols A. Hansbarger
lives in Charleston, W.Va., and
sul practicing medicine. ;

Helmut H. Huber
and his wife, Anna, retired to
home in Guatemala in August.

Paul D. Weill
has been retired since May 19
has three married children an
fourth still at home. He does
travelling and visits with Bot
Maccubbin °53 and family in!
Carolina and New York. Weill
in Weatogue, Conn.

S2L

Joseph B. Yanity Jr. |
was inducted into the Ohio

School Athletic Association
Fame in Columbus last June.
lives in Athens.

’

oe
Owen B. Fuqua Jr.
retired in April after spending
past 23 years with the Johns
Hopkins University Hospital

“a

  

diatric cardiology division admin-
for the school of medicine in
paltimore. He plans to spend his
leisure time expanding his book,
music, and film collections, and pur-
suing such projects as computerizing
the family genealogical records,
photography, woodworking, piano
study, and gardening.

jstrator

Robert /. Goodman

is employee health benefits manag-
er for the Manatee County (F la.)
government. His program, F ree-
dom of Choice to Healthy Habits,
was selected for a NACO Achieve-
ment Award. He is also the proud
grandfather of three grandchildren.

John D. Heard

js in his eighth year as a General
Motors dealer in Terrell, ‘Texas,
after taking early retirement from
the French oil company Elf
Aquitane.

Samuel K. Patton

was re-elected town supervisor for
in East Fishkill, Dutchess County,
N.Y. He is an adjunct professor of
computer science at Marist College.

William E. Rawlings
“unretired” again last January to
become president and publisher of
three weekly newspapers in Maine:
The Maine Times, Casco Bay Weekly,
and The Penny Saver. He notes that
at 62, he is 30 years above the medi-
an age of his employees. Rawlings
lives in Kennebunkport.

Dr. Theron (Ted) Rolston

is partially retired from the practice
of medicine. He and his wife, Sara,
live in Wheeling, W.Va.

’

54
Dr. Arthur H. Williams Jr.
retired from the pastorate of the
Presbyterian Church in July. He
lives in Richmond.

S4L

Harry J. Grim
See °52.

The Hon. Alvin Y. Milberg
retired last year as the highest rank-
ing state Superior Court judge in
Monmouth County, N.J. He lives in
Monmouth Beach.

The Hon. Frank M. Whiting
feceived the Charles “Doc” Matson
Award from the Venice-Nokomis
tary Club in recognition of his
Sutstanding community service and
leadership. He lives in Venice, Fla.

55

J; .
Wi Mliam H. Bartsch
,
Ctired from the International

Labour Office in 1992 and has since
worked as a consultant on human
resources planning for governments
of developing countries. He also
researches and writes military histo-
ry, specializing on the war in the
Pacific from 1941 to 1945. He lives
in Novato, Calif.

Dr. Watson A. Bowes Jr.

is professor of obstetrics and gyne-
cology at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill.

56

Dr. Charles E. Dobbs

is senior partner in a private prac-
tice, specializing in hematology and
oncology. He lives in Louisville, Ky.

Dr. Samuel A. Syme Jr.
teaches history at Coastal Carolina
University and serves on the Horry
County Commission of Higher
Education. He is also a licensed
eucharistic minister at Trinity Epis-
copal Church in Myrtle Beach, S.C.

’
57
Lenox B. (Buck) Buchanan Jr.
is retired as vice president of H.].
Heinz Co. in Pittsburgh. He and his
wife, Marsha, moved to Annapolis,
Md., to spend more time sailing,
fishing, rowing, and exploring. ‘They
spend summers in Harbert, Mich.,
on the shores of Lake Michigan.

Paul R. Speckman Jr.

was appointed to the board of the
San Diego chapter of the American
Association of Individual Investors,
a non-profit corporation that assists
individuals in becoming effective
asset managers through programs of
information, education, and research
in the securities market.

58

Dr. J. Gill Holland

won Davidson College’s Omicron
Delta Kappa Teaching Award in
April. Holland spends much of his
time researching his eclectic inter-
ests in Scandinavian art and litera-
ture, Chinese literature, 19th- and
20th-century English literature,
19th-century American literature,
and photography.

Joseph S. Lewis IV

lives in Pensacola, Fla., and remains
active as an elder in his local church.
He is also still playing the trumpet
in both church and jazz groups.

59

Dr. George N. Lockie
continues in a pediatric practice
with six partners in Escondido,
Poway, and ‘Temecula, Calif. He
recently retired from Children’s

Sweet Things

Charles A. Sweet ’36 leaves a lasting impression on you
with his kind manner and his easy grace. I came to know
Charlie and his wife, Cecelia, by way of their annual journeys
through Lexington at Homecoming as they move their resi-
dence from Vermont to Florida. At our Five-Star Generals
gatherings, Charlie, once a very savvy and distinguished
banker, beguiles everyone with his quick wit and engaging sto-
ries. He also relishes the little things that give life meaning.

Possessed of the patience and skill to work with his hands
to craft miniatures of soldiers in full regalia, Charlie and his
self-created collection have been profiled in 7he Wa// Street
Journal and Newsweek. With Cecelia, Charlie has a passion for
fly-fishing and regularly travels to the big-sky country of
Montana in search of prized trout. These simple pleasures—
founded on an appreciation for order, discipline, and contem-
plation—seem to me to be related to Charlie’s Washington and
Lee and mine. |

What truly sets W&L apart is its unique history and its hal-
lowed values and traditions that are really quite simple in their
manifestation. Something as relatively “small” as a greeting
from a passing student—an exercise in civility—has led to our
speaking tradition. Our Honor Code, based on General Lee’s
simple rule that his men be “gentlemen,” has guided genera-
tions of students since. ‘The basic symmetry of the Colonnade’s
architecture conveys a sense of order along with an apprecia-
tion of the fact that true elegance is best achieved through sim-
plicity. The cumulative effect of these small things is an almost
ineffable “large” thing—the Washington and Lee ethos.

In Charlie’s beautifully written letters to me over the
years, his intuitive understanding of the University’s ethos has
helped shape my own appreciation for it. Best of all, Charlie
does not just write about such values and traditions, he lives
them every day. General Lee would be proud of his example.

Finally, Charlie does not take for granted that his W&L
will always be here as it is today. He has engaged in a series of
arrangements that provide immediate benefits to him and ulti-
mately to Washington and Lee so as to leave a legacy of love
and commitment. Typically, he has chosen to endow a fund at
the Leyburn Library that will provide for many, many “small”
benefactions resulting ultimately in one very large enhance-
ment—a superb collection that will benefit students and facul-
ty members alike for all time to come. Through Charlie’s life
and legacy, the best of Washington and Lee will endure.

David R. Long
Director of Planned and Capital Giving

41

 

p | | Ky |
Like most clergy, Peter Doyle °54, pastor of ‘Trinity Presbyterian
Church in Opelika, Ala., Knows the value of a good sermon: Don’t

browbeat the listener, and above all, tell a good story. He also believes

that teaching good, old-fashioned moral values to children and

 

Js
PETER REESE DOYLE

Doyle and his Daring family: “I wish I'd started this 40 years ago.”

teenagers will prove to be a worthwhile investment later in life.

Unlike many clergy, however, Doyle has another medium to deliv-
er his message. Away from the pulpit, he has written seven children’s
books in the Daring Adventure Series. Published by Focus on the
amily out of Colorado, the books are reminiscent of the Hardy Boys
and Nancy Drew mysteries, only with a Christian subtext. “Some-
times I get so caught up in the action of the stories that | forget to
have my characters pray,” Doyle says by phone from Germany, where
he is pushing a theological manuscript at the Frankfurt Book Fair.

“But I want these books to be attractive to non-religious people
too,” he adds. “I’m not after any quick conversions, | want people to
get new hope from these characters, maybe make a new turn 1n life.”

Apparently, his books are finding plenty of new converts. ‘lo date,
there are 250,000 in print, and Doyle has contracted to write six more.
“IT just spin the ideas out of my head,” he explains. “hey are the out-
pourings of a fundamentally frivolous mind.”

Doyle developed his skills as a storyteller while driving his chil-
dren to school. Years later his daughter suggested that he write these
stories down, “for my grandchildren’s sake.” Although grandchild-less
at the time (he now has two), Doyle complied, and the result was the
first adventure of the intrepid Daring family, Amdushed in Africa, pub-
lished in 1989. “In this family, the teens are raised with wisdom, not
foolishness,” he explains. “They are taught principles like loyalty,
teamwork, courage, and respect for others. I try to present boys and
girls that can take care of themselves; boys who show honor and
respect toward girls, and girls who are accomplished but still feminine.
| also want to show what a great place the world can be with an appre-
ciation for other races, nations, and cultures.”

Doyle believes that positive influences early on can have a tremen-
dous impact on young people. “At W&L, men like Deans Leyburn
and Gilliam befriended me and changed me,” he recalls (James
Leyburn, in fact, was best man at Doyle’s wedding). “hey were such
models for responsible manhood. ‘They made me realize how adults
can change your life by taking responsibility for your development.”

One habit formed at W&L that has stuck with Doyle is his ability
to do his best thinking in burger joints. Every Saturday, he heads to
the Opelika Burger King with his laptop in hand. “I began studying in
the Liquid Lunch while in Lexington,” he says, “and I’ve written in
restaurants ever since.” —By William Cocke ’82

42

Hospital in San Diego. He became a
first-time grandfather in June.

60

Paul A. Abry

spent 22 years in advertising in New
York and Chicago with Young and
Rubicam and six years as owner/
operator of a mail service business in
Chicago. He is now “winding down”
and works as supervisor of the mail
room at the Raymond F. Kravis
Center for the Performing Arts in
West Palm Beach, Fla.

Dr. Rardon D. Bevill Ill
is “relocating to the West.” He cur-
rently lives in Fort Collins, Colo.

Charles S. (Chick) Chamberlin
retired from Aetna Life & Casualty
and lives in Simsbury, Conn. He is
an investment officer in real estate
finance with Connecticut Mutual
Life Insurance. Last March,
Chamberlin spent a day skiing at
Mc. Snow, Vt., with classmate Rob
‘Vodd and their wives.

Oliver 1. Cook

recently got a hole-in-one during a
tournament at the Ferncroft
Country Club in Danvers, Mass.,
sponsored by the North Shore
Chamber of Commerce. He hit a
nine iron on the par 3, 160-yard
sixth hole to win a 1994 Ford
‘Thunderbird. Cook is an attorney
with Pearl, McNiff, Crean, Cook &
Sheehan in Peabody.

Wickliffe Hollingshead

has been recognized for providing
the best investment performance for
balanced accounts by Wheat, First
Butcher Singer in Philadelphia. He
is vice president and investment
officer for the Logan Square office.

William B. Young Jr.

lives in Jasper, Ala., and is adver-
tising and marketing manager for
Fontaine ‘Trailer Co. in Haleyville.

OOL,

B. Bayles Mack

and his wife, Joanne, have four
grandchildren under the age of 4.
His son, Barron B. Mack Jr., prac-
tices law with him, and his daughter,
Elizabeth Mack Reigel, works as
psychologist in the same law office.
Mack lives in Fort Mill, S.C.

Paul R. Speckman Jr.

See °57.

‘61

David F. Cook

is owner and publisher of Sunshine
Artist, a national monthly arts and
crafts magazine. Cook lives and

  

publishes the magazine jn Winte
Park, Fla. .

Edward J. Gay II]

retired from a big law firm litigation
practice at age 55 and now Pursues
personal business and practices ali
tle law on his own: “It’s a great i
life!” He lives in New Orleans,

62

The Hon. Charles R. Butler
Jr.

was clevated to chief judge for the
Southern District of Alabama. He is
a member of the 11th Circuir
Judicial Council and the Criminal
Law Committee of the Judicial
Conference of the United States.
Butler also serves as vice president
of the District Judges Association of
the 11th Circuit.

Dr. Robert P. Carroll Jr.

has been appointed to an American
Medical Association task force,
“Study of the Federation,” a two-
year study to recommend mecha-
nisms which will improve relations
among physician organizations as
well as suggesting methods to
improve the overall efficiency and
effectiveness of organized medicine.
He lives in Nacogdoches, Texas.

Dr. Stephen R. Chernay
continues to practice pediatrics in
Fishkill, N.Y. He also raises and
races thoroughbred horses.

Alan M. Corwin
and his wife, Robin, celebrated their
25th wedding anniversary with a
garden party fund-raiser for the
North ‘Thurston Schools’ Eduea-
tional Foundation, of which Corwin
is president. He is also treasurer of
Congressman Mike Kreidler’s re-
election campaign. ‘The Corwins
live in Olympia, Wash.

7. Grantham Couch

is associate professor of business at
Western State College of Colorado ~~

:

and lives in Mt. Crested Butte.

Thorns Craven

has been appointed an adjunct pro-
fessor at the Babcock School of
Management at Wake Forest
University, teaching negotiations @
executive MBA students. He also
works as an attorney and mediator

Ek. Montgomery (Monty)
Tucker

has joined the FDIC after a 20-year”
career with the Department of
Justice. He is currently in Dallas é
where he is counsel and office ch ;
of the professional liability sectom s
litigation office. Daughter Cou

is a junior at W&L and is one of
three co-chairs for the 1996 Mock
Convention.

 

  

64
Andre

vid J. chase las
pe emi-retired and living in Kansas
oy Mo. He will work for his firm’s
or {| accept some assign-

anc
yccessor
nts through Of Counsel Inc.

pbert (Bob) Fussell
wver dealing primarily with
jirigation. He lives with his wife,
Patricia, in LeRoy, N.Y., and has
four children.

E.R

jsala

pr. Kenneth E. Greer
was elected chairman of the depart-
ment of dermatology at the Univer-
sity of Virginia School of Medicine.

‘64L

Stanley Fink

was elected chairman of the board of
directors of the Marietta College
Alumni Association for a second
term. He lives in Clark, N.J.

65

Andrew C. Kilpatrick

has written a book titled Of
Permanent Value: The Story of Warren
Buffett, published in September.
The book contains 648 pages and 65
photos about America’s richest man.
Kilpatrick lives in Birmingham.

Dr. George M. Sanders

of Cherry Hill, N.J., has a son,
Geoff, who is graduating from the
University of Scranton and hoping
to go to graduate school in wetlands
management. Daughter Jody is a
freshman at Princeton University.

65L

William D. (Andy) Anderson
is looking forward to seeing class-
mates at his 30th reunion next May.
Daughter Kate graduated from
W&L this past June, and his son,
Zeb, graduated from the University
of Virginia Law School in May.
Anderson lives in Annandale, Va.

‘66L

Richard L.. Farr

retired from the Air Force as a
colonel and joined the firm of
Palmer and Dodge to practice gov-
€rnment contract law in Boston. He
lives in Concord, Mass., with his
wife, Rahsri, and two Welsh Corgis.

;
67

Walter J. Borda

has been appointed manager of the

international practice group at the

aw firm of Howard & Howard in

Bloomfield Hills, Mich. He is a

aa Partner and responsible for

e errs the firm’s international
siness-related legal activities.

jm

J. McDaniel (Mac) Holladay
moved to Atlanta last year as chief
operating officer of the Governor's
Development Council of Georgia, a
partnership charged with creating a
new economic development strate-
gy for the state. He has previously
directed the state economic devel-
opment programs for South Carolina
and Mississippi. He lives in Atlanta
with his wife, Susan Maxwell.

Edward (Bob) Robertson Jr.
moved from the product and mar-
keting office to strategic studies for
the Ford Motor Co. of Europe. Ford
has 3,000 European dealerships. He
reports that his wife, Barbara, and
children, Sandra and ‘Thomas, are
well. He lives in Germany.

Bradford A. Rochester

is a substance abuse counselor with
the Danville-Pittsylvania Mental
Health Services Board in Danville,
Va. He enjoyed seeing the Generals’
lacrosse team crush Guilford
College by a 17-1 score.

67L

David J. Andre
See '64.

’

68
Dr. Paul C. Atwater
greatly enjoys participating in com-
munity theater and local acting
classes on top of his usual roles as
practicing physician and father of
two boys. He has appeared in 7o Ki//
a Mockingbird, Dial “M” For Murder,
Five Finger Piece, and The Prisoner Of
Second Avenue, as well as commercial
and related audition work. He lives
in Atlanta.

Richard T. Clapp

returned to Wells Fargo Bank as
senior vice president in charge of
nationwide business development
efforts for the bank’s corporate
banking division. He lives in
Madison, N.J., with his wife, Ellen,
and daughter, Kathryn.

Howard L. Mocerf

has become a partner in the law firm
of Seigel, Lynn & Capitel Ltd. in
Northbrook, III. Most of his work is
in labor and employment law.

Sidney B. Rosenberg

is a professor of real estate and
finance at the University of North
Florida. He recently spent six
months in Riga, Latvia, on a
Fulbright exchange. He lives in
Jacksonville.

Charles B. Tomm

is vice president, chief financial
officer, and general counsel with
Coggin-O’Steen Cos., based in
Jacksonville, Fla.

Guy M. Townley

loved visiting Lexington for his
daughter Katherine’s cum /aude grad-
uation from W&L. He lives in
Oklahoma City.

’

69
Theodore J. Duncan IIl
and his wife, Sharon, celebrated
their 25th wedding anniversary in
June. The couple has three chil-
dren, Sarah, Judson, and Michael,
and live in Oklahoma City.

Harold F. (Gally) Gallivan
l/l

has been named a partner in the
Greenville (S.C.) office of J.C.
Bradford & Co. He was a senior vice
president with S.C. National Bank
before joining the investment firm
in 1986.

O9L

Daniel 8. Hall

took a position with Donald
Trump’s organization in West Palm
Beach, Fla., after 18 years as senior
vice president of Bessemer ‘Trust.

’

70
Dr. Terry Gardner Austin
has expanded his psychology prac-
tice with the addition of two thera-
pists and an office manager. He
recently returned from studying at
the C.G. Jung Institute in Zurich,
Switzerland, and continues his inter-
est in music composition on the
piano. He lives in Acworth, Ga.

Dr. Charles P. Cowell Ill

is an analytical chemist with the
California Air Resources Board. His
wife is completing her residency in
Ob/Gyn at UC-Davis and will work
for Kaiser Permanente. ‘The couple
lives in Fair Oaks, Calif.

James C. McETroy
is director of portfolio management
at First NBC Corp. in New Orleans.

Walter L. Sales

lives in Louisville with his wife,
Susan, and daughters, Emily and
Stephanie. He is a partner with the
law firm of Ogden, Newell &
Welch, and specializes in labor and
employment law for management.

Donald C. Smith

is a senior environmental planner
with Sverdrup Civil Inc. and was
transferred to the Phoenix office
from Tallahassee, Fla.,last year. He
has assumed responsibility as man-
ager of planning.

TOL

E. Montgomery (Monty)

Tucker
See '62.

’

/1
Charles J. (Jack) Cartwright
is president of Southern Bedding
Co. Inc. and lives with his wife,
Stella, and two daughters, Emily
and Sarah, in Macon, Ga. Emily is a
freshman at W&L.

Arthur F. Cleveland Il

is president of Cleveland-White
Real Estate Co. in Spartanburg, S.C.
He was recently elected to the
Spartanburg County Foundation
Board. He and his wife, Polly Ann,
have three children, Christopher,
Cameron, and Melonye.

Dr. Andrew Kumpuris

met with President Clinton in May
as a member of the Physician
Leadership Committee for Health
Care Reform. He lives in Little
Rock, Ark., and is medical director
of the coronary care and cardiac
step-down unit at St. Vincent
Infirmary Medical Center.

Harry D. (Buddy) LeTourneau
Jr.

has been appointed president and
CEO of Staff Leasing, Florida’s
largest employee leasing firm. He
lives in Palmetto.

Dr. D. Downs Little

and his wife, Mary Margaret, moved
to Florence, S.C., last year. Little
works in an internal medicine prac-
tice. The couple enjoys the beach,
tennis, golf, and visiting family and
friends in the Blue Ridge and
Alleghenies.

Stephen D. Rosenthal

has joined the firm of Mays and
Valentine in Richmond, where his
areas of practice are in health-care
and governmental relations. He is a
former attorney general for the
Commonwealth of Virginia.

Dr. Jeffrey B. Spence

served as an on-air guest host for the
1994 auction for WCVE, the public
TV station in Richmond. The cam-
paign raised $228,000 for public
television in central Virginia.

Calvert S. Whitehurst

is manager of public affairs in the
Washington (D.C.) office of ‘Textron
Inc. He traveled to Sweden and
Norway last summer.

TIL

Walter J. Borda
See °67.

’

72
Lee N. Eisen
and his wife, Roxanne, have three
children, Seth, Sara, and Ben. Eisen
is a vice president of the Bank of
New York. After nine years as an

elected official, he decided not to
run for re-election to the Springfield
‘Township Committee. ‘The family
lives in Springfield, N.J.

E.P. (Phil) Harvey

is president of the American
Hereford Association. He was also
appointed to a second term on the
New Mexico State Fair Commission
last January. Harvey operates a
farming and ranching business and
lives in Mesilla, N.M., with his wife,
Carlitta, and three children, Eliza-
beth, Phillip III, and Margaret.

’

73
Jeffrey C. Burris
was ordained deacon in the South
Indiana Conference of the United
Methodist Church in June. He
serves as an associate pastor at
Bethany United Methodist Church
in Indianapolis and continues to
practice social security disability law
part time. He and his wife, Nancy,
have two sons, Ethan and Noah.

T. Haller Jackson Ill

lives in Shreveport, La., and served
as chairman of the disciplinary board
of the Louisiana State Bar Associ-
ation from 1993 to 1994.

Ronald A. Pen

was added to the University of
Kentucky Alumni Association’s list
of Great ‘Teachers in April. Pen was
cited for his expertise, teaching
techniques, kindness, and generosi-
ty of spirit. He is an associate profes-
sor of music in Lexington.

Albert Preston IIl

lives in Kansas City, Mo., and has
written a children’s book, 7hAree Seas
(a Christopher Columbus Counting
Book.), published by Winston-
Derek of Nashville.

‘bh

J. Ridgely Porter Ill

was elected chairman of the
Chesapeake (Va.) Hospital
Authority, which manages and con-
trols Chesapeake General Hospital
and its subsidiaries.

Kenneth J. Wernick

has been named assistant general
counsel in ethics for the Depart-
ment of the Navy. He lives in
Fairfax Station, Va., with his wife,
Sharyl, and son, Kyle.

’

/4
William D. Adams IV
lives in Roanoke. He had a great
time at his 20th Reunion in May
and writes, “Three boos to Bob Doll
for not showing up.”

William K. Brooks
finished second with Ken Mink Jr.
°75 in the Huntingdon Valley (Pa.)

44

Country Club Member-Guest
‘Tournament last year. He also saw
classmate Dean Golumbeski and
met Dean’s buddy, Eric Lindros, of
the Philadelphia Flyers last fall.

Dean J. Golembeski

of ‘Torrington, Conn., was appointed
director of public relations at Sacred
Heart University in Fairfield. He
was previously public relations
director for the River Group, an
entertainment marketing company
based in Westport.

John E. Lane lll

is an attorney focusing on estate
planning and administration and is
starting a mini-warehouse facility in
Altavista, Va. Last spring, Lane set a
hang-gliding altitude gain record of
5,100 feet over ‘Tobacco Row Moun-
tain in Elon, Va. He and his wife,
Kathy, have two children, Mark and
Diana.

William R. Melton IV

works for the Museum and White
House of the Confederacy in
Richmond. He is editor of the
museum’s newsletter and is also in
charge of its computers and donor
database system.

Geoffrey N. Nolan

enjoyed seeing his SAE fraternity
brothers and others at Reunion
Weekend in May. He adds that
Berke Wilson ’75 and David ‘Tyler
’82 continue to prosper with Wilson
and Nolan, the Atlanta-based real
estate firm.

’

75
Randy L. Flink
is president of Championship
Financial Advisors, a consulting firm
which advises professional athletes
and coaches on money matters. He
has two children, Mason and
Alexander, and lives in Dallas.

Donald D. Hogle

was recently promoted to director of
retail advertising for Chemical Bank
in New York City.

Karl E. Klinger

retired from the Navy in August and
has joined the Equitable Cos. in its
Virginia Beach office.

Louis A. LeLaurin 111

is an attorney member of the Board
of Governors of the Commercial
Law League of America. He lives in
San Antonio, ‘Texas.

Kenneth L. Mink Jr.
See William Brooks °74.

C. Berkeley Wilson Il
See Geoffrey Nolan °74.

Irvin E. Wolfson

has taken a new position as a senior
account representative for MCI. He
lives in Grand Rapids, Mich.

T5L

Charles B. Tomm
See '68.

’
76

Dr. Ben R. Barton

practices cardiac surgery in Nash-

ville. He has two children, Ben
Reed and Margaret Stewart.

John G. Berry

is a partner in the law firm of Berry
and Early in Madison and Stanards-
ville, Va. He has three daughters,

Anne Garland, Meredith, and Laura.

William E. Garrison Ill
recently accepted a position with
Godsey & Gibb Associates, an
investment management firm in
Richmond. He is involved with
client servicing and research.

C. Freemont (Monty) Higgins
Jr.

has been hired as finance director
for the city of Lexington, Va. He
served as the finance director of
Staunton and Buena Vista for 14
years and as Staunton city manager
for two years.

B. Craig Owens

was recently named president of
Coca-Cola Beverages S.A., the
French bottling subsidiary of the
Coca-Cola Co. He lives in Le
Vesinet, France.

Peyton A. Via

and his wife, Karen, enjoy chasing
their little son, Anderson, around
the house. He left his retail job to
renovate his grandmother’s house,
in which he and his family now live
in Virginia Beach: “It will be a long
and adventuresome project.”

76L

Stephen D. Rosenthal
See °71.

William A. Worthington

joined the Houston office of Stras-
burger & Price as a partner. He
practices in general litigation with
an emphasis on product liability and
insurance-related matters.

’
//

William F. Beauchamp

is president of the Preferred

Appraisal Group, an appraisal firm

specializing in residential real

estate, located in Baltimore.

William J. Cople Ill

has been appointed general counsel
of the National Capital Area Council
of the Boy Scouts of America. He
lives in Alexandria, Va.

H. Denny Gaultney
was appointed to a two-year term on

  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

the National Fluid Milk Proce
Promotion Board. He owns
operates Skinners’ Dairy I
processor and distributor of ¢
products in Jacksonville, Fla.
and his wife, Sarah, have th

dren, Betsy, Walker, and Billy

Randolph J. Kramer
was promoted to senior vice pre
dent of customer operations
Centennial Savings Bank in _
Cincinnati. Kramer and his wif,
Sally, have been married for 17
years and have a dog, Misty,

James C. Root
is construction services directo,
nationwide real estate investy

trust based in Santa Fe, N.M_-

Dr. James U. Scott
completed a fellowship in beh
ioral and developmental pedia
at the Medical College of Vir
He recently joined the faculr
University of South Florida C
of Medicine in Tampa. His an
wife, Susan, have three childr
Becky, Jonathan and Katherir

Douglas A. Scovanner
is chief financial officer of Day
Hudson Corp. in Minneapolis

Samuel E. Thompson
is a senior mortgage lending o
with Allatoona Federal Saving
the Atlanta area. .

’
78

Dr. M. Daniel Becque

was awarded fellow status int

American College of Sports }
cine. He lives in Carbondal

William M. Ewing Jr.
is president of Compass Envir
mental Inc. in Marietta, Ga. —

The Rev. John D. Herma
is pastor of the Bethlehem Lt
Church in Lynchburg, Va.

Gerald L. (Jerry) Maatm
Jr. *
continues to play in amateur g
tournaments when not practic
law in Chicago or teaching pa
as an adjunct professor of li
Northwestern University.

Dr. Robert.N. Mucciola
moderated an Ethics in Medi
Conference titled “Medical, L
and Ethical Considerations in
Pregnancy.” Alumni participa
included Judge Douglas M. 5)
°51, °53L, Watson A. Bowes Jr
and Teresa R. Warner *84L.
lives in Newport News, Va.

Ryland R. Owen
is teaching history at Georget
Preparatory School and living
Bethesda, Md. He also plays 4
coaches soccer.

  

Robert ©. Peery Jr.

js director of business planning and
development with the Pinkerton
Group. He lives in Richmond with
his wife, Laura, and their children,
Camp. Madelyn, and Elizabeth.

Sreven C. Yeakel

has established a government rela-
rions consulting firm that serves
clients desiring assistance in small
association management and strate-
gies for Montana’s 1995 legislature.
He lives with his wife, Beth, and
their three children, Katherine, Joe,
and Sarah in Helena, Mont.

7SL

Jean L. Byassee

has recently become of counsel to
the law firm Dobbins & Venick and
continues to practice in the area of
health-care law in Nashville.

79

Robert M. Burkholder Jr.

is senior claims counsel at Environ-
mental Claims Administrators in
Exton, Pa. He and his wife, Kit, and
daughters, Mollie and Caroline, live
in Unionville, Pa., with their golden
retrievers, cats and other critters.

Dean S. Greenberg

is president of Greenberg &
Associates, a money management
firm and full service discount bro-
kerage started in 1988. Greenberg
also hosts his own call-in financial
talk show, “Money Matters,” on
Tucson’s top-rated station. He and
his wife, Mel, have a son, Matthew.

Richard B. Makov

works as an attorney with the
Japanese law firm Anderson Mori in
Tokyo, to which his U.S. firm has
seconded him from its Brussels,
Belgium office. His specialty is
international commercial transac-
tions.

Charles C. Smith 111

is copy editor of the Omaha (Neb.)

World-Herald. Smith served as class
chairman at Reunion Weekend last
May and had a “fantastic” time.

Dr. Reid D. Taylor

feports that his snake breeding busi-
hess is doing well in Asheville, N.C.
He recently collected specimens in
Belize and will travel to Peru in

1996 to gather more.

Dr. George L. H. Ward
Practices emergency medicine in
Gulfport, Miss. He is “married to a
Hollins girl and lives on the beach.”

80

Andrew W. Bodenstab
a8 joined ‘T'rea’Tek-CRA Co. as
iector of marketing and business

development. ‘The company utilizes
on-site treatment technologies to
remediate Superfund sites. He lives
in Saratoga Springs, N.Y.

Lawrence H. Bryant

has joined the Portland (Me.) law
firm of Bernstein, Shur, Sawyer and
Nelson. He works in the firm’s com-
mercial department and concen-
trates his practice in corporate, com-
mercial real estate, banking and
health-care transactions. Bryant lives
in Cumberland Center with his
wife, Katherine.

Christopher B. Burnham

is a candidate for state treasurer in
Connecticut and was endorsed at
the 1994 Republican State Conven-
tion. He is vice president of corpo-
rate finance at Advest Inc. From
1987 to 1992, he served as state rep-
resentative for the 147th District.

Goetz B. Eaton

joined Coopers & Lybrand as a tax
manager in the Boston office. He
specializes in consulting on interna-
tional tax issues, including inter-
company transfer pricing.

Angus E. Finney

is in his third year as CEO and man-
aging attorney in the law office of
Finney & Baer, a business law and
litigation firm in ‘Towson, Md.

E. Hubbard (Hub) Kennady
I/1

was elected a second term as city
councilman in College Station,
‘Texas, with 72 percent of the vote.
He and his wife, Monta, celebrated
their daughter Jennings Randolph’s
first birthday in July.

Peter C. Kingsbery

has been promoted to senior manag-
er in Price Waterhouse’s Philadel-
phia office. He works in the design
and implementation of software in
financial and operational areas.

Russell B. Parmele Jr.

has been promoted to general man-
ager of the 420,000 sq. ft. Koger
Office Center in Brentwood, ‘Tenn.
He lives in Hermitage with his wife,
Diane, and children, Bo and Hanne.

Stephen V. Siana

practices in the corporate, real
estate, municipal and estate plan-
ning areas with Siana & Shields in
Exton, Pa. He lives in Chester
Springs with his wife, Carol, and his
two daughters, Allison and Ashley.

Bruce W. Whipple

is a consultant for Arthur Andersen
and Co.’s real estate services group
in New York City. He is also alumni
coordinator and editor of a newslet-
ter for the real estate development
program at Columbia University. He
lives in Riverdale, N.Y.

The 19th Hole

It’s no coincidence that longtime Washington and Lee golf
coach Buck Leslie ’49 decided to retire following the Generals’
victory in last spring’s Old Dominion Athletic Conference

championship. ‘The champi-

 

onship marked a perfect end
to a coaching career that
spanned 34 years.

“I had been seriously
thinking about retiring,” says
Leslie, “and that really
helped make up my mind. If
I had any doubts, they were
over with then. They were a
good group to go out with.”

1994 graduate Jimmy Kull,
who played on two ODAC

 

 

 

championship teams for

 

Leslie, says of his mentor:
Buck Leslie ’49 is headed for the
clubhouse after a 34-year career.

“When he was our age he
was fighting a war, and here
we are complaining about the
green conditions. ... Coach Leslie showed me there’s a mental
side to golf. He’s what W&L is all about—tradition.”

Leslie was honored on Homecoming weekend with a cock-
tail party at the Alumni House and the athletic department ts
planning a special ceremony to honor him in December. “I'll
miss the competition and I’ll miss the association with the
young men and my colleagues,” says Leslie, who will remain
on the W&L faculty through the fall semester.

Leslie joined the Washington and Lee staff in 1960 as an
assistant football coach and served as the University’s head
football coach from 1968 to 1972. He became head golf coach
in 1975 after serving as an assistant to legendary coach and ath-
letic director Cy ‘'wombly.

The former W&L baseball standout had a hand in some of
the greatest moments in W&L athletics. He served as an assis-
tant football coach for W&L’s great squads in the early 1960s,
including the 1961 team that went 9-0 and received the Wash-
ington Touchdown Club’s ‘Timmie Award as the outstanding
small college team in the nation. As golf coach, he led the
Generals to 20 consecutive winning seasons, a record seven
ODAC championships, and five NCAA Division III playoff ap-
pearances.

Leslie cherishes all of those moments, but was most pleased
to be able to serve Washington and Lee. “I was very fortunate
to be in an area I liked to be in,” he says. “My greatest single
thrill was to be hired back to my @/ma mater.”—By Brian Logue

’

S]
Channing M. Hall lll
won a seat on the Williamsburg
(Va.) City Council in May, following
in the footsteps of his father and
grandfather. Channing practices law
with the firm of Hale & Hall.

SO1L

Buckner P. (Buck) Wellford
won the Republican primary for
county commissioner in Shelby
County, Tenn., in May. He did not
face opposition in the Aug. 4 general
election. He is a partner in the law
firm of Thomason, Hendrix,
Harvey, Johnson, & Mitchell.

’

S2
Ricardo F. Casellas
is a devoted triathlete and a partner
at Fiddler, Gonzalez and Rodriguez
in San Juan, P.R. His practice focus-
es on federal trial and appellate civil
litigation. He has three children,
Ricardo, Patricia, and Carolina.

John D. Harris Jr.

has been named controller at JON
Realty Corp. in Atlanta. His duties
include coordinating all internal and
external financial reporting, devel-
oping and maintaining management
information systems, and supervis-
ing day-to-day accounting activities.

Benjamin F. Jarratt ll

and his wife, Shelby, have just
opened their third Burger King
restaurant in seven months. The
restaurants are located in Reston,
Leesburg, and Fairfax, Va.

Douglas R. Linton IIl
facilitates communications training
for Signal Corps officers as a senior
small group leader with the Army at
Fort Gordon in Augusta, Ga. His
training ranges from automation to
digitization of the battlefield to
satellites, and he works closely with
classmate Scott Crawford.

David C. Tyler
See Geoffrey Nolan °74.

Dr. John A. (Jack) Wells I1l
lives in Columbia, S.C., with his
wife, Muffie, and children, Whaley,
John, and Christopher. He practices
ophthalmology with his father.

J. Franklin Williams

has taken a position with World
Vision, a Christian international
relief and development organiza-
tion, in Lubumbashi, Zaire.

Robert A. Willis

received his M.S. in real estate from
New York University last Decem-
ber. He continues to work as a con-
struction project manager for
McBride Enterprises, a real estate
developer in Bergen County, N.J.

46

John P. Winans

has joined the Adam Network, an
asset Management company in
Adianta. He is their wholesaler for
the mid-Atlantic region.

Robert K. Wittpenn

has been promoted to president of
Rockland Corp. The company is
engaged in the formulation, packag-
ing, marketing, and distribution of
products for home lawns and gar-
dens, trees, commercial landscapes,
and other specialty businesses.

’

S3
Mark H. Anderson
and his wife, Joanne, recently
moved to Richmond, where he is
national accounts manager for BOC
Gases. The couple celebrated the
first birthday of their daughter,
Andrea, in July.

Dr. Stephen P. Geary

just finished his residency in ortho-
pedic surgery. He and his wife, Keri
Hinrichs Geary °89, moved to
Manhattan, where Geary is complet-
ing a 12-month knee and shoulder
fellowship.

Thomas C. Gentner Jr.
lives in Baltimore with his wife,
Mary, and children, ‘T'y and Blake.

D. Stephen Jones Jr.

is a vice president with First Union
Bank in Charlotte. He recently
joined the bank’s new commercial
real estate finance group.

Patrick C. Jordan

practices law in Matamoros, Mexico,
for the firm of Bryan, Gonzalez
Vargas y Gonzalez BAZ. S.C.

Dr. James C. McCabe

has started a private practice in
internal medicine/nephrology in
Wilmington, N.C. He and his wife,
Mary, have two children, Forrest
and Lauren.

Ronald C. Robbins

owns Cornerstone Commercial
Associates in Alexandria, Va. He and
his wife, Lacey, have two daughters,
Sarah and Shelby.

Stewart R.W. Scruggs
is still executive chef and owner of
Zoot Restaurant in Austin, Texas.

Christopher P. Smith

accepted a new job as general coun-
sel for Partners Management Co. in
Baltimore. He and his wife, Aimee,
have three children, Porter, Shelby,
and Peyton.

John H. Windsor Ill

was elected to the board of the
Dallas chapter of the Institute of
Real Estate Management. He is a
property manager for ‘Trammell
Crow in the Las Colinas develop-
ment near Dallas/Fort Worth
International.

S3L

Lawrence H. Bryant
See °80.

Christopher T. Hale

writes that Hale & Lein is a litiga-
tion firm designed and intended to
support the growing expenses of the
Hale family with four children, but
“don’t tell Mr. Lein.” The Hales
live in Thiensville, Wis.

Catherine O'Connor

is an attorney in the municipal
department of the law firm of
Bernstein, Shur, Sawyer and
Nelson. She recently relocated from
the firm’s Portland (Me.) office to
its Kennebunkport office.

’

S4
Dr. John J. Delany Ill
and his wife, Liz, have moved to
Santa Fe, N.M., where he has joined
Daylight Chemical Information
Systems, a small software company.

Ross S. Lynde
received a master’s in education
from Lynchburg College in May.

John L. McCants

is an associate with Ellis, Lawhorne,
Davidson & Sims in Columbia, S.C.,
and practices commercial and bank-
ruptcy law.

Dr. Thomas M.T. Turk
is now a Wahoo in residency at the
University of Virginia Hospital.

Timothy A. Valliere

graduated from law school at New
York University. He is clerking with
Federal District Court Judge Edith
Clement in New Orleans.

SAL

Patricia Reed Black

of Good, Va., “retired” from
Edmunds and Williams last year
after the birth of her second child,
Alyson. She writes, “Staying home
to raise two children is more work,
less money, but much better pay!”
Graeme L. Currie

has returned to Los Angeles, having
missed the earthquake in January,
after an enjoyable stint in his firm’s
office in Houston. He continues to
practice business litigation with
Andrews and Kurth.

Jane North

practices law and meditation with
the natural resources/public policy
group of Gordon, ‘Thomas, Honey-
well in Tacoma, Wash. She recently
worked with Native American tribes
and municipal utilities negotiating
water rights issues. Daughter Caitlin
attends many of her meetings.

     
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

ES xaxi ’

on

James T. Berry Jr.

has joined the McDonald’s Cor
regional controller. He lives in
Dallas with his wife, Tracy, ang
‘Timothy.

Charles R. DePoy | % ’

is a senior manager in Price Wat
house’s Sacramento (Calif.)
ment consulting practice. He wri,
that his daughter, Jillian Pea C
tinues to astound me.”
Gregory W. Hair }
was recently promoted to branch
chief in the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s depart-
ment of corporation finance j in |
Washington, D.C,

Todd G. Hermann 7
received his M.D. from Baylor —
College of Medicine in Houste
June. He is serving a one-year
sitional internship at Baylor. F;
there, Hermann will enter the
thesiology residency program a
University of Virginia.

Jeffrey T. Hirsch
and his wife, Joy, have been t
ferred to Guatemala, where t
country sales manager for Exxe

Michael W. Hudson
is a staff writer with the Roa,

Times © World News. He is alse
contributing writer with Se
Exposure magazine and the wi
of the 1994 Sidney Hillman
for Social Justice Reporting. —

Charles M. (Chip) Hutch

is taking a leave of absence fro
job to join Pact 95, an Americ
Cup syndicate. He will be w
team in San Diego until next

Glen O. Jackson
has been promoted to depulll
aging director of Manning Selv:
& Lee in Atlanta.

Stanley P. Lewis
has joined the management te
Crate & Barrel in Adanta. He p
ously owned and founded Virs
Born & Bred Inc. in Lexington

John Del Mixon Jr. -
has been transferred to Charlot
where he is working on a proje
First Union Bank as a cons
with Andersen Consulting.

Marc Monyek
has been promoted to senior |
manager of international finane
McDonald’s in Chicago.

James N. Nance |
has caught one of each species
billfish in the world, completit
goal he set for himself in 1990.
has caught black marlin, stripe
marlin, Atlantic and Pacific b .

   
 

marlin, white marlin, and Atlantic
and Pacific sailfish. He lives in West

palm Beach, Fla.

william E. White Il
; nd his family moved to St. Louis in
' May. He is national group sales

manager for Dot Foods Inc.

85L

Charles Martel’s
Rotisserie League baseball team,

| the Charlietans, came in fourth
place last year, narrowly edging
classmate Ron Bevans’ Mo’Rons.
Martle attributes his team’s fast fin-
ish to a trade which took many of
the Mo’Rons’ best players “and
gave nothing in return.”

 

Peter B. Rosenwald Il

js a partner at Weinberg and Green
and lives with his wife, Beth, and
son, Charles Jacob, in Baltimore.

‘SO

George T. Corrigan Jr.

js director of the packaging division
and partner of Howe, Lawlor and
Associates, an executive search firm.
Corrigan also coaches the Philadel-
phia Wings, a professional lacrosse

| team in the Major Indoor Lacrosse

| League. He lives in Strafford, Pa.

is vice president in the real estate
banking group of NationsBank in
Houston.

Paul M. Davey

| David N. Eckardt
| works for Lehman Brothers as a
| fixed-income institutional sales-
person in Atlanta.

Christopher R. Hope

has entered the master’s program in
physical therapy at Shenandoah
University in Winchester, Va. An
avid swimmer, he placed 16th in the
U.S. Open Water 15K Swimming
Championships. Hope also raced in
412.5 mile swim around Key West
in July.

Christopher J. Komosa

is a portfolio manager with Worms
Asset Management in New York
City. He completed his MBA at
Georgia State University last year.

Nelson R. Patterson

has been transferred from brand
Manager to account executive on
the HEB team with Procter and

Gamble in San Antonio, Texas.

Lt. David W. Sprunt Jr.
Works in Cleveland as public affairs
officer for the Ninth Coast Guard
strict, which encompasses the
reat Lakes region. He works with
the media as well as publishing a
monthly newsletter for Coast Guard
families, coordinating congressional
“sits, and serving as staff officer for

 

the Ninth District commander, a
one-star admiral.

Joseph E. Vidunas

of Charlottesville, Va., will ride in
his second Multiple Sclerosis
Society 150-mile bike tour next
spring. He received a certificate in
public administration and an MBA
from Shenandoah University last
year.

SOL

Peter J. Walsh Jr.

recently became a partner in the law
firm of Potter, Anderson and Coroon
in Wilmington, Del.

;
S7

Christopher R. Carter

has been appointed chairman of the

English department at Christchurch

School in Christchurch, Va. He

recently attended an NEH seminar

on Jane Austen for secondary-school

teachers at the University of Illinois

at Chicago.

Marshall M. Eubank
is vice president of EnCap
Investments in Houston.

Jefferson L. Harralson
is vice president for U.S. Banking
Alliance in Atlanta.

Douglas E. Harvey

was recently promoted to account-
ing manager at United Network for
Organ Sharing. He and his wife,
Dorline, live in Richmond.

Dr. H. Baltzer Lejeune

and his wife, Suzanne, live in New
Orleans, where he is halfway
through a six-year residency in oto-
laryngology at Tulane.

Timothy G. McMahon

received his M.A. degree in history
at the University of Wisconsin-
Madison and is continuing his Ph.D
work in modern British and Irish
history. He and his wife, Anne
Coulling, live in Madison.

James M. New

was recently hired to open the
Staubach Co.’s real estate office in
Washington, D.C. New was previ-
ously employed by ‘Trammell Crow
Co. in its development office.

Dr. Abbas W. Samii

received his Ph.D in international
relations from the University of
Cambridge and is now looking for
work in Washington, D.C.

Paul G. Schlimm

is commander of Headquarters and
A Company, 307th Forward Support
Battalion in the 82nd Airborne
Division at Fort Bragg, N.C. His
wife, Kathy, is an army captain.

S87L

Rodney L. Moore

is a shareholder of Johnson and
Wortley, formerly Johnson and
Gibbs, in Dallas.

’
SS

G. Stuart Geisel

is entering the real estate business

in Park City, Utah. He also plays

club lacrosse in Salt Lake City but

notes it’s “not quite like the compe-

tition on Wilson Field.”

William 8. (Sandy) Harrison
Jr.

is working on his MBA at Loyola in
Baltimore. He also started Red
Snapper Marine Tours, a boat char-
ter company.

Michael R. Henry

is a copywriter and broadcast pro-
ducer for Earle Palmer Brown
Advertising in Richmond. He also
performs stand-up comedy at clubs
around the country.

James E. Hodge

is currently senior editor at
Dominion Post Inc., a video post-
production house in Arlington, Va.

Jason P. Lisi

was admitted to the Pennsylvania
Bar in 1993 and received his LL.M.
in taxation from Villanova Univer-
sity School of Law last December.
He is living in Hockessin, Del.

David S. Makepeace

has been named assistant vice presi-
dent of United Carolina Bank. He is
a commercial banking officer for the
western region of UCB. Makepeace

lives in Charlotte with his wife, Lee.

Andrew G. McDonald
graduated from the Medical
University of South Carolina,
College of Medicine in Charleston.
He is currently doing his residency
in internal medicine at Bowman-
Gray in Winston-Salem, N.C.

Peter J. Pizzo Ill

has been promoted to treasurer of
Hallmark Healthcare Corp., a public
company which owns and operates
17 acute care hospitals throughout
the Southeast. He lives in Atlanta.

Bradley B. Root

and six colleagues started a private
real estate acquisition and invest-
ment firm in April. The company,
Brookwood Financial Partners,
acquired its first property in Fairfax,
Va. Root spends the majority of his
time in Washington, D.C., and
Baltimore meeting with clients.

Stephen T. Sears
received his MBA from Duke
University in May.

Leif Ueland

works for “Later with Greg Kinear”
at NBC and is pursuing a master’s in
professional writing at the Univer-
sity of Southern California.

SSL

Tina A. Hall

has opened her own law firm in
Baltimore. She concentrates in the
areas of elder law, estate planning,
and guardianship law.

Louise Phipps Senft

and William W. Senft

have opened a law office in Balti-
more. They practice in business and
personal injury litigation, matrimo-
nial and family law, bankruptcy, and
alternative dispute resolution.

John A. Williamson

is a lawyer with Martin, ‘Tate,
Morrow and Marston in Memphis.
He and his wife, Suzanne, have a
daughter, Sophie Ann.

’

SY
Ist Lt. Matthew G. Bevin
had an “exhilarating experience”
when he ran with the bulls in
Pamplona, Spain, on July 9. As he
approached the stadium and the end
of the run, he was dangerously close
to the bulls. He is now safely back
in the States working as a capital
advisor for a financial investment
firm, SEI Corp. Bevins lives in
Wakefield, Mass.

Elizabeth Brown Burkhart
lives in Dallas with her husband,
Randy, and is business administrator
at the Country Place, an adolescent
residential treatment center.

Keri Hinrichs Geary
See Stephen P. Geary °83.

Rhona M. Hughes

received an MBA from the Darden
School at the University of Virginia
in May. She was the recipient of the
William Michael Shermet Award for
scholarship and service and a faculty
award for academic excellence.
Hughes now works for Alex. Brown
& Sons in Baltimore.

E. Wright Ledbetter

is director of alumni relations for the
Darlington School in Rome, Ga. In
his free time, Ledbetter has started
Wright Image, through which he
markets and sells his photography to
individuals and collectors.

E. Russell March 111

is an associate with the law firm of
Johnstone, Adams, Bailey, Gordon
and Harris in Mobile, Ala.

Hugh B. McCormick II1
received his J.D. from Ohio
Northern University in May. He
now lives in Washington, D.C.

47

Business Hitiquette

David McLeod ’88 goes dancing every night. Some nights
he stays in his hometown of Augusta, Ga. Other nights he trav-
els to nearby Waynesboro or Thompson. Once a week, he ven-
tures as far as Greenville, S.C. For a job that keeps him on his
toes, “I have a good lifestyle,” he says.

Growing up, McLeod took social dancing from his mother,
Dorothy, who began teaching young adults more than 18 years
at the YWCA in Augusta.
The classes grew large
enough that Dorothy
started her own business,
Social Inc., in 1990. The
following year, McLeod
completed his MBA from
Vanderbilt University
and came home to work
in the family business.

From there, things
have moved quicker than

 

the Texas two-step.

McLeod married long-

Mr. Manners: David McLeod ’88.

time sweetheart Kathryn
Strickler in July and bought his first house this summer as well.
Meanwhile, enrollment at Social Inc. continues to rise, and the
McLeods currently have almost 1,400 students. “I was looking
for a job that wouldn’t dominate my life,” McLeod says, “and I
think I’ve found it.”

Students can start taking classes from Social Inc. in sixth
grade. While all sorts of dance classes are offered to all age
groups, Social Inc.’s focus is on young adults. Durin ~ their first
year, students learn basic social skills: dining etiquette, corre-
spondence, introductions. Second-year students are introduced
to the waltz and the fox-trot, with the emphasis on social eti-
quette for boys—how to ask a girl to dance, how to hold doors
and chairs for girls. Third-year students attend monthly theme
parties: Social Inc. rents a dance hall with a big wooden floor
and hosts a three-hour dance. “It’s a time for them to socially
interact,” McLeod says. “They go to the dance, have fun, and
don’t have to worry about the bad stuff.”

As a student at W&L, McLeod saved his dancing prowess
for Fancy Dress Balls. Once he got to Vanderbilt, however, he
took a fancy to country dancing, and also prepared a report on
his mother’s company. A social dancing business combined his
interests well—dancing, teaching, and business—and McLeod
has been helping her teach and run Social Inc. ever since. “I
never had any idea I’d be doing this,” he says. “I like to think
of it as a business, even though it’s more of a school.”

—By Faith Truman °95

W. Weston Newton

is a law clerk for the Hon. C.
Weston Houck, chief judge of the
U.S. District Court in South
Carolina. Newton previously
clerked for S.C. Supreme Court
Justice John H. Waller Jr. He lives
in Florence.

Kelly S. Putney

is briefing attorney for Justice Alma
Lopez on the Texas Fourth Court of
Appeals. She lives in San Antonio.

E. Luckett Robinson Il
graduated from the University of
Alabama School of Law and has
taken a position with Hand,
Arendall, Bedsole, Greaves &
Johnston in Mobile.

Kennon Mary Savage

enjoys her work as counselor at
Crystal Springs Uplands School. She
is beginning her doctoral studies in
counseling psychology at the
University of San Francisco.

James M. Sloat

received his master’s in political sci-
ence from Duke University last
year. He lives in Durham, N.C.

Thomas B. West ll

is attending the J.L. Kellogg
Graduate School of Management at
Northwestern University. He spent
the last two years as a consultant for
Ogilvy & Mather in Singapore.

OIL

Douglas C. Martinson Il
refereed the NCAA Div. II ice
hockey championship in Hunts-
ville, Ala, where he practices law
with Martinson and Beason.

90

Dr. R. Brian Berryman
graduated from Southwestern
Medical School and has begun his
residency in internal medicine at
Parkland Memorial Hospital in
Dallas.

G. Wesley Boyd

spent his summer in Cincinnati
doing a brand management intern-
ship with Procter and Gamble. He is
working on his MBA at the Univer-
sity of Texas graduate school of
business.

Reid T. Campbell

is supervisor of financial reporting at
the corporate headquarters of Fund

American Enterprises Holdings Inc.
in Norwich, Vt.

Robert J. Dadio

is information systems auditor with
the Martin Marietta Corp. in

fully passed the CPA examination.

Anna M. Dulaney
is teaching Spanish in the Upper

  

School at the Darlington S¢
Rome, Ga. She is also work
the school’s community se
acrobics programs.

hool in
Ng With
Ivice and

John S. Forsyth

is an agent for Allstate Insurance
Co. in Wheeling, W.Va.

Dr. Anthony J. Frank
graduated from the Eastern Virginia
School of Medicine in Norfolk, Va.
in May. He works in the emergency
medicine residency program at
Richlands Memorial Hospital in
Columbia, S.C.

Ronda C. Gunter

received her J.D. from Ohio
Northern University in May. She
now lives in Barboursville, W.Va.

Wendy Wolford Lovell

is an account coordinator at Katz and
Associates, a community relations
and marketing firm in La Jolla,
Calif. She lives with her husband,
Tom 91, in San Diego.

Mary Alice McMorrow

spent the summer in Minneapolis as
a marketing intern at General Mills
and is pursuing her MBA at the
Darden School at the University of
Virginia.

J. Carter Montague

is attending the University of
Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of
Business after attaining his associ-
ateship in the Society of Actuaries
while at Aetna Life & Casualty.

Kimberly Ann Moseley

is a third-year medical student at
Eastern Virginia Medical School in
Norfolk.

David R. Olson

has accepted a new job as manager
of acquisitions for HealthSpring Ine.
in Reston, Va.

Dr. K. Randal Pearson

graduated from the University of |
Louisville School of Medicine in a
May. He and his wife, Lynn, moved
to Charleston, S.C., where he is
beginning his residency in pedi-
atrics at the Medical University of
South Carolina Children’s Hospital.

Fr

Tanya Pergola

received her master’s in sociology
from the University of Washington
last March and is now continuing in
the Ph.D program there. She lives @
Seattle.

Dr. Richard A. Sances Il
graduated from University of
Virginia Medical School in May and
started a residency in pediatrics at
the University of Kentucky.

     
 

Grace Stutzmann
received her master’s in psychology
from SUNY-Stonybrook in May and
is pursuing a doctorate in neuro-

science at New York University-

  

Michael E. Thompson

is finishing his Ph.D in materials
science and engineering at North-
western University.

John T. Touchton Jr.

is in his second year at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania’s Wharton
School of Business. Over the sum-
mer, he lived in China for the
Wharton Global Immersion Program
and then worked with Franklin
Resources in San Francisco.

piederit A. (Dirk) van
Assendelft

has joined the university computing
staff at W&L. He works as network
and computing specialist for the law

school.

G. Mason Van Sciver

is president/owner of Van Sciver
Leasing, specializing in personal
and corporate auto leasing services.
He lives in Conshohocken, Pa.

90L

Nanette C. Heide

and her husband, Richard Slagle,
have recently moved to New Jersey.
Nanette is practicing with the law
firm of Brown, Raysman & Millstein
in New York City, specializing in
computer and commercial litigation
and bankruptcy.

Jon M. Jurgovan

has moved to Atlanta, where he
practices patent law as an associate
at Hopkins and ‘Thomas.

J. Steven Patterson

joined Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer
& Feld as an associate in the firm’s
Washington (D.C.) office.

’

9]
D. Franklin Daniels Jr.
completed his master’s in higher
education administration and insti-
tutional advancement from Vander-
bilt University. He lives in Atlanta.

Michael W. Danzansky

returned from a three-week trip to
Europe last year to begin a new job
with Massachusetts Mutual in insur-
ance and investment planning in
Springfield.

Larkin M. Fowler

and his wife, Courtney Payne
Fowler ’91, moved to Ann Arbor,
Mich., where he is pursuing an
MBA at the University of Michigan.

Reid S. Manley

Sraduated from the U niversity of
Alabama Law School in May and is
how an associate with the Birming-
ham law firm of Burr and Forman.

Stephanie McNulty
feturned from a one-year Rotary
Scholarship in Chile and now works

for the Close Up Foundation in
Washington, D.C. She plans to
attend graduate school.

Charles A. Meyer Jr.

worked as an equity analyst this
summer at Mercantile Bank in
Baltimore. He is in the second year
of the MBA program at the Babson
Graduate School of Management.

Rachelle B. Nock

is attending the Royal Melbourne
Institute of Technology in Australia
as part of the University of Mary-
land MBA International Exchange
Program.

Christian E. Renau

is a third-year law student at the
University of Kentucky and is serv-
ing as honor council chairperson.
She is also on the trial advocacy
board and is clerking at Central
Kentucky Legal Services. ‘Through
the Women’s Law Caucus, she start-
ed a mentor program, pairing first-
year women law students with
female lawyers in Lexington.
Classmate Bill Meadows and Paul
Galanides °90 are in her law class.

M. Schuyler Rideout

recently moved from Alexandria,
Va., to Atlanta, where she works for
‘Turner Broadcasting System as an
event marketing assistant for the
cable network sales division.

Damon L. Sanders

has completed his work at the
University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill master’s of public
administration program. He is city
planner for Bennettsville, S.C.

Tammi R. Simpson

graduated from the University of
‘Tennessee College of Law in May.
She lives in Nashville.

Merrill E. Watson

is eating lots of millet, better known
in the U.S. as birdseed, as a Peace
Corps volunteer in Senegal. Be-
tween bites, she practices her Serere
and Wolof and rides around the
countryside on her motorcycle help-
ing local farmers grow better rice.

GIL

Mark A. Cobb

was recently admitted into the
Alabama state bar but continues to
practice in Atlanta, where he con-
centrates in construction law and
contracts.

Kenneth D. Woodrow

of Arlington, Va., joined the law firm
of Baker & Hostetler in May. He
advises industry clients and trade
associations on compliance with and
development of state and federal
environmental laws and regulations.

’
92

Louise G. Adamson

received her MBA with a concentra-

tion in real estate and urban land

development from Virginia

Commonwealth University. She

worked for a real estate develop-

ment company this summer and

entered law school in August.

Shana Horrigan Alewine

is orchestra personnel and opera-
tions manager for the Washington
Opera at the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts in
Washington, D.C.

Catherine Harris Allen
received her master’s in teaching
from Duke University last year. She
lives in Chapel Hill, N.C.

Evan J. Balmer

finished his first year of law school
at Quinnipiac College School of
Law, where he was elected to a sec-
ond term as class senator. ‘This sum-
mer, he clerked for the entertain-
ment law firm of Kraditor, Haber &
Bienstock in New York City.

Robert J. Cavese

works as a financial analyst with
First Albany Corp., a small invest-
ment bank in Albany, N.Y.

Thomas 8S. Cockrell

is an associate with a Boston man-
agement consulting firm focusing on
high technology industries.

Chisolm L. Coleman

has been assigned branch operations
manager at the Mt. Pleasant main
office of Wachovia Bank in Charles-
ton, S.C., after a nine-month stint in
business banking. He is also taking
MBA classes at the Citadel.

J. Read Folline
works as a commercial loan officer in
Florence, S.C.

Jonathan A. Frank

has entered his third year at T.C.
Williams School of Law at the
University of Richmond.

W. Jay Gabbard

is working with Primesource
Building Products Distribution Co.
in Columbia, S.C. He plans to enter
the Southern Baptist Theological
Seminary to study pastoral counsel-
ing next fall.

M. Jonathan Hanger

has relocated to Charleston, S.C.,
and works for Hanger Aviation as an
airplane dealer.

Brian C. Harper
works for First National Bank in
northern Virginia.

Laurel Ann Heiskell
recently received her master’s in
public policy and is now employed

as a lobbyist and legislative coordi-
nator for Concerned Women for
America in Washington, D.C.

Ist Lt. Trevor P. Hildebrand
is currently stationed at Fort Hood,
Texas, as a mechanized infantry pla-
toon leader.

Brian C. Huber

is a retail securities broker for
Interstate/Johnson Lane in Atlanta.
He lives with classmates Spencer
Patton and Hunter Williams.

Craig N. Lang Jr.
is a first-year student at Georgetown
University Law School.

Melissa A. Manko

moved to Atlanta and lives with
classmate Jenny Nasser. She plans
to teach elementary school.

Stephen E. Mathis

received his master’s in philosophy
from Duke University last year and
is living in Lawrence, Kan.

R. Christopher Miyamoto
has begun his third year at the
Indiana University School of
Medicine in Indianapolis.

Kevin D. Morrison
is a financial markets analyst for
McDonald’s Corp. in Chicago.

Michael G. Patrick

has lived in Atlanta for two years
and works as a free-lance production
assistant on music videos, commer-
cials, and feature films.

Brian M. Root
is police and courts reporter for 7he
Winchester (Va.) Star.

Kathryn L. (Katie) Seeman
moved from Steamboat Springs,
Colo., to New York to attend gradu-
ate school, “or at least try.”

Christopher P. Simon

is a first-year law student at Widener
University School of Law in
Wilmington, Del.

John R. Thomas
is attending law school at Rutgers
University in Camden, N.].

Andrew M. Tucker

has been elected accounting officer
of Wachovia Bank in Winston-
Salem, N.C.

Elizabeth Vallotton Yarbrough
left First Union in Augusta, Ga., to
join NationsBank in Anderson, S.C.
She works as a relationship manager
and bank officer.

92L

Brad Kurlancheek

has a solo practice in civil litigation
in his hometown of Wilkes-Barre,
Pa. It “beats delivering pizza!”

Giles G. Perkins

is a field coordinator for Jim
Folsom’s gubernatorial campaign in
Alabama. His wife, Hillary Head
"92L, is corporate counsel for Ram
‘Tool and Supply. The couple lives
in Birmingham.

Paula F. Sherlock

practices law as an associate with
Boehl, Stopher & Graves. Sherlock
has enjoyed two Kentucky Derbys
and asks old friends to call if they
are in Kentucky.

’
93

John S. (Jay) Darden

is a staff assistant in the office of

Sen. Sam Nunn in Washington,
D.C.

Claire F. Dudley

works at the National Institutes of
Health doing research on kidney
cancer. She lives in Alexandria, Va.

Robert A. Josey
is pursuing an M.D. at Baylor
College of Medicine in Houston.

Thomas G. May

appeared with Penn State football
coach Joe Paterno on CNN in June.
‘The topic: college binge drinking.
May lives in Alexandria, Va.

Jennifer S. McCann

works as a computer programmer for
a pharmaceutical software company,
travels across the United States and
Europe on business, and lives with
two high school friends in
Hawthorne, N.]J.

Brian J. Murtagh

works for the Maryland Department
of the Environment as a geologist in
the oil control program.

W. Kirk Ogden

works for InterVarsity Christian
Fellowship at University of Virginia,
Hampden-Sydney College, and
Longwood College.

John B. Phifer

is sitting in the “Papa Bear Halas”
section on the east side of Soldier
Field for Bears games this fall.

Joseph L. Pringle

is pursuing a master’s in environ-
mental science at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Courtney L. Smith

worked at a travel agency outside
Boston returning from a “fabulous”
Avfenthalt in Munich. She entered
graduate school in physical therapy
at the Medical College of Virginia.

Matthew J. White

is an assistant manager with Encore
Books, noting that he “sells books
by day and writes them by night.”
The aspiring novelist lives in
Jenkintown, Pa.

Deirdre A. Zarganis

is attending the Medical College of
Virginia’s pharmacy program in
Richmond. She has been working
for BioClin Inc., which performs
Phase I & II clinical testing for
pharmaceutical companies.

93L

John W. Francisco

is an associate at the law firm of
Parker, Poe, Adams & Bernstein in
Charlotte.

‘94

L. Kathleen Eastland

teaches French in the upper school
of Darlington School in Rome, Ga.
She also coaches volleyball and mid-
dle school basketball.

J. Benjamin Eggleston Jr.
is studying philosophy at the
University of Edinburgh.

Carlin M. Jones

moved to Nashville to begin a mas-
ter’s in special education at the
Peabody College of Vanderbilt
University.

Douglas M. (Willow) Kaufman
is working at an adolescent in-
patient unit of Gundry-Glass Mental
Health Systems in Baltimore.

Timothy W. Moorhead

works as a legislative correspondent
for Sen. Paul Coverdell (R-Ga.) in
Washington, D.C.

Krista A. Taurins

was in Russia this summer as a vol-
unteer at an orphanage and the
Goodwill Games.

Sarah M. Wyatt

is an actuarial analyst trainee at
W.E. Stanley & Co. in Greensboro,
N.C,

Marriages

William D. Gunter °33

to Peggy Taylor, on Nov. 15, 1992.
The couple lives in St. Louis.

Robert E. Burriss 111 °45
to Frances Catherine Martin, on
Sept. 18, 1993, in Anderson, S.C.

Peter C. Keefe °78

to Deborah Sue Wood, on April 23,
1994, in Alexandria, Va. Members of
the wedding party included Robert
S. Keefe °68, Walter D. Kelley Jr.
°77, W. Kirkland Ruffin °77, and
George F. Griffin IV °78.

David G. McDonald ’78

to Marion Latham, on Feb. 12, 1994.
The groom is a financial consultant
for Smith Barney in Memphis and

goes hunting and fishing as often as
possible. The bride previously
worked for Sen. John Warner °49 in
Washington, D.C. Marshall Jemison
°78 served as a groomsman.

J. Paula Pierce ’81L

to Jerome M. Beazley, on April 10,
1994. The couple lives near
Charlottesville, Va., where the bride
has retained her position as general
counsel, first vice president of Com-
modities Corp.

Theodore G. Fletcher 83
to Ann Kidder, on Sept. 18, 1993, in
Falmouth, Maine.

Keith E. Goretzka °83

to Rebecca J. Waitt, on June 11,
1994, in Charleston, S.C. ‘The cou-
ple lives in Baltimore, where
Goretzka is pastor of Northside
Baptist Church.

William H. Leachman III °83
to Kelsey Kerr Drowne, on Feb. 12,
1994, in New York City. ‘The couple
lives in Markham, Va.

Stephen G. Schweller ’84L
to Suzanne Sanker, on Nov. 13,
1993. The couple lives in Cincin-
nati.

Charles §. Kerr ’85,

to Kirsten M. Goodman, on July 9,
1994, in Alexandria, Va. ‘The couple
lives in St. Louis, where Kerr is
regional director for Re/Max Inter-
national.

Thomas M. Butler ’85L

to Debra Ann Briggs, on July 16,
1994, in San Diego. The groom
works as corporate counsel in
Anaheim, Calif., and the couple
lives in Murrieta.

Cooper C. Crawford ’87

to Madge P. Brown, on March 12,
1994, in Rome, Ga. The couple lives
in Florence, S.C., where the groom
is city executive for the National
Bank of South Carolina.

Bradley G. Thompson ’87

to Katherine Nickols, on Aug. 1,
1992. The groom is senior market-
ing manager of establishment ser-
vices for American Express. The
couple lives in Fairfield, Conn.

Stephen J. Head ’88

to Amanda Farfan, on Sept. 3, 1992,
in Napa Valley, Calif. Head was
recently made partner in the north-
ern Virginia law firm of McLean,
Considine, Hurley, and Demento.

James M. Metcalfe ’88

to Kathryn C. Comba, on July 23,
1994, in New York City. The groom
is an investment banker at Lehman
Brothers.

E. Page Stuart Jr. ’88

to Samantha John, on March 4,
1994. Members of the wedding
party included classmate Blair

 
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
    
    
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
   
    

Severe and Chris Padden °90, ¢

is an associate with the law firm ¢
Givhan and Spainhour, ia

’

Eleanor C. Nelson ’89 —
to John H. Barnes, on July 23, 1992
in Richmond. The bride is a busi.
ness news producer at Cable Ne
Network. The couple lives in
York City.

—

William O. Birchfield 111 *8 7
to Robin Michelle Hawsey, on J.
11, 1994. The couple livesin
Jacksonville, Fla., where Birch
is chief financial officer of Redon

Inc., a transportation “quipmea
leasing company. A

Gregory J. Castronuovo °89

to Keri Chrisman, on May 28, 1¢
in southern California. Classandll
Jeff (Smokey) Bercaw was best
Castronuovo is manager of sport
and news marketing for NBC in —
New York. ia

Jeffrey P. Cummings °89
to Michele Parr, on June 12, 196
Marco Island, Fla. Groomsmen _
included classmates Bill Lasseign
Chris Cunningham, and Ned
Spencer. Cummings is a financia
analyst with PHH in Hunt Valle
Md. The couple lives in Luther- |
ville.

Anna M. Hampton ’89
to Jose Antonio Salas, on Aug.
1994. Erin Cosby °89 was an atte
dant. The couple lives in Houste

Carolyn D. (Bitsy) Hopper”
to David Rex Young, on July 30, _
1994, in Austin, ‘Texas.

James A. Linza Jr. ?89
to Julia S. Hanneken, on July 1
1994, at Sweet Briar College.
couple lives in Vienna, Va.

Mark A. Robertson "89
to Annabelle B. Brandeaux, on é

12, 1994. The couple livesin
Vancouver, B.C., where both are
pursuing their degrees in divinity
Regent College.

L. Joelle Jackson °90
to Robert W. Dillard, on March 5
1994, in Tampa, Fla. The couple
resides in Jacksonville. a

Thomas E. Fox °90
to Paige Hampton Ingram, on J

18, 1994. John J. Fox Jr. "57 was be
man, and John J. Fox III’81,J.
Andrew Fox °92, and classmates"

Craig B. Davis, Robert D. Mo
and William W. Turner were
groomsmen. The couple lives in 4
Richmond.

Thomas I. Hayes 111 °90
to Jennifer Williams, on May 26,
1994, in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
wedding party included classmates
Stuart Pratt, Brad Cannon, Dave® ;

if

Olson, Travis Wilhite, Erich

Kieckhefer, and Andrew Bunger '91.

The couple lives in Nashville,
where the groom is pursuing his
MBA at Vanderbilt.

Joanne E. Even "90

to Ramil B. Ibanez, on Aug. 5, 1994.
The couple lives in Richmond,
where the bride is a marketing coor-
dinator with Warren, Whitney &

Sherwood.

Nancy L. Hickam °90
See Timothy J. Halloran °91.

William A. Norton Jr. °90
to Amy Roberts, on Feb. 12, 1994.
The couple lives in Nashville.

James L. Fowler °91

to Laure! Moore, on July TK, 1994,
in Atlanta. The groom is in his
fourth year of medical school at the
Medical University of South
Carolina in Charleston.

Timothy J. Halloran °91

to Nancy L. Hickam ’90,

on June 18, 1994, in Lexington, Va.
The couple lives in Atlanta, where
the groom is a senior account analyst
with A.C. Nielsen and the bride is
completing a graduate degree in
counseling psychology at the
University of Georgia and is a pro-
posal and grant writer for UGA.

W. Thompson Hatcher °91

to Nancy Mitchell °92,

on Aug. 6, 1994. ‘The couple lives in
Lexington, Ky., where the groom is
attending law school at the
University of Kentucky.

Mitchell G. Schmale 91

to Alesha C. Priebe °91,

on May 14, 1994, in Canadaigua,
N.Y. The wedding party included
classmates Lisa Frantz, Anne Walsh,
Kathleen Kelly, Sharon Witting, and
Michael Brandt. The couple lives in
Baltimore.

Charles C. Edwards Il °92
fo Ann D. Barton °92,

on June 25, 1994, in Grosse Point
Farms, Mich. The couple lives in
Baltimore.

Pamela F. Kelley °92

to Jon M. Lauder, on Aug. 14, 1994,
in Lee Chapel. Pamela is the morn-
Ing associate producer at News-
channel 8 in Washington, D.C. The
couple lives in Stafford.

Thomas S. Mayer ’92 to

Laura D. Howard ee

On June 18, 1994, in Gaithersburg,
Md. Classmates Frank Moore, Sam
Page, and Jay Plotkin were grooms-
men, while classmates Karen Bosi,
Karin Johnston, and Cathy Lopi-
Ccolo were bridesmaids. The couple
lives in Arlington, Va., where Mayer
'S Working to complete a Ph.D in
€xperimental psychology at

it

American University, and Howard
works for the Center for Develop-
ment and Population Activities.

Evelyn (Monie) Schroeder °92
to William E. Henderson, on June
25, 1994, in New Orleans. The
groom is in his final year of medical
school at the University of Miss-
issippi Medical Center in Jackson.

Douglas A. Boyles °93

to Joan M. Sharp °93,

on June 4, 1994, in Reno, Nev. The
couple will live in a town yet to be
determined by the Navy.

Christopher B. Sackett °93

to C. Drewry Atkins °93,

on June 11, 1994, in Lexington, Va.
The bride is the daughter of Leroy
C. Atkins ’68 and the groom is the
son of Henry M. Sackett III °64.
Members of the wedding party
included Henry M. Sackett IV °88,
Matthew C. Sackett 90, Charles D.
Daniel °93, Jennifer C. Shaker 94,
Elizabeth M. Goodykoontz ’94, and
L. Cole Atkins °97. The groom
works for the ‘T'aylor-Ramsey Corp.
in Lynchburg and the bride works
for McGuire, Woods, Battle &
Boothe in Richmond. The couple
lives in Charlottesville.

Angie L. Carrington °94

to Reid A. Murphy °93,

on June 18, 1994, in Charlottesville,
Va. The bride is pursuing a graduate
degree in speech pathology, and the
groom is employed by Young Life.
‘The couple lives in Danville.

Births

Mr. © Mrs. Charles R. (Rick)
Chittum °69, ason, William
Rickenbrode, on April 26, 1994.
‘The family lives in Churchville, Va.

Mr. ©@ Mrs. John O. Ellis Jr.
‘71, ason, John Connor, on Sept.
15, 1993. The family lives in
Atlanta.

Dr. ©@ Mrs. Robert A. Silver-
man °73, ason, Bennett Richard,
on June 6, 1994. He joins a brother,
Elliot. The family lives in McLean,
Va. Silverman practices pediatric
and general dermatology.

Mr. ©@ Mrs. Frederick W.
Woodward III °73, ason, John
Harris, on April 21, 1994. He joins a
sister, Eleanor Brown. The family
lives in Atlanta.

Mr. © Mrs. John R. Embree
‘75, a daughter, Rae Claire, on
March 25, 1994. The family lives in
Chicago, where Embree is business
manager in the racquet sports divi-
sion of Wilson Sporting Goods.

Mr. © Mrs. Samuel R. Brown
/1 °76, ason, Thomas Fitzgerald,
on April 28, 1994. The family lives
in Virginia Beach.

Mr. © Mrs. G. Scott Thomas
‘77, a daughter, Lindsay Glan, on
July 6, 1994. The family lives in
‘Tonawanda, N.Y.

Dr. © Mrs. Isaac L. (Trip)
Wornom III °77, a daughter,
Victoria Elizabeth, on July 19, 1994.
She joins a brother, Christopher, and
a sister, Jacqueline.

Mr. © Mrs. Edward A.
Burgess °78, ason, Edward
Chandler, on May 10, 1994. He joins
a brother, Pete, and a sister, Good-
win. Burgess is a vice president and
portfolio manager with Trust Co.
Bank in Atlanta.

Mr. @ Mrs. Arthur R.
Carmody IIl ’78, a daughter,
Helen Elizabeth, on June 27, 1994.
She joins five brothers, Arthur,
Harrison, Kenner, Aubry, and
Drake. ‘The family lives in
Shreveport, La.

Mr. ©@ Mrs. Stephen P.
Rodgers °78, a daughter, Grace
Abigail, on Feb. 7, 1994. She joins a
brother, Samuel. Rodgers works as
an economist with the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission in
Washington, D.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Charles H. Walsh
1/1 °78, a daughter, Megan
McLaughlin, on Nov. 27, 1993. She
joins a sister, Christen. Walsh is an
assistant attorney general for the
state of Connecticut.

Mr. ©@ Mrs. Robert W. Massie
//1 °79, a daughter, Augusta
McCauley, on July 23, 1993. The
family lives in Atlanta.

Mr. © Mrs. Netl J. Welch Jr.
°79, ’82L, a daughter, Madeline
Jane, on July 7, 1994. She joins a sis-
ter, Kate. The family lives in
Herndon, Va.

Mr. © Mrs. Douglas K. Willis
‘79, ason, Peter James, on July 26,
1994. He joins two brothers, Jack
and Doug Jr. The family lives in
Madison, N.]J.

Mr. © Mrs. Timothy A. Brooks
*80, a daughter, Isabel Karina, on
Feb. 10, 1994. She joins a sister,
Pilar. Tim is founder of the Austin
Group as well as partner and senior
vice president of Helms/Briscoe
Performance Group. The family
lives in Chicago.

Mr. © Mrs. William L.
Garrett Jr. ’80L, ason, William,
on Sept. 4, 1993. The family lives in
Wilmington, Del.

Mr. ©@ Mrs. Covert J. Geary
"80, a daughter, Caroline Grace, on
Jan. 15, 1994. She joins a sister,
Claire. The family lives in Mande-
ville, La.

Mr. © Mrs. Mark E. Lockhart
"80L, ason, Jeremy Gabriel, on
April 30, 1994. He joins three broth-
ers. The family lives in Kennewick,
Wash.

Mr. @ Mrs. Homer A.C. Bliss
‘8/7, adaughter, Matilda Hannah
Belle, on April 4, 1994. She joins her
older sisters, Maryanna and Lilly.
The family lives in Jacksonville,
Fla.

Ms. Margaret H. Campbell
'8/L and her husband, Rick
Gitomer, a son, David Campbell
Gitomer, on June 17, 1993. He joins
a sister, Austin. ‘The family lives in
Aclanta.

Mr. @ Mrs. Peter D. Eliades
*8/, ason, Peter Alexander, on Jan.
9, 1994. The family lives in Hope-
well, Va.

Mr. © Mrs. Brian M.
Ginsburg ’81, ason, Jared
Michael, on Nov. 10, 1993. The
family lives in Pompton Lakes, N.].

Mr. © Mrs. George R. Irvine
1/1 °81/, a daughter, Isabel Starke,
on July 26, 1994. ‘The family lives in
Mobile, Ala., where Irvine is a part-
ner with the law firm of Stone,
Granade, Crosby & Blackburn.

Mr. © Mrs. Lee V. Minetree
*8/, a daughter, Madeleine Leigh,
on March 17, 1994. She joins a
brother, Garner. ‘The family lives in
East Hampton, N.Y.

Mr. © Mrs. Michael J. Perry
‘8/7, a daughter, Caroline
Elizabeth, on May 8, 1994. ‘The
family lives in Westport, Conn.

Mr. © Mrs. Geoffrey H.
Sherrill °81, ason, Spencer
Harrison, on Sept. 27, 1993. He
joins a brother. ‘The family lives in
Lakeville, Conn.

Mr. © Mrs. David R. Cordell
"82, a daughter, Louise, on April
13, 1994. She joins a brother, Ryan.
The family lives in Tulsa, Okla.

Mr. @ Mrs. Allen Cross 82,
a son, Allen Mitchell Hale, on
March 17, 1994. The family lives in
Nashville.

Mr. @ Mrs. Michael W.
Fogarty ’82, a daughter,
Margaret Tucker, on July 15, 1994.
Fogarty works in the paper industry
for Zellerbach. The family lives in
Alexandria, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Alex McAlister
‘82, ason, Gordon Greene, on

51

March 8, 1994. He joins a brother,
Alexander Jr. The family lives in
Charlotte.

Mr. @ Mrs. Daniel L. Weiss
‘82, a daughter, Jordan Amelia, on
Feb. 24, 1994. The family lives in
North Bethesda, Md.

Ms. Patricia Sinskey Wynn
’82L, and her husband, John, a
daughter, Katherine Aviva, on Feb.
16, 1994. She joins twin sisters,
Rikki and Kaya, 4. The family lives
on Mercer Island, Wash.

Mr. © Mrs. Evans §. Attwell
*83, ason, Patrick Scott, on July 27,
1994. The family lives in Houston.

Mr. @ Mrs. Mark W. Buyck
I/1 ’83, a daughter, Elizabeth
Willcox, on June 2, 1994. The fami-
ly lives in Florence, S.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Robert §.
Carpenter °83, a daughter,
Megan Heidt, on March 6, 1994.
She joins a sister, Alexandria Rae.
‘The family lives near Sparks, Md.,
where Carpenter is principal and
vice president of sales for Price
Modern Inc.

Mr.@ Mrs. Gerald 1. Moyer
11 °83, ason, Andrew, on June 1,
1993. The family lives in Arlington,
Va.

Mr. © Mrs. John W. Perkinson
Jr. ’83, ason, John W. (Jack) III,
on May 13, 1994. He joins a sister,
Margaret. The family lives in
Herndon, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Ellis B. Drew IIl
"84L, a daughter, Caroline
Elizabeth, on Jan. 5, 1994. She joins
a brother, David Ellis. ‘The family
lives in Winston-Salem, N.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Jeffrey A. Epstein
*84L, ason, Neil Thomas, on April
16, 1994. The family lives in
Albany, Ga.

Mr. @ Mrs. lan Banwell ’85,

a daughter, Caroline Alexander, on

March 13, 1994. The family lives in
New York City.

Dr. @ Mrs. Stephen H.
Bendheim °85, a daughter,
Kendall McCarrell, 0 Nov. 6, 1993.
Bendheim has a private practice in
obstetrics and gynecology. ‘The fam-
ily lives in Chesapeake, Va.

Mr. Charles A. Blanchard
"SSL @ Louise Browner
Blanchard ’85L, twin daughters,
Ann Pearman and Frances Hallum,
on April 29, 1994. They join two
brothers, Charlie and Mac. The
family lives in Brussels, Belgium,
where Charles is managing partner
of the Brussels office of Hunton &
Williams. Louise has retired from
the practice of law.

52

Mr. © Mrs. Henry W. Dewing
’85, ason, Henry Woods (Woody)
Jr., on Nov. 30, 1993. He joins a sis-
ter, Cameron. Dewing is a consul-
tant with EDS Management
Consulting Services in the commu-
nications industry practice.

Dr. © Mrs. Jeffrey D. Dixon
"85, a daughter, Aryn Elizabeth, on
March 16, 1994. Dixon is currently
an emergency medicine physician in
Kansas City.

Mr. © Mrs. Harry W. Golliday
"85, ason, Miller, on Jan. 4, 1994.
The family lives in Chesapeake, Va.
Golliday was recently promoted to
senior vice president of the Eastern
Region Credit Administration at
Crestar Bank.

Mrs. Jean Barrett Hudson
*85L and her husband, a daughter,
Sarah Catherine Sherrard, on April
2, 1994. The family lives in
Charlottesville, Va.

Dr. @ Mrs. Christopher W.
Ives ’85, ason, Philip Graham, on
April 20, 1994. Ives has completed a
fellowship in gastroenterology. The
family lives in Daphne, Ala.

Mr. @ Mrs. Michael Coghlan
Lord '85, a daughter, Meghan
Davis, on Feb. 3, 1994. The family
lives in Raleigh, N.C., where Lord is
an attorney specializing in employ-
ment law with the firm of Maupin
‘Taylor Ellis & Adams.

Mr. © Mrs. Charles M. Martin
Jr. ’85, a daughter, Madeline Lee,
on Dec. 1, 1993. The family lives in
Irving, ‘Texas.

Mr. © Mrs. Thomas N.
McKinstry ’85, ason, Samuel
Edwards, on March 25, 1994. The
family lives in London, where
McKinstry is vice president of
Wachovia Bank.

Mr. @ Mrs. Scott G. Nagley
"85, a daughter, Katherine Anne,
on July 1, 1994. The family lives in
Annapolis, Md., where Nagley is an
officer in the Army serving as a mas-
ter instructor of chemistry at the
Naval Academy.

Mr. @ Mrs. Peter K. Braden
*86, ason, Christian Wheelwright,
on July 19, 1994. He joins a brother,
Tucker. The family lives in
Richmond.

Mr. @ Mrs. Michael E. Brooks
°86, ason, Charles Hunter (Hunt),
on June 2, 1994. Brooks graduated

from Emory Law School in May and
has joined the litigation department
of Atlanta-based Kilpatrick & Cody.

Mr. © Mrs. William D.
Martien ’86, a daughter, Augusta
Grace, on July 16, 1994. She joins a

sister, Molly. ‘The family lives in
Baltimore.

Mr. © Mrs. James G. Renfro
Jr. ’86, ason, Gavon George, on
June 10, 1994. He joins a sister,
Helen. Renfro is production manag-
er for connector products with
Siecor Corp., and the family recent-
ly relocated to Fort Worth, ‘Texas.

Mr. William A. Garrett Ill
‘87 @ Mrs. Patience Jones
Garrett 89, ason, Christopher
‘Thompson, on April 18, 1994. He
joins a brother, William. The family
lives in Kansas City, where Bill is a
manager with Ernst and Young in
the entrepreneurial services group.

Mr. © Mrs. Robert K. Merritt
II ’87, ason, William Patrick, on
May 15, 1994. The family lives in
Atlanta, where Merritt is a behav-
ioral scientist with the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.

Mr. @ Mrs. Gregory E. Turley
’87, a daughter, Sarah Joanne, on
May 20, 1994. ‘The family lives in
Houston, where Turley is an attor-
ney with Maxwell & Walker, spe-
cializing in taxation and business
planning.

Mr.@ Mrs. W. David Dunn Jr.

"88, a daughter, Katharine
Breckinridge, on June 25, 1994.
Dunn works for Ethicon Endo-
Surgery in Lexington, Ky.

Ms. Hunter Woltz Fisher ’89L
and her husband, Nelson, twins, a
boy, Nelson Maynard, and a girl,
Carson Wood, on June 15, 1994.
The family lives in Richmond.

Mr. @ Mrs. Mathew J.
Horridge ’89, ason, John David
III, on June 26, 1994. He joins a
brother, Chase. ‘The family lives in
‘Tampa, Fla.

Maryanne Loftin White ’89
and her husband, Robert, a son,
John Harrison, on Jan. 25, 1994.
White has a master’s in physical
therapy from Duke University and
practices in the areas of geriatrics
and pediatrics.

Betty Adkins Pullin ’90L

and her husband, Gary, a son, Ryan
Christopher, on July 16, 1994. He
joins a sister, Allison Nicole. The
family lives in Charleston, W.Va.

Mr. © Mrs. Joel A. Waite
‘90L, a daughter, Emma Claire, on
Jan. 25, 1994. The family lives in
West Chester, Pa.

Jill-Lynn Westphal West °90
and her husband, ‘Thomas, a daugh-
ter, Blair Allison, on July 27, 1994.
The family lives in San Clemente,
Calif.

 
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
  

Mr. @ Mrs. E. Grantland
Burns ’91L, ason, Camden
Edward, on Sept. 6, 1993. The
ly lives in Greer, S.C.

Janice Ferman Spraski °9] q
and her husband, Steve, a day ghel
Laura Elizabeth, on Aug, 7, 1994.
The family lives in New York

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy P,
Lupardus ’92L, a daughter,
Joselyn Carol Rae, on March 23,
1993. The family lives outside of
Pineville, W.Va., where Lupardus
a partner in the law firm of |
‘Thompson & Lupardus.

in Memoriam

Eric B. Hallman ’20,
retired illuminating engineer, di
July 23, 1993, in Berkeley Heighr
N.J. He entered W&L in 19144
served as captain of the track tear
in 1916. Hallman was a lieutenant
the 19th Field Artillery of the 5t
Division during World War I and
received his diploma after his dis-
charge from the service. From 16
to 1960, Hallman worked as an il
minating engineer with Electric —
Service Manufacturing Co.

John F. White °20,
retired businessman and farmer,
died in January 1992. He was a
member of Phi Delta Theta at
W&L. He was president of Cadi:
Hardware Co. Inc. in Cadiz, Ky
and managed a 900-acre farm fol-
lowing his retirement. .

Charles H. Hamilton °26, —
retired newspaperman, died July
1994, in Richmond. He was a me!
ber of Omicron Delta Kappa and
Lamba Chi Alpha fraternity at
W&L. Hamilton joined the
Richmond News-Leader in 1926 3
worked as a reporter, sports writ
sports editor, city editor, and
ing editor over a 65-year career
his retirement in 1991. Hamilton
was a founder of the American F
Institute and a onetime presiden
the Virginia Press Association.
writings included the book Pefer
Francisco: Soldier Extraordinary, a
biography of a Virginian who se
in the Revolutionary War. |

John 8. (Buzz) Letcher ’271
retired banker and brigadier gene
in the Marine Corps, died Aug. !
1994, near Glasgow, Va. He was
member of Kappa Alpha fraterni
and co-captain of the rowing te
W&L. After graduating, he acce
a commission as second lieutenan
in the Marine Corps and served
the next 20 years at various statio
in the United States and on foretj
and sea duty stations. Letcher sp
two years on the battleship

:

Oklahoma 1 the Pacific and com-
anded the Corps Artillery of the
m:

sch Marine Amphibious Corps at
two Jima. He was decorated with
|w

h Navy © ‘ross, the Silver Star
{ ec

Medal, and the Legion of Merit and
Cc
rired from , the Corps in 1947. He
re

curned to [Lexington and was a
re

director : and vice president of the

First Nation :1| Bank from 1948 until
1974. An as id outdoorsman and con-
‘onist, he organized a success-

scr aul
’ OS nn bi
fyl campaign In 1954 to prevent log

ging opel: da
ro place the north side of the pass

tions in Goshen Pass and

under state ownership. Letcher was
also the author of two books, On/y
yesterday in Lexington, Virginia and
One Marine's Story.

Dr. William W. Morgan °27,
retired astronomer, died June 21,
1994, in Williams Bay, Wis. Morgan
earned a B.S. in 1927 and a Ph.D in
1931 from the University of Chicago
and went to work at the Yerkes
Observatory in Williams Bay. He
began teaching at the university
several years later, becoming a full
professor in 1947. His investigations
of starlight and the distances and
arrangements of stars led to his dis-
covery of the spiral structure of the
Milky Way galaxy. A member of the
National Academy of Sciences,
Morgan received the Herschel
Medal from the Royal Astronomical
Society of London.

Robert L. Miller °28,

retired attorney, died March 6, 1994,
in Gonzales, Texas. He was a mem-
ber of Kappa Sigma fraternity at
W&L. In 1930, he graduated from

the University of ‘Texas Law School.

During World War II, Miller was a
Naval officer in the South Pacific
and commanded the armed guard
detachment on a merchant ship.
After the war, he returned to his law
practice in Gonzales County and
also owned a cattle business.

John W. Minton ’28.

retired banking executive, died July
15, 1994, in Roswell, N.M. He was a
member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraterni-
tyat W&L and graduated magna
cum laude. He was an executive with
the Equitable Building & Loan
Association, which was founded by
his father in 1913 , until its merger
with the Roswell Building & Loan
in 1972. The firms later became the
Pj ioncer Savings & Loan, and
Minton remained on the board of
that firm until 1984.

Gatewo Od Brock

retired Chemist, died a 2, 1994,

in Vj irginia Beach. He was a member

Of Phi Beta K appa and Phi Kappa

Sigma fraternity at W&L. Brock

Worked for 44 years in the fertilizer

business. Ink luding 25 years with
Obertson Chemical C orp. of

el. He retired in 1973 after 10

vith W.R. Grace & Co.

a

Clyde H. Wilson °29,

attorney, died May 13, 1994, in
Sarasota, Fla. Wilson received his
law degree from the University of
Florida College of Law in 1934.
Over the course of a 60-year legal
career, he had a private law practice
in Sarasota and served as state attor-
ney for the ‘T'welfth Judicial Circuit
of Florida. At the time of his death,

he was a senior partner in the firm of

Wilson, Johnson & Jaffer.

Maurice J. Arnd ’30L,

retired attorney, died Jan. 18, 1994,
in Pittsburgh. He was a member of
Phi Delta Theta fraternity at W&L.
From 1942 to 1945, Arnd served as a
lieutenant commander with the
Navy. He was active in the practice
of law for 51 years.

Howard W. Carson °31, °33L,
retired attorney and state senator,
died Aug. 9, 1994, in Charlottesville,
Va. He was a member of Lambda
Chi Alpha fraternity at W&L.
Carson was elected prosecuting
attorney of Fayette County, W.Va.,
in 1953. He was elected to the West
Virginia Senate in 1956 and re-elect-
ed in 1960 and 1964. When the
Legislature organized in 1961,
Carson was chosen to serve as presi-
dent of the Senate for the first of
four consecutive two-year terms. He
retired to Charlottesville in 1974.

John Boatner Chamberlain

‘37, retired banker, died March 5,
1994, in Ross, Calif. Chamberlin
worked for the Internal Revenue
Service until 1941, and he rose to
the rank of lieutenant commander
in the Navy during World War II.
After 26 years in the trust depart-
ment of Security Pacific National
Bank, Chamberlain retired in 1973.
He was president of the Marin Art
and Garden Center and director of
the California Bankers Association.

Okey K. man °31

died Aug. 5, 1994, in Shreveport,
lla. He was a member of Kappa
Alpha fraternity at W&L. He served
in the Army in the Pacific during
World War II. In 1953, Hickman
was awarded the Silver Beaver
Award by the Boy Scouts of America
for his lifelong service to scouting as
a scout, scoutmaster, and friend.

The Rev. John T. Raymond
‘31, retired Episcopal clergyman,
died May 1, 1994, in Tulare, Calif.
He was a member of Phi Kappa Psi
fraternity at W&L. After graduating,
Raymond co-published a weekly
newspaper in Niles, Mich., and later
served as chief statistician for the
Lower Michigan division of the
Home Owners’ Loan Corp. He was
ordained to the priesthood in 1945.
He was vicar of St. John Episcopal
Church in Charlotte, Mich., before
returning to California to be rector

 

 

 

Lintl Pearse: 1902-1994

Emily . Pearse, hostess emeritus at Lee Chapel and one of
gente and Lee’s most ardent devotees, died Aug. 22 in
Lexington, Va. She was 92. A native Lexingtonian, Pearse’s long asso
ciation with the University stemmed almost from birth. Her father,
Paul M. Penick, was treasurer from 1913 to 1940. Her husband.
rederic M.P. Pearse Jr. °28, °31L,

‘55, were loyal W&L alumni. In September 1969, Pearse returned

and son, Frederic M.P. Pearse III
Lexington following the death of her husband and became a hostess
in Lee Chapel, serving in this capacity until 1983. Many will remem
ber Emily Pearse as the lady who sat in the lawn chairs in front of the
chapel when weather permitted. Many, too, recall her playing the
“The W&L Swing.”

Should she be at the organ, visitors would most likely be treated

piano at the slightest hint of a request, such as

the playing of General Lee’s favorite hymn, “How Firm
Foundation.” Many a bride will remember her playing the organ fo
the wedding ceremony. One occasion that is still remembered well by
those in attendance was the dedication of the marker on ‘l'raveller’s
grave on May 8, 1971. Although the ceremony was held outside, the
windows above the marker were opened so that the strains of “Dixie”
by Emily Pearse could be heard. After her retirement, she visited the
chapel pay her respects” to General Lee as often as her health
would permit. But the last years took their toll with reports from her
friends having to suffice for visits. ‘lo the end. bits of information
about Washington and Lee and Lee Chapel helped Emily Pearse

along the way.—By Robert C. Peniston

53

returning to California to be rector
of St. James Episcopal in Sonora
from 1946 to 1948. From 1948 to
1964, he was rector of St. John the
Baptist Episcopal in Lodi. He
retired in 1972 as vicar of St. John
Episcopal in ‘Tulare.

Samuel E. Cowin °32,

retired engineer, died June 26, 1994,
in Belleair Beach, Fla. He was a
member of Phi Kappa Sigma frater-
nity at W&L. Cowin was a mechani-
cal engineer for ‘Thiokol Chemical
Corp. until his retirement.

George H. Hagadorn, Jr. °33,
retired banker, died June 22, 1994,
in Milford, Conn. He was a member
of Delta Upsilon fraternity at W&L.
Hagadorn was a vice president for
the former National Commercial
Bank & Trust Co. in Albany, N.Y.,
for nearly 40 years. He served in the
Army in World War II.

Tom W. Moore ’33,

retired judge, died in September
1991, in Pulaski, Tenn. He was a
member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraterni-
ty at W&L. He received his law
degree from Cumberland University
in 1937. During World War II, he
was a major with the i4th Corps’
Field Artillery in the South Pacific.
Moore became a senior partner with
Moore, Henry, Lewis & Cain after
the war. He was appointed circuit
court judge for the state of
‘Tennessee in 1979.

Dr. John 8. Haines °34,
genito-urinary surgeon, died June 5,
1994, in Baltimore. He was a mem-
ber of Delta Upsilon fraternity at
W&L. Haines earned an M.D. from
Johns Hopkins Medical School in
1938. In 1944, he completed his res-
idency in urology at Johns Hopkins
Hospital and entered the U.S.
Public Health Service as chief of
urology at the Hospital in San
Francisco. He was last in private
practice in Baltimore.

J. Vaughan Beale °36, ’39L,
retired banker and lawyer, died Aug.
11, 1994, in Franklin, Va. He was a
member of Delta ‘Tau Delta, Phi
Delta Phi, Omicron Delta Kappa,
and student body president at
W&L. He practiced law in Franklin
until 1940, when he received an
appointment as a special agent of
the FBI and served in the New
York, Buffalo, and Norfolk offices.
After resigning in 1947, he returned
to Franklin and the practice of law
until his death. From 1960 to 1967,
Beale served as commonwealth’s
attorney for the city of Franklin and
Southampton County. His bar affili-
ations included the Virginia State
Bar and American Bar Association.

George W. Harrison °36,
retired insurance agent, died May 2,

1994, in Henderson, N.C. He was a
member of Sigma Nu fraternity and
served as a class agent for the
Annual Fund for many years. A
retired lieutenant colonel in the
Army, Harrison received a Bronze
Star for service during World War II.
He was also awarded an European
‘Theater Medal for his participation
in the amphibious assault on Sicily
in 1943. He was later an agent with
the Equitable Life Assurance
Society until retiring in 1972.

Roland W. Hyatt Jr. ’36,
retired retailer, died Jan. 26, 1994, in
Fort Myers Beach, Fla. He was a
member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity
at W&L. Hyatt pursued a career in
retailing with A.C. Nielsen Co. in
Chicago and later with his father in
the F.A. Read Co. department store
in Freeport, Ill. He retired to
Florida in 1964.

John W. Merritt II ’38

died May 25, 1994, in Lexington,
Ky. He was a member of Beta Theta
Pi fraternity at W&L. He worked
for Brown & Williamson ‘Tobacco
Co. before World War II, and later
managed the company’s office in
the Philippines. Between 1942 and
1945, he was an Army military intel-
ligence officer in Panama, Peru, and
along the ‘Texas border. He later
started Merritt Enterprises, retiring
in 1980. Merritt also played an inte-
gral part in the establishment of Big
Brothers of Lexington and was the
organization’s first president.

Harvey L. Handley Jr. °39,
retired insurance adjuster, died July
29, 1994, in Oak Harbor, Wash. He
was a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon
fraternity and on the Ring-Tum Phi
staff at W&L. Handley was a special
agent in the Counter-Intelligence
Corps in the Philippines and Japan
in 1944 and 1945. From 1946 until
his retirement, he worked with
Farmers Insurance Group in Kansas
City and Los Angeles.

Harry C. Keller ’43,

retired oil executive, died in
October 1993. He was a member of
Sigma Nu fraternity at W&L. He
served as an ensign in the Naval Air
Corps during World War II. In 1946,
Keller joined the Wade Oil Co. as a
manger, and in 1954, he became
branch manager of Whiting Oil Co.
In 1965, he moved on to Automatic
Heat Service Inc., which he man-
aged and owned in Charlottesville.
Keller was president of the company
until his retirement in 1982.

Gordon N. Cromwell ’47,
'49L, retired attorney, died Aug.
10, 1994, in Bellevue, Wash. He was
a member of Washington State Bar,
Virginia State Bar, and Phi Delta
Phi. Cromwell served as lieutenant
commander naval aviator in the
Navy Air Corps during World War

II. From 1953 to 1984, he worked as
a tax law attorney in Bellevue.

Irving Joel ’48,

former president and chief execu-
tive officer of AJD Corp., died Aug.
5, 1994. He was a member of Zeta
Beta Tau fraternity at W&L. In
1960, he started his own hat com-
pany in South Richmond and, by
1972, had built the largest hat com-
pany in the industry. Colgate-
Palmolive Co. acquired AJD in 1978
and kept Joel on as president. In
November 1981, he bought the
company back and began acquiring
other hat companies. Joel sold the
company in 1992 to Hicks, Muse of
Dallas and remained as president
and CEO until his 1993 resignation.

Calvin P. Hatcher °49,
hospital administrator, died July 9,
1994. He was a member of Kappa
Sigma fraternity at W&L. During
World War II, he served in the
Navy. Hatcher later earned a mas-
ter’s of public health administration
from Yale University in 1953 and
worked at Columbia Presbyterian
Medical Center in New York City
until his death.

R. Bleakley James Jr. ’50L,
retired judge, died Aug. 1, 1994, in
Fairfax, Va. He was a member of Pi
Kappa Phi fraternity at W&L. In
1951, he began his legal career with
the War Claims Commission. He
later worked for a title corporation,
the Southern Railway Co., the Air
Force, and the Navy. James joined
the Post Office Department in 1959
and served there until leaving to
work with the Board of Contract
Appeals in 1970. In 1973, he was
named chief administrative judge.
After retiring from government ser-
vice in 1978, James was counsel to
the law firm of Braude, Magulies,
Sacks & Rephan.

Alvin N. (Bud) Laupheimer
"50 died May 31, 1994, in New
York. He was a member of Phi
Epsilon Pi fraternity at W&L.

Amzi G. Barber Jr. °59,

retired teacher, died June 24, 1994,
in Fort Walton Beach, Fla. He was a
member of Sigma Chi, Graham-Lee
Society, and the debating team at
W&L. In 1960, Barber earned his
master’s in history from the
University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill. He later taught in
Pennsburg, Pa., Vicksburg, Miss.,
and Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

John L. Reynolds Jr. °60,
rehabilitation administrator, died
June 4, 1994. He received his B.A.
from Florida State University in
1960 and worked for Sears-Roebuck
as a member of the department
manager’s group merchandising
staff from 1962 to 1967. Reynolds
later worked as an account execu-
tive for Walston & Co. Inc., before

   
   
   
    
    
 
  
  
 
 
  

becoming program Coordinator of |
the neighborhood rehabilitation
division in Metropolitan Dade
County, Fla.

H. Edward Rietze []] 60,
businessman, died July 22, 1994. y
was a member of Phi Gamma Det
fraternity at W&L. He was Owner |
and director of Lithotripters Inc. ;
Fayetteville, N.C. ‘*?
M. Brent Arthur ’62
died June 2, 1994. He was a
ber of Sigma Alpha Epsilon frare
ty at W&L. From 1963 to 1967, he
served as director of Diversified _
Education and Research Corp. He
later worked as secretary-treasurer
of Arcaro Development Corp. Fe ‘
the past nine years, he was involve
with the export/import business
tobacco products.

-
é

Friend

Mildred McCue Brownlee, —
secretary to the dean of stud
nearly 30 years, died Aug. 7, 196
Raleigh, N.C. She was 93. Bre
received her bachelor’s degree fr
Bellhaven College and retired f

W&L in 1972. $

Missing Persons

The following individuals a
listed as “unlocated” In
Washington and Lee’s alum
records. If you have a curre
address for any of these
alumni, please do us—and
them—a favor and send wo
to the Alumni Office, Wash-
ington and Lee University,
Lexington, VA 24450.

Mag

Class of °45

John E. Amis

Roger J. Bear Jr.
Ralph H. Bookmyer Jr.
Dr. James V. Bradley
William A. Davidson
Landon A. Dowdey II
Marvin Finell

John Gonzales
Laurence E. Gordon Jr.
Edwin J. Gorman
Peter M. Hazell
Russell W. Ingham Jr.
Robert S. Jaster
James B. Kirk

Walter H. Lee

James E.H. McCauley
William H. Naylor
William M. Otter Jr.
W.W. Tatgenhorst Jr.
William H. ‘Toney
John D. Waring III
F.R. Doane Williams
George Zack

    

Class ° f 50
Alexander S. Andrews Jr.
pavid R. Bundy
Galley B. Critzer

| con F. Douglass III
George 5. Engle
Charles J. Farrington Jr.
Iver Fishman

William M. Fittge
| pilly J. Franklin
Richard R. French
Harry J. Gregory
Reginald Y.S. Hallett
Lester C. Leonard Jr.
William R. Linton
Ralph F. McBride
Dr. Timothy G. McDonald
Edward T. McMath
William S. Metzel
Peter C. Meyer
Allen W. Phelps
Robert D. Phillips Jr.
Robert E. Rickles
Edwardo A. Santaella
Ford Stephens
Arthur H. ‘Train
William C. Wood

Class of ’50L
Archibald H. Crittenden

Class of ’55
Fred B. Bear

Stuart A. Beckley
Selden W. Clark
Richard G. Grose
Robert L. Guyer
Joseph Hanaway
Erwin O. Hentz Jr.
Thomas J. Holley
John W. Howard
Leslie H. Johnson
Robert E. Kelley
John P. Manning
Peter R. McPherson
Ronald J. McQuillin
Robert J. Murphy
Thearon H. Parsons Jr.
Peter S.S. Pell

Ralph C. Porter III
William S. Prowell
Charles K. Slick
Donald E.J. Stewart
Arthur D. ‘Thomas
Henry E. Weise
Corbin Woodward Jr.

Class of °55L.

Donald S. Cohen
Franklin F. Martin

 

 

Class of 60

Rufus Ansley

John F. Betts

Alfred O. Blackmar V

Henry L. Braddock

Joseph P. Campbell

Peter E. Haiman

George G. Hancock Jr.

John B. Holt

John E. Hopkins
Obert L. Hylton
Obert C, Jordan

-_

The Rev. Carl H. Douglass Jr.

Dr. William H. Koon
Peter R. Merrill
Russell J. Mickler
Jon R. Murray
Michael D. Poole
Ronald D. Rubin
M.D. Sensabaugh Jr.
Howard P. Vanetten
John W. Williams

Brig. Gen. William T. Williams IV

Raymond L. Winstead Jr.
Howard C. Wolf Jr.

Class of ’60L.

James E. Buchholtz

Class of ’65
Christian H. Clarke
Dr. Ross S. Conn

John C. Crissman
Dennis A. Demots
George E. Dickman III
David N. Garver Jr.
Ralph L. Gillum
Joseph D. Gorman
‘Theodore W. Graves Jr.
William F. Gray Jr.
William L. Hilton Jr.
Robert P. Kennedy Jr.
Wallace W. Kennedy
F. Lamar Lamb

Bryan A. Lane

Gregori Lebedev
William D.S. Lee
William R. McBrine
Phillip R. Oliver Jr.
Stephen T. Owen
Robert B. Phillips
Charles M. Preston
Windell G. Reading Jr.
Louis C. Roberts III
Richard E. Rogers
James M. Sams Jr.
Robert L. Scott
Joseph A. Tvedt Jr.
Milton S. Van Hoy
Lewis A. Vance
Edmund A.P. West

Class of ’65L

John E. Gilda
Ronald P. Hammers
William D. Hurley
‘Thomas M. Krook
‘Thomas L. Lawson
Harry S. White Jr. -

Class of ’70

Glenn A. Balber
John E. Bertrand
Richard W. Bignon
Allen Z. Bogert Jr.
Joseph D. Bowdoin
Lloyd W. Bromley
J. Reade Carruth Jr.
David S. Cumming
‘Thomas C. Dawson II
Keith P. Decker
Jeffrey S. Deitz
Jason M. Feld
Russell J. Fryman
Spencer B. Gay
James S. Gilman
John C. Grandin

Richard H. Hogan
William G. Johnson
‘Thomas C. Leaming
Charles B. McNiel
‘Thomas F. Mitchell Jr.
S. Jonas Orrling
Lenard M. Parkins
Scott D. Petersen
John S. Schechter
Daniel J. Shapiro
Charles R. Shelton IV
Robert C. Skinner
Frederick A. Smith
Richard G. Strause
David M. Waelder
Mark L. Warner
James T. White

John W. Wright

Class of ?70L

James S. Dix
Morgan E. Moses

Class of °75
Ferg M. Alleman III
William C. Bishop Jr.
Randall E. Blatt
Jeffrey H. Bothen

Lawrence S. Bowen
Michael J. Bracken

George E. Cunningham Jr.

James D. Davis

David P. Dempsher
R. Bruce Donnellan
Richert J. Drewien
Rodney A. Ferrandino
John C. Galyon

Mark A. Gatlin

David G. Graham
Evan W. Hauck
Milton E. Higgins
James D.H. Hooker
Edward C. Hopkins
‘Timothy L. Huey
Richard A. Jaeggi
Ricardo A. Johnson
Gary H. Kilian
Richard I. Kirschman
Jonathan A. Lawson Jr.
Alvis G. Lee

Kevin W. Lockwood
‘Thomas T. Lundberg
Dale B. Marden
Kenneth L. Maxon
Dr. Joseph S. McCabe IV
Lacy W. McClarty
Daniel K. Moore
‘Thomas B. Morris
Ronald R. Mutispaugh
Charles M. Rohrer
Philip D. Saracin
James H. Scholl Jr.
David P. Schrack
Mark R. Senal

James J. Shorten
Henry ‘Taylor III
Richard B. ‘Thompson
David S. Wallace

Dale V. Watkins Jr.
Robert A. Wilkinson Jr.

Class of 80

Victor T. Alessandro
Joseph T. Baker
Marc A. Birenbaum

L. Boyd Breeding
Ronald H. Brooks
Darrell G. Campbell
J. Michael Carlow
Craig A. Chesley
Douglas A. Clegg
‘Thomas J. Confort
Neal H. Crider

John A. Dickson
Christopher C. Dunne
Robert M. Eisdorfer
Jeffrey B. Fernandez
Gregg H. Glickstein
James D. Grisebaum
Peter J. Hanway

Dr. O. James Hart III
Steven C. Herold
James G. Hind
Stephen F. Janeck
Kurt H. Kammerer

S. Dewey Keesler Jr.
Bradley K. Kesel
Mark E. Klaus

Jay C. Korn

Donald S. Laourette Jr.
Brian Leshner
Wander J. Lorentz de Haas
Daniel M.C. Martin
John R. Martin Jr.
Barksdale W. McNider
Scott W. Minnerly
Robert K. Moir
Gregory A. Nerz
Robert J. O'Donnell Jr.
George B. Peaslee
Clark L. Perryman
Howard A. Pillsbury
Jeffrey M. Robitaille
Samuel H. Rogers III
‘Thomas M. Rucker
James P. Ryan

Jack M. Sanders

F. Will Sherman
David C. Strachan
James W. ‘Thomas
Mark G. Walker
William ‘Tl. Watson IV
John M. White

Class of “SOL,
Elizabeth B. Hecksel
Willie H. Jamerson
Patrick K. McLaughlin
John X. Miller
Heather L. Myers

Class of ’85
Ronald E. Creech Jr.
Richard A. DeForest
William F. Kidwell
Sean R. Lewis
Claude B. Lipscomb
Brian H. McCausland
W. Robert Payne IV

Class of °90

S. Ward Eisinger

J. Bretton Elder

David C. Kahn
Frederick B. Kieckhefer
Steven H. Long
Kearney S. Loughlin

R. Michael Pack

R. Jefferson Salisbury

55

‘58

Photo: William R. Goodman Jr

ee

Blink, and you missed it. Hampered
by a low-visibility advertising campaign,
lukewarm reviews, and very limited dis-
tribution, Foreign Student died quietly
following its release July 29, grossing
approximately $105,000 in two weeks
before dropping off Variery’s national
box-office tally. The
film arrives in video
stores on Dec. 21.

Very loosely based
1986 French
bestseller by Philippe

on the

Labro °58, Foreign Stu-
dent weathered a long
and difficult gestation in its six-year
journey from page to screen. Some-
thing, alas, was lost in the translation.
An old-fashioned valentine with an R-
rated barn scene tucked bewilderingly
in the middle, the film plays like a
movie made by foreigners for whom
English is a second language. It also has
more laughs than any comedy this year.
Which is good, because there’s sim-
ply very little drama to drive this vehi-
cle: Philippe Leclerc (Marco Hofschnei-
der) arrives on the campus of Asheland-
Stuart University in 1956, unaccustomed
to the American ways of sports, women,
and song. He winds up in the infirmary
after trying out for the football team and
finds a big brother in Cal (Richard
Johnson): quarterback, ladies’ man, and
eventually problem alcoholic (one of
many stray plotlines tossed into the
screenplay by Menno Meyjes, who did

56

 

1a

mn
LRSM LLL LAL Ld Ro nA
(right, with Hofschneider) could save uae r i ,
which drew poor crowds to its Paris op aD 7
ALLEL LL a, e a

Alice Walker much better in 7he Co/or
Purple). He also goes looking for love in
all the wrong places and soon finds him-
self in the middle of a interracial triangle
with worldly housekeeper/teacher April
(Robin Givens) and spacey belle from
hell Sue Ann (Charlotte Ross).

Fans of the novel are bound to be
disappointed by the movie, which most
conspicuously scuttles the suicide that
opens Labro’s story and supplies much
of the book’s dramatic oomph. The
“Wonder Years” -like voiceover, with the
adult Philippe’s remembrances, is occa-
sionally poignant but more frequently
dreadful (“I looked for my April but she
vanished in December”).

After a while, though, such uninten-
tionally funny moments have a way of
turning this movie from failed drama to
high farce. The roll in the hay in the
sugar shack is accompanied by the
strains of an anachronistic love ballad,
“You Turn My World Around,” and the
acting is as uneven as first-timer Eva
Sereny’s direction is uncertain. Europa,
Europa star Hofschneider, in his
English-language debut, rises above the
morass to etch a believable portrait of

Bat

 

Philippe, a stranger in a strange land.
Givens looks good enough to be the
Good Housekeeping cover girl—and a little
out of place dusting bookshelves in rural
Virginia. But the Oscar for bad acting
belongs to former soap star Ross, who
turns up in a fright wig looking like
Jodie Foster’s charae-
ter in The Accused.
Critics rightly saved
most of their hosan-
nas for the jook joint
scene with blues leg-
ends Howlin’ Wolf
(“Roc” star Charles
Dutton) and Sonny Boy Williamson
(Hinton Battle). But it’s the extras, and
the campus itself, that make this film a
must-see. Besides enjoying the majesty
of the Colonnade and Lee Chapel, other
pleasures abound—in one particularly
fawning close-up, Heather Aussiker “94
embodies the ’50s feminine ideal to per-
fection. A couple of students have
speaking roles, and if you’re looking
really closely, there’s a certain (ahem)
editor of a certain alumni magazine in
the William Faulkner scene.

Thumbs up? Thumbs down? It really
doesn’t matter. It’s more like watching 4
home movie—a very expensive home
movie. To paraphrase Forrest Gump,
Foreign Student is \ike a box of choco-
lates—less a bon-bon than a bon-bomb.
My advice? Rent the video. Invite your
friends. You'll be laughing about it for
days.—By Dick Anderson

i
7

 

Non-Profit Q
LS. Postage
f a
Monel
Avion lelii cca

MTOM Hieace eli em oom Gniihuoniia

PoOtiiuc aera ale

 

 

