The Washington and Lee University Alumni Magazine
SUMMER 1995

a

| aa a aa a aa ae a

ee “a

— etnies
’ :

tate

    

 

 

ee

 

 

—-a =

     
    
 
  
 

 

eth)
yy

   

A x +
& = ;
. ’ = * =
Fig
ans wi '
~«* os
aS
S|
ad oy EP tee
< - Pts :
: Sh be
~~ na
P| a ra -
a rT J
— Ps
a a
- i
The road to commencement: Ay

   

A Washington and Lee senior
checks his cap en route to the f
Baccalaureate service May 31.

  

PEAT URE

12 / The Williams School.

Washington and Lee’s school of commerce, economics, and politics

is named for one of the University’s dearest friends—Ernie Williams °38.

14 / Wolfe in Progress.
In between chapters of his new, not-quite-finished novel, Zhe Mayflies,

Tom Wolfe ’51 explains why books will weather the new information age.

18 / Class Agent.

Gentleman dealmaker Stan Kamen *49L livens up The Agency,
Frank Rose ’71’s hidden history of William Morris and showbiz.

20 / Live and in Person.
Roger Mudd comes back to Washington and Lee—not as a

“gummy alumnus,” but as a spring term professor for 18 lucky students.

23 /Men of War.

By August 1944, some 2,853 W&L alumni were serving in the armed forces.

Most of them came home alive; 136 did not. These are their stories.

DEPARTMENT

2 / From the Alumni President.

“When you’re passionate about something...the work comes easy.”

3 / Letters.
Recalling the C School’s Mrs. Z; the GALA celebration in Lexington.

4 / The Colonnade.

Commencement remarks of humor and wisdom. Also: remembering the music of

Robert Turner; a dream hoops matchup; and the treasure of ‘T’raveller’s grave.

30 /W&L Law.

Twenty years later, professor Brian Murchison returns to Africa to a free press.

32 / The Generals’ Report.

A national title for W&L women’s doubles; a hard-fought win in the
Lee-Jackson Classic; and ODAC titles in golf and women’s track to boot.

36 / Alumni News.

Reunions and remembrances: Alumni Weekend in words and pictures.

Also: our annual salute to dads and grads; and this year’s Hall of Fame inductees.

42 / Class Notes.

Sen. Elliot Schewel ’45 warms to retirement; Reg Garner ’74 spices up
Texas Pete; and Frank Billingsley 82 forecasts the weather in Houston.

56 / Last Word.

Golf and Gustav: John Wilson’s farewell tour.

On the cover: Writer Tom Wolfe °51, photographed in
General Lee’s office in Lee Chapel by Jeremy Green.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

A. Stevens Miles Jr. 51, Rector
John W. Elrod, President

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC.
OFFICERS
E. Neal Cory Il ‘77

President (Louisville, Ky.)

Hatton C.V. Smith ‘73

Vice President (Birmingham, Ala.)

James D. Farrar Jr. ‘74

Secretary and Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

Robert W.H. Mish Ill ‘76

Associate Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

DIRECTORS

Michael D. Armstrong *77 (Atlanta, Ga.)

R.K. Barton III °63 (Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.)
Walter S. Blake °72 (Dallas, Texas)

T. Talbott Bond °51 (Baltimore, Md.)

Matthew J. Calvert ’75, °79L (Richmond, Va.)
Ben S. Gambill Jr. °67 (Nashville, Tenn.)
William E. Garrison III °76 (Richmond, Va.)

B. Dallas Hagewood "90 (Atlanta, Ga.)

E. Phifer Helms °’74 (Charlotte, N.C.)

J. Michael Jenkins III °64 (Montgomery, Ala.)

H. Drake Leddy °71 (San Antonio, Texas)

L. Richards McMillan II °69 (New Orleans, La.)
Henry “Skip” Nottberg III °71 (Kansas City, Mo.)
Alexa A. Salzman °89 (San Francisco, Calif.)
Jackson R. Sharman III °83 (Washington, D.C.)
Martin E. Stein Jr. ’74 (Jacksonville, Fla.)

R. Alan Tomlin *69 (Houston, Texas)

James M. Turner Jr. 67, °71L (Roanoke, Va.)
Tinkham Veale III 69 (Devon, Pa.)

Donald W. Weir Jr. °72 (Shreveport, La.)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
OFFICERS

David D. Redmond ’66, ‘69L
President (Richmond, Va.)
Robert M. Couch ‘78, ‘82L

Vice President (Birmingham, Ala.)

LAW COUNCIL

David L. Baird Jr. °71L (Dallas, Texas)

Charles M. Berger ’68L (Charlotte, N.C.)

Alfred J.T. Byrne ’65, *68L (Washington, D.C.)
James M. Costan ’74L (Washington, D.C.)
Richard DeFronzo *70L (Calabasas, Calif.)
William R. Goodell ’80L (Atlanta, Ga.)

Robert J. Grey Jr. °76L (Richmond, Va.)
Theodore D. Grosser °77L (Cincinnati, Ohio)
Elizabeth Toni Guarino ’77L (Washington, D.C.)
The Hon. William B. Hill Jr. °74, °77L (Atlanta, Ga.)
Carol L. Hoshall *83L (Alexandria, Va.)

Heather A. King ’88L (Clemmons, N.C.)

John D. Klinedinst ’71, °78L (San Diego, Calif.)
Tabor R. Novak Jr. °66, °69L (Montgomery, Ala.)
The Hon. W. Ray Price ’78L (Jefferson City, Mo.)
Laurie A. Rachford ’84L (Houston, Texas)

B. Cary Tolley II] °78L (Darien, Conn.)

Patricia A. Van Allan ’80L (Houston, Texas)
Wilson F. Vellines Jr. 68, °73L (Staunton, Va.)
Hugh V. White Jr. °61L (Richmond, Va.)

John A. Wolf 69, °72L (Baltimore, Md.)

From the Alumni President

Parting Remarks

The mission of our University is to
educate students, and we sent another
500 or so newly minted alumni into the
real world from our law and undergrad-
uate classes in May and June, respec-
tively. The Alumni Association consid-
ers students as “alumni-in-residence,”
and we are pleased to welcome this
newest group of men and women to
Our permanent alumni ranks. Please
stay in touch as you settle in wide and

 

various parts of the world, your new
careers, and other post-W&L pursuits.

I would guess that many of you From Wittpenn to Cory: the gavel passes,
remember well your own graduation
from Washington and Lee and for some of you the mixed emotions of that day. Close

 
   
 
  
 
   
   
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  

to 700 alumni celebrated their graduation by returning to campus for Reunior
Weekend in May. Always the highlight of our alumni activities calendar, it was greg
to see so many people back on campus renewing ties with classmates, faculty, the
campus, and Washington and Lee. You are indeed welcome. back at any time and
would encourage you to visit soon and often.

We can also celebrate two milestones in the development area: the successful co
pletion of another record Annual Fund and the successful completion of the capite
campaign. The Annual Fund provides vital annual operating funds and helps us te
continue to offer one of the best buys in undergraduate education and to maintai
and grow a top-drawer law school. ‘The capital campaign will contribute much-needed
resources to endowments, financial aid, and bricks-and-mortar projects such as the
science center currently under construction. A sincere thanks to the thousands whe
contributed and volunteered so that we can celebrate these two achievements.

We can also celebrate the beginning of John Elrod’s tenure as Washington and
Lee’s 22nd president. John has already been out speaking to various alumni group
and will be on the road quite a bit during his first few months. He inherits a very
strong University thanks in many respects to John Wilson’s accomplishments over thé
past 12-plus years. In recognition of his contributions and achievements, the Alumni
Association named Wilson an honorary alumnus during Reunion Weekend.

Finally, we celebrate the completion of the terms of four directors from th
Washington and Lee Alumni Board and five directors from the Law Council.
Likewise, it is a pleasure to welcome new directors to the respective boards. These
are your representatives, to be sure, so let them know if you have any ideas or sugges=
tions for the Alumni Association or Law Council. My personal congratulations to our
newly elected officers of the Alumni Board, Neal Cory ’77 of Louisville, Ky., presi-
dent; and Hatton Smith ’73 of Birmingham, vice president.

It has been a pleasure to serve this past year as the president of our Alumni
Association. Some have called this “work,” yet when you are passionate about some-
thing—as I am about Washington and Lee—the work comes easy. Thank you.

Robert K. Wittpenn °82
President, WEL Alumni Assoctation

 

—

Letters

Mrs. Z and the C School

| was saddened to read in the May 12
issue of the Ring-tum Phi that Anne
Zeigler had passed away (In Memoriam,
page 55). While I haven’t been back to
the campus in many years, her death
nevertheless left me feeling as though it
were only yesterday that I'd seen her
sitting at her desk with that contagious
grin on her face. I was sorry to read that
her passing came after a long illness of
which I was unaware. Perhaps she or her
family wished to keep it private, but I
wish her illness had been reported in
the Phi or the A/umni Magazine. | regret
not having had the chance to contact
Mrs. Z (as she was known to many) and
let her know that I have thought of her
often since leaving Lexington.

Mrs. Z had an endearing personality
that made a person immediately feel at
home around her. She was a bright spot
for me on many days in the C School, as
I’m sure she was to countless others.

Mrs. Z was one of the people I truly
looked forward to running into when I
next returned to campus. I’m deeply
saddened that | won’t get the chance to
enjoy her humor and kind nature again,
but I know as long as I remember her
with warmth and fondness, I will indeed
find her presence there when I next
stroll amid the beauty of my beloved
alma mater.

Andrew Caruthers ’87
Los Angeles

GALA Celebration

Reunion Weekend in May marked
the first time that I returned to
Lexington since graduating in 1953.
Why so long? The reasons are many—
some based on economics, some the
result of pure procrastination. Others
Were Predicated on fear of rejection.

Upon graduation, I served a couple of
Years on active duty in the Navy, got

married, and went to law school. My
wife and I had three children. Later
came the realization that I was gay,
which was followed by separation and
eventually, divorce. Our children’s col-
lege education and weddings followed.

As the years passed, my yearning to
return to Lexington grew. Questions
arose. Not having a wife to accompany
me, would I fit in? How would I explain
so many years without a wife? If I dared
to be honest and shared that I was gay,
would I be rejected? I thought I knew
all the answers, but in fact, I did not.

With the publication of my “coming
out” letter in the A/umni Magazine in
January 1993, a whole new world opened
up to me. By way of phone and through
correspondence, I came to meet other
gay alumni. We talked, laughed, and
joked as though we had known each
other a lifetime. The bond was instanta-
neous and continues.

In April, GALA, the Gay and Lesbian
Alliance of W&L students and alumni,
announced that, together with the law
school’s Committee on Gay and Lesbian
Social Issues, it was hosting a reception
for gay and lesbian alumni at the law
school on May 13, followed later that
evening with a private party. Although
this reunion weekend did not include
my class year, I knew this was my time
to return to Lexington—the time to
meet the gay W&L alumni with whom I
had been corresponding for the past two
years, and President-elect John Elrod,
with whom I had exchanged letters.

My first view of the campus in 42
years was, to a certain extent, over-
whelming by the number of changes,
The one thing that had not changed was
the warm-hearted feeling one gets when
in Lexington—the self-assurance that
you are welcome no matter how long
you have been away. In addition to the
campus, I visited many sites that were
important to me: my fraternity house,
Delta Tau Delta, which unfortunately is
now vacant; the Barclay sisters’ home
across from the Delta house where I
lived my junior and senior years, where
everyone was welcome and treated like
family (a world-renowned carver, Mary
Barclay carved the University mace
which is still in use today).

The gay and lesbian reception was
first-class and well-attended, even with
the short notice. The warm spirit and
feeling of acceptance that permeated
the room was obvious from the faces of
those in attendance, not all of whom
were gay or lesbian.

On my last day, I visited with John
Elrod for 20 to 30 minutes. It was an
open, frank, enjoyable, and meaningful
meeting. I came away with the feeling
that he will listen to and not ignore us.
This shows a person of compassion and
willingness not to prejudge—indeed, a
significant first step. My other meetings
with administration officials were warm,
friendly, and worthwhile.

My return to W&L was a very memo-
rable and enjoyable event which will not
be forgotten. To my GALA friends,
thank you for going the extra mile for
me. To the gay and lesbian alumni who
have not come back for a visit, now is
the time. GALA is planning a home-
coming event and sponsors other gather-
ings during the year in Lexington and
elsewhere. For details, write to GALA,
P.O. Box 681, Lexington, VA 24450.

Alan Weber °53
West Hollywood, Calif.

Why, Why, Why, Why, Why

Why does the A/umni Magazine sud-
denly seem readable? Why have you for-
saken self-glorification and clumsy
appeals by greed to vanity? Why is my
conscience beginning to stir like spring
stirs other things? Why has this institu-
tion begun to seem relevant? ... Why do
I think you might not publish this?

Ed Ellis ’52, ’56L
New Smyrna Beach, Fla.

The Alumni Magazine of Washington
and Lee welcomes letters. Address corre-
spondence to: University Editor, Washington
and Lee, Publications Office, Lexington, VA
24450. Letters may also be faxed to (540)
463-8024. All letters should include the
author's name, address, and daytime phone
number. Letters selected for publication may
be edited for length, content, and style.

e Colonnade

It is tradition for the president of
Washington and Lee to deliver the
commencement address at the close of
each academic year, but this one—John
Wilson’s last as president—was a partic-
ularly special one for the seniors, par-
ents, faculty, and friends in attendance.

“It’s now time to say farewell, and to
wish every member of the class all the
happiness possible in this mortal
world,” Wilson said. Noting his newly
bestowed status as an honorary member
of the Class of °53 during Alumni
Weekend in May (page 36), Wilson said,
tongue secured firmly in cheek, “We
are not today leaving a perfect place. As
an alumnus, I now have the right to
offer my opinions on such matters with
certitude and possessiveness...I can
wag my finger at President Elrod and to
admonish him to keep this place just as
we find it on this first day of June 1995,
and to make darned sure that the fresh-
men next year are more like us than
those nerds you let in last September.”

He added: “I ask you now, as you
prepare to leave your University, that
you think from time to time of those
who were here before you and those
who are to follow. In an important sense

Wilson to Seniors: ‘Not an Easy Place to Leave’

Commencement Exercises Marked with Humor and Wisdom

 

you are today taking up a deserved
space in a long line of graduates—a line
that stretches back over two-and-a-half
centuries. Their footsteps still echo
along the old, worn brick of the
Colonnade, and it was they who wore
the deep indentations in the steps lead-
ing into Payne Hall and Robinson, just
as you have added to that deep pattern
of use in your own time here. Those
who came before you made the place
possible for you.”

Fifty years from now, he added, per-

 

 

Undergraduate degrees were awarded to 335
sentors (the capped-and-gowned individual
on the left) during commencement exercises

June 1. Juris doctor di PTCES DWETt awarded tj
students (the capped-andk

/ 15 third VEQ7 law

 

haps jokingly, “the president of Wash.
ington and Lee will be admonishing the
graduating class to remember with gratj-
tude the wonderful Class of 1995. ‘Res
member this golden class,’ she will say.” ~

... This is not an easy place to leave,
for it is a place of great beauty and q
place filled with lovely people, close
friends, faculty and staff, classmates, not
to mention the Lexingtonians we have
all come to know and like very much...]
ask you, then, to thank your parents for
the gift of these four years—or five, of
six—and thank your teachers and your
friends and the friends of the Univer-
sity, all of whom conspired together to
make the gift possible. Repay them in
the only way you possibly can, by living
good lives and by making similar sacri-
fices for your own children, helping
them to start off well along the path of
achievement and civic and personal
excellence. That is the best way to
thank your parents for what they have
given to you—to show them that you do
indeed understand one of life’s greatest
paradoxes, that true happiness does

   
   
   
    
  
  

“Fifty years from nov
the president of |
Washington and Lee
will be admonishing
the graduating class
to remember w
gratitude the wond
Class of 1995. ©
‘Remember this gold

class,’ she will say
*

JOHN D. WI

 

come to those who care first about oth-
ers and not themselves, who learn to
give deeply in love or compassion, who
can reach out beyond themselves to
make happen something good, some-
thing helpful to others.

“Godspeed from all of us here. Come
back often to the home that will always
be open to you regardless of where you
live or how many years separate you
from it. Good luck and good fortune to
you all.

“This ceremony is concluded.”

Honors for Head, Hoffman

Honorary degrees were conferred
upon James W. Head III ’64 and H.
William Hoffman °53 during commence-
ment Ceremonies June 1. Head founded
the planetary program at Brown
University and is one of the nation’s
eminent space scientists, known particu-
larly for his work on the Apollo and
Magellan missions. Hoffman left the
Study of law to pursue his new inter-
©St—writing—and published his first
Bevel, The Trumpet Unblown, in 1955. He
has since published nine other novels
and three collections of short stories.

 

Baccalaureate Message:
‘Make a Difference’

“You who are privileged by birth and
education bear more of a responsibility
than others just because you are better
prepared and positioned to contribute in
ways that will make a difference,”
President-elect John Elrod told W&L
seniors in his baccalaureate address on
May 31. “With privilege, good fortune,
and elite educations, you are surely pre-
pared in ways that most others are not

to make profoundly positive differences
in your communities by joining the
myriad organizations and associations
that make communities work.”

He added: “Our America is not alto-
gether different from Lee’s. We are not
divided and devastated by war, to be
sure, but we are managing to wall our-
selves off from one another, and we are
shouting at rather than talking with
each other in the halls of power and in
our local communities.”

Elrod further asked graduates to con-
sider the power of W&L’s commitment
to honor and civility “to transform indi-
viduals and communities when it is as
courageously expressed as in the life of
Lee....You surely know by now and
from living four years here that these
are not frilly words or airy ideals. They
are the lifeblood of community.”

Law Commencement:
Lee, Brown, and Plessy

The Hon. John Minor Wisdom ’25,
senior circuit judge of the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, delivered
the commencement address to the
139th graduating class of the school of
law May 21. Juris doctor degrees were
awarded to 115 third-year students.

“I’m going to do something different
today,” began the New Orleans native

 

 

 

and emeritus trustee. “I shall talk longer
than I was supposed to talk—that’s not
different—but I promise I shall not bore
you with vapid generalities purporting
to serve as guidelines for your future
success in life and in law. Instead I shall
give a serious talk on an important case
that was in the Supreme Court 100 years
ago”—namely Plessy v. Ferguson, the
source of the “separate but equal” doc-

trine, “the thin disguise covering Jim

Crow laws until Brown v. Board of

Education tore it to ribbons, although it
did not specifically overrule it.”

After a thorough discussion of Ameri-
can racial and judicial history from
Reconstruction to the present, framed
by these two important cases, Wisdom
continued: “I have said on a number of

 

 

=a ve.
; ae

—

occasions and still believe, the 13th and
14th Amendments are both color-blind
and color-conscious....Justice must
become color conscious when it
becomes necessary to remedy the evils
of past discrimination based on color or
to prevent new evils arising. Some
would call this affirmative action.”

Robert E. Lee died too early for any-
one to make a rational prediction as to
how he would have felt about Péessy v.
Ferguson, he concluded, “but I have a
strong feeling that if he could have been
alive during Brown v. Education, he
would have approved Brown.”

“We often speak of ourselves as a
community, but what do we mean by
that?” asked law school dean Barry
Sullivan. “Many things, to be sure. But

“I promise I shall not
bore you with vapid
generalities purporting
to serve as guidelines for
your future success in
life and law. Instead |
shall give a serious talk
on an important case
that was in the Supreme
Court 100 years ago.”
+

JOHN MINOR WISDOM '25

 

 

 

H , lun / On

Ve plane-

Brown l rsity, and

one of the most important, I think, igs
the pride we take in each other’s accom-
plishments.... There is not one of our
graduates who has not in some way
made this community and this place @
richer one in the past three years.”

Shepherd, Yoder Top GPAs

Biology major William P. Shepherd of
Atlanta was named class valedictorian
for 1995. The W&L senior compiled a
grade-point average of 4.126 on a 4.330
scale during his four years at the
University. He was awarded the bache-
lor of science degree summa cum laude.

Thomas Christopher Yoder ’95L of
Millersburg, Ohio, received the John W.
Davis Prize for Law for the highest
cumulative GPA. The BNA Law Stu
dent Award for the most satisfactory
scholastic progress in the final year went
to Stacy Drew Gould of Santa Fe, N.M.

Nominations Invited for
Dean of the College

President John W. Elrod announced
recently that the search for his successor
as vice president of academic affairs and
dean of the college will commence in
late August. Alumni are encouraged ©
nominate persons by sending a letter of
recommendation to Elrod at Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, VA
24450 or by E-mail at jelrod@wlu.edu.

 

 

In a letter inviting Robert Stewart to
Washington and Lee for an interview 1n
1954, dean James Graham Leyburn
warned him that “there has never been
a full-time man in music on our faculty
_A new man would, in effect, have to

his appointment by the high rep-

justify anes
utation he built up for his own work and
for music.” Stewart's inter-

view with Leyburn was con-
ducted primarily at the

piano, with the two of them

playin
“Everyone who met him
liked him,” Leyburn said
later, “and the more we saw

g sonatas together.

of him the more we thought
he was a thoroughly nice
person.”

From a fledgling one-
man music department,
Stewart developed a strong
curriculum in music appre-
ciation, history, composi-
tion, and theory, retiring as
professor of music emeritus
at Washington and Lee in
1988. He died June 27 in
Lexington at the age of 77.

A native of Buffalo, N.Y.,
Stewart held master of
music degrees in music
education, violin, and com-
position from the American
Conservatory in Chicago.
He served in the Naval
Reserve from 1941 to 1945,
and taught at the American
Conservatory and the Arkan-
sas State Teachers College
before coming to W&L.

Over his 34-year tenure,

 

Stewart also served as pro-
fessor of music and head of
the department of music
and drama (later renamed
the department of fine arts).
He was director of the Glee
Club and the John A. Graham Brass
Choir and was instrumental in the for-
mation of the informal student singing
froup, the Sazaracs. Following his retire-
ment, Stewart continued to compose
and perform frequently. He participated
“nnually in Sonoklect, the festival of
new music at W&L founded in 1989 by

Robert Stewart:

his successor, professor of music Mar-
garet Brouwer, whom he later married.
Stewart enjoyed pushing the edge of
new music. He told the A/umni Magazine
in 1982 that most of the modern music
written at the time was “retrogressive, a
return to romanticism”—a trend he
deplored. “Well, I’m not going to cop

 

out,” he declared. “I want to continue
exploring new possibilities.”

Critics often responded favorably to
those new possibilities. A review in The
New York Times said: “Mr. Stewart
strikes out decisively with 20th century
materials...He cuffs them into strong,
logical forms that compel attention.”

199)

The New York Herald Tribune said:
“Robert Stewart’s Five Miniatures for
Piano contain musical ideas of even
more potential—the big whomping,
crashing sounds of the piece, the tiny,
isolated Weberish whispers...which
gradually open up again to enormous
clusters, the resumption of isolated
sounds...all this clearly
outline a musical field of
action.” Another Herald
Tribune review called his
compositions “a pleasing
example of modern musi-
cal eclecticism.”

A prolific composer,
Stewart wrote works for
orchestra, string orchestra,
vocal ensembles, and a
myriad of instruments,
and his works were per-
formed by symphonies
and orchestras including
the Atlanta and Roanoke
symphonies (the latter of
which he served as con-
certmaster from 1960 to
1964). His works have
been performed by the
Composers Forum, Music
in Our Time, and the
Group for Contemporary
Music, among others.

Stewart received spe-
cial recognition at the
International Symposium
of Contemporary Music
for Brass Instruments in
Montreux, Switzerland,
and two best composition
awards from the Georgia
State College Symposium.
He also received numerous
grants and commissions.

Closer to Lexington,
Stewart formed the Rock-
bridge Youth Orchestra
and was the first conduc-
tor of the Rockbridge Orchestra. He was
a member of the American Composers
Alliance, the American Music Center, the
Southeastern Composers League, the
Virginia Humanities Conference, and
Mu Beta Psi honorary music fraternity.

And Stewart was, as Leyburn noted, a
thoroughly nice person.

 

 

Illustration: Will Linthicum

Duvall, Lowry, Sjoerdsma
Retire from W&L Faculty

Washington and Lee professors
Severn P.C. Duvall, S. Todd Lowry, and
Theodore J. Sjoerdsma retired at the
end of the academic year.

Duvall, Henry S. Fox Jr. professor of
English, joined the W&L faculty in
1962. He received
his B.A. in English
from the University
of Virginia in 1948
and his M.A. and
Ph.D from Princeton
University. Duvall
served in the Marine

 

Corps and served on
the English faculty
of Dartmouth Col-
lege from 1953 to
1962. Duvall is a member of the Phi
Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa

Severn Duvall

honor societies and was a visiting fellow
at Oxford University in the fall of 1988.
His research interests include work in

 

antebellum Southern literature.

Lowry, professor of economics and
management, received his B.A. and
LL.B. from the University of Texas in
1945 and 1951, and his M.A. and Ph.D
in economics from Louisiana State
University in 1956 and 1958. He taught
at East Carolina University for one year
before joining the W&L faculty in 1959.
His research inter-
ests include the
influence of ancient,
medieval, and Ren-
aissance thought on
modern economics.
Lowry has written
numerous articles on
environmental and
natural resource eco-

Todd Lowry

nomics, business law,

and early economic
thought. He is the author of 7he Archae-
ology of Economic Thought: The Classical
Greek Tradition (1987) and the editor of
Pre-Classical Economic Thought: From the
Greeks to the Scottish Enlightenment (1987).

Beach Blanket Biblio

Washington and Lee law pro-
fessor Andrew W. McThenia Jr.
‘58, ‘63L is the editor of a collec-
tion of essays titled Radical
Christian and Exemplary Lawyer:
Honoring William Stringfellow
(Eerdmans; $14.95) With contri-
butions from well-known law-
yers, theologians, and social
activists, McThenia captures the
compelling legacy of Stringfel-
low, who was for 30 years an
activist lawyer and widely read
lay theologian.

Professor of journalism and
humanities Edwin M. Yoder has
published Joe Alsop’s Cold War:
A Study of Journalistic Influence
and Intrigue (University of North
Carolina Press; $24.95). Joseph
Wright Alsop, with his younger
brother, Stewart, wrote a widely
read, thrice-weekly column for
the New York Herald Tribune
syndicate from 1946 to 1958—
the pinnacle of the influence of

newspaper commentary—and
helped shape the policies of the
Cold War period. Drawing on his
personal acquaintance with Joe
Alsop as well as manuscripts and
reminiscences of family, friends,
and associates, Yoder chronicles
a colorful and vital era in Wash-
ington journalism.

From assistant professor of
religion Winnifred Fallers Sullivan
comes Paying the Words Extra:
Religious Discourse in the
Supreme Court of the United
States (Harvard University Center
for the Study of World Religions;
$24.95 hardcover, $14.95 paper).
She examines the constitutional
status of religion in America and
relationship of religion to law
through an examination of a mile-
stone case, Lynch v. Donnelly.

Alumni professor of law L.H.
LaRue ‘59’s Constitutional Law
as Fiction: Narrative in the
Rhetoric of Authority (Penn State

Sjoerdsma, professor of computer ggj.
ence, received his A.B. from Calvin ;
College in 1954, his MAT from Mich;
gan State in 1961, and his Ph.D in com.
puter science from the University o¢
Iowa in 1975. He taught in high schools
in Michigan from 1952 to 1957, at Dordy
College from 1957 to 1967, and at the
University of lowa from 1968 to 1984

 

where he was the
chairman of the
computer science
department. With
his arrival in 1984 ag
the first head of
W&L’s computer

 

science department,
estab-
lished the Univer.

 

Sjoerdsma

Ted Sjoerdsma

sity’s 3lst under-
graduate major. He
has held several grants from the Nation-
al Science Foundation and has been
active in national organizations such as
the Conference on Computers in the

Undergraduate Curriculum.

 

 

 

 

 

Press; $28.50 hardcover, $13.5
paper) examines a number ¢
Supreme Court cases, includi
Everson v. Board of Educatic
and Marbury v. Madison. He a
gues that, in the writing of opi
ions, a judge not only analyze
and organizes precedent an
makes or defends value juds
ments, but tells a story, or fi
tion, as well. Grisham, move ové

  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 

_

Hoops Dream: W2&L vs. VMI

It’s been 55 years since Washington
and Lee and VMI last faced each other
ss basketball, but the wait Is almost
The Generals and Keydets will
meet Tuesday, Nov. 28, at VMI's
Cameron Hall, with proceeds directed
ro the Rockbridge Area Recreation
Organization. The game marks only the
second time the teams have ever faced
off on the hardwood, with VMI prevail-
ing 39-32 in the 1941 series “opener.”

Washington and Lee, an NCAA
Division III school, and VMI, a Division
| school, have played each other on a
regular basis the last
10 years in lacrosse
—better known as
the Lee-Jackson
Classic—soccer, and
baseball. But tradi-
tionally athletic con-
tests between the
two have been rare,
particularly in bas-
ketball and football.
The schools held
simultaneous memberships in the
Southern Conference from 1926 to 1958,
but their 1941 basketball matchup in
the Southern Conference quarterfinals
in Raleigh, N.C., marked the only ath-
letic contest between the schools in any
sport since a baseball game played on
May 14, 1904. That diamond meeting,
according to a Richmond Times-Dispatch
account, “ended in a riot which saw
stones, bayonets, brass guns, and blast-
ing powder brought into play.”

Both current basketball coaches,
however, express nothing but goodwill
toward the upcoming game. “This will
be a great chance to build community
spirit,” says VMI head coach Bart
Bellairs. “The basketball fan will now
have a chance to catch both teams in
action in one showcase event.”

over.

 

 

 

 

Kevin Moor

“T think it’s going to be a great game
for the community and the fact that the
youth will benefit makes it a tremen-
dous Opportunity for the area to rally
“round the game,” says first-year W&L
head coach Kevin Moore, who headed
up the Elmira (N.Y.) College basketball
Program for the last eight years. “For

our players it represents the chance to
play against a quality Division I program
and to use that as a measuring stick.”

Washington and Lee has not played a
Division I basketball opponent since the
1976-77 season.

Frank Miriello Named
Interim Football Coach

Frank Miriello, an assistant coach
under Gary Fallon for nine years, has
been named the interim head football
coach at Washington and Lee for the
1995 season. Fallon died suddenly on
April 29 (In Memoriam, page 55).

Miriello was an

 

assistant coach on
Fallon’s first W&L
staff in 1978 and
remained on staff
through the 1981
season when W&L
won its first Old

 

 

 

Dominion Athletic

 

Conference champi-
onship. He rejoined
the W&L staff in
the summer of 1990 as an assistant foot-
ball and lacrosse coach. In 1991 Miriello
was named defensive coordinator and
has developed W&L into one of the top
defenses in the ODAC over the last four
seasons. W&L led the ODAC in scoring
defense last season, allowing just 13.4
points per game, and has led the league
in pass defense the last two years.
Miriello is a 1967 graduate of East
Stroudsburg (Pa.) University, where he
was a three-year starter in the defensive
backfield. He was inducted into the
Kulpmont (Pa.) Hall of Fame in 1991.

Frank Miriello

Know the Code: 540

Make a note of it: Washington and
Lee has a new area code. On July 15, the
first three digits for our neck of the
woods changed—from 703 to 540.

So from now on, if you’re calling the
University switchboard, that number
would be (540) 463-8400; the alumni
office would be (540) 463-8464; the
sports hotline would be (540)...well, you
get the idea.

Keep in touch!

VOLUME 70, NUMBER 2
SUMMER 1995

Brian D. Shaw, Executive Editor

Dick Anderson, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

W. Patrick Hinely ‘73, Photographer
Evan Atkins, Contributing Editor
William Cocke ’82, Contributing Editor
Brian Logue, Sports Editor

Chris Main ‘94, Class Notes Editor
Mary Woodson, Associate Designer
The Linthicum Group, Design

COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY BOARD

John Cleghorn °84

David M. Clinger °55
William H. Fishback Jr. °56
Farris P. Hotchkiss °58
Thomas V. Litzenburg °57
David Lotts ’74

Andrew H. McCutcheon °48
Robert Mottley 64
Elizabeth Obenshain
Howard Packett °58

Frank A. Parsons ’54

Sarah K. Wiant ’78L
Robert Wittpenn ’82

Published quarterly by Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington
and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA
24450. Third-class postage paid at
Lynchburg, VA 24502. Signed articles
reflect the views of their authors and not
necessarily those of the editorial board or
the University.

WASHINGTON AND LEE DIRECTORY

Switchboard (540) 463-8400
Publications Office (540) 463-8956
Alumni Office (540) 463-8464
Development Office (540) 463-8410
News Office (540) 463-8460

Sports Info. Office (540) 463-8676
W&L Sports Hotline (540) 463-8998

WASHINGTON AND LEE ONLINE E-MAIL

W&L Home Page hrtp://www.wlu.edu
Alumni Magazine randerson@wlu.edu
Alumni Office alumni@wlu.edu

Science Center Photo: Arne Kuhimann ‘98; Traveller Photo: Jeremy Green

n Genera

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name That Building

It would seem that the yet-unnamed
addition to the science center will have
not one, but hundreds, of names, when
construction is finished. ‘Thanks to an
idea by project contractor Jay Turner
70, scores of people signed a six-foot
beam to be placed inside the building
over alumni weekend. Signees included
not just alumni, but “students, faculty,
alumni wives, even alumni dogs,” says
associate alumni director Rob Mish °76.

 

 

 

 

 

Good Talk, Good Cigar

“In March, I was in Siberia,”
says former student activist Jeff
Gingold °71. “I know at least a cou-
ple of people here would have liked
to have sent me there 25 years ago.”
Gingold shared the stage in Lee
Chapel with former President
Robert E.R. Huntley °50, °57L and
other student and administrative
leaders as they recalled the student —
unrest of May 1970 during Alumni —
Weekend. And afterwards, Huntley
and Gingold shared a good smoke—
like a peace pipe, we guess.

 

 

 

 

  
   
  
  
  
 

Looks like we’ve spotted a tre
here. Since visitors began tossi
money on Traveller’s grave back
May, the parcimony has spreac

steals it. In this day and age,
kind of amazing to me. There
some things that are still sacred.

 

10

 

 

 

 

 

Each year during Washington and
Lee’s spring term, while some students
spend their mini-semester soaking up
culture in assorted European capitals, or
staring down giant tortoises halfway
around the world in the Galapagos
Islands, a select group remains closer to
home, choosing instead to experience
the strange and wonderful inside-the-
Beltway culture of our nation’s capital.
17 W&L students found
themselves in the corridors of power for

six weeks through the

This spring,

Washington
Term program, a course designed to
combine the practical experience of a
Capitol Hill internship with academic
study. Under the guidance of associate
professor of politics William F. Connelly
Jr., the eight-year-old program provides
Students with the opportunity to
observe the processes and problems of
s°vernment at the national level. “The
Washington Term is such a wonderful
€xperience that I wish everyone could
take advantage of it,” says Kelly Horan
96, who worked in the office of the
administratiy e assistant to the Chief
Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court.

Those that do—C onnelly chooses a

JTO
Sroup of likely candidates in a series of
©ne-on-one

meetings during winter
term—find

a program divided into three

Eun LawER21ts

components: an academic course, the
internship, and a lecture series. Students
work four full days a week in the
offices and attend class and lectures on
Fridays. Their grades are based on per-
formance in class, a research paper, eval-
uations from the office, and an analytical
journal based upon their observations.
Connelly’s Hill contacts from his
days as an American Political Science
Association Congressional fellow and
legislative assistant for Rep. Dick
Cheney and Sen. Richard Lugar have
allowed for an impressive lineup of
guest speakers. That list includes
Cheney, former Clinton White House
chief of staff Mac McClarty, former
Virginia Gov. Linwood Holton °44, and
secretary of labor Robert Reich.
Sophomore politics and economics
major Alvin Townley, who interned in
the office of his congressman, John
Linder (R-Ga.), says that it is worth giv-
ing up a spring term in Lexington to be
in Washington. “The whole idea is to
get us up here and see it for ourselves,”
says Townley, who rubbed elbows with
Republican bigshots like Senate majori-
ty leader Bob Dole and House speaker
Newt Gingrich. “Seeing the political
scene firsthand is much better than
bei in a classroom in Lexington.”

Power rangers: Washington Term students
Alvin Townley °97 (with Senate majority
leader Bob Dole) and Robert Turner ’96

(with Indiana Sen. Richard Lugar).

Working for a senator or congress-
man has always been a perennial
favorite among Washington Term stu-
dents, but past participants have worked
for think-tanks like the Heritage
Foundation and the American Enter-
prise Institute, as well as for the White
House and the Supreme Court.

Connelly encourages students to seek
out jobs from the vast network of politi-
cal organizations headquartered in D.C.
Junior John Branam’s internship at the
AFL-CIO is an example of this trend
away from—but always with an eye
. “I have
ing on  cihaeee hearings and work-

                

been report-
ing on speeches,” says Branam, who
worked in the civil rights department of
the labor organization. “I’m learning
things you can’t get out of books.”
Increasingly, non-politics majors are
signing on for Washington Term, and
it's a trend Connelly hopes will contin-
ue. “This program is sometimes thought
of as open only to Commerce School
students, and that’s not true,” he notes.
“It’s open to anyone with a good acade-
mic record and the ability to work
responsibly in an office setting.” Junior
English major Robert Turne
interned for Sen. Lugar, agrees: “I

r, who

didn’t know much about politics, so I’ve
enjoyed jumping in. I would highly rec-
ommend this term to non-majors and for
anyone who thinks they might work on
the Hill.”

Jay Darden ’93 is proof that the
Washington Term program is a practical
marriage between academics and the
workplace. Taking the course his senior
spring, he parlayed his internship in
Sen. Sam Nunn’s (D-Ga.) office into his
first job. “I stayed on as a volunteer after

the term was over,” he recalls. “Two or
three weeks later, a job opened up. As
far as the Washington Term went, it
afforded me the luxury of two months’
experience—experience that put me at
an advantage. I was a known quantity.
That really makes a difference up
here.” —By William Cocke ’82

11

 

—_

  
 
  

School dean Larry Peppers and School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics namesake Ernie Williams °38.

ok PF RA ,

- o.
v4

 

 

Williams
School

 

The

 

 

 

School of commerce, economics, and politics named for Ernie Williams ’38

“”

During the course of the Campaign
for Washington and Lee, Ernie Williams
38, his wife, Marjorie, and their family
have made gifts to the University that
are unprecedented in size and scope. As
the campaign winds toward its successful
completion, recognition of those gifts has
resulted in a new name for the school of
commerce, economics, and politics.

At its meeting in May, the Board of
Trustees voted unanimously to name
the school for Williams, which will
henceforth be known as the Ernest
Williams II School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics. The Board also
established a $1 million endowment to
strengthen the Williams School in the
areas of faculty development, research,
and emerging technology.

“The Board’s action in naming the
school of commerce, economics, and
Politics for Ernie Williams is an appro-
Priate testimonial to this devoted alum-
Mus and his commitment to Washington
and Lee,” says former President John
D. Wilson. “Ernie has given so much of
himself to his University, not only
through his gifts, but through his time,
talent, and energy. The naming of the
School for him is a tribute to all he has
done for Washington and Lee.”

It’s also a bit ironic, given that
Williams. as a student, never took any
Classes jn commerce, economics, or poli-

a

tics. A journalism major from Lynch-
burg, Williams dabbled in the Fourth
Estate after graduating before moving
on to a career in business. After working
in the insurance trade and serving in the
Navy in World War II, he embarked on a
career in sales and investments.

In October 1977, Williams read an
article in Fortune magazine about a
investor in Omaha, Neb., named Warren
Buffett. He noticed in the “pink sheets”
that a friend of his had made a market in
Buffett’s company, Berkshire Hathaway.
Right after his 1978 class reunion,
Williams went to Omaha for Berkshire
Hathaway’s annual meeting, where he
met and had a conversation with Buffett.

After that meeting, he called his
office and arranged to buy as many
shares of Berkshire Hathaway as he
could find at $152. Williams continued
to buy shares, acquiring the last group at
$1,300. Berkshire Hathaway stock today
is the most expensive of any traded on
the New York Stock Exchange at a cost
of approximately $23,600 per share.

Following his retirement from the
investment business, Ernie and Marj
opened an antique store in Hilton Head,
S.C., where they had acquired some lots
in the late 1950s. The couple gave up
the shop in 1981 and later moved to
Florida, where they currently reside.

In recent years, the couple’s gifts to

Washington and Lee have created the
Ernest Williams II Professorship (cur-
rently held by professor of art history
Pamela Simpson), the Marjorie O.
Williams Endowment for Library
Acquisitions, and the Marjorie O. and
Ernest Williams II Honor Scholarship
Endowment. Williams has also been
active as a class agent for W&L from
1976 to 1979, and 1986 to the present.
His most memorable role as a volunteer
came as co-chairman, with Jack Neill, of
the Class of °38’s fiftieth reunion.
Williams, Neill, and their fellow ’38er
Alligators made a gift of $1.3 million to
Washington and Lee—at the time the
largest reunion gift in the history of the
University.

“It is fitting that the trustees have
chosen to recognize the devoted service
and magnanimous generosity of Ernie
Williams by naming the school of com-
merce, economics, and politics in his
says school dean Larry Peppers.
“With the creation of the Williams
Endowment, the school will receive a

’

honor,’

major assist in keeping pace with newly
developing knowledge in business, eco-
nomics, and politics, the explosion of
information technology, and the contin-
uously changing international forces that
are reshaping economies, governmental
institutions, and commercial markets
throughout the world.” @

13

Wolle in Progress

In between chapters of his new, not-quite-finished nove
‘Tom Wolfe ’51 tells us all about mayflies, why books will endure

“Is the book finished?”

Tom Wolfe ’51 probably hears that
question a lot. From his publisher. From
his editor. From his fellow alumni, even.
Curiosity is high, however, given that
his first and only novel, 1987’s The
Bonfire of the Vanities, blazed near the top
of the best-seller lists for nearly a year,
introduced terms such as “social X-rays”
into the lexicon, and has been called the
most-talked-about book of the last 15
years by no less than Washington Post
critic Jonathan Yardley. For many peo-
ple, it was the defining novel of the
1980s, and let’s face it: The ’90s are
half-over now, and we’re all still kind of
waiting for a definition.

“It is not finished,” Wolfe replies
politely over a dish of stuffed peppers at
a restaurant in Staunton, “but I’m clos-
ing in on it. It should have been finished
a couple of years ago. It’s a novel. And it
now has a title, which is 7he Mayflies.

“You know what mayflies are?” he
asks. “They’re not really flies. They’re
little insects that are usually found
around rivers all over this country—all

14

and why the Rolling Stones always look at each other on stage

over the world, for that matter. And in
May, they rise up from the river banks,
from their various larval states, and they
arrive in clouds. It’s like a blizzard when
you see them. In a town you won’t be
able to see across the street, they’re that
thick. They live for 24 hours, and all
they do is try to reproduce. I’m sure
they don’t think of it as reproduction.
They do this in the air, at high speed,
and flying around in zigzag patterns. It’s
quite a show. They actually have rather
pretty gossamer wings, but when they’re
in flight, they look quite like snow.
Most of the eggs are wasted or unfertil-
ized, because they just fall on the
ground. They have to fall in the water to
be fertilized, and only a very tiny frac-
tion of them ever reach the water. This
is all they do: ‘They live for 24 hours,
they try to reproduce.”

There’s an analogy here somewhere.
Wolfe was reading an article about the
mayflies, he recalls, “and the question
was asked, isn’t this a terribly pointless
form of creation—lives 24 hours, all it
does is fly about trying to reproduce?”

 

   
   
   
     
   
  
 
  
 
   
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 

By Dick Anderso

There are two points to make, he
replies: “One, for the mayfly, it’s a life-
time; and two, what makes you think
you're doing anything different?”
Among the main characters in 77
Mayflies is a 60-year-old real-estate
developer from Georgia. Another is
working-class boy from California whe
works in a freezer unit of a food ware
house. Still another is a banker. Then
there’s the developer’s current wife, and
his former wife, and...“Eventually, al
the characters’ lives intersect, as you
might imagine,” Wolfe says.
Having confined himself to the bor
oughs of New York City in Bonfire,
Wolfe stretches himself geographical y
in The Mayflies: “There are scenes im
New York, and in Georgia, and in Cali-
fornia, and in a few places in between. —
His research took him to Dallas, Boston,
and Houston, “but Atlanta was the most
interesting,” he says. When he startee
working on the book in 1989, Atlant
was arguably the hottest commerclé
real-estate center in the country, “whiel
is why I came up with this characte!

 

 

 

 

 

15

Photo: Jeremy Green

who was from Georgia.” One advantage
to writing a novel is that “people tend to
be much more candid because you’re
not going to be using real names.” And
Wolfe doesn’t write romans a clefs: “If I
want to write about real people, I'll do
it—I’ve done it most of my life.

“I love to go into areas that I don’t
know anything about,” he adds, “such
as development—I know a little now—
or banking, which is just a big mystery
to me. Or for that matter, food ware-
houses. There’s even a little jail life in
this book, and that’s certainly something
I didn’t know anything about.”

In the course of writing 7he Mayflies,
Wolfe has penned five rap songs—“a lot
of it is probably more properly called
heavy metal, which isn’t much different
when you come right down to it”—as
well as inventing a new hybrid: county
metal. “It may exist, I don’t know...It
should exist,” he smiles. “That’s kind of
the easy part of writing a novel.”

Though he hasn’t written the music
for these gritty ditties, “something tells
me that the music isn’t much more com-
plicated than the songs,” Wolfe says.
“For some reason, I think people love
music they think they could have done

16

ces dies ata

i
;
i
.

 

themselves. I always thought that was
the real secret of the Rolling Stones.
You know, they are serrid/e musicians.
They’re really dreadful. They always
look at each other on stage, and people
think it’s part of the act. It’s because
they’ve lost time. They’ve lost the beat
and they wonder what’s wrong.” But, he
adds, “It’s part of their charm. The
Beatles, I think, really became a little
too good for their own good.”

But we digress. The problem with
reporting, Wolfe admits, is it can be
endless. “My wife is always telling me
you don’t really need to know all that,
and she’s usually right. You really can
get carried away, particularly with fic-
tion, but you need to know enough for
realism, and you also need enough to
give you imagination. I’ve always main-
tained that the great advantage of
reporting for the novel—and I main-
tained this even before I wrote a novel,
in a piece I wrote a long time ago called
“The New Journalism’—is reporting
feeds the imagination. And I’m con-
vinced that the unaided imagination
simply cannot come up with the stuff
that happens in real life. That’s proba-
bly always been true, but certainly in an

EE Re ow lice hana ei

age like this, it just cannot...as the say=

ing goes, you can’t make this stuff up.”
Made up or not, Wolfe writes from ar

outline; in the case of The Mayflies, “T

should have done it earlier than I did,”

he says, “but I finally wrote a 170-page_
narrative outline, which has been a god-
send.” There are two schools of thought
among writers. “Some people don’t like
to be hampered by an outline. Bob
Stone, whose work I think is terrific,
just likes to wing it. He starts off with @
character and a central theme and thats”
it. [19th-century novelist Maurice]
Stendhal did that, apparently. Dickens
didn’t have too much of an outline.”
But one writer in particular inspired
Wolfe: “Zola was a compulsive outlinef.
All of his major novels were serialized; |
beautifully constructed. He’s a beautiful
writer. And I feel more akin to him and
that made me start.” For The Right Stuf
“which was nonfiction, I wrote a 300-
page ‘school’ outline where you have
Roman numeral I, Arabic numbefs;
English alphabet, all those things. That
was planned almost to the paragraph. 9®
was The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test. Ws
little harder to do that with a nove
because it is true that many things

 

   
 
 
 
  
  
   

_—

n while you re writing. You have a

appe ;
hapP a minor character

characte! you meant aS _
and you see some possibilities and you
say, Well, let’s give that character a little
more to do. eee Si
“In a way, it’s intimidating writing
fiction, but you can do anything you
want. Whereas, in nonfiction, the plot
has been handed to you—and the char-
cters. You have the huge problem of

a
ive. You don’t have to

bringing it al
worry about plot and characters.”

Wolfe’s wife, Sheila, a graphic de-
signer, is Tom’s first reader on every-
thing, and he finds her to be a wonder-
ful editor as well. “She doesn’t ever
send me valentines when I’m writing
these things. It’s either ‘this is interest-
ing’ or ‘this is boring.’ And most editors
won't tell you that,” he admits. “They
don’t want to discourage you.”

Asked how he would define yourself
now—as a writer, novelist, journalist, or
some hyphenate—Wolfe replies, “I
think just ‘writer.’ When I was doing
strictly nonfiction I came to get these
questionnaires from various kinds of
yearbooks, and they have space for
occupation. And If I was feeling good
that day, | would write down Author.
And usually the proof would come back
it would say Author: Journalist. And I
figured they were trying to tell me
something, so | finally gave up I always
just put down Journalist, which I would
be perfectly happy with, because I
approach the novel as a journalist. But
once you've written a novel, it seems an
affectation to put down Journalist.
James M. Cain (Double Indemnity) used
to always write down Journalist instead
of Novelist, | think, because he had
worked on the Baltimore Sun. It seemed
IN a reverse sort of way affected, be-
Cause he was a fabulous novelist.”

Wolfe gave a talk recently on the
Subject of where literature—specifically,
books—fit into the age of electronic
media. And he asked himself, what one
Work, in any medium over the last 75
years, has had the biggest impact on the
Wworld—the biggest change in people’s
lives and behaviors?

“And | think the answer’s pretty
tae he says. “Actually, it’s two

y the same person—both books,

Sais

both by Alexander Solzhenitsyn—One
Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (1962)
and The Gulag Archipelago (1974). These
two books would put an end to commu-
nism throughout Europe, because com-
munism rotted from within once Sol-
zhenitsyn showed that the whole thing
was built upon concentration camps.
And technically, only books, only print-
ed literature, can make you feel like
you're inside the central nervous sys-
tem, inside the skull, of another human
being.” He compares the experience to
Harriet Beecher Stowe’s novel Uncle
Tom’s Cabin, which hastened the end of
slavery in the United States: “Suddenly,
in 1848, people were inside the heads of
Uncle Tom and his children, and even
Simon Legree. Movies have tried over
and over to do this. They cannot.”

The other thing that only books can
do, he contends, is explain—something
Wolfe found out when The Right Stuff
was made into a movie. “It’s a good
movie—The Bonfire of the Vanities was
horrible—but in a movie it’s impossible
to explain much. The conclusion of the
book and the conclusion of the movie is
the same—Chuck Yeager is trying to set
an altitude record in a rocket airplane
called the NF-104. He gets up to about
104,000 feet, loses control of the plane
and goes into a flying spin....He has to
eject at 8,000 feet, the plane makes
about a $400 million hole in the desert,
and he escapes with his life, although
he’s terribly burned.

“In writing that, it’s very easy to put
the reader inside his head and explain
it, because he knows what’s going on.
[Yeager] knows exactly why he can’t get
out of this, and he knows why there’s
nothing he can do about it either. And
all of this can be said very economical-
ly.” In the movie, “all you can do 1s
show that this guy’s in a lot of trouble
and gee, what’s he going to do?

“Movies are image-driven,” Wolfe
adds. “Everything must keep up with
the image. You can’t go back and say,
Wait a minute—how did that happen?
You can’t sit there and expect to have
anything explained at length.”

And so it is, Wolfe contends, that
“influential explanations, like Darwin’s
or Freud’s, will always be made in

print.” And the new Darwin right now,
the Darwin of neuroscientific theory
involving brain physiology and genetics,
is Harvard zoologist Edward O. Wilson,
author of The Insect Society and Soctobio-
/ogy. “Wilson says every human being is
born an exposed negative, just like the
negative in a camera,” Wolfe explains.
“It can be developed well or it can be
developed very poorly. But no matter
how you develop it, you’re only going to
get what’s on the negative.

“This theory is catching up very
widely,” he notes, “and Washington and
Lee has one of the great neuroscience
enterprises in the country right now,
because of Len Jarrard and Tyler Lorig
and all those in the psychology depart-
ment. This has already become a huge
intellectual battlefield,” he says, and it’s
only going to get bigger. “Young
philosophers in droves at the university
level are moving out of philosophy in
the ordinary sense and into psychology
and neurosciences because the findings
in neuroscience have so much to say
about the nature of the soul.”

These two things—the ability to
explain, and the ability to use point of
view—“actually put books at the center
of things in the 21st century,” says
Wolfe, whose own home looks like a
“computer theme park” or a “cyberspace
platform” now. “Probably the best and
most talented young people are going
into electronic media and it’s a shame
that they are really going to be held
back by the inherent weaknesses of the
medium they’re going into. They’re not
going to have the chance to have a real
impact because of the technical nature
of the medium they’re going into.”

Do you feel you’re competing against
yourself, Wolfe is asked—that The
Mayflies will inevitably be judged
against The Bonfire of the Vanities? “I’ve
never thought about it consciously,” he
says, “but it’s probably psychologically
part of the process. I’ve always had a
hard time turning loose of books, though.
I worked for seven or eight years on The
Right Stuff. | worked seven or eight
years on The Bonfire of the Vanities.”

Wolfe laughs. “It’s not a good pace,”
he admits. “I think I’ve got to pick up
the pace from now on.”

17

18

Ulass AGEN

SB PFs -,
ae - eat A. J -
“ > gat aati, a
f a: '
, e ew ,
, a 4 a a
y aa ~ Fy ~~. ae

AGENCY

merrietyy wt) ite 1

eS A ee

Le _ =

4

A SS ES

 

ln 1946, Washington and Le

impressed a 21-year-old Stan Kamen
(opposite page) “as a kind of Eden, an
idyllic retreat from the mayhem and
prejudice of the real world,” author
Frank Rose

Agency, which charts the course of the

‘71 (above j write , in ‘The

quintessential entertainment talent orga
nization, the William Morris Agency,

through vaudeville, movies, music and
television—the whole 20th century of

; ' .
MOD busine ss in America.

Stanley A. Kamen came to Washing-
ton and Lee in 1946 after three years in
the military, at a time when the Univer-
sity was rebuilding following the devas-
tation of the war—a time when admis-
sions decisions still fell to President
Francis Pendleton Gaines. “I realize
that I now must settle down to hard
work and studious application,” he
wrote Gaines, “to hasten the day when I
can take my place in the world...”
Kamen finished his law degree in 1949,
returned to his native New York, and
became known “as the baby-faced kid
in the legal department” of the William
Morris Agency, in the words of author
Frank Rose °71.

By the time Rose himself enrolled at
W&L in 1967, the school was bigger,
and on sound financial ground, but
other endearing traits endured. (Long
before there was such a thing as a U.S.
News ranking, for instance, the school
was touted among the top 10 schools by
the Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion.) By then, Stan Kamen was a player
a “signer” who made a

 

in Hollywood
star out of Steve McQueen before the
hot-headed young actor unceremonious-
ly booted Kamen.

Rose details the tandem rise of
Kamen and McQueen and much, much

 

more in The Agency: William Morris and

the History of Show Business (Harper
Business; $30).: The Manhattan-based
writer’s third book is the culmination of
four years of research and conversations
with more than 200 sources, including
dozens of former Morris agents as well
as innumerable managers, clients, show-
biz executives, organized crime figures,
law enforcement personnel, and family
members—everyone, it would seem,
but the Morris Agency itself.

Rose lived in California for almost a
year and a half, doing interviews as well
as research at the University of Souther
California and the Academy of Motion
Picture Arts and Sciences library im
Beverly Hills. Subsequent efforts back
east turned up an extensive collection of
Morris’s personal papers at the New
York Public Library as well as an unpub
lished biography of Morris—written by
his children, William Morris Jr. and
Ruth Morris White—in the possession
of Morris Jr.’s stepson, Albert Rubem
“Ruben and his daughter are the only
heirs to William Morris,” Rose explains:
“and as it happened, he lived only a few
blocks away from me on Central Park
West.” Ruben hesitated about givimé
Rose access to the manuscript at first—
“he didn’t know how his stepfathe!

 

 

 

 

 

 

[Stan] Kamen wasn’t a chaser like [fellow superagent Sue] Mengers, but he was a

signer. There aren’t many signers in the business; most agents Just make deals. But

Kamen...could see talent where others didn’t. He also had a magentic ability to draw

stars to his side. It had to do with his charm—his warmth, his sense of humor, his way

of telling a good story. He didn’t call a prospective client every day, asking them this,

telling them about that. He was more subtle, insinuating. His Virginia schooling had

taken the edge off the New York aggression that was so common in Hollywood, lay-

ered it with a patina of Southern charm. He was gentle, yet tough. Quiet, yet effec-

tive. He inspired confidence—and what was agenting but a confidence game?

—From The Agency: William Morris and the Hidden History of Show Business,

by Frank Rose ’71

tell-all saga of William Morris, the mob, and The Hidden History of Show Business

would have felt it’—but then consented.

Insights into Kamen—and his W&L
experience—came from conversations
with Kamen’s nephew, Ed Mitchell, as
well as the late James Farrar Sr. °49 of
Lexington, a lifelong friend from the
agent’s college days. By the mid-1980s,
Kamen was head of the motion picture
department (“the flagship of any
agency”) and “a senior member of the
Hollywood power structure, that inti-
mate fraternity of studio chiefs and
agency heads...who run the business,”
Rose writes. “At fifty-seven, he repre-
sented the next generation of Morris
men, the one that would take command
When [Aaron] Weisbord and [Morris]
Stoller retired.”

But Kamen’s illness and subsequent
death of lymphoma in 1986 crippled the
#gency to which he had devoted his life.
“He was seriously ill for at least a year
before he died,” Rose explains, and
Kamen’s inability to give the business
the attention he was used to giving it
allowed Creative Artists Agency—the
latter-day Hollywood powerhouse
founded by Morris refugee Michael
-—* make inroads into Morris turf

| ould not have made otherwise.
, pal Zane hierarchy running the
Sency to deal with Kamen’s sit-

uation adequately only added to their
problems. “They were clearly in denial
many months before and after his
death,” Rose observes. “There’s really
nothing that makes stars nervous more
than the sense that their careers are
drifting. For most of Stan’s clients” —
high-wattage stars such as Goldie Hawn
and Warren Beatty—“their loyalty and
their connection was to Stan.” Many left
the Morris Agency for CAA.

Rose was born in Norfolk, Va.,
moved with his family to Salem when
he was 10, and came to Washington and
Lee to study journalism. After graduat-
ing, he moved to New York and soon
started writing for The Village Voice. He
has since covered everything from anti-
smoking crusaders and computer entre-
preneurs to Hollywood insiders and Chris-
tian surfers for magazines including
Esquire, New York, Fortune, and Premiere.

For his books, Rose has invariably
headed west for subject matter. /nto the
Heart of the Mind (1984) detailed the
efforts of a group of artificial-intelli-
gence researchers at Berkeley to give a
computer common sense. In 1986, he
began work on a volume about the pio-
neering makers of the Macintosh that
was published in 1989 as East of Eden:
The End of Innocence at Apple Computer.

He was working on a story for Premiere
in 1991 following the exodus of six
agents from the motion picture depart-
ment of William Morris—and with them
such clients as Julia Roberts, Tim
Robbins, and Andie MacDowell—when
the idea for 7he Agency was born.

While it seems somewhat ironic that
a book came to be written with the
cooperation of the families of Morris and
chairman emeritus Abe Lastfogel and
not the agency itself, Rose notes that
“the Morris family hasn’t really had any-
thing to do with it since the °50s.”
Reaction within the agency to The
Agency, though muted, has “been fairly
favorable for the most part,” although
there are some historic details—“the
mob connections in the ’50s and that
sort of thing’—that they probably would
have just as soon remained buried.

Then again, in a business where the
only bad publicity is no publicity, 7he
Agency should only secure Morris’s place
in entertainment history. The reader get
a genuine feel for just how closely the
legends and legacies of Hollywood and
Morris interact—and how a Jewish
lawyer from Brooklyn with a Dixie edu-
cation wound up on a first-name basis
with Barbra. And Sly. And Goldie. And
Chevy... —By Dick Anderson

19

t’s the end of spring term, and

Roger Mudd °50 can finally relax

now in a rocking chair, drinking

lemonade, on the front porch of his
temporary residence in the Hollow. His
eyes gaze along the Colonnade, soaking
in the view that he’s enjoyed for six
weeks back on campus, teaching stu-
dents and measuring himself against
the professors he’d admired nearly a
half-century before. “I had a certain
standard that I remembered my profes-
sors had set for me,” he told The Ring-
tum Phi. “1 was nervous that I couldn’t
live up to them.”

As a visiting professor of journalism,
Mudd taught a spring term seminar on
the Washington Press Corps. With a lit-
tle help from friends like CBS News
correspondent Bob Schieffer, Richmond
Times-Dispatch columnist and Washing-
ton bureau chief Charley McDowell
’48, and C-SPAN president Brian Lamb,
Mudd offered 18 lucky students an
inside view of the profession while chal-
lenging them to think about the issues
facing the media inside the Beltway and
whether or not they give the public suf-
ficient background and information to
make intelligent decisions about the
federal government. “He made me
think about the issues and how there
are not always clean-cut answers,” says
Michael Hewlett ’96, a journalism major
from Richmond. “He has a command-
ing presence but he’s personable.”

20

LIVE AND IN
PERSON

Six weeks in spring with Roger Mudd ’5¢

 

“A teacher can touch the lives of a
few young people in deeper, more last-
ing, more memorable ways than the
broadcaster can by skimming the sur-
face with 10 or 15 million viewers,”
Mudd told W&L alumni on the eve of
his 45th class reunion in Lee Chapel
May 11. “Just to watch their faces,
scope their eyes, read their reactions—
live and in person—is for me, after a
lifetime of talking into a metal box, a
rare and exhilarating experience.

“Coming back here and tapping the
source has been one of the most invigo-
rating, reassuring, and heartening expe-
riences of my life.”

nd this is quite a life we’re talk-

   

ing about—a career spanning
five decades, three broadcast

networks, two Peabodys,
and five Emmys. Mudd began his

“journalistic ascension” as a sports

writer for the P#z, and his first assign-
ment was covering the W&L-Rutgers
crew race on the old Balcony Falls
course on the James River. “That I was
also pulling the six-oar for Washington
and Lee that day did not seem strange
at the time,” he says. “But I now real-
ize, in my golden years, that that was
my first brush with the classic conflict
of interest.”

After receiving a master’s degree in
history from the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1951, he

 

  
 
  
  
 
   
    
   
  
   
  
   

 

By Evan Atki

worked for the News Leader and WRN
radio in Richmond before embarking ¢
a I’V career that includes 19 years with
CBS News as a congressional and
national affairs correspondent and seve
years at NBC News where he was vari
ously chief Washington correspondent,
chief political correspondent, and co-
anchor of “NBC Nightly News,” “Meet
the Press,” and the short-lived news-
magazines “American Almanac” and
“1986.” In 1987, Mudd jumped to PBS
and “The MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour”
as an essayist and congressional corre-
spondent. In addition to his current
duties as a special correspondent for
“MacNeil/Lehrer,” Mudd is one of the
hosts for the A&E cable service’s new
History Channel. |
Mudd has seen many changes in his
profession over the years, changes he
reflected on as the 1995 Telford Distin-
guished Lecturer May 3. “What is dif
ferent now is that there exists in the
press a pervasive mistrust of the govern=—
ment, its practitioners, and its spokes
men—and they don’t have a much high-
er opinion of the press,” he said. “Aftet
the lies of the Vietnam War, the lies of
Watergate, the lies of Irangate—!#
would be hard to find a Washingto®
reporter who does not believe that offi-
cial statements and explanations from
the government are either untrue OF
half-true until proven otherwise.”
He went on to talk about the “cor

 
  
   
 

 

>

OTR LES

life.

Uy LLL

.
ce

‘ay

LE
LALA
aL,

Ss
~

GLE YALL

REL aT

1ence,
MG

d

J

“

reassuring

wy.
5! -
: aby A
PS ae cael
a er " y

“Coming back here and tapping the

SS
+)
a
a)
~™
3
had
Se
~

 

“ROGER MADE A
POINT TO BE A PART
OF THIS PLACE.
STUDENTS WERE
STUNNED BY HOW
GRACIOUS, OPEN,
AND RECEPTIVE HE
WAS TO THEM.”

sion of the wall that separates the news
business from the show business—the
slow surrender to the tabloids and their
ever-falling standard of what constitutes
news.” Referring to the seemingly infi-
nite number of network and cable and
video options jockeying for people’s
attention—“between and among not
only ABC, CBS, and NBC but also PBS
and C-SPAN and Fox and Warner and
CNN and TNT and Nickelodeon and
Comedy Central and Court TV and
OVC and A&E and Blockbuster
Videos”—he noted:

“I grew up believing that competi-
tion was good, that it was invigorating,
that it promoted research, that it
improved the product, that it lowered
the price, and that it made everybody
feel good.

“Reluctantly and painfully, I have
concluded that almost the opposite is
true in television.”

oger Mudd began his latest
career a couple of years back,
teaching a politics and press
seminar at Princeton. For his
spring class at W&L, prospective stu-
dents were required to write a one-page
paper in order to be considered, and
Mudd picked the students—a mix of
journalism majors and students from
other disciplines—from their papers.
Mudd worked them hard and graded

 

 

them hard (there was only one A in the
class, and that was an A-minus). And
how did W&L students compare to
those he taught at Princeton? Princeton
students may have more aggressive
minds, he says, but “W&L students
write better.”

“Roger made a point to be a part of
this place,” says journalism department
head Hampden Smith, who played host
to Mudd and his wife, E.J., during their
stay in Lexington. “The students were
stunned by how gracious, open, and
receptive he was to them.” Indeed,
Mudd knew everybody by name shortly
after his arrival. He held individual con-
ferences with students where he went
over their papers word-by-word. Outside
of class, other students dined with him
and his distinguished visitors. And fre-
quently he joined the journalism faculty
for lunch in the library in Reid Hall.
“Roger’s all-professional approach to
stuff was terribly informing to us,”
Smith adds. “He reinforced our semi-
professional thoughts and reminded us
that our academic perspective is some-
times a little different from people
working as journalists.”

Faculty and students alike hope that
Mudd will return to W&L again in the
near future. “We really hope it will be
possible for Roger to return in the fall of
1996 to teach a class on media coverage
of the presidential campaign,” Smith

 

 

says. Mudd has covered every natior
political convention since 1960, he ade
“and I can’t imagine anyone who cou
teach it better.”

udd’s employers have le

appreciated his affinity f
the Old Dominion. By h
own wry account, his gre
Virginia assignments began in 196
when he covered the reenactment

the Battle of Bull Run, “crested”

1978, “when I reported on Elizabet
Taylor Hilton Wilding Todd Fishe
Burton Warner’s second chicken-bor
crisis,” and culminated with his cove
age of the Texas delegation at the 1%
Mock Convention for “MacNeil/Lehret.

Coming back to campus not as ©
gummy alumnus,” but as a teache
Mudd found Washington and Lee me
like it used to be than he had imagine
“I have not been discombobulated b
the women, or the non-conventior
dress.” He does wish the men woulda
wear their caps on backwards.

“I cannot think of a time or plae
where my own standards, my own vi
of right and wrong, my own concept ©
what was fitting and proper, my %
code of ethics got a finer and firmé
shaping than in the late 1940s, here
Lexington,” he said. “Coming back §
Washington and Lee has been €4#
because I really never left.” #

4
A

   
    
   
  
    
   
    
   
  
    
   
  

* ,
*

John | ~~ _ Hare enrolled at Washington and
Leein! _. ith dreams of going into medicine,
Mike his |a: father before him. He chose W&L
for that reason and because, as he wrote Presi-
Gent Pray ’endleton Gaines in his applica-
Hon, “oi —— iendly and hospitable atmosphere
Which ¢ —\ishes Washington and Lee from
every oi ~—jiversity in the South.” He distin-
Buished | —__|f in his studies early on, receiving
the meore A. Mahan Prize for Creative Writing
@atresi and Hare completed two years of
Budy wh. he applied for admission into the
Naval Res< _. tlare was a first lieutenant fight-
MEIN Bur oe when the vehicle he was riding in
“ay Over ne in Germany, on Oct. 27, 1944.
Jack Mare was listed as missing in action until

 

By Faith Truman ’95

the following June, when his mother and step-
father got word of his death.

By August 1944, some 2,853 alumni—a full
third of W&L’s alumni roll—were serving in the
armed forces. Most of them came home and
resumed their lives following the war; 136 did
not. It is reported that, student-for-student,
Washington and Lee lost more of its alumni than
any other school in the United States.

The Memorial Gate at the entrance to the
University is a constant reminder of those men
who gave their lives for their country. As W&L
prepares to observe the anniversary of World War
Il on campus in October (see page 53), let us
pause now to remember the faces—and the
dreams—that died all too young.

WILLIAM ADDISON RAY ‘06 Belton, Texas + The retired Army major—jokingly
described in the 1906 Ca/yx as “habitually frightened looking” —was
reported missing in action in the Philippines on May 7, 1942. JOSEPH
TEMPLE COLE ’23 Richmond + Cole was a staff sergeant in the Army. ‘The cir-
cumstances surrounding his death could not be located. GEORGE COOLEY
WILLCOX ’25 Saginaw, Mich. ¢ Willcox practiced patent law with his father
before he was commissioned as a lieutenant in the Navy. On July 2,
1943—less than a month after he was ordered to sea duty—his airplane
crashed while he was leaving Dutch Harbor, Alaska, en route to a new
base. WILLIAM B. HARRINGTON ‘29 Columbus, Miss. « Harrington was presi-
dent of his freshman class, Interfraternity Council president his sopho-
more year, and subsequently president of the EC and 13. On Dec. 15,
1942, The Ring-tum Phi reported Harrington, who was in the Navy, had
been declared missing or captured. WILLIAM EDGAR DARNALL JR. ‘32
Larchmont, N.Y. « A corporal in the Army, Darnall died at Fort Macon,
N.C., on April 4, 1942. GEORGE WESLEY ATKINS HOLMESTED ‘32 Charleston,
W.Va. ¢ Holmested entered W&L at age 21 to study law but withdrew
after one year for financial reasons. As a first lieutenant in the Army Air
Corps, he left Long Beach, Calif., on a solo flight in a combat-comber
on Dec. 8, 1943, when a severe storm swept in and threw his plane into
a cliff by Mexico. The plane was blown by the wind and finally found
near Douglas, Ariz. GILBERT ALLIS JR. ‘34 Milwaukee + Allis transferred to

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

Charles Hastings Eaton 39 Samuel Birnie Harper '39 James R. Howard ’39,°42L

Marquette University after one year. He was killed in action June 6,
1943. JAMES WRIGHT COCHRAN ‘34 Oklahoma City ¢ Cochran studied at
W&L for two years before transferring to the University of Oklahoma.
A practicing lawyer prior to joining the service, Private Cochran was
fighting with the Third Army in Germany when he was killed on
March 3, 1945. RODERICK EDWARD HARRIS ‘35 Guntersville, Ala. « Band and
swimming kept Harris busy during his four years. PATRICK WAYLAND
HODGES JR. ‘35 Montgomery, Ala. *« Hodges spent one year at W&L. His ser-
vice record could not be located. ALEXANDER GILLIAM HARWOOD Ill ’35L
Williamsburg, Va. ¢ In addition to his law studies, Harwood was president
of Sigma Nu fraternity. As a sergeant in the Army Air Force, he was
stationed in Alexandria, La., flying as an instructor with combat train-
ing crews on fortresses, when his plane exploded on a routine flight on
March 3, 1945, killing Harwood. RALPH JOHN BISHOP JR. ‘36 Cleveland
Heights, Ohio « Bishop enrolled at W&L “to acquire a good general educa-
tion in preparation for specialized training in law.” He died in
December 1944. BARCLAY HUGH DILLON ‘36 Birmingham + Dillon trans-
ferred to W&L as a junior and graduated cum /aude. A captain in the
Army Air Corps, he received the Distinguished Flying Cross, a Silver
Star, and a Purple Heart for his work overseas. He was 15 miles from
Pensacola, Fla., when his plane crashed. Dillon died on Sept. 30, 1943.
ROBERT EDWARD HOLLAND JR. ‘36 Lexington, Vo. « Holland studied com-

24

 
 

merce and law. As a lieutenant in the Naval Air Corps, he received a’
presidential citation for raids in which he took part while based aboard
the USS Saratoga in the South Pacific. Holland was killed on Aprij 5
1944, when his plane crashed over the Atlantic on its way to Norfolk, |
Va. CHARLES JAMES ANDREWS JR. ‘37 Norfolk, Vo. « Andrews was President
of the Troubadors his senior year and graduated magna cum laude, He
studied drama, directing, and playwriting at Yale, where he earned his
MFA. Andrews was serving with the American Field Service in Africa
when he died near the Sangro River in Italy on Dec. 8, 1943, While
fighting under General Montgomery. An AFS ambulance was given

the Commonwealth of Virginia in his memory. CARL ARENZ ‘37 Baltimore .
Wrestling at 166 Ibs., Arenz was Southern Conference champion as q
senior and would have wrestled at Nationals but had missed too many
classes as a result of ear problems. He graduated with a degree in com.
merce and was working for the Standard Vacuum Oil Co. when he was —
called into service. A lieutenant in the Army, Arenz was declared miss-
ing in action in the Philippines on May 7, 1942. DEVERTON CARPENTER
‘37 Clifton Forge, Vo. * A journalism major, Carpenter was managing editor
of the Péi for two years and worked for papers in Atlanta, Nashville, ~
and Richmond afterwards. As a first lieutenant in the Army, he was _
returning from questioning some German prisoners of war in April —
1945 when his vehicle overturned, and he died. Dear Folks, a collection —

 

Julian Leroy Dart Jr. °39

 

Richard Berton Steelman °39 Jock A.R. Stewart 39 James Patterson Rogers “39L

of letters he wrote to his parents during the war, was published in
1947. JOHN HENRY SHERMAN ‘37 Haynesville, La. « Sherman spent three
years at W&L as a Sigma Nu and worked on the Ca/yx. He fought for

the Army Air Force and was killed in action over Germany on Feb. 26, —
1943. EMIL EMMANUEL TOMCHIK ’37 Lonsford, Po. ¢ Tomchik attended W&L
for one year and was a second lieutenant when his Flying Fortress
crashed in Logan, N.M., on July 17, 1943. FRANKLIN JAMES BYRD ‘38
Baltimore * Byrd stayed one year at W&L. A first lieutenant with the
Army Air Command, Byrd died on March 3, 1943, during his sixth trip
overseas when his plane burst into flames in mid-air. He is buried neat
Acaralm, Brazil. JOHN VICKERY EDEN ‘38 Harriman, N.Y. « Eden withdrew
after one semester in 1935; no further record exists at W&L. FRANK
FIGURES FRAZIER ‘38 Evanston, Ill. + Frazier played basketball and baseball —
and received his B.A. in commerce. As a lieutenant in Navy, he was —
killed overseas in January 1945. CLAUDE LAYTON GOODMAN ‘38 Newport
News, Va. « During his one year at W&L, Goodman joined Phi Kapp@ ~
Sigma. He became a lieutenant commander in the Navy and was listed
as missing in action when his submarine, the USS Barbe/, sank
enemy waters in April 1946. DAVID WRIGHT HANCOCK ‘38 Morocco, Ind. “a
Hancock studied biology during his two years at W&L. As an Army At
Force cadet, he died in a plane crash on July 29, 1941. ROBERT BURCH
SECORD '38 Detroit * Secord graduated with a B.S. in commerce and took

 

a

as a merchandise control manager with Sears, Roebuck in
As a lieutenant in the Army Air Corps, he died when the
four-motored bomber he was navigating crashed in Madill, Okla.
GEORGE BAKER WICKERSHAM ‘38 Pittsburgh « Wickersham enjoyed sketch-
ing and eraduated with a commerce major. He became a second lieu-
renant in the Army Air Force and died on Aug. 7, 1944, in England.
JOHN IRELAND MACEY ‘38L Paris, Ky. ¢ Macey attended W&L with the
assistance of the Augusta Military Academy Scholarship and practiced
law in Lexington prior to entering the Army in May 1942. A first lieu-
renant, Macey was stationed in North Africa before being transferred
to Italy, where he died in a vehicular accident on July 14, 1944. GEORGE
MARTIN SOHMAN JR. ‘39 Hagerstown, Md. ¢ Bohman graduated with a B.S. in
commerce. He died in Germany on April 8, 1943. SAMUEL TILDEN
CLEVELAND JR. ‘39 Scranton, Pa. + During his three years at W&L,
Cleveland consistently made Dean’s List while studying politics. A
lieutenant in the Army Air Force, he was listed as missing in action on
Aug. 10, 1942. JULIAN LEROY DART JR. ‘39 Jacksonville, Fla. * Dart cut short a
planned business administration major and left after two and a half
years to work in the mortgage department of Telfair Stockton & Co.
He enlisted in the Air Force in 1942 and was later commissioned a sec-
ond lieutenant as a bombadier flying officer. On July 18, 1943, his large
bomber crashed near Pyote Field in Dallas. WILLIAM THEODORE

a job
Cleveland.

 

Pa
a.
,
ES —
is
a
Pe
is

a iO
Shas

era

ae
weer

aw, i

 

 

 

 

Glenmore Murrell Ash °40 Lloyd Robert Cole °40

 

Louis Claude Schultz Jr. °40

Andrew D. Jamieson Jr. °40

George Horner Melville °40

DELAPLAINE |! ‘39 Frederick, Md. ¢ A dedicated athlete and aviator, Dela-
plaine’s love of flying followed him through prep school and college: “I
feel very close to God when I am up in the air,” he once said. He
became a lieutenant in the Navy. On April 27, 1943—five days before
his 24th birthday—his twin-engine plane crashed on a hill near
Oakland, Calif. After his death, the terminal building at the Frederick
Municipal Airport was dedicated to him. STANLEY ALLEN DOUGLAS JR. 39
New Rochelle, N.Y. « During his two years at W&L, Douglas was a member
of the Southern Collegians Orchestra. As a technical sergeant in the
Army Air Force, his bomber was shot down by shrapnel off the coast of
Alaska on June 11, 1942. Douglas was the first reported alumnus to be
killed in action. CHARLES HASTINGS EATON ‘39 Fort Leavenworth, Kan. « This
Southern Conference wrestling champion and secretary-treasurer for
the Athletic Council left the University for financial reasons in 1938.
As a first lieutenant in the Army, Eaton was killed on April 16, 1945, by
a hand grenade thrown by a German who had already surrendered near
Gorgognano. Italy. He received the Distinguished Service Cross
eethumous!; for heroism. JOHN FROST I! ‘39 San Antonio, Texas + Frost left
V&L after two years. As a lieutenant, he was piloting a B-17 type air-
Plane attacking two destroyers 58 miles from Lae when anti-aircraft
= _ plane, forcing six men to parachute. One of the destroyers

1eaded toward the men, and Frost was listed as missing in

i

 

 

action on Nov. 22, 1942. SAMUEL BIRNIE HARPER JR. ‘39 Fort Smith, Ark. «
Harper played football and ran track at W&L, and as a senior was pres-
ident of Finals and the Monogram Club. A pilot in the Army, he died
when he bailed out of his plane in December 1944. Both his father
(Class of °13) and his son (66) attended W&L as well. JAMES ROBERT
HOWARD ‘39, ‘421 Lynch, Ky. « Howard was vice president of Pi Kappa
Alpha, a member of 13, and played football for three years at W&L. In
1941, Howard deferred his enlistment until he completed his law
degree the following spring. He went overseas as a lieutenant on May
3, 1944, with the First Army, Company K, 60th Infantry, and was
killed in action on the western front on Sept. 24, 1944. EARL HUGH
HULSEY JR. ‘39 Dallas ¢ Hulsey transferred from Southern Methodist
University and completed his B.A. in French. He enlisted in the Navy
Air Corps as a lieutenant and was reported missing late in 1942. Hulsey
was confined in Japanese Prison Camp No. 2 at Davao on the island of
Minandoa and killed in action while aboard a Japanese vessel in the
Pacific on Dec. 15, 1944. JOHN MICHAEL JENKINS JR. ‘39 Montgomery, Ala.
Jenkins came to W&L as a major in history, hoping to enter the brick
business like his father. He became a lieutenant in the Army Air Force
and died on Sept. 16, 1943. ROBERT LEWIS JONES ‘39 Lula, Miss. « A Kappa
Alpha at W&L, he fought for the Army Air Force. He was killed
in action in Italy in November 1944. SAMUEL TIPTON JONES JR. ‘39

John Benjamin Gillespie °40 Walter Russell Guthrie °40

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hubert Franklin Beatty °41 Robert Shimler Boyce °41

Aubrey Lee Simpson Jr. °40

Sweetwater, Tenn. « Jones graduated and worked in government for a year
before beginning his service in the Army. As a lieutenant in the Army
Air Corps, He was 18 days shy of earning his wings when his plane hit
the tail of another plane over Moore Field, ‘Texas, on Oct. 22, 1942.
Jones bailed out, but his parachute failed to open. ROBERT ALFRED KEMP
’39 Shamokin, Pa. * Kemp was captain of the wrestling team as a senior (a
spine injury as a junior necessitated wearing a body cast to class) and
hoped to coach and teach after graduation. Following his death in the
fall of 1942 fighting for the Army Air Force in a British war area,
Kemp’s high school back home dedicated a stadium in his memory.
RODES SHACKELFORD PARRISH ‘39 Paris, Ky. ¢ Parrish stayed with football
all four years and graduated with a B.A. in history. He was killed in
action while fighting in France in May 1944. PRESTON DIX PARKS JR. ‘39
Parksley, Va. « Parks hoped to major in engineering but left W&L after
his freshman year, when the University eliminated the major from the
curriculum. CLARENCE ALBERT ROTH JR. ‘39 Little Rock, Ark. « On the advice
of good friend ‘Tyndall Dickinson °39, ’41L, Roth transferred to W&L
from Little Rock Junior College as a business administration major.
He left in 1937 after one year. A captain in the Army, he died on Feb.
23, 1945. RICHARD BERTON STEELMAN ‘39 Hammond, Ind. « Steelman came to
W&L when he was 20 and stayed for two years. He migrated to
Canada to join the Royal Canadian Air Force and died on Jan. 6, 1943,

25

when his plane crashed during a routine flight near Hamilton. JOCK
ARNOLD REVELLE STEWART ‘39 Independence, Kan. « Stewart came to W&L,
changed his name from Jack to Jock, and graduated summa cum laude
with a B.A. in Spanish. He was a dorm counselor, a lacrosse player, and
a member of the Troubadors. As a lieutenant in the Army Air Corps,
Stewart died in a plane crash on Sept. 18, 1942, near Drew Field in
Tampa, Fla. JOHN WESLEY WRIGHT JR. ‘39 Charleston, W.Va. ¢ Wright trans-
ferred to the University of Georgia after two years at W&L and gradu-
ated with a B.A. in 1940. He entered the Navy and as a lieutenant flew
more than 25 missions against the enemy in the East China Sea region.
He died in service in August 1945. JAMES PATTERSON ROGERS ‘39L
Wheeling, W.Va. *« This law student was Southern Conference champ in
the 120-yard high hurdles in his second year and the 70-yard high hur-
dles in his third year. Rogers was killed in action over Germany in July
1944. GLENMORE MURRELL ASH ‘40 Lexington, Miss. « Ash attended
Mississippi State and the University of Mississippi before coming to
W&L. He graduated with a B.A. in economics and enlisted as a lieu-
tenant with the Army Air Corps. Ash died on Sept. 27, 1943, during a
raid over Hanover, Germany. LLOYD ROBERT COLE ‘40 Winchester, Ky. « Cole
was president of Phi Delta Theta and graduated with a B.A. in
German. A captain in the Army Air Forces, he became a German pris-
oner of war in April 1943 and died in a field hospital. EDWARD ROESSLER

 

 

 

Samuel Givens McF adden °41

 

 

Taylor S. Trueheart 41

George Gordon Alford ’42 Henry Parr Baker °42

DOWNIE ‘40 San Antonio, Texas ¢ Downie stayed only one year at W&L
before transferring to the University of Texas. As a lieutenant in the
Army Air Force, he was killed in the crash of a Liberator bomber in
Utah on Jan. 26, 1944. DANIEL LEWIS FINLEY ’40 Buena Vista, Va. + Finley
only spent one year at W&L. He was a lieutentant in the Army Air
Force. On July 29, 1944, Finley became a German prisoner of war.
JOHN BENJAMIN GILLESPIE Il! ‘40 Columbus, Ohio + Gillespie transferred to
W&L from Ohio State University and played basketball in his junior
year and football as a senior. He completed a B.S. in commerce and
became one of the youngest captains in the Marine Corps. On Oct. 14,
1942, Gillespie was killed in action on the Guadalcanal in the Solomon
Islands. WALTER RUSSELL GUTHRIE ‘40 Washington, D.C. ¢ Guthrie graduated
magna cum laude in English and was senior class vice president. As a
captain in the Army, he was aboard a U.S. ship that was torpedoed by a
Japanese submarine in the Indian Ocean on July 2, 1944. JAMES WILBUR
HANNABASS JR. ‘40 Richmond « Hannabass attended W&L for one semes-
ter. He was a second lieutenant in the Army before his death. ANDREW
DOUGLAS JAMIESON JR. ‘40 Detroit + Jamieson went out for basketball and
baseball as a freshman but concentrated on academics after that, grad-
uating summa cum laude in politics. As a lieutenant in the Army, he was
killed in action on the Belgian front on Dec. 15, 1944. GEORGE HORNER
MELVILLE JR. ‘40 New Rochelle, N.Y. « Melville was president of Delta

26

   
   

 
 

Upsilon and ran track all four years, graduating with a B.S, in com.
merce. A lieutenant in the Naval Air Corps, he died in the Pacific area
in December 1944. LEO FREDERICK REINARTZ JR. ‘40 Middletown, Ohio + As a
senior, Reinartz was president of Delta Tau Delta, student body vice
president, and captain of the basketball team. As a lieutenant in the
Army, he was killed on Leyte by a Japanese shell on Nov. 4, 1944,
LOUIS CLAUDE SCHULTZ JR. ‘40 Highland Park, Ill. + Although he majored in
history, Schultz liked journalism and worked on The Ring-tum Phj and
The Southern Collegian. An Army lieutenant in the Philippines, Schultz
was reported as missing in action for two and a half years before his
family got word that he was killed in action on Christmas Day, 194].
AUBREY LEE SIMPSON JR. ‘40 Charlotte + Simpson transferred to Duke after
one year at W&L. As an ensign in the Naval Air Corps, he died during
a routine training flight when his plane crashed into the Atlantic op
April 15, 1943. WILLIAM STEVENSON YOUNG ‘40 North Little Rock, Ark. + Young
came to W&L intent on following his father’s footsteps as a cotton
planter but left after his freshman year. While fighting for the Army Ajr
Force, he died while flying a B-26 over Coreica on May 2, 1944. HUBERT
FRANKLIN BEATTY ‘41 Lexington, Va. « Beatty hoped to become a dentist and
attended W&L for two years. As a first lieutenant in the Army Ajr
Forces, he was awarded an Air Medal and a Presidential unit citation.
He was killed in action over Germany on Feb. 22, 1945. ROBERT

  

Parker Jones Matthews °41 John Page Spears °41 Neumon Horne Taylor "41

 

 

Richard Clarence Burton °42

Wi/murt Addison Bennett '42 Douglas Wayne House °42

SHIMLER BOYCE ‘41 Cincinnati + As a senior, Boyce was co-president of the
Cotillion Club, head of Spring Dances, captain of the swim team, and
president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. As a lieutantant in the Army Aif
Corps, he was the first alumni casualty in World War II, dying on a rou-
tine training flight near Orlando, Fla., on April 29, 1942. ROBERT
WILLIAM GARY JR. ‘41 Beaumont, Texas « A history major and a versatile ath-
lete, Gary played football, basketball, and baseball all four years at
W&L. He was an aviation cadet with the Army Air Corps and was
killed in a plane crash on Feb. 5, 1944. PAUL EMILE GOURDON JR. ‘41 Floral
Park, N.Y. « Gourdon played lacrosse for three years and received his B.S.
in commerce in 1941. He was studying law at W&L when he enlisted
in the Army. A second lieutenant, Gourdon died in action in France on
July 11, 1944. ROBERT HENRY KEIM JR. ‘41 Richmond + Keim played football
and baseball at W&L. As a first lieutenant in the Marine Corps
Reserve, he was killed in action in May 1943 when his torpedo bombef
was shot down by hostile fire in the Solomon Islands. SAMUEL GIVENS
MCFADDEN ‘41 Dallas « McFadden transferred to the University of Texas
after his freshman year. An ensign in the Naval Air Corps, he died on
March 4, 1943, when his torpedo plane crashed on the landing field in
Fort Lauderdale, Fla.—his last flight before a scheduled two-week
leave. PARKER JONES MATTHEWS ‘41 Kirkwood, Mo. « Matthews was a brother
in Sigma Chi and studied business and finance. He became a lieU-

4
«

—

ant in the Army Air Force and was killed in a plane crash in Venice,

a on Dec. 3, 1942. JOHN PAGE SPEARS ‘41 Catlettsburg, Ky. * Spears

njoyed writing reviews and hoped to be a journalism major. He only
enjo' |

W&L for one year. NEUMON HORNE TAYLOR ‘41 Memphis, Tenn. +

attended a AA is, T
Taylor attended W&L for one year. A captain in the Army Air Force,
he was killed in combat when his B-29 was hit over China on July 29,
1944. TAYLOR SIMMONS TRUEHEART ‘41 St. Petersburg, Va. * Truecheart

excelled in football and also ran track during his four years at W&L. As
a first lieutenant in the Marine Air Arm, he died in a plane crash over
che South Pacific in April 1943. His Phi Kappa Sigma brother and rela-
tive, Brooks Young, was commissioned at the same time as ‘Trueheart.
BROOKS CHAPMAN YOUNG ‘41 St. Petersburg, Va. * Young left W&L after his
sophomore year. As a lieutenant in the Marine Air Arm, he died ina
plane crash over the South Pacific in early 1943—ironically, in the
same area that Young’s classmate and relative, Simmons Trueheart,
would die soon after. GEORGE GORDON ALFORD ‘42 Lewiston, Idaho « Alford
majored in journalism—no real surprise, since both his father and
brother worked for a daily paper. As a lieutenant in the Army Air
Corps, he was preparing to return to his base in Dodge City when the
engine of his plane exploded over an airfield in Sioux City, lowa, on
Jan. 25, 1944. ROBERT FOSTER AST ‘42 Pittsburgh * Ast attended W&L for
two years and worked toward a journalism major before enlisting in the

 

  

William Corwin Jones °42 Daniel Ray Justice °42 Felix Garrett Smart Jr. °42

law. He withdrew on Jan. 1, 1940, returned six days later, and with-
drew again on March 28 to transfer to the University of Virginia to
study engineering. As a lieutenant in the Army Air Force, Dabney was
declared MIA on Aug. 19, 1942, following a raid on Dieppe. WILLIAM
ALLEN FLETCHER JR. ‘42 Bluff City, Va. « Fletcher aspired to become a sur-
geon and attended W&L for two years. He was a lieutenant in the
Army before his death. DOUGLAS WAYNE HOUSE 42 Springfield, Mass. +
House was a member of the Monogram Club for his success at crew
and wrestling, competing at the 155-lb. mark and losing only once dur-
ing the regular season. As a lieutenant in the Army, House was killed
in action in Italy on Dec. 14, 1943. WILLIAM CORWIN JONES ’42 Washington,
D.C. * Jones was a lieutenant in the Marine Corps when, on July 30,
1944, his unarmed observation plane crashed in enemy territory on
Tinian Island. He was posthumously awarded the Distinguished
Flying Cross and an Air Medal. DAN RAY JUSTICE ‘42 Richmond + A running
back for the football team all four years, Justice hoped to teach physi-
cal education in secondary schools and was assistant freshman coach
his senior year. A first lieutenant in the Marines artillery, Justice was
killed July 22, 1944, while laying down a barrage on the second day of
the invasion of Guam. ARTHUR BURKE KOONTZ JR. ‘42 Charleston, W.Va. « As
a senior at W&L, Koontz was president of Opening Dances, Cotillion
Club president, and class vice president. He reported for training in

 

  

 

Ross Beason Jr. °43 Walter Irving Chudleigh °43

Kramer Thomas °42

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Enoch C. Devane Jr. °43 Frederick Erwin Fisher 43 Elias Porter Haizlip °43

Army Reserve Corps in 1942. On Dec. 10, 1944, the second lieutenant
died in Germany when, under intense fire from the enemy, he volun-
tarily crawled forward, destroying three enemy machine guns before a
mortar shell exploded and killed him. Ast was awarded the Silver Star
posthumously. HENRY PARR BAKER ’42 Newberry, $.C * Baker wrote of look-
ing forward with pleasure to being a “Washington and Lee man.” He
withdrew on April 1, 1942, one month prior to graduating, to join the
Army Air Corps, and died in 1944 in an air raid over Hollandia.
WILMURT ADDISON BENNETT JR. ’42 New York City * Bennett attended W&L
for two years before leaving for the Naval Academy. As an ensign,
Bennett was captured May 7, 1942, at Corredgidor. In October 1944,
U.S. forces sank the prison vessel he was being held on in the Manila
Bay area. RICHARD CLARENCE BURTON ‘42 Johnston, N.Y. ¢ Burton attended
W&L for a year, went to the University of Richmond for a semester,
and returned to Lexington. As a lieutenant in the Army Air Corps. he
dive bomber crashed in the Beaufort River near Parris Island, $.C., and
died on Sept. 13, 1942. CHARLES GREEN CARTER JR. ‘42 Memphis, Tenn. «
Carter planned to major in science, but withdrew from the University
’ 1941. As a major in the Army Air Corps, he was killed in Japan on
17, 1946, when his plane crashed. Carter was scheduled to leave

ome the following day. WILLIAM TAYLOR DABNEY Ill ’42 Richmond «

Se en of :
bney transferred to W&L from Lynchburg College in order to study

<i

 

  

Francis William Lowry °43 Richard Erwin Mayo '43 Howard B. Nichols °43

the Naval Air Corps in April 1942, returning to campus one last time to
graduate. A flight instructor turned fighter pilot, Lt. Koontz was killed
in action on April 9, 1945. FELIX GARRETT SMART JR. ‘42 Pine Bluff, Ark. «
Smart transferred from Vanderbilt in 1940 and completed his under-
graduate coursework in the fall of 1941. On Dec. 18, 1944, Smart was
lost when he fell off a destroyer during a typhoon in the South Pacific.
THOMAS WARREN STEIN ‘42 Louisville, Ky. * Stein left the University after a
single semester and subsequently attended the University of
Louisville. As a lieutenant in the Air Force, he was reported missing in
action on March 8, 1943, in the European theater. KRAMER THOMAS JR.
‘42 Paoli, Pa. « After two years at Randolph-Macon, Thomas transferred
to W&L to get a better education in journalism. A lieutenant in the
Army Air Force, he never returned from a practice flight on Pacific
Island and was declared missing in action on Dec. 2, 1944. EMIL
EMMANUEL TOMCHIK ‘42 Washington, D.C. * Tomchik became a lieutenant in
the Marine Corps. On July 30, 1944, his unarmed observation plane
crashed in enemy territory on Tinian Island. He was posthumously
awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross and an Air Medal. RICHARD
MILLER BASSETT ‘43 *¢ There is nothing on file about Bassett at W&L.
ROSS BEASON JR. ‘43 Miami Beach, Fla. « Beason left W&L after his fresh-
man year. As a fighter pilot in the Army Air Force, Lt. Beason died on
April 15, 1944, when his plane crashed into the sea off the Italian coast.

27

WALTER IRVING CHUDLEIGH JR. ‘43 New York City * A good-natured joker,
Chudleigh enjoyed a warm relationship with President Gaines and
Dean Gilliam. He attended the University for three semesters and left
with dreams of being an aviator. He was a flying cadet in the Army Air
Corps when he was declared missing in action over Germany on March
16, 1944. ENOCH CLAYBOURN DEVANE JR. ‘43 Chevy Chase, Md. * DeVane
aspired to go to dental school; he withdrew from W&L in 1942 follow-
ing his father’s death. As a lieutenant in the Marine arm of the Naval
Air Corps, he was killed during a night flight from the Marine Corps
Air Base in Santa Barbara, Calif., on July 29, 1943. FREDERICK EDWIN
FISHER “43 Richmond * Fisher planned to major in accounting and was a
Phi Kap during his two years at W&L. Lt. Fisher was reported missing
on June 23, 1944, after a raid on the Ploesti oil fields in Rumania when,
according to reports, the instrument board of his P-51 Mustang fighter
was shot away and the plane ran out of gas. LEE ARMISTED FORD ‘43
Martinsville, Vo. « Ford was killed in the European area in January 1945.
ELIAS PORTER HAIZLIP ‘43 Memphis, Tenn. * Haizlip lasted one year at W&L
before packing his bags for the Citadel. GEORGE SIMS KELLER ‘43 Huntington,
W.Va. * Keller joined Phi Kappa Sigma at W&L and became a second
lieutenant in the Marine Corps. On Nov. 8, 1944, he died as a result of
a plane accident in Hawaii. FRANCIS WILLIAM LOWRY ‘43 Tallahassee, Fla. «
Lowry transferred to W&L from Saint John’s College and graduated

 

   

Daniel Bailey Owen Jr. °43 Herbert Grooms Smith Jr. °43 Robert Cochran Wagg 43

 

 

 

  

William Horace Hall ’44

Alan Robert Clarke ’44 John Edgar Hare ’44

magna cum laude in history. A Marine lieutenant, Lowry was killed in
action during the battle of Iwo Jima on Feb. 20, 1945, and was cited by
Adm. Chester W. Nimitz for bravery and devotion to duty under fire.
CHARLES FRANCIS MARTIN ‘43 Ponca City, Okla. ¢ Martin attended W&L for
one year and became a captain in the Marine Corps. On Nov. 14, 1943,
he died of an accidental gunshot wound during training in Dallas.
RICHARD ERWIN MAYO ‘43 Prestonsburg, Ky. * After two years at the
University of Kentucky, Mayo transferred to W&L with hopes of fol-
lowing in his dad’s footsteps at his law firm. As an air cadet in the
Army Air Force, Mayo was training at Hammer Field in Fresno, Calif.,
and was searching for a missing plane when his own plane crashed into
Huntington Lake on Dec. 6, 1943. HOWARD BENJAMIN NICHOLS ’43
Washington, D.C. * Art and drawing interested Nichols, who attended
W&L until his junior year. A captain with the Army Air Force, he com-
pleted more than 60 combat missions and was awarded an air medal
with 10 Oak Leaf Clusters. In 1946, he died in Germany while direct-
ing a flight. DANIEL BAILEY OWEN JR. ‘43 Crozet, Va. ¢ Owen was a legacy,
but left W&L after his sophomore year to enlist in the Army Air Corps.
Lt. Owen was declared missing in action on Aug. 27, 1943; he was list-
ed as a prisoner of war during a Japanese broadcast. Owen died on Jan.
12, 1945, in New Guinea. JAMES TYLER RAMSEY '43 Harrisburg, Pa. «
Ramsey participated in the rifle club, track, and band during his three

28

  
  

years at W&L. A lieutenant with the Army Air Forces, he was killed on.
April 17, 1944. HERBERT GROOMS SMITH JR. ‘43 Newport News, Vo. ,
Following in his father’s footsteps, Smith wanted to study law at
W&L. He received his B.A. in English and entered the Marine Co
Smith was killed in action on Iwo Jima on March 15, 1945. ROBERT
COCHRAN WAGG ‘43 Lambertville, NJ. ¢ An ensign in the Army Air Corps,
Wagg was killed in the Philippine Islands on Aug. 2, 1945. CHANDLER ©
SARGENT WHIPPLE ‘43 New Hampton, N.H. * Whipple planned to study busi-
ness, but withdrew from W&L in February 1940. A first lieutenant in
the Army Air Forces, he was killed in action on Oct. 5, 1943, Piloting a
B-26 on a strafing mission near Madang, New Guinea. THOMAS MARTIN
FORD JR. ‘431 Martinsville, Vo. « Ford came to law school from Hampden.
Sydney. He had only been overseas for two weeks when he was killed
in a plane crash in North Africa on March 12, 1944. DOUGLAS THEODOR
ALLEN JR. ‘44 St. Lovis « During the one semester he attended W&L,
Allen did well academically and planned to go into advertising. H
withdrew on Jan. 31, 1941. MALCOLM CAMPBELL BINDON ‘44 Arlington, NJ. «
Bindon transferred to W&L from Ohio State and spent two years ap
the University before joining the V-12 program at Franklin ang
Marshall. While in the Marines, Pfc. Bindon wrote to the deans a
W&L to inquire about law school after the the war was over. ALAN
ROBERT CLARKE 44 Ridgewood, N.J. * Clarke studied commerce for twe

 
 
 
   
   
   
 
   
  
 

~~

eed

i
i

=

~~

Douglas Theodore Allen *44

 

 

 

Thomas Martin Ford ’43L

   

 

  

Emmett William Barger °45 Jack Jay Dreyer °45

  

John Haws Edwards Jr. "43 _

years at W&L. The April 7, 1943, Ring-tum Phi reported that the U.S.
Merchant Marine ship Clarke was aboard was sunk by a torpedo by a_
German U-boat. The boat was heading to Russia when it was hit.
WILLIAM HORACE HALL ‘44 Dothan, Ala. ¢ Hall was to major in journalism in
preparation for working for his family newspaper back home and
attended W&L for one year. He was killed in action; President Gaines
sent his condolences to the Hall family in March 1946. JOHN EDGAR”
HARE ‘44 Fork Union, Va. * Hare attended W&L for two years as a pre-med
major. As a lieutenant in the Army, his vehicle ran over a mine in
Germany on Oct. 27, 1944, killing three of seven passengers. Hare was
listed as missing in action. ROBERT EMERSON SMITHERMAN ‘44 Shreveport, La.
¢ Smitherman attended W&L for three years and was a brother at ~
Kappa Alpha. STEVENSON ARCHER WILLIAMS ‘44 Bel Air, Md. « Interested in
“riding and gunning,” Williams withdrew from W&L after two years 0
join the Air Force, becoming a lieutenant. He died in September 1943,
when two Flying Fortresses collided in mid-air and plunged into the
Gulf of Mexico. JOE HIGGINS BAGLEY '45 Fayetteville, Tenn. * Bagley’s father, ©
Charles, also attended W&L. On Feb. 25, 1943, he was called into the
Army Air Corps Reserve as a lieutenant. He was killed in action of
Feb. 23, 1944, when his plane was shot down by fire from a Japanese
destroyer in the Philippines. EMMETT WARREN BARGER JR. ‘45 Waynesboro,
Va. * Barger entered W&L at age 16 and played football on the 150-Ib-

 

 

-

ream. He w
overseas as 4 »
ing Nov. II,

as inducted in the Army Air Corps in 1943 and was ordered
econd lieutenant in August 1944. He was reported miss-
1944, while flying his 22nd mission with the 15th Air
~ re jn southern Italy. JACK JAY DREYER ‘45 South Orange, NJ. * Dreyer
d to take some correspondence course while in training with the
ome Corps Reserve in Monroe, La. He was killed in an American
Army Aug, 28, 1944. JOHN HAWS EDWARDS JR. ’45 East Rutherford, NJ. +
ads spent one semester at W&L before withdrawing to attend a
ae closer ro home. On March 7, 1944, he was killed in action at
Anzio beachhead in Italy. HOWARD KENDALL GIBSON ’45 Chicago + Taking
ws nickname, “Hoot,” from the movie cowboy, Gibson enrolled at
W&L to study commerce, enlisted in the Army in 1942, and was
inducted into the Reserve Corps on Feb. 18, 1943. He was shipped
overseas that October and served in North Africa, Italy, and France,
where he was killed in action on Dec. 13, 1944. Gibson is buried in a
military cemetery in eastern France. CHARLES TROY HICKMAN ‘45 Raphine,
Yo. ¢ A quiet man, Hickman aspired to be an evangelistic missionary in
Africa. He attended W&L for one year and was received as a candidate
for the ministry of Lexington Presbytery. A staff sergeant for the Army
Air Corps, Hickman was killed in combat in June 1944 while serving as
qa tailgunner aboard a bomber based in England. WILLIAM CLARENCE
HOOD 45 Ashland, Ky. * Hood came to W&L to study law after receiving

 

 

William Clarence Hood °45 John Thomas Kibler Jr. °45

 

  

 

Joseph Overstreet Stage ’45

John Connell Tucek °45

Kendall King Fish °46

the Ashland Senior High School Scholarship back home. A private in
the service, he was killed in action in Italy on Feb. 2, 1944. HARRY
CARTER KELLY “45 Warrenton, Vo. ¢ Described as a “man’s man” by others,
Kelly was a work-study in the president’s office, and his picture hung
in the office for 40 years. Fighting in Belgium Jan. 8, 1945, 2nd Lt.
Kelly headed in the direction of American machine gunfire in heavy
fog. The guns had been stolen, however, and Kelly was killed by the
enemy. JOHN THOMAS KIBLER JR. ‘45 Chestertown, Md. ¢ Kibler came to W&L
to study commerce and business administration. A lieutenant in the
Army Air Force, he was killed in action in Belgium on Oct. 15, 1944.
JOHN MCDOWELL KING ’45 Chattanooga, Tenn. + King aspired to be a chemical
€ngineer or go into his father’s manufacturing business before he was
called into the Army Air Corps in 1943. As a lieutenant in the Naval Air
Corps, he fought in Italy. King died when his plane crashed on May 4,
1944, WILLIAM WEBSTER LINDSAY ’45 Raphine, Vo. ¢ Described as a “nice,
ce modest country boy,” Lindsay attended W&L for two years and
ee. 4 sergeant in the Army. He was declared missing in action in
—" during the Battle of the Bulge on Dec. 26, 1944. JOSEPH
. LITTLEPAGE ‘45 Charleston, W.Va. + A much-prized first-string center

the footbal!| team, Littlepage withdrew Oct. 23, 1941, to enter the

Serv) . 2? ‘
“ ‘ice. However, President Gaines wrote the Army and asked if

itt Ba,
lepage could be granted leave to play on Oct. 29 against West

el

Virginia. Littlepage played the game, but the Generals lost, 7-6.
DICK MAYO LYKES ‘45 Houston ¢ One of many people in his family to
attend W&L, Lykes spent two years in college before heading off to
war. He served in the Navy and lost his life near Okinawa in April
1945. ROBERT JOHN O’LEARY ‘45 Petersburg, Va. ¢ O’ Leary had aspirations of
being a journalist when he withdrew from W&L on Feb. 9, 1943, to
return home to await his call into the Army Air Force and received an
air medal for his service as a first lieutenant. On April 10, 1945, his
plane was shot down over northern Italy between Bologna and the
Adriatic. ROBERT EUGENE RIDENHOUR II! ‘45 Concord, N.C. + Like his father
before him, Ridenhour planned to go into the administrative end of
the laundry business. He transferred to the University of North
Carolina in 1943 to join its Navy V-12 unit. Ridnehour died of
Hodgkins’ disease in August 1945. PAUL BOLTON SHAMHART JR. ‘45
Bayside, N.Y. * Shamhart received the commerce department scholarship
as well as the George A. Mahan Prize for creative writing as a fresh-
man. As a first lieutenant in the Army, he was killed in action in
Lorrraine, France, on Dec. 11, 1944, while coming to the aid of a
wounded comrade. JOSEPH OVERSTREET STAGG JR. ‘45 Danville, Ky. « Stagg
planned to be a diplomat and stayed at W&L for one year. As a
sergeant in the Army Air Corps, he was killed in action on Feb. 25,

1944, while flying over Burma. JOHN CONNELL TUCEK ‘45 Rutherford, NJ. «

 

  

  

 

 

 

Robert John O'Leary °45 Robert Eugene Ridenhour ’45

 

 

William Carter Shinn °46 Lee Armistead Ford °47

Paul Haynes Cagle °47

‘Though he attended W&L for only one year, ‘Tucek is well remem-
bered for recovering a fumble on W&L’s two-yard line and running
for 98 yards to score the winning touchdown against Richmond. He
entered the Naval Academy the following year and fought for the
Merchant Marines. On April 28, 1943, his ship was torpedoed in the
Atlantic, sinking instantly. KENDALL KING FISH ‘46 Tampa, Fla. « Fish trans-
ferred to W&L from the University of Florida to better prepare him-
self to work for his family’s cattle business, then withdrew soon after
arriving to return home. He enlisted in the Army Air Corps and died
in service in 1945. WILLIAM CARTER SHINN ‘46 Ashland, Ohio « Shinn came
to W&L as a pre-med major but withdrew on Jan. 30, 1943, to enter
the Naval Air Corps. He was killed in July 1944 when his four-engine
bomber crashed near Rapid City, S.D. GEORGE STANLEY SLUSSER ‘46
Raphine, Va. * Slusser fought for the Army and was killed in action in
Italy on Sept. 26, 1944. PAUL HAYNES CAGLE ‘47 Owensburg, Ky. « A pastor’s
son, Cagle withdrew from W&L in January 1944 to enter the war. A
defective ear prevented him from serving for his country, so he enlist-
ed in the British Army as an ambulance driver. On Sept. 6, 1944,
Cagle was wounded while taking Italian soldiers back from the front
and died the following day. LEE ARMISTEAD FORD ‘47 Martinsville, Va. « Ford
was only 17 when he attended W&L for the summer session in 1943.
He was killed in a European area in January 1945. @

W&L Law

 

Among the stacks of books and
papers in law professor Brian Murch-
ison’s office in Lewis Hall is a collection
of African batiks, photographs, carvings,
and bronzes—memorabilia from his
days in the Peace Corps more than 20
years ago. Murchison joined the organi-
zation in the summer of 1974, a month
after completing his undergraduate
studies at Yale, and he spent the next
two years teaching English to West
Africans. “That experience taught me a
lot about people, communication, and of
course, teaching,” Murchison says. It’s
an experience he shares with his wife of
17 years, Ann, who taught in a neighbor-
ing village about 40 kilometers away as a
Peace Corps volunteer in Benin, Africa.

Murchison returned to Yale for law
school in 1976, while Ann returned soon
after to teach high-school French and
English in Illinois. Murchison received
his law degree in 1979 and practiced at a
Washington (D.C.) firm for three years,
specializing in administrative law and
communications law, before coming to

30

Washington and Lee to teach in 1982.
Then, last August, he received a call
from the Administrative Conference of
the United States—a research agency
which, in conjunction with the U.S.

Information Agency, sponsors a pro-
gram called “The Rule of Law in
Africa.” He was asked if he would like
to go to Ghana, a country 125 miles
west of Benin, to give a series of lec-
tures on communications law. The orga-
nization knew nothing of his Peace
Corps service there 20 years ago.
Murchison—who, as a lawyer and law
professor, “rarely, if ever, uttered such
an unqualified sentence” —exclaimed:
“I’m perfect for this.”

Ghana, like Benin and other African
nations, had adopted a new constitution
in the early 1990s and was no longer a
military state. Now, those small nations
were independent and struggling eco-
nomically and politically with their tran-
sition to a more open society. “We
wanted to go back to see what it was
like under a new order,” Murchison

 

Out of Lexington, Into Africa

Murchison Discusses Media Freedom in a New Democracy

“I had access to an incredible range of People
and places,” Brian Murchison says of his
four weeks in Ghana this past February

explains. What made the OPPortunity
even more appealing was that he Was
able to return to that part of the world jn
February not as a tourist, but in a usefy|
and constructive role, as he had 20 years
earlier. He would be a resource and
legal consultant to discuss the concept
of a free press in a new democracy,

Murchison’s first week was devoted
to meetings with a number of Ghana-
ians who were involved in media
issues—journalists, publishers, lawyers,
professors, students, members of
Parliament, and heads of agencies—as
well as U.S. ambassador Kenneth Brown.
“I learned that the Republic of Ghana,
operating under a new constitution, had
committed itself to ‘freedom and inde-
pendence of the media,’ but was in the
throes of working out the contours of
that freedom,” he says. “The new con-
stitution in Ghana contained a sweeping
free press clause that they now have to
implement.” The state controlled the
one radio station and the one TY station
currently on the air, but now some 60
groups were clamoring to begin their
own broadcast stations, “and suddenly
an intense debate began over questions
of frequency availability and allocation,”
he explains. Other issues he addressed
concerned libel and invasion of privacy,
and the difficulty faced by journalists
seeking access to information.

His second week began with a stop
at the University of Ghana, where he
discussed the work of the U.S. Federal
Communications Commission in a lee
ture on “Broadcast Freedom and
Regulation.” A lecture at the Martin
Luther King Jr. Information and
Resource Center in the capital city of
Accra addressed press law (“Striking the
Balance”) and the legal problems faced
by U.S. media, particularly claims of
libel and invasion of privacy. A third
presentation, at the Institute of Ee0

-

A

—: . .

ss and opinion leaders, concerned the
ne

[.S. Freedom of Information Act and
press access to information held by the
executive branch as well as press pro-
| against government subpoenas,
| seizures, and prosecutions

Finally, Murchison spoke

ffairs, an organization of busi-

rections
searches ant

for sedition.
ro the Ministry of Information’s com-

mittee on license allocation about
broadcast licensing criteria in the
United States. He also toured the
offices of a regional newspaper, meeting
with editors and writers to discuss prob-
lems of the independent press in Ghana
and the training of Ghanaian journalists.

The third week involved another set
of talks as well as several meetings with
the National Media Commission, where
Murchison was asked for his reflections
on the situation of the press in Ghana
and for recommendations. He shared
with them the evolution of American
law and practice in the area of the
media—its struggles and solutions. “My
effort throughout was to remain sensi-
tive to the Ghanaians’ pride in their
own obvious ability to solve their prob-
lems, while at the same time sharing
with them the best parts of the
American experience,” he says. “In our
country, it has taken much of the 20th
century to develop a model of free
press, and it’s still not perfect.”

After Ann joined Brian for his last
week in Ghana, the couple returned
together to Benin to see the places
where they had lived and worked 20
years earlier. After a few hours’ drive
along the western coast of Africa, past
long stretches of coconut trees and fish-
ing towns, they were back in Cotonou,
the capital of Benin. “It was bigger and
more bustling than we remembered it,”
he says. “Gone were the big signs con-
taining revolutionary slogans of the mili-
tary regime we had known. Gone were
sentries regularly posted throughout the
town. The whole place seemed more
relaxed, less programmed.”

They saw old colleagues and stu-
dents—the villages where they had
lived, and the schools where they had
"aught. “We found the same sense of
Collegialiry and warmth—the same

delightful and outgoing people—well-

el

 

 

 

educated, inquiring, and friendly,” he
says. “It was exciting to see their energy
as they search for the right answers in a
time of transition.

“The students were still in khaki
uniforms and still had that eagerness to
learn,” he adds. “The visit was even
more than we had expected. It was not
so much nostalgic as it gave us a better,
deeper appreciation of what we had
experienced—for what we were able to
do 20 years ago.” —By Evan Atkins

Law Council Elects Six

Six new directors were elected to the
W&L Law Council at its May meeting.
David L. Baird Jr. °71L is deputy
manager of public affairs for Exxon
Corp. in Dallas.
Baird joined Exxon
straight out of law
school in 1971 and
has also worked in
the organization’s
Houston, Washing-
ton, D.C., Connecti-
cut, and Hong Kong
offices. A native of
Dallas, he earned his B.A. from Austin
College in 1967 and is vice president of
the Exxon Education Foundation.
Richard DeF ronzo ’70L is head of the
personal financial planning group for the
tax department of
Ernst & Young’s
Los Angeles County
office. He graduated
from Boston College
with a B.S. degree in
accounting and has
practiced taxation as
a public accountant
his entire career.
DeFronzo joined Ernst & Young in
1982 and also teaches in the graduate
tax program at Golden State University.
Robert J. Grey Jr.
‘76L is a partner
with Mays & Valen-
tine, Virginia’s third-

 

largest law firm,
which has offices in
Richmond, Alex-
andria, and Norfolk.
He joined the firm

in 1985 after three years as a member
and chairman of the Virginia Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board and has been a
partner since 1988. Grey has a B.S.
degree in business management from

Virginia Commonwealth University.
Elizabeth Toni Guarino ’77L is vice
president and general counsel for the
Grocery Manufac-

 

turers of America in
Washington, D.C.
Guarino received
her B.A. from the
State University of
New York and was

previously senior

 

 

 

 

 

food and drug coun-
sel for Kraft Foods
Inc. She directs GMA’s legal depart-
ment and provides legal representation
on corporate governance, antitrust, and
governmental issues.

Heather A. King ’88L is an associate
with the corporate and securities group
of Womble Carlyle
Sandridge & Rice in
Winston-Salem,
N.C. Her main re-
sponsibility is nego-
tiating, drafting, and
closing acquisitions
and divestitures of
private companies,
including a four-
state, 11-station radio group asset sale in
1994. King received her B.A. from
Grove City (Pa.) College in 1985.

Hugh V. White Jr. °6/L is a partner in
the business practice group and a mem-
ber of the corporate
and securities team
of Hunton & Wil-
liams in Richmond.
White earned his
B.S. in civil engi-
neering from VMI
in 1954 and was edi-
tor-in-chief of the
Law Review while at
W&L. His practice focuses on general
business matters with emphasis on cor-
porate and securities law and counseling.

David Redmond ’66, ’69L, a partner
with Christian, Barton, Epps, Brent &
Chappell in Richmond, is Law Alumni
Association president for 1995-96.

31

 

 
 
 

The

Generals
Report

Junior Harris Morrison won the pole

vault at both the indoor and outdoor
ODAC championships.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Photos (32, 34): Arne Kuhimann ‘98

By BRIAN LOGUE

Just when you thought Washington
and Lee’s spring athletes had done all
they could do, they went one step fur-
ther. A season that began in mid-
February began to reap dividends in
mid-April with the golf, men’s lacrosse,
women’s tennis, and women’s track
teams capturing Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championships. In early
May, the men’s lacrosse team rose from
the canvas and rallied past VMI in the
Lee-Jackson Classic. ‘('wo weeks later
the women’s tennis team came within
an eyelash of winning a national title,
but any sour feelings were erased when
senior Marilyn Baker and freshman
Natalia Garcia captured the NCAA
Division III doubles crown—the first for
any W&L women’s athletic program.

32

Women’s Tennis

High expectations can be a danger-
ous thing, but they drove the Generals
to their best finish in school history—a
21-2 mark and third place at the NCAA
Division III championships.

W&L stormed through the regular
season with an 18-1 record, losing only
to Kenyon 5-4, and then captured its
fifth straight ODAC championship.
W&L was rewarded with its second
straight bid to the NCAAs and opened
with a convincing 8-1 win over Skid-
more. In the quarterfinals, W&L fell
behind Amherst 2-1 after doubles play,
but came back to win five singles
matches on its way to a 6-3 victory and a
berth in the semifinals. In the semifi-
nals, W&L met up with Kenyon again
and the Generals took the eventual

7

national champion to the wire in a 5.4
loss that came down to the third Set of
the final match. The Generals rebound.
ed with a 5-4 victory over Trinit
(Texas) in the consolation match.

Individually, W&L was just ad
impressive. In addition to their national
doubles win, senior Marilyn Baker and
freshman Natalia Garcia reached the
quarterfinal and semifinal rounds,
respectively, of the NCAA Singles
championships. Baker won a Schoo]
record 31 matches, including her 100th
career win. Garcia finished her rookie
season with a 25-5 record.

Julie Ayers, Shelley Sunderman,
Ericka Shapard, Anna O’Connor, and
Berry Blankinship all won ODAC titles
with Shapard posting a 30-2 record.
W&L also swept the Intercollegiate
‘Tennis Association’s top awards with
Baker being named player of the year,
Garcia earning rookie of the year honors
and head coach Cinda Rankin being
named national coach of the year.

Vien’s Tennis

All good things must come to an end,
and after winning 10 straight ODAC
championships, the Generals’ reign at
the top ended with a second-place finish
to Lynchburg in the ODAC champi-
onship. W&L got titles from Ryan Aday
at No. 3 singles, Chris MacNaughton
and Jesse Taylor at No. 1 doubles, and
Clay Richards and Aday at No. 3 dou-
bles. MacNaughton also provided one of
the biggest surprises at the tournament
The unseeded player knocked off the
No. 2 and 4 seeds to reach the finals at
the top flight before losing in three sets
to ODAC player of the year Kevin
Pendergrast of Guilford.

W&L’s 10-9 season included wins
over nationally ranked Woostet and
Ripon. Freshman Glenn Miller led the
team with a 13-9 log at No. 5 singles.

Women’s Track

After years of waiting, the Generals
expected to celebrate in February with
their first official ODAC championship:
but Lynchburg put a hold on those

; . e
plans by edging out the Generals for th

-

 

Classic, and finished the year ranked
10th in the nation.

The Generals opened the year 5-0,
including an overtime win against
Hampden-Sydney, but then suffered
losses to second-ranked Gettysburg and
Roanoke, the latter a 9-8 heartbreaker
in overtime on Wilson Field. W&L won
three straight before losses to Franklin
& Marshall, Denison, and Washington
College knocked the Generals out of
the playoff picture. A thrilling win over
VMI in the Lee-Jackson game stopped
the slide. Trailing 7-4 in the third quar-
ter, the Generals reeled off seven
straight goals to silence the Keydet
faithful and win the inner-city matchup
for the seventh straight year.

Junior Ande Jenkins led the Generals
in scoring with 31 goals and was a first-
team AIl-ODAC selection along with
senior defenseman Shaun McKenzie.

le. But there would be no
denying the Generals at the outdoor
championships in April. W&L led the
Hornets just 115-110 entering the final
cwo events, but the Generals left little
doubt by taking three of the top four
spots in che 3,000-meter run before run-
ning away with the 1,600-meter relay.
Senior Sue Deutsch capped an im-
pressive career by leading the Generals
with 22 individual points at the meet,
including 4 win in the 1,500-meter run.
Sophomore Hollis Leddy placed second
in the 200- and 400-meter runs with a
school-record time of 1:02.05 in the 400
and ran a blazing split of 61.9 seconds on
the winning 1,600-meter relay team.
W&L’s other top scorers from the meet
were junior Josephine Schaeffer, who
won the 3,000-meter run, and junior
Sandra Holmes, who won the javelin.
Senior Sarah Gilbert won the high

 

 

 

 

 

jump matching her career best at 5-2, Senior midfielder Scott Mackley, senior

while Kim Herring put a final mark on Mary Jo Mahoney, a freshman starter at attackman Andy Dutton, and sopho-

the W&L record book by winning the midfield, scored 10 goals as the Generals more midfielder Adam Butterworth all

800 in a school-record time of 2:25.38. went 10-5 this season in women’s lacrosse. were named second-team. Mackley and

McKenzie were also selected for the

Men’s Track joined the league in 1992 North-South all-star game and named
Senior Bates Brown was a first-team honorable mention All-Americans.

W&L had hopes of wrenching the All-ODAC selection as a designated hit-
ODAC track title from Lynchburg’s ter. Brown led the Generals with a .364 Women’s Lacrosse

grasp after winning the cross country batting average, belting four homers
championship last fall, but injuries and a while driving in 25 runs. On the mound A schedule that included last year’s
lack of depth relegated the Generals to he was W&L’s ace, with a 4-2 record national champion and runner-up was
third place at this year’s meet. and a 4.24 earned run average. sure to provide plenty of challenges. But
Junior Harris Morrison captured the A potent offense included four other that schedule also prepared W&L for a
pole vault title with a 14-ft. vault to regulars over the .300 plateau. Senior fabulous stretch run. W&L closed the
complete his sweep at the indoor and catcher Todd Stanton hit a career-best regular season with a stunning 11-10
outdoor championships and freshman .340, sophomore third baseman Tucker upset victory over Roanoke and a 5-4
Jason Callen won the 5,000 with a time Bixby hit .333, junior left fielder Graig victory over Frostburg State. The win
of 15:32.8. Seniors Grant Cowell and Fantuzzi hit .326 with 11 steals, and over Roanoke gave W&L the right to
Hayne Hodges closed out their careers junior center fielder Owen Smith hit host the ODAC tournament at the
with Cowell taking a close second in the .315. Fantuzzi was a second team All- Liberty Hall Fields. In the first round,
800-meter run and Hodges placing in ODAC selection and a first team GTE W&L avenged a 13-5 early season loss
the 100- and 200-meter dashes. Academic All-American. to Lynchburg with a 9-5 win behind
four goals from senior Nicole Ripken.
Basebal! Men’s Lacrosse W&L fell to Roanoke 12-7 in the cham-

pionship to end the dream run.

The Generals showed marked im- W&L began the season with high Ripken was named first-team All-
Provement this spring, but luck wasn’t expectations, but a three-game losing ODAC along with fellow senior captains
on their side in an 8-19 season, includ- streak late in the year denied the Lindsay Coleman and Carrie Niederer.

MZ seven losses by three runs or less. Generals an NCAA berth. Still, W&L Ripken and Coleman each had 33 goals
oie however, record its first win captured its third straight ODAC cham- and Niederer was a key to W&L’s
a ee oy since 1989 and pionship, bounced back from its losing defense. Sophomore goalie Brooke

TSC Win Over perennial conference skid with an 11-8 come-from-behind Glenn was named second-team All-
POWer Guilford since the Quakers win over VMI in the Lee-Jackson ODAC with a school-record 208 saves.

a 33

 

 

 

 

ODAC golfer of the year Tommy Dudley

earned medalist honors three times.

Niederer was also named a third-team
All-American and Ripken was selected
to play in the North-South all-star game.

Golf

Three key players graduated from
W&L’s 1994 ODAC championship
squad, but you wouldn’t have known it
from the performances of the 1995
Generals. W&L placed second in three
early season tournaments and then
caught fire in late April, winning three
of its last four tournaments and finishing
just two shots off the pace in its one
loss. Culminating that victory run was a
one-shot win over Guilford in the
ODAC tournament, allowing W&L to
take its conference-record eighth crown.

ODAC golfer of the year Tommy
Dudley, a sophomore, earned medalist
honors three times, including a 68 at the
Virginia Wesleyan Invitational, and
broke 80 in his first 10 rounds of the sea-
son to post a 77.1 scoring average.
Sophomore Jay Ingram captured the
individual title at the ODAC champi-
onships with a 36-hole score of 152.
Ingram finished second on the team
with a 79.8 scoring average.

34

Embry-Riddle 14, W&L 6
Embry-Riddle 10, W&L 0
Mary Washington 8, W&L 3
Mary Washington 8, W&L 4
W&L 3, W. Virginia Tech 2
W&L 4, W. Virginia Tech 2
W. Virginia Tech 14, W&L 5
Holy Cross 7, W&L 0
Randolph-Macon 7, W&L 0
Randolph-Macon 8, W&L 2
W&L 4, Eastern Mennonite 2
W&L 11, Hampden-Sydney 10
Virginia Wesleyan 4, W&L 3
W&L 8, Virginia Wesleyan 4
Bridgewater 15, W&L 4
Lynchburg 3, W&L 2

Emory & Henry 12, W&L 11
Emory & Henry 20, W&L 18
St. Mary’s 6, W&L 3

W&L 6, St. Mary’s 5
Bridgewater 9, W&L 7

W&L 10, Eastern Mennonite 5
Hampden-Sydney 9, W&L 6
Lynchburg 17, W&L 4

W&L 13, Guilford 10
Guilford 10, W&L 5

VMI 6, W&L 1

2nd of 7 at Bluefield Fall Classic

4th at 16 at Ferrum Fall Invitational

4th of 7 at Randolph-Macon Invitational
2nd of 4 at Emory & Henry Invitational
2nd of 15 at Ferrum Spring Invitational
3rd of 6 at Hampden-Sydney Invitational
Ist of 7 at Virginia Wesleyan Invitational
4th of 14 at Shipbuilder’s Invitational

Ist of 6 at Lynchburg Invitational

Ist of 9 at ODAC Championship

W&L 19, Mary Washington 3
W&L 7, Hampden-Sydney 6 (OT)
W&L 20, Randolph-Macon 10
W&L 16, Trinity (Conn.) 6
W&L 11, Lynchburg 5
Gettysburg 17, W&L 13
Roanoke 9, W&L 8 (OT)

W&L 21, Guilford 1

W&L 19, Virginia Wesleyan 5
W&L 13, St. Mary’s 12

Franklin & Marshall 14, W&L 11
Denison 9, W&L 2

Washington College 13, W&L 7
W&L 11, VMI8

W&L 15, Bridgewater 2

W&L 10, Lock Haven 9

W&L 24, Hollins 5

Lynchburg 13, W&L 5

W&L 15, Guilford 4

W&L 7, Randolph-Macon 6 (OT)
Mary Washington 8, W&L 6
W&L 6, Colby 5

Trenton State 20, W&L 7
W&L 17, Sweet Briar 4
William Smith 18, W&L 6
W&L 11, Roanoke 10
W&L 5, Frostburg State 4
W&L 9, Lynchburg 5
Roanoke 12, W&L 7

Davidson 7, W&L 0

Averett 5, W&L 2

W&L 5, Wooster 2

W&L 4, Ripon 3

Kenyon 5, W&L 2

W&L 6, Guilford 3
Hampden-Sydney 7, W&L 2
W&L 7, Eastern Mennonite 2
Lynchburg 5, W&L 4

W&L 6, Roanoke 3

W&L 4, Grove City 3

W&L 7, Davis & Elkins 0
W&L 7, St. Mary’s (Minn.) 0
The Citadel 4, W&L 3
Emory 7, W&L 0

W&L 7, John Jay 0 -
2nd of 10 at ODAC Championship
Washington College 7, W&L 0 ;

 
  
  
  
  
  
  
   

W&L 7, Radford 2

W&L 8, Wingate 1

W&L 8, Longwood 1 |
W&L 9, NazarethO ”

W&L Y, Virginia Wesleyan 0
W&L 9, Lynchburg 0

W&L 9, Roanoke 0

W&L 9, Bridgewater 0
Kenyon 5, W&L 4

W&L 9, Mary Washington 0
W&L 8, Randolph-Macon 1
W&L 8, Guilford 1

W&L 9, Towson State 0
W&L 7, Williams 2

W&L 9, St. Mary’s (Minn.) 0
W&L Y, Davis & Elkins 0
W&L 5, Emory 4

W&L 8, Sewanee 1

W&L 9, Hollins 0 x
Ist of 12 at ODAC Championships _
NCAA Tournament:
W&L 8, Skidmore 1
W&L 6, Amherst 3
Kenyon 5, W&L 4

W&L 5, Trinity (Texas) 4

3rd of 5 at ODAC Indoor Championsh :
9th of 12 at W&L Invitational _
3rd of 5 at ODAC Outdoor Championsh

All other meets non-scoring

ot)
2nd of 5 at ODAC Indoor Championshif
5th of 11 at W&L Invitational *
Ist of 5 at ODAC Outdoor Championsh |
All other meets non-scoring

eee

}

_—

BAD KNEE,
BRAVE HEART

[njured midfielder Scott Mackley
rovided the spiritual leadership
chat won the LLee-Jackson Classic

Scott Mackley’s final memories of
college lacrosse could have involved
standing helplessly on the sideline as his
ream dropped a crucial game. Instead
they will be of a joyous victory over a
neighboring rival before a big crowd. He
will have those memories because,
despite graduating from W&L with a 3.1
grade-point average, he doesn’t know
the meaning of the word quit.

Mackley, who first injured his knee
in the seventh grade and has had knee
surgery on three occasions, made one
final comeback this spring that resulted
in an emotional W&L victory over VMI
in the eighth annual Lee-Jackson
Classic. A comeback seemed to be the
last thing that he would need. After
missing all of the 1992 season with knee
injuries, Mackley came back to play full
seasons in 1993 and 1994, though
slowed at times by the injuries. He
opened 1995 as healthy as he had been
in years and through the first six games
of the season keyed W&L to a 5-1 start,
scoring 17 goals to lead the Generals
from his midfield position.

Then one day before W&L’s match
with archrival Roanoke, Mackley rein-
jured his knee in practice and as of the
morning of the game appeared unlikely
to play. “I couldn’t walk in the morning
and I told my roommates that there was
no way | could play,” he recalls. “But
that was one of our biggest crowds of
the year and all our friends were lined
“up on the fence about two hours before
the game. I just wanted to play.”

While obviously limited, Mackley
Played the full game and his knee loos-
ned up as the game wore on. “To tell
you the truth, | was trying to hide it,” he
admits. “I wanted to make it as believ-
able aS possible.” Few would have
Bteved the seriousness of the injury as
Mackley went one-on-one to the cage

4nd dove f
dove fully extended before wrap-

ii

 

¥
= -.

4B + “ ’ oe
” A ~— » * ‘ “* . ~ ue a
- n oy” oes wien a
P ot ete? a> 4“ >
* +,

peas
ee ee

 

ping a shot around the Roanoke goalie
for a key goal in W&L’s furious fourth-
quarter rally that eventually sent the
game into overtime.

Over the next four games Mackley’s
knee continued to bother him, but he
remained effective scoring seven goals
while adding four assists. The last of
those four games, however, was a 14-11
loss to Franklin & Marshall which left
W&L in a must-win situation for its
final three games if it hoped to receive a
playoff berth for the third time in
Mackley’s career. In the week of prac-
tice leading up to the first of those
games, Mackley reinjured the knee and
this time would be unable to play.

Mackley stood alone on the sidelines
watching the W&L offense struggle
without him in a 9-2 loss against
Denison. He stayed on the field long
after the game, just sitting on the bench
at Wilson Field for the final time. One
week later, he watched again from the
sidelines as W&L lost to Washington
College. As painful as those losses were,
nothing could suppress his desire to
come back one more time.

 

In the week leading up to
W&L’s final game Mackley
practiced just once, jogging
lightly on Thursday, but he
played the majority of the game

 

two days later against VMI.
Though he didn’t score, the
team came alive with Mackley
on the field, and the Generals
rallied from a 7-4 third quarter
deficit to win 11-8.

That final victory put a posi-
tive touch on a stellar four years
for the
Mackley finished his career
with 79 goals and 22 assists for
101 points, lofty totals for a
midfielder. He also earned hon-
orable mention All-America
honors and was selected to play
in this year’s North-South All-
Star game. Surprisingly he was
never named first team All-Old

Baltimore native.

 

Dominion Athletic Conference,
a fact that still somewhat burns
his head coach Jim Stagnitta,
who fully appreciates how
much he meant to the team.
“You're looking at a kid that scored 50
goals over the last two years while miss-
ing games and limping through others,”
says Stagnitta. “When he could play at
100 percent we were very successful. ‘To
be perfectly honest, I thought we had
enough depth when he got hurt, but he
offered something well beyond his abili-
ty. When he wasn’t out there, we were a
different team.”

Mackley’s will wasn’t lost on Stag-
nitta. “I’ve never been around someone
who could not only play, but contribute
and then not be able to walk the next
day.” he says. “He has an unbelievable
ability to play through pain.”

But perhaps Stagnitta’s highest com-
pliment is how Mackley made the best
of the situations presented to him. “He

,

came in here as a great player,” says
Stagnitta. “The injuries were obviously
very difficult on him and at times that
was frustrating. But he was able to over-
come that with pure desire and tough-
ness. He was an All-American with a
bad knee, and with a good knee he was
one of the best in Division III.”

—By Brian Logue

35

Photos: Arne Kuhimann ‘98 (4), W. Patrick Hinely ‘73 (5)

Alumnt News

 

 

Faces from Alumni Weekend (clockwise from
top left): president-elect John Elrod met and
greeted many alumni; Mervyn Silverman
‘60 catches up with Chip Schooley °70;
Swede Henberg ’70, student body president
during the anti-war protests of May 1970,
recalls a campus that “radicalized
overnight;” classmates Steve Van Amburgh
75 and Berke Wilson °75; professor of
history emeritus Charles Turner raises a
glass to the publication of his 31st book,
The Allen Family Letters; John Falk

‘85 embraces his wife and mother-to-be,
Jacqueline; members of the graduating Class
of 1995 celebrate their first alumni outing;
Art Fern °55 (center) and his classmates cast
an eye upon the weekend's festivities; and a
group of 1975 reuntonees marshaled together
by Bill Biesel strike a pose with the 11 Spouse Ss

for an absentee classmate.

36

For 1,500-Plus, An Affair to Remember

 

Picture-Perfect Weather Hails Another Reunion Weekeng :

 

 

 

 

Memories of two wars—Vietnam and
World War IIl—framed the experience
of Washington and Lee’s 25th and 50th
reunion classes during a spirited Alumni
Weekend in May. Some 1,500 alumni,
faculty, and friends participated in the
weekend’s activities.

The Class of °70 marked the silver
anniversary of the largest student
protest movement in W&L history with
a seminar reuniting most of the original
players. Then-student body president
Swede Henberg ’70 recalled a campus
that “liberalized overnight,” he said.
“Students that I knew to be far more
conservative than me were calling for
W&L to be shut down.”

“There was very little vehement
rhetoric, one on one, on the W&L cam-
pus,” remarked former president Robert
E.R. Huntley °50, °57L. He told a very
funny story about his wife Evelyn’s

 

 

geraniums, and how she asked the stu= ~

¥

dent activists sleeping on the porch of
the Lee House to put them inside if the
temperature dropped overnight. .
Referring to student activism today,
professor of politics Lew John said,”
“There is no overriding, galvanizing”
political situation.” Recent controver”
sies, he noted, have arisen over moving
fraternity rush to winter term, mandato=—
ry sophomore housing on campus, and |
raising the standards for the honor roll. —
The Class of °45—described by
President John Wilson Saturday morm=
ing as “the most vigorous bunch of sé
tuagenarians I know”—went through
special commencement ceremony fol-
lowing the annual joint meeting of th
undergraduate and law alumni associa
tions. Fifty years ago, only two of the
group’s original 275 members remained
on campus to receive their diplomas:

 

It’s all in the hands: 50th reunion chairman
Charlie Rowe 15 and his classmates assist
in the effort 2 war memorial endowment.

“I’ve read your papers...I’ve become
better acquainted with you,” Wilson
said. “You've earned our deepest grati-
tude.” Of his own pending departure,
he added, “This is a hard place to leave.”

National chairman Gerry Lenfest ’53
hailed Wilson’s contributions to the
success of the Campaign for Washington
and Lee. Referring to the school’s
namesakes, he said, “I believe strongly
that they would look down on this cam-
pus today and be proud.”

The Class of 1970 has reason to be
proud with gifts totaling more than $3.2

 

Outgoing Law Alumni Association president
Tom Millhiser 811, passes the torch to his
successor, David Redmond ’66, 69L.

million to the campaign, including
$802,211 in new dollars (a 25th-reunion
record). Gifts will establish a scholarship
honoring President Huntley and build a
laboratory in the new science center in
memory of W&L biology professor and
classmate Gary Dobbs.

Law dean Barry Sullivan told his first
reunion gathering, “The most important
statistic I can give you...is that the law
school isn’t any different than it was
when you were here—it’s still the finest
small law school in the country.”

The law classes of 1985 and 1990 cel-

 

mo: Class of ‘70/Rob,

 
 

 

     

   

  

      
  

  

Gary Dobbs Me: BIC Op y a1boratc
- — ee + bad f erS;- as gsm

SEES Dp EA ee Ta

; pees pO cits oe nah rail
me _ ee StS case ; aH

  

The Hon. Chris Coursen ’70 headed a 25th-

reunion effort that has raised more than

$802,211—and still growing in new gifts.

ebrated their reunions by boosting their
annual and capital giving and increasing
their class participation rates from 30
percent to nearly 50 percent. ‘The Class
of *85L, led by reunion chairman Ross
Newell °81, ’85L and class agent Jon
Rak, raised nearly $15,000 in honor of
classmate Sean Healy and professor ‘Tim
Philipps. Under the leadership of class
agents John Falk ’86, *90L and Tim
Hodge and reunion chair Loranne Ausley
Ellis, the Class of ’90L raised nearly
$10,000 in annual and capital commit-
ments for the law school.

 

37

Bottom Photos: Arne Kuhlmann ‘98

Five New Members
Join Alumni Board

Five new directors were elected to
the Washington and Lee Alumni Board
at its annual meeting in May.

William E. Garrison III °76 is
involved in client services and commu-

nication as well as

assisting with in-

 

vestment research
Godsey &
Gibb Associates in

with

Richmond. Garrison
has a master’s in

 

public and private
management from

 

 

Yale University. A
past Richmond chapter president and
frequent phonathon volunteer, he has
also been active with the University’s
Alumni Career Assistance Program
since 1989 and a member of the
Doremus Society since 1993. A member
of Pi Kappa Alpha at W&L, Garrison
and his wife, Mary, have two children,
William and Meredith.

E.. Phifer Helms ’74 is corporate rela-
tionship manager for NationsBank of

 

N.C. in Charlotte. Helms was captain of
the track and field team at W&L. He
has an M.S. from the

 

Medical University
of South Carolina
and an MBA from
Clemson University.
A past president and
current board mem-

 

 

ber of the Charlotte
alumni chapter, he

 

was also a member

of the local area campaign committee. A
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
Helms and his wife, Polly, have three
daughters, Virginia, Sarah, and Caroline.
L. Richards McMillan IT '69 is a part-
ner with Jones, Walker, Waechter,
Poitevent, Carrere & Denegre in New
Orleans. A former football player and
Sigma Society mem-
ber, McMillan has
been active in the
New Orleans Cam-
paign for W&L and
was a member of his
25th reunion class
committee last year.
A Phi Delta Theta,

Graduating Sons and Daughters of Alumni

 

 

is = &

= “+ nS

. > —¥

- — ae Le > a
~ = "

. mae i 2

ee kee

. a r

 

Front row: fathers Richard Lee Lawrence ’641.. Thomas R. Knol/ Sr. 861. Leonard C.

 

7

he and his wife, Lynne, have three chil.
dren, Leslie, Lee, and Hillary, g rising
sophomore at W&L.

Martin E. Stein Jr. °74 is Presideng
and chief executive of the Regency
Corp. ip
Jacksonville, Fla. An
SAE at W&L, his
many student affilia-
tions included Omj-
cron Delta Kappa,
Sigma, University
Council, and Con.
tact. He and his wife,
Brooke, have three
daughters, Kelly, Ashley, and Kimberly,

Realty

R. Alan Tomlin ’69 is a partner with
Wilson, Cribbs & Goren in Houston, 4
Kappa Sigma, he played on the football
team while at W&L and went on to

receive his law

 

 

 

 

 

degree from the
University of Texas
at Austin in 1973.
Tomlin served as
national chairman of
the Annual Fund for
the past two years,

 

retiring in July.

Bachelor's degree recipient G. Allen Scott IT.
and father Glenn A. Scott ’54 (top); father
Richard F. Cummins °59 and bachelor §

degree recipient Richard F. Gummins Jr.

Greenebaum °56. 581. Charles M. Smith Sr. °70, and Charles B. Rowe ’64L. Back row:
law degree recipients David D. Lawrence, Rebecca B, Knoll, Cathy 8S. Greenebaum, Charles
VU. Smith Jr.. and Ashley B. Rowe.

38
ee

 

 

 

 

her William C. Washburn Sr. °40, fathers William Washburn Jr. °66, James §. Corbett ’62, Charles E.. Long Ill °66, Joseph
H. Fran hn W. Vardaman Jr. ’62, Lawrence J. Fisher 111 °67, grandfather L. John Fisher Jr.’42, father Robert H. Cofteld ’65, and
grandfat H. Cofield ’41. Back row: bachelor’s degree recipients Wiliam C. Washburn III, Andrew 8. Corbett, Charlotte B. Long,
Joseph B , H. Davis Vardaman, Susan L. Fisher, and Stacey S. Cofteld.

Front?

 

ee
. ; -

a he
Ay

e-~:

.

 

 

Front row Robert H. Powell Ill °64, ’67L, Brooks G. Brown III °65, John P. Roy ’64, Bobby M. Crider ’61, Edward Cohen ’55, °57L,
E. Rand: ‘ton Jr. °64, and D. James French ’64. Back row: bachelor’s degree recipients Robert H. Powell IV, Elise C. Brown, Eleanor
H. Roy, M Crider, David L.. Cohen, Lois S. Wootton, and Amy §. French.

 

 

 

 

me |
“ \ >
Front row V. Alen Hollomon ’65, Michael E. Miles ’68, James C. Treadway ’67L, Michael 8. McCord ’65, Thomas F. Baker IV °71L,
J. Lindsey "65, °67L, and Nathaniel J. Cohen ’64. Back row: bachelor’s degree recipients Samantha E.. Hollomon, Alexandra C. Miles,
Elizabeth idway, Rebecca M. McCord, Carrie P. Baker, Ashley K. Short, Francie L. Cohen, and Robert B. Hines (son of the late L.

Broo ks H

 

 

 

 

Front a | ae iets oe aes cs SRS
ont roz /ward F. Meyers ’61, °63L, James M. Turner Jr. ’67, °71L, Tinkham Veale IIIT ’69, William B. Biddle ’70, F. William

Burke 64

} non W. Holleman Jr. ’58, and Edgar H. MacKinlay ’58, ’64L. Back row: bachelor’s degree recipients Mallory A. Meyers,
aMes> M

linkham Veale IV, Compton M. Biddle, Taylor L. Burke, Elizabeth W. Holleman, and Vanessa J. MacKinIay.

39

=

Hall of Fame Adds Four

Swimmer and water polo player Mike
Bernot °82, lacrosse player Sam Engle-
hart °73, former football coach Lee
McLaughlin, and football player Tony
Perry ’77 will be inducted into the
Washington and Lee Athletic Hall of
Fame during its eighth annual banquet
Sept. 22 in Evans Dining Hall. The
group will be also honored during half-
time ceremonies of the W&L-Centre
College football game Sept. 23.

Mike Bernot ’82 was a shining example
of athletic and academic excellence who
starred in the ‘T'wombly Pool as a mem-
ber of the Generals’
water polo and
swimming teams
and graduated in the
top ten of his class.
Bernot earned first-
team All-America
honors in swimming
in 1980, 1981, and
1982 and finished as
the national runner-up in the 50- and
100-yard freestyle events at the 1982
NCAA Division III championships. In
water polo, he earned first team all-

 

league honors in 1981 while serving as
captain of a team that won a school-
record 31 games.

 

Sam Englehart ’73 remains the most
prolific scorer in the history of W&L’s
storied lacrosse pro-
gram. He tallied at
least 35 goals in each
of his four seasons
and graduated with a
school-record 180
goals—nearly 50
goals higher than
any other player in
Washington and Lee
history. Englehart became the school’s
first three-time first team All-American
and helped the Generals to a record of
44-9 in his career and NCAA Tourna-
ment appearances in 1972 and 1973,
including a semifinal berth in 1973
when he served as captain.

Lee McLaughlin revived W&L’s foot-
ball program and athletic program as a

whole while serving

 

as the Generals’
head football coach
from 1957 to 1967.
The Generals won
just two games in
the first four years
after the school abol-

 

 

 

 

ished the practice of
awarding athletic
scholarships in 1954, but McLaughlin
orchestrated an improbable success

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

story. From 1960 to 1962, the amiable
coach led W&L to a record of 25-1.4
that included a small college National
championship in 1961 and a College
Athletic Conference championship id
1962. Prior to his coaching career he Was
an All-American football player at the
University of Virginia.

Tony Perry °77 came to W&L from
nearby Waynesboro, Va., and was an
immediate sensation
on the football] and
track teams. He
started all four years
for the Generals as q
receiver and was an
all-conference selec.
tion each year, cyl-
minating with firse-
team football Alj-
America honors in 1976. Perry remains
W&L’s all-time leader in receptions
(154), receiving yards (2,122) and receiy-
ing touchdowns (16). In 1976, he served
as captain of W&L’s 5-5 team, the
Generals’ first .500 squad in nearly a
decade. In track, he and teammate
Phifer Helms ’74 became W&L’s first
athletes to qualify for the NCAA
Division III track and field champi-
onships in 1974. He also qualified for
the national meet in 1975 and ranks as
one of W&L’s top high jumpers.

 

 

Trustees Aplenty

Present and emeritus members of the Board of
Trustees gathered in May to commemorate John
Wilson’s retirement, which included a gala per-
formance at the Lenfest Center. First row (from
left): Frank Brooks ’46, Thomas Anderson "341,
S L. Kopald °43, rector emeriti John Newton
Thomas ’24 and Jim Ballengee ’48L, President
Wilson, rector Steve Miles ’51, Gerry Lenfest 35;
Royce Hough ’59, and Tom Touchton "60. Second
row: Gray Castle ’53, °55L, Steve Marks 39,
Pam White ’77L, Suzanne Thomas, Bill Board
man 63, °69L, Vaughan Morrissette, Hardim
Marion ’55, °58L, Charles Rowe °45, ‘SOL, Buck
Ogilvie 64, Bill Johnston 64, and Jerry South
‘54. Third row: Tom Broadus ’59, Bo DuBose
‘62, Bill Gottwald ’70, Pat Leggett, Sam Hollis
‘51, John Mullin ’63, Ted Van Leer ’51, Rupe
Johnson ’62, Ed Bishop ’68, Art Birney 50,
'52L, secretary Farris Hotchkiss °58, DuBose
Ausley ’59, and Gordon Leggett ’54. Fourth row:
Virginia Holton, Vernon Holleman '36, Bill
Lemon ’55, °59L, and John Robinson ‘72.

 

sracteristics: Howard

Distingu Ria |
Capito ‘66 f Knoxville, Tenn., Dick
Smith “41 nton, Va., and the Hon.
Bill Brot lr. °47, “50L of Charleston,
W.Va., we nized as Distinguished
Alumni ¢ remonties in Lee Chapel
May 13. P ‘ers told terrific stories about

each recip long to recount here.

 

director Rob Mish '76 pre-
nan Charlie Yates °70 with

Associate
sents class

the reunior hy for highest attendance.
Eighty men f the Class of ’70 returned
to Lexingt Vay for their 25th reunion.
More than

back to W&

setting Alu

ilumni altogether journeyed
Vay for another record-

ceke nd.

 

Scott Clin,
Catch up on
Cocktai | a

Smith i. a

ind classmate Ray Smith
‘umes during Friday night's
er on the Colonnade.
iduate class age nt for the
h, together with the law
irded the John Newton

Class 6 f 5c
Glumnj wa

Thy

IMaSs try eh a
GS [ra Né reunion class with the

largess gfe); .
SoS! 2101) ise over the previous year.

Mumnt Views

 

 

Retired Virginia Sen. Elliot Schewel 45
(Class Notes, page 43) and Betty Munger,

WEL bookstore manager from 1966 to 1983,

were initiated into Omicron Delta Kappa,
the national honorary leadership fraternity,
at the opening reunion assembly May 11. At
right is rising WEL junior Nathan Hottle,
recipient of the Rupert Latture Award.

 

President John Wilson holds the coveted
Lynchburg Citation at the chapter's annual
event April 20 at the Oakwood Country
Club as Lea Booth ’40 and Jack Schewel ’80

look on. “For his broad-gauged comprehen-

sion of the University’s mission, his abiding
alleziance to its heritage and his determined
commitment to validating and strengthening
its historic traditions...For his genuine
concern for students and his generous spirit
and compassion in relating to his colleagues
and associates...For his vision and vigor in

building upon the University’s established

foundations of physical and human

resources toward further developing a legac)
of excellence...John Wilson ts indeed non

incautus futur.”

 

 

Distinguished Young Alumni recipients,
honored in Lee Chapel May 13: Bill Goodell
SOL (left). who recently moved to New York
City after 15 years with King © Spalding in
Atlanta, is vice president and general counsel
for Tiger Management. Jed Dunn ’82 (right)
serves as chairman of the board of Coleman

Envelope and Printing in Greensboro, N.C.

 

Love that ¢ up: Earl M. Vickers °45, ’49L

of Montgomery, Ala., proudly hoists the
reunion bowl awarded to the Class of ’45 for
the highest percentage of class attendance. A
total of 34 alumni, more than 30 percent of
the 115 members of the class still living,

made the trek back to Lexington for their

golden anniversary in May.

 

Land of 10,000 Meters: from left, Minnesota

chapter co-president Susan Gregory °91,
John Culley ’33, Josephine Schaeffer ’96,
and coaches Jim Phemister and John Tucker
celebrate Schaeffer's 10,000-meter run at the
Division III track and field championships
at Carleton College in Northfield in May.

41

Class Notes

‘26

The Rev. Charles W. Lowry Jr.

celebrated his 90th birthday with a
reception at Emmanuel Episcopal
Church in Southern Pines, N.C., in
April.

ae

Alfred F. Taylor
of Grosse Point Farms, Mich., cele-
brated his 90th birthday in Arizona

with numerous relatives and friends.

His wife’s grandfather, Confederate
veteran Edward C. Gordon 1871,
was General Lee’s secretary at
Washington College.

aed
Paul A. Hornor

is 86 years young and still going
strong in Clarksburg, W.Va.

’
36

J. Bernard Spector

is “still hanging in there” at 85 but

still can’t shoot his age in golf. He

lives in Miami Beach, Fla.

’
33

Dr. William T. DeVan

of Hanover, Pa., hopes to visit cam-

pus sometime this year and looks

forward to the Five-Star Generals

reunion in 1998, his 65th reunion

celebration.

’
34

Dr. Milton L. Harris

is retired and enjoying life in Baton

Rouge, La. He plays golf, grows

roses, and travels.

Neil C. Pascoe

and his wife, Ruth, celebrated their
55th wedding anniversary in May.
They have lived in Naples, Fla.,
since his retirement in 1974.

’
a7

Frederick deR. Strong

still works for three charitable orga-

nizations and manages to find some

time to play golf too. He lives in

Burton, S.C., and hopes to see his

classmates for the 60th reunion in

October.

36

William M. Allen

of Louisville, Ky., recently pub-
lished a book of limericks titled The
Irish Had a Word for It.

42

Robert F. Corrigan

has retired from the Foreign Service
and lives in Chevy Chase, Md. His
last posts were ambassador to
Rwanda, deputy assistant secretary
of defense (ISA), and consul general
in Sao Paulo, Brazil. In his “retire-
ment,” he works as a consultant to
Chiquita Brands International,
director and program chairman of
the Washington Institute of Foreign
Affairs, and coordinator of interna-
tional lunches for the Cosmos Club
in Washington, D.C.

Walter B. Eager

of Vero Beach, Fla., continues to
play golf. As a hobby, he writes out-
door stories for national magazines
and the local newspaper. He recent-
ly attended a reunion of the 390th
Bomb Group in Orlando and
noticed that his wartime buddies
“don’t look 19 to 22 years old any-
more!”

Leonard Leight

of Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., and
his wife took a 12-day tour through
the Canadian Rockies last year. The
couple celebrates their 50th wed-
ding anniversary this year with their
entire family on a week-long cruise
in the southern Caribbean.

’
37

William D. Fishback

is still farming in Versailles, Ky., and

raises thoroughbred horses and reg-
istered Angus cattle.

’
3S

George F. Bauer Jr.

reports that he “likes the out-of-

doors but can sometimes be found

surfing the Internet.” He frequently

travels from his home in Middle-

town, Ohio, to Montgomery, Ala.,

where he has met many alumni.

S. Parker McChesney Jr.
received a recognition award for out-
standing contributions to the social
and economic development of
Montserrat from the governor and
chief minister last February. He
lives in Overland Park, Kan.

Col. John H. Shoaf

spent last March in Nicaragua on a
“Farmer to Farmer” project spon-
sored by WinRock International and
USAID. He lives in The Wood-
lands, Texas, and reports that he is
“into his 79th year on Earth.”

Ernest B. Walker Jr.

and his daughter, Jil, enjoyed
attending an Alumni College course
last summer. He lives in Louisville,
Ky., and reports that “the dorms and
food were really great, and we loved
all the people attending. It couldn’t
have been any better.”

SSL

Walter B. Eager
See °36.

Leonard Leight
See °36.

‘39

Waller C. Hardy Jr.

has become the first person ever
made an honorary member of the
Board of West Virginia Foundation
for Independent Colleges. He is
also a senior active member of the
Rotary Club of Parkersburg, W.Va.
He and his wife, Charlotte, live in
Vienna, W.Va., and have two sons,
Waller III and Everette.

Alfred R. Kreimer

and his wife moved to Australia in
1981. He still misses the United
States but says that “life in Australia
is also very good.” His three chil-
dren and six grandchildren are all
citizens and residents of Australia.

Rodney L. Odell

was featured on Radio Netherlands
in a worldwide broadcast marking
the 50th anniversary of V-E Day.
He was a SHAEF observer in Hol-
land during the liberation from the
Nazis. A retired newspaperman, he
splits his time among St. Augustine,
Fla., Ship Bottom, N.J., and Maine.

SME:

William D. Fishback
See °37.

;
40

Jackson G. Akin

recently received a phone call at 2

a.m. from classmate Charlie Curl

inviting him to Spain to fly ona

blimp which Curl purchased in that

country. Akin lives in Albuquerque,
N.M.

Donald T. Burton

of Sunrise, Fla., and his wife, Betty,
celebrated their 50th wedding
anniversary with a gathering of
friends and family on Jan. 6, 1995.

Lawrence E. Carson

has taken “some eight or nine trips
to various parts of Europe” and is
planning a visit to the Orient later
this year. He lives in Montgomery,
W.Va.

Charles C. Curl Jr.

returned to St. Simons Island, Ga.,
after a month taking pictures from
his helium blimp in Costa del Sol,
Spain.

Edwin H. Miller

retired as U.S. magistrate in the dis-
trict for Maryland two years ago and
recently from the practice of law.
He plays golf in Naples, Fla., during

 
  
 
  
     
    
   
   
 
   
  
 
  
   
 
    
  
 
   
 
    
   
   
   

the winter seasons and Spends ¢}
summers in Maryland.

41

Benjamin F. Ashcroft
lives in Sulpher Springs, Texas,
still works at “the same old job se
ing Coca-Cola and soda pop,” He
has three children and seven eran
children.

Richard M. Herndon 3
of Winter Springs, Fla., took an

enjoyable 18-day tour of Costa R
He also had a pleasant visit with —
classmate Charles Chapman and
wife, Martha.

Kenneth Van de WaterJr.
and his wife, Mary, have moved —
back to Lexington after 54 years.

42

William M. Atlee
has been semi-retired in Jackse
ville, Fla., since 1986 but still se
various clients accumulated duri
his 40 years in the insurance bu:
ness. He keeps busy through tk
Episcopal Church as an adult §
day school teacher, Lay Eucharis
and Stephens minister, and coun
selor. He is also involved in sor

political activity, “so necessary fi
us all in these fast-moving times.

Louis C. Greentree
had a great time on the Alumni |
College’s Caribbean cruise in
February. He lives in Richmond
plans to return to campus for me
programs.

Dr. Michael W. Lau

attended the Yale School of
Medicine and practiced urology ii
Los Angeles for 35 years before
retiring. g

John H. (Jack) McMillan —
of Metairie, La., has a granddaug
ter in W&L’s Class of 1998. Hill
Anne McMillan is following in

footsteps of her father, Richard
and uncle, John °71.

’
43
Donald E. Garretson
and his wife, Adele, spent five _
weeks in Tucson, Ariz., as a gue
an American Field Services “
from Afghanistan who lived with
them for a year in the 1960s. He
writes, “How wonderful it is to!
that unique gratitude and thank
from a refugee/immigrant.” The
couple lives in St. Paul, Minn.

Donald L. Richardson
and his wife, Patricia, are proud
their fourth great-grandchild,
Colleen Marie Livingston. They
also have three great- grant
The couple lives in Auburn Hill
Mich.

”

 

randers
ad . Sie close to home in
o Plains, N.Y., but visited Cape
a Mass. in April and is attending
e wife’s 50th reunion at Grinnell
College in June. The couple hopes
be in Lexington for the Five-Star
Generals reunion in October.

y. Neely Young

travelled from his home in

Richmond to Atlanta for oldest
ndson Joshua's graduation from

pace Academy. Joshua is entering

W&L as a freshman with the Class

of 1999 and is the fourth generation

of Youngs CO attend.

45
R. Edwa rd Jackson

of New York was inducted into the
N.C. Journalism Hall of Fame in

April.

45

Warren U. Ober

has retired as a professor of English
literature at the University of
Waterloo in Ontario, Canada. In
recognition of his scholarly achieve-
ments, he received the title of
Distinguished Professor Emeritus at
the spring convocation in May.

49

William A. Chipley

“stays fully informed about what’s
going on in Lexington because
Lookout Mountain, Tenn., is full of
Lee’s gentlemen.” If he doesn’t
pick up the news at home, he hears
itin Lynchburg, Va., when he visits
his family once or twice a year. If he
doesn’t hear anything in Lynchburg,
he writes, “then it’s just not hap-
pening.”

Dr. Henry P. Lamb Jr.

retired in 1987 after 34 years of prac-
ticing dentistry. He stays active by
bowling in a seniors league, singing
ina mixed choral group, The Mello-
D’s, and tutoring adults deficient in
English. Last fall, he played the

lead role in On Go/den Pond at the
Chamberlayne Theater in

Richmond.

;
50
Howard L. Steele
fontinues to work for the U.S.
Partment of Agriculture as senior
Professional officer in the foreign
el Service, where he helps
tpret government agricultural
pment policies within multi-
_ Organizations. After 25
he a SDA and 16 years teach-
€mson, Ohio State, and
omy he believes that despite
?9U Tead in selected newspa-

—

pers and periodicals, food is still
important in our society. He lives in
Fairfax, Va.

Dr. C. Dwight Townes Jr.
retired last January after 30 years
practicing family medicine in the
Minneapolis area. He enjoys sitting
by the fire, looking out the window
and watching the snow fall.

J. Arthur Wood Jr.’s

private collection of 45,000 original
cartoons by 3,000 artists, including
many of the most famous cartoonists
in history, is the centerpiece of the
National Gallery of Caricature and
Cartoon Art, which opened this May
in Washington, D.C.

’
51
Thomas C. Damewood
began practicing law in Charleston,
W.Va., in 1956 and retired last year
as a partner in Kay, Casto, Chaney,
Love & Wise. He has served for
more than 25 years in the W.Va.
Army National Guard. In March, he
travelled to Guatemala with a group
of physicians, dentists, and nurses to
staff a clinic for the poor. He worked
as group Statistician and even did
some interpreting. He writes, “It’s
amazing how much [Spanish] came
back from those years in Payne Hall
with Drs. Barrett and Ewing.”

Guy B. Hammond

expects to retire after 37 years as a
professor of religious studies at
Virginia Tech in Blacksburg and
will devote more time to writing,
tennis, and golf.

Robert T. Pittman

received the St. Petersburg Bar
Association’s Liberty Bell Award for
service to the community in May.
Pittman retired in 1991 as vice presi-
dent and editor of editorials for the
St. Petersburg (Fla.) 7imes.

Thomas R. Shepherd
lives in Stow, Mass., and has 10
grandchildren.

Robert W. Storey

has retired from active law practice
and serves as a volunteer counsel to
various civic, church, and political
groups. He and his wife, Julia, plan
to spend more time traveling from
their home in Atlanta to their sum-
mer cottage in Montreat, N.C.

5S

H.F. (Gerry) Lenfest

of Pottstown, Pa., was recently
named a member of the board of the
Chesapeake Bay Foundation.

Stephen F. Lichtenstein
has joined Sterns & Weinroth in
Trenton, N.J. as of counsel.

chewel Be Missed

Given the current climate of cynicism surrounding politics, the
words “honorable” and “politician” may seem to be strange bed-
fellows, if not a downright oxymoron. But the career of Elliot S.
Schewel °45, who retired recently from the Virginia State Senate

after 20 years, hearkens back

 

to a time when a life devoted
to public service was consid-
ered an honorable calling.
Among other notable achieve-
ments during his tenure as a
Democratic senator from
Lynchburg, he became known
as “the conscience of the
Senate” for his strong, and

 

 

often unpopular, positions on
ethical issues involving state
legislators. “I led the battle,
not altogether successfully, on
tightening up the laws that

 

dealt with ethical behavior,”
Schewel says from his home in
the Hill City. “Being a product
of Washington and Lee, with
that history and the whole

The “conscience of the Senate,”
Elliot Schewel 45 retired in May
after 20 years of service to Virginia.

milieu of integrity that surrounds the educational process there,
had an effect on me that has lasted my whole life.”

Schewel, who was an executive in the family furniture business
of the same name until 1986, was first elected to the Senate in
1975 after a stint on the Lynchburg City Council. Long regarded
as one of the most effective legislators in Richmond, he was also
responsible for creating a new set of grievance procedures for state
employees, negotiating with both management and labor toward
an equitable process and avoiding unionization of those workers.

It also became clear to him that Virginia had virtually no finan-
cial structure for making loans to small businesses. Schewel devot-
ed two years toward the creation of the Virginia Economic
Development Corp., obtaining $1 million in state money to serve
as a reserve against losses while raising another $12 million
through a not-for-profit private corporation. Right now, he says,
the VEDC has nearly $6 million out in loans to businesses that
otherwise would not have gotten the money.

By the beginning of his final term in 1991, Schewel knew that it
would be his last. “I found myself going to Richmond an average
of twice a week,” he says. “I'll be 71 shortly, and when the
General Assembly is in session, it’s very stressful and pressurized.
And that stress was perilous,” leading to a heart attack several
years ago. Although he plans to stay involved in politics out of his
“interest, love, and concern for Virginia,” Schewel also plans to
play tennis, paint, and do more traveling with his wife, Rosel.

Just don’t expect him to become a slouch. Asked whether
Virginia politics had changed for the better or worse during his
years in the ring, he replies most assuredly in the negative. “We
always had intense disagreement on contentious issues,” he says,
“but there was an air of civility about Virginia politics. With our
current administration, there is a mean-spiritedness that has come
to envelop the General Assembly that has never existed before.
Virginia seems to be following a national trend in that direction.”

Don’t be foo surprised—that’s just the the voice of conscience
speaking.—By William Cocke °82

C. Richard Lovegrove

of Bellefonte, Ky., retired after near-
ly 42 years with Appalachian Power
and Kentucky Power. In his 29 years
at Appalachian Power, he was staff
writer, editor, and supervisor of pub-
lic information. He accepted the
position of public affairs director
with Kentucky Power in 1982. He
and his wife, Jane, plan to move
south in retirement.

Robert J. Maccubbin

is enjoying his grandchildren and
retirement in Charlotte. He travels
as much as possible and is trying to
improve his golf handicap.

Daniel C. Stickley Jr.

has finally retired in Harrisonburg,
Va., and is trying to catch up on all
the things he hasn’t done in the last
few years.

Rodney F. Stock Jr.

was chairman and instigator of a
mini-reunion of the 24th Infantry
Division Association in Sparks,
Nev., in April. He lives in Reno.

’
54
Dr. Brian Crowley
has been elected president of the
Washington (D.C.) Psychiatric
Society. He has been an APA fellow
since 1973 and has held executive
positions with the American
Academy of Psychiatry and the Law.
He currently practices in Washing-
ton and at Suburban Hospital.

Walter E. Smith

was elected a fellow in the American
Group Psychotherapy Association at
the AGPA’s annual conference in
Atlanta.

The Hon. Anthony Valen

of Middletown, Ohio, has been re-
elected as common pleas court
judge for a six-year term.

SAL

Robert W. Storey
See ’52.

;
55

Dr. Watson A. Bowes Jr.

has received the 1995 distinguished

faculty award for his work as profes-

sor in the department of obstetrics

and gynecology at the University of

North Carolina at Chapel Hill

School of Medicine.

Frederic M. (Chubby) Bryant Ill
retired last July after 35 years with
Alex Brown & Son Inc., where he
was a general partner, managing
director, and lastly a principal. He is
enjoying his grandchildren, golf, and
fishing in Baltimore.

Scott B. Clinton
of Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., volun-

teers in a soup kitchen, takes Bible
study and boating courses, and
enjoys walking, fishing, travel, choir,
and home repair.

Edward Cohen

lives in Plymouth Meeting, Pa., and
has a son, David, who graduated
from W&L in June.

Robert M. Cullers

garnered three team gold medals
last July at the Pennsylvania State
Senior Olympics in softball, basket-
ball, and volleyball. He also won a
silver in fly casting and a bronze in
tennis doubles. He works as a travel
marketing consultant in North
Wales, Pa.

Roland C. (Rody) Davies Jr.
is still very busy with his architec-
tural practice and many civic and
community groups. He lives in
Philadelphia and splits his practice
between that city and Annapolis,
Md., where he and his wife, Peggy,
hope to settle permanently and do
some “serious sailing.”

John F. Davis

is retiring from Goddard Space
Flight Center after 38 years and ten
months. He began his career with
the Vanguard Program, which start-
ed the United States on the road
after the Russian Spusnik launch.
His work involved all the weather
satellites and eventually led him to
technical management. He lives in
Silver Spring, Md.

Pegram Harrison

received his master’s degree from
Dartmouth College last June. He is
mostly retired and lives in Atlanta.

John T. Huddle

has decided not to seek reelection as
law director of the city of Lancaster,
Ohio, and finishes his 11th term this
year. He plans to devote full time to
his law firm, Huddle and Rose.

Paul R. Muller

is active with the annual Historic
Savannah (Ga.) Foundation Tour of
Homes and the effort to restore the
Savannah-Ogeechee Canal.

Dr. O. Bertrand Ramsay

retired from Eastern Michigan
University as a chemistry professor
and devotes his time to his company,
Chemical Concepts Corp., which
markets his patented chemical cal-
culator. He lives in Ypsilanti, Mich.

Charles K. Slick

of Cashiers, N.C., is chairman of the
history department and director of
the academically gifted program at
Blue Ridge School.

’
56
William H. Fishback Jr.

has retired from the administration
at the University of Virginia but

continues in the English depart-
ment as senior lecturer. He is also
special consultant for the universi-
ty’s capital campaign, which will be
launched later this year.

Jean M.G. Grandpierre

of Nancy, France, and his family,
visited W&L last summer and “very
much appreciated” the way they
were welcomed.

Samuel A. Syme Jr.

participated in the 17th annual
Quebec Summer Seminar in
Montreal and Quebec City in June.
He is a lecturer in history at Coastal
Carolina University in Conway, S.C.

’
SF

The Hon. J. Colin Campbell

is judge of the 27th judicial circuit

of Virginia. He was previously chair-

man of the Grayson County (Va.)

Republican party.

Charles F. Davis Jr.

came out of retirement in North
Carolina in 1993 to assist in the set-
up of an international department at
a bank in San Francisco. He retired
once again in Pittsboro, N.C., last
January only to find himself return-
ing to San Francisco for another year
of work. He writes, “If you must
work, San Francisco is the place to
do it, but after this—retirement!”

Donald C. Spann

of Greenville, S.C., retired from
Span-America Medical Systems, a
public company he founded in 1974.
He cut the grass three times a week
for three weeks before starting two
new ventures. He now flies around
the country on both business and
pleasure and has five grandchildren.

ORE

Edward Cohen
See °55.

’
58

James J. (Jay) Crawford Jr.

has been consulting in international

oil and gas since retiring from Sun

Co. in 1992. He is currently on

assignment as general manager for

Apache Cote D'Ivoire Petroleum in
Abdijan, Cote D'Ivoire.

W. Philip Laughlin

continues his involvement with the
execution of petrochemical projects
for Exxon in Singapore, Malaysia,
and Thailand as a senior project
management consultant.

SIL

The Hon. J. Colin Campbell
See °57.

Charles F. Davis Jr.
See °57.

;
60

Edward Bell Jr.
was named president of the Lar
Co. in Altavista, Va. He joined ¢
company in 1970 as manager of ¢
processing and in 1990 was

senior vice president for the
ory Chair, Pearson, Lane Upholst
Venture, and HBF divisions.

John T. Crone Ill

is vice president of Ellison
Developments and Ellison Ine.
is president of Crolanco Ine. and
R.L. Emerson & Co. He lives jp
Antonio, ‘Texas.

Franklin 8S. DuBois Jr.
is director of member relations fe
LIMRA International, an ins
industry trade association. He ]j
in West Hartford, Conn., travel.
extensively, and writes that “rer
ment can’t come soon enough!”

Robert R. Feagin Ill
has been elected chair of the di
tors committee at Holland & Kr
in Tallahassee, Fla. He is a part
in the firm and handles antitru:

gation and counseling.

William G. Loeffler Jr.
has been named to the Meckler
burg County advisory board of
United Carolina Bank in White

N.C. He is also president of the
Charlotte Basketball Committee
and chairman of the National
Advertising Agency Network.

60L

George E. Anthou
and his wife, Joan, visited their
Greg °96, during his spring term
Seville, Spain, where he is study
the Spanish language and cultur
Anthou lives in Canonsburg, F

’
61

Henry H. Harrell }

received the silver award from

Financial World as CEO of the

in agriculture. He is chief execu

of Universal Corp. in Richmone

Richard W. Hoover
is U.S. permanent representati\
the U.N. Environmental Progra
and Habitat and is retiring from
Foreign Service this September.
and his wife, Catalina, will reloe
from Fairfax to somewhere else

Old Virginia.

‘62

David W. Benn
retired last year as president of t
American Club after a four-year
term. He lives in Seaforth, New

   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
 
   
    
   
  
  
    
  
  
  
 
  
    
   
   
   
  

”

Wales, Australia, and remains

th
——— of the American
tramber of Commerce.

“PL

gdward Bell Jr.
See "60.

’ b 3

Thomas G. Andrew Jr.

enjoyed seeing fellow Puget Sound
(Wash.) alumni when Southern
Comfort and JubiLee visited in
February. He has been in Seattle for
10 years doing organizational effee-
iveness consulting. He enjoys sail-
ing and has two children in college.

samuel D. Tankard Ill
retired from the Norfolk (Va.)
Botanical Gardens after 22 years. He
belongs to Bayside Lions and
Haygood Singles.

64
Philip S.E. Bo oth

enjoys his work as performing arts
coordinator for the N.Y. Association
for New Americans, counseling,
evaluating, befriending, and trying
to find employment for newly
arrived refugees from the former
Soviet Union. He lives in New York
and is returning to the Metropolitan
Opera this fall as principal bass for
The Magic Flute and Die Meistersinger.

Martin E. (Sandy) Galt Ill
“has been named chairman and chief
executive of Boatmen’s Trust Co. in
St. Louis. The company manages
$40 billion in assets for pension
plans, companies, and private
investors and ranks about 16th
among the nation’s trust companies.

Donald B. McFall

of Houston was inducted as a fellow
into the American College of Trial
Lawyers at its spring meeting in
Florida.

Floyd W. McKinnon
of Scarsdale, N.Y., has a son, Robert,
Who is a rising junior at W&L.

Robert H. Po wel/ III
completed his terms of office as
President of the Rotary Club of
Norfolk (Va.) and the Tidewater
Estate Planning Council. He is a
‘enior partner at Williams Kelly &
Greer and has two children, Paige
‘1 and Robert H. IV, who gradu-
ated from W&L, in June.

65

Peter H. Alford

_ wife, Jennifer, and sons,

* - and Charlie, are enjoying
: afayette, Colo., where he is
ctor of admissions at the

el

Dawson School, a 6-12 day and
boarding school.

Roland S. Corning

has been appointed administrative
law judge with Workers Compensa-
tion Commission in Columbia, S.C.,
by Gov. Campbell. He has also com-
pleted eight years in the S.C. House
of Representatives.

The Rev. Thomas T. Crenshaw
teaches, coaches, and serves as pas-
tor of a Baptist church in Red Bank,
N.J.

Gregory E. Euston

of Jacksonville, Fla., had a great
time with the Alumni College pro-
gram “Exploring the Yachtsman’s
Caribbean” last February.

Victor R. Galef

is senior vice president and manag-
ing director at SEI Investment
Services Inc. in Wayne, Pa. He is
also on the boards of directors of the
Advertising Council and the
Association of National Advertisers.

Allan C. Hubbard

and his wife, Rochelle, celebrated
the first birthday of their son, Moses
Allan, in February. The family lives
in Washington, D.C.

Peter H. Lawrence
invites old friends to look him up in
San Diego.

Dr. Robert E. Lee Ill

of West Bloomfield, Mich., is direc-
tor of clinical training for the marital
and family therapy doctoral program
at Michigan State University.

S. Reed Paynter

works in Richmond as business
manager of advanced fiber systems
for DuPont.

Eugene L. Pearce Ill

has started his own firm, Buckhead
Capital Management, in Atlanta
after 11 years as a portfolio manager
at Invesco Capital Management.

George W. Price Ill

is senior financial consultant at
Merrill Lynch in Spartanburg, S.C.
He and his wife, Betty, spent the
post-Christmas holidays in Jackson
Hole, Wyo., where their married
daughter lives. His son, Zan, is a ris-
ing senior at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Norman Yoerg
is antitrust counsel for MASCO
Corp. in Taylor, Mich.

John C. Yost

is enjoying semi-retirement and fre-
quent travels to Mexico and Central
America to gather information for
his first novel, which will involve
non-stop action, sex, drugs, beauti-
ful women, and political intrigue in
Mexico. He lives in Houston.

9

66
Harry G. Goodheart II1l
is a professional mediator and con-
sultant in dispute resolution. He is
chairman of the Florida Supreme
Court subcommittee on mediator
qualifications and has mediated
more than 1,000 cases in Florida and
the southeastern United States. He
and his wife, Ann, recently bought a
second home in Tryon, N.C., and he
is working with classmate Bob
Culpepper on mediation projects in
Charlotte.

Phillip D. Mollere

of New Orleans has continued his
involvement in Freeport-
McMoRan’s business efforts in the
former Soviet Union. Last fall, he
attended an intensive Russian lan-
guage school in Odessa, Ukraine.
He was also a speaker at the Sulpher
Institute symposium in Florida and
presented a paper titled “Business
in the FSU: Challenges and
Opportunities.”

G. Alexander Taft
is executive director of the Wilm-
ington (Del.) area planning council.

’
67

Cary J. Hansel Jr.

has been promoted to manufactur-

ing manager at Rust-Oleum Corp.'s

Hagerstown (Md.) plant. He previ-

ously worked as materials manager.

67L,

Robert H. Powell Ill
See 64.

9

68
James B. Batterson
has stepped down as president of
Batterson and Associates, a Rich-
mond data processing consulting
firm. He will continue in a consult-
ing capacity.

Andrew S. Ryan Jr.

has been named operations director,
west coast, for the systems engineer-
ing division of Computer Sciences
Corp. He lives in Thousand Oaks,
Calif.

J. Jeffrey Thistle

is practicing law with Devitt &
Thistle in Delray Beach, Fla. He is
married and has two children, Joe
and Ellen.

;
69

W. Douglas Hall

of Austin, Texas, is general manager

of the southwest region in the

national industry division of

Groundwater Technology Inc., a

national and international environ-

mental services company specializ-

ing in on-site remediation of soil and
groundwater contamination prob-
lems. His firm, Hall Southwest
Corp., was acquired by Groundwater
Technology last year.

O9L

Donald B. McFall
See °64.

‘70

John M. Nolan

has a son, Michael, who is entering
W&L as a freshman with the Class
of 1999. He lives in Princeton, N.].

TOL

The Hon. Ray W. Dexzern Jr.
was recently appointed as judge,
Norfolk (Va.) general district court
by the General Assembly of
Virginia. He has served as a substi-
tute judge for general district court
and juvenile and domestic relations
court since 1991 and is a partner in
the firm of Knight, Dudley, Dezern
and Clarke.

;
/1

Bradfield F. Wright

practices law and lives in Houston

with his wife, Lois, and children,

Mary Ellen, Philip, and Brad. He

was a Republican member of the

‘Texas House of Representatives for

14 years before retiring in 1991.

72

The Hon. William (Bud) Arnot
of Abilene, Texas, was recently
elected chief justice of the 11th
Court of Appeals of Texas. He has
been an associate justice on the
court since 1986.

Donald B. Cartwright

has lived in Boca Raton, Fla., for 13
years with his wife, Tina, and chil-
dren, Alison and Mark. He is a prin-
cipal with Cartwright Nolan Com-
mercial Properties Inc., a trustee for
the Museum of Discovery &
Science in Fort Lauderdale, and a
board member of the Broward
Economic Development Council.

Brian S§. Greig

was recently appointed to the board
of trustees of St. Stephen’s Episco-
pal School in Austin, Texas.

John P. Mello

was recently qualified as a certified
general appraiser by the Mass.
Board of Registration of Real Estate
Appraisers. He is the principal of
the John P. Mello Co., which pro-
vides appraisal services for proper-
ties in eastern Massachusetts and
Cape Cod. Mello lives in Rochester.

Hot Commodity

Get Ralph E. “Reg” Garner ’74 talking about the family busi-
ness, and you'll soon discover that it’s a hot topic—which is not
surprising since the T.W. Garner Food Co., makers of ‘Texas Pete

hot sauce, has been spicing up
®

palates at restaurants, kitchens,
and backyard barbecues for 66

years now. Working for the busi-

ness that his uncle acquired in

1929, at age 16, as the Dixie Pig

Barbecue Stand, was “pretty

® much all I ever wanted to do,”

claims Garner, who was named

president of the Winston-Salem (N.C.)-based company following
his uncle’s retirement last December.

After Thad Garner’s initial investment of $300, a deal that
included the Dixie Pig’s barbecue sauce recipe, father Samuel and
brothers Ralph and Harold joined the venture. Soon “The Four
Garners,” as they became known, began to sell the sauce—which
Garner’s grandmother made in batches on the kitchen stove—to
other restaurants. “There was some call for a spicier barbecue
sauce in the early ’30s,” Garner explains. “So instead of spiking it
up and changing the recipe, they came up with a hot sauce.”

Next, they needed to come up with a name. Mexican Joe was
bandied about, but Garner’s grandfather thought the name should
stay in the States. That led first to Texas and eventually to Pete,
“which was Uncle Harold’s nickname,” he says. Over the years,
the logo evolved from a Tom Mix-looking cowboy into the red,
stylized, lasso-twirling figure we know today.

The Garner operation quickly outgrew the family cookspace,
and for a few years they occupied an abandoned hospital’s institu-
tional-sized kitchen. In 1942, they built a 5,600-sq.-ft. production
facility near the site of the original family farm. A line of jams, jel-
lies, and preserves was added during World War II to supply sol-
diers at nearby Fort Bragg, and in the 1950s the Garners devel-
oped the first canned chili sauce for hot dogs. ‘Today, the company
sells nearly 50 products under the Texas Pete name, including
such recent additions as buffalo wing and honey-mustard sauces.

Texas Pete’s territory stretches as far north as Baltimore and as
far west as Texas. The company’s biggest meal ticket remains its
hot sauce—with sales of $4 million in 1993, according to a
Chicago-based marketing research company—and Texas Pete
even outsells Tabasco (the nationally known hot sauce from
Mcllhenny Island, La.) in the Southeast. Nevertheless, Garner
says, “We believe in a slow, steady approach. We don’t believe in
taking over the world.”

Garner grew up in the business, hitching his first ride on a com-
pany truck at age seven and spending his summers in the plant
before going to work full-time following his graduation from
W&L. In keeping with his father Ralph’s involvement on the pro-
duction side, Garner can often be found back in the plant, dressed
in jeans and boots. He promotes a familial atmosphere among the
company’s 50 to 60 workers, some of whom were there long before
he was born. “We try to have a good time with being a family busi-
ness,” he says. “It’s a challenge every day, but I like what I do.”

And, of course, Garner loves ‘Texas Pete hot sauce. “I try to eat
it every day,” he says. “I like it especially in soup, on pinto beans,
and with barbecue. It also goes well with eggs and grits. It’s amaz-
ing how many different ways it can be used.”—By William Cocke ’82

  

E. George Stook Jr.

is an associate professor of business
administration at Anne Arundel
Community College in Maryland.
He lives in Severna Park and recent-
ly received the Maryland Associ-
ation of CPAs’ Outstanding Teacher
Award.

’
73

Dean R. Harry

lives in Raleigh, N.C., where he is

president of Classic Wines, a whole-

sale wine and beer distributor. He

graduated from N.C. Central School

of Law last May and was admitted

to the state Bar last September.

Dr. Robert A. Silverman

has been appointed chief of derma-
tology at the Fairfax Hospital in
northern Virginia. He lives in
McLean, Va., with his wife, Pat, and
two sons, Elliott and Bennett.

,
/4

Dr. Fred W. Frick
practices medicine at Methodist
Hospital of Indiana and is actively
teaching residents and medical stu-
dents as an assistant clinical profes-
sor of medicine at the Indiana
University School of Medicine. He
continues to work for the Women’s
Tennis Association Tour, the ATP
Tour, and the International Tennis
Federation.

William B. Hill Jr.

is leaving his position as Fulton
County (Ga.) superior court judge to
become a partner in the Atlanta
office of Paul, Hastings, Janofsky &
Walker. His daughter, Melba Kara,
will enter W&L this fall.

Joel L. Legin

transferred last January from
Westinghouse Airships Inc. in
Baltimore to Westinghouse Electric
Corp.’s Naval Systems Division in
Cleveland, where he works as divi-
sion contracts manager. He lives in
Hudson, Ohio, with his wife, Janice,
and daughters, Meredith and
Caroline.

Douglas J. Newell

lives in Derry, N.H., and recently
founded a company, Tessera Inc.,
which provides high performance
systems integration for major corpo-
rations.

Lee R. Redmond Ill

has joined Kaiser Resources Inc. in
Ontario, Calif., as vice president for
real estate operations. His primary
responsibility is the construction of
the California Speedway, a location
for Indy and NASCAR races, to
open in the fall of 1996. He reports
that he “has enjoyed getting to
know the Penske driving team,
including Al Unser and Emerson

  
 
 
  
  
  
  
    
  
    
 
  
    
    
  
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
  

Fittipaldi.” He also writes that
“Winston Cup driver Rusty W.
is a cool dude.”

x

Jonathan H. Weigle

of Bettendorf, Iowa, has been
selected by the Society of
Manufacturing Engineers as one ¢
cight award of merit recipients for
1995. He is vice president of Swan
Engineering & Machine Co,

The Rev. Amos A. Workman
recently became pastor of the Fi
Covenant Presbyterian Church jn
Spartanburg, S.C. “a

‘=
.

’ .
75 |
Scott Glass
has been named executive direcre
of the Lynchburg (Va.) Historical
Foundation. He continues to run

architectural practice on a limited
basis.

James E. Toler Jr.

has taken a sales position with _
Advanced Telecom Services Ine., an
audiotext and telecommunicatior
business in Wayne, Pa. He lives in
Barrington, R.I.

B. Harrison Turnbull a
has joined Norelli & Co., a manage-
ment consulting firm in Charlotte,
as senior vice president.

s

>

Steven W. Van Amburgh >
is president of the southwest divi-
sion of Koll Real Estate Groupin
Dallas, where he lives with his wife,
Lee Ann, and three children, Sam,

Kate, and Pete.

45

Angelica D. Light
resigned as vice president and gen-—
eral counsel for Shenandoah Life —
Insurance Co. in Roanoke and
moved to Norfolk, Va., with her —
husband, Henry. She is enjoying a
“wonderful” sabbatical and tends to
family, pets, house, garden, and
church.

Robert S. Stubbs Ill a
of Marietta, Ga., has a son, David,
entering college this fall. 4

’
76

Isaac A. Fisher Jr.

is curriculum coordinator for the
pre-primary and lower school of
Friends School of Baltimore. He
received his master’s in clinical f
chology from Loyola College of
Maryland in May.

’
|

John T. Berley 5

of Bethesda, Md., is director of bu

ness reengineering with James

Martin & Co. The international

 

-

agement consulting firm focuses
= creasing the competitiveness of
. tions through socio-techni-
cal engineering. Berley’s group has

‘ects throughout the United
Tes, Mexico, Southeast Asia, and

Europe-

Carlton M. Henson Il |

of Aclanta argued the case of Reich v.

Collins before the U.S. Supreme

Court last October. The court ruled
ynanimously in his favor, with
ystice Sandra Day O'Connor
holding that Georgia must provide

refunds of taxes It illegally collected

from federal retirees in that state.

 

on inc

John L. Jackley a

is surveying timber and repairing
barbed wire on his wilderness ranch
in Oregon's ¢ ‘ascade Mountains
above the Columbia River Gorge.
His second book, Beneath the

Reltway, is about the soul of Wash-
ington, D.C.’s political culture and
will be published this fall. He can
be reached at jackley@teleport.com.

77L

William B. Hill Jr.
See °74.

Kevin J. Rielley

has been named an associate in the
law firm of Blacc, Hammesfahr &
Eaton in Chicago. He was previous-
ly a partner at Rudnick & Wolfe.

;
78

Dr. E. Brew Houston Jr.

and his wife, MaryLou, have three

children, Meredeth, Kendall, and

Brew III, and love living in Austin,

Texas.

Robert C. Peery Jr.

is still director of business planning
and development for Pinkerton
Tobacco, the makers of Red Man.
He lives in Richmond with his wife,
Laura, and three children, Camp,
Madelyn, and Lisa.

Richard W. (Rick) Stein
Was recently appointed a Paul Harris
Fellow by the Rotary Club of
Jacksonville, Fla. The award recog-
nizes those who have demonstrated
Sutstanding civic responsibility and
“ontinued adherence to the princi-
Ples of Rotary. Rear Admiral Max
Mortis, father of Billy Morris ’81,
Presented the honor. Brothers
Bobby Stein and Martin (Hap) Stein
4 are also Paul Harris Fellows and
Members of the same Rotary Club.

John F, Wheatley

and family have moved from
Penix, Ariz., to Matthews, N.C.

“© Works for the capital market

division of First Union Bank.

 

T3L

David S. Park

was elected to a second term as
Cheshire County (N.H.) attorney
last November. He lives in Keene
with his wife, Anne, and sons,
Nicholas and Jeffrey.

’
79
C. Hunt Brown Ill
is founder and president of Justice
For All, an organization which pro-
vides inexpensive office space in
downtown Atlanta to attorneys who
agree to handle an average of two
cases per week from people who
make too much to qualify for state
or federal legal aid but who still can-
not afford traditional legal help.

Capt. J. Randolph Sacks

is stationed at Fort Campbell, Ky.,
where he works in the contracting
office. He lives with his wife, Tina,
and daughters, Katie and Melanie,
in Clarksville, Tenn.

Clifford B. Sondock

is director of leasing for Spiegel
Associates, a real estate develop-
ment, management, and leasing
company based in Jericho, N.Y. He
lives in Manhattan with his wife,
Debra, and son, Jason Filmore.

’
SOU

Cy N. (Buddy) Bahakel Jr.

has recorded an album in Nashville,

Tenn., under the name Zachary

Hunter. The music is a mix of coun-

try, pop, and folk, and “Zack” will

be touring the South and West to

promote the disk.

Eugene P. Corrigan Ill

has been selected managing partner
of Grimball & Cabaniss law firm.
He also serves as president of the
Preservation Society of Charleston
(S.C.) for its 75th anniversary.

Maj. Mark E. Ginevan

has been assigned as the S-3 and
executive officer of the 59th Signal
Battalion in Fort Richardson,
Alaska, for the past two years. This
July, he, Kathy, Mark, Brandon, and
Tyler are moving to Washington,
D.C., where he will work in the
White House Military Office in
Presidential Contingency Programs.

Thomas R. Salley IIl

has been promoted to general coun-
sel and secretary of Allied Capital
Advisors Inc. in Washington, D.C.

Douglas H. Seitz

is a partner in the Baltimore law
firm of Wright, Constable & Skeen.
His areas of concentration are bank-
ruptcy, litigation, and commercial
law.

Bruce D. Wilmot

is the Republican nominee for the
Virginia House of Delegates for the
46th District (West Alexandria).

SOL

Mark K. Flynn

has served since May 1986 as city
attorney in Winchester, Va., where
he lives with his wife of five years,
Melissa. He is also past president of
Local Government Attorneys of
Virginia.

Charles W. Hundley
is a partner in the Richmond law
firm of White, Blackburn & Conte.

Eric H. Schless

and his wife, Lesley, moved to Old
Greenwich, Conn., last fall. He
works for Wertheim Schroder in
New York as a managing director in
corporate finance, heading the trans-
portation industries group.

Lesley Brown Schless
See Eric Schless *80L.

;
5]

Nicholas J. Brady

is a fixed wing and rotary wing avia-

tor and a rotary wing instructor pilot.
He lives in Lambertville, N.J.

Capt. Vincent Coviello

and his wife, Birgit, live in Ossining,
N.Y. He currently works for North-
ern Telecom Inc. as a support spe-
cialist in the installation division in
Valhalla, N.Y.

Allan G. King

joined Synergy Oil & Gas in
Houston last August as a partner
responsible for corporate finance.

John K. Saunders
has a solo law practice, which con-
tinues strong growth, in Atlanta.

Mark W. Scully

and his wife, leke, and two sons
recently moved to Cologne,
Germany, where he is managing the
property-casualty practice of
Tillinghast, an insurance manage-
ment consulting firm.

Dr. Charles H. Warner
became a partner in Radiology
Associates of Roanoke last year. He
is still running competitively and
finished first in his age group in a
5K race in March with a time of
17:45.

Douglas T. Webd

recently formed Diversified Career
Strategies, a personal career market-
ing and outplacement firm.

OLL

Gene A. Marsh
has been promoted to full professor

at the University of Alabama School
of Law. His wife, Jenelle Mims
Marsh ’81L, is assistant dean of the
school of law. They have two sons,
Nathan and Elliott.

Buckner P. Wellford

was elected to the Shelby County
(Tenn.) Board of Commissioners
last August. He lives in Memphis.

‘82

Dr. Michael P. Bernot

joined a five-man orthopedic
surgery group in 1992 at Piedmont
Hospital in Atlanta. He specializes
in sports medicine and is currently
team physician for the Atlanta
Hawks.

Philip M. Browne

was admitted into the partnership of
Arthur Andersen last September.

He lives in Doylestown, Pa., with
his wife, Kathleen, and their son,
Philip, 1.

’
SI

J. Ambler Cusick

is an investment banker with Alex

Brown & Sons Inc. in Washington,

D.C. He and his wife, Meredith,

live in the northwest section of the

city.

D. Chris Graham

is assistant research director at
Creative Sports Inc., a subsidiary of
ESPN. He lives in Mt. Holly, N.C.,
with his wife, Jodie, and daughter,
Kate.

Stephen K. Greene

has been named a partner in the law
firm of Bradley, Arant, Rose &
White in Birmingham.

’
S4

Robert M. Dees

is a partner in the law firm of Gabel

and Hair in Jacksonville, Fla., and
practices admiralty and media law.

William G. Foster Jr.
was elected executive vice president
of Crestar in Richmond.

Jeffrey W. Knapp

recently accepted a position with
the Portland (Ore.) office of
Bullivant, Houser, Barley,
Pendergrass & Hoffman.

Capt. Edward J. O’Brien

was recently selected for promotion
to major. He has been assigned to
the 10th Mountain Division at Ft.
Drum, N.Y., for the past three years.
During the division’s deployment to
Somalia, he served as an operations
and international law advisor. He
has worked as a prosecutor for the
past two years during the deploy-
ment to Haiti.

47

Hurricane Frank

So I’m on the phone with Frank Billingsley *82—head weather-
man at KPRC-TV in Houston—and I’m on a tight deadline
because I’m leaving for Wrightsville Beach, N.C., the next morn-
ing, and I tell him all this, and
there’s a pause on the other
end. “Looks like lows in the
60s, highs in the 80s,” he says.
“Thunderstorms should be
clearing out by late Saturday.”

Things are off to a good
start, I’m thinking.

Everybody wants to know
the weather. It’s an extremely
important segment of every
local T'V newscast. And Harris
County, Texas, is an area of
weather extremes—from blis-
tering hot to frigid cold, from
droughts to floods, from severe
lightning storms to debilitating
ice storms. And Harris County
is the tornado capital of the United States to boot. “We face every-
thing but snow storms, ” says Billingsley, who this past February
became the No. 1 weatherman at Houston’s NBC affiliate after six
years in the backup spot at crosstown rival KTRK.

By the time he was four years old, watching “I Love Lucy”
reruns in his hometown of Birmingham, Billingsley knew he want-
ed to be on TV. “I chose Washington and Lee because of the rep-
utation of the journalism school and the reputation of the alumni |
knew,” he says. “I wasn’t even sure where it was. I thought I had

Houston weatherman Frank
Billingsley ’82: sunny days.

to go through Kentucky to get there.”

Once he got to Lexington, Billingsley majored in journalism
and philosophy. He worked for the campus radio and TV stations,
did a 30-minute weekly news show (“The Southwest Chronicle” )
for two years, and interned at WDBJ-TV in Roanoke during spring
term his senior year. He graduated cum /aude with honors in phi-
losophy, but no job. When he returned from Europe, WDB]
offered him a post as weekend weatherman, but even then
Billingsley was still somewhat geographically challenged. “I told
them I didn’t even know all 50 states,” he admits, “but they said
they would teach me everything I needed to know.”

After four years with Channel 7, Billingsley went to Biloxi,
Miss., where he worked as the No. 1 weatherman at WLOX. He
became certified as a broadcast meteorologist after 30 hours of
study at Mississippi State and obtained those all-important TV
seals of approval from both the American Meteorological Society
and National Weather Association. In recent years he has flown in
a hurricane surveillance plane, stood in the middle of Hurricane
Andrew in Louisiana, and even done the weather dressed as Elvis
(on what would have been the King’s 60th birthday).

Billingsley dreams of retiring in 15 years at the age of 50, and
maybe even coming back to Lexington to teach journalism. In the
meantime, he attributes the success of any weathercaster to an
honest presentation of a notoriously unpredictable subject. “If
you're a nice person, people will like you,” he says. “You need to
have a sense of credibility, or humor, or likability—I try to have all
three.” He adds quickly: “I’m sure people sense that W&L
charm.” —By Evan Atkins

 

David W. Stevens Jr.

is starting his sixth season as a USFS
smokejumper in Grangeville, Idaho.
He recently returned to his home in
Soolsbyville, Calif., from a two-
week, two tournament rugby tour in
England, where he played 15
matches with six different teams.

O4L

Martin R. Smith Jr.

is a partner in the law firm of
Steptoe & Johnson in Charleston,
W.Va., and is the general litigation
practice group manager.

’
ote)

William A. Maner IV

is a Vice president in investment

banking at Morgan Stanley & Co. in

New York and focuses on clients in

the Southeast.

John A. Winters

has been named publisher of The
Juneau (Alaska) Empire. He has
worked for the Augusta (Ga.)-based
Morris Communications Corp. for
the past 10 years.

OSL

John K. Saunders
See ’81.

’
SO

Troy E. Andrade

has moved to Atlantic Beach, Fla.,

and has joined the Florida depart-

ment of labor and employment

security as an appeals referee decid-

ing unemployment compensation

claims.

Hugh R. Black Il

is a pediatrician doing a pediatric
pulmonary fellowship at the
University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill and has a training grant
from the Cystic Fibrosis
Foundation.

D. Shawn Harvey

is finishing his residency in psychia-
try at Mr. Sinai in New York this
June and is continuing there as a fel-
low in geriatric psychiatry and head
of the electro-convulsive therapy
department.

Christopher J. Komosa
graduated with an MBA from the
University of Virginia in 1993. He
lives in New York.

Dr. Ron L. Moody

is On active duty in the Army as a
captain at Fort Leavenworth, Kan.,
where he serves as chief of the
department of family practice. He
and his wife, Cinda, recently cele-
brated their 10th anniversary and
have three children.

  
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
    
   
  
  
 
   
   
 
   
   
   

Timothy U. Stanford ‘
is a shareholder with the law firm ;
Spear, Downs & Judin in Dallas ar

specializes in trial litigation, |

J. Scott Stockburger
and his wife, Andrea McMillin, live
in Little Rock, Ark., where he
attends the University of Arkansas _
Medical School on a National

Health Service Corps scholarship, —

Edwin J. Villamater
is practicing anesthesiology at Ge
Samaritan Hospital in Baltimore
is also an attending physician ar
University of Maryland Medical
Systems.

OOL

Douglas L. Lawing

has refurbished a fire-damaged
building in downtown Houston and
opened an art gallery. The first
exhibit featured abstract paintings -

=

by Los Angeles artist John Millej, —

.

Robert 1. Stolzman
has been named secretary and gen-
eral counsel to the Rhode Island
Economic Development Corp., tk .
state’s central economic develop- —
ment agency. He continues to prac-
tice law as a partner with Adler
Pollock & Sheehan in Providence. —

’ '

St; 3
James H. Barker Ill
is still practicing law with Latham é
Watkins in Washington, D.C., spe-
cializing in communications.

James C. Foley
is a student in the Ph.D program in
history at the University of Missis- —
sippi. His area of focus is U.S. histo
ry until 1877 with an emphasis on —
the South.

Bruce A. Reed

and his wife, the former Melanie
Scheetz, moved to Bay Village,
Ohio, in April.

 

{
Ke

 
 
   
    
 
 

W. Hildebrandt Surgner Jr.
is finishing up his clerkship with
U.S. District Court Judge Robert R.
Merhige Jr. in Richmond. After the —
judicial clerkship ends, he is joining —
the corporate and banking/finance
group of Hunton & Williams in
Richmond.

Matthew J. Waterbury 3
works in a civilian capacity as a
hydrogeologist for the Army. He
lives in Edgewood, Md.

;

SS ;
Hobart P. (Hobey) Bauhan |
and his wife, Ginna, live in Rich-
mond, where he works for Gov.
George Allen.

 

-

 

perry S. Hayes i
-< an assistant district attorney in
is

shelby County, Tenn.

hen J. Head

rfax, Va., Is “still searching for
f life.”

Step!
of Fairta®:
che meaning ©

E. Lyons
Jha Run, Va., has been award-
eda Fulbright grant to conduct
research on che structure of the '
Turkish educational system and its
ability to provide educational oppor-

munities to women and minorities.

¢. Russell H. Shearer

js an environmental attorney for the
U.S. Department of Energy at the
Savannah River site, where he spe-
cializes in the environmental ramifi-
cations of nuclear weapons produc-
tion. He lives in Aiken, S.C.

‘88L

Phillip H. Buchanan

is director of planned giving and
counsel to the Virginia Tech
Foundation in Blacksburg. He also
has a private practice in Christians-

burg.

‘89

J. Tucker Alford

has left the Atlanta firm of King &
Spaulding to become a principal of
Mid-South Holdings, a company
formed to acquire privately held
firms in the South.

Emily C. Bevill

has completed her first year at the
Fuqua Schoo! of Business at Duke
University and is spending the sum-
mer in New York doing an intern-
ship in equity research at Salomon
Brothers.

lan Bottomley

works in St. Petersburg, Russia, for
the telecommunications operator
PeterStar.

Lee D. Brading
and his wife, Tracy Williams
Brading ’89, recently moved to
Carrboro, N.C., from Atlanta. He is
a first-year MBA student at the
University of North Carolina, and
she works with CRF Rehabilitative
fvices as a speech pathologist.

Barbra A. Byington

8 a financial analyst at the Pension
nefits Guaranty Corp. in

Washington, D.C.

Erin C. Cosby
Works for Sara Lee Hosiery in
Mston-Salem, N.C

Courtney A. Coyle
Passed the California Bar Exam and

IS Work; . : .
orking In environmental law in
Jolla, Calif

Thomas F. Flournoy IV

works in Atlanta for the final phase
of a one-and-a-half year program
with GTE managing new cellular
technology projects.

Julia W. Kirk

is an assistant vice president in the
private banking division at UMB
Bank in Kansas City, Mo.

Alexa A. Salzman

is a municipal analyst with Franklin
Resources in San Francisco. She also
serves on W&L’s Alumni Board of
Directors.

Frank M. Sands Jr.

lives in Houston with his wife,
Jessica, and works as a security ana-
lyst for Fayez Sarofim & Co.

Kevin A. Struthers

graduated last December from the
American University in Washington,
D.C., with a master’s in arts man-
agement. He recently left his job in
the development office of the
national headquarters of National
Public Radio to work in the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts as administrative coordinator
for the development department.

OIL

Robert D. Brickman

works for the Sentara Health
System specializing in Total Quality
Management and organizational
change management. He frequently
sees fellow classmates and lives in
Portsmouth, Va.

Louise DiMatteo Megargee

is an assistant county attorney for
Fairfax, Va., representing child pro-
tective services and the department
of human development.

3
90

James C. Ambrosini

is pursuing a master’s in information
systems technology from Stevens
Institute of Technology and is
working for the Equitable in
Manhattan.

Karsten Amlie

is a communications lawyer in
Miami and recently went skiing
with classmates Helge Hukari and
J.B. Schneider, Erik Bertelson °92,
Rob Caveese ’92, and Andrew
Waters '91.

Michael S. Applebaum

lives in New Orleans, where he is
president of Audubon Films, a com-
mercial film production company.

Fiona Harkess Blocker

is a private banking officer at
National City Bank in Louisville,
Ky.

Thomas A. Brubaker
and his wife, Karen, live in

Lawrenceville, Ga., where he is a
parts and service zone manager with
Ford Motor Co.

Craig B. Davis

graduated from the University of
Richmond School of Law last May
and is now a litigation associate with
Wallace & Harris in Elkins, W.Va.,
and Richmond.

John M. Durant

is a legal administrator at Klinedinst,
Fliehman, McKillop & Jones, a civil
litigation firm, and is pursuing an
MBA in the evenings at the
University of San Diego.

Stewart G. Flippen

lives in Richmond and works at
Trigon Blue Cross Blue Shield as an
underwriter with a territory in
Southwest Virginia. He is also pur-
suing an MBA at Virginia
Commonwealth University.

Charles E. Frankum Jr.
graduated from the University of
‘Tennessee Medical School in June.

Stephen A. George

has lived in Frankfurt, Germany,
since 1992 and works for Sony
Europe International in its Ukraine
department.

Nancy Hickam-Halloran
graduated from the University of
Georgia with a master’s in counsel-
ing psychology last March. She cur-
rently works as associate director of
admissions at Agnes Scott College
and is pursuing a Ph.D in counsel-
ing at the University of Georgia.

Kristen E. Haring
is completing her third year of med-
ical school in Dayton, Ohio.

Eileen Labashinsky Heinrich
is teaching preschool in Buffalo,
N.Y., where she lives with her hus-
band, Alan ’90, and daughters, Kelli
and Shana.

Mark T. Milligan
lives in Baltimore and works for
Price Waterhouse Consulting.

J. Carter Montague

is enjoying his first year at the
Wharton School of Business in
Philadelphia. He co-chaired the first
annual Wharton Welcome Weekend
for admitted students and will co-
chair the dean’s graduate student
advisory council next year.

Timothy R. Place

is a senior high school guidance
counselor and head varsity football
coach at Greene Central High
School and led the team to an 8-1
record last year. The team finished
the season ranked in New York and
set a record for the most amount of
wins in a season. After the 1993-94
school year, he was named teacher
of the year by the student body. He
lives in Oneonta, N.Y.

Patricia A. Sciutto

currently works in training and
development for J.P. Morgan in
New York. She is also pursuing a
master’s in higher education at
Fordham University.

Mary Katherine C. Seymour
is a senior production planner for
Michelin Tire Corp. in Greenville,
S.C,

Courtney Simmons

is clerking for Judge J. Michael
Luttig ’76 of the 4th U.S. Circuit in
Arlington, Va.

Christopher O. Smythe

and his wife, Sarah Conrad Smythe
°91, live in Charlotte, where he is an
attorney with Parker, Poe, Adams &
Bernstein and she works at the Mint
Museum of Art.

Katharine C. Stroh

is an archaeologist for P-III Associ-
ates, a consulting firm conducting
excavations in Utah, Wyoming,
Nevada, and Arizona. She lives in
Salt Lake City, Utah.

Susan S. Swayze

received a Ph.D from the University
of California, Los Angeles Graduate
School of Education in January. She
is now a postdoctoral fellow at the
Educational Testing Service in
Princeton, N.].

Ronald J. Thomas Jr.

lives with Mike Wigert ’92 in
Hermosa Beach, Calif., and is a cam-
era assistant on commercials, music
videos, and movies.

Delia F. (DeeDee) Truett
recently returned from a five-month
sojourn in Niger, West Africa. She
lived in a tiny, two-room mud house
in the village of Yelou and taught
skills in agro-forestry and environ-
mental education.

William W. Tunner
graduated from the University of
Richmond Law School and is
“presently involved in O.].
Simpson’s defense.”

Frederick J. Turpin Jr.
graduated from the Wharton School
of Business with an MBA in May.

Christopher M. Weed

teaches middle school and high
school French in the Buckingham
(Va.) County Schools.

Jill Westphal West

lives in San Clemente, Calif., on
base at Camp Pendleton with her
husband, Thomas, and daughter,
Blair Allison.

Catherine L. Williams

heads the internal operations of the
Latin America sales department of
Holz-Her U.S., a German-owned
woodworking machinery company
in Charlotte. She travelled to

Argentina, Chile, and Colombia last
December to meet with distributors.

Harlan F. Winn Ill

is a law clerk for the Hon. Edwin L.
Nelson, U.S. District Court judge
for the North District of Alabama.
He will join the law firm of Burr &
Forman in Birmingham as an associ-
ate this August.

Nicholas W. Woodfield
graduated from Cumberland School
of Law in May and is clerking for
the Hon. Wayne Thorn in
Birmingham.

OOL,

Timothy A. Hodge

joined the law firm of Tydings &
Rosenberg in Baltimore last January
as an associate.

5

|
Cecily Tynan Badger
was named Best On-Air ‘Talent,
Television at the 1994 Las Vegas
Electronic Media Awards. She is
currently co-anchor and weather-
caster for “Good Morning Las
Vegas” on KT NV, Channel 13, the
ABC affiliate.

Michael W. Danzansky

works for Massachusetts Mutual in
Washington, D.C., doing insurance
and investment planning for busi-
nesses and individuals.

Jennifer A. Elmes

lives in Boulder, Colo., and is store
manager at Concepts, a home fur-
nishing company.

Ann Gregory

has recently moved to Nashville,
Tenn., where she is the statewide
corporate recruiter for NationsBank.
She has also been promoted to assis-
tant vice president.

Eric R. Harlan

graduated magna cum laude from the
University of Baltimore School of
Law and is now clerking for Judge
Joseph Kaplan in the circuit court
for Baltimore city. This fall, he will
join Whiteford, Taylor & Preston as
a litigation associate. He is also try-
ing to start the next generation of
“Soul Kitchen” with John Hunter
93 and Brian Murtagh °93.

Patrick M. Heffernan

joined the State Department as a
Foreign Service officer last October.
He is currently studying Arabic and
is moving to Cairo, Egypt, with his
wife, Maureen, in August.

Cpl. Christopher H. Leiphart
of Camp Lejeune, N.C., is deploy-
ing with the 24th Marine Expedi-

tionary Unit to the Mediterranean

for six months as team leader with
2nd Recon Company.

Patricia Lopes

works in the consulting division of
Arthur Andersen & Co. in
Washington, D.C.

Mark A. Lubkowitz

is currently working on his Ph.D in
microbiology at the University of
‘Tennessee.

Shawn Wert Manson

works as a loan operations manager
for Continental National Bank in El
Paso, Texas. Husband and class-
mate Andrew Manson is in Army’s
3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment, and
was promoted to captain in June.
Next January, the couple will be
reassigned to Ft. Lee, Va.

David H. Martin

is pursuing a master’s in religion at
Yale University and serving on the
board of the Uruguay-U.S. Chamber
of Commerce in New York.

Bernadette Kempton McLaren
earned her medical degree from
Baylor College of Medicine in May.
She has been accepted into the
pathology residency program at the
University of Cincinnati.

Charles A. Meyer Jr.

will graduate from the Stern School
of Business at New York University
in December. He reports that he
sees classmates Mason Pope and
Foster Bowman frequently.

Anna F. Schleunes

is spending the summer in Germany
studying German and will attend
the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill Law School this fall.

Thomas W. Sheppard

teaches history at the Perkiomen
School in Pennsburg, Pa. He is
doing an internship in educational
administration this summer and
talks frequently with classmate
David Bennett.

Ist Lt. John Harley Walsh

is getting out of the Marine Corps in
May and moving to Charlottesville,
Va., with his wife and classmate,
Lindsay. He will attend the Darden
School of Business at the University
of Virginia.

Raymond J. Welder Ill

lives in Beeville, Texas, but often

returns to W&L as he is dating a girl
at Sweet Briar.

Bld

Cary P. Moseley
has joined the Lynchburg (Va.) law
firm of Davidson & Sakolosky.

92

L. Brannon Aden
is completing her third year of med-
ical school at ‘Tulane University in

New Orleans but is undecided as to
her field of specialty.

John T. (Trey) Cox Ill
graduated from UVa law school in
May and is clerking with the Hon.
Jacques L. Wiener Jr. of the U.S.
Court of Appeals, 5th Circuit.

Ashley E. Gray

has finished her second year of med-
ical school at George Washington
School of Medicine in Washington,
D.C.

T. Scott Holstead

enjoyed seeing fellow classmates at
Read Folline’s wedding in Green-
ville, S.C. He lives in Houston.

M. Shane Kimzey

is finishing his first year of law
school and is working for two law
firms this summer in Houston and
Austin.

F. Trent Merchant

is pursuing a master’s in history on a
scholarship at Wake Forest Univer-
sity. He reports that he “continues
to annoy” classmate Larry Pait
Skipper.

Jeff D. O'Brien

graduated from Thunderbird
Business School in Arizona and is
moving to Houston to work as a
financial analyst for Continental
Airlines.

Ellen B. (Ebie) Pearson

works as a genetic counselor for the
University of South Carolina
Medical School in Columbia, S.C.

Hamilton E. (Bo) Russell Ill
graduated from the University of
South Carolina School of Law in
May and is joining the firm of
Haynsworth, Marion, McKay &
Guerard in August.

Thomas C. Snedeker

is a legal assistant in the environ-
mental practice group of Baker &
Hostetler in Washington, D.C. He
co-authored an article titled
“Congress To Rewrite Water
Protection Law” that appeared in
the July 1994 issue of Virginia's
Environment. He lives in Arlington,
Va., with Jonathan Symonds °91 and
Bob Tompkins °90, °94L.

Peer A. Soderberg

is a second-year student at Robert
Wood Johnson Medical School and
lives in Skaneateles, N.Y.

Garnett S. Wilbourn
works for a special events produc-
tion company in Memphis, Tenn.

Hunter H. Williams

moved to New York last November
to work as an art director at The Ad
Store, an eight-person advertising
agency.

93

Brian K. Butcher a
is finishing his second year of meg. _
ical school at MCV in Richmond.
He begins the Ph.D phase of his .
degree this summer and will con. _

duct research on head trauma and
neuro-excitotoxicity,

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  

Adam T. Craddock

has spent the last 18 months in N
York as a compensation specialist
with the management consulting
firm Towers Perrin. He will] attend
the Darden Graduate School of 7
Business at the University of
Virginia this fall.

C. Taylor Crothers II
is living in New York and internine |
with the photography staff at Ro/fine
Stone magazine. His freelance caree
recently took him to Europe on toy
with the Dave Matthews Band. __

Chadwick F. Delp

is finishing his second year as a
financial analyst in the corporate _
finance department of Stephens Ir
in Little Rock, Ark. He will attend
the Wharton School at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania next year to
pursue an MBA. a

William H. Donnelly
spent a year as a trial assistantina —
New York district attorney’s office —
and is now a paralegal for the energ
section of Dickstein, Shapiro &
Morin in Washington, D.C.

Martha C. (Missy) Eppes
is pursuing her master’s in geology
at the New Mexico Institute of
Mining and Technology. She
reports that she is “digging many
large holes in the deserts of the
Southwest.”

Maureen R. Levey a
was awarded one of five journalism —
scholarships by the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs of Finland and will —
be studying the Finns’ health-care
system firsthand this summer. Upe
returning in early September, she
be moving to Washington, D.C.

Scott E. McCoy q
is “glad” that his first year atthe
University of Houston Law Center
is over. He also reports that he sur-
vived the earthquake while visiting
Japan in January and that none of a
his family or friends were injured 1

the explosion in Oklahoma City.

Jeremy D. Meadows
finished his graduate studies at the
University of Kentucky’s Patterson
School of Diplomacy and Inter-
national Commerce last December.
He is now working with West
African National Assembly staffers
at the National Conference of State
Legislatures.

 

”

rather E. Rhodes
recently transferred to Sydney,
australia, and was promoted to the
sition of software implementation
manage! for the Pacific Rim with
he CBORD Group, a firm that pro-
vides clinical and food production
ware CO various industries in the

fi
Saited States, Canada, Europe, and

Jason F. Robinson

is pursuing a master s in govern-
ment at the University of Virginia
and is serving as chairman of the
school’s honor committee.
Stephanie L. Sauers

is pursuing a master's In secondary
school science education at
Teachers College, Columbia
University. She lives in New York
and has been a student teacher in
Harlem since February.

Paul J. (P.J.) Waicus Jr.

is an associate producer and sponsor/
development representative for
CME Information Services Inc. in
Mount Laurel, N.J.

O3L,

Robert J. Palladino

spent the last year in Seoul, South
Korea, practicing law for the Army.
He kept busy by exploring Asia and
teaching government for Central
Texas College. He is moving to
Italy to practice law in Vicenza.

94
Gayle L. Baynham
is a staff accountant for Medical

Rehabilitation Centers Inc. in
Lexington, Ky.

W. Andrew Bowen

is working as a staff member for
Rep. Mac Collins in Washington,
D.C. He is starting law school at
Mercer University this fall.

R. Allen Flickinger
has joined the tax division of Arthur
Andersen in Pittsburgh.

Stephanie M. Harbaugh

's an actuary at the Segal Co. in
Washington, D.C. She lives with
classmate Krista Taurins, who works
for the Center for Strategic and
International Studies.

Kimberly M. Hardie
fecently returned from a “fantastic”
Weekend in New York, where she
‘Pent time with classmates Meghan
all, Liza Tobias, Heidi Traulsen,
Male Ydel, and Pauline Mita. She
Ves in Bethesda, Md.. and is trying
£0 €arn vacation days at Earle
4mer Brown advertising agency.

Heather M. Leonard

tea
Ches Computer science and alge-

b
on get Pope John XXIII High School
" Sparta, N,J.

el

Katherine E. Townley

is an accountant with the High
Museum of Art in Atlanta and lives
with classmate Binky Parkins.

Eric R. Young

is pursuing a graduate degree in eco-
nomics at Southern Methodist
University.

W. Justin Youngblood

is teaching math and chemistry in a
secondary school in Swaziland,
Africa, as a member of the Peace
Corps.

GAL,

Jeffery A. Kruse

joined the law firm of Shook, Hardy
& Bacon in Kansas City, Mo., as an
associate in the litigation division.

W. Hildebrandt Surgner Jr.
See °87.

Marriages

Louis A. LeLaurin III °75

to Susan L. Flaggert, on March 21,
1995. The couple lives in San
Antonio, Texas.

Peter H. Benda ’81

to Robin A. Merwin, on Feb. 18,
1995, in St. Croix, Virgin Islands.
The groom is a manager at A.T.
Kearney Inc., a global general man-
agement consulting firm, in
Chicago.

Stephen C. Hartigan ’85

to Carmen U. Pagano, on July 16,
1994, in Washington, D.C. Hartigan
is a second vice president in corpo-
rate finance at Chase Manhattan
Bank in New York.

Mary Madigan ’85L

to Kevin Cassidy, on Aug. 27, 1994,
in Georgetown. Madigan is a senior
litigation associate in the Washing-
ton (D.C.) law firm of Collier,
Shannon, Rill & Scott, and the
couple lives in Oakton, Va., with
emeritus law dog “Red” Madigan.

Jeffrey J. Giguere ’85L

to Constance L. Feely, on Aug. 20,
1994. The couple lives in Provi-
dence, R.I., where Giguere is assis-
tant general counsel at A. T. Cross.

Alexander A. Chambers °87

to Melissa Long, on Aug. 20, 1994.
The couple lives in Atlanta, where
Chambers is an associate in the real
estate section of King & Spalding.

Patricia Malesardi ’89L

to George Evanko, on July 30, 1994.
Malesardi is a senior attorney at the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
in Arlington, Va. The couple lives in
Fredericksburg.

R. Stephen Flagler '89

to Christy Kellett, on March 25,
1995, in Jacksonville, Fla. Class-
mates Doug Bracken, Chris Casey,
Charles Doumar, Tom Flournoy,
Bill Housemartin, William Thorn-
ton, and Steve Zahn were in the
wedding party. The couple lives in
Savannah, Ga.

Elizabeth Miles °89

to Ted Mitzlaff, on Nov. 12, 1994.
The couple lives in Louisville, Ky.,
where Miles is a physical therapist at
Frazier Rehab specializing in ortho-
pedics.

Laura Hoopes 89

to Keith G. Nilsen, on March 30,
1994, in Wilmington, Del. The cou-
ple lives in Chadds Ford, Pa.

Capt. R. Scott Quagliata ’89
to Suzanne Sneed ’92,

on April 29, 1995, in Lee Chapel.
The wedding party included class-
mates Pete Petino ’89, Kelly
McCabe 92, and Tracey Thorn-
blade 92. The couple lives in
Lawton, Okla., where he is an offi-
cer in the Field Artillery, U.S. Army
and she works for International
Technology Inc., an environmental
remediation firm.

Stuart H. Sheldon ’89

to Karen E. Chesson, on Sept. 3,
1994, in Durham, N.C. The couple
lives in Atlanta, where he is oversee-
ing Coca-Cola’s Olympics account
for Lang & Associates.

Andrew S. Baur ’90

to Jennifer Lindsey, on Jan. 28,
1995, in Little Rock, Ark. The cou-
ple lives in St. Louis, where Baur is
a vice president of Southwest Bank
of St. Louis.

Reid T. Campbell ’90

to Suzanne Cullen, on Nov. 26,
1994, in New Canaan, Conn. The
couple lives in Hanover, N.H.
Campbell was recently promoted to
director of finance and accounting
for Fund American Enterprises
Holdings in Norwich, Vt.

Robert E. Martin °90

to Heather Owen, on July 30, 1994.
Classmates John Durant, Scott
Jackson, J. Wayne Burris, and Chris
Acebol ’91 were in the wedding
party. The couple lives in Richmond.

Anne Aitken °90 to Robert W.
Pritchard 93, °95L, on May 15,
1994. Andy Scherffel °93, Phil
Nichols ’95L, and Curt Euler °95L
were the groom’s attendants. The
couple lives in Lexington, Va.

Michael P. Badger ’91 to
Cecily J. Tynan °91,

on April 22, 1995, in Lee Chapel.
Classmates Melinda Conkling and
L. Scott Alrutz and Erin Walsh °93
were members of the wedding party.
The couple lives in Las Vegas, Nev.

J. Brent Boland ’91

to Elizabeth V. Skelton, on Nov. 19,
1994, in Louisville, Ky. Classmates
Bruce Taylor, Allen Ferguson, Mark
Monohan, and Andy Guida were
groomsmen. The groom works for
HFH Commercial Properties, a cor-
porate real estate firm.

Joseph S. Canterbury °91

to Christine S. Flint, on Oct. 14,
1994, in Hluboka, Czech Republic.
The couple lives in Dallas.

Allan N. Crawford III °91

to Gretchen Loree, on Nov. 19,
1994, at St. Mary’s Episcopal
Church, in Richmond. The Rev.
John Miller ’70 officiated, and the
wedding party included classmates
Trevor Horne, Alan Pearce, and
Thomas Douglass Jr., and the
groom’s father, A. Neil Crawford Jr.
63. The couple lives in Atlanta.

Steven D. Erwin °91

to Karen Tesch, on Jan. 14, 1995.
Classmate Bill Gottwals served as a
groomsman. The couple lives in
Houston.

Erik K. Jones °91

to Kristin Penley, on Oct. 15, 1994,
in Hudson, Ohio. The wedding
party included classmate Paul
Matuch, Mike Wigert ’92, and
Broderick Grady °92. The couple
lives in Portland, Ore., where Jones
works for the Oregon Symphony
Association.

Katherine L. Kreutziger °91
to Lt. Jeffrey A. Baumgarter, on
April 2, 1994. She graduates from
Louisiana State University Medical
School in May.

Christian E. Dysart °92

to Millie Maxwell, on Feb. 18, 1995,
in Goldsboro, N.C. Classmate Jeff
Kreis was best man, and classmates
John Kannapell, Brad Thoburn,
Pete Klingelhofer, and Jeff Moore
were members of the wedding
party. The couple lives in Raleigh,
where Dysart teaches history and
coaches basketball at the St.
‘Timothy’s/Hale School.

M. Hill Goodspeed °92

to Maria Ray, on Aug. 6, 1994, in
Pensacola, Fla. Classmates Alex
Claypool and Don Stier were in the
wedding party. The groom works as
the historian at the National
Museum of Naval Aviation in
Pensacola.

Joseph M. Ciccone °93L

to Mary A. Stilts ’94L,

on March 4, 1995, in Uniontown,
Ohio. The couple lives in Somerset,
N,]J.

Christine Gorman °93

to Andrew Sherman, on Dec. 31,
1994, in Chapel Hill, N.C. Class-
mates Kristen Brown, Andrea
Cardamone, and Kathy Mekjian

51

The War Years

“We need people more concerned with the quality of their goals than
with the quantity of their goods.” —Lyndon Johnson

Upon reading that quotation in a book recently, | immedi-
ately thought of the gentlemen who recently celebrated their
golden anniversary reunion, the great Class of 1945, and of the
effort that the Classes of 1944 to 1948—those directly affected
by World War Il—are mounting in loving memory of their
classmates who died during that monstrous conflict.

When Roger Mudd ’50 addressed those assembled in
Lexington for the reunion weekend festivities he observed
that on a percentage basis, more W&L men lost their lives dur-
ing the war than those from any other college in the country.
‘That is a numbing statistic, particularly when one reflects upon
our unique heritage and upon the legacy we proudly claim
from our two namesake generals. ‘The recitation in Lee Chapel
of the names of the fallen members of the Class of 1945 was an
emotional experience not only for me, but most especially for
the friends who gathered 50 years later to celebrate and to pay
homage.

The sacrifice of those young men represented the ultimate
gift of self. They had scant opportunity to enjoy the spiritual or
material blessings that life has to offer. However, unlike much
of what we see through the media today—people adrift, casting
to and fro, uncertain of their role in life—these W&L gentle-
men knew what they were fighting for.

‘They knew that some values such as honor, integrity, civili-
ty—quintessential Washington and Lee values—had to be pre-
served at all costs, even the cost of one’s life. Every single one
of us today prospers as a result of their loyalty and devotion.
Every generation of students that will ever traverse the
Colonnade owes the World War II generation an incomparable
debt of gratitude.

Homecoming 1995 will serve as the focus for a grand com-
memoration of the war years at W&L, and my colleagues in the
Alumni Office have planned a host of wonderful events we
hope will entertain as well as enlighten. An integral part of that
celebration is the gift the surviving members of the war years
classes will present—a remarkably strengthened World War II
The classes of 1944 to
wills to

Memorial Scholarship Endowment.
1948 are placing special bequests in their respective
honor friends whose own “last will and testament” represented
a legacy we shall always enjoy.

By providing opportunities for young men and women in
the years ahead to participate in the great Washington and Lee
experience these survivors leave their own legacy of love and
commitment. Their financial sacrifice in service to an especial-
ly noble goal marks them in my mind as just the kind of men
to whom Lyndon Johnson was referring.

David R. Long
Associate Vice President of Development

were bridesmaids. ‘The couple lives
in Chapel Hill, where Gorman just
finished her second year of medical
school at the University of North
Carolina.

Births

Mr. @ Mrs. Douglas M.
Thomas ’74, ’77L, ason,
William Charles, on June 18, 1994.
‘The family lives in West Hartford,
Conn.

Mr. @ Mrs. John M. Zamioski
°74, a daughter, Joanna Beryl, on
Nov. 25, 1994. The family lives in
Huntington, N.Y. Zamioski recently
joined Promotion Development
Group Inc. in New York.

Mr. © Mrs. Richard K.
Amrhine ’75, ason, Michael
Kenneth, on Feb. 6, 1995. The fam-
ily lives in Spotsylvania, Va.

Mr. © Mrs. Walter S.
Robertson III ’76, ason, Robert
McLeod Woods, on March 25, 1994.
The family lives in Richmond.

Mr. © Mrs. Bayard J. (Barry)
Snyder °76L, a daughter,
Margaret Isabel, on Aug. 17, 1994.
The family lives in Wilmington,
Del., where Snyder is president of
Snyder & Associates.

Mr. @ Mrs. Cecil E. Carder
Jr. °78, ason, Robert Han, on
Aug. 15, 1994, in Houston. He joins
a brother, Jeffrey Lee. The family
lives in Bangkok, ‘Thailand.

Mr. © Mrs. David E. Tyson
°79, a daughter, ‘Treva Hunter, on
June 7, 1994. ‘Tyson is president of
Tyson Contractors Inc., a residential
and light commercial construction
firm doing business in Raleigh,
Durham, and Chapel Hill, N.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Martin F. Bowers
*80, a daughter, Brittany Christine,
on Sept. 12, 1994. She joins two
brothers, Alexander and Peter. The
family lives in Strafford, Pa. Bowers
works in Bryn Mawr as an invest- -
ment executive with Legg Mason.

Mr. © Mrs. William W.
Paxton ’80, ason, Walker
Pettyjohn, on April 7, 1995. The
family lives in Lexington, Va.
Paxton is assistant director of devel-
opment at Washington and Lee.

Rev. © Mrs. Keith E. Goretzka
*83, ason, Edward Raines, on
March 22, 1995. The family lives in
Cockeysville, Md.

Dr. @ Mrs. James F. Londrey
"83, a daughter, Ann Temple,on

 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
    
   
    
  
    
    
 
 
   
 
   

March 23, 1995. The family lives i,
Richmond.

4

Mr. © Mrs. Robert R. Smith
Jr. ’83, ason, Robert III, on
9, 1994. ‘The family lives in Ho

Dr. © Mrs. Warren L. Snea ;
Jr. 83, a daughter, Catherine
Elizabeth, on Oct. 14, 1994. The
family lives in Richmond, where |

Snead is a pediatrician.

Mr. © Mrs. 8. Bradford
Vaughan '83, a daughter, § helby
Taylor, on March 31, 1995. She ic
a brother, Griffin Brooks. The fam;
ly recently moved to Bainbridge _
Island, Wash.

if
Mr. © Mrs. Peter Cronin ’8 ,
a daughter, Erin Kathleen, on Jur 4
29, 1995. The family lives in Croze
Va. Cronin is director of the Annua
Fund at Washington and Lee. __

Mr. © Mrs. Edwin D.
Vaughan III ’84, a daughter, —

Virginia Sutton, on Dec. 5, 1994,
The family lives in Wilmington, _
Del. Vaughan works for Francise
Health System in Aston, Pa.

Mr. © Mrs. J. Matthew
Anthony ’85, ’90L, ason, Le t
Radford, on Feb. 7, 1995. He joins
brother, James Matthew Jr. The _
family lives in Atlanta.

Mr. @ Mrs. J. Patrick
O’Connell Jr. ’85, ason,].
Patrick III, on June 19, 1995. He —
joins a sister, Abigail Scott. The _
family lives in Frederick, Md.

Mary Beth Powell van der Ze
’85L and her husband, Edo, a son,
Pieter Gunter, on March 10, 1995.

The family lives in Atlantic Beast
Fla.

Mr. @ Mrs. J. MacGregor
Wheeler ’86, a daughter, Hannah
Wright, on Aug. 14, 1994. The fam

ly lives in Grosse Point Farms,
Mich., where he has been promoted
to tournament director of the Ford |
Senior Players Championship to be
held in July. ‘

Mr. @ Mrs. C. J. Steuart
Thomas III ’86L, a daughter,
Marie Babington, on Oct. 20, 1994.
She joins two sisters, Ann Marshall |
and Susan, and a brother, Colin.
The family lives in Staunton, Va. —

Mr. © Mrs. William J.
Vailliencourt Jr. ’86L, ason,
Andrew William Fenton, on Feb. —
22, 1995. The family lives in
Lathrup Village, Mich.

Mr. © Mrs. Cooper C.
Crawford ’87, ason, Cooper 4
on April 21, 1995. The family lives —
in Florence, S.C.

,

yr. © Mrs. Christopher M.
cherlock ‘87, ason, Christopher
Ir on July 25, 1994. Sherlock is vice
vesident of financial operations
rh W.J. Jones Administrative
Gervices. The family lives in New
Rochelle, N.Y.
Robert M. Drake ’88 @ Julie
cgowdon Drake 89, a daughter,
Elizabeth Latimer, on April 6, 1995.
The family lives in Winston-Salem,
N.C.
Julie Salerno Taylor ’89 ©@
Rowan G.P. Taylor ’89,
q daughter, O'Callahan Rebecca
(Callie), on Nov. 22, 1994. The fam-
‘ly lives in New Canaan, Conn. He
< an associate with the Clipper
Group, the merchant banking affili-
ate of CS First Boston in New York.

Mr. @ Mrs. Christopher G.
Padden °90, cwins, Michael John
and Nicholas Gregory, on Nov. 18,
1994. They join a sister, Sara
Alexandra. The family lives in
Ashburn, Va., where Padden works
for Nations Bank.

Rebecca Reynolds Simulcik °90
and her husband, Stephen, a daugh-
rer, Paige Nicole, on Feb. 7. 1995.
She joins a sister, Emma Elizabeth.
The family lives in Woodford, Va.

Jennifer Kenyon O’Quinn °91
and her husband, James, a son,
James Lawton, on Jan. 21, 1995. He
joins two brothers, Will and Collin.
The family lives in Athens, Ga.

Mr. © Mrs. Douglas A. Pettit
'92L, a daughter, Kathryn Marie,
on April 28, 1995. The family lives
in San Diego.

Conshetta D. Brown ’94,

a daughter, Kayla Marie, on Jan. 31,
1995. The family lives in Utica,
Miss., and she works for Southern
Farm Bureau Life Insurance Co. in
Jackson.

In Memoriam

Dr. Thomas L. Harris "27,
fetired pediatrician, died Dec. 21,
1994, in Los Angeles. He was a
member of Phi Kappa Sigma frater-
mity at W&L. In 1931, he earned his
medical degree from Vanderbilt
Miversity. During World War II, he
*erved in the Navy in the South

I

’acific and European theatres.
J. Presto
cured Professor. died Feb. 4, 1995,
r Charlottes, ille, Va. He was Phi
Kappes eP and a member of Phi
»igma fraternity at W&L. He
“aed his
1930 from
Ctorate i

Hl Moore "27,

Master's in history in
Harvard | niversity and
n 1942 from Northwest-

ern University. He served in the
Navy in London during World War
II. He taught at W&L, The Citadel,
and for 26 years at Louisiana State
University. He was the author of
four books on Spanish colonial his-
tory, including Revo/t in Louisiana,
which won the Kemper Williams
Prize in Louisiana history.

William G. Sargent °29,

retired businessman, died Aug. 13,
1994. He was a member of Pi Kappa
Phi fraternity at W&L. He was
retired for ten years as owner and
president of STETS Co., manu-
facturers of power plant equipment
in Flushing, N.Y.

William E. Rogers °30,

retired mortgage investor, died Dec.
3, 1994, in Boca Raton, Fla. He was
a member of Sigma Nu fraternity at
W&L. He was last president of
Rogers & Co.

Winfield B. Donham °33

died Feb. 15, 1995. He was a mem-
ber of the golf and track teams and
Phi Gamma Delta fraternity at
W&L. He served in the Army dur-
ing World War II. He was last per-
sonnel manager for Becton Dickin-
son & Co. and lived in Sun City,
Ariz., at the time of his death.

Edward P. Mincher ’35L,
retired attorney, died Nov. 2, 1994,
in Nokomis, Fla. He retired in 1972
from his practice of law as revisor of
statutes for the state of New Jersey
and general counsel for the New
Jersey Medical Society.

Stanley Barrows °37,

educator, died Jan. 31, 1995, in
Naples, Fla. He served in the Army
during World War II. From 1946 to
1968, he taught the history of interi-
or design from the 17th to the 20th
centuries at Parsons School of
Design in Manhattan. He became
chairman of the interior design
department at the Fashion Institute
of ‘Technology in Manhattan in 1968
and continued in that capacity until
1985. He was also a contributing
writer for Architectural Digest and was
awarded an honorary doctorate of
fine arts at the New School for
Social Research.

Joseph 8. Haselden °38,
businessman, died Jan. 20, 1995, in
Jacksonville, Fla. He was a member
of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity at
W&L. He was owner and manager
of Family Carpets Inc., a retail floor
covering store.

Wilfred Julius Ritz ’38,
professor of law at Washington and
Lee for 32 years, died June 18, 1995,
in Lexington, Va. A native of Conk-
lin, Mich., Ritz received his LL.B.
from the T.C. Williams School of
Law at the University of Richmond
and his LL.M. from the Harvard
Law School in 1952. He also earned

 

 

 

 

WS&L AND WORLD WAR II:
A SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY

October 5-7

FIVE-STAR GENERALS’ REUNION
Cluster Reunion for the Undergraduate © Law Classes of
1944, 1945, 1946, 1947, 1948 © 1992, 1993, 1994, © 1995

‘THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5

8:30 P.M.: OPENING REUNION ASSEMBLY
9:00 P.M.: WELCOMING RECEPTION
Keynote Speaker: Charles R. McDowell Jr. ’48

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6

10:00 A.M.: REUNION SEMINARS

12 NOON: LUNCHEON

2:30 P.M.: REUNION SEMINARS

4:30 p.M.: VMI DREss PARADE

With WEL Veterans as the Reviewing Team

6:30 P.M.: RECEPTION for the Faculty and Classes of ’92,°93, 94 @°95
honoring the 1995 Homecoming Court

6:30 P.M: WAR YEARS BANQUET

A Moonlight Serenade: A Fancy Dress of the Swing Era. Cocktails,
dinner, and dancing with the famous Glenn Miller Orchestra!

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7

10:00 A.M.: ALUMNI ASSEMBLY AND

WORLD WAR II MEMORIAL SERVICE

11:30 A.M.: THE 1995 HOMECOMING PARADE

12 NOON: ALUMNI LUNCHEON

Entertainment by the Jim Caldwell Band

2:00 P.M.: FOOTBALL—GENERALS Vs. DAVIDSON

Crowning of 1995 Homecoming Queen and special halftime show
4:30 P.M.: VICTORY CELEBRATION

FOR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACT:
‘THE WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI OFFICE (540) 463-8464

53

the S.J.D. degree from Harvard in
1961. During World War II, Ritz
served in the Army Air Corps. After
teaching law at Wake Forest
College for one year, he joined the
law faculty at Washington and Lee
in 1953 where he taught until his
retirement in 1985. He was a mem-
ber of the national honor society Phi
Beta Kappa and the Order of the
Coif, a law honor society. At W&L,
he taught subjects including crimi-
nal law and American legal history,
was faculty editor of the Law Review,
and directed the school of law’s
Alderson Legal Assistance Program
from its inception in 1970. In 1985,
the law school established a fund in
honor of Ritz to provide an annual
cash award to the best student par-
ticipant in the Alderson program.
Ritz was the author of a 1983 book
on Virginia automobile liability
insurance as well as The Uniform
Commercial Code and the Commercial
Law of Virginia and numerous law
review articles. American Judicial
Proceedings First Printed Before 1801
(1984), which he compiled and edit-
ed, won the Joseph L. Andrew
Bibliographical Award from the
American Association of Law
Librarians. In 1990, the University
of Oklahoma Press published his
Rewriting the History of the Judiciary
Act of 1789, a fundamental reconsid-
eration of one of the statute by

Randolph M. Duncan '39,
retired finance manager, died March
20, 1995, in Owensboro, Ky. He was
a member of the Ca/yx staff, the ten-
nis team, and Beta Theta Pi frater-
nity at W&L. He was last manager
of finance for General Electric in
Owensboro.

The Rt. Rev. Christoph Keller
Jr. ’39, retired bishop of the
Episcopal Diocese of Arkansas and
emeritus trustee of Washington and
Lee, died May 19, 1995, in Alexan-
dria, Va. A native of Bay City, Mich.,
Keller was a lieutenant colonel in
the Marines during World War II.
He left the Murphy Oil Corp. in
1955 to study for the Episcopal
priesthood and was ordained in 1957
in Harrison, Ark., and assigned as
vicar to three mission churches. In
1962, he became rector of St.
Andrew’s Episcopal Church in
Jackson, Miss., and dean of the state
diocese four years later. He was
elected bishop coadjutor of the
Arkansas diocese in 1967 and dioce-
san bishop in 1970. After retiring, he
was president of the Episcopal
Church Building Fund and a layman
on the Bishop’s Council of the
Episcopal Diocese in Louisiana and
Arkansas. Keller served on the
Board of Trustees at W&L from
1981 to 1986, and is an honored

John B. Cleveland °40

died March 9, 1995, in Spartanburg,
S.C. He was a member of the Glee
Club, Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Delta
Phi, and Kappa Alpha Order at
W&L. During World War II, he
served in the Marines and attained
the rank of second lieutenant.

Dr. John G. McCown °40,
retired physician, died June 6, 1994,
in Roanoke. He received his med-
ical degree in 1943 from the Medical
College of Virginia and served as a
physician with the Army Medical
Corps as a captain in Germany for
16 months following World War II.
He began his medical practice in
Roanoke in 1947 and was city physi-
cian for Roanoke for 35 years and
physician for the juvenile detention
home for 20 years. In 1960, he start-
ed Woodhaven Nursing Home,
which he served as medical director
and president until 1990.

Earl E. (Gene) Chamness 41,
former poultry farmer and retired
administrative associate from First
Presbyterian Church in Charleston,
W.Va., died March 20, 1994, in
Charleston. He served in the Navy

  

William C. Breckinridge GIL
attorney, died June 18,1994, jn
Salem, Va. He was a member of Phi
Kappa Sigma fraternity at W&L
During World War II, he served in
the Army Air Corps and rose to the
rank of major. He practiced law in
Fincastle, Va., after the war and
later served under Robert Kenneq
in the U.S. Attorney’s office for the
Western District of Virginia.

Dr. R. Chadwick Johnson "43
retired physician, died Feb. 18,
1995. He received a medical degree
from Yale University in 1945 and
served in the Naval Medical Co

in the Washington (D.C.) Medica}
Dispensary during World War II.
After his discharge, Johnson com-
pleted a residency in internal medi-
cine at the University of Virginia,
He practiced medicine in Alva,
Okla., until his retirement last year,

John C. (Jack) Hempel Jr.

'44, retired businessman, died Oct.
21, 1994, in Bradenton, Fla. He was
a member of Delta Tau Delta at
W&L. He served in the Army Air
Corps during World War II. He
received his bachelor’s degree in

during World War II. 1946 from Northwestern University.

He went on to become president of
S.B. Foot International and vice
president of sales and marketing for
S.B. Foot Tanning Co. in Red

Alexander Simpson Jr. °41,
retired travel agent, died Dec. 14,
1994, in Ormond Beach, Fla. He
was a member of Phi Kappa Psi fra-

 

which the first Congress established benefactor of the University, with ternity at W&L. He served in the Wing, Minn.
the national judicial system. gifts in excess of $1 million. Army during World War II.
Wi hos ROR eer ee) 6 N Per een 0g) LL bea ;

 

Armchairs

 

 

Black lacquer
or

Dark pine $250

 

 

(} BOSTON ROCKER

 

Pas Ri oh
Se oe ee os on A

ARMCHAIR
Black lacquer with
cherry arms or

Dark pine $250

The Boston Rocker requires some assembly.
Make check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Prices
include freight charges. Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery.

and Rockers

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-
rubbed in black lacquer or dark pine stain. The five-color
crest of the University is painted on the back of each chair or
rocker. They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture and
are welcome gifts for birthdays, graduation, Christmas,
anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham °14.

Order by phone or fax! Credit card orders may be placed by
calling (703) 463-8464 or by faxing this form to the W&L
Alumni Office at (703) 463-8473. Or mail your order to:
Washington and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA 24450.

ORDERED BY

 

SHIP TO

 

STREET ADDRESS
City/STATE/ZIP
DAYTIME PHONE
C) VISA (1) CHECK

CARD NUMBER/EXPIRATION DATE

METHOD OF PAYMENT [) MASTERCARD

NAME AS IT APPEARS ON CARD

 

G. Brown °49,

Reed businessman, died March 4,
1995. in Boca Raton, Fla. He was a
member of Kappa Sigma fraternity

W&L and was named a distin-
F ‘shed alumnus in 1985. He served
- Marines during World War II
Es received a purple heart for
nds he suffered at the Battle of
jwo Jima. He was founder and chief
executive of Universal Resource
Corp. of Dallas and Oklahoma City.

william N. Clements IT '50,
businessman and trustee of Wash-
ington and Lee, died June 6, 1995,
in Baltimore. He was president and
chief executive of Summers Fuel
Inc. During his senior year at W&L,
Clements was the first-string goalie
on the All-American lacrosse team
and winner of the Kelly Award as
the best goalie in college lacrosse, a
feat duplicated 30 years later by his
son, Robert ’80. A member of the
Board of Trustees since 1992, he
was a past president of the Alumni
Association and member of the
Baltimore alumni chapter board.
Clements was also president of the
board of St. Paul’s School.

f

William E. Cosgrove Jr. ’51,
retired transportation supervisor,
died Feb. 26, 1995, in Middletown,
Conn. He served in the Marines
during World War II. He worked for
the Middletown division of the state
department of transportation before
his retirement in 1978.

Dr. Elisha W. Winfrey IIl1

'52, surgeon, died Dec. 25, 1994, in
Newport News, Va. He received his
bachelor’s and medical degrees from
the University of Virginia and

served in the Navy from 1956 to
1959. In 1965, Winfrey became the
first board certified cardiovascular
and thoracic surgeon on the Va.
Peninsula. He was a contributing
author of Surgical Diseases of the Chest.

William C. Beatty ’52L,
attorney, died Sept. 11, 1994, in
Huntington, W.Va. He was editor of
the Law Review at W&L. During
World War II, he served in the Army
Air Corps. Beatty was former presi-
dent of the W.Va. State Bar and the
W.Va. Bar Association and was a
Partner with the firm of Huddleston,
Bolen, Beatty and Copen.

HM. Richard Kauffman ’52L,
attorney, died March 19, 1995, in
Wooster, Ohio. He was a member of
Phi Alpha Delta at W&L. He served
in the Navy during World War II.
© Was senior partner of Kauffman,
thardt & Buytendyk.

Robert L. Banse ’53L,
rmer senior vice president and
— pent of Merck & Co. and
~ ios nnetoe and Lee, died
. 95, in Lawrenceville, N,J.
tned a B.S. in economics

 

from the Wharton School of the
University of Pennsylvania. He
joined Merck in 1955 and was the
company’s chief legal officer from
1975 until retiring in 1992. That
same year, Banse was elected to the
Board of Trustees. He was also a
class agent for the Annual Fund.

Guy P. Metcalfe Jr. ’55,
retired businessman, died Feb. 14,
1995. He was a member of Phi
Delta Theta fraternity at W&L. He
was former president and owner of
Metcalfe & Co. in Louisville, Ky.

Robert E. McGuire ’62L,
attorney, died April 9, 1994, in
Montvale, N.J. He was Montvale
borough attorney for 28 years, plan-
ning board attorney in Montvale and
Mahwah, and a private practitioner
in Westwood.

William B. Lowry Jr. ’63,
vicar in the Episcopal Church, died
Jan. 20, 1995. He was a columnist
for the Ring-tum Phi and on the edi-
torial staff of Shenandoah at W&L.
He earned his bachelor of divinity
from Virginia Theological Seminary
in 1966. He lived in Baltimore.

William J. Bridges IIl ’67,
businessman, died Jan. 5, 1995. He
was a member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon fraternity at W&L. He
served in the Adjutant General’s
Corp during Vietnam. He was presi-
dent of Great Bay Group, a paper
brokerage in Monkton, Md.

Alan Kalev Harrick ’92,
filmmaker, died May 21, 1995, near
Truckee, Calif. A native of Palo
Alto, he was captain of the water
polo team at W&L and led the team
té6 an ODAC championship his
senior year. In May he completed a
master’s degree in fine arts, special-
izing in film, from the California
College of Arts and Crafts in
Oakland. His senior project, a film
titled Extreme Maggotry, will be
shown at a festival in San Francisco.

Faculty

Robert Stewart,

professor of music emeritus, died
June 27, 1995, in Lexington, Va. He
was 77. (See The Colonnade, page 7.)

Friend

Anne H.S. Zeigler,

secretary at the school of commerce
for the past 25 years, died May 1,
1995, in Lexington, Va. She was 63.
Prior to coming to W&L, the
Lexington native was secretary for
the Lexington chief of police and a
police dispatcher.

 

Gary Fallon: 1939-1995

Washington and Lee head football coach Gary Robert Fallon

died April 29 at his home 1n Lexington of an apparent heart attack.
He was 56. Fallon had served as associate professor of physical
education and head football coach at W&L since 1978. More than
600 friends packed Lee Chapel on May 3 for a memorial service

1g the University s all-time winningest football coach.

honor

\ native of Watertown, N.Y., Fallon graduated from Syracuse
University in 1962 and starred in football, wrestling, and lacrosse
tor the Orangemen. He played on Syracuse’s 1959 national cham-
pionship football team and earned All-East honors in 1961 as a
starter in the same backfield with Heisman Trophy winner Ernie
Davis. He served as lacrosse team captain in 1962 and played in
the North-South All-Star Game.

\fter graduation, Fallon had a brief professional football career

|

playing with the Minnesota Vikings, Hamilton Tiger Cats, and

‘Toronto Argonauts. He received his master’s degree from
Svracuse in 196/ and began his college coaching career at Ithaca
College in 1970. He joined the staff at Princeton University prior

to the 1972 season and worked there for SIX Vear°s before coming to
Washington and Lee.

Fallon guided the Generals to a record of 6-4 in his third sea-
son, the school’s first winning season in more than a decade. The
following vear, he coached W&L to the school’s first conference
championship in nearly 20 years. Fallon added a second confer-
ence title in 1985 and was named Old Dominion Athletic
Conference coach of the year in 1981, 1988, and 1992. Fallon, who
saw active duty with the Marine Corps, served on a variety of com-
mittees for the American Football Coaches Association.

Former W&L captain John Surface ’94, the third of three
brothers to play for Fallon at W&L, said: “Obviously, it’s tough to
put into words what he meant not only to my family, but to the
W&L community as a

him is his passion. He was the best motivator because he cared so

whole. [The thing I remember most about

much about the players and the game. There wasn’t an ounce of
falseness or untruth in him.”

Memorial donations can be made to the Gary Fallon Memorial
Scholarship Fund, c/o Washington and Lee University Develop-

ment Office, Lexington. VA 24450.

55

Photo: Arne Kuhimann ‘98

Golf & Gustav

A round of goodbyes for John and Anne Wilson

If John Delane Wilson were a rock
star, or even an aging crooner like Frank
Sinatra, the last days of his presidency
could be described as a farewell tour.
For many, it would be the last time to
hear the eloquent Wilson prose, or the
final time to celebrate his significant
achievements as the 21st president of
Washington and Lee. The difference is,
though, he never left Lexington (unless
you count one brief trip to Amsterdam,
but more on that later).

The celebration of John and Anne
Wilson’s retirement from W&L began
in late April with a dinner put together
by his closest colleagues at the Lenfest
Center for the Performing Arts. After
being serenaded with Broadway tunes
from Cats and My Fair Lady, the Wilsons
were presented with a stereo system,
complete with turntable for those old
vinyl records, for their new home in
Blacksburg, Va. A self-professed “tech-
no-dolt,” Wilson wondered if he would
be able to operate the system, only to be
assured that personal, one-on-one
instruction accompanied the installation.

The festivities continued the next
day with the first and only John D.
Wilson Invitational at the Lexington
Golf & Country Club. Fifty golfers from
around the country gathered for the cap-
tain’s choice tournament that included a
special format known as the “John Ball.”
The format involved each group playing
a ball with an unremarkable likeness of
the president stamped on it.

As luck—and fate—would have it,
first place in the John Ball competition
went to Team Wilson, which also
included trustee Vernon Holleman °’58,
trustee emeritus Joe Keelty °44, and
dean of admissions Bill Hartog. (Team
Baker, comprised of Tom Baker ’55,
trustee emeritus Royce Hough ’59, pro-

56

fessor of management John DeVogt, and
dean of students David Howison, took
first place in the captain’s choice com-
petition.) Afterwards, Wilson was pre-
sented with a certificate good for three
days at the Wintergreen Golf School
“because he needs it.” Additional offers
of help for the president’s beleaguered
swing were also forthcoming.

Next stop: Amsterdam. Travelling as
guests of the Board of Trustees, the
Wilsons joined the Alumni College tour,
“Holland and Belgium at Full Flower,”
for the weekend of May 5-7, where they
heard a performance of Mahler’s Second
Symphony conducted by Bernard Haitink
—the preeminent interpreter of Mahler
—with the Concertgebouw Philharmonic
Orchestra. A massive musical undertak-
ing that includes a chorus of 200, it
marked only the second time that
Wilson heard the symphony performed.

Reunion Weekend brought more
honors for Wilson. He was named an
honorary alumnus by the Alumni Board
of Directors and was also named an hon-
orary member of the Class of ’53, his
year of graduation from Michigan State.
If Wilson had been a member of that
year’s W&L football team, trustee Gray
Castle °53, °55L quipped, “we would
have had the kicker that we needed.”

‘The trustees’ meeting in late May
was the biggest celebration of Wilson
and his many accomplishments. A presi-
dential gala at the Lenfest Center in-
cluded selections from past events such
as Evita and portions of works by
Mozart, Mendelssohn, and a new orch-
estral version of “The W&L Hymn.”
Although there were a few professional
musicians in the orchestra, most of the
performers were students, alumni, and
faculty of Washington and Lee.

At a dinner at Evans Dining Hall fol-

 

lowing the performance, trustee emeri-
tus Tom Wolfe 51 offered praise for
Wilson’s tenure as president: “Whar
John and Anne Wilson did with the
coeducation issue was one of the most
brilliant pieces of political savvy ever
witnessed, because they never let the
issue become political, like gender poli-
tics. They handled it the Washington
and Lee way, with standards of honor,
decency, and intellectual curiosity.”

Wolfe continued: “The highest com- —
pliment we can pay you its to look at
what other people in the academic
world think of Washington and Lee.
Our reputation has never been higher.
... This athlete from Lapeer, Mich., has
become the exemplar of all the charaec-
teristics and dreams of Washington and
Lee.” The Board presented the Wilsons —
with a silver tray engraved with the ©
names of every trustee who served with
him and a reproduction of an 18th-cen-
tury English partners desk, done in yew
wood, with a hand-tooled leather top.

While Wilson, who earlier described ~
himself as “a shanty Irishman with saf-
torial deficiencies,” said he would not
miss “USAir or tear night,” he added —
that he would miss W&L. “I don’t know ~
how it is possible to understand how
we’ve been surrounded by such wonder
ful friends and all the forgiveness that
entails,” he said. “I came to Washington |
and Lee at just the right time. Bob
Huntley had made it possible for some-_
one to come along and suggest the pos-
sibility of change...to advance the insti-
tution without fear or favor.

“When you thank me, I accept that
most gladly, but I accept it on behalf of
everyone who has worked for this great
University. You have given us the
chance to be part of a place, and that 1S
rare in this world.” —By Brian Shaw

4

 

 

i.

 

 

l Tu Slee /

ee

 

 

 

 

 

y Otte

id . a z — ' ; Tanne 02? .a8hes tl a4 ase IGA
' a .? «= “- . —_ + «<< = > 4 “ . --* 7? a i an od
> Z P sf @—~4e- - 4 guy Se ; ore . » « . . . _———
ies ¢; Baik gets ne neo ees
.- \s

Bit.
ah, Go ¢? sald

ais

y ee Me

OM Lany ‘97

ON/AND “1 E

  

 

ald ’70 and his wife, Connie, sign a beam to go inside the new science center. Details, page 10.

5

The Washington and Lee University Non-Profit Org.
U.S. Postage

ALUMNI MAGAZINE P A Ta
Permit # 161

Lexington, Virginia 24450 Lynchburg, VA

 

Photo: W. Patrick Hinely ‘73

Mock Convention spared no expense to bring Republican Jack Kemp to campus in April.

