1

Vast onsets

ee i eee

a

 

Dear Fellow Alumni:

Having served as a member
of the Alumni Board of Directors
since 1988, I have the rare oppor-
tunity to observe and be a part of
the many different facets of our
University and its alumni pro-
grams. It occurred to me and to
others that this involvement
would present an opportunity to
inaugurate an occasional column designed to commu-
nicate to the alumni body some thoughts and perspec-
tives on the state of the University.

I should begin by giving you a bit of background on
some of the feelings that I have had about the University
prior to my becoming exposed to W&L on a first-hand
basis. I was not in favor of coeducation. I was greatly
concemed about the role of intercollegiate atheletics in
the W&L educational process. I had visited Lexington
in the 1960s and 1970s and felt some discomfort about
the physical appearance of the campus—especially the
fraternity houses and the students’ social activities.

Although the W&L of the 1990s is not perfect, I
have to admit to you that all of my concerns (whether
valid or not) have been put to rest. I feel that coeduca-

 

tion has been a complete success, although I might be
prejudiced, as my daughter Betsy is a 1990 graduate.
I am impressed with the evolution occurring in the
athletic department and its desire to keep alumni in
mind with respect to the quality and scheduling of
athletic teams. All of you are aware of the Fraternity
Renaissance program, and I can tell you that it will create
a much better living environment for the students af-
fected by it. So, as you can see, the things that were of
concern to me (and probably to many of you) are no
longer concerns of mine.

The students entering W&L today are all first rate.
The young men and women being accepted and choos-
ing to attend W&L rank consistently at the top of their
class , and are heavily involved in other school activities.
They are student leaders in every respect.

The sense of pride and commitment these students
have in the honor code and our system of self-govern-
ment is evident in the continuing efforts to refine and
make better what is widely perceived as one of the most
effective honor systems in higher education. As a result,
the honor code appears to be strong, and in the past year,
the students have made significant progress in stream-
lining the administration of student affairs in the areas
of the Student Conduct Committee and the Inter-
fraternity Council.

Academically, W&L continues to improve its reputa-
tion as one of the premier small liberal arts universities

ri.
Prive
<7? 7
<
~

-

= =
[=
Taw
A

-~ >

J 4

: pW

in the nation. The small student-faculty ratio, currently
11.5 to 1, continues to be one of W&L’s strong points.
Retirement of long-term faculty members is occurring,
yet new faculty appointments are steadily building a
solid core of teachers dedicated to W&L ideals. And
while W&L enrollment has expanded only slightly in
recent years, the Board has chosen wisely to limit
enrollement level of 1,600, ensuring this vital student-
faculty ratio.

W&L’s athletic programs continue to prove that
devotion to the principle of the scholar-athlete need not
mean the sacrifice of winning teams. Last year there
were 70 men and women participating in athletics who
also managed to make the honor roll with a 3.5 grade
point average or above. Yet last spring was one of the
best seasons in W&L history. Six of W&L’s eight teams
posted winning records, four won conference champion-
ships, and four squads went on to compete at the national
championships. And W&L teams overall won 63 per-
cent of their contests last year, the highest overall win-
ning percentage since W&L expanded to its current 21-
sport athletic program.

In short, I believe that you as alumni can remain
confident that the University is continuing to provide to
a whole new generation of talented young men and
women the unique W&L experience and education of
which we are all so proud.

I am also pleased to report to you that the state of the
W&L Alumni Association has never been stronger. ‘The
goal of the Alumni Board and the staff of the Alumni
Office is to provide as many different programsas possible to
serve the University’s constituency.

Those of you who have been involved in these
alumni activities will already be aware of what I have
mentioned above. To others who have been bystanders
rather than participants, all I can say is that there have
never been more opportunities to get involved as there
are now. Your participation, no matter what the degree,
will help you become better acquainted with the Univer-
sity and will provide you with an opportunity to serve.
Not only that, you’ll have a wonderful time doing so, too.

In closing, let me say that I am proud to be your
Alumni Board President. I encourage each and every
one of you to acquaint yourself with what’s happening at
the University, thereby demonstrating your pride in
Washington and Lee. The Alumni Board of Directors
and staff of the Alumni Office are on call to serve you
so please do not hesitate to let us know how we can be
of help.

Sincerely,

4. Richard O'Connell, '56
President, WerL Alumni Association

:

 

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

BriAN D. SHaw, Executive Editor

MIKE STACHURA, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

DENISE KUHN, Designer

Curis BARADEL, Class Notes Editor
Parrick HINELY, Photographer

BRIAN LoGur, Sports Editor

WILLIAM Cocke IV, Contributing Editor

EVAN ATKINS, Contributing Editor

Published four times a year in April, July,
October, and December by Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia 24450. All
communications and POD Forms 3579 should
be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450, (703)463-8464. Third-
class postage paid at Cincinnati, Ohio 45214.
Signed articles reflect the views of their authors
and not necessarily those of the editorial staff or
the University.

1 ype for this magazine was set using equipment
provided through the generosity of Mary Moody
Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

 

 

CONTENTS

VOLUME 66, NUMBER 3, FALL 1991

FEATURES

2
4
11

12

18

GAZETTE

22
24
25
31
32
33

Letters to the Editor
Alumni College

The W@L Alumni College is 10 years old, and its participants still are finding the University better
the second time around.

Morris Professorship Established

E.A. “Ed” Morris’ $1 million gift to Washington and Lee continues his tradition of gtving to the
University and his tradition of doing whatever it takes to get the job done.

Fighting for their lives

Florida judges William Gladstone, ’52, and Hugh Glickstein, °53, °551., have been fighting for
children’s rights in their state and the nation; it is a noble cause, but an awesome struggle.

Libraries at W&L: The Past... The Present

The card catalogs at the W&L libraries are a thing of the past now that a state-of-the-art, computerized
automation system has been installed.

CLASS NOTES

Alumni Notes
Marriages
Births

In Memoriam

Orientation 37
Colonial Homes 50
Lee’s Death 51
Law News 53
The Bookshelf

Alumni News

 

PHOTO CREDIT:

Cover photo and photos on pages 5 and 6 taken by Rob Fure,
Director of Special Programs.

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

A. Stevens Miles Jr., 51, Rector
John D. Wilson, President

COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY
BoARD

David M. Clinger, ’55
Robert S. Keefe, 68

Andrew H. McCutcheon, ’48
Robert Mottley, 64
Elizabeth Obenshain

Frank A. Parsons, ’54
Matthew W. Paxton, ’49
Sarah K. Wiant, ’78L

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Officers

J. Richard O’Connell, ’56, ’58L
President, Baltimore, Md.

Waller 'T. Dudley, ’74, ’79L

Vice President, Alexandria, Va.

James D. Farrar Jr., °74

Secretary and Director of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

Robert W. H. Mish III, ’76

Assistant Secretary, Lexington, Va.

Directors

Benjamin L. Bailey, ’75
Charleston, W.Va.

William M. Bowen, ’61

Hilton Head Island, S.C.

John A. Cocklereece Jr., ’76, °79L
Winston-Salem, N.C.

Virginia Bumgardner Garrison, ’75L
Staunton, Va.

J. Michael Jenkins III, ’64
Montgomery, Ala.

Robert S. Keefe, 68

New York, N.Y.

Charles T. McCord III, ’63
Houston, Texas

Edward F. Meyers Jr., 61, °63L
Cleveland, Ohio

Michael G. Morgan, *68
Stamford, Conn.

Mason T. New, ’62

Richmond, Va.

Henry (Skip) Nottberg III, °71
Kansas City, Mo.

William J. Russell Jr., ’57
Malvern, Pa.

William E. Smith Jr., °63
Birmingham, Ala.

J. Frank Surface Jr., °60
Jacksonville, Fla.

J. E. Jet) Taylor III, ’84
Michael T. Thornton, ’70, °78L
Atlanta, Ga.

H. William Walker Jr., ’68, °71L
Miami, Fla. ;

Robert K. Wittpenn, ’82

West Caldwell, NJ.

 

 

2 W&L

be T Thee

Laurels, letters for the Lenfest Center

EDITOR:

I was in awe and just a bit jealous after
reading about the “unwrapping” of the
magical new performing arts center gift to
Washington and Lee, the Lenfest Center
(“A Celebration of the Arts,” Summer
1991). It is, indeed, a spectacular addition
to the University culture, and hopefully
a magnet for a diverse, future student
population.

The feature spun my mental Rolodex
back some 30 years. ‘The creaky, moldy
shoe box of a loveable, dank and seedy old
theatre aroused then a real passion in me
and others, as eclectic a group of stu-
dents—and adults—as existed on cam-
pus in those post-Beat, pre-Hippie days.

Cecil Jones had just arrived to inspire
the theater and drama program and at-
tracted to his stage some very worthy
young actors—I‘im Morton, Bob Allen,
John Dunnell, Andy Adelson. Also shar-
ing the stage with us were the likes of Prof.
Keith Shillington, house mother Ruth
Brown, Lexington residents Betty
Saunders and Lisa ‘Tracy, and transient
luminaries like Edward Albee. Long,
passionate evening rehearsals, later cooled
by late-night snacks and highly animated
discussion around the corner on Main
Street. Sweet times, funny and sad, and,
most of all, deeply imprinted!

‘Today, married to an actress and the-
ater teacher and currently involved in the
creation of a new theater company in
Washington, I feel proud that the per-
forming arts at W&L have such spacious
and beautiful new quarters from which to
attract the passions and stamp the experi-
ences of future young men and women.

James N. Applebaum, *62
Silver Spring, Md.

EDITOR:

Concerning the articles in the last
issue of W&L on the dedication of the
Lenfest Center in May, I can say nothing
that hasn’t already been said by Mr. Roger
Mudd, and, with impressive eloquence,
by President Wilson. Still, I need to ex-
press my gratitude—to you, for the ar-
ticle, and to all those who played a role in
making the Lenfest Center a reality—
and my congratulations—to all of us in the
W&L community who will inevitably be

enriched and ennobled by the life of the
Lenfest Center.

Living in a society in which a major
news publication can seriously ask the
question “Is evil real?” in other than a
rhetorical manner and many in business,
politics, and public life generally seem to
have dismissed the question long ago as
altogether too quaint to merit posing, |
find Wilson’s dedication of the Lenfest
Center as “a house of criticism, a house of
clear and brave vision, where truth-telling
and truth-seeking will go on regardless of
the consequences” a source of inspiration
personally and, as an alumnus, a source of
just pride as well.

Wilson’s words more closely echo, in
fact, the words of Vaclav Havel, the play-
wright who now serves as President of
Czechoslovakia, than they do the words
of many presidents of many American
universities. Many leaders in academia
today, reflecting the general drift in society
at large, seem far more intent on pleas-
ing the powers that be and appeasing those
malcontents who scream loudly enough
or act violently enough to gain their at-
tention, than they do on supporting and
promoting those freedoms fundamental
to the quest for truth and to the establish-
ment of a just and humane society impos-
sible without such an ongoing quest.
Perhaps this has something to do with the
fact that, unlike the evil bravely con-
fronted by men like Havel in Czechoslo-
vakia, Adam Michnik in Poland, and
Andrei Sakharov in the Soviet Union, the
evil we face in contemporary America is
seductively disguised in entertaining com-
mercials, astute public relations announce-
ments, and the real and tangible benefits
derived from a capatilistic free market.

Whatever the causes of the generally
laissez-faire moral climate prevailing in
our society (and they are complex and
numerous, of course), the results of this
weather are insidious and, in the long
term, devastating to a free society under
law, with justice for all as one of its essen-
tial and fundamental ideals. For this rea-
son, it is immensely appropriate that Wil-
son should have made his remarks at the
dedication of a center devoted to the arts.

I cannot present in this space the
essential role of the arts in human society
any more articulately than Mr. Robert
Shaw already has in his remarks at this
year’s baccalaureate ceremony. Therefore,
I happily defer to Mr. Shaw. Here, I wish
simply to point out that, in an age when

many Americans (including many in the
art “establishment” itself) seem to be-
lieve that a crucifix submerged in urine
and photographs of exaggerated human
genitalia are art, it is critical to be re-
minded that art is vot by definition that
which shocks or titillates. Rather, as Shaw
points out, the arts “are not simply skills;
their concern is the intellectual, ethical,
and spiritual maturity of human life.”

I am profoundly grateful to those in
the W&L community like John Wilson,
Roger Mudd, and Gerry Lenfest, and to
those friends of W&L like Robert Shaw,
who remind us that there is a quality such
as spiritual maturity to which individual
human beings may aspire, who under-
stand that, while art may shock, it shocks
for a purpose and this purpose is moral.
Referring to President Wilson’s imagery,
the artist’s intent is always to move us (to
jolt us, perhaps) into perceiving, feeling,
realizing again (or even for the first time)
the heights of human possibility, heights
which are inevitably obscured by the
demands and constituencies of our mun-
dane lives. ‘This awareness of the heights
is essential to us if we are to behave like
something other than, something more
than, the beasts of the field in our relation-
ships with one another and even, more
generally, with our finite planet.

This past issue of W&L brings into
closer focus just what ea//y constitutes
W&L’s distinctive excellence among
America’s institutions of higher educa-
tion. It does this simply by ably and
honestly communicating life and thought
on campus today. I find both the com-
munication and the life and thought com-
municated cause for gratitude and cel-
ebration.

Len Blanchard, ’69
Key West, Fla.

+

Glee Club memories

EDITOR:

Oh, what a joy I felt when I read the
two letters from members of the Wash-
ington and Lee Glee Club during the
years that my husband, the late Dr. John
G. Varner, was its conductor.

After the group won the regional com-
petition held in Roanoke, it had an in-
tensive period of coaching in Lexington
before going on to New York and the

. ET. daa

session with Robert Shaw. The Glee
Club appeared at Carnegie Hall, and
there, bursting with pride, I attended the
performance, which, in my opinion,
reached the point of near perfection.
Jeanette J. Varner
Austin, ‘Texas

+

In praise of WEL

EDITOR:

I enjoy WEL immensely. Having
been a part of W&L for my son’s four
years of undergraduate study, a feeling of
belonging has been instilled. ‘The strong
quiet architecture and verdant rolling
grounds have a wonderfully calming ef-
fect for those of us who encounter the
never-ending, hectic business days. More
importantly, the quality of people—stu-
dents, faculty, and ancillary staff—is in-
comparable. I look forward to this pub-
lication, and thank you all for its “living”
quality.

Albert M. Cerone
Ocean , N.].

+

In defense of the individual

EDITOR:

As a Lambda Chi, I certainly agree
with Ms. Thurston (Letters, Summer
1991) that there is no reason for eight
Sigma Nus to be on any magazine cover
(Spring 1991). From that point on, how-
ever, there is total disagreement.

The basic one is that Ms. ‘Thurston
has to categorize everybody. My federal
government sees me merely as a number,
equal with/to everyone else, and other
agencies have to place me in some cat-
egory. Whatever happened to the con-
cept of the individual as a person?

Do so-called minorities have to be
displayed in a majority of (or even all)
situations? And what is a minority? Cer-
tainly not women, as the older the popu-
lation becomes, the greater majority
“women” becomes. What about Rus-
sians? Chinese? College ‘graduates?
When does it stop?

Let’s get back to the worth of the
individual as a uniquely created child of
God. With Dade County, Fla., presently

49 percent Hispanic, 27 percent black, 22
percent white, and two percent “Other”
(a category Ms. ‘Thurston probably loves),
I really don’t know where I stand.

I hope my category will remain only
myself.

J. Alan Cross, Jr., °51
Miami, Fla.

+
A suggestion for the Board

EDITOR:

In my 12 years as an alumnus, it
seems as though the slates of candidates
for the Board of ‘Trustees have the same
general characteristics: one M.D., one J.D.,
and one M.B.A. From my perspective, a
significant group of professionals is being
left unconsidered: Ph.D.’s in teaching or
research positions. ‘here would be no
dearth of candidates: there are five of us
from just the geology class of ’79.

I feel compelled to comment on this
situation because of the current climate
on my campus [Central Michigan Univer-
sity]. Basically, every on-campus con-
stituent group has passed overwhelm-
ingly (in all but one case unanimously) a
vote of “no confidence” in the president
of the university. ‘The Academic Senate
(which includes faculty, students, deans,
and the provost) passed without dissent a
resolution calling for the president to re-
sign. Much of the discord centers on a
centralized, imperial decision-making ap-
paratus that has a proven track record of
incalculable blunders. Appeals to our board
of trustees, who are political appointees,
have been futile. Indeed, one trustee went
so far as to call the faculty “snobs,” “fools,”
and “unprofessional.” Ah, life in an insti-
tution.

I cannot envision this happening at a
college as well-run as W&L, but it would
not hurt to establish a seat on the Board,
even if only ex officio, for an alumnus,
who is a faculty member at another insti-
tution (probably out of state or region

- to avoid any conflict of interest). In spite

of an excellent endowment and com-
paratively low tuition and fees, W&L
could feel a budget pinch due to a decrease
in prospective applicants or protracted
recession. This would ensure that fac-
ulty concerns are adequately communi-
cated and examined at Board meetings.

Stephen D. Stahl, ’79
Mc. Pleasant, Mich.

W&L 3

Alumni College:

The W&L Experience, the second time around

4 W&L

My:

t’s 10:30 a. m. ona
July morning and
class has been dis-
missed from the
School of Com-
merce, Economics and Politics.
Lamar Cecil, William R. Kenan
Professor of History at Wash-
ington and Lee, has just com-
pleted a spell-binding lecture
on the Nazi occupation of
Hungary, Czechoslovakia, and
Poland during World War II.
Earlier, Cecil had interrupted
his lecture to mention that the
celebrated British matinee idol
Leslie Howard starred in and
directed a 1941 picture named
“Pimpernel Smith” in which
he played a Raoul Wallenberg-
type character who saves the
lives of many Hungarian Jews.

WILLIAM
COCKE

A murmur of
instant recognition
runs through the
classroom. Ashley
Wilkes! Cecil adds
that Howard, whose
real name was Les-
lie Stainer, ironi-
cally, and perhaps
not coincidentally,
was himself Jewish
and of Hungarian
ancestry.

The front doors to McCormick Hall open and a group of
students emerge carrying notebooks and talking excitedly about
the lecture. Some break away and walk up to the Co-op fora
newspaper. Some make a quick trip back to Gaines Hall before
the next class. Inside, around coffee and pastries, other stu-
dents chat among themselves or gather around Cecil to ask
additional questions. At 11, everyone goes back upstairs, where
visiting professor Krzysztof Jasiewicz delivers an impassioned
speech on the state of Poland since the war. He is followed by
Severn Duvall, Henry S. Fox Jr. Professor of English, who gives
an eloquent explication of the poetry of two modern Polish
writers. At 12:30 the students break for lunch.

This familiar routine is repeated day after day on W&L’s
campus. Yet this time there is something different about these
students. ‘They are not in their early twenties. They are all
wearing name tags. And they often actually applaud after one
of their professors’ lectures.

The 1991 Washington and Lee Alumni College is in full
swing.

Now entering its tenth year, the college has grown steadily
in popularity and sophistication since its inception in 1982. In

 

 

 

Susan Yankee is engaged in a lively classroom debate
as Ralph Baucum Jr., ’58, looks on.

this final week of the 1991 program, 53 alumni, spouses, and friends of W&L attended
lectures, films, and musical recitals all related to the topic “Empire Without a Crown:

Central Europe Yesterday and Today.” During the previous two weeks, well over

100 other alumni and friends increased their knowledge of philosophy with the session,
“Five Great Ideas ‘That Shape Our Lives,” or satisfied their knowledge of the world
around them with “Australia/New Zealand: Way Over and Down Under.”

A few weeks later, in August, 21 others teamed with Dartmouth and Middlebury
alumni for a cruise down the Danube to the Black Sea, from Vienna to Istanbul.

  

Accompanying the travelers were Pro-
fessor Cecil and John Elrod, vice presi-
dent of academic affairs. At nearly the
same time, 30 intrepid voyagers, with
W&L geology professor Edgar Spencer
as escort, rafted 240 miles down the Color-
ado River and through the Grand Canyon.

Earlier in the year, scores of other
alumni had two of the best minds at W&L
come to them through the Alumni Chap-
ter Seminar program, in which professors
of history J. Holt Merchant and I. ‘Taylor
Sanders spoke on the topic “Robert E.
Lee: Soldier and Educator.” In March,
the opening of the Lenfest Center for the
Performing Arts inspired a new program
for the Alumni College, a theater semi-
nar. Theater buffs
were treated toa
weekend focusing
on a performance
of Eric Overmeyer’s
comedy On The
Verge. A similar
program is planned
for next year.

‘This year, well
over 500 alumni,
family members,
parents, and friends
were served in one
form or another by
the Alumni College.
In 1992, W&L will
offer an expanded
schedule of four
different week-long
campus programs,
five travel-study
programs abroad,
several “Saturday
Seminars” at vari-
ous alumni chapter locations, a weekend
theater seminar in the spring, and a
variety of short seminars during Home-
coming and Reunion weekends.

‘The success of the W&L Alumni
College can be traced back to one very
simple concept—that alumni would
enjoy returning to campus for educa-
tional purposes in order to renew their
intellectual ties with the university.

“The Alumni College was the first
new program idea that we developed

after the Office of Special Programs
was established in 1981,” says Director
of Special Programs, Robert P. Fure.
“The idea that alumni would want to
come back to W&L for educational
programs had been suggested to Presi-
dent Robert E. R. Huntley by various
alumni, and he encouraged me to look
into some possibilities. I researched
programs at Brown and Cornell, visited
the Dartmouth Alumni College, and
then formed a faculty committee to plan
the first program for 1982. ‘The popu-
larity of the inaugural program exceeded
our expectations.”

After receiving rave reviews from
the 55 participants the first year, the W&L

 

Alumni College was immediately ex-
panded to three programs for the next
summer.

From that modest but successful
beginning, the Alumni College concept
rapidly expanded to fill the demand for
the full range of programs that are offered
today. It now takes the Office of Special
Programs a good year to plan each campus
week. ‘The process begins in the early
fall with the selection of faculty and
topics. Many courses are chosen by past

participants through an annual summer
survey of topic interest. ‘l'wo of the
summer programs focus on the liberal
arts Or contemporary social or political
issues. A design is developed for each
program, including a lecture and dis-
cussion schedule, a reading list, and a
schedule of guest speakers. In the spring,
as a bit of final preparation, each faculty
team coordinates and refines their planned
presentations in order to assure an inte-
grated program.

‘The other two campus Alumni
Colleges focus on international topics
and anticipate travel programs to be
offered within the coming year.

“Through such programs, partici-
pants are able to ex-
plore the history
and culture of na-
tions more thor-
oughly than if they
had simply bought
a ticket at a local
travel agency,”
says Fure.

‘These and
other travel-study
programs constitute
the Alumni College
Abroad. Fure and
his staff are careful
to select a broad
range of tour oppor-
tunities from
proven operators
specializing in
educational travel,
allowing alumni to
travel with W&L
faculty to destina-
tions that offer
truly enriching cultural and historical
experiences. Each travel-study

Alumni College explorers shoot the rapids at Lava Falls on the Bio-Bio, one of two rafts that made the trip down
the Colorado River and through the Grand Canyon in August.

program includes readings and lectures
in addition to high standards of accom-
modation and tour management.

“We are aware,” says Fure, “that
every program we offer, whether on
campus or abroad, must reflect the stan-
dards that alumni have come to expect
from W&L.”

‘The standards are indeed high.
Past excursions have included trips to

W&L 5

 

 

 

 

Grand Canyon Explorers (Kneeling, from left) Sarah Deacon, Nancy Deacon, Janet Trotter, Betty Spencer, Bradley Renuart, Jim Hocker, Ed Spencer, Chris Hatcher, Emily

Renuart, Stephanie Renuart. (In raft) Members of the boat crew; (Standing, from left) Kip Deacon, boat crew member, V ‘infield Miller, Jean Christner, boat crew member, Jan
Silverstein, Mary James Hocker, Jerry Silver, Boyd Herndon, Ned Harlan, Jay Silverstein, Edie Spiegel, Firth Spiegel, Jim Deacon, Harold Quinn, Milton Herndon, Mary

Hocker, Wally Bishop, John Naill, Sherry Wallace, Bud Harlan, Carolyn Bishop, Bob Crockett, Jean Crockett, Virginia Huffman, Jim Arnhart, Yates Trotter.

most European nations, the British Isles,
and the Soviet Union, as well as several
American destinations. Trips in 1992
are planned for Australia, New Zealand,
Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary
as extensions of the courses given in
1991 on these nations. In addition, an
“eco-tour” to Costa Rica, a steamboat
journey up the Mississippi River from
New Orleans to Memphis, and an ex-
tended stay in Florence, Italy are all
planned for the coming year.

Coordinating excursions of this
nature is not without pitfalls. Over the
years, Fure has learned to limit the size
of the traveling party to about 35 people—
even if that means would-be travelers
miss out on popular trips. Tour operators,
especially those involved in eco-tourism,
are chosen with great care. And always,
the utmost effort is made to create the
right mix of learning, pleasure, and
comfort, so that the trip becomes some-
thing unavailable elsewhere. Indeed,
the success of the Alumni College right
from the beginning can be attributed in
large part to foresight.

“We started this program at just the

right time,” says Fure. “We’ve managed,

successfully I think, to be among the

6 W&L

first to recognize the potential for con-
tinued learning programs, and to reach
out to a substantial group of alumni who
are interested in this type of contact with
their alma mater. Today, representa-
tives from other schools are observing
our program and using it as the model
for their own.”

Yet the overall success of the Alumni

College program is not due entirely to

serendipity. “Eco-tours have become

quite popular recently,” says Mimi
Elrod, associate director of special
programs. “But we’ve been doing
them for several years, first with

a trip to the Galapagos Islands in 1986,
and then with a nature trip to Colorado
in 1988. Currently, for example, we are
the only school that ties its coursework
together with a subsequent trip abroad.”

ach year it is a tradition for an Alumni College fa-

culty member to host a party for the participants in

that week’s program. One evening mid-way through

the Central European seminar week, Lamar Cecil is

the host for cocktails at his home. Outside, on the

spacious patio, small knots of people chat amiably,

relaxing. Michael Barr, 69, and Kip Alexander, ’67, reminisce

with Duvall, a professor they missed out on during their under-

graduate days, but who they have recently discovered thanks

to the Alumni College. ‘They are marvelling at the changes in

the campus and the town over the years. "They remember what

it was like at W&L in the mid-Sixties.

‘They ask Duvall what

happened to the Lyric Theater and the Paramount Inn.

“When we teach at the Alumni
College, we try to make ourselves as
available to the alumni as we do to the
undergraduates during the normal
school year,” Duvall observes. “The
faculty-alumni relationship during one
of these programs echoes a fundamental
strength of the Washington and Lee edu-
cation. Their interest in continuing
their education is really a great justifi-
cation for what we attempted to instill
in them as undergraduates.”

Despite some initial skepticism
and natural hesitance at the prospect of
teaching adults, W&L’s faculty has whole-
heartedly endorsed the summer programs.

“What we’ve come to realize
through the Alumni College,” says Fure,
“is that education is a two-way street—
our faculty have learned a great deal
from their ‘students.’ Suffice it to say
that W&L faculty are very enthusiastic
about their role in the Alumni College.”

Sidney Coulling, professor of English
emeritus, present at the first Alumni
College, said of his experience then:
“The participants were bright, alert, alive,
vigorous. ‘They listened to what we had
to say, but they also raised intelligent
questions.”

‘This has not changed over the years.
‘The Central Europe seminar, for example,
was fascinating because most of the par-
ticipants grew up during or served in
the Second World War, a time of great
upheaval in that region in particular.
‘They brought to the classroom an im-
mense amount of experience that
enabled them to add a great deal to the
debate, even going as far as to correct
the teachers on occasion. This is the
kind of peer exchange that many pro-
fessors find invaluable to their own
learning, and it is what keeps them
coming back year after year.

The professors’ healthy enthusi-
asm, however, falls short of their students’.
‘Throughout the week, each student
wears a name badge with the number of
Alumni Colleges attended written in the
top left-hand corner. During the summer
programs at least half of the classes are
made up of people attending their third,
fourth, or tenth program. Three of the

 

 

 

 

Bruce Herrick

How do faculty
members view their
students at W&L’s

summer session

Alumni Colleges?

 

 

A FACULTY
VIEW

«He

One professor has told me: “Here
are a bunch of alumni and their spouses.
‘They choose to spend part of their sum-
mer vacations sitting in classrooms lis-
tening to lectures. In their free time
they talk with each other about what
they are learning. And they’re willing
to pay for the privilege! ‘Those are my
kind of people,” he concluded.

I can only agree. ‘To teach adults
who come to class voluntarily and who
bring a lifetime of worldly experience
with them is the dream of many profes-
sors. Of course we like working with
our regular students, but they are dif-
ferent. While their intelligence and en-
ergy are stimulating, their naivete is
sometimes breathtaking. ‘This is not
surprising. How much should we ex-
pect an 18 year-old to know about the
world? ‘That question never arises with
the alumni collegians.

Attending the Alumni College has
its own rewards for faculty members.
In a week devoted, say, to reform in
Central Europe, the economist learns
the views of the literary critic. The
historian is led to see events through
the eyes of the musician. ‘These orga-
nized interdisciplinary conversations
are nearly unique in academic life.
‘Those annual meetings of learned so-
cieties are, by contrast, usually narrow
and follow strict disciplinary lines.
Thus the Alumni College educates
more than the enrolled students. Its
contributions toward faculty develop-
ment are among its underrated virtues.

A professor from the School of
Commerce naturally calls attention to
one indicator of business success: re-
peat customers. In the Alumni College,
gratifying numbers of students return
every year, attesting to their attach-

 

ment to their alma mater’s ongoing
activities. For the professor who also
teaches repeatedly, the possibility of
maintaining friendships with former
students years into the future, has a
definite human value—a value happily
characteristic of Washington and Lee.

 

 

W&L 7

 

 

 

 

Toddy Trigg raises a question during an Alumni College seminar in the Commerce School. Her husband, Landon

Trigg, °51, is seated to her right.

participants this summer were attend-
ing their sixteenth program. First-timers
are known as “freshmen” and are gently
reminded of this fact from time to time.
“At least they don’t make us wear
beanies,” said Kip’s wife, Merry
Armstrong.

Even though past participants are
given first chance for placement in each
year’s program, as the Alumni College
programs have grown in diversity, so
have the participants.

“We continue to attract new alumni,
parents of current students, and people
who have read about our programs in
various publications such as 7he Wash-
ington Post and The New York Times,”
says Fure.

‘They represent a broad range of
age and background. ‘This summer,
attendees included one couple from the
class of 1918—the Edmund Campbells,
back for their fifth program—and a young
woman aged 15, the daughter of an
alumnus, who was interested in learning
more about New Zealand. Most of the
participants are in their fifties and sixties,

a fact that does not escape Fure.

“We realize that older people,
especially if they are retired, have more
free time and are less constrained by
family obligations. _That’s one reason
why we instituted our Junior Program,
which provides supervised recreation
for participants’ children, making it pos-
sible for younger alumni to attend the

8 W&L

 

Alumni College as a family vacation.
Some of the more adventuresome trips,
such as the recent outing to the Grand
Canyon, may also attract younger alumni.”

Yet, young or old, the backbone of
the Alumni College continues to be
those alumni who can’t seem to get
enough of it—who find W&L better
the second or third or 14th time around.
Jim Ballengee, ’48L, and Buck Bouldin,
’49, ’51L, are two perfect examples.
They, perhaps more than any others,
deserve the sobriquet “Mr. Alumni
College.”

Ballengee, a former ‘Trustee and
rector of the Board has, along with his
wife Jo, attended 14 programs since 1986,
including two in a row this summer.

“Intellectual curiosity doesn’t end
at commencement,” Ballengee says.
“To be so narrowly focused that you
kept up to date only on your business or

profession would be boring. Through
the Alumni College, W&L offers
rewarding challenges, a stimulus to the
intellect, and the opportunity to study,
socialize, and travel with compatible
people and delightful faculty members.”

The Ballengees’ favorite programs
in the past have included programs on
the Italian Renaissance and the French
Enlightenment.

Bouldin, when asked to describe
why he has been such an avid devotee
of the Alumni College over the years,
replied, “It enables me to spend one
week a year disassociating my thoughts
and activities from what I do for the 51
other weeks. I find that far more re-
freshing than spending time at some
resort with nothing to occupy my mind.

“One is able to renew acquaintan-
ces with good people in a setting that is
almost as dear to you as home. Besides,
Rob runs the place more effectively
than a Swiss resort.”

Bouldin and his wife, Martha, rarely
miss a summer, having attended 11 pro-
grams. In fact, this summer he arranged
to have a booklet printed and distributed
to everyone at the “Five Great Ideas”
seminar. ‘The title: “In the Good Old
Summertime: An Anthology of Alumni
College Verse.” Here’s one example:

There once was a man named Doestevsky
Who went for a stroll on the Nevsky;
Upon return from his walk

Of some crimes he would talk

But more of their punishments pesky.

(Great Writers, 1985)

Only at Washington and Lee.

n the final day, the class assembles to hear a group
lecture on the future of Central Europe. As each
professor speaks in turn on his or her subject, the
students ask questions, or, as is typical of the

Alumni College, field questions from the teachers

themselves. ‘The result is a lively, spirited hour and fifteen

minutes that culminates in a round of applause for the teachers

in the recognition of a week well spent.

“Ir’s not unusual for teachers to
receive applause or even standing ova-

tions at the Alumni College,” says Fure.

Bill Thompson , ’54, and his wife,
Nancy, agree. “These programs are first-
class, and we have access to some really
top-flight faculty. I don’t see how they
can be done much better, and frankly, I
can’t imagine a better use of my time in
retirement,” Ihompson says.

 

Gray Castle, 53, echoes the senti-
ments of many alumni when he says,
“I’ve lived in or visited 60 countries and
every state in the United States, and I
mean it literally when I say that Lexing-
ton and Washington and Lee are the
best places to be in the whole world.”

Consider also Bob Glenn, 51. He
and his wife, Clydenne, were recent
freshmen at the Central Europe seminar.

 

 

 

 

Visiting professor Krysxtof Jasiewicx talks over coffee with Alumni Collegians one afternoon as Bill Thompson, ’54,
and wife, Nancy, listen.

Although from Roanoke, Va., the
Glenns had not been back to campus in
years. ‘hey made several visits when
they first moved to Roanoke, but for
various reasons had let their connection
to W&L lapse. Now, however, they
have caught the Alumni College “bug”
and plan to return, if possible, next year.

When one takes into account these
recent testimonials and considers the
numbers who return, a few things
become clear.

First of all, it is important to remem-
ber that the Office of Special Programs
is a branch of the academic administra-
tion at W&L. The goal is to design and
manage educational programs that have
their own academic integrity, while at
the same time, providing ways in which
adults can continue to learn in a comfort-
able and stimulating environment.

In other words, the reason for the
success of the Alumni College in the
past ten years is that there 1s a signifi-
cant group of alumni who want to renew
their intellectual relationship with the
University. ‘Those who attend the
alumni colleges or any of the other
special programs, see Washington and
Lee as a working entity engaged in the
process of education. ‘They see the
“brain trust” of the university—its
faculty—in action. ‘They make an in-
tellectual reunion with their school.

High-minded as this sounds, noble
objectives don’t interfere with results.
All alumni collegians stress that they
choose to, in effect, go to school during
their vacation because learning has been
made—believe it or not—fun. Without
the pressures of exams and grades,
learning becomes not a chore but a plea-
sure. ‘Through the Alumni College, the
best aspects of the often hazy memories
of college suddenly become reality. For
certain alumni, the Washington and Lee
experience is not a thing of the past—it
is repeated year after year.

For information on the

Alumni College programs, call:

Office of Special Programs
(703) 463-8723

W&L 9

 

 

The Alumni College

at E MOST VALUABLE EXPERIENCE W&L HAS EVER OFFERED
TOITS ALUMNI. That’s my assessment of the Alumni College after partici-
pating in at least one or two of its programs in each of the last eight years.

My wife, Heather, approached the first program we attended—back in
1984—with a bit more hesitation than I did. She didn’t know exactly what to
expect. She had never attended a class at W&L, nor had she finished all the recom-
mended reading. She feared being asked a question that she couldn’t answer.

It had seemed a better idea to her the December before, when we decided
to sign up for the course on Elizabethan England. I was intrigued by what I had
read and heard about the Alumni College concept. We knew that the kids were
going in different directions the next summer, leaving us free for a week that

 

 

“Tho ] otherwise would have been spent with them at the beach. In addition, those
17aVE. yy TORT ams who attended were offered the prospect of a trip to England—travelling with
W&L alumni and W&L professors—the following year. So we decided to try it.
ave well-planned and Well, as it turned out, Heather need not have worried. She fell in love, as I
had, with W&L and its beautiful campus. And the one-week course on England
well: -executed. 7 he was outstanding. No one called on her in class. “There were no quizzes, no exams,
no embarrassment. Everything was handled to perfection. It was a wonderful
campus progr GMS aTe blend of social, athletic, and academic activities. We delighted in making new

. . 7) friends of so many W&L alumni and their spouses. And we began to treasure
stimulating but restft ul. new relationships with W&L professors. We were fortunate to have had John
Evans (literature), Pam Simpson (art), and Taylor Sanders (history) as our faculty
HARDIN MARION for that program. All three of them joined our group the next summer, leading us
on a two week tour through London, Tunbridge Wells, Winchester, Salisbury,
Bath, Stratford, Oxford, and back to London again.

As you might imagine, Heather and I were hooked after our first Alumni College experience. We have returned to Lexing-
ton each year for one of the three campus programs and we now consider ourselves committed Alumni Collegians. As a rule of
thumb, our first choice has always been the program that is linked to a trip abroad the following year. For that reason, we have
had to pass up some pretty interesting programs that we both would have enjoyed—the Civil War, Mozart and Shakespeare, Five
Great Ideas, Law and Society, World War II, to name a few that I wish we hadn’t missed.

After the Elizabethan England program, we enjoyed campus programs on Renaissance Italy; Eighteenth Century France;
the Fall of the Empires of Russia, Germany, and Austria-Hungary; Ireland and Scotland; Spain; Australia and New Zealand; and
Central Europe. As a result, we have traveled with Alumni College Abroad programs to Italy, France, Russia, Austria, Germany,
Ireland, and Scotland. Our faculty escorts have included Bill Jenks (history), Fran Drake (French), Gordon Spice (music), Mario
Pellicciaro (classics), Lamar Cecil (history), and even W&L president John Wilson (doubling as a professor of Irish literature).
Unfortunately, the trip to Spain was bumped by the Persian Gulf War, but Australia/New Zealand and Central Europe are
planned for 1992.

Heather and I make new friends at each program. Because so many alumni collegians return to repeat their experience,
each program becomes a reunion in itself. When we travel abroad, we count on knowing more than half of our companions
before we set out.

I can’t say enough about the value of the Alumni College. Rob Fure, who conceived the program and who has directed it
for ten years, gets my vote for W&L’s unsung hero. The travel programs are well-planned and well-executed. ‘The campus
programs are stimulating but restful. All are mind-stretching, yet, at the same time, they are fun too! For those so inclined, there
is always time for tennis, golf, hiking, and other non-intellectual activities. If there are any regrets, it is that more alumni haven’t
yet experienced W&L’s outstanding Alumni College.

Heather and I have now attended thirteen Alumni College programs—eight in Lexington and five abroad. But we don’t
hold the record for participation. Nancy and Bill Thompson, ’54, of Chapel Hill , N.C., and Horace Jeter, ’42, of Shreveport,
La., are veterans of sixteen programs each.

Before W&L’s Alumni College became a part of my life, I never thought much about retirement. I still don't, but every so
often I tell myself that if only I were retired, I could attend every Alumni College program. I wouldn’t have to miss a one!

 

 

 

 

10 W&L

E.A. “Ed” Morris, ’26, al-
ways has been the sort who
unassumedly goes about his
business, doing whatever it
takes, whatever makes sense,
to getthe jobdone. He did that
as chiefexecutive officer of Blue
Bell, Inc., leading the apparel
firm to a position of prominence
in the industry. He did that
again, when he—doing what
only seemed logical and practi-
cal to him—donated $1 million
to the Duke University Com-
prehensive Cancer Center some
15 years ago, saying at the time
that it was the wisest use of the
money in fighting a disease
that threatened his own life.

Now, he is
doing the same
for Washington
and Lee, push-
ing the Univer-
sity forward with
a $1 million gift
to the Univer-
sity. The gift
echoes Morris’ long history of
giving back to his alma mater.

‘The Board of ‘Trustees has de-

cided to use the gift to create an endowed
professorship in Morris’ name and in his
honor.

Washington and Lee always has
striven to uphold the ideal of being a great
teaching university. W&L prides itself
on its talented pool of educators, who are
always accessible to their students. Main-
taining such a quality faculty does require
the necessary funding, however, and the
Morris gift will be an important part of
meeting those needs.

The importance of a thriving, vital
faculty cannot be underestimated, Presi-
dent John D. Wilson said.

“We have the obligation to develop
compensation programs that attract the
most promising young scholars in this
country, scholars who have the potential
to grow to the stature of our retiring giants,
and who will readily subscribe to the

 

Morris Professorship

Establ

University’s values and priorities,” he said.
“The strength of Washington and Lee in
the coming years is guaranteed by a strong
and committed faculty. Attracting and
retaining such talented teachers can only
come about with the help of thoughtful
benefactions such as the wonderfully
generous gift from Ed Morris.”

One man who certainly has made the
most of his Washington and Lee educa-
tion is Ed Morris. After earning a master’s
degree in business from Harvard in 1929,
he quickly gained the necessary tools and
experience that would allow him to lead
Blue Bell, one of the nation’s prime manu-
facturers of blue jeans (Wrangler), to the
heights of success.

In what most certainly is a classic
story of working one’s way to the top,
Morris started with Blue Bell as a plant
manager in Abingdon, IIL, in 1937. In

ished

less than four years, he was el-
evated to the office of executive
vice president in charge of manu-
facturing, and in 1948, he was
named president and chief ex-
ecutive officer. He was named
chairman of the board in 1974
and served in that capacity for
seven years until 1981.

Morris has served on many
business and civic organizations
and is a past director of the
Greensboro, N.C., Chamber of
Commerce, the U.S. Industrial
Council, the North Carolina
Dept. of Natural and Economic
Resources, and the National
Association of Manufacturers.

The recipient of many

awards, Morris

has been named

e the North Caro-

lina Free Enter-

prise Man of the

Year, has been

inducted into the

Greensboro Busi-

ness Leaders Hall

of Fame, and has received the

Citation for Distinguished Citi-

zenship Award from the North
Carolina Citizens Association.

Morris has a long history of involve-
ment with Washington and Lee. His
$250,000 gift to the University in 1988
established the Edwin A. Morris Scholar-
ship and created the Edwin A. Morris
Endowment to enrich the economics pro-
gram. Previous gifts were especially help-
ful in establishing the micro-computer
center in the Commerce School.

Morris is a past member of the plan-
ning and development council of the
W&L Board of Trustees and is former
chairman of the University’s estate plan-
ning council. His gifts to the University
now total more than $2 million. During
his years at W&L, Morris was named to
ODK, and was a member of the Sigma
Chi social fraternity. He received an
honorary doctor of laws degree from the
University in 1980.

W&L 11

Fighting for

12 W&L

by:

 

   

lives

TWO FLORIDA JUDGES

CRUSADE FOR CHILDREN’S RIGHTS

°° T believe that in child advocacy, individual heroes
and heroines concetve programmatic responses and
then have the courage to take the risks necessary for
success. As has been said, you cant have lemonade
without lemons, and you cant meaningfully address
the best interest of the child without leaders—andiwidu-

 

 

 

 

 

MIKE
e STACHURA

If you could look into the eyes of a
child—a four-year-old girl who’s been
sexually abused by her stepfather, or a

12-year-old boy who can’t go home any-

more because his mother and father have
told him they don’t want him anymore,
or a 14-year-old boy who has run with
the wrong crowd for the last three years

and has been in and out of juvenile de-

tention ever since—you might under-
stand, if you looked long enough and
hard enough, what Judge William

als with vision, faith, courage, energy, creattv-
ity and commitment. Such indtoiduals un-
derstand that their involvement ts neither a
marathon nor a sprint, but 1s more like a

mile run—requiring pacing and grit but
having a destination in mind and in sight. 99

—Hugh Glickstein

Speech at Ripon College, April 12, 1991

Gladstone, 52, and JUGRe Hugh

‘The fear seed neogamiaiiea of the op-
pressed and troubled children of our
world. ‘The lost, lonely, sad cry that
only special people hear.

Gladstone and Glickstein, class-
mates, great friends, and co-crusaders,
have been hearing and acting upon this
cry of our children throughout their
careers as judges and children’s advo-
cates in Florida. Glickstein has been an

appellate judge since 1979 and has been
leading the charge of the children’s rights
crusade since 1982. Gladstone has
been administrative judge in Dade
County’s Family/Juvenile Circuit Court
in Miami since 1973.

Gladstone earned his law degree
from Yale in 1955 and then went on to
practice law in Dade County for 17 years
before turning his attention to the bench.
He ran for judge in 1972—“the only
political office ve ever run for”’—and
focused his campaign on the idea of
family law. He defeated the incumbent
judge, something that isn’t done all that
often, and was re-elected unopposed in
1978, 1984 and 1990. Other than a year
in 1982-83 as then-Gov. Bob Graham's
full-time Special Advisor on matters of
Juvenile Justice, Gladstone has been on
the bench, fighting the battle to protect
Dade County’s children and preserve
their future.

Glickstein also started his career in
private practice, and was a lawyer in his
own firm for 20 years before Graham
appointed him to the circuit court in 1979
and later the 4th District Court of Appeals.
He was named chief judge in 1991.

The two friends have taken dif-

ferent routes in fighting the same battle.

Each has his own area of responsibility.
Each has served as inspiration for the
other. And each has made a difference
in the way children are treated by the
legal system. They have provided fuel
for the fire of child advocacy and they
have given hope where too often there
was none.

 

 

 

 

 

 

°s omchow I beheve that there 1s at least that will
within our species to survive and a vague understanda-
ing that survival is contingent upon our making this
world a much better place for our duldren. We humans,
or at least most of us, do love our children, even if we
do have little concern for the children of others. Per-
haps the one thing all people worldwide have in com-
mon ts an interest in the well-being of their own chil-
dren. That single fact may be the surest path to world
peace. We can hope that it might also be a path that
leads us to care for the well-being of all children. 99

—William Gladstone

Speech at International Citizens Anti-Poverty Press Conference, Dec. 12, 1989

The juvenile courts in Dade county

are packed with children on a typical
day. A hundred children and a smatter-
ing of adults sit in the waiting room on
one end or in a detention center on the
other. All are waiting to find out about

a future set in motion by a troubled and
uncontrollable past. Some of these kids—
often eight- and nine-year-olds—might
have a parent they actually see on a
regular basis. Many do not. Some of
these young people have committed

W&L 13

 

 

William Gladstone

terrible acts of violence—vicious assaults,
rapes, murders. And when they come
into court for the first time or the third
time or the fifth time, what you see is
the cold blank stare of helplessness and
hopelessness.

This is what Bill Gladstone sees
everyday in his courtroom. If you have
never been to juvenile court, know this:
It is quite nearly miraculous that Gladstone
can summon the strength to leave at the
end of every day. While the workload
is immense and the hours are long, the
real burden is the constant sense of
despair that governs his daily business.
And yet this is where the 61-year-old
Gladstone desperately wants to be.

“IT have become immersed in this
very small area of the law,” he says.
“This is the only court where I really
feel I can do something constructive,
where I can have the chance to touch
lives in a lasting and important way.”

Believe that he has and he does.
Look at the wall full of awards and

14 W&L

citations and the others that clutter his
work table. See the statue of Don
Quixote with the words, “To Judge
William Gladstone who in pursuit of his
impossible dreams, fought the windmills
of bureaucracy, 1982-83” inscribed
below. Scan the vita that includes more
awards and pages full of juvenile justice
committees. And read in The Miami
Herald of his being presented with one
of that newspaper’s coveted Spirit of
Excellence Awards this September.

Or better, listen to him talk about
the things you don’t first see. ‘The scat-
tered photographs. The hand-made pot-
holders and the scrawled artwork that
would do any refrigerator proud. This is
the real evidence. This is what making
a difference is all about.

“These are the great moments,”
Gladstone says. “Each of these items
has a little story of its own. Not all of
them have happy endings. Mostly what
we see are children who have never had
a moment of success in their lives until,

oe
oo Pre
Poe cad

J
7

Re
o%

 

for instance, they drew this picture. ‘That's
important. We need to understand that.”

It is with this sense of the problem
that Glickstein, too, came to see the
groundbreaking work of his friend in
juvenile justice. In the early 1980s, the
indefatigable Glickstein began to hone
in on what was at the root of crime and
punishment.

“It was just a point I reached in my
life. I developed the growing concern
that basic societal problems could only
be attacked at their roots by focusing
upon children,” Glickstein says. He is
quick to point to the words of the late
Dr. C. Henry Kempe, one of the origi-
nal child advocates and the man who
did the first work on “the battered child
syndrome,” who once observed that “it
is easier to build children than to repair
adults.”

Glickstein focused his efforts on
the Florida Bar Association and instill-
ing in that body a need to establish a
committee on the legal needs of chil-

dren. With that accomplished by 1983,
Glickstein began crusading efforts to
bring the issue to national attention,
urging state bar associations nationwide
to follow Florida’s lead and founding an
American Bar Association task force for
children. He also began efforts to promote
the establishment of children’s services
councils—a special interdisciplinary
organization designed to answer the
unmet needs of area children—in every
county in Florida. He has come to be
known as a founding father in the effort
to get state bar associations to establish
standing children’s rights committees.

He, like Gladstone, has garnered a
healthy share of accolades, including
being named Judge of the Year in 1984
and having the Florida Bar’s Child
Advocate of the Year award named in
his honor in 1989. Like Gladstone, too,
he directs the attention to other things
and the efforts of other people in the
business of child advocacy, rather than
dwell on his own accomplishments. If
anything, these awards serve as recogni-
tion of the problem, and that, after all, is
the point of their work.

And yet it isa seemingly never-
ending fight.

 

© °C hildren are stacked up in overcrowded shelters,
foster homes, and detention centers. Services of all sorts,
especially drug treatment and mental health services,
are lacking or inadequate. Our communities and our
courts are flooded with children abused, children hun-
ory, children born to cocaine-addicted parents, children
horn with AIDS, children born to children, and chil-
dren so undernurtured and so undereducated that they
will be social, economic, and emotional invalids for the

rest of their lives. 99

A problem so easy to perceive
seems so easily forgotten by a public too
busy to care and a bureaucracy too
consumed with votes and political
action committees to listen. That is the
main source of frustration for caring,
driven men like Gladstone and
Glickstein. Yet both men press on,
propelled by an inner sense that things
can be changed for the better. ‘Talk

—William Gladstone
Miami Herald, June 3, 1990

about that drive with them and the con-
versation seems to naturally flow toward
their days at Washington and Lee.

As undergraduates, both were very
active writers. Gladstone was editor-in-
chief of The Ring-tum Phi, while Glickstein
worked side-by-side with Gladstone as
Phi sports editor. Glickstein also was an
assistant editor with the Southern
Collegian. Both were selected to ODK,

each was a dormitory counselor, and
their senior year Ca/yx entries were
among the largest of their class.

Both men pause when Washington
and Lee is brought up in conversation.
They remember W&L as a very pro-
ductive time in their lives, a wholly
educational experience.

“T think what I was able to do in
college, because of the atmosphere at
Washington and Lee, was develop a
healthy sense of independence,” said
Gladstone, voicing a sentiment shared
by his schoolmate and friend. “With
great men like Dean Leyburn and Dean
Gilliam, W&L let you develop that
freedom to make mistakes and, more
importantly, learn from those mistakes.
It was a special way of life and a special
place that I suppose might have left us
with some degree of moral conscience.”

There’s really no supposing about
it. ‘These two men in at least the area of
children’s rights seem to maintain the
moral conscience for a society often too
busy to care and too ethically uncon-
scious to look past its collective televi-
sion screen. The effort of Glickstein
and Gladstone is an effort to stave off
self-destruction. It is a mission to pre-
serve our future by fighting with our
present.

Gladstone’s 12 months away from
the bench from July 1982 to July 1983
as the Florida governor’s special advisor
on the needs of children was an
especially important time in the lifetime
of the children’s movement in Florida.
It was then that the judge put together
a pair of landmark programs that kept
the ball rolling in the children’s move-
ment. The first project—the Florida
Environmental Institute—was a special
form of the prison/boot camp idea for
violent and chronically serious juvenile
offenders. Through Gladstone’s efforts
and those of the Associated Marine
Institute (the non-profit group in Miami
that runs the camps), the FEI became
one of the most successful rehabilitative
programs of its kind.

The second vital development
from Gladstone’s year as full-time
advocate was the establishment of the

W&L 15

Governor’s Constituency for Children,
an important state council designated to
attack children’s problems on all levels.
Both Gladstone and Glickstein were
leaders on that special council. During
its existence, the Governor’s Constitu-
ency served as the voice in government
for children, the most politically mute
segment of our society and perhaps the
most disregarded.

Much was accomplished by Glad-
stone’s year off the bench, but more
work needed to be done.

Glickstein picked up the ball
through his untiring efforts to bring
children’s issues before the public at the
local, state, and national levels. Glick-
stein is the man who “doesn’t have any
concept of his own limits, and it’s a
blessing to the world that he doesn’t,”
according to Gladstone. Glickstein spoke
at ABA conventions, chaired commit-
tees, and even served as a T'V spokes-
man during campaigns to get children’s
services councils established. It was his
effort that got the Nova Law Review, a
Florida law journal, to devote an entire
issue to the problems of children’s rights.
Glickstein organized the state associa-
tion of Children’s Services Boards and
Councils this year.

His work in the area of children’s
services councils was especially vital. In
collaboration with other child advocates,
Glickstein helped bring about these
county boards, which include individu-
als from the areas of education, govern-
ment, human services, and the judiciary, as
well as child advocacy. The duties of
the council would be to determine chil-
dren’s needs and then fund applicable
programs through monies raised by
taxes. ‘These councils would be estab-
lished by ordinance, but would receive
their funding through a local tax that
had to be approved by voters. Thirty
Florida counties have begun efforts
toward establishing children’s services
councils, 18 have not.

Money matters. Therein lies a
huge problem faced by children’s
advocates.

16 W&L

 

What ts more important—a child's future or an
adults past? If our committee can continue to speak
Sor children so long and hard that these leaders finally
take up the cry, then all of us might have that opportu-
nity to live happily ever after. 99

—Hugh Glickstein

Statement of Purpose, The Florida Bar’s Special

Gladstone and Glickstein are both
weary of trying to preserve the future by
trying to repair a dilapidated present,
despite not having the tools to do the
job correctly.

“It’s just that not enough people can
get it through their heads than an ounce
of prevention is worth a pound of cure
and a ton of prevention,” Glickstein
says. “We contine to react to the fear
mongers who keep saying that we need
to build more prisons and get tougher
on crime, all of which must keep Johnson
and Johnson thrilled to death because
all we’re doing is ordering more and
more Band-Aids while the cancer grows.

“What we should be concentrating
on is prevention and early intervention,
and that’s why children’s services councils
are sO important.”

Gladstone sees it that way, too.

“What I cannot get used to is the in-
ability to deal with and remedy this situ-
ation for the want of resources,” he says.

But Glickstein and Gladstone have
made due, and they have, as Gladstone
likes to point out, been able “to con-
stantly prick the public’s conscience”
about the needs of children. And there
have been important successes. The
guardian ad /item program is one of those.
Essentially the protector of a child in
court, a guardian ad litem is a court-
appointed lawyer that serves the best
interests of the child during litigation.
Gladstone was the founding judge of
the Dade County Guardian ad Litem
Program, while Glickstein has spoken at

Committee for the Needs of Children

guardian ad litem training programs and
recently received an award from the
Florida Guardian ad Litem Program this
year. Gladstone goes out of his way to
let the guardians ad litem he works with
know how much their work is appreci-
ated, occasionally interrupting his ruling
to cite a guardian’s time and effort.

Like everything these men support,
it is an effort at early intervention, an
effort to preserve or even instill a child’s
hope for the future.

It is a concern for parenting that
lies at the base of all child advocacy.
‘Too many of today’s criminal problems
are caused by people who weren’t
parented, and the cycle is repeating
itself, both men say. Every day in his
courtroom, Gladstone is confronted
with so many unloved and unwanted
children. Often, he will run through 50
dispositional hearings in an afternoon,
assigning one child to a detention
center, another to a health and rehabili-
tative services mental health facility,
and a third to the home of a grand-
mother, or aunt, or even sister, who has
agreed to care for this 11-year-old girl.

As Glickstein likes to say, “In child
advocacy, parenting is the dog and every-
thing else is the tail.”

‘These men have tried to make a
difference, but fighting this battle is a
recurring nightmare.

“The worst child abuse,” Gladstone
says, “is when you have the child at
eight or 10 or 12 whose parent brings
him into court and says ‘You take him, I

never want to see the son-of-a-bitch
again.’ I can never make up for that
moment. ‘That just tears you apart.”

But maybe Zecause it tears them
apart, Gladstone and Glickstein con-
tinue to speak for the children. While
Glickstein’s time has been decreased by
his increased duties as the new Chief
Judge of Florida’s Fourth District Court
of Appeals, he still continues to hope for
more good things, more impossible
dreams to come true.

“You can’t get a national presiden-
tial candidate to make children a major
campaign issue and be successful at it,
and that hurts,” he says unabashedly.
“But I guess you have to say, ‘Is the cup
half full or half empty?’ Looking back
on what it was eight or nine years ago,
we've come a long way, and we’re still
slugging it out.”

It is a view Gladstone shares.

“IT am cynical enough to believe
that people are not going to change out
of a noble sense of values,” he says.
“Too many people have the opinion
that they'll take care of children when
they become a threat to us. What I’m
trying to do is make people realize that
if children aren’t properly nurtured, they
will be a threat to us.”

ll these two men can do
is hope and care enough to continue to
act. Watch the children—the four-year-
old girl, who’s been sexually abused by
her stepfather, laughing in a healthy
foster home for the first time, or the 12-
year-old boy, who can’t go home any-
more because his mother and father
have told him they don’t want him any-
more, proudly presenting a hand-made
pot-holder to his juvenile court judge, or
the 14-year-old boy, who has run with
the wrong crowd for the last three years
and has been in-and-out of juvenile de-
tention ever since, beaming with a
sense of accomplishment after six
months at work camp—and you will
understand why these men hope and
act as they do.

 

 

 

The Rage
of Children

This drawing, which
was part of a Miami
exhibition entitled “The
Rage of Children,” may

 

do more to illustrate the
problem of troubled

 

 

children than any speech

 

by any child advocate.

The exhibition was held at the Miami-Dade Community College’s
Centre Gallery in January and featured paintings, sculptures, and photo-
graphs depicting the growing despair in the lives of today’s children. All
but one of the pieces in the exhibit were by accomplished artists. This
particular drawing, however, came from the hand of a 12-year-old boy.
His story is as discouraging as it is shocking, and it illustrates the many
problems that can be brought to bear on any child, problems that any
child is not prepared to solve.

In an opening essay to “The Rage of Children” exhibition, Judge
William Gladstone explains the story of “Jimmy.”

“‘Jimmy’ is your child and mine. We created him and his world.
‘Jimmy’ is not his name, but his story is real. Jimmy, the young artist, was
in a rage some weeks before he drew his picture.

“..Jimmy lived in the suburbs. The only obvious abuse or neglect
he suffered was that his mother did not love him. His rage was the quiet
kind, but he was predictably ‘unattached’ in this unattached society we
have created. It strikes me as hypocritical, then, that the community
expressed shock when Jimmy, age 12, in his quiet rage and with careful
planning but no harsh words, took out the family .357 Magnum and shot
his mother dead.

“_..A few weeks later, Jimmy drew this picture. Jimmy was not
mentally ill or emotionally paralyzed like so many of his companions in
the Juvenile Detention Center. Indeed, he was already half-socialized and
knew it, as his self-portrait confirms. ‘The drawing was spontaneous — a
portrait, as I see it, of a child not sure of who he was or how he felt about
himself, his world, or what he had done. ‘Which side of the face am I?
What have I become? Which side will I be?’

“Many of us who work to overcome the rage of children have tried
for decades to explain the story of countless Jimmys to a public that will
not listen. Maybe the artist will have better luck. Maybe a deaf public
will at least see the picture — the whole picture — and change the scene
before it is too late.”

 

W&L 17

 

THE PAST / CARD CATALOGS

Libraries at W&L

THE PRESENT / AUTOMATION

 

 

Pizza parties in the library? But the
sign out front explicitly states, “No food
or drinks allowed.”

This, however, is a special occasion.
It is late July, and the library staff and
their summer helpers are celebrating
the first hurdle in
a huge, somewhat
tedious, summer
task—attaching
barcode stickers
on the backs of
all the books in
the University
Library. They
have just com-
pleted barcoding
50,000 volumes
of bound period-
icals—only
350,000 books
left to go!

The bar-
coding project
was the final step
for W&L’s two
libraries, the Uni-
versity Library
and the Law
Library, as they
prepared for the
move to an auto-
mated system
this fall. When

the new system

DY: EVAN is completely installed, the two libraries
a

ATKINS will become one, at least electronically.
“This is a monumental step in

 

 

 

 

library development,” said Sarah K.
Wiant, head librarian at the W&L
School of Law. “It’s like getting a new
building.”

18 W&L

Barbara Brown, head of the Univer-
sity’s undergraduate library, has a hard
time hiding her excitement over the in-
stallation of the automated system.

“For the first time, students and
faculty will have comprehensive access
to all of W&L’s holdings,” she said.

‘These summer celebrations, com-
plete with parties, ‘T-shirts, and “Bar-
coding Barometer” posters, are not the
only visible changes in the University
Library. Something big is missing in
the library—the monstrous, and now
outdated, card catalog. Actually, those
imposing wooden cases and the thou-
sands of 3x5 cards aren’t missing.
They’ve just been hidden away. And
the staff at the law library is looking for
a place to hide theirs, too. ‘The card
catalog has gone the way of the type-
writer—functional, but not optimal. W&L
now has joined many other colleges,
universities, and major libraries in the
new age of automation.

Like most colleges across the
country, Washington and Lee, through
acquisitions and gifts, has amassed an
impressive collection, especially for a
school its size. The University Library’s
collection numbers approximately
400,000 volumes and the law library is
approaching 285,000 volumes. In addi-
tion to the two main libraries, other
volumes are spread across campus in
the journalism, chemistry, physics, and
geology departments and in the Com-
merce School.

Recently, accessibility has become
more important than the size of a uni-
versity’s collection. With new computer
and telecommunication technology,
libraries now have access to data bases
containing information about millions of
books and other materials held by
colleges across the country. The time
had come for Washington and Lee to
take the big step toward automation.
Easy access to its own holdings, as well
as those from other libraries, has
become the number one priority among
librarians and faculty.

It has been a big step, not only in
actual physical preparation, but in finan-
cialcommitment from the University. The

total expenditure for setting up the
new automated system is approxi-
mately $658,000, and the projected
annual maintenance of the system
is $40,000. The decision to pro-
ceed with the new system came
after thorough research by a com-
mittee of librarians and faculty
from both the undergraduate and
law school, with support from the
administration.

Automation of the university
libraries was, in fact, part
of W&L’s Institutional Long-
Range Plan. In the summer of
1989, an ad-hoc library committee
was appointed, and over the next
year, the committee conducted an
in-depth study on library automa-
tion through research, attendance
at several conferences, and site visits
to other campus libraries where
systems had been installed. After
narrowing the field of 20 leading
system vendors to four, subse-
quent vendor demonstrations on
campus, and visits to sites where
those systems were in use, the committee
made a unanimous recommendation to
President John D. Wilson to purchase the
new system from Innovative Interfaces,
Inc., a Berkeley, Calif., company whose
sole business remains library automation.

Innovative systems have been se-
lected or installed at most law schools that
have automated systems (including Yale,
Virginia, Tulane, Georgetown, Columbia
and Berkeley), and it is in place at under-
graduate libraries at Bates College, Boston
University, Claremont College, Dartmouth,
Haverford, Oberlin, Rutgers, Swarthmore,
and Williams, just to mention a few.

And what will this all mean to library
users? Well, they won’t be using the card
catalog any more. Computer terminals
with access to the on-line catalog have
been set up in both libraries where the
card catalogs used to be located. Instead
of spending tedious time searching through
those little index cards for material on a
topic (and just about having to know an
author’s name or title of a book), a student ,
or faculty member, can sit at a terminal
and punch in a subject or key word and

 

get a list of all titles (books, periodicals,
etc.) held in the W&L libraries that
have information on that subject. ‘The
system also will list which library and
what shelf the books are on, whether or
not the book is checked out or at the
bindery, when it’s due to be returned,
and what additional titles are on order
on that subject. And the student won’t
have to sit there and write all this down.
The computer terminals will print out
all of this information, even in biblio-
graphic form, if desired.

And that’s just the beginning.
When students or faculty members
check out books with the University
Card (an electronic identification card
used for all purchases and services on
campus) a scanner will read the barcode
on the back of the book and record all of
the check-out information. Returned
books will also be scanned, getting books
back on the shelves faster than before.

Another feature of the automated
system is designed for course assignments.
Professors and students will have access
through the same terminals to reserved

book lists for courses.

While the computerized card
catalog will be the most visible
change as the libraries move into
the automated system, there are
important benefits that the Inno-
vative system provides behind
the scenes. When Innovative’s
Acquisitions and Serials Control
Module was designed at the
Berkeley Law School, it handled
the complexity of legal materials
so successfully that its flexibility
for other types of serials set a stan-
dard far superior to other systems.

“No other system comes
close in the quality of serials con-
trol,” said Wiant. “We will now
be able to provide a new era in the
level of services to our faculty and
students, which in turn, will in-
crease faculty and student output.”

Another important asset is
accessibility. Faculty members
whose buildings are connected to
the campus network will have
direct access to the on-line
catalog from their offices. In the near
future, students and faculty will have
access through terminals in other
campus buildings and will even be able
to call into the system from off-campus
locations. When neighboring Virginia
Military Institute completes its library
automation system, W&L students and
faculty also will have electronic access
to its catalog and 300,000 volumes.

Moving into an automated system
has taken years of preparation. The
two libraries have gradually been putting
all of their bibliographic records into
machine-readable form. ‘This conver-
sion has taken several years to complete,
but the result is that all of the libraries’
holdings will be in the on-line catalog
on the day the system is installed.

Installation of wiring in the Uni-
versity Library took a good part of the
summer. Old wiring was removed to
make way for new networking. In the
law library, where major networking
had already been completed, additional
wiring was needed to accomodate the
new system.

W&L 19

 

The most labor-
intensive project—at-
taching barcode stick-
ers on to the backs of
all the books and
bound periodicals in
the university’s col-
lections—began taking
place last summer.

In the University
Library, where virtu-
ally every book was
barcoded (except
some of the rare books
in Special Collec-
tions), this was a mon-
umental task. Over
the summer, every
member of the library
staff helped with the
barcoding project.
‘Twelve students were
employed and as-
signed to teams with
staff members.

Both head librar-
ians, Brown and
Wiant, anticipate in-
creased use of both
collections on both
sides of campus. I[n-
formation frequently
is needed in a wide
array of subjects, and
easy access to both
collections will elimi-
nate duplicate acqui-
sitions. “It’s a visible
way of bridging the gap

 

Stuckey plans
computer’s future at W&L

Jonn Stuckey, new director of university computing at Washington
and Lee, likes what he sees in the University's computer philosophy, and
he sees no reason for that to change.

“The stability and efficiency of W&L’s administrative computer
support is as good as any I’ve seen,” says Stuckey, who has served as a
consultant on academic computing issues to a number of colleges and
large universities. “But as usage increases, the system will outgrow the
computer in a few years. And bigger may not be better.”

Although Stuckey recognizes the need for growth in the University’s
computer system, he foresees going to a number of integrated smaller
systems instead of depending on one large computer system to meet all
of the needs on campus.

Growth in the campus network system will be a priority. “There are
ways of staying in touch electronically,” he says. “Moving computer
activities to where people work, instead of moving people to where the
computers are located, can increase productivity and satisfaction.
Having access to all that information at your desk opens up Communica-
tion to the world.”

Compared to some institutions, W&L has lagged behind in computer.
use. Stuckey, who comes to Lexington from Boston, where he was
director of academic computing at Northeastern University, believes that
is changing. “The new automated library system which is being installed
at Washington and Lee is reputed to be the finest on the market,” said
Stuckey. He will be working closely with the library staff as the system is
installed and networking continues through campus.

With all its computer communication, electronic mail, etc., will all
personal contact on campus be a thing of the past? Will the University
only be communicating through computer screens?

“Absolutely not,” says Stuckey, who also has been a director of
computing at Carnegie Mellon. “Searching through the card catalog
has not traditionally been a social activity. The time saved using com-
puter technology permits more time for human interaction. Anything can
become a compulsion. That doesn’t mean we should resist technology.”

his area. “We will be
able to easily and
quickly incorporate the
frequent changes in
terminology in law
publications, and
allow users access to
the most current
information about our
holdings,” he said.
Subscriptions,
license fees, and access
to data bases are all
very costly. As stu-
dent demand for in-
formation increases,
these needs go be-
yond the walls of the
library, putting finan-
cial strains on library
budgets. Borrowing
materials from other
libraries for W&L
students and faculty
has increased over
100 percent in the
past five years. ‘The
largest expenditure of
the University Library’s
budget is for acquisi-
tions, approximately
$680,000 per year.
“Some college
libraries have had to
fund the ongoing cost
of their automated
systems out of their
acquisitions budgets, “
said Brown. “We do

 

 

between the two cam-
puses,” said Wiant.

Washington and Lee did not jump
on the automation bandwagon too quickly.
“The advantage of being one of the later
schools to automate its library is that we
were not buying an un-tried product,”
said Brown. “We were able to pick an
established vendor whose modules were
working in libraries similar to ours.”

David Badertscher, who came to
the University Library in 1988 as head
of technical services, is the automation
project manager. He was head of serials at
the University of Virginia Library from

20 W&L

1986 to 1988, when they were preparing
for their automated system. Prior to
that, he was head of technical services
at VMI’s library.

“Everybody on the committee unani-
mously agreed on the Innovative system,”
he said. “We liked the way it ran, its
ease of use, and it was the right size
system for us. ‘The administration was
very generous in giving us the freedom
to get what we wanted.”

Jack Bissett, the law library’s cata-
loging librarian for 10 years, looks for-
ward to having the new technology in

not expect to have to
do that, but we do anticipate using a
larger percentage of our funds to provide
access to material held remotely.”

‘The timetable for the system
module installation is to have the on-line
catalog available to the public by No-
vember, in the circulation department
by February 1992, and then to have more
information services in the future,” said
Badertscher. “This is not a ‘one-shot’
expenditure, we will want to add system
enhancements that are already available,
and other features that will be intro-
duced in the future.”

 

 

tek

 

‘THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

ALC

W. Barlow Newbolt, professor of phystes, leads WEL

 

1 a ea

   
 
  

President John D. Wilson (left), Unrversity of Notre Dame
President Rev. Edward A. Malloy, and the WEL faculty

to opening convocation in September.

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

Class of 1995 arrives

for orientation

Entering freshmen at
Washington and Lee arrived
on campus in September and
continued two W&L tradi-
tions: orientation and excel-
lence.

‘The Class of 1995 repre-
sents a broad range of accomp-
lishments and diversity. Four-
hundred twenty-three men
and women make up this year’s
class of freshmen and included in
that number are 32 National
Merit Scholarship finalists.
‘The Class of 1995 also fea-
tures 34 students who finished
first or second in their high
school graduating class. Dis-
tinguishing themselves in
student government, the
freshman group includes 48
members who served as stu-
dent body or class president or
vice-president. Members of

 

 

Bray to begin work in

WEL residence life

‘The Office of the Dean of
Students at Washington and
Lee has named Christopher J.
Bray, 91, to the new position
of administrative assistant for
residence life.

Bray will be responsible
for enhancing the University’s
residence life program. His
primary responsibilities will
include programming for
W&L’s residence halls, with
secondary tasks to include
coordinating the room applica-
tion process. He will also
assist In assigning rooms, con-
ducting fire safety procedures,
and directing a year-end
inspection of the dormitories.

Bray, from Dunwoody,
Ga., graduated with a B.A. in
journalism. While at W&L,
he was a resident assistant in
Gaines Hall dormitory from

 

the Fourth Estate also were Seniors gathered to line the walkway to Lee Chapel in September for 1989-91. He was also a dorm

represented as this year’s class
includes 47 individuals who

the traditional procession at opening convocation.

counselor for three years in
the Summer Scholars program

were editors of their high school newspaper, yearbook, or literary magazine. ‘The athletic fields also at W&L, and was named head
were represented as the Class of 1995 features 91 varsity team captains. On the geographic front, this counselor his final year.
year’s freshmen represent 40 states or territories, seven foreign countries, and 338 secondary schools. Bray was also a co-founder
‘Two-thirds of the class attended public schools. of Live Drive, a student-run
‘The orientation process included a number of special events. In addition to the usual welcome organization that provides safe
by President Wilson and the traditional meeting with the faculty advisor, the taking of placement rides to students; a concert-
tests, and the registering for classes, orientation featured an Alumni Association-sponsored freshman — master and clarinetist for the
barbeque, an Adopt-a-Freshman dinner, and a seminar discussion on the subject “Responsible University Wind Ensemble;
Behavior: Discussions of Substance Abuse, Date Rape, Sexual Assault, and Related Issues.” jazz director at WLUR-FM; a
Classes began at W&L on Sept. 12, with opening convocation held in Lee Chapel. ‘The Rev. reporter for 7he Ring-tum Phi;
Edward A. Malloy, president of the University of Notre Dame, was the special guest speaker at the and an editor and anchorperson

opening convocation.

Extra copies of alumni directory available

‘The 1991 edition of the Washington and Lee University
Alumni Directory has been sent to all alumni who ordered the
book, but the Alumni Office does have a limited supply of extra
copies that may be purchased by contacting the office.

‘The book contains a complete listing of all W&L alumni
from the first class at Liberty Hall Academy in 1749 through the
class of 1991. Living alumni are listed with their business and
residence addresses, and the book also contains alumni listings
by class year and geographical location.

All alumni who are interested in purchasing a copy of the direc-
tory should send a check or money order for $43 payable to the
Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va.
24450. Checks are to be made payable to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc.

for Cable Channel Nine.

Alumni Career Assistance Program
earns placement award

Washington and Lee’s Alumni Career Assistance Program
recently received an award at the College Placement Council’s
1991 Awards of Excellence competition.

N. Rick Heatley, director of career services and associate dean
of students for the University, received an honorable mention for
the program, which uses a strong network of alumni volunteers and
provides expanded and personal career services to students.
Heatley has directed W&L’s career program since 1987.

‘The College Placement Council is the national association for
career planning, placement, and employment professionals and is
the leading resource for information about the college-educated
work force.

 

_| & PAGE 22/THE

GAZ ie Os]

 

 

 

 

Annual Fund breaks record for
6th straight year

Washington and Lee’s 1990-91 Annual Fund set new records
for contributions to the University for the sixth consecutive year.

The Annual Fund, which consists only of unrestricted gifts
to be used for the University’s current operating budget, raised
$2,170,928, a new record for the University and a 5.38 percent
increase over last year’s fund.

‘The total number of alumni, parents, and friends contribut-
ing to the fund was 6,982. ‘The number of Washington and Lee
alumni who contributed was 6,300. A 5.47 percent increase in the
number of contributing parents reached a record 559.

“A gift to the Annual Fund is the most direct way for one to
ensure that Washington and Lee fulfills its commitment to provide
an outstanding education for the young men and women who
have chosen to study here,” said Lex O. McMillan III, executive
director of development. “We are profoundly grateful to all those
who have contributed to another record-setting year.”

Gifts from alumni totaled a record $2,003,761, a 5.34 percent
increase from last year. ‘he largest increase in gifts came from
current parents of Washington and Lee students, who contributed a
record $90,318, an increase of 17.8 percent from last year.

A record number of major donors contributed to this year’s
Annual Fund. ‘There were 26 members of the General’s Council,
whose gifts are $10,000 or more, and their combined contribution
was a record $393,783 to the Annual Fund. Gifts to the George
Washington Associates, a new donor club with gifts of $5,000 or
more, were $145,674. Gifts from the Lee Associates, who donate
$1,000 or more, rose to $773,909 from 572 donors.

‘The chairman of this year’s Annual Fund was Mason T. New,
62, managing partner of Branch Cabell & Co. of Richmond.

Cronin, 84, named to

Annual Fund post

Peter Cronin, 84, director
of development at Worcester
(Mass.) Academy, was
appointed director of the
Annual Fund at the Univer-
sity this summer. He began
his duties July 15.

“I am delighted that Peter
is joining us as director of the
Annual Fund,” said Lex O.
McMillan III, executive direc-
tor of development at Washing-
ton and Lee. “He brings a
solid record of experience and
achievement that will serve
him well as he takes up this
important work for Washing-
ton and Lee.”

As director of the Annual
Fund, Cronin’s primary respon-
sibility is to design and exe-
cute successful strategies for
obtaining unrestricted gifts
from alumni, parents, and
friends in support of the Uni-
versity’s Current operating
budget. Cronin will work
closely with class agents and
other volunteers in providing

 

 

 

 

 

 

a. oO

| © THBSGAZETTE) PAGES

fe

J

 

ongoing support for the
Annual Fund. He also will
participate fully in planning
the University’s comprehen-
sive fund-raising program.

A 1980 graduate of Wor-
cester Academy, Cronin
returned there in 1985 as a
publications assistant and photo-
grapher. He served as assistant
director of alumni relations from
1986 to 1988 when he was
named acting director, and then
director of development.

After receiving a bache-
lor’s degree in geology and art
from W&L, Cronin did gra-
duate work in visual commu-
nications at Ohio University.

ro
1 a

Slow progress continues to be made on the restoration of Old George in the Birmingham, Ala., studio of sculptor Branco Medenica. The
8-foot-tall folk statue is expected to return to Lexington this spring. The original wooden statue will be displayed on campus, while a
bronze replica—painted white—will be placed atop Washington Hall.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lexington weather record-keeping honored by National Weather Service

For the last 130 years, the city of Lexington in conjunction with Washington and Lee Univer-
sity and Virginia Military Institute have provided a constant source of weather records and information.
‘That effort was honored by a special ceremony at Lee Chapel in July, presided over by Gray Castle,
"53, °55L, deputy under secretary for oceans and atmosphere at the National Oceanic and Atmo-

spheric Administration.

W&L, VMI and the city of Lexington share the distinction of maintaining the longest and most
complete weather records in the commonwealth of Virginia. As well, the weather records coming
out of Lexington are the fifth-oldest in the nation.

Research conducted by the National Weather Service indicates that besides maintaining the
longest and most complete weather records in the commonwealth, the weather records from Lex-
ington are over 90 percent complete from 1861 and 100 percent complete for the last 100 years.

John Lyle Campbell, class of 1843, began making weather observations in 1861, and the process
was continued by his son Harry Donald Campbell until 1904, when the work was transferred to VMI.

“The significance of a continuous source of weather information is not exclusively scientific,”
Castle said. “Farmers, businessmen, and the general public benefit in myriad ways from these
cumulative statistics gathered over the course of many years.”

W&L, Lexington

featured in Colonial Homes

The striking architecture
of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity and Lexington, Va., has
long been a source of pride for
W&L alumni. Now, one of
the nation’s leading architectural
publications, Co/onial Homes,
has recognized the beauty of
this small Virginia town and its
equally idyllic college.

‘The October issue of
the magazine, which hit the
newstands in late August,
features a 34-page spread on
the city of Lexington and

Washington and Lee.
‘The section includes stories
and color photos detailing the
19th-century architecture of
the University and the city.
‘The pages are separated into
sections on the city of Lexing-
ton, Washington and Lee,
Washington and Lee’s Morris
House, the Jackson House, the
Wilson-Walker House, and two
private homes, Stonegate and
Beaumont.

‘Two Washington and Lee
alumni were responsible for

   
   

the section on
~ Lexington. Robert
Mottley, ’64, associate
editor of Colonial Homes, con-
ceived and oversaw the project.
Gordon Beall, ’70, a free-lance
architecture photographer, shot
the photographs for the spread.
Reprints of the section are
available for $2 by contacting
the W&L Office of Communi-
cations, Reid Hall, Washington
and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Va. 24450.

 

oe

 

ute, e

PAGE 24/ THE

 

 

W&L administrator
listed in Who’s Who

Anece F. McCloud,
associate dean of students for
minority and international
affairs at Washington and
Lee, has been listed in Who’s
Who in the South and Southwest.

McCloud recently
returned to W&L from a
year’s leave of absence at the
State University of New York
in Binghamton. She was
awarded a Clifford D. Clark
Graduate Fellowship for the
1990-91 school year in order
to pursue her doctorate in
sociology.

McCloud came to W&L
in 1985. Prior to that she was
the director of minority
student affairs at the Univer-
sity of Nebraska Medical
Center. A native of Dudley,
N.C., McCloud holds a
bachelor’s degree from
Benedict College and a
master’s degree from the
University of Nebraska at
Omaha. She is also listed in
Who’s Who Among Black
Americans.

McCloud is a member of
the American Association for
Higher Education; the
National Association of
Women Deans, Administra-
tors, and Counselors; the
National Association of
Foreign Student Affairs; the
Association of American
Medical Colleges; and the
American Association for
Counseling and Development.

 

 

GAZETTE # |

 

i ae ee

hile

 

 

 

What really happened to Robert E. Lee?

Generations of admirers of Robert
E. Lee have clung to certain cherished
stories about his life—his devotion to
duty, his devout religious faith, his noble
acceptance of defeat. But just as important
was the compelling tale of his death.

Now, was it really true? Lee was a
general to the very end, so the story goes.
As he lay dying, the great leader was be-
lieved to have said, “Tell Hill he must come
up!” and, finally, “Strike the tent.” It cer-
tainly was a glorious end for a grand man.

‘The legendary story was initiated by
Douglas Southall Freeman, the Pulitzer
Prize-winning biographer of Lee. As
'reeman reasoned, Lee must have been
imagining himself in the middle of a Civil
War battle. In his delirium, he was

summoning Lt. Gen. A.P. Hill and was
ordering his tent to be taken down.
Freeman included the story in his bio-
graphy of Lee, and from there, it has made
its way into Southern legend.

But recently scholars have wondered
whether Lee said anything at all, if, in
fact, he could speak. An article published
in The Virginia Magazine of History and
Biography suggests that Lee may have
suffered a rare stroke that took away his
will to speak.

The article, titled “R.E. Lee’s
Stroke,” was written by a team of five
authors, including two neurologists, a
speech pathologist, and the chairman of
the department of Medicine at Duke
University. The fifth author is Erin

Foley, a special collections librarian at the
Minneapolis Public Library and former
special collections librarian at Washington
and Lee.

Lee had a long history of heart
disease, the writers say. On the night of
Sept. 28, 1870, he walked home in the
rain from a vestry meeting at the
Episcopal Church. He took his place at
the family supper table and tried to say
grace, but no words came. His family
placed him on a cot and summoned
doctors.

During the next two weeks, Lee was
able to speak and to move, but he seemed
lethargic. Unfortunately, heavy rains cut
off Lexington from surrounding areas and
prevented any medical specialists from
reaching the general’s sickbed. He was
treated instead by two local general
practitioners. Only they, members of the
family, and a friend—Professor William
Preston Johnston—were permitted to see
him. He finally died two weeks after that
walk home in the rain.

After piecing together detailed
reports left by Lee’s doctors and the
recollections of his family, the authors of
the magazine article concluded that Lee
suffered a stroke that caused a rare
condition called “abulia.” ‘The term
literally means, “absence of will.” Lee
was perfectly able to speak and to move,
but he had no inclination to do so.

Furthermore, the stroke impaired his
ability to cough. His well-meaning family
and physicians gave him food and liquids
that settled in his lungs and caused the
pneumonia that eventually killed him.

It is unlikely, the researchers believe,
that Lee ever made the famous deathbed
speeches that have been attributed to
him. Those speeches were reported only
by Professor Johnston. None of Lee’s
other companions during his last days
ever alluded to them.

Lee’s health problems have attracted
a good bit of attention, lately, says Virginia
Smyers, Washington and Lee’s special
collections librarian.

“Since we don’t have the patient here
with us and only 19th-century letters and
medical reports to go by, we'll never be
able to know positively the cause of Lee’s
death,” she says. “But it’s still interesting
to speculate. Lee remains a kind of saint
figure, and there will always be a lot of
people working on his life and death.”

—Anne Coulling

 

THE GAZETT E/ PAGE 25

 

 

 

 

 

 

\< i

 

_

 

Among the new members of the W&L faculty are (seated from left) Thomas P. Urbach, philosophy; Kary D. Smout, English; Marshall Boswell,

 

 

 

English; Florinda Ruiz, Spanish; Elizabeth Oliver, accounting; and Jarvis Hall, politics; and (standing from left) Bill Oliver, English; Louise E.
Teitz, law; Roger Crockett, German; Krysztof Jasiewicz, sociology; Alison Kitch, law; John L. Harer, mathematics; Barbara A. Clark, romance
languages; John Stuckey, university computing; Phillip A. Gates, religion; and Richard T. Cerone, physical education and athletics.

Trustees approve faculty
promotions

Several members of the Washington
and Lee faculty received promotions at
the end of the academic year.

Promoted to full professor were Sam
Calhoun (law), Roger Dean (administra-
tion), A.G. Fralin (romance languages),
Carl Kaiser (economics), Roger Crockett
(romance languages), John Harer (mathe-
matics), Scott Sundby (law), and Edwin
Yoder (journalism, see p. 24).

Promoted to the rank of associate
professor were Gwyn Campbell (romance
languages), Gwen Handelman (law), John
Lambeth (romance languages), Kenneth
Lambert (computer science), ‘Tyler Lorig
(psychology), Kathleen Olson-Janjic (art),
Cinda Rankin (physical education), Michael
Smitka (economics), and Kenneth Van
Ness (physics and engineering).

Calhoun joined the W&L faculty in
1978. He received his B.A. from Harvard
and his J.D. from the University of Georgia
School of Law.

Dean received a Bachelor of Com-
merce and an M.B.A. from the University
of Queensland. He earned his Ph.D. from
Michigan State University. He has been a

member of the faculty at W&L for the
last seven years.

Fralin received his B.A. from
Randolph-Macon and his M.A. and his
doctorate from the University of North
Carolina in Chapel Hill. He joined the
W&L faculty in 1975.

Kaiser is a graduate of the University
of Illinois with a B.S., and received his M.A.
from the University of ‘Vexas-El Paso and
his Ph.D. from Washington University in
St. Louis. He came to W&L in 1979.

Crockett received his B.A. from Wake
Forest University and his M.A. and Ph.D.
from the University of Illinois. He is in his
second year as a member of the W&L
faculty.

Harer earned a B.A. from Haverford
and received his Ph.D. from the Univer-
sity of California-Berkeley. He came to
W&L this year.

Sundby graduated with a B.A. from
Vanderbilt and received his J.D. from the
Cornell Law School. He joined the
W&L faculty in the fall of 1990.

Campbell received her B.A. from
McMaster University and her M.A. and
Ph.D. from Princeton. She has taught at
W&L since 1985.

Handelman received her B.A. and
J.D. degrees from the University of

Michigan. She has been an assistant
professor of law at W&L since 1986.

Lambeth has taught French at W&L
since 1985. A graduate of Davidson with a
B.A. in French, he received his Ph.D.
from the University of Florida.

Lambert has taught at W&L since
1985. He received his B.A. in philosophy
from Bucknell University, his Ph.D. in
philosophy from Rutgers University, and
his M.S. in computer science from Wright
State University.

Lorig received his B.A. from Georgia
Southwestern College. He earned his M.A.
and Ph.D. degrees from the University of
Georgia. He has been at W&L since 1988.

Olson-Janjic has been at W&L since
1987. She received her B.A. from the Uni-
versity of California-Berkeley, and her
M.F.A. from the Yale University School
of Painting.

Smitka received his A.B. from
Harvard and his Ph.D. from Yale. He
joined the W&L faculty in 1986.

Van Ness received his B.S. from
Bucknell University and his Ph.D. from
Rutgers. He has been at W&L since 1986.

Rankin received her B.A. and M.A.
from Humboldt State University in Califor-
nia. She has been assistant athletic direc-
tor at W&L since 1985.

 

PAGE 26/ THE GAZETTE

fe

j

 

 

 

OT 17

Yoder named to
journalism faculty

Pulitzer Prize-winning
journalist Edwin M. Yoder
will join the faculty at Wash-
ington and Lee University
this January, W&L officials
announced this summer.

Yoder, who has written
a syndicated column for ‘The
Washington Post Writers
Group since 1982, has been
named professor of journal-
ism, filling the post held by
the late Clark R. Mollenhoff.

A native North Carolinian,
Yoder is a graduate of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill and Oxford Uni-
versity, England, where he
was a Rhodes Scholar. He
began his newspaper career
as an editorial writer for 7he
Charlotte News in 1958, was
editorial page editor of 7he
Greensboro Daily News from
1965-75, and associate editor
and editorial page editor of 7he
Washington Star from 1975-81.
He was awarded a Pulitzer
Prize for editorial writing in
1979. His special interests
include U.S. political institu-
tions, the South, the Supreme

 

 

Court, and American and
European history.

Yoder is the author of
The Night of the Old South Ball,
published in 1984, and 7he
Unmaking of a Whig and Other
Essays, published in 1990. He
has written for a number of
magazines, including Harper’s,
Saturday Review, National
Review, The New Republic, and
Virginia Quarterly Review. His
syndicated column appears in
approximately 70 newspapers
around the country.

Yoder, who received the
Distinguished Alumnus Award
from North Carolina, is on the
board of the Fund for Investiga-
tive Journalism and is a member
of the Council of the Institute
for Early American History and
Culture in Williamsburg, Va.

Old Book Comes Home

An autograph book that made its way around the class of 1874
and then moved around the country as a keepsake from one
family to another returned to Lexington this summer thanks to
the diligence of one Anne-Marie Bryan.

Ms. Bryan came to W&L in August to return the book and
research its contents with University Historian and Professor of
History ‘l'aylor Sanders.

“This is a pilgrimage, as far as I’m concerned,” Bryan said.
“This book has found its home.”

It’s been a long time coming. The book was given to Bryan’s
sister as a gift and has traveled with the family from Kansas City,
Mo., to Washington, D.C., in the ensuing 40 years. In Washing-
ton, Bryan’s sister’s physician just happened be Dr. Daniel V.
Young, 81. Young helped Bryan with the research, and he offi-
cially presented the autograph book to the University in September.

Bryan traveled to Lexington to check on the names and
histories of the book’s 73 signatures, including that of Robert E.
Lee. Lee’s presence in the book—he died in 1870, four years
before many of the signatures are dated—is just one of the
mysteries of the autograph book. Others include what certain
terms like “bosses and ham” mean and what certain abbrevia-
tions represent. The names in the book represent 16 states and
two countries, and while some of the messages are written in
Greek, there is one written in Japanese.

Most of the signatures have been identified, but one lasting
mystery continues. Just whose book is it anyway?

A few clues have been determined. ‘The owner apparently
was a member of the Washington Literary Society and also Kappa
Sigma Kappa fraternity. He might have been on the Albert
Sydney crew. He also played a good deal of bridge, was not
terribly proficient in Latin and Greek, and roomed at a boarding
house known as the Blue Hotel. The leading candidate is a
Walter H. Hoffman, class of 1876, who is the only member of the
Albert Sydney crew whose name does not appear in the book.

Litzenburg named assistant to president

‘Thomas V. Litzenburg Jr., °57, former president of Salem College, was appointed assis-
tant to the president at Washington and Lee this summer. He began his duties in July.

Litzenburg, who was president at Salem College from 1982 to 1990, comes to
W&L from a stint as a resident at the National Humanities Center in the North Carolina
Research Triangle. From 1981-82, he served as executive director of policy for the Asso-
ciation of American Universities. From 1975 to 1981, he worked for the National Endow-
ment for the Humanities, serving as assistant chairman (1979-81), special assistant to the
chairman (1977-78), and program officer for the division of public programs (1975-77).

As a member of the faculty at Wells College from 1964 to 1974, Litzenburg taught
philosophy and religion, served as chaplain, and was special assistant to the president
during Wilson’s tenure at the New York school.

“I think we are fortunate to have this opportunity to appoint a W&L graduate and a
man who has considerable experience in higher education and fund-raising to work for
the University,” Wilson said.

After receiving the bachelor of arts degree from W&L, Litzenburg earned the
bachelor of divinity from Yale University, and master’s and doctorate degrees from
Princeton University. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa in 1957.

 

| “

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 27 #

 

 

 

 

 

J-School professor
earns C-SPAN grant

Robert J. de Maria, a
member of the Washington
and Lee journalism faculty
since 1977, has been awarded a
$350 faculty development
grant by the C-SPAN cable
television network.

‘The grant was made in
conjunction with de Maria’s

 

 

recent participation in the C-
SPAN in the Classroom seminar
held in Washington, D.C., in
June. C-SPAN will enable de
Maria to obtain videotapes
and catalogs for teaching or
research projects from the
Public Affairs Video Archives
of C-SPAN programming,
housed at Purdue University.
‘Tapes of all C-SPAN programs
that have been aired since
1987 are recorded and indexed
at the Archives, which exclu-
sively serves the academic
community.

De Maria, promoted to
the rank of full professor in
1989, teaches teleproduction,
broadcast writing, broadcast
reporting, broadcast program-
ming and management, and
documentary film history and
criticism. In addition to
teaching, he serves as faculty
general manager for WLUR-
FM and Cable Channel Nine,
the campus radio and televi-
sion stations.

 

 

Need a score?

Call the H-O-T-L-I-N-E

Ever have trouble tracking down a Washington and
Lee sports score? Well, you needn’t worry anymore.
‘The W&L sports information department has installed a
sports hotline to provide you with up-to-date scores and
information about all of W&L’s 21 athletic teams.

‘The hotline will be updated with each Generals’
contest and will include a rundown of all current teams’
schedules, records, and results. In addition, detailed
information about recent games is made available.

‘The hotline has been provided through a gift from
Jack Baizley, ’70, owner of University Sportwear, a sports
apparel store in downtown Lexington.

‘The number for the hotline is (703) 463-8998. ‘The

recorded message is available 24 hours a day.

 

 

Moore presents W&L with Lee lithograph

Oliver S. Moore of Raleigh, N.C., has presented Washington
and Lee with a lithograph autographed by Robert E. Lee.

The lithograph was given to Captain Oliver Perry Shell on
March 30, 1870, by Lee on his last trip to Warrenton, N.C., to
visit the grave of his daughter, Annie. Shell, who had served
with General Lee during the Civil War, was the great-grandfather
and namesake of Oliver Shell Moore. Lee apparently gave the
print to Shell in return for his hospitality during the trip to Warren-
ton. The lithograph has remained in the Shell family ever since.

Moore, a friend of the University, was born in Danville, Va.,
and raised in Raleigh. He graduated from Hardbargers Business
College in Raleigh and also graduated from the Executive Program
of the Business School of the University of North Carolina. He
was a senior accountant with the state of North Carolina, was with
the FBI, and served as senior auditor with the U.S. General Ac-
counting Office. He later accepted a position with a wholesale
mechanical supply company where he was the first salesman to
sell a million dollars’ worth of material in one year. Over the years, he
rose to branch manager, corporate vice president, executive vice
president, and finally president, from which he retired to establish
his own corporation.

Connelly earns
congressional grant

William F. Connelly,
associate professor of politics
at Washington and Lee, was
among 15 writers, researchers,
scholars, political scientists,
and graduate students to
receive a grant this summer
through the Dirksen Congres-
sional Center. ‘The grants
ranged from $500 to $2,500
and support the U.S. Congress
and congressional leadership.

‘The Dirksen Center is a
non-profit, non-partisan re-
search institution that sponsors
grants, awards, and educational
programs to promote a better
understanding of the U.S.
Congress and its leaders.

Connelly received the
grant for his research on “The
Permanent Minority Status of
House Republicans.” A mem-
ber of the Washington and Lee
faculty since 1986, Connelly
teaches courses in the American
political process, Congress
and the legislative process,
and constitutional law and the
judicial process. He is also

 

director of the University’s
Washington, D.C., term
program and internships.

‘The Dirksen Center gave
its first research grant in 1975
and since then has provided
over $180,000 to 135 con-
gressional research projects.
Funding for the 1991 program
is provided by the Everett
McKinley Dirksen Endowment
Fund with partial support for
leadership projects provided by
the Ford Foundation through
the Congressional Leadership
Research Project.

 

ae

 

“i Migaaageane

® PAGE 28/THE GAZETTE # |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WA&L grads included in new
athletic department hirings

Washington and Lee Athletic Director
Mike Walsh recently announced the
hiring of five coaching interns and a new
assistant coach for the 1991-92 school year,
and included in the group is a trio of W&L
graduates.

Joining the staff are Dick Cerone, ’82,
who will be an assistant football coach and
assistant professor of physical education,
John Herndon, ’85, who will be a graduate

 

 

assistant in basketball and baseball, and
Michael Nunan, ’89, who will assist in
men’s lacrosse. Also named to intern

 

 

 

 

positions were ‘Todd Gibby in men’s
soccer, Shari Krasnoo in women’s soccer
and lacrosse, and John Morrison in water
polo and swimming.

Cerone, a three-year letterman with
the Generals a decade ago, was a two-year
starter and member of W&L’s Old Domi-
nion Athletic Conference championship
team in 1981. Cerone earned his master’s
degree from Tulane, where he helped
coach the Green Wave to the 1987 Inde-
pendence Bowl. He comes to W&L from
St. Thomas More School in Connecticut,
where he was head football coach and
director of athletics.

Herndon played two years of basket-
ball for the Generals under current head
coach Verne Canfield. He comes to W&L
from Episcopal High School in Houston,
where he served as head basketball and
golf coach for the last two years. He also
served as an assistant basketball, baseball,
and soccer coach at Christ School in Arden,
N.C., from 1985 to 1988.

Nunan was a four-year starter in
lacrosse for the Generals, earning the team’s
most valuable player award as a senior.
He was named All-Old Dominion Athletic
Conference and honorable mention All-
America that year, as well. Last year, Nunan
served as an assistant lacrosse and soccer
coach at Clarkson University. Clarkson
earned a bid to the NCAA lacrosse tourna-
ment for the first time in school history last
year, while the soccer team received a bid to the ECAC Playoffs.

Gibby is a 1991 graduate of Dartmouth, where he was a
three-year letterwinner in soccer and lacrosse. In soccer, he
received the Norman Grant Clark Award, given to the player
who has contributed the most to Dartmouth soccer. Last year,
Dartmouth was ranked seventh in the nation and reached the
NCAA quarterfinals.

Krasnoo is a 1991 graduate of Colgate, where she was a four-
time All-America selection in lacrosse and was named the Patriot
League Player of the Year in soccer in 1990. Krasnoo, who served

 

 

Krasnoo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Morrison

as captain of both teams, is Colgate’s all-time leading scorer in
both sports and led the nation in goals per game in lacrosse in
1989 and 1990. She was also a member of the United States
women’s lacrosse team in 1989 and 1990.
Morrison is a 1991 graduate of the University of North

Jarolina-Chapel Hill, where he was a four-year letterman for
the Tar Heels’ swimming team. Morrison was a member of two
Atlantic Coast Conference championship teams (1988 and 1989)
and received the team’s Unsung Hero Award in 1990. Morrison

‘

also played two years for UNC’s club water polo team.

 

| Se

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 29

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1991-92

 

 

 

We&L WINTER SPORTS SCHEDULES

BASKETBALL

Nov. 22-23

Nov. 26
Nov. 30
Dec. 6-7

Dec. 10
Jan. 34

Jan. 8
Jan. 11
Jan. 15
Jan. 18
Jan. 21
Jan. 24
Jan. 27
Jan. 29
Feb. 1
Feb. 5
Feb. 8
Feb. 12
Feb. 15
Feb. 17
Feb. 19
Feb. 22
Feb. 25

Feb. 28-29

 

W&L TIP-OFF TOURNAMENT
(Sewanee, Wooster, Onconta St., W&L)

at Hampden-Sydney

at Bridgewater

HOME

7:30 p.m.
2:00 p.m.

at Washington Univ. (St. Louis) Tournament AWAY

(M.L'T., Pomona-Pitzer, W&L, Washington)

EMORY & HENRY

W&L INVITATIONAL
(Bowdoin, Colorado College, Gettysburg, W&L)
VIRGINIA WESLEYAN
GUILFORD

at Lynchburg

at Randolph-Macon
EASTERN MENNONITE
BRIDGEWATER

at Emory & Henry
HAMPDEN-SYDNEY
ROANOKE

at Virginia Wesleyan

at Guilford

LYNCHBURG

at Roanoke

at Mary Washington

at Eastern Mennonite
RANDOLPH-MACON
ODAC Quarterfinals (TBA)
ODAC Final Four (Salem, Va.)

7:30 p.m.
HOME

7:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
3:00 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m
7:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
8:00 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
3:00 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
TBA

 

WRESTLING

Nov. 10
Dec. 6-7
Jan. 11

Jan. 18
Jan. 25

Jan. 31-Feb. 1

Feb. 9
Feb. 13

Feb. 21-22

at VMI Keydet Invitational

at Lebanon Valley Invitational

at Davidson Quadrangular
(UNC-Greensboro, Anderson, W&L, Davidson)
at Johns Hopkins

W&L INVITATIONAL

(Davidson, Georgia Tech, LaSalle, Longwood,
Messiah, Roger Williams, Apprentice, W&L)

at Mid-South Tournament (Carson-Newman)
at Va. College Division Championships
at Longwood

at Eastern Regionals

10:00 a.m.
AWAY
11:00 a.m.

1:00 p.m.
9:30 a.m.

AWAY
10:00 a.m.
7:00 p.m.

TBA

 

 

SWIMMING

Nov. 22-24

Dec. 4
Dec. 10
Jan. 4
Jan. 11
Jan. 15
Jan. 18
Jan. 25
Feb. 1
Feb. 1
Feb. 8
Feb. 15
Feb. 16

Feb. 21-23
Mar. 12-14
Mar. 19-21

W&L DUAL MEET CHALLENGE
(M&W) (Allegheny, Centre, Ithaca, W&L)

VA. MILITARY INSTITUTE (M)

SWEET BRIAR (W)
CHARLESTON (M&W)

at Catholic (M&W)

MARY BALDWIN (W)
GEORGE TOWN (M&W)
at Swarthmore (M&W)
BRIDGEWATER (W)

at V.M.I. (M)

at Mary Washington (M&W)
ODAC SPRINT MEET (W)
at Radford (M&W)

at ODAC/Adlantic Championships (M&W)
at NCAA Division III Championships (W)
at NCAA Division III Championships (M)

INDOOR TRACK

Jan. 18
Jan. 25
Feb. 1
Feb. 8
Feb. 29

at Virginia Tech Invitational
at Lynchburg Invitational

at V.M.I. Relays

at Va. ‘Tech All-Comers

ODAC CHAMPIONSHIPS (Lexington)

 

Petal

| @% PAGE30/THE GAZETTE #@ LL

 

TBA

7:00 p.m.
7:00 p.m.
2:00 p.m.
2:00 p.m.
7:00 p.m.
2:00 p.m.
1:00 p.m.
10:00 a.m.
1:00 p.m.
2:00 p.m.
9:00 a.m.
1:00 p.m.
TBA

‘TBA

TBA

TBA
TBA
TBA
TBA
TBA

 

 

 

 

The Virginia Capital Case
Clearinghouse, a clinical pro-
gram at Washington and Lee’s
School of Law, has been
awarded a two-year grant
from the U.S. Department of
Education.

The grant, which totals
more than $60,000, will
sustain the expansion of the
program, which was initiated
in part by a current grant
under the department’s Law
School Clinical Experience
program. ‘The new funding
will permit further develop-
ment of new areas of clinical
experience, and develop-
ment, implementation, and
evaluation of new teaching
techniques.

‘The VCCC program at
W&L was established in
1988 by W&L law professor
William S. Geimer to help
meet the need for effective
representation of capital
defendants in the common-
wealth of Virginia and to
provide a unique educational
experience for selected law
students. With support from
the University and the U.S.
Department of Education,
the program has been ex-
panded and made a part of
the permanent curriculum
at the W&L law school and
served as a prototype for a
general revision of the
curriculum being imple-
mented at the law school.

“The Clearinghouse is
now an established resource
for attorneys in the common-
wealth and an established
component of a law school
curriculum that emphasizes
writing and a tutorial approach
to teaching,” Geimer said.
“New challenges will now
present themselves, and we
are grateful for the support of
the Department of Education
as We prepare to meet them.”

The two divisions of the

LAW NEWS

Law School program receives federal grant

VCCC, the Research Division
and the Resource Division,
provide legal research and
writing assistance to Virginia
attorneys at pre-trial and at
all levels of appeal, and in
collateral proceedings.

The grant will enable the
expansion of many activities
in the program for the next
two years. Among these are
the Capital Jury Project,
which recently was awarded a
substantial grant from the
National Science Foundation
to study the decision making
of jurors in capital cases; the
expansion of VCCC’s Capital
Defense Digest, the publication
that has increasingly become
recognized across the state as
a valuable resource to
appointed defense counsel;
expansion of the number of
student conferences and
training events; completion of
the Capital Defense Trial
Manual; incorporation of an
on-site assistance program;
and the addition of a summer
coordinator, a participating
law student who will provide
continuity of the program
during the summer months.

 

 

SurroundingJudge Van Graafeiland are formerclerksand W& Llaw
alumni(fromleft) Charlene Christofilis, '87L, Gaines H. Cleveland,
‘83, Walter D. Kelley,’77,’81L,J. Steven Patterson, 90L, and
DanielJ. Fetterman, ’83,’87L.

Former Van Graafeiland clerks reunite

One of the important ties that the W&L School of Law has
developed over the years has been that with U.S. 2nd District
Judge Ellsworth A. Van Graafeiland, whose office has been
home to a number of W&L law graduates who have clerked for
him over the years.

Earlier this year, a number of those former clerks gathered at
New York City’s Time-Life Building to honor Judge Van
Graafeiland on the occasion of his sixteenth year on the bench.
Each of Van Graafeiland’s past clerks sent the judge a letter
discussing his or her experiences and the judge was presented
with a bound volume containing the letters.

Nine recent W&L law graduates have clerked for Van
Graafeiland since 1981. Those include Walter D. Kelley, Jr., ’77,
’°81L; Gaines H. Cleveland, ’83L; William Spalding, *84L; Susan
Palmer, ’85L; Charlene Christofilis, °87L; Daniel Fetterman, °83,
’°87L; Kevin Milne, ’88L; J. Patrick Darby, ’89L; and J. Steven
Patterson, ’90L.

Class of ’94 diverse and talented

One hundred twenty first-year students arrived at Washington and Lee University’s School of
Law in mid-August, bringing with them an impressive assortment of credentials and a widely

varied profile.

While a vast majority of this year’s class scored in the top-10 percentile on the Law School
Admissions Test and the median score on the LSAT was a 41 out of a possible 50, it is the story
behind the numbers that makes these first-years so interesting. ‘The group includes an Alaskan
bush pilot, a cartographer, a submarine radar scientist, and a member of the Senate Foreign

Relations Committee staff.

The first-year class, which had a median 3.29 grade-point average, is a diverse group from
different parts of the country. There are 31 states and one foreign country (the Soviet Union)
represented in this year’s class, which includes students from 75 different undergraduate institu-
tions. The members of the law class of 1994 range in age from 19 to 38, with 34 students 25 years of
age or older. Women comprise 37 percent of the class.

Political science and government continue to be the most popular undergraduate majors of
entering first-years, but other majors, such as history, English, economics, business, and journalism,
also are represented. Four members of the class hold an M.B.A., while others hold master’s degrees
in German, journalism, mathematics, and accounting.

 

| ote

THE GA ZETT E/_PAGE'S1 ©

 

 

 

 

 

 

LAW NEWS

Continued

 

 

Law student wins

ASCAP prize

Clark H. Worthy of
Roanoke, Va., a third-year
law student at Washing-
ton and Lee, has been
awarded the $500 first
prize in the American
Society of Composers,
Authors, and Publishers
Nathan Burkan Memorial
Competition.

Worthy’s winning essay
was titled “Determining
the Scope of Copyright
Protection for a Compu-
ter Program’s Non-literal
Elements: Is it as Easy as
1-2-3?”

He is also eligible for
consideration for one of five
national prizes, ranging from
$500 to $3,000.

‘The Nathan Burkan
Memorial Competition is
sponsored annually by
ASCASP in memory of
the organization’s first gen-
eral counsel, who died in
1936. ‘The awards, de-
signed to stimulate inter-
est in the field of copy-
right law, have been given
since 1938.

Worthy is executive
editor of the Law Review
and is active in the Volun-
teer Income ‘l’ax Assistance
program. He is a 1988
graduate of the University
of Virginia.

 

 

 

 

‘The Bookshelf

Competitive Ties
BY MICHAEL J. SMITKA,

Associate Professor of Economics
(Columbia University Press)

A prominent specialist on
the Japanese economy, Smitka
argues that the strategic alliances
that Japanese automotive firms
developed with their suppliers
during the 1960s and 1970s are
a key element in their success
in world automotive markets
today. Unlike Ford and

 

 

 

General Motors, the Japanese auto makers rely heavily on
outside suppliers. ‘This cooperative relationship contributed to
rapid technical change and improved project design, while

holding costs in check.

Smitka, who has testified before the Joint Economic
Jommittee of Congress on the future of the U.S. Auto Industry,
contends that the same relationship that was the basis for success

in Japan can be established in the U.S. What is needed, he
argues, is the development of business norms and strategies that

enhance reputation and trust.

Smitka joined the W&L faculty in 1986. A 1975 graduate of
Harvard, he worked in Japan and on Wall Street before earning a
Ph.D. in economics from Yale in 1989.

Accounting Ethics: A Practical Guide

for Professionals

By PHILIP G. COTTELL, JR., 68, and ‘Terry M. Perlin

(Quorum Books)

Written for professional
and aspiring accountants, this
book addresses the specific
ethical issues that accountants
are often obliged to resolve in
the context of their work.

‘The authors take a case-based,
pragmatic approach to the
subject, examining “real-life”
dilemmas often faced in the
practicing of accountancy.
Each chapter investigates a
specific issue, such as whistle-
blowing or the implications of
independence, and includes
several case studies that put
the theoretical analysis into
practical perspective.

‘Throughout, Cottell and
Perlin seek to go beyond the
codes of professional behavior

to confront the subtle personal,
corporate, and governmental
pressures that make ethical
decision-making difficult. In
an era when accountants have
been tried publicly for aiding
corporate fraud, Cottell and
Perlin's book serves as a guide
to the moral issues of accoun-
tancy.

‘The authors analyze and
interpret the three different
ethical systems—deontologism,
utilitarianism, and ethical
realism—and then examine
particular types of conflicts.

Cottel is an associate
professor of accountancy at
Miami University in Ohio.
He is the author of numerous
articles on accounting topics.

 

 

c

PAGE 32/THE GAZETTE 4

%

Fortunate Son

BY LEWIS PULLER JR., 67
(Grove Wiedenfeld)

Lewis Puller tells of his
journey of survival and
recovery from a devastating
Vietnam war injury that left
him in a wheelchair for the
rest of his life. A prominent
Pentagon attorney who once
ran for Congress against
Chuck Robb, Puller’s story
details his physical and emo-
tional rehabilitation from not
only the war, but also the
aftermath of his injuries,
including a bout with alcoho-
lism and a suicide attempt.

Puller, the son of Lewis
“Chesty” Puller, the most
decorated Marine in history,
was a 23-year-old Marine lieu-
tenant when he tripped a land
mine in Vietnam that blew
away his legs and left him
barely alive. Buoyed by the
strength of his wife, ‘Voddy,
Puller survived 15 operations
and began his life again.

Puller's book is a 389-
page account of a man's
adjusting to the hand he has
been dealt. It is, like all stories
of survival, about a person's
education.

He writes in Fortunate Son,
“I begrudgingly came to realize
that I must undergo a drastic
change in attitude to avoid
spending the rest of my days
as a miserable, lonely freak.”

Mary Jordan of 7he Wash-
ington Post describes Puller's
autobiography this way, “Now,
more than two decades after
the explosion, after years so
dark that he would wheel
himself into pitch-black rooms
and brood about life’s random
blows, Lewis Puller Jr. is ready
to talk, and he is telling an
extraordinary story of survival.
And of love.”

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI

oad

-
oe

 

 

F
Se

 

 

NEWS

 

 

Clockwise from top: WASHINGTON, D.C.—Members of the D.C. chapter gather together for a picture at their 2nd Annual Pig Roast;
LONG ISLAND—Bob Carpentier, '77, chapter president, welcomes special guest speaker Chief Judge Sol Wachtler, ‘SI, “52L, of the New
York Court of Appeals at the chapter’s annual summer reception; CUMBERLAND VALLEY—Charlie Beall, ’56,’59L, Amy Beall, ’93,
and Anna Crowel helped welcome new W&L students at their annual summer reception and dinner.

Welcoming new
students everywhere

If it’s August, then it must
be time to hold alumni chap-
ter gatherings for new W&L
students. ‘There were 23
different chapter events to
welcome their region’s fresh-

men and first-year law students.

‘The Charlotte, Colorado,
Florida West Coast, Louisville,
Mid-South, Middle ‘Vennes-

see, Washington D.C., and
Westchester-F airfield chapters
all held gatherings, while the
Augusta-Rockingham and
Rockbridge chapters combined
to hold a barbecue at Skylark.
A number of W&L faculty
and administration joined the
Skylark gathering, including
Dennis Manning, dean of
freshmen, Rob Mish ’76,
assistant director of alumni
programs, William Paxton,

’80, assistant director of major
gifts, and Chris Baradel, ’91,
alumni staff associate.

‘The Florida West Coast
reception was held at the home
of Heddy and Jay Bever, ’79,
and the Westchester-F airfield
gathering was hosted by Dr.
and Mrs. Rardon D. Beavill
III, 60. J. Alan Greeter was
host to the Middle ‘Tennessee
chapter barbecue, while Mr.
and Mrs. Neal Cory, 77, were

 

 

| <> THE

GAZETTE/ PAGE 33 ¢@

hosts to the Louisville chapter
cookout.

At the Charlotte gather-
ing, held at the home of Lulie
and Lynwood Mallard (parents
of Lynwood Mallard, ’90),
Rick Heatley, W&L’s director
of career development and
placement, was a special guest
at that chapter’s new student
cocktail party. Heatley spoke
on the Alumni Career Assist-
ance Program.

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI

 

 

 

Clockwise from top: NEW ORLEANS

Also holding events were
the Mobile, Detroit, Cleveland,
San Francisco, Lynchburg,
Pensacola, and New England
chapters. ‘he Mobile chapter
held a cocktail buffet at the
home of Mrs. H. ‘Taylor
Morrissette (mother of Clifton
Morrissette, ’83), and W&L
Director of Major Gifts Dick
Sessoms was a special guest.
‘The Detroit chapter welcomed
five undergraduates to W&L

 

at its cocktail party at the home
of Mary and R.K. Barton, ’63,
while the Cleveland chapter
welcomed new students and
Assistant Alumni Director Mish
to the home of Fran and Ed
Meyers, ’61.

‘The San Francisco gather-
ing was held at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. John Savage,
parents of Benny Savage, ’89,
while the Lynchburg welcome
party was at the home of Alex

 

 

 

Richards, ’81. ‘The New
England chapter held its sum-
mer cookout welcome event
at the home of Michelle and
Dave Swallow, ’82.

‘The Southern Ohio chap-
ter held its event in June,
while the Winston-Salem chap-
ter welcomed new students at
the home of Debbie and David
Rigby, ’75. Eastern North
Carolina alumni met at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. R.

 

| & PAGE 34/THE

GAZETTE @

a

 

NEWS

 

W&L alumni meet at the bar during a May alumni party with alumni from Georgetown,
Hollins, Mary Baldwin, Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, Sewanee, Sweet Briar, Vanderbilt, and Virginia; EASTERN N.C.—
Christian Dysart, "92, JuLee Messerich, "91, Sarah Allen, ’90, and Jeff Kreis,’92, are on hand to welcome new students at a reception in
Raleigh; GREENS BORO—Norris Smith, '29, presents gift of family papers to Bill Paxton, ’80, assistant director of major gifts, at a
special reception in August.

Gordon Grubb, ’82 with Direc-
tor of Alumni Programs Jim
Farrar, Jr., 74, as special guest.
Greensboro alumni held
a reception honoring new stu-
dents and commemorating
the Gilbert Stuart portrait of
George Washington. Both
Paxton and W&L Professor
of Art Pamela Simpson were
special guests at the reception.
Central Oklahoma alumni
held a summer cookout for new

 

 

 

 

students at the home of Mary
and Rowland Denman, ’58.
The Cumberland Valley
welcomed freshmen and
special guests Mish and Baradel,
while the Long Island chapter’s
welcome party was hosted by
Robert Carpentier, ’77.

Good old-fashioned

summertime sports

‘The warm weather also
meant the opportunity for some
chapter-sponsored recreation.

A host of W&L chapters de-
fended the Generals’ honor in
softball clashes, and one other
sponsored its own golf cham-
pionship.

‘The Atlanta chapter
squared off in softball against
its counterparts from the Uni-
versity of the South, while in

Richmond, W&L alumni met
their rivals from Hampden-
Sydney. In New Orleans, W&L
alumni participated in a round-
robin softball tournament with
their peers from Sewanee,
Georgetown, and Vanderbilt.
‘The Birmingham alumni met
alumni from Sewanee in
softball.

‘The New York chapter
held its first-ever open golf
championship at the Rockaway
Hunting Club in Cedarhurst,
N.Y. Preston Moore, 82,
captured the inaugural cham-
pionship.

Other chapter events

‘The Shenandoah chapter
played host to a reception
celebrating the University’s
prized Herreschoff Collection
Exhibit. The event was held
at the Belle Grove Plantation
in Middletown, Va. Special
University guests included
President and Mrs. John D.
Wilson; Paxton and his wife,
Carter; and Mish.

 

ALUMNI

NEWS

 

 

W&L alumni of the
Appalachian chapter met in
Johnson City, ‘Tenn., fora
presentation of the Alumni
Admissions Program by Asso-
ciate Director of Admissions
Dan Murphy, ’73. ‘The Appa-
lachian chapter also held a
brunch prior to the W&L-Emory
and Henry football game at
Emory, Va., in September.

‘The New York City chap-
ter held its annual spring ban-
quet with special guests Presi-
dent Wilson and A. Stevens
Miles, ’51, rector of the Board
of ‘Trustees.

‘The Puget Sound chapter
held a special reception for
Professor of Politics Lewis John,
’58, in June at the home of Dr.
and Mrs. Ernest (Chappie)
Conrad, *73.

 

)

—— :
—
—_—

MUI)

i

Set THY

 

 

 

 

 

Top: ROCKBRIDGE—Welcoming freshmen at Skylark were (from left) Sue Baizley, Suzie and Jim Jones,
77, chapter president, and Dean of Freshmen Dennis Manning and wife, Beth; SAN DIEGO—Part of the
63 alumni and new students posed for a group picture at the annual party held at the LaJolla Beach and

Tennis Club.

 

 

 

| & THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 35 ¢ |

 

 

ALUMNI NEWS

eo, are 4,
Oe anal BP RRB eid -
i > * ‘ars Fo > > fool

 

 

 

: i ‘
j mf 4
¢ > ; f
eo ‘ +
. - °
\ | vi 1
~ im
‘ | |
ae + :
a ; ? ’
+ - ° 5
. : 3 :
ie ee
oN a ; :
*
~?
a.
: : 7 —
: ’ .
. 7 _ * - ¥ t % ° 7" is ; a Ss Y
i * Aco 2 Ratiig : Fae
f ow - a Stes F ’ é ‘ ¥s;
: . ‘ie 7 : 3 s oe f
5 ; : — r
* r. ee i ;
7 << °

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Clockwise from top: ROCKBRIDGE—Members of the W&L singing group JubiLee serenade Lewis Tyree, '43, at his home, Mulberry Hill, at a
reception prior to the W&L-Centre football game; FOOTBALL REUNION—Members of W&L’s 1981 ODAC championship football team
gathered for a reunion include (from left) Mark Yerke, ’83, Bill Devine, '83, and Ken Mangianello, 83; ROANOKE—Paul Black, ’82, introduces
W&L professor of history Richard Bidlack, who spoke on the Russian revolution at a September luncheon.

 

 

|  PAGE36/THE GAZETTE # |

 

 

 

Washington & Lee Bookstore
Lexington, VA 24450

yy

G
er

 

GIFTS FROM THE WASHINGTON & LEE BOOKSTORE

—|

=|
Aes A
PSG

POTN HCO EN
tLe SN di

 

 

A1 NEW from Champion! Nylon full-zip unlined jacket with
concealed zip-out hood. Navy with teal inserts outlined in
white piping. Back has functional wind vent, lined with mesh.
3/4" reflective tape encircles the chest. Two front pockets. S,
M, L, XL. $38.95.

A2 Matching unlined navy nylon pants, with elasticized waist
and drawstring. On-seam pockets and elasticized leg opening
with ankle zipper. S, M, L, XL. $25.95.

Special! Order the set (A1 and A2 together) for only $55.00!

A3 Law School heavyweight T-shirt from Soffe in grey, 90%
cotton, 10% rayon. S, M, L, XL. $10.95.

A4 “Jams” long shorts in Black Watch or red and yellow
plaid. Cotton flannel with elastic waistband and side pockets.
$15.95.

AS Our most popular sweatshirt—the reverse weave from
Champion. Navy print on grey or white on navy. Be warned —
these run very large! S, M, L, XL. $37.95.

XXL $39.95.

A6 Reverse weave shorts from Champion in grey only. With
elastic waist and side pockets. M, L, XL. $22.95.

A7 Heavyweight T-shirt from Champion in grape or white in
100% cotton, or grey in 88% cotton, 12% rayon. M, L, XL.
$14.95.

A8 The athletic logo embroidered on a twill cap. Navy or
royal with white logo, or white with navy logo. Adjustable
band. $9.95.

AS Soft knit golf shirt with knit collar in white or royal blue
100% cotton with two-color embroidery on left chest. M,L.XL.
$29.95.

A10 Pro-style cap in navy twill with grey and white
embroidery. Adjustable band. Also available in white or navy
wool. Twill $9.95. Wool $12.95.

A11 Ash grey hooded half-zip sweatshirt from MV
Sportswear. Drawstring at neck and waist. 90% cotton, 10%
acrylic reverse weave. Sizes run large. M, L, XL. $59.95.

A12 Generals’ cap from Koza’s. Navy twill with white and
grey embroidery or white twill with navy and grey embroidery.
Adjustable strap. $9.95.

A13 Crew neck sweatshirt from Jansport in your choice of
ash or navy with two-color silkscreen design. Navy is 100%
cotton; grey is 97% cotton, 3% polyester.

S, M, L, XL. $29.95.

Ly eas

OES ths
AND LEE

 

 

 

 

 

 

B10

 

 

=

ea

i

 

 

 

  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

B1 Pen and ink sketch of the Colonnade by Eglomise of
Boston. Matted in ivory, framed in antiqued gold wood. 12°
by 10" $60.00. Available also as a mirror, overall
dimensions 12° by 25° $100.00.

David Keeling ‘73 again offers his color lithographs, in
color, double matted and framed in dark wood, tipped in
gold. Shipped to you from the artist's studio.

B2 Spring: your choice of 2 sizes: 38" by 27"is $183.00,
20 1/2" by 14” is $55.00.

B3 Summer: 35" by 29" is $183.00.
B4 Autumn: 20° by 16° is $55.00.

B5 T-shirt for your favorite small child in white with navy
imprint and navy trim at sleeves and neck. 50/50
cotton/poly. 2T, 31, 4T. $8.95.

B6 Robert E. Lee: Leader in War and
Peace by Carol Greene. Excellent
biography for very young readers with
several pictures of Lee’s years at W
& L. Paper only. $4.95.

B7 Black Watch cotton flannel
Sleepshirt. One size fits all.
Also available in red/yellow
plaid. $25.95.

 
  
   

B8 The Colonnade stamp
from 1949 in a unique display
with a first day cover. Royal blue
mat, with grey surround and black
frame. ready to hang. 11° by 14°
$75.00.

ty oa
~
os

BS The same item in a slightly smaller form. |
8" by 10° $49.95.

B10 Solid brass lamp by Heritage. 26" high, hand finished
and sealed, with the University crest set into the base.
Lamp will be shipped from manufacturer. $275.00.

B11 Pewter Christmas ornament from Prestige Pewter—
the athletic logo is encircled by a wreath. 2 1/4° diameter,
the ornament comes in its own plastic case. $6.95.

B12 It's called a Suncatcher and comes with its own blue
ribbon and small suction cup hanger. In gift box. $6.95.

B13 Large (14°) stuffed animals wearing their own
embroidered sweaters from W & L. Your choice of several
animals—ask us what's available. $29.95.

B14 Christmas ornament, the second in a series—a 1991
W & L glass ornament in frosted white with the crest and
the year in navy ink. 3 1/4" diameter. In its own box. $7.95.

B15 Campus snow scene in color on quality stock.

6 1/4" by 4 1/2" picture with message, “Season's Greetings
and Best Wishes for a Happy New Year.” Box of 10 cards
and envelopes. $6.95.

 

 

B16 Elegant 7° diameter pewter bow! with the crest on the
side. Boxed. $58.95.

B17 W &L version of the Jefferson Cup, with a rolled
edge. A lead-free pewter cup for your favorite beverage.
Boxed $16.95.

B18 A pewter flask—lead-free of course—from Old Forge
Metals, made in Sheffield, England. Holds 4 ounces. Boxed.
$35.95

B19 Larger flask in lead-free polished pewter. Holds 6
unces. Boxed. $37.95.

B20 Elegance and quality in a three quart insulated ice
bucket from Kraftware in navy with a gold imprint. $59.95.

B21 Cocktail napkins with a campus scene. Package of 30
for $3.95

B22 School of Law mug, ceramic, in your choice of white
with navy print or navy with white. $4.95.

B23 Set of four double old fashioned glasses with royal
blue crest. In their own heavyweight gift box. $13.00 set of 4.

B24 Generous 2 1/2 ounce jigger with royal blue crest.
$3.95.

B25 Heavy lead-crystal paperweight with 2 1/2" diameter
pewter crest inset. Boxed. $25.95

B26 Belt from Leatherman in webbing and polished leather
with solid brass buckle. University crest is woven in navy
and white. Webbing choices: khaki, navy, red, in even sizes
32" to 40". $13.95.

B27 Leather key ring with the Crest in navy and white.
$5.00.

B28 Webbing key ring with navy and white crest. Webbing
your choice of khaki, navy, red. $3.50.

B29 Genuine Cross pens with the crest on the clip.
Available in several styles, as ball point pen alone or pen
and pencil set. Ask us what is available currently.
Possibilities are chrome, 10 karat gold-filled, classic black,
grey, and burgundy.

B30 Beach towel in 100% cotton velour from Devant Ltd.
in a 30" by 60" size with the crest silkscreened in full color.
$24.95.

B31 Golf towel with full color silkscreened crest on 100%
cotton velour 16" by 26" with grommet. $7.95.

B32 Golf towel of 100% cotton velour in navy with athletic
logo embroidered in white. Tri-fold with grommet. $11.95.

 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

C5

 

ONE SUMMER:
—OUT WEST

  

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON
LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

c8

 

 

 

Philippe Labro
Hay ~
aes CHRISTOPREL CAMELS
C11
cg C10

W & L University Bookstore Name:

Lexington, VA 24450 Address

(703) 463-8633 City State Zip

 

 

Mon. Fri. 8:00 a.m.— 4:00 p.m. Day Phone (Please!):
For shipping purposes please check one:

[] Residence [-] Commercial address

/Color

To FAX your order dial 1-703-463-8939.
(If transmission problems require faxing your order twice, please mark the second fax as a duplicate.)
For orders over $5.00:

Please send no money with your VISA MASTERCARD Exp. Date
order as prices can change without Charge Card Number:

warning. We will bill you, adding TIBI BAL
UPS and sales tax where applicable.

If you'd rather order by phone or

you have a question, please call us. Signature

 

 

 

9/91

 

 

C1 and €2 Our forefathers— in three sizes! Washington by
Peale and Lee by Elder, each handsomely matted and framed
in cherry stained wood. Large 10" by 12” image $42.95 each.
Medium 8" by 10° (oval mat) $42.95 each. Small 5" by 7"
(oval mat) $30.00 each.

C3 Wedgwood plates: Waterford/Wedgwood assures us that
we will receive our July 1990 order someday. If you are
interested in being notified when the plates finally get here,
please let us know, So we can add your name to our list. Each
plate will be about $50.00. There will be four scenes available.

C4 Eglomise Mirror with a scene of the colonnade
handpainted on the reverse side of the glass. 15" by 26" with
an antiqued wood frame in muted silver and gold. $165.00.

C5 The Patriarch; the Rise and Fall of the Bingham Family by
Alex S. Jones ‘68 and Susan E. Tifft. Pulitzer Prize winner
Jones and his wife Tifft have chronicled the spectactular rise
and collapse of the Louisville journalist Bingham family.

PBS's Jim Lehrer says the book “reads like fiction although no
one would dare make up such a thing as this....” A drama of
power and money and wrenching sadness. Hardcover $24.95.

C6 Quality or Else by Lloyd Dobyns ‘57 and Clare Crawford-
Mason. Companion book to the TV series on the quality
revolution in business. Companies are making radical
changes to create an environment which empowers workers to
produce improved goods and services to meet today’s high
Standards. Hardcover $21.95.

C7 Bringing Down the Great Wall: Writings on Science,
Culture and Democracy in China by Fang Lizhi, translated and
edited by James H. Williams ‘80. Speeches, interviews and
essays of the Chinese dissident who attracted the wrath of the
Chinese communist regime over thiry years. He is now in
exile in the U. S. Hardcover $19.95.

C8 Still available— the book for all seasons! William Strode’s
handsome full-color photographs of the campus, and an
introduction by Professor Sid Coulling are features of The
Washington and Lee Book. Sturdy dark blue cover with dust
jacket. Hardcover $33.00, or $33.50 in sealed mailing carton.

C9 One Summer Out West by Philippe Labro. This novel
chronicles Labro’s summer of working at a Colorado forestry
camp following his first year at W & L (as The Foreign
Student—also available, paper, $4.95). A comic, suspenseful
and warmly nostalgic story by a Frenchman clearly in love with
America. Paper only $7.95.

C10 A Fly Fisherman's Blue Ridge by Christopher Camuto,
Instructor of English at W & L. A series of vivid essays
weaving fly-fishing, natural history, environmental concerns
and the beauty of the Blue Ridge wilderness, this will appeal to
fishing folk and non fishing folk alike. Widely praised and
selling fast. Hardcover $19.95.

C11 Passion Play by W. Edward Blaine ‘74. Blaine’s gripping
mystery of murder and passion at a Virginia prep school was
called “superior to most” by Publisher's Weekly and “an
exciting and thought-provoking debut” by Booklist when it first
appeared in 1990. The hardcover quickly sold out and is no
longer available. Paper only $3.95.

C12 Washington and Lee Music Tape. Recorded in the New
Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts, this tape provides both
instrumental and vocal music—including, of course, the
Washington and Lee Swing! $5.95.

CLASS NOTES

9 1 7 JOHN L. JUBAL) EARLY, who
is in his 95th year, is in good health.

He lives in Sarasota, Fla.

20
CHARLES H. HAMILTON has

"26
retired after 65 years of service with

the Richmond News-Leader newspaper. He had
been a consultant for the paper with Media

General.
a 4 JOSEPH J. KAPLAN is still prac-
ticing law with the firm of Washer,

Kaplan, Rothschild, Aberson & Miller, in
Louisville, Ky.

aa

3 () THE HON. ROBERT E.
CLAPP JR. is retired and lives in

Frederick, Md.

ERIC B. HALLMAN lives in
Westfield, New Jersey.

KENNETH E. SPENCER is
retired and lives in Columbia, Md.

CHARLES W. COCKE recently completed
one-year stints as commander of the Disabled
American Veterans chapter and the American
Legion Post No. 31 in Thomasville, Ga.

3 2 THE HON. GEORGE R.

SMITH recently was featured in
the Arkansas Gazette for his hobby of writing
crossword puzzles. His first puzzle was publish-
ed in The New York Times in 1970. Since then,
he’s had 50 others published. Smith lives in Lit-
tle Rock, Ark.

KENNETH E. SPENCER (see ’29).

3 3 DR. C. FREDERICK IRONS JR.
is retired, but works part-time in

the Department of Family Medicine at the East

Carolina University School of Medicine. He

lives in Greenville, N.C.

THE HON. GEORGE R. SMITH (see ’32).
3 4 ROBERT L. BUFFINGTON
recently celebrated the 50th an-

niversary of his marriage to the former Ruby
Lee Todd. The couple makes its home in
Dallas.

RICHARD SALE is retired. He lives in Beverly
Hills, Calif.

PHILIP J. SERAPHINE JR. is retired. He lives
in Cockeysville, Md. and has seven

great-grandchildren.
9 3 5 WILLIAM W. FOWLKES helped
oversee the merger of his law firm,

Fowlkes & Walthall, with Gardner & Ferguson,
Inc., another San Antonio, Texas, law firm.
) 3 z CLARK B. WINTER and his wife,

Margery, recently returned from a
3,200-mile driving trip through England and
Scotland. The couple has logged over 1 million
driving miles.

9 3 & J. OLIVER GLUYAS attended
Washington and Lee’s Alumni Col-

lege in July. He now makes his home exclusive-

ly in Youngstown, Ohio.
9 39 JOSEPH B. EDWARDS works
with Christian ministries in Fort

Smith, Ark. He has 11 grandchildren.
HAROLD L. (DICK) FENTON JR. retired

from covering classical concerts and recitals for
the Waterbury (Conn.) Republican-American. He
had reported on classical music for 18 years.

ALEXANDER M. LOEB won first prize in the
Highland Park, Meridian, Miss., Arts in the
Park contest in April. Loeb, who also won the
contest in 1989, is a retired businessman turned
full-time artist.

JOHN B. PEARSON was honored by the Con-
necticut Bar Association on the 50th anniver-
sary of his law practice. He is active as an ar-
bitrator of Connecticut's “Lemon Law.” He lives
in West Hartford.

EDGAR L. SMITH practices law in
Lewisburg, W.Va., in association with his

daughter, Brenda.

9 4() RICHARD W. BOISSEAU and
his wife, Babs, celebrated their

50th wedding anniversary in February. They

live in Lancaster, Va.

BRENT H. FARBER JR. recently celebrated
his 50th wedding aniversary to the former Bet-
tie Field. They live in Bryn Mawr, Pa.

THOMAS H. McCUTCHEON is retired and
lives in Cape Cod, Mass. He is on the Chatham
Personnel Board & Airport Commission, and

plays tennis several times a week.
9 4 1 A scholarship endowed in the name

of ALVIN T. FLEISHMAN has
been created at Tri-County Technical College,
where he has taught since 1980. His family,
friends, and current and past students from Tri-
County raised more than $8,500 to endow a
scholarship in his name. He received a plaque
at a reception honoring the endowment on his
70th birthday. Fleishman, the owner of
Fleishman Stores and Fleishman Realty Co.,
lives in Anderson, S.C.

WILLIAM A. MURRAY is retired and living
in Venice, Fla. He and his wife, Donna, spend

their summers in Ohio.
9 4 2 WILLIAM B. HOPKINS is a
senior member of the Roanoke law

firm of Martin, Hopkins, Lemon & Edwards,

P.C.

9 4 4 After a few years of retirement,
CLARENCE E. BALLENGER

JR. works for Blockbuster Video in Spartanburg,

S.C. Previously, he worked 39 years for Crad-

dock Terry Shoe Co.

WILLIAM B. HOPKINS (see °42).

DR. HAVEN W. MANKIN is “semi-retired”
but still practicing radiology in Oklahoma City,
Okla. He is on the executive committee of the
Oklahoma City Art Museum, and does water-

color painting in his spare time.
9 4 5 PAUL R. BYRD is retired. He is
driving for Avis, shuttling cars on

call in his hometown of Raleigh, N.C.

ROBERT T. GOLDENBERG practices law
as a partner in the firm of Goldenberg,
Goldenberg & Stealey. He lives in Parkersburg,
W.Va.

COLLIER WENDEROTH JR. and his wife,
Nancy, recently finished a trip around the world.

Wel 3/7

DAVID P. HAUSEMAN is retired

"46
and lives in Lakeland, Fla. He

spends his time golfing and playing bridge.

DONALD S. HILLMAN recently retired as
vice president of multi-media communications
for Hasco International, Inc. He remains in-
volved in communications projects for the

government and private industry. He lives in
Scarsdale, N.Y.

SHEPPARD W. ZINOVOY recently returned
from Budapest, Hungary, where he served as
a volunteer with the International Executive Ser-
vice Corps. IESC is a non-profit organization
of American businesspersons that provides
managerial and technical assistance to private
enterprises in developing countries. Zinovoy
assisted a manufacturer of eyeglass frames with

improving domestic and export marketing.
THE REV. L. ROPER

"47
SHAMHART retired after 30

years service as rector of St. Mark’s Episcopal
Church, Jackson Heights, N.Y. He had been
a parish priest for almost 40 years. He will con-
tinue as Archdeacon of Queens, with respon-
sibilities for 33 congregations. His respon-
sibilities also include Spanish- and Asian-
American ministries and the development of
training for multi-cultural ministry.
9 4 7 DR. THOMAS M. WRIGHT has
a general surgery practice in Annan-
dale, Va. His son, DR. THOMAS P.
WRIGHT, °77, is also in the practice.

EDGAR D. HOLLADAY is
retired and living in Carmel, Ind.

48
"49

THE REV. WILLIAM C. SMITH JR. was
recently elected to a two-year term as president
of the Southern Conference of the United
Church of Christ. Smith, who lives in
Greensboro, N.C., also was responsible for local
arrangements for the 1991 General Synod,
which was held in Norfolk, Va., in June.
9 S50) RICHARD E. HODGES JR. has
retired from the advertising firm of
Earle Palmer Brown after 40 years of working
in the field of advertising and public relations.
He is doing some consulting work and remains

active in several community and professional
organizations in his hometown of Atlanta.

JAMES T. TRUNDLE has started an informa-
tion gathering service for real estate appraisers.
Also a realtor, he lives in Cherry Hill, N.J.

IRVIN H. WICKNICK recently retired as vice
president of U.S. Epperson Underwriting Co.
He worked for 36 years in property and casualty
insurance claims. He and his wife, Devona, live

in Boca Raton, Fla.

9 5 1 GROVER C. OUTLAND JR. was
named to the Virginia Military Insti-

tute’s board of visitors by Virginia Gov. Douglas

Wilder. He is a Norfolk attorney and a 1949

graduate of VMI.

ROBERT T. GOLDENBERG
(see °45).

JOHN I. THOMPSON JR. retired from the
Pennsylvania Fish Commission in April. He was
with the state agency for 22 years. He makes
his home in Bellefonte, Pa.

=e
9 5 3 THE HON. HUGH S. GLICK-
STEIN was selected chief judge by

the judges of the Fourth District Court of Ap-

peal in West Palm Beach, Fla.

9 5 4 WILLIAM H. BRANDON JR.
has been nominated as president-

elect of the American Bankers Association. He

is a member of the ABA’s Board of Directors

and co-chairs the Deposit Insurance Reform
Committee.

ROY C. HERRENKOHL JR. was honored by
Lehigh University in May for 25 years of service
to the school. He is vice provost for research
and dean of graduate studies, and he specializes
in research on family dynamics.

JAMES THOMAS TRUNDLE
(see ’50).

SEDGWICK L. MOSS and his wife, Virginia,
traveled to the Canadian Rocky Mountains last
summer. He is a travel consultant in Falls
Church, Va.

‘oD

THE HON. HUGH S. GLICK-
STEIN (see ’53).

 

 

GIVING GIFTS OF REAL ESTATE

M.. of you have a piece of

real estate—a home, rental property, a parcel of
undeveloped land, a farm—that comprised a
portion of your personal estate. As an asset, its
fair market value will be included in the calcula-
tion of your gross estate for the purpose of
determining any estate taxes that may be due
upon your death. You will remember that the
IRS permits you to have an adjusted gross estate
of just $600,000 before the estate tax is activated.
(This is assuming that you have not already
tapped into that amount with prior non-charitable
gifts.) The estate tax escalates rapidly so that
you can find yourself saddled with an estate tax
bite of 55 percent before you know it. In other
words, depending upon the size of your estate,
your children may find themselves inheriting 45-
cent dollars if your estate plan lacks a well
thought-out philanthropic component.

IF THE REAL ESTATE YOU OWN IS

unencumbered by mortgages or liens and is

untainted by environmental problems, it can
make an ideal gift to Washington and Lee. In
effect, your transfer of the property to W&L
would remove the asset from your estate imme-
diately so that no estate tax will be due upon
your death. In addition, you will receive an
immediate federal income tax deduction based
on a formal appraisal of the property’s fair market
value. Furthermore, by transferring ownership
of the property to W&L, you would avoid any
capital gains tax that might be due if the real
estate had risen in value since acquisition.
TOO, REAL ESTATE IS AN EXCEL-
lent asset to use in funding a particular type of
income-retained arrangement I have broached
in this space before: the charitable remainder
unitrust. A version of unitrust permits you to
make a gift of the real estate, receive an imme-
diate federal income tax deduction, remove the
property from your estate, and, upon sale of the

property, benefit from an income in the five-to-

eight-percent range from the new income-
producing assets acquired by the trustee—the
manager of the trust for you. Upon your death
as income beneficiary, the value of the trust
would be transferred to Washington and Lee

to fund a project that you identify at the trust’s
inception. This approach is a wonderful way to
transform a non-income-producing asset into one
that can actually generate an income for you
while simultaneously offering considerable income
tax and estate tax advantages.

TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THIS
approach to investing in the future of Washing-
ton and Lee University, please contact me at the
phone number listed below. I would be delighted
to help you and your financial and legal advisors

consider the possibilities.

David R. Long
Director of Planned Giving
(703) 463-8425

 

 

38 = =W&L

tat

i by Aya

 

—

DUDLEY B. THOMAS recently attended the
Current Strategy Forum at the Naval War Col-
lege in Newport, Rhode Island. Thomas, who
‘s the publisher of the Bridgeport (Conn.) Post,
was invited to the forum by the Secretary of the

Navy.

9 5 6 WILLIAM H. FISHBACK JR. has
been named special advisor to

University of Virginia President John Casteen.

He works on a variety of projects related to

public affairs and communications, and he con-

tinues to teach several courses in the English

department.

9 57 JAMES M. BOSWELL was in
Lexington in June to see his son,

ROBERT BOSWELL, ’91, graduate. James

Boswell lives in Little Rock, Ark.

WILLIAM A. G. BOYLE is deputy mayor and
alderman of Hamilton, N.Y. He has been on

the city council for 24 years.

’ 5 8 SHELDON CLARK II is director
of college placement and admis-

sions at the Forman School in Litchfield, Conn.

He also teaches English at the school.

THOMAS C. FRIEDMAN is opening a store
called “Who’d-A-Thought,” in Easthampton,
N.Y. He moved to New York from Cleveland.

HOWARD C. PACKETT, president of the
Edmonds-Packett Group, an advertising agency
based in Roanoke, Va., recently purchased the
Roanoke agency with Edmonds-Packett’s vice
president William Thomasson.

WILLIAM A. ROBERTS was recently named
managing director of The Venturetech Group,
an organization in Birmingham, Ala., that pro-
vides crisis management and conflict resolution
services to troubled companies, as well as
business advisory services to emerging and

growth companies.
9 6 1 STEPHEN I. DANZANSKY was
named chief of staff for the U.S.
Department of Education in April. He had been
deputy assistant to President Bush and direc-
tor of Cabinet affairs since February 1989.

COURTNEY R. MAUZY JR. serves as a
volunteer director for the board of directors of
the Fellowship of Christian Athletes of North
Carolina in Raleigh. Mauzy, who also is a foot-
ball referee for the Atlantic Coast Conference,
directs fund-raising efforts the board undertakes
and helps broaden the exposure of the
Organization.

6 2 G.T. DUNLOP ECKER has
joined Group Hospitalization and
Medical Services, Inc., as vice president of
Domestic Provider Networks. He is establishing
a network of hospitals and doctors in the United
States for national and international health in-
surance clients. He lives in Bethesda, Md.

ROBERT P. LANCASTER is senior vice
president at Lehman Brothers Inc. in Dallas.
He manages institutional sales for the South
Central Region.

ROBERT D. LEWIS has joined Textron
Aerostructures, a division of Textron Corp.,
located in Nashville, Tenn. He is the director
of compensation and benefits.

RICHEBOURG (RICH) McWILLIAMS JR.
is the executive director of the Apalachee Land
Conservancy in Tallahassee, Fla. He directs the
day-to-day operations of the ALC.

THOMAS R. MOORE III has been working
in Peru for more than 20 years as an an-
thropologist specializing in Amazonian Indians.
His current interests include the environmen-
tal impact of a proposed road linking Brazilian
cities with Peru’s Pacific coast.

JOHN P. PETZOLD was sworn in as Com-
mon Pleas Judge of Montgomery County, Ohio,
in July.

DWIGHT N. ROCKWOOD JR. spends much
of his spare time coaching youth soccer. He
lives with his wife and three children in New
Orleans.

ROBERT C. WOOD III has been appointed
to a four-year term on Sweet Briar College's

board of directors.
6 3 DANIEL T. BALFOUR is run-
ning for the Virginia House seat in
the 73rd District. He is a partner in the Rich-
mond law firm of Beale, Wright, Balfour, David-
son, Etherington & Parker, and he has been an
active member of the Henrico Republican Com-
mittee for the last 20 years.

R. THOMAS EDWARDS III practices inter-
nal medicine in Roanoke, Va. His son, Evans,
93, is playing football for W&L.

J. HOLMES MORRISON was promoted to
president and chief executive officer of One
Valley Bankcorp of West Virginia, Inc. He had
been executive vice president of One Valley and
president and chief executive officer of the com-
pany’s flagship bank in Charleston, W.Va.

MAURICE W. WORTH JR. has been pro-
moted to senior vice president in charge of per-
sonnel at Delta Air Lines world headquarters
in Atlanta.

9 6 4 JOSEPH R. BURKART has been

elected chairman of the Board of
Directors of The New York Eye and Ear Infir-
mary. The Infirmary is the oldest specialty
hospital in the U.S. and treats more than
140,000 patients a year. Burkhart also is assis-
tant national director for marketing and develop-
ment of the Boys & Girls Clubs of America.

PENNINGTON H. WAY III is senior vice
president of Reliance National Insurance Co.
He is responsible for the international, excess
and surplus, and healthcare divisions. He and
his family live in New Canaan, Conn.

6 5 G. ASHLEY ALLEN (see
DONNA DE BONTE, ’87).
DANIEL T. BALFOUR (see °63).

ROBERT C. DeVANEY manages two offshore
oil drilling rigs for Zapata Off-Shore Company,
in Bombay, India. He, his wife Sita, and their

three daughters have lived in Bombay since
March 1989.

CHRISTOPHER M. (KIT) KELL returned to
Lexington in June to see his son, J. ALEX-
ANDER KELL, ’91, graduate. ROBERT A.
KELL, ’64, brother of Christopher, also at-
tended graduation.

MICHAEL J. MICHAELES has been listed in
Who's Who in American Law. He has a general
legal practice in Worcester, Mass., that
specializes in business litigation.

WOODARD D. OPENO is writing a history
of tugboats on the Piscataqua River for the Port-
smouth (N.H.) Marine Society.

STEPHEN L. WILSON, an administrative law
judge, has moved to the Roanoke, Va., office
of hearings and appeals with the Social Securi-

ty Administration.

9 6 6 PETER M. deMANIO recently
participated in the Empire State

Games’ rowing competition in Albany, N.Y. He

is coach of the Riverview High School rowing

team in Sarasota, Fla., where he is an attorney

in the law firm of deManio & Young.

MICHAEL M. HASH is counsel to the U.S.
Congress’ subcommittee on Health & the En-
vironment of the House Energy & Commerce
Committee. He works in the area of health
legislation.

67

EDWARD B. (BOB) ROBERTSON JR. has

been promoted to manager of the Remanufac-
WEL 39

J. HOLMES MORRISON (see
63).

 

It was a long time coming, but the
30-year wait for his Washington and
Lee track monogram was well worth
it, says Alan Corwin, ‘62.

Corwin received a special ‘‘ex
post facto’’ W&L monogram and gold
track shoe at a special Alumni College
ceremony in July. Corwin was
presented with his letter by legendary
W&L coach Norm Lord and W&L
director of athletics Mike Walsh.

Corwin, a hurdler in his day, was
an important member for Lord’s track
teams from 1959-61. His second- and
third-place finishes were crucial in
helping W&L to 21 wins in 23 meets
in Corwin’s three seasons.

But a travel mix-up left him absent
for an away meet during the 1960
season, and as a result, he was never
given a letter for that season.

Despite scoring for the Generals
in a number of meets, Corwin failed
to earn a letter that season because he
did not make a trip with the team to
the Virginia State Championships.

Lord explains: “In those days,
the team agreed to strict training
rules to earn a varsity letter. For all
away meets, team members were re-
quired to take the trip with the team

 

 

Corwin receives congratulations from Walsh (left), Lord after receiving monogram

Corwin, ’62, overcomes last hurdle,
ends wait for long-lost monogram

and participate in specified events
when asked to do so. Since Al did
not participate in one event that year,
he did not get his monogram.”’

A fair rule. A hard and fast rule,
too. But, there’s more here than meets
the eye. And that’s probably why it
took 30 years for Corwin to get his
long-lost monogram.

“That year was the year of the
Mock Convention, and | was the cam-
paign manager for Senator Jackson,
who was our nomination for vice
president with Senator Kennedy,”’
Corwin explained. ‘‘A number of us
were invited to meet with them on
Friday in Washington. Well, | ended
up missing the bus back to school and
| ended up missing the meet.”

Corwin was seated with Lord and
Walsh in Evans Dining Hall at the
farewell breakfast for the Alumni Col-
lege session on ‘Five Great Ideas”’
when the two got up to make the sur-
prise presentation.

“| certainly wasn’t expecting
that,” a beaming Corwin said after-
ward. “| hadn’t forgotten, but |
thought everybody else had. This was
very nice, and I'd like to thank Coach
Lord for remembering me.”

 

 

40 W&L

tured Products, Parts and Service division of
Ford Motor Co. of Europe. At the beginning
of 1991, he was mobilized as a lieutenant col-
onel in the United States Air Force Reserve for
Operation Desert Storm. He is now back home
in Cologne, Germany, where he lives and
works.

CAPT. WILLIAM S. WILDRICK is the chief
of staff for the Naval Reserve unit attached to
the U.S. Special Operations Command at Mac-
Dill Air Force Base in Tampa, Fla. He is also
national marketing director for Koger Proper-
ties in Jacksonville, Fla.

9 6 & MICHAEL J. MICHAELES (see
65).

WILLIAM M. RASMUSSEN recently was
named art curator of the Virginia Historical
Society. He helps develop exhibits for the so-
ciety, which is in the midst of a project that will
double its size. Rasmussen had been assistant
curator of American art to 1900 at the Virginia
Museum of Fine Arts.

GUY M. TOWNLEY of Oklahoma City,
Okla., has a daughter, Kate, who is a sophomore
at Washington and Lee.

DR. JAMES M. TOWNSEND JR. was part
of a medical mission team that went to Hon-
duras. He recently finished a three-year term
as chief of obstetrics and gynecology at St. Fran-
cis Hospital in Charleston, S.C. He has been
in private practice in Charleston since 1977.

9 69 CHARLES F. BAGLEY III was

elected president of the West
Virginia State Bar in April. Bagley is a partner
in the law firm of Campbell, Woods, Bagley,
Emerson, McNeer & Herndon. Bagley lives in
Huntington with his wife, Kirsten, and son,
Gordon.

JOSEPH C. (JAY) CLARKE III recently
published Russia and Italy against Hitler: The
Bolshevik-Fascist Rapprochement of the 1930s. He
is assistant professor of history at Jacksonville
University in Jacksonville, Fla.

ARTHUR S. LORING is vice president and
general counsel of Fidelity Management &
Research Co. He is chairman of the Securities
and Exchange Commission Rules Committee
of the Investment Company Institute, and was
on the institute’s Board of Governors. He and
his wife, Vickie, live in Boston.

ROBERT W. MATHEWS is an associate
director of Barclay’s de Zoete Wedd in Manhat-
tan. He works in syndications of corporate and
real estate bank facilities. He lives with his wife,
Kate, and sons, William, 4, and Jack, 1.

 

THOMAS P. MITCHELL is an adolescent
and family psychotherapist, affiliated with the
Mid-Hudson Consultation Center. He serves
as the Director of Facility Residential Services
for the Mid-Hudson Community Residential
Homes of the state Division for Youth. He lives
in Hyde Park, N.Y.

SEAN O'CONNOR works as a propellant
development chemist for Hercules Aerospace,
in Salt Lake City, and is chairman of the Salt
Lake section of the American Chemical Society.
He has a doctorate in organic chemistry from
Clemson University.

GEORGE L. PATTERSON III received the
MAI designation, the highest level of profes-
sional appraisal achievement, from the Appraisal
Institute.

LT. COL. RALPH E. PEARCY II recently
graduated from the Naval War College in
Newport, R.I. He will be staff judge advocate
for the Marine Corps Recruit Depot in San
Diego, Calif. He has been on active duty in the
United States Marine Corps since 1969.

ROBERT E. PRICE recently rode in the “Hot-
ter ’N Hell Hundred” bicycle race in Wichita
Falls, Texas. He practices general civil law in
Houston, where he lives with his wife, Mahala,
and his two children, Embry and Haley.
’ z () DR. RICHARD B. ABRAMS is
assistant chief of dentistry and
director of dental education at Children’s

Hospital of Denver. He is involved in oncology
and neonatal development research.

GORDON W. BEALL, who is an architectural
photographer, photographed Washington and
Lee, Virginia Military Institute, and Lexington
for the October issue of Colonial Homes
magazine. He spent eight days in the spring tak-
ing the pictures.

PAUL D. BUSKEY orchestrated the Sarasota,
Fla., Fourth of July fireworks show with his
brother-in-law, WILLIAM McGINTY, ’81.
Buskey has a fireworks display business, Great
Balls of Fire Inc., that he runs part-time.

DR. CHARLES P. COWELL III teaches
chemistry at Sacramento City College.

ROBERT L. ENTZMINGER is teaching
Shakespeare and Milton this summer in Oxford,
England. He is working in the Rhodes College
program at St. John’s College, and is chairman
of the English Department at Rhodes.

DR. HENRY A. FLEISHMAN has been
elected to the board of the Rockingham County,
N.C., branch of the Bank and Trust Co., of
Wilson, N.C. He also attended Alumni
Weekend to see his father, ALVIN T.

FLEISHMAN, °41, receive a Distinguished
Alumnus Award.

WILLARD B. (BILL) WAGNER III has joined
the investment counseling firm of Investment
Advisors Inc. as senior vice president of client
contact and marketing. The firm is based in
Houston.

JOHN E. (JAY) WETSEL JR. was elected cir-
cuit court judge by the Virginia General
Assembly. He sits on the 26th Judicial Circuit,
in the northern Shenandoah Valley.

WILLIAM G. WIGLESWORTH III is on
leave from Drouin Secondary College, where
he teaches English, history, and outdoor educa-
tion. He and his wife, Debbie, are currently liv-
ing in Lexington, Ky., with their son, Daniel,

4, and daughter, Sophie, 1.
9 rf ] ROBERT M. GILL is president of
the American Council for Quebec
Studies, an association of American academics
with an interest in Canada and Quebec.

ROBERT R. JENSEN was recognized with the
Staff of Distinction Award by Fullerton College,
where he is head of the theatre department. He
produced 17 plays in 1990, and designed and
directed several others.

CMDR. CLARK B. LEUTZE is mission com-
mander for flight crew 11, U.S. Naval Reserve
Patrol Squadron 64, in Willow Grove, Pa. He

flies a P-3 “Orion” antisubmarine warfare patrol
plane. LT. DAVID WILLIAMS, ’80, is also

in flight crew 11, serving as a plane commander.
WILLIAM T. ANDERSON has

Te
been made a colonel in the U.S.

Marine Corps Reserve.

GLENN M. AZUMA is senior vice president
of Brookfield Development Corp. He and his
wife, Valerie, and two children, Pierce and
Paige, live in Evanston, Ill.

PETER P. HOMANS recently closed his
research firm by merging it with another firm.
He now works as an analyst and money
manager with the Zweig money management
organization, in Boston.

JOHN W. ROBINSON IV recently was named
chairman of the labor and employment section
for the Florida Bar Association. He is a board
certified civil trial lawyer and is a partner with
the Tampa law firm of Fowler, White, Gillen,
Boggs, Villareal & Banker, P.A.

RICHARD J. SPLITTORF has been named
vice president of sales of Metropolitan Sunday
Newspapers, Inc. He directs the national sales
effort of the Sunday Magazine Division and

Metro-Puck Comics Network Division. Split-
torf and his family reside in Wilton, Conn.

CHARLES L. WHITE is senior vice president
of Society National Trust Co. in Naples, Fla.
Society National is an affiliate of Society Corp.
of Cleveland.

E. BRUCE WILSIE JR.
was named manager of the
Roanoke, Va., office of
international insurance
broker Johnson & Higgins
of Virginia, Inc. Wilsie,
who is a vice president with
‘Johnson & Higgins, most
recently was sales manager

 

for the Rosalie office. He lives in Roanoke
with his wife, Schaumann, and their two
children.

9 7 3 DR. JOHN C. FULLERTON III

returned to his general surgery
practice in Cleburne, Texas, from Europe,
where his reserve unit (94th General Hospital)
was stationed during Operation Desert Storm.

ELLIS L. GUTSHALL was promoted to ex-
ecutive vice president of First Virginia Bank,
Southwest. He lives in Roanoke, Va., with his
wife, Lee Coleman, and their two sons, Col-
eman and Price.

WILLIAM H. McILHANY II is a talk show
host on KBLA-AM, a Los Angeles business
radio station. Also, his book K/andestine, which
began as his senior thesis at Washington and
Lee, was vital in the reopening of the murder
case of civil rights leader Medgar Evers after 27
years.

WILLIAM P. PEAK JR., who lives in Alexan-
dria, Va., works part-time as a radio awards
coordinator for the National Association of
Broadcasters. He is also writing a novel set in
the seventh century.

THE REV. FREDERICK E. ROBERTS
became pastor of Ocean View United Methodist
Church in June. He lives in Long Beach, N.C.

ROBERT W. SHERWOOD recently joined
Hooker Furniture Corp. in Martinsville, Va., as
director of credit.

BENJAMIN B. WEST, president and chief ex-
ecutive of West & Co. in Tampa, Fla., was
named Southeast advertising executive of the
year by Adweek magazine, a leading industry
trade journal. West & Co. was named Southeast

advertising agency of the year by the magazine.
9 7 4 JEFFREY D. BURKE is chief
financial officer for Bon Secours-St.

Mary’s Health Corp. He lives with his wife,
W&L 41

 

 

 

*t

‘ 7 ax,

Gray welcomes home the Dream Team after its successful trip to Tokyo

— |
eS

John Gray, ’76, helps make
Atlanta’s Olympic dream come true

When the International Olympic
Committee (IOC) announced its selec-
tion of Atlanta as the host for the 1996
Olympics last year, there were many
reasons given for the decision. But
one big reason may have been a lit-
tle group of teenagers that a W&L
alumnus helped put together.

That group, ‘‘Atlanta’s Dream
Team,’’ helped captivate IOC
members last September and earned
John Gray, ‘76, a good deal of
satisfaction for a job well done.

Gray is vice president of
marketing for RTM, Inc., a company
that owns over 350 Arby’s and Mrs.
Winner’s fast-food restaurants in the
Southeast.

“The AOC [Atlanta Organizing
Committee] felt it was important to
show the members of the IOC that the
young people of Atlanta truly sup-
ported the bid,”’ Gray said. ‘The idea
was that we wanted something that
went beyond the dollars and cents.”’

They got all of that and more.
They got the Dream Team.

Starting in May 1990, application
displays were put up in RTM’s Atlan-
ta area stores and over 3,000 applica-
tions were received for the 60 spots
on the Dream Team. The AOC se-

47

lected those 60 young people, and
RTM agreed to underwrite the group’s
expenses, which included a trip to
Tokyo in September for the |OC’s site
selection meeting. RTM raised money
for the effort by selling 50,000 T-shirts
promoting Atlanta’s Olympic bid.

The Atlanta group followed IOC
members almost everywhere, waving
banners, singing songs, and general-
ly doing anything and everything to
keep Atlanta on the collective mind
of the IOC.

“TAOC Chairman] Andrew Young
called the Dream Team the one last
thing that put Atlanta over the top to
get the Games,”’ Gray said.

Gray said the workload was much
more than he ever expected, but then
so were the results. You don’t win a
bid to host the Olympics every day.

And now that Atlanta has the
Olympics, Gray said the Dream Team
might have set a precedent for the
Atlanta games.

‘| think everyone would be in
favor of re-creating the positive feel-
ings of the Dream Team again during
the Olympics,’”’ Gray said. ‘It was a
real grass-roots effort. And we would
enjoy being a part of something like
that again.”’

 

 

42

W&L

Robin, and sons John, 8, and Jeffrey, six months
in Midlothian, Va.
DREW D. CALVIN is in Taipei, Taiwan,

teaching English as a second language.

ALAN K. FENDRICH is president of Fendrich
Marketing Group, a marketing consulting firm
in Newport News, Va.

GARY W. McAULIFFE works for CIBA-
GEIGY Corp. as the Richmond hospital sales
representative. He covers the Medical College
of Virginia and the University of Virginia medical
schools. In January, he won his company’s Cir-
cle of Excellence award for the sixth time.

R. PALMER TRICE, II is a Presbyterian
minister and a director of the Barnabas Center,
in North Carolina. He lives in Charlotte with
his wife, Lynne, and three children, Ashley,
Kathryn, and Palmer, III.

ra 5 RICHARD K. AMRHINE is

assistant city editor with The Free-
Lance Star in Fredericksburg, Va. He and wife,
Christine, live in Spotsylvania, Va. They were
married in April.

BENJAMIN L. BAILEY is a partner in the
Charleston, W.Va., office of the law firm of
Bowles, Rice, McDavid, Graff & Love.

DONALD D. HOGLE recently became adver-
tising manager for the consumer banking group
of Chemical Bank in New York.

DAVID H. SLATER has moved with his wife
and three children to Houston from Aberdeen,
Scotland. He is a production geoscience super-
visor with Mobil Corp.

STEVEN W. VAN AMBURGH works for the
Koll Company, a national real estate develop-
ment and investment company. He is respon-
sible for the Texas division of the company. He
lives in Dallas with his wife, Lee Ann, and their
three children, Sam, 5, Kate, 3, and Peter, 1.

9 7 6 THE REV. DAVID T. ANDER-
SON won the outstanding teacher
of the year award at St. Christopher's School
in Richmond. He teaches history, is the school
chaplain, and coaches the school lacrosse team.
He also earned a doctorate in theology from
Union Seminary in Richmond in the spring.

THOMAS E. CAMDEN was the principal
speaker at a Jan. 19 ceremony in Athens, Ga.,
marking the birth of Robert E. Lee. The
memorial observance was held in the Georgia
State Capitol building, and was sponsored by
the Georgia Division of the Sons of Confederate
Veterans. Camden is the director of the Univer-
sity of Georgia’s Hargett Rare Books and
Manuscripts Library.

 

HARRIET D. DORSEY received a special
appreciation award from the Housing Assistance
Council of Washington, D.C., for her legal work
on behalf of the Southwest Virginia Housing
Program. The program benefits low-income
families in southwest Virginia. Dorsey lives in
Blacksburg, Va.

FRANK L. DUEMMLER is a vice president
in asset recovery and loan restructuring with
Merrill Lynch & Co.

BRUCE B. DUNNAN is senior vice president
of investments at Dean Witter Reynolds. He
and his wife, Wendy, and their three daughters
live in Chevy Chase, Md.

R. BROOKE LEWIS is an aviation attorney in
Washington, D.C. He has been involved in
litigation resulting from the Avianca Airline
crash.

JOHN M. LUTTIG was nominated by Presi-
dent Bush to the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Ap-
peals in Richmond.

DENNIS OAKLEY is the managing director
of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company’s
foreign exchange trading and sales for Japan. He
and his wife, Carol, moved to Tokyo in
September, 1990.

B. CRAIG OWENS is senior vice president and
chief financial officer of Coca-Cola Beverages
S.A., a wholly owned bottler of the Coca-Cola
Co. in Paris.

WALTER E. VEGHTE III is a vice president
working for Merrill Lynch & Co. He lives in
Cranbury, N.J., with his wife, Beth, and their

two children, Tyler and Sarah.

9 7 7 MICHAEL D. ARMSTRONG
runs GIMBORN U.S., an organiza-

tion that manufactures products for veternarians

and pet stores. He lives in Atlanta.

BARRY O. BARLOW is vice president with
Hilliard Lyons Inc. He and his wife, Margaret,
and children, Tiffany, Grace, Frank, and Mac,
live in Louisville, Ky.

WILLIAM J. COPLE III has been named to
the Executive Board for the National Capital
Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America. He
is an attorney with the Washington, D.C., office
of the Atlanta law firm of King & Spalding.

JOSEPH D. DUBUQUE II operates the largest
kitchen and bath showroom in the St. Louis
area. It is the latest division of Plumbers Sup-
ply Co., a company that has been run by the
Dubuque family since 1924.

STEPHEN D. GOOD joined the Dallas law
firm of Gardere & Wynne as a tax partner. He

previously was a tax partner at the Dallas firm
of Hughes & Luce.

THOMAS H. HUNTER III is assistant general
counsel with the Public Utility Commission of
Texas.

LEON F. JOYNER JR. is the marketing direc-
tor and pension expert for the Martin E. Segal
Company’s newest office, in West Palm Beach,
Fla.

WALTER H. KANSTEINER III works for the
Secretary of State on the policy planning staff
with specific responsibilities for Africa.

DR. ROBERT E. OTTENRITTER is an
obstetrician-gynecologist. He makes his home
in Ruxton, Md.

MAJ. ANGELO B. SANTELLA is assigned to
the U.S. Army Southern European Task Force
in Vicenza, Italy.

WILLIAM M. WATSON JR. was elected vice
president and secretary of Jefferson Bankshares,
Inc., of Charlottesville. He was also elected

assistant to the chairman of Jefferson National
Bank.

THOMAS P. WRIGHT (see THOMAS M.
WRIGHT, °47).

9 7 & PETER J. ABITANTE has been

promoted to director of information
for the National Football League in New York.
He is responsible for public relations for the
NFL and for the league’s American Bow! series
of international games. He had been director
of information for the American Football Con-
ference for the past six years.

TRAVIS E. BASS has been promoted to senior
territory sales manager with Georgia-Pacific
Corp. He and his wife, Laurie, their son, Ed,
and daughter Elizabeth, have moved to Burl-
ington, N.C.

DR. M. DANIEL BECQUE is an exercise
physiologist at Southern Illinois University in
Carbondale. He presented a research paper at
the American College of Sports Medicine’s
meeting in May.

ARTHUR A. (LEX) BIRNEY JR. recently
finished working on a 27-hole golf course built
near Queenstown, Md., by Washington Brick
& Terra Cotta Co. Queenstown Harbor Golf
Links, located on Maryland’s Eastern Shore,
features two-and-a-half miles of waterfront golf.

The home of RODNEY M. COOK JR. in
Atlanta was featured in the March 1991 issue
of Architectural Digest. \t was the first published
article about his design work. Shortly after the

article’s appearance, he was commissioned to
design the Cropsey Museum in New York.

CRAIG B. FORRY is an associate with the law
firm of Bolton, Dunn & Yates in Santa Monica,
Calif.

MAJ. H. ALLEN IRISH recently returned from
Saudi Arabia, where he served in the Judge Ad-
vocate General’s Corps. He is environmental
counsel for the National Paint and Coatings
Association in Washington, D.C.

DR. ROBERT H. JACKSON was recently
promoted to assistant professor of medicine at
Louisiana State University Medical Center in
Shreveport, La.

PETER C. KEEFE has joined Avenir Corp.,
a money management firm in Washington,
D.C., as vice president and portfolio manager.

ROBERT B. (ROB) McMICHAEL is a copy
supervisor at M.E.D. Communications, a
pharmecutical advertising agency in Wood-
bridge, N.J.

JEFFREY L. SEGLIN is the senior editor of
Inc. magazine. He lives in Boston.

L. SCOTT SHELTON recently formed L.S.
Shelton & Associates, a real estate brokerage
firm specializing in Washington, D.C., area
properties.

DR. DAVID T. TRICE is a partner in Mobile
(Ala.) Cardiology Associates. He and his wife,
Suzanne, have a two-year-old son, David Jr.

STEVEN C. YEAKEL left his postion as chief
of staff for Gov. Stan Stephens of Montana to
become director of the governor’s Office of

Budget and Program Planning.

9 d 9 MICHAEL W. BUSBEY is district
sales manager for the Denver office

of Wallace Computer Services Inc. He and his

wife, Sandy, have two children, 4-year-old

Christina and 1-year-old Nicholas.

J. PETER CLEMENTS has been promoted to
senior vice president of the Bank of Southside
Virginia. He lives in Carson, Va.

JOHN E. COFFEY is owner and director of
Hazel & Thomas. He lives in Alexandria, Va.,
with his wife, Suzy, and children, Erin, 3, and
Donald, 1.

R. CHRIS COLLINS is a senior loan review
officer with SunTrust Banks Inc. He recently
moved to Orlando, Fla.

JAMES O. DAVIS III was named the 20th
most effective member of the 120-person
Florida House of Representatives by the Miami
Herald. The democrat from Tampa, after just

W&L 43

 

 

 

Kennady stands at the Everest base camp in the Himalayas

Hubbard Kennady, ’80, makes most
of his most excellent adventures

While the rest of the world is ask-
ing ‘‘Why?’’ Hubbard Kennady, ’80,
is asking ‘‘Why not?” and then going
out and doing it.

Kennady, an attorney in College
Station, Texas, occasionally finds a bit
of wanderlust gripping his soul. The
results often are excellent enough to
make even Bill and Ted proud.

Kennady’s adventures have taken
him everywhere from Scottish castles
to the base camp at Mount Everest,
and he has met individuals as diverse
as the Marquise of Ailsa in Scotland,
a Nepalese pilot who learned to fly
in Texas, and Sir Edmund Hillary.

Kennady has taken a trip around
the world, and last year, he made an
expedition to Nepal.

As one might expect, the trip
around the world produced more
than its share of adventures. In addi-
tion to meeting the marquise and hav-
ing tea with her in Scotland, Kennady
was shot at in Belfast, escaped from
a barroom brawl in Spain, and
trekked through the Himalayas.

Still lured by Everest and
Kathmandu, Kennady and his wife,
Monta, set out on their own Everest
expedition last year. The trip centered
around a trek to the Everest base
camp, some 13,000 feet above sea

level. The Kennadys were able to
meet Hillary, who also was hiking in
the region on his way to dedicating
a museum near the base camp.

The meeting completed one more
memorable Kennady trip, trips that
Kennady said in a large way are tied
to his W&L experience.

“It really is like school,’’ Kennady
said. ‘I’m seeking those same types
of challenges in the real world.”’

Kennady said his classmates pro-
vide a sort of unspoken challenge that
spurs him to these adventures.

“The people | met at W&L and
WAL itself really had a strong impact
on my life,’’ he said. ‘‘There’s just a
certain level of excellence that we all
expect from each other.”’

So what possibly could be next?
Well, Kennady said he has talked
Monta into a trip to explore the more
remote mountain regions of Bhutan,
Borneo, and Sumatra.

The way Kennady sees it,
everyone’s been given a gift of life,
the challenge is to live it well.

‘It’s all about wanting to live life
to the fullest,’’” he said. ‘‘“Sometimes
it’s good, sometimes it’s bad, but you
have to make it into the best you can.
You have to catch some adventure
wherever you can find it.”’

 

 

44

W&L

three years in office, was described as “a relative
newcomer quietly gaining respect of peers.”

JAMES H. FLIPPEN III is a partner with the
Portsmouth, Va., law firm of Cooper, Spong &
Davis. He lives in Norfolk with his wife, Bar-
bara, and his two children, Kathyrn Elizabeth,
4, and James IV, 2.

STEPHEN Y. McGEHEE is a vice president
in middle market commercial lending in the
Bank of Boston’s Atlanta representation office.

R. BRUCE McPHAIL is chief financial officer
of Marsala-McPhail Group Inc. The Baltimore-
based company sells and distributes heating and
cooling controls and computer-based control
systems throughout the middle Atlantic region.

WILLIAM J. SEIDEL has been promoted to
director of taxes with Wheat, First Securities
Inc. in Richmond. He is a vice president and
previously had been tax manager.

DR. KEITH E. STEELE recently began a
residency in veterinary pathology at the Armed
Forces Institute of Pathology in Washington,
D.C. He had been serving as a veterinary of-
ficer with the 142nd Medical Battalion at Fort
Clayton, Panama.

JOHN C. TOMPKINS is a broker with Alex
Brown & Sons, Inc. He lives in Lutherville,
Md., with his wife, Sara, and three children,
Jacky, 7, Scotty, 5, and Julia, 1.

CHRISTOPHER H. VOLK is vice president
and director of research for Franchise Finance
Corp. of America, in Phoenix, Ariz. He and his
wife, Hollis, had a daughter, Emma Constance,
on July 17, 1990.

NEIL J. (CHIP) WELCH JR. is an attorney
with Akin, Gump, Strauss & Associates in
Washington, D.C. He lives in Herndon, Va.,
with his wife, Christine, and daughter,
Katherine, 1.

The Houston law firm DOUGLAS B. WYATT
helped found in 1985 has expanded its prac-
tice with the opening of a Dallas office and a
new tax litigation section. Looper, Reed, Mark
& McGraw specializes in commercial litigation
relating to energy and banking, and corporate
transactions.

’8() JEFFREY A. BARTLETT was

promoted to vice president of in-
vestments with M&I Capital Markets Group.
He is responsible for making venture capital and
leveraged buyout investments in middle market
companies located in the Great Lakes states.
He lives in Milwaukee.

CAPT. EDWARD L. BOWIE JR. is assigned
to duty at the Pentagon. He and his wife,

 

Denise, have a daughter, Hilary, 1. The fami-
ly lives in Burke, Va.

JACQUELYN K. BOYDEN is healthcare
operations legal counsel for Inova Health
Systems, a comprehensive healthcare system
located in northern Virginia.

WILLIAM E. BROWNING is an attorney with
Pennzoil Co. He lives with his wife, Mary, and
daughter, Mary Bell, 1, in Houston.

ROBERT B. EARLE is a senior consultant for
Deloitte & Touche. He was also recently pro-
moted to lieutenant commander in the U.S.
Naval Reserves.

JOHN C. HAMILTON
was named vice president
of South Carolina National
Bank in April. He had been
manager of compensation
) for SCN’s | statewide
_. personnel department.
“= Hamilton also is state chair-
man of the American Compensation Associa-
tion and an instructor with the American In-
stitute of Banking.

 

WILLIAM F. HILL was elected shareholder
and director of Ward & Smith, P.A. He prac-
tices in the Greenville, N.C., office, specializ-
ing in representing financial institutions in the
area of creditors’ rights.

RICHARD K. HOHN is a partner in the
Philadelphia law firm of Gallagher, Reilly &
Lachat. He lives with his wife, Linda, and son,
James, in Havertown, Pa.

J. McDONALD KENNEDY JR. is lead analyst
for USF&G Corp. He and his wife, Caroline,
and children, Jack, 4, and Hannah, 1, live in
Baltimore.

PETER C. KINGSBERY is a senior consultant
with Price Waterhouse, specializing in financial
package software. He and his wife, Christine,
and their two children, Kyle and Ian, live in
Havertown, Pa.

DR. EDWARD C. MORRISON is practicing
vascular surgery in Charleston, S.C.

JOSEPH D. PINOTTI received a master’s
degree in business administration from The

Darden School at the University of Virginia in
May.

ALAN A. SANTAANGELO left the New Jersey
Attorney General's office after ten years service
as a deputy attorney general. He is joining a new
law firm in Somerville, N.J., as a partner.

CAPT. MARK D. SMITH teaches a seminar
on national security at the U.S. Military
Academy at West Point. He is an assistant pro-
fessor there.

BRUCE W. WHIPPLE works as a mortgage
officer for Commercial Preservation Corp. in
Westchester County, N.Y. The corporation is
a consortium of banks and life insurance com-
panies that finance housing.

LT. CMDR. STEPHEN B. WHITE is
stationed at the Naval Legal Service Office in
Subic Bay, Phillipines. He was recalled to ac-
tive duty in connection with Operation Desert
Storm.

LT. DAVID WILLIAMS (see CMDR.
CLARK B. LEUTZE, ’71).

MITCHELL S. WYNNE is president of
Wynne Petroleum Co. and managing partner
of MSW Exploration Co. He has an explora-
tion agreement with WILLIAM PRITCHARD,
’80, and they are pursuing projects in Arkan-

sas, Louisiana, and Texas.
*& 1 CAPT. NICHOLAS J. BRADY
serves as assistant state aviation of-

ficer for the New Jersey Army National Guard.

MARGARET H. (MEG) CAMPBELL is an at-
torney with the Atlanta law firm of Ogletree,
Deakins & Associates. She lives in Atlanta with
her husband, Richard Gitomer, and daughter
Austin Campbell Gitomer, 1.

TODD H. CHISHOLM is a physician’s assis-
tant in psychiatry at Marquette General Hospital
in Marquette, Mich.

JAMES T. COYLE JR. is a partner with Atkin-
son & Pitts., a certified public accounting and
computer consulting firm in Atianta. He and his
wife, Cheryl, have a son, Evan, 1.

CHANNING M. HALL III is practicing law
in Williamsburg, Va. He had served as at-
torney/advisor to the Hon. Laurence Whalen
of the U.S. Tax Court in Washington, D.C.

JACK P. AY) HOPPER is corporate litigation
counsel for Stewart & Stevenson Inc., in
Houston.

ROBERT W. (TODD) HYDE JR. was recent-
ly promoted to senior environmental attorney
at Merck & Co., Inc. He lives with his wife and
two children in Chatham, N.].

DR. WILLIAM J. B. McGINTY (see PAUL
D. BUSKEY, °70).

THOMAS M. MILLHISER recently has been
named chairman of the Virginia Capital chapter
of the American Red Cross. He lives in Rich-
mond, Va.

CHRISTOPHER S. O’CONNOR works for
The First Boston Corp. as a corporate bond
trader. He lives in New York City.

ROBERT S. PALMER (see MICHAEL D.
DRUSANO, °89).

MARK W. SCULLY is a consulting actuary for
Tillinghast. He lives in Arlington, Va., with his
wife, Ieke, and son, Brendan, 1.

JAMES K. VINES practices environmental law
with the Atlanta firm of King & Spalding.

DR. CHARLES H. WARNER has begun a
radiology practice in Roanoke, Va.. He ac-
cepted a position with Radiology Associates of
Roanoke, and works in Roanoke Memorial
Hospital, where he did his internship in
1985-86.

9 & 2 LESTER L. BATES III pub-
lished an article in the Journal of the

Florida Mortgage Bankers Association.
GEORGE U. (GARRY) CARNEAL III works

as associate general counsel for the Group
Health Association of America, Inc., in
Washington, D.C.

DR. HEYWARD H. FOUCHE JR. is in his
final year of residency in anesthesiology at the
Medical University of South Carolina, in
Charleston.

BENJAMIN F. JARRATT II is a public affairs
consultant to the Business Roundtable and the
White House Council on Environmental Quality
in Washington, D.C.

CAPT. JAMES D. KIRBY is a signal captain
in the U.S. Army, serving as the U.S. Army ex-
change officer to the Royal Australian School
of Signals. He and his wife, Becky, and son,
Patrick, 1, live in Melbourne, Australia.

JOHN B. McKEE III has gone into indepen-
dent farming. He had been working for his
father for the last five years, growing cotton on
the family’s land near Friar’s Point, Miss.

J. STRATTON MOORE is president of New
England Flag & Banner, Inc., a 100-year-old
company based in Boston.

KELLY J. NIERNBERGER works in person-
nel administration for the Edison Electric In-
stitute in Washington, D.C. He is also pursu-
ing a master’s degree in human resource
management at Marymount University. He and
his wife, Marie, live in Alexandria, Va.

CHARLES F. RANDOLPH continues to be
an assistant vice president and relationship
manager at ABN AMRO Bank, N.V. in
Houston. He is responsible for maintaining and
developing corporate banking clients in
Oklahoma and Houston.

W&L 45

 

 

 

‘81, ’85L,

Poole,
learning to lead
in Md. House

D. Bruce Poole, ‘81, 85L,
remembers that it took “all of about
five seconds” for him to accept the
surprise offer to be majority leader in
the Maryland House of Delegates.

It is one of the many quick deci-
sions the up-and-coming young politi-
cian has had to make since being of-
fered the job, and it’s one of the many
right ones he’s made, too.

Poole, who is in his second four-
year term representing Washington
County, became the youngest person
ever to hold the majority leader posi-
tion when he was named to the job
by House Speaker Clayton Mitchell in
December 1990.

It was a quick development for the
rising Maryland leader, who got his
early experience on the House
Judiciary Committee. In fact, when
Mitchell came to offer him the majori-
ty leader’s job, Poole thought he was
being offered the chairmanship of the
committee instead.

“| tried to hide my disbelief,’’
Poole said. ‘| think | thought about
it for all of five seconds.”’

Although Poole continues to prac-
tice in his Hagerstown law firm, he hit
the ground running as majority leader
and hasn’t let up much since.

‘I’ve spent a lot of time on my
feet, learning as much as | can,” he
said. ‘‘Whether it’s a TV interview,
a radio sound bite, a jury argument,
or a debate on the floor, each has its
own nuances.”

Poole also has had to win over
more than his share of doubters,
especially some veterans who weren't
prepared to listen to a youngster from
Western Maryland, a section of the
state that hadn’t had a majority leader
in 20 years.

“| knew that my lack of ex-
perience would be a problem,”’ he
said. ‘‘| knew going in that | would
have plenty to learn and that | would
make some mistakes, and that has
been true. But I’ve learned some
things, and | think some of the
veterans who were skeptical of me are
now on my side.”’

With headache-inducing issues
like abortion, the war on drugs, and
redistricting staring him in the face
everyday, Poole admits the push-and-
pull of politics is a grind.

‘| love it, but it’s a bear,”’ he said.
“You learn that you’re not going to be
able to please everybody. As long as
| can see the positives in it, I'll stick
with it.”

With all of this success this early,
Poole’s name naturally is getting at-
tention when bigger things are men-
tioned. He has decided against a run
for Congress in 1992.

‘I’m committed to stay on as ma-
jority leader until 1994, and then
we'll see,”” he said. ‘‘My inclination
right now is to stay in state govern-
ment. But what’s hot today might not
be hot in three or four years.”’

The job has meant plenty of long
nights, and it’s somewhat amazing
that the active legislator found time in
July to get married to the former
Kathleen Graham.

“It’s been great,’’ he said. ‘But
then | think | gave her as much time
to decide as | did to decide on ma-
jority leader.”’

 

 

46

WL

JAMES L. SHEPHERD is senior attorney with
Travsco Energy Co. He lives in Houston with
his wife, Patricia, and son, Cameron Davis, 1.

ROBERT M. WAYMOUTH is an assistant
professor of chemistry at Stanford University.

NEIL J. WELCH JR. (see ’79).
DR. JOHN ANDERSON (JACK) WELLS III

recently completed his residency in op-
thamology at Emory University. He is current-
ly taking a one-year fellowship in retinal diseases
at Moorfields Eye Hospital in London. He lives
there with his wife, Muffie, his daughter,
Whaley, 3, and son, John, 1.

JOHN P. WINANS is the regional sales direc-
tor for Technology Funding, a venture capital
firm based in the San Francisco Bay area.

*& 3 EVANS S. ATTWELL works as

an associate in the investment
banking department of Texas Commerce Bank
in Houston.

LESLIE G. DILLINGHAM was named one
of four “Local Heroes” for 1990 by Jacksonville’s
public television station for her pro bono en-
vironmental law practice.

DANIEL M. EINSTEIN is chief financial of-
ficer and treasurer of Rosenfield, Einstein &
Associates. He and his wife, Elizabeth, and son,
Andrew, 1, live in Greenville, S.C., where he
is chairman of the W&L Alumni Admissions
Program.

DONNA M. GRAY is a foreign service officer
in Guatemala. She is responsible for all foreign
aid contracts in Belize, Costa Rica, Mexico,
Panama, and Guatemala.

THOMAS A. HARRISON was named the
1990-91 outstanding young citizen by the Grove
City (Pa.) Area Jaycees. He was recognized for
his work with Grove City Area Literary Coun-
cil and for his work as editor of the A/iied News.

THOMAS H. HUNTER III (see °77).
R. BROOKE LEWIS (see °76).

DANIEL H. MASON is an attorney with
Northeast Kentucky Legal Services. He was
recently appointed to the Kentucky Attorney
General’s Task Force on Domestic Violence.

JACKSON R. SHARMAN III is an associate
at the Washington, D.C., law firm of Covington
& Burling. He does environmental work and
white-collar defense work. He recently has writ-
ten an article titled “The Listener, The Separa-
tion of Powers, and the Ethics of Judicial
Speech,” published in Exhics In The Courts: Poltc-
ing Behavior In The Federal Judicary. He and his
wife, Elizabeth, live in Washington.

 

CHRISTOPHER S. STOKES is an associate
with the Washington, D.C., law firm of Wilkie,
Farr & Gallagher. He specializes in international
trade law.

RODNEY E. TAYLOR is a partner in High
Peak Sportswear, a silk screen business with
stores in Lynchburg and Charlottesville, Va. He
lives in Amherst, Va., with his wife, Anne, and
daughter, Emily Anne, 1.

HOWARD T. WALL III is a partner in the
Nashville, Tenn., law firm of Waller, Landsen,
Dortch & Davis. He is a member of the firm’s
corporate group and is chairman of the firm’s

health care working group.

’ & 4 ALFRED S. BRYANT JR. works
as an account executive for J.

Walter Thompson Advertising Agency in Ham-

burg, Germany. He currently is involved with

the Kellogg’s account.

SCOTT JOHN FITZGERALD passed the
Virginia bar exam in February. He had been
practicing law in New Jersey.

JAMES L. GREEN joined the law firm of
Miller, Kistler & Campbell. He specializes in
wills, trusts, and taxation. He lives in State Col-
lege, Pa.

CAPT. JAMES D. GRIFFIN recently reported
for duty with the Marine Tactical Electronic
Warfare Squadron in Cherry Point, N.C. He
joined the Marine Corps in January 1990.

TODD A. HOWE is attending Temple Univer-
sity, pursuing a doctorate in sociology. He had
been a visiting professor in anthropology and
sociology at Lincoln University.

FORREST N. JENKINS II works for SCANA
Corp., a public utility holding company. He
lives in Columbia, S.C.

RICHARD KOPELMAN recently joined the
Adanta law firm of Rand & Ezor, P.C. He prac-
tices personal injury litigation.

DR. SCOTT D. PRYSI is practicing medicine
in Honolulu. He has been there since 1989.

RICHARD C. SWAGLER JR. founded the
Media Law Bulletin, a monthly newsletter in-
forming journalists of media law cases. He
recently graduated from Stetson University Col-
lege of Law.

MATTHEW G. THOMPSON JR. has joined
the corporate finance department as an associate
at Wheat, First Securities in Richmond.

J. BERRY TRIMBLE has been named ex-
ecutive director of the Democratic House and
Senate Council and the Democratic Congres-
sional Dinner Committee.

DR. ROBERT B. TUCKER JR. is in his last
year of a four-year residency in radiology at the
University of Tennesse Medical Center in
Knoxville. He recently presented a research
paper at the 91st meeting of the American
Roentgen Ray Society in Boston.

SOLOMON L. VAN METER received a
master’s degree in business from The Darden
School at the University of Virginia in May.

THOMAS P. WOHLFARTH is senior ac-
countant for Virginia Power, in Richmond,
where he lives with his wife, Beth.

PAUL C. ZIEBERT is an associate with the
Chicago law firm of McCullough, Campbell &

Lane.
*& 5 CAMERON J. ADAMS is in the

fixed income sales and trading
training class at First Boston. He recently
graduated from the business school at Colum-
bia University.

W. LANDON BANFIELD IV graduated from
the University of Baltimore’s graduate business
school in May.

T. SCOTT BUCEY is an associate with the
Cincinnati law firm of Taft, Stettinius &
Hollister. His emphasis is on creditors’ rights
and bankruptcy reorganizations.

JAMES T. COBB JR. recently joined Spelman,
Baird and Warner, a commerical mortgage bank-
ing firm in Denver.

HENRY W. DEWING received a master’s
degree in business administration from The
Darden School at the University of Virginia in
May.

ROBERT P. DORAIS was promoted to junior
auditor at Security Pacific's Corporate Credit
Group Real Estate Lending Division. He is also
a vocalist in the Musician’s Fellowship of
Calvary Chapel of Cypress, Calif.

VIRGINIA GREER is an associate with the law
firm of Dennis, Corby, Porter & Thornton in
Atlanta.

E. GIBSON KERR works in First Wachovia
Bank & Trust Company's real estate investment
department, overseeing commerical projects
throughout the U.S. He is based in Winston-
Salem, N.C.

MARK D. KNOBLOCH is an assistant vice
president with Maryland National Bank in
Baltimore. He works in commercial real estate
finance.

CHRISTOPHER M. LILLJA is assistant stage
manager for the Richmond Symphony.

JAMES N. NANCE is an associate with the law
firm of Searcy, Denney, Scavola, Barnhart &
Denney in West Palm Beach, Fla.

ROBERT D. PEARSON is a commercial
mortgage loan originator with W. Lyman Case
& Company in Cincinnati.

JEFFERY S. REICHERT was promoted to in-
vestment officer at Teachers Insurance and An-
nuity Association in New York.

DR. WILLIAM R. SANDERSON is in his
third year of residency training in urologic
surgery at the Louisiana State University
Medical Center in Shreveport, La.

J. ROBERT SPATIG II is the assistant dean
of upper school admissions and director of finan-
cial aid at Cranbrook Schools, a day and boar-
ding school in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

WILLIAM R. TOMMINS is an assistant vice
president in the Southern Fairfield/Westchester
County Commercial Lending Group of The
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company. He is
also currently pursuing an M.B.A. degree at the
Fordham University Graduate School of
Business Administration.

DAVID F. WEBBER is an associate with the
law firm of Lyons, Pipes & Cook, P.C. He and

his wife, Julie, live in Mobile, Ala.
"86 CAPT. MARK A. BERTOLINI

was promoted to his current rank
of captain in the U.S. Army on May 1, 1991.
He then attended the armor officer advanced
course in Fort Knox, Ky.

DAVID M. BUTLER (see MICHAEL D.
DRUSANO, ’89).

JOHN D. deHOLL JR. has started a residency
in urology at the University of Virginia medical
school. He graduated from the medical school
in May.

DANIEL F. DuPRE is an associate with the
Atlanta law firm of Smith, Currie & Hancock.

MICHAEL D. HAMMERSLAG joined Joseph
Hilton & Associates Inc., a commercial real
estate brokerage, as director of analysis and
systems. He is also finishing his master’s of
science degree in real estate at New York
University.

JOHN M. MOODY II is practicing bankrupt-
cy law in Nashville.

BRIAN J. OLIGER is morning drive personality
on WNWV-FM in Cleveland. He also works
as a videographer for WUAB-T'V in Cleveland.
Oliger’s video work has been seen on CNN,
“America’s Most Wanted,” and “The CBS Even-
ing News.”

W&L 47

KENNETH ALAN PERDUE was appointed
counsel to the president of Shepherd College
in Shepherdstown, W.Va. He will advise the
president on legal matters and will be respon-
sible for contracts, grants, and areas of the col-
lege dealing with administration of government
rules, regulations and higher education policies.

CHARLES A. (TONY) PFAFF spent eight
months in Saudi Arabia and Iraq during Opera-
tion Desert Storm.

W. WHITAKER RAYNER works at the law
firm of Watkins, Ludlam & Stennis. He and his
wife, Debbie, and their son, Wesley, 1, live in
Ridgeland, Miss.

JOHN R. RILEY works as a researcher for US4
Today in Arlington, Va. He lives in McLean, Va.

GERALD DANIEL SHEPHERD is an
associate in the Melbourne, Australia, office of
the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell.

*& 7 TRACY A. BACIGALUPO is an

associate with the law firm of
Weinberg and Green in Baltimore. She works
in the corporate department and specializes in
mergers and acquisitions.

LOUIS A. CELLA is vice president of
Southern Real Estate and Financial Company
in St. Louis. He is a member of the Missouri
and Arkansas Bar.

ALEXANDER A. CHAMBERS is attending
the University of Georgia Law School.

BRANDON D. DAVIS works as a lighting and
design technician for the Alliance Theater in
Atlanta.

DONNA DE BONTE is a development
engineer with Milliken Specialty Chemical in
Spartanburg, S.C. She works in the plastics ad-
ditives area. G. ASHLEY ALLEN, ’65, is the
business manager for Milliken Specialty
Chemical.

PETER W. HULL is an assistant United States
attorney in Burlington, Vt.

JOHN R. MAASS works as a senior claims
representative for Progressive Casualty In-
surance Co., in Richmond. He also serves as
a Ist Lt. in the U.S. Army Reserves, 80th
Division.

DR. JEFFERY S. MANDAK began his
residency training in internal medicine at the
Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in
June. ,

‘THOMAS B. PETERS is a corporate finance
associate with Hambrecht & Quist Inc. in San
Francisco. In May, he received a master’s

48 W&L

degree in business from The Darden School at
the University of Virginia.

DR. ANDREW M. REIBACH graduated from
medical school in June. He is doing his residen-
cy at St. Mary Coruin Hospital in Pueblo, Colo.

DENNIS C. SAMUEL JR. is beginning his
fourth year of medical school at the Medical
College of Virginia. He lives in Richmond.

DEBORAH L. SINER works at the Legal Aid
Society in Brooklyn. She is a senior attorney.

MAROUIS M. SMITH III was named 1990's
District Manager of the Year for the B.F.
Goodrich brand of the Uniroyal Goodrich Tire
Co. It was the second consecutive year he won
the award.

MATTHEW H. STEILBERG is assistant vice
president for First Union National Bank in Cary,
N.C.

DR. M. CHRISTOPHER TALLEY graduated
from the Univeristy of Virginia’s school of
medicine in May. He has begun his residency
in orthopedics at Shands Hospital at the Univer-
sity of Florida.

ANDREW J. TARTAGLIONE is participating
in a clincal externship at the Charles Still
Regional Medical Center in Jefferson City, Mo.

PAUL J. VAIL has established a trading and
commercial enquiry firm in Bangkok, Thailand,
called The Duxbury Co., Ltd.

1ST LT. PAUL A. YOUNGMAN was a recon-
naissance platoon leader with the 3rd Armored
Division during Operation Desert Storm. He
was awarded the Bronze Star for valor in arm-
ed combat.

9 ss 8 PHILLIP H. BUCHANAN is an

associate in the law firm of Willcox
& Savage, P.C. in Norfolk, Va. His primary
practice groups are railroad litigation, construc-
tion litigation, and sports law.

DONNA AMBLER DAVIS is a partner in the
Chapel Hill, N.C., law firm of Levine, Stewart
& Davis.

MARK S. DAVIS is an associate with the Nor-
folk law firm of McGuire, Woods, Battle &
Booth.

WILLIAM D. DUNN JR. is moving back to
his hometown of Lousiville, Ky., from Alexan-
dria, Va. He had been living in Alexandria since
February 1989.

DOUGLAS F. ELLIOTT II graduated from
the University of Alabama’s Manderson
Graduate School of Business. He is working for
AmSouth Bank in Birmingham, Ala.

MATTHEW T. HARRINGTON is a graduate
student at Johns Hopkins University, working
towards a master’s in international economics
and African studies.

WILLIAM S. (SANDY) HARRISON JR. is
assistant director of sales for Electronic Com-
ponent Distributor in Columbia, Md. He also
played his second year of professional box
lacrosse with the Pittsburgh Bulls.

CHRISTOPHER E. HASKETT earned an
M.B.A. from the University of Edinburgh.

JAMES R. LANCASTER recently finished his
second year of law school at the University of
‘Texas. He is clerking this summer in the Dallas
offices of two firms, Akin, Gump, Strauss,
Hauer & Feld, and Haynes & Boone.

JOHN C. McDONALD JR. is head of the mid-
dle school and an upper school history teacher
at Bayside Academy in Daphne, Ala. In the
summer, he works as a pilot for the Lake
George Steamboat Co. in upstate New York.

DAVID G. McLEOD is a second-year student
at Owen Graduate School of Management at
Vanderbilt University. He is concentrating on
marketing.

CHRISTOPHER T. MUNSEY won a second
place award for feature writing from the
Maryland/Delaware/Washington, D.C. Press
Association. He works as a reporter for the An-
napolis Capital. He also teaches basic sailing for
the Chesapeake Sailing School.

SAMUEL S. OBENSHAIN recently received
his master’s degree in special education from
the University of New Mexico. He is co-director
of the Adaptive Behavior Learning Environ-
ment, a program for emotionally disturbed
adolescents in the Albuquerque public schools.

ALEXANDER G. REEVES JR. graduated
from the Sotheby’s American Works of Art Pro-
gram in June.

SCOTT D. RIPPEON finished his first year
teaching chemistry and physical science at
Tower Hill School, in Wilmington, Del.

B. FLETCHER ROBERTS JR. is an accoun-
tant. He lives in Louisville, Ky.

J. BRADLEY SHAW has been promoted to ac-
count supervisor at Ketchum Public Relations
in New York City. He works solely on the firm’s
American Express account.

NORMAN Z. SIGLER recently completed an
internship in finance at the Ford Motor Co. in
Dearborn, Mich. He is in his second year in the
M.B.A. program at the University of Michigan
in Ann Arbor.

 

ig te i i la i i ee fF ails

ee ee ee eS oe

MARTHA S.L. SMITH is taking care of
daughters, Elizabeth, 2, and Carter, 1. The
family lives in Roanoke, Va.

STEPHEN C. SZCZECINSKI is an assistant
site manager with Thomas P. Harkins Inc., a
general contractor serving Baltimore,
Washington, and northern Virginia.

JAMES K. VINES (see °81).

BRIAN W. WALKER works for KPMG
Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft in Munich,

Germany.

KEVIN S. WEBB works as a property manager
for Cabot, Cabot & Forbes. He lives in
Baltimore with his cousin, LANDON BAN-
FIELD, ’85.

FLOYD M. (BUCK) WILEY III is a graduate
student at the University of Georgia, where he

is working toward a J.D./M.B.A.

’ 4 9 WILLIAM O. BIRCHFIELD III
attends the University of Florida.

He is pursuing a master of accounting degree

with an emphasis on tax.

DANA J. BOLDEN works as an account ex-
ecutive for the Atlanta-based public relations
firm of Cohn & Wolfe. He lives in Atlanta.

ROBERT F. BURCH works as an international
sales representative for Alexander's Moving &
Storage, an agent of Atlas Van Lines.

STEPHEN R. CHANCE is pursuing a master’s
degree in business at Georgia State University
in Atlanta.

JAMES D. CLARK III lives in Harlinger,
Texas, with his wife, Heidi, and daughter, Alex-

andra, 1.

ELIZABETH A. CUMMINS works as a
legislative and governmental affairs assistant
with the law firm of Bass, Berry & Sims in
Nashville, Tenn. She monitors legislation and
assists with lobbying efforts in the Tennesse
General Assembly.

MICHAEL D. DRUSANO works in the com-
mercial real estate division of First National
Bank of Maryland. He works with W&L alum-
ni DAVID M. BUTLER, ’86, and ROBERT
S. PALMER, ’81.

J]. DAVID EMRICH works as a surety bond
underwriter for Chubb & Son Inc. in Phila-
delphia.

THOMAS F. FLOURNOY IV is pursuing an
M.B.A. from Emory University.

MICHAEL A. FORRESTER has been pro-
moted to junior associate at Dean Witter Invest-
ment Banking in New York City.

G. STUART GEISEL is in sales for Aris-
Isotoner, a division of Sara Lee Corp., in New
York City. He lives in Plainsboro, N.J.

G. BRADLEY GOTTSEGEN is a professional

musician in New Orleans.

J. ALAN GREETER formed JAG Communica-
tions, a marketing, public relations and con-
sulting firm in Nashville, Tenn. The company
specializes in newsletter production, special
events coordination, and marketing strategies.

DAVID S. GROVE was promoted to branch
manager and consumer banking officer with
First Union National Bank in Macon, Ga. He
moved to Macon from Columbus, Ga., as a
result of the promotion.

COURTNEY H. HARPOLD co-authored an
article that appeared in the April issue of 7he
West Virginia Medical Journal. She is a student
at the West Virginia University School of
Medicine.

ESTHER M. HUFFMAN is working toward
a doctorate in neuroscience from Vanderbilt
University.

KATHERINE A. KELSO works for Arthur
Anderson & Co. in Washington, D.C. She lives
in Arlington, Va.

FREDERICK W. (FRITZ) LAKE III is a
senior credit analyst at Abu Dhabi International
Bank Inc., in Washington, D.C.

LAUREL V. MATTSON works in the person-
nel recruiting department of Circuit City, Inc.
She lives in Richmond, Va.

HENRY H. MAYER III was promoted to ship
manager for MSO Inc., a ship operating com-
pany in Rockville, Md. The company provides
support for 10 U.S. Navy ships.

CATHERINE A. McCUBBIN is pursuing a
master’s degree in international studies at Old
Dominion University, in Norfolk, Va.

ELIZABETH S. MILES is a graduate student
in the University of Louisville’s physical therapy
school.

ANTHONY J. ONORATO received a master
of clinical immunology and microbiology degree
from Hahnemann University in Philadelphia.

VALERIE A. PIERSON is an associate in cor-
porate finance at J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc.

JASON J. RUSSO was recently promoted to
a public finance officer position with Maryland
National Bank.

L. JOHNSON SARBER III is a second-year
law student at Washington and Lee.

K.M. (BENNY) SAVAGE is pursuing a
master’s degree in counseling psychology at
Columbia University.

CHARLES T. (TOM) SKEEN II is director
of accounting for the WEDCO District Health
Department, in Cynthiana, Ky.

GEORGE G. SPARACIO is working as the
weekend assignments editor and a producer for
WCNC-TV, the NBC affiliate in Charlotte,
N.C.

ROBERT S. THOMPSON is a third-year law
student at the University of Georgia.

W. CHRISTOPHER WOOD is project
manager for J D & W Inc., a family-owned com-
mercial construction company based in Virginia

Beach, Va.
WILLIAM E. (TOBY) ALLEN is

90
enrolled in the graduate chemistry

program at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill.

M. BECKWITH ARCHER is in her second
year of law school at Washington and Lee.

LORANNE E. AUSLEY works as an associate
in the litigation department at Steel, Hector &
Davis in Miami, Fla.

CHRISTOPHER A. CERONE works at the
Soviet desk at the U.S. Department of Com-
merce. He is also pursuing a master’s degree
in international affairs at George Washington
University.

SEAN M. CONNELLY works as a marketing
representative for McGraw-Hill Inc. He lives
in State College, Pa.

JOHN S. FORSYTH is an account executive
and producer with the McDonough Caperton
Insurance Group in Wheeling, W.Va.

KATHRYN T. (KATIE) HARDWICK recent-
ly returned from Europe, where she had been
working and traveling.

D. SCOTT JACKSON is a staff technician in
the consulting group of KPMG Peat Marwick
in Washington, D.C.

KENNETH M. JURISH is an attorney for the
law firm of James T.J. Keating, P.C., in
Chicago. He practices environmental law.

FREDERICK B. KIECKHEFER is a finance
executive for Hecht’s, a division of the May Co.

ROBERT E. MARTIN attends the Medical
College of Virginia, in Richmond.

STACY L. MORRISON is an editorial assis-

tant in the features department at Mirabella

magazine. She lives in New York City.
WEL 49

2ND LT. KEVIN M. NASH is assigned to the
3rd Armored Calvary Regiment at Fort Bliss in
El Paso, Texas.

ELIZABETH M. O’CONNELL works for the
U.S. Department of Commerce, in the office
of the Secretary/White House Liaison.

JAMES STEVEN PATTERSON works for the
Hon. Ellsworth Van Graafeiland of the 2nd Cir-
cuit, U.S. Court of Appeals. He lives in
Rochester, N.Y.

TANYA PERGOLA is pursuing a masters
degree in sociology from the University of
Washington.

CLINTON S. ROBINSON works as a staff
assistant to U.S. Rep. Doug Barnhard of
Georgia.

RICHARD A. SANCES II is a second-year
medical student at the University of Virginia
medical school.

LEA F. SANTAMARIA attends the American
Graduate School of International Management.

PATRICIA A. SCIUTTO is a sales assistant
with the Knoll Group, a furniture and textile
manufacturer in New York City.

REBECCA REYNOLDS SIMULCIK works at
the Naval Surface Warfare Center in Dahlgren,
Va. She lives in Lexington Park, Md., with her
husband, Stephen.

ROGER G. STEPHENS practices tax and
employee benefits law with the San Antonio
firm of Oppenheimer, Rosenberg, Kelleher &
Wheatley.

TINA VANDERSTEEL is an associate at J.P.
Morgan in New York City. She visited
Washington and Lee to lecture in March.

CATHERINE L. WILLIAMS works for Ar-
con Manufacturing, Inc., an international
countertrade company in Charlotte, N.C.

PAUL T. WILLIAMSON is a second-year law

student at the University of Texas.

*g 1 MICHAEL W. DANZANSKY is
in the management trainee program

at Hecht’s. He lives in Washington D.C.

JAMES H. DUNLEVY is taking graduate
courses in the Department of Public Safety at
Duke Univesity.

30. OW&L

   

Marriages

CLARENCE RENSHAW II, 63, and Evelyn
D. Steiner, on April 5, 1991, in Vienna, Va.
The couple lives in Fairfax, Va.

RONALD H. MARKS, ’68L, and Linda A.
Williams, on May 2, 1991. The couple lives in
Virginia Beach, Va.

EDWARD I. HUTCHINS JR., ’68, and Bar-
bara Gleixner on Nov. 24, 1990 in Westport,
Conn.

F. HARRISON EVATT, ’74, and Kathryn
Taylor on May 31, 1991, in Greensboro, N.C.
The couple lives in Greensboro.

WILLIAM H. BIESEL JR.,’75, and Elizabeth
Turnage on Nov. 17, 1990, in Farmville, N.C.
The wedding party included Tom Faulkner,
74; Tav Lupton, ’76; Doug Hunt, ’75; and Billy
Moomaw, ’76. The couple lives in Dallas.

ANDREW H. FARMER, ’75, and Loria Ann
Johnson on Sept. 22, 1990 in Richmond. The
couple lives in Richmond, Va., where Farmer
is a community relations officer for the Virginia
Department of Transportation.

CLIFFORD B. SONDOCK, ’79, and Debra
Jane Parnet on Feb. 9, 1991. Sondock is direc-
tor of leasing for Spiegel Associates, a real estate
development company based in Jericho, N.Y.

STEPHEN H. ABRAHAM, ’80, ’83L, and
Valerie Clark Roden on Dec. 29, 1990. The
wedding party included Don Swagart, ’80, and
Anthony Zaccagnini, 83. Abraham is a civil trial
attorney with Greenstein, DeLorme & Luchs
in Washington, D.C. The couple lives in Chevy
Chase, Md.

LAWRENCE K. GUMPRICH, ’80, and Sherry
Lynn Barefoot on March 2, 1991, in Richmond,
Va. The wedding party included Jim Leisy, ’80.

SAMUEL A. FLAX, ’81L, and Margaret
Jacobs, on March 24, 1990, in Nashville, Tenn.
The wedding party included John Moran, ’81L.

D. BRUCE POOLE, ’81, ’85L, and Kathleen
Graham on July 20, 1991. The couple lives in
Hagerstown, Md.

JAMES R. SMALL, ’81, and Lori Alison Weir
on June 30, 1990. The wedding party included
Ross Newell, 81, ’85L; Richard Keatley, ’81,
John Pritchett, °81; and Ted Kerr, ’81.

JAMES B. HAYNES III, ’82, and Gloria Elaine
Hamilton, on May 19, 1990. The couple lives
in Chapel Hill, N.C.

GEORGE E. (NED) CRADY,’83, and Hilary
Sloane Frame on May 19, 1990. The wedding

party included Lanier Edge, ’83; Joe Seifert, ’83;
and Joel Weston, *83. The couple lives in
Houston, where Crady practices international

law and commercial litigation with the law firm
of Crady, Jewett & McCulley.

E. RANDALL HUDSON III, 83, and Carolyn
Frances Tarride on May 11, 1991, in Fort
Worth, Texas. The couple lives in Fort Worth,
where Hudson works for Hudson Oil Co.

GERALD I. MOYER III, 83, and Nancy E.
Krafft on Sept. 15, 1990, in Alexandria, Va.
The wedding party included classmates Gor-
don Witherspoon, Mark Carduner, Bradley
Poorman, Thomas Elder, and Todd Foster.
The couple lives in Arlington, Va.

THE REV. DENNIS S. ROBERTS, ’83, and
Maria Helene Mann on June 9, 1990. The
couple lives in Lynchburg, Va., where Roberts
is co-pastor of Holy Trinity Lutheran Church.

RAYMOND A. CERESA, ’84, and Michele
May on Dec. 22, 1990, at Mount Vernon, Va.
Ceresa is an attorney with Rees, Broome &

Diaz in Vienna, Va. The couple lives in Great
Falls, Va.

DAVID H. FLETCHER, ’84L, and Paula
Falbo on Sept. 22, 1990, in Alexandria, Va.
Fletcher is an attorney with Gannon, Cottrell
& Ward in Alexandria, where the couple lives.

DR. JOHN P. SUTTON III, ’84, and Kate
Magellin on April 6, 1991. The couple lives in
Mobile, Ala., where Sutton is a third-year
general surgery resident at the University of
South Alabama Medical Center.

CHARLES T. CASSEL III, ’85, and Christine
L. McDannell on Nov. 3, 1990, in Fort Lauder-
dale, Fla. The wedding party included Scott
Schultz, ’85. The couple lives in Fort Lauder-
dale, where Cassel is vice president and port-
folio manager for BankAtlantic.

ANDREW DANIEL FARLEY, ’85, and Jen-
nifer Woodson Dennis on May 25, 1991, in
Houston. The couple lives in Houston, where
Farley is an associate at the law firm of Hut-
cheson & Grundy.

ROBERT D. PHILLIPS, ’85, and Amy L.
Mangum on July 20, 1991. The wedding party
included Roger McDonough, ’84, and Ed But-
tarazzi, 85. The couple lives in Alexandria, Va.

JAMES J. WERNER, JR., ’85, and Susan
Norvell, on June 1, 1991, in St. Louis.
Classmates Bob Tomaso, George (Tad) Ren-
ner, and Bill Decamp were in the wedding par-
ty. The couple lives in Louisville, Ky.

REBECCA LEE MASON, ’86L, and W.
Towne Baker on June 8, 1991, in Powhatan,
Va. The couple lives in Hong Kong, where the
bride is an associate with Fulbright & Jawor-
ski, a Houston-based international law firm.

PETER A. HUNT, ’86, and Meggi L. Relles
on May 18, 1991, in Sacramento, Calif. The
couple lives in New York City, where Hunt is
vice president in the mergers and acquisitions
department of J.P. Morgan & Co.

CAPT. ANTHONY D. JONES, ’86, ’89L, and
Heather L. Ward on June 2, 1990. Jones is sta-
tioned in Bad Krueznach, Germany, where he
is a trial counsel with the 8th Infantry Division.

CARR L. (TREY) KINDER III, ’86, and
Priscilla Lynne Jamison on July 6, 1991. The
wedding party included Robert Gresham, 86.
The couple lives in Richmond, Va., where
Kinder is an associate with Hunton and
Williams.

MATSON L. ROBERTS, 86, and Sally
Meriwether Lee on April 20, 1991, in Farm-
ville, Va. Roberts works for Southern Air Co.
of Lynchburg, Va.

VINCENT S. LaMANNA, ’87, and Angela
Sachs on May 25, 1991. The couple lives in
Brooklyn, N.Y.

KEVIN W. LEDERER, ’87, and Barbara
Gehlert on March 23, 1991. The couple lives
in Alexandria, Va.

JUDITH M. RINGLAND, ’87, and James M.
Outland on June 15, 1991, in Princeton, N.J.
The wedding party included Joseph Ringland,
60; Grover Outland Jr., °52L; Camden W.
Selig, ’83; Valerie Kochey, 87; and Debra
Hurtt, °89. The bride works as manager of
career services for Forward Mobility Inc., in

Bernardsville, N.J.

ROBERT M. DRAKE, ’88, and JULIA J.
SNOWDEN, ’89, on July 20, 1991, in
Wilmington, Del. The wedding party included
John Packett, 88; Jim Rallo, ’88; and Kathy
Kelso, ’89.

MARK G. CHURCHILL, ’88, and SUSAN
SARVER, ’91, on June 8, 1991.

KATHLEEN KEITH, ’88L, and Kevin Oddo,
on Aug. 11, 1990. The bride is working at the
law firm of Krippendorf and Kronau in Roanoke,
Va., where the couple lives.

FRANCIS P. (FRANK) ROONEY, ’88, and
Heather Varney, in July 1990, at Lee Chapel.
The couple lives in Durham, N.C., where
Rooney is pursuing a master’s degree in business
from the Duke University business school.

JOHN H. STARKS, ’88, and Katherine A.
Hall, on July 13, 1991, in Duke University

Chapel, Durham, N.C. Michael G. Herrin, 88,
was the best man. Starks is teaching high school
latin in Durham while pursuing graduate studies
at the University of North Carolina in Chapel
Hill.

LT. JOHN E. VEATCH II, ’88, and LEEANN
M. FLOOD, ’89, on June 8, 1991, in Fort
Worth, Texas. The wedding party included
Danatha Hoffman, Bitsy Hopper, Matt Bevin,
and Elizabeth Miles, all from the class of ’89.
The couple lives in Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio.

JOHN E. ANDERSON, ’89L, and Marsha
Dawn Patterson on May 25, 1991, in
Clarksville, Tenn. The wedding party includ-
ed Vito A. Gagliardi Jr., °89L. The couple lives
in Nashville, Tenn.

DUDLEY W. LEE, ’89, and Louise Sewell on
June 1, 1991, in Decatur, Ala. The couple lives
in Memphis, Tenn.

CHRISTOPHER A. BEELEY, ’90, and Shan-
non Murphy on April 6, 1991. The couple lives
in New Haven, Conn., where Beeley is study-
ing theology at Yale Divinity School.

CHRISTY A. CARTER, ’90, and David D.
Camden Jr. on April 13, 1991, in Buena Vista,
Va. The couple lives in Roanoke, where the
bride is a management associate for Dominion
Bank of Virginia.

BROOKS D. PETTUS, ’90, and Sophia N.
Shaw on June 15, 1991, in Chicago. The wed-
ding party included classmates Lynwood
Mallard and Chris Weed. The couple lives in
Charlotte, N.C..

MARK A. ROBERTSON, ’89, and Nancy
Debbink on June 23, 1991. The couple lives
in Madison, Wis.

MATTHEW J. WISE, 91, and Stepanie Anne
Campbell on July 6, 1991, in Lee Chapel. The

couple lives in Roanoke, Va., where Wise works
for KPMG Peat Marwick.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT A. READING II,
67, a daughter, Ann Montgomery, on Jan. 5,
1991. The family lives in Salisbury, Md., where
Reading is vice president of E.S. Adkins & Co.,
a building supplies and development business.

 

MR. AND MRS. ARON L. SUNA, ’67,’70L,
a daughter, Natalie Ruth, on Oct. 10, 1990. She
joins a sister, Claire. The family lives in New
York City.

DR. AND MRS. WILLIAM M.
RASMUSSEN, ’68, a son, Marc Emerson

Townes, on March 25, 1991. The family lives
in Richmond, Va.

MR. AND MRS. JOSEPH BERNSTEIN, ’71,
a son, Joseph Bernard, on Feb. 21, 1991. The
family lives in West River, Md.

DR. AND MRS. LAWRENCE G. MILLER
III, 71, a son, William Dawson, on Nov. 19,
1990. The family lives in Richmond, Va.

DR. AND MRS. BARRY W. MITCHELL,
71, a son, Evan Max, on Feb. 13, 1991. The
family lives in Albany, N.Y., where Mitchell is
a plastic surgeon.

MR. AND MRS. PETER F. SAN MIGUEL,
’71, a daughter, Kristen Blair, on Nov. 1, 1990.
She joins a sister, Kelly Brier, 5. The family lives
in Greenville, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES C. HAYDON, ’72,
a daughter, Kathyrn Martha, on March 23,
1991. She joins a sister, Elizabeth, 3. Haydon,
an installment accounts technician with the

National Automobile Dealers Association, and
family live in Oxon Hill, Md.

MR. AND MRS. MERYL D. MOORE, ’72,
their third daughter, Alyssa Grace, on Jan. 18,
1991. The family lives in Poquoson, Va.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN F. WATLINGTON
III, °72, a daughter, Anne Chandler, on Dec.
19, 1990. The family lives in Richmond, Va.

MR. AND MRS. JOEL L. LEGIN, °74, a
daughter, Caroline Carson, on Jan. 3, 1991. She
joins a sister, Meredith, 4. The family lives in
Lutherville, Md.

DR. AND MRS. RICHARD S. McCAIN, ’74,
a daughter, Sara Ann Elizabeth, on Sept. 21,
1990. The family lives in Columbia, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. ALLEN S. C. WILLING-
HAM, ’74, a son, J. Harrison, on April 11,
1991. He joins a sister, Kathryn. The family
lives in Atlanta.

DR. AND MRS. THOMAS D. LAN-
CASTER, ’75, a daughter, Tanya Carolyn, on
March 13, 1991, in Kitzingen, Germany. The
family lives in Atlanta, where Lancaster is an
associate professor of political science at Emory
University.

MR. AND MRS. W. KENNEDY SIMPSON,
75, ason, Palmer Kennedy, on Feb. 11, 1991.
The family lives in Louisville, Ky.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID R. BRAUN, ’76,
their third daughter, Sarah Thorn, on Dec. 12,
1990. She joins sisters Katherine and Megan.
Braun, who is regional vice president of finan-

cial services for The Travelers, and family live
in Edina, Minn.

W&L 51

MR. AND MRS. LAWRENCE R. (LAWRY)
DANIEL, ’76, a son, Lawrence Reed Jr., on
March 21, 1991. He joins a sister, Sarah, 2. The
family lives in Houston, where Daniel is a land-
man with Mosbacher Energy Co.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM T. DRISCOLL
III, 76, their third son, Timothy Cashman, on
Sept. 19, 1990. He joins two brothers, Will,
8, and Richard, 3. The family lives in Norfolk,
Va.

MR. AND MRS. LUTHER H. DUDLEY II,
76, a son, Luther Harris III, on April 12, 1991.
The family lives in Charlotte, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. ALBERT A. RADCLIFFE
III, °76, a daughter, Caroline Anne, on Aug. 24,
1990. The family lives in Frederick, Md.

MAJ. AND MRS. ANTHONY G. PERRY,
77, a son, Daniel Blair, on July 6, 1990. He
joins sisters Alana, 10, and Kelly 8, and brother
David, 5. The family lives at Fort Benjamin
Harrison in Indianapolis.

MR. AND MRS. STUART W.
SERENBETZ, ’77, a daughter, Margaret
Skyler, on April 9, 1991. She joins brothers
Tucker, 6, and Hunter, 3. The family lives in
Stamford, Conn.

MR. AND MRS. ARTHUR CARMODY III,
’°78, ason, Drake McDonald, on July 7, 1991.
He joins four brothers, Arthur, Harrison, Ken-
ner, and Aubry. The family lives in Shreveport,
La.

MR. AND MRS. J. CLAYTON CROUCH
JR., °78, a son, John Clayton Jr., on Dec. 1,
1990. The family lives in Lookout Mountain,
Tenn.

MR. AND MRS. R. BOICE McGREW, ’78,
a son, R. Boice Jr., on March 6, 1991. He joins
sister Taylor, 4. The family lives in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT C. PEERY JR.,
’78, a daughter, Janet Madelyn, on March 7,
1991. She joins a brother, Campbell, 2. The
family lives in Richmond, Va., where Peery is
manager of planning at Pinkerton Tobacco.

MR. AND MRS. MARCUS M. PENNELL
III, 78, a daughter, Anne Warner, on Oct. 18,
1990. The family lives in Cincinnati, where
Pennell works with Chubb & Son Inc.

MR. AND MRS. J. ANDREW FITZ-
GERALD, ’79, a daughter, Patricia Campbell,
on May 17, 1991. She joins a sister, Cece. The
family lives in Kensington, Md.

MR. AND MRS. CHARLES C.
HABLISTON IV, ’79, a son, Charles Carroll
V, on Sept. 3, 1990. He joins a sister, Caroline,
3. The family lives in Alexandria, Va.

52. WEL

MR. AND MRS. GERALD M. MALMO III,
°79, a son, Carter Madison, on Nov. 2, 1990.
The family lives in Winston-Salem, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. STEPHEN L. MANGAN,
79, twins, Michael Connor and Stephanie Ann,
on April 24, 1991. The family lives in New Bri-
tain, Conn.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID C. PACE, ’79, ’84L,
a son, Austin Baker, on March 5, 1991. The
family lives in Richmond, Va.

DR. AND MRS. STEPHEN D. STAHL, ’79,
a son, Christopher Spencer, on March 5, 1991.
He joins a brother, William Samuel, 4. The
family lives in Mount Pleasant, Mich., where
Stahl is an associate professor and chairman of
the geology department at Central Michigan
University.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT P. WISE, ’79L,
a son, Andrew Sherwood, on Dec. 5, 1990.
The family lives in Jackson, Miss.

MR. AND MRS. CARY G. BOOTH, ’80, a
son, Alexander Tyler, on June 5, 1991. He joins
a brother, Whitaker, 3. The family lives in Nor-
folk, Va., where Booth works for Norfolk
Southern Corp.

MR. AND MRS. LESLIE A. COTTER JR..,
’80, a daughter, Beth, on Oct. 21, 1990. She
joins a sister, Caroline, 3. The family lives in
Columbia, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. GUY T. STEUART III, ’80,
their first child, Anna Caroline, on Feb. 11,
1991. The family lives in Bethesda, Md.

MR. AND MRS. CARTER H. TUCKER, ’80,
a son, Carter Harrison Jr., on April 28, 1991.
The family lives in Richmond, Va.

MR. AND MRS. NATE L. ADAMS III, ’81L,
their second son, John Coleman, on Jan. 30,
1991. The family lives in Winchester, Va.

MR. AND MRS. WINSTON W. BURKS III,
°81, a son, Winston Watts IV, on Jan. 25, 1991.
He joins sisters Anna Elizabeth, 4, and
Katherine Cook, 2. The family lives in Bedford,
Va.

MR. AND MRS. ALFRED R. HINTZ, ’81,
their third child, Shelby Elizabeth, on March
29, 1991. The family lives in Sayville, N.Y.
Hintz is a partner in the law firm of O'Connor,
O’Connor, Hintz & Deveney in East
Rockaway, N.Y. He specializes in the defense
of complex product liability and medical
malpractice cases.

MR. AND MRS. W. POWELL JONES, ’81,
a daughter, Mallory McKenzie, on Feb. 20,
1991. She joins a brother, Christopher, 3. The
family lives in Thomasville, Ga.

KATHLEEN FENTON KRONAU, ’81L, her
first child, Kathyrn Michelle, on May 22, 1991.
She is a Roanoke Assistant City Attorney.
Kronau and her husband, Roger, live in
Roanoke, Va.

MR. AND MRS. SAMUEL P. PRICE JR.,
’°81L, a daughter, Molly Murdock, on April 9,
1991. The family lives in Jamestown, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. ALAN P. PRYOR, ’81, a
son, Alan Persons Jr., on April 16, 1991. The
family lives in Chatham, N.J.

MR. AND MRS. T. STANLEY BARNES JR.,
’82, a daughter, Colson Dodd, on Feb. 1, 1991.

‘The family lives in Tallahassee, Fla., where

Barnes is a life underwriter, specializing in estate
planning and business life insurance for Toole-
Barnes & Assoc., a firm he helped found.

JULIA THIGPEN CRENSHAW, ’82L, and
John Crenshaw, a daughter, Helen Grace, on
Feb. 19, 1991. She joins a brother, William,
2. The family lives in Hopkinsville, Ky.

MARY DUDLEY ALLEN EGGLESTON,
*82L, and Sam Eggleston III, a son, Daniel
Mercer, on Feb. 2, 1991. He joins a brother,
Carter. The family lives in Afton, Va.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT W. HAYNES, ’82,
a daughter, Meredith Jill, on Jan. 12, 1991. She
joins a brother, Wesley, 3. The family lives in
Charleston, W.Va., where Haynes is an ad-
vanced analytical chemist with Union Carbide.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN MONROE, ’82, a
daughter, Megan, on April 30, 1991. The family
lives in Atlanta, where Monroe is director of
financial analysis with First Financial Manage-
ment Corp.

MR. AND MRS. TIMOTHY C. TAYLOR,
’82, a daughter, Kathyrn Rebecca, on May 12,
1991. She joins a brother, Timothy Jr. The
family lives in Austin, Texas.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT S. CARPENTER,
’83, a daughter, Alexandria Rae, on April 21,
1991. The family lives in Ruxton, Md.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES E. LIPSCOMB IV,
’83, a son, James Wilkins, on Aug. 16, 1990.
The family lives in Greenville, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. W. PRICE MORRISON
JR., ’83L, a daughter, Lyllian Gray, on March
5, 1991. She joins sisters McCaughan, 5, and
Dial, 3. The family lives in Memphis, Tenn.

KEVIN A. NELSON, ’83L, and CYNTHIA
ENGELS NELSON, ’84L, a son, Ethan
Walker, on June 26, 1991. He joins a sister,
Kelsey Elizabeth, 3. Kevin is a partner in the
Charleston, W.Va., law firm of Kay, Casto,
Chaney, Love & Wise. Cynthia is the senior

law clerk for West Virginia Supreme Court
Justice Margaret L. Workman. The family lives
in Charleston.

MR. AND MRS. WARREN B. RHETT, ’83,
a daughter, Alexandra Moore, on May 16,
1991. The family lives in Birmingham, Ala.

MR. AND MRS. HAL C. RICH III, ’83, a son,
Charles Campion, on April 22, 1991. He joins
a brother, Hal IV. The family lives in Upper
Marlboro, Md.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN L. CARPENTER,
’84L, a daughter, Alison Ann, on May 15, 1991.
She joins two brothers, Scott and Robert. ‘The
family lives in Yarmouth, Maine. Carpenter is
a partner in the law firm of Bernstein, Shur,
Sawyer & Nelson in Portland, Maine.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN P. GALLAGHER,
’84L, a son, John Patrick Jr., on March 14,
1991. The family lives in Marietta, Ga.
Gallagher is a partner with the Atlanta law firm
of Varner, Stephens, Wingfield & Humphries.

DR. AND MRS. KEVIN M. KADESKY, ’84,
a son, Stephen Charles, on March 10, 1991.
He joins a sister, Elizabeth. The family lives
in Dallas.

CAPT. AND MRS. EDWARD J. O'BRIEN,
84 a son, Brendan Matthew, on Feb. 25, 1991.
The family lives in South Bend, Ind.

MR. AND MRS. MICHAEL H. HUTCHER-
SON, ’85, a daughter, Sarah Jaeger, on April
11, 1991. The family lives in Cooperstown,
N.Y.

CAPT. AND MRS. W. ROBERT PAYNE IV,
85, a daughter, Pali Blair, on Dec. 30, 1990.
The family lives in Mount Laurel, N.J. Payne
works as the special assistant United States at-
torney at Fort Dix, N.J.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES L. WOOD, ’85, a
daughter, Meredith Stuart, on March 15, 1991.
She joins a brother, James, 3. The family lives
in Virginia Beach, Va., where Wood is vice
president of JD & W Inc., a family-owned com-
mercial construction company.

SARAH Y. MONCURE KIRBY, ’87L, and
Kenneth Kirby, a daughter, Emma Virginia, on
June 10, 1991. She joins a brother, Henry, 1.
‘The family lives in Farmville, Va.

VIRGINIA CARRUTHERS SMITH, ’87, and
David M. Smith, a son, David Auston, on Sept.
16, 1990. The family lives in Birmingham, Ala.

MR. AND MRS. PAUL E. (ED) HENSON
III, 88, a daughter, Lucy Sheffield, on April 7,
1991. The family lives in Augusta, Ga.

MR. AND MRS. DANIEL JORDAN E.
JOSEY, ’88, a son, Daniel Jordan Ellis Jr., on

May 1, 1991. The family lives in Spartanburg,
S.C., where Josey is an assistant financial analyst
with National Linen Service.

ALAN J. HEINRICH, ’90, and EILEEN
LABASHINSKY HEINRICH, ’90, a daughter,
Kelli Loria. The family makes its home in Buf-
falo, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. BRADFORD M. YOUNG,
’90L, a son, Kyle Allen, on April 3, 1991. The
family lives in Norton, Va.

In Memoriam

ALLEIN BEALL, ’18, retired food and seed
broker with the Beall Co. Inc., died July 21,
1991, in Helena, Ark., his home of 73 years.
He served with the 335th Field Artillery during
World War I. He was a member of the Southern
Seedmen’s Association, a charter member of the
Arkansas and Mississippi Seedmen’s Associa-
tion, chairman of the board of Helena Federal
Savings and Loan, former president of the
Kiwanis Club, member of the American Legion
and Last Man’s Club. Beall was also a member
and vestryman of St. John’s Episcopal Church.

 

JENNINGS RICE, ’22, renowned author, died
Dec. 4, 1990. After three years of work in a
West Virginia law office, Rice moved to New
York City and studied journalism at Columbia
University. He began writing articles for several
magazines and New York newspapers, including
The New Republic. Rice taught short story writing
at Columbia from 1929 to 1933 and taught
writing and journalism at St. Joseph’s College
in Brooklyn before traveling to Europe. In 1938,
his first novel, The Man Who Insulted Somerville,
was published. It detailed the hypocrisy and
gossip of a small West Virginia town. The book
was well received, and the New York Sun called
the book “three hundred and fifty-seven pages
of chuckles and absorption.” Five years later,
Rice wrote The Windmill Circle, which studied
the minor feuds of another small town. The New
York Herald-Tribune called it a “gentle, ironic,
humorously tinged novel.” During World War
II, Rice assisted the war effort by writing
messages in his book jackets exhorting people
to buy government war bonds and stamps. After
the war, he traveled to Europe again, living in
Italy from 1963 to 1971. He moved to
Lighthouse Point, Fla., in 1980.

RICHARD HENRY ABBOTT, °26, retired
senior accountant for Caterpillar Tractor Co.,
died June 14, 1991, in Sarasota, Fla. He moved
to Sarasota in 1986, from Phoenix, Ariz.
Abbott, who also had been a credit manager
with the West Texas Office Supply Co., had
been with Caterpillar Tractor in Peoria, Ill.,
prior to moving to Arizona.

WILTON W. CONNER, ’26, a retired in-
spector with the U.S. Public Health Service,
died Dec. 3, 1990. He was a salesman for Art
Metal Construction Corp. and Milton Bradley
Co. for several years before joining the zoology
division of the National Institutes of Health. He
served in the U.S. Navy during World War II
before becoming a sanitary inspector and then
a quarantine officer for the Public Health Ser-
vice. He was also a charter member and deacon
of the First Presbyterian Church of Hialeah, a
member of the Oleta Masonic Lodge, and a
member of the American Legion.

WALTER DEBELE (PINKY) BACH, ’28,
former secretary and treasurer of Sherrill Oil
Co., died on Jan. 16, 1991, at his home in Pen-
sacola, Fla. He moved to Pensacola after
graduating from W&L, and worked there for
Sherrill Oil Co. until his retirement in 1965. He
was on the board and committees of the Pen-
sacola YMCA, the Boy Scouts, and the United
Way. He was a charter member and the first
president of the Pensacola Exchange Club, first
president of Law Enforcement Ministries, chair-
man of the Pensacola Port Authority, and chair-
man of the Pensacola Historical Society Endow-
ment Trust Fund Campaign. Bach was a
founding trustee of Florida Presbyterian College
(now Eckerd College) in St. Petersburg, Fla.
He also served his church as a deacon, Sunday
school teacher, elder, and elder emeritus.

VIRGIL L. FRANTZ, ’28, former chairman of
the board of Graham-White Manufacturing Co.,
died May 4, 1991, at his home in Salem, Va.
He was a founding member of the Salem Rotary
Club, and served as its first president. He was
also a member of Grace Church.

VIRGINIUS V. (VAN) HOLLOMON, ’28, a
retired lawyer, died Feb. 19, 1991, at his home
in Dallas. He graduated magna cum laude from
W&L, and second in his law class at Columbia
Law School in 1931. He moved to Dallas in
1940, where he was general counsel and
treasurer for Interstate Circuit Inc. and ‘Texas
Consolidated Theaters Inc. for 30 years. He
was a member of the New York Bar, ‘Texas Bar,
and American Bar Associations. Hollomon was
a director of the Hoblitzelle Foundation, a
charitable organization, for 38 years, and was
a trustee of the Southwestern Medical Foun-
dation from 1961 to 1989. He was on the
foundation’s executive committee for nine years.
He was secretary and general counsel of the
Texas State Research Foundation for its 26-year
history. Hollomon was also a founding member
of the Greenhill School and a trustee and board
chairman of The Hockaday School.

HARRY REED JOHNSTON, ’28, founding
partner of Johnston & Lunger stock brokerage,
died July 8, 1991, at his home in Sarasota, Fla.
He began his career as a stock broker with

W&L 53

Fenner & Beane in 1928. In 1933, he worked
as an office manager for F.I. DuPont & Co. in
Wilmington, Del., and six years later he pur-
chased a seat on the New York Stock Exchange.
He established Johnston & Lunger in 1944. He
was a director of 1st Federal Savings and Loan
in New Castle County, Del.; a director of
Klicklok Corp.; and a chairman of the board of
1st National Bank in Sparkill, N.Y. Johnston
was a Robert E. Lee Associate.

STUARD A. WURZBURGER, ’28, retired
labor relations consultant and a former Alumni
Board member, died July 12, 1991, at his home
in Lexington, Va. He was a labor relations con-
sultant from 1945 until 1971, when he retired
and moved to Lexington to become a labor rela-
tions lecturer at the W&L law school. After
graduating from W&L in 1928, he held posi-
tions with the Paul Block Newspapers in New
York, the Hercules Construction Co., and the
Southern Construction Co. During World War
II, he was a labor relations officer with the New
York Ordnance District. He moved to Glen
Ridge, N.J., after the war and started his con-
sultant business. He was co-founder and presi-
dent of the Glen Ridge Athletic Association,
chairman of the Glen Ridge Recreation Com-
mittee, director of the Glen Ridge Taxpayers
Association, and a member of the Civic Con-
ference Committee. In addition to his work on
the W&L Alumni Board, Wurzburger was an
officer and director of the New York Alumni
Chapter for over 30 years, class agent for the
class of 1928, honorary ODK member, a former
chairman of the New Jersey and associate chair-
man of the New York capital fund drives, and
a Robert E. Lee Associate. He represented
Washington and Lee at the inauguration of
Dwight Eisenhower as president of Columbia
University, at the funeral of John W. Davis, and
at the induction of H.K. (Cy) Young into the
National Football Foundation Hall of Fame. He
was a professor in the law school from 1972 un-
til 1977. Wurzburger was also a director of the
Lexington Golf and Country Club. In 1977, he
won the senior division of the club’s annual golf
tournament.

JOHN BELL TOWILL, ’29L, a retired at-
torney died July 3, 1991. Elected to Omicron
Delta Kappa at W&L, Towill began his career
in 1929 as a partner with the Augusta, Ga., law
firm of Hull, Towill, Norman and Barrett. He
served in the U.S. Navy during World War II.
He was a class agent for W&L, and he was
awarded an honorary doctorate of law degree
from the University in 1972. He served as presi-
dent of the Augusta Bar Association, was a
fellow of the American Bar Association, a
member of the board of governors for the
Georgia Bar Association, and a member of the
International Bar Association. He was past presi-
dent of the American College of Probate Coun-
cil, a member of the American Judicative Socie-

54 W&L

ty and the State Board of Bar Examiners, and
a Richmond County General Assemblyman. He
was president and chairman of the board of
Home Federal Savings and Loan Association,
which he founded in 1955. He also was presi-
dent of the Georgia Savings and Loan League,
and a director of the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board of Greensboro, N.C. He served on the
legislative committee of the U.S. Savings and
Loan League and was a consultant to the U.S.
Atomic Energy Commission. He was past presi-
dent and district governor of Rotary Interna-
tional, helped organize the Boys Club of
Augusta, and served as a warden of St. Paul’s
Episcopal Church.

JAMES RAGAN ROBERTS, ’30, retired at-
torney, died April 10, 1991, in Charlotte, N.C.
He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from W&L
before enrolling in Harvard Law School, from
which he graduated in 1933. Following a year
in London, he moved to Scarsdale, N.Y. to
practice admiralty and tax law in New York City
with the firm of Kerlin, Campbell, Hickcock,
Keating and McGrath. He served in the U.S.
Navy from 1941 to 1945, and received special
recognition for bravery under fire from the
Secretary of the Navy in 1944. After World War
II, he became a senior account executive for
several advertising firms in New York City. In
1947, he and his brother managed the family
pharmaceutical business, Monticello Drug Co.
Also, he was legal consultant to the Proprietary
Drug Association in its work with the Food and
Drug Administration. Roberts was on the
Scarsdale Board of Education District 2, the
Westchester County Chapter of the American
Red Cross, the Westchester County Sym-
phony, the Scarsdale Audubon Society, and was
active in several churches. He moved to Te-
questa, Fla., in 1978.

NEWTON BAUMANN (BIM) STULTS, ’30,
former Florida State University swimming coach
and a member of that school’s Athletic Hall of
Fame, died April 7, 1991. He began his
teaching and coaching career in his native Ohio
right after graduating from W&L, producing five
state championship swim teams for Ross High
School in Fremont, Ohio. He then became an
assistant coach at Ohio State University. Stults
served as a U.S. Navy officer during World War
II, then resumed coaching at Ohio State for two
years. In 1948, he joined the Florida State
University staff, beginning a career that saw him
produce many outstanding teams and several
All-American swimmers. In 1980, he was
elected to the Florida State Athletic Hall of
Fame, and in 1984 saw the dedication of the
Bim Stults Aquatic Center at Florida State.

WALLACE NEWTON TIFFANY, ’31, ’33L,
attorney and former mayor of Warrenton, Va.,
died April 17, 1991, at his home in Warrenton.
He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from W&L, and

he passed the bar in 1932, one year before
receiving his law degree. Following a short stint
in New York City, he returned to Virginia in
1933 and began his law practice, which became
Tiffany and Tiffany when his son WALLACE
TIFFANY, °61, joined him in 1967. He was
also a director of the Fauquier National Bank.
He served as mayor of Warrenton from 1938
to 1943, when he entered the U.S. Army. He
was a captain in the Judge Advocate General’s
Corps during World War II. He was a member
of the Warrenton town council from 1949 to
1953. Tiffany performed legal work in
establishing the Fauquier Hospital, and he
served on the hospital’s Board of Trustees from
1959 to 1973. He was past president of both
the Fauquier County Bar Association and the
Warrenton Rotary Club. He was secretary-
treasurer of the Warrenton Chamber of Com-
merce and served as commissioner of accounts
for the court system. He also was a member
of the Sons of the American Revolution and the
Jamestown Society.

THE HON. K. THOMAS EVERNGAM, ’33,
retired Caroline County, Md., circuit court
judge, died June 12, 1991, at his home in Den-
ton, Md. He went on to get a law degree from
the Washington College of Law (now part of
American University) in 1938. He worked as
a lawyer from 1938 to 1941 for the Reconstruc-
tion Finance Corp. in Washington, D.C. He
was an assistant U.S. district attorney in
Maryland from 1941 to 1943, and he worked
as a special assistant to the Maryland attorney
general until 1946. He also began a career in
private law practice in Denton at that time.
Everngam represented the Caroline County
commissioners, and the Maryland towns of
Ridgely and Greensboro. He was the legal
representative and a member of the board of
the Caroline County Bank, was legal officer for
the Potomac River Fisheries Commission, and
was president of the Chesapeake Bay Seafood
Industries Association. He then became a judge,
and was on the 2nd Judicial Circuit in Denton
from 1976 to 1982. Everngam was a member
of the Maryland and American Bar Associations,
and the American Judicature Association. He
also was a former president of the Caroline
County and 2nd Judicial Circuit Bar Associa-
tions. Everngam was a former president of the
Denton Rotary Club and the Caroline Coun-
try Club. He was a member of St. Luke’s
United Methodist Church.

CLAUDE HAMILTON BARRICK JR., ’35,
retired general manager of S.W. Barrick & Sons
Lime Manufacturing Co., died April 12, 1991,
at his home in Woodsboro, Md. He served as
general manager and treasurer of his family’s
lime manufacturing business for 56 years before
his retirement. Well-known for his varied civic
and social activities, he played a prominent role
in the planning and establishment of the

 

 

 

 

Woodsboro Medical Center. Barrick was active
in Democratic Party affairs and frequently was
recruited to serve on county and state commis-
sions. He was appointed by Gov. J. Millard
Tawes as a member of the Maryland Natural
Resources Board in 1964. He was a member
of the Woodsboro Evangelical Lutheran
Church, serving in many volunteer capacities,
and was on the executive board of the Maryland
Synod of Lutheran Churches. He served leader-
ship roles in the PTA, Boy Scouts, and many
booster clubs. He was also a charter member
of the Glade Valley Lions Club, a former direc-
cor of the National Lime Association, and a past
president of the Frederick Cotillion Club.

EDWIN MEYER MARKS, ’35, ’37L, retired
chairman of the board of Goldsmith’s Depart-
ment Store, died July 22, 1991, at his home
in Memphis, Tenn. President of his senior law
class and a member of ODK at W&L, Marks
practiced law in Brownsville, Tenn., before join-
ing Goldsmith’s in 1940. He held several
positions with the department store, including
comptroller, general merchandise manager, and
branch manager. He was chairman of the com-
pany’s board of directors from 1966 to 1970,
and he served as chairman of the store’s
executive committee until he retired in 1972.
He was president of the Memphis chapter of
the American Cancer Society, president of the
Kiwanis Club, and 1982-83 Kiwanian of the
Year. He was president of the Kiwanis Jewish
Federation and director of Temple Israel. He
was also a director of the Goldsmith Founda-

tion, the Jewish Service Agency, Goodwill In-
dustries, and the American Red Cross. He
served in the U.S. Army during World War II.

THOMAS A RAMMER, °42, a retired
copyeditor for the Milwaukee Journal, died Feb.
4, 1991, in his home in Milwaukee. He served
as a printer in the U.S. Navy for four years dur-
ing World War II. He then worked in the
typesetting department at the Joumna/ until his
retirement. He was an active member of the
United Methodist Church and the Boy Scouts
of America.

BEN WEILLE DITTO, ’43, co-owner of Nor-
ton Ditto Co. men’s clothing stores and former
W&L Alumni Board member, died May 5,
1991. After graduating from W&L, he served
in the U.S. Marine Corps during World War II.
He was a member of the Houston Club, the
Downtown Rotary Club, the Wednesday Mor-
ning Breakfast Club, the River Oaks Country
Club and was a director of The Shoulder. Dit-
to was a deacon and an elder of the First
Presbyterian Church in Houston.

WALTER LAWRENCE KUNAU,’S51, ’54L,
died Sept. 12, 1990, in Lexington, Ky. He
served in the U.S. Army during the Korean
War. After the war, he returned to his home
in Owensboro, Ky., where he went into
business. He was a Rotarian and a past state
president of the Boy Scouts of America. Kunau
also was a member of Zion United Church of
Christ.

DR. NATHAN K. SALKY, ’53, cardiologist,
died June 13, 1990. He had a private practice
in internal medicine and cardiology in Memphis,
Tenn., since 1961. He earned his bachelor’s
degree from Southwestern University at Mem-
phis in 1952 and graduated from the Univer-
sity of Tennessee medical school in 1955. In
1957, he became a captain in the U.S. Army
Medical Corps in Korea, where he stayed for
two years. He began a 30-year private practice
in 1961, with an emphasis on cardiology. He
was an instructor at the University of Tennessee
medical school from 1969 to 1974, before
becoming a clinical professor in 1975. Salky was
diplomate of the American Board of Internal
Medicine since 1963. He was involved with the
Baptist Memorial Hospital in various capacities
since 1973, including associate director, chief
of staff, and president. He was also secretary
of the Memphis and Shelby County Medical
Society in 1980. He was a member of several
medical organizations, including the American
College of Cardiology, the Memphis and Ten-
nessee Heart Associations, and the American
Medical Association.

SAM BENDHEIM Ill, °57, president of
Neighborhood Entertainment Inc., a theater
group in Virginia, died July 6, 1991, in Rich-
mond. He joined his father as an executive with
Neighborhood Theatre Inc., beginning as adver-
tising director. Under his leadership as a vice
president and board member, Neighborhood
had theaters in 57 locations statewide. In 1963,

 

-

cancer.

to his death.

 

of his later professional work.

 

Rogers died of complications from
metastatic cancer diagnosed six weeks prior

Born in London, Rogers left England in
1948 to enter Virginia Military Institute. After
earning his bachelor’s degree in physics, he
was stationed in Hokkaido, Japan, with the
U.S. Army during the Korean War, encounter-
ing for the first time the country whose religion
and culture were to provide the focus for much

From 1955 to 1958, Rogers attended the
Virginia Theological Seminary, and he was or-
dained to the Episcopal priesthood in 1958.

Minor Lee Rogers, 1930-199]

Minor Lee Rogers, Jessie Ball duPont pro-
fessor of religion at Washington and Lee and

noted teacher and scholar of Japanese Bud-
dhism and culture, died Aug. 25, 1991, of

He served as a missionary
in Japan for four years
before enrolling at Har-
vard University’s Center
for the Study of World
Religions in 1966, earning
his Ph.D. in 1972.

That year, Rogers joined the W&L faculty as
an assistant professor. Rogers was named to the
duPont professorship in 1984 and served as head
of the religion department from 1984 to 1989. He
is a past recipient of both a Mellon Foundation Grant
and a Fulbright Scholar Grant.

Rogers’ most lasting contribution to the Univer-
sity lay in his instrumental role in the development
of W&L’s interdisciplinary program in East Asian
Studies. The program includes exchange programs
with Rikkyo University in Tokyo and Kansai Univer-
sity of Foreign Studies in Hirakata, Japan.

 

 

 

WEL. 55

Bendheim and 30 other Southern theater
owners met with Attorney General Robert F.
Kennedy, who ordered them to integrate their
theaters, a move Bendheim later called “the
right thing to do.” He left the Neighborhood
chain in 1988, two years after it was sold to
Cineplex Odeon and devoted his attention to
SKS Inc., a discount theater chain he named
for his three sons. In 1989, he bought the
Neighborhood theaters back from Cineplex and
merged them with SKS to form Neighborhood
Entertainment. Bendheim was a board member
of the Motion Picture Pioneers and the National
Association of Theatre Owners, and was presi-
dent and chairman of the National Association
of Theatre Owners of Virginia. He was also a
past president of Temple Beth Ahabah, a board-
member of Beth Shalom Home of Central
Virginia, and local affiliates of the American
Cancer Society and the Jewish Family Services.

GEORGE WILKINS HARVEY JR., ’63,
broadcasting executive and co-owner of WOBN
radio, died June 10, 1991, at his home in Tam-
pa, Fla. He graduated from W&L with degrees
in journalism and psychology. He began his
business career in television sales at WFGA-TV
in Jacksonville, Fla. He then went to New York
and San Francisco as a media buyer for Young
& Rubicam Advertising Co. He returned to his
home in Tampa in 1969, and joined the sales
staff of WFLA-TV. In 1982, he became local
sales manager for WFTS-TV. He was
appointed regional sales manager and later vice
president of radio operations in 1986 for the
Family Group. In 1988, Harvey formed a part-
nership that bought WOBN radio. He was
active in numerous civic organizations, including
the Salvation Army Advisory Board, the Easter
Seal Society, the United Way, the Humane
Society, and the University of Tampa Board of
Counselors. He was also a member of the
Rotary Club of Key West and the Tampa Ex-
change Club. Harvey also served in the U.S.
Army Reserves.

EDWARD NIVEN BEACHUM, ’67, owner of
Commercial Printing Co., died April 4, 1991,
in Rome, Ga. He earned a master’s of arts
degree from Stetson University in 1970. He
worked at the Darlington School in Rome, Ga.,
from 1972 to 1989, where he taught English,
was head of the English Department, and was
Director of Publicity and Publications. He was
a member of the National Council of Teachers
of English, the American Cancer Society, the
Cherokee Presbytery Peacemaking Taskforce,
and was an elder in the Westminster
Presbyterian Church. In 1984, Beachum was
awarded Darlington’s prestigious J. Douglas
Brown Memorial Award for his exceptional
devotion as an English instructor.

GEOFFREY KARR FAUTH,’82, died May
20, 1991, in Washington, D.C.

56 W&L

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS

 

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer
and dark pine stain. The five color crest of the University is painted on the
back of each chair or rocker. They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture
and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas, birthdays, graduation,
anni-versaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair goes to the
scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, '14.

ARM CHAIR BosTON ROCKER
© Black lacquer with cherry arms © Black lacquer

© Dark pine © Dark pine

$235.00 $220.00

 

THE BOSTON ROCKER REQUIRES SOME ASSEMBLY.

Prices include freight charges.

 

 

 

To order: Include your name, address, your telephone number, and a telephone
number, if known, for the delivery location. Indicate chair or rocker and color.

Make check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Please allow 6-8 weeks delivery.

Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

i ara
be el Oe Ma ia

3
s
a
‘
é
4
+f
tq
3

 

+ “on » > ee
ee ee ee ee ee

a
5. te ee ee en ora

emptied SE. ol Mal i ee

| cau) tie en ig

[eo ae ee eee. ee ee

DO YOU KNOW ANYONE

CLASS OF 1972

Ronald W. Abrams
Thomas W. Altizer Jr.
Jimmy N. Angwenyl
Drew C. Apgar
Patrick D. Bednarczyk
Victor A. Benavente
Charles P. Berry
Jackson K. Cheatham
Michael G. Daniel
Mark R. Donald
James A. Drakos
John S. Dugan
Thomas G. Dunbar
Robert K. Faust
John S. Furlong
Edward A. Gaspar
William R. Gibson
David W. Giese Jr.
Bradford C. Gray
William |. Greener Ill
Lee S. Guertler

John W. Harpole
David G. Huffman Jr.
David E. Jackson
Walter A. Jackson III
Peter N. Junggren
Michael L. Kessler
John H. King

Barry F. Margolius
Jay R. Marks

Donald K. Marshall
Henry L. Mears Jr.
Randall J. Newsome
David L. Reinke
Richard C. Samelson
Jeffrey A. Schwartz
Marcus C. Scott

Dan E. Silberberg
David R. Smith
Michael N. Ward
Paul E. Weeks
William E. White Jr.
Victor C. Wood Jr.

CLASS OF 1972L
Dennis Angel

William K. Becker

Paul J. Ritchie

LISTED HERE?

The individuals whose names appear on this page are
listed as “unlocated” in WerL's alumni records. If you
have a current address for any of these alumni, please do
us—and them—a favor and send word to the Alumni

Office, Washington and Lee University, Lexington,

Jose E. Umila
Jeffery M. Walter
Daniel L. Weiss

VA 24450.

 

Thank You!

CLASS OF 1977

James R. Ballou
Larry V. Banks
Jeffrey H. Barr
Blair N. Belton
Donald R. Berlin
Lance C. Brambeck
Van P. Clay

John D. Cline

Mark |. Curran
Robert A. Currie Jr.

Richard B. Dempster Jr.

James M. Dick
John C. Ellis

Gary L. Entsminger
Scott M. Fluharty
James L. Froggatt
C.D. Fuge

Peyton K. Gravely
William M. Gregg
Stephen G. Hand
Timothy J. Harrell
Jeffrey L. Hazel
Erik F. Hedegaard
Francis B. Hennegan
Ernest C. Mattox III
Glenn R. Melrose
Michael B. Miller
Grant E. Mouser IV
Thomas K. Murphy
Kevin M. Murray
Stephen B. Norris
John F. Peck Ill
Robert H. Raber
John D. Rosen
Mark T. Rushing
Istvan Takacs

James C. Vardell Ill
Ludwig C. Von Gohren
Kenneth N. Walter
Fredrick M. Williams

CLASS OF 1977L

William L. Keesler
Patricia A. Thursland
Hal S. Watkins

CLASS OF 1982
Mark T. Altermatt
Charles R. Austin
James D. Brockelman
David K. Burg

Henry B. Clay

Michael W. Coste
Timothy J. Crimi

Craig J. Dye

Charles C. Fernsell IV
Allen Gahan

Peter H. Goss

Jeffrey W. Gustafson
Francisco J. Guzman
Michael Judge

Grant A. Kunkowski
Steven D. LaPrade
Louis A. McCarten Jr.
James K. Moles Jr.
Timothy B. Monahan
Douglas C. Murphy
Ricey C. New
Thomas E. Noble
Wesley A. Peterson Jr.
Frank S. Rodgers
William C. Standeffer Jr.

William L. Whalen
James F. Williams

CLASS OF 1982L
Brooks D. Kubik

CLASS OF 1987
Clifton M. Ables
Andrew F. Bell
Andrew J. Bouie

Sean M. Butler
Charles M. Elmer
Robert H. English
Duane B. Graddy Jr.
Alicia D. Hall
Jefferson L. Harralson
Elliott J. Lambert
Brian J. Maloney
Donald L. McCoy
Jonathan S. Miles
Enrique J. Morales
Cooper N. Park

Martin G. Radvany
William W. Schoettelkotte
Hideki Suzuki

David G. Tambling
James G. Walton
Matthew J. Waterbury
Ronald A. Wilhelmsen Jr.

CLASS OF 1987L
Victor O. Cardwell
Marlow W. Cook, Jr.
Charles A. Shaffer
Randall F. Smouse

 

 

The Washington and Lee University
Alumni Magazine
Lexington, Virginia 24450

em On RO) eF
U.S.POSTAGE
ath?)

PERMIT NO. 6238
Oe els

 

 

 

 

