     
  

woe 2

» University Alumni Magazine
STONY I DT ae eee ae

 

 

AY) ACL LA SS
sprints past the defending
ODAC champion inthe 800-
meter run en route to a third-
Go finish at the ODAC
track and field championships,
held at W@L in April.

At RET. > ps af
Lie st ees

Re se Scand: Ps
POR ie

 

, (BRARY
JAMES.G. | AY JERSITY
WASHINGTON 3 "sg

LEXINGTC

JUL 0 8 19%

es EAT

12 / Double-Edged Sword.
As a frustrated law student, author Terry Brooks *69L retreated into a land

named Shannara. Eleven best-sellers later, he’s living every lawyer’s fantasy.

15 / Civil Warriors.
In the dirty-tricks world of ’90s politics, alumni Bill Brock °53,
Bob Goodlatte ’77L, and Billy Webster ’79 bring honor to the system.

18 / Restoring the Human Condition.
John Ellis °56 has designed a Broadway theater complex and entire Iranian towns,

but his most satisfying work provides homes for New York City’s homeless.

22 / For Weddings and a Funeral.
The “Shrine of the South” draws roughly 55,000 visitors each year,
but Lee Chapel is also a hot spot these days for W&L nuptials.

27 | Who is Bill Watt?

He was dean of the college for 13 years, and a professor of chemistry for 39.

He’s also a darn good “Jeopardy!” player (except for the rock ’n’ roll questions).

DEPARTMENTS

2 / From the Alumni President.

Mason New reviews the year as the Alumni Association saw it.

3 / Letters.

Remembrances of Elizabeth Otey Watson and the Class of ’44.

4 / The Colonnade.

Images and messages from commencement 1994; perspectives on Leyburn;

and a by-the-numbers overview going into the last year of the Campaign.

30 /W&L Law.

Law students vie for the coveted Dean’s Cup; Justice Elizabeth Lacy visits;

and a recent survey brings satisfaction—and a No. 1 ranking—to Lewis Hall.

32 / The Generals’ Report.
Four ODAC championships and an unofficial women’s track title: looking back

at a super spring. Also: Jimmy Kull ’94 trades the CMA for the PGA—maybe.
36 / Alumni News.

Better late than never: The Class of ’44 reunites and commences to graduate.

Also: a Hall of Fame preview; and our annual salute to Dads and Grads.

42 / Class Notes.
Neely Young °43 bleeds W&L blue; James Smith °62 chairs an exclusive club;

and playwright-musician-francophone-carpenter James Leva °80 does it all.

On the Cover: She’s going to Lee Chapel and she’s gonna get married:
Katherine Park ’90 is photographed on her wedding day to Vance Drawdy 89, ’92L.
Photograph by C. ‘Taylor Crothers II °93.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

A. Stevens Miles Jr. ‘51, Rector
John D. Wilson, President

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC.
(OFFICERS

Robert K. Wittpenn ‘82

President (Peapack, N.J.)

E. Neal Cory Il ‘77

Vice President (Louisville, Ky.)

James D. Farrar Jr. ‘74

Secretary and Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

Robert W.H. Mish Ill ‘76

Associate Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

DIRECTORS

Michael D. Armstrong °77 (Atlanta, Ga.)

R.K. Barton III °63 (Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.)
Walter S. Blake ’72 (Dallas, Texas)

T. Talbott Bond °51 (Baltimore, Md.)

Matthew J. Calvert °75, °79L (Richmond, Va.)
Ben S. Gambill Jr. 67 (Nashville, Tenn.)

B. Dallas Hagewood *90 (Adianta, Ga.)

H. Drake Leddy °71 (San Antonio, Texas)

Henry “Skip” Nottberg III ’71 (Kansas City, Mo.)
Alexa A. Salzman °89 (San Francisco, Calif.)
Jackson R. Sharman III °83 (Washington, D.C.)
Hatton C.V. Smith °73 (Birmingham, Ala.)

J.E. “Jet” Taylor III 84 (Westfield, N.J.)

James M. Turner Jr. ’67, °71L (Roanoke, Va.)
Tinkham Veale III °69 (Devon, Pa.)

H. William Walker Jr. 68, °71L (Miami, Fla.)
Donald W. Weir Jr. ’72 (Shreveport, La.)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
OFFICERS

Thomas M. Millhiser ‘81L
President (Richmond, Va.)
James C. Treadway Jr. ’67L
Vice President (New York, N.Y.)

LAW COUNCIL

Charles M. Berger "68L (Charlotte, N.C.)

Alfred J.T. Byrne °65, 68L (Washington, D.C.)
James M. Costan ’74L (Washington, D.C.)
Robert M. Couch °78, ’82L (Birmingham, Ala.)
William R. Goodell *80L (Atlanta, Ga.)
Theodore D. Grosser ’77L (Cincinnati, Ohio)
Robin P. Hartmann °71L (Dallas, Texas)

Milton T. Herndon ’56L (Charleston, W.Va.)
The Hon. William B. Hill Jr. °74, °77L (Atlanta, Ga.)
Carol L. Hoshall °’83L (Alexandria, Va.)

John D. Klinedinst ’71, ’78L (San Diego, Calif.)
Tabor R. Novak Jr. '66, °69L (Montgomery, Ala.)
Dana C. Petersen ’82L (Baltimore, Md.)

The Hon. W. Ray Price ’78L (Jefferson City, Mo.)
Laurie A. Rachford '84L (Houston, Texas)
David D. Redmond °66, ’69L (Richmond, Va.)
B. Cary Tolley III °78L (Darien, Conn.)

Patricia A. Van Allan ’80L (Houston, Texas)
Wilson F. Vellines Jr. 68, °73L (Staunton, Va.)
Elizabeth Devine Wiseman °81L (Nashville, Tenn.)
John A. Wolf 69, °72L (Baltimore, Md.)

 

From the Alumnt President

Report Card

 

The past 12 months have been
active ones for the Washington and
Lee Alumni Association. In addition to
continuing to encourage and monitor
the progress of our many successful

 

alumni programs, the Alumni Board of
Directors identified three major areas
of focus for the 1993-94 year: chapter
development, Annual Fund participa-
tion, and student life.

The health of our nationwide alum-
ni chapter network is the primary con-
cern of the Alumni Board of Directors.
Under the guidance of Bob Wittpenn
’82, the chapter development commit-
tee has concentrated on improving
communications between the Alumni
Board, the University, and the chapter
leadership, as well as making prepara-
tions for the chapter presidents’ conference to be held during Homecoming week-
end, Sept. 29-Oct. 1. Chapter presidents will have the opportunity to exchange ideas
and to communicate directly with the Alumni Board and members of the administra-
tion. This gathering will play a major role in strengthening W&L’s alumni chapter
organizations and I urge all chapter presidents to make every effort to attend.

Our primary development efforts have been focused on the establishment of a pro-
gram encouraging alumni chapters to organize chapter phonathons to assist in increas
ing alumni participation in the Annual Fund. Led by Neal Cory ’77, the development
committee worked with Annual Fund director Peter Cronin ’84 to initiate the chapter
phonathon program. Successful programs have been established in Louisville and
Charlotte, where participation levels are well above the 60 percent mark, and we
hope to inaugurate more next year. In future years this effort should result in signifi-
cant improvement in both the level of alumni participation as well as total funding of
this all-important program.

Under the leadership of Frank Surface *60, the student life committee took on the
task of evaluating the organizational structure and disciplinary procedures of the fra-
ternity system. The Alumni Board was subsequently able to communicate what We
hope to be constructive suggestions to the administration and the Board of ‘Trustees: ~

At its May meeting, the Alumni Board elected Bob Wittpenn °82 of Peapack, N. Js
president of the Alumni Association for 1994-95. Neal Cory ’77 of Louisville, Ky.,
elected vice president. Under the direction of Bob and Neal, the Alumni Association
will continue to strengthen its many worthwhile programs. I extend to them my D&

 

Passing the gavel: Wittpenn succeeds New,

    
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
  

wishes for continued success in their efforts on behalf of W&L.

In closing, let me express my gratitude for having had the opportunity to serys
W&L in this special capacity. There are many alumni deserving of leading the
Alumni Association, and I am honored to have been allowed to participate.

Mason T. New ’62
President, W@L Alumni Association

 

—

Letters

Missing Virs. Watson

| met Elizabeth Watson while I was
an undergraduate at Washington and
Lee, working as a student assistant in
the Reeves Center under the direction
of Jim Whitehead. I remember being
drawn immediately to Mrs. Watson, an
old friend of the Whiteheads, because of
her spunk and vigor. She was absolutely
one of the most independent, straight-
forward people I had ever laid eyes on.
Although she was a little older than
most of us, she was certainly feisty
enough to keep a conservative Jim
Whitehead on his toes, and I grew to
love her for that.

I remember being struck by how
intelligent Mrs. Watson was about
seemingly so many things—particularly
Chinese Export porcelain, Oriental
paintings, and other art. I suppose one
would be hard-pressed to remain obtuse
once exposed to all the things and to all
the places she had seen in her lifetime.
But it was as if she had a little filing cab-
inet in her brain from which she could
withdraw information on command.
There were times when I would literally
sit at her feet at Reeves Center gather-
ings, soaking in both her knowledge and
warmth.

The last time I spoke with Mrs.
Watson was last Thanksgiving Day. She
was upbeat and full of questions, as
always, wondering where I was and how
I was and how my writing was coming
along. She seemed content with her new
residence at a retirement facility in
Lynchburg, and | promised to visit her
the next time I got to Virginia. Unfortu-
nately, I never got the chance.

Elizabeth Watson became a role
model for me the day we met; and her
life, With its inquisitive energy, will con-
tinue to be

a great example for me of
how

to learn, how to give, how to love,
and how to live.

Joei Llyne Dyes ’91
Charleston, S.C.

Class Act

On May 14 in Lee Chapel, the Class
of ’44 extended me the honor of asking
me to sit with them at the annual meet-
ing of the W&L Alumni Association.
It’s very difficult to describe the thrill it
gave me to have my picture taken with
them and be there when they made
their magnificent endowment contribu-
tion to our beloved University.

I could go on and on about the Class
of 1944, but I believe that my class-
mates will permit me to speak for them
when I say, “Gentlemen, the Class of
1943 salutes you!”

M. Neely Young Sr. °43
Richmond

 

New Home, Old Name

The communications and publica-
tions offices and the office of career
development and placement at W&L
have moved into the old Sigma Chi
house, renamed Mattingly House in
honor of former registrar and treasurer
Earl Mattingly (a@dove). “Mr. Matt”
served the University for nearly 50 years
before retiring in 1966. He died later
that year.

The Alumni Magazine we/comes /et-
ters. Write: University Editor, Washington
and Lee University, Publications Office,
Mattingly House, Lexington, VA 24450.
Letters may also be faxed to (703) 463-
8024. All letters should include the author's
name, address, and daytime phone number.
Letters selected for publication may be edited
for length, content, and style.

 

VOLUME 69, NUMBER 2
SUMMER 1994

Brian D. Shaw, Executive Editor

Dick Anderson, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

W. Patrick Hinely ‘73, Photographer
Evan Atkins, Contributing Editor
William Cocke ‘82, Contributing Editor
Jerilyn Farren ‘93, Class Notes Editor
Brian Logue, Sports Editor

Karlic & Linthicum, Design

COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY BOARD

John Cleghorn °84

David M. Clinger °55
William H. Fishback Jr. °56
Farris P. Hotchkiss °58
Thomas V. Litzenburg °57
David Lotts ’74

Andrew H. McCutcheon °48
Robert Mottley 64
Elizabeth Obenshain
Howard Packett °58

Frank A. Parsons 54

Sarah K. Wiant ’78L
Robert Wittpenn ’82

Published quarterly by Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington
and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA
24450. Third-class postage paid at
Lynchburg, VA 24502. Signed articles
reflect the views of their authors and not
necessarily those of the editorial board or
the University.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
DIRECTORY

Switchboard (703) 463-8400
Publications Office (703) 463-8956
Alumni Office (703) 463-8464
Development Office (703) 463-8410
News Office (703) 463-8460

Sports Info. Office (703) 463-8676
W&L Sports Hotline (703) 463-8998

Photos: W. Patrick Hinely ‘73 (6), C. Taylor Crothers II ‘93 (3)

The Colonnade

 

Not unmindful of their futures (clockwise
from top left): 113 law degrees were award-
ed May 22; University marshal Barlow
Newbolt mans the mace at baccalaureate
June 1; Indiana Sen. Richard Lugar was
one of two honorary degre Te ipte nts—the
other was kvan Kemp '59—at commence-
ment June 2; four cap-and-gown types check
the program for their names; new grads
Ashley Scott and Alison Cowand; parental

paparazzi storm the stage; a few happy faces

from the Class of 1994; the University’s final

Army ROTC commissioning ceremony; and
finally, the after-party on the front lawn
lasted well into the afternoon.

4

They Came. They Studied. They Commenced.
W&L’s Class of 1994 Says Its Final Goodbyes

 

 

 

Washington and Lee University held its 209th commencement ceremony June Z
on the front lawn of the W&L campus. Bachelor’s degrees were awarded to approxi-
mately 342 seniors, and honorary degrees were conferred on Evan J. Kemp Jr. 59,
advocate for the disabled and head of Evan Kemp Associates, and Indiana Sem

   
   
   
  
   
  
 

Richard H. Lugar.

“This University has to be taken seriously,” Lugar said, “because many of you will
serve in the national Congress, surely at the state and local levels, all of you hopefully
. . . . ”
as extraordinarily warm advocates of good government and strength for our country.

 

He called this “a time of transition for America . . . from an easy situation of fight
ing a cold war that could have done us in, to an unknown predicament in which che
adversaries are not clear and the prospects of our unity are difficult. It is a ume @
which we have to come to grips with what the role of our country will be in the world.
... We are at a point, at least in my judgment, that very few other nations historically
have ever enjoyed... We are the catalyst that can call countries to the meeting, that

can try to formulate the agenda. We must play that role. Each one of you must be an

ate for the kind of change in the

advoc ' |
f our country that's
adership mood oO '
leadersh os
absolutely essential.

“Now you must prepare to leave us

d to leave each other,” Wilson said in
an é

his remarks.
ir talents with others. And

“Do well in the world and

share yO!

pay your parents and teachers in the
repay |

synly way you possibly can: by living
only Way > Pe

good lives and by helping in turn your
own chil |

out along the path of achievement and

decency that you have followed.

dren to start out well—to start

“Show your parents that you do
indeed understand one of life’s greatest
paradoxes: That true happiness comes
ro those who care first about others and
not themselves; who learn to give
deeply in love or compassion; who can
reach out beyond themselves to make
something good and helpful happen.”

“Godspeed from all of us here,”
Wilson told the graduates in closing. He
urged them to return to campus fre-
quently, “and think of us often, just as

we will often think of you.”
Baccalaureate

The Rev. Richard T. Harbison ’54,
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
in Lynchburg, Va., since 1987, prefaced
his remarks June 1 with a caveat:
“Baccalaureate speakers are almost uni-
versally forgotten,” he told his student
audience. “I ask you to indulge me
some reminiscing as I recall some of
those ideals and how they shaped my
life and my thinking.”

Talking about desegregation, he
recalled seeing Cry, the Beloved Country as
a student and
being “mesmer-
ized” by the film.
“But what moved
me much more
and enlightened
me was, at the end
of the movie, an
outburst of ap-

 

plause by the stu-
Reo H dent audience. I
€V. Ha)

left the theater

that afte
hat afternoon with a new awareness
that the world Ww

as changing and I was
changing with it.”

i

atthe Coe ey
De A i ~
en :

 

All smiles: President Wilson, the Hon. Robert R. Merhige Jr., and outgoing law dean Randall

P. Bezanson following commencement ceremonies May 22 for the law Class of 1994.

“No one can tell you where or for
what your fights will be, but at a time
when we as Americans, and as human
beings, are estranged religiously, cultur-
ally, sexually, ethnically, racially; and
when these differences are becoming
more and more idolatrous with us, it is
my hope that you will see your most
pressing challenge to be to understand,
to appreciate, and to learn to live with
your fellow inhabitants in this world.”

He added: “Human unity is not ours
to create. It is God’s, who has made of
one blood all the peoples of this earth. It
is Ours to recognize, to appreciate, and to
make manifest in the world.”

“What can an alumnus returning to
this campus say to you as you begin your
life beyond this Colonnade? I can re-
mind you, if indeed you need remind-
ing, that you are indebted, and will
always be indebted, to your liberal arts
education. Though you become a physi-
cian, lawyer, journalist, engineer, a
teacher, a politician, a farmer; and do not
recall and further your liberal arts educa-
tion, you will be the poorer for it and so
will be your profession.”

Harbison closed by saying: “Be true
to the ideals of this University. They
will serve you well. Be faithful to what
Washington and Lee stands for. She has
given you much. Pass it on.”

Law Commencement

The Hon. Robert R. Merhige Jr.,
senior judge for the U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia, delivered
the commencement address to the
139th graduating class of the
Washington and Lee School of Law on
May 22. Juris doctor degrees were
awarded to 113 third-year students.

Merhige, who was appointed to his
position for life by President Johnson in
1967, called the practice of law “the
most exciting of careers.” He told the
graduates, “the time of your life has
arrived when your obligation as an
American and as a member of a great
profession requires strength, dedication,
and resolution. To live is to require
time—and there is none to waste.
Utilize the time given you. Live in ser-
vice. So while you have the chance in
this time in your life, live, enjoy it, and
add to the beauty and wonder of the
world as we know it and as we want it.”

He added: “The period of time
through which we are passing is perhaps
the most challenging to our profession
of any period in American history. Ours
is simply not a business, but an occupa-
tion of learned men and women whose
principal objective is to aid in the doing
of justice. It is the responsibility of each

 

 

Seven-year itch: WEL’'s double-degree Class of 94 celebrates the end of a
row (from left): Jeffrey S. Rogers °91, °94L, Robert E. .

very long road. Front

Vatthews 89. 941, Gentenne A.

Mongno or ) 94]. Robert N. Miller 85. O41. Back row (from he tt): Jame S B. Lake 90
‘94L, William H. Surgner Jr. 87, °94L, and James E. Rambeau Jr. °91, °94L.

American, and especially those of our
profession, to take affirmative steps to
alleviate injustice.”

“Enjoy your responsibilities as
lawyers,” he concluded. “Keep in mind
that there are no small cases, no small
injustices. Sharing in justice is a right
given to each American and we cannot
stand by and permit any erosion of that
right. You have every reason to be
proud, my friends. Our country needs
you. Our profession needs you.”

“Of the six graduations in which |
have participated, this is a special one.
This year I, too, am graduating with
you,” said Randall P. Bezanson, dean of
the School of Law, in his final remarks
before stepping down as dean. “I share
with you the bittersweet feelings this
day occasions, for as we leave this spe-
cial place, we take important friendships
and memories with us. My greatest priv-
ilege is that of graduating with you from
this fine and noble institution. I won’t
forget Washington and Lee and I don’t

think you will either.”
Top GPAs: Safin, Hardin

Herman I. Safin of Moscow was
named valedictorian, compiling a grade-
point average of 4.080 on a 4.33 scale

during his two years at W&L. The eco-

nomics major arrived in 1992 through an
exchange program sponsored by the
American Collegiate Consortium.
Classmates Angie Carrington and Pat
McDermott received the Algernon
Sydney Sullivan Medallion, awarded by
the faculty to the graduating senior or
seniors who “excel in high ideals of liv-
ing, in spiritual qualities, and in gener-
ous and disinterested service of others.”

In law honors, Kelly Ann Hardin of
O’Fallon, Ill., received the John W.
Davis Prize for Law for the highest
cumulative GPA. The BNA Law
Student Award for the most satisfactory
scholastic progress in the final year went
to Joseph Raymond Whiteoak III of
Wilmington, Del.

Gunn, Huntley, McGuire
Retire From W&L Faculty

Washington and Lee professors John
M. Gunn °45, H. Robert Huntley, and
Odell S. McGuire retired at the end of
the academic year.

Gunn, the Lewis Whitaker Adams
professor of economics, studied at W&L
before enlisting in the Army, and com-
pleted his B.S. at Georgia Institute of

Technology in 1949. He received his

master’s from Princeton University in
1954 and joined the W&L faculty in

 

 

1957. Gunn has
taught the cap.
stone seminar for
senior economies
majors and js the
co-author of two
SUIVCYS ON inter.
national finance.
He has also tesgj-
fied before Con-
gress on the bal.
ance of payments
and healthcare finance reform.
Huntley, professor of English,
received his B.A. from Wisconsin State
University in 1953 and his M.A, and
Ph.D. from the University of Wiscon-
sin. He

 

John Gunn °45

taught at Northern Illinois
University from
1956 to 1959 be.
fore coming to
W&L in 1962,
Huntley’s prinei-
pal areas of teach-
ing are the British
novel and Rus-
sian literature in
translation. He

 

served as associ-
ate dean of stu-
dents and dean of
freshmen from 1977 to 1987, and as ©
assistant director of admissions from
1977 to 1980. Huntley is the author of
The Alien Protagonist of Ford Madox Ford
and articles on Gustave Flaubert and
Henry James. A Phi Beta Kappa, he re-

ceived the Ring-tum Phi award in 1981.
McGuire, professor of geology, fe-
ceived his B.A. from the University of
Tulsa in 1956, his

Bob Huntley

 

master’s from
Columbia Univer
sity in 1957, and
his Ph.D from the ~
University of ©
Illinois in 1962.

 

 

 

He was a geolo- —
gist for Texace
for four years
before coming ©
W&L in 1962
His fields of
interest are paleontology and geologl®

Odell McGuire

mapping in Virginia. He is also 4?
accomplished clawhammer banjo play&®

  

 

 

 

 

JAMES GRAHAM LEYBURN

      

LIBRARY

|

Members of the Beale, Deadwyler, Harlan, Lek evre,
Leyburn, McMurray, Taylor, and Thomas families
gather for the portrait unveiling May 28.

 

 

‘Leyburn + Socrates = God’

A Two-Day Celebration Commemorates the Life of W&L’s Legendary Man of Letters

James Graham Leyburn—dean of the
University, professor of sociology and
anthropology, accomplished scholar and
Pianist, and father figure to his nieces
and nephews—was remembered fondly
In ceremonies commemorating the dedi-
cation of the Leyburn Library at Wash-
ington and Lee May 27 and 28.

Following a Friday evening program
of music at the Lenfest Center featuring
professor of music emeritus Rob Stewart
and pianist Rob Vienneau ’87, °90L, for-
mer W&L president Robert E.R.
Huntley ‘50, °57L moderated a panel
discussion of Leyburn Saturday morning
Prior to the 1 p.m. dedication ceremony,
which was attended by hundreds of
alumni and friends, including 18 mem-

bers of Leyburn’s extended family. A
— and plaque honoring the

ece |R, i
ased W&L, dean were unveiled.

ee

But the seminar perhaps celebrated
most what Leyburn was about. Con-
sidering Leyburn from a student’s per-
spective, trustee William M. Gottwald
70 said, the words he kept returning to
were awe and inspiring. “There was an
aura, a presence, a physical something
about Leyburn to arriving students,” he
said. “He lived at a place called Mount
Olympus. Even students who only went
after the ‘gentleman’s C’ would go out
of their way to go to his classes.”

He added: “I have been exposed to a
lot of teachers in lots of schools, but
Leyburn was the antithesis of the
absent-minded professor. He was pre-
cise in his speech, precise in what he
presented to you; he was as organized as
could be, and objective.”

John M. McDaniel ’64, professor of
sociology at W&L, presented the acade-

mic side of Leyburn—the distinguished
scholar who wrote six books (including
The Haitian People and The Scotch-Irish: A
Social History) and numerous articles.
“Leyburn’s anthropology endorsed a
relativistic theory of culture that argued
that culture defined human behavior
and all cultures and the institutions they
comprised were worthy of study,” he
said. “He wrote with meticulous care,
but his scholarship was not devoid of
humor. His work has endured.”

Former bookstore manager Betty
Munger gave a picture of Leyburn as a
member of Lexington and Rockbridge
County and as a friend. “It was by way
of his music that the community came
to know him best,” she said. “The piano
remained a deep pleasure during his
entire life.” The night before his ap-
pointment as dean, she added, Leyburn

“wondered all night what sort of contri-
bution he could make toward his dream
of Washington and Lee’s academic
greatness. Today’s dedication is the
highest sort of evidence of Jimmy
Leyburn’s success toward that goal.”

Phillip W. Turner III °58, president
and dean of Berkeley Divinity School at
Yale University, recalled Leyburn’s
“extraordinary” modesty and restraint in
reflecting on his active religious life.
“What I do remember as a student was a
man of sympathy and care who was wise
and allowed me to draw upon his
strength and wisdom when I had none
of my own,” he said. “He had an orderly
and focused life that to me was not a
sign of neurosis but of freedom.” As a
spiritual guide, he saw that college stu-
dents had religious questions. “Through
his life, God caught hold of some of us.”

On a whimsical note, nephew Boyd
H. Leyburn ’52 recalled his “first major
dilemma and crisis” as an entering
freshman at W&L—namely, how to
address his uncle. He suggested “Uncle
Dean” to his family, but wiser heads
prevailed—he called him Uncle Jimmy.

Finally, and fittingly, Gottwald
recalled seeing an old wooden table in
McCormick Hall where someone had
seen fit to scrawl the following message.
It said: Leyburn + Socrates = God.

Canfield Stepping Down
As Basketball Coach

Head men’s basketball coach Verne
Canfield has announced plans to step
down as Generals basketball coach after
the 1994-95 season. Canfield, a tenured
faculty member, will remain at W&L as
an associate professor of physical educa-
tion and will continue in his role as
intramural director.

Canfield, a 1955 graduate of Cal-
Santa Barbara, joined the W&L athletic
department in September 1964 as an
assistant professor of physical education
and head men’s basketball coach and
was elevated to associate professor sta-
tus in 1969. In 30 years at W&L, he has
compiled a record of 450-322, guiding
the Generals to College Athletic Confer-
ence championships in 1967, 1968, 1970,
and 1971; a Virginia Collegiate Athletic

 

 

 

 

Building Kids Playce: Kathekon members Jeffrey Buntin, Jane Finney, and Anne-Michelle

Langlois, all members of the Class of ’95, lend a hand to the construction of Lexington’s new

playground. April 28 was designated as Building Day for the $70,000 park.

Association championship in 1976; and
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
championships in 1977, 1978, and 1980.

Ripken Comes Back

Junior Nicole Ripken was one of
W&L’s top women’s lacrosse players in
1993 when she was diagnosed with a
brain tumor this
past January. Rip-
ken underwent six
hours of surgery to
remove the tumor,
which was found
to be benign but
still growing, and
doctors cleared
her to return to

 

the lineup in
April. Now she
wears a fae kwon do helmet for protec-
tion, and she’ll have to wear it for the
rest of her life in contact sports, but Rip-
ken wasted no time letting everyone
know she was back.

In W&L’s 15-9 win over Sweet Briar
on April 11, the Lutherville (Md.) resi-
dent scored six goals for the Generals.
Ripken went on to earn second-team
All-ODAC and honorable mention All-
Region honors after scoring 19 goals
with six assists in just nine games. “I’m
very, very fortunate,” she told Roanoke

Nicole Ripken

Times & World-News columnist Jac
Bogacyzk. “I’m lucky to still be playir
lacrosse, I’m fortunate to still be he
going to school, going to class. I’m pre
ably lucky to be alive.”

Faculty Bookshelf

‘TAXES ON KNOWLEDGE IN AMERICA, t
Randall P. Bezanson (University ¢
Pennsylvania Press; $44.95). In his see
ond book, Bezanson examines the is

of governmental taxation of the press, ¢
taxes on knowledge and informatior
His principal focus is on the taxation ¢
current information published by th
daily and periodical press, but he ¢

discusses books, non-news periodical
television and radio, telecommuni¢
tions, computer networks, and the post
system. Bezanson retired in June ait
six years as dean of the School of Law.

‘THE CONCEPT OF FAITH: A PHILOSOE
ICAL INVESTIGATION, by William
Sessions (Cornell University Pres
cloth, $36.95). Using six theoreti¢
models, Sessions analyzes and compé®
seven different conceptions of faith
from Christian to secular, Hindu, ¢
Buddhist—to discern the “unity a@
the diversity of these different cone+
tions.” Sessions is professor of phil:
phy and associate dean of the college

arthur Retires to
Greener Pastures

Jim Arthur has covered a lot of

d—and a great many buildings—

groun
in three

decades of service to W&L, in-
cluding 19 years
as superinten-
dent of buildings
and grounds. Be-
fore hanging up
his handle June
30, Arthur was
hailed at W&L’s
annual employ-
ee recognition

 

banquet: “He
knows our build-
ings; he knows his people,” said treasur-
er Larry Broomall. “He can be hard-
nosed and he can be like a little puppy
dog,” he added, “although I haven't
seen him like a puppy very often.”

Cole, Huntley,
Wilson...Buckley?

William F. Buckley Jr. has been
called many things over the years, but
president of Washington and Lee wasn’t
one of them—until the Washington and
Lee Spectator nominated the founder of
National Review
and host of T'V’s
“Firing Line” to
the post on the
occasion of his
visit to Lee
Chapel March
30. The notion
seemed to take
him somewhat

 

by surprise, but
the Yale-educat-

€d Buckley,

Words : =. oh :
tds, wrote his friend, Hugh Newton

who is never at a loss for

52 “ f . :
‘ : If] am drafted into that office, the
St thing l will de

) IS give you an hon-
rary degree,”

a

 

 

 

You've Been a Strange
Audience—Good Night

Novelist Clyde Edgerton (Raney)
said a mouthful when he spoke in
Lee Chapel April 20. Reading from
his work-in-progress, Red Eyes,
wherein an attempt to shock a
mummy back to life only sets the
bandaged fossil on fire, he paused
and told the receptive crowd: “You
really are a strange audience.”

 

 

 

 

A Man, His Dog,
And His Portrait

If the image of James Graham
Leyburn that greets people walking
into the newly christened Leyburn
Library looks familiar, consult your
1949 Ca/yx. Ukrainian-born artist
Marcos Blahove worked from black-
and-white photos of the revered
W&L dean to create his portrait,
borrowing prominently from the
aforementioned yearbook photo.
Blahove, who lives in Greensboro,
N.C., is renowned for capturing the
likeness and spirit of his subjects—
he also painted the portrait of
Rupert Latture *15 that hangs in the
library. (His poodle simply hangs
around the studio.)

Ae

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The 39 Swings

Journalism and communications
professor Bob de Maria reviews a
collection of 78s and LPs donated
by the Hon. Bleakley James ’50L
with 39 choral and big-band record-
ings of “The W&L Swing”—Gene
Krupa, Kay Keyser, Pete Fountain,
you name ’em. Earle Palmer Brown
"44 assembled 20 of the best for a
tape for his reunion classmates.

 

 

Photos: Buckley (C. Taylor Crothers I! ‘93); Blahove (Brian D. Shaw

 

COU

year remains until the com-
pletion of the Campaign for
Washington and Lee, which
had raised nearly $103 million
through June 1. The goal:
$127 million by June 30, 1995.

2

 

matching gifts totaling $5 mil-
lion have been offered for the
new science center. The
Christian A. Johnson Founda-
tion challenge ($1 for every $2
raised) has nearly been met;
the anonymous $4 million
“Match George” challenge,
matching gifts of $50,000 or
more, has attracted $1.2 mil-
lion so far.

10

issues of On the Shoulders of
Giants have carried more than
200 Campaign-related stories.

10.5

million in campaign commit-
ments have come through the
Annual Fund.

18

names have been added to
the Honored Benefactors Wall
(for lifetime gifts of $1 million
or more) since the Campaign
began. (There’s still room.)

A)

million has been raised t
endow academic program
and professorships toward
total of $32 million.

23

million has been committe
by current and former mef
bers of the University’s Boal
of ‘Trustees, Alumni Boé
and Law Council.

32

   
   
  

 

new scholarships have bee
created, and 8 new profess
ships have or will result 1f0
Campaign commitments.

foundations have contributed
$8,692,285 to the Campaign.
Another 183 corporations have
given $1,976,814.

462

double-degree holders have
contributed $5.9 million to
date. In addition, 482 current
and former faculty and staff
have committed $561,035.

137

Parents of current students
have given $828,249. From
42 Past parents: $5.8 million.

a

 

friends have donated $9.9
million to the Campaign.
W&Ls philanthropic heritage
is rich with the gifts of those
who never attended the
University—beginning with
George Washington’s $50,000
gift of James River stock.

13,953

individual donors have already
made commitments so far to
the Campaign for Washington
and Lee. Did we forget any-
bodyr

 

 

 

A statistical
abstract of the
Campaign for
Washington and
Lee—so far

DOUBLE
EDGED

 

With the 1977 publication of his first
book, 7he Sword of Shannara—an epic tale
of one man’s battle against evil in an alter-
nate reality replete with elves, gnomes,
trolls and dwarfs—Terry Brooks ’69L was
heralded by some as the heir apparent to the
J.R.R. Tolkien throne. In fact, it was after
reading 7he Lord of the Rings as an English
literature major at Hamilton College that he
decided to become a writer in the genre, but
Brooks had at least one personal dragon that
needed slaying before that fantasy would
come true.

It all began a little more than 25 years ago,
in the less-than-enchanting world of law
school. Knight-errant Brooks was disconsolate,
and on the verge of packing his bags and leav-
ing for home, when he decided to take up arms
by retreating into his own imagination. ‘There
he discovered the Sword of Shannara, an
ancient talisman endowed with Druid magic
and capable of defeating a seemingly invincible
evil—namely, torts and contracts.

“I hated law school—I really did. I still despise
it,” Brooks says by telephone from Toronto,
where he’s promoting his 11th novel, 74e Tangle
Box. “It was a good thing, I guess, because I got so
upset about the way things were going, I just decid-
ed that I had to do something with myself besides
staring at the television set during my free time, so I
started working on Sword.”

After graduating from W&L, Brooks returned
home to northern Illinois and joined a small firm, but
he continued to write as well. Eight years and 726 pages
later, with the publication of The Sword of Shannara,

Terry Brooks ‘691 is
living every lawyers
fantasy, but the best-
selling author of the
Nhannara series 1s
licked that magic
gels as bad a rap
as law school
BY MARK

MATTOX

+o
12

ding writer, it was also attractive to come
against people with their problems, and try |
resolve them.”

enormous success—he’s a household name for fan
fantasy literature—but he remains chagrined that |
average reader doesn’t take the genre more seriou!
“There are some misconceptions about what fantas)
about;
John Grisham book, which takes place in the here

  
 
   
 
  
 
   
    
    
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
   
  

 

 

Lf

 

Brooks suddenly found himself perched h
upon The New York Times best-seller list. I
position he’s become accustomed to: 11 ¢
secutive best-sellers with 11.4 million cop

in print. Sword spawned two sequels
Elfstones of Shannara and The Wishson
Shannara) as well as the four-book Heritz

of Shannara series, which takes place 3
years later. Brooks gave up his law practice
1985 to transport readers to magic places f
time. And to think it all began in Lexington

In looking for a law school, Broa

recalls, “I wanted a small school with a go
academic reputation, and Washington and I
was the place that finally emerged from
that.” But given his acknowledged misgivil
about the experience, why practice la
“Before Nixon and Watergate and all the
stuff, lawyers were pretty good people and w
highly respected, and looked upon kindly,
explains. “I lived in a small town, and
lawyers who lived there did whatever they ce
with whatever walked through the door, and t
worked one-on-one with people, and that
very attractive. And for a person who was a &

As a lawyer-turned novelist, Brooks has achi

that it’s otherworldy and not as accessible as Sé

Brooks began Vhe Sword of Shannara

even as he struggled with his studies at VE

“The third year was good,” he says, “but my

UAC

 

now,” he says. “People think they don’t like fantasy, but they
read it, and they don’t even realize it. A book like Shoeless Joe,
which was made into the movie Fie/d of Dreams, is a perfect
example of a contemporary fantasy.”

Reading fantasy isn’t exactly like reading Nathaniel
Hawthorne—which is good news in itself—but that’s also sort
of the point: Like other popular genre fiction such as mystery,
romance, or western, readers gobble up a favorite writer’s
books “like pieces of candy,” says Brooks, whose turnout is
already prolific and accelerating, as he now plans to publish a
book a year for at least the next decade.

But Brooks’ novels are more than bubble gum for the mind.
Rich in language and detail, and evocative of Tolkien, the
Shannara stories address real-world issues ranging from racial
genocide to environmental crises, even as the characters
inhabit a world very different from this one. Lighter in tone
and metaphorically autobiographical is his Magic Kingdom of
Landover series, which Brooks began in 1986 with the publi-
cation of Magic Kingdom for Sale—Sold!

Kingdom’s hero is Ben Holiday, a disenchanted Chicago
lawyer who finds a magic kingdom listed for sale in a
Christmas catalog for $1 million. At once incredulous and
hopeful, Ben buys into it and soon finds himself with a set of
directions that take him to Milepost 13 on the Blue Ridge
Parkway, about an hour north of Lexington, where to his
amazement he is magically conveyed to the otherworldly king-
dom of Landover (see excerpt below). As Landover’s new king,
Ben takes claim to a castle known as Sterling Silver, but he
also inherits a host of new problems as the administrator of a
feudal state—not to mention the challenge of competing in a
duel to the death with an evil demon lord.

“When I started out with the series, Ben Holiday was very
much me,” says Brooks, who grew up in the Illinois steel town
of Sterling. “He has drifted away quite a bit over the years...
I was in a fairly dark place in my life when I wrote that story,
and now I’m pretty contented, and things are going good.”

The Tangle Box, Brooks’ latest offering, continues the

7 :
5 f ;
. :
/
oteoeee ee eet
7 :
,
;
é
. $
cose 3 :
/ - '

     

 

L

 

The two lane highway wound steadily upward into the Blue Ridge, weaving through the tangle of forest
mountain rock, rising into the late November sunlight ... 3
He was in a clearing. The forest rose up all about him, misted and dark, but he could still glimpse traces

daylight beyond its screen. He started to his feet.
It was then that he saw the dragon.

14

odes Solietgetline * ieuatibee ——— —  — elles : mend , ¢

He reached the entrance to the Skyline Drive in a little more than thirty minutes and turned south onte

  
  
    
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
   
    
 
  
  
   
 
  
    
   
 
  

Holiday saga. “He’s gotten away from his life, but he ol
quite get away from what life requires of him. It’s the s,
idea—I’m not a lawyer anymore, but you never get away
the fact that there are legal demands out there, and what w
know about the law comes into play in peripheral ways, }
that’s what Ben has found out in his tenure as king over the
that he doesn’t completely break free.”

Brooks divides his time these days between homes in Sear
and Hawaii with his wife of seven years, Judine. It’s a we
away from his childhood experiences in the Midwest, where ¢
idea of reading science fiction was seen as something reprehg
sible. “In the town I grew up in, we didn’t even have a be
store—it was just a newsstand—and the science fiction
stocked back next to the skin mags,” he recalls. “As a boy, y
had to walk back there, and you knew they were watching y¢
and it was very uncomfortable.”

Brooks occasionally speaks to groups of educators, read
associations, and librarians to underscore the importance
reading in his own life and to warn against the literary cens,
he experienced as a youth. “I like to stress the difficulties tha
encountered growing up in the 50s and early 60s with educ
tors who limited what you could read and tried to say, ‘Read
Scarlet Letter, don’t waste your time on that trashy science
tion,’ and to explain the importance of allowing young reac
access to whatever interests them,” he says. “They’ll find tk
way to The Scarlet Letter sooner or later, if you give them t
opportunity.” |

Brooks is busy finishing up his next book, Witch’s Brew,
fifth installment in the Landover series, which is scheduled
release sometime next year. He plans to begin work on
entirely new series in the fall, which he promises will take
his most loyal readers to places they've never been before.

All of which begs the question: Does Brooks really just
these things up? Or does he actually live part-time in anot
dimension, only to return to this world to write about his adv
tures? “Metaphorically, it’s definitely real,” says Brooks, la
ing a bit at the idea. “It’s pretty much where I live.” #

     

OQ

 

ty
“

»,
%

—From Magic Kingdom For Sa

 

_
a
g

 

“When I win, I can make a difference,” says Brock, campaigning in his adopted Maryland.

IN THE DIRTY-TRICKS WORLD OF ’90s POLITICS,

THREE W&L ALUMNI BRING HONOR TO THE SYSTEM.

By: William Gocké. °88

Politics. You know, the subject that,
along with religion (and these days,
coeducation at VMI), is to be avoided at
all costs at a dinner party.

For three Washington and Lee grad-
uates, politics is not a dirty word. To
them, public service is a calling that is as
necessary as breathing and as noble as
the ministry. “Politics is the most exhil-
arating, challenging, rewarding career I
can think of,” says the Hon. William E.
Brock III ’53, Republican candidate for
the U.S. Senate in Maryland. “You’re
trying to represent the best that’s in
people, whether it’s in a small town, a
district, or a state. It will test you like
nothing else. Your friends will be true,
because there’s only one commodity of

any value in politics: your integrity.”

Whether they are keepers of the
GOP flame, such as Brock and Robert
W. Goodlatte ’77L, Republican con-
gressman for Virginia’s Sixth District; or
Clinton Administration stalwarts, such
as William M. Webster IV °79, chief of
staff for Education Secretary Dick
Riley, these three alumni hearken back
to a political ideal that owes more to the
moderating influence of that great anti-
politician, Robert E. Lee, than to the
current level of shrillness in public
debate. Whatever their reasons for
entering the system, they have managed
to bring a level of decency, civility, and
hard work to the increasingly bitter and
divisive world of politics.

15

Photo: Michael Williamson/The Washington Post

3
ee
:
a
“ Se
ty
at,
a.
ie
‘ae
‘a
‘a
:
ey
4g
“3 .
vf
ae
a :
*!
. aa
* ‘w :
*, ~i

Photo: C. Taylor Crothers II ‘93

 

“We need to bring government closer to the people,”

Bill Brock got his first taste of politics
as a poll-watcher for Dwight D. Eisen-
hower during the 1956 presidential elec-
tion in his heavily Democratic home-
town of Chattanooga, ‘Tenn. Brock, who
had yet to declare a party affiliation, dis-
covered that Republican poll-watchers
were not very popular: He was physical-
ly threatened on election day, as were
members of his family and friends—and
the authority figures in charge did noth-
ing to stop the goings-on. “They all said
it was someone else’s responsibility,” he
recalls. “It got me angry and I said to
myself that whoever was running the
town ought not to be there.”

Eight years later, Brock became the
first Republican in more than 40 years to
be elected to the House of Represen-
tatives from Tennessee’s Third District,
and today he has one of the longest poli-
tical resumes in the GOP. His current
effort to oust Democrat Paul Sarbanes
from his U.S. Senate seat in Maryland is
just the latest chapter in a 32-year politi-
cal saga. If Brock is successful—and the
word on the street gives him a very good
shot at the Republican nomination in
September—he will be the first person
since 1870 to represent more than one
state in the Senate.

Brock was first elected to the Senate
in 1970, unseating veteran Democrat
Albert Gore Sr. Losing a re-election bid

16

 

 

 

says Goodlatte, talking to vets in Lynchburg.

in 1976, he was promptly elected nation-
al chairman of the Republican party, and
is credited with bringing the GOP back
from the Waterloo of Watergate. By suc-
cessfully opening up the party to
minorities, blue-collar workers, and
young people, he helped pave the way
for Ronald Reagan’s victory in 1980.

In reward for his service to the party
and drawing on Brock’s experience in
economics, President Reagan appointed
in 1981.
He went on to become the 18th secre-

him U.S. ‘Trade Representative

tary of labor during Reagan’s second
term, bowing out in 1987 to run Sen.
Bob Dole’s failed presidential campaign.
In 1989, he formed The Brock Group,
an international trade consulting firm.

It was back in the private sector that
Brock began to notice in society an in-
cremental erosion in traditional values,
and it worried him. All he had to do was
to imagine what life would be like for
his grandchildren—and that was
enough, he says, for him to throw his hat
back into the ring and try a second run
at the Senate, this time in his adopted
state of Maryland.

Asked whether the game of politics is
worse now than it was 30 years ago,
Brock gives an unequivocal yes. Back
then, he says, “you knew what you were
up against when you were dealing with
the bosses. Politics was fun, there was

  
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 

energy and excitement in doing things
‘Today, he notes, partisanship has
on a “mean and personal and bitte
tone: “I have a lot of good and hones
Democratic friends, but it has gotten
the point where the only things we ¢.
about are the things that don’t count.”

It’s too soon to tell whether th
Senate race will be fought on the issue
or on things that don’t much coun
(Brock’s campaign was plagued Carly ¢
with residency questions). Even wir
Sarbanes’ own political liabilities—he’
called the “Stealth Senator” at home
Maryland remains heavily Democratic
If nominated, Brock will have a bruga
eight weeks between the open pri
on Sept. 13 and the general electigy
But W&L professor of politics Willian
Connelly says the contest will be inter
esting to watch because Brock is “a ser
ous and talented candidate who is wel]
respected and will bring in all sorts 9
experience.”

Why leap back into the fray? “It’s j
my blood,” Brock admits. And it’s one
of the few areas where one person with
a passion can still effect change: “I have
a passion for education, free enterpris
and the restoration of values,” he says.
“All of this I’m willing to fight for.”

But is it still fun? Brock thinks for
minute and replies: “Yes. Still. Wel
two out of three days it 1s.”

   
    
   
    
 
    
 
   
  
  
   
 
  

Freshman Congressman Bob Good
latte is beginning to sound like a sea
soned politician. Running for re-electior
on a record of congressional reform ant
fiscal responsibility, he advocates limit-
ed government and increased decentfé
ization. “We need to bring governmet
closer to the people,” he says. “The
ther away it goes, the less effective it is
Public servants should always know
where their constituents are.”

Goodlatte began gravitating tows
his future calling as a government majo or
at Bates College in Lewiston, Me. In hi
first taste of electoral success, he
chosen to be president of the studen
governing body. As a first-year law S™
dent in Lexington, Goodlatte marri¢
his college sweetheart and campaig
partner, Maryellen Flaherty, in Le
Chapel (she worked for a year befo

Vu

 

Webster's job is to be an “honest broker” to

his boss, Secretary of Education Dick Riley.

entering the law school’s class of 1978).
Living the classic “hand-to-mouth exis-
tence,” as he recalls it, of a struggling
young law student, he worked his way
through school, at one point selling 77me
and Sports I//ustrated subscriptions and
working in the Bluebird bus factory in
Buena Vista one summer.

After graduating, Goodlatte worked
as Republican Congressman Caldwell
Butler’s district office manager for the
next two years. The Holyoke (Mass.)
native came to know Virginia’s sixth
congressional district like the back of his
hand, groundwork that would pay off 13
years later. “This district is the size of
Connecticut,” he explains. “I traveled
from Monterey to Lynchburg, Roanoke
to Waynesboro, and all points in be-
tween, getting to know the constituents
and listening to their problems.”

In 1980, he founded his own private
law practice in Roanoke, later becoming
4 partner in the firm of Bird, Kinder,
Huffman. He served as Roanoke City
Republican Committee chairman from
1980 to 1983, headed the local Bush for
President effort in 1988, and chaired the
committee to re-elect Sen. John Warner
e 1990. But it was incumbent Democrat
Jim Olin’s decision not to seek re-elec-
. In 1992 that prompted Goodlatte to
pray his hand. With a slogan that
Promised “Republican leadership—for a

el

change,” he campaigned on a platform
that united the disparate elements of his
party, and handily defeated Democratic
opponent Steve Musselwhite. Goodlatte
has no formal Democratic opposition yet
as he seeks re-election in November.
Like many of his freshman col-
leagues, Goodlatte has pushed for Con-
gressional reform from day one. He’s all
for term limits, and he advocates spend-
ing cuts as a partial remedy for bringing
the deficit under control. In fact, Good-
latte considers himself a business-ori-
ented member of the House, an old-
fashioned conservative in a moderate-to-
conservative district. He has been active
in planning for two proposed interstates
that, if approved, would run through the
southwest portion of the district: “Even
though they are probably 30 years from
completion, we need to plan now.”

On the first Friday in June, fresh
from an assault on the West Buttress of
Mt. McKinley, Billy Webster still sports
a trim, gray-flecked beard. In anticipa-
tion of a long, hot Washington summer,
this souvenir of four weeks of sub-zero
temperatures will be gone by Monday as
Webster turns his energies to tackling
the mountain of paperwork on his desk.

As chief of staff for Secretary of Edu-
cation Richard W. Riley, Webster serves
as liaison with the White House, but his
primary responsibility is controlling the
flow of information to his boss. With a
staff of more than 5,000 in a Cabinet
department with a $31 billion budget,
that can mean diverting a lot of people
and paper. “What I have to do is focus
on the two to three things that matter
most and bring them to the Secretary’s
attention,” Webster says, “so that he has
time to focus on the big issues and not
the 2,000 little things that come up.”

Webster is ideally suited to be the
point man for the former South Carolina
governor, having known Riley since
childhood. “He and my father are the
same age,” explains the Greenville
(S.C.) native, “and my family has been
involved in his political campaigns.
Next to my father, there is no one I feel
a closer kinship to than Dick Riley.”

Another high-ranking Democrat in
Washington with whom Webster is close

(and is an occasional jogging partner)
lives at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. “I
got to know Bill Clinton about eight or
nine years ago,” says Webster, who
served as S.C. finance chairman for the
Clinton campaign in 1992. When Clin-
ton asked Riley to become head of
Presidential personnel during the transi-
tion, Webster—in town for a one-year
stint as a White House Fellow—was
chosen by Riley to join the transition
team. When the ex-governor went over
to Education, Webster went with him.
“A lot of what I do now is not unre-
lated to what I used to do,” he says. As
head of Carabo Inc., which operates 27
Bojangle’s Famous Chicken ’n’ Biscuits
franchises in South Carolina, Webster
managed some 1,000 employees and
saw firsthand those whom the public
school system had passed by: “I devel-
oped an interest in public education
because I dealt with its failures.”
Webster sees the Department of Ed-
ucation as a catalyst for change, a bully
pulpit through which Clinton and Riley
can communicate their ideas. His hope
is that the passage and Signing in April
of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act,
the first piece of major educational
reform legislation in 20 years, will bring
positive change to the nation’s public
schools. “The cornerstone of the pro-
gram is the establishment of world-class
standards for core subjects: English,
mathematics, science, history, geogra-
phy, foreign languages, and art,” he
explains. “The United States is the only
industrialized nation that does not have
legitimate expectations of its students.
If we want to compete with our peers,
we have to improve our standards.”
Webster’s long-term plans to return
to the private sector have picked up
speed since his mountain sojourn in
May: As this magazine was going to
press, he announced plans to step down
from his Education post and return to
the private sector in Greenville. “One
should serve and then go back to where
you came from,” he says, pointing to
Cincinnatus, the famous Roman general
and statesman, as a role model. “There
has to be some sort of grounding—oth-
erwise, it’s too easy to lose touch with
what real people have to deal with.” @

17

 

John Ellis °56 has always loved old
buildings. “I find endless fascination
with what you can do with an old build-
ing,” says the New York City-based
architect, and part of his practice is sim-
ply historic restoration of older buildings
in and around the nation’s largest city.

But it’s the other side of his work—
working with affordable housing and
special needs population—that brings
out skills that hearken back less to days
in architectural school at MIT’, and more
to his experiences as a wrestler at W&L.
“One of my younger associates sees
himself and me as Batman and Robin
because we climb up fire escapes and go
across roofs,” says the 1955 Mathis War
Memorial ‘Trophy winner for his contri-
butions to the wrestling squad. “There’s
a certain adventure to it.”

— +.
-
_

LT me

Dd AL. bdhed AL Mtl dA dda cd ila Bod hd Lcd EY AE ad a

It typically begins, he says, with
“some of the most awful, frightening
buildings that you’ve ever seen—build-
ings that are absolutely dangerous to
walk in.” His recent or current projects
include: an alcohol crisis center and
transitional reception center; single
room occupancy units (or SROs) for the
homeless mentally ill and partially dis-
abled homeless adults; a community res-
idence for severely mentally retarded
adults; and the conversion of a long-
vacant and deteriorating school into 73
low- and moderate-income apartments.

“IT guess I’ve always cared about shel-
ter and I’ve had an interest in people
who have less than others,” he explains.
“It’s something that I’ve done almost
from the beginning, although I didn’t
see it as a pattern until recently. After

x :
=< nan meny~denetlnyenen- -reemereghene meetin, ~* — oa a
ven carer - ; nts
: » yam 7 -

;

Tt

es

ie

‘ - " '
er et Ae mg tem
:

 

 

 

 

 

«> shee Crm get wine mira SAS 2. vv A
- :

take

  

I’ve drawn up something, I say, if ] We
. . : re
living here, which apartment Would |

want and why?. Then you start thinkin
g

Ellis’s interest in architecture dates
back well before he entered Washington

about how to make them better.”

and Lee, when he designed his first
building (“not that it got built”) at the
age of 15. But it was while taking a
course under Marshall Fishwick, then
associate professor of American Studies,
titled American Art and Architecture,
that a blueprint for his life’s Work
emerged. “For a term project, you had q
choice of either writing something or
designing your dream house,” he recalls,
“and so of course I chose to design my
dream house. So I was working up in the
engineering lab where the drawing
tables were, and I was so wrapped up in

 

gj fee wg 4 7s x
- 2 : 7 t-
pee FD a - :
} ‘

tsa
a
‘a

CRN a.

<

.
(se
—

.

| x2 ope oon ea “TOF
PINOT ATIOM OMe

Dri a-obae

- |
4

Stet eneetinteedie en ee

i tiantaiadainmetmdiane tended atone dh nen 2 tee ee eee ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| was doing that the next thing I

shat ?
- . | was missing dinner. I figured,
chis is try!
After gt

—. hat I did t to |
> th: re re

«sced me that | did not want to
convince

ied architecture
1961. Then he went to England to work

with a wom
t MIT as a critic) and her hus-

,¢ to tell me something.
= .
aduating from W&L, Ellis

a year In engineering—“It

er’—and from there he stud-
at MIT, graduating in

an (who had reviewed his
work a

band with <
“I made a commitment to stay

, well-known architectural

practice.
for one year,
staving seven.”

Midway through his stay, he became
involved with a group of eight working-
class London families who had banded

’ he says, “and I wound up

together in what was called a self-built

group. They anted to build houses,

raed ae :/ Bee

: Sa | Oa  .&

ae bas ; ry ag

; ea Se ee
- A

ae a) Boe ee Dee Se aN are

tei ie dee

BY DICK ANDERSON

one for each family, in a narrow piece of
land, 60 feet wide, that had been used
for a railway (it’s called a railroad cut-
ting). Ellis designed a block of maison-
ettes for the families which they built
with their own hands over evenings,
weekends, and vacations over a two-year
period.

Ellis recalls the experience fondly.
“When you’re working with a develop-
er, the developer makes the decisions—
you don’t know who's going to live
there as individuals. But in this case, |
was working with the actual future resi-
dents, and I could feel their excitement
in the whole creative process. So the
whole thing worked.”

In 1977, Ellis ventured to Iran as one
of four architects hired by a Persian
engineering firm to design a new town

Pe
‘4

for 7.000 lower-middle-income families
built, he says, “on traditional Persian
planning principles.” Every apartment
had a shaded verandah facing south
because of “a mystical attitude that they
had toward the sun,” he recalls. “At the
same time, on a religious note, we had
to be extremely careful that none of the
toilets faced Mecca.” The design won a
number of awards, and a second town
was planned, but construction dragged
on in the preliminary stages when trou-
ble broke out in the form of the
Ayatollah. “We got out of Iran just
ahead of the revolution,” he says.
“Through the World Court at the
Hague, we managed to collect our fees
over a number of years.”

Back in the States, Ellis and his
American partners in Iran did a variety

 

 

 

 

On location: John Elis at the Lower East Side site of La Casa de Esperanza, a mutual
housing project for 48 lower-income families—he creates “happy opportunities” out of blight.

of things, including building a 100-unit
high-rise in Denver during the go-go
80s before closing a branch office there
after the oil glut hit. Another project
entailed designing a theater complex for
Michael Bennett, the ‘Tony award-win-
ning director and choreographer of A
Chorus Line and Dreamgirls. “He wanted
to have a theater with a good stage
where he could stage his own shows
with a practice stage in the same build-
ing built to the exact same proportions,
meaning a show could be rehearsed
down to every detail of the blocking and
everything before moving it upstairs.”
Suddenly, Bennett lost interest in the
venture overnight—“At that time, we
hadn’t even heard of the word AIDS” —
and the project quietly died. (Bennett
succumbed to AIDS in 1987.) “We’re
very much subject to international
events, personal events, everything,”
Ellis says of his business. “It’s a roller-
coaster.”

By 1985, Ellis was eager to do things
his own way, “without being slowed
down by partners,” so he formed his
own firm. John Ellis & Associates now
employs eight or nine architects working
on 10 or so projects with long gestation
periods. “Since I established my own

20

firm, we've really done a lot of things for
people with special needs,” he says. “At
a certain level, it was going back to the
kinds of people I had originally worked
with in that self-built project.”

Most of Ellis’s clients are nonprofit
providers of social services, and typical
of his work is an SRO housing project
for the homeless mentally ill located on
the Lower East Side just south of
Houston Street. “It’s not SoHo—it’s not
trendy,” Ellis says. “The residents are
people who have already gone through
some kind of care and have got their life
at least somewhat under control.” While
many of these people hold down a job,
so many of them are also chemical
abusers—perhaps two-thirds to three-
quarters of them—that there’s a name
for this group: mentally ill chemical
abusers, or MICAs.

“These are some of the most vulnera-
ble people in the entire city,” he ex-
plains, because their chemical addiction
makes it almost impossible for them to
find a home, and homelessness makes it
almost impossible to get over their
chemical addiction. “You can’t do it
without some kind of stable place.”

Working with limited resources and
limited space, Ellis and his associates

 
   
     
 
 

created an environment that allows for
certain level of independence: smal]
individual units with shared bathroom
and kitchenette as well as a commyp,

kitchen and dining room. Other features
go a little bit beyond what woul be
normally provided. “We were able tal
justify the introduction of air condition.
ing based on the fact if somebody’.
going to live in here, in New York, With

all this heat reflecting off the Streets,
these rooms would become absolute
hothouses—essentially negating the

effect of these medications, which are
isotropic.”

Functional items such as chair rails
protect the walls and reduce the cost of
maintenance, as well as being decora-
tive. “We consider the colors—fairly
pale but usually fairly warm—to be —
enormously important in this environ-
ment,” he adds. “The last thing we
want to do is have anything that has an
institutional kind of flavor. We’re cer-
tainly trying to provide a residential
character—a non-threatening, friendly,
human kind of facility.”

To further enhance the livability of
the facility, Ellis removed the fire
escapes in the front and rear, creating an
hourglass escape in the courtyard that
has become a model for other architects
to follow. And once the building was
washed, he says, “it was classic Cin-
derella.” Buried underneath decades 0
filth was a pinkish gold brick and richly
decorated facades of white terra cotta.
Not bad for century-old tenements built
for the “poorest of poor” families: “At
the time it was a casual thing to do,” he:
says. “Nobody could come close t®
doing that now.”

One of Ellis’s most satisfying projects
took him back to the self-built philoso-
phy that had worked so well in London
Once again he was working with a group
of lower-income families who were theif
own clients, supported in their venture
by a group called the Mutual Housing
Association. “It’s a concept that Wa
originated in western Europe and has
been used there for quite some time,
he says. “The residents are all require
to put up some money, and as in a CO-®F
they will be self-governing and the}
essentially own their apartment ams

 
  
  
 
 
    
  
  
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
   
  
  
   
 
  

wf

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ass it on to their children, and “creating by taking away.”) In addition, we got a report that there had been a
chey Se icen's children, and so on. the communal spaces normally found in huge fire over the weekend in our build-
— a a certain kind of person to basements suddenly opened off of a _ ing and that part of it had collapsed,” he

a te in this,” he adds, “someone bright, sunny space, allowing for win- recalls. “My heart sank—the city usually
Be abition and an entrepreneurial dows directly into the basement. will slap a demolition on the building—
ee = is willing to do something to “Tenants in three sides of this courtyard and I could only think one thing: If it
_” af a and is prepared to could look right into the windows of this could only be the portion of the building
nize that this might take some space with a feeling of security. Anyone we were planning to demolish.”
These are not your typical home- going in and out would be clearly visi- In fact, two rival gangs had waged a
less with lots of problems—they have ble.” All totaled, the new central court- war in Ellis’ building, and one of them
their lives very much under control and yard benefited 27 of the 48 apartments, torched the other, collapsing the part
they know what they want.” many of which had seen virtually no Ellis was going to demolish. “Not only

When Ellis first visited the site, cho- light and air for 75 years. that,” he says, “but it means that we
sen by the families, to check the build- By closing in light shafts across every could at least visualize what the court-
ing’s dimensions—the building was so level, he increased interior space and yard was going to look like.” He smiles.
old there were no plans on file—what he created entrance corridors into many of “It’s things like this that would make
found were five of the worst tenements the apartments. “You can stand in this some people true believers.” ®
he’d ever seen, vacant and exposed to entry foyer and can see the original
the elements. “The windows were all shape of it,” he says. The doorway was
blocked up at the lower levels, and I had Originally a
to go in through the fire escapes,” he window, and i at
recalls. Staring down an open tower six the doorways |
stories high, Ellis and his associates into each of
found they weren’t the only ones with the bedrooms
designs on the building. “It was a drug were formerly
supermarket below,” he says. “There windows—
were people criss-crossing these court- “There were
yards, using the basement or the first some happy
floor. They had their own way of getting opportunities
in and getting out.” on the site,”
At one point he stepped on a pile of Ellis notes.
rubble—“the floorboards underneath it The resi-
had completely rotted”—and Ellis fell dents began
waist deep through the floor. Of course, moving into their
the rest of the building wasn’t much new apartments in
better. Windows at the front and rear December 1992—but
provided what little light came into the not before Ellis had
micro-sized apartments—25-foot-wide one major scare along
and 90-foot-deep spaces divided into the way. “We had
four units. The five- and six-story build- completed our de-
ings were stacked back-to-back on 100- signs, but did not have
foot lots, leaving little room for sunlight. funding in place yet when
“It Was just an inhumane form of liv-
ing,” Ellis says. An overhead view of Ellis’s
What the architect did was to demol- —_p/ans for the courtyard.

ish half of one of the five tenements
in order to create a courtyard for all
five buildings. “We removed a por-
On where the two buildings were

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pointing at an angle toward each SSS
other, p| h . Be ee en
_ > Plus the rear yard of one build- = Pe. poe en ae
i a ——
= the rear yard of another He tects
ul j ” l, , le - oy gh
“ ding.” The result was a “remark- Pee age) op 8 : a
TC Oo ; ' . ) ¥ ) « ) ee . aaa . J % ~ ~ > <a
Y 8enerous courtyard facing south,” er 5 5B) a YR OA II ESS. ABS 4
a , ondertfully light-catching NU hick aii ee a
of space.” (He calls the process ee eee ger ee Sone, ee

 

 

 

  

From burial shrine to Chapel of L re
the unltkely evolution of a WSL institutio;

 
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23

on " te
4 te ae —_
POO er ee me yes =

etal Be

wae ee ete ae x

, : ‘’ ae > Sta
Had4. ~~,

ns th eee

 

mee

 

arch 21 isa

lucky day for Mark
Mitschow ’84—and not just
because that’s the day he
was accepted to Washington
and Lee. Nine years later, on
that same date, he drove his
girlfriend, Gabrielle, to
Lexington all the way from
College Park, Md., and
showed her the campus, and
the Colonnade, and all the
places you might show any
first-time visitor. Then he
took Gaby into Lee Chapel,
sitting down in the seat
where General Lee once
sat—front row, left pew, left
side—and as a baroque quar-
tet rehearsed a Bach sonata
for a performance in the
chapel that evening, he
popped the question. “I
asked her to marry me,” he
recalls over reunion week-
end at another local institu-
tion, Zollmans Pavillion.
“When she said yes, the peo-
ple watching the rehearsal
applauded.”

For many years now, Lee
Chapel has been one of the
most popular tourist sites in
Lexington, drawing some
55,000 visitors annually. But
in recent years, an increasing
number of those venturing
inside the 19th-century bur-
ial site for General Lee and
his descendants leave with
more than just a handful of
postcards. They’re taking
their vows in the presence of
the recumbent statue of
Robert E. Lee.

In 1976, when retired U.S.
Navy Captain Robert C.

24

 

 

Mark Mitschow '84 popped the question where Lee sat. And if Gaby
had said no? “I'd have bought her a bus ticket back to Maryland.”

Peniston came to Washing-
ton and Lee to be the first,
and so far only, full-time
director of Lee Chapel, there
were all of 12 ceremonies.
Last year, that number had
climbed to 29, and in the
first five months of 1994, he
has 20 weddings on the
books, with one or more cer-
emonies scheduled in the
128-year-old chapel for just
about every weekend of the
peak summer months.

Who takes their vows at
Lee Chapel? Daughters and
sons of Washington and Lee
presidents, for starters: In
1988, Anthony Wilson, son of
President and Mrs. John
Wilson, married Melinda
Phillips, and the Wilsons’

daughter, Sara, is getting
married in Lee Chapel in
September. Martha and
Katie Huntley, daughters of
former W&L president
Robert E.R. Huntley °50,
57L, said their vows in Lee
Chapel in 1982 and 1985,
respectively—the only can-
dlelight services ever permit-
ted in the chapel, and a tes-
tament to the persistence of
the mother of the brides. “I
fought to get the candles,”
Evelyn Huntley recalls with
a chuckle. “Having lived on
campus and worked the desk
in Lee Chapel during their
high school years, the girls
never considered getting
married anywhere else.”

And of course, thanks to

    
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   

coeducation, the chape}
become a hot spot for tho
couples exchanging doubl
W&L nuptials, such as 196
grads Elizabeth Dale Wyat
and Peter Klingelhofer, w}
said their vows in June. “We
met at W&L and got
engaged at Fancy Dress”
says Pete, son of Carroj
Klingelhofer ’65, ’68L, “so ;
seems natural to get marriec
at W&L, too.” As Derie
Cooper °94, who marrie¢
Beckwith Archer 90, 93, jp
the chapel two days after hi
June 2 graduation, says, get
ting married in Lee Chape
“culminates the whole W&L
experience.”

The Cooper/Archer wee
ding may well be the pz
digm of the total Washingtor
and Lee experience. Fror
the fathers of the bride anc
groom (Raleigh R. Archer 6
and Frederick E. Coopet
64, respectively) to the
groomsmen (10 in all, includ
ing Beckwith’s brother,
Patrick, a 1993 grad) ane
bridesmaids, put them al
together, and it’s practice
an alumni chapter gather
ing—only the name tags af
missing. Professor of Engli
emeritus Sidney M.B. Coul
ling ’46 even spoke befor
the ceremony about
University, and he was fol:
lowed by an alumni chor
singing “Shenandoah” unes
the direction of Alex Hit
91. Says blushing brie
Beckwith: “Lee Chapel fee
more sacred than any chute
I’ve ever walked into.”

 

trange as it may
seem now, there was a time
when getting married in Lee
Chapel would have been the
furthest thing from consider-
ation. “When Lee died, his
bier was on display in the
chapel,” explains Mary
Coulling, author of The Lee
Girls. “After his death, every-
one remembered his funeral
and would not have consid-
ered getting married there.
The prevailing feeling then
was that the chapel was a
memorial to Lee.”

Times have
since—somebody even sug-
gested putting a corsage on
the recumbent Lee’s lapel a
few years which
Peniston rejected—and for
the last several decades
(sadly, there are no records
of chapel activity dating back
before the 1970s), weddings
in Lee Chapel were not

changed

back,

unusual at all, unless you
consider the parties in-
volved. Emily Pearse, who
worked in Lee Chapel for
many years after the death of
her husband, Frederic M.P.
Pearse 28, °31L, and is now
a hostess emeritus, remem-
bers one “not-so-young”
Couple from Bath County
Who came to Lexington to
be married in Lee Chapel:
“The bride showed up ina
bright red velvet dress and a
full-length white mink coat.”
Pearse, 92, grew up on
ah While her father,
aul Penick, was treasurer of

: ae
he University. She is well

‘remembered for playing the

 —_—

 

A tight ship: Retired Navy Captain Robert Pentston’s daughter, Lisa,

married Patrick Sieg ’76 in Lee Chapel in November 1981.

piano and the organ and has
been praised as one of the
few people who could play
that finicky organ in Lee
Chapel. “That organ lends
itself to very little modern

9

music,” she says. Sometimes
couples requested unusual,
sometimes inappropriate,
music for their wedding, but
more often than not the
vows were in keeping with
the dignity befitting the so-
called “Shrine of the South.”
Once, Pearse recalls, a cadet
from VMI wanted to show
his admiration for General
Lee by saying his vows in
front of him. “The groom
and all the groomsmen wore
their VMI dress uniforms
and the uniforms fit that old

building perfectly,” she says.
“It was the most handsome
wedding I ever saw there.”
The nondenominational
chapel is frequently chosen
as a wedding site to compro-
mise church differences; as
neutral territory, it often
plays host to mixed-religion
weddings and occasionally
mixed marriages of a differ-
ent sort: between cadets and
coeds. “It’s the most beauti-
ful chapel,” explains Pam
Kelly ’92, a journalism grad-
uate living in Roanoke who
plans to wed 1994 VMI grad-
uate and regimental com-
mander Jon Lauder in
August. “You feel the pres-
ence of Robert E. Lee,” she
adds, “and it embodies the

spirit of Washington and Lee
and the same ideals and val-
ues that are upheld at VMI.”
In the last 30 years, Louis
Hodges, Fletcher Otey
Thomas Professor of Bible at
W&L, has performed 52
weddings, 39 of them in Lee
Chapel, and he tries to
accommodate requests from
the bride and groom, no mat-
ter how offbeat. For in-
stance, John Bass, an ardent
Civil War enthusiast, met
bride-to-be Lisa Rogers ’91L
on a Civil War tour, and the
groom subsequently engaged
the curator of the Stonewall
Jackson Museum in Win-
chester, Va., to personally
bring Jackson’s own 1848
Episcopal leather-bound
prayer book for the Lee
Chapel nuptials. But the
curator “wouldn’t let me
touch the pages of the old
book,” Hodges says. “I had
to wear thin white cotton
gloves—which she _ had
brought with her—during
the entire service.”
Washington and Lee’s
wedding policy, which is not
quite set in stone, stipulates
that the chapel is open to
anyone with
W&L, but requests are hon-
ored from those at VMI and
area women’s colleges and

associated

exceptions are made,
Peniston adds, “if they can
make a good case.” Recent
examples include a Lexing-
ton police officer and a cou-
upon passing
through the town, settled on

ple who,
the site and were coming

25

back to be married in June—
there is no set fee to get mar-
ried in Lee Chapel, but con-
tributions to the University
are tactfully encouraged.

With a capacity of 620,
Lee Chapel is large enough
to accommodate large wed-
dings, although the lack of
certain amenities, such as a
proper dressing room, has
resulted in some frenzied
petticoat action; Frank
Parsons °54, head of capital
planning at W&L, recalls a
Saturday in Washington Hall
when he ran into a slew of
bridesmaids in various stages
of undress who thought they
had the administrative build-
ing to themselves.

Other questions to be
answered include the statue
chamber—whether to leave
the grill gates open, or close
the chamber completely?
(Some have opted to say
their vows in the statue
chamber itself, with the
groom in confederate uni-
form and bride in Civil War-
era dress.) The double aisles
of Lee Chapel have not been
a deterrent to brides who
have dreamed of walking
down a center aisle. The
bride typically goes up the
left aisle, then up the steps
for the ceremony, and back
down on the right side. Jokes
chapel director Peniston:
“She goes up a liberal and
comes down a conservative.”

In the 18 years since Peni-
ston came to W&L after a
distinguished 30-year naval
career that included stints as

26

a4

2 a
“ s RS eee ake

(

*

—
aoe
a

—

eat .
we .

Fe
YF
a
ae

 

 

For newlyweds Beckwith Archer ’90, ’93L and Derick Cooper ’94,

commanding officer of the
USS Savage, New Jersey,
Tattnall, and Albany, Lee
Chapel has run like the
clockwork that adorns its
steeple. From tour groups
and schoolchildren to cere-
monies and_= speakers,
Peniston is the captain of his
ship—and although he says
he only schedules the place,
he recently gave some
fatherly advice to a bride-to-
be. “Young lady,” he said
sagely, “don’t let this hap-
pen again.”

For all the shoes-and-rice
activity, Lee Chapel has a
long way to go before it rivals
the chapels at the U.S. Naval
Academy or Duke Univer-
sity. At the Naval Academy,

getting hitched in Lee Chapel “culminates the whole WEL experience.”

during the three to four days
following graduation and
commissioning ceremonies,
they “run them in and out
about every 15 minutes,” as
many as 10 weddings a day,
according to a spokesperson.
At Duke Chapel, which sees
an average of 125 weddings a
year, full-time wedding
director Taylor Shaw is
working hard to dispel the
myth that if you want to get
married there, you sign up
your freshman year. Accord-
ing to Shaw, they only accept
wedding reservations one
year in advance. Even so, on
busy days weddings are
scheduled up to every two
hours for as many as four
weddings in a single day.

  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
    
 
 
 
  
   
 
  

As often happens in y
dings, no matter how }
lowed the location, thj
can sometimes go awry
Lee Chapel. Peniston ree
one time when the power
the campus was cut off
four hours one summer to
major line work just befor
wedding was to commen
It was a daytime cereme
so lights were not a probl
but the air conditioning a
the organ wouldn’t run
the piano had to suffice.

University photograp
Patrick Hinely ’73, who k
self got married in L
Chapel in 1983, will ne
forget another wedd
day—only this time he
behind the camera. T
bride had gotten through
“T will” leading up to the
dos,” but the groom got ¢
as far as “I...” before keel
over and collapsing. A res
unit was called in,
Hinely, who watched all
from his stationary weddi
post, by the fire extinguis
under the steps on
Washington aisle, stepf
outside to smoke a cigare
as a crew wearing blue n
windbreakers and baseD
caps came in, removed
groom’s tuxedo coat, fo
up the sleeve of his fort
shirt, and took his ble¢
pressure. The service P
ceeded from there—with
bride, and the groom,
the attendants, and the ®
cue unit—and the couf
we’re happy to say, has li
happily ever after.

t %,
“to
' equ
: Fé
1.
wa /
eG
wEex
no
a
: ie.
tag
‘A
ry
=
Ai ,
a)
«Ame
Ve
ee
» +
ez
mM *
a
aa
re
x9
‘wa
‘a
cos
ca
a
na
‘ae
i Fe
ay’
. ~ ¢
Ps
ae
iPy ¥
? .
ba by
Sy al
5 7 Al
i ht
ae ee
cogs
‘ae
a
a
8
=e
ie

‘aa

 

BY DICK ANDERSON Back in March, when 7/e Ring-tum Phi published the news of William J. Watt’s
retirement after a 39-year career as professor of chemistry, including 13 years as dean of the col-
lege, W&L junior ‘IR. Kinsey summed up Watt’s command of a broad spectrum of interests with
ata) analogy we can all relate to.“I think if we lined up all the professors at W&L and had them go
on D carte hae Dr. Watt would win,” he suggested. “He has the widest range of knowledge.”

While Watt and his wife, Helen, watch Alex ‘Irebek nightly, even “religiously,” as he laugh-
ingly puts it, “each of us has certain gaps,” he confesses. “I can’t answer any of the questions

aa

 

aaa

ee a@iiely

 

on who its the rock-and-roll singer who
sang such-and-such—I don’t know any
of that. That’s the great lacuna in my
knowledge.”

When Watt came to Washington and
Lee from Davidson in 1955, he brought
an impressive wealth of knowledge with
him, having earned his B.S. degree from
the University of Illinois in 1949 and his
master’s from Cornell University in 1951
(he completed his Ph.D from Cornell in
1956). He heard about W&L from his
friend and Cornell classmate Keith
Shillington, who joined the faculty in
1953 as an assistant professor of chem-
istry and with whom Watt exchanged
Christmas cards each year. “I told him
in my Christmas card that I was looking
for a job,” Watt recalls, “and he wrote
back to say that Washington and Lee
had a position in my field. So I applied
and came and interviewed and accepted
the job.”

Within his first year in Lexington,
Watt met his bride-to-be, Sweet Briar
graduate Helen Gravatt, and the two
were married in September 1956. “I had
several offers to leave, but we always
decided to stay,” he recalls, “and I sup-
pose it was because we liked the
University and the faculty and the stu-
dents—we liked the atmosphere.”

In 1966, Watt, then a full professor of
chemistry, was named assistant to the
dean of the college, where he worked
closely with dean William W. Pusey III
in general administrative procedures. “I
wanted to be on the administrative
side,” he says, and while he helped with
various administrative projects as they
came along, Watt credits his daughter,
Phyllis (now a reporter for the Los
Angeles Times in Ventura, Calif.), with
getting him into the business. “When
the libraries began to get Russian jour-
nals, I decided I needed to know some-

RUSSIAN

SLUTS

 

thing about Russian,” Watt recalls, “and
so I took a course with the Russian
teacher, who was Dr. Pusey.” Phyllis
had colic at the time, and while Watt
helped his wife rock the cradle at night,
he studied his Russian, “so I did reason-
ably well in Russian,” he says. Later,
when Pusey became dean, and then-
president Fred Cole decided they need-
ed additional help in the dean’s office,
particularly someone with some experi-
ence in the sciences, “Dr. Pusey asked
me,” he reasons, “because I guess I was
the scientist he knew best, having been
in his course for a year. So then I
became the assistant dean, and then the
associate dean, and eventually dean.”
Watt served as dean of the college
from 1971 until stepping down in 1984.
And while he demurs to specify what he
liked most about being dean (“I can’t
stand desert-island questions”), he says:
“I liked working with the president—I
had two great presidents to work with,
Bob Huntley and John Wilson—and I
liked working with the faculty as well.

 

| LIKED TRYING TO MAKE THINGS GO
WELL—SMOOTHLY—AND HELPING
PEOPLE WORK OUT THE IDEAS THEY HAD
ABOUT IMPROVING THE CURRICULUM
AND TEACHING AT THE UNIVERSITY.

 

 

 

And I didn’t mind writing grants; I
wrote several proposals that were suc-
cessful. I liked trying to get money to
help the faculty do what it needed to do.
I liked all those things.” As he assumed
more administrative duties, Watt main-
tained a partial academic load, teaching
a lab until he became associate dean and
team-teaching a freshman course so that

GN TBS

LIFE

    
 
  
   
    
   
 
   
  
    
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
  

he only had to be there for certain j-
tures, a practice that continued ¢h,
entire time he was dean. 7
As associate dean, one of Warr’.
duties was to chair the executive egm
mittee of the faculty, which handled
requests for people to go on leaye ¢
reduce their load, and in the aftermar
of the Kent State murders in 1970, th
W&L campus was the strike center f
the Southern part of the United States
“The president and the faculty never
allowed the school to be closed,” War
recalls, “but they did say at first that ar
student who wanted to drop out for tha
term could take I’s [Incompletes] i
their courses and finish out the term.”
When the faculty subsequently decide
that a student could drop a course or twe
“so they could spend some, but not
their time, working to achieve justice,’
the executive committee was hailec
with petitions—40 students who decic
ed to drop out altogether, and anothe
625 who dropped one or more course
“At the end of that year, my secreté
resigned,” Watt adds with a laugh.
Another great crisis occurred later
that same month, when 325 people
signed a petition saying that they didn't
want to wear robes at graduation. ~ Ihe
executive committee met and we decid-
ed, well, if they didn’t want to wear
robes, well that was all right.” So the
University contacted the company that
rented the robes, which cancelled the
orders with one caveat: that a studer
decide in advance whether we W#
wearing a robe or not, having expel
enced last-minute flip-flops already 3%
commencement ceremonies at Virgin!
Tech and the University of Virginia.
the end, “although 325 students hae
signed up to not wear robes, only
actually did not,” Watt recalls. “One ®
them was Helen’s cousin.” 7

- PRESIDENTIAL

71 CG SS

When Watt had been dean for 10
years, he thought he’d oe served
as long as he should have. “It’s just like
everything else,” he says, “after you’ve
done it for a while, you begin to think
about doing other things.” But he went
to President Huntley to tell him as
much, Watt found he wasn’t the only
one with retirement plans he says, “and
[| had to wait until [Huntley] resigned
first.” Watt stayed on for a year and a
half after Wilson’s arrival, and by then
he was eager to go back to teaching.

Thirteen years “is a long time for a
person to be dean,” he explains. “Bob
Huntley said about the presidency that
he didn’t mind doing the same thing
twice, but when it came around the
third time, then it was time to find
somebody else to do the job. And in a
sense, I had that sort of feeling.

“I think you use up your credibility
with people,” he adds. “You have to
make ‘bad’ decisions, which many peo-
ple don’t like, for the good of the insti-
tution. And after you’ve made so many
of those, you’ve worn out your wel-
come.” He wryly adds: “People are much
nicer since I’ve stopped being dean.”

For the second time in 12 years, Watt
finds himself chairman of the presiden-
tial advisory search committee. His task
'S to provide the trustee selection com-
mittee with the names of 10 candidates
by Nov. 1, with a selection to be made
by next February’s board meeting.
Narrowing the list of roughly 125 indi-
viduals (“some people have been nomi-
nated twice or 15 times”) doesn’t faze
him. “I suppose the more times you do
It, the Casier it gets,” he says. The
chemistry department has hired two
_ the last two years, he notes—
Ute INg associate professor Erich S.

man, Watt’s designated successor.
€ leaves an aging science facility

SCIENCE
FACILITIES

 

with needs similar to the one he first
encountered. When Parmly Hall was
built in the early 1960s, a wing was
added as part of the renovation of 40-
year-old Howe Hall. It was not without
its sacrifices, as Watt vividly remembers:
“They did a lot of remodeling and we
kept teaching right on through it.

 

| ALWAYS TELL THE STORY ABOUT BEING
IN MY OFFICE IN THE COLD WINTER WITH
A PIECE OF CELLOPHANE BETWEEN ME
AND THE WEST WIND. IT WAS A VERY
COLD WINTER.

 

 

 

But when we finished the new building,
we had a lot more space than before.”
That space has long since been out-
grown. Watt’s third-floor office in Howe
Hall was a quiz room before it was
divided into two faculty offices to
accommodate a growing faculty. “When
I first came, there were just four faculty
members and now we have six, but
we've had as many as seven,” he says.
Watt carried a 23-hour load in those
early years as well: “I taught 23 contact
hours a week, and I had very large class-
es.” Where his quiz sections once held
about 30 students, for instance, they are
half that size today. The preparation
that students get in high school has var-
ied over his 39 years at W&L. “It was
not very good when I arrived in °55,
improved significantly during the *60s,
and started declining again during the
*70s,” he says. “I don’t think there’s
enough emphasis given to science
teaching in the schools. (The W&L cur-
riculum requires 10 hours of science and
math, including at least one lab science.)
Watt’s talents will be missed not only

mut

in the classroom but in his extracurricu-
lar activities on campus. Under his lead-
ership, faculty and staff have con-
tributed $561,000 to the Campaign for
Washington and Lee—with seven out of
10 employees making gifts.

Prior to their visits to campus, Watt
read the entire bibliographies of authors
Clyde Edgerton and Robertson Davies
to prepare his introductions. In anticipa-
tion of a trip to the British Isles with the
Alumni College Abroad in August, he
and Helen are reading ‘Thomas Hardy,
“which I had never read before,” but for
pleasure he reads mostly mysteries.

Just how many books has he read? “I
have no idea,” he laughs. “When I was
in second grade, I read all the books in
the second grade library. When I was in
the Army [Watt served in Europe, the
Philippines, and Korea during World
War II], we’d get 30 books a month, and
I got through a great number of them.
I’ve always said that’s where I got my
general education—I didn’t have any-
thing else to do but read.”

In the 39 years that have passed since
Watt attended his first assembly at
W&L, his knowledge—or “data,” as his
chemistry colleagues lovingly put it in a
proclamation adopted by the faculty
June 1—continues to astound those who
cross his neatly disorganized desk. As
one colleague remarked, “My desk
looks like Bill’s, but he can reach in and
pull out what he wants. I reach in and
get a two-week-old tuna-fish sandwich.”

More amazing is the story of an alum-
nus who, after reminiscing with Watt,
was heard to utter dazedly, “He told me
who my date was for Fancy Dress my
freshman year—and I don’t remember
going to Fancy Dress my freshman year,
much less who my date was.”

Bill Watt not only has the answers—
he has the questions as well. @

Tucking his floppy fisherman’s hat in
the back pocket of his khakis, Randall
P. Bezanson set his beer aside and
crouched behind home plate, resting his
hands on his knees. Grimacing at the
mud-splattered base, raising one hand
skyward, and glancing at the spectators
who lined the wall next to the Lewis
Hall field, he commanded, “Play ball!”
Thus began the final game of Bezan-
son’s final law event as umpire: the 1994
Dean’s Cup Softball Tournament.

Bezanson and his first-base umpire,
professor of law Joan Shaughnessy, were
the only administrative faces on the dia-
mond this year. As conceived by profes-
sor Joe Ulrich in 1978, the idea was to
pit faculty against students in a four-
team, single-elimination event. Over the
years, the Dean’s Cup evolved into a
mostly student affair, with scattered fac-
ulty members playing on student teams
and a faculty team playing the winner of
the student draw. But not this year.

“There aren’t any professors involved
this year,” explains Jay Oakey ’95L, law
school sports Czar and tournament orga-
nizer. (As Czar—a hand-picked position
decided by previous Czars—his duties
also entail organizing football, basket-

30

No Robes, No Briefs, No Professors

Students Vie for the Dean’s Cup in a League of Their Own

ball, and rugby leagues as well as writing
a column for the W@L Law News.) In
this more relaxed format, the winner of
the loser’s bracket takes on the winner
of the winner’s bracket for the title.
“Teams just schedule games when they
can play them,” says Oakey, who is pret-
ty laid-back himself. “It’s more fun to
play on a team that doesn’t plan to win.”

While student organizations, such as
the Law Review, have been known to
perform respectably, the teams that
tend to go the distance are those made
up of guys that hang out together. While
some team captains (“big egos,” Oakey
says) go so far as to recruit first-years for
the fall softball tournament), more con-
fusing is the fact that each of the 100
students registered for the tourney was
permitted to play on three of the 21
teams. And if two of your teams should
happen to play one another, “Usually
you go with the team you were on first,”
he says. “Lots of times you'll see a mass
exodus from one team to the other—
that gets to be a problem.”

The team names can make for inter-
esting box scores. This year’s entrants
included the Self-Proclaimed Stronger
and More Experienced Chadjur; the

 

nals,

Aptly Named Chapuran’s Chumps, and
our favorite, the Questionably Named
Carpetbaggers and Felte (Tennessean
teammate James Felte ’95L wanted no
connection with anything northern).

In the end, the Chumps dominated
Chadjur 20-0 to take the cup and the
bragging rights that come with such a
decisive victory. “There are certain peo-
ple in the Law School who definitely
want those,” Oakey notes wryly.

For the other players, “All that really
matters is that I’m going to walk away
from this with a tan, a free burger, and a
T-shirt,” a weary Chadjur pitcher sighed
in the fourth inning, when the score was
only 13-0. “Somebody get me a live
chicken and I’ll end this right now, one
of her frustrated teammates called out.

Munching Student Bar Association
sponsored food and flipping through
their law books between trips to the
keg, the spectators seemed unconcerned
with the lack of seriousness or absence
of faculty. “It’s fun to watch your

friends get all athletic,” said one fare
who had spent his weekend watching
games. “But I’m not telling you ™Y

name because I’m supposed t0 be
studying.” —By Nikki Magaziner °94

-

7

7

   

admissions Applicants Up

Defying national averages where

mbers are down by an average of 10
| r cent, applications to the School of
a have risen by 16 percent, to a pro-
‘ected 1.800, for the 1994-95 academic
as The estimated size of the first-year
law class is 120. Applicants represented
450 undergraduate schools and hail from
all 50 states, the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and 11

 

foreign countries.

ix New Directors _—
Doned to Law Council

Six new directors were elected to the
W&L Law Council at its May meeting.

James M. Costan ’74L has been a part-
ner with the Washington (D.C.) firm
LeBoeuf, Lamb,
Leiby & MacRae
since 1990. The
Asheville (N.C.)
native earned his
B.A. from the
University of Vir-

 

ginia. Costan is a

 

 

member of the
District of Colum-
bia and Virginia bars and the American

 

Bar Association.

The Hon. William B. Hill Jr. ’74, ’77L
has been a Superior Court judge in
Fulton County,
Ga., since 1992.
He was appointed
to a state judge-
ship in 1990. A
member of Phi
Alpha Delta, Hill
has been active
with the Black
Alumni Founda-
tion and admissions programs at W&L.

Labor R. Novak Jr. ’66, ’69L is a part-
ner with Ball,
Ball, Matthews &
Novak in Mont-
gomery, Ala. He
is a member of

 

the Montgomery
County Bar, the
ABA, the Ala-
bama State Bar,

 

 

 

 

and the Alabama Defense Lawyers
Association. Novak was a Phi Kappa
Sigma at W&L.

Laurie A. Rachford ’84L is counsel
with Exxon Co. USA in Houston. She
graduated from
the University of
Texas and works
in commercial law
for Exxon, which
she joined in
1990. Rachford re-
cently made a gift
to support the
general law schol-
arship endowment at W&L.

Wilson F. (Wick) F. Vellines Jr. ’68,
‘73L is a partner and senior litigation
attorney ~~ with
Vellines Cobbs
Goodwin & Glass
in Staunton, Va. A
Phi Kappa Sigma,
he served on the
Class of ’68’s
25th-reunion
committee last
year
member of the Alumni Fraternity

 

 

 

and as a

Council. Vellines has also been active as
a member of the Staunton committee of
the Campaign for Washington and Lee.

Elizabeth Devine Wiseman ’81L lives in
Nashville and worked as a vice presi-
dent and assistant
secretary for First
American Corp.
before leaving to
start a family with
husband Thomas
A. Wiseman ’79.
She earned a B.A.
from the Univer-
sity of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1978 and was
editor of the Law Review at W&L. She is
a volunteer with the Alumni Career
Assistance Program.

Lacy in Residence

The Hon. Elizabeth B. Lacy, the first
woman named to the Virginia Supreme
Court, visited the School of Law as
judge-in-residence for a week in April.
During her residency at W&L, Justice

 

 

 

The Hon. Elizabeth B. Lacy talks law as a
visiting professor in April.

Lacy met with students in Jurispru-
dence, The Lawyer’s Role, Criminal
Procedure, Evidence, and other classes.
Lacy’s visit to Washington and Lee
was sponsored by the Frances Lewis
Law Center, the research arm of the law
school. ‘The center’s Judge-in-Residence
Program annually brings to the campus a
prominent jurist to interact with faculty
and students. Lacy was appointed to the
Virginia Supreme Court in January 1989
and was the commencement speaker for
W&L’s law graduation last spring.

Are You Satisfied?

The Washington and Lee School of
Law ranked first in the nation for overall
student satisfaction in a recent study by
The National Jurist magazine and The
Princeton Review.

Using a survey of 18,000 law students
nationwide conducted by The Princeton
Review, The National Jurist—a magazine
for future lawyers—ranked 165 law
schools based on overall student satisfac-
tion as defined by the students’ respons-
es to questions about satisfaction with
faculty, facilities, and quality of life at
their respective schools. W&L ranked in
the top five for each of the three cate-
gories—the only law school to do so.

31

The

Generals
Report

By BRIAN LOGUE
AND JAY PLOTKIN ’92

Springtime usually provides a large
portion of the athletic highlights at
Washington and Lee, but this year was
even better than usual. In a span of just
four days W&L claimed four Old
Dominion Athletic Conference champi-
onships, placed second in another
ODAC championship and captured an
“unofficial” league title in women’s
track. All of the championships were
special, but none was as touching as the
golf team unexpectedly blowing away
the field to hand veteran coach Buck
Leslie his seventh ODAC champi-
onship. ‘The women’s tennis team took
it one step further and made a run for
the school’s first national championship
since the men’s team won in 1988.
Here’s a look back at a special season.

Baseball

Offense was W&L’s strong suit this
spring, one that saw several long-stand-
ing school records fall in a 7-18-1 season.
Junior Bates Brown set new highs for
hits (36) and doubles in a season (12)
while batting .387, and sophomore Graig
Fantuzzi shattered another school
record with a .482 batting average.

‘That Fantuzzi would set a record at
W&L was not out of head coach Jeff
Stickley’s realm of thinking. Only
Stickley thought Fantuzzi would do it
from the mound. Arm trouble held
Fantuzzi to just 19 innings on the
mound this season, but he made his
presence felt at the plate. Inserted into
the line-up midway through the season,

32

Fantuzzi dominated opposing pitchers
to earn first team All-ODAC honors as
an outfielder.

Sophomore Matt Ermigiotti was
W&L’s top pitcher, winning a team-
high three games. He also led the team
with four triples and three home runs
and tied for the team lead with 19 RBI
while hitting .316 on the season. Junior
Duane Van Arsdale overcame early-sea-
son shoulder trouble to tie Ermigiotti
for the RBI lead and hit .310, his third
season hitting better than .300.

Golf

Bad breaks marked the beginning of
W&L’s season, but those were all dis-
tant memories when W&L cruised to an
upset victory to earn a record seventh
ODAC Championship at ‘The Crossings
in Richmond. W&L put together two of
its best rounds all season, firing back-to-
back 310 four-man scores and beating
runner-up Randolph-Macon by eight
shots. Senior co-captain Pearce Smith-
wick, coming off a rotator cuff injury
that sidelined him for a month, came
back to shoot 75-76 to place second at
the tourney and earn AIl-ODAC tourna-
ment honors. He was joined by ever-
steady senior Bo Williams, who placed
seventh after shooting 81-75.

Williams was W&L’s top golfer
through the season with a 78.8 stroke
average and earned All-ODAC honors.
Freshman ‘Tommy Dudley broke into
the lineup at mid-season and finished
with a 80.3 stroke average.

NMien’s Lacrosse

An early season loss to Hampden-
Sydney appeared to have ended W&L’s
hopes for a second straight ODAC
championship, but W&L was not going
to surrender its title without a fight.
Stull, you would have found few believ-
ers when W&L trailed archrival
Roanoke 11-6 with just six minutes to
play in their late March encounter. But
W&L began scoring one goal after
another and sophomore Ande Jenkins
scored off a feed from junior Ty
‘Tydings with one minute left to play
and the Generals had rallied to tie the

 
 
   
 
   
  
    
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  

game 11-11. Freshman goalie p,
Gubner made his 18th save ang tk
biggest of his young career carly in ¢
overtime and this time Tydings a,
Jenkins traded roles as Tydings ,
home the game winner from Jenkins
stun Roanoke 12-11.

W&L carried the momentum fre
that comeback to a 9-5 season ang
final ranking of 11th in the Usyyp
Division III poll. Only a heartbreak;
11-10 overtime loss to Washingtg
College in late April kept W&L fro,
going to the national playoffs for ¢h
third time in the last four years. W&
rebounded from that loss to close ¢h
season with a 12-10 victory over VM]
the Lee-Jackson Classic.

Senior midfielder Colin Higgins w,
W&L’s top scorer with 24 goals and 2
assists to earn first-team All-ODAC ho;
ors. He was joined on the first team
junior defenseman Shaun McKenz
and Jenkins earned second-team hone
Head coach Jim Stagnitta was name
Coach of the Year. W&L’s school recor
of eight goals in a game was challenge
twice during the season. Jenkins score
seven goals in an early season win ove
Swarthmore and junior Scott Macklh
had seven in an 18-8 victory ov
Randolph-Macon that clinched tl
ODAC Championship. 4

Women’s Lacrosse

When you play one of the toughe
schedules in the nation, no matter he
good you are, you could use some |
That was the story of the women
lacrosse team. The Generals played
games against teams ranked in ft!
Division III top 15, and with any lu
all, W&L may have been in a position
play for its third straight ODAC title. 4
it turned out, W&L had to settle for 4
8-7 season with six of the losses comin
to nationally ranked teams, three)
them by just one goal.

W&L’s best players throughout ©
season were senior Angie Carringt
and junior Carrie Niederer. Both Wé
first team All-Region and first team ©
ODAC picks, Carrington for the
straight year. Carrington was the teat
top goal scorer with 41 and finish’

¢
,
’

S884,
Jie
’ Baa ’
Pe Tree
Pong (8 aganeee eee
fae okt

s s"
. 4°
~

 

Freshman Doug Gubner makes a save against Gettysburg under the lights in Lexington.

third on the all-time list for goals (110),
assists (30) and points (110). She capped
her career by being named a first team
All-American this season after earning
third-team honors last year. Niederer
has been one of W&L’s top defensive
players in each of her first three seasons
starting every game of her career.

Junior Lindsay Coleman was the
team’s leading scorer this year with 35
goals and 11 assists and has 99 career
points. Coleman and classmate Nicole
Ripken (see page 8) were both named to
the second team AIl-ODAC along with
junior defensive wing Dana Cornell.

Men’s Tennis

W&L’s only ODAC loss came early
when Hampden-Sydney upset the
Generals 5-4—W&L’s first conference
loss in 31 matches. The Generals
avenged their loss, however, winning six
of nine flights for their tenth straight
ODAC crown. Chris MacNaughton,
David Schweppe, Andy Horen and
freshman Derek Schulze all won singles
titles, and Robby MacNaughton and
Peter Hammond and Chris MacNaugh-
fon and Schulze teamed to win at first
and third doubles, respectively.

q mee vecklong trip to California prior
ey ACs, Robby MacNaughton
~f on the trip, with wins over

three players ranked in the top 30 (he
was ranked 38th at the time), while
brother Chris beat the No. 33 player in
the nation as W&L upended fifth-
ranked Pomona-Pitzer 5-4.

Robby MacNaughton closed his
career by earning All-America honors at
the NCAA Division III Championships.
MacNaughton reached the round of 16
in the singles tournament, winning
three-set matches in his first two rounds
before falling to 18th-ranked Tran
Nguyen of Claremont in the third
round. Schulze had the team’s second-
best record, going 13-8 at No. 6 singles.

Women’s Tennis

The traditional ODAC power broke
through on the national level this year in
a big way, going through the regular sea-
son unbeaten at 21-0 while capturing its
fourth straight ODAC title and earning
the second seed at the NCAA Champi-
onships in Kalamazoo, Mich. The
Generals were upset in the quarterfinals
by eventual finalist Williams, and fin-
ished the season 22-2 after a sixth-place
finish at the tournament.

In fall action, W&L beat then-third
ranked Mary Washington for the first
time ever, 6-3. Playing in its first Rolex
Regional tournament, W&L swept both
the singles and doubles titles. Junior

Marilyn Baker won the singles and
teamed with sophomore Julie Ayers to
win the doubles. At the Rolex National
Championships, Baker finished third in
the singles and Ayers and Baker fin-
ished second in the doubles.

In the spring, W&L ran off 18
straight wins. Included in the run were
wins over defending NCAA champion
Kenyon, regional powers Emory and
Sewanee, and three ranked opponents.
W&L won eight of nine flights at the
ODAC Championships, including all six
singles flights. In order, W&L’s champi-
ons were: Marilyn Baker (ODAC Player
of the Year for the second consecutive
year), Julie Ayers, Shelley Sunderman,
Helen Chandler, Anna O’Connor, and
Cathy Gartin.

At the NCAAs, Baker was honored as
the Zennis Magazine/ I'TA Arthur Ashe
Sportsmanship Award winner. Although
she was upset in the second round of
singles play, Baker was named an AIl-
American for the second straight year.
Ayers also played in the singles champi-
onships, marking the first time that two
Generals had played in the event.

Baker set a school record for singles
wins in a season with 28. She went 28-3
on the season and, at 69-12 career, is
only five wins shy of Kelly Martone’s
record. Ayers finished the season 23-4
while O’Connor capped an outstanding
freshman season at 23-3, winning her
last 20 matches.

NMen’s Track

W&L made its best run in recent
years for the ODAC Championship, but
came up just short with a second-place
finish, 36 points behind perennial power
Lynchburg. Sophomore Dax Mahoney
earned Athlete of the Meet honors for
the second straight year and led W&L’s
dominance of the sprinting events.
W&L won the 100, 200, 400, and 800
meter runs and also won the 400 and
1,600 meter relays. Mahoney won the
200 and 400 dashes and placed second
in the 100. Juniors Hayne Hodges and
Grant Cowell won the 100 and 800,
respectively. Senior Scott Covey won
the 400 hurdles and placed second in
the 110s by just 3/100ths of a second.

33

 

In the field events, sophomore Harris

Morrison captured the pole vault title.
W&L’s Norris Aldridge was named
ODAC Coach of the Year.

Women’s Track

‘The Generals won the league’s unof-
ficial title for the last time—the ODAC
will begin sponsoring women’s track
next year—and its first outdoor track
title since 1991 in convincing fashion,
with the deepest team in school history.

Even with injured All-American
Josephine Schaeffer sidelined, it was a
record-breaking year for the program.
Sophomore Sandra Holmes made a
weekly habit out of breaking her own
marks in the shot put and discus and
led all W&L scorers at the ODAC
championship with a victory in the
javelin and second-place finishes in the
shot put and discus. Freshman Hollis
Leddy set new marks in the 200 and
400 meter dash was named team MVP.

‘The ODAC meet was highlighted by
Holmes’ performance as well as a pair
of runs from Amy Mears in the 1,500
and 3,000. W&L also got wins from
Leddy in the 400, Sarah Gilbert in the
high jump and the 400 and 1,600 meter
relay teams. The ever-versatile Gilbert
placed in five events at the meet.

34

pring Sports Scoreboard

W&L 13, Savannah 2

W&L 5, Savannah 2
Embry-Riddle 5, W&L 1
Embry-Riddle 10, W&L 2
W&L 2, Shenandoah 2

Mary Washington 2, W&L 0
Mary Washington 13, W&L 4
Randolph-Macon 9, W&L 1
W&L 4, Randolph-Macon 1
Eastern Mennonite 15, W&L 12
Hampden-Sydney 18, W&L 16
Virginia Wesleyan 11, W&L 8
Virginia Wesleyan.13, W&L 5
Lynchburg 25, W&L 3

W&L 7, Emory & Henry 6
W&L 12, Emory & Henry 3
Bridgewater 9, W&L 6
Bridgewater 16, W&L 5

W&L 12, Eastern Mennonite 9
Lynchburg 8, W&L 4

St. Mary’s 8, W&L 7

W&L 11, St. Mary’s 7
Hampden-Sydney 14, W&L 6
Guilford 7, W&L 2

Guilford 1, W&L 0

VMI 9, W&L 4

First of 5 at Randolph-Macon Invitational
Second of 6 at Roanoke Invitational
Fourth of 17 at Ferrum Invitational
Second of 7 at W&L Invitational

Fifth of 7 at Lynchburg Invitational
Third of 16 at Shipbuilder’s Invitational
Second of 6 at Bridgewater Invitational
First of 9 at ODAC Championship

W&L 11, St. Mary’s 6
Hampden-Sydney 12, W&L 6
W&L 17, Swarthmore 2

Alfred 15, W&L 11

W&L 12, Lynchburg 9
Gettysburg 10, W&L 7

W&L 12, Roanoke 11 (OT)
W&L 16, Mary Washington 3
W&L 22, Virginia Wesleyan 3
Franklin & Marshall 10, W&L 8
W&L 18, Guilford 1

W&L 18, Randoph-Macon 8
Washington College 11, W&L 10 (OT)
W&L 12, VMI 10

W&L 21, Bridgewater 2

Salisbury State 5, W&L 4

Roanoke 15, W&L 8

Lynchburg 12, W&L 11

W&L 13, Mary Washington 12
W&L 13, Plymouth State 2

W&L 17, Sweet Briar 13
Randolph-Macon 10, W&L 9 (OT)
Rowan 14, W&L 11

W&L 12, Guilford 3

3
a
ae Sl

a
W&L 21, Hollins 5 Se
W&L 9, Frostburg State 8
Denison 5, W&L 4
ODAC Tournament:
W&L 15, Sweet Briar 9
Lynchburg 12, W&L 6

Davidson 7, W&L 0

W&L 5, Guilford 4

W&L 9, Randolph-Macon 0
Hampden-Sydney 5, W&L 4
Wooster 5, W&L 4

W&L 7, Haverford 2

W&L 8, Mary Washington 1
Emory 6, W&L 3

Sewanee 5, W&L 3

W&L 9, Lynchburg 0

W&L 6, Eastern Mennonite 3
W&L 8, Occidental 1
Redlands 7, W&L 2

UC-San Diego 7, W&L 2
W&L 5, Pomona-Pitzer 4
Claremont 8, W&L 1

First at ODAC Championships
Washington College 9, W&L 0

W&L 5, Catholic 1

W&L 6, Radford 3

W&L 6, Mary Washington 3
W&L 9, Hollins 0

W&L 9, Nazareth 0

W&L Y, Virginia Wesleyan 0
W&L 9, Denison 0

W&L 9, Lynchburg 0

W&L 8, Roanoke 1

W&L 9, Bridgewater 0
W&L 6, Kenyon 3

W&L Y, Guilford 0

W&L 9, Mary Baldwin 0
W&L 6, Emory 3

W&L 8, Carleton 1 a
W&L 9, Sweet Briar 0 ‘
W&L 9, Randolph-Macon Woman’sO
W&L 8, Emory & Henry 1 |
W&L def. over Armstrong State
W&L 6, Sewanee 3

W&L 9, Randolph-Macon 0
First at ODAC Championships
NCAA Division III ‘Tournament:
Williams 5, W&L 3 *
W&L 6, UC-Santa Cruz 3 =
Emory 5, W&L 4 %

i aS: * ay :
ce ahd ts pay A sale ee
4 es F Pt

    

W&L 89.5, Bridgewater 49.5 oy
Second of 12 at W&L Invitational Se
Second of 6 at ODAC Championships
All other meets non-scoring oz

og

Ts
Fifth of 13 at W&L Invitational if
First of 6 at ODAC Championships
All other meets non-scoring

 

 

 

 

 

Jimmy Kull, W&L’s King of Country Radio,
Sets His Sights on the Professional Golf Tour

Jimmy Kull’s life wouldn’t make
much of a honky-tonk anthem. Consider
his four years at W&L: Executive Com-
mittee vice president. Frank J. Gilliam
Award recipient. Captain of the golf
feam his junior and senior years. And
‘ountry music messenger of the air-
waves via his afternoon radio show on
WLUR with partner and classmate Eve
McDonald. [t’s all just too darn happy.

_ Last summer, 11 years after borrow-
ing his brother’s tape of Mountain Music
by Alabama (which he never gave back),
Bull enjoyed a first-hand look at the
Sentry music business during his sum-
mer in Nashville. As a micro-marketing
intern for Arista Records, he worked on
Publicity for four of the label’s rising

Sta a ;
'S; Including Radney Foster and

——

Diamond Rio, but he harbors no desires
of making a career in Twitty City. “I
found out it was just musicians running
musicians and not business people run-
ning musicians,” Kull says. “I was
turned off by the lack of a professional
business environment.”

But there’s no tear in Kull’s beer, as
other dreams loom on the horizon. A Phi
Beta Kappa at W&L, Kull has already
been accepted into law school at the
University of Texas, but he has asked to
defer his enrollment for a year to try his
hand at professional golf. A four-year
letterwinner for the Generals, Kull
played on ODAC championship teams
his freshman and senior years and shows
the potential to get even better, shoot-
ing a collegiate-low 74 this spring while

enjoying his best year ever. Kull was
medalist at the Shipbuilder’s Invita-
tional in 1993 and placed third at the
Ferrum Invitational the last two years.

Kull learned the game in the compa-
ny of five Division I scholarship golfers
at his country club in Dallas and fol-
lowed in the footsteps of 1992 U.S.
Amateur champ Justin Leonard (“I was
kind of like the boy in the golf commer-
cial wearing sneakers,” he jokes). His
desire to give the pros a shot is fueled
by his friendship with former W&L All-
American Clay Thomas ’92, who is
working as an assistant pro in Florida
and playing in a number of tournaments
while trying to move up in the ranks.
Kull and teammate Bo Williams ’94 are
both kicking around the idea of joining
Thomas in Florida, and Kull might also
play on the Texas Tour.

Should Kull make the pro circuit,
he’ll owe a large debt of gratitude to
veteran W&L golf coach Buck Leslie.
“When he was our age he was fighting a
war and here we are complaining about
the green conditions,” he notes. “I had
the best facilities and the best teachers
growing up, but Coach Leslie showed
me there’s a mental side to golf. He’s
what W&L is all about: tradition.”

His work with the Executive
Committee has gone a long way toward
sustaining the University’s traditions.
“I’ve gained an appreciation for the
Honor System that I had no idea |
would ever attain,” says Kull, a Kappa
Sigma. “It’s never easy to come to a
decision, but to be justified by the stu-
dent body is extremely gratifying.”

If his golf career shouldn’t pan out
and he decides to bypass the law as a
career, well, there’s always his music.
While interning at Arista last summer,
Kull and several other staffers were
invited to sing background vocals on a
song by country superstar Alan Jackson.
“My friends and relatives don’t believe
me,” he says, “but I made sure I was
wearing a W&L shirt when I got my pic-
ture taken with him.” If you don’t
believe us, check out the credits on
Jackson’s album, Honky Tonk Christmas.

The song’s title? “Please Daddy
Don’t Get Drunk This Christmas.”

—By Brian Logue

35

‘The Class of 1944—or Whatever’

 

A Belated Commencement Highlights Reunion Weekeng

 

 

 

 

 

Guess you had to be there.

When members of the Class of 44
scattered every which way but Lexing-
ton more than half a century ago, the
world was in flux—and so, for that mat-
ter, was Washington and Lee. There
was no Ca/yx to document their senior
year; The Ring-tum Phi was replaced by a
wartime paper called 7he Columns; and
most significantly, there was no formal
graduation on campus that spring.

“They received their diplomas all
over the world—across the Pacific, in
Europe, wherever,” explains Rob Mish
°76, associate director of alumni pro-
grams at W&L. And as planning for
their 50th reunion began, he says, com-

>

mittee members made one thing clear:
“They wanted a graduation ceremony.”
And so it came to be, on May 14,
1994, at a ceremony attended by 50
alumni out of the original class of 162,
that President Wilson awarded the Class
of °44 with their diplomas, however
belatedly. ‘he classmates’ affection for
their a@/ma mater was already apparent, as

36

evidenced by a $2.7 million gift which,
with the combined efforts of the classes
of 1945, 1946, 1947, and 1948, will
establish a World War II Scholarship at
Washington and Lee.

But to put those feelings into words,
we can hope to do no better than Grant
Mouser °44, who, upon the announce-
ment of the gift, articulated the feelings
of this most unusual class:

“IT have tried with great difficulty
over the past months to describe our
class, which fragmented in many direc-
tions in the early 1940s, not only to war
but later to other institutions. | am
reminded on the famous inconclusive
short story, “The Lady or the Tiger.’
Were we the last pre-war class or the
first post-war one? We will never know.

“A literary critic wrote that F. Scott
Fitzgerald went off to war—and to meet
Zelda in Montgomery—in a raccoon
coat. We left W&L in blue seersucker
coats, gray flannel slacks, button-down
shirts, and black-knit ties with a
Windsor knot. And don’t forget the

 

r and Joe

penny loafers and argyle socks.

“We graduated, if at all, at various
times and in various places. Registrar
Earl Mattingly sailed my diploma across
the counter in the registrar’s office in
July 1943, adding, ‘Here.’ As I left the
office to go off to war and the Navy, he
added, ‘Good luck.’ Mr. Mattingly was
never verbose. We are still not sure
whether we were members of the Class
of 1943, or 1944, or 1945, or a post-wat
group. A few, like our friend Lin
Holton, who would have graduated nor
mally in 1945, perforce has joined US.
We welcomed him. His class vanished
almost without a trace. ;

“We did not realize as our class disif-
tegrated that our country and the world
would never be the same again. Seve?
of us gave their lives; the rest of us had
our lives disrupted. The Class of 1943—
our good friends and predecessors—W*

‘ e
essentially pre-war. We never had th
ohesive

or more
r more

opportunity to achieve their ¢
ness. We were neither smarter, 1
charming, nor more athletic, no

i

 

 

 

 

mature, nor better looking—though
some of us may dispute this last compar-
ison—than other classes, before and
since. I will not even comment on our
behavior! Yet we were and are unique
through the happenstance of World War
I]. No one can take that one distinction
away from us, even 50 years later.

“For me, the ties with the University
and the lasting friendships I made,
despite the turmoil, constituted a major
event in my life. World War II accentu-
ated rather than diminished these ties
for me. Law school at W&L after the
war was for me quite different—good,
but different.

“So welcome back, members of the
Class of 1944, or whatever. You were
and are special. God bless and keep you
until we meet again—sometime, some-
where, somehow.”

A Record Weekend

More than 700 alumni descended
upon Lexington for a memorable week-
end that featured picture-perfect weath-
er, the requisite outing at Zollmans, and
chicken of every variety imaginable.

Distinguished Alumni Awards were

conferred upon A.C. Hubbard Jr. *59
"62L, Glenn O. Thornhill ’63, and
Pamela J. White ’77L. A visibly moved
White, at a loss for words but not with-
out a speech, had outgoing Law Alumni
Association president Charles B. Tomm
68, °75L deliver her heartfelt thanks.

The first Distinguished Young
Alumni awards were presented to John
M. Cleghorn °84 and Lee M. Hollis ’86.
The honors will be presented annually
to alumni who have been out 15 years or

less who have made their mark on the

dae ee  . \

bs

 

University and their community at large.
Reunion gifts from the 25th- and
5O0th-reunion classes totaled more than
$3.5 million to the University. The
undergraduate and law classes of °44
gave $2.7 million to go toward the cre-
ation of a World War II Scholarship,
while the undergraduate and law classes
of 1969 contributed a 25th-reunion
record $779,332 to endow a scholarship
honoring James Graham Leyburn.

“We are gratified that our alumni
continue to return in such strong num-
bers,” says Jim Farrar ’74, director of
alumni programs. “The love and loyalty
they show for Washington and Lee with
their presence is tangible, and we con-
tinue to strive to make the program as
well-rounded and attractive as possible.”
Seminars on the 1996 Olympics and
W&L Today were among the highlights.

 

Alumni Board Adds
Five New Members

Five new directors were elected to
the Washington and Lee Alumni Board
at its annual meeting in May.

is the founder,
president and chief executive of the
Rockbridge Co. in
Dallas, a firm pro-
viding real estate
investment, con-
struction manage-
ment, and con-
struction services.
In the course of
his professional
he has
completed pro-

 

career,

jects in more than 50 cities, including
Louisville (Ky.)’s Broadway area and
Brown Hotel renovation and Rich-
mond’s ‘Tobacco Row adaptive re-use
project. Blake was a member of Zeta
Beta Tau at W&L and graduated with a
degree in independent studies with a
concentration in economics and urban
development.

is a part-
ner with Hunton & Williams in Rich-
mond, which he joined in 1980 after
clerking for Judge John Minor Wisdom
°25 in New Orleans. He was editor of
the Law Review while at W&L and a

 

member of Phi
Kappa Sigma.
More recently,
Calvert has been
active as a chapter

volunteer, as a

 

member of the

 

 

Richmond area
campaign commit-
tee, and as re-
union chairman for the law class of °79
this past year. He and his wife, Helen,
have two daughters.

is secretary-
treasurer of the Lighthouse Consulting
Corp. in Atlanta, which she joined last

year. A Kappa

 

 

Kappa Gamma
while at W&L,
Hagewood is
active as a class
agent for the
Annual Fund and

 

as a volunteer
with the Alumni

Career Assistance

 

Program. She was among the key orga-
nizers of Fancy Dress South, which
drew roughly 250 people from all over
for a black-tie evening at the Ritz-
Carlton Buckhead last fall and is one of
the largest chapter get-togethers ever.
was elect-
ed to a full five-year term on the Alumni

Graduating Sons and Daughters of Alumni

 

38

 

  

Board, which he joined in 1993, An asso.
ciate with Covington & Burling in
Washington, D.C., Sharman
environmental law and whiteceill
criminal defengal
He is active for
W&L as an ACAP
volunteer, as Pres.
ident of the Phi
Delta Theta
house Corporation,
and as a member
of the Washington
area Campaign
committee. Most recently, Sharman
chaired the committee to select W&L’s
first-ever recipients of the Distip-
guished Young Alumni awards.

is president of
TVI Corp. in Wilmington, Del. and a
former vice president of Alco Standard
Corp. in Valley

 

 

Forge, Pa. With
Bill Russell °57,
he co-chaired the
Philadelphia area
campaign, which
roared past its $2.5

 

 

million goal late
last year. A Pi
Kappa Phi at
W&L, Veale and his wife, Lois, have
two sons, including Tinkham IV, a ris-
ing senior at W&L.

 

id F.. Drum

11°65 and law

od Vm . oC S|

| , ie J ; } , z er = : FS Ron '
: 3 .

7 y es ro ss :

\/

> A =
: id p 4

aA

a Mi Lf fe . "
[a fe a
We) A

od
v

 

39

Four More Names
For Hall of Fame

The Washington and Lee Hall of
Fame will welcome four new members
during ceremonies on Hall of Fame
Weekend from Sept. 9-10. This year’s
class, the seventh to be inducted,
includes baseball and football standout
Brian Bell °49, All-American lacrosse
goalie Skeet Chadwick ’74, All-Ameri-
can basketball player Pat Dennis °78,
and deceased coach Archie Mathis, who
led W&L’s powerhouse wrestling teams
prior to World War II.

Brian Bell 49 remains one of W&L’s
all-time best two-sport athletes. As a
football play-
er, he was a
standout two-
way back and
dangerous
kick returner
whose school
record = for
single season
kickoff re-
turn yardage

 

(27.2) still stands. His senior year he
earned all-state honors while leading
the Generals in rushing and scoring. He
played one season of professional foot-
ball with the Washington Redskins and

 

Detroit Lions. In baseball, Bell was a
three-time all-state first baseman who
finished his career with a lifetime .331
batting average. In 1948 he became one
of just a handful of W&L players to bat
over .400 in a season with a .419 mark
and led the Southern Conference with
six home runs and 22 stolen bases. ‘The
22 stolen bases remains the W&L single
season standard.
Skeet Chadu
Generals to the top of the lacrosse world

‘¢ helped power the

as one of the greatest goalies in W&L
history. W&L
compiled an
unbelievable
record of 51-7
during his
career and
reached the
NCAA Divi-
sion I semifi-
nals his junior
and senior
seasons. Individually, Chadwick was
named first-team All-America in 1973
and 1974 and won the C. Markland
Kelly Award as the nation’s outstanding
goalie in 1974. Chadwick holds numer-
ous school records, including single sea-
son save percentage (72.0), career save
percentage (67.9), single game saves
(28), and single season saves (269). He

 

 

 

 

The spectacle you’re witnessing
at left is that of Law Alumni
Association president Charlie
Tomm ’68, ’75L taxiing Alumni
Association president Mason New
*62 to Lee Chapel for the groups’
annual joint meeting in Lee Chapel
during Reunion Weekend. Last
spring, you may recall, Tomm laid
down the challenge—pull or be
pulled—to his undergraduate
counterpart in an effort to boost
participation in the Annual Fund.
You can see who won; the con-
veyance was provided by the ath-
letic department. But in this case,
everyone’s a winner; both under-
graduate (41 percent) and law (36
percent) participation levels are up
dramatically over last year.

 

 

4

was inducted into the Nationa] Lacrosse
Foundation Hall of Fame last year,

Pat Dennis ‘78 didn’t crack W&L’s
starting lineup until his junior SCason
but he made up for lost time in a hur :
In his junior year he averaged 21.7

 

Points a game
While shoot.
ing a Sizzling
57 percent
from the
floor. The
Next year he
shattered
W&L’s sin-
gle season
scoring mark with 700 points and also

 

 

 

set a school record with 305 field goals
while averaging 25.0 points per game.
Dennis was a two-time All-American,
earning first-team honors in 1978, and a
two-time Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Player of the Year. In his final
two seasons W&L went 45-11, won two
ODAC championships, qualified for the
NCAA Division III championships
twice, and was ranked as high as fourth
in the country. Dennis finished his
career with 1,428 points, the ninth most
in school history. He has been head bas-
ketball coach of the Citadel since 1992.

Archie Mathis guided the W&E
wrestling program to its greatest success
as head coach from 1925 to 1942. In his
17 seasons as head coach, the Generals
dominated
the opposi-
tion, putting
together 4
record of 80-
21, including
nine unde-
feated scea-
sons. W&L
also won four
Southern Conference championships
during his tenure and hosted the 1936
NCAA Championships when W&L Hall
of Famer Hugo Bonino finished as the
runner-up at heavyweight. Mathis and
six of his former wrestlers gave thelf
lives in World War II. The wrestling
room inside the Warner Center was ded-
icated in his memory.

The 1994 Athletic Hall of Fame bat
quet will be held Friday, Sept. 9.

 

 

>

41

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Notes

’
30

Merle Suter

lives in Arlington, Va., and says that

he is “still hanging in there!” He

traveled to Canada and France last

fall.

’
3]
The Rev. Henry R. (Red)
Mahler Jr.
retired as General Presbyter of Blue
Ridge Presbytery in 1977. He and
his wife, Beth, live in Lynchburg,
Va. Mahler preaches at two country
churches near Lynchburg and serves
as a tour docent at Thomas
Jefferson’s second home, Poplar
Forest, which is only four miles
away from his own home.

‘33
Dr. John A. Womeldorf

is in health care at Sunnyside Home
in Harrisonburg, Va.

’
35

Frederick D. Strong

of Burton, S.C., is doing volunteer

work for three charitable organiza-

tions and trying to find time to play

golf and rehearse for a part in a local

production of Gypsy.

W.G. Wiglesworth Jr.

is retired and enjoying life. He
keeps busy by traveling, skiing, gar-
dening, developing a tree nursery,
and developing a wildlife area. He
lives in Cynthiana, Ky.

’
36
Ralph H. Smith
retired as vice president of Union
Central Life Insurance Co. in
Cincinnati, but still does some con-
sulting work for insurance compa-
nies. He and his wife of 53 years,
Mary Eleanor, do a lot of traveling.
Smith writes that he is still the
“town crier” for the village of
Mariemont, Ohio.

’

3S
George F. Bauer Jr.
recently traveled to Europe, stop-
ping in Ireland, Scotland, England,
North Wales, and Germany. He is

retired and lives in Middletown,
Ohio.

Paul M. Miller

taught a class on Chinese history at
Dartmouth College in 1993, as part
of the college’s ILEAD program for

42

older students. He lives in
Springfield, Vt., and plans to teach
again this fall.

Dr. Albert A. Pollack

is still doing some consulting work
for the Federal Reserve System,
employee benefits division. He
takes an occasional trip to Bermuda
for golf and swimming. Pollack lives
in New York City.

Col. John H. Shoaf

was honored by the Chamber of
Commerce of Guatemala at a cere-
mony in Guatemala City in
February. He has served as the hon-
orary vice consul of Guatemala, as a
consultant to the Guatemalan
Chamber of Commerce and as for-
mer secretary of the Houston
Consular Corps. Shoaf lives in The
Woodlands, Texas.

Calvert Thomas

writes, “Our 55th Reunion last
October was very nice in every way.
My wife and I enjoyed it very
much.” The couple lives in West
Hartford, Conn.

’
39
The Hon. George F. Mclnerney
retired in January after completing
32 years on the bench as a county
Judge and then a Supreme Court
Justice for the State of New York.
After receiving his law degree,
McInerney entered the Air Corps
and became a navigator. He flew 17
combat missions in the 8th Air
Force and was awarded several
medals, including the Distinguished
Flying Cross. He was recalled to
active duty during the Korean War,
and served as squadron navigator of
the 54th ‘Troop Carrier Squadron.
McInerney lives in Bayport, N.Y.

SEL

Ralph H. Smith
See °36.

’
40

Lawrence E. Carson

lives in Montgomery, W.Va., and

writes that he is still enjoying his
favorite hobby, traveling.

Louis F. Plummer

and his wife, Phyllis, took a cruise to
Belize, Rio Dulce, and Guatemala
for their 51st wedding anniversary.
They live in Alamo, Calif.

40L

Paul M. Miller
See °38.

Calvert Thomas
See °38.

4]

Robert C. Petrey

continues to serve as alderman for
the City of Kingsport, Tenn., a posi-
tion that leads to considerable
involvement in the civic affairs of
the community. Petrey also writes,
“My efforts with the Alumni
Admissions Program are quite grati-

fying.”

4.1L,

The Hon. George F. McInerney
See '39.

‘43

Allen J. Sharitz

lives in Port St. Lucie, Fla. He
writes, “If any of you snowbirds or
near-snowbirds from the Class of °43

”

ever get to Florida, give me a call!

‘44

Dr. Frederick W. Bauer

retired from the U.S. Naval Reserve
in 1982 and from the Allied-Signal
Corp. in 1987. He lives in Wayne,
N.J., with his wife of 40 years,
Ethel. They have five children and
six grandchildren.

Dr. Charles W. Broders

is a retired surgeon. He and his wife,
Ginny, live in Temple, Texas,
where Broders volunteers as a writ-
ing tutor at the local high school.
The couple travels fairly frequently,
usually to England.

Dr. John B. Cancelmo Il

lives in Radnor, Pa., with his wife of
45 years. They have six children and
four grandchildren.

Tyler R. Gresham

retired in July 1992, lives in Atlanta,
plays a little golf, and travels some.
Gresham is enjoying his children
and grandchildren, and says that his
best friend is his dog.

J. Courtney Theurer
lives on Hilton Head Island, S.C.

’
48

Dr. Marvin L. Daves

retired as a professor of radiology at

the University of Colorado School of

Medicine in June. He was chairman

of the department from 1962 until

1977. Daves and his wife, Joy,

recently moved to Goodyear, Ariz.

’
49
James A. Anderson Ill
lives in Murray, Ky., where he is
practicing law and reviewing the
papers of Congressman Fred M.
Vinson, preparing to write a book.

Jack P. Leigh

is retired, but remains aCtive jr
Republican politics. He was ¢
chairman from 1982 to 1989, }
been a delegate to 12 state cor
tions and two national convent
(1972 and 1988.) He also has Ja
interests in California, Tera
Mississippi. Leigh lives in
Waxahachie, Texas.

49L,

Kenneth W. Hovermale

is retired and living on Kent
Md. He spends the winters on
Marco Island, Fla.

9
50 |

Edward K. Shelmerdine 1

lives in West Chester, Pa., but

that he hopes to retire to North
Carolina this year.

’
Sf
Oliver T. Carter
has been retired since 1988, br
remains active as a consultant, }
stays busy trying to keep up y
15 grandchildren, playing golf,
volunteering at Arlington Hosp
Carter lives in McLean, Va.

Guy B. Hammond
is the author of Conscience and It
Recovery: From the Frankfurt Sch
Feminism, which was published
the University of Virginia Press
year. He lives in Blacksburg, Va

   
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
   
  
 
   
  
    

George L. Hamrick
and his wife have both retired at
moved to Smith Mountain
Va.

Robert T. Pittman
was honored in February with t
establishment of a scholarship ir
name at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. The av
will be presented annually to ar
standing journalism student at
school. Pittman retired as edite
editorials at the St. Petersburg (
Times in 1991, a post he held fo
years.

Stk

James A. Anderson Ill
See °49.

’
53

Spencer T. Snedecor Jr.

retired from BellSouth, but say

he remains active in the family _

investment, an Ace Hardware |

He lives in Buford, Ga. ‘

John A. Williamson II
was appointed to the board of —
trustees of the California Maritin
Academy by Gov. Pete Wilson"
February. He lives in Saratoga.

-

54
pert E. Bradfor a

Ro ching his final year as chairman

Fe Se National Easter Seal Society.

- marks the 75th anniver-

_ the ee *

pradford lives in Vanvulle, Wall,

ert O. Glaster

d early retirement at the end
and is now looking for a job
| business. He lives in

Rob
accepte
of 1995 anc
in internacion®
Hudson, Ohio.

tO. Paxton

received an honorary degree from
the University at Stony Brook in
New York. He ts the Mellon
Professor of Social Sciences at
Columbia University and director of
the Institute on Western Europe.
Paxton received his Ph.D from
Harvard University in 1963. He lives
in New York City.

5

Scott B. Clinton

retired after more than 33 years in
the semiconductor business with
RCA, GE, and the Harris Corps. He
moved to Palm Beach Gardens, Fla.

56

Victor R. Bond

is still with McDonnell Douglas
Aerospace in Houston and is also an
adjunct professor at the University
of Houston-Clear Lake. Last
November, he presented a paper at
the Non-Linear Astrodynamics
Conference at the Geometry Center
of the University of Minnesota. He
lives in Dickinson, Texas.

Rober

S. Booker Carter Jr.

retired in March as assistant vice
president-legal and senior assistant
secretary with NSI after 19 years in
the company’s legal department. He
lives in Atlanta.

Earl §. Gillespie
retired in July after 33 years with
the Virginia High School League.
€ was honored for his many years
of service to the youth of Virginia at
a banquet held in March. In 1961,
Gillespie joined the VHSL as first
assistant executive secretary, a post
he held until being named the
league’s executive director in 1986.
He lives in Charlottesville.

’
561,
John A. Williamson II

See °53,

’

57
Bacio G. Aliotti

©W represents USA Today for the

Italian market, in addition to 7he
European, Le Nouvel Economiste, and
The N.Y. Festivals. He lives in Milan.

‘58

Charles P. Corn

is working on a book about the spice
trade. His last book, Distant Islands:
Travels Across Indonesia, was pub-
lished by Viking-Penguin in 1991
and has been translated into Dutch
and Japanese. Corn lives in San
Francisco.

Dr. William R. Kelting 111

is the chair of the accounting depart-
ment at the State University of New
York-Plattsburgh.

W. Philip Laughlin

moved from Thailand to Singapore
in March. He is a senior project
management consultant for Exxon
affiliates in Singapore, Malaysia,
‘Thailand, Hong Kong, and
Indonesia.

Maj. Gen. Ross G. Pickus

was recently appointed chief operat-
ing officer of Tri-Cor Industries, a
national computer systems integra-
tor/software development/systems
management corporation based in
Landover, Md. He lives in Shady
Side.

‘59

DuBose Ausley

recently became partners in law
with Nathan Simpson "61 when the
pair merged their law firms, forming
the firm of MacFarlane, Ausley,
Ferguson and Simpson. Ausley lives
in Tallahassee, Fla.

Dr. Homer C. House
lives in Towson, Md., and has three
grandchildren.

H. Donald Morine
is president of Allegheny
Development Corp. in Pittsburgh.

’
60
Roy C. Flannagan Jr.
is a professor at Ohio University and
editor of 7he (John) Mi/ton Quarterly.
His edition of Paradise Lost for
Macmillan was published in 1993.
Flannagan’s stepdaughter, Melissa
Sawyer, will be a sophomore at
W&L this fall. He lives in Athens,
Ohio.

Dr. Edward F. Good

is a neurologist in private practice
and serves as a neurological consul-
tant to NASA in Houston. He lives
in Webster, Texas. Good writes that
he enjoyed a reunion with classmate
Deryk Hart last September. The
pair sailed for five days off
Vancouver Island.

 

Young at Heart

M. Neely Young °43 is what most people would call a “hail
fellow well met.” His hearty handshake, huge smile, and dap-
per dress mark him as a gentleman whose company you really
want to keep. Raised in Lex-
ington and son of legendary
athlete Cy Young °17—the
University’s first alumni sec-
retary—Neely has eclipsed
his father’s lengthy shadow
by distinguishing himself in
other ways—as a devoted
friend, a loving father (M.
Neely Young II graduated in
1966), and a man for whom
Washington and Lee means
more than almost anything

Neely Young °43: His charm ts
virtually irresistible.

else in life.

Joyfully, Neely does not keep the latter to himself. A tire-
less ambassador and shameless cheerleader for W&L, he
shouts it from the rooftop and through his trademark postcards
to classmates. No one—and I mean no one—is more vocal in
the pleasure he derives from his lifelong association with this
old school. In word and deed, Neely gives life to the intangi-
bles we associate with the University so that others will come
to know what he so loves. Let me share a few examples.

When I visited him in Richmond a few years ago, Neely and
his beautiful wife, Sharon, hosted a little party for me that
included neighbors that were about my age so that I “might
feel more comfortable” and “know what nice young people
live in Richmond.” Neely wants people to enjoy life as much
as he does, and he will labor tirelessly to achieve that goal. At a
recent chapter gathering, he asked me to accompany him to his
car so that he could give me a leatherbound edition of the 1917
Calyx to share with a friend and colleague whose grandfather
was featured within its covers. Such unexpected thoughtful-
ness is an integral part of Neely’s unique style.

Neely’s interests are utterly consistent with his being truly
young at heart. He knows intuitively that the future of our
country lies with our youth—and especially with those who
attend his beloved Washington and Lee. He and his classmates
spearheaded a 50th reunion effort that resulted in the erection
of a handsome wall along the perimeter of the historic campus
to remember their classmates who lost their lives in World War
II, as well as endowing a scholarship in memory of Cy
‘Twombly, esteemed coach and mentor, so that future genera-
tions of students may benefit from enhanced opportunities.

Though not a rich man in terms of dollars, Neely has includ-
ed the University in his will, thereby establishing a permanent
legacy at W&L. Neely Young’s legacy is truly a legacy of love.

David R. Long
Director of Planned and Capital Giving

43

Photo: Brian Schmitt

 

Dosey Dog World

James W. Smith ’62 was recently named chairman of the
board of one of the most exclusive clubs in the country. It has
more than 1.4 million members, all with only the most impec-
cable of bloodlines, avd the papers to prove them.

We’re talking, of course, about the American Kennel Club,
the largest not-for-profit dog
registry in the nation. Smith,
who began showing dogs in
high school, was elected
chairman of the AKC’s board
of directors this past March.
The board meets monthly
and is a policy-making body,
he says, “not unlike a univer-
sity’s board of trustees.”

Established in 1884, the
AKC promotes the study,
breeding, exhibition, and
advancement of purebred

King of clubs: American Kennel
Club chairman James Smith 62.

dogs and employs more than
400 people in New York City
and Raleigh, N.C. The self-
described “club of clubs” has about 500 member clubs and
roughly 4,000 affiliates, and more than 11,000 AKC-sanctioned
events draw some 2 million entries each year—from dog shows
and obedience trials to hunting tests and coonhound events.

Smith has long been a friend to man’s best friend. As a stu-
dent at W&L, he traveled from Winston-Salem, N.C., to
Charleston, W.Va., showing dalmatians, and in the years since
he has judged numerous dog shows across the United States,
Canada, and Australia. A past president of the American Fox
Terrier Club, he’s personally crazy about smooth fox terriers:
“They have a coat like a dalmatian or a bull terrier,” he says,
“and are not like the wire fox terrier at all.”

As the largest registry for purebred animals in the world, the
AKC has 135 breeds registered. “That is more than all others,”
Smith notes, including birds, horses, and exotics. And new
breeds are being approved on a regular basis: One of the most
recent to be recognized by the AKC is the Shiba Inu, a small
dog of Japanese origin.

Smith, who lives near his hometown of Buffalo, N.Y.,
devotes the rest of his time to running American Wire Tie Inc.,
a manufacturer of wire products used primarily in concrete con-
struction with plants in New York and Meridian, Miss. His
election as AKC chairman came on the same day that fellow
dog lover and alumnus Langdon L. Skarda *38L died (see page
53). “He was probably the most revered all-breed judge in the
dog world,” Smith explains—Dog News called Lang Skarda “the
best friend any man or dog ever had.”

As long as there are dogs, though, you can bet there’s going
to be a W&L connection. —By William Cocke '82

Paul R. Plawin

is an executive with the American
Vocational Association. His second
book, 30 Days to a Good Job, was
recently published by Fireside
Books. His first book, Careers for
Travel Buffs and Other Restless Types,
was published by VGM Career
Horizons in 1991. Plawin lives in
Falls Church, Va.

’

61
Nathan P.B. Simpson
See DuBose Ausley ’59.

;

62
The Rev. L. Douglas Hill Jr.
is the Petersburg district superinten-
dent of the Virginia Conference of
the United Methodist Church. He
lives in Petersburg with his wife,
Janet.

Robert F. Norfleet Jr.

was promoted to executive vice
president and senior credit officer
with Crestar Bank. He had been
president of Crestar’s Capital
region. Norfleet lives in Richmond.

63

Sidney G. (Ted) Johnson Il

is legal counsel for Dollar Rent A
Car, Pentastar Services, which is
owned by Chrysler. He lives in San
Rafael, Calif.

Clarence Renshaw Il

moved to Fincastle, Va., just 40
minutes south of Lexington, in
December. His Phi Kap fraternity
brother, Ralph Wiegandt *62, *68L,
handled the closing. Renshaw
reports a number of W&L alumni
sightings in Fincastle. He ran into
Benton Bolton *64 at the County
Treasurer’s Office (he’s the treasur-
er) and George Honts ’62, ’68L,
Jimmy Glenn °63, and Lomax
Breckenridge °38 (another Phi Kap)
at church. Renshaw writes that he
and his wife, Evelyn, feel right at
home in Fincastle with so many
W&L types around. He continues to
work as a communications consul-
tant to high technology firms and is
looking to expand from the D.C.
area to the Roanoke Valley.

63L

James L. Howe Ill

lives in Virginia Beach where he is
general solicitor with Norfolk
Southern Corp.

;
64
Martin E. (Sandy) Galt Ill

was elected president of Boatmen’s
Trust in St. Louis.

Donald B. McFall]

is president of the law firm of
McFall and Sartwelle in Houston,
The firm has close to 400 lawyer |
and was formed as a part of a i

lawyer spinoff from Butler and
Binion in 1985.

  
 

James W. Mell

was elected CEO of the Li :
Foundation. The foundation gall
ates the Little Hill Lodge, a long-
term, residential rehabilitation cen-
ter for chemical addiction in
Blairstown, N.]J.

John Y. Pearson

writes that each of his three children
graduated from graduate school, co}.
lege and high school, respectively,
in May and June. He lives in
Norfolk, Va.

Dr. Peter 8S. Trager
is still practicing dentistry in
Marietta, Ga.

E. Randolph Wootton Jr.

is heading the marketing operation

of a successful bank consulting firm
in Atlanta. His son, Randy III, nayj-
gates a Navy attack bomber. His
daughter Susie ’93, recently com- _
pleted her first year of medical 3
school and his daughter, Lois, is get
ting ready to begin her senior yearat _
W&L.

’
65

Stephen T. Hibbard
is still in investment counseling __
with Middleton and Co. He and his ©
wife, Ginnie, live in Weston, Mass.
Their older son, Charles, graduated
form Connecticut College in 1993
and is working for an architect
before applying to graduate schools. -
Their younger son, Kent, just fin-
ished his sophomore year at Ithaca —
College. .

:

Earl J. Magdovitz
lives in Germantown, Tenn., with —
his wife, Barbara, and their six chil-
dren, Ashley, Brett, Jamie, Mitch,
Paige, and Hunter.

’
67
Charles M. Bruce
recently started the law firm of

Moore and Bruce in Washington,
D.C. He also acquired two new

’

68
John M. Lee
stopped teaching to work on the
Clinton campaign in 1992. He 1s
now writing plays and writing,
speaking, and advocating for re
in education, healthcare reform,
other changes in government. H€
lives in Boulder, Colo.

 

   
 

_pard E. Rivera

Riel Friday’s after seven years
me president and CEO of

to Horn Steaks, based in Atlanta.

ard lV
John lt to Louisville, Ky.,
aii pleased to discover that
“of his next-door neighbors
a W&L alumni: Charlie Castner
and Bill Crawford ’76. Ward’s
Peter, will enter W&L as a

freshman in the fall.

69

Martin F. Mullin

is working as a motion picture cam-
an. He lives in Miami with his

wife and two children.

69L

Donald B. McFall
See ‘64.

70

Robert L. Entzminger

has been awarded a National
Endowment for the Humanities fel-
lowship worth up to $30,000. He is
one of fewer than .0004 percent of
humanities professors in higher edu-
cation to receive a federal grant.
Entzminger is chairman of the
English department at Rhodes
College in Memphis.

52

Lawrence E. Honig

was named president and chief
executive officer of Federated
Systems Group, the Atlanta-based
centralized data processing division
of Federated Department Stores.

’
71
Charles D. Andrews
is regional manager for the Middle
East and Africa with Sprint

International. He lives in Herndon,
Va.

Christopher C. Dove

lives in Bethesda, Md. He is mer-
chandise manager for restaurant
supplies with Mazo-Leich, a whole-
sale grocer in Alexandria, Va.

Timothy H. Dyer
Was promoted to senior vice presi-
t with Compass Bank. He has
been with the bank since 1971 and
currently director of marketing
and CRA officer. Dyer lives in
on, Mass.

Claude M. Walker Jr.
Was appointed chief operating offi-
Ser of Standard Corp., a provider of
Ousing, trucking, and manu-
fg support services in South
lina, North (¢ sarolina, Georgia,

.~“Msylvania, and Florida. He lives
lumbia, S.C.

he
J. Charles Lee

was promoted to assistant vice presi-
dent with NationsSecurities in
Anderson, S.C. He has been an
account executive with
NationsBank since 1990, and was
previously a financial consultant at a
local securities firm.

Kenneth B. Murov

has been appointed chairman of the
Newport News (Va.) School Board.
He completed his second term on
the board in June. He is a partner in
the Newport News law firm of
Jones, Blechman, Woltz and Kelly.

John C. O'Neal

gave his presidential address,
“Reflections on the Decline in
Authority,” at the annual meeting of
the Northeast American Society for
Eighteenth Century Studies last
October at Yale University. He lives
in Clinton, N.Y.

Dr. Frederick (Rick) H. Sands
still lives in Hawaii where he recent-
ly moved into a new home designed
by his brother. Sands can be seen
briefly in “Real Sex 4,” his national
TV debut.

Peter M. Somerville

recently completed the Reserve
Officers National Security Decision
Making Course. He was one of only
21 naval reserve officers selected to
attend the class from units nation-
wide. The two-week course was
taught at Naval War College in
Newport, R.I. Somerville is counsel
at Resolution Trust Corp. in
Washington, D.C.

’
73
Nimrod W.E. Long Ill
recently opened an office in Atlanta,
in addition to his firm’s Birmingham
offices. The Atlanta office will
implement the designs for Peach-
tree Street and Woodward Park and
expand the regional work of the
urban design and landscape archi-
tecture. Long still lives in
Birmingham.

Jack V.H. Whipple Il

is chief financial officer of Atlanta
Desktop Media,Inc., a computer
software training firm. He lives in
Norcross, Ga.

‘a

Michael Campilongo

is general counsel for the U.S.
Nuclear Waste Negotiator. Under
the 1987 Nuclear Waste Policy
Amendments, the Negotiator is
charged to find interim storage sites
for spent nuclear fuel from civilian
power production pending long-

term facility development by anoth-
er federal department. Campilongo
lives in Washington, D.C.

74
Robert L. Jackson

is staff pharmacist at Bluefield
(W.Va.) Regional Medical Center.

Bryan B. (Skip) Whitehurst

is a software engineer for Digital
Logging, a manufacturer of oil field
logging equipment for the interna-
tional market. He lives in Tulsa,
Okla., with his wife, Frances, and
their daughters, Laura and Cecilia.

John P. Woodley Jr.

was appointed Deputy Attorney
General of Virginia for Government
Operations. The Government
Operations division of the Attorney
General’s Office has 36 attorneys
who represent state agencies dealing
with finance, general services, high-
ways and transportation, commerce
and trade and natural resources. He
lives in Richmond.

’
75

Frederick L. Dame

of Burlingame, Calif., was promoted
to vice president, national accounts,
with the Seagram Classics Wine Co.
He is one of 26 Master Sommeliers
in the United States (there are only
68 in the world). He belongs to 28
food and wine societies throughout
the United States, is a professional
judge at wine competitions across

the country and is also a columnist
in The Wine Trader.

Steven W. Van Amburgh

lives in Dallas with his wife, Lee
Ann, and their three children, Sam,
Kate, and Pete, all of whom make
up the Annual Fund staff for the
Class of 1975.

Dr. Duncan F. Winter

is an ophthalmologist with a solo
practice specializing in small inci-
sion cataract surgery and refractive
surgery. He traveled to Africa last
winter where he performed nearly
100 surgeries in 10 days as part of an
expedition of the Flying Vision
Mission. Winter is the founder of
the group, which was developed to
help severely disabled people in
emerging countries with cataracts
and other eye diseases. He lives in
Saranac Lake, N.Y. In April, Winter
coordinated a trip to Bosnia, bring-
ing almost $15,000 worth of medical
supplies as part of the Save Our
Olympic Sister group that he found-
ed.

75L

Angelica Didier Lloyd
was elected vice president, general

counsel, and corporate secretary of
Shenandoah Life Insurance Co. in
Roanoke. She is also serving as chair
of the board of the United Way of
Roanoke Valley.

’
76

M. Reed Morgan

of La Mesa, Calif., is program direc-

tor with the San Diego Community
Foundation.

TOL

James P. Carmody

recently became the first attorney in
Virginia to be certified in consumer
bankruptcy by the American Board
of Bankruptcy Certification. He
lives in Richlands.

’
77

James R. Brooks

was recently named president and
CEO of GSR Holdings, which has
offices in New York, Dallas, New
Orleans, Houston, and San Fran-
cisco. Brooks lives in Houston with
his wife and their three children.

Stuart W. Coco

recently moved into a new home in
Houston to accommodate his larger
family. He and his wife have three
children: Graham, Alexander, and
Lila.

Leon F. (Rocky) Joyner Jr.

is a vice president and actuary with
the Segal Co. He lives in West Palm
Beach, Fla., with his wife, Ann, and
their children, ‘Trey and Ashley.
Joyner is also the Sunday School
superintendent for the Lake Worth
First Nazarene Church.

James B. Mallory Ill

was promoted to lieutenant colonel
in the U.S. Army Reserve and now
commands a Basic ‘Training
Battalion in Asheville, N.C. He is an
attorney in private practice with
Mattox, Mallory and Crowson in
Statesville.

Dr. Robert E. Ottenritter

is a full partner in an OB-GYN prac-
tice in Baltimore. He lives in
‘Towson, Md., with his wife, Joan,
their son, Slater, and their daughter,
Hilary.

‘ALE

Robert J. Frank
started R.J. Frank Home
Inspections, a residential home

inspection company in Ann Arbor,
Mich.

John P. Woodley Jr.
See °74.

’

78
Rodney M. Cook Jr.
designed the Newtington-Cropsey
Gallery of Art and Cultural Studies,
on the grounds of the historic studio
and home of American architect and
artist Jasper F. Cropsey, in
Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. The
gallery and research center opened
in May. Cook is a design consultant
and principal of Rodney M. Cook Jr.
Interests in Atlanta, where he lives
with his wife, Emily.

Theodore W. Hissey Ill

is vice president and general manag-
er of the Pepsi-Cola/Ocean Spray
Alliance. He lives in Ridgefield,
Conn., with his wife, Pam, and their
four children, Teddy, ‘Tyler,
Brittany, and Sara.

Dr. E. Brewington Houston
af.

lives in Austin, Texas, with his wife,
Mary Lou, and their three children,
Meredith, Kendall, and Everett III.

Steven H. Hufnal
lives in Mequon, Wis. He works for
Erffmeyer and Son in Milwaukee.

Stephen J. Marzo

has resigned as European treasurer
and credit executive at Salomon’s
Phibro Energy unit in London and
joined Bear Stearns Asia Limited in
Hong Kong as managing director,
Asia Credit/Risk Management.

Lee W. Muse Jr.

was named vice president of sales
and marketing for Details Inc. in
December 1993. He has been with
the company since 1989. Muse lives
in Mission Viejo, Calif. with his
wife, Sandy, and their three sons,
Lee III, Tucker and Alex.

Benjamin B. Swan

writes, “I’m feeling a little old since
we will have our first couple at Pine
Island whose parents are younger
than I am. As it approaches its 100th
anniversary, we are finding it is
more popular than ever.” He lives in
Brunswick, Me.

David W. Talley Jr.

has had a law practice in Magnolia,
Ark., since 1982. He served for 10
years as deputy prosecuting attorney
there. Last August, Talley received
his license to practice before the
United States Supreme Court. He
has been licensed in Virginia since
1981 and Arkansas since 1982.
Talley lives in Magnolia with his
wife, Becky, and their two sons.

James H. Veghte

was appointed vice president-under-
writer with the Mid Ocean
Reinsurance Co. He was with
Winterthur Reinsurance Corp. of
America for the past 13 years.
Veghte lives in Chatham ‘Township,
N.J.

46

’
79
Maj. Freeman E. Jones
lives in Stuttgart, Germany, where

he is operations officer with the 1-10
Special Forces group.

Stephen Y. McGehee

is a vice president with the Bank of
Boston’s corporate banking group in
Atlanta. He and his wife, Ruth, have
three children: Teddy, Ben, and
Lisa.

Dr. David M. Persson

practices internal medicine in
Norfolk, Va. He lives in Virginia
Beach with his wife, Irene, and their
three children.

Dr. David R. Scott

lives in Nassawadox, Va., on the
Eastern Shore with his wife, Andrea,
and their three children, Jennifer,
Charlotte, and Katherine. They
enjoy rural life and boating on the
Chesapeake Bay.

Will H. Tankersley Jr.

was named partner in the law firm
of Balch and Bingham. The firm has
offices in Birmingham, Huntsville,
and Montgomery, Ala., and in
Washington, D.C. Tankersley prac-
tices in the Birmingham office in
the firm’s litigation and corporate
securities sections.

William C. Taylor Jr.

lives in Shrewsbury, Pa., with his
wife, Cathy, and their two sons,
Tom and Daniel. He was recently
named to their Township Planning
Commission. Taylor is an assistant
export manager with Harley-
Davidson in York, Pa.

John C. Tompkins

lives in Cockeysville, Md., with his
wife, Sara Lee, and their three chil-
dren, Jack, Scott, and Julia. He is a

vice president with Alex. Brown &

Sons.

’

SO
David A. Greer
assembled alumni Jim Flippen °79,
Michael Devine ’80, and John R.
Smith °83 and their families at the
Cedar Island (Va.) Hunt Club last
summer for a week of red hot
weather, ice cold beer, and no oys-
ters. “Memorable events from W&L
were embellished beyond recogni-

tion,” he says. Greer lives in
Norfolk, Va.

Thomas A. Lisk

of Richmond was named a member
of the law firm of Hazel and
Thomas. His practice focuses upon
the representation of business and
association interests before the
General Assembly of Virginia, as
well as various state and federal
administrative agencies, with an

emphasis on healthcare, insurance
and alcoholic beverage regulation.

Davidson A. Perry-Miller
writes that he spent a great
Christmas week in Lexington. He is
still working on the place in
Nantucket and would enjoy seeing
any classmates who are up that way
in September.

Dana S. Samuelson

is a senior vice president at Jefferson
Coin and Bullion, a full-service coin
and precious metals brokerage firm
in New Orleans.

SOL

Patricia A. Van Allan

moved to Jakarta, Indonesia, in
February with her husband, Art. She
is Far East regional counsel for
Schlumberger Oilfield Services.

’

S]
Peter H. Benda
has been working for the consulting
firm of A.T. Birney since he gradu-
ated from Wharton with an MBA
and an M.A. in international studies
in 1992. He recently returned from a
15-month assignment in Brazil and
is now based in Chicago.

Christopher J. Daniel

is an investment consultant with
Rauscher Pierce Refsnes and a
trustee of the Ray C. Fish
Foundation. He writes that he is
very involved in putting together a
plan to affect change in the inner
city of Houston, through coordinat-
ing efforts of ministries and social
agencies.

David B. Irvin

works in the antitrust and consumer
litigation section of the office of the
Virginia Attorney General. He lives
in Richmond with his wife, Anne
Watson, and their two sons, ‘Taylor
and Jack.

Robert B. Neely

was recently elected chairman of the
Presbyterian Village North Board of
Trustees, a retirement community
in north Dallas. He is also a member
of the Presbyterian Healthcare
Systems board of trustees and presi-
dent of the governing board of the
Texas School for the Deaf. He lives
in Dallas.

J. Ross Newell Ill

lives in Staunton, Va., with his wife,
Muffie, and their two daughters,
Liza and Emma.

SLL

Maj. Malinda E. Dunn

is the Staff Judge Advocate of the
82nd Airborne Division at Fort
Bragg in North Carolina.

 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
   

Richard P. Rodgers y

has joined Meridian Internatio, :
Center after 12 years in the U

Foreign Service. Meridian isa dl
profit organization in Washing J
D.C., designed to promote inter,
tional understanding through th
exchange of people, ideas and th
arts. Rodgers lives in Arlington y
his wife, Anne, and their two ch
dren, Winthrop and Margaret,

‘82

Joseph A. (Trey) Benson J,
is a senior account executive wir
Webcraft Technologies in Dallas
The company is the largest prin
of direct-response and instant-
lottery tickets in the United

    
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

James V. Bent Jr.
and his wife, Marci, recently me
to The Woodlands, Texas, fror
Midland. Bent is a senior geole
at Texaco’s exploration and pre
tion technology division, workir
reservoir management of Midd
Eastern oil fields damaged duri
the Iraqi invasion. The couple
two sons, Nick and Satchel.

Garry Carneal ;
is legislative counsel for health
cy at the National Association ¢
Insurance Commissioners in
Washington, D.C. He and his w
Traci, live in Great Falls, Va.

Dr. Gilson J. Kingman

and his wife, Cheryl, live in _
Winston-Salem, N.C. He comp
his general surgery residency
Joseph Mercy Hospital in Ann
Arbor, Mich., last year and is ne
his first year of a fellowship in

tic surgery at Bowman Gray Sch
of Medicine in Winston-Salem.

Robert M. Waymouth 4
was recently promoted, with te
to associate professor of chemi
Stanford University. He lives t
Alto, Calif., with his wife, Wint

’
S3
James R. Black
is an associate with Anshen ane
Allen Architects, a San Francis¢
based firm specializing in healt
and research facilities. He work
the company’s East Coast offie
Baltimore. ‘

The Rev. Keith E. Goreta®
is pastor of Northside Baptist —
Church in Baltimore. He lives #
Cockeysville, Md. j

W. Richard Jones Jr.
is an equity analyst with C.H. &
& Associates, a money-manap®
firm in Dayton, Ohio. He and!
wife, Anne, have two sons, Ry¢
Henry.

  

Brady Millican Ill
ein Irmo, S.C., with his wife,
: and their two children, Ian

Kay Redd HI Peer
‘keting specialist with Tri-
Grate Lumber in Fulton, Miss. He
moved to Tupelo last fall from West
Point, Va., with his wife, Anita, and
cheir children, Jessica and Jacob.

The Rev. Den m is S. Roberts

is a Lutheran minister in |
Lynchburg, Va. He was profiled in
the Lynchburg News and Advance \ast
February in a story about home
brewers. Roberts has been brewing
his own beer for seven years.

Dr. John S. Solitario

is an anesthesiologist at Memorial
Medical Center in Savannah, Ga.,
where he lives with his wife, Selina,
and their daughter, Margaret.

‘83L

Mona G. Edwards

is a special assistant in the city man-
ager’s office in Greensboro. She and
her husband, Emanuel, have two
children, April and Ian.

‘S4

David C. Adams

is the owner of WJEN “Cat
Country” 94.5 FM, serving the
southern and central regions of
Vermont. He lives in Dorset.

Martin J. Bechtold

is general manager of the Cleveland
State University Convocation
Center, a 14,000-seat arena in down-
town Cleveland.

Eric J. Campbell

was a speaker at the Steel Structures
Painting Council (SSPC) National
Conference and was selected to be a
co-chairman of the SSPC National
Conference on lead paint removal
from steel structures. He lives in
Glen Cove, N.Y., with his wife,
Helen, and their son, Stephen.

Melville P. Cote Jr.
Works in the water quality branch of
the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency Region I in Boston. He
Works primarily with the state of
Connecticut, ad ministering grants to
Support the Long Island Sound

tudy and other water pollution
Control programs. Cote lives in
Malden, Mass.

Robert M. Dees

Is Practicing admiralty and media
4W with Gabel, Hair and Taylor in
Jacksonville.
John P. Domeika

wa ° °
_— partner in the Richmond
itm of Crews and Hancock. He

is also pursuing his LL.M in tax at
the College of William and Mary.

Jack L. Goldsmith Ill
joined the faculty of the University
of Virginia School of Law in June.

W. Leonard Howard Jr.

is a paramedic and firefighter in the
Emergency Medical Service at
South Georgia Medical Center in
Valdosta, Ga. He is also pursuing
degrees in computer science and
nursing at Valdosta State University.
Howard lives in Valdosta with his
wife, Nita, and their sons, Reuben
Bland and Roy Leonard.

Capt. Parker B. Scheneker

is stationed in Vilseck, Germany, as
a Brigade Intelligence Officer, 3rd
Brigade, 3rd Infantry Division.

O4L

David J. Hansen

is division legal counsel for Charter
Medical Corp., a psychiatric hospital
company. He lives in Macon, Ga.

OS

Daniel M. Jayne

left the Army this spring to enter a
private practice in physical therapy
in Maryland. He lives in Annapolis.

William L. Joel

was named a member of the
Jacksonville law firm of Ulmer,
Murchison, Ashby and ‘Taylor.

D. Burton Palmer

lives in Darien, Conn., with his wife,
Eleanor, and their daughter, also
named Eleanor.

Dr. William R. Sanderson
completed his residency in urology
at the Louisiana State University
Medical Center in Shreveport in
June and is now part of the Mobile
(Ala.) Urology Group.

William H. Schoeffler
is a financial consultant with the
Robinson-Humphrey Co. in Atlanta.

Michael J. Spellman

graduated from the St. Louis
University School of Medicine, and
will stay in St. Louis to pursue his
residency at the university.

Jay M. Wallace

recently joined two other attorneys
in forming Gibson, Sarles and
Wallace, a law firm specializing in
insurance law and personal injury
defense in Dallas.

OSL

Thomas A. Lisk
See ’80.

J. Ross Newell Ill
See °81.

 

Renaissance, Man

Wanted: Musician with experience in both old-time and rock ’n’
roll music scenes. Must be able to play fiddle, guitar, banjo, and sing
lead and harmony vocals. Theater experience and playwriting skills
necessary; Ph.D in French literature an absolute requirement. Must be
expert deer and turkey hunter. Ability to build own house a plus.

If such a position existed, James Leva ’80 would be the man
for the job. In this increasingly specialized age, Leva is one of
those people who seem to be able to do just about anything
they set their mind to. He
could play the guitar by age 11
and the fiddle by 18, and when
he came to W&L in 1971, he
was struck by the richness of
the area’s musical heritage. “I
got turned on to Celtic and
bluegrass music, but I| gravitat-

 

ed more and more toward old-
time,” explains the Morris
County (N.J.) native.

While studying in Paris on a
Fulbright Scholarship after
graduation, Leva was asked by
fellow alumnus Al Tharp ’76 to
join the old-time band Plank
Road, which toured Denmark
and Northern Europe over the next three summers. Around

F ree-willin’: James Leva ’80.

the time he began his graduate studies in French—a subject he
had flunked in high school—in 1984, Leva began a long associ-
ation with Lime Kiln Arts in Lexington. With his wife, fellow
musician Carol Elizabeth Jones, Leva has been the theater’s
artist-in-residence for the past year, and the couple was recent-
ly commissioned to write a new play under a National
Endowment for the Arts grant awarded to Lime Kiln in May.

He’s content with his part-time status as a professor at VMI
for now, if only because his other projects keep him so busy. In
1990, Tharp (living in New Orleans and playing with the influ-
ential Cajun group Beausoleil) again approached him about
forming a new band. The Freewill Savages successfully blend
old-time with rock, Cajun, zydeco, Irish, jazz, reggae, and
swing, and “even though we only get together three to four
times a year,” Leva says, “we are very fertile musically when
we do.” The Savages have performed on the syndicated radio
show “Mountain Stage,” and played the annual bluegrass festi-
val in Telluride, Colo., in June. In between everything else,
Leva somehow found the time to build his own house in the
Collierstown area of Rockbridge County.

Asked how he is able to juggle so many different interests,
Leva replies: “Survival.” On a more reflective note, he adds,
“Well, it used to be. I’ve always enjoyed life. It’s a pretty amaz-
ing thing. As Bertolt Brecht said, “Talent is interest.’ ”
If that’s true, then James Leva is one interesting guy.

—By William Cocke ’82

47

’

SO
W. Watson Barnes Jr.
has finished the first year of his
MBA program at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill’s
Kenan-Flagler School of Business.

John-Paul Bouffard

is in his first year of a pathology resi-
dency at Willford Hall Medical
Center. He lives in San Antonio,
‘Texas.

Dr. Scott B. Boyd
lives in Chapel Hill, N.C.

Kathleen Plante Cordsen

is pursuing a graduate degree in fine
arts at Harvard University. She and
her husband, Richard, live in
Chestnut Hill, Mass.

J. Christopher Gilman
develops, sells, and manages real
estate with Gilman and Childress
Realtors in Ashland, Va., and
Richmond. He also operates a pri-
vate limousine business. Gilman
lives in Richmond.

William R. Hemphill Jr.

joined the law firm of Scarborough
and Wesibart in Austin, ‘Texas. He
was formerly with the firm of
Jenkens and Gilchrist. Hemphill
continues to practice business litiga-
tion law.

C. Michael Stachura

was promoted to associate editor at
Golf Digest in January. He works
with PGA tour players and Go/f
Digest playing editors Nick Price and
Mark O’Meara. Stachura lives in
Shelton, Conn.

SOL

Jeffrey D. Gaines

formed a law partnership with Paul
E. Pysell ’74L for the general civil
practice of law in the Staunton/
Augusta County/Waynesboro., Va.,
area. Gaines lives in Craigsville.

Thomas M. Jones

is an associate with the Louisville
(Ky.) law firm of Brown, ‘Todd and
Heyburn.

Robert 1. Stolzman

recently became a principal of the
Providence (R.1.) law firm of Adler
Pollack and Sheehan. He concen-
trates his practice in the areas of
land use, real estate law, and gov-
ernmental affairs.

’
S87

Frederick J. Bissinger

joined the Judge Advocates Office

of the U.S. Navy after his graduation

from Seton Hall University School

of Law. He lives in Maplewood,
N.,J.

Andrew J. Bouie

lives in Hyattsville, Md., with his
wife, Angela, and their daughter,
Patyon Renee. He works for BDM
Federal.

Thomas J. Boyd

was awarded the John A. Knauss
Marine Fellowship by California
Congresswoman Lynn Schenk and
is spending a year as a Knauss
Fellow with the division of ocean
sciences at the National Science
Foundation in Washington, D.C.

C. Bryan Chaffe

is a consulting hydrogeologist with
I'l Corp., an international environ-
mental consulting firm based in
Nashville. He lives in Antioch,
‘Tenn. Chaffe writes, “Much of my
free time is spent whitewater kayak-
ing with Mark Lubkowitz °91 and
playing my guitar.”

John H. Church

graduated from the Georgetown
University Graduate School of
Business last year. He works in the
investment banking group at Dillon,
Read and Co. in New York City.

John B. Cummings Ill

lives in Westport, Mass., where he is
director of distribution projects for
Sideout Sport USA.

Capt. Alejandro (Alex) Lopex-
Duke

is at Fort Hood, ‘Texas, working
division medical operations at the
First Cavalry Division. He is enjoy-
ing the country atmosphere in “hot,
arid, sunny central Texas.”

John V. Lowe

teaches Spanish and coaches
wrestling at Oakland Mills High
School in Columbia, Md. Last sum-
mer, he won the AAU National
Championships in Greco-Roman
wrestling at 163 pounds and he is
planning to try out for the 1994
world team.

Raymond M. (Mac) McGrew
is a vice president with Nations-
Bank Capital Markets in Atlanta.

Thomas R. Murray Ill

is a patrol officer for the Princeton
Township Municipal Police
Department. He attended Special
Weapons and Tactics School in the
Spring and expects to be assigned to
a SWAT team this summer. Murray
lives in Princeton, N.]J.

Samuel P. Simpson V
graduated from the Louisiana State
University Law Center in May and
plans to move back to Richmond
with his wife, Margaret.

88
J. Simon Perez

is a writer for Canal de Noticias
NBC, a 24-hour Spanish news pro-

gram that is broadcast to Central and
South America and Spain. He lives
in Charlotte.

Kevin S. Webb

is a third-year law student at W&L.
He was elected president of the
Executive Committee for the 1994-
95 academic year.

Floyd M. (Buck) Wiley 11
has been practicing international
and tax law with KPMG in Moscow
since July 1993. He writes,
“Moscow is nice, but I regret that I
did not take Russian language
courses while at W&L.”

SSL

M. Hollis Hutchinson
is associated with Kip Petroff, a
medical malpractice firm in Dallas.

Richard E. Price

is an attorney in the corporate law
department of State Farm
Insurance, where he handles litiga-
tion defense. He lives in San
Antonio, Texas.

Richard Welch

was named legal adviser to Federal
Communications Commission head
Rachelle B. Chang in May. He was
previously staff attorney in the
office of the general counsel of the
FCC.

’
SY
Amy C. Balfour
graduated from W&L School of
Law in May 1993. She travelled
throughout the southwest after the
bar exam and was admitted to the
Virginia Bar last November. Balfour
lives in Richmond and is working as
a judicial clerk at the Henrico
County Circuit Court.

Matthew P. Brady
lives in Hong Kong.

Robert F. Burch

is in his fourth year in sales of corpo-
rate relocation services for Alexan-
der’s Moving and Storage/Atlas Van
Lines. He will receive his master of
international business from Johns
Hopkins in December, but writes
that he plans to exit the business
world by age 50 to join the Senior
PGA Tour. Burch lives in Baltimore.

Catherine W. Councill

is location manager with the Virginia
Film Office,which markets the
Commonwealth to the film and TV
industry to encourage on-location
filming in Virginia. Among the pro-
ductions she has worked with in the
past two years are Foreign Student
(which is now scheduled to open
July 29), Assault at West Point, The
Pelican Brief, Dave, Sommersby, and
this summer’s Lassie remake.

  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
     
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

Lee F. Fahringer
and his wife, Deborah, live in
Hampton, Va. He works in h
resources at the Noland Co. in
Newport News.

Scott B. Gorry
has worked for Ecolochem Inc, _
since 1991 and is now on a one-r
three-year assignment at the N
Refining Co. in Artesia, N.M. H
lives in Artesia with his wife of ¢
year, Kathryn.

G. Bradley Gottsegen if
is a senior dental student at the
LSU School of Dentistry. He }jy

in New Orleans. j

Carolyn D. (Bitsy) Hopper —
is an attorney in Austin, Texas.

Frederick W. (Fritz) Lake]
is pursuing his MBA at the |
University of ‘Texas-Austin. He —
spent a month last summer in an
intensive language program in
Cuernavaca, Mexico and says th
he is close to fluent in Spanish r
Lake and his wife, Jennifer, live
Austin.

J. Edward Miller
was recently promoted to litigatic
assistant II with the law firm of
O'Melveny and Myers. He has t
porarily relocated to San Jose for;
trial and is taking hang-gliding
lessons there, but he still lives in
Hermosa Beach, Calif.

W. Lee Norton é
is a branch manager and invest

associate with Signet Bank in
folk, Va. He worked for Prudent
Financial Services for the past fiv
years.

R. Scott Quagliata
was recently promoted to captair
the U.S. Army. He lives in
Okla., and expects to remain the
for three more years.

5
e

  

Joseph F. Rowe if
graduated from medical school ir
May and started a six-year gener
surgery program in Birmingham!
June.

Michael D. Temple
is head baseball coach, assistant —
football coach, and a history and
economics teacher at Savannah
Country Day School in Georgia.

a

lan P. Thompson 4
works for Falcon Microsystems 1%
Alexandria, Va., selling computer
equipment. He lives in Old Te
with classmate Joe Emerson and
Clint Stinger *88.

C. Brian Turnau

moved from Fort Lauderdale, |
to Chicago, where he is product
manager for Seymour of Sycamor
Paints. He is also pursuing an
at Northern Illinois University.

topher L. Willard

Garis! a law office in Raleigh,

ne

C., in June 1993. He is licensed to
Bircce law in North Carolina and
Maryland.

Edward C. Yu

duated from Columbia Univer-

--« Graduate School of Business in
Al and is now working for Morgan
Se icy's high yield group. He lives
in New York City.

99),

Kristen V.K. Swenson

is associated with the law firm of
Kessner, Duca, Umebayashi, Bain
and Matsunaga in Honolulu,
Hawaii. She lives in Ewa Beach,

Hawaii.

90

James C. Ambrosini

js acomputer programmer with the
Equitable Insurance Co. in New
York. He lives in Pottersville, N.J.

T. Scott Brisendine

graduated from Catholic University
Law School in May 1993. He is now
clerking for Judge Stephanie
Duncan-Peters of the Washington
(D.C.) Superior Court. Brisendine
lives in Woodbridge, Va., with his
wife of two years, Stacy.

J. Wayne Burris

is still at Fort Bragg, N.C., and
recently completed Jumpmaster
School there. He was not injured in
the March 23 F-16 crash at Pope Air
Force Base, but asks, “Please pray
for those who were and for the fami-
lies of those who died.”

Jamie T. Campbell

lives in the Old Town section of
Alexandria, Va., with classmate Dale
Haines. Campbell is a technical
recruiter with Computer Data
Systems Inc. (CDSI) and Haines
works for Unisys Corp.

Gregory E. Euston Jr.

8 a reporter with the Fayetteville
Observer Times. He lives in Lumber-
ton, N.C.

Edward H. (Ted) Evans

was recently promoted to store oper-
ations project coordinator in charge
of opening new stores for Zany
Brainy, a new multimedia educa-
tional toy store for children. He lives
in Newtown Square, Pa.

Deborah Grove

'S Program coordinator for the
uscular Dystrophy Association,

Alaska chapter. The job takes her all

across Alaska, including Kitchikan,
Odiak, Juneau, Valdez, and Barrow.
fove lives in Anchorage.

nathryn T. Hardwick
4M accountant with Miller,

el

Hardwick and Company, a CPA
firm in Atlanta.

Ist Lt. Kevin M. Nash

is the executive officer of K Troop,
3rd Squadron, U.S. Cavalry at Fort
Bliss, ‘Texas.

Cecelia M. Philipps

is a settlement conference represen-
tative who travels throughout the
country for Dalkon Shield
Claimants Trust. She lives in
Richmond.

D. Scott Richardson

lives in Cockeysville, Md., and
writes, “I am distressed about the
number of my friends falling into
the marital abyss!”

Jonathan E. Ryan

is a producer for the 5 p.m. news on

WBRC-TY in Birmingham, Ala. He

lives in Alabaster with his wife, Amy
Hatcher "91.

Phillip L. Sampson Jr.
is an associate with the law firm of
Flynn and Hoefker in Houston.

Patricia A. Sciutto

is recruiting for the corporate
finance program at J.P. Morgan in
New York City.

Dr. Jonathan 1. Sheinberg
graduated from Georgetown
Medical School and was promoted
to captain in the U.S. Air Force. He
will spend a year at Fairfax Hospital
in northern Virginia before begin-
ning an emergency medicine resi-
dency at Wilford Hall USAF
Medical Center in San Antonio,
‘Texas.

Dr. Michael L. Stanchina
graduated from West Virginia
University School of Medicine in
May and is now in an internal medi-
cine residency program at the New
England Medical Center at Tufts
University in Boston.

Susan S. Swayze

received her master’s from UCLA in
1991 and has been working on her
doctorate since then. She expects to
complete the program this summer.

‘9OL

David N. Anthony

is an associate with the law firm of
Kaufman and Canoles in Norfolk,
Va. He practices in the firm’s litiga-
tion section.

Douglas R. Harris

opened a solo law practice in
Richmond after graduation. More
recently, he has studied public
administration at Virginia
Commonwealth University. He is
now working in Richmond with the
Virginia Department of Health,
enforcing safe drinking water laws

and regulations governing water-
works statewide.

Brian W. Robinson

is still practicing law with Hale and
Dorr in Boston, and has also started
a small business as a luthier (instru-
ment maker) on the side. He recent-
ly moved to Newburyport, Mass.,
with his wife, Libby.

’
9]

Cpl. Milas E. Davis III

recently reported for duty with the

4th Assault Amphibian Battalion,

4th Marine Division in Gulfport,

Miss.

William B. FitzGerald IV
was recently named to Phi Kappa
Phi, an honorary academic society,
at the University of Mississippi.

Alicia A. Hay

is special events coordinator for
Magic Me Inc. in Baltimore, a non-
profit group whose purpose is to
educate and motivate middle school
youth.

Wendy L. Hinton

is completing her second year of
graduate work in physics at
Hampton (Va.) University.

Ist Lt. David T. Johnston

is stationed in the small town of
Griesheim, Germany, about 30 kilo-
meters. south of Frankfurt. He is
the training officer of a tactical sig-
nal battalion and writes that the
beer and skiing are “awesome.”

Louis D. Kaye

will start his third year at Mercer
Law School in the fall. He lives in
Orlando.

Kathleen H. Kelly

moved to Hoboken, N.J., from
North Carolina to work at the
Liberty Science Center in the
school programs department.

LPC Christopher H. Leiphart
recently graduated from Marine
Corps Combat Diver School and is
currently an assistant team leader
with the 2nd Recon BN at Camp
LeJeune in North Carolina.

Alan K. Pierce

is working towards a J.D. and an
MBA at the University of ‘Texas at
Austin. Pierce writes that he is “still
writing and reading poetry at coffee-
houses.”

Amy Hatcher Ryan

was recently promoted to assistant
editor of McCall's Needlework maga-
zine. She lives in Alabaster, Ala.,
with her husband, Jon °90.

Richard P. Walt

will begin his third year of law
school at the University of Arkansas
at Fayetteville this fall.

’
92

Stacey A. Baker

is an internal auditor with Central

Fidelity National Bank in
Richmond.

William B. Caywood

works for Household Bank in
Annandale, Va., and lives in
Arlington with classmates Matt
Zamaloff, Chris Prior, and John
‘Thomas.

Timothy P. Gallagher

recently joined the asset based lend-
ing group of PNC Bank’s corporate
banking line of business as a rela-
tionship manager. He lives in
Medford, N.]J.

Robert A. Goodin

is in his second year of medical
school at the University of Louis-
ville. He plans on an orthopedic
surgery residency.

Michael J. Gray

is business manager with Vista
Systems Inc., a data processing com-
pany in Washington, D.C.

Jason B. Hendricks

works in event management and
coordination at Astrodome USA in
Houston.

M. Shane Kimzey

works in the trial department at the
law firm of Baker and Botts in
Houston. He plans to enter law
school in the fall.

F. William LaMotte Ill

lives in Columbia, S.C., where he is
a business banking representative
with Wachovia.

Christopher K. Livingston

is in his second year at the
University of Louisville School of
Medicine and is planning on a plas-
tic surgery residency.

Jeffrey F. Livingston

is a second-year medical student at
the University of Louisville School
of Medicine. He lives with his twin
brother, Chris, and W&L classmate
Bob Goodin.

Ellen B. (Ebie) Pearson
received her master’s in genetic
counseling from the University of
South Carolina in May and is now

working as a genetic counselor in
Columbia, S.C.

E. Lauren Rowland

has been taking theater classes at
the University of Maryland and
recently played the lead in a
Baltimore dinner theater production
of South Pacific. She lives in Ellicott
City.

Hamilton E. (Bo) Russel/ 111
recently completed his second year
of law school at the University of

South Carolina. He writes that he is

49

The lwo Chucks

Chuck Walker ’66 and Chuck Steinmetz have more in common
than the same nickname. Both work in the Silicon Valley offices of the
Hewlett-Packard Co.—the two have never met—and both are avid
boosters of the information environment at Washington and Lee.

Since John Stuckey came to W&L as director of university com-
puting in 1991, the University has added a first-rate computing system
to its other areas of excellence. At the center of it all is a high-perfor-
mance UNIX, a Hewlett-Packard 9000 Model 720 computer chris-
tened Liberty in honor of W&L’s Liberty Hall ancestor. Liberty links
the University to the global
Internet while housing electron-
ic-mail accounts for students and
faculty. This framework created
new opportunities for instruc-
tion, research, and student self-
education, and it has been even
richer thanks to “the two
Chucks,” as Stuckey calls them.
Chuck Steinmetz is an R&D
engineer at Hewlett-Packard,
where he works to improve the
performance H-P’s UNIX oper-
ating system on the Series 800
commercial systems. A Civil
War buff, his reading of General
Lee’s years at Washington
College brought him to Lexing-
ton to visit Lee Chapel. Struck by the care and respect paid to the
chapel and to such continuing Lee traditions as the Honor Code,
Steinmetz introduced himself to the development office and asked if
there was some way he could help the University, Stuckey says, “and
we've been receiving H-P equipment from him ever since.”

Steinmetz exercises his generosity through a special program at
Hewlett-Packard that allows him to buy H-P equipment at deeply dis-
counts for donation to non-profit institutions. A number of H-P print-
ers in faculty and research offices and student labs have come to W&L
from Steinmetz, whose engineering background also led him to ask
whether he could help our physics and engineering program, where he
has now donated an engineering workstation (dubbed “Newton”).

Seventeen members of Chuck Walker’s family (Walkers and
Steves) have studied at W&L dating back to the 1870s. A member of
Kappa Sigma, Walker was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa, and received
the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medal in 1966. He took an MBA at
Stanford before joining Hewlett-Packard, where today he’s worldwide
customer support manager for the analytical products group.

Walker has been a loyal and generous contributor to his a/ma mater,
but late last year, Stuckey says, W&L needed something other than
his financial support. “An H-P grant program seemed a good place to
apply for an engineering-graphics configuration, if we could find an
internal H-P sponsor,” he recalls. “Chuck not only agreed to the for-
mality of being our sponsor; he also helped strengthen the text of the
proposal, lobbied in its support, and made sure it was properly direct-
ed within Hewlett-Packard.” The day before Christmas break, Walker
called with the news that W&L’s grant had been approved and soon a
high-function UNIX workstation/server, two X-terminals, a color
printer, and related software were on their way to Lexington.

Building a first-rate information environment is not inexpensive,
and computer resources have become a major capital activity in the
University’s budget. The efforts of benefactors such as Chuck
Steinmetz and Chuck Walker, Stuckey says, is “the difference
between adequacy and excellence.”

 

Walker: Giving to Liberty.

working hard as a member of the
South Carolina Law Review.

Peer A. Soderberg

is a first-year student at Robert
Wood Johnson Medical School. He
lives in Princeton, N.J.

Joy 8S. Stoddard

lives in Georgetown, Md., and
works for the International
Monetary Fund, coordinating the
language training program.

Christopher C. Swann

is teaching ninth-grade English at
Holy Innocents’ Episcopal School in
Atlanta. He also coaches the girls’
varsity soccer team and assists with
the boys’ varsity and J.V. teams.

Robert G.D. Weisgerber

is in his second and final year of a
trainee program with Siemans AG,
Munich and Berlin, a German elec-
tronics corporation. He will remain
in Germany and work in the compa-
ny’s purchasing department after
completing his trainee program.

Scott A. Williamson
received his MBA from Robert
Morris College in Pittsburgh.

Matthew J. Zamaloff
is a legal assistant with Crowell and
Moring in Washington, D.C.

YCL

Alice Rodgers MacDiarmid
has moved to Bucharest, Romania,
where she is practicing international
law with the firm of Kingston and
Peterson.

’
D3
Brian K. Butcher
is pursuing a combined M.D./ Ph.D

degree at the Medical College of
Virginia in Richmond.

Max R. Dunlap

is pursuing his MBA at the
University of Houston at Victoria.
He lives in Beaumont, ‘Texas.

Christin N. Harvey

moved to Tokyo in March for a two-
year job teaching English for the
GEOS Corp.

Gregory I. Hinrichs

is a marketing assistant with Ford/
Meehan Insurance Services of
Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance
Co. He works in Beverly Hills
(90211) and lives in Los Angeles.

Richard W. Hoover Jr.

is enrolled in a master’s program for
music composition at the Cleveland
Institute of Music.

Jason B. Jenkins

recently completed the Navy’s
nuclear field electronics technician
course and was selected as the class

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
   
  
  
    
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

honorman for achieving the higt
GPA in his class. Jenkins was also.
meritoriously promoted to the ran
of Petty Officer 3rd Class. He join.
the Navy last July. ’

Stephen D. Johnson 7
works for MCI in Ontario, Calif He
lives in Redlands. ;

Tara A. Maitra
is a news associate with CNBC jn
Fort Lee, N.J. She lives in Nesha
Station.

Thomas G. May
is the staff assistant in the office ¢
Congressman Mike Synar of Okla-
homa. He lives in Alexandria, Va,

Scott E. McKoy
lived in France for several month
after graduation. He is working as q
assistant analyst for IDS Financial
Services in Oklahoma City and
plans to start law school in the fall

C

Jeremy D. Meadows
lives in Lexington, Ky., where he
attending the Patterson School ¢
Diplomacy and International
Commerce. He was a legislative _
intern in the office of Congressr
Scotty Baesler for both the fall ar
winter terms.

Elizabeth S. Miller

is in her third term at Auburn
University, where she is pursuing ©
her master’s in English. In her fit
year, Miller had a research assist
ship and in the fall, she will begin
teaching assistantship, teaching
freshman composition at Auburr

Melissa A. Phillips
worked as a physical therapy aide
Richmond for a year. She began —
work towards a master’s in occupa
tional therapy at the Medical
College of Virginia in June.

David M. Phillips
lives in Atlanta and is pursuing @
career as an artist. His work with
found materials was the subject ¢
one-person exhibition at the
Gallery in Lexington this spring. —

Patricia J. Pond
is pursuing a master’s in art histe
at the University of South Care

Elissa S. Pruett ,
is staff assistant in the office of
Congressman Lamar Smith (R-

Texas). She lives in Arlington, Va.

J

Amy E. Roberson
lives in Charlottesville, Va., wher
she is pursuing a master’s in spees
language pathology at the
University of Virginia.

Alison B. Schwab
is pursuing a master’s in geology
the University of Maryland. She
lives in College Park.

 

Snyder
_ Tice student at the Eliot
is eon School for Child Study at
Tufts University in Boston.

. Woolley
Se xion coordinator with

ae and Associates, an advertis-

ing marketing, and public relations

firm in Houston.

931,

amy C. Balfour

See 89
‘fer C. Holmes

Jenni

js an associate with the law firm of
Tydings and Rosenberg in
Baltimore. She practices in the

firm’s litigation group.

Marriages

Clendon H. Lee Jr. °76

to Barbara J. Pratt on Feb. 12, 1994,
in Alexandria, Va. he couple lives
in Alexandria.

George L. Booth '80

to Katharine Rixey Smith, on March
19, 1994, in Richmond. ‘The bride is
the daughter of Richard Smith °41
and the granddaughter of the leg-
endary Cap’n Dick Smith. All of the
groomsmen were W&L alumni

including Cary G. Booth °80, brother

of the groom, classmates Abney S.
Boxley II1, Howard W. Smith,
David E. Constine, and Carter H.

Tucker and Robert A.O. Calvert ’79.

The groom is the son of Lea Booth
‘40. The couple lives in Richmond,
where the groom is a vice president
of Johnson and Higgins of Virginia.

Lt. Cmdr. John K. Schmidt ’81

to Mary C. Fruhwerth, on Feb. 14,

1994. The couple moved from New-

town, Pa., to Norfolk, Va., in June,
when the groom was transferred to
Work on mishap prevention at the

Naval Safety Center. He was recent-

ly awarded the Navy Commenda-
tion Medal for Meritorious Service
at the Naval Air Warfare Center.

Bruce K. Young ’82

to Jennifer K. Law, on Aug. 7, 1993,
in the garden of the Cosmos Club in
Washington, D.C. The couple lives
in Washington.

Richard G. Owen ’83

t© Carol Elaine McDaniel, on Feb.

P 1994, Classmates John W.
erkinson Jr. and E. Scott Stanton

ed as groomsmen. The couple
es in Ashland. Va.

Patrick T. McGuire '84
i Marie vonVorys, on Nov.
» 1993. Marty Thomas ’83 was
tman. The couple lives in
anta, where McGuire is the

—

national sales manager for Cobb
Galleria Centre, a new convention
center where the 1996 Olympic
Volleyball events will be held.

William R. Sachs °84

to Ledee Kidd, on July 10, 1993, in
Dallas. ‘The couple lives in Dallas,
where Sachs works for Crestwood
Asset Management.

Alexander P. Brown IV ’85
to Victoria K. Ambrosino, on March
19, 1994, in Palm Beach, Fla. The
couple lives in Hong Kong, where
Brown is managing director of
ESPN Asia, a division of the ESPN
cable television network.

Christopher S. de Movellan ’89
to Diane Kowalak, on April 24,
1993, in Lexington, Ky. The couple
lives in Lexington, where de
Movellan is corporate relocations
manager for Prudential A.S. de
Movellan Real Estate.

Max W. Petzold ’89

to Melissa Anne Jay °91,

on Feb. 5, 1994, in Houston. Ingrid
Schroeder ’91, Mellisa Weller Bell
91, and Ann Dysart ’91 were in the
wedding party. The couple lives in
Houston, where the bride is an
accountant with Arthur Andersen &
Co. and the groom is the store man-
ager of a Sherwin-Williams.

W. Ross Singletary °89

to Sally Hanskell, on May 15, 1994,
in Jacksonville. Groomsmen includ-
ed Quinn Barton °88 and classmates
Joe Caccamo, ‘Ted Cover, Andy
Howell, Manoli Loupassi, ‘Tony
DeMartino, Tony Mitchell, David
Surface, and ‘Taylor Williams. The
couple lives in San Francisco, where
Singletary is regional director for the
Conseco Cos.

Wai-gat Winnie Chow °90

to Chung Shu Sum Sam, on March
13, 1994. The couple lives in Hong
Kong, where the bride is a school
social worker.

Heather K. Johnson °92L

to William D. Camp, on July 3,
1993, in Tupelo, Miss. ‘The couple
lives in Biloxi.

Ramona M. Franks °93

to Dr. William E. Gross, on March
19, 1994, in Lee Chapel. Brides-
maids included Susan Barton ’93,
Mary Hampson ’91, Amy James °93,
and Melissa Philipps °93. ‘The cou-
ple lives outside of Nashville, where
the groom has a private practice in
head and neck reconstructive and
plastic surgery.

John C. Stump °93L

to Crystal 8. Straube °93L,
on Aug. 7, 1993, in Charleston,
W.Va. The couple lives in
Charleston.

Births

Mr. @ Mrs. John A. Wolf ’69,
’72L, a daughter, Molly Robb, on
May 3, 1994. She joins two sisters,
Miriam, 2, and Jessica, who is a
junior at W&L. The family lives in
Baltimore.

Mr. © Mrs. John B. Woodlief
*72, ason, Charles Augustin, on
Feb. 26, 1994. He joins a brother,
Joseph. The family lives in
Charlotte.

Mr. © Mrs. John L. Griffith
Jr. °72L, ason, A. Huntington, on
Feb. 3, 1994. The family lives in
Princeton, N.]J.

Dr. © Mrs. Bruce 1. Hyatt
°74, ason, Ross Harrison, on Dec.
11, 1993. The family lives in
Baltimore.

Mr. ©@ Mrs. Robert H. Jones
"75, a daughter, Grace Elisabeth,
on Jan. 21, 1994. The family lives in
Dallas.

Mr. @ Mrs. Craig H. Coller
°76,a daughter, Rachel Karyn, on
Jan. 15, 1994. She joins a sister,
Molly Louise. The family lives in
Miami, where Coller is an assistant
county attorney practicing in the
area of zoning and land use law.

Maj. © Mrs. Philip L.
Hanrahan °76, ’86L, a daughter,
Emma Beckwith, on Oct. 20, 1993.
The family lives in Lexington, Ky.

Mr. © Mrs. Stephen R.
Strawsburg ’76, ason, Benjamin
‘Thom, on March 30, 1994. The fam-
ily lives in Winston-Salem, N.C.

Mr. © Mrs. William E.
Thompson IV ’76, ason, William
E. Thompson V (T.J.), on July 29,
1993. The family lives in Baltimore,
where Thompson is an accounting
manager with Nadina’s Creams, an
all-natural scented body moisturiz-
ing cream manufacturer.

Mr. © Mrs. Stephen Q. Giblin
°77, ason, Kevin Matthew, on
March 24, 1994. He joins sisters
Meghan and Lauren and brother,
Patrick. The family lives in Lake-
wood, Ohio.

Mr. ©@ Mrs. David B. Johnston
‘77, a daughter, Lillian Brannon,
on April 5, 1994. The family lives in
Marblehead, Mass.

Dr. @ Mrs. Steven B. Heird
‘78, ason, Andrew Taylor, on Jan.
29, 1994. He joins brothers William
and Jonathan. The family lives in
York, Pa., where Heird is a vascular
surgeon with the Apple Hill Surgical
Associates.

Mr. @ Mrs. Michael A.
Burnette °79, ason, William
Powers, on Sept. 27, 1993. The fam-
ily lives in Columbia, S.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Charles M.
Flowers, Jr. °79, a daughter,
Ruth Anderson, on Jan. 5, 1994.
The family lives in Columbus, Ga.

Mr. @ Mrs. Kevin T.
McFadden ’79, a daughter, Molly
Maureen, on Jan. 26, 1994. She joins
a brother, Kevin and a sister,
Margaret. The family lives in
Richmond.

Mr. @ Mrs. Landon R. Wyatt
III ’79, ason, Robert Hamilton,
on April 14, 1994. He joins a broth-
er, Landon, and a sister, Margaret.
The family lives in Charlotte.

Mr. @ Mrs. John W. McAlister
"80, a daughter, Anne Wilson, on
Jan. 9, 1994. She joins a sister, Lacy.
‘The family lives in Charlotte.

Mr. @ Mrs. M. Kevin McCusty
*80, ason, David Alan, on Jan. 6,
1994. He joins a brother, Jono. The
family lives in Richmond.

Mr. @ Mrs. William E.
Pritchard III ’80, ason,
Edward Harris, on April 20, 1994.
He joins sisters Lauren and
Catherine and brother William. The
family lives in Mobile, Ala., where
Pritchard practices oil and gas and
environmental law with Adams and
Reese, a large New Orleans firm
with offices in Mobile.

Mr. © Mrs. Kevin R. Bell ’81,
a son, Parker Ryan, on Feb. 17,
1994. He joins a sister, Tobin. The
family lives in Westminster, Md.

Mr. @ Mrs. Mark M. Suber
’8/, ason, Benjamin Ellis, on
March 4, 1994. The family lives in
‘Tallahassee, Fla.

Mr. © Mrs. Robert E. Walton
Jr. ’81, a daughter, Sydney Aliese,
on Oct. 1, 1993. She joins a sister,
Katie, and a brother, Peter. Walton
recently joined PNC Bank in
Louisville, Ky., as a vice president
in commercial real estate.

Ms. Kathleen Fenton Kronau
"81L, and her husband, Roger, a
daughter, Kimberly Marie, on Sept.
22, 1993. She joins a sister, Kathryn
Michelle. The family lives in
Roanoke.

Dr. © Mrs. Scott T. Howell
*82, ason, Sebastian, on May 10,
1993. The family lives in Durham,
N.C. Howell will complete his anes-
thesiology residency at Duke
University Hospital in June 1995,
and will serve as chief resident next
year.

51

Mr. @ Mrs. Curtis J. Turpan
‘82, ason, Michael John, on July 7,
1993. He joins a brother, Connor.
The family lives in Glen Rock, N.J.,
where Turpan is an attorney special-
izing in litigation.

Mr. © Mrs. H. Lee Woosley

III ’82, ason, Harry Lee IV, on
Jan. 17, 1994. The family lives in
Nashville.

Mr. © Mrs. Glenn A. Drake
’83, ason, Tyler James Dodge, on
Jan. 30, 1994. The family lives in
Wilton, Conn.

Mr. @ Mrs. Harry A.
Feuerstein ’83, a daughter,
Rachel Leigh, on Feb. 3, 1994. She
joins a brother, Jared Chase. The
family lives in Reston, Va., where
Feuerstein is a principal and manag-
ing director of National Capital Co.,
an investment banking firm.

Mr. @ Mrs. Rodney E. Taylor
*83, a daughter, Virginia Grace, on
Dec. 31, 1993. The family lives in
Amherst, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Thomas H. Webb
’83, a daughter, Emily Alison, on
Aug. 24, 1993. The family lives in
Fayetteville, Ark.

Mr. © Mrs. John M. McGarry
*83L, a daughter, Eloise (Ellie)
Anne, on Jan. 12, 1994. The family
lives in Glencoe, Ill.

Mr. © Mrs. W. Price Morrison
*83L, a daughter, Laura Price, on
March 17, 1994. She joins sisters
McCaughan, Dial, and Gray. The
family lives in Memphis, ‘Tenn.

Mr. @ Mrs. Douglas E. Ulrich
’84L, a daughter, Lydia M., on
Feb. 4, 1994. The family lives in
Rochester, N.Y.

Mr. © Mrs. Richard C. Emrey
Jr. °85, ason, Richard Clay III, on
Feb. 15, 1994. The family lives in
Lexington, Va.

Mr. © Mrs. Richard S§. Gatti
III ’85, ason, Matthew Joseph, on
Feb. 4, 1994. He joins two sisters,
Meagan and Erin. The family lives
in Rockville, Md., where Gatti is an
assistant controller of the Hecht Co.,
a division of May Department
Stores.

Mr. @ Mrs. David H. Jones
*85, ason, Roberto David, on
February 8, 1994. The family lives
in Edinburg, Texas, where Jones
recently started his own law firm.

Mr. @ Mrs. R. William
Metzger Jr. ’85, ason, Chris-
topher Hill, on April 26, 1994. The
family lives in Columbia, S.C.

Mr. © Mrs. Carl N. Lauer
’85L, a daughter, Elizabeth, on

Dec. 31, 1993. The family lives in
Fredericksburg, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Dana J. Bolton
‘86, a daughter, Rebecca Leigh, on
March 29, 1993. The family lives in
Upper Montclair, N.J.

Mr. @ Mrs. Kenneth L.
Lindeman ’86, a daughter, Emily
Claire, on Sept. 9, 1993. The family
lives in Hickory, N.C.

Mr. © Mrs. Daniel N. Reeder
*86, ason, Mitchell Trent, on April
18, 1994. The family lives in
Cumming, Ga.

Mr. © Mrs. Bruin 8.
Richardson ’86, a daughter,
Emma Scott, on March 11, 1994, in
Richmond. The family lives in
Richmond, where Richardson is an
attorney with the law firm of
Hunton & Williams. Proud grandfa-
ther is Dick Sessoms, director of
major gifts at W&L.

Mr. © Mrs. Alan G.
Scarisbrick ’87, ason, David
Edwin, on Sept. 10, 1993. The fami-
ly lives in Dallas, where Scarisbrick
is a second vice president in
Municipal Finance at Smith Barney
Shearson.

Mr. © Mrs. Powell H. Smith
°87, a daughter, Ellen Virginia
(“Gingy”), on Aug. 10, 1993. The
family lives in Atlanta, where Smith
works for Lotus Development Corp.
and is a product manager for Ami
Pro.

Mrs. Sarah Y. Moncure Kirby
’87L and her husband, Ken, a son,
Hughston Crowder, on April 25,
1994. The family lives in Richmond.
Proud grandmother is Peggy
Moncure ’89L.

Mr. © Mrs. James D. Cockey
’88, a daughter, Katherine
Elizabeth, on Oct. 28, 1993. The
family lives in Roanoke, where
Cockey is a commercial banker with
NationsBank.

Mr. © Mrs. S. Maverick Noble
*88, ason, Samuel Maverick Jr., on
Oct. 26, 1993. The family lives in
San Antonio, Texas.

Mr. @ Mrs. Burgess A.
Thomasson Jr. ’89, ason, Ryan
Burgess, on Jan. 17, 1994. The
family lives in Mobile, Ala.

Mr. © Mrs. Paul H. Gilbert
°90, a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth,
on April 6, 1994. The family lives in
Washington, D.C.

Mr. N. Burke Howell ’90 @
Mrs. Leigh Anne Netterville
Howell ’90, a daughter, Courtney
Taylor, on March 11, 1994. The
family lives in Winston-Salem, N.C.,

where Burke is in his second year at
Bowman Gray School of Medicine.

Mrs. Laura C. Taylor ’91

and her husband, a son, W.A.
Drewry, on Dec. 8, 1993. The fami-
ly lives in Richmond, where ‘Taylor
is working on her master’s thesis at
Emory University.

Mrs. Carolyn Richardson
Guest °91L and her husband,
Thomas, a daughter, Sheridan Lee,
on Feb. 1, 1994. The family lives in
Houston, where Carolyn practices
law.

Mrs. Lee Hays Romano ’91L
and her husband, Albert, a daughter,
Arielle Hays, on Jan. 20, 1994. The
family lives in Burtonsville, Md.

in Memoriam

Thomas P. Stearns °27,

retired teacher, died Nov. 7, 1993.
He was a member of Phi Kappa
Sigma fraternity, Omicron Delta
Kappa, the Sigma Society, and the
football and baseball teams at W&L.
After graduation, Stearns worked in
the insurance business in Baltimore
for a few years before becoming a
teacher at St. Paul’s School there.
He taught history and coached foot-
ball, baseball, and basketball at the
school for several years. In 1934, he
went to work at the Salisbury School
in Connecticut for eight years. From
1942 to 1944, Stearns served in the
Marine Corps during World War II.
In 1944, he began teaching at the
Hotchkiss School in Lakeville,
Conn. He remained there until his
retirement in 1970. Stearns lived in
Bel Air, Md., at the time of his
death.

Samuel H. Franklin Jr. °29,
retired textile supervisor, died Aug.
4, 1992. After leaving W&L in 1926,
he went on to attend the University
of Kentucky. Franklin retired in
1971 as plant manager of the Red
Kap Garment Co. in Elkton, Ky. He
lived in Nashville.

Franklin R. Bigham ’30,

"33L, attorney, died April 23, 1994,
in Gettysburg, Pa. He was a mem-
ber of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity at
W&L and served as a class agent for
his law class for many years. Bigham
practiced law in Adams County, Pa.,
for 60 years and served as director of
Adams County National Bank and
its predecessor banks for more than
50 years. He was a member of the
advisory committee of the Emma G.
Musselman Foundation, a local phil-
anthropic organization.

The Rev. Charles 1. Lewis °30,
retired Presbyterian minister, died

  
  
 
    
   
   
   
    
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
    
    
    
  
   
  

Feb. 28, 1994, in Clemmons,
He was a member of Delta Up
fraternity and Phi Beta Kappa
W&L. After finishing his unde
graduate coursework after 9
years in 1930, Lewis remained
W&L another year to complete
master’s degree in English unde
Dr. Shannon. He later attended
both Union Theological Sem;
Richmond and Princeton
‘Theological Seminary in New _
Jersey. Lewis was minister at a

number of churches in Au
County, Va., Dallas, Charles To
and Petersburg, W.Va., Goldsbc
N.C., and finally, Martinsville, \
He retired in 1976, after 41 year
a Presbyterian minister, and
moved to Clemmons.

M. Philo Lindsey °30,
retired businessman, died Jan, 2
1994. After graduation, Lindsey
worked for his father in the lun

business for six years before st:
his own retail lumber business
Mobile, Ala., in 1936, which he

until 1962. In 1963, Lindsey we:
work for the Alabama Alcoholi
Beverage Control Board, and ec
ued to do so until his retiremen

f

Edward F. Pilley ’30,
retired engineer, died March 1,
1994, in Lubbock, Texas. Afte
graduation, Pilley went to work:
the Texas Highway Departmen
Waco and Lubbock for 11 year

1941, he began work as a const
engineer in Wichita Falls, Te:
He served as a civilian with the
O.S.S. and with the U.S. Army
Engineers in the Far East in 1$
and 1945. From 1946 to 1949, P
was an asphalt sales engineer
the California Texas Oil Co. in
China. In 1949, he returned to
‘Texas, and was an independent
businessman for eight years. Fr
1957 until 1968, he worked ont
Inter-American Highway in
Honduras and Panama with the
Bureau of Public Roads. After ¢
pletion of the Panama segment’
the Inter-American Highway in
1968, Pilley was transferred tot
engineering division of the Par
Canal Co. He retired in 1971
moved back to Texas, where he
lived until his death.

Beverly J. Lambert Jr. 731
Arkansas banking executive, die
May 4, 1994, in Little Rock. ‘
a member of Sigma Nu fratern
W&L. Following his time as ¢I
staff to Gov. Carl Bailey, Lamt
joined the 8th Air Force in Eng
during World War II. He was
ed five Bronze Stars for his ser '
in several campaigns, including |
Normandy. Lambert pursued a
banking career, beginning at te
Bank of Holly Grove (Ark.). He
later president of the Bank of \

 

his and First State Bank in
sett, Ark. In 1958, he was elect-
president of the Arkansas
ganker’s Association. Lambert was
initial 10-year appointee to the
mmission 0 Higher Education
” red by the Arkansas General
mbly in 1961. He was re-
inted by Gov. Bumpers. After
18 years on the board, the last two as
irman, Gov. Clinton appointed
ma bert state bank commissioner in
4 Lambert served tenures as
s bank commissioner, chair-
Commission on Higher

Memp

app?

19

Arkansa
n of the
Education, president of the

Arkansas Bankers’ Association, and
resident of the Senior Democrats

of Arkansas.

Marquard H. Braun ’33,
businessman, died Feb. 25, 1994, in
St. Louis. After graduation, Braun
began working at his family’s vine-
gar business and in the 1950s

became president of the National
Vinegar Manufacturing Co. He was
still involved in his family’s business
at the time of his death.

William S. Farmer '33,

retired officer of Louisville Trust
Go. died May 25, 1993, in Santa
Rosa, Calif. He was a member of
Phi Delta Theta fraternity and the
varsity boxing team at W&L.

Farmer worked for Louisville Trust
Co. from 1942 until 1953. He also
served in the Navy in the Pacific
theater during this time. In 1953, he
went to work for the Kingsport
(Tenn.) National Bank, where he
was president and director until
1958. He then joined First National
Bank of Montgomery, Ala., as senior
vice president and director. In 1963,
Farmer returned to the Louisville
Trust Co. as vice president. Four
years later, he was named president
of the bank. In 1972, he was
appointed vice chairman, retiring
two years later.

Leroy M. (Bill) Lee Jr. ’33,
fetired businessman, died Jan. 24,
1994, in Richmond. He was a mem-
ber of Sigma Nu fraternity at W&L.
He served in the Navy during World
War II. Lee worked for the
Corcoran-Hall Co. in Richmond as a
fegional representative for a number
of years. He then started his own
business as a manufacturer’s repre-
sentative and worked for the H.B.
Puller Co. in Richmond at the time
of his retirement in the 1970s.

Norwood E. Band ’34,
died Aug. 29, 1993. After gradua-
tion, Band attended the Princeton
Cological Seminary and received
oD. in 1937. He then served as
aaah in several churches
7 943, when he became minis-
tof the Park Congregational
urch in Philadelphia. Five years

later, Band left Philadelphia and the
ministry to found the Bayside
School in New Jersey, an indepen-
dent school with campuses in
Pleasantville and Northfield, N.J.

Hunter E. Gaylor ’34,

died March 21, 1994, in Sarasota,
Fla. He was a chemical engineer
with B.F. Goodrich Chemical Co. in
Cleveland for 35 years. He was a
member of St. Armand’s Key
Lutheran Church and served as
church treasurer for 14 years.

J. Ford Shroder °34,

died March 21, 1994, in Naples, Fla.
He was a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha fraternity, the 13 Club and
the golf team and a manager of the
track team at W&L. Shroder worked
as an industrial engineer at the
Springfield Armory in Springfield,
Mass., from 1940 to 1946. He then
moved to Dorset, Vt., and started
working in the wood-working and
building supply business, retiring in
1977. In recent years, Shroder divid-
ed his time between his homes in
Dorset and Naples.

Scott R. Walker ’34

died April 25, 1994, in Norfolk, Va.
He was a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha fraternity at W&L. Walker
was a lifelong resident of
Nassawadox, Va.

Edward J. Lambe ’35,

retired mail handler for the U.S.
Postal Service, died Feb. 25, 1994,
in Albany, N.Y. He was a chief petty
officer in the Navy during World
War II.

Donald F. Heatherington °37,
retired economist, died March 17,
1994. He was a member of Phi Beta
Kappa and the International
Relations Club and served as presi-
dent of the Commerce Club at
W&L. Heatherington received his
master’s degree from Yale
University in 1939, and for the next
two years, he taught economics,
business administration and social
sciences at Rensselear Polytechnic
Institute. From 1942 to 1948, he was
the chief economist, British
Commonwealth Division with the
United States Department of
Commerce. In 1948, he became
director of the European Division of
the National Foreign Trade
Council, a post he held until 1962.
Heatherington served as vice presi-
dent of this Council for the next five
years. In 1967 and 1968, he was the
director of the Commerce
Department’s Voluntary Balance of
Payments program. In 1968, he
became assistant director of the
Office of Foreign Direct
Investments., remaining there until
his retirement in the mid-1970s. He
lived in Hertford, N.C., at the time
of his death.

Chester F. Allen °38

died Feb. 28, 1993, in Lake Geneva,
N.Y. He was a member of Phi
Kappa Sigma fraternity at W&L.

Herbert C. Clendening °38,
retired civil engineer, died June 20,
1993. He was a member of Kappa
Alpha Order during his years at
W&L. Clendening left W&L in
1937 and went on to receive his
degree from West Point in 1941. He
served in the Army in India during
World War II. After the war, he
taught civil engineering for three
years at West Point. In 1949,
Clendening received his master’s in
civil engineering from the California
Institute of Technology. From 1949
to 1951, he was stationed in Guam
with the Army. In 1951, Clendening
was transferred to Washington, D.C.
He resigned form the Army Corps of
Engineers as a major in 1954 and
became a civil engineer with the
firm of Howard Needles ‘Tamman
and Bergendoff in Kansas City, Mo.
He retired to Tucson, Ariz., in 1987.

Langdon L. Skarda ’38L,
banker, rancher, and dog breeder,
died March 8, 1994. He was a mem-
ber of Kappa Alpha Order and the
track team at W&L. He also served
as Interfraternity Council president
and president of the freshman law
class. After graduation, Skarda went
to Clovis, N.M., and practiced law
until 1942. It was during this four-
year period that he established
Llavo Estacado Kennels, where he
bred champion German shepherds.
He served in the Air Force in
Europe during World War II. Upon
his return to Clovis, Skarda left his
legal career and followed in his
father’s footsteps as a banker and a
rancher, serving as director of the
Citizen’s Bank of Clovis and was a
partner in the Clovis Cattle
Commission Co. Skarda’s name was
well-known in the dog world for his
abilities as a judge of all breeds.
Skarda judged scores of dog shows
around the country, including the
Westminster Kennel Club show.

Robert A. Brower ’39,

a Cincinnati neckwear and glove
manufacturer, died March 9, 1994.
He was circulation manager for The
Ring-tum Phi at W&L. Brower and
his brother Ned °42, headed Beau
Brummell ‘Ties, a Cincinnati compa-
ny founded by their father, for many
years. In the 1970s, while still with
Beau Brummell, Brower founded
the men’s division of Aris Isotoner
Gloves, a joint venture between Aris
and Beau Brummell. In 1981, when
Beau Brummell was sold, he began
working exclusively with the glove
company. Brower retired in 1991.
He served in the Army for four and a
half years during World War II, ris-
ing to the rank of captain in the

Army Medical Administrative
Corps.

Jack D. Head ’39L,

retired corporate attorney, died May
9, 1994, in Houston. He was a mem-
ber of Kappa Alpha Order at W&L.
From 1939 to 1953, Head was an
associate with the law firm of
Vinson and Elkins. He was a partner
from 1953 to 1958. In 1958, Head
became vice president and general
counsel of ‘Texas Eastern
‘Transmission Corp. In 1975, he was
appointed executive vice president
and general counsel. In 1979, he
became director, vice chairman and
general counsel with the corpora-
tion. From 1981 until 1990, he
served as a legal consultant, special-
izing in energy law.

John B. Pearson ’39L,
attorney, died March 5, 1994. He
began his legal career as an associate
of Charles H. Blackball in Hartford,
Conn. He served in the Navy dur-
ing World War II. Upon his return
from his service with the Atlantic
fleet, Pearson went back to practic-
ing law in Hartford. In 1965, he was
one of three lawyers who formed
the Bresnerkoff and Pearson law
office. He was last associated with
the firm of Weinstein and Wisser in
West Hartford.

H. Derrell (Doc) Dickens °40,
°47L, former attorney, died March
27, 1994, in Cherokee, Ala. He was
a member of Sigma Chi fraternity
and Phi Beta Kappa at W&L. He
received his MBA from Harvard in
1943, and served in Europe as a cap-
tain in the Army during World War
II. After the war, Dickens was an
attorney in El Dorado, Ark., for
some time before serving as counsel
for the Monsanto Chemical Co. in
Houston and in St. Louis. Dickens
later moved back to El] Dorado and
was an attorney and former chief
counsel for Lion Oil Co.

Allen T. Macaulay °41,

retired journalist, died Feb. 23,
1994, in Wayne, N.J. He was a
member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fra-
ternity at W&L. After his gradua-
tion, Macaulay served in the Army
Air Corps as a first lieutenant. He
re-entered civilian life in 1945 and
signed on with The Record, a daily
newspaper in Hackensack, N.J. A
skiing enthusiast, Macaulay contin-
ued to write the ski column from his
home in Smith Mountain Lake, Va.,
following his retirement from The
Record in 1986.

Walter B. Potter ’48,

former publisher of the Lynchburg
(Va.) newspapers, died May 10,
1994. He was a member of Kappa
Sigma fraternity, Omicron Delta
Kappa, Phi Beta Kappa and the

53

Forensic Team at W&L. He was
also editor of The Ring-tum Phi, vice
president of Phi Eta Sigma, manag-
ing editor of 7he Columns, vice presi-
dent of the Publications Board and a
member of Graham-Lee Little
Publications Board, the President’s
Advisory Committee, and the
University Town Council Commit-
tee. Potter spent a number of years
as editor and publisher of the
Culpeper (Na.) Star-Exponent before
moving to Lynchburg when that
paper merged with the Lynchburg
News @ Advance in 1978. He was co-
publisher of the Lynchburg newspa-
pers until 1980. He served in the
Army during World War II, and
retired as a colonel from the Army
Reserves. In 1966, Potter received
the George Mason Award from the
Richmond professional chapter of
Sigma Delta Chi. He was a former
president of both the National
Newspaper Association and the
Virginia Press Association.

Orville L. Hardman ’48L,
attorney, died Feb. 18, 1994, in
Parkersburg, W.Va. He was an Army
Air Corps veteran of World War II
and served as a captain and a train-
ing pilot. He was a trial lawyer in
Parkersburg and the surrounding
area from 1948 until his death.

John P. Driggs °49

died Feb. 28, 1994. He was a mem-
ber of Delta Tau Delta fraternity
and Sigma Delta Chi at W&L.
Driggs was a sergeant in the Army
during World War II.

J. William McClintock I1l ’53,
president of McClintock Farms Inc.
and a member of the Washington
and Lee Board of ‘Trustees, died
June 17, 1994, in Memphis, Tenn.
While at W&L,
he was elected
to Phi Beta
Kappa and
Omicron Delta
Kappa and
served as presi-
dent of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon
fraternity and
president of the Interfraternity
Council. McClintock was also chair-
man of the Northwest Bank, com-
missioner of the Yazoo-Mississippi
Delta Levee Board, first vice presi-
dent of the Tunica Gin Corp., and
trustee and Clerk of the Session of
the First Presbyterian Church of
‘Tunica. He was elected to the
Board of Trustees of W&L in 1988
and was past chairman of the board’s
Campus Life committee. The fami-
ly requests that memorial contribu-
tions be made to the J. William
McClintock Scholarship Fund at
Washington and Lee or to the First
Presybterian Church USA of
‘Tunica.

 

54

Rev. Edward J. (Ned)
Newbaker III ’53, retired Pres-
byterian minister, died April 10,
1994, in Greensburg, Pa. He was a
member of Delta Tau Delta frater-
nity, the wrestling team, the Glee
Club, the Christian Council, and the
Southern Collegian at W&L. New-
baker received his bachelor of divin-
ity from Pittsburgh Theological
Seminary and was a minister to
Presbyterian churches in Ligonier
and Millerstown, Pa. He served in
the Army during the Korean War.

William L. (Jack) Osborne Jr.
"53, ’56L, attorney and retired
businessman, died Oct. 27, 1992, in
Bluefield, W.Va. He was a member
of Beta Theta Pi fraternity at W&L
and was a class agent as an alumnus.
Osborne served as president of
Osborne Mining Corp. for years
before retiring to his law practice.

The Hon. J. Taylor Williams
"53L, retired District Court judge,
died March 5, 1994, in Farmville,
Va. He was a lieutenant colonel in
the U.S. Air Force. Williams served
as commonwealth’s attorney for
Cumberland County, Va., from 1954
to 1956. In 1956, he was appointed
court judge for the county. In 1978,
Williams was appointed juvenile
and domestic relations district court
judge. He retired in 1986.

Samuel B. Hicks 111 °54,
president of the Drexel Corp., died
March 11, 1994, in Shreveport, La.
He left W&L in 1952 and graduated
from the University of Oklahoma.

Lewis B. Puller Jr. °67,
Pulitzer Prize-winning author, died
May 11, 1994, in Fairfax County, Va.
He left W&L in 1964 and later grad-
uated from the College of William
and Mary. Puller then entered the
Marine Corps and was stationed in
Vietnam. After only three months,
he stepped on an enemy land mine
and lost his legs and parts of both
hands. After a long and difficult
recovery, Puller returned to William
and Mary and earned a law degree,
working for many years as a lawyer
for the Defense Department. Puller
won the Pulitzer Prize for his 1991
autobiography, Fortunate Son. He
then left the Defense Department
and went to George Mason Univer-
sity as a writer-in-residence.

F. Cary Green Jr. ’68,

director of information services with
the Department of Education, died
April 6, 1994, in McLean, Va. He
was a member of Pi Kappa Alpha
fraternity at W&L. He began his
federal career in 1971 as a computer
specialist and mathematician with
the Defense Department and
worked for several agencies, includ-
ing NASA and the Social Security

Administration, before joining the
Department of Education in 1992.

Stuart K. Denton ’69L

died Oct. 23, 1993. He was a mem-
ber of Delta Theta Phi legal frater-
nity at W&L.

Robert H. Hazell ’70

died Feb. 9, 1994, in Richmond. He
was a member of Phi Kappa Psi fra-
ternity at W&L.

Rayburn R. Hammond ’73,
comptroller with Mar-Mac Wire
Inc., died April 10, 1994, in
Camden, S.C. A member of Phi
Delta ‘Theta fraternity at W&L,
Hammond left the University in
1971 and received his B.S. degree
from Western Kentucky University
in 1974 and an MBA in 1976.

Sandra A. DeBoer ’77L,
attorney, died March 14, 1994, while
traveling in Spain. She was a mem-
ber of Phi Alpha Delta legal fraterni-
ty and the Women’s Law Student
Organization at W&L. After receiv-
ing her law degree, DeBoer worked
for the Legal Aid Bureau of Central
Arkansas in Little Rock. She later
worked for the Central Arkansas
Legal Services, also in Little Rock.

| 6
MM, ITT) he

 

Faculty

J. Paxton Davis Jr.,

journalist, novelist, and former pro-
fessor of journalism at W&L, died
May 27, 1994, in Fincastle, Va. He
was 69. Davis received his bache-
lor’s degree from Johns Hopkins
University in 1949 and went to work
as a reporter with the Winston-Salem
(N.C.) Journal. He also reported for
the 7win City Sentinel and the
Richmond Times-Dispatch before com-
ing to W&L in 1953 to teach jour-
nalism. He was chairman of the
department from 1968 to 1974. In
1961, he joined the Roanoke Times ©
World-News to edit the book page,
and began his popular and often
controversial columns for the editor-
ial page in 1976, which he continued

  
  
   
    
   
  
 
    
   
   
    
  
  
 
   
 
   
   

until his death. Davis published }
first novel, Two Soldiers, in 19
nine books followed, the last of |
which, A Boy No More, was Pub. —
lished in 1992. “The seriousness
and sense of purpose in his jourr |
ism classes at Washington and
produced many solid, and severa)
great, journalists, who dot newsp
pers and television stations across
the land,” Bob Fishburn Wrote in
the World-News recently. “His
humor and loyalty gained him
friends everywhere.”

Oscar Robert Strackbein,
an economist and lobbyist and <
tant professor of economics at W&
during the early 1920s, died Noy,
10, 1993, in McLean, Va. He Was 9
The Doss (Texas) native receiver
his undergraduate and MBA deg
from the University of Texas
moved to Washington, D.C., afte
his stint at W&L. He served durin
the Coolidge and Hoover admini
trations as commercial attaché jn —
Cuba and Venezuela, and in the
1950s, he founded the National
Committee on Import-Export Pe
and was a trade legislation lobbyi
on behalf of agricultural and ind
trial interests before retiring in 16

 

 

 

Friend

  
 
 
   
   
  
    
 
  
     

Elizabeth Otey Watson, ie
widow of William C. Watson "29 and
benefactor of the Watson Pavilion
for Asian Arts at Washington and — oa

Lee, died April 23, 1994, in Lynen=
burg, Va. She was 82. The Wa
married in 1947 and moved to
Lynchburg in 1965, and Mrs.

Watson became an active consulta
to the Reeves Center. The Watson —
Pavilion was dedicated last fall, and
houses the Watsons’ collection of
Oriental objects. In memory of her om
mother, who was prominent In the a
women’s suffrage movement, Mrs. a
Watson sponsored the Elizabeth
Lewis Otey lecture series, which

brings distinguished women a
speakers to the University.

 

H O M E C O

 

September 30-October 1

FIVE-STAR GENERALS’ REUNION
CLUSTER REUNION FOR THE UNDERGRADUATE AND LAW CLASSES
OF 1991, 1992, 1993, AND 1994
ALUMNI CHAPTER PRESIDENTS’ CONFERENCE

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30

9:00 A.M.: ALUMNI CHAPTER PRESIDENTS’ CONFERENCE
BEGINS

12:10 p.M.: THE JOHN RANDOLPH TUCKER LECTURE

Paul D. Carrington, the Harry R. Chadwick Senior Professor
of Law, Duke University School of Law

12:30 Pp.M.: LUNCHEON for Five-Star Generals, Alumni Board
of Directors, Law Council, Chapter Presidents, and their spouses
2:00 p.M.: HOMECOMING KEYNOTE ADDRESS

6:00 P.M.: RECEPTION FOR ALL ALUMNI Aonoring the Five-
Star Generals, Chapter Presidents, and the 1994 Homecoming
Queen Court

7:00 p.M.: FIVE-STAR GENERALS REUNION BANQUET

8:45 p.M.: CONCERT: W@L Choral Ensembles including
Jubilee, Southern Comfort, and General Admission

 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1

9:00 A.M.: ALUMNI CHAPTER PRESIDENTS’
CONFERENCE CONTINUES

11:30 A.M.: HOMECOMING PARADE THROUGH
DOWNTOWN LEXINGTON

12:30 P.M.: ALUMNI LUNCHEON

Entertainment by the Jim Caldwell Band

2:00 P.M.: FOOTBALL—GENERALS VS. RANDOLPH-
MACON Crowning of the 1994 Homecoming Queen
4:30 P.M.: ALUMNI RECEPTION

FOR MORE INFORMATION, WRITE:

HOMECOMING °94
W&L ALUMNI INC., LEXINGTON, VA 24450

 

 

W. - KA oS eee NN GG F. -O

N A. oo Shoe oe

 

 

 

Armchairs and Rockers

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed

 

in black lacquer or dark pine stain. The five-color crest of
the University is painted on the back of each chair or rocker.
They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture and are
welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas, birthdays,
graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales
of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John
Graham ‘14.

To order: Include your name, address, your tele-

 

 

phone number, and a telephone number, if known, for the

 

delivery location. Indicate chair or rocker and color. Make

BOSTON ARMCHAIR check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Please allow 6-8
Rock ER Black lacquer with weeks for delivery.

Black lacquer cherry arms

or or

MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Dark pine $250 Dark pine $250

‘T he Boston Rocker requires some assembly.
Prices include freight charges.

a

 

 

It’s not too early CO pre-
pare for winter. But let’s
do it intelligently. W&L

will explore enchanted

realms of the Virgin
Islands aboard the
beautiful 100-passenger
Nantucket Clipper. Our
focus will include the
extraordinary natural
history as well as marine
environs but also the
political and cultural
history of the Caribbean
in general. Join us for
adventure, comfort,
fellowship, and a deeper
understanding of the
many worlds of the
Caribbean.

With Edwin M. Yoder,

Professor of Journalism

 

 

“- ‘
ae @ ©
7 /

| co kinins if

_—s :
te Oe 7
” 5
ee

\
-
om FI OF
.
.
even yay enane | yy!) |
2s -
—

 

EK XPLORING THE
YACHTSMAN’S CARIBBEAN
February 11-18, 1995
$1,700 to $2,600

 

STUDY ABROAD

Office of
Special
Programs,
Washington
and Lee
University
(703)
463-8723

ALUMNI COLLEGE

7

CHINA: THE YANGZI

AND BEYOND

September 21-October 10, 1994
$5,195

 

 

 

For a new look at an

ancient world, join W&L’s
exclusive tour of China,
including a deluxe cruise
on the legendary Yangz1
River. Along with the
classic China destinations
of the Great Wall, the
Forbidden City, the terra-
cotta warriors in Xi'an, and
the colonial city of
Shanghai, we'll visit the
garden city of Suchow,
Guilin and the Li River,
and an active Han Dynasty
archaeological dig. A repeat
of our popular April jour-
ney—and a rare opportuni-
Cty to discover the vast and
enduring culture of China.
With W. Lad Sessions,
Professor of Ph itlosophy

 

.
.

‘
Ps.

c .
_
’
ar Ps >
os
Mea

Ste
~~
a

—-a..

a AS

 

——

Non-Profit Ore

xe

a” ¢ Mee

s

a

te)
Siren tigen \

—
—

i eoraeatii

a
‘i
_s

The Washington and Lee University

AZINE

UMNI MAG

AL

Ou eel ee ee

AT

<< Ff 7 IA
manele "AS Py: r f Vs

LEYBURN LIBRARY

 

