 

 

 

.—>.

\ j
ss ORIYES
UASNGT OW
Fe INGO

ities

wv
tx
-_
a
- i
ae

*
ae

   

/

:

THE LENEBST CENTER
De@"D IC ATION

 

 

 

here is something intense
about the few days surrounding
graduation at Washington and
Lee. Faced with the realization

that they are about to leave Lexing-
ton—permanently—seniors desperately
try to pack four years of activities into
the space of about 72 hours. ‘They
forfeit sleep in order to have long
conversations with classmates; they
make spontaneous last trips to Goshen
Pass and Panther Falls; and they stroll
along the Colonnade, stopping to gaze
wistfully at Lee Chapel and Washing-
ton Hall, as if to burn a photographic
image in their minds. ‘These, after all,
are the memories that must sustain
them in the months ahead—at least
until they can return for a Homecom-
ing, or a Christmas party weekend, ora
Fancy Dress Ball. ‘They know, too, that
as the years pass and responsibilities
mount, such visits will become less and
less frequent.

In his baccalaureate address this
year, Robert Shaw asked the seniors,

“Do you gulp at the near-certainty that
you never again will live in a place of
equal architectural beauty?” No doubt
the students recognized, too, that they
will probably never again live in such a
community of trust, friendliness, and
civility; where people treat others with
such respect; where honesty and truth-
fulness have so much value. ‘There is,
certainly, no place like Washington
and Lee.

‘These are some of my thoughts as
I plan my own departure. ‘This issue of
the magazine will be my last, as I leave
to take up residence in Madison, Wis.
It’s been a real privilege to work for this
special institution, and I’m grateful for
the associations I’ve formed with many
of its alumni. Like the graduating
seniors, I will miss this place—and, in
particular, I will miss a wonderful
group of colleagues. I extend all good
wishes to Mike Stachura, 86, my
talented successor, and I look forward
to keeping up with W&L through the
pages of the magazine.

—A.B.C.

ae lS ii li a Pe de

 

 

tli i Ain | be hs , a
A i i he

 

 

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

 

ANNE COUuLLING, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

DENISE KUHN, Designer

JoeL SMITH JrR., Class Notes Editor
PATRICK HINELY, Photographer
MICHAEL STACHURA, Sports Editor
WILLIAM Cocke IV, Contributing Editor

EVAN ATKINS, Contributing Editor

Published four times a year in April, July,
October, and December by Washington and Lee
Untversity, Lexington, Virginia 24450. All
communications and POD Forms 3579 should
be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va.24450,(703)463-8464. Third-
class postage paid at Cincinnati, Ohio 45214.
Signed articles reflect the views of their authors
and not necessarily those of the editorial staff or
the University.

! ype for this magazine was set using equipment
provided through the generosity of Mary Moody
Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

 

 

CONTENTS

VOLUME 66, NUMBER 2, SUMMER 1991

FEATURES

2
5

13

14
18
38

39

GAZETTE

22
24
27
32
33

Letters to the Editor
A Celebration of the Arts

After years of planning and waiting, the Lenfest Center for the Arts was finally dedicated in a gala
ceremony in May.

Disappearing Diplomas
Though the ink had vanished from their sheepskin, the recipients of bachelor’s and law degrees seemed
to have a fine time during the 1991 commencement ceremonies.

Telford Professorship Established

WEL has created a new named professorship in honor and memory of Robert L. Telford, ’22.

All Day to Lexington

Decades ago, a train trip to Rockbridge County was a long and wearing experience. Charles Castner,
'52, reviews the history of the railroad in and around Lexington.

The Teachers of Tomorrow

As it faces a wave of retirements during coming years, Washington and Lee is formulating ambitious
plans to maintain the quality of its faculty.

Developing CEOs

Two alumni who are chief executive officers speak about their careers and the impact of their Washington
and Lee education.

The Generals’ Report

Washington and Lee’s athletic teams had theirvery own “championship season” in the spring of 1991.

CLASS NOTES

Alumni Notes
Marriages
Births

In Memoriam

Reunions 43
Hallof Fame 52
New appointments 52
The Bookshelf 53

AlumniNews

 

 

W ASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

A. Stevens Miles Jr., 51, Rector
John D. Wilson, President
Brian D. Shaw, Director of Communications

COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY
BoaRD

David M. Clinger, ’55
Robert S. Keefe, *68

Andrew H. McCutcheon, *48
Robert Mottley, *64
Elizabeth Obenshain

Frank A. Parsons, °54
Matthew W. Paxton, ’49
Sarah K. Wiant, ’78L

OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS

Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

J. Richard O’Connell, °56, ’58L
President, Baltimore, Md.

Waller T. Dudley, ’74, °79L
Vice President, A/exandria, Va.

James D. Farrar Jr., °74

Secretary and Director of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

Robert W. H. Mish III, ’76
Assistant Secretary, Lexington, Va.

Directors

Benjamin L. Bailey, ’75

Charleston, W.Va.

William M. Bowen, ’61

Hilton Head Island, S.C.

John A. Cocklereece Jr., °76, °79L
Winston-Salem, N.C.

Virginia Bumgardner Garrison, ’75L
Staunton, Va.

J. Michael Jenkins III, 64
Montgomery, Ala.

Robert S. Keefe, 68

New York, NY.

Charles T. McCord III, °63
Houston, Texas

Edward F. Meyers Jr., 61, °63L
Cleveland, Ohio

Michael G. Morgan, ’68

Stamford, Conn.

Mason T. New, *62
Richmond, Va.

Henry (Skip) Nottberg III, ’71
Kansas City, Mo.

William J. Russell Jr., °57
Maboern, Pa.

William E. Smith Jr., °63
Birmingham, Ala.

J. Frank Surface Jr., ’60
Jacksonville, Fla.

J. E. Jet) Taylor III, 84
San Diego, Calif,

Michael T. Thornton, *70, ’78L
Atlanta, Ga.

H. William Walker Jr., ’68, ’71L
Miami, Fla.

Robert K. Wittpenn, 82

West Caldwell, NJ.

 

 

2

W&L

LE Ts ae

Staying Up To Date

EDITOR:

W&L always does a great job bring-
ing me up to date with what is going on
at my a/ma mater. ‘Yhe winter 1990 issue
has not only done that, but more than
ever before has carried me back to my own
student days which began there 68
years ago. ‘The three lovely color photo-
graphs showing corners of the campus
are of course timeless. The table of
“Top 25 Liberal Arts Colleges and
Universities Ranked by Endowment/
Student” reminded me of my debt to
George Washington for the part of my
education that was paid for by proceeds
from his gift of canal stock, and made me
proud of our continuing and growing en-
dowment fund. Although my son did
not follow me to W&L, he is a professor
of theatre at Grinnell College, which
made the same list.

I wish I could have attended the
conference on “Oppositional Politics in
20th-Century China” as I lived in
China during a number of those years.
I only briefly knew James Lewis Howe
Jr., whom you memorialized, and who
carried on his father’s profession as a
college professor in China, but I was
fortunate to study chemistry under his
father at W&L, and also to be a member
of his father’s Sunday school class in the
Presbyterian Church. Unfortunately this
father-son relationship was not men-
tioned in the memorial. Dr. Howe was
one of my favorite professors.

I was glad to see that “Cy” ‘'wombly
was inducted into the Athletic Hall
of Fame. He was my favorite coach.
Among fellow swimming team members
under his coaching was Norris Smith. In
the “And Furthermore” section of WEL
was a letter from Raymond D. Smith
Jr., whose father must be Norris or
Norris’s brother. Dr. Henry Louis Smith,
their father, was president of the Univer-
sity, whom I loved and admired.

Edward F. (Ed) Pilley’s name was
listed among “Class Notes.” A dear
friend for many years, we shared the dis-
tinction of having been born in China, and
having spent some years there profes-
sionally. His experiences building roads
in Central and South America would in-
terest many of his fellow alumni.

‘Thanks for a great magazine.

Alex S. Moffett, ’27
Grinnell, lowa

Letters from the Front

TO THE W&L COMMUNITY:

I write this to all of you who have
been so incredibly supportive during my
extended stay here in southwest Asia.
Thanks. In the past eight months I have
heard from the entire extended W&L
community: students, faculty, alumni,
trustees, and President Wilson.

I am grateful but not surprised.
The sense of community that I feel now
is the same sense of community I felt as
a 16-year-old high school junior on my
first visit to Washington and Lee. I fell
in love with the majesty of the campus
and by the time I graduated I'd fallen in
love with the institution and the people
that made W&L such a great place.

‘Though I am 8,000 miles away the
W&L community tracked me down to
let me know I am in their thoughts
and prayers and that the community is
proud of me. Iam touched. ‘Thank you.

Capt. Ty Seidule, 84
U.S. Army

EDITOR:

I received the latest edition of the
alumni magazine today while on board
the USS Okinawa. My unit, the 13th
Marine Expeditionary Unit, has been
deployed since June 20 and in the Desert
Shield/Desert Storm operations area
since early September. ‘Today was only
our third mail call in the last 30 days, and
news from W&L was definitely welcome.

I have been following the letters to
the editor in the last two issues with
some interest. W&L to me will always
be frozen in place on my graduation day.
Once I left the University I never ex-
pected it to be the same, as an institution
keeps evolving while it remains locked
into my memories.

What does concern me is that one of
the most important aspects of the lives of
George Washington and Robert E. Lee
is leaving W&L with almost no notice—
the concept of the citizen-soldier. ‘The
departure of Army ROTC from W&L
will only broaden the gap between the
W&L “experience” and the ideals of
Washington and Lee. We already have a
generation of leaders with almost no
experience in the military. Now we will
have successive classes of W&L gradu-
ates with no exposure to the military
other than that of VMI cadets. The

military virtues of “duty, honor, and
country” that guided the lives of Lee and
Washington will be replaced by “market
share and bottom line.”

The real point of this letter, however,
is to ask a question that has bothered me
ever since freshman orientation. How
does the 100 shares of James River Co.
stock still benefit the W&L endowment?
[ thought that the James River Co. existed
to build a canal system through the Blue
Ridge—a canal system that has been in
ruins for 100 years. I’d be curious to find
out the history of those 100 shares.

Maj. Marshall K. Snyder ,’77
FPO, San Francisco, Calif.

Editor’s note: It is true that the James
River Co. was dissolved many years ago.
The officials of Washington College sold
the stock and invested the proceeds.
‘That money is still invested, and a por-
tion—only a portion—of the yearly
dividends helps pay for each W&L
student’s education. And because most
of the dividends are reinvested, the en-
dowment continues to grow and increase.

+

The Fraternity Renatssance

EDITOR:

I received my spring 1991 copy of
the alumni magazine yesterday, and the
first thing that caught my eye, of course,
was the cover. ‘This cover, as you know,
is a photo of a group of eight white male
students in the renovated Sigma Nu
fraternity house.

! understand that the undergraduate
school at W&L went coed in the mid-
1980s, and that the law school was forced
to go coed 10 years before under the threat
of losing its accreditation. I also under-
stand that W&L claims, at least, to recruit
minority students. With these under-
standings in mind I wondered why the
editors of the alumni magazine chose the
cover they did. I understand that frater-
nities play a major role in the life of
many undergraduate students at W&L,
but it would seem much more balanced
and a better reflection of the University
as a whole to have a cover that depicts
some women and minority students as
well. Would the alumni magazine depict
a cover of a sorority at W&L? Would it
depict a cover of the Black Law Stu-

ZPETTERS

dents Association or another minority
group? My guess is that more than likely
it would not.

I can see that inside the issue there
are photos of some minority and women
students, and that this cover corresponds
to an article about three fraternity houses
that were renovated. However, as you
well know, the cover is what everyone
sees first, and it reflects the image that
the magazine is portraying. Since W&L
supposedly has changed its image over
the past 10 years or so, I think it is part
of the responsibility of the alumni maga-
zine to reflect that change. And as an
alumna, I felt strongly enough about it
to write and let you know.

Sandra S. ‘Thurston, ’83L
Alexandria, Va.

EDITOR:

Like so many connected with the
University, I too have been caught up in
the euphoria of the restoration of the
fraternity houses. It is a much-needed
action, not only for the rehabilitation of
the physical plants, but to ensure the
dignity of the fraternity system that is
so embedded in the campus life.

I would raise two questions. 1) Be-
cause of the establishment of coeduca-
tion, will sororities already on campus, or
incoming chapters, receive equal consid-
eration? A recent college guide rather
marked W&L as still a male-dominated
campus.

And, as an added thought: 2) Will the
University police these refurbished
plants to ensure good housekeeping and
proper care? At a reunion a few years
back, I visited my own chapter house
(which will remain nameless!) and found
deplorable conditions: holes punched in
the walls, accumulated dirt, unpainted
stair treads, dirty slip covers on broken-
down sofas and chairs, etc. Proper chap-
ter management, and a good house
committee, could have stopped much of
this; not a need for massive money, but
an obvious need for massive care!

John N. Hoffman, ’33
Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.

Editor’s note: The question of facilities
for Washington and Lee’s three existing
sororities is still under discussion by the
sorority membership and by W&L’s ad-
ministration. As for the fraternities, by
late 1992 or early 1993 they must be in

compliance with the University’s Stan-
dards for Fraternities, which were adopted
in 1988. Among other things, the stan-
dards require that fraternity houses be in
excellent condition and be regularly
cleaned and maintained at all times. Each
fraternity’s alumni house corporation must
employ a resident manager who is not a
student. That individual and the
fraternity’s house corporation oversee fra-
ternity operations. In addition, the stu-
dent Inter-Fraternity Council is charged
with governing the fraternities and en-
forcing rules of conduct.

+

Remembering the Gator Bowl
EDITOR:

Congratulations on another excellent
issue. ‘The magazine seems to improve
each time it appears. Why a comparison
between the magazine and the Gator Bowl
team was made several months ago es-
capes me. It was an odious comparison
and has bugged me since it appeared.

It was my pleasure to have been
invited to the 40th Gator Bowl team
reunion last September in Lexington.
Successful W&L men from all walks of
life and from all points in the U.S. gath-
ered to recall old times. Good citizens all,
they reflect in later life the fine qualities
they exhibited on the playing fields four
decades ago.

Jack Carper, *50
Virginia Beach, Va.

+

The First Robert Shaw Concert

EDITOR:

‘The alumni magazine’s recent story
about the opening performance at the
Lenfest Center (“Gazette,” spring 1991),
and the comment of Roger Sullivan, ’92,
that singing with Robert Shaw “was defi-
nitely one of the things I will remember
most about my time at Washington and
Lee,” prompts this anecdote and letter.

I share that young man’s experience
but from a vantage point of almost a half-
century earlier.

When I was a student (class of ’43)
I sang with the W&L Glee Club. We all

Wear 3

were enthusiastic. . .probably much more
so than skilled. . .but under the leadership
of Professor Varner in an old, almost aban-
doned theatre on Main Street, we did
reasonably well. Certainly we had a good
time and we did have fun singing on
campus, at neighboring girls’ schools
throughout the state, at the National Ca-
thedral (then under construction) in
Washington, D.C., at Pine Manor College,
etc. Fred Waring was then very popular
and had a regular radio show bearing his
name and sponsored by Chesterfield
cigarettes. (I'V, of course, was still in the
future, although I had seen it demon-
strated at the 1939 World’s Fair in New
York.)

Chesterfield decided to capitalize on
the Fred Waring name and popularity by
sponsoring a national collegiate glee club
competition in the winter of 1941-42.
‘The competition was organized on a re-
gional basis with the regional winners
invited to New York to compete for the
top award.

W&L entered the contest, which
involved our recording several songs. As
I recall, our recording included, as did
our concerts, some Waring vocal arrange-
ments such as “Jeannie With ‘The Light
Brown Hair.” We won the regional con-
test and were invited to New York City
at Chesterfield’s expense for the final
competition in the spring.

We sang in Carnegie Hall (“Old”
Carnegie Hall, as we now refer to it).
That’s a fact I sometimes relate to my
friends who, knowing that I can scarcely
carry a tune now, are properly astounded.
The program that night included the
glee clubs, some six or eight as I recall,
singing as competitors. It also, however,
included the massed clubs singing under
the direction of Waring’s assistant con-
ductor with a group that he had orga-
nized named, I believe, the “Chorus of
Nations.” ‘This was a multiracial group
which emphasized, as one would expect
early in World War II, patriotic themes.

In preparation for the massed choral
songs we rehearsed in a hotel ballroom
one very hot spring day. ‘Traffic noises
could be heard through the open win-
dows. The room, filled with nervous col-
lege students, was hot and the air was foul.

Fred Waring’s assistant conductor

4 W&L

LETTERS

rehearsed us, and I recall very well the
high emotional pitch he created in all of
us with his contagious enthusiasm and
intensity. On one number, a Negro spiri-
tual, he started us singing with a conven-
tional gesture but almost immediately
dropped his hands to his sides and simply
set the gradually increasing tempo and
volume by up-and-down movements of
his upper body and shoulders.

We were enthralled and focused our
attention upon that conductor as none of
us had ever done before. It was thrilling
and so emotionally charged that all other
sights and sounds were totally ignored. It
was only when the rehearsal was con-
cluded that we realized that the assistant
conductor had during that hour or two
climbed up ona bare banquet table and had
removed his coat and tie, his shirt, and
ultimately his undershirt.

The heat, the poor acoustics of a
hotel ballroom, the traffic outdoors, and
the incongruity of a half-naked conductor
precariously standing on a folding table
didn’t really register with any of us until
the rehearsal was over and our emotions
subsided.

The assistant conductor, of course,
was Robert Shaw, then the assistant con-
ductor of Fred Waring’s “Pennsylvanians”
and later to be music director of the At-
lanta Symphony Orchestra!

Our reaction, as the current W&L
student said more recently, was that we
had had a once-in-a-lifetime experience
and one which would become a highlight
in our college-day memories.

(By the way, W&L did well and got
enthusiastic applause, but did vot win the
final award at Carnegie Hall in 1942.)

Donald E. Garretson, ’43
St. Paul, Minn.

EDITOR:

Anent the spring 1991 issue of the
alumni magazine—and with specific refer-
ence to the stories about Robert Shaw: I
quote below from a letter just written to
my granddaughter:

“While the article on page 23 is cor-
rect in stating that the Robert Shaw
Chorale was only founded in 1949, they
overlooked the fact that he was the direc-
tor of a large choral group called the Col-

legiate Chorale which was organized in
the summer (May/June) of 1942. The
Collegiate Chorale was composed of the
glee clubs of some four or five or six
different universities from around the
country. Each of the glee clubs had prac-
ticed and practiced (at least, we at W&L
did) and recorded their best pieces; then
the recordings were sent to New York (I
believe) where they were evaluated by
the principal people of a very famous
radio orchestra/dance band—the Fred
Waring organization.

“We boys of the W&L University
Glee Club had won our area first prize.
(By golly! I can remember only two of
the selections we sang—and one of those
two was the ‘Washington and Lee Swing’!
And everybody knows that.)

“Winning the competition in our
area meant that we had to go to New York
after school was out in May/June, in
order to be in the final competition. ‘That
was good fun. We practiced in the hotel
on upper Sixth Avenue (Avenue of the
Americas) as well as in the practice rooms in
Carnegie Hall. ‘The whole week we were
there getting ready for the competition,
we had to go each day (I think it was twice
a day) to a large hall where all the glee
clubs were put together in a chorale
called the Collegiate Chorale.

“The director of this group was a young
fellow and incredibly dynamic. I had
never experienced anything like that be-
fore; the enthusiasm and energy that guy
put into directing the music was beyond
anything I ever experienced either in the
W&L Glee Club or in the high school
glee club and choirs in which I had sung.

“The week was indeed memorable.
Our glee club came in second, I believe,
in the final competition; but the highlight
was the opportunity to sing in the Col-
legiate Chorale under the direction of
Robert Shaw—a young man on the way
to making a big mark in the chorale music
world. And to top it all off, the Collegiate
Chorale performed a full concert from
the stage of Carnegie Hall.

“Ever since, I have often remarked
in conversation that ‘I had the honor to
sing one time from the stage at Carnegie
Hall.’ land about 150 other guys, that is.”

Bill Searle Jr., °45
Alexandria, Va.

elebration

 

 

AS SHE STEPPED OUT
ONTO THE STAGE OF THE
LENFEST CENTER FOR THE
PERFORMING ARTS, AND
RAISED HER ARMS ‘TOWARD
THE AUDIENCE, LAUREN
ROWLAND, ’92, LOOKED EVERY
BIT THE PART OF A FIRST LADY:
REGAL, DIGNIFIED, PROUD.

And as she began to sing, “Don’t cry for
me, Argentina,” the crowd watching
the performance of Andrew Lloyd
Webber’s musical Evita seemed to
hold its collective breath.

But Rowland needn’t have wor-
ried. ‘There would be no tears during
this performance. Instead, the student
production was cause for celebration
and rejoicing—as well as a good bit of
amazement.

A year ago at this time, Washington
and Lee students were producing plays
in the 130-year-old ‘Troubadour ‘The-
atre, which was
originally built
as a shoe factory.
Today, they
have a brand-
new, state-of-
the-art facility,
which may be

OF THE

 

 

 

Gerry Lenfest, ’53, was one of the special guests at the champagne reception.

including Marguerite and Gerry
Lenfest, °53, of Huntingdon Valley,
Pa., whose gift of $3 million made the
center’s construction possible. More
than 300 other individuals, as well as
businesses and corpora-
tions, also contributed to-
ward the center, and many
of them attended the
festivities.

‘The agenda included
a performance of /vi/a and
a recital by mezzo-soprano

 

the best building
of its kind in the
country.

The Len-
fest Center has
been in use
since January,
but it was for-
mally dedicated
May 24-25. Several hundred honored
guests were on hand for the occasion,

LENFEST CENTER

FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

 

Marilyn Horne, who pre-
sented works by Handel,
Schubert, Vivaldi, and
Rossini. ‘here was also a
champagne reception and
gala banquet on Saturday
evening, and a special
dinner on Friday for major
donors. It was held in the
“black box,” or experimental theatre,
which had been transformed into a

replica of Sardi’s Restaurant in New
York. (Greeting guests at the door was
none other than Vincent Sardi him-
self, who had flown in for the occasion.)

‘The dedication ceremony occurred
Saturday evening in the Keller The-
atre, the center’s main auditorium, which
is named for Polly and Christoph Keller,
39. Roger Mudd, ’50, television news-
man and a veteran of W&L dramatics,
was master of ceremonies for the event.

Mudd said that because of the gen-
erosity of the Lenfests and the other
donors, “theatre and dance and music
will now take their long-overdue place
alongside the School of Law and the
School of Commerce and the journal-
ism department.”

The Lenfest Center shows that
Washington and Lee’s leaders and bene-
factors “believe there is more in life
than just amounting to something,”
Mudd continued; “that a life of feeling
and contemplation and expression con-

 

W&L

 

‘Celebration

OF THE

 

 

tributes as much to our society as a life
of action and acquisition.”

In his remarks, President John
D. Wilson called
the center “a house
of delight, a house
of entertainment,
where laughter and
tears, in turn, will
usher us to deeper
levels of self-under-
standing.”

But Wilson
said the center is
also “a house of criticism, a house of clear
and brave vision, where truth-telling
and truth-seeking will go on regardless
of the consequence; a house in which

TTHE LENFEST
CENTER SHOWS “THERE
IS MORE IN LIFE
THAN JUST AMOUNTING
TO SOMETHING.”

belongs the phrase each trustee of

Washington and Lee uses when he
swears to perform his duty: ‘without
fear or favor.’ ‘his

strong and red-

blooded phrase will
echo through these
halls. Without fear
or favor our artists,
both resident and
guest, will hold the
mirror up to nature
and we will see our-
selves: in our glory,
yes, and basking in the glow of human
possibility, and in our debasement, too.”
Artists, Wilson reminded the audi-
ence, “don’t live where we live. ‘They

 

live in the open land that lies between
our ideals and our pedestrian perfor-
mance. ‘They live in the gap between
our pretensions and the reality of our
daily lives. ‘They live between our pro-

fessed values and oursecret prejudices and

 

One highlight of the weekend was a concert by mezzo-soprano Marilyn Horne (above). The previous evening, New York restauranteur Vincent Sardi (left) wel omed
President Wilson and others to a special dinner in the Johnson Theatre. Below, spotlights shone on the Lenfest Center for the dedication festivities.

 

6

W&L

 

 

 

 

fears. And sometimes, in this very
room, they will recreate that uncom-
fortable terrain for us, whether we will
yr whether we will not.”

Even when the terrain is uncom-
fortable, however, members of the W&L
community are agreed they could
hardly ask for a more splendid facility
for the performing arts. ‘he Lenfest
Center is located on West Nelson
Street, diagonally across from Gaines
Residence Hall and adjacent to the old
[Lexington train station. Constructed
it a cost of about $10 million, the center
contains approximately 50,000 square
feet of space, making it one of the larg-
est buildings on campus. The Keller
[heatre seats 450 and has a 77-foot
wide stage; the Johnson ‘Theatre, funded
by a gift from the Christian A. Johnson
Endeavor Foundation of New York, is
in experimental space that is suitable
for many different stage and audience
onfigurations.

The center’s primary lobby its
named for the late Stan Kamen, ’49L,
who was principal agent for the William
Morris Agency. Kamen’s extensive
collection of American Western art,
which adorns the lobby, was bequeathed
to the University in 1986.

‘The Lenfest Center
is the result of years of
planning by Washington
ind Lee’s faculty, ad-
ministration, and alumni.
Stephen S. Sloan, °54,

PERFORMANCE, IN ‘THE GAP BE TWEEN OUR PRETEN-

was chairman of the com-
mittee which raised funds
for its construction and
supporting endowment.
Numerous areas in the building are
named for those who made contribu-
tions—including 122 of the Keller

l‘heatre’s 450 seats.

 

Roger Sulltvan , 92, and Lauren Rowland, ’92, as Argentina’s first couple in Evita

(Seats may be named for donors, or

for those donors wish to honor, for a gift of

$2,500. Gifts are still being accepted,

say members of the University Devel-

“ARTISTS DON'T LIVE WHERE WE LIVE.
‘THEY LIVE IN ‘THE OPEN LAND THAT LIES BETWEEN

OUR IDEALS AND OUR PEDESTRIAN

SIONS AND ‘THE REALTTY OF OUR DAILY LIVES.”

opment Office, and the funds will be
used for the center’s endowment. )
Yet as the curtain came down on

Evita. and the members of the audience

rose to their feet, all the effort, the
months of waiting, and even the con-
struction delays seemed worth it. ‘here
were no tears May 24 and 25—neither
for Argentina, nor for
Washington and Lee.

As President Wilson
recalled during the dedi-
cation, George Washing-
ton expressed a desire
two centuries ago “to pro-
mote literature in this ris-
ing empire, and toencour-
age the arts.”

With the construction
of the Lenfest Center, Wilson said,
Washington’s dream has finally been
fulfilled.

 

W&L

 

Disappearing

Diplomas

 

] 9 9 ] BY: ANNE COULLING

For decades, Washington and Lee’s law grad-
uates have carried engraved walking sticks with
bered as the | theminthecommencement procession. Last year,

however, the University lost its supplier of the
year the canes canes, and the law students marched empty-
handed. Fortunately a new source was found in
time for the 1991 graduation exercises, and the
the diplomas canes were much in evidence on May 19, when
112 law students received their degrees.
disappeared. But then there was the problem of the diplo-
mas. A few days after commencement, several of
the law school graduates noticed that the ink was disappearing from
their sheepskin diplomas. W&L is one of the few institutions in the country
that still awards authentic sheepskin; but some graduates unrolled their
diplomas only to learn that their degrees had come from a school named
“shington and Lee University.”

University Registrar D. Scott Dittman contacted the manufacturer and
before long the mystery was solved: The diplomas were too oily to hold ink, and
they would need to be replaced.

So there was no sheepskin on the morning of June 6. Instead,
403 seniors received letters from the registrar, stating for the record
that they had indeed earned bachelor’s degrees from Washington
and Lee, and that their diplomas would be shipped to them during
the summer.

The disappointment might have been sufficient to dampen
the seniors’ enthusiasm. But they seemed to have their minds
focused, instead, on their memories of the past four years. As Ray
Welder, vice president of the Executive Committee, said in his
commencementremarks, “The W&L experience is much more than
simply academics”—or even diplomas, for that matter.

“Our social calendar seems always full, with trips to Goshen
and other spots in this lovely valley,” Welder continued. “Fancy
Dress, of course, is always an unforgettable occasion. But there are
also just late nights at fraternities, at country houses, or at the Palms
[a popular Lexington restaurant]. Even ina school our size, it would
be almost impossible to count the number of leadership opportuni-
ties this campus affords us. We really do have it good here.”

Changes occurred at Washington and Lee during the class’s
four-year stay, Welder said, and he especially lamented the demise
of Lloyd’s of Lexington, the town’s only 24-hour restaurant. “One
thing that won’t change,” he added, “is the warmth and character
of Washington and Lee students.”

 

will be remem-

 

returned and

> RAP yr, {os

 

 

 

 

Welder reminded his classmates that their graduation occurred on the 47th
anniversary of D day. “All of us remember today that those soldiers, sailors,
Marines, and airmen faced great odds and terrifying dangers, but they were well
prepared. Within 11 months, there was victory in Europe.

“We graduates of course do not face the perils of June 6, 1944. But we do
face the challenges of a quickly changing world not entirely hospitable to
American interests. However, like those soldiers who went
ashore in France, we too are prepared. We have a fine education from
Washington and Lee that will stand us in good stead. As our motto states, we
are not unmindful of the future.”

One of those who fought in World War II was recognized during com-
mencement with an honorary degree. Richard L. Duchossois, *44, is the
founder and chief executive officer of Duchossois Industries Inc., which
includes automobile, railroad, electronic manufacturing, and radio and televi-
sion subsidiaries. He is also the founder and builder of Arlington Interna-
tional Racecourse Ltd. near Chicago.

Duchossois was called into the military before he could complete his
education at W&L. He served in five European campaigns and reached the
rank of major.

He received a doctor of laws degree.

 

 

Not even the disappearance of their diplomas could ruin the
enthusiasm of the 1991 graduates. One who seemed especially
happy was Sullivan Medallion winner Willard Dumas (left),
who brandished a bottle of champagne and a watergun.

W&L 9

‘Three other honorary degrees were awarded
during the ceremony, to E. Reynolds Price,
Leander J. Shaw Jr., and Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

A former Rhodes Scholar, Price is the author
of two plays, a collection of short stories, and eight
novels, including A Longand Happy Life, A Generous
Man, Love and Work, and The Surface of the Earth.
He is a graduate of Duke University, where he has
taught for many years in the English department.
He has been a frequent guest at Washington and
Lee under the auspices of the Glasgow Endow-
ment, and he has served as a senior editorial
adviser for Shenandoah, W&L’s literary magazine.

He received a doctor of letters degree.

Shaw grew up in Lexington and earned a
bachelor’s degree from West Virginia State Uni-
versity and a law degree from Howard University.
In 1979 he was appointed to the Florida First
District Court of Appeals; four years later, he was
elected to the Florida Supreme Court, which he
now serves as chief justice. He is the first black to
head any of Florida’s three government branches.

He received the doctor of laws degree.

Spencer served as president of his @/ma mater,
Davidson College, from 1968 to 1983. He was
president of Mary Baldwin College for 11 years
and has also been president of the Virginia Foun-
dation for Independent Colleges. Most recently
he interrupted his retirement to become the in-
terim president of Hollins College.

He received the degree of doctor of letters.

Also recognized during the ceremony were
several members of the class of 1991. Bernadette
M. Kempton of Linville, Va., was named valedic-
torian. Her grade-point average of 4.158 ona scale
of 4.330 was the highest ever attained by an under-
graduate. She majored in biology, was a member
of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa,
participated in W&L theatre, and received the
James Holt Starling Scholarship.

Willard L. Dumas of New Orleans and Mary
R.S. Hampson of Charleston, S.C., received the
Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medallion, awarded by
the W&L faculty to the graduating senior or se-
niors who excel “in high ideals of living, in spiritual
qualities, and in generous and disinterested ser-
vice to others.”

Dumas served on the Executive Committee
for all four years and was president his junior year.
He was also a member of the Student Activities
Board and the Student Recruitment Committee.
Hampson was head dormitory counselor and a
member of the Student Affairs Committee and
Omicron Delta Kappa. &@

10 W&L

 

 

 

 

 

The arts affirm life and define humanity, said Robert Shaw during his baccalaureate address.

T h e

day before com-

‘The speaker was Robert Shaw, music conduc-
tor emeritus and conductor laureate of the Atlanta
Symphony Orchestra. His stepson, Alexander C.
Hitz, was a member of the graduating class.

In January, Shaw had led the first concert
given in Washington and Lee’s Lenfest Center for
the Performing Arts. He said that from all accounts,
the center’s opening had created “something of a
euphoric renaissance of the arts” at Washington
and Lee. “This is an altogether awesome cause for
rejoicing,” he added.

‘The arts and human creativity, Shaw said,
“have never been more important. ‘They are not
simply skills; their concern is the intellectual, ethi-
cal, and spiritual maturity of human life. And, in a
time when popular religious and political estab-
lishments seem to have lost their visions of human
dignity—or even propriety—they are the custodians of those values which most
worthily define humanity, which most sensitively divine Divinity, and, in fact,
may prove to be the only workable program of conservation for the human race
on this planet.”

What is it about the arts that makes them so powerful? Shaw listed several
factors. ‘To begin with, he said, “the arts are the most persistent and powerful
affirmation” of life. While the Bible says “the Word was made flesh,” Shaw said,
“the reciprocal truth strikes me that it is possible for matter to become spirit:
that the arts are the ‘Flesh became word.’ ”

‘Too, Shaw said, the arts “testify to the ability of the human brain to select
and reject, to relate and combine and finally to achieve order and beauty. Are
there a billion billion ways to organize the words of the English language? But
there was a Shakespeare. Are there a trillion trillion ways to organize simulta-

mencement, the
seniors and their
families assem-
bled on the Front
Lawn for the tra-
ditional baccalau-

reate service.

neous and sequential pitches? But there was a Mozart.”

The arts are “terribly important,” Shaw continued. “Architecture, paint-
ing, sculpture, drama, music, and literature are the human attempt to reach out
across earth’s space and across generations and centuries. Somehow, this gives
the human cry a dignity and makes one’s own short life worth the while.”

Thurs-

day morning be-
fore commence-
ment is the tradi-
tional time for

the ROTC com-

But this year, as the strains of Aud/7 Lang Syne
played over the loudspeaker, the colors of the Mink
Battalion were struck for the last time.

‘The 40-year history of ROTC at Washington
and Lee came to an end in a ceremony held on the
north side of the Front Lawn near Lee Chapel.
With about 150 family members, friends, and
alumni in attendance, the last five commissions
were presented before an order was read officially
dissolving the ROTC unit.

 

 

‘The U.S. Army an-
nounced in July 1990
that it was deactivating
50 ROTC programs at
college campuses across
the country, including
Washington and Lee.
According to Lt. Col. Joel J. Snow, chairman of
W&L’s military science department, the quality of
W&L’s program was never in question; it was sim-
ply a matter of economics in an era of defense

missioning cer-
emony at Wash-

ington and Lee.

cutbacks.

President Wilson told the new officers, “My
generation had an obligation to serve. Yours does
not. You choose to do so and thus continue the
tradition of the citizen-soldier as exemplified by
Cincinnatus and George Washington.” &

 

 

 

 

Someone must seize the moral high ground during the next decade,
author and W&L trustee Tom Wolfe told graduates of the law
school during their commencement ceremony.

  

 

 eREEEREECeaES
he eae
eee eS, y,

 

ous
4

ry +
Re aoe ;
tM 4

7 3

 

 

 

Continuing the tradition of George Washington and Cincinnatus, the last group of WL officers recetved
their ROTC commissions during a ceremony before the graduation exercises.

And for the second year in a row, rain forced the
law school’s commencement exercises inside, to
the Warner Center.

‘The keynote speaker for the occasion was
‘Tom Wolfe, ’51,a Washington and Lee trustee and
author of The Right Stuffand The Bonfire of the Vanities.

While the 1980s were a period of “money
fever,” Wolfe said, the 1990s will be an era of “moral
fever’—“an era in which the issues of morality and
ethics will dominate our thinking, no matter what
field or career we're in.” ‘The change has come
about, Wolfe added, because of America’s unprec-
edented affluence and the defeat of Communism.
“Nevertheless,” he said, “we are facing a situation
in which the moral ground is terribly unsure. We
have swept aside so many standards so rapidly that we don’t know where
we stand.”

He added, “Someone is going to seize the moral high ground within the
next 10 years. It is incumbent upon all of us to examine our own values, the
values of ourcommunities and our families, even the values ofa great institution
like Washington and Lee. As lawyers, that is going to be your greatest challenge.
It is also going to be your greatest opportunity.”

During the commencement ceremony, Rebecca A. Womeldorf of
Hendersonville, Tenn., received the John W. Davis Prize for Law for compiling
the highest cumulative grade-point average.

Ten days
before the under-
graduate com-
mencement, 112
third-year law
students received
their (somewhat

oily) diplomas.

W&L 11

 

 

 

 

Colvin Cook Coulling

 

 

 

   

Retiring
Faculty and Staff

Seven Washington and Lee professors retired at the end of the

academic year and were recognized during the undergraduate com-

 

 

  

Shillington

 

 

 

 

Stephenson

Barvitt mencement ceremony.
They are C. Westbrook Barritt, ’43, professor of romance languages;
Milton Colvin, professor of politics; Jay D. Cook Jr., 44, professor of
accounting; Sidney M.B. Coulling, ’46, professor of English; Henry
Sharp Jr., professor of mathematics; J. Keith Shillington, professor of
BARRITT holds

degrees from the
University of Vir-
ginia and joined the W&L faculty in 1952. He taught
Spanish language and literature with a concentration in

medieval and Renaissance poetry, fiction, and drama.

COLVIN isa graduate of Yale University and earned
his doctorate from the University of Heidelberg. Be-
fore coming to W&L in 1961, he taught at the Uni-
versities of Montana and Chicago and at Vanderbilt

University. He was one of three authors of the book
U.S. Occupation in Germany and Austria, 1945-48.

COOK received his master’s degree in business
administration from Wharton in 1948 and his doc-
torate from Ohio State University in 1956. He taught
at Denison University for five years before coming
to W&L in 1953, and he has held the Mamie Fox
‘Twyman Martel endowed professorship in ac-
counting since 1981.

COULLING holds degrees from the University
of North Carolina and joined W&L’s faculty in 1956
after teaching at Florida State University and the Uni-

12 W&L

chemistry; and B.S. Stephenson, 42, professor of German.

versity of Mary-
land. He served as
chairman of the
English department for eight years and was named to
the S. Blount Mason Professorship in English in 1983.

SHARP is a graduate of Vanderbilt and Duke Uni-
versities. He taught for most of his career at Emory
University and came to W&L in 1983 as the Rupert
and Lillian Radford Professor of Mathematics. He is
the author of four pre-calculus textbooks.

SHILLINGTON holds degrees from Iowa State
and Cornell Universities. He came to Washington and
Lee in 1953 after a year of teaching at Amherst College.
He has taught summer courses at the Universities of
Wisconsin and Virginia and is the author of his own
organic laboratory manual.

STEPHENSON isa graduate of the University of
Minnesota. He has been a member of Washington and
Lee’s faculty since 1946 and became head of the Ger-
man department in 1976. In 1949 he founded W&L’s
Concert Guild, which is now the centerpiece of the
University’s music program.

 

 

 

Washington and Lee
has established a named
professorship in memory and
honor of Robert L. ‘Telford,
‘22. whose estate plan will
annually sup-
port the faculty
chair.

During
his lifetime
Telford cre-
ated the Tel-
ford Founda-
tion to benefit
12 charitable

 

organizations,

including Washington and Lee. When
he died in May 1989, he provided that
W&L receive a perpetual 10 percent share
of the foundation’s annual distribution. At
the time of his death, the University’s proportion
of the foundation’s assets was $2 million.

The ‘Telford gift brings to 14 the number of named en-
dowed professorships the University offers. Financial support
for professorships provides salaries for those named to the
chairs and helps fund their research and travel.

‘The foundation’s grant will also be used to continue the
‘Telford Lecture Series. Since Robert Telford established it in
1984, the lecture series has brought numerous distinguished
visitors to the campus to speak on topics in medicine, the
sciences, business, politics, and journalism.

Depending on the size of the annual distributions, the
‘Telford Foundation may support other
academic initiatives at Washington and
Lee, as well. This past May, for instance,
the grant made possible a concert by
the Roanoke Symphony Orchestra and
Roanoke Valley Choral Society, which
performed Carl Orff's Carmina Burana in
the Lenfest Center.

“Washington and Lee is indeed
grateful for this wonderful gift,” says John W. Elrod, vice
President for academic affairs and dean of the College (of
arts and sciences) at W&L. “Mr. ‘Telford’s generosity will have
a profound impact on many different aspects of the University.

 
 
  
   
  
  
 

Lefford

essorship Endowed

Gift also benefits
lecture series

established by Telford

It will serve as a fitting memo-
rial to his life and his philan-
thropic interests.”
Telford spent a dis-
tinguished career in engi-
neering and
eventually be-
came chairman
of the Mason &
Hanger-Silas
Mason Co. He
came to Wash-
ington and Lee
in 1918 and be-
came a member
of Phi Kappa
Sigma fraternity. He left Lexington
two years later and went to work for the
Mason Cos. As a young engineer, he worked
on the construction of New York’s East River
subway tunnels, the foundations for the New Jer-
sey tower of the George Washington Bridge, and
the Lincoln tunnel beneath the Hudson River. He was in
charge of construction projects on the Grand Coulee Dam, the
world’s largest masonry structure.

Later he was manager of construction at Radford Ordnance
Works in Virginia and then manager of design, construction, and
operation of the Louisiana Ordnance Works in Shreveport.

He became president of the Mason & Hanger-Silas Mason
Co. in 1975 and chairman of the board a year later. He retired in
1987. ‘Telford was president, chairman, and a major benefactor
of Community Hospital in Naples, where he lived for many
years with his wife, Marie Kuntz ‘Telford.
She died in 1982.

Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of psy-
chology, has been named to the ‘Telford
Professorship. A graduate of Baylor Uni-
versity and Carnegie ‘Tech, Jarrard joined
W&L’s faculty in 1959. For the past 20
years, he has received continuous fund-
ing from the National Science Founda-
tion for his groundbreaking research on the brain. In 1987 he
was one of 13 faculty members from public and private colleges
and universities in Virginia to receive an Outstanding Faculty
Award from the Virginia Council of Higher Education.

 

W&L 13

| Day to Lexington

 

 

 

  

BY CHARLES H. CASTNER, ’52

It happened on weekdays, usually late mornings.
First, there was the scream of a whistle, followed by com-
bined whoosh-whoosh and rumbling sounds that rattled
windows on the north side of Washington, ‘Tucker, and Howe
Halls and McCormick Library. ‘Che whooshes increased in
tempo as the commotion grew louder.

Prof. Rowland Nelson, in freshman English, ignored
the racket and kept on teaching; Prof. B.S. (Steve) Stephenson,
analyzing a passage in a Brahms symphony for a music appre-
ciation class, lifted the needle momentarily from the LP,
then resumed his analysis; uninitiated freshmen, especially in
September, exchanged puzzled looks. “Oh, it’s just the
lhe old train,

7” “ww

‘Virginia Creeper,’ ” came the calming reply.
y know.”

‘The sounds in question, remembered by those at the
University three or more decades ago, were made by Lexington’s
then-remaining train, huffing its way upgrade on tracks that
skirted the W&L and VMI campuses. A “mixed” or
combination freight-passenger run of the Chesa-
peake & Ohio(C&O), the train plied a 21-
mile route, daily except Sundays,
between Lexington and Bal-
cony Falls, Va. Con-
nections were
made at the
latter point
with C&O’s
James River
line, which ran
from Richmond
west through
Lynchburg to
Clifton Forge.

Forty
years ago, one
could leave
Lynchburg at
sunup (6:45
a.m., C&O time) on a two-car gas-electric-powered local train
on its way to Clifton Forge. ‘Iwo hours later, at 8:45 a.m., one
clambered off the local onto the bare platforms at Balcony
Falls. On the next track sat a hulking relic of a passenger

14 W&L

When another way to Lexington was aboard
a train called the ‘Virginia Creeper’!

coach that brought up the rear of the Lexington Branch train. |
Ahead, between the coach and steam locomotive, were a

 

caboose and a dozen or so freight cars.
If the rider were lucky—and by 1951 few were such
riders—he or she, accompanied by a collection of boxes in

 

the car’s baggage compartment and the boxcars ahead, could

  
  
     
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

be in downtown Lexington by late morning. ‘The pace was
measured by how many stops were made en route, to pick

Buena Vista or
ton. The

up or set off cars at mills in Glasgow or
at a business or two in East Lexing-
morning trip was also uphill, albeit a
gentle rise from 723 feet
above sea level at Balcony
Falls to 1,038 feet
at Lexington.

ep
-_
al

al
sa
oo Lie
: :
.
i

————

   

At East Lexington, the train reversed itself on a track
configuration called a “wye.” Then, whistling and shoving for
all it was worth, the little 2-8-0-type steam engine pushed the
entire train up the steep, curving grade out of the Maury River

 

 

 

 

valley, past the VMI
and W&L campuses
and toastopatthe brick
depot just off Nelson
Street. The reversing
was necessary because
there was noturntable,
either at East Lexing-
ton or Lexington, and so that the engine would lead for the
afternoon’s return to Balcony Falls. By the late 1940s, C&O
allowed the Lexington-bound run an hour and a half. A good
three hours was provided in the schedule for the “down” or
return trip to Balcony. Figure on the better part of a day for
the entire circuit, up and back!

Heaven only knows how or when the
Creeper name originated. In his book S/ow
Train to Yesterday, the late Archie Robertson

observed that a “local on the C&O was known,

with simple accuracy, as the “Virginia Creeper.’ ”

He referred, of course, to the Lexington
train, which set no speed records on its
leisurely trips in and out of Rockbridge
County—a fact confirmed by townsfolk
and old grads alike. Neither did a sister
train, dispatched by the Baltimore & Ohio
(B&O) from Harrisonburg and Staunton
into Lexington. That train, discontinued
by B&O in 1941, also conveyed freight
and passengers in one consist and was
similarly known as the “Creeper.”

By 1951, few gave the surviving
Creeper more than a cursory notice, at best;
it remained a curiosity from somebody else’s past. And yet, the
old train served as a reminder of communications and transport
history in the middle Shenandoah Valley, of an age that pre-
ceded fiber optics and telecommunications, jet aircraft and

 

 

By 1929,
autos

and trucks
clustered
in front
of the
Lexington
depot.

interstate highways.
‘The Creeper assured
us that, yes, there
once was another
way in and out of
Lexington.

Lexington’s
“railroad years” could
be said to have spanned roughly the six decades from the 1880s
to about 1940. Back then, the community was served by not
one but two railroads, B&O and C&O, and musty old time-
tables cite some 10 or 12 passenger runs (plus a couple of
freights) chuffing in and out of town. My, how the windows
along the back campus must have rattled! ‘Iwo other rail lines
entered Rockbridge County, as well. In nearby Buena Vista
ran the Norfolk & Western’s (N&W) Shenandoah Valley
line, while a C&O midwest—Richmond line sliced through the
northeast tip of the county, near Goshen. Still, for all of the
above, Lexington was not the easiest place to reach.

In Robert E. Lee’s time, the town was well nigh inac-
cessible. During his presidency at the college, the General
was occasionally asked by visitors and admirers how they
might best travel to or from Rockbridge. “Sir (or madam),” came
his oft-quoted reply, “it makes but little difference, for
whichever way you choose, you will wish you had taken the
other way.”

A forerunner of US 11, variously called the “Warriors’
Trail” or the “Pennsylvania Road,” led up and down the valley,
intersected by the east-to-west running “Wilderness ‘T’rail,”
later to be transformed into US 60. Still, by horseback or wagon
along these crude paths, there was no easy way through or
across the valley, with the Blue Ridge and Allegheny mountains
as barriers to the east and west. By 1852, a waterway trip became
possible, with completion of the James River & Kanawha canal
from Richmond via Lynchburg to Buchanan and a connect-
ing canal up the North River (the Maury) to East Lexington.
The packet boats, which began arriving in 1860, took 12 hours
or longer from Lynchburg under the best of conditions.

For decades, valley folk had heard about railroads,
hoping some day to have a line to move their grains and minerals
to northeastern markets. A branch from the B&O main line did
in fact reach Winchester, in the upper Shenandoah, in 1837,

W&L 15

Sally Mann collection

 

 

 

but another four de-
cades were to pass for
alinetoreach Lexing- [9
ton. Meanwhile, in ee.
1854, the Virginia
Central crossed the
valley from Waynes-
boro to Staunton, then

continued westward t
AVHIE
through Goshen— SHI
7 pe = -

barely in Rockbridge. ee rie

Alas, Goshen lay 23 aa ic kl
horrrendous and hilly wee ee
miles northeast of Lex-
ington. ‘To the south
another railroad—the Virginia & ‘Tennessee—came westward
into Roanoke County from Norfolk on its way to Bristol. For
the traveler, it was still all day (and then some) to Lexington!

After the Civil War, sufficient agitation in eight lower
valley counties achieved organization of the Valley Railroad,
projected to run north from Salem through Lexington to join
the B&O in Harrisonburg. Three springs later, a delegation
that included Gen. Lee traveled up to Baltimore to plead their
case for improved transportation in the valley and to solicit
funds to build their road. In a presentation before the mayor
and city council, Lee himself declared that “our route will
afford the shortest line of travel from the large and populous
north...to much of the best part of the South.” Later, in August
1870, Lee reluctantly agreed to serve as president of the Valley
RR, since he knew well the benefits it could bring to the impov-
erished Shenandoah, to Rockbridge County, and to the college.
Sadly, he died just two months after assuming that office.

Yet in late 1871 or early ’72, construction began
southward from Harrisonburg, and tracks were in place in
Staunton by the spring of 1874. Line grading proceeded
through Rockbridge, Botetourt, and Roanoke Counties and
the intended Salem junction with the Virginia and ‘Tennes-
see. Alas, the panic of 1873 delayed track building below
Staunton, and for almost a decade, the project languished.
Years later, Matthew W. Paxton Jr., °49, would write of this
era, “The long delay that followed probably sealed the doom
of Lexington as a railroad town.” Instead, a line named the
Shenandoah Valley R.R. laid tracks down the valley from
Waynesboro to a tiny junction called Big Lick, on the V&'T’s
Norfolk-Bristol main stem. Thus it was Big Lick, not Lex-
ington, that became the bustling rail hub (and later N&W
headquarters) we now know as Roanoke.

In developments almost as swift, yet another rail-
player entered the fray. “The Richmond & Allegheny,
pushing westward along the James River, began laying rail in
1880, and its trains arrived in East Lexington on Oct. 14,
1881, to give the greater Lexington area its first direct rail access
to the outside world. “Hereafter, the whistle and not the horn [of

a i bali Be Soa & aie

Kean, C@O Historical Soctety.)

1466 W&L

=
fT

}
as

 

A C&O diesel leads the Creeper across the Maury River in the spring of 1953. (Photo by J. Randolph

*
-
Hn
“ub 8 a

 

the canal boat] will
announce the arrival
and departure of
travelers to and from
our city,” exclaimed
the Gazette and Herald
on Oct. 20, 1881.

Finally the
long-simmering
project to finish the
Valley R.R. through
Lexington began to
perk. Work resumed
in the spring of 1883,
and in mid-October
of that year, the Valley’s tracks reached East Lexington and a
junction with the R&A’s new line from Balcony Falls. ‘Two
years earlier, the R&A had bridged the Maury River to place
trackage within the corporate limits of Lexington.

The News and Gazette of Oct. 25, 1883, announced
arrival.of the first passenger train down the valley, a special
bringing VMI cadets back from the Winchester Fair. A week
earlier, a work train from Staunton had brought in brick for
the new depot just off Nelson Street.

Lexington’s “railroad years” had indeed arrived, and
talk was heard of other lines coming to the area (none came!).
For the five or more decades that followed, Lexington’s
commerce and life revolved around the comings and goings
of its trains. Prime movers they were, bringing students to the
University and institute, together with business and commu-
nity travelers and visitors, conveying the mails in and out of
the county, and supporting commercial life by delivering and
transporting housewares, hardware, heating fuels, grains,
lumber, foodstuffs, and so on.

The B&O’s Valley Line advertised “double daily
service” up and down the Shenandoah, with connections on
to Baltimore, as well as an overnight Lynchburg-Lexington-
to-Baltimore sleeping car. Staunton and Roanoke were less
than two hours away; Lynchburg was just three hours distant.
Even a spill (by an engine) off the Maury River trestle in
1885 did not deter enthusiasm for the rail era!

, By 1916 C&O, which had acquired the R&A in 1890,
scheduled no less than eight passenger trains each day between
Lexington and Balcony Falls. Usually two-car affairs, each
made the 21-mile run, with four stops en route, in little over
an hour. Connections were made at Balcony Falls with trains
running to and from Richmond, Lynchburg, and Clifton Forge
on C&O’s James River Line. Many students from Richmond,
Tidewater, and Atlantic seaboard states came that way, as
did student delegations from Kentucky, Ohio, and other parts of
the Midwest.

“We took an overnight train from Louisville,” recalls
Murrel Klein, ’25. “Then we changed trains twice, at Clifton

~.

= hha

end Z ae: —

 

 

 

 

 

Forge and Balcony Falls. Yes, and I won’t forget backing into
crown from East Lexington and trudging up that long hill
from the depot to campus!”

From the Northeast and New England, other
students and families took C&O or N&W trains, which
brought them into the valley from other connecting railroads
beyond to Staunton or Buena Vista. Some even rode B&O’s
version of the Creeper, which made 10 stops on its 36-mile,
90-minute ramble from Staunton to Lexington in the early
1930s.

Parke Rouse, ’37, remembers coming that way (as did
his father and an uncle years before) from Newport News, Va.,
as a freshman in 1934. Upperclassmen waited on the Lexington
depot platform to rush him the moment he stepped off the
train. The trip from ‘Tidewater had taken all day, and Rouse
said he seldom rode the train after that, preferring to catch a
bus or drive with a friend.

‘The advent of the automobile spelled doom for
LLexington’s little trains. In the wake of World War I and creation
of a national highway system came Rockbridge’s two primary
arteries, US Highways 11 and 60, which were paved in 1927-28.
Even with the leanness of the Depression, growing numbers
of students drove automobiles to campus. ‘The area railroads
also began competing with taxis, buses, and trucks. In addition,
both the C&O and B&O lost the U.S. Mail business to the
trucking industry.

Since branch lines had less convenient service and
lower traffic flows than main trunks, they were the first to be
trimmed by cost-conscious rail carriers, as C&O and B&O
scaled back service to Lexington. Virginia’s Corporate Com-
mission permitted C&O to drop its six passenger runs in
1932 but made the railroad substitute a “mixed train service”
thereafter. B&O took like action during the 1930s, but because
operating losses on the Valley Branch had risen so high, it
undertook to abandon all service into Lexington in 1941.

Of course the main routes through the region—those
of C&O, N&W, and Southern—continued to deliver fair
numbers of students and cadets to such periphery points as
Clifton Forge, Staunton, Roanoke, or Buena Vista, where
taxis brought them and their suitcases the rest of the way to
the W&L or VMI campuses. That’s how I remember
coming to Lexington.

Meanwhile, in 1942 B&O pulled up all its rails between
East Lexington and Staunton, turning over the depot and
remaining local trackage to C&O and selling its line above
Staunton to a freight-only short line carrier. In 1954, C&O
dropped its last vestige of “passenger convenience,” the old
wooden coach that brought up the rear of its Lexington local.

Then, in the fall of 1969, days of rain in the aftermath
of Hurricane Camille washed away the Maury River trestle
and much of the riverside trackage to Buena Vista. C&O
elected not to rebuild and gave up for all time its spur into
Lexington.

‘There are no more trains to Lexington, but in scrap-
books and fading photos and in the memories of many, the
Creeper trains live on. Some vignettes: the bright yellow cars
of a turn-of-the-century version, and of a genial conductor,
Capt. W.H. Partlow (years ago, train conductors commanded
the same reverence as sea captains!), who always brought his
run into Lexington on time; dates arriving for a Fancy Dress
Ball one snowy February aboard a special run of the Creeper
(major highways having been closed by drifts); the VMI cadet
corps boarding the cars at East Lexington to move en masse
to the ‘T’ruman Inaugural in 1949; special trains taking specta-
tors from Lexington to Balcony Falls on Saturday afternoons
to watch school racing teams compete on the James River.

And there are tales of pranksters greasing the rails on
the steep grade behind campus one year, so that the Creeper
would stall on the slippery incline and arriving U.Va. athletes
would have to walk the tracks to Wilson Field and thus be
too tired to play; and of several late-night escapades, during
which “unknown parties” made off with handcars and even a
Creeper locomotive!

Physical evidence of the old trains remains, as well.
The old right-of-way along Woods Creek now leads to
student apartments, while some seven miles of road bed,
from East Lexington to Buena Vista, was given by C&O’s
parent, Chessie System Inc., to VMI in 1979 and has been
developed into a wondrous and beautiful nature trail. ‘The
old red brick depot off Nelson Street survives and is owned
by the University. Close by, the trestle which carried tracks
across US 60 now provides access from the main campus to
the new Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts.

Virginia Creeper, hail and farewell!

ABOUT THE AUTHOR

Charles B. Castner, ’52, fulfilled a life’s ambition, working
more than 25 years in the railroad industry as a public relations
officer, first for the old Louisville © Nashville R.R. and later for
CSX Transportation. Now retired, he helps process and oversee
several rail-related collections at the University of Louisville
Archives.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS:

Field Guide to the Chessie Nature Trail (Lexington: Rockbridge Area
Conservation Council, 1988). Hungerford, Edward, Story of the Baltimore ©
Ohio Railroad, 1827-1927 (New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1928). J.
Randolph Kean, ’52, “Development of the Valley Line” (unpublished
thesis, Lexington, 1952). Official Guide of the Railroads (New York:

National Railway Publication Co.). Matthew W. Paxton Jr., °49, “Bringing
the Railroad to Lexington, 1866-1883” (Rockbridge Historical Society,
1981). Robertson, Archie, S/ow Train to Yesterday (Boston: Houghton
Mifflin Corp., 1945). ‘Turner, Charles W., Chessie’s Road (Richmond:
Garrett & Massie, 1956).

The author is also grateful to Thomas W. Dixon, president of the C&O
Historical Society, and to the staff of W&L’s University Library Special
Collections for their assistance.

W&L_ 17

“DHE PREACHERS OF

How will
Washington
and Lee lure
outstanding

new faculty
to its halls?

 

18

W&L

OMOTT OW

 

 

More than half a century ago, B.S. (Steve)
Stephenson came to Washington and Lee as a
freshman. In the years since, he has left only
twice—to join the Army Air Force, and to attend
graduate school. Since 1946, he has been a mem-
ber of W&L’s German faculty. He has taught
hundreds of classes, graded thousands of exams—
and offered his friendship to scores of students.

But in June, Stephenson earned the title
“professor emeritus.” He packed up his books
and cleared out his office. After 45 years of
teaching, he retired—and his students are
convinced ‘Tucker Hall will never be the same.

Retirements are always felt on a campus
as small and intimate as Washington and Lee.
But this year the loss was especially acute. No
fewer than seven professors—five percent of the
undergraduate faculty—went into retirement. In
addition to Stephenson, they were: C. Westbrook
Barritt, 43, romance languages; Milton Colvin,
politics; Jay D. Cook Jr., °43, accounting; Sidney
M. B. Coulling, ’46, English; Henry Sharp Jr.,
mathematics; and J. Keith Shillington, chemistry.
An eighth, journalism professor Clark R.
Mollenhoff, died in March; he was to have
retired as well. (An article about these professors
appears on page 12.)

‘The offices and classrooms they left
behind now seem strangely empty. Most of
them had spent almost their entire teaching
career at Washington and Lee. ‘Together, they
represent 248 years of teaching in Lexington.

National searches have found qualified
teachers to take their place in the fall. But
troubling questions remain, nonetheless. For
these seven retiring professors will be followed—
soon—by a large number of their colleagues.
Indeed, up to a quarter of Washington and Lee’s
current faculty may conclude their careers by the
end of the century.

Unfortunately, the University is encoun-
tering a national trend in this regard: America’s
faculty is becoming “gray.” Professors who

BAe OCUh, —i— EEE

entered teaching in higher education’s boom
years after World War II are approaching retire-
ment, and no one is quite sure how many young,
dedicated, talented faculty are waiting in the
ranks to succeed them.

‘These are the sorts of worries that keep
college presidents and deans awake at night.
John W. Elrod, vice president for academic affairs
and dean of the College (of arts and sciences) at
W&L, admits he’s given it more than a passing
thought. “Right now,” he believes, “Washing-
ton and Lee faces no greater challenge.”

In addition, the University plans to
increase the size of its faculty in coming years to
lower the student-teacher ratio. ‘Today, Wash-
ington and Lee has one professor for every 12
undergraduates. In the law school, that ratio is
11 to one—one of the lowest in the nation. ‘The
University hopes those ratios can be reduced
even further, to 10 to one, to provide smaller
classes and more interaction between students
and their professors.

‘To lower the student-teacher ratio,
Washington and Lee must add new faculty
positions at the same time it is replacing retiring
faculty members. ‘That will be especially dif-
ficult in a competitive job market. How will
Washington and Lee lure outstanding new
faculty to its halls, particularly when they are
being recruited by other prestigious colleges?
To be sure, professors are attracted by many of
the same qualities that draw students from all
across the country: an attractive campus, a remark-
ably strong Honor System, a solid academic re-
putation, an environment that encourages civility
and friendliness. But more is required to con-
vince teachers to come to Washington and Lee.

First, obviously, there’s the matter of
salary. ‘Che cost of living is not as low as it once
was in Lexington, and the University must offer
compensation packages that are comparable to
those of its peer institutions. It’s a common
saying, though, that no one enters academic life

 

 

—___

SSE ETS NI A ESL SN Aa ea ELE a a a a

for the money. Prospective faculty are interested
in other benefits, too: exceptional students, in-
teresting colleagues, a fine library, modern com-
puter facilities—and, above all, the opportunity
to teach and perform research in their fields.

‘Two years ago, numerous W&L commit-
tees formulated a long-range plan to prepare the
University for the 21st century. ‘The plan ad-
dresses many different needs, but taken as a
whole it is especially designed to enhance
Washington and Lee’s teaching program. It
recommends increased funding for libraries and
computers, for instance, and the creation of
additional merit-based scholarships for under-
graduates and law students. (That suggestion
was the subject of an article titled “The Best and
the Brightest,” which appeared in the spring
1991 issue of this magazine.) ‘The plan also
identifies the need for more endowed professor-
ships and additional opportunities for faculty
research and scholarship. (Washington and Lee
currently offers only 14 endowed professor-
ships—fewer than most of its peer institutions.)

If they are implemented, these initiatives
should aid Washington and Lee enormously in
its job of recruiting new faculty. But the plans
will be expensive, and they cannot be funded by
annual fees unless tuition is raised significantly.
‘The Board of Trustees have rejected that option
and have decided they must be supported
instead by endowment, the University’s pool of
invested funds.

First of all, the University’s endowment
must be substantially enlarged to support faculty
salaries, to keep them competitive and to take
some pressure off the annual budget. Endowed
professorships also help meet faculty salaries,
since they support the compensation of those
faculty members who hold them and provide
some discretionary funding. The funds may
help them travel to scholarly meetings, perform
research during the summer months, or buy
needed pieces of equipment.

Three of the teachers who retired in
June—Professors Cook, Coulling, and Sharp—
held endowed professorships. All the other
undergraduate faculty members who hold endowed
“chairs” are in their 50s and 60s, and many of
them will no doubt retire before the end of the
century. The endowed professorships they leave
behind may be used to attract strong teachers to
replace them. (For instance, the new chairman of
the math department, John Harer, who has an
international reputation in his field, has been
named to the Rupert and Lillian Radford Pro-
fessorship. He succeeds Henry Sharp, who
retired in June.) Sometimes, though, endowed
professorships are a way for Washington and Lee
to recognize long-standing members of its faculry—
such as Leonard C. Jarrard, a teacher at W&L
since 1971, who is the first Robert L. Telford
Professor. (See story on page 13.)

In coming years, Washington and Lee
hopes to add seven more endowed professor-
ships in the undergraduate divisions and five in
the School of Law.

Professors who join Washington and Lee’s
faculty come to the University primarily to teach
and to spend time in the classroom. All of them,
however, have research and scholarly interests,
and they must be allowed the time and resources
to pursue them. “In order to be good teachers,
professors need to stay current in their fields and
build a foundation they can draw on in the
classroom,” Elrod explains.

While they are on sabbatical leave from
the University, faculty don’t receive their full
salary. And frequently, their research can’t take
place in Lexington. It must occur at the Library
of Congress, or in another university’s laboratory,
or at Oxford’s Bodleian Library. In recent years,
several alumni classes who were celebrating their
reunions made such research possible by setting
up endowment funds which support faculty
scholarship and travel. In the future, the Univer-
sity must add to these endowed funds so they

 

The
University’s
endowment
must be
substantially
enlarged to
support fac-

ulty salaries.

W&L 19

 

Research

can’ttake
place at all—
particulary
in the
sciences —
without the
proper

equipment.

20 W&L

 

will be available to more members of the faculty.

Eventually, Washington and Lee antici-
pates that all academic departments and the
School of Law will have separate endowment
funds to support special teaching and research
needs. A few of these endowments already exist.
For instance, the Philip Fullerton Howerton
Fund, named for a 1925 graduate, allows the
department of religion to bring in guest speakers
and lecturers from time to time. And the geology
department is aided by the Frank G. Young "66
Endowment.

Since 1960, many Washington and Lee
faculty have been able to pursue original
research projects with help from the Robert E.
Lee Research Program. Dr. Gustavus Benz
Capito, a member of the class of 1899, estab-
lished the program to allow faculty and students
to work side by side on research. Students who
have participated in the program have gone on to
earn advanced degrees in medicine, science, and
even law and the humanities. ‘They say the hours

they spent as undergraduates in W&L’s labora-
tories and the research methods they learned
were invaluable as they continued their educa-
tion. (The program was the subject of an article
in the Winter 1989 issue of this magazine.)

When it began more than 30 years ago,
students participated only during the school year.
But today research occurs 12 months a year, and
students live in W&L’s residence halls during
the summer while they work in the lab full time.
More and more undergraduates are clamoring to
participate every year. ‘This expansion has taxed
the program’s resources, and additional funds are
needed so that even more faculty and students
can work together on projects.

Of course, research can’t take place at
all—particularly in the sciences—without the
proper equipment. And since equipment is
extremely expensive, a separate endowment
must be created to help offset those costs. “In

(Continued on page 37)

Woosley Makes Giftfor
Professorship

Someday Washington and Lee will have another endowed professorship, thanks to

the generosity of James H. Woosley, ’42.

Before his death in January of this year, Woosley established two charitable remainder
unitrusts at Washington and Lee. The beneficiaries of the trusts will receive income during
their lifetimes, and upon their death the assets will be transferred to the University. ‘The
funds then will be used to create an endowed professorship in Woosley’s name and memory.

Woosley lived in Lake Charles, La., where he was a partner of ‘Terrell Woosley
Insurance Co. He was a member of First Baptist Church and the Rotary Club in Lake

Charles and the Sons of the Revolution.

To endow a professorship at Washington and Lee, a gift of $1 million is required.

 

 

 

 

Gazette

o
“9

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

REUNIONS

Bringing back hundreds of alumni

Springtime and a full slate of activities brought more than
700 alumni back to campus in May for the annual reunion
weekend.

A. Stevens Miles, ’51, rector of W&L’s Board of ‘Trustees,
began the weekend with an address at the traditional opening
assembly. Miles reminisced about his years at Washington and
Lee: “the distraction and glory of a Virginia fall and the splendor
of Fancy Dress Ball; the fellowship of fraternity life and the
friendliness of the students; the unspoken yet ever-present re-
spect for others and for the time-honored traditions of the honor
code; . . .the first gentle hint of spring, which inevitably led to
premature trips to Goshen Pass, where the icy water reminded us
that real spring was still several weeks away; the great relief of
finishing exams and the anticipation of summer vacation—and
then the unexpected anticipation of getting back here in the fall.”

Many changes have occurred at Washington and Lee
through the years, Miles said, but the school’s essential charac-
teristics and traditions have remained the same. “Washington
and Lee is successful today because of its strong academics; a
highly competent faculty and an excellent faculty-student rela-
tionship; a good social life; a very high level of student self-
government; and a beautiful campus. Equally important is the
quality of our students themselves,” Miles added. “They are
attractive and well-rounded.”

On Friday, the reunion schedule included tours of the
campus, an outdoor luncheon and buffet dinner, and a reception
honoring retiring members of the faculty and administration. In
addition, panel discussions which attracted a record number of

 

alumni featured past and current members of the faculty
discussing such topics as “Robert E. Lee: Soldier and Educator,”
“Understanding the Muslim Attitude,” and “Superpowers in the
New International Order.”

‘The following morning, the Law School Association and the
Alumni Association gathered for their annual joint meeting in
Lee Chapel, where five reunion classes announced that they
were making special gifts to the University.

The class of 1986 presented Washington and Lee with a sum
of $35,802, which will establish an endowed scholarship fund
in memory of two class members— Thomas J. Fellin and J.
Christopher Hunter, both of whom died while they were stu-
dents at W&L.

Meanwhile, the law class of 1981 gave $11,000, which will
create an endowed scholarship fund in the School of Law.

With a gift of $19,150, the law class of 1951 bolstered the
Williams, McDowell, and Light Scholarships in the School of Law.

On the occasion of their 25th-year reunion, the class of 1966
raised $156,670 to create a fellowship fund to support professors
who have shown “extraordinary abilities and promise as teacher-
scholars.” Each year, one or more professors will be recognized
as Class of 1966 Fellows.

Finally, the class of 1941, which was observing its 50th
reunion, made a gift of $1,527,852 to establish an endowment
supporting the University Library.

In thanking these classes for their gifts, President John D.
Wilson told the alumni they had made “another indelible mark”
on the University.

‘The reunion classes, Wilson said, possess “the vision and
imagination that lead people to see beyond themselves in time,
to be able to look beyond their own years on this planet and to
do good in the time they’ve been granted.

“These endowment gifts will be here for all the years to
come,” he added, “just as Lee’s gift continues to be here,

 

2
~~

PAGE 22/ THE

aaa

j

GAZETTE ¢

 

 

 

 

> es re,
yee NS Fer nk

“ 4 7 ” oe - Oe nee O as > .
Peg Gee I CP AG ef IA

helping this University to achieve new levels of excellence.”

‘Three W&L graduates who have made special contributions
to their a/ma mater were also recognized during the assembly.
Distinguished Alumnus Awards were presented to Edward L.
Bishop III, ’68, of Flourtown, Pa.; Alvin ‘T. Fleishman, ’41, of
Anderson, S.C.; and John W. Folsom, ’73, of Columbia, S.C.

Bishop is executive vice president of the Wall Street firm
Berkeley Investment Technology. In 1984 he led a group of
alumni investors to rebuild the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity
house, which had been destroyed by a fire. In 1988 the Phi
Gamma Delta national fraternity honored him with its Distin-
guished Fiji Award. He is president of the University’s Alumni
Fraternity Council.

Fleishman is president of Fleishman Realty Co. Inc. in
Anderson, S.C. He also teaches marketing, retailing, and busi-
ness administration at ‘Tri-County ‘Technical College. He has
served as a W&L class agent, president of the South Carolina
Piedmont alumni chapter, and chairman of class reunion commit-
tees since 1966.

Folsom is chief executive officer of South Carolina Federal
Corp. and South Carolina Federal Savings Bank. From 1984 to
1988 he was a member of the board of directors of W&L’s Alumni
Association, and he served as the association’s president in 1987-
88. He is currently president of the Washington Society, an
association of former members of the alumni board.

One of the most moving moments during the assembly
came when the Alumni Association honored W&L graduates
who served in Operation Desert Storm and Operation Desert
Shield. Eight servicemen were on hand to receive copies of a
resolution, passed by the Board of ‘Trustees in February, sup-
porting their efforts in the Persian Gulf. The crowd gave these
soldiers a standing ovation and also observed a moment of silence
in memory of Marine Capt. David R. Herr Jr., °84, who was killed
in February in a helicopter crash in Saudi Arabia.

 

Changes in leadership were announced during the assem-
bly, as well. J. Richard O’Connell, ’56, ’58L, of Baltimore
became president of the Alumni Association. Waller ‘T. Dudley,
74, °79L, of Alexandria, Va., is the new vice president.

Elected to four-year terms as directors of the association
were J. Michael Jenkins III, ’64, of Montgomery, Ala.; Henry
(Skip) Nottberg III, ’71, of Kansas City, Mo.; J.E. (Jet) Taylor
III, °84, of San Diego; H. William Walker Jr., 68, ’°71L, of Miami;
and Robert K. Wittpenn, ’82, of Peapack, N.J.

J. Hardin Marion, ’55, ’58L, of Baltimore was reelected
president of the Law School Association. Walter D. Kelley Jr.,
77, °81L, was named vice president. ‘The new directors are
Robert M. Couch, ’78, ’82L, of Birmingham, Ala.; Robin P.
Hartmann, ’71L, of Dallas; Milton ‘T. Herndon, ’56L, of
Charleston, W.Va.; Dana C. Petersen, ’82L, of Baltimore; and
David D. Redmond, ’66, ’69L, of Richmond.

‘The reunion weekend ended with an alumni Glee Club
concert in the Lenfest Center, class cocktail parties and banquets, a
fireworks display, and a concert by rock ’n ’roll bands in the
General Headquarters.

‘The Reunion Bowl was presented to the class of 1941,
which had the largest percentage (34 percent) of its members
registered for the weekend. ‘The Reunion Trophy was given to
the class of ’66 for having the greatest number of participants
registered (85 of its members were on hand for the weekend).

 

Opposite page, clockwise from far left: Burr Datz,’75, and the band Wildgrass
perform during reunions; alumni greet old friends; graduates pack the
Stemmons Plaza for a reception; Roberta Bundurant , ’86L, holds a graduate
of the future; alumni share their memories. This page, clockwise from left: Al
Orgain, ’°71L, and Jan Orgain do some fancy footwork; Hairy Collegian returns
for the reunion; reunion participants share a photograph taken years ago.

 

a

 

ote

%* THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 23 # |

 

 

 

 

Four athletes chosen for Hall of Fame

Several former Washington and Lee sports figures will be
inducted into the Athletic Hall of Fame in September.

The late H. J. (Hug) Bonino, ’36, R. W. (Dick) Boisseau,
°40, W. E. (Bill) Brumback, ’71, and Michael C. G. Neer, ’70, will
be officially inducted during

in both his junior and senior years, and also won All-America
recognition in the 100-yard freestyle during his final season.
As a freshman, Brumback won five gold medals at the 1968
College Athletic Conference championships. He led W&L to
CAC titles in 1968, 1970, and

 

a banquet Sept. 20. They
will also be recognized the fol-
lowing day at halftime during
the Generals’ football game with
the University of Alabama-
Birmingham.

A native of Hawthorne,
N.J., the 6-foot-4, 275-pound
Bonino played offensive and
defensive tackle on the W&L
football teams of 1933-35. He
was a starter on the 1934 South-
ern Conference championship
team and was named to the All-
Conference and All-State first

Brumback

1971, and in his senior season,

 

 

 

 

teams in 1935.

In wrestling, he served as
heavyweight on the dominant
W&L teams of the mid-1930s.
He helped W&L to Southern
Conference championships in
1934 and 1936 and served as
captain of the 1935 team. In his
three years on the team, W&L
lost only once in 19 dual meets.
Bonino closed his collegiate

 

Bonino

 

 

  

he was undefeated in dual-
meet competition in his
specialty—the 50-yard
freestyle.

Brumback also helped
bring W&L lacrosse into the
national spotlight. A gritty
defenseman, he helped take
the Generals from a losing
season his freshman year to a
national ranking his senior
season. He was named a First
‘Team All-South Atlantic
selection in 1970 and 1971 and
became W&L’s first athlete to
be selected twice for the All-
America First ‘Team in
lacrosse—in 1970 and in 1971.

Brumback was named the
Generals’ outstanding swim-
mer each of his four years, and
he received the ‘'wombly-
Eastman Award for teamwork
and effort his senior year. He
was named W&L’s outstand-

 

 

 

 

career by earning a spot in the

U.S. Olympic trials with his

second-place finish in the 1936 NCAA championships, held at
Washington and Lee.

Boisseau was a bruising All-America lineman for the W&L
football teams of the late 1930s.

He was recruited from his hometown of Petersburg, Va.,
where he led the high school team to a 9-1 record during his
senior year and earned accolades as the state’s top player. He
decided to attend W&L after hearing a sales pitch from Lewis F.
Powell Jr., °29, ’31L.

As captain of the W&L freshman football team in 1936,
Boisseau led the Brigadiers to a 2-1-2 record and earned fresh-
man All-State honors for himself. He entrenched his spot on the
varsity early in his sophomore year, after taking over at left tackle
for an injured player. He remained on the line throughout his
W&L career, and from that point on, he played every game.

During his junior year, Boisseau earned All-State recogni-
tion, and the following year he was named to the Associated
Press All-America team.

On Boisseau’s final W&L transcript, Dean of Students
Frank J. Gilliam wrote these words: “For four years a fine
influence on this campus.”

A native of Baltimore, Brumback was a four-year letterman
in both swimming and lacrosse. During his career, he led W&L
to a 23-10 record in the pool. He first earned All-America honors
as a sophomore, in the 50-yard freestyle. He duplicated the feat

ing freshman athlete in 1968,
and he capped off his career by
being designated W&L’s Most Valuable Athlete as a senior.

Neer transferred to W&L as a sophomore and immediately
began making an impact in the University’s athletic program. At
6-foot-7, he was a consistent basketball scorer and an uncanny
rebounder. His size also worked well in track and field, where
he broke his own high-jump records time and again.

With Neer in the lineup, W&L won College Athletic
Conference basketball titles in 1968 and 1970. ‘The Generals’
three-year record during his career was 54-19. A three-time All-
State selection, Neer finished his playing days with 1,289 points
and 1,003 rebounds. He was one of only two players in Washing-
ton and Lee history to surpass 1,000 points and 1,000 rebounds.
He is 11th on W&L’s all-time scoring list.

In track and field, Neer won CAC high-jump titles in 1968,
1969, and 1970. During his career he also captured the National
Junior AAU Meet championship, the Colonial Relays title, and
the NCAA Mid-Atlantic regional title. He earned NCAA All-
America honors in 1969 and 1970, and his school high-jump record of
6 feet, 8 inches remains in place today.

When he graduated, Neer was named W&L’s Most Valuable
Senior Athlete. He has since gone on to national success as a
college basetball coach and led his University of Rochester team
to the NCAA Division III national championship in 1990. He
was selected the 1990 Division III Coach of the Year by the
National Association of Basketball Coaches.

 

“ ee

PAGE 24/ THE

GAZETTE @ |

 

 

J

 

 

 

ee
* . aah -

sol

by Dae eps aria § Ee

\ i * & ss x
(as

ps7 2a »inenbia Sa
sia i en Map

 

wb ye ee

ee

~~ = w

= 0

we vay fe

Yi Bee

 

. oh aa See ea a ey bi

pee pat dy S

MAKING TH E PLE DGE —Members of the class of 1991 assemble ae hivelemaa to celebrate the successful —.. of the second annual senior a ae

project. This group of volunteers asked their classmates to pledge a contribution to the 1991-92 Annual Fund; more than 70 percent agreed to do so.

Professors receive honors and awards from variety of sources

Members of Washington and Lee’s faculty were recently
recognized with a number of awards.

Halford Ryan, professor of public speaking at Washington
and Lee, has received a 1991 Mednick fellowship for research
and advanced study from the Virginia Foundation for Indepen-
dent Colleges.

Ryan will use the fellowship for research into the public
rhetoric of Harry S ‘Truman. He plans to travel to the Truman
Library in Independence, Mo., where he will gather material for
an article on Truman’s inaugural address and for a book titled
Harry S Truman: The Plain Speaking President.

Ryan joined the W&L faculty in 1970. He teaches courses
in the history and criticism of American public address.

‘The Maurice L. Mednick Memorial Fund was established
in 1967, and fellowships are awarded annually to members of the
VFIC college faculties. Since its founding in 1952, the VFIC has
raised more than $55 million for its member colleges and
universities.

Pamela Simpson, professor of art history at Washington and
Lee, has been awarded a Hagley/Winterthur Arts and Industries
Fellowship for the fall of 1991.

The Hagley/Winterthur Fellowships support research in the
historical and cultural relationships between economic life and
the arts. Simpson’s award is for a one-month residency as a
visiting scholar at the Hagley Museum and Library and at
Winterthur in Delaware, where she will pursue her research on
the history of pressed metal buildings.

Simpson joined the Washington and Lee faculty in 1973.
She has done extensive research on historic architecture, espe-
cially in Lexington and Rockbridge County, and she was the co-
author with Royster Lyle of The Architecture of Historic Lexington.

Judith A. McMorrow, associate professor of law at Washing-
ton and Lee, received a Distinguished Faculty Award from the
Virginia Women Attorneys Association Foundation (VWAAF).
Julie Gregory, ’86L, a member of VWAAF, presented her with
the award during a ceremony in Lewis Hall in May.

The VWAAF established the awards this year to recognize
faculty members of Virginia law schools who have made signifi-
cant contributions to legal issues concerning women and families.
Three other professors in the state received the awards.

McMorrow joined W&L’s faculty in 1988 after teaching at
the Boston College Law School. She is a graduate of Nazareth
College and the University of Notre Dame and has served as a
clerk for Chief Justice Warren Burger of the U.S. Supreme
Court. She has also practiced law with the Washington, D.C.,
firm of Steptoe & Johnson.

In addition to these individual awards, W&L was one of 87
colleges and universities named to the 1991 John Templeton
Foundation Honor Roll for Free Enterprise ‘Teaching.

The honor roll recognizes schools that have “an institutional
commitment to traditional Western political and economic philo-
sophies.” ‘The list was compiled by the Foundation for Economic
Education in Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y., and was based on a
survey of college presidents and deans.

 

 

ne

| & THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 2 ¢& |

 

 

 

 

ODK honors
students, alumni

Omicron Delta Kappa,
the national honorary frater-
nity founded at Washington
and Lee, inducted five stu-
dents and granted honorary
membership to two alumni
during spring initiations.

Glenn O. Thornhill Jr.,
63, and Lawrence E. Honig,
70, were recognized in a cere-
mony during Alumni Weekend.

Thornhill is president of
Maid Bess Corp. in Salem, Va.,
and Honig is vice chairman of
May Department Stores Co.
in St. Louis.

Also during the ceremony,
ODK presented its second
annual Leyburn Service Awards
to two student organizations.

‘The Outing Club was
honored for its coordination of
a campus recycling program.
Also receiving an award was
the Baptist Student Union,
whose members have partici-
pated in numerous service
projects in the community.

The Leyburn awards
were established last year in
honor of James G. Leyburn,
former sociology professor and
dean of the College at Wash-
ington and Lee.

‘The awards are designed
to recognize those who dem-
onstrate the ideals that Ley-
burn exhibited. Individuals
and organizations are nomi-
nated for the honor by mem-
bers of the W&L faculty and
administration.

 

McGovern begins Mock Convention
activities

Nearly two decades ago,
a rare event occurred at Wash-
ington and Lee. The Mock
Convention got it wrong.

On the seventh ballot,
student delegates nominated
Sen. Edward Kennedy as the
Democratic candidate for
president. It was only the
second time in history that the
Mock Convention picked the
wrong Democratic nominee.
‘They should, of course, have

chosen South Dakota Sen.
George McGovern instead.
But the students orga-
nizing the 1992 event—some
of whom weren’t even born
when McGovern lost in his
run for the presidency—aren’t
about to repeat the mistakes
of their predecessors. They
invited McGovern to be the
keynote speaker for the
convention’s kickoff week-
end, which took place in May.

Washington and Lee participates in Keck Consortium

 

Several hundred stu-
dents, faculty members, and
townspeople gathered on the
lawn before Lee Chapel to
hear McGovern speak on
Friday afternoon. He told the
crowd that true American pa-
triots need to be concerned
about reducing the size of the
federal deficit, cleaning up the
environment, and finding
adequate housing for the
homeless. He said the Demo-
cratic party will succeed only
by staying true to its tradi-
tional ideals and not by imita-
ting Republicans.

He added that he will
consider running for the presi-
dency in 1992 if other suitable
Democratic candidates do not
emerge.

Several other events took
place on campus as a prelude
to the Mock Convention. A
panel discussion titled “Where
Is Bush’s Achilles Heel?”
featured Robert A. Strong,
professor of politics at W&L,
and two alumni—Landon V.
Butler Jr., 63, former assistant
chief of staff to President
Jimmy Carter, and John H.
Rutherford, 66, Washington
news editor for NBC News.
Students also heard a lecture
by Larry Sabato, professor of
politics at the University of
Virginia. Rounding out the
series of events were an out-
door barbecue, a concert by
W&L student bands, and
a performance by MTV come-
dian Pauly Shore.

‘The Mock Convention
will be held March 6-7, 1992.

 

earn Ph.D.’s in the field. “Our involvement in the Keck
Consortium has been a very positive experience for us,” says
Samuel J. Kozak, professor of geology at W&L. “Its scope makes
it one of the best research grants in the country.”

The W.M. Keck Foundation was established in 1954 by the
late William M. Keck, founder of the Superior Oil Co. The
foundation makes grants to colleges and universities throughout
the United States, with a particular emphasis on projects in the
earth sciences, engineering, and medical research.

Washington and Lee is one of 12 institutions participating
in the Keck Consortium for Geology, which now has headquar-
ters at Beloit College.

The consortium was established in 1987 to bring together
the geology faculties, students, and facilities of small liberal arts
institutions. It is funded by the W.M. Keck Foundation.

A major goal of the consortium is to bridge the gap between
coursework and research for undergraduates, since students who
are exposed to research during their college years often go on to

 

 

| « PAGE 26/THE GAZETTE

 

fe

Pe tase

 

 

OE

 

New appointments made to
administration and staff

New staff members have been named to several administra-
tive offices at Washington and Lee.

Michael L. Young has become director of security. He
succeeds Charles F. (Murph) Murray, who retired in July after 32
years at the University.

Young comes to W&L from Rollins College in Winter Park,
Fla., where he was director of campus safety. As the individual
responsible for all safety and security concerns at the 1,500-
student school, Young developed and provided programs for
students and staff in such areas as fire safety, acquaintance rape,
orientation of new students, and alcohol and drug abuse.

He served as 1990 president of the Florida Association of
Campus Safety and Security Administrators.

Young has more than 24 years of experience in the fields of
campus security and law enforcement. He has worked as a
security/training sergeant at his alma mater, the University of
Iowa, and as chief of police in Tipton, Iowa.

Dennis G. Manning has been appointed dean of freshmen
at Washington and Lee. He succeeds Kenneth P. Ruscio, ’76,
who has left the post to become associate dean of the School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics.

Manning holds bachelor’s and master’s degrees from Wake
Forest University. He most recently served as associate head-
master of Virginia’s Woodberry Forest School, where he has also
been an English teacher, dormitory master, basketball coach,
admissions officer, and director of the summer school. Before
joining the Woodberry Forest staff Manning was the administra-
tive assistant to the president of Wake Forest.

At Washington and Lee, Manning will oversee the fresh-
man orientation process and other areas related to freshman life.
In addition, he will supervise freshman and upperclass residence
life in Gaines Hall.

“Dennis and Michael are to replace two extraordinary W&L
administrators,” said Dean of Students David L. Howison in | ess
ae the appointments. "We Pe looking forward i” Clockwise from lower left: Paxton, Manning, Young, Aliff, Halloran, and
welcoming them to the W&L community and to their future Ridedil
contributions to these critical positions.”

John Stuckey is the new director of University computing.

He succeeds Thomas C. Imeson II, 61, who left Washington

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Lee last December. In addition, Nancy L. Hickam, ’90, who has served for the

Stuckey had been director of academic computing at past year as an admissions counselor, has been named assistant
Northeastern University in Boston. He holds degrees from the director of admissions at W&L.

Universities of Kansas and Michigan and has also worked at Aliff was a psychology major and a member of Lambda Chi
Carnegie-Mellon University. Alpha fraternity at W&L. He served as a dormitory counselor

William W. Paxton, ’80, has joined W&L’s development and was active in the Concert Guild, the University Chorus, the
office staff as assistant director of major gifts. Glee Club, and Omicron Delta Kappa honorary society.

He had been working for Prentiss Properties Limited Inc. Halloran, a business administration and accounting major,
as director of marketing for the company’s Atlanta office. was cochairman of W&L’s Student Recruitment Committee. He

Paxton holds a juris doctor degree from the University of Vir- was a dorm counselor, vice president of Sigma Chi fraternity, and
ginia. He is the son of Matthew W. Paxton Jr., 49, of Lexington. a member of the Student Activities Board.

“Bill’s professional experience and deep roots in Lexington Christopher C. Baradel, 91, has been named alumni staff
will serve him and the University well,” said Lex McMillan, *72, associate at W&L. He succeeds Joel P. Smith Jr., 90, who held
W&L’s executive director of development, in announcing the the post during the 1990-91 academic year.
appointment. “We are delighted to have him on the develop- Baradel majored in journalism and was on the staff of the
ment staff team.” Ring-tum Phi and Cable 9 television station. He was a member of

Robby J. Aliff, 91, and Timothy J. Halloran, ’91, are new Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity and the Student Recruitment
admissions counselors at Washington and Lee. Committee.

 

 

 

 

 

| & THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 27

wa

 

 

Alumni magazine readers surveyed

Almost 93 percent of alumni who receive WEL, The Alumni
Magazine of Washington and Lee say they read the publication.

That was the conclusion of a readership survey commis-
sioned by the communications office and conducted last winter
by an independent research firm in Lynchburg, Va. As part of
the survey, 400 randomly selected alumni received telephone

calls to ascertain their opinions and suggestions for the magazine.

Most of those questioned (72 percent) say they read the
magazine “carefully” or “very carefully,” and 44 percent look at
it just after it arrives. A majority (56 percent) read the class notes
section first, and 62 percent believe that section is the most
important part of the magazine.

Nearly nine out of 10 people questioned read the
magazine’s feature articles. The most popular topics for those
articles are, in descending order, individual alumni, academic
programs, students, and faculty. More than 90 percent of the
respondents thought the magazine’s photography and design
were “excellent” or “good,” and that the publication contributes
to a desirable image of the University.

The ‘top-speed’
social life at WEL

Washington and Lee, it
seems, has long enjoyed a repu-
tation as a social institution.

That was the impression,
anyway, of one visitor to the
University in the late 1950s.
The novelist Katherine Anne
Porter, who was the first
resident artist brought to the
campus under the auspices of
the Glasgow Endowment,
could hardly keep up with the
social pace in Lexington.

In a letter to fellow writer
Robert Penn Warren in May
1959, Porter said of Washing-
ton and Lee, “I live here in

the most charming atmo-
sphere of friendly goodness, I
love this little place, I would
like to stay here; but it is
impossible as social life goes
at top speed day in day out,
and it is simply beyond their
lovely Virginia Imaginations
how any one could be so
barbarous as to say No, or to
have a previous engagement
with nothing but a job of
writing! ‘That can always be
done tomorrow! So I must get
out, and quickly.”

(The above is from The
Letters of Katherine Anne Porter,
copyright (c) 1990 by Isabel
Bayley. It is reprinted here
with permission of Atlantic
Monthly Press.)

 

 

 

y

J. Michael Jenkins III, ’64

Montgomery, AL 36101

 

Chief Executive Officer, Director Vice President
Jenkins Brick Co. Rockland Corp.
P.O. Box 91 P.O. Box 809

 

Robert K. Wittpenn, ’82

West Caldwell, NJ 07006

 

 

 

 

 

H. William Walker Jr.,’68,’71L

Miami, FL 33131

 

 

Henry (Skip) Nottberg III,’71

Kansas City, MO 64111

 

 

 

New Members of
the Alumni Board

 

J. E. (Jet) Taylor III, ’84

Partner President Sales Associate
White & Case U.S. Engineering Co. John Burnham & Co.
200 South Biscayne Bhd. 3433 Roanoke Road 671 West Ash, Suite 1900

San Diego, CA 92101

 

 

 

—

PAGE 28/ THE GAZETTE

& |

 

 

 

SCRAPBOOK REUNION 1991 Peo TOGRAPH.S

 

 

a
* 7
- ti ii ‘iach bali .

net Se ee oe ee |

Thedlun mu

* “» .. Unwersil

Bashinglon and he ¢ Uinwe 4
? > ard

2 hnquished Alumnu Au
istingue

41

~
Givin © b leisnnart

~~"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The 1991 reunions were a time to celebrate a number of achievements. Clockwise
from top: John Folsom, Al Fleishman, and Ed Bishop receive Distinguished
Alumnus Awards; new alumni board president Dick O'Connell (right) recetves
the gavel from outgoing president John Robinson; Fleishman, ’41, accepts a
reunion award on behalf of his class; Neely Young and Don Lineback sport
another reunion prize, given to the class of ’66.

 

 

 

°,

 

 

| @& THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 29 # [|

 

on ey

 

 

Graduating Sons and Daughters of Alumni

 

 

Pree
a
si

ee
oe ae

 

Tucker M. Walsh, E. daa Walsh, 64: Rupert F. C Sickede IL Rupert F.C, ‘LicheheJr., 56; AuneB. C ulley, John O. C. te 63, Joke A.C. alle! am Robert B. Bosudll
James M. Boswell, ’57, J. Marshall Boswell Jr., ’88; John T. Dukes, Gilbert F. Dukes Jr., °56; Julian E. Gillespie III (Julian E. Gillespie Jr., 52, is deceased).

 

 

 

 

 

“eas pF i
Sta oe oats wa aa hee ”

 

Bachelor’s degree recipients standing with alumni relatives: Michael A. Brandt, Charles R. Brandt 11, ’63;J. Alexander Kell, C ‘ristopher MV. Kell, ’65; Scott C.
Kinkead, John B. Kinkead, ’53; Michael W. Danzansky, Stephen I. Danzansky, 61; Thomas E. Gottsegen, Marshall I. Gottsegen, ’61; John E. McManus, John B.
Ecker, ’28; Alex C. Hitz, Alex M. Hitz Jr.,°42; Frank B. Turner Jr., Frank B. Turner, ’61; Laura W. Dodge, Kent H. Dodge, ’59; Jeffrey C. Baucum, Charles W.
Baucum, ’61; Kendrick J. Blackwell, Worth T. Blackwell, ’69; Andrew B. Manson, R. Hunter Manson III, ’63.

 

 

 

 

at

| tani” tell a

 

Bachelor’s degree recipients standing with alumni relatives: Douglas P. Nelson, J. Prewitt Nelson Jr.,’51; John T. Buchanan, Lenox B. Buchanan Jr., ’57; John E.
Miller Ill, John E. Miller Jr., 66; C. Caldwell Hart Jr., Charles C. Hart, ’63; Carol L. Howson, Joseph P. Howson, 63; Jonathan T. Symonds and Clare E.
Chapoton, Fred B. Griffin, ’60; David A. Blank, Arthur Blank II, ’60; Allen M. Ferguson Jr., Allen M. Ferguson, 60; Charles D. Broll Jr., Charles D. Broll, 59;
Daniel S. Bevill, Rardon D. Bevill Ill, ’60; Samuel B. Tannahill Jr., Samuel B. Tannahill, ’58: R. Preston Hawkins IV, R. Preston Hawkins, ’57.

 

 

 

 

il © PAABMSI THE GAZETTE 2 |

J

 

 

Graduating Sons and Daughters of Alumni

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ , 5 | : a
; , , ) - ,
a) : , -_ P : ’ po

PO ee OC ee me f 5 ee tht Le _— , ey! ip pi BD as
Bachelor’s degree recipients with their alumni relatives: Stephanie L. McNulty, C. 8. McNulty III, ’74L, Charles S. McNulty, ’37; Virginia T. Gay, Edward J. Gay,
'61; Tara H. Perkinson, Charles A. Perkinson, ’60; Mary L. Moreland, J. Marvin Moreland Jr., ’56; Ashley M. Harris, Mike Harris, 63; Robert D. Sale, Thomas
D. Sale, 56; Andrew W. Waters, Henry J. Waters, ’51; F. Skip Sugarman, Frederick E. Wood Jr., ’66; Cary C. Baber, Edgar M. Baber, ’59; John S. Stump IV,
John §. Stump 111, °57; William B. Fitzgerald IV, William B. Fitzgerald III, ’56.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bachelor's degree recipients with their alumni relatives: Jean J. Stroman, William M. Bowen, ’61; Sarah W. Conrad, Peter G. Conrad, ’62; Brooke L. Tinley,
Sidney H. Tinley I11, ’63; S. Kelly Martone, Peter W. Martone, ’67L; Carolyn V. Smith, William B. Bagbey, ’38; Christopher L. Boone, E. Ross Kyger Ill, ’63;
Clare E. Chapoton, John E. Chapoton, ’58; Linsly M. Hunt, John W. Hunt, ’65; Elizabeth M. Baker, John W. Baker Jr., 64; M. Schuyler Rideout, Thomas P.
Rideout, ’63; Sumner Timberlake, Marshall Timberlake, ’61; Paige P. Powell, Robert H. Powell III, ’64.

Ezs «

ar

 

 

 

 

 

eal tert!

Z vali ~

 

 

 

~ v
tof
paw J oo Lad

va. 7 oe > en - Ww te on

Bs, em : ; - P
bad FPR Me OO en es a Hash,
Bachelor’s degree recipients with their alumni relatives: Henry C. Hawthorne III, Henry C. Law graduates with alumni relatives: Douglas Glenn, James
Hawthorne Jr.,’62; Anne A. Armentrout, W. Scott Armentrout, ’66L; Margaret G. Boyd, Glenn, ’63; Bradley Turner, Henry Turner Jr.,’54; Elizabeth
William C. Boyd III, ’62; Christopher G. Commander, Charles E. Commander III, ’62. Wilbourn, Richard Wilbourn , ’58; Thomas O’Brien Ill, Thomas

 

O’Brien Jr., ’58, °60L; Richard McNeer Jr., Gregory McNeer, ’56.

 

 

—| THE GAZETTE/PAGE31 ¢ |

 

 

J

 

 

‘Lhe Bookshelf

 

¥

Susan Tifft (left) and Alex Jones

 

The Patriarch: The Rise and Fall of the
Bingham Dynasty

BY ALEX S. JONES, ’68, AND SUSAN E. ‘TIFFT
(Simon & Schuster)

‘The Binghams of Louisville are to American journalism
what the Kennedys are to American politics—a family of
fabulous wealth and power whose fascinating ascent was
matched only by its devastating fall.

In 1987, New York Times reporter Alex Jones won a Pulitzer
Prize for an article about the Binghams. (That prize was the
subject of an article in the May/June 1987 issue of W@L.) Now
he and his wife, Susan E. ‘Tifft, an associate editor with 7ime
magazine, have turned that early work into a full-length book
chronicling the rise and collapse of the famous family.

‘The book “reads like fiction although no one would dare
make up such a thing as this,” says Jim Lehrer of PBS’s
“MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour.” “It has the drama that stories
about power and money always have, but it also causes that
awful wrenching and sadness that comes from knowing all of
these people were (are) real.”

Since he is a member of another prominent Southern
newspaper family, Jones’ personal experience gives him special

insight into the Bingham family. Indeed, there are so many
parallels between the two clans that Jones believes he was “fated to
cover their story.”

Bringing Down the Great Wall: Writings on
Science, Culture, and Democracyin China

BY FANG LIZHI
Edited by James H. Williams, ’80
‘Translated by James H. Williams, ’80, and others

Chinese dissident Fang Lizhi achieved fame the world over
when his country’s government accused him of helping organize
the student protests in Tiananmen Square in 1989. After the
demonstrations were crushed, he and his wife took sanctuary in
the American embassy until they were allowed to leave China a
year later.

Bringing Down the Great Wall is a collection of the speeches,
interviews, and essays of this man who attracted the wrath of the
Communist Party during a period of 30 years. They include his
criticisms of Marxism, his ideas about democracy, and his vision
for China’s future.

Williams was one of the first Washington and Lee students
to major in East Asian Studies. He now works at the energy and
resources group at the University of California at Berkeley.

One Summer Out West

BY PHILIPPE LABRO, ’58

translated from the French by
William R. Byron

(Ballantine)

 

Philippe Labro’s novel
The Foreign Student, which was
based on his first year at Wash-
ington and Lee, concludes as
the young protagonist leaves Ya
Lexington to spend his vaca- || ||
tion working in a Colorado WM
forest. One Summer Out West is i
the story of that adventure, as
the French student ventures |
forth to discover yet another
region of his adopted land.

Lu magazine says that
the book “sings of America, particularly the American West.
Ironically, an American would never have been able to write it.
It took a Frenchman who is madly in love with America.”

A prominent filmmaker and writer, Labro is the founder of
Radio Tele Luxembourg (RTL), France’s largest radio network.
He received an honorary degree from W&L in 1988.

 

Philippe Labro

 

 

| @ PAGES2/THE GAZETTE @ [Lu

 

 

 

 

 

 

Singing groups take
‘Sunshine Tour’

During their Washing-
ton’s birthday vacation, two of
Washington and Lee’s popular
singing ensembles visited
eight Southern alumni chapters.

Southern Comfort and
JubiLee performed at cocktail
receptions, luncheons, or
dinners sponsored by the
Charlotte, Jacksonville, Fort
Lauderdale, Gulf Stream,
Sarasota, Florida West Coast,
Hilton Head, and South Caro-
lina Piedmont chapters.

Accompanying the student
singers on their “Sunshine
‘Tour” were Jim Farrar Jr., ’74,
director of alumni programs;
Rob Mish, ’76, assistant direc-
tor of alumni programs; Joel
Smith, 90, alumni staff
associate; Christie Davis, ’89,
coordinator of campaign

 

events; Dick Sessoms, director
of major gifts; and Sally Sessoms.

Washington’s birthday
observed

Several chapters cele-
brated the birthday of one of
W&L’s founders, George
Washington, in February.

New England alumni
gathered for a dinner meeting,
where chapter president Mark
Favermann, 69, was the fea-
tured speaker. John Handel-
man, professor of politics at
W&L, traveled to Baltimore to
speak at a chapter luncheon.
Meanwhile, Cleveland alumni
got together at the home of
Sally and Jim Bonebrake, ’54.

Honors and awards

Atlanta alumni had
special reason to celebrate

when their organization re-
ceived the 1989-90 Large
Chapter of the Year Award in
late March. On hand to con-
gratulate the chapter member-
ship were President John
Wilson; Farris Hotchkiss, °58,
vice president for University
relations; and Farrar.

Another important award
was presented just a month
later, when Charles F. (Murph)
Murray received the annual
Lynchburg Citation from the
Lynchburg chapter. Murph
retired in July after 32 years
of directing W&L’s security.

Also attending the ban-
quet in Lynchburg were
Marita Murphy; Farrar; David
Howison, dean of students;
Frank Parsons, ’54, coordina-
tor of capital planning; Smith;
and Bill Paxton, ’80, assistant
director of major gifts.

‘Tidewater area alumni

 

| “oe

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 33

bd

 

Southern Comfort and JubiLee members participating in the “Sunshine Tour” are (kneeling) Rob Aliff, ’91, Franklin Daniels, 91, Andrew Keller, 92, Jeff Zieger,
92, Bobby Stallard, ’92; (standing) Lauren Rowland, ’92, Mason Alley, 92, Ashley Harper, 92, Greg Hinrichs, ’93, Chamie Schildt, ’91, Kevin Lydon, ’92, Alex
Hitz,’91, Betsy Griffin, ’91, Roger Sullivan, ’92, Bryant Spann, ’91, Amy Hatcher, ’91, Meriwether Nichols, ’93, Sonja Tillberg, 92, Dorian Lucas, ’93, Jonathan
Hanger, ’92, Sarah Briggs, 92, Maryanna Phipps, ’94, Jennifer Ray, 94, and Jennifer Kacmar, ’92.

ALUMNI NEWS

 

gathered in April to honor
Judges Everett Martin and
Johnny Morrison, both
members of the ’74 and °77
law classes.

Recruiting prospective
students

Numerous chapters
throughout the country helped
the admissions office recruit
students through participation
in “yield” parties.

The gatherings were de-
signed to encourage students
who had been accepted at the
University to enroll in the fall.

Sponsoring yield parties
were the Oklahoma, Northern
New Jersey, Mid-South,
Denver, and Philadelphia
chapters. Dallas alumni also
held a yield party at the home
of Claire and Dwight Emanuel-
son Jr., °84, while the Middle

 

 

 

AL UMN Nee Wes

 

‘Tennessee yield party took
place at the home of Catherine
and Clay Jackson, ’76.

Special guests

Washington and Lee
alumni, staff members, and
students were the special
guests at several chapter
meetings during the spring.

Florida West Coast alumni
turned out for a reception
with author and W&L trustee
‘Tom Wolfe, ’51, just before
he gave a lecture in ‘Tampa.

Sessoms, director of
major gifts, met with alumni
in New York City during a
cocktail reception. He also
attended a gathering of the
Westchester-F airfield chapter,
at the home of ‘lim Porterfield,
*89L, and met San Francisco
alumni at the home of Nat
Baker, ’67.

Sidney M. B. Coulling,
"46, and his wife, Mary, spoke
to alumni in New Orleans
during a March luncheon.

Farrar attended the
annual meeting of the Wash-
ington, D.C., chapter, while
Lex McMillan, ’72, executive
director of development,
greeted Ronaoke alumni during
their spring reception.

‘The Mock Convention
was the focus for a luncheon
meeting of Richmond alumni
in late April. ‘The speakers
were Farrar and three student
members of the convention
steering committee: Jamie
‘Tucker, ’92, Jay Darden, ’93,
and Elise Bryant, ’92.

Earlier in the month, the
Richmond chapter gathered
for a seminar organized by
W&L’s special programs office.
‘The seminar, titled “Robert
E. Lee: Soldier and Educa-
tor,” took place at the Museum
of the Confederacy.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Clockwise from top: SARASOTA—Gathering for the “Sunshine Tour” are David Long, W@L’s director of planned
giving, Steve LaCroix, ’75L, Diane LaCroix, and Mr. and Mrs. Clifford L. Walthers Ill, ’71,’76L; FLORIDA WEST
COAST—On hand to hear Tom Wolfe , °51 (right), are Mike Airheart, ’78, chapter president, and Matt Valaes, ’79;
CHARLOTTE—Joe Leary, ’°74, Margareta Leary, and Phifer Helms, ’74, attend the Southern Comfort/JubiLee concert;
OKLAHOMA—Greeting guest David Long (second from left) are Tom Ferguson, ’73L, Gene Melton, ’62, Millar White,
‘50, John McMurry, ’66, Guy Townley, ’68, Bill White, ’’51, and Fulton Tompkins, ’37; JACKSONVILLE—Bit/hy Ball,
69, is flanked by JubiLee members Jennifer Ray, ’94, and Maryanna Phipps, °94.

 

[ ® PAGES4/THE GAZETTE @ Lo

 

 

 

Disacctantes j

 

 

ALUMNI

NEWS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Clockwise from top: FORT LAUDERDALE—George Morgan, ’68, Jorj Morgan, chapter president Rick Woulfe, ’76L,

and Dick Radis, ’62L; LYNCHBURG—Chapter president Norwood Morrison, ’70, Charles F. (Murph) Murray, former
chapter president Tom Glass, ’49, Marita Murray, and chapter treasurer Jack Schewel, ’80; RICHMOND—New chapter
president David Constine, ’80, George Booth, ’80, John Watlington, ’72, and outgoing president Rob Brooke, ’81; NEW

YORK—{Seated) Dick Warren, ’57; chapter president Barry Dunn, ’82; alumni board member Bob Keefe, ’68, and
(standing) Charles Prioleau, ’82, Mark Hancock, ’82, Ken Lang, ’81, and John Wells, 82; ATLANTA—Edwin V. Bell,
‘84, chapter treasurer Reynolds Thompson, ’85, and Bill Brown, ’85.

 

ei |

2
~~

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 35

*
%

°

ai

 

Other chapter events

‘The Houston chapter
assembled for a quarterly lun-
cheon, and Orange County
alumni held a cocktail recep-
tion at the home of Herrick
Hanson, ’56.

Baltimore and Delmarva
alumni celebrated W&L’s
lacrosse win over Washington
College with a cookout at the
home of Marjo and Alex
Rasin, ’65.

Sporting events were
also on the minds of Chicago
alumni, who gathered in May
for their annual Kentucky
Derby party.

Members of the Chicago,
San Francisco, and Florida
West Coast chapters partici-
pated in “Old Dominion”
events with graduates of other
Virginia schools in their re-

spective areas of the country.

Alumni gathering
planned inJapan

‘Tentative plans are being
made for an alumni gathering
in Japan.

Mike Smitka, assistant
professor of economics, plans
to spend the 1991-92 academ-
ic year in Japan, and he would
like to use the occasion to
meet with W&L graduates
and former students who are
living in that country.

Smitka’s address for the
year is as follows:

Mr. Michael J. Smitka

Assistant Professor of
Economics

Rikkyo International
Residence Hall

Apt. 302

4-15-8 Nishi [Ikebukuro
‘Toshimo-Ku

‘Tokyo, Japan 171

Phone: 3985-9763

 

 

ALUMNI NEWS

 

 

 

 

'

 

  
 
  

E coke

sad

BB auwaswyre,  f

    
 
    

=e a

a FS
oot Qh
pues t

oe ee at as J
2ST eo a8 4

Pe ee

md z

Mee >i RNR oes |
TRS NE es 4

  

— "
2
ao . eee

 

Top: Gathering in Annapolis to support former W&L lacrosse coach Jack
Emmer, whose Army team was about to take on Navy, are Peter Keefe, ’78,
Sam Englehart, ’73, Don Evanson, ’73; Skeet Chadwick, ’74, Jerry Darrell,
W@&L’s director of food services, Tom Kiegler,’77, and Barbara Kiegler. Left:
SAN FRANCISCO—Three guests from Lexington attend a March meeting.
Pictured here are (front) Sue LaRue, Liz Smith, ’89, Dick Sessoms, director of
major gifts at WEL, Tony Woodson, ’51, Alexa Salzman, ’89, and Anne
Geary, ’89; (back) Win Koch, ’61, law professor Lash LaRue, ’59, Nat Baker,

67, Bob Moselle, ’69, Tom Green, ’64, John McNamara, ’76, Charles Festo,
'74L, and Jerry South, ’54.

 

 

 

 

 

WESTCHESTER-FAIRFIELD—Greeting Dick Sessoms (center), W@L’s
director of major gifts, are (seated) Carter Montague, ’90, and Tim Porterfield,
‘SIL, chapter president; (standing) Bob Callaway, ’56, Mike Morgan, ’68, Don
Hillman, ’46, Angelo Maragos, ’89L, and Jack Hattendorf, 59.

 

 

g Se

+

PAGE 36/THE GAZETTE @ |

°

 

 

 

 

 

j

 

Several new

 

(Continued from page 20)

the sciences, good teaching is not so much
talking about science as it is involving people in
science,” says H. ‘Thomas Williams, professor of
physics. “Students have to get their hands dirty;
they have to work in the lab. They can’t do that
without the right equipment.”

One difficulty, of course, is Washington
and Lee’s location. If W&L were in a large city,
faculty and students might be able to use the
facilities of a neighboring research university.
But Lexington, while remarkably cosmopolitan
for its size, is still a small town. It is far away from
metropolitan areas, which have museums,
concert halls, and other colleges and universities.
As a result, members of the W&L community
have few opportunities to collaborate with their
colleagues at other institutions. Several new
initiatives are designed to bridge that gap and to
bring the rest of the world to Lexington.

‘Through the “Executive-in-Residence”
program, for example, business leaders spend
several days on the campus and share their
experiences and advice with faculty and stu-
dents. In the same vein, a visiting artists’ pro-
gram, funded by an endowment of the Lenfest
Center, will allow performing and visual artists to
visit the campus for extended periods of time.

On the other side of the campus, the
Frances Lewis Law Center brings distinguished
individuals to Lewis Hall each year as “scholars-,
judges-, and lawyers-in-residence.” Through the
years these visitors have generated numerous
books, articles, seminars, and lectures. The law
center also supports the scholarly work of W&L’s
permanent faculty and sponsors conferences on
topics of current interest. Students participate as
well by serving as research assistants.

Although the center’s endowment has
grown steadily since it was created 12 years ago,
it has not kept pace with rising costs, and ad-
ditional funds are needed to support ongoing
programs.

initiatives

One of the most innovative of the Uni-
versity’s future plans is the creation of “Univer-
sity professorships.” University professors, says
Elrod, “will be visiting scholars whose training
and experience span multiple disciplines.” For
example, a scholar in Constitutional law might
teach courses in both history and law. He or she
might also teach seminars for undergraduates
and law students, as well as faculty members.

“The idea is to bring different parts of the
University together,” Elrod adds, “to create
interdisciplinary work that will continue even
after the visiting professor has gone.”

are designed
to bring the
rest of the
world to

Lexington.

dic various initiatives of the long-range
plan—which call for increased funding for
scholarships, computers, libraries, and faculty
support—work together to enhance the Univer-
sity’s teaching program. ‘They are designed to
bring Washington and Lee into the 21st century
as a strong institution and an exciting place to
teach and to learn.

As a group of senior faculty members
donned black robes and marched in their final
commencement ceremony this year, an era
ended at Washington and Lee. But the goals of
the long-range plan seek to ensure that good
teaching won’t end with their departure. New
faculty members will come to Lexington and
find facilities and resources which will allow
them not only to keep themselves and their
students current in their fields, but also to
appreciate the qualities of civility, honor, and
community unique to Washington and Lee.

And once they’re here perhaps they, like
Steve Stephenson, will never want to leave.

W&L 37

LAST IN A SERIES

 

Developing CEOs

[ summer, Fortune magazine reported the results of a
survey that revealed Washington and Lee is one of the
nation’s best training grounds for chief executive officers.

A survey of 1,500 top executives of Fortune 500 and
Service 500 companies
ranked W&L third in pro-

still have too many banks, and some of them must consolidate
to maintain their profitability and competitiveness.”

The most rewarding aspects of his career, Van Buren says,
have been the friendships he has formed and the chance to run
a profitable, successful
business. “It’s also been

 

ducing CEOs on a per
capita basis.

Five W&L alumni
were represented in the
survey. ‘They are Charles
W. Cole Jr., 59, CEO of
First Maryland Bancorp;
J. Carter Fox, ’61, presi-
dent, CEO, and director
of Chesapeake Corp. in
Richmond; Henry H.
Harrell, °61, president,
CEO, and director of Uni-
versal Corp. in Richmond;
Robert Van Buren, ’50,

Robert Van Buren

 

 

satisfying to provide ser-
vices to our Customers
and exciting opportuni-
ties for our employees,”
he says.

Banking remains a
good choice for young
people entering the work
force, Van Buren be-
lieves. “Every country
needs banks, to stimulate
the economy and encour-
age the growth of busi-
ness. ‘They provide jobs
and continue to make this

   

Charles W. Cole Jr.

 

 

director and former CEO

and chairman of Midlantic Corp. in Edison, N.J.; and Robert
A. Young III, 63, president, CEO, and director of Arkansas
Best Corp. in Fort Smith, Ark.

To a man, the CEOs believe their Washington and Lee
experience prepared them well for their professional lives.
“W&L gave me the fundamental background and the prin-
ciples that are necessary in a successful business career,” Van
Buren says. “I gained a lot in Lexington, both educationally
and socially.”

Van Buren came to Washington and Lee from Plainfield,
N.J. He majored in economics, was a member of Phi Kappa Psi
fraternity and the Interfraternity Council, and played soccer for
two years.

After graduation he joined Chemical Bank in the cor-
porate lending area. He became a senior vice president there
in 1968. Three years later he became an executive vice presi-
dent at Midlantic. He was named president of National Newark
& Essex Bank—the predecessor of Midlantic National Bank—
and the holding company in 1972. A few years later he became
vice chairman and then chairman and chief executive officer of
Midlantic National, and in 1978 he was named chairman of the
board and chief executive officer of the holding company. He
stepped down from that position earlier this year, but he re-
mains with the bank as a director and chairman of the board’s
executive committee.

During his 40-year career, Van Buren has seen “dramatic
changes” in the industry. “Banks have gotten involved in inter-
national business, and there’s much more interstate banking
than there used to be,” he says. “Midlantic, for instance, con-
trols banks in three states.” In the future, he believes, banks will
need to consolidate their operations more than in the past. “We

38. —-W&L

country strong.

“Banking is hard work, but it can be very exciting, and it’s
a lot of fun.”

For his part, Cole couldn’tagree more. “It is an understate-
ment to say that today’s banking industry environment is chal-
lenging,” he says. “The entire financial services industry is
changing at break-neck speed, and a key to success is the ability
to adapt quickly to these rapid changes.”

Cole believes his years at Washington and Lee were invalu-
able in training him for such challenges. “My W&L education
helped me to think on my feet,” he says. “It provided a strong
foundation in business and economics, as well as the ability to
think logically and creatively and to apply knowledge learned
in the classroom to a whole spectrum of real-life situations.”

A native of Baltimore, Cole attended the Gilman School
before enrolling at W&L in 1955. He majored in economics at
Washington and Lee and was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
and was on the staff of the Ring-tum Phi. After leaving W&L, he
earned a law degree at the University of Maryland. He joined
First National Bank of Maryland in 1961 as a management
trainee and was named president of First Maryland Bancorp in
1977. He became chief executive officer seven years later.

His Washington and Lee experience, Cole believes, pre-
pared him well for his career in banking. “The small class size,
coupled with rigorous academic standards, encouraged students
to flourish,” he says. “The Honor System also worked extremely
well, instilling in students a sense of integrity and self-
esteem that is essential to success in business, and in life.

“I would highly recommend W&L to any young person,”
he concludes. “It is an educational experience that affects a
lifetime.”

‘The Generals' Report

Pp was the kind of sea-

son Washington and Lee
sports fans had waited for all
year. In fact, it was the kind of
season that had never been
seen before at W&L. Simply
put, the spring of °91 was
W&L’s very own champion-
ship season.

Six of W&L’s eight teams
posted winning records. Four
won conference champion-
ships, and a fifth won an unof-
ficial league title. Four squads
went on to compete at the na-
tional championships. W&L
teams won more than 63 per-
cent of their games this spring,
and three teams set school rec-
ords for victories this year. And
W&L athletes were named all-
conference 26 times.

Whether goalie Tom
Costello paced an early-sea-
son win over Franklin and
Marshall, or a last-second goal
from Angie Carrington snared a key
conference victory over Bridgewater in
women’s lacrosse, or a final-round flurry
from Jay McKnight marked the best finish
by a W&L golfer at nationals in 12 years,
everything seemed to be coming up roses
for W&L.

oh © "
Ss
4 aS as
.

. = oS
é cA a

MEN’S LACROSSE

After starting the year on the out-
side looking in, the Generals finished
1991 with their own seat in the front
row. Ranked 13th in the country in the
preseason, W&L quickly established
itself as a national tournament contender
with a strong performance against sev-
enth-ranked Franklin & Marshall in the
third game of the season. The 7-5 victory
was fueled by 15 acrobatic saves by
Costello, a senior from Garden City, N.Y.

ag Be Ce

cae

BY MIKE STACHUIRA, '86

. o *
¢ ” hi

~*

 

W&L goalie Tom Costello keeps watch in the Generals' stirring
10-6 win over Roanoke in March. Costello made seven fourth-
quarter saves to preserve the win.

Game 4 brought the annual show-
down with arch-rival Roanoke, and the
Generals, who had not beaten the ninth-
ranked Maroons in the regular season
since 1984, were up for the challenge.
W&L scored five unanswered goals in
the second half, and Costello made seven
saves in the fourth quarter to give the
Generals a 10-6 victory and propel them
toward their first-ever Old Dominion
Athletic Conference title.

‘The Generals’ win streak reached
five with convincing victories over
Haverford and Lynchburg, as junior Jeff
Roberts from Seattle scored eight of his
41 goals for the season.

‘The season’s lone rough stretch was
approaching, however. W&L dropped
two of its next three games, losing at No. 3
Gettysburg and at No. 2 Ohio Wesleyan

a od
cs p- ek 8

aa iat "
ee ae

in a pair of games decided by
a pair of bad W&L quarters.
Against Gettysburg, W&L fell
behind 4-0 in the opening
minutes but played the Bul-
lets even the rest of the way.
In the Ohio Wesleyan game,
the Generals fought tooth and
nail with the Bishops for
three quarters before being
outscored 7-1 in the final
quarter in the 18-11 defeat.

But W&L would not lose
again in the regular season.
The team broke for exams af-
ter a 22-goal victory over
Scranton. ‘The Generals did
not play again for 18 days, and
their first opponent on the
docket was perennial power
Washington College, a team
W&L had not beaten since
1981. The layoff didn’t seem
to matter, though, as Costello
made a point-blank save in
the final seconds to give the
Generals a win that solidified their na-
tional tournament hopes.

W&L closed out the regular season
with a pair of championship victories.
‘The Generals clinched their first ODAC
title with a win at Hampden-Sydney that
saw Roberts score a career-high six goals.
And in the final regular-season contest,
W&L won its third consecutive Lee-
Jackson Classic championship with a
convincing win over feisty next-door
neighbor VMI.

On the day after the VMI win, the
call came from the NCAA selection com-
mittee inviting the Generals to a first-
round date in Delaware, Ohio, with No.
2-ranked Ohio Wesleyan. A 360-mile
bus trip and a punishing Ohio Wesleyan
attack perhaps combined to be too much
for W&L as the Generals fell 19-10.

W&L 39

 

Costello was stellar between the pipes
once again, making 19 saves, and nine
different W&L players scored. Again,
W&L played OWU nearly even much
of the game — it was 12-8 going into the
fourth quarter — but again, the Bishops
outscored W&L decisively in the final 15
minutes (7-2).

The loss certainly did not tarnish a
tremendous season for Generals’ lacrosse.
W&L finished with its highest national
ranking (6th) since 1987, and its four
losses were to three teams ranked in the
top five, including Division I Virginia.
Four players — seniors ‘Todd Garliss
from Fallston, Md., and Clark Wight from
Baltimore at midfield, senior Mike
Moseman from Yorktown Heights, N.Y.,
at attack, and junior Robert Huke from

Fairfax, Va., on defense — were named
All-ODAC.

Wight, who also was named ODAC
Player of the Year, and Garliss were both
selected to play in the North-South all-
star game. And Roberts, who finished the
year with 41 goals and nine assists, be-
came only the 13th player in W&L his-
tory to score 50 points in a season.

GOLF

With a top-10 national champion-
ship finish already on their resume and
with four of the top five scorers from 1990
returning to this year’s team, the W&L
golfers faced plenty of high expectations.
‘They didn’t disappoint.

‘The Generals rolled toa 29-2 record,
won two tournaments, and finished sec-
ond in two others on their way to position-
ing themselves for another invitation to
the national championships.

Ranked 13th in the nation late in the
season, the Generals still needed a vic-
tory in the ODAC Championships to
convince the selection committee.

The same four golfers who led W&L
all year produced a second ODAC title
in as many years. Senior Brian Kopet
from Atlanta and juniors Clay ‘Thomas
(Tampa, Fla.), Jay McKnight (Nashville,
Tenn.) and Brad ‘Thoburn (Midlothian,
Va.) posted scores in the 70s to lead W&L
to a six-stroke victory in the ODAC
Championships.

Next, it was on to nationals for a
second consecutive year. The beginning
was slow, as W&L struggled through an
opening-day 320 and found itself in 15th
place. Battling 30-mile-per-hour winds
on Day 2, the Generals, who got a solid 77
from No. 5 man Cliff Burrow, posted one
of the top three rounds of the day to move

 

back into the top 10. W&L held on fora
10th-place finish at nationals. McKnight
led the W&L effort with an 11th-place
finish that earned him second-team All-
America honors.

MEN’S TENNIS

Despite posting their poorest won-
lost record since 1982, W&L proved to
be one of the top programs in the nation
by season’s end. ‘The Generals, playing
their traditionally brutal schedule of
Division I and top-drawer Division III
teams, worked their way into the na-
tional tournament for the sixth time in
the last seven years. Once there, they
proved they belonged.

W&L went through the 1991 season
much as it had others in recent years,
struggling with some strong Division I
opponents and then facing some key

Division III competition. W&L got an
important 7-2 win over Division III No.
13 Wheaton in mid-season before run-
ning into three of the top five teams in
the nation in a span of seven days.
W&L lost to Claremont, Swarthmore,
and Emory, but the 5-4 defeat to No. 4
Claremont got the attention of the na-
tional selection committee.

W&L finished the regular season as
it has each of the last seven years: by
dominating the ODAC Championships.
‘The Generals won six of the nine singles
and doubles flights. In singles, W&L got
titles from freshmen Robby
MacNaughton (Greenville, S.C.) and
Robert Wein (Greensboro, N.C.) and
sophomore ‘Travis West (Austin, Texas).
W&L swept the doubles flights, get-
ting wins from the No. 1 team of
MacNaughton and senior Bill Meadows

(Lexington, Ky.), the No. 2 tandem of
senior Reid Manley (Birmingham, Ala.)
and junior Richard Yates (Jackson, Miss.),
and the No. 3 pair of Wein and West.

Then it was on to nationals, where
the 12th-ranked Generals drew fifth-
ranked Emory, one of the pretournament
favorites, in the first round. Falling be-
hind 4-0, W&L rallied with a pair of
singles wins from MacNaughton at No. 2
and Manley, who had to rally late in the
third set at No. 4. The Generals then
swept all three doubles matches to win
the match 5-4. Fueled by that win,
W&L went on to finish eighth in the
national tournament.

‘The season was capped by a series of
individual achievements. MacNaughton,
the only freshman in the country to be
ranked in the national top 50, was
named Division III Rookie of the Year.

 

W&L 41

Meadows, a former national doubles
champion, received the Arthur Ashe
Award for sportsmanship and humani-
tarian concern. And in the singles draw,
Meadows advanced to the third round,
earning Division III All-America honors.
He became the eighth W&L player
named an All-American in both singles
and doubles.

WOMEN’S TENNIS

W&L’s 1991 women’s tennis team
had a special blend of youth and ex-
perience. That combination carried the
squad to its best season ever and the first
appearance in a national tournament by
a W&L women’s team.

The Generals won 18 of 19 regular-
season matches and all 10 of their league
matches. Broken down, those numbers
are even more impressive. Over the
course of the season, W&L defeated an
opponent 9-0 10 times. W&L’s only
regular-season loss was to eventual na-
tional champion Mary Washington 5-4.
During the season, W&L players won
129 of 144 singles matches and 52 of 64
doubles matches.

The ODAC Championships were
just a stepping-stone to nationals, as the
Generals won six of nine singles flights.
W&L got victories in singles from
Eugenia Foster (Mobile, Ala.), Kelly
Martone (Norfolk, Va.), Kathy Leake
(Florence, S.C.), and Kim Dickinson
(Atlanta). In doubles, Foster combined
with Jean Stroman (Hilton Head Island,
S.C.) to win at No. 1, while Leake and
Martone won their third consecutive
ODAC doubles title.

At nationals, the Generals struggled
in the team competition and lost all three
of their matches, including a 54 heart-
breaker to Vassar College. Stroman con-
cluded her W&L career in the singles
tournament by advancing to the conso-
lation semifinals.

WOMEN’S LACROSSE

The season lacked a pretty start,
but when the Generals won nine of
their last 11 games and came within a
goal of reaching the ODAC title game

42 W&L

for the first time ever, nothing could have
looked better.

The Generals equalled the school
record for wins in a season with 10, but it
seemed they wouldn’t get half that num-
ber aftera 1-4 start to the season. Rallying
behind three-time team MVP Shawn
Wert (Malvern, Pa.) and sophomore Lisa
Dowling (Ruxton, Md.), who late in the
season followed a six-goal game with a
six-assist game, the Generals reeled off
five- and four-game winning streaks to
place themselves third in the ODAC,
their best regular -season finish ever.

W&L easily advanced to the ODAC
semifinals for the second year in a row,
where it fell victim to perennial nemesis
Roanoke. The Lady Maroons had beaten
W&L 8-3 in the regular season, but in the
rematch, the Generals came within inches
of victory in an 8-7 defeat. Wert was
named first team all-conference for the
second year in a row, while Dowling and
classmate Ginny Dallam (Joppa, Md.)
and freshman Angie Carrington
(Charlottesville, Va.) earned second-team
All-ODAC recognition.

TRACK & FIELD

With both the men’s and women’s
teams in their own stages of rebuilding,

 

 

 

 

W&L head coach Buck Leslie, the ODAC
Coach of the Year, shares a laugh with
freshman Jimmy Kull after his 75 on the
Lexington course.

any sign of success would have been seen
as a bonus during the 1991 season. The
year proved to be a pleasant surprise.

‘The men’s team finished third in the
ODAC Championships after posting a
3-1 record in dual meets. It was the 15th
consecutive winning season for the men’s
team under head coach Norris Aldridge.
(Earlier in the year he had received the
1991 Walt Cormack Award for his contri-
butions to the sport during 21 years as
W&L’s head coach.) The highlights were
provided by senior pole-vaulter David
Johnston (Newport News, Va.) and jun-
ior shot-putter Jim Henry (Dallas), who
won indoor and outdoor league titles in
their events. Freshman Scott Covey
(Chesterfield, Va.) showed promise as
well, placing in five different events at
the ODAC outdoor championships.

The women were led by a young-
ster, too, as freshman Wendy Neel
(Bethany, W.Va.) paced W&L to unoffi-
cial ODAC titles at the indoor and out-
door meets. (The ODAC does not recog-
nize women’s track as an official league
sport.) Neel set three school records dur-
ing the course of the season to lead the
Generals. W&L also got record-setting
performances from senior veterans Sarah
Bolte (Leoti, Kansas) in the high jump
and Sandi Dudley (Henry, Va.) in the
javelin, both of whom nearly qualified for
the Division III national meet.

BASEBALL

It was perhaps a little unfair for the
baseball team to start the year with four
wins in four games, including a victory
over Division I Holy Cross. It only made
the rest of the season tougher to take.

The Generals won just four of their
final 16 games, but the season was not a
total loss. Junior pitchers Steve Momorella
(Fairfax, Va.) and T.J. Daly (Richmond,
Va.) both turned in herculean perfor-
mances, accounting for 123 of W&L’s
153 innings this season. Senior catcher
Chris Kavanagh (Rockville Centre, N.Y.)
was a consistent performer with both bat
and glove, and his .339 batting average
was second-best on the team. Meanwhile,
leadoff center fielder Brian Harper
(Fairfax Station, Va.) batted .321.

 

 

CLASS NOTES

L. PALMER BROWN III received

30
the L. M. Graves Memorial Health
A

ward in 1990 and the Living Award from the
Methodist Hospitals Foundation in 1989. He
lives in Memphis, Tenn.

ISAAC L. FLORY JR. and his wife, Eleanor,
have moved to Green Valley, Ariz.

a

JUDGE CHARLES E. LONG JR., retired
state district judge in Dallas, celebrated his 80th
birthday and 50th wedding anniversary in
January.

ALLAN S. DELAND and his wife
live in New London, N.H.

JAMES S. POLLAK is looking for a publisher
for his new book, The Jubilant Delinquent, which
contains a chapter about his days at W&L. He
lives in Sherman Oaks, Calif.

DR. JACK J. STARK is in his fourth year of

retirement from the medical profession. He lives

in Vienna, W.Va.

9 3 7 MAJ. GEN. ARCHIBALD A.
SPROUL has retired as a director

of Columbia Gas. He had been a director since

1961. Sproul lives in Staunton, Va.

JOHN J. VANDALE lives in Amarillo, Texas,
with his wife, Sally. He works in the oil and gas
producing business.

WILLIAM C. WILBUR writes a monthly opin-
ion column for the St. Petersburg, Fla., Times.
’ 3 8 THE REV. ARTHUR L. BICE

recently celebrated the 50th anni-
versary of his ordination into the priesthood. He
offered a Solemn Mass of Thanksgiving at Em-
manuel Church in Little Falls, N.Y., where he
is rector emeritus. He lives in Herkimer, N.Y.

JUDGE THOMAS A. WILLIAMS JR. and his
wife, Dorothy, celebrated their golden wedding
anniversary in February. They live in
Richmond.

3 9 THE REV. HOWARD M.

HICKEY and his wife, Mellie, work
On the Cheyenne River Indian Reservation.
They live in Dupree, S.D.

THE REV. ELLISON A. SMYTH is retired
after serving as pastor of Blacksburg (Va.)

Presbyterian Church for 21 years. He and his
wife continue to live in Blacksburg.

4]
DONALD E. GARRETSON

"43
recently concluded 18 months as

chairman of the board of Presbyterian Homes
of Minnesota. He lives in St. Paul, Minn., where
he also serves with the United Way and with
the local and national boards of Junior
Achievement.

GEORGE M. MURRAY JR. is

retired and lives in Marietta, Ga.

JACK C. MURRELL has retired as vice presi-
dent of Commercial National Bank in Shreve-
port, La., after 38 years of service. He lives in

Shreveport.
G. RICHARD CRONIN retired

"44
from Shearson Lehman Bros. in

1989 and now lives in Tucson, Ariz.

JUDGE WILLIAM H. OAST JR. retired in
February after 16 years as a judge of Virginia’s
Third Judicial Circuit. He and his wife, Martha
Ann, now spend their time in Portsmouth, Va.,

and Corolla, N.C.

’ 4 = O. THOMAS KAYLOR JR. prac-
tices law in Hagerstown, Md. He

and his wife, Jean, have five children and nine

grandchildren.

48
49

C. VICTOR MOORE JR. has retired, but he
continues some consulting work in geology and
engineering. Last year, he taught courses in
reservoir engineering in London and Nigeria.
Moore and his wife, Ann, live in Moraga, Calif.
9 5 () PHILIP M. LANIER received the

1990 Distinguished Service Award
from the Louisville Alumni Club of Centre Col-
lege. He is a partner in the Louisville law firm
of Middleton & Reutlinger and has served as
chairman of the board of the Louisville Or-
chestra, the Greater Louisville Fund for the

Arts, and St. Francis School. He has also been
an overseer of the University of Louisville.

ROBERT T. BOSSERMAN is an

accountant in Harrisonburg, Va.

O. ‘THOMAS KAYLOR JR.
(See °45).

 

OLIVER M. MENDELL has been selected to
receive the 1991 Israeli Ambassador's Award
for outstanding achievement. The award is
given annually by the American Friends of the
Rambam Medical Center, the fourth-largest

hospital in Israel. Mendell is senior vice presi-
dent of Chemical Bank in New York City.

JUDGE WILLIAM H. OAST JR. (See ’44).

BERNARD C. TALLEY has retired from the
Carroll County, Va., School System after 35
years of service. During his career he was assis-
tant superintendent of instruction and principal
of an elementary school. He is active in
Hillsville, Va., civic affairs and serves on the
town council.

ROBERT J. INGRAM is manag-

ing partner in the Pulaski/

ot

Blacksburg/Galax, Va., law firm of Gilmer,
Sadler, Ingram, Sutherland & Hutton. He lives
in Radford.

 

JOHN E. KANNAPELL JR. and JOHN S.
MOREMEN, ’57L, have published the Jack
Daniel Old-Time Barbecue Cookbook. The book
is written by Vince Staten and contains nearly
300 recipes for sauce, soups, stews, breads, and
beverages. “The story of barbecue is the story
of America,” Moremen says. “Settlers arrive on
the great unspoiled continent, discover won-
drous riches, set them on fire, and eat them.”
Both Kannapell and Moremen have worked for
Brown-Forman distillery company. Kannapell
lives in Glenview, Ky., and Moremen lives
in Louisville.

The library at Ethel M. Gildersleeve Middle
School in Newport News, Va., has been
dedicated in honor of RICHARD E. McMUR-
RAN. McMurran taught at public high schools
in Newport News until 1965 and then served
as an administrator at Christopher Newport Col-
lege until his retirement in 1984. He lives in
Newport News.

W&L 43

An Act of
Loyalty

   
 
 
    
 
  
  
 
   

little-known fact that bears mentioning in

this column is that the vast majority of
college and university endowment funds
traditionally arise through charitable be-
quests. This final act of love and com-
mitment always has been an important means
of giving something back to alma mater.
Washington and Lee University is no ex-
ception. Countless scholarship funds, prizes,
and even professorships have been established
here through this simple means.

In fact, the charitable bequest is at the
heart of estate planning. A bequest to
Washington and Lee will remove assets
from your estate, thus minimizing the
estate tax burden that may fall upon your heirs.
Most importantly, a will directs who is to receive
your assets and how they are to be used.

Bequests do not qualify for current
charitable income tax deductions because
they are revocable. They do, however,
demonstrate your affection for the Uni-
versity in a very special way. Through
your final act, you strengthen this remark-
able place by investing in the people and
the programs that distinguish it.

A will provision requires very simple
language: ‘| hereby give, devise, and be-
queath to The Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, at Lexington, Virginia, the sum of

tobe usedfor __._--_-—.” «se

In other columns, | have mentioned the —
merits of the so-called ‘‘income-retained”’
gifts. Virtually all of those arrangements
can be established through testamentary
provisions. As a consequence, through
your last will and testament you can ad-
dress a loved one’s immediate needs while
still providing a benefaction for Wash-
ington and Lee.

If you are in the process of reviewing
your will or are just now creating one, please
take a moment to consider the influence
General Lee’s college has had on your life.
Aside from the taxes your estate might
save, a testamentary gift to W&L will
provide tangible, permanent, and very
personal evidence of your own legacy of
loyalty and commitment.

 

 

 

David R. Long **"
Director of Planned Giving
(703) 463-8425

44 W&L

IRVING M. SHLESINGER and his partner,
JULIAN B. MOHR, ’S2, reached the quarter-
finals of the National Men’s Clay Court Ten-
nis Championship last August. Shlesinger and

Mohr live in Atlanta.
9 52 BOYD H. LEYBURN JR. has

retired from Sears after 35 years
with the company. He lives in Birmingham,
Ala., where he is busy with his church, the
Salvation Army, and golf.

F. NELSON LIGHT, retired judge and Navy
commander, and his wife, Polly, have moved
from Chatham, Va., to Virginia Beach.

JULIAN B. MOHR (See IRVING M. SHLES-
INGER, °51.)

ROBERT J. INGRAM (See ’51).
9 5 3 ROBERT W. LATIMER is a
senior partner in a Los Angeles ac-

counting firm.

SAMUEL K. PATTON has retired from IBM
Corp. after more than 30 years in systems
development. He is a part-time teacher of com-
puter courses at Marist College in Poughkeep-
sie, N.Y., and does consulting work on personal
computing. Patton is a member of the board of
the Mid-Hudson Library System and lives in
Hopewell Junction, N.Y.

JOSEPH W. SCHER is celebrating his 20th
year as an independent writer and producer of
informational videos for a variety of national and
regional corporations. He has also written more
than 50 television shows for NBC and ABC and
for syndication. Scher and his wife, Edie, live
in Scotch Plains, N.]J.

RODNEY F. STOCK JR. has retired and lives
in Reno, Nev. He serves as an officer/director
of four nonprofit corporations and writes occa-

sional historical articles.
9 5 4 ALBERT J. PERRY recently re-
turned from Australia after working

there for 10 years. He is now an independent
consulting mining geologist in Tucson, Ariz.
9 5 5 JOHN T. HUDDLE is a senior
partner in the Lancaster, Ohio, law

firm of Huddle and Rose. He has served as law
director for the city of Lancaster since 1960.

LAURENCE LEVITAN is chairman of the
Maryland Senate Budget and Taxation Com-
mittee. He won reelection to the senate in
1990. He is also chairman-elect of the fiscal af-
fairs and government operations committee of
the Southern Legislative Conference. Levitan
is an attorney with the Bethesda, Md., firm of
Frank, Bernstein, Conaway & Goldman.

9 5 6 WILLIAM T.M. GRIGG won
first prize in the 1990 “Blue Pen-
cil” awards for local, state, and federal press
releases. ‘The competition was sponsored by the
National Association of Government Com-
municators. He also won a silver medal in the
international Mercury Awards for video news
releases. In January, he became director of the
news division of the U.S. Public Health Ser-
vice, which encompasses the Food and Drug
Administration, the National Institutes of
Health, the Centers for Disease Control, and
other federal health agencies. He had spent
eight years as director of press relations for the
FDA. Grigg lives in Chevy Chase, Md.

9 5 7 JOHN S. MOREMEN (See JOHN
E. KANNAPELL JR., °51).

H. MERRILL PLAISTED III was recently
elected treasurer of the Virginia Society of the
Sons of the Revolution. He is also a director
of the Metro Richmond (Va.) Chamber of Com-

merce. He lives in Richmond.

9 58 JAMES J. CRAWFORD JR. is
deputy general manager and ex-

ploration manager of Sun Oil Shabwa Yemen

Ltd. in the Republic of Yemen.

The Virginia Council of Teachers of Mathe-
matics has chosen S. STUART FLANAGAN
as the recipient of the 1991 William C. Lowry
Outstanding Mathematics Teacher Award. He
is professor of mathematics at the College of
William and Mary in Williamsburg, Va.

DR. DONALD R. FOWLER has been named
a life member of the American Running and
Fitness Association. Fowler, who lives in Staun-
ton, Va., jogs about 30 miles a week and en-
joys walking, hiking, and cross country skiing.

W. PHILIP LAUGHLIN is an environmental
projects manager for Exxon in New Jersey. He
and his wife have moved to Chatham, N.]J., after
many years of overseas assignments.

C. PARKHILL MAYS JR. has been elected to
the management committee of the law firm
Holland & Knight. He is also head of the Florida
firm’s statewide public finance department.
Mays lives in Lakeland, Fla., and is a director
of the area chamber of commerce and the West

Central Florida YMCA.

HOWARD C. PACKETT has received the
Silver Medal Award from the Advertising
Federation of the Roanoke Valley for his work
in advertising and public service. Packett is
president of Brand Edmonds Packett, an agen-
cy with offices in Salem, Va., and Richmond.
He lives in Salem.

PHILIP W. TURNER III has been named
dean of the Berkeley Divinity School at Yale
University. He had been professor of social
ethics at General ‘Theological Seminary in New

York City.

9 59 PATRICK HENRY was elected
a justice of the Supreme Court of

the State of New York in January 1991. He lives

in Islip Terrace, N.Y.

CLARK M. LEA is in the business of manufac-
turing marine and fishing tackle. He works with
his son, Clark Jr. Lea lives in Clearwater, Fla.
9 6 () N. WILLIAM BATH has become
of counsel to the Atlanta law firm

of Branch, Pike, Ganz & O'Callaghan.

ROBERT R. FEAGIN III has been named to
the directors committee of the Florida-based law
firm Holland & Knight. He is in charge of the
firm’s trade regulation practice and handles anti-
trust litigation and counseling. He lives in
Tallahassee.

DR. J. E. JERRY) RINGLAND teaches ob-
stetrics and gynecology at the Robert Wood
Johnson Medical School in New Brunswick,
N.J. He also has a private practice. Ringland
lives in Princeton, N.].

DAVID K. WEAVER works with the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service. He is a grants ad-
ministrator for the North American Wetlands
Conservation Council in Washington, D.C., and

lives in Oakton, Va.
WILLIAM C. REMINGTON is a

61
partner in Johnson & Higgins. He

serves as president of the firm’s Texas corpora-

tion and lives in Houston.

9 6 2 HARRY G. BALLANCE JR.
recently completed 26 years of ser-

vice as a pilot with Delta Airlines. Ballance, who

lives with his family in Atlanta, is a captain on

the Boeing 767 and flies primarily transcon-

tinental routes.

LESLIE H. PEARD III has finished his 13th
year as a financial consultant with Shearson
Lehman Bros. He lives in Fresno, Calif.

RUSS A. PRITCHARD is curator of the Civil
War Museum and Library in Philadelphia.

W&L 45

E. MONTGOMERY TUCKER is the U.S.
attorney for the Western District of Virginia.
He was nominated for the office by President
George Bush. Tucker and his wife, Judith, and
their daughter, Courtney, 16, live in Roanoke.
9 6 3 DR. RICHARD M. HERMAN is

a family physician in Portland,

Maine. He and his wife have four children.

DR. EDWARD W. HOLMES JR. has been
named professor and chairman of the depart-
ment of medicine at the University of Penn-
sylvania. He lives in Philadelphia.

GLENN O. THORNHILL JR. has been
elected chairman of the Roanoke Valley
Business Council. He is president and chief ex-

ecutive officer of Maid Bess Corp.

’ 6 4 ROBERT H. BREWER is a part-
ner in the real estate investment

firm Ferguson and Brewer Investment Co. He

also has a part-time solo law practice. He lives

in Paradise, Calif.

JOHN H. KIRKLEY is an attorney and
associate pastor of the Unification Church of
Red Hook, N.Y. He has four children: Sunnie
Marie, Gabriella, Sophia, and Theodore.

ROBERT H. POWELL III, a senior partner
with the Norfolk, Va., law firm of Williams,
Kelly & Greer, was recently elected to the board
of directors of the Bank of Hampton Roads,
with headquarters in Chesapeake, Va.

E. COTTON RAWLS JR. works for Grieb’s
Pharmacy Inc. in Darien, Conn.

E. STEPHEN WALSH is a general partner of
David J. Greene & Co., an investment advisory
firm in New York City. He had been general
counsel for Fahnestock & Co. Walsh lives in
Bronxville, N.Y.

COL. NORMAN E. YOUNGBLOOD III
teaches at the U.S. Army War College in Car-
lisle, Pa.

6 5 JAQUELIN H. DeJARNETTE

has opened a branch of his invest-
ment advisory firm in Columbia, Mo. He re-
tains his office at Wintergreen, Va.

ALAN L. MARX is an attorney with the
Nashville, Tenn., law firm of King & Ballow.
He recently taught a seminar on media law at
Vanderbilt University School of Law.

9 6 6 BUCKNER WOODFORD JR. is
a banker in Paris, Ky.

46 W&L

9 6 7 H. B. (CHIP) GORDY JR. is a

partner in the law firm of Ayres,
Jenkins, Gordy & Almand in Ocean City, Md.
He also serves on the board of trustees of Penin-

sula General Hospital Medical Center in
Salisbury, Md.

NEIL D. JESPERSEN is professor of chemistry
at St. John’s University in Jamaica, N.Y., and
is chairman of the New York section of the
American Chemical Society for 1991. He lives
in Port Washington, N.Y., with his wife,
Marilyn, and their two daughters, Lisa, 20, and
Kristen, 17.

DR. HAROLD W. NASE recently took a leave
of absence from his private practice of general
surgery in Farmville, Va., to serve with a Mobile
Army Surgical Hospital in Saudi Arabia as part
of Operation Desert Storm.

ROBERT H. POWELL III (See °64).

9 6 8 COL. PARKER A. DENACO has

received the Air Force Legion of
Merit medal. He was recognized for his service
as the Air National Guard assistant to the staff
judge advocate at Strategic Air Command,
where he helped create management programs
to monitor and administer training requirements
for Air National Guard judge advocates. Dur-
ing the past year he has been a visiting professor
of constitutional law at the University of Maine.

DR. GEORGE J. DOVER, professor of pedi-
atrics at Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, has been appointed director of the
school’s division of pediatric hematology. He
lives in Baltimore.

THOMAS L. HOWARD has joined the
Washington, D.C., office of the law firm Baker,
Worthington and is cochairman of the firm’s tax
department. He has two children, Dexter, 5,
and Anne Booth, 3.

DR. HOUSTON M. KIMBROUGH JR. is
president of the medical/dental staff of Wesley
Long Community Hospital in Greensboro,
N.C. Kimbrough is a urologist.

9 6 9 J. ROSS FORMAN III is chairman

of the environmental law section of
the Alabama State Bar Association for 1990-91.
He lives in Birmingham.

THOMAS E. ROBINSON is director of real
estate investment trust advisory services with
Coopers & Lybrand in Washington, D.C. He
and his wife, Betty, and their two sons, Scott,
6, and Andrew, 5, live in Chevy Chase, Md.

L. PHILLIPS RUNYON III is judge of the
Jaffrey-Peterborough, N.H., district court. He
lives in Peterborough.

 

DR. THOMAS K. SLABAUGH recently com-
pleted one year as president of the Fayette
County Medical Society. He is president-elect
of Good Samaritan Hospital's staff. Slabaugh
lives in Lexington, Ky.

A. G. (JOE) WILSON represents Lexington
County in the South Carolina Senate. Last year
he observed the historic free elections in
Bulgaria and took side trips to East Berlin
and Moscow. He and his wife, Roxanne, have
four sons, Alan, 17, Add, 12, Julian, 9, and
Hunter, 3.

9 7 () JOHN D. BAIZLEY and his fami-

ly have moved back to Lexington,
where he owns and operates University Sports-
wear. The store sells W&L- and VMI-specialty
clothes.

B. WAUGH CRIGLER is the U.S. magistrate-
judge for the U.S. District Court, Western
District of Virginia. He and his wife, Anne, and
their three children live in Charlottesville.

CLINTON B. PALMER III is first assistant
cameraman on two television shows, Paramount
Pictures’ “Cheers” and Universal Studios’ “Ma-
jor Dad.” He lives in Pasadena, Calif.

WILLIAM R. PHILLIPS has joined the Atlan-

ta office of the law firm Thompson, Mann &

Hutson as senior environmental lawyer.

Previously, he was with the Environmental Pro-

tection Agency's regional office in Atlanta.

9 - 1 DR. WALTER B. BEVERLY
practices emergency medicine in

Lynchburg. He and his wife, Joanna, have two
boys: Andrew, 1, and Bryant, 4.

DR. MARVIN M.
BROOKE is chairman of
the department of reha-
bilitation medicine at
Tufts University School
of Medicine. He is also
psychiatrist-in-chief at the
New England Medical
Center, New England
Sinai Hospital and Reha-
bilitation Center, and the Boston Veterans Ad-
ministration Medical Center, and is director of
the Research and Training Center in Rehabilita-
tion and Childhood Trauma. He and his wife,
Kathleen, and their daughters, Kaitlin and
Margaret, live in Boston.

TIMOTHY H. DYER is vice president and
director of marketing for Compass Bank in New
Bedford, Mass. He and his wife, Ana, live in
Marion, Mass.

ee

i

fo i i i eae

é
et ee le eee |

i i te i id oe i | a

BATE C. TOMS III has formed the law firm
Dobson, Sinisi & Toms, based in London,
Brussels, and Milan. The firm is opening offices
in Moscow and Warsaw. Toms lives in London.

9 7 2 WALTER B. POTTER JR. is a

staff writer for presstime magazine,
the journal of the American Newspaper
Publishers Association located in Reston, Va.
Potter lives in Arlington, Va.

9 - is After a May 1989 heart transplant,

JEFFREY C. BURRIS has with-
drawn from partnership in the Indiana law firm
of Burris, Burris & Margerum. He is now
semiretired and practices law two to three days
a week as a sole proprietor expert in disability
law. Burris speaks before groups about organ
donations and has resumed a professional art
career. He lives in Indianapolis.

CHARLES W. DUNN and his wife, Harriet,
live in Nashville, Tenn., with their children,
Molly, 5, and Andrew, 8. Dunn recently was
named to the board of visitors of Kanuga Con-

ferences, an Episcopal conference center in
Hendersonville, N.C.

ROBERT S. DWELLEY has been named U.S.
distributor for Black Diamond, a line of foul-
weather gear and rubber clothing made by Kauf-
man Footwear. He lives in Westport, Mass.

JAY H. KERN is chairman of the board of com-
missioners of New Orleans’ Downtown
Development District. He is also secretary of
the USF&G Sugar Bowl Committee. Kern is
a partner in the law firm of Singer, Peragine,
Smith & Redfearn.

9 1 4 MORGAN O. DOOLITTLE III

is vice president and area manager
for Bedford Properties Inc., a diversified real
estate development and management company
with headquarters in Lafayette, Calif. He is
responsible for operations in the Washington,
D.C., area. Doolittle lives in Rockville, Md.

North Carolina National
Bank has named B. TROY
FERGUSON III vice pres-
ident of commercial bank-
ing for its Durham, N.C.,
operations. He joined the
bank in 1985 and became
an assistant vice president
in 1986. He and his wife,
Christine, have a son.

ry

 

DR. RICHARD C. HAYDON has joined the
department of surgery at the University of Ken-
tucky College of Medicine. He specializes in
otolaryngology and head and neck surgery.

 

 

 

 

 

Norman Smith, ’37, Retires Creatively

Most retired people, says Norman
Smith, ‘37, don’t want to spend the
rest of their lives fishing.

Indeed, when Smith faced retire-
ment from his work as a geologist
several years ago, the prospect of
shuffleboard and fishing poles never
entered his mind. “| wanted to do
something related to education,’”’ he
recalls, ‘as a way of furthering my
profession of geology.”’

So in 1987, Smith moved to
Asheville, N.C., and began a new
career with the Center for Creative
Retirement. Based at the University of
North Carolina at Asheville, the
center is developing a national reputa-
tion for its support of lifelong learn-
ing and intellectual activity during
retirement.

Smith directs the center’s Senior
Academy for Intergenerational Learn-
ing. SAIL, as it is popularly known,
pairs undergraduate students with
retired professionals, who are known
as “‘counselors.”” The counselors serve
as mentors to the young people, ad-
vising them about careers, tutoring
them in various subjects, assisting
professors and students in research
projects, and giving guest lectures in
university classes.

Though it began only a year and

 

a half ago, SAIL seems to be a hit with
all three generations. ‘‘The under-
graduates have been very grateful for
the help they’ve received,’’ Smith
says, ‘‘faculty members appreciate the
assistance and release time, and it’s
rewarding for the retirees as well.”’

Smith is also involved with the
center’s ‘College for Seniors,’” where
he teaches a geology course to a
group of retired citizens. Though he
brings plenty of knowledge to his
classroom—he is a former executive
director of the American Association
of Petroleum Geologists, and he still
works as a consultant from time to
time—he has no teaching experience.
That’s part of the fun, he says.

“| think everybody should try
teaching. It makes you keep yourself
up to date with current knowledge,
and the students really keep you on
your toes.”’

The Center for Creative Retire-
ment was recently recognized by
President Bush as the 360th of his
“1,000 Points of Light.’’ Smith
believes the recognition is
well-deserved.

‘This center represents a great op-
portunity for a lot of people,” he says.
“It’s a unique program and highly im-
aginative.”’

 

 

W&L 47

MATTHEW B. LaMOTTE is vice president
for management and development at En-
vironmental Concern Inc. and Environmental
Construction Co., which are engaged in
wetlands delineation, restoration, and en-
vironmental education. Previously, he was ex-
ecutive vice president of Avon-Dixon Insurance
Agency. He lives in Easton, Md.

WILLIAM E. WALSH has formed a general
practice law firm, Gaines, Walsh & Chapin, in
Spartanburg, S.C.

ne s WILLIAM M. WILCOX has been
admitted to partnership in the
Greensboro, N.C., law firm of Adams,
Kleemeier, Hagan, Hannah & Fouts. A certified
public accountant, Wilcox joined the firm in
1986 and specializes in taxation law.
is 6 DR. JEFFREY A. BAUM was
recently elected a fellow in the

American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons.
He lives in Pittsburgh.

DR. A. BLEAKLEY CHANDLER JR. prac-
tices cardiology with the firm Harper, Harper
& Pennington in Augusta, Ga.

STEPHEN D. McGRAW and his wife, Mary,
live in Virginia Beach with their daughter, Erin

Kathleen, 1.

9 7 6 7 JOSEPH L. CARRERE and five
partners have formed Southcoast

Capital Corp., a stock brokerage and investment

banking firm based in New Orleans.

JEFFREY P. DOWNIN has been named ex-
ecutive vice president of the Greater Lynchburg
(Va.) Chamber of Commerce.

C. E. (FLASH) FLOYD III has been promoted
to director of the media center at Washington
and Lee’s University Library.

BRIAN L. GARR is vice president of the newly
formed Financial Management Services Inc.,
which provides software and financial services
to the real estate industry. Garr lives in
Potomac, Md.

TED D. GROSSER has been named a part-
ner in the law firm of Vorys, Sater, Seymour,
and Pease. He works in the firm’s Cincinnati
office and practices in the areas of corporate and
business law, acquisitions and divestitures, and
franchise law.

LOUIS B. HACKERMAN has joined Star
Technologies in Sterling, Va. He is senior com-
putational analyst for the company, which

48 W&L

 

manufactures and sells high-speed network
computer equipment. Hackerman lives in
Gaithersburg, Md.

CARLTON M. HENSON II has started a
small litigation law firm in Atlanta. The firm,
McAlpin & Henson, specializes in securities
litigation, construction litigation, and personal
injury cases. Henson is also an adjunct professor
of construction law at Georgia State Universi-
ty’s law school. He lives in Atlanta with his wife
and their three daughters.

WALTER D. KELLEY JR. is a partner in the
Norfolk, Va., law firm of Willcox & Savage and
is chairman of the Virginia State Bar's section
on antitrust, franchise, and trade regulation law.
He and his wife, Jennifer, have a 1-year-old
daughter, Catherine.

ROBERT W. PRESTON sells real estate in
Maryland for Prudential Preferred Properties.
He lives in Baltimore.

Digital Recorders Inc. has
named BRUCE R.
THOMAS vice president
"= of marketing. He had been
commercial bus sales
manager for Thomas Built
Buses Inc. in High Point,
N.C. Thomas will continue
to live in High Point, N.C.,
with his wife, Cindy, and their two children,
Rustin and Tory.

GREGORY S. WALDEN has joined the Of-
fice of the White House Counsel, where he is
associate counsel to President George Bush. He
had been chief counsel of the Federal Aviation
Administration. He lives in Alexandria, Va.

GLEN A. WASHINGTON has joined North-
east Georgia Medical Center as vice president
for professional services. He lives in Gaines-

ville, Ga.

9 7 Ne. KEITH D. BOYETTE has been
elected to the board of directors of

the Richmond law firm Hirschler, Fleischer,

Weinberg, Cox & Allen, where he is a share-

holder and head of one of four litigation teams.

RICHARD C. EVERETT
JR. has joined the Atlanta
advertising agency of
Pollak Levitt Chaeit as vice
president and management
supervisor. Previously, he
was vice president and ac-
count supervisor at BBDO,

+ Chicago, and senior ac-
count supervisor at Tatham-Laird & Kudner
in Chicago.

 

Astronaut G. DAVID LOW was scheduled to
fly aboard the space shuttle Discovery in June
1991. He flew in his first shuttle mission in
January 1990. Low lives in Houston.

CHARLES R. McELWEE II has been named
a partner in the international law firm of Squire,
Sanders & Dempsey. He works in the firm’s
Cleveland office and specializes in energy
regulatory and environmental matters.

MICHAEL J. MISSAL has become a member
of the Washington, D.C., law firm Kirkpatrick
& Lockhart. He specializes in the areas of
securities litigation matters and Securities and
Exchange Commission enforcement.

WILLIAM G. TAYLOR is vice president for
finance of The Springs Co., an investment com-
pany in Lancaster, S.C. He and his wife, Lee,
and their daughters, Austin, 3, and Mary Brown,
1, live in Charlotte.

  
  

 

managing partner

is a specialist in corporate
finance and_ securities,
health care, and taxation
law. He is president of the
Younger Lawyers Associa-
tion of the Georgia Bar Association and has serv-

ed as an officer of the Atlanta Council of —

Younger Lawyers.

DR. DAVID R. SCOTT has been named a

ag ila

fellow of the American Board of Obstetrics and —

Gynecology. He is in private practice in —
Nassawadox, Va., where he lives with his wife _

and three daughters.

80

children live in Greencastle, Ind., where he is
the Midwest sales manager for Metal Industries.

CAPT. RICHARD J. ALLEN JR.,

LESLIE A. COTTER JR. has been nameda |

partner in the law firm of Richardson, Plowden,

Grier & Howser. He specializes in tort and in-

24

his wife, Cynthia, and their two —

surance litigation, products liability, and health- |

care industry defense. Cotter lives in Colum-

bia, S.C.

81

DEBORAH HUGHES CRUZE is _

a judge pro tempore for the Glen- _

dale, Ariz., city court system. She also teaches —

business law and juvenile justice courses at
Arizona State University West. She and her hus-
band, Gary, have three children: Melissa Anne, ~

Aaron, and Rebecca.

9 7 9 STANLEY G. BRADING JR. has
joined the Atlanta law firm of Swift,

Currie, McGhee & Hiers
asa partner. He had been —
of &
Brading & Hicks. Brading

a

 

ROBERT R. FRANTZ has joined Signet Bank
as a commercial loan officer in Roanoke.
Previously, he was employed by NCNB Na-
tional Bank of Florida and was president of his
own business. Frantz lives in Salem, Va.

BRIAN M. GINSBURG is assistant corporate
counsel with Met Path Inc. He lives in
Westfield, N.J.

REBECCA D. GRAVES has become of
counsel to the law firm of McGuire, Woods,
Battle & Boothe. She specializes in banking and
financing law in the firm’s Richmond office.

A. WILLIAM MACKIE is a trial attorney with
the U.S. Department of Justice in Washington,
D.C. He lives in Rockville, Md.

MAC E. REIN JR. is treasurer of The Rein
Co., an insurance brokerage firm in Bethesda,
Md. He lives in Annandale, Va.

9 & 2 PAUL M. BLACK has joined the

Roanoke law firm of Wetherington
& Melchionna as an
associate. He practices in
the areas of commercial
and business litigation,
creditors’ rights, and
bankruptcy. Previously he
was with the Richmond law
firm of Mays & Valentine.

 

WILLIAM F. L. BROWN works for a new
family business which imports spices and oils.
He and his wife, Mary, live in Tampa, Fla., with
their son, Cooper.

EDMUND P. PERRY is corporate counsel
with Sonat Inc., an interstate natural gas pipeline
and energy services company in Birming-
ham, Ala.

PATRICIA SINSKEY WYNN lives with her
husband and their twins in Mercer Island, Wash.
She is general counsel for family businesses,
including Robert Sinskey Vineyards in Napa,
Calif.

"83 JOHN P. FISHWICK JR. has
formed a new law practice, Fish-
wick and Jones, in Roanoke.

E. S. (CHIP) FORRESTER JR. is president-
elect of the young lawyers’ division of the Mem-
phis (Tenn.) Bar Association. He lives in
Memphis.

CAPT. KEITH E. GORETZKA graduated in
December 1990 with a master of arts degree
in Christian education from the Southern Bap-

 

 

  

Works To Save Son’s Life

Five-year-old Andrew Slay is a
spunky, active 5-year-old with lots of
friends and plenty of energy. But he
can’t walk, and he can’t even stand
without help. He spends his days con-
fined to a wheelchair.

Andrew has spinal muscular
atrophy, a neuromuscular disorder
that, in its most acute form, is the
number-one inherited killer of
children under the age of 2. A few
years ago, when he was diagnosed,
the outlook for Andrew was grim in-
deed. But today it’s a little more
hopeful—thanks in part to the efforts
of his dad, Joe Slay, ’72.

Slay is raising funds to support the
work of researchers at Columbia
University, who are close to finding
the gene that causes SMA. “‘When
work began in 1987, all that was
known was that the faulty gene lay in
one of three billion possible loca-
tions,’’ Slay explains. ‘‘Now they’ve
got the possible locations down to just
two million. In gene hunting, this is
known as ‘striking distance.’ So, we’re
very close to a big win.”

Five-year-old Andrew Slay
(left) and his father, Joe
Slay, ‘72

Once scientists locate the gene,
Slay says, they can correct the
resulting protein abnormality and
develop treatments.

The research is being supported
by the Muscular Dystrophy Associa-
tion and the National Institutes of
Health. But additional funding could
make the work go three times faster.

That’s where Slay comes in.
Though he has a full-time job as presi-
dent of Martin Public Relations in
Richmond, he spends most of his free
moments promoting the research that
could save his child’s life.

Slay is seeking donations both
from individuals and from corporate
donors. ‘‘I’d like to find a corporation
that wants to identify itself, in a big
way, with this effort,” he says.

Contributions may be sent to the
Muscular Dystrophy Association,
1904 Byrd Avenue, Richmond, VA
23230. Checks should be made out
to ‘Muscular Dystrophy Associa-
tion,’”’ and in the check’s memo line
should appear the words, ‘An-
drew/SMA research.”

 

 

W&L 49

tist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Ky. He
is continuing his studies at the seminary.

WILLIAM L. HIGGS has been named a part-
ner in the law firm of Rosenn, Jenkins & Green-

wald in Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

*®& 4 MARTIN J. BECHTOLD is
associate director of the pavilion at

the University of Illinois at Chicago. Previous-

ly, he was the events and promotions coor-

dinator of Stabler Arena at Lehigh University.

He and his wife, Naomi, live in Oak Park, III.

ROBERT B. CAVE is a buyer for Hecht’s
department store in Arlington, Va.

JAMES C. CLARK has returned home to Short
Hills, N.J., to work for Kidder Peabody in its
Morristown, N.J., office.

GRAEME L. CURRIE lives in Los Angeles

with his wife, Monica Auzenne-Currie.

PERRY L. GOODBAR has been named assis-
tant sales director for the Broadmoor resort in
Colorado Springs, Colo. He is responsible for
hotel sales in the Washington, D.C., associa-
tion market.

MARY MILLER JOHNSTON is a partner in
the law firm of Morris, James, Hitchens &
Williams in Wilmington, Del.

ROSS S. LYNDE is an artist in San Francisco.

9 bs 5 JAMES T. BERRY JR. is a
manager in the audit practice of
Coopers & Lybrand in Dallas.

JEFFERSON M. BOSWELL is the financial
officer of The Abalone Farm Inc., an aquacul-
ture company. He lives in San Luis Obis-
po, Calif.

THOMAS M. BUTLER is an attorney with the
Natural Resources Cabinet of the Common-
wealth of Kentucky. During the past year, he
has appeared in several theatrical productions,
including Cinderella, Love’s Labors Lost, Henry
V, and Dracula. Butler lives in Lexington, Ky.

HARRY W. GOLLIDAY has been elected vice
president at First Wachovia Corporate Services
in Winston-Salem, N.C. He is a loan administra-
tion officer in the U.S. corporate group.

TODD D. JONES and ROBERT A. VIEN-
NEAU, ’87, ’90L, presented a musical concert
at Denver's Cherry Hill Country Club in March.
They are attorneys with the law firm of
Klinedinst & Flichman in San Diego.

CLARK H. LEWIS graduated from the Univer-
sity of Virginia School of Law in May 1990 and
is now an attorney with the Richmond firm of
Mays & Valentine.

50 W&L

THOMAS N. McKINSTRY has been elected
vice president of First Wachovia Corporate Ser-
vices in Raleigh, N.C. He is manager of the
Raleigh international office.

PETER G. ZEMANIAN has become a mem-
ber of the law firm of Willcox & Savage in Nor-
folk, Va. He joined the firm in 1985 and
specializes in bankruptcy law and the rights
of creditors.

9 Ss 6 MICHAEL K. BAYER has joined

Snelling & Snelling Personnel Ser-
vices in Chicago. He is a personnel consultant
specializing in the recruitment of office support
staff and sales professionals. He lives in Lin-

coln Park, Ill.
C. FREDERICK BENTLEY III is vice presi-

dent and controller of Australian Capital Equi-
ty (USA) Inc. in New York City. The firm is
the U.S. subsidiary of a private holding com-
pany based in Perth, Western Australia. The
company manages current U.S. holdings and
reviews potential acquisitions.

LAURANCE C. BOYD has earned a master’s
degree in international management from the
American Graduate School of International
Management (Thunderbird) in Glendale, Ariz.
He lives in Phoenix, Ariz.

C. BRITT COURTNEY is pursuing a master’s
degree in business administration at the College
of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Va.

1ST LT. SAMUEL R. DAWSON recently
completed two and a half years in Korea as a
helicopter pilot and platoon leader. He now at-
tends the aviation officer advanced course at
Fort Rucker, Ala. After he completes the
course, he plans to remain at Fort Rucker as
an instructor pilot.

J. CAULLEY DERINGER received the 1989
Multi-Million Dollar Commercial Leasing Club
Award from the Washington, D.C., Association
of Realtors for his work with Carey Winston Co.

He recently ran in a marathon sponsored by the
U.S. Marine Corps.

PAUL L. FEAREY received a master’s degree
in business administration from the College of
William and Mary in May.

DANIEL J. O'CONNOR III is pursuing a
master’s degree in government at the Universi-
ty of Virginia’ss Woodrow Wilson Department
of Government and Foreign Affairs. He began
the program last August.

JOSEPH T. PHOENIX is a regional banking
coordinator with The Putnam Cos. He lives in
Chicago.

TOWNES G. PRESSLER graduated from the
University of Texas graduate school of business
in May. He and his wife, Kathleen, planned to
move to New York this summer, where he ac-
cepted a position as a corporate finance
associate for Kidder Peabody.

*& 7 JAMES H. BARKER III works in
Miami, where he is a clerk for Judge

Peter T. Fay of the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the 1ith Circuit. He plans to join the
Washington, D.C., office of Latham & Watkins
in October.

KEVIN P. COPE is an associate product
manager at Security Pacific Merchant Bank. He
lives in New York City.

DAVID G. HAMMOND is an attorney with
the firm of Spilman, Thomas, Battle & Klos-
termeyer in Charleston, W.Va.

THOMAS G. KNIGHT completed the 1990
fiscal year at Centel as a second-time President's
Award winner for having sold $2 million worth
of PBX equipment. Knight is ranked third out
of 175 Centel salespeople nationwide. He lives
in Chicago.

1ST LT. ALEJANDRO LOPEZ-DUKE
served with the U.S. Army’s 12th Evacuation
Hospital during the Persian Gulf War.

ROBERT A. VIENNEAU (See TODD D.

JONES, °85).
ETIENNE D. CAMBON IV is a

"88
commercial banking officer with

the First National Bank of Maryland. He lives
in Annapolis, Md.

JOHN M. GORLOWSKI is pursuing a medical
degree at Temple University in Philadelphia.

JOHN D. MARKLEY JR. lives in Hong Kong,
where he works with Kidder Peabody in Asia-
Pacific investment banking.

LOUISE PHIPPS SENFT practices law with
Whiteford, Taylor & Preston in Baltimore.

CRAIG M. SMITH is pursuing a master’s
degree in secondary English education at
Appalachian State University. He lives in

Boone, N.C.

9 89 L. BRADFORD BRAFORD isan
associate with the Harrisonburg,

V

a., law firm of Clark & Bradshaw.

CHRISTOPHER C. BRAND is a law student
at Willamette University in Salem, Ore.

W. SEAN BUGG works for OPASTCO, a

telephone company trade association in
Washington, D.C. He had been assistant press

secretary for a mayoral campaign in Washington.
He lives in Arlington, Va.

MONICA M. BURKE has completed her sec-
ond year studying theatre management at Co-
jumbia University. She also works with New

York producer JACK McQUIGGAN, ’°56.

JASON R. HODGES and MEREDITH
WALKER HODGES have moved to Atlanta,
where he is an agent with Delta Airlines and
she is the economic development presentation
coordinator for Georgia Power Co.

THOMAS M. KOCH is an accountant for
Krebs & Co. in Columbus, Ohio, where he lives
with his wife, Marjorie.

W. WESTON NEWTON has finished his first
year at Cumberland School of Law in Bir-
mingham, Ala.

ALAN K. RAGAN has been promoted to
lieutenant commander in the U.S. Naval Re-
serve. He is a member of the law firm of Marks,
Gray, Conroy & Gibbs in Jacksonville, Fla.

MICHAEL D. TEMPLE teaches history and
economics in grades nine and 12 and coaches
football and baseball at Savannah Country Day
School in Savannah, Ga.

9 () GRATTAN T. BROWN lives in

Bordeaux, France, where he works
for Telelangues Systems and teaches English
for the Association of Bordeaux Los Angeles.

ROBERT J. DADIO works as an auditor with
Crown Central Petroleum in Baltimore. He had
been with Price Waterhouse.

ANNA DENNIS is an attorney with the Long
Beach, Calif., law firm of Moore & Rutter.

JOHN S. GOLWEN is a clerk for Judge Bailey
Brown of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th
Circuit in Memphis, Tenn.

DAVID L. GOODE has been named an
associate in the Greensboro, N.C., law firm of
Adams, Kleemeier, Hagan, Hannah & Fouts.

JOHN T. MORRIS works in the emergency
room at Methodist South Hospital in Memphis,
Tenn. He plans to enter medical school this fall
at the University of Tennessee.

GREGORY J. OSSI is pursuing a master’s
degree in accounting at the University of
Virginia. In September, he will begin work in
the tax department at Ernest & Young in Nor-
folk, Va.

ANN STEWART is a manager with Victoria's
Secret stores in Atlanta.

ROBERT A. VIENNEAU (See TODD D.
JONES, ’85).

 

 

Whitlow Wyatt,

Making Shoes
For The Soldiers

When the conflict in the Persian
Gulf kicked into high gear, so did pro-
duction at the factories owned by W.
Whitlow Wyatt, ’70.

Wyatt is chairman and chief ex-
ecutive officer of Altama Delta Corp.,
the largest manufacturer of combat
boots for the U.S. Department
of Defense.

Altama Delta doubled its produc-
tion December through March with
a 30 percent employment increase
across the board at its three plants in
Darien, Ga.; Brunswick, Ga.; and
Salinas, Puerto Rico. The corporation
normally produces about 600,000
pairs of boots a year, one-fourth of the
total produced annually for the
Department of Defense.

“They have taken care of us for
years, as far as being our best
customer, so we really rallied around
production because we knew
everything was going straight to the
Persian Gulf,’’ Wyatt says.

‘“‘We also had a number of people
with family over there and a few guys
who got called up straight from the
plants. It really did make us feel we
were making a contribution, and it
helped boost the morale of our
employees, too.”

Wyatt says it was quite a feeling
to know that one out of every three
or four Americans involved in the
conflict was wearing boots produced
by his company. It was even more
remarkable, he added, that half of the
boots over there had a Washington
and Lee connection. Belleville Shoes
of Belleville, Ill., is owned by Homer
Wiedmann, ’39, and operated by his
son. Together the two companies pro-

——
———
nm

aloe

hill

Whitlow Wyatt laces up one of the combat
boots produced by his company, Altama Delta
Corp. (Photo by Bard Wrisley, ’73)

duced exactly half the combat boots
used in Operation Desert Shield and
Desert Storm.

The boots used in the Persian Gulf
conflict were different from standard-
issue combat boots, Wyatt says. The
Army laboratory modified the black-
and-green jungle boot and designed
the desert boot, which went into pro-
duction in December.

The desert boot is made with
fleshed-out, tan leather, Wyatt ex-
plains. The vents and metal rein-
forcements from the standard issue
were eliminated, and a cushiony
piece called the heat barrier was add-
ed to help keep the desert heat off the
soldiers’ feet.

“They’re actually quite hand-
some,”’ Wyatt says. ‘‘They’ve been
very popular in the civilian market
already as a hunting boot.”

Although Altama Delta primarily
manufactures boots for military con-
tracts, it also sells boots to domestic
civilian users and foreign markets.
Wyatt Holdings Inc. acquired the cor-
poration in 1987.

—by Marcy Brown, ’92

 

 

 

W&L

51

 

 

 

Marriages

C. TAIT TRUSSELL, °49, and Nancy
Rathbun Billington on Dec. 19, 1990. The cou-
ple lives in Eustis, Fla., and Trussell writes a
weekly column for the Leesburg, Fla., Daily
Commercial.

 

G. E. (PETER) SUMMERS, ’64, and Ann
Gennet Robinson on Nov. 3, 1990. Summers
is associated with Alex Brown & Sons in West
Palm Beach, Fla.

N. TAYLOR CARLSON, ’68, and Claire
Plunkett on Feb. 16, 1991. The couple lives
in Boca Raton, Fla.

JONATHAN W. PINE JR.,’79, and Corby L.
Hancock on July 28, 1990, in Winchester, Va.
John N. Wall, °79, was a member of the wed-
ding party. The couple lives in Baltimore.

ROBERT G. McLUSKY, ’81L, and Deborah
A. Sink on Oct. 27, 1990, at Glade Springs,
W.Va. McLusky is a partner with the law firm
of Jackson and Kelly in Charleston, W.Va.,
where he practices environmental law.

MELISSA J. WARNER, ’81L, and the Rev.
H. D. Scoggins on Aug. 18, 1990. The couple
lives in Roanoke, where she is an attorney with
Gentry, Locke, Rakes & Moore and specializes
in appellate law.

J. CABELL ACREE III, ’82, and Kassy Neely
on Dec. 29, 1990, in Lexington. The couple
lives in Houston.

J. ANDREW LARK, ’82L, and Kay C. Rouse
-on March 2, 1991. The couple lives in Glen
Rock, N.]J.

STEVEN A. DAUB, ’83, and Joyce E. Borth-
wick on Nov. 10, 1990, in Alexandria, Va. The
couple lives in Minneapolis, where Daub is a
market research analyst with General Mills.

MICHAEL H. LEWERS, ’83, and Patricia A.
Wainwright on Sept. 29, 1990. Groomsmen in-
cluded Thomas C. Gentner, ’83, and A. Den-
ney Cancelmo, °83. The couple lives in
Royersford, Pa.

FRED H. RINDGE V, ’83, and Brenda C.
Brady on Dec. 30, 1990. Both are copy editors
with the Charleston, S.C., News @ Courter.

DR. JOHN D. LONG, ’85, and Connie Ann
_ Hunsucker on Oct. 26, 1990, in Woodbury,
N.Y. The couple lives in Mineola, N.Y., where
Long is a resident physician in internal medicine
at Winthrop-University Hospital.

CHRISTOPHER A. BLEGGI, °86, and
Michelle A. Mir on Oct. 6, 1990. Alumni in the
wedding party included Timothy A. Janyska,

we. WE

’86, and Robert E. Wilson Jr., 87. The couple
lives in Erie, Pa., where Bleggi is assistant opera-
tions manager and design engineer at Erie Crate
and Manufacturing Co.

GUY A. CALDWELL, ’86, and Kimberlee A.
Neifer on Oct. 12, 1990. They live in Knox-
ville, Tenn., where they are candidates for the
Ph.D. in molecular biology.

GILBERT R. LADD IV, °87, and Nancy
Kirchberger on Aug. 25, 1990, in Birmingham,
Mich. The wedding party included Banks C.
Ladd, ’89, and Allen H. Ladd, 90. Ladd grad-
uated from Vanderbilt Medical School in May
1991 and plans to enter a residency in psy-
chiatry. The couple lives in Birmingham, Ala.

DEBORAH E. HATTES, ’89, and Vladimir A.
Kulyukin on Jan. 12, 1991, in Moscow. The
groom was a Soviet exchange student at W&L
during the 1988-89 school year. He is now a
professor of Norwegian and English at the
Moscow State Linguistic University. The bride
is a student in American diplomatic history at
Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y.

ELIZABETH P. MURTAGH, ’89L, and
ROSS S. HAINE, ’88L, on Sept. 8, 1990, in
Lexington. Monica S. Chernin, ’88L, was the
maid of honor, and W. C. (Burr) Datz, ’75, pro-
vided the music. Both Murtagh and Haine work
for the public defender’s office in Jackson-
ville, Fla.

 

Births

 

 

 

MR. AND MRS. JOHN R. C. STEPHENS
JR., 59, a son, Colin Parker, on Aug. 23, 1990.
The family lives in Spokane, Wash., where
Stephens owns Tax & Investment Planning
Services.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT M. BUXTON,
69, a son, Nicholas Sherman, on June 9, 1990.
The family lives in New York City.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES H. CLAPP, ’73, a
daughter, Regina Routzahn, by adoption. She
was born Feb. 22, 1990, and joins a brother,
Reid, 4. The family lives in Frederick, Md.,
where Clapp practices law with Shoemaker,
Horman & Clapp.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN V. LITTLE, ’73, a
daughter, Elizabeth Stewart, in Charlottesville,
Va., on July 23, 1990. Little is a partner in the
Charlottesville law firm of Michie, Hamlett,
Lowry, Rasmussen & Tweel.

MR. AND MRS. CHANNING J. MARTIN,
‘75, °79L, a son, Andrew Channing, on Aug.
10, 1990. He joins Lee, 8, and Laura, 6. Mar-
tin, his wife, Blair, and their family live in Rich-
mond, where he is head of the environmental
law section of the firm Williams, Mullen, Chris-
tian & Dobbins.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM A. WALLACE,
°75, a son, Daniel Hedrich, on Jan. 9, 1991,
He joins a sister, Sarah, 2. The family lives in
Oak Park, III.

THE REV. AND MRS. PHILIP H.
POCKRAS, ’76, a son, Isaac Laurence, on Jan.
7, 1991. He joins a brother, Nathaniel John.
Pockras is pastor of the Reformed Presbyterian
Church in Belle Center, Ohio, and recently was
elected parliamentarian for his synod.

DR. AND MRS. GARY W. SELDOM- —
RIDGE, ’76, a son, Benjamin Paul, on Nov. —
2, 1990. He joins a brother, Tyler. The family
lives in Lebanon, Pa., and Seldomridge is an
oral surgeon in nearby Lancaster, Pa.

MR. AND MRS. REID H. GRIFFIN, ’77, a _
son, Martin Hamilton, on Jan. 9, 1991. The —
family lives in Mission Viejo, Calif. ;

MR. AND MRS. CHRISTOPHER A. |
JOHNSON, ’77, a son, Christopher Jr., on May
4, 1990. He joins a sister, Caroline. The fami- —
ly lives in Bronxville, N.Y., where Johnson is
a vice president with Citicorp Securities
Markets Inc.

MR. AND MRS. CHARLES E. HINKLE,

78, their first child, a daughter, Frances —

Elizabeth, on May 14, 1990. The family lives
in Temple, Texas.

MR. AND MRS. BENJAMIN I. JOHNS JR.,
’78, a son, Bowman Bates, on Dec. 15, 1990.
He joins a brother, Benjamin Tucker. ‘The fami-
ly lives in Bacova, Va. |

MR. AND MRS. W. GORDON ROSS II, ’78,
a son, Henry Lawrence, on Jan. 29, 1991. Ross

and his wife, Caren, and their son live in New  —

York City.

MR. AND MRS. J. LAWRENCE CONNOL- |
LY, ’79, a son, Jay, on Dec. 12, 1990. The
family lives in Stamford, Conn.

MR. AND MRS. K. JOSEPH COSGROVE,
‘79L, their third son, Stephen Brandon, on Oct.
12, 1990. The family lives in Chesapeake, Va.

MR. AND MRS. KEVIN R. BELL, ’81, a
daughter, Tobin Loughlin, on Oct. 20, 1990.
The family lives in Baltimore.

NANCY CAMPBELL HALVERSTADT,
°81L, and Loren T. Halverstadt Jr., a daughter,
Kaitlin Marie, on Jan. 4, 1991. The family lives
in Poway, Calif.

 

MR. AND MRS. N. JEFFREY HERDELIN,
81. cwin sons, Christian Price and Kendall
Barnes, on Lee’s birthday—Jan. 19, 1991. They
join a brother, Skip, 3. Herdelin is a consultant
with J. C. Malone Associates, a search and
recruiting firm in Louisville, Ky.

JENELLE MIMS MARSH, ’81L, and GENE
A. MARSH, ’81L, a son, Elliott Shelton, on
Oct. 25, 1990. He joins a brother, Nathaniel
Davis, 2. Gene Marsh is director of the honors
program at the University of Alabama, where
Jenelle Marsh also works. The family lives in
Tuscaloosa.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT B. NEELY, ’81,
a daughter, Randall Blair, on Dec. 3, 1990. She
joins a brother, Robert, 3. The family lives in
Dallas, where Neely is a principal in TCP Ac-
quisitions Inc., a real estate acquisition firm. He
is also president of Texas Commercial Proper-
ties Inc.

MR. AND MRS. J. ROSS NEWELL III, ’81,
’85L, a daughter, Elizabeth Robertson, on Jan.
20, 1991. Newell recently was named a part-
ner in the Staunton, Va., law firm of
Timberlake, Smith, Thomas & Moses. The
family lives in Staunton.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN E. FOWLER II, ’82,
a son, John Eliot III, on Oct. 11, 1990. He joins
a sister, Mary Louise, 3. The family lives in An-
dover, Mass.

PATRICIA REED BLACK, ’84L, and Harold
A. Black, their first child, Davy, on Sept. 4,
1990. The family lives in Goode, Va., where
Black is a partner in the law firm of Edmunds
& Williams.

MR. AND MRS. TODD D. BROWN, ’85,
a daughter, Carol Anne, on June 1, 1990. Brown
and his wife, Michelle, and their daughter live

in Culpeper, Va., where he is an investment
planner for Edward D. Jones & Co.

CHERYL BOGGS WALSH, ’85L, and E. Jef-
frey Walsh, a son, Connor Edward, in May
1990. He joins a sister, Keely Lynn, 2. The
family lives in Phoenix, Ariz., where Walsh is

director of professional services at the firm of
Shell & Wilmer.

KAREN DAVIS CUNNINGHAM, ’86L, and
Thomas B. Cunningham, a daughter, Kathleen
Elizabeth, on March 10, 1990. The family lives
in Akron, Ohio, and Cunningham is an assis-
tant professor of peace and conflict studies at
Kent State University.

MR. AND MRS. DONALD E. WILLIAMS
JR., 86L, a daughter, Nina Elizabeth, on Aug.
21, 1990. The family lives in Thompson,
Conn., and Williams is an attorney in the Put-
nam, Conn., law firm of Boland, St. Onge &
Brouillard.

 

In Memoriam

 

 

 

DAVID C. STOREY, ’21, retired district con-
tracting manager for the American Bridge Divi-
sion of U.S. Steel, died March 31, 1991, in
Atlanta, where he had lived since 1949. He had
been a member of Atlanta’s Downtown Rotary
Club and Peachtree Presbyterian Church.

W. HENRY TROTTER JR., 22, retired Chat-
tanooga, Tenn., insurance executive, died Jan.
1, 1991. He received a bachelor of science
degree from Harvard University in 1924 and in
1926 entered the insurance business in Chat-
tanooga. He was chairman of the board of ‘Trot-
ter, Boyd & Keese Inc. and was past president
of his Rotary Club and of the Mountain City
Club. In 1984 he was named Man of the Year
by the Chattanooga Kiwanis Club.

H. OGDEN SHROPSHIRE, ’24, a retired in-
vestment banker from Mobile, Ala., died Nov.
21, 1990. After leaving W&L he received two
bachelor’s degrees from the University of
Alabama and joined the investment securities
firm of Ward, Sterne & Co. in Birmingham, Ala.
He went to work for First National Bank in
Mobile, Ala., in 1936 and started his own in-
vestment banking business, Shropshire & Co.,
in 1939. He served as president of the local
Rotary Club.

JOHN D. MAYHEW, °26, died March 28,
1991, in Towson, Md. In 1968 he retired from
the United States Fidelity and Guaranty Co. in
Baltimore after a 40-year career. He then
became general manager at the Green Mount
Cemetery in Baltimore until his second retire-
ment in 1983 at the age of 80. He was a
member of ‘Trinity Episcopal Church in
‘Towson, Md., and a former member of the
Lions Club.

RICHARD S. BARNETT JR., ’27, Arkansas
agricultural and civic leader, died Feb. 4, 1991.
He was retired president and general manager
of Elms Planting Co. in Altheimer, Ark., and
retired president of B. N. Word Co. and B. N.
Word Gin Co. in Wabbaseka, Ark., and of
Southern Compress in Pine Bluff, Ark. He was
the last survivor of the original five members
of the Ben J. Altheimer Foundation, which has
donated several million dollars to the Universi-
ty of Arkansas and to public institutions in Jef-
ferson County, Ark. He was a former member
of the Arkansas Highway Commission, former
mayor of Altheimer, retired president of the
First National Bank of Altheimer, and a retired
director of the National Bank of Commerce in
Pine Bluff. Barnett held an honorary law degree
from the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville
and had received many agriculture awards.

TOM BROWN, °’29, died Jan. 26, 1990, in
Kingston, Tenn.

CHARLES H. BLAKE, ’32, retired director
and choreographer, died Oct. 11, 1990. He had
lived in New York City. He appeared in several
films in the 1940s, including United Artists’ Her
Sister's Secret and Bedside Manner and California
Studios’ 7he Red Wagon. During his career he
produced and directed more than 200 musicals
and dramatic events throughout the nation and
abroad. He was also company manager for a na- '
tional tour of Fiddler on the Roof and was a con-
sultant to several ballet companies.

ZEBULON V. JOHNSON JR., °32, Danville,
Va., attorney, died March 17, 1991, in Dan-
ville. A graduate of the University of Richmond
and the T. C. Williams School of Law, Johnson,
served during World War II in the judge ad-
vocate general's office in Hawaii. He had a
general law practice in Danville and served as
commissioner of accounts in that city until his
retirement in 1981. He was founder of the
McNeill Law Society for honor students at the
University of Richmond. Johnson was a mem-:
ber of the Episcopal Church of the Epiphany,
where he served several terms on the vestry.

BILLY BLANKS NOELKE, ’32, Crockett
County, Texas, rancher, died Feb. 9, 1991, in
San Angelo, Texas. He had worked briefly for
San Angelo National Bank before becoming
a rancher. |

DR. LESLIE A. FAUDREE, ’34, a retired
physician from Bassett, Va., died Feb. 8, 1991.
He graduated from the University of Virginia’s
medical school in 1939 and served with the U.S.
Army during World War II. He was a member
of the Virginia Medical Society and the Bassett
Kiwanis Club.

EDWARD L. SEITZ, °36, retired production
supervisor for Du Pont, Belle, died Jan. 11,
1991, in Charleston, W.Va. He was a member
of First Presbyterian Church in Charleston, the
Elks Lodge, and the University Club. He was
an active wrestling official for 25 years and
served as a wrestling coach at his church and ,
the Kanawha City Recreation Center.

JAMES RANDOLPH RUTH, ’37, former
president of Corsicana Food Services Inc. and
purchasing agent for Navarro College in Cor-
sicana, Texas, died Nov. 12, 1990. He was ac-
tive with Community Chest, Little League
baseball, and Campfire Girls in Corsicana and
had been a member of the vestry of St. John’s
Episcopal Church. He was involved in all phases
of the food service industry and owned and
operated a Mexican restaurant for many years.

W&L_ 53

WILBUR THOMAS SMITH, ’37, died March
14, 1990.

THE REV. WILLIAM McCLELLAND JR.,
’39, retired Episcopal rector, died Oct. 30,
1990, in Cornelia, Ga. He earned a bachelor
of arts degree from St. John’s College in An-
napolis, Md., in 1940 and a bachelor of divini-
ty degree from the School of Theology at the
University of the South in 1944. He served
churches in Pennsylvania and New York and
retired in 1977 as rector of St. David's Episcopal
Church in Roswell, Ga.

SAMUEL L. MacCORKLE, ’*40L, longtime
Kanawha County, W.Va., Democratic leader,
died Jan. 24, 1991, in Charleston, W.Va. Mac-
Corkle was a retired attorney for the firm of
Savage, Goshorn, MacCorkle & Rippitoe and
a member of First Presbyterian Church in
Charleston. He attended Princeton University
and West Virginia University and was an Army
veteran. He served as Kanawha County assessor
from 1958 to 1964. Last year, he was elected
chairman of the Kanawha County Demo-
cratic Party.

ROBERT MARTIN GREGERSON, °41, an
energy consultant in Highland Beach, Fla., died
Nov. 28, 1989.

 

JOSEPH TALLIAFERRO LYKES JR., ’41,
former president of Lykes Bros. Steamship Co.
in New Orleans and an emeritus trustee of
Washington and Lee, died April 30, 1991, in
Metairie, La. He served in the U.S. Navy dur-
ing World War II and reached the rank of lieute-
nant commander. After the war he went to work
for Lykes Bros., which his father founded, in
New Orleans; Galveston, ‘Texas; Mobile, Ala.;
and Tampa, Fla. He was named a vice presi-
dent and was appointed to the board of direc-
tors in 1952; a decade later, he was elected
president. He became chairman of the board
and chief executive officer in 1967 and retired
in 1981. He was instrumental in acquiring
Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co. in 1968,
which led to the creation of Lykes Corp. in
‘Tampa. He was chairman of the corporation un-
til it merged with. LTV in 1978. The New
Orleans Propeller Club named him Maritime
Man of the Year in 1967; and in 1979 he re-
ceived the Admiral of the Ocean Sea Award,
in recognition of his service to the Merchant

54 W&L

Marine. When he was elected to Washington
and Lee’s Board of Trustees in 1964, he suc-
ceeded his father, J. T. Lykes Sr., 09, who was
a trustee for 23 years. The younger Lykes
retired from the Board in 1979. He was a direc-
tor of the Chamber of Commerce and the New
Orleans Steamship Association and was a
member of the Metairie Country Club and the
Boston Club.

URIAH GREY FLOWERS, °43, an attorney
and insurance agent in Jackson, Miss., died
Nov. 28, 1990. Flowers was a chartered life
underwriter for Connecticut Mutual Life In-
surance, practiced law, and operated Ceres
Plantation in Flowers, Miss. He also had served
as president of the Mississippi chapter of the
American Society of Chartered Life Under-
writers. He held a law degree from the Univer-
sity of Mississippi. Flowers was named “Man
of the Year” by Massachusetts Mutual Life for
eight of 12 years before becoming a general
agent with Connecticut Mutual. He was a
member of the Hinds County, Mississippi State,
and American bar associations, the Mississippi
Bar Foundation, the Christian Business Men’s
Association, the Capital City Petroleum Club,
and the University Club.

JAMES WILLIAM FUNK, °43, ’49L, died
Sept. 25, 1990. He held a law degree from In-
diana University and practiced for many years
in Vincennes, Ind. He served as a judge in
Vincennes City Court for three years and as
deputy prosecuting attorney for more than a
decade. Funk was active with the YMCA, the
Rotary Club, and the Elks.

RICHARD JAMES HOUSKA, °43, a San
Diego journalist, died Dec. 15, 1990. He served
with the U.S. Army Air Forces for three years
during World War II.

DR. RICHARD H. SHEPARD, ’43, a Johns
Hopkins University physician and researcher
who was a pioneer in the use of computers for
medical research, died Jan. 30, 1991, at his
home in Boulder, Colo. He was professor of
biomedical engineering, physiology, and en-
vironmental health services and an associate
professor of medicine at the Johns Hopkins
Medical Institutions, where he taught and
published papers about the physiology of the
lungs. Shepard was the first to introduce com-
puters to the Hopkins medical school. He
received his medical degree from that school
in 1946 and served in the U.S. Navy from 1947
to 1949. He returned to Hopkins as a fellow
in 1950 after spending a year at the University
of Pennsylvania. From 1961 until 1975 he
directed Hopkins’ medical computing center,
which was sponsored by the National Institutes
of Health. After his gradual retirement from the
schools of medicine and public health, Shepard

became an associate archivist in the medical ar-
chives division of the Johns Hopkins Medical
Institutions. He moved to Boulder in
March 1990.

CHARLES E. SAVEDGE, °44, died Dec. 5,
1990. For many years he served as headmaster
and dean of students and taught science and
journalism at Augusta Military Academy in Fort
Defiance, Va. In 1978 he was named National
High School Journalism Teacher of the Year.
He was past president of the Columbia
Scholastic Press Advisers Association and
received awards from the Journalism Education
Association and the National Scholastic Press
Association.

DR. ROBERT HAMMILL WILLIAMS JR.,
48, of Teaneck, N.J., died Jan. 9, 1991.

THOMAS DUPUY GILLIAM JR., ’50,
Statesville, N.C., furniture executive, died Nov.
29, 1990. He was president of the Thomas D.
Gilliam Co., which he founded, and was a fur-
niture importer. He served in the U.S. Army
from 1950 to 1952 in the European theatre and
was a top honor graduate of the Non-
Commissioned Officers Academy in Munich,
Germany. From 1952 to 1965 he was executive
vice president and sales manager of Gilliam Fur-
niture Co. and was director of merchandising
for the upholstery division of Drexel Furniture
from 1966 to 1969. A lifetime member of
Statesville’s Broad Street United Methodist
Church, he served on the church’s board and
was president of the Christian family class and
founding president of the Methodist Men in
1962. He was a past president of his Kiwanis
Club and the Statesville City Club and was
president of the sales and marketing division of
the Southern Furniture Manufacturer's Associa-
tion. He was a former president of the
Statesville Red Cross and the founding presi-
dent of the Brookwood School.

WILLIAM EMMETT DANIEL JR., ’51,
retired Richmond insurance executive, died Jan.
18, 1991. He served in World War II with the
3rd Infantry Division, 15th Battalion. For 37
years prior to his retirement he was an executive
with State Farm Insurance Co. Daniel was a
member of the Keysville Masonic Lodge
AF&AM and the Scottish Rites and was a rul-
ing elder of River Road Presbyterian Church.

ALFRED WILSON POWELL JR.,’51, °53L,
a banker in Salem, Va., died Oct. 15, 1990.
He held a master’s degree in business ad-
ministration from the University of Virginia and
had taught business administration at Roanoke
College.

WILLIAM STANTON FISH, °55, a New
Albany, Ind., retailer, died Oct. 9, 1990.

CHARLES CLYDE HOBSON, °57L, died
March 31, 1991, in Robinson Creek, Ky.

DEREK MARTIN SCHOEN, ’57, a former
journalist and speechwriter, died April 2, 1991,
of injuries sustained in a car accident in
Hagerstown, Md. He worked for the Associated
Press in Sacramento, Calif., and San Francisco
before joining the AP’s Washington, D.C.,
bureau in 1964. He was bureau chief from 1966
to 1968, and from 1968 to 1970 he was a
Washington correspondent for the Newhouse
National News Service. Schoen was a
speechwriter with the Office of Economic Op-
portunity in Washington from 1970 to 1972,
when he became a speechwriter for Health,
Education, and Welfare Secretary Elliot
Richardson. He was branch manager for Social
Security in Hagerstown from 1973 to 1976 and
then became a public relations officer and senior
writer for HEW in Washington. From 1979 un-
til his retirement in 1987 Schoen was regional
director in Chicago for the Department of
Health and Human Services’ Office of Refugee
Resettlement.

GEORGE DODGEN KING JR., ’58, ’63L, ac-
counting firm president and Gadsden, Ala., civic
leader, died Feb. 8, 1991. He was president
of the certified public accounting firm founded
by his father in 1926 and president of King
Mountain Farm. A native of Gadsden, he served
in the U.S. Army as a tank commander, attain-
ing the rank of captain. King was a member of
the Gadsden Rotary Club and the American
Society of Certified Public Accountants and a
former director of Alabama City Bank. He was
also a member of the Penguin-Polar Bear Socie-
ty, a group of 150 people who flew around the
world in 1976 and set a world speed record.

FREDERIC ORR WILLIAMS, ’60, vice presi-
dent and western regional manager for the
American Express Travelers Cheque Group in
San Francisco, died Oct. 25, 1990. He lived
in San Rafael, Calif.

FRANK GRIER WAKEFIELD, ’66, died Feb.
13, 1991. He lived in Vero Beach, Fla.

ROBERT CHARLES TOEPEL, ’67, died
May 21, 1990.

STUART WARREN SNYDER, ’82, a
graduate student at the University of Maryland,
died Feb. 9, 1991, while playing in a hockey
game. He had worked in cancer research at Fort
Detrick, Md., and at the time of his death was
employed in research with the University of
Maryland Cancer Center. He was coauthor of
30 publications dealing with various aspects of
Cancer. He was a member of Trinity Lutheran
Church, the American Chemical Society, the
American Association for Cancer Research, and
the American Society of Clinical Oncology.

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS

 

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer
and dark pine stain. The five color crest of the University is painted on the
back of each chair or rocker. They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture
and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas, birthdays, graduation,
anni-versaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair goes to the
scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, '14.

ARM CHAIR BosTON ROCKER
© Black lacquer with cherry arms © Black lacquer

© Dark pine © Dark pine

$235.00 $220.00

 

TTHE BOSTON ROCKER REQUIRES SOME ASSEMBLY.

Prices include freight charges.

 

 

 

To order: Include your name, address, your telephone number, and a telephone
number, if known, for the delivery location. Indicate chair or rocker and color.
Make check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Please allow 6-8 weeks delivery.

Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

W&L

55

 

 

 

Hom

ecoming '9)

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

Friday, October 11

12:10 p.m.

12:30 p.m.

2:00 p.m.

6:30 p.m.

7:30 p.m.

The John Randolph Tucker Lecture

Luncheon for Five-Star Generals,

Alumni Board of Directors, Chapter Presi-
dents, Fraternity Representatives, and their
spouses

Homecoming Panel Discussion
"Robert E. Lee: Soldier and Educator”

Reception for all Alumni
Honoring the Five-Star Generals and the

1991 Homecoming Queen Court

Five-Star Generals’ Reunion Banquet

Saturday, October 12

9:30 a.m.

10:30 a.m.

11:00 a.m.

12:00 Noon

| 12:00 Noon

12:30 p.m.

2:00 p.m.

4:30 p.m.

Memorial Service Honoring the 12Ist
Anniversary of General Lee's Death

Concert: W&L Choral Ensembles
including JubiLee and Southern Comfort

Women's Volleyball vs. Goshen College

Fraternity Renaissance Rededication
Ceremony

Men's Soccer vs. Greensboro College

Alumni Luncheon
Entertainment by the Jim Caldwell Band

Football: Generals vs. Davidson

Alumni Reception

OCIVCBER
berg

 

 

Five-Star Generals’
Reunion

Cluster Reunion
For the Classes of 1988, '89,

ue ‘90, and '91 a

 

 

For more information write:

Homecoming ’91
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

 

DO YOU KNOW ANYONE

CLASS OF 1942

Albert G. Barrows
Rernard M. Bogue
Richard R. Boileau
Robert A. Cammack
Gordon W. Carlson
Edward C. Crook
Jack J. Doherty
William H. Dowling Jr.
Carl King

Bernard Levin
James W. Martin Jr.
Robert J. Murray
John H. Peacock
Harold C. Pierce Jr.
Edmund A. Samara
Joseph C. Shepard
Marion T. Simon
Thomas S. Sweeney
Bane T. Underwood
Charles M. Vandyke
Austin V. Wood Jr.
Peter S. Yager

CLASS OF 1947

Bernard D. Cox
Charles D. Hardesty Jr.
Ralph H. Jackson
James H. Johnson Jr.
Tage Munthe-Kaas
Robert C. Needham
Jack D. Reid

Eugenio M. Santaella
William Y. Smith

Dr. Robert F. Stephens

CLASS OF 1952

Jerry W. Adams
William B. Bowman
Wendell E. Burns
John A. Doherty Jr.
Johnnie E. Greene
Larry D. Hall

John S. Hudgens

Alan S. Kane

John K. Keebler

Lt. Col. William C. Kupfer
Francis W. LaFarge Jr.
James D. Maver Jr.
William F. Mills

Philip M. Morrow
Richard M. Nichols
James A. Parker

Harry E. Raisor
Thomas G. Reed Jr.
Rosario D. Riotto

LISTED HERE?

The indwiduals whose names appear on this page are
listed as “unlocated” in WerL 's alumni records. If you

have a current address for any of these alumni, please do

us—and them—a favor and send word to the Alumni
Office, Washington and Lee University, Lexington,

VA 24450.

 

Thank You!

Stanley Samuels
Edward W. Thomas
Frank P. White

CLASS OF 1952L
Robert C. Louthian Jr.
William J. McMahon Jr.

CLASS OF 1957
Ronald H. Barksdale
Joseph L. Brown
John S. Brush Jr.
Belden Butterfield

H. N. Canfield
Michael E. Chaney
Joe C. Chatman Jr.
William J. Dalzell
Charles L. Dana
James B. Davis Jr.
Charles J. Dobbs
Timothy D. Haven
James D. Hill

Anton E. Homsey Jr.
Lawrence J. Israel
Robert J. Jaber
Francis T. Kalmbach
James E. Law
Edward D. Line
Andrew J. McKelvey
Lynn V. Moore

Scott L. Moore Jr.
Gerald |. Moyer
Alfred P. Palmer
Gerald M. Portner
Brenton R. Rabe

E. B. Smith

Henry C. Walker Jr.

The Rev. Woollen H. Walshe Jr.
Rader W. Winget Jr.

CLASS OF 1957L
Howard E. Gellis

CLASS OF 1962
Robert L. Allen
William M. Bailey
Hugh J. Boulter
William A. Broadbent
Dieter Dedeke

Robin M. Dingwall
William D. Dyer

Dr. John W. Godsey
Thomas A. Grant Ill
McRae Hargon
James C. Hearon
Michael A. Henry
Alfred D. Hill Jr.
Curtis L. Hillyer Jr.
Richard R. Holloman
Henry P. Hooton

Dr. James T. King Jr.
Thomas M. Krook
George D. Moore
Paul L. Munyon
Robert Nash

Albert L. Pierce Jr.
Stephen W. Rutledge
William A. Smith
Ormond Somerville III
Erling D. Speer
Richard J. Stamm

CLASS OF 1962L

Charles F. Cummings
David H. Frackelton

CLASS OF 1967
Azel Ames

Preben G. Barthelsen
Roger S. Brown
Nathaniel C. Brydon Jr.
Bruce H. Builder

Paul M. Cheever
Philander P. Claxton III
James L. Cogar
Richard B. Crook
Howard W. Davis
Daniel A. Eadie
Clausen Ely Jr.
Randolph D. Fingland
Michael M. Fowler
James G. Gasque
John H. Gilbert

W. E. Gillespie
Dudley E. Henckels
Anders S. Henricsson
William S. Hummers III
Edward C. King Jr.
Dr. Jeffrey A. Kugel
John P. Laimbeer Jr.
Earle S. Lathrop Ill
Stephen C. Lester
Richard A. Masters
Bruce B. McKeithen
Robert C. McLaughlin
Phillip R. Miller
Jonathan H. Morse
Peyton P. Nattinger
Richard J. Noblett
Dennis R. O'Neil
Lewis B. Puller Jr.
William R. Robinson
Nauman S. Scott Ill
Richard J. Siciliano
George N. Stamas
Clarence B. Starr
Guy M. Sterling Jr.
Joshua Tobin Jr.
Peter E. Youngs

CLASS OF 1967L
Robert A. Bolen

Charles C. Bryan

Brian R. Kelly

William H. Mann Ill

Louis C. Roberts Ill

William P. Tedards Jr.

 

 

The Washington and Lee University
Alumni Magazine

Lexington, Virginia 24450

T

NON-PROFIT ORG.
U.S.POSTAGE
PAID

PERMIT NO, 6238
ONO Nie)

 

 

