 

The Washington and Lee University Alumni Magazine
SPRING 1994

 

New dean Barry Sullivan,
who arrives at WEL July 1,
comes to the law school from
Jenner © Block, one of the
AL ee ICS 4

firms, based in Chicago.

 

MATURE

10 / The Making of the President.

As the University prepares to choose a leader to usher W&L into

the 21st century, a look back at the leaders of the last 100 years.

12 / Out of the Fishbowl.

Far away from the buzz of New York’s literary cognoscenti, novelist
Mark Richard ’80 ponders The New York Times and life after Fishboy.

15 / Sullivan’s Travels.
For new law dean Barry Sullivan, a partner in a Chicago law firm,
the road to W&L began in the office of Judge John Minor Wisdom °25.

18 /Museum of Art.

Art Wood 50 finds a home away from home for the cartoon collection

of a lifetime—40,000 original drawings by the medium’s all-time greats.

22 / Divine Intervention.
At least 170 alumni have heeded the call of a church or synagogue.

One in 100 students on campus today are religion majors. Who are they?

DEPARTMENT

2 / From the Alumni President.

Mason New invites nominations for W&L’s next president.

3 / Letters.
A peek inside W.O. Shropshire’s mailbox finds bouquets, not bombs.

4 / The Colonnade.

The winter that just wouldn’t quit; the prognosis on ‘Tyler Duvall;
the plans for the Leyburn Library dedication; the verdict on FIJI; and more.

28 /W&L Law.

A March symposium examines race and the criminal justice system;

the law school climbs in the U.S. News rankings; and more.

30 / The Generals’ Report.

Women’s basketball hits the floor winning. Also: Angie Carrington’s dynasty.

34 / Alumni News.

Chapter of the Year citations for Los Angeles/Orange County and Baltimore;

a fall calendar of campus activities; and a look at Habitat for Humanity.

37 / Annual Fund.

Who’s hot and who’s not, as measured by dollars and participation.

38 / Class Notes.

G. David Low reflects on life in zero gravity; Clintonomics becomes a game;

and Tonya and Lorena—together for the first (and probably last) time.

On the Cover: University chaplain Thomas V. Litzenburg °57,
photographed in Robert E. Lee Memorial Church
by W. Patrick Hinely °73.
~LYSURN LIBRARY

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

A. Stevens Miles Jr. ‘51, Rector
John D. Wilson, President

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC,
(OFFICERS

Mason T. New ‘62

President (Richmond, Va.)

Robert K. Wittpenn ‘82

Vice President (Peapack, N.J.)

James D. Farrar Jr. ‘74

Secretary and Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

Robert W.H. Mish Ill ‘76

Associate Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

DIRECTORS

Michael D. Armstrong °77 (Atlanta, Ga.)

R.K. Barton III 63 (Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.)
T. Talbott Bond °51 (Baltimore, Md.)

E. Neal Cory II °77 (Louisville, Ky.)

Ben S. Gambill Jr. 67 (Nashville, Tenn.)

J. Michael Jenkins III ’64 (Montgomery, Ala.)
Robert S. Keefe '68 (New York, N.Y.)

H. Drake Leddy *71 (San Antonio, Texas)

Henry “Skip” Nottberg III '71 (Kansas City, Mo.)
William J. Russell Jr. °57 (Palm Beach, Fla.)
Alexa A. Salzman °89 (San Francisco, Calif.)
Jackson R. Sharman III 83 (Washington, D.C.)
Hatton C.V. Smith °73 (Birmingham, Ala.)

J. Frank Surface Jr. 60 (Jacksonville, Fla.)

J.E. “Jet” Taylor III °84 (Walnut Creek, Calif.)
James M. Turner Jr. °67, °71L (Roanoke, Va.)

H. William Walker Jr. 68, °71L. (Miami, Fla.)
Donald W. Weir Jr. °72 (Shreveport, La.)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
OFFICERS

Charles B. Tomm ‘68, ‘75L
President (Jacksonville, Fla.)
James C. Treadway Jr. ‘67L
Vice President (New York, N.Y.)

LAW COUNCIL

Charles M. Berger ’68L (Charlotte, N.C.)

Alfred J.T. Byrne °65, *68L (Washington, D.C.)
Robert M. Couch °78, ’82L (Birmingham, Ala.)
William R. Goodell *80L (Atlanta, Ga.)

Theodore D. Grosser ’77L (Cincinnati, Ohio)
Robin P. Hartmann °71L (Dallas, Texas)

Milton T. Herndon *56L (Charleston, W.Va.)
Carol L. Hoshall *83L (Alexandria, Va.)

James W. Jennings Jr. 65, ’72L (Roanoke, Va.)
John D. Klinedinst ’71, °78L (San Diego, Calif.)
Thomas M. Millhiser °81L (Richmond, Va.)

Dana C. Petersen '82L (Baltimore, Md.)

The Hon. W. Ray Price '78L (Jefferson City, Mo.)
W. Bryce Rea Jr. ’41L (Vienna, Va.)

David D. Redmond "66, *69L (Richmond, Va.)

B. Cary Tolley II] ’78L (Darien, Conn.)

Elizabeth Turley ’80L (Chicago, III.)

Patricia A. Van Allan ’80L (Houston, Texas)

John A. Wolf 69, ’72L (Baltimore, Md.)

Thomas K. Wotring ’75L (Bethesda, Md.)

APR ? > 1994

trom the Alumni President

Search for Tomorrow

As readers of these pages are aware, President John
Wilson has announced his retirement after more than
12 years of distinguished service to Washington and
Lee. A presidential advisory search committee has
been formed to help evaluate candidates for this most
important position. I have been asked to represent the
undergraduate alumni and Charlie ‘Tomm ’68, *75L,
president of the Law Alumni Association, will repre-
sent the law alumni. I would encourage you to read the
story beginning on page 10 of the A/umni Magazine that
has all the details of the committees and the search
process itself.

Where is Washington and Lee going? As rector A. Stevens Miles Jr. 51 noted in
his Founders’ Day speech, under President Wilson, coeducation became a reality and
a success more quickly than anyone imagined. Our academic program and faculty
remain of the highest quality. Our physical plant is in excellent shape and our frater-
nities have been restored, making it possible for them to nurture the kind of leader-
ship and fellowship that has characterized their place at W&L. The Lenfest Center,
the Reeves Center and the Watson Pavilion, and the Powell Wing at Lewis Hall —
these all serve to underscore the University’s commitment to a true liberal arts envi-
ronment and are evidence of John Wilson’s leadership.

Perhaps more important, however, is that Washington and Lee, in President
Wilson’s own words, remains “a setting in which truth and honesty and tolerance can
be spoken of and acted upon without embarrassment or apology. That is what
Washington and Lee has come to stand for over the decades. That is what one can
decipher in the symmetry and grace of its architecture and declaration of its honor
code.” ‘The honor system defines our institution and has a great and ongoing influ-
ence on the lives of all our graduates; our resolve to uphold it must not weaken.

And now the task begins to select a leader who will help define W&L’s future.
The Advisory Search Committee is in the process of receiving nominations, and we
are encouraging all of Washington and Lee’s constituencies to participate. We are
inviting any alumnus or alumna with a nomination to convey to the committee to

 

send a letter to:

Professor William J. Watt, Chairman

Presidential Advisory Search Committee

Washington and Lee University

Lexington, VA 24450

Your letter should include the candidate’s name, address, and any pertinent pro-
fessional information available to you.

Let me assure you that the entire membership of the Presidential Advisory Search
Committee takes this responsibility most seriously. It is important that alumni con-
tribute constructively to this process and we welcome and encourage your participa-
tion. Thank you for all your efforts on behalf of Washington and Lee.

Mason T. New ’62
President, W@L Alumni Association

 

 

 

Li

The Bomb and Us

«The Bomb and I” (Winter), W.O.
Shropshire’s first-person memoir of his post-
WL days on the Manhattan Project, gener-
ated more than a dozen letters to Shropshire
at his farm in Paris, Ky. Shropshire was
kind enough to declassify his correspondence
and pass it on to us, and now we are sharing

his mail with you.

Just finished reading “The Bomb and
I” and sure was tickled to see it in print.
Absolutely terrific, and the Class of ’42
is mighty proud of one of our great

members.

Edgar M. Boyd ’42

Baltimore

I was delighted to catch up with you
after 50-plus years through the very nice
article in the W@L Magazine. Do you
recall where you were when you first
heard about the attack on Pearl Harbor?
You were staying in our apartment in
Arlington, Va., complete with terrific
hangovers. You and Betty went out to
replenish our supply of beer—badly
needed for survival.

As a member of the FBI in New York
City during the war, I was involved in
the surveillance of a Russian agent
Known to be interested in obtaining
information about the Manhattan
Project. I could tell you some interesting
things about this agent.

Herbert Kelly Garges Jr. ’40
Atlanta

It has been a long time since I first
met you and Johnny Davis in the fall of
1938, on the C&O bound for Clifton
Forge, Va. | guess that was the first time
I had ever experienced a berth for an
Overnight train trip. You and Johnny
Were enjoying a crap game in the club
Car. Remember how hard it was to roll
Out of the berth at about 4 a.m.?

I enjoyed tremendously the article
about your fantastic World War II expe-
riences. When you took off from ‘Tinian
in August 1945, I was a major in the
10th Marines on Saipan preparing to
invade Kyushu. You saved my life! A
few weeks later we landed at Nagasaki
and I witnessed the devastation wrought
by “Fat Man.”

Thomas S§. Brizendine °41
Greenville, Ky.

My mother-in-law, Carolyn Ardery,
mailed me a copy of your interesting
and well-written article which appeared
in the W@L Alumni Magazine. | found
the selection process you underwent
and the insidious way you were drawn
into the Manhattan Project intriguing.

I would enjoy very much hearing
from you about your experiences at Los
Alamos. Did you encounter my father,
Ernest O. Lawrence? If so, what sort of
a guy was he? Any interesting stories
about him or Oppenheimer? (I was
named after Oppenheimer—before he
and Dad had their falling-out.)

I assume from your article that your
job was to monitor stray radiation with
your ionization chamber. How is it that
you and your chamber came to the
attention of the military when you and it
were to be found in the relative obscuri-
ty of a small liberal arts university? Had
you published a paper on the subject?

Again, I enjoyed the fascinating arti-
cle and look forward to hearing from you
if you can find time to drop me a line.

Robert Lawrence
Stockton, Calif.

When my A/umni Magazine came in
the mail, I just happened to open it to
page 16 and was amazed to see a scene |
knew well: the Headquarters 509th
Bomb Group. I, too, have ‘Tinian memo-
ries and have often remarked it all hap-
pened under our nose and we didn’t
know about it until the rest of the world.

I went to Tinian with the 240th
Ordnance Ammo Co. in November
1944, and we operated the Bomb Dump
and saw the 2,000-pound bombs come

and go. I was executive officer and oper-
ations officer for the Bomb Dump. I had
my own Jeep and often drove down to
North Field—photographed many B-

- 29s. Yes I did take the Eno/a Gay and

Great Artiste after their famous bombing.

We did get to know a few B-29 pilots
and I had the privilege of a practice
bomb run on Iwo Jima—this was before
the arrival of the 509th and invasion of
Iwo—and one morning a pilot friend
was checking out a new pilot and I went
on the practice run of landings and take-
offs.

We had our independent unit and
our own small officers’ mess and often
entertained friends on Tinian. Sorry I
wasn’t aware of your presence then.

Dick Sandstrom °41
New Lebanon, N.Y.

Congratulations! Evie and I are
mighty proud of you. We both agreed
that we didn’t know any Phi Delt who
could keep silent for a year, much less
50!

G. Richard Day °41
Louisville, Ky.

Calyx, Anyone?

Calyx co-editor Sarah Butler informs
us that alumni interested in obtaining
The Calyx from the years °54, ’60, °61,
71, ’72, ’79, ’80, ’81, ’82, ’84, ’85, ’86,
’88, °90, °91, and ’92 can purchase copies
for $15 each (payable to Ca/yx), which
includes shipping. For more info, write
The Calyx, Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, University Center, Lexington, VA
24450 or call (703) 462-4046.

The Alumni Magazine of Washington
and Lee welcomes /etters from its readers.
Address correspondence to: University
Editor, Washington and Lee University,
Publications Office, Lexington, VA 24450.
Letters may also be faxed to (703) 463-
8024. All letters should include the author’s
name, address, and daytime phone number.
Letters selected for publication may be edited
for length, content, and style.

The Colonnade

 

The Winter of Our Discontent
The Last Weather Story We’Il Write This Year. Promise.

January 19—the annual observance of Founders’ Day at Washington and Lee—
dawned bright and extremely cold in Lexington this year. President Wilson, out for
his 7 a.m. walk with his golden lab, Bo, encountered conditions that were both sub-
freezing (10 degrees below zero) and sub-human. The ice that had fallen the previous
day, already resistant to
the chipping and scrap-
ping of the intrepid
Buildings and Grounds
crews, was now harder
than Kryptonite—impossi-
ble to clear and impassable
to walk on. Parking lots
were jammed with snow
and ice, and emergency
road crews had been
unable to clear many of
the roads in Rockbridge
County. After consulting
with University officers,
President Wilson closed

- the campus for two days—
the first time in more than
30 years that the Univer-
sity had been closed be-

cause of severe weather.
It was that kind of win-
— hen. ter. The combination of
snow, ice, freezing rain,
and near sub-zero temperatures that gripped Lexington (like much of the East Coast)
from mid-December to mid-March had many University types scratching their heads,
wondering if Washington and Lee had somehow been transported into Ivy League
territory. When it was all over, when the forsythia began to bloom and the crocuses
poked their tiny heads through the soggy brown earth, a collective sigh could be

heard rising from the Colonnade. It was a miserable, memorable winter.

The first snow came on Dec. 20, a blanket several inches thick that lingered
through exams and the holiday season, and Lexington enjoyed its first white
Christmas in some time. Intermittent snows, coupled with freezing temperatures,
kept the ground white and the nearby ski resorts busy through the first of the year.
After that, things began to get interesting.

The temperature began dropping at a rate that had not been seen in the
Rockbridge area in many years. Record lows (-12 degrees near Raphine) and overcast
skies prevented the sun from melting the ice, and the consistent snowfall only added
to the problem. The situation reached emergency state on Jan. 19.

President Wilson’s actions were consistent with what was happening all over west
ern Virginia. Virtually everything ground to a halt as emergency crews and the
Virginia Power Co. struggled with the drastic conditions and the unprecedented
demand for electricity. Around 10 a.m., Virginia Power began a series of rolling black-
outs, whereby power was cut to a specific area for 15 minutes while that electricity
was diverted elsewhere. The blackouts forced the computer center to shut down,
eliminating the computer network and all but the most rudimentary word processing:

The situation worsened when Buildings and Grounds superintendent Jim Arthuf

 

Ss a> ane

  

 

 

discovered that three of W&L’s four
emergency generators would not start,
potentially endangering the telephone
and communications systems on cam-
pus. In an effort to reduce the demand
for power, all University personnel who
had braved the elements to come in
were sent home. The dining hall moved
up dinner one hour to take advantage of
the daylight and served meals on paper
plates with plastic utensils to avoid
using dishwashers. And yes, even the
James Graham Leyburn Library, which
never closes except during breaks, was
forced to go dark.

The Founders’ Day celebration
planned for that day was postponed
until Jan. 31. The day’s featured speak-
er, rector A. Stevens Miles Jr. °51, had
been scheduled to speak to an R.E. Lee
Birthday celebration in Richmond the
night before (he was stranded in
Florida), and that event, along with cel-
ebrations in Charleston, S.C., Charles-
ton, W.Va., Lexington, and Philadel-
phia, had to be postponed.

Despite the life-threatening condi-
tions, the University came through the
harshest weather unscathed. “The
biggest problem we had was damage to
the gutters and downspouts,” says
Arthur. “We also suffered some damage
to sidewalks and steps throughout the
campus, and the ice was very hard to
remove from the brick sidewalks. We
used more salt and gravel this year than
we ever have in my 29 years.”

As if the harsh weather of January
wasn’t enough to make the students
long for the Florida sun, Mother Nature
dumped another eight inches of snow
and freezing rain on Thursday, Feb.
10—the day before Washington Break.
The second round—minus the sub-
freezing temperatures—created trans-
Portation delays and forced many stu-
dents to postpone plans for the beach
(or the slopes) until the highways and
airports reopened.

The final indignation occurred on
Wednesday, March 2, when eight more
inches of snow arrived two days before
Fancy Dress. Another major power out-
“8¢ around 10 a.m. on Thursday, caused

Y collapsing trees and limbs near
Glasgow, had students wondering if that

evening’s concert with Jerry Jeff Walker
and the Marshall ‘Tucker Band would be
canceled, or at least unplugged. But
Virginia Power got the juice going again,
and the concert rocked on as planned.
And while there might have been a
few soggy hemlines (and an occasionally
disgruntled camel), the 87th annual

\

Ee “~
A.

‘a,
a
=

Fancy Dress—A Magical Carpet Ride—
went off without a hitch. There was
only one downer, as a headline in the
March 9 Trident noted: “Fancy Dress
loses money, snow blamed.”

After toughing out this winter at
Washington and Lee, nobody argued
that point.

 

Bishop Elected as Trustee

Edward L. Bishop III 68 was sworn
in as a member of W&L’s Board of
Trustees at the board’s February meet-
ing. He was elected last fall in alumni
balloting. Bishop is president and CEO
of Berkeley In-
vestment Tech-
nologies in New
York, which pro-
vides computer-
based trading and
arbitrage systems

 

internationally.

At Washington
and Lee, Bishop
was president and
treasurer of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity;
served as a dormitory counselor; played
varsity football and baseball; and was a
member of the Athletic Association and
the Interfraternity Council.

After graduating, Bishop served six
years active duty as a Navy fighter pilot
in Vietnam. He flew in 163 combat mis-

Ed Bishop 68

sions and received two Distinguished
Flying Crosses. He received his MBA in
1975 from the University of Pennsyl-
vania’s Wharton School of Business.
From 1986 to 1989, he was the director
of arbitrage trading at Drexel Burnham
Lambert. He is president and founder of
Arbitrage Software Inc., and managing
director of Antietam Investment Group.

A Distinguished Alumnus honoree in
1991, Bishop served on the Alumni
Fraternity Council from 1986 to 1993,
including two years as president, and
was a leading sponsor and inspiration for
W&L’s Fraternity Renaissance program.
He is vice chairman of the parents’ com-
mittee for the University’s capital cam-
paign and is a member of the New York
area Campaign committee.

Bishop lives in Flourtown, Pa., with
his wife, Joyce. Their daughter, Kim-
berly, is a 1992 W&L graduate.

James G. Leyburn Library
Dedication Set for May 28

‘The James Graham Leyburn Library
will be dedicated May 28. A symposium,
“A Celebration and Remembrance of
James G. Leyburn,” will begin at 11

Harlan McMurray ’55 (left) reviews papers
belonging to his uncle, James Graham
Leyburn, with trustee Bill Gottwald ’70.
The papers will go in the Special Collections

room of the Leyburn Library.

a.m. The symposium will be chaired by
Robert E.R. Huntley °50, °57L, former
president of Washington and Lee, and
include remarks by Bill Gottwald ’70, a
member of the Board of ‘Trustees; John
McDaniel ’64, professor of sociology at
W&L; Betty Munger, former W&L
bookstore manager and longtime friend
of Leyburn’s; and Philip Turner °58, a
professor at Yale University. The dedi-
cation ceremony, including the unveil-
ing of a portrait of the late dean of the
University and professor emeritus of
sociology and a plaque lauding his con-
tributions to W&L, will commence at 1
p.m., to be followed by a luncheon on
Stemmons Plaza. For more information,
contact the Alumni Office at 463-8464.

Trustees Approve 250th
Birthday Commission

Although 1999 is still five years away,
it's not too early to begin planning a
party—particularly when the cause for
celebration is Washington and Lee’s
250th birthday.

At its February meeting, the execu-
tive committee of the Board of ‘Trustees
approved the creation of the 250th
Birthday Commission to plan and carry
out the year-long celebration. Repre-
sentatives from the Board of ‘Trustees,
Alumni Board, Law Alumni Association,
Washington Society, faculty, students,
and administration, and the Lexington
community will be asked to serve on the
commission. The first meeting will be
scheduled for this spring.

 

Historic l exington Foundation officers

Pamela Simpson and Elizabeth Harralson
honor President Wilson and Frank Parsons
‘54, coordinator of capital and facilities

planning, for Fraternity Renaissance.

“Only five colleges and universities
in the United States will have had the
privilege of celebrating such a milestone
before we do so in 1999,” says Farris P,
Hotchkiss 58, vice president of univer-
sity relations, “and we plan a celebration
of virtually every aspect of the Univer-
sity and its history.”

Fraternity Renaissance
Honored by HLF

Washington and Lee’s recently com-
pleted Fraternity Renaissance program
was honored by Historic Lexington
Foundation with its Founders Award in
February. “The program preserved the
character of the historic district and
added to the beauty of the city while
providing safe, clean housing serving
the needs of present and future genera-
tions of students,” the citation said. The
$13 million renovation of 16 fraternity
houses concluded last fall with the com-
pletion of the new Sigma Phi Epsilon
and Sigma Chi houses.

Foreign Student: April in
Paris, Later in States

U.S. release of Foreign Student has
been pushed back to August or Septem-
ber, according to a spokesman for dis-
tributor Gramercy Films. The produc-
tion, you will remember, spent two days
filming in Lexington last May. The fall
release, incidentally, comes 40 years
after author Philippe Labro’s arrival as 4
foreign student at Washington and Lee.

Of course, if you’ve got frequent flyer
miles to burn and a fistful of francs, you
might consider crossing the pond for the
film’s world premiere engagement in
April in |.abro’s homeland of France,
where L’Etudiant Etranger was a No. 1
bestseller in 1986. See you in Paris!
Brouwer, McThenia Named
Outstanding Faculty

Associate professor of music Margaret
L. Brouwer and professor of law Andrew
W. McThenia Jr. 58, ’°63L were among
11 recipients statewide of Outstanding
Faculty Awards from the State Council
of Higher Education at a ceremony in
Richmond March 8. The program recog-
nizes the excellent teaching, research,
and public service being performed in
Virginia colleges and universities.

Brouwer, who joined the W&L facul-
ty in 1988, teaches music composition,
theory, 20th-century music, and violin.
An award-winning composer, she is also
the founder and director of Sonoklect,
an annua! festival of new music at
W&L. Brouwer holds degrees from
Indiana University, Michigan State, and
the Oberlin Conservatory of Music.

In addition to his W&L degrees,
McThenia has a master’s from Colum-
bia University. After practicing law in
Washington, D.C., for four years, he
returned to W&L in 1967 and has been
professor of law since 1973. McThenia
teaches in the areas of legislation and

“Campaign Update

Pit. Campaign for Washington and Lee
ssed the $100 million milestone. in
rf —". Major needs remain es,

    
  

 

 

E Goal: Thru March 31:
— $127.000,000 ——-$101,000,000

The Shadow

 

Knows: A real-life cowboy known only as Shadow (left) swaps horse stories with

emeritus trustee lke Smith ’57, ’60L, and Linwood Holton °44 prior to the Houston Livestock

Show and Rodeo on Feb. 26, one of the more colorful highlights of the trustees’ winter meeting.

directs the Mental Disabilities Clinic.
He has written articles on civil disobedi-
ence and legal narratives including a
recent collection of essays on William
Stringfellow, a white attorney and writer
who practiced law in East Harlem.

FIJI Suspended for '94-’95

‘The Phi Gamma Delta fraternity has
been suspended through the 1994-95
academic year for hazing.

The incidents, which occurred in
November and December, were brought
to the attention of the administration by
dean of freshmen Dennis Manning.
Following a review of the case, the
Interfraternity Council judicial board
found the fraternity guilty of hazing and
suspended the FIJI pledge program.

The case was then reviewed by the
Student Affairs Committee, the tripar-
tite committee responsible for reviewing
violations of University policy that could
involve the possible suspension of a fra-
ternity. Following a presentation by
members of the fraternity, SAC mem-
bers voted unanimously that Phi
Gamma Delta had violated the Univer-
sity hazing policy. ‘The SAC then voted
11-0-1 to suspend the fraternity immedi-
ately and to continue the suspension
through the 1994-95 academic year.

In accordance with established proce-
dures, the fraternity appealed the SAC’s
decision to President John Wilson.
Appeals were received from the Phi
Gamma Delta House Corporation and
from the parent of a Phi Gamma Delta
pledge. After reviewing the details of
the case and conducting his own investi-
gation, Wilson upheld the SAC decision
to suspend the fraternity. “I am per-
suaded that the imposition of a suspen-
sion penalty was a just response to the
Phi Gamma Delta infractions,” he wrote
in response to the appeals.

After consideration of the president’s
report, the SAC voted to confirm that:
Phi Gamma Delta is suspended through
the 1994-95 academic year and will not
be permitted to participate in the Fall
1994 IFC rush; the house corporation
will be invited to submit an action plan
for the future of Phi Gamma Delta to
SAC by May 1; contingent upon a con-
structive and workable house corpora-
tion action plan, the SAC will support
the members of this year’s pledge class
living in the fraternity house beginning
in the fall term of 1994; and that the
SAC will review and assess the progress
of Phi Gamma Delta next January.

At its April meeting, the University
faculty passed a motion supporting the
SAC decision.

 

‘We Have Been Seduced’

WEL senior Matt Jackson, president of
Omicron Delta Kappa at Washington and
Lee, spoke to Phi Beta Kappa initiates of
“The Tempestuous Seduction” at the honor
fraternity’s banquet March 10. The text of

Als Speech LOMOWS.

We have been seduced. We have
attended college because it was expect-
ed of us. We came here because it was
the thing to do: go to a good college, get
a degree, get a good job. But, some-
where along the way, something radical
and irrevocable occurred. Somewhere
along the way—in that search for an
excellent record and for honors such as
Phi Beta Kappa—a sweet-sounding call-
ing, either conscious or unconscious,
came to us, saying: “The search for
knowledge is more than the means for
something else; it is the end. It is not
just a stepping stone to vocation or acco-
lades. honorable,
panoramic search for knowledge has an

The vigorous,

intrinsic worth, all by itself.”

We have taken this revelation, over
time, and made it an essential part of
our lives. By adopting this voice as our
own, we have been captivated by one of
the most ugly, nagging, troubling crea-
tures imaginable: the constant call of
learning. This seduction led to late

nights, sleep deprivation, anxiety
attacks, confusion, self-doubt. We can
blame others for this tempestuous
seduction: professors, scrutinizing par-
ents and relatives, honorary societies
like Phi Beta Kappa, distinctions, such
as Honor Roll and Dean’s Lists, and
academically competitive friends and
associates.

But I suppose we have to blame our-
selves too. We have to blame ourselves
for the dreaded loneliness of intense
scholarship. For many of us, our true
collegiate biographies can be found in
those revelations in lonesome places,
away from society, at our desks, in seclu-
sion, in carrels and empty classrooms,
and when facing computer screens.
There are many nights of loneliness, of
contemplation, in which some of us
must have felt that we were the only liv-
ing person in the universe pondering a
certain theory, formula, essay, or poem
at that moment. While winds from the
outside howled against the window
panes, and tempting thoughts inside our
heads reminded us of other more frivo-
lous activities, somehow our convictions
to learn remained steadfast, our fidelity
remained constant.

We also have to blame ourselves for
the pain of neglecting friends at times.
Our reasons for studying seemed wholly
inadequate at times. No, we have told
friends, I cannot go out with you
tonight, to drink, to dance, to laugh, to
sing—these things will have to wait. I
already made plans with others . . . dead
people—dead writers, dead theorists,
dead political figures, dead artists. Of
course, this answer, as lame as it has
been, may still be better than the other
answer. No, I cannot go out with you
and the rest tonight. I have other plans,
this time not with dead people, but with
pure abstractions which have never
depicted reality—Plato’s Republic and
economic graphs depicting a perfectly
competitive and efficient national econ-
omy.

On the nights after the decision
between fun and work was made, we
would sit at our desks working diligent-
ly. And, at times we would put down our
pens, push aside our notes, lean back on
our chairs, look into the ceiling, and ask

ourselves or another Energy: Why am J
doing this? Why do I work so hard for g
number—a grade-point number? Why
do I cause myself anxiety, sleep loss,
confusion and doubt? Why do I analyze
everything I see now, from MT'V videos
to underwear commercials to professors’
ties?

The answer to these questions js
that: this monstrous, nagging enchan-
tress, or enchanter—depending on one’s
preference—we, strangely, find lovable,
We have been seduced; we admit it; we
accept it. Although this stormy affair
with knowledge constantly tests us, we
know it will continue, and we want it to
continue. If we live one day without
thinking critically and thoroughly, with-
out asking questions, without attempt-
ing to see many sides of an issue, with-
out seeking fair judgment, we would
feel incomplete, inhuman, unfaithful.

Today, the Washington and Lee
community’s public and exclusive hon-
oring of academic achievement and
intellectual inquiry helps to vindicate
this four-year, and for some of us, three-
year tempestuous relationship. Today
also might allow us to muster the
courage to answer those friends we
resisted at times and to answer our own
reservations, by saying:

We were not as aloof, cold, preten-
tious and distant

as much as we were committed to
another calling—

that of the yearning for wisdom and
the humbling,

challenging search for perception,
knowledge, awareness,

insight. And this search, we earnestly
hope, does not lead

to alienation and arrogance. It leads
to deliberate,

rational living and lives, not only that
will delight us in

striving to fulfill the motto, “the love
of wisdom”

but also lives that, through their pru-
dent, informed

courses, might also make communi-
ties and society a bit

more safe, a bit more rational, a bit
more moral, a bit

more peaceful, a bit more humanistic.

 

j Uiddl DUT ( olle Ve pri 1a N1 SINCE L992. addri SSES the Pht Be la

Ka ‘0. McCardell came to Middlebury in 1976 a

Phi Beta Kappa Inducts 49

Forty-one W&L undergraduates and
eight 1993 graduates have been elected
into membership in the University’s
Gamma of Virginia chapter of Phi Beta
Kappa. The new members were initiat-
ed into the national fraternity on March
10 during the chapter’s annual Phi Beta
Kappa convocation in Lee Chapel.

Phi Beta Kappa was installed at
Washington and Lee in 1911 and annu-
ally elects a limited number of students
of outstanding character and superior
academic records. The students elected
to membership this year are:

Seniors: Heather Catherine Aussiker
of Accokeek, Md.; Angie Lauren
Carrington of Charlottesville, Va.;
Jennifer Coleman of Auburn, N.Y.;
Sharron Lolita Crabbe of Birmingham,
Ala.; Ryan Lee Dennard of League
City, Texas; Miriam Elise Genevieve
Hagensen of Vancouver, Wash.; Robert
Thomas Higginbotham of Memphis,
Tenn.; Matthew Edward Jackson of
Hanover, Pa.; Richard Houston Jenkins
of Kansas City, Mo.; Shannon Marie
Jones of East Hampton, N.Y.; Christian
Boyd Keller of Carlisle, Pa.; James
Fitzmorris Kull of Dallas; Erin Michelle
Nelson of Massillon, Ohio; Justin
Randal Peterson of Novato, Pa.; Jennifer
Jane Ray of Atlanta; Avery Katharine
Rembowski of Hilton Head Island, S.C.;

°mmy Carrell Ritter of Mountain

1 professor of history.

Brook, Ala.; Jennifer Anne Roscoe of
Glenwood, Md.; Herman Safin of
Moscow; John William Schindler of
Phoenixville, Pa.; Jennifer Claire Shaker
of Macon, Ga.; Valerie Michele Shannon
of Houston; Elizabeth Whitton Storey of
Columbia, Md.; John Spencer Surface of
Jacksonville, Fla.; Lee Anthony Wright
of Fort ‘Totten, N.Y.; Sarah Merle Wyatt
of Doraville, Ga.; Sheri Renee Wynn of
Lynchburg, Va.; Jon Charles Yeargan of
Beckley, W.Va.; and Rachel Ann
Zloczover of Boynton Beach, Fla.

Juniors: Kelly Leigh Brotzman of
Hamilton, Mich.; Joshua Andrew Cook
of Mars, Pa.; Matthew Ehret of
Savannah, Ga.; Robert Charles Eison of
Bowling Green, Ky.; Assia Plamenova
Georgieva of Sofia, Bulgaria; Leslie
Reneau Hallett of Lodi, N.Y.; James
Michael Johnston of Littleton, Co.;
William Pinson Shepherd of Atlanta;
Eric Duncan Shirley of Olney, Md.;
Carter Edwin Tharpe of Macon, Ga.;
James Morton Turner of Roanoke; and
Jennifer Ann Yanulavich of Roswell, Ga.

1993 graduates: Christine Jacquelene
Gorman of Chapel Hill, N.C.; Anne
Booker Redford of Richmond; Leslie
Irene Cummings of Bettendorf, lowa.;
Heather Lynn Olsen of Peekskill, N.Y.;
Jon Heath Dixon of Plano, ‘Texas; Mark
Thomas Goglia of Clarksville, Md.;
Heather Noelle Cook of Fair Lawn,
N.J.; and James Mazyck Wilson of
Charleston, S.C.

VOLUME 69, NUMBER |
SPRING 1994

Brian D. Shaw, Executive Editor

Dick Anderson, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

W. Patrick Hinely ‘73, Photographer
Evan Atkins, Contributing Editor
William Cocke 82, Contributing Editor
Jerilyn Farren ‘93, Class Notes Editor
Brian Logue, Sports Editor

Karlic & Linthicum, Design

COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY BOARD

John Cleghorn °84

David M. Clinger °55
William H. Fishback Jr. °56
Farris P. Hotchkiss °58
Robert S. Keefe ’68
‘Thomas V. Litzenburg °57
David Lotts ’74

Andrew H. McCutcheon °48
Robert Mottley 64
Elizabeth Obenshain
Howard Packett °58

Frank A. Parsons °54

Sarah K. Wiant ’78L
Robert Wittpenn °82

Published quarterly by Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington
and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA
24450. Third-class postage paid at
Lynchburg, VA 24502. Signed articles
reflect the views of their authors and not
necessarily those of the editorial board or
the University.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
DIRECTORY

Switchboard (703) 463-8400
Publications Office (703) 463-8956
Alumni Office (703) 463-8464
Development Office (703) 463-8410
News Office (703) 463-8460

Sports Info. Office (703) 463-8676
W&L Sports Hotline (703) 463-8998

William L. Wilson,
former Congressman from
West Virginia and postmaster
general under President Grover
Cleveland, succe eded Custis Lee
as president of Washington and
Lee in 1897. His Baptist
affiliation, he reasoned,
weighed in his favor with the
largely Presbyterian Board of

Trustees. Wilson died

in office in 1900.

As Washington and
Lee prepares to choose
a leader to usher the
University into

the 21st century,

a look back at the
leaders who shaped
the past 100 years

 

Henry Louis Smith
(like Denny, the son of a

Presbyterian minister)

George H. Denny
was a 30-year-old professor of
Latin at WEL when he became
acting president in 1901. A was president of Davidson
popular leader with students, College when he was elected in
who shared his love for football,
he resigned in 1911 to take the

presidency of the University of

1912. His inaugural address
was titled “The American
College of Tomorrow.” He

served for 17 years, retiring

in 1929 as the United States

Alabama, prompting the
Richmond ‘Times-Dispatch
to write, “To George H. Denny was approaching the Great

Depression.

ae Stay where you are.”

 

‘Lhe Making¢

The nomination process to select a successor to Washington
and Lee president John Wilson has formally begun with the
selection of a pair of committees to be chaired by William J.
Watt, professor of chemistry and former dean of the college,
and A. Stevens Miles Jr. 51, rector of the Board of Trustees.
Miles outlined the process in his Founders’ Day speech on Jan.
31. “Helping to select the 22nd president of this University—
and the ninth since General Lee—is the most important task |
will have as rector,” Miles said.

A presidential advisory search committee, including faculty,
staff, and alumni representatives, will evaluate all candidates,

10

reduce the list to approximately 10 names, and submit that list
to the trustee committee. The trustee committee will subse-
quently conduct interviews with the candidates before making
a recommendation to the full board. The nomination and
screening process are expected to be completed by November,
with finalists to be interviewed in December and January. A
recommendation to the full board will be made by the
February 1995 trustees meeting, with the new president 00
take office on July 1 of next year.

Watt encores as chair of the presidential advisory search
committee, having served that task in 1982. The current mem-

 

Fran n Gaines Fred Carrington Cole
came | n and Lee joined Washington and Lee in
from 1 y of Wake 1959 from Tulane University,
- Fon n 1930.8 where he was successively an

mastel / educator of associate professor and
nationa: saw WEL professor of history, dean of the
thr ression, college of arts and sciences,
po @ er matters, and academic vice president.
and 1 159 after a He left WEL in 1967 to become
ten ears, the president of the Council of
Jongest in ity history. Library Resources Inc., and
Ga 1 1964. died in 1986.

 

 

 

 

Robert E.R. Huntley
had been dean of the WEL
school of law for a single year
when he was elected University
president in 1968. He earned
his undergraduate and law
degrees from W&L in 1950 and
1957, respectively, and ts the
only alumnus to have been
named president in this century.
Huntley resigned in 1982 and
lives in Richmond.

 

 

John D. Wilson

was executive vice president and

provost of Virginia Tech when
he became the 21st president of
Washington and Lee in 1983.
He had previously been
president of Wells College in
Aurora, N.Y., from 1968 to
1975. He will retire from the
University (at the conclusion of
its $127 million capital
campaign) on June 30, 1995.

 

rhe President

bers of the president’s advisory committee—professor of
fomance languages Larry Boetsch 69, professor of psychology
Nancy Margand, professor of geology Edgar Spencer °53, pro-
fessor of politics Robert Strong, associate professor of romance
languages Cecile West-Settle, and professor of physics ‘Tom
Williams—wil] serve on the committee alongside commerce,
©conomics, and politics dean Larry Peppers, newly elected law
dean Barry Sullivan, professor of law Uncas McThenia ’58,
®63L, Alumni Association president Mason New ’62, Law
Alumni Association president Charlie Tomm ’68, °75L, and
Executive Committee president Robert Tompkins "90, ’94L.

OE

The committee chaired by Miles includes current trustees
Dubose Ausley 59, Virginia Holton, William Lemon °55, ’59L,
Tom Wolfe ’51, and emeritus trustee Royce Hough ’59.

“Lee’s principles of a simple, straightforward curriculum,
taught by a dedicated faculty, in an environment that holds
honorable behavior and respect for others in the highest regard,
continue to guide our institution,” Miles said. “It is important
that from time to time we rededicate ourselves to these princi-
ples. As we go through the process of selecting our next presi-
dent, this is clearly one of those times.” (For more about the
nomination process, see Mason New’s column on page 2.) ®

11

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fishbowl

Far away from
the buzz of New
York’s literary
cognoscentl,
novelist Mark
Richard “80
ponders life
after Fishboy

By William Cocke 82

In 1986, when Mark Richard turned
30, he moved to New York to become a
writer. He carried with him little bag-
gage other than a recipe borrowed from
Mark ‘Twain: Success is equal parts igno-
rance and confidence.

“I’ve always been recklessly opti-
mistic,” Richard says now of those
plans. “I thought all you had to do was
go to New York, write a book, have it
published, receive critical praise, and be
a successful writer.” Eight years later,
with his first novel published, the 1980
Washington and Lee graduate has
accomplished what he set out to do, but
“as with everything in life,” he says, it
was a completely different process from
what he had imagined.

‘That process was recently chronicled
in a two-part article by Michael Norman
for The New York Times Book Review
titled “A Book in Search of a Buzz: The
Marketing of a First Novel.” Richard
endured more than 50 interviews for the
9,000-word article, a fascinating—and
often disquieting—case study of the
commercial publishing world and the
obstacles an author must overcome to
prevent his work from winding up in the
remainder bin.

‘Thanks in part to some good reviews,
aggressive marketing by Doubleday, and
a continent-wide book tour by Richard,
this fate is unlikely to befall his debut
novel, Fishboy. ‘The story may not be to
everyone’s taste, but those who dive into
it will find a slightly skewed sea-tale, a
gumbo of grotesques seasoned with
flashes of dark humor. And while it may
not have scaled the best-seller charts like
a work by John Grisham or a Robert
James Waller—not that it was ever
expected to—Fishboy, published last
May, has sold some 12,000 copies and 1s
now in its third printing (the paperback
is due this June).

While the “Buzz” surrounding the
Times piece has given the novel a second
promotional wind, Richard admits to
some jitters before the articles appeared.
Looking back, he says, “if the book had
been a complete flop, it would have
been kind of traumatic to have had your
first novel, a personal failure, being doc-
umented in the pages of 7he New York
Times.”

Far from the glow of the golden liter-
ary circles of New York City, the
Louisiana-born author is writer-in-resi-
dence for the spring semester at the
University of the South in Sewanee,
Tenn. “This is the best place to be
when something like this happens,”
says Richard of the small liberal arts uni-
versity located on the Cumberland
Plateau. “If I was in New York, people
would be calling me up wanting to go
out for drinks and dinner and talk about
it—and I don’t want to talk about it. I’ve
spent the last year talking about the
book and myself.”

In fact, Richard’s immediate plans
don’t include returning to New York
except for visits and business. Perhaps
it’s a desire not to be pigeonholed—of
being labeled, “for better or for worse, a
white, Southern, straight, male”—but
whatever the reason, Richard finds the
city to be a Faustian bargain. “It opened
up my career, it changed my life, it
accelerated my career, but it also ages
you in direct proportion,” he says. “New
York offers a support group. You’ve got
other people who are trying to do what
you're doing, all the contacts are there.
Everything is in place; you just have to
deliver product. And in this day and age,
as I found out, beyond product, you
have to deliver your own personality as a
marketing tool.”

At Washington and Lee, Richard was
an indifferent student at best—a jour-

13

Photo: Stephen Alvarez

nalism major whose advisor flunked him
twice, and a half-hearted fraternity man
who discovered all sorts of ways to goof
off living out in the country. “I had a
couple of professors who saved me, who
kept me sane,” he says.

The late Jim Boatwright, editor of
Shenandoah and a professor of creative
writing, was one. With Boatwright’s
encouragement, Richard began to
express himself in short stories, even
though he didn’t want to be a writer at
the time. He had entertained notions of
being a television newscaster, or a radio
announcer (he was, at age 13, the young-
est DJ in the country), or even a com-
mercial fisherman (he took two years off
from W&L to work on fishing boats
along the Atlantic coast), “but never
really a creative writer,” he says.
“There’s no future in that.”

“If it had not been for Jim
Boatwright, | wouldn’t have graduated,”
Richard admits. ‘That’s not just publicity
hype: Just before graduation, Richard
discovered that he was one credit shy of
the number required to graduate, and
with a dean breathing down his neck, he
turned to Boatwright. “I’m going to give
you a one-credit, independent study
course,” the professor told him, “for
which you'll owe me one short story.”

Boatwright was very supportive of
the young writer, going so far as to sub-
mit one of his stories to a national fiction
competition for college students spon-
sored by The Atlantic Monthly. He did so
unbeknownst to Richard, but “he was
good at things like that.” In 1989, when
his first book, a collection of short sto-
ries titled Zhe Ice at the Bottom of the
World (Knopf) was published, Richard
dedicated it to Boatwright. The collec-
tion won the prestigious Ernest Hem-
ingway Award from the international
writers association known as PEN.

14

Despite his potential—Richard won
the English department’s George A.
Mahan Award for sophomore prose in
1976—one professor, who shall remain
nameless, told him that he’d never be a
writer. “But you know,” he adds, “it’s
things like that that motivate you as
much as people who submit your stories
to The Atlantic. You never know when
that’s really the thing that’s the burr
under your saddle.”

Now that he’s a teacher himself,
Richard has a better understanding of
the profession and takes a more compas-
sionate view towards his students. “All
you can really hope for is enthusiasm,”
he says. “If you’ve got that, you’ve been
given a gift.” As for his students’ writ-
ing, he does not place too much empha-
sis on the stories they have to tell: “I’m
just trying to get them to give them-
selves license to be free with their work,
to be able to smear themselves on the
page and not just write in a way in
which they think is expected of them,
not just to make the obvious choices on
the page, but to reach beyond that pub-
lic facade, the Big Me, to go beyond that
to the little me where our true thoughts
are and let that speak.”

Richard has never been one to do
what was expected of him. He spent last
fall in Los Angeles working on three
screen projects: an original screenplay, a
feature treatment of a short story, and an
adaptation of Fishboy. He recently fol-
lowed Tom Waits around over the
course of a year, from New York to
Berlin, Hamburg, and Los Angeles,
eventually selling a profile to Spin maga-
zine, and in June he is traveling to
Ireland to do a series on five emerging
young Irish writers for the BBC (“They
like my accent because, with the
Southern accent, it’s like we’re the bas-
tard cousins or something”). On the

horizon is a series on the great dams of
the world.

After teaching at the Sewanee
Writers’ Conference in July, Richard
plans to spend a semester at the Univer-
sity of Mississippi in the fall, where
John Grisham is an adjunct faculty
member. “People don’t understand that
books like mine rarely make money,” he
explains. “The bigger books like
Grisham’s are the moneymakers for a
publishing house—this gives them the
luxury to offer people like me contracts.
If there were no John Grishams, there
would be no Mark Richards.”

Beyond the first of next year, Richard
has no idea what will come next—and_
that prospect excites and inspires him.
“I may have only two more books in me
and then I'll go into the seminary or I'll
be a reporter for the BBC,” he says.
“I’ve never felt that anything I did in
my life was crucial to my ultimate hap-
piness.”

Remembering that Washington and
Lee was the first place where he learned —
to “shake off the shackles of expecta-
tion,” as he puts it, what he says of him-
self could hold as true today as it did 18
years ago. “You seem to be this cock-
sure, seafaring guy, and inside you re
afraid. You’re wondering if you’re mak-
ing a mistake but you know that you
cannot do the other thing. You know
that in your heart of hearts you cannot
do what is expected of you. And once —
you've cut something out for yourself,
you've got to follow through. There
were times when I was sleeping in nets
on decks, sleeping under picnic tables,
and I thought: Why did I leave W&L?

“Then I would wake up in the morn-
ing and I would say, ‘Mark, gather up
your things and let’s hit the road and
let’s go. Let’s do this thing we set out t0
do.’” @

 

    
     

i.
ah

 
 

1

i
:

 
 

:
:
rest

   

i
;

     

   

mi
it tt
I

|

|
tlialt
;

id

yi"

 

 

 

Sulizw<=a. 22's
“ wee=saweis

‘or new law school dean Barry Sullivan, the road to Washington and Lee
began in the office of Fifth Circuit Court Judge John Minor Wisdom ’25

By Dick Anderson

15

Photos: Eve Morra

In the midst of Lexington’s Chicago-
like winter—at least, as close to a Windy
City winter as we ever hope to get in
Lexington—Barry Sullivan saw only fair
weather on his two visits to Washington
and Lee’s School of Law. “Both times I
came it was a sunny day and there had
always just been a couple of bad days.
which I took to be a good omen,”
Sullivan recalls with a laugh.

But it’s not the city’s normally mild
climate that persuaded the 45-year-old
Chicagoan to become the 14th dean of
the law school at W&L. “I think that in
teaching and leading a law school, you
can make a tremendous contribution to
the future,” Sullivan says, “and that’s
certainly the most alluring part of the
job. Lawyers play a very important role
in our society, and preparing students to
take on that role is very important. This
is a very interesting time in legal educa-
tion in terms of the changing nature of
the profession. There’s a lot of question-
ing about what a good legal education is
and how law schools can provide it.
‘Those are important issues deserving of
a lot of considered thought, and they are
interesting issues to be involved in.

“What makes W&L such an attrac-
tive place,” he adds, “is not just the
scholarship and teaching, which are
extraordinarily good, but the seriousness
with which the faculty approaches those
questions.”

What makes Sullivan attractive to
W&L is a reputation not only as a first-
rate litigator but as a widely-published
and respected legal scholar whose work
appears in many law reviews, including
the Northwestern University Law Review
and the Yale Law Journal. “Barry is a
person who by deed as well as inclina-
tion spans both the academy and the
practicing profession,” says outgoing
dean Randall P. Bezanson. Adds W&L
president John Wilson: “We are confi-
dent that Barry Sullivan will provide the
leadership to carry the law program to
even greater heights.”

A native of Newburyport, Mass., a
town rich in legal history, Sullivan grad-
uated Phi Beta Kappa from Middlebury
College in Vermont. He earned his
degree cum laude with high honors in
philosophy and political science. He also

16

minored in English and studied with
W&L’s Dabney Stuart, who was a visit-
ing professor there. He considered grad-
uate school in philosophy or political sci-
ence, but the law won out. “1970 wasn’t
a great time to think about a career in
college teaching. There weren’t any
jobs and a lot of my more risk-averse
professors at Middlebury were encour-
aging me to go to law school,” he says.
“IT thought lawyers could do something
to make the world a little better. I still
think that.”

Sullivan attended the University of
Chicago Law School on a National
Honor Scholarship (“which they gave to
people from other parts of the country to
encourage diversity”), and was associate
editor of the university’s Law Review. “I
also met my wife in law school,” he
adds. (In addition to her law degree,
Winnifred Fallers Sullivan has a Ph.D
from the University of Chicago Divinity
School. The Sullivans have two sons—
George, 11, and Lloyd, 8.)

You don’t have to look far down
Sullivan’s 14-page resume to find a
W&L connection. His first job out of
law school was a yearlong clerkship with
Judge John Minor Wisdom ’25, circuit
judge for the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit in New Orleans. “He’s
one of the most wonderful people I’ve
ever known,” Sullivan says. “My father
died when I was in law school. In some
respects, I felt like | was adopted by
Judge Wisdom, but all of his law clerks
feel that way. He’s just a terribly warm,
wonderful person, in addition to being
one of the greatest—and most coura-
geous—judges of our time.”

At the end of Sullivan’s clerkship, he
married Winni and went to work as an
associate for Jenner & Block, a national-
ly prominent, Chicago-based firm with
more than 350 attorneys and additional
offices in Lake Forest, Ill., Miami, and
Washington, D.C. “I was interested in
doing litigation, and Jenner & Block
was, and is still, one of the great litigat-
ing law firms in the country,” Sullivan
says. (Name partner Bert Jenner was
involved in the Watergate Committee as
Republican counsel until the Republi-
cans fired him “for an excess in enthusi-
asm in figuring out what went on.”) “As

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  

associates, we learned from the partne
and we learned from each other.
believed in doing pro dono work.”

In early 1980 Sullivan left the firm
serve for almost two years as an assistar
to the solicitor general of the Uni
States at the Department of Justice ;
Washington, D.C., returning to Jenne
& Block as a partner in December of ¢h
following year. At Justice, we worked fx
Solicitor General Wade McCree, a fo,
mer federal judge who later taught g
Michigan.

Among the 104 appellate cases on hj
resume, a number stand out for Sullivay
(and that’s not even counting a 197}
breach-of-contract case, eventually set
tled out of court, titled Madison Squa
Garden Boxing Inc. v. Muhammad Ali
During his time at the Justice Depart
ment, he successfully argued County ¢
Washington v. Gunther (1981), a landmz
case wherein the U.S. Supreme Cou
held, 5-4, that the Civil Rights Act o
1964 prohibited unequal pay for wom
in addition to racial minorities. Back i
private practice, he filed a brief for th
Lawyers Committee for Civil Right
Under Law in Batson v. Kentucky (1986)
another landmark case involving racié
discrimination in the selection of juro
and he briefed two follow-up Supre
Court cases.

He also successfully had a deat
penalty murder conviction overturne¢
People v. Wilson involved a man who hat
been accused and convicted of killiny
two Chicago police officers whe
Sullivan took on the case as court
appointed counsel. He showed in hi
appeal that Wilson’s constitutiona
rights had been violated in about 12 dif
ferent ways—from racial discriminatio
in jury selection (“it’s not an easy thi
in a place like Cook County to get rid ¢
all the black jury men”) to hypnotical
induced evidence and a confessi0
which the defendant maintained hat
been beaten out of him by means 0
radiator burns and the sending of ele
tric current through his genitals. Th
conviction was overturned, and the cas¢
eventually led to an Amnesty Inte
national investigation of the practices
the Chicago police department and th
disciplinary proceedings against sever

—

Chicago police officers. a.

On the business side of litigation,
Sullivan has argued a large number of
cases ‘nvolving railroad reorganizations,
the most personally rewarding of which
case ‘involving the tiny Chicago,
iri and Western line, preserving
for a section of Illinois.

was a
Missolt
railroad service
“If the railroad h |
ic would have had a devastating effect
e economy there,” he recalls.
n has also argued a wide range of
appeals in areas as diverse as tax and
securities, medical staff privileges, and
medical malpractice. He has represent-
ed the University of Illinois in a wide
variety of constitutional litigations, and
his oral arguments have taken him from

ad gone out of business,

on th
Sulliva

Seattle to Atlanta.
More recently, Sullivan has devel-

oped an expertise in AIDS and the law,
an interest that grew out of the work he
was doing for the American Bar Associ-
ation. In December 1987, Sullivan was
asked by the ABA president and chair-
man of the Section of Individual Rights
and Responsibilities to chair an ABA-
wide commission on AIDS to define the
legal problems caused by the AIDS epi-
demic and to make recommendations to
the House of Delegates, which is the
policy-making body of the ABA.

Sullivan oversaw the work of about
15 people on the commission represent-
ing many different viewpoints, from
civil liberties lawyers to people who rep-
resented insurance companies. “They
wanted someone who didn’t have any
baggage—who didn’t have a lot of petri-
fied positions—who could be an honest
broker and bring this divergent, expert
group together—although, like anything
else, you gain the expertise and become
opinionated,” he recalls.

In six months’ time, the group wrote
a 250-page book titled AJDS: The Legal
Issues (“Everybody participated in the
discussions and took a hand in doing the
drafting”). During the next year, the
group produced a set of more than 50
policy points and recommendations as to
what the law should be in about 14
areas. The policy points, which were
supported by a 150-page report, was
subsequently adopted by the House of
Delegates “with one very minor
change,” he notes proudly.

But it may be that the production of a
directory of legal resources for people
with AIDS covering legal aid, bar associ-
ation referral panels, etc., in all 50 states
that “practically speaking, was the most
important thing we’ve done,” Sullivan
says. “Nothing is more important than

 

Sullivan al

4 lremend,,

 

hicago offices of Jenner @ Block: “In teaching and leading a law school, you can make

‘ribution to the future, and that’s certainly the most alluring part of the job.”

putting together lawyers willing to
donate their time with people desper-
ately in need of representation.” On the
other side of the equation, the group
created a manual on how local bar asso-
ciations and others should go about set-
ting up a program of pro bono services
for people with AIDS as well as a 30-
minute video aimed at encouraging
lawyers to get involved. Michael Mori-
arty, star of T'V’s “Law and Order,” con-
tributed his time for the narration.

Sullivan’s career as a teacher began in
his senior year at Middlebury, when he
taught a course in political philosophy,
“and as they say, I was drawn to teach-
ing,” he recalls. In 1979, he taught a
course in civil procedure at Loyola Law
School in Chicago, an upperclass course
where he used problems from real cases
to simulate pre-trial motion practice,
and for the last four years he’s enjoyed a
relationship with Northwestern Law
School as an adjunct professor and as a
visiting professor teaching and writing at
the same time. At Northwestern, he has
taught civil procedure for first-year stu-
dents, a course on public law remedies
for upperclass students, and an AIDS
and the law seminar for upperclass stu-
dents. “I decided I couldn’t teach and
write and practice law in my spare
time,” he jokes. He also serves
as a member of the visiting com-
mittee of the University of
Chicago Divinity School and a
trustee of the Catholic Theolog-
ical Union at Chicago, the largest
Catholic school for ministry in
the United States.

So now he’s giving up the
practice of law to devote the
immediate future to legal educa-
tion. Among his earliest inspira-
tions was John W. Davis, the
subject of William H. Har-
baugh’s biography Lawyer’s
Lawyer, who may be best known
these days as the losing attorney
in Brown v. Board of Education of
Topeka (1954). “He was quite a
fine appellate lawyer,” Sullivan
says admiringly—and a W&L
alumnus as well (1892, 1895L).

Sounds like another good
omen. ®

17

4

ed PY
~ m . a
& a a

an ene ae "2

 

"60 FINDS A HOME

AWAY FROM HOME FOK THE

CARTOON COLLECTION OF A LIFETIME.
BY DICK ANDERSON

”,
<
Le
O
s
ad
Lid
Y~)
a
>

AKT WOOD

 

BLIOW BAZ :SO}OUd

 

 

RN I RO a

: v3 wars
ee

 

lhe J. Arthur Wood collection for the National Gallery of Caricature and Gartoon Art:

“Jazz and the cartoon.” Wood says. “are the two major American contributions to art.”

Art Wood dreams in word balloons.

For more than half a century now, the
1950 Washington and Lee graduate and
card-carrying member of the National
Cartoonists Society has collected origi-
nal artwork from just about everyone
who has ever made us laugh with a
punchline or a sight gag or even a biting
satiric wit. From political cartoonists
Thomas Nast (whose corrupt “Boss
Tweed” is a staple of U.S. history text-
books) and Pat Oliphant to Charles
Addams and Charles Schulz, Wood
owns 40,000 pieces of original artwork—
that’s forty thousand drawings—spanning
three centuries and 3,000 artists.

20

It’s a one-of-a-kind collection, and a
visit to Wood’s unassuming five-bed-
room home in Rockville, Md., is an eye-
popping experience for even the casual
cartoon connoisseur. Framed originals
greet you everywhere: doorways, sitting
rooms, the kitchen, even the bathrooms.
Works by every Pulitzer Prize-winning
cartoonist hang chronologically in the
hallway upstairs. A child’s bedroom is
decorated with priceless animation cels
from such Disney classics as Fantasia,
Pinocchio, and Snow White and the Seven
Dwarfs. Custom-built cabinets and files
house the bulk of the collection, all
carefully filed by subject and cartoonist.

The genial Wood has worked toward
securing a permanent home for his eo}.
lection for more than 30 years, but the
end result has been as elusive as, say,
Lucy’s football from Charlie Brown’s
reach. That’s all about to change with
the opening this spring of the Museum
of Caricature and Cartoon Art on Capito]
Hill in Washington, D.C. Thanks to the
efforts of Oliphant, cartoonist Dick
Locher (Dick Tracy), and other artists and
politicians, Wood’s dream is now being
realized—and the only person happier
than Wood may be his bride of 42 years,
Sallie. Glancing out over the ping-pong
table, card tables, and numerous other
surfaces covered with the approximately
135 framed treasures that will constitute
the museum’s permanent exhibit, he
says, “My wife can’t wait to get them
out of the family room.”

Wood started collecting when he was
12 with the help of a friend whose father —
ran United Features Syndicate and
NEA, two major suppliers of comic
strips. Back then, “Everybody worked at
the syndicate,” he recalls, and young
Wood would accompany his father,
Roosevelt administration attorney J.
Arthur Wood ’24L, on business trips to
New York. With his well-placed connec-
tions, he visited the offices of the other
major syndicates, met the artists, and
came away with signed originals. “Most
of the comics artists lived to be very
old,” he says. “Part of the fun of collect-
ing for me has been to know the artists.”

During World War II, Wood toiled in
the bullpen of the Bureau of Naval
Personnel in Washington, drawing
comic strips, VD posters, even top secret
cartoon work on the atomic bomb, all
the while working alongside such future
funnies notables as Dennis the Menace cte-
ator Hank Ketcham. He was working 0m
an animated training film for dancer-pro-
ducer Gene Kelly when the bomb was
dropped. Then came W&L.

 

As a student, Wood brought such
four-color giants as Alex Raymond
(Flash Gordon) and Hal Foster (Prince
Valiant) to Lee Chapel as speakers. He
drew for the Péi and its competitor
paper, but did the bulk of his ’tooning
for The Southern C lollegian. His most last-
ing legacy at W&L, however, may be a
bicentennial booklet, edited by Wood,
featuring contributions by many of the
dav’s leading cartoonists, including
Erie Bushmiller (Nancy), Chic Young
(Blondie), and Chester Gould (Dick
Tracy), drawn especially for W&L’s
birthday. An A//ey Oop page created for
the publication will be on permanent
display at the museum.

After college, Wood had one primary
aspiration. “I wanted to be a cartoonist
in Washington,” he says, “but the bases
were always loaded.” He worked for a
time at the Washington Star (“I was way
down the line, number four or five”)
before going to work for the Richmond
News Leader and editor Douglas Southall
Freeman. From there it was on to the
Pittsburgh Press, and then eventually
back to Washington as an editor for the
Bell Telephone System. “All my papers
have folded,” he laments. “Most cities
have become one-newspaper towns and
you get only one editorial view.”

Other things have changed since
Wood began amassing his collection.
Original cartoon art has gone from being
consigned to the dumpster (where
Wood has fished out many originals over
the years) to commanding high prices, as
recent comics-related auctions at Sothe-
by’s will attest. “Most everybody’s sell-
ing their work now,” he says of today’s
“artoonists. “They know I’m not selling
that it’s going into the museum.”

Wood has put together 16 national
and international shows for the likes of
the Metropolitan in New York, the

re in Paris, even Madame Tus-
‘aud’s in London. He moderated a lec-

ii

  
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
       
    
   
  
 

 

IN THE INTEREST OF CONTEMPORARY GET A LOAD OF OU

  
  
     
  
 
 
   
       
 

   
     

      
 

   
     

  
 
 
 

    

    
 

    
  

    
      

LITERATURE, I SHALL ENDEAVOR TO f OOP TRYIN! T! BE

ILLUSTRATE THE PROCEDURE EM- a ACADEMIC! oe
PLOYED TO PUT A COMIC-STRIP cian . xf
CHARACTER THROUGH i! My
«ZZ ris DAILY STINT — i} - S
A > ff 7 ne”
; ALY PT fi thie <— oy
, DY AB i= Gees ;
iy ute Bi) ae a Be ee a ae NX) 7

at & "DS. a ESE Tee )

= ne woes be 4 “he:

UNIVERSIT VOW] VS RAMELN

       

 

 

      

FROM TWO TO THREE
REQUIRES MORE EFFORT,
BUT WITH A STRONG
CHARACTER (T'S NOT
TOS TOUGH --

THE HERO'S PROGRESS
FROM PANEL ONE
TO PANEL TWO

IS ROUTINE --

ANDO THUS THE FIRST TIER IS
EASILY NEGOTIATED, BUT NOT
WITHOUT A HINT OF
DIFFICULTIES
TO COME--

        

one)

 

 

 

OFTEN A BIT OF
HEADWORK LESSENS
WEAR AND TEAR ON
THE PHYSIQUE --

BUT AT ABOUT THIS POINT, WHICH NATURALLY MUST BE
».’ READER INTEREST ” FOLLOWED BY REACTION--
} DEMANDS 4

 

 

 

 

 
   
  

     
  

 

 

NOW, DUE TO THE INJECTION OFL [TOUCHING OFF THE FROM WHICH THE CHARACTER
ADVERSITY, THE EMOTIONAL VIOLENCE REQUIRED EMERGES VICTORIOUS, \ ° »
ELEMENT ENTERS NATO REACH ALBEITALITTLE THE ng
THE THEME-- 2 “™\ THE WORSE FOR WEAR! o/r¥
CLIMAX-- :
aye
“Ys

 

 

“Alley Oop at Washington and Lee,” created for the bicentennial booklet 200 Years Young,

is among the 135 cartoons on continuous display at the museum, which opens later this spring.

ture series at the Smithsonian, “Giants Wood has three architects working to
of Cartoon Art,” for eight years, drawing get the museum ready for opening by
enthusiastic crowds for the likes of Gary the end of May—with all the red tape in
Larson (The Far Side) and Milton Caniff Washington, that date is tentative at
(Terry and the Pirates). And now, finally, best—and in the meantime, he’s still
there’s the museum, which will occupy working at the medium that he loves,
a duplex adjacent to the Frederick turning out three cartoons a week and
Douglass House Museum in the 300 planning future exhibitions for the
block of A Street Northeast in Washing- museum. “What I’ve been working to
ton. With French windows on the third do,” he explains, “is to make the cartoon
floor and a fireplace in every room, the a major American art form.”
building boasts two floors for exhibition But once that’s done—once the cabi-
space, a floor for personnel, and another nets and files have been emptied—
floor for computer scanning (the entire what’s he going to do with all that stor-
40,000-piece collection is being cata- age space at home? Wood grins broadly,
logued, piece by piece, on CD-ROM). “We're going to fill it up again.” @

21

Divine [nterventior

Witness this: At least 170 alumni have heeded the call of a church or synagogue. One in 100 students
campus today are religion majors. Who are the preachers and teachers of W&L? ¢ By William Cocke

“Honest thinking and serious intent” were the words used
by Washington and Lee president Francis Pendleton Gaines to
describe nine members of the Class of 1954. The students he
referred to were not much different from their peers that
year—fraternity men, football players, and amateur thespians
among them—but the June 1954 issue of the A/umni Magazine
contains a brief item about their plans for the future:

“An unusually large number from one class,” it says, “will
continue their studies next fall in preparation for the ministry.”

“We were a class of teachers and preachers,” notes Frank
Parsons °54, director of capital planning at W&L, and he’s not
far off the mark. Today, all but one of those named in the arti-
cle are still in the ministry, serve as professors of religion, or are
in some sort of other religious vocation. And they are not alone.
Alumni records show there are at least 170 alumni—including
three Episcopal bishops, two rabbis, and Pat Robertson ’50—
who have heeded the call of the church or synagogue. And
while the Class of ’54 may be a little out of the ordinary for a
school that, at the time, did not even have a religion major,
what is not unusual is that, for decades, Washington and Lee
has been turning out men—and now women—who have felt
the need to use their education for a non-secular calling.

Before religion became a separate entity at the University in
1959, the history and philosophy departments filled the void
with offerings such as Old Testament History and Literature,
Comparative Religion, and Philosophy of Religion. William
Morton, who was then chairman of philosophy at W&L, taught
some of the more religiously inclined students at his home.

22

  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

With the arrival of David Sprunt in 1954, the religi
department came into being, though for the next several yea
religious and philosophical studies shared the same dep
mental umbrella. In 1960, Louis Hodges, now the Fletet
Otey Thomas Professor of Bible at W&L, became the sece¢
member of the department, which expanded in the 197
when the late Minor Rogers joined the faculty to teach cou
in Japanese Buddhism. In 1971, a religion major was offered
the first time, with no fewer than 12 courses covering not 0
Christianity but other religious traditions, such as those fi
India, China, and Japan. Three years later, an ethics prog
was added and by 1984, two courses in Christian thought f
evolved into a four-course sequence in “Christian Histori
Theology and Ethics.”

Today, Hodges is director of the University’s progré
Society and the Professions: Studies in Applied Ethics, and t
department’s five-member faculty includes professors Hé
Beckley and Winston Davis and associate professors Alexan
Brown and Richard Marks. Of 29 religion offerings, eight foc
primarily on Christianity; five are concerned with Judaism, i
deal with Buddhism, Islam, and other religious traditions
Japan, China, and India; and the remainder treat a broad raf
of topics in the history, philosophy, and sociology of religion.

At present, one out of every 100 undergraduates enrolle¢
W&L, or 16 students, have declared religion as their ma
course of study. And out of the present student population, it
estimated that about 25 percent of them will take at least 0
course in religion this year at Washington and Lee.

 

 

sk any number of alumni why they chose a religious

vocation, and it’s clear that a religion major is not a necessary
prerequisite to one’s later career. In the ’50s and ’60s this was
true, of course, because there was no major. But for almost
everyone, choosing to go into the ministry or becoming a
teacher takes a lot of soul-searching.

“I stumbled into religion late at Washington and Lee,”
recalls David Anderson °76, an ordained Methodist minister
and one of three chaplains at St. Christopher’s, a boy’s prep
school in Richmond. “Dr. Sprunt’s New Testament class fit a
nice spot in my schedule and I liked it. I eventually started
taking more classes, particularly with Harlan Beckley.” As a
senior, Anderson felt pressure to go to law school, and Beckley
began talking to him about divinity school, “even though |
didn’t listen to him at the time,” he says. “Then, after about a
year of wondering what to do with my life, I decided to go on
to the divinity school at Vanderbilt. I had no intention at the
time of going into the ministry. It was a time of searching for
me. During this period, both Vanderbilt [where he received his
M.Div.] and Harlan were very helpful and supportive. W&L
let me know that there was something else out there. It set me
on a path where I was on the lookout for something more.”

Other students, such as Richard Harbison 54, were influ-

24

,URR DATZ 7:

IINISTER

“A church means
community, just like
a fraternity means
community.

It’s the beginning

ot a pre cess.”

 

enced by something that happened on campus. Harbison had
been thinking about going into the ministry for years but kept
putting off the decision. ‘Then the University brought in two
speakers in conjunction with an event called Religious
Emphasis Week. “That had a terrific influence on my leaning
toward the ministry and discovering my own faith,” he recalls.
“These two visitors were such dynamic speakers that they
shaped my thinking at a crucial time.” Harbison attended St.
Andrew’s University in Scotland on a Rotary Scholarship for
the 1954-55 school year, and it was there, in the divinity school
that he decided to go into the ordained Presbyterian ministry.
Now pastor of First Presbyterian Church in Lynchburg, Va.
Harbison is giving the Baccalaureate address at W&L June 1.
For Lane Steinger °68, W&L afforded him the chance to
return to what had been a dream since childhood. “From the
time I was eight years old, I wanted to be a rabbi,” says Stein-
ger, who is rabbi at Temple Emanu-El in suburban Detroit.
His parents didn’t share his enthusiasm for the synagogue, but
he found a support group at the University that included the
late Steve Stephenson in the German department (Steinger’s
major) and religion professors Sprunt and Hodges. Others who
encouraged him while in Lexington were Rabbi Ephraim
Fischhoff of Lynchburg; Holmes Irving, rector of R.E. Lee
Church; and even “Mom” Fletcher, his house mother at Zeta
Beta Tau fraternity. “They were all people who helped me
decide that a rabbi was what I wanted to be,” says Steinge’s
who was ordained in 1973 and served a congregation near Pitts
burgh before moving to his present position in Oak Park, Mich.

 

 

Religious life at Washington and Lee has always benefited
from a rich array of formal and informal support systems. An
interactive YMCA program helped meet the spiritual needs of
students in the 1950s, and that was succeeded by the
University Christian Association, a “nondenominational group
in which all students are welcome to participate, regardless of
church or creed,” overseen by the University chaplain. By the
late 1960s, the UCA was working with the University Federa-
tion of Christian Concern, an interdenominational group of
Protestants and Catholics. Both groups conducted cooperative
programs with Lexington churches, which provided outreach
programs during this period and continue to do so even now.

Religious activity at W&L today includes informal student
Sroups, chapters of various national organizations, and campus
ministry programs sponsored by area churches. Such organiza-
tions include the Baptist Student Union, Campus Crusade for
Christ, the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, the InterVarsity
Christian Fellowship, the Lutheran Student Movement, and
the Hillel Association. “The University’s support for those who
Want to seek a religious life has in no way diminished,” says
Thomas Litzenburg °57, director of the Reeves Center and act-
ing University chaplain. Washington and Lee, he adds, has
paver Strayed from one of Robert E. Lee’s guiding precepts:

Lee, for whom religious life was fundamental, always
believed that its expression should be utterly voluntary.”
Whatever decade a student happens to come along at

Ashington and Lee, one constant remains—the University’s

“MPhasis on the liberal arts. For students who are so inclined,

<a

LLANE STEINGER ’68
RABBI, TEMPLE EMANU-EL

“At Washington and
lee, | was able to
return to what had
been a dream from
childhood—to be

a rabbi.”

the arts and humanities may awaken a sense of purpose that
finds its best expression in a religious vocation.

‘The deciding factor may manifest itself through the influ-
ence of a teacher or other mentor. William ‘Thomas °54, now
professor of philosophy and religion at James Madison
University and an ordained Presbyterian minister, remembers
the training he received under philosophy professors William
Morton and Edward Myers. Charles Swezey °57, dean of facul-
ty at Union ‘Theological Seminary in Richmond and the Annie
Scales Rogers Professor of Christian Ethics, cites James G.
Leyburn as a great influence and corresponded with him until
just before Leyburn’s death last year at age 91. “Dean Leyburn
brought me back to Lexington when I served at the Lexington
Presbyterian Church from 1962 to 1970,” he says. “We taught
Sunday school for eight years together.”

And for Peter Lee ’60, now bishop of the Episcopal Diocese
of Virginia, dean of students and director of admissions Frank
Gilliam was a major figure: “I am one of several dozen
Episcopal clergy resulting from his influence. He would growl
at me and say that I should consider the clergy.”

Bishop Lee, who majored in history at W&L, resoundingly
endorses a liberal arts education for people going into religion.
“It gives you a sense of perspective on ways human beings
have sought to find meaning in their lives,” he says. “It tem-
pers fanaticism.” And as someone in the business of ordaining
people, Lee finds that those with liberal arts backgrounds
“have a better awareness of all human experience.” He recalls
Sunday mornings when he and others in his fraternity would

25

DAVID ANDERSON ’76

CHAPLAIN, ST. CHRISTOPHER’ ’S

“I stumbled into

religion late at W&L.”

JEFFREY SPENCE ‘71
NATIONAL CONFERENCE OI!
CHRISTIANS AND JEWS

“Dr. Sprunt was a sort of

father figure.’

slip away before anyone was up, go to Robert E. Lee Memorial
Church for worship, and be back in time for breakfast.

This wouldn’t surprise William “Burr” Datz ’75. He is find-
ing out that the fraternity system harbors more than just beer
and bravado. As the campus minister for St. Patrick’s Catholic
Church, Datz recently conducted an “imagination exercise” for
a group of recently inducted pledges at one of the Red Square
fraternities. He calls the exercise “Shopping for Values”: “We
pretend that they’ve won the lottery and they get to pick
between material things and more intangible things like truth,
honor, and compassion. They then write their choices on an
index card and turn them in to me.” Datz didn’t blink when he
looked at the cards and found that, instead of mountain bikes
and stereos, the students had chosen: Friendship, Integrity,
Perseverance, Respect, and Honor. “By giving them permis-
sion to talk, I am always amazed and touched by their
response,” he says. “A church means community, just like a
fraternity means community. It’s the beginning of a process.”

If Datz is working on a grass-roots level close to home,
Jeffrey Spence ’71 is doing the same on a state and national
level as executive director for the Virginia region of the
National Conference of Christians and Jews, a nonprofit
human relations organization founded in 1927 to fight bias,
racism, and prejudice nationwide. Spence, one of the first two
religion majors to graduate from W&L, credits professors
Hodges and Sprunt with providing him with well-timed guid-
ance. Hodges “was the person through whom I was able to
define my commitment to the ministry,” he says. “Dr. Sprunt

26

 

 

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  

was a wise counselor and a sort of father figure.”

Spence was ordained in the United Church of Christ in 1974
and joined the NCCJ four years later. He conducts human re
tions training for law enforcement agencies to guide poli¢
toward a better understanding of a diverse society and doe
likewise with youth groups. He also sets up intergroup dia-
logues between different, sometimes antagonistic, segments ¢
society. He recently hosted a Christian-Jewish-Muslim dia
logue at Christopher Newport College in Newport News, Va.

Spence’s relationship with Hodges continues to this day
and he regularly participates in Hodges’ Ethics and th
Professions institutes at W&L, including a March session on
journalism. “As an ethicist,” he says, “I provide a view from
someone who is not a member of that particular profession.”

ashington and Lee continues to graduate students

who want to go into the ministry and those who want to teach. |
Will Jones ’92 was a senior history major with only two reli
gion courses to his credit when he decided over Christmas
he wanted to go into the ministry. After graduating, he worke¢
as a youth director for his home church in Memphis, learnin
the Monday-through-Friday administrative aspects of how
church operates, and now he’s in his first year at Columbi
Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga., with two more yeats ®

 

KERRY EGAN 795
RELIGION MAJOR

“T would like to change
the world—print that.”

KELLY BROTZMAN 795
RELIGION AND ENGLISH
DOUBLE MAJOR

“T want to go for a Ph.D

and eventually teach.”

go. In his last year, he’ll take four ordination exams—“sort of
like a religious bar exam,” he says—and receive an M.Div.
upon graduation. From there, he will interview with various
Presbyterian churches and “hope to find a good match.”

A classmate of Jones’, Sonja Tillberg was similarly preoccu-
pied with her economics and politics major during much of her
time at W&L. “I thought about going into the ministry as far
back as high school when I was working with my church,” says
Tillberg, who was raised as a Lutheran in rural Pennsylvania.
“Then, as I was studying economics and politics, it became
evident that things in my background had shaped my view of
social issues. By my junior and senior years, I began to realize
that this was a major influence in my life and that I should
share it—and Harlan Beckley always said you don’t have to be
a religion major to go into the ministry.”

Tillberg is finishing up her first year at Yale Divinity School
and will receive a M.Div. in two years. “The things I’ll do
Within the ministry will never be far from social issues,” she
Says, “so my majors were not a contradiction.”

Junior religion majors Kelly Brotzman and Kerry Egan are
Close friends—something that is not unusual among the tight-
knit group of religion majors, many of whom go into non-reli-
510us vocations. Brotzman and Egan both plan to pursue acade-
mic careers, though in different directions. Brotzman, a religion
and English double major, is specializing in ethics and system-
“te theology, with a focus on Judeo-Christian traditions. She
*witched from a chemistry major after taking a religion class
under Beckley. “I want to go for a Ph.D and eventually teach,”

i

 

 

she says. “Graduate school was the logical choice because I’m
the bookish sort.”

Egan leaned toward a major in English, then philosophy,
when Alexandra Brown’s course in Women in Western
Religious Tradition hooked her on religion for good (“It was a
fluke”). “I am more interested in comparative religion than
Kelly is,” says Egan. “I want to find out how peoples’ religions
affect other aspects of their lives—their public lives. How reli-
gion affects health and women’s status. How religion affects
social structure in Third World countries. You have to under-
stand the religious underpinnings before you can understand
their world view.”

“I would like to change the world,” she adds, laughing.
“You can print that.”

gan’s enthusiasm is infectious, particularly if you
think of the scores of alumni out there who, because of “honest
thinking and serious intent,” are contributing to making other
peoples’ lives easier or more meaningful. Those who choose
religious vocations are perhaps the ultimate example of the
value of a liberal arts education. It may take them a while to
figure out where they’re going, but once decided, they rarely
forsake their mission.

“Change the world?” She just might. @

27

W&L Law

 

From left, symposium co-organizer Laura Anderson ’94L; former San Jose police chief Joseph McNamara; and Memphis judge D’Army Bailey,

A distinguished group of speakers
from a range of professional back-
grounds—including law enforcement,
social science, the judiciary, academia,
social work, the Justice Department,
and capital defense representation—
gathered in the Moot Courtroom of
Lewis Hall on March 11 for a sympo-
sium on race and the criminal justice
system. The symposium, ““To Establish
Justice’: Race, Crime, and Law in
America,” was sponsored by the Frances
Lewis Law Center, the Black Law
Students’ Association, and the Washing-
ton and Lee Law Review. Students, pro-
fessors, and practicing attorneys, includ-
ing a number of W&L alumni, attended
the conference, which was approved by
the Virginia Mandatory CLE Board for
credit.

In the wake of the Rodney King
beating and the highly publicized trials
that followed, the effect of race and fair-
ness within the criminal justice system
has become an issue of national concern.
The symposium explored a number of
race-related issues arising in all phases
of the system, from encounters between
police officers and citizens, to arrest and
prosecution, to sentencing.

King’s case was cited more than once
as an example of race affecting criminal
justice. The panelists agreed that, if
there had not been a videotape of the
beating, we would never have heard of
Rodney King. The case against the

28

Race, Crime, and Law in America

Symposium Focuses on Criminal Justice System

police officers would probably never
have gone to trial.

According to Lawrence S. Middleton,
assistant U.S. attorney for the Central
District of California, the Rodney King
case is the perfect example of racial dis-
crimination in the criminal justice sys-
tem. Middleton, a University of Virginia
law graduate, was a member of the fed-
eral prosecution team that prosecuted
the police officers charged in the beat-
ings. He was joined by other panelists in
the first session, “Race in the Court-
room,” who pointed to patterns of racial
injustice in venue determinations, jury
selections, racial imagery, and verdicts.

“Racial discrimination is one of the
biggest problems society faces today.”
said panelist Bryan Stevenson, a defense
attorney who represents death row pris-
oners in the South. Stevenson grew up
in Alabama aware of the impact of the
civil rights movement, but sees little
evidence of civil rights when he walks
into the courtroom. “Law school,” he
added, doesn’t prepare you for being
there on execution day.”

Stevenson praised the symposium for
the courage and interest to confront the
problem: “When we confront racial bias
and overcome it, we create hope.”

Judge D’Army Bailey of Memphis,
Tenn., spoke at length on race in the
courtroom, especially in jury selection.
Like other speakers, Bailey readily
acknowledged that prosecutors use race

  
   
    
  
   
   
  
 
  
   
 
  
    
    
 
  
  
  
   
 
    
  
   

in the courtroom, but candidly no J
that as a defense attorney he used rae
at times to try and gain an advantage j
areas such as jury selection. From hi
perspective, the challenge was to formu
late approaches which acknowledge
the reality that both sides—the prose
tion and defense—are trying to wi
their case and that assumptions base
on race will enter into their strategies.

Joseph McNamara, a panelist in th
discussion on “Race, Crime, and Pur
ishment,” began his 35-year career as
policeman in Harlem in 1956 and madi
his first arrest for first-degree murde
“Crime and violence hit the inner-cit
poor more than anywhere else,” sak
McNamara, onetime police chief of Sa
Jose and Kansas City and a research fe
low at Stanford University. He note
that since 1914, a huge drug industh
has increased violence and, though me
drug users are whites, the arrest rate 8
nearly five times higher for non-whites. —

Fay W. Hobbs, a rehabilitation coun
selor in Lexington and Rockbridge
County, spoke on the socioeconomie
factors and the need for more funding OF
youth programs to steer adolescen®
away from a life of drugs and crime. Het
message was a powerful statement OM
the need to instill in these youth a sens
of self-esteem and importance afte
childhoods that rarely provide the emé
tional or educational support necessé
for them to succeed in society.

-_

An afternoon session took “An
Empirical [ook at Race and the Crim-
‘nal Justice System.” David C. Baldus,
professor of law at the University of
lowa, spoke on the topic of his research
which included a landmark study of
Georgia’s death penalty, which statisti-
cally demonstrated that defendants are
significantly more likely to receive the
death penalty if they kill a white rather
than a black victim. The Baldus study
formed the basis of the defendant’s
argument to the Supreme Court in
McCleskey v. Kemp that the death penalty
was being unconstitutionally imposed.

Although at times some of the pan-
elists voiced extreme pessimism, the
conference ended on a note of cautious
optimism that solutions to the problem
are possible. Speaker after speaker
emphasized however, that harsher
penalties could not ultimately solve the
crime problem. Any hope lies in pursu-
ing strategies that look at the root causes
of crime and that attempt to confront
problems such as drug abuse through
rehabilitation programs rather than
through blanket incarceration.

“I think the symposium succeeded in
presenting a candid picture of the crimi-
nal justice system and in furthering the
public dialogue on critical issues involv-
ing race,” says law professor Brian C.
Murchison, who organized the sympo-
sium along with fellow professor Scott
Sundby, Black Law Students’ Associa-
tion president Laura Anderson ’94L,
and Law Review editor Paul F. Kirgis
‘94L. “It was thought provoking and
hopefully started discussion that will
continue about what people can do to
make things better.”

Others in attendance agreed. “It gave
US some real hands-on information and
Was very useful for the practitioner,”
Says Laura Fenn ’93L of the Public
Defender’s Office in Portsmouth, Va.
“A trial lawyer could benefit a great deal
from the perspectives presented here.”

“I thought it was very timely,” adds
Overton P. “Opie” Pollard 54, ’57L,
©x€cutive director of the Virginia Public
Defender Commission in Richmond. “I
Was very impressed with the caliber of
Speakers present. They gave us a lot to
think about.” —By Evan Atkins

a

 

Sydney Lewis 41 and dean Randall P. Bezanson were among those attending the symposium.

W&L Law School Ranked
22nd in U.S. News Survey

The Washington and Lee School of
Law has been ranked 22nd in the coun-
try by U.S. News © World Report in the
magazine’s March 21 issue listing of
“America’s Best Graduate Schools.”

Law schools were ranked using five
criteria: student selectivity, placement
success, faculty resources, and two sepa-
rate measures of institutional reputation.
Overall rank was determined by con-
verting into percentiles the scores
achieved in each category. For the fifth
consecutive year, Yale Law School
earned the top rating among the nation’s
176 accredited law schools.

Washington and Lee was ranked
sixth in the category of faculty re-
sources, which was based mainly on the
school’s total expenditures per student
for instruction, library and supporting
services, and the current student-to
teacher ratio, which at Washington and
Lee is 12 to 1. W&L also scored favor-
ably in the employment category, with
88.3 percent of its graduates employed
six months after graduation.

The U.S. News listing comes on the
heels of the law school’s 19th-place
ranking among the most selective law
schools in the 1994 edition of the
Princeton Review Student Access Guide to

the Best Law Schools. The Princeton
Review guide ranked W&L second, after
Yale, in the quality of life category.

“We are delighted that the law school
has received national attention again for
its quality, and especially that the atten-
tion is focused on our student/faculty
ratio and the quality and accessibility of
our faculty,” says Randall P. Bezanson,
dean of the W&L law school. “It is,
after all, the quality of what we do, not
how we rank, that matters most.”

Powell Book Published

Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr.: A Biography
(Scribners; $30), by John F. Jeffries Jr.,
was published in April. Jeffries, a former
clerk of the retired Supreme Court
Justice and W&L graduate (’29, °31L),
had full access to Powell and his papers
and the cooperation of other justices in
writing this 736-page account of the
Justice’s life. The papers are now stored
in the law school’s Powell Archives.

Elsewhere, William H. Harbaugh’s
1973 work, Lawyer's Lawyer: The Life of
John W. Davis, has been reprinted by
Oxford University Press ($18.95). Davis
graduated from W&L (1892, 1895L) and
was later a professor of law at the Uni-
versity; solicitor general of the United
States; ambassador to Great Britain; and
a U.S. presidential candidate in 1924.

The

Generals
Report

By BRIAN LOGUE
AND JAY PLOTKIN °92

coe

Sophomore Sondra Holmes battles a
Hollins player for the ball. The women’s

basketball team came up winners in their

first season of competitive play.

30

Pleasant surprises and noteworthy
achievements heated up an icy winter sports
season at Washington and Lee. Taking the
floor for the first time, the women’s basket-
ball team posted a winning record on the
season, and the women’s swimming team
reclaimed the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship for the first time in
three years. The wrestling team posted tts
first 500 season since 1987. The men’s bas-
ketball team knocked off NCAA tournament-
bound Amherst while veteran coach Verne
Canfield posted his 450th victory. The men’s
swimming team continued its streak of
national qualifiers while placing second in a

ra TORR

 

competitive championship meet. Both track
teams fared well at the ODAC champt-
onships, with the women’s team winning Its
fifth straight conference title, unofficial
though it ts.

Men’s Basketball

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
 
 

Following a slow 1-5 start, the
Generals regrouped with a key 63-54
victory over Emory & Henry in Decem-
ber and played competitively for the
remainder of the season. W&L finished
the year 9-15, winning four games more
than last year. 7

Among W&L’s most notable wings
was a 70-64 victory over Amherst jn
early January. The Lord Jeffs came to
Lexington undefeated and went on to
qualify for the NCAA tournament,
W&L coach Verne Canfield, in his 30th
season, notched his 450th career win —
with a 102-81 victory over Eastern
Mennonite Feb. 16.

For a team that emphasized youth,
W&L got excellent play from its two
seniors. Matt Newton was a workhorse —
as the team’s only true point guard and —
Robert Miggins led the team in
rebounding and blocked shots and tied ~
with Newton for the lead in steals. —
Sophomore forward Cam Dyer led the
team in scoring, averaging 15 points per
game and earning honorable mention
All-ODAC honors. Sophomore forward
Derek Carter played like a madman the
second half of the season and finished
second in scoring (9.8 points per game)”
and rebounds (5.9 per game). Freshman
guard Chris Couzen moved into the
starting lineup in his fifth game and led
the team in defense while averaging 8.3 ©
points a game.

Women’s Basketball

In its first varsity season, the”
women’s basketball squad shattered
everyone’s expectations by putting ©
together an 11-10 season, winning three —
of its last four games, and finishing see
ond in the season-ending North”
Carolina-Virginia Women’s College”
Tournament. The Generals knocked off
Salem and Randolph-Macon Woman’s —
College before falling to Meredith im”
the championship game.

After an 0-3 start, W&L posted the
program’s first win by nipping St.
Mary’s (Md.) 60-57. Back-to-back wins
over Wesley evened the record at 3-3,
and after a loss to Virginia Wesleyan, the |

&
:
i
°
S
;
U
o
é

Junior Al

Generals scored a big win with a 43-41
decision over Sewanee. W&L’s defense,
which was nationally ranked all year,
forced 41 turnovers in the game.

Freshman Virginia Yoerg was W&L’s
top scorer, averaging 10.4 points a game
off the bench. Sophomore Sandra
Holmes averaged 9.8 points and 6.6
rebounds and senior Nicky Mayfield
averaged 8.5 points and 6.3 rebounds.
Both Holmes and Mayfield were named
to the all-tournament team.

Men’s Swimming

W&L saw its streak of 16 consecutive
victories snapped with a loss to Catholic
in mid-January, but that hardly took the
shine off another excellent season. The
Generals finished the year 5-3, their
10th winning season in the last 11 years,
and placed second (behind the College
of Charleston) in a field of mostly
Division I schools at the Southern States
Championships. W&L beat such schools
as Georgia Southern, Louisville,
Howard, Davidson, and VMI.

Juniors Tony Diederich and John
Rowe and sophomore Craig Sears all
swam NCAA-provisional qualifying
times at the meet, as did the 400 and
800 freestyle relay teams. Diederich,
though, was the only General selected
for the NCAA championships, held

 —_—

 

n John Rowe just missed qualifying for his third NCAA championship meet.

March 17-20 at Williams College. His
selection kept alive a W&L string of
representatives at the championship. At
least one W&L swimmer had garnered
All-America honors in the previous 19
seasons.

No school records fell during the sea-
son, but the 400-yard freestyle mark of
3:09.04 set in 1984 by Gary Meyer, Don
Smith, Tim Stanford, and Bobby Pear-
son narrowly survived. The 1994 team
of Diederich, David Stillman, Roland
Chase, and Sears missed the record by
.09 of a second when they won the race
at the Southern States Championships.

The ODAC women’s swimming
championship returned to its rightful
owner this year. W&L won the champi-
onship from 1988 through 1991, but lost
the crown in 1992 and 1993 despite
dominating the championship meet.
W&L won nearly every event those
years, but a lack of depth prevented
them from claiming the title.

This year W&L won all but one of its
events while tying the school record for
wins in a season (eight) and winning the
Atlantic States title. As testimony to its
depth, five relay teams set school
records at the ODAC championship.

Sophomore Rebekah Prince qualified

for the NCAAs for the second straight
year and won seven events at the
ODAC championship meet. Freshman
Jen Miller also won seven events as she
was named ODAC Swimmer of the
Year. Joining Prince and Miller on the
All-ODAC team were Staci Bertelli,
Susan Fisher, Brandi Henderson, Laura
Marshall, Jill Sheets, and Anne Spencer.

Indoor Track and Field

The women reigned supreme at the
ODAC championship meet once again.
The league does not officially sponsor
women’s track, but W&L won the invi-
tational for the fifth straight year.

Women’s individual winners were
senior co-captain Wendy Neel in the 60-
yard dash, sophomore Amy Mears in the
two-mile run, and freshman Hollis
Leddy in the 440-yard dash. W&L’s
4x440 and 4x880 relay teams both won
and all five winning W&L entries set
new conference records. Junior Sarah
Gilbert placed in five events and was
W&L’s top point scorer.

The men’s team improved upon last
year’s third-place showing by finishing a
solid second. Sophomore Dax Mahoney
won the 440-yard dash and teamed with
Scott Covey, John Robinson, and Hayne
Hodges to win the 4x100 relay.

Wrestling

A squad of young wrestlers grappled
with a number of questions at the outset
of the season, but W&L finished with a
4-4 dual meet record and several strong
invitational showings. The Generals fin-
ished third at the W&L Invitational
with several wrestlers making solid
showings, but the story of the Invita-
tional was sophomore Anthony Rafla. In
his first season of wrestling, Rafla won
the 134-pound title with first-period
pins over the top two seeds.

Junior Eric Shirley also won a title at
the Invitational with an overtime victory
in the 126-pound class. Shirley finished
the season by winning 14 of his final 16
matches to go 14-6 on the year. Sopho-
more Cole Van Nice had W&L’s best
record and was dominating at times,
posting a 16-8 record in his first season.

31

 

    
  
     
         
 

Men’s Basketball (9-15) Women’s Swimming (8-4)

Wrestling (4-4)

Men’s Swimming (5-3)

Women’s
Basketball (11-10)

yr ae
inom er. ae

cae ns yey Yee

aay CED . we Yo ee
Aue 7 Ree

: oe : me ON,
abel? Pant roars 7 ch

“5 s > leet

   

ri.
ae a 27+

a

Chris Couxen (left), a freshman from Union, N.J., averaged 8.3 points a game while shuttimg
down the opposition; sophomore Cole Van Nice (above) led the wrestling team in wins and pms.

oa ae .
EEN ae SS ee

Family [Tradition

Senior Angie Carrington Plays Dual Roles for W&L

Angie Carrington knows something
about the word commitment. As a captain
of the women’s soccer and lacrosse
teams, the All-American athlete spends
seven months out of the school year out
on the playing fields most afternoons
and weekends. As a senior religion
major, she’s an Honor Roll student and
Was recently inducted into Phi Beta
Kappa. On top of all that she finds the
time to serve as a dorm counselor, and
she’s even finding the time to get mar-
tied: While she’d like nothing more than
to lead the Generals into their second
Straight NCAA ‘Tournament, she also
has a wedding to get ready for. “I’m
really, really excited,” she says. “I’m try-
'N§ to keep one foot in each world now.”

Carrington knew all about Washing-
ton and Lee when she was growing up
i" Houston. Her grandfather is the late
Lee McLaughlin, the famed W&L foot-
ball coach who led the Generals to the

na > ; . . .
“onal small college championship in

 ——

1961. Her grandmother still lives here,
and even her stepfather is an alumnus.

But despite the family ties, her deci-
sion to choose W&L was not an easy
one because of what she describes as
“neverending” bloodline to that school
on the other side of the mountain. “I
felt much more pull to UVa,” says Car-
rington, who moved with her family to
Charlottesville before her junior year of
high school. “I felt like I was going
against the grain to come here.”

It was a decision helped by Washing-
ton and Lee’s size more than anything
else: “As a place that would be my home
and community, W&L really attracted
me,” she explains. “It was a feeling-type
decision rather than an objective one.”

Jan Hathorn, who has coached Car-
rington in both soccer and lacrosse over
the last four years, sees an almost artistic
quality to her play. “Athletics is an
expression of something that is a part of
who she is,” she says. “It’s more than

 

she just enjoys the game. She’s truly an
athlete and she has to do it.”

Hathorn and Carrington readily agree
that lacrosse is her more natural sport,
but she’s been successful in both. Car-
rington was twice honored as an AIll-
ODAC soccer player and finished her
career with 16 goals, third-best in W&L
history. She has twice been all-region in
lacrosse and last year earned third team
All-American honors, and enters this
season among the school’s all-time lead-
ing scorers. The soccer and lacrosse
teams she has played on have gone a
combined 69-41-3 with two league
championships in lacrosse and one regu-
lar-season soccer title.

Her role as a dual captain is no sur-
prise to Hathorn: “Her thinking, maturi-
ty and personality are of a leadership
nature. Plus, she’s a good player.”

How does she do it all? “It’s not a
matter of giving up a lot,” she insists. “I
love the games, being outside, the exer-
cise and just being a part of the team.
It’s something I’ve always done and it
flows out of love.”

One last note to future recruiters:
Her June 18 wedding is to former
Generals soccer star Reid Murphy °93.

—By Brian Logue

33

umni News

Los Angeles/Orange Co.,
Baltimore Recognized as
Chapters of the Year

 

A total of 60 W&L alumni and guests
turned out to honor the Los Angeles/
Orange County chapter as Small Chap-
ter of the Year at a dinner March 17.

President and Mrs. John Wilson came
from Lexington for the presentation, as
did James D. Farrar Jr. °74, director of
alumni programs, and Michael T. Boyd,
assistant director of major gifts. Ann and
Walt Fry ’45 traveled from Goleta, about
three-and-a-half hours north of Los
Angeles, to attend the function, while
Cindy and John Klinedinst ’71, ’78L
drove up from San Diego for the occa-
sion. “We had people make strong
efforts to get there,” says Farrar.

Farrar cites the leadership provided
by chapter co-presidents Park [ler °57
and Jack Norberg ’79 with leading the
way for the chapter, which merged from
the two separate groups last year.
“Those guys have worked hard to com-
municate with the chapter and they
have the interest, enthusiasm, and ener-
gy to create chapter events.”

The whole West Coast alumni con-
stituency has grown dramatically over
the last decade, as admission numbers
show. In 1984, a total of five California
residents were enrolled in the Univer-
sity; that number stands at 52 today. “As
the number of law and undergraduate
students from California continues to

 

A Pair of Jacks: Ja & Norbe Ty? ‘79 and Jack

Cook ’38 are all smiles in Los Angeles.

34

 

Wearin’ of the Grins: President Wilson presents Los Angeles chapter co-presidents Park Iler “57
and Jack Norberg ’79 with Small Chapter of the Year plaque on St. Patrick's Day in L.A,

grow, their interest level in alumni activ-
ities grows along with it,” Farrar says.

On the other coast, meanwhile, the
Baltimore chapter was to receive its
Large Chapter of the Year award on
April 5, capping a remarkable turn-
around that began six years ago under
the leadership of Marc Ottinger ’80 and
continues today under current president
Clark Carter ’69.

Under the guidance of Alumni Ad-
missions chair Hugh Robinson ’80, “We
continue to recruit students very heavily
out of Baltimore,” Farrar says, “and the
chapter plans events that are both sub-

stantive and fun.” Among the latter, a

 

Andrew Caruthers ’87. John Gatron 89,

Joe Zasa ’92L., and Michael Kidd ’89.

Robert E. Lee birthday party hosted by
Peggy and Butch West ’65, ’70L turned
out more than 100 alumni and friends in
January. “They’ve got a good family feel
to their alumni chapter,” Farrar adds.

The Alumni Board created the Chap-
ter of the Year recognition program in
1987 to celebrate those chapters that
have done a superior job in promoting
the goals of Washington and Lee
through areas such as student recruit-
ment, career assistance, and chapter pro-
gramming, as well as other criteria
Awards are given to large chapters
(those serving 200 alumni or more) and
small (199 and below).

 

L.A.’s Paul Hendry 80 (right) toasts Cindy
and John Klinedinst’71, ’78L of San Diega-

The House That W&L Built
Junior Francie Cohen, a politics major
from Virginia Beach, is co-founder of the
Washington and Lee Campus Chapter of
Habitat jor Humanity. During Alumni
Weekend, the chapter will be raising money

to build a Habitat house in Lexington, as she

explains helow.

“I always wondered why someone
didn’t do something. Then I realized, |
was somebody =

When | decided that these words of
Albert Camus’ were to be my high
school senior quote, I wasn’t very sure
whether or not I would honestly live my
life according to them. Young liberal
that I was, all that I knew was that I
wanted to save everyone and every-
thing; whether it was protecting Walden
Pond or saving the whales, I became the
champion of a new issue every other
week, it seems.

All of my “issue philandering” came
to an end, however, when I came to
W&L and saw the rampant poverty of
Rockbridge County and the way in
which we all ignore it. When Former
President Jimmy Carter mentioned his
work with Habitat for Humanity while
speaking on campus last year, I realized
that I had finally found a way that I—
along with my Washington and Lee

 

 

 

family—could really make a difference.

The Washington and Lee Campus
Chapter of Habitat for Humanity,
founded by Jackie Van Vliet ’95 and
myself, will work side-by-side with the
local affiliate to eliminate poverty hous-
ing in Lexington. A non-profit organiza-
tion that accepts absolutely no govern-
ment funds, our job is threefold: to edu-
cate Our community about the serious
need for affordable housing and the
work of HFH; to build and rebuild

Skip Lichtfuss ’74 became the
third member of W&L’s lacrosse
team to be inducted into the
Lacrosse Hall of Fame in cere-
monies in Baltimore Feb. 5. W&L
was well represented for the occa-
sion, including many past team-
mates and coaches. Front row (l-
r): Chip Tompkins ’73; former W&L
lacrosse coach and 1994 Hall
inductee Gene Corrigan; Licht-
fuss; former W&L lacrosse coach
Jack Emmer. Second row: David
Warfield °75; Don Carroll ’76; and
Brian Chasney ’74. Third row: Hall
member Ted Bauer ’74; Matt Mont-
gomery ’74; Hall member Skeet
Chadwick °74; and Sam Englehart
’°73. Back row: alumni director Jim
Farrar 74; and Don Eavenson ’73.

” 4 : ; / j : sae ae j
'F0)}] 1} Né p Vil 4/ 1n the hi

DOSS that Li ludl $ (]7 Tt} Jimn
7m paign WN) shal Gerry Lenfe rr o0. Buch
n; Berry Miles; and rector Steve Mil

houses in partnership with the local
affiliate and the Lexington Safe and
Sound Program, respectively; and to
fulfill our most heartfelt goal—a house
that the W&L community raised the
money for and built all on its own.

The last goal, of course, is the most
challenging. A house will cost us
approximately $20,000. Although we
have graciously been given an anony-
mous pledge of $10,000, we must raise
$10,000 in matching funds first or
receive no donation at all. We are excit-
ed by this challenge and are planning
all sorts of fund-raisers, including a few
to be held over Alumni Weekend. We
hope to complete our fund-raising and
begin construction of our house by next
spring. What a great feeling it will be
for us to return to Lexington as alumni
and see all of the houses that Washing-
ton and Lee built!

As a community, we finally have a
way to really be somebody and make a
difference. As students, we are excited
to participate in this project. We hope
that you—as alumni and friends—will
be just as excited to lend a hand in
some way.

(Contributions to the W@L Chapter of
Habitat for Humanity may be sent to
University Center, Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA 24450.)

35

 

” 7 é
j
|

UITMI

CW)

 

Lee’s Lieutenants: From left, trustee Bill
Lemon °55, ’59L, Alumni Board member
Jay Turner ’67, °71L, Roanoke chapter
president Paul Black '82, and Congressman
Bob Goodlatte ’77L celebrate Robert E.
Lee’s birthday at a Jan. 22 gathering in
Roanoke. Goodlatte was elected to Congress

from Virginia’s Sixth District in 1992.

From left. Jane and Howard Packett ’58

among the well-wishers in Roanoke celebrat-
ing Robert E.. Lee’s birthday with a Jan. 22
reception at the Shenandoah Club. Southern
Comfort added a capella harmontes to the

cocktails and hors d oeuvres.

 

On the Road Again: Bettie and Ted Hunt
'52L welcome Roger Libby °95 of Southern
Comfort at the Charlotte chapter's first
annual Robert E. Lee birthday celebration,
held Jan. 15 at the Mint Museum.WGL’s
famed singing group played Greensboro,
N.C., the previous night on a weekend swing
through the Tar Heel State.

JubiLation: Hal Morris ’42 and his wife,
Jean, enjoy the company of JubiLee members
(from left) Jennifer Ray ’94, Melissa Wolf
‘94, Michelle Bauman °97, and Ellen Dean
‘94 at the choral group’s Peninsula stop on

Jan. 21 celebrating—you guessed it

Robert E. Lee’s birthday.

 

Fall Campus Calendar

Aug. 19: Law classes begin.
Sept. 8: Opening convocation.
Sept. 9-10: Hall of Fame and

David Long, W&EL’s director of planned

and capital giving (left), and law dean
Randall P. Bezanson join Connecticut River
Valley chapter president Sandra Fischer

| Class Agents’ Weekend.
QOL for the chapter’s Robert E. Lee Sept. 30-Oct. 1: Homecoming ’94:
birthday party on Jan. 21. Five Star Generals reunion;

chapter presidents’ conference.
Oct. 14-15: Parents’ Weekend.

36

 

and Doris and Frank Rogers ’79, ’84L were

 

Tom Beazlie’71 and his father, Frank |
Beazlie ’40, were among the guests at the
Peninsula chapter's Robert E. Lee birthday
celebration on Jan. 21 at the James River
Country Club in Newport News, Va. Rob
Mish ’76, associate director of alumni
programs, was on hand with a video pre-
sentation of “On the Shoulders of Giants.”

Good Buddies: Dick Sessoms, director of
major gifts at WEL, and Don McFall 64,
‘O9L celebrate the Feb. 24 launch of the
Houston area Campaign for Washington
and Lee, of which McFall is chairman. The
national effort passed the $100 million mark
in February, and Houston hopes to ratse

$6 million for Washington and Lee.

 

Four Star Generals: From left, Virgina Sen.
John Warner ’49, Gray Castle ’53, ’55L,
national campaign chairman Gerry Lenfest
‘53, and Fox Benton ’60 mark the ongoing
success of the Campaign for Washington and
Lee at the Omni Houston on Feb. 24.

-

“Annual Fund

Alumni Giving by Undergraduate and Law Classes

Class/Agen!

02-19

'20-'29

20-'29L

30 Herb Jahncke
"30L

|

SIL

°32

°32L

*33 Charlie Longacre
33L Frank Bigham
"34 Scotty Mosovich
"34L

i)

"35L

"36

"36L

"37

‘37L

38 Ernie Williams II
‘38L

39 George Goodwin
‘39L

'40 Ross Hersey
‘40L

41 Al Fleishman
“41L

"42 Jim Warms

42L

*43A&L Al Darby Jr.
"44A&KL Jay Cook Jr.
‘45AKL

‘46AKL

*47A&L Warren Merrin Jr.

"48 Andy McCutcheon

“48L Carter Allen

"49 Charlie Treadgold

“49L Bill Greer

50 Dug Dugger

‘SOL George Gray

51 Dave Kerr

‘SIL Marvin Bowling Jr.

‘52 Boyd Leyburn Jr.

‘S2L Jake Reed Jr.

‘53 Gray Castle,
Parker Smith Jr.

'53L Bob Banse

‘M4 Wiley Wright Jr.,
Bob Cross

‘S4L Don Klenk

‘SS Buddy Somerville Jr.

‘SSL Jay Jackson

‘56 Marv Moreland Jr.

‘S6L Reno Harp III

'S7 Dick Laskey

‘SIL Opie Pollard

‘38 Howard Packett

‘S8L Mark Davis

‘39 Ted McKeldin Sri,
David Meese

SOL Bill Lemon

60 Dave Weaver

‘OL Bill Crowell Jr.

61 Bill Bowen.

Bill Johnston

SIL Michael Masinter

62 Jack Vardaman Jr.

62L, Ray Robrecht

. Thomas Moore Jr.

4 Don McFall

Pete Straub
Skip Chase

Donors

2
36
1
21
l
15
1
11
3
26
4
29
6
17
3
33
2
37
2
35
5
41
11
61
3
42
4
44
5
66
62
30

Dollars
$200
9,200
200
12,298
200
3,925
4,000
985
350
11,370
475
6,810
625
3,002
1,200
9,540
300
15,825
600
34,224
2,125
32,480
2,785
55,786
300
17,867
12,447
18,161
2,450
20,775
25,602
17,535
11,793
5,230
7,790
13,650
20,733
3,285
49,787
8,035
61,219
7,975
34,252
10,585

55,474
6,813

33,160
950
36,350
1,500
13,262
3,275
24,918
9,928
38,073
9,050

58,324
6,350
34,667
2,625

24,648
4,100
45,293
5,500
27,363
3,000
37,838
3,400
28,054

Participation (%)
22.2
26.1
12.5
40.4
33.3
28.3
14.3
24.4
27.3
39.4
66.7
46.0
75.0
27.9
30.0
41.3
40.0
39.4
25.0
36.5
45.5
32.5
50.0
54.0
25.0
31.6
40.0
33.3

Goal (%)
13.3
46.0
20.0

123.0

200.0

65.4
160.0
49.3
35.0
133.8
95.0
68.1
41.7
75.1
70.6
83.0
150.0
131.9
17.1
114.1
193.2
81.2
79.6
94.6
100.0
71.5
113.2
90.8
122.5
78.4
116.4

Class/Agent

65L Leyburn Mosby Jr.
66 Jack Baber III
66L Henry Counts Jr.
67 Jay Turner Jr.
’67L Bob Powell III
68 Joe Matthews Jr.
*68L Alling Jones

69 Phil Norwood
*69L Dave Redmond
°70 Dean Kumpuris
*70L Ed Crosland Jr.
°71 Drake Leddy
°71L Rob Hartmann
°72 Bruce Wilsie Jr.
°72L Steve Annand
°73 Meade Kampfmueller
°73L Greg Digel

°74 Jim Farrar Jr.

°74L Steve Elkins

°75 Guy Kerr,

Steve Van Amburgh
*75L Grady Frank Jr.
°76 John Cocklereece Jr.
*76L Pat Arey
77 Jimmy Brooks
°77L Morgan Maxwell III
°78 Peter Keefe
*78L Derek Swope
79 Steve Jones Jr.,

Jack Bovay
*79L Murph Murphy
*80 Sidney Simmons II
*80L Chris Wolf
*81 J.R. Sule
*81L Dave Weaver
82 Tripp Brower III
*82L David Black,

Lizanne Thomas
*83 Scott Bond
*83L Millard Fretland
*84 John Cleghorn,

Matt Thompson Jr.
*84L Mike Pace Jr.

85 Tad Renner III
*85L Jon Rak
’86 Randy Ellis,

Mark Slack IV
*86L Kirk Ludwig
*87 John Atkins,

Andrew Caruthers
*87L Dayton Haigney III
*88 Brad Watkins,

Garth Schulz
*88L Powell Starks
*89 Elizabeth Cummins,

Fray McCormick
*89L Al Ragan
90 Brooks Pettus,

Dallas Hagewood
*90L John Falk,

Tim Hodge
"91 Stephen White,

Chad Meyer
"91L Vaughan Gibson
92 Garnett Wilbourn,

Read Folline
"92L Molly Ziebold
93 Josh Levinson,

Annie Salisbury
°93L Chris Lawson,

Walter Godlewski

114

117
20
104
13

108
18

100
15

124
14

147
12

192

178

11

266

45

Dollars
$1,955
15,742

4,400
20,066
5,995
46,614
3,725
56,510
4,775
41,832
8,125
44,605
6,660
49,073
5,775
32,172
9,519
37,863
14,790

37,562
11,890
32,485
7,050
33,075
5,525
21,272
3,550

25,285
9,990
25,370
7,325
24,568
7,735
21,166

3,485
15,898
3,288
21,356
3,315
14,765
3,490

10,935
1,438

11,354
985

8,660
1,640

10,304
1,465

7,635
1,110

8,701
1,575

6,585
555

6,167

1,625

Participation (%)
30.0
32.1
27.9
35.1
32.6
35.3
29.0
35.9
34.3
27.3
28.3
32.9
22.8
24.2
22.4
23.3
37.5
29.7
25.9

36.5
35.4
28.7
27.0
29.1
23.7
23.1
18.3

31.0
26.1
34.4
20.0
39.0
26.3
32.8

25.0
30.3
16.0
36.3
19.1
30.9
10.7

34.5
15.3

29.2
13.0

34.5
11.7

37.3
10.3

38.7
16.5

43.4
8.1

43.0
8.7

62.0

31.0

(Figures as of March 15, 1994.)

Goal (%)
72.4
65.6
97.8
91.2
36.3
77.7
82.8
94.2
95.5
72.6

162.5
92.9
100.9

97.6

87.8
95.3
100.2
76.7
70.9
84.5

105.4
87.6
110.3
112.7
111.7
84.1
84.7
68.3
106.0
71.2

118.1
99.7

109.4
49.6

108.1
Sue

82.5
68.3

103.0
66.6

117.5
50.5

124.3
63.0

109.7
on

123.3

108.3

37

Class Notes

’

oy
Dr. Alexander 8. Moffett
is retired and living in Grinnell,
lowa. He says that he is glad to be
living in a college town and keeps
busy reading and writing poetry.
Moffett and his wife of 60 years,
Virginia, are thankful to be living in
the same town as their son, Sandy,

who teaches theater at Grinnell
College.

C.W. Clark Poole

writes that the real news is that he is
still active at almost 88. He lives in
St. Leonard, Md., with his wife of
51 years and enjoys gardening, tak-
ing short trips and reading.

Dr. Burchard §. Pruett

is enjoying the blue skies and sun-
shine of Prescott, Ariz., where he
moved in 1991.

“7

William G. Sargent

lives in Flushing, N.Y., and says that
his age is starting to catch up with
him. He enjoys visits from his fami-
ly and has 26 great grandchildren!

’

30
The Hon. Robert E. Clapp Jr.
is enjoying his retirement from his
position as a Maryland Circuit Court
Judge. He is now serving as “of
counsel” to son James’ (Class of ’73)
law firm and says, “it’s easier than
working.” He lives in Frederick.

Dr. Idus D. Felder Jr.
recently moved to a retirement com-
munity in Valdosta, Ga.

oa

Dr. John H. Thomas Jr.
writes that he has enjoyed visiting
the campus this year. He lives in
Greenville, Va.

’

aa
Charles E. Duncan
lives in Vero Beach, Fla., and
reports that he is still playing some
golf although he has been in poor
health.

William R. Howell

writes that his memories often take
him back to the days when he was
captain of the golf team and Cy
Twombly was the coach. Now,
Howell lives in Gulfport, Miss., and
says he still enjoys playing golf
about twice a week.

James §. Pollak

of Sherman Oaks, Calif., reports that
he is working on publishing 7he
Jubilant Delinquent, an anecdotal
memoir about his life, including a
chapter about his days at W&L.

J. Bernard Spector

lives in Miami Beach, Fla., and says
he is glad to be “still hanging in
there.”

Ja
Edwin W. Chittum

recently moved to a cottage on the
Outer Banks of North Carolina.

John N. Hoffman

is recovering in a nursing home in
Salisbury, Conn., after suffering a
stroke in September 1992. Although
progress seems slow at times, Hoff-
man writes that he is hopeful and
that he’s receiving excellent care.

SSL

Alfred R. Jones

of Seminole, Fla., and his wife,
Ruth, celebrated their 54th wedding
anniversary last November.

’
34
Dr. Milton L. Harris
is retired and divides his time

between Baton Rouge, La., and
Perdido Key, Fla.

Joseph C. Muller

has been retired for 17 years after
working for DuPont in Wilmington,
Del., for 42 years. He received his
master’s degree in physical chem-
istry in 1940 from Rutgers Univer-
sity and completed his doctoral
work in 1942. He now spends most
of his time playing golf at the
Delray Dunes Golf and Country
Club in Boynton Beach, Fla.

Foster McCrum Palmer

traveled extensively this past year,
visiting Lexington twice as well as
Texas, Pennsylvania, New York,
Ohio, Montana, British Columbia,
and Nova Scotia. He has been living
in Watertown, Mass., for 40 years.

Dr. George W. Price

and his wife, Gretchen, moved back
to Spartanburg, S.C., after 17 years
in Hendersonville, N.C. He is in the
Health Center, and says the care is
excellent, and Gretchen has an
apartment there.

’

35
Dr. Sidney Lyons
has been retired from his family
practice for 14 years. He has one
son, three daughters, four grandsons
and two granddaughters. Lyons
lives in Arlington, Va., and enjoys
biking, walking, and volunteering.

Gilbert R. Swink Jr.

is a retired U.S. magistrate living in
Norfolk, Va. Swink reports that he
recently heard from classmate and
fellow DU, James Franklin.

’
36

A. Lee Reeser

is semi-retired after 34 years as a

manufacturer’s representative sell-

ing food services equipment and

supplies in five mid-Atlantic states.

He lives in Berwyn, Pa.

’
37
William D. Fishback
is still farming and raising Angus
cattle and thoroughbred horses in
Versailles, Ky. He was widowed in
1983 and remarried in 1985. With
his four granddaughters and his
wife’s seven grandchildren, all
under 21 years of age, things get
pretty lively at family gatherings!

’
3S

Seth N. Baker

writes that he is “getting younger

every day,” as confirmed by the let-

ter he recently received from Sen.

Bill Bradley (N.J.) congratulating

him on achieving the rank of Eagle

Scout—Baker writes, “I always was

a slow learner and a late bloomer!”
He lives in Chatham, N.]J.

N. Christian Nielsen

reports that he and his wife, Martha,
thoroughly enjoyed meeting his
classmates at their 55th reunion at
Homecoming and they can’t wait for
the next one. He writes, “Our alliga-
tor teeth may be worn down, but our
tail is strong!”

E. Alton Sartor Jr.

and his wife, Jean, attended Alumni
College in July 1993 and then took
the Classical Greece trip in Septem-
ber. Just five days after their return
from Greece, the Sartors celebrated
the 55th reunion of the Class of °38
at Homecoming in Lexington. They
live in Shreveport, La.

Col. John H. Shoaf

spent a month last summer in
Ecuador as a Rotarian volunteer
under the auspices of the Inter-
national Executive Services Corps.
He lives in The Woodlands, ‘Texas.

’

39
George C. Kerr
and his wife, Florence, recently cel-
ebrated their 53rd wedding anniver-
sary and are enjoying living ina
large life care facility in the Amish
country of Pennsylvania. He serves
on the Residents Council and is
president of the Golf Club. He is
still an elder at First Presbyterian

  
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  

Church in Lancaster and is in cha
of the stewardship committee.
couple spends eight weeks ever,
winter on Hilton Head, S.C., p}.
ing golf and visiting with old
and business associates,

SIL

William D. Fishback
See °37.

Fred G. Francis

lives in Sarasota, Fla., and has
retired from his law practice. He _
keeps busy with his office as the _
international secretary for the .
Society.

Philip M. (Pete) Grabil]
is an attorney in Woodstock, Va, _

Martin V. Partenope cl
lives in Sparks, Nev., with his wife
LaVerna. |

John B. Pearson ,
passed the Virginia Bar 55 years
and has been a member of the
Connecticut Bar for more than
years. He lives in West Hartford,
Conn., and says that he still goes
the office and is active as an arbity
tor in administering Connecti
“lemon law.”

’
40
Dr. Frank S. Beaslie Jr.
notes that he is a member of two
year societies, the Medical Socie
of Virginia and the University of -
Virginia Medical Society, simply
virtue of surviving. He works with
the Newport News Library Board
and says he remains well and activ

The Hon. George M. Foote
reports that his granddaughter,
Allison, is a member of the Class ¢
’97, and that he plans to attend mt
Homecomings now. Foote lives in
Alexandria, La.

John W. Johnston 4
spends eight months of the year a
his 350-acre farm located ten mile
southwest of Lexington and the
remainder of the year at his tc
house in Richmond.

Homer D. Jones Jr.
and his wife, Helen, were honore
with a scholarship in their names
more than 30 years of service to —
Warren Wilson College. They li

in Princeton, N.J. 1

Lorenzo C. (Lew) Lewis
is semi-retired, but still working
part-time as a consulting forestet.
He lives in Lincoln, Va. ;

’

FOL 7
J.N. (Newt) Harman ul
reports that his trout fishing 1S

ag

+"

-

. ing 11 rainbows
; ying, catching
i ics on a late October trip. He

lives in Welch, W.Va.

41
‘liam Avent
Died and living in Jacksonville,
Fla. He went co the Ryder Cup
matches in England last September.
After the golf was over, he toured
York, Cambridge, Canterbury and
the Rye-Hastings area.

; Jr.
dward E. Hunter
ae in West Jefferson, N.C. He
writes that his grandson, Zachary
Harrison Hunter, was born last July.

AG. Street
ed as a pilot in the U.S. Army
Air Corps during World War II and
then went on to the University of
Texas Law School, graduating in
1947. He has been practicing law in
San Antonio since then. Street and
his wife of 51 years, Jeanette, have
two daughters and four grandchil-
dren, all living in San Antonio.

421,

The Hon. George M. Foote
See *40.

’
43
Lawrence W. Galloway
is planning his second trip around

the world as an evangelist. He lives
in Baltimore.

Dr. R. Francis Johnson

reports that as a relatively new resi-
dent of Hilton Head Island, he
chuckled to see a license plate ona
car in the lane next to his at a stop
light that read, “W&L HHI.”

John N. Peeples

is an attorney in Valdosta, Ga. He
addressed the local chapter of the
Daughters of the Confederacy in
Valdosta last fall, speaking about
Stonewall Jackson. Peeples says that
he became interested in Jackson
during his sophomore year at W&L
when he rented a room in the Lee-
Jackson house on campus.

’
44 (REUNION)

Thomas D. Crittenden

lives in Virginia Beach and contin-

Ues to sit as an arbitrator in disputes
‘tween insurance companies and

feinsurance companies.

Dr. Charles J. Devine Jr.
received the American Urological
lation’s Distinguished
ntribution Award last May at the
4sOciation’s national conference in
tonio. He was the founder
first President of the Association
€nitourinary Reconstructive

Surgeons and currently serves as
medical director of the Devine
Center for Genitourinary Recon-
structive Surgery at Sentara Norfolk
General Hospital. Devine lives in
Norfolk, Va.

David R. Embry

is looking forward to the big 50th
Reunion in May. He lives in
Seabrook, ‘Texas.

G. Edward Heinecke

is semi-retired, but continues to do
consulting work in advertising and
marketing. He also keeps busy with
volunteer work, serving as president
of the Second Harvester Food Bank
of Wisconsin and working with the
Salvation Army Advisory Board. He
lives in Mequon, Wis.

John C. Hempel Jr.

lives in Bradenton, Fla. He is a vol-
unteer in the emergency room at
L.W. Blake Hospital and is also a
past president of the Hospital
Auxiliary. He is on the board of
directors for Southeastern Guide
Dogs and is a retired licensed real
estate agent in the state of Florida.

LTC Charles B. Jackson

is a retired educator living in Alton,
Ill. He reports that he recently had
lunch with classmate, Ed Withrow.

Dr. Haven W. Mankin

is completely retired from the prac-
tice of radiology. He lives in Okla-
homa City, Okla., and spends his
free time painting with watercolors.

John N. McCormick

reports that his son and daughter-in-
law just had a daughter whom
McCormick baptized in November.
His oldest daughter has a daughter
who gave birth to a daughter three
years ago. That makes the new baby
an aunt to a niece who is three years
older than she is! Confused?
McCormick lives in Orlean, Va.

"45

The Hon. Elliot 8. Schewel

is in his 19th year as a Virginia state
senator. He serves as chairman of
the Senate Education and Health
Committee. Schewel also serves on
the finance, commerce and labor,
general laws and rules committees.
He lives in Lynchburg.

’
46
L. Rex Criminale
retired in June 1992 from his posi-
tion as professor of Romance
Languages at Elmira College. Since
then he has traveled to Spain, Italy,
Turkey, China, and Thailand. He
also lectured on the Alumni College
trip to Copper Canyon and the Sea
of Cortez in Mexico in March 1993.
He lives in Elmira, N.Y.

 

A Wondertul Lite

One of the most delightful aspects of working for Washing-
ton and Lee as a non-alumnus has been the way in which so
many alumni, by their very nature, loan me their trust and con-
fidence long before I have a
chance to earn it. No one has
offered me more comfort and
support in this regard than
Alfred ‘T. Bishop Jr. ’41 (aka
Tom and “Junie”). He and
his wonderful wife, Helen,
have been nothing short of
an inspiration.

I first met Junie through
his service as fund-raising
chairman for the Class of
1941’s 50th-reunion project,
which established an endow-
ment to benefit the Leyburn Library. At our initial committee
meeting, the subdued yet forceful quality of his personality
was evident, as was the charm with which he worked to engage
the time and talent of the others assembled. The success of
this endeavor was presaged by his life-long service to the
University in his native Louisville and through his ongoing
financial support of W&L through the Annual Fund.

Junie began his professional work life as a factory sales rep-
resentative for Armstrong Cork Co. in Lancaster, Pa., in a set-
ting much akin to a college dormitory—I have reveled in the
hilarious stories of his days there. He returned to Louisville
and with his father developed the Monarch Equipment Co.
into a very successful enterprise, and his volunteer efforts were
very much in demand. In the midst of what the Bishops avidly
describe as a wonderful life, they raised two sons, Lee and Bill,
and divide their time these days between Hilton Head Island
and Grandfather Mountain, N.C. They can be difficult to reach
by phone since they are always on the golf course!

We at Washington and Lee are fortunate to claim the
Bishops as our own and to have benefited from the various
income-retained gifts they have made over the years. These
gifts also make it possible for Helen and Junie to continue to
travel and to support the other charitable causes that occupy
their hearts. They have found a way to support their interest in
conservation and nature via a planned gift that will ultimately
establish a professorship bringing a multi-disciplinary perspec-
tive to our students’ understanding of the natural environment.

It was Emerson who said, “The only gift is a portion of thy-
self.” Junie and Helen Bishop are very special to me, and they
are certainly among that august group I frequently refer to as
our “contemporary giants”—people to whom future genera-
tions of Washington and Lee students will be indebted.

Alfred T. Bishop °41: You can
call him Al, or Tom, or Junie.

David R. Long
Director of Planned and Capital Giving

48

Dr. William H. Rattner

is chief of urology at Sinai Hospital
of Detroit and an assistant professor
of urology at the Wayne State
University School of Medicine. He
lives in Bingham Farms, Mich.

"49 (REUNION)

Col. Michael J. Barrett Jr.
retired from civil service last June
after more than 40 years of military
and civil service. He lives in
Alexandria, Va.

Edward P. Berlin Jr.

recently retired after 40 years with
the daily Waynesboro News-Virginian.
He continues to write a weekly col-
umn, “Let’s Talk,” on local issues,
and the Chamber of Commerce has
voted to award a $1,000 annual
scholarship in his name.

H. Glenn Chaffer

moved to San Rafael, Calif., in
January after more than 60 years
in Connecticut.

C. Tait Trussell

of Eustis, Fla., reports that his book,
Beating the Competition, on public
relations and advertising, is in its
second printing by Madison Books.

50

Dr. John S. Chapman

belongs to a group of 18 internists in
Dubuque, Iowa. He says that he is
thinking about retiring, but still
enjoys medical practice “despite the
slings and arrows that abound.”

Arthur S. Emmons

is retired from Ashland Oil Co. and
lives in Ashland, Ky. He recently
returned from his second trip to
Africa. Emmons is a member of the
Baptist Disaster Relief Team and
has traveled to disaster sites follow-
ing hurricanes and tornadoes, offer-
ing assistance to the victims.

John F. Hardesty

moved to Ashland, Ore., and is
opening a contemporary print
gallery there.

Richard E. Hodges

was recently elected to the College
of Fellows of the Public Relations
Society of America, capping off
more than 45 years as a newspaper
reporter, public relations writer and
advertising and public relations
agency executive. He is now semi-
retired and working as senior coun-
sel with Knapp Inc. in Atlanta. He
lives in Marietta, Ga.

Lawrence E. Jarchow

was elected president of the Three
Lakes (Wisconsin) Rod and Gun
Club. He lives in Chicago.

Dr. Robert S. Mendelsohn

of St. Louis, Mo., writes that he is
still busy in the private practice of
internal medicine and hematology.
He and his wife enjoy spending
time with their eight grandchildren.

C. William Pacy

is executive director of the Building
Congress of Baltimore and the Con-
struction Industry Educational
Foundation. He sails from Maryland
to Maine every summer with his
wife, Brooke.

Dr. Frank M. Scarlett Jr.

is living in the northern California
Presbyterian Homes’ Western Park
Apartments in San Francisco.

Jules R. Shaivitz

of Baltimore retired from the retail
furniture business two years ago and
is working on new careers as a por-
trait artist and a writer.

Dr. Howard L. Steele

of Fairfax, Va., headed the U.S. del-
egation to the Economic Commis-
sion for Europe Agricultural meet-
ings in March, the Inter-American
Institute for Cooperation on
Agriculture Executive Committee
in June, and was a member of the
U.S. delegation to the Inter-
American Board for Agriculture in
September. He continues to serve
on the house corporation board for
W&L’s Sigma Nu chapter.

50L

Thomas D. Crittenden
See °44.

‘51

James F. Gallivan

was named to the 1993 Broker Hall
of Fame by Research magazine. He
has been with the Nashville office
of J.C. Bradford & Co. since 1965,
where he is now a partner. He was
one of only five brokers nationwide
to be selected for the honor by a
panel of experts. Gallivan lives in
Nashville and is a member of
W&L’s Board of Trustees.

Dr. B. Voss Neal

retired from his dermatology prac-
tice in December and is looking for-
ward to spending his time reading,
traveling and gardening. He lives in
Newport News, Va.

ie

Col. Michael J. Barrett Jr.
See °49.

’

52
Dr. Robert A. Maslansky
writes, “Having spent the better

part of 30 years treating drug and
alcohol addicted patients, | now

spend a portion of my time petition-
ing for saner laws governing drugs,
their manufacture, sale and use.”
He lives in New York City.

Rev. Robert D. Schenkel Jr.
and his family live in Bethlehem,
Pa. Schenkel had a busy year in
1993, becoming a grandfather for
the first time and visiting Russia
twice and Ireland once as a repre-
sentative of his parish in Bethlehem.

Thomas R. Warfield

celebrated the fourth anniversary of
the founding of his investment man-
agement/brokerage firm, Warfield
Associates in New York City in
January.

Bb

S. Maynard Turk
is retired and living in Greenville,
Del.

ft

Jay W. Jackson

is a partner in the Hartford (Conn.)
law firm of Jackson, O’Keefe and
Dunn. He lives in West Hartford.

Thomas B. Perkins

and his wife, Carolyn, live in Boise,
Idaho. He reports that they travel a
good deal and that he is completing
a master’s in history. Perkins also
works with Small Business Admin-
istration with SCORE. He is current-
ly chairman of the local chapter of
SCORE in Boise.

54 (REUNION)

James D. Bonebrake

and his wife, Sally, live in Moreland
Hills, Ohio. They are looking for-
ward to attending his 40th reunion
in May.

Robert D. Dixon

is a real estate developer in
Hinsdale, Ill. He has two sons in the
business and four grandchildren.

Robert McGeehan

has been appointed assistant direc-
tor of the Institute of United States
Studies at the University of London.
He remains chairman of the
Committee to Select American
Scholars of the USUK Fulbright
Commission, and lives in Oxforshire
with his wife, Hanneke, and their
two Cats.

55

Pegram Harrison
is happily retired and expects to
receive his master’s degree from
Dartmouth in June.

Dace W. Jones Jr.
was named Senior Healthcare
Executive of the Year for South

  
     
   
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
    
 
  
 
   

Carolina by the American College
Healthcare Executives. He has bee
president of Springs Memorial __
Hospital in Lancaster, S.C., for the
past 28 years.

Dr. Harry G. Kennedy Jr. |
lives in Fairmont, W.Va., where he
is a practicing radiologist. He has
retirement home in Vero Beach, _
Fla., where he plans to settle in q _
few years and join his Sigma Chi
brothers and classmates, Ted
Chenault and Joseph K. Banks.
Chenault is a senior trust officer
Beach Bank and Banks is retired —
and spends half the year in Floric
and the rest in Dorset, Vt.

The Hon. Laurence Levitan —
is still in the Maryland State Senar
and is the chair of the Budget and

Taxation Committee and the 3
Southern Legislative Conference —
Fiscal Affairs Committee. He alse
practices law with Baker and
Hostetler. Levitan lives in Potom:

E. Stuart Quarngesser
of Baltimore is the proud grand-
father of Sarah Ann Gleberman.

Dr. O. Bertrand Ramsay
received U.S. Patent No. 5,265,02'
for his chemical calculator. He liy

in Ypsilanti, Mich. |

So

Jay W. Jackson
See °53.

Walter J. McGraw
has retired from practicing law wi
Williams, Mullen, Christian &
Dobbins in Richmond and is now
able to spend a considerable ame
of time boating, fishing and loafir
around at his home on the
Carrotoman River.

’
56

William C. Norman Jr.
is chairman of the state advisory —
board of the Arkansas Repertory
Theater, the state’s regional prote
sional theater. His son, Allen (Ax),
graduated in 1992. Norman lives!
Crossett.

‘S6L

Thomas W. Turner
retired last July after 34 years with
Piedmont Trust Bank in Martins-
ville, Va. He is now living at Smi
Mountain Lake in Penhook.

oF

John M. Ham 4
and his wife, Elizabeth, moved ©
Raleigh, N.C., in June. He is tea
ing political science and econom
at St. Mary’s College.

 

—

sebrook

op Te onive producer of “The
: oe Diamonds,” a Disney Channel
that will be produced this tz

ing. He is also serving as a visit-
; v gssistant professor of screenwrit-
Ee in the graduate department of
r lish at Arizona State University.
See he isn’t teaching, Rosebrook
calls North Hollywood home.

9 5 S

oh R. Barney Jr.
voit from Fairfax County (Va.)
Public Schools and the Army
Reserve. He is now working for
ELS, a government contractor In
northern Virginia. Barney lives in

Springfield.

Edward M. (Ned) George Jr.
was appointed to the Small Bank
Advisory Council of the Federal
Reserve Bank of Cleveland last
August. In December, he was
appointed to the West Virginia
Board of Banking and Financial
Institutions by the governor. He
lives in Wheeling.

Frank M. Hoopes Jr.

was appointed director of the
Monomers, Resins and Lucites
Division of I&1I Acrylics Inc. in
Wilmington, Del. His appointment
came as a result of an asset swap
with DuPont for 1&1 European
nylon business. Hoopes lives in
Wilmington.

W. C. Miller

writes that the Collagen Corp. has
received FDA approval for two
novel collagen-based medical
devices. The U.S. Supreme Court
upheld the rulings of lower courts
based on federal pre-emption of
state negligence causes of action.
He lives in Pleasanton, Calif.

John P. Moyer

lives in Girard, Ohio. He is working
for Wheat, First/Butcher & Singer in
their Youngstown office with his

son, who is also an associate with the
company.

J. William Reid

of Richmond has just completed 32
years with NationsBank of Virginia
and its predecessors, C&S Sovran,
Sovran and First and Merchant
National Banks. He is currently
senior vice president and manager
of the financial institutions depart-
ment with responsibilities for com-
munity/bank relations in Virginia,
- Virginia, and Washington,

Rufus L. Safford

Says he loves living in Denver,

climbing 14,000-foot peaks and

rnjoying the wilderness. He saw
n Sigmund ’59 and Vernon

Holleman ‘58 in Washington, D.C.,
'N February.

Scott Whipple

hosts a weekly blues radio show and
a jazz program on WNHU (88.7 FM)
in West Haven, Conn. “Good
Morning Blues” was broadcast to
American servicemen and women
stationed in Somalia over the
Christmas holidays. Whipple also
writes blues and jazz features for the
entertainment section of the
Connecticut Post.

"59 (REUNION)

DuBose Ausley

served on the Florida Board of
Regents for 15 years, longer than
anyone else in the history of the
board, when he resigned in January.
During his tenure, Ausley was
appointed by three different Demo-
cratic governors. Ausley, an attorney
in Tallahassee, was the lawyer for
the Florida Senate’s higher educa-
tion committee when the Board of
Regents was formed in 1963.

Reginald K. Brack Jr.

was awarded the 1993 Henry
Johnson Fisher Award, the maga-
zine industry’s highest honor, by the
Magazine Publishers of America. He
is chairman and chief executive offi-
cer of Time Inc. The award honors a
magazine leader who has gained dis-
tinction through significant and
long-standing contributions to the
publishing business. Brack lives in
Greenwich, Conn.

John H. Esperian

will present a paper on the “flip
side” of Las Vegas titled “Beyond
the Neon” at this year’s convention
of the Popular Culture Association
in Chicago in April. He was present-
ing a paper on Ray Bradbury at last
year’s convention, when he was rec-
ognized by Marshal Fishwick, his
sociology professor at W&L.
Esperian lives in Las Vegas.

Dr. Thomas P. Foley

of Pittsburgh is president-elect of
the Lawson Wilkins Pediatric
Endocrine Society. He is working
with Olga Korbut to raise funds and
build a much-needed University
Children’s Medical Center in
Minsk, Belarus. Korbut, who won
four gold medals in gymnastics for
the former Soviet Union, has devot-
ed her life to helping the children
from her native country (Republic
of Belarus) who were exposed to
heavy radiation from the Chernoby1
power plant accident in 1986.

Dr. Arthur 8. Grove Jr.

is in private practice specializing in
ophthalmic reconstructive surgery.
He is also director of the fellowship
program at the Massachusetts Eye
and Ear Infirmary/Beth Israel
Hospitals in Boston. Grove lives in
Cambridge.

John D. Hattendorf

was promoted to vice president of
R.T. Vanderbilt Co.’s petroleum
department. He lives in Trumbull,
Conn., and writes that he is looking
forward to seeing many classmates
at his 35th reunion in May.

Bertrand R. Hudnall ll

lives in Lynchburg, Va. As of June
1993, he has become an indepen-
dent educational consultant, work-
ing with families to find colleges
and prep schools compatible with
their children’s goals and abilities.
He has also signed on to work with a
placement agency in Dallas and a
marketing firm in Richmond, both
education-oriented in their services.

Robert R. Kane

is development director with the
General Services Administration
responsible for the development of
the Southeast Federal Center, a 55-
acre site on the Anacosta River one
mile from the U.S. Capitol in
Washington, D.C. It is being devel-
oped as an office and retail complex
to house 23,000 federal employees
in 5.6 million feet of space. Kane
and his wife, Sloan, spend week-
ends at their soon-to-be retirement
home in Lottsburg, Va., sailing the
waters of the lower Potomac River
and the Chesapeake Bay.

Evan J. Kemp Jr.

has a marketing and public affairs
consulting firm in Washington, D.C.
The firm is dedicated to helping
empower persons with disabilities
and to designing marketplace strate-
gies and public policy responses to
support this unique population.

Theodore R. McKeldin Jr.

says that he “greatly enjoyed” serv-
ing as co-class agent with David
Meese. This is Meese’s last year in
the position, so McKeldin is looking
for a new co-agent for 1994-95. Any
takers? McKeldin lives in Baltimore.

The Hon. John C. Morrison Jr.
was recently elected chief judge of
the 4th Judicial Circuit of Virginia.
He has been a circuit judge since
1988. Morrison lives in Norfolk.

Dr. Edward M. Reaves

lives in Memphis, Tenn., where he
practices cardiology and internal
medicine. He is the managing part-
ner of a three-man group. Reaves
has three children, Ned, Ali, and
Avery.

Raymond R. Robrecht

has been a practicing attorney in
Salem, Va., since 1968. He served as
the Roanoke County prosecutor
from 1968 to 1971 and in the
Virginia House of Delegates from
1972 to 1982.

Robert E. Shepherd Jr.
is currently serving on the executive
committee of the Virginia Bar

Association as the initial occupant of
a newly created law educator posi-
tion. He is also a professor at T.C.
Williams School of Law at the
University of Richmond.

Laurence M. Smail

was elected chairman of the legal
issues committee of the Federal
Laboratory Consortium for
Technology Transfer. He is also
counsel for the U.S. Army Aviation
Applied Technology Directorate in
Fort Eustis, Va. Smail lives in
Newport News.

Murray M. Wadsworth

is president of the law firm of
Wadsworth and Davis in
Tallahassee, Fla.

’
60
The Rt. Rev. Peter J. Lee,
bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of
Virginia, was elected chairman of
the board of trustees of the Virginia
Theological Seminary in Alexandria.
He lives in Richmond.

John R. Pleasant Jr.

has taught English at Southeastern
Louisiana University for 28 years.
He has served on the faculty senate
for the past five years and is current-
ly on the athletic and Hall of Fame
committees. He lives in Hammond.

A. Prescott Rowe

was tapped for induction into the
Virginia Commonwealth Univer-
sity’s School of Mass Communi-
cations Hall of Fame. He is vice
president of corporate communica-
tions with Ethyl Corp. and lives in
Richmond.

’
61

Dr. Firth S. Spiegel

writes that he enjoys living in the

Upper Cumberlands and expects his

new house to be completed soon.

He invites any old friends passing

through the area to stop by fora

visit. He lives in Livingston, Tenn.

Dr. Charles S. Wassum III

is now on the full-time field staff of
the John Birch Society, working on
an education program to decrease
taxes through decreasing the size of
all governments: federal, state and
local. He lives in Springfield, Va.

61L

W.C. Miller
See ’58.

The Hon. John C. Morrison Jr.
See °59.

Robert E. Shepherd Jr.
See ’59.

41

’

62
Ronald H. Alenstein
is an attorney with the New York
law firm of D’Amato and Lynch. He
specializes in the defense of
lawyers’ and accountants’ malprac-
tice claims and in litigation concern-
ing directors’ and officers’ insur-
ance, and brokers’ and bankers’
blanket bonds. He lives in Briarcliff
Manor, N.Y.

Harry G. Ballance Jr.

is an L-1011 captain with Delta
Airlines. He is based out of Atlanta
and flies Delta’s trans-Atlantic
flights to Europe.

Thompson W. Goodwin

lost his job as executive vice presi-
dent of Dominion Bankshares after
over 29 years with the company
when it merged with First Union.
The very next day, he started
Goodwin and Co., a general and
electrical contractor in Roanoke. He
is also involved in developing nurs-
ing homes in the southeast.

Ralph O. Harvey Ill

is a director of the National Grain
and Feed Association and was invit-
ed to several cities in Mexico last
fall as part of a trade delegation
investigating NAFTA opportunities.
He lives in Wichita Falls, Texas.

James A. Russ

and his wife, Rita, live in
Stevensville, Md., on the Eastern
Shore. Russ is the president of
Bardon Inc. in Greenbelt, Md., a
quarry stone, sand gravel and ready-
mixed concrete group of companies
supplying Maryland, D.C., Virginia
and West Virginia markets.

Harry Teter Jr.

is “working hard” in Washington,
D.C. The attorney with O’Brian,
Butler and Birney also serves as
director of the American ‘Trauma
Society and as general manager of
the National Theater.

62L

Raymond R. Robrecht
See ’59.

Laurence M. Smail
See °59.

’

63
William H. Candler
was the editor of PortFolio, a weekly
arts and entertainment publication
for Hampton Roads, Va. Last July,
he took a 10-day hiking trip to
Glacier National Park and the
Canadian Rockies and returned to
start a new job as director of com-
munications at Tidewater Commu-
nity College. He lives in Virginia
Beach.

Robert D. Hart Jr.

of Pensacola, Fla., reports that his
oldest son, Daniel, graduated last
June with the Class of 1993, and his
younger son, Douglas, entered
W&L in the fall as a member of the
Class of 1997.

J. Holmes Morrison

is chairman-elect of the West
Virginia Roundtable, an organization
of CEOs working to promote eco-
nomic development in the state. He
lives in Charleston.

H. Michael Walker

is still working in commercial real
estate consulting with Guest
Quarters Hotels and GMK Interests
in Norfolk, Va. He and his wife,
Carole, live in Virginia Beach.

64 (REUNION)

Louis V. Flanagan Jr.

retired from coaching in 1978 and
opened Dew Real Estate in
Ashland, Va. They now have a sec-
ond office in Bowling Green where
his wife, Joanne, is the broker. The
couple’s oldest son, Trey, graduated
from William & Mary last year and
their daughter, Katie, will graduate
from Meredith College this spring.
Their youngest son, Bob, plans to
attend either William & Mary or
W&L next year. The family lives in
Ashland.

Dr. Bill H. Kinsey Jr.

was recently appointed a senior
associate member of St. Anthony’s
College and the Center of African
Economics at Oxford University. He
holds a joint appointment as senior
research associate at the University
of Zimbabwe. Over the next two
years, Kinsey will travel between
the U.K. and Zimbabwe to continue
a longitudinal study of 400 families
begun in 1982.

The Rev. Kenneth P. Lane Jr.
is a minister at Trinity Lutheran
Church in Roanoke. He lives in
Roanoke with his wife, Deborah,
and their children, Kevin and
Christina. Lane is president of the
Roanoke Area Ministries.

Jack C. Martin

and his wife have visited Great
Britain, Belgium, Holland, Austria,
Switzerland, Germany, Italy, and
France since his retirement and
hope to see Greece and Turkey in
the future. The Martins live in
Louisville, Ky., and would love to
hear from any of Jack’s classmates.

Floyd W. (Wink) McKinnon
reports that his son, Robert, is a
freshman at W&L. McKinnon lives
in Scarsdale, N.Y.

Charles C. (Chick) Owens

of Baltimore reports that his son,
Charles Jr., is a member of the Class
of 1997.

Tain P. Tompkins

is serving as charge d’affaires at the
U.S. Embassy in Barbados. He and
his wife, Grace, and their daughters,
Ann and Heather, are “tanned and
ready for the reunion!”

The Hon. Jerome Turner
received the 1993 Charles Rond
Outstanding Jurist Award from the
Memphis Bar Association. He is a
Federal District Court Judge in
Memphis and was appointed to the
bench by President Reagan in 1988.

Rex H. Wooldridge

has been reliving his W&L days
through his daughter, Christi, who is
enjoying her freshman year. He is in
his 16th year with Kendall/Heaton
Architects in Houston where he is a
principal in the firm and currently
managing the production work on
Wachovia’s new corporate head-
quarters in Winston-Salem, N.C.

Jack Yarbrough

was named chief operating officer of
Pharmacy Gold last September. Son
Jay, a 1990 cum Jaude graduate of
Amherst, began work toward his
MBA at Wharton last September,
and son Andrew will graduate from
SMU this May. Yarbrough and his
wife, Linda, live in Minneapolis
with their three-and-a-half-year-old
daughter, Auna, whom they adopted
from Romania in 1990.

641, (REUNION)

1. Lionel Hancock Ill

and his wife, Carole Lee, live in
Norfolk, Va., where he is a substi-
tute judge for the Norfolk General
District Courts and she teaches
kindergarten at St. John’s Lutheran
School. Their oldest daughter,
Kimberlee, is a captain in the Army
Nurse Corps stationed in Fort
Eustis, Va. Allison, their youngest
daughter, left the nest this year and
is working hard as a resident coun-
selor for Portsmouth Psychiatric.

’

65
Dr. Brooks G. Brown Ill
lives in Bethesda, Md., and practices
ophthalmology in Chevy Chase. His
oldest daughter, Lise, is a junior at
W&L and another daughter, Anne-
Lamar, was accepted Early Decision
to be a member of the Class of °98.
He also has a son who is a freshman
at the University of North Carolina
and another son and daughter at
home.

Alfred J.T. Byrne

is a partner in the Washington
(D.C.) law firm of Patton, Boggs and
Blow. He had served as FDIC gener-
al counsel for three years.

Robert C. DeVaney
has lived in Bombay, India, with his

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
  

wife, Sita, and their three daughte
since 1989. He manages two off-
shore drilling rigs for Arethusa
OffShore Co. of Houston.

Dr. L. Shannon Jung
recently published We Are Home: A
Spirituality of the Environment. He;
the director of the Center for
Theology and the Land, sponsore,
by the University of Dubuque and
Wartburg Seminaries in Dubuque,
lowa.

Michael J. Michaeles ‘
spent a week skiing in Jackson
Hole, Wyo., in January with Bruce —
Jackson 65, ’68L and Greg Sh;
’65. He lives in Boylston, Mass,

J. Malcolm Morris
spent three weeks in Namibia andi
Zimbabwe last summer with his _
wife, Mary, and their two sons,
David and Michael. It was the 30¢
anniversary of the summer he spen
in East Africa in 1963. Morris live
in Manhattan and serves as vice
president and general counsel to —
Ziff Communications, a publisher o
computer magazines and informa-_
tion services.

Sam P. Simpson IV
lives in San Antonio, Texas, and —
represents U.S. consumer product
firms in Mexico and Mexican firm
in the United States.

Joseph G. Wheeler

writes that his company, Yale
Carolinas, has expanded with the
purchase of Yale dealers in
Chattanooga and Birmingham.
lives in Charlotte where his wife, —
Lynn, was recently elected to her |
third term as their at-large City
Council seat. Their daughter, L
attends the University of Richmon
and their son, Gray, is married and
finishing his Ph.D at Princeton. —

65L

Stephen L. Willson

reports that his eldest daughter,
Lauren, was accepted Early
Decision to be a member of the
Class of 98. They live in Roanoke

’
66

Dr. David E. Fleischer

is president of the American Socie
for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy, ©
of three major digestive disease
societies. He represented the grot
at a world conference in Barcelomty
last summer and will also represe
them in Japan this spring. Fleische
lives in Washington, D.C. i

Michael E. Lawrence

is chief financial officer of the Sea”
Pine Co. on Hilton Head Island, —
S.C. His daughter, Catherine, is a7
sophomore at W&L.

 

—

r Woodford Jr.

ne
puck Ky., took a week-long

i esoss ski trip to Whistler,
British Columbia, in western
Canada.
‘66L

tR. Baldwin
a geplewood N.J., retired as a
0

colonel in the U.S. Army Reserve
after 30 years of commissioned ser-
yice, mostly as a Judge Advocate.
He was awarded the Legion of
Merit upon his retirement.

william H. Candler

See *63.

Jeffrey G. Haverson |
e in Virginia Beach and writes
that he is “still breathing!!!”

William (Andy) Schroeder M1
is president of the alumni chapter in
New Orleans. He is an executive
vice president with Sedgewick of

New Orleans.

The Hon. Jerome Turner

See ’64.

George W. Wooten

is president of the western Virginia
chapter of the American Board of
Trial Advocates for the 1993-94
year. He lives in Roanoke.

67

Dr. William C. Davison

is a practicing neurologist in
Chicago. He is also an assistant pro-
fessor of neurology at Northwestern
University and president of the
medical staff of Resurrection
Hospital in Chicago.

William H. Jeffress Jr.

has been elected a fellow of the
American College of Trial Lawyers
and appointed chairman of the
American Bar Association’s commit-
tee on standards of criminal justice.
He lives in Washington, D.C.

Dr. John R. McGill

's president of the Maine chapter of
the American College of Surgeons
and president-elect of the Maine
Medical Association. He lives in
Bangor with his wife, Margaret.

John C.B. Smith Jr.
Was elected chairman of the board of
the Bank of Columbia (S.C.). He is a
Partner with Nexsen Pruet Jacobs &
Pollard law firm in Columbia and
‘eves on the board of ComSouth
nkShares. Smith is also vice chair-
Man of Cities in Schools and on the
boards of the Greater Columbia
amber of Commerce and
fovidence Hospital Foundation.

671

J. Holm
es
See "63,

M 0 TTiso n

’

68
M. Ray Bradford
is a founding member of the
National Network of Estate
Planning Attorneys. ‘The group has
more than 300 members across the
country. At the group’s October
meeting in Las Vegas, Bradford and
his wife, Marlo, met up with Nat
Clement ’67 and his wife, of Chapel
Hill, N.C. The Bradfords live in
Bangor, Me.

Alexander S. Jones

is host of “On the Media,” a radio
program examining both topical and
enduring issues concerning the
news media. Guests include work-
ing journalists, critics and scholars,
and among recent topics of discus-
sion have been the media’s coverage
of Haiti, the New York City mayoral
election, AIDS, and NAFTA. This is
Jones’ first venture in radio, having
worked for nine years as a press
reporter for The New York Times.

Robert H. Moll

lives in McLean, Va. Last March, he
visited the birthplace of his paternal
great grandfather in Germany and
met many relatives for the first time.
He says that it was “the adventure
of a lifetime!”

68L

Alfred J.T. Byrne
See ’65.

Michael J. Michaeles
See 65.

69 (REUNION)

William Cook

is teaching organic chemistry on an
adjunct basis in evening classes at
Wilson College for the spring 1994
term. He lives in Harrisburg, Pa.

Mark L. Favermann

and his Boston design firm,
Favermann Design, was chosen by
the Atlanta Committee for the
Olympic Games to be a part of the
team of five of the nation’s leading
design firms and one architectural
firm charged with creating the
“look” of the 1996 Centennial
Olympic Games, a theme that will
guide the design of everything from
the medals and the torch, to the
look of signage, volunteer and staff
uniforms, lighting schemes, and
even landscaping around the Games
venues. Favermann will be leading a
panel of W&L alumni who are
involved with the Olympics during
Reunion Weekend in May. He lives
in Chestnut Hill, Mass.

Philip W. Norwood

has resigned after 13 years as a part-
ner in the Tramell Crow Co. He has
assumed the position of president

and chief executive of Faison &
Associates Inc., a real estate devel-
opment and management company
active throughout the southeast and
Texas headquartered in Charlotte.

’
70
Dr. Stuart L. Porter
wrote a chapter on “Pesticide
Poisoning in Raptors” in the book
Raptor Biomedicine. He was the ses-
sion chair and speaker in the
wildlife medicine session at the
North American Veterinary Confer-
ence in Orlando, Fla., in January.
He lives in Fort Defiance, Va.

Dr. Bruce Samuels

lives in New Orleans, where he has
two offices and heads a six-physi-
cian group with specialties in gener-
al internal medicine, gastroenterolo-
gy, and rheumatology.

Alexis G. Starun Jr.

lives in Summit, N.J., and coaches a
local girls’ soccer team, the Chatham
Cougars, that won more than 200
consecutive games.

Andrew B. Thomas

reports that he is back on his bicycle
following a serious collision with a
car in 1992. His law firm merged
with Broad & Cassel, where he is a
partner in their Orlando office spe-
cializing in education and govern-
mental law.

’
71

Nelson F. Brinkerhoff

lives in East Greenwich, R.I., where

he coaches baseball and soccer and

is the chair of the East Greenwich

Rotary citrus sale.

Robert R. Jensen

directed and designed Fullerton
College’s production of The Grapes of
Wrath, which was named one of the
top 10 shows in Orange County in
1993 by The Los Angeles Times. His
production of /ndians shared the
same distinction in 1991.

Dr. Thomas E. Reynolds

is a partner in a four-man family
practice in Culpeper, Va., and is
medical director of the local hospice.
He lives in Culpeper with his wife,
Charla, and their two sons, Keith
and William.

’
12

Peter A. Converse

took over as president and chief

executive of Virginia Commerce

Bank in Arlington on Jan. 1. He

lives in Annandale.

72L

Robert P. Beakley
is a partner with the Atlantic City

(N.J.) law firm of Wallen &
Beakley. He lives in Ocean City
with his wife, Susan, and their chil-
dren, Timothy and ‘Tara.

’
73

Dr. N. Reed Finney

is an assistant professor of cardiac

and thoracic surgery at the Medical

College of Georgia. He lives in

Augusta.

William C. French

is an attorney with the law firm of
Sands, Anderson, Marks & Miller in
Richmond, where he practices busi-
ness law, estate planning and pro-
bate.

Andrew G. Hollinger

lives in Bedford, ‘Texas, where he is
a charter member of IBM’s new
general business management con-
sulting practice. He specializes in
helping regional firms construct
business and I/T strategies.

Dr. Alexander E. Moser

lives in Winston-Salem, N.C., with
his wife, Melanie, and their three
children, Ben, Rob, and Megan. He
is a dentist in private practice.

Gregory S. Thompson

of Atlanta is president of ‘THOMCO,
a wholesale insurance broker spe-
cializing in child care insurance.

74 (REUNION)

The Rev. Jack E. Altman III

is working for the Bishop of East
Carolina on special assignments,
spending weekdays surveying
estates and dodging alligators and
copperheads, spending every spare
minute on his 22-foot grady-white,
The Wicked Witch. He has been trying
to catch all the dolphin, wahoo, king
mackerel, and sailfish from the N.C.
waters and the Gulf Stream that he
can: “No blue marlins yet!” Altman
lives in Morehead City.

James C. Ferguson

is a partner in the Oklahoma City
law firm of Walker, Ferguson and
Ferguson specializing in workers
compensation defense and employ-
ment law. He lives in Edmond,
Okla., with his wife, Judy, and their
two children, Kelly and Clay.

Dr. Peter H. Jones

specializes in preventive cardiology
as an associate professor of clinical
medicine at Baylor College of
Medicine. He lives in Houston and
has two sons, Bradley and Travis.

Edwin L. McCoy

is a first-year surgical resident at
Massachusetts General Hospital in
Boston. He graduated from
Vanderbilt University School of
Medicine last May.

Low in Space

In the ethereal, anomalous sweep of zero-gravity outer
space, astronaut G. David Low ’78 discovered a sudden and
unwelcome fear of falling. The space shuttle Endeavour was
cruising in orbit on the night-
side of the earth when Low
tethered up for his first
spacewalk. In the darkness,
with the shuttle his only
frame of reference, “the sun
came up, and I looked down
at my feet, and all of a sud-
den it was like I was just
hanging on for dear life,” he
recalls. “My feet were 300
miles above the surface of
the earth.”

Low has been witness to
the heart-stopping drama of
America’s space program
since its inception. His father, the late George M. Low, served
as manager of the Apo//o missions, and later as acting adminis-
trator of NASA. Low remembers watching the Mercury and
Gemini missions on TV and discovering his calling: “If someone
had a little magic wand and said, you can do anything you want
to do, I always said I wanted to be an astronaut.”

After earning a B.S. in physics-engineering from Washington
and Lee, Low took a second bachelor’s from Cornell and a
master’s from Stanford. While working for Jet Propulsion
Laboratory in Pasadena in 1984, he was chosen to participate in
the astronaut training program.

Low flew three missions between 1990 and 1993 aboard the
shuttles Columbia, Atlantis, and Endeavour. His mission last
June included a nearly six-hour-long spacewalk to test tech-
niques that were later used by astronauts to repair the Hubble

 

G. David Low ’78 talks to
science prospects in Lee Chapel.

Space ‘Telescope.

As a member of Washington and Lee’s science support
group, Low endorses the University’s $21 million campaign to
build a new science center. “Parmly Hall looks identical to
what I left 16 years ago,” he explains. “We’re already compet-
ing for the top-notch students in every other discipline at the
University. If we want to attract more of the top-notch students
who want to study science, we ought to have better facilities.”

Low lives with his wife, JoAnn, in Houston, where he trains
other astronauts for spacewalks in preparation for the proposed
orbiting space station. He has the option of flying again, which
he recognizes as an enviable position. “I’ve had many different
moments on every single flight when I’ll just sit there quietly,
looking out the window, thinking about a lot of things—about
my place in this universe, and how I’m one of the luckiest guys
ever to live to be able to get that kind of view, and that God
has given me the opportunity, and that I’m very thankful.”

—By Mark Mattox

Martin E. Stein Jr.

is president and CEO of Regency
Realty Corp., a shopping center real
estate investment trust that recently
completed a $108 million initial
public offering. He lives in
Jacksonville, Fla.

Charles E. Taylor

left the tax law firm of Silverstein
and Mullens last year, where he had
been a partner for eight years. He
had a solo practice in Washington,
D.C., for a short time, where he con-
centrated in estate business plan-
ning and administration, and then
joined the McLean (Va.) firm of
Merrell, Ferguson and ‘Taylor.

J. Kenneth Wood

is a tax partner with KPMG Peat
Marwick in Richmond. He and his
wife, Alecia, and their daughter,
Lindsay, make their home on a thor-
oughbred horse farm in Hanover
County, Va.

741, (REUNION)

Royce G. Lookabill

is clerk of the Pulaski County (Va.)
Circuit Court. He took a two-week
mission trip to Russia, Romania, and
Hungary last August. Lookabill lives
in Draper, Va.

’

75
Gregg B. Amonette
lives in Westfield, N.J., with his
wife, Susan, and their three chil-
dren, Susan, Jake, and Margaret. He
is vice president-sales of the finan-
cial information services division of
Automatic Data Processing.

Dr. Lawrence B. Cahoon

was promoted to full professor in the
department of biological sciences at
the University of North Carolina at
Wilmington. He was elected presi-
dent of the N.C. Academy of
Science for 1994-95 and named
chairman of the N.C. Ocean
Resources Task Force.

Joseph H. Dennis

writes, “My son is taller, smarter and
better-looking than I am. I won’t
even mention my daughter, who is
almost as tall. My wife still loves me
anyway, and is still beautiful. I often
wish I lived in Lexington.” He lives
in Wilmington, Ohio.

J. William Lassetter

is living in New Haven, Conn. He is
halfway through a three-year mas-
ter’s program at the Yale School of
Architecture, focusing on housing
and urban design issues as they
impact the life of American cities.

‘Fok

M. Steven LaCroix
is senior vice president and general

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
  

counsel for Snelling and Snelling,
its international headquarters jn _
Dallas. He was recently appointeg—
chair of the corporate counsel] |
division of the American Bar

Association’s forum committee on

franchising and he serves on the _
forum’s governing committee, _
LaCroix lives in Plano, Texas.

Robert S. Stubbs Ill
is a partner in the law firm of Bank
and Stubbs in Marietta, Ga. '

’

76
Marc R. Chimes
reports that his 16-month-old |
daughter, Meryn, plans to follow he
dad into the political consulting
business. The Chimes family lives
in Silver Spring, Md.

f

2

Paul B. Cromelin Ill
is a partner with the Washington
(D.C.) law firm of Craighill, M

field, Fenwick and Cromelin. H
specializes in estate planning and —
administration. He and his wife, —
Margaret, live in Chevy Chase,

with their two children, Caroline
and Bo. Cromelin currently serve
on the boards of St. Albans School,
the Chevy Chase Club, and the ©
Columbia Hospital for Women. —

Michael B. Hubbard |
became a partner in the Chicago I.
firm of Seyfarth, Shaw, Fairweatk
and Geraldson in 1993. Hubbard
practices in the Washington (D.
office, concentrating in the areas 0
government contracts and white c
lar criminal practice. He lives in
Fairfax, Va.

Gregory J. Muldoon

is a senior vice president for
Browning-Ferris Industries. He li
in Houston with his wife, Kappa,
and their two children, Lauren
Devin.

76L

Hiram Ely Ill
lives in Prospect, Ky., with his wife
of one year, Brenda. ‘

John S. Norris Jr. !
is a partner with Norris and St. Ck
in Virginia Beach, a four-attorney
firm concentrating in commercial
and construction litigation.

Thomas Pace
lives in Sea Girt, N.J., with his wi
Loren, and their three children. 5
was recently named chief operatin
officer of a joint venture, half-¢
by Dow Jones. He has been we
for Dow Jones since 1981, working
in the legal department, then in —
management and most recently a8
executive director of information
services before his current appo™
ment.

a

7 7
niam J. Cople Ill
ined the Washington (D.C.)
ee firm of Spriggs and Hollings-
; rth as a partner. He was previous-
with the Washington office of the
ance firm of King and Spalding.
He is continuing his practice in gov-
ment contracts, construction,
Ee nescial and environmental law.
Tole lives in Alexandria, Va.

a H. Gayle V
_ in Bedford, N.Y., and is a part-
ner with Design Point Decal. He
has three daughters: ‘Tara Ashleigh,
Jessica Lynn and Melissa Nicole.

 

Craig F. Hamilton |

writes that he is still working at
AT&T Universal Card Co. and
“digging the rippin’ curls at Ponte
Vedra Beach (Calif.).”

Dr. Sinclair (Sandy) Harcus
lives in Martinsville, Va., where he
is part of a busy family practice
group. His sons, Bruce and John,
keep him busy coaching youth soc-
cer and baseball. He enjoys travel-
ing with his wife, Catherine, when
time allows.

Lt. Col. James E. Koch

was recently promoted as an engi-
neer officer in the Army. He
received his Ph.D in engineering
management from the University of
Missouri at Rolla. His dissertation
involved managing environmental
remediation risk. Koch lives in
Okmulgee, Okla.

Mark A. Krieger Ill

lives in Jacksonville, Fla., with his
wife, Ruth and their son, Drew. He
is chief operating officer of Hart
Enterprises, managing the graphics,
printing and product, and tool distri-
bution divisions.

Robert K. Lyford

and his family live in Atlanta. On a
recent vacation to Destin, Fla., his
son, Robert, 7, played his first hole
of golf while his sister, Amy, 5, tend-
ed the flag. Rumor has it that the
kids beat their dad ina putting con-
test. Lyford and his wife, Nancy,
celebrated the 10-year anniversary

of the day they met on New Year's
Eve.

David R. Meschutt

Is still Curator of art at the West
Point Museum at the U.S. Military
Academy at West Point, N.Y. He
fecently had articles published in

Winterthur Portfolio and the Journal
of Forensic Pathology.

Dr. R. Mark Payne

Sa Pediatric cardiologist at
ashington University School of

dicine in St. Louis. He and his

wi
©, Helen, have two daughters,
24 and Rebecca,

Frank K. Turner Jr.

is vice president of corporate bank-
ing with Mercantile Bank and Trust
Co. in Baltimore. He has two chil-
dren, Keech and Lili.

9
78

Jerrell M. Baird

launched Baird Information Systems
in 1992. The firm is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Mrs. Baird’s Bakeries,
the family business that was found-
ed by his great grandmother in 1908.
Baird designed software to track
individual route sales of the family
business, but has branched out to
help companies with similar needs.

Mark H. Derbyshire

was named president of the Virginia
Blue Ridge Chapter of Employee
Assistance Professional Association.
He lives in Roanoke.

Michael E. Falcone

is vice president and consulting
actuary for employee benefits with
the consulting firm of Godwins,
Booke and Dickenson. He is also
part of the firm’s national practice
council on retirement planning and
savings education. He lives in West
Chester, Pa., with his wife, Sue, and
their three children, Alyssa, Mark,
and Julia.

John S. Hudson
lives in Fairfax, Va., and works in
MCI’s Pentagon City office.

Mark A. Peterson

was honored by the Suffolk County
Bar Pro Bono Foundation for pro-
viding legal services to the county’s
indigent. He is a partner in the law
firm of Waldvogel and Peterson in
Smithtown, N.Y.

Dr. John F. Sacco

is in private practice with Oncology
Associates in Cincinnati. He is also a
clinical instructor at the University
of Cincinnati Medical Center.

79 (REUNION)

Robert L. Clement 111

lives in Charleston, S.C., with his
wife, Carol, and their children, Chip
and Coleman.

Jeffrey B. Harrison

lives in Advance, N.C., with his
wife, Peggy, and their children, Britt
and Trent. He graduated from
Wake Forest School of Law in 1989
and was elected Davie County com-
missioner in 1992. Harrison current-
ly owns and operates three business-
es in Davie and Forsyth counties.

John S. Hyslop Ill

graduated from Virginia Tech with a
Ph.D in physics in 1990. He is now
living in Gaithersburg, Md., and
working for the U.S. Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission as a risk analyst

who administers scientific programs
at the National Laboratories.

C. Stephen Jones Jr.

is vice president of human resources
at Randolph Hospital in Asheboro,
N.C.

Kevin T. McFadden

owns the Rebkee Co., a real estate
developer in Richmond. He and his
wife, Ilene, have three children,
Kevin, Maggie and Molly.

Dr. William R. Meyer

is an assistant professor and the
director of the in-vitro fertilization
program in the OB-GYN department
at the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill. He has three sons,
Ryan, Scott, and Thomas.

John H. Norberg

is president and CEO of Standard
Investment Chartered Inc., a south-
ern California investment manage-
ment and securities brokerage firm
specializing in non-reporting public
companies. He lives in Chino Hills.

Charles C. Smith III

returned from Munich, where he
worked for Radio Free Europe, and
is now the news editor for the Sz.
Joseph (Mo.) News-Press.

Gardner T. Umbarger IIl

was recently promoted to the rank
of major and is commander of
Company C (Medical) 529th
Forward Support Battalion, Virginia
National Guard. He lives in
Lynchburg with his wife, Lynne,
and their daughter, Chloe, and
teaches at the Laurel Regional
Special Education Program.

791. (REUNION)

Daniel G. Beyer

is a partner in the Detroit law firm
of Kerr, Russell and Weber. He lives
in Birmingham, Mich., with his
wife, Elaine, and their two daugh-
ters and enjoys playing tennis in his
free time.

Stetson W. (Tack) Eddy

lives in Littke Compton, R.I. He
writes, “Tell McCandless, Cosgrove
and Speidel to bring their tennis rac-
quets to our 15th reunion in May.”

Philip L. Hinerman

is a partner in the Philadelphia law
firm of Pepper, Hamilton &
Scheetz, working in the environ-
mental practice group.

Michael B. Hubbard
See °76.

;
SOU

Larry W. Fresh

lives in Goshen, Va., with his wife,

Bethany, and their daughter, Abby.

He is the owner/broker of Fresh

Estates & Country Properties Inc., a

full-service real estate firm in Hot
Springs, Va.

Maj. Gilbert H. Pearsall Jr.
graduated from the U.S. Army
Command and General Staff
College last June. He and his family
moved to Fort Drum, N.Y., and he
was deployed to Somalia, returning
to New York in March.

Dr. Michael M. Pollack
is a general surgeon in Little Rock,
Ark.

Scott A. Williams

left McKinsey & Co. in Atlanta to
become vice president of strategic
planning at USF&G Corp. in
Baltimore. Williams writes that he is
looking forward to resuming com-
petitive sailing in the Annapolis
area.

;
5]

W. Warren Crowdus Ill

of Washington, D.C., works in the

office of the international tax coun-

sel at the Treasury Department. He

deals with federal income tax provi-

sions with international aspects as

well as income tax treaties with

other countries.

Ira M. Quillen Il

is a news/sports photographer and
editor with WDBJ-TV 7, the CBS
affiliate in Roanoke. He is based at
the station’s Central Virginia bureau
in Lynchburg, and has been with
News 7 since 1991. Previously, he
ran the New River Valley bureau in
Blacksburg for WSLS-TV 10. Quillen
lives in Lynchburg.

F. Whitacre Sanning

moved to Collierville, Tenn., to
become a training supervisor with
New York Life Insurance Co. in
Memphis.

Charles J. Van Horn

is president of Olive and Van Horn,
a distributor of machine tools and
industrial supplies. He lives in New
Orleans with his wife, Kathleen, and
their two children, Katie and James.

SLL

Richard J. Eisen

is a partner in the St. Louis law firm
of Eisen, Gillespie and Hilton. He
and his wife, Marci, have three chil-
dren, Jonathan, Brett, and Abby.

Daphyne Saunders Thomas

is an associate professor at James
Madison University in Harrison-
burg, Va. She is a member of the
Commonwealth Transportation
Board and the Board of Regents and
also belongs to the Institute of
Certified Professional Managers.
She has one daughter, Rachel
Michelle Saunders Thomas.

Photos: O’Brien (Journal Messengen; Frink (P. Forden/Sygma)

Lorena and Lonya:

The W&L Connection

Lorena Bobbitt and Tonya Harding. The Knife and the Club.
What would headline writers, talk show hosts, and Hollywood agents
have done these past few months without the tabloid tawdriness of
these two women? Now, imagine what the prosecutors went through.
While assistant commonwealth’s attorney Mary Grace O’Brien ’83L

 

 

 

 

Prosecutors Frink (left) and O’Brien: Heard any good jokes lately?

was working to prosecute both Lorena and John Bobbitt in Prince
William County, Va., Norman Frink ’77L, deputy district attorney for
Multnomah County, Ore., had his hands full as chief prosecutor in
charge of the Tonya Harding case.

When the police report came in about John Bobbitt, O’Brien’s
boss, commonwealth’s attorney Paul Ebert, asked her if she wanted to
try the case with him. “If she had stabbed him in the heart, nobody
would have cared,” O’Brien says. (Of course, Lorena aimed a good bit
lower, and the word 4obitt entered the vocabulary as a verb.)

Once O’Brien and Lorena talked at length, “woman-to-woman,”
the charges against John were changed from marital rape to marital
sexual assault. Those charges limited the prosecution to go only a few
days into their marriage, and John was acquitted and free to spend his
New Year’s Eve with Howard Stern. “Any kind of felony case requires
a lot of preparation and focus,” says O’Brien, acknowledging that the
prosecution faced an “uphill battle.” (It wasn’t until Lorena’s trial for
malicious wounding in January—she was found not guilty by reason of
insanity—that other problems in the marriage became known.) “The
media inquiries didn’t distract from my focus on the case, but they
detracted from my preparation time.”

Just when it seemed that nothing short of Michael Jackson could
rival the Bobbitts’ marital saga for airtime, along came the assault on
figure skater Nancy Kerrigan and the subsequent Tonya Harding
investigation. Of the five different defendants to be tried by chief
prosecutor Norman Frink, Harding has pled guilty to conspiracy to
hinder prosecution, and husband Jeff Gillooly, to racketeering (the
bodyguard, the wheel man, and the hit man are still awaiting trial).

The high-profile cases brought both attorneys to the same conclu-
sion about media coverage—the media focus on what people are inter-
ested in—and their attention to details are not necessarily the details
that are important to the prosecutors. “It’s a revealing experience,”
says Frink, who fielded inquiries from across the United States and
abroad. “Until you get caught up with one of these media frenzies, it’s
hard to understand what they are like.” —By Evan Atkins

46

‘2

Capt. David A. Core

is chief of administrative law at the
Yongsan Law Center and command
judge advocate of the 34th Area
Support Group, U.S. Army. He and
his wife, Cynthia, live in Seoul,
Korea, and recently visited Bill
Baum °82 in Taipei, ‘Taiwan.

Dr. W. Scott Dacus

is now a partner in the Lexington
(S.C.) Family Practice, a 12-physi-
cian group of family physicians.

James E. Dunn Jr.

and his wife, Gwyn, live in
Greensboro, N.C., with their four
children. Dunn is the chairman of
Coleman Envelope and Printing.
He recently traveled to London
with classmate Mike Bernot.

David E. Jensen

lives in Reston, Va. He works for
the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. in Arlington.

821

Thomas G. Baker Jr.

was re-elected to his third term in
the Virginia House of Delegates last
November. He represents Pulaski
County, the City of Radford and a
portion of Giles County. Baker lives
in Dublin, Va.

Dana C. Petersen

was elected to the board of gover-
nors of the National Bar Association.
She is now a full partner at the law
firm of Whiteford, ‘Taylor and
Preston, and continues to practice in
the areas of product liability and
general tort litigation. She lives in
Baltimore.

;
53
James L Baldwin Jr.
was named partner of the Houston
law firm of Hutcheson and Grundy.
He has been with the firm’s Dallas
office since 1988. Baldwin concen-
trates his practice in commercial liti-
gation in both state and federal
courts, with an emphasis on finan-
cial and lending transactions.

Scott S. Bond

was inducted into the President’s
Club in 1993 at Bulkley Dunton
Paper Brokerage Co. in New York
City. President’s Club recognition
goes to the top five brokers among
the 400 in the company. Bond lives
in Westfield, N.J., with his wife,
Patty.

Lt. Cmdr. Thomas L. Egbert
was recently promoted to his pre-
sent rank in the U.S. Navy. He is
still flying the FA-18 Hornet and
reports that he flew missions over
Somalia for Operation Continue
Hope and over Iraq for Operation

 
  

Southern Watch. He is stationeq in
Jacksonville, Fla.

Fred H. Rindge V

was named deputy sports editor at
The Post and Courier of Charleston _
S.C, j

William L. Roberts III

is a staff writer at the Philadelphig
Business Journal, covering industry
and finance. He lives in downtown
Philadelphia with his wife, Janice.

Henry F. Sewell Jr.
was recently named partner in the
Atlanta law firm of Hichs, Malorf &

Campbell. He practices commereia}
litigation and bankruptcy law.

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
 

Capt. Michael S. Skardon
will complete graduate work in
National Security Affairs at the
Naval post-graduate school in

Monterey, Calif., in June. In July, |
he will begin service as the U.S,
Defense Attache in Rabat, Morocee

Reen D. Waterman Jr. 1
was named 1993 Realtor of the Ye.
for Queen Anne’s County, Md. He
also served as president of the 196
93 Board of Realtors for the county.
He lives in Annapolis. .

Dr. H. Kenneth Willams Jr.
is completing his chief resident ye:
in general surgery at Allegheny
General Hospital in Pittsburgh.

Dr. Thomas A. Wilson
has completed his residency in ne
rosurgery at the Wake Forest |
University School of Medicine.
is now in private practice with
Neurological Associates in
Birmingham, Ala.

Darryl K. Woodson

was recently named editor of The
News-Gazette in Lexington, Va. He
had been news editor since 1990.
Woodson joined the weekly in 198:
as a reporter, but had been doing
free lance photography for the pag
through high school and his days at
W&L.

Anthony J. Zaccagnini
recently joined the law firm of
Semmes, Bowen and Semmes, Spe
cializing in liability and worker's
compensation defense. He lives in
Falls Church, Va.

OSL

Leslie Goller Dillingham
received the Mimi and Lee Adams”
Environmental Award in Decemb@
for her efforts in fighting polluting —
industries and offering free legal
counsel to environmentalists

involved in a variety of causes. She
lives in Jacksonville, Fla. |

  
     
   
 
 
 

Eugene S. (Chip) Forrester J
was selected for partnership in

Memphis (‘Tenn.) law firm of Fé
Hancock, Gilman, Branan and

-

jlen. He also organized the
a phis Bar Association’s Young
eyes Division HIV/AIDS pro bono
panel.

oda A. Klein
ae Aclanta. In November, she
i

partners merged their law
: ‘th the firm of Gambrill

and Stolz.

patricia Walther Griffin

was appointed chief magistrate for
the Justice of the Peace Courts for
the State of Delaware last October.
She lives in Lewes Beach.

°84 (REUNION)

Robert G. Buchanan Jr.
lives in Dallas. He became a share-
holder in the law firm of Cowles and

Thompson in January.

Geoffrey R.B. Carey
is an international portfolio manager

in the investment management
group at J.P. Morgan in New York

City.

Peter G. Collins

and classmate Whit Kelly are plan-
ning to play golf at the Homestead
before the reunion in May. They
invite any others who wish to join
them to get in touch with them.

Michael S. Craig

lives in Winter Haven, Fla., with his
wife, Evi, and their children,
Spencer, 5, and Rees, 3. He prac-
tices land use and environmental
law representing residential and
industrial clients developing pro-
jects in central Florida.

Enrico A. (Rick) deAlessandrini
is the non-dollar fixed-income prod-

uct manager for Yamaichi Securities

in New York City.

Andrew J. Dewing

lives in Herndon, Va., with his wife,
Mary, and their son, Hunter. He is a
regional manager with Harris

Corp.’s computer systems division.
He is also president of the Alumni
Fraternity Council and of the Chi
Psi Alumni Corporation.

Ronald M. Gache

‘84 commercial litigation attorney
with Brad and Cassel in Boca Raton,
Fla. He has been with the firm since
1987. He lives in Boca Raton with
his wife of two years, Missy.

Justus S. (Jay) Hoyt

8 a sales representative with Aureus
td., a golf apparel manufacturer.
¢ lives in Ashburn, Va., with his

wife, Karen, and their daughters,
Ordan and Lauren.

ames N.L. Humphreys
eri trial attorney with the
= (T enn.) firm of Hunter,
and Davis. He practices regu-
Yin both Tennessee and

Virginia, and concentrates primarily
in insurance defense.

Malcolm C. Kendall

left the Army in 1992 after eight
years of service. He spent the next
year as a marketing manager for a
Hong Kong-based manufacturer. He
is currently enrolled in business
school at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Mark A. Lukes

and his wife, Janet, live in
Lancaster, Pa. They have two chil-
dren, Megan and Matthew.

Angus M. McBryde Ill

works in the capital markets group
of First Union National Bank in
Charlotte. He is also training for a
marathon.

David C. Short

is vice president of RBC Inc., a
resort and residential real estate
marketing and consulting firm based
in Alexandria, Va. He and his wife,
Betsy, live in Lake of the Ozarks,
Mo.

Olin B. (Ben) St. Clair

and his wife, Valerie, live in
Baltimore, where he is a training
and development specialist for PHH
Corp.

Barthe A. Van Doorn

and his wife, Kerry, live in Ashburn,
Va., with their two sons, Kiernan
and Kendrick. He is director of
information technology products
and services at Life Cycle
Technology.

S41, (REUNION)

John L. Carpenter

and his wife, Ronnie, live in
Yarmouth, Maine, with their three
children , Robbie, Scott, and Alison.
He wishes that they could be at the
reunion this May, but maybe they'll
make it to the 15th in 1999.

Robin Jones Jackson

recently joined the Miami law firm
of Mershon, Sawyer, Johnston,
Dunwoody and Cole.

J. Grant McGuire

is an attorney in Huntington, W.Va.
He lives in Huntington with his
wife, Kheng and their son, Forrest.

Thomas B. Shepherd Ill

lives in Ridgeland, Miss., with his
wife, Mary Scott, and their two sons,
Banks and Martin.

‘85

G. Bryan Balazs

lives in Livermore, Calif., with his
wife and two sons. Balazs works at
the Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory in environmental sensor
development.

Dr. Jeffrey D. Dixon

and his wife, Siobhan, moved to
Kansas City, Mo., in July, where he
joined a group of emergency medi-
cine physicians at St. Luke’s
Hospital.

Glen O. Jackson

has been named vice president of
Manning, Salvage & Lee, a New
York-based public relations firm. He
works out of the firm’s Atlanta
office. Jackson and his wife, Claire,
have two children, Virginia and Jeff.

Landon H. Jones

will be receiving his master’s degree
in English from James Madison
University in May. He hopes to
teach at the college level next year.

William A. Maner

of New York City is a senior asso-
ciate in investment banking at
Morgan Stanley, specializing in the
coverage of healthcare companies.

Clark H. Morledge

is a computer network analyst with
INET Inc., at the NASA/Langley
Research Center in Hampton, Va.

Thomas M. Murphy

is vice president and co-owner of
George Scheer Associates, a firm
representing independent publish-
ers in sales and marketing in the
southeast and southwest. He lives in
Decatur, Ga.

Lt. Robert A. Schlegel

recently completed the Basic
Surface Warfare Officer’s Course
and received a Letter of Apprecia-
tion. The course emphasizes the
duties of an underway officer of the
deck, which includes shiphandling
and maneuvering under simulated
battle conditions.

John W. Zabriskie

is spending three months this spring
traveling through southeast Asia. He
plans to meet up with classmates
Paul Vail in Bangkok and Steve
Keros in Indonesia. He lives in
Sharon, Conn.

OOL

Jeffrey J. Giguere

has been named assistant general
counsel at the A. T. Cross Co. in
Lincoln, R.I. The company is an
international manufacturer of writ-
ing instruments (Cross pens) and a
marketer of leather products. He
lives in Cranston, R.I.

Seth C. Prager

and his wife, Etty, will be moving to
Jakarta, Indonesia, at the end of
May, where he will be working with
the law firm of Mochtar, Karuwin
and Komar. For now, the couple
lives in Washington, D.C.

‘56

Lawrence S. Anker

is a chemical engineer with Inter-
national Paper’s corporate process
technology group. He and his wife,
Wendy, are happy in their new
home in Erie, Pa. Anker stays active
in amateur wrestling as a referee.

Jack C. Benjamin Jr.

received both his MBA and his J.D.
from Tulane Law School. He is now
living in New Orleans.

Richard A. Bennett

was honorably discharged from the
U.S. Army in September 1993 on
the grounds of conscientious objec-
tion. He received the department of
pharmacology’s Lauren A. Woods
Award for Excellence in research
among doctoral students in October
1993. He was awarded a doctor of
philospohy in November 1993 from
the Medical College of Richmond.
Bennett lives in Richmond.

James M. Berger

lives in Boston where he is a mar-
keting manager with Dunkin’
Donuts Inc.

Jeffrey S. Britton

was promoted to area manager for
Pennsylvania with Brown-Forman
Beverage Co.’s wine brands group.
He is based in Downingtown.
Britton joined the company since
1987 and most recently was metro
New York wine market manager.

John P. Case lll
is an investment banker with Merill
Lynch in New York City.

Peter A. Hunt

left his position with J. P. Morgan to
become vice president, mergers and
acquisitions, with Lehman Brothers
in New York.

Lester 8. Johnson

lives in New York City. He recently
completed his doctorate degree in
molecular cell biology at the
Columbia University College of
Physicians and Surgeons. He is now
working on his medical degree, and
hopes to graduate in May 1995.

Dr. David D. Lewis

lives in Durham, N.C., where he is
the chief resident at Duke Univer-
sity Medical Center.

John D. McCaffery

is a resident in otolaryngolgy at the
University of Minnesota Hospital
and Clinic. He has two years left in
his residency and lives with his wife,
Danielle, in Lauderdale, Minn.

Townes G. Pressler Jr.

and his wife, Kathleen, recently
moved back to Houston after spend-
ing two-and-a-half years in New
York. He continues to work in the
corporate finance group of Kidder
Peabody.

47

Dr. Joseph G. Whelan Ill

is chief resident of obstetrics and
gynelology at the University of
South Carolina School of Medicine
and has been accepted to a three-
year fellowship program in repro-
ductive endocrinology and infertility
surgery at Georgetown University in
Washington, D.C. He lives in
Columbia with his dog, Kelsie ’86.

C. Reade Williams

has joined the corporate and busi-
ness/international group of Bryan
Cave as an associate in the firm’s
Washington (D.C.) office. He lives
in Arlington, Va.

OOL

Bruce L. Castor Jr.

is the first assistant district attorney
of Montgomery County, Pa. He
supervises a D.A.’s office of 110
people and prosecutes major
felonies and death penalty cases.
Castor lives in Souderton with his
wife, Elizabeth, and their children,
Bruce and Alexandra.

9

S/
Dr. Michael §. Blackwood
is finishing up his orthodontic resi-
dency at the University of Detroit-
Mercy and expects to graduate in

June. He lives in Grosse Point Park
with his wife, Heidi ’89.

Michael D.W. Cannon

was named national accounts man-
ager in the sales department with
Datastream Systems Inc. He lives in
Greenville, S.C.

Christopher R. Carter

is teaching English at the
Christchurch School in Christ-
church, Va. He also coaches cross
country, directs the winter play, and
serves as a dormitory master.

David R. Cobb

is pursuing a degree in the culinary
arts at the Cooking and Hospitality
Institute of Chicago.

William D. Deep Jr.

is a chemical engineer with Imperial
Chemical Industries in Richmond.
He recently managed the successful
commissioning of a new manufac-
turing line for graphic arts and pho-
tographic films.

Francis A. O'Reilly IIl
is a Civil War historian in
Fredericksburg, Va.

Dr. Andrew M. Reibach

is in the final year of his family med-
icine residency. He lives in Pueblo,
Colo.,with his wife, Stacey and their
son, Stephen.

John P. Rowe
is an office manager and lending

officer with Jefferson National Bank
in Richmond.

William H. Surgner Jr.,

a third-year law student at W&L,
has been included in the 1994
edition of Who’s Who Among Students
in American Universities and Colleges.
He lives in Lexington with his wife,
Amanda, and daughter, Anne, 1.

O7L

David G. Hammond

was recently named partner in the
law firm of Spilman, Thomas and
Battle in Charleston, W.Va.

James N.L. Humphreys
See ’84.

David E. Perry

was elected a partner of the law firm
of Glenn, Flippen, Feldmann and
Darby in Roanoke. He has been
with the firm since 1989.

;
SS
Charles C. Benedict Jr.

is an analyst with the Coca-Cola Co.
in Atlanta.

Erik S. Cooper

is pursuing his MBA at Washington
University in St. Louis and intends
to major in finance. Cooper writes
that he and his wife, Betsy, are thor-
oughly enjoying St. Louis and that
several W&L alumni attend the
school, including Martin Malloy ’92.

Darrin Denny
is a captain in the Marine Corps sta-
tioned in Virginia Beach.

Thomas J. Etergino

has moved to Prague, Czech
Republic, where he will live for 18
months working for Coopers &
Lybrand. He moved to Prague from
Moscow, where he spent six months
working for the company.

G. Garrett Moseley

is assistant vice president of the
investment counseling group of
Interstate/Johnson Lane, a regional
investment firm headquartered in
Charlotte. Moseley is also a fellow at
the N.C. Institute of Political
Leadership.

Thomas P. O’Brien Ill

left West Virginia for Louisville,
Ky., last fall, and is now associated
with the law firm of Middleton and
Reutinger in Louisville. He clerked
for U.S. District Judge Frederick P.
Stamp Jr. 56 in Wheeling, W.Va.,
for the past two years.

Robert J. Owen

is halfway through his history mas-
ter’s program at George Mason
University. He is currently writing
the history of the U.S. light cruiser

Marblehead, which was used during
the Philippines/Java campaigns of
World War II. He hopes to have his
work published early next year.

Richard G. Parkhurst Jr.
recently moved to Charlotte, where
he is assistant vice president of cor-
porate banking with NationsBank.

Tony L. Towler
is a Realtor with Colonna Real
Estate in Lexington.

David M. Vaughan

lives in Hyogo, Japan. He left his
job with Praxair Surface Techno-
logies in the fall to concentrate on
his studies of the Japanese language
and hopes to enroll in the translation
and interpretation program at the
Monterey Institute of International
Studies next fall.

W. Brandt Wood

just moved to Dallas from New
Orleans. He still works as vice presi-
dent for the family marine company
in New Orleans on a limited basis,
but is now working with his brother
in Dallas. He co-owns music clubs, a
restaurant, and a record label there
and will develop talent and manage
clubs with his brother.

SSL

Donna Ambler Davis

has recently become a board certi-
fied family law specialist. She con-
tinues to practice in the firm of
Levine, Stewart & Davis in Chapel
Hill, N.C.

M. Hollis Hutchinson

is affiliated with the firm of Kip
Petroff in Dallas. The firm practices
medical malpactice, personal injury,
and medical products liability work
exclusively.

S89 (REUNION)

Dana §. Anstine

will graduate from medical school at
the University of Virginia in May
and plans to start her residency in
July.

James H. Barker Jr.

is pursuing his MBA at Denver
University and plans to graduate in
June. He also works with disabled
skiers in the Breckenridge (Colo.)
Outdoor Education Center.

Emily C. Bevill

is still with Deloitte and Touche,
London as part of an 18-month
exchange with the New York office.
She is currently involved in an audit
project with the firm’s Bucharest
office, and is spending several
months in Bucharest.

Heidi Read Blackwood
is a copy editor with a corporate
publisher in Detroit. She lives in

  
   
   
  
   
 
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
   
     
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
   

Grosse Point Park with her hust
Michael ’87.

Anton T. Blok
moved back to Aruba after grady
tion and started a computer conc
ing business. His company has sj
expanded into management con,
ing and real estate project
ment.

J. Michelle Brockman
was named representative of the

year for RPR Pharmaceuticals fx
1993. She lives in Lexington, Ky,

Matthew S. Bryant
and his wife, Caroline, are currer

enjoying being graduate students
Austin, Texas. The couple plans
move to Richmond in the fall wt
Bryant will begin his position as

associate with the law firmof _
McGuire, Woods, Battle & Boott

Monica M. Burke
is a Lotus notes administrator anc
LAN engineer at Sony Music

Entertainment in New York City,
Perks of the job, she writes, incl,
travel and free CDs: “I think I’m
finally cool.”

Carol A. Couch :
lives in New York City where she
a designer in the college division
McGraw-Hill Inc. .

T. Gregory Dale

graduated from law school at
William and Mary last May and h;
taken a job in the law offices of —
Roger W. Mullins in Tazewell, V;

Philip A. DuPont
is a first lieutenant in the U.S. Ar
He is commander of C Company.
3rd Battalion, 25th Aviation
Regiment at Fort Drum, N.Y., at
writes that he hopes to instruct hi
tory at West Point. |

J. Alan Greeter

has founded Greeter Constructic
in Nashville. The company will d
primarily in residential constructit

David S. Grove

recently moved from Macon,
Herndon, Va. He is a commercial
account officer with First Union —
National Bank in Washington, L
working on a specialized industry
group for membership organizati¢

Charles D. Hartley

is pursuing his MBA at UCLA.
Previously, he worked in advertisi
at Young and Rubicam for two
years, :

Marion M. (Moose) Herring
is enrolled in the orthopedic surgs
program at the Medical College 0
Virginia in Richmond. ’

Scott J. Herubin
has had an apartment in Moscow
the past year-and-a-half. He

throughout Europe and Russia

 

joping new business for
e

dev

capt. Richard P. James Jr.

ved his medical degree from

sin Bethesda, Md., last May.
w doing a transitional

pat Tripler Army Medical
Honolulu.

usUH
He is no"
internsh!
Center in
Carty Jones

keting manager with

aft tire division in

Laura
samen.
Michelin's aircr
Charlotte.

Katherine A. Kelso

nt last summer traveling and
studying in Europe. She is now
working at the Georgetown Law |
Center as student accounts coordi-
nator and living in Arlington, Va.

Frederick W. (Frits) Lake I1l
See Linsly Hunt °91.

William R. Lasseigne Ill

lives in Tuscaloosa, Ala., where he is
a sales and marketing representative
with General Mills. He recently
received his MBA from Louisiana

State University.

Dudley W. Lee

is vice president of Stowall Engi-
neering Co. in Memphis, Tenn.,
where he lives with his wife, Louise,
and their daughter, Chandler.

G. Manoli Loupassi

is working in Richmond as an assis-
tant commonwealth’s attorney, after
having spent a year clerking for the
Honorable James B. Wilkinson,
Circuit Judge.

Edward D. (Ted) Ludwig
received his master’s of divinity

from Louisville Presbyterian
Seminary last May. He is continuing
his studies there in pursuit of a
degree in marriage and family thera-
py. He lives in Salvisa, Ky.

Laurel V. Mattson

lives in Richmond, where she is a
management recruiter with Circuit
City Stores’ corporate offices. She
fecently bought a house.

Dr. Edwin C. McGee Jr.
graduated from Vanderbilt School of
Medicine last May and is now a
first-year general surgery resident at
the Massachusetts General Hospital

in Boston.

Elizabeth S. Miles
Sraduated from physical therapy
school at the University of

uisville last summer. She has
Completed internships at Rudy Ellis

fsmedicine in Louisville and
age Rehab Hospital in
— Miles is currently work-

t Frazier Rehab in Louisville.

{tthony P. Mitchell

4ppily unmarried” and work

for yu ed” and works
Saleskit Software Corp., splitting

 

his time between St. Louis and
Chicago.

Thomas R. Moore

hopes to complete his master’s in
real estate devlopment at Johns
Hopkins this spring. He works with
his father, Richard A. Moore ’57, at
Gaylord Brooks Realty Co. Moore
lives in Lutherville, Md.

Elizabeth J. Parkins

is the communications liaison for
Advance Auto Parts. Previously she
served as director of public relations
for the Virginia Skyline Girl Scout
Council. She lives in Salem, Va.

Stuart H. Sheldon

works for Lang and Associates in
Atlanta, a marketing company for
sports and cultural events. He is cur-
rently overseeing the Coca-Cola
Olympics account and traveled to
Lillehammer for the Winter
Olympics in February.

Cathleen M. Tiernan

is a second-year associate at Brown
& Wood in New York. Her practice
is concentrated mainly in the securi-
ties litigation area.

Michael D. Tuggle

lives in Irving, ‘Texas. He was
recently promoted to senior writer at
Tracy-Locke and is now working on
the Budget Rent-A-Car, American
Airlines, and Interstate Batteries
accounts.

Alston Parker Watt

and her husband, Philip, are moving
to Zambia, Africa, in April to work
with the Owens Wildlife Conser-
vation Group. She will be working
on community development and
family planning in the villages sur-
rounding a national park while her
husband will be setting up a primary
public care system. The couple cur-
rently lives in Baltimore.

SOL, (REUNION)

Louise DiMatteo Megargee

has joined the litigation section of
the insurance defense firm of
Siciliano, Ellis, Dyer & Boccarosse
in Fairfax, Va. She lives in Arlington
with her husband, Michael.

Glenn R. Neal

is an assistant prosecuting attorney
in Parkersburg, Wood County,
W.Va. He lives in Ripley.

Robert W. Pontz

lives in Millersville, Pa. He recently
changed law firms and is now associ-
ated with Kegel, Chesters, Lapp &
Miller in Lancaster.

Dr. A. Robin Winn

formed the law firm of Winn &
Jankell in Chesapeake, Va., with
classmate Peter J. Jankell.

 

Playing Politics

Boulder (Colo.) entrepreneur Tim Phelan ’88 credits Rush
Limbaugh—“talent on loan from God,” in case you’ve been
hiding under a radio somewhere—with the high-concept inspi-
ration that took him from training for triathlons to the board-
game business. Last April, Phelan was sitting around with a fel-
low Republican listening to Limbaugh’s radio show, and his
friend got the idea “that there should be a Clinton Monopoly—
where you lose your money [instead of winning],” he recalls.

‘Two days later, Phelan bought some poster board and began

ALBERT'S
ENVIRONMENTALLY
SAFE LUMBER

 

“Putting Owls First”

PRICE: $10,000
SERVICES: $2,000
EMPLOYEES: 1,100

 

 

 

 

Slick Willie’s Sacrifice creators Matt Cevallos (left) and Tim Phelan
88, and a sample property: Making money off Clintonomics.

mapping off squares and marking down properties, such as
“Nanny’s by Zoe” and “Hillary’s Health Care World.” Then
the game went on the back burner until he played it one night
with roommate Matt Cevallos, a fellow Lawrenceville School
alumnus and iron-man competitor. “He thought it was hilari-
ous,” Phelan recalls, and RIGHT in Boulder was born. For
$2,500 each, he and Cevallos contracted a graphic designer, got
all the components, and paid their legal fees. Within three
months, the pair had put together 1,000 game boards by hand,
and Slick Willie’s $acrifice was in stores in time for Christmas.

Using real money for playing pieces and pizza-box packag-
ing, the game is strictly a low-budget novelty (even the price
tag is political: $19.96). But when 7he Denver Post ran an article
last December, he says, “we sold out of our first thousand that
day.” Then someone faxed the article to Limbaugh, Rush
plugged the game on his Dec. 10 broadcast, and orders poured
in from all but four or five states. In three short months, RIGHT
in Boulder has sold some 2,500 games, creating a greater return
on investment than even the Whitewater land deal.

Phelan quit his job as a waiter in January to market the game
full time. He and Cevallos ordered 2,000 more games, and with
a Portland (Ore.) agency, they’ve put together a direct-
response ad with an 800 number to run on Limbaugh’s TV
show, which airs twice daily in Portland. If the test market is
successful, they will take the concept to other cities.

No one can say that Phelan doesn’t know his market. “We
have a feeling there are between 500,000 and 10 million people
among whom the anti-Clinton element is extreme,” he

declares. “Our mission is to go out and find them.”

’

90
William E. (Toby) Allen
and his wife, Catherine Harris Allen
’92, live in Chapel Hill, N.C., where
he expects to receive his Ph.D in
chemistry from the University of
North Carolina this December.

Laura C. Baldwin

received her master’s in physical
therapy from Hahnemann Univer-
sity last May. She is now working as
a staff physical therapist at JFK
Johnson Rehabilitation Institute in
Edison, N.]J.

Travis V. Blain

is vice president of sales with Mack
Sails in Stuart, Fla. He lives in Palm
Beach Gardens with his father, Dan
Blain 62.

G. Wesley Boyd
See Linsly Hunt ’91.

Grattan T. Brown
is finishing a master’s in literature at
Memphis State University.

J. Wayne Burris Jr.
is stationed at Fort Bragg, N.C.

Joanne E. Even

is working for a business manage-
ment firm in Richmond. She is
working towards a master’s in public
administration at Virginia Common-
wealth University.

Karl B. Hanson

recently finished his second year of
law school at the University of
Florida in Gainesville. He expects
to graduate in December.

Gena L. Hauser

has completed her high school
teacher certification and is almost
through with the requirements for a
M.Ed. in secondary-level English at
the University of North Carolina at
Greensboro. She lives in Winston-
Salem.

Nancy L. Hickam

left her job as assistant director of
admissions at W&L last summer to
enter graduate school at the
University of Georgia. She has an
assistantship as a proposal writer for
international grants in the interna-
tional development department at
UGA. She is also doing internships
at the UGA Center for Counseling
and Personal Evaluation and at 4th

Street Elementary School in Athens.

Rachel R. Jackson

lives in Houston, where she works
with a venture capital and consult-
ing firm focusing on Mexico.

William A. Norton Jr.
received his master’s in environ-
mental engineering from the Uni-
versity of Alabama in December.

Paula J. Owsley
has completed her master’s in rural

sociology at the University of
Missouri. She recently left a position
with the U.S. Soil Conservation
Service to become a flood recovery
coordinator for a regional planning
commission in southwest Missouri.
She lives in Springfield.

John E. Perkins IV

received his master’s in urban and
regional planning from the
University of Florida in 1992. He is
now working in Tallahassee as a
geographic information systems
coordinator with the Leon County
Property Appraiser’s Office.

Jennifer E. Spreng

is a second-year law student at St.
Louis University. She is a member
of the Law Journal and president of
the Federalist Society. Last sum-
mer, she worked for the Rutherford
Institute in Charlottesville, Va., a
non-profit legal group protecting
religious freedom.

Nelson S. Teague

will finish law school at the Univer-
sity of Richmond in December. He
lives with Mark Monahan 91 in
Richmond and will be clerking for
Judge Lowe in the U.S. Magistrate
Court next semester.

Delia F. (DeeDee) Truett
received her M.S. in zoology from
the University of Tennessee. She is
now teaching biology at Young
Harris College in Young Harris, Ga.

GOL

Kathleen E. McLeroy

has been appointed chairwoman of
the corporate banking and business
law section of the Hillsborough
County Bar Association. She is an
attorney with the law firm of
Carleton, Fields, Ward, Emmanuel,
Smith and Cutler and lives in
Tampa, Fla.

’
9]
Robert B. Boswell
is in his third year at the University

of Arkansas School for Medical
Sciences in Little Rock.

Andrew D. Bunger

is living in Weston, Conn., having
recently returned from Frankfurt,
Germany, where he spent more than
two years working for Woolworth.

Douglas C. Denby

is in his third year as an agent for
Northwestern Mutual in Washing-
ton, D.C.

David L. Fenstermacher

is in his second year of law school at
the University of Georgia. He will
be clerking for two Atlanta law firms
this summer, Parker, Hudson,
Rainer and Dobbs and Nelson,
Mullins, Riley and Scarborough.

Stephen B. French

is a second-year law student at the
University of Florida in Gainesville.
He lives with classmate Chris
Commander.

Thomas E. Gottsegen

completed his master’s in journalism
from the University of Southern
California in December. He is now
living in New Orleans and plans to
begin law school in the fall.

Keiko Harada
is a commercial loan officer with
NationsBank in Lakeland, Fla.

Edward A. Hart
is working in Houston. “Go
Cowboys! Go Spurs! Go Generals!”

Alex C. Hitz

lives in Atlanta where he is chief
operating officer for banquets at the
Georgian Terrace, Atlanta’s only
National Registrar property now
available for rent.

Linsly M. Hunt

lives in Austin where she is a stu-
dent at the University of Texas
Business School along with Wes
Boyd °90 and Fritz Lake ’89.

Christopher B. Lunny

will graduate from law school at the
University of Florida in May. He
has a job as a litigation legal assis-
tant with Katz, Kutter, Haigler,
Alderman, Marks and Bryant in
Tallahassee, starting this summer.

Duncan L. Miller

lives in Memphis, Tenn., where he
is an assistant branch manager with
the National Bank of Commerce.

H. Todd Pearce

has been working as an actuarial
assistant for GEICO since July. He
lives in Germantown, Md.

Mark E. Phippard

was promoted to senior software
developer at Softlanding Systems in
Peterborough, N.H. He purchased
his first home last December. In
November, he visited classmate
John Sbar in Tampa, Fla.

Ingrid M. Schroeder

lives in Washington, D.C., where
she is a legislative analyst in the
office of management and budget.

lan S. Shupack

is a third-year medical student at
Texas A&M College of Medicine.
He lives in Temple, Texas.

Richard L. Weinstein

lives in Baltimore with David
Hunter 93. Weinstein reports that
after teaching him some basic cook-
ing skills, Hunter “has taken the art
of culinary expertise to great
heights.”

Lovell M. West
is in her second year of teaching
English in Barcelona, Spain.

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  

Elise M. Whitaker
is in her third year of law schoo} ll
the University of Georgia. She will
be clerking for Federal District
Court Judge Anthony Alaimo in
Brunswick, Ga., after graduation,

Jeffrey W. Woodland
spent two years teaching English jp
Barcelona and “loafing around” ¢
Mediterranean. Having returned ¢
the United States, he now works &
the appropriations committee of ¢
House of Representatives.

OIL

Thomas P. O’Brien Ill
See ’88.

Clifford B. Stricklin
lives in Dallas, where he is a spec}

assistant U.S. attorney for the eas
ern district of Texas.

’

92
Catherine Harris Allen
See William E. Allen ’90.

Winthrop C. Allen
lives in Wyoming and writes,
“Jackson Hole is great!”

Denise G. Brainard

has an internship with the
Prosecuting Attorneys Association
Michigan. She will be moving fre
Clinton Township to the Upper
Peninsula of Michigan next sumr
where she will work as an assistar
prosecutor in Gogebic County.

Thomas M. (T.J.) Daly Ill
is a commercial lending officer ¥
NationsBank in Richmond. Daly
reports that his apartment recenth
burned down!

Fred R. Elliott
is a loan officer with SouthTrust
Bank in Birmingham, Ala.

Matthew W. Felber
is the staff assistant in the office
Congressman Martin R. Hoke in
Cleveland. He lives in Akron, ©

Jay C. Fertile

is in his second year at the
University of Virginia Medical
School. He writes that he will be
rounds this spring and hopes to
graduate in 1996.

John A. Flippen
left his job at Procter and Gamb
work for the Upper Deck Co. in
California. He is an associate b
manager on baseball cards with &
company and says that “marketif
trading cards is a lot more fun
deodorant!” Flippen lives in
by the Sea.

G. Eric Foust
is a second-year law student at me
University of South Carolina.

 

—

Hill Goodspeed |
atinues C0 work in the cooperative
program at the National
Museum of Naval Aviation in
pensacola, Fla., while he works ona

gster’s degree in history at the
Tiniversity of West Florida.

C. Greer
Yakima, Wash., and works

dstrom’s department store.

cont.
education

Emily
lives 1n
for Nor

Thomas S. Grow
is working for the corporate legal

counsel at Tektronix Inc. in New
York City. He plans to start law
school in the fall, somewhere in the

southeast.

Courtney B. Hall
is in her second year at Tulane Law

School in New Orleans.

E. Whitney Hopkins

is in the commercial officer develop-
ment program at First National

Bank of Maryland. She lives in

Severna Park.

Douglas P. Johnson
says he is enjoying himself in
Tamaulipas, Mexico.

Jason S. Kelley
is in law school at the College of
William and Mary in Williamsburg,

Va.

Clayton A. Kennington

lives in Dallas and works for U.S.
Congressman Sam Johnson (R-
Texas).

Robert C. Little

is in his second year at the American
University Washington College of
Law in Washington, D.C. He
clerked at the law firm of Kornblum
& Ferry in San Fransisco last sum-
mer, where he supported the
defense in a major civil litigation in
Los Angeles Superior Court.

W. Darin Lockwood

is living in Vero Beach, Fla., and
working for a landscaping company.
He also coaches soccer and lacrosse
at St. Edward’s High School. He
plans to keep working there for a
while before returning to school for
an engineering degree.

Frank H. Moore

'S pursuing his master’s degree in
teaching at Virginia Commonwealth
University and coaching basketball
at Collegiate Middle School for his
second year. He lives in Richmond.

David S. Phillips
iS in his first year of law school at
¢ University of Virginia.

Ceorge C. Sakin
4S been in Florida fora year where

©wWorks for Ernest & Julio Gallo as

a
“onsultant to supermarkets in Fort
auderdale.

Evelyn A. Schroeder

is a paralegal with the law firm of
Phelps Dunbar in Jackson, Miss.
She lives in Ridgeland.

John G. Simonton

worked on a farm in Covington,
Tenn., during the fall. He is now
living in Durango, Colo.

Thomas C. Snedeker

works for the law firm of Keller and
Heckman in Washington, D.C., and
lives in Arlington, Va., with 1991
grads Bruce Taylor and Jonathan
Symonds.

Elizabeth L. Talkington

is a human resources specialist with
B.F. Goodrich Aerospace and is on
temporary assignment in the
Burlington (Vt.) area.

Matthew E. Taylor

works for Sotheby’s in New York as
the decorative arts registrar for
Sotheby’s North America.

Heather A. Turner

spent six months after graduation
living on a 4ibburz in Israel. She is
now living in Atlanta and is in her
first year of graduate school in psy-
chology at Georgia State University.

John E. Witherington Jr.

is working towards a master’s in
building construction at Auburn
University in Alabama.

Gok,

Elizabeth L. Ewert

lives in San Francisco where she is
an associate with Gordon and Rees.
Jay Miller ’93L is also with the firm.

Jessica K. Martin

is an associate practicing business
and creditors rights with the
Richmond law firm of McSweeney,
Burtch and Crump.

Timothy P. Thurtle

is an associate with the law firm of
Brown & McCormick in Glen
Burnie, Md. He lives in Millersville.

Clark H. Worthy

is an associate with Woods, Rogers
and Hazelgrove in Roanoke. Before
joining the firm, Worthy served as a
law clerk to the Honorable Emory
H. Widenener Jr., U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.

’
93

Jeremy E. Carroll

lives in Washington, D.C., where he

is a research assistant for Public

Opinion Strategies, a Republican

polling and consulting firm.

Heather N. Cook
lives in Richmond and works for
Deloitte and Touche.

John E. Hedstrom
is working as a paralegal in

Washington, D.C. He lives in
Arlington, Va.

Charles H.G. Honey

lives in New York City and is a trad-
er and equity investment analyst for
a management firm there.

David B. Hunter
See Richard Weinstein 91.

Tonya M. Yoder

lives in Taiwan where she is trying
to help both native and non-native
speakers learn correct English.

93.

Stacy M. Colvin
is an associate with Woods, Rogers
and Hazelgrove in Roanoke.

Nancy E. Hannah

lives in Cary, N.C., and works as a
research assistant for N.C. Supreme
Court Justice John Webb.

James W. Miller Jr.

is an associate with Gordon and
Rees in San Francisco. Elizabeth
Ewert ’92L is also with the firm.

Sarah E. Powell

is an associate with the Roanoke law
firm of Glenn, Flippen, Feldman
and Darby.

Laurie A. Winkler
is an associate with the law offices of
Joseph Miklasz in Glen Burnie, Md.
She lives in Pasadena.

Marriages

Peter L. Heumann ’67

to Linda Ciotti, on June 4, 1993.
The couple lives in Timonium,
Md., with Heumann’s stepson,
Nick, and three children, Sarah,
Leah, and Jon.

Joseph B. Tompkins Jr. °?71

to Nancy Powell Wilson, on Feb. 6,
1993, in Vinton, Va. The couple
lives in Alexandria with their three
sons, Graves and Forbes Tompkins
and ‘Tate Wilson.

Alan J. Prater ’73, ’80L

to Rachel Lynn Scott, on Nov. 6,
1993. The couple lives in
Shreveport, La., where Prater is
assistant chief deputy for the Caddo
Parish Sheriff's Office, in charge of
the administrative division.

M. Calhoun Colvin Jr. ’77

to Debbie Bradley, on June 27,
1993. The couple lives in Mt.
Pleasant, S.C. They honeymooned
in Australia for three weeks.

Dr. D. Marshall Jemison °78
to Hilda King, on Aug. 14, 1993.
The couple lives in Lookout
Mountain, Tenn.

D. Page Kelley 111 ’78

to Lauren Swingle, on Sept. 11,
1993, in San Francisco. The couple
lives in New York City.

Joseph F. Cox °79

to Evelyn da Costa, on Sept. 17,
1993. The couple lives in Towson,
Md. The groom is founder and pres-
ident of Benchmark Commercial
Properties, a sales, leasing and man-
agement firm in Baltimore.

James D. Gray °79

to Francel C. Carrigan, on Nov. 12,
1993. The couple lives in Houston,
where Gray is managing director for
Trammell Crow Co., a full-service
real estate firm based in Dallas.

David W. Williams ’80

to Christine Frampton, on Sept. 25,
1993, in Philadelphia. The couple
lives in Philadelphia where Williams
is a vice president with Kidder,
Peabody.

F. Andrew Boyd ’82

to Ann Elizabeth Gorton, on Nov. 6,
1993, in Georgetown. Thomas J.
Boyd °86 and T. Chase Nelson 82
were groomsmen. The couple lives
in Winchester, Va. Boyd recently
finished a government position as a
project supervisor at a historic pro-
ject in Brooklyn, N.Y., and is now a
private practice architect in Virginia.

Barry C. Russell ’82

to Nancy Wilson, on Nov. 23, 1993.
The couple lives in Ellicott City,
Md.

Cary C. Mauck ’83

to Melissa Arnold Falls, on July 24,
1993. The couple lives in Rich-
mond.

Thomas L.H. Cocke ’84

to Elizabeth Mesmer, on Oct. 16,
1993, in Sewannee, Tenn. Brother
William ’82 was the best man, and
Ben C. Hale ’85 was a groomsman.
The couple lives in Nashville,
where Cocke is a senior copywriter
for the Buntin Agency, an adver-
tising company.

Duncan H. Stone ’85

to Carla Elizabeth Gaines, on Oct.
10, 1993, in Redding, Conn. The
couple lives in Atlanta, where Stone
is a freelance copywriter.

Tyler S. Carr 87

to Christine M. Burke on Oct. 9,
1993. The couple lives in McLean,
Va., where Carr is a regional vice
president with Wood Logan
Associates.

Robert A. DuChemin ’87L

to Regina Rene Beckman, on Dec.
4, 1993. Groomsmen included class-
mates Paul Crutchea and David
Hirsberg. The couple lives in
Orlando, Fla.

James P. Cotter ’88
to Nikki Wagner, on July 30, 1993.

51

The wedding party included class-
mates Coalter Pollack, Jim Cockey,
and Joe Zamorano. The couple lives
in New Hyde Park, N.Y. Cotter is a
teacher at Chaminade High School
in Mineola.

Edward J. Willard ’88

to M. Courtney Brown, on Nov. 27,
1993, in Hopewell, N.J. Members of
the wedding party included class-
mates Chris Rooker and Jason Lisi.
Willard is a credit analyst in the per-
sonal credit department of United
Jersey Bank Central. The couple
lives in Princeton.

Lenard Garrett ’88L

to Tanya C. Lewis, on Nov. 27,
1993, in Columbia, S.C. Garrett is
ssistant director for government
affairs with the New York City
Transit Authority. The couple lives
in New York City.

Jennifer Bray ’89

to Mark Stratton, on Oct. 9, 1993.
Classmates Kelly Putney and Jim
Bledsoe were in the wedding party.
The couple lives in Houston, where
Bray is alumni chapter president.

M. Warren Butler ’89

to Kathrine Williams, on Aug. 7,
1993. The couple lives in Mobile,
Ala., where Butler is an associate
with the law firm of Lyons, Pipes
and Cook.

Marthe Christian ’89

to George G. Grattan II, on Oct. 2,
1993. Bridesmaids included class-
mates Carol Couch, Kennon Savage,
Katherine Nelligan Steuart, and
Ellen Sigler. The couple lives in
Richmond where the bride contin-
ues to work for the N.B. Handy Co.

David A. Hudson ’89

to Laurie Jackson, on Nov. 27, 1993,
in Erie, Pa. Classmate Joseph
Kavanagh was in the wedding party.
The couple lives in Fairview, Pa.

Frank M. Sands ’89

to Jessica H. Kozikowski, on Aug.
14, 1993, in Albuquerque, N.M.
The couple lives in Charlottesville,
Va. Sands expects to graduate from
business school at the University of
Virginia in May.

Edgar 8. Sydnor Jr. 89

to Michelle F. Burns, on Nov. 27,
1993. Members of the wedding
party included E. Starke Sydnor 66,
°73L, Jim Williams ’88, David Burns
*89, Mike Carroll ’89, Hunter
McFadden ’89 and Sascha Burns
93. The couple lives in Charles
Town, W.Va.

Christopher L. Willard ’89

to Gail Elizabeth Gonya, on Aug.
14, 1993. Robert K. Tompkins ’90,
°94L, John Laney ’91, and Chisolm
Coleman ’92 served as groomsmen.
The couple lives in Raleigh, N.C.,
where Willard practices law.

J. Emmette Pilgreen IV ’90

to Moira Ann Hanley, on Aug. 14,
1993, in Lee Chapel. The wedding
party included Matthew Wise 91
and Armando Benincasa "92. The
couple lives in Roanoke, where
Pilgreen is an associate with the law
firm of Lutins and Shapiro.

Matthew C. Sackett ’90

to Mary Catherine Scarborough, on
Nov. 13, 1993, in Houston.
Members of the wedding party
included classmates Karl Hanson,
‘Taylor Houck, and Jim Harber.
Brothers of the groom, Christopher
93 and Henry ’88 were also in the
wedding party. The couple lives in
Charlottesville, Va., where Sackett
is in his fourth year of medical
school at the University of Virginia.
He plans to start a residency in
internal medicine this summer.

Courtney Adams °91

to Robert Christensen ’91,

on July 31, 1993, in Lexington, Va.
The wedding party included Frank

Suddell ’91 and Dave Radulovic ’90.

The groom is a senior accountant
with Coopers & Lybrand and the
bride is a third-year law student.
The couple lives in Richmond.

Robby J. Aliff °91

to Dara Porfeli, on Dec. 18, 1993, in
Oak Hill, W.Va. Philip Spears ’93,
Jeffrey Zeigert 92, and Kevin
Struthers ’89 served as groomsmen.
Singing at the ceremony under the
direction of professor of music
Gordon Spice were 1987 graduates
Andrew Bowie and Christopher
Deighan; Jim Williams °88; 1989
grads Christopher Callas, Michael
Carroll, Jeffrey Schultz, and Gar
Sydnor; 1991 grads Franklin
Daniels, Bryan Patterson, and
Bryant Spann; 1992 grads Andrew
Keller and Roger Sullivan; and Alan
Flickenger ’94. The couple lives in
Lexington, where Aliff is assistant
director of admissions at W&L.

Kevin L. Carl ’°92

to Claire deVignier, on Dec. 19,
1993, in Richmond. Classmate Jim
Pike served as a groomsman. Carl is
a second lieutenant in the U.S.
Army stationed in Germany.

Births

Dr. @ Mrs. Milford F.
Schwartz Jr. ’61, a daughter,
Emily Rebecca, on March 16, 1993.
She joins a brother, Ethan. The
family lives in Chicago.

Mr. @ Mrs. J. Bruce Whelihan
’64, a daughter, Sara Elizabeth, by
adoption, in July 1993. The family
lives in Washington, D.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Bruce A. Meyers
’70, ason, Jonathan Joseph (J.J.),
on May 5, 1993. He joins a sister,
Elizabeth. The family lives in Mesa,
Ariz.

Mr. @ Mrs. W. Tennent
Houston ’72, a daughter,
Elisabeth Tennent, on July 20,
1993. She joins brothers Tennent
and Charlie and sisters Alice and
Margaret. The family lives in
Augusta, Ga., where Houston is
president of Merry Land &
Investment Co.

Mr. @ Mrs. Mitt Younts ’72,
a daughter, Emily Delaittre, on
April 19, 1993. The family lives in
Arlington, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Hatton C.V. Smith
’73, ason, Hatton C.V. II, on Nov.
30, 1993. The family lives in
Birmingham, Ala.

Mr. @ Mrs. David M. Bradt
Jr. °74L, ason, Jacob, on July 20,
1993. He joins a sister, Della. The
family lives in Bethesda, Md.

Mr. @ Mrs. W. Bradney
Griffin ’74L, a daughter, Kalen
Elise, on Nov. 25, 1993. The family
has recently moved to Lake Placid,
N.Y., but Griffin continues to prac-
tice law in Vermont.

Mr. @ Mrs. Gordon F.
Saunders ’74, ason, Kyle
William, on Dec. 20, 1993. He joins
a sister, Lyndsey Paige. The family
lives in Lexington, Va.

Dr. @ Mrs. Jeffrey A. Baum
°76, a daughter, Olivia Grace, on
June 11, 1993. The family lives in
Pittsburgh.

Mr. @ Mrs. Douglas R. Muir
’76, twin daughters, Julia Hanson
and Caroline LaForce, on Dec. 18,
1993. The family lives in
Greensboro, N.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Christopher A.
Johnson ’77, ason, H. Carter, on
July 29, 1993. The family lives in
Greenwich, Conn.

Mr. @ Mrs. John H.
Follansbee III ’78, ason, John
H. IV, on Jan. 19, 1994. The family
lives in Johnstown, Pa.

Mr. @ Mrs. Karl N. Koon ’78,
a daughter, Kelly McKenzie, on
Aug. 22, 1993. The family lives in
Asheville, N.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Henry C. Roemer
III ’78, a daughter, Blair Caroline,
on June 3, 1993. She joins a sister,
Suzanna Caroline. The family lives
in Winston-Salem, N.C., where
Roemer is an attorney practicing
corporate and business law with the
firm of Petree Stockton.

  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  

Mr. &© Mrs. Paul A. Domin;
'79L, a daughter, Margaret Brett
Elizabeth, on Sept. 26, 1993. She
joins brothers Pate and Mark.
family lives in Charleston, S.C.

Mr. © Mrs. John B. Jacob Jp
’79, a daughter, Molly Mar

on Nov. 22, 1993. The family lives
in Alexandria, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Shaun R. Levesg
'79, ason, Eamon Hayes, on Jur
28, 1993. The family lives in
Wrentham, Mass.

Mr. @ Mrs. Jonathan W. Pin
Jr. ’79, ason, Jonathan W. III, ¢
Aug. 27, 1993. The family lives in
Baltimore. Pine is editor-in-chief,
medical specialties, with Williams
and Wilkins.

Mr. @ Mrs. Sean R. Smith —
’'79, ’83L, twin sons, Daniel Je

and Patrick John, on Aug. 29, 1993.
The family lives in Brooklyn, N.Y.

Mr. @ Mrs. Gregory B. Dyer
’80, a daughter, Mary Christine,
Oct. 29, 1993. She joins a brother,
Kevin, and two sisters, Katie and
Colleen. The family recently mov
to a new home in Kensington, Md.

Mr. @ Mrs. William F. Hill
’80, ason, Charles David, on
March 31, 1993. The family lives

Greenville, N.C. |

Mr. © Mrs. Bishop B. Norri.
’81, a daughter, Mary Katherine,
on May 30, 1993. The family live
Collierville, Tenn. Norris is manag
ing partner of the acounting firm
Vawter, Gramman, Norris & Co.

Mr. @ Mrs. Alan P. Pryor "8
a daughter, Hutchinson Alexandra
(Alix) Standifer, on Jan. 13, 1994.
She joins a brother, A.J. The family
lives in Lincoln University, Pa.

Mr. @ Mrs. L. Thomas
Raymond III ’81, ason, Laurie
Thomas IV, on Oct. 7, 1993. The
family lives in Cumberland
Foreside, Maine.

Mr. @ Mrs. Frank W. Brow
III ’82, ason, Mason Grant, on
Dec. 27, 1993. The family lives in
Dallas. ;

Mr. @ Mrs. William F.L.
Brown ’82, ason, Cotter Dixon,
on Aug. 17, 1993. The family lives.
in Basking Ridge, N.].

Dr. @ Mrs. Rickie K. Monro
°82, ason, Joshua, on Nov. 3, 19%
The family lives in Perrysburg,
Ohio. Monroe is a practicing anes-
thesiologist at Mercy Hospital in
Toledo.

Mr. @ Mrs. Ejay Clark ’83,
twin daughters, Erin Marie and

o

 

-

idy Ann,

 

on Oct. 19, 1993. The
ily lives in Stamford, Conn.
completed his master's in
Ton at the University of
orideePor in December.

. -
sos "83, a daughter, tee
cs, on Dec. 7, 1993. The family
jives in Hillsborough, Calif.

Mrs. Cecily LaVigne Morris
'g3L, and her husband, Mark, a
son, Kevin Patrick, on Dec. 6, 1993.
He joins a brother, Michael, and two
sisters, Emily and Leah. The family

lives in Massena, N.Y.

Mr. &@ Mrs. James C. Hudson
94, a daughter, Taylor Elizabeth,
on Sept. 29, 1993. She joins a broth-
er, Andrew. The family lives in

Charlotte.

Mr. @ Mrs. Robert W. Massie
IV ’84, ason, Patrick Shields, on
Jan. 6, 1993. Massie is a manage-
ment consultant with Deloitte and
Touche in Washington, D.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Craig H. McArn
84, ason, Christopher Hunter, on
Dec. 12, 1993. The family lives in
Bay Village, Ohio.

Mr. William D. Alden ’84L

@ Ms. Susan P. Vorhees ’84L,
a daughter, Madeline Voorhees
Alden, on Sept. 29, 1993. The fami-
ly lives in Princeton, N.J.

Mr. @ Mrs. Christopher H.
Brooks ’85, ason, Jory, on Dec. 8,
1993. He joins a sister, Emily. The
family lives in Alpharetta, Ga.

Mr. @ Mrs. John A. DiDuro
85, adaughter, Mariana DeVane,
on July 30, 1993. She joins a brother,
A.J. The family lives in Wood-
bridge, Va. DiDuro continues to
work as a computer scientist for the
Army out of the Pentagon.

Mr. @ Mrs. George B. Kinkead
‘85, ason, John Blackburn, on June
29, 1993. The family lives in St.

Paul, Minn.

Mr. @ Mrs. John L. Dockery
'85L, a son, Lawrence Clement,
on Dec. 2, 1993. The family lives in
Las Vegas, Nev.

Mr. @ Mrs. Edward M.

Graham '87L, a daughter, Emma

Rigney, on July 21, 1993. The fami-
lives in Chicago, where Graham is

a litigation associate at the law firm
of Peterson and Ross.

- Virginia Carruthers
te '87L, and her husband, a
hae Virginia Gilder, on Feb.
. 994. The family lives in
fmingham, Ala., where Smith is a
td member of the Birmingham

alumni chapter. She is currently not
practicing law and is kept busy by
her three children.

Mr. @ Mrs. David B. Carson
’88L, a daughter, Anna Paden, on
Nov. 6, 1993. The family lives in
Roanoke.

Mrs. Margaret Graf Lisner
’91L and her husband, Samuel, a
son, Daniel James, on July 10, 1993.
The family lives in Geneseo, N.Y.

in Memoriam

Judge M.F. Hays 15,

retired educator and insurance exec-
utive, died Nov. 22, 1993. After
leaving W&L in 1914, Hays went on
to earn his B.A. from Ogden College
in Chicago. He then moved to
Kentucky, where he worked as a
teacher, principal and superinten-
dent of high schools for 33 years. In
1948, he retired from his career in
education and bought the Eliza-
bethtown (Ky.) Gas Co., which he
managed for three years. In 1951,
Hays opened the J.M.F. Hays
Insurance and Realty Co. in Glen-
dale, Ky. He served as president of
the company until his retirement.

Dr. Samuel L. Raines ’21,
retired urologist, died Dec. 17, 1993,
in Memphis, Tenn. He was a mem-
ber of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity,
Omicron Delta Kappa, the Univer-
sity Glee Club, the football team,
the baseball team, the White Friars,
the Cotillion Club, the Sigma
Society and the 13 Club at W&L.
He also served the University as a
class agent. In 1926, Raines received
his medical degree from the Univer-
sity of Tennessee at Knoxville. In
1929, he joined the department of
urology at the school as an instruc-
tor. He stayed with the department,
working his way up to department
chair, until 1966. He was chief of
staff at Methodist Hospital in
Memphis twice, in 1948-49 and
again in 1964-69. He served in the
Army Medical Corps during World
War II under General Patton. He
received an honorary Doctor of
Science degree from Washington
and Lee in 1964.

Douglass P. Wingo ’24L,
retired attorney, died June 20, 1993.
He was a member of the Sigma Nu
fraternity, the Phi Delta Phi legal
fraternity, and played football at
W&L. After leaving Lexington in
1923, Wingo was the assistant foot-
ball coach at Birmingham Southern
College for five years. He joined the
Birmingham law firm of Bibb,
Foster, Conwell and Strickland in
1924 and remained with the firm
until his retirement in 1976. He
served in the Marines during both

World Wars, achieving the rank of
colonel in World War II. Wingo
served as city attorney for several
Alabama municipalities during his
legal career.

Edward O. Henderson 25,
real estate manager, died Dec. 10,
1993. He was a member of Beta
Theta Pi fraternity at W&L. After
graduation, Henderson moved to
the Boston area and began a career
in real estate. He worked there until
his retirement in 1969, from his
position as property manager with
R.M. Bradley and Co. He spent his
retirement years in Englewood, Fla.

Charles E. Van Horn ’27,
retired letter carrier and postal clerk,
died Jan. 5, 1994, in Alexandria, Va.
He was a member of Lambda Chi
Alpha fraternity at W&L. After leav-
ing W&L in 1926, Van Horn played
professional football in New York.
Later, he was a professional golfer in
Pittsburgh and also operated a
bridge center. In 1942, Van Horn
returned to the Washington (D.C.)
area and began working as a letter
carrier in Landover Hills. He served
in the Navy during World War II,
and then returned to postal work.
He retired in the mid-1970s as a
clerk in the D.C. post office.

Julian E. Glaspie ’28,

retired purchasing agent, died Nov.
6, 1993, in Mansfield, La. Glaspie
worked for Nabor’s Trailers prior

to his retirement in 1975. He was a
member of the Zoning Commission,
Rotary Club, and the First United
Methodist Church in Mansfield.

John S. (Jack) Hanckel ’28,
retired utility company executive,
died Dec. 16, 1993, in Camp Hill,
Pa. He was a member of the Sigma
Nu fraternity at W&L. In 1930,
Hanckel joined the Pennsylvania
Power and Light Co. as a commer-
cial representative. He was with the
company for 44 years, holding a
number of positions until his retire-
ment in 1974 as vice president of
the company’s Harrisburg division.

George A. Sprinkel III °30,
retired insurance executive, died
Jan. 28, 1994. He was a member of
the Kappa Sigma fraternity at W&L.
After graduation, he went to work as
an insurance agent in Richmond and
in 1939, he joined Continental
Insurance Cos. in Orlando, Fla. He
moved to Miami in 1965 and man-
aged the company’s Miami office
until his retirement in 1973.
Sprinkel served in the Navy during
World War II, in the Pacific theater.

William T. Stuchell Jr. °30,
retired insurance executive, died
Jan. 24, 1994. He left the University
in 1929 and went on to receive his
B.A. from Rutgers University in
1930. In 1933, he received his J.D.

from New York University. From
1933 to 1939, Stuchell was associat-
ed with several New York law firms,
and in 1939, he joined the legal
department of Metropolitan Life
Insurance Co. He was with the com-
pany until he retired as assistant
general counsel in 1973. He served
in the Navy during World War II,
and was awarded the Pacific
Theater Ribbon and the Victory
Ribbon for his military service.

Houston M. Minniece ’31,
retired insurance agent, died Nov.
19, 1993. He was a member of
Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity at
W&L and served as a class agent as
an alumnus. After graduation,
Minniece returned to his hometown
of Meridian, Miss., and went to
work for F.W. Williams State
Agency Insurance. He retired as
president of the company in the
mid-1970s and moved to Pass
Christian, Miss., and later to
Jackson, Miss. He served in the
Navy during World War II, in the
Pacific Theater.

Albert G. Peery ’31, ’32L,

retired district judge of the 29th
Circuit of Virginia, on Sept. 7, 1993,
in Tazewell, Va. He was a member
of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity at
W&L. After receiving his law
degree, Peery went into private
practice in his hometown of
Tazewell. In 1935, he was appoint-
ed Trial Justice, County Judge and
General District Judge in the Court
of First Instance of ‘Tazewell, posi-
tions he held until 1977. From 1943
to 1945, Peery served as an officer in
the U.S. Naval Reserves at a base in
the South Pacific.

Harold M. Weston °31,

former attorney and expert in labor-
relations management and govern-
ment, died Jan. 1, 1994, in Hastings-
on-Hudson, N.Y. He was a member
of Zeta Beta Tau fraternity at W&L.
In 1934, he received his J.D. from
Harvard University. He was a part-
ner in Forsyth, Decker, Hubbard
and Broderick and later served as
counsel to that firm and its succes-
sor, Decker, Hubbard and Weldon
in New York City. During World
War II, he served in the Army in
North Africa and Europe. For many
years, Weston represented the Yale
Club, U.S. Tobacco, Bibbs and Cox,
St. Barnabas Hospital and various
other hospitals and industries. He
had also been attorney at the New
York Mortgage Commission. In
1960, Weston was appointed by
President Eisenhower to serve on
the emergency fact finding board
charged with handling national rail-
road disputes. In recent years, he
was called upon to arbitrate labor
disputes involving the telephone
and railroad industries. In 1991, he
was still busy with cases involving

CSX, Burlington Northern, New
York Telephone, New Jersey Bell,
New York University, and
Shopcraft.

Erwin J. (Jerry) Ade ’32,
professional fund-raiser, died Oct.
26, 1993. He was a member of Pi
Kappa Phi fraternity at W&L.
During the 1940s, Ade worked for
Myler Plastics in New York City. In
1952, he became the fund-raising
director of the National Fund for
Medical Education. He also served
as administrative director for the
Citizen’s Commission for the
Hoover Report, executive secretary
of the National Doctor’s Commis-
sion for Improved Medical Services,
the first national campaign director
for the American Heart Association
and director of the commerce and
industry division of the NYU/

Bellevue Medical Center Campaign.

During World War II, he was direc-
tor of the Commerce and Industry
Division for War Bond Drives, the
American Red Cross and the USO.
He opened the E.J. Ade Co. in New
York City, a fund-raising and public
relations firm in 1952, and later
opened Pointmakers Inc. in 1968, a
firm designed to professionally plan,
organize, direct, and stage new
product introductions. He retired to
Palm Beach, Fla., in 1979.

Haven Walton °32,

retired executive of Alcoa Steam-
ship Co., died Nov. 17, 1993, in
New Orleans. He was a member of
the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity at
W&L. In 1940, he joined the Alcoa
Steamship Co. and spent some time
in Trinidad and Suriname with the
company during the 1940s. He
returned to the states in the late
1940s and worked in Missouri for a
while, before moving to New
Orleans. In 1967, Walton retired
from Alcoa and joined the Jan C.V.
Terwyk Co. He retired in 1975 as a
vice president.

E. Marshall Nuckols Jr. °33,
‘35L, former rector of the Board of
Trustees of Washington and Lee
and retired senior vice president of
the Campbell Soup Co., died March
10, 1994, in Weston, Vt. He was a
member of Alpha Tau Omega fra-
ternity, Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron
Delta Kappa, and the Order of the
Coif at W&L. A past president of
the Alumni Association, Nuckols
was a member or the University’s
Board of Trustees from 1969 to
1981, serving as rector from 1974 to
1981. After receiving his law degree
in 1935, Nuckols worked as an asso-
ciate with the law firm of Coving-
ton, Burling, Rubell, Acheson and
Shorb in Washington, D.C. In 1942,
he left the firm to join one of its
clients, the Campbell Soup Co. He
held a number of positions with the

54

company, including secretary, gen-
eral counsel, vice president, and
finally senior vice president-admin-
istrative services. He retired in 1976
and moved from Newtown, Pa., to
Weston, Vt. Nuckols was a past
president of the Camden County
(N.J.) United Fund and the
National Canners Association.

Clarence W. Campbell ’35,
retired teacher, died Aug. 7, 1990, in
Hornell, N.Y. He belonged to Delta
Tau Delta fraternity at W&L, but
transferred to the University of
Buffalo (N.Y.) in 1933, and received
his B.A. in 1937. He was a World
War II Army veteran and a former
teacher at Canisteo (N.Y.) Central
School. He also coached swimming
and wrestling at the school.

LeRoy Hodges Jr. °35,

tobacco industry executive, died
Jan. 28, 1994, in Richmond. He was
a member of Pi Kappa Alpha frater-
nity and Omicron Delta Kappa at
W&L. After graduation, Hodges
moved to Danville, Va., and began
working for Dibrell Brothers, deal-
ers in leaf tobacco. He served in the
Navy during World War II, and was
stationed in the Caribbean and
along the west coast of South
America. After the war, he joined
the Maury Leaf Tobacco Co. and
worked his way up to vice president.
In 1959, he moved to Alexandria,
Va., to be a marketing specialist
with the tobacco division of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture’s foreign
agricultural services department, a
job that took him around the world.
In 1977, he retired and moved to
Richmond.

N. Joe Rahall ’35,
communications executive, died
April 1, 1993. He left W&L in 1932
and received his B.A. from Duke
University in 1935. He eventually
came to own seven radio stations
and several television stations in
five states. In 1979, he sold Rahall
Communications Corp. and retired
to Beckley, W.Va.

Richard V.T. Criss °36,

funeral director, died Nov. 2, 1993,
in Newark, Ohio. He was a member
of Phi Kappa Psi fraternity at W&L.
After graduation, he returned to
Ohio to join his father and brother
in Criss Brothers Funeral Directors,
which was founded in 1894. He
served in the Pacific Theater with
the Army during World War II. Criss
worked as a funeral director for
more than 50 years. He was also the
founder and chairman of the board
of Assured Protection Inc.

John T. Massengale ’36,

died Nov. 11, 1993, in West
Chester, Pa. He was a member of
Phi Delta Theta fraternity at W&L.
Massengale received his Ph.D in

chemistry from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in 1939. He
worked for 45 years as a manager of
research and development for the
former FMC Corp. in Philadelphia
and Marcus Hook, retiring in 1984.
He served in the Marine Corps dur-
ing World War II, taking part in
landings in the South Pacific. In
recent years, he coached Little
League and Senior League baseball.

Richard T. Scully ’36,

died Dec. 24, 1993. He was a mem-
ber of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity
and the Glee Club at W&L. He
attended law school in the evenings
and received his law degree from
the University of Connecticut in
1948. He worked as an attorney in
West Hartford, Conn., for many
years, serving as town prosecutor
and vice chairman of the town Plan
and Zoning Commission. He was
also chairman of the Democratic
Party in West Hartford. Eventually,
Scully became chief judge of the
Municipal Courts of Connecticut.
He was also a founding benefactor
of St. Patrick’s Catholic Church in
Lexington, Va.

William A. Landreth ’37,
Texas oilman, died in July 1993 in
Fort Worth. During his one year at
W&L, he was a member of Kappa
Sigma fraternity. He transferred to
the University of Texas and re-
ceived his B.A. in 1939. That same
year, he entered the oil business
with Landreth and Co., where he
worked until 1942, when he entered
the Army. He served in Europe
until 1945, and returned to the oil
business in Fort Worth.

Kester W. Denman Jr. ’38,
retired attorney, died Aug. 8, 1993.
He was a member of Kappa Sigma
fraternity at W&L. In 1940, he
received his LLB from Baylor
University and went into practice
with Mantooth and Denman in
Lufkin, Texas, for the next two
years. From 1942 until 1945,
Denman served in the Navy. In
1945, he returned to his law practice
in Lufkin. He later served as chair-
man of the board of Lufkin
Telephone, a division of Conroe
Telephone Co. He also worked as
an attorney for Southwestern Bell in
Houston before moving back to
Lufkin to retire.

Lauren D. (“Wildman”) Wild
’38, graphic designer and instruc-
tor, died Dec. 16, 1993, in Charlotte.
He was a member of Phi Kappa Psi
fraternity , the Commerce Club and
the swim team at W&L. He taught
printing and graphic arts at Clemson
University and Washentaw
Community College in Ann Arbor,
Mich. At the time of his death, he
was teaching at Central Piedmont
Community College in Charlotte. In

   
 
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
   
  

1982, he won the first Clemson
Industry award for Graphic Arts,
Wild's Paper Primer Book was also
published that year. In 1989, he yw,
the Best Faculty Award at Central —
Piedmont Community College. 4
past president of the Saline (Mich,)
Kiwanis Club and elected member
of the Saline School Board, Wild
was general chairman of the town’s
centennial celebration in 1966, ;

William R. Abbott ’40,
retired salesman, died Nov. 14,
1993, in Woodway, Texas. He was a
member of the football team at
W&L. He left the University in
1938 and went to work for the Inte
national Harvester Co. He served j
the Air Force during World War I]
After the war, Abbott returned to
International Harvester and later
worked in sales for several other _
Texas businesses before moving to”
Chicago as a district sales superyi
with the Curtis Candy Co.

The Hon. John C. Snidow Jr.
'40L, retired judge, died April 26,
1993. He was a member of Phi |
Alpha Delta legal fraternity at ;
W&L. Snidow opened a law office —
in Christiansburg, Va., where he
practiced until 1974 when he was _
elected Judge of the General
District Court of the 27th Judicial
District of Virginia. He retired fror
the bench in 1987 and moved to
Blacksburg, Va.

John M. Read Jr. °41,
accountant, died July 27, 1993, in —
East Cleveland, Ohio. Read was a_
member of Beta Theta Pi fraterni
at W&L and played lacrosse and

basketball. He served in the Army
after graduation until 1945. In 194¢€
Read moved to Atlanta to work as —
an accountant with the Braswell

Auditing Co. Several years later, f
returned to his home state of Ohio.

John W. Weathers Jr. °41,
retired marketing executive, died
Aug. 29, 1993, in Banner Elk, N.C.
Weathers served in the Army .
Quartermaster Corps from 1942 to
1945. After the war, he worked in
food marketing and distribution af
owned and operated Weathers
Marketing Co. in Charlotte.

  
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
   
   
 
  

Thomas L. Crittenden °42,
died March 19, 1993, in Wilmingt
N.C. He was a member of Kappa —
Alpha fraternity at W&L, but left —
the University in 1940. He went of
to complete his B.S. at the Univer
sity of North Carolina and graduates
in 1948. He served in the Army fe
1941 until 1946. He was a comput
ler/cashier with First Citizen’s E ar
and Trust in Wilmington at the tf
of his death.

John W. Goode Jr. °43
died Feb. 5, 1994, in San Antonio,

 

-

 

was a member of Sigma
- Epeilon fraternity, Omicron
Alp Kappa, the Sigma Society, the
at n Club, the White Friars, the
Se ciub and the football team at
Sel. Goode left the University in
1942 and received his B.A. from the
‘exas-Austin in 1943.

; itv of I
niversity 0! .
a also received his Bachelor of

Laws from the school in 1948. He
served in the Marines during World
War II in the South Pacific and was
awarded several commendations
-acluding the Silver Star, the Bronze
- and a presidential unit citation.
aie: rwo-and-a-half years in the
Bexar County (Texas) district attor-
ney’s office, he entered private prac-
tice in 1951, establishing Hardy and
Goode, which later became Foster,
Lewis, Langely and Goode. In 1964,
he established partnership with
Robert Sawtelle, which grew into
Sawtelle, Goode, Davidson and
Trollo. In 1991, he was one of the
founders of Goode, Casseb and
Jones, and was chairman at the time

of his death.

James G. LaPlante ’43,

retired insurance company presi-
dent, died Feb. 11, 1994. He was a
member of Phi Kappa Psi fraternity
and the tennis team at W&L. He
served in the Navy from 1943 to
1946. He received his MBA from
Stanford University in 1948 and
worked as an marketing economics
analyst with Shell Oil Co. in San
Francisco for a year. In 1949, he
joined the Industrial Insurance
Indemnity Co. in San Francisco,
where he remained until his retire-
ment as company president.

Edwin F. (Bud) Robb Jr. ’43,
retired life insurance agent, died
Nov. 9, 1993, in Minneapolis. He
was a member of Phi Kappa Psi fra-
ternity, Omicron Delta Kappa and
the wrestling team at W&L. He was
a Navy navigator during World War
ll and served as mayor of Deep-
haven, Minn., from 1956 until 1960.
Robb sold life insurance for the
National Life Insurance Co. of
Vermont and earned membership in
the company’s President’s Club in
1964. He was on the Metropolitan
Planning Commission for six years
before joining the Hennepin
unty Board in 1966. He retired

when his sixth term expired at the
end of 1988. Robb was also instru-
Mental in building the suburban

€nnepin County libraries.

Arthur Thompson Jr. °43,
tired insurance company execu-
te, died Dec. 31, 1993, in
_ N.Y. He was a member of
Ppa Alpha fraternity at W&L.
on Served in the Army for
years during World War II and
: ened in the South Pacific.
_ he began working for the
an's Fund Insurance Co. in

Manhattan. He retired in 1982 as a
vice president and manager of the
insurance company’s New York City
branch office.

Daniel H. Ball ’46,
businessman, died in December
1993, in Winnetka, III. He was a
member of Delta Tau Delta frater-
nity at W&L and served in the
Navy in the Pacific Theater during
World War II. After the war, Ball
went to work in the sales and adver-
tising department of the Chicago
Leather Belting Co. He later joined
the Chicago-Allis Manufacturing
Corp. He retired as executive vice
president and chairman in 1988.

Franklin P. Pulley III ’48L,
former attorney, died Feb. 17, 1993.
He left W&L in 1947 and received
his law degree from the Virginia
College of Commerce and Laws in
Richmond in 1950. He practiced law
in Roanoke, primarily dealing in
bankruptcy cases.

Earl L. Hargrove Jr. ’52L,
accountant, died April 9, 1993. He
was a member of the Law Review
and Phi Alpha Delta legal fraternity
at W&L. He served in the Army
during the Korean War. He worked
as a certified public accountant with
Leach, Calkins and Scott in Rich-
mond from 1954 to 1959. In 1959,
Hargrove started as a senior tax
accountant with Robertshaw-Fulton
Controls Co. in Richmond. He
served the company in a number of
positions, and retired as assistant
treasurer and director of taxes.

John G. Cargill Jr. ’54

died Jan. 5, 1994. He was a member
of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity at
W&L. After leaving W&L in 1953,
Cargill lived in northern Virginia.
He worked as a sales agent for Louis
A. Tilmant and Co., Belgian steel
manufacturers, before becoming a
sales manager with the Recony
Sales and Engineering Corp. He
eventually moved to Moneta, Va.,
and worked as a certified land sur-
veyor. Cargill later served as presi-
dent of the Virginia Wood Heating
Co. in Moneta.

Robert M. Davenport ’54

died Jan. 30, 1994, in Jacksonville,
Fla. He was a member of Phi Delta
Theta fraternity at W&L. He was an
executive with the Krystal Co. for a
number of years. The company was
founded by his family and owned
the Krystal restaurant chain. He
subsequently developed Stonedge,
a condominium development atop
Lookout Mountain in Tennessee,
before moving back into the restau-
rant business in 1982 by establishing
Central Park, a chain that features
double drive-through units and is
based in Chattanooga.

Cecil J. Edmonds ’54

died May 29, 1993, in Virginia
Beach. He lived in Roanoke. He
was a member of Delta Upsilon fra-
ternity at W&L. He was a former
columnist and editor for The Roanoke
Times and publisher of The Roanoke
Svar. In 1960, he was a founding
partner in the advertising firm of
Brand, Edmonds and Wreden. He
later served as vice president and
general manager of the firm and was
president of its successor, Brand and
Edmonds Associates.

Frank P. Rexford ’56

died in June 1993. He was a mem-
ber of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity at
W&L. He left the University in
1955 and completed his B.S. at
Johns Hopkins University in 1962.
He worked as an accounting clerk
for Bethlehem Steel in Pennsylvania
from 1955 until 1968. He later
worked as an auditor for Defense
Contract Auditing Agency in
Baltimore.

John L. Smith Jr. ’69,

former attorney, died Nov. 20, 1993.
He was a member of Kappa Sigma
fraternity at W&L. He received his
J.D. from the University of Virginia
in 1972 and his master of law in tax-
ation from Georgetown University
in 1977. He served as a lieutenant in
the Navy Judge Advocate Generals
Corps until 1980, when he joined
the law firm of Outland, Gray,
O’Keefe and Hubbard in Norfolk,
Va. He was a partner in the firm at
the time of his death.

M. Garland Rigney ’70L

died Nov. 5, 1993, in Fairfax, Va. He
was editor of the Law Review while
at W&L. Rigney was retired from
the Army Judge Advocate Generals
Corps and lived in Fairfax.

Charles C. Holbrook Jr. °72
died Feb. 7, 1994, in Hermosilla,
Mexico. He served in the Army
from 1973 to 1975, and received his
MBA from the College of William
and Mary in 1977. He then joined
IBM in Richmond as a marketing
representative. Holbrook later
moved to Ponte Vedra, Fla., and
worked for Club Operations and
Property Management in Tallahas-
see. At the time of his death, he was
general manager of Club Los Logas
in Hermosilla, Mexico.

Henry R. Garden III ’75L,
Norfolk (Va.) attorney, died Dec.
21, 1993. He was a member of the
Legal Aid and Research Association,
the Mock Trial Committee, the
Student Bar Association and Phi
Delta Phi legal fraternity at W&L.
For two years after graduation,
Garden was a law clerk for the
Honorable Walter E. Hoffman °31,
Judge of the Eastern Division of the
U.S. District Court. He went on to
practice law in Norfolk, Va.

Alan A. Sant’Angelo ’80L,
former attorney, died Oct. 16, 1993.
He was a member of the Law
Review at W&L. He was a former
deputy attorney general with the
Division of Criminal Justice in
Trenton, N.J. He later went into
private practice and was a partner in
the firm of Sant’Angelo and Trope
in Somerville at the time of his
death.

William Jackson (Jack) Litz
III °95L, asecond-year law stu-
dent at W&L, died Feb. 15, 1994, in
Staunton, Va. He was a member of
St. John’s United Methodist Church
in Buena Vista, where he taught
Sunday school and sang in the choir.
He was an Eagle Scout and an
Eastman Scholar and graduated
summa cum laude in chemical engi-
neering from Auburn University.

Faculty

 

George Stephen Whitney,
professor of organic chemistry at
Washington and Lee, died Jan. 11,
1994, in Lexington. He was 60. A
native of Wheatland, Wyo., Whitney
grew up in Colorado and received
his B.A. from the University of
Colorado in 1955 and his Ph.D from
Northwestern University in 1962.
Before coming to W&L in 1962,
Whitney taught for one year at
Wabash College as an assistant pro-
fessor of chemistry. He became a
full professor of chemistry at W&L
in 1973. In 1964-65, Whitney was a
fellow at the University of Basle,
Switzerland with the Swiss-
American Foundation for Scientific
Exchange. In 1970-71, as the recipi-
ent of a Sloan-Washington and Lee
Fellowship Grant, he did research at
the University of Bristol, England,
and presented a paper, “Free
Radical Additions,” before the
school of chemistry while there. At
W&L, he was a co-director of the
National Science Foundation
Undergraduate Science Education
Program. Last May, Whitney was
awarded the 12th annual William
Webb Pusey III Award for outstand-
ing service and dedication to
Washington and Lee.

 

 

 

tos 9 4

 

May 12, 13, 14

HONORING THE UNDERGRADUATE AND LAW CLASSES
1944 1949 1954 1959 1964
1969 1974 1979 1984 1989

 

 

 

‘THURSDAY EVENING, May 12 “Prelude to Atlanta: The 1996 Olympics and W@L”
REUNION KEYNOTE ADDRESS COCKTAILS WITH THE FACULTY
SPEAKER: Dr. Sidney M.B. Coulling III °46, ALUMNI CONCERT Southern Comfort and Sazeracs
Professor of English Emeritus BUFFET DINNER featuring the Johnny McClenon Big Band
RECEPTION at the Alumni House REUNION DANCE featuring Spectrum
FRIDAY, May 13 SATURDAY, May 14
REUNION SEMINARS ANNUAL JOINT MEETING of the Undergraduate and
“Anguish of Blood: Ethnic Conflicts Across Eastern Europe” Law Alumni Associations in Lee Chapel
“Preparing for the 21st Century: Three Critical Decisions” CLASS MEETINGS
“W&L Today: An Undergraduate and Law Student Panel PICNIC LUNCHEON
Discussion” CLASS BANQUETS AND PARTIES

“Scientific Frontiers at Washington and Lee” RECEPTION at the Student Center

on ee al N CGeT’°-O 'N es Ly Bea

 

Armchairs and Rockers

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed

 

in black lacquer or dark pine stain. The five-color crest of
the University is painted on the back of each chair or rocker.
‘They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture and are
welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas, birthdays, gradu-
ation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John
Graham °14.

To order: Include your name, address, your tele-

 

 

phone number, and a telephone number, if known, for the

 

delivery location. Indicate chair or rocker and color. Make

BOSTON ARMCHAIR check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Please allow 6-8
ROCKER Black lacquer with weeks for delivery.

Black lacquer cherry arms

or or

Dark pine $250 Dark pine $250 MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:

‘The Boston Rocker requires some assembly. WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMN I INC.
Prices include freight charges. Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

an ie

ee aay z. ’ i 4 Pa As" F a ee :
ee eT he a¢0 ee eed 9
a ) 8 Bg 8

|

 

md re REIS ee We

ea ted a: 2 area alert A a,

 

Th

Imagine a world-class resort and conference facility located
within an casy drive of historical sites, amusement parks, and
acres and acres of shopping opportunities.

Imagine two classic golf courses—one designed by Arnold
Palmer, the other by Pete Dye—hard against the James River
in Colonia! Williamsburg.

Imagine a legion of loyal Washington and Lee alumni
stretching the limits of the Honor System as they regale each
other with tales of birdies and pars (no bogeys, of course) on
those two classic courses.

You have just imagined the 1994 Washington and Lee
Open at K ngsmill Resort.

This year’s event will be played July 29-31 at Kingsmill in
Williamsbu
nity to test their skill on two world-class courses—the River
Course, home of the PGA’s Anheuser-Busch Golf Classic,
designed |
Arnold Pa
Short gam
landscape

The tournament will offer golfers the opportu-

Pete Dye, and the Plantation Course, designed by
mer. There is also the Bray Links Par 3 to test your
All three courses are designed around a natural
{ lakes, ponds, trees, and more than 350 years of
Story ov,

‘looking the James River. In addition to the distinc-
tive

©ourses, Kingsmill boasts its touring pro Curtis Strange,

the 1988 . d 1989 U.S. Open champion.

ee

 

The event begins on Friday evening with cocktails, a ban-
quet, and review of the tournament. After breakfast on your
own, tee times on Saturday start at 8:30 a.m. and go until 11
a.m. Saturday evening’s festivities include a cocktail party and
dinner. Following breakfast on your own, tee times on Sunday
begin at 8:30 a.m., with an awards ceremony scheduled after
the last group finishes. Awards will be given for low gross and
low net (for men and women), and closest to the pin and
longest drive on each day.

The cost for this year’s event includes dinner on both
nights, accommodations for two nights, all golf charges and
handling fees, trophies, and giveaways. The costs are:

$560 for single golfer in single room

$435 for single golfer sharing a room

$560 for a couple with one golfer

$750 for a couple, both golfers

A special mailing will be sent out in April to all Washington
and Lee golfers who have expressed an interest in the W&L
Open. For more information about the Open or to be included
on the mailing list, contact the W&L Alumni Office at (703)
463-8464, or fax us at (703) 463-8473.

Deadline for entries is June 10, 1994. We look forward to
seeing you at the 1994 Washington and Lee Open.

 

The Washington and Lee University
ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

