WINTER 1992

TNE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY’ALUN@NA

Nera eA)

p
ae

e

 

 

 

 

 

FROM THE ALUMNI PRESIDENT

 

 

 

Dear Alumni:

I believe that the most
important asset of our Uni-
versity is a superior aca-
demic program that contin-
ues to train young minds
in the small classes that
distinguish W&L. Presi-
dent John Wilson, Dean of the College John Elrod,
and Dean of the School of Law Randy Bezanson are
the strong intellectual leaders of our academic mis-
sion. Under their guidance our curriculum has been
strengthened and broadened to keep pace with the
issues that will confront our graduates.

Before considering the new, what about the old?
History, English, Politics and other traditional ele-
ments of the liberal arts education which all of us
received remain strong and popular courses. W&L
continues a tradition of a feaching faculty. Scholarly
research and publishing are supported, but not at the
expense of what happens in the classroom. Finally, class
is still a participatory exercise, quite unlike larger institu-
tions where students can avoid interaction. Space will
permit me to mention only some of the newer course
offerings.

A new major has been created in neuroscience, an
interdisciplinary field that studies the brain through
the areas of chemistry, biology, and physics. Almost
300 students are enrolled in 12 neuroscience courses.

Cognitive science involves the psychology, com-
puter science, and philosophy departments. It is de-
voted to an understanding of the mind through com-
putational models that will enable us to understand
how humans reason and think.

Biochemistry and molecular biology draw stu-
dents and faculty together from the departments of
chemistry and biology. Quantum theory is taught by
members of the chemistry and physics departments.
Students majoring in environmental studies in the
department of geology are required to take courses not
only in geology, but also in biology and chemistry.

In short, the sciences are flourishing on campus,
albeit in vastly outdated buildings. One of the highest
priorities of our capital campaign is the substantial
renovation of Parmly and Howe and the construction
of a new building that will adjoin those two, a step that
will give us modern facilities that complement these
exciting courses.

Our oldest interdisciplinary major is East Asian
Studies. Eight faculty members from seven depart-
ments teach in this one program. Students concentrate
on either Japan or China, and many students in this

 

program participate in one of the three exchange
programs with universities in those two countries.
This year, 19 students are majoring in East Asian
Studies, and 176 students are enrolled in 16 courses.

Russian Studies is a new interdisciplinary major
that includes an opportunity to study a full year at a
University in the Commonwealth of Independent
States. Eleven students have declared Russian Stud-
ies as their major, and over 100 students are enrolled in
eight courses. The East Asian and Russian Studies
programs have been supported in recent years by
generous grants from the Pew and Andrew Mellon
foundations.

A new seminar with a changing annual theme has
been developed between the Commerce School and
the School of Law. This year, the all-too-relevant title
of the course is “Corporate Restructuring and Bank-
ruptcy.” Six undergraduates and six law students are
enrolled in this exciting seminar, which brings a wide
array of corporate executives and lawyers to stay on
campus during the seminar.

Also benefitting the School of Law is a five-year
grant from the Creswell Foundation to establish a new
international law program. This program includes
library expansion, summer fellowships, research, and
international environmental research. There has been
an overwhelming response from governmental, cor-
porate, and non-profit institutions, thereby providing
our law students with the best kind of problems on
which to develop their legal reasoning: real ones.

Dean Bezanson is committed to the development
of legal writing skills as a component of every course,
not just the traditional first-year-class approach. Our
students are learning to write not as a discrete task
independent of legal analysis, but as a natural compo-
nent of it. The student-faculty ratio is among the top
five in the country and we hope to become No. 1.

The Virginia Capital Case Clearinghouse course
depends entirely on inquiries from defense attorneys
whoseek assistance in connection with specific capital
cases. Regardless of personal opinions about the pros
and cons of the death penalty, this is excellent training
in constitutional research and writing.

Some of my former professors may feel a strong
sense of irony that my own enthusiasm for the class-
rooms of Lexington is so much stronger now than it
was when I wasa student! Be thatas it may, Iam proud
to be acheerleader for the broad, challenging and vital
teaching function which remains a hallmark of Wash-
ington and Lee.

Waller T. Dudley, ’74, ’79L
President, W&L Alumni Association

 

 

CONTENTS

VOLUME 67, NUMBER 4, WINTER 1992

FEATURES

2 Letters
6 Preserving the W&L Experience

Rector A. Stevens Miles Jr., 51, relates the importance of the capital campaign to the University's
Suture. Also: Leadership gifts blaze the campaign trail.

8 What Price Paprika—or Ylang- Ylang Oil?
Billy Brown, ’82, knows where the spices, essential oils, and concentrates grow—and he travels
around the world to find them.

12 W&L Professors: The Foreign Students

Three faculty members’ sabbaticals to the mysterious Far East bring an exciting perspective back to
the W&L classroom. Also: Winston Davis, the new Jessie Ball duPont Professor of Religion.

14 It’s My Party, and I’ll Campaign If I Want To

Garrett Moseley (R-'88), and Tom Eisenhauer (D-'93), dropped everything they were doing to work
Sor the Bush and Clinton campaigns. There was one winner, one loser, and no regrets. Also: Cable
Nine—the place to turn for election night coverage in Lexington.

38 The Generals’ Report

With a big boost from younger players, a fall sports season full of unexpected success had many
observers looking down the road to the youngsters’ continued improvement.

GAZETTE CLASS NOTES
22 Homecoming 42 Class Notes
24 Hall of Fame 50 Marriages
28 The Coat of Arms 52 __— Births
31 Bookshelf 52 In Memoriam
32 Law News
33. Alumni News
Washington and Lee Directory
On the cover:
Puce Ori: 8) 468 Winter on the Washington and Lee campus.
Sinai near sg Photo by Patrick Hinely

News Orrice: (703) 463-8460
Sports INFORMATION OrFice: (703) 463-8676
W&L Sports Horuine: (703) 463-8998

 

 

2 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

L_E 7 aes

Anunwanted animal

EDITOR:

I was as surprised as the 4,000 lacrosse
fans and the 1982 North Carolina
coaching staff and team were on that
particular Saturday afternoon 10 years ago
to see an article highlighting the Armadillo
(W&L, Summer 1992). I was among many
dedicated W&L lacrosse fans in the
stands that day expecting to witness the
competition between two richly talented
teams. The intensity of the game was
escalated to an even higher plateau since
many of the athletes had played together
on the same high school teams.

At the sound of the customary
whistle, the two squads faced one another
with the Generals boasting current and
soon-to-be All-Americans and the Tar
Heels holding a No. 1 ranking in the
national poll. A home field advantage and
the notoriously vociferous undergrad-
uates—which proved to be tremendous
assets over the years—were both present
for the Generals. When the “Armadillo”
formation became a quick reality
following the faceoff, the crowd watched
in abject disbelief. It was the first time I
ever, and hope to ever, hear W&L fans
boo their own team.

After the faces of anger and
embarrassment dissipated in the stands,
sincere apologies were extended to Tar
Heel supporters by many W&L loyalists.
Then, in true W&L fashion, the crowd
supported the players throughout the
balance of the game, regardless of the
game plan. As the final whistle blew,
most seemed to be relieved that it was
over, preferring not to comment on the
Armadillo. But those who did must have
wondered whether anyone would have
considered it a legitimate victory if the
Generals had won by utilizing the
Armadillo. Could the W&L athletes have
defeated the top-rated Tar Heels that
given Saturday afternoon, straight up?
W&L had done it plenty of times before,
and 4,000 people were there to see if they

could do it again. Isn’t that the essence
of competition?

Some of the most memorable and
great moments in the history of sports
have been the result of the upset. The
100-to-1 shot Baltimore Orioles sweeping
the Dodgers in the 1966 World Series, the
Amazin’ Mets in 1969, the New York Jets
defeating the heavily favored Baltimore
Colts in Super Bowl III, and, of course, the
pin-striped W&L lacrosse team upsetting
No. 1-seeded Johns Hopkins in the first
round of the 1975 NCAA ‘Tournament.

This last achievement would make
an outstanding tribute and would capture
the spirit of W&L’s deep-rooted tradition,
as opposed to an animal not indigenous to
Lexington, Va.

Geoffrey C. Wood, 83 _
Severna Park, Md.

+
Analternatrve

EDITOR:

Sunday, June 28, 1992, I marched in
my first Gay & Lesbian Pride Parade, in —
West Hollywood, Calif. For decades, I —
was a spectator at this event. Last year, I
became a participant. I walked out of the
shadow of my denial and marched into
the sunlight of my pride.

While this event will not be one that
will be recorded in any historical records
or even be a footnote in the W&L alumni
records, it did bring back memories and
remembrances.

In the fall of 1949, I entered W&L as
a freshman. At that time, there was an
incoming freshman for whom rumors
circulated that he was a “homo,”
“fruitcake,” “queer,” etc. People giggled
at the mere mention of his name. He
became the brunt of many cruel jokes. I
do not remember his name. I regret that
I did not come to know him. He took his
own life in the confines of his dorm room
before the end of the first semester. ‘There
was no memorial service. I do not believe

 

that an obituary was published. How
cruel. How sad. But for the grace of my
higher power, his end could well have
been mine.

About 12 years ago, I started to
participate in various gay and lesbian social
and business organizations. ‘Through this
participation, | came to admire and respect
the honesty of the dedication of their
members. I gained an appreciation of the
unique and significant contributions
lesbian and gay organizations make both
to their own communities and the
community at large.

With their love, understanding, and
support, I acquired the willingness to build
my self-esteem as a gay individual. Next
came the courage not only to accept the
fact that “It’s OK” to be gay, but also the
courage to know and accept within my
heart and mind that it is right—to be
proud—to be gay.

I do not know what gay and lesbian
organizations exist at W&L. If there are
any, their existence does not appear to be
news fit to print in the alumni magazine.
I would hope that faculty, staff, and
affiliated organizations of W&L and the
fraternities would encourage and support
the development of gay and lesbian
organizations.

If it does not already exist, there
should be established a structure for
students, faculty, staff, and alumni to
confront their own homophobia by
providing sensitivity training regarding
gay and lesbian lifestyles. ‘They have
nothing to fear but their own internal fear,
which is based upon False Evidence
Appearing Real.

For those students locked in the closet
of their own internalized fear, guilt, shame,
and denial about being gay or lesbian, a
support structure should be put in place
for them to discuss their feelings, begin to
accept their sexuality, and respect and
take pride in themselves. Life is given to
us once. We are all at some fault if we let
another human being take his or her own
life or continue to live in fear of who they

wETTeas

are because they have not been provided
with an alternative means of support to
sustain, nourish, and enrich their lives.

The establishment of a W&L Gay
and Lesbian Alumni Association would
goa long way to providing the foundation
upon which to achieve the above goals
and much more. Privacy would be pro-
tected for those alumni who did not want
their names to be known.

For those within and without the gay
and lesbian community who are frozen in
the ice of their own indifference as to the
worth, needs, and contributions of gays
and lesbians, as well as those who wrap
themselves in a clerical cloth and speak
false truths as justification tocondemn us,
and those with their own hidden agendas
for us, let them be reminded of what the
immortal Dante taught us: “The sins of
the cold-blooded and the sins of the warm-
hearted are measured ona differentscale.”

Alan “Hap” Weber, ’53
West Hollywood, Calif.

EDITOR’S NOTE: Waller T. Dudley, ’74,
’79L, president of the WSL Alumni
Association responds:

“In the past, other subgroups of the
Washington and Lee alumni body sought to
form groups separate from the WEL Alumni
Association. In 1980, the Alumni Board
passed a resolution encouraging alumni to
participate in all alumni and chapter activities
within the context of one and only one alumni
association.

“The Washington and Lee Alumni
Association was established in 1910 ‘to keep
the bond between Washington and Lee
University and her alumni close and
continuous.’ That purpose is stated in the
association’s bylaws and remains at the heart
of all alumni programming.

“With approximately 18,000 alumni in
&2 chapters scattered across the country, the task
of keeping the bond between the University and
its alumni 1s a difficult one. The current
alumni board of directors believes strongly that
the best way to keep that bond strong is through
one cohesive alumni association, not through

a collection of subgroups based on experiences
as students or on professional and personal
experiences as alumni. Indeed, the one thing
all alumni have in common is that we attended
Washington and Lee. While the alumni board
recognizes the legitimate right or preference of
any group of alumni to gather outside the
parameters of “official” alumni programming
for personal and professional interaction
(fraternities and sororities come immediately
to mind), it 1s our firm opinion that the best
interests of the University and its alumni are
served by one alumni association.

“The WEL Alumni Association ts open
to all alumni without discrimination.”

[In September, Sean Bugg, ’89,
announced the formation of the Gay and
Lesbian Alliance (GALA), an independent
support group for gay and lesbian students and
alumni at Washington and Lee. The mailing
address is GALA, P.O. Box 18906,
Washington, DC 20036.]

+

Stephenson: A memory

EDITOR:

A bridge washed out the other day
when I read, with sadness, the obituary of
Professor B.S. Stephenson (W&L, Fall
1992). For me, the span which “Steve”
supported was a memory connection with
the warm, courteous, and cultural parts of
my years as a W&L undergraduate.
Steve made me smile when I felt
otherwise. His marvellous enjoyment of
good music revitalized an earlier interest
in me. He reminded me of certain
obligations that go with maturity. His
character, in life and now afterwards,
represents to me an eliciting of qualities—
almost impossible to describe with
precision—that remain a hallmark of the
W&L experience. I will miss his physical
presence very much. That which he
conveyed remains.

Jim Applebaum, ’62
Silver Spring, Md.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 3

RZTTERS

 

a

# Ox
b re F
x a « a
. Pe ae ‘ 5
b A ee ee A eee
fel ori et
* ia

h nn

Fa : ce a)

as
os < re
‘
iy
®
-
Rd $
4h
7
-.
3
|
:
-
a
e

 

 

“Doc” Shillington poses with Teri Snyder, ’91, in a 1989 photo.

In Memory of the Fifth Angel

EDITOR:

How does one describe Fifth Angel
Punch—or better still, the mind-altering
effects of one too many glasses of this truly
awful concoction, a concoction only
a creative, mad chemist could conjure up.
To list the ingredients is easy, as the
creator gave me the recipe many years
ago, after one of his famous graduation
lawn parties. However, the list of
ingredients that made up Dr. James Keith
Shillington (see /n Memoriam) is far more
complex and certainly cannot be
reproduced as easily. Certainly, Dr.
Shillington had mind-altering effects on
those thousands he taught, but his
influence on “his boys” went far beyond
the classroom and the lab. He was able to
see the potential in a student, when he or
she did notsee itin himself or herself, and,
by mixing the right ingredients, he would
mold and develop students to their fullest
whiling their respect and lasting
friendship.

The walls of his kitchen were a
testimony to the man known simply as
“Doc.” They were covered with photos
of former students, their families, and
articles relative to their activities. My son

4 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

told me, “Mom, you know Doc keeps up
with all of them. He knows where each
one is and what he is doing.” ‘Teacher,
mentor, and friend—whata gift he gave to
those he taught. Such devotion to his craft
and love for his students will have lasting
effects on all touched by him. W&L was
fortunate to have had him, as was my son.
Doc told me once that he recalled I
made a pretty fair pound cake. Well, I
recall that he took my son and saw potential
in him and developed it. Not only did he
teach him chemistry, but love of books,
art, theater, and music. He guided and
counseled himand becamea valued friend
to all of us, a friend we shall surely miss.
Unable to attend his services, I made
a batch of Fifth Angel Punch. Somehow it
seemed appropriate. Doc’s list of
ingredients included limeade, bourbon,
dry sherry, vodka, iced tea, and soda water,
and the final admonition “pray for the
dying.”
Well, Doc, I will surely pray for you,
for I know you must be the Fifth Angel.
Kent S. Rowe
(wife of Joseph F. Jr., °55;
mother of Joseph F. III, *89)
Hampton, Va.

More Doc

EDITOR:

I was one of the thousands of students
James K. Shillington taught organic
chemistry to at Washington and Lee. |
was one of the hundreds he befriended
and was invited regularly to his eclectic
little house in the valley for dinner and
drinks. I was one of the dozens of former
students who kept in touch with him on
a regular basis over the years. Doc touched
my life in the deepest of ways. I have no
richer memories than those that I have
of him.

He was the cackling, shaking man
wearing the “Old Fart” hat and six-foot tie
who was hauled out at Homecoming
games to announce and kiss the
Homecoming queens and make some,
quite literally, cry. He was the huge,
ancient, deranged bird, sitting “rat cheer”
in the chem lab, his shock of white hair
sticking straight up in the air, his voice
alternately biting at students or breaking
off into nostalgic Broadway show tunes.
He was the one who, clad in swimming
trunks, would flop backwards into the
pool, float around on his back, then climb
shakily out with the use of a ladder and a
helping hand. He was the one around
whom the wonderful chaos of the house
in the valley swirled.

“Won’t you come for dinner and
drinks?”

We used to converge on the red house
with its pee-stream, its Christmas lights
strung in the trees, its yellow porch swing
and dazzling array of potted flowers and
plants, its squeaky screen door that was
always unlocked and chimed a cow bell
when you went through it. The house
with the smell of soup des garbage, the
Fightin’ Irish shoestring/light switch, the
hanging pterodactyls, gold Godiva
chocolate boxes, assorted Christmas
bulbs, and papier-mache cherubs. ‘There
was art covering every inch of its walls and
even its ceilings, the living fireplace full

 

 

of plants, the divan beside the stool
cradling the black phone and behind the
coffee table heaped with newspapers and
magazines, the stereo with the evolving
opera-to-rock album collection, the
cement dragons and Buddhas, the wooden
St. Francis, the grandfather clock chiming
the wrong time, the library full of
leatherbound volumes, more artwork
lining the floors, multi-colored lab notes
strewn across the cluttered desk, and a
host of other oddities here, there, and
everywhere. This was Doc’s world. Every
time you visited, you discovered
something new.

Nowhere did Doc’s personality
emerge more than in his kitchen. He
would sit in his director’s chair and manage
the dinner as if it were some type
of colorful, tasty, sometimes bizarre lab.
Everything had an order to it, from the
way the pots and pans were arranged in
the cupboards to the way you made bobby
tonics, cheesebread, rice, chicken, new
potato salad, and oiled cucumbers. ‘The
piéce de résistance was the soup des gar-
bage. All leftovers went into it. It was
thick and revolting to look at after four or
five days’ simmering, but its taste was
unmatched. ‘Three students were average
at dinner, seven nights a week. We would
cook and listen to Pink Floyd or Billie
Holiday, depending on the mood. Doc
loved nothing more than these nights of
entertainment and entertaining. We were
more than his students and his friends. We
were his life. And in his heart, we were his
children, his family.

I was lucky enough to spend a lot of
time alone with him in those days. On the
porch, potting plants, on the swing, wiling
away the evenings, in the living room,
listening to Brahms and Mozart, Doc
imparted to me his lessons of life and
quiet humorous wisdom. My richest
memories of him lay within the folds of
those conversations. I graduated and
moved away. Years passed but we retained
that vital link we had developed at the
house in the valley. I regularly received

il; Ec! t eae

two-in-the-morning phone calls and
placed quite a few myself.

“Hey, Doc. What’s up?”

“Not I.”

“How are you feeling?”

“Well, ...”

He would speak about his aches and
pains, his frequent trips to the hospital and
the ghastly things they did to him there,
how his body was falling apart in front of
his own cataract-infested eyes, and how
much of a mess it all was. It was an
annoyance sometimes to receive his calls,
but it was not pity that kept me on the line.
It was not out of respect for the man who
had helped shape my life. It was not the
memories. They were fading. I kept up
the relationship because he meant a great
deal to me. He had become one of my
closest friends.

Doc might have been falling apart
physically, but his mind was certainly
completely intact. In the wee hours of the
morning, he would relate his dreams, his
visions, his ideas, the inspiring color of his
magnificent imagination. At times, we
would even cry and huddle together
against the coldness of this sometimes
cruel world. No one could have asked for
a friend with more compassion, more
depth, or more humility than James K.
Shillington.

Doc, I miss you.

James Corey, *89
Monterey, Calif.

+

Likeson, likefather
EDITOR:

It was with great interest that I read
the article by Evan Atkins, “When W&L
Was in the Army” (W@ZL, Fall 1992). I was a
student at W&L when Pearl Harbor was
attacked in December 1941. I continued
attending class through the summer of
1942 and graduated in January 1943.
Immediately thereafter, I entered the

Army Air Corps, married my college
sweetheart, trained at various bases for a
year, and in 1944 went overseas as a
navigator with the 8th Air Force, where I
flew 30 missions over Germany.

In the meantime, my father, who had
served in the Navy at age 20 during World
War I, became inspired with patriotic
fervor and volunteered to enter the School
for Special Services in 1943. He was
accepted and the first place he was sent
for training was to W&L. I believe that
this may be the first time in which a father
followed a son as a student at W&L!

The article brought back vivid
memories of his training at W&L and of
a number of famous names who were also
at the school during that period. My father
and I swapped W&L stories during that
time, until I went overseas. He remained
in the service and came out as a captain
in Special Services, having served
primarily at Camp Mackall and at Fort
Bragg in North Carolina. He and I both
came out of the service about the same
time in 1945.

Thank you for bringing back the
memories of those days and the fact that
father followed son at W&L about 50
years ago.

Edwin A. Zelnicker Jr., °43
Mobile, Ala.

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 5

 

 

Preserving the

W&L Experience

 

A Letter to Washington and Lee Alumni from
Rector A. Stevens Miles Jr., 51

 

ince becoming rector
of W&L’s Board of ‘Trustees two
years ago, I have gained aclearer
sense of the nature of our great
University. I have witnessed the
commitment of our president
and his staff, the strength of our
faculty and deans, and the ex-
traordinary dedication of many
alumni who serve in so many
ways. | have a greater appreciation
for our uniqueness: our unwa-
vering focus on the liberal arts
education, our insistence that
our teachers actually be teach-
ers, and our conservative fiscal
policy. I have seen firsthand the
effectiveness of our system of
student self-government, and
the determination of our adminis-
tration and faculty to let it work.
Wecontinue torespectthe policy
of allowing students to decide
what constitutes honorable be-
havior and to make judgments
regarding possible violations,
and, finally, somehow, through
it all, we are able to balance ex-
ceptionally rigorous academic
demands with an active social
environment. Believe me, this is
truly a special place!

I am also impressed by what

others think of us. In business, we
had a saying that, in the final analysis, the
marketplace decides whether or not you
are good. What does the marketplace
think of Washington and Lee? Well, first
of all, we had more than 3,300 applica-

6 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

tions for 400 places in this year’s fresh-
man class. In the School of Law, the
numbers were 1,780 applications for 120
places. This certainly indicates the popu-
larity and reputation of our school with
prospective students. These figures are
even more impressive when you con-
sider that there is a demographic dip in
college-age students now and that many
of our peer institutions are experiencing

a decline in applications. An-
other indication of the respect
we have is our standing at No.
22 among the top 25 national
liberal arts colleges, according
to U.S. News © World Report.
‘These impressive statistics are
no reason to become compla-
cent, however.

One of the criteria used
by U.S. News is that of
financial resources. This

refers to the size of endowment
per student and other sources of
outside financial assistance.
W&L ranks 49th in this impor-
tant area. Our endowment per
student stands at $53,000, well
below that of many schools with
far less impressive credentials
than ours. Further, only 36 per-
cent of our alumni contribute to
the Annual Fund, compared,
for example, with Williams at
62 percent and Davidson at 52
percent. The giving of many
individual classes at W&L does
exceed the 50-percent level, but
many others do not. Our goal
must be to get the University above the
50-percent level in the next five years
and then to keep it there.

Our Capital Campaign has as
its goal to raise $127 million by

1996. As you have heard, these funds
will be used to complete the Fraternity

Soe, te

a ee

 

ies i eee ek ae , *>

6 te i

‘
‘
3

 

LEADERSHIP GIFTS
BLAZE CAMPAIGN TRAIL

ON ‘THE
SHOULDERS
or GIANTS

A s the Campaign for Washington and Lee marches
past the halfway mark, a number of recent leadership gifts
illustrate the importance of the objectives of the $127 million campaign.

W. Franklin Barron Jr.,’52, has established the Willie and Frank Barron
Scholarship with a $50,000 gift to the campaign. He also pledged an additional
$59,000 toward the new complex for W&L’s science programs.

Barron’s grandfather founded the Rome Coca-Cola Bottling Co. at the turn
of the century, and it remained in the family until Barron sold the business to the
Coca-Cola Enterprise Co. in 1987. Barron’s father, Frank Sr., was a 1919 graduate
of W&L.

Funds for a need-based undergraduate scholarship also have been provided by
Frank Batten, who received an honorary degree from W&L in 1989. A graduate of
the University of Virginia and Harvard Business School, Batten is chairman of the
board of Landmark Communications.

Reginald K. Brack, ’59, chairman and CEO of the Time Inc. Magazine Co.,
has made a gift to the School of Commerce Executive-in-Residence program. A
goal of $500,000 has been set for that program, which will bring business leaders
such as Brack into the classroom. Brack is a member of the New York campaign
committee, which hopes to raise $3.5 million.

Eugene L. Pearce, 65, has made an unrestricted $100,000 gift to the cam-
paign. Pearce is a senior vice president of INVESCO MIM, an international
investment counseling firm in Atlanta. He is a vice chairman of the Georgia
campaign committee, which is seeking to raise $3.25 million for W&L.

Finally, Raymond D. Smith Jr., ’55, has made a $200,000 commitment to the
campaign to help create a Smith family scholarship at W&L. Smith’s father, the
late Raymond D. Smith, graduated from the University in 1922, while his
grandfather was Henry Louis Smith, president of the University from 1912 to 1929.
Smith is a managing director with Bankers Trust Co. and he is a member of the
New York campaign committee.

Through Dec. 14, 111 leadership gifts of $100,000 or more have raised nearly
$53 million for the Campaign for Washington and Lee. As of that date, the
campaign has raised more than $69.1 million.

“These leadership gifts have been a focus of our efforts ever since we began
planning the campaign,” said national chairman H.F. “Gerry” Lenfest, ’53. “It is
essential to our success that we receive significant support from our alumni and

friends at the six-figure level and beyond.”

 

 

 

 

ESPON ET Ss BP) RO a, LL OR er ee eee ee Oe ee i,

|
. .
~  WhatPricePaprika— |
|

| A?

or Ylang-YlangOw:

| Billy Brown, ’82, Knows Where

| the Spices, Oils, and Concentrates Grow

| BY WILLIAM COCKE, ‘82

 

| sk Billy Brown, ’82, about
what business he’s in, and
he'll tell you that it’s, well,

the oldest business in the world.

He means the spice trade, of course.
As president of Beacon, Ltd., Brown
oversees the day-to-day operations of one of the

2 ES To a Oe

country’s oldest agencies and brokerage firms
involved in essential oils, spices and botanicals,
aromatic chemicals, and juice concentrates. Now,
if that sounds a little dry, just remember that
without Brown, your shampoo might not smell so
terrific, and your wintergreen chewing gum might
very likely lose its flavor on the bedpost overnight.
Brown can quote you the price of everything
from East Indian sandalwood oil (about $135 per
kilo) to Spanish paprika (around 70 cents a pound).
And if you’re interested in obtaining more than a
| few drops of beaver castoreum or perhaps a cup or
two of ylang-ylang oil, he’s the man to call. He’s

Ol TL Sil ON IG A ME BOT

Wo ae PS

 

also well-versed in the arcane terminology of the
business. Enfleurage, maceration, and solvent
extraction are all part of everyday discourse. He

 

(SAO © OSI TE OR Re
Paprika, seasoning, even cough drops —Brown’s business affects them all.

 

 

ad SMT, Ede Te OM a a > tie _ fo TEA A SO OE ee Le a Re

 

8 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

can spot the difference between a
terpene and a ketone as quick as any
chemist, and he also can tell you more
than you'll ever want to know about
this year’s peppermint and spearmint
crops in Oregon.

These days, the world-traveling
Brown is an importer of record, and most
of the products he imports end up in your
kitchen cabinets more often than not.

Ever since that first an-

cient gourmand wrapped his
mammoth steak in some good-
smelling leaves he found by

the waterhole or made himself a pine
knot torch to see by, mankind has been
aware that certain naturally occurring
substances are pleasing to the palate or
nose, or contain useful restorative,
preservative, or fixative properties.

Whole empires were built and
destroyed by the desire for control of
substances like pepper, nutmeg,
cinnamon, and ginger. The frankin-
cense and myrrh of the Bible, still used
today in the perfume industry, are gum
resins found primarily in Saudi Arabia.
Laying siege to Rome in 410 A.D.,
Alaric the Visigoth demanded 3,000
pounds of pepper as ransom.

“There is a story that in the 17th
century, the Dutch, in order to secure
control of the mace and nutmeg found
on the Banda Islands in the Indonesian
archipelago, rounded up and killed
most of the 15,000 inhabitants there,”
Brown relates, in a tone as professorial
as it is business-wise.

Given such a history, you might
assume that the modern day trade in
essential oils, spices, and botanicals is
full of rogues, pirates, and bloodthirsty
merchantmen. Well, Brown is no Alaric
the Visigoth (he dresses better, for one
thing), and his small piece of the spice
empire is located not in Rome or the
Bandas, but in Murray Hill, N.J., where
there is little threat of a raid.

Beacon, Ltd., as the business will
be known come February, is the
successor company to E.L. Scott & Co.,

 

peers
a
ae
ae
a
Lae «
~*
€ aoa
Bs
Pi
ee
das
ae a
Ae
_
ia
no

 

 

 

 

which was founded in 1916. E.L. Scott
started out primarily in essential oils,
but over the years, it expanded into
spices and botanicals, aromatic chemi-
cals, fruit juice concentrates, and
essences. In 1983, the company opened
a Florida office in order to specialize
further in concentrates and citrus oils.

Brown, along with his father and
uncle, had been looking for some time
for an Opportunity to invest in an inter-
national trading company with the right
credentials.

“E.L Scott fit the bill perfectly,”
Brown remembers. “It was well-
established and well-respected within
the industry and was more diversified
than most of its competitors.”

Brown began working in the
Florida office in December 1990 with
the idea of “learning his juices” before
moving to the New Jersey headquarters
early last year. For months before begin-
ning, he immersed himself in the in-
dustry, reading everything he could find.

“That helped somewhat, but it was
still trial by fire,” he remembers of
those first few months on the job. “It’s
one thing knowing it all on paper—
actually breaking into such a special-
ized industry is another.” His remedy?

Try not to look lost and don’t be afraid
to ask a lot of questions.

After graduating from W&L in
1982 with a degree in European history
and German, Brown worked exten-
sively in the securities and commodities
business, first in London, and later in
New York and Washington. He soon
tired of the abstractions, the faceless
transactions that made up much of the
commodities business, and became
increasingly interested in concentrating
on international trade and the trading of
specialty agricultural products.

“IT wanted to be involved in some-
thing tangible, something you could
smell and feel and see and taste,” he
says. “You might say that this business
is about as tangible as you can get.”

So where does Brown’s
business fit in the overall
production process? Beacon,
Ltd., serves as an exclusive

agent or broker representing a supplier’s
interest in a defined territory, usually
the United States.

“We’re known as importers of
record, ” Brown explains. “Once we
negotiate purchase of the raw material
and subsequently arrange shipment
into this country, we take actual title to
the goods. ‘These goods must, of course,
clear customs and pass the proper FDA
inspections. ‘The products, which have
been previously contracted for, are then
delivered to the end-user. We’re the
classic middlemen.”

Beacon, Ltd., attempts to secure a
number of sources of a particular pro-
duct in a certain region, and then acts as
the source’s exclusive marketer of the
product in an area, like the United
States. “In effect, we become a branch
office in the United States for a foreign
producer,” he says. The end-users he
sells to are for the most part corporate
giants and household names like Coca-
Cola Foods, Procter and Gamble,
Ardmore Farms (a division of Quaker
Oats), International Flavors and

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

Fragrances, Baltimore Spices, and
McCormick.

Most of Brown’s contact is with the
supply side of things, and he prefers it
that way. As a middleman, he sees
himself as a conduit, a relay for accurate
and reliable information between the
producer and the end-user. ‘This
interaction helps foster an important
bond between the supplier, the
importer, and the customer.

“Since this is still very much a
people-oriented business, it’s important
to have a one-on-one relationship at the
source,” Brown explains. “Equally
important, however, is good communi-
cation and proper conveyance of market
information to the potential buyer.”

Given the unpredictable nature of
most agriculture, Brown emphasizes
that the establishment of long-term
business relationships is a fundamental
part of his job. For example, E.L. Scott
(and now Beacon) has been the exclu-
sive agent for a Greensboro, N.C., com-
pany in the worldwide sales of its Vir-
ginia cedarwood oil since 1916. Brown’s
company also has enjoyed exclusive
agent status for Mexican lime oil sales
in the United States since 1943, for
Spanish essential oils and aromatic che-
micals since 1970, and for Brazilian Con-
cord grape juice concentrate since 1984.

He says that, on the whole, “most
suppliers tend to be forthright, old-
school types who tell it like it is. Even
though we work on a performance-
written, contractual basis, a direct look
in the eye and a firm handshake mean a
great deal in our business.”

There are only a handful of com-
panies in the United States like Beacon,
Ltd., who specialize in the big three:
essential oils, juice concentrates, and
spices. Entry into the industry is diffi-
cult, and most existing companies tend
to be family-run. For the middleman,
who is often caught between two diverse
(and not always friendly) groups, it pays
to be as accommodating as possible.

“Although acting on an honorable
basis is second nature to a W&L man,”
Brown explains, “it makes good busi-
ness sense, as well.”

10 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

According to a recent
U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture circular on the essential
oil trade, 1991 exports totaled

$156.5 million and imports accounted
for $154.5 million. Peppermint oil was
the single largest import, while lemon
and lime oils had a large share of the
market, as well.

Essential oils are among the oldest
known sources of natural flavorings and

 

 

 

 

“IN 1492, COLUMBUS

MIGHT HAVE SAILED

| THE OCEAN BLUE,”

| BROWN SAYS, “BUT IN
1992, 1 FLEW AIR INDIA,

MOST LIKELY THROUGH

| IRAQI AIR SPACE, WITH

TWO OR THREE LOST
BAGS, AND A HORRIBLE

CASE OF JET LAG.”

 

 

 

 

fragrances. They are obtained from raw
materials by steam distillation, me-
chanical pressing processes, or solvent
extraction. Essential oils can be found
anywhere in the cellular structure of
the plant—in the leaves, bark, roots,
flowers, seeds, or fruits.

They are also inextricably linked
with most people’s day-to-day lives.
These oils are widely used in perfume,
cosmetics, and pharmaceuticals, as well
as flavorings for foods and soft drinks.
For example, mint oils are used in
chewing gum, toothpaste, mouthwash,
and candy. Citrus oils are used in enor-

a

mous quantities by the soft drink industry,

Brown says that finding the right
oils and spices at the right prices is
especially difficult, and not just
because of the fact that less than seven
percent of the 3,000 identifiable
essential oils are commercially grown.

“There are wide variations in
quality, quantity, availability—you
name it,” he says. “Moroccan paprika
may be cheaper than Spanish, for
example, but will that price remain
stable? Is the quality as good? Will
political developments have an impact?”

Indeed, besides the amateur
chemist hat he has to wear in order to
understand his products, Brown has to
be somewhat of a political analyst, too.
The recent changes in the former
Eastern Bloc countries have Brown
shuffling as much as any mapmaker.

“Lots of traditional priorities are
shifting around in, say, the Polish and
Russian apple concentrate business,”
he says. “They used to sell average
quality, state-subsidized apple juice to
Austria and Germany. Now, with
privatization in the wings and a new-
found need to control production costs,
they want to establish their own direct
relationships with the United States.
The trouble is, they are short on money
and have no clear idea how to market
their product. Sure, there’s an opportu-
nity there, but they’re having to learn
almost everything from scratch.”

It often becomes necessary for
Brown to go where the action is—to
visit the growing area before, during,
and even after harvest. In a single year,
Brown traveled to Mexico, Brazil,
Argentina, Spain, Chile, Austria,
Hungary, Indonesia, Thailand, India,
Oregon, and Washington to meet the
growers and witness the production of,
among other things, apple juice, grape
juice, lemon and lime oil, paprika,
cinnamon bark oil, patchouli leaves,
various Indian essential oils, and mint.

“When people are willing to pay a
premium for the reliability of your
information, you must go to the
source—you need to have firsthand
knowledge of the product,” he says,

indicating the travel isn’t quite as
glamorous as it sounds. “In 1492, Colum-
bus might have sailed the ocean blue,
but in 1992, I flew Air India, most
likely through Iraqi air space,
with two or three lost
bags, and a horrible

case of jet lag.”

And as some of
Brown’s trip notes
reveal, lunch (espe-
cially in Indonesia)
can be no picnic
either:

“Buffet lunch
served—chicken
satays, rice (always
safe), big gourd with
straw drink, small sweet
bananas. ‘Degung’ music
played, then a performance
of local magic called ‘Debus’ from
West Java. Shocking! Husband/wife/
son team perform various dark acts.
Fantasy or fiction? Man opened up by
his wife massaging his neck and pulling
four live bats out of his mouth. This set
the tone to follow. Man continued to
smack big hammer with point on end,
piercing woman’s stomach. Incision
made on woman’s leg with large machete,
wound dressed immediately with some
dark Javanese potion. Difficult to watch.
Man cooks vegetables on fire in melon
on top of boy’s head. Boy stomps
heavily on cut glass, man eats three
light bulbs—all of it! Show ends with
many of the viewers unnerved, owner
of plantation apologizing.”

Dealing with the unusual is all in a
day’s work, Brown explains: “I know
that a lot of our customs may seem
strange to them, but maintaining the
right reaction to that particular bit of
entertainment may have been my
greatest challenge.”

In some ways, though,
traveling gets better each
time, Brown admits. Business

and personal relationships

 
 
 

100% NATURAL” °

GRAPE JUICE

grow, and when there’s a
face to attach to that voice on
the telephone,deals get made. And
there is always something to be learned.
Far from being daunted by the end-
less variables of the business, Brown
enjoys the daily challenges, and he finds it

 

ea ee ee a es

VES ae

 

 

 

 

 
   
  
  

an exciting time to be
involved in international
business. Having a W&L education

in his background has certainly helped.

“It’s like getting a liberal arts
education all over again,” he says.
“Besides the business angle, I need to
be at times a mad chemist, an amateur
linguist, and a quick read in history,
political science, and international rela-
tions. No two days are ever the same.”

Besides, harvesting of the apple
crop is due in Argentina, where autumn—
harvest season—comes as those in the
Northern Hemisphere are preparing for
spring.

“Let me tell you about the dif-
ference between Argentine Red Deli-
cious and Granny Smith apples,” Brown
begins. “It all has to do with the acidity...”

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE lI

 

 

 

 

W&L Professors:
The Foreign Students

 

THREE FACULTY MEMBERS’ SABBATICALS TO THE MYSTERIOUS
FAR EAST BRING AN EXCITING PERSPECTIVE BACK TO THE W&L CLASSROOM

BY KIMBERLY MARCOTT, “93

The F ortudden City was charming,
if cold. It ts fun to wander down
the stile alleys; there one can still
hear, if you strain a lit, the sound of
pattering feet as the palace eunuchs
went to and fro on their endless
errand of pleasing the Son of
Heaven. If you peep through closed
gates, you can glimpse unrestored
courtyards, where dry leaves rustle
in the December wind, the only
sound heard tn the frosty air of the

It sounds like something from a
Pearl S. Buck novel or even a sophisti-
cated travelogue, vivid in images and
stories of a strange land. Clearly, the
writer has a deep knowledge of what he
speaks, as well as an abiding passion for
relaying that knowledge to others.

But this excerpt isn’t from a book,
and its writer isn’t nearly so far away from

12 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Jeans researched democratic Chinese political

leader Zhang Junmai at Beijing University

his audience. It is from Professor Roger
Jeans’ sabbatical report to the Dean of the
College at Washingtonand Lee. And while
Jeans’ somewhat lyrical report might not
be typical in tone, the benefits he derived
from his sabbatical are. Sabbaticals,
whether they be halfway across the world
to the mysterious Far East or merely up
the interstate to the equally mysterious
Capitol Hill, provide W&L professors with
the opportunity to relay firsthand experi-
ences like these to their students, in sub-
jects as varied as art and economics. Pro-
fessors’ studies abroad impress students
as well. Many afternoons in front of the
Co-op, a student exclaims, “I was in my
professor’s office when the phone rang. It
was The Economist \”

A recent example of the value of
the sabbatical was in the area of W&L’s
landmark program in East Asian
Studies. Three professors tied to the
program—Jeans in history, Michael
Smitka in economics, and Joan O’Mara
in art—traveled abroad to work ona
variety of projects, all of which has
translated into exciting classrooms at
W&L this year.

A relatively new addition to the
Washington and Lee list of majors, the
East Asian Studies program is an
interdepartmental effort to educate
students about many aspects of a
culture much different from that of the
United States. It began in 1972, when
the late German professor B.S.
Stephenson suggested to Professor
Harold Hill, who spoke Chinese, and
Dean of the College William Pusey that
a course in Chinese be offered. Gradu-
ally, more talent in East Asian studies
emerged in the W&L faculty, and the
University developed an exchange
program with a number of universities
including Kansai Gaidai and Rikkyo in
Japan and Chung Chi in Hong Kong.
By 1977, the program had grown into an
interdepartmental major in the W&L
curriculum.

Essential for the program’s growth
is sending professors like Roger Jeans to
Asia to do research and experience the
culture firsthand. Jeans spent the
majority of his year as a visiting research
professor at the Henry M. Jackson
School of International Studies at the
University of Washington in Seattle.
During his time there, he edited a

recently published book of papers
collected during a conference held at
W&L in the fall of 1990. ‘The book is
titled Roads Not Taken: The Struggle of
Opposition Parnes in Twentieth-Century
China (see Bookshelf, page 31). He
dedicated the volume to Minor Rogers,
the late professor of religion at W&L
who was instrumental in the de-
velopment of W&L’s interdisciplinary
program in East Asian Studies.

Shortly after arriving in Seattle to
begin editing his book, Jeans received a
letter from Beijing asking him to present a
paper at a conference of the Chinese
Association for the Study of Modern
Culture. In addition to presenting his
paper, Jeans would have time to
continue his research on democratic
Chinese political leader Zhang Junmai
from original documents in the Beijing
University library. The irregularities of
the Chinese system, however, some-
times made scholarship difficult.

“| had just located the journal I
needed when they announced—at
11:15 a.m.!— that they were closing for

the day,” Jeans relates. Eventually

    
  

though, he was able to copy the
information he needed, which can only
be found at that library. In addition to
finding the article, Jeans’ time in
Beijing also yielded new professional
contacts vital to keeping up-to-date, and
allowed him to brush up on his Chinese
speaking skills.

Jeans noticed only a few changes
since an earlier visit ten years ago. For
one, he was surprised at how little atten-
tion he attracted as a foreigner. Jeans
believes that the Chinese are either
“used to seeing such ‘foreign guests’
now, or have been warned not to asso-
ciate with them in the wake of the June
1989 events.” For example, he says,
none of the Chinese he spoke with were
willing to talk about ‘Tiananmen Square.

hile Jeans studies democratic
politics of the Chinese Revolution,
Mike Smitka researches the cutting
edge of Japanese industry and finance.
He spent the 1991-92 school year as a
visiting professor at Rikkyo University

y
0

wy

in Tokyo. During his stay, he pursued
several research projects. He conducted
his most recognized work as part of an
international research project on the
Japanese auto industry.

Smitka wrote a paper following his
research, which predicted a recession
for the auto industry in Japan. The
paper has become a topic of wide interest
in economic circles, and is the focus of a
recent article in The Economist. Smitka’s
research indicates problems for Japan
associated with the rising value of the
yen, the decrease in cheap capital, and
the end of the practice of “just-in-time
delivery of small amounts of parts.” In
the article, Smitka’s predictions are
expressed this way: “Within ten years,
America’s deficit on cars will shrink to
‘insignificance.’ ”

Smitka also researched two other
projects while in ‘Tokyo. One was on the
difficulties surrounding land issues in
Japan, specifically the concept of selling
buildings separately from the land be-
neath them. “Only in Japan does there
appear to be a lack of a unified view of
real estate,” explains Smitka. His newest

ne A

Smitka worked on an international research project on the Japanese auto industry as a visiting professor at Rikkyo University in Tokyo.

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

O'Mara (right) studies the impact of Western presence in Japanese arts at the down of the industrial age.

research concerns the relationship
between Japanese law and economics.
Smitka’s research, on the automo-
tive industry particularly, earned both
him and Washington and Lee recogni-
tion from journalists and scholars. In
addition to the article in 7he Economist,
articles have appeared in 7he Japan Times
and Automotive News. Students, too, will
be touched by his time abroad. Interna-
tional economics requires being up-to-
date, and students will now have a pro-
fessor recently returned from a refresh-
ing dip in “the real world.” Smitka also
hopes to enlist students to help him with
his research and develop new spring
term seminars for East Asian Studies.

In addition to all that he
learned from his research, Smitka also
learned about the Japanese education
system from his two children, whom he
enrolled in ‘Tokyo schools. At first it was
very hard for them, because they spoke
no Japanese. In fact, his son learned to
read first in Japanese and only now is
learning to read in English. Soon,
through nightly homework assign-
ments and high expectations set in the
schools, the children caught up. The
largest difference between the Japanese

14 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

and U.S. education systems, notes
Smitka, is that in the Japanese system,
teachers assume that one parent
remains at home. Therefore, children
learn mostly from their parents, guided
by the curriculum of the schools.

ar removed from the economic
concerns of East Asian Studies, Profes-
sor of Art Joan O’Mara’s research in-
volves quieter pursuits. O’Mara spent
her last two summers in the historical
city of Kyoto, where modern industry
crowds the valleys and ancient and
modern temples grace the forested
mountains. She also took the opportu-
nity to travel to Nara, the ancient capital
City, to visit monasteries, and Nagasaki,
which O’Mara calls a place of “multiple
layers of history.” Nagasaki has particu-
lar importance to her since it was the
first Japanese city settled by Western
merchants and missionaries.

O’Mara’s studies trace the impact
of Western presence in Japanese arts at
the beginning of the industrial age. In
particular, she notes changes in the
practice of the tea ceremony and how it

 

developed with Jesuit influence. When
they first arrived in Japan, the Jesuits
learned the tea ceremony and used it as
a medium to reach the people. During
her second summer in Kyoto, O’Mara
collected implements of the tea cere-
mony. Her work on the tea ceremony
led to a seminar class at W&L devoted
to the study of its principles and how its
development reflects changes in
Japanese culture. “It’s organic,” she
says. “The classes and the summers’
work mutually reinforce each other.”

O’Mara also found time to pursue
research in another specialty, late
Japanese painting. Her work centers on
the art of a painter who also wrote
haiku, and she currently is studying the
relationship between the painting and
the poetry. While visiting many of the
museums integral to her research,
O’Mara took slides to expand the
Washington and Lee collection. In the
past two summers, she has brought back
more than 20 rolls of film.

‘The enhanced slide collection
benefits students directly, but even
more exciting is the scheduled spring
term trip to Japan, led by O’Mara. She’s
spent the past two summers preparing—

making contacts for tours and guest lec-
tures, scouting museums and temples,
and even playing travel agent and going
through the mundane chores of price-
checking. She plans to use Kyoto as a
base for the spring term trip, and then
make side trips from there to other sights
via the bullet train. O’Mara feels strongly
about such opportunities for under-
graduates since it was on such a trip that
she first fell in love with Japanese cul-
cure. The nature of Oriental art makes
travel to Asia desirable, too, because
Asian aesthetics make art a part of every-
day life and surroundings. And, of course,
Japan’s gardens, architecture, dishware,
dance, theater, and tea ceremony are
much easier to appreciate in person
than they are in books and pictures.

learly, then, the yield on faculty

leaves—for both W&L and its profes-
sors—is high. As Dean of the College
John Elrod explains, leaves are “one of
the most important investments W&L
makes.” Nearly 15 percent of the Wash-
ington and Lee faculty takes some sort
of leave each year. In order to keep the
curriculum current, W&L grants leaves
every five years instead of every seven,
which is the norm at other universities.

Keeping professors current in their
fields can be difficult at a school as
small and isolated as Washington and
Lee, but it is a priority. During leaves,
professors can reestablish ties with
colleagues, and Jeans adds that leaves
not only refresh the professors knowl-
edge of their topics, but also reenergizes
them for their work in the classroom.

“Too many 100-level lectures can
make you stale,” he says. “It is good for
professors to get away from W&L and
have a chance to pursue the subjects
they love. It reminds them why they
fell in love with history, or economics,
or art. And when they return refreshed,
they remember why they fell in love
with teaching.”

 

Asian Studies program. His death in 1991 left the Fejcemtemeespt Geblened. and <."

 

A MAJOR
REPLACEMENT
FOR MINOR ROGERS

 

It’s no easy task attracting top-notch

 

 

faculty to an institution. But it’s even

 

Davis is currently eee the > relationship between
gobanese ye soe). ?
faculty with more top-notch faculty. a 3 :

Such was the case with the sudden passing of Minor Rok in 1991. A leading
scholar in his fieldsRigers’ was inistrumental in the development of W&L’s lauded East

eh

more difficult trying to repla¢e top-notch

ae

    
  
  
  

 

it left W&L’s department of religion without a tan; :
dhism. Finding an exemplary replacement for Rogers mould |
it appears to have been met in the | person of Wins Davis, the n n
Professor of Religion. Davis hapa record which uniquely qualifies if es
and his presence at YS lends credence t to the Unive rsity’s lo 2
of continuing to developa teaching facul of the e n é ,
Coming to W&L from Southwestern University, Davis ho hols bs mong

plishments a National Endowment for the Humaniti

changing modernized Japan, two books, ss and dozens of

 
 

experience to his new post: Nena a ad poe

Davis is currently involved in audying the relationship between Japanese religion -
and society.. His work te on the modemmization of Japan and how the changes

in industrial production altered Buddhism. He also compares these patterns to those in

other nations undergoing industrial revolt nat . ul
study i is dffcut, Ke says, because “we can’t use

any 70"

faith. In Japan, religion is more a mattet of Ioine eee believing”
During winter term, Davis will offer a new coursey"Religion, Wealth, and Power,”

» Hanno

whey will compare these aspects ‘of society in the United States, United Kingdom, and

Japan. ‘The course isa. combination of subjects ta ‘Davis at Southwestern. The
research material for. es comes eee an at hat cea for the Ford
Foundation. yp a; é ue as oe

mm er, is etn his new

 

Davi who'c

the area,’ says the Jatetyown a Y)'n native. ree birgete Have a teen-age daughter and
son and give high sparks for the Rockbtidge e Cotinty school system. His one reservation
is an apparent “lack of international presence on campus,” but he has hopes that W&L,

particularly through the East Asian Studies p progratn, will soon broaden itself even
further to produce srauates most able to excel ina Shrifikiangs world.
-& aoe 7 —Kimberly Marcott, '93,

'
meattt

Pgereh™ i)
- ; Pa
1 a

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

It's My Party, and I'll
Campaign [fl Want To

GARRETT MOSELEY (R-’88), AND TOM EISENHAUER (D-’93), DROPPED EVERYTHING TO
WORK FORTHE BUSH AND CLINTON CAMPAIGNS. THERE WAS ONE WINNER, ONE LOSER, AND NO REGRETS.

In the climactic months leading up to November’s presidential election, the two of

 

them learned firsthand what it’s like to live, eat and breathe politics. And it’s not all

f Garrett Moseley, ’88, ran into Tom Eisenhauer, 93, chances are they’d talk politics. GARRETT MOSELEY, “88

TheQuick-Change Artist

sound bites and infomercials, although a lot of it is hot dogs and fax machines. F OTF ViceP. vesident Quayle

Moseley took a two-month leave of absence from his job with First Union Corp. in

A political campaigner’s life sound

Charlotte to work on the Advance team on campaign stops in 15 U.S. cities for Vice President

interesting to you? Well, how do last-

Quayle. “This meant planning everything from the arrival of Air Force Two to picking what hot- minute destination changes and flight

dog stand Quayle would stop at for lunch,” he says.

Eisenhauer, meanwhile, took a breather from the classroom to serve on the front line
of the Clinton-Gore campaign’s “rapid-response” team—the folks that made sure
that any anti-Clinton innuendo from the morning papers was answered
in time for the evening news.

We asked Moseley and Eisenhauer to share
their experiences with us in the follow-
ing first-person accounts. Inthe spirit
of Election Night (see accompany-
ing sidebar on Page 20), we’re letting
Moseley—whose candidate ran sec-
ond when all the votes were
counted—go first. Eisenhauer’s

story begins on Page 18.

16 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
  

delays ad infinitum sound? And how do

you feel about catching a
red-eye to be somewhere
for an 8 o'clock meeting
the next morning? And
does the idea of not remem-
bering your last meal
appeal to you? And if it
does, how do you feel
about hot dogs, namely
eating lots of them?

Well, this was my life
for more than two months
this fall as I worked for the
Bush-Quayle ticket during
the 1992 Presidential cam-
paign. And despite the
long hours, extensive travel,
and short-notice changes,
my spirits were never
dampened because I had
in my mind one goal: re-
electing George Bush and
Dan Quayle on Nov. 3.

Although the elec-
torate saw fit to do other-
wise, my experience on
the vice president's advance
team has given me a new
appreciation for the poli-
tical process, as well as a
new insight into the office

and the man who would be president.

Our role as “Advance,” in political
lingo, was to coordinate the vice presi-
dent’s schedule while in any given city.
My specific role was that of a press
advance lead, and my responsibilities
included writing media advisories,
contacting local media, and ensuring
maximum coverage of the vice
president’s visit to a particular city.

For more than two months, I criss-
crossed the United States, handing out
thousands of flyers, coordinating hun-
dreds of reporters, and writing scores of
press releases. And my only respite in
all of this was stopping to eat what
seemed like millions of wieners at that
prearranged stand.

Advance work offered innumerable
challenges, not the least of which was
simply remembering what city we were
in on any given day. But flexibility was
perhaps the paramount job qualifica-
tion. A vice president’s schedule changes
with the prevailing political wind, and
Advance must be able to turn on a dime.
However, turning on a dime becomes
more like lurching when you're trying
to redirect a 20-car motorcade.

Still, this was often what the vice
president wanted. Quayle developed a
reputation for impromptu stops during
his tenure, and I was witness to this
tendency on more than one occasion.
An avid sports fan and enthusiast, he
enjoys making unannounced stops at
bowling alleys, soccer fields, and the
like. He also enjoys casual visits with
the American
people at malls
and fast food
restaurants. In
Detroit, the vice
president di-
rected his motor-
cade to stop at a
suburban shop-
ping mall. As
Quayle greeted
noonday shop-
pers, the mall manager came up to me
with a frown on his face. He explained to
me in no uncertain terms that policy pro-
hibited campaigning on the premises.

After the manager explained to me in
no uncertain terms that policy prohibited
campaigning on the premises, | mus-
tered all the diplomacy | could and
replied, “Do you mean fo tell me that the
vice president of the United States cannot

come into a mall to buy a Coke?”

 

 

 

Moseley (right) stands by his man, Vice President Quayle, whom he calls “the true winner election night.”

Displaying all the diplomacy I
could muster at the moment, I responded,
“Do you mean to tell me that the vice
president of the United States cannot
come into the mall to buy a Coke?”
The manager turned on a heel, and
with a huff, stomped away. If Bush-
Quayle had lost by one vote in Michi-
gan, I know whose it would have been.

One aspect of Advance is to attempt
to personalize each visit that Vice Presi-
dent and Mrs. Quayle make. During a
stop in Cape Girardeau, Mo., the home
of conservative talk-show host Rush
Limbaugh, the vice president, standing
before a
crowd of
supporters
in front of
Air Force
‘Two, called
Limbaugh’s
afternoon
radio show.
Quayle
casually
asked him if
he would be the moderator for the up-
coming vice presidential debate, and
the press and the crowd at the airport
were ecstatic.

I was fortunate to have this exper-
ience by taking a leave of absence from
my employer, First Union Corp. in
Charlotte. I have been surrounded by
politics in one way or another since |
was a child, and I got a chance to prove
my political mettle at an early age on the
campaign trail for my cousin, U.S. Sen.
Paul Trible, ’71L. Yet there is an ironic
twist to my latest political assignment.

I grew up in Little Rock, Ark., with
Bill Clinton as governor during most of
my childhood. When Clinton delivered
the opening speech at W&L’s 1988
Mock Democratic Convention, I hosted
his visit to Lexington. One of my
fondest college memories will always be
of Clinton playing the saxophone at
Zollman’s Pavilion, as the Arkansas,
Virginia, and ‘Texas delegations partied
around the stage. And, of course, we
made the proverbial stop at East Lex.

‘The opportunity to work with Vice
President Quayle really began at Wash-
ington and Lee. In 1987, I spent a se-
mester in the Reagan Administration’s
Office of Presidential Advance. Al-
though I have been working with First
Union since graduation, I have been
called on to travel with the vice presi-
dent to the Far East, South America,

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

and Eastern Europe, in addition to
several stops stateside.

As I reflect on the election, I’m
convinced that the Republican ticket
lost because we ran a traditional
campaign in a non-traditional year. By
beginning his campaign at the tradi-
tional time of the day after Labor Day,
President Bush simply did not have
enough time to answer the Democrats’
eight months of criticism. But then, not
once did I feel in doing the advance
work that I was working for a hopeless
cause. For one thing, we got so focused
on the job at hand that we didn’t have
time to form any doubts.

In fairness to my governor and now-
president, I must say that Bill Clinton is
a highly intelligent individual, a consum-
mate politician who ran an excellent
campaign, and an ambitious man to
boot. He reminds me of a sign outside a
veterinarian office in Van Buren, Ark.:
“Veterinarian or T'axidermist—Either
Way You Get Your Dog Back.”

But I also believe that my boss, Dan
Quayle, was the true winner election
night. During the last four years, he
stood by his convictions in spite of unre-
lenting attacks from the media. He did
not abandon his conservative ideals and
wore the scorn of the press as a badge of
honor. I remember on Election Night
when the call came in and it was over,
he, like many of us, couldn’t really believe
it. | know it has taken a long time for me
to get over this loss. (I think I’ve been
through every stage of Kubler-Ross’s
dying process.)

In evaluating the experience as a
whole—with its inconveniences, its
never-ending supply of daily challenges,
and even its big disappointment at the
end—I would have to say that I
wouldn't have traded any of it for any-
thing in the world. The Advance team
worked hard for two months, and we
did all we could to re-elect the presi-
dent, but the American people chose
Bill Clinton. And on Jan. 20, the world
will witness what makes the United
States the envy of mankind: the
peaceful transition of power in the
mightiest government in history.

18 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

; Wastin
Glin fon Hlecteg a Post

”
=n Pp A
Clory rr ick

Vee

! .
1 Sweeping \ ;

‘ni

 

Eisenhauer (right) and aide Edgar Bueno post the winning return at the Democratic National Committee’ s party.

TOM EISENHAUER, “93

All Those Faxes, and
TheDreadlockedMan

I served as an administrative
assistant in the Clinton-Gore cam-
paign’s Washington Operations Office,
a satellite office of the national head-
quarters in Little Rock, Ark. It was a
small office, with about 20 staff and a
pool of some 5,000 volunteers. Our
office provided various support services
to the national headquarters, the field
offices in the D.C. area, and the
Democratic National Committee.

As one of two administrative
assistants, my most basic duties in-
cluded everything from overseeing the
phone system to sending the Congres-
stonal Record to Little Rock to fixing the
fax machine. Additionally, I had three
primary responsibilities: mailing out
speeches and the campaign’s 35 or so
position papers; sending the morning or
evening press clips to Little Rock each
day; and acting as the volunteer
coordinator for the Advance Team
when they came to the D.C. area.

The majority of my days and nights
were consumed by the latter two of
these tasks. ‘Typically, these chores
kept me at the office from 10 a.m. to 1

a.m., and some days, I might as well
have never gone home at all. After
Labor Day, Clinton spent most of his
time criss-crossing the country, but he
was in D.C. maybe twice a month.
Gore, however, lives in Arlington, Va.,
so he was up here every week. So three
to four days each week I’d be on the
phone from 10 a.m. calling my pool of
volunteers and trying to cajole them
into taking a day off from work “to help
with some advance work when Gov.
Clinton is in town tomorrow.” (Because
Advance didn’t usually have much time
to set things up, neither did I.)

And almost every night I’d buy the
first edition of 74e Washington Post at
10:45 p.m. and race back to the office to
start clipping. We tried to get the clips
to the Night Watch in the War Room in
Little Rock as soon as possible. This
put me on the front line of the cam-
paign’s vaunted “rapid response” effort.

The first part of this strategy
required some serious data collection—
all that could possibly be relevant. In
Little Rock, the Research Staff had
pulled together virtually everything
Gov. Clinton had ever said. They also
had pretty much everything anyone else
had ever said about him. I read some-
where that Betsey Wright, the gover-
nor’s former chief of staff and head of
the campaign’s research department,

bought a computer scanner and spent an
untold number of days and nights just
putting every remotely relevant docu-
ment into a database. Our Opposition
Research Staff—four guys in their 20s
who slept on the office floor for awhile—
collected the same information on Bush
and Quayle.

They had this wealth of information,

a sheer mountain of data. But to respond
effectively to the daily Republican attacks,
the War Room had to get out our side of
the story within the same news cycle.
Little Rock had to know about the
attacks before they hit the streets.

Little Rock, however, is not the
center of the media universe. (Or at
least it wasn’t before Nov. 3.) They
simply could not get the Post, The New
York Times, or the other major dailies
down there. So headquarters had
people in field offices across the country
faxing them clips of the early editions.
Being in Washington, D.C., home to
arguably the nation’s most politically
significant newspaper (the Pos/), as well
as definitely the most anti-Clinton daily
(The Washington Times), our office had to
be absolutely reliable.

So every night at 10:40, I'd drive to
the Washington Post building, park out
front with a dozen or so others who
couldn’t wait until 6 a.m. for the news,
and watch for the dreadlocked man in
the teal-green station wagon to pull out
of the loading docks. I'd buy my two
papers and scan them as I sped the ten
blocks back to
the office, where
| quickly clip-
ped the articles

To respond effectively to the daily

your late nights. Often, the highlight of
my night was talking to the Night
Watch. I'd call him, and he’d answer
with something snappy like, “Why are
you sending me such crappy stories?”
Of course, when I sent him the story
about the State Department searching
through the passport files of Gov. Clinton
and his mother, he greeted me with a
hearty, “Can you believe this [stuff]?”

A couple of times, however, things
were really intense. For months, the
media had been talking about how the
GOP was studying British Prime Mini-
ster John Major’s come-from-behind
victory for his ‘Tory party. ‘There were
real similarities between that situation
and the U.S. presidential race, so it
seemed reasonable that the Republi-
cans would look across the Atlantic for
some advice. Finally, Bush/Quayle ran a
TV ad modeled after the successful
‘Tories in which middle-class American
workers accompanied by a grave voice
detailing how much their taxes would
be raised in a Clinton Administration.

It could have been a strikingly effective
ad. There was one slight problem, how-
ever. These were exactly the type of
people whose taxes Bill
Clinton had said he was
going to decrease. In-
deed, these were the
type of people
whose taxes had
gone up in the
1980s.

   
 

and faxed them
tothe WarRoom.

‘This seems
routine, [know—
and muchofthe
time, itwas. You
had to get the
early Post clips
to the Night

Republican attacks, the War Room had

to get out our side of the story within the
same news cycle, and Little Rock had to
know about the attacks before they hit the
streets. Little Rock, however, is not the
center of the media universe.

 

About 7:30
that evening,
we got a call
from the War
Room. They
needed the
next day’s

Watch so he could have them and the
news summary ready for senior staff at 7
a.m. Central time. You knew it was vital,
but often you didn’t see the results of

article from The Wall Street Journal about
the ad. Normally, we didn’t get the
Journal until 6 a.m., but we called their
printing press in Silver Spring, Md., and

found a security guard who agreed to
give us his copy of the paper. About 9
p.m., I called the Night Watch to double-
check what he wanted. He asked for
the Journa/ story again, and then said
the Postalso was running one. Five
minutes later, he called me back to
stress the importance of getting these
two articles ASAP. Mandy Grunwald,
the campaign’s chief media strategist,
was pacing back and forth waiting for
the stories. I sent someone to Silver
Spring to get the Jouma/and went to get
the Post myself. We both returned
without any problems, and I faxed the
articles to Little Rock. ‘Then I called
the Night Watch to make sure they had
gone through. They had, he said, but
Grunwald was presently pacing back
and forth in her D.C. office. Could I
please fax them to her “right now,” he
asked, with just a hint of urgency in his
voice.

Within 24 hours, our response ad
was out, quoting both the Post and the
Journal articles. It was one of those
little success stories that was made up of
more than meets the eye.

Doing the morning clips was more
complex than the evening clips.

You had to clip and fax four
papers instead of one. But

before you could do that,
you had to put a box of
newspapers on a 6:50
a.m. “Delta Dash” to
Little Rock. (Yes, we
sent them the same
papers that they got in
the clips, but the
campaign’s top brass
wanted full copies.) All in all,
it usually turned out to be a pretty
hectic morning.
On my first morning shift, I got

  
 
 

one of those you-screwed-up calls from
Heather Beckel, the assistant to
Communications Director George
Stephanopoulos. I had done the clips
‘Tuesday night, getting to bed about
2:30 a.m. Wednesday. ‘T'wo-and-a-half
hours later, I pulled myself up, into the
shower, and out the door. By 5:45 a.m.,
I was parked illegally at Union Station

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

buying 20 newspapers in six different
machines. I was on schedule until I
tried to pack the papers in the box that
was supposed to be in my back seat. It
was at the office.

Now I was really worried. I flew
across D.C. to the office, rushed up and
then back down its nine floors, and
made it to the National Airport by 6:30
a.m. ‘The papers made the flight, but I
was late getting back to the office. The
first set of clips, from The New York
Times, was almost through the fax
machine when Heather called. In her
feather-soft voice, she asked about the
Journa/ articles. | said I was about to
start faxing it. “George needs to see that
first,” she explained gently. “He’s
already making his morning press calls,
and he doesn’t know what’s in the
papers.” I was, to say the least, cha-
grined. I could just picture him,
irritated, saying to her, “Where are the
clips?” and her responding, “It’s a new
guy, Eisen/aver, or something.”

Oh well, there were better days,
and in all respects, it’s been a tremen-
dous experience with, ultimately, a
great reward. ‘That sense of accom-
plishment is best typified by a moment
in mid-summer that stands out in my
memory. It was mid-June and I was at
the Capitol Hilton. Clinton had just left
town, finally. After spending the
previous 48 or so hours in this hotel
room, some Advance guys and I were
sitting around feeling exhausted and

doing nothing. A television was
mumbling the news when we noticed
they were talking about the latest ABC
News/Washington Post poll. We turned
up the

sound and found that for
the first time we had
pulled ahead of Bush
and Perot. Until then,
I had been slightly,
naggingly worried.
We'd been mired in
third place—close, but still last.

 

‘That poll, however, was incredibly
uplifting, a moment I -won’t forget.

20 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

Bothon screen and off, the tension of Election Night coverage was prevalent.

Election Night 92

The making of the president, Cable 9-style

It was with the same thrill of victory of a
winning candidate that Spain Brumby and Matt
Jennings took off their headsets and made their
way out of the Reid Hall TV studio at 11 p.m. on
‘Tuesday, Nov. 3. Another successful Cable 9
Election Night broadcast was in the books.

The student-run telecast, co-produced by
seniors Jennings and Brumby, has become a
regular part of the journalism routine at Wash-
ington and Lee. Overseen by journalism profes-
sors Ronald MacDonald and Robert J. de Maria,
the broadcast is student-produced, -directed,
-anchored, and -reported from beginning to end.
It is perhaps as fine an education into the orga-
nized chaos of live election coverage that a stu-
dent can get anywhere.

“It was very mentally and even physically
draining, much more than I expected,” Jennings
said. “There were times when I just had to get
up and walk around for awhile because it was
getting almost too intense.”

In other words, it was a typical Cable 9
election night. While Brumby barked out in-
structions to anchors Craig Burke and Jennifer
Mayo, Mike McBride and Jim Gallagher manned
the control room, flipping switches and cueing
videotape. In the editing room, Curtis Joseph
was trying to tape segments on other networks
and keep tabs on their projections. Fred Haring
and Sean O’ Rourke wore outa path between the
studio and the computer lab, bringing wire re-
ports and local phoned-in results with them,
while John Conkling scanned the Associated
Press wire in search of the next breaking result.

Amy Way and Jeb Tilly rushed out for a
report from the College Democrats’ victory party.
Analysts Tara Maitra, Talley Wooley, and Sum-
mer Brown bounced from studio to TV monitor

to computer screen for updates, jotting notes to
themselves in between their on-air segments. It
was the journalistic equivalent of an ant farm.

“None of this would have been able to
happen if we didn’t have all of these people
working together,” explained Jennings. “The
anchors were the only ones people saw, but there
were a lot of people behind the scenes.”

Burke, a regular anchor of the evening news
on Cable 9, said live event coverage was an
adjustment, but he learned a lot in three hours.
“This isn’t something you can learn from books,”
he said. “You can’t know what election night
coverage is like unless you were here.”

The value of the experience isn’t taken for
granted by MacDonald and de Maria, either.
With the recent exception of the quadrennial
Mock Convention coverage, election night on
Cable 9 is the single largest student broadcast
journalism exercise at W&L. “Anytime you have
something like this, there’s a point in the plan-
ning when you look at all you have on paper and
say, ‘Nah, it'll never work,”” de Maria said at
evening’s end. “So to see it all come off the way
it did, you have to be pleased.”

‘To be sure, there were glitches. Cameras got
out of position, video segments sometimes didn’t
go off as planned and sometimes didn’t go at all,
analysts got flustered by the volumes of informa-
tion dancing in their heads, and anchors got
confused as to who was introducing whom. “I
don’t think we had one segment that ran
smoothly,” Jennings said afterward, “and that
was kind of frustrating. And at times, it almost got
a little comical, but that broke up the tension. But
then when you walk over to the TV and you see
Bernard Shaw on CNN making the same mis-
takes you’re making, you don’t feel too bad.”

=

 

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE ef |

WINTER « 1992

 

 

 

HOMECOMING

Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority members stole away
with the first-place trophy—an authentic stuffed
mink-—for their winning float in the inaugural
Homecoming Parade Oct. 3.

Wo Be es Ne

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Clockwise from top: Southern Comfort’s Friday night concert was its usual rollicking good time; W&L’s Thomas May sacrifices life and limb to break up a

 

 

 

 

 

play in Saturday’s homecoming game with Randolph-Macon; and old friends and new made Homecoming memories.

Homecoming ’92

Old friends, new traditions, and a weekend of plenty for alumni, students

t was a Homecoming of new traditions

and old friends, of the unchanging

grandeur of the Colonnade and the
beauty of the changing colors of autumn,
of brilliant blue skies and sunshine and
equally brilliant lectures and seminars.
Homecoming 1992 at Washington and
Lee had all of these and a few things
more, providing a weekend of plenty for
alumni and students in early October.

“Through the combined efforts of

students, staff, administration, and the
City of Lexington, we were able to enjoy
one of our most successful Homecomings
ever,” said James D. Farrar Jr., 74, director
of alumni programs. “The addition of the
parade was a big success, and I look
forward to it being an integral part of our
Homecoming celebration every year.

This year’s Homecoming, held Oct.
1-3, brought with it a return to some of
the school spirit and unity of years past.
Combining the old (though dormant)
traditions of decorated fraternity houses
and the Friday night pajama parade, the
Alumni Office, through its student orga-
nization Kathekon, sponsored a Saturday
morning Homecoming parade, complete
with marching bands, floats, queen can-
didates, and fire engines.

Led by the Lylburn Downing
Middle School marching band, the parade
stopped in front of the R.E. Lee Episco-
pal Church to be reviewed by the crowd
of Five-Star Generals and others who
lined Washington Street. Playing “The
W&L Swing,” the crowd sang and
clapped in unison. Jugglers, fire trucks,

and the new Rockbridge County High
School marching band followed, but the
highlight of the parade was the myriad of
floats representing many of the W&L
fraternities, sororities, and student
organizations. [he winning entry and the
recipient of the Homecoming Parade float
trophy, which features a stuffed mink as
its centerpiece, was the Kappa Kappa
Gamma sorority for their float depicting a
prize fight. ‘Titled “Buzzkiller,” the float
featured a boxing ring and a ringside
announcer and concluded with the W&L
General knocking out the Randolph-
Macon Yellow Jacket.

‘The parade was no doubt a treat for
many of the returning alumni, including
the Five-Star Generals. Eighty-six of
these special alumni who have been

 

7
“

 

PAGE 22/ THE GAZETTE

 

 

a}

More from Homecoming, clockwise from top left: Joei Dyes, 91 (seated), chats with Martika Parson, ’91L, on the front lawn; JubiLee was again a show-

 

stopping act at Homecoming; Five-Star General Al Durante, ’36, reminisces with friends at Saturday’s luncheon. Class agents (shown above) gathered for
their annual weekend Sept. 11 and 12 at the University. Pictured (I-r) are: first row, Peter Cronin, ’84, Alan Tomlin, 69, John Moore, ’66, ’73L, Phil
Norwood, 69, Charlie Longacre, ’33, Opie Pollard, ’54, ’57L, Bill Greer, ’49L, George Gray, ’50L; second row, Van Pate, ’71, Mike Pace, ’84L, Molly
Ziebold, 92L, Vaughan Gibson, 91L, Elizabeth Cummins, 89, Charlie Treadgold, ’49, David Meese, ’59; third row, Millard Fretland, ’83L, Lizanne
Thomas, ’82L, Jim Warms, ’42, Scott Bond, ’83, Jack Baber, 66, Ted McKeldin, ’59; fourth row, Howard Packett, 58, David Black, ’82L, Al Fleishman,
‘41, Greg Digel, ’73L, Bill DeCamp, ’85; fifth row, Jimmy Brooks, ’77, Peter Keefe, ’78, Drake Leddy, ’71, Walter Smith, ’54, Bill Bowen, ’61; sixth row,
Parker Smith, ’53, Gray Castle, ’53, Stephen White, 91, John Wolf, 69, ’72L, Matt Thompson, ’84; seventh row, Steve Annand, ’72L, John Cleghorn, ’84,
Dug Dugger, ’50, Reno Harp, ’54,’56L, Pat Arey, 69, ’76L; eighth row, Fray McCormick, 89, Bob Powell, 64, 67L, Andy McCutcheon, ’48, George

Goodwin, ’39, Brad Watkins, 88.

graduated from W&L for 50 or more
years were registered for the weekend.
All told, some 450 alumni returned to
Lexington for the weekend.

In addition to the alumni returning
for the festivities, the weekend also
brought with it a symposium for volunteers
in the University’s Alumni Career Assis-
tance Program. Also, the annual Home-
coming meetings were held for the Alumni
Board of Directors and the Law Council
of the Law School Alumni Association.

The returning guests were treated to
a number of special events, including the
annual John Randolph ‘Tucker Lecture
by noted American legal history scholar
Morton J. Horwitz; a special concert by
Southern Comfort, Jubilee, the Univer-
sity Chorus, and the Chamber Singers;

and a special first-time ever seminar,
“George Washington: An Unfinished
Portrait,” presented by W&L history
professors ‘laylor Sanders and Holt
Merchant, ’61.

In addition to the parade on Satur-
day, there was the annual pre-game
luncheon on the front lawn and the foot-
ball game, including the crowning of the
1992 Homecoming Queen at halftime.
Patricia Perdigon, a W&L senior repre-
senting Chi Omega sorority, was crowned
as the 1992 Queen.

Perdigon, who is president of her
sorority, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa
her junior year, and is also a member of
Omicron Delta Kappa and Alpha Upsilon
Delta, the pre-medical honor society. She
is a biology major, and she plans to

continue her studies in medical school.

In all, the weekend brought many
memories back to returning alumni, and
some of those emotions were best displayed
by the Five-Star Generals.

From Donald N. Maloy, ’38: “Once
again, it was a truly great Homecoming
Weekend. The only weak moments
came when we suddenly realized that it
was almost over and we had to leave.”

Harry B. Neel, °28: “I was pleased to
find the charm and beauty of the campus
as thrilling as ever.... My devotion to
W&L has never diminished, and this
visit gave it new impetus.”

And, finally, from Lauren D. Wild,
"38: “It was superb—of course, what does
one expect from Washington and Lee—
nothing but the best.”

 

 

THE GAZETT E/ PAGE 23 ¢

|

 

 

 

J

 

 

 

Stachura resigns,
Anderson appointed
university editor

ike Stachura, ’86,

university editor, has

resigned his position to
become an assistant editor for in-
struction with Go/f Digest magazine
in Trumbull, Conn. This is the last
issue of W@&L to be produced under
his supervision.

“Mike has served Washington
and Lee with unselfish dedication
and loyalty, first in his capacity as
sports information director, and
then as university editor,” said
Brian Shaw, director of communica-
tions. “We wish him well in his
new position.”

After graduating from W&L,
Stachura served as a sports writer
with The Alabama Journal in Mont-
gomery. He was named sports
information director at Washington
and Lee in 1988, and was named
university editor in 1991.

Dick Anderson, editor of On the
Shoulders of Giants, the capital cam-
paign newsletter, has been appointed
university editor. Anderson brings a
strong background to the position.
He receivedhis B.A. in journalism
in 1986 from the University of
North Carolina, where he served on
The Daily Tar Heel ina number of
positions including associate editor.

He has wnitten for Business Week,
Southpoint, the Atlanta Journal-
Constitution, Hamptons Newspaper/
Magaxine,and Comics Retailer,
among other publications. In
addition to his work for W&L,
Anderson is finishing a novel as
well as adapting an award-winning
series of newspaper articles on a
debutante turned bag lady into
book form.

Although not a W&L graduate,
Anderson has strong ties to the Uni-
versity and the Lexington area.
Both his father, Arthur C. Anderson,
’47, and uncles Fred Bartenstein, 39,
"41L, and Bates W. Bryan, °43,
‘48L, are W&L men.

LS /

Fae

 

 

Riegel’s cards “are quite achange from trading cardson baseball players and serial killers.”

Riegel enlists in
trading card wars

hat image is it that comes to
mind when you think about
trading cards? Most likely, it’s

that of a couple of kids in a treehouse, or
even a couple of grown-ups bantering on
the phone, saying something like, “I'll
trade you two Nolan Ryan rookie cards
for a Will Clark, a Barry Bonds, and a Jose
Canseco, and that’s my final offer.”

If O.W. “Tom” Riegel, professor
emeritus of journalism at W&L, had his
druthers, the exchange would go more
like this: “I'll trade you one ‘Adolf Hitler
ist der Sieg!’ for two ‘U.S. War Bonds: To
Have and to Hold,’ and that’s my final
offer.”

Riegel, in an unusual arrangement
with the trading card company Tuff Stuff
Inc., has brought out a 15-card set of
World War II propaganda cards. The
images were culled from his extensive
collection of political poster art. Four
more 45-card sets, covering both World
Wars, are expected to be released soon.

“I estimate that I have between 2,500
and 3,000 political posters,” Riegel said
one afternoon at his home, Gulchleigh. “I
began collecting them when I came to
Washington and Lee in 1930, using them
as visual aids in my course in public
opinion and propaganda.”

Using various methods of acquisition,
Riegel’s collection slowly grew, or as he
puts it, “accreted,” over the years. As a
young man, he made the rounds in pre-
war Germany, soliciting them from
political parties. ‘Thanks to a position as
principal propaganda analyst in the U.S.

Office of War Information during World
War II, he acquired a great number of
U.S. and British posters. Today, by means
of a wide network of friends and contacts,
he receives most of his posters through
the mail.

Riegel’s collection is truly an impr
sive record of what he calls “the graffiti of
history.” Especially well represented in
his collection are American and British
World War I and II posters, German
posters of Hitler-era and post-World War
II elections; Hungarian political party
posters, propaganda posters from the
Soviet Union and the People’s Republic
of China, Western European anti-
Communist posters, and American
political party posters.

Propaganda posters, he says, are “the
visual illustration of manipulative tactics.”
Not surprisingly, the Nazis were masters
of the propaganda poster, but it was in the
Soviet Union, China, and in Communist-
dominated Eastern Europe that the
medium really proliferated and became
perfected.

‘Today, thanks to radio and television,
the propaganda poster is all but extinct.
Political posters, of course, do live on, but
their former influence has been greatly
reduced. That’s why Riegel welcomes
the sort of exposure afforded by the
trading cards.

“I think the cards are well done, with
excellent color reproduction and informa-
tive texts on propaganda strategies and
historical background,” he said. “I’m
happy that they wanted to do something
serious, something educational that kids
could become interested in. They are
quite a change from trading cards on
baseball players and serial killers!”

 

°,
a

 

LL

PAGE 24/ THE GAZETTE

oe .

J

 

 

Good news, bad news after Rush

ashington and Lee’s annual
fall fraternity rush featured a
much more stable ‘Tear Night,

but the numbers from that night reveal a
less-balanced pledge distribution,
according to figures released by the
Interfraternity Council in October.

Tear Night, the traditional evening
when prospective fraternity members
announce their intentions, had become a
raucous, out-of-control activity that last
year resulted in seven students being
treated at Stonewall Jackson Hospital, as
well as a steady stream of visitors to the
infirmary. ‘The misconduct led to an IFC
study of Tear Night activities last year,
and the result was a new set of Tear Night
rules that mandated an alcohol-free period
from 5 to 8 p.m. on the night when bids
were accepted. This year, only one injury
was reported and infirmary officials said
no one came in on Tear Night.

“It was a success as far as personal
injuries and trips to the hospital,” Dennis
Manning, dean of freshmen, told 7he
Ring-tum Phi. “| hope we can keep this
track record in the future.”

Dean of Students David Howison
credited student leaders for the new Tear
Night calm, especially IFC President Sam
Rock and Vice President ‘Tom Washmon.

“Sam and ‘Tom met with the fresh-
men Thursday night and told them to act
responsibly,” Howison told the Pz. “This

“It didn’t completely eliminate all of
the problems, but I thought it worked,”
Atkins said in an interview on Cable 9,
W&L’s student-run television station.
“The other thing I think it did was create
a general sense of greater satisfaction with
the behavior of the students on that night
in the police department, our security
people, house directors, and, for the most
part, in a lot of fraternity members, who I
think were in agreement that things had
gone a little too far.”

The 246 men pledging fraternities
on Tear Night were not evenly divided
among the University’s 15 fraternities
participating in fall rush. (Delta Tau
Delta is currently serving a one-year
suspension. Alpha Phi Alpha, the tradi-
tionally black fraternity which was
endorsed in November 1991 by the IFC,
holds rush in the winter. Interested
students are working on a potential Alpha
Phi Alpha rush for this winter.) The
breakdown included a high of 35 pledges
at Phi Kappa Psi and a low of three at Chi
Psi. One-half of the 246 freshmen
pledging a house joined one of five
fraternities: Phi Kappa Psi, Sigma Phi
Epsilon, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma
Chi, and Phi Kappa Sigma.

Here are the fall pledge totals:
Phi Kappa Psi 35; Sigma Phi Epsilon 25;
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 24; Sigma Chi 20; Phi
Kappa Sigma 19; Phi Delta Theta 18; Kappa

 

is a student success.”

‘The new Tear Night rules also were
lauded by Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins, asso-
ciate dean of students for Greek affairs.

Sigma 17; Pi Kappa Phi 17; Pi Kappa Alpha
16; Sigma Nu 14; Beta Theta Pi 12; Kappa
Alpha 11; Phi Gamma Delta 10; Lambda Chi
Alpha 5; and Chi Psi 3.

 

Educator ‘Thomas named to Board of ‘Trustees

Washington and Lee Board of Trustees.

A graduate of Westhampton College at the University of Richmond, Thomas is a former
teacher in the Henrico County (Va.) and Alexandria school systems and at Ascension Academy.
‘Thomas served two four-year terms on the Virginia Board of Education, and was president from
1990 to 1992. She was a member of the administrative, assessment, and finance committee, the
subcommittee on teachers and teaching, and the Governor’s Commission on Excellence in Education.

Thomas has also been active with the Virginia Literacy Initiative and served as chairman of the
state Adult Literacy Committee. She was a member of the Council on Child Day Care and Early
Childhood Programs and was appointed to the Governor’s Commission on Educational Opportuni-
ties for All Virginians. She is a past member and chairman of the board of governors of St. Agnes
School and was the first female member of the board of trustees of Episcopal High School. She is
also a past member of the parents council at the College of William and Mary.

‘Thomas is married to William G. Thomas, an attorney and lobbyist. They have three children,
William Griffin Thomas III, a third-year law student at W&L, Alexander Young Thomas, and
Margaret Campbell ‘Thomas.

S uzanne Foster Thomas of Alexandria, Va., educator and administrator, has been named to the

 

 

 

 

 

 

[ @ THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 2 @ |U

aaa

 

 

 

 

 

 

°
« ‘
s¢,*,

4 2 pe

  

vin.
88
mas os

Ndi y

 

 

W&L professors Tom Williams (front) and Bob Akins provide individualized instruction innew

computerclassroom.

Classroom of the future in place at W&L

ome students are equating the ex-
S perience with the command center

of the starship Enserprise, but really
it’s not that far out. It’s just W&L’s first
computerized classroom.

‘The 16-station classroom, located in
the basement of Parmly Hall, provides
both faculty and students with an ideal
work and study place, as well as a class-
room that brings modern technology on-
line with traditional individualized
instruction. ‘The comfortably lit room is
carpeted and includes places for 16
students and a teacher on special com-
puter desks that are able to double as
regular flat-top desks.

‘The 16 desks each feature a Dell 486
microcomputer with a VGA color monitor
hidden beneath a see-through desk. The
keyboard and mouse for each computer
slide back under the desks when they are
not in use. Each of the terminals is
connected to the University’s computer

Fancy Dress scheduled for March 5; annual ball offers package deal

ith the start of the new year, the Washington and
Lee student body turns its thoughts to the premier
social event of the year, the Fancy Dress Ball. ‘The
plans for the 1993 ball have been finalized by the Student
Activities Board, and the planning is already underway for
turning the Warner Center into another spectacular showplace.
The dates for the annual Fancy Dress Weekend this year
are March 5-7. The Ball will begin at 10 p.m. in the Warner

network, as well as Annie, the computer-
ized card catalog system in the
University’s libraries. Even more
dramatic is a master console switching
device that allows each of the classroom’s
computers to interface with each other, as
well as with the lecturer’s computer at the
head of the classroom. ‘That computer
also is fitted with a special pointer device
that can be transmitted on each of the 16
workstation monitors.

According to Thomas Ahnemann,
W&L’s network specialist in Parmly Hall,
the new setup is drawing rave reviews
from students and faculty alike.

“The comments have been very
positive,” Ahnemann said. “And the
faculty has been very eager to put it to
use. ‘The ease of use has been a key
factor. I don’t have to spend a lot of time
training them. And the room itself
provides us with a good atmosphere for
using the technology effectively.”

Center on March 5. ‘Tickets for the ball are $45 per couple. A
package including two T-shirts, two cups, and two posters,
along with the commemorative tickets displaying the 1993
Fancy Dress theme is being offered at a price of $75.

All questions concerning Fancy Dress 1993, hotel accom-
modations, or other plans for the weekend can be directed to
the SAB office at (703) 463-8585. Alumni are urged to contact
SAB alumni correspondent Kimberly Hardie at 463-5593.

Not just for scientists anymore, the
new computerized classroom offers mixed
media opportunities that could make ita
handy tool for English, foreign language,
and history classes. Even the philosophy
department is having a go at the high-
tech classroom.

Ahnemann said he finds the computer
classroom has some special challenges
from the teacher’s perspective, too. With
the danger of the educational process
becoming a closed-end, impersonal sort of
exercise, he says the computer classroom
forces professors to work to make more
personal contact with their students.

“You don’t have the benefit of con-
stant eye contact because each student is
focused on the screen,” he said. “So you
have to emphasize some other skills,
sometimes even literally patting someone
on the back after doing a good job.”

‘The new computerized classroom is
just one example of the expanding role of
computers on campus. In addition to
Annie, network systems are up and
running that include electronic mail
access for every W&L student and there
are 150 microcomputers available on
campus for student use, in most cases 24
hours a day. According to John Stuckey,
director of university computing, com-
puters are being assimilated neatly into the
academic life at W&L.

“It used to be possible to point to
‘Tucker Hall and say, “That’s where the
computers are,’ ” he explained. “Today,
you can’t point anywhere without
pointing to computers and computing.
Does that sound strange, at this very old
and traditional university? We think it
simply maintains our tradition of
providing the best and most relevant
education possible, of making sure that
our graduates know the best tools
available in order to be completely
prepared in a competitive world.”

 

PAGE 26/ THE

| e

GAZETTE

se

 

 

 

 

 

Hall of Fame nominations

due in Alumni Office

he Alumni Office

[ein all interested

alumni that nominations
for the Washington and Lee
Athletic Hall of Fame can be
filed with the Director of
Alumni Programs at any time.

The Athletic Hall of

Fame was established in 1987
by the W&L Alumni Asso-
ciation to honor and memori-
alize those who have made
outstanding contributions to
Washington and Lee athletics
and have helped bring recog-
nition, honor, excellence, and
distinction to the University
and its intercollegiate athletic
program. Alumni are eligible
beginning 10 years after their
graduation date.

To be eligible for the
Athletic Hall of Fame, an ath-

W&L. Former coaches,
trainers, managers, and other
staff who have made out-
standing contributions to
W&L athletics also are eligible
for nomination.

The Alumni Office
encourages those nominating
individuals to include with
their nomination any relevant
information, articles, or photo-
graphs that would assist the
Athletic Hall of Fame Com-
mittee in the selection process.
Inquiries and nominations are to
be directed to W&L Athletic
Hall of Fame, Alumni Office,
Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, VA 24450.

‘Twenty-four athletic
standouts have been inducted
into the Athletic Hall of Fame
in its first five years. A

lete must have participated in banquet will be held this
two full seasons of varsity coming September as part of
intercollegiate competition at Hall of Fame Weekend.
Student-alumni group formed

to talk about AIDS education

group of Washington and Lee students and alumni have
established a new organization on campus with an aim
toward educating the W&L community about AIDS.
The W&L AIDS Education Project began last spring as a
fledgling group organized by Pat McDermott, now a junior at
W&L. McDermott has since redoubled his efforts and the group
now includes students and alumni. The aim of the W&L AIDS
Education Project rests in education, according to McDermott,
who told The Ring-tum Phi, “People know how the disease is spread
and they know how to protect themselves, but the percentage of
people who practice safe sex is way too low.”

The W&L AIDS Education Project presented a public
lecture by Dr. Robert Carrere, ’72, in November. Carrere, a
clinical psychologist, spoke on the subject, “The Human Face of
AIDS.” Carrere related a number of personal stories about the
disease and talked specifically about the lives and deaths of six of
his W&L classmates and friends who died of AIDS. He urged
his audience to make efforts to end the cultural denial of the

disease.

“My job, as I see it here tonight, is to give you HIV, to let
you know that this is your virus,” said Carrere, referring to the
virus that causes AIDS. “Those of you who choose to deny this
are most at risk because of your denial. Your motivated ignorance

may ultimately betray you.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

© THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 27 @

 

 

 

 

 

he Washington

iE Lee coat of

arms has become
a ubiquitous and
recognizable symbol
of the University. It
can be found on
stationery, decals, and all manner of clothing and souvenirs. It
also looms prominently over Evans Dining Hall in painted
bas-relief and above the Early-Fielding Student Center.

And yet how many of us know what this symbolic legacy
represents and how it relates to the two great men whose
names and personas mold this institution? The origin and
history of the W&L coat of arms is a fascinating tale.

Recent research by Beverly M. DuBose III, ’62, and
Mark Alexander, who presented their findings to the Board of
Trustees in 1990, provided initial insights into the make-up of
the coat of arms. Building upon this foundation, a further
study of the University’s history and the family history of its
namesakes helps dissect the makeup and origin of the W&L
coat of arms. It uncovers a few mysteries as well.

The Washington arms are depicted in the top right quad-
rant. George Washington descended from the Washingtons of
Sulgrave Manor in England. The arms of George Washington
are those used by his great-grandfather, John Washington,
who emigrated from England in 1657. The arms depict a
silver field with two red bars and three red stars at the top.
These five-pointed stars are known as mullets. Some
authorities claim that the mullet is a knight’s spur. The
mullet, however, was used in heraldry before the invention of
the spur rowel and thus is of uncertain origin. The mullet is
said to represent shining virtue. An erroneous folk legend has
it that the red bars on the Washington coat of arms inspired
the design of the American flag.

The Lee family history is the source for the lower two
quadrants in the W&L coat of arms. Some accounts claim that
the Lees trace their ancestry back to a Launcelot Lee of
Louder, France, who accompanied William the Conqueror to
the battle of Hastings. Other accounts begin with the year
1201 in England and a Reginald de Le, Sheriff. In 1385,
Roger de la Lee, of Coton Hall, Salop County, married the
sister and heiress of Sir Thomas Astley, of Nordley. After this
marriage, the arms of the Lee and Astley families were com-
bined. Robert E. Lee’s great-great-great-grandfather, Richard
Lee, came to Virginia from England in the 17th century.

The Lee arms, in the lower left quadrant, are set in a red
field and feature a blue-and-gold checked pattern dividing
two fields of silver billets. There are four such rectangles
across the top field and six across the bottom.

The Astley arms, in the lower right quadrant, incorporate
a number of interesting devices. The heraldic rose, or
cinquefoil, located at the center in a blue field, is fashioned
after the dog rose and hence has five petals. ‘The Astley arms

 

 

 

 

The W&L Coat of Arms

An Explanation and History

by Christopher John Lonsbury, ’92L.

feature a silver cinquefoil in a blue field. The peculiar black,
arrow-like elements that ring the outside field are stylized
ermine tails. This marking goes back to the time when tails of
the animals were fastened with a clasp of three pins whose
head looked like a cloverleaf. Ermine fur was used by the
wealthy classes to line the armorial cloak. A loose linen
surcoat displaying the family arms was often worn over a
knight’s battle armor, hence the term “coat of arms.” |
Numerous university arms have a symbol of learning,
such as a book, in the upper left quadrant. The first quadrant
of the W&L arms contains a blue field with a book bearing a
Latin phrase. The inscribed words omnia autem probate come
from the New Testament, 1 Thessalonians 5:21. Within its
context the phrase translates as “prove all things” or “test
everything.” An account from a 1935 W&L Alumni Magazine

~ :
—) rT)
Sos Se Ee

BS

Anearlyincarnation ofthe W& L coat ofarms, with eight rectangles
instead of ten.

 

| af

PAGE 28/THE GAZETTE 4

|

a

os

. a
c “a a. af * are
ere ee FS
2) ee ee pT

~*, Ex
. a

“ - » . ¥
oleh ete °4
Oe eas ane 7 an “2
CCRT
7". Pa A “ “ % ils

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
 

9 CZ a x ok »! «
oe Pigpe as & ry “
A ak teat Wet” ae Pe PAE ers” $ D bs 4 gaat
fi ls a, Feose P ie le Cl ae * 5 Zs

h aa as we a eee
a Beene 01S Zip Se
ee tee
¥ n sa

 
 

 

Newwall features curved corner, below, toidentify University.

New entrance wall to be built at W&L
will border Jefferson Street

plan for a low wall
bordering the en-
trance to the Uni-
versity along Jefferson and
Washington Streets was
submitted to the Lexington
Planning Commission in
October, and construction was
expected to start as soon as
the plan was approved.

The plan calls for a three-
to four-foot masonry wall,
extending from each side of
the existing War Memorial
Gate on Jefferson Street, to
Letcher Avenue on the north,
and to Washington Street on
the south. At the corner of
Jefferson and Washington, the
design features a heightened,
curved corner that will
identify the University and its
founding date.

“Construction of the
handsome low brick wall will
enhance the entrance to the
University,” said Frank
Parsons, °54, coordinator for
facilities planning. “The
project also sets in motion
plans to replace old concrete
posts and metal rails along

Jefferson Street with a
decorative element that
blends with the brick walls of
the newly renovated fraternity
houses across the street.”

Parsons told The Ring-tum
Phi that the wall is not to
serve as a border or barricade,
but as a functional decoration.

“It’s a friendly wall,” he
said. “It’s the kind of wall you
can sit on.”

Funding of the Jefferson
Street wall and the corner
feature will come through the
Class of 1943’s planned 50th
Reunion gift. It is intended to
be a memorial to the 19 mem-
bers of the class who lost their
lives during World War II.
The class also is working to
establish a scholarship in
memory of E.P. “Cy” Twombly,
former athletic director and
legendary coach at W&L.

The wall plans were de-
signed by GWSM Inc., land-
scape architects and planning
consultants to the University.
It is similar in detail to brick-
work around the Lee Chapel
plaza and the Lee House.

 

&# THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 29 %

 

 

 

y
, ie 8 I
aa id a

had ae

 

 

Dick Grefe, adviser tothe W&L Film Society, loads one of the University’s new 16mm projectors in the projection room of the revamped

|

_

 

Troubador. The new Troubador’s theater-style seating (below) gives everyone a good view of the bigscreen.

Old ‘Iroubador theater gets new look, new responsibilities as movie house

he ‘Troubador is back!

Home to Washington and Lee’s drama department and a

myriad assortment of productions over the years, the
‘Troubador recently received a technical facelift and now has a
new function, one that stays well in line with its artistic history.
Instead of actors making their way across the ‘Troubador stage,
now actors will be appearing on screen at the ‘T’roubador, which
is now the home of the University’s new movie house.

‘The structure at the corner of Henry and Main streets has
had an interesting history, both before and after it came into exi-
stence as a W&L facility in 1929. Built in the 1850s, the historic
Greek Revival building was originally the site of the Rockbridge
Boot and Shoe Factory, but it also has been home to a pool hall, a
dance hall, a hardware store, a nickelodeon, and a roller rink.

It was in 1929 that W&L students began using the ‘T’rou-
bador as a theater workshop. The facility took its name from the
troupe’s own name, the Washington and Lee Troubadors. For
six years, they constructed scenery and rehearsed plays before
taking the whole production up Main Street to the Lyric ‘Theater
for the public performances. (Interestingly, the Lyric still stands,
but it remains empty while the ‘Troubador has new life.)

In 1935, however, W&L students pooled together some
Publications Board and Executive Committee funding and
turned the ‘T’roubador into a full-fledged theater. It has since
seen everything from Shakespeare to Beckett, Revolutionary
musicals and theater of the absurd. Bolstered by the vision of the
late Lee Kahn, professor of drama from 1965 to 1980, the ‘Trou-
bador provided a tempting menu for the local theater enthusiast
and a never-ending series of challenges for W&L students.

Among those challenges included the theater itself. ‘There
were times when actors’ voices were drowned out by the pelting
rain on the ‘T'roubador’s tin roof. ‘Then, there were the times when

bats would swoop down from the eaves as uninvited guests. And
stage blocking at the ‘Troubador involved a special higher math
that also brought out the creativity of the actors and directors.

Now the theater department is securely in place at the Len-
fest Center, and the ‘T’roubador will be used by the W&L Film
Society, the Student Activities Board, and various academic de-
partments, many of whom show films as part of their curriculum.
For the ‘T'roubador project, the University purchased two recon-
ditioned professional 16 mm projectors. ‘The theater also is
equipped with a wide screen to show Cinemascope, and a sound
system that is designed to provide a simulated surround effect
has been installed. ‘The award-winning Chinese film Red Sorghum
was presented by the Society to open the theater in September.

‘The new Troubador also will be home to administrative
offices for W&L’s four sororities. ‘The total cost of renovations,
which were completed by the W&L buildings and grounds
department, was approximately $82,000.

“We now have a facility for film that the University can be
proud of,” said Claude E. “Flash” Floyd, director of the
University Library’s media center.

 

 

| ae
l

¢ PAGE 30/ THE

GAZETTE ¢

 

 

4

 

 

 

BOOKS HELE

 

 

 

 

Passion for Justice
by HARLAN R. BECKLEY

Professor of Religion
(Westminster/John Knox Press; $27)

This new book by Beckley,
a member of the Wasington and
Lee faculty since 1974, is
subtitled “Retrieving the
Legacies of Walter Rau-
schenbusch, John A. Ryan, and
Reinhold Niebuhr.” Itisalively
discussion of the thinking of
three of the most important re-
ligious thinkers in the 20th century.

Passion for Justice focuses on the theology, ethics, and policies
advocated by three of this century’s leading Protestant and Roman
Catholic thinkers. The author shows how each man’s conception of
justice is informed by and coheres with his theology. Beckley also
refines the systematic issues in Christian thinking about justice and
relates them to some current discussions and proposals of his own.
Beckley’s work has been called the most thorough study of the
theory of justice in the work of these important social thinkers.

Beckley, who currently teaches courses in historical and
contemporary Christian theology and ethics, earned his M.Div.,
M.A., and Ph.D. from Vanderbilt University.

 

Warren Buffett:

Jessie BallduPont

 

Roads Not Taken

by ROGER B. JEANS
Professor of History
(Westview Press; $54.95)

Studies of the political his-
tory of 20th-century China tra-
ditionally have been skewed
toward a two-dimensional view
of the major combatants: the
Chinese Communist Party and
the Guomindang. Although
theirstruggle has been the main
story, it is neither the only nor
the complete story. During the Republican period (1912 to 1949),
many educated Chinese rejected both one-party dictatorships, and
some boldly founded or supported alternative movements.

In this volume, edited by Washington and Lee’s professor of
Chinese and Japanese history, the contributors turn their attention
to these neglected parties, groups, and figures, making full use of
new materials to provide the first English-language book to study
these groups systematically. Tracing the post-1949 fates of some of
these opposition movements in Taiwan and the People’s Republic
of China (PRC), the book also explores the democratic activities in
the overseas Democract Movement that mushroomed after the
June 1989 massacre in China.

 

 

 

 

 

The Good Guy of Wall Street

by ANDREW KILPATRICK, ’65
(Donald I. Fine; $24)

Warren Buffett, the down-to-earth, ul-
tra-successful Nebraska native who took
the reins at Salomon Brothers in the wake of
its 1991 trading scandal, is profiled as “the
greatest investor of his generation” in this
biography by business reporter-turned-
stockbroker Andy Kilpatrick. Buffett, who
ranks eighth on the Forbes 400 list of the
richest people in America, built the Berk-
shire Hathaway investment company intoa
multi-billion-dollar empire.

A 20-year newspaper veteran, Kilpatrick
took a leave of absence from the Birming-
ham Post-Herald \ast summer to finish the
book and joined the Birmingham office of
Prudential Securities in September as a
stockbroker. Following the book’s publica-
tion, he was invited to lunch with Buffett,
who “asked me about the book like he
would examine the balance sheet of a com-
pany,” Kilpatrick recalls admiringly. He’s
at work on a follow-up book now.

by RICHARD G. HEWLETT
(University Press of Florida; $39.95)

Jessie Ball duPont, a member
of the Washington and Lee Board
of Trustees from 1959 to 1970 and
one of the University’s most gen-
erous benefactors, is portrayed asa
strident champion and supporter
of higher education in a recent
biography by Richard Greening
Hewlett.

The wife of Alfred I. duPont,
Mrs. duPont donated more than
$7 million in gifts to the Univer-
sity, and her endowment fund has
provided even more gifts to help
fund many University programs.

 

 

 

She created several substantial scholarship funds, to which she added considerable sums
frequently, and she contributed several million to various programs at the University and
for unexpected special needs. She was the first woman to serve on the Board of ‘Trustees,
and in 1947, she received the honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters from the
University. duPont Hall is named in her honor.

According to Linda K. Lorimer, president of Randolph-Macon Woman’s College,
Hewlett’s book “conveys Jessie Ball duPont’s extraordinary intellect, will, and philan-
thropic spirit as well as her complexity of character.”

 

THE GAZETT E/ PAGE 31

se |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Caudill: Simpler
rules one answer
to ethics dilemmas

ashington and Lee’s
David Caudill,
professor of law, told

the W&L Legal Ethics Insti-
tute in November that ethical
dilemmas can be decreased
through an expansion and
clarifying of the professional
codes of responsibility.

‘The answers to the growing problems in legal ethics may not
lie in a search for some moral higher ground, but in the establish-
ment of many more clear, bright-line rules that eliminate the
gray areas in the legal ethics decision-making process, Caudill
said.

Speaking at the 18th W&L Legal Ethics Institute, Caudill
reminded his audience of some recent cases that seem to
represent a growing danger in the ethical gray area of the crime/
fraud exception to confidentiality. “Should we feel sorry for
attorneys who choose, in the name of client confidentiality, not
to disclose client fraud,” he asked, “especially if they suffer
ethical sanctions or liability to third parties for that choice?”

The problem, Caudill explained, lies not necessarily in the
moral judgments that surround ethical decision-making, but
rather in the fact that this moralizing has to exist at all. If there
were unequivocal rules in place in the codes of professional
responsibility, lawyers wouldn’t be forced into difficult, often no-
win, ethics decisions. While clearer, simpler rules might be less
likely to be followed, it would, in any case, be clear when they
were being broken.

Caudill focused on the Virginia code’s disclosure rule, which
requires lawyers to “reveal any intention of any client to commit
any crime...unless the client abandons his plan.”

“In Virginia, we have a clear rule,” Caudill said. “Clarity is its
virtue. It may be dumb and ethically impoverished and likely to
be evaded, but it’s objective. In Ross Perot’s terminology, ‘it’s a
slam dunk,’ ‘no big deal,’ ‘small potatoes,’ ‘we opened the hood
and we fixed it.’ ”

Simple rules in professional responsibility codes free lawyers
from dealing with another immense complexity in a field overrun
with immense complexities, he added.

“The price of moral responsibility is going up and when your
livelihood and your family’s future and your law firm’s fate and
your malpractice insurance premiums are at stake, you appreciate
a simple, objective rule of ethics.

“The practice of law is simply too dangerous and the price of
subjectivity too high to make independent assessments. The
moral of this story is that the bright-line rules, even if they are
arbitrary, are to be preferred over potentially costly ethical judg-
ments about the line between confidentiality and disclosure duties.”

 

Professor Caudillspeaks at
Legal Ethics Institute.

 

Warren Court’s ‘revolution’ detailed
at 44th annual ‘lucker lecture

he Warren Court was led

by and composed of

outsiders who sided with
the underdogs, and the result
was an extraordinary Constitu-
tional revolution, according to
noted American legal historian
Morton J. Horwitz, who spoke
at the School of Law during
Homecoming Weekend.

Horwitz addressed a capa-
city crowd at the law school’s
Moot Court Room for the
44th annual John Randolph
‘Tucker Lecture on Oct. 2.
Each year, the Tucker
Lecture brings to campus a
distinguished legal mind for a
lecture given in honor of John
Randolph ‘Tucker, a former
professor and dean of the law
school. ‘The ‘Tucker Lecture
was established by the Board
of ‘Trustees in 1949.

‘The Supreme Court
under Earl Warren eventually
came to include a majority of
what Horwitz termed “out-
siders,” and their interpreta-
tion of the Constitution and
their particular emphasis and
resurrection of the idea of
inalienable rights as expressed
in the Declaration of Inde-
pendence helped bring about
what Horwitz called “a mira-
culous moment in American
constitutional history.” ‘That
moment started with, but was
not limited to, the celebrated
and much-discussed case of
Brown v. Board of Education.

“Let me propose that the
justices who made up the
Warren Court majority, in
different and complicated
ways, were themselves
outsiders,” he explained,
delineating the biographical
quirks that set Justices Black,

 

| oe
l

% PAGE 32/THE GAZETTE #% L

J

Douglass, Brennan, Goldberg,
and Marshall apart from the
mainstream.

But to understand its
decisions, the Warren Court
first must be understood for
what it was and what it came
to believe the U.S. Constitu-
tion was about.

‘The Court under Warren
made this connection with the
individual, largely because it
came to be constituted by
men who were not part of the
mainstream themselves,
Horwitz said. ‘These were
men, some of them politi-
cians, who were outside the
mainstream of what Horwitz
called “sophisticated legal
thought,” and they brought
with them “an outsider’s way
of talking about the law.”

“The Warren Court was
the first, and the only, court in
American Supreme Court
history that empathized with
the outsider, that viscerally
identified with the down-and-
out, the people who got the
raw deal, the marginal, the
unloved,” he said. “Not only
were there the decisions that
benefitted the blacks, but
other minorities, too, religious
minorities, political dissenters
through the free-speech cases,
illegitimates, poor people,
prisoners, and, if you'll allow
this addition, criminals.”

In conclusion, Horwitz
said, the decisions of the War-
ren Court period from 1953 to
1969, “didn’t happen by acci-
dent. They were shaped by
the biographical, social, and
historical factors surrounding
this court. It was a major
turning point in American
constitutional history.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI

NEWS

 

 

 

 

 

nega

    

ideal aa |

————EEE

 

Di Di Nees Ne, Bee, ee, Bee |

 

 

 

)

before their Sunday afternoon cruise Oct.25 in Los Angeles Harbor.

full fall

Autumn brings with it
changing colors on the leaves
of the trees, but nothing was
changing this fall in the
always busy W&L alumni
social schedule. ‘There were a
number of chapters celebrat-
ing fall with gatherings, parties,
and receptions.

Detroit’s chapter parti-
cipated in an Old Dominion
Fall Gathering, while the New
York chapter had its second
annual Fall Party in Septem-
ber. In Massachusetts, the
New England chapter held a
Sunset Cocktail Party to “bid
farewell to summer.”

Patricia and Jim Lipscomb
III, °58, were hosts for a fall
cocktail reception for the South
Carolina Piedmont chapter in
October, while the Washington,
D.C., chapter held its third
annual pig roast in late October.

‘The Chicago chapter
participated in an Old Domin-

ion Social at Harry Caray’s in
Chicago, and the Sarasota
chapter got together for a cock-
tail reception in November. @

Games alumni play

The 1992 W&L Chicago
Alumni Tennis Challenge
Classic resulted in victory for
the W&L doubles team of
Jim DeYoung, ’65, and Ted
Martin, 80. DeYoung was
captain of the 1964 W&L
tennis team. DeYoung-Martin
defeated the team of Peter
MeNitt (Amherst ’76) and
Jerry James (Dartmouth ’81)
in three sets, 6-3, 2-6, 6-3.
The victors dubbed the title
match “W&L versus Over-
valued New England Colleges.”

Elsewhere on fields of play,
the Dallas/Fort Worth chapters
held their annual golf tourna-
ment at the Hyatt Bear Creek,
while the New Orleans
chapter met for its annual golf
and tennis tournament at the
New Orleans Country Club. &

tHMQAty tga
tT

Baa) 144

‘

WW,
li

re i
or

Cae

More games

W&L’s fall and winter
athletic teams provided an
opportunity for a number of
alumni chapters to hold
meetings, tailgate parties, or
special seminars, too.

The men’s soccer team
was cause for a reception
hosted by the Baltimore chap-
ter, while the women’s team
received the same treatment a
week later when it was in the
area for a game with the
College of Notre Dame.

W&L’s football schedule
provided alumni in the North
Carolina and Kentucky areas
the opportunity to experience
the much-praised Robert E.
Lee seminar, a bounteous
tailgate feast, and a Generals
victory in the same day. The
Eastern Kentucky chapter
welcomed W&L history
professors Holt Merchant, ’61,
and ‘Taylor Sanders, who pre-
sented their seminar, “Robert
E. Lee: Soldier and Educator,”
prior to a tailgate party and

LOS ANGELES—Menmtbers of the Los Angeles area and Orange County chapters and their spouses and dates pose aboard the M/V Pacific Spirit

 

|. we

 

| °

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 33 ¢

\ yp 4

 

 

>.

Generals victory over Centre
College in September. ‘The
same scenario was played out
prior to the W&L games with
Davidson (hosted by the
Charlotte chapter) and Guilford
(hosted by the Greensboro
and Winston-Salem chapters).
W&L special guests at the
Eastern Kentucky event were
Rob Mish, ’76, assistant alumni
director, and Matt Felber, ’92,
alumni staff associate, while
Jim Farrar Jr., °74, alumni
director, was at the Charlotte
event, and Rob Fure, director
of special programs, and
Felber represented W&L at
the Greensboro event.

In November, the W&L
basketball team’s season-
opening trip to the Trinity
(Texas) ‘Tip-Off ‘Tournament
gave W&L Athletic Director
Mike Walsh the chance to
visit chapters in the South-
west. Walsh and Farrar were
special guests at cocktail
receptions held by the
Phoenix and San Antonio
chapters and a luncheon held

 

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI

NEWS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TUCSON—WS&LAthletic Director Mike Walshis flanked by(left)Al
Perry,’54,andchapter president Ron Sommer, '66L, atacocktailreception.

by the ‘Tucson chapter.

Veteran W&L basketball
players gathered for the annual
alumni basketball game at
W&L in mid-November. A
post-game dinner was hosted
by the W&L Alumni Asso-
ciation, the W&L department
of athletics, and the Rockbridge
chapter.

In other veteran sports
action, the W&L alumni men’s
tennis team, which featured a
host of former All-Americans
and national champions,
turned the tables on the cur-
rent W&L squad 6-3 during
Homecoming Weekend. @

 

guest list

Special W&L guests
attended a number of recep-
tions, luncheons, and dinners
this fall, as well. Farrar gave the
Southside (Va.) chapter a
Lexington update at its cocktails
and dinner gathering in Septem-
ber, while assistant director of
admissions Angelia Allen was
a special guest at the New
Orleans chapter’s reception to
meet prospective students.

Jim Farrar Sr.,°49, former
director of admissions at
W&L, and his wife, Anne,

fp
me th

W&L current director of
foundations and corporate
support, represented the
University at the London
chapter’s cocktail reception at
the Rules.

In Houston, the chapter
enjoyed a Mexican food night

 

 

LONDON—Assistant Director of Development Anne Farrar joins Chip
Skinner, ‘84 (left),andchapter president Kent Suttle, ’90, atthe Rules.

 

 

 

ort in

HOUSTON—Gatheringfora Mexicanfiestaatthe McFallhomewere(fromleft) Joel Mohrman,’77 Don
McFall,’64,’69L and trustees Steve Marks, ’59 and Buck Ogilvie, 64.

President Robert E.R.
Huntley, ’50, °57L, was a
special guest.

A number of other
luncheons featured W&L
speakers, including a Roanoke
chapter luncheon in October,
where W&L professor of

at the home of Donna and
Don McFall, 64, ’69L, with
W&L professor of administra-
tion Philip Cline, ’67, in
attendance as a special guest.
‘The ‘Tidewater (Va.) chapter
was host to a fall luncheon in
Norfolk, where former W&L

 

wr
+?
_ °

PAGE 34/ THE

——

GAZETTE ¢@

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI

 

NEWS

 

 

 

 

PHOENIX—Everett Cross, '32(left),and Burchard Pruett, ’27,remi-
nisce at the Regal McCormick resort in Scottsdale Nov. 18.

 

ALUMNITENNIS—Fromleft) Clay Richards, '96;Richard Y ates, 92; Billy Tunner,’90; Bobby Matthews,
‘89,941; Robert Haley, 89; Bill Meadows, ’91;Chris MacNaughton, 96; Kelly Vandever, ’92; Robby
MacNaughton, 94; followingamatch Homecoming Weekend. The alumni defeated the undergrads, 6-3.

politics Bob Strong spoke on
“The Making of the President
1992.” At its October luncheon,
the Richmond chapter
listened to David Howison
give an update on the state of
student life at the University,
while the Kansas City

awa
yG TENNIS

st

 

chapter’s luncheon event
featured alumni board mem-
ber Henry “Skip” Nottberg,
71, and Associate Director of
Development David Long. @

 

 

- : a
. .
: ' : Asta
' 7 .
; re : SS
+ s* S Py 5
5 + . r
ca _ ™ a
\ a are re.
? ‘ + e
‘ Fi <= YS. reg.”
A : ms A : =
bs : " - . oY ae,
‘ - ;
. ; 7 > ey
> \ +> “og
é -
' ~ ~ 2
v * &
aad : : Sew ~ . a as
, es
>» i s = 7 = “i

DAVIDSON—Clancy Ballinger, ’'44,and Don Bain, ’49L, chatoverold
times at a tailgate party prior to the Davidson-W&L football game Oct. 10.

’48, for a Business Forum
meeting in September. The
San Francisco Bay Area chap-
ter joined forces with the
Vanderbilt and the Brown
clubs to host a lecture given
by Erwin C. Hargrove, chair-
man and professor of political
science at Vanderbilt.

‘The Los Angeles and
Orange County chapters spon-
sored an afternoon aboard the
M/V Pacific Spirit for a Los
Angeles harbor cruise and
dinner. ‘The San Francisco
Bay Area chapter also spon-
sored an afternoon in Napa
with master sommelier
Frederick L. Dame, ’75, in
November.

The Mid-South chapter
held a cocktail reception and
private viewing of “Impres-
sions of America: ‘The Warner
Collection of Gulf States
Paper Corporation” in Novem-
ber. Special guest for the
evening was Jack Warner, *40,
collector. @

Other chapter events

The Arkansas chapter
participated in an event
sponsored by the University
of Arkansas-Little Rock that
brought noted journalist and
alumnus Charlie McDowell,

 

| of

l

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE3 @ |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nominating Committee Appointed

Each year a three-member nominating committee is impaneled to fill vacant
seats on the Alumni Board of Directors and to elect an alumni representative to

the University Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

 

MEMBERS OF THIS YEAR’S COMMITTEE

J.RichardO’Connell,’56

President

Constellation Real Estate, Inc.
8815 Centre Park Drive

Suite 400

Columbia, MD 21045

(410) 730-9092

James E. Dunn,Jr., 82

Chairman

Coleman Envelope and Printing Co.
117 S. Walnut Circle

P.O. Box 8129

Greensboro, NC 27419

(919) 852-4006

Under Article 9 of the By-Laws of the Washington and Lee Alumni Inc., the

names and addresses of the members of the Alumni Association may submit
names of alumni to the Nominating Committee for nomination to the offices to

be filled.

‘The Nominating Committee is now receiving the names of candidates to fill
five seats on the Alumni Board of Directors and the vacancy on the University

Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

Guy H. Kerr,’75

Attorney/Shareholder
Locke Purnell Rain Harrell
2200 Ross Ave., Suite 2200
Dallas, TX 75201

(214) 740-8000

Alumni may send names directly to any members of the committee through

the office of the Executive Secretary of the Alumni Association.

 

 

W&L Open to be held at the Cascades

he first annual Washington and Lee Open will be held
July 24 and 25 at the legendary Cascades course at the
Homestead in Hot Springs, Va.

The W&L Open is an offshoot of the W&L Invitational
that has been played for the last two years at the Homestead.
The Invitational was created a few years ago by Rob Fure,
director of alumni programs, to be played in conjunction with
the annual summer Alumni Colleges. ‘The W&L Open will
be played after the conclusion of the Alumni Colleges and is
open to all members of the Washington and Lee family.

“With the success we have enjoyed in the Invitational, we
wanted to create a golf event for the entire W&L family,” said
Jim Farrar Jr., °74, director of alumni programs and one of the
organizers of the event. “We are trying to organize an event
that will appeal to all ages and golfers of all levels of proficiency.”

Festivities for the Open will begin on Friday, July 23,
with a dinner at the Alumni House on campus. Golfers and
spouses will spend Friday night at Gaines Hall. Following a
group breakfast on Saturday, golfers and spouses will head for

Hot Springs. ‘Tee times for the first round will begin around
11 a.m. A special dinner will be provided Saturday night, as
well as breakfast on Sunday morning. All golfers and spouses
will stay at the Cascades Inn adjacent to the golf course.
Sunday tee times will begin around 9 a.m., with the awards
ceremony taking place as soon as the final group has finished.
A spouse program for non-golfers is also planned.

‘The format will be a basic 36-hole tournament using
handicaps. ‘That is, the golfer with the lowest 36-hole score
after adjusting for handicaps will be declared the winner.
There will also be awards for the longest drive, closest to the
pin, and low gross on each day. Men’s and women’s divisions
are planned.

The cost for the W&L Open is $299. That price includes
four meals and twococktail receptions, room in Gaines Hall, two
rounds of golf with cart and bag handling charges at the Cascades,
a night at the Cascades Inn, prizes and other giveaways.

For more information, contact Jim Farrar at the W&L
Alumni Office, (703) 463-8464, or via fax at (703) 463-8473.

 

 

 

| PAGE36/THE GAZETTE ¢ |

 

AND THEIR ADDRESSES ARE LISTED BELOW:

 

 

 

 

‘The New Civil War

Novelist and Historian Shelby Foote
argues both sides to a Lee Chapel audience

  
 

Shelby Footewears two hats. Asa novelist, the Greenville, Miss., native
io has nine books (including Shiloh and September, September) and a play
to his credit. But he has won even greater fame as a historian, including his
three-volume ‘The Civil War: A Narrative, an epic that was 20 years in the
making, and his prominent supporting rolein Ken Burns’ hugely popular
PBS documentary, ‘Vhe Civil War.

In these excerpts from his remarks at Lee Chapel Dec. 1 as the third
speaker in Washington and Lee’s Robert L. Telford Distinguished Lecture
series, Foote discusses the ongoing debate between novelists and historians as
wellas the art of writing—wtth a little Crvil War for good measure.

Shelby Foote at Lee Chapel (Peter Cronin photo).

On the relationship between the nov-
elist and historian: Both are seeking
the same thing: the truth, not a differ-
ent truth—the same truth. Only they
reach, or try to reach, it by different
routes. Whether an event took place in
a world now gone to dust, preserved by
documents and evaluated by scholar-
ship, or in the imagination, preserved
by memory and distilled by the cre-
ative process, they both want to tell us
how it was—to recreate it by their
separate methods and make it live
again in the world around them.

The basic difference, I suppose, is
that the historian attempts this by
communicating facts, whereas the
novelist would communicate sensa-
tion. The one stresses action, the other
reaction. And yet the two are not her-
metically sealed off from one another.
The novelist certainly uses facts and
surely the historian considers the im-
pact of events. There is some sealing
off. Too many novelists won't read
history, and too many historians can’t
read novels. ... And it may be that as a
novelist I’m biased, yet it seems to me
that the historian commits the greater

O «Nee eie Bs

wrong in this respect by refusing what
the novelist has to offer, especially in
matters of technique.

On technique: Too many would con-
sider it some form of trickery or slight
of hand, whereby events are manipu-
lated and givena false gloss. Well, that’s
true the kind of technique which has
produced our historical novel that has
been developed down the years, and
Hollywood Christianity—products
both of sentimentality, the cardinal sin
of art. But while it is true that the card
sharp has his technique, I would re-
mind you that I’m speaking of the
honest novelist.

On the “lazy” historian: Historians
are writers too... but unlike other
serious writers all too many of them
not only want to skip (a) sweatshop
apprenticeship, they do skip it. And the
result is . .. a prose so wretched that
the footnotes with which it’s cluttered
are more a relief than interruption.

On writers in general: Theyare notto
be associated with. They are concerned
about themselves in a way beyond
anybody’s right to be. And they have to

be. If they’re not that way, they’re not
writers. So they re best avoided, unless
you’ re willing to marry one of them and
lay down your life with this egotistical
creature.

On writing: Itcomes from acquiringa
private vision of life, a way, as I said, of
seeing the world, and this is altogether
beyond the reach of most of us... . It
comes, too, from hard and private work,
necessarily a lonely business best ac-
complished ata table drawn up in front
of a blank wall at which to stare be-
tween attempts to learn the craft of
putting words together. .. . Hard, soli-
tary work is to an artist what prayer is to
a priest.

On historical novels: I resentthe hell
out of any writer presuming to put
words inan historical character. ... [just
don’t read historical novels if they’re
trying to tell me what General Lee was
thinking while the charge was going on
at Gettysburg. And I especially don’t
like novels where George Washington
takes the hero aside and gives him a
little advice about his love life.

Ged: 2 NS INA

 

 

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

37

 

‘The Generals’ Report

 

 

. \ . -
-
a /
>
ae
Ph ’ / :
: we +

Michael MacLane (36) scored three touchdowns

| he hardest thing to do

during the 1992 fall sports sea-
son at Washington and Lee was

   

to stop and savor the moment.

A season full of unexpected
success—success that got a big boost
from younger players—had many
observers looking down the road to the
youngsters’ continued improvement.

Coach Gary Fallon’s football team
posted a 54 record with a squad of more
freshmen than the rest of the classes
combined. Coach Jim Phemister’s
women’s cross country team became
one of the region’s elite due in large
measure to freshmen and sophomores.
Coach Kristi Yarter’s volleyball team

38 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

BY BRIAN LOGUE

a

against Hampden-Sydney October 17 before separating his shoulder in the fourth quarter.

surpassed everyone’s expectations with
a starting lineup of three freshmen.

Of course, the veterans had their
moments as well. Coach Rolf Piranian’s
men’s soccer team rebounded from a
slow start to close out the careers of six
talented seniors with a flourish. Men’s
cross country Coach John ‘Tucker
needed only to look and see Bo Hannah
step up to the starting line and know
that things were under control. Women’s
soccer Coach Janine Hathorn had only
one senior, but a strong junior class led
the Generals back to the ODAC Final
Four, and last but certainly not least
was Coach Page Remillard’s water polo
team, which combined experience and
youth to post the program’s 16th straight
winning season while winning the
Division III] Eastern Championship.

    

FOOTBALL

After a 1-9 season in 1991, no one
really knew what to expect from the
Generals in 1992. More than 50 of the
players on the team were freshmen and
sophomores, but talent proved to be
much more valuable than experience.

W&L sandwiched a 32-22 win over
Centre around losses to Emory & Henry
and Randolph-Macon and then hit its
stride. W&L beat Davidson (27-12),
Hampden-Sydney (24-21), and Sewanee
(17-16) on three consecutive Saturdays
to the delight of the W&L following.

Sophomore running back Michael
MacLane was the big star in the David-
son and Hampden-Sydney games.
MacLane ran for 152 yards a touchdown
against Davidson and added three
receptions for 59 yards and another

couchdown for good measure. ‘The
following week, he ran for 87 yards and
three touchdowns against Hampden-
Sydney, but suffered a separated
shoulder that forced him out for the
remainder of the season.

The season’s unlikeliest story then
unfolded. Tom Mason, a starting defen-
sive back in 1990, missed the 1991 season
with a back injury. He came back in 1992
as a wide receiver, but then switched to
running back after MacLane’s injury. In
his first start he followed his burly offen-
sive line and powerful full-back Wilson
Moore for 97 yards on just 19 carries to
spearhead a 17-16 upset over Sewanee,
which came to Wilson Field undefeated
and ranked fourth in the South region.

W&L lost to Bridgewater 20-12 the
next week despite the one-man show of
wide receiver William Propst, who had
13 catches for 133 of quarterback Geren
Steiner’s 239 passing yards.

W&L clinched its first winning sea-
son since 1988 with a 21-0 blanking of
Guilford in Week Eight. Ma-

CROSS COUNTRY

The two things that you needed to
know about cross country at W&L this
fall were simple: Bo and Josephine.

Senior Bo Hannah was once again
the force of the men’s team, while
freshman Josephine Schaeffer elevated
the women’s program from a team
fighting not to finish last at the
regionals to one of the region’s best.

Schaeffer lost only twice all season,
at the ODAC Championship when she
lost a big lead by going off course and
at the NCAA Division III Champion-
ships where she finished 12th to
become W&L’s first woman to earn
All-America status in cross country.

The talented freshman won each
of her other seven races, including the
regional championship, while shatter-
ing the school record. Schaeffer ran a
time of 17:54 in leading W&L to its
first-ever state championship. ‘The
school record entering the season was
19:09, set by Cecily Tynan in 1989.

W&L won its second ODAC title
in three years and finished third at this
year’s regional. Senior Nicole Casteel,
freshman Amy Mears, and sophomore
Kim Herring all earned All-L ODAC
honors and Schaeffer and Mears earned
all-region honors.

The men’s team had another solid
season, finishing second at the ODAC
Championship and seventh at the
regional meet. Hannah led W&L in
every race for the second straight year
while earning All-ODAC and all-region
honors and qualifying for the NCAAs
for the second straight year. Senior
Keith Rinn also had a big year, earning
All-ODAC honors with his fifth-place
finish at the ODAC Championship.

WATER POLO

Aside from a mid-season slump,
Coach Page Remillard couldn’t have
asked for more from the Generals.
W&L finished the year with a 16-10
record, finished second at the
Southern Water Polo

 

son carried 37 times for 184
yards anda TD, but this game
belonged to the defense.
W&L held Guilford to 106
yards total offense, including
minus-3 yards rushing, while
forcing four turnovers.

 

Se

The season ended with a
27-19 loss to Georgetown, but
that hardly took the glow off a

 

 

 

special season for W&L.
Propst, offensive lineman
John Surface, punter Bob
Ehret and freshman kicker
Drew Thomas, who provided
the heroics in the Sewanee
win, all were named first team
All-ODAC. Defensive tackle
Phil Spears, linebacker Lyle
Smith and defensive back
Marc Newman all earned sec-
ond team honors while Fallon
was named Coach of the Year.
Four W&L players also made
the GTE Academic All-Dis-
trict team: Evans Edwards,
Spears, Surface, and Duane
Van Arsdale.

 

(top photo), junior Greg Golub (

In water polo
steals. In cross country (above), freshman Josephine Schaeffer and senior Bo Hannah
led their respective squads.

Conference Championship,
and won the Division III
Eastern Championship with
an 11-9 win over Johns
Hopkins at W&L.

The Generals lost seven
of nine games at one point but
finished with five straight vic-
tories, including wins over
Wesleyan, Williams, and Hop-

 

 

  

 

” sac TERT cose GN ee?

   

3) led W&L in goals, assists and

kins at the Division III tourney.

And as always, the
Generals had their battles
with arch-rival Richmond.
The two schools met five
times, and the five meetings
were decided by a combined
total of just 11 goals. W&L
came out on the winning end
of three of those games,
including an 8-6 victory at the
Twombly Pool before an
overflow crowd on a Friday
night in October.

 

   

Junior Greg Golub earned
first team All-Southern honors
and led W&L in goals (73),

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 39

 

assists (38), and steals (46). Seniors four of its final five games of the year.
S C) R | Chris Hagge and P.J. Waicus, a goalie, Just 4-7 entering the final week of

 

both made second team All-Conference. the regular season, the Generals got
things rolling with a 9-0 blanking of

Football (5-4) Bridgewater at Brewbaker Field in
. : ” ’ . ‘ :
Emory & Henry 41, W&L 13 MEN’S SOCCER W&L’s first night home game. Mike
W&L 32, Centre 22 ; : . .
Randolph-Macon 31, W&L 9* The men’s soccer team finished Mitchem scored a hat trick to lead the
eee arse een fe the season with an 8-8 record, but won W&L charge. The following Saturday,

W&L 24, Hampden-Sydney 21*
W&L 17, Sewanee 16
Bridgewater 20, W&L 12*
W&L 21, Guilford 0*
Georgetown 27, W&L 19
*ODAC games

 

 

a

Men’s Cross Country (19-14)

Mary Washington 21, W&L 40, Norfolk
State DQ

3rd of 5 at Christopher Newport Invitational

8th of 12 at Frostburg Invitational

Lynchburg 22, W&L 43, Catholic 63

3rd of 7 at State Championships

2nd of 7 at W&L Invitational

W&L 27, Eastern Mennonite 28, Hampden-
Sydney DQ

2nd at ODAC Championships

7th at Division III SSE Regional

Women’s Cross Country (22-4)

Mary Washington 24, W&L 31,
Sweet Briar 95, Shepherd 98

2nd of 5 at Dickinson Invitional

2nd of 9 at Frostburg Invitional

2nd of 7 at D.C. Invitational

Ist of 5 at State Championships

ist of 2 at W&L Invitational

ist at ODAC Championships

3rd at Division III SSE Regional

Men’s Soccer (8-8)

W&L 4, Manhattanville 0
Franklin & Marshall 3, W&L 1
W&L 1, Johns Hopkins 0
Guilford 6, W&L 3

Bethany 3, W&L 0

W&L 2, Eastern Mennonite 0
Roanoke 1, W&L 0 (2OT)
W&L 2, Hampden-Sydney 0
Greensboro 2, W&L 1 (2OT)
Randolph-Macon 1, W&L 0
Virginia Wesleyan 4, W&L 0
W&L 9, Bridgewater 0

W&L 8, Lynchburg 0

W&L 3, Hampden-Sydney 0*
Randolph-Macon 1, W&L 0*
W&L 3, VMI 2

*ODAC Tournament

eee —
SS

Women’s Soccer (5-11)
Virginia Wesleyan 1, W&L 0

W&L 6, Randolph-Macon Woman’s 1
W&L 1, Hollins 0

Denison 4, W&L 0

Randolph-Macon 3, W&L 0

Notre Dame (Md.) 2, W&L 0
Roanoke 3, W&L 1

Mary Washington 3, W&L 0

Sweet Briar 1, W&L 0

Gettysburg 2, W&L 0

W&L 2, Guilford 1 (2OT)

Methodist 2,W&LO a
W&L 2, Lynchburg 0 es Q He oars

>

a
~~ 4 ao
. res

 

:

Pare

Heads-up play by the Generals resulted in an 8-0 blanking of Lynchburg in soccer October 24.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

40 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

the Generals knocked off Lynchburg
8-0 to head into the ODAC ‘Tourna-
ment on a roll.

The Generals beat Hampden-
Sydney 3-0 in the opening round
before losing a heartbreaker 1-0 to
Randolph-Macon in the semifinals.
Macon scored the game-winning goal
with just three minutes to play.

W&L closed out its season with a wild
3-2 win at VMI in the City Champion-
ship game. W&L took a 2-0 lead into
the final ten minutes of the game, but
the Keydets scored two quick goals to
fire up a large gathering of the Corps.
Senior Michael Hill took it upon
himself to quiet the crowd with his
final W&L goal with 3:51 to play off a
pass from fellow senior Reid Murphy.

Senior back Greg Williams made
first team All-ODAC for the third
straight year and Murphy made second
team. Both Williams and Murphy made
either first or second team All-ODAC
all four years, the first players in school
history to accomplish that feat.

WOMEN’S SOCCER

A young women’s soccer team
finished just 5-11 against a top-flight
schedule, but went 4 in the ODAC and
advanced to the conference semifinals.

The Generals’ list of losses looked
like a Who’s Who of Division III soccer:
Denison, Notre Dame, Roanoke, Mary
Washington, Gettysburg, Methodist,
Randolph-Macon, and Messiah, to
name a few.

Junior Angie Carrington led W&L
in scoring with five goals and one assist
to earn second team All-ODAC honors.
First-year player Anne Spruill had four
goals and freshman Jenni Robison had
three goals and three assists. Susan
Moseley, the lone senior, set a school
single-season record with six assists and
also become the career leader with
nine.

The defense featured first team
All-ODAC pick Aspen Yawars, a junior,
and second team All-ODAC pick
Allison Lewis, also a junior. Junior Kate
Stimeling moved back to goal after

starting the year as a midfielder and
added two shutouts to up her career
total to a school-record 19.

VOLLEYBALL

Interim Coach Kristi Yarter led the
Generals to a 13-14 record with a lineup
that featured three freshmen, a sopho-
more, and only one senior. ‘The Generals
pulled off several upsets and almost beat
defending conference champion
Guilford, and the spirited group lost in
straight games only six times all year.

W&L opened its home season
with a win over Carnegie Mellon in the
W&L Invitational. CMU was the
defending champion in the tourna-
ment. The Generals opened their
conference season with a five-game loss
to Guilford. W&L led 2-1, but Guilford
rallied for the final two games, includ-
ing a 15-12 win in the deciding game.

After a loss to Eastern Mennonite
the Generals got hot, winning seven of
their next eight matches. Included in
that streak was an ODAC win over
Roanoke and a second-place finish at
the Notre Dame (Md.) tournament.
The season ended with a quarterfinal
loss to Eastern Mennonite in four
games in the ODAC tourney.

Senior Leslie Hess was named
second team All-ODAC and also made
the GTE Academic All-District team.
Freshman Chrissie Hart led W&L in
kills (193), hitting percentage (.208), and
set a new school record with 69 blocks.

Messiah 4, W&L 2

W&L 4, Lynchburg 0*
Randolph-Macon 2, W&L 0*
*ODAC Tournament

Volleyball (13-14)

W&L def. Christopher Newport 3-0
St. Mary’s (Md.) def. W&L 3-2
W&L def. Carnegie Mellon 2-0
Maryville def. W&L 2-0

Sewanee def. W&L 2-1

Goucher def. W&L 2-1

W&L def. Washington & Jefferson 2-1
Guilford def. W&L 3-2

Asbury def. W&L 3-2

W&L def. Gallaudet 3-0
Thomas More def. W&L 3-0

Union def. W&L 3-0

Eastern Mennonite def. W&L 3-0
W&L def. Roanoke 3-2

W&L def. Mary Baldwin 2-0

W&L def. Randolph-Macon Woman’s 3-1
Bridgewater def. W&L 3-0
W&L def. Notre Dame (Md.) 2-0
W&L def. Wilmington 2-0
W&L def. Stockton State 2-1

W&L def. Goucher 2-0
Pitt-Johnstown def. W&L 2-0
W&L def. Lynchburg 3-1

Emory & Henry def. W&L 3-1
W&L def. Sweet Briar 3-0

Hollins def. W&L 3-2

Eastern Mennonite def. W&L 3-1*
*ODAC Tournament

Water Polo (16-10)

W&L 18, Hampden-Sydney 6
W&L 12, Johns Hopkins 11
W&L 11, Richmond 10 (2OT)
Massachusetts 15, W&L 7

W&L 14, Brown 12

W&L 16, Queens (N.Y.) 12
Slippery Rock 19, W&L 3

W&L 19, Virginia 12°

W&L 14, Hampden-Sydney 2*
Richmond 16, W&L 10*

W&L 20, Hampden-Sydney 18
Richmond 14, W&L 13

Dayton 9, W&L 8
Arkansas-Little Rock 13, W&L 11
Slippery Rock 18, W&L 6

W&L 16, Queens 10

Navy 15, W&L 3

Johns Hopkins 11, W&L 9 (OT)
W&L 8, Richmond 6

W&L 8, Richmond 7**
Arkansas-Little Rock 9, W&L 6**
W&L 19, Hampden-Sydney 12**
W&L 9, Dayton 8**

W&L 24, Wesleyan 5#

W&L 19, Williams 114

W&L 11, Johns Hopkins 94
*Virginia Championships

** Southern Championships

#Eastern Division II] Championships

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 41

2 2 DR. HARRY

LYONS, former professor of
dentistry at Virginia Com-
monwealth University, has
had a Distinguished Profes-
sorship in dentistry estab-
lished in his name. A $250,000
endowment was contributed
by his former students.

"28
COL. JULIUS GOLDSTEIN re-

cently donated to the Jewish War Veterans Na-
tional Memorial a large set of letters, photographs,
newsclippings, and museum memorabilia, which
outline and detail his extraordinary career in the
United States military.

‘THOMAS O. MURPHEY reports that

he recently shot his age in golf on his 80th birthday
at the Austin Country Club in Austin, Texas.

CHARLES H. REASOR retired in

May and plays golf whenever possible. He lives in
St. Louis.

GEORGE E. CRISP spent 26 days in

March touring India and Nepal, where he rode
elephants and photographed rhinoceroses.

THE HON. BEVERLY T. FITZ-

PATRICK is chairman of his church’s centennial
celebration. He also is president of the Jefferson
Center Foundation, which is restoring his high
school to a center for the performing arts, educa-
tion, and social studies. He makes his home in
Roanoke, Va.

FRANK L. PASCHAL JR. retired 10 years ago and
travels extensively with his wife, Hope. Paschal
reports that he has visited all 50 states and the
South Pacific. He and his wife have a vacation
home in Tucson, Ariz.

EARLE P. BROWN was recently in-

ducted into the Washington Business Hall of Fame.

DR. HAVEN W. MANKIN reports that he is still
doing watercolor painting, and spends time going
to workshops and presenting his work at exhibi-
tions. He lives in Oklahoma City.

THE REV. STANDROD T. CAR-

MICHAEL retired in 1991 as the first vicar of the
Church of the Good Shepherd in Galax, Va. After
six months of travel in Europe and the near East, he
returned to Galax to serve as the volunteer director
of the Hostel of the Good Shepherd.

"46
ROBERT H. GRAY is semi-retired

and active in public service and community organi-
zations in Milwaukee.

42 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

WASHINGTON «AND*eLEE*UNIVERSITY «ALUMNI

CLASS NOTES

WARREN U. OBER received the Dis-

tinguished ‘Teacher Award from the University of
Waterloo in Ontario, Canada. Ober is a professor of
English and has served as the chair of the English
Department, acting dean of arts, and director of the
Inter-Faculty Programme Board.

Law: THE HON. BEVERLYT. FITZPATRICK
(see °43).

COL. PAUL J.B. MURPHY JR. was

inducted into the Sigma Nu Hall of Honor in
ceremonies held during the 55th Grand Chapter
last summer in Dallas. The Hall of Honor is the
highest distinction the general fraternity can be-
stow upon a brother. Murphy was cited for his
service to his country through a distinguished mili-
tary career; to his university both as a student leader
and as an alumni leader whose vision and dedica-
tion were largely responsible for the W&L Frater-
nity Renaissance Program; and to his fraternity for
spearheading the rechartering of Lambda Chapter
Sigma Nu in the early 1980s. In addition, Murphy
served as a division commander for the national
fraternity and directed the developmentand imple-
mentation of the Sigma Nu L.E.A.D. program as a
member of the board of directors of the Sigma Nu
Educational Foundation.

RICHARD H. TURRELL was awarded an honor-
ary Doctor of Laws degree from Monmouth Col-
lege in New Jersey. Turrell is senior vice president
of Fiduciary Trust Co. International in New York,
and has been a member of the board of trustees of
Monmouth College since 1980.

ARTHUR MARENSTEIN retired

from teaching high school and junior high social
studies. He reports that ailments kept him from
working out at the YMCA this summer, but he
hopes to recover soon.

D1
ROGER P. WALDEN is a vice presi-

dent for finance and real estate with NationsBank
in Richmond, Va.

JERE N. MOORE JR. and his wife,

Kay, recently celebrated their 40th wedding anni-
versary and held a housewarming for their Wacissa
River retreat.

‘THOMAS B. PERKINS has retired and is now
pursuing a graduate degree in English history. He
lives in Boise, Idaho.

BENJAMIN P. WALDEN recently resigned his
position with California Thoroughbred Sales. He
now works at forming horse partnerships and does
equine consulting.

Law: THE HON. JAMES
H. FLIPPEN JR. is a juve-
nile and domestic relations
court judge in Norfolk, Va.

"54 DR. CARL D,

SWANSON has’ been

named professor emeritus by
James Madison University. He recently had a book
published titled Confidentiality and Privileged Com-
munication. Swanson lives in Grottoes, Va.

Law: JOHN P. WARD has retired as corporate
secretary of Ashland Oil Inc. In addition, Ward
recently received a Distinguished Service Award
from the Marshall University Alumni Association.
He and his wife, Anne, live in Bellefonte, Ky.

"BS
TTHE HON. LAURENCE LEVITAN,

Maryland State Senator, has become Of Counsel to
the law firm of Baker & Hostetler in Washington,
D.C. He will concentrate his practice in administra-
tive law, general business, and real estate.

THE HON. PAUL H. WEINSTEIN has been
appointed County Administrative Judge of the Cir-
cuit Court for Montgomery in Maryland. His major
duties include supervision of all judges, officers,
and employees of the court; supervision and dispo-
sition of cases filed under his jurisdiction; and
control of the trial calendar.

D6
DR. RUPERT F. CHISHOLM JR. is

a professor of management at Penn State Univer-
sity at Harrisonburg. He and his wife, Virginia, live
in Gettysburg, Pa.

a
WILLIAM L. KAUFFMAN is now

manager of floor covering services for Arbee Asso-
ciates, a major retailer of business furnishings in
northern New Jersey.

Law: DR. CARL D. SWANSON (see °54).

MARION MAXWELL CASKIE III

(see SHERWOOD W. WISE JR., ’63).

CHARLES P. CORN recently authored the book
Distant Islands: Travels Across Indonesia, which was
published by Viking Penguin Press. The novel/
travel book was written in the first person and based
loosely on Corn’s travels through Indonesia.Corn is
a free-lance writer living in San Francisco.

JAMES J. CRAWFORD JR. retired from Sun Co.
Inc., and is currently consulting the international
petroleum industry in Shreveport, La.

RODGER P. DOYLE is director of the Lakeview
Foundation in Pensacola, Fla.

WILLIAM R. GOODMAN JR., professor of reli-
gious studies at Lynchburg College in Virginia, is
author of an article on I Esdras that is included in
the newly published Anchor Bible Dictionary.
Goodman’s article explains the origins and mean-
ing of the book of the Apocrypha. The Anchor Bible
Dictionary is the most comprehensive English lan-
guage Bible dictionary ever written.

HENRY F. LEBRUN JR. lives in Owings Mills,
Md., and is enjoying his daughter Sarah’s success
as an amateur golfer.

ROBERT B.LURATE opened ahistorical shop in
Lexington, Va., that specializes in Confederate,
Virginia, World War II, and Washington and Lee
artifacts.

W.C. MILLER has been appointed vice president
and general counsel of Collagen Corp., where he
will be responsible for legal affairs, patents, and
trademarks. Collagen is a technology-based com-
pany that develops, manufactures, and markets
biomedical devices for the treatment of defective,
diseased, traumatized, or aging human tissues.

HARRY MOSES formed his own TV production
company that creates movies and specials for the
networks. Moses, formerly of CBS’ “Sixty Min-
utes,” spends a great deal of time writing and
directing. He lives in New York City.

JOHN P. MOYER became president of the Lead-
ership Youngstown (Ohio) Alumni Association and
the Warren and Youngstown Playhouse.

CHARLESS. PERRY retired from his law practice
in Boothbay Harbor, Maine, and is now pursuing a
career in marriage consulting.

J. KENNETH SADLER JR. lives in Oxford, Md.,
with his wife, Sarah, and reports that his children
are spread out from Seattle to London.

CHARLES R. SPENCER JR. proudly announces
the birth of his first grandchild, Charles R. Spencer
IV. Spencer lives in Newport News, Va.

Law: RICHARD D. HAYNES is senior counsel
for Haynes & Boone, a law firm with five offices
that he helped form. Haynes is a member of the
Washington and Lee Board of Trustees. He lives in
Dallas with his wife and two children.

99
DR. JOHN P. FREEMAN has taken

an early retirement from Eastman Kodak Co. and
joined the staff at the Adirondack Mountain Club
in Lake George, N.Y.

B.R. WILKERSON JR. was recently named direc-
tor of public works for the city of Kingsport, Tenn.

‘60
DR. RICHARD W. COHEN has been

named chairman of Doping Control and the IOC
Sports Medicine Congress for the 1996 Atlanta
Olympics. Cohen is an orthopedic surgeon in At-
lanta.

JONATHAN R. LEMON was one ofseven people
selected to go to Hungary and teach small business
development. He will return in early 1993 to teach
applied management and sales to a small group of
Hungarian business people. He plans on visiting
the Ukraine and former Soviet Union.

G.L. “PAT” PATTERSON II has relocated his
law practice from Phoenix to Springerville, Ariz. He
and his wife, Trish, live in Nutrioso, Ariz., where
they breed Bernese Mountain dogs and bird dogs.

’6l
RONALD L. RANDEL is winding

down his term as president of the Albuquerque
Board of Realtors and director of the Real Estate
Association of New Mexico. He recently ended his
tenure on the New Mexico Real Estate Commis-
sion.

Law: W. C. MILLER (see ’58).

62
JAMES N. APPLEBAUM is a tenor

in the 100-voice University of Maryland Chorus.
He recently performed Handel’s “Hercules” at the
finale of the Maryland Handel Festival.

W. HAYNE HIPP and ROBERT S. DOENGES
recently hiked to the top of Mount Rainier in
Washington. Hipp is a resident of Greenville, S.C.,
and Doenges lives in Tulsa, Okla.

Law: THOMAS L. FEAZELL has been elected
senior vice president, secretary, and general coun-
sel of Ashland Oil Inc. Feazell will be joining
Ashland’s core management group. Feazell is re-
placing JOHN P. WARD, ’54, who retired Oct. 1.
Feazell and his wife, Gigi, live in Ashland, Ky.

 

ASSETS

1. Cash
2. Appreciated assets, such as
common stock

 

When considering an investment of the future of Washington and
Lee—such as your contribution to the $127 million campaign currently
underway—you need not always reach for your pocketbook. | thought I
would use this column to again review the various assets you might use to
make a gift and the different types of gifts that are possible.

3. Real estate
4. Life insurance
5. Tangible personal property

Depending on your personal financial situation, it might be more
advantageous to use one asset over another when considering a gift. Too,
some assets lend themselves to certain approaches better than others with
varying income and tax implications for you, the donor.

Planned giving focuses on four concepts that meet very different
needs. Apart from your interest in making a gift to W&L, do you want to
minimize your current federal income taxes? Do you need to fashion an
arrangement that will improve your income? Do you need to find a means of
conveying assets to your children? Do you want to minimize any estate tax
that might be due upon your death? It is possible to accomplish each of
these very different needs through a gift to Washington and Lee. Indeed,
wise philanthropy goes hand in hand with sound financial planning.

TYPES OF GIFTS

1. Outright gifts. When you make an “outright” gift to W&L, you
convey an asset without retaining an interest in it. The gift has an

Making a Gift to Washington and Lee University

3. Income-generating gifts. The opposite of a gift in which you retain
the income is one that generates an income for the University. Usually
structured for a fixed life, this type of arrangement transfers assets to your
children or other beneficiaries at its termination. Although you generally do
not receive an income-tax deduction for this gift, you create an important
income stream for W&L while conveying assets to your children with
virtually no tax implications for them.

immediate impact on the life of the University and, percentage-wise, you
receive the largest possible charitable income-tax deduction as a reward for
your generosity. A gift to the Annual Fund is an example of an outright gift.

2. Income-retained gifts. It is possible to convey an asset to the
University while retaining the right to receive an income from it for the
remainder of your life and/or the life of another person. Many types of
arrangements are available through this type of gift and each can be
completely tailored to meet your particular needs. You receive an income-
tax deduction based on your age, the specific plan, and the amount of
income you will receive. Upon your death, W&L will receive the assets.

4. Bequests. Through your last will and testament, you can
demonstrate your love and commitment to your family and to your alma
mater by including a provision to establish any of the arrangements outlined
above. Since you can alter your will at any time, there are no immediate tax
benefits attendant to a charitable bequest. Such bequests, however, provide
significant benefits to your heirs by minimizing their estate-tax burden.

If you would like to learn more about planned giving and how these
basic concepts can help you make a difference at W&L, please call the

Development Office at (703) 463-8425.

David R. Long
Director of Planned Giving

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 43

 

63
DR. R. THOMAS EDWARDS III

practices internal medicine in Roanoke, Va., and is
the president of the Virginia Society of Internal
Medicine. His son, Evans, is a W&L senior and
played on the football team.

DR. THOMAS D. EDWARDS lives with his wife,
Donna, in Phoenix, Ariz.

ROBERT G. HOLLAND was recently named
editor of the Op/Ed Page at the Richmond Times-
Dispatch.

DR. EDWARD W. HOLMES JR. is a professor
and chairman of medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.

DR. E. ROSS KYGER III reports from Texas that
he has recently had good visits with classmates
EDWARD WARREN HOLMES JR. and
CHARLES T. McCORD III. Holmes and his wife,
Judy, joined the Kygers for a weekend of golf in
Colorado. Kyger and McCord spent a few days
hunting and fishing at a friend’s West Texas ranch.
Kyger is trying to phase down surgery practice to
spend more time with the ranching business.

CHARLES T. McCORD II land his wife, Suzanne,
are looking forward to the new photography labora-
tory company they are starting in Bellaire, ‘Texas.

H. MICHAEL WALKER is areal estate consultant
and president of GMK Interests, which owns and
operates apartments and hotels in Washington D.C.,
Virginia, North Carolina, and Georgia. He and his
wife, Carole, live in Virginia Beach, Va.

SHERWOOD W. WISE JR. has been elected presi-
dent of SSG, the 4,200-member Society for Sedi-
mentary Geology. Wise also enjoys singing Barber-
shop with Marion Maxwell Caskie III, ’58, in the
local chapter of S.P.E.B.S.Q.S.A. in Tallahassee,
Florida.

Law: G.L. “PAT” PATTERSON (see ’60).

64
REV. JAMES R. HORTON was hon-

ored Sept. 20, 1992, for 20 years of ministry at the
Church of the Advent Episcopal parish in
Williamston, N.C. Classmate ROBERT C.
FARRAR JR. and his wife, Linda, were on hand to
celebrate the occasion.

DR. HARRY L. PARLETTE III is an associate
professor of dermatology, plastic surgery, and head
and neck surgery at the University of Virginia Medi-
cal Center in Charlottesville.

FREDERICK C. SCHAEFFER recently received
the first Edward E. Phillips Award for outstanding
citizenship from the New England Mutual Life
Insurance Company. Schaeffer has been chairman
of the board of The Hutchison School, Presbyterian
Day School, and Memphis Young Life. He is cur-
rently a trustee of the Memphis Children’s Mu-
seum and the Memphis University School.

PETER J. TURK isa doctor in a hospital in Berlin,
Germany, and recently visited with W&L Professor
of German David Dickens.

44 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

65
PAUL H. DUNBAR III recently

formed the law firm of Capers, Dunbar, Sanders,
Bruckner, & Clarke in Augusta, Ga. He also serves
as City attorney for the City of Augusta.

BERND SCHULZis superintendent of vocational
and professional schools in the State of Lower
Saxony in Germany.

67
Law: JOSEPH D. LOGAN III has

been elected president of the board of Opera
Roanoke in Roanoke, Va.

68
LEROY C. “BUDDY” ATKINS I is

an associate dean of students at Washington and
Lee. He works with student activities, particularly
fraternities, and sororities, and is active in the Fra-
ternity Renaissance program. His daughter, Drewry,
is a senior at W&L.

PAUL A. BROWER has a four-man urology prac-
tice in South Orange County in California. He also
serves as medical director of Golden State
Lithotripsy, a mobile lithotripter service in South-
ern California. He lives with his two daughters in
Laguna Beach.

ALEXANDER S. JONES and his wife, Susan E.
‘Tifft, are writing the first comprehensive biography
of four generations of the Ochs-Sulzberger family,
the family dynasty that has presided over The New
York Times for almost 100 years. The authors have
been granted complete, exclusive, and uncondi-
tional access to the family archives, in order to
research the biography, which will be published in
1996. Jones and ‘Tifft were chosen, in part, because
of their previous biography of an American publish-
ing family, 7he Rise and Fall of the Bingham Dynasty,
which was published in 1991.

JAMES H. KIERSKY is a professor of philosophy
at Georgia State University and recently published
two books: Thinking Criticallyand A Multi-Cultural
Intro to Philosophy. He lives in Atlanta.

ROBERT R. LOGAN received his master’s in
elementary education and plans on teaching next
year. He and his family live in Louisville, Ky.

STEVEN R. SAUNDERS opened a second busi-
ness in May 1992, called Perry House Galleries,
which exhibits American sculpture and paintings.
Saunders has an international trade consulting firm
in Alexandria, Va.

Law: PAUL H. DUNBAR III (see °65).

69
DENNIS S. DREXLER is the presi-

dent and sales manager of the Ben Drexler Co. in
Memphis, Tenn.

ROBERT J. LYTLE was promoted to vice presi-
dent of the construction/drafting division of U.S.
Structures-Archadeck, a construction business
franchisor in Richmond, Va.

JEFFREY WEXLER is manager of public affairs
for the New York Zoological Society in Brooklyn.

70
EDWARD N. MARTIN JR. is con-

ducting hetero-polymer research for the Biochem-
istry Department at the University of Virginia’s
Medical Sciences Center in Charlottesville.

MARTIN B. TURPIN has been promoted to di-
rector of finished stock requirements planning in
Whitehall-Robins’ materials management group in
Richmond, Va.

at
JOHN M. McCARDELL JR. was

named president of Middlebury College in Ver-
mont last April. McCardell had been acting presi-
dent of the college since September 1991.

72
ROBERT G. BROOKBY has been

elected executive vice president of Wachovia Cor-
porate Services Inc. in Winston-Salem, N.C. He is
chief credit officer of the corporate banking subsid-
iary and also serves as general loan administration
officer for institutional areas of Wachovia’s banks
and other Wachovia Corporation member compa-
nies.

ROBERT J. HUMPHREYS lives with his wife and
son, Robert Bonner, 1, in Virginia Beach, Va., where
Humphreys is the Commonwealth’s Attorney.

73
WILLIAM S. COLE has returned to

the United States after living in Indonesia for many
years. He is currently working for the Agency for
International Development and lives in Falls
Church, Va.

JEFFREY O. DAVIES is president of
AGINCOURT, an educational publishing com-
pany in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.

DR. JOHN H. DUMAS II practices internal medi-
cine in Birmingham, Ala., where he lives with his
wife and three children.

DAVID K. GRIFFIN recently moved to Beaufort,
S.C., where he is employed as an outside sales
representative by Brown & Bigelow. He and his
wife, Sharon, have one son.

WILLIAM G. HUMMER lives with his wife,
Claudia Shreve, and two sons Billy, 10, and Brett,
7, in Perrysburg, Ohio.

WILLIAM H. McILHANY II publishes the Jour-
nal of Individualist Studies, a quarterly historical
review for the Individualist Research Foundation.
Mcllhany lives in Beverly Hills, Calif.

HATTON C.V. SMITH is currently selling coffee
and living with his two daughters in Birmingham,
Ala.

ROBERT J. TAYLOR IV is president of Taylor
Consulting Group Inc. and Rebound Care Corp.
Taylor Consulting provides financial advice to busi-
ness, while Rebound Care is a not-for-profit pro-
vider of intermediate care to the mentally retarded
in Tennessee. Taylor lives with his wife, Beth, and
two daughters in Atlanta.

"714
WALLER T. DUDLEY has moved to

the McLean, Va., office of McGuire, Woods, Battle
& Boothe where he will concentrate on real estate,
construction, and commercial litigation. Dudley
reports that the move will allow him to spend more
rime in the state and federal courts of Virginia.

"ta
J. WILLIAM LASSETTER has be-

gunathree-year masters program at Yale University’s
Graduate School of Architecture.

Law: RICHARD F. BIRIBAUER has been named
chief trademark counsel for Johnson & Johnson, the
world’s largest manufacturer of health care prod-
ucts. Biribauer has responsibility for all legal mat-
ters relating to Johnson & Johnson’s worldwide
trademark portfolio. He lives in Hampton, N.J.

Law: RAY V. HARTWELL III (see ’69).

"16
BRUCE B. DUNNAN is a member of

the Governing Board for the St. Albans School in
Washington, D.C. Bruce lives with his wife, Wendy,
and three daughters in Chevy Chase, Md.

KERRY D. SCOTT has been promoted to director
of credit and purchasing for the Old Dominion Box
Co. He recently bought a plane and earned his
instrument rating. He is pursuing a commercial
rating and flight instructor status. Scott lives in
Amherst, Va.

L. TEMPLE WASHINGTON has announced the
formation of WHA Architecture and Planning, which
was formed from the firm of Temple, Washington
and Associates. He lives in Falls Church, Va.

Ge.
JAMES N. FALK has been named

director of the Southern Regional Office of the
Institute of International Education. I.I.E., is the
largest, private, nonprofit educational and cultural
exchange agency in the United States. Falk lives
with his wife and two children in Houston.

GARY K. HALEY has relocated to Macon, Ga.,
where he is now working for the Paper Corp. of
America.

WILLIAM G. OGLESBY is in his fifth year as
weekend news anchor and producer at WWBT, the
NBC affiliate in Richmond, Va. He also works as a
consumer reporter and host of “Where were you
with Bill Oglesby,” a daily radio feature on WMXB-
FM in Richmond. Oglesby and his wife, Marcia,
have two daughters, Jessica, and Caroline.

BRUCE H. RABUN recently opened his own law
practice in Denver after living on his sailboat and
touring the Caribbean and Bahamas with his wife,
Sara.

PATRICK J. REILLY is a partner in the law firm
of Gross, McGinley, LaBarre, & Easton, in Allen-
town, Pa. He lives in Coopersburg, Pa., with his
wife, Donna, and their fourchildren, Kristin, Dustin,
Amber, and Kyle.

 

 

 

 

Falling star

DOD MAKES LIVING DOING
THE MOVIES’ DIRTY WORK

 

 

 

\ \ hen itcomes to makinga living,

Dan Dod, ’59, has fallen flat on his
face—countless times, as a matter of
fact. Stuntmen tend to do that sort of
thing.

Inthe business for nearly a quarter
century, a day hardly goes by without
Dod asking himself why he keeps
doing it.

“Actually, ve lain awake at nights
wondering the same thing,” he said in
arecentinterview. “I’ve been strapped
into vehicles going 120 miles an hour
and that same question keeps rolling
over and over and over in my mind.
Why am I doing this?”

Dod has been a stuntman for the
last 23 years, and his list of credits
includes more than 100 movies, ‘IT'V
shows, and commercials. He’s had a
blast—sometimes quite literally—and
explains it these ways:

“This business can really become
addictive,” he said. “‘Adrenaline junk-
ies’, they call us. But I guess it’s like
anything else. Some people really like
to play golf. I really like to do this.”

Of course, executing precision
reverse 180-degree turns in a high-
speed chase scene or falling offa build-
ing or reenacting a fight scene with an
array of weapons all tend to be just a
tad more dangerous than youraverage
chip shot.

Dod, who is a member of the East
Coast Stuntmen’s Association and the
Screen Actors Guild, has appeared in
many memorable films and shows,
including The French Connection,
Serpico, Death Wish, Prizzi’s Honor,
Scrooged, New Jack City, Jacob’s Ladder,
“The Equalizer,” and “Law and Or-
der.” He laughs when he says that he
came to this line of work “almost by

  

accident”
after a stint in the
Army and a few years of
traveling.

But it is notan easy way to pick up
a paycheck. It might be glamorous at
times, he might work with nice people
and the occasional superstar or two,
and it might even pay pretty well, but
when you’re about to take part in a
staged head-on collision ora fireball is
blasting into your back, none of that
really matters all that much. He has
seen friends severely injured. He has
seen friends killed. And he considers
himself lucky to have avoided such a
fate. For Dod, and the many others
like him, being a stunt performer is a
calling, something much more
avocation than vocation. It’s not for
everyone, and he wouldn’t recom-
mend a career as a stunt performer to
anyone, but if you listen to him long
enough, you know it’s the career for
him—despite all the dangers, despite
all the why’s.

“Fear is a part of it—it has to be,”
he says. “But there is that moment
that leads up to every stunt when
everyone quiets down, and you get
the high sign and you know you're
rolling and you get the ‘Stand by!’ and
then itseems like two lifetimes before
the director says ‘Action.’ And then
you go for it.

“Your concentration level gets so
high at that moment, and all of a
sudden everything is in freeze-frame.
In those microseconds, the adrenaline
shoots in, and then you get very, very
cool. ‘That’s where it all is, when
everything seems to work. That’s
worth the whole thing. That’s the
addiction.”

 

 

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 45

 

"78
DR. SHELBY K. BAILEY has a pri-

vate practice in general surgery. He lives with his
wife, Margo, and son, Paul, in Florence, Ala..

WALTER P. BENDA is director of marketing and
administration for the Japanese company, Mitoku,
which specializes in Japanese traditional and
macrobiotic foods.

ALEXIUS A. DYER III, executive vice president
of capital markets for International Airline Support
Group Inc., has been named to its Board of Direc-
tors. Dyer has been with IASG since 1991. His
primary responsibilities have included the origina-
tion and placement of debt financing and the sourc-
ing of airline parts for [ASG.

J. EDWARD GRAHAM JR. has accepted a doc-
toral fellowship at the University of South Carolina
in Columbia. He is pursuing a Ph.D. in finance.

MARK A. PUTNEY is vice president and director
of the Richmond,Va., office of Charter Properties
Inc., a commercial real estate development, leas-
ing, and management company. He lives with his
wife, Lila, and two children in Richmond.

DR. JOHN F. SACCO was elected chief of medi-
cine at Dearborn City Hospital in Cincinnati. He is
also the president of Northern Kentucky’s Ameri-
can Cancer Society’s “Making Strides” program.

DR. DONALD G. SMITH JR. has a private prac-
tice and serves as the chief of the family practice
department at Roanoke Memorial Hospital. He
lives with his wife, Babs, and two children, Donny
and Carlie, in Roanoke, Va.

LT. CMDR. WILLIAM G. WELCH moved with
his wife, Heidi, and two children, Ben and Stacey,
to San Diego, Calif., where he is the maintenance
officer for Fighter Squadron 301 at Naval Air Sta-
tion Miramar.

79
ARTHURS.C. COOPER was recently

made senior vice president of Allied Capital Advi-
sors Corp. He lives with his wife, Jennifer, and two
daughters Samantha and Raquel in Potomac, Md.

Law: WALLER T. DUDLEY (see ’74).

MICHAEL J. FOLEY is attempting

to instill new life into wrongful death suits by using
the recently affirmed Pennsylvania Abortion Con-
trol Act as foundation for recovering damages for
the death of a pregnant mother and her baby in a
drunken driving accident.

DAVID A. LAVORANDO teaches high school
biology and life science in Salinas, Calif. He also is
pursuing his masters’ in zoology at San Jose State
University. He currently lives in Santa Cruz, Calif.

ROBERT E. LEE is married and lives with his two
children, lan Christian and Robert E. Jr., in Hilton
Head Island, S.C.

$1
NICHOLAS J. BRADY is an assistant

state aviation officer with the New Jersey Army
National Guard. He lives with his wife, Laura, and
son, Patrick, in Lambertville, N.J.

46 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

FRANKLIN P. BILLINGSLEY was

recently a guest meteorologist on ABC’s “Good
Morning America.” Billingsley is the regular
weathercaster for KTRK-T’V in Houston.

R. JAY IRONS works for Catawba Capital Manage-
ment in Roanoke, Va.

MICHAEL F. KENNEDY has joined the newspa-
per Florida Today as a copy editor. He was formerly
a copy editor and columnist for the Hera/d-Dispatch
in Huntington, W.Va. He and his wife, Jeanne live
in Rockledge, Fla.

DR. M. PARKER ROBERTS III finished his gen-
eral surgery studies at Tulane University and is now
completing a fellowship in colon and rectal surgery
in Houston.

Taw: BRENT A. JACKSON, (see ROSEMARY
R. HARRIS, ’83L).

83
DR. WILLIAM E. ALISON JR. is a

chief resident in surgery at Tulane University School
of Medicine.

ARTHUR H. BELL has written and will co-pro-
duce Friends and Enemies, a feature film to be
distributed through Universal Pictures.

JAMES J. BURCHENAL lives with his wife,
Gibson, and three children in Cincinnati, where he
works in national and corporate banking with the
Fifth Third Bank.

D. MASON ELLERBE is an associate vice presi-
dent of occupational medicine for the McLeod
Regional Medical Center in Florence, S.C.

JAMES H. FALK JR. isa trial attorney with the law
firm of Falk & Causey in Washington, D.C., and he
was recently elected chairman of the litigation sec-
tion of the District of Columbia Bar.

DON A. HARROLD JR. works in risk manage-
ment for MCI Telecommunications in Silver
Spring, Md., and is pursuing a CPCU designation/
certification.

JONATHAN R. KELAFANT is a senior explora-
tion geologist for international ventures for Ad-
vanced Resources International, an oil and gas
consulting firm. Kelafant lives in Vienna, Va.,
but has travelled extensively in China, Africa,
and India.

DONALD W. KELLERMAN JR. was recently
promoted to an asset manager for the U.S.F.&G.
Real Estate Division. Properties within the portfo-
lio include multi-family, golf course management
and development, and commercial building invest-
ments. Kellerman lives with his wife, Anne, and
two children, Gordon and Frances, in Baltimore.

DR. JAMES F. LONDREY owns a dental practice
in Richmond, Va., and enjoys windsurfing, fishing,
and golf.

WILLIAM M. PEERY left his job in Helena,
Mont., got married, and moved to North Carolina.

CHRISTOPHER B. POWER is a partner in the
law firm of Robinson and McElwee in Charleston,
W.Va.

E. SCOTT STANTON is an attorney with the
firm of Breckinridge, Davis, Sproles & Stollings.
He lives with his wife, Cynthia, and two children
in Summersville, W.Va.

JOHN P. WALSH JR. was promoted to vice presi-
dent of Prudential Securities Inc., and was chosen
to participate in the elite Pyramid Program. He
lives in Rockville, Md.

STEPHEN C. WARREN lives in Roanoke, Va.,
with his wife, Wendy, daughter, Elizabeth, 2, and
son, Christopher, 1, and works as the director of
communications for the American Red Cross.

Law: LESLIE GOLLER DILLINGHAM has
joined the law firm of Kent, Ridge, & Crawford, in
Jacksonville, Fla. ‘The mayor recently appointed
Dillingham to Jacksonville’s Environmental Pro-
tection Board.

Law: MARTHA L. GOODLOE is an attorney
with the law firm Herzog, Crebs, & McGhee in St.
Louis.

Law: ROSEMARY R. HARRIS has become asso-
ciated with the Richmond, Va., law firmof BRENT
A. JACKSON, ’82L, & Associates, P.C. She also
serves as a magistrate for the city of Richmond.

Law: THE HON. MARYLOUISE LUCCHI-
McCLOUD is a state administrative law judge in
Fair Lawn, N.]J.

Law: JOHN M. McGARRY is an associate with
the Chicago law firm of Baker & McKenzie.

Law: CINDY H. NAPIER practices law with two
other attorneys in Louisville, Ky.

S4
GEOFFREY R.B. CAREY has been

promoted to vice president of international invest-
ment management at J.P. Morgan Co. in New York.

JAMES A. SKINNER III is an investment analyst
and assistant fund manager with Gartmore Invest-
ment Ltd., a British fund management firm. He
and his wife, Lisa, live in London.

JOHN D. BUCHANAN is an attorney

with the law firm of Balch & Bingham in Birming-
ham, Ala..

E. GIBSON KERR is moving to Kansas City, Mo.,
to serve as chief operating officer of Kerr & Com-
pany, a full-service commercial real estate firm.

GEORGE B. KINKEAD lives with his wife, Jen-
nifer Lynn , in St. Paul, Minn., were he is in sales
and marketing for ‘TURFCO Manufacturing.

‘TERRANCE McWHORTER graduated from the
University of Cincinnati College of Law in May.
He has begun practicing law in Illinois. He is also
a CPA in the state of Illinois. He lives in Chicago.

ROBERT S. SLOAN was made vice president of
Lehman Brothers and works in Tokyo, Japan.

JON E. ZAGRODZKY is a third degree black belt
Chung Moo Doe martial arts instructor. He is also
pursuing his Master of Business Arts degree at the
University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of
Business.

et pi BE pg

86
PATRICK L. CUMMINGS is a cap-

tain in the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General
Corps where he has been a prosecutor since Sep-
rember 1990. He is stationed at Fort Stewart, Ga.,
and lives with his wife, Cynthia, in Savannah.

PAUL M. DAVEY is currently vice president and
group manager in the Real Estate Division of First
City Texas, in Houston. He manages a group with
property credit exposure in ‘Texas, Florida, and
California.

PAUL M. JAMES JR. was graduated from the
Cumberland School of Law and now works for the
law firm of Rushton, Stokely, Johnston & Garrett
in Montgomery, Ala..

DANIEL J. O°;CONNOR III is a research assis-
tant with the South Carolina House of Represen-
tatives. He summarizes legislation and responds to
constituent inquiries.

CAPT. CHARLES A. PFAFF JR. has moved to
Kirchgons, Germany, where he is serving in the
U.S. Army’s 1st Brigade, 1st Armor Division. He
was promoted to the rank of captain in May of
1991.

J. CHRISTOPHER SPEAR has started a new job
in the capital management group of First Union
National Bank in Charlotte, N.C.

J. SCOTTSTOCKBURGER recently completed
pre-med courses at the University of Arkansas in
Fayetteville and plans to enter medical school in
the fall of 1993.

MATTHEW R. VAWTER is a product manager
for ILH.S. Regulatory Products in Boulder, Colo.

S/
SEAN M. BUTLER earned his Mas-

ter of Arts in English Literature from the College
of William & Mary. He left in August to teach
English in Czech and Slovak Federal Republic.

STEVEN J. GIACOBBE recently received his
masters in business administration in finance from
the University of North Carolina at Greensboro.
He now works for Wachovia Bank in Winston-
Salem, N.C.

JOHN K. HUDSON JR. recently received his
masters in business administration from Columbia
Business School. He is an associate with the spe-
cialized restructuring group at Smith Barney, Har-
ris, Opham & Co. Inc. in New York City.

‘THOMAS E. MYERS JR. is managing the com-
mercial banking department for First Union Na-
tional Bank in Elizabeth City, N.C.

G. PAIGE WINGERT received his juris doctor
from the Dickinson School of Law in June.

88
TIMOTHY GOLIAN received his

Doctor of Dentistry degree from the Medical Col-
lege of Virginia School of Dentistry. He was
awarded with the A.D. Williams Award for the
highestclinical grade-point average, the P.D. Miller
Award for excellence in periodontics and restor-
ative dentistry , and was inducted into the honor-
ary dental leadership society Alpha Sigma Chi.

 

 

 

Cal

}

=e ee

; —-
a

P CERO aby
y e tT > a hy "EVE O@nn 18

rf
“y

1 alendar guys

MInks, RAT COMBINE TO PRODUCE STUNNING BAY CALENDAR

 

I. might be hard to picture a Rat and a Mink working together, but for W&L
men Bryan Hatchett, ’73, his brother Philip, 77, and John Ishon, a VMI
graduate, picturing things is what it’s all about.

The trio of boyhood friends formed a partnership a few years back to make
and sell picture calendars of the Hampton Roads, Va., area and the Chesa-
peake Bay. That effort is now in its fourth year and has produced a memorable
series of portraits of life on the water of the Chesapeake Bay.

“T’ve lived in New York for the last 12 years, and I would go back home
to Hampton and just take pictures for myself of the working men on the
waterfront,” said Bryan Hatchett. “It all kind of led to this project. We wanted
to have pictures that depicted the quiet beauty of the Chesapeake Bay, and
I think that’s what we’ve tried to do.”

Bryan is with the law department at CBS, while brother Philip is an
attorney in Hampton. Ishon runs a store, Hampton Stationery [(804)722-
7712], which serves as the primary distribution center for the calendars.

The first calendars in 1989 and 1990, which featured black-and-white
photographs, depicted life in the Hampton Creek region. Last year, the
Hatchetts and Ishon went toa color format and titled the series, “Chesapeake
Bay Watermen.” Their calendars feature tide information for both Baltimore
and Hampton Roads, Va., as well as descriptions of each of the photographs.

The Hatchetts and Ishon have produced a memorable name for their
partnership—RatMink, Ltd.—and a unique logo. The RatMink symbol is a
stylized rat in full VMI regalia, sporting a mink coat and an ear-to-ear lecherous
grin. The image was produced based on a photograph that Hatchett staged of
Ishon in his VMI uniform, wrapped in his wife’s mink coat. “Maybe it was too
much of an inside joke,” Bryan said.

What isn’t a joke is the vivid portrait of life on the bay that RatMink’s
calendars reveal. Watermen are a strong breed, an almost endangered species
and Bryan Hatchett says he has come to greatly appreciate their lifestyle.

“They don’t do what they do because the public finds it interesting, but
because they find it interesting,” he told the Newport News Dazt/y Press. “Do
they do it out of habit or genealogy? I don’t know, but the ones I’ve talked to
may not articulate it very well, but they don’t leave it because they like it.”

 

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 47

 

 

Golian is currently training as a general practice
resident in dental medicine at the Medical College
of Virginia Hospital. Golian lives with his wife,
Katryna, in Richmond, Va.

ANDREW N. HART is teaching at the Oradea
University in Romania.

CHRISTOPHER E. HASKETT is employed as a
realty specialist by the U.S. Naval Facilities Engi-
neering Command in San Diego.

STEPHEN J. HEAD recently completed a moun-
tain biking trip through the former Soviet Union
and is planning a trip to the Australian outback in
January. Head lives in Lake Hiawatha, N.].

JEFFREY B. KOPET is an associate in the litiga-
tion department of Gearhiser, Peters & Horton in
Chattanooga, Tenn. He lives in Lookout Moun-
tain, Ga.

JAMES R. LANCASTER was graduated from the
University of Texas School of Law and is now an
associate with Akin, Gump, Hauer & Feld, L.L.P.
in Dallas.

PETER J. PIZZO III is the director of corporate
accounting with Hallmark Healthcare in Atlanta.

ROGER REYNOLDS JR. is a portfolio manager/
investment officer with Rittenhouse Capital Man-
agement in Radnor, Pa.

EMERSON B. ROBINSON III received his juris
doctor from the University of Mississippi in 1991,
and subsequently he received a LL.M. in interna-
tional law from Cambridge University in England.
Robinson is now practicing law with Butler, Snow,
O’Mara, Stevens & Cannada in Jackson, Miss.

HENRY M. SACKETT IV is an associate in the
architectural firm of Schneider & Associates, AIA,
in John’s Island, S.C., where he specializes as a
roofing consultant.

J. BRADLEY SHAW lives with his wife, Mary, and
one-year old twin sons, John William and Michael
Joseph, in New Rochelle, N.Y.

C. RUSSELL H. SHEARER is pursuing his LL.M.
in environmental law at Tulane. He also was
admitted to the Delaware barand recently published
an article in Lewis & Clarke’s Environmental Law.

E. PAGE STUART JR. recently was graduated
from the University of Kentucky School of Law and
has successfully passed the Kentucky Bar Exam.
He is now associated with the law firm of Givhan &
Spainhour, PSC, in Shepherdsville, Ky.

KEVIN S. WEBB is a first-year law student at
Washington and Lee and was recently elected First
Year Law Executive Committee Representative.

JOSEPH W. ZAMORANO was recently promoted
to vice president of West Coast operations for the
Martin J. Moran Co., a fundraising/public relations
consulting firm. He lives in San Diego.

Law: STEPHEN P. JORDAN isan associate at the
law firm of Yost & Roberston in Franklin, Tenn.

89
J. TUCKERALFORD graduated from

the Vanderbilt University School of Law and is now
an associate with King & Spalding in Atlanta.

48 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

EMILY C. BEVILL has joined the Oliver Finan-
cial Group in the audit department of Deloitte &
Touche in London.

DANA J. BOLDEN has been named director of
public and legislative affairs for Georgia’s Depart-
ment of Labor. He lives in Atlanta.

MATTHEW P. BRADY is currently living in
Taipei, Taiwan, where he is studying Chinese at
the State Department’s American Institute in Tai-
wan. After this year of study, he will begin work at
the U.S. Consulate General in Hong Kong as an
economic consular officer.

W. SEAN BUGG has been named marketing coor-
dinator for the broadcast division of the Associated
Press. Bugg will produce marketing and promo-
tional materials, edit newsletters for AP broadcast
members, organize awards programs of the Associ-
ated Press Broadcasters, Inc., and manage the AP’s
participation in industry trade shows.

GEORGE MANUEL LOUPASSI is currently a
law clerk for the Hon. James B. Wilkinson in the
Circuit Court of the city of Richmond. Loupassi
was graduated from the University of Richmond
School of Law last May and has passed the Virginia
Bar Exam.

PAUL McKINSTRY received his C.P.A. and has
been promoted to senior staff accountant with
Deloitte and Touche in Washington, D.C. He re-
ports that he enjoyed a “Pole House” reunion last
May.

90)
CHRISTOPHERA.CERONE works

for the U.S. Department of Commerce as a desk
officer for Morocco, Algeria, Libya, Saudi Arabia,
Bahrain, and the United Arab Emirates.

ANNA M. DULANEY is in her second year of an
M.A./Ph.D. program in sociology at the University
of Virginia. She is focusing on non-profit organiza-
tions and Latin American development.

JONAH L. GLICK is presently teaching English
and studying Japanese at Sundai Els junior college
in Tokyo.

ALICE L. HARRELL recently returned from a
trek through the Langtang Valley, north of
Kathmander, Nepal. She is currently employed
with Barnes & Noble Booksellers in Richmond, Va.

HELGE R. HUKARI (see ANDREW W. WaA-
TERS, ’91).

MARK T. MILLIGAN is employed by the man-
agement consulting services of Price Waterhouse.
He is currently on assignment in Boston.

KIMBERLY ANN MOSELEY attends Eastern
Virginia Medical school in Norfolk.

EUGENE A. RICHARDSON JR. served as the
campaign manager in charge of the Bateman for
Congress Committee in Yorktown, Va.

MELISSA ROBERTS is pursuing a master’s de-
gree in clinical psychology at Radford University.

L'T. JONATHAN I. SHEINBERG began his third
year of medical school at Georgetown University in
Washington, D.C. He holds the rank of lieutenant
in the U.S. Air Force.

JENNIFER E. SPRENG has spent the past two
years as executive assistant of the House Wednes-
day Group, a caucus of Republican members of
Congress. Spreng wrote and published a 50-page
report titled, “New Direction: Welfare Reform in
‘Twelve States.” Currently, she is a first-year law
student at St. Louis University and is a reporter for
the Belleville Journal.

ANN STEWART manages the loan department at
the Massachusetts-New Hampshire headquarters
of the American Automobile Association in
Rockland, Mass.

DAVID J. STREETT is currently studying medi-
cine at the University of Arkansas in Little Rock.

CHRISTOPHER M. WEED is pursuing his
master’s degree in teaching and also works as a
public high school teacher in Connecticut.

Law: BRIAN ALVIN SANKEY is an executive
vice president at the Bella Model Agency in Irvine,
Calif.

Ol
DUKE A. DILLARD lives in Los An-

geles, where he teaches with the Teach for America
Program.

M. ELIZABETH GRIFFIN is currently in her
second year of law school at the University of Vir-
ginia. She spent her summer working for Johns
Hopkins City Program in Carlisle, Pa., and Geneva,
Switzerland.

C. CALDWELL HART currently lives in
Rosemont, Pa., and serves on the Beta Theta Pi
housing corporation.

2ND LT. DAVID T. JOHNSTON is an Army
officer stationed in Korea.

JOHN M. LANEY received his M.A. in history from
University College of London University and
recently returned home to Haddenfield, N.J., after
14 months of travel in Europe.

RACHELLE B. NOCK passed her C.P.A. exam
last May. She lives in Bowie, Md.

DAMON L. SANDERS is pursuing his master’s of
public administration at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. He also works as the city
planner and community development administra-
tor for the city of Bennettsville, S.C.

INGRID M. SCHROEDER finished her master’s
of public administration at Syracuse University and
is a presidential management intern at the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services in the Admin-
istration for Children and Families in Washington,
D.C.

CAROLYN V. SMITH is a marketing associate for
Paine Webber Development Corp. in San Francisco.

LAURA C, TAYLOR is pursuing her master’s in
theological studies at Emory University in Atlanta.

CECILY J. TYNAN is a reporter and weathercaster
for WDBJ-TV7, the CBS affiliate in Roanoke, Va.

ANDREW W. WATERS is a newsman for the
Associated Press in Los Angeles. He shares an
apartment with HELGE HUKARI, ’90, who at-
tends law school at UCLA.

SHARON A. WIDMAYER teaches English as a
second language in Prague in the Czech and Slovak
Federal Republic.

Law: CLYDE ANDREW HAIG recently com-
pleted the Officer Indoctrination School at the
Naval Education and Training Center in Newport,
R.I.

Law: KAREN DIANNE LEE isa hearings attor-
ney in the office of the comptroller for the state of
Texas. She lives in Austin.

92
L. BRANNON ADEN is a first-year

medical student at Tulane University in New Or-
leans.

KAREN L. ARCH is pursuing her masters in art
history at Tulane University in New Orleans.

DARREN BRACCIA is a hydrogeologist with
CH2M HILL, a national environmental consulting
firm. Based in the Mid-Atlantic Regional Office in
Reston, Va., he spends a large amount of time
performing groundwater studies at hazardous waste
sites. He lives in Springfield, Va.

RICHARD C. BROSE is attending the University
of Puget Sound Law School in Tacoma, Wash.

E. CULLINS CARRIKER is pursuing a graduate
degree in English at Southern Methodist Univer-
sity in Dallas.

RICHARD E. CROW is an assistant accountant
with William Hart, C.P.A., in Virginia Beach, Va.

MATTHEW W. FELBER is the staff associate for
the Washington and Lee Alumni Office. He is
responsible for the class notes section of the alumni
magazine and assists with Homecoming and Re-
union weekends.

JOHN A. FLIPPEN isa brand assistant with Proc-
tor & Gamble in Cincinnati.

COURTNEY B. HALL is a first-year law student
at Tulane University in New Orleans.

DEREK T. HARRAR is a financial analyst with
Smith Barney, Harris Upham Co. Inc. in New York

City.
LAUREL A. HEISKELL is pursuing a graduate

degree in public policy at Regent University in
Virginia Beach, Va.

JENNIFER E. KACMAR is attending Jefferson
Medical College at Thomas Jefferson University in
Philadelphia.

ROBERT C. LITTLE entered his first year of law
school at the American University. His first screen-
play, “Glass Shutters,” written his senior year, is in
creative production.

ERIC C. MAUCERI is a first-year law student at
the University of Detroit Mercy School of Law.

KELLY A. McCABE is a full-time proofreader for
Deberoise & Plimpton in Washington, D.C.

C. MARKLEY MELTON is a staff accountant
with Deloitte & Touche in Alexandria, Va.

 

 

 

 

He talks for the animals

BUTLER FIGHTS FOR ANIMAL RIGHTS AS AAZPA LEADER

 

 

 

=: Sydney Butler, ’64, execu-
tive director of the American Asso-
ciation of Zoological Parks and
Aquariums, a zoo is more than just
a home for lions, tigers, and bears.

The nation’s zoological parks
and aquariums may be the last best
chance to save many animal species
from extinction.

“The highest priority of the asso-
ciation is conservation,” Butler said
in recent testimony before a House agriculture subcommittee. “The
AAZPA, with its 162 accredited member institutions and almost 6,000
individual members, is pursuing this goal through species survival plans,
animal rescue and rehabilitation, and education programs.”

Born in Mississippi but raised in Memphis, Butler’s love for the natural
world springs from a boyhood spent hunting, fishing, and camping in the
western Tennessee countryside. At Washington and Lee, Butler played
football and lacrosse, was tapped into ODK, and was editor of the Ca/x and
president of his fraternity his senior year. Yet he still found time to, as he
puts it, “enjoy the hillsides and rivers of Rockbridge County.”

After receiving his law degree from the University of Virginia, Butler
practiced environmental law in Memphis and Washington, D.C. During
the Carter administration, he served as a deputy assistant to the secretary
of agriculture, before returning to private practice. In 1987, he became vice
president for conservation at the Wilderness Society, where he served as
the organization’s chief campaign and legislative strategist.

Butler believes that as an advocate for conservation issues, he must
present his views with force, clarity, and above all insistence.

“In a world where everyone is yelling and competing for their interests,
I think AAZPA has to be in there shouting just as loudly and just as con-
vincingly as everyone else,” he said in a recent Washington Times story. “If
we don’t, the other groups will sublimate us. They will get the public ear,
and people won’t realize all that we’re doing for conservation and wildlife.”

One important program administered by the AAZPA is the Species
Survival Plan. Started in 1981, SSP is intended to secure the survival of
some of the most vulnerable and significant endangered species through
captive breeding. At present, there are SSPs for 62 species, and the goal
for the year 2000 is 200 species.

Although the AAZPA is non-partisan there is a palpable sense of
excitement in his voice when Butler admits to having “a sense of fresh
hope” with the new administration in Washington.

If people begin to see the nation’s zoos and aquariums as defenders of
wildlife and advocates of conservation, then he’s getting his message
across. And as he well knows, a good defense is a darned good offense.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 49

 

 

R. CHRISTOPHER MIYAMOTO is a first-year
medical student at Indiana University’s School of
Medicine in Indianapolis.

JAMES T. RYAN is enrolled in the Japan English
Teaching Program for 1992-93. He began teaching
English in Kobe, Japan, in July.

RASHMI D. SACHAN is pursuing her Ph.D. in
materials science at Rutgers University in New
Brunswick N.]J

KONRAD P. SCHAUMLOFFEL works for the
Murchison Bank in Houston.

MICHAEL J. SEBESTA is a medical student at
the Uniformed Services University of the Health
Sciences in Silver Spring, Md.

ELIZABETH D. SYMONDS is currently living
and working in Moscow.

ROBERT G.D. WEISGERBER recently spent
nearly two months bicycling across America with
DUKE DILLARD, ’91, and JAMIE TURNER,
"95. The trio spent 56 days pedaling 4,300 miles
Seattle to Boston. Following the trip, Weisgerber
left for Germany to work for Seimens Electronics.

SCOTT A. WILLIAMSON is working towards a
M.B.A. with a concentration in sports management
at Robert Morris College in Pittsburgh, Pa.

Law: JAMES EDWARD FAGAN works for Price
and Zimmerman in Leesburg, Va.

Law: SEVERN E.S. MILLER has takena position
with the firm of Semmes, Bowen & Semmes in
Baltimore.

Law: CHRISTOPHER F. ROBERTSON works
for the law firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham, &
‘Taft in New York City.

Law: JAMES JOSHUA SCRIBNER JR. is a spe-
cial assistant corporation counsel for the New York
City Housing Authority. He specializes in complex
tort and civil rights litigation.

 

 

Marnages

 

RICHARD H. RUFF, ’32, and Phyllis T. Money,
on Sept. 12, 1992. The couple lives in Huntsville,
Ala.

EDWARD B. CALECHMAN, ’52, and Phyllis
Naftolin, on July 26, 1992. Calechman has three
grandchildren and lives in Westville, Conn.

DR. JOSEPH C. CLARKE, ’69, and Mariko
Asakawa, on Aug. 12, 1992. Clarke is an assistant
professor of history at Jacksonville University in
Florida.

RONALD G. KINZLER, ’69L, and Mary Lynn
Buchan, on May 9, 1992. Kinzler is an attorney in
Somers Point, N.].

PETER J.ABITANTE, ’78, and Debra Ann Lane,
on March 28, 1992, in Thomasville, Ga. W&L
alumni in the wedding party included classmates
Harry Tudor Jones III, Michael J. Missal, Edmund

50 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

V. Wick, and George A. Makris Jr. Abitante is
director of information for the National Football
League in New York City.

JOHN H. FOLLANSBEE III, 78, and Julie K.
Gregg, on Sept. 15, 1992, in Pittsburgh.

FRANK W. ROGERS III, °79, ’84L, and Doris
Ruff Lamb, on Aug. 26, 1992, in Roanoke, Va.

SEAN R. SMITH, ’79, ’83L, and Jacqueline Ann
McMahon, on Oct. 3, 1992, in Saratoga Springs,
N.Y. Smith is an associate at the New York law firm
of Caulfield, Galvin, Heller, Harris & Colligan.

SCOTT G. McLAM, ’80, and Maureen Ann
McGeown, on Sept. 19, 1992, in Montclair, N.J.
McLam is a vice president at the Franco Manufac-
turing Co., a home furnishing textile concern in
New York.

BRUCE H. SCHWARTZ, ’80L, and Roni Sue
Kipnis, on July 12, 1992, in New York City. Schwartz
is a partner in the law firm of Jackson, Lewis,
Schnitzler & Krupman in New York.

GARY S. SHAFFER, ’81, and Renee Kinsinger, on
July 31, 1992, in Oklahoma City. Shaffer is a display
advertising sales manager at the Dai/y Oklahoman.

ROBERT M. WAYMOUTH, ’82, and Winnie
Kong, on Aug. 1, 1992, in Vancouver, British Co-
lumbia. The couple lives in Palo Alto, Calif., where
Waymouth is an assistant professor of chemistry at
Stanford University.

R. BLAKE WITHERINGTON, ’82, and Marg-
aret Mary Noonan, on Aug. 22, 1992, in Hampton,
N.H. Witherington is a vice president of J.P. Mor-
gan in New York.

MARK W. BUYCK III, ’83, and Virginia Brooks
Claus, on May 30, 1992, in Georgetown, S.C. The
wedding party included classmates Jackson Roger
Sharman III and John Groover Kennedy III and
David Mason Ellerbe, ’87, Edgar Lloyd Wilcox,
*87, and Cooper Crouch Crawford, ’87. The couple
lives in Florence, S.C., where the groom practices
law at the Wilcox law firm.

EJAY CLARK, ’83, and Kimberly Ann Mavetto, on
Nov. 7, 1992, in Norwalk, Conn.

EUGENE S. FORRESTER JR., °83L, and
Kathleen Marie Mooney, on Sept. 26, 1992. The
couple lives in Memphis, ‘Tenn.

STEPHEN P. GEARY, ’83, and KERI D.
HINRICHS, ’89, on May 30, 1992, in Charlotte,
N.C. W&L alumni in the wedding party included:
Carol A. Couch, ’89, Elizabeth A. Cummins, ’89,
David P. Favrot Jr., °82, William Geary, ’91L,
Covert J. Geary, ’80, Anne E. Geary, ’89, Clyde
M.B. Harkrader, ’82, Danatha Hoffman Helm, ’89,
Greg Hinrichs, ’93 , William Henry Langhorne III,
*83, Stephen E. Lewis, ’84, Valerie A. Pierson, ’89,
and Robert James Whann IV, ’86. The couple lives
in Shreveport, La., where Steve is continuing his
residency in orthopaedic surgery at the Shriners
Hospital. Keri was graduated from Tulane’s A.B.
Freeman School of Business with an M.B.A.

BRIAN L. HANSON, ’83, and Beatrice Marie
Mayer, on Oct. 10, in Washington D.C. Alumni in
the wedding party included classmates Vincent
John Fechtel III and Frank Langston Eppes. The
couple lives in Rockville, Md.

JOHN C. VLAHOPLUS, ’83, and Uma Muthu, on
Sept. 5, 1992, in New York City. He is an associate
at the N.Y. law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell.

PATRICIA WALTHER, ’83L, and James Griffin,
on May 16, 1992. The couple lives in Lewes, Del.,
and Walther-Griffin plans to practice law in
Georgetown.

FREDERICK G. JONES, ’85, and Carolyn Ann
Reichert, on May 9, 1992, in Donnelsville, Ohio.
The couple lives in State College, Pa., where he is
finishing his Ph.D. in material science, and she is
pursuing a Ph.D. in finance at Penn State.

PETER B. ROSENWALD II, ’85L, and Beth
Helaine Cohen, on Aug. 29, 1992, in Old Westbury,
N.Y. Rosenwald is a partner in the Baltimore law
firm of Weinberg & Green.

LAWRENCE S. ANKER, °86, and Wendy
Emanuelson, on Aug. 8, 1992, in State College, Pa.
Anker recently received his Ph.D. in chemistry
from Penn State and has accepted a position with
International Paper in Erie, Pa., as a senior research
engineer.

JOHN MANSFIELD FALK, ’86, ’90L, and
Jacqueline Stacey Gray, on Oct. 3, 1992, in Wash-
ington, D.C. Falk is an associate with the Washing-
ton, D.C., law firm of Falk & Causey.

JAMES L. HAYNE JR, ’86, and Alison Ware, on
May 30, 1992, in New Orleans, La., Alumni in the
wedding party included classmates Richard Patrick
Ferguson, Jeffrey Miles Hubbard, Townes Garrett
Pressler Jr., John Wakefield Ruffin, and Bradley
Wade Beutel, and Jefferson Michael Boswell, ’85,
and John Keener Hudson, ’87. The couple lives in
Cincinnati. Hayne recently received his M.B.A.
from the University of Texas at Austin.

H. FRASIER IVES, ’86L, and Jane Harris Spruill,
on June 6, 1992, in Charlotte, N.C. Ives was re-
cently named partner to the Charlotte law firm of
Moore & Van Allen.

CHRISTOPHER MARK KELLY, ’86L, and Jill
Walker, on April 4, 1992. Kelly is an attorney in
Charlotte, N.C.

JOHN C. MEHORTER,’87, and Mary Rose Ahern,
on Oct. 26, 1991. The couple lives in Plainfield,
N.J.

BRUCE D. PARTINGTON, ’87, and Elizabeth J.
Kaufman, on March 7, 1992. Alumniin the wedding
party included classmates Samuel Pruit Simpson V,
William Daniel Deep Jr., and Dennis Clarence
Samuel Jr. The groom is an attorney with the firm
of Clark, Partington & Hart, et. al., in Pensacola,
Fla.

‘THOMAS L. BELLAMY, ’88, and Vicki Marie
Walsh, on May 30, 1992. The wedding party in-
cluded W&L alumni Dean Nuckols, ’88, and R.
Scott Bell, 91. Both Thomas and Vicki are practic-
ing physical therapists in Augusta County, Va., and
they make their home in Stuarts Draft.

ERICH J. FABER, ’88, and Margaret G. Fueglein,
on Oct. 24, 1992. The couple lives in Roanoke, Va.
Faber is president of Faber & Company, C.P.A., in
Moneta, Va.

BRADLEY B. ROOT, ’88, and Holly Short, on
May 23, 1992, in Marthas Vineyard, Mass. W&L

alumni in the wedding party included David B.
Root, ’59, Joseph W. Rutter II, 65, John B. Lewis,
’86, and Shayman K. Menon, ’87, Gregory S. Geisel,
88, Theodore C. Waters III, ’88, and Frank F.
Kannapell, *89.

GREGORY D. RUSSELL, ’88, and Anne E.
Poulsen, on Sept. 26, 1992. The couple lives in
Columbus, Ohio.

JAMESS. WILLIAMS, ’88, and Courtenay Fraley,
on Aug. 29, 1992, in Birmingham, Ala., where Wil-
liams is an associate in the litigation department of
Sirote & Permutt, P.C.

CHRISTOPHER LEE CALLAS, ’89, and
Gretchen Trapp, on Aug. 8, 1992, in Morgantown,
W.Va. W&L alumni in the wedding party included
classmates Kevin A. Struthers, Jeffrey P. Schultz,
and John G. Pipkin. Callas was graduated from
Vanderbilt University School of Law and has joined
the firm of Jackson and Kelly in Morgantown.

KERI D. HINRICHS, °89 (see STEPHEN P.
GEARY, ’83).

FIONA P. HARKNESS, ’90, and Walter August
Blocker II, in Louisville, Ky. Other W&L alumni in
the wedding party included Chamie C. Schmildt,
91, and Susan M. Davis, ’90. The couple lives in
Louisville where Harkness is an assistant branch
manager at First National Bank of Louisville.

CAROLINE C. JENNINGS, ’90, and Samuel
Norris Holloway, on Aug. 15, 1992. W&L alumni in
the wedding party included classmates Meredith
M. Attwell, Melanie G. Brent, Virginia B. Brent, B.
Dallas Hagewood, Leigh G. Luter, and Elizabeth
T. Jennings, ’93, David E. Jennings, ’96, and Scott
W. Ford, ’90L. The bride is the daughter of John E.
Jennings, ’65. The couple lives in Gainesville, Fla.,
where Jennings is a loan officer for First Union.

REISS WILKS, ’90, and Covey E. Leggett, on May
30, 1992, at Skylark Farm, Washington and Lee’s
Conference Center on the Blue Ridge Parkway.
The wedding party included classmates ‘Todd
Bishop and Paul Galanides, and Dean Barry, °88,
and David Wilks, ’88L. The couple lives in Akron,
Ohio, where Wilks is in his first year at the Univer-
sity of Akron School of Law.

MELLISSA L. WELLER, ’91, and R. SCOTT
BELL, ’91, on Oct. 17, 1992, in Wilmington, Del.
W&L alumni in the wedding party included class-
mates Michael D. DeMelfi, Lydia J. Reid, Anne I.
Dysart, Melissa A. Jay, and Ingrid M. Schroeder,
and Todd C. Peppers, ’90, Delos R. Clark, 90. The
couple lives in Alexandria, Va.

ADRIENNE C. WEATHERFORD, ’91, and J.
Colby Howard, on July 25, 1992, in Lexington, Va.
The wedding party included Joanne E. Even, ’90,
Paige Kilian, 91, and Rebecca Howard, ’87L. The
couple lives in Newport, R.I.

JIMMY F. HUMBER IV, ’91, and Rivers Harlow,
on Aug. 1, 1992. The bride and groom are both
pursuing a doctorate of optometry at the Southern
College of Optometry in Memphis, Tenn.

ANDREW R. NIXON, ’91, and Deborah Bruce, on
Aug. 8, 1992. Nixon is a graduate studentat the Yale
Divinity School in New Haven, Conn.

I. was bound to happen. W&L’s
1992-93 Engagement Calendar isn’t
the only current calendar featuring
the work of University Photographer
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73. Hinely, an
award-winning jazz photographer, is
the featured pictorial artist for the
1993 calendar, “Jazz Musicians at
Work/Play.”

The calendar features 12 photo-
graphs from Hinely’s career as a jazz
photographer, including the above
shot of Pat Metheny, JazzFest, Ber-
lin 1990. Printed in Germany, it is
now available in the U.S.

Hinely has been pursuing his
musician subjects of choice since his
student days at W&L. The first to hit
print was a shot of the late Duane
Allman playing basketball backstage
in Doremus Gymnasium before the
Allman Brothers concert there in
1971. That photograph appeared in
the 1971 Calyx.

Since then, Hinely has been
shooting photographs for album cov-
ers, magazines, and books worldwide,
in addition to writing a few liner
notes. In 1988, he became news editor
for JaxzTimes, a Washington, D.C.-
based monthly. He writes about “ev-
erything from Grammy awards to
market trends to obituaries” for each

 

 

All that jazz

HINELY’S PHOTOS NOW GRACE SECOND CALENDAR

issue, making use of the journalism
degree he earned nearly 20 years
ago upstairs in Reid Hall.

His 1993 jazz musicians calen-
dar was produced by JazzFest Ber-
lin, in conjunction with Hinely’s ex-
hibition of his jazz photographs there
in November. His photographs were
on display at Berlin’s downtown
Galerie FNAC, as well as at the
gallery space in Berlin’s Philhar-
monic Hall. His attendance at this
year’s JazzFest marked the seventh
consecutive trip Hinely and his
camera have made to the annual jazz
music festival in Berlin.

‘The photographs on the calen-
dar all come from Hinely’s previous
trips to Berlin, but his exhibition
this fall included a number of shots
from Lexington events, including
his award-winning image of Freddie
Green and the Count Basie Orches-
tra, as well asa picture of Bela Fleck,
who performed at the Lime Kiln
Theaterin 1992. The Freddie Green
shot won first place in the interna-
tional Jazz Photo ’85 competition.

Copies of the calendar, which
measures 18 by 22.5 inches, are avail-
able through the W&L Bookstore.
The cost, including shipping and
handling, is $25.

 

 

 

 

 

WA&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 51

 

Births

 

 

 

DR. and MRS. JULIAN C. JOSEY, JR., ’60, a
daughter, Rachel Lancaster, on Aug. 3, 1992. The
family lives in Spartanburg, S.C.

MR. and MRS. JOHN F. LILLARD III, 69, ’71L,
a son, John Franklin IV, on Sept. 23, 1992. The
family lives in Washington, D.C.

DR. and MRS. BARRY W. MITCHELL, ’71, a
daughter, Samantha Payton, on Aug. 28, 1992. The
family makes it home in Delmar, N.Y.

MR. and MRS. DOUGLAS R. CLELAN, ’73, a
daughter, Jordan Elizabeth, by adoption, on July
23, 1992, in Camp Hill, Pa. Jordan was born on
March 9, 1992, near Seoul, Korea.

MR. and MRS. ANDREW D. STANIAR, ’73, a
son, Parker, on June 10, 1992. The family lives in
Sudbury, Mass.

MR. and MRS. P. BRYAN CHASNEY, ’74, a
daughter, Meredith Frances, on July 4, 1992. She
joins her brother Bryan, Jr. The family lives in
Baltimore.

MR. and MRS. TIMOTHY R. VAUGHAN, ’77, a
son, Wilson Graham, on June 27, 1992. The family
lives in Dallas, where Vaughan is a partner in the
firm of Vaughan & Anderson.

MR. and MRS. DANIEL C. COFFEY, ’78, a son,
Daniel Brittigan, on March 10, 1992, in Lexington,
Va.

MR. and MRS. J. DORMAN WALKER JR., 78, a
daughter, Katherine Lanier, on March 10, 1992.
The family lives in Montgomery, Ala., where Walker
practices law with Balch & Bingham.

MR.and MRS. E. PHILIP MANGUM JR., ’80, a
son, James Benjamin, on April 21, 1992. He joins
his brothers, Philip, 10, and William, 9, and a sister,
Kathryn, 6. The family lives in Memphis, Tenn.,
where Philip is president and general manager of
Parsons Cabinet Co. in Osceola, Ark.

MR. and MRS. SAMUEL H. CAMPBELLIV,’81,
ason, Samuel Henegar V, on June 26, 1992. He joins
two sisters, Elizabeth Babcock, and Caroline
Upchurch. The family lives in Lookout Mountain,
Tenn.

NANCY CAMPBELL HALVERSTADT, ’81L,
and her husband, Loren, a daughter, Alexandra
Jeanne, on Aug. 18, 1992. The family lives in Poway,
Calif.

CAROLYN SAFFOLD-HEYWARD WILSON,
*81L, and her husband Rhys, a daughter, Emma
Rutledge, on July 7, 1992. She joins her brother,
Addison, 3. The family lives in Atlanta, where
Carolyn is a partner with Parker, Johnson, Cook &
Dunlevie.

MR. and MRS. RICHARD A. BAER, ’83, a son,
Kyle Christopher, on June 25, 1992. He joins a
sister, Brittany, 3. Baer works for Hermes Abrasives
in Virginia Beach, Va.

THOMAS E. BAKER JR, ’83, °87L, and LAURA
MISNER BAKER, ’87L, a son, Charles Thomas,

52 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

on Aug. 13, 1992. The family lives in Corpus Christi,
Texas.

MR. and MRS. JAMES L. BALDWIN JR., ’83, a
daughter Sarah Pennington, on Aug. 6, 1992. The
family lives in Dallas.

MR. and MRS. E. STEWARD BUTLER, ’83, a
son, on May 22, 1992. He joins a brother, Matthew,
4. The family lives in Lewiston, N.Y.

MR. and MRS. W. JAMES JONAS III, ’83, a
daughter, Margaret Elizabeth, on Aug. 26, 1992.
The family lives in Austin, ‘Texas, where Jonas is a
shareholder to McCamish, Martin & Loeffler.

MR. and MRS. HENRY F. SEWELL JR., ’83, a
son, Henry F. III, on April 24, 1992. Sewell is an
associate with the law firm Hicks, Muloof &
Campbell in Aclanta.

MR. and MRS. BRADFORD VAUGHAN, ’83, a
son, Griffin Brooks, on Aug. 16, 1992. The family
lives in Seattle.

MR. and MRS. ANTHONY J. ZACCAGNINI, 83,
a son, Tyler Mims, on July 20, 1992. The family
lives in Falls Church, Va.

MR. and MRS. CHRISTOPHER K. DAVIS, ’84, a
son, Christopher Kent Jr., on Oct. 14, 1992. He joins
a sister Mason, 4. The family lives in Richmond, Va.

MR. and MRS. ANDREW J. DEWING, ’84, a son,
Edward Hunter Pleasant, on July 21, 1992. The
family lives in Herndon, Va.

MR. and MRS. MARK H. EASTHAM, ’84, a
daughter, Katherine Locke, on Oct. 6, 1992, in
Alexandria, Va.

DOLORES SCHMITT FARMER, ’84L, and her
husband, Edward, a son Justin Edward, on Oct. 12,
1992. The family lives in Salem, Va.

MR. and MRS. CHARLES J. FOX, °84, a son,
Charles James V, on June 10, 1992. Fox is a manager
with Ferguson Enterprises in Atlanta.

MR. and MRS. GEORGE M. LUPTON III, 84, a
son, Morgan, on Oct. 31, 1992. The family lives in
Lynchburg, Va.

MR. and MRS. CHRISTOPHER H. BROOKS,
"85, adaughter, Emily Boggs, on Aug. 18, 1992. The
family recently relocated to Atlanta where Brooks is
opening offices for First Source Inc.

MR. and MRS. CHARLES M. MARTIN, ’85, a
son, Charles Maillot III (Chase), on Feb. 4, 1992.
He joins a sister, Haley, 2. The family lives in
Irving, Texas.

MR. and MRS. THOMAS KERR, ’86, a son,
Alexander, on Sept. 15, 1992. He joins a sister,
Sarah. The family lives in Wilmington, Del.

MR. and MRS. ANTHONY D. McCANN, ’86, a
son, Patrick Leo. The family lives in Huntington,
N.Y.

MR. and MRS. J. CHRISTOPHER SPEAR, ’86, a
daughter, Marie Louise, on Sept. 2, 1992. The
family lives in Charlotte, N.C.

PETER JOHN WALSH JR., ’86L, and NEILLI
MULLEN WALSH,’87L, a daughter, Mara Claire,

on June 30, 1992. The family lives in Hockessin,
Del.

LAURA MISNER BAKER, ’87L (see THOMAS
E. BAKER JR, ’83, ’87L).

MR. and MRS. RODNEY LEE MOORE, ’87L, a
son, Rodney Maxon, on Jan. 28, 1992. The family
lives in Dallas.

NEILLI MULLEN WALSH, ’87L (see PETER
JOHN WALSH, ’86L).

SANDRA MORRIS HOLLERAN, ’88L, and
JOHN E. HOLLERAN, ’88L a son, John Edward,
Jr., on Sept. 19, 1992. He joins a sister, Jordan, 2.
John works for the law firm of Hunton & Williams,
and Sandi works for the law firm of McGuire,
Woods, Battle & Boothe. The family lives in Rich-
mond, Va.

MR. and MRS. KATHLEEN KEITH ODDO,
’88L, a daughter, Lauren Elizabeth, on Oct. 11,
1992. The family lives in Roanoke, Va.

MR. and MRS. GARY W. SCHOTT, ’88, a daugh-
ter, Sara Carlin, on Oct. 17 , 1992. The family lives
in Lawrence, Kan.

MR. and MRS. JAMES K. VINES, ’88L, a son,
Ethan Spencer, on March 29, 1992. Vines practices
environmental law with King & Spalding in At-
lanta.

MARIE DUNNE-WHITE, ’89, and her husband,
John, a son, Alexander Kavanaugh, on Sept. 22,
1992. The family lives in Centreville, Va.

MR. and MRS. MICHAEL L. WASHINGTON,
*89, ason, William Augustine, on June 23, 1992. He
and his wife, Sans, live in Owensboro, Ky., where
Washington is pursuing his masters’ in American
history.

MR. and MRS. JEFFREY COLE, ’90L, a son,
William Lee, on Aug. 13, 1992. He joins his sister,
Rachel Victoria. Cole practices with White, Elliot &
Bundy in Abingdon, Va.

MR. and MRS. DAVID LYNN GOODE, ’90L, a
daughter, Kayla Lynn, on Sept. 12, 1992. The
family lives in Greensboro, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. JEFFERSON EDWARD
HOWETH, ’92L, a daughter, Katherine JoAnn, on
June 22, 1992. The family lives in Tulsa, Okla.

 

 

 

lnMemoniam

 

C.B. FOSTER, °13L, retired assistant circulation
manager for the Memphis Commercial Appeal, on
Sept. 9, 1992, at the age of 101. A member of Delta
‘Tau Delta fraternity, Foster held various jobs be-
fore he began work for the newspaper in 1933. A
World War I veteran, he was a member of Trinity
United Methodist Church.

DEWEY A. REYNOLDS, ’22, of Plymouth, Ind.,
on June 18, 1992. He retired in 1952, from the U.S.
Bureau of Mines after 35 years. While with the
Bureau, his expertise was coal, and he was listed in
Men of Science magazine. He was a veteran of
World War I and a member of the First Presbyte-
rian Church.

i teas

 

oA writs, (ak OS

 

unica

 

WILLIAM E. HOLT, ’23, retired sales manager
for Continental Baking Co., on Nov. 28, 1991.
While at W&L, Holt was a member of Alpha Tau
Omega fraternity, and Omicron Delta Kappa. He
served as president of the student body. Following
graduation, he entered into business with his father
in the manufacturing and wholesale food industry.
He was appointed price administrator of the South-
ern States food and drug industry during World War
II. After the war, he joined Continental Baking Co.,
which produces Wonder Bread and Hostess Cup
Cakes, where he worked until his retirement in
1980. Holt was a member of the Second Presbyte-
rian Church in Memphis, Tenn..

HUGH B. SPROUL JR., ’26, on Sept. 18, 1992. He
served as the chairman of the Board of Directors of
the Erskine Company, vice president of National
Valley Bank, and director of United Va. Bankshares
Corporation. Sproul also served as a trustee of Mary
Baldwin College in Staunton, Va., and was founder
and past president of the Shenandoah Game and
Game Fish Association. He was also an active mem-
ber of the Masters of Foxhounds Association of
America.

ROBERT F. THOMPSON, ’27, in the spring of
1992.

DR. ISAAC H. SHUPP, °28, former dentist in
Hagerstown, Md., on Dec. 14, 1991.

THOMAS P. WRIGHT, ’29, of Blacksburg, Va.,
died Sept. 21, 1992. After graduating with B.A. and
M.A. degrees, he became a professor of English at

Shenandoah College and Conservatory of Music,
where he also served as faculty manager of athletics.
Three years later, he entered the public school field
at Great Falls, S.C., serving as high school teacher,
principal, and superintendent of schools. He also
served as superintendent of schools at Belton, S.C.
After leaving public school work, he became a
member of the English faculty at Virginia Polytech-
nic Institute and State University. He retired after
15 years. He was a member of Blacksburg Presby-
terian Church.

DAVID BALLON, ’30, retired Memphis, ‘Tenn.,
attorney, on Oct. 17, 1992. He was a World War II
Army veteran, a member of Temple Israel, past
presidentof the Memphisand Shelby County Safety
Council, former member of the board of governors
of the Tennessee Bar Association, former director
of the Mid-South Fair, and past president of the
Order of DeMolay.

JOHN H. HARDWICK, ’31, a retired banker and
civic and business leader in Louisville, Ky.,on Sept.
25, 1992. He was a member of Phi Delta Theta,
Omicron Delta Kappa, and Phi Beta Kappa.
Following his graduation from W&L, Hardwick
entered Harvard Business School, where he earned
his M.B.A. He started his business career with
New York’s Guaranty Trust Co. and joined Louis-
ville Trust in 1934. He was named president of
Louisville Trust in 1962 and chairman and CEO
in 1968. Hardwick received numerous civic awards
including thhe Louisville Chamber of Commerce
Gold Cup Award, the Spencerian College Citizen
Award, the Blanche Ottenheimer Award, and the

Better Business Bureau and Advertising Club of
Louisville Man of the Year Award in 1970-71. He
also was chairman of the Louisville Area Chamber
of Commerce. His civic involvement included
serving as president of the city Sinking Fund
Commission and of the Pendennis Club. He also
was a founder and vice chairman of the Louisville
Development Committee. He served as head of
the Louisville Bicentennial Commission and had
been president of the Greater Louisville Fund for
the Arts and the University of Louisville
International Center.

DR. WILLIAM D. HOYT JR., ’32, former profes-
sor of history at Loyola College, on Oct. 7, 1992.
Hoyt grew: up in Lexington, where his father was
the first professor of biology at Washington and
Lee. Hoyt was graduated from W&L summa cum
laude and Phi Beta Kappa. He earned his doctorate
at Johns Hopkins University and devoted much of
his life to teaching. He retired from teaching in 1956
and subsequently devoted his time to historical
research and publication and to various volunteer
community services. In 1989, he published the
book Valley Views: Lexington and Rockbridge County, Va.
1924-1940. The book contains 200 photographs of
the Rockbridge area. He also published HangingOn:
The Gloucester Waterfront in Change, 1927-1948. Hoyt
was a member of the Rockport (Mass.) Conserva-
tion Commission and founded the Halibut Point
Advisory Council. He was curator of the Sandy
Bay Historical Society and Museum for 25 years
and volunteered with the Rockport Friends of the
Library.

 

 

 

remember.”

 

 

James Keith Shillington, 1922-92

It is perhaps quite fitting that the inimitable James Keith Shillington made his final exit
during Homecoming weekend at Washington and Lee. He certainly made many memorable
entrances there.

Shillington, professor of chemistry at W&L for 38 years, died in Lexington’s Stonewall
Jackson Hospital on Sunday, Oct. 4, after a long illness. He was 70.

Shillington’s colorful dress and whimsical personality made hima familiar sight on the W&L
campus to generations of students. And, of course, for many years, the highlight of the annual
Homecoming football game was Shillington’s halftime presentation of the Homecoming Queen.

Bedecked in all manner of plaid, polka dots, and stripes, overgrown tie dragging the ground in front of him, and curious
cap perched ever so gingerly on his head, Shillington would announce the winner of the annual honor in his typically squeaky,
leprechauny, voice. Then, after presenting the poor child with the crown and bouquet, he would plant a Shillington-sized
kiss on the fair maiden, all in the spirit of fun.

A man of many talents and a great supporter of the arts, Shillington was an amateur actor (he appeared in many W&L
productions), writer of music, and art collector. But, as memorable as he was outside of the classroom, he was just as much
the force and spectacle inside it. He taught beginning organic chemistry, one of the toughest and most demanding classes
in the department and is co-author of W&L’s freshman lab manual and the author of his own organic laboratory manual.

A native of Clarion, Iowa, Shillington received his B.S. in chemistry from Iowa State University and his doctorate from
Cornell. After one year as an instructor at Amherst College, he applied for a position at W&L in 1953 and remained on the
faculty until his retirement in June 1991. Since 1988, scores of former W&L science students have made gifts to create the
James Keith Shillington Scholarship for rising juniors who show promise in the field of chemistry. ‘The family requests that
in lieu of flowers contributions be made to the scholarship fund.

“Keith was truly a larger-than-life character,” said Mike Pleva, a professor of chemistry at W&L since 1969. “He was
a major influence in this department and probably the one person that an awful lot of doctors who came out of W&L will

 

 

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 53

THE HON. CHARLES E. LONG JR., 32, retired
state District Judge, on Aug. 10, 1992. While at
W&L, Long was a member of Beta Theta Pi fra-
ternity, the varsity football team, the Albert Sidney
crew and business manager of the Ca/x. Following
graduation, he entered the Southern Methodist
University Law School. After three years of private
practice, he served as assistant city attorney in
Dallas until 1942, when he joined the armed forces.
During the war, he had a distinguished record as a
deck officer in the U.S. Navy and attained the rank
of lieutenant commander before returning to civil-
ian life in 1945. For a brief period, he served as
counsel to the House of Representatives Commit-
tee on the Judiciary. Later, he returned to Dallas
and became a partner in the law firm of Touch-
stone, Long & Bernays. He also took charge of the
civil section of the district attorney’s office. In 1953,
he was appointed Judge of the 13th District Court,
a position he held for 24 years. Long was a former
president of the Dallas Lions Club and the SMU
Law School Alumni Association. He served as an
elder and trustee of the First Presbyterian Church
and as a trustee of the Hatton W. Sumners Founda-
tion. Long was also a member of Omicron Delta
Kappa, Blue Key, Phi Alpha Delta law fraternity,
and the American Judicature Society.

ROBERT M. OLMSTED, ’32, chairman of the
board of Olmsted-Kirk Paper Company, on Sept.
11, 1992. A native of Dallas, Olmsted served as
chairman of the wholesale paper corporation his
father founded in the early 1900s. Olmsted was
associated with numerous civic organizations in
Dallas, including the Salesmanship Club of Dallas,

the Dallas County Child Welfare Board, the Dallas
Historical Society, the Senior Citizens of Dallas,
the State Fair of Texas, the Dallas Community
Council, the Dallas Fine Arts Association, the
Dallas Day Nursery Association and the Rotary
Club of Dallas. He was also a member of the
Printing Industries Association of Texas, National
Paper Trade, and the Dallas Litho Club.

GEORGE A. HENRY JR., ’33, on April 13, 1992.
He lived in Montrose, Alla..

M.PEEL RIVERS, ’33, retired insurance salesman
for Equitable Life Assurance Co. in Louisville, Ky.,
on June 24, 1992.

ROBERT K. TURNEY, ’34, retired treasurer of
the People’s Bank of Bridgeport (Conn.), on July
15, 1992. He was a member of Pi Kappa Alpha
fraternity and attended Rutgers University Gradu-
ate School of Banking and Dartmouth College
Advanced Management School of Development
following his graduation from W&L. Turney was a
member of Washington Lodge 19, the Sugar Mill
Country Club, and was an Army veteran of World
War II.

DR. RALPH D. WHITLEY, ’34, retired Washing-
ton, D.C., general surgeon, on Aug. 29. A resident
of Bethesda, Md., he practiced surgery from the
early 1940s until 1977 and was associated with
Sibley Memorial Hospital and Washington Hospi-
tal Center. After completing his sophomore year at
W&L, Whitley decided to study medicine and

transferred to George Washington University in
1932. He served as a Naval Flight Surgeon during
World War II. He resigned his commission and
practiced surgery in Washington, D.C., until 1977.
Whitley was a member of the Army-Navy Club,
Chevy Chase Club, and served as an elder in the
Presbyterian Church.

‘THEODORE E. CARR, ’35, of Leesburg, Fla., on
April 26, 1992.

EARLY C. CLEMENTS, ’35L, former attorney
with Clements & Clements in Rolling Fork, Miss.,
on June 6, 1992. Clements was a member of Kappa
Alpha Orderand wasactive in the Methodist Church
and Rotary Club.

EDWIN T. COULBOURN, ’35, former city attor-
ney in Suffolk, Va., on Oct. 1, 1992. While at W&L,
Coulbourn was a member of Kappa Alpha Order,
Following graduation, he practiced law in the of-
fices of G.A. Harris and became partner in 1940. In
1941, he formed a law partnership with James L.
McLemore. Coulbourn was a veteran of World War
II. After the war, he practiced law in Coulbourn &
McLemore until 1975 when he became city attor-
ney for the City of Suffolk. Coulbourn was a former
member of the Suffolk School Board and served on
the P.D. Pruden Foundation Board. He was a mem-
ber of Main Street United Methodist Church, the
American Legion, and Suffolk Rotary Club.

WILLIAM W. GERBER, ’35, former vice presi-
dent of National Gypsum Co. and a World War II

 

 

 

of Lexington High School.

 

 

E. Claybrook Griffith, 1915-92

Edwin Claybrook Griffith, professor of economics at Washington and Lee from
1946-80, died Nov. 21 in Lexington after a long illness.

A native of Westmoreland County, Virginia, Griffith was a graduate of Hampden-
Sydney College. He received his M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Virginia.

Griffith began his career as an instructor at Berea College. He was an assistant and
associate professor of economics at the University of Georgia before joining the faculty
at W&L in 1946. Griffith was the Mamie Fox Twyman Martel Professor of Economics
at W&L. His fields of interest were the principles of economics, comparative economic
systems, labor problems, and labor organizations. He was the author of many articles,
was a member of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, and assisted in the
arbitration of several important labor disputes.

Griffith was head of the economics department at W&L for 30 years, occupying the same third-floor office in
Newcomb Hall for his entire 34 years at the University.

A leader both on and off campus, Griffith was a member of the Lexington Town/City School Board from 1960-
71, serving as chairman from 1968-71. He was past president of the Lexington Community Chest and was a member
of the Lexington Planning Commission, the Lexington High School Board, and the Joint Committee for the Control

Speaking just before his retirement, Griffith was happy with his years of service and the institution he served.

“I think one of the greatest attributes of the University is its emphasis on classroom performance—for both
faculty and students,” he said. “Of course, research is also emphasized and there is ample opportunity allowed for it,
but W&L allows people whose main interest is teaching to do just that.

"1 have enjoyed my years here immensely—they have been a delightful experience. I think the proof of that is
the fact that in all my time here, I never made a serious attempt to find a teaching position at another university.”

 

 

 

 

54 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

veteran, on Sept. 29,
1992. While at W&L, he
was a member of Delta
Tau Delta. Following
graduation, he went to
work for the National
Gypsum Co. He enlisted
in the Army in 1942 and
headed his class at Of-
ficers Candidate School
at Fort Benning. He
fought in Africa, Sicily,
and southern France

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARMCHAIRS AND ROCKERS

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer and dark pine
stain. ‘The five color crest of the University is painted on the back of each chair or rocker. They
are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair goes to the
scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, 14.

University with a B.S.
in business administra-
tion in 1951 and re-
ceived his graduate
degree from the Gradu-
ate School of Savings
and Loans at the Uni-
versity of Indiana in
1960. Wallis spent
more than three de-
cades of his life in the
savings and loan indus-
try, including 18 years
with First Federal Sav-

 

with the 45th Infantry
Division and was

ings and Loan Associa-

wounded three times. ARMCHAIR BosTON ROCKER tion of Osceola County
After the war, he re- © Black lacquer with cherry arms © Black lacquer in Kissimmee, Fla.,
turned to National Gyp- © Dark pine © Dark pine *The Boston Rocker requires where he rose to presi-
sum and rose to the top ©$235.00 ©$220.00 some assembly. dentand CEO. Healso

sales job, retiring in 1977.
He was a member of
Westminster Presbyte-
rian Church, the Buffalo
Area Chamber of Com-
merce, and the Buffalo
Executives Club. In re-
tirement, he was a vol-
unteer for the local chap-

Mail your order to:

 

To order: Include your name, address, your telephone number, and a telephone number, if known, for the
delivery location. Indicate chair or rocker and color. Make check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Please allow
6-8 wecks delivery. Prices include freight charges.

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

served as presidentand
CEO of First Federal
Savings and Loan of
Martin County in
Stuart and chief man-
aging officer, director,
and president of First
Fidelity Savings and
Loan in Winter Park,

 

 

terof the American Can-
cer Society.

 

Fla., which later be-
came American Pio-

 

 

ANGUS A. McDONALD, ’37, president of
McDonald Brothers, on Aug. 3, 1992. He was an
elder in the Presbyterian Church in West End,
N.C., and served as director and vice president of
Moore Memorial Hospital in the mid 1970s.

CHARLES E. ROTH, ’37, former partner in the
Greensboro, N.C., law firm of Carruthers and Roth,
on June 10, 1992. While at W&L, Roth was a
member of Phi Epsilon Pi fraternity and was elected
to Phi Beta Kappa. He received his law degree from
Harvard University and practiced law in New York
City for a short time before and after serving in the
military during World War II. In June of 1947, he
moved to Greensboro, N.C., and practiced law in
the partnership Falk, Carruthers & Roth, which
later became Carruthers & Roth, P.A., concentrat-
ing on estate planning and administration and busi-
ness matters. In 1985, he became Of Counsel to the
firm. Memorial contributions may be made to the
Hospice at Greensboro or Temple Emanuel in
Greensboro.

HEATH J. CHILDRESS JR., ’40L, retired assis-
tant vice president and branch manager of First &
Merchants National Bank, on May 27, 1992.
Childress served in the U.S. Navy from 1942 to
1946 and spent time in Africa, Italy, Saipan, and
China. After leaving the military, he took a position
with the Roanoke Industrial Loan Corp. as their
assistant secretary treasurer. In 1953, he joined
Mountain Trust Bank in Roanoke, Va., and worked
there until the late 1970s, when he took a position
with First & Merchants. Childress was active in the
First Presbyterian Church, Lakeland Lodge, Kazim
‘Temple, and the Optimist Club.

JAMES R. CAMM, ’43, formerly of Palisades, Ca-
lif. While at W&L, he was a member of the Glee
Club and Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

JOSEPH P. ADAMS, °46, former president and
treasurer of Perkins and Geoghegan Inc., on Sept.
17, 1992. Adams was a veteran of World War II and
worked for the FBI for two years following his

military service. In retirement, adams devoted his
efforts to the St. John Social Center in the West End
of Cincinnati, participating in the agency’s food and
clothing drives for the homeless.

DR. WILLIAM W. KITCHIN JR., 48, retired
professor of human resources administration at St.
Leo’s College in Florida. He also taught at the
‘Tidewater (Va.) Center, Fort Eustis, and Langley
Air Force Base.

THE REV. JAMES TT. MAGRUDER, ’49, who
retired this year as mission interpretation and pro-
motion director of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.),
on Aug. 5, 1992. While at W&L, he was a member
of Kappa Alpha Order and the Glee Club. Follow-
ing graduation, he entered Union Theological Semi-
nary and was ordained as an evangelist missionary
in 1952. He performed missionary work in Japan
from 1952 to 1971 and then served at church head-
quarters in Louisville, Ky., until his retirement.

JOHN S.R. SCHOENFELD, ’49, president and
owner of Intercest Ltd. and Growth Stock Outlook
Partners, on Aug. 22, 1992. Following his gradua-
tion from Washington and Lee, he began work for
Merrill Lynch where he remained until 1951 when
he joined a Washington, D.C., investment firm,
Ferris & Co. He remained with Ferris for nearly 18
years, and resigned in 1969 to accept a five-year
term as executive vice president of the National
Association of Securities Dealers Inc., a regulatory
body. After his term at NASD, he joined an inter-
national think tank in Washington whose co-chair-
men were former President Gerald Ford and former
Secretary of State Dean Rusk. In 1982, he estab-
lished Intervest Ltd., which assisted major banks
and foreign corporations in their acquisition of U.S.
companies. Later, he formed G.S.O. Partners, which
improves the investment performance of major
pension funds.

WILLIAM T. WALLISIII, ’50, Stuart, Fla., banker
and community leader, on Oct. 7, 1992. While at
Washington and Lee, he was a member of Sigma
Nu fraternity and business manager of The Ring-
Tum Phi. He was graduated from Florida State

neer Savings Bank. He
retired in 1987. Wallis served on numerous civic
and industry organizations including the East Cen-
tral Florida Regional Planning Council, the Florida
State Chamber of Commerce as director, president
of the Greater Kissimmee Chamber of Commerce,
president and chairman of the Industrial Develop-
ment Corporation of Florida, commissioner of the
Reedy Creek Improvement District, treasurer of
the Martin County Audubon Society, president of
the Florida Savings and Loan League, executive
committe member of the U.S. Savings and Loan
League, director of Federal Home Loan Bank of
Atlanta, director and president of Florida Savings
and Loan Services Inc. and the Walt Disney World
Community Service Award Committee. He was a
life-long member of the Episcopal Church, re-
ceived the Outstanding Floridian Award in 1971,
and was named in Who’s Who in the Southeast in 1975
and 1980.

RICHARDA. POWELL,’59, former reading teach-
ing specialist with the U.S. Department of Defense
Overseas Dependents Schools, in August 1992.
Powell spent most of his adult life teaching English
in Japan and Bermuda. He was a member of the
International Reading Association, the Overseas
Education Association, the AFL/CIO American
Federation of ‘Teachers, and the National Educa-
tion Association.

EDWIN P. SAPINSLEY JR., 59, former Mem-
phis, Tenn., real estate developer, on Oct. 21, 1992.
He was past president of the Memphis Zoological
Society and a member of Temple Israel in Rainier,
Wash.

JOHN R. CANTERBURY, ’64L, former sales con-
sultant for Coast Cadillac in Sarasota, Fla., and
attorney with Kimes and Jolly in Salem, Va., on
Aug. 1, 1992. While at W&L, he was member of the
Law Review and Student Bar Association.

DOUGLASS. KNOX, ’68L, former vice president

and associate general counsel to Daniels & Associ-
ates, Inc. in Denver, on May 22, 1992.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 55

 

Alumni College

CAMPUS

BRAIN & MIND: WHO ARE WE AND How Do We Know? (June 20-26)

A layman’s investigation of the most exciting frontier of physical science today, the human brain. We’ll examine several
of the latest scientific discoveries in neurobiology but also explore the profoundly human questions that arise from new
understandings of how the mind works. A timely program for what our federal government has proclaimed “The Decade
of the Brain.” Joining W&L faculty Dave Caudill, Dave Elmes, Len Jarrard, Tyler Lorig, Ramsey Martin, and Tom
Urbach will be Paul R. McHugh, head of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at the Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine.

Crvit WAR BIOGRAPHIES (June 27-July 3)

In a return to one of the most popular Alumni College topics in recent years, our “Civil War Biographies” program will
focus on the lives of those who experienced the crises in American history firsthand. Featured in the unique biographical
approach to the War will be opposing generals W.T. Sherman and A.P. Hill, the footsoldier Wilbur Fisk, the poet Walt
Whitman, the slave and author Frederick Douglass, the politician Stephen Douglas, and Mary Chestnut, among others.
Joining W&L faculty Ted Delaney, Holt Merchant, Pam Simpson, and Jim Warren will be James “Bud” Robertson, noted
Civil War historian and the Alumni Distinguished Professor of History at Virginia Tech.

CHINA: THE DRAGON AND THE SQUARE (Ju/y 4-10)

A broad sweep through the history of China, with special attention to the cultural history of the world’s oldest empire.
Though we'll begin with “The Tiger of Qin,” China’s first emperor (221-206 B.C.), we'll spend most of our time focusing
on the deep patterns of Chinese thought and culture, including China’s religious heritage, and the art, literature, and
music that endure to this day. We'll also explore the political revolutions of the 20th Century and discuss recent movement
toward Western capitalism. Special features of the program include instruction in Chines brush painting and in Chinese
porcelain and art as represented by the marvelous Reeves Center and Watson Gallery collections.

THE Heroic AGE IN GREECE (Juty /1-/7)

Forget “where have all the heroes gone.” Better to ask, “Where did they come
from?” This program will explore Ancient Greece and the origins of Western
Civilization, especially for its legacy of heroic values. We'll examine Homer’s
[liad and Odyssey and several other classic works of Greek literature for what
they tell us about the heroic, as well as our Classical, heritage. Indeed, how
much of what we know about Ancient Greece is really “Greek”? Joining W&L
faculty Harry Pemberton, Florinda Ruiz, Taylor Sanders, and Herman Taylor
will be the distinguished teacher and classicist Christopher Pelling of University
College, Oxford. A Greek Island cruise program will follow in September-
October of 1993. ;

i s! : “ > a. be ¢ ~ 7 ¢
Ma ee oe ee eo ee ee

ABROAD

Ask us about these W&L-sponosored educational travel programs:

EGYPT AND THE NILE (March 22-April7)
with Kent Weeks

SEA OF CORTEZ AND THE COPPER CANYON (March 22-31)
with Westbrook Barritt

 

RussIA YESTERDAY AND Topay (Apri/17-May 1)

 

with Bill Jenks
For further information, contact: GRAND CANYON RAFTING EXPEDITION (August 13-22)
Office of Special Programs with Kirk Follo and Ed Spencer
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450 THE CLASSICAL WORLD OF THE AEGEAN (Sept. 18-October2)
(703) 463-8723 with Christopher Pelling

56 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

IIDI3

eh A. SS

mp & UN I ON Ss

HONORING
THE UNDERGRADUATE AND LAW CLASSES

1943 1948

1968 1973

1958 1963

1983 1988

Cluster Reunions will be held for
‘The Undergraduate and Law Classes

1957 1958 1959

Thursday evening, May 6

Reunion Keynote Address

Speaker: Dr. Sidney M.B. Coulling I11, ’46, Professor of English Emeritus

Reception at the Alumni House

F'niday, May 7

Reunion Seminars

“WL Today: “A Student Panel Discussion” and
“Law School Admissions”

“Vietnam: An Oral History,”
Sponsored by the Class of 1968

“China: The Tiger Purrs?”

“Sturm und Drang: Alliances and Tensions in the New Europe”

“Education in America: Some Local Reflections”

Cocktails with the Faculty
Buffet Dinner featuring the

Johnny McClenon Big Band
Reunion Dance featuring Spectrum

1977 1978 1979

 

 

Saturday, May &

Annual Joint Meeting of the Undergraduate and
Law Alumni Associations in Lee Chapel

Picnic Luncheon

The Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic:

Generals vs. Keydets

Class Banquets and Parties

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee University

US Ste
Alumni Magazine LO
Lexington, Virginia 24450 kit
PERMIT NO. 714

LYNCHBURG, VA

 

 

 

 

