The Washington and Lee University Alumni Magazine
FALL 1993

 

   
   

ence lakes Priority
Ison Plans Retirement
uring Tombstone Territory

  

| i

UIEDOW PYeMpPy .O10Ug

 

eS a

Pr

and his Tombstone Epttaph,

a4 Ro sigs Biss SECA Nt eter mre
£ et jue " Ie re artke svete

Ke — ERECT ze ue ree

Twa gies ee Ss es Ak atte:

bers

is nl

“The National Newspaper

Editor Wallace Clayton
of the Old West.”

 

JAMES G. LEYBUMN LIBRARY

14 / Wilson Plans Retirement.
Washington and Lee’s 21st president will step down

at the conclusion of the capital campaign in 1995.

16 / A Passion for Porcelain.
Elizabeth Otey Watson’s greatest gift—a pavilion for

Asian arts—began with a marriage made in China.

19 / Let’s Count All the Lawyers.
In our first-ever ranking of the top 24 W&L law firms,
well, there’s Hunton & Williams—and 23 others.

22 / The Wally, Wally West.
The Zombstone (Ariz.) Epitaph had been left for dead

when a man named Wallace Clayton rode into town.

27 / Physical Science.
For a new breed of teachers and the next generation of students,

the proposed science center is the $20 million solution.

DEPARTMENT

2 / From the Alumni President.

‘To paraphrase Mason New, home is where your chapter is.

3 / Letters.
Meditations on Zollmans; Spectator support; tux redux;

and James Graham Leyburn’s definition of a hero.

6 / The Colonnade.

Freshman impressions of W&L; an anniversary salute to the Annual Fund;

the new U.S. News survey; and a (skyward) look at Homecoming.

32 / The Ex-Generals’ Report.
Pat Dennis 78 and Mike Pressler 82 made the difficult transition

from the playing field to the sidelines, and they made it look easy.

35 /W&L Law.

‘Teacher, babysitter, domicile—Lewis Hall is all these to the law student.

36 / Alumni News.
A three-way tie for the W&L Open; a new date (sort of)

for reunion weekend; and a full house for Alumni College.

40 / Class Notes.

Catch up with your classmates, then check out David Long’s take on the new

tax laws; Roger Day’s new disk; and the W&L player behind the Sugar Bowl.
On the Cover: Assistant biology professor Darcy Russell with a DNA model.

Back Cover: Late Ming Dynasty bronze Buddha; gift of Mrs. William C. Watson.
Photos by W. Patrick Hinely °73.

NOV 0 5 1993

Avik
216A

WBN TAlU

\y. (& WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

» ra
*_ A. Stevens Miles Jr. ‘51, Rector

 

From the Alumni President

John D. Wilson, President

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC.
OFFICERS

Mason T. New ‘62

President (Richmond, Va.)

Robert K. Wittpenn ‘82

Vice President (Peapack, N.J.)

James D. Farrar Jr. ‘74

Secretary and Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

Robert W.H. Mish Ill ‘76

Associate Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

DIRECTORS

Michael D. Armstrong *77 (Atlanta, Ga.)

R.K. Barton III °63 (Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.)
T. Talbott Bond °51 (Baltimore, Md.)

E. Neal Cory II ’77 (Louisville, Ky.)

Ben S. Gambill Jr. 67 (Nashville, Tenn.)

J. Michael Jenkins III 64 (Montgomery, Ala.)
Robert S. Keefe ’68 (New York, N.Y.)

H. Drake Leddy ’71 (San Antonio, Texas)

Henry “Skip” Nottberg III ’71 (Kansas City, Mo.)
William J. Russell Jr. 57 (Palm Beach, Fla.)
Alexa A. Salzman 89 (San Francisco, Calif.)
Jackson R. Sharman III °83 (Washington, D.C.)
Hatton C.V. Smith ’73 (Birmingham, Ala.)

J. Frank Surface Jr. °60 (Jacksonville, Fla.)

J.E. “Jet” Taylor III °84 (Walnut Creek, Calif.)
James M. Turner Jr. 67, ’°71L (Roanoke, Va.)

H. William Walker Jr. °68, °71L (Miami, Fla.)
Donald W. Weir Jr. ’72 (Shreveport, La.)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
OFFICERS
Charles B. Tomm ‘68, ‘75L

President (Jacksonville, Fla.)
James C. Treadway Jr. ‘67L
Vice President (New York, N.Y.)

Law COUNCIL

Charles M. Berger ’68L (Charlotte, N.C.)

Alfred J.T. Byrne °65, ’68L (Washington, D.C.)
Robert M. Couch ’78, ’82L (Birmingham, Ala.)
William R. Goodell ’80L (Atlanta, Ga.)

Theodore D. Grosser °77L (Cincinnati, Ohio)
Robin P. Hartmann ’71L (Dallas, Texas)

Milton T. Herndon *56L (Charleston, W.Va.)
Carol L. Hoshall ’83L (Alexandria, Va.)

James W. Jennings Jr. ’65, ’72L (Roanoke, Va.)
John D. Klinedinst ’71, ’*78L (San Diego, Calif.)
Thomas M. Millhiser ’81L (Richmond, Va.)

Dana C. Petersen ’82L (Baltimore, Md.)

The Hon. W. Ray Price ’78L (Jefferson City, Mo.)
W. Bryce Rea Jr. ’41L (Vienna, Va.)

David D. Redmond °66, °69L (Richmond, Va.)

B. Cary Tolley III ’78L (Darien, Conn.)

Elizabeth Turley ’80L (Chicago, Ill.)

Patricia A. Van Allan ’80L (Houston, Texas)

John A. Wolf ’69, °72L (Baltimore, Md.)

Thomas K. Wotring ’75L (Bethesda, Md.)

The W&L Network

Let’s say you’re a recent W&L graduate and you’ve
just moved to a new city. Or maybe you’re an older
alumnus or alumna who’s putting down roots after a
recent transfer. How do you make connections—or as
they say these days, “network?” Where do you begin?

You could start by becoming involved in your local
Washington and Lee alumni chapter’s activities. From
Robert E. Lee Birthday celebrations to golf and tennis
tournaments, there are many occasions throughout the

 

year when you can meet your fellow alumni while
becoming more informed about the University and its
alumni programs.

Luncheons are frequently held featuring guest speakers from the University, such
as John Elrod, dean of the college, or Michael Walsh, director of athletics. University
historian Taylor Sanders and history professor Holt Merchant ’61 have presented
their popular seminar, “Robert E. Lee: Soldier and Educator,” prior to tailgate parties
at football games. On other occasions, such as our annual receptions for incoming
freshmen and their parents, chapter events are held in private homes for a more per-
sonal setting.

As we begin the 1993-94 year, the directors of the Alumni Board look forward to
improving communications with the alumni chapters throughout the United States
and helping initiate events which will encourage increased participation in chapter
activities.

Under the auspices of the Alumni Board’s Chapter Development Committee,
board members will be phoning each chapter president several times throughout the
year to exchange constructive thoughts and ideas. And we will be inviting chapter
leaders to Lexington periodically to meet with Alumni Board members and the W&L
administration and staff. A visit to the campus always invigorates one’s enthusiasm!

Your memories of W&L can be rekindled by getting acquainted with other alumni
in your area. As you are no doubt aware, many are leaders in their communities and
others will be leaders in the years to follow. And of course, there are others like you
who may be new to the area who occasionally need assistance acclimating themselves
to new surroundings. You can meet them through your local chapter.

Please support your chapter presidents and volunteer leaders who devote theif
time to strengthening your Alumni Association. There is a painless way to begin:
Respond positively to the next invitation you receive to a chapter event in your area.
It will be well worth your time.

I feel privileged to serve as president of your Alumni Association this year. | am
working with dedicated board members and W&L personnel who are committed 0
convincing you to become more involved with our alumni programs. Try to attend
one event this year and tell us what you think.

Mason T. New ’62
President, WEL Alumni Assoctation

-_

Letters

Todd Smith’s Legacy

My thanks for the follow-through on
the Todd Smith story (“The Colon-
nade,” Summer). It was with great sad-
ness that I read of Todd’s death three
years ago. | can’t say I knew him well;
we worked together on The Ring-tum Phi
briefly during my freshman year (1982)
before | transferred. ‘Todd's dedication,
however, left an undeniable impression.

I’m relieved to know ‘Todd’s murder
will not go unpunished. Now let’s hope
jailors follow through on the sentence

and enforce it in full.

Grant Rampy ’85

Nashville, Tenn.

Zollmanology

I always look forward to receiving my
WEL Alumni Magazine to catch up on the
latest news from my a@/ma mater, but it’s
been a long time since I enjoyed an arti-
cle as much as “The Dirt on Zollmans”
(Summer).

I had the good fortune to reside for
two years at the cabin across the road
from the pavilion. This residence was
owned by Ralph Zollman and rented by
him to favored students. Not only did
this give me and my roommates a base
to observe—and occassionally partici-
pate in—the revelry that occurred there,
it also afford us a retreat where we could
escape from the pressures of the campus
and gather to discuss scholarly matters
in a casual setting, Sometimes Mr.
Zollman himself would drop in unex-
pectedly to see what was up.

The joy of living at Zollmans was to
be able to slip over to Buffalo Creek for
half an hour of fly-fishing before class,
°F to spend a late fall afternoon in pur-
Suit of a dove or whatever unfortunate
fowl with wings happened by.

Evan Atkins captured perfectly the
flavor of a W&L institution that holds a
Place in my memory close to the

Colonnade or Liberty Hall. I applaude
her and the magazine for venturing off
campus to feature this delightful aspect
of student life. It makes me look for-
ward that much more to my reunion
next spring. See you at Zollmans!

Ted Vaden ’69
Raleigh, N.C.

The nostalgia-inducing article on
Zollmans appealed to the universal
memory of W&L. Our fondness for our
University is intertwined with memories
of those special places that made each of
our experiences there complete. Frank-
ly, it is these places that we think of
when we reflect on our college experi-
ence, rather than the hours in the class-
room or library. It is these places which
remain cemented in our memories.

Which brings me to the reason I am
writing. On the inside cover is a photo of
a bunch of students swimming near the
rope swing at Bean’s Bottom. The cap-
tion, however, reads: “Coolin’ off in
Buffalo Creek is a warm-weather ritual
for Washington and Lee students mak-
ing a trip to Zollmans.”

Buffalo Creek? How could anyone get
the Maury River out at Bean’s confused
with Buffalo Creek? Perhaps they were
so focused on finding supporting materi-
al for the Zollmans article that their bias
interfered with their memories. Perhaps
they never made it to Bean’s during
their four-year experience at W&L!

But for those of us who did, you can’t
fool us. Our memories aren’t blurred or
biased—at least not those away from
Zollmans—and we'll defend ’em to the
end.

Jennifer Donaldson °92
Williamsburg, Va.

University photographer W. Patrick
Hinely ’73 replies: | have absolutely no
doubt that I made the photograph to
which Donaldson refers at Zollmans, on
May 15 last, during festivities surround-
ing the first Buffalo Creek Music Fes-
tival. Anyone still in doubt about the
photo’s location might consider this: If it
had been made at Bean’s Bottom, then
the water would be flowing upstream.

Two Thumbs Up

‘The suggestion of Richard E. Kramer
69 that partisans of the Washington and
Lee Spectator may feel sympathetic
embarrassment at its occasional techni-
cal errors (“Spectator Sport,” Summer) is
the only element of his letter with
which I can agree.

Kramer is pleased to find fault with
the literary talent on display in the
Spectator, suggesting that it compares
poorly to that of the W&L student body
as a whole. If he has evidence to support
this interesting charge, I think we
should be told. Until then, we can
assume that in both their skills and their
faults the “Spectistas” are worthy of
their peers.

And what peers! If class standing,
SAT scores, and other accomplishments
count for anything, today’s students are
among the most promising ever to have
been found at W&L. In these respects
at least, they surpass the standards that
prevailed in my day—and that of
Kramer, for that matter. If their writing
is flawed nevertheless, can it really be
the fault of these bright and capable stu-
dents? At the risk of seeming rude, may
one not ask whether any blame rests
with teachers of English, of whom
Kramer is one?

I see that Kramer’s class and my own
are separated by 10 years. Perhaps in
another decade I too shall have lost all
memory of the indulgence that prevails
in collegiate journalism. I too might
then expect the Spectator to be graceful-
ly written and impeccably edited. I
should expect its youthful idealism and
high spirits to complement, and never to
overwhelm, sound judgment and good
taste. I should expect subsidies to pro-
vide a payroll for staff and do away with
the need to sell advertising. In short, I
should expect a sleek, professional prod-
uct, not unlike the A/umni Magazine and
altogether unrecognizable as student
journalism.

Let’s not deceive ourselves that this
debate is about journalism. It is about
intolerance. While grandly conceding
the Spectator’s right to publish, Kramer
shills for a University administration
that is no longer amused by student crit-

icism, and for certain faculty members
who have systematically sought to crip-
ple the Spectator’s ability to publish.

For about three years, I have been a
subscriber and supporter of the
Spectator. | have promoted it among
alumni sympathetic to its point of view.
Last spring, I was flattered when the
Spectator published a letter from me. I
have met and talked with two of its edi-
tors. | admire them and their staff, and
regret that in my own day I lacked the
initiative and courage they display.
Perhaps they fail to appreciate the risk
they take in confronting entrenched
power. Perhaps they don’t, but ask
themselves, “If not now, when?” In
time they too may learn prudence and
circumspection—virtues of middle age,
so different from the virtues of youth.

I hope not. I salute them.

Robert B. Ramirez °79

New Orleans

I noted with interest that the A/umni
Magazine printed a letter critical of the
Washington and Lee Spectator in its
Summer issue. It is surprising to me that
the A/umni Magazine has not mentioned
the Spectator before now considering the
Spectator has played such an integral role
in the campus community.

As I turned to the Class Notes sec-
tion of your last issue, I also noted with
interest that Richard Kramer (the author

 

 

 

of the aforementioned letter) has writ-
ten articles for 7he Village Voice. | find it
hard to believe that if the Spectator writ-
ers were as poor as Kramer suggests that
the Spectator would be so popular with
the students and alumni.

I am sure that the Spectator staff is
happy to receive Kramer’s advice; how-
ever, perhaps he will find more sympa-
thetic readers among the Vi//age Voice
subscribers.

Marc Short °92

Arlington, Va.

Former senior editor Short ts a member

of the Spectator’s Alumni Advisory Board.

Leyburn’s View

Like many alumni who studied
under James Graham Leyburn over his
quarter-century of service to Washing-
ton and Lee, I enjoyed an ongoing cor-
respondence with him up until his pass-
ing last April. I thought that others
might enjoy the following letter from
Leyburn, written in December 1991, in
response to my asking his opinion on
Alexander the Great—whether or not he
considered him a hero.

“What exactly is a hero?” Leyburn
wrote. “I think one has to make a sub-
jective definition of the term. For me, a
hero is someone I regard as truly

Mea culpa.

A list of W&L alumni presidents
of the American Bar Association
(“W&L Law,” Summer) listed six
members but omitted a seventh:
Rosser L. Malone ’32L. In addition
to being ABA president in the
1958-59 legal year, Malone was
general counsel for General
Motors and rector and trustee of
Washington and Lee, and a room
in Lewis Hall is dedicated to
Malone’s memory. (Thanks to O.B.
McEwan ’40L, B.B. Armstrong ’42L,
Gray Castle ’53, ’55L, and Norman
C. Roettger ’58L for writing.)

  

admirable, a person I can look UP to
with almost no qualification, In those
terms, Alexander is not a hero for me. In
the first place, I dislike warfare and its
inevitable killing and desolation; and ed
I’m not inclined to think of military yj.
tors as heroes. In the second place, |
don’t see how anyone could read about
Alexander’s cruelty, vanity, and Personal
excesses as qualities of a hero.

“By contrast, | don’t see how anyone
could deny that Alexander was a genius.
What he accomplished during his brief
span of life changed the whole history of
the world. [A New Yorker review] notes
his remarkable successes, his almost
miraculous and victorious strategies, his
skill in long marches and in control of
his men. I have no doubt that he
deserves his appellation as ‘the Great,’ ]
say again, the world—our world—is dif-
ferent because of what he did.

“Having made that distinction
between a hero and genius, I now add
that I am grateful to him for one of his
achievements. You certainly know how
greatly | admire the Greeks and Greek
culture. Alexander, by his remarkable
conquests and his dream of One World,
made possible the spread of Greek cul-
ture through the major part of the west-
ern world, all the way from Greece
through Asia Minor, the Near East to
Egypt and beyond, Mesopotamia, and
Persia. In short, Alexander made possi-
ble—actual—the whole Hellenistic Age,
and thus the spread of the beautiful
Greek language, the knowledge of
Greek literature and art and philosophy,
the preservation for future generations
of the works of Greek tragedians and
philosophers and authors and artists (as
in the Museum and Library at Alex-
andria). What would our world be with-
out that heritage—which, incidentally,
helped shape both Christianity and
Islam?

“All this may not be a real answer ©
your question, but it tells you at least
that Alexander is not one of my heroes,
but that I’m grateful that he lived.”

Michael C. Barr ’69

Somerset, NJ.

Class Act

This year I was lucky enough to
attend “Ihe Heroic Age of Greece.”
The Alumni College was a first-class
seminar on some very sophisticated top-
‘cs. It was also a unique opportunity to
meet people from many W&L classes.

To be honest, if | had not been loaf-
ing around in Pennsylvania in the final
week before starting a new job, I would
not have gone to the trouble to attend.
My perspective has changed: The
Alumni College is a worthwhile respite
from the daily grind, even for people
with limited vacation time and barely
positive cash flow.

I am writing to encourage other
newly minted W&L graduates to con-
sider the Alumni College. Many of the
participants are retired, and they will
warmly receive newcomers. Take the
plunge, everyone. It’s refreshing.

Forrest Cannon ’88
New York

Closing Argument

The Alumni Magazine devoted
approximately two full columns of its
letters section in the Spring issue to
debate about W&L’s gay and lesbian
alumni community. In the Summer
issue, an editor’s note stated that the
magazine had allowed argument on both
sides of the issue and now considered it
closed without prejudice.

The excessive space allocated to the
rhetoric of the Rock and Gilmore letters
(Spring), contrasted with Alan Weber’s
plea for intolerance (“An Alternative,”
Winter 1992), suggests a bias, however
subtle. How can Washington and Lee
possibly expect financial and moral sup-
port from heretofore conscientious and
loyal alumni when it does not even
allow them a forum for a proper
response to such accusations?

Lee Bivins ’69
Washington, D.G.

Eagle Scout

I was intrigued by the letter from
George “Buddy” Eagle concerning a
tuxedo purchased from Earl Levitt in
1951 (“Timeless Tux,” Spring). Buddy’s
letter reflects a thinly disguised effort at
extreme braggadocio. Clearly, he was
not interested in conveying the fact that
Earl’s tuxedo is still serviceable. He
merely wanted 99.9 percent of the rest
of us to envy the fact (or believe the lie)
that Buddy could still get into that tux.

Buddy, I salute you—wot/—and the
horse you rode in on.

Patrick D. Sullivan °56, ’58L
Indianapolis

One Last Tail

I would like to acquaint or refresh the
readership with one final famous furry
General (“Big Dogs on Campus,”
Spring). Eric was a tri-colored collie and
BDOC during “Fast” Eddie Allen’s law
school years and also attended W&L in
an undergraduate capacity. Eric’s real
claim to fame was when he ran for presi-
dent of the 1968 law class and lost by
only one vote! He appeared to take the
loss of elected office in his stride and
continued his daily habit of hanging
around with another familiar pooch of
the era, Lunch Meat (so named because
he looked like a sausage).

After graduation, Eric elected to
retire to Bowling Green, Va., rather than
practice law with Fast Eddie in New
York, which allowed Eric to remain a
Virginia gentleman to the end.

Robert E. Duvall ’68L
Arlington, Va.

The Alumni Magazine of Washington
and Lee welcomes /etters. Address corre-
spondence to: University Editor, Washington
and Lee University, Publications Office, Hill
House, Lexington, VA 24450. All letters
should include the author’s name, address,
and daytime phone number. Letters selected
for publication may be edited for length, con-
tent, and style.

VOLUME 68, NUMBER 3
FALL 1993

Brian D. Shaw, Executive Editor

Dick Anderson, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

W. Patrick Hinely ‘73, Photographer
Evan Atkins, Contributing Editor
William Cocke ‘82, Contributing Editor
Jerilyn Ferren ‘93, Class Notes Editor
Brian Logue, Sports Editor

Karlic & Linthicum, Design

COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY BOARD

John Cleghorn °84

David M. Clinger °55
William H. Fishback Jr. °56
Farris P. Hotchkiss °58
Robert S. Keefe *68
Thomas V. Litzenburg ’57
David Lotts ’74

Andrew H. McCutcheon °48
Robert Mottley °64
Elizabeth Obenshain
Howard Packett ’58

Frank A. Parsons °54

Sarah K. Wiant ’78L
Robert Wittpenn 82

Published quarterly by Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington
and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA
24450. Third-class postage paid at
Lynchburg, VA 24502. Signed articles
reflect the views of their authors and not
necessarily those of the editorial board or
the University.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
DIRECTORY

Switchboard (703) 463-8400
Publications Office (703) 463-8956
Alumni Office (703) 463-8464
Development Office (703) 463-8410
News Office (703) 463-8460

Sports Info. Office (703) 463-8676
W&L Sports Hotline (703) 463-8998

 

| —
ae oe

Think back, if you will, to your first days of college—particularly if that College
was Washington and Lee. Remember the first friends you made? The first Professors
you had? Your first rush party—or first mud slide?

Today’s W&L students aren’t that different—a little smarter, maybe, if the num-
bers are any indication. Students in the newly enrolled
Class of 1997 represent 41 states and the District of
Columbia as well as four foreign countries and Were
selected from an applicant pool of 3,318. The 425
freshmen enrolled—254 men and 171 women—ayer-
aged in the top 10 percent of their high schools. There
are 45 children of alumni—24 men and 21 women (66
percent of children of alumni were accepted this year,
versus 33 percent of general applicants). Their SAT

ae. 4

: ‘ye
oa 7 scores averaged 598 (Verbal) and 646 (Math). Sixty-
; | eee at / | fs | eight percent graduated from public schools, while 32
. "all iy e mi = pig a percent attended private schools.
| ie NN fa if Ss The class includes 32 valedictorians and salutatorj-
Ya ye mae! 4) /e ies ans, 29 National Merit Scholars and Finalists, 53 sty-

dent body or class presidents, 141 team captains, and
Ae: ae | , 88 presidents of major student organizations. It is a
vy ia : vi S a z typically impressive W&L group.

= sresraes en :: oS “This class reflects the traditional values that have
always guided our selection process,” says William M.
Hartog III, dean of admissions and financial aid for
Ihe freshman class as a whole
demonstrates outstanding academic achievement and

“ur

Washington and Lee.

superb personal qualities.”

Dennis Manning, who begins his third year as
dean of freshmen, is equally impressed with the Class
of °97. “Their adjustment in these first weeks seems
unusually fine and happy. Their overwhelming
response to an optional community service project dur-
ing orientation says something about this class.”

Indeed, members of the class seem extremely
happy to be at W&L. We talked with a few of them—
nine in all—and the conversations we had reveal an
exceptionally bright, well-rounded, happy group.

Catherine Avant of Mobile, Ala., fell in love with W&L as a junior when she visited
campus on a school-sponsored tour of about 20 colleges and universities. “I called

 

New Faces (front row, |-r): Scott Ayers,
Chris Dalton, and Steven Fanning; (middle

. ° ”
row) Kathleen Quirk, Manmeet Singh, Ned my parents the night we stayed here and told them this was where I wanted to be,

recalls Catherine, who was class secretary at St. Paul’s School as well as as a membef
of the Honor Society and Sierra Club. Active in her church, she also volunteered at 4
shelter for battered mothers and their children and plans to major in psychology at
W&L.

A drama participant in high school, Catherine is taking “Total Theatre” (0F
Theatre 139, nicknamed “Hammers and Nails”) to fulfill her fine arts requirement
Two weeks into the semester, she found W&L to be everything that she expected—
including, yes, her first mud slide (behind the Kappa Alpha house).

On his first trip from Spokane, Wash., to visit W&L, Scott Ayers encountered the
“trip from hell”—missed flights, lost luggage, and an overnight in Lynchburg. “This
school better be worth it,” he thought—and fortunately, it was. After an “incredible

Gaines, and Elizabeth Fritze: (back row)

Catherine Avant and Erin Harvison.

>

_—

experience” on campus, he went home
and told his father, “This me definitely
where I was going to school.

Scott, a Robert E. Lee Scholar and a
National Merit Scholar, was class vale-
dictorian at Mead High School in
Spokane and a 6’6” shooting guard on
the varsity basketball team. Basketball
runs in the family: Scott’s father is a
teacher and J.V. coach at his high school,
and his brother is on a hoops scholarship
at Fordham University. “Lexington is a
much nicer place to spend four years
than the Bronx,” says Scott, who’s pon-
dering a history/economics major.
“W&L has a great balance of social and
academic life,” he adds. “Everybody
here gets along so well.”

With two uncles and three cousins
who have attended the University, CAs
Dalton is no stranger to W&L. He grew
up in San Antonio, Texas, but his family
recently moved to Washington, D.C.,
when his father was appointed Secretary
of the Navy. Chris has done a lot of trav-
elling himself, deferring his acceptance
for a year to study in England on an
English Speaking Union scholarship. He
spent a year at Denstone College in
Staffordshire where he studied mostly
history and English, played rugby, and
even had a part in The Merchant of Venice.

Chris was a dean’s list student at The
Asheville (N.C.) School, a wrestler, and
captain of the football team. He is now a
cornerback on the W&L football squad
and when the Generals hosted Davidson
for Homecoming on Oct. 9, Chris found
himself squaring off against his brother,
who is captain of the Davidson team.

When Elizabeth Fritze visited W&L
last March during an open house for
scholarship candidates, she found her-
self snowed in during the Blizzard of the
Century. “I was happy to stay the extra
days,” she says. A National Merit
Scholar and a Gaines Scholar, Elizabeth
Was valedictorian of Eagle Valley High
School in Kagle, Colorado—a town so
small it makes Lexington seem like a
metropolis by comparison.

In high school, Elizabeth played the
Saxophone, was secretary/treasurer of
the student body, and played volleyball
and basketball. Her father encouraged
her to look at W&L. having read about

 

More than 50 freshmen pitched in to clean up the Centerville district of Lexington in an APO-
sponsored project Sept. 7. From left, Alvin Townley, Susan Hall, dorm counselor Michael
Witsil ’95, Lenise Graber, and Elizabeth Cox help out resident Vaden Thompson.

the school in U.S. News © World Report.
“When I came to visit the campus I
knew right away that this was the
place,” she recalls. “It was just a feeling
I had.” It must have been a good feel-
ing, too, for she chose W&L over all
nine schools to which she had been
accepted—including Harvard, Rice, and
Duke. “Everyone here is so friendly,”
she adds. “We can already see ourselves
crying at graduation.”

Steven Fanning got a jump start on
freshman life when he arrived early at
Washington and Lee for football prac-
tice. “I got used to the campus and the
town before all the others got here,” he
says. Steven grew up on a ranch in
Grantville, Ga., and attended Woodward
Academy in Atlanta where he played
football, ran track, served as student
body president, among his many accom-
plishments. He wants to be a corporate
lawyer, so he’s planning to major in
management, then go to law school.

Steven was in the midst of fraternity
rush when we caught up with him. “I
like the aspect of a strong fraternity sys-
tem,” he says. “Everyone is out to make
friends. It’s not cliquish; it’s like one big
family.” Steven made four or five trips
to W&L before applying and was
accepted on the Early Decision plan.

Even though he’s lived in Phoenix,
Ariz., all his life, coming to W&L this
fall was like “coming home in a way” for
Ned Gaines. Ned is the great-grandson of
Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of

Washington and Lee from 1930 to 1959,
and made many trips to Lexington visit-
ing relatives growing up.

Ned played football at Brophy
College Prep, a Jesuit private school in
Phoenix, and loves to hunt and fish.
‘The many outdoor activities here cer-
tainly appeal to him. He looked at a lot
of colleges, but W&L was on the top of
his list. “I’m having a great time,” says
Ned, who is something of a history buff
and may pursue that as his major. “It’s
even better than I thought it would be.”

Erin Harrison of Dallas probably
would not have even applied to W&L,
she says, if her father hadn’t insisted
that she do so. But when she came up to
visit W&L, she fell in love with it. “I
realized when I got here that a small
school was the way to go—you get the
attention you need.”

Erin is one of two Highland Park
High School graduates to attend W&L
this year. Since arriving, Erin has found
W&L meets all her expectations. “I love
it here and I’m having a great time. You
meet people on Friday and Saturday
nights, and then you see them again
during the week. That wouldn’t happen
at a big school.” But while the social life
is fun, she quickly adds, “everybody
here studies a lot. "I’ve gotten to know
that library really well.”

Like many incoming students,
Kathleen Quirk first heard about W&L
from older high school friends who had
come here. Then there was the family

A Chip Off the Old George

When freshman Ryan K. McWilliams got his first close-up look at the original
wooden statue of Old George, he was duly impressed with his great-great-great-great-
grandfather’s carpentry skills—even if he wasn’t so sure about his sense of proportion.

Ryan is a direct descendant of Mathew S. Kahle, the town cabinetmaker whose
only work of art was the large wooden statue of George Washington, in a toga, which
stood perched on top of Wash-
ington Hall from 1844 until 1990
when it was removed, and re-
stored, for safekeeping. (A bronze
replica—impervious to birds,
insects, and other predators—has
replaced it.)

Ryan says when he and his
family saw the restored statue last
year in the library, “We laughed
at the size of the head, but we
were told that he did it intention-
ally.” (Knowing the statue would
be viewed from far below, Kahle
purposely scaled Old George’s
head larger than normal.)

Ryan was already familiar with
Kahle’s workmanship. His fami-
ly’s home in Ridgewood, N.J., is
partially furnished with his pieces
of furniture, handed down from
generations, including a grandfa-

ther clock and two chairs. “They

 

have survived in better condition
than the statue,” says Ryan. (But
All in the Family: Ryan Kahle McWilliams °97 meets
the guy that made his ancestor famous.

then, those pieces haven’t been
exposed to the abuse that Old
George had been.)

The youngest of three chil-
dren, Ryan wanted to attend a small, competitive Southern school where he could
play lacrosse. He was captain of the Ridgewood High School team that had been top-
ranked in the state. Ryan was also vice president of his class and sports editor of the
yearbook. He applied, and was accepted to W&L, early decision. He is now in fall
practice, as a midfielder, with the W&L lacrosse team, and Ryan plans to play lacrosse
and study science over the next four years. (Asked, naturally, if he had any interest in
woodworking, Ryan said those talents had “skipped” him and his father, but that his
older brother was a carpenter with his own business in Ridgewood.)

His room in Graham-Lees faces the back of the Lee House, where President and
Mrs. Wilson live. In an address to the freshmen during orientation, President Wilson
commented to the freshmen, “If you play your music loud, make it classical.” Ryan
says he has accommodated Wilson by playing his classical CDs on high—“But I play

the others just as loud, too.”

college tour, where W&L was the fj
school she visited. Kathleen came back

last winter for a weekend and Stayed

with students, and “My parents knew |
had decided when I got off the plane ip
my new W&L sweatshirt,” she says,
Kathleen is a Gaines Scholar, Class of
‘37 Scholar, and a National Merit semj_
finalist. A soccer player and National
Honor Society member as a student at

 

=

Villa Duchesne/Oak Hill School in Se3

Louis, she received the Spirit and |

Service and Scholar-Athlete awards

Between the classes (“The professors _

are neat”) and the get-togethers, W&q_
has been a whirlwind of activity since
she arrived. Coming from St. Louis,
Kathleen is also enamored by the beau-
ty of the area. “You can walk around
Lexington and go exploring, and on the
higher streets, you can look out and see
the mountains,” she says. “I love it.”

Manmeet Singh had never seen the
W&L campus before arriving in Sep-
tember after a long flight from Geneva
to Washington, D.C., and a Greyhound
bus ride, with 85 kilos of baggage, from
D.C. to Lexington. A native of Sydney,
Australia, Manmeet is the son of a diplo-
mat living in Geneva, Switzerland, and
as such, has lived all over the world.
Having studied for the last three years
at the International School of Geneva
under the rigorous International Bacca-
laureate program, he comes to W&L
with 28 credits and hopes of completing
his education in three years.

Fluent in English, French, and vari-
ous Indian languages, he was intef-
viewed by a W&L admissions recruiter
who traveled to Geneva. “W&L seems
so much like a university ought to be,”
he says, adding, “I like the red brick
buildings.” Anxious to experience all
that college life has to offer, he’s most
impressed with W&L’s Honor System
and the 24-hour accessibility of the
library and computers, and finds fratef
nity rush to be a completely new experi-
ence. “I would recommend W&L (0
any international student,” says
Manmeet. “But I would tell them ©
read up on football and baseball before
they came!”—By Evan Atkins

 

U.S. News: Good News

In U.S. News © World Report's 1994
“America’s Best Colleges,”
and Lee ranks 20th among
» 25 national liberal arts

ranking of
Washington
the nation $s to} , 7
colleges. W&L has been listed in the
top 25 in each of the seven yoats since
the U.S. News survey began. For the last
rwo years W&L was ranked 22nd.

In individual categories, W&L is now
the seventh most selective institution in
the country, but ranks only 25th among
academic reputation. In the category of
financial resources, W&L ranks a trou-
bling 48th among 140 national liberal
arts colleges. That number is.a direct
reflection of the University’s endow-
ment, which, of course, is the single
largest component of the Campaign for
Washington and Lee.

In a separate U.S. News computation
of “America’s Best College Values,”
W&L retained its best buy rank among
the top 20 national liberal arts schools.

The 1,371 four-year schools included
in the study were ranked according to a
system that combined statistical data
with the results of an exclusive U.S.
News survey of academic reputations
among 2,655 college presidents, deans,
and admissions directors, resulting in a
record 65 percent response rate. The
schools were divided into categories
using guidelines established by the
Carnegie Foundation for the Advance-
ment of ‘leaching.

The Campaign for Washington and Lee
has created 68 new scholarships and five
new professorships as it passes the two-
thirds milestone toward $127 million.

 

 

 

Goal:
$127, 0,000

Thru Oct. 15:
$87,000,000

Washington and Lee’s undergraduate faculty has 22 new faces this

 

Kront row

fall, including

(/-r): Douglas Glick, assistant professor, sociology; Byron McCane, assistant professor, English;

Paul Brantley, assistant professor, music: Linda Hooks. assistant professor

onomics: Debbie

Owens, Jessie Ball duPont Visiting Scholar and ABD Scholar, journalism; and A.J. Holliday,

visiting assistant professor, economics and management. Back row: Michael Evans, Rupert

and Lillian Radford professor of mathematics and department head; Vaughan Stanley, assts-

tant professor, Leyburn Library; Peter Hoogenboom, lecturer, music; Clifford Larsen, assistant

professor, law; George Bent, assistant professor, art; Erich Uffelman, assistant professor, chem

istry; Yurt Dubinin, professor, history and politics; Brandon Dixon, as

istant professor, com

puter science; Philip Gibbs,visiting assistant professor, management; Laurence hk. Hurd, biolog)

department head. Not pictured are Edward Adams, asststant professor
Collins, assistant professor, psychology; Terri Dado, assistant profes
Laura Fitzgerald, assistant professor, law; Veronica Hubert-Matthews, a

_ English; James
, physical education;

istant professor,

romance languages; and Albert Murray, duPont Visiting Scholar, English.

Coeducation Revisited

A committee composed of Washing-
ton and Lee faculty and students will
soon begin to evaluate the first eight
years of coeducation at the University.
Beginning this fall, the ninth year of
coeducation at W&L, the committee
will take stock of the progress made
since the first class of women came to
the University in 1985, and outline sug-
gestions for the future.

“We are at the beginning of the third
student generation since coeducation at
W&L,” says John Elrod, vice president
for academic affairs and dean of the
College. “All institutions which have
moved to coeducation in the past two or
three decades have paused to take their
own pulse, examine the progress made,
and look to the future.”

In 1984, just prior to the first class of
women at W&L, a coeducation transi-
tion steering committee was formed.
One of its recommendations was to reex-
amine the issue in a timely fashion.
Accordingly, the new committee will
study changes in academic programs and
standards (such as admissions, retention
and graduation statistics, and curricular
choice), changes in student-faculty rela-
tionships, and the climate in the class-
room and in the University’s academic
exchanges.

The coeducation committee will be
co-chaired by Pamela H. Simpson,
Ernest Williams II professor of art histo-
ry, and Robert A. Strong, William Lyne
Wilson professor of political economy,
and will make public its findings and
recommendations by the end of the cur-
rent academic year.

10

 

 

 

 

When alligators fly, money
falls from the sky. But
Ernie Williams (above, left)
and his classmates, the
"38er Alligators, are not
ones to repeat themselves
—they did the airborne
‘gator bit, you may recall,
at their 50th reunion in
1988—so for their 55th
reunion, during Homecom-
ing activities in October,
these merry pranksters
had to come up with some-
thing new. First, they
paraded a llama (or rather,
“a 38er Alligator in a Llama
Suit”) down Main Street.
But no one was looking for
a skydiver to drop down
on to Wilson Field during
halftime festivities at the
W&L-Davidson football
game, much less present
Williams with a check for
$25,000—the first-ever
55th reunion gift. The good
fortune almost sent W&L
president John Wilson
(holding the check, at
right) airborne himself.

 

 

 

 

 

a
— ee eae, Ler or renee & nn Soe ee
eS ae a

3 ‘
raat ms —
—
os
—

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lee Chapel director Robert C. Peniston talks
irians Perkins and deMaria.

Lee: The Movie

Filmmaker Drew Perkins 84 illumi-
nates a “less conventional angle” of
Robert E. Lee in a documentary titled
Lee: Beyond the Battles, which is currently
in production for eventual broadcast on
public television.

“While contemporary media continue
to portray Lee as a military man, we
believe there is more to the Lee leg-
end,” says Perkins, president of Rubi-
con Productions, which is producing the
$750,000 documentary in association
with Houston PBS affiliate KUHT-TY.

Lee: Beyond the Battles will trace Lee’s
life from his ancestral home at Stratford
Hall, Va., to Arlington; Richmond; West
Point; New York; St. Louis; San Anto-
nio; and finally, Lexington. The film
will feature commentary and interviews
from renowned U.S. historians, while
contemporary poets, politicians, and
educators will discuss the impact of
Lee’s legacy on American society.

Co-producer Robert de Maria, profes-
sor of journalism and mass communica
tions at W&L, adds: “Popular culture is
highly conversant with Lee the general.
We want to see Lee as a product of his
time. Society should see R.E. Lee in the
light of his family. Few people are awafe
that Lee was a devoted son, husband,
and father.

“Lee’s legacy cannot be complete
without seeing this side of the man.”

—

A Brief History of the Annual Fund (Has It Really Been 60 Years?)

When Harry K. (Cy) Young closed
ks on Washington and Lee’s first

the boo
Alumni! Fund in 1933, the legendary
athlete rurned administrator raised

$3,750 for the University. Even then,
the dollars provided unrestricted sup-

ort for W&L’s ongoing operations—or,
as Annual Fund director Peter Cronin
84 puts it, “real dollars going for real
things—faculty salaries, library acquisi-
tions, lab expenses, academic program-
ming, speakers—all the things that are
part of a student’s life at W&L.”

To say that the Annual Fund has
grown in the 60 years since is an under-
statement. The largest source of unre-
stricted income for the educational and
general budget after tuition, the Annual
Fund generated $2.4 million for the cur-
rent year’s budget, or the equivalent of
$55 million in additional endowment.

As a volunteer-based organization,
the Annua! Fund is only as good as its
class agents. “The folks who are suc-
cessful are the ones who are imagina-
tive,” says Cronin. (Last year, for exam-
ple, Trip Brower ’82 sent habitual non-
givers each $1, as did Gray Castle °53,
55L, and Parker Smith ’53.) They are
on their own, Cronin says, to do their
work, produce their own letters. “It’s a
tribute to our system that there aren’t
many peer institutions that are as volun-
teer-driven as W&L.”

In exchange for an expense-paid trip
to Lexington each year (and the occa-
sional tie, mug, coaster, and ashtray), the
100-plus class agents (from the oldest,
Herb Jahncke °30, to 1993 graduates
Annie Salisbury and Josh Levinson)
recruited by the University write letters,
make phone calls, and make other solici-
tations in an effort to “encourage, plead,
cajole their classmates to support the
University,” says Cronin, director of the
Annual Fund since 1991.

For the first four decades of its life,
the Annual Fund was the Alumni Fund,
and until 1968, it was run out of the
Alumni Office. What was once “kind of
an afterthought,” in the words of Carter

McNeese. js now the core of W&L’s
fundraising efforts.

eg a

B ete ea . -

va se a : - | Re RE ae: +6

AF
a Fane, may,
” 4 a ye FY,

ES,

 

Class Agents Weekend at WEL

Cronin ’84; chairman Alan Tomlin ’69; Charlie Longacre ’.

o itr en RO Oa Se <e :

i
ra ‘
~~. A ~~...

i
e .
=

in September—First row (l-r): Annual Fund director Peter

33: David Weaver ’60; John Atkins

87; Jay West ’93; Van Pate ’71; Kirk Ludwig ’86L; Peter Keefe ’78; Boyd Leyburn '52; Jay
Cook °44; Garth Schulz ’88; Bob Cross ’54; Parker Smith ’53; and Annual Fund assoctate
Maureen Levey ’93. Second row: Bill Russell ’57; Millard Fretland ’83L; Ted McKeldin '59;
Jack Bovay ’79; Drake Leddy ’71; Mike Pace ’84L; Gray Castle ’53, ’55L; Devon McAlister

02: Jack Baber ’66: Peter Straub ’61, ’64L;: and Joe Matthews

‘68. Third row: Andy

McCutcheon °48; Charlie Threadgold ’49; John Falk ’86, ’90L; Wali Bacdayan °92; Teresa
Williams ’93; Jen Noble ’92; Scott Bond ’83; and Wiley Wright °54, ’56L. Fourth row: Tad
Renner ’85; Brad Watkins ’88; Reno Harp °54, ’56L; Walter Godlewski ’93L; Chad Meyer
91; Spencer Patton ’92; Dallas Hagewood ’90; and Elizabeth Cummins '89. Fifth row: Steve
Annand ’72L; Alan Ragan ’89L; Jamie Tucker 92; Stephen White ’91; John Flippen °92; and
Opie Pollard ’54, ’57L. Sixth row: John Cleghorn ’84; Mark Slack ’86; Fray McCormick 89;
Steve Elkins ’74L; Sidney Simmons °80; Read Folline ’92; and Leyburn Mosby ’62, '65L.

What a difference a couple of dec-
ades makes. ‘Io commemorate 60 years
of giving, we present a selective history
of the Annual Fund at W&L.

1956: The Alumni Fund passes the
$100,000 mark for the first time. ‘wo
years later, Cy Young retires.

1959-61: The Fund is suspended for
the duration of W&L’s $3 million
“Vision of Greatness” campaign.

1970: J. Sanford (Sandy) Doughty,
former director of development at Lake
Forest College in Illinois, comes to
W&L as associate director of develop-
ment. The Harvard Business School
graduate brings with him the Williams
College model for an Annual Fund
(“the Rolls Royce of Annual Funds”)

and works with alumni secretary Bill
Washburn ’40 to recruit class agents.

1971: Jim Bierer 40 becomes the first
chairman of the Annual Fund, a position
that he holds for two years.

1972: Carter McNeese joins the
University as assistant director of de-
velopment on the ides of March. The
Alumni Fund becomes the Annual
Fund, and McNeese writes the Class
Agents handbook the following year,
when the Annual Fund “took off,” in
the words of McNeese. Class agents
begin to set their own goals and write
their own letters.

1973: First W&L phonathon for the
Annual Fund is held in New York. ‘That
same year, McNeese buys a bolt of

11

 

The inaugural W@L Tractor Pull was staged on the Colonnade in July (not really; see below).

material for $900 to prevent well-inten-
tioned (but unauthorized) reproduction
of the Trident-laden class agent tie for
sale by clothier Alvin-Dennis.

1979-80: Vhe Annual Fund hits the
$1 million milestone for the first time. It
passes the $2 million mark in 1988-89.

1992-93: The Annual Fund tops
$2.47 million—another record—thanks
to the teamwork of Cronin, Annual Fund
chairman John Moore ’66, ’73L, and of
course, the class agents.

The agents are “sales managers for
their classes,” says McNeese, who had a
speaking part in the film Sommersby
(which, admittedly, has nothing to do
with the Annual Fund). “It’s a matter of
great pride to do well,” adds Doughty,
who is retired and living in Lexington.
“The Annual Fund is only as successful
as the agents who get fired up to do it.”

Green Acre

If the grass seems greener on the
Colonnade this fall, it’s not your imagi-
nation. Approximately one acre of the
lawn of Washington and Lee’s historic
front campus—the area between the
Colonnade and Lee Chapel, two Na-
tional Historic Landmarks—was reno-
vated over the summer under the super-
vision of W&L horticulturist Chris
Wise. “The entire project will make the
front campus look better throughout the
whole year,” according to Wise.

12

In recent years, the grass on the
Colonnade has been overrun with Ber-
muda, or wire, grass as well as weeds.
“Wire grass turns brown in the winter,”
Wise explains, and the front lawn had
turned “unsightly” as a consequence.

The area has thus been reseeded
with Kentucky Bluegrass, but the work
didn’t stop above ground. Aided by a
gift from the Class of 1937, the Univer-
sity sprung for the installation of an
automatic pop-up irrigation system to
maintain the high-quality turf stand.
The newly repaired lawn is not only
subjected to a high degree of foot traffic
but is a “hot area” as well, exposed to
direct sunlight for a large part of the day.

Following commencement exercises
in June, the existing grass was sprayed
and killed. ‘The area was subsequently
disked and tilled in preparation for the
irrigation system, which was installed
late that month, and seeding and straw-
ing, which took place in early July.

The irrigation system was installed
by Childress Irrigation of Huddleston,
Va. All other work was done by W&L’s
Buildings and Grounds crew.

Junkin Screen Donated

A four-panel wooden screen painted
by the late Marion Junkin ’27, founder
and professor emeritus of Washington
and Lee’s department of fine arts, has
been given to W&L by Elizabeth L.

  

Pendergrast of Atlanta in memory of her
uncle (and Junkin’s cousin), George
Junkin Irwin °20. Irwin joined the
University’s faculty in 1925 as an aSSis-
tant professor and retired as an aSSOCiate
professor of romance languages in 1962.
He died in 1965.

The screen, signed by Junkin and
dated 1947, is painted in oil with
Chesapeake Bay scenes on one side and
a woodland scene on the reverse. It jg
currently on display at Washington and
Lee’s Reeves Center.

Faculty Bookshelf

RENNYO: THE SECOND FOUNDER of
SHIN BUDDHISM, by Minor L. Rogers
and Ann T. Rogers (Asian Humanities
Press; paperback, $25; hardcover, $75),

Minor Rogers was a specialist on
Japanese Buddhism and Jessie Bal]
duPont professor of religion at Wash-
ington and Lee when he died in August
1991, having just completed this work
long in progress on Rennyo Shonin
(1415-1499), a key figure in the Hon-
ganji branch of the Pure Land Shin Seet
(Jodo Shinshu), the most widespread
and influential Buddhist movement in
Japanese history.

Ann Rogers is associate professor of
Japanese language and literature at
W&L. The book includes her transla-
tion of Rennyo’s letters, the primary
materials for research on Rennyo.

FRIENDS AND ASSASSINS: Poems by
Heather Ross Miller (University of
Missouri Press; paperback, $9.95; hard-
cover, $16.95).

This collection of poems, the fifth by
W&L’s professor of English, has been
hailed as “full of gritty elegance” in The
New York Times Book Review. “In both
her fiction and her poetry, Heather Ross
Miller writes about women who, as she
put it in her 1990 collection of poems,
Hard Evidence, have ‘got life up to the
elbow,’ ” writes Philip Gambon.

Miller joined the Washington and
Lee faculty in 1992. Her poetry has
appeared in The Chariton Revie®,
Kentucky Poetry Review, The Laurel Revie®,
The New Virginia Review, Shenandoah, and
The Southern Review.

ss

 

 

Early one Saturday morning before class at Woodberry
Forest School, Ted Blain ’74 is dissecting a prank message left
late the night before on his answering machine. The question
is not whodunit. A group of former and current students have
already admitted to the ruse. True to his latest calling, the
English instructor turned mystery author is plotting how he
might turn the tables on
the pranksters and use the
tape to his own advantage.

Despite the success of
his novels Passion Play and
Love Cools, Blain is a
teacher first and a writer
second. Speaking in the
measured cadences of one
used to explicating Shakespeare to sophomores, he explains:
“After Passion Play was published, I was not sure what I want-
ed. It then became very important for me to finish Love Cools,
to see whether it was all a fluke.”

Passion Play, published in 1990 and available in paperback,
is set in the fictional Montpelier School for Boys—any resem-
blance to Woodberry Forest is purely uncanny—where a killer
is murdering off students and faculty. The novel garnered good
reviews (“Blain creates a rich, claustrophobic world,” wrote The
New York Times, “where reputation and even lives might be lost
at a student mixer or a faculty tea”) as well as an Edgar nomi-
nation from the Mystery Writers Association of America.

, With Love Cools (G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1992)—set in a fic-
tional southwest Virginia city named Rockbridge that closely
resembles Blain’s hometown of Roanoke—he deliberately set
®UC CO write an intricate, highly complex mystery—a little too
claborate, by Blain’s own admission. “Some of the fun was lost
with that one,” he says. “It got good reviews, but did not do

Death Becomes Him

With ‘Iwo Mystery Novels to His Credit, ‘led Blain °74
Remains a leacher First, and Writer Second

 

quite as well as the first book. In a way it was fortunate,
because it clarified for me the fact that I’m a teacher first. Now
I can enjoy that.”

But why mysteries? Blain admits that he doesn’t read that
many. And although he does his research, he is not a fanatic
about it like others in the genre. “What I have learned,” he
says, “is that there is a
certain amount of
craftsmanship that goes
into the writing of a
mystery. The author
may play around with
conventions, but he
must always play fair.
And it is very important
to make the story interesting from the beginning, get the read-
er engaged, and then never let up.”

Blain draws most of his inspiration for teaching and writing
from his roots in Virginia, particularly Washington and Lee. His
protagonist in Passion Play is named Boatwright in tribute to

Jim Boatwright, the late editor of Shenandoah and one of his

mentors, and the book is dedicated to “those who taught me.”

“When I’m writing about something it’s because I want to
recapture an emotion I’ve had, relive some experience, or work
out some problem,” he adds. “W&L, Lexington, Roanoke, and
Woodberry are all places where I’ve had important experi-
ences.”

But English teachers love analogies, and Blain can’t help
but add: “It was Washington and Lee that shaped my tastes
and gave me a sense of taste. I arrived at W&L drinking
Southern Comfort and Sprite, and left drinking Scotch and

water.”
—By William Cocke ’82

13

 

Wilson Announces Retirement Plans

W&L President to Step Down in 1995

John D. Wilson, president of Washington and Lee since 1983,
announced in September he will retire in July 1995. Wilson’s
resignation date coincides with the scheduled completion of
the University’s $127 million capital campaign.

14

“I have committed myself to the successful completion of
this important campaign,” Wilson told a meeting of W&L facul-
ty on Sept. 13. “When that milestone is reached I will gratefully
conclude my tenure at this remarkable institution.”

—

Wilson, who will be 64 in the summer of 1995, told the facul-
he has no plans for future employment, but will invest his

Bement years in the study of 16th-century English and Irish

history- —
Wilson said the University’s Board of Trustees will begin a

national search for his successor in January. It is expected that
the search will take 18 months. Wilson said the board will notify
the University community of its plans for the search process
when the search begins.

Wilson was named to the Washington and Lee presidency in
1982, succeeding Robert E.R. Huntley ’50, ’57L. He is the 21st
president of Washington and Lee, and the eighth president of
the institution since Robert E. Lee.

Washington and Lee has grown and flourished under
Wilson’s leadership. Shortly after becoming president he led the
formerly all-male institution through a study of the merits of
coeducation, culminating in 1985 with the admission of women
to the undergraduate program. Since admitting women as
undergraduates, Washington and Lee’s national reputation has
grown, as evidenced by several record-setting years for applica-
tions for admission in the late 1980s and early 1990s.

During his tenure Wilson has overseen the construction of
Gaines Hall, a new student residence hall, the Lenfest Center
for the Performing Arts, the Watson Pavilion, which houses part
of the University’s collection of Chinese porcelain and other
items, new athletic fields, and the recently completed $13 mil-
lion renovation of the University’s 16 fraternity houses.

Wilson has also seen Washington and Lee’s endowment grow
from $60 million to $145 million, while the Annual Fund has
regularly set records for dollars and participation. He organized
the University’s $127 million fund-raising campaign, which had
raised $87 million in gifts and pledges through mid-October. In
the meantime, Wilson will continue to take the campaign, “On
the Shoulders of Giants,” to alumni chapters around the coun-
try. He has spoken at every event to date.

A native of Lapeer, Mich., Wilson received his B.A. degree
from Michigan State University, where he was an academic All
American and a member of that university’s 1952 national cham-
pionship football team. He received his M.A. in English litera-
ture from Oxford University, where he studied as a Rhodes
Scholar, and earned his Ph.D in English literature from Michi-
gan State in 1965.

He served as assistant to the vice president for academic
affairs at Michigan State and was assistant to the president of
the State University of New York before returning to Michigan
State to be associate director, and later director, of the universi-
ty’s Honors College. At Michigan State Wilson also served as
director of undergraduate education, assistant provost, and assis-
tant professor of English.

In 1968, Wilson was elected president of Wells College, a pri-
vate, liberal arts college for women in New York. He served in
that position until 1975, when he became vice president of acad-
€mic affairs and university provost of Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University. He was serving as executive vice
President and university provost at Virginia Tech when he was
Named president of Washington and Lee. @

From the Rector:
Finding a Successor

There is a line in an old Irish ballad which says “Time
brings all things to an end.” So it is with the presidency of
John Wilson at Washington and Lee. On Sept. 13, President
Wilson announced his intention to retire at the end of the
school year in June 1995. These plans had previously been dis-
cussed with the Board of Trustees. The timing coincides with
the completion of the Campaign for Washington and Lee.

John Wilson’s time as our president has been marked by
significant accomplishment. Coeducation was quickly followed
by the fraternity renaissance program, which renewed our com-
mitment to fraternity life and will shape the social side of life
at W&L for the future. At the same time, continued strong
emphasis on student self-government and the Honor System
assure commitment to our sacred traditional values.

The Wilson presidency also strengthened our resolve for fis-
cal integrity at W&L. At a time when many colleges and uni-

| ” versities are suffering
. 1| We

 
 

‘
AA
o .

       
    

Sear

this policy is to be cher-
ished. From an architectur-
al standpoint, the Lenfest
Center for the Performing
Arts, Gaines Hall, the Wat-
son Pavilion for Asian Arts,
the Powell addition to the
Law Library, and the refur-
bished fraternity houses all
stand in permanent testi-
mony to John Wilson’s
leadership. He leaves an
outstanding legacy.

Finding a successor will
not be easy. However, the
task must soon begin. At
the October trustees meet-
ing, I will appoint a board selection committee. Our first task
will be to define the characteristics of the person we are seek-
ing. This will then be turned over to a search committee made
up of faculty, alumni, and student representatives. Their task
will be to identify prospective candidates to be turned over to
a screening committee. Once the list is reduced to a manage-
able size, the selection committee will conduct interviews and
make a recommendation to the board. The process will begin
next spring and conclude in early 1995.

Washington and Lee is a very special place and requires a
special person as its president. The selection of this person is
the most important decision the trustees will make and I can
assure you it is being approached with this fact in mind. I ask
for your support and your prayers.

A. Stevens Miles Jr. °51
Rector

severe financial problems,
}

‘
-

Beale it \ oN

Huntley and Wilson in 1983:

Finding a successor won't be easy.

15

 

Slizabeth Otey Watson's greatest gift —
a pavilion for Taiaw ants at (D ae

. Od oo
began with a ma vuage made in Ching

—a Torre oe

fmm

 

—

Elizabeth Otey was a bright
young woman with an eye for
uty when she set sail for
Hong Kong in 1946 to marry
William C. Watson 29, an ad-
ministrative official with the
Standard Oil Co.’s Far East
operations. When the couple
returned from their honey-
moon to an apartment on the
island of Shameen in Canton,
China, Standard Oil offered to

bea

furnish the place for the
Watsons, but other than a bed
and a refrigerator, Elizabeth
refused the generous offer.
She preferred instead to fur-
nish the apartment herself
with native art, and Standard
Oil anted up the money with
which the Watsons sought out
pieces of Oriental art to adorn
their new home.

Following her initial buy-
ing experience in which she
paid full price for a ceramic
lamp from a dealer’s shop in
Canton, Elizabeth became a
master of bartering—so hard,
in fact, that her husband be-
came embarrassed to go into
the shops with her. (One deal-
er told William, “You must
make her pay more!”) She
became known on the island
as the local art expert—even
though she had not studied
Oriental art as part of her cur-
riculum at Radcliffe College.

While William was both
pleased and proud of the
results of his wife’s collecting,
the two disagreed on one
important point: While Eliza-
beth would want to sell pieces

From the ' avilion, clock-

wise from (Jing stoneware
hat Stand
f 18th - 07

gilt-de, OTG

ntury. 2.) Qing
blue and white

with Jiaging

mark. 3; 1e and white

Ov) : ; A ;
~wotd ja: 35. 4.) Qing

(18 | ; j é
[Sth-c. ) > chine figure of

Guanyin hed ( Jing

/ , a
l8th-c.) hemum dish.

Gifts off, ‘Son. (3) Mickey,

(4) Mi B :

7(5) Wilson.

of lesser quality to buy better
ones, William would never let
her sell anything because he
thought everything was “won-
derful.” Yet they never really
thought of their objects as
constituting a formal collec-
tion because, Elizabeth says,
they were just beautiful things
they enjoyed having.

‘The Watsons’ love for the
Orient and its arts never

faded, and they earnestly
wanted to spread that love in
their home country.

The Watson Pavilion for
Asian Arts at Washington and
Lee, which was created by a
gift of Elizabeth Watson, is a
logical extension of the world-
renowned Reeves Center for
Research and Exhibition of
Porcelain and Paintings, and
the culmination of a dream
that began when Mrs. Watson
donated her collection of
Asian fine and decorative arts
to the University in memory
of her husband, who died in
1979, and for use in support of
East Asian studies. The col-
lection spans a wide range of
media, from porcelain, paint-
ings, and furniture to jade,
clothings, and jewelry—cul-
tural artifacts that bear witness

to the compelling lives that
the Watsons led, both as col-
lectors of the fine and decora-
tive arts and as participants in
a unique cultural community.
Elizabeth Otey was born in
Lynchburg, Va., in 1911. Her
mother and grandmother were

fervent proponents” of

women’s suffrage, and were
founding members of the
League of Women Voters. In

 

fact, Elizabeth’s mother,
Elizabeth Lewis Otey, be-
came the first president of that
organization.

Elizabeth developed a pas-
sion for beautiful objects
when she was very young. Her
mother, who held a degree in
Italian Renaissance art, took
Elizabeth and her cousin to
Europe at an early age,
promising them ice cream if
they were quiet in the muse-
ums. Some years later, as a
fine arts major at Radcliffe in
the midst of the Depression,
Elizabeth spent $35 on a jade
figure she found in a Japanese
store in Boston. She gave the
figure to her father, who was
amused by her willingness to
sacrifice much needed money
for her love of the fine arts.

After graduating in 1933

with a B.A. from Radcliffe,
Elizabeth hoped to pursue a
career in an art museum, but
the desperate economic situa-
tion of the times afforded her
few opportunities. She taught
at schools in New York,
Greenwich, Conn., and Wash-
ington, D.C., before joining
the Waves in 1942 as a naval
intelligence officer, reading
German newspapers and other
publications to track the
German army. She continued
to work for the Waves until
1946 when longtime flame
William Watson called from
Chicago and proposed mar-
riage for what he said would
be the last time. This time,
Elizabeth accepted, and their
adventures in collecting would
begin soon after.

On the island of Shameen,
Elizabeth specifically liked
small turquoise, coral, jade,
and ivory figurines, and often
sought those out as well as fur-
nishings for her home. Having
paid for their furnishings with
company funds, they left
many of their acquisitions in
Canton upon leaving. Quite
often, however, when they
particularly liked a certain
piece, William would tell
Elizabeth to repay the compa-
ny so they could keep it for
themselves.

‘The Watsons received Ori-
ental art as gifts as well, and
when friends made trips to
other areas in China, they also
offered to bring back works of
art for the Watsons. And in
addition to visiting shops,
attending collectors’ lun-
cheons, and receiving gifts
from friends, Elizabeth pur-
chased many pieces from ordi-
nary Chinese citizens. Be-
cause of the political turmoil
and incredible inflation plagu-
ing China at that time, people
were selling family heirlooms
in order to buy food to survive,
and word soon spread among
the locals that Elizabeth
would buy family treasures.
People would come to her
house offering her their most

17

18

(tt House

When the architects at the William A. Hall Partnership
set out to design the Watson Pavilion for Asian Arts, they
realized that the $1 million companion building to the
Reeves Center must have as its main objective a peaceful
coexistence with the Colonnade and the entire north side
of the Washington and Lee campus.

“Our design was ultimately site-generated in nature,”
says John K. Copelin, designing architect and partner in
the New York firm. “We felt strongly that the crucial
‘open axis’ of the Colonnade must be preserved. That's
why we created a separate building pulled away from but
on an axis with the existing Reeves Center. In addition, it
had to be architecturally compatible with the rest of the
historic campus without being a weak, slavish imitation.”

The Watson Pavilion, then, developed on an axial,
symmetrical, Palladian scheme along a center line behind
the Reeves Center, with the front entrance set back five
feet from the existing
brick path. The exterior
of each of the four pavil-
ions around the main
space is 25’ x 25’. Since
the building itself is
rather small—only about
2,500 square feet—the
mall that starts at the
School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics
and extends to duPont
Hall remains unbroken.
The building’s configu-
ration also allows for a
lot of surrounding open
space. Inside, the build-
ing has abundant clere-
story light and flexible artificial lighting and consists of
one central open space and three surrounding open pavil-
ions, all of which are being used for the display of the
Watson collection.

Since Copelin and project architect Michael Nappa
have a solid grounding in art history, the Palladian-influ-
enced design was a natural decision. But Reeves Center
director Thomas V. Litzenburg °57 sees other influences
in the design—specifically, “a building distinguished by
Roman forms that wholly complements the Greek
Revival architecture of the Colonnade.

“The villa-like building, a domed octagon with sym-
metrically balanced pavilions defined by repeating
columns, conveys more than a hint of the classical orders
that characteristically inform the work of Andrea
Palladio,” Litzenburg adds. “The clerestory windows
beneath the pyramidal-hipped roofs of the pavilion, sug-
gestive of Chinese architectural design, constitute an
interesting departure from strict Palladianism.” The
Watson Pavilion, he concludes, “adds appreciatively to
the University’s store of architectural treasures.”

Or, as Copelin puts it: “It simply seemed the right
thing co do at this particular site.”

 

precious objects, and she usu-
ally bought them because she
knew the dealers would not
give them as much money as
she did.

The Watsons lived in Sing-
apore, Bangkok, Indonesia,
and back in the United States
before retiring in 1965 to
Campbell County, Va., with
their collection in tow. Wil-
liam again became involved in
life at Washington and Lee,
and the Watsons accepted an
invitation to lunch at the
home of William W. Pusey III,
dean of the college, for the
purpose of introducing the
Watsons to James Whitehead.
W&L had just received a col-
lection of Chinese Export
porcelain from Louise Herre-
shoff Reeves and her husband,
Euchlin D. Reeves ’27—and
Whitehead, who was put in
charge of the collection but
knew little about Oriental
ceramics, hoped to tap into the
Watsons’ knowledge and ex-
perience.

After lunch, Whitehead
took the Watsons to see the
Reeves collection, which was
then stored in the basement of
the University Center. Most of
the collection was still in mov-
ing barrels, and only a small
portion had been unpacked,
but the Watsons helped
Whitehead identify several
items that day, and often
returned to W&L to help with
the collection as more objects
were unpacked. Since its
establishment in 1982, the
Reeves Center for Research
and Exhibition of Porcelain
and Paintings has garnered
international recognition for
its extensive collection of
Chinese Export porcelain as
well as the more than 2,000
pieces of ceramic art from
England and the Continent.

The Watson Pavilion,
which is both adjacent to and
an extension of Washington
and Lee’s research and exhibi-
tion facilities, boasts more
than 500 pieces of Asian arts—
porcelain, jade, ivory, and

: a oe * Period of
2, years, MW hile Provincial,
popular, and imperial Ceramics
from the Ming and Qin
dynasties in China predomj_
nate - pee the pavil-
ion also exhibits
19th-century Chines Pi
Paint.
ings and furniture.

Among the objects in the
collection is a Buddha head
from the Khmer culture (Cam.
bodia) that dates from the
10th century. Also on display
are Chinese ceramics made
during the Tang (618-907).
Song (960-1279), and Yuan
(1279-1368) dynasties. The
collections are particularly
strong in blue and white Ming
dynasty porcelain as well as
both monochrome and poly-
chrome wares from the Qing
dynasty. Among the poly-
chrome ceramics are vases
made for use by the imperial
household during the reign of
the Emperors Kangxi (1662-
1722) and Yongzheng (1723-
1735). The pavilion also dis-
plays representative examples
of Japanese domestic and ex-
port porcelain as well as early
celadon wares from Korea.

While a large part of the
collection housed in the
Watson Pavilion was donated
by Elizabeth Watson, other
pieces were donated or are on
loan to the University by Mr.
and Mrs. J. Bolton McBryde of
Blacksburg, Va.; W. Groke
Mickey of Charlottesville, Vas
Mrs. William L. Wilson of
Lynchburg; and Felicia Wat
burg Rogan of Charlottesville.

“The Watson Pavilion ts 4
tribute to the kind of vision
that the Watsons shared im
terms of what the Reeves cok
lection means, and how theif
collection would fit in with it,
says Whitehead, who retired
last year as director of the
Reeves Center. “We hope tf
will serve the students and
I’m sure it will.” @

Thanks to Patricia J. Pond
‘93, who provided research for
this story.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For the past 10 years, Jeff Edwards ’78,
°81L, an attorney with Hunton & Williams
in Richmond, has been in charge of
recruiting candidates for the firm from
Washington and Lee. He reasons that a
firm as large as his—the biggest between
Washington, D.C., and ‘Texas—tends to be
characterized, however unjustly, as stodgy,
and over the years his W&L visit has
included dinner and a cocktail party on the
Thursday night before the Friday inter-
views. But this year, he explains, “we
wanted it to be a bit more informal.” So
the itinerary was revamped accordingly,
with Thursday night’s cocktails scrapped
for a keg party Friday after the interviews.

19

Illustration: Hal Mayforth

“We want people to know that we.

not a sweatshop,” Edwards says. “] thi,
y 4 we show that it is important to enjoy t
people you work with—that being ¢¢
THE TOP wal FIRMS fortable with your colleagues is imp,

tant, too.”

While interest in firms tends to run j
cycles—W&L has pockets of attorne,
in firms in New York, Baltimore,
lanta, and elsewhere—the top five
always seem to be a fixture during
recruiting season, according to Sand
Philipps, director of placement for th
law school: “If a student has a goo
experience as a summer associate, the
the word will spread.” Likewise, “Onc
a firm has good results with one of
graduates, there is a kind of snowba
effect. Word-of-mouth keeps the r
cruiters coming back year after year.”

HUNTON &
WILLIAMS

Founded in 1901 in Richmon
Virginia’s largest and most prestigic
law firm for many years now ranks as th
14th largest firm in the United States. —

The firm’s best-known alumnu:
Lewis Powell ’29, ’31L, was a name
partner there when he was presiden
the American Bar Association and unt
he was appointed to the U.S. Suprem
Court. Conversely, former W&L pres
dent Robert E.R. Huntley °50, *57L
joined the firm of counsel when h
returned to the private sector in 1982. —

Other prominent alumni inclu¢
Hunton & Williams chairman Hug
White ’61L; partner Joseph M. Spive
III °62L, former chairman of the Boar
of Visitors at VMI (where he did F
undergraduate work); and Matt Calve
75, °79L, editor-in-chief of the Lé
Review and one of the last clerks for ais
tinguished Federal Judge Mino
Wisdom °25. Hunton & Williams’ W&}
connections now even reach int
Poland, where managing partner Chark
A. “Buck” Blanchard ’85L opened &
Warsaw office in 1992. 7

Beyond the sheer size of the firm-

  
    

460 lawyers, 50 of them holding W&
degrees—one appeal of a Washingt

Photo: Scott Ferrell ‘87

 

rf Hunton © Williams’ Richmond contingent enjoys the winning verdict.
A (J). di m : >

and Lee education among potential
employers is the University’s emphasis
on a broad-based education in the law.
“I think those in charge of recruiting at
Hunton & Williams like W&L grads
because they come across as such well-
says associate

9

rounded individuals,’
Mary Hoge Ackerly ’87L.

Word may have gotten out at Hunton
& Williams that the Washington and
Lee recruiting weekend each fall is the
place to be: More and more non-W&L
graduates are asking to go along. Notes
Ackerly: “Everyone wants to go recruit
at W&L..”

MCGUIRE, WOODS,
BATTLE & BOOTHE

’

“From what I know,” says John
Gunn, Lewis Whitaker Adams professor
of economics at W&L, “this may be the
law firm in which W&L peopie current-
ly have the largest impact on the prac-
tice of law, in the aggregate.” In the
eyes of many, he adds, Virginia’s sec-
ond-largest firm may now be its best:
“Hunton & Williams may have the rep-
utation, but McGuire, Woods has the
lawyers.” Washington and Lee counts
30 grads out of the firm’s 400 lawyers.

Well-known alumni include William
G. Broaddus ’65, the de facto \ead lawyer
in VMI’s battle over coeducation and
Chair of McGuire, Woods’ professional
standards committee; John S. Graham

III °67, managing partner of the Balti-
more office and former Ca/yx editor; and
Rosewell Page III °62, onetime Ring-tum
Phi editor and multiple listee among the
Best Lawyers in America.

“We are committed to interviewing
at a range of schools, including all the
Virginia schools,” says Robert E. Stroud
°56, 58L, a partner in the firm’s Char-
lottesville office. “Washington and Lee
stacks up well in that company.”

WOODS, ROGERS
& HAZLEGROVE

Powell M. Leitch III ’84, ’87L, an
associate at Virginia’s sixth-largest firm,
suggests that once W&L graduates have
a foothold in a firm, the effect becomes
self-perpetuating. “I would not say that
there is an overt W&L feeling here,” he
says, “but one is aware of fellow alum-
ni.” Three of Leitch’s law classmates
work for the firm as well.

Woods, Rogers & Hazlegrove may
have the highest percentage of W&L
graduates in our Top Five, with 22 out
of 70 lawyers holding a W&L degree.

The partner in charge of hiring at the
100-year-old Roanoke-based firm is
James W. Jennings Jr. 65, ’72L, who
was lead articles editor on the Washing-
ton and Lee Law Review. Other promi-
nent alums include William B. Poff
°55L, Michael K. Smeltzer ’61L, and
Paul R. Thomson Jr. ’66L.

 

MAYS &
VALENTINE

From the point of view of David E.
Constine III ’80, coming back to W&L
makes sense: “The University’s reputa-
tion just keeps getting better and bet-
ter,” he says, “so we actively recruit

 

there. And when we have good experi-
ences with the summer associates, we
find they tend to do well as full-time
associates.”

Mays & Valentine was formed in the
1960s with the merger of two prominent
Richmond firms founded in the 1920s.
The 21 W&L alumni with the 130-attor-
ney firm include partners John F. Kay
51, ’55L (a former member of the Law
Council) and Carter Glass IV ’72.

“Lots of us are very active as W&L
alumni,” Constine says. “When there is
an alumni function scheduled in Rich-
mond, a firm-wide memo will be sent
out to W&L grads to let them know
what’s going on.”

HAZEL &
THOMAS

  

This large regional firm (152 attor-
neys total) with offices in northern and
central Virginia, as well as Baltimore and
Washington, D.C., wins the prize for
youth: 10 of the firm’s 17 W&L alumni
have graduated since 1980. And, to
stretch the W&L connection further,
founding partner William Thomas’ wife,
Suzanne, is a trustee, and their son,
Alexander, is a 1993 law graduate.

Can the world ever have too many
W&L lawyers? Probably not. John Don-
aldson ’91, a second-year law student at
the University of Virginia, believes that
the law and undergraduate programs
tend to produce people who can react to
any situation: “They know that a W&L
grad is not going to freeze up in a room
full of people, whether it’s an important
meeting or a cocktail party,” he says.
“There’s a certain flexibility that comes
with a liberal arts emphasis.” ®

21

‘ *
“y Cae

|
Stes:

 

 

 

 

 

22

 

UIEXII PsOEMPF :010Ud

 

 

                       

LEFT FOR DEAD
NTO TOWN.

 

 

a rhe a SS ‘<r
-- . _ en ee a , 7 ee .
- Gat adie ke eS eS
os ——_— . ed <7 naan rh _ x S » at tn esl ~ .
— . .
x rn SS é
cx
\ . ¢ . Pe ay ee
= as ble a ,
aay ny B

eS Ni ee) aL et wv

ee nh A - -
M + —— ok - ;

YTON

 

‘wes sh PR.
GSR A.

an! —_~

- =

. ;

vs

       
   

 

mets LEON Bok AR eS SECA ce --
: os Roane

Teo

  

 

UNTIL) WALLACE

 

+ *
Ton se a3 > +
" Ft a more tl
Tey Rte Alt
Ss
. 559
=. ORNS oe - - =
es PILI BLS ee Ste
oon eee. EP PEN Stee
Kees
eters fo
ee at . ae ed

 

..

 

Wl 4»

            

yy

 

 

<tr} —

 

-
'

x

23

 

t's 8 a.m. and the streets of
‘Tombstone, Ariz., are deserted except
for a few shopkeepers bustling about
their storefronts, preparing for the day’s
first onslaught of tourists. In June, the
temperature can top 100 degrees by
noon, but this early in the morning it’s
still cool and pleasant. In a gift shop
window, there’s a T-shirt with two
skeletons in cowboy hats lying under a
saguaro cactus with the state joke print-
ed below: “...But it’s a dry heat.”

Inside the Old Miner BBQ restau-
rant, breakfast is appropriately hearty
and the locals satisfyingly crusty. A few
are holding forth over coffee about what
sort of gun should be carried on a trip to
New York City. Opinion is divided, but
all agree that, these days, the streets of
‘Tombstone are much safer than those of
the Big Apple.

Across the way, a huge cottonwood
shades the entrance to 7he Tombstone
Epitaph, a frontier paper founded in
1880 by John P. Clum (who wrote, “No
‘Tombstone is complete without its epi-
taph”). Now an internationally circulat-
ed monthly journal of Western history,
the Epitaph is Arizona’s oldest continu-
ously published newspaper and proba-
bly the West’s most famous publication
in the West’s most cele-

brated town.
In its brief heyday,
HERE LIES

this old mining town
where the streets
CEORSEGOHUSOY were paved in silver
HANGED BY
MISTAKE
1832
HE WAS RIGHT
WEWAS WRONG
BUT WE STRUNG
HIM UP.
ANDNOW HE'S
CONE
SCD

was a study in con-
trasts: While Wyatt
Earp and Doc Holli-
day were blasting
their way into the
national psyche at the
O.K. Corral, the town’s
more discriminating
citizenry could enjoy
French cuisine and a
night at the opera. In
the intervening years,
the more mundane
details of daily exis-
tence have become
obscured and_ the

myths surrounding Tombstone have
grown up thicker than the sagebrush on
the flats outside of town.

Which is why, when talking to Wally
Clayton ’44—the Epitaph’s editor and
publisher for nearly 30 years now—it’s
best not to profess too much interest in
The Gunfight. “The damn Gunfight,”
he sighs wearily. “You want to become
the 50,678th expert on the damn
Gunfight.”

Well, Clayton would never admit it,
but this newspaperman turned P.R. man
and self-described “eastern/southern/
midwestern tenderfoot” is an expert
among experts on the Gunfight. A past
chairman of the ‘Tombstone Tourist
Association, Clayton can also show you
the way to Boot Hill, point you to the
best gift shop in town, and tell you the
story behind the town’s colorful name.
How he wound up in Tombstone is a
tale worthy of the place that bills itself
as “The Town Too Tough To Die.”

  

allace E. Clayton came to
Washington and Lee in 1940 from
Cranbury, N.J. “The pre-war W&L was
like heaven,” he recalls. “For the first
two years of the war, everything there
was the way it always had been—very
traditional.” “That changed with Pearl
Harbor. By the time he was called up at
the end of his junior year, campus life
was in such disarray that he had one
class where he eventually became the
only student. “The teacher and I ended
up meeting over beers at a local hang-
out,” he recalls. “It didn’t matter. I still
had to study just as much as before.”
Clayton worked on the staffs of the
Southern Collegian and The Ring-tum Phi,
serving as editor of both of these publi-
cations in his junior year. He came back
in 1946 for two semesters to finish his
degree and, with the aid of journalism
professor O.W. Riegel, landed a job with
The Washington Star in 1947. For five
years he was assigned to various posts
around Washington, including the court

 

beat. He found being a reporter eXCiting
and he was good at it, but Matriage (hig
wife of 29 years, Muriel, is an artist) and
the realities of a newspaperman’s Pay
soon forced him to look elsewhere.

So Clayton joined the Washington
office of the J. Walter Thompson Go, jn
1952. He moved from there to open
JWT’s public relations office in Detroit,
where he worked on special projects for
the Ford Motor Co. “Those Were
Detroit’s golden days,” he recalls fond-
ly, “when money was no object.” That
included a trip to Monaco to introduce a
new line of automobile and a reception
with Princess Grace.

As an associate trustee at the Detroit
Institute of Arts, Clayton was a friend of
the institute’s president who, convinced
that Arizona was the land of opportuni-
ty, talked Clayton into accompanying
him on a trip to the Grand Canyon State
in 1963. One day, with nothing else
planned, they decided on a whim to
make a side trip to Tombstone. What
Clayton found there surprised him.

“By historical miracle—and a far-see-
ing town ordinance—Tombstone had
been spared the gouges of bulldozers,
the glare of neon, and the blasphemy of
McDonald’s,” he recalls. “It appeared
much as it had in the boom years—
American art in architectural form.”
Picking up a copy of the Epitaph, he
noticed that the O.K. Corral was for sale.
“After a serious business discussion of
about a minute,” he says, “we found the
owner and took a 10-day option.”

Soon after, Clayton and three other
investors formed a corporation, Historic
Tombstone Adventures, and began the
process of restoring the town’s long-
decrepit landmarks. The Crystal Palace
Saloon, where the miners gambled and
drank; Schieffelin Hall, the town’s cul-
tural center, named for Tombstone’s
founder; and the lot next to the O.K.
Corral, where the Gunfight was actually
fought—all were brought back as closely
as possible to their original states.

Once restoration work got underway
in early 1964, Clayton planned a leave of
absence from JWT not only to supervise

activity but “more importantly,” he says,

“ro research, research, research.” ‘Then,
‘n late January, he got word back in
Detroit that the editor of the Epitaph
had been killed in a plane crash. He
flew out ©
putting out the memorial edition and
the next W eek’s issue.

“I told the widow, who was undecid-

. Arizona that same night,

ed about what to do, that I would come
back in late April to help her with the
paper,” Clayton recalls. “And I did. I
had a ball. Each Sunday afternoon I'd
get into the files and write a historical
feature, the weekly lead story, the edito-
rials, and dummy up the front page.
When the folks at JWT suggested I had
vacationed long enough, I asked her
what she was going to do. ‘Sell,’ she
said. Buy, we did.”

Clayton took early retirement from
the company in 1981 to assume the edi-
torship full-time in the paper’s 101st
year. The Epitaph had been published
under the same name continuously
since its inception, first as a weekly,
then as a daily during the boom years,
then in 1893 as the Sunday edition of
the Dai/y Prospector, then back to a
weekly when that paper folded in 1923.
That lasted until 1975, when Clayton
switched from a weekly to a monthly
format, ushering in the Epitaph’s most
recent (and non-profit) incarnation as
“The National Newspaper of the Old
West.” “The locals who knew the histo-
ry skipped it, and the out-of-towners
who subscribed for historic material
didn’t give a damn about when the
Lions Club was meeting,” he offers by
way of explanation.

Clayton’s office is tucked away in the
tear of the Epitaph building, past a large
room full of linotype equipment, now
silent and covered in plastic. It’s a
reminder that, until 1990, the paper was
Printed the old-fashioned way. (In fact,
according to the International Typo-
€raphical Union, it was the last national-
ly circulated publication in the country
using hot type.) Clayton reluctantly
Switched to cold type and a Tucson
Printer, but the contents remain com-

5 (3 Aa Dow ae
We
TRGS ae

See UF eee EE,

 

 

 

“IT’S HARD TO MAKE ANY MONEY” RUNNING A NEWSPAPER, CLAYTON SAYS, “WHEN
THERE’S NO SUPERMARKET OR CAR DEALERSHIP IN TOWN.”

fortably consistent: One recent issue of
the Epitaph, for example, was largely
devoted to the sesquicentennial of the
Oregon Trail, with stories on the 1878
Lincoln County War in New Mexico
and the young man’s corpse that trav-
eled the whole length of the trail in a
whiskey-filled coffin. Reviews, recipes,
and humorous anecdotes fill out the

remainder of the paper.

Putting the past into proper perspec-
tive has turned out to be one of
Clayton’s biggest challenges—especially
when it comes to the subject of ‘Tomb-
stone, about which everyone’s perspec-
tive differs, sometimes wildly. “I’ve
lived with the fact of ‘Tombstone for 30
years now,” he states. “And the fiction.”

25

Photo: Edward McCain

  

erhaps nowhere else in the West
are the myths and realities of the Old
West better exemplified—or more
mixed up—than in Tombstone. “It was
probably the greatest and the shortest of
the Western silver booms,” says Clayton
of the town’s rough-and-tumble heyday.
For five or six years, Tombstone, flush
with sudden wealth, was a raw-boned,
anything-goes frontier town that attract-
ed its share of rogues, con men, gam-
blers, rustlers, and whores—as well as
preachers, accountants, doctors, and
other civic-minded folk. But by the late
1880s, Tombstone entered into a long
decline, spurred on by falling silver
prices, strikes, and two devastating fires.
When the mines flooded, the big mining
companies cleared out, leaving only a
few mom-and-pops behind. If it had not
been the Cochise County seat and a
supply station for the surrounding
ranches, Tombstone most certainly
would have slid into oblivion.

Of course, that does not account for
the far-reaching reverberations of the
events of Oct. 26, 1881. The showdown
between the Clanton gang and the Earp
brothers (with Doc Holliday) that blew
away Billy Clanton and ‘Tom and Frank
McLowry became the symbol of the
lawlessness of the Old West. That
roughly 30-second shootout has become
as much a part of American frontier
mythology as the Alamo or the Donner
Party. “If it was not for the damn Gun-
fight, Tombstone would be a ghost town
today,” Clayton observes.

While recognizing the importance of
the Gunfight to the health of modern-
day Tombstone, Clayton sometimes
feels like the only person “who thinks
the damn Gunfight has been done to
death.” Yet he finds the public’s contin-
uing fascination with the Gunfight far
more interesting than studying minutiae
like what sort of underwear Virgil Earp
was wearing that day. Since the histori-
cal Wyatt Earp was a more complex fig-
ure than generally portrayed in popular
culture, Earpologists from both sides of
the spectrum—the serious scholars and
the armchair theorists—tend to wind up

26

in two mutually antagonistic camps: the
pro-Earps and the anti-Earps. The two
sides square off from time to time, as
was the case at this year’s meeting of
the Western Outlaw and Lawman
History Association in Denver. “There
is no middle ground,” Clayton says.
“People are either strong supporters or
strong detractors.”

‘This phenomenon, or Earpmania, has
been perpetuated over the years
through books (58, including the latest,
Wyatt Earp’s Tombstone Vendetta, pub-
lished in September), movies (27, rang-
ing from 1946’s My Darling Clementine,
with Henry Fonda as Earp and Victor
Mature as Doc Holliday, to 1965’s The
Outlaws is Coming! (The Three Stooges’
final film outing—no Curly), and televi-
sion (“Wyatt Earp, Frontier Marshal”
and “Tombstone Territory”). Dueling
big-screen treatments of the Western
legend—Tombstone, starring Kurt Rus-
sell as the famous lawman, and Wya/t
Earp, with Kevin Costner in the sad-
dle—are bound to boost public interest
even higher in the coming year, and
Clayton has spoken in recent months
with researchers preparing a pair of doc-
umentaries on Earp.

‘This obsession with a single incident
has resulted in a one-dimensional pic-
ture of Tombstone’s history, in Clay-
ton’s opinion. “We lose sight of the
place in all its wonderful variety,” he
says. “All those little cogs that meshed
so importantly are overlooked.” As edi-
tor of the Epitaph, he has made it some-
thing of a mission to rectify the situa-
tion. Clayton, who lives in Tucson,
makes the 120-mile round trip at least
once a week. He combs the paper’s
crumbling bound editions for old gems,
as well as drawing on a pool of some 25
dedicated contributors for articles, art,
poetry, and reviews. Most of them, like
Clayton, are members of the Western
Writers Association, and they all work
for free, he says, “to help keep a famous
newspaper name alive.”

Clayton edits all the copy, sometimes
supplementing articles with his own
research, and sends it to the printer in

    
    
    
  
 
 
   
    
   
   
    
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

‘Tucson. ‘The paper has about 8,000 «,
scribers and pays for itself (the Epita
Corp. is non-profit). Even though ¢
actual Epitaph office is no longer nee
sary in the strictest business sep
Clayton keeps it open despite ¢
expense in doing so. Echoing the we
of founder John P. Clum, he says firm,
“Tombstone without an Epitaph woy
be unthinkable.”

 

s the day begins to heat
a family walks by, talking animatedly
German—a reminder that a Tombste
without tourists would be unthinkak
Tourism is the primary employer ig
town that, with half a million visito
each year, is second only to the Gr 1
Canyon in drawing vacationers
Arizona. Marketing the past—trading
its infamy—is the only way for Tom
stone’s 1,600 residents to make a living
But while there are a lot of gift she
in Tombstone—perhaps too many.
underneath every tacky sign on Alle
Street is a small brass plaque, a remine
er that this particular building merite
inclusion on the National Register ¢
Historic Places. The past is real he
but, true to its origins, it is
not treated with dour rev-
erence. This is no
Colonial Williamsburg
with cowboys, but rather
a place that exults in its
brash and cheeky past.
Clayton understands
this, and Tombstone
should count itself lucky
that he rode into town
that day. To have an
advocate who combines
a PR man’s savvy with a
newspaperman’s love of
the truth is indeed for-
tunate. Add to that an
equal measure of irrev-
erence, and it’s a
match made in
heaven. @

 

 

4 sé a : , 7 r
LE, Wi Gia Ccte ba ‘ ‘ ‘ Clé Lida

and when Parmly Hall was completed in
1962—it was called the New Science
Building at the time—the field of mole-
cular biology didn’t even exist. So it
should come as no surprise that her
work is hindered somewhat by the phys-
ical limitations of her surroundings.
Russell must commute up and down
three flights of stairs in Parmly Hall to
gain access to labs, centrifuges, and
other equipment necessary to the manu-
facture and study of DNA strands. “I’m
constantly going up and down the stairs
in order to do my experiments,” she
says, smiling, “so I get my exercise.”

Science changes. Students will still be
reading Shakespeare 100 years from
now, still deriving Newton’s mathemati-
cal formulas, still arguing philosophical
differences that go back to the time of
Plato and Aristotle. But you could con-
ceivably study these things in any old
building—or, as is the case at Washing-
ton and Lee, one of the historic build-
ings along the Colonnade.

Science doesn’t work that way.
Science requires laboratories. And more
than 30 years after the physical needs of
W&L’s existing facilities were ad-
dressed, serious inadequacies threaten
the continued vitality of 31-year-old
Parmly and 68-year-old Howe halls:

28

COON

, al, s%

, ' ; se f , sh f — , J , /
MOST €W107 mem lr f r The (é7N187 } GeDpaTi

} _j — ; , ; S ; ; ;
Prob, jm ‘ The rf \ HOWE a, Dill Tie J}

ancient plumbing. Dubious wiring. The
lack of a central ventilation system.
Scientists are hard on buildings, labs,
equipment—everyshing. Washington and
Lee holds labs four days a week during
the academic year, and a visitor need
not spend very much time around the
laboratory area to know that the hoods
don’t all function like they should.
“There are days when you just don’t go
on the fourth floor,” observes assistant
professor of chemistry Steve Desjardins.
(Conversely, Desjardins, a theorist, has a
working hood in his research lab-turned-
office space on the third floor of Howe.)
Arthur E. Broadus ’64, professor of
medicine and physiology at the Yale
School of Medicine, knows. He audited
the chemistry department in 1989,
spending the better part of a week with
the faculty and students. “I revisited the
fact that the learning atmosphere I had
known is alive and well,” he says, “but
the physical plant is hardly an asset.”
How bad is it? Last year, during a
chemistry class for non-majors taught by
Desjardins, a demonstration of aspira-
tion—in which running water creates a
suction vacuum filtration—very nearly
flooded the room. “The sinks couldn’t
handle the water flow,” he recalls, “and
I didn’t know what to do. We started
bailing the water out the windows. I

 

literally had a bucket brigade going.”

How bad is it? Trustee William M.
Gottwald ’70 reported to the Board of
Trustees at its May 1992 meeting thar
on a scale of 1 to 10, he would have to
rate Washington and Lee’s laboratories a
mere 2.5—well below many secondary
school facilities, and embarrassingly
below collegiate and industrial laborato-
ries with which he was familiar.

At that same meeting, the trustees
decided that the urgency of a new s¢ei-
ence building took precedence over a
proposed student center, which had
been part of the long range plan adopted
by the board several years ago. The new
science center became the focus of
W&L’s physical projects planning.

In the eyes of W. Lad Sessions, pro-
fessor of philosophy and associate dean
of the college, Washington and Lee’s
new science center involves much more
than new and renovated buildings. “It
means nothing less than invigorating
instruction and research in six science
departments, catalyzing interdisciplinary
inquiry, and providing a home for a sci-
entific community that over-arches
departmental boundaries,” he says.

Currently, the six science depart
ments (biology, chemistry, computer
science, geology, physics/engineering,
and psychology) are housed in four
buildings, each of them in cramped
quarters and some in substandard facili-
ties. The new science center will be
realized by completely renovating both
Howe and Parmly, the two primary Sh
ence buildings, and interpolating 4 large
new addition between them that will
add 68,000 gross square feet to the exis
ing 93,000 gross square feet at a cotal

ee

 

project cost of $20 million. Assuming
construction begins as early as next
spring, all three stages—construction of
the new building, and the renovations of
Howe and Parmly—should be complet-
ed by the start of the fall 1997 term.

The push for a new science center
comes at a time when the 30 full-time
faculty in the sciences, all of whom have
eaned doctorates, are garnering high
grades in and outside the classroom for
their work. Trustee Tom Wolfe ’51
attended the “Brain and Mind” Alumni
College on campus in June, and he has
nothing but good words for the work of
professor of psychology Leonard E.
Jarrard and his associates. “His young
faculty are brilliant researchers,” Wolfe
told the gathering at the New England
kickoff of the Campaign for Washington
and Lee in September. “It’s absolutely
amazing to see the ability of these great
researchers to teach...and it’s something
that Washington and Lee’s students see
every day.”

Jarrard is consistently generating
foundation support for his studies of the
hippocampus (“We’re all probably more
aware of that part of the brain than most
people are,” jokes Desjardins), and he’s
not the only one. Over the past two
years, one-third of W&L’s science facul-
ty have received external funding for
fesearch. Kenneth E. Van Ness, associ-
ate professor of physics and engineering,
'S Working with R.E. Lee scholars on
fecyclable plastics and materials. Lisa
Alty, assistant professor of chemistry, is
doing biomedical research that connects
"UP with biology.

Because departments will be placed
'N close proximity to other, allied de-
Partments in the new science center,

——

 

Barlow Newbolt worked with the Lee Scholars program last summer studying laser defraction:

“You get students into the laboratories and let them try and find out things for themselves.”

Sessions believes this will only acceler-
ate the perceptible trend toward inter-
disciplinary inquiry and instruction, as
evidenced by the collaborative nature of
such areas as neuroscience, cognitive
science, biochemistry, geochemistry,
geophysics, and computer modeling.
“Since scientific problems have a way of
breaching departmental or disciplinary
levees, good scientific researchers must
be prepared to collaborate with their
peers from other departments in solving
them,” Sessions says, “just as good
teachers of science must be prepared to
lead their students in inquiry on and
beyond the boundaries of common
problems.”

An assistant professor of chemistry,
Steve Desjardins represents the inter-
disciplinary character. In addition to
teaching a popular class on CHAOS theo-
ry to non-majors during spring term,
he’s also working on a project with a
biologist, a computer scientist, a mathe-
matician, and a physicist. “This is with-
out a doubt the friendliest campus I’ve
ever encountered,” says Desjardins.
“People will listen to you here. They
will express a genuine interest.”

That interest extends beyond even
the interdisciplinary nature of the sci-
ences. Last spring, Desjardins gave a
lecture in professor of English Edwin

Craun’s science fiction and fantasy class
on a novel, 7he Dispossessed, and now, in
return, he wants somebody from the
English department to come to his
CHAOS course, because people have
started applying the notion of CHAOS to
literary criticism. “Since I’ve been here,
we talk to each other a lot more,” he
notes. “It used to be that everybody was
off in their own little kingdom.”

Even if scientific minds don’t neces-
sarily think alike, the new science cen-
ter would bring all those heads together
under one roof. They might cross paths
in the three-story science library at the
front entrance of the center, convenient
to all departments, that will gather to-
gether several presently scattered col-
lections. Or they can trade ideas in the
multi-story Great Hall, which will be the
visual and circulation hub of the center.
By helping foster collaborative efforts
between the various disciplines, the
center should further break the stereo-
type of a scientist as “a little mole with
the white hair who doesn’t talk to any-
body and only thinks about his own
work,” as Darcy Russell puts it.

“Talking to other people triggers the
imagination,” adds Russell, who has
talked with chemistry colleagues Des-
jardins and Alty of doing research
together. “We simply cannot do science

29

 

With its design, Payette Associates has created a space that not only pulls the sciences closer

together but brings the physical property “up to the dining room table” with Stemmons Plaza.

in a vacuum anymore.”

At a time when the number of sci-
ence majors is proliferating at W&L, the
need for a new science center becomes
even more apparent. The number of
students majoring in science from the
fall 1988 term to the spring 1993 term
increased from 144 to 238, with biology
majors (82) leading the way. All students
must complete a laboratory science
course to fulfill general education
requirements, and courses in the sci-
ences and mathematics comprise ap-
proximately 25 percent of the Univer-
sity’s 800-course curriculum.

Since the 1960s, the Robert E. Lee
Undergraduate Research Program has
facilitated collaborative research by fac-
ulty and students both during the acade-
mic year and particularly during the
summer. Russell has had a student dur-
ing each of her four summers at W&L,
and “the students have been very
good,” she says, “almost as good as a
graduate student.”

This unusually well-developed stu-
dent-faculty program is continually
hampered, however, by the University’s
substandard laboratories, and even
though the students presently enrolled
in the sciences will have graduated by
the time the new science center is ready
to open, Desjardins says, “The students

30

are more excited than we are. ‘They per-
ceive it as a validation of what they do
here. You look around and Washington
and Lee has a beautiful campus, and a
lot of the buildings are old and venera-
ble. Howe is just old.”

When professor Barlow Newbolt
came to Washington and Lee in 1962,
one of his first jobs was carrying materi-
als to the New Science Building from
physics’ old home in Reid Hall. “Ed
Turner was the head of the department
at the time,” recalls Newbolt, “and all
these little pieces of equipment had a
little identification number. He knew

’

where he wanted each piece to go.”
While Parmly was built to support
scientific work, “the rumor was that
they didn’t raise quite enough money as
they had hoped to,” he recalls. One tan-
gible piece of evidence to support that
theory is the war-surplus desks and cabi-
nets (“early Army,” Newbolt calls it)
with which the building is furnished.
While Parmly “has served us well,”
Newbolt says, it has many basic design
flaws—everything from energy efficien-
cy to the placement of a sink in the
teaching labs where a blackboard should
be—that the new facility will address.
Another senior member of Washing-
ton and Lee’s science faculty, professor

 

of chemistry William J. Watt, came to
the University in 1955, before there was
even a Parmly Hall. “The thing that ]
remember most about is how they
remodeled Howe Hall around us,” he
says. “My office had a piece of plastic
wrapping to protect me from the wind.
My strongest recollection is the wind
blowing through my office. Let me tel]
you, it was very cold that winter. I didn’t
take my boots off.

“When I was a young faculty mem-
ber, I saw the great need for more
space,” Watt adds. “The young faculty
members today see the great need for
more space. There are a lot of similari-
ties. Just like back then, the hood sys-
tem’s no longer adequate, the lecture
room needs to be upgraded, we need
more space for student research, we
need more space for the kinds of equip-
ment we have. These are a lot of the
same needs we had.”

Twenty million dollars from now, the
new science building will complete the
landscaping of Stemmons Plaza, tying
together architecturally DuPont Hall
and the new Watson Pavilion with
Tucker Hall and the Leyburn Library.
But that’s not all. “Completion of the
new science center will be a milestone
in Washington and Lee’s quest for
excellence in teaching the liberal arts
and sciences,” Sessions notes.

In the meantime, the research and
teaching carry on as before. Russell will
continue her work on the sindbis virus,
having characterized two mutations 1?
seven years of research so far. wee
she

new science center is completed,
nts if

have more time for her experime
for one simple fact: All her equipment
will be together on one floor.

 

Once a new science center had been identified as the University’s most pressing
physical need and a space study was conducted, half a dozen architects were invited
to campus for interviews in the summer of 1992, and three were then selected to
come back to the University with plans to be presented last November to the capital
projects committee and the Board of Trustees. The winner was Payette Associates
Inc. of Boston, which has built a science research center at Duke University as well as
facilities at Harvard, Princeton, Cornell University Medical College and the
University of Pennsylvania. The architects began their work immediately, meeting
with science department heads and others who would be using the facility, “essential-
ly validating the space study,” according
to Frank A. Parsons 54, coordinator for
facilities planning.

Space, it would seem, zs the final fron-
tier. Beyond the immediate physical con-
cerns of W&L’s decades-old science
facilities—hoods that don’t work, and
test tubes that don’t test—one of the
most pressing problems facing the pres-
ent and future science faculty is finding
the personal and instructional laboratory
space they need. “In order for faculty to
be vital teachers,” says W. Lad Sessions,
“they themselves must engage in the
kind of research that requires personal
spaces and equipment that they essen-
tially control.”

The problem, as senior faculty retire
over the next few years, is that not every-
body on staff has a lab, but everyone who
comes in is going to need one. Case in
point: To accommodate assistant profes-
sor Erich Uffelman, a new addition to the
chemistry department this fall, the folks over in Howe had to dredge him up a lab
upstairs where none existed before. That will change with the new science center.

The total amount of space allocated to W&L’s science facilities is 60,700 net
square feet—an anemic 60 percent of the average at peer institutions. Preliminary
estimates, based on current dollars, suggest that the combination of new construction
and the complete renovation of Howe and Parmly will require approximately $20 mil-
lion. Another $5 million is being sought to create an endowment for the sciences.

Over the next two years, the Campaign for Washington and Lee must raise $40
million to meet its $127 million goal in 1995. With $6 million currently committed to
the new science center, what that means is roughly one in three dollars still to be
raised, or nearly $14 million, will help to make the new science center a reality.

 

31

 

Washington and Lee has fielded its

Th share of outstanding athletes, but once
U their playing days are over, most of them

4 hang up their uniforms. Two exceptions

are former basketball standout Pat
x-(senerals Dennis °78, now coaching for The

Citadel; and Duke lacrosse coach Mike

C p () a Pressler 82. Here’s our scouting report.

From Sixth Man
To Head Man

All Pat Dennis wanted was a drink of
water. Thirsty from the intensive scrim-
maging at the Boston Celtics rookie bas-

* &. J

As a student at W&L, “I used to spend ketball camp, he walked into the men’s
hours and hours in the gym,” says Pat room, looking for a water fountain, hard-
Dennis ’78. “The janitors can tell you how ly expecting to find a living legend. But
much of a gym rat I was.” it was there—in a gymnasium bathroom

in the summer of ’78—that Dennis
came face-to-face with a basketball god.

A few months earlier, Dennis
enjoyed a magical senior season at
Washington and Lee, putting on one of

32

 

 

——

the greatest performances ever in g
Generals athletic uniform. And now in
August, Dennis, one of Division IIT bas.
ketball’s best ever, stood alone amon
the porcelain with Red Auerbach, the
Celtics president and winningest Coach
in NBA history. And Auerbach, who had
been watching the scrimmages from the
sidelines, had a few things to Say to him.

“Pat Dennis, I thought you were Re
nothing from Washington and Lee, but
you're my type ball player,” Auerbach
said. “If I had known about you sooner,
you would have gone second or third
round [in the NBA draft]. I don’t know
exactly when we are going to let you go,
but just keep hustling in there.”

While Auerbach held little hope of
Dennis ever playing for Boston, his
words proved much more refreshing to
Dennis than any drink of water. Dennis
survived several cuts at the Celtics
camp, and he was the last rookie curt
from the team. So he wasn’t going to be
the next Bill Walsh.

Pat Dennis would be the next Red
Auerbach instead.

As a non-starter on Loyola High
School basketball team in Baltimore,
Dennis played the sixth-man role and
was only lightly recruited. Friends inter-
ested him in W&L, and as a freshman
he tried out for the basketball team.
‘T’wo seasons later, coach Verne Can-
field could call the junior guard “poten-
tially one of W&L’s most prolific scorers
ever.” Today, Canfield considers
Dennis “one of the finest players we've
had or ever will have.”

After a junior season in which he
averaged 21.7 points per game and a
W&L-record 57.4 shooting percentage,
Dennis poured in 25 points a game and
scored a school-record 700 points as 4
senior. He led the Generals to a best
ever 23-5 record his junior year and a
22-6 mark the following season. He fin-
ished his career with 1,428 points, S¢¥-
enth on W&L’s all-time scoring list, and
became the first General since Dom
Flora in 1958 to be named a first-team
Division III All-American. One basket
ball publication named Dennis the
Division III Player of the Year.

Canfield has but one regret regarding
Dennis: “That there was no three-point

—_

shot
averaged

three-pointer.
He coached a year of high school in

when he was here. Pat would have
30 points a game with the

Baltimore at the junior varsity level.
Dennis next took a part-time assistant
coaching position at ‘Towson State for
ewo years, and in 1982 he became a full-
rime assistant at Loyola (Md.) College,
where he helped take a 4-24 team to a
16-11 record, giving Loyola the distinc-
tion of being the most improved
Division I team in the country that year.

Success seems to follow Dennis.
After three years at Loyola, he joined
George Washington University as an
assistant, and the basketball team had
its best season in a decade. The follow-
ing spring he was hired by Dick ‘Tarrant
at Richmond, and over the next seven
years the Spiders won at least 21 games
six times and made four NCAA ‘Tour-
naments and two National Invitation
Tournament appearances. Most memo-
rable were Richmond’s NCAA Tour-
nament upsets of Indiana, Georgia ‘Tech
and Syracuse.

First as a player and now as a coach,
Dennis repeatedly finds himself in an
underdog role. When he accepted his
first head coaching job last year—a job
that
toughest in the country”— Dennis took

‘

‘a lot of people tell me is the

on what has doubtless proven to be his
biggest challenge to date: revitalizing
the basketball program at The Citadel
in Charleston, S.C.

“Nobody faces the roadblocks you do
at a military school like The Citadel or
VMI,” says the 37-year-old Dennis.
“You can be only so good, and if you go
900, here you’re considered very suc-
cessful. A victory means a lot more here
than it does elsewhere.”

Attracting basketball talent to a mili-
tary college environment like The
Citadel makes recruiting a major chal-
lenge. “The 10th, 11th, or even 12th
Player at the other Southern Conference
schools might be equal to the best play-
“fon our team. They bring in players
recruited by Atlantic Coast Conference
Schools or junior college transfers, so
that’s a big hurdle we face.”

To be blunt, not much was expected
ut of The Citadel during its first year

 

Duke lacrosse coach Mike Pressler ’82: “It’s tough to get a foot in the door tn this profession.”

under Dennis. After winning its season
opener against Charleston Southern, the
Bulldogs seemed to affirm the league’s
prediction of a 10th-place finish—last in
the conference—by going on an 11-
game losing streak. ‘Then Dennis direct-
ed a remarkable turnaround, and The
Citadel won eight of its last 12 league
games to finish sixth in the conference,
10-17 overall. Citadel athletic director
Walt Nadzak is pleased: “In one year,
he brought excitement and respectabili-
ty back to Citadel basketball.” And even
Dennis admits, “We did a lot of things
people didn’t expect us to do.”

Dennis says he and his family (wife
Sherry, daughter Haddie, 6, and son
Finn, 5) could be ’very happy here for
the next 25 years, but I’m driven and
dream of someday coaching in the ACC
or Southeastern Conference. I have to
establish myself here, and I don’t know

if you do that with wins and losses or in
your ability to coach, but people will
find out about you.”

On Dec. 1, Dennis will be facing a
coach whose résumé has a familiar ring
to it. That day Dennis’ Bulldogs battle
national power Duke, directed by a once
little-known young coach who came to
Durham, N.C., from West Point, N.Y.,
after his Army basketball team scraped
together a 9-17 record. Clearly someone
was looking beyond just the numbers
when they hired Mike Krzyzewski.

—By Fred Rindge ’83

Mike Pressler:
A Quick Learner

At Washington and Lee, the Career
Development and Placement Office
helps eager graduates find places in the
working world. Mike Pressler ’82 didn’t

33

need to visit the office. He was his own.
Once an All-American football player,
Pressler is now Duke University’s head
lacrosse coach, where he continues to
enjoy the success he patterned at W&L.

His career started on Wilson Field,
where he built a sparkling résumé. As a
football player, Pressler was a four-year
starter on defense and led the team in
tackles twice under coach Gary Fallon.
He recorded 362 tackles, including 63
behind the line of scrimmage. As a
lacrosse player under coach Jack
Emmer, he scored 22 goals and had 37
assists in three seasons as an attackman
before moving over to defense his senior
year.

Upon graduating, Pressler knew he
didn’t want to give athletics up, so when
then-and-present W&L assistant coach
Frank Miriello offered Pressler the
chance to join him at Hampden-Sydney
as a football and lacrosse assistant, he
jumped. The rest is history. “I was
going to Hampden-Sydney to be an
assistant football coach,” Miriello says.
“I needed some help, so I ran the idea
by him and he said, Yes.”

“Frank Miriello was the one who got
me involved in coaching,” Pressler
recalls. “I caught the coaching bug from
him. He helped me get the graduate
assistant job at Hampden-Sydney, and

then I got a call from Jack Emmer about
the Virginia Military job.”

Emmer, the former W&L coach, rec-
ommended Pressler for the job, and he
subsequently became VMI’s first
lacrosse coach. So not quite one year out
of college, Pressler was a Division I
head coach. Pressler put up a 7-4 season
at VMI in 1983 before following Emmer
to the U.S. Military Academy, where he
was a full-time assistant, developing a
place in the coaching ranks.

Pressler’s success came as no surprise
to Miriello, who realized that Pressler
had what it takes to be a successful
coach in his first days at Hampden-
Sydney. “He has great intensity and a
great work ethic,” Miriello says. “He
gets respect from his players quickly.
He teaches and coaches with a certain
presence. He does things in such a way
that there is an instant credibility in
what he is saying. And on top of that
he’s a great recruiter.”

After three years at Army, Pressler
took the head coaching job at Division
III power Ohio Wesleyan. In each of his
five years, Pressler took OWU to the
NCAA ‘Tournament, reaching the finals
twice and the semifinals three times. To
earn his first trip to the final in 1987,
Pressler’s team had to beat a W&L team
that had been ranked No. 1 in the

—_—

nation and that had beaten him e
that season. “After the first game, whe
W&L just killed us, I remember lookial
around and thinking that it was the first
time that I had been on the other side of
the field at W&L,” he said. “Ip the
semifinals, I really wanted to beat
W&L—not only for myself, but for the
team. We had a lot riding on the game:
emotion, the earlier loss to them, afl
that they were standing between us and
our first trip to the NCAA final.”

OWU won 17-4 and Pressler has
never looked back. After his fifth season
at OWU, Pressler, the school’s Win-
ningest coach by percentage, took the
Duke job, where he posted a 9-5 record
last season and was selected to be a
head coach in the North-South All-Star
game. In nine years as a head coach,
Pressler has never had a sub-.500 year,
His career record is 99-37,

arlier

And while his success has come away
from W&L, Pressler hasn’t forgotten
how he got involved in coaching.
“When I was very young I had some
great people give me great opportuni-
ties,” Pressler says. “It’s tough to get a
foot in the door in this profession, and it
was my W&L ties that got me going.
I’m very fortunate that Washington and
Lee afforded me this opportunity.”

—By Jay Plotkin °92

 

W&L director of athletics Michael
Walsh, second from right, discuss-
es the upcoming Bermuda Bowl
during a press conference in
Hamilton, Bermuda. Washington
and Lee will take on Georgetown
University in Hamilton on Saturday,
Nov. 20, in the first football game
ever played in Bermuda. Also pic-
tured, from left, are Bob Robustelli
of Robustelli Sports Marketing; —=—
Randy Horton, assistant director -UNUL TURIN ,

for the Bermuda department of hoo 2 a
tourism; Jim Woolridge, Bermuda a ae é
minister of tourism; and Denis NIVERSIT
Kanach, senior associate director (|

of athletics for Georgetown.

 

 

 

 

 

34

‘a

eve vice

Law

Open 24 Hours

Lewis Hall Makes a Law Student’s Day

an 4

ed 4
a OA ys ae
17. Sis f is
hd i barr
- = |
ay , 7 a

By MARK CATHEY ’93L

Pens scratching furiously under its
24-hour florescent lights. ‘The incessant
click of keyboard keys and hisses of
computer disks. ‘The shuffling of papers
accompanied by the cracking of soda
cans and crinkling of Lance Toastchee
wrappers. [hough few in Lexington
know of the endless drone of activity
behind its walls, Lewis Hall is no mere
school or library: To the Washington
and Lee law student, it is everything. At
times it demands and deserves every
waking moment. It is nothing less than a
way of life to those who inhabit it.

I shake my head. I must be tired; I’m
Waxing poetic about a building. I’m in
the later hours of an all-night research
Paper session, scheduled conveniently
after a six-hour newspaper layout. I sup-
Pose that it is no wonder that I’m expe-
nencing such sensory saturation. In my
three years at Washington and Lee, I
have spent a lot of time in Lewis Hall.
More time than I have ever spent in one
building in my life.

Of course, I’m not alone. When |
think that | spend a lot of time in this

ES ade
“ * iti.

a ae

ref : "ae
ote
-.

A ‘ “) -
el Oe ete oO a Bw Wee

aa a ee
ars
hea. Ps SES

 

a
i 4 f ' - 3 ty ~ iL; oS

building, I look around and see other
faces, faces always here when I arrive
and still here when I leave. Faces of stu-
dents more diligent than me (and that’s
a lot of faces). Faces of the student clini-
cal program participants and the Moot
Court Board members. Faces of the stu-
dents who live in Woods Creek, for
whom the law school is a sitting room.
Faces of people who seemingly never
leave the building, with its books and
study carrels and Lexis machines, greet
me at every turn. Occasionally I have a
rarer, but no less valuable, sighting of
Lewis Hall royalty: a Law Review mem-
ber. Descended from her faculty-level
penthouse, she pokes a long nose into
the magazine lounge. With a sniff, she
retreats when she sees that someone has
already absconded with the latest People.

On this night, having just finished
skimming my sixth law review article on
the Unconstitutional Conditions Doc-
trine, I skulk from my reading room
table downstairs to the ARA Lounge.
Except for the sound of me beating my
cramped writing hand against my leg, it
is as quiet as Grant’s tomb. A lone Al-
derson Prison Practicum member stands

silently reading the political cartoons on
the Lawyer’s Guild bulletin board. He
has read them at least 50 times. He and
I, in blatant violation of the Speaking
‘Tradition, do not greet each other. We
have passed each other in the halls 20
times tonight and we are beyond the
point of nodding.

I look in the refrigerator; there is still
nothing there that belongs to me. I wish
that something would materialize. I am
afraid to eat the egg salad sandwiches in
the machine.

Finally, I change a dollar bill and
spend 55 cents on a Mountain Dew. I
start to pour the vile mixture of caffeine
and sugar down my throat, not even
tasting it, when I pass the TV lounge.
Two first-years are watching “Mr. Ed”
on Nick at Nite. I stare, eyes burning, at
the tube for a second before I head back
up the stairs to the reading room. I can’t
believe that anybody else is awake, and
I think of all the activity that will fill
these empty halls in the morning.

Mark Cathey °93L, former managing editor
of the N&L Law News, ts “couch-surfing”
while looking for work in the D.C. area.

35

  

umnt News

The 1993 W&L Open:
36 Holes, Three Winners

The first annual Washington and Lee
Open at the Cascades Course at The
Homestead produced a wide variety of
golf swings, golf shots, jubilation, exas-
peration, and a downright good time—
but no clear winner.

After 36 holes of competition, there
was a three-way tie for first. Wes Brown
51, Dave Redmond ’66, ’69L, and Jack
Vardaman ’62 all shot a gross score of
154 for their two-day total. Since no pro-
vision had been made for a tie-breaker,
all three were declared winners.

Mike Stachura ’86, assistant editor at
Golf Digest magazine, shot a 134 to cap-
ture the men’s low net honors.

“We were extremely pleased at the
great turnout and cross-section of alum-
ni who participated in the W&L Open,”
74, director of
alumni programs. “We plan to make this

says James D. Farrar Jr.

an annual event and hope that more and
more alumni will find time to join us.”
More than 90 golfers, friends, and
spouses gathered Friday, July 24, at the
Alumni House for a cocktail party and
barbecue to begin the tourney. Follow-
ing a hearty breakfast on campus on

Saturday, everyone headed over the

 

 

36

    

    

j
{clO¢ lai IS@ [707 abor 6). LO

WL linksters
champs Redmond and Vardaman; women’s
winners Hoss and Hoffman: Pearsons

Randal (90). Bo (58) and Bobby (85

mountain from Lexington to Hot
Springs. Golf on Saturday was followed
by a cocktail party and barbecue at The
Homestead’s Ski Chalet

began at 8 a.m. Sunday, and the tourna-

‘Tee times

ment concluded around 4 p.m.
According to Farrar, changes are

ent that

should make it even more enjoyable for

planned for next year’s ev
everyone. “We loved our experience at
the Cascades, but we are looking at
other locations nearby, such as The
Greenbrier and Wintergreen, in addition
to going back to the Cascades,” he says.
“We will also try to arrange a shotgun
start on Sunday to accommodate travel

plans and other considerations.”

 

 

 

The dates for the 1994 W&L Open

have not been set, but will be
announced in the Winter issue of the
Alumni Magazine.

Other winners in the W&L Open
included:

Saturday, July 24: men’s low gross and
e Redmond ’66, *69L;
Junie Bishop °41;
women’s low gross and low net, Eliza-
beth Hoffman; closest to the pin, Jack
Vardaman 62.

Sunday, July 25: men’s low gross, Wes
Brown °51 and Vardaman; men’s low
net, Mike Stachura ’86; women’s low
gross, Hoffman; women’s low net,
Hoffman and Shirley Hoss.

longest drive, Dav
men’s low

7,-

  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  

Alumni converged
wood Country Club in Vienn
for the second annual D.C.
Golf Tournament, ley
The winning foursome (kné
l-r) were Jay Meriwether
Jacobsen ’68, Ben Jarratt 8 ;
Caulley Derringer 86. Other
ni participants included -
Don Swagart ’80, Andy Fitz¢
‘79, Vernon Holleman ’58,
Schoenfeld 80, Gsorgai
82, Chip Arnold ’80, an nid
fied duffer, and Mike Fogarty

-

Mark Your Calendars

Washington and Lee’s 1994 Alumni
Reunion Weekend will take place May
12-14, not May 5-7 as is currently listed
bo all University calendars.

Confusion over the dates of Alumni
Weekend arose in part because May 1,
994, falls on a Sunday and Alumni

|
Weekend—traditionally the second
weekend In May—frequently coincides

with Mother’s Day, which is May 8.

W&L’s Alumni Weekend usually
draws more than 1,000 people to
Lexington, making it the largest alumni
gathering each year.

The W&L communications office
will send a revised calendar of events
free of charge by calling (703) 463-8460.

y
~~

“Brat

l” participant Giddy Dyer.

Another Full House
For Alumni College ‘93

The 12th annual Alumni College
brought record numbers of alumni and
spouses back to Washington and Lee for
its four summer programs: “Brain and
Mind” (30 attendees), Civil War Bio-
graphies” (44), China: The Dragon and
the Square” (60), and “The Heroic Age
in Greece” (84). In its summer travel
Outings, 53 people went rafting down
the Colorado River, while 75 toured
"The Classical World of the Aegean.”

Next year promises to be even big-
set, according to director of special pro-
Srams Robert P. Fure. “At least half of
Our participants are previous attendees,”
Ne says. The current Alumni College
Champions, with 23 campus or travel
Programs under their belts, are Heather
and Hardin Marion "‘Ooy SOkn

Jerry Maatman ’78; Bob Pinck °42 (accepting for his brother, th

 

Four More Feted in Hall of Fame Feast

Washington and Lee inducted four of its greatest athletes into the Athletic Hall of
Fame at a banquet Sept. 24 in Evans Dining Hall. The evening was a celebration of
the men’s accomplishments and a reminder of the vital role that athletics played in

shaping their W&L experience. The inductees were three-time lacrosse All-American
Ted Bauer ’74; W&L’s first All-American golfer, Jerry Maatman °’78; standout swim-
mer Gil Meem °38; and all-around athlete Dick Pinck °41, inducted posthumously.

w

uy
aK

b

 

! Lee are (seated, [-r):
Dick Pinck °41); Gil
Meem °38: and Ted Bauer ’74. Shown standing (1-r) are WEL dr of athletics Michael
Walsh; Howard Dobbins ’42L, who presented Pinck; Bert Meem °72, who presented his father;

Skeet Chadwick ’74, who presented Bauer; and director of alumni programs Jim Farrar °74.

Hall of Fame inductees following ceremonies Sept. 24 at Washington a

Absent from photo ts Buck Leshe ’49, who was the presenter for Maatman.

iy at 2 See
eae hy ot

 

Continuing a Hall of Fame tradition, W@L’s lacrosse alumni gather for a photo followin;

induction ceremonies. Shown seated (l-r) are 1989 inductee Skip Lichtfuss °74; trustee and
1992 inductee Bill Clements ’50; 1993 inductee Ted Bauer ’74; Skeet Chadwick '74; and party
crasher Stan Wilson. Shown standing (l-r) are Don Carroll ’76; Geoff Brent ’81; alumni
director Jim Farrar ’74; Tom Rogers ’73; Sam Englehart ’73; David Warfield °75; Ken Seal

74; Bryan Chasney ’74; and Chip 1 ompkins °73.

37

Creating Class Unity

In dealing with alumni from every
generation, I often ask myself and oth-
ers, what facets of W&L would tie
alumni from the classes of 1943, 1968,
and 1993 together? Although there are a
variety of answers, General Lee’s legacy
of excellence, honor, and tradition
comes immediately to mind as the
strongest unifying element of Washing-
ton and Lee. It is these three values,
precisely because they tie all alumni
together, which form the foundation of
the Alumni Association. The three-part
goal of the Alumni Association is to pur-
sue the goals of academic excellence,
preserve the University’s heritage and
traditions, and develop and maintain
close and continuous relationships with
alumni. Put simply, the Alumni Associa-
tion encourages alumni to work together
to preserve the essence of W&L.

To be sure, there are many unifying
factors at Washington and Lee—the
Greek system, athletic teams, singing
groups, and religious and political orga-
nizations to name a few, but near the
bottom of this list is one’s class. Unfor-
tunately, after leaving W&L, many of
these unifying forces lose their impor-
tance and identity. Only one’s class
remains fairly constant throughout the
years. For this reason, we on the staff of

 

38

the Alumni Office believe strong class
unity is an important element in main-
taining a unified alumni association.
Currently, postgraduate class unity is
pursued primarily through the Annual
Fund and class agent system. Five-star
class reunions serve as a marking point
of class unity, and offer insight to the
relative strengths of various returning
classes; however, with the exception of
the 25th and 50th reunion classes, most
of the remaining classes need to be
“jump-started” to promote optimal
reunion attendance.

The Class Officers Program was cre-
ated to provide W&L’s alumni classes
with ongoing continuity, organization,
and communication during the five
years between class reunions. Strong
class unity depends on consistent com-
munication and well-planned goals both
from the fund-raising and reunion stand-
point. The class agent handles commu-
nication for the Annual Fund. The
newly created class chairman is charged
with keeping intra-class communication
alive between the five-year reunions,
but will also maintain some vehicle of
communication that goes beyond the
blanket approach of the A/umni Maga-
zine, or the solicitation of a class agent.

The class chairman will compile and
oversee the publication of a class news-

letter at least twice a year that will cover

 

a

some of the more interesting happen-
ings in the class that may or may not be
covered in the Class Notes S€Ction of
the Alumni Magazine (such as who saw
whom at what beach, etc.), In addi

tion,
the newsletter will be used to distribute
information and ideas about upcoming

reunions and encourage feedback from a
large percentage of the class.

The class chairman and class agent
will also work together to Pursue the
long- and short-term goals of the Uni-
versity and Alumni Association. These
goals may take the form of monetary
contributions, alumni volunteers at the
chapter or class level, participation in
alumni events both on and off campus,
and increased correspondence With
classmates through the class newsletter
and A/umni Magazine. A unified, cohe-
sive class contributes to the strength of
the University and the Alumni Associa-
tion by encouraging more people to pre-
serve the excellence, honor, and tradi-
tion of W&L through reunions, the
Annual Fund, and their everyday lives,
The Class Officers Program is designed
to focus the goals of the Alumni Associa-
tion through its individual classes and
provide the necessary leadership to
bring W&L’s goals to fruition.

Robert W.H. Mish °76
Associate Alumni Director

  
 
   
   
  

Members of the Cl
25th reunion comm
on campus in Septembe
for next May’s big doing
ington. Seated (I-r) are
Johnson, Alan Tomlin,
chairman Phil Norwood, F
well, Mark Eaker, Don Sha
Bart Goodwin. Shown :
are John Simmons, Jol
Larry Boetsch, Mike Klir
Chittum, Billy Ball, Alan L
Higgins, Rick McMillan, T
ger, and Tom Atkins. (Cla:
in attendance but not pict
Lee Bivins, Lee Halford, ¢
Winter.) =

     
  
   
   
   

 

“dD with Wick

Cart pu

Vellin ng a joint outing for
thi Bi 1-Rock Lig ham, and
Row kl ters at Skylark on
Aug. rass provided the
enter? rbecue outing was
enjoye tlumni and friends.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cuml hapter president James
Shoen L, (left) welcomes fellow
doubl r Charlie Beall ’56, ’591
and A to the Cumberland chap
ler's G t welcome reception and
dinner wll was also among th
man) made it to Lexington for
Home ities in October.

 

Wees England: Win Phillips ’86

/ . eas
CENT 1 MacCachran 87 yuk i
Up % it the New England kickoff
. |

I the for Washington and Lee.

held § thy Boston Harbor Hot /.
Abou

Sity 1

and triends of the Untver

the event.

 

ame Skylark outing, recent graduaht
Molony °93 (left) chats it up with Bill
‘77 and his wile Sandra. Molony 1:5
in assistant accountant with

Varwick in Roanoke: Watson

j

» st “ots? - ; rr
WG S€CTECLGT \ or Se JET SON

7 ,
i'w ; , f7 ; j
5 . I A : . ’ i. f ) ‘ id € .

Going the Extra Mile: Tim Vanderver ’65
(right) of Potomac, Md., and his famih
hroke away from their summer travels lone
enough to drop in on the Pensacola (F la.)
chapter's cocktail buffet welcoming new stu
dents Aug. 17. Shown with Vanderver an

sons lim Ill °92 (left) and Ben °96.

 

Sons John °75 | 1 Jim Clapp °73 join

~

their father, the bert Clapp °30, at

the Cumber reception and dinner

for new students Aug. 11. Dr. and Mrs.

Sidney M.B. Coulling 111 °46 were the GUSTS
f honor at vent, and Dr. Coulling pri

ted his “Remembrances of Washington

tLe Past.”

 

[riple Crown Winners: Gray Castle ’53,

55L. and Parker Smith °53 have thet
hands full with the spoils from a most su
cessful year as Annual Fund agents for thi

>

Class of °53, taking (trom left) the Rich
mond lrophy, to the undergraduate clas
that oraduate ain the last 50 VEaTS with the

highest percentage of participation; the Was/

 

 

 

 

ington lrophy, to the undergraduate clas

that raised the larvest dollar total: and th

Faces in the Crowd: Mixing tt up at 1

John Newton Thomas Trophy, to the reunion . :
y
Pensacola outing Aug. 17 are(l-r) Chris Har

‘68, Adrianna Spain ’93L, Bob Hart ’63
and Jodee Hart. Chris and Jodee’

William Jr., is a sophomore at WEL. Bob’:
older son, Dantel, graduated in May.

SOW Douglas 18S @ member of the Cla yf 9

class (undergraduate and law) that increas
its Annual Fund givine by the larvest dollar
total from the year prior to the reunion. Th
last award was shared with law agent Bob
Banse ‘53L, absent when this photo was

taken at Class Agents Weekend in September.

39

 

Class Notes

5 2 7

Winson C. Barker

reports that he celebrated his 90th
birthday last February. Barker and
his wife, Isabel, have enjoyed com-
ing back to W&L for every Home-
coming since 1987.

28

John B. Ecker
lives in Potomac, Md., with his
grandson, John McManus "91.

30

Virgil C. Jones

has had a number of books pub-
lished including: Ranger Mosby, The
Hatfields and the McCoys, Gray Ghosts
and Rebel Raiders, Eight Hours Before
Richmond, Birth of Liberty, The Civil
War at Sea (three volumes) and
Roosevelt's Rough Riders. As a NASA
employee, Jones wrote the official
report for the moon landing, Log of
Apollo 11.

©

Irving E. Dobbs

reports that although he is no longer
taking extended trips to Europe or
in a motor home around the United
States, he is still going on short
cruises and driving a few hundred
miles to visit his grandchildren.
Dobbs lives in Vincentown, N.J.

D. George Price

has been retired for 20 years from
his position as head of the occupa-
tional research program of the U.S.
Navy. He is also retired from the
U.S. Naval Reserves, where he
served as an officer. Lately Price has
been serving as a “grandfather
image” on a volunteer basis at a
church nursery school. He lives in
Chevy Chase, Md.

9.
36

Walter T. Lawton Jr.

maintains a full practice in psycho-

analysis in Rutherford, N.J. He is

also dean of the Council of Leaders

of the American Ethical Union and

part-time leader of the Queens
(N.Y.) Ethical Society.

JS

Edward F. Kaczka
is retired and living in
Mountainside, N.].

Dr. Luther J. Roberts
is retired from practicing medicine.
His granddaughter, Claire Dudley,
graduated from W&L in June. She
was on the women’s swim team all
four years while at W&L.

R. Carleton Sharretts Jr.

has been an attorney for 50 years.
He is a former vice president of the
Maryland State Bar Association and
a former Maryland delegate to the
American Bar Association House of
Delegates. In addition, Sharretts is a
fellow of the American Bar
Association.

Vernon T. Strickler

is second vice president of the
Mercury Lions Club in Hampton,
Va. He is the founder and president
of the Strickler Dwyer Agency Inc.,
a general insurance agency. Strickler
is also a past chairman of the
Fellowship of Deacons of the First
Baptist Church in Newport News.

39

Dr. Martin C. Cassett

was honored as Man of the Year by
B’nai B’rith in Atlantic City, N.J., on
June 6, 1993. He is still recuperating
from an automobile accident in June
1992 at his home in Margate, N.].

Garret Hiers Jr.

is a volunteer driver with the Meals
on Wheels program. He has been
volunteering for the past two and a
half years and says that he finds it
extremely rewarding.

Dr. Benjamin R. Lawton

has been a theology teacher and pas-
tor for 53 years. He resumed teach-
ing at age 75 at Howard Payne
University’s School of Christianity
in Corpus Christi, Texas. His wife,
Patty, died after 50 years of mar-
riage.

4]

Richard M. Herndon

and his wife, Virginia, celebrated
their 50th wedding anniversary in
April. Dick reports that their chil-
dren took the Herndons on a four
day trip to San Antonio to celebrate
the occasion. Their grandson, Abbas
W. Samii °87, flew in from England
for the party.

Dr. William B. Mize

and his wife, Mary Jane, have
moved back to Sherman, Texas,
after living in Florida for 17 years
following his retirement. Mize says
that they miss Florida, but they are
happy to be back in Texas , closer to
their children.

Arthur C. Smith Jr.

lives in Washington D.C., where he
volunteers with Goodwill Industries
and other charities in the area.

‘46

Donald 8. Hillman

has been retired for a year and a half
from his job as vice president and
director of Multimedia Communi-
cations with HASCO, an interna-
tional health care corporation. He
and his wife, Enid, have thoroughly
enjoyed Alumni College programs
such as the trips to the Danube
River, Central Europe and most
recently, Egypt. His present activi-
ties include a cable TV committee,
chairing a community government
access channel and a “masochistic”
golf game. The Hillmans live in
Scarsdale, N.Y.

Edmund S§. (Ted) Willis

is retired and takes many trips
throughout the country by R.V. He
has been in touch with several class-
mates including Woody McClin-
tock, Press Mead, John Short, and
Barry Tome. They are all making
plans to return to Lexington for
their 50th reunion in 1996,

48L

Richard W. Lowery

has built a cottage in Kill Devil
Hills, on the Outer Banks of North
Carolina. He plans to retire from
practicing law at the end of this year
and spend his time fishing and
enjoying his grandchildren.

9

49
Robert A. Totty Jr.
reports that his handicap is going up
faster than the years and that he had
a wonderful visit with classmate Bill
Chipley last spring.

49,

James L. Dow

lives in Alto, N.M. He reports that
he is semi-retired and divides his
time between the ski run and the
fishing lake.

"50

James T. Trundle

is active in commercial real estate in
South Jersey. He lives in Cherry
Hill, N.J.

> al

51
Edward P. Bassett
was awarded the Freedom Forum
medal for his achievement as an aca-
demic administrator on August 12 at
the convention of the Association
for Education in Journalism and
Mass Communication in Kansas
City, Mo. He is director of the
University of Washington School of
Communications in Seattle.

_

Samuel D. Eggleston Jr.

is still practicing law and reports
he is trying to figure out how to
stop. All four of his children are

ried and he has three £randsons col
of whom are the children of M 7
Dudley Eggleston ’821, a

that

Richard E. Whitson IH

retired from the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce in June 1992. Last April,
Whitson and his wife, Doris, toured
Russia and the Ukraine with the
W&L Alumni College.

ah

Horace W. Dietrich Jr.

is chief executive officer of L&E
Property Management Inc., a divi-
sion of SPP-LET International
North America. The corporation
specializes in high-rise office build-
ing management in the United
States. Dietrich lives in Del Mar,
Calif., with his wife, Nancy,

The Hon. Harold N. Hill Jr.
is the chief judicial officer and
senior vice president of Judicial
Resolutions Inc. in Atlanta.

Paul D. Weill

is retired and living in Weatogue,
Conn. He still does some consulting
work for his former employer,
Structured Benefits Inc.

Soe

James T. Trundle
See °50.

5 —
53
Finley M. (Marv) Bobbitt

is retired and living in Melbourne,
Fla.

C. Randall Bradley

reports that he has been in new
truck sales with Dallas Peterbilt for
15 years. Since 1986, Bradley has
been working with the refuse com-
panies. He says that after surviving
the cycles of the highway truck
industry, he decided that trash
“would be forever.” Bradley and his
wife of 35 years, Jacquelyn, are the
proud grandparents of five.

Beverly G. Stephenson

is practicing law in Fairfax, Va. He
has three children and nine grand-
daughters.

535i

Edward L. Oast Jr.

was recently elected a fellow of the
American Bar Foundation. Oast has
been with the Norfolk law firm of
Williams, Kelly and Greer since
1958. He concentrates his practice

 

in the areas of civil litigation, health
i .
care and railroad law.

’ 5 4

Dr. Herwig R. (Johnny)
Brandstetier

is head of the action committee for
humanitarian aid in the chamber of
commerce of Styria, Austria, coordi-
nating aid transports to refugees in
Croatia and Bosnia/Herzegowina.

Christopher Collins

is a competitive rower and recently
set the local record for men of all
ages and the world record for men
over 60 in the 30-minute ERG
indoor rowing event. He and '
Richard Glenn ‘71 are brokers with
Royer & McGavock in Charlottes-
ville, Va. Since 1970, Collins has
also served as Master of Revels and
producer of Elizabethan feasts and
festivals and of Bacchanalian wine
feasts at the Boar’s Head Inn in
Charlottesville and for private
groups elsewhere.

Sedgwick L. Moss

is serving on the Federal Grand Jury
in Alexandria, Va., during 1993. He
says that he is looking forward to his
big 40th reunion in the spring.

David R. Murphey Ill
received the Champions of Higher
Independent Education in Florida
award. He is a member of the
Bethune-Cookman College board of
trustees and a | ampa financier.

Kenneth 1. Van Cott Jr.

is retired from his job as executive
vice president of Inn America Corp.,
motel and commercial real estate
developers. Van Cott encourages
lower handicaps by greater play with
other retired friends.

’
55
J. Hardin Marion
is serving a three-year term as
Fourth District representative on
the American Bar Association
Standing Committee on the Federal
Judiciary. The 15-member commit-
tee is responsible for the prelimi-
nary investigations of any prospec-
ve nominee for a federal judge-
ship, and Marion has participated in
four investigations so far, including

new Supreme Court Justice Ruth
Bader Ginsberg.

56

Dr. Frank S. Pittman III
1S the author of Man Enough: Fathers,
Sons and the Search for Masculinity,
Which was published in June by
utnam Books. He continues to
Write a regular movie review column
in the Family Therapy Networker and
“monthly advice column for men in
ew Woman magazine. Pittman still

has his private psychiatric practice
in Atlanta where he lives with his
wife of 33 years, Betsy.

Dr. William S. Tunner

was elected governor-at-large of the
Virginia chapter of the American
College of Surgeons. He is a practic-
ing urologist in Richmond. Tunner
and his wife, Sallie, live at Braedon
Farm in Manakin-Sabot, Va. Their
son, Billy, graduated from W&L in
1990.

SOL

Beverly G. Stephenson
See °53.

’
Dik

Benjamin N. Hoover

recently retired after 35 years as a

cryptosystem designer, counter-

intelligence officer and executive

with the National Security Agency,

U.S. Department of Defense. He

lives in Silver Spring, Md.

Paul R. Speckman Jr.

has been managing several ocean
front properties and the family trust
for the past few years. Recently, he
has been spending most of his time
learning to operate a personal com-
puter. Speckman lives in Leucadia,
Calif.

G. Burt Tyler

is president of Gordon Tyler Co., a
62-year-old property and casualty
insurance agency. He is also on the
board of directors of the Miss
Oklahoma pageant and the
Downtown Tulsa Kiwanis Club.
‘Tyler spent two weeks last fall in
Hong Kong and Bangkok.

’
58

Dr. Donald R. Fowler

was named chief medical officer of

Augusta Hospital Corp. He has

retired from his active surgical prac-

tice after 20 years in order to take on

the new responsibilities of the

office. Fowler lives in Staunton, Va.

Dr. J. Gill Holland

was recently awarded a $3,000
National Endowment for the
Humanities study grant to research
his project titled “Democracy and
Its Enemies: How Could It Have
Happened? Traditional Cultural
Roots of the Demonstrations in
China in the Spring of 1989.”
Holland is an English professor at
Davidson College.

Avery B. Juhring

writes that he’s sorry that he missed
the class reunion in May, but he has
been back and forth between
France and his home in West
Newbury, Vt., on business.

Remsbure Drive

When residents of Abingdon, Va., cruise through down-
town—and there’s not a traffic jam—they can thank Brent
Remsburg °38.

Remsburg, Abingdon’s town manager for 10 years, was hon-
ored in June by having a new city street named after him.
Remsburg Drive, Abingdon’s “second” Main Street, was offi-
cially opened at a ribbon-cutting ceremony in June. The new
street should improve traffic flow in the historic town of 7,000
by eliminating congestion on the town’s main thoroughfare

The street project was one of Remsburg’s many accomplish-
ments during his tenure as Abingdon’s town manager from
1972 to 1981. “Those 10 years were the greatest of my life,” he
says, and his neighbors obviously agree. “The town ran like a
fine-tuned clock when he was in charge,” says Abingdon resi-
dent and fellow W&L alumnus Bob Vinyard ’70L.

Remsburg was born in Lynchburg, Va., but his family
moved to Lexington when he was 1 year old. His father was a
stonemason, and Remsburg lived in Lexington until 1940. He
attended Washington and Lee from 1934 to 1936. From W&L,
he went to work at the quarry at Timber Ridge, then to
Martinsville and service in World War II. After the war he
attended Virginia Polytechnic Institute and then embarked on
a 41-year career in local government. After working in the
Virginia towns of South Boston and Herndon, he moved to
Abingdon in 1972.

“Abingdon is the oldest town west of the Blue Ridge
Mountains,” Remsburg explains. The town was chartered in
1778 when Williamsburg was the capital of Virginia, and the
Barter Theatre is one of the historic town’s main attractions.

Before Remsburg Drive was constructed, traffic traveled
down a gravel passage, filled with potholes, behind the Main
Street businesses. The 30-ft.-wide street, built at a cost of
$120,000, includes two lanes, parking on one side, left- and
right-turn lanes, sidewalk, and curb and gutter—in short,
everything you'd be looking for in a street. Business and prop-
erty owners donated the right of way for street construction.

The new street had been in the planning since World War
II, according to Remsburg: “It had been on people’s minds for
years and years and years.” During his tenure as town manager,
he pressed on with the project, acquiring some of the right of
ways. “I think we went through six town managers to finally
get this going!”

But Remsburg’s work was not forgotten, and once the street
was finished, he was remembered accordingly. “This is the
greatest honor that can be bestowed on someone in the city
management profession,” current town manager G.M.
Newman told the Bristol Herald Courier. “\n Brent’s case, it is
well-deserved.” —By Evan Atkins

41

Dr. Peter T. Montgomery

is a full-time professor at the
University of Colorado School of
Medicine. He lives in Evergreen,
Colo.

SEL

J. Hardin Marion
See 55.

59
Thomas M. Schmidt
retired from teaching “at-risk” high
school students in Albuquerque,
N.M., last year after he became ill.
Schmidt asks that his W&L friends
drop him a line at his home.

60

Charles D. Aiken Jr.

was recently promoted to senior vice
president at Scott & Stringfellow
Inc. in Richmond. Aiken joined the
brokerage firm in 1975.

Malcolm B. Burton

was admitted to the bar of the U.S.
Supreme Court in May. He is man-
aging director and senior vice presi-
dent of Chubb and Son Inc., where
he has worked for the past 30 years.
Burton and his wife of 35 years, Ray
Benner, live in Chatham Township,
N.J. They have five children and
four grandchildren.

Barry M. Fox

has his own architecture firm, Barry
M. Fox and Associates in New
Orleans. The firm handles residen-
tial and commercial architecture.

OOL,

Paul R. Speckman Jr.
See °57.

;
6]

Roy Carpenter

has been doing consulting work in

southeast Asia for the International

Atomic Energy Agency, a branch of

the United Nations, for the past sev-

eral years.

William R. Johnston

is a 1993 recipient of the financial
community’s Good Scout Award.
Johnston is senior managing director
of LaBranche & Co. in New York.

62

R. King Milling

reigned as king of the Carnival Rex
during Mardi Gras last February.
Milling has been a member of the
Rex organization for 25 years. As
king, he led the group’s parade and
presided over the Rex Ball. The
one-day king is president of
Whitney National Bank in New
Orleans 365 days of the year.

42

George H. Van Sciver

is the owner and president of
Hughes Railway Supplies Inc., man-
ufacturer’s representatives serving
the railroad industry on the East
Coast.

‘63

Dr. R. Thomas Edwards
visited Lexington last spring, first
for his 30th class reunion and then
again for son Evan’s graduation.
Edwards lives in Roanoke.

Dr. Thomas D. Edwards
lives in Phoenix, Ariz., with his wife,
Donna.

J. Holmes Morrison

was recently elected chairman of the
board of trustees at the University of
Charleston in West Virginia, a pri-
vate, liberal arts university with an
emphasis on the health sciences and
a 1,600-student body.

Dr. Hamlet T. Newsom
is chairman of plastic surgery at
Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas.

Thomas N. Rains

is senior minister at Shades Valley
Presbyterian Church in
Birmingham, Ala.

Anthony D. Schlesinger

is a partner with the law firm of
Willkie, Farr & Gallagher in New
York City.

Dr. J. Brantley Sydnor

is president-elect of the Virginia
Society of Otolaryngology- Head
and Neck Surgery.

63L

Malcolm B. Burton
See 60.

‘64

John M. Allgood

was elected president of the All-
American Daylily Selection Council
for 1993-94. The council is a non-
profit education/research group
seeking to find top performing
daylilies.

Philip S.E. Booth

reports that in addition to his soloist
duties with the Metropolitan Opera,
he has begun doing arts administra-
tion work with the New York
Association for New Americans.
NYANA is a large refugee resettle-
ment organization that works with
many immigrants who have back-
grounds in the performing arts.

The Hon. James W. Haley Jr.
is a Circuit court judge in the 15th
judicial circuit of Virginia in
Fredericksburg. He and his wife,
Ann, have two daughters and one
son. Haley reports that his youngest
daughter, Shelley, is intrigued by a

recently received brochure about
W&L.

Robert A. Paddock

became a grandfather for the second
time when his daughter had a baby
girl in Portland, Ore., on March 22.
Paddock lives in Naperville, Ill.

Leslie C. Rucker Jr.

and his wife, Gail, are the proud par-
ents of Susan ’93. They will cele-
brate their 25th wedding anniver-
sary this fall.

65

F. Anderson Stone

of Richmond was appointed senior
portfolio manager, fixed income
securities, with Aon Advisors, and
assistant vice president with Aon
Advisors’ affiliate, the Life
Insurance Co. of Virginia.

OSL

1. Clinton Miller

is a country and western singer and
also holds a seat in the Virginia
House of Delegates. He and his
wife, Linda, live in Woodstock, Va.

‘66

Joseph H. Framptom

was elected president of the
Kentucky Bankers Association, suc-
ceeding W&L classmate Buckner
Woodford. Framptom is president
and CEO of the Paducah (Ky.) Bank
and ‘Trust Co.

Michael M. Hash

is senior staff associate to the House
Committee on Energy and
Commerce. His principal responsi-
bilities include staffing the health-
care reform plan of the Clinton
administration.

Dr. Donald J. Lineback

has been named vice president for
development at Furman University
in Greenville, S.C. Lineback had
served as dean of development at
Rhodes College in Memphis,
‘Tenn., for the past 12 years.

Lewis N. Miller Jr.

was recently appointed chief execu-
tive of Central Fidelity Banks Inc.
Miller also serves as president of the
holding company.

‘66L

Baxter L. Davis

was inducted into the American
College of Trial Lawyers last
October in London.

67

Thomas J. Hardin Il

has a daughter, Maria, who is a
freshman at W&L. He also reports
that he has been listed in the 1993-

  
 

94 edition of Who's Who in the
and Southwest. Hardin is presi
A.T. Management Inc., a reg
investment advisor.

South
dent of
istered

Capt. Guyte P. McCord l/l
See Capt. William S. Wildrick 67

Capt. William §. Wildrick
is the commander of the Naval
Special Warfare (SEAL) unit ar
MacDill Air Force Base in Tam
Fla. His former roommate from
W&L, Capt. Guyte McCord ‘67
commands the naval intelligence
unit at the same base. Both naval
reserve units are a part of the
United States Special Operations
Command, which is one of only 10
unified commands within the
Defense Department.

John H. Zink II

is a partner with the law firm of
Venable, Baetjer & Howard in
‘Towson, Md. Zink specializes in
civil litigation.

67L

J. Holmes Morrison
See '63.

‘68L

Roy J. Morgan

is a partner with the law firm of
Morgan and Johnson. His focus is on
personal injury cases. Morgan is also
associate editor of the Academy of
Florida Trial Lawyers journal.

Harvey B. Savitt

lives in Centerport, N.Y., with his
wife and three children. He has a
private practice in Commack, N.Y.
and is an adjunct instructor at both
New York Institute of Technology
and the Judge Advocate General’s
School in Charlottesville, Va.

5

69
Dr. Jeffrey P. Cropsey
has returned to the United States
after seven years in Europe. He
lives in Pensacola, Fla., with his
wife, Lee, and their son, Matt.
Cropsey is head of the Defense
Department’s worldwide academic
testing program.

Thomas P. Mitchell

and his wife, Mary Frances, recently
opened the Pleasant Valley Coun-
seling Center, specializing in adoles-
cent and family psychotherapy.
They live in Hyde Park, N.Y.

‘70

The Rev. Richard W. Capron
received his doctorate in philosophy
from Drew University in October
1992. The subject of his dissertation
was “The Social Structure of
Freedom: Hegalian Conceptual

 

Affinities with Libertarian

Theology:
seuart ©. Fauber

eceived the Navy Commendation
Medal for meritorious service as a
ommanding officer at the Naval
c oT. ;
Reserve Center in Staunton, Va.,
where he is assigned as an active
Navy reservist. Fauber lives in
Lynchburg, Va.

L. Clarke Jones l/l
of Richmond reports that his oldest

daughter, Amy, is a freshman at
W&L.

Dr. Robert a Schooley :

has joined the Scientific Advisory
Board of Vertex Pharmaceuticals
Inc. He is a leading clinician and
researcher in the field of virology
with particular expertise in HIV and
AIDS. Schooley is director of the
infectious disease division of the
University of Colorado Health
Sciences Center, professor of medi-
cine at the university and staff
physician for the Denver Veterans
Affairs Medical Center.

Robert H. Yevich

is an executive vice president with
Tucker Anthony Inc., and is in
charge of the retail side of the firm.
He and his wife, Bettylou, have two
children, Courtney and Turner.

TOL

John H. Zink 1ll
See '67.

;
/1

Marcus E. Bromley

is a partner with T'rammel Crow

Residential in Atlanta. He is respon-

sible for multi-family development

in the South. Bromley and his wife,

Nancy, have two sons, Eric and

Tyler. The family lives in Atlanta.

A. Cash Koeniger

reports that he divides his time
between teaching history to about
120 VMI cadets each semester, his
family, and his turn-of-the-century
country home near Brownsburg, Va.

Hartley E. Roush

'S working as in-house counsel and
business administrator for
Marcellus. Wright, Cox & Smith, an
architecture firm in Richmond.

The Rev. Jeffrey B. Spence
feceived his doctor of ministry
degree from Virginia Union Univer-
Sity’s School of Theology. His doc-
toral thesis was on ethical decision
making in non-profit organizations.
He lives in Midlothian, Va.

Richard J. Stelzer

is the author of two books: How fo
‘ue a Winning Personal Statement for

Graduate and } ’rofessional School and

The Star Treatment. Stelzer lives in
Los Angeles.

Calvert S. Whitehurst
continues to be public affairs man-
ager in the Washington (D.C.) office
of ‘Textron, Inc. He also was a dele-
gate to the Virginia state Republican
convention in Richmond last June.

Dr. William C. Wilkinson

was awarded tenure at Governors
State University in University Park,
Il]. Wilkinson is a professor of mar-
keting and has been at the school
since 1987. He lives in Crete, III.

re
John P. Mello

lives in Rochester, Mass., where he
was recently elected town assessor.
He is a state licensed appraiser and
was also recently named a designat-
ed appraiser by the Veterans
Administration. Mello is senior asso-
ciate appraiser of the Common-
wealth Real Estate Group, a com-
mercial property appraisal firm, and
maintains the John P. Mello Co., an
independent residential appraisal

practice in southeast Massachusetts
and Cape Cod.

David D. Stone

is a stockbroker with William Blair
& Co. in Chicago. He lives in
Hinsdale, Ill., with his wife, Meg,
and their three children, Jennifer,
Matthew and James.

73

John W. Folsom

of Columbia, S.C., has been named
president and CEO of the Keenan
Co., which is engaged in diversified
commercial real estate activities.

Richard H. Middleton Jr.

was recently elected parliamentarian
of the Association of Trial Lawyers
of America. He is a partner with the
Savannah (Ga.) law firm of Middle-
ton & Mixson.

Dr. Robert L. Munt Jr.

is a pediatrician in private practice
with two other doctors in Raleigh,
N.C. He and his wife have three
children, Chris 13, Helen 9, and
Daniel 2.

5
/4

John L. Kirkpatrick Jr.

is vice president of sales for Wax
Works/Video Works, an audio and
video distributor of entertainment
products. He is raising his 13-year-
old daughter, Kelsey, and is also
freelancing in television and radio
commercials.

Geoffrey N. Nolan

reports that despite the great real
estate depression, his mortgage
banking firm, Wilson and Nolan, is

Sugar Daddy

For a guy that by his-own admission was “not big enough to play
college football,” Jay Kern ’73 has become a big player in the world of
college football. As president of the USF&G Sugar Bowl, a position
he was elected to last February, Kern has been on a whirlwind tour
that began with the start of last year’s football season and won’t let up
until New Year’s Day 1994, the 60th anniversary of the second-oldest
college football bowl game (only the Rose Bowl is older). He was
nominated for membership to the organization 15 years ago and since
joining the executive committee has seen his workload increase
tremendously.

“I’m in the Sugar Bow! office almost daily and I’m traveling two
to three times a month,” says Kern, who also manages to find time to
work as a partner for the law firm of Simon, Peragine, Smith and
Redfearn in New Orleans. Back in the summer, he spent four straight
weeks in New Orleans—“and | think that was the longest consecutive
period I’ve been in town since last year.”

Kern is in charge of appointing members to the group’s 30 com-
mittees and oversees the
committee that selects
the team that will play
the Southeastern Confer-
ence champion. As such
he travels across the
country to conference
meetings, Bowl Coalition
meetings and to games
throughout the season.
His journeys brought
him to Washington and
Lee last fall—but he was
in the area, alas, to watch

Miami play against

 

Virginia Tech.
The selection pro-

Kern calls the plays for the Sugar Bowl.

cess has been made
much easier by the
advent of the Bowl Coalition, which debuted last season. The
Coalition has been the target of some debate, but Kern is a big fan. “I
think everybody’s happy,” he says. “It allows us to wait until the end
of the season and put together more appropriate matchups.” USF&G
Sugar Bowl officials were certainly smiling with the results of the
Coalition last year when SEC champion Alabama, No. 2 nationally,
played top-ranked Miami. (Alabama, of course, upset Miami 34-13 to
win the national championship.)

While each school received more than $4 million for participating
in the game, the big winner was the city of New Orleans. “The game
was started as an economic development event for the city,” says
Kern, “and it’s still done as a civic endeavor for the city and the com-
munity.” In an economic impact study conducted last year, the
University of New Orleans found that the game deposited $98 million
into the local economy. On top of the money is civic pride, and that’s
what motivates Kern, who also serves on the executive committee of
the New Orleans Area Council of the Chamber of Commerce. “I real-
ly enjoy participating in the community and helping the community,”
says Kern. One added attraction to last year’s game found players from
both teams visiting children in area hospitals and distributing dolls
donated by a toy company.

It’s that type of activity that makes him beam, but he also has to
get ready to play ticket broker. Asked if former W&L classmates and
friends call him up asking for tickets, he responds rather quickly.

“Absolutely.” —By Brian Logue

Explaining Bill's Lax Bill

As you know, Congress recently passed and the President
signed into law a new tax bill that will affect each and every
one of us. One aspect of the tax bill relates to something called
alternative minimum tax (AMT) and a now-permanent
exemption from this tax of gifts to charitable organizations like
Washington and Lee of appreciated assets (such as stocks and
real estate) and tangible personal property (antiques and art).
What this means is that you can claim as a charitable income
tax deduction the full fair market value of the assets you
donate to W&L with no penalty accruing even if you happen
to have a particularly low cost basis in those assets.

By conveying ownership of the assets to W&L directly, you
completely avoid the capital gains tax and now avoid AMT as
well. However, your ability to absorb the charitable income tax
deduction for gifts of appreciated assets remains limited to 30
percent of your adjusted gross income with a five-year carry-
over period available.

Gifts through income-retained arrangements such as chari-
table remainder trusts, the University’s Pooled Income Fund,
or charitable gift annuities also benefit from the AMT exemp-
tion. Although the charitable deduction that would accrue to
these types of gifts is based on a number of factors apart from
the market value of the assets contributed, the income genera-
tion and tax diminution benefits particular to each arrange-
ment are strengthened by the new tax law. As before, all
planned gifts can be tailored to meet your needs.

Although few people, especially W&L alumni and friends,
make gifts based on tax considerations alone, the new tax law
actually favors charitable giving. I believe it was Pascal who
once said that “the heart has its reasons which reason knows
not of.” Similarly, my experience with our alumni is that they
give from the heart, not from the head. Even though they may
be faced with the financial pressures of raising a family, buying
a home, or providing for a more comfortable or secure retire-
ment, many view stewardship of Washington and Lee—its
special values and traditions—as an integral part of their plan-
ning. It is nice that the tax laws now reinforce the indulgence
of one’s heart when it comes to W&L.

David R. Long
Director of Planned and Capital Giving

still prospering. Nolan is president
of the Atlanta-based firm and works
with three other alumni, Berke
Wilson °75, Harry Hall ’79 and
David Tyler ’83.

Robert M. Rainey

has been appointed to the S.C.
Water Resources Commission to
represent industrial interests. His
appointment runs until May 1996.
Rainey is Senior Environmental
Engineer of RMT Inc. in
Greenville.

John C. Wilson

has published two books: Virginia’s
Northern Neck, a Pictorial History and
Creek Peek Collection, a series of maps
locating 195 coves, rivers, etc. in
‘Tidewater, Va. He is also news edi-
tor at The Rappahannock Record in
Kilmarnock, Va.

Amos A. Workman

graduated from Erskine Theological
Seminary in Due West, S.C., with a
perfect 4.0 average. Workman also
holds a law degree from the
University of South Carolina. He is
now a Presbyterian minister in
Spartanburg, S.C.

74L

John F. Hansel

is an attorney with the Davidson
(N.C.) firm of Austin, DeArmon and
Merryman.

Beverly H. Wood

of Decatur, Ga., has been elected to
a two-year term on the Southern
Employees Benefit Conference.

’
45

John R. Embree

lives in Chicago with his wife of one

year, Dagmar. Embree is the inter-

national business manager for

Wilson Sporting Goods in Chicago,

meaning he controls the company’s

tennis ball sales around the world.

Donald D. Hogle

was recently promoted to vice presi-
dent at Chemical Bank in New
York. He has been at Chemical for
eight years, most recently as adver-
tising manager of its New York
banking group.

Louis A. LeLaurin Ill
established a new law firm in San
Antonio, Texas, last June. The firm,
LeLaurin, Emmett & Kessler, deals
mainly in the areas of creditors’
rights and business litigation.

James N. Overton

was elected councilman of District
14 in Jacksonville, Fla., last year.
Because the city and county govern-
ments in Jacksonville are consolidat-
ed, the Council has jurisdiction over
both entities.

’
76
Robert L. Amsler Jr.
and his wife, Julie, recently me J
into a house in Fauquier Coy,
Va., that Julie inherited from a
grandfather. The house parr}
burned in May 1992 and ch
lers spent the remainder of 19¢
the first part of 1993 overseeir
renovation. Amsler reports that th
are enjoying the country life,

  
   
 
    
 
 
  
    
    
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
    
 
    
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   

John A. Cocklereece Jr.
has joined the law firm of Welle. :
Jenkins, Lucas & Jenkins as ap y
ner. Cocklereece serves as cha;
of the N.C. Property Tax Comn

sion, a state-level group responsi}
for hearing appeals of Property t
assessments. He and his family liy
in Winston-Salem.

T. Hunt Hardinge WT
has four children between two an
10 years of age. He coaches socce
with the American Youth Soccer _
League, is a scoutmaster with t
Boy Scouts of America, and y
a sales manager with Statton Far
in Hagerstown, Md.

Dr. Harold R. Howe Jr.
has a private practice in thoracic ;
cardiovascular surgery. He lives |
Charlotte with his wife, Kathy, ar
their three children, Trey, Khaki
and Janie. In his spare time, Howe
enjoys farming and working on hi

tractor. é
1

Thomas P. Hudgins Jr.
was recently appointed head of th
upper school at Norfolk Academ
Norfolk, Va. =

M. Reed Morgan ;
is an officer with the San Diego >
Community Foundation.

Douglas R. Muir
was appointed treasurer of Oa
Homes Corp. He was previously —
employed by Price Waterhouse _
where he was an audit partner in
Charlotte office. Muir and his wi
Sidney, live in Greensboro, N,

Dr. Vernon E. O’Berry Jr.
is in his seventh year of general de:
tistry practice in Virginia Beach.

John T. Sadler Ill 7
lives in Aiken, S.C.,with his wife, 7
Susan, and their two children, J.T
and Callie. He is communications
director for Dogwood Stable, a!
ing syndicator of thoroughbred r
horses.

TOL

Richard H. Middleton Jr.
See °73.

Thomas L. Sansonetti
left his post as solicitor of the
Department of the Interior at the
end of the Bush administration. F

va
4

-

  

ed the law firm of Holland
and Hart in their Cheyenne (Wyo.)

ffice where he will be practicing
Se ousal resources, environmental

and business law.

has join

» M. Sorg
regory
e a solo law practice that he oper-

ates out of his rural home in

Franconia, N.H.

9 7 /

Michael J. Burns

is still doing research and develop-
ment work at AT&T Bell
Laboratories in Holmdel, N.J. He
recently presented a one-day tutori-
al on multi-media computing at a
conference in Amsterdam. He took
his second four-day vacation in two
years with classmate Radar Davis
and other friends where they
watched multiple minor league
baseball games and sampled the
offerings at as many as eight barbe-
cue joints per day. ‘Their most
recent expedition was to Tennessee
and Alabama. Burns is happy to
report that despite those trips, his
wife Wendy, still has not divorced
him. They have two children,
Kimberly and Steven.

Dr. Richard E. Campbell

is still teaching at Osaka
International University in Japan
where he has been working on a
research project concerning
Indonesian public sector efficiency.
Campbell was awarded a research
grant from Matsushita International
to conduct research in Indonesia.

William J. Kerr

is manager of information systems at
Tellabs in Lisle, Ill. He has three
children—Billy, Colleen, and
Kathryn—and is active in Boy
Scouts and other local activities.

Ferris B. Mack

will be attending Naval Reserve
Management School in New
Orleans. He is currently living and
working in New York.

John A. Magee

moved to Richmond in June with
his wife, Frances, and their three
children. Magee works for First
Union of Virginia.

;
78

Walter P. Benda

has moved to Japan with his wife,

Yoko and their two daughters, Mari

and Ema. Benda is the director of

marketing and administration for
itoku, a natural foods company

*pecializing in macrobiotic and tra-
ditional foods.

Mark k. Bennett

i . " .
Sin his fourth year as associate gen-
ral counsel at the New York

Mercantile Exchange. He has
become active in pursuing environ-
mental concerns with the Sierra
Club and has been developing a pro
bono legal program to provide legal
counsel to clients of the Manhattan
Center for Living, a healing center
for patients suffering from AIDS
and cancer.

A. Jeffrey Bird

is a partner practicing corporate
securities law with the Seattle firm
of Garvey, Schubert and Barer.

Alexander H. Bishop IV

is in his fourth year at Glenelg
Country School in Maryland where
he teaches social studies, coaches
soccer, and is the assistant director
of the summer camp.

Arthur R. Carmody IIl

lives in Shreveport with his wife,
Jacquie, and their five sons. He is a
vice president and manager with
Hibernia National Bank for the
northern Louisiana region.

Dr. Thomas K. Galvin II]

has a private practice in internal
medicine in Westminster, Md., and
is anxiously awaiting the new
healthcare reform package. Galvin
reports that he and his wife, Linda,
visited Lexington in February and
brought W&L ‘T-shirts home for
their three sons, Jack, ‘Thomas, and
Connor.

Henry C. Roemer Ill

is president-elect of the Forsyth
County (N.C.) Young Lawyers
Association for 1993-94. Roemer is
an attorney with the Winston-Salem
law firm of Petree Stockton. His
practice is concentrated in the areas
of business, antitrust, and intellectu-
al property litigation.

William G. Turner

has been promoted to associate pub-
lisher of Foreign Trade Magazine, an
international trade publication spe-
cializing in shipping and transporta-
tion. He lives in Alexandria, Va.

Steven C. Yeakel

of Helena, Mont., has been working
on issues involving state tax reform
and healthcare reform on the state
and federal level since leaving state
government at the close of the
Stevens administration. He has also
been reacquainting himself with his
wife, Beth, and their three children,
Katherine, Joe, and Sarah.

7TSL

Pamela Rogers Melton

has two children, Parker and
Chalmers. She is pursuing her
Master of Library Sciences degree
at Catholic University and doing
volunteer work. Melton recently
traveled to England, France, Spain,

and Disney World. She lives in
Alexandria, Va.

;
79
Matt Culberson
suffered chest and facial injuries
after falling 660 yards in an
avalanche on Mount Temple in
Banff, Canada, in August. His wife,
Julie, died as a result of the fall. The
Culbersons were profiled in the
Summer issue of the A/umni
Magazine.

Robert 8. (Casey) Gibb Ill
lives in Bethel, Pa., with his wife,
Lora, and their two children, Robert
IV and Patricia. He is employed by
Federated Investors.

Robert E. Thomas

received two awards from the
Monument Builders of North
America for having the best presen-
tation in news media relations and
also in special public relations pro-
jects.

Thomas A. Wiseman II]

works with the Nashville firm of
Gideon & Wiseman, which special-
izes in medical malpractice defense.
His wife, Liz ’81L, is not currently
practicing law. ‘The couple lives in
Nashville with their four children,
Allison, ‘Tom, Madeline, and Kate.

John A. Cocklereece Jr.
See °76.

Michael W. McLaughlin

was promoted to senior vice presi-
dent and director of the nationwide
hazardous substances division of
SCS Engineers. In his new role, he
will direct the technical activities of
10 offices of SCS Engineers with
respect to hazardous waste,
Superfund, and underground and
above-ground storage tank projects.
McLaughlin lives in Reston, Va.

’
SO

Thomas A. Lisk

lives in Richmond with his wife,

Anita, and their two children, Sarah
and Matthew. Lisk is an attorney

with Hazel & Thomas in Richmond.

Bret D. Lovejoy

and his wife, Sally, are restoring
their 1890 townhouse in Washing-
ton, D.C. Lovejoy visited classmate
Cove Geary while watching the
Final Four in New Orleans.

Maj. Mark D. Smith

is an assistant professor of National
Security Studies at the U.S. Military
Academy at West Point. Smith
hopes that his one-year-old son,
Hunter, will enter W&L in 2010.

Charles B. Strome Ill
earned a master’s degree in public
administration last January and was

named assistant city manager and
city coordinator of New Rochelle,
N.Y.

Peter B. Taylor

is business and finance director of
King Faisal School in Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia. The school is a western-
standard 1-12 grade school founded
by the philanthropic King Faisal
Foundation and chaired by HRH
Prince Saud Ali-Faisal, the Foreign
Minister.

SOL

Jacquelyn K. Boyden
is general counsel to Inova Health
System in Springfield, Va.

’
5]

Gerard L. Broccoli

is special projects officer for the

Army and Air Force Exchange

Service in Niirnburg, Germany. He

is responsible for the deactivations

of AAFES activities on closing

installations in Europe.

Claude B. (Chip) Colonna Jr.
was promoted to international mar-
keting manager for Kraft Food
Ingredients, a division of Philip
Morris. He lives outside Memphis
in Collierville, Tenn., with his wife,
Bonnie, and their three children,
Brad, Meagan, and Kelly.

Alfred R. Hintz

was recently made managing part-
ner at his law firm, O’Connor,
O’Connor, Hintz and Deveney in
Garden City, N.Y. He lives in
Sayville, N.Y., with his wife, Libby,
and their three children, Andrew,
Amy, and Shelby.

Ted M. Kerr Jr.

recently moved to Houston with his
wife, Lisa, and son, William, where
he is the director of asset manage-
ment for Drever Partners, a real
estate investment company.

A. William Mackie

is a bank fraud prosecutor with the
U.S. Department of Justice. He
recently tried a 5 1/2-month-long
bank fraud case in Florida. One of
the defendants was represented by
Murray M. Wadsworth °59. Mackie
lives in Rockville, Md., with his
wife, Linda, and their two daugh-
ters, Diana and Danielle.

John K. Saunders

has set up his own general law prac-
tice in Atlanta with an emphasis on
litigation.

J. Mark Turner

retired early from the U.S. Army as
a captain. He is a stockbroker for
A.C. Edwards and Sons in Gulfport,
Miss., and lives in Waveland with
his wife, Shelley, and their two chil-
dren, Blythe and Caleb.

OLL

The Rev. Charles F. Bahn Jr.
is associate pastor of National
Avenue Christian Church in
Springfield, Mo.

Trish M. Brown

was recently certified in business
bankruptcy by the American Bank-
ruptcy Board of Certification. A
partner in the Portland (Ore.) law
firm of Lane Powell Spears Luber-
sky, Brown lives in Scappoose, Ore.

82
Dr. Michael P. Bernot
is an orthopedic surgeon in Atlanta

and the assistant team physician for
the Atlanta Hawks basketball team.

J. Preston Covington Ill
recently became first vice president
and branch manager at the
Columbia (S.C.) office of Interstate
Johnson Lane. He and his wife,
Mary, have two daughters,
Cleveland and Mary.

John T. Daniel

is a partner in a consulting firm,
Cuester and Daniel in New York
City. The firm primarily advises
emerging growth companies and
assists them with equity financing.

Clifford T. (Kip) Gordon
lives in Louisville, Ky., where he
works for PepsiCo as a manager in
worldwide finance for KFC.

Richard W. Houston

and his wife, Diane, live in Bloom-

ington, Ind., where Houston is pur-
suing his doctorate in accounting at
Indiana University-Bloomington.

Steven D. LaPrade

is a vice president with The Boston
Co., an affiliate of Mellon Bank. He
is responsible for real-estate lending
in the Washington (D.C.) area.
LaPrade lives in Falls Church, Va.

Tom M. Southall

is manager of network services at
American University, where he
designs and maintains all the com-
puter networks on campus.

James P. Wenke

lives in Exton, Pa., with his wife,
Wendy, and their two daughters,
Jennifer and Kathryn. Jim’s brother,
Mike Wenke ’79, lives in nearby
Media, Pa.

‘oS

Andrew H. Backus

has been managing an environmen-
tal restoration project in Niagara
Falls, N.Y., for the past year.

Andrew D. Butters
was recently promoted to associate
producer at ESPN. He produces

segments and pieces for the net-
work’s news and information pro-
gramming. Butters and his wife,
Sarah, live in Bristol, Conn.

Capt. Keith E. Goretzka

took a three-week tour of the Mid-

dle East last spring and discovered

along the way that one of his fellow
travelers was Mike Jenkins ’64.

John H. (Jay) Windsor Ill

is working with Trammell Crow Co.
in Dallas. He is also serving as the
membership chairman for the Dallas
chapter of the Institute of Real
Estate Management.

OSL

Michael E. Nogay

recently won one of the largest jury
verdicts in West Virginia history—
$2.75 million—in a medical mal-
practice action. The verdict was sat-
isfied without an appeal. Nogay rep-
resents plaintiffs in West Virginia,
Ohio, and Pennsylvania.

Pamela L. Ryan

is an attorney at the Rochester
(N.Y.) firm of Nixon, Hargrave,
Devans and Doyle. Ryan and her
husband live in Penfield, N.Y., with
their three-year-old son, Quinn.

9

S4
Karl F. Guenther
and his wife, Cheryl, live in
Louisville, Ky., where Guenther is
an operations management consul-
tant and has his own financial plan-
ning business.

R. Allen Haight
lives in London with his wife,
Franziska, where he works for
Schroder Ventures.

John E. Harrison Ill

was recently promoted to senior edi-
tor/abstractor for PsycInfo, the data-
base of the American Psychological
Association in Washington, D.C. He
went on vacation to County Kent,
England, in June and stayed with a
local family.

Charles M. (Chad) Plumly Il
is a vice president with Southwest
Bank in Atlanta.

Dr. Michael E. Singer

is an investment banker at James D.
Wolfensohn Inc. in New York. He
was recently elected to the board of
directors of the London School of
Economics Centre for Research on
the United States.

5 —

55
Ronald Fenstermacher Jr.
enlisted in the Pa. National Guard

and spent the summer in basic train-
ing at Fort Knox, Ky.

Todd G. Hermann

is director of athletics for the Baylor
Student Association at Baylor
College of Medicine in Houston,
where he is in his fourth year.

Marc F. Monyek

won the 1992 McDonald’s Corp.
President’s Award representing the
top 50 employees worldwide. He
lives in Chicago.

James A. Patterson

graduated from T.C. Williams
School of Law in 1992. He is the
assistant commonwealth’s attorney
for the city of Newport News, Va.

William R. Tommins

is a vice president and team header
with Fleet Bank’s Fairfield/West-
chester commercial lending group.
He received his MBA last Decem-
ber from Fordham University’s
Graduate School of Business
Administration. ‘Tommins and his
wife, Paula, live in Rye, N.Y.

James J. Werner Jr.

was promoted to regional sales man-
ager of the southeast region with the
Levolor Corp. based in Atlanta. He
relocated from Huntington Beach,
Calif., to Atlanta in April.

5 —

S5L,
Thomas A. Lisk
See ’80.

John K. Saunders
See ’81.

Elizabeth T. Winson

lives in Pittsburgh, where she prac-
tices law. She married ‘Thomas
Sweeney last year and instantly
became a new mom, adopting his
daughter, Courtney, four weeks
later. Winson enjoys spending time
at the family home in Naples, Fla.

‘56

Guy A. Caldwell

successfully defended his doctoral
dissertation in cellular and molecu-
lar biology this past summer at the
University of ‘Tennessee where he
is currently employed as a post-doc-
toral research associate. In the
course of his research into the mole-
cular basis of cancer, he was named
the recipient of the Science Alliance
Research Achievement Award five
times and co-authored an introduc-
tory textbook in biotechnology cur-
rently used worldwide. Guy was the
founder and editor of 7ze WEL
Journal of Science. He and his wife,
Kim, live in Knoxville, Tenn.

Anthonie M. Frens
received his Ph.D in physics at
Leiden University in the
Netherlands in May.

Julian (Jay) Hennig Ill
is an associate attorney with

——

Nexson, Pruet, Jacobs & Pol ;
Columbia, S.C. lard ig

Christopher R. Hope
completed his third Ironman
triathalon in Canada last su

Hope finished the 2.4-mile sali
112-mile bicycle ride and 26.2-mile
run in 10 hours and 58 minutes, He
lives in Marietta, Ga., with Stuart
Sheldon ’88.

Christopher J. Komosa
received his MBA from the Darden
School at the University of Virginia
in May.

William D. Martien
and his wife, Alice, live in Baltimore
with their daughter, Molly, 1.

W. Price Pollard

is still peddling industrial and envi-
ronmental safety equipment in cen-
tral and western Virginia for Virginia
Industrial Sales Inc. He lives in
Richmond with his wife, Jean.

Clinton R. Whitaker

was recently elected president of
the Outer Circle Ski Club, a 1,000
member, four-season sports club in
central New Jersey. He is employed
by David Sarnoff Research Center,
which develops advanced manufac-
turing software for factories in
Michigan, Indiana, and Italy.

OOL

Kirk A. Ludwig
has joined the law firm of Martin,
Hopkins & Lemon in Roanoke.

Jonathan L. Snare

was named partner with the Dallas
law firm of Jackson & Walker,
where he practices in the commer-
cial litigation section.

’

S/
Robert E. Calabretta
spent three years working in Tokyo
for Morgan Stanley & Co. During
off hours, he visited 12 Asian coun-
tries. Calabretta recently repatriated
and is now trading U.S. and
European futures in the company’s
New York office.

Robert L. Fitts Jr.

is an analyst in the investment
division of the J.E. Robert Cos. in
Alexandria, Va.

Sydney E. Marthinson

lives in Nashville, where she is
assistant vice president and training
manager for First Union Bank.

Ensign Edwin Parkinson l/l
graduated first in his class from the
U.S. Coast Guard Officer Candidate
School in June 1992. He is now fly-
ing search and rescue helicopters 9
Miami.

Robert Z. Slappey
was promoted to manager In the

-

Orlando office of KPMG Peat
Marwick, an international account-
ing and business consulting firm. He
~ his wife, Sharla, live in Winter
Springs. Fla.

M. Smith Ill

received his MBA from the
University of Pittsburgh. He has
since relocated to Chicago and is
working as a sales representative for
Tetra Pak, a Swedish company that
manufactures liquid food packaging

systems.

‘8S

Charles ©. Benedict Jr.
received his MBA degree from
Duke University’s Fuqua School of
Business in May. Benedict lives in
Durham, N.C.

Marq#?s

Jeffrey A. B ranflick

is a senior brand analyst with
Johnson & Johnson in New
Brunswick, N.J. He and his wife,
Jennifer, live in Stewartsville, N.J.

Samuel S. Obenshain

received his master’s degree in spe-
cial education and has been teach-
ing high school for several years. He
is delaying work on his Ph.D to pur-
sue a full-time modeling career.

Steven M. Sadler

has moved to Richmond with his
wife, Leslic, and their two children,
Brittany and Hailey.

Floyd M. (Buck) Wiley Ill

has moved to Moscow where he is a
tax and legal! specialist with KPMG.
He recently received his master’s
degree in international law from the
University of Brussels.

OSL.

Kathleen Hogan Bruen

iS a senior assistant district attorney
in Brooklyn, N.Y., where she prose-
cutes homicide and rape cases. She
and her husband, Kevin, live in
Brooklyn Heights.

69

Ist Lt. Matthew G. Bevin
is working in the environmental
engineering branch of the U.S.
Army at Fort Polk, La.

lan P. Bottomley

'Sa marketing manager with
PeterStar, a telecommunications
fompany in St. Petersburg, Russia.

Douglas C. Bracken
'S an attorney with the law firm of
St. Claire and Case in Dallas.

Joseph S. Caccamo

fecently moved to San Francisco,
Where he is a senior account execu-
uve with Edelman Public Relations
Worldwide.

Erin C. Cosby

received her MBA from Duke
University’s Fuqua School of
Business last May. She lives in
Winston-Salem, N.C.

David W. Dietz

received his degree in medicine last
June from Jefferson Medical
College in Philadelphia. He is doing
his residency in general surgery at
Allegheny General Hospital in
Pittsburgh.

Henry H. Mayer Ill

recently became a maritime admin-
istrative officer for Dyn Marine
Services Inc., a division of Dyn
Corp., which is headquartered in
Reston, Va.

W. Fray McCormick
is a first-year student at Cumberland
School of Law.

S. Hughes Melton
is in training in family medicine at
the University of Virginia Hospital.

Susan Lewis Morris

and her husband, Dennis, just
bought their first home in Massa-
nutten Village, near Harrisonburg,
Va. Morris is working toward a mas-
ter’s degree in library science at
James Madison University.
Eleanor C. Nelson

lives in New York where she pro-
duces “Business Day,” a half-hour
morning news show on CNN.

Julian P. Phillips Jr.

plays guitar and sings in a rock band.

‘The group, Shrunken Head, has
signed a contract with November
Records in New York, and its first
album will be released and distrib-
uted nationally this fall. Phillips
lives in Atlanta.

Ist Lt. Steven R. Zahn

has been reassigned to the U.S.
Army base Fort Hood, fulfilling his
lifelong goal of becoming a ‘Texas
resident.

OIL

John Irving Hill
has become associated with the
Waynesboro (Va.) law firm of

Poindexter, Schorsch, and Patterson.

"90

Sarah T. Allen

received her M.S. degree in chem-
istry from Duke University last
December. She lives in Durham,
N.C.

Lt. Scott C. Bahrke

recently received his MBA in the
Boston University Overseas
Program. He works as the installa-
tion transportation officer in
Kaiserslautern, Germany.

Music Man

When Roger Day ’85 started out playing music as a senior
with classmate John Herndon, his friend and advisor, German

professor B.S. Stephenson °42, was not too encouraging about

 

 

 

 

 

R 0 6.6.9) Gaye
CF ge
YiAL—

 

Day’s making a career as a musician. But when Day and
Herndon performed “Fire and Rain” at a graduation party at
Col Alto for the German majors, Stephenson changed his mind.
“When we finished there were two big tears running down the
professor’s face,” Day recalls. “He said to me, ‘You need to
play music.’ ”

Eight years have passed since then, and Rich Man, Poor Man,
Beggar Man, Thief, Day’s first recording of original songs, is ded-
icated to the memory of Stephenson, who died last year. ‘The
album (or accurately, the CD and cassette) came about
because, as Day puts it, “It was getting to be too big a job to
make tapes for people who were coming to hear my music.”

Day recorded Rich Man .. . over a seven-month period in
Nashville with freelance producer Ron de la Vega, who also
tours as cellist and bassist with singer-songwriter Nanci
Griffith. “Ron’s knowledge of area musicians and his ability to
bring them to the project was invaluable,” says Day, who now
lives in Nashville with his wife, Jodie, and son, ‘Thomas, 1.

In addition to the dedication to Stephenson, W&L connec-
tions abound on the album. Eric Heinsohn °83 of Charlottes-
ville, Va., Day’s longtime friend, collaborator, and former part-
ner in the duo of Heinsohn & Day, offered his guitar work and
harmony vocals on many of the cuts. Herndon, now living in
Houston, flew into Nashville to sing harmony as well, as did
Day’s friend Leslie Tucker, a singer-songwriter living in Lex-
ington. “These folks had to be a part of these sessions,” says
Day. “I’ve sung so much with them in Lexington that I wonder
what each new song I write would sound like with them

singing along. ’—By Peter Cronin ’84

47

Christy Carter-Camden

works for Central Fidelity Bank in
Richmond in the commercial loan
review function. She lives in
Chesterfield County, Va.

Marjorie E. (Meg) Gilkeson
was recently promoted to senior
account executive at Creative
Response Concepts, a public rela-
tions firm in Alexandria, Va.

Evan J. Kline
received his J.D. degree from the
Dickinson School of Law last June.

Allen H. Ladd

reports that he took a highly prof-
itable weekend trip to Las Vegas
with classmates Warren Holland,
Rodgers Herndon and Murphy
“MacVegas” McMillan. Ladd is an
underwriter with Continental
Insurance Co. in Atlanta.

Mark T. Milligan

is working with Price Waterhouse
Management Consulting Services.
He has been on assignment in New
York and has been hanging around
with fraternity brothers Justin
Walker ’90, Ed Gillespie ’92 and
Matt Smith ’92. They have run into
Holly Buffington "92, Tracey
‘Thornblade ’92, Kimberly Bishop
"92, Elizabeth Fox ’92 and Jim Jones
90 several times.

Matthew N. Murphy

is an account executive for the
northeast region at ESPN. Murphy
works out of the network’s Bristol
(Conn.) office, but his territory cov-
ers Vermont, Rhode Island and
Pennsylvania.

Richard J. Poli

moved to Philadelphia in February
with his wife, Susan, and two chil-
dren, Mason and Ashley. He is
working as a financial consultant for
Shearson Lehman Brothers.

Scott T. Sanders

spent a year in Paris completing a
master’s degree from Middlebury
College. He is now teaching French
and coaching at the Fountain Valley
School in Colorado Springs.

Christopher O. Smythe
graduated from law school at the
University of Virginia last spring. He
took the North Carolina bar exam
over the summer and is now clerk-
ing for the Hon. John A. Mackenzie,
U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Virginia. He lives with
John Thornton °87 in Virginia
Beach.

R. Bland Warren

was recently promoted to director of
quality control at the Slim Jim beef
jerky production facility outside of
Conroe, ‘Texas.

QOL,

Denise Yvette Lunsford

is an attorney with the
Charlottesville (Va.) law firm of
Michie, Hamlett , Lowry,
Rasmussen, and Tweel. She and her
husband, John Hill ’89L, live in
Waynesboro.

9]

Amy E. Aussiker

lives in Winston-Salem, N.C., where
she is in her third year at Bowman
Gray School of Medicine.

Sarah C. Bolte

recently returned from a missions
trip to Santo Domingo in the
Dominican Republic.

Sherri L. Brown

spent the past two years as a senior
counselor and teacher with Eckerd
Family Youth Alternatives at a resi-
dential healthcare facility for emo-
tionally handicapped youths. The
camp is located in Brooksville, Fla.,
and specializes in wilderness educa-
tion. Brown is currently pursuing his
master’s at Yale Divinity School.

John T. Buchanan

moved to Chicago and is working for
Anchor Hocking’s international
sales office. His new sales territory
is centered in Latin and South
America.

Paige E. Cason

works in the Washington (D.C.)
office of the law firm of Wilkie, Farr
& Callagher, in its international
trade group.

Marine Cpl. Milas Davis II]
was recently promoted to his pre-
sent rank while serving with 4th
Assault Amphibion Battalion, 4th
Marine Division in Gulfport, Miss.

John A. Ebner
is in the MBA program at the
University of Virginia.

Todd B. Garliss Jr.

is an assistant trader in the equity
division at Alex. Brown & Sons in
Baltimore. He shares a house in
Brooklandville, Md., with class-
mates Michael Pardo and Tom
Costello.

Gregory J. Golden
is attending law school at the
University of Richmond.

Timothy J. Halloran

has left his position as admissions
counselor and coordinator of alumni
admissions at W&L to attend the
University of Georgia’s College of
Business. He is in the master’s of
marketing research program on a
full assistantship.

Adrienne Weatherford Howard
and her husband recently moved
from Newport, R.L., to Virginia

Beach. Howard is working at
Norfolk Academy.

Linsly M. Hunt
works for the Coca-Cola Co. in
Atlanta.

Christopher G. Jacobs
is a copywriter with Austin Kelley
Advertising Inc., in Atlanta.

Lt. David T. Johnston
recently headed to Germany for a
three-year tour. Johnston reports
that he and his wife, Kelly, spent
the summer in Augusta, Ga.

Anne D. Lamkin

was appointed associate managing
editor of the American Journal of
Trial Advocacy, was selected as an
alternate for the national moot court
team and was named best advocate
in the Donworth Freshman Moot
Court competition at the
Cumberland School of Law.

Allen L. Litvak Jr.

spent his third consecutive summer
working for the Pensacola Beach
Search and Rescue Squad. He also
gave lessons on trick water-skiing.

T. Christopher Locke

is associated with Swinford
Industries Limited of Hong Kong.
He is based in Hong Kong and trav-
els throughout China.

Patricia Lopes

finished her Rhodes Scholar pro-
gram at Oxford University in June
with a B.A. in modern history and is
now working in Kensington, Md.

John E. McManus

lives in Potomac, Md., with his
grandfather, John Ecker ’28. He
received his master’s of public poli-
cy degree from Duke University.

Rachelle B. Nock

is enrolled in the University of
Maryland’s MBA program and was
appointed as a graduate assistant.

Tomas L. Perez
is studying polymer science at the
University of Connecticut in Storrs.

Jean J. Stroman
works for Wachovia Bank in Atlanta.

John T. Swartz

is working as an applications manag-
er for Sentinent Systems in
Kensington, Md., a software compa-
ny that develops billing systems for
medical offices.

Sumner Timberlake
works for Wachovia Bank in Atlanta.

Brooke L. Tinley

lives in Atlanta with classmates
Linsly Hunt, Sumner Timberlake
and Jean Stroman. They recently
got cable TV.

G. Albert (Ab) Wilkinson Jr.
has recently started medical school
in Jackson, Miss.

GIL

Thomas E. Evans

has moved to Austin and is workin
for the law firm of Calame, :
Linebarger, Graham & Pena.

 

Charles K. Grant

has joined the law firm of Wall
Harris, Sims & Henry in
Martinsburg, W.Va. He Practices in
the areas of commercial litigation,
business bankruptcy and insurance
defense.

a

Shana Horrigan Alewine
lives in Gaithersburg, Md., with her
husband, William.

ace,

Wangdali (Wali) Bacdayan
is in his second year as a financial
analyst in the acquisition and
private finance group at Dean
Witter in New York.

Amy E. Beall

is an addictions counselor with the
Maryland Student Assistance
Program Team. The program helps
identify adolescents who are at risk
for abusing alcohol or other drugs.

Erik E. Bertelson

is a marketing representative for
Latin America with Software
Publishing Corp. in San Francisco.

Kimberly A. Bishop

is a sales assistant for the New York
Regional Manager at Cowen & Co.,
one of the smaller investment bank-
ing firms on Wall Street. She just
got her Series Seven license and is
now a registered representative.

John A. (Jay) Broaddus
lives in Richmond where he works
for Scott & Stringfellow.

Holly A. Buffington

reports that she has returned to the
South to attend the University of
Alabama School of Law. She worked
in New York for a year as a litigation
legal assistant for the firm of
‘Thacher, Proffitt & Wood.

E. Cullins Carriker

has a teaching fellowship at
Southern Methodist University in
Dallas for the 1993-94 academic
year.

Patrick J. Conner

is a project administrator on a 71-
home development called Virginia
Commons. He lives in Fresno, Calif.

Coleman J. Devlin
is living in Baltimore and working
for Alex. Brown & Sons.

John P. Donaldson

is in his second year of law school at
the University of Virginia. He spent
the summer clerking at Buist,
Moore, Smythe and McGee in
Charleston, S.C.

-

Robin M. Dru -
-< working as an associate clinical
monitor! with Chiron IntraOptics in
Irvine, Calif.

Jennifer L. Fischer

js an operations planner with
Computerland Corporation in
Fredericksburg, Va.

Alexandra D. Glynn
is a financial analyst with T. Rowe
Price, 2 mutual fund investment

firm in Baltimore.

Ashley E. Gray
is in her second year at George
Washington University Medical

School.

Kristin L. Greenough

is currently living and working in
Los Angeles. She is working as a
research technologist at the Univer-
sity of Southern California in the
laboratory of human gene therapy.

Christopher L. Haley

lives in Birmingham, where he is in
the management training program at
First Commercial Bank.

Karen R. Halsell

is beginning her second year of
medical school at the University of
Texas in Galveston.

Cindy D. Heffern

recently moved to Hampstead,
N.C., with her husband, Tom.
Heffernis working toward her mas-
ter’s of chemistry at the University
of North Carolina at Wilmington.

Richard F. Hughes

is a financial! consultant with Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith in
Marlton, N.J.

William G. Jones
is attending Columbia Theological
Seminary in Atlanta.

Denise C. Kepler

is working as a sales representative
for Interim Services, Inc. in New
Jersey. She plans on relocating to
the Cincinnati area soon.

Heather M. Midkiff

spent the past year working as an
admissions counselor at Southern
Virginia College for Women (the
former Southern Seminary). She is
how pursuing a master’s degree in
Counselor education with an empha-
Sis in higher education at the
University of Virginia.

Thomas P. Otis

'Sa commercial banking representa-
tive with First Union Bank in
Charlotte.

Lisa M. Preston

'S Working as a teaching assistant
While earning her master’s degree in
English at Salisbury State
University.

Tate N. Saunders
is in his second year of law school at
St. Mary’s in San Antonio, Texas.

Sonja M. Tillberg
is in her first year at Yale Divinity
School.

James R. Tucker Jr.

is a legislative correspondent in Sen.
Coverdale’s (R-Ga.) Washington
(D.C.) office.

Hunter H. Williams
is in advertising school at the
Portfolio Center in Atlanta.

Jeffrey D. Willis

is working as a legal assistant for the
law firm of Seyfarth, Shaw,
Fairweather & Geraldson in
Washington, D.C.

92L

Joni K. Eisenstein

lives in San Diego, where she is
deputy public defender for the
county.

Vs

Jennifer M. Carr

is a first-year graduate student at the
University of Wisconsin-Madison.
She spent the summer doing geo-
physical research at the NASA-
Goddard Space Flight Center in
Maryland.

Kathy L. Ferrell

is in graduate school at the
University of Georgia. She is
enrolled in the community counsel-
ing program.

James J. Gallagher

is a trainee at Sandler O'Neill &
Partners, located on the 104th floor
of the World Trade Center in New
York. He is assigned to the mort-
gage-backed securities trading desk.

Maureen R. Levey

is the first-ever Annual Fund staff
associate at Washington and Lee.
‘The position was created to assist
Annual Fund director Peter Cronin
*84 in the areas of parent and young
alumni support.

Mark C. Van Deusen

is working in Washington, D.C., as
Colorado Rep. Dan Schaefer’s staff
assistant. He held internships with
Schaefer and another Colorado
Republican, Sen. Hank Brown, dur-
ing his time at W&L.

93.

Timothy D. Downes

was appointed assistant executive
director for championships and com-
pliance with the NCAA. He is
responsible for organizing a confer-
ence-wide education program and
managing the conference’s 18 cham-
pionships. While at W&L, Downes

served as an assistant coach for the
men’s soccer and lacrosse teams.

Gregory A. Garbacz

is an associate at the law firm of
Klinedinst, Fliehman & McKillop in
San Diego. .

Marriages

Joseph B. Tompkins Jr. °71
to Nancy Powell, on Feb. 6, 1993, in
Vinton, Va.

Craig B. Forry ’78

to Leslie Tomlinson, on July 2,
1993, in Calabasas, Calif. The cou-
ple lives in El Segundo.

Christopher B. Burnham ’80
to Courtney Anne Bauer, on June
19, 1993, in Greenwich, Conn.
Burnham is a vice president in the
public and corporate finance groups
at Advest Inc., an investment bank
in Hartford, Conn. He was a repre-
sentative in the Connecticut
General Assembly from 1987 to
1992 and a major in the U.S. Marine
Corps Reserves. The couple lives in
Stamford.

Robert E. Hummel ’80

to Cynthia Weiler, on March 13,
1993, in Oak Park, Ill. Hummel is a
vice president with First Midwest
Bank. The couple lives in Gurnee,
Ill.

Scott T. Stafford 81

to Lois Wright Johnson, on Aug. 30,
1992, in Lee Chapel. The couple
lives in Midlothian, Va.

Richard D. Hachenburg ’82

to Candy Dunhill, on May 9, 1993,
in Pompano Beach, Fla. The couple
lives in Boca Raton, Fla., where
Hachenburg is the Florida regional
manager for Beltone Electronics
Corp.

Dr. Gilson J. Kingman ’82

to Cheryl Eddy, on May 1, 1993, in
Dearborn, Mich. The couple lives in
Winston-Salem, N.C., where
Kingman has a two-year fellowship
in plastic and reconstructive surgery
at the Bowman Gray School of
Medicine.

Randal C. Manspile ’83

to Sheryl Kay DeVaun, on May 8,
1993, in Richmond. The couple
lives in Richmond, where Manspile
is employed by Crestar Bank.

Peter Cronin ’84

to Amy Lynn Doonan, on Oct. 2,
1993, in Lexington, Va. Mark H.
Eastham °84 was best man, and the
wedding party included W. Patrick
Hinely ’73, Charles W. Mason °84,
and Christie L. Davis °89.

Alfred P. Tibbetts ’84L
to Gwynne Anne Birkelund, on May

15, 1993, in New Canaan, Conn.
The couple lives in Darien, Conn.,
where ‘Tibbetts is a partner in the
law firm of Tibbetts & Keating.

David E. Green ’85

to Karen Marie Bennett, on March
20, 1993. Green is a chemist with
Milliken & Co. The couple lives in
Mauldin, S.C.

J. Scott Stockburger '86

to Andrea Kay McMillin, on June
12, 1993. Stockburger is in his first
year of medical school at the
University of Arkansas.

Stephen E. Vogt °86

to Kimberly McPherson, on Aug. 6,
1993. Vogt is with the Justice
Department in Cleveland, Ohio.

Dr. Michael S. Blackwood ’87
to Heidi Lea Read ’89,

on July 31, 1993, in Winchester, Va.
Blackwood is a second-year ortho-
dontic resident at the University of
Detroit-Mercy. The couple lives in
Gross Pointe Park, Mich.

Sean M. Butler °87

to Cindy Jean Dilley, on July 16,
1993. Butler teaches English at
Christopher Newport University
and at two community colleges in
Newport News, Va., where the cou-
ple lives with their cat, Nabokov.

Richard E. Lail ’87

to Barbra K. Harsis, on June 19,
1993, in Atlanta. ‘The wedding party
included classmates Kevin Ander-
son, Barritt Gilbert, and Michael
McGarry, Clint Shelton ’86, Steve
Szczecinski ’88, and Brad Watkins
’88. The couple lives in Atlanta.

Dr. Jeffrey 8. Mandak ’87

to Melinda Lucille Sica, on June 12,
1993, in Wilmington, Del. The wed-
ding party included ‘Tom Schurr ’85
and Jeffrey Dixon ’85. Mandak is a
third-year resident in internal medi-
cine at the hospital of the University
of Pennsylvania will begin a fellow-
ship position in cardiovascular dis-
ease at Geisinger Medical Center in
Danville, Pa., next July. The couple
lives in Philadelphia.

Roby D. Mize Jr. 87

to Michelle Ziegler, on July 17,
1993, in Dallas. The wedding party
included classmates Rob Tolleson
and Kenny Bendheim. Mize re-
ceived his MBA from the University
of ‘Texas at Austin. The couple lives
in Dallas, where Mize works for
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.

Thomas H. Pee ’87

to Elizabeth Connell, on July 24, in
Jacksonville, Fla. Pee is in his fourth
year at Episcopal School of
Academia where he teaches physics
and coaches cross country and soc-
cer. The couple lives in Cade, La.

Carlton Simons Jr. °87
to Katherine R. Woodward, on Nov.

49

21, 1992. Simons received his MBA
from the University of South
Carolina in May 1991 and is now
assistant director of finance with
Home Health Services Inc. ‘The
couple lives in Charleston, S.C.

Eric R. Turner ’87

to Robin B. Simmons, on July 17,
1993, in Washington, D.C. Turner is
an analyst with the Cable and
Wireless Communications Co. in
Vienna, Va. The couple lives in
Arlington.

Marguerite F. Ayers ’88

to Paul Andrew Chludzinski on
June 13, 1992, in Lee Chapel. Ayers
is a reporter for WWAY-TYV. The
couple lives in Wilmington, N.C.

Stephen R. Castle ’88

to Susan Mathes Davis ’90,
on June 12, 1993 in Louisville, Ky.
‘The wedding party included
Caroline B. Davis ’90, Fiona H.
Blocker ’90, Laura L. Eggers °90,
Rachel R. Jackson ’90 and James M.
Rallo ’88.

Richard T. Clawson ’88

to Elizabeth P. Cranford, on June 5,
1993, in Virginia Beach. Clawson
received his MBA from Virginia
Commonwealth University in May
and is employed by the advertising
and public relations firm of Siddall,
Matus, Coughter Inc. in Richmond.

Christopher Ryan Gareis ’88
to Molly Rogers Hofler, on July 31,
1993. Hofler is the granddaughter of
Edwin Tilghman Coulbourn °35.
‘Timothy Andrew Bolling ’88 was a
member of the wedding party.

David B. Gray ’88

to Phyllis Ann Turner, on May 22,
1993. Gray is an associate in the cor-
porate finance group of Legg Mason
Wood Walker Inc. in Washington,
D.C. The couple lives in Alexan-
dria, Va.

William T. Hartley ’88

to Alicia Cooke, on Sept. 18, 1993,
in Richmond. The wedding party
included classmate James Midkiff.
‘The couple lives in Nashville,
where Hartley is completing an
orthopedic surgery residency at
Vanderbilt.

Christopher M. Martin ’88
to Christine E. Bird, on July 17,
1993, in Worcester, N.Y. Martin is
an underwriter with the Spencer
Savings Bank in Garfield, N.J.

Gregory B. Morcroft ’88

to Dena Val Driver, on July 4, 1993,
in Craftsbury, Vt. Morcroft is a
financial correspondent with
Reuters in New York. The couple
lives in Brooklyn.

Theodore C. Waters III ’88
to Rebecca Hudson, on April 24,

1993, in Alexandria, Va. ‘The wed-
ding party included classmates Brad
Root and Chip Gist and Frank
Kannapell ’89.

Ronald J. Brown ’89

to Susan E. Gober, on Oct. 24, 1992,
in Denver, Colo. The wedding party
included James T. Hamlin IV °87
and Hunter B. McFadden ’89. The
couple lives in Washington, D.C.

Michael D. Carroll ’89

to Julia C. Sheppard ’89,

on June 19, 1993, in Winchester, Va.
‘The wedding party included class-
mates Will Arvin, Christian Blessey,
David Burns, Erin Cosby, Dudley
Lee, Weston Newton, Liz Smith,
Gar Sydnor and Alston Parker Watt.
‘The bride is an associate with the
Memphis law firm of Burch, Porter
& Johnson. The groom received his
MBA from Vanderbilt University in
May and is employed as a corporate
president’s associate with the
Promus Cos. The couple lives in
Cordova, Tenn.

Christopher R. Ferguson ’89
to Monica Lee Craft, on June 12,
1993, in Charlottesville, Va. The
wedding party included Pat
Ferguson 86, Jay Fant 90 and Nick
‘Thompson ’90. The couple lives in
Charlottesville.

Thomas F. Flournoy IV ’89

to Bonnie Siegleman, on July 17,
1993, in Birmingham. The wedding
party included classmates Doug
Bracken, Steve Flagler, and Steve
Zahn. Flournoy completed his MBA
from Emory University in May and
the couple has since moved to
Seattle, where he will spend six
months working for GTE on the
first leg of a fast-track management
program.

Courtney H. Harpold ’89

to Kevin A. Struthers ’89,

on June 12, 1993, in Charleston,
W.Va. The wedding party included
classmates Christopher L. Callas,
Catherine W. Councill, Elizabeth A.
Cummins, Susan Lewis Morris and
Marie Dunn White. Also in the
wedding party were Rob J. Aliff ’91,
Christopher J. Dieghan ’87, Robert
M. Harpold ’96, and Matthew B.
Upton °88. Harpold is a resident
physician at Georgetown University
Hospital and Struthers is in his sec-
ond year in the master’s program in
arts management at American
University in Washington, D.C. He
also works at the university as public
relations manager for the depart-
ment of performing arts.

Debra B. Hurtt ’89

to Michael W. Stasko, on June 12,
1993. The wedding party included
Judith Ringland Outland °87 and
Valerie Kochey Smetana °87. Hurtt
recently graduated from the

University of Maryland School of
Medicine and is now doing her resi-
dency at Baystate Medical Center in
Springfield, Mass. The couple lives
in Agawam, Mass.

Philip R. Isley °89

to Laura Boyce, on June 12, 1993.
Members of the wedding party
included Mark ‘T. Neuman ’89,
David W. McDowell ’88, and Jones
‘Tyler °85. The couple lives in
Raleigh, N.C., where Isley is an
attorney with the law firm of Merritt
& Leak. His areas of practice are
general corporate and civil litigation.

Heidi L. Read ’89
See Dr. Michael S. Blackwood °87.

Kevin A. Struthers °89
See Courtney H. Harpold °89.

James A. Urso ’89

to Kathleen Duwel ’91,

on June 12, 1993, in Lee Chapel.
‘The wedding party included
Andrew Layton ’89, W. Christopher
Wood ’89, Robert (Bucky) Strauch
"89, and assistant chemistry profes-
sor Lisa Alty. The couple lives in
Pittsburgh.

Rebecca K. Brandt ’90

to Christopher Condit, on May 22,
1993, in Haddonfield, N.J. The
wedding party included Stephanie
Lake °89 and Lori Richardson °90.
Brandt recently graduated from
Rutgers University School of Law
and will serve as a law clerk to the
Hon. Irvin Snyder, Camden County
Superior Court judge. The couple
lives in Voorhees, N.].

Susan M. Davis °90
See Stephen R. Castle ’88.

Robert J. Dadio ’90

to Susan Marie Weber, on June 26,
1993, in Bethlehem, Pa. Classmate
Richard Montague was a member of
the wedding party. Dadio is an audi-
tor with Crown Central Petroleum
in Baltimore. The couple lives in
Silver Spring, Md.

James A. Fuller ’90

to Ann Stewart ’90,

on June 26, 1993, in Easton, Mass.
‘The wedding party included class-
mate R.J. Thomas. The “W&L
Swing” was chosen by the groom to
be played during the cake cutting.
The couple lives in Brockton, Mass.

Jane Lee Joyce ’90

to Donald W. McHan Jr., on April
24, 1993. Elizabeth A. Cummins °89
was in the wedding party. Joyce is a
law student at the University of
Arkansas in Little Rock and works
at the law firm of Giroir & Gregory.
The couple lives in Little Rock.

Christopher Pennewill Jr. °90
to Sarah Elizabeth Colvin, on July
17, 1993, in Fort Wayne, Ind. The
wedding party inlcuded classmates

 

Harlan Winn, Jack Pringle, and
Wesley Goings, and Ashley
Pennewill °95. The couple lives in
‘Tampa, Fla.

Ann Stewart °90
See James A. Fuller ’90.

Lindsay B. deHaven ’91

to Ist Lt. J. Harley Walsh 97
on July 24, 1993, in Sewickley, Pa.”
‘The wedding party included Anne
B. Culley ’91, Carol Damewood
Spann "92, Janis Ferman Straske 91
Chamie C. Schildt "91, Bryant],
Spann "91, Matthew V. Wherry ’91
and G. Albert (Ab) Wilkinson Jr. °91
The couple lives in Jacksonville, ;
N.C., where Walsh is an artillery
officer with the U.S. Marine Corps
at Camp Lejeune.

Kathleen Duwel ’9]
See James Urso ’89.

David C. Gilmore ’91

to Melissa McDaniel, on July 31,
1993. Gilmore is employed by
Colonial Life Insurance Co. The
couple lives in Lynchburg, Va.

Patrick M. Heffernan ’91

to Maureen Louney, on July 24,
1993, in Bedford, N.H. Classmates
C. Michael Graf and Christopher
Doyle served as best men, and
Gregory Golden and Frederick
(Skip) Sugarman were also in the
wedding party. Heffernan is finish-
ing his master’s from the University
of Virginia and working for DA
‘Technology in Needham, Mass.
The couple lives in Arlington, Mass.

Paige Kilian ’91

to John Loper, on June 18, 1993, in
Forest Hill, Md. The couple lives in
Boston where Kilian is in her third
year of medical school at Tufts
University.

Andrew B. Manson °91

to Shawn A. Wert ’91,

on July 24, 1993, in Lee Chapel.
The wedding party included Robert
Manson ’89 and 1991 classmates
Scott Alrutz, Keiko Harada, and
Kathy Moritz. The couple lives in
El Paso, Texas, where Andrew is a
first lieutenant in the Army and
Shawn works for Mounce and
Galatzan in the business law depart-
ment.

Susan L. Reil °91

to J. Kent Gregory 92,

on Aug. 15, 1992, in Lee Chapel.
The couple lives in Minneapolis,
where Reil is an assistant media
planner for Clarity Coverdale Rueff
Advertising and Gregory is pursuing
his Ph.D in classical studies at the
University of Minnesota.

Christopher J. Smith °91

to Laura L. Hannan, on May 29,
1993, in Chevy Chase, Md. The
wedding party included lan

 

Shupack "91, Dan Bevill ’91 and Jon
Sheinberg ‘90. Smith is in his final

ear at the University of Baltimore
Esool of Law. The couple lives in
Columbia, Md.

ae. Harley Walsh °91

as iy B. deHaven "91.

See Lindsé¢
Robert L. Galbreath ’91L

ro Jaimie Ellen Del Monte, on June
19, 1993, at Sweet Briar College.
Mare Cobb 91 [. was an usher in the
wedding. Galbreath is an associate
with the firm of Allen, Moline &
Harold in Washington, D.C. The

couple lives in Fairfax, Va.

Carolyn M. Richardson ’91L
to Thomas Guest, on Aug. 7, 1992,
in Beaumont, Texas. The couple
lives in Houston.

Elizabeth Wilbourn ’91L

to Russel! H. Williamson, on April 3,
1993, in Meridian, Miss. The wed-
ding party included the bride’s sis-
ter, Garnett Wilbourn 92, Wilbourn
is the daughter of Richard E. Wil-
bourn 58 and the granddaughter of
the late James C. Wilbourn °27,
’29L. The couple lives in Memphis,
Tenn., where Wilbourn is an attor-
ney with the firm of Armstrong,
Allen, Prewitt, Gentry, Johnston and
Holmes.

J. Kent Gregory ’92
See Susan L. Reil 91.

Jennifer L. Miller ’93

to Russel! Goodwin, on June 26,
1993, in Oconomowoc, Wis. Jennifer
Carr 93 was a member of the wed-
ding party. Miller works for Abbott
Labs in I\linois. The couple lives in
South Milwaukee, Wis.

Births

Mr. © Mrs. Aron L. Suna ’67,
a son, Phillip Alexander, on April 27,
1993. He joins two sisters, Claire

and Natalie. Suna is the president of
Suna Brothers, a jewelry manufac-
turing corporation that has recently
expanded into retail jewelry with
the acquisition of Shreve & Co., San
Francisco's oldest retail establish-
ment. ‘The family lives in New

York.

Mr. @ Mrs. Henry R.
Gonzalez Jr. 68, a daughter,
Miranda Carol, on Jan. 25, 1993.
The family lives in Jupiter, Fla.
Gonzalez recently completed con-
struction of the Raymond F. Kravis
Center for the Performing Arts in
Palm Beach, Fla.

Mr. @ Mrs. Huntley Johnson
Jr. ’69, a daughter, Cameron June,
on Apri! 27, 1993. Johnson reports
that his daughter looks just like him.
The family lives in Gainesville, Fla.

Mr. © Mrs. William P.
McE/lway Jr. ’70, ason, Bailey
Jett Locher, on Dec. 22, 1992. He
joins a sister, Caitlin. The family
lives in Richmond.

Mr. © Mrs. Timothy H. Dyer
'71, a daughter, Celia Cristina, on
June 19, 1993. She joins a brother,
TJ. The family lives in Marion,
Mass. Dyer is vice president and
director of marketing for Compass
Bank in New Bedford.

Mr. @ Mrs. Timothy 8. Fowler
‘75, ason, Dickens Arthur, on
April 18, 1993. He joins a sister,
‘Tara. The family lives in Camp Hill,
Pa.

Mr. @ Mrs. Karl Klinger ’75,
a daughter, Esther Elizabeth, on
March 25, 1993. She joins two broth-
ers, Zachary and Wilhelm. The fam-
ily lives in Virginia Beach.

Mr. © Mrs. Andrew R. Harvin
°76, adaughter, Emily Anne, on
May 12, 1993. She joins a sister,
Sara. The family lives in Houston.

Mr. © Mrs. Stephen M. Scully
'76, ason, Samuel Montgomery, on
Feb. 4, 1993. He joins two brothers,
John and Patrick. The family lives
in Dallas.

Mr. © Mrs. Patrick K. Sieg
°76, ason, Stephan Michael, on
June 20, 1993. He joins a sister,
Erica and a brother, Robert. Sieg is
director of operations accounting for
Marriott Hotels and Resorts. The
family lives in Germantown, Md.

Mr. @ Mrs. Richard L.
Lovegrove ’77, ason, Spencer
Sykes, on Feb. 4, 1993. He joins a
sister, Grace. C. Richard Lovegrove
"53, is the proud grandfather. The
family lives in Roanoke.

Dr. @ Dr. Earl W. (Sandy)
Stradtman Jr. ’77, ason, Earl
W. III (Skipper), on May 27, 1993.
He joins a sister, Merrye Summers,
3. The family lives in Birmingham,
where Stradtman is director of pedi-
atric and adolescent gynecology at
the Children’s Hospital of Alabama.

Mr. © Mrs. Stephen M.
Baldwin ’78, ason, William
Fletcher, on May 31, 1992. He joins
a sister, Ella Virginia. The family
lives in Rocky Mount, N.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. John L. Bruch IIl
‘78, a daughter, Augusta Lee
Carroll, on May 21, 1993. She joins a
brother, John. The family lives in
Baltimore.

Mr. © Mrs. Charles E. Hinkle
*78, ason, Louis Edward, on Dec.
17, 1992. ‘The family lives in
‘Temple, Texas.

Mr. © Mrs. John H. Kingston
‘78, ason, John Wesley, on May

14, 1993. He joins two sisters,
Nicole and Caroline. ‘The family
lives in Carle Place, N.Y. Kingston is
executive editor of Platt’s Oilgram
News, a daily newsletter published
by McGraw-Hill that covers the oil
and gas industry.

Mr. © Mrs. William R. Mauck
Jr. °79, ’85L, ason, Stuart
Cunningham, on May 20, 1993. He
joins a sister, Caroline and a brother,
Billy. The family lives in Richmond
where Mauck is a shareholder in the
law firm of Williams, Mullen,
Christian & Dobbins.

Mr. @ Mrs. Leslie A. Cotter
Jr. ’80, ason, Leslie A. III, on
Aug. 17, 1992. He joins two sisters,
Caroline Reeves and Elizabeth
Alexander. The family lives in
Columbia, S.C.

Mr. © Mrs. Albin B. Hammond
/11 °80, ason, William Byron, on
July 22, 1993. The family lives in
Charlottesville, Va.

Mr. © Mrs. Michael O. Lavitt
"80, a daughter, Katherine Mae, on
Jan. 4, 1993. The family lives in
New Brunswick, N.].

Mr. © Mrs. Murry G.
McClintock ’80, a daughter,
Margaret Avery, on May 30, 1992.
She joins two brothers, Garrott and
Scott. The family lives in Tunica,
Miss.

Mr. @ Mrs. Douglas H. Seitz
"80, a daughter, Victoria Jennings,
on May 25, 1993. She joins a sister,
Maggie. The family lives in
Calverton, Md.

Mr. ©@ Mrs. Donald E.
Swagart Jr. ’80, ason, Colin, on
July 2, 1993. He joins three sisters.
The family lives in Olney, Md.

Mr. Peter R. Roane ’80L @
Ms. Michele K. Skarvelis ’80L,
a son, Nicholas Patterson Roane, on
Oct. 18, 1992, in Charlottesville, Va.
He joins a brother, Philip and a sis-
ter, Anne. The family lives in
Charlottesville.

Mr. @ Mrs. Robert L. Brooke
"81, a daughter, Ralston Burris, on
April 3, 1993. She joins twin sisters,
Caroline and Elizabeth. Brooke was
elected partner in the law firm of
Mays & Valentine in Richmond last
January. He practices business and
commercial litigation. The family
lives in Richmond.

Mr. © Mrs. Philip D. Marella

Jr. °81, a daughter, Dana Jesse, on
July 23, 1993. She joins a sister, Julia
Grace, 2. Marella is senior vice presi-

dent of legal and business affairs at
Worldvision Enterprises, a sub-
sidiary of Spelling Entertainment.
The family lives in New York.

Mr. © Mrs. Robert Neely ’81,
a son, James Lincoln, on April 26,
1993. He joins a brother, Robert Jr.
and a sister, Randall. The family
lives in Dallas.

Mr. @ Mrs. Oliver P. Newberry
III °81, a daughter, Isabelle, on
March 24, 1993. She joins her sister,
Marilyn. The family lives in Fort
Worth, ‘Texas, where Newberry is a
commercial real estate broker.

Mr. © Mrs. James Small ’81,
a daughter, Eileen Annette, on
March 18, 1993. The family lives in
Midland, ‘Texas.

Mr. © Mrs. Andrew Wiley ’81,
a son, Taylor Colscon, on March 22,
1993. The family lives in
Richmond, where Wiley is a vice
president at Craigie Inc., an invest-
ment banking firm.

Mr. @ Mrs. Samuel A. Flax
’8/L, a daughter, Caroline

Suzanne, on March 3, 1993. The
family lives in Chevy Chase, Md.

Mr. © Mrs. R. Andrew Finkle
"82, ason, Robert E. Rutledge, on
March 7, 1993. The family lives in
Raleigh, N.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. John R. Guest 82,
a daughter, ‘Taylor Nicole, on June
17, 1993. She joins two brothers,
Ryan and Vic. The family lives in
Houston.

Mr. @ Mrs. John Monroe ’82,
a son, John William, on June 16,
1993. He joins a sister, Megan. The
family lives in Atlanta.

Mr. @ Mrs. Brian J. Noonan
"82, a daughter, Loren Elizabeth,
on July 21, 1993. She joins a sister,
Kelsey. The family lives in Char-
lotte, where Noonan is a senior
manager with Arthur Andersen &
Co.

Mr. @ Mrs. F. Bradley Scholtz
"82, a daughter, Kelly, on April 28,
1993. She joins two brothers, Jeff
and Scott. The family lives in
Darien, Conn.

Mr. @ Mrs. Russell H. Stall
‘82, ason, Russell Hampton Jr., on
March 2, 1993. The family lives in
Atlanta.

Mr. © Mrs. Timothy C. Taylor
"82, a daughter, Mary Elizabeth,
on July 13, 1993. She joins a broth-
er, Charles and a sister, Kathryn.
The family lives in Austin, Texas.

Mr. @ Mrs. Mark Anderson
‘83, a daughter, Andrea Rose, on

51

July 18, 1993. The family lives in
Cary, N.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. John F. Delahanty
’83, a daughter, Taylor Fairfax, on
April 29, 1993, in Manhattan. ‘The
family lives in Hoboken, N.J.

Mr. © Mrs. Mark C. Shuford
‘83, ’86L, a daughter, Ruth
Weldon, on March 24, 1993. The
family lives in Richmond.

Mr. © Mrs. C. Jay Robbins IV
‘83L, ason, Clement Jay V, on
June 1, 1993. He joins two sisters,
Megan and Emma. The family lives
in Chesapeake, Va.

Mr. © Mrs. Martin J. Bechtold
"84, a daughter, Bridget Ann, on
March 25, 1993. The family lives in
Cleveland Heights, Ohio. Bechtold
was recently named general manag-
er of the Cleveland State University
Convocation Center.

Capt. @ Mrs. Edward J.
O’Brien ’84, ason, Robert
Joseph, on Dec. 25, 1992. He joins a
brother, Brendan. ‘The family lives
in Watertown, N.Y.

Mr. © Mrs. James A. (Chip)
Skinner [Ill °84, a daughter,
Maria Elizabeth, on Nov. 20, 1992.
‘The family lives in London.

Mr. John P. Gallagher ’84L @
Mrs. Nancy M. Gallagher
*85L, ason, Connor, on Jan. 20,
1993. He joins a brother, Jack, 2.
The family lives in Marietta, Ga.

Mr. @ Mrs. Brainard J. (Judd)
Hartman ’85, a daughter, Layton,
on Aug. 14, 1993. ‘The family lives
in Charleston, W.Va.

Mrs. Rebecca E. Monte ’85L,
and her husband, Joseph, a son,
Andrew Philip, on Feb. 2, 1993. He
joins a sister, Sarah. ‘The family lives
in Buffalo, N.Y.

Mr. @ Mrs. W. Jay Swiatek
"85L, a daughter, Virginia M., on
April 20, 1993. She joins a sister,
Molli Jane. ‘The family lives in
Mansfield, Mass.

Mr. @ Mrs. Craig B. Courtney
*86, ason, Timothy Andrew, on
June 18, 1993. He joins a brother,
Craig. ‘The family lives in Greens-
boro, N.C., where Courtney is em-
ployed by AMF Bowling Centers.

Mr. © Mrs. Richard P. (Pat)
Ferguson ’86, ason, Palmer
Wood, on Aug. 4, 1992. He joins a
sister, Austin. The family lives in
Charlottesville, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. William R.
Hemphill Jr. ’86, ason, William
Rushing (Rush) III, on May 30,
1993. ‘The family lives in Austin,
‘Texas.

52

Mr. © Mrs. William King ’86,
a son, William Harrison, on June 7,
1993. Harrison’s godfather is
Stewart Speed °86. ‘The family lives
in Birmingham.

Mr. © Mrs. Matson L. Roberts
*86, ason, Matson Lamar Jr., on
May 22, 1993. The family lives in
Roanoke.

Mr. @ Mrs. John C. Spear ’86,
a son, John Christopher Jr., on July
28, 1993. He joins a sister, Marie.
The family recently moved to
Matthews, N.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Kirk TenEyck ’86,
a son, Peter Fariss, on May 20, 1993.
The family lives in Cincinnati.

Mr. William E. Blackstone
"86L @ Mrs. Elizabeth
Kennedy Blackstone ’87L,

a son, William Emory Jr., on March
16, 1993. The family lives in
Nashville.

Mr. ©@ Mrs. Steve Dellett ’86L,
a son, Thomas Sheldon, on May 17,
1993. The family lives in Houston.

Mr. © Mrs. Brian G. Howland
"86L, a daughter, Caley Campbell,
on June 22, 1993. The family lives
in Doylestown, Pa.

Mr. © Mrs. Kevin T. Anderson
’87, a daughter, Sarah ‘Tyler, on
April 29, 1993. The family lives in
Raleigh, N.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. C. David Dickey
*87, ason, Charles Alexander, on
May 19, 1993. The family lives in
Lawrenceville, N.J.

Mr. © Mrs. Timothy J.
Finnerty °87, a daughter, Kelsey
Erin, on June 15, 1993. The family
lives in Centerville, Va.

Mrs. Elizabeth Kennedy
Blackstone ?87L
See William E. Blackstone ’86L.

Mr. © Mrs. Mark Farley ’88,
a son, Mark McLaughlin, on May 7,
1993. The family lives in Pittsburgh.

Mr. © Mrs. Christopher J.
O’Brien ’88L, a daughter, Casey
Leigh, on May 25, 1993. The family
lives in Amherst, N.Y., where
O’Brien is a civil and criminal
defense litigator with the firm of
Corey J. Hogan & Associates.

Mr. © Mrs. John Harvey ’89,
a daughter, Kelsey Ann, on March
21, 1993. Harvey was recently pro-
moted to credit examination officer
with Bank South in Georgia.

Mr. @ Mrs. Harry H.H.
Penner Ill °91, a daughter,
Abigail Elizabeth, on June 15, 1993,
in Manhasset, N.Y. Penner is a LAN
administrator for a New York law
firm and anticipates graduating from

New York University in December
with a master’s degree in computer
science.

in Memoriam

Dr. William M. Miller °12,
retired Presbyterian missionary,
died July 7, 1993, in Germantown,
Pa. Miller was a member of the Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity and Phi
Beta Kappa at W&L. He was also
president of the YMCA. Miller
remained at W&L for a fifth year to
earn a master’s degree, during which
time he was elected Executive
Committee president. He received
an honorary Doctor of Divinity
degree from W&L in 1932. In 1914,
Miller entered Princeton
‘Theological Seminary. He interrupt-
ed his studies in 1916 to become
secretary for the YMCA chapters in
the colleges of the Middle Atlantic
states. Miller returned to Princeton
in 1918 and graduated from the
seminary that year. He was ordained
in 1916 as a minister of the Pres-
byterian Church. In 1919, Miller
sailed for Persia with eight other
missionaries. He remained in
‘Tehran for a year, studying Persian
and teaching a class in a mission
school for boys. He then traveled to
Meshed, where he joined six other
missionaries. In 1932, Miller became
pastor of the Evangelical Church in
Iran. He was appointed by the
synod of the Evangelical Church as
chairman of the Board of
Evangelism with instructions to
train evangelists. Miller remained in
Iran until his retirement in 1962. He
then moved back to the United
States and settled in Philadelphia
with his wife of 38 years, Isabelle.
He lived there until her death in
1980, when he moved to the
Lutheran Home in Germantown,
Pa. During the 20 years following
his retirement he spoke more than
2,000 times throughout the country
on the work of Christian missions in
the Moslem world. He wrote and
published several books on the sub-
ject as well. In 1986, the Bell-
MacKay Prize was awarded to him
by the Covenant Fellowship of
Presbyterians. Miller was
Washington and Lee’s third-oldest
living alumnus at the time of his
death.

Frank B. Hurt ’23,

retired educator and historian, died
Feb. 16, 1993, in Ferrum, Va. After
graduating from W&L in 1923, Hurt
went On to earn a master of arts
degree in economics from the
University of Virginia and a master’s
in history from Princeton Univer-
sity. He completed doctoral studies
at Johns Hopkins University and
attended Harvard University during
summer sessions. In 1927, Hurt

 
  
  
 
  
  
  
    
 
   
   
  
    
   
  
 
    
 
   
  
    
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
    
  
    
 
 
    
   

went to Ferrum Training School as
an instructor. In 1930, he was 3
appointed an assistant Professor of :
political science at Western Mary.
land College, and in 1947 was pro- ‘
moted to associate professor and
head of Western Maryland’s depart.
ment of political science. Hurt ;
retired in 1965 after 35 years at
Western Maryland College and Was”
named professor emeritus. He and —
his wife returned to Ferrum and

Hurt accepted an appointment as
professor of history and head of the

division of social science at Ferrum
College. When he retired from
Ferrum in 1970, he was made pro-—
fessor emeritus. Throughout his _
professional career, Hurt was listed
in numerous publications includi
Who's Who in America. \n 1977, his
book titled A History of Ferrum
College was published. Hurt used the
proceeds from the sale of the book _
to establish a student scholarship —
fund. He published several other _
works dealing with the history of th
foothills of the Blue Ridge
Mountains and its people.

:

Henry W. Jones °24,

retired lumber executive, died J
30, 1993, in Memphis, Tenn. Jones
was a member of the Sigma Phi
Epsilon fraternity at W&L. Upon —
graduation in 1924, he began work- |
ing for the Bellgrade Lumber Co. in
Memphis. In 1940, Jones formed
the Willford & Jones Lumber Co., —
based in Memphis and operating
several mills in Mississippi. In 1943
the company took in a new partner
and became the Cathey-Willford- —
Jones Co. Jones served as vice presi-
dent, treasurer, and chairman of the
board before retiring in 1986.

Neil W. Riley °26,
retired founder and president of
Techsteel Inc., died April 28, 1992
in Atlanta, Ga.

Thomas L. Seehorn °26,
retired textile manager, died July

26, 1993. After graduation, Seehorn
played professional baseball for a_

few years, but gave it up in favor of
a business career. He worked for
Standard Oil Co. in Nashville and
Du Pont in Waynesboro, Va. Based
on his experience with Du Pont, —
Seehorn joined the American Enka
Co. in Morristown, Tenn. He
remained with the company until —
his retirement as manager of their
rayon textile operation in 1970.

J. Emerson Powell ’27,
died Sept. 26, 1988. Powell attenee
W&L from 1923 to 1925. He was 4
cartographic engineer with the U.S.
Forestry Service, a Mason, and a
member of the Ruritans.

Edwin N. Whitehead °27,

inventor, died June 12, 1993, in
Alexandria, Va. Whitehead was the
manufacturer of the first plastic

-

inated ‘dentification cards, holding
o atents in 1940 for the first cards
te fluorescent inks for security.
He went on to produce tags at his
Los Angeles facility for the Navy
and other defense agencies and
plants during WWII. He dominated
che industry until the 1950s, when
che instant Polaroid identity card
was perfected. Whitehead contin-
ued to invent and patent identity
processes, including a counterfeit-
proof passport document. In 1957,
he moved his business to the Wash-
ington area, here he produced ID
cards for the State Department and
Defense Agencies and other secure
installations. He retired as president
of Whitehead & Co. in 19885.

William C. Drewry 28,

retired vice president of the
Southern California Edison Co.,
died April 10, 1993, in Torrance,
Calif. Drewry was a member of
Kappa Sigma fraternity at W&L.
After graduating, he worked as an
electrical engineer with the Virginia
Electric and Power Co. until 1936
when he was promoted to district
manager, a position he held until
1942. Drewry served in the U.S.
Navy during WWII. Upon returning
to civilian life, Drewry moved to
California and began working for
the Southern California Edison Co.,
where he eventually became vice
president.

William E. Kershner ’29,
retired store manager, died April 20,
1993, in Charlotte. Kershner was a
member of the Sigma Nu fraternity
at W&L. He was a store manager for
Goodyear lire & Rubber Co. for 40
years in New Haven, Pittsburgh and
Buffalo, before retiring to Sun City,
Fla., in 1970. He moved to

Charlotte in 1991.

Dr. John P. Davis ’30,

retired physician, died June 12,
1993, in Winston-Salem, N.C. Davis
was a member of Delta Upsilon fra-
ternity at W&L. Upon graduation,
he went to the University of
Pennsylvania Medical School and
received his degree in 1934. From
1934 to 1937, Davis worked at
Philadelphia General Hospital and
in 1937, he opened a private prac-
tice in general medicine in Winston-
Salem. From 1941 to 1946, he
served in the Medical Corps of the
U.S. Army. In 1946, Davis returned
to his private practice, which he
©perated until 1964. Also during this
Period, he was an assistant professor
with Bowman Gray School of
Medicine at Wake Forest Univer-
sity. From 1964 until his retirement,
Davis was medical director with
Security Life and Trust Co. and
Integon insurance Corp. During his
fetirement, Davis enjoyed studying
art history at Salem College. He was
4 trustee at City Memorial Hospital

and Forsyth Memorial Hospital in
Winston-Salem.

Gray W. Hume Jr. °33,

former fiscal management officer for
the Internal Revenue Service, died
June 16, 1993, in Sarasota, Fla.
Hume was with the IRS from 1951
until 1968. He began his federal
career in 1933 with the Federal
Land Bank in Baltimore, then
served in the Navy during WWII.
After the war, he settled in the
Washington area and worked for the
Department of Agriculture and then
the General Accounting Office
before joining the IRS. On retiring
from the government, he was assis-
tant administrator of finance at
Alexandria Hospital in Virginia. He
was a member of Mount Vernon
Country Club.

Copeland E. Adams ’°33L,
retired Blackstone (Va.) lawyer, died
June 5, 1993. Adams received his
undergraduate degree from
Hampden-Sydney College in the
spring of 1931 and came to law
school at W&L a few months later.
He was a member of Phi Delta Phi
legal fraternity at W&L. After grad-
uation, Adams returned to his home-
town of Blackstone, where he prac-
ticed law until his retirement. A for-
mer mayor of Blackstone, Adams ran
for the State Senate in 1948. He was
a member of the Rotary Club and
the Presbyterian Church.

J. Jerome Framptom Jr. ’33L,
retired lawyer and funeral home
operator, died May 25, 1993, in
Seaford, Del. Frampton was a mem-
ber of Phi Alpha Delta legal fraterni-
ty at W&L. He was an associate in
the law firm of Miles and O’Brien in
Baltimore and a member of the
Virginia and Maryland Bar Associa-
tions, and the owner of Framptom
Funeral Home before retiring in
1972. Framptom also served as pres-
ident of the Maryland State Board of
Education from 1958 to 1976.

The Hon. John W. Rice ’33L,
retired judge and lawyer, died June
27, 1993 in Winchester, Va. Rice
opened a law practice in Winchester
with his father in 1933 which he
closed last May. He presided as
judge over the Winchester Muni-
cipal Court from 1942 to 1978 and
was commissioner of accounts from
1950 until last April. Rice was a
charter member of the Winchester
Exchange Club and a member of
Christ Episcopal Church.

David R. Dillon ’37L,

retired manager of Rural Hill Farms
in Martinsburg, W.Va., died June 16,
1993, in Martinsburg. After graduat-
ing from law school in 1937, Dillon
worked for U.S. Sen. Matthew M.
Neely of West Virginia for two and a
half years. He then worked as an

im Farrar 49: 1925-1993

James DuBois Farrar 49, former dean of admissions at

Washington and Lee, died Aug. 24 at Stonewall Jackson

Hospital in Lexington. He was 67.

 

Farrar returned to W&L in 1952 as assistant to the dean of
students. During the next few years he assumed a variety of
duties, and in 1962, he was named associate dean of admis-
sions. A year later, he became associate dean of students and
director of admissions. In 1978, he designed and implemented
W&L’s alumni admissions program. From 1987 until his retire-
ment in 1990, he was associate director of special programs.

A native of Old Greenwich, Conn., Farrar received his B.A.
in English literature from Washington and Lee, which he had
entered after serving as a sergeant in the U.S. Marine Corps in
the Pacific theater during World War II. (Farrar was again
called into service with the Marines during the Korean con-
flict.) He was a member of Delta Tau Delta fraternity; Phi Eta
Sigma, a national honorary scholastic society; and Omicron
Delta Kappa, the national leadership fraternity. As a student he
was class vice president, belonged to the Cotillion Club and

**s

the “13” Club, and was co-captain of the varsity tennis team.

Well known in the community for his interest in sports and
young people, Farrar was a longtime football official with the
Virginia High School League. He also helped coach the Maury
River Middle School lacrosse team and was a tutor and substi-
tute teacher. At a memorial service held Aug. 26—on what
would have been Farrar’s 68th birthday—acting University
chaplain Thomas V. Litzenburg ’57 read the following tribute:

Jim Farrar was to all/a good and faithful friend.

We who knew him best as/teacher and counselor

Forever will remember/a kind and loving man

for whom service to his beloved a/ma mater/and to those

under his care/seemed the worthiest of callings.

By those lives he touched/and thereby changed,

He will be sorely missed/and never forgotten.

We will care for him always,

And our fondest remembrances/will be of a mentor and

friend,/great of heart/and generous of spirit,

Who so very much cared for us.

53

attorney with the U.S. General
Accounting Offices until early in
1943. Unsatisfied with his life as a
Washington lawyer, Dillon returned
to his hometown of Martinsburg to
manage Rural Hill Farms, which he
later came to own. He was a 25-year
member of the county Committee
on Agriculture Conservation and a
charter member of the board of
directors of the L. Norman Dillon
Farm Museum.

Joseph M. Taylor °37,

former manager with Fidelity and
Deposit Co. of Maryland, died May
27, 1993, in Richmond. After gradu-
ation, Taylor went on to earn his
MBA from Harvard University’s
School of Business in 1939. He then
joined the Fidelity and Deposit Co.
of Maryland, but left to serve in the
Marine Corps from 1941 to 1946. As
executive officer of the Presidential
Marine Corps Guard at Shangri-La
(now known as Camp David) for
two years, his responsibilities
included the protection of President
Franklin D. Roosevelt there and at
Warm Springs, Ga. Upon returning
to civilian life, Taylor rejoined the
Fidelity and Deposit Co., where he
remained for 42 years, holding posi-
tions with their branches in New
Orleans, Greensboro and Richmond.

Harry F. Carey °38,

retired transportation operator, died
July 19, 1993, in Hendersonville,
N.C. Carey was a member of Pi
Kappa Phi fraternity and served as
president his senior year. He
worked for the New York Central
Railroad for 25 years and the Port
Authority of New York and New
Jersey in marine operations for 10
years. An Army veteran, he served
in later years as a volunteer for the
Hospice of Henderson County and
the VA Medical Center.

Sterling P. Owen III 38,
former tobacco buyer and mayor of
Cynthiana, Ky., died recently. Owen
was a member of Pi Kappa Alpha
fraternity at W&L.

Floyd O. Campbell ’39,

retired senior X-ray technician, died
Feb. 10, 1993, in Salem, Va.
Campbell attended W&L during
the 1935-36 academic year and left
to serve two years with the Chesa-
peake & Ohio Hospital in Clifton
Forge, Va., where he learned clinical
laboratory and X-ray techniques. He
then moved to Chicago, where he
trained at the General Electric X-ray
Corp., before moving back to Vir-
ginia. Campbell returned to work for
the Va. State Health Department's
Bureau of ‘Tuberculosis Control,
where he remained until his retire-
ment more than 50 years later.

Joseph Hunter °40,
retired engineering company execu-
tive, died Aug. 3, 1993, in St. Louis,

54

Mo. Hunter was a member of Delta
Upsilon fraternity at W&L. He
retired in 1978 as president and a
director of Hunter Engineering in
Bridgeton, Mo. At the time of his
death, Hunter was also president
and director of Hunter-Allen Farms
Inc. of Silkeston, Mo. He was a for-
mer director of the West Side
National Bank and the Northern
Atlantic Insurance Co.

Lupton Avery °41,

retired bottling company executive,
died Oct. 10, 1991, in Chattanooga,
‘Tenn. Avery was a member of Phi
Delta Theta fraternity at W&L. He
served in the South Pacific during
World War II before returning home
to work for the Chattanooga Glass
Company. Avery was director of
advertising and public relations for
the company. He was a past presi-
dent of the Chattanooga
Manufacturers Association and a
member of the Rotary Club, the
Cotillion Club, the Mountain City
Club, the Chattanooga Golf &
Country Club and the Signal
Mountain Golf Club.

C. Harvey Conover °41,
retired chief probation officer, died
July 4, 1993, in Point Pleasant, N.J.
Conover was a member of Sigma
Phi Epsilon fraternity at W&L. He
received a B.A. from Bridgewater
College in 1942 and served in the
U.S. Army Signal Corps during
World War II. Conover received his
J.D. degree in 1948 from Rutgers
University, and retired in 1990 as
chief probation officer for Ocean
County, where he had worked for 33
years.

Carl L. Varner °41,

retail furniture dealer, died Aug. 10,
1992, in Lexington, Va. Varner was a
member of the Commerce Club and
the Christian Council at W&L. He
worked as an accounting clerk for
the Greyhound Corp. in West
Virginia until 1952, when he
returned to Lexington to run a retail
furniture store, Varner and Pole,
which had been in his family for
three generations.

Frank C. Bedinger Jr. °41L,
attorney, died Feb. 9, 1993, in
Boydton, Va. Bedinger was a mem-
ber of Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity,
the Law Review and the Executive
Committee at W&L. He was a spe-
cial agent with the FBI from 1941 to
1944 and served in the U.S. Marine
Corps from 1944 to 1946. Upon
returning to Boydton in 1946,
Bedinger was mayor of the town for
two years before joining his father’s
law firm in 1948. He was senior part-
ner with Bedinger & Bedinger at
the time of his death. He was a
trustee of Community Memorial
Hospital, a charter member of the
Boydton Volunteer Fire Depart-
ment, and a past president of the

Mecklenburg County Bar
Association.

Thomas D. Agnor °44,

retired accountant, died Nov. 11,
1991, in Belspring, Va. After gradu-
ating in 1944, Agnor worked in the
offices of C.W. Barger’s Limestone
Quarry in Lexington until 1945
when he became the plant manager
for Cassco Corp. After leaving
Cassco in 1959, Agnor joined Inland
Motor Corp. in Radford, Va., where
he was an accountant.

William Mclndoe Jr. °44,
retired California employment secu-
rity officer, died June 8, 1993, in
Sausalito, Calif. McIndoe began his
freshman year at W&L with the
Class of 1944, but left in 1943 to
serve in the U.S. Navy. He returned
to Washington and Lee in Septem-
ber 1946 and graduated with the
Class of 1947. At W&L, McIndoe
was a member of the Glee Club and
Phi Kappa Psi fraternity.

Thomas E. Petriken °44,
physicist, died April 4, 1992. After
graduating in 1944, Petriken
entered the Air Force as a radio
operator-gunner. In 1946, he began
working with the U.S. Picatinny
Arsenal in Dover, N.J., as a physicist
and began working toward his mas-
ter’s degree in physics from New
York University. Petriken complet-
ed his degree in February 1953.
During the period from 1951 to
1953, he was employed by the
National Bureau of Standards in
Washington, D.C. In 1953, he
joined the U.S. Army Electronics
Command in Fort Monmouth, N.].,
where he became a supervisory
physicist.

Roger R. Kimball °45,

retired owner of R.H. Kimball Co.,
died June 2, 1993, in Hingham,
Mass. Kimball was a member of
Delta ‘Tau Delta fraternity at W&L.
He was vice president and regional
sales manager for the Bibb Co.
before owning the R.H. Kimball Co.

Llewellyn B. Martin °49, °51L,
attorney, died May 16, 1993, in
Bethesda, Md. Martin was a mem-
ber of Beta Theta Pi fraternity and
the Sigma Society as an undergradu-
ate and of Phi Alpha Delta legal fra-
ternity during law school. During
World War II, he served in the Army
Corps of Engineers in the South
Pacific. He had been a senior part-
ner in the Washington (D.C.) law
firms of Pope, Ballard & Loos and
Holland & Knight. For the last
three years, he had practiced inde-
pendently. Martin had been chair-
man of the advisory council of
Greater Washington Educational
‘Television Inc. He was a 32nd
degree Mason and a member of the
‘Temple Noyes-Cathedral Lodge
and the Royal Order of Jesters.

   

J. Champe Raftery ’491,
attorney and former delegate to the
Arizona House of Representatiy
died Feb. 5, 1993, in Phoenix, Ariz.
Raftery was a member of Phj Delta
Phi legal fraternity at W&L. After
graduation, he moved to Arizona
and began practicing law in
Phoenix. In 1953, Raftery was elect.
ed to the Arizona House of Repre-
sentatives for a two-year term.
Raftery continued to practice law,
becoming a partner in the Phoenix
law firm of Raftery and Makemson
in 1955 where he worked until his
retirement.

Charles J. Jack ’51,

retired construction superintendent,
died July 30, 1993, in Morgantown,
W.Va. Jack lived in Martinsburg,
W.Va., where he was a member of
the Martinsburg Lodge No. 120,
Loyal Order of the Moose, and St.
John’s Lutheran Church.

James P. Morefield ’52L,
president of South ‘Texas Abstract
Service, died Aug. 5, 1993, in
Houston. Morefield was a member
of Phi Alpha Delta legal fraternity
and the Howard Roger Legal
Society at W&L. He also served as
vice president of his class. Withina _
year after finishing law school, he __
was an examining attorney for the
Southern Title Co. in 1953, and by
1956 he was owner and executive
vice president of Security Title Co.
He sold his interest in 1958 and
with his wife, Barbara, formed the
South Texas Abstract Service. The
Morefields helped hundreds of at-
risk children in Houston’s inner city
through their work with the Rotary
Boys and Girls Club, and received
the Club’s Fourth Humanitarian
Award in 1989. A longtime support-
er of W&L’s academic mission, }
Morefield left a bequest in his will
to create the James P. Morefield
Professorship in the School of Law.

Tapes *

  
  

Richard B. Gwathmey °56,
general manager of the St. Joe 1
Container Corp., died July 20, 1993,
in Rock Hill, S.C. Gwathmey was 4
member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity
and the lacrosse team at W&L. ;
Gwathmey was a salesman with the
West Virginia Pulp and Paper Co. in
Maryland before joining the St. Joe —
Paper Co. in the container division —
in South Carolina. In 1959, he

moved to Atlanta to become sales
manager of the company’s box plant
in College Park, eventually becom-_
ing general manager.

The Hon. Gavin G.K. Letts
"524i;

chief judge of the State Court of
Appeals in Palm Beach, Fla., died —
Aug. 1, 1993, in Palm Beach. Letts
was a member of Omicron Delta
Kappa and the Law Review at W

 

 

   

e was an attorney with the West
ach law firm of Woods &
Cobb for many years before serving
as municipal judge in Palm Beach
from 1972 to 1976. In 1977, Letts
was elected to the appeals court. He
served two terms and was on the
court until his death. Letts was
nominated twice for the state
Supreme Court during the 1980s.
He was widely respected for his
work in family law and civil rights
Jaw and was also known for his legal

H
Palm Be

writings.

Dr. Ralph W. Baucum Ir. “56,
physician and instructor, died July 7,
1993, in Shreveport, La. Baucum
was a member of Beta Theta Pi fra-
rernity at W&L. He received his
medical degree from the Louisiana
State School of Medicine in 1962,
then took a residency in pediatrics
and a fellowship in cardiology at
Charity Hospital in New Orleans
before returning to Shreveport and
assuming a position at Confederate
Memoria! Center in 1967. Baucum
joined the faculty of the LSU

School of Medicine in Shreveport at
its inception in 1968 and was profes-
sor of pediatrics and chief of cardiol-
ogy at the time of his death. In 1972,
he was instrumental in starting the
Cooper Road Clinic, for which he
received a special Humanitarian
Award by the National Council of
Christians and Jews.

Frank Payne Il ’58,

retired economic development
director of the Delaware County
Chamber of Commerce, died Feb.
10, 1993, in Media, Pa. Payne
attended W&L during the 1954-55
academic year and was a member of
Phi Kappa Psi fraternity. He
received his bachelor’s degree from
Bethany College in West Virginia in
1962. Payne was a delegate to the
U.S. China Joint Session on Indus-
try, Trade and Economic Develop-
ment and attended the first eco-
nomic development session in the
former Soviet Union.

William A. Tyler ’75,

software programmer, died July 2,
1993, in Atlanta. Tyler attended
W&L during the 1971-72 academic
year,

Missing Persons

Vhe following individuals are
listed as “unlocated” in
Washington and Lee's alumni
records. If you have a current
address for any of these alum-
"1, please do us—and them—a
favor and send word to the
Alumni Office, Washington

and Lee University, Lexington,
VA 24450.

Class of ’44
Lawrence E. Englert
William J. Forrestel
Richard Harding

B. Allen Henry Jr.

Dr. Charles M. Johnson
Charles M. Keeling
‘Thomas M. Lewis
John T. Reynolds Jr.
William J. Robertson Jr.
Henry H. Schewel
Richard A. Shimko
David T. Snell

Leroy J. Stephens
Lloyd L. Ward

George A. Williams Jr.

Class of °44L

Benjamin P. Brown Jr.

Class of ’49
Blake Atwood

Frank A. Blyth
William B. Bourne
Robert H. Carr Jr.
John T. Chandler
John E. Clegg
Andrew B. Dillard
John C. Dillon

Dr. Bruce H. Donald
Everett C. Easter Jr.
Falconer R. Gilbert
Alexander E. Graham
Bert Graham

Forest W. Gray Jr.
Carleton E. Greenwood
James C. Hanks
‘Thomas R. Kay

J. Harrison Lassiter
Dewey L. Mitchell
Beverly M. Owens
John M. Parramore
Hayes G. Robinson
Richard W. Rodgers
Rush D. Shuman
Luther B. Smith
Joseph S. Sullivan
Jack L. ‘Taylor
‘Thomas W. Tucker
Edward R. Vaden
‘Thomas Willingham Jr.

Class of °49L
James F. Feeney
Ernest S. Langley
George W. Reed Jr.
Charles B. ‘Tebbs

Class of ’54

Reid E. Baker

Irwin P. Carlson

David W. Cummings
John L. Daniel

Robert W. Dickey
Wallace M. Heuser

J. Ira Laird Jr.

Maj. James W. Lett
Humberto J. Llorens Jr.
Fred C. MacSorley
Robert B. Miller
Michael P. Mohler
Capt. James M. Moriarty
Kenneth S. Murray
John G. O’Brien
Ronald W. Phillips

Marvin D. Pierce III
John D. Ray Jr.
Rudolph J. Schaefer III
George T. Sheftall
Roderick G. Smith
Royal S. Vilas

Class of ’54L

Clifford F. Malley II
James A. Oast Jr.

Class of ’59
Ernest H. Alter
Samuel D. Atkins Jr.
Edward W. Bice
Richard A. Bowis
Joseph T. Brennan III
Gaston Z. Brown Jr.
Howard S. Buhl
William R. Chilton
Robert P. Davis
‘Thomas P. Degnon
Robert N. Evans
Eugene N.S. Girard II
Charles G. Hayden Jr.
‘Thomas Mandey
John ‘T. Manning
Francis M. Mantz III
Donald J. McGeehan
William C. Meglitz
Burr C. Miller III
James W. Moore
Charles D. Moriarta
Albert E. Schlesinger
Martin I. Slater
Charles J. Stock
George S. ‘Tatman Jr.
Marvin I. Walton Jr.
Otis ‘T. Williamson
Lt. Col. William E. Wright
Edwin J.S. Young Jr.

Class of ’59L

Samuel A. Gay

Class of ’64
William D. Bell Jr.
Richard I.H. Belser
William L. Cromley
Charles R. Dennis

Bill E. Evans

Kenneth G. Everett
Richard C. Heard
Andrew C. Hyde

Capt. Robert E. Lee
Jack C. Martin

Douglas S. McEvoy
Louis B. Mongeau
George H. Priggen III
Robert H. Robinson Jr.
William M. Robinson Jr.
John P. Schubert

Dr. Dwight S. Shumate Jr.
George T. Sisler

John J. Smith Jr.
William P. Tedards Jr.
Gary M. Underhill Jr.
William L. Van Dyke III
John P. Welsh

Dr. James E. Wilkerson

Class of ’64L

Robert O. Coyle
James E. Shafer

Class of ’69
Houston C. Armstrong
Richard L. Battin
Robert W.J. Brennan
Howard A. Cohn
William H. Craft
Edward O. Driscoll
Brent J. Foreman
William M. Ginn

John M. Hosford
Ogden K. Houstoun III
Rogers H. Israel Jr.
Asbury W. Jones
Geoffrey S. Kuhn
Carlisle M. Landreth
Dr. Steven A. Larson
Charles R. Lohrman Jr.
Mark D. McGaughey
William H. Montgomery III
Parker H. Moore
Martin F. Mullin

Dr. Thomas M. Newman
James S. Reiley

James D. Rush

Ernst Schuegraf

David E. Schuster
Benjamin A. Schwartz
Peveril O. Settle III
Gordon P. Sharpless
Richard R. Sweeney
Peter L. ‘Tesche
William S.G. Walker IV
Warren E. Wicke
Philip K. Youritzin

Class of "69L
Kim P. Ladewig
Robert C. McLaughlin

Class of °74
Scott S. Ainslie

Larry Alexander
Byng E. Armstrong
Milton E. Ashburn
Edward J. Austin III
Gary L. Avery
Stephen A. Baker
John N. Benziger
Steve R. Blackwell
Henry A. Bowen
Drew D. Calvin
Christopher P. Cavaliere
Paul R. Delle

Dr. Harry J. Depan
Steven J. Erickson
McClellan E. Fellows
L. Claude Fouracre
Julian S. Fulcher III
Michael W. Hammond
Martin D. Henry
David H. Horne
Brian C. Howard

Dr. Bruce I. Hyatt
Leonard Z. Kaufmann
David M. Lawson
John E. Loesing
Kevin K. MacDougall
Parke L. Martin
James H. McCord IV
Ralph A. McIntosh
John H. Missert Jr.
Warren J. Moore
Herbert F. Munt III
Mark A. Naideck
John L. Patterson

55

John J. Philips Jr.
Clayton T. Ramsay
David J. Reingold
William A. Rowe III
Maj. Kenneth W. Roy
George L. Ryan
David S. Seaton
Marshall H. Seitz

Dr. Wright D. Shields
Earl B. Simpson III
Harry L. Smith
William G. Smith
John P. Steves

Robert M. ‘Turco
Robert N. Waddell III
Christopher A. Ward
John L. White

Gary L. Williams

Andrew Graham Wright Jr.

Class of ?74L,

William R. Leonard

Larry N. Nau

James J. Robertson

Capt. Walter C. ‘Turner Jr.

Class of ’79
David ‘T. Adams

Dr. Douglas H. Adams
Robert S. Bates

James D. Berlin

‘Todd M. Bonanza
Paul L. Chastain

J. Jefferson Copper

C. Edward Crumb

Dr. ‘Tyrone Lee Daniels
Scott D. Devening
Richard R. Geppert

Dean S. Greenberg

J. Bartlett Haddad

J. Christopher Haley
John E. Jacobsen
Christopher W. Kearney
‘Timothy P. Kelley
David M. Kent
Steven S. Knisely
Larry S. Lacina
Broward T.H. Liston
Jay A. Lutins

Russell L. Martin III
John E. McDonald Jr.
Victor L. Mitchell II
Michael L. Odom
Keith B. Romich
Walter A. Scott
Robert W. Seay
Robert J. Serban
John S. Voit

David M. Waldeck
Morgan W. Walker III
George B. West III
Bruce A. Williams
Roger M. Yale

James S. Young

Class of ’79L

Albert F. Ettinger
Frank A. Lafalce Jr.
Emily Reid

Robert E. Shurack
Scott E. ‘Tinnon
Michael D. ‘Tyron
William M. Walls

Class of ’84
Phillip C. Aiken

James R. Carawan
Matthew C. Clayton

G. Peyton Craighill
David E. Dehay

John W. Dindinger
Richard M. Dunn III
Christopher C. Flaesch
Foster S.B. Friedman
Andrew E. Gates
Jeffrey S. Gee

Matthew D. Golden
Scott J. Grow

Mare A. Ham

Grant D. Hamrick

Lee H. Heimert

Kirk W. Holmes
Thomas L. Hyde

James W. Irwin

Charles G. Kalocsay
Capt. Laurence D. Keeley
Douglas D. Kuhn

Capt. Andrew J. MacLellan
Jeffrey W. Maddox
Ronald R. Magee
Randolph S. McClain
David J. Oskam

Everett C. Parker

Ist Lt. Timothy P. Rock
David K. Salsbury
Christopher J. Simandl
Roland J. Simon

Ist Lt. Stephen J.A. Smith
James E. Spiro Jr.
Robert A. Stephen

Eric G. Storey

William A. Thau III
Murray R. ‘Titterington
Charles M. ‘Turner

William A. Vaughan Jr.
George H. Weatherly Jr.
Dana L. Webb

Class of ’84L

Margaret J. Freund
S. Joy Gray

Peter Mallory

David H. Pennington
Gayle Carter Radder
Andrea M. ‘Tatz

Class of ’89
‘Thomas B. Brickel
‘Thomas A. Bullotta
William G. Clark Jr.
'T. Gregory Dale
Pedro J. deMovellan
David W. Dietz
Umberto E. Erculiani
Edward J. Gallagher Jr.
Donald J. Hatfield
W.P. Reed Howlett
Rhona M. Hughes
Stephanie T. Lake
Robert E. Lutz
Ellynn M. Rosenthal
‘Thomas B. Ryan
Merrill T. Sparago

D. Scott Trimble
Kevin L. Yeager

Class of ’89L
Harry Lewis Clark
Kathleen A. Deppe
Brady Lee Green
Mark Douglas Stiles
Lisa A. Wellman

 

W A

I N G

O

N AnwwGNé who BD lL... -& ae

Armchairs and Rockers

 

 

BOSTON
ROCKER
Black lacquer
oT

Dark pine $220

 

ARMCHAIR
Black lacquer with
cherry arms

or

Dark pine $235

‘The Boston Rocker requires some assembly.
Prices include freight charges.

 

 

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed
in black lacquer or dark pine stain. The five-color crest of
the University is painted on the back of each chair or rocker.
‘They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture and are
welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas, birthdays, gradu-
ation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John
Graham °14.

To order: Include your name, address, your tele-
phone number, and a telephone number, if known, for the
delivery location. Indicate chair or rocker and color. Make
check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Please allow 6-8

weeks for delivery.

MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

“ae

 

 

The Washington and Lee University

ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Lexington, Virginia 24450

ras
————

$$
ee in A ——
a he]
oé
, Tr -
. -

See SS
ae aT

eee eee

“

>
ee

<

Non-Profit Org,
U.S. Postage
P ASS
Permit # 161

Lynchburg, VA

 

