The Washington and Lee University Alumni Magazine
WINTER 1996

 
  
   
   

*orge Washington:
Father of Philanthropy

Generals vs, Keydets:

i¢ Games Resume

SO UeeNaNCannS

TAMNnTeory)

 

Philadelphia Newscaster Cecily Tynan Badger ’91

 

     
  

WEL senior
takes it on ti
VMI’s Jason Be
AAAs cate i.

a at 4
P.. ee . ‘ rs . ft io on
Pr a : re. pe ,
Oe. } Ree rss st
= Fal eee a ; . . — vc
Ra ow Pe nee F ne nl” LN ad

7a

ARSE E LO, OE LOO

as ;

 

 

 

Volume 70, Number 4 Winter 1996

amaaiine ®

 

The St. Louts Cardinals this season
will sport a new batting order on the

field and new owners in the bleachers,
including Drew Baur ’66. Page 26.

 

Clery nt?
COURT CASE

There’s nothing wrong with your

picture. That is Doug Harwood ’74,
editor of the Rockbridge Advocate,
in his new role as TV pundit. Page 9.

er ny

 

Generals H. Frederick T. Moore ’80
(left) and J. Clay Crumbliss ’80 put
the “W@L Swing” into Chattanooga’s
Swing-Ding Tournament. Page 30.

On the cover: WPVI-TV Philadelphia
reporter Cecily Tynan ’91, a former
WDBJ intern/reporter, is photographed
on the Action News set by Joe Rubino.

 

h

10 / “The Warmest Wishes of My Heart.”
Washington’s gift 200 years ago to a struggling Liberty Hall Academy

set a course of survival that has never been forgotten at the University.

14 / Keydets-Generals.
While their first matchup in 54 years was no buzzer-beater, spirited play

and half-naked fans made the W&L-VMI game an affair to remember.

18 / 3L.
Six student leaders from W&L’s Law Class of ’96 talk about three years

in a “space station,” their expectations for the profession, and Lexington.

21 / The 7 Connection.
In 1969, Roanoke anchorman Ron MacDonald left the WDBJ newsroom
for the W&L classroom. But he brought the spirit of the station with him.

26 / Play Baur!

St. Louis banker Drew Baur °66, an avid Cardinals fan since childhood,

fulfills a lifelong fantasy as part of baseball’s newest ownership team.

ART MENT

2 / From the Alumni President.

Spouses, children, faculty, community: W&L’s extended family.

3 / Letters.

Remembering the one about “Dean Harry” Campbell and the trilobite.

4 / The Colonnade.

Emptying out, boxing up, and getting ready for the new science center.
Also: President Elrod reflects on 10 years of coeducation; Mock Con

takes its politics online; and junior Nathan Hottle swims to NCAA glory.

28 /W&L Law.

Moot court competitors debate the merits of VMI’s coeducation case;

Michael Bongiorno °81L brings law and order to a troubled D.A.’s office.

30 / Alumni News.
After getting caught in a sandtrap, so to speak, in 1994 and 1995,

the W&L Open eyes a teeoff date at The Homestead this June.
33 / Annual Fund.
Alumni giving by undergraduate and law classes so far this year.

34 / Class Notes.

Chip Mahan °74 ushers online banking into the home-computer age;

Roland Chase °95 catches a draft after graduation; and hundreds more.

48 / Last Word.
Our man at Go/f Digest, Mike Stachura ’86, recounts his first W&L Open.

 

From the Alumm President

Washington and Lee’s Extended Family

   
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  

‘The most rewarding aspect of serving Washington and Lee—whether it’s thro
chapter activities, Annual Fund work, or serving as your Alumni Association pre
dent—is without a doubt the exposure to other friends of the University. And I de
mean any one of the roughly 19,000 alumni whom
always a pleasure to encounter. There are so many oth
—spouses, children, faculty, staff, and friends of t
University—for whom Washington and Lee is a sense
pride. Truly this can be considered Washington a
Lee’s extended family.

You know the people I’m talking about. Spouses
whom the mention of the Zollmans Pavilion brings b
memories of college weekends spent in Lexing
Children who get caught up in the excitement of a spc
event. The professors who devote their professional li
to the education of ourselves and our children, and y
open the doors and their hearts to familiar faces on <
alumni weekend. The parents who think of the school
a second home for four years of their son’s or daughter’s lives. When you think abc
it in these terms, the W&L experience extends well beyond those who have stuc
in its classrooms. ;

There’s an attitude about this place, I know, that’s hard to put into words but
readily identifiable by people’s actions. Whether it’s the Co-Op cashier dealing wit
disgruntled student at 7 a.m. or the president of the University stopping to lister
any and all “concerns” of alumni passing by, the courtesy with which it is done
the sense of community is remarkable. j

At your next reunion, I urge you to attend the joint annual meeting of the Alur
Association and Law Council on Saturday morning in Lee Chapel. Listen closel
the recitation of our Distinguished Alumni Award recipients. Each one, in his or
own way, embodies the Washington and Lee spirit in their professional and
accomplishments. I also encourage you to attend a local alumni outing. Each
Washington and Lee’s 82 alumni chapters sponsor more than 150 events that br
alumni of all ages and our extended family together.

The ever-increasing attendance at each Reunion or Homecoming weekend ¢
heightens my sense of pride in this unique institution. For those of you who
presently active as an alumni volunteer in your community, I thank you and ence
age you to keep doing what you’re doing. Washington and Lee is an institution, y
but at its core beats the collective heart of all those whose lives it crosses.

 

E. Neal Cory I! ’77
President, WEL Alumni Association

_—

Letters

Interview with the Trilobite

| read with interest in the press of the
recent death of attorney Edmund D.
Campbell °18, ’22L, of Arlington, Va., a
champion of civil rights (page 47).

The obituary and laudatory editorial
in The Washington Post recalled to me my
acquaintance with Campbell’s father,
the late Professor Henry Donald Camp-
bell, when I was at W&L in the 1930s. I
took an excellent geology course from
“Dean Harry” in my freshman year,
given in a drafty third-floor room in
Washington Hall, looking down on Lee
Chapel. Wasps buzzed frequently
through the unscreened windows and
occasionally encircled his impressive
bald head, but the old man simply
waved his hand to shoo them off and
kept on talking.

In his lectures, Dean Harry some-
times held in one hand a trilobite—a
marine arthropod from the Paleozoic
Era—and conversed with it on the situa-
tion in Rockbridge County millions of
years ago, when the trilobite lived there.
“Little Trilobite,” he would say. “what
was the geology of Lexington like, mil-
lions of years ago when you lived here?”
Then, pulling the trilobite close to his
ear so he could hear it, he would
describe the geological changes that
took place in those long-ago ages.

If a wasp seemed to threaten his bald
dome during this conversation, Dean
Harry would patiently wave his free arm
above his head to scare it off, meanwhile
continuing his absorbing conversation
with the trilobite.

I often think of that dear old gentle-
man, who must have been in his late 70s
or 80s, serving usefully until his end. I
learned that he had been the son of a
Washington College professor who
served on the faculty under Robert E.
Lee. In fact, a photograph survives, I’m
told, of Henry Donald Campbell as a lit-
tle boy astride Traveller, at the invita-
tion of his elderly neighbor, the col-
lege’s president.

Dean Campbell was typical of the
many fine scholars who made Washing-
ton and Lee the great place that it is.

Parke Rouse Jr. °37
Williamsburg, Va.

Strike One!

In “What It Was, Was Baseball”
(Fall), the author writes that broadcaster
Ned Martin grew up in suburban Phila-
delphia, where “he watched the likes of
Jimmy Foxx and Mickey Cochrane play
in their prime for the Phillies.” Only
those named baseball greats didn’t play
for the Phillies. They played for Connie
Mack’s Athletics, as did Lefty Grove,
Jimmy Dykes, Al Simmons, and others.
In the era when the Athletics were win-
ning in the American League, the Phils
were lucky to finish sixth occasionally in
the National League. But at least the
Phillies still represent Philadelphia and
have had some great seasons lately.

Richard M. Herndon °41
Winter Springs, Fla.

You're right—and so was the author.
Charge the error to a sloppy copy editor.

Strike Two!

The account of the Alumni College
on baseball was especially interesting,
and it served its purpose in making me
wish I had been an attendee! I do feel
compelled, however, to point out that
the Field of Dreams lowa town is Dyers-
ville, not Diresville. The slip is under-
standable, perhaps, as many view orga-
nized baseball as being in dire straits!

Wiley W. Spurgeon Jr. °55
Muncie, Ind.

W&L /oves to get mail. Address corre-
spondence to: University Editor, Washington
and Lee, Publications Office, Lexington, VA
24450. Letters may also be faxed to (540)
463-8024. All letters should include the
author’s name, address, and daytime phone
number. Letters selected for publication may
be edited for length, content, and style.

 

The Colonnade

4 ~ rs ‘
\% LZ
-.
\ Sif

a

Ne
re,
a!

-
.

t

\
ria

> 2) __ eh
N

4
v\\
NS
=
w\ 5

!

FL
oe

/

KL
4

SS

ZI

y,

eAL__

\/
fx
si

 

eT XT)
-

 

Phase I of the University’s $22 million
science building program as it looked from
within (above) and under a couple of feet of
snow in January. “It’s all interior work
now,” explains science center coordinator

Frank Parsons °54.

Science Center Moves Toward June Occupancy
Chemistry, Geology Departments First to Have New Homes

Inside Howe Hall, the anticipation is building. With the help of a few dedicated
chemistry majors, professor Mike Pleva has begun packing up some of his labs: “Ag
we finish one lab, we’re emptying things, boxing up, and getting everything ready,
Geology professor Ed Spencer, meanwhile, won’t miss the last few months of cinder
blocked windows, grinding cranes, and diesel fumes: “It’s been topsy-turvy here.

 

 

 

 

Nevertheless, as construction on the new science center enters the “under-the-roo

”
>
.

stage, he says, “We're as excited as we can be about the move |

Barring any more unforeseen acts of nature (like the 30 inches of snow dumped 6
Lexington in January), the geology and chemistry departments will begin moving int
their new digs—the unnamed addition linking Howe and Parmly halls—soon afte
commencement exercises June 6.“So far, we’re still on schedule despite some 10s
time due to the snow,” says science center coordinator Frank Parsons ’54.

At the end of January, the new building—the centerpiece of a $22 million facility,
the largest capital building project in Washington and Lee history—was 60 to 65 per
cent complete, according to Parsons. “All the masonry work is done, the wallboard 1
going up, fume hoods are being installed in the various labs, and there is tempora
heat in the building.” Work is continuing on the central duct system and will begit
soon on the terrazzo floor of the main hall. And the scaffolding currently in the three
story central atrium was to come down just in time for a Feb. 9 tour by the W&
Board of ‘Trustees.

Once Howe is vacated in early summer, Turner Construction will begin work OF
Phase II—the nine-month “deep renovation” that will enable the biology am
physics/engineering departments to move into a like-new building. Phase II] involve!
around six months of renovation for Parmly—and a new home for the psychology ant
computer science departments.

“The consolidated science library in the new building will be available as geolog)
and chemistry move in, although it won’t be complete until Parmly is up and running
in 97,” Parsons says. Hugh Blackmer, currently reference librarian and coordinator @
bibliographic instruction at the Leyburn Library, has been named to the new position
of science librarian. He will plan and manage the newly consolidated library while
developing the University’s collection in all formats related to biology, chemisty
computer science, geology, mathematics, physics/engineering, and psychology.

The first few weeks after graduation
will be hectic—both departments have
lots of sensitive equipment like spec-
trometers and scanning electron micro-
scopes that will have to be moved by
company specialists—and in the case of
the geology department, there are lots
and lots of boxes full of rocks to lug.

But the payoff will be worth it.
According to Parsons, by fall semester
the first students will be able to walk
through the front door of the newest
addition to the University campus. And
that’s a welcome advance for the sci-
ences at Washington and Lee.

—By William Cocke ’82

Fancy Dress: March 22

Chairman Ashley Bell ’96 and her
committee are hard at work on plans for
the 89th Fancy Dress Ball, to be held on
Friday, March 22. Tickets this year are
$45 per couple, and invitations will be
mailed out March 3. Persons interested
in ticket information or getting on the
mailing list should contact Jennifer
Greenly °96 at (540) 463-5152.

 

“AAA AA
, ts {VO is
E i

Reflections on a Decade:
Elrod on Coeducation

Excerpts from President Elrod’s Founders’
Day remarks in Lee Chapel Jan. 19:

This bicentennial year of Washing-
ton’s gift is also the 10-year mark of
another profoundly important event in
Washington and Lee’s history—the
coeducation of the undergraduate divi-
sion of the University. Surely one of the
most important decisions ever made by
the Trustees, the University has been
richly rewarded in its first decade of
coeducation. Strengthened significantly
since the enrollment of women, the
University has risen in one short decade
to unprecedented levels of student
demand and to new heights of academic
excellence. In the 10th year of coeduca-
tion, we then have very good reason to
remember and celebrate the wisdom of
the trustee decision 11 years ago.

We may also be heartened by the
expanding leadership role being played
by women on this campus. Most of the
faculty can remember those first coedu-

an
”

 

f

[went undergraduates, seven law students, and five honorary initiates were tapped into
nation norary fraternity Omicron Delta Kappa during Founders’ Day ceremonies Jan. 19
in Lee Chapel. This year’s honorary initiates (shown above, /-r) are: advertising and public
relations executive Earle Palmer Brown ’44 of Potomac, Md., Lexington mortician and city
councilman J.B. (Benny) Lewis; Alan M. Corwin ’62, vice president of investments for Dean
Witter & Reynolds in ( Mympia, Wash.; Margaret Brouwer, composer-in-residence and associate
; + lessor of music at Washington and Lee; and the Hon. Roscoe B. Stephenson 43, °47L of
‘OVIN

1., @ member of the state Supreme Court since 1981.

cated classes and the role they played in
making a place for women in an institu-
tion that had been all-male for 236
years. Even though those transitional
years went more smoothly than we had
expected, it still was not an easy assign-
ment for those first classes. In retro-
spect, we may say that their role was to
help W&L become comfortable with
itself as a place where men and women
could study and play together, and they
did this very well.

Ten years later, W&L is not only a
much stronger institution of higher
learning, it is also a far more comfort-
able place where women may aspire to
the same levels of leadership enjoyed
by their male classmates. We see grow-
ing signs of it everywhere: in the class-
room and laboratory (three women have
been their class valedictorians, and our
one Rhodes Scholar in the last decade
was a woman); in the playing field; in
student government; in four thriving
sororities; in student organizations of all
sorts; within the faculty; and in the
accomplishments of the 926 undergrad-
uate alumnae.

The temptation here is to name
names of those women leaders in the
student body, on the faculty, in the
alumnae body. As important as women’s
individual successes have been what is
as important is the strengthening of the
institution by women’s presence here
and its enrichment through the special
leadership contributions women have
made and will make in the years ahead.

September Reunion Marks
Soccer’s 50th Anniversary

Plans are underway for a celebration
of the 50th anniversary of soccer at
Washington and Lee for the weekend
of Sept. 20 and 21. Current NCAA pres-
ident and former W&L soccer coach
Gene Corrigan has agreed to serve as
the keynote speaker at a Friday night
buffet. Saturday’s activities will include
a picnic luncheon, alumni games, and a
varsity double-header on the Liberty
Hall Fields. All former players will be
invited back for the festivities. For fur-
ther information, contact the Alumni
Office at (540) 463-8464.

Mock Con and Lacrosse
Sites New to the W&L Web

Political and sports junkies alike can
now satisfy their cravings by tapping
into Washington and Lee’s homepage
on the Internet (http://www.wlu.edu/).

Can’t make the Mock Republican
Convention on March 1-2? Try turning
to the page devoted to that quadrennial
parade of political prognostications at
(http://www.mockcon.wlu.edu/~mock
con/). Designer Mark Tobias °97 has it
all there—from a Quicktime movie of
former vice president and 1956 keynoter
Alben Barkley’s last words to a section
including this year’s speeches.

Hungry for up-to-date information on
W&L’s spring lacrosse season? ‘Tap into
(http://www.wlu.edu/~negorin/lax.html),
where sophomore defenseman Noah
Egorin has everything from the 1996
roster and schedule to a complete listing
of series, team, and individual records.
Preseason polls rank the Generals ninth
in the NCAA Division III.

Local Book Celebrates
Artists and Artisans

Sculptors Edward Virginius Valentine
and Mathew Kahle, artist Adalbert
Johann Volk, and photographer Michael
Miley are among the Washington and
Lee “names” included in a recently
published work detailing many of the
artifacts produced locally between 1750
and 1900. In Rockbridge County Artists ©
Artisans (University Press of Virginia;

 

 

Members of the Washington and Lee and Virginia Military Institute communities joined WUh®
members of the Threshold and Habitat for Humanity boards to break ground Jan. 27 on
w joint chapter of Habitat sponsored by W
Ceremony participants included (from left): Lad Sessions, acting dean of the college at WEL5¥
Maj. Gen. Josiah Bunting, VMI superintendent; WEL senior Nova Clarke; VMI Cadet Dave
Hudok; Threshold coordinator Joan Neel; Vicki Turner and the Rev. Rupert Strawbridge,

representing Threshold; and Kermit Rockett, representing the Rockbridge Habitat chapter.

the first house to be butlt by the ne

$62.50), Lexington authors Barbara
Crawford and Royster Lyle Jr. trace the
development and eventual decline of
many artisans’ activities through several
decades of successful manufacturing
into the post-Civil War years.

An index provides biographical infor-
mation on more than 400 artists and arti-
sans, the best known of whom may well
be Miley, whose son, Henry, noted in a
1941 interview that the photograph of

    
   
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
  

Gl, and VMI.

General Lee on Traveller was the mos
salable photograph that Father made ¢
him from direct life.” The boc
includes 15 color and 275 black-an
white illustrations of the unique artifae
of the region—the art, textiles, furn
ture, rifles, tallcase clocks, and ironwo
to name but a few. The volume alk
includes a chapter on pottery by K
Russ ’78, director of the University
laboratory of anthropology. |

 

 

 

Tennis Center Volleys
For a Summer Finish

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

At left is the architect’s drawing
for the University’s new four-court”
indoor tennis center, given to
Washington and Lee by businessman
Dick Duchossois °44 of Illinois im”
honor of President John Wilson's
retirement last summer. Comple-
mentary in design to Gaines Hall and
the Lenfest Center—gatehouse and
all—the games will begin this sum=
mer, when the center is completed.

 

 

| Bookshelf

[1.S. PRESIDENTS AS ORATORS, edited
by Halford Ryan (Greenwood Press;
$89.51 )). The book contains critical chap-
ters on 21 presidents who were preemi-
nent orators. Ryan, professor of English
and public speaking at Washington and
lee, contributed chapters on Franklin
1. Roosevelt and Harry S ‘Truman and
co-authored the chapter on Jimmy
Carter. He joined the faculty in 1970.

 

 

 

 

 

POLITICS, BARBECUE & BALDERDASH.
by John Cole ’80 (Durham Herald Co.;
$7.95). A first collection from Durham

(N.C.) Herald-Sun editorial cartoonist
Cole, whose favorite topics, as executive
editor Bill Hawkins notes, include
“politicians, gun nuts, criminals, hypo-
crites, and, of course, tobacco compa-
nies. You figure out why his house
smells of cheap cigars.” The book is
dedicated to the memory of W&L jour-
nalism professor Clark Mollenhoff,
“who loved to catch them with their
pants down.”

My FRIEND THE ENEMY, by Stanley
C. Brown ’51 (Northwestern Publishing:
$12.95). Eighteen-year-old Giuseppe
Bellini leaves family and home for the
New World, where he finds danger and
intolerance alongside the milk and
honey of his dreams. Brown’s novel doc-
uments his struggles to understand a
Strange land and to discover beauty
amid the gunfights, opportunism, and
Senocide that characterized the south-
West prior to the Civil War. Brown. a
resident of Payson, Ariz., was a pastor in
the United Methodist Church for 40

V ae ie : . . . ~ .
years before turning to historical fiction.

 

SHREVEPORT AND BOSSIER
City, photographs and text by
Neil Johnson ’76 (Lousiana State
University Press; $39.95).

Johnson, a photographer and
writer since 1980, captures his
native Shreveport and its compan-
ion city across the Red River—
from B-52s to thoroughbreds,
from nature to neon—the people,
places, colleges, churches, and
landmarks. The granite monu-
ment shown at right, located
between the Caddo Parish Court-
house and Texas Street, was
erected in 1905 by the United
Daughters of the Confederacy as
a memorial to Confederate sol-
diers who died in the Civil War.

Johnson’s photos have ap-
peared in Art Forum, Audubon,
Historic Preservation, National
Geographic World, Time, USA Today,

 

and other magazines. He is the
author of many books for young
readers, including Big Top Circus.
He’s now at work on a companion
volume of photos of the state of
Louisiana.

 

 

 

The

Wines

ws and
* Travels
of

PASSIONS: THE WINES AND
‘TRAVELS OF ‘THOMAS JEFFERSON, by
James M. Gabler °53 (Bacchus Press;
$29.95). Gabler, a Baltimore attorney
and wine expert, has published three
volumes on the grape to date, includ-
ing Wine Into Words and How to
Become a Wine Expert. Passions retraces
Jefferson’s travels through New
England and across France, Italy,

 

England, Germany, and Holland.
Frank J. Prial in Zhe New York Times
wrote: “[Gabler] has added lovely
touches of color and a bit of fascinat-
ing perspective to the remarkable
image [of Jefferson] most of us
already have,”and The Wine Advocate
hailed Passions as “Wine Book of the
Year.”

Not bad for a guy who started out
as a beer drinker. He became inter-
ested in wine about 25 years ago
when “a guy was able to get it for me
wholesale,” as he told The Sun in
Baltimore. Now he has a wine library
of about 1,700 volumes and a private
wine cellar of about 3,000 bottles.

“Life is really too short to drink
bad wine,” Gabler told would-be
connoiseurs in the introduction to
the second edition of How to Become
a Wine Expert, published in 1987 and
reprinted last year. He has reissued
older books by other authors (which
are considered to be classic on wine)
through his Bacchus Press.

 

 

 

Pool Shark

Junior Nathan Hottle Feeds Off
The Competition at the NCAAs

It was Andrew Diemer’s race to lose. Leading at the 175-
yard mark of the 200 breaststroke at the 1995 NCAA Division
III Championships, the Williams College student seemed well
on his way to a national title. Only the swimmer in the lane
next to Diemer saw it differently.

“I saw him take his pull and I paused,” Nathan Hottle
recalls. “I hit an enormous stroke and shot past him.” In that
one split second, in one swift stroke of Hottle’s gigantic arms,
Diemer found himself in a distant second. Hottle finished .32
of a second ahead of Diemer—light years during champi-
onships time—to become the third national champion in W&L
swimming history.

Listening to Hottle describe his race to the national crown Is
disconcerting in how calculating he views an undoubtedly
adrenalin-induced surge. “I started out fast and was leading
when I got to the 100 (yard mark), but I backed off. [Diemer]
caught me at 150 and was still leading at 175, but I beat him at
the turn.” While one might think something clicked in the
back of his mind that made his comeback possible, it was actu-
“I was pretty confident at the 150-
“because

ally just a matter of time.
yard mark even though I was behind,” Hottle says,
he was expending more energy. I was going to have more
power when we came down to the final stretch.”

Maybe it’s his youth—he’s just a junior—but Hottle seems
less impressed with his national championship than the rest of
the country. “I can’t say I’m not happy with it,” says the
Clearbrook (Va.) native. “Going in, they published some rat-
ings, and I was seeded second. So I had an idea of what I
should be able to do. After I won it, it didn’t really hit me. It
seemed like I had just won another race.

But when I got to the victory stand and got to see the view
from the top spot...well...I liked it.”

Hottle was a fixture on the victory stand at the NCAAs.
Along with the national championship, he earned All-America
recognition in the 100 breast and 200 individual medley. In
addition, Hottle was part of three relay teams that earned All-
American kudos, helping W&L to an 11th-place finish.

“ur

,

[his was all part of his plan,” says head swimming coach
Page Remillard. “And the great thing about Nathan is he ts the
farthest thing from arrogant, even though with his success in
athletics and academics, he has every right to be.”

When he was examining the choices for his college educa-
tion, it was not what Washington and Lee had to offer that
impressed Hottle, it was what the University did vor have. “I
was looking at mostly Division III schools and I wanted to
swim,” recalls Hottle, who has also been an instrumental mem-
ber of the W&L water polo team for the past three seasons. “I
was looking at very academic-oriented schools and I thought

Washington and Lee was better overall than the rest. The

 

   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

other schools all had that thing that I didn’t like. I just didn
find that thing here.”

What Hottle has found at wouhliauica and Lee is success i
both his athletics and academics. He currently holds a 3:
grade-point average while working on a double major ¢
physics-engineering and computer science. “He is one of tf
best that we have here,” says Bob Akins, professor of physic
and engineering. “The discipline from the pool carries overt
the classroom. He is a talented student who works very hard.”

In the water, Hottle admits, “People are expecting a Kt
more of me, but I am not putting any pressure on myselft
keep the hype under control.” Much of his confidence come
from the fact that he has one goal after he leaves the blocks
the whistle. “I don’t really worry about how other peoph
says Hottle, who has shown glimpses of his All-Amefi€
form early on this season. “I just want to improve my OW
times. The national record for the 200 breast is close and inm

swim,”

range, so I'll take a shot at that.”

As casually as he talks about breaking long standing natio
records, Hottle realizes there is much work ahead this seas¢
He is aware that for the first time he has to be a team leade
“What Nathan has always done is lead by example,” Sa
Remillard. “He works very hard and others can learn from tha
whether it’s in athletics or academics.”

So what should the field at the NCAA national champ
onships this March expect out of Hottle now that he h
already captured the NCAA crown in the 200 breast? “I shou
improve my 100 breast because I think that is my best even
he laments. “It just didn’t show.”

Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the watet=

—By Jac

a General

When Dog du Jour
Meets Plate du Jour

Nothing much gets past Beeper, the
Jack Russell terrier belonging to associ-
ate alumni director Rob Mish ’76—or
Mish himself, for that matter. In an arti-
cle on Jack Russell terriers (or JRTs, for
short) in the December 1995 Town @©
Country, writer Harry Minetree relates
the tale of his JRT, Hotspur, eating his
first golf ball: “Suddenly, inevitably, the
rubber tether broke and the ball car-
omed off three concrete walls, broke a
plate commemorating Washington and
Lee University, and shattered a ginger-
jar lamp.” Seems that Harry’s son, Lee,
graduated from W&L in 1981, and was
captain of the football team. Mish con-
tacted the writer, traded JRT stories,
and sent him a replacement Wedgwood
plate with Lee Chapel in the center.
The lamp, of course, is another story.

Once a W&L Gentleman...

...always a W&L gentleman. Just ask
Heather Whitestone, Miss America 1995,
Who’s now engaged to Republican con-
gtessional aide John McCallum 792,
Whitestone told the Birmingham Post-
Herald that she and McCallum “never
Kissed or held hands the first six months
they dated, ‘because I wanted to get to
know his heart first.’” The two met last
March. No wedding date yet.

DOUG HARWOOD

THE ROEKBRIDGE
Cm eet

io

 

Artwork by Larry Drechsler from The Architecture of Historic Lexington. Used with permission.

 

Peete

           
    
    
 
 

  
 
     

 

A i
reas

‘. tT PE n

gee =]
~ \ Soffa a 1
(4b EX

 

 

 

  

  
  
  
  

   
  
   
   

    
  
  

 

ef ee ee Be ae Ti rH ee
' A re ¥ 13 L to
: 1 dis —* — ‘ e.°
ae AR pe LE ENT Pee att J 4 es
ocomumess ° ee oe ae ra — = ~ aan — oon - : : -
SS ~e Ss - a Qa.) aii rie Lane Mtb 0a
=— ¢ —_ Yi ei lZ-_ “Ce. ——, 1, a >. “x -_
Pa. eZ I, 2S we 3 ee ee ee we; fem, 3

Artist’s conception of Liberty Hall Academy, circa 1796: The school’s early fortunes hinged upon outside support for survival.

10

rr

Kat

Washington's gift 200 years ago to struggling Liberty Hall Academy encouraged

the arts and promoted literature in a rising empire—and set a course for survival.

that has never been forgotten at Washington and Lee. Taylor Sanders explains.

When yeoman farmer John Mear
composed his will in 1784, the Rock-
bridge County resident relieved his fam-
ily and friends of any debts to the estate
and ordered that his “just debts” be
paid. Then, noting his own disgust with
what he termed the rampant “Party Zeal
among Christians,” he left the remains
of his estate “to the Students of Liberty
Hall Academy, and their successors, to
be laid out in Pious Books for their use
that are intended for the ministry.”

Never mind that the school has
always produced more lawyers than
preachers. Although founded by Presby-
terians, Liberty Hall was unusual among
colonial colleges in that it drew no offi-
cial support from either the church or
the state. Yet had it relied exclusively
on the bounty of local folk of modest
means, or even its alumni, it wouldn’t
have survived into the 19th century—
never to become Washington Academy,
or Washington College, or finally, Wash-
ington and Lee.

Throughout its history, W&L’s for-
tunes have often depended on people
Who had no deep roots either geographi-
Cally or institutionally: Parmly. Reid,

duPont, Doremus. Newcomb, Pratt...
well, you get the idea. Long before
there was ever a development office, the
rector and trustees crafted their pitches
broadly to “Friends of Learning.” They
stressed that the school would be free of
ecclesiastical entanglements, and open
to all regardless of religious faction.
President William Graham, who start-
ed the college program at Liberty Hall
on the eve of the American Revolution,
persevered with his mission in spite of
the economic, religious, and political
tumult that followed the war. At times
when the academy’s trustees felt partic-
ularly discouraged about the future, he
offered these words of encouragement:
“There are people working for this acad-
emy who don’t know it.” For instance,
George Washington. And on the 200th
birthday of the most important gift in
the history of Washington and Lee, the
case can be made that the father of our
country is also the father of philanthropy.
Soon after word arrived late in 1795
that Washington planned to leave his
100 shares of James River Canal Co.
stock to endow a Virginia college in the
“upper part of the state,” the board of

trustees of Liberty Hall appointed a
committee of two—William Graham
and the Rev. Samuel Houston, a local
trustee—to draft an appeal that would
capture the President’s legacy. ‘The pair
immediately went to work, even taking
the care to prepare a map of the back-
side of Virginia to show the school’s
location. Not only did Graham seize the
opportunity, but he acted swiftly to
compose a letter attractive to a man like
Washington, who had a reputation for
being both generous and frugal.
Although he watched every penny, he
gave away thousands of dollars to his
church, to the poor, to schools, and to
colleges from Kentucky to Maryland.
The largely self-educated President
had long been a friend of education. He
had a dream that someday Washington
City would house a national university,
pulling together boys from all regions to
preserve the national spirit and dampen
sectionalism among the educated
elite—a dream that was never realized.
But he had another dream. Long
associated with the west country,
Washington strove to develop educa-
tional opportunities in that rapidly grow-

11

ing part of the state. In the same way
that the proposed canal would open up
the west economically and demographi-
cally, so a vibrant college in the west
would enhance the region intellectually
and culturally.

And the trustees, consciously or
unconsciously, played on this theme.
Their letter to Washington, commenced
on Jan. 5, 1796, and completed two days
later, bears all the hallmarks of a suc-
cessful contemporary development
strategy. In clear and concise language,
Graham and Houston stressed that
Liberty Hall was long established, self-
sufficient (if struggling), and that it had
been built and maintained by the self
sacrifice of local people. It deserved the
support, then, of a generous, frugal man.
It underscored that “many young gen-
tlemen” were already “serving the coun-
try with usefulness” as alumni.

The trustees realized that their pro-
posal flew into a competitive field.
Boosters of rival locations, including
New London, Fincastle, Lynchburg,
Charlottesville, Hampden-Sydney, and
Staunton, were already at work to snare
the legacy. They probably did not know
that Washington may have narrowed his
choice to either Staunton or Lexington.
Here was forged one of the first of the
mystical links that unite Washington
and Lee University to the patriotic fami-
lies that bore those names.

In December 1795, Graham’s friend
and classmate at Princeton, Henry
“Light-Horse Harry” Lee—who in time
became Robert E. Lee’s father—urged
President Washington to settle on either
Staunton or Lexington. He may well
have been a key supporter for his old
roommate’s fledgling enterprise; a
school where a decade later he enrolled
his son, Henry Jr.

The Liberty Hall trustees wrote in a
tone that was fair, high-minded, and
flattering. It was a style that certainly
appealed to Washington’s sense of pro-
priety, balance, fairness, and disdain for
factional politics. Graham and Houston
refused to knock their competitors.

Such was not the case for the champi-
ons of their chief rival, Staunton. Its
boosters denigrated Lexington as a
“small spot,” and unfairly portrayed the

12

 

Liberty Hall president
William Graham's letter
appealed to Washington's

vision of western growth
in Virginia—and his much
vaunted sense of vanity.

school as strictly sectarian. They
attacked Graham as a “violent antifeder-
alist” who had opposed Washington’s
policies (and here one must admit that
they were being truthful). Graham had
strenuously attacked the Constitution
and veered to radicalism in politics, but
one imagines that Washington’s sense of
fair play was rankled when the
Stauntonians noted that it was “ill
grace” on the part of Graham to now
seek the President’s “favor.”

Before there was an Honor System,
Graham and Houston took the high
road. They simply noted that the school
was equidistant from both Fincastle and
Staunton, and was “as near the center as
local situation would admit.” They
acknowledged that Staunton was the
more “ancient and populous town” and
at present was nearest to the “center of
population in the upper part of the
state,” but they focused on the future
and appealed to Washington’s vision of
western growth.

The trustees foresaw the day when
extensive lands to the southwest and
west were filled with settlers: a day “not
very far distant,” when the “population

  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  

upon these lands must equal if p,
exceed” the region around Staunton.

This is not to say that they negle
Washington’s vaunted sense of vanj
They called him “generous and disgi,
guished” for refusing to profit from
Canal scheme. They praised his plans
“wise and beneficent.” And they p
sented their own motives as unselfjs
appealing to Washington’s strong sep
of duty in noting that theirs was
obligation they owed to the local pub
to make the appeal. In words that m,
have struck a chord in Washingtor
heart, they noted that their appeal y
aimed at a “mind which always ove
looks private interest to embrace a
secure the public good.” (Here one
reminded of what Benjamin Disra
said of royalty in general and Que
Victoria in particular—when it comes)
flattery, “lay it on with a trowel!”)

They clearly and concisely told t
story of the school, tying the tale close
with the Revolution and stressing
location in the Forks of the James.
noted the area’s healthy environme
and that its “pleasantness yields to
lands in the upper part of the state
They stressed that it had been built t
the sacrifice of volunteer donors ¢
that great damage would be done if t
school’s location was changed. Appea
ing to Washington’s famed frugali
they pointed out that the worth of t
school’s furniture and buildings ¥
nigh on 2,000 pounds.

They also struck on Washingtor
reputation for justice and fair play:
destruction of so much property p
cured with considerable difficulty un
much greater preponderating good ¢
be secured to the public will doubtle
be seriously weighed. And as the pul
good is the only object which can infl
ence your determination, it is unnece
sary to add any tiling farther.”

The trustees focused the appe
toward Washington’s desire to serve ©
greater public and his interest in We
ern development. They presented €
message in a high-minded, dignifie
and restrained tone that flattered #
dignity and his altruistic character.
vision of the appeal, though large
understated, was clear. Washingt?

_

legacy would serve a school that had
deep roots in the past, strong ties in the
local community, and was already play-
ing an important role for the region he
loved. Both the trustees and the Presi-
dent were also mindful that a certain
future greatness could only be secured
with Washington’s support.

And then they waited.

On Sept. 15, 1796, Washington wrote
Virginia governor Robert Brooke of his
decision to transfer his shares in the
James River Company “to the use of
Liberty Hall Academy.” His gift held up
against legislation approved in Decem-
ber 1796 (and repealed in January 1798)
by the Virginia General Assembly to
Sevoke the 1782 charter and transform
Liberty Hall into a public college.
Finally, on Dec. 7, 1798, Washington
legally conveyed the James River Shares
to the academy that now bore his name.

A half-year earlier, in his own letter to
the trustees, Washington made clear
that the board’s vision was in tune with
his own, noting that “To promote litera-
ture in this rising Empire, and to
encourage the Arts have ever been
among the warmest wishes of my heart.”
Without the gift, one can imagine the
Liberty Hall ruins littered among the 80
percent of all schools founded prior to
the Civil War that were defunct by 1930.

The endowment, as so often hap-
pens, proved to be seed money that
attracted later gifts. One doubts that the
school would have received either the
Robinson legacy or the Cincinnati fund,
which together with the canal stock
comprised virtually the school’s entire
antebellum endowment, had it not been
for the Washington gift. The Washing-
ton legacy certainly played a role in con-
vincing General Lee to come to Wash-
ington College. More importantly, it
assured that there would be a school in
Lexington for him to serve.

And the experience the school has
had with both President Washington
and General Lee underscores a major
theme in our history. There are people
Out there working for Washington and
Lee today who don’t even know it.

Sanders is a professor of history and
Mwersity historian at Washington and Lee.

Stock History

1785

October 29: George Washington graciously declines the Commonwealth of Virginia's gift of 100
shares of James River Company Stock (at $200 each) for his own personal use. He refused to
accept emoluments for civic service. Company had been chartered in May 1784.

1795

December 26: Governor “Light Horse Harry” Lee writes Washington, who was holding the stock in
trust for the public good, that stock should go to a “college...to be placed at Staunton; there or
Lexington certainly.” But there’s no need for Washington to hurry the decision.

1796

January 5: Graham informs board of Washington's plan to endow a school with the Canal Stock.
Committee selected to draft appeal. + January 7: Graham and Houston complete appeal. +
September 15: Washington writes Governor Brooke that he has decided to transfer “those shares to
the use of Liberty Hall Academy in Rockbridge County.” « December 1796-January 1797: School gripped
with rechartering controversy when Liberty Hall's 1782 charter is repealed by the State Legislature.

1797

September: Liberty Hall Academy officially informed of Washington's gift.

1798

January 19: Virginia Legislature restores 1782 charter. + April 12: Our trustees forward letter of thanks
to Washington. + June 17: Washington's formal note of acknowledgment stressing his desire to
“promote literature in this rising Empire.” « December 7: 100 shares of stock in James River Company
officially conveyed to Rector and Trustees of Washington Academy.

1799

July 9: Gift confirmed in Washington's will. « December 14: Washington dies at Mount Vernon.

180]

James River Company constructs seven miles of canal at the falls of the James at Richmond.

1808

Company paying shareholders a 12 percent annual dividend.

1823

State takes over the troubled company; but guarantees dividend of 12 percent for 10 years and at 15

1832

New Company, James River and Kanawha Canal Company, chartered as “successor of present James
River Company.” It was now involved with a new project—George Washington's original idea—to connect
upper James with the western waters. New company was a private joint stock company but the state
owned ca $5 million in capital stock State pledged to pay stockholders of old company 15 percent per annum.

1840 to 1880

Panics, Wars, engineering problems plague company. Project could not cross the mountains. Canals

1892

February 23: Virginia General Assembly passes act providing to surrender and cancel its shares in return

for a six percent certificate of indebtedness that commuted Washington donation at $50,000 (the original

$20,000 at 15 percent in 1832 equaled $50,000 at six percent in 1892). Certificate of debt to W&L totaled
$236,758.23 (including additional bonds given by George Peabody and other donors to the school).

1928

As part of Governor Byrd's reorganization scheme, the certificate was retired. Cash payment made to
WEL from the state treasury. W&L, which apparently would have preferred for sentimental reasons that
the state issue a special six percent memorial bond, accepted the money which remains part of WGL's
permanent endowment. Today it pays approximately $5.50 of cach student's tuition annually.

percent forever thereafter in perpetuity.

surrender to steam.

Source: Georce WasHINCTON: Patron oF Learninc, by LC. Helderman (The Century Co., 1932). pp. 123-163.

13

Photos (bottom, right): Arne Kuhimann ‘97

 

 

14

 
 
  
  
 
   
  
   
  
    
 
   
  
 
 

While their first matchup in 54 years
wasn’t exactly a buzzer-beater,
spirited play, a TV audience, and ©

half-naked fans made the W&L-VMI

game an affair to remember

By Brian Logue

Pe a LE

GE player fouls

tay) ee ie

IC tees simi Pees ANT ITS

 

It wasn’t your ordinary W&L basketball crowd. When s
dents arrived at a game carrying signs with their faces paint
ed, you knew something special was going on. And whe
another student arrived with his entire upper torso painted
deep royal blue—well, the word wnusua/ springs to mind. ~

Then again, it’s not every day that Washington and Le
takes to the floor with its next-door neighbor, Virgint
Military Institute. In fact, it had been 54 years (and thé
game, in the Southern Conference quarterfinals in 1941, we
played some 200 miles away, in Raleigh, N.C.). A crowd D
4,140—roughly half the population of Lexington, countint
students—packed Cameron Hall to near-capacity for the his
toric rematch Nov. 28, which was telecast live by WDBJ-
the CBS affiliate in Roanoke. The NCAA Division I Keydet
prevailed 100-62, but the Division III Generals made it }
game for a while, trailing just 42-35 at the half. |

W&L was far from intimidated and came ready to play
W&L senior Jon Coffman scored the first points of the gam

 

 

VMI enlisted
its cheerleaders
from Southern
Virginia College
in Buena Vista,
but their moves
were no match

 

for the precision ;
of the corps. and just seconds later, eneey senior Cam Dyer blocked .
VMI’s first shot of the night. The Keydets threatened to pull j
away several times in the first half, but the Generals”
answered every challenge. At one point, VMI led 24-12;
W&L came back with seven straight points. And when VMI
went On its own spree to make the game 30-19 at the eight-
minute mark, W&L responded with an outstanding stretch |
of basketball. Buoyed by vocal support from the W&L section, ~
the Generals went on a 10-0 run over the next three minutes, :
cutting the margin to one. W&L had the chance to take the

lead on its next two possessions, but could not convert. VMI

 

pulled away for a seven-point halftime lead, blowing the
game open with a big run to start the second half. ;
“Their depth and their athletic ability took over in “
second half,” says first-year W&L head coach Kevin Moore ~
(pictured, left). Still, the contest between the neighboring”
schools met all expectations. “Every Division III kid has

delusions of grandeur about playing Division I,” Moore adds.)

at ee

“For our guys, this was their chance and they did a great job. ~

VMI was far from the only winner on the late November —

  
 

 

evening. The Rockbridge Area Recreation Organization,

16

 

headed by Doug Chase ’74, reaped a significant portion of

the proceeds from the contest, but the other winners were
the students, who, for one rare evening, got to feel the atmos-
phere of a big-time athletic happening in Lexington.

Good-natured barbs were heard on both sides of the court,
and no major incidents of bad will erupted from the two stu-
dent sections. “This ain’t gonna be no lacrosse game,” the
corps shouted, referring to the Generals’ recent dominance in
the eight-year-old Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic. W&L stu-
dents retaliated with signs such as CAN’T BEAT OUR SAT’,
paying homage to the network broadcasting the game (and
testimony to hours well spent watching televised athletics).

As much fun as the students had, this game was especially
enjoyable for the players. “For a guy like me, it’s once in a
lifetime that you get to play in that kind of atmosphere,” says
Generals junior guard Chris Couzen, who handled VMI’s
Pressure defense flawlessly for most of the game.

This time, there will be no 54-year wait before the series
Is renewed. Moore and VMI head coach Bart Bellairs have
already agreed to meet again next season. And royal blue

body paint will again be the order of the day.

 

Generals fans

won the battle of

the body-paint
wars, but the
Keydets’ play

inside the paint

spelled trouble

before the night

Was OVE.

 

 

17

Photos (this page): Arne Kuhimann ‘97

18

 

  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
     
 
 

Six student leaders from
the Law Class of ’96

talk candidly about three
years in a “space station;”
their chosen profession;
what attracted them to
Lexington; and what they

expect when they leave.

Moot Court board chairg
Chaffin graduated from West
University. “What attracte
W&L,” he says, “was first and
its reputation, the student fae
and the open-door policy.” 1
is working here in Lexington. |

Student Bar Association |
Booth Goodwin, like Chaffin, g
from West Virginia Universit
the reasons he came to W&d
fessor Tim Philipps, who hai
father’s law review advisor yé
WVU. “Everything kind of €
place,” Goodwin says. There)
considerations as well: “I ¢
Morgantown, where there is |
Here, you can park right 0

—

door. Great reputation and comfort—
are the things you’re thinking

those
about when you’re choosing a law
school. And this really fit the bill.”

SBA vice president Wallace Truesdale
did his undergraduate studies at More-
house College, a predominantly black,
all-male school in Atlanta. “I like that
small-school environment,” he says, but
he was also looking for diversity. “I
liked the people and it wasn’t in the big
city. I’m kind of a reckless person some-
times. | don’t think I could have been in
a big city and gone to law school at the
same time. loo many distractions.”

SBA secretary Saraab Saleh hails from
Connecticut and went to undergrad at

St. Lawrence, “which its sort of like the

 

 

 

 

Saraab Saleh: “SBA takes
care of things. It’s a great
position and a lot of fun.”

W&L of the north, which is admittedly
a lot of what attracted me here at first.
Probably the second-biggest reason |
Came here is Professor [Brian] Murchi-
son, who has been a family friend for a
long time. I thought if a lot of people
Were like him down here, then it would
be a great place to go to law school..And
that is very much true.”

Liz Misiaveg, editor in chief of the
Law Review, did her undergraduate work
at Spring Hill University, a small Jesuit
School in Mobile, Ala. “I had gotten
used to smaller-size classes and accessi-

ble professors and I really wanted to
find that in law school as well. I was
really impressed also by [Admissions]
Dean [Susan] Palmer, because I| defer-
red for a year, and when I would call in
and talk to her, she knew who I was and
what I was doing. I thought that was
really impressive.”

SBA treasurer Bill Crenshaw came to
Washington and Lee from 14 years of
active duty in the Marine Corps. “When
I looked at law schools, this one—[in
terms of] reputation, environment, fac-
ulty-student relationships, student-stu-
dent relationships, and just as important,
the town itself [Crenshaw has a wife and
children]—everything seemed to be
exactly what I was looking for. And I

 

Eric Chaffin: “We came

here to learn, but when we
leave, we want a job.”

have not been disappointed.”

Other observations from a recent talk
with WEL over pizza and soda:

W&L: Were you all familiar with
Washington and Lee when you started
your law school search process?

Truesdale: | wasn’t at all. To tell you
the truth, I knew it was in Virginia, |
guess. But I didn’t know where it was.

W&L: Is life in Lexington simply law
school to you guys? What do you do
besides study?

Misiaveg: | ride a lot, and I’ve met a
lot of people from Lexington and Rock-

bridge County, which is really nice
because it makes you feel like you have
a connection here besides law school.
The law school is sort of like a space sta-
tion—you can come in [Lewis Hall]
with food and you can stay here forever
if you choose. You really have to get out
sometimes. I helped coach a girl’s bas-
ketball team my first year, which was a
lot of fun because again it was good to
get out and be in the community.

Truesdale: | started doing the VITA
(Volunteers in ‘Tax Assistance) program
and met a lot of nice people from the
community. Now I’m head of VITA for
the law school as well as the district that
our school is in.

W&L: When you’re out there looking

 

 

 

Bill Crenshaw: “Everything
here seemed to be exactly
what I was looking for.”

for work and you say Washington and
Lee, what’s the name recognition like?
Truesdale: | think one of the main
things we need to work on as a Univer-
sity is the name recognition. When I was
coming up here to visit the school, I was
on a plane—and I don’t know if this guy
was drunk or not—but we were talking
about the school the whole time and he
kept referring to us as he was talking to
his friend, “This kid over here, he’s
going to William and Mary!”
Goodwin: Or Washington and Mary.
Saleh: That’s happened to me.

19

Chaffin: One thing I will say is that
anyone who’s read about the school gen-
erally has something very positive to
say. It’s really coming up.

Crenshaw: Our prominence on the
scene is relatively recent. As a conse-
quence, once you get out of this area,
especially as you cross the Mississippi,
then you really have to advertise the
school as well as yourself. [Student body
president and third-year law student]
Keith Benedict told me that at this firm
where he’s going back to in Texas, they
were giving him down the river because
they’d never heard of this Washington

and Lee place. ‘They subscribe to some
other kind of rankings, and they saw
Washington and Lee as something like

Wallace Truesdale: “To
tell you the truth, I didn’t
know where W&L was.”

100th in this particular ranking service.
And he wrote the dean about it and said,
They don’t believe that I go to a good
law school down here. And the dean
actually wrote this firm and said, We’re
ranked the top 25, we’re a great law
school with a low student-faculty ratio,
we have a great first-year curriculum—
and I think it really helped. Obviously it
did. He’s got a job there.

Goodwin: People may not realize that
law as a profession, and law school as an
education, has dramatically changed
since the mid 1970s. But I think that the

20

attitude, the sense of community, has
remained the same here over the years.
And I think that contributes to W&L
lawyers being considered among the
best regardless of when we graduated.

W&L: What’s the most unexpected
thing about your law school experience?

Misiaveg: | didn’t realize this coming
out of undergrad—maybe I was shel-
tered or something—but I thought if
you went to grad school and worked
hard you would get a job. I really
thought that. And I came here and was
fortunate. But I still see a lot of third-
years who have very good grades, who
are very nice, who don’t have jobs. And
these people need to know not to be
frightened, but to be patient.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Booth Goodwin: “Great
reputation and comfort—

this really fit the bill.”

Chaffin: | don’t know if students are
encouraged as much as they should
be....We came here to learn, but when
we leave, we want a job.

W&L: So how are you all situated as
far as jobs go?

Saleh:. I’m going to clerking—well,
I’m going to be an associate—at Car-
mody & Torrance in New Haven, Conn.
I clerked there this summer.

Goodwin: I|’ll be going back to the
family law firm in Charleston, Goodwin
& Goodwin, started by my great-grand-
father. My grandfather and my great

7

uncle were in the firm, and now my dad
and his brother are...I was named for
my grandfather, so for a long time the
plaque at the top read Robert Booth
Goodwin.

Crenshaw: I’m looking at commercial]
real estate sales and leasing but I’m also
being tempted by the devil right now
because one of my friends started a Jaw
firm in Blacksburg—he graduated from
W&L last year—and he says come op
down we want you to be a partner.

Misiaveg: I’m going to Minneapolis to
work for a firm called Faegre & Benton,
There’s another recent W&L graduate
who’s working there as well.

Chaffin: I’m going to Pittsburgh to a
firm, Reed Smith Shaw McClay. I'll be

Liz Misiaveg: “You can
come here with food and

99
you can stay here forever.

the first Washington and Lee graduate
at the firm.

Truesdale: | want to get into tax law,
so I’ve been applying to Big Six
accounting firms. I’ve gotten one Wit
ten offer and a couple of verbal offets:
So I don’t know exactly where I'll be.

W&L: Will you all miss Lexingto®
when you graduate?

(Laughter all around.)

Truesdale: | need a city now.

Goodwin: I come from a small town, 5°
it hasn’t been much of a change.

Saleh: I'l] come back. @

THE

The WDBJ-TV news team, circa 1956
(clockwise from top left): newsman and
Suture W&L professor Ron MacDonald;
Channel 7 news director Don Murray °48;
and correspondents Vince Clephas (news),
Dexter Mills (sports), Ted Powers (“The Big
Show”), and Doyle Sattersthwaite (news).

CON NE CT i OM

 

 

 

 

~y .
wDBJ a
TL

\ ee ae |
aa

 

IN 1969, ROANOKE
TV ANCHORMAN RON
MACDONALD MOVED
FROM THE WDBJ
NEWSROOM TO THE
W&L CLASSROOM.
HE’S BEEN HELPING
STUDENTS MOVE
FROM THE CLASSROOM
TO THE NEWSROOM
EVER SINCE.

BY MATT JENNINGS ’93

 

21

MACDONALD & CoO.

 

 

When Don Murray °48 took a job
fresh out of W&L as assistant news
director at Roanoke radio station WDB],
television was still a stranger to the
Shenandoah Valley, and the news
department consisted only of Murray
and news director John W. Eure. “My
Original intention was to stay in
Roanoke for only one year,” he recalls.
“I guess it didn’t work out that way,”

Instead, Murray was there in 1955,
when the broadcaster beat out in-town
rival WROV-AM for the rights to launch
a new TV station to challenge the Star
City’s first TV outlet, WSLS; when
WDBJ moved to the top floor of the
Mountain Trust Bank Co. that October,
and began broadcasting over VHF
Channel 7; and when a Boston Univer-
sity graduate named Ron MacDonald
came to the station in 1956.

“Il was looking for another news-
man,”
director and 6 o’clock anchor was also

recalls Murray, who as news

instrumental in hiring fellow W&L
grads John Jennings °56 and Lloyd
Dobyns ’°57, “and I liked what I heard
and saw in Ron,” who was working for a
radio station in Barre, Vt., at the time.
“He had a marvelous command of lan-
guage, he wrote well, he had an out-
standing voice, but most importantly, he
was not awed by journalism. I didn’t
want performers. I wanted reporters.”
Murray built WDB] into a first-class
news operation, MacDonald anchored
the morning newscast and later the 6
o’clock news, and the CBS affiliate

22

came to dominate the local market.
Murray left the station in July 1969 and
moved to Richmond to serve as a cam-
paign press aide for Virginia gubernator-
ial candidate Bill Battle (who lost to
Linwood Holton ’44) and spent the rest
of his career both in politics and public
relations. Within a matter of weeks,
MacDonald, too, left the station.

“After 20 years, the time had come
to leave and get into a less hectic side of
the business,” MacDonald says. Depart-
ment head Pax Davis offered him a
position as associate professor of journal-
ism and communications at Washington
and Lee. “It was an honor to be asked,”
he says. “The W&L pp was something
I couldn’t turn down.” But MacDonald
didn’t leave the station behind when he
came to W&L. Instead, he brought the
spirit of WDBJ with him.

While a mere 50 miles of interstate
separate the two, more than proximity
links W&L and WDBJ. “WDB] is just
as unique to the broadcast industry as
W&L is to education,”
Billingsley °82, chief meteorologist and
weather anchor at KPRC-TV in
Houston. “Just as W&L adheres to a
strong code of honor, WDBJ upholds an
ethical standard second to none. They
are not going to lower their standards

says Frank

just because everyone else has.”

Jim Shaver, vice president of news
and programming at WDB], echoes that
sentiment. “The journalism department
at Washington and Lee its very, very
solid and we have a lot in common. I’d

 

7

“HE HAD A MARVELOUS
COMMAND OF LANGUAGE,
HE WROTE WELL, HE HAD
AN OUTSTANDING VOICE,
BUT MOST IMPORTANTLY,
HE WAS NOT AWED BY
JOURNALISM. | DIDN’T
WANT PERFORMERS. |
WANTED REPORTERS.”

—DON MURRAY '48, WHO HIRED
MACDONALD AT WDB) IN 1956.

have to say that the interns we get from
W&L get more air time because we
don’t have to teach them the basics of
journalism. That’s already been done.”

One of the first students to benefit
greatly from this was a young Mae-
Donald advisee named Tom Mattesky
‘74, who now oversees the day-to-day
operation of the Washington bureau as
deputy bureau chief for CBS News. “A
lot of the standards and practices Ron
learned at WDB] were the same ones he
taught at W&L,” says Mattesky, who
interned at WDBJ during the spring
semester of 1973 and was hired as a staff
reporter in 1975. “There was always a
sense of WDBJ at W&L and it really
stemmed from Ron MacDonald—he
was WDBJ.”

Mattesky left WDBJ in 1979 and
spent six years in Charlotte producing
special events for WBTV before being
hired by CBS News in 1985. Prior to his
current appointment, Mattesky spent
four years as a regional field producer im
Atlanta, four years covering the Bush
and Clinton administrations as White
House producer, and two years as a pro-
ducer for the newscast’s nightly Eye on
America segment. “I guess you could
say I’m working in the major leagues of
broadcasting,” says the Emmy Award-
winning producer. “But I can say that
some of the best journalists ve eve
worked with are people I worked with at
WDB]. The commitment to news gath-
ering there is unparalleled.

“There was always a feeling among,

—

TOM MATTE SK ww

"a &

 

the folks at WDBJ that if you passed the
‘W&L test,’ you were accepted at
WDB],” he adds. “They were comfort-
able that you had learned what it takes
to be a good reporter or a good writer. If
you came from W&L, then you could
cut it down there.

“IT have seen a lot of things, but
everything I’ve done comes back to the
foundation that I learned at WDBJ and
W&L. Wherever I go, whatever I work
on—I take that with me.”

Frank Billingsley met Jim Shaver in
October 1981, at W&L’s annual journal-
ism ethics seminar conducted by Ron
MacDonald and Lou Hodges: The fol-
lowing spring, when WDB] reporter Joe
Dashiell ’80 vacated the station’s
Lynchburg bureau to open a post in
Blacksburg, Shaver turned to the W&L
senior to handle the load. For six weeks
that spring, Billingsley traveled the
mountainous, winding road to Lynch-
burg each day, produced at least one
Story for the six o’clock news, and then
returned to Lexington—only to start the
Process all over again the next morning.
Following in Dashiell’s footsteps, “It
Was kind of like, ‘Here comes another
W&L guy,” says Billingsley, who was
summoned back to Roanoke as WDB]’s
weekend weather anchor in 1983 follow-
ing a brief stint in his native Birming-
ham. “But there was instant respect for
W&L there. They wouldn’t have had
Me running the bureau if they didn’t
Know I could do the job.”

Se ||LhC-LULULULE

When Bob deMaria, a professor at
W&L since 1976, felt it was time to
reacquaint himself with hands-on pro-
fessional experience, he became yet
another in the long line of interns the
University has sent down to Roanoke
over the last quarter-century. Working
side-by-side with senior producer
Allison Gibson, deMaria spent his morn-
ings assembling the noon newscast and
most of his afternoons producing pieces
for a former student, Joe Dashiell. “My
time there really affects me now when
teaching the news courses,” deMaria
says. “Allison led by example, and I try
to instill that feeling in my student pro-
ducers. Producing the news should be
fun, but the newsroom is also a place of
business. I learned that at WDB], and
that’s what I try and teach these kids.”

W&L’s first instructor of journalism
to have an affiliation with WDB] was
John Jennings. Jennings was hired by
WDB] radio following his graduation
from W&L in June 1956. He departed
for the Army five months later, further
polished his radio talents with the
American Forces Network in Europe,
and returned to WDBJ in 1958. ‘Though
he took a position at W&L in the fall of
1959 as an instructor of journalism, he
spent subsequent summers working
alongside MacDonald at WDBJ-TV
before departing for graduate school at
Stanford University (he returned to
W&L in 1973).

In 1957, following Jennings’ depar-
ture for the service, Don Murray hired

“SOME OF THE BEST
JOURNALISTS I’VE EVER
WORKED WITH ARE
PEOPLE | WORKED WITH
AT WDBJ....EVERYTHING
I'VE DONE GOES BACK
TO THE FOUNDATION |
LEARNED AT WDBJ AND
WASHINGTON AND LEE.”

—MATTESKY IS DEPUTY BUREAU
CHIEF OF CBS NEWS WASHINGTON.

still another W&L alumnus, Lloyd
Dobyns, who by his own admission
never intended to go into broadcasting.
“In fact, the only class I ever failed was
O.W. Riegel’s Motion Picture and Tele-
vision course,” recalls Dobyns, who won
28 broadcast awards for his work as an
anchor and correspondent for NBC
News. “I refused to go—it was all this
avant-garde crap that I couldn’t stand.”
Dobyns planned instead on being a
writer, and applied to The Roanoke Times
(then owned by the same company that
owned WDB)). “Their managing editor
said, ‘Hey, kid, you’ve got a great voice.
Go see that man with a pipe’—and it
was Don Murray.”

Even though Dobyns spent only 10
months at the station before departing
for the Army, the triumvirate of Murray,
MacDonald, and Dobyns quickly set
WDB] apart from the competition.
Dobyns worked alongside MacDonald,
anchoring the 6 a.m. farm news for radio
and handling nightly T'V duties as well.
One of the biggest stories he handled at
WDBJ was the launching of Sputnik in
October 1957. “I even remember my
sponsor—Casco chicken,” Dobyns says.
“It was an exciting time. Because our
newsroom was so small, you did every-
thing. It was all so new.”

Dobyns resumed his civilian career
with stints in Cumberland, Md., and
Norfolk, Va., and was hired by NBC
News in December 1969. He spent two
years as the network’s correspondent in
Paris, wrote and narrated nine documen-

23

Photo: Scott J. Ferrell ‘87

Photo: Joe Rubino

cEeEciiwiTFTrywyYynNnNAM”™N

 

taries, and anchored the short-lived
“Weekend” and “First Camera” as well
as the cult favorite “NBC News Over-
night.” Dobyns left NBC after 17 years
in 1986, and lives in semi-retirement in
North Carolina.

“Lloyd Dobyns was the best writer
I ever ran into in local radio and televi-
sion,” Murray says. “Not only did I
admire his talent and energy, but we all
worked together very well. We enjoyed
each other tremendously.”

The professional exchange between
WDB] and W&L cuts both ways. When
MacDonald had to reduce his teaching
load in 1991 due to health problems, it
was Jim Shaver who came to the rescue.
The WDBJ news director traveled to
Lexington three times a week to teach
MacDonald’s broadcast reporting
course. “It was a wonderful experience,”
Shaver recalls. “I have a deep respect
for college students who really want to
learn the business. They are the ones
you can really watch go.”

And no one has taken off quicker
than Cecily Tynan Badger ’91. In just
five years, she has progressed from a col-
lege student intern to the lone female
weather anchor in metropolitan
Philadelphia, the nation’s fourth-largest
broadcast market. And like so many
W&L students before her, she got her
start at WDBJ. “During my junior year,
I wanted a spring internship, and I was
looking at one of the other local televi-
sion stations,” Tynan recalls. “I remem-

24

7Oo 1

 

ber Professor [Hampden] Smith saying,
‘Well, if you go there, you'll learn what
not to do. If you want to learn how to do
it right, go to WDBJ.””

Tynan excelled as a reporter and
continued to work at the station as fill-in
help that summer. She was hired by the
station as a part-time reporter the fol-
lowing spring—an unprecedented move
for a student still in school—and after a
year of part-time reporting, she was ele-
vated to weekend weather anchor, a
move that would pay untold dividends
to her career.

Tynan left Roanoke in 1993 for the
ABC affiliate in Las Vegas, where she
was first the morning weather anchor
and later co-host of “Good Morning Las
Vegas.” She expected to be in Las
Vegas for some time, but all that
changed last April—two days before her
marriage to Michael Badger °91. ‘Tynan
got a call from the news director at
WPVI-TV, the ABC-owned-and-cperat-
ed affiliate in Philadelphia and the mar-
ket’s No. 1 station. They needed a
weekend weather anchor, and someone
from the station had caught Tynan’s TV
act in Las Vegas during a National
Association of Broadcasters convention.
Soon after the wedding, the newlyweds
packed their bags and left predominate-
ly hot-and-dry Nevada for the more
meteorogically challenging City of
Brotherly Love.

“I wanted to get to a top-ten mar-
ket, but I thought it would be further
down the road,” says Tynan, who did 13

 

7

“SHE’S A CONSUMMATE
TELEVISION JOURNALIST
OF THE ’90S. SHE HAS
PERSONALITY AS WELL As __
FIRST-RATE REPORTING _
SKILLS. | DON’T THINK
SHE’S DONE YET.” 4
_JIM SHAVER, VICE PRESIDENT |
OF NEWS AND PROGRAMMING ay —

WDBJ, WHO HIRED TYNAN PART.
TIME AS A SENIOR WHILE AT Wai

a 4
-
5

hours of live remotes outside the studi
during the station’s continuous covers x
of the Blizzard of ’96, which dumped 3f
inches of snow on Philadelphia. “I ce .
sider myself very lucky and sometime:
can’t believe it.” 5

“She’s a consummate television —
journalist of the ’90s,” Shaver says ¢ :
Tynan. She has personality as well a
first-rate reporting skills. I don’t think
she’s done yet.”

“We produce a terrific product,”
adds deMaria. “WDBJ further molds
that product, shapes it, and creates ou ,
standing journalists—Mattesky, Bill-
ingsley, Tynan. And we’re not done yet.”

  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  

On the occasion of the Blue Ridg
Parkway’s 50th anniversary in 1985,
WDB] planned to produce a series of
vignettes, and Jim Shaver wanted some-
one special to anchor the segments. 0
the southwest Virginia native called
upon someone he remembered watch:
ing on TV as a young man. |

And Ron MacDonald jumped at
chance. “I hadn’t done on-camera Work
in such a long time,” he recalls, “and
gave me the chance to worked wi
videotape for the first time. When I le
[in 1969], we were still using film.”

With video crew in tow, MacDoné
traveled the length of the Parkwa@
twice, producing and anchoring 25 S€
ments. His work won top honors ffe
the UPI for broadcast features—and
longtime WDBJ viewers, it was 4
come visit from a dear old friend. @

 

 

E U N I

 

May

1946
1971

1951
1976

THURSDAY EVENING, May 2
REUNION KEYNOTE ADDRESS
SPEAKER: Sidney Coulling °46,
Professor of English Emeritus
RECEPTION at the Alumni House

FRIDAY, MAy 3

REUNION SEMINARS

COCKTAILS WITH THE FACULTY

REUNION CONCERT University Choral Ensembles

 

Oo; 3,4

HONORING THE UNDERGRADUATE AND LAW CLASSES

1966
1991

1956
1981

1961
1986

BUFFET DINNER featuring the Johnny McClenon Big Band
REUNION DANCE featuring Spectrum

SATURDAY, May 4

ANNUAL JOINT MEETING of the Undergraduate and
Law Alumni Associations in Lee Chapel

CLASS MEETINGS

PICNIC LUNCHEON

CLASS BANQUETS AND PARTIES

 

 

Ws ney So gerq. N UGe se

ON Ao wee eS iets «2

 

Armchairs

me
\\ | THI

ae — a i
E . s - €
a
on

< a
: x~ =
) ri > il %
a ¢ la
Le ke ar f
s
J
ern "
¥ | ee
2 A
, be

 

     

ae

\

eo
5
a?

 

 

 

mee _— eit

— BOSTON ROCKER [| ARMCHAIR
Black lacquer Black lacquer with
or cherry arms or

Dark pine $250 Dark pine $250

‘The Boston Rocker requires some assembly.
Make check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Prices
include freight charges. Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery.

eee

 

and Rockers

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-
rubbed in black lacquer or dark pine stain. The five-color
crest of the University is painted on the back of each chair or
rocker. They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture and
are welcome gifts for birthdays, graduation, Christmas,
anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham °14.

Order by phone or fax! Credit card orders may be placed by
calling (540) 463-8464 or by faxing this form to the W&L
Alumni Office at (540) 463-8473. Or mail your order to:
Washington and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA 24450.

ORDERED BY

 

SHIP TO

 

STREET ADDRESS
City/STATE/ZIP
DAYTIME PHONE

 

 

 

(1) VISA (1) CHECK

CARD NUMBER/EXPIRATION DATE

METHOD OF PAYMENT [) MASTERCARD

 

NAME AS IT APPEARS ON CARD

 

 

 

 

St. Louis banker
Andrew Baur ’66,
an avid Cardinals fan
since childhood,
fulfills a lifelong fantasy
as a principal membe
of baseball’s newest

ownership team

   
  
 
 
 
  

 

    
  

You might say that Andrew N. (Drew)
Baur 66 bleeds Cardinal red. The St.
Louis native has been going to Card-
inals baseball games all his life, and
some of his earliest childhood memories
are of former Cards executive Branch
Rickey sitting on his grandfather’s porch
talking baseball.

“I’ve been watching them for 43
years, Says Baur, “and last year was the
worst Cardinals team I ever saw. They
didn’t have a pitcher who won 10 games
and they didn’t have any established
stars to lead them.” So after watching
his beloved Cardinals limp to a 62-81
record in 1995—second-worst in the
National League—what did he do?

He bought the team.

“It’s a kid’s fantasy coming true,”
admits Baur, who, along with Frederick
Hanser, William DeWitt Jr., and several
other partners, purchased the club from
Anheuser-Busch in late December for a
reported $150 million. “They were the
only team I would have ever owned,” he
says, “and frankly, I never had any idea
that the brewery would ever sell the
team. But when we found out about it,
my partners and I decided to give it a
whirl. And damn if we didn’t do it.”

Even before buying the Cardinals,
Baur made a name for himself in St.
Louis as one of the area’s banking lead-
ers. He became a bank president by age
30, just four years after earning his mas-
ter’s in business from Georgia State, and
on his 40th birthday, he led a group of
Mvestors that bought Southwest Bank.
In the 12 years since, the bank has
S'own fivefold under Baur’s leadership
by €xpanding into new areas while
femaining true to its home base—the
ltalian-American section of the city
Known as The Hill, where local baseball

ja

 

The Cards’ new owners
aim to turn around the
team’s fortunes with a
new manager and a
$35-million payroll, up
$7 million from 1995.

icons Yogi Berra and Joe Garagiola grew
up across the street from one another.

Despite his years as a banker, Baur
was not fully prepared for the economics
of the national pastime: “The finances
in baseball are different than in any
other business I’ve been involved with.”
Anheuser-Busch, which owned the team
for 42 years, claims it lost $12 million
last year, and baseball is still in a state of
unrest with no labor agreement in place.

As the club’s fortunes have gone
south in recent years, so has attend-
ance: The Cardinals drew 1.7 million
fans to Busch Stadium during last year’s
strike-shortened season, down sharply
from the more than 3 million fans the
team frequently drew in the late ’80s.
“We're working on ticket sales and
we're a little bit behind 1994 right
now,” Baur says, “but that’s understand-
able, considering the strike.”

Helping to increase those ticket sales
will be a fresh new look for the
Cardinals this season, starting with the
restoration of natural grass to Busch
Stadium. More important, though, will
be new faces on the field and in the

dugout. In addition to hiring manager
Tony LaRussa, who guided the Oakland
Athletics to three American League
pennants and the 1989 World Champ-
ionship, the club has_ signed outfielder
Ron Gant (five years, $25 million) and
Starting pitcher Andy Benes (two years,
$8.1 million) in the free-agent market
and traded four prospects to the A’s for
starting pitcher Todd Stottlemyre. In
addition, the team has acquired third
baseman Gary Gaetti, shortstop Royce
Clayton, relief pitchers Rick Honeycutt
and Gregg Olson, and outfielder Willie
McGee, who played on the Cardinals’
1985 and 1987 National League champi-
onship teams. All told, the new owner-
ship group will spend some $35 million
on this year’s payroll—$7 million more
than in 1995.

‘Those moves should help the Cards
contend for a postseason appearance
immediately, but St. Louis baseball fans
may be even happier that their team will
remain in the city given the nature of
relocation among professional sports
teams of late. New owners Baur, Hanser,
and DeWitt—all graduates of St. Louis
Country Day—want nothing more than
to produce a winner for their hometown.
“Baseball still has a ways to go,” Baur
admits, “but it’s coming back.”

Baur—whose father, Andrew °37, and
son, Andrew °90, are both alumni—
played two years of tennis and a year of
freshman basketball at Washington and
Lee, but he never gave serious thought
to donning a Generals baseball uniform:
“I never could hit a curveball,” he
explains. That might be true, but as
spring training draws near, Baur now
finds himself playing in the majors in
the middle of baseball’s biggest deals.

—By Brian Logue

27

Baur Photo: Mary Butkus/Associated Press

W&L Law

Should Virginia Military Institute
admit women?

The answer to that question may be a
moot point by this spring (the U.S.
Supreme Court will hear the VMI case
on Jan. 17 and decide sometime after
that), but the debate has been waged in
and beyond Lexington for what seems
an eternity, and has been a recurrent
topic in constitutional law classes at
Washington and Lee for some time now.
W&L law students took the arguments
to new heights in early November in
Lee Chapel during the final round of
the 16th annual John W. Davis Moot
Court Competition.

The names may have been changed
—the fictitious case was presented as
United States v. Davis Military Institute—
but the question at hand remained the
same: “Did the Fourteenth Circuit err
in holding that the all-male admissions
policy of Davis Military Institute (i.e.,
VMI) violates the equal protection
clause and, if not, did the 14th Circuit
err in holding that the proposed remedy,
the Davis Women’s Institute for Lead-
ership (i.e. VWIL, Virginia Women’s
Institute for Leadership at Mary
Baldwin College) is a sufficient remedy
for the equal protection violation?”

A larger than usual crowd of specta-
tors—including reporters from the
Associated Press and other newspapers,
representatives from VMI, and women
students, effulgent in their VMI-like
uniforms, from Mary Baldwin’s VWIL
program—heard excellent arguments
from both sides.

What they did not hear was a deci-
sion in the case.

The three U.S. Court of Appeals
judges—the Hon. Martha Craig
Daughtrey (Sixth Circuit), the Hon. M.
Blaine Michael (Fourth Circuit), and the
Hon. Kenneth F. Ripple (Seventh
Circuit)—only decided who had given
the best arguments. The winners, all
second-year students, were: best oralist

 

Courtney Camp (first place) and Mary
Eade (runner-up); best brief—Charles

28

7

The W&L Verdict: No ‘Ordinary’ Lawyers
Moot Court Competitors Debate VMI, Impress Judges

 

 

-

NN eT A ee —
~ x - ‘ it 7) ep? ~ pO 4S Fi
OS aA \ f) Ae ie fae
5 Yas . oe
: os = - : H a:
e y Sy

7

 

Moot court winners, all second-year students (from left): best brief winner Charles Mehler and

runner-up Shannon Plageman; best oralist winner Courtney Camp and runner-up Mary Eade,

Mehler (first place) and Shannon
Plageman (runner-up). As best oralist
winner, Camp was among a handful of
W&L law students who get to go to the
Supreme Court in January to hear the
VMI case. All four winners will compete
in a national appellate advocacy compe-
tition in Washington, D.C., in March.

Camp argued in favor of the U.S.
government, saying it is unlawful to
exclude women from a state institution,
while Eade argued in favor of diversity
in single-sex education—the argument
put forth by VMI and the state of
Virginia with its two single-sex leader-
ship-style programs.

“At first, | agreed with VMI,” says
Camp. “But now, I am much more sym-
pathetic with the U.S. Personally, I
think VMI should go private—either go
private or accept women.”

While arguing in favor of VMI, Eade
feels the weakness of VMI’s argument
is that the VWIL program ts not equiva-
lent in requirements—physical rigor,
mental stress, or the lack of privacy—
that comprise the program at VMI. “I
think it is going to come down to the

court deciding whether or not the adver
sative model”—the tearing-down and
building-up method used in the training
of the U.S. Marine Corps after which
VMI is modeled—“is a worthwhile
methodology for pedagogical goals,” she
says. “If the courts rule against VMI
they are saying the adversative model is
not a type of educational methodology
worth preserving.”

According to organizer Eric Chaffin
'96L, chairman of the Moot Court Board
(and last year’s winner of best brief and
runner-up for best oralist), the mock
VMI case was an ideal study for this
year’s competition: With the case Com
ing up before the Supreme Court in
January, it was “the perfect time” 0 do
the research. As W&L’s closest neigh
bor, VMI’s public records were readily
accessible to students.

An added advantage for studen®s
Chaffin says, was the counsel of Dean
Barry Sullivan, who is no stranget 9
appearing before the Supreme Couft of
its appellate cousins. And, now that all
students are required to take conSUel
tional law at the same time—in the first

semester of their second year—“the stu-
dents were able to take the arguments
ro a different level and at a much faster
pace,” Chaffin says.

Named for the legendary appellate
lawyer and W&L alumnus (1892, 1895L),
the John W. Davis Competition is held
each fall and administered by third-year
students who serve on the Moot Court
Board. Three faculty members judge
the semifinal rounds. Students wishing
to represent W&L in national competi-
tions are selected on the basis of their
ranking in the Davis Competition.

The moot court format provides both
a competitive and a learning experience
for second- and third-year law students.
In addition to the opportunity to
increase their skills in oral advocacy,
participants’ writing skills are evaluated
with the submission of a brief on the
issues dealt with in oral argument.

“If you are going to be a litigator, it’s
an invaluable experience,” Eade says of
the moot court competition. In the pre-
liminary rounds, each student partici-
pant argues both sides. “It teaches you
how to analyze an appellate issue,” she
notes, “and argue it effectively in a
somewhat confrontational atmosphere.”

Adds Camp: “It teaches you how to
write a brief and how to speak—not only
in front of your peers, but also in front of
the faculty. And then you get to argue in
front of judges. It’s a great way to gain
confidence. And the judges’ critique
was so helpful.”

Judge Daughtrey drew chuckles from
the audience when, pointing to the mili-
tarily-clad onlookers in Lee Chapel, she
offered these words of advice to the stu-
dent participants: “Don’t bring your
clients to court in appellate court
Presentation.” But she was markedly
impressed with the extremely strong
oral presentations of the two winners.
“Nothing is more appreciated,” she said,
“than a good, snappy, ‘Listen to me,
Judge, I’ve really got something to tell
you’ opening that brings us up out of
OUT seats.”

Added Judge Ripple: “I simply do
Not see how anyone could go through
Washington and Lee law school and

Come just an ordinary lawyer.”

—By Evan Atkins

 

Alumni News

 

Back in 1990, when special programs
director Rob Fure teed off for an after-
noon round of golf in Ireland with Lance
‘Tarrance 63 during the “Celts & Kilts”
Alumni College, he had no idea his 79th
shot—a 40-foot putt on the last hole—
would win him a historic match, much
less a two-foot-tall memento. “Lance
said he would send me something to
commemorate the day, and two weeks
later I received a huge crate with that
‘Texas-sized trophy in it,” Fure recalls,
pointing to a mammoth golf trophy
engraved with the words WASHINGTON
& LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI—WORLD
Cup INVITATIONAL.

“We had such fun that day,” Fure
adds, “that Lance said we should try to
have an annual golf tournament in dif-
ferent places around the world involving
any alumni who wanted to play.” The
following year, Tarrance and Fure were
joined by Jim Bent ’82 and Lexington
mayor H.E. (Buddy) Derrick in a second
World Cup Invitational on the Alumni
College’s New Zealand trip. The event
was called after 16 holes because of rain,
“but we did try,” Tarrance recalls. For
the next three years, the Office of
Special Programs sponsored golf outings
at The Homestead in between the
Alumni Colleges back home.

30

3

Teeing Off a New Alumni Tradition
The W&L Open Links Generations, One Foursome at a Time

 

 

In 1993, the Alumni Office got into
the act. Through the combined efforts
of Jim Farrar ’74, director of alumni pro-
grams, and Brian Shaw, director of com-

munications and publications, the World
Cup Invitational format was expanded
into an open tournament and was
rechristened, appropriately enough, the
Washington and Lee Open. The event
drew 69 golfers of all ages, ranging from
the Class of °37 to the Class of ’92, with
handicaps and abilities at every skill
level. Many spouses joined the revelry,
and prizes were awarded for men’s and
women’s low gross and low net, as well
as longest drive, closest to the pin, and
most birdies. “In 1994 and 1995, we
were unable to schedule a tournament
that worked,” Farrar says, “so the 1996
W&L Open is long overdue.”

If this all sounds like a sales pitch,
well, it is. Farrar is hoping for a record
turnout for this year’s Open, to be held
June 28-30 (the weekend preceding the
Alumni College on Robert E. Lee). The
format will be similar to that of the 1993
Open. The schedule on Friday, June 28,
allows for golf at Lexington Country
Club if desired, followed by a reception
and cookout at the Alumni House.
(Accommodations can be arranged for
either Gaines Hall or any of the local

Alumni fanaticism for golf knows no
bounds, as H. Frederick T. Moore ’80

(left) and classmate J. Clay Crumbliss wil]
attest. The occasion was last year’s Swing.
Ding Tournament, a member-guest outing at
the Lookout Mountain (Tenn.) Golf Club.
“Clay and I ended up winning the third

Slight as well as the prestigious Group

Which Had the Most Fun award,” Moore
writes. The pair called themselves the
Generals, and were in complete uniform—
WEL hats, shirts, the Trident logo on

the front of the cart, and a huge banner
(held by Crumbliss’ son, Clay Jr.)
unfurling behind. “We had a CD box
which boomed ‘The WEL Swing’ whenever
we hit a good shot or won a hole.”

Now, that’s WEL spirit for you.

motels). On Saturday morning, June 29,
participants will depart early for The
Homestead and The Cascades course. A
reception and dinner will follow at The
Cascades clubhouse with accommoda-
tions that night at The Homestead. On
Sunday, June 30, golfers will play a shot
gun-start competition on The Home-
stead course, followed by a reception
and awards ceremony.

“The Homestead is an ideal location
for this tournament,” says Farrar. “It
allows us to draw alumni back to Lex-
ington and have a delightful golf resort
component at the same time.”

Past participants agree. “I always look
forward to golf at The Cascades and
spending time with friends from W&L,”
says Jack Vardaman ’°62—one of three
defending champions, owing to the lack
of a tiebreaker provision in the rule for
the 1993 invitational. A lot of alumni
attend and there’s a good variance of age
groups,” adds Stuart Houston °71, ‘74L,
who with his wife, Betsy, has played in
two of the tournaments as well. “I have
an absolute ball at these things,” Betsy
exclaims. “It’s a typically well-orge
nized, entertaining W&L event.”

Law Council president and fellow
defending co-champion David Red-
mond °66, °69L will be back: “It's 4

 

The par-3 No. 18 on The Cascades course
(above) at The Homestead, site of the 1996
WEL Open, to be held June 28-30. For
more info, contact Jim Farrar ’74 by phone
(540) 463-8464, by fax (540) 463-8473,
or by E-mail (dfarrar@wlu.edu).

great opportunity to return to Lexing-
ton, renew acquaintances, and enjoy a
unique golf experience at a top-10
mountain course,” Alumni Board mem-
ber Jay Turner ’67, ’71L echoes those
sentiments, adding: “I’ve made friends
with members of other classes whom I
might not have met without this event.”
Who would have thought that a sim-
ple golf duel in the British Isles would
blossom into a (nearly) annual alumni
event boasting up to 75 participants?
Tarrance, for one, isn’t too surprised. “It

doesn’t take much to start a tradition.”
—By Justin King ’95

Directory Assistance:
A Few Simple Questions

All Washington and Lee alumni with
current addresses—and if you are read-
ing this, this likely means you—will

 

 

soon be receiving a questionnaire in the
mail. ‘The questionnaire is being sent to
give every alumnus and alumna the
opportunity to be accurately listed in
the new Washington and Lee University
Alumni Directory to be published later
this year. Alumni are asked to complete
and return their questionnaires before
the deadline.

Once received, the information will
be edited and processed by the Bernard
C. Harris Publishing Co., the Alumni
Office’s partner in this venture, for
inclusion in the new directory. In the
months ahead, alumni will be contacted
directly by Harris to verify their data.

Alumni who don’t return their ques-
tionnaires may be inadvertently omitted
or incorrectly listed. So watch for your
questionnaire form and remember to
return it promptly!

Next time, we won’t ask so nice.

Nominations Sought
For Alumni Board

Each year a three-member nominat-
ing committee is impaneled to fill
vacant seats on the Alumni Board of
Directors and to elect an alumni repre-
sentative to the University Committee
on Intercollegiate Athletics. Under
Article 9 of the by-
laws of the Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni
Inc., all members of
the Alumni Associ-
ation may submit
names to the Nomi-
nating Committee
for nomination to the
offices to be filled.

The Nominating
Committee—composed of chairman
Robert K. Wittpenn ’82, Waller T.
Dudley °74, ’79L, and John W. Folsom
*73—is now receiving the names of can-
didates to fill five seats on the Alumni
Board of Directors and one vacancy on
the University Committee on Intercol-
legiate Athletics. Volunteer service to
Washington and Lee (as demonstrated
by alumni chapter activity, the Annual
Fund, the Alumni Admissions Program,
and Career Development and Place-
ment) is an important consideration for
all candidates.

Alumni may send names directly to
Wittpenn c/o Rockland Corp., P.O. Box
809, West Caldwell, NJ 07007, by fax to
Wittpenn at (201) 575-4919, or to the
office of the Executive Secretary of the
Alumni Association by March 18.

 

Bob Wittpenn '82

 

31

Homestead Photos: Steve Szurlej/Golf Digest ©1996

 

 

Fort Worth was honored as WEL’s Small
Chapter of the Year Jan. 26 during a Robert
E.. Lee reception and dinner attended by
President and Mrs. Elrod. Sharing the
kudos are Alumni Admissions Program
chairman Dan Tatum ’85, President Elrod,
chapter vice president Whit Kelly ’84, and
chapter president Marshall Young ’85.

 

Dallas was the site of yet another Robert E.
Lee reception and dinner attended by
President and Mrs. Elrod on Jan. 25 at the
Park City Club. T Hardie ’73, his wife,
Susie, and Guy Kerr ’75 were among the
many Cowboys fans who started celebrating
early. (Alumni director and longtime Red-

skins fan Jim Farrar ’74 was there, too.)

 

Maybe it was Memphis: (From left) Walter
Scott °91, Duncan Miller ’92, Leigh Webb,

and Garnett Wilbourn '92 showed up on

Jan. 23 for the Mid-South gathering honor-

ing General Lee and the Elrods.

32

A Robert E. Lee reception and dinner honor-
ing John and Mimi Elrod was held in Little
Rock, Ark., on Jan. 24, at the Little Rock
Country Club. Local alumni VIPs tn atten-
dance included Tyndall Dickinson '39, ’41L,
and his wife, Carrie, and Ray West '51.
More than 30 chapters held Lee and Wash-

ington parties in January and February.

 

 

 

 

The Washington (D.C.) chapter hosted a
reception honoring President John Elrod
and Mimi Milner Elrod at the Army-Navy
Club Nov. 1. Shown above are (from left)
Farris Hotchkiss ’58, vice president for
university relations, former Washington
chapter president Steve Abraham ‘80, ’83L,
current chapter president John Falk ’86,
‘QOL, and President E/rod.

  

Charlotte held its own Robert E. Lee party
at the Withers House on Jan. 26. Shown
above are Tom Hunter 77, '83L, Career
Development and Placement director Beverly
Lorig, and Kathy Howe, wife of Harold
Howe ’76. Associate alumni director Rob

Mish °76 and singers General Admission

were also along for the ride.

 

Trustee emeritus Bo DuBose ’62 and his
wife, Eileen, shown here with John and
Mimi EIrod, opened their home for the last
time for a truly special Robert E. Lee recep-
tion on Jan. 19, Lee’s birthday, in Atlanta.
Dean of admissions and financial aid Bill
Hartog was also in attendance, which drew

in excess of 400 celebrants.

 

Attorney John Howard ’57 (left) and
“Mr. WEL,” Joe Keelty ’44, were among
the many Baltimoreans present honoring
President and Mrs. Elrod with a recep
and dinner at the Elkridge Club Nov. 2:

-

Annual Fund Goal $2,875,000
Alumni Giving by Undergraduate
and Law Classes through Jan. 31 eet | $2,257,198

 

 

 

Class/Agent Donors Dollars Participation (%) Goal (%) Class/Agent Donors Dollars Participation (%) Goal (%)
02-19 2 $100 33.3 10.0 ’64L Pete Straub 18 3,200 42.9 71.1
20-"29 14 4,075 13.9 40.8 65 Hal Chase 63 24,416 30.1 64.3
’20-'29L 0 0 0.0 0.0 *65L Dan Balfour 14 2,400 34.2 68.6
30 Herb Jahncke 13 6,030 36.1 60.3 66 J. Baber, R. Lee 70 18,050 32.6 72.2
°30L 1 250 50.0 250.0 66L Henry Counts 6 3,550 14.6 47.3
"31 8 1,550 20.0 44.3 ‘67 Jay Turner 69 18,993 35.2 57.6
"SIL 2 3,250 33.3 162.5 ’67L Bob Powell 12 3,188 26.7 42.5
"32 5 500 12.8 33.3 ‘68 Joe Matthews 82 52,028 38.0 78.2
"32L 2 250 25.0 83.3 ‘68L Joe Brown 12 3,125 20.0 52.1
33 Charlie Longacre 19 12,228 34.6 163.0 ‘69 R. Hartwell, P. Norwood 84 59,371 35.3 99.0
"33L 2 150 50.0 75.0 69L Donald McFall 11 3,828 20.0 58.9
34 Scotty Mosovich 19 5,875 31.2 58.8 70 Christopher Coursen 78 57,804 32.2 88.9
"34L 2 1,300 28.6 650.0 *70L Ed Crosland 10 7,625 25.6 108.9
"35 13 2,440 24.1 69.7 ‘71 Drake Leddy 75 45,675 25.7 68.7
*35L 1 100 14.3 50.0 *71L Rob Hartmann 9 5,800 15.8 72.5
"36 16 5,030 24.2 62.9 °72 Bruce Wilsie, Don Weir 76 37,390 24.2 53.4
"36L 2 200 40.0 66.7 °72L S. Annand, M. Heatwole 12 6,550 17.9 72.8
"37 26 8,600 31.0 86.0 *73 Meade Kampfmueller 81 29,663 23.6 74.2
‘37L 0 0 0.0 0.0 ‘73L Greg Digel 35 8,833 36.8 67.9
38 Ernie Williams 28 25,207 31.5 84.0 °74 Jim Farrar 109 39,559 30.0 74.6
"38L 5 2,150 62.5 126.5 °74L Steve Elkins 18 10,519 21.2 55.4
39 George Goodwin 33 23,297 25.8 58.2 75 G. Kerr, S. Van Amburgh 84 27,065 26.7 52.1
°39L 7 2,150 38.9 71.7 *75L Grady Frank 19 15,925 24.4 79.6
40 Ross Hersey 37 57,740 35.2 96.2 °76 Gary Seldomridge 68 30,724 19.9 74.9
‘40L 3 350 30.0 70.0 ‘76L Pat Arey 17 5,230 23.3 43.6
‘41 Al Fleishman 40 17,709 32.3 88.5 ‘77 Jimmy Brooks s+ 28,997 24.9 70.7
“41L 3 1,677 30.0 28.0 °77L Morgan Maxwell 23 8,030 30.7 89.2
‘42 Jim Warms 42 14,281 32.8 71.4 78 Peter Keefe 81 17,855 23.2 47.0
"42L 4 950 18.2 31.7 *78L John Klinedinst 17 10,470 24.3 61.6
"“43A&L Al Darby 43 15,606 32.1 78.0 ‘79 J. Bovay, S. Jones 69 21,155 18.7 66.1
“4AKL 28 10,100 21.4 50.5 *79L Murph Murphy 33 10,375 27.7 83.0
“45AKL 24 16,401 24.0 91.1 *80 Sidney Simmons 88 16,585 23.7 57.2
“46AKL 25 7,438 31.3 62.0 *80L Chris Wolf 24 6,980 22.0 66.5
"47A&L Warren Merrin 13 4,478 26.5 64.0 81 J.R. Sult 62 14,667 20.0 54.3
"48 Andy McCutcheon 23 5,470 37.7 60.8 *81L Dave Weaver 23 6,020 19.8 50.2
"48L Carter Allen 21 4,941 38.9 28.2 82 Tripp Brower 77 25,577 24.3 96.5
‘49 Charlie Treadgold 47 12,202 31.8 53.1 *82L D. Black, L. Thomas 26 3,640 23.6 48.5
"49L Bill Greer 4 2,350 8.0 47.0 83 David Cole 69 17,405 19.7 81.0
‘50 Dug Dugger 87 51,699 38.7 79.5 *83L Millard Fretland 30 5,722 23.1 104.1
‘SOL Tom Crittenden 17 6,365 47.2 60.6 84 Stradtman, Thompson = 75 13,160 21.3 41.1
‘51 Arthur Hollins 75 70,750 41.4 101.1 *84L Mike Pace 20 3,665 18.2 52.4
SIL 16 6,400 29.1 71.1 *85 Fred Renner 99 16,165 27.5 73.5
‘52 Boyd Leyburn Jr. 58 26,801 35.6 63.8 ’85L Joseph Newell 18 2,715 14.4 30.2
’S2L. 7 6,510 20.6 72.3 *86 R. Ellis, J. Slack 113 11,040 33.0 64.9
‘53 G. Castle, P. Smith 71 98,796 39.7 87.1 *86L Kirk Ludwig 17 1,580 14.4 52.7
*53L 9 1,450 32.1 29.0 87 J. Atkins, A. Caruthers 106 13,596 30.6 90.6
'S4 J. Cross, W. Wright 60 26,141 31.4 65.4 *87L Dayton Haigney 17 1,997 14.9 57.1
'54L Don Klenk 8 2,270 33.3 56.8 *88 J. Gammage, G. Schulz 134 13,232 37.1 98.0
‘55 Raymond Smith 53 42,298 35.6 74.2 *88L Powell Starks 19 3,425 15.5 97.9
"S5L Jay Jackson 12 5,377 46.2 71.7 *89 J. Drake, A. Hinkle,

‘36 J. Lunger, C. MacIntosh 52 21,971 31.0 73.0 K. Kelso, W. Singletary 128 9,238 32.7 63.7
‘S6L Reno Harp § 2,700 27.8 67.5 *89L A. Ragan, D. Martinson 17 2,755 14.3 68.9
‘57 Dick Laskey 59 25,770 34.5 81.8 °90 John Durant 134 9,251 31.8 84.1
'S7L Opie Pollard 8 7,475 29.6 68.0 90L L. Ellis, T. Hodge 15 1,575 12.8 52.5
‘S58 Howard Packett 66 42,088 33.7 75.2 91 S. White, C. Meyer 127 9,775 27.4 78.2
‘S8L Mark Davis 11 8,100 50.0 73.6 "91L V. Gibson, T. O’Brien 11 1,790 9.7 39.8
‘59 Ted McKeldin Jr. 74 78,368 39.6 112.0 92 J. Cox, G. Wilbourn 128 6,710 31.4 74.6
‘S9L Bill Lemon 11 9,825 42.3 109.2 92L M. Harrison, J. Lane 13 1,100 10.3 44.0
‘60 Dave Weaver 69 25,624 36.1 50.2 "93 J. Levinson, A. Salisbury 156 8,305 36.9 97.7
‘60L Bill Crowell Jr. 6 900 18.8 22.5 °93L W. Godlewski,

‘61 Calvert deColigny 61 45,964 34.3 114.9 C. Lawson 23 1,565 16.2 52.2
SIL Michael Masinter 10 4,050 31.3 62.3 94 J. Kull, G. Nielsen 188 20,987 48.7 233.2
‘62 Jack Vardaman Jr. 68 46,382 32.7 81.4 94L L.Kleine, B. Surgner 26 2,020 21.7 57.7
62L William Moore 7 1,260 25.0 28.0 "95 M. Crider, E. Holleman 247 5,435 59.2 77.6
‘63 Thomas Moore Jr. 60 23,082 29.4 50.2 "95L S. Copeland, J. Pike 73 2,788 59.4 111.5
63L ‘Timothy Ireland 8 2,250 28.6 45.0

64 Don McFall 79 38,393 35.0 85.3 (Class figures as of December 31, 1995.)

Class Notes

Pe

John L. Early

celebrated his 99th birthday in
December and retains “the mind of
the good lawyer” he was. Early
spent Christmas in Tallahassee,
Fla., with his son and grandchildren.

30

Charles W. Cocke

has been elected president of the
Thomas Golden “K,” the Kiwanis
Club in his hometown of Thomas-
ville, Ga.

’

34
Fred D. Funkhouser
received high honors from the
Harrisonburg (Va.) Rotary Club with
the Paul Harris Fellow last August.
Since retiring in 1966 (after merging
his Spotswood Bank with United
Bank in Richmond), he has played
golf all over the world.

J. Carl Muller

recently enjoyed a visit with college
roommate Ollie Colburn in Boston,
whom he had not seen since gradua-
tion. They are both “in reasonably
good health and enjoying life,” he
writes.

Dr. G. William Pedigo Jr.

is retired from the active practice of
medicine but is on the executive
committee of the Board of Over-
seers of the University of Louisville.
He also attends weekly scientific
medical programs and helps to
secure the visiting professor for the
annual Pedigo Lectureship held
each year at the Medical School.

35

Gilbert R. Swink Jr.

enjoys retirement and the fishing
and traveling it affords. He recently
returned from a trip to Marco Island,
Fla., with his brother Fred °30, ’32L,
and their wives.

Thomas K. Williams
of New Providence, N.J., lost his
wife of 58 years last year.

36

William M. Allen

won first place in the humor catego-
ry for verse in the Kentucky State
Poetry Society Contest 1995. He
also won first place for his short
story in the Senior Writers contest in
Louisville.

Price M. Davis Jr.

of Mequon, Wis., was honored as
“chief sparkplug” of Second Harvest,
food gatherers for the needy, reports
classmate Charlie Sweet.

Dr. Martin Z. Kaplan

was one of 15 Americans honored
by the Carnegie Hero Fund Com-
mission for saving two men from a
Sarasota (Fla.) riptide in March
1994. He is retired from his pedi-
atrics practice and lives with his
wife, Horty, in Louisville, Ky.

Dr. Herbert E. Sloan

of Ann Arbor, Mich., is trying “one

last trip” from China to Moscow “if
his knees hold out”—again accord-

ing to classmate Charlie Sweet.

’

3S
Seth N. Baker
volunteers weekly at the hospital
and sometimes guest lectures at St.
Peter’s College. He enjoys main-
taining his lawn, editing his mem-
oirs, and reports that he is very good
“at doing nothing!” He lives in
Chatham, N.]J.

John E. Neill

still lives in Southern Pines, N.C.,
except for the three summer months
he spends in Ontario, Canada, on
the Big Rideau Lake. He has “got-
ten a kick” out of helping with the
republication of a book of memoirs
from the 1930s by Katharine Ripley
titled Sand in My Shoes.

Dr. Chester Schept
is retired and volunteering for United
Cerebral Palsy of Queens, N.Y.

Calvert Thomas

is chairman of Thomas Cadillac,
which recently became Thomas
Cadillac Jaguar after an acquisition
directed by son Doug Thomas °74,
°77L, the dealership’s vice president
and general manager.

The Hon. Thomas A. Williams Jr.
and his wife, Dorothy, have moved
from their home of 39 years into a
condominium in Richmond. They
also rented a house at Virginia
Beach and extend an open invita-
tion to friends.

SIL

The Hon. Thomas A. Williams Jr.
See °38.

"40

Homer D. Jones Jr.

has become an expert of late on
spina bifida. He travels to confer-
ences, medical centers, and pedi-
atric neurosurgeons “so that my
five-year-old granddaughter will fol-
low her grandmother and be the
belle of a Fancy Dress Ball.” Jones
lives in Princeton, N.]J.

Eugene M. (Doc) Kramer

of Washington, D.C., is presently in
a nursing home. He has Alzheimer’s
disease.

40L

Calvert Thomas
See °38.

4]

Capt. Franklin W. Hynson
and classmate Art Smith are in the
same Masonic Lodge in Washing-
ton, D.C., and see each other from
time to time.

42

Robert F. Campbell Jr.

has returned to his hometown of
Asheville, N.C., after 40 years and is
taking senior courses at the Univer-
sity of North Carolina at Asheville.

Harrell F. Morris

and his wife traveled with the
Alumni College to Switzerland last
summer and attended the World
War II Homecoming at W&L in the
fall. He was “profoundly moved” by
the VMI Regimental review honor-
ing W&L vets. The couple lives in
Newport News, Va.

‘43

Stanley R. Mitchell

hosted classmate Neely Young and
his wife, Sharon, in his Malibu
(Calif.) home over the summer. He
enjoyed the company of classmate
Jeff Hudson a month later.

Linton F. Murdock

is “still actively retired” and lives in
California with his wife, Nancy.
They spend seven months in
Pebble Beach, Calif., and the other
five in Santa Barbara, where he
swims and plays golf.

44

Robert M. DeHaven

of Encino, Calif., was honored by
the trustees of the Santa Monica
Museum of Flying as one of the
“Great Test Pilots of the 20th
Century” in October.

’

49
Dr. D. Earl Brown Jr.
is the managing vice president of
Abt Associates Inc. and is responsi-
ble for clinical research and epi-
demiology. He is also director of the
Washington (D.C.) office of Abt, a
social sciences policy research firm.

William A. Chipley

was inducted as a charter member
into the Lynchburg Sports Hall of
Fame at a banquet in October. He
was a member of the 1938 E.C.

 
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

Glass High School state hamp;-
onship team and becasail the firer
Lynchburg resident to Play pro
ball. In 1947 and 1948, he p -
offensive and defensive eng fort 3
Boston Yanks, who became the N, :
York Bulldogs in 1949, Chipley
third that year among NFL
receivers with 57 catches.

Ben E. Grimm

has retired from library cons
and enjoys playing tennis, riding
horses, and traveling more ofte
currently serves as president of th,
Orange County (Va.) Historical _
Society and lives in Rapidan, _

Spencer W. Morten 7
retired five years ago and spends
winter months in Hobe Sound, F
In the summer, he lives in Bz
Va., where his son, Spencer I]
runs Bassett Mirror. é

Dr. William C. Smith Jr.
recently completed a 15-month >
interim pastorate at People’s C
of Dover in Delaware and ne
in Greensboro, N.C. .

’
50

John R. Baldwin 3
of Yuma, Ariz., is president of
Saguaro Foundation, which has
eight group homes for the ¢
mentally disabled and mentally
retarded. He is also chairman ¢
Emergency Room Volunteers
Yuma Regional Medical Cente

The Rev. Stanley C. Brown
is enjoying the fourth year of re
ment in Payson, Ariz., after 40
in the United Methodist pastor
He is currently writing historic
novels (see Bookshelf, page 7) at
regional history.
R. Dabney Chapman
of Shepherdstown, W.Va., retire
from foreign service in 1986
from teaching German and Rt
at Shepherd College in 1994.

John P. French
of Scottsdale, Ariz., recently se
new company for his family cli
business providing real-time f
called Lucy Online, after me

away from daily involvement
business world. His recent boo
Zap the Fat, is based on his eff
eat healthy following quintuf

bypass heart surgery nine yea
French and his wife, Nancy, ™%
also turned over the operatior
130-bed Christian Retreat Cet
near Phoenix to daughter E

Albert H. Hamel
closed his law office in St. Le
years ago and lives in Edgarte
Mass., with his wife, April, im
island home. He is also 50th-f
chairman and newsletter edit¢
the big bash in 2000. :

g

Dr. Donald D. Hook

has written several articles in the
scottish Journal of Theology, Worship
and Faith © Philosophy on theolin-
guistics, a field he pioneered five
years ago. The professor emeritus at
Trinity College in Hartford, Conn.,
notes that his articles “have angered
church leftists while they have but-
rressed doctrinal contentions of tra-

ditionalists.’

pr. Charles F.A. McCluer Jr.
has retired after practicing dermatol-
ogy in Fort Worth, Texas, for 33
years. He is enjoying a life of travel
and leisure with his wife, Berbie.

Oliver M. Mendell

of New York City continues as
senior vice president at Chemical
Bank (soon to merge into Chase
Manhattan), where he has worked
for 38 years. He remains chairman of
the USO of Metropolitan New York,
shoots a golf game in the mid-80s,
and was “delighted” to chair the
New York Campaign for Washing-
ton and Lee, which raised more

than $5 million for the University.

Fred T. Moffatt Jr.
is semi-retired and pastor of a small
Baptist church in Richmond.

Alden (Shorty) Murray

hosts a Sunday evening jazz pro-
gram on WYRE-AM in Annapolis,
Md., and also broadcasts a five-
minute vignette about famous jazz
personalities each Wednesday. He is
retired in Annapolis with his wife,
Judy, and is president of the Shear-
water Condominium Association.

C. William Pacy

is executive director of the Balti-
more Building Congress, an associa-
tion of commercial architects, engi-
neers, and contractors. He sails to
Maine every summer with his wife,
Brooke, and lives in Baltimore.

Franklin S. (Lin) Pease Jr.
retired in July after 27 years as a
self-employed manufacturers’ repre-
sentative in home furnishings. He
moved from Chatham, N.J., to Cape
Cod and is building a house that
looks out over Pleasant Bay.

Lacey E. Putney
has been elected to his 18th term in
the Virginia House of Delegates.

Barnett Robinson Jr.

has moved his principal law office
from Coral Gables, Fla., to Boca
Raton. He enjoys vacationing in the
Rockies. winter and summer.

Dr. F. Edwards Rushton
feceived the Primary Care Achieve-
Ment Award in Patient Care, pre-
sented at the Association of Aca-
demic Health Centers’ annual meet-
Mg in Denver last September. After
Working for the American Academy
of Pediatrics, he is now a practicing
Pediatrician in Castine, Maine.

—

W. Delaney Way
retired in March 1994 and is catch-
ing up on golf, tennis, and fishing.

G. William Whitehurst

taped two lectures for the History
Channel which will air this winter as
part of a University Lecture series.
The talks are taken from a course he
teaches at Old Dominion University
titled “Kings of the Hill,” a history
of speakers of the House.

’
51
Peter E. Forkgen
is retired from the Florida Dept. of
Agriculture and Consumer Services.
He enrolled in the Manatee Com-
munity College’s music program
and is aiming for an A.A. certificate
in piano in two years. He is “thor-
oughly enjoying this new venture—
a decades-long ambition!” He lives
in Bradenton.

Richard B. Taylor

has retired to a log cabin in the
Mount Charleston resort area north-
west of Las Vegas. He proclaims his
door open for any visiting classmates.

’
53

William L.G. Porter

is president of Ramsey Insurance

Agency. He and his wife, Lavern,

have two children and two grand-

children, and enjoy an active,

healthy life in Charleston, W.Va.

R.F. (Rod) Stock

is the “elected sublime grandnoble
of the 150,000-member ancient and
honorable order of ‘E Clampus
Vitus,” founded in 1845 in western
Virginia and moved to the western
gold fields in 1849. He will serve a
one-year term, “Clamper years
6000-6001.” He lives in Reno, Nev.

John A. Williamson Il

of Saratoga, Calif., is sailing his new
yacht from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., to
San Francisco—a 5 1/2-month trip.
Daniel G. Hartshorn °54 and his
wife, Joy, will come aboard in
Martinique.

‘54

Robert E. Bradford

was again elected chairman of the
National Easter Seal Society at its
annual convention in Honolulu. He
is senior vice president of Safeway
Inc. and lives in Danville, Calif.

William D. McHenry

will retire as director of physical
education, athletics, and recreation
at the College of Wooster on July
31. Since coming to Wooster from
Washington and Lee in 1991, the
college’s football stadium, track,
tennis courts, weight room, and
training room have been renovated,
remodeled, or replaced. Wooster’s

Where [here's a Will...

A stroll across the campus reveals the importance of
bequests to Washington and Lee. Evans Dining Hall, Robin-
son Hall, and Doremus Gymnasium, for instance, each honor
specific donors whose testamentary gifts remain vital to the

 

 

 

Mike Boyd is Washington and
Lee’s new director of planned
giving. He joined the University’s
development staff in 1992 as
assistant director of major gifts.

University’s ongoing success.
A bequest from the Lettie
Pate Evans Foundation, in
fact, today accounts for about
one-third of the University’s
$308-million endowment.
And it will never go away.
Yet perhaps the easiest
and most frequently over-
looked way to make a gift to
Washington and Lee is by
bequest. Large or small,
bequests provide benefits to
the donor and his family as
well as to the University.
Making charitable gifts by
will reduces potential estate-
tax liability—which at the
top federal tier can be as high
as 55 percent (and that’s
before counting additional

state estate taxes). As a donor, you can make a gift that will
often provide for your heirs’ financial needs by making a gift of
the residual, or the amount left over after specific bequests are
made. Another option is to establish a charitable remainder
trust by will, which will pay an income to your spouse or chil-
dren for their lives, after which the corpus passes to

Washington and Lee.

The most important benefit, however, is intangible—the
knowledge that long after you are done, Washington and Lee
students will be receiving an outstanding education as a result

of your support.

Making a charitable bequest is a matter of asking your
lawyer to include appropriate language in a new will (or create
a codicil to an existing will) bequesting to Washington and Lee
University a specific sum, a specific percentage of your estate,
or a portion of the remainder or residual of your estate after

other bequests are made. We would be happy to provide addi-

tional information upon request.

Michael T. Boyd
Director of Planned Giving

35

21 varsity teams combined to win
the 1994-95 North Coast Athletic
All-Sports Championship.

Laurence C. Palmer

is presently chief scientist at
Hughes Network Systems,
Germantown, Md.

J. Robert Wingert Jr.

retired from Dentsply International
last September after a 35-year career
in human resources. He plans to
travel and fish for trout a lot.

’

55
William L. Dols
now resides in Charlotte, where he
joined the staff of Myers Park
Baptist Church as minister of educa-
tion. He had served for the past
eight years as director of the
Educational Center in St. Louis.

Dudley B. Thomas

has retired after nearly five decades
in the newspaper business in Wash-
ington, D.C., Virginia, Ohio, and
Connecticut. He and his wife, Betsy,
have moved to Palm Coast, Fla.

’

56
Dr. Ronald W. Fast
received the Samuel C. Collins
Award for outstanding contributions
to cyrogenic technology at a Cyro-
genic Engineering Conference in
Columbus, Ohio, last July.

William D. Manning

married off the last of his three
daughters in 1995. He reportedly
“ran out of daughters and money at
the same time,” but has “a little left
for W&L and the tax collectors.”

William C. Norman Jr.

retired as chairman of the board of
First National Bank of Crossett,
Ark., last March. He maintains an
office in Crossett, where he attends
to personal investment matters and
various other projects.

Dr. William H. Williams

will retire from teaching this June
after 30 years as professor of history
at the University of Maryland at
College Park. He plans a trip to
India to visit major spiritual centers.

‘S6L

John A. Williamson Il
See °53.

’

57
Richard A. Moore
is president of Gaylord Brooks
Investment Co., which has recently
opened its River Downs community
featuring a championship 18-hole
golf course designed by Arthur Hills.

H. Merrill Plaisted I1l

of Richmond has received the
Howell H. Watson Distinguished
Service Award from the Society of
Industrial and Office Realtors.
Plaisted is vice chairman of Morton
G. Thalheimer Inc.

SAL

Lacey E. Putney
See 50.

’

58
Malcolm A. Clinger Jr.
retired as executive director of the
Swiss Bank Corp. at age 60. He
bought a ranch in Jackson Hole,
Wyo., where he plans to raise alpaca,
ski, and fly fish.

’

Nb
Charles W. Cole Jr.
is vice president of Alex. Brown
Advisory & Trust. He is also on the
board of regents of the University of

Maryland Systems. He lives in
Owings Mills.

SIL

The Hon. Richard H. Horn
was recently retained for another
10 years as judge of the Court of
Common Pleas of York County, Pa.

’

60
W. Guy McKenzie Jr.
served as chairman of National
Tank Truck Carriers, the tank-truck
industry’s trade association, in 1994-
95. He lives in Tallahassee, Fla.

’

61
John R. Farmer
retired as a general partner from
Goldman Sachs at the end of 1994.
He has continued his affiliation with
the firm as vice chairman of Gold-
man Sachs Europe Ltd. in London,
where he and his family live.

Dr. David W. Haslett

has a new book titled Capitalism with
Morality, which was selected as book
of the year by the North American
Association for Social Philosophy at
the organization’s August meeting
in Maine. Haslett is a member of
the faculty of the University of
Delaware and lives in Newark.

’
62
Dr. Edward A. Brown
is the director for special projects at

the Army Research Laboratory out-
side Washington, D.C.

The Hon. George E. Honts Ill
was elected to the executive com-
mittee of the Judicial Conference of

Virginia representing Region 6. He
recently wrote and edited a book for
the Botetourt County Historical
Society in its “A Touch of History
Series.” The book is titled A Ro// of
Honor and Reminisces by J.K. Simmons,
who was first sergeant of company
“A,” 28th Virginia Volunteer Infan-
try Regiment, from 1859 to 1865.

’

63
Dr. Stephen E. Guild
transplanted his teaching career and
his family to Nairobi, Kenya, for the
1994-95 academic year where he
was visiting lecturer at the U.S.
International University. He taught
courses in business and manage-
ment and worked as a volunteer and
management consultant. He has
now resumed his management con-
sultant practice in Seattle.

Warren B. Hughes Jr.

has expanded his 13-year-old busi-
ness, Rep Finders, which locates,
screens, and attracts independent
manufacturers’ sales rep firms for
U.S. companies. His business will
now perform the same service for
manufacturers worldwide.

Maurice W. Worth Jr.

has been named vice president for
customer service and a charter
member of the newly created exec-
utive council for Delta Air Lines at
its world headquarters in Atlanta.

’

64
Alvin B. Hutzler Il
is president of Cliff Weil Inc., a sun-
glass manufacturer in Richmond.
He was recently elected to the
board of directors of the Sunglass
Association of America.

Dr. Thomas C. Lewis

has been assistant professor of anes-
thesiology at Vanderbilt Hospital
since 1986. He was appointed direc-
tor of clinical anesthesia in 1995.

Cotton Rawls Jr.

has been helping out with “what-
ever is requested” at an elementary
school library in Greenwich, Conn.,
since last spring. He lives in Darien.

James M. Wearn

was appointed by the American Red
Cross to serve as its volunteer state
chairman for Florida.

’

65
Robert C. DeVaney
continues to manage an offshore oil
drilling rig in the Arabian Sea. He
lives in Bombay, India, with his
wife, Sita, and their three daughters.

William L. Price
has joined Gulf Investment
Management in Houston as a share-

   
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

holder and managing Se
firm manages stock and bond rp
folios for domestic and in
institutional and individual

James M. Slay Jr.
retired from law practice in 19¢
return to teaching. He taught a
grade government and 11th grac
U.S. history at Randolph-M
Academy for two years before be
coming assistant director of adm

sions at Hargrave Military Acade
in Chatham, Va. He and his wife
Martha, live in Tight Squeeze.

Royal (Duke) Terrell Jr.
retired as branch manager and iy
vice president of Chubb Ins
He resides in Birmingham and
private consultant for a landscap,
architecture corporation,

’
66

Edward H. Bradbury
is senior vice president of Wheay
First Securities/Butcher & Sing
Los Angeles. His daughter,
a freshman at Johns Hopkins. F
lives in Huntington Beach,

Bruce W. Rider
became a grandfather this past.
with the birth of his son’s daug
He lives in Grapevine, Texas.

O6L:

Kent S. Wilson
recently joined forces with Hal
Clair 73L to form St. Clair & —
Wilson, a law firm with offices
Lexington and Covington, Va. —

’
68

Robert B. Carter 4
received a 1995 Gerald Howard
Read International Seminar Sch
ship from Phi Delta Kappa, a f
sional education fraternity. He
in Winchester, Va., and is servin
his third term as chairman of th
Valley Instructional Leaders.

Christopher B. Chandor
just completed a second shop
center in Suburban Philadelph
with his son, Chris Jr.

Steven R. Saunders
of Alexandria, Va., has been
to the international council of t
American Management Associ
His 14-year-old trade consultir
business, Saunders & Co., spe
izes in Pacific basin economic —
issues. Saunders is an inte
business lecturer at the Georg
University School of Business

Geoffrey L. Stone
of Richmond serves as admini
of resident services for West
ister-Canterbury House, a 650:
member retirement facility.

—

68L
The Hon. George E. Honts Ill
Gee '62.

6Y

Neil S. Kessler

has been appointed to the board

of directors of the Metropolitan
Business Foundation in Richmond.
A commercial real estate attorney,
Kessler is a partner with Mays &
Valentine, which he joined in 1986.

Robert A. Moselle

served for 10 years as president of
the San Francisco Law School
Alumni Association, but recently
stepped aside to concentrate on the
school’s continuing legal education
program. An entertainment law
attorney, he was pivotal in arranging
the 1995 U.S. tour of Procol Harum,
the legendary English rock band.

Dr. Michael C. Stevens

lives with his family in Salt Lake
City, where he is associate clinical
director of Valley Mental Health
and manages to maintain a part-time
private practice specializing in psy-
chopharmacology.

70

Stuart C. Fauber

is senior vice president and regional
manager of the trust and investment
management group of Crestar Bank.
He is also an active captain in the
Naval Reserve. Fauber serves as
chairman of the board, Westmin-
ister-Canterbury of Lynchburg. He
and his wife, Beth, are building a
home at the foot of the Blue Ridge
Mountains near Lynchburg.

Dr. Frank E. Fisher

is working towards a doctorate in
electrical engineering at the Univer-
sity of Texas-San Antonio in its
M.S./Ph.D program. He is also an
active duty reservist as an Air Force
medical officer. Fisher hopes that
one of these days he will be back in
the medical-device industry.

Clinton B. Palmer III

iS assistant cameraman on the sit-
coms “Frasier” and “Coach.” He
lives near the foothills of the San
Gabriel Mountains in Pasadena,
Calif., wich his wife, Patty, and their
two children.

Michael S. Weinstein

Was appointed to the faculty of the
Hawaii College of Traditional
Oriental Medicine in Maui. He
Commutes several times a year to
teach from Santa Monica, Calif.,
Where he maintains a private prac-

"ice of acupuncture and Oriental
Medicine.

71

R. Timothy Wright

directs the marketing and sales
training organization for NYNEX,
the regional telephone company in
the northeast. He recently initiated
Tim Wright & Associates, a consult-
ing and communications service that
teams with businesses and profes-
sional associations to “create success
through change.” He lives in Stam-
ford, Conn., with his wife, Marcia,
and stepsons Michael and Stefan.

FT

James M. Slay Jr.
See ’65.

Te

Daniel Armstrong

won an “Oscar of Invention,” one of
Research and Development Magazine's
1995 R&D 100 Awards which recog-
nize inventions that the editors
claim “have made the world a better
place to live.” Armstrong’s invention,
the chirobiotic column, removes un-
wanted side effects from medicine
(such as Ibuprofen), food additives,
and pesticides. He is a scientist at
the University of Missouri at Rolla.

Dr. Frederick H. Sands

is building an “environmentally
friendly” home powered by photo-
voltaics with his brother, David, in
Haiku, Hawaii.

’
43

John S. Runge

is vice president of finance and

administration for Hunt Refining
Co. in Tuscaloosa, Ala.

‘TIL

Harold K. St. Clair
See Kent Wilson *66L.

’
/4
The Rev. Jack E. Altman III
is “breaking wrists, rotator cuffs, and
the laws of physics” as his 25-year-
old mind hasn’t caught up with his
43-year-old body. “Doing chartering
and marine assistance towing was
exciting as we towed in disabled
boats during a fishing tournament
that coincided with the 25-foot seas
of Hurricane Felix. It’s almost as
nerve-wracking as driving back from
Sweet Briar at 2 a.m. in the fog!”

Paul G. Cavaliere Jr.

is chairman of the middle-level
board of control for the Connecticut
Association of Schools and principal
of the middle school of Plainville,
which received the Outstanding
School Award last year. He lives
with his wife, Nancy, and their
daughter in Kensington.

C. Newport's
New Prez

“I have not been this excited
since I was a 29-year old fresh-
man congressman in the House
of Representatives back in
1977,” exclaims Paul S. Trible
Jr. °71L. On Dec. 4, the former
U.S. Congressman (1977-1983)
and Senator (1983-1989) from
Virginia was tapped to be the
fifth president of 5,000-student Christopher Newport University in
Newport News. Founded in 1961 by the College of William and
Mary—it has since become independent—CNU offers a comprehen-
sive liberal arts program that includes more than 50 undergraduate
and graduate degrees, concentrations, and specialty programs. “I want
to establish Christopher Newport as a university of choice for the
Commonwealth,” Trible says. “I want to tell more people the good
story that we have here.” In accepting the position, he acknowledged
the influence Washington and Lee had on him and indicated the
course he’ll steer for CNU’s future: “I experienced great teaching and
learned the importance of liberal learning...And I believe the liberal
arts tradition should remain the foundation on which we build.”
Trible’s return to public service after seven years in the private sector
fufills a heartfelt desire to “transform peoples’ lives” at Christopher
Newport. “There is no more noble and necessary enterprise than
education and teaching,” he adds. “I can’t wait to start.”

Serving God
And lennis

A recent afternoon of tennis
between Thom Hook °49 and
Lawrence Galloway °43 volleyed
back and forth between sports
and religion—sometimes with-
out warning. In retirement,
Galloway “is a world-class pho-
tographer of nature and religious
subjects,” Hook wrote W@L
recently. “Larry spent four days with Mother Teresa in Calcutta...
On a second peace mission to China, he was held hostage for three
days. For someone not wearing the cloth, it is no secret that he is well
connected with Higher Authority.”

After splitting two long sets at the Baltimore Country Club, the
pair walked to their cars parked near the courts, and Galloway pointed
to the vanity tag on his vehicle—JMJ HT. “Know what the initials
stand for?” he asked. Hook shook his head. “Jesus, Mary, and Joseph.
The other?” Hook thought for a moment, then answered correctly:
“Holy Trinity.” Then he noticed that Galloway’s white tennis shirt
bore the blue inch-high initials “JC,” framed by a diamond shape.

Hook pointed at the shirt and asked, “Isn’t that going a bit far?”
And Galloway just smiled: The initials stood for “Jimmy Connors.”

 

Rosemary and Paul Trible’71L.

 

 

Net theologians: Galloway and Hook.

37

Bank of Lomorrow

If James S. (Chip) Mahan III ’73 has his way, the expression
“bankers’ hours” will soon take on a whole new meaning. Mahan, who
is CEO of Cardinal Bancshares Inc., is also chief executive of Security
First Network Bank, which opened its doors last October and offers
no-fee checking 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Security First can
afford to do this because, well, it doesn’t
exist...at least not in a bricks-and-mortar
sense. Security First, in fact, has no doors to
open—it’s the first bank to exist entirely
online. “Anyone with a computer and a
modem is our potential customer,” says the
Lexington (Ky.) cyberbanker. “It’s a direct
link between the bank and its customers.”

Mahan’s high-tech idea was hatched dur-
ing some old-fashioned low-tech networking.
At family gatherings, he listened to the exal-
tations of the Internet from his brother-in-
law, Michael McChesney, head of an Atlanta-
based computer software company, Five
Paces Inc., that develops the security architecture that banks and
other companies need to do business on the Internet. Finally,
McChesney convinced him that he had developed the banking appli-
cation and security technology for online banking. Mahan decided, in
his words, to “go for it,” and Security First was born—operating on
Five Paces’ Virtual Bank Manager software.

Security is the operative word here and the true key to online bank-
ing. Five Paces has cross-licensing deals with another of McChesney’s
software companies which has developed secure operating systems for
the Department of Defense along with networking products that
meet not only government and commercial security requirements but
recently withstood the scrutiny of the Georgia Tech Research Institute.

Perhaps owing to the Defense connection—and the fact that a
roomful of Yellow Jacket hackers couldn’t break through the soft-
ware’s protective “firewalls”—Security First was approved by the
Office of Thrift Supervision and the FDIC. Since its online debut last
fall, Mahan estimates that more than 1.5 million visits have been paid
to his virtual branch. Nearly 1,800 accounts have opened so far, with
another 30 to 40 coming in daily. That’s far better than the typical
neighborhood branch, he says, and at a fraction of the start-up cost.

These days, Mahan is traveling almost nonstop, spreading the
word about the VBM software. While other banks play catch-up to the
Internet revolution, he’s developing new services such as Future Bank,
which will enable a customer to process an entire balance sheet inter-
actively. “It was just luck, I guess, that we were the first to go online,”
Mahan says. “I don’t know when it'll be or how long it'll take, but I
believe the world’s heading our way.” —By William Cocke ’82

 

Mahan: Cyberbanker.

rT
> . a | ie
2K Nh
tal Ty Say ae)

405 «=e~=w Service »<— Finance &

/
hon

pT eae

*

age
information

; e ens  , p

Customers
=

\ ;

a
a NG

-

ee

 

Security First’s friendly Internet bank lobby: <http://www.sfnb.com>.

 

Averill C. Harkey

is a partner with Harkey Lambeth
law firm in Charlotte. He is also
president of Morehead Properties
and on the boards of Park Meridian
Bank and the Sharon Towers retire-
ment home as well as an elder of
Myers Park Presbyterian Church.

Richard H. Metcalf

is editor of New Mexico Business
Weekly, a statewide tabloid newspa-
per based in Albuquerque.

Gordon F. Saunders

was elected Commonwealth’s
Attorney for Lexington and the sur-
rounding Rockbridge County. He
unseated incumbent Eric Sisler 66,
*69L, who had held the position for
a total of 15 years.

Eric D. White

lives in Richmond and enjoys his
cabin in Rockbridge Country. He
practices law and finds time to teach
Sunday School, coach basketball,
and “play the air guitar.” He and his
wife, Vicki, have two sons.

John M. Zamoiski

is president of Promotion Develop-
ment Group Inc., which was recent-
ly cited by Fortune magazine as one
of 25 “Cool Companies” in America.
He lives in Huntington, N.Y.

’
hs

Robert C. Floyd

works for Unisys in Atlanta and lives

in Tucker, Ga., with his wife, Betsy,

and their two children.

76

John L. Gray Jr.

is a partner and senior vice president
of RTM Restaurant Group, which
operates 530 restaurants in the
southeast. He lives in Atlanta.

Andrew Hemm

is manager of the Shanghai branch
of the Standard Charter Bank, one
of the largest banks in Shanghai.

Hugh J. Sisson

recently opened a new brewery in
the Baltimore area, Clipper City
Brewing Co.

FE

Jeffrey H. Barr

is vice president of Consolidated
Metco in Portland, Ore., and is a
ranchhand for the many animals
acquired by his wife, Jeanne, and
their two boys. The family lives in
Vancouver, Wash.

Stuart W. Coco

is senior vice president and director
of research of Aim Management. He
lives in Houston and has three chil-
dren.

an

William J. Cople II]

has been re-elected general Counse|]
of the National Capital Area Council
of the Boy Scouts of America. He Mm
a partner in the law firm of Spri

& Hollingsworth in Washington
D.C., and resides in Alexandria, Va,
with his wife and two daughters.

Maj. Thomas C. Greenwood

is executive officer for the 2nd
Marines and assumed command of
his first battalion in January. He
lives with his wife, Bettye, and their
three children at Camp Lejeune,
N.C.

Lt. Col. Angelo B. Santella
is professor of military science at
Valley Forge Military College in
Wayne, Pa.

Frank K. Turner Jr.

has been promoted to senior vice
president of the corporate banking
department of Mercantile Safe
Deposit & Trust Co. in Baltimore,
where he lives with his wife,
Frances, and their two children.

’
78
J. Edward Graham Jr.
is in the dissertation phase of his fel-
lowship at the University of South
Carolina. He was a visiting professor
teaching a course in international
finance at:W&L last spring. His
wife, an artist, lives with their chil-
dren in Jacksonville, Fla., while he
commutes twice a month from his
doctoral pursuits in Columbia.

Lloyd R. Sams

lives with his wife, Jane, and their
two sons in Charlotte, where he is
managing director for First Union's
communications and media finance

group.

Dr. William R. Schooley

is in private practice as a neurosur-
geon with Neurosurgical Associates
in Nashville, Tenn., where he lives
with his wife, Barbara, and their
daughter, Elizabeth Parker.

James H. Veghte
is living in Bermuda and working for
Mid-Ocean Reinsurance Ltd.

’
SOU

H. Frederick T. Moore

was recently named managing

director and partner of Earle Palmet

Brown/Virginia, an advertising and

public-relations firm in Richmond.

Daniel J. Weeks

is the drummer for Jazzlamic Jihad,
a N.J.-based jazz band with a new
album titled Forbidden Expression.

SOL

Kenneth M. Lyons
is a partner in the Washington

p

(D.C.) law firm of Dickstein,
Shapiro & Morin, specializing in
commercial litigation. He lives with
his wife, Madonna, and his two chil-
dren in Great Falls, Va.

BLL

Gene A. Marsh

is a full professor at the University
of Alabama School of Law. His wife
and W&L classmate, Jenelle, is the
assistant dean of the law school and
directs the writing program there.

L. Banks Wannamaker II

of Mt. Pleasant, S.C., climbed
Chimborazo (20,700 ft.) in Ecuador
in June, ran the Kiawah marathon in
December, and was expecting his
third child around Christmas.

62

Thomas W. Burns

is international sales manager for
Lonza Inc., a chemical manufacturer
in Fair Lawn, N.J.

J. Brooks Flippen

received his doctorate from the
University of Maryland and is now a
history professor at Southeastern
Oklahoma State University. He
lives in Durant, Okla., with his wife,
Celiste, and their two daughters.

Dr. Scott T. Howell

finished a fellowship at Stanford in
December involving computer mod-
eling of drugs and their effects. He

_ has now joined the department of
anesthesiology at Duke University.

John E. Monroe

now works in corporate develop-
ment for Thera Tx Inc., a health-
care company based in Atlanta.

621,

Thomas G. Baker Jr.

has been reelected to a fourth term
in the Virginia House of Delegates.
He is the attorney for the town of
Dublin, where he also has his own
legal practice and lives with his
wife, Jo Ann, and their son.

’
53
Dr. William E. Alison Jr.

has begun a private plastic surgery
Practice in Huntsville, Ala.

Steven A. Daub

Was recently promoted to marketing
fesearch manager responsible for all
child cereal brands at General Mills.
He lives in Minneapolis with his
Wife, Joye, and son, Brian.

Thomas C. Gentner Jr.

lives in Catonsville, Md., with his
Wife, Mary, and two children. He
Sells commercial real estate in the

Baltimore-Washington area for the
Carey Winston Co.

Philip W. Murray

received the William Michael
Shermet Award for academic excel-
lence, competitive responsible spirit
and service, at the Darden Graduate
School of Business Administration at
the University of Virginia. He is in
his second and final year of the
MBA program in Charlottesville.

Gilles C. Wheeler

is a screenwriter living in Venice
Beach, Calif. He recently finished
writing an animated feature for Fox.

’
S4

Lance C. Cawley

was promoted to chief financial offi-

cer of GO Communications in Alex-

andria, Va. He lives in Reisterstown,

Md.

Powell M. Leitch Ill
was elected principal in the Roanoke
firm of Woods, Rogers & Hazlegrove.

Tori C.A. Richardson
completed his doctorate in Chinese
literature in May 1994 at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin at Madison and
hopes to teach at the college level.
He is currently a student advisor at
the University of Wisconsin.

Russell R. Rosler

lives in Bexley, Ohio, with his wife,
Danielle, and their two children. He
is a partner in the Columbus law
firm of Vorys, Sater, Seymour &
Pease, where he concentrates in
business organization and finance.

Donald B. Smith

has been taking classes and working
in the physical therapy clinic of a
community hospital in San Antonio.
He hopes to enter a three-year phys-
ical therapy study program soon.

John E. (Jet) Taylor Ill

has been promoted to eastern
regional sales manager for Knight-
Ridder Financial, a provider of com-
puterized financial information to
investment professionals. He works
in Manhattan and lives in Westfield,
N.J., with his wife, Susan, and their
two children.

’
85

Thomas C. Imeson IIl

resides in Jesup, Ga., with his wife,

Penny, and their two sons, Adam

(whom he classifies as W&L class of

2015) and William (W&L °16).

J. Robert Spatig

of Greensboro, N.C., was named
senior assistant director of admission
at Guilford College. He was former-
ly director of admission at Wyoming
Seminary in Kingston, Pa.

Capt. Mark W. Weaver

is branch manager for Appleby
Systems, a home improvement busi-
ness in York, Pa., where he lives
with his wife, Andrea.

OSL

W. Jay Swiatek

is an associate counsel practicing
general corporate law with Allendale
Insurance of Johnston, R.I. He lives
in Mansfield, Mass., with his wife,
Patti, and “two charming, if contuma-
cious” daughters, Molli and Virginia.

’
SO

Michael A.G. Berg

lives in Bloomsburg, Pa., with his

wife and is an assistant professor of
chemistry at Bloomsburg University.

Parker B. Plaisted

moved to Rochester, N.Y., to be
director of the imaging division with
RIT Research Corp., which engages
in contract research and promotes
technology transfer from RIT to
industry.

SOL

Lee Mason Baker

lives in Saigon with her husband,
Chip, where she is an attorney with
the London law firm of Lucy Wayne
Associates Ltd. and reports that U.S.
businesses are “rushing in” to the
Vietnamese corporate world.

’
S/

Cooper C. Crawford

recently moved to Rome, Ga.,

where he lives with his wife, Madge,

and their son. Crawford is vice presi-

dent in charge of commercial loans

with Citizens First Bank.

Kevin W. Lederer

recently sold his ownership in his
company, Perspective Technology,
and is attending Harvard Business
School. He lives with his wife and
their two children in Belmont, Mass.

Russell R. Rosler

is a partner in the Columbus (Ohio)
firm of Vorys, Sater, Seymour and
Pease, practicing corporate and
finance law. He lives in Bexley with
his wife, Dani, and two children,
Eleanor, 4, and William, 2.

Robert Z. Slappey

has been promoted to senior manag-
er in the Orlando (Fla.) office of
KPMG Peat Marwick.

Paul J. Smith
is adjunct fellow with Pacific
Forum/CSIS in Honolulu, Hawaii.

O7L

Powell M. Leitch 111
See ’84.

’
SS

Richard T. Clawson

has been promoted to manager of

the Atlanta office of Siddell, Matus

& Coughter Inc., a public relations

firm. His wife, Betsy Cranford ’89,

is living in Baltimore and pursuing

her doctorate in psychology at Johns

Hopkins.

Dr. Craig M. Keanna

is a third-year resident in pediatrics
at the Children’s Hospital of Yale in
New Haven, Conn.

C. Russell H. Shearer

was recently promoted to lead envi-
ronmental counsel for the U.S.
Department of Energy at the
Savannah River Site. He lives in
Aiken, S.C., and is also teaching
environmental law as a lecturer in
pollution and pollution control at
the University of South Carolina.

David M. Vaughan

has been living in Japan for more
than four years. He is now teaching
English and studying Japanese.

SSL

Paul T. Colella

was recently named partner of
Giordano, Halleran & Ciesla in
Lincroft, N.J., and will continue to
practice in the firm’s corporate and
securities department. He lives in
Manalapan.

’
SY

M. Lucille Anderson

practices litigation with the firm of

Davis & Shank in Houston with fel-

low law alumni Matt Guilfoyle ’83L

and Jill F. Panagos ’85L.

Amy C. Balfour

is an associate with the law offices
of J. Ridgely Porter III in Ports-
mouth, Va. She lives in Norfolk.

Matthew G. Bevin

is a vice president of Putnam
Investments in Boston and is work-
ing as an account manager for
Putnam Institutional Management.
He works primarily with benefit
and retirement plans.

Matthew F. Brady

is a commercial officer at the
American Consulate General in
Hong Kong.

Marie Buttarazzi Coukos
was named the assistant general
counsel for the New England
Patriots football club, the New
England Revolution professional

soccer team, and related entities.
She lives in Watertown, Mass., with
her husband, Steve.

Clifford L. Deal Ill

will start medical school at Medical
College of Virginia this August. He
and his wife, Tracy, have purchased
a home in Richmond.

Edward J. Gallagher Jr.
recently relocated to Dublin,
Ireland, following a three-year stint
in San Francisco. He trades cross-
rate currency futures options and is
president of Laguna Capital Man-
agement Ltd., a BVI incorporated
commodity pool operator.

Donald J. Hatfield

is writing his dissertation with fund-
ing from the East Asian Studies
Center at the University of Chicago
and the Chiang Ching-Kuo Founda-
tion for Taiwanese Studies.

Joseph C. Kavanagh

received an MBA in finance from
the Leonard N. Stern School of
Business at New York University.
He is now an associate in the global
M&A group of CIBC Wood-Gundy
in New York City.

Deborah Hattes Kulyukin

is pursuing her master’s in library
science at Rosary College in
Chicago.

Mark A. Robertson

was called to serve as an assistant
pastor at New Life Community
Church in Vancouver, British
Columbia, which is part of the
Reformed Church in America.

SIL

Steven P. Hammond

has joined the law firm of Chandler,
Franklin & O’ Bryan in Charlottes-
ville, Va.

’

90
John E. Bagwell Ill
graduated from the Denver College
of Law, where he served on the
Denver University Law Review and
was valedictorian of his class. He
also received a master’s of interna-
tional management from the
University of Denver Graduate
School of Business. He joined the

Denver office of the law firm of
Arnold & Porter in September.

Susan E. Bienert

graduated from the University of
Virginia School of Medicine last
June. She is currently a resident in
the department of family medicine
at UVa.

Joelle J. Dillard

is acommercial litigation attorney
with the firm of Allen, Brinton &
Simmons in Jacksonville, Fla.

Jonah L. Glick

began a master’s degree program in
East Asian studies at the University
of Pennsylvania last September.

Alice L. Harrell

has enrolled in Columbia Biblical
Seminary and Graduate School of
Missions in Columbia, S.C., to
attain the training to minister to
overseas peoples without a church.
She continues to work for Barnes &
Noble Booksellers in Columbia.

Evan J. Kline

is an attorney with Goldman,
Katzman & Shipman in Harrisburg,
Pa., where he practices in the areas
of civil litigation and labor law.

Robert E. Martin

graduated from the Medical College
of Virginia in May and is now doing
his residency in internal medicine at
the University of Vermont.

Mark T. Milligan

works for InPower Inc., a software
company start-up in Walnut Creek,
Calif., as a senior sales support con-
sultant. He lives in the Federal Hill
section of Baltimore.

Erick H. Rock

received his MBA from Virginia
Tech and is now a second-year law
student at the University of Nebras-
ka and a member of its law review.
He also clerks in the Nebraska
Attorney General’s Office in its
criminal appellate division.

Tina Vandersteel

had just finished renovating her
New York City apartment when J.P.
Morgan decided to transfer her to
Brazil to do local markets fixed in-
come. She enjoyed a Martha’s Vine-
yard vacation last June with class-
mates Hilary Beggs, Susie Bienert,
Nancy Baughan, Eric Hunter, Stacy
Morrison, and Lea Santamaria.

’
9]

Courtney Adams Christensen

lives in Richmond with her husband,

Rob, and their daughter, and prac-
tices law at the Legal Aid Society.

Laura W. Dodge
lives in Hong Kong and works for
Bloomberg, a news service.

Brennon A. Fitzpatrick
works as an investment real estate
broker in Nashville where he lives
with his wife, Liz.

Terance F. Fowler

graduated from the first evening
MBA class at Emory University last
May. Since November, he has seen
many W&L classmates in his
travels as chief financial officer of
the Health Advantage, a division of
Columbia/HCA.

Ann Stewart Fuller

@ James A. Fuller

live in Palm Bay, Fla., where Ann is
national sales manager for Macho
Products Inc., a manufacturer of
protective equipment for martial
arts and law enforcement training,
and Jamie is a technical service
engineer at Harris Publishing
Systems, supporting computer sys-
tems for newspaper publishing.

Gregory J. Golden

will graduate from the University of
Richmond School of Law in May
and plans to clerk for U.S. District
Judge Robert Merighe of the
Eastern District of Virginia.

Stephan N. Kory

has moved back to the States from
Taiwan, where he had lived for four
years following graduation. He is
pursuing a doctorate in East Asian
languages and literatures with hopes
of teaching at the university level.

T. Christopher Locke
lives in Taipei, Taiwan, and works
for a Chinese media company.

Nickolas J. Lorentzatos
graduated from the University of
Houston School of Law last May
and now works for the law firm of
Bracewell & Patterson in Houston.

Tara H. Perkinson
is now the journal clerk of the
Senate of Virginia.

Robert A. Shelton

has returned from London and is an
investment officer for AIM Manage-
ment Group in Houston.

Michael W. Skarda

graduated last May from Texas
Tech Graduate School with a J.D.
and an MBA. He is clerking for a
federal judge in El Paso, Texas, and
will join the Dallas firm of Winsted,
Sechrest & Minick in August.

Carolyn V. Smith

has been named southwest regional
sales manager of Merchandising
Solutions, a merchandising services
organization devoted exclusively to
the microcomputer industry.

John R. Smith Jr.
is in his second year at the Univer-
sity of Richmond School of Law.

Janice Ferman Straske

recently moved back to Tampa, Fla.,
from New York City with her hus-
band, Steve, and their baby, Elly.

E. Janelle Zarecor

completed her MBA from George-
town University and is working as
an assistant product manager for
Revlon in New York City.

’

92
Scott B. Arceneaux
graduated last May from Tulane

  
   
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
  
   
    
  
   
 
  
 
 
  

University Law School, where he
was on the Law Review. He wac_
sworn in as a member of the I,
ana Bar in October and now clerk.
for U.S. District Judge Eldon Fajy
of the Eastern District of Louis:

Evan J. Balmer 4
is in his third year of law schoo} :
Quinnipiac College School of
where he serves as president of ¢h
Sports and Entertainment Law
Society. He works for an entertai,
ment law firm in New York City,

Denise Brainard
graduated from the University ¢ .
Detroit Mercy School of Law and
passed the Michigan bar exam, §
lives in Clinton Township and is
currently campaign manager for ¢
Republican candidate for Macor
County prosecutor.

Douglas B. Brown
is doing research in dermatology
Thomas Jefferson University in
Philadelphia.

Elise B. Darden
received her law degree from th
University of Virginia in Maya
now a member of Mays & Vale
tine’s products liability, persor
injury, tort and insurance practi
group in its Richmond law offic

Jonathan A. Frank
graduated cum /aude from T.C.
Williams School of Law, Unive
of Richmond. He now works fe
firm of Little Parsley & Cluveri
Richmond.

J.P. Hamm
graduated third in his class from
University of Louisville School
Law and is now practicing with
MacKenzie & Peden. in Louis
where he lives with his wife anc
W&L classmate, Carol.

H. Robert Huke
has been named an assistant me
lacrosse coach at Bucknell Univ
sity. He was an assistant coach
Franklin & Marshall College in:
1992-93 and at Rochester Instit
of Technology in 1993-94.

Clayton A. Kennington
is enrolled in the MBA program
the University of Texas at Aust
Graduate School of Business. —

Christopher L. Owen i
now works for Source Services

recruiter for accounting and fit
professionals in Washington,
He lives in McLean, Va.

Jason D. Robertson
is an assistant stockbroker fort
British securities firm, H.G.
‘Taiwan.

92L

James W. Lane Jr.
and his wife, Jessica Martin 7

¥

recently moved from Richmond to
Charleston, W.Va., where Lane

practices law with his brother.

’ 93

Kristen E. Brown

is a third-year law student at
Louisiana State University Law
Center in Baton Rouge.

Michae/ P. Desaulnier
js pursuing an MBA at Fordham
University and lives in Cliffside

Park, N.J.

J. Heath Dixon

is still teaching and coaching debate
at Robert E. Lee High School in
San Antonio, Texas.

W. Todd Fielder

completed his M.S. in mechanical
engineering at Duke and now works
for the Raytheon Co. in Boston.

John E. Hedstrom
is a first-year law student at Mar-
quette University in Milwaukee.

Jeremy D. Meadows

recently went to Benin, West Africa,
where he spent a week of legislative
staff training for the National
Assemblies of Benin, Cote d'Ivoire,
Mali and Niger. He lives in
Annandale, Va., and works for the
Nationa! Conference of State
Legislatures in Washington, D.C.

Kathleen R. Mekjian

studies genetics and molecular biol-
ogy at Emory University and lives in
Atlanta.

Brandon Neblett

is in his third year of teaching at
Gilman and is tackling a new course
in ancient history, in addition to
Latin. He is also applying to study
classics at Oxford for the fall of 1997.

Keith M. Rinn

writes that he is spending his third
consecutive winter in Vail, Colo.,
“snowboarding my brains out.”

Tazewell S. Rowe

isa member of the university of
Michigan’s MBA class of 1997.

93L

Amy C. Balfour
See ’89.

Rose Marie Downs

IS an associate with the law firm of
Shaheen & Shaheen in Henrico
County, Va.

Dawn Alee Prsirembel
'S a staff attorney for the S.C. Court
of Appeals in Columbia.

04
William D. Aiken

IS the financial analyst for the Great
orth American Cos., a computer

~ —_——e

and office products distributor in
Washington, D.C.

Molly B. Apter

moved to Alexandria, Va., in
September and is working in the
fund development division of the

United Cerebral Palsy Association in
Washington, D.C.

Paul L. Bordelon

is on assignment in Guam with
Andersen Consulting for several
months.

Laurence B. Brown
is an analyst for Booz-Allen &
Hamilton in Alexandria, Va.

Tara L. Burns

recently received her MSC in
European studies from the London
School of Economics and is working
as a clerk for the McCabe & Mack
law firm in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

William B. Chappell Jr.
works in Equity Research at
Interstate Johnson Lane in Atlanta.

A. Brett Cohrs

is working in Atlanta doing inner-
city mission work for the Midtown
Mission Church of God.

Rachel D. Cook

is teaching English in Osaka prefec-
ture with the Japan Exchange and
Teaching program.

Ryan L. Dennard

is in his second year at the Univer-
sity of Texas Law School, where he
is a member of the Law Review. His
wife, Melissa Desai ’94, teaches
third grade in Austin.

James R. Gilreath Jr.

is in his second year of law school at
the University of South Carolina in
Columbia, where he serves on the
Honor Council as well as the S.C.
Environmental Law Journal.

Keith E. Grant

remains in Lexington, where he is
working on a documentary history of
W&L athletics. He is also working
with Walt Michaels ’51 on his sports
biography.

William S. Grant

is pursuing a joint J.D./M.A. degree
at Washington University in St.
Louis, studying law and East Asian
studies with an emphasis on Chinese
law. He is active in the student gov-
ernment and a founding member of
the East Asian Law Society.

Julie D. Guerin

is now a first-year medical student
at Louisiana State University in
New Orleans after working as a
chapter advisor to Chi Omega.

M. Elise Hagensen

is in her second year of work for the
Japan Exchange and Teaching pro-
gram on the island of Tanegashima,
off the southern coast of Kyushu.

Louis E. (Chip) Hathaway IV
works at Corning Hazleton in
Washington, D.C., as a study techni-
cian doing research for pharmaceuti-
cal companies.

Jill M. Jacques

is pursuing her MBA at Wake Forest
University and living in Winston-
Salem, N.C.

Heather M. Leonard

is currently self-employed and
recently moved from Pennsylvania
to southern California. She hopes to
pursue an MFA in technical theater
next fall.

Alison G. Lewis
works at the National Rehabilitation
Hospital in Washington, D.C.

Christopher M. Main

works as an analyst for Columbine
Systems Inc. in Golden, Colo. He
lives in Denver with his dog,
Mickey, and likes the change of
scenery after five years in Lexington.

Kari K. May

is pursuing a master’s in English at
Appalachian State University in
Boone, N.C. She plans to get a mas-
ter’s in library science and become a
librarian.

2nd Lt. Matthew D. McCollum
is with the Army in Korea and
appreciates any and all mail he gets.
He can be reached by writing: HHC
CO 1-72 AR, Unit #15077, APO AP
96224-033 8.

Lev M. (Leo) Morozov

moved to Vienna, Austria, after a
year in New York City to work as a
Russia portfolio manager for a large
bank named Creditanstelt.

Erin M. Nelson

works at the city hall in Yukuhashi
City, Fukuoka, Japan, as the coordi-
nator for international relations on
the JET program. She is working
hard to plan a combined concert
with the Yukuhashi City Band (for
whom Nelson plays flute) and the
W&L Wind Ensemble on its spring
tour in April.

Christopher P. O’Hagan
is a first-year law student at George
Mason University.

J. Cheairs Porter

works as a health policy analyst for
the Advisory Board, a Washington
(D.C.) consulting firm.

John B. Richert
holds a temporary position in the
Los Angeles office of NationsBank.

Jennifer A. Roscoe

is in her second year of law school at
Vanderbilt. She will return to
Birmingham to clerk this summer.

B. Curtis Smith Jr.
works for American Express Finan-

cial Advisors in Tysons Corner, Va.,
assisting clients with developing
their investment portfolios.

T. Patrick Smith

received his MBA from the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame last spring and is
a first-year law student at W&L.

Sarah N. Smith

works in Wilmington, Del., as a
youth rehabilitation treatment spe-
cialist with juvenile delinquents
ages 13-18.

Kathleen A. Stimeling

works in the accounting department
of San Diego law firm Klinedinst,
Fliehman, McKillop & Jones. She
also serves as president of the San
Diego alumni chapter.

Leigh W. Strickler

is working towards her master’s in
chemical engineering at the
University of Virginia.

J. MacGregor Tisdale
works for Trust Co. Bank in Atlanta.

David Wilmington

is now a first-year law student at
Wake Forest School of Law, having
spent a busy year in Houston direct-
ing a large high school jazz band and
working at a Mexican restaurant as
well as working as a test technician
at Compaq.

Amy L. Yarcich

manages Dodgeville Revitalization,
a nonprofit community organization
in Wisconsin. She enjoys her work
in historic preservation, economic
development, promotion, tourism,
and event planning.

941,

Mary Ciccone

has recently been hired by National
Consumer Insurance Co. to work in
its litigation department. She lives
in Somerset, N.J., with her husband,
Joseph °93L.

Julie E. Hawkins

has been named an associate in the
Washington (D.C.) office of Baker
& Hostetler. She clerked for the
Hon. H. Henry Widener Jr., U.S.
Court of Appeals after graduation.

Susan E.F. Henderson

has established her own office
for the general practice of law in
Virginia and West Virginia in
Bluefield, W.Va.

J.D. Lowry

has been promoted to assistant edi-
tor of the Journal of College Science
Teaching, published by the National
Science Teachers Association.

’
95

Ryan T. Boone

is in medical school at Louisiana

41

Private Lessons

After he graduated from Washington and Lee with honors in
economics last May, Roland Chase ’95 had everything going for
him. He’d started a two-year assignment as a staff economist with
Ernst & Young in Washington, D.C. His W&L sweetheart,
Maureen Levey ’93, was working nearby. All in all, life was good.

And then he got his draft notice.

It didn’t come as a complete surprise. Chase grew up in Frank-
furt, Germany, with his German-born mother and American-born
father. Military duty is still a
requirement for German men
18 and over, but Chase de-
layed his commitment because
of educational obligations. “I

 

knew they were going to draft
me at some time,” he says, but
he’d hoped that time would
wait until the summer of °97.
“I'd already written them say-
ing I have a job.”

The draft board wasn’t
interested. “My parents tried
to go to court in Germany and
have them postpone the whole

 

Man in uniform: Roland Chase ’95.

thing,” he says—but all of this
was to no avail. Chase reported
for 10 months of service in the German army Oct. 3.

“I could not believe what was happening to me,” he recalls.
“For the first month I was in complete denial.” After two days at
home, Chase reported for three months of boot camp in a town
located an hour and a half from his parents’ home in Frankfurt.
“It’s pretty much how you see it in the movies”—snow fatigues,
wilderness journeys, a thousand pushups a day. And once he got
used to it, it wasn’t so bad. “We’re not one of the elite troops,” he
says, “so they didn’t challenge us as much physically.” Or as he
explained it to Levey: “I’ve been through swimming with
Remillard and pledgeship with PiKa. 7/is is cake.”

Following a trip Stateside over the holidays, Private Chase
reported back to duty in January as a telecommunications special-
ist with a unit responsible for all communications between
German soldiers in Bosnia and the federal government back home.
He’s stationed in the small—“really small”—town of Kastellaun.
“There’s not a lot going on,” says Chase, who has found a certain
camaraderie (“almost as good as a W&L fraternity”) sharing close
quarters with a bunch of students-turned-professionals-turned-
soldiers not unlike himself. “It’s been a chafe on everyone,” he
sighs. “Some of these guys won’t get their jobs back.”

Chase counts himself among the more fortunate. His service
will be over with by the end of July, and his boss at Ernst &
Young has indicated that his job back in Washington will be wait-
ing. And in the meantime, Levey is living with Chase’s family in
Frankfurt while working for the USO in Germany.

All things considered, though, Chase will be happy to have his
service behind him: “It’s been hanging over my head for the last
four years,” he admits. While that doesn’t get his brother Torsten,
a junior at Washington and Lee, off the hook, it may have given
him ideas. Once he completes his studies at W&L, he plans on
going straight to grad school.

State University at Shreveport, as is
classmate Stephen Cox.

Lauren E. Brillante

works for John Hancock and lives in
Arlington, Va., along with classmate
Megan Talbott.

G. Matthew Brock

is in his first year of dental school at
the University of Tennessee-
Memphis.

Kelly L. Brotzman
is on a Fulbright Scholarship and
studying in Heidelberg, Germany.

Elise C. Brown
works for Bowles Hollowell and
lives in Charlotte.

V. Frost Bush

lives in Arlington, Va., and works for
the National Gaming Association, a
lobbying firm that represents casinos.

Eva Cid
lives in Baltimore and works for the
Provident Bank of Maryland.

Patricia A. Coughlin

works for CNN in Atlanta along
with classmates Cathy Gartin and
LaKeisha Townes.

Alex M. Cross

works for First Chicago and studies
with its First Scholars program,
which combines working with a
portfolio manager in the private
banking and trust department and
working toward an MBA at North-
western University’s Kellogg School
of Business. Classmate Beth Provan-
zana is in the same program.

Susan G. Deutsch

works as a staff accountant for
Arthur Andersen in Washington,
D.C., along with classmates Trey
Block, Doug Burns, Jeff Laborde,
Drew Hammond, and Duane Van
Arsdale.

Kristina M. Dodds
works for Marriott in Atlanta along
with classmate Sean Johnson.

Jeremy G. Enslein

is attending Nova Southeastern
College of Osteopathic Medicine in
North Miami Beach, Fla.

Charles M. Ferguson

is working for Royal Cup Coffee and
living in Austin, Texas, with class-
mate Talmadge Trammell.

Assia P. Georgieva

works for the investment banking
firm of James B. Wolfensohn Inc. in
New York City alongside classmate
Reuben Munger.

G. Alan Hamrick

is in law school at the University of
West Virginia.

Phillip A. Harries

is attending graduate school in biol-

ogy at the University of North
Carolina at Charlotte.

Jennifer M. Hickes

works in the anthropology depart.
ment of the Smithsonian’s Museum
of Natural History in Washin

D.C. “a

R. Hayne Hodges II]

works for Congressman Floyd
Spencer in his Washington (D.C.)
office and works toward his pilot’s
license in his spare time.

Elizabeth W. Holleman

works for the National Wildlife
Museum in Jackson Hole, Wyo., and
also works part time waiting tables,
She aspires to be a ski instructor.

N. Amanda Irons

started in Provo, Utah, with a chil-
dren’s theater troupe and tours the
country entertaining children of al]
ages with numerous weekly produc-
tions of The Prince and the Pauper.

J. Michael Jones

will teach English in Costa Rica
starting in February, but is currently
waiting tables in Pensacola, Fla,

Jennifer K. Lynch
is pursuing a graduate degree in
engineering at Rutgers University,

Vanessa J. MacKinlay
is in an English-teaching graduate
program at Columbia University.

Megan E. McCloskey
is teaching English in Karatsu-Shi,
Saga-Ken, Japan, for a year.

Brian McClung

is a graduate student in broadcasting
at the Brown Institute in Minnea-
polis, where he also serves as Senate
president.

L. Erin McKinney

is running her own business from
her home in Anderson, S.C. She
owns and freelances a desktop pub-
lishing service to area businesses.

Melissa A. McNaull

is a first-year student at Eastern
Virginia Medical School in Norfolk
where she also serves on the honor
council, which governs a system
modeled after W&L’s.

J. Trevor Norris

of Mc. Pleasant, S.C., has been see-
ing as many Phish concerts as he
and his Hot Carl bandmates—Joe
Austin "95 and Rusty Bishop "94—
can afford. The three musicians
hold down several day jobs as well.

Raymond L. Peeler :
is a first-year law student at Georg!
State University Law School.

Lloyd C. Peeples Ill

is a first-year student at the Cumbert-
land School of Law at Samford
University in Birmingham along
with classmate Robin Williamson.

Carol J. Pierce i
is an administrative assistant in the

ae

a

creative services department of the
Advisory Board, a Washington
(D.C.) consulting firm.

Adam S. Plotkin

is studying philosophy at St. John’s
College Graduate Institute and liv-
ing in Annapolis.

Robert H. Powell lV

is working for Andersen Consulting
in its Washington (D.C.) office as a
staff consultant. He lives in Arling-

ron, Va.

Leslie E. Ratz

lives in Alexandria and is a profes-
sional development coordinator at
the Employee Relocation Council in
Washington D.C.

Ashley B. Rowe

is a law clerk to Judge Herbert C.
Gill Jr. at the Chesterfield Circuit
Court. She lives in Richmond.

Mary R. (Mollie) Saunders

is an administrative assistant for
Behavior Management Consultants
in Nashville, Tenn., where she lives
with classmate Caroline Amason.

Christopher 8. Scheve

works in Speaker of the House
Newt Gingrich’s office for John
McCallum "92 in Washington and
sees classmates Andy Wright and
Matt Ehret on a regular basis.

Jane A. Shows
is a medical student at Texas Tech
and is living in Lubbock.

David W. Silvester
lives in Lake Forest, IIl., and works
for Alpart Trading Co. in Chicago.

Brett R. Steen

works as a program coordinator for
Market Growth Resources Inc. in
Wilton, Conn.

Michael A. Sullivan

is an applications specialist at Best
Programs Inc. in Reston, Va. He
lives in Sterling.

LaKeisha S. Townes
is a video journalist at CNN in
Atlanta.

Jonathan J. Van Dyke

is studying art at the University of
Glasgow and the Glasgow School of
Art in Scotland on a Rotary Club
scholarship.

Stephen A. Wakefield Jr.
'S Working in Austin, Texas, for the
State controller’s office.

Andrew M. Wright

has been working in Vice President
Al Gore’s office since last April and
lives in Washington, D.C., with
Classmate Matt Ehret.

Paul E. Wright
Works for Bear, Stearns & Co. and
lives in New York City.

95L

M. Lucille Anderson
See '89.

J. Alexander Boone

is an associate in the Roanoke law
firm of Parvin, Wilson & Barnett
and practices construction law and
commercial litigation.

George H. Bowles

works for Mays & Valentine’s busi-
ness and commercial litigation sec-
tion in its Norfolk (Va.) office.

David C. Head
is an attorney with Waller Lansden
Dortch & Davis in Nashville.

Edward B. Lumpkin

is an associate with the Richmond
law firm of Christian, Barton, Epps,
Brent & Chappell.

Marriages

Robert H. Moore Jr. °44

to Judith D. Peters, on July 29,
1995, in Bluefield, Va. The couple
lives in Arlington.

William R. Melton IV ’74

to Louellen Brumgard, on April 8,
1995, in Richmond. The couple
lives in Richmond.

David §. De Jong ’75L

to Tracy Ann Barger, on Sept. 23,
1995, in Charlottesville, Va. Law
classmates Harry Bosen, Frederick
Granade, and Anthony Parrillo were
groomsmen. The groom is a princi-
pal in the Rockville (Md.) law firm
of Stein, Sperling, Bennett, De
Jong, Driscoll, Greenfeig & Metro.
He is also an adjunct professor of
taxation at the American University
in Washington, D.C. His latest
book, published in October, is /.K.
Lasser’s Year-Round Tax Strategies
1996 (MacMillan). The couple lives
in Rockville, Md.

Scott W. Hood ’79

to Karla Bennett, on Dec. 2, 1995.
The couple will continue to live on
Amelia Island, Fla. Hood is the
owner of Gator Bait Golf Balls.

Hugh L. Robinson II ’80 to
Mary Elizabeth C. Smith ’89,
on Nov. 4, 1995, in Richmond.
William H. Matthai Jr., Marc W.
Ottinger, and Arthur P. Caltrider, all
classmates of the groom, were
groomsmen. Catherine M. Broad-
man and Alexa A. Salzman, class-
mates of the bride, were also in the
wedding party. The couple lives in
Baltimore. The groom is a vice pres-
ident of the international banking
group of the First National Bank of
Maryland and the bride is a lease
consultant at AT&T Capital Corp.
in Towson.

Thomas S. Hunter ’82

to Michelle E. Dains, on Nov. 19,
1994, in Austin, Texas. The wed-
ding party included classmates
James M. Hall and James P. Shea, as
well as Robert B. Cave °84, Eric
Detlefs 80, Timothy L. Baird °83,
and Will Deeley °79, ’82L. Hunter is
a name partner in the law firm of
Foster and Hunter in Austin.

Jill Faustini ’85L

to Greg Panagos, on July 7, 1995.
The couple was married by Texas
Supreme Court Justice Greg Abbott.
The couple lives in Houston. The
bride practices commercial litigation
and labor law as a partner with Davis
& Shank, and was reelected to the
Houston Young Lawyers board of
directors.

Karen L. Sivertsen ’85L

to Dr. Anthony Lagunilla, on Sept.
30, 1995, in Paoli, Pa. Classmate
Marie Coukas was a member of the
wedding party. The couple lives in
Nesconset, N.Y.

Dr. Lester 8. Johnson ’86

to Dr. Eveleen Oleinik, on May 20,
1995, in Amesbury, Mass. Johnson
completed his M.D. and Ph.D
studies in molecular cell biology
from the Columbia University
College of Physicians and Surgeons
last May and is now in a resident in
diagnostic radiology at the Columbia-
Presbyterian Medical Center. The
couple lives in Englewood, N.J.

James T. Hamlin IV ’87

to Tina Lomand, on Sept. 10, 1994.
Groomsmen included Bob Phillips
*85, classmates Jeff Marks, John
Kalitka, and Jim New, and Ron
Brown ’89. The couple lives in
Arlington, Va.

Christopher S. Lynch °87

to Mary Margaret Anderson, on
Sept. 9, 1995, in New York City.
The couple lives in New York,
where Lynch is an individual retire-
ment consultant with the College
Retirement Equities Fund of the
Teachers Insurance and Annuity
Association.

Thomas E. Meyers °87

to Britt Anna Biggs, on Sept. 30,
1995, in Elizabeth City, N.C.
Groomsmen included classmate
Henry Greenburg and cousin Aaron
Michalove °98. The couple lives in
Elizabeth City where the groom
works as a commercial banker at
First Union.

Russell W. Whitman III ’87

to JoAnn Susan Conde, on May 6,
1995, in Pine Beach, N.J. The cou-
ple lives in Beachwood, where the
groom works as a commodity market
reporter specializing in perishables.
He enjoys “surfing and messing
with cars whenever possible.”

Dayton P. Haigney III ’87L

to Alexandra Deering, on Oct. 14,
1995, in New York City. The groom
is an associate at the New York law
firm of Callahan, Schepp, Yuhas,
Adams & Carfora.

Kevin D. McNamara ’88

to Andrea Roehner, on June 24,
1995, in Delaware, Ohio. The cou-
ple lives in Dublin, home to the
semi-retired groom’s international
marketing business.

Scott D. Rippeon ’88

to RoseAnn Loretta Pitzl, on Oct. 7,
1995, in Lewistown, Md. The cou-
ple lives in Thurmont, Md., and the
groom teaches at Urbana High
School in the Frederick County
public school system.

W. Gary Tucker Jr. ’88

to Wendy Beason, on Aug. 19, 1995,
in Huntsville, Ala. Parkhill Mays
°87, Charles Upchurch °88, and Brad
Thompson °88 were groomsmen.
The couple lives in Huntsville.

Monica Miller ’88L

to David Walsh, on June 10, 1995,
in Stanford, Calif. The bride was
given in marriage by her father,
William C. Miller ’58. Maid of
honor was classmate Rachel Sens.
The bride works in the civil division
of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Los
Angeles and the couple resides in
Woodland Hills, Calif.

Paul R. Eyerly 1V ’89

to Donna Doughty °91,

on Oct. 14, 1995, in Atlanta. The
wedding party included Tom
Herndon ’89, Keiko Harada ’91, and
Kathy Moritz °91. The couple lives
in Walnut Creek, Calif.

Mary Hoge Ackerly ’89L

to Edward C. Anderson II, on Oct.
28, 1995, in Richmond. The couple
lives in Richmond, where the bride
works for James River Corp. of Va.

Virginia W. Barrett ’90

to Scott W. Price, on Sept. 16, 1995,
in Richmond. The couple resides in
Fairfax, Va.

Frank J. DeMento Jr. °90

to Rebecca C. Walker, on July 8,
1995, in Franklin, ‘Tenn. Classmates
Paul Gilbert and Bill McLean were
groomsmen. Steve Head ’88 was
also in the wedding party. The cou-
ple lives in Huntington, N.Y., where
the groom is associated with the
Manhattan-based law firm of Evans,
Orr, Laffan & DeMaggio.

F. Henry Ferris IV °90

to Sonya Mustafa, in August 1995,
in Richmond. Classmate Steve
Mueller served as a groomsman.
Ferris graduated from Wake Forest
University School of Law in 1994
and is an account executive with
Morris International, a sports-mar-
keting firm in Charlotte.

Robert H. Rimmer 1V °90

to Kimberly Booth ’91,

on April 29, 1995, in Kiawah Island,
S.C. Included in the groom’s party
were classmates Daniel Harris,
Bland Warren, Philip Sampson, Lee
Fleming, Fred Turpin, Robert
‘Tompkins, Wes Boyd, and John
Falk ’86, °90L. Members of the
bridal party were classmates Amy
Miles, Clare Chapoton, Alicia Hay,
Anne Armentrout Rackley, Mary
Stanton Smith, Sarah Conrad
Smythe, Cristina Robinson, Victoria
Allen, Cara Mullin Milling, Janice
Ferman Straske, and Cynthia
Walton Moriconi ’90 and Elizabeth
Calder Britt 99. The couple lives in
Arlington, Va., where the bride
works for the Republican National
Committee for GOP-T’V and the
groom works in business develop-
ment at MCI.

Melissa Roberts ’90

to David E. Peters, on Oct. 21, 1995,
at R.E. Lee Episcopal Church in
Lexington. The couple lives in
Charlottesville.

Stephen A. Mayo ’90L

to Patricia A. Cox, on Oct. 21, 1995,
in Greensboro, N.C. The couple
lives in Greensboro, where the
groom is an attorney with Adams,
Kleemeier, Hagan, Hannah &
Fouts. He concentrates his practice
in the areas of corporate and busi-
ness law, bankruptcy and commer-
cial litigation.

Jennifer Bandrowski °91

to Mark Ashley Inman, on Nov. 18,
1995, in Atlanta. Classmate Sue
Watson was a member of the bridal
party. The couple lives in Atlanta.

L. Shane Grundy ’91

to Terril Shea Gills, on Jan. 20,
1996, in Clearwater, Fla. Classmate
John McWhirter was best man. The
couple lives in Lutz. Grundy is com-
pleting his internship in internal
medicine at the University of South
Florida and will start his radiology
residency at the University of
Florida in July.

Jeffrey C. Hakanson °91

to Janet Sue Weaver, on Dec. 16,
1995, in Houston. The couple lives
in Tampa, Fla., where the groom is
an associate at the law firm of
Echevarria, McCalla, Raymer,
Barrett, and Frappier.

Christopher M. Kavanagh °91
to Eileen Margret Mulhall, on Oct.
15, 1995. The couple lives in Mont-
clair, N.J. Kavanagh graduated from
Quinnipiac College School of Law
in 1994 and works in the trusts and
estates department of the Bank of
New York.

John E. McManus ’91

to Melissa Anne Cranmer, on Sept.
9, 1995, in Greenwich, Conn. The
couple lives in Potomac, Md., and

44

the groom is a legislative analyst for
the Washington (D.C.) office of Eli
Lilly & Co.

Kathleen Moritz °91

to Christopher Rudasill, on Dec. 16,
1995. The wedding party included
classmates Shawn Wert Manson,
Keiko Hara, and Sharon Coleman.
The bride teaches world history at
Park View High School in Loudoun
County, Va., and the couple lives in
Sterling.

Christian Renau °91

to Ben Worth °92,

on Nov. 25, 1995, in Lee Chapel.
Classmate Amy Packard was the
matron of honor. The couple lives in
Lexington, Ky.

Kathryn A. Richard ’91

to Erik C. Brandroid, on Sept. 30,
1995, in Manhasset, N.Y. The
couple lives in New York City,
where the bride is assistant con-
troller of Zeckendorf Realty.

James M. Sawyer °91

to Brehanna Vassar, on April 1, 1995,
in Las Vegas. The couple lives with
their newborn daughter, Anna
Violet, in Roanoke, where Sawyer is
a free-lance writer.

G. Albert Wilkinson Jr. °91

to Laura Hendrey °92,

on July 23, 1994, in Lee Chapel.
Classmate David Bennett was a
groom’s attendant and Amy Packard
"91 was a member of the bridal party
along with the bride’s classmates
Laura Rutherford, Amy Beall, and
Lisa Preston.

Jacob M. Plotkin °92

to Karen Bosi 93,

on June 24, 1995, in Richmond. The
wedding party included classmates
of the groom, Frank Moore and
‘Tom Mayer as well as his brother
Adam "95. Classmates of the bride
in the wedding party were Laura
Mayer and Heather Cook. The cou-
ple lives in Richmond and the
groom is editor of the Caroline
Progress weekly newspaper in near-
by Bowling Green, Va.

James T. Ryan °92

to Sonja Horner, on Aug. 5, 1995, in
Medford, N.J. He is in his fourth
year of teaching English in Kobe,
Japan.

Eric R. Thiessen °92

to Elizabeth Joanne Baer, on June
17, 1995, in Rural Retreat, Va.
Brother Douglas Thiessen 95 was
best man and classmate Toby
McCoy was a groomsman. The
couple lives in Des Moines, Iowa,
where Thiessen is in his third year
of law school. He is editor-in-chief
of the law review at Drake Univer-
sity and works for a local law firm.

Sara M. (Ricci) Webb °92
to Howard Bender, on Oct. 7, 1995,

in Jacksonville, Fla. Classmate Julie
Lawrence was in the bridal party.
She was given in marriage by her
father, Jesse Webb ’59. The couple
lives in Arlington, Va., and the bride
works as a loan production assistant
for Washington Mortgage Finance
Group in Vienna.

Jeffrey D. Willis °92

to Tracy A. Bradshaw, on Sept. 2,
1995, in Annapolis, Md. G. Eric
Foust °92, Jeffrey L. Willis ’75L,
and Melinda Conkling ’91 were
members of the wedding party. The
couple lives in Phoenix, Ariz., where
the groom works for Shea Homes.

Christopher B. Boggs °93 to
Caroline Clarke °93

on Oct. 7, 1995, in Atlanta. The cou-
ple lives in Richmond.

Jennifer M. Carr °93

to John A. Rabaey, on Aug. 5, 1995,
in Casey, Ill. Classmates Angela
Mims, Jenny Miller, and Susan
Rucker were in the bridal party.
The couple now lives in the base-
ment of a girl’s dormitory at
Wayland Academy, a boarding high
school in Beaver Dam, Wis., where
the bride teaches geometry and
trigonometry.

Dennis Gambow °93

to Cheri Bradley, on Nov. 18, 1995,
in Houston. The couple lives in
Cincinnati.

C. Scott Smith °93

to Carol Clingenteel, on Dec. 16,
1995, in Richmond. Groomsmen
included classmates Scott Hicks,
Chris Crenshaw, Marty Mahoney,
and Dave Stevens '92, The couple
lives in Richmond, where the groom
is an underwriter for Markel Insur-
ance Co.

Dan T.C. Rhodes °94

to Julie Giddens, on Aug. 19, 1995,
in Dallas. Laura Voekel, and Laura
Clark were in the bridal party and
classmates John Robinson, Kevin
Roddey, and Alan McKnight were
in the groom’s party. The bride was
a W&L exchange student from
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
for the fall semester of 1992. The
couple lives in Dallas.

M. Scott Robinson °94

to Eleanor H. Roy ’95,

on Oct. 14, 1995, in Louisville, Ky.
Chris Walker 94 was a groomsman
and classmates of the bride Lise
Brown, Susan Fisher, Mary Muehl-
berg, Betsy Treadway, and Amy
Vogt were bridesmaids. The couple
lives in Atlanta where the groom is
a stockbroker with Scottsdale
Securities and the bride is a com-
mercial banker with Suntrust Bank.

Matthew L. Tompson °94

to Valerie M. Shannon °94,

on Nov. 25, 1995, in Houston.
Classmates Laura Voekel, Maryanna

?

Phipps, Marguerite Nielsen, Rac
Zloczover, and Carol Pierce *95
bridesmaids. John Kleckley, Ben
Fuller, Andrew Bowen, Ames
Hutton, and Henry Sauer, Class-
mates of the groom, were also m
bers of the wedding party. The coy.
ple resides in Houston where the
groom attends the University of
‘Texas Health and Science Center
and the bride attends the Baylor
College of Medicine.

R. Ray Craig 95

to Julia Podlas ’95,

on June 3, 1995, in Lee Chapel,
The couple lives in Houston.

Mark §. Crider °95

to Cindy Gregory on July 15, 1995,
in Lee Chapel. Included in the
wedding party were classmates
Brian McClung, Jim Durbin, and
Patrick Hahm. The couple lives in _
Lexington, Ky., where Crider is a
first-year student at the University ©
of Kentucky School of Medicine.

Stacy Donovan ’95

to Jeffrey Godby, on July 22, 1995,
in Lee Chapel. The couple lives in
Chapel Hill, N.C.

Stacy L. Newlin ’95

to Lt. David Nyikos, on July 15,
1995, in Tulsa, Okla. Bethany Smith
94 and Melissa Malone "95 were in
the bridal party.

Madonna A. Cook ’95L

to W. Dossen Estep, on Oct. 21,
1995. Classmate Alicia Dickerson
was a bridesmaid. The couple lives ©
in Dunbar, W.Va.

Lori Francine Johnson “95L

to Laurence Edward Kyle, on Sept.
2, 1995, in Lexington, Va. The cou- |
ple lives in Fort Bragg, N.C.

Derek A. Poteet °97L

to Porsha Marie Ingles, on June 17,
1995, in Swansea, Mass. The couple
lives in Lexington, where the groom
is a second-year law student.

Births

Mr. © Mrs. James R. Denny —
III °73, a daughter, Sarah Ralston,
on June 5, 1995. The family lives in”
Richmond.

Mr. & Mrs. Lee Keiger 111 "76,
a son, J. Lee IV, on Aug. 7, 1995.
The family lives in Midlothian, Va

Mr. & Mrs. Michael H. Clary
‘77, a daughter, Faith, on May 23,
1995. Clary is a family practice
physician in Richlands, Va. The
family lives in Pounding Mill, Va. &

Mr. © Mrs. Thomas B. .
Rentschler Jr. °79, a daughter, —
Anna Brooks, on Dec. 4, 1995. She

joins a brother, Thomas III, and a
sister, Abigail. Rentschler is a part-
ner in the Cincinnati ad agency
Hensley Segal Rentschler Inc.

pr. & Mrs. William H.
Matthai Jr. °80, a daughter,
Charlotte Rose, on Sept. 1, 1995.
The family lives in Merion, Pa.

Mr. © Mrs. John R. Stagmaier
*g0, ason, Robert Becking, on

Aug. 30, 1995. The family lives in
Signal Mountain, ‘Tenn.

Mr. © Mrs. Jefferson J. Reiter
'8/, a daughter, Rachel Elaine, on
Oct. 12, 1995. The family lives in
Chicago.

Mr. © Mrs. W. Currin Snipes
Jr. °81, ason, Wilson Currin III,
on Aug. 23, 1995. He joins a sister,
Meriwether, who is 7. Snipes con-
tinues to work as a reporter with
KATU-TYV in Portland, Ore.

Mr. @ Mrs. William F.L.
Brown ’82, ason, Peter Rust, on
July 28, 1995. He joins two brothers.
The family lives in Basking Ridge,
N.]J.

Mr. © Mrs. David E. Jensen
’82, a daughter, Caitlin Shelby, on
Oct. 5, 1995. She joins a sister,
Ashley. The family lives in
Herndon, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Jonathan H.
Pakula ’82, ason, Jordan Elliot,
on June 8, 1995. He is “the first

- Pakula ever born below the Mason-
Dixon Line.” The family lives in
Atlanta.

Mr. © Mrs. David C. Tyler
’82, a son, Christopher Calhoun,
on Sept. 2, 1995. The family lives in
Atlanta.

Mr. © Mrs. George H. West
82, a daughter, Ashley, on Aug. 5,
1995. She joins a brother, Alex. The
family lives in Savannah, Ga., where
West is employed by Faison &
Associates.

Mr. @ Mrs. Usher T. Winslett
'82, a daughter, Casey Kushner, on
May 17, 1995. The family lives in
New York City.

Mr. @ Mrs. James L. Baldwin
Jr. ’83, a daughter, Marie Clark,
on Oct. 11, 1995. She joins a sister,
Sarah. The family lives in Dallas,
Where Baldwin is a partner with the
law firm of Hutcheson & Grundy.

Mr. © Mrs. John E. Buttarazzi
§3, a daughter, Alice Matheson,
on Aug. 30, 1995. The family
fecently moved from Manhattan to
Peekskill, N.Y. Buttarazzi has been
Mame vice president for policy for
the Empire State Development

tp. In that capacity, he also serves

a

as staff director for the New York
State Advisory Commission on
Privatization.

Mr. © Mrs. Robert S. Griffith
III °83, ason, Wright Denny, on
April 14, 1995. The family lives in
Atlanta.

Mr. @ Mrs. Mark W. Kibbe
‘83, ason, Michael Joseph, on
March 11, 1995. The family lives in
Ashburn, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Fred H. Rindge V
’83, ason, Benjamin Jackson, on
Sept. 12, 1995. He joins a sister,
Brianna and a brother, Nicholas.
The family lives in Charleston, S.C.,
where Rindge is sports editor of the
Post and Courter.

Mr. © Mrs. Jeffrey D. Dixon
’85, a daughter, Ana Eilise, on
Aug. 2, 1995. She joins a sister, Aryn
Elizabeth. The family lives in
Kansas City, Mo.

Mr. © Mrs. Jay M. Wallace
"85, a daughter, Regan Eleanor, on
Nov. 27, 1995. The family lives in
Dallas.

Mr. @ Mrs. Laurence 8. Anker
’86, a daughter, Abigail Lauren, on
May 17, 1995. The family lives in
Erie, Pa. Anker was promoted to
senior research associate in Inter-
national Paper’s technology division.

Mr. @ Mrs. James M. Auch IIl
‘86, a daughter, Casey Virginia, on
Sept. 18, 1995. The family lives in
West Chester, Pa. Auch teaches
upper and middle-school math at
Moorestown (N.J.) Friends School.

Mr. @ Mrs. William R.
Hemphill Jr. °86, ason, Garrett
DeWitt, on Aug. 9, 1995. He joins a
brother, Rush. The family lives in
Austin, Texas.

Mr. @ Mrs. J. Steven Grist
*86L, ason, Thomas Mason, on
Oct. 25, 1995. The family lives in
Lexington.

Mr. @ Mrs. C. Mark Kelly
*86L, a daughter, Caroline Grace,
on July 19, 1994. The family lives in
Charlotte, where Kelly is a partner
with the law firm of Parker Poe
Adams & Bernstein.

Mr. @ Mrs. Tyler 8. Carr 87,
a daughter, Caroline Marie, on Jan.
1, 1995. The family lives in Alexan-
dria, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Richard W. Hurley
III ’87, a daughter, Charlotte
Ruth, on Dec. 3, 1995. The family
lives in Cranford, N.J.

Mr. © Mrs. John G. Koedel Ill
’87, ason, Taylor Lee, on Oct. 27,
1995. The family lives in Richmond.

Mr. @ Mrs. Bradley B.
Newsome ’87, a daughter,
Virginia Varden, on Sept. 27, 1995.
The family lives in Lexington, Ky.

Mr. @ Mrs. Powell H. Smith

'87, a daughter, Mamie Elizabeth
on Aug. 26, 1995. She joins a sister,
Ellen Virginia. The family lives in

Atlanta.

Mr. @ Mrs. Paul A. Youngman
‘87, ason, Alexander Peter, on
Sept. 14, 1995. The family lives in
Arlington, Va. Youngman finished
his master’s in German literature at
the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill and is now a candidate
for his doctorate at Georgetown.

Mr. © Mrs. Thomas J. McBride
*88, ason, Thomas Lucas, on Jan.
23, 1995. The family lives in Dallas.

Mr. @ Mrs. John A. Williamson
’88L, ason, John Taylor, on Sept.
26, 1995. He joins a sister, Sophie, 2.
Grandfather is Henry Williamson °52.
Williamson is a member of the firm
Martin, Tate, Morrow & Marston.
The family lives in Memphis, Tenn.

Michael D. Carroll ’89 @
Julie Sheppard Carroll ’89, a
daughter, Kendall Anne, on, Nov.
22, 1995. The family lives in West-
wood Hills, Kan. Mike is director of
human resources for Harrah’s Enter-
tainment North Kansas City casino.

Mr. @ Mrs. Michael D. Drusano
’89, a daughter, Caroline Downey,

on Nov. 7, 1995. She joins a brother.
The family lives in Lutherville, Md.

Mr. @ Mrs. David N. Klabo
’89, ason, Davis Alexander, on
May 16, 1995. The family lives in
Fairfax, Va.

Kristen V.K. Swenson ’89L,
and her husband, Perry, a daughter,
Haley Elizabeth, on Feb. 9, 1995.
The family lives in Ewa Beach,
Hawaii. Swenson is an attorney in
the Honolulu firm of Kessner Duca
Umebayashi Bain & Matsunaga.

Sarah Allen Novak °90

and her husband, Ralph, a son,
Andrew Lathan, on March 31, 1995.
The family lives in Cary, N.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. J. Emmette
Pilgreen IV ’90, ason, John
Emmette V, on Oct. 19, 1995. The
family lives in Roanoke.

Mr. @ Mrs. Andrew R. Lee
"90L, ason, Taylor Douglas, on
Oct. 6, 1995. The family lives in
New Orleans, where Lee is an asso-
ciate at the firm of Jones, Walker.

Mr. © Mrs. Douglas M.
Cummings Jr. ’91, ason, Cole
Maupin, on Nov. 15, 1995. The fam-
ily lives in Camden, Maine.

Mr. @ Mrs. Clark E. Wight
"91, a daughter, Carter Elizabeth,
on Aug. 27, 1995. The family lives
in Baltimore.

Margaret Graf Linsler ’91L,

a son, Matthew David, on April 2,
1995. Linsler opened her own law
practice with her brother-in-law,
Steven D. Sessler ’89L, last January.

Mr. @ Mrs. Evans G. Edwards
*93, a daughter, Isabel Grace, on
Aug. 21, 1995. The family lives in
West Haven, Conn., where Edwards
is a third-year student at Yale Law
School.

Mr. © Mrs. Roger G. Bowers
"94L, a daughter, Corine Casey, on
July 3, 1995. The family lives in
Richmond, where Bowers is the
treasurer of the Richmond alumni
chapter.

Mr. © Mrs. Robert V. Sartin
"95L, a daughter, Madison Reed,
on Sept. 26, 1995. The couple lives
in Lexington, Ky., where Sartin is
an associate with the law firm of
Greenebaum Doll & McDonald.

in Memoriam

Robert S. Cherry Jr. °22,
cotton broker and farmland owner,
died Sept. 29, 1995, in Pine Bluff,
Ark. He was a member of Beta
Theta Pi. Upon graduating from
W&L, he attended Georgia Tech
and went on to spend more than 50
years in the cotton business.

Harold D. St. John °25,

retired businessman, died Dec. 6,
1995, in Destin, Fla. St. John was
president of H.W. St. John & Co., a
foreign freight forwarder and cus-
tomhouse broker in New York, from
1930 until his retirement in 1960.
He was a past president of the New
York Foreign Freight Forwarders
Association and a member of the
National Customhouse Brokers
Association.

Francis W. Plowman ’24,
retired Scott Paper Co. executive
and former chairman of the W&L
Alumni Board, died Dec. 7, 1995, in
Haverford, Pa. A member of Phi
Kappa Sigma and Omicron Delta
Kappa at W&L, he earned a post-
graduate degree from Harvard
Business School in 1938. He retired
from Scott in 1967 as vice president
and director after 40 years of service.

Harry J. Tardy °27,

retired school administrator, died
Nov. 28, 1995, in Athens, Ga. He
was general supervisor of the
Rockbridge County School System
for 34 years and lived most of his life
in Lexington.

William J. Luria ’28,

retired businessman, died Sept. 30,
1995, in Abington, Pa. He was a
member of Zeta Beta Tau at W&L.
He worked as an officer with Luria
Brothers & Co., a scrap iron and
steel brokerage company, until his
retirement in 1971. He was active in
the Federation of Jewish Agencies,
the United Fund, Willowcrest
Bamberger health institution, and
the Pennsylvania Environmental
Council. He was a member of the
Congregation Rodeph Shalom and
had served as its vice president.

Alfred 1. Schlossberg ’29,
retired textile manufacturer, died
Dec. 4, 1995, in Palm Beach, Fla.
He was a member of Zeta Beta Tau.
He formed his own company in the
1950s, Alfred Schlossberg Inc., and
manufactured fabric for men’s
shirts. He was an avid golfer and
maintained a home in Manhattan
and a home in Palm Beach for many
years until moving to Palm Beach
upon his retirement.

J. Marshall Vaught ’30,

retired businessman, died Aug. 25,
1995, in Mount Dora, Fla. He was a
member of Phi Gamma Delta.
Vaught received his law degree from
George Washington University in
1942 and worked for his family busi-
ness, W. W. Vaught & Sons, retiring
as secretary and treasurer.

A. Bernard Levin °31,

retired businessman, died Dec. 20,
1994, in Roanoke. He was a member
of Phi Epsilon Pi fraternity. He
received his bachelor of law degree
from the University of Georgia and
worked for many years in the leather
industry before becoming president
of American Chemical Co. in
Roanoke. Levin served as president
until his retirement in 1969.

Thomas P. Doughty °33,

retired economist and loan officer,
died Dec. 24, 1995, in Bethesda,
Md. Before World War II, he
worked for the Harris Upham & Co.
brokerage in New York, then came
to Washington, D.C., in 1942 as an
investigator for the Foreign Funds
Control Agency of the Treasury
Dept. He served in the Army in the
Pacific during the war, then
returned to the Treasury as a finan-
cial specialist. He later worked for
the Economic Cooperation
Administration in Berlin and Tokyo.
In 1960, he joined the Export-
Import Bank, retiring in 1977.

Dr. Alvin B. Ortner ’33,
retired surgeon, died Jan. 12, 1996,
in Louisville, Ky. An Army veteran
of World War II, Ortner graduated
from the University of Louisville
School of Medicine and taught
surgery there. He was chief of
surgery at both the old and the new

Jewish Hospitals. A pioneer in vas-
cular surgery, he was among the first
to use synthetic materials for artifi-
cial veins. He also helped found the
Health Care Review, a managed
health-care organization. Ortner was
a fellow in the American College of
Surgeons and belonged to numerous
surgical and medical associations
and a former diplomat to the
American Board of Surgery. He
retired as a surgeon in 1985.

James P. Jordan ’35,

retired businessman and banker,
died Dec. 22, 1995, in Emporia, Va.
Jordan joined Emporia Sash and
Door Co. in 1937 and worked there
51 years, becoming president and
treasurer in the 1940s. After selling
the business in 1985, he stayed on
as president for three more years.
He served on Emporia City Council
and the Greensville County Board
of Supervisors in the 1950s and was
vice president of Citizens National
Bank (now Central Fidelity Bank)
from 1967 to 1985.

Dr. Thomas H. Alphin °36,
retired professor of medicine, died
Sept. 17, 1995, in Staunton, Va. He
received his master of science from
the University of Virginia in 1938
and was an assistant professor of
biology at W&L in 1942 before
earning his medical degree from the
University of Virginia in 1947. He
then taught anatomy at UVa until
1950 when he became a medical
examiner. He went on to become
the director of Medicaid for
Alabama and to run the Washington
office of the American Medical
Association. He retired as a profes-
sor of medicine from the University
of Alabama Birmingham.

Robert M. MacLaurin °36,
retired attorney, died April 2, 1994,
in Fort Walton Beach, Fla. He
received his law degree from the
University of Alabama in 1938 and
practiced law for more than 50 years
with Maddox, MacLaurin, Nichol-
son & Thornley in Jasper. He was a
lieutenant colonel in the Air Force
and a Mason and Shriner.

Robert C. Weston °36,

retired communications manager,
died Oct. 22, 1995, in Yonkers, N.Y.
He served in the Navy during World
War II. He managed foreign press
services for ITT World Communi-
cations, retiring as public relations
manager. He was a member of the
Society of Professional Journalists
and the Downtown Athletic Club in
New York City.

Gilbert S. Meem °38,

retired coal sales executive, died
Dec. 9, 1995, in Bluefield, W.Va. He
was a member of Sigma Nu and cap-
tain of the 1938 Southern Confer-
ence championship swim team at

W&L. Meem began his work in the
coal business upon graduation and
served in the W.Va. State Guard
during World War II. He retired
from Consolidation Coal Co. in 1980.

Harry A. Miller °38,

retired insurance executive, died
Oct. 21, 1995, in Hanover, N.H. He
was a member of Phi Delta Theta
fraternity. After attending W&L, he
moved to Pennsylvania and began
working for what is now Reliance
Insurance Co. of Philadelphia where
he retired as executive vice presi-
dent. He was with the same firm for
more than 40 years with the excep-
tion of the four years he spent in the
Army as an artillery captain.

Charles P. Lewis Jr. °40,
retired surgeon, died Dec. 8, 1995,
in Reidsville, N.C. A member of
Sigma Chi at W&L, he was a major
in the Marines during World War II
and received the Purple Heart for
his action in the South Pacific.
Lewis then attended medical school
at Duke University and practiced
medicine in Reidsville for 35 years.

Ned H. Brower 42,

retired retail executive, died Oct. 8,
1995, in Boca Raton, Fla. He was a
member of Zeta Beta Tau and the
baseball team at W&L. After serv-
ing in the Pacific theater in the
Navy during World War II and
being discharged as a lieutenant
commander, he became president of
the family business, Beau Brummell
Ties in Cincinnati. He retired in
1980 and moved to Boca Raton.

Dr. Irvin A. Leunig °42,
retired dentist, died Sept. 21, 1994.
He was a member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon at W&L. He served in the
Army during World War II and was
discharged as captain. He received
his doctorate of dental science from
Northwestern University and was a
practicing dentist for 40 years.

Robert L. Wilson °42,

retired attorney, died June 11, 1995,
in St. Petersburg, Fla. A member of
Phi Kappa Psi and Phi Delta Phi,
Wilson received his law degree from
the University of Florida College of
Law. He was captain of the 45th
Infantry Division in the Army dur-
ing World War II. He practiced law
in St. Petersburg for many years.

L.R. (Bob) Coulling °43, °49L,
retired attorney, died Jan. 8, 1996, in
Bluefield, W.Va. He was a member
of Pi Kappa Alpha. After World War
II, during which he served in the
European theater as an officer in
medical administration, he returned
to W&L to complete his undergrad-
uate work and to earn a law degree.
Coulling became a founding partner
of Hudgins and Coulling in
Bluefield, where he practiced law
for almost 40 years.

a

Houston M. Kimbrough 43
retired oil executive, died July 15
1995, in Nevada City, Calif. He w.
a member of Beta Theta Pi ang Phi
Eta Sigma and Phi Beta Kappa hon-
orary societies at W&L. He served
in the Navy during World War ll
and worked for DuPont upon dis-
charge. He later worked for
Standard Oil Co. before retiring
from Chevron Corp. in 1983.

Stancliff C. Elmore °44,
retired attorney, died Noy. 1, 1995
in Washington, D.C. He was a meal
ber of Phi Delta Theta fraternity,
He served in the Army during
World War II and received his law
degree from George Washington
University. He served as counse] to
the House of Representatives and
was a partner in two different firms
before practicing independently,

Alexander H. Walker ’44,
retired chemical employee, died
Dec. 18, 1994, in Fredericksburg,
Va. He was a member of Alpha Tay
Omega, the Glee Club, and the
American Chemical Society. He
worked for the Patent & Trademark
Office in Washington, D.C., Union
Carbide, and as editor for the
Chemical Abstracts Service at Ohio
State University.

George C. Duffield ’48L,
retired attorney, died Nov. 10, 1995,
in Venice, Fla. He practiced law in
West Virginia for 40 years before
retiring to Venice. He was a mem-
ber of the W.Va. State Bar and was
an active member of the Veterans of
Foreign Wars, having been an Army
veteran of World War II.

Chapin M. Boyd ’50,

retired businessman, died Jan. 13,
1996, in Ridgewood, N.J. A member
of Beta Theta Pi at W&L, he was
active musically in college, playing
trombone in his own locally success-
ful band, Chap Boyd & His South-
ern Collegians. Boyd served in the
Naval Reserve during World War Il
and in the Air Force during the
Korean War. He worked for the
Abex Corp. for many years until his
recent retirement and was active
with W&L’s Alumni Admissions
Program in New Jersey.

J. Ross Hanahan III ’50,
plantation owner, died Oct. 17,
1994, in Mount Pleasant, S.C. He
attended W&L briefly before trans-
ferring to, and graduating from,
Citadel. He was an Army veteran
World War II.

Chedville L. Martin Jr. “50,
'53L, retired attorney, died Nov-
21, 1995, in Rockville, Md. He was
stationed with the Army in
Germany during World War II. He
retired from the solicitor’s office
the Department of the Interior,
where he worked for 30 years-

Robert S. Goldsmith Jr. ’51,
53, retired commercial real
estate executive, died Dec. 7, 1995,
in Roanoke. He served in the Army
in the European theater during
World War II. Goldsmith was a
member of Phi Kappa Sigma as well
as the football and basketball teams
at W&L, and played on the 1951
Southern Conference championship
ream that went to the Gator Bowl.
He served as president, chairman,
and chief operating officer of
Peoples Federal Savings & Loan
until 1976 and founded the
Roanoke chapter of the American
Savings & Loan Institute.

Edward B. Callahan ’52,
independent insurance agent, died
Oct. 19, 1995, in New Haven, Conn.
He served in the Marine Corps dur-
ing the Korean War.

John P. Ward ’54L,

retired oil executive, died Dec. 16,
1995, in Huntington, W.Va. He was
a distinguished alumnus of Marshall
University, winning its award with
that name in 1992. He worked for
Ashland Oil in Ashland, Ky., for 35
years as a staff attorney and retired
as corporate secretary in 1992.

Garry P. Martin ’57,

retired manager at Bell Atlantic,
died Sept. 2, 1995, in Columbia,
Md. He was a member of Phi Kappa
Psi, the Interfraternity Council, and
the Cotillion Club at W&L. Martin
worked for Chesapeake & Potomac
Telephone Co. in Charleston, W.Va.,
before moving to Columbia in 1967
to work for C&P. He later worked
for Bell Atlantic Corp., retiring in
1993 as manager of rates and tariffs.

William I. Winchester ’58,
businessman, died June 15, 1995.
He was a longtime investment
banker, having worked for Kitter
Peabody, the Webster Management
Corp., and most recently as chair-
man of Security Asset Management.
He had homes in New York City
and Louisville, Ky.

Robert S. Grady ’59,

insurance manager, died June 29,
1995, in Atlanta. He was a member
of the Kappa Alpha Order. He was
employed by Mutual of America as
aN assistant regional manager.

Richard §. Brown ’65,

sales manager, died March 2, 1995,
in Atlanta. A member of Phi Kappa
Psi at W&L, he served in the Army
during Vietnam and later went into
the chemical industry at Hercules
Inc. where he was, most recently,
National sales manager.

John L. Mendell ’65,

‘Ctired petroleum engineer, died
Nov, 8. 1995, in Lafayette, La. He
Was a member of Beta Theta Pi. He
Was a production engineer with

Amerada Petroleum Co. and later
acquired Broussard Greenhouses in
Lafayette. He served on the board
of Oakbourne Country Club and
was a champion of junior golf.

J. Gray Paul Jr. ’69L,

retired attorney, died April 1, 1995,
in Harrisonburg, Va. He graduated
from Virginia Military Institute in
1941 and was a member of the
Kappa Alpha Order. He subse-
quently served in the Army during
World War II in the European the-
ater. After working in Shenandoah
County for 19 years, Paul returned
to Lexington to study law at W&L.
He practiced law in Harrisonburg
until he retired.

Larry W. Wertz ’70L,

attorney, died Dec. 14, 1995, in
‘Tampa, Fla. A member of Kappa
Alpha Order at W&L, Wertz
received his undergraduate degree
from Virginia Military Institute and
served as an assistant staff judge
advocate in the Air Force after law
school. He later entered into private
practice with a St. Petersburg law
firm and was active in the trial
lawyers section of the Florida Bar.

B. Patrick Berg ’84,
mechanical engineer and aspiring
lawyer, died Nov. 6, 1995, in Imlay
City, Mich. He became an accom-
plished fencer while at W&L. He
worked for the Woodbridge Corp. in
Troy, Mich., as an engineer but had
earned a law degree from taking
night classes at the Detroit College
of Law and was looking forward to
shifting to a legal career.

David C. Thompson Jr. ’96,
a senior history major from Hunt
Valley, Md., died Jan. 28, 1996, fol-
lowing a single-car accident in
Rockbridge County. A member of
Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, he
was a three-time letter winner on
the Washington and Lee lacrosse
team as a midfielder. Before com-
ing to W&L, Thompson graduated
from the St. Paul’s School for Boys,
where he played on the lacrosse
team that twice won the Maryland
state championship. Thompson
received the Washington and Lee
scholar/athlete award last fall for his
grade-point average of 3.5.

Friend

Jimmie Ruth Spence Leach,
secretary to the Washington and
Lee librarian since 1982, died Dec.
13, 1995, in Roanoke. She was 64.
A native of Hamlet, N.C., she was
married to W.K. Leach, pastor of
Falling Spring Presbyterian Church
near Glasgow, Va.

Kd Campbell: 1899-1995

Edmund D. Campbell Sr. °18, °22L, a northern Virginia civic

leader and lawyer who played pivotal roles in school desegrega-

tion cases and argued the landmark 1962 Supreme Court case that

 

Campbell was the recipient of an honorary doctor of laws in 1989.

ordered reapportioning of state legislatures on the basis of popula-
tion, died Dec. 7, 1995, in Arlington, Va. He was 96.

A native of Lexington, Campbell was born in 1899 on the
Washington and Lee campus in the childhood home of his father,
W&L dean and geology professor Henry Donald “Dean
Harry” Campbell. Young Campbell entered Washington and Lee
at age 15, graduating as class valedictorian. He served six weeks
in the Army, then was discharged after the end of World War I.
He received a master’s degree in economics from Harvard
University, and graduated first in his class at Washington and Lee
Law School.

Campbell was a founding partner of the Washington-based
law firm that subsequently bore his name—Jackson and
Campbell. In his later years, he was of counsel to the firm. In
1962, he was named president of the District of Columbia Bar
Association, and in his 70s was a member of the Board of
Governors of the American Bar Association.

In 1958, alarmed at Virginia’s engagement in massive resis-
tance to the Supreme Court’s ruling that public schools must be
desegregated, Campbell became the counsel of record in the
landmark James vs. Almond case that eventually overturned the
massive resistance law. He recalled taking the case because: “I
felt that my life and career as a lawyer were on the line. But |
wanted that case. I wanted to do something that I felt was the
right thing to do.”

A Dec. 17 editorial in The Washington Post said: “In life as in
court, Ed Campbell fought injustice with a passion, insisting that
freedom be accorded citizens without regard to color or belief.
‘Liberty is the right to be yourself,’ he wrote, ‘to do what you

want so long as you do not injure society.”

47

Photo: Steve Szurlej/Golf Digest ©1996

By MIKE STACHURA °86

Working for Go/f Digest can make a
guy a little jaded, but anytime I feel my
head getting a little too big for my visor,
I remember playing in the firsts W&L
Open a couple of years ago with my dad
and an old W&L buddy of mine. That
memory rekindles in me the spirit of
this game we all love, a game that stirs
us not merely for how it challenges us as
individuals, but for how that challenge
becomes a collective experience as well.

So if you can, don’t miss the W&L
Open this summer, not least of all for
the opportunity to play The Cascades
Course at The Homestead, as good a
layout as there is in champi-

too carefully. As a writer friend once put
it, sometimes you need the precision of
a master jeweler, sometimes the brute
strength of a dock walloper.

I’ll leave you to your own devices to
discover the intricacies of every hole at
The Cascades, and I won’t bore you
with the details of the birdies and
bogeys of my last round. But were I to
whet your appetite a little, I might
direct your attention to the nifty 283-
yard third, a veritable cluster headache
disguised as a birdie hole; the gargantu-
an ninth, where even your Sunday best
drive still might leave you a blind sec-
ond shot to a green (marked by a bull’s-

—

to be cool still in late June.

Of course, the W&L Open js more
than the majesty of The Cascades and
the relaxed elegance of The Homestead.
There’s also the patented W&L-style
hospitality of the Alumni Office and an
optional Friday round at the Lexington
Golf and Country Club, a perfect collec.
tion of holes so engaging and so Satisfy-
ing it should be required playing for any
person thinking of getting into the golf
course architecture business. And there
is The Homestead course itself, site of
Sunday’s round, with the oldest tee (#1)
in continuous use in America. Several]
holes have been reworked to give the

layout more length, and a dri-

 

onship golf. How good is the
track originally drawn up on a
piece of scrap paper by
William Flynn 73 years ago?
Well, Flynn is the same guy
who also did a little work on
another out-of-the-way gem,
Pine Valley, and authored that
most brutish U.S. Open site,
Shinnecock Hills. Slammin’
Sam Snead himself calls The
Cascades the best mountain
course in the country and
maybe the best course, period,
in the South. (This from a guy
who’s played more than a few
rounds at that gentlemen’s
club in Augusta, Ga.) Ameri-
can golf's governing body, the
U.S. Golf Association loves it
too, having selected the
Virginia Hot Springs Golf and
Country Club—The Cascades’
formal name—to host one of
its championships seven times.
Snead says it best and simplest about
The Cascades: “You have to hit every
shot in the bag. You get all kinds of
lies—uphill, downhill, ball above your
feet and below. If a kid could learn to
play The Cascades he could become a
pretty damn good player.” (Like Sam
himself, for instance.) All ‘The Cascades
does is precisely what all the great
courses do: it shows you something dif-
ferent at every turn, it makes you hit
great, fun shots on every hole, and it
makes you think carefully about every
one of those shots, sometimes, of course,

48

 

 

IW sa lees Lattice
Erastxrusctior,
EBook.

Priceless advice from a guy who’s played with the prose

eye target 60 feet in the air) that only
looks large when you’re putting it; the
one-two punch at 12 and 13, picture-
perfect driving holes that might leave
you and your game for dead; or the
uniquely remarkable 3-5-5-3 finish
which gives everyone the chance to feel
like a hero or play like a goat. All this
amid a setting so glorious you’d think it
were the inspiration for a national hymn,
where the only noises come from the
cries of a cardinal complaining about
intruders or the gentle creaks of a few
top heavy oaks being pushed back and
forth in a breeze that somehow manages

ving range has also been
added near the hotel.

Golf seems to me to be
very much about times and
places like these, where the
game’s frustrations are quiet-
ed instantly by the laughter
of familiar playing partners,
where the best shots fre-

 

quently come after play has
finished, and where the
serene beauty of the setting
is only enhanced by the
number of eyes there to wit-
ness it. | remember that last
trip well: how the three of us
walked and carried our own
bags at Lexington on Friday
afternoon; how my dad laced
his opening drive early
Sunday morning without so
much as a practice swing;
how my younger, bolder pal
scrambled to a par from out
of the woods at 16; and how they both
cheered me on when I reached the
green at 17 in two. I missed the eagle
putt, of course, and neither has let me
forget it, but what of it? It is still the
best second shot I’ve ever hit.

I look forward to all that again this
summer, time and circumstances permit
ting. Care to join us? We need a fourth.

Former Alumni Magazine editor Mike
Stachura ’86 (pictured, above, with I 994
PGA player of the year Nick Price) 1s @
associate editor for Golf Digest—a fob, he
admits, that’s “even better” than it sounds.

 

Ms od
v “es
~~ ‘
‘ s

in
hey

‘
e
a
a
None
- se
= as i
Ree : hm
a
.

 

    

 

 

é
’
“ *
7
Z
-
:
i . *
. .
r rE
Ee aad ‘
: % < an
Q 2 4 '
iy * <2
+f -
. : “ ja” " Pm
aie : ”
; ed a
é . ~
a : - a
_ " » , oe
“4 ’ >
3 : it Co
oe * me 4 — = t »~
= 7 + . ne ‘ o “4
. ; : P+ note? pr.
Z é
~_
=
_
4

     
     
     
 

   

 

went fies BEN.

 

eee aes weather: i 3

7 oe take
to-the Colonnade on Ice

 

 

The Washington and Lee University
ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Lexington, Virginia 24450

arbara J. Brown
yburt Library
yburn Library

L€
e

’

—

 

 

Non-Profit Org.

U.S. Postage Y
ae i
Permit + 161 i

Lynchburg, VA

