 

 

     
    

Z
7
% A 4 i
/
:
‘

ve

af

od

. eS ~

2

*

ae

Ss

      

 

 

 

 

 

Arch
37%.755
W 3/7G/u

vV.G
nd. 4}

 

 

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

TS
BRIAN D. SHaw, Executive Editor

Mike STACHURA, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

DrENISE KUHN, Designer

Curis BARADEL, Class Notes Editor
PATRICK HINELY, Photographer

BRIAN LoGur, Sports Editor

WiLLtaM Cocke IV, Contributing Editor

EVAN ATKINS, Contributing Editor

Published four times a year in April, July,
October, and December by Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia 24450. All
communications and POD Forms 3579 should
be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450, (703)463-8464. Third-
class postage paid at Cincinnati, Ohio 45214.
Signed articles reflect the views of their authors
and not necessarily those of the editorial staff or
the University.

! \pe for this magazine was set using equipment
provided through the generosity of Mary Moody
Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

 

Com ilaNIS

VOLUME 66, NUMBER 4, WINTER 1991

FEATURES

10

16

18

22

41

GAZETTE

26
28
29
35
36
38

A Letter from the Alumni AssociationPresident
Ernie and Marj Williams

The Williams’ gift of $8.3 million is the second-largest single gift from a lieing alumnus in school
history; it reflects their “great affection for Washington and Lee...and a representation of what WEL,
has meant to the Williams family.”

Making Better Scientists

WEL.’s commitment to a strong science program is reflected in its motrvated students, its dedicated
teachers, and its farsighted plans for the future.

A Change from Within

The Fraternity Renaissance Program, which celebrated the renovation of eight houses in October, is
not simply about new buildings and pretty landscaping; it is the reaffirmation of an ideal and a
challenge to the men who occupy those buildings.

From the kitchen of: Mrs. Robert E. Lee

Some of Lexington’s best cooks had the opportunity to sample some of General Lee’s favorite recipes,
thanks to the research of Anne Zimmer, cookbook author|social historian.

> 9 ‘ >. + >. 9
Strengthening W&L’s ‘Unique Characteristics
A. Stevens Miles Jr.,°51, reflects on his first year as Rector of the Board of Trustees and shares his
thoughts on the state of the University.

On the Road with the Generals

Life on the road with the W@L football Generals certainly is anything but a vacation, especially when
the road trip is the seemingly never-ending bus ride to play Sewanee.

The Generals’ Report

The success of the 1991 WEL fall sports season was not always measured by wins and losses, but by
the leaps and bounds of improvement made with each passing week.

CLASS NOTES

Alumni Notes
Marriages
Births

In Memoriam

Homecoming 46
Hall of Fame 57
Benefactors Wall 58
The Bookshelf 60
Law News

Alumni News

 

 

PHOTO CREDITS:

The cover photo, which shows a Homecoming cocktail party at the recently

renovated Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity house, was shot by Scott Ferrell, ’87. The

cover story, which begins on page 10, features several of Scott’s photos (p. 11,

p. 13-inset, p. 14-bottom), as well as the work of WEL photographers Patrick

Hinely,’73, (p. 12, p. 13-top) and Taylor Crothers, ’93 (p. 14-top, p. 15).

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

A. Stevens Miles Jr. °51, Rector
John D. Wilson, President

COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY
BoarD

David M. Clinger, °55
Robert S. Keefe, ’68

Andrew H. McCutcheon, *48
Robert Mottley, ’64
Elizabeth Obenshain

Frank A. Parsons, ’54
Matthew W. Paxton, ’49
Sarah K. Wiant, ’78L

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Officers

J. Richard O’Connell, °56, *58L
President, Baltimore, Md.

Waller T. Dudley, °74, 79L
Vice President, Alexandria, Va.

James D. Farrar Jr., °74
Secretary and Director of Alumni Programs

Lexington, Va.

Robert W. H. Mish III, °76
Assistant Secretary, Lexington, Va.

Directors

Benjamin L. Bailey, °75
Charleston, W.Va.

William M. Bowen, ’61

Hilton Head Island, S8.C.

John A. Cocklereece Jr., °76, °79L,
Winston-Salem, N.C.

Virginia Bumgardner Garrison, ’*75L
Staunton, Va.

J. Michael Jenkins III, 64
Montgomery, Ala.

Robert S. Keefe, 68

New York, N.Y.

Charles T. McCord III, °63
Houston, Texas

Edward F. Meyers Jr., °61, °63L
Cleveland, Ohio

Michael G. Morgan, *68
Stamford, Conn.

Mason ‘I’. New, "62

Richmond, Va.

Henry (Skip) Nottberg III, °71
Kansas City, Mo.

William J. Russell Jr., °57
Matcern, Pa.

William E. Smith Jr., °63
Birmingham, Ala.

J. Frank Surface Jr., "60
Jacksonville, Fla.

J. E. Jet) Taylor III, °84

San Diego, Calif.

Michael ‘T. Thornton, °70, °78L
Atlanta, Ga.

H. William Walker Jr., °68, °71L
Miami, Fla.

Robert K. Wittpenn, *82

West Caldwell, NJ.

 

 

2 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

From the Alumni President

DEAR ALUMNI:

It is my pleasure to communi-
cate with the alumni body once
again. In this space, I intend to
follow up on my earlier discussion
about the many services available
to University alumni.

As I mentioned in the last
issue of the magazine, I believe
the state of the W&L Alumni
Association has never been
stronger. [he list of services
below certainly is evidence of
that. I think each of these pro-
grams provides an opportunity for
alumni to strengthen or reestab-
lish their ties with the University,
and it is in making use of these
programs that we strengthen the
University as a whole, as well.

As proud as we are of the
current students of Washington
and Lee, I think we can point
with even more pride to ourselves
as alumni and the services of the
Alumni Association. ‘Uhrough

these programs, we can help

 

 

continue to shape our University,
just as we helped shape its course
when we were students in Lex-
ington. Over the years, Washing-
ton and Lee has thrived ona
sense of unity and family. It is
important that we remember that
sense of community regardless of
how far removed from campus we
might be.

Please take advantage of the
programs listed below and feel
free to contact the Alumni Office
if you have any questions.

Sincerely,

J. Richard O'Connell, *56, *58L
President, W&L Alumni Association

 

ALUMNI
SERVICES

 

Organization—The Alumni Asso-
ciation is governed by a board of
directors comprising 20 members.
Directors serve four-year terms and
are nominated and elected each year
at the annual meeting of the Associa-
tion, which is held in May to coincide
with Reunion Weekend. Addition-
ally, graduates and former students
of W&L’s School of Law are orga-
nized in the dues-paying Law School
Association and are governed by a 23-
member (10 emeritus) Law Council.

The Alumni Office—A staff of
seven coordinates alumni activity on
campus and within 83 organized
chapters of alumni. Significant
campus activities for alumni include
the Athletic Hall of Fame induction
weekend, Homecoming, and
Reunion Weekend.

2 I LO

 

Alumni Chapters—Across the
country, 83 chapters have been
established because of the natural
bond W&L alumni have as a result
of their unique educational experi-
ence in Lexington. Alumni in these
chapters support W&L through a
variety of social events and programs
designed to enhance student
recruiting, career assistance, alumni
continuing education, two-way
communications with the University,
and the general promotion of W&L in

their communities.

Homecoming—Homecoming is for all

alumni, and you are welcomed and
encouraged to attend. During this
weekend, several distinct alumni
groups are invited to return to
campus, as well. In 1988, the Alumni
Office started a new tradition at
W&L, called the “Cluster Reunion.”
With hopes of attracting younger
alumni to campus during the fall, the
Alumni Staff invited the four most
recently graduated classes to parti-
cipate in Homecoming festivities.
‘The Five-Star Generals Reunion for
alumni who have been graduated for
50 or more years is an important part
of each Homecoming.

Reunion Weekend—Each spring,
the University welcomes back 10
classes for Reunion Weekend.
Beginning with the Five-Year
Reunion and continuing through a
class’s 50th Reunion, members of
both the undergraduate and law
classes are invited to return to cam-
pus for seminars, concerts, luncheons,

banquets, and class meetings.

Special Programs—If you think
your formal education ends when

you don a cap and gown, talk to the
staff in the Office of Special Pro-
grams. Each year the University
holds a number of week-long
seminars that focus participants on a
particular historical period, culture,
or other subject matter. Additionally,
the chapter seminar program brings
faculty speakers and intellectual
stimulation right to your home town.
‘The University also sponsors educa-
tional tours organized by professional
travel companies that have taken
alumni on a cruise aboard the Queen
Elizabeth II, and on trips to exotic
islands and historical countries. W&L
professors often accompany alumni
on these trips as guides. (See ad IBC)

Alumni Admissions Program—tn

the late 1970s, the University
established a process by which
alumni could formally identify strong
candidates for admission to W&L,
and today most chapters have strong
AAP networks. Supporting the idea
that no one can recruit students for
W&L better than former students,
representatives of the Admissions
Office once stated in a newsletter
that “discriminating reports from
individuals, especially alumni, who
know the applicant well are often
among the most important creden-
tials we receive.”

Alumni Career Assistance
Program—More than 700 alumni

in a variety of cities across the
country are ACAP volunteers.
Working together with the Office of
Career Development and Place-
ment, these individuals conduct
campus recruitment, sponsor
internships, review resumes, give
campus talks, list job vacancies, serve
as career advisers, conduct off-

eee

campus interviewing, and participate
in welcome networks for alumni who

are new to a particular locale.

Class Agents—Each undergraduate

and law class has a representative
called the Class Agent who works
with the Development Office in
encouraging classmates to support
the Annual Fund. ‘The importance of
your own annual contribution to the
Fund cannot be overemphasized.
Get in the habit of giving to W&L.

Alumni Directory—Every five

years, the Alumni Office publishes a
directory of Washington and Lee
alumni since the institution’s
founding in 1749. ‘The book contains
alphabetical, geographical and class
lists and includes business and home
addresses and phone numbers.

Missing Classmates—The Alumni

Office maintains a state-of-the-art
computer system for recording
alumni addresses and biographical
information. If you have a question
about the whereabouts of an alumnus
or alumna, call the Alumni Office at
(703) 463-8464. Also, if you change
your address or place of business, be
sure to contact the Alumni Office so
that our records will be current.

The Alumni House—Located next

to the Gilliam Admissions House,
this facility accommodates the staff
of the Alumni Office on the second
floor and also offers a reception area
for meetings and social events. ‘The
house is available to alumni and the
campus community for private

gatherings. For reservations, contact
the Alumni Office at (703) 463-8464.

A A TTT LES TT I ET A RTS IS Tea CT

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 3

é
7
c)
és
%
r
“
i
1m
%

 

nie and Mary Willi

 

 

 

Ns

by brian shaw

 

ERNIE WILLIAMS,
"38, a self-proclaimed
“Thirty-eighter Alli-
gator,” always has
been known to do
things with a flair. He is, quite simply,
a hard act to follow.

Indeed, few friends imagined that
he could ever top the memorable show
he choreographed to celebrate his
class’s 50th reunion in 1988. On that
bright spring day in May in Lee
Chapel, Williams and his classmate
Jack Neill announced the largest 50th
reunion class gift in the history of
Washington and Lee: $1,330,000 in
support of the Lenfest Center for the
Performing Arts. As co-chairman and

4 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

MAKING A

LASTING CONTRIBUTION TO
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

chief booster, Williams set a new level
for 50th reunion classes to follow.

Now, Williams has topped himself.

He and his wife Marjorie have made
a gift of $8.3 million to the University.
The Williamses have tentatively agreed
to allow a large portion of their gift to
address one of the critical needs outlined
in the University’s long-range plan: the
creation of a new or enlarged center for
student activities and campus life.

“The gift from Marjorie and Ernie

will have a tremendous impact on our

campus,” said
President John D.
Wilson. “Their
generosity will
help create a place
that will enhance life outside the class-
room for our students. In making this
gift, Marj and Ernie have touched the
lives of students and faculty for genera-
tions to come.”

‘The Williams’ gift is the second-
largest single gift ever made to Wash-
ington and Lee by a living alumnus.
Sydney and Frances Lewis of Richmond,
Va., gave $9 million to the University
for construction of a new law school in
1972, and they have since given an
additional $3 million to W&L.

 

“Marj and I have a great affection
for Washington and Lee and the influ-
ence it has had on our lives and the
lives of our children,” said Williams.
“This gift is a representation of what
W&L has meant to three generations
of the Williams family.”

A native of Lynchburg, Va., Ernie
came to Washington and Lee from
Augusta Military Academy. Although
his father attended W&L, Williams said
his family connection was not the real
reason he chose Washington and Lee.

Williams matriculated in the fall of
1934. He quickly immersed himself in
a variety of campus activities. He pledged
the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity and
signed up as a journalism major. Williams
was active in the Glee Club and was a
member of the first lacrosse team—a
club organization—at Washington and
Lee. He still vividly remembers

After the war, Williams went on
the road selling radios and televisions
for the Bendix Company. With the
post-war boom in full swing, Williams
remembers, “we were in a seller’s market,
which made it a lot of fun.”

‘The success in selling for Bendix

set a pattern that Williams was to follow

for the rest of his career. He began
selling municipal bonds for Scott, Horner
& Mason. His territory covered North
Carolina and West Virginia. “I almost
starved,” he recalled.

Williams then set up a mutual funds

department for Scott, Horner & Mason.

‘The department was such a success that
Williams was offered a wholesaling job
for Hugh Long, who managed Funda-
mental Investors and the Diversified
Funds. After two years, Incorporated
Investors of Boston came to Williams,

that a friend of his made a market in
Berkshire Hathaway, Buffet’s company.
Right after his 1978 class reunion,
Williams went to Omaha for the Berk-
shire Hathaway annual meeting, where
he met and had a conversation with
Buffet. After that meeting, he called
his office and arranged to buy as many
shares of Berkshire Hathaway that he
could find at $152. Williams continued
to buy the shares, acquiring the last group
at $1,300. Berkshire Hathaway stock
today has the highest value of any stock
traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
Another foresighted decision by
Marj and Ernie was to purchase several
lots in Hilton Head Island, S.C., in the
late 1950s. ‘The Williamses and their
three children, Ernest III, °67, ‘Tracy,
and Marjorie, made annual trips to the
island for vacations. Ernie commuted to
Hilton Head on the weekends

 

a 36-0 drubbing at the hands of
the University of Maryland “B”
‘Team.

Although Williams’ sched-
ule was always full with one thing
or another, he recalls life at Wash-
ington and Lee in the mid-1930s
as being “pretty uncomplicated.”

“Between the dances, the
parties at the fraternity house,
and the many other things that
seemed to occupy our time, we
didn’t think much about life out-
side of Washington and Lee,” he
said. “It was a wonderful time to
be here.”

After graduating in 1938,
Williams signed on with the
Lynchburg News as a proofreader.
After a few months, Williams
decided journalism was not the
career for him.

“Itinterfered with my court-
ing,” he said.

He then began work in the insurance
business that lasted until 1942 when he
volunteered for the Navy. He ended
up as a lieutenant commander. In 1940,
Williams married Marjorie Owen, a
young woman from Lynchburg he had
known since they were first-graders
together in Mrs. Ayers’ school.

 

made him vice president, and gave him
the same job he had with Hugh Long.
Williams moved to the Mason & Lee

brokerage house in Lynchburg in 1959
and retired as president in 1970.

In the October 1977 issue of Fortune,
Williams read an article about a man in
Omaha, Neb., named Warren Buffet.
Williams noticed in the “pink sheets”

to join his family in the plane he
learned to pilot.

In 1969, Ernie acceded to
Marj’s lifetime dream, and they
opened an antique shop, Binnacle
Inc. “Everybody said, “You'll go
broke, nobody in Hilton Head
wants to buy antiques,’ ” Williams
said. “They were right, nobody
from Hilton Head did buy—at
first. But the people from Con-

 

necticut and other places who
came to Hilton Head bought. Marj
and I would go on buying trips
to New England, bring the pieces
back to Hilton Head, and sell
them to folks from New England.

“We had a lot of fun going
on buying trips and meeting
people.”

‘The Williamses gave up
the shop in 1981 and moved to
Florida in 1985. Although they
loved Hilton Head, it had simply
become too big and overcrowded for
their liking. ‘They have recently
finished construction of a new home in
Cashiers, N.C., and they divide their
time between there and Village of Golf,
Fla.

After his retirement, Williams also
found time to get involved as a volun-

WA&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 5

 
 

toting alligator book bags. An in-
flatable alligator that Neill had
found in a movie theater that
was showing “Crocodile
Dundee” was tethered to Old

teer for Washington and Lee. He
served as class agent for his class from
1976 to 1979. He resumed the role in
1986 and continues in the position today,
also serving as vice chairman of the

Annual Fund. He and Marj also regu-
larly attend the W&L Alumni College
in the summer.

Williams’ most memorable role as a
W&L volunteer came as co-chairman of
that famous Class of ’38 50th reunion in
1988. He and fellow chairman Jack Neill
knew they needed a symbol to inspire
enthusiasm among classmates for the
gift project. With the help of a Hilton
Head friend who had designed the Jolly
Green Giant character, Williams came
up with the alligator—“a lascivious-
looking alligator,” as he puts it.

Using the alligator as a rallying
point, Williams created an atmosphere
of excitement that had not been seen at
previous reunions. ‘The members of
the class were all over campus, wearing

George atop Washington
Hall, and it floated serenely
in the brilliant, blue spring
sky that Saturday morning
of the reunion weekend.
The cry of “thirty-eighter
alligator!” echoed through
Lee Chapel as Williams and
his classmates announced
their $1.3 million gift.

“That gift was a tremen-
dous source of pride for our
class,” Williams said. “It
showed how we really feel
about W&L.”

Indeed, the $8.3 mil-
lion gift of Marj and Ernie
Williams shows how they
really feel about W&L, too.

their alligator golf hats and their wives

 

 

 

The Williams’ Gift

s a result of several conversations with Ernie and Marjorie
Williams and their accountant, it became clear that they had two very different
philanthropic and financial needs that could be addressed through planned
gifts. Though these “needs” might seem to be at odds with each other, two
different arrangements were tailored to accomplish their financial objectives
while simultaneously enhancing the University’s economic future.
The Williamses owned a sizable block of stock in a corporation that had
never paid a dividend. As a result, they had very large capital gains, but no

 

income from these assets. Their first objective was to generate a life income
from their assets through a gift to W&L. By transferring half of these highly appreciated assets to a charitable remainder unitrust,
they were able to avoid the capital gains tax altogether. Therefore, they could put the full market value of the assets to work to
generate a new income for them. In addition, they received a handsome federal income tax deduction that they could utilize in the
year they made their gift and for up to five years thereafter.

The Williams’ other financial need was to be able to convey assets to their children with minimal tax consequences. Using the
remaining assets in this corporation, they established a non-grantor charitable lead annuity trust. This arrangement provides for the
payment of a fixed income to Washington and Lee for a finite period of time. The trust corpus is designated to go to their children at
the end of that finite period. Aside from generating a truly significant income stream for the University, the arrangement ensures
that the Williams’ children receive a magnificent benefaction with little or no tax consequences either to them or to Ernie and Marjorie.

The unitrust and the lead trust were developed with people like the Williamses in mind. Using conservative projections, the total
value of their gifts to the University will exceed $8.3 million. W&L will have received a magnificent gift, and Ernie and Marjorie will
have increased income and many income tax and estate tax benefits for themselves, and greater financial security for their children.

Truly, it is a win-win situation for all.

David R. Long, Director of Planned Giving

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 
    
    

Students develop an “under-
standing of scientific inquiry”
in the chemistry lab (above),
and in the biology lab (right),
where Professor John Knox
helps his class through the
dissection of a fetal pig.

As growth and interest

increase on a national scale,

W&L remains dedicated

to the sciences

~" Better

Scientists

 

by william cocke, ’82

Some of the biology department’s
best laboratory space is located in the
attic of Parmly Hall. Just be sure to
watch your head while you're up there.

Until recently,
the chemistry depart-
ment was still using
outmoded Bunsen
burners in the lab
instead of the electric
heating mantles
that had been the
accepted standard.

And Sarah
Allen, ’90, remem-

 

bers the days when
she used a coffee
pot as a spare part
in a chemistry
research project.

 

Allen, who ts
half-way through her second year of the
Ph.D. program in organic chemistry at
Duke, says what the chemistry depart-
ment lacked in equipment, however, was
more than made up for by the quality
of the teaching
she received.
“The teachers
in the chemistry
department at
W&L were very
accessible to
me,” Allen says
during a break
from school.
“Without fail,
they were there for all of their students,
and I mean non-chemistry majors, too.
We used to have weekly seminar sessions
where we had to get up and describe
what we were working on at the time.

“It was good preparation for the
rigors of graduate school and it made us
chemistry majors very close.”

‘That’s what the sciences at W&L
are all about, and Allen is typical of the
science graduates at Washington and
Lee. Bright, dedicated, and motivated,
they have worked in the cramped labs
and classrooms of Howe and Parmly,
learning science and building founda-
tions for bright futures.

Washington and Lee has long
prided itself on the hands-on oppor-
tunities afforded its students, and the
sciences have provided plenty of prime
examples. Indeed, the University’s
mission statement calls for students to
develop a “mastery of the rudiments of
mathematical reasoning and under-
standing of the nature of scientific
inquiry” and stresses the need to offer
“undergraduate preparation in the arts
and sciences of the highest possible
quality (italics added).”

As Allen indicated, every student

at Washington and Lee is touched by

the sciences. All students are required
to complete 10 credits in science and
mathematics, including at least four
credits of a laboratory science. ‘he
sciences at W&L seem to be a growing
outlet for the inquiring minds of the
typical W&L students. As problems of
the environment become more acute,
the dedicated and motivated students
that come to W&L are looking to find
ways to improve the world around them.
‘The sciences provide that opportunity.
With the words of the mission
statement and the rapid growth and
interest in the sciences on a national
scale in mind, the University is studying

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

its commitment to the sciences. ‘The

goal is to produce more Sarah Allens.
‘To do that, many science professors
say, some changes in the physical plant
will have to be made. What won’t need
to change is the quality of instruction.

Biology major Robert Manson, ’89,
working on a master’s in ecology at
Rutgers, has found his W&L science
preparation very valuable.

“In graduate school, it’s sometimes
difficult even arranging an appointment
with your advisor, so you realize how
the small class size and personal attention
at W&L can be an advantage,” he says.

‘Tom Boyd, ’87, who is studying for
his Ph.D. in marine microbiology at the
Scripps Institute, says what prepared him
most for graduate work was the upper
level laboratory classes at W&L.

“W&L gave me an excellent
background in, and overview of,
research techniques and what’s
involved in those processes,”
he said. “In graduate level
sciences you are primarily
done with course work. It’s
the lab work that you really
have to be ready for, and, in
that respect, W&L does a
good job of preparing stu-
dents for graduate study.”

‘To continue to do that
job well, W&L continually
evaluates its methods, and
the University’s Institutional
Long-Range Plan calls for a
major commitment to the
sciences in the coming years.
The improvement of class-
room and laboratory space,
money for equipment acqui-
sition, and expanded recruit-
ment of science students, are
components of this plan.
Improvements to the physical
plant were a high priority, and included
among the suggestions is the construc-
tion of a new science wing between
venerable old Howe and Parmly.

Of the two science buildings on the
Washington and Lee campus, Parmly
(which biology shares with physics) is
29 years old, and Howe (where the

8 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

geology and chemistry departments are
located) is 67 years old. ‘The psychology
department and its laboratory space are
mixed in with the foreign languages in
‘Tucker Hall, while mathematics and
computer science are in Robinson.

It is a fact that neither Parmly nor
Howe, as they stand now, are adequate
in terms of space or condition. ‘The
scattering of departments, professors
say, further hampers the efficient use of
expensive equipment that is better
utilized in a central location.

Howe, and even Parmly, were de-
signed and built before the rapid and
extraordinary changes that have swept
all the sciences in the last 20 years. ‘The
advent of the microcomputer alone a
little over a decade ago has revolution-
ized all aspects of life, the sciences in
particular. ‘leaching and research on
the undergraduate level are reaching
new levels of sophistication almost daily.

 

As interest in the sciences increases, so does the number of students
working in the laboratory space in Howe and Parmly halls.

The blurring of interdisciplinary bound-
aries in the areas of biochemistry, bio-
physics, and the growing interest in en-
vironmental studies, all point to the need
for new and better facilities, equipment,
and space.

And yet, W&L’s current commit-
ment to the sciences presses on. The

opportunities continue to exist at W&L,
both for the students and for the profes-
sors who teach them. Biology, chemis-
try, physics, geology, psychology, and
mathematics are alive and well at W&L.
Stull, in this rapidly changing field, W&L’s
scientists do their groundbreaking work
in buildings that have remained rela-
tively unchanged over the years.

“The sciences are in buildings that
have not seen substantial renovations in
almost 30 years, so in those terms we
are in two of the oldest buildings on
campus,” said H. ‘Thomas Williams,
professor of physics. “In the last few
years, there has been a huge change in
the amount of research activity taking
place by students and faculty. ‘Teach-
ing and the equipment that goes along
with it requires more space than ever.
We are literally bulging at the seams.”

Howe and Parmly halls, inadequate
as they are in many ways, are still quite
good facilities, says Williams,
and with renovation will
serve for many years to come,
It is when this lack of space
forces you to start saying no
to new equipment acquisi-
tions that you run into
problems, says Williams.

It would be a mistake,
however, to assume that the
sciences are floundering at
W&L these days. ‘There is
excitement about new science
faculty members, who recharge
the batteries of their peers, as
well as their students. ‘Those
students are extremely dedi-
cated and many times move
on to excellent graduate
programs, medical schools,
and careers in the sciences.

Over and over again, one
hears about the increasing
importance of interdisciplinary studies.
Professor of geology Ed Spencer says
that the popularity of environmental
studies relating to geology has led to
one of the largest numbers of geology
majors ever. Geology classes can now
be designed for preparation in environ-
mental law, for example.

 

In the chemistry department, Pro-
fessor Mike Pleva explains that a “chaos
lab” examining non-linear dynamic sys-
tems, designed by assistant professor of
chemistry Steven Desjardins, may be
the only one in the country used in an
undergraduate course. A computer
cluster allows Desjardins to perform the
tremendous number of calculations
needed to produce simulations (“You
need at least 20,000 calculations to get
anything,” says Pleva). Needless to say,
the mathematics de-
partment uses the
chaos lab, and Pleva
says that its applica-
tions cross all disci-
plines, including eco-
nomics, politics, and
biology.

‘The most recent
and sophisticated
piece of equipment
in the chemistry de-
partment is a mass
spectrometer. “This
is state-of-the-art ‘in’
technology and a must
these days for students
going on to advanced graduate work,”
Pleva says. A mass spectrometer allows
one to take a very complex sample and
break it down into its component parts.

Professor of psychology Len Jarrard
says the most exciting development in
his department is a new interdisciplinary
course in neuroscience that began in
the fall of 1991.

“The area draws heavily from
biology, chemistry, and mathematics,”
says Jarrard. “There is quite a bit of
interest among, the students and faculty.
With 13 students already signed up, I
predict that this course will be ex-
tremely popular.”

In biology, the same need for space
that caused the department to create
labs in the attic means that the depart-
mental library has to be located in the
University Library, according to profes-
sor of biology Thomas Nye. The
creation of a new science building would
allow the biology department more
space to expand inside a newly reno-

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  

 

While the work being done in
the laboratory rooms of Howe
Hallhas changed dramati-
cally from 193 1 (above) to
1991 (left), the labs themselves

remain relatively the same.

vated Parmly Hall—and preferably out
of the attic.

However, Nye says that in the last
three years, the department has seen
the addition of two excellent scientists
and teachers—Marianne Simurda in im-
munology and Darcy Russell in genetics
and molecular genetics—both of whom
are actively engaged in research in their
respective fields. Nye also points out
that W&L is part of the Marine Science
Education Consortium with Duke Uni-
versity. ‘his program makes it possible
for W&L biology majors to spend one
fall term at the Duke University Marine
Laboratory in Beaufort, N. C. In addi-
tion, spring field trips to the desert
Southwest and the Galapagos Islands
remain popular outlets for student
research.

The geology department has risen
to national prominence through its
participation in the Keck Consortium, a
select group of 12 national liberal arts
institutions. ‘he goal of the consor-

tium is to bridge the gap between
course work and research for under-
graduates, since students who are
exposed to research during their college
years often go on to earn doctorates.

“Our involvement in the Keck
Consortium has been a very positive
experience for us,” says Samuel J.
Kozak, professor of geology. “Its scope
makes it one of the best research grants
in the country.”

Physics professor Williams says
that in his department, assistant
professor Ken Van Ness is doing
exciting work in polymer research.

“Ken is taking dead-end plastics,
recycling them and turning them into
useful materials. ‘They can be turned
into a lumber-like material that is sur-
prisingly strong. He uses the electron
microscope to examine its mechanical
properties and its elasticity,” Williams
says, pointing out however that the
electron microscope is across the way
and down the stairs in Howe Hall.

In short, the science departments
are putting out work in quantities and
in quality that belie the state of the
facilities. “They are also producing
students that have a firm commitment
to becoming doctors, biologists, and
chemists. ‘The potential for Washing-
ton and Lee to take more of a leading
role in terms of science work among
national liberal arts universities is a goal
worth attaining, Williams says.

“Science is the other half of the
liberal arts education,” says Williams.
“I firmly believe that if W&L enhances
its capability in the sciences it will have
a snowball effect. We could double our
real science majors—those who go on
to graduate work in biology, chemistry,
physics-engineering, and mathemat-
ics—with no trouble at all. A new
building, in particular, besides serving
as a working facility, would be a symbol
of W&L’s committment to the sciences
and to the future.

“The way things are going, there
will be a serious shortfall of scientists in
the United States soon. Washington
and Lee could be a major contributor to
the solution to this problem.”

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

 

 

 

 

FRATERNITY RENAISSANCE

A Change from Within

by mike stachura, 86

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| | hen you walk into the main sitting room of

one of the newly renovated fraternity houses at Wash-

 

ington and Lee, you are left dumbstruck by the conver-
sion—particularly if your vision of a fraternity house is

one that has been shaped in the last 20 years. Where

 

 

 

10 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

dingy, rotting floorboards and fire-sale modular furniture
used to be, there now appear Oriental rugs, finely up-

holstered sofas, and even a decorative houseplant or two.

‘The outsides of these buildings, which at times
looked like sections of bombed out Dresden even
before the fraternity renaissance construction began,
now are architectural showpieces, almost evoking an
aura of majesty. You are left with the impression in any
case that what you see is a home, a place where people
live, and live nicely.

Anyone who has been paying attention to Washing-
ton and Lee University and its Fraternity Renaissance
Program knows about this $13 million physical transfor-

 

Music and dancing remain the standard for parites, like these at Pi
Kappa Alpha (top) and Phi Delta Theta (bottom), but fraternities
have to provide more than social outlets, says Murphy (p. 13, inset).

mation of the houses. What they don’t know is that
iraternity renaissance isn’t about money, and it isn’t
about new buildings. It is ultimately about the men who

occupy those buildings.

An overflowing crowd gathered in Red Square
between the Phi Delta ‘Theta and Sigma Nu houses to
dedicate the Franternity Renaissance Program during
Homecoming Weekend in October. Standing between
the two rebuilt and refurbished homes, President John
D. Wilson told his audience of how he was reminded of
the Platonic doctrine about the soul creating the vessel
in which it is housed. Solid homes merely reflect the
solidity of the fraternity ideal.

“The soul of the fraternity system at Washington
and Lee and now its exterior are being brought into
harmony,” he said. “I strongly believe that university
values and fraternity ideals are not in conflict, that they
are complimentary and can be made to bring strength
one to the other.

“It is in the intersection of those values and ideals
that we celebrate and dedicate ourselves today. We’re
dedicating not the restored buildings, but the ideal of
fraternity life that they will help to realize.”

While it may be difficult not to be
overwhelmed by the new fraternity
houses and the pricetag of the Fraternity
Renaissance Program, it is perhaps even
more startling to understand the attitudi-
nal change that must take place for the
program to succeed. At its foundation, fraternity
renaissance means a fundamental transformation for the
non-classroom life of the typical Washington and Lee
student. It is a risk, and as with any risk, there is a certain
degree of apprehension. And yet, people try not to
speak about failure with this program. It has been built
around an unwavering faith in Washington and Lee, its
tradition, and its people. It is the reaffirmation of an
ideal, the belief in a paradigm way of college life, and, as
Lexington Mayor H.E. “Buddy” Derrick said in his
Fraternity Renaissance Dedication address, it requires

 

WA&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

11

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

an almost superhuman supply of “vision, courage, and
determination” to carry out such a program.

Col. Paul J.B. Murphy, °49, describes that fraternity
ideal this way: “The definition of fraternity is an associ-
ation of individuals who find that they have some mutual
goals, who have a comfortableness with the other
individuals in the organization,” he says. “It’s a place
where a person newly arrived on campus can find some
refuge and can find some help and guidance, and whose
principles he believes in and adheres to and helps to
achieve. It’s a family attachment that builds up, a home.”

Murphy stands as one of the founding fathers of the
fraternity renaissance program, along with men like
Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins, *68, associate dean of students
for Greek Affairs; J. Thomas ‘Vouchton, ’61, trustee and
chairman of the campus life committee; and Edward L.
Bishop, ’68, former president of the Alumni Fraternity
Council. All of these men saw what fraternities had
become. ‘They knew what fraternities could and should
be, and their vision is at the core of this revitalization.

Murphy was part of the house corporation that
brought about the rechartering of W&L’s Sigma Nu
chapter in 1983 after its disasterous decline had left it
with its charter suspended and its fraternity de-
recognized. The fraternity renaissance program took its
vision, its courage, and its determination from him as he
served as past president of the Alumni Fraternity
Council and chairman of the Fraternity Renaissance
Steering Committee. He has seen this fraternity ideal
lost, and he is seeing it slowly regained.

“I began to feel that fraternities had abrogated their
real reason for existence because they no longer provided
that element of service to the community,” he said.
“They had reverted to almost 100 percent devotion to
the social life, but I think things are coming back around.

“The program is sometimes seen only in the
outward appearance of the buildings, and that was only
part of what we set out to achieve. We really want a
renaissance within the chapters, a reexamination of what
is fraternity life.”

‘The thinking of Murphy and others like Atkins,
Bishop, and ‘Vouchton forced the University and its
students to evaluate Washington and Lee’s fraternity life.
‘These men remembered the fraternity system as being
closely intertwined with the ideals of Washington and
Lee student life. ‘hose ideals were slipping, and an
overhaul was desperately needed, or an obituary for
fraternities might soon be written. With the widespread
elimination of house mothers in the early 1970s, fraterni-
ties fell into disrepair, not merely in a physical sense but
in a spiritual sense, too. ‘That concept of community,
even within a house itself, seemed non-existent.

Atkins, associate dean of students for Greek affairs,
remembers the rapid deterioration during the 1970s.

“It’s a false notion that the fraternity decline was a
gradual process,” he said. “With the removal of the
house mothers and other controls and constraints, things
fell apart rapidly. We had untrained, inexperienced kids
with no guidance running houses. It was very much like
Lord of the Flies.”

‘Truth be told, the movie Avima/ House might have
played as a documentary at W&L. Larry Honig, °70,
writing about the demise of the Kappa Alpha house in a
1971 WEL article, said, “The smell of the Kappa Alpha
house [in 1966] will not soon leave me, the smell I
inhaled richly at my first rush party: fresh paint, ciga-
rettes, aftershave. When I left the KA house in 1970, it
smelled of mildew and bare wood floors and stale
kitchen grease.”

And that was merely a beginning. ‘Though the frater-
nity system rode the roller coaster of highs and lows,
inevitably the spiral was downward. As the decade of
the 1980s began, the Board of ‘Trustees began to peer
into fraternities more and more, and its concern grew.

‘Touchton, who was a member of the Alumni Board
of Directors in the mid-1970s and since has served on
the Campus Life Committee of the Board of ‘Trustees,
explained this growing concern.

“We had been very upset about what was happen-
ing to the fraternities as far back as the mid-1970s,” he

 

 

12 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

said. “When we began to study the fraternities, there
was no interest in shutting them down. There was a
favorable view of how they could function. We realized,
as well, that we had to approach this from a fraternity-
wide basis and not deal with individual fraternities.”

What ultimately grew as a result of this concern was
the Standards for Fraternities, a document adopted by
the University in 1987. ‘The standards set forth operat-
ing guidelines that defined the privileges and responsi-
bilities of the fraternity houses.

Four years after the publication of those standards,
the fraternity system has beautiful new houses. It
remains to be seen how strong the spiritual foundation
for these physical structures will be. ‘There are many
indications that progress is being made, and yet there are
indications, as well, that some flaws remain.

urphy has said that “Wash-
ington and Lee without fraternities would

be a changed Washington and Lee.” With
more than 80 percent of the freshman men pledging
fraternities this year, many students would share his
view, as well. However, there is a view in academia that
fraternities are an anachronism, that they are elitist, and
that they no longer are a working part of the educational
process.

Many colleges are disassociating themselves from
fraternities. Middlebury College has forced all of its
fraternities to begin accepting women or to be shut
down. Franklin & Marshall College’s Board of Trustees
recently voted to de-recognize its fraternities, citing the
social irresponsibility of fraternities and their general
incompatibility to the academic mission of an institution.

David L. Howison, dean of students at W&L and a
successful administrator in the revitalization of the frater-
nity system at St. Lawrence University, explains the
view of many in the anti-fraternity camp.

“There was an
understandable insis-

tence among faculty ,

that academic integ- eo
. . . : ap

rity and an academic alas fee

environment were the

most important qualities of a liberal arts college,” he
said. “They identified fraternities as antithetical to the
academic enterprise. And what they saw often justified
that view.”

Bishop, who was instrumental in the rebuilding of
the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity house both in a physical
and a spiritual sense, has heard those doubts before, and
he had an answer for them in his address at the Frater-
nity Renaissance Dedication.

“There are people who question the efficacy of com-
mitting such a huge amount of treasure to an enterprise so
far removed from the halls of academia,” he said. “But
it’s not really. ‘The university experience is more broad
than that. It involves enlarging one’s understanding of
group dynamics, of politics, of leadership. And I submit
to you that there is no better place to acquire those
educational values than in a well-run fraternity house.”

But then, that is the question, isn’t it? Can you have
a model fraternity system simply by providing physically
impressive homes for its members? Well, the answer
seems to be no...and yes. ‘The new houses certainly
help, but it is important to remember that if fraternity
renaissance is to be successful, new houses are only a
beginning. Senior Greg Hicks, current president of the
Interfraternity Council, explains.

“Renovated houses and new courtyards are only
part of the changes our system will need to grow
stronger,” he said in his remarks at the dedication cere-
mony. “The Interfraternity Council’s role is to see to it
that we just don’t experience a superficial change, but a
change from within, as well. ‘The fraternity members
must rededicate themselves to the survival of the system.
Some traditional behavior must change, a newfound
respect for the houses must be incorporated, and new

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

13

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

guidelines and regulations have to be made.”

Such change does not come about easily. Anima/
House behavior still rears its head. Last year, two
members of Phi Kappa Psi and one member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon were suspended for the winter term by
President Wilson for throwing bottles through windows
at the Phi Psi house and through the window of the
housemother’s suite at SAE. ‘The suspension still is
being bandied about in some circles, and it leaves little
doubt that student behavior will not spontaneously change.

‘The outlandish activities this year at lear Night give
pause to even the strongest proponents of fraternity renais-
sance. When several students

contributing members of the W&L community—and
there is no reason that cannot be so.”

Indeed, as the decade of the 90s begins, there is
much more cause for hope than dismay. ‘There is a faith
that fraternities will be strong places at W&L, and that
faith is strengthened with each new freshman class.

“Students are a lot more idealistic than they were 10
years ago,” Atkins says. “In most of the houses now, the
majority of the guys in the houses have seen the differ-
ence, and they don’t want to go back to the way it was.”

Certainly, the reinstitution of house mothers has
been a key building block in the attempted return to

normalcy. “Just having that

 

wound up in the Stonewall Jackson
Hospital emergency room because
of party-related injuries that night,
members of the administration
quickly voiced their concern and
disappointment.

And yet, while they are disap-
pointed, the leaders say they are
not discouraged. ‘louchton’s re-
marks in a 1989 speech in Lee
Chapel seem to reflect the prevail-
ing concern and hope of those be-
hind fraternity renaissance.

“About 14 years ago, the
Alumni Board was so disgusted
with the appearance of fraterni-
ties and the behavior of its
members that it suggested to the
Board of ‘Trustees that they
‘clean them up or shut them
down,’ ” he said then. “Fraterni-
ties too often represent the worst
that is found at W&L, whereas
there is no reason they cannot

 

represent the best—and already
do in some cases. If we are going to have fraternities

and sororities at W&L, they are going to be positive and

 

Parties include the Kappa Sigma house opening (top) and
Sigma Nu’s casino night (bottom); but fraternity life also
is the quiet of the living room at Pi Kappa Alpha (p. 15).

adult influence helps give them
a greater sense of the price you
have to pay for your actions,”
Atkins said. “The house mothers
are kind of a last line of civiliza-
tion, and they've been very
important in this.”

 

Murphy explains that the
fraternity system, while in place
for students, can only be sup-
ported through a combined
effort of all constituencies: the
University administration, the
national fraternity headquarters,
the students themselves, and
most importantly, the alumni.
“Now, unless you can get those
four constituencies working to-
gether, and each playing their
roles, you’re in trouble,” Murphy
said. “It’s just like a chair with

a

four legs. If one of the legs isn’t
there, it’s going to tip over.”
And, he points out, the leg
that requires the most support
is the students. Yet, that is where the blame falls when

anything goes wrong. With nurturing and support, the

 

 

14 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE .

 

_

 

 

 

 

 

 

students have the opportunity to make the fraternity

system stronger than it ever was. Howison, whose daily
business is the life of Washington and Lee students, says
there is hope, there is reason for confidence.

“| have tremendous confidence in the students in
this enterprise,” he says. “When students are given
greater responsibility, they will rise to the occasion.”

Howison says the tradition of student self-governance
at Washington and Lee makes the fraternity renaissance
program especially challenging. It is not going to succeed
with “the administration standing there saying, “Do this
and do that,’ ” he says.

Stull, that traditional W&L student liberty allows for
student criticism. With fraternity renaissance at its
midpoint, there have been a number of missteps,
rumblings and grumblings that have arisen at times
because of the strong presence of student self-gover-
nance. According to recent articles in several campus
publications, students have voiced their displeasure with
the rules governing behavior in the houses, with the
high cost of house maintenance plans, and with the
various small problems in the construction and interior
decorating in the renovated houses.

‘The complaints cannot be ignored, and they are not
being ignored, but the importance of the entire plan
can't get lost in the process, either, Atkins said.

“There are some things we would have done dif-
ferently with our 20-20 hindsight, no question about it,”
he said. “But in terms of what we’re trying to do here, I
wouldn’t say, ‘Let’s not do this thing,’ because of any-
thing that’s gone wrong.”

One area in particular that will require special at-
tention is alcohol consumption. Fraternity parties con-
tinue to revolve around alcohol despite the raising of the
drinking age to 21 in the last decade. Students continue
to roll the dice, sometimes with their lives, by consum-
ing too much alcohol and having little interest in con-
trolling that drinking. Alcohol-related incidents continue
to occur on campus. Director of Security Michael Young
told The Ring-tum Phi in October that he was “surprised

at the number of people who walk around at night in a
state of intoxication.”

Changes are being made. ‘There is a ban on kegs,
and gone are the days of bathtubs full of grain alcohol.
‘There are guest lists for parties, and certainly the
presence of a house mother is again another element of
control that has been lacking. However, there must be a
change in attitude to meet this problem effectively.

“We have an obligation to provide reasonable guide-
lines that understand and respect the law and do every-
thing possible to prevent abusive behavior,” Howison
said. “Ihe key is not so much the specific behavior, as
much as the establishment of an environment that pro-
motes the idea that frankly, if you’re going to drink,
drink responsibly. ‘That’s the message that the fraterni-
ties need to embrace. ‘They should do everything in
their power to create an environment that’s fun and
responsible.”

Again, Howison ts talking about the idea of self-
governance. Eventually, the University will have to put
its faith to the test. As Howison says, “Self-governance
without accountability is not self-governance.”

But Howison, like everyone leading the fraternity
renaissance program, has real confidence in the students.
“The strength of the leadership of the students is so
extraordinary here,” he says. “It’s the best that I’ve ever
seen at any institution that I’ve ever been involved with.”

His belief that the students will rise to the occasion
is what causes him and others to hope for the reinstitu-
tion of the ideals of fraternity life. His vision is one of
the fraternity system at Washington and Lee being indi-
cative of all that is good and right about the University.

“One of the messages that I keep conveying to
students is that W&L should be recognized as the finest
fraternity system in America, period,” Howison says.
“To see an evaluation of Washington and Lee in some
assessment of the best schools in America, and to have
the fraternity system cited as being consistent with our
history and tradition and enhancing the overall experi-
ence, that is the ultimate goal.”

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

1S

16

From the kitchen of:
MRS. ROBERT E. LEE

 

When Robert
EK. Lee came home
from his office at
Washington Col-
lege, he likely sat
down to a meal of
gumbo, chicken
terrapin, sweet-
meat pudding, and
Mrs. Maury’s

 

 

some of the names
in Mrs. Lee’s journal
and by having the
handwriting samples
identified by li-
brarians at W&L, the
Virginia Historical
Society, the F.B.L,
and others who about

 

the Lee family.

 

muffin bread.
‘Today, these

and other favorite

Lee family dishes

Anne Wilson, (left) wife of President Wilson: Anne Zimmer: and Adelaide
Simpson taste test a 1991 version of Mrs Maury’s muffin bread.

With an abun-
dance of material in
the W&L archives,
and the enthusiastic

are being re-created in modern kitchens, BY EVAN support of local residents, the cookbook has
thanks to the efforts of Anne Zimmer, a great- ATKINS become a kind of community project. It ts

grandaughter of Robert and Mary Custis Lee,
who ts testing these recipes for a forthcoming cookbook
featuring her great-grandmother’s cooking secrets.

Mrs. Lee’s recipes, or “receipts” as they were called
then, were recorded in a well-worn ledger of 119 pages,
which is currently in the Lee Collection at the Virginia
Historical Society. ‘These handwritten receipts had been
collected by Mrs. Lee from friends and relatives and were
copied down, either in her own hand or in the script of
friends and family members.

More than seven years ago, Mrs. Zimmer, a native of
Richmond, Va., who now lives in Upperville, Va., obtained a
photocopy of her great-grandmother’s ledger. A gourmet
cook herself, as well as a free-lance writer, Mrs. Zimmer
decided to combine her talents and write the cookbook,
bringing Mrs. Lee’s receipts up to date for modern cooking
techniques. Her book will also give revealing glimpses
into the Lee’s domestic and social life.

“After the Civil War, those Southern women who
had been brought up to run plantations were having to
take on more direct domestic responsibilities,” said Mrs.
Zimmer. “Though the Lees still had servants when they
lived in Lexington, there was a shortage of trained help,
and even more critical, a shortage of food.”

When she came to Lexington to do research for her
book, Mrs. Zimmer found that most of the recipes were
collected during the time the Lees lived at Washington
and Lee. Researchers confirmed local connections through

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

understandable that those associated with

Washington and Lee would get excited about it —
anything to do with Robert E. Lee and his family is of
great interest to those at the University. And in the small
community of Lexington, where local citizens enthusi-
astically support historic preservation projects, events of
the 19th century are often of much more interest than the
current day-to-day events of a college town of 4,500 residents.

In her quest for “test cooks” for Mrs. Lee’s recipes,
Mrs. Zimmer solicited the assistance of Adelaide Simpson,
Lexington’s “kitchen guru,” who recruited 25 local
women to test approximately 35 of the recipes. With her
usual thoroughness, Mrs. Simpson recruited not only the
town’s most talented cooks, but those who were in some
way connected to the ladies in Mrs. Lee’s ledger, as well.
Almost all have affiliations with W&L or are parishioners
of Robert E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church, formerly
Grace Episcopal Church, where the Lees worshiped.

Each cook was instructed to prepare one or two dishes,
following the recipes and methods as closely as possible
using modern equipment. After sampling each dish, she
was to freeze the remainder for further testing, After an
honest evaluation of the results, the recipe could be
altered slightly to improve it, keeping a careful record of
any changes. A sample of the second preparation was also to
be frozen for further evaluation.

On Friday, Sept. 27, Mrs. Zimmer, her husband
Fred, and Agnes Mullins, curator of Arlington House, the

ii meee ia i i it

iia a aia eae

 

 

birthplace of Lee, arrived at R.E. Lee’s Parish
Hall for a “tasting party.” Mrs. Simpson and
her crew of “test cooks” presented Mrs. Lee’s
dishes for all to sample. As television cameras
rolled and news reporters from nearby cities
recorded the event, Robert E. Lee’s favorite
dishes were served in Lexington again, 125
years later.

And how did the original recipes taste?
Many were, well, delicious, and then, some were,
well, definitely improved upon by contemporary
cooks. Some desserts from the 19th century were

 

Mrs. Letcher's Egg Nog

10 eggs Rum
1 (6. sugar 2 qts. whole milk.
French brandy

NOTES: The original recipe calls for the cook to “beat the yolks of 10
eqgs very light,” then add the sugar, then “stir in slowly two tumblers
of French brandy and one-quarter tumbler of rum and add two quarts
of new milk,” Then its says, ‘last, the whites (of the eqgs) beaten
light.” A tumbler is believed to be about eight ounces. “New” milk.
is just regular whole milk, Cooks said that this tasted better if the eqg
nog sat in the refrigerator for two or three days.

 

 

judged to be far better in 1870 than they are now.

 

Mrs. Zimmer said progress has been most
difficult on cakes, but she said there have been
many successes. Mrs. Letcher’s egg nog, one of the most
popular (and highly-spirited) items offered at the tasting,
drew this comment from one taste-tester. “Mrs. Letcher
obviously was an Episcopalian.” Mrs. Zimmer noted that it
was much better than the milk punches she used to drink
on Sunday mornings when she was a young guest at the
University of Virginia. One of Mrs. Lee’s original recipes for
corn muffins, deemed a little heavy for modern tastes, was
judged to “keep a soldier fed for half a week.”

But most of the recipes were very good. “The longer
preparation times of breads made them taste better,” said
Mrs. Simpson. ‘They had a very fine texture, probably
because homemade yeasts and overnight rising periods
produced finer doughs than those used in bread-baking

today. Lard, one of the most common ingredients in
19th-century cooking, gave the breads a much better crust.

A recipe for coconut pie drew raves. Another recipe,
essence of lemonade, improved with age. At first it tasted
like tonic water, but after three days, it had a delicious
bitter lemon flavor.

‘The Lexington ladies who tested the recipes were
faced with some real challenges. “The directions in the
receipts were so vague, | didn’t really know if I had done it
right,” commented one cook. And some of the ingredi-
ents called for—like hops flowers—were not readily
available at the local Harris ‘Teeter (it was finally obtained
through a health-food catalog in Ohio).

“lam trying to make the recipes authentic, while
giving them a chance to be
good,” Mrs. Zimmer said. Her
cookbook is due to be published

 

 

 

 

 

next year by the UNC Press of

Lucy Campbell's Coconut Pie Chapel Hill.

nik daiena 6 eggs “This project has been

1 (6. sugar 1/2 cup cream more of a treasure hunt than a

1/2 (6. butter ; testing of recipes,” says Mrs.

Makes 2 pies. Zimmer. “In compiling the

NOTES: There are no instructions, but the best version was made with a coconut that book of my great-grandmother’s
yielded only 3/4 pound prepared meat. Reasoning that the nuts took longer to reach their recipes, I have learned a lot
destination back then, the tester dried the coconut in a very low oven with the door open | about my family and what life
Just a crack, She reduced the sugar to 1 2/3 cup to compensate for less coconut, but left was like for them, and other

the eggs (large) and the cream (whipping) as is. The first time she melted the butter, stirred
in the other ingredients, poured the mixture into pie shells and popped them into a 350-
degree oven for 50 minutes, until slightly browned and a Knife blade inserted in the filling
came out clean. Then, to make the pies lighter, she tried creaming the butter and sugar
until light, beating egg yolks, then whites before baking. Most of us preferred the first.
Downright toothsome. If you make this with today’s slightly dried, sweetened coconut,
use 14 ounces coconut and 1 3/4 cup sugar. You ll have something close to macaroon pie,

very different but very good.

 

families, after the Civil War. I

plan to use the manuscript as a

window on the Lees, Lexington,
_ and to some extent the South
after the Civil War,” she said.

“IT have been accused of
writing social history, disguised
as a cookbook . .. | hope I have.”

 

 

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

 

 

   

icin el atoms ri ws Sa Sad ih ak etn

GTHENING W&L's

6 ° ‘ ° 9
unique characteristics

 

 

In the following interview, conducted by W&L Director of Communications Brian D. Shaw, A. Stevens
Miles Jr., °51, reflects on his first year as rector of the Board, the important issues that confront the University,

and the direction and future of Washington and Lee.

PAPAIN

 

 

the majority of the violations are reported by the faculty. The
Board has recently asked that the deans review the process by
which they inform new faculty members of the significance of
the Honor System and its importance in the day-to-day life at
Washington and Lee. ‘This request was made not because we
questioned faculty support for the Honor System, but because
we wanted to emphasize the system’s importance to the
University. Most new faculty members come to Washington
and Lee with great respect for the Honor System, but the
Board wants to make sure they understand the very key role it
plays here.
Miles: ‘Vhat is the question most often asked of trustees.

‘The Honor System today is sound and is strongly supported

by the students, by faculty, and by administrators. At each

meeting of the Board, one of the first things we do is to be

briefed by the president of the Executive Committee of the

student body on the Honor System. He discusses the number

of cases brought before the committee and their resolution.

After that, the trustees normally ask questions and often

discussion follows, which gives the trustees an opportunity to

reinforce their support for our Honor System, and to express

their determination that it must be preserved.

‘The Honor System is a way of life at Washington and
Lee, not something we pay lip service to or something that we

have just because we think it would be popular to parents or Miles: ‘There is no question about the commitment of the
to prospective students. It remains a tradition and part of the trustees to the principle of student self-government. We want
character and fiber of the institution. it to work. From time to time, incidents occur that require
The violations are addressed by students and processed intervention by the administration, but these are few and far
by students. ‘The faculty also plays an important role, since between. Last year, for example, President Wilson suspended

1S W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

aa ce iii i.

ee en ee

ee ee ee ee

three students who were guilty of damage to a newly restored
fraternity house. In this case, the administration needed to
make it clear that the pattern of property destruction at the
fraternity houses would not be tolerated. Student govern-
ment at that time had not recognized this new order, but Lam
sure the students do understand now and will effectively deal
with these situations in the future. We believe that for the most
part the system works well, and we are constantly looking for

wavs to improve It.

HOW DOES THE Confidential Review Committee

(CRC) fit into the concept of student self-government?

Miles: The CRC—a committee of students and fac-
ulry—was created in 1985 for the purpose of providing a
forum to which students, especially women, could bring
sensitive issues that would be difficult to discuss in an open
meeting. ‘The purpose was appropriate, however, the original
charter was broader than it needed to be, and the perception
was created that the CRC was established with some ulterior
motives in mind. ‘That was clearly not the case.

Frankly, there is some question about whether we really
need a committee to handle the issues under the purview of
the CRC. It is conceivable that these sensitive issues could
really better be handled by an individual who has the profes-
sional experience to deal with the issues we are discussing.
President Wilson asked Dean (David) Howison and others to
take a look at the CRC and to make sure that it is accomplish-
ing what we want and, if not, perhaps it should be modified in
some way, or disbanded. The Board will support any decision
that does not needlessly infringe on student government.

AS WASHINGTON and Lee becomes more popular

with students on the national scene, competition for admission will
inevitably grow. As the competition grows, more and more students
with strong academic records are applying to W&L. What kind of
student is Washington and Lee attracting these days? Are they only

bright, or are they also well-rounded?

Miles: \ can tell you they are solid. ‘The students of
today embrace the same values we did when I was a stu-
dent—perhaps more fervently than we did. | find it thrilling
that today’s student body, made up of young people of both
sexes, of different races and religions, has a common respect
for the ideals and institutions established by General Lee.

In selecting students for Washington and Lee, Dean
(William) Hartog strives for a balanced class, with an emphasis
on students who have the propensity for leadership. “The
profile of the current freshman class of 421 reflects this.

Forty-eight individuals were student body presidents, 106
were presidents of organizations of their schools, 91 individu-
als were team captains, and 38 were children of alumni. ‘This
is a fairly typical representation of recent classes.

‘The same is true in the law school. Applicants have
doubled in 10 years, a real testament to the popularity of our
program. ‘he quality of students improves steadily, as has
the national reputation of our law school.

I think the results we have achieved—attracting a well-
rounded, balanced class year after year—testifies the success
of our admissions policy. Although we do have a male/female
ratio We want to maintain at the undergraduate level, we have
made it clear that we do not want our admissions policy
engineered to achieve quotas. We are really looking for
people who fit the ideals of Washington and Lee, are able to
make a contribution to the class and to the school, and who
can handle the work load.

AN OTHER GREAT strength of Washington and Lee

is the close relationship developed between the students and faculty
members. One reason those relationships are so easily formed is
because of the intimate size of the classes and the interest that professors
take in their students. If W&L were to grow, those relationships could
disappear. Do the Trustees have any plans for increasing the size of

the student body?

Miles: \n formulating its 10-year plan, the ‘Trustees
studied all aspects of the University. After the study, we
determined that the size of the student body was one of the
very important characteristics of Washington and Lee. We
agreed to keep the size of the student body at 1,600 for
undergraduates and 350 for the law school, realizing that in
doing so we would not benefit financially from a growing
enrollment. ‘This Board is committed to the 10-year plan and
is committed to keeping enrollment at those numbers.

In addition to limiting the size of the University, the Board is
also committed to keeping the faculty/student ratio low.
Right now, it is about 11 1/2 to one—one of the best in the
country. We want to maintain, if not improve on this ratio, in
the years ahead.

FOR ALMOST FIVE years now, we have read and

heard about the Fraternity Renaissance Program. With the renovation
of seven houses, almost half of the fraternity members at W&L are living
in “new” houses, but with new rules and regulations that apply to all
Greek members of the W&L community. Why did the University com-
mit the resources to restoring and renovating the fraternity houses?

Has the commitment paid off?

WA&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

The Fraternity Renaissance Program is more than just a
capital project. It is a reflection of the Board’s and the
administration’s commitment to fraternities at Washington
and Lee over the long term. Participation in fraternities and
management of fraternities is another part of the learning
process at W&L. It is a major factor that leads to the de-
velopment of leadership. ‘There is a real reason for having
them. ‘They are not just a place where students live and eat.
‘They are functioning organizations that enhance the quality
of life at Washington and Lee.

‘The condition of the fraternity houses had become a real
problem. ‘The condition reflected the attitude of the mem-
bers, which I think can be described as “anything goes.”
‘Trashing the house was a popular weekend activity. Frater-
nity life and fraternity houses were—in that condition—just
not compatible with Washington and Lee today and certainly
not with what we recall as undergraduates.

We believe that pride is being restored to fraternity living
and that the students will respond accordingly. I should point
out that this emphasis on fraternities by W&L is contrary to
the position being taken by many universities today, which is
to de-emphasize fraternities. ‘Through our Fraternity Renais-
sance Program, we are recommitting Washington and Lee to
another of its great traditions. ‘This is certainly a major
financial commitment on the part of the University, but one
which we believe will pay off in many ways.

AS THE COMP ETITION for the best teaching

faculty members grows and W&L’s senior faculty moves into retire-
ment, it is important that W&L attract teacher-scholars committed to

How is W&L doing that?

the values of a liberal arts institution.

Miles: Recruitment of faculty is extremely important and
challenging. About 25 percent of our current faculty will
retire in the 1990s. Washington and Lee has always been
characterized by outstanding faculty. We are determined
that this will continue.

We are working hard to replace the retiring faculty with
men and women of the highest quality. I’m speaking not
only of academic quality, but of the commitment to principles
that are so important here at Washington and Lee. The low
student/faculty ratio at W&L provides the opportunity for an
unusual closeness between faculty and students. It takes a
special kind of faculty member, we think, to make this
relationship work. You can find a person who is an extraordi-
narily good research scientist, for example, who does not
really have the ability to teach. ‘That is the distinction we are
trying to make. We want outstanding scholars only if they are
committed to teaching, as well.

I think it becomes extremely important for the deans to
make it clear to the new faculty members that they should not

20 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

take for granted the unique characteristics of Washington and
Lee. One concern on the part of the Board is that in replac-
ing 25 percent of your faculty group, you run the risk of changing
the philosophy of the faculty body, and thereby changing the
institution. We want to make sure that does not happen.

“POLITICAL CORRECTNESS” has te

come the phrase of the 1990s in education. We hear so much about it,
but rarely is it defined. What is political correctness, and does it exist

at Washington and Lee?

Miles: Political correctness is a phrase used to describe
the process of structuring the faculty and student body to
reflect percentages of females, minorities, etc., in the general
population, and to alter a curriculum to exaggerate positives
or eliminate or de-emphasize negatives about certain indi-
viduals or groups of people. ‘Those who support the concept
of political engineering feel that it is not enough to have a
policy that does not discriminate.

The Board feels that political correctness has no place at
Washington and Lee. We believe that our policy on non-
discrimination on the basis of sex, race, or religion is appropri-
ate in this day and time, but that making concessions to
achieve quotas is wrong. Our policy has resulted in an
environment in which various points of view are represented.
‘The Board believes that our policy of seeking the highest
quality students, who possess characteristics we believe are in
keeping with the traditions of Washington and Lee, is an
appropriate and proper policy.

One area where political correctness has manifested itself
on our campus Is in the form of accrediting agencies attempt-
ing to structure or engineer admissions or placement policies
in a way that is incompatible with our beliefs. It is the clear,
and I believe unanimous, attitude of our Board that such a
practice is not acceptable. It is extraordinarily important that
our University be accredited by important agencies and we
think that the accreditation requirements, as they apply to the
quality of the curriculum, the faculty, and the physical char-
acteristics of the school, are very appropriate. But when those
requirements extend beyond reasonableness, we oppose
allowing accrediting agencies to dictate policy at Washington
and Lee.

IN THESE TIMES OF economic uncertainty

regularly read about colleges and universities that are in financial
trouble. Some are having to raise tuition just to balance the budget
Others are going to extreme measures to recruit students. What is the

financial condition of Washington and Lee?

¥

 

 

Qur institution ts financially sound today. ‘Through
prudent financial management we have been able to control
cuition levels, which has resulted in our institution being
recognized by U.S. News © World Reportas the best buy
among the top 25 liberal arts colleges and universities in the
country. This puts us in a very enviable position. However,
our projections clearly indicate that present economic trends
will result in our costs increasing by approximately 80 percent
over the next decade.

‘To meet these cost increases, some increase in tuition Is
inevitable. Because we are at the lower end of the scale, we
have some room to do that. However, increasing tuition to a
point where we are pricing desirable students out of our
market is not wise. ‘Therefore, we must seek increased
revenues through an increase in our present endowment
fund. ‘To achieve this, we must convince our alumni that
We&L really has this need. Some seem to believe that we are
a wealthy school and don’t need financial help.

lt may be surprising that in the same U.S. News survey
that ranked us the best buy also ranked Washington and Lee
only 21st among the top colleges in terms of endowment per
student. It is clear that to compete effectively we must
improve our position in this area.

BOARDS OF TRUSTEES can often be charac

terized in two groups—extremely involved or passively involved in the
life of an institution. Is the Washington and Lee Board active or passive

in its approach to the governance of W&L?

Miles: Through the committee structure, the Board is
involved in every phase of the University. ‘The committees
of the Board are Budget and Audit, Investment, Develop-
ment, Capital Projects, Campus Life, Academic Affairs, and
Nominating. There is also an Executive Committee. Each
‘Trustee serves on two committees. We are involved in all
major policy decisions.

lt is a very dedicated group. I have never been associ-
ated with a Board—and I’ve been on many of them—that is
more dedicated or committed than the Washington and Lee
Board. ‘To a person, they are committed to W&L. It is
simply just a way of life with them. Virtually every member
of the Board is an alumnus or the parent or spouse—or
both—of an alumnus. This explains their dedication.

AS ALUMNI, WE receive many mailings from the

University —requests for contributions to the Annual Fund, announce-
ments of Homecoming and Reunion weekends, details of Alumni
Colleges and other programs. In the eyes of the Board, what role do

alumni play in the future of the University? Is it purely financial?

Miles: The Board has been pleased and gratified with the
large turnouts we've had for our major events—Homecoming
and Reunion—over the last few years. Each event brings a
record crowd. ‘That says a lot about our alumni and how they
feel about the place. We love to have them back and we rely
on them more and more.

I have said to the Board that we have three constituen-
cies: the students, the faculty and staff, and the alumni. If
W&L were a corporation, I would equate our alumni to
stockholders. ‘hey are the ones who have a real stake in the
institution. ‘That diploma is a certificate of ownership in
Washington and Lee. Although we don’t pay cash dividends,
we do think that those dividends are an improved institution,
one in which alumni can take great pride and one that
increases the value of that sheepskin because it is a better
school.

If we somehow let the reputation of the diploma decline
in value, then we, as trustees, have not done our job properly.
If we believe, though, in the importance of alumni as stock-
holders, we need their input. We need their participation.
We need their support. We can’t respond to this vital
constituency if we don’t hear from them, and we cannot
survive without their active participation and support.

WASHINGTON AND LEE iste sisth-oides

institution of higher learning in the United States. As it approaches
its 250th birthday, what type of institution is W&L going to be as it

enters the 21st century?

Miles: Washington and Lee is and will continue to be a
liberal arts institution in the true sense of the word. Our
commitment to liberal arts is the foundation of our concept of
learning. Our history is filled with so many people who have
gone from the liberal arts experience at W&L to top positions
in the fields of law, business, journalism, medicine, you name
it. In every field, you will find a Washington and Lee
graduate near the top.

Fundamentally, Washington and Lee is the same place it
was when I graduated in 1951, and I think it will be the same
place, with a few improvements and slight modifications, 40
years out. I can’t see any trends at work that would dramati-
cally change the nature of the place. We don’t want to
change it, but we do want to continue to strengthen its
unique characteristics. We need help to do this. We are
going to need the financial support—we are counting on the
financial support—of our alumni to help us achieve that goal.

Washington and Lee is a place where personal values and
the continuity of tradition are the defining principles of our
educational mission and the ‘Trustees, administration, and
faculty are committed to keeping it strong.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

N THE ROAD W

emember your family

vacation? You know, the one

where you drive for hours in
the family station wagon with your
mother, your father, brothers, sisters,
and all the worldly possessions you
need for the next week in the trunk.

Remember the picturesque views on
the scenic highways down in the
valley? ‘The sunlight as it shines
through that gap in the mountains or
the shadows of clouds on the hills? ‘The
look of the waves as they spray water
off the shore-guarding rocks? ‘The
gourmet meals at the five-star hotels?

Everyone has fond memories of
long trips to faraway places. But for
Washington and Lee football teams,
the memories of long trips, in particular
one that the group takes every other
year, are anything but fond. ‘They’re
downright ugly.

Ask former W&L assistant coach
Boyd Williams. ‘The trip to Sewanee,
‘Tenn., which has been made every
other year for the last 36 years, is any-
thing but enjoyable. But it is the equi-
valent of the Washington and Lee
football family vacation.

Scenic highways? How about
barren interstate where the “scenery”
is primarily graffiti-covered rock forma-
tions and run-of-the-mill, eyesore
fireworks stores. ‘There are no beaches.
‘There are no gourmet meals. ‘There is
no five-star hotel. Worst of all, there is
no comfy family wagon or van trans-
porting you to and from Lexington. No,
on the contrary, the Generals, as is
tradition, travel in a bus where the
seats aren't always made to fit your
average football player, and the climate
control is set perfectly, provided your
climate is Anchorage.

22 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

TH THE GENERA

STORY AND PHOTOS: by jay plotkin,’92

Te re D PRET
4 Re os Se at ae
Prd fh a <', tet ised

, yo re a}

a,

- eT: ye .
wet, aby: *

a al %
gs s.

of =

 

The CG letianale wearing their game faces, shia their gear outside the Sewanee locker room.

Every other year, as part of the
continuation of W&L’s currently
longest-running continuous series, the
football team travels those eight hours
south out of Virginia, down through
‘Tennessee, into northeastern Georgia,
and then back into ‘Tennessee to play
one of its toughest games of the year
against the University of the South.

“Bus riding’s not one of my favor-
ite pastimes to begin with,” under-
stated Williams, who has made the trip
more than anyone associated with
W&L’s football program—17 times.
“It’s a rough trip, and a long trip, but
it’s always a good trip home after going
down there and beating them people.
But I never enjoyed the ride.”

Given that the Generals have
made the trip 19 times and won only
six of those games up on Monteagle
Mountain, the Sewanee trip has the
tradition of often being a lot longer
than it actually is.

In 1991, W&L, searching for its
first win of the season, came away from
Sewanee just shy of victory. It was a
trip that is typical of what it’s like to
travel even today in the world of
Division III sports. And yet it also
serves as an enduring reminder of how
the more things change (two-platoon
football, facemasks, and the Run-and-
Shoot offense), the more they stay the
same (that intolerable, abominable bus
ride to Sewanee).

n Friday, Oct. 25, at precisely

8:01 FS’T (Fallon Standard

Time), W&L head coach Gary
Fallon ordered the buses to leave,
beginning the semi-annual Sewanee
odyssey for W&L football. As with
most long trips when the buses leave
early, there were players who failed to
make it to the bus on time. Stories are
legend of players running across the
footbridge only to hear the engines

start, or others who stay awake all night
only to fall asleep after their shower on
the morning of departure. Suffice it to
sav that it wouldn’t be a Sewanee trip
without someone missing the bus.

Shortly after pulling out of Lexing-
ron, most of the players had pulled out
their Walkman stereos, selected their
rune of choice, and tried to get back to
sleep. The first leg of the trip, prior to
the lunch stop, is a healthy three hours,
so it provides an excellent opportunity
to catch up on some missed shut-eye,
provided you can fit in your seat.

Sophomore center Derek Boggs
from Holden, Mass., is a rookie to the
Sewanee trip, but he showed the im-
provisational skill of a veteran in the
first hours of this year’s excursion.
Because the seats are, to say the least,
UNCOMFORTABLE—especially for
a 230-pound offensive lineman—Boggs
found the best alternative to be the
floor. He had no trouble getting to
sleep after the move.

“It was very relaxing,” Boggs said.
“I could hear the engine going, and I
had my pillow. But, it was not quite
like home.”

Amen, brother. Boggs’ method was
adopted by fellow first-timers Michael
MaclLane and Matthew Mogk on the
return trip. Boggs said a man’s got to do
whataman’s gottodo when
it comes to sleeping on a
bus.

“The buses are too
small for big guys like
“We're
really cramped in there.

linemen,” he said.

‘The seats hurt my back, so I
moved to the floor and
stretched out. I’m glad I
did it early though because the floor was
It got kind of sticky after
everyone started walking on it.”

‘The price one has to pay. But then
perhaps it’s a matter of priorities.
Coach Williams, for one, was always
impressed by the ability of his players
to get their rest.

“It always amazed me how our
men could sleep on the bus,” he said.

“I never could.”

sull clean.

fter lunch, which consisted of
a submarine sandwich, potato
chips and a drink at a Ten-

nessee rest stop, the players and
coaches got a chance to stretch before
getting back on the bus. ‘The Generals,
who always travel in coat-and-tie, often
end up stopping at the same spot with
other football teams and other travelers
headed south for games. Often the
dress code and the meals of other
schools are a step or two down from
those of the Generals, but the coats-
and-ties always draw their share of at-
tention. Without fail, the team is com-
plimented for its snappy looks and per-
sonable nature, but there is the story of
one trip where the Generals met up
with a rag-tag group from a West
Virginia college football team. When a
group of the West Virginia players were
told that W&L was a football team,
they were dumbfounded. “We thought
you were a church choir,” came back
the reply. Gee, thanks fellas.

‘Three more hours of interstate
travel occupied the team before its stop
for a light work-out. Usually, the
Generals practice at historic Neyland
Stadium on the campus of the Univer-
sity of Tennessee in Knoxville.

“On the trip down, we always try
to practice at UT,” Williams remem-

THESEWANEE TRIP

“It’s a rough trip, and a long trip, but it’s
always a good trip home after going down
there and beating them people”’ Boyp wiLLiams

bered. “That is always a highlight for
our people.”

‘The towering, cavernous stadium
often leaves the players like so many
kids in a candy store. Before practice in
1989, the Generals formed the W&L
‘Trident at midfield and had a photo
taken to commemorate their stop. ‘The
95,000-seat facility with its orange-and-
white painted Astro Turf is far-removed
from traditional W&L stopping places

like Farmville and Ashland and Emory.

“It’s a great opportunity,” said
senior tri-captain ‘l’rey Cox. “We’re
not used to seeing that size stadium.
Everyone is in awe at the size of the
place the first time they walk out on
the Astro Turf and look around.”

This season, though, the Generals
didn’t get a chance to practice at
Neyland Stadium due to a junior
varsity game being played that day, so
it was back to more driving, through
Knoxville, into Chattanooga to the
Baylor School, a prep school that has
strong W&L ties. The extra drive was
made a little more bearable thanks to
modern technology. Both of W&L’s
buses were equipped with television
and VCR and the Generals made use of
them by watching films. Not game
films, mind you, but motion pictures.
But when they weren't watching
movies, or sleeping, they were study-
ing—even some coaches.

After practice, the Generals had
just a short ride to what has become the
regular stopping place on the Sewanee
trip, the Holiday Inn at the Chatta-
nooga- liftonia exit. ‘he Generals
have stopped there each of the last five
trips. ‘The ‘Tiftonia exit is the last Ten-
nesee exit before the state line, and it
leaves an hour’s drive up the mountain
to Sewanee. ‘The hotel
is not on Mobil’s Five-
Star list but its beds are
certainly more comfort-
able than your average
bus floor. ‘The players
also make full use of the
in-room movie option
on their ‘T’V sets.

Dinner, while far
from gourmet, was of the typical training
meal variety. ‘he players loaded up
on a peculiar Tiftonia specialty that
appeared to be a sort-of Mexican-style
spaghetti. It cannot be described. It
can only be experienced. After dinner,
the players headed up to the rooms
with an 11 p.m. curfew.

On Saturday morning, everyone
started their day with an 8:40 wake-up
call, followed by the restaurant break-

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 23

fast bar and more carbohy-
drates. ‘The Generals
boarded the bus at 11 a.m. to
make the trip through
Georgia, back into Tennes-
see, and up Monteagle
Mountain, home of the
University of the South.
While coaches and play-
ers alike went over the

 

afternoon’s plans one final
time, one thing was certain—
the rivalry with the Tigers
would be renewed once again.
and
have
marked the Sewanee game.

Memorable figures

memorable games
W&L coaching legends
like Williams and

McLaughlin did battle regu-

Lee

larly with Sewanee’s own
coaching legend Shirley
Majors in the 60s and ’70s.
W&L rushing great Kevin Weaver had
222 yards and four ‘IDs in a 1985 game.
W&L won its first game after desubsi-
dization against Sewanee in 1956.
Fallon got his first college coaching
victory against Sewanee in 1978.
Sixteen of the games since 1955 have
been decided by a touchdown or less.

“On that trip, it always helped to
know that we were playing Sewanee,”
Williams said. “It is a rivalry that has
developed over the years.”

One thing that adds to the rivalry is
the similarities between the two insti-
tutions. Both are small, competitive,
typically Southern colleges, where the
emphasis has been on academics first
and football second.

“They are a type of team we need to
play,” tri-captain Cox said. “They have
the same priorities that we do. A lot of
us have friends that go there, too. I think
all of that adds to it and makes it a
bigger rivalry.”

‘The 1991 edition of the rivalry
only added to the lore. Despite
Sewanee being undefeated and the
Generals coming in winless, the game
was a Classic dogfight, filled with
bruising hits and a few lucky breaks.
Sewance held on for dear life to capture

24 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

the 21-13 victory. Coming so close only
seemed to lengthen the return trip to
Lexington.

As they boarded the bus to leave
Sewanee, several Generals showed the
wear and tear of the game. Senior punt
returner Scott Williamson came out of
the locker room wearing a pair of ice
bags as a result of his afternoon’s work.
treshmen quarterback Geren Steiner
boarded the bus favoring his overused
right arm. He threw 50 passes in just
three quarters.

espite the loss, though,
spirits were as high as could

be expected. It was one of the
team’s better performances against one
of the best teams it would face all year.
And anyway, there was no getting
around the fact that an eight-hour bus
ride awaited them. Indeed, several
Generals looked on the bright side,
mentioning that the clocks would be
turned back one hour that night with
the switch back to standard time.

‘The return trip provided more of
the same. Players listened to the World
Series, provided they could find it as it
faded in and out of reception. Other
players studied, or played cards, or slept

 

Freshman Michael MacLane tries to rest his weary head on the long
and winding road to Sewanee, Tenn.

some more. A little after 2
a.m., the buses arrived in
Lexington.

‘The trip was over, but
not forgotten. ‘The Generals
had been gone over 42
hours and nearly half of that
time was spent traveling. It
tends to have a lasting
effect, Williams remem-
bered.

“You always worried
about what the trip would
take out of the players the
next week,” he said. “But
the fact that they were good
sleepers helped that
situation. Most everyone
slept on the way back.”

After his first trip,

 

Boggs agreed that the trip

takes its toll. He admits

he’s not looking forward to
the trip he’ll make again in two years.

“It’s hard to look forward to the
trip,” he said. “Being on the bus takes
so much out of you. You get tight, and
sometimes you never get loose.”

While the ride may not be a
favorite, as Williams will attest to, the
games are always memorable and
challenging. ‘The bus ride, vacation
though it’s not, is just one of those
things that makes the Sewanee trip
even more memorable.

“You've just got to suck it up and
abide by it,” Williams said. “Remem-
ber one thing, though. We only have
to make the trip every other year.
‘Thank the Dear Lord for that.”

EDITOR’S NOTE:

Jay Plotkin, a senior from Rich-
mond, Va., isin his fourth year of
covering W&L sports. Plotkin, “the
voice of the Generals,” has been sports
editorof The Ring-tum Phi since the
fallof 1989 and has broadcast W@L
football, basketball,lacrosse,and
baseballgameson WLUR-FM since

hissophomoreyear.

eT as Th ao ~
oe ‘The WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY A

ee
Jodi Herring reacts with surprise as she 1s named
1991 Homecoming Queen at halftime of the Generals’

4 football game with Davidson. Herring and her escort,
Sees = Joel Shinofteld represented Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.

 

 

 

 

ane hc:
cone fio tos oi Boe

o i Fe: See oc

 

Ceremony, celebrations

highlight Homecoming Weekend

An unusually blustery early fall weekend was the setting for
the 1991 Washington and Lee Homecoming, and it was a week-
end filled with friendships, a dedication, and celebrations.

This year’s Homecoming was the largest ever as over 700
alumni returned to campus for the 1991 Homecoming festivities,
which included a special chapter presidents meeting, the return
of the Five-Star Generals, and the Fraternity Renaissance Dedi-
cation Ceremony.

‘The annual event brought together the
Five-Star Generals, those W&L alumni who
were graduated from the University 50 or more
years ago, and a record 95 Five-Star Generals
came back to Lexington for the event. Also
gathering were the members of the classes of
1988 through 1991 for their special cluster
reunion. ‘The W&L Alumni Board of Directors
and the W&L Law Council also met during the
weekend, and a special seminar for alumni
chapter presidents also was held.

The annual John Randolph ‘Tucker Lec-
ture in Lewis Hall was given by Floyd Abrams,
associate with the law firm of Cahill, Gordon &
Reindel of New York. Friday evening’s events
included the Five-Star Generals Banquet and
the annual Homecoming concert at the Student
Activities Pavilion, which featured the music of
the band Squeeze.

 

On Saturday morning, a
special memorial service was
held in Lee Chapel, honoring
Robert E. Lee on the 121st
anniversary of his death.

‘The Fraternity Renais-
sance Dedication Ceremony
also took place on Saturday.
Col. Paul Murphy, °49, chair-
man of the fraternity renais-
sance steering committee,
served as master of ceremo-
nies for the dedication, which
was held at Red Square on a
cordoned off section of Henry
Street before a crowd of over
300. Speaking on behalf of the
city, Mayor H.E. “Buddy”
Derrick told the crowd and
the University, “I want to
commend you on your
determination to make this
program work. I cannot
overemphasize the impor-
tance for all of us, the city and
the University, of the ultimate achievement of all the objectives
of the Renaissance.”

Other highlights of the weekend included two delicious
luncheons on the Front Lawn, a concert in the Lenfest Center
by W&L’s choral ensembles, and the traditional football game, a
thriller lost by the Generals to Davidson, and halftime Home-
coming queen ceremony.

Senior Jodi Lynn Herring of Boone, N.C., was named the
1991 Homecoming queen. A biology major, Honor Roll student,
and a letterwinner on both the cross country and swimming
teams, Herring represented Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.

4 |

A/a)

~ IIIA LL / 7
ae

Top: The Alumni House provided a gathering place for old and new alumni on the Saturday afternoon of Homecoming. Bottom: Members of the
Class of ’43 discussed plans for their group's 50th Reunion. Meeting were (front row, left) Morrison “Joe” Nelson, Robert Tyson, Stan Mitchell,
Neely Young, and Al Darby; and (back row, left) Bill Hamilton, Paul Sanders, Cal Bond, Walt Brady, Paul Shuford, and Roscoe Stephenson.

(Not pictured: Leo Signaigo.)

 

| & PAGE 26/ THE

CAZES » Oi

 

 

*—7

Colonial Homes magazine honors W&L with preservation award

Colonial Homes magazine, which featured Washington and
Lee University and Lexington, Va., in its October issue, has
named the city of Lexington, Washington and Lee, and four
other Lexington area preservation groups to receive its presti-
gious Heritage Preservation Award.

E. Michael Peterson, publisher of Co/onia/l Homes, and
Annette Stramesi, editorial director, presented the awards at a
reception at Lee House.

The Colonial Homes Heritage Preservation Award is given
in appreciation of a community’s work in historic renovation and
preservation. ‘he award recognizes a commitment to historic
preservation in a way that emphasizes the original use of the
building or buildings that are preserved.

‘The award has only been presented three times since 1983.

Colonial Homes saluted the city of Concord, Mass., in 1983, and
selected York, Pa., for special recognition in 1984.

“Through our Colonial Homes award for historic preserva-
tion, we are able to express our appreciation and gratitude to
those who have helped maintain the magazine’s unique
perspective on America’s cultural and design heritage,” Peterson
said. “As you read our October issue, which features Lexington,
we think you'll be struck with this community’s firm commit-
ment to preserving the spirit and tangible reminders of the his-
tory that gives their city its special character.”

Colonial Homes is a Hearst Magazines publication, and is read
by more than two million people each issue. It is regarded as the
nation’s leading publication devoted to interior design, architec-
ture, collecting, and historical preservation.

 

 

Meese: Supreme
Court should stick

to Constitution

Former U.S. Attorney
General Edwin Meese told a
Washington and Lee audience
that while the founding
fathers might recognize the
Supreme Court in its present
form, they’d have a handful of
questions.

Meese, speaking in Lee
Chapel as part of the Contact
lecture series, stressed the
importance of adhering to the
original intentions of the Con-
stitution rather than adapting
the document to the changing
times. Meese said the high
court appointments made by
Presidents Reagan and Bush
have the Court “going in the
right direction now.”

“The founders wrote the
Constitution in a way that it
could be adapted, primarily by

the elected branches of govern-
ment, and applied to things
today,” Meese said. “Like-
wise, virtually everything that
has happened is adaptable to
the terms of the Constitution.
But the question is, ‘Has that
adaptation been faithful to the
original intent of the Constitu-
tion?”

Meese, who accused the
high court of the last quarter
century of “going off on tan-
gents of its own which would
not be supported by the Con-
stitution,” highlighted four
areas that might disturb the
founding fathers. He said the
founders would have disagreed
with the 1964 ruling that
forced state legislatures to do
away with geographic-based
representation. He said the

Court’s intercession in matters
of criminal law, such as the
Miranda decision, would be
viewed as an imposition by the
founders. He also said the Roe
v. Wade decision was conrary
to the original intentions of the
Supreme Court because it
“made a legislative issue into a
judicial decision.” And Meese
said the fourth trouble area has
been the Court’s involvement
in matters of religion.

‘The Court as it stands cur-
rently might be more pleasing
to the founding fathers than
those of the previous 30 years.

“President Reagan and
now President Bush have made
a commitment publicly and to
the legal system to appoint
judges who would interpret
the law and not try to be super-

legislators, who would not try
to bring to the federal level or
into the judicial arena matters
that should be decided more
directly by the people’s own
representatives,” Meese said.
‘The central question, he
explained, is “whether judges
are bound by the originally
understood meaning of the
Constitution or whether courts
are free to apply the evolving
moral standards and to adapt
the Constitution to the needs
of the modern era without any
constraints inherent in the docu-
ment itself.” Because the
high court often must strike
down majority decisions by the
masses, it must be able to do
so wearing the strong mantle
of the Constitution, he said.

 

 

W&L Superdance to benefit alumnus

The 1992 Washington and Lee Muscular Dystrophy Superdance will have a special
focus this year, one that ties directly to a Washington and Lee alumnus.

‘The 1992 W&L MD Superdance, one of the most successful small college Superdance
events nationwide, will have as its personal poster child, 5-year-old Andrew Slay, the son of
Joe Slay, °72. Andrew and Joe were featured in a story in the Summer 1991 issue of WEL.

Andrew has spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a form of muscular dystrophy, and the
efforts at this year’s W&L Superdance will be on his behalf. All proceeds collected at this
year’s Superdance will be given to support research on SMA in Andrew’s name.

‘The 1992 Superdance will be held Feb. 7-8 at the W&L Student Activities Pavilion.
Those interested in obtaining more information about Superdance should contact Fontanne
Bostic, Superdance coordinator, at (703) 463-8917.

 

 

 

| @ THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 27-¢

_t

 

 

 

 

 

Pictured are inductees (front row, left) Mike Neer, ’70, Dick Boisseau, ’40, and Bill Brumback, ’71; and presenters (back row, left) Alumni Direc-
tor Jim Farrar Jr., '74, basketball coach Verne Canfield , Lea Booth, ’40, former swimming coach Bill Stearns , and Athletic Director Mike Walsh .

W&L heroes honored during Hall of Fame Weekend ceremonies

Washington and Lee inducted four of its most fabled ath-
letes into the Athletic Hall of Fame in September at a banquet
ceremony filled with laughter, memories, and a celebration of
athletes and athletics at the University.

‘The 1991 class of inductees, which was the fourth group to
be inducted since the Hall of Fame was established in 1988, was
comprised of 1930s football legends Hugo “Hug” Bonino, °36,
and Dick Boisseau, ’40, swimming and lacrosse standout Bill
Brumback, ’71, and basketball and track record-setter Mike
Neer, *70.

As always, the ceremony was filled with memories while
creating a few of its own, too. Lea Booth, ’40, got the evening off
to a special start as he presented his friend, roommate, and class-
mate Boisseau for induction to the Hall of Fame.

“I wish we had had some video tapes during our school days
so that Dick’s grandchildren could watch him overwhelming
those Wahoos and Hokies,” Booth told the crowd. “They'd
surely be proud of old granddad as he was one of the Old
Dominion’s all-time gridiron greats.”

James D. Farrar, Jr., 74, director of alumni affairs, presented
the story of the massive Hug Bonino and his dominating play on
the line of scrimmage for W&L football teams and his equally
tremendous prowess on the wrestling mat.

“It’s been said by those who know him that for all his size
and strength and athletic prowess, he was a gentle person and a
model student,” Farrar said. “There’s no doubt that Hug has left
an indelible mark on the Washington and Lee athletic tradition.”

Brumback, an All-American in both swimming and lacrosse
despite having the two vastly different sports seasons run together,
was presented by his former swimming coach Bill Stearns.

“He makes you look like a great coach,” Stearns said. “You
talk about attitude, pure talent, being receptive to changes, and
his enthusiasm. Whether it be in academics or athletics, Billy
did great all the way through.”

Neer, who led W&L basketball and track teams to outstand-

ing successes, has gone on to be one of the top basketball
coaches in the country at the University of Rochester. He was
introduced by his former W&L coach Verne Canfield.

“I think he’s on the way to being one of the best coaches in
our business,” Canfield said. “It’s been a joy to watch him grow
and develop as a person. It was a joy to coach him.

Neer’s remarks, sincere and emotional, summed up for every-
one what it means to be a Washington and Lee athlete and what
the Hall of Fame itself represents. “...’m surprised at how I’ve
been feeling in the last hour-and-a-half. I guess with coaching
I’m caught up in the moment, in the challenge of the team that I
have each year, and so on. | didn’t know that I'd feel as touched
as | am tonight.

“When you're in Division III and you coach for the joy and
the enjoyment of coaching, you're coaching young men who are
here because they want to play. Many times there are those in
the profession who don’t understand why you toil in Division II]
where there’s not an awful lot of attention, not an awful lot of
money, not an awful lot of recognition. Believe me, there are
nights when I ask myself the same thing.

“...But I got into coaching largely because I saw Sleepy
‘Thompson, my coach at St. Stephen’s School, and I saw Verne
Canfield here enjoy the challenge every year. ‘here was
something noble about their efforts when we stunk it up the
night before and they tried to get us back on track. It’s been fun.
I’ve viewed coaching as a journey, not a destination. I think the
pressure is self-imposed at this level. I work for a university that
appreciates what I do and what my players have done.

“] think I have a lot of what all of us tonight have in Washing-
ton and Lee. ‘There are many that think because there isn’t a Divi-
sion IV that Division III is a catch basin. If they could see what |
see here tonight, if they could feel what I feel every day at prac-
tice, if they could feel what I have felt in coaching, I think I'd
convert an awful lot of people. Washington and Lee is a special
place. Coaching is a special profession. I’m glad I have both.”

 

 

+  % PAGE 28/ THE

 

 

GAZEETE ©. |}

 

First Smith fellow finishes,

two more named

Alisann McGloin, ’91, recently com-
pleted the first ‘odd C. Smith Memorial
Fellowship, and the fruits of that first
fellowship recently appeared in the
Tampa Tribune, Smith’s former paper.

McGloin spent a month this summer
in Russia working on a story on the life of
women in the Soviet Union.

While in Moscow, McGloin worked
with John- Thor Dahlburg, ’75, Moscow
correspondent for the Las Angeles Times.

The fellowship was established in
1989 by Smith’s family and friends to
honor the former reporter and columnist
for the 777hune. Smith, ’83, was killed by
terrorists in Peru while working on an
investigative story about drug trafficking.

‘The fellowship is designed to help
aspiring journalists at Washington and Lee
to become foreign correspondents by
providing a stipend to travel and study in
the country of their choice. “‘I'wo-thirds of
the projected $100,000 needed for the
fellowship has been raised to this point.

‘The department of journalism has

 

 

President Wilson addresses audience at Benefactors Wall ceremony in October.

Three names added to Benefactors Wall

Washington and Lee added the names of three long-time friends and contributors to
the Benefactors Wall in ceremonies this fall.

William Lyne Wilson II, °27; Joseph S. Keelty, "44; and J.B. Stombock, ’41, ’47L,
have had their names added to the list of special friends and supporters of the University
who have made gifts of $1 million or more to Washington and Lee.

Wilson was the grandson of William Lyne Wilson, president of Washington and Lee
University from 1897-1900 and Postmaster General during the second Grover Cleveland
administration. Wilson established the Lynchburg law firm of Wilson, Garbee &
Rosenberger, which hired many W&L law graduates over the years. He helped fund

 

announced the two recipients of Smith
Fellowships for 1992. Juniors Frederick
C. Haring of Mansfield, Ohio, and
Richard J. Peltz of Cockeysville, Md.,
have been selected for the award. Haring
will be investigating Condomble, a spi-
ritualist religion in Brazil, and its effects
on Brazilian politics, while Peltz will be
examining press freedom in Costa Rica.

Interfraternity Council endorses black fraternity at W&L

Alpha Phi Alpha, a histor-
ically black fraternity, received
an endorsement from the Inter-
fraternity Council to begin
colinization efforts at Wash-
ington and Lee University.

‘The IFC voted 11-4 in
favor of the fraternity in a late
November IFC meeting. Alpha
Phi Alpha had been endorsed
by the Student Affairs Com-
mittee in a Nov. 1 decision.

Dean of Students David
Howison told students in a
Ring-tum Phi article that “the
SAC believes the interested
students have the right to try
and make this thing work.

We did not want to stand in
their way.”

‘The proposed Alpha Phi
Alpha chapter still must be
approved at the national con-
vention this summer before it
can begin colonization. ‘That
would mean that the earliest
the chapter could rush freshmen
would be in the winter of
1993.

Alpha Phi Alpha has
different standards for admit-
tance than W&L’s other fra-
ternities, and because it does
not accept freshmen for mem-
bership, it would not partici-
pate in Fall Rush.

‘The issue of a black
fraternity was hotly debated
on campus in the weeks prior
to the decision. A Ring-tum Phi
poll showed that nearly 50
percent of all students sup-
ported the establishment of
an Alpha chapter, while nearly
40 percent did not. Among
men, the vote was split evenly.

Prior to the vote, student
EC president Giles Perkins
said he opposed Alpha Phi
Alpha coming to W&L, saying
it would promote segregation
on campus.

But senior John Harris, a
former member of Chi Psi,

 

ee oe

l

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 29 ¢

“a:

the chaired professorship in economics, initially established by his grandfather.
Keelty, a trustee emeritus of the University, is chairman of the board of James
Keelty & Co., a Baltimore-based residential and land developing firm. Keelty was a
trustee of the University from 1983-88. He is being honored for his generous financial
support and trusteeship.
Stombock, who died in 1968, was a lawyer and civic leader in Waynesboro, Va. He
served as vice chairman of the Waynesboro board of Virginia National Bank and
president of the Fishburne-Hudgins Educational Foundation. He was also past
president of the Augusta County Bar Association.

told The Phi, “Try to relate to
what we're going through. |
gave it [the fraternity system]
a shot for two years. It was
not what I want in fraternity.”

‘There was an active
W&L chapter of Alpha Phi
Alpha during the 1970s, but it
was dissolved by the end of
the decade.

An Alpha Phi Alpha
representative visited W&L
in October after being con-
tacted by a group of W&L
students interested in
bringing an Alpha chapter to
W&L.

 

J

 

 

 

 

rs VP
ms » ——_

a Le
A 7

> on

Led
+ eer T
iv |

, 2 ns
La - a he ty et ee OSS
oa es Se he, Patt ala iad
p ; & - parte * S- a eee Ph
P c r i * '* “ ae. . e ‘7 ae oe An eg 7 * nt ra ~
oe ~ = ’ ‘+ ; a an aoe A ‘iota “ra,
me Se POR a. eh i‘ a : tee ee Fite ae Sa
eat ee £5? 3k ve ee 34 x cc ee . :

Shown above is the architectural model for the proposed addition to the Reeves Center. The plans are
currently being reviewed by the Board of Trustees.

New wing planned for Reeves Center

Mrs. William Watson of Lynchburg, Va., has made a gift to Washington and Lee University to
construct a new building for the University’s Reeves Center, which houses W&L’s collection of
Chinese export porcelain.

Plans show for the gallery to be built west of the Reeves Center and north of ‘Vucker Hall on the
W&L front campus. ‘The William Hall Parnership, a New York architectural firm, has prepared a
preliminary design for the facility. ‘The plans show a structure with a central rotunda surrounded by
four separate galleries.

The building’s plans are currently being reviewed by the University and the Board of ‘Trustees.
‘The Board is expected to reach a decision on the building at its winter meeting in February.

‘The Reeves Center houses a porcelain collection largely made up of 18th- and 19th-century
Chinese export porcelain. ‘The planned building — to be named the Watson Pavilion — will house
pieces from Mrs. Watson’s own extensive collection of Oriental decorative art, older pieces from the
Reeves Center permanent collection dating from the early 18th century to the sixth century, and
traveling exhibitions of the decorative arts.

“The Watson Pavilion will give us a range and breadth of focus that is quite important in the
study of ceramics,” said Reeves Center Director James Whitehead. “We will now have a flexibility
that was simply not available in the old building.”

‘The Watson Pavilion will be used primarily as a research facility for W&L students and visiting
scholars of the ceramic arts. ‘This year there are 20 students from all disciplines at W&L involved in
the Reeves Center program.

“The social, political, economic, and religious events of the time were painted onto porcelain,”
said Whitehead. “Much as the Reeves Center has been in the past, this new gallery will continue
to be useful to students at the Commerce School, as well as to law, history, language, and religion
students. Students in the sciences such as geology and chemistry will find it useful, as well. ‘This
will be like a rare book library, but in porcelain.”

Mrs. Watson was married to the late William Watson, ’29. ‘The Watsons lived in China for
many years where they acquired their porcelain collection.

 

 

|  PAGE30/THE GAZETTE #¢ |

Committee to
review policy
on harassment

‘The Confidential Review

Jommittee (CRC), the Wash-
ington and Lee University
faculty-student organization
that reviews allegations of
harassment, is conducting a
review of the University’s
harassment policy and the
procedures for its implemen-
tation.

Under current policy, the
University defines harassment
as “any conduct of an ethnic,
racial, religious, or sexual
nature that has the purpose or
effect of substantially or un-
reasonably interfering with an
individual’s work or educa-
tional performance; of creating
an intimidating, hostile, or of-
fensive environment for work
or learning; or of adversely af-
fecting an individual’s quality
of life.”

Under consideration ts a
plan to transfer all harassment
cases from the CRC to the
jurisdiction of the student run
Student Conduct Committee.

‘The CRC is a standing
committee of four faculty
members appointed by the
vice president for academic
affairs and three student
members appointed by the
university president. ‘The
committee reviews cases of
harassment and is empowered
to impose a broad range of
sanctions, including counsel-
ing, probation, suspension,
and expulsion.

Following the review, the
CRC will submit a report to
the Student Affairs Commit-
tee (SAC). ‘The SAC, which
is the committee responsible
for all matters relating to stu-
dent life, then will report to
the university faculty, giving
its recommendations con-
cerning the CRC’s policies
and the University’s policy on
harassment. The faculty will
make the final decision on the
recommendations.

 

 

ie

a.

 

Social calendar full in March at Washington and Lee

Washington and Lee will
have its own version of March
Madness this spring.

Plans are already under-
way for two of Washington
and Lee’s traditional celebra-
tions, the 1992 Mock Con-
vention and the 85th annual
Fancy Dress Ball, both of
which will be held in March.

The Mock Convention
will be held March 6-7 in
Washington and Lee’s Warner
Center. It is the earliest the
Mock Convention has ever
been held, but organizers
believe the early date will
ensure that W&L’s pick will

be “a prediction rather than a
coronation of the nominee.”

Michael Dukakis, the
1988 Democratic presidential
nominee, and ‘Tip O'Neill,
the former Speaker of the
House, will speak at the
convention on March 6. ‘The
organizers of the event also
have sent invitations to every
announced Democratic
candidate, as well as the Rev.
Jesse Jackson and southern
Democrats Ernest Hollings
and Wyche Fowler.

‘The traditional Mock
Convention parade will be
held March 6 at 10 a.m. Con-

 

Firefighters were helped by using Skylark as a landing field.

Skylark helps in fighting forest fire

 

Washington and Lee’s pastoral conference center at Skylark
Farm found itself in the middle of the battle against dangerous
forest fires that threatened much of Nelson County in October.
In fact, the farm proved to be an asset in fighting the blazes.

The mountaintop clearing at Skylark was used as a helicop-
ter landing area to aid in firefighting efforts on ‘lorry Ridge near
Sherando. The forest fire on Torry Mountain came within three
miles of Skylark, W&L’s 365-acre conference center. ‘The fire
was one of many reported in the Blue Ridge Parkway area in the
month of October.

Skylark provided a safer, less congested landing and takeoff
area for a U.S. Forest Service helicopter. ‘The helicopter was
used to take supplies to firefighters and to bring 100 gallons of
water at a time to help string hose.

The site at Skylark, which is sometimes used as a croquet
court, was ideal because of its close proximity to the endangered
areas of Skylark, Wintergreen, and the rest of Nelson County,
and because it kept the helicopter away from the congested
parkway traffic.

vention sessions will begin at
2 p.m. Friday afternoon, 7 p.m.
Friday night, and 10 a.m.
Saturday. People interested
in more information about
Mock Convention or about
hotel accommodations should
contact the Mock Convention
Office at (703) 463-8579.

Fancy Dress Weekend
will be March 26-29 with a
concert in the Student Acti-
vities Pavilion scheduled for
‘Thursday, March 26 and the
ball in the Warner Center set
for Friday, March 27.

‘Tickets for the ball are
$40 per couple and may be

obtained from the Student
Activities Board, University
Center, Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Va.,
24450.

According to Elizabeth
Vallotton of the SAB, rooms
have been reserved for alumni
at area hotels. ‘These rooms
will be released two weeks
before the ball, so reservations
should be made as soon as
possible. ‘The SAB phone
number for ticket information
and hotel accommodations is
(703) 463-8572.

Banse, Marion named Trustees

Robert L. Banse, ’53L, of
Lawrenceville, N.J., and J.
Hardin Marion, ’55, ’58L, of
Baltimore have been elected
as new member of the W&L
Board of ‘Trustees.

A native of Philadelphia,
Banse received his B.S. in
economics from the Wharton
School at the University of
Pennsylvania in 1949. He was
a cum laude graduate of the
W&L Law School. Banse has
spent most of his career with
Merck & Co., Inc., of Rahway,
N.J. Merck & Co. is one of
the world’s largest pharma-
ceutical manufacturing com-
panies. Beginning as an attor-
ney there in 1955, he became
general counsel in 1975, vice
president and general counsel
in 1977, senior vice president
and general counsel in 1986,
and senior vice president in
1991.

Banse is a member of the
American Law Institute, Asso-
ciation of General Counsel,
American Bar Association, and
the Pharmaceutical Manufac-
turers Association.

Hardin Marion is a
summa cum laude graduate of
the W&L Law School, where

 

a %
1

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 31

a

 

he served as the editor-in-
chief of 7he Law Review.
From 1961 to 1963, he served
as assistant United States
attorney for the district of
Maryland. From 1965 to 1967,
he was an administrative
assistant to U.S. Sen. Joseph
D. ‘Tydings. In 1967-68, he
served as an elected delegate
to the Maryland Constitu-
tional Convention.

In 1967, Marion joined
the Baltimore law firm of
‘Tydings and Rosenberg, and
he has been managing partner
since 1968. As trial counsel, he
has represented a number of
major national corporations in
lawsuits involving areas such
as equal employment law,
insurance coverage, commer-
cial litigation, patent infringe-
ment, and contract and
franchise disputes.

Marion served as chair-
man of the Annual Fund from
1987-89, and in 1989, he re-
ceived the University’s Distin-
guished Alumnus Award. In
addition to his duties as a
trustee, he recently completed
a term as president of the Law
Council.

 

 

 

D’souza speaks to W&L about liberal education

Education writer and political analyst Dinesh D’Souza told a
Lee Chapel audience that the nation’s higher education system
needs to be wary of practices carried out in the name of liberal
education that are anything but liberating.

D’Souza, noted author of ///iberal Education: The Politics of
Race and Sex on Campus, has been on the forefront of the national
debate over multi-culturalism and political correctness on the
campuses of colleges nationwide. He was invited to speak at
Washington and Lee as the first speaker in the 1991-92 Contact

Lecture series.

D’Souza’s message in both his book and his speech centers

on a revicw of specific practices at specific colleges on the levels
of administration, admissions, and curriculum. He focused his
remarks at Washington and Lee on the topics of affirmative

action, political correctness, multi-culturalism, and diversity.

Below are some excerpts from his remarks:

In his studies, D’Souza found many college curricula ex-
panding to include the writings of other cultures. But rather than
a healthy expansion, D’Souza found a skewed or selected repre-
sentation that reflected neither the society it was supposed to
represent or the best thinking and writing that society had to offer.

“Universities are trying to prepare young people to live in
and to govern an increasingly multi-racial society,” he said.
“America is becoming such a society....But the real issue seems
not to be whether students should read Plato and the Western
tradition, or the Koran and the Eastern tradition, because one
problem is a lot of students are graduating from college without
reading either.”

D’Souza said higher education ts

 

 

U.S. News calls W&L best buy in colleges

For the third year in a
row, Washington and Lee has
been named the No. 1 best
buy in liberal arts colleges and
universities by U.S. News ©
World Report.

And for the fifth consecu-
tive year, the University has
been ranked among the
nation’s top 25 liberal arts
colleges and universities.

In its Sept. 30 issue, the
magazine divided the nation’s
top schools into two catego-
ries: national universities and
national liberal arts colleges.
Washington and Lee’s low

 

 

tuition rate—$11,575 for the
1991-92 academic year—was
responsible for the “Best Buy”
designation. W&L’s tuition
was nearly $1,500 cheaper than
its nearest national liberal arts
competitor, Davidson.

Washington and Lee was
ranked 22nd in the national
liberal arts category, in between
Davidson (21st) and Holy
Cross (23rd). Williams College
was at No. 1, followed by
Swarthmore, Amherst, Bowdoin,
and Pomona in the top five.
The only other Virginia institu-
tion mentioned in the two

also falling victim to a quota system in
admissions that often places students
according to what they are rather than
what they know.

D’Souza, who took questions from
the audience for a half-hour following his
speech, stressed that he was strongly in
favor of a liberal, multi-cultural, diverse
educational experience. But, he said,
forcing the educational experience to
meet one of those requirements naturally
tends to distort reality. For D’Souza, a
forced liberal education naturally stifles
the free transmission of ideas.

“What liberal education should be
about is crossing cultural boundaries,”
he said. “Liberal education should help
us establish bridges and communication
across the chasms of culture. It should
help us make precisely those empathetic
leaps that allow us to truly experience
other cultures in their similarities, as
well as their differences.”

 

ranked the top 25 national
liberal arts colleges. W&L was
25th in 1987, 23rd in 1988, 18th
in 1989, and 15th in 1990.

U.S. News bases its rankings
on the selectivity of a school’s
student body; the degree to
which it financially supports a
high-quality, full-time faculty;
its overall financial resources;
and the level of student satis-
faction. ‘The magazine’s
ranking system combines sta-
tistics with the results of a
survey of academic reputations.

categories was Virginia, which
was 21st among national
universities.

W&L has been featured
every year since the magazine
began doing surveys in 1983.
That year, W&L was No. 1
among “smaller comprehen-
sive universities” east of the
Mississippi. In the next
survey in 1985, W&L was
moved into the more
prestigious “national liberal
arts” category and was listed
alphabetically among the top
90 schools in the nation.

Since 1987, U.S. News has

 

 

“ PAGE 32/ THE

GAZETTE “© 4

 

 

ke

 

Sessions named
associate dean

W. Lad Sessions, profes-
sor of philosophy at Washing-
ton and Lee, has been ap-
pointed associate dean of the
College at W&L. He will
serve a three-year term, com-
mencing July 1, 1992.

Sessions will succeed H.
Laurent Boetsch Jr., who will
return full-time to the depart-
ment of romance languages
where he will teach Spanish.
Boetsch has served as asso-
ciate dean since 1989.

Sessions will continue to
teach in the philosophy depar-
tment on a limited basis.

“Lad has been an impor-
tant member of the faculty for
20 years,” said John W. Elrod,
dean of the College. “His
wide-ranging institutional
knowledge and ecumenical
interests will serve us ex-
tremely well during his time
in this office.”

Sessions received his B.A.
from the University of Color-
ado, his M.A. from Columbia,
and his Ph.D. from Yale. He
also studied at Mansfield
College, Oxford, in 1967-68.

Sessions was director of
the University Scholars Pro-
gram at W&L from 1986-90,
and he was a member of the
faculty for the Washington
and Lee Institute for Execu-
tives from 1981-86. He was a
visiting professor of philosophy
at St. Olaf College in Minnesota
during the 1985-86 academic
year.

A member of the American
Philosophical Association and
vice president of the Society
for Philosophy of Religion, he
is also the author of many
articles and reviews in various
scholarly journals.

As associate dean of the
College, Sessions will be res-
ponsible for graduate fellow-
ships, academic advising, the
Robert E. Lee Research
program, and international
study programs.

 

fe

 

 

 

Inside the Reeves Center, Mullin and Harbison, ’79 discuss one of Harbison’s most recent paintings.

Harbison, ’79, takes advantage of ‘perfect opportunity’

Washington and Lee’s Reeves Center
doesn’t normally have an artist-in-residence,
but thanks to a special commission and the
center’s prized porcelain collection, one New
York artist found himself setting up shop in
Lexington.

‘Through a commission from Susan Mullin,
the wife of W&L trustee John Mullin, 63,
painter ‘l‘aylor Harbison, ’79, spent three weeks
in October reliving W&L memories while
working on his craft in the Reeves Center.

For the last several years, Harbison has
made his living painting portraits, landscapes,
and still lifes. Although he lives in Brooklyn,
N.Y., Harbison divides his time about equally
between New York and Virginia.

Earlier this year, Harbison was commis-
sioned by Mullin to paint a still life of select
porcelain from the Reeves Center combined
with pieces from her own collection.

“IT was looking for the chance to come back
to Lexington and do some work, and this
provided me with the perfect opportunity,”
said Harbison.

In addition to painting Mullin’s still life, he
worked on some portrait paintings and traveled
around Rockbridge County looking for suitable
landscapes. With a temporary studio set up in
the front room of the Reeves Center, Harbison
made himself available for questions from in-
terested students during the month he was at
W&L.

“I really did feel like an artist-in-residence
the short time I was here,” he said. “I lectured

on studio art to groups of students at the
Reeves Center, and I found a good deal of in-
terest among the researchers and interns there.”

Harbison has been a full-time artist for the
last seven years. After W&L, he studied at the
Art Students’ League, one of the oldest art
schools in New York. ‘Then, after a brief
attempt at an acting career, he decided to
devote himself to the visual arts.

“With the visual arts, I was finally able to
follow my own particular vision,” he explained.

Harbison, who created his own major while
at W&L, credits two former members of the
fine arts department with giving him the
inspiration to become an artist: Dr. I-Hsiung Ju
and Isabel Mcllvain.

“They created a perfect balance between
them,” he said. “Dr. Ju, who gave constant
affirmation and encouragement, and Isabel,
who stressed technique, giving me the freedom
that comes with discipline, they were real
inspirations to me, proof that one could make
art a career.”

Harbison, whose father and younger
brother also attended W&L, noticed many
changes from his time as a student, but he
added he still felt the same allure of the
Colonnade.

“IT would love to come back and devote
myself to a series of paintings of the Colon-
nade,” he said. “There is a quality of timeless-
ness about the campus itself that just doesn’t

change.”
—William Cocke

 

l

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 33 @ |

 

 

J

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Agents gather for

annual event

Gather 40 alumni, their spouses and
guests, and members of the faculty and
administration, stir it up with a good mix-
ture of fun and a hefty dose of serious talk
about an issue crucial to the continuing
success of the University, and what have
you got?

‘The Class Agents’ Weekend, of
course!

‘The annual event, held September
20-21 in Lexington, brought more than
one-third of the Class Agent forces to the
campus to celebrate the success of the
1990-91 Annual Fund and review plans
for the 1991-92 efforts.

“The continuing success of the
Annual Fund and our ability to raise
unrestricted gifts to the University’s
current operations has a direct impact on
the success of W&L,” said John C.
Moore, *66, °73L, the newly appointed
chairman of the Annual Fund effort.

Moore, who suc-

 

 

ceeded Mason ‘T’. New,
62, as chairman, began
the Saturday morning

workshop by congratu-

lating the volunteers in attendance for
their work on the successful 1991 effort,
but he cau-tioned everyone not to be
complacent. ‘The 1991 Annual Fund
exceeded its goal and closed with more
than $2.17 million in gifts.

“Our 1992 goal is 2.2 million,” Moore
said, “and our great success last year only
means we've got a lot of work to do.”

Annual Fund mailings from the
University and correspondence from the
Class Agents have continued throughout
the fall. “The Annual Fund campaign,
which began July 1 and will run through
June 30, 1992, is slated to account for
more than seven percent of Washington
and Lee’s unrestricted operating income
for the 1992 fiscal year.

 

 

CLASS AGENTS—(front row, left) Alan Tomlin, ’69, Jim Baldwin, '83,
Van Pate, ’71, John Cocklereese, ’76, °79L, Charlie Treadgold, ’49, Mike
McGarry, '87, Christopher de Movellan, 89, Bennett Ross, ’83; (2nd row)
Phil Norwood, ’69, Ross Hersey, 40, John Moore, 66, ’°73L, Fred Batten,
73L, Charlie Longacre, 33, Bill Greer ’49L, Steve Jones, ’79, Vaughan
Gibson, "91L, John Wolf, 69, ’72L; (back row) Al Darby, ’43, Bill Coffin,
‘65L, Andy McCutcheon, '48, Buddy Somerville, ’55, Brooks Pettus, ’90,
Marv Moreland, ’56, Al Fleishman, ’41, John Cleghorn, ’84, Peter Keefe,
78, David Weaver, ’81L, Tripp Brower, 82, Randy Ellis, ’86, Matt
Anthony, ’85, "90L, Brad Watkins, ’88, John Falk, ’86, "90L, Sidney
Simmons, ’80, Powell Starks, ’S8L. At left, John Cleghorn, ’84, listens in

during a Class Agents seminar session.

 

ae

PAGE 34/ THE

GAZE TIE

+¢ |

 

 

 

Bauer elected to Lacrosse Hall

Theodore W. “Ted” Bauer, 74, a quick, scrappy midfielder
on the best Washington and Lee lacrosse teams ever, will become
the first General ever inducted into the Lacrosse Hall of Fame
when he receives the honor in February.

Bauer, a three-time All-American on the W&L teams from
1972-74, helped the Generals to three straight NCAA Tourna-
ment appearances, including semifinal finishes in 1973 and 1974.
Bauer was one of only two W&L players to be named a first team
All-American three times in his career. He shares the W&L
record for assists in a game with seven and is sixth on the all-time
W&L scoring list with 163 career points. During his four-year
career, W&L posted a 50-7 record.

In 1974, Bauer was selected to play in the North-South All-
Star game, and he was a member of the U.S. team at the 1974
World Lacrosse Championships in Melbourne, Australia. Bauer played for the Chesapeake
Lacrosse Club from 1975-82 and was named to the national Club Lacrosse All-Star team in 1975,

1976, and 1977.

Since 1980, Bauer has been on the U.S. Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association’s All-American
Selection Committee, serving as its chairman since 1983.

Bauer is one of six former players and coaches named to this year’s class of inductees in the
Lacrosse Hall of Fame. ‘The Hall of Fame induction ceremonies will be held Feb. 8 at the
Sheraton Towson Hotel in Baltimore. ‘Tickets to the black-tie affair may be reserved by calling
‘The Lacrosse Foundation, (410) 235-6882.

Scholarship
in the works
for Stephenson

B.S. “Steve” Stephenson,
longtime and legendary pro-
fessor at Washington and Lee,
has been honored by his former
students with a scholarship
bearing his name.

The B.S. Stephenson
Scholarship will be given
annually to academically
strong German majors who
demonstrate a financial need.

‘The scholarship was the
brainchild of J. Baxter Sharp
III, °88, who orchestrated the
initial fund-raising efforts for
the scholarship. The award
was established to honor
Stephenson, who retired July
1 after 45 years at Washington
and Lee University.

The University requires
$50,000 to establish a scholar-
ship, and currently, the
Stephenson Scholarship is
over 60 percent toward its
goal. ‘Those interested in
making contributions to the
scholarship fund should con-
tact the Development Office.

 

Ariel seeks
submissions
from alumni

The staff of Arve/, Wash-
ington and Lee’s student
literary magazine, is seeking
contributions of poetry, prose,
or artwork from alumni.

‘The magazine began ac-
cepting alumni contributions
last year, and last year’s suc-
cessful efforts have encour-
aged this year’s editors to
continue the practice. The
magazine is seeking contribu-
tions for its spring issue.

Submissions should be
sent to Ame/, University
Center, c/o Ms. Carol Calkins,
Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, VA 24450.
The Ariel can be contacted by
phone at (703) 463-8987.

 

 

‘The Bookshelf

The Literate Person’s Guide to Naming a Cat
BY LAWRENCE JARCHOW, ’50

(Thorntree Press)

Jarchow lets his love for cats and his wit run wild in this
illustrated guide for prospective cat parents in the know. He
combines his love of puns, his love of cats, and his sense of
historical figures in this little book. ‘The author mixes cat
characteristics with famous men and women of history and
comes up with names that leave your average Snowball or Sam
choking on her own fur balls.

Listed are 87 potential cat names and the list is accompanied
with caricatures by Peggy Shearn. A brief description of the
cat, followed by a description of the famous figure, is part of
each entry.

Here’s an example: “Hissabella—When this Hispanic
Queen leaped at the chance to finance Columbus, she became
the catalyst of America’s discovery. Characteristic: ‘There when
you need her....”

Jarchow is president of Edit/Write, a Chicago-based com-
pany specializing in educational materials.

The Real Romantic Marketplace
BY ANDREW (SANDY) RYAN, ’68

(Vantage Press)

The Dating Game. The
Perfect Woman. The Perfect
Man. Andrew Ryan examines
this whole business of men
and women and dating in his

new book and comes up
with a litany of myths and a
few hidden truths.

Ryan studies the some-
times fanciful picture of the

romantic marketplace in the
last decade, that playing
field where single males and
single females jockey for po-
sition and the right partner.
He finds a number of myths
in that picture, primarily that
there are throngs of desirable
women who have it all men-
tally and physically but are
thwarted romantically by
males’ general inadequacy in
quantity, quality, and willing-
ness to make a commitment.

Ryan, a Ph.D. who has
taught philosophy at
prestigious universities and
at a Maximum security
prison, seeks to refute that
central image. Ryan’s view
is that the myth arose
through a sort of reverse
sexism coupled with the
media’s eagerness to sell
books, magazines, and
movies that glorify women
and assuage their self-doubts.

Ryan previously has
appeared in Advertising Age,
The Atlanta Journal-Consti-
tution, Men’s Fitness, and
Playboy.

 

 

 

@ THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 35

+

 

 

 

 

 

LAW NEWS

 

 

From the LSA President...

As President of the Law Council, the governing body of
the Law School Association, I was recently invited by the
editors of this magazine to author this column as part of the
new Law News section, passing along to you some of my
thoughts about the state and direction of the School of Law.

At the risk of seeming to be too unabashed a booster, I’m
pleased to report that recent developments at the Law School
have been on the whole, positive and constructive. My ex-
periences upon frequent visits to Lexington have proven to
me that today’s law students are as bright and qualified and
appealing a group as any in my experience.

A breathtaking leap in both the number and quality of
applicants over the past several years has made W&L one of
the most elite and selective schools in the country. Only one
in 20 applicants is admitted. More importantly, the luxury of
numbers has premitted the Law School to make admissions
decisions with other crucial factors in mind: the type and
quality of undergraduate institution attended, career experi-
ences, leadership qualities, commitment to the profession
and its values and ethics.

‘The individual merits of our students, I think, have been
borne out over the past several months as job placement
success has held steady in the face of a tough economy and
hiring cutbacks by many law firms.

‘This spring, we will dedicate the new physical addition to
Lewis Hall, built to accommodate the personal and profes-
sional papers of Justice Lewis Powell, as well as the signifi-
cant growth in our faculty. (W&L now boasts one of the most
favorable student-to-faculty ratios in all of legal education.)

 

‘The Powell Archives will
honor and celebrate an
esteemed alumnus and will
provide support and access
to these important
documents for legal
scholars and historians.

We also will mark the
40th anniversary of the
Law School Association
and its governing Council.
Forty years ago, the
Association was formed as
an employment resource for students and graduates. ‘Today,
while still fulfilling its original placement function, the LSA
also assists in the admissions process, with educational
programs, and provides significant financial support for
deserving students. In many ways, the development of the
Association has tracked and supported the growth in quality
and reputation that the Law School and its graduates now
enjoy.

In closing and on a personal note, I'd like to say to each
of you how honored I am to serve as President of the Law
School Association. I urge you to involve yourself in the
Association and in all Washington and Lee alumni activities.
‘Truly, the continued strength and future prosperity of the
Law School and the University depend upon your interest,
your support, and your involvement.

 

Sincerely,
Pamela J. White, ’77L
President, Law School Association

 

Immediate past LSA president J. Hardin Marion, ’55,’58L (farleft), and current presi-
dent PamelaJ. White,’77L(farright), flank thisyear’s LSAscholarship winners, Kather-
ine O’Brien, 94, (left, Charles P. Light Scholarship) and Kelly Ann Hardin, 94 (Cather-

ine Feland McDowell Scholarship).

 

Ten law students named
to 92 edition of Who's Who

‘Ten Washington and Lee law students
are listed in the 1992 annual edition of Who’s
Who Among Students in American Untversities
and Colleges.

‘The W&L law students named to the
59th annual edition of Who's Who are the
following: Melissa Edwina Amos (Roanoke,
Va.); Joni Kay Eisenstein (Long Beach,
N.Y.); Kelly Lynn Faglioni (Lexington, Va.);
David Morgan Giles (Grosse Pointe, Mich.);
Rebecca Ann Graves (Chevy Chase, Md.);
Marion Peebles Harrison (McKenney, Va.);
Robert Jeffery Kelsey (Collierville, Tenn.);
Giles Gilpin Perkins (Lufkin, Texas);
Kenneth Eugene Winkfield (Los Angeles);
Mary Townsend Ziebold (Charleston,
W.Va.).

 

she

PAGE 36/THE GAZETTE @ |

 

 

 

 

on

- a

Shaffer looks ‘beyond rules’ in ethics

‘Thomas L. Shaffer, noted legal ethicist and former director
of the Frances Lewis Law Center at Washington and Lee, told a
[Lewis Hall audience that legal ethics are tied to the notion of “a
moral something” that goes beyond the rules set down in typical
legal “professional responsibility” codes.

Shaffer, the Robert and Marion Short Professor of Law at the
University of Notre Dame, delivered the keynote address at
Washington and Lee’s Legal Ethics Institute, which was held
Nov. 8-9 at the W&L School of Law. ‘The ethics institutes at
W&L, which feature Society and the Professions programs in the
areas of business, medicine, journalism, and law, are under the
direction of Professor Louis W. Hodges and are in their seven-
teenth year.

Shaffer said lawyers can find the moral something by study-
ing the history of lawyers, by culling their personal recollections
of legal ethical courage, and by developing a conscious consider-
ation for the religious tradition. Somehow, he said an ethical gap
has opened up between the morality of lawyers as persons and
the rules that govern their business.

“Legal rules have an ironic, if not paradoxical, evolution in
North America,” Shaffer said. “As they become more specific, as
they become more capable of a description of offenses so their
enforcement becomes clear, they become separated from the
moral impulses that gave rise to them.”

‘Those moral impulses, that moral something, according to
Shaffer, is what the ethical lawyer must strive for.

“What’s the matter is the assumption that our moral lives are
determined by rules, or even that they could be,” he explained.
“What interests me is that there is a moral something in legal
ethics that the rules don’t reach, that the rules can’t describe.”

 

LAW NEWS

 

ee - be Dal aa —
ve *

.
pre

The Powell Wing at Lewis Hall is in the final stages of construction, as seen in this December photo. The wing is expected to be fully completed
by February. The special addition to the Law School will house the personal and professional papers of former U.S. Supreme Court Justice Lewis
F. Powell Jr.,’29,’’31L. The Powell Wing will be dedicated in a special ceremony on April 4. The dedication will be part of a three-day Powell
symposium to run April 2-4 at Washington and Lee. The symposium, titled “Contemporary Challenges to Judging: History, Politics, and Values,”
will feature many noted legal historians, judges, and educators, as well as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, William H. Rehnquist.

 

A ee — —_——

Shaffersays the ethicallawyer strives to find ‘the moralsomething’

Shaffer said he finds that moral something present in law
students, but he also sees it slowly sublimated as their legal
education continues.

“They've learned in law school to push the moral something
below the level of their professional consciousness and to follow
the rules instead,” he said. “My point simply ts that that push is
not consistent with the tradition of American lawyers.”

A leading legal scholar, Shaffer is the author of over 240
articles, books and lectures on a variety of legal, ethical, and
religious subjects. Among his books on ethics are Faith and the
Professions, On Being a Christian and a Lawyer, and American Legal
Ethics. He served in a number of law faculty capacities at W&L
from 1979-88, including Frances Lewis Scholar-in-Residence
and Robert E.R. Huntley Professor of Law.

 

 

| ae

 

> THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 37 «> |

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI

N

HWS

 

General gridiron

day gatherings

‘The arrival of fall means
the arrival of football, and in
Washington and Lee circles at
least, the arrival of football
means the arrival of alumni
tailgate parties. A number of
tailgating events were held
this season to welcome and
cheer on the Generals during
road games. In October, the
Richmond alumni held a
tailgate party in Ashland, Va.,
prior to the Generals’ clash
with Randolph-Macon.

Later in the month, the
Middle ‘Tennessee chapter
gathered at the Cloister at
Sewanee, the home of Cathy
and Clay Jackson, ’76, for a
post-game barbecue when
W&L met Sewanee.

In November, the Wash-
ington, D.C., chapter played
host to a chapter seminar and
then a tailgate party prior to
the Generals’ stirring season-
finale win at Georgetown. Pro-
fessor of history and Univer-
sity Historian I. ‘Taylor Sanders
and J. Holt Merchant, ’61, pro-
fessor of history, conducted
the seminar titled, “Robert E.
Lee: Soldier and Educator.”
‘The seminar was hosted by
W&L Director of Alumni
Affairs Jim Farrar, Jr., °74, and
Mimi Milner Elrod, associate
director of special programs.
Following the seminar, a tail-
gate lunch party was held at
Georgetown prior to the
Generals’ stirring win.

Lasttimeonthelinks

The fall weather stayed
warm enough in spots for
some W&L end-of-summer
golf events. ‘The Houston
chapter held an outing at the
Inwood Forest Golf Club in

October, while the New
Orleans chapter held its first
annual “Golf Classic” at the
New Orleans Country Club.
‘The November event was a
four-ball scramble format.

Thedrinks
areon W&L

Rain, snow, sleet, or
shine, there’s never a bad
time for a cocktail party, and
W&L chapters far and wide
found fall a good time for a
party. Young alumni in Rich-
mond gathered for cocktails at
Bottoms Up Pizza in the

a

 

ra ies

4 1 f "

|

eT
vs

Fromtop: WASHING

 

    

TON, D.C.—W&L-Georgetown tailgaters in-

cluded Vernon Holleman, ’58, Eric Myers,’82,Gary Campbell, 88,

and Stuart Houston, ’7

1,’74L; while prior tothe game (middle), Bill

MacLeod,’73, Bud Bowie, ’80, Professor Holt Merchant, ’61,Julie
Dudley, and Professor Taylor Sanders posed at the Lee Seminar.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA— Bottom) Area chapter presidents
(left) Rufus Young, ’62(San Diego), Jeff Cohen, '87 (Los Angeles), and
Jack Norberg,’79(Orange County) hada board meetingin Los

Angelesin November.

 

 

“* PAGE 38/ THE

GAZETTE

7
“

—

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI

 

NEWS

¥

Clockwise from top: WASHINGTON, D.C.—Gathered at the Hay-Adams Hotel fora “University Update” program are (left) Taylor Houck,
"90, Ashley Hoopes, ’90, David Allen, 90, Chris Giblin, ’90,and Janelle Zarecor,’91.0RANGE COUNTY—David Comegys, 54, (left)andJan
and Herrick Hanson, 56, take a break from the chapter meeting in November. TIDE WATE R—Peter Agelasto, '62, (left), Jane Carty,Jim

Carty, ’62,and Betsy Agelastosharealaugh at their picnicaat Talbot Hall.

Shockoe Bottom area of Rich-
mond in September. In Octo-
Ober, New York City alumni
met for aa Fall Kick-off Party
at the North River Bar. ‘The
Charleston, S.C., alumni held
a cocktail party at the home of
Robert Clement, ’79, in No-
vember. Also in November,
the San Diego chapter con-
vened at the B Street Cafe for
Happy Hour. They welcomed
special guest Dick Sessoms,
W&L director of major gifts.

ice

‘The Palmetto chapter
held a cocktail reception at
the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Julius Walker McKay, parents
of Walker McKay Jr., °87, in
Columbia in November.

‘Tidewater alumni met for
a fall picnic at ‘Talbot Hall on
the Lafayette River. W&L
Assistant Alumni Director Rob
Mish, ’76, was a special guest
at the event.

A couple of special cock-
tail parties that included

representatives from many
Virginia colleges also were
held this fall. “he Denver
chapter participated in “the
hottest party in town” with
fellow Virginia college alumni
in October at the Old No. 1
Firehouse Restaurant. And in
November, the Chicago chap-
ter gathered with Hollins gra-
duates fora Happy Hour at
the Eccentric, while the Char-
leston, W.Va., W&L alumni
gathered with Hollins,

 

°,

|

> THE GAZETTE /:PAGE:39 «©

1

J

Hampden-Sydney, Mary
Baldwin, Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College, Sweet
Briar, Richmond, Virginia, and
William & Mary alumni for an
Old Dominion Cocktail Party.

Speaking of W&L

New students, prospec-
tive students, and university
updates were the themes of a
number of fall alumni chapter

 

 

 

ALUMNI

NEWS

 

 

events. Incoming freshmen
were welcomed at the home
of Mr. and Mrs. Dave Fraser,
62, and Katharine Fraser, ’93,
in late August.

Prospective students were
the topic of interest at a New
Orleans chapter meeting in
September. W&L Dean of
Admissions and Financial Aid
William M. Hartog was the
special guest at the event,
held at the home of Vereen
and Madison Woodward, ’81.
There also was a prospective
student reception in Charles-
ton, W.Va., in November.
W&L Admissions Counselor
Rob Aliff, "91, a West Virginia
native, gave a presentation at
the reception.

‘Two W&L campus
update audio-visual presenta-
tions were given by Sessoms
in October. Sessoms spoke to
the Arkansas chapter at a cock-
tail reception at the home of
Mary and Dean Kumpuris,
70. He also spoke at a recep-
tion at the San Antonio Country
Club, hosted by the San
Antonio chapter.

A “W&L Today” update
was the focus of an October
meeting for the Washington,
D.C., chapter. John Elrod,
W&L vice president for aca-
demic affairs and-dean of the
College; Farris Hotchkiss, °58,

en ie °

 

7

, sep
j , fw “ty
- *

vice president for university
relations; and Farrar were
special guests at the reception,
which was held at the Hay-
Adams Hotel.

President John D. Wilson
was the featured speaker at a
special Richmond alumni
reception in October. ‘The
event was held in the Empire
Room of the Jefferson Hotel.

Otherchapter events

‘There were a number of

 

"

other special chapter events
this fall, including seminars,

speakers, polo, and wine.
San Diego chapter met in
October at the Rancho Sa
Fe Polo Club for the Old
Dominion Day Polo Gam

‘The Baltimore alumni met in
November for a luncheon at
‘The Center Club. John O.

Marsh Jr., °51L, a former

Secretary of the Army and
Virginia representative, spoke

on the topic, “Changes in
United States National
Security Policy.”

Left: NEWORLEANS— Fromleft)
Buddy Ronaldson,’63, Andy Schroeder,
‘66L, and Marshall Weaver, ’77, pause
during a break at their reception for
prospective students and special guest,
W&L Dean of Admissions William
Hartog. Below: SAN FRANCISCO —
(Fromleft) Beaub Gillespie, 90, Greg
Hartman,’89, Kent Hillegas,’91,and
Nico Hayes,’91, gather arounda table full
of Nappa Valley wine during the chapter's
special wine-tasting event, hosted by wine
expert Frederick L. Dante,’75.

 

In Atlanta, Sanders and
Merchant presented their

The Robert E. Lee seminar with
Farrar and Mimi Elrod serving

nta as hosts. ‘he event was held
at the Atlanta Historical

es. Society.

‘The San Francisco chap-
ter held a special event in late
November. Frederick L.
Dame, ’75, a wine expert, con-
ducted a champagne-tasting
reception and luncheon for the
chapter at the Sterling Vine-
yards. W&L’s Sessoms was a
special guest at the event.

the

 

oe

PAGE 40/ THE

GAZE a1 E 5@®

a

 

‘UheGenerals’ Report

BY BRIAN LOGUE

 

(ioaches at all levels of
athletics like to judge their
teams by levels of improve-
ment over the course of the
season. At Washington and
Lee this fall, the coaches saw
that improvement in leaps

and bounds.

Page Remillard’s water polo team
entered the first Eastern Tournament
this season as the 15th seed in a 16-
team field. By November, they were
the sixth-best team of all schools in the

Lyle Smith (39) levels an opposing ball-carrier in

 

  

Ee EN oie ee ee ee ee ee ee eae
W&L’s loss to Guilford as John McCallum(37) and Marc Newman (10) lay in wait.

East and the No. 1 Division III team in
the East.

Jan Hathorn’s women’s soccer
team opened the season with one win
in its first three games, including a loss
to an unheralded Virginia Wesleyan
squad. By tournament time, W&L had
captured its first-ever Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference regular-season crown.

John ‘Tucker’s men’s cross country
team opened the season with a loss to
Mary Washington. But the Generals
would not lose a dual meet the rest of
the way, finishing 8-1. Junior Bo
Hannah, who would be W&L’s top
runner, finished that Mary Washington
meet with a time of over 27 minutes.

— : FS
Nee eee Naar

 

By season’s end, he was running under
26 minutes and qualifying for the NCAA
Championships.

But nowhere was the improvement
as evident as it was for Gary Fallon’s
football team, which went farther in
one final afternoon than it had in an
entire season.

FOOTBALL

The final books will show that the
1991 Generals finished the season with
a 1-9 record. But ironically, the 1-9
season may have been just what it took
to show how strong the W&L football
foundation is.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 41

Nine weeks went by
without the Generals
tasting victory. ‘There
were moments of
success, and even of
hope, but by that final
Saturday in November,
even the sternest of
W&L faithful would
have been tested,
especially given what
awaited them in the
nation’s capital. But the
Generals were not to be
denied in the season
finale against Georgetown.

‘The 6-3 Hoyas
entered the game as the
top passing team in
Division III, averaging
307 yards a game. ‘They
also came in with designs
on their best season in re-
cent memory, and an out-
side shot at the Division
III playoffs. “The Generals
had little to play for other than them-
selves and W&L football pride. It
proved to be more than enough.

‘The Generals dominated play in
that final contest, taking an early lead
and standing on it through to the end.
W&L merely set a school record with
seven interceptions and sacked
Georgetown quarterbacks eight times.
‘The Hoyas big-game passing attack
was brought to its knees, managing
barely 100 yards. W&L won the game
27-12 and in the process captured back
a healthy share of respect.

John McCallum, a senior defensive
end who was named a second team All-
ODAC selection, led the inspired effort
with four sacks, three tackles for loss, a
forced fumble and a key pass break-up
on a two-point conversion. Defensive
backs Fred Renneker and Bill Harker
each intercepted two passes with
Renneker returning one for a touchdown.

But it didn’t take a win to make
everything right. When it easily could
have quit and packed it in for the season,
this General team just continued to keep
working harder and harder. It was a

42 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Ay vr 4 me 4
- - ae
:

‘ Fee ot 4

 

¥ 1¥ 7 Ps Pr - P ios i. +,’
‘ or - - : “7 fs é ea a) ty
ales r ey | PS if a ae ee wu : -

: ,

a ae
, >.

Soccer standout Nancy Mitchell stops another foe dead in her tracks.

team effort all the way from head coach
Gary Fallon down to the last player off
the bench that showed the commit-
ment this group had to W&L’s way of
doing things.

“Midway through the season the
seniors knew it wasn’t going to be our
year,” McCallum said. “So we just
decided that we had to set an example
for the younger guys.”

‘The younger guys learned the lesson,
and they played a big role in the season.

On offense, freshman Geren Steiner
took over at quarterback, directing the
W&L version of the run-and-shoot
offense. He threw for over 1,000 yards
for the season, despite starting just two
games. Freshman end William Propst
led the ODAC with 37 catches and fresh-
man end Hayne Hodges caught 11
passes while showing big play speed.
Freshman running back Matthew Mogk
had the Generals’ best rushing day of
the season with 89 yards against Guilford,
and freshman Michael MacLane was
the Generals’ do-everything back.
MacLane caught 17 passes and averaged
more than 20 yards a return, including

three returns of 50 yards
or longer.

On defense, fresh-
man Jason Chartrand
moved into the starting
lineup after AIl-ODAC
junior Thomas May
injured his leg in the pre-
season. Chartrand
responded with a big
year, making 65 tackles,
including four sacks.
Linebacker James
Maberry got two starts
after some injury prob-
lems and made 59 tackles
while earning the respect
of the upperclassmen.
Finally, the defensive
backfield showcased three
freshmen who all con-
tributed—cornerback Jon
Wagner, free safety Marc
Newman, and strong
safety Stephen Cox.

But it was the seniors
that Fallon was most proud of. Led by
tri-captains ‘l’rey Cox, Greg Kiehl and
Renneker, the seniors showed the
heart and toughness that Fallon admired.
Kiehl came back from a dislocated
ankle suffered last year to anchor the
line, and Cox came back from a broken
leg, but perhaps it was Renneker who
best exemplified this spirit. In 1990,
Renneker shifted from defensive back
to quarterback and led the Generals to
four wins in its last five games. This
year, Renneker made the switch back to
defense late in the season and keyed the
Georgetown win with his two intercep-
tions, including the touchdown
runback.

Junior punter Bob Ehret was a first
team All-ODAC selection, averaging
38.4 yards a kick, while McCallum was
joined on the all-conference second
team by junior defensive lineman Phil
Spears and senior offensive lineman
Jim Henry.

WOMEN’S SOCCER

Coming into the 1991 season, Jan
Hathorn had big expectations for her

 

—

team. After all, she returned all 11
starters from a squad that had gone 11-6
the year before and advanced to the
finals of the ODAC ‘Tournament.

Well, the Generals met all of the
expectations except one.

Led by ODAC Player of the Year
Nancy Mitchell and All-ODAC goalie
Kate Stimeling, the Generals featured
of one of the best defenses around. W&L
outscored its opponents in the confer-
ence by a combined 22-1 on its way toa
6-1-1 mark in the league and its first-
ever regular-season championship.
Stimeling, just a sophomore, recorded a
school record nine shutouts to raise her
career total to an all-time W&L best 17.

‘The Generals breezed past Sweet
Briar 2-0 in the opening round of the
ODAC ‘Tournament, but then ran into
old nemesis Roanoke in the semifinals.
Roanoke had knocked off W&L 2-1 on
penalty kicks in last year’s championship
game, and their regular-season meeting
this year ended in a 0-0 tie.

Once again, the Lady Maroons
spelled doom for W&L, defeating the
Generals 2-1 in overtime.

Sophomores Karen Stutzmann and
Corinda Hankins led the Generals’
offense with six goal each, and Hankins
was an All-ODAC performer.

WATER POLO

After missing the Eastern Champi-
onships last year—the first time W&L
hadn’t been there since 1977—the
Generals came back with something to
prove this year. They responded with a
sixth-place finish that included a 14-13
triple-overtime win over 16th-ranked
Massachusetts.

‘The Generals finished the season
with a 15-10 record after just a 1-3 start.
‘They also captured their fourth straight
state title.

Senior Alan Herrick, one of the
best defenders anywhere, led the team
with 71 steals and also added 57 goals
to earn first team All-Southern honors.
Seniors Will Davis (59 goals) and John
Kannapell (32 goals) and junior goalie
P.J. Waicus each earned second team
honors.

The Generals’ improvement
during the course of the season was also

demonstrated by their performances
against archrival Richmond. After
losing the first two games of the year to
the Spiders, W&L came back with two
wins over Richmond, including a 10-8
win in the Southern Championships
that earned W&L its spot in the Eastern
Championships.

CROSS COUNTRY

Men’s coach John Tucker knew he
had some proven talent returning in all-
region performers Charles Edwards and
Bo Hannah. But Tucker couldn’t have
dreamed the finish for his talented duo.

The Generals, who hadn’t had a
runner advance to the NCAA Champi-
onships since the legendary Angus
McBryde in 1983, had their best
individual season in awhile thanks to
Edwards and Hannah. The twosome
each ran personal bests at the NCAA
Southeast Regionals, earning all-region
honors again and advancing to the
national meet.

That performance capped a stellar
year for the men’s team, who finished
8-1, including an upset win over

 

 

=

 

 

 

All-Southern water polo player Alan Herrick dunks an opponent at the Southern Tournament in Twombly Pool.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 43

 

Mena McGowin blasts another kill on her way to W&L's all-time career record.

regional champion Lynchburg during
the season.

While the men’s team had talent
and experience, Jim Phemister had to
settle for just talent with his women’s
team. With that talent, the Generals
managed a solid 5-3 season, led by
freshman sensation Kim Herring.

Herring, the younger sister of
W&L’s co-captain Jodi Herring, led the
Generals in every race, earned All-
ODAC honors, and became W&L’s
first-ever female all-region performer.

Junior co-captain Nicole Casteel
also earned All-ODAC honors, but she
was the grandmother of the group. Six
of the top seven in the W&L lineup
were first-year runners, a sign of bigger
things to come.

MEN’S SOCCER
How bad did the injury bug bite the
Generals? Well, head coach Rolf Piranian
did not put his pre-season starting
lineup on the field fora single game.
First, it was senior tri-captain
David Hooker, then junior co-captain

44 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

—

VOLLEYBALL

After struggling through a disap-
pointing 10-20 regular season, W&L
put things together all at once for the
ODAC ‘Tournament. ‘The Generals
recorded the first shutout in school
history with a 15-2, 15-0, 15-2 romp
over Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College in the opening round of the
tourney. ‘Ihe Generals were so
dominating in the match that they
reeled off 33 straight points at one
stretch.

But in the quarterfinals, W&L ran
into a powerful Guilford squad that
would go on to win the championship
and finish the season with a 33-4
record. ‘The Generals didn’t roll over
and die for the Lady Quakers, though,
leading 11-5 in one game before
Guilford came back for the win.

Senior captain Mena McGowin
capped a stellar career by being named
All-ODAC for the third year in a row.
McGowin finished her career as W&L’s
all-time leader in kills, blocks, and

games played.

and offensive wizard Mike Mitchem,
then senior goalie Lee Corbin and
finally defensive enforcer Chase Davis.
All of those pre-season starters went
down during the year and missed huge
chunks of the season.

Sull, the Generals managed to put
together an 8-6-2 season with three of
its losses coming to NCAA ‘Tourna-
ment teams.

As usual, the hallmark of the team
was the defense led by All-ODAC pick
Greg Williams and senior tri-captains
Jeff Zieger and Hooker. ‘The Generals
held opponents to one goal or less in 12
of their 16 games.

On offense, the Generals were led
by AIl-ODAC picks Kyle Fanning, Reid
Murphy, and Dan Rhodes. Murphy led
the team in scoring with nine goals and
two assists. Murphy was the key to the
offense, leading W&L to victory in all
seven games in which he scored. His
hat trick sparked the Generals’ first-
round ODAC ‘Tournament win over

 

Hampden-Sydney. | oe 7
Junior Bo Hannah set the pace for the
W&L cross country team this fall.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Football (1-9)

Emory & Henry 14, W&L 0
Ala.-Birmingham 34, W&L 21
Centre 24, W&L 7
Randolph-Macon 27, W&L 0
Davidson 16, W&L 14
Hampden-Sydney 24, W&L 7
Univ. of the South 21, W&L 13
Bridgewater 29, W&L 7
Guilford 25, W&L 7

W&L 27, Georgetown 12

Men’s Cross Country (8-1)

Mary Washington 25, W&L 34
Wa&L 3rd at Dickinson Invit.

W&L 20, Eastern Mennonite 40
W&L 15, Shepherd 50

W&L 15, Roanoke 50

W&L 18, Catholic 37

W&L 28, Lynchburg 29

WA&L 3rd at State Meet

W&L 1st at W&L Invitational

W&L 21, Eastern Mennonite 34
W&L 15, Hampden-Sydney 48
W&L 19, Bridgewater 41

W&L 2nd at ODAC Championships
W&L 4th at NCAA Southeast Regional

Women’s Cross Country (5-3)

Mary Washington 18, W&L 45
W&L 6th at Dickinson Invitational
W&L 24, Roanoke 33

W&L 15, Shepherd 45

Eastern Mennonite 18, W&L 37
W&L 25, Lynchburg 36

WA&L 6th at State Meet

W&L 3rd at W&L Invitational
Eastern Mennonite 22, W&L 36
W&L 15, Mary Baldwin 50

W&L 3rd at ODAC Championships
W&L 8th at NCAA Southeast Regional

Men’s Soccer (8-6-2)

W&L 2, York 1
Wa&L 1, Franklin & Marshall 1 (OT)

 

 

BOAR DIR

»

»

*

*

*

*

W&L 1, Carnegie Mellon 1 (OT)
W&L 2, Johns Hopkins 1
W&L 2, Guilford 0

Bethany 4, W&L 0

W&L 3, Hampden-Sydney 0
Roanoke 1, W&L 0
Randolph-Macon 1, W&L 0
W&L 2, Greensboro 1

W&L 4, Eastern Mennonite 1
Va. Wesleyan 4, W&L 0
W&L 4, Lynchburg 2

W&L 3, Hampden-Sydney 1
Va. Wesleyan 1, W&L 0
V.M.1. 2, W&L 0

ODAC Tournament

Women’ Soccer (8-5-2)

Denison 2, W&L 1

W&L 3, Lynchburg 0

Va. Wesleyan 1, W&L 0

W&L 10, Rand.-Mac. Woman's 0
W&L 2, Guilford 0

W&L 1, Randolph-Macon 0 (OT)
Gettysburg 3, W&L 2

W&L 0, Roanoke 0 (OT)

W&L 1, Emory 1 (OT)

WA&L 2, Hollins 0

Methodist 5, W&L 0

W&L 4, Sweet Briar 0

W&L 1, Messiah 0

W&L 2, Sweet Briar 0

Roanoke 2, W&L 1 (OT)

ODAC Tournament

Volleyball (11-21)

Pitt-Johnstown def. W&L 2-0
Washington Col. def. W&L 2-0
Albright def. W&L 2-0
Gettysburg def. W&L 2-0
W&L def. Shenandoah 2-0
W&L def. Marymount 2-1

W&L def. Meredith 2-0
Wingate def. W&L 2-0
Washington & Jefferson def. W&L 2-1
Carnegie Mellon def. W&L 2-0
W&L def. Goucher 2-0

Wa&L def. Mary Baldwin 3-0

W&L def. Asbury 2-0
Maryville def. W&L 2-0
W&L def. Oglethorpe 2-1
Guilford def. W&L 3-0
Eastern Mennonite def. W&L 3-0
Roanoke def. W&L 3-1
Wa&L def. Rand.-Mac. Woman's 3-0
Goshen def. W&L 3-0
Bridgewater def. W&L 3-1
Lynchburg def. W&L 3-2
Bridgewater def. W&L 2-0
W&L def. Notre Dame (Md.) 2-1
Western Maryland def. W&L 2-0
Carnegie-Mellon def. W&L 2-1
Wa&L def. Sweet Briar 3-1
Emory & Henry def. W&L 3-0
Ferrum def. W&L 2-1
Hollins def. W&L 3-0
* W&L def. Rand.-Mac. Woman's 3-0
* Guilford def. W&L 3-0
* ODAC Tournament

Water Polo (15-10)

W&L 14, Villanova 5
Army 10, W&L 3
Richmond 9, W&L 7
Boston College 10, W&L 4
* W&L 14, James Madison 6
* W&L 19, Lynchburg 5
* W&L 22, Virginia Tech 3
“ W&L 14, Hampden-Sydney 7
W&L 7, Dayton 4
W&L 15, Hampden-Sydney 2
Richmond 10, W&L 7
Ark.-Little Rock 9, W&L 8
Massachusetts 6, W&L 5
W&L 14, Villanova 13 (2OT)
Army 16, W&L 12
W&L 12, Richmond 9
W&L 11, Hampden-Sydney 6
W&L 10, Hampden-Sydney 8
W&L 17, Hampden-Sydney 6
W&L 10, Richmond 8
Ark.-Little Rock 10, W&L 8
W&L 11, Dayton 9
**Slippery Rock 13, W&L 3
““W&L 14, Massachusetts 13 (3OT)
**Bucknell 9, W&L 6 (2OT)
* Virginia Championships
**Eastern Championships

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 45

 

CLASS NOTES

3 () VIRGINIUS J. (BARNEY)

BARNETT reports that he is
fishing, hunting, gardening, playing golf, and
traveling a great deal. He makes his home in
Pine Bluff, Ark.

CHARLES W. COCKE was given the Veteran
Booster of the Year award by the Veteran
Boosters of Thomasville (Ga.). He was
recognized for serving as commander of two
veteran posts: Disabled American Veterans Post

59, and American Legion Post 31.

9 3 1 ELBERT E. HALL sells life in-
surance for Hall Plus, where he has

worked for more than 60 years. He specializes

in estate and business planning. His home is

in Abilene, ‘Texas.
RICHARD H. RUFF is retired

we
and living in Welch, W.Va. He has

been active with the Little League and has serv-

ed on the Welsh City Commission.
9 3 5 JAMES M. FRANKLIN and his
wife, Peg, are moving to Monti-

cello, a life-care campus with several athletics

facilities and 40 acres of property. They live in
Clearwater, Fla.

JAMES S. WOODS JR. received an award for
60 years’ operation of his amateur radio station,

K4JB. He lives in Sun City West, Ariz.

9 3 6 HENRY H. STAEHLING is vice
president of D.P. Facilities Inc., a

construction company specializing in the design

and construction of computer envelopes for

large mainframe computers. He makes his home

in Bedminster, N.J.

3 7 WILLIAM D. FISHBACK
operates a farm in Versailles, Ky.,

where he raises Angus cattle and thoroughbred

horses that are sold in Lexington, Ky.

CHARLES S. McNULTY JR., of Salem, Va.,
was in Lexington on June 6, 1991, to see his
granddaughter, STEPHANIE McNULTY, ’91,
graduate. He reports that Stephanie is the 9th
generation of his family to attend W&L.

39

CMDR. CHARLES ~— G.
GILMORE, MAJ. GEN. FRANK

 

A. NICHOLS, °40, CMDR. THOMAS H.
McCUTCHEON, °40, and STEPHEN
LEONARD, °40, met for a reunion on Cape
Cod in August. Both Gilmore and McCutcheon
completed over 30 years active and inactive
Naval Reserve duty.

GARRET HIERS JR. enjoys swimming and

‘ surfing in the Atlantic Ocean, and working on

his golf game. He lives in Daytona Beach, Fla.,
with his wife, Marion.

HUGH R. THOMPSON JR. is finishing up his
general law practice in order to accept deferred
judicial retirement. He lives in Richmond, Va.

LAW: JOHN L. HAWKINS II is a consultant
on legal, legislative, and regulatory matters
regarding the towing industry. He lives with his
wife, Mildred, in Longwood, Fla.

9 4() STEPHEN LEONARD (see
CMDR. CHARLES G.

GILMORE, ’39).

CMDR. THOMAS H. McCUTCHEON (see
CMDR. CHARLES G. GILMORE, ’39).

MAJ. GEN. FRANK A. NICHOLS (see
CMDR. CHARLES G. GILMORE, ’39).

 

you had the choice between
45 cents or one dollar, | imagine you
would prefer the dollar. Yet the sad fact remains
that when it comes to estate planning, many
people are taking the 45 cents.

In developing a carefully thought out plan
for your estate, you will want to make sure you
convey as much of your wealth as possible to
your heirs. After a lifetime of thrift, it would be
tragic to have your children’s financial future
diminished by the spectre of significant estate
taxes. Indeed, an individual with a taxable estate
of $3 million would be faced with a federal estate
tax of 55 percent. The key to overcoming this
difficulty lies in establishing a charitable
component in your estate plan.

There is a way that you can make a gift to
Washington and Lee University in the form of
an income stream for a fixed period of time, and

then at the conclusion of that term, convey the

 

PASSING MORE OF YOUR ASSETS

DIRECTLY TO YOUR HEIRS

assets and accrued appreciation in value to your
children with little or no tax consequences to
them or you.

Known technically as a non-grantor
charitable lead annuity trust, this arrangement
can satisfy your desire to provide as large a
benefaction for your children as is possible while
making a significant and immediate investment
in the future of Washington and Lee.

Consider the following illustration: Suppose
you were to place assets with a fair market value
of $100,000 in this type of trust for a fixed period
of 10 years and with W&L to receive an annual
income of six percent ($6,000) from the trust.
The University would receive a total gift of
$60,000 (an amount sufficient to fund a scholar-
ship) in the 10 years. Given the miracle of
compound growth at the level of 10 percent,
your children would ultimately receive a bene-
faction of $163,750. The initial $100,000 would

be removed from your estate and the $63,750 in
growth from the trust would go to your children
with virtually no tax consequences to them.

Since you are ultimately making a gift to
your children, you would not receive a current
income tax deduction for establishment of such
an arrangement. Instead, the gift/estate tax
system would be in effect. In this illustration,
your original $600,000 exemption equivalent
would be reduced by $31,410, leaving a difference
of $563,590 to use in further refinement of your
estate plan.

My colleagues and I would be delighted to
speak with you in connection with this interesting
way of investing in our University’s future. If you
would like to learn more about the charitable lead
trust or any other type of planned gift, please call
me at (703) 463-8425.

David R. Long
Director of Planned Giving

 

 

46 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

ARNOLD M. RAPHAEL owns AMR Inter-
national, a management consultant firm for
businesses. AMR specializes in helping
businesses gain entry to the European market.
Raphael also is a volunteer teacher to English
second-language students in New York City

schools.

9 4 3 DR. JAMES S. PARSONS, whose
home is in Lexington, Va.,

attended the 1991 undergraduate commence-
ment excercises at Washington and Lee.

9 4 5 WALTER E. FRYE teaches adult
education classes in Santa Barabara,

Calif. He is also very active in Little League
baseball.

9 4 6 ROBERT H. GRAY is active with
community and public service non-
profit agencies. He works on community

development and improvement projects in his
hometown of Milwaukee.

"A 9 THE REV. JAMES. T.
MAGRUDER is director of the

Mission Interpretation/Public Relations office
of the Presbyterian Church’s national office in
Louisville, Ky.

CHARLES R. TREADGOLD was recently
profiled in Capital District Business Review. he
article focused on his work in advocating safe-
ty laws in connection with his work as an in-
surance agent. Treadgold, a founder of Hamlin,
Robert & Ridgeway insurance company in Col-
onie, N.Y., has a program on a local radio sta-
tion and also speaks to more than 2,000 peo-
ple a year in person about insurance issues.

) S() DR. JOHN S, CHAPMAN is in
the practice of internal medicine in
Dubuque, Iowa. His office has 16 partners.

LACEY E. PUTNEY, who recently won elec-
tion to another term in the Virginia General
Assembly, was elected to the board of trustees
of Patrick Henry Boys and Girls Plantation on
June 30, 1991.

’ 5 1 THE HON. SOL WACHTLER

was recently elected to a three-year
term on on the National Judicial College board
of directors. He is Chief Judge of the New York
State Court of Appeals, and a 1971 graduate
of the college’s general jurisdiction program.

"52 NR EN tee
May 7-9

THE HON. WILLIAM G. FUQUA was given
the 1991 Distinguished Law Alumni award by
the University of Louisville School of Law.

 

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 47

GEORGE ROWELL retired as circulation
director of Johnston International in 1990. He
now writes for atheist publications, and his ar-
ticles have appeared in Freethought Today, The
American Rationalist, and Free Inquiry. His home
is in New York City.

LAW: THE HON. SOL WACHTLER (see

51).

9 5 3 HERBERT $. FALK JR. was
elected president of the

650-member Greensboro Bar Association. He

is a member of the law firm of Turner, Enochs

& Lloyd in Greensboro, N.C.

DR. CHARLES J. FRIEDLANDER has been
appointed to the Washington, D.C., State Plan-
ning Council for Persons with Disabilities.

DR. LEONARD B. RANSON is human
resource manager at MCI Services Marketing
Inc. in Cedar Rapids, lowa.

THE HON. JOHN M. SHAW is a USS.
District Court judge in Lafayette, La. He was
appointed chief judge for the Western District
of Louisiana earlier this year, and was first ap-
pointed to the bench in 1979. He lives in
Lafayette with his wife, Glenda.

JOHN A. WILLIAMSON II was elected vice
president of the Portland Beavers baseball club

of the Pacific Coast League.

*S4 DR. HERWIG R. BRAND-
STETTER recently was visited by

Washington and Lee German Professor Robert

B. Youngblood in Graz, Austria.

GLENN A. SCOTT has a son, GLENN
ALLEN SCOTT JR., 95, in the freshman class
at W&L. Scott makes his home in Norfolk, Va.
9 5 5 DR. WATSON A. BOWES JR. is

professor of obstetrics and

gynecology at the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill.

W. ANDREW R. DALTON was elected chair-
man of the Missouri Conservation Commission.
The bipartisan commission consists of four
members appointed by the governor. It is
responsible for overseeing the fish, forest, and
wildlife resources of Missouri. Dalton is manag-
ing partner of the law firm of Daniel, Clampett,
Lilley, Dalton, Powell & Cunningham in
Springfield.

THE HON. JOHN M. DUHE JR. is a federal
judge, with the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals in
Louisiana. He has been in the Court of Appeals
for two years.

48 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

9 a 6 DR. JACK A. MORGENSTERN

was named vice president of
medical affairs by Hallmark Healthcare Corp.
in Atlanta. He is board certified in adult
psychiatry, child and adolescent psychiatry, and
administrative psychiatry. His responsibilities
will include development and direction of
clinical matters in the company’s psychiatric
hospital operations.

J. RICHARD O'CONNELL has been named
president and chief operating officer of the KMS
Group, one of the largest developers in the
Baltimore area. O'Connell had been executive
vice president of KMS.

DR. FRANK S. PITTMAN IIL is a psychiatrist
and family therapist in Atlanta. He also writes
a monthly advice column for men in New
Woman.

LAW: JOHN A. WILLIAMSON (see ’53).

: 5 7s May 7-9

ROBERT G. BANNON has been named presi-
dent and chief executive officer of First
American Title Co. of New York, a subsidiary
of First American ‘Title Insurance Co. Bannon
will continue his role as regional vice president
of the Southern New England region. First
American ‘Title Insurance Co. offers title ser-
vices through a network of more than 5,500 of-
fices or agents in all 50 states.

DR. JAMES C. MAYOZA is clinical associate
professor at the University of Oklahoma School
of Medicine, and director of the Oklahoma
Sports Medicine Institute.

GERALD I. MOYER has been traveling to
various sites in the United States and overseas,
doing golf marketing and development work.
He lives in Reston, Va.

LAW: LACEY E. PUTNEY (see °50).

9 5 S W. ROWLAND DENMAN is

president of The Denman Co., a
flooring company in Oklahoma City, Okla. His
father founded the company more than 60 years
ago.

DR. WILLIAM R. GOODMAN JR. recently
organized and led the Lynchburg City Strings
Orchestra tour to Europe. He also has written
an entry on “I Esdras” for the new Anchor Bible
Dictionary.

PHILIPPE LABRO (see JEAN J. STROMAN,
91).

 

JOHN H. ESPERIAN teaches

‘oo
English at the Community College

of Southern Nevada, in Las Vegas.

ROBERT C. KETCHAM retired as chief of
staff of the House committee on Science, Space
& Technology. He currently is consulting for
Bailey, Morris & Robinson in Washington,
D.C.

JERALD H. SKLAR was recently elected
president of the Memphis Jewish Federation.
He practices law at Waring Cox, where he has
been active in the acquisition of small- and
medium-sized businesses.

JAMES A. WOOD is chairman of the Virginia

Beach Board of Zoning Appeals.
9 6 (): A. EUGENE O’DELL JR. is direc-
tor of the Office of Public Informa-

tion in Polk County, Florida.

H. GERALD SHIELDS is deputy headmaster
of KOC Preparatory School in Istanbul, ‘Turkey.
He will become headmaster in the 1992-93
school year.

61

Under the ownership and control
of GEORGE E. GANS III, Paul

Semonin Realtors has almost doubled its sales,
from $256 million to $478 million, securing the
real estate firm’s position at the top of the Ken-
tucky real estate market. Gans, who lives in
Louisville, bought a controlling interest in the
company in 1985.

WINSTON E. KOCK JR.
has been named vice presi-
dent of corporate in-
vestments for Ready Mor- —
tgage Co. He will be
responsible for institutional
investors who participate in
the investments and mort-
gage programs offered by the company. He lives
in Petaluma, Calif.

ROBERT K. PARK II is chief operating officer
of Market Street Mortgage Co. in Tampa, Fla.
His daughter, KATHERINE PARK, °90, is a —
graduate of W&L. Park has attended several
‘Tampa alumni events, and hosted two members
of the University Chorus during their 1991
Southern tour.

"62 May 79

JAMES N. APPLEBAUM has been elected to
the board of No Curtain Theater, a new
Washington, D.C., performing arts company.
‘The company’s focus is on importing and stag- —
ing contemporary drama from Eastern Europe.

JAMES A. GWINN JR. has formed The Gwinn
Co.. representing Mass Mutual, in Houston.
The company specializes in estate and business
continuation planning and employee benefit
consultation and planning.

K. DOUGLAS MARTIN recently became vice
chairman and chief operating officer of Primerica
Financial Services, a $2.4 billion company
located in Atlanta. The company sells in-
surance, mutual funds and makes consumer

loans.

GREGORY R. McNAB JR. recently completed
20 years on the faculty of the University of
Rhode Island. He is currently professor of

Portugese.

STEVE RUTLEDGE (see R.K. BARTON,
63).

LAW: ROBERT C. KETCHAM (see °59).

6 3 R.K. BARTON, TOM RIDE-

OUT, SANDY FENN, DAVE
MUNROE, and STEVE RUTLEDGE, °62,
had a reunion at the Shanty Creek resort in
Bellaire, Mich. Barton reports that the group

plans another reunion for the summer of 1993,
in upstate New York.

WILLIAM H. CANDLER is editor of Port
Kolo, a weekly art, entertainment and lifestyle
magazine for the Hampton Roads region of
Virginia, and editor of Senior Times, a publica-
tion for senior citizens.

6 4 CAPT. JAY F. JACOT is the
Naval Reserve representative to

the general counsel of the Defense Logistics
Agency in Portsmouth, R.I.

DR. THOMAS C. LEWIS served as an
anesthesiologist in Germany during Operation
Desert Storm. He lives in Nashville, Tenn., and
is a member of the Tennessee Army National
Guard.

ROGER W. PAINE III is finishing a novel titled
The Dice of God. The novel is set at Yale Divinity
School in the mid 1960s. Paine lives in Cam-
bridge, Mass.

DR. PETER S. TRAGER was awarded a
fellowship in the American College of Dentists
during the formal academic ceremonies held in
Seattle. Trager lives in Marietta, Ga.

S. GWATHMEY TYLER III has insurance
brokerage firms in Louisville, Ky., and In-
dianapolis. He opened the Louisville office of
Tyler Associates Inc. in March 1989, and the
Indianapolis office in October 1990.

LAW: ROBERT G. BANNON (see °57).

 

 

 

Levitan’s incorrectly spelled name on the menu (Photo by Jeff Taylor, Montgomery Journal)

Long-time legislator Larry Levitan, 55,
is the next-best thing to sliced bread

Larry Levitan, ‘55, has been
fighting the legislative wars as a
Maryland state senator for more than
20 years. He finally has reached the
pinnacle of success.

Majority leader? Speaker of the
House? Candidate for governor?

No, no, no, it’s something much
bigger. He’s finally got his own
sandwich.

This summer, Levitan, a regular at
Annapolis’ famed Chick’n’Ruth’s Del-
ly, was bestowed with the honor of
having a sandwich named after him
at the popular delicatessen of the
State’s top politcal players.

‘| don’t know if you can get much
higher,’”’ joked Levitan, who has been
democratic senator in Maryland since
1971. “I’ve been waiting 20 years for
this, and that’s about as long as I’ve
been eating there, too. You really
have finally arrived once they name
a sandwich after you.”

Ted Levitt, co-owner of the
restaurant, said it was time Levitan got
his own sandwich.

“He’s just a super guy,” said
Levitt, who helps select sandwich
honorees with his father, Chick, the
original owner of the deli, which has
been a fixture in downtown An-
napolis since 1965. ‘‘Dad and | try to
pick out real good, down-to-earth
people like Senator Levitan. We think

| Le Lo

it’s a special honor. We don’t name
just anybody.”’

And Levitan’s sandwich isn’t just
any sandwich. Hot pastrami is piled
high and then covered with Swiss
cheese and a smattering of Russian
dressing. Then the sandwich is grilled
on rye bread.

Levitan admits the cholesterol is
kind of high, but he says it’s a good
sandwich.

“This is an excellent sandwich,”’
he said. “‘It’s the way they grill it that
really makes it.’’

Levitt says Levitan’s sandwich is
pretty safe politically, too, although
they did spell his name incorrectly on
the menu.

‘‘There’s no bologna, no hot dog,’’
he said. ‘I don’t think he can get in
trouble with that. In fact, with his
sandwich, people are really ordering
it by name, not by its number on the
menu.”

The sandwich will keep Levitan’s
name as long as he stays in office, too,
Levitt said. However, having such a
political boost to your career as your
own sandwich could mean bigger
and better things for Levitan. He
might even give some thought to run-
ning for governor in the near future.

And why not, says Levitt, ‘‘with
this sandwich named after him, he
could be president someday.”’

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 49

6 5 T. PATTON ADAMS IV was
named head of the South Carolina
Defense Base Development Commission by
South Carolina Gov. Carroll Campbell. The
commission is responsible for protecting and
enhancing the presence of the military in South
Carolina. Adams, a former mayor of Columbia,
S.C., is a senior partner in the law firm of
Adams, Quackenbush, Herring & Stuart.

VICTOR R. GALEF joined SEI Corp. as
senior vice president of marketing. SEI is a $175
million financial services firm in Wayne, Pa.

Galef also gave marketing lectures at several col-
leges in 1991, including W&L.

DR. MARK G. HAEBERLE has a practice in
obstetrics and gynecology at King’s Daughter's
Medical Center in Ashland, Ky. He lives in
Ashland with his wife, Noel, and four children.

STEPHEN T. HIBBARD is an investment
counselor with Scimitar North American. He
lives in Weston, Mass., with his wife, Ginnie,
and sons Charles and Kent.

JOSEPH WOOD RUTTER II is assistant
headmaster for external affairs at Salisbury

School in Salisbury, Conn.
9 6 6 KENNETH O. McGRAW te-
ceived the 1991 Outstanding
‘Teacher Award in the College of Liberal Arts
at the University of Mississippi. McGraw is an
associate professor of psychology, with a special-
ty in developmental psychology, and he was
voted by the students to receive the award and
the $500 prize.

LAW: WILLIAM H. CANDLER (see 63).

6 7 May 7-9

DR. CHRISTOPHER F. (KIP) ARM-
STRONG and his wife, Merry, enjoyed the
Alumni College program on Central Europe that
was held at W&L in July. They make their
home in Danville, Pa.

B. MICHAEL HERMAN was recently named
assistant general counsel of the Health Insurance
Association of America in Washington, D.C.
‘The HIAA is a national trade association that
represents 300 private health insurers before
Congress and the state legislatures. He is
responsible for the Southeastern region.

DR. RICHARD S. KURZ has been named
editor of Hospital and Health Services Administra-
tion, a quarterly journal published by Health Ad-
ministration Press. Kurz, associate professor and
associate dean designate of the school of public

50 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

health at St. Louis University Medical Center,
is the author of several publications dealing with
such diverse topics as utilization of health ser-
vices by the hearing impaired to leadership in
health care organizations.

9 6 SS DR. PAUL C. ATWATER

recently finished his fellowship
exam from the American Academy of
Otolaryngic Allergy. He has been practicing ear,
nose, and throat surgery for the last 10 years

in Atlanta, where he lives with his wife, Ann,
and two sons, Carleton, 7, and Patrick, 5.

WILLIAM S. BLAIR is vice president of
residential construction for Richmarr Con-
struction in Chevy Chase, Md.

JEFFREY T. BRIGGS recently participated on
the business planning committee for the Society
for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecom-
munications (SWIFT) electronic data inter-
change service. The service will enable banks
to exchange financial information electronically
via the SWIFT network on behalf of their cor-
porate clients.

DR. ROBERT B. CARTER is instructional
supervisor for middle school education for
Frederick County (Va.) public schools.

RICHARD T. CLAPP is senior vice president
of the New York branch of the Sumitomo Bank.
He is in charge of the United States Corporate
Department.

DAVID B. LONG is associated with the law
firm of Michael Gross, in the general practice
of law. He lives in Tyler, Texas.

MIKE E. MILES has taken the position of
director of real estate investments for the
Prudential Co. in Newark, N.J. He previously
was a professor at the University of North
Carolina business school.

DR. ANDREW S. (SANDY) RYAN JR.
recently had his book 74e REAL Romantic
Marketplace published by Vantage Press in New
York. He lives in Thousand Oaks, Calif.
DAVID G. MONGAN is a part-

6 U ner in the consulting engineering

firm of Whitney, Bailey, Cox & Magnani. He
lives in Reisterstown, Md., with his wife, Janet,
and children, Alicia, 10, and Matthew, 7.

WILLIAM C. TYLER (see CHARLES R.

YATES JR., °70).

9 7 () STUART C. FAUBER is senior
vice president for Crestar Bank. He

was recently promoted to the rank of captain

in the Naval Reserves. Fauber lives with his

wife, Beth, and daughter, Hilleary, in Lynch-

burg, Va.

KENNETH S. GEORGE was profiled in the
Who's Who in Health Care section of the Dallas
Business Journal. George was featured for his
work in founding Epic Healthcare Group, an
employee-owned company with 13,000
workers.

WILLIAM E. PEARSON is in the doctor of
education program at the University of Virginia.

WILLIAM HARVEY WISE is executive direc-
tor of Joint Action in Community Service. He
lives in Potomac, Md., with his wife, Susana,
and three children, Adam, 17, Andrea, 15, and
Virginia, 13.

CHARLES R. YATES JR. has a real estate
finance partnership with BILL TYLER, ’69, in
Atlanta. He lives there with his wife, Mary, and
children Charlie, 7, and Sarah, 4. Yates reports
that he is playing golf and seeing many
Washington and Lee friends.

LAW: RAY W. DEZERN JR. was recently
apppointed as a substitute judge for the Nor-
folk, Va., General District Court and Norfolk
Juvenile and Domestic Relations District Court.

Dezern is a senior partner in the Norfolk law
firm of Knight, Dudley, Dezern & Clarke.

ea |
partner of Princeton Surgical

Associates, P.A. in Princeton, N.J. He
specializes in general and colo-rectal surgery.
Clay and his wife, Kathy, have two children,
Lukie, 7, and Dina, 3.

DR. LUCIUS D. CLAY III is a

JEFFERY A. DAVIS recently joined the
Houston law firm of McGinnis, Lochridge &
Kilgore as a partner. He lives in Houston with
his wife, Lisa, and daughters, Kate, 6, Allison,
5, and Rebecca, 2.

HENRY A. HARKEY is vice president of Alex-
ander’s Children Center, treasurer of the
Children’s ‘Theatre of Charlotte, elder of Myers
Park Presbyterian Church, and an assistant
scoutmaster with Boy Scouts of America. He
is also managing partner of the law firm of
Harkey, Fletcher, Lambeth and Nystrom in
Charlotte.

JOHN M. McCARDELL JR. was recently
named acting president of Middlebury College.
He had previously been serving as the college's
provost and vice president for academic affairs.

. 7 2 May 7-9

GEORGE C. CHERRY is rejoining the trust
department at Jefferson National Bank. He will
be assistant vice president and business
development officer. He lives in Richmond, Va.

 

 

LEE N. EISEN is a township committeeman
for Springfield, N.J. He is affiliated with the

Democratic Party.

JOHN M. GLACE recently opened a sole prac-
tioner law practice in Hershey, Pa.

MARSHALL T. IRVING III is a hospitality
consultant managing acquisitions and restruc-
turing of motel, hotel, and restaurant facilities.

JOHN TT. McCARTHY
has been promoted to
senior vice president at
> NCNB Corportation in
| Charlotte, N.C. He is
) director of structured
finance/asset securitization.
McCarthy makes his home
with his wife and daughter in Wingate, N.C. He
has been with NCNB since 1983.

  
 

’ 1 3 GEORGE R. JONES JR. is a part-
ner in Industrial Associates Inc., a
Dallas real estate development firm.

Nimrod Long & Associates Inc., a company run
by NIMROD W.E. LONG III, won the Inter-
national Urban Design Competition for the
renovation of 4.5 miles of Peachtree Street in
downtown Atlanta. NLA’s winning design for
the $25 million project was selected from 112
design submittals from 22 countries.

LAW: MICHAEL CAMPILONGO earned a
master of laws degree in environmental law from
the George Washington University’s National
Law Center. His thesis was about Virginia’s par-
ticipation in the reform of federal legislation for
disposal of low-level radioactive waste.

"714 RUSSELL W. CHAMBLISS
recently became president and

chief executive officer of Mason Corp., a com-
pany which manufactures aluminum and steel
building products. Chambliss assumed his new
duties when the company’s founder, Frank
Mason, retired.

DAVID C. LOTTS is associate director for
publications at Virginia Polytechnic and State
University in Blacksburg, Va.

GEOFFREY N. NOLAN (see HARRY E.
HALL, °79).

JOHN M. ZAMOISKI is vice president of Don
Jagoda Associates Inc., a company with offices
is New York and Los Angeles.

LAW: B. MICHAEL HERMAN (see ’67).

 

 

 

Snead says his black lab Hogan helps him relax from rigors of lawyering

Sandy Snead, ’73L,
that make his firm such a big success

When you look at trial lawyer
William O.P. “Sandy” Snead Ill, ’73L,
in court, all that you see are a pen,
a legal pad, and the man himself.

And while that’s just what he
wants you to see, Snead, who has
won more cases for more money than
any other Virginia negligence lawyer,
will be the first to tell you there’s
much more there than meets the eye.

“My staff is like a family, and
everybody gets involved in every
aspect of every case we have,”’ Snead
says. “I take the applause, but | could
do nothing without them. I’m not the
best lawyer around, but | know | have
the best staff around.”

Together, Snead and the staff at his
closely-knit Fairfax, Va., firm have
become very successful. Snead has
helped clients win jury awards of stag-
gering proportions in recent years. A
jury awarded $10.3 million to a
Snead client, who suffered brain
damage in a 1989 traffic accident. In
another case, the award was $3.5
million for the parents of a brain-
damaged child. And he won $4.5
million for a client after he was in-
jured in a motorcycle accident.

Snead’s commanding style and
consuming drive have been at the
root of that success.

Snead seems to thrive in the court-
room. He points proudly to his law

says it’s little things

school education and professors like
Uncas McThenia. “Everything | know
| owe to him,” Snead said, fondly
recalling his law school days and his
famous dog Murphy, who would wait
forr Snead to leave class every day.

Snead showed promise as a trial
lawyer at W&L, and that competitive
fire still burns within him.

‘It’s a good feeling to kick the ant
pile and come out on top,” he says.

But Snead is well aware of the
larger implications of what he does.
His job can take its emotional toll.
Many of his clients have died, and no
amount of money can replace a lost
life. He tries to get away from it all
with his sailboat and his new dog,
Hogan, but the job stays with him.

“There is a great deal of frustra-
tion,”” he says. ‘“There are a lot of
times where you wonder what you’re
accomplishing, what good are you
really doing. And | feel uncomfortable
to have done so well as a result of
someone else’s misery.”

But it is the personal touch of his
firm, the teamwork and the concern,
that give him a positive outlook.

“| can’t tell you how much sup-
port our clients get from our staff,’’ he
says. “It’s very important not to
overlook that mental support.

‘| think we’ve come to realize we
are doing some good.”’

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 51

a a I ee i) 1! 2) ee ria

9 7 5 RICHARD S. CAMPBELL is

director of research and develop-
ment for the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration in Washington, D.C. He and wife,
Allison, and children, Beth, 13, and Scott, 11,
live in Alexandria, Va.

WILSON B. FOLMAR works for BCM Con-
verse Inc. Consulting Engineers in Mobile, Ala.
He recently graduated with a master’s of science
degree from Auburn University.

DAVID A. MYCOFF teaches English and
medical students in the mandatory student work
program at Warren Wilson College in Swanna-
noa, N.C.

CHARLES B. WILSON (see HARRY E.
HALL, °79).

IRVIN E. WOLFSON is a sales engineer for
First ‘Telecommunications Corp. in Grand
Rapids, Mich., working in the implementation

of telephone and voice-data systems.

ie 6 DR. M. BARRY ELLIS served
during Operation Desert Storm at

Fort Bragg Army Hospital. He has a private

practice in head, neck, and ear surgery in
Boone, N.C.

TERRENCE L. McCARTIN is a project
manager for ITT’ Avionics in Clifton, N.J. He
and his wife have a daughter, Bridget, 1.

MICHAEL A. OKIN served with the U.S.
Army Ist Division during Operation Desert
Storm. He was assigned to the 7th Corps, which
went behind Iraqi lines during the ground war.

MAJ. ROBERT D. PROPST lives in Vicen-
za, Italy, with his wife, Angele, and sons,
Spencer, 6, and Parker, 3. He served for seven
months in Saudi Arabia, in connection with
Operation Desert Storm.

DR. JAMES A. (ANDY) SKELTON II is an
associate professor of psychology at Dickinson
College in Carlisle, Pa. He teaches courses in
social psychology and research methods. He
also edited Mental Representation in Health and
I/ness, a collection of articles about people’s con-
ceptions of sickness, which was published in

May.

' / iF May 7-9

JOHN T. BERLEY has joined Bell Atlantic
Systems Integration Corp. as director of finan-
cial institutions consulting. His department pro-

vides a full range of services to the financial in-
dustry. He lives in Bethesda, Md.

52 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

JAMES R. BROOKS was recently named presi-
dent and CEO of Global Specialty Risks Inc.
of Houston. The company is a Lloyds of Lon-
don cover holder primarily for the oil, gas,
energy, and marine business. He lives in
Houston with his wife, Katherine, and three
children, Lanier, 7, James, 4, and Beau, 2.

DR. RICHARD E. CAMPBELL is assistant
professor of public and international affairs at
Osaka International University. He is also assis-
tant editor of the Asian Economic Journal. Camp-
bell has master’s degrees in international studies
and in public administration from the Univer-
sity of Washington in Seattle, and he has a doc-
toral degree in philosophy-economics from
Kobe University of Commerce in Japan.

ROBERT R. CAMPBELL JR. had a set of his
photographs, titled “Figure Study —-1,” includ-
ed in the Maryland Federation of Art show for
emerging artists at the Gallery on the Circle in
Annapolis, Md.

WALTER H. KANSTEINER III has been
named to the National Security Council as
director for African affairs.

BENJAMIN M. LOVE is regional affairs officer
for the Bureau of African Affairs. He served in
the reserves in Washington, D.C., during
Operation Desert Storm.

DAVID R. MESCHUTT is curator of art for
the West Point Museum at the U.S. Military
Academy at West Point, N.Y. In February, he
spoke on “Thomas Sully’s Portraits of Thomas
Jefferson” at the University of Virginia.

DR. JAMES U. SCOTT is doing a fellowship
in behavioral-developmental pediatrics at
Children’s Medical Center, Medical College of
Virginia, for the next three years.

LEWIS R. WINDHAM II runs Magic Gas
Company Inc., the family business, and paints
frequently. He lives in Springville, Ala.

LAW: PAMELA J. WHITE participated in an
American Bar Association Presidential
Showcase Program during the Association’s an-
nual meeting in Atlanta in August. White, a part-
ner in the Baltimore law firm of Ober, Kaler,
Grimes & Shriver, presented a paper titled
“Privacy in the Workplace: Is Big Brother

Watching Us Work?”

9 r | 8 A. MICHAEL AIRHEART. is
senior vice president and corporate

banking manager with North Carolina National

Bank in ‘Tampa, Fla.

FRED L. RUSH JR. is a President's Fellow at
Columbia University. He is in the dissertation
phase of the doctorate program in philosophy.

LT. CMDR. WILLIAM G. WELCH is the
safety officer for Carrier Air Reserve Wing
‘Twenty, based in Jacksonville, Fla.

ROBERTSON H. WENDT JR. is special pro-
secutor of environmental cases with the 9th Cir-
cuit Solicitors Office in Charleston, S.C. He
also has a private law practice with the firm of

Hollings and Nettles.
’ 7 9 CARL K. FOLCIK is district

manager for Thornton Oil Co. His
territory covers the South Chicago suburbs. He
moved to Hinsdale, Ill., from Allentown, Pa.

HARRY E. HALL works for Wilson & Nolan
Southeast Inc., a commercial real estate and
mortgage banking firm owned by CHARLES
B. WILSON, °75, and GEOFFREY N,
NOLAN, ’74. Hall lives with his wife, Allison,
and son, Jordan, in Atlanta.

RICHARD D. HUGHES is the executive vice
president of Rittenhouse Capital Management
Inc., an investment advisory firm in Radnor, Pa.
He is responsible for portfolio management and
marketing. Hughes is also commanding officer
of the First Troop Philadelphia City Cavalry in
the Pennsylvania Army National Guard.

ROBERT K. MEHLER JR. is a database ad-
ministrator for L.L. Bean Inc. in Freeport,
Maine. He lives there with his wife, Catalina,
and three children, Brian, Kelly, and Danny.

ROBERT Y. SMITH JR. is the Peter Burwash

International tennis coach for the Britannia-

Amritraj Tennis Scheme in Madras, India.
ABNEY S. BOXLEY III was

"80
elected president of the Greenvale

Nursery School Inc., a United Way Agency in
Roanoke, Va.

CAPT. CHRISTOPHER B. BURNHAM,
assistant minority leader of the Connecticut
General Assembly, recently announced the for-
mation of an exploratory committee to assess
a possible candidacy for the U.S. Senate in
1992. He would be seeking the Republican
nomination for the seat held by Democratic
Sen. Christopher Dodd. Burnham has been a
member of the general assembly since 1987.

LESTER J. GILLEN is a commercial lending
officer for the Long Island division of The Bank
of New York.

ROBERT E. HUMMEL is vice president of
regional administration for First Midwest Bank.

E. PHILLIP MANGUM JR. is president of J.T.
Parsons Cabinet Co., based in Osceola, Ark.
He lives in Montgomery, Ala., with his wife,
Kathie, and three children, Philip II, William,
and Kathryn.

4

 

 

 

MARC W. OTTINGER is a manager in the
Operational Consulting Group of the Baltimore
Office of Arthur Andersen & Co.

After working as an advanced exploratory
geologist for nine years, WILLIAM E. PRIT-
CHARD III works for the law firm of Lyons,
Pipes & Cook in Mobile, Ala., doing primarily
oil and gas litigation. He lives in Mobile with
his wife Susanne, and three children.

SCOTT V. VAN DYKE is president and chief
executive officer of Anglo-Dutch Petroleum In-
ternational in Houston.

9 & 1 CLAUDE B. COLONNA JR. is

senior product manager for Baker's
Chocolate and Coconut, a division of Kraft Food
Ingredients in Memphis, Tenn. He lives with
his wife, Bonnie, and their three children in Col-
liersville, ‘Tenn.

CAPT. L. HOLMES GINN IV was a
helicopter company commander during Opera-
tion Desert Storm. He has since returned to
Savannah, Ga., where he lives with his wife,
Kimberly, and two children, Virginia and L.H.

LT. CMDR. JOHN K. SCHMIDT is an avia-
tion psychologist assigned to the Naval Air
Development Center. He lives in Newtown,
Pa.

W. CURRIN SNIPES JR. is a news reporter
for KATU-TYV in Portland, Ore. He lives in
Lake Oswego, Ore., with his wife, Frances, and
daughter, Meriwether, 2.

DR. ROBERT O. WALDBAUER JR. is a
research chemist with DuPont-Lycra research
and development department in Waynesboro,
Va.

LAW: DAPHYNE S. THOMAS is a member
of the Commonwealth Transportation Board for
Virginia. She lives in Harrisonburg with her
daughter, Rachel, 2.

®& 2 May 7-9

DR. MICHAEL P. BERNOT is doing a one-
year sports medicine fellowship in Cincinnati.
He recently concluded his residency in or-
thopedics at the University of Pennsylvania.

CAPT. DOUGLAS R. LINTON III worked
with communications satellites during Opera-
tion Desert Storm, including seven weeks spent
in Iraq. He has since returned to Bay Head,
N.J., where he lives with his wife, Debbie, and
daughter, Kimberly.

MICHAEL J. MALESARDI was promoted to
senior manager with Price Waterhouse in
Washington, D.C. He and his wife, Kelly,

 

 

INTER CONTINENTAL

Abitante speaks at press conference prior to NFL preseason game in Berlin

 

Want the inside scoop on the NFL?
Call Pete Abitante, ’78, it’s his job

Like most college juniors, Pete
Abitante, ‘78, had little idea what he
was going to do after graduation.

But after his worries spurred him
to action and he wound up with an
internship with the National Football
League in the summer of '77, Abitante
began an association with America’s
No. 1 spectator sport that makes him
the envy of every armchair quarter-
back in the country.

Abitante, who has been with the
NFL since that internship, recently
was promoted to Director of Informa-
tion for the National Football League
in New York, a job that gives him the
inside scoop on pro football.

“It really is a great job,” says
Abitante, who travels to an NFL game
three out of every four weeks.
‘‘There’s nothing I’d rather be doing,
and with the interest in American
football expanding like it is, this is a
very exciting time to be associated
with the game.”’

Abitante had been director of in-
formation for the American Football
Conference prior to his promotion. In
addition to weekly news releases and
updates, Abitante oversees the writing
of feature stories and the league’s
weekly satellite feed of video
highlights.

During the season, Abitante
spends his Sunday afternoons at
games serving as communicator be-
tween the radio and television broad-
casters and the replay official, who
reviews questionable on-the-field
calls on slow-motion instant replay.

Abitante also is coordinating the
NFL’s publicity efforts overseas,
where the interest in and success of
American football is growing by leaps
and bounds. The NFL has held enor-
mously successful exhibition games
in London, Tokyo, and Berlin, and
even Moscow is under consideration
as a future site.

The international scope of the NFL
is particularly intriguing, says
Abitante. He points to this as one of
the most dynamic areas in the future
of the NFL.

“It’s surprising that it’s come as
fast and as big as it has,’’ Abitante
says, admitting that the sky’s the limit
at this stage. ‘‘But our game is really
treated as a family event over there,
as opposed to the hooliganism that’s
sometimes associated with soccer. |
expect our international games will
continue to expand.”’

All in all, it’s turned out to be quite
a summer internship for Abitante.

Now, about that Super Bowl...

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 53

recently returned from living in Calgary, Alber-
ta, during a two-year exchange program.

RICKIE K. MONROE is in an anesthesiology
residency in Youngstown, Ohio.

DR. ROBERT D. SHAVER is an obstetrics
and gynecology resident at Lankenau Hospital
in Philadelphia. He lives in Ardmore, Pa., with
his wife, Kristen, and children, Davis, 3, and
Cassidy, 1.

ROBERT M. STAUGAITIS is regional opera-
tions coordinator for BTR Realty Inc. in
Baltimore. He is responsible for leasing and
managing a third of the company’s 2.8 million
square feet of commercial real estate
developments.

8 3 WILLIAM M. FRANCE JR. is
vice president and general manager
of WHOK-FM in Columbus, Ohio.

JAMES W. HARTZ is director of research for
Burroughs & Associates, an advertising agen-
cy specializing in automotive accounts. He lives
in Nashville, Tenn.

FRANCIS L. JACKMAN is the financial/inter-
national editor of Aviation Daily. He lives in
Baltimore with his wife, Molly.

W. JAMES JONAS III was
elected vice president of
McCamish, Martin &
Loeffler, P.C. His special-
ty is state and _ federal
government affairs. Jonas’
firm has offices in Washing-
ton, D.C., San Antonio,
and Austin, Texas.

 

After receiving a chemistry degree from Mary
Washington College, B. LEIGH KAPLAN ac-
cepted a managerial position in quality control
from The Coors Brewing Co. in Harrisonburg,
Va. He is continuing his studies in quality con-
trol engineering at James Madison University.

DR. RAYMOND LEE NICHOLS JR. is in his
final year of his orthopedic surgery residency
at the Campbell Clinic in Memphis, Tenn..,
where he lives with his wife, Holly, and son.

DR. RICHARD W. YOUNG lives in Arl-
ington, Va., with his wife, Cheryl, and son,

William, 1.
LAW: JOHN FISHWICK JR. has been named

chairman of a Roanoke, Va., task force on
poverty organized. Fishwick, a member of the
board of directors of the group Total Action
Against Poverty (TAP), will lead the commis-
sion as it conducts meetings in the Roanoke
area, as well as in Allegheny and Rockbridge
counties. Fishwick is a partner in the Roanoke
firm of Fishwick & Young.

54 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

LAW: CAROL L. HOSHALL is an associate
with the Washington, D.C., law firm of David

& Hagner, P.C.

84 DAVID C. ADAMS is an associate
of Cambridge Group, business con-

sultants and brokers in Manchester, Vt. He lives

with his wife, Katie, and son, Austen, 2, in

Dorset, Vt.

JACK R. DENT is a residential initiative coor-
dinator with the Department of Housing and
Urban Development in Atlanta.

HERBERT O. FUNSTEN III is doing a post-
doctoral fellowship at Los Alamos National
Laboratory.

S. FENN LITTLE JR. has opened a full-
service catering business in Atlanta. The cater-
ing business is in addition to his work at
Lansdell Art Galleries.

KIRK R. MANCER’s Over-30 soccer team
won the gold medal in the Alabama Sports
Festival.

CHRISTOPHER M. MURPHY has moved to
San Francisco, where he hopes to own an audio
equipment sales company and to sailboard
under the Golden Gate Bridge.

W.R. RAMPONE JR. received a master’s
degree in English literature from Brown Univer-
sity, with a specialization in the Renaissance.
He is pursuing a doctorate degree in English at
the University of Rhode Island in the same area
of specialization.

DONALD W. RICHARDSON is pursuing a
master’s degree in hydrogeology from the
University of New Hampshire.

CAPT. PARKER B. SCHENECKER is a
counterintelligence instructor for the U.S.
Army. He is stationed at the U.S. Army In-
telligence Center in Fort Huachuca, Ariz.

EK. SLOAN SHOEMAKER climbed to the
summit of Mt. McKinley in Alaska on June 1,
1991. He is co-director and president of the
board of the Environmental Research Group,
a small non-profit environmental organization.

9 S 5 M. ANDREW BERISFORD III is

completing a one-year internship at
the VA Medical Center West Los Angeles. He
is pursuing a doctorate degree in clinical

psychology.
ALEXANDER P. (SANDY) BROWN IV is

head of international televison sales for the Na-
tional Basketball Association. He lives with his
wife, Lindsay, in New York City.

RONALD FENSTERMACHER JR. is an
associate with the Philadelphia law firm of
Strong, Stevens & Hamilton.

JOHN W. HERNDON IIL is in his first year
as assistant basketball and baseball coach at
Washington and Lee.

JEFFREY T. HIRSCH works on the audit staff
for Exxon International in the Caribbean and
Latin America.

DAVID M. HOLLIS has joined the Student
Loan Marketing Assoc., where he will be a
financial systems analyst acting as a liaison
between corporate systems programmers and
end-users. He had spent four years working for
USA Today in Arlington, Va.

JONATHAN C. KNAUS is controller for the
Aeromar Joint Venture, a subsidiary of Caterair
International, located at Sheremetyevo Airport
in Moscow.

CAPT. SCOTT G. NAGLEY recently re-
ceived a master’s degree in chemical engineer-
ing from the University of Virginia. He is cur-
rently assigned by the U.S. Army to the U.S.
Naval Academy as an instructor of chemistry.
He lives in Annapolis, Md., with his wife, Julie.

FRED H. (TAD) RENNER III is a develop-
ment officer at Wheeling Jesuit College in
Wheeling, W.Va. He raises funds from corpora-
tions, alumni, and philanthropic foundations.

ROBERT A. SCHLEGEL is a Navy lieutenant
stationed at Fleet Combat Training Center
Atlantic in Virginia Beach, Va., where he is a
cruise missile instructor. He is also pursuing a
master’s degree in international relations at Old
Dominion University.

JOHN W. ZABRISKIE and PAUL VAIL, ’87,
had a reunion in Bangkok, Thailand. Vail has
a successful business based in Thailand, and
Zabriskie was visiting the Far East on a business
trip.

LAW: JAMES R. ABBEY is in partnership
with his father in the law firm of Abbey & Ab-
bey. He lives with his wife, Lisa, and son,
Nicholas, 2, in Caro, Mich.

LAW: BRUCE M. HATRAK is a deputy at-
torney with the Los Angeles City Attorney's
Office.

9 8 6 LT. H. CHRISTOPHER ALEX-

ANDER IV is assigned to Patrol
Squadron 17 at the Naval Air Station in Barbers
Point, Hawaii.

IST LT. RICHARD A.O. BENNETT is pur-
suing a doctorate in pharmacology at the
Medical College of Virginia. He lives in
Richmond.

DR. JOSEPH C. CAMPBELL JR. is stationed
on the USS E/ Paso as a general medical officer.

JOHN P. CASE III had a summer internship
in Merrill Lynch’s Investment Banking Division
in New York City. He is now in his second year
at The Darden School of Business at the
University of Virginia.

EDWARD W. DAVIS III is a student at The
Amos Tuck School of Business Administration
at Dartmouth College.

ERTHEL E. HILL III was a platoon leader for
his Army Reserve unit during Operation Desert
Storm. He is currently working for Robbins,
Bell & Kuehlem, Architects, and taking
graduate classes in architecture. He lives in
Oldsmar, Fla.

WILLIAM T. HOLMES II is a marketing and
sales associate for the Spectrum in Philadelphia.
He is responsible for leasing corporate luxury
suites in both the Spectrum and a new arena
being built for the Philadelphia Flyers and 76ers.

‘THOMAS P. MAGUIRE teaches European
history and economics at Scarsdale High School
in Scarsdale, N.Y.

MARK J. McDONOUGH has landed a recur-
ring role on the CBS soap opera “The Guiding
Light.” He plays the part of Scott Richardson.

DANIEL J. O'CONNOR III has earned a
master’s degree in government from the Univer-
sity of Virginia. He lives in Atlanta.

R. GRANT RAMPY is a reporter for WKRN-
TV in Nashville, Tenn. He went to Honduras
in October to work for a medical missionary ef-
fort affliated with the Churches of Christ.

LT. J.G. DAVID W. SPRUNT JR. received
a citation for outstanding achievement in aerial
flight while assisting in the search and rescue
of three men whose boat sank off Cape Fear,
N.C. Sprunt piloted a Coast Guard helicopter
during a rainstorm on Dec. 30, 1990, and Jan.
1, 1991, to help co-ordinate search efforts.

TIMOTHY U. STANFORD is a litigation at-
torney with the Dallas firm of Spear, Downs
& Judin, P.C.

LAW: K. DOUGLASS MOYERS has joined
the law department of A.H. Robins Co. He lives
in Richmond, Va.

87 May 79

GEORGE A. BERGER II is pursuing a master
of community planning degree from Auburn
University. He is playing lacrosse for the
Birmingham Lacrosse Club. He was named
Outstanding Player for the 1991 season.

 

 

Scott Shelton, ’78, gives new meaning
to the phrase ‘Go jump off a cliff!’

So, you’re wondering about
bungee jumping, are you? Well, take
a seat and hear what Scott Shelton,
‘78, has to say. He knows the whole
deal from top to bottom, as it were.

For the uninitiated, bungee jump-
ing is the slightly disturbed act of
throwing yourself off a high cliff with
a strong rubber cord attached to your
ankles. The cord snaps the jumper
back just feet above the surface.

But let’s hear the full story from
Shelton, who paid his $80 to make his
first jump earlier this year in
Queenstown, New Zealand.

‘‘...Approaching the bridge at a
place called Skippers’ Canyon, | took
a deep breath on first viewing the
23-story depth from the span to the
bottom of the narrow chasm. | walked
onto the turn-of-the-century wood and
cable structure, trying to ignore
fleeting waves of vertigo, perceiving
a vague uneasiness in the pit of my
stomach, and wishing this whole
thing was over with. | hoped my turn
wouldn’t be too far off. Waiting
around was making me feel worse.

‘‘ Suddenly, the words, ‘You're
up next,’ pierced the air. Other than
being told that a swan dive is the best
way to do it, you don’t get much in
the way of instruction. | suppose that’s
because what you have to do is so
glaringly obvious.

“It’s bewildering the elements
decisions like this are finally made on.
For me, as the countdown began, it
was the 80 bucks on my credit
card. That, and the thought of never
ever living it down if | chickened out.

‘...Hearing the words ‘Two...
One!’ | pushed off the platform and
seemed to be suspended in the air for
a millisecond. Then, as gravity sud-
denly asserted itself, it began: what
can only be described as an absolute
sensory overload. With my arms
spread wide, my back arched,

and what felt like all the blood in my
body racing to my head, the canyon
walls accelerated through my
peripheral vision as the rocks and
rapids below soared up. The over-
whelming perspective of the granite
cliffs zooming by, coupled with my
blurring vision and the wind rushing
in my ears, intensified the perception
of falling. It made for the totally
enveloping fear heretofore experi-
enced only in nightmares that have
you falling in the dark. Only now, in-
stead of waking in the safety of my
bed, the lifeline I’d placed so much
confidence in would save me.

About 40 feet from the bottom, the
expected shock from the bungee cord
had not arrived, and that confidence
began to very seriously erode. | shut
my eyes, thinking for a sickening ins-
tant that something must have gone
terribly wrong. The prospect of
drowning flashed through my con-
sciousness, which was pretty stupid
considering that if the line had
broken, hitting the water would sure-
ly have killed me. As | later found out,
they call this stage ‘‘the panic zone,
the best part of the jump.” The jolt
never came. Instead, the cord gently
stretched downward, carrying me to
within 10 feet of the rapids below.

Because | was, to put it mildly,
possessed by an _ all-consuming,
almost narcotic terror, | did not pick
up on the fact that my hurtling des-
cent had slowed. All | realized was
that the impact | thought to be immi-
nent was late. Opening my eyes, |
now saw the bottom receding as |
bounded upwards with a growing and
extremely sincere feeling of relief.

“After being picked up by the
waiting jet boat, the carabiner was
unhitched from the cord, and | was
left with a memorable and entirely
new appreciation for the term
adrenaline high.”’

 

 

WA&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 55

KEVIN P. COPE works for Salomon Brothers
Inc. in New York City. He is also working for
the re-election campaign of New York Senator
Alfonse D’Amato.

WILLIAM E. ESHAM III was admitted to the
Maryland Bar in June 1991. He works for the
law firm of Ayres, Jenkins, Gordy & Almond
in Ocean City, Md.

H. BALTZER LeJUNE graduated from Loui-
siana State University medical school in May.
He is now in a six-year residency training pro-
gram in otolaryngology at Tulane University.

MARK L. MILLAR recently joined Odyssey
International as a marketing executive. The
company is a global manufacturer of high per-
formance outerwear.

JOHN F. PENSEC has been promoted to
senior account executive at Hill and Knowlton
public relations firm. He works in the Atlanta
office.

JAMES B. SLOAN JR. is an intern with IBM
in Brussels, Belgium. He is enrolled in the
Masters of International Business Studies at the
University of South Carolina.

PAUL J. VAIL (see JOHN W. ZABRISKIE,

85).
CHARLES C. BENEDICT JR. is

"88
attending the Fuqua School of

Business at Duke University.

STEPHEN C. HOLMES works for M-I
Drilling Fluids, a Dresser-Halliburton company,
in Houston.

J. ERIC JOSEPH is a senior consultant with
Andersen Consulting's change management
consulting practice. He lives in Oakton, Va.

CHARLES L. LYLE works in corporate lend-
ing for North Carolina National Bank in
Charlotte.

WILLIAM H. McNAIR JR. is pursuing a
graduate degree in international business and
marketing at the Baden-Wurttembergische
Academie in Germany.

RONN W. MERCER received a master’s
degree in international business from the
University of South Carolina in August. He is
now working for Microsoft Corp. in Charlotte.

JAMES H. MORGAN III is attending the
University of Chicago business school.

DONALD P. NIMEY II received a master’s
degree in business from Tulane in May 1991.

BRADLEY B. ROOT recently moved from
Chicago to Boston, where he continues to work
as a travel consultant for corporations.

56 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ERIC L. SULLIVAN is an analyst in the in-
vestments and cash management division of
American Bankers Insurance Group. He lives
in Miami.

MATTHEW B. UPTON is a fourth-year
medical student at the West Virginia Universi-
ty School of Medicine in Charleston, W.Va.

LAW: ROSS S. HAINE and ELIZABETH P.
MURTAGH, ’89L, have opened a law office
in Lexington, Va. Their firm is called Haine &
Murtagh. Haine and Murtagh were married in
September 1990.

LAW: CAPT. JOHN D. KRAL serves as
assistant staff judge advocate at the U.S. Air

Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo.
9 8 Q KRISTA K. BAGGETT recently

received her master’s degree in
school psychology from James Madison Univer-
sity. She is pursuing an educational specialist

degree, and is an assistant with the Office of
‘Teacher Certification at JMU.

DOUGLAS C. BRACKEN is in his final year
of law school at Texas Tech.

COURTNEY A. COYLE is a first-year law stu-
dent at the University of San Diego. She lives
in La Jolla, Calif., and is preparing to run her
second marathon.

ANNA M. HAMPTON is teaching English for
a year in Madrid.

MICHAEL C. HOLIFIELD is a third-year law
student at Indiana University in Indianapolis.
He has been selected for the Navy Judge Ad-
vocate Program.

W. FRAY McCORMICK is BankCard
marketing representative for First Union Na-
tional Bank in Charleston, S.C.

THOMAS R. MOORE recently returned to
Maryland after spending a year in Maui, Hawaii.
He works for Brightwater Environmental Con-
sultant Services, a company specializing in
stream restoration.

MARGARET PIMBLETT is development
associate at the Robert W. Woodruff Arts
Center in Atlanta.

JOHN G. PIPKIN recently received a master’s
degree in English from the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. He is currently pursu-
ing a doctorate in English at Rice University,
where he is on a full scholarship.

MARK A. ROBERTSON is a commercial ac-
count executive for Hanks, Bush Inc., an in-
dependent insurance agency in Madison, Wis.

E. LUCKETT ROBINSON IL is a first-year law
student at the University of Alabama law school.

W. ROSS SINGLETARY has been promoted
to an officer in the Corporate Banking Group
of First Union National Bank in Charlotte, N.C.
He recently returned from a trip to France, Ger-
many, Switzerland, Italy, and Monaco.

IAN P. THOMPSON is a stockbroker for
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in Chevy Chase,
Md. He lives in Old Town Alexandria, Va.

2ND LT. MICHAEL R. ‘TUCCI recently
graduated from the Marine Corps Basic School.
The course prepares newly-commissioned of-
ficers for assignment to the Fleet Marine Forces.

JOHN W. WEBB is a geologist for URS Con-
sultants in Seattle.

THOMAS W. WINGFIELD is a pharma-
ceutical sales representative for Abbott
Laboratories. Once he finishes his training, he
will live in Johnson City, Tenn.

LAW: ELIZABETH P. MURTAGH (see
ROSS S. HAINE, ’88L).

’O() RUSSELL B. CROSBY. is
student-teaching and coaching foot-
ball at Allen D. Nease High School in St.
Augustine, Fla.

FRANK J. DeMENTO is a first-year law stu-
dent at St. John’s University.

2ND LT. GARY O. GILES is platoon com-
mander of a stinger missile battalion in Okinawa.
It is the first low-altitude air defense battalion
in Okinawa.

MARJORIE E. (MEG) GILKESON is a junior
account executive at Creative Response Con-
cepts, a public relations firm in Alexandria, Va.

KATHERINE A. GRACI is moving to Seattle.
She previously was working part time for
Coopers & Lybrand in Memphis, Tenn., and
for Al Graci Educational Service.

WOODARD S. HEATH teaches history at the
Darlington School in Rome, Ga.

SUSAN L. IMESON teaches sixth grade
science at Highland Belle School. She lives in
Lexington, Va.

ADAM A. MORGAN works for Georgetown
University, doing molecular genetics research
for the National Bone Marrow Registry. He

looks for transplants for leukemics. He works
with CAROLINE CARTER, °90.

JUDSON B. PARKER is a first-year law stu-
dent at Louisiana State University. Last year,
he traveled to India, Nepal, Southeast Asia,
Australia, and Europe.

DAVID E. PITZEL is a purchasing agent for
Dittler Brothers, a printing firm in Atlanta.

 

LORI RICHARDSON is a writer and assistant
editor for The Blood-Horse magazine. The
magazine covers international thoroughbred

racing.

SCOTT T. SANDERS enjoyed his first year
as a teacher, coach, counselor, and dorm
monitor at The Hyde School in Bath, Maine.

JOHN B. SCHNEIDER worked for a federal
district judge during the summer. He attends
the University of Houston law school.

SUSAN S. SWAYZE has earned a master’s
degree in higher education from the University
of California at Los Angeles. She is now pursu-
ing a doctorate degree.

D. WOODFORD WEBB JR. is pursuing a
masters degree in business with a finance em-
phasis from the University of Kentucky.

LAW: STEPHEN A.
MAYO has joined the law
firm of Adams, Kleemeier,
Hagan, Hannah & Fouts,
a 36-year-old firm in
. Greensboro, N.C. Mayo
» had served one year as a

law clerk to Justice Burley
B. Mitchell Jr. of the Supreme Court of North
Carolina.

 

LAW: EDWARD P. TIFFEY is in the second
year of a two-year clerkship with The Hon.
Elizabeth V. Hallanan, U.S. District Judge for
the Southern District of West Virginia.

LAW: GLADYS L. YATES works with the
law firm of Hunton & Williams in their
Washington, D.C., office. She works in the

litigation department.
9 1 AMY E. AUSSIKER is attending
Bowman-Gray School of Medicine

in Winston-Salem, N.C.

SARAH C. BOLTE is an analyst in the project
finance department at Martin Marietta-Air Traf-
fic Systems in Washington, D.C.

MELINDA M. CONKLING is working for
John Adams Associates, a public relations firm
in Washington, D.C. She lives in Arlington, Va.

LINDSAY B. de HAVEN is finishing her
teaching certification at Mary Baldwin College.
She is being certified for elementary education.

DUKE A. DILLARD is a public school teacher

in the Long Beach (Calif.) Unified School
District.

THOMAS G. DOUGLASS JR. is a staff ac-

fountant with Ernst & Young. He lives in
Atlanta.

WILLARD L. DUMAS III is a first-year law
student at Boston College.

‘TERANCE F. FOWLER is working for the in-
dustrial wood products division of Georgia-
Pacific Corp. He lives in Atlanta.

PAULA M. GREGG is a first-year medical stu-
dent at Uniformed Services University of the
Health Sciences.

ANN M. GREGORY is in the management
training program at Nations Bank in Atlanta.

KEIKO HARADA is in the training program
at North Carolina National Bank in Tampa, Fla.

MICHAEL W. HOLTON is an analyst at
Bowles, Hollowell, Conner & Co., in Charlotte.

BERNADETTE M. KEMPTON is a first-year
student at the Baylor College of Medicine. She
lives in Houston.

JOHN M. LANEY is pursuing a master’s degree
in history from the University College in Lon-
don, England.

‘THOMPSON LYKES served in the U.S. Mer-
chant Marine during the Gulf War. He held the
rank of Ordinary Seaman on a vessel chartered
to the Military Sealift Command, U.S. Navy.
The ship was responsible for transporting sup-
plies between U.S. military installations and
Saudi Arabian ports.

GEORGE C. NOMIKOS is a first-year medical
student at the Medical College of Virginia. He
lives in Richmond.

STACEY N. PATMORE is pursuing a master’s
degree in accounting at Virginia Tech. She is
also working as a graduate research assistant.

ROBERT A. SHELTON is an analyst at First
Boston Corp. in New York City.

MICHAEL W. SKARDA is enrolled in the
JD/MBA program at Texas Tech University.

J.R. SMITH JR. is a participant in the Japanese
Exchange & Teaching program. He lives in
Hyogo-ken, Japan.

JEAN J. STROMAN is an au pair for
PHILIPPE LABRO, ’58, the noted French
writer. She is living in Paris.

JOHN C. THORSEN is assistant director of
admissions at Darlington School in Rome, Ga.

LORETTA L. VANDENBERG is an officer
in the Marine Corps and is stationed in Hawaii.

SUSAN H. WATSON is teaching Spanish at
Pace Academy in Atlanta.

MELLISSA L. WELLER is an audit accoun-
tant for Price Waterhouse in Washington, D.C.

LOVELL M. WEST is pursuing a master’s
degree in arts and teaching at the University of
South Carolina in Columbia.

LAW: JOHN G. BYRD works for Wallace,
Ross & Harris, a law firm in Elkins, W.Va.

LAW: JAMES O. WATTS IV is working for
Edmunds & Williams, a firm in Lynchburg, Va.

 

 

Marriages

 

 

PHILIP C. MANOR, ’66, and Nancy P. Barry
on Aug. 31, 1991, in Chester, N.J. The cou-
ple lives in New York City, where Manor is a
senior editor at John Wiley & Sons.

DANIEL J. SAUL, ’76L, and Pamela Jean
Saunders on May 5, 1991, in Ocean City, N.J.
The couple lives in Absecon, N.].

RICHARD W. STEWART, '78, and Kelly
Ann Barnes, on Aug. 31, 1991, in Metuchen,
N.J. The couple lives in New York City, where
Stewart is a vice president of the Manufacturers
Hanover Trust Co.

WILLIAM L. GARRETT, ’80L, and Mary
Elizabeth Fife on July 27, 1991, in Wilmington,
Del. The couple lives in Wilmington.

DAVID A. LEWIS, ’81, and Susan Johanna
Jacobson, on June 1, 1991, in Boston. The wed-
ding party included his classmates Jeff Reiter,
Ray Price, and Mike Perry. The couple lives
in New York City, where Lewis is a vice presi-
dent and an assistant resident counsel at Morgan
Guaranty Trust in New York.

JOHN R. SULT, ’81, and M. Susan Neuhouser
on June 22, 1991. The wedding party included
Robert L. Sult, °78. The couple lives in
Houston, where Sult is a senior manager with
Arthur Anderson & Co.

ANDREW F. TROTTER, ’82, and Daphne
Willard Gardiner, on Aug. 17, 1991, in Bar Har-
bor, Maine. The couple lives in Washington,
D.C., where Trotter is an assistant editor of the
American School Board Journal.

GLENN A. DRAKE, ’83, and Denise Burdett
on August 24, 1991, in Hamilton, Bermuda.
The couple lives in Stamford, Conn., where
Drake is a financial consultant for A.G.
Edwards.

THE HON. MARYLOUISE LUCCHI, ’83L,
and Edward J. McCloud on May 18, 1991. The

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 57

couple lives in Hackensack, N.J., where the
bride is an administrative law judge.

GEOFFREY C. WOOD,’83, and Brenda Sue
Wilson on July 27, 1991, in Severna Park, Md.
The couple lives in Washington, D.C.

‘THOMAS M.T. TURK, ’84, and Rebecca M.
Wynne on July 27, 1991, in Richmond, Va.
Members of the wedding party included
classmates Melville P. Cote Jr. and Edwin D.
Vaughan Jr. The couple lives in Richmond.

DR. DAVID D. LEWIS, ’86, and Julia Ann
Bliley on April 27, 1991, in Richmond, Va. The
wedding party included his classmates Jonathon
L. Elder and Christopher R. Hope. The cou-
ple lives in Durham, N.C., where Lewis is a
first-year resident in family practice at Duke
University. He graduated from the University
of Virginia medical school in May 1991.

DOUGLAS F. ELLIOTT II, ’88, and Susan
M. Sipple on August 3, 1991. W&L alumni in
the wedding were classmates John McKay,
Buck Wiley and Barney Robinson, and Fred
Elliot, "92. The couple lives in Birmingham, Ala.

KATHLEEN B. HOGAN, ’88L, and Kevin
Patrick Bruen, on Sept. 7, 1991, in Hudson
Falls, N.Y. The couple lives in Brooklyn, N.Y.,
and work as assistants in the Brooklyn District
Attorney's office.

ANDREW T. McMAINS, °88, and Gayle
Bourque, on June 15, 1991, in Beaumont, ‘Tex.
‘The wedding party included his classmates Leif
Ueland and Rob Ryan, and John Falk, °86. The
couple lives in Baton Rouge, La., where
McMains was a field director for Gov. Buddy
Roemer’s re-election campaign.

KENNETH G. STALLARD, ’88L, and Ed-
wina Leigh Burden, on Aug. 17, 1991, in Lee
Chapel. ‘The wedding party included John Vita,
"84, ’88L, Steve Broeckaert, *88L, Dory
Brodkin Broeckaert, “88L, and Pamela Fox,
*88L. Stallard is an attorney with Thompson,
McGrail, O'Donnell, and Harding, in
Washington, D.C. He practices insurance
defense. The couple lives in Fairfax, Va.

LEE D. BRADING, °89, and TRACY A.
WILLIAMS, ’89, on Aug. 24, 1991, in Lee
Chapel. The wedding party included Bryan
Brading, 93, Tara Perkinson, 91, and David
Symonds, ’89. The groom is an accountant with
the firm BDO Seidman in Atlanta. The bride
is completing her master’s degree in speech-
language pathology at the University of Georgia.
The couple lives in Stone Mountain, Ga.

JOHN W. DEIGHAN, ’89, and JANE BOL-
ING, 91, on Aug.’3, 1991, in Winston-Salem,
N.C. The wedding party included Daniel Bet-
tendorf, 91, and Lovell West, 91. The couple
lives in Royersford, Pa.

S58 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

JOHN M. HARVEY, ’89, and Jill Faglier, on
March 16, 1991, in Dunwoody, Ga. The cou-
ple lives in Alpharetta, Ga. Harvey is in the
management associates program at Bank South
in Atlanta.

JULIE SALERNO, °89, and ROWAN G.P.
‘TAYLOR, ’89, on July 13, 1991, in Lexington,
Va. The wedding party included classmates
Michael Forrester, Eric Skinner, Brian Turnau,
Amy Smith, and Mary Anne White, and Melin-
da Conkling, 91. The couple lives in Green-
wich, Conn.

JEFFREY P. SCHULTZ, ’89, and Amelia Ad-
dison on July 6, 1991, in Racine, Wis. ‘The wed-
ding party included his classmates Chris Callas,
John Pipken, and Kevin Struthers. ‘The couple
lives in Peekskill, N.Y., where Schultz is the
product manager for the Reader's Digest Video
Catalog.

S. HUNTER WOLTZ, ’89L, and Nelson H.C.
Fisher on July 20, 1991. Patricia Ann Malesar-
di, °89L, was a bridesmaid. The couple lives
in Richmond, Va.

KRISTA A. GOODMAN, ’90, and Sean J.
Dooley on Sept. 7, 1991, in Roanoke, Va. The
wedding party included Paula Owsley, 90. ‘The
couple lives in Orange Park, Fla. The bride
received a master’s degree in public administra-
tion from the University of Virginia in August.

STEWART G. FLIPPEN, ’90, and Kathleen
S. Sams on June 22, 1991, in Richmond, Va.
The couple lives in Richmond, where Flippen

works as a benefit analyst at Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of Virginia.

KATHERYN E. FOSTER, ’90L, and Alan
Drew Kolondy, on May 25, 1991. The couple
lives in Jackson, Miss.

‘THOMAS WARNER SMITH III, ’90L, and
Marcia Mayo, on May 11, 1991. The couple
lives in Falls Church, Va., where Smith is an
attorney with Hazel and Thomas, P.C.

JANE BOLING, ‘91,
DEIGHAN, °89).

(see JOHN W.

LARKIN M. FOWLER III, 91, and COURT-
NEY PAYNE, ’91, on July 13, 1991 in Atlan-
ta. The wedding party included Larkin Fowler,
Jr. °65, “68L, and 1991 graduates Terrence
Fowler, Allen Crawford, Tim Halloran, Tyler
Suiters, Brad Miller, Bill Gottwald, John Ebner,
Krista Vollack, Susan Watson, Helen O'Shea,
Liz Baker, and Amy Coates. The couple lives
in Atlanta, where the groom works for the
‘Taylor Consulting Group.

ROSCHELLE L. MACK, ’91, and Richard
Mears III on June 5, 1991. The couple lives
in Mechanicsville, Md., where the bride works
with Cuban Broadcasting “Voice of America.”

 

Births

 

 

 

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT C. DEVANEY,
65, a daughter, Katrina Caldwell, on March 19,
1991, in Bombay, India. She joins sisters Kavita,
4, and Gita, 2. Devaney is employed with
Zapata Offshore Co. in Bombay.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN H. WARD IV, ’68,
a daughter, Elizabeth Speed, on June 30, 1991.
She joins brothers Peter, 15, and Andrew, 13.
The family lives in Anchorage, Ky.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT M. BUXTON,
69, their second son, Henry Malcom, on July
30, 1991. He joins a brother, Nicholas, 1. The
family lives in New York City.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN B. WOODLIEF, ’72,
a son, Joseph Michael, on Aug. 28, 1991. The
family lives in Charlotte, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. MILLARD S. YOUNTS,
72, ason, Carter Spurgeon, on June 11, 1991.
The family lives in Arlington, Va.

MR. AND MRS. STEPHEN M. APGAR, ’73,
a daughter, Cristina Virginia, on Aug. 28, 1991.
The family lives in Westport, Conn., where
Apgar publishes 7he Mortgage Journal.

MR. AND MRS. B. TROY FERGUSON III,
74, a son, David Lane, on July 12, 1991. He
joins a brother, John, 3. The family lives in
Durham, N.C., where Ferguson is a vice presi-
dent with North Carolina National Bank.

MR. AND MRS. W. PERRIN NICOLSON
IV, °74, their fourth son, Wesley Armour, on
Aug. 15, 1991. He joins brothers Sanford, Per-
rin, and Ross. The family lives in Columbus,
Ga.

MR. AND MRS. S. LAWRENCE DUM-
VILLE, ’75, a son, Thomas Edward, on Nov.
3, 1990. He joins a brother, Rob, 4. The family
lives in Norfolk, Va., where Dumville works
with the law firm of Breeden, MacMillan, and
Green.

DR. AND MRS. PAUL G. FIRTH, °75, their
fourth child, Stuart Paul, on June 6, 1991. The
family lives in Macon, Ga., where Firth has a
private practice in obstetrics and gynecology.

MR. AND MRS. GUY H. KERR, ‘75, a
daughter, Audrey Anne, on April 24, 1991. She
joins a brother, Lee, 4. The family lives in
Dallas, where Kerr is a director and shareholder
of the Dallas-based law firm of Locke, Purnell,
Rain, and Harrell. He practices in the corporate
and securities area.

MR. AND MRS. OLIVER H. TIMMINS III,
‘75, a daughter, Caroline Amanda, on May 11,

 

1991. The family lives in San Antonio, Texas,
where Timmins practices law with Russell &
Hoffman.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES F. McMENAMIN,
‘76, a daughter, Sheila Maureen, on July 19,
1991. She joins brothers, Daniel, 7, and Tom,
4, and sister, Mary Kate, 3. The family live in
Towson, Md., where McMenamin is president
of McMenamin Communications.

MR. AND MRS. MICHAEL D. ARM-
STRONG, ’77, a daughter, Katharine Anne, on
Aug. 9, 1991. She joins a brother, David Cole-
man. The family lives in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM J. KERR, °77,
their third child, Kathryn Grace, on June 7,
1991. The family lives in Wheaton, III.

DR. AND MRS. ROBERT H. JACKSON,
‘78, a son, Robert Hutchinson Jr., on July 26,
1991. He joins a sister, Elizabeth Holladay, 2.
The family lives in Shreveport, La., where
Jackson is assistant professor of medicine at
Louisiana State University Medical Center.

MR. AND MRS. STEVEN C. YEAKEL, ’79,
a daughter, Sarah Martin, on July 3, 1991. She
joins a sister, Katherine, 5, and a brother, Joe,
3. The family lives in Helena, Mont.

MR. AND MRS. ‘THOMAS B. RENTSCH-
LER JR.,’79, a daughter, Abigail Elizabeth, on
May 8, 1991. She joins a brother, Thomas III.
The family lives in Hamilton, Ohio.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT B. WOMBLE,
‘79L, a daughter, Margaret Brady, on April 26,
1991. She joins a brother, Robert, 3. The family
lives in Raleigh, N.C., where Womble is a part-
ner in the law firm of Poyner & Spruill.

MR. AND MRS. GREGORY B. DYER, ’80,
a daughter, Colleen Marie on June 14, 1991.
She joins a sister, Katie, 4, and a brother, Kevin,
3. The family lives in Kensington, Md., and
Dyer has opened a new office, Dyer and
Associates, P.C., C.P.A, located in Bethesda,
Md.

MR. AND MRS. STEVEN L. HIGGS, ’80,
a son, Matthew Robert, on May 22, 1991. He
joins a sister, Lydia, 3. The family lives in
Roanoke, Va., where Higgs is a partner in the
law firm of King & Higgs.

MR. AND MRS. PHILIP J. WISSEL, ’80L,
4 son, Richard Corbin, on May 14, 1991. The
family lives in Hartsdale, N.Y. Wissel is a part-
ner in the law firm of Plunkett & Jaffe in White
Plains, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. PHILIP D. MARELLA JR.,
81, a daughter, Julia Grace, on July 21, 1991.
The family lives in New York City.

MR. AND MRS. JOEL E. SEGALL, ’81, a
son, Harrison Eric, on Aug. 18, 1991. He joins
a brother, Zachary, 3. The family lives in
Baltimore, where Segall is an attorney with the
law firm of Sapero and Sapero.

MR. AND MRS. GEOFFREY H. SHER-
RILL, ’81, a son, Christian Hines, on July 8,
1991. The family lives in Lime Rock, Conn.

MR. AND MRS. DOUGLAS T. WEBB, ’81,
a daughter, Hilary, on Aug. 17, 1991. She joins
a sister, Olivia, 2. The family lives in Dallas,
where Webb is executive vice president of
Webb & Sons, Inc.

MR. AND MRS. EDWARD J. BEDFORD,
’82L, a son, Kevin Michael, on May 23, 1991.
He joins a brother, Jim, and a sister, Shannon.
The family lives in Baltimore, where Bedford
is an attorney with Cable, McDaniel, Bowie &
Bond.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM G. BENSON,
‘82, a daughter, Morgan Kay, on Sept. 12,
1991. She joins a sister, Elizabeth, 2. The
family lives in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where Ben-
son is a partner in the accounting firm of Keefe,

McCullough & Co.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES E. DUNN JR.,’82,
a daughter, Catherine Helt, on Sept. 12, 1991.
She joins three brothers. The family lives in
Greensboro, N.C., where Dunn is chairman of
Coleman Envelope Printing.

MR. AND MRS. J. THAD ELLIS II, ’82, a
daughter, Laura Beth, on Sept. 1, 1991. She
joins a brother, James Thad III, 2. The family
lives in Atlanta, where Ellis is marketing direc-
tor of Peterson Properties.

LINDA DAVIS FRITH, °82L, and T.
DANIEL FRITH III, ’82L, a son, Hugh Davis
Frith, on Jan. 6, 1991. He joins a brother
Thomas Daniel IV. The family lives in
Roanoke, Va.

LIZANNE THOMAS, ’82L, and DAVID
BLACK, ’82L, a son, Riley Charles Black, on
Aug. 9, 1991. He joins a brother, Roger, 3. The
family lives in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID T. HAYSLETTE,
'83, a son, Peyton, on Aug. 9, 1991. He joins
a brother, Jarrod, 2. The family lives in
Charlotte, where Hayslette is human resources
manager for the Hoechst Celanese Corp.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN W. PERKINSON
JR., °83, a daughter, Margaret Benton, on Sept.
18, 1991. The family lives in Leesburg, Va.

MR. AND MRS. FRED H. RINDGE V,’83,
a daughter, Brianna Taylor, on Aug. 11, 1991.
The family lives in Charleston, S.C., where
Rindge is a copy editor with the Charleston Post
and Courter.

MR. AND MRS. C. JAY ROBBINS IV, ’83L,
a daughter, Emma Elizabeth, on Oct. 8, 1991.
The family lives in Chesapeake, Va.

DR. AND MRS. WARREN L. SNEAD JR.,
83, a son, Warren Leslie III, on Aug. 10, 1991.
The family lives in Richmond, Va., where
Snead has joined the Pediatric Association of
Richmond.

MR. AND MRS. MARK C. MITSCHOW,
84, their first child, Charles Elie, on Aug. 10,
1991. Mitschow, his wife, Gabrielle, and their
son live in Rockville, Md., where he is work-
ing on his doctorate dissertation in accounting
at the University of Maryland. He is also
teaching at Howard University in Washington,
D.C.

MR. AND MRS. ALBERT B. JAY) BOGGS
JR., °85, a son, Albert Brown III, on June 21,
1991. The family lives in Baltimore, where
Boggs is the vice president of finance for McCall
Handling.

MR. AND MRS. BRUCE E. DOUB, ’85, a
son, Bruce Eliot, on June 27, 1991. The family
lives in Baltimore, where Doub is with Carey
Winston Co. in commercial leasing.

MR. AND MRS. RICHARD S. GATTI III,
’85, a daughter, Erin Elizabeth, on May 23,
1991. She joins a sister, Meagan, 2. The fami-
ly lives in Kensington, Md. Gatti works with
the Hecht Co., a division of May Co. Depart-
ment Stores.

MR. AND MRS. W. MARSH ROBERTSON,
’85, a daughter, Ashley Elizabeth, on April 25,
1991.

ROBERTA ANN BONDURANT, ’86L, and
Thomas J. Bondurant, Jr., a daughter, Kathryn
Douai, on Jan. 26, 1991. The family lives in
Roanoke, Va.

MR. AND MRS. THOMAS A. OSELLA, ’86,
a daughter, Sunshine April, on April 3, 1991.
She joins a sister, Virginia Rose, 2. The family
lives in Lexington, Va.

WILLIAM A. GARRETT III, °87, and PA-
TIENCE JONES GARRETT, ’89, a son,
William Alexander IV, on May 20, 1991. The
family lives in Greensboro, N.C., where Bill was
transferred to a new Coopers and Lybrand
office.

IST LT. AND MRS. CHRISTOPHER H.
BECKERT, ’88, a daughter, Katharine Tracy,
on July 19, 1991. The family lives in Schofield
Barracks, Hawaii.

PATIENCE JONES GARRETT, ’89 (see
WILLIAM A. GARRETT, ’87).

WA&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 59

 

In Memoriam

 

 

 

LESLIE S. ANDERSON, ’15, tobacco broker,
on Aug. 23, 1991, in Lakeland, Fla. He was
a member of Phi Kappa Psi while at W&L,
before serving in the U.S. Army from 1917 to
1918. He obtained a law degree from the
University of Florida. Anderson was a past presi-
dent of Legion Theater Inc., and Anderson
Motor Co. He was a former director of Liberty
Savings Bank, and Mayfield Broadcasting Co.
He was an elder and trustee of the Ist
Presbyterian Church in Mayfield, Ky., and a
member of the Rotary Club and the American
Legion.

WILLIAM P. PARSONS, °20L, former
Virginia commonwealth’s attorney, on October
20, 1990. He graduated from Virginia Military
Institute in 1915, and served as a first lieutenant
in the U.S. Army from 1918-19 before obtain-
ing his law degree from W&L. He began prac-
ticing law in Wytheville, Va., in 1924, and
served as the town attorney for 45 years. Par-
sons served as commonwealth’s attorney for 26
years. He also served in many leadership posi-
tions for St. Paul’s Methodist Church, where
he was a member from 1924.

AINSLEY J. LESTER JR., °23, retired
salesman, on Aug. 14, 1991, at his home in
Martinsville, Va. While at W&L, he was a
member of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and
Omicron Delta Kappa. After graduating, he was
a manufacturer's representative for Bassett In-
dustries. Lester was also a Mason, a member
of the Kiwanis Club, and a deacon in First Bap-
tist Church.

D. RAYMOND SNIVELY, ’23, former realtor,
on July 2, 1991, in Hagerstown, Md. While at
W&L, he was a member of the Phi Kappa
Sigma fraternity, and although he was a member
of the class of 1923, a failing grade in geology
his senior year prevented him from obtaining
his degree that year. Exactly fifty years later,
he passed the geology exam, and received his
degree in 1973. In the interim, he was a sales
manager and vice president of the Hagerstown
Leather Co., and he worked for Long and
Foster and Bowman and Lindsey. Snively was
a member of the St. John’s Episcopal Church,
a member of the Maryland Board of Natural
Resources, and a member of the board of the
Washington County Welfare Department. He
was also captain of the Minutemen under
Maryland Gov. Lane during World War II.

60 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

JAMES R. HENDRIX, °26, a Birmingham,
Ala., investment banker and founder of the
Mountain Brook school system, on Oct. 6,
1991. While at W&L, he was a member of the
Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. During World War
II, he served as a lieutenant commander of a
U.S. Navy fighter squadron. He was active in
the securities industry in Alabama since 1930,
the year he helped found the investment firm
Hendrix, Mohr & Yardley. He was appointed
to the Alabama Industrial Development
Securities Commission and the advisory com-
mission for the investment of the state’s retire-
ment systems. Hendrix organized the Moun-
tain Brook school system in 1959, and served
as chairman of its Board of Education from its
founding until 1972. He remained on the board
until 1983, and the school system’s administra-
tion building was named in his honor after his
retirement. In 1986, he was named Citizen of
the Year by the Mountain Brook Exchange
Club, and in 1991 received the James L. Per-
mutt Humanitarian Award in recognition of his
longstanding devotion and committment to his
community. Hendrix endowed a scholarship
fund to provide financial assistance to Moun-
tain Brook teachers. He was a member of the
Investment Bankers Association, the National
Association of Securities Dealers Inc., and the
Security Investors Protective Corp. He was also
a member of St. Mary’s Episcopal Church in
Birmingham.

CLAY B. CARR, °27, founder of Carr
Publishing Co., on June 26, 1991, in Win-
chester, Va. Carr was Phi Beta Kappa at W&L,
and did graduate work at Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity and the College of William and Mary. He
taught at Boyce Agricultural High School, where
he had gone to high school, for two years, and
then joined the staff at 7he Winchester Evening
Svar in 1929. Four years later, he moved to The
Washington Post. He became general manager
of Jefferson Publishing Co. in Charles ‘Town,
W.Va. in 1935. He left Jefferson in 1946 to
establish Carr Publishing Co., which he
operated until 1981. Carr Publishing printed 7he
Eastern Fruit Grower and Farm and Livestock.
Carr also wrote nine books. He was deacon and
Sunday school teacher of the men’s Bible class
of First Baptist Church, was a founder and presi-
dent of the Clarke County Lions Club, and
served on the Clarke County School Board. He
was involved in many other Civic activities in
Winchester, as well.

S. FRANK JONES JR., °28, former textile
broker, on Aug. 21, 1991, in Charlotte, N.C.
While at W&L, he was a member of the Beta
Theta Pi fraternity. After graduating from
W&L, Jones became associated with the bank-
ing and textile industries. He was a member of
Myers Park United Methodist Church and the
Luther Snyder Bible class. He was a past presi-

dent of the Rotary Club of Charlotte, and a past
exalted ruler of the Elks Lodge in Anderson,
S.C., where he lived from 1941-46.

HERBERT A. LEWIS, °28, former chairman
of the board of First National Bank of Fayette-
ville, Ark., on May 8, 1990. He was a Sigma
Chi while at W&L. After graduation, he worked
in a Ford agency, for a lumber company, and
for the First National Bank of Fayetteville.

PHARES D. BEVILLE, °29, former national
advertising manager for 74e Mobile (Ala.) Press-
Register, on March 14, 1991, at his home in
Mobile. While at W&L, Beville was a member
of the Kappa Alpha Order. He joined his father
in the automobile business in Mobile in 1929,
before moving to the circulation department of
the paper in 1934. He retired from the paper's
advertising department in 1974. Beville was a
longtime secretary of the Kiwanis Club of
Mobile, and was an elder in his Presbyterian
church for more than 40 years.

CHARLES M. SMITH, °30, retired federal
government official, on Jan. 1, 1991, in Annan-
dale, Va. After attending W&L for two-and-a-
half years, he graduated from Tulane Universi-
ty, and did graduate work at the University of
North Carolina. In the 1930s, he was a
newspaperman in New Orleans and
Philadelphia and did public relations work in
New York. From 1941 to 1942, Smith was ex-
ecutive secretary of the Southeastern
Cooperative League, an economic development
organization. He then came to Washington,
1).C., as assistant information director of the
Farm Security Administration. He served in the
U.S. Army as a battalion clerk during World
War II, and after the war became information
director of the Housing and Home Finance
Agency. For most of the 1950s, he was acting
head of the Washington office of the National
Council of Churches. He worked for the Ken-
nedy presidential campaign in 1960, and then
was a congressional liaison for federal housing
programs including the 1965 act that established
the Department of Housing and Urban
Development. He worked for the White House
for two years, and then from 1966 to 1968, he
was staff director of the Senate subcommittee
on intergovernmental relations. He was program
planning director of the Coastal Plains Regional
Commission from 1969 until his retirement in
1973. He was a member of the National Press
Club and served on the Virginia Council on
Human Relations.

BEVERLEY H. SMITH, °32, automobile
dealer, on Aug. 17, 1991, in Palm Beach, Fla.
While at W&L, Smith was a member of the
Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. He first became
interested in the automobile business during
World War II, when he was working in a Ford
automobile factory that had been converted to
make bombers. He met Henry Ford at the

 

 

 

 

plant, and after the war Ford convinced him to
invest in Ford dealerships. By 1953, Smith had
three dealerships in the suburbs of Detroit.
Soon thereafter, he moved to Palm Beach, Fla.,
and opened up another dealership. That dealer-
ship ranked first in the U.S. in Ford sales three
consecutive years. Smith also ran a television
show called “Kruise Kids,” which featured pre-
teen children deep-sea fishing. He provided
more than 5,000 children with the opportunity
to go fishing and appear on his show.

SAMUEL M. ENGELHARDT JR., °34,
former consultant to Alabama Power Co., on
Jan. 16, 1991. While at W&L, he was a
member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.
After leaving W&L in 1932, he worked for the
Alabama Highway Department from 1933 to
1936. He then started working as a cotton
planter and ginner. In 1944, he became a part-
ner in the law firm of Engelhardt & Thomp-
son. In 1963, he started working as a consul-
tant for Alabama Power Co., which he con-
tinued to do until his retirement in 1981.
Englehardt was a former Alabama _ state
representative and a former state senator. He
was a highway director of Alabama and a state
chairman of the Democratic Party. He was also
a Rotarian and a member of the Society of
Pioneers of Montgomery, Alla.

LOUIS F. LUBRECHT, °34, retired auditor
for the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue,
on July 13, 1991. While at W&L, he was a
member of the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity.

After graduation, he worked for Price
Waterhouse and Co., Permatex Co., General
Motors, and Bethlehem Steel before becoming
a tax examiner for the Pennsylvania state
government. He was a member of St. Andrew
in the Valley Episcopal Church, Lafayette
Lodge 199, F&AM, Lock Haven, Zembo
Temple, and the Lake Naomi Club.

THOMAS D. ALDEN, °35, retired U.S.
Foreign Service officer, on Aug. 17, 1991.
Alden joined the U.S. Foreign Service in 1956,
and served as attache in the embassies of Rome,
Buenos Aires, and London. He retired to Spain
in 1976, and returned to the U.S. in 1979, liv-
ing in Garrison, N.Y.

ROBERT R. FINN, ’38, retired public relations
supervisor for DuPont, died Dec. 18, 1990, in
Seminole, Fla. While at W&L, he was a
member of the Delta Upsilon fraternity and was
on the baseball and swimming teams. He
worked at DuPont in Niagara Falls, N.Y., for
37 years before retiring in 1977. Finn was a
member of DuPont's 25-Year Club and its bowl-
ing and golf leagues. He was a member,
vestryman, and treasurer at Epiphany Episcopal
Church in Niagara Falls. He was also a
Republican committeeman from the DeVeaux
section of Niagara Falls.

GEORGE K. MEIER JR., °38, retired attorney,
on Nov. 28, 1990, in Sunset Beach, N.C. After
attending W&L, he graduated from Rutgers law
school in 1939. He opened his own law prac-

tice in 1949, and became a legal assistant in the
Essex County (N.J.) prosecutor's office. Meier
was assistant prosecutor from 1953 to 1957. He
was referee to the Juvenile Conference Com-
mittee at North Caldwell, N.J., and chapter
chairman of the West Essex chapter of the
American Red Cross. Meier was also a member
of the Essex County and American Bar
Associations.

A. WARD ARCHER, °39, president and co-
owner of Mid-South Communications Inc., on
Aug. 4, 1991, on a tennis court in Knoxville,
‘Tenn. Archer was a member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon at W&L, and graduated magna cum
laude. He served in the U.S. Navy during World
War II, and worked as a reportef and copy
editor for The Commercial Appeal in Memphis,
Tenn. In 1952, he cashed in $1,700 in U.S.
Savings Bonds, and formed Ward Archer and
Associates, which he built into one of the Mid-
South’s largest advertising agencies. Archer was
first vice president of the Association of Area
Business Publications, and was scheduled to
become president of the national trade group
in January. He was the recipient of numerous
civic awards, including Master of Free Enter-
prise in 1989 by Junior Achievement of Greater
Memphis, Man of the Year by the Memphis
Agricultural Club in 1982, and Communicator
of the Year by the Memphis Chapter of the
Public Relations Society of America. Archer was
also a former president of the Advertising Club
of Memphis and a member of the board of the
Memphis Rotary Club.

 

Wada Phyllis Wade Keller
(1924-1991)

 

One of the first women to take undergraduate
courses at Washington and Lee, Wada Phyllis Wade
Keller, died Oct. 22, 1991, at the age of 67.

Keller, wife of Harold C. “Hal” Keller, 43, was
one of a group of 28 women who enrolled at W&L
during the summer of 1942. The University accepted
female students for two summers during World War II
while many of its male students served in the war.
lollowing those two wartime summers, however,
W&L returned to all-male status until fully coedu-
cating in 1985.

Keller apparently made quite an impression in
her days at W&L. It was her future husband who
penned a 1942 Ring-tum Phi article announcing her
arrival. ‘The article told the W&L community, “In
order to dispell all rumors, Miss Wade is 5’4”, weighs
approximately 115 pounds, has blonde hair, blue eyes

and is what is usually considered more than ordinarily
attractive.” Keller also inspired English professor
Fitgerald Flournoy to write a poem about her that
appeared in The Southern Collegian. The poem, titled
“Blonde Bomber,” stated that “no man could feel old
or poor when Wada wears her pinafore.”

In a 1984 Roanoke Times © World-News interview,
Keller remembered her male W&L classmates as
“cool and indignant at the intrusion on their premises.”
Doing most of her work in the School of Commerce,
she also saw some of the males as “flirtatious.”

Keller, a full-time student at Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College, attended W&L to earn credits so
she could graduate in three years. She went on to
become society page editor for the Roanoke newspa-
pers from 1943-45, and later served as public rela-
tions director for Natural Bridge.

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 61

 

RICHARD H. WOLFE, ’39, retired insurance
agent, on June 20, 1991, in Georgetown, Ky.
He went to W&L for a year before attending
Georgetown College. He served in the U.S.
Army during World War II, seeing action as a
member of George Patton’s Fifth Army. Wolfe
was a former partner of Craig & Hall Insurance
Agency, a former director of First National
Bank, and a past president of Georgetown
Cemetery Co. and Cardome Inc. He was a
former deacon at First Christian Church, a
former member of the Bluegrass Council of the
Boy Scouts, a Mason, and a Shriner.

WILLIAM C. CHURCH JR., °40, attorney, on
July 25, 1991, in San Antonio, Texas. Church
attended W&L for a year before graduating
from the University of ‘Texas’ with
undergraduate and law degrees. He served in
the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General Corps
during World War II, before going to San An-
tonio to practice law. He was a former mayor
and a judge in Terrell Hills, Texas. He was a
former president of the San Antonio Bar
Association, and a member of the Texas Bar
and American Bar Associations. He was also a
member of several other organizations, in-
cluding the ‘Texas Cavaliers.

ROBERT D. GAGE III, °42, °44L, chairman
of the board and former president of the Port
Gibson Bank, on July 21, 1991, in Port Gib-
son, Miss. While at W&L, he was a member
of the Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity before serv-
ing on a U.S. Navy destroyer in the Pacific
shortly after graduation. After his discharge, he
graduated from the University of Mississippi law
school in 1947. He practiced law for five years
before starting work for the Port Gibson Bank.
Gage became president and board chairman of
the bank upon the death of his father in 1970.
He was chairman of the Claiborne County
Democratic Executive Committee for several
years, and was a member of the Port Gibson
Lions Club and Chamber of Commerce. He
was president of the Mississippi Bankers
Association in 1978-79 and a board member of
the Mississippi Economic Council, the Port
Gibson Oil Works, and the Vicksburg Hospital.
Gage was a former member of the mission com-
mittee and a former lay-reader of St. James
Episcopal Church.

JOSEPH H. GRUBBS JR., °42, former co-
owner of the Walker, Grubbs and Brown In-
surance Co., died March 14, 1991, in Rich-
mond, Va. He was a native of Richmond. In
addition to his work with his insurance firm, he
was a legislative assistant to former Virginia state
Sen. William F. Parkerson Jr. in the 1970s and
1980s.

EDWARD J. McCARTY, °42, past president
of the Richmond Chapter of the W&L Alumni
Association, on April 8, 1991. He graduated
62 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

cum laude from W&L, and entered the U.S.
Navy. He flew seaplanes in both the Atlantic
and Pacific theaters, and rose to the rank of
lieutenant. After the war, he worked as a sales
administrator for Reynolds Metal Co., an under-
writer for an insurance company, and an ex-
aminer for the Virginia State Corporation Com-
mission. In 1957, he joined Southern Bank and
‘Trust Co. McCarty was also a member of the
Kiwanis Club of Richmond, a director of Cen-
tral Richmond Association, a member of the
American Institute of Banking and Consumer
Bankers Association. He was a member of
several other organizations, as well, including
the Richmond Association of Credit Manage-
ment, the Virginia Manufacturers Association,
the Real Estate Board of Richmond, and the
U.S., Virginia, and Richmond Chambers of
Commerce.

STUART M. FAISON, ’44, retired professor
at Miami-Dade Community College, on Aug.
12, 1991, in Miami. He was a member of the
Beta Theta Pi fraternity while at W&L. He
moved to Florida shortly after graduation and
became a certified public accountant, with his
own practice in Marathon, Fla., in the late
1950s and early 1960s. He began teaching ac-
counting at Miami-Dade in 1966, retiring in
March 1991. After his retirement, he continued
keeping an office at the college, and was work-
ing on a computerized tutorial system to help
students learn accounting, statistics, and
economics.

GEORGE O. PHILLIPS, °43, on Nov. 25,
1990. He lived in Hampton, Va.

EDWARD P. LYONS, JR., °44, °49L, former
trust officer, on May 23, 1991. While at W&L,
he was a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity
and graduated Phi Beta Kappa. He served as
a fighter pilot in the South Pacific during World
War II, flying 108 missions. After getting a law
degree from W&L in 1949, he practiced law
in Memphis, Tenn., for seven years before
moving to Clearwater, Fla., in 1956. He prac-
ticed law there for 12 more years before he
joined the trust division of First National Bank
in 1968. He was a Rotarian and a member of
the Florida and Tennessee Bar Associations.

FRANK CARTER JR., ’49, a prominent Atian-
ta developer, died July 18, 1991, in the Univer-
sity of Arizona Cancer Center in Tuscon. While
at W&L, he was a member of Phi Delta Theta.
He served as an officer in the U.S. Army during
World War II before graduating from W&L.
Carter was nicknamed “The mayor of Midtown”
for his work in shaping the skyline of Atlanta.
He developed the Campanile Building, 1100
Peachtree Tower, Greenbriar Mall, Northlake
Mall, Cumberland Mall, and Southlake Mall.
His real estate firm had $1 billion in commer-

cial properties in Atlanta and in other Southern
cities. Carter was a founder of the Underground
Festival Development Co., which revived
Underground Atlanta, re-opening it in 1989. He
created Atlanta Heritage Row, where
Underground visitors could see vignettes of local
history, and he helped build the Academy
Theater, which opened in the BellSouth
building in 1985. Carter was president of the
Atlanta Chamber of Commerce, chairman of
Central Atlanta Progress, chairman of the board
of Shepherd Spinal Center, and chairman of the
board of the Lovett School.

RALPH I. FAULK, °49, former operator of
Faulk Chevrolet Co. in Thomasville, Ga., on
June 15, 1991, in Thomasville. While at W&L,
he was a member of the Kappa Alpha Order.
During World War II, he served with the Marine
Corps in the Pacific ‘Theater for four years. After
graduating from W&L, he operated Faulk
Chevrolet for more than 30 years, retiring in
1978. He served on the board of directors of
the Commercial Bank and was a president of
the ‘Thomasville- Thomas County Chamber of
Commerce. He served as chairman of the
United Way and on the boards of the YMCA,
the Southwest Georgia Mental Health Associa-
tion, and the board of deacons of First
Presbyterian Church. Faulk was a past presi-
dent of Thomasville Landmarks and the
‘Thomasville Music and Drama ‘Troupe. He had
been a member of the Rotary Club, Elks Lodge,
and Moose Lodge. He was elected to the city
commission in 1956, and also served on the
board of the City Parks and Recreation
Department.

LEWIS P. COLLINS Ill, °51, ’56L, retired
advertising manager for radio station WMEV in
Marion, Va., died July 2, 1991, at Holston Hills
Country Club while playing golf. He was the
son of former Virginia Lieutenant Governor
Lewis Preston Collins I]. While at W&L, he
was a member of Phi Kappa Sigma and the
Sigma Society. He served in the U.S. Navy for
two years between graduating froom W&L
undergrad and beginning law school. Collins
practiced law in Marion for eight years before
becoming WMEV’s advertising manager. He
retired in 1972. He was a member of the Smyth
County and American Bar Associations, a
deacon of the Royal Oak Presbyterian Church,
and a member of the board of directors of
several organizations, including the Smyth
County Community Hospital and the Smyth
County Mental Health Association.

‘THOMAS P. WINBORNE, ’51, ’53L, retired
senior employee relations manager for Procter
& Gamble, on Sept. 25, 1991, in Cincinnati.
While at W&L, he was a member of the Kap-
pa Signa fraternity. After graduation from
W&L, he earned a master’s degree in business
from the University of North Carolina. He then

went on to work for the Procter & Gamble
Company for 32 years. He was a noted Cin-
cinnati ornithologist and was active in the
Episcopal Church.

ELLIS W. DAVIS, 63, assistant vice president
of Dominion Bank, on Jan. 20, 1991. After
graduating from Ferrum College, he worked at
Modine Manufacturing Co., in Buena Vista, Va.
In 1969, he started working for Dominion Bank
when it was known as the First National Ex-
change Bank. He was promoted to Glasgow of-
fice manager in 1982, and was a top graduate
of the Virginia Bankers School of Bank Manage-
ment in 1986. Davis was a member of the
Rockbridge County School Board for nine
years, and served on the Joint Committee for
Control of Lexington High School. He was one
of the organizers of the U.S. bicentennial ac-
tivities in the Rockbridge area, was a founder
of the Glasgow-Natural Bridge Little League
Assoc., and was active in the Natural Bridge
Ruritan Club. He was a member of Ben Salem
Presbyterian Church.

BRIG. GEN. RANDOLPH T. POORE, ’66,
a U.S. Army brigadier general and veteran of
the Vietnam War, on Sept. 19, 1991, in Seoul,
Korea. While at W&L, he was a member of the
Kappa Sigma fraternity. He was commissioned
into the Army in 1966 and served as a materiel
and supply officer with an airborne brigade in
Vietnam from 1969 to 1971. He then was sta-
tioned at Fort McNair before going to Michigan,
where he worked with the Army tank and
automotive command from 1974 to 1977. Later
posts included assistant chief of staff for plans
and operations of the 82nd Airborne Division
and assistant chief of the assignment branch of
the Army Personnel Center in Alexandria, Va.
rom 1989 to July 1991, he was assistant com-
mandant of the Army Ordnance Center and
School at the Aberdeen (Md.) Proving Grounds.
Since July 1991, he had been assistant chief of
staff for plans and operations of the 8th Army
and other U.S. and allied forces in Korea. Poore
had several decorations, including the Legion
of Merit, six Bronze Stars, six Meritorious Ser-
vice Medals, two Army Commendation Medals,
and the Defense Meritorious Service Medal. He
also held the master parachutist badge. He had
carned a master’s degree in mechanical
engineering from the University of Alabama and
a master’s degree in business administration
trom Campbell College in North Carolina.

MICHAEL R. DUNN, °68, in May 1991.

WILSON MORROW MILLER, ’73L, Buena
Vista, Va., attorney, on Aug. 14, 1991. He died
from an aneurysm. Miller had been an attorney
in Buena Vista since 1974, and he was a former
member of the Glasgow Town Council. He was
planning to run for Rockbridge County com-
monwealth’s attorney. Miller was a native of
Lexington.

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS

 

 

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer
and dark pine stain. The five color crest of the University is painted on the
back of each chair or rocker. They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture
and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas, birthdays, graduation,
anni-versaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair goes to the
scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, '14.

ARM CHAIR BOsTON ROCKER
© Black lacquer with cherry arms © Black lacquer

© Dark pine © Dark pine

$235.00 $220.00

 

THE BOSTON ROCKER REQUIRES SOME ASSEMBLY.
Prices include freight charges.

 

 

 

To order: Include your name, address, your telephone number, and a telephone
number, if known, for the delivery location. Indicate chair or rocker and color.
Make check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Please allow 6-8 weeks delivery.

Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 63

 

 

Alumni College

CAMPUS

A CONVERSATION ON AMERICA: REFLECTIONS ON FivE MAJsor ISSUES (June 2/-27)

A probing discussion of the national debt, crime and the courts, politics and the presidency, the environment, and

 

education, with a further exploration of the social, political, and economic values that lie behind the headlines, that
form our character as a people. Joining W&L faculty Chuck Boggs, Dave Caudill, Rick Heatley, Bruce Herrick, and
Bob Strong will be several alumni and guest experts, including Sol Wachtler, 51, Chief Judge of the State of New
York; Gray Castle, ’53, Deputy Undersecretary of Commerce; Al Broaddus, 61, of the Federal Reserve; University of

Virginia professor and author James Ceaser; and others.

Loca Voices: LITERATURE AND MUSIC OF THE UNITED STATES (June 28-July 4)

Classic examples of our nation’s literature and music and how they arise from within our culture, giving voice to

local places, values, and traditions that are uniquely American. Works by Mark ‘Twain, Emily Dickinson, William
Faulkner, Robert Frost, and ‘Tom Wolfe, along with the music of American
composers Aaron Copland, Leonard Bernstein, Charles Ives, Duke
Ellington, and George Gershwin. Faculty include Severn Duvall, Rob

Fure, ‘Tim Gaylard, and Gordon Spice, along with distinguished guests.

THE RUSSIANS: FROM EMPIRE TO DISUNION (Ju/y 5-//)
An examination of the recent extraordinary events in the Soviet Union
within the context of 250 years of Russian history. Additional focus on
current events inside Russia and prospects for future relations with the
United States. Faculty include Richard Bidlack, Lamar Cecil, and Bill
Jenks, with distinguished guests John Dahlberg, ’75, Moscow correspon-
dent for the Los Angeles Times; |gor Khripunov, First Secretary of the

U.S.S.R. Embassy to the United States; and several other Russian guests.

THE NILE KINGDOMS: ANCIENT EGyPt (Ju/y /2-/8)

The timeless artistic, spiritual, and architectural achievements of ancient
Egypt (3100-30 B.C.), arguably “the grandest civilization that mankind has
ever produced.” Guiding us will be Kent Weeks, internationally renowned
Egyptologist from the American University of Cairo, along with W&L
Professor of History ‘Taylor Sanders and Mary Ellen Soles, curator of
ancient art for the North Carolina Museum of Art, which is co-sponsoring
the program. Like the Russia program, “The Nile Kingdoms” will anti-

cipate a travel program in 1993.

ABROAD

Ask us about the W&L-sponsored educational travel programs:
New ZEALAND/AUSTRALIA (February 21-March 12)
with Terry O’Brien

A Mississippt VOYAGE (Apri/ 2-10)
with Bud Robertson

 

TREASURES OF CosTA R1Ica (Apri/ 13-27)
with Kirk Follo

For further information, contact:

CENTRAL EUROPE (Ju/y 30-August 13)

Office of Special Programs bs se B
“ y oP with Jefferson Davis Futch

Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450 rh >

Daas - THE RENAISSANCE IN FLORENCE (October / 1-23)
(703) 463-8723

64 W&L Alumni Magazine

 

 

 

 

 

 

992

C2 «3 So. FE UN EON: Ss

HONORING
THE ACADEMIC AND LAW CLASSES

1942 1947 1952 1957 1962

1967 1972 1977 1982 1987

 

Thursday evening, May 7

Reunion Keynote Address
Lloyd A. Dobyns Jr., °57, Free-lance writer
Reception at the Alumni House

l'riday, May 8

Reunion Seminars
“WEL Today: A Student Panel Discussion”
6, ; . : . : . ks ce > ‘ , . ” /
Aferr the Rec re Reform in on " arsaw Pact Nations N | AY 7; 8, 9
“Environmental Update: Prognosis for the Planet”
“Politics and the Media: Who Really Elects Our Leaders?”

“Vietnam: An Oral History”

 

 

 

 

Cocktails with the Faculty
Buffet Dinner featuring the Johnny McClenon Big Band
Reunion Dance featuring Spectrum

Saturday, May 9

Annual Joint Meeting of the Undergraduate and Law
Alumni Associations in Lee Chapel

Picnic Luncheon

Class Banquets and Parties

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee University
Alumni Magazine

Lexington, Virginia 24450

NON-PROFIT ORG.
U.S.POSTAGE
PAID
PERMIT NO. 6238
CINCINNATI, OH

 

» Bi ok SS ata Pl Ee a on dh

 

 

 

