:

/ERST
50

.
'

SPRING 1991

‘\

HINGTON & LEE UNI
G Ad

VA. 2

TON,

AIN

=z ws annem Soe
Aare eens Bale! —_
- ry “J tik
o a we i Z Sr. oeer

ae
a
xt
a
etd
ee)
=
2

4
N

Se he
en aie ae aie all
ae TT ad

iw Pe To el

Quatre

“a i

-

: 1E WASHINGTO

 

Arch.
—'s

> ot fj

W317 c

Vv. 66
vO. (

 

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

 

ANNE Cou..ineG, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

Denise Kunn, Designer

Joe. Smiru Jr., Class Notes Editor
Patrick Hinevy, Photographer
MicuHaeL Sracuura, Sports Editor
WixuraM Cocke IV, Contributing Editor

Evan Arkins, Contributing Editor

Type for this magazine was set using equip-
ment provided through the generosity of Mary
Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, ‘Texas.

Published four times a year in April, July, Oc-
tober, and December by Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia 24450. All com-
munications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent
to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Va. 24450. Third-class postage paid at Cincin-
nati, Ohio 45214. Signed articles reflect the views
of their authors and not necessarily those of the
editorial staff or the University.

Washington and Lee University

A. Srevens Mives Jr., 51, Rector

Joun D. Wirson, President

Brian D. Suaw, Director of
Communications

Communications Advisory Board

Davip M. Cuincer, °55
Rosert S. Keere, '68

Anprew H. McCurcueon, °48
Rosert Mort ey, '64
ELIZABETH OBENSHAIN

FRANK A. Parsons, °54
Matruew W. Paxton, °49
Cuarues S. Rowe, 45

SaraAH K. Wiant, ’78L

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers
Joun W. Rosinson IV, °72
President, Tampa, Fila.

J. RicHarp O’Conne tt, °56, *58L
Vice President, Baltimore, Md.

James D. Farrar Jr., °74
Secretary and Director of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

Rosert W. H. Misu III, °76

Assistant Secretary, Lexington, Va.

Directors

BENJAMIN L. Battey, °75
Charleston, W Va.

WituiaM M. Bowen, 61
Hilton Head Island, S.C.

Joun A. Cockveresce Jr., °76, °79L
Winston-Salem, N.C.

Water T. Duptey, 74, °79L
Alexandria, Va.

G. Arcuer Frierson II, 73
Shreveport, La.

VirGINIA BUMGARDNER Garrison, *75L
Staunton, Va.

Cray T. Jackson, °76
Nashville, Tenn.

Rosert S. Keere, 68
New York, NY.

Cuartes T. McCorp III, 63
Houston, Texas

Epwarp F. Meyers Jr., 61, “63L
Cleveland, Ohio

Micuaet G. Morcan, “68

Stamford, Conn.

Mason T. New, *62
Richmond, Va.

Eucene C. Perry Jr., °75, °78L
Philadelphia, Pa.

WitutaM J. Russewe Jr., °57
Malvern, Pa.

WituiaM E. Smitu Jr., 63
Birmingham, Ala.

Warren A. STEPHENS, '79
Little Rock, Ark.

J. Frank Sureace Jr., 60
Jacksonville, Fla.

Micuaet T. THornton, °70, °78L
Atlanta, Ga.

 

 

 

ae a ae oe

 

 

It was the second Saturday in March,
and I was among a crowd of spectators who
were streaming from Wilson Field. The
lacrosse team had just won an impressive
victory over seventh-ranked Randolph-
Macon; the weather was brisk, but sunny;
and fans were headed for parties and events
all over town. They had cheered for the
team enthusiastically, but they had seemed
a bit distracted. That was understandable:
It was, after all, Fancy Dress weekend, and
they had other things to think about.

As we headed up the hill toward Liber-
ty Hall, one member of the crowd—a re-
cent graduate—glanced at the students
around him. “They look just like we did,”
he mused. Another alumnus nodded. “It
hasn’t changed.”

It hasn't changed. That's an odd com-
ment, considering that signs of change are
everywhere these days at Washington and
Lee. Just over the alumnus’s right shoulder
loomed an addition to Lewis Hall, which
will house the collection of Justice Lewis
Powell’s papers. Behind him was the
Lenfest Center, which had seen its first
musical and dramatic performances a
month or two earlier. The alumnus himself
was headed to a party at the Student Ac-
tivities Pavilion, because his fraternity
house was under construction as part of the
extensive fraternity renaissance program.

But I have a hunch that to this alum-
nus, and to others like him, these are only
external changes. For them, the essentials
of Washington and Lee have remained the
same. Traditions do continue here—the
Fancy Dress ball, fraternity parties,
Homecoming weekend. And students to-
day are carrying on Washington and Lee’s
legacy of academic excellence, too. That
was never so evident as this past fall, when
Pat Lopes, a Washington and Lee senior
and honor scholar, became the 15th W&L
student to win a Rhodes scholarship.

‘This issue of the magazine features the
old and the new, tradition and change. We
discuss the accomplishments of Pat Lopes
and her fellow honor scholars; the progress
of fraternity renovations; and a magnificent
gift from Frances and Sydney Lewis to
help fund the addition to the law school.

And while we're on the subject of
change. . . .you may have noticed that re-
cent issues of the magazine have looked
a bit different. We're still tinkering, and we
hope you'll be patient as we try to give you
the very best magazine possible.

—A.B.C.

 

 

CONTENTS

VOLUME 66, NUMBER 1, SPRING 1991

FEATURES

2 Oxford Bound

Senior Pat Lopes, a politics and journalism major from Hawati, becomes the 15th Rhodes
scholar in Washington and Lee’s history.

7 Three Fraternity Houses Renovated

The first stage of Washington and Lee’s fraternity renaissance program has ended, as students
return to Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Sigma Nu.

12 The Best and Brightest

In a competitive admissions environment, how does the University recruit top students? Honor
scholarships are an important factor.

16 W&L Reacts to Gulf War

The University community watched the news from the Middle East anxiously this winter,
since at least 30 alumni were deployed as part of Operation Desert Storm.

17. Developing CEOs

Two alumni who are chief executive officers speak about their careers and the impact of
their Washington and Lee education.

18 Lewises Pledge $1 Million for Addition

Frances and Sydney Lewis, 40, '43L, have given Washington and Lee $1 million to
construct a new wing at Lewis Hall.

20 The Generals’ Report

It was a dreary winter for Washington and Lee’s athletic teams—but amidst the gloom
there were a few rays of sunshine.

GAZETTE CLASS NOTES

22 Center Opens 39 Alumni Notes

23 Founders’ Day 48 Marriages/Births
29 Trustees Meet 51 In Memoriam

30 W&L History 56 And Furthermore

32 Alumni News

On the cover: Members of Sigma Nu assemble in the living room of their renovated house before
dinner. (See story on page 7.)

 

 

O ord
TBpund

““W&L doesn't
encourage you
only to be a
scholar; ... it
encourages you
to be a person.
You don't just
study all the
time and

LIKE ANY GOOD JOURNALIST,
Pat Lopes, ’91, has always been more
comfortable reporting the news than
creating it.

But when she returned to Wash-
ington and Lee in January after being
selected as W&L’s 15th Rhodes scholar,
Lopes found herself something of a
campus celebrity. She was congratulated,
photographed, and interviewed. Her
picture—and not her byline—appeared
on the student newspaper’s front page.
She joked that she needed a press agent.

‘The sudden attention was a little
bewildering for this five-foot-three, slim
brunette, who never expected to win a
Rhodes and resisted applying in the
first place.

“I didn’t really even know what
the Rhodes was until last October,” she
explains one January afternoon shortly
after her return from Christmas vacation.

 

become a
machine;
you learn
to deal
with other

people.”

 

 

SENIOR BECOMES W&L'S 15th
RHODES SCHOLAR

By Anne Coulling

be lucky, and I had what the Rhodes
people were looking for.”

Lopes was battling severe bronchitis
last fall when Ken Ruscio, *76, assistant
dean of students for freshmen and resi-
dence life and Lopes’ politics professor,
convinced her to apply for the prestigious
scholarship. She relented only after per-
sistent “badgering,” so she was startled
when, in late November, the Rhodes
committee invited her to interview in
her home state of Hawaii.

“I didn’t even think about taking
clothes to wear on the West Coast,” she
says. “I didn’t expect to make it to the
final round of interviews, in Los Angeles.”

But those who know her best on
the W&L campus were not at all sur-
prised when the news filtered back from
California: Lopes’ name had been in-
cluded among the 32 Rhodes winners.
“Pat is not only involved in many

areas of student life; she has

also made a real difference in
those areas,” Ruscio explains.

“And she gets involved for all

the right reasons: She’s con-

cerned about making W&L a
better place. She reflects all
the qualities that I hope the

Rhodes stands for.

“She also has that rare
ability to have a lot of self-confi-
dence without an ounce of ego
or conceit. You can’t help but
be genuinely happy about her
accomplishment.”

For her part, Lopes gives
much of the credit for the

Lopes confers with associate editor Alesha Priebe in the office of the Ring-tum Phi.

o:. WEL,

“] don’t consider myself to be better than
other people; I think I just happened to

Rhodes to Washington and Lee.

“I was very lucky to come to
W&L because it encourages students
to be well-rounded,” she says. “There

 

 

 

 

 

 

3

W&L

are sO Many Opportunities
to getinvolved, and the
atmosphere is_ very
friendly and not compet-
itive at all. ‘There aren't
many roadblocks in your
way if you want to
participate in student
activities.”

A case in point:
During her first week in
school, Lopes was recruited
by Coach James Phemister
to join the cross country
team. When Phemister
began hissales pitch, Lopes
had just completed her
freshman swimming test
and was standing, drip-

 

 

ping wet, in Warner
Center. ‘The
worked; she ran with the

tactic

team for the next four
years.

“When I came to
W&L, I thought I would
just study and not get in-
volved in a lot of other ac-

 

tivities,” Lopes recalls.

“But one thing led to another, and be-
fore I knew it I was a dorm counselor
and I was writing for the P47, too.”

By the time her senior year rolled
around, Lopes was leading a dizzying
schedule. She was coeditor of the student
newspaper, served as a resident assistant
in Gaines Hall, and spent 10 hours a
week working in the dining hall. All the
while she was pursuing a double major
in journalism and politics.

But she wouldn’t have had it any
other way. “W&L doesn’t encourage
you only to be a scholar, even though
that’s an important part of your life. It
encourages you to be a person. You don’t
just study all the time and become a
machine; you learn to deal with other
people and really talk to them. I never
felt comfortable doing that before I
came to W&L.”

Pat Lopes came to Washington and
Lee for the first time four years ago this
month, when the Admissions Office in-
vited her to visit the campus, free of

4 W&L

 

 

Clockwise from above: Lopes competes with the cross country team, speaks with classmate
Tim Clark during a Super Bowl party in Gaines Hall, and works in Evans Dining Hall.

charge. She was a candidate for the
University’s honor scholarships program,
and she was eventually chosen to receive
one of the prestigious Best Products
Foundation scholarships.

That award made all the difference,
Lopes says. “Without that money, |
never would have attended Washington
and Lee. I would have wanted to, but I
never could have afforded it.”

She enrolled in the fall of 1987.
Lexington was much different from her
hometown of Kailua, but she loved the
school immediately. “My earliest thought
about how much I liked it came one
foggy morning my freshman year, when
I was out running. I looked around at the
campus, at the green leaves and the red
buildings, and I thought, “This place is
just like a storybook.’ ”

During her college years, Lopes has
come to appreciate other aspects of Wash-
ington and Lee. The faculty, she says,
“are very concerned about the students,
and they have a lot to offer. Not only

are they wonderful
scholars, but many of
them have amazing con-
tacts and they can help
students find jobs and
internships.”

Under the auspices
of W&L’s Washington
Term Program, Lopes
had a six-week intern-
ship in the office of Sen.
Daniel Inouye. She also
spent a summer intern-
ing for the Honolulu
Star-Bulletin—thanks in
part to recommenda-
tions by W&L’s jour-
nalism faculty.

Lopes has always
wanted to be a journalist,
and after she earns a sec-
ond bachelor’s degree at
Oxford, she hopes to re-
turn to Hawaii and get a
job with a newspaper.

“I know people ex-
pect me to do something

else, and not be ‘just’ a
reporter,” she says. “But
my heart is in Hawaii, and that’s where
I’ve always wanted to be.”

Wherever she winds up, Lopes will
have left her mark on Washington and
Lee. Her picture will hang perma-
nently in the library alongside those of
W&L’s other Rhodes scholars. At the
same time, Washington and Lee has
left its mark on Patricia Lopes.

“| think if I had gone to another
school, I never would have qualified to
win a Rhodes,” she says. “I’m not sure
I would have even thought to apply.

“The wonderful thing about this
place is, the faculty push you to do your
very best, whatever it is. Shoot to be
Diane Sawyer. Shoot to win a Rhodes
scholarship. Don’t worry about what
will happen if you don’t make it; just
do it.

“And you know what happens?”
She pauses, incredulous. “You end up
with a Rhodes scholarship.”

Washington and Lee's Rhodes Scholars

elt
Not

Available

Joel Jackson Davenport
Rodgers, ’09

Rodgers was a student at
Washington and Lee for
several years but never
received a degree. He at-
tended Jesus College at
Oxford from 1908 to 1911
and studied English lan-
guage and literature. He
was an attorney in Tus-
kegee, Ala., and died in
1960.

 

Clarence Pendleton

Lee Jr., ’32

Lee attended Exeter
College from 1933 to
1935, where he studied
English language and
literature. He was chair-
man of the humanities
division at Jacksonville
University and also taught
at Harvard and Clark
Universities and the
University of the South.
He died in 1978.

 

Francis Pickens Miller, 14
Miller studied history

and theology at ‘Trinity
College from 1919 to 1921
and from 1922 to 1923.
He served in the Virginia
state legislature and in
the State Department.
He died in 1978.

 

 

 

 

 

Edgar Finley Shannon
Jr., 39

Shannon studied English
language and literature
from 1947 to 1950 at
Merton College. He is
the former president of
the University of Virginia
and is a trustee emeritus
of Washington and Lee.

 

Fitzgerald Flournoy, ’21,
"22MA

Flournoy attended Exeter
College from 1922 to 1925

and studied English lan-
guage and literature. He
taught English at Wash-
ington and Lee from 1926
until his death in 1964.

 

Robert Owen Paxton, ’54

From 1954 to 1956,
Paxton attended Merton
College and studied
modern history. He re-
ceived an honorary degree
from W&L in 1974 and
serves as professor of
history at Columbia

University.

 

 

Samuel Adams
McCain, ’27

McCain studied jurispru-
dence at Exeter College
from 1927 to 1930. He was
general counsel and vice
president of the Corn
Products Co. in New
York and died in 1964.

 

 

John Blythe McLin, ’60

McLin studied politics,
philosophy, and econom-
ics at Wadham College
from 1960 to 1962. He
now works for the Inter-
national Labor Office in
Geneva.

2

W&L

6

 

Timothy Arthur
Vanderver, 65

From 1965 to 1967,
Vanderver was a student in
jurisprudence at Exeter
College. He is a partner with
the law firm Patton, Boggs,
and Blow in Washington,
D.C. Vanderver’s son, ‘Tim,
is a junior at W&L.

 

 

Marvin Charles
Henberg, ’70

Henberg studied politics,
philosophy, and economics
at Magdalen College from
1971 to 1973. He is a pro-
fessor of philosophy and
director of the honors pro-
gram at the University of

Idaho.

 

 

 

 

 

Ralph Harrison Smith, ’73
Smith attended Corpus
Christi College from 1973 to
1976 and studied politics,
philosophy, and economics.
He is an attorney with
Johnston, Barton, et al. in
Birmingham, Ala.

 

 

Reid Is Finalist in Rhodes Competition

For the first time in recent memory, Washington and Lee sent not one, but two
finalists to the Rhodes scholarship competition last fall. Lydia Reid, ’91, of Athens,
W.Va., interviewed for the Rhodes in her home state and then advanced to the final
regional interviews in New York.

“I’m obviously disappointed not to have won, but I wouldn’t have given up the
experience for anything,” Reid says. “It has boosted my confidence tremendously.”

The entire Washington and Lee community gave her enormous encouragement
and support as she was competing for the Rhodes, Reid says. Professors wrote her
recommendations, and other members of the faculty helped prepare her with a mock
interview. (‘That interview proved to be so realistic, she claims, it was more difficult
than any that followed!) Because he was a member of her interviewing committee,
President John Wilson gave hera ride to West Virginia; and the president’s office staff
made her travel arrangements when she went to New York.

“I couldn’t have asked for a better support group,” she says. “Everyone was
tremendously helpful.”

Reid brought strong credentials to the Rhodes competition. A history major, she
has consistently been named to the dean’s list and honor roll and was elected to Phi
Beta Kappa her junior year. She is a recipient of the J. Edward Lewis scholarship,
which is awarded to deserving students from West Virginia. She also serves as
treasurer of W&L’s chapter of Amnesty International and works as a volunteer at the
Reeves Center for Research and Exhibition of Porcelain and Paintings.

Instead of attending Oxford next fall, Reid plans to enter graduate school in this
country. After she earns her doctorate in history, she would like to work as a museum
curator for several years before entering the teaching profession.

And who knows? Maybe next year she will once again pursue a Rhodes
scholarship. “I’ve found a lot of personal satisfaction just in getting to the final stage,”
she explains. “I might consider trying it again.”

 

 

W&L

 

 

Mark Andrew Bradley, ’78

Bradley studied modern
history at Christ Church
College from 1978 to 1980.
He then entered law school
at the University of Virginia.

 

 

 

 

Edward Arthur
Johnson, ’81

After pursuing studies in
metallurgy at University
College from 1981 to 1983,
Johnson joined the Army
Materials and Mechanics
Research Center.

 

 

 

 

John Christopher
Vlahoplus, ’83

Vlahoplus attended ‘Trinity
College from 1984 to 1987
and studied politics. He is
associated with the firm
Sullivan and Cromwell in
New York City.

 

 

Renovations Completed

hree Washington and Lee fraternity houses
that have been empty since last summer are
once again occupied.

The houses—Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
and Sigma Nu—are the first to be renovated under
Washington and Lee’s $13 million fraternity renaissance
program. Students moved back into SAE and Sigma Nu
at the end of Christmas break and into Phi Delt during
the Washington’s birthday vacation.

Meanwhile, renovations continue at several other
houses. University officials predict that Beta ‘Theta Pi,
Phi Kappa Sigma, and Pi Kappa Alpha will
be completed and ready for occupancy some-

 

 

Pe

 

y

L..C. (Buddy) Atkins, '68, associate dean of students for Greek affairs (standing),

and an interior designer discuss house decorations with members of the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

 

time during the spring. Since the spring term
lasts only six weeks, however, the members
of those fraternities may choose not to
return to the houses until the beginning of
school next fall.

At the same time, construction has
begun at Lambda Chi Alpha and at the for-
mer Zeta Beta ‘Tau house, which will
become the new home to Kappa Sigma.
(W&L’s ZBT chapter closed in 1988.)
Work should start at Phi Kappa Psi and Pi
Kappa Phi in the spring or early summer.

When all is said and done, the frater-
nity renaissance program will affect virtually
all of Washington and Lee’s 16 fraternity
houses, although some will require more
work than others. Chi Psi and Delta ‘Tau
Delta, for instance, need relatively modest
renovations, compared to the work at other

 

houses. Phi Gamma Delta was completely
renovated in 1986 after a devastating fire,
so it already meets Washington and Lee’s
physical standards for fraternities.

On the other hand, Sigma Chi will
likely need not just renovations, but an entirely new
structure. “The Sigma Chi house and the lot it occupies
seem to be too small for us to renovate the building
according to the University’s standards,” explains Frank
A. Parsons, 54, Washington and Lee’s coordinator of

W&L

 

 
  
   

Throughout the summer and fall months, locals

joked that Red Square resembled a war zone. By
springtime, however, the fraternities had been
completely transformed.

‘The renova-
tions have been
extensive indeed,
and where work

 

has been com-
pleted the houses
look quite differ-
ent. For instance,
the brick that
gives Red Square
its name has been
cleaned and looks
several shades
lighter. With the
addition of
sprinkler systems,

 

all the fire escapes
have been re-

 

 

 

moved. Inside,

 

the houses’ living
areas are decorated with sturdy yet attractive furniture,
live plants, and framed prints. ‘The dining rooms and
kitchens have been modernized, too.

Especially popular are the fraternity basements,
which have been renovated into sound-proof party rooms.
“Since we are located right across the street from the
police station, it was really important for us to have a
place to party where the sound would be blocked,” says
Andrew Gaffney, 91, president of SAE. “It’s made a
big difference.”

In addition to the physical renovations, other changes

 

have occurred at the fraternities. Housemothers now
live at Phi Delt, SAE, and Sigma Nu in compliance
with the University’s standards. (Sigma Nu’s resident

capital planning. “For example, it would be virtually
impossible to provide a party room separate from the
dining area at Sigma Chi in a cost-effective way.”

The University and the fraternity are investigating

the option of building a new house at Davidson Park ee es ss
P 5 . a member of the fraternity. “She’s almost like one of the

near the old ZBT house. If it becomes vacant, the i ere ar
oe ; Bogie guys,” says Jay Plotkin, ’92. “It’s like having a real mom |
existing Sigma Chi building will be renovated for some eo. , Praca |
ake there.”) Sigma Nu has also begun requiring its brothers |

other University use.

. Se to wear coat and tie to dinner three nights a week, and it
Early in March, applications from Kappa Alpha and ; :
, abe aa and SAE have held open-house receptions for members
Sigma Phi Epsilon were approved for participation in

; ; of the faculty and the Board of ‘Trustees.
Washington and Lee’s renaissance funding program.

The University is considering the construction of a new

manager, Janice Silverman, is a housemother in the
truest sense of the word: Her son, Scott, "90, was himself

 

 

house for Sig Ep in the Davidson Park area, rather than espite its successes, the progress of the 3

attempting to renovate the existing facility. renaissance has not been entirely smooth.
Parsons hopes that all of Washington and Lee’s A few weeks after the winter term began, |

fraternities will be in compliance with the University’s three undergraduates—two members of Phi Kappa Psi

standards by September 1992. Construction delays have and one member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon—were sus- |

plagued the renaissance program thus far, however, and pended for the remainder of the term for throwing

the timetable may need to be extended until January or bottles through windows at the Phi Psi house and through

even September of 1993. the window of the housemother’s suite at SAE. ‘The

a ee

8 W&L

 

 

 

 

 

 

~
oy

fir aN

7

< a

,

Px, ¥ a
Hex

 

ae
A

ela
we xe

  

i a | oT

Fire escapes have been removed from the exterior of Sigma Nu (above), while an addition has been constructed to provide more space at Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

~
LR OP.

 

-
. mY

W&L

10

suspensions sparked a controversy among the students,
many of whom claimed the punishments were too
severe.

In an open forum with the student body, W&L
President John D. Wilson and Dean of Students David
L. Howison defended their disciplinary action, saying
the vandalism threatened the success of the entire
renaissance system.

Nonetheless, the renaissance continues, and for the
most part fraternity members—and townspeople—seem
grateful. “The renovations have done so much to
improve the appearance of the downtown area,” says
Dianne Herrick, executive director of the Lexington
Downtown Development Association. Indeed, the
LDDA plans to include two of the renovated houses
next December on its annual Christmas home tour.

Meanwhile, the Greek organizations themselves
had grown weary of conducting meetings and holding
parties in various locations throughout Lexington. Most
of them just seem relieved to have their houses back.

“It was hard to hold Rush when we didn’t even
have a house,” says Plotkin, a member of Sigma Nu.
“We didn’t have a place where the brothers could sit
around and watch TV or talk. The new house has really
made a difference.”

Besides, Plotkin adds: “It’s home.”

 

Was é .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

}
|

 

 

Above, workers build a wall near Beta Theta Pi. Below, the windows of Pi Kappa Alpha show a clear view of construction at Beta.

W&L

 

jill etl ee ie i ie BE OE i te a st

 

LO

(Lisrea cs

ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Before and after: Construction crews took over Red Square during much of the past year, and a great deal of the work involved skilled masonry. At left, a member
of Sigma Nu prepares to show off his fraternity’s renovated home during a reception for faculty and staff.

W&L

11

_ Best AND

Brightest

HONOR SCHOLARSHIPS ATTRACT TOP STUDENTS

| f you have ever been the parent of a

teenager, you know the story all too well.
It’s April, your son (or daughter) is a
senior in high school, and the tension is
almost more than either of you can take.
For he is about to make one of the most
important decisions of his young life—
where to go to college.

He has taken all the campus tours,
patiently answered questions in inter-
views, filled out the requisite applica-
tions. And now that he has been accepted
to his top choices, he must weigh any
number of factors before making his se-
lection. Is this school the right size? Does
it offer the academic programs I want?
Will I be happy so close to home—or so
far away?

It’s a decision-making process made
all the more agonizing by recent demo-
graphic trends and a revolution in college
marketing techniques. ‘Today’s high
school students are members of a “baby
bust” generation. Simply put, therearen’t
enough of them to fill all the freshman
classes at all the nation’s colleges and
universities. So schools are working more
fiercely than ever to recruit the best and
the most talented of this group, sending
them slick brochures and even video-
tapes, making personal phone calls, invit-
ing them for campus visits.

Fortunately, Washington and Lee
has done better than many schools in
bucking the trends. Applications for ad-
mission this spring increased in both the
undergraduate and law school divisions,
and recent first-year classes have been
filled to the limit.

12 W&L

By Anne Coulling

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ee Ins sow

 

 

Sam Goncz, a second-year law student, enjoys WEL’s intramural sports programs, which typify the University’s
“human environment.”

 

 

 

Ashley Hurt, 92, was headed for the Ivy League until she won the

Homecoming and Fancy Dress.

hy has Washington and Lee suc-

ceeded where so many other institutions
are having trouble? Why do so many of its
applicants decide toenroll here? Nodoubt
there are any number of reasons: the
University’s distinguished
history, the beauty of its
campus, its strong academic
reputation, the loyalty of its
alumni. But W&L’s admis-
sions officers point to an-
other powerful force that
helps it attract top students
every year—its program of
honor scholarships.

In addition to the financial aid it
offers students who cannot afford to pay
the entire cost of tuition, Washington and
Lee awards scholarships that are based
entirely on merit and academic achieve-
ment. These honor scholarships have
been created through the years by nu-
merous individuals, corporations, and
alumni chapters loyal to the University.

Close to 800 high school students
applied for Washington and Lee’s honor
scholarships this year alone. Not surpris-

 

\ PF;

ingly, they were among the most promis-
ing candidates in the total applicant pool.
“The students who apply for honor
scholarships are extremely well quali-
fied,” says William M. Hartog, dean of

For most students and their families,
a scholarship which will pay part or
all of W&L's tuition is simply too
good an offer to pass up.

admissions and financial aid. “They pos-
sess academic talents and personal quali-
ties that any college in the nation would
prize.”

Every March, several dozen of the
undergraduate scholarship finalists are
brought to Lexington, free of charge, to
see the campus, meet students and pro-
fessors, and be interviewed by selection
committees. Such campus visits are often
as important as any other factor in per-
suading students to enroll at W&L, and

   

ieee’ ie

rd

 

 

William C. Dyer honor scholarship. Now she and her father, Charles D. Hurt Jr., ’59, share memories of

many of those who do not receive a cash
award do enter the University the next
fall as freshmen. Still, for some students,
it is the promise of an honor scholarship
that makes their decision final.

Pat Lopes, 91, isacase
in point. Lopes became
Washington and Lee’s 15th
Rhodes scholar last Decem-
ber; but she maintains she
never would have attended
the University in the first
place if she hadn’t won a
Best Products Foundation
scholarship. (A story about
Lopes’ decision and her experiences at
W&L begins on page 2.)

Ashley Hurt, 92, of Atlanta was also
lured to Washington and Lee by the
promise of an honor scholarship. ‘Though
her father (Charles D. Hurt Jr., 59) and
any number of other relatives had at-
tended the University, Hurt was deter-
mined to go to an Ivy League institu-
tion—until she received the William C.

Dyer honorscholarship. “ Chen I changed
my mind,” Hurt says. “And I have defi-

W&L 13

nitely never regretted it.”

For most students and their families,
a scholarship which will pay part or all of
W&L’s tuition is simply too good an offer
to pass up. That’s especially true in the
law school, where students may be reluc-
tant to pay for three extra years of school-
ing.

“Merit-based scholarships are be-
coming more and more important to our
recruiting efforts,” explains Susan Palmer,
’85L, assistant dean of the School of Law.
“Many students who don’t qualify for
need-based aid still find it hard to pay for
three years of law school—especially if
they have been in the work force and
have to forfeit a regular paycheck.”

“A legal education is expensive,”
adds Sam Goncz, ’92L, of Grove City,
Pa., who holds the Ross L. Malone honor
scholarship. “When I decided to attend
law school, W&L was my first choice. But
the scholarship made it much more at-
tractive.”

I t’s no wonder, then, that competition
for honor scholarships is stiff. ‘Those who
are chosen to receive the awards are some
of the brightest and most able students at
the University. Clearly, Washington and
Lee expects great things of its honor
scholars. It is not disappointed.

Each year, honorscholars are elected
in significant numbers to the honorary
organizations Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron
Delta Kappa, Phi Eta Sigma, and Order
of the Coif. They are named to the honor
roll and the dean’s list, and several of
them have graduated at the top of their
classes in recent years. They have re-
ceived prestigious postgraduate fellow-
ships, such as the Fulbright, the National
Science Foundation, and, of course, the
Rhodes.

Yet these students make important
contributions outside the classroom, as
well. Ashley Hurt is a good example. An
officer of Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority
and the Inter-Varsity Christian fellow-
ship, she is also a member of the Student
Activities Board and has worked as a
coach to an area youth basketball team.

144 W&L

 

 

 

. ¥ ws} a

3A.

‘7

=
mugs hs
2 re. a —“™ F
; =k

 

 

 

Karen Pope, 92, recipient of the A.B., Dolly, and Ralph Cohen scholarship, hopes to earn a law degree after
she graduates from WEL and become an advocate for abused children.

Next year, she will serve as tri-captain of
the soccer team.

Or look at the case of Bill Murray,
92. A Houston native and the recipient
of a Philip Morris honor scholarship,
Murray is an active member of W&L’s
Outing Club. He spends several hours
each week collecting trash from the
University’s dormitories and taking it toa
local recycling center. He also serves as a
dormitory counselor and as an officer of
Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.

Once they leave Washington and
Lee, the honor scholars enter a variety of

career and educational paths. Many earn
advanced degrees in science, medicine,
law, and the humanities. Others pursue
less traditional options. Karen Pope, ’92,
recipient of the A.B., Dolly, and Ralph
Cohen scholarship, wants to become an
advocate for abused and neglected chil-
dren. And Murray is interested in being
an outdoor educator.

By all accounts, Washington and
Lee’s honor scholarship program is a re-
sounding success. But University offi-
cials say additional funding is needed for
scholarships if Washington and Lee is to

continue attracting the type of student
who has traditionally made it strong.

“The number of 18-year-olds in this
country continues to shrink,” explains
Hartog. “That means the
competition to enroll these
students will intensify even
more. In such a competitive
environment, we must have
more funding for honor schol-
arships.”

Then there’s the prob-
lem of inflation. College ex-
penses have increased dramatically in
recent times, and endowment growth
has not always kept pace. A scholarship
which might have paid a full year’s tu-
ition a decade ago will now provide only
a fraction of the annual cost, and addi-
tional funds are necessary to make up the

difference.

I n coming years, colleges and univer-
sities will try harder than ever to recruit
bright and talented students. And 17-
year-olds all across the country may ago-
nize even more about their college deci-

sions. But Washington and Lee’s honor
scholars have few regrets.

“I’m definitely getting a good edu-
cation at W&L,” Pope says. “The faculty

“In such a competitive environ-
ment, we must have more funding
for honor scholarships.”

here take so much time with you. I know
I can pick upa phone at any time and call
a professor to discuss any kind of prob-
lem, whether it’s academic or personal.
They really care.”

Goncz says that most prospective
students have a Paper Chase sort of image
of law school. “But I can’t imagine W&L
ever being like that,” he adds. “I have
had a great experience here. ‘The teach-
ers and students are very intelligent and
talented, and the quality of education is
excellent. But the environment is not
cut-throatatall. Everyone iscompetitive,
but in a cooperative sort of way.

“Washington and Lee has the per-
fect balance between a strong program
and a human environment.”

It’s been three years since Ashley
Hurt decided to attend
Washington and Lee in-
stead of the Ivies. Butshe’s
never been sorry.

“T’ve loved everything
about Washington and
Lee,” Hurt says. “The
classes, the professors, the
social life—everything.

From the day I got to campus, I was glad

I had come.”

Most of all, Hurt has loved sharing
her Washington and Lee experiences
with members of her family who also
came to school here. She and her father
reminisce about trips to Goshen, Home-
coming parties, and Fancy Dress.

“My high school friends don’t al-
ways understand that sort of thing. But
my dad does.

“He knows there’s no place like Wash-
ington and Lee.”

 

 

 

 

As part of his work with the Outing Club, Bill Murray, 92, spends several hours each week helping to coordinate the Untversity’s recycling efforts.

W&L RE

ACTS

re

1D

 

 

Like the rest of the country, the Washington and Lee
community lived under the shadow of war this past winter.

Students, faculty, and administrators reacted to U.S.
involvement in the Persian Gulf war with a mixture of pride,
fear, and concern for alumni soldiers. ‘The community was
especially saddened by the death of one of its graduates
during the conflict. Marine Capt. David R. Herr Jr., ’84, was
killed on Feb. 4 when the helicopter he was flying crashed in
Saudi Arabia. Military officials said the UH-1 Huey crash was
caused by mechanical failure and was not combat-related.

Just after Herr’s death his father, a surgeon in Fort
Worth, ‘Texas, made headlines by announcing that he, too,
had decided to join the reserve forces serving in Operation
Desert Storm. (An obituary for David Herr appears in the “In
Memoriam” section of this magazine on page 58.)

‘Though Herr was the only Washington and Lee
alumnus killed during the conflict, at least 30 others partici-
pated in the war. In addition, an undergraduate who is a
member of the U.S. Marine Corps reserve forces was called
away from school and sent to the gulf. Lance Cpl. Milas E.
(Trey) Davis, 91, of Daphne, Ala., withdrew from the
University after the fall term and left soon thereafter for
Saudi Arabia.

During January and February, the war was very much on
the minds of W&L students. Just before the allies initiated
bombing on Jan. 16, some students called for a peaceful end
to the crisis, and dozens of people participated in a candle-
light peace vigil before the University Library. But once the
fighting started, many students expressed their support for
the war effort.

Several fraternities and many individual students
displayed flags outside their houses, and the Warner Center
was the scene of a rally in support of the war, which attracted
1,000 college students from across Virginia. The Student
Activities Board even announced it would consider calling
off the annual Fancy Dress Ball if the hostilities worsened.
Anxiety about international terrorism led the University to
cancel all spring-term abroad courses for 1990. It was the
second time in five years that Washington and Lee had
taken such action.

W&L’s trustees also expressed their concern about the
war, and following their regular winter meeting they ap-
proved the following resolution:

“Whereas, the members of the Board, in regard to the
war in the Persian Gulf, wish to express their utmost support
for and pride in all W&L alumni currently in the service of

146 W&L

their country; and whereas, acknowledging the fact that
these persons are acting in a long and honorable tradition of
Washington and Lee alumni before them. . .; be it resolved,
that the members of the Washington and Lee University
Board of ‘Trustees wish Godspeed to all alumni serving in
the Persian Gulf, wishing them a safe and successful return
from their endeavors on behalf of our country.”

The following is a list of Washington and Lee alumni
who participated in Operation Desert Storm. Any additions
to this list should be sent to the Alumni Office, Washington
and Lee University, Lexington VA 24450, (703) 463-8464.
Anyone wishing to obtain addresses for these servicemen
should also contact the Alumni Office.

Serving in the gulf were:

Lt. Scott C. Bahrke, ’90, U.S. Army; Lt. Col. Bruce O. Beckman, ’70,
U.S. Army; L.A. “Alex” Boykin Jr., °78, U.S. Army; Capt. Christopher B.
Burnham, ’80, U.S. Marine Corps; Capt. Scott D. Crawford, ’82, U.S.
Army; 2nd Lt. Clifford L. Deal, ’89, U.S. Army;

2nd Lt. Anthony G. DeMartino, ’89, U.S. Army; Ist Lt. Darrin
Denny, 88, U.S. Marine Corps; Capt. Thomas L. Egbert, ’83, U.S. Navy;
Capt. Thomas Gillen, ’81, U.S. Army; Capt. Jed L. Goad, 84, U.S. Army;
Capt. Anthony Ierardi, ’82, U.S. Army; 2nd Lt. James M. Johnson, ’89,
U.S. Army; Ist Lt. Arthur A. Kandarian, ’86, U.S. Army; Capt. Laurence
D. Keeley, 84, U.S. Army;

2nd Lt. C. Edward Klank, ’89, U.S. Marine Corps; Maj. David J.
Knack, '76, U.S. Army; R. Lane Lastinger, 90, U.S. Marine Corps; 1st Lt.
Jon D. Missert, ’88, U.S. Army; Dr. Harold W. Nace, ’67, U.S. Army; Capt.
Thomas A. Pizzano, ’82, U.S. Army; Maj. Robert Propst, ’76, U.S. Army;
Lt. A.A. (Cotton) Puryear, 86, U.S. Army; Capt. David P. Ridlon, ’83, U.S.

Army;

Ist Lt. Paul G. Schlimm, *87, U.S. Army; Capt. James T. Seidule,
’84, U.S. Army; Capt. Michael S. Skardon, ’83, U.S. Army; Maj. Marshall
K. Snyder, °77, U.S. Marine Corps; Col. Malcolm H. Squires Jr., °70, °73L,
U.S. Army; Maj. Kim Stenson, *75, U.S. Army; Capt. Daniel H. Thomas
III, ’84, U.S. Army; Capt. John A. Williamson, ’88L, U.S. Army; and Ralph
J. Wolfe III, °91.

Many of the alumni participating in Operation Desert
Storm were career officers, while others were members of
the reserve forces. Capt. Chris Burnham, ’80, was called away
from his duties in Connecticut’s General Assembly to serve
with the 25th Marine Regiment in the Gulf. His command-
ing officer administered the oath of office to him in the Saudi
desert on Jan. 9, the same day his counterparts were sworn in
back in Connecticut.

SECOND IN A SERIES

 

Developing CEOs

he last issue of W@L reported on a survey, conducted by

Fortune magazine, revealing that Washington and Lee
‘s one of the best training grounds in the nation for chief
executive officers.

Asurvey of 1,500 top executives of Fortune 500 and Service
500 companies ranked W&L third in producing CEOs ona per
capita basis.

Five W&L alumni were represented in the survey.
They are Charles W.

important,” he adds. “If you have the opportunity to go abroad,
you would find it much to your advantage.

“I believe strongly in the liberal arts,” he concludes.“ That’s
what education ts all about.”

nlike Robert Young, Henry Harrell was not born into a
family business. But he did grow up in Richmond, so in a
sense he was prepared early for a career in the tobacco business.
Of course, no matter

 

Cole Jr., 59, CEO of
First Maryland Bancorp;
]. Carter Fox, ’61, presi-
dent, CEO, and director
of Chesapeake Corp. in
Richmond; Henry H.
Harrell, °61, president,
CEO, and director of
Universal Corp. in Rich-
mond: Robert Van Buren,
50, chairman, CEO, and
director of Midlantic
Corp. in Edison, N.J.; and
Robert A. Young III, ’63,
president, CEQ, and

Robert A. Young Ill

 

 

what Virginians might
like to think, the state
does not have a mo-
nopoly on tobacco farm-
ing. The crop is grown
virtually the world over.
Universal Corp., the aptly
named corporation Har-
rell serves as president
and CEO, owns Univer-
sal Leaf ‘Tobacco Co.,
which buys, sells, and
processes tobacco in 20
nations around the globe.
‘The company boasts

Henry Harrell

 

 

director of Arkansas Best
Corp. in Fort Smith, Ark.

‘The survey’s results have come as no surprise to these
alumni and business leaders. “The liberal arts education is the
best foundation for business,” Young believes. “It teaches you
to learn and to express yourself in writing. A well-rounded
person is better prepared for business. If you attend a trade
school, you won’t pick up anything that will last very long,
because technical knowledge becomes obsolete. You should
specialize only after you’ve received your undergraduate degree.”

Young was born in Fort Smith and attended New Jersey’s
Lawrenceville School. He headed back south to enter Wash-
ington and Lee, where he majored in economics and was a
member of Phi Delta Theta, the Interfraternity Council, the
Student Service Society, and the University Christian Association.

Arkansas Best is a family company, and Young says he was
“born into the trucking business.” He joined the corporation in
1964, left for a few years to pursue other business interests, and
returned in 1970 as vice president for finance.

‘Today, Arkansas Best has yearly revenues of $850 million
and operates in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and Canada. But that
wasn’t the case before 1980, the year the trucking industry was
deregulated. Adjusting to that change was one of the greatest—
and most rewarding—challenges Young has ever faced.

“Trucking had been an oligopoly,” he explains. “Sud-
denly, with deregulation, we could go wherever we wanted. We
expanded rapidly, and at one point, we were opening a new
terminal every nine days. It was a lot of fun.”

Young counsels prospective business leaders and CEOs to
study the liberal arts. “Some emphasis on language is especially

20,000 employees.

‘The business has
grown enormously since Harrell joined Universal in 1966.
“Increasing sophistication has made it a more precise business,
and there is a heavier emphasis on processing skills,” he
explains. “Farming and cigarette manufacturing have become
more efficient, too.”

But the industry has had its problems, as well. Fewer
Americans are smoking these days, and that has affected
Universal’s market. Nonetheless, Harrell remains confident
about his company’s future. “Projections through the year 2000
predict that smoking will increase 2 percent worldwide,” he
explains. “And American-type cigarettes are growing in popu-
larity, too. People have been predicting the end of the industry
since the 1960s. But the outlook for the next 10 years seems
favorable, and our business is growing strongly.”

‘The liberal arts provide a strong basis for a business career,
says Harrell, who majored in English at Washington and Lee.
“A well-rounded education is especially important if one’s
career involves being a generalist.”

But no matter how well-educated one is, the job ofa CEO
is still demanding and difficult. “The full brunt of responsibility
rests with you, and that’s fine when things are going well, but
tough when they aren’t going so well,” Harrell says. “You can
have a great career being number two or number three; you
don’t necessarily have to be at the top.”

Still, for those who would aspire to the chief executive’s
office, Harrell’s advice is simple: “Get into something you
enjoy. Life has enough strains without the added one of doing
something you don’t like.”

WEL 17

Lewises Pledge $1 Million
for Building Addition

rances and Sydney Lewts, 40, ’43L, of
Richmond have made another significant con-
tribution to Washington and Lee to support
the building that bears their name.

Their $1 million commitment will
help fund an addition to Lewis Hall,
the home of W&L’s School of Law.
When it is completed, the addition will
house the papers of U.S. Supreme Court
Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., °29, °31L.

Through the years, the Lewises
have been among Washington and Lee’s
most generous benefactors. In 1972,
they gave Washington and Lee $9 mil-
lion to support construction of a new
home for the law school and to create a
permanent endowment for its law center.
They have also established honor
scholarships at the University. Last
spring, Sydney Lewis served as chair-
man of his class’s 50th reunion commit-
tee, which raised more than $2 million
to help pay for scholarships and for the
renovation of “Old George.” Both he
and his wife have served as trustees of
the University.

“The Lewises’ generosity has had
a profound and lasting impact on the
quality of the law school,” says Randall
P. Bezanson, dean of the School of Law.
“It’s not possible to imagine what the
school would be like without their in-
fluence, and this most recent gift is a
marvelous reflection of their continuing
18 W&L

support and encouragement for
Washington and Lee.”

Lewis and Robert E.R. Huntley,
50, °57L, former president of Washing-
ton and Lee and current counsel to the
Richmond firm Hunton and Williams,
are leading an effort to raise more funds
for the law school addition. ‘The project
is expected to cost $3.5 million. ‘The
construction cost will be $2.8 million; the
archives will be supported by an

operational endowment of $700,000.

Construction on the addition began
last June, after Powell announced that he
would give his papers to Washington
and Lee. ‘The collection spans Powell’s
career on the Supreme Court and his
tenures as chairman of the Richmond
School Board and as president of the
American Bar Association.

‘The addition will contain a vault
for the papers and an office for a profes-
sional archivist, as well as seminar rooms
and offices for faculty members and
student legal clinics.

The collection of papers will not
actually come into Washington and Lee’s
possession until a biography of Powell
is complete. An archivist has, however,
joined the staff in anticipation of the
papers’ arrival.

John N. Jacob came to W&L from
Lexington’s George C. Marshall
Research Foundation. He began work
at Washington and Lee last summer.

 

 

 

 

Construction continues on the addition to the law school building, thanks largely to a contribution by Frances and
Sydney Lewis (opposite page), pictured at last May's reuntons.

 

In Recognition eye

epee Tee. Sydney Lewis
and theit children

Sp ecelay Crees

PM tetaays M. Lewis
Butler -

Spree Lewis
ent suppor’

magnific

ey

ton and

Pay a atk

Lee Ob asae

Washing

 

 

  
      

omen >
a
ie

-
.
é ¥
er
ee

 

 

The Generals’ Report

BY MIKE STACHUIRA, ‘86

 

n many ways the Wash-
ington and Lee winter sports
season was very much like
the winter weather in Lex-
ington. ‘Things were gener-
ally dark and cold, and the
little sunshine there was only
made the rest of the time

seem darker and colder.

Itreally couldn’t have been that bad,
but most of the season it was. The basket-
ball team, loaded with six seniors and four
starters back from a 1989 ODAC cham-
pionship team, coughed and sneezed its
way through the first losing season at
W&L since 1985. The men’s and
women’s swimming teams had their
troubles against a schedule loaded down
with Division I heavies. And the wres-
tling team had a season-long uphill climb
in which the mountain seemed to get
bigger each week.

No, it was not a good season to be a
W&L sports fan. But even the toughest
of critics could take pleasure in the rays of
sunshine provided by Ed Hart on the
basketball floor, Peer Soderberg on the
wrestling mat, and Doug Brownand Claire
Dudley in the swimming pool. And when
the W&L’s women’s swimming team
closed the year by dominating the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference and At-
lantic States Conference swimming
championships, it was almost like the
first taste of spring.

20 W&L

 

 

Senior Ed Hart moves toward the basket
in the Generals’ 68-67 loss to Hampden-
Sydney.

BASKETBALL

‘This was not the team to go 12-14.
The 1990-91 Generals were led by six
seniors who had not been on a team that
won fewer than 15 games in a season.
Their final campaign figured to be their
best. It wasn’t.

The shocking turnaround started
early when W&L failed to win either its
opening game or the consolation game in
its own Tip-Off Tournament. ‘That had
not happened since 1983, and not with
a team like this.

But when senior forward Ed Hart
scored an amazing 33 tolead the Generals
to an easy win in Game 3, and then when
W&L cruised to a smooth 10-point win
on the road over a strong Wesleyan team
in Game 4, all seemed back to normal. It
wasn’t.

W&L lost three of its last four before
breaking for Christmas, and the unex-
pected 3-5 start had 27th-year head coach
Verne Canfield scurrying back to the

drawing board. Preseason-like workouts
were held over the holidays, and the
Generals came out of the gate in 91 with
guns ablazing. ‘The Generals won a pair
of nailbiters to claim the W&L Invita-
tional tournament title, and then won
three of their next four games to position
themselves high in the ODAC in the
early stages of the season.

But just as it seemed the walls were
being restored to their upright position,
things came crashing down again. W&L,
which struggled with its shooting all sea-
son, lost its next four games in a row to
league rivals Emory and Henry,
Randolph-Macon, Hampden-Sydney,
and Lynchburg. Only once during the
stretch did W&L shoot better than 45
percent from the floor.

The Generals then did something
that made the bad times seem worse.
‘They won two in a row, including a stir-
ring upset of No. 9-ranked Emory and
Henry on the Wasps’ home floor.
Maybe—just maybe—W&L, which had
faded down the stretch in the last few
years, finally would be peaking at the
right time. It didn’t.

The weary Generals, making their
third multi-hour road trip in less than a
week, fell to unheralded Averett in over-
time. ‘wo days later, W&L was thor-
oughly dismantled by eventual ODAC
champion Randolph-Macon ina 32-point
loss at home, and then suffered just as
much damage ina 111-88 loss at Roanoke.
‘The Generals saved some face by closing
out the regular season with wins over
Eastern Mennonite and Guilford, but
the ultimate blow came in the final game.
W&L, the fourth seed in the ODAC
‘Tournament, played host to fifth-seeded
Virginia Wesleyan in the first round of
the league’s post-season event. The

continued on page 37

 

 

 

aa oe 4f: oe an as oa
- “
iain
a

wt"

©
o”

©

Y
~
a

Sw)

0g

8

S

&
+“

 

 

 

 

 

Robert Shaw

leads opening
performance in
Lenfest Center

‘The grand gatehouse
entrance wasn’t yet complete,
and there was still some land-
scaping work to do. But that
didn’t seem to bother the hun-
dreds of Washington and Lee
students and their parents,
faculty members, and towns-
people who flocked to the
new Lenfest Center for the
Performing Arts the weekend
of Robert E. Lee’s birthday.

‘Though it won’t actually
be dedicated until late May,
the Lenfest Center was open
to the public for the first time
the weekend of Jan. 19. Inter-
ested visitors took tours of the
$11.5 million facility, which
features a 450-seat auditorium
(and 77-foot wide stage), a
“black box” theatre, a spa-
cious lobby and box office,
and modern faculty offices.

But the highlight of the
weekend came Saturday
evening, when the Lenfest

Center heard its first per-
formance. ‘The University-
Rockbridge Orchestra and the
combined student choruses
gave a concert that featured
Beethoven’s “Egmont Over-
ture” and Poulenc’s “Gloria,”
among other pieces. ‘The
musicians were led by the
renowned conductor Robert
Shaw, the former music direc-
tor of the Atlanta Symphony
Orchestra and the stepfather
of Alex Hitz, ’91.

Performing under the
baton of Robert Shaw was a
once-in-a-lifetime experience,
the musicians said. “I was
expecting someone who
would be larger than life,”
said Roger Sullivan, ’92, one
of the soloists for the premier
performance. “But he was
very patient and personable.
Singing with him was definitely
one of the things I will remem-
ber most about my time at
Washington and Lee.”

‘The musicians were also
unanimous in their praise for
the new facility. “The Len-
fest Center is just marvelous,”
Sullivan said. “It’s so much
superior to what we have had

 

 

 

 

The Lenfest Center was almost ready for the opening performance (top photo),
which was led by Robert Shaw (lower photo).

before, it’s as though we’ve
gone from being paupers to
princes overnight.”

No one could have been
more enthusiastic about the
facility than Robert Shaw
himself. “The Lenfest Center
is an absolutely extraordinary
dual-purpose hall,” Shaw said
at the weekend’s conclusion.
“I do not know its equal in
the United States.”

In the weeks since the
inaugural performance,
numerous other choral and
instrumental groups have

 

ee
Boe:

°° PAGE 22/ THE

GAZE PER Ob

visited the Lenfest Center,
including the Netherlands
Wind Ensemble, the Scottish
Chamber Orchestra, violinist
Eliot Chapo, and performance
artist Faith Ringgold. ‘The
center also saw its first theat-
rical presentation when stu-
dents performed ‘Thornton
Wilder’s The Skin of Our Teeth
in February.

‘The Lenfest Center dedi-
cation ceremonies will occur
in May, to coincide with the
spring meeting of the Board
of ‘Trustees.

 

 

 

 

 

a

Shaw, Peppers inducted into ODK on Founders’ Day

‘Twenty-four Washington and Lee students and two honorary
initiates were inducted into Omicron Delta Kappa during the
annual Founders’ Day convocation Jan. 18.

ODK, the national honorary fraternity founded at W&L in
1914, recognizes superior leadership achievements in various
fields.

The two honorary initiates were Robert Shaw, music director
emeritus and conductor laureate of the Atlanta Symphony
Orchestra, and Larry C. Peppers, dean of W&L’s School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics.

In 1949 Shaw formed the Robert Shaw Chorale and
Orchestra, which became America’s premier touring choral group
during the next 17 years. He served as music director of the San
Diego Symphony Orchestra and as associate conductor of the
Cleveland Orchestra before becoming music director of the
Atlanta Symphony Orchestra in 1967.

Shaw has received 12 Grammy Awards, honorary degrees and
citations from 40 colleges and universities, the first Guggenheim
Fellowship ever awarded to a conductor, and the Gold Baton Award
of the American Symphony Orchestra League, the nation’s highest
honor for “distinguished service to music and the arts.”

He is also the stepfather of Alex Hitz, 91. During Shaw’s visit
to campus, he served as the guest conductor for the first perfor-
mance in the Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts. (See story
on page 22.)

Before coming to W&L in 1986, Peppers was chairman of
the department of economics and finance in the College of
Business Administration at Creighton University in Omaha,
Neb.

He received his bachelor’s degree in economics and
mathematics from Grinnell College and his doctorate in econo-
mics from Vanderbilt University. He taught briefly at Knox
College and Eastern Michigan University before joining Union
Pacific Railroad in 1973 as manager of economic forecasting.

He was appointed to the Creighton faculty in 1976 and became
chairman of the department in 1981. He was named ‘Teacher of
the Year at Creighton’s College of Business in 1978.

Peppers’ son, Todd, graduated from Washington and Lee in
June 1990.

The primary speaker during the Founders’ Day convocation
was W&L President John D. Wilson. Wilson reminded the
audience of students, faculty members, and townspeople that
the Washington and Lee community does “not freely choose to
have this ceremonial celebration,” for back in 1870 the Board of
‘Trustees decreed that Lee’s birthday should be observed
“annually, forever” as a way to honor the University’s founders.

The term “forever,” Wilson said, suggests immortality. And
yet, he added, “the earth and all of us on it are made of fragile,
mortal clay. Even our buildings have only a little time to shelter
us and to help us advance our purposes. Consider the institution
to which President George Washington gave $50,000 of James
River Canal Stock; the institution he hoped would promote
literature and encourage the arts in this rising empire.

“From a material perspective, what do we have? ‘I'wo gaunt
limestone walls, laced together by taut steel cables; a few foun-
dations yet to be excavated and set out properly so that we, and

visitors, can more fully visualize what the 18th-century college
looked like.

“In one sense, the material Liberty Hall Academy is all but
gone from the earth,” Wilson continued. “We have the walls of
one building; the names of the few, two centuries dead, who
studied and taught here; an inventory of academic supplies; a
roughed-out map of where things were before the fire.

“But in another, deeper sense, Liberty Hall is here still. We
know Washington’s gift is still at work in the University’s
permanent endowment; and his expressed wish for the promo-
tion of the arts and letters continues to echo through our minds
as we think of Marguerite and Gerry Lenfest and the others
who helped us build our new Lenfest Center.”

Many individuals have contributed to W&L’s history,
Wilson said, and not all of them were “historical giants” like
Lee and Washington. For instance, Jockey John Robinson was
an Irish orphan and foot soldier in the Continental Army who
bequeathed $50,000 to Washington College in 1826.

“Robinson’s name and his memory will live as long as
Washington and Lee lives,” Wilson said. “His name will echo
through the anguished cries, at 8 a.m., of freshmen going down
the Colonnade to pay penance to calculus in the hall bearing his
name. He will be remembered for his whiskey party on the lawn
when Washington Hall was completed, but also for his generous
support of an institution that attracted his philanthropy because
it could do for others coming along what had never been done for
him.”

Like Robinson, Judge John Barton Payne had no formal edu-
cation, but he had a lasting influence on W&L, too. “We know
John Barton Payne’s generosity because we enter the building
which bears his name when we study English language and
literature or when we have business with the dean of students,”
Wilson said. “Remember him today and tomorrow, too, and
recall that his gift is meant to provide for others the advantages
he was denied (but which he made up for) in his own life.”

Founders’ Day, Wilson continued, “is the day set aside for
the heirs to pay tribute to those who came before, for the gift of
this rare place. There are the conspicuous ones, to be sure:
Robert Alexander, William Graham, Washington, Lee, Jockey
John Robinson, Cyrus McCormick, Mr. and Mrs. Doremus, Mr.
Junkin, Mr. Ruffner, Dr. Gaines, Dean Tucker, Dean Leyburn,
and many others.

“Then there are the less well-known patrons: great teachers,
remembered chiefly by their students and their peers; anony-
mous donors; brilliant students who, in turn, became prominent
and productive citizens and loyal alumni; dedicated staff whose
signs of love are everywhere to be seen, in polished floors and
immaculately kept grounds and courtesy, always, everywhere.”

The president also reminded the students of their obligation
to their parents, who had supplied them with the means to
pursue an education.

He concluded, “Let us try for a moment or two, every day,
to give thanks to those whose gift of this place we enjoy. We can do
this in large and small ways. But the most significant and lasting
way is for all of us to commit ourselves to leave our part of Washing-
ton and Lee stronger than it was when we first came to it.”

 

| %

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 23 @ |

 

 

oa

 

 

Law school offers new media service

Washington and Lee law
students now have another
advantage over their peers at
other institutions—they can
attend class without being in
the classroom.

‘Through a unique service
being provided by the law
library’s media center,
students and teachers may
request that audio or video
tapes be made of their classes.

‘These tapes, placed
alongside the books and
periodicals on reserve in the
library, are then made
available for review and study
purposes. The videotapes
may be checked out or
viewed in the library, and the
circulation desk provides
personal cassette players so
students can listen to the
audio tapes in the library or at
home.

‘The audio recordings
offer superior quality to the
old method of bringing mini-
recorders to class. And
students who commute or
spend a great deal of time in
their cars have found the
tapes to be useful study tapes
for otherwise wasted time.

“As far as we know,
Washington and Lee is one of
only a few schools to offer this
option to its students,” says
‘Tom Williams, ’78, of the law
library’s media center. He and
Arthur Perry, another library
staff member, are in charge of
making the tapes. “It’s a real
cutting-edge development,”
Williams adds.

‘The procedure for
obtaining tapes is simple.
Students or teachers make a
written request to the media
center, giving a date and time
for the class to be recorded.
Williams and Perry then make
an audio or video tape from
the master controls in the
media center. Each classroom
in Lewis Hall is outfitted with
strategically placed cameras
and microphones.

‘Taping law classes is

nothing new, Williams says,
but it was only recently that
the system was consolidated.
‘The actual hook-up took
more than a year, but since it
was done in-house, it was
relatively inexpensive.

‘The presence of cameras
and microphones in the class-
room may have caused some
consternation at first, but
Williams and Perry say no one
seems to notice them now.

 

“We don’t tape classes if
the professor doesn’t want us
to,” Perry says. “Some will ask
that certain classes not be
recorded. Some prefer that
none of their classes be taped,
and some give us approval to
tape all their classes. It all
depends on the professor and
his or her personal beliefs and
teaching style. We make it as
convenient for the teachers to
use as possible.”

‘Tim Philipps, who
teaches tax law at W&L,
endorsed the use of tapes
from the beginning. “It all just
evolved over a period of time,
from something on an
experimental basis into the
system we have now,” he
says. “There was some
trepidation among the faculty

at first, mainly a fear that
these tapes would be used as
a substitute for class. It just
didn’t happen that way, and it
turned out that the most
diligent students were the
ones using this new resource.”
‘The taping does have its
drawbacks, Philipps admits:
“One’s moments of brilliance
as well as one’s thick-
headedness are now caught
and preserved for posterity!”

he says. Stull, he adds, “the
best thing about the tapes is
that good students can really
benefit from them.”

Initial reaction from both
students and faculty has been
favorable, say Williams and
Perry, and demand is
increasing steadily. ‘The
media center made 223 tapes
in October, or about 10 a day.
In November, the requests
grew to 15 a day, for a 50
percent increase.

Steve Dickinson, ’91L,
who works at the library’s
reference desk, observes that
students use the tapes in
different ways.

“For first-year students,
the tapes are useful because
of the difficulties encountered
in law school,” he explains.

 

 

eo

 

PAGE 24/ THE

GAZETHE @& |

  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
    

 

“It eases the mind to know if
you are called upon several
times in class and get behind
in your notes, there is a record
to fall back on. Second- and
third-year students, on the
other hand, have a lot of job
interviews that sometimes cut
into class time. Since missing
even one class in law school
can damage your grade, the
tapes are a good back-up.”

‘There simply are times
when one cannot get to class,
and that’s when the tapes are
most helpful. For example, a
student who missed school
because of surgery viewed the
tapes in the hospital. Simi-
larly, a professor who was
going to be absent for several
classes taped himself
delivering lectures.

 

 

 

 

 

° year. Their respective departments are
Academic departments planning ceremonies to honor them and
request alumni letters request letters of appreciation and congratula-

tion from their former students.

 

Tom Williams, ’78 (above), and
Arthur Perry (left) of the law
library’s media center prepare tapes

of law school classes. The tapes are
an “ideal tool” for students,
Williams says.

“Because this service is so
easy to use, it’s an ideal tool
for any law student,” Williams
believes. “And Washington
and Lee has always gone out
of its way to help its stu-
dents.”

Phillips agrees. “W&L is
one of the most student-
oriented institutions I have
been associated with.
Washington and Lee simply
sets out to do more for its
students than most other law
schools. ‘The implementation
of this network of video and
audio reference materials is
entirely consistent with a
student-first philosophy. |
know that my classes have
been improved because the
students have been helped in
their studies.”

“Access to these tapes
ranks high on the list of
advantages at the law school—
things like the honor code, the
library staying open 24 hours a
day,” Dickinson concludes.
“It’s simply one more buffer to

ease the rigors of law school.”

 

 

 

Washington and Lee’s School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics is seeking letters from
alumni concerning retiring faculty members.

Milton Colvin, professor of politics, and Jay
D. Cook Jr., ’43, professor of accounting, will be
retiring at the end of the 1990-91 academic

 

Lu)

a \

Letters concerning Colvin should be sent
to Professor Robert Strong in the politics depart-
ment, while those concerning Cook should be
sent to Professor Lyn Wheeler in the account-
ing department. ‘The address is Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, VA 24450.

 

Educator Joe Clark speaks to Washington and Lee audience as part of Black History Month. Clark was the subject of the

film Lean on Me.

Minority students observe special events

Washington and Lee’s
Minority Student Association
celebrated both Martin
Luther King Jr.’s birthday and
Black History Month with a
series of special events.

In January, the MSA
presented the second annual
Martin Luther King Jr. Lec-
ture on Justice and Non-
Violent Social Change. ‘The
speaker was Robert Michael
Franklin Jr., assistant professor
of ethics and society at Emory
University’s Candler School of
‘Theology, who discussed the
significance of King’s life and
his contributions to American
society.

Franklin’s address was
also sponsored by W&L’s
Howerton Fund and by Lex-

ington area campus ministries.

A few days later, members
of the University and Rock-
bridge communities gathered
at an area church for another
celebration of King’s life and
work. Several undergraduates
and law students spoke about
what King’s dream means to
them, and the University
Chorus presented a musical
selection.

‘To observe Black History
Month, the MSA and another
student organization, Contact,
sponsored a speech by edu-
cator Joe Clark. Clark made
headlines in 1982 by institut-
ing drastic reforms at Eastside
High School in New Jersey,
where he was the school
principal. He was later the

 

| @ THE

GAZETTE/ PAGE 2 @ |

subject of a Warner Brothers
film, Lean On Me, which
starred Morgan Freeman.

James Rambeau, ’91, of
Miami, president of the MSA,
was pleased with Washington
and Lee’s response to the
public events. “We believe it
is important for us to expose
the campus to the many
contributions of black
Americans,” Rambeau said.

“If America is indeed a
melting pot, then each
culture within it should have
a chance to show the country
the contributions it has
made. That is what we tried
to do with our speakers of
the past few months.”

 

 

 

 

Career office gives
help with hiring

needs

Washington and
Lee’s Office of Career
Development and Place-
ment is offering its assis-
tance to family and small
businesses in meeting
personnel needs.

“We are available to
assist businesses in the
process of hiring W&L
students and alumni,”
explains Rick Heatley,
director of the CD&P
Office and associate dean
of students. “We invite
any of those businesses
to contact us if they have
employment opportuni-
ties, summer jobs, or
spring-term internships.”

In addition, Heatley
reports that his office has
recently published
Adjuturi, a handbook for
participants in the
Alumni Career Assis-
tance Program. ‘The
book explains how
alumni chapters may
begin an ACAP program
and how volunteers assist
students and graduates in
the career planning
process.

‘To obtain a copy of
Adjuturi, or to learn more
about hiring W&L stu-
dents and graduates,
interested parties should
contact:

Dean Rick Heatley

Career Development and
Placement Office

Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

(703) 463-8595
FAX: (703) 463-8945

 

 

 

P ? ca
. rs eas |
rp . 4
4 i. eta > Pr
ee ak 3 ~
a ME et Telos 5 , 3
id
a

Ken Woodrow, Matt Blackston, and Vance Drawdy (seated, from left) work with professors Jim Phemister and David

 

Wirth to stop construction of a cogeneration plant in Buena Vista.

Law students participate in environmental project

‘Three Washington and Lee law students
have joined a community effort to prevent
construction of a cogeneration power plant in
Rockbridge County.

‘The students are participants in one of the
law school’s legal practice clinics, which allow
them to put their knowledge to use in real-life
situations. For years, W&L law students
involved in clinical programs have offered their
assistance to members of the broader commu-
nity, such as patients at Western State Hospital
in Staunton and inmates at the Alderson
Women’s Federal Prison in West Virginia.

But this latest project is the first involving
environmental law. It began several months
ago, when a local non-profit organization called
Clean Air for Rockbridge approached the law
school seeking legal assistance.

CLEAR is one of several local groups—
including the Rockbridge County Board of
Supervisors—which have announced their
opposition to the proposed cogeneration plant.
‘The organization is trying to keep the plant
from receiving needed permits from federal and
state authorities, and the W&L students are
helping by performing legal and factual
research, writing letters, drafting pleadings, and
preparing comments for submission to various
agencies.

‘The students, who are working up to 20
hours a week on the project, claim their
involvement has taught them important lessons
about a complicated area of the law. “This has
been an incredible learning experience,” says
one of the participants, Ken Woodrow, ’91L,

who hopes to practice environmental law after
his graduation. “The environmental laws are
very complex, and industrial expansion can
have enormous ramifications for the environ-
ment.

Woodrow and his fellow students—Matt
Blackston, '92L, and Vance Drawdy, ’89,
"92L—are “doing work comparable to the
duties they would be assigned as second- or
third-year associates in a law firm,” adds James
M. Phemister, a professor of law at W&L and
the project’s director.

Also advising the students is David A.
Wirth, who joined Washington and Lee’s
faculty last August. Wirth is an expert in
environmental law and has served as senior
attorney for the National Resource Defense
Council Inc. in Washington, D.C.

“This program serves as a kind of ‘law firm
within the law school,’ ” Wirth says. “The
students are basically providing legal services
for a client and, at the same time, gaining the
educational experience of working on an actual
pending lawsuit.”

Whatever the outcome of the lawsuits,
Phemister says, the program will have been a
valuable exercise. “The students are gaining
the experience of working on a ‘big litigation’
lawsuit—one which involves a lot of money (a
multimillion-dollar power plant)— and a lot of
exposure because of the opposition from
environmentalists.

“And they also have the opportunity of
living in the community where the results of
their legal work will actually have an impact.”

 

 

| ee

PAGE 26/ THE GAZETTE @

—

 

 

 

 

Students teach Spanish to area children

[It’s 7:45 on a Tuesday morning, and Mary Moreland, "91, is already hard at work. She is seated
in the library at Central Elementary School on the eastern edge of Lexington, surrounded by 15
lively, enthusiastic children.

These are Moreland’s students for half an hour each week. Her subject matter is Spain—its
culture, its geography, and, most of all, its language. It may seem an unlikely topic to teach young
children, but Moreland contends her students are the ideal age.

“It’s amazing what they can do when they are so young,” Moreland says. “They’re wonderful
children, and I’ve been impressed with how much they learn.”

Most of her pupils, who are in grades two through five, had never heard Spanish spoken until
Moreland began the weekly lessons several months ago. That’s when she and Andrew Roper, ’93,
answered a call to serve as volunteer language teachers in Rockbridge County. Roper teaches third-
and fourth-graders at Fairfield Elementary in the northern end of the county.

Their intent, Moreland and Roper say, is not to produce fluent speakers of the language.
Instead, they want to introduce youngsters to another tongue and to a different way of life.

“High school and college are not the prime times to learn a language,” Roper says. “If only there
were a national program to teach language to children, maybe they wouldn’t have such a fear of it
when they are older.”

The lessons are kept brief and light-hearted; vocabulary lessons are mixed with games and
laughter. “I don’t teach the children anything very complicated,” explains Roper, whom the students
know simply as “Andres.” “They learn numbers and the days of the week, and how to tell time.
But most importantly I try to show them that there is a world outside of Lexington, Va.”

Roper and Moreland were themselves first exposed to a foreign language when they were
children. Moreland learned to say a few Spanish words in kindergarten; Roper took a French course
during elementary school.

 

 

“You may never remember the
specific words and phrases you learn as
a kid,” Roper says. “But later in life
you may be able to say, ‘I’ve had that
before, and it wasn’t so tough.’ It takes
away some of the fear.”

Though both Roper and Moreland
have taken Spanish courses for years,
they became fluent in the language ae , =
after spending time abroad. Moreland |
lived for several months in Barcelona;
Roper has spent four summers in
Mexico and Latin America working
with a volunteer program called Amigos,
which promotes hygiene and dental
health in rural areas.

 

 

 

 

Moreland and Roper are only two
of the many Washington and Lee stu-
dents who work in area schools. During
the past year, more than 30 students
have served as tutors or as big brothers
and big sisters at Central School alone.

“We have been absolutely de-
lighted not only with the quality, but
also with the quantity of the students
involved,” says Alice Waddell, Central's
principal. “They’re very dependable
and supportive of the children. ‘They
have been a tremendous benefit to us.”

“I think it’s good for the
children to see somebody who is in
college,” Moreland says. “And it’s
nice for us to be able to put some-
thing back into the community.”

Mary Moreland (top photo) and Andrew Roper teach lessons in
Spanish language and culture to elementary school children in
Rockbridge County (photos by Claudia Schwab).

 

 

 

ae

© THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 27 ¢

 

 

 

Ruscio appointed
to new post

Kenneth P. Ruscio, *76,
assistant dean of students for
freshmen and residence life
and assistant professor of
politics at Washington and
Lee, has been appointed
associate dean of the School of
Commerce, Economics, and
Politics. He will assume his
new duties July 1.

‘The appointment was
announced by Larry C.
Peppers, dean of the Com-
merce School.

“Ken Ruscio brings an
impressive blend of adminis-
trative and academic expertise
to our faculty,” said Peppers.
“His duties will be split
evenly between teaching in
the politics department and
assisting with the activities of
the dean’s office. | know we
will all benefit from his full-
time involvement with the
Commerce School.”

In the newly formed
position, Ruscio will work
with the executive-in-
residence program, help
Commerce School majors
prepare for graduate study,
seek public policy internships
for students, and promote
other student support
activities. He will also teach in
the public policy program.

Ruscio received his
master’s and doctorate degrees
in public administration from
Syracuse University. He
joined the Washington and
Lee administration in 1987.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A forlorn student peers inside to see that Lloyd’s restaurant has closed. A new business has opened in its place—Har’s, a bistro serving breakfast, lunch, and dinner.

Lloyd’s of Lexington closes its doors

A venerable Lexington
landmark is no more.

Lloyd’s of Lexington, the
popular restaurant/laundro-
mat/video arcade that had
satisfied W&L students’ late-
night hunger for nearly a
decade, closed its doors in
November.

According to the Ring-tum
Phi, the establishment fell on
hard times in 1990 when its
owner, Lloyd Smith, became
ill, and his sister, Kathy
Creek, took over its manage-
ment. Creek claimed that
business declined when
construction at Red Square
moved student parties away
from West Washington Street,
where the restaurant was
located.

A few months later, the
building that had housed
Lloyd’s became home to a
new bistro called “Harbs’.”
‘The establishment serves
breakfast, lunch, and dinner
and features breads, sand-
wiches, salads, and espresso,
as well as beer and other
beverages. A pool table and
dartboard provide entertain-

ment for customers.

Lloyd’s opened in 1982
and quickly became a popular
student hangout, since it was
the only place within
Lexington city limits, aside
from a few convenience
stores, where food was served
24 hours a day. The menu
consisted of such fast-food
staples as hamburgers, hot
dogs, french fries, soft drinks,
and milkshakes. An extensive
collection of video games and
the later addition of laundry
machines were extra attrac-
tions. Lloyd’s was perhaps
most crowded at 2 or 3 ona
Sunday morning, after parties
had ended in Red Square.

Students enjoyed a “love-
hate relationship” with the
restaurant, said Jamie Berger
and Chris Komosa, both
members of the class of ’86.
Berger and Komosa served as
food critics for the Ring-tum
Phi during their senior year at
W&L and once described
Lloyd’s as “a required stop for
the late-night partygoer or
studymonger.”

“The W&L sophisticate,”

they continued, “will
denounce Lloyd’s in the
morning and blissfully gorge
there 12 hours later.”

Five years later, Berger
has kinder words to offer
about Lloyd’s. “I have great
memories of that place,” he
says. “I went there for the first
time as a freshman, the night
of Fancy Dress. My date was
starved, so we stopped at
Lloyd’s on our way to the ball.
We were all dressed up, and
we were the only people
there. ‘The employees didn’t
know what to think of us!
‘Three or four of them waited
on us. It was like being ina
real restaurant—almost.”

Lloyd’s opened during
Berger’s freshman year and,
he says, became “an instant
tradition in a place where
traditions usually take forever
to catch hold. It was like a
watering hole in Africa, where
all the different animals get
together. People who
generally didn’t mix at all
would stand in line together at
Lloyd’s and borrow money
from each other to play video

 

e

PAGE 28/ THE

GAZETTE a |

games.

“I met more people in
line at Lloyd’s than I did at
any fraternity party.”

Ross Singletary, ’89, was
also a regular patron of
Lloyd’s. “I spent so much
money there, I could have put
a couple of Lloyd’s kids
through college,” Singletary
recalls.

Why did W&L students
frequent Lloyd’s? “They
didn’t go for the food,” Berger
says. “It was more instinct. It
was [THE place to be at 3
a.m.”

Singletary agrees. “A few
times we decided to go to
some area truck stops instead
of Lloyd’s, and it just wasn’t
the same. ‘Those places didn't
have the same atmosphere.”

At one point, Singletary
recalls, the restaurant even
instituted charge accounts, so
students could send their food
bills home to their parents. “It
was an unusual place, and I
think it’s a real shame it has
closed. I just hate to see
Lloyd’s go.”

 

 

 

er,

Board of Trustees
hold regular winter
meeting

‘The members of Wash-
ington and Lee’s Board of
Trustees held their regular
winter meeting one weekend
in February.

They met with members
of the administration to discuss
the future of the University
and make plans for addressing
current needs. ‘They also set
tuition figures for the 1991-92
academic year. Undergradu-
ates will pay $11,575 next
year, while the cost for law
students will be $12,050.

During the weekend, the
trustees also had a chance to
observe developments on the
campus and to speak with
various members of the
community. They ate dinner
at the homes of faculty
members and visited
fraternity houses which are
being renovated under the
renaissance program. In
addition, they attended a
dress rehearsal of ‘Thornton
Wilder’s The Skin of Our Teeth,
the first student production
given in the Lenfest Center
for the Performing Arts.

At the conclusion of their
meeting, the trustees approved
a resolution supporting Wash-
ington and Lee’s alumni who
were serving in the Persian
Gulf as part of Operation De-
sert Storm. The text of that
resolution appears on page 16.

 

 

 

   

oo Pe oa’ Bea *
a is =

Tom Wolfe, ’51, a member of Washington and Lee’s Board of Trustees, signs a copy of his best-selling book Bonfire of the
Vanities during his February visit to the campus.

W&L toreceive funds from duPontinitiative

Washington and Lee is among 37 colleges in the $1.11 million over the next five years to the presidents
United States chosen to receive funds from the Jessie of the 37 eligible colleges. ‘The allocations may be
Ball duPont Small Liberal Arts College Initiative. used for any institutional purpose.

The Jessie Ball duPont Religious, Charitable, and The institutions that will benefit from the initia-
Educational Fund announced the initiative in late tive enroll no more than 2,900 students and gear their
October. As part of the program, the fund will award liberal arts academic programs to undergraduates.

 

 

 

 

 

[ # THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 29 % |

J

 

 

 

 

 

The old gymnasium now used as a field house at Wilson Field
was totally destroyed by fire ‘Thursday morning, February 19, at
1:30 o'clock. With the building was burned some athletic equip-
ment, although the largest part of the small amount of athletic
equipment in the building was gotten out. What caused the fire is
unknown.

The blaze from the frame structure lit the heavens for miles
around and by the time the firemen were able to reach the building,
the whole thing was in flames. There are no plugs near the field, but
had there been any chance of saving the building, itis probable that
water could have been pumped from Woods Creek.

‘The structure was built in 1912 and used temporarily as the
college gymnasium following the burning of the old gym and before
completion of Doremus gymnasium, which went into use in 1915.
For some years thereafter little use was made of it, but recently it
had been repaired and equipped with a new hardwood floor and was
used for dressing rooms for football, for boxing practice, and storing
old equipment. —March 1931

From a column titled “Campus Comment”

The efforts of TKI to secure an “iron lung” for the Lexington
hospital have become a reality. The order has been placed, and the
machine has arrived. ‘The campus takes its hat off to the biological
society for an enthusiastic project well executed.

A student body poll was taken to see if a majority of the men
in school would favor the abolition of corsages for dates at all dances
of the university. Not enough students wanted to abolish the
custom, but 70 per cent desired a change. What happened? A cut-
rate price war offset the anti-corsage petitions.

‘Tospice the Fancy Dress issue of the Southern Collegian, a special
set of female writings was included. Dedicated “to the ladies,” the
section contained articles and verses written by girls of neighboring
schools.

Since the days of Annie Jo White, Fancy Dress has been the highlight of Washington and
Lee's winter social calendar, as this vintage photograph shows.

 

 

 

 

“Set ’em up in the other alley” has become the cry of the
faculty recently, but in regard to bowling over students, thank
goodness. ‘The faculty bowling team is creating quite a name for
itself, and holds the record for local clubs. C. Harold Lauck set a
team record when he rolled 151. Other members of the team are
Larry Watkin, Foster Mohrhardt, Larkin Farinholt, Raymon John-
son, Cookie Cunningham and Cy Young. —February 1941

From President Gaines

‘The word now universally applied to colleges, notably to
colleges exclusively for men, [is] “crisis.” Everybody knows the
reason, though perhaps we feel it most acutely. If the defense of our
country requires a mobilized force of three or four million men, then
thatrequirement will be in partat the expense of college enrollment.
‘Tuition fees will drop, programs of instruction will shrink, educa-
tional aspiration in some measure will be suspended.

... Drastic economies must be effected if we don’t want to
bequeath to the future a crippling debt. We might have a student
body next year of 400 or we might have a student body of 800—but
that number will certainly fall far below our enrollment of the last
five years. A corresponding decrease in revenue must follow.

...But crisis is not new in Washington and Lee history. It was
crisis when William Graham collected the wreckage in the post
Revolutionary period; it was more than crisis when Robert Lee
gathered the shattered fragments of the late sixties. Our own
memories are fresh enough to recall that it was crisis during World
War II. We give our praise to God that each crisis was a challenge to
the loyalty of the faithful, and that the challenge was successfully
met.

I wish you could walk with me, though I might be in sombre
thought, over your ancient campus and watch the students of 1951.
I hold them in immeasurable admiration. I hope I can recognize
greatness at the age of 20 as well as at the age of 60. These are the

 

»

 

— +

@ PAGE30/THE GAZETTE @ L

 

 

j

 

 

 

 

 

children of the abnormal, the yet undisclosed destiny. But they
have done their little immemorial academic chores, hunting for the
square root of a bunch of confused x’s or chasing some venturesome
image of Shakespeare’s brain. With light denied them, at least in
phases of the splendor of hope, these young men have been faithful
in little things. May God make them rulers over great things.

It is this thought that commands me. ‘The country must be
saved, but it is the promise of such boys, their capacities and their
character, that make the country worth saving. ‘I’o serve such boys,
to sustain the long tradition of leadership furnished, is a laudatory
ambition for any college, and certainly for Washington and Lee.
God grant that we may find the friends who will help. —March 1951

Washington and Lee University’s Board of ‘Trustees has au-
thorized the university to proceed with plans to construct a new
science building intended for use in September, 1962.

The new structure will house the departments of physics and
biology, and will help relieve generally crowded conditions in
Howe Hall, the present science building accommodating the
chemistry, geology, and biology departments.

Howe Hall will undergo remodeling and will receive a new
wing of classrooms, laboratories, and an observatory as a part of the
current building project.

President Fred C. Cole said university architects will submit
plans to contractors for bids later this month, and work is expected
to get underway in early spring.

The project marks the culmination of a two-year University
Development Program which began in January, 1959, to raise
$2,000,000 for improving Washington and Lee’s facilities forscience,
journalism, and pre-engineering. —Winter 1961

Dr. William J. Watt has been named to become dean of the
College at Washington and Lee next July 1, succeeding Dr. William

 

 

 

 

Webb Pusey, III, who will return to full-time teaching after 11 years
as head of the University’s arts and sciences division.

Dr. Watt is currently associate dean of the College and profes-
sor of chemistry at Washington and Lee and serves as chairman of
the faculty’s Executive Committee.

Dr. Pusey had indicated to the Board of ‘Trustees last summer
his intention to retire from administrative duties by the end of the
current academic year, President Robert E.R. Huntley said in the
announcement. —February 1971

Imagine spending a night on Broadway without ever leaving
the Lexington city limits.

Impossible?

Nothing, it seems, is impossible when it comes to Washington
and Lee’s annual Fancy Dress Ball. As anyone who has ever
attended one of these gala bashes knows, the sights and sounds of
a Fancy Dress are unmatched.

.. There was a little something for everyone at this latest
edition of what was once considered (and most assuredly still is)
“the outstanding collegiate social event of the South,” in the words
of the New York 77mes.

This year’s theme, “On Broadway,” was carried out to the nth
degree, from the yellow brick road in 74e Wiz to the graffiti-filled red
brick walls of West Side Story.

Some of Broadway’s biggest hits became themes within the
theme. For instance, the main ballroom, Evans Hall, was magically
transformed into a scene straight out of Camelot. Okay, so maybe
Richard Harris didn’t make it. But there was a King and his Queen,
majestically portrayed by James W. Whitehead, secretary of the
University, and his wife, Celeste, who could hardly have looked
more regal. ‘here was even a Merlin, courtesy of biology professor
Randy Emmons, whose costume (complete with white rabbit) was
all the rage. —March 1981

 

 

Ia

© THE GAZETTE/PAGE31 @ |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Traveling to Alaska last summer as part of an Alumni College abroad are (front row, from left) Margaret Dean, Fulton Tompkins, ’37, Ruth-Ellen Tompkins, Betty
Spencer, Pat Nuckols, Nan Russell, Clair Norman, Bill Norman Jr., ’56, Kathrine Hauth, and Nadia Mead; (second row) Charles Dean, ’52, Carolyn Corbin, Bill
Corbin, ’50, Betty Chittum, Harold Chittum Jr., 47, Jack Akin, ’40, Marshall Nuckols Jr., 33, ’35L, Jim Russell Jr., 41, Charlton Gilbert, ’41, Ed Spencer, ’53,

and Charles Mead, ’44.

ALUMNI

NEWS

 

Chapter news

‘Throughout January and February, alumni gathered to
celebrate the birthdays of the University’s namesakes—George
Washington and Robert E. Lee.

Members of the W&L faculty and staff were on hand for
cele-brations in a number of cities. James D. Farrar Jr., ’74,
director of alumni programs, visited the Jacksonville, Chatta-
nooga, Middle ‘l'ennessee, and Greensboro chapters. President
John D. Wilson joined Farrar in Chattanooga and in Nashville,
where they presented the Middle ‘Tennessee chapter with the
Small Chapter of the Year Award.

In Greensboro, Dean of Students David L.. Howison joined
Farrar in presenting the Most Improved Chapter of the Year
Award.

Lamar J.R. Cecil, Kenan professor of history at W&L, visited
the Houston chapter for a Lee birthday celebration at the home
of Charles McCord, 63, a member of the Alumni Board. Robert
P. Fure, director of special programs, was the guest of the Dallas
chapter, while Lex McMillan, ’72, executive director of develop-
ment, joined members of the ‘Tidewater and West ‘Texas chapters.

Celebrating Lee’s birthday with the Palmetto chapter were
Robert W.H. Mish, °76, assistant alumni director, and Joel P.
Smith, ’90, alumni staff associate. ‘Timothy G. McMahon, °87,
director of the Annual Fund, and Anne B. Coulling, University
editor, visited the Keystone chapter. Frank A. Parsons, ’54,
director of capital planning, met with Winston-Salem alumni,
where members of the chapter celebrated at the home of John
Cocklereece, ’76, ’79L, a member of the Alumni Board.

Baltimore alumni observed Lee’s birthday by raffling off a
“Lexington Dream Weekend” package, which entitles the
winner to several expense-paid days in Rockbridge County. ‘The
Birmingham chapter also held an unusual event, as sculptor Branko
Medenica gave members a progress report on “Old George,”
which is currently being restored. ‘The special guest of the
Florida West Coast chapter was ‘Tony Pizzo, a Civil War historian.

Other chapters sponsoring events included New Orleans,
Charleston, W.Va., Mid-South, Atlanta, Tucson, San Diego,
Louisville, and Denver.

 

il Se

PAGE 32/ THE

°,
4

GAZETTE

 

 

Other chapter events

President Wilson, J.
Thomas ‘Touchton, *60, a
member of the Board of
‘Trustees, and Farris P. Hotch-
kiss, ’58, vice president for
University relations, were the
special guests of the Naples
chapter during an early Novem-
ber cocktail reception.

Bruce H. Herrick,
Hendon professor of econom-
ics, was the featured speaker
at a luncheon given by the
Baltimore chapter, while Dean
Howison met with alumni in
Charleston, S.C. John F.
DeVogt, professor of business
administration, and his wife,
Ann, joined alumni in San
Diego for a fall luncheon.

‘The New York, Lynch-
burg, and Northern Louisiana
chapters held special events to
celebrate the holiday season in
late November and December.

Young alumni held their
own gatherings in San Fran-
cisco, Chicago, and Richmond.
Members of the New Orleans
chapter spent an afternoon at
the historic Oak Alley Planta-
tion, while Pittsburgh alumni
gathered for cocktails at the
Carnegie Museum. ‘The
Connecticut River Valley
chapter supported the
Generals during their basket-
ball contest with Wesleyan
University. Alumni in Rich-
mond, Detroit, Cleveland,
and Louisville attended
gatherings with graduates of
other Virginia colleges.

Sarasota alumnisponsored
a cocktail reception, and the
F ort Lauderdale chapter held
a dinner meeting to elect new
officers. ‘The Houston chapter
gathered for a regular luncheon
meeting.

 

oe +

 

 

ALUMNI NEWS

 

 

 

 

JACKSONVILLE— Hosts for the Robert E. Lee birthday celebration were Brooke and Hap Stein, ’74, Lori Easterlin,
and chapter president James Easterlin, ’71.

 

 

 

 

 

 

JACKSONVILLE
Carrie Jennings, °90, and Jay Fant, ’90.

Young alumni attending the Robert E.. Lee birthday celebration are, from left, David Betzold, °90,

 

zz, GAZETTE/ PAGE 33 @ |

THE

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI NEWS

 

 

 

 

 

‘eee ( A
| ANS i

’
As
~ 7 XK

 

 

 

rf , * ms : *
Pe pe ( : 4 .%
MIDDLE TENNESSE E—On hand to see their chapter win the Small Chapter of the Year award are, top photo, from left, Tom Hayes, 90, John Moody, ’86,
Cecilia Nave, '90L, and Dave Nave, ’86, ’89L; and below, from left, President John D. Wilson, Alyson Ross, and Bennett Ross, ’83, chairman of the chapter’s

Alumni Admissions Program.

a ay , . am
é

 

[ PAGE34/THE GAZETTE @¢ |

 

ADU NAY N/R OW

 

1 ati ti tae ie

 

 

 

om

oe ns
al

ee ns

Cee

Oe ceeded ad .
ce eee
he ves

<-
A ae

 

eee ee Ae ee ee

 

 

 

 

 

Clockwise from top: MIDDLE TENNESSE E—President Wilson (far right) recognizes chapter leaders George Stadler, ’81, Clay Jackson, ’76, Lee Hollis, 86, and
Jimmy Gallivan,’51; GREENSBORO—chapter president Jed Dunn, ’82, Bill Latture,'49, and Ed Morns, '26, gather to see the chapter recetve its most improved
award: TUCSON—Wally Clayton, '44, and Ben Anderson, ’38, attend a Lee birthday celebration; SAN DIEGO—Jet Taylor, '84, presents special recognition to
John Klinedinst,’71,°78L, chairman of the chapter's scholarship committee, and to his wife, Cindy.

 

 

¢,

© THE GAZETTE/ PAGE3 @ |

EE

 

 

 

ALUMNI NEWS

 

CHARLESTON, W.VA.—Celebrating Lee’s birthday are, from left, chapter secretary Kevin Struthers, ’89,
hosts Stuart Smith and lke Smith, 57, °60L, chapter vice president B. Judd Hartman, ’85, Keri Allison
Hartman, Tert Rugeley, chapter president Ned Rugeley, ’83, ’86L,, Susan MacDonald, and chapter

treasurer Frank MacDonald. ’80.

 

CHARLESTON, W.VA.—Betty Belden and Ned
Rugeley, ’83, ’86L, gather for the Lee birthday
celebration.

 

 

 

 

Mann

 

Klinedinst

Nominating Committee Appointed

Each year a three-member
nominating committee is em-
paneled to fill vacant seats on
the Alumni Board of Directors
and to elect an alumni repre-
sentative to the University
Committee on Intercollegiate
Athletics.

Under Article 9 of the
By-Laws of the Washington
and Lee Alumni Inc., the
names and addresses of the
members of the Nominating
Committee must be published.
‘The By-Laws stipulate that
any members of the Alumni
Association may submit names
of alumni to the Nominating
Committee for nomination to
the offices to be filled.

‘The Nominating Com-
mittee is now receiving the
names of candidates to fill five
seats on the Alumni Board of
Directors and the vacancy on
the University Committee on
Intercollegiate Athletics.

 

 

 

 

 

Cory

Alumni may send names
directly to any members of
the committee or to the
committee through the office
of the Executive Secretary of
the Alumni Association at the
University.

‘The committee will close
its report on April 12, 1991,
and present its nomination to
the annual meeting of the
Alumni Association on May
11, 1991.

 

Robert H. Mann Jr., 55, °57I
‘Traders Insurance Co.

Kansas City, MO 64112
(816) 932-9400

 

One Ward Parkway, Suite 247

Members of this year’s committee and their addresses are listed below.

John D. Klinedinst, ’71, °78L
Klinedinst & Fliehman
Columbia Court, Suite 300
444 West “C” Street

San Diego, CA 92101

(619) 239-8131

E. Neal Cory II, ’77

J.J.B. Hilliard, W.L. Lyons Inc.
120 Hilliard Lyons Center
Louisville, KY 40202

(800) 444-1854

 

 

 

@& PAGE 36/ THE

GAZETTE @®

 

 

(Continued from page 20)

\{arlins, smarting from a 30-point shel-
lacking the Generals handed them in an
earlier meeting, took the lead in the first
few minutes of the game and never looked
back, dispatching the senior-laden Gen-
erals with a group of freshmen and sopho-
mores. Fittingly, W&L, which shot just
43 percent from the floor for the season,
closed the season with a 38-percent
shooting night.

It was a curious end for the most
prolific class in W&L basketball history.
Seniors Jim Casey, Pat Gallavan, Ed Hart,
Craig Hatfield, Mike Holton, and Chris
Jacobs accounted for nearly 6,000 career
points; and Hart, Holton, and Jacobs went
over 1,000 points for their careers. Jacobs
finished as W&L’s seventh all-time lead-
ing scorer with 1,523 career points. Hart,
a model of consistency throughout his
four years at W&L, led the Generals in
scoring and was named second team all-
conference for the second time in his

Career.

SWIMMING

Neither the men’s nor the women’s
swimming teams managed a winning
scason—a fact attributed as much to a
schedule that included five Division I
programs as to anything else. But despite
the losing records, all was not lost in the
pool this winter for Washington and Lee’s
swimmers. The women were the cream
of the crop in the ODAC,
blitzing through the league

 

 

 

 

 

 

we PY

 

Claire Dudley is congratulated by Coach
Page Remillard after qualifying for the
NCAA Division Ill championships.

mores Claire Dudley and Stephanie
Sauers led the women’s surge as Dudley
was named swimmer of the meet at the
championship event and Sauers was des-
ignated swimmer of the year in the con-
ference. Dudley, a 1990 honorable men-
tion All-American, qualified for nationals
for the second year in a row in the 200-
yard breaststroke when she made the
national cut time in mid-season. Sauers
fell just short of the national qualifying
standard in a number of events.

W&L also got outstanding perfor-
mances in the championship meet from

junior Jodi Herring, who won three indi-
vidual events, and from senior Sharon
Coleman, who won two events.

On the men’s side, W&L recorded
just one dual-meet victory all season long,
but the season showed constant improve-
ment, nonetheless. Junior distance swim-
mer Doug Brown culminated his year of
hard work by being named Atlantic States
swimmer of the meet for his first-place
finishes in the 500- and 1,650-yard
freestyle events. Brown also qualified for
the Division III national championships
in the 1,650-yard freestyle with his per-
formance at the Atlantic States cham-
pionship meet.

WRESTLING

‘The hard luck of Peer Soderberg’s
wrestling season typified that of his team.
‘Three weeks in a row Soderberg reached
the finals ofa tournamentonly tocome up
short in that final match.

Soderberg was the only General to
post a winning season on the mat, but just
as itappeared those positive results might
have him poised fora successful run atthe
Eastern Regionals, he suffered a season-
ending knee injury in his final regular-
season match.

The Generals could, however, lay
proud claim to a dual-match win over
national champions. Foofba// national
champions, that is. W&L defeated Geor-
gia lech onthe wrestling mat to record its

only win of the season.
In addition to Soder-

 

championships for the
fourth year in a row, while
III national
championships qualifier
doug Brown highlighted a
group of constantly im-
proving men’s swimmers.

Division

‘The women cruised
through their ODAC
regular season with wins
over Sweet Briar and
Hollins. Those two meets
extended W&L’s four-
year winning streak in
ODAC dual meets to 10
Straight, dating back to

 

 

berg, W&L had a bright
spot in junior cocaptain
Larry Pilkey. The 126-
’ pounder finished with an
11-11 record, reached the
finals at the W&L Invita-
tional, and finished third at
the Virginia Division II-III
championships. Senior Bill
Avery also capped off his
career by finishing third at
158 pounds at the state
championships. And 190-
pounder John Conkling
had a third-place finish at
the Division II-III meet,

 

 

December 1987. Sopho-

Sophomore Rich Paini wrestles at 118 pounds for the Generals.

as well.

WEL 37

INDOOR TRACK & FIELD

W&L’s burgeoning women’s track
team showed it was the premier program
in the ODAC by claiming its second
straight unofficial ODAC title. While the
conference has not yet designated
women’s track as a sport, the spirit of the
W&L women remains undaunted. W&L
outscored its nearest rival by almost 100
points in the championship as freshman
sprinter Wendy Neel and shot putter
Kelli Klick set new school records.

The W&L men were not so fortu-
nate, however. Running into injuries and
perhaps the best Lynchburg track team
ever, the Generals finished a distant sec-
ond in the indoor championships. ‘The
bright spots for W&L came from senior
cocaptain David Johnston and junior shot
putter Jim Henry, both of whom won
their events.

 

Basketball (12-14)

Bethany 93, W&L 90
Moravian 86, W&L 83
W&L 84, Marymount 71
W&L 74, Wesleyan 64
Hampden-Sydney 68, W&L 67
Lynchburg 69, W&L 67
Emory 93, W&L 78
Wa&L 69, Bridgewater 62
W&L 76, Swarthmore 75
Wa&L 94, Hartwick 92
Bridgewater 71, W&L 69
W&L 93, Roanoke 80
W&L 94, Va. Wesleyan 81
Wa&L 83, Eastern Mennonite 63
Emory & Henry 94, W&L 88
Randolph-Macon 85, W&L 67
| Hampden-Sydney 89, W&L 72
' _ Lynchburg 95, W&L 80
| W&L 88, Emory & Henry 77

38 = W&L

  

 

W&L Installs Sports H-O-T-L-I-N-E

Ever have trouble tracking down a Washington and Lee
sports score? Well, you needn’t worry anymore. The W&L sports
information department has installed a sports hotline to provide
you with up-to-date scores and information about all of W&Ls
21 athletic teams.

The hotline will be updated on a daily basis and will
include a rundown of all current teams’ records and results.
Callers can stay on the line for more detailed information if they
so desire. The hotline has been provided through a gift from Jack
Baizley, ’70, who owns and operates University Sportwear, a new
sports apparel store in downtown Lexington.

The number for the hotline is (703) 463-8998. ‘The
recorded message is available 24 hours a day.

Men’s Swimming (1-5)
Charleston (S.C) 96, W&L 69
UNC-Charlotte 125, W&L 76
Georgetown 119, W&L 93

George Washington 104, W&L 76
Mary Washington 113, W&L 90

W&L 124, Radford 61
2nd at Atlantic States Championships

   

   

BOAR D

W&L 81, Va. Wesleyan 51
Averett 86, W&L 83 (OT)
Randolph-Macon 90, W&L 58
Roanoke 111, W&L 88

W&L 96, Eastern Mennonite 72
Wa&L 83, Guilford 80 (OT)

*Va. Wesleyan 82, W&L 71

"ODAC Tournament

Women’s Swimming (3-5)
W&L 142, Sweet Briar 117
Charleston (S.C.) 92, W&L 84
UNC-Charlotte 96, W&L 75
Georgetown 119, W&L 84

George Washington 105, W&L 85
W&L 116, Hollins 89

Mary Washington 118, W&L 86
W&L 114, Radford 90

1st at ODAC Championships

1st at Atlantic States Championships

Wrestling (1-2)

at Lebanon Valley Invit. (17th of 18)
Furman 40, W&L 6

Davidson 26, W&L 11

W&L 33, Georgia Tech 19

7th of 9 at York Invitational

6th of 7 at W&L Invitational

9th of 10 at Mid-South Tournament

6th of 6 at Va. Div. Il-Ill Championships

 

CLASS NOTES

Za 7 A historical essay by J. PRESTON

MOORE was published this year
by Louisiana State University Press in a volume
of The Louisiana Governors. Moore and his wife,

Ann, live in a retirement home in Staunton, Va.
JOHN B. ECKER lives in Po-

28
tomac, Md., where he stays busy

with his seven grandchildren. One of his grand-
children, John McManus, is a senior at W&L.
9 2 9 WILLIAM W. PACE is retired and

lives in Roanoke, Va., where he

does volunteer work for the area public library.

ROBERT W. PHARR and his wife live in Ger-
mantown, Tenn., during the summer months
and St. Petersburg, Fla., in the winter.

IRWIN T. SANDERS continues to edit a series
of volumes titled Social Movements: Past and Pres-
ent for Twayne Publishing Co. ‘Twelve volumes
have been published, and four are currently
being printed. Sanders is professor emeritus of
sociology at Boston University. He lives in

Wellesley, Mass.
9 3 1 JUDGE WALTER E. HOFF-
MAN is in his 37th year as a United

States district judge in Norfolk, Va.
JOE A. McVAY has retired after 50

Joe
years of law practice in Huntington,

W.Va. He lives in Myrtle Beach, S.C.
’ 3 4 ROBERT D. BAILEY is in his
57th year of practicing law. He lives

in Pineville, W.Va.
DR. GEORGE W. PEDIGO JR., emeritus

clinical professor of medicine at the University
of Louisville, has been awarded a mastership
in the American College of Physicians. Master-
ships are given to fellows in the college who
have made distinguished contributions to the
field of medicine because of personal character,
positions of honor and influence, and eminence
in practice or medical research. Pedigo lives
in Louisville.

DANIEL B. STARTSMAN is retired and lives
in Terrace Park, Ohio. He and his wife,
Kathryn, are active in their church choir. Start-
sman also has 31 years of perfect attendance
in the Cincinnati Rotary Club.

ae

9 3 5 GEORGE E. CRISP has retired

from the board of directors of Fred
J. Crisp Inc. after 42 years of service. He lives
in Akron, Ohio.

JAMES M. FRANKLIN recently took first
place in a Florida Senior Olympics swimming
competition. He and his wife, who celebrated
their 50th wedding anniversary last June, live

in Palm Harbor, Fla.
9 3 6 ALBERT J. DURANTE recently

completed his 15th year with the
A. Smith Bowman Distillery in Fredericks-
burg, Va.

Avid tennis fan EDWARD A. TURVILLE
recently attended the French Open in Paris, the
U.S. Open Championships in New York, and
the semifinals of Davis Cup competition in
Austria. He lives in St. Petersburg, Fla.

PARKE S. ROUSE JR. has writ-
ten a new book titled 7he James,
Where a Nation Began. He lives in Williams-
burg, Va.

38
9 39 WARREN H. EDWARDS te-
tired—again—from the Florida

Judicial System last December. He was a senior
judge and had spent some 17 years on the
bench. He lives in Bonifay, Fla.

DR. CHESTER SCHEPT is re-
tired and living in Flushing, N.Y.

JAMES W. FISHEL helps publish Youth Con-
nections Magazine, a monthly publication dis-
tributed to 200,000 minority high school
students. He retired from the advertising
business after selling his agency to Saatchi &
Saatchi. Fishel lives in New York City.

FRED G. FRANCIS was recently honored by
the Kentucky Bar Association on the 50th an-
niversary of his law practice. He was designated
a senior counselor at the bar’s 1990 meeting.
He lives in Sarasota, Fla.

41

ARTHUR C. SMITH JR. lives in Washington,
D.C. He spends much of his time traveling,
playing golf, and performing volunteer work.

May 9-11

’ 4 2 W. MARSHALL JOHNSON,

retired Associated Press sports
editor, has been inducted into the Virginia High
School Sports Hall of Fame. Johnson joined the
AP in 1949 and went on to establish himself
as the “dean” of high school sports writers in

Virginia. He lives in Richmond.

9 4 3 ROBERT F. MacCACHRAN is
employed by the international sales

manager for Avery Dennison Corp. in Fra-

mingham, Mass. He and his wife, Sue, have

three children and live in Sudbury, Mass.

DOUGLAS W. McCAMMISH and his wife,
Betty Sue, recently returned from Dangriga,
Belize, where McCammish served as a volun-
teer with the International Executive Service
Corps. McCammish, who is retired, was
recruited by IESC to assist Spaceline, a wood
furniture builder and upholsterer. He and his

wife live in Winchester, Ky.

9 4 4 G. EDWARD HEINECKE is
president of the board of directors

of Second Harvesters of Wisconsin Food Bank

in Milwaukee. He is also serving his second

term as chairman of the advisory board of Salva-

tion Army in Wisconsin.

W. R. (MAC) MALLOY still performs daily

maintenance for eight soft tennis courts at Long

Cove Club on Hilton Head Island, S.C.

9 4 5 Virginia state Sen. ELLIOT S.
SCHEWEL was recognized last fall

by Gov. Douglas Wilder for his work in organiz-

ing The Virginia Economic Development

Corp., a $33 million fund for mezzanine financ-
ing for small businesses in rural Virginia.

Schewel lives in Lynchburg.

9 4 7 DR. WILLIAM H. PIFER has
retired from his ear, nose, and

throat medical practice. He now works part time

with his son, Richard Pifer, ’72, in a real estate

financing firm. Pifer lives in Winchester, Va.

After almost 16 years in the post, DR. JAMES
H. SAMMONS retired last year as executive
vice president and chief executive officer of the
American Medical Association. He has started
Sammons Associates, a health-policy develop-
ment consulting firm. He lives in Chicago.

W&L 39

 

  

Scheifly (left) and Graeme Currie, '84L, pose with their
W€&L graduation canes. Currie is also with the firm of
Morgan, Lewis, and Bockius.

9 4 Ne JOHN E. SCHEIFLY retired last

September from the international
law firm of Morgan, Lewis, and Bockius. He
has practiced law in Los Angeles since 1953 and

has been active with the tax bar. Scheifly and
his wife, Patricia, live in Whittier, Calif.

"49

last April.

RICHARD S. COOLEY and his

wife, Nancy, moved to Lexington

PERRY E. MANN JR. was elected to the West
Virginia House of Delegates last November. He
continues to practice law in Hinton, W. Va.

SPENCER W. MORTEN has retired as chair-
man and chief executive officer of Bassett Mir-
ror Co. after 40 years of service. Morten plans
to spend his summers in Virginia and his winters

in Florida.

9 5 () R. DABNEY CHAPMAN teaches
Russian and German at Shepherd

College in Shepherdstown, W.Va. In 1986,

he retired from the U.S. Information Agency

Foreign Service.

DR. DONALD D. HOOK has published a
new book called The Plight of the Church Trad:-
tionalist: A Last Apology, which is about turmoil
in the Episcopal Church. The book was released
in January and published by The Prayer Book
Society in Louisville, Ky. Hook lives in Far-
mington, Conn.

S1

MARCUS A. COOK III retired from the
Citizens & Southern Corp. in late 1989 after
35 years of service. He lives in Atlanta, where
he serves on several Christian and civic boards.

May 9-11

THE HON. PIKE HALL JR. was elected,
without opposition, as.a justice of the Louisiana
Supreme Court. He took office last August,
after serving for 19 years as judge of the Loui-
siana Court of Appeal, Second Circuit. He lives
in Shreveport.

40 W&L

WILLIAM G. WHITE has retired from South-
western Bell Telephone Co. after 42 years of
service. He is now involved with civic and
church work in Norman, Okla.

‘oe

water, Fla.

JOHN B. BROMELL retired last
September and now lives in Clear-

ERNEST H. CLARKE is retired and living in
New Bern, on North Carolina’s eastern shore.

JOSEPH T. MACKEY has retired from Trans
World Airlines as a captain and from the U.S.

Navy Reserve as a commander. He lives in Bay
St. Louis, Miss.

DR. ROBERT A. MASLANSKY is the medi-
cal director of the addiction rehabilitation ser-
vices division of New York University’s Bellevue
Medical Center. He lives in New York City.

KENT RIGG has retired to New Smyrna

Beach, Fla.

9 5 3 THOMAS B. PERKINS and his
wife, Carolyn, have both retired

and sold their home in Burlington, Conn. They

spend their time traveling in the West and par-

ticularly in Idaho, where three of their four

daughters live.

J. TAYLOR WILLIAMS has retired as judge
in Virginia’s 10th Judicial District, but he con-
tinues to substitute in various district courts
throughout Virginia. He lives in Farmville.
9 5 4 ROY C. HERRENKOHL JR.,
director of the Center for Social
Research at Pennsylvania’s Lehigh University,
has been named vice provost for research and
dean of graduate studies at the university. He
specializes in research on family dynamics and

child-rearing practices. Herrenkohl lives in
Bethlehem with his wife, Ellen.

ARTHUR H. WILLIAMS JR. has moved to
Buckingham, Va., to become the pastor of two

Presbyterian churches.
9 oy 5 WALK C. JONES III is an ar-
chitect in Memphis, Tenn. His

son, Will, is a junior at Washington and Lee.

KENT RIGG (See °52).

36

For the past two years, JOHN L. HARE JR.
has worked as a consulting engineer in Shang-
hai, China, where he is helping Hoechst
Celanese and China National Tobacco Co.
design and build a cigarette filter plant.

May 9-11

9 = 7 LAWRENCE A. ATLER is af-

filiated as “of counsel” to the law
firm Berryhill, Cage, and North in Denver. He
works in the areas of real estate acquisition,
development and disposition, and mergers and
acquisitions of business entities. He also serves
as national chairman of development for the
Anti-Defamation League. In addition to his
other activities, Atler is the owner of a company
that is designing, implementing, and supervis-
ing the installation of surface telecommunica-
tions systems throughout the Pacific Rim
and America.

‘THOMAS V. LITZENBURG has resigned as
president of Salem Academy and College. He
is NOW visiting resident scholar at the National
Institute for the Humanities at North Carolina’s
Research Triangle Park.

9 os & ERNEST H. CLARKE (Sce’52).

PAGE D. CRANFORD has been elected
senior executive vice president and general
counsel of C&S/Sovran Corp., the nation’s
12th-largest bank holding company. He lives
in Richmond.

WILLIAM C. MILLER is a director of Boeh-
ringer Mannheim U.S. Holdings Inc. He lives
in Carmel, Ind.

SAMUEL E. MONROE II is president and
chief operating officer of the B.T. Crump Co.
in Richmond. Monroe was in the banking in-
dustry for 30 years prior to his association with
Crump, which began in September. He and his

wife, Dianne, have three children.
9 59 DR. ARTHUR S. GROVE JR. is

president of the American Society
of Ophthalmic Plastic and Reconstructive Sur-
gery for 1991. He lives in Cambridge, Mass.

EVAN J. KEMP JR., chairman of the U.S.
Equal Opportunity Employment Commission,
received an honorary degree of doctor of laws
from Nova University last May. Kemp was the
commencement speaker at the university's law
school graduation.

LT. COL. PAUL G. KNOX has retired from
the U.S. Army and now teaches science in New
York City’s public schools. He lives in Brooklyn.

Virginia Gov. Douglas Wilder has appointed
ROBERT E. SHEPHERD JR. one of two
citizen members of the new Virginia Youth Ser-
vices Commission. Shepherd, who lives in Rich-
mond, also serves as chairman of the Virginia
Bar Association’s Commission on the Needs
of Children.

9 6 () PHILIP G. GROSE JR. has been

elected chairman of the board of
visitors of Columbia College, a four-year liberal
arts college for women in Columbia, S.C.

WILLIAM G. LOEFFLER JR. has been pro-
moted to chairman of Loeffler Ketchum Mount-
joy, Charlotte’s largest advertising agency. In
his new position, Loeffler will continue to super-
vise the areas of accounting and public relations.

61

WILLIAM C. MILLER (See ’58).

May 9-11

DR. WILLIAM N. OFFUTT IV has been re-
elected vice chairman of the council of the
American Academy of Ophthalmology. He has
also been reelected to the academy’s board of
directors. He is director of the oculoplastic ser-
vice and clinical professor of ophthalmology at
the University of Kentucky College of Medicine.
He has a private practice in Lexington, Ky.

DR. ROBERT W. REHMET is an anes-
thesiologist at Baylor Medical Center in Dallas.

ROBERT E. SHEPHERD JR. (See ’59).

9 6 2 JOHN W. BOYLE JR. has moved

to Atlanta, where he is executive
vice president of C&S/Sovran Corp. He is
responsible for national accounts and cash
management divisions for the consolidated
company.

PAUL B. CLEMENCEAU is a partner in the
Houston office of Mayer, Brown, and Platt, a
Chicago-based law firm.

ALAN M. CORWIN lives in Olympia, Wash.,
where he serves as chairman of the Thurston
County Planning Commission and is active in
local politics.

G. T. DUNLOP ECKER has resigned as presi-
dent and chief executive officer of the Wash-
ington Hospital Center to pursue other interests
in the health-care field. He lives in Bethes-
da, Md.

PERRY E. MANN JR. (See ’49).

G. ANDREW NEA JR. is associated with the
Richmond law firm Williams, Mullen, Christian,
and Dobbins. He is also general counsel for the
Virginia Association of Community Banks. The
Richmond News Leader recently published an
article by Nea about the rights and financial
privileges of military personnel affected by
Operation Desert Storm.

 

 

 

John Snedden, right, with grillman Danny Johnson (photo by Vince Ricardel)

John Snedden, ’81, and the Secret Sauce

John Snedden, ‘81, knows barbecue. He can tell you the best way to dress
and grill a rack of ribs, the best method for stoking a fire so the food cooks
evenly, and even a great coleslaw recipe. But the one secret he won’t divulge
is how he makes his barbecue sauce.

Snedden, a native Philadelphian, has been into barbecue in one form or
another since high school. In 1989, he started up his own grilling-based cater-
ing company in Washington, D.C.—Rocklands Inc. And this past winter, he
realized a longtime ambition by opening his own take-out restaurant on
Wisconsin Avenue. The restaurant also bears the name Rocklands—in honor
of the old Rockbridge County farmhouse where Snedden lived as a
Washington and Lee student.

It was during his W&L days that Snedden began to hone his cooking skills,
first as the food manager for his fraternity, Phi Delta Theta, and then by spon-
soring fraternity pig roasts at Rocklands. “‘I grilled pretty much year round
out there, whether for myself or for big parties,” he recalls. ‘I got my first
taste of large-event catering at Rocklands. It was at this time, too, that | began
to play around with barbecue sauce recipes, at first just doctoring up store-
bought recipes and eventually arriving at my own original recipe.”

After finishing at W&L Snedden entered graduate school at the University
of Pennsylvania. He began to enter various barbecue cookoffs and contests
and finally won a prize for “best ribs’’ at an Alexandria, Va., cookoff in 1983.
That’s when he first suspected he might be on to something. He began cater-
ing special events, such as company cookouts and Christmas parties, about
four times a year, while still holding down a full-time job. But about three
years ago his workload increased, and in the spring of 1989 he became a
full-time caterer.

The Washington catering market is highly competitive, but Rocklands has
a unique drawing card—custom-made, portable barbecue pits made out of
big storage drums. ‘‘Whenever possible, the grilling is done on site,’’ Sned-
den says. “I think it adds an element of authenticity to a function, whether
it is a wedding reception or any other type of outdoor party. There is something
the guests can go up to where they can see and smell the food being cooked
right on the spot. This gives even the most formal and structured of events
the feel of a real honest-to-goodness barbecue.”

As for the secret barbecue sauce, Snedden will say only, “‘It’s a cross bet-
ween Florida and North Carolina with a few states in between.”

—by William Cocke

 

W&L 41

 

CLARK D. VALENTINER is in the John
Deere tractor business. He and his wife, Sally,
and their sons, David, 16, and Stewart, 9, live

in Elizabethtown, N.C.
DR. STEPHEN E. GUILD has

"63
written two books about window-

based word processors. He lives in Seattle.

WARREN B. HUGHES JR. has started Rep-
Finders USA to help manufacturers locate and
attract the best independent manufacturers’
sales representative agencies. He also owns
Hughes Marketing Communications, which
specializes in consumer research and focus
groups. Hughes lives in Media, Pa.

G. JEFF MENNEN has formed the G. J. Men-
nen Group, a family-business consulting firm,
in Basking Ridge, N.J.

G. DAN REED JR. is in charge of the in-plant
print shop at McCormick & Co. in Baltimore.

He lives in Timonium, Md.

6 4 BRITAIN H. BRYANT, an at-
torney in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin

Islands, recently attended the Moscow Con-

ference on Law and Economic Cooperation at

the Kremlin Palace. Bryant and his wife, Kay,

were invited by the Soviet minister of justice.

WILLIAM H. MARMION JR. is in his sixth
year of teaching history and coaching football
and basketball at St. Mark’s School of Texas
in Dallas. Last fall he was named chairman of
the school’s history department. Marmion and
his wife, Nancy, live in Dallas.

ROBERT A. PADDOCK works for Argonne
National Laboratory, where he is helping to
develop an automated mission planning system
for the U.S. Special Operations Forces. He lives
in Naperville, Ill.

DR. PETER S. TRAGER has been appointed
to a three-year term on the board of directors
of the Georgia Dental Education Foundation,
an organization which provides scholarships to
students seeking careers in dentistry and which
supervises a donated dental services program
for indigent oral health care in Georgia. Trager

lives in Marietta, Ga.
LEE D. BARKER has become the

65
managing partner of the law firm

Barker, Roberts, and Richardson. He lives in
Pasadena, Calif.

J. LINDSEY SHORT JR. has been elected a
director of the 53,000-member State Bar of
Texas. He recently received a certificate of

42 W&L

merit from the American Academy of Matri-
monial Lawyers for his three-year term as
editor-in-chief of the academy’s journal. Short
lives in Houston.

66

THOMAS G. DAY is president of Montet
Jewelers in New York City.

May 9-11

MAURICE R. FLIESS is vice president of the
American Newspaper Publishers Association
and editor of the association’s monthly journal,
presstime. He lives in Reston, Va.

SAMUEL H. FRAZIER is a partner in the
Spain Gillon law firm in Birmingham, Alla.

T. M. (TIM) HENRY recently traveled to
Brazil with a group from his church to help build
a mission school. Henry lives in West Palm

Beach, Fla.

Virginia Gov. Douglas Wilder has appointed
VAL S. McWHORTER to the State Council
of Higher Education for a three-year term.
McWhorter lives in Springfield, Va.

J. W. (RICK) RICHMOND JR. is president of
the Charlottesville-Albemarle Bar Association.
He is also a member of the Virginia State Bar's
legal ethics committee. Richmond lives in
Charlottesville.

67 J. LINDSEY SHORT JR.
(See ’65).

DR. WILLIAM H. SLEDGE is associate chair
for education in the Yale University School of
Medicine’s department of psychiatry. He lives
in Hamden, Conn.

WILLIAM E. TORREY III is spending the
1990-91 academic year at Columbia Universi-
ty as a Gannett Fellow at the Gannett Founda-

tion Media Center. He is also a visiting scholar
at the Columbia School of Public Health. Tor-

rey lives in Gaithersburg, Md.
6 & STEVEN R. SAUNDERS was a

member of the official international
observer delegation for the Pakistan national
elections in October. Saunders monitored elec-
toral activity in Peshawar in the Northwest
Frontier Province. He lives in Alexandria, Va.
9 6 9 WILLIAM T. FLEMING JR.

recently purchased a home in Nor-
mandy which he plans to convert into an inter-
national conference center. The nine-bedroom
mansion was owned by the former mayor of
Domfront and was used to shelter Allied pilots

shot down behind enemy lines during World
War II. Fleming, a career Foreign Service of-

ficer, is currently in charge of the economic sec-
tion at the American Embassy in Abu Dhabi,
United Arab Emirates.

T. M. (TIM) HENRY (See °66).
VAL S. McWHORTER (See ’66).

DR. JOHN G. SIMMONS and his wife, Rene,
live in Jasper, Ala., with their daughters, Sarah
Elizabeth, 12, and Brooks Lauren, 1, and their
son, John Terry, 3.

STEVEN C. SIMON is working toward a
master’s degree in New Testament at Capital
Bible Seminary. He lives in Washington, D.C.
9 7 () CHRISTOPHER D. COURSEN

is head of The Coursen Group,
which provides strategic planning, consultation,
and representation to clients in the areas of
telecommunications and government affairs.
Coursen lives in Bethesda, Md., and is a former

partner in the Washington law firm of O’Con-
nor & Hannan.

DR. HENRY A. FLEISHMAN and a partner
have opened a Taco Bell franchise in Eden,
N.C. They expect that their company, Eden
Hombres Inc., will open a second restaurant
this summer.

DR. ROBERT T. (CHIP) SCHOOLEY is
chief of the infectious diseases division at the
University of Colorado Health Sciences Center.

ANDREW B. THOMAS was recently elected
president of the Florida School Board Attorneys’
Association, a statewide organization of lawyers
specializing in representing educational institu-
tions. He is also chairman of the central Florida
chapter of the American Red Cross and presi-
dent of the downtown Orlando Little League.
Thomas and his wife, Suzanne, and their two
children, Alex, 12, and Brindley, 10, live in
Orlando, Fila.

wa

DAVID L. BAIRD JR. has been elected secre-
tary of Exxon Corp. Baird conducts all
secretariat activities for the board of directors
and for the corporation’s management commit-
tee. He lives in the Dallas area with his wife,
Kathy, and their children, Melissa and Amy.

May 9-11

DR. E. WREN HUDGINS is president of the
Washington State Psychological Association,
which represents 800 psychologists in the state.
He lives in Issaquah, Wash.

DR. A. CASH KOENIGER was recently pro-
moted to professor of history at Virginia Military
Institute. He has been awarded a Wachtmeister
Sabbatical for the spring of 1991. Koeniger lives
in Brownsburg, Va.

ROBERT R. RADCLIFFE is an applications
manager for Commodore Business Machines.
He lives in West Chester, Pa.

THE REV. JEFFREY B. SPENCE has been
accepted into the doctor of ministry program
at Virginia Union University’s School of Theol-
ogy in Richmond. He lives in Midlothian, Va.

DR. G. HOY WIDENER III practices ophthal-
mology in Beaufort, S.C., and he is also chief-
of-staff elect at the local hospital. He and his
wife, Ann, have two children, Justin and Collin.

9 ; Z MAX F. BRANTLEY is a political

columnist with the Arkansas Gazette
in Little Rock. He is also assistant managing
editor for the paper’s metropolitan-state news
coverage.

ALBERT P. McWHORTER is executive
director of YMCA Camp Classen, a 2,400-acre
residence camp in southern Oklahoma’s Ar-
buckle Mountains. He and his wife, Debbie,
have two sons, Wade, 14, and Lee, 9. The
family lives in Oklahoma City. —

COL. PAUL A. ROBBLEE JR. is the staff
judge advocate, U.S. Army, Japan/IX Corps.
His wife, Joanne, and their two children plan
to return to the United States this summer.

JAMES E. SPURLOCK, Army Reserve colonel
and Huntington, W.Va., trial lawyer, assumed
command of the 80th Division’s 3rd Brigade in
December. He and his wife, Ann, have six
children—one of whom, Mai, is a freshman at
Washington and Lee.

EVERETT TUCKER III is a partner in Arkan-
sas largest commercial real estate company,
Flake, Tabor, Tucker, Wells, and Kelley. He
also serves as chairman of Little Rock’s hous-
ing authority and is a board member of the
Greater Little Rock Chamber of Commerce.

) 1 3 PAUL C. ARCHER is general

manager of Shenandoah Beverage
Co. in Harrisonburg, Va., and Cavalier Beverage
Co. in Charlottesville, Va.

GREGORY P. BUCH is the production mana-
ger for Glimmerglass Opera in Cooperstown,
N.Y. He lives in Springfield Center, N.Y.

GEORGE E. CALVERT JR. has returned to
Lynchburg, Va., after 10 years in Richmond.
He is a vice president with Central Fidelity
Bank, where he is in charge of municipal bond
trading and public finance.

DR. JOHN H. DUMAS II practices internal
medicine in Birmingham, Ala. In his spare time,
he coaches boys’ basketball and girls’ softball.

 

 

 

Andrew Boyd, second from left, with his fellow travelers

Andrew Boyd, ’82,
Observes Indian Architecture

When F. Andrew Boyd, ’82, was
given the chance to spend four weeks
traveling in India last year, he could
not resist.

‘| wanted to see a country whose
architectural past stretches back hun-
dreds of years before the birth of
Christ,”” recalls Boyd, who holds a
master’s degree in architecture from
Virginia Tech and had been practic-
ing for several years in the Northern
Virginia area.

So when a local district of Rotary
International selected him to par-
ticipate in its Group Study Exchange,
Boyd loaded up with film and a
sketchbook to record his journey.

Each year, Rotary International
and the Rotary Foundation send hun-
dreds of young professionals to coun-
tries throughout the world. The pro-
gram’s purpose is to forge understand-
ing and foster friendships among peo-
ple from vastly different cultures.
Traveling with Boyd were a Baptist
minister, a public mental health ad-
ministrator, a real estate developer,
and a city planner who was himself
a native Indian.

“Our group got along quite well,”’
Boyd recalls. ‘‘One of the trip’s most
valuable lessons was discovering how
six strangers can learn to live and
travel together as a team, becoming

good friends in four short weeks.”

The itinerary included Bombay,
New Delhi, Indore, and Bhopal, as
well as smaller cities. Boyd and his
fellow travelers were often the guests
of Rotary members, who were
hospitable and generous.

‘Our hosts did their best to make
us feel at home,’’ Boyd recalls.
“Although certain modern conve-
niences were lacking, many of the
houses had beautiful marble floors
and hand-crafted details, and all
households had servants.”

Upon his return, Boyd says, he
‘can now better appreciate how for-
tunate we are in America.

“A professor in architecture
school once told me that you should
travel to foreign countries to under-
stand your own better,”” he continues.
“But | can also appreciate that
customs we observe without
thinking—such as eating beef and
moving out of our parents’ house after
college—are considered strange by
another culture, one that is much
older than ours.”’

Boyd recently became a licensed
architect in the state of Virginia. He
has taken a sabbatical from the field
and now works at a hotel in Big
Sky, Mont.

 

 

W&L 43

WADE D. GOWL is in the modular building
business, specializing in correctional institutions
and guard towers. He has also become an of-
ficial in the Potomac Rugby Union. Gow lives
in Jarrettsville, Md.

RONALD A. PEN is assistant professor of
music at the University of Kentucky. He is also
a music critic for the Lexington Herald-Leader
and organist and choirmaster of Holy Trinity
Episcopal Church. He and his wife, Helen, have
one daughter, Robin.

HATTON C. V. SMITH is a coffee salesman
living in Birmingham, Ala. He and his wife,
Ellen, have a 2-year-old daughter, Joslyn.
9 7 4 WILLIAM B. HILL JR. has been
appointed to the position of judge
of the State Court of Fulton County, Ga. Hill
had spent 13 years with the Georgia state at-
torney general’s office, where he was the young-
est person ever to direct a division within the
Georgia law department and was the first black
attorney to represent the state in the U.S.
Supreme Court. Hill and his wife, Melba, live

in Atlanta with their two daughters, Melba Kara
and Morgan Kristopher.

GARY F. HOLLOWAY is executive vice presi-
dent and managing director of Greenwich
Capital Markets Inc. He lives in Darien, Conn.,
with his wife, Julie, and their children: Amy,
7, Suzanne, 3, and Kevin, 1.

J. L. (KIRK) KIRKPATRICK JR. is vice presi-
dent of sales for WaxWorks, a national audio
and video distributor of records, tapes, compact
discs, and movies. His daughter, Kelsey, is 11.
Kirkpatrick lives in Owensboro, Ky.

JOHN S. LALLEY JR. was recently named
director of investor relations and corporate com-
munications for Environmental Elements Corp.
in Baltimore.

MICHAEL S. WEINSTEIN is in his ninth year
of practice at the Acucenter in Santa Monica,
Calif. He practices acupuncture and Oriental

medicine.

9 7 a“ ROBERT A. COOK is a partner
in the Baltimore law firm of Vena-

ble Boetjer & Howard. He represents banks and

other consumer financial services firms.

TRENTON G. CREWE JR. has been elected
mayor of Wytheville, Va. He was a substitute
judge for the 27th Judicial District from 1983
to 1990. He and his wife, Maetta, have a son,
Christopher, 7.

T. BARRY DAVIS has been promoted to
senior account executive at 3M Co. The posi-
tion is attained by less than five percent of 3M’s
force nationally. Davis lives in Potomac, Md.

44 W&L

 

ALAN M. DUNN is deputy assistant secretary
for science and electronics in the U.S. Depart-
ment of Commerce’s International Trade Ad-
ministration. He is responsible for programs to
improve the domestic and international com-
petitiveness of U.S. high-technology industries.
Dunn lives in Alexandria, Va.

WILSON B. FOLMAR is nearing completion
of a bachelor of science degree in civil engineer-
ing at Auburn University. He lives in Mont-
gomery, Ala.

SCOTT GLASS has started an architectural
and planning firm called Scott Glass, Architect.
The firm, located in Lynchburg, Va., specializes
in the design of residential, commercial, and
educational developments, with an emphasis on
innovative and cost-efficient designs.

MICHAEL KURILECZ
JR. has been promoted to
the position of senior vice
president and manager of
corporate lending by First
City Bank in Texas.
Kurilecz, who lives in Fort
Worth, is also a third-year
student at the South-
western Graduate School
of Banking at Southern
Methodist University.

PAUL J. LANCASTER recently traveled to
Nicaragua to produce a documentary for public
television. The documentary focuses on Peace-
work, a project in which Soviet and U.S.
students work side by side on construction proj-
ects in Third World countries. Lancaster is a
radio and television producer for Virginia Tech.
He lives in Blacksburg, Va.

M. PIERCE RUCKER II has been elected
president of the Virginia Association of Defense
Attorneys. He is a partner in the law firm Sands,
Anderson, Marks, and Miller. Rucker lives
in Richmond.

B. HARRISON TURNBULL lives in Char-
lottesville, Va., with his wife, Cindy, and their
children, Ben and Kate. He is chief financial of-
ficer of AMVEST Corp. Turnbull recently ad-
dressed W&L’s freshman class on the concepts
of W&L honor and traditions.

F. L. (BUZ) WALTERS JR. has started Bar-
ton, MacLean, and Walters, a company which
specializes in land and golf course development
and sales. He lives in Atherton, Calif.

16

FRANCIS C. CLARK has been promoted to
the position of senior vice president and asso-

May 9-11

ciate general counsel of First Union Corp. He
lives in Charlotte.

J. MICHAEL LUTTIG has been appointed
assistant U.S. attorney general for the Office of
Legal Counsel. He was unanimously confirmed
by the U.S. Senate in October. Luttig lives in

McLean, Va.

JAMES P. WATSON is senior editor of Na-
tional Wildlife magazine, published by the Na-
tional Wildlife Federation. He and his wife,
Diana, live in Washington, D.C.

9 7 7 RICHARD E. CAMPBELL is an

assistant professor of public and in-
ternational affairs at Osaka International Univer-
sity in Hirakata, Japan. He is also assistant editor
of the Asian Economic Journal. He holds two
master’s degrees from the University of Wash-
ington and a Ph.D. from Kobe University of
Commerce in Japan.

E. NEAL CORY II has been appointed vice
president of Hilliard Lyons, a regional brokerage
firm in Louisville, Ky. He and his wife, Lee,
live in Louisville.

DOUGLASS W. DEWING has been pro-
moted to branch counsel for Lawyers Title In-
surance Corp. in its Fredericksburg, Va., office.

PHILLIP J. ENRICO JR. has joined the law
firm of Dughi & Hewit in Cranford, N.J. He
lives in Plainfield, N.J.

MAJ. RICHARD P. FINK has graduated from
the U.S. Army’s command and general staff of-
ficer course. In October he was awarded a
master of science degree in administration from

Central Michigan University. He lives in
Radcliff, Ky.

DR. S. J. (SANDY) HARCUS practices family
medicine in Martinsville, Va. He spends his
spare time coaching little league soccer and
baseball. Harcus has two sons, ages 5 and 7.

T. A. (TIM) HENDRY III is a marketing
manager with IBM in Denver. He and his wife,
Jean, have a daughter, Marielle Claire, 1.

WILLIAM B. HILL JR. (See ’74).

MARK E. HOFFMAN is a partner in the Bir-
mingham, Ala., law firm of McCord, Feld, and
Hoffman. He specializes in criminal and civil
tax litigation. Hoffman lives in Birmingham with
his wife, Karla.

MARK A. KRIEGER III is chairman and chief
executive officer of the John P. Lucas Printing
Co. in Baltimore. He and his wife, Ruth, live
in Timonium, Md., and have a son, Drew, 7.

MICHAEL W. McMANAMA is manager of
systems integration and benchmarking for the
federal systems division of Wang Laboratories
Inc. He and his wife, Susan, live in Vienna, Va.,
and have two daughters, Cathy and Melissa.

DR. R. MARK PAYNE is in the fourth year
of a fellowship in pediatric cardiology at Wash-
ington University Medical School in St. Louis.
He and his wife, Helen, have two children,
Eliza, 2, and Rebecca, six months.

CURTIS G. POWER III is a partner in the law
firm of Steptoe and Johnson. He and his wife,
Faith, and their son, Curtis IV, live in Mar-
tinsburg, W.Va.

JERRY L. SHORT is an assistant U.S. attorney
for the Western District of Missouri. He lives
in Kansas City, Mo.

WILLIAM C. STANZEL is vice president of
T. H. G. Corp., a hospital pharmacy group in
Tucson, Ariz.

9 7 8 CHARLES V. BROWN III is vice

president of finance for COMSYS
Technical Services Inc., a computer consulting
company. He and his wife, Karen, live in Bal-
timore and have three daughters, Kristen, 7,
Heather, 5, and Kathleen, 1.

SEVERN P. DUVALL III is employed with M.
Sternburg & Co., a money-market brokerage
firm in Ridgefield, Conn. He lives in Westport.

JON P. LECKERLING is vice president,
general counsel, and corporate secretary of
Echlin Inc. He and his wife, Nancy, and their
two sons, Peter and Kit, live in Madison, Conn.

JOHN C. MARTIN is the property controller
for Equity Properties and Development Co. in
Chicago. The company operates shopping
centers and regional malls across the country.
Martin lives in Glen Ellyn, Ill., with his wife,
Roberta, and sons, J.C., 2, and Preston, 1.

R. BOICE McGREW works for Trust Com-
pany Bank in Atlanta.

JEFFREY R. RICH is a partner at the Wood-
bridge, N.J., law firm of Wilentz, Goldman, and
Spitzer. He specializes in commercial real estate
law. He lives in Middletown, N.J., with his wife,
Joan, and their 3-year-old son, Jonathan.

DR. JOHN F. SACCO practices oncology in
Cincinnati, where he lives with his wife, Cathy.

JAMES G. SHERIDAN JR. is manager of the
Advanced Nuclear Design Knolls Atomic Power
Laboratory in Schenectady, N.Y. He and his
wife, Jennifer, have a 7-year-old daughter, Allie.

DR. EDWARD M. ADLER is an
orthopedic surgeon in private prac-

ro

tice in New York City. He and his wife, Dr.
Rachel Osthy, have a 1-year-old son, Austen
Benjamin Adler.

DOUGLAS A. BYRD has
been named a vice presi-
dent and counselor in the
First Wachovia capital
management department at
the First National Bank of
Atlanta. Byrd will provide
asset management and
financial advisory services
to individuals and families.

 

THE REV. H. GRAHAM HUDGINS was ad-
mitted to the Order of Deacon by the Primus
of the American Episcopal Church in October.
He currently teaches math analysis at Norfolk
Academy in Norfolk, Va. Hudgins and his wife,
Elizabeth, have three daughters.

CAPT. GARDNER T. UMBARGER III, a
teacher in the Lynchburg, Va., City School
System, has been activated in support of Opera-
tion Desert Storm.

FRANCIS G. ADDISON IV has
been promoted to vice president by
First Union National Bank
of North Carolina. He is a
senior product manager in
the bank’s cash manage-
ment division. Addison was
recently certified by the
National Corporate Cash
Management Association
as a certified cash manager.
He lives in Charlotte.

  

ANDREW W. BODENSTAB, his wife, Kathy,
and their two daughters, Lindsay, 4, and Lara,
1, have moved to Saratoga Springs, N.Y.
Bodenstab is active in New York government
through his company, Chemical Waste Manage-
ment. He participates in an area soccer league
and the Rotary Club.

DAVID L. CHURCH completed his second
Lancaster County Short-Race Triathlon last fall.
The event included swimming, cycling, and
running and attracted more than 450 par-
ticipants from the Mid-Atlantic states. Church
and his wife live in Devon, Pa.

DAVID L. GARNER is a petroleum geo-
physicist for Chevron. He and his wife, Johanne
Viens, and their son, Mathieu David, live in
Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

SCOTT G. McLAM is vice president for sales
at Franco Manufacturing Co., a textile company
in New York City.

MAJ. GILBERT H. PEARSALL JR. is sta-
tioned in the Mohave Desert at Fort Irwin,
Calif., where he is chief of the Protocol Bureau.

HUGH L. ROBINSON II is a commercial
lender for the First National Bank of Mary-
land, where he recently completed 10 years of
service. He and his wife, Margaret, live
in Baltimore.

Sl

WILLIAM S. ASHE is in his third year of
residency at the Medical College of Virginia. He
will be a pediatric pulmonology fellow at the
University of North Carolina following comple-
tion of his residency this year.

May 9-11

STEVEN M. JOHNSON has been elected to
the board of directors of Brenco Inc., which has
headquarters in Richmond. Johnson is vice
president, general counsel, and secretary of
Tredegar Industries Inc. He lives in Richmond.

D. BRUCE POOLE, a member of the Mary-
land House of Delegates, was named majority
leader of the assembly last fall. He is the
youngest majority leader in Maryland history.
Poole lives in Hagerstown.

ALEXIS V. RICHARDS lives in Lynchburg,
Va., and works for Richards Group Inc., which
specializes in commercial property and casual-
ty insurance.

W. JEFFREY ROBERTS has opened an in-
vestment counseling firm, W. Jeffrey Roberts
& Co., in Roanoke.

EDWARD J. VORWERK works for AT&T at
the company’s headquarters in Bridgewater,
N.J. His responsibilities involve business plan-
ning for product management.

DR. CHARLES H. WARNER has completed
his radiology residency and is now engaged in
a one-year imaging fellowship at Johns Hopkins

University in Baltimore.

"82 DR. HAROLD R. BOHLMAN
III serves in the U.S. Army as chief

of optometry for the 3rd Infantry Division in

Wurzburg, Germany.

J. BRECKINRIDGE DALTON III works for
Levine-Fricke, an engineering and hydrogeol-
ogy consulting firm in Tallahassee, Fla.

EARLE S. GREENE JR. is a telecommunica-
tions officer for the Department of State. He
works in the American Embassy in Khar-
toum, Sudan.

EHRICK K. HAIGHT JR. practices law on
Hilton Head Island, S.C., with the firm Hughes

W&L 45

and Wietus. He and his wife, Jeanne, and their
daughters, Elizabeth and Emily, live in Hilton
Head Plantation.

DR. GILSON J. KINGMAN is a third-year
general surgery resident at St. Joseph Mercy
Hospital in Ann Arbor, Mich.

J. ANDREW LARK is a partner in the New
York City law firm of Lark and Sullivan.

NELSON E. OULD is spending the 1990-91
year at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland,
where he is studying theology.

LIZANNE THOMAS has been named a part-
ner in the Atlanta law firm of Jones, Day,

Reavis, and Pogue.

9 8 3 DR. WILLIAM E. ALISON JR. is
spending a year conducting re-

search at the Shriner Burns Institute in Gal-

veston, Texas. He plans to return to Tulane

University to complete his general surgery

residency.

J. AMBLER CUSICK has joined the invest-
ment firm of Alex Brown & Sons in Washing-
ton, D.C., as an investment representative. He
lives in Bethesda, Md.

JOHNNIE B. De WILDE is executive direc-
tor of the Chicago Board of Ethics. She had
been legal counsel to the board since 1988.

DAVID K. FRIEDFELD’s family business,
Clear Vision Optical, recently negotiated a sun-
glass license with Head & Tyrolia, a sporting
goods company. It represents Clear Vision’s sec-
ond major license, following last year’s license

with Fisher Price for children’s eyewear.
Friedfeld lives in West Hempstead, N.Y.

CHARLES L. KING has opened a law prac-
tice in Arlington County, Va. He lives in
Falls Church.

MICHAEL E. LAYNE is a registered represen-
tative and sales agent with Equitable Financial
Cos. He was recently recognized as a top five-

percent producer for first-year agents. He lives
in Big Island, Va.

F. ERIC NELSON JR. has joined City Holding
Co. as a vice president responsible for portfolio
and asset/liability management and general cor-
porate planning. He lives in Charleston, W.Va.
9 6 4 THOMAS L.H. COCKE is a

copywriter for BBDO Advertising

Agency in Atlanta.

JAMES N. L. HUMPHREYS is an associate
with the law firm Hunter, Smith, and Davis,
which has offices in Kingsport and Johnson City,
Tenn. Humphreys practices insurance defense
law in the firm’s Kingsport office.

46 W&L

BROOKS H. MAYSON is a commercial airline
pilot with U.S. Air. He and his wife, ANN
WILKINSON MAYSON, ’87L, live in
Winston-Salem, N.C., where she practices with
the law firm McCall and James.

JOHN L. McCANTS is an associate lawyer
with the Columbia, S.C., firm of Adams,
Quackenbush, Herring, and Stuart. He prac-
tices bankruptcy law.

EDWARD J. O'BRIEN is in his second year
of law school at the University of Notre Dame,
where he is a member of the law review staff.

LAURIE A. RACHFORD is an attorney in
the law department at Exxon Co., USA,
in Houston.

CAPT. PARKER B. SCHENECKER is sta-
tioned at Fort Huachuca, Ariz. He recently
served for four years in Munich, Germany, and
received the U.S. Army’s Meritorious Ser-
vice Medal.

G. LEIGHTON STRADTMAN is a fourth-
year associate at the Atlanta law firm of Parker,
Johnson, Cook, and Dunleire. He practices pri-
marily in the area of commercial real estate law.
*& 5 G. BRYAN BALAZS is in his final

year of the chemistry Ph.D. pro-

gram at the California Institute of ‘Technology.
He lives in Pasadena, Calif.

DAVID A. EUSTIS recently received a master
of laws degree from Trinity College, Cam-
bridge University.

RONALD M. KATKOCIN has been named
alumni representative to Cabrini College’s board
of trustees. Katkocin received his undergraduate
degree from Cabrini, which is located in Rad-
nor, Pa. He is an associate attorney with the
Voorhees, N.J., law firm of Horn, Kaplan,
Goldberg, Gorny, and Daniels and specializes
in business litigation.

D. BRUCE POOLE (See ’81).

DAVID A. SIZEMORE is a controller with
International Resistive Co. He lives in

Boone, N.C.

86

DR. CHRISTEN A. ALEVIZATOS graduated
from medical school at Vanderbilt University
last May and is now a surgical resident in
urology in Pittsburgh.

May 9-11

JACK C, BENJAMIN JR. is enrolled in the joint
M.B.A.-J.D. program at Tulane University.

GUY A. CALDWELL is a Ph.D. candidate in
molecular biology at the University of Ten-
nessee in Knoxville. He is the author of a best-
selling college textbook, Biotechnology: A Labo-
ratory Course, published worldwide by Harcourt
Brace Jovanovich. Caldwell’s research involves
understanding a molecular basis for cancer.

J. F. (RUSTY) HARTLEY JR. works in the
corporate banking department at Manufacturers
Hanover in New York City. He is also pursu-
ing a master’s degree in business administration
at Columbia Business School.

CHRISTOPHER P. JAKUBEK is a business
development manager for the Pepsi-Cola Co.
in Cheverly, Md. He lives in Baltimore with
BRUCE E. IRVIN, ’86.

JOHN S. JANNER recently resigned from
KPMG Peat Marwick and is now controller for
AMEFLO Products in Santa Ana, Calif. He lives
in Newport Beach.

THOMAS M. JONES is vice president of
operations and finance for Nautilus Industries,
a manufacturer of fitness equipment. He lives
in Roanoke.

After two years as a consultant with Arthur
Andersen in New York City, GARY B. KLINE
has moved upstate and is associated with the
Binghamton law firm of Coughlin & Gerhart.
He lives in Vestal, N.Y., with his wife,
Maureen, and their two children, Andrew, 4,
and Lauren, 2.

MICHAEL R. McALEV-
EY has joined the Atlanta
law firm of Alston & Bird
as an associate in the
business and finance de-
partment. McAlevey re-
ceived his law degree in
1989 from the University
of Virginia, where he was
an editor of the Virginia
Journal of Environmental Law. Following his
graduation he served as a law clerk for the Hon.
Emmett Cox, a U.S. circuit judge for the
11th Circuit.

 

JAMES G. RENFRO JR. has joined Siecor
Fiber Optics as a project engineer. He and his
wife, Stephanie, recently moved to Hickory,
N.C., after Renfro completed a four-year tour
of duty with the U.S. Army.

9 & 7 J. B. JAKE) AMSBARY JR. is a

second-year student at Emory Uni-
versity’s law school. He lives in Decatur, Ga.
WILLIAM A. BROWN has been elected assis-

tant vice president at Wachovia Bank and Trust
Co. in Winston-Salem, N.C.

A. M. (MAC) GIBSON has joined the Atlanta
law firm of Alston & Bird as an associate in the
litigation department. Gibson earned his law
degree cum laude in 1990 from the University
of Georgia, where he was a member of the law
review managerial and editorial boards.

H. B. (HANK) GREENBERG JR. is vice presi-
dent of Silver Fox Inc., a chain of women’s
specialty stores that operate under the names
of Coplon’s, Fine’s, Frances Kahn, and Johnston
of Florida. Greenberg lives in Savannah, Ga.

JAMES N. L. HUMPHREYS (See '84).

After spending two years teaching English in
Japan, MARK B. HURDLE now lives in

Baltimore.

C. JOSEPH KETTLER III is a second-year law
student at the University of Alabama.

ANN WILKINSON MAYSON (See Brooks H.
Mayson, °84).

RICHARD J. PIERCE is assistant district court
administrator in Carlisle, Pa. He also works as
a play-by-play announcer for local high school
football and basketball games. He is pursuing
a master’s degree in public administration at
Shippensburg University.

BRUCE A. REED is billing manager for
Hecht’s Department Store’s credit department.
He has been with Hecht’s for three years and
lives in McLean, Va.

THOMAS W. THAGARD III is in his third
year of law school at the University of Virginia.

CLEMENT C. TORBERT III is a second-year
law student at the University of Alabama.

E. LLOYD WILLCOX II received a juris doc-
tor degree from the University of South Carolina
in May 1990. He has joined the law firm of
Willcox, McLeod, Buyck, Baker, and Williams
in Florence, S.C.

ROBERT A. VIENNEAU is associated with
the San Diego law firm of Klinedinst and
Fliehman. He lives in San Diego with his wife,

BETH COUSLAND VIENNEAU, ’89.
JOHN R. ANDERSON is a

88
second-year law student at the Uni-

versity of North Carolina. He lives in Durham.

CHARLES C. BENEDICT JR. works for
‘Trust Company Bank in Atlanta. He lives with
David Collerain, 88, David Gray, ’88, Bill Ew-
ing, 86, and Brian Tanis, ’90.

PAUL A. BURKE is the director of student ac-
tivities at Greenwich High School in Green-
wich, Conn. He also coaches junior varsity
basketball and varsity lacrosse.

D. FORREST CANNON JR. is a first-year stu-
dent at the University of Pennsylvania’s Lander
Institute of Management and International
Studies. After two years in the program he will
earn a master’s degree in business administra-
tion at The Wharton School and a master of
arts degree in international affairs in the School
of Arts and Sciences.

ROBIN E. DEARING is an associate with the
Roanoke firm Jolly, Place, Fralin, and Prillaman.

ROBERT M. DRAKE is a general mortgage
loan administration officer for Wachovia Bank
and Trust Co. in Winston-Salem, N.C.

F. T. (TY) EDMONDSON is a student at
Widener Law School in Wilmington, Del.

PETER G. FASER and his wife, Evan, have
moved to Boca Raton, Fla., where he works in
management at B. K. Polo/Ralph Lauren. He
plans to enter law school next fall.

GUY C. FULWILER is a sales representative
with Lanier Business Products in Atlanta.

JOHN C. GAMMAGE JR. is an associate in
Manufacturers Hanover’s merchant banking
group. He lives in New York City.

MONICA L. MILLER is a clerk for the chief
federal district court judge in San Diego.

RICHARD C. NORRIS
has been promoted to the
position of commercial loan
officer at North Carolina
National Bank. He joined
A el NCNB in 1988 and has
kK 3 Rt > worked in its High Point

  

if A bank since 1989. He is a
a BS .

 : ‘ _ volunteer for the Piedmont
is i Environmental Center.

JAMES A. SOWERSBY is pursuing a master’s
degree in business administration at Rollins Col-

lege. He lives in Orlando, Fila.
9 8 9 MELISSA I. ANEMOJANIS is an

interviewer in Washington and
Lee’s admissions office. She also works part
time at the accounting firm of Raetz and
Hawkins in Lexington.

KRISTIN L. BARNES is an accountant with
the firm Raetz and Hawkins in Lexington.

JEFFREY D. BERCAW is a manufacturing
engineer at Xerox Corp. in Rochester, N.Y. He
is also pursuing a master’s degree in business
administration at the University of Rochester.

CATHERINE M. BOARDMAN works in pro-
duction for Cable News Network in Atlanta.

RICHARD G. BROCK is a first-year law stu-
dent at the University of Alabama.

M. WARREN BUTLER is a second-year law
student at the University of Alabama. He lives
with BANKS LADD, ’89, who is a first-year
law student at Alabama.

DEBORAH E. HATTES is a first-year grad-
uate student in history at Cornell University.

VANESSA E. HICKS has left the firm of
Natkin, Heslep, Seigel, and Natkin and has
opened her own practice in Lexington.

DEBRA B. HURTT is in her second year of
medical school at the University of Maryland
in Baltimore.

DOUGLAS C. MARTINSON II has earned
an LL.M. degree in taxation from Boston
University. He now practices law with his father
at Martinson and Beason in Huntsville, Ala. He
specializes in estate planning and tax law.

DREW W. PLATT is pursuing a master’s
degree in fine arts at the Kranert Center for the
Performing Arts in Urbana, Ill.

RONALD S. RANGE JR. has joined the
Northeast Tennessee office of the law firm
Baker, Worthington, Crossley, Stansberry &
Woolf as an associate attorney. He lives in
Johnson City, Tenn.

JOSEPH F. ROWE III is a first-year medical
student at the Medical College of Virginia
in Richmond.

JULIE SALERNO is an assistant director of ad-
missions at Washington and Lee.

JULIA J. SNOWDON is in her second and final
year of graduate school at Wake Forest Univer-
sity in Winston-Salem, N.C. She is completing
a master’s degree in counseling.

DAVID K. SURFACE works for a commer-
cial real estate firm in Atlanta.

BETH COUSLAND VIENNEAU (See Robert
A. Vienneau, ’87).

DR. A. ROBINSON WINN is with the law
firm of Whitaker & McCormack in Chesa-

peake, Va.
JEFFREY J. CAGGIANO is a

90
pharmaceuticals salesman with the

Upjohn Co. near Boston.

DELOS R. CLARK has been elected president
of the first-year law class at Willamette Univer-
sity in Salem, Ore.

JOANNE E. EVEN is a marketing assistant
for Warren Whitney & Sherwood. She lives
in Richmond.

W&L 47

 

Tax Laws and Charitable Giving in 1991

iven the fanfare attendant to recent changes in the tax

laws relative to gifts made in 1991, | thought I'd use this
issue’s column to reassure you that, indeed, the effect should
be minimal or nonexistent for the vast majority of you.

The 1990 Tax Reform Act, for most taxpayers, does not
diminish the charitable deduction you would receive for mak-
ing a gift to W&L. It does, however, make the calculation of
your deduction a bit more complicated. Different rules apply
at different income levels. For this reason, we reiterate our ad-
vice that you always seek counsel from your accountant and,
when appropriate, from your attorney before making a gift. In
particular, for those with an adjusted gross income in excess
of $250,000, such counsel is of paramount importance.

Three aspects of the new law bear mentioning here:

1. When you make a gift to W&L of appreciated property (common
stock and real estate are two examples), you avoid the capital gain tax
on the appreciation in that asset. Formerly, the capital gain tax rate was

equivalent to your income tax bracket. The new capital gain tax rate
is limited to 28 percent.

2. The Alternative Minimum Tax, a tax that can be levied upon very
high-income donors, still applies to gifts of greatly appreciated proper-
ty. This tax rate increases from 21 percent to 24 percent.

3. A provision in the new law exempts from Alternative Minimum Tax
consideration gifts of tangible personal property (works of art, antiques)
for a use related to W&L’s mission. This exemption is for 1991 only.

Those of you who support the University financially do so
with love and with a sense of appreciation for the unique place
it holds in your heart. Your donations truly are gifts. Rest assured
that the government continues to recognize your support of
W&L by offering some financial incentives for your head to
follow your heart.

Thanks for your ongoing support of Washington and Lee.

David R. Long
Director of Planned Giving
(703) 463-8425

 

 

 

STEWART G. FLIPPEN is employed with
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Virginia. He lives
in Richmond.

ANTHONY J. FRANK JR. is a first-year
medical student at the Eastern Virginia Medical
School in Norfolk.

CHRISTOPHER M. GIBLIN is director of
alumni affairs at Episcopal High School in Alex-
andria, Va.

M. CATHERINE HUNT is employed with
Young Care Inc., where she teaches three- and
four-year-olds. She lives in Baltimore.

BRIAN W. ROBINSON is an associate in the
firm Hale and Dorr in Boston.

EDWARD T. ROWAN JR. is an account ex-
ecutive with C&P Telephone Co. of Maryland.
He lives in Arlington, Va.

LEA F. SANTAMARIA is a student at the
American Graduate School of International
Management (Thunderbird). She lives in Glen-
dale, Ariz.

COURTNEY SIMMONS works for the En-
vironmental Protection Agency in Washington,
D.C. She plans to enter law school at Yale
University next year.

DAVID P. SMITH is a first-year law student
at the University of Texas at Austin.

MARTHA L. SMITH is a first-year law stu-
dent at the University of Texas at Austin.

FREDERICK J. TURPIN JR. is a financial
analyst with First Boston in New York City.

ROBERT A. VIENNEAU (See ’87).
48 W&L

 

 

 

Marriages

 

ROBERT L. STEIN, ’41, and Eleanor F. Eady
on July 27, 1990, in Harrods Creek, Ky. The
couple lives in Louisville, Ky.

JOHN F. DAVIS, ’55, and Linda Montedonico
Killion on April 14, 1990. The couple lives in
Silver Spring, Md., and Davis is a facility and
operations manager at Goddard Space Flight
Center in Greenbelt, Md.

DAVID B. LONG, ’68, and Judy Robinett on
Aug. 18, 1990. The couple lives in Tyler,
Texas, where Long is an attorney.

DR. CHRISTOPHER D. FRIEND, ’71, and
Connie Belvens on June 2, 1990. The couple
lives in Charlottesville, Va., where Friend is
a cardiologist.

ROBERT P. BOYD, °73, and Mary Lou
McCarthy on Aug. 28, 1990, in Anguilla, British
West Indies. The couple lives in Devon, Pa.

MARK E. GEORGE, ’76, and Dena Kaye Ben-
ning on Oct. 27, 1990, in Prattsville, Ark. The
couple lives in Little Rock, Ark., where George
is a financial adviser with Prudential Bache.

DAVID B. JOHNSTON, ’77, and Patricia
Garvey on Sept. 9, 1990, in New Orleans. The
wedding party included classmates Rand J.
Krikorian, Michael M. Monahan, W. Scott
Franklin, and Michael D. Armstrong. The cou-
ple lives in Boston, where Johnston is a manager
of international finance with Digital Equipment
Corp.

DAVID R. MESCHUTT, °77, and Sarah
Bevan on July 14, 1990, in London. The cou-
ple lives in Highland Falls, N.Y. Meschutt is
curator of art at the U.S. Military Academy's
West Point Museum in West Point, N.Y.

CECIL E. CARDER JR., ’78, and Sunni Tuia
Lee on Oct. 27, 1990. The couple lives in —
Bangkok, Thailand, where Carder is with —
Security Pacific Asian Bank.

CHARLES L. HALL, ’78, and Mary Griffin _
on Sept. 1, 1990, in Knoxville, Tenn. The cou- _
ple lives in Columbia, S.C. 4

GREGORY A. LILLY, ’79, and Karen L. San-
ford on June 2, 1990, in Durham, N.C. The
couple lives in Hillsborough, N.C., and Lilly
teaches economics at Elon College.

TIMOTHY A. BROOKS, ’°80, and Maria
Cecilia Alfaro Chamorro on June 17, 1990, in
Chicago. The wedding party included James D.
Stanton, ’82, and Jeffrey T. Powers, ’80. The
couple lives in Chicago, where Brooks is direc-
tor of marketing for Le Meridien Hotels.

DR. ALBIN B. HAMMOND III, ’80, and Julia
Elizabeth Shelton on Sept. 22, 1990, in West
Point, Va. Neil T. Treger, ’80, was a member
of the wedding party. The couple lives in Mont-
clair, N.J.

DR. WILLIAM H. MATTHAI JR., ’80, and
Dr. Samantha Pfeifer on May 26, 1990. Hugh
L. Robinson, ’80, was a member of the wedding
party. The couple lives in Upper Darby, Pa.

BRIAN M. GINSBURG, ’81, and Julie M.
Libert on June 10, 1990, in Princeton, N.J.

 

GEORGE R. IRVINE Ill, ’81, and Sallye
English on Sept. 22, 1990, in New Orleans.
The wedding party included John G. Billmyre,
81, J. Stratton Moore, ’82, and Robert J.
Mullican, ’81. Irvine is an attorney in Mobile,
Ala. The couple is living temporarily in LaPorte,
Texas, where Irvine is a captain on active duty
in the U.S. Army Reserve in support of Opera-
tion Desert Storm.

JEFFERSON J. REITER, ’81, and Catherine
J. Howley on Oct. 6, 1990, in Canton, Ohio.
The couple lives in Chicago, where Reiter is
senior editor of Dairy Foods magazine.

PAUL T. VAN COTT, ’81, and Leslie Dane
of Onchiota, N.Y., on July 19, 1990. The cou-
ple lives in Saranac Lake, N.Y., where Van Cott
is a lawyer for New York’s Department of En-
vironmental Control.

F. MATLOCK ELLIOTT, ’82L, and Kimber-
ly S. Barnett on Sept. 8, 1990. The couple lives
in Greenville, S.C.

EDWARD A. GONSALVES, ’82, and Patricia
T. Bozer on Nov. 3, 1990, in Washington,
D.C. Robert G. Ortiz, 83, was a member of
the wedding party. The couple lives in Wash-
ington, and Gonsalves is an attorney specializ-
ing in health-care litigation with the Fairfax, Va.,
law firm Crews and Hancock.

ERIC T. MYERS, °82, and Christine
McCarrick of Chevy Chase, Md., on Oct. 6,
1990. Groomsmen included Herbert G. Smith
II, ’80, °83L, James W. Hartz, ’83, and
Channing M. Hall Ill, °81. The couple lives in
Washington, D.C.

CHARLES E. THOMPSON, ’83, and Beth
Ann Sodus on June 2, 1990, in Carlisle, Pa.
‘Thompson is a reporter for the Patriot-News in
Harrisburg, Pa. The couple lives in Carlisle.

WILLIAM E. BENSON JR., ’84, and Melinda
D. Church on July 28, 1990, in Tulsa, Okla.
The wedding party included Christopher C.
Craig, 84, Christopher Leva, ’86, Christopher
M. Lillja, ’85, and Donald B. Smith, °84.
Benson is a counselor and teacher at Dabney
S. Lancaster Community College in Clifton
Forge, Va., and the couple lives in Rock-
bridge Baths.

RUSSELL R. ROSLER, ’84, and Danielle
Conrad Hoots on Nov. 17, 1990, in Winston-
Salem, N.C. Classmates Charles J. Fox and
Barry P. Waterman were in the wedding party.
The couple lives in Bexley, Ohio, and Rosler
is an attorney with Vorys, Sater, Seymour and
Pease in Columbus, Ohio.

ANDREA L. FULTON, ’84L, and William R.
Toliver on Sept. 15, 1990, in Adlanta. The cou-
ple lives in Decatur, Ga.

DR. ANDREW B. COLE, ’85, and Jane E.
Greer on May 27, 1990, in Norfolk, Va. Cole
is a resident physician in emergency medicine
at Eastern Virginia Graduate School of
Medicine. The couple lives in Norfolk.

MARY BETH POWELL, ’85L, and Edo M.
van der Zee on May 26, 1990. The bride prac-
tices law with the firm Schulman, Howard, and
Hemphill in Jacksonville, Fla.

DANA J. BOLTON, ’86L, and Michelle Reiter
in April 1990. Bolton practices law with the
European corporate group of Coudert Brothers
in New York City.

LAWRENCE A. CODISPOTI, *86L, and
Mary Filardo on Sept. 2, 1990, in Crestwood,
N.Y. The couple lives in Scarsdale, N.Y.

JOHN B. LEWIS, °86, and Mary S. (Polly)
Paton on June 30, 1990, in Lee Chapel. The
wedding party included R. Brooke Lewis, *76,
°83L, Daniel F. Dupre, ’86, ’90L, Christopher
J. Komosa, ’86, and Philip L. Hinerman, ’79L.
The couple lives in Lynchburg, Va., where
Lewis is an assistant vice president with Cen-
tral Fidelity Bank.

MICHAEL P. MARSHALL, ’86, and Kathleen
Stevenson on Sept. 22, 1990, in Chicago. Mar-
shall is the assistant vice president of operations
for his family’s hotel management company,

Marshall Management. He and his wife live in
Salisbury, Md.

WILLIAM L. CURTISS, °87, and Nancy J.
Giblin of Forest Hills, N.Y., on Aug. 25, 1990.
The wedding party included David A. Curtiss,
’83, Eric R. Acra, 88, William A. Garrett III,
°87, and Christopher J. Lederer, ’87. The cou-
ple lives in Forest Hills, and Curtiss is the super-
visor of operations for Proudfoot Reports Inc.
in New York City.

ROBERT K. MERRITT II, ’87, and Rachel
R. Blumen on Aug. 31, 1990, in Atlanta. They
live in Atlanta, where both are employed by the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control.

W. H. (BRANDT) SURGNER JR., °87, and
Amanda Little on July 14, 1990. The wedding
party included Robert B. Jones, ’88, Kevin T.
Hunt, ’88, R. M. (Mac) McGrew, °87, and
Joseph W. Luter IV, ’88. The couple lives in
Charlotte, where Surgner is an assistant vice
president in NCNB’s U.S. corporate bank-
ing division.

CHARLES T. GAY, ’89, and Holly E. Hinman
on Oct. 29, 1990, in Vicksburg, Miss. ‘The wed-
ding party included Charles E. Gay IV, ’62, John
R. Lawson, ’89, Mark G. Bryant, 89, R. Scott
Cornell, "90, James B. Lake, 90, Henry H.
Mayer III, 89, and Todd M. Ratcliff, 89. The
couple lives in Valdosta, Ga.

MARY ANNE LOFTIN, ’89, and Robert W.
White on July 21, 1990, in Winston-Salem,
N.C. The wedding party included Vanessa
Hartman, ’89, and Julie Salerno, ’89. The bride
is pursuing a master’s degree in physical therapy
at Duke University Medical Center. The cou-
ple lives in Burlington, N.C.

DARRIN L. McCULLOUGH, ’89L, and
KRISTEN K. MEAD, ’90L, on Aug. 25, 1990,
in New York. The groom is an associate in the
Savannah, Ga., law firm of Hunter, MacLean,
Exley, and Dunn. The bride is a clerk for Chief
Judge Charles B. Mikell of the State Court of
Georgia. The couple lives in Savannah.

ALAN J. HEINRICH, ’90, and EILEEN F.
LABASHINSKY, ’90, on Sept. 22, 1990, in
Lee Chapel. The couple lives in Columbus, Ga.

TODD C. PEPPERS, ’90, and Wendy
Novicoff on Aug. 5, 1990, in Omaha, Neb. The
wedding party included R. Scott Bell, 91, Delos
R. Clark, "90, Thomas A. Brubaker, 90, and
J. Tucker Alford, 89. The couple lives in
Charlottesville, Va.

 

Births

MR. AND MRS. JAMES D. AWAD, ’67, their
third child, Andrew James, on Nov. 20, 1990.
The family lives in New York, N.Y.

 

 

 

MR. AND MRS. RUFUS D. (DICK) KIN-
NEY, ’69, a son, Shannon Cleveland, on July
23, 1990. The family lives in Jacksonville, Ala.

MR. AND MRS. DONALD C. McCLURE
JR., °69, a son, Stuart Latham, on March 21,
1990. The family lives in Memphis, Tenn.

MR. AND MRS. ROY D. CARLTON, ’71,
’74L, a daughter, Isabella D'Alessandro, on May
23, 1990. Carlton is associate general counsel
of Douglas Aircraft Co. The family lives in
Manhattan Beach, Calif.

MR. AND MRS. McDONALD WELLFORD
JR.,°71L, a son, McDonald III, on March 15,
1990. He joins two sisters, Megan, 6, and
Kelley, 5. The family lives in Richmond.

MR. AND MRS. DOUGLAS H. MADISON,
'72, a son, Roger McHugh, on July 13, 1990.
The family lives in Louisville, Ky., where
Madison is senior vice president and manager
of the regional banking division for Liberty Na-
tional Bank and Trust Co.

W&L 49

MR. AND MRS. JOHN C. UPDIKE JR.,’73,
a daughter, Susan Penelope, on March 26,
1990. She joins three sisters—Abigail, 13,
Maria, 10, and Letta Katherine, 3—and a
brother, Conner, 11. The family lives in Lake
Wales, Fla., where Updike is a citrus grower
and rancher.

MR. AND MRS. SAMUEL F. ALBERGOT-
TI, ’74, a son, Philip Gaston, on Oct. 23, 1990.
He joins a brother, Greer, 5, and sisters Mar-
tha, 4, and Claudia, 2. The family lives in
Anderson, S.C., where Albergotti is a partner
with the law firm Albergotti and White.

MR. AND MRS. R. E. (REG) GARNER, ’74,
a daughter, Elizabeth Marie, on June 20, 1990.
She joins Dorothea, 10, and Heyward, 8. The
family lives in Winston-Salem, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. KENNETH HURD, ’74, a
son, Michael Collier, by adoption. He was born
June 5, 1990. The family lives in Steamboat
Springs, Colo.

MR. AND MRS. LOUIS A. LeLAURIN III,
75, a daughter, Marguerite Claire, on Oct. 5,
1990. The family lives in San Antonio, Texas.

MR. AND MRS. MICHAEL M. CHRISTO-
VICH, °76, a daughter, Michelle Mossy,
on Aug. 15, 1990. The family lives in
New Orleans.

MR. AND MRS. CRAIG H. COLLER, ’76,
a daughter, Molly Louise, on April 21, 1990.
The family lives in Miami Shores, Fla.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES E. ENGLEHART,
76, a daughter, Rebecca Rose, on Jan. 13,
1991. She joins a sister, Emilie, 4, and a
brother, Andrew, 3. The family lives in Wil-
mington, Del.

MR. AND MRS. TERRENCE L. McCAR-
TIN, ’76, a daughter, Bridget Leigh, on Aug.
13, 1990. McCartin is a project manager for
ITT Avionics in Clifton, N.J. The family lives
in Silver Spring, Md.

MR. AND MRS. S. MICHAEL McCOL-
LOCH, ’76, a son, Sidney Michael Jr., on Oct.
3, 1990, in Dallas. He joins two sisters, Anne
Lindsey, 4, and Catherine, 2.

MR. AND MRS. PATRICK K. SIEG, ’76, a
daughter, Erica Lise, on Dec. 26, 1990. She
joins a brother, Robert Patrick, 3. The family
lives in Germantown, Md.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN R. BUCKTHAL, ’77,
their second daughter, Catherine Alexis, on
Nov. 9, 1990, in Amarillo, Texas. She joins a
2-year-old sister, Elizabeth Anne.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM E. CRAVER III,
77, a son, William Barrett, on Sept. 6, 1990.
The family lives in Sullivan’s Island, S.C.

50 W&L

MR. AND MRS. CHARLES M. LOLLAR,
‘77L, their third child, Matthew Jarrett, on July
27, 1990. Lollar is a partner with Heilig,
McKenry, Fraim, and Lollar, a 20-lawyer firm
in Norfolk, Va. He is secretary of the board of
governors of the Virginia Bar Association’s real
property section and is treasurer of the Norfolk
and Portsmouth Bar Association.

MR. AND MRS. PAUL K. BROCK JR., ’78,
a daughter, Myra Casey, on June 6, 1990. The
family lives in Lookout Mountain, Tenn.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES C. KINGSBERY,
'78, a daughter, Caroline Brady, on Nov. 15,
1990. She joins brothers James, Paul, and
Teddy. The family lives in Rumson, N.]J.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID J. McLEAN, ’78, a
son, Michael David, on Nov. 25, 1990. He
joins a sister, Emily. The family lives in San
Marino, Calif.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN T. JESSEE, ’79L, a
daughter, Laura Elizabeth, on Dec. 5, 1990.
The family lives in Roanoke, where Jessee is
a partner in the law firm Woods, Rogers,
and Hazlegrove.

MR. AND MRS. DOUGLAS C. BROEKER,
’80L, their second son, Tyler Ink, on July 12,
1990. He joins William Grant, 3. The family
lives in Miami.

MR. AND MRS. MICHAEL F. DEIGHAN,
’80, a daughter, Kathleen, on Oct. 8, 1990. She
joins a brother, Justin, and sister, Mikaela. The
family lives in Charlottesville, where Deighan
writes business simulation programs for Inter-
pretive Software.

MR. AND MRS. MALCOLM S. DORRIS,
’80L, a son, Gregory Kent, on Nov. 6, 1990.
The family lives in Brooklyn, N.Y.

DR. AND MRS. H. DEVON GRAHAM III,
’80, a son, Ian Alexander, on Sept. 5, 1990, in
New Orleans. He joins a brother, Devon, 5.
Graham is a facial plastic surgeon at Ochsner
Foundation. The family lives in Metairie, La.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID A. GREER, ’80, a
daughter, Margaret Anne, on July 12, 1990. She

joins a sister, Elizabeth. The family lives in Nor-
folk, Va.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES H. PARKER, ’80,
a son, James Simon, on Oct. 27, 1990. The
family lives in Mount Pleasant, S.C., where
Parker is a business reporter for the Charleston
Post-Courier. He was recently named president
of the Lowcountry (S.C.) chapter of the Socie-
ty of Professional Journalists.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM S. RIDGE, ’80,
a daughter, Claire Davidson, on Nov. 2, 1990.
The family lives in Fairway, Kan.

CLARA S. SMITH, ’81L, and MICHAEL B.
HUBBARD, ’76,’79L, a son, Ian Michael, on
Dec. 4, 1990. He joins a sister, Megan
Elizabeth, 8, and a brother, Andrew Braden, 4.
The family lives in Vienna, Va.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT E. WALTON JR.,
81, ason, Peter Brende, on May 15, 1990. He
joins a sister, Katie, 2. The family lives in Chevy
Chase, Md.

MR. AND MRS. MARK A. WILLIAMS,
’81L, their second son, Glenn Bright, on Nov.
10, 1990. The family lives in Roanoke.

MR. AND MRS. PAUL M. BLACK, ’82, a
daughter, Elizabeth McKeehan, on Nov. 15,
1990. The family lives in Richmond.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM W. BOURNE,
’82, a son, William Tucker, on April 11, 1990,
The family lives in Bloomfield, N.J.

MR. AND MRS. E. W. (DERBY) DAVID,
’82, a daughter, Lauren Anne, on June 5, 1990.
The family lives in Austin, Texas.

MR. AND MRS. J. E. JED) DUNN JR., ’82,
their third son, Hanes Myers, on Sept. 10,
1990. The family lives in Greensboro, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID E. JENSEN, ’82, a
daughter, Ashley Michelle, on Dec. 25, 1990.
The family lives in Needham, Mass.

MR. AND MRS. MARK G. RENTSCHLER,
82, ason, Henry Adam, on Aug. 19, 1990. He
joins two sisters, Catherine, 5, and Emily, 2.
The family lives in Hamilton, Ohio, where
Rentschler is a plant manager with South-
western Ohio Steel.

DR. AND MRS. ROBERT D. SHAVER, ’82,
a daughter, Cassidy Dawson, on June 16, 1990.
She joins a brother, Davis, 2. Shaver is a resi-
dent in obstetrics and gynecology at Lankenau
Hospital in Philadelphia.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN R. SMITH JR., ’82,
a son, John Randolph III, on Aug. 13, 1990.
Smith is sales manager with Advo-System Inc.
in the Hampton Roads, Va., market. The family
lives in Norfolk, Va.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT S. GRIFFITH III,
’83, a daughter, Meredith Sullivan, on Oct. 16,
1990. The family lives in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. ERIC A. HEINSOHN, ’83,
a son, Luke Jackson Lauderdale, on Dec. 18,
1990. He joins a brother and four sisters, in-
cluding Angie Carrington, 94. The family lives
in Charlottesville, Va., where Heinsohn is a pro-
fessional musician and songwriter.

MR. AND MRS. HERBERT M. PONDER
III, 83, a son, Herbert Madison IV (Skeet), on
Nov. 9, 1990. The family lives in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. HENRY W. ROYAL, ’83,
a daughter, Anna Elizabeth, on Sept. 28, 1990,
in Charlotte. She joins a brother, Wood, 2.

MR. AND MRS. EDWARD W. RUGELEY
II], °83, °86L, a daughter, Kathryn Lynn, on
Nov. 16, 1990. The family lives in Charles-
ton, W.Va..

MR. AND MRS. W. MIDDLETON SELF
III, °83, a daughter, Cassidy Lee, on Sept. 6,
1990. The family lives in Falls Church, Va., and
Self is a systems engineer at the night vision
and electro-optics lab in Fort Belvoir.

MR. AND MRS. PAUL F. CHAPMAN, ’84,
a son, Thomas Stephen, on Nov. 12, 1990.
The family lives in Maplewood, Minn.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT B. DICKERT,
’°84L, a son, John Warren, on Jan. 24, 1990.
He joins brothers George Mason, 9, and Robert
William, 5. The family lives in Bristol, Va.

MR. AND MRS. LEE R. FELDMAN, ’84, a
daughter, Kaitlin Ilona, on Aug. 27, 1990. The
fami! lives in Miramar, Fla., and Feldman is
the deputy city manager for the City of North
Miami. He was recently elected national vice
president for junior officer affairs of the Naval
Reserve Association.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM W. DeCAMP,
85, a son, William Wood, on July 27, 1990.
The family lives in Nashville, Tenn.

MR. AND MRS. ANDREW G. HARING,
'85, a daughter, Misa, in July 1990. The family
lives in New York City.

REBECCA NICHOLS JOHNSON, ’85L, and
W. P. (CHIP) JOHNSON, ’85L, a son, John
Paul, on Sept. 15, 1990. Both parents work for
the law firm of Hinkle, Cox, Eaton, Coffield,
and Hensley in Roswell, N.M.

MR. AND MRS. CHARLES M. MARTIN
JR., °85, a daughter, Haley Marie, on Jan. 12,
1991. Martin is an assistant district attorney in
Dallas County, Texas.

MR. AND MRS. JONATHAN P. RAK,
'85L, their second daughter, Lindsay Christine,
on Aug. 30, 1990. The family lives in Alexan-
dria, Va.

MR. AND MRS. MARSHALL R. YOUNG,
85, a daughter, Carlson Elizabeth, on Oct. 29,
1990. The family lives in Fort Worth, Texas.

LOUISE PHIPPS SENFT, ’88L, and
WILLIAM W. SENFT, ’88L, a daughter, Paula
Hunn, on Aug. 24, 1990. The baby’s father is
associated with the law firm Miles and Stock-
bridge in Baltimore, where the family lives.

 

In Memoriam

 

 

 

CRAIG HOUSTON PATTERSON, ’19, for-
mer missionary to China and retired Presby-
terian minister, died Nov. 18, 1990, in Har-
risonburg, Va. Patterson received his bachelor
of divinity degree from Union Theological
Seminary in Richmond in 1923 and was a mis-
sionary in China from 1923 to 1941. During
his furloughs from the mission field, he worked
with the YMCA and was pastor of a church in
‘Tazewell, Va. During World War I, Patterson
served as a gunnery sergeant and aviation cadet
in the U.S. Marine Corps. Following his ser-
vice as a missionary, he was a full-time Presby-
terian minister until his retirement in 1972.
From 1973 to 1979, he served as supply pastor
for the Bramwell, W.Va., Presbyterian Church.
He received an honorary doctor of divinity
degree from Washington and Lee in 1937.
Patterson served on the Presbyterian World
Mission Board and on the board of trustees of
Union Theological Seminary.

ALLEN WESCOTT, °19, retired General
Motors executive, died Dec. 13, 1990, at his
home in Belle Haven, Va. After serving as a
U.S. Army pilot in World War I, he completed
his education in engineering at Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. Wescott was director
of parts and service for both the U.S. and ex-
port divisions of General Motors. He returned
from overseas at the beginning of World War
II to oversee parts and services for Eastern Air-
craft. He also served on the President's War
Production Council. After the war he retired to
Virginia’s Eastern Shore.

LEONARD NOEL SOWARDS, ’20, retired
attorney, died in May 1990. He served as com-
monwealth’s attorney of Dickenson County,
Va., from 1921 to 1923 and as chief attorney
for the Veterans’ Administration from 1931 to
1941. He lived for many years in Arlington, Va.,
and retired in Hialeah, Fla.

JOHN BENJAMIN PERRY JR., ’27, died Sept.
10, 1990, in Neptune Beach, Fla. Following his
graduation from W&L he worked for several
banks in West Virginia and southwest Virginia
before joining the loan department of the U.S.
Veterans Administration. He retired in 1972.

THE REV. ROBERT WILBUR SIMMONS,
'27, died Nov. 9, 1990, at his home in Clare-
mont, Calif. At W&L, Simmons was president
of the YMCA, a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
and an alternate Rhodes Scholar for two years.
He also won the Algernon Sydney Sullivan
Award. For a year following his graduation, he

spoke at colleges and universities on the Eastern
Seaboard about the importance of Prohibition.
He went on to the Yale Divinity School, where
he was an undercover agent for the U.S. govern-
ment and Yale University and investigated
gambling, prostitution, and liquor sales around
the Yale campus. He graduated in 1936.
Simmons served churches in Connecticut, Ore-
gon, California, and Colorado. Following World
War II, he went to Europe as a member of the
Committee for War Victims and Reconstruc-
tion. He spent the following year speaking in
U.S. churches to raise relief funds. From 1962
to 1969, Simmons was a conference minister
in Montana. In 1969 he and his wife went to
Te Kauwhata, New Zealand, where they served
St. Andrews Presbyterian Church and helped
found a retirement center. During his career,
Simmons also served as chaplain of the Califor-
nia Assembly while assigned to a church in
Sacramento. In 1970 he was a delegate to the
World Alliance of Reformed Churches in
Nairobi, Kenya. He retired in 1972 but con-
tinued to serve as interim minister at a number
of churches in California.

CHARLES LOUIS EIGELBACH, ’28, died
Sept. 12, 1990, in Hendersonville, N.C. He
was an electrical engineer with General Elec-
tric Corp. for 42 years and was a member of
the Reformed Presbyterian Church and the
Hendersonville Country Club.

EDMUND LEE GAMBLE, °29, professor
emeritus of chemistry at the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology, died Nov. 28, 1990, in
Hyannis, Mass. Gamble retired in 1970 after
36 years on the MIT faculty. He received his
doctorate from MIT in 1934 and lived in North
Falmouth, Mass.

CARL WILLIAM HAMILTON, ’29L, died
Jan. 2, 1991. Hamilton had served as a deputy
U.S. marshall in Roanoke, Va. He was also a
federal referee in bankruptcy for the Western
District of Virginia and a federal magistrate. As
an attorney in industry, he worked for the
Virginia Iron & Coal Co. and the Pittston Co.
He was a member of the Virginia Bar Associa-
tion and past president of the Wise County Bar
Association. Hamilton had been mayor of Wise,
Va., and was a past member of the town coun-
cil. He was a past president of the Wise Kiwanis
Club and a member of Wise Baptist Church,
where he served as deacon and trustee.

WALTER THOMAS SALE, ’31, retired
teacher, died Dec. 19, 1990, in Lexington, Ky.
He attended Bingham Military Institute in
Asheville, N.C., and Columbia University and
was a veteran of World War II. He taught school
in Beattyville, Ky., and Circleville, Ohio, and
was a member of the Church of Ascension in
Knoxville, Tenn.

W&L 51

ROBERT COVINGTON CONNER, ’32,
retired general contractor, died Sept. 23, 1990,
in Enterprise, Ala.

DAVID FREDERICK CROSSEN, ’32, a St.
Louis attorney for 50 years, died June 21, 1990.
Crossen earned his law degree from Washington
University in 1935 and served in the Army Air
Forces during World War II. He was for many
years a partner in the St. Louis law firm of
Walther, Ely, Saunders, and Leahy. He later
became a partner in the firm of Curtis, Detting,
Brackman, and Crossen. He served as vice
chairman and board member of the Conserva-
tion Federation of Missouri and was on the
Parks and Playground Board of St. Louis Coun-
ty. In 1947, he received the St. Louis Award
for outstanding civic service.

KEITH LEO MEYER, ’32, St. Petersburg,
Fla., attorney, died Dec. 19, 1990. He received
his law degree from the University of Florida
and was an attorney with the U.S. Treasury
Department for many years. He was an elder
in St. Petersburg’s First Presbyterian Church
and president of the local and state Ex-
change Clubs.

JOSEPH KITTREDGE VINSON, ’32, died
Nov. 9, 1990, in Houston. He was a Foreign
Service officer in Berlin, Karachi, and Naples
prior to and during World War II. Following the
war, Vinson returned to his boyhood home of
Houston, where he was a petroleum landman
for many years. During the Vietnam conflict,
he spent several years in that country as a
civilian administrator. He was a member of the
Houston Association of Petroleum Landmen
and the English-Speaking Union.

HENRY EDWARD ALLEN, ’34, retired State
Department official who was also known as a
speaker, teacher, and consultant on vegetable
gardening, died Nov. 29, 1990. Allen, who lived
in Bethesda, Md., began his career with the
State Department following his graduation from
W&L. Early assignments included service on
the U.S.-Mexican Border Commission and par-
ticipation on a trade delegation to Argentina.
From 1942 until 1946 he was assigned to the
commercial attache’s office in Mexico. He
returned to Washington and joined the office
of international conferences in the Bureau of In-
ternational Organization Affairs. His duties there
involved arranging administrative and logistical
details for international conferences. He retired
as program officer in 1972. Allen was a former
president of the Men’s Garden Club of Mont-
gomery County and received its horticulture
award in 1975. He wrote articles on home
vegetable gardening for several editions of the
garden club’s book, Successful Gardening in

52 W&L

Washington. A frequent speaker at garden club
meetings, he helped set up the master gardener
program at the University of Maryland’s Coop-
erative Extension Service. Washingtonian maga-
zine once referred to him as “Mr. Vegetable
of Washington.”

WILLIAM HAYWOOD MORELAND JR.,
'34, retired electrical engineer, died Aug. 23,
1990, in Newport News, Va. Moreland joined
the Newport News Shipbuilding Co. following
his graduation from W&L and was an engineer
there for 41 years. He retired in 1974. Moreland
was a charter member of the Hampton Roads
German Club.

ISAAC GRIER WALLACE JR., ’35, Charlotte
manufacturer's representative and electrical
engineer, died Oct. 31, 1990. Wallace studied
radar development at Harvard University and
Massachusetts Institute of Technology during
World War II. He retired as president of

’ Ranson Wallace and Co. in 1978. Wallace was

a member of Selwyn Avenue Presbyterian
Church, where he was an elder. He was also
a member of the Charlotte Rotary Club, the
Charlotte Engineers Club, and the Charlotte
Country Club. He was a U.S. Army veteran of
World War II and served in the Signal Corps
and the Pacific Theater. He was also a for-
mer scoutmaster.

JACK CONDUFF BONES, °36, died June
29, 1990.

WALTER GEORGE LEHR JR., ’37, partner
in Lehr Brothers investment firm in San An-
tonio, Texas, died Dec. 8, 1989. At W&L, he
was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa and Beta
Gamma Sigma, the honorary business fraterni-
ty. He was a past director and president of the
San Antonio Board of Realtors and the South
Texas Chapter 29 of the American Institute of
Real Estate Appraisers; a past director of the
Texas Association of Realtors and the Greater
San Antonio Chamber of Commerce; and an
active member of St. Luke’s Episcopal Church.

ALFRED PRESTON MOORE, ’37, ’39L,
retired treasurer and business manager of
Woodberry Forest School in Orange, Va., died
Nov. 25, 1990. Following his graduation from
W&L, Moore served on the staff of the Senate
Finance Committee under U.S. Sen. Carter
Glass. He then volunteered for military service,
was commissioned in the U.S. Marine Air Corps
in September 1941, and was sent to the South
Pacific theater. After being honorably dis-
charged as a major, he worked for three years
as a commercial pilot with the China National
Aviation Corp. He returned to Virginia and
joined Woodberry Forest School in 1950.
Moore was a member of the Virginia Society
of the Cincinnati, and he twice served as a

delegate from Virginia to the Democratic Na-
tional Convention. In addition to his 31-year
association with Woodberry Forest, he was one
of the founding board members for the
reorganization of Blue Ridge School in 1960 and
served as its board chairman from 1975 to 1981.
He also served on the board of Stuart Hall in
Staunton for 20 years. He was a board member
and later chairman of the National Bank of
Orange and was an honorary board member of
Jefferson Bankshares. Moore was a vestryman
of St. Thomas Episcopal Church in Orange. In
1981 he retired and moved to Charlottesville.

GEORGE E. SILLIK JR., ’37, of Baltimore,
died July 19, 1990. He held a law degree from
the University of Baltimore.

FILLMORE GILKESON WILSON, ’37, a
retired engineer, died Oct. 17, 1990, in Hous-
ton. Wilson was a South Carolina registered
consulting engineer, a former vice president of
J. E. Sirrine Co., and former chairman of the
board of R. J. Noonan Inc. of South Carolina.
Following his retirement, he was president of
Devotek Inc., a consulting engineering com-
pany. Wilson was a member of the Technical
Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry and
the San Jacinto Chapter of the Texas Society
of Professional Engineers. He served as a cap-
tain in the U.S. Army Air Corps during World
War II and also during the Korean conflict. He
was a communicant of St. Thomas Episcopal
Church in Houston.

HUGH PUTNAM AVERY, ’39, retired ad-
ministrator at the University of Houston-Clear
Lake, died Dec. 9, 1990. He spent nearly his
entire career in the field of personnel administra-
tion and worked with Lake Erie Engineering
Corp. in Buffalo, N.Y., Hewitt Robins Inc. in
Passaic, N.J., Sipp-Eastwood Corp. in Pater-
son, N.J., Leslie Co. in Lyndhurst, N.J., and
Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken,
N.J. He joined the University of Houston-Clear
Lake as director of institutional services in 1973.
He also served the university as personnel direc-
tor. Avery was active in local, state, and national
professional organizations throughout his career
and served as president of the national College
and University Personnel Association in 1972.
He received CUPA’s highest award, the Donald
E. Dickason Award for Outstanding and Distin-
guished Service, in 1981. Avery was a member
of the board of directors of the Ed White Youth
Center and a volunteer in Houston’s Meals
on Wheels Program. He also coordinated the
founding and development of the University of
Houston-Clear Lake Retirees Association. He
developed the institution’s program for recogni-
tion of service to the university by both staff
and faculty with the formation of the Distin-
guished Staff Service Award Program. In May
1990, this award was renamed in Avery's honor.

Bl ed Pasa ale

i i Mii ls

LESLIE DARR PRICE, ’40L, a lawyer in
Charleston, W.Va., for 50 years, died Dec. 7,
1990. Price graduated from West Virginia
Wesleyan College and was an Army veteran of
World War II. He was a director of the National
Bank of Commerce, South Charleston, and was
a member of the West Virginia and Kanawha
County bar associations. He was a law partner
of the late Sen. Chapman Revercomb. Price
was a member of the First United Methodist
Church of South Charleston and a church
trustee. He was a former Kanawha County com-
missioner of accounts, president of the West
Virginia Wesleyan Alumni Council, and chair-
man of the Gwinn Endowment Scholarship
Fund for the University of Charleston.

HAL BLANTON WATTERSON, ’40, a
longtime manager with E.I. du Pont de
Nemours & Co., died Aug. 23, 1990. After
receiving a bachelor of science degree from the
University of Tennessee in 1940, he went to
work for Du Pont. He retired from the com-
pany in 1982 after 41 years of service. During
World War II Watterson served in the U.S.
Navy for three years and was stationed in the
Caribbean and the Pacific theater.

ROBERT JAMES BLANDING, ’41, a retired
banker in East Lansing, Mich., died Oct.
28, 1990.

GEORGE KEITH McMURRAN, ’41, a retired
insurance executive in Newport News, Va., died
Sept. 28, 1990. He had been president and
chief executive officer of Bowen-McMurran In-
surance Inc. He served on the board of the area
Boys Club, was vice chairman of the local Red
Cross chapter and budget committee chairman
of the Peninsula United Way, and was presi-
dent of the Peninsula Arts Association and the
Warwick Rotary Club. He was a vestryman and
trustee of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church and
served as Protestant cochairman of the National
Conference of Christians and Jews. He was a
member of the James River Country Club,
the Lafayette Gun Club, and the Peninsula
Sports Club.

DR. JAMES FRANKLIN NORTON, ’41,
East Aurora, N.Y., physician, died Nov. 15,
1990, in Milwaukee. Norton graduated from Jef-
ferson Medical College in Philadelphia in 1945.
Following completion of his internship, he
served with the U.S. occupational forces in
Japan before entering general practice in East
Aurora. During his 42 years as a physician, he
never stopped making house calls. He practiced
obstetrics for 25 years and assisted with his
Patients’ surgeries until three years ago. In 1984
he was named Citizen of the Year by the East
Aurora Lions Club. He served as medical direc-
tor of the Aurora Lions Club and the Aurora
Park and Orchard Park Nursing Homes. Norton

was a member of the American Academy of
Family Practice, the American Medical Associa-
tion, and the Erie County Medical Society and
was on the faculty of the University of Buffalo
Medical School.

JAMES HUBERT PRICE JR., °41, former
paper salesman and realtor from Williamsburg.
Va., died Jan. 5, 1991. During his years at
Washington and Lee, he was a member of
Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Kappa Sigma
fraternity. He was a lieutenant commander in
the U.S. Navy and served in the Pacific during
World War II. He was a member of his local
Navy League. Price was legislative chairman of
the board of realtors in Sarasota, Fla., and was
active in the Republican Party of James City
County, Va. From 1956 to 1957 he was asso-
ciate alumni secretary at Washington and Lee.

CHARLES MILTON LANDRUM JR., ’42L,
Lexington, Ky., attorney and former president
of the Kentucky Bar Association, died June 12,
1990. He had practiced law in Fayette Coun-
ty, Ky., since 1942 and was a founding partner
in the firm Landrum & Shouse. He became
president of the 8,000-member Kentucky Bar
Association in 1982 and had been a member
of the association’s board of governors since
1974. He became president of the Fayette
County Bar Association in 1971. Landrum was
a member of the three-member Kentucky State
Board of Examiners, which administers the bar
examination, from 1978 to 1980. He was a
fellow in the International Academy of Trial At-
torneys and was a recipient of the Fayette Coun-
ty Bar Association’s Henry T. Duncan Award
for exemplary leadership, integrity, and profes-
sional conduct. Landrum was also national presi-
dent of the University of Kentucky Alumni
Association and was a member of the UK
Development Council. He served four years
with the U.S. Army during World War II.
Landrum was a member of Crestwood Chris-
tian Church, where he was an elder, board chair-
man, and Sunday School teacher.

DR. ALFRED LOUIS WOLFE JR., ’42, died
Nov. 5, 1990. He received his medical degree
from Boston University School of Medicine in
1945 and served in the U.S. Army Medical
Corps from 1946 to 1948. He retired to
Morehead City, N.C., in 1981.

JAMES HINTON WOOSLEY, ’42, former in-
surance executive and 69-year resident of Lake
Charles, La., died Jan. 8, 1991. A graduate of
New Mexico Military Institution, Woosley
served as an Air Force captain in World War
II. He was a former partner in the Terrell
Woosley Insurance Co. and was a member of
the Sons of the Revolution, First Baptist
Church, and the church Coastal Club, as well
as many Civic organizations in Lake Charles.

Woosley was involved with the Louisiana Boys’
Village, the Boy Scouts of America, and the
Louisiana Baptist Orphanage. He was a member
of the Rotary Club and was active in the Lake
Charles Chamber of Commerce. Woosley also
served on the YMCA Board of Directors for
10 years.

ROBERT HUTCHESON SEAL, °44, ’49L,
San Antonio, Texas, banker and community
leader, died Jan. 7, 1991, after a brief illness.
After attending law school, Seal moved to San
Antonio and began his banking career at Groos
National Bank. In 1978, he joined the National
Bank of Commerce as senior vice president. He
was a former board chairman, president, and
director of NBC Bank—San Antonio. At the
time of his death, he was a senior vice presi-
dent and director of National Bancshares Corp.
of Texas and a consultant to NCNB Texas in
San Antonio. He was a past president of the
San Antonio Clearing House. A native of Lex-
ington, Seal served on Washington and Lee’s
Commerce School Advisory Board. He was a
member of San Antonio’s First Presbyterian
Church for more than 40 years and served as
an elder and chairman of the board of deacons.
He was also moderator of the Presbytery del
Salvador and the Synod of Red River and was
a director of the San Antonio Presbyterian
Foundation. Seal was a past president of the San
Antonio Museum Association, the Exchange
Club, the Methodist Hospital Foundation, the
San Antonio Fiesta Commission, and the Bexar
Kiwanis Club. A member of the Texas Cavaliers
and the Order of the Alamo, Seal was also ac-
tive in the Greater San Antonio Chamber of
Commerce, the United Way, Southwest Re-
search Institute, the San Antonio Country Club,
the United Negro College Fund, and the Ecu-
menical Center for Religion and Health. He
served on the boards of Rhodes College,
Schreiner College, Trinity University, and the
Southwest Graduate School of Banking at
Southern Methodist University. Seal’s honors
included the 1982 Humanitarian Award, given
by the National Jewish Hospital; the 1984
Golden Deed Award, given by the Exchange
Club; the 1988 National Council of Christians
and Jews Brotherhood Award; and the 1989
Philanthropy Award of the San Antonio Associa-
tion of Fund Raising Executives.

JACK WHEELER BRUGH, ’45, died Dec. 19,
1990. As an anti-tank gunner in World War II,
he served in England, France, Belgium, Ger-
many and Czechoslovakia and escaped from a
German prison camp in 1945. He was award-
ed the American Theatre Operations Medal,
Purple Heart Decoration, Combat Infantry-
man’s Badge, Good Conduct Medal, and the
Victory Medal. After the war Brugh worked as
an accountant for Westinghouse Electric Corp.
in Atlanta.

W&L 53

WALTER HODGES WILLIAMS JR., °49, a
retired commercial real estate executive in Rich-
mond, died Sept. 26, 1990. He was a commer-
cial realtor and assistant vice president until his
retirement from Morton G. Thalhimer Co. Inc.
He was an active member of the Society of In-
dustrial Realtors, the Richmond First Club, the
Navy League, and First Presbyterian Church.
He served for eight years on the development
board of the University of Virginia’s graduate
school of business and was a past president of
the Virginia Society of Industrial Realtors. He
had served as editor of Richmond Realtor maga-
zine and was a recipient of the Omega Tau Rho
Medallion of Service, which recognizes contri-
butions to the real estate industry. He had also
been honored by the Society of Industrial Real-
tors and the Institute of Industrial Management.

DR. RICHARD GRAHAM LITTLEJOHN,
55, associate dean at the University of
California—San Francisco School of Medicine
and an administrator at the school for more than
20 years, died Oct. 3, 1990. Littlejohn grad-
uated from City College of New York in 1955
and received his master’s degree in business ad-
ministration from Dartmouth College in 1957.
In 1984, he received his Ph.D. in higher
education from the University of California—
Berkeley. Littlejohn served for seven years as
senior financial analyst at Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory, where he provided finan-
cial planning and control for a major physics pro-
gram with an annual budget of more than $100
million. He joined UCSF in 1969 as business
and fiscal officer at the medical school. In 1974,
he became associate dean for finance and plan-
ning, and in 1984, he was appointed associate
dean for administration. He also held several
teaching positions and was an adjunct lecturer
in health policy at UCSF from 1981 until his
death. From 1975 to 1977, he reorganized and
taught San Francisco State University’s CPA-
required course for the MBA program. He serv-
ed as national chairman of the Association of
American Medical Colleges in 1978-79.

LYNN MITCHELL CANE, ’56, ’58L, died
Feb. 28, 1990. He lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.

JOHN PARKER HILLS, ’60L, an attorney in
Annapolis, Md., died Feb. 22, 1990. He re-
ceived his undergraduate degree from Brown
University and was an attorney in Memphis,
Tenn., for several years, where he was a co-
founder of the city’s Environmental Action
Committee and served as state president of the
Tennessee Young Republicans. In 1970, he
moved to Washington, D.C., and joined the
U.S. Department of. Justice in the Pollution
Control Section of the Lands Division. Hills was
the senior trial attorney in several landmark en-
vironmental cases and was chief trial attorney
for the federal government in U.S. vs. Reserve

54 WE&L

Mining Co., in which the government won an
injunction against steel companies to end pollu-
tion of the drinking water in Duluth, Minn. In
1974, he was a senior staff member on the
President's Council of Environmental Quality.
He later formed his own law firm and practiced
in Prince George’s County and Annapolis. A lec-
turer and instructor for the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency nationwide, he was also pub-
lished in several professional journals. He was
a member of the Beltsville Rotary and served
on the board of Arundel Hospice.

EMIL JOSEPH SULZBERGER JR., ’61L,
Hampton, Va., lawyer and civic leader, died
Dec. 21, 1990. Sulzberger operated his own law
practice in the Phoebus, Va., area and was a
member of the Commonwealth Law Group. He
was president of the Hampton Heritage Foun-
dation and past president of the Phoebus Civic
Association, the Hampton Historical Society,
and the Phoebus Volunteer Fire Co. He was
a former chairman of the Hampton Wetlands
Board and the Hampton Electoral Board. He
served on the Peninsula board of the American
Cancer Society and directed the 1970 Cancer
Crusade for the Peninsula. Sulzberger was a
member of the Peninsula Advisory Board of the
Salvation Army, the Tidewater regional board
of directors of the Armed Services YMCA, the
advisory board of the Peninsula Drug Rehabili-
tation Service, the Selective Service Local
Claims Adjudication Board, Casemate Museum
Foundation, and Hampton Juvenile Court
Citizens’ Advisory Council. He was also a hear-
ing officer of the Virginia Department of Com-
merce. Sulzberger was a member of the Monitor
Lodge in Hampton, the Khedive Temple of the
Shrine of Norfolk, the American Legion, the
Hampton Yacht Club, Ducks Unlimited, and
the Historical and Archaeological Society of Fort
Monroe. He was a member of the local and state
bar associations, the Virginia State Bar news
media relations committee, Virginia Trial Law-
yers Association, and the Peninsula Estate Plan-
ning Council. He was a member of First
Presbyterian Church, where he served as an
elder. Sulzberger was a 1955 graduate of the
University of Virginia and a Marine veteran of
the Korean War.

GAYLE RANDOLPH REED, ’62L, Mitchell,
Neb., attorney, died Sept. 29, 1990. A graduate
of Grinnell College and the University of
Nebraska, Reed earned a Bronze Star Medal
for his service in Vietnam. He remained in the
U.S. Air Force Reserves as a lieutenant colonel
and was a member of the Kiwanis Club and the
American Legion.

HENRY DARNELL LEWIS, ’81L, Wash-
ington, D.C., attorney, died Nov. 22, 1990.
Lewis graduated with honors from Morgan State

University in 1977 and went on to law school
at W&L, where he was managing editor of the
Law Review and treasurer of the Black Law
Students Association. He was the author of
several plays, including 7he Cleansing Waters and
The A Cappella Angels, produced at Washington's
Source Theatre in 1987 and 1989. Mean Spell
was his first published work of fiction, and it
won him honorable mention in the Larry Neal
Awards in 1988. He was employed as an at-
torney for the Office of Special Counsel.

MARINE CAPT. DAVID R. HERR JR.,’84,
died Feb. 4, 1991, when the UH-1 Huey
helicopter he was flying crashed in Saudi Arabia.
Military authorities said the accident seemed to
be caused by mechanical failure and was not
combat-related. Herr is the only known Wash-
ington and Lee casualty in Operation Desert
Storm. He grew up in Forth Worth, Texas, and
attended that city’s Country Day School, where
he earned 11 varsity letters in cross country,
soccer, and baseball. He was a geology major
at W&L and was commissioned a second lieute-
nant upon his graduation. He was then trained
to fly Huey and Cobra helicopters. Herr had
been based at Camp Pendleton in Oceanside,
Calif., until last August, when he was among
the first Marines sent to Saudi Arabia.

 

Friends

 

 

 

MILDRED DUNLAP COE died Jan. 9, 1991,
in Lexington. She attended Hollins College and
graduated as a registered nurse from Stuart Cir-
cle Hospital in Richmond. For a number of
years she served as a housemother at the Phi
Gamma Delta and Kappa Sigma fraternities at
Washington and Lee.

MARY NELL LEWIS STARLING died Dec.
19, 1990, in Lexington. A graduate of Alabama
College (now the University of Montevallo), she
came to Lexington in 1942 when her husband,
the late James H. Starling, joined Washington
and Lee’s faculty. Professor Starling taught
biology at W&L for the next 41 years and was
coordinator of the University’s premedical
studies program. He died in 1987. From 1942
to 1945 Mrs. Starling was associated with the
Army School of Personnel Services, which was
located on the W&L campus. She eventually
became administrative assistant to the school’s
commandant, Col. William H. Quarterman, and
was awarded the Meritorious Civilian Service
Emblem by the war department. In 1957 Mrs.
Starling went to work for the Sigma Nu national
fraternity, which had just moved its head-
quarters to Lexington. She retired in 1975.

 

|

CLARK R. MOLLENHOFF, professor of
journalism at Washington and Lee and a Pulitzer
Prize-winning investigative reporter, died March
2, 1991, in Lexington after a long battle with
cancer. He was 69.

For more than 20 years, Mollenhoff was one
of the most widely known and respected in-
vestigative journalists in Washington, D.C. His
loud, deep voice which made his presence
known at news conferences earned him the
nickname “The Boomer,” and the name came
with him when he joined Washington and Lee’s
faculty in 1976.

“We called him “The Boomer,’ though not
necessarily to his face,” recalled John Cleghorn,
’84, during a memorial service in Lexington for
Mollenhoff. “But I can assure you that a
nickname has never been more affectionately,
or more respectfully, assigned.

“For those of us who aspired to be jour-
nalists, he was the real thing.”

A native of Burnside, lowa, Mollenhoff
graduated from Webster City Junior College in
1941. He began his journalistic career the very
same year, while he was a full-time law student
at Drake University. As a reporter for the Des
Moines Register, Mollenhoff covered the opera-
tions of city, county, and state government and
the field offices of federal agencies and courts.
He remained with the paper’s parent company,
Cowles Publications, until 1976.

Mollenhoffss articles connecting Teamster
leader Jimmy Hoffa to organized crime helped
win him a Pulitzer Prize in 1958. During his
career he received numerous other honors, in-
cluding two Sigma Delta Chi awards, the Ray-
mond Clapper and Heywood Broun Memorial
awards, and the National Headliner award for
magazine writing. In 1975 he made Washingto-
nian magazine’s list of 10 best investigative
reporters in the nation’s capital. He was also the
recipient of six honorary degrees.

Mollenhoff left journalism for a brief period
during the first Nixon administration to serve
as “presidential ombudsman,” but he returned
to the field in 1970 and became Washington
bureau chief for Cowles Publications.

He was the author of 11 books, including
Tentacles of Power (1965), a history of labor
racket investigations; 7e Man Who Pardoned
Nixon (1976), an assessment of Gerald Ford's
presidency; and The President Who Failed: Carter
Out of Control (1980), an analysis of scandals and
failures in the Carter administration. His most
recent book, Atanasoff: Forgotten Father of the
Computer, was published in 1988. A book of his
poetry will be issued by lowa State University
Press this fall.

Mollenhoff was a U.S. Navy veteran of
World War II. He held a Nieman fellowship at
Harvard University in 1949, and in 1960 he
used an Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship to
study labor organizations in Europe, Africa, the
Middle East, and Russia.

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas, birth-
days, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair goes

to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$190 - Not including freight charges

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$170 - Not including freight charges

 

 

The Arm Chair and Boston
Rocker are also available in
natural dark pine stain, with
crest in five colors, at the same
price as the black arm chair and
rocker.

 

 

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges will
be billed after delivery. Estimates for those charges are available upon request. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,

if known, for the delivery location.

 

W&L

55

 

And Furthermore

EDITOR:

On an elevator going to the gym in the Ritz
Carlton Hotel in Chicago, I recently heard the
following: “What year did you graduate?” My
reply was, “’61.”

And so began a long conversation with
James Ruscick, an attorney and graduate of the
law class of 1953, all because of a W&L T-shirt.
If my statistics class had penetrated, I could give
you the odds, but I'll leave that to the pros.

WiiuiaM R. JouNsTOoN, 61
Far Hills, N.J.

EDITOR:

Some years ago when I was taking chemistry
under Dr. Desha, there was a syndicated
newspaper columnist named O. O. Mclntyre.
Part of McIntyre’s column one day contained
something like this: “While thumbing through
the pages of “Who's Who’ the other day, I came
upon the name Lucius Junius Desha and im-
mediately my mouth watered for a nice ripe
juicy peach.”

When the good doctor went to his office
next morning there were at least six copies of
this article pasted (no pressure tape then) to his
office door. I remembered and when Dr. Desha
retired years later, in a letter | reminded him
of this as well as everything funny that had hap-
pened during my four years under him. His
answer stated that he had received many let-
ters upon retirement but he laughed the most
at mine.

Instead of being so sober each issue could
not the alumni magazine spare four or five
column inches for a tiny bit of humor now
and then?

AsA JANNEY, '29
Lincoln, Va.

EDITOR:

I was disappointed to read that Washington

and Lee University is one of the 50 colleges
and universities in the process of terminating
ROTC. I was even more disappointed to read
that the reason is that too few W&L students
enter the program to justify the Army’s
investment.

In the years that I served as a W&L ROTC
officer in the infantry, I learned that short-
service officers with a quality liberal arts educa-
tion make a much-needed contribution to the
Army. They, not the careerists, are the ones
who have the courage to speak up to overbear-

56 W&L

 

ing senior commanders. They are the ones who
contribute intellectual depth to arguments about
military ethics. They are the _ intellectual
community's best opportunity to influence
the military.

Recruitment apparently fell off because
there is no longer a draft to inspire students to
seek commissions in lieu of risking two years
as a private. Admit it or not, W&L is a bastion
of America’s privileged youth. The University
should have exercised its leadership to have per-
suaded a reasonable number of students to see
commissioned service as a fulfillment of Robert
E. Lee’s ideal of our duty to serve the nation.
Lee abhorred war and expressed his regret for
having had to be a soldier in order to go to col-
lege, but he did not hesitate to lead Virginia’s
soldiers when they needed his skill.

It is unconscionable that the members of
Congress are reported to number only two of
their sons or daughters among the troops of
Desert Storm. It is almost equally bad that
W&L will soon cease to contribute its graduates
to provide our privates with enlightened leader-
ship. Noblesse oblige may be out of fashion,
and we can debate the need for war, but the
fact remains that it is reprehensible for the privi-
leged classes to choose profit in safety while
their fellow citizens suffer and die without their
educated contributions to victory.

JouHNn AsHsy Morton, *60
Columbia, §.C.

EDITOR:

Mr. R. J. Thomas, 90, says he “doesn’t get
it” [“And Furthermore,” Winter 1990]. He
wants to know what “these people” (I think he
means me in particular) are complaining about.
Mr. Thomas says that “it’s really making [him]
mad.” Now I don’t want Mr. Thomas to be
angry with me. I'd rather have a Wahoo for an
enemy—whoops, excuse me; this is 1991—an
“Eastern Mennonite” for an enemy than another
W&L man or woman. So, Mr. Thomas, I’m
holding out my olive branch. I hope you'll ac-
cept it. Let’s see where we agree.

First of all, the idea of W&L as “a horrible
place” is, I'm sure, unthinkable to both of us.
I certainly didn’t believe it when I was an
undergraduate. And every time I've returned
(yes, Mr. Thomas, I’ve been back to Liberty
Hall) I still think it's Camelot.

My reference to Goshen was meant as a
metaphor for a more innocent time. Sorry for
the confusion. I realize Goshen is still there. I
know you'll miss it. So did I. You seem to want
plain talk. So here it is. Unvarnished. ‘To many

of us who went to W&L, whether we graduated
in the 40s, 50s, 60s, whatever, the Universi-
ty holds a special place in our hearts. (What this
old duffer is referring to is the center or source
of emotions.) I hope it will remain so. Not as
I knew it. That would be a travesty. Institutions
are living organisms with a life cycle all their
own. But as a special place for students in every
decade. The fact that you also feel this way is
the best news I’ve read in “And Furthermore.”
Seriously.

So what's my beef? Just this: In the last
decade there are signs that W&L means to
survive—not by emphasizing its uniqueness, the
qualities that make it special—but by aping
other colleges and universities. | mentioned
Hampden-Sydney and Sewanee (the Universi-
ty of the South) and I could have included
Davidson in my last letter, because these are
three institutions that have managed to preserve
their character and ethos in volatile times.

Mr. Thomas claims that “Washington and
Lee is 10 times better than anything it has been
in the past.” Again, at the risk of sounding like
a fuddy-duddy, how does he know? For him,
the past was “a single-sex high school.”

I’m encouraged that in 1991, when most Ivy
League institutions have become shallow im-
itations of their former selves, W&L, to a large
degree, has maintained its academic integrity.
Yet, we still need to be vigilant. Change is often
good. But for every gain there is an inevitable
loss. So let's at least know the price we
are paying.

One final comment and I’m out of here. Mr.
Thomas seems to think more and more peo-
ple know about W&L. Could be, though Id still
argue that it’s one of the best-kept secrets in
academia. Maybe we want it this way. Maybe
we don’t mind educating people at parties: “No,
its mot Washington and Jefferson. We never
went to the Rose Bowl. No, William and Mary
is in Williamsburg, etc.”

Last November several of us alumni attend-
ed the W&L-Wesleyan basketball game in
Middletown, Conn. The father of a Wesleyan
player sat next to me in the stands. During the
game he asked, “Where’s W&L, anyway?
New Jersey?”

“No,” I said, “it’s in Virginia. Lexington. A
town very much like Middletown.” He thought
for a moment, then made a sweeping gesture
with his hand. “You folks must have gotten up
real early to drive all the way up here.” I didn't.
But I would have. Even though in my day Wash-
ington and Lee may have been 10 times worse.

S. Scorr Wuippce, '58
Madison, Conn.

ie ai

il aa i i i cel cll,

i aii Mi

iia Dt nite

si iii ii a it ill

a i i iil ail a cli ie

 

HONORING

THE ACADEMIC AND LAW CLASSES

Eo 4 1946 9.54 1956 ae)
19 66 Bess] 1976 1981 1986
May 9, 10, 11

 

 

 

 

 

Thursday, May 9

Reunion Keynote Address
Guest Speaker: A. Stevens Miles, ’51,
Rector of the Board of Trustees

Reception at the Alumni House

Kriday, May 10

Reunion Seminars

“Robert E. Lee: Soldier and Educator”

“Understanding the Muslim Attitude
Toward the West”

“Treasures of Yesterday and Today:
A Stroll Across Campus”

“Superpowers in the New International Order”
“W&L Today”

Cocktails with the Faculty:
Honoring C. Westbrook Barritt, 43; Milton
Colvin; Jay D. Cook Jr., °44; Sidney M. B.
Coulling, °46; Henry Sharp; and B.S.
Stephenson, °42, all of whom will retire at the
end of the 1990-91 session

Entertainment by the Johnny McClenon Big
Band

Buffet Dinner

Reunion Dance featuring the band Spectrum,
whose repertoire covers all of your favorites
from Glenn Miller to Motown and beyond.

Saturday, May 11

Annual Joint Meeting of the Undergraduate and
Law Alumni Associations in Lee Chapel

Picnic Luncheon
Class Banquets and Parties

Champagne and Fireworks

 

 

The Washington and Lee University
Alumni Magazine
Lexington, Virginia 24450

   
 
  
 
  

NON-PROFIT ORG.
U.S.POSTAGE
PAID

PERMIT NO. 6238
SO els

 

 

