   

The Washington and Lee University Alumni Magazine

SUMMER 1993

a

    

a
i

b

BRN AUS
Dean Leyburn Remembered
mans Revisited

7 a
es
S
_ _*

 

Mf

Coolin’ off in Buffalo Creek

is a warm-weather rithal for

Washipgton and lyee stadents
making th® trip TSP ol TTS

Pe bs

a

”
s
=
®
=
<
-
2
®
a
°
Sg
°
£
a

 

PEAT UNS

14 /Remembering the Renaissance Man.
As dean, James Graham Leyburn changed the course of W&L academia nearly

half a century ago, and the University Library is being named in his memory.

16 / The Dirt on Zollmans.

Its parties are legendary, if not always memorable.
‘The story behind the fabled field of drinks.

21 / Placement, Everyone!
A science fiction writer, a public servant, a truck driver

and a rock ’n’ roll band—and they all have a W&L degree.
24 / Un Film de W&L.

It took seven years, three producers, and a first-time director,

but 7he Foreign Student is headed for the big screen.

DEPARTMENT]

2 / From the Alumni President.

Mason New outlines goals for the coming alumni year.

3 / Letters.
Some free advice for the W&L Spectator, readers’ dog tales;

and words of encouragement for the brothers Dunn.

6 / The Colonnade.

Commencement and baccalaureate services return to the great outdoors;

support builds for the science facilities; and Sonok/ect airs its differences.

30 / The Generals’ Report.
With a handful of ODAC titles in spring sports, it doesn’t get much better
than this. Also: Wiemi and Lisa put the W&L back in lacrosse.

34 /W&L Law.

Dean Randall P. Bezanson announces plans to step down; the University fields

its sixth ABA president; and Lewis Powell deals with a couple of birds.

36 / Alumni News.

Four new names join the Athletic Hall of Fame. Also: A look back at

reunion weekend; and a Lynchburg Citation for “Charlie Mac.”

40 / In General.

What W&L institution just turned 40? You'd better sit down for this one.

41 / Class Notes.

Including visits with the dean of Atlanta public relations; a reformed

mountain climber; and the Memphis lawyer who’s testing Tom Cruise.

On the Cover: German actor Marco Hofschneider (Europa, Europa)
portrays Frenchman Philippe Labro 58 in the long-awaited film
of Labro’s Foreign Student. Photo by Eve Morra.

On the Back: Checking the skies for filming in May.

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely °73.

OZ Wacuixgton AND LEE UNIVERSITY

A. Stevens Miles Jr. 51, Rector
John D. Wilson, President

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC.
OFFICERS

Mason T. New ‘62

President (Richmond, Va.)

Robert K. Wittpenn ‘82

Vice President (Peapack, N.J.)

James D. Farrar Jr. ‘74

Secretary and Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

Robert W.H. Mish Ill ‘76

Associate Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

DIRECTORS

Michael D. Armstrong *77 (Atlanta, Ga.)

R.K. Barton III °63 (Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.)
T. Talbott Bond °51 (Baltimore, Md.)

E. Neal Cory II °77 (Louisville, Ky.)

Ben S. Gambill Jr. °67 (Nashville, Tenn.)

J. Michael Jenkins III °64 (Montgomery, Ala.)
Robert S. Keefe °68 (New York, N.Y.)

H. Drake Leddy °71 (San Antonio, Texas)
Henry “Skip” Nottberg III °71 (Kansas City, Mo.)
William J. Russell Jr. °57 (Palm Beach, Fla.)
Alexa A. Salzman ‘89 (San Francisco, Calif.)
Jackson R. Sharman III °83 (Washington, D.C.)
Hatton C.V. Smith °73 (Birmingham, Ala.)

J. Frank Surface Jr. °60 (Jacksonville, Fla.)

J.E. “Jet” Taylor IIL 84 (Walnut Creek, Calif.)
James M. Turner Jr. °67, °71L. (Roanoke, Va.)

H. William Walker Jr. "68, °71L (Miami, Fla.)
Donald W. Weir Jr. °72 (Shreveport, La.)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
OFFICERS

Charles B. Tomm ‘68, ‘75L
President (Jacksonville, Fla.)
James C. Treadway Jr. ‘67L
Vice President (New York, N.Y.)

LAW COUNCIL

Charles M. Berger *68L (Charlotte, N.C.)
Alfred J.T. Byrne °65, 68L (Washington, D.C.)
Robert M. Couch °78, ’82L (Birmingham, Ala.)
William R. Goodell *80L (Atlanta, Ga.)
Theodore D. Grosser *77L (Cincinnati, Ohio)
Robin P. Hartmann °71L (Dallas, Texas)
Milton T. Herndon ‘56L (Charleston, W.Va.)
Carol L. Hoshall *83L (Alexandria, Va.)

James W. Jennings Jr. °65, °72L (Roanoke, Va.)
John D. Klinedinst *71, °78L (San Diego, Calif.)
Thomas M. Millhiser °81L (Richmond, Va.)
Dana C. Petersen '82L (Baltimore, Md.)

The Hon. W. Ray Price *78L (Jefferson City, Mo.)
W. Bryce Rea Jr. *41L (Vienna, Va.)

David D. Redmond °66, *69L (Richmond, Va.)
B. Cary Tolley II *78L (Darien, Conn.)
Elizabeth Turley *80L (Chicago, Ill.)

Patricia A. Van Allan *80L (Houston, Texas)
John A. Wolf 69, °72L (Baltimore, Md.)
Thomas K. Wotring *75L (Bethesda, Md.)

From the Alumni President

New Year’s Resolutions

The Alumni Board of Directors will be concentrat-
ing on three major areas this year: (1) improving com-
munications with your chapter leadership in order to
broaden alumni interest in all chapter activities; (2)
emphasizing the importance of increasing alumni par-
ticipation in the Annual Fund, which is so vital to the
operating health of Washington and Lee; (3) looking
for ways to assist the Alumni Fraternity Council as it
continues its efforts to fully implement the Fraternity
Renaissance Program; and (4) working with the Law
Council to better coordinate the goals of both the law
and undergraduate constituencies.

The first two topics have much in common. Improved communications between
the Alumni Board and our chapter presidents should result in better-organized, more
effective alumni chapters. And better communication will provide more opportunities
to talk about and encourage participation in the Annual Fund.

No, the chapter events will not become fundraisers. At the same time, we should
not be shy about educating alumni of the importance of participation in the Annual
Fund. Unlike its peer institutions, which have annual-giving percentages in the mid-
40s, Washington and Lee has for years now hovered around the 37 percent mark. We
believe that all alumni who love W&L and all who believe in the role that private lib-
eral arts colleges and universities play in our society should participate in the Annual
Fund. Your participation, regardless of the dollar amount, makes a difference.

Our third goal—support of the Alumni Fraternity Council and the Fraternity
Renaissance program—is important because we believe all alumni who participated
in fraternity life at W&L should know of the important role that the AFC plays. The
AFC consists of representatives from all house corporations and seeks to establish
goals and principles for the fraternities, to secure alumni participation in support of
the fraternities, and to provide communication between the fraternities and alumni
via the Inter-Fraternity Council. As the fraternity renovation work draws to a close,
we must renew our resolve to maintain the health and vitality of W&L’s entire Greek
system. We must be mindful of the needs of the sororities and do all we can to further
the growth and continued success of the Panhellenic System as well. ‘This cannot be
accomplished without alumni interest and involvement.

Finally, I also plan to work closely with Charlie ‘Tomm °68, ’75L, the new presi-
dent of the Law Alumni Association, to better coordinate the objectives of the under-
graduate and law school constituencies. All alumni, undergraduate and law, have spe-
cial perspectives on W&L and it is important that we recognize these viewpoints.

Meanwhile, Robert K. Wittpenn 82 has been elected vice president of the Alumni
Association for the 1993-1994 year. Bob is the chairman of our chapter development
committee which is largely responsible for creating our improved chapter communi-
cations program. He will play an integral role in assisting us achieve our objectives.

I look forward to representing you as your president and, if you are not already

 

. . ° ° ° . ;
active, I ask that you consider becoming more involved in Washington and Lees
alumni activities. “here are many personally rewarding ways to serve your a@/ma mater.
Please contact your alumni chapter leaders and give us an opportunity to show you.

Mason ‘Il. New ’62
President, WEIL. Alumni Association

—

Letters

Spectator Sport

| have just received a copy of the
Washington and Lee Spectator, the first I
have ever seen. It was sent to me, along
with all other alumni I gather, as a pro-
motional venture—an attempt to garner
financial support and subscriptions. ‘The
student publishers tout the magazine as
an alternative and supplement to the
administration-controlled Alumni
Magazine which, according to the
Spectator, presents a sanitized version of
what is happening at W&L.

Now, | would not give money to the
Spectator under any circumstances
because | find its politics utterly offen-
sive personally. Nonetheless, I support
its right to publish the ideas of its staff
and contributors. | do hope, however,
that no one, especially my fellow alum-
ni, will view this publication as repre-
sentative of W&L education standards
or rhetorical skills. ‘The spelling, punc-
tuation, grammar, and diction evident in
the issue | read was little above the
level demonstrated by my remedial
writing students at schools far lower on
the academic ladder than W&L. I trust
none of the writers and editors are
English or journalism majors. If they
were my students, | would be embar-
rassed by the quality of their writing
even if | agreed with their positions—
possibly even more embarrassed if I
thought they were spokesmen (all the
authors and most of the editors were
male) for my views.

Whatever its failings as a forum for
ideas and the free exchange of ideas, the
Alumni Magaxine—which, after all, is a
house organ, as all its readers doubtless-
ly understand—at least its writing is rel-
atively correct (and I don’t mean “politi-
cally correct,” a favorite derogation of
the Spectator). From an academic stand-
Point, that is no minor consideration.

My advice for the Spectator..1) Don’t
Waste your funds on a tenfold increase
'N publication to blanket an alumni
Many of whom may not share your poli-

tics; do a little market research and win-
now your mailing list. 2) ‘Take the Uni-
versity’s freshman composition course
again, or hire a reliable copy editor.

Richard E. Kramer °69
New York

B.C. (Before Charlie)

The article “Big Dogs on Campus”
(Spring) is (excuse the expression) a
howl, but I don’t see any dogs men-
tioned in the years before 1949, when
Stew Epley was a senior. He did not
comment on campus dogs in the *40s,
but perhaps he is tired of the subject.

‘To go back to the early 1930s, the
biggest dog on the campus at the time
was Satan, an English Bull owned by a
prominent student; both were noted for
their meanness. Satan was trained to
bark at a dean named Benjamin De Le
Warr Easter (widely referred to as
“Cutie Easter”), a 19th century gentle-
man in his attire as well as in his courtly
manner. He walked with a pronounced
limp, made more noticeable because he
usually wore a broad-brimmed floppy
hat and a Prince Albert coat down to his
knees so that he flapped as he walked,
making himself particularly vulnerable
to Satan’s bluster.

‘The barking attacks became increas-
ingly annoying to Dean Easter, so one
day when Satan was unusually ferocious,
the dean pulled a pistol big as a hawg-
leg out from under his Prince Albert and
shot Satan dead, right on the front cam-
pus. Satan had previously survived
being run over by several cars, but this
.44 caliber was too much for him.

Prior to Christmas 1934, the law
school was in a gray stone building at
the same site later occupied by ‘Tucker
Hall, completed in 1936. The older
building had only two classrooms, and
there was one gentle dog whose name I
don’t remember that regularly attended
the same law classes I went to, although
his ownership was not claimed by any-
one in my class. He did not pay very
close attention—he slept most of the
time—but just a couple of minutes
before the bell was to ring, he would

wake up, go to the door, and wait for
someone to let him out. Usually this
would be a student, but sometimes it
was the professor, who would continue
his lecture during the letting-out inter-
val. The dog never bothered to say
“Thank you.”

No doubt there are many canine
alumni before and after Satan and the
law school’s mascot. Perhaps this essay
will bring on a few more recollections—
if the subject hasn’t already been
dogged to death.

Thomas D. Anderson ?34L

Houston

‘Thanks for the very amusing and
interesting articles on “Big Dogs on
Campus.” ‘They reminded me of my
own experience in buying a “purebred”
puppy from Herb the Dog Man some-
where around 1935-36. It looked like a
Boston terrier, but what sticks in my
memory was that I paid $2 for the dog
and $3 more for a license and harness!

He was a tough canine, as he demon-
strated by surviving a brush with a car
outside the Sigma Nu house, where |
lived. Shortly thereafter, | gave him to
the fraternity butler-—much to the relief
of our housemother.

William C. Wilbur °37
St. Petersburg, Fla.

Et Tu, Bruno?

As a dog owner whose animal was a
regular fixture at the law school from
1979 through 1981, I was privileged to
attend W&L during the tenure of
“Bruno the Wonder Dog.” I must cor-
rect for the record, however, Kevin
Gray’s misleading statement that Bruno
never “bit anybody—not at Washington
and Lee.” In fact, as several of those
who amused themselves pitching pen-
nies, playing Putt-Putt, cards, etc., can
attest, Bruno served as the punishment
for individuals unfortunate enough to
lose at a game of chance.

Bruno, you see, intensely disliked
dancing or any other activity involving

the rapid movement of the lower
extremities. If you walked past Bruno at
a fast shuffle, chances are you would get
a nip at your heels.

We soon learned that it was great fun
to require the loser of a coin-tossing con-
test, for example, to be relegated to the
“penalty box,” i.e., the small, enclosed
area next to the vending machines and
break room. ‘he unfortunate individual
would be induced, through various
threats and taunts, to “dance” for one
minute while locked in that enclosed
space with Bruno.

While there were no serious injuries
inflicted, I can assure you that Bruno
invariably reacted as we thought he
would. It made for a very entertaining
diversion.

I must also confess to being slightly
disappointed that my own dog, Shelby,
did not receive some ink. In addition to
being, without question, the most popu-
lar dog on the law school campus,
Shelby had the brains and determina-
tion to avoid the clutches of the dog
warden.

During the brief period when the dog
warden patrolled the law school campus,
Shelby avoided him through a variety of
ingenious maneuvers. During one such
instance, with the dog warden in full
pursuit down the road leading to Lewis
Hall, a fellow law student slowed down
her car, opened the door, and Shelby
jumped in, to be whisked away to safe-

ty.

Buckner Wellford ’81L
Memphis, Tenn.

Good Breeding

While perusing the latest issue of the
Alumni Magazine with my pal, Larry
Gumprich °80, we came across your trib-
ute to Charlie Makinson (“The Ballad
of Charlie Makinson”). A purebred
English springer spaniel myself, | want-
ed to compliment Dick Anderson for
capturing the essence of the breed in his
feature on Charlie. |

As a young bitch of only two years, |
can only imagine with great envy the
glorious life that Charlie led in Lexing-

ton. At the risk of seeming immodest,
Charlie strikes me as the quintessential
springer spaniel—a product of good
breeding full of personality, energy, and
(with the exception of his forays to
VMI) possessing exceptional taste and
judgment regarding his affiliations.

Charlie certainly was a “man for all
seasons;” perhaps one season I shall be
lucky enough to frolic with a modern-
day Charlie.

Cassie Gumprich

Richmond, Va.

A Shot in the Dark

In reading the Fall 1992 Alumni
Magazine, | noted with interest the arti-
cle “W&L heroes honored in Hall of
Fame ceremony.” It reminded me that
one of W&L’s most competitive and
successful sports of the °50s and *60s—
the rifle team—has yet to be recognized
with an inductee into the Hall of Fame.

Having lettered several times in the
sport that has been so clearly left unrec-
ognized, I felt obligated to bring this to
your attention and to describe the dedi-
cation that it took to excel in this sport
and the level of competition the teams
experienced.

My roommate at W&L, Holt Mer-
chant, would always look at me askance
and with some ridicule in his eyes when
I would say it was time to go practice at
VMI. This perturbed me because all he
had to do for his cross-country practice
was to put on a pair of shorts and shoes
and run out the door. A half-hour later,
he was finished. (Occasionally he had to
care for his gear by sprinkling a little
wintergreen on his jockstrap.) By con-
trast, | had to spend hours each day
cleaning and preparing my gear before
each practice, lug the 20 pounds of
equipment to the deep dark recesses of
the VMI stadium (by foot my freshman
year) and practice many hours under the
watchful eye of Coach Matthews, an
Army sergeant, strict disciplinarian, and
profuse writer for IV shows.

This team sport took controlled
nerves of steel, honed breathing skills
only practiced by the House of Sinanju,

excruciating hours of conditioning and
controlled use of the flexor digitorum pro-

fundus and extensour indicts, the use of

one unblinking eye for minutes at a
time, and hours of staying motionless jpn
four different positions (if you moved at
all, Coach Matthews would say yoy
looked like a palm tree in a hurricane),
Unlike other sports at W&L, drinking
was strictly prohibited during the sea-
son. A case of the shakes would result in
immediate dismissal from the team. It js
such an exacting and highly skilled
sport, that several teams participate for
the United States in both the summer
and winter Olympics.

Instead of engaging the very small
college circuit of such schools as Hamp-
den-Sydney or Mary Washington, our
teams engaged nationally ranked power-
houses and NCAA Division I schools in
our sport: West Virginia, Wake Forest,
Georgetown, Army, and Navy.

Overlooking such standouts as Iry
Ebaugh, Roger Holden, Carter Fox,
Dave Auld, and Ashby Morton must
have helped contribute to the demise of
this great sport at Washington and Lee.
Without recognition and without a
member of the student body having
ever attended a match or, for that mat-
ter, ever having heard of the rifle team,
recruiting probably became impossible.
But these wrongs could be corrected
and maybe the sport could even be res-
urrected (it is now a coed sport at many
colleges). Give recognition to one of
W&L’s great team sports by nominating
a former member of one of W&L’s great
rifle teams for the Hall of Fame.

Robert K. Park Il ’61
Belleair Beach, Fla.

Well Dunn!

Hearty congratulations on the maga-
zine’s new and masterful format. It
lends itself to a far more interesting
publication than has been the case in
the past.

I was impressed with many of the
articles but the one that surprised me
most was the ongoing efforts of the
Dunn twins to establish a closer interac-

—

tive relationship between two such fine,
‘ndividualistic schools as \ MI and W &L
through the Preston Society (~ I win
Brothers, and Good Neighbors”). May
they eycceed beyond their wildest

dreams!

John GC. White "AOL
Naples, Fla.

The Face of AIDS

|.ast November I had the honor of
addressing the W&L community on
AIDS. | spoke of five men who have
died and one who is currently HIV-posi-
tive, and | want to express my apprecia-
tion and gratitude to the alumni and
families who contributed so much by
way of their thoughts and memories
about their loved ones. With their help,
my task of evoking the human and trag-
ic face of AIDS was made easier, and I
was touched and moved by their open-
ness. Beyond the biographical informa-
tion provided, their deep and abiding

ones was made poignantly evident.
While never intending to pursue any
project beyond the speech, I have
reconsidered this at the encouragement
of others. [here are some who would
like to Know the impact that AIDS has
had on W&L, and accordingly, I am
making myself available to collect infor-
mation and write the life stories of oth-
ers who have died from HIV infection.
Families, alumni, and companions
may write me at: Dr. Robert Carrere,
146A Manetto Hill Road, Suite 202,
Plainview, NY 11803-1310. I ask that
they provide the name of the loved one,
any memories they wish to share, and a
telephone number. (I will speak with
them further at a later date.) It would be
helpful if they would let me know two
things: do they give permission for the
loved one to be honored at a memorial,
Should one ever be developed, and
Would they prefer the actual name, first
Name only, or a pseudonym be used.

Bob Carrere ’72

Plainview, N.Y.

Editor’s Note

The winter issue of the A/umni
Magazine of Washington and Lee contained
a letter from Alan Weber °53 proposing
the establishment of a gay and lesbian
alumni association at W&L. Weber’s
letter generated three replies to the
magazine—from Erick H. Rock °90,
Charles G. Gilmore °39, and Gilbert
Dale Cornelius *56—all of which were
edited for publication in the spring
issue. (A fourth came in after the maga-
zine had gone to press.)

‘Those letters have generated a flood
of mail in turn. A number of readers
took the magazine to task for printing
the “vitriol” of Rock’s and Gilmore’s
positions; others wrote to refute the con-
notations between homosexuality and
“deviant” behavior suggested by those
letters. Gilmore has since written to
retract his earlier letter with an apology:
“My letter was not fitting fora W&L
alumnus following the great traditions of
General Lee.”

While it is the purpose of the letters
section to provide a forum for readers to
reply to the editorial content of the mag-
azine, it also presents an opportunity for
alumni to speak out about issues of
interest to the University community—
be it coeducation, Fraternity Renais-
sance, or gay rights. The opinions ex-
pressed are those of the author, and
publication does not constitute an
endorsement by the editorial board or of
Washington and Lee University.

Having published Weber’s letter, we
felt an obligation to publish replies, pro
and con, to his position. Both sides have
had an opportunity to reply, and we
have chosen to print no more letters on
the subject.

‘The Alumni Magazine of Washington
and Lee welcomes letters from its readers.
Address correspondence to: University
Editor, Washington and Lee University,
Publications Office, Hill House, Lexington,
VA 24450. All letters should be typed and
include the author’s name, address, and day-
time phone number. Letters may be edited for
length, content, and style.

VOLUME 68, NUMBER 2
SUMMER 1993

Brian D. Shaw, Executive Editor

Dick Anderson, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

W. Patrick Hinely ‘73, Photographer
Evan Atkins, Contributing Editor
William Cocke ‘82, Contributing Editor
Matthew Felber ‘92, Class Notes Editor
Brian Logue, Sports Editor

Karlic & Linthicum, Design

COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY BOARD

John Cleghorn °84

David M. Clinger ’55
William H. Fishback Jr. °56
Farris P. Hotchkiss °58
Robert S. Keefe *68
‘Thomas V. Litzenburg °57
David Lotts ’74

Andrew H. McCutcheon °48
Robert Mottley °64
Elizabeth Obenshain
Howard Packett °58

Frank A. Parsons °54
Cecily Tynan °91

Sarah K. Wiant °78L
Robert Wittpenn ’82

Published quarterly by Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington
and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA
24450. Third-class postage paid at
Lynchburg, VA 24502. Signed articles
reflect the views of their authors and not
necessarily those of the editorial board or
the University.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
DIRECTORY

Switchboard (703) 463-8400
Publications Office (703) 463-8956
Alumni Office (703) 463-8464
Development Office (703) 463-8410
News Office (703) 463-8460

Sports Info. Office (703) 463-8676
W&L Sports Hotline (703) 463-8998

The Colonnade

 

Photo opportunities abounded for camera-

happy parents and loved ones—not to
mention more camcorders than a White

House press conference.

Nothing Could Be Finer

Commencements Bask in the Great Outdoors

Washington and Lee president John D. Wilson urged graduates to invest in
“social institutions whose goals you admire” at W&L’s 244th undergraduate com-
mencement June 3.

More than 385 students graduated from W&L this year, and three honorary
degrees were award-
ed to alumni at the
ceremony. Interna-
tionally acclaimed
artist and Lexington
native Cy ‘'wombly
53; J. Alfred Broad-
dus Jr. °61, president
of the Federal
Reserve Bank of
Richmond; and Ernie
Williams °38, a retired
investment adviser
and philanthropist,
received the degrees.

Mary Jo Geyer
of Baltimore was
valedictorian. She
earned a grade-point
average of 4.017 ona
4.33 scale during her
four years at W&L.
Geyer and classmate
Philip Edward Spears
of Wake Forest,
N.C., received the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medallion, awarded annually by the
faculty to the graduating senior or seniors who “excel in high ideals of living, in spiri-
tual qualities, and in generous and disinterested service to others.”

Joshua William MacFarland, president of the student body executive committee,
spoke at the exercises as representative of the graduating class.

President Wilson called on the graduates to “look carefully at how you can magni-
fy your own best efforts to make this a better and more caring world,” with the idea
of investing voluntary time and support in worthwhile social institutions.

Suggesting that they think of these social institutions in categories, he said the
first “might well include the institutions that refine knowledge, preserve the culture,
and teach our common heritage,” such as schools and colleges, museums, historical
societies, and environmental and preservation groups. A second, he said, consists of
institutions that minister to the afflicted, including hospitals, nursing homes and hos-
pices, shelters and churches, and service clubs.

A third embraces those “that offer delight to the human spirit, that elevate our
sensibilities, instruct our souls in the outer reaches of human possibility.” ‘That cate-
gory would include the great musical organizations, art museums, community the-
aters, and dance companies.

Bidding the graduates farewell, Wilson said he hopes what they had learned at
W&L went beyond the “specialized knowledge of their courses and the sense of
moral striving that characterizes your honor system.” He said he hoped the
University had expanded their “cultural envelope” and that “the parochial world you

 

‘nhabited when you came here has
been And he
expressed the hope that their W&L

much enlarged.’

experience had “extended and
strenethened your commitment to the
notion that hard work makes a differ-

ence.

The Honorable Elizabeth B. Lacy,
the first woman named to the Virginia

lain Barlow Ne wholt, profess ir of physi §, CQ771eS 1 WAC

reate June 2. At law (right) and undergraduate (below mmen

Supreme Court, added another first to
her list of achievements. On May 23,
she became the first woman com-
mencement speaker in the 138-year
history of the Washington and Lee
School of Law. One hundred thirty-
eight third-year students received their
degrees.

“No commencement address would
be complete without referring in some

7/97

yoy
/ 7
§S QliRe,

in the traditional procession. Center: Charles M.

newly graduated students were Not

way to changes and to changes which
you face,” she began. “You cannot stop
the change, but how you individually
and collectively manage the change will
have a significant impact on the practice
of law during your lifetime.”

“Your actions,” she added, “will con-
tribute to the continuing debate of
whether a lawyer is a person with a mis-
sion, a crusader on the ramparts of pub-

 

f - a e . . : > ‘oc > >» y ‘ > .
Now It’s Official: The Seven-Year Woman lic interest, or merely a technocrat
feeding large law firms and keeping
B © made hist lucational erad the wheels of commerce turning.”

as : ‘ ) 7 : .
) ne down one last Dean Randall P. Bezanson said.
C \ . n her venture “The legal system is society’s prinej-
) a | : of women. pal instrument of change and as

lawyers you will be the architects of
change. As a lawyer, you will find thar
understanding change and channeling
it constructively will be your principal
responsibility. If we've done our job
well, we have provided you with those
broader skills, those attributes of civic
virtue, that will prepare you both per-
sonally and professionally for a time
and a life of constructive change as a
member of our noble profession.”

Days after the law commencement,
Bezanson announced plans to step
down as law dean next July (see page
34).

Robert Melvin Howie of Florham
Park, N.J., received the John W. Davis

 

Prize for Law for the highest cumula-

tive grade point average. The BNA

From left: Beckwith Archer ’90, ’93L, Christine Champlin °90, °93L, and Amy Balfour ’89, "93L. Law Student Award for the most satis-

factory scholastic progress in the final

bad a “_ nee eee sigs cidade Hc are a year went to Crystal Sue Straube of
W&] Naperville, Ill.

| | ee a Se bie Tr seat ‘The baccalaureate service was held

5] shila, ec aie ate cel eae June 3 on the front lawn, with lunch

q ne Bar A nd her 1 , ss She received this vear’s Frank served afterward for graduates and

G wal +r] St ious contribution to life” at W&] their families. And as they sat there

For ( : r| npet ittend the University st fron trong W&] eating, seniors all around asked them-

K , “oa lot of narents’ friends a! riends’ pal selves one question: Has it been four

She v - of five freshmen of the Class of 1990 years already?

 

\1 \\ a peop ‘ nr ornet per ,
’ L) yt] ved 1n tath m Ralel IR Arche 4 sa xs 4: ¢~ e
\\ Lee from the University of Kentucky. ay » ‘
| | | active in Delta Delta | 5
p| m
5 OTC
WA (
Gilliam Award recipient Josh MacFarland
( \ ) ( ( ‘ \ \ Tr ( 1S . og heal . ’
) 93 and Pusey Award recipient George S.
\ Whitney, professor of chemistry.
’ os \ ; { . - : . °

$5 Million in Challenge
Gifts Committed to
New Science Facility

Two challenge gifts totaling $5 mil-
lion have been identified in conjunction

with the announcement of a new scl-

ence facility at Washington and Lee,
construction on which may begin as
early as next spring.

The Christian A. Johnson Founda-
tion has pledged up to $1 million on a
two-for-one scale—that is, for every two
dollars of gifts designated for the sci-
ence project in either endowment or
construction money, the foundation will
give $1 to the challenge grant. ‘The
Johnson funds will establish an under-
eraduate fellows program and a science
faculty support program named for
Christian A. Johnson.

The second, anonymous challenge
gift is a $4 million “Match George
Challenge for the Sciences.” Gifts of
$50,000 or more—the original value of
the James River stock that the first pres-
ident of the United States gave to the
fledgling Liberty Hall Academy nearly
200 years ago—will be matched, dollar
for dollar, toward the construction of a
new and enlarged science center, which
the Board of Trustees has identified as
the University’s most urgent physical
and academic requirement.

A full announcement regarding the
new science building will appear in the

fall issue of the A/umni Magazine.

The Campaign for Washington and Lee
Passed the 60 percent mark in May—a
month chat saw the Annual Fund go
Over its $2.2 million goal for 1992-93.

 

Goal:

$127,000,000

Thru May 31:
$76,339,800

 

Professors kd Atwood (left) and Cleve Hickman were honored upon retiring from the
University in June with citations adopted by the Washington and Lee faculty. Atwood “joined a
faculty that included a ‘Black Jack,’ a ‘Sudden Death,’ and a ‘Daddy Mo,’ and he soon became
known to his students as ‘Easy Ed,’ a nickname which mysteriously evolved over the years to

‘Eddie the Axe,’” his Commerce School colleagues wrote. In a citation %
department of biology, Hickman was recognized for his many talents

ritten by members of the

zoology, MUSIC. photog

raphy—as well as selective absent-mindedness, “the mark of a true academic.”

Ausley Elected as Trustee

DuBose Ausley °59 was sworn in as a
member of W&L’s Board of ‘Trustees at
the board’s regular May meeting. ‘The
‘Tallahassee (Fla.) resident is president
of the law firm of Ausley, McGehee,
Carothers & Proc-
tor. Ausley re-
ceived his law
degree from the
University of
Florida in 1962.

Long active in

alumni affairs,

 

Ausley served on
the alumni board

Du Bose ; | usley

of directors and is
a member of the Washington Society
and Parents Committee. As a student at
W&L, he was a member of the
Executive Committee, Omicron Delta
Kappa, and the Interfraternity Council.
He served as president of the commerce
fraternity and of Kappa Alpha fraternity.
He was also a member of the “13” club
and the Sigma Society, and played on
the freshman football team.

Ausley is a member and past chair-
man of the board of regents of the State
University System of Florida. He is a
director of several corporations, and in

civic affairs, is a member of the Florida
Council of 100 and state director of the
Orange Bowl Committee.

He and his wife, Sallie, have two
daughters: Loranne, who graduated
from the W&L law school in 1990, and
Allison, who received her undergraduate
degree from the University in June.

Smith Murderer Gets
30 Years in Peruvian Jail

A Peruvian terrorism court sentenced
Jose Antonio Manrique Vega to 30 years
in prison in April for the 1989 murder of
lampa Tribune reporter ‘Vodd Smith °83.
The conviction was made possible,
according to the 777bune, by a key wit-
ness placed under an FBI protection
program, who testified that Smith was
beaten and accused of being a spy
before he was killed in the jungle town
of Uchiza. (The witness had tried to sell
Smith an alligator, the report said.)

Smith, 28, was on a working vacation
in Peru when he traveled to the moun-
tain town of Huancayo for municipal
elections and later to the Upper
Huallaha Valley. He was found Nov. 21,
1989, garroted in a Uchiza plaza some
250 miles northeast of Lima. Marique
was arrested last August in Uchiza.

10

Photo: C. Taylor Crothers ‘93

Photo: Peter Cronin ‘84

 

 

 

 

Speakers to the left of you.
Speakers to the right of you.
Whatever your political persua-
sion, there was a speaker for
you during a busy and star-stud-
ded spring at Washington and
Lee.

On April 30, former Los
Angeles police chief Daryl
Gates (left) debated American
Civil Liberties Union president
Nadine Strossen over “Law and
Order and the L.A. Riots.” The
event was sponsored by the
W&L chapter of the ACLU, the
Federalist Society, and the
Black Law Student Association.

On May 20, Lynne Cheney,
who headed up the National
Endowment for the Humanities
from 1986 to 1993, warned a
Northen Auditorium audience
against what she called “gender
feminism”—the idea that politi-
cally motivated professors over-
play the hardships women have
endured throughout American
history. (Other historical events
are prone to the same one-sided
treatment in the classroom, she
added.) Cheney is currently writ-
ing a book on the social impact
of current cultural trends in
America.

Cheney was joined in Lexing-
ton by husband Dick (left), who,
as secretary of defense from
March 1989 to January 1993,
directed the military operations
Just Cause in Panama and
Desert Shield and Desert Storm
in the Persian Gulf. (President
Bush awarded him the Medal of
Freedom in 1991.) He is current-
ly a senior fellow at the Amer-
ican Enterprise Institute in
Washington, D.C. The Cheneys’
visit was sponsored by W&L
and the student group Contact.

For audiences of a more liter-
ary bent, Robertson Davies’
reading at Lee Chapel on March
31 was just the ticket. The 80-
year-old Canadian is best
known for his novels which
form The Deptford Trilogy; his
other works include The Lyre of
Orpheus (1988) and Murther
and Walking Spirits (1991). The
reading was sponsored by the
Glasgow Endowment Program
at W&L.

 

wholly Moses’

Conduct Unbecoming
For Director Harry Moses

It sounds like a story for Mike
Wallace or Ed Bradley, but when former
“60 Minutes” producer Harry Moses °58
rolled into Lexington with camera in
hand, he was really making a movie,
based on fact, for the Showtime payca-
ble channel. Conduct Unbecoming: The
Court-Martial of Johnson Whitaker, writ-
ten by Moses, is based on the true story
of Whitaker, the only black cadet
enrolled at West Point in 1881, and the
black Harvard graduate who fought to
clear Whitaker’s name over a crime he
didn’t commit—an assault on himself.

While most of the filming was con-
fined to the VMI campus (which does,
after all, come closer to approximating a
Reconstruction-era military academy
than does General Lee’s college), W&L
played host to two days of lights, cam-
era, and the rest June 14 and 15. A scene
approximating Central Park was shot in
the grassy area adjacent to Lee Chapel;
the Colonnade stood in for the Univet-
sity of South Carolina; and the Morris
and Lee-Jackson houses doubled as
buildings in Victorian-era Richmond.

The film, which wrapped four weeks
of production with a party on the W&L
campus in early July, stars Sam
Waterston (The Killing Fields, TV's “Til
Fly Away”) and Samuel L. Jackson, who
can be seen in the hit film Jurassic Park

(but go early; he gets eaten).

W&L Bookshelf:

Return,
Delts A Summer Reading List

New and improved

Vv . — . 7 . . o~ o
.n 18-month suspension, PUSKIN ‘TODAY, edited by David M. Bethea °70 (Indiana University Press; $29.95).

Ending <
Delta Tau Delta was reinstated on cam-

pus July

Distinguished American Slavists address Russian writer Alexander Puskin’s writings
|. The move, approved unani- i ae |
ae de : from a “multiplicity of contemporary literary perspectives and investigate some of the
nously by the Student Affairs Commit- ;

i y VU

bee in April, followed a recommendation most puzzling issues in the poet’s life and work.” Bethea
john Wilson in February

by president is Vilas Research Professor and chair of the department

1992 to reduce the fraternity’s original

or of Slavic Languages and Literatures at the University of
five-year suspension for damages to the

Wisconsin-Madison. [he nifty cover (at left) is a laser

house In December 1991.

Delt remains on critical probation for
three years, but that will not restrict the
fraternity from any social activities, dean
of students David L. Howison told 7he
Ring-tum Phi in May. Since the suspen-
sion took effect, Delt has reorganized its
internal organizations, adopted a new
set of by-laws, and improved its rela-
tions with both alumni and nationals,
according to the PAz.

The move also comes as renovation
nears completion on the Delta Tau
Delta house. Students will be able to

move into the house by Sept. 1.

Russian Studies Program
Launches Newsletter

In the spring of 1992, Washington
and Lee introduced an interdepartmen-
tal major in Russian studies. ‘This past
May, the faculty in that program pro-

duced its first Russian Studies Newsletter

to publicize the Russian-related activi-
ties of students, faculty, and alumni and
to begin to develop an informal network
between these segments of the W&L
community.

Newsletter editor Richard Bidlack,
associate professor of history and
Russian studies, is looking to identify
alumni whose careers have brought
them into contact with Russia in some
Way. Alumni who wish to receive the
Newsletter or contribute information for
future issues should write Bidlack at
\\ ashington and Lee, Newcomb Hall.
Lexington, VA 24450. Bidlack can also
be reached by phone at (703) 463-8912;
by fax at (/03) 463-8945; and even by e-
mail (internet) at bidlack.r@wlu.edu.

 

 

Price Coulling (John F

 

U4 N LO) BY-\G

and woman of letters who

 

spent most of her adult life in
Lexington. Her husband, J. 1.L. Preston, was one of the
founders of VMI, and her brother-in-law, “Stonewall”
Jackson, was—well, we all know what he was. Coulling
discovered some of Preston’s scrapbooks and notebooks
while doing research for 7he Lee Girls at the University

Library, and the book is the result of six years’ research.

FISHBOY, by Mark Richard

HSHBUY

his adventures begin.

‘TOM KATZ #1. Story and art

Me

by John Dean °76 (Sun
Comic Publishing; $2.50). A pun-filled alternative to a
field thick with superheroes, Dean’s commercial comic-
book debut spoofs the momr detective yarns of the 1940s
with an all-feline cast. Can Sam Spayed be far behind:
Dean is also president of Rockbridge Oil & Gas of
Houston. (lhe above books may be purchased from the

University Bookstore.)

image of an 1829 self-portrait by Puskin.

trawler manned by a crew of renegades

MARGARET JUNKIN PRESTON: A BIOGRAPHY, by Mary
Blair, Publisher; $21.95).

“Maggie,” as she was known to her friends, was a poet

 

°80 (Doubleday; $19.95). Richard, who won the 1990
PEN/ Ernest Hemingway award for his collection of sto-
ries, The Ice at the Bottom of the World, resurfaces with what
The New York Times Book Review calls “an extraordinary
first novel.” I’he title character is a mutant child “with a

wandering eye and a missing ear” who stows away on a

—and that’s when

 

 

PREMIER

 

cs

 

11

What is SONOKLECT?

It's music to Margaret Brouwer’s ears.
(Now, if only everyone else would listen up.)

When Margaret Brouwer talks about
composing music, her enthusiasm is
infectious. You can almost hear the
instruments of the orchestra tuning up
for the performance.

“You don’t read a book you’ve
already read,” she says. “You don’t see a
movie you've already seen. But people
frequently only want to hear music that
they know, that they are familiar with.

“It scares me about our culture.”

Brouwer is associate professor of
music at Washington and Lee and the
music department’s composer-in-resi-
dence. (Her compositions include the
music for “A Washington and Lee
Hymn,” which has become a staple in
the Southern Comfort and JubiLee
songbook.) In the five years since she
joined the faculty—an appointment that
coincided with the addition of a music
major to the W&L curriculum—she has
taught music composition and related
courses, a survey of contemporary
music, and instruction in violin. An
accomplished violinist, she also serves
as concertmaster of the five-year-old
University-Rockbridge Symphony
Orchestra, which brings local musicians
together with W&L students and pro-
fessors.

And since 1989, Brouwer has been
the director of Sonok/ect, an annual festi-
val of new music that brings nationally
known composers and professional
musicians to W&L for seminars, work-
shops, lectures, and concerts (The name
is derived from sono, Italian for “sound,”

12

 

Brouwer attempts to evoke “natural

phenomena” with compositions such as
Aurolucent Echoes, an //-minute

chamber-group piece.

and &/ect, the Greek word for “eclectic.” )

The music is, admittedly, an
acquired taste. This year’s festival, held
April 27 to May 2, featured a perfor-
mance in the Lenfest Center by con-
ductor Victoria Bond and the Roanoke
Symphony Orchestra, with a program
that ranged all the way from
Beethoven’s Leonore Overture No. 1 to
Brouwer’s own Shifting Circles. Another
concert, featuring the Roxbury
Chamber Players of Richmond, was also
held during the festival. Attendance at
both concerts was less than capacity,
and Brouwer has her theories as to why.

“People are afraid of change, of any-
thing new,” she says. “Contemporary
classical music isn’t safe music—it’s
music you don’t know. It requires some
concentration when you listen to it.”

“Original ideas are an important part
of composition,” says the award-winning
composer (she recently shared first-
prize honors at the International
Women’s Brass Conference, where her
compositions 7imespan and SCHerZOid
were performed). “Some days ideas just
pop into your head—some days, nothing
pops in worth keeping. I think a lot
about the aura of the piece before I
write anything.” Once Brouwer has
started a piece it takes on its own per-
sonality: “A mood comes out of it and I
try to be true to the personality that
evolves.”

After the initial creative impulse, the
melody must be developed in different
ways to create the entire composition—
not unlike filling a canvas with color, or
turning an outline into a novel. This,
she says, “is the hardest thing for com-
position students to learn—to take an
idea and develop it in many different
ways in order to create a unified piece.”

Because most of Brouwer’s pieces are
commissioned, she frequently writes
pieces for specific instruments such as
Silence Beyond..., written for wind ensem-
ble. “I like to create a sound world for
those instruments,” she says. “Then I
find unique ways to use the instruments
to achieve interesting colors. Colof,

mood, and rhythm are the main things
I’m interested in. I like to work with
catchy and complex rhythms because
thev are fun to listen to, and the per-
formers are intrigued with them.”

Since 1988, Brouwer’s compositions
have been performed by the St. Louis
Symphony, Juilliard Symphony, and the
Bay Area Women’s Philharmonic,
among others. (Of her “Third from the
Sun” composition, performed by the
Juilliard Symphony, 7he New York Times
wrote, “Ms. Brouwer’s music, devoid of
slickness, did not strive for effect but

Was true C

a vision.”) Her recordings
are available on the Centaur, Opus One,
and Crystal record labels, and can be
found at the University Bookstore.

The daughter of musicians (her
father was a pianist and organist, her
mother a singer and choir conductor),
Brouwer took up piano at age 6, and vio-
lin around 11. She also danced and sang,
but when she had to choose the activity
she would concentrate on, she chose the
violin. Brouwer attended the Oberlin
Conservatory to study music where she
received her degree in performance in
violin.

While raising two sons in Texas,
Brouwer played the violin professionally
with the Fort Worth and Dallas sym-
Phonies, as well as with opera and ballet
Orchestras and the recording industry.

She |

POsition at Indiana University.

ater pursued her doctorate in com-

As a composer of modern classical

Music :
iusic, one of Brouwer’s greatest chal-

lenges is not developing creative mater-
ial, or teaching undergraduate students
how to compose—it’s getting people to
listen to modern classical music. She has
made a valiant effort to broaden the
horizons of music to students, as well as
to members of the community.

But still, there remains the question:
What is Sonoklect?

“It’s a remarkable achievement to
bring contemporary music to campus,”
says O.W. “Tom” Riegel, professor
emeritus of journalism at W&L and a
booster of Brouwer’s efforts. And even
if it is an acquired taste, he offers this
reminder: “The music we call classical
was itself, at one time, modern.”

—By Evan Atkins

' Wy NT
AWA oe
\ W\\ MN

 

Visions of Sonoklect: Victoria Bond
(above) conducts the Roanoke Symphony;

retired Droressor Rob Sfewart (be low)

INSTTUCTS A MasleT ClaSS for COMPOSE Fae

 

13

vial
“ay
4 Bee

a
x

a. aA
Ae ah 7
‘ft.
ee ee ed ro)
ae

P,

fem

 

Remembering the Renaissance Man

James Graham Leyburn: 1902-1993

James Graham Leyburn, former dean of the University and
professor emeritus of sociology and one of Washington and
Lee’s most distinguished administrators, died April 28 of
complications from pneumonia. He was 91.

Leyburn was born January 17, 1902, in Hedgesville, W.Va.
He received his bachelor’s and master’s in economics at Trinity
College (Duke University) in 1920 and 1921, an M.A. in
economics and social institutions from Princeton in 1922, and 4

14

 

—

), in sociology from Yale University in 1927. Leyburn taught
at Yale for 20 years, rising to full Professor of sociology before
ming to W&L as dean of the University in 1947.

As Washington and Lee approached its bicentennial in 1949,
Leyburn proposed strengthening the University’s academic
standards and bringing the curriculum closer to the liberal arts
‘deal. In what became known as the “Leyburn Plan,” he said
that his goal as dean was that “everyone by common consent
[should] name us first on the list of great teaching universities,
just as everyone trends to name Harvard first in any list of great
research universities.” Upon Leyburn’s retirement, then-
President Robert E.R. Huntley remarked: “The subsequent
Washington and Lee has been, in large measure, the

Ph.l

co

history of
° ”
history of implementing the Leyburn Plan.

|.eyburn stepped down as dean in 1956 to return to full-time
reaching in the sociology department. (He was head of the
department of sociology and anthropology until 1967, retiring as
dean and professor emeritus in 1972.) His inimitable teaching
stvle made him extremely popular among his students, who
referred to him as “Zeus” and his home at 30 University Place
as “Mount Olympus.”

At his concluding lecture of ancient history each semester—
which included a moving recital of Socrates’ death speech—his
students gave him a standing ovation of affection and gratitude,
a practice that became a W&L tradition.

Leyburn was the author of six books, two of which, 7he
Haitian People and The Scotch-Irish: A Social History, are
considered classics in the field of sociology. 74e Haitian People
received the Ainsfield-Wolf Award in 1941 as the best published
work on racial! relations.

In addition to his academic work, Leyburn was a widely
respected concert pianist. 74e Roanoke Times in 1949 called him
“probably the best piano playing dean of any university in the
country,” and a 1963 tape of Beethoven’s 7empest sonata,
recorded in his living room for college radio station WLUR, was
warmly received.

He read more than 100 books a year—mostly history and
classical literature—in French, German, Latin, Greek, and
English. he once
acknowledged.) Upon his retirement, he gave 2,000 volumes to
friends and to the University Library, hundreds more to
students and the sociology department, and hauled another four
tons to Spring Hill Farm, his ancestral home near Martinsburg,
W.Va. He remained in the Martinsburg area, continuing his
scholarly work and his voluminous correspondence, until his
death.

Leyburn’s father, Edward L. Leyburn, was an 1887 graduate
of W&L, and his great-grandfather, Alfred Leyburn, served as
rector of the W&L Board of Trustees from 1872 to 1878.

In his lifetime, Leyburn received honorary degrees from both
Duke and Washington and Lee. He was a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, Sigma Chi, and Omicron Delta Kappa and the
Elizabethan Club of Yale. He also received the prestigious
Lynchburg Citation in 1969 for “memorable contributions to the
Cultural stimulation and intellectual growth of generations of
Washington and Lee men.”

(“My tastes are fairly catholic,”

 

And Now, the
Leyburn Library

‘The Washington and Lee Board of ‘Trustees voted at its
May meeting to name the University Library posthumously for
James Graham Leyburn, the celebrated former dean and
professor who retired in 1972 after a quarter-century of
unparalleled academic service to the University.

“The mark that James G. Leyburn left upon Washington
and Lee is enduring,” says President John D. Wilson. “His
legacy lives on in our commitment to teaching and to the
liberal arts. His concepts of personal honor, integrity, and self-
discipline set a wonderful example of generations of
Washington and Lee students.”

“This man was the best there ever could be in a teacher,”
says trustee William M. Gottwald ’70, who proposed naming
the library for Leyburn. “Dr. Leyburn left an indelible and
positive impression on every student in his classroom.”

The Leyburn Library is only the second building on
campus in
modern history
to be named
honorifically,
and perhaps
the highest
honor that the
University can
bestow on an
individual. At
its February
1986 meeting,
the Board of Trustees named Gaines Residence Hall for
Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of Washington and Lee
from 1930 to 1959.

Now the Board has suspended its usual financial
requirement for the naming of a building to honor Dean
Leyburn. “The fact that the trustees would suspend the
normal standard for naming the building in the midst of the
University’s urgent $127 million campaign speaks volumes
about the Board’s high esteem for James Leyburn,” says Farris
Hotchkiss ’58, vice president of university relations.

“Naming the library in honor of Dean Leyburn is not only a
tribute to an extraordinary man and scholar,” Wilson adds,
“but it is also a clear recognition of the magnitude of the role
he played in helping to shape the mission and character of this
great institution.”

University librarian Barbara J. Brown calls the decision
“inspired. Naming the chief academic building on the campus
after a man who has meant so much to the University is perfect
and appropriate.”

The University Library, completed in 1979, contains more
than 400,000 volumes. Some of them—from A/ice’s Adventures
in Wonderland to Alex Haley’s Roots—once belonged to James
Graham Leyburn.

15


»,

or a chuckle from

+) %
we

‘of mind that §$tirs *

as

rs ‘93

>

Taylor Crothe

C

Photo

 

Fray McCormick, president of the
Class of ’89, remembers his senior party.
“It was huge,” he says. “We had close to
900 people there.” Charging $5 a head
for non-seniors, “we collected almost
$3,000 at the gate.”

Law librarian Sarah K. Wiant ’78L
remembers First Daughter Susan Ford’s
impetuous dive into Buffalo Creek one
Fancy Dress weekend to the con-
sternation of her Secret Service
protectors (who were conspicuous by

As a younger man, “I helped my father some,” says

Wayntlee Zollman, “but | was more interested in

running around and partying myself in those days.”

their haircuts and their Alvin-Dennis
uniforms). It wasn’t a particularly balmy
day, Wiant recalls, and “she was wet.
She was cold.”

Alan W. Lee ’69 remembers the quiet
times the most—when Zollmans was
“empty.” Lee was one of many students
who rented a house across the road from
the pavilion from owner Ralph Zollman
in the late ‘60s and early ’70s. “It was so
idyllic,” recalls Lee, now vice president
for development and college relations at
Queens College. “One day we were
fishing in Buffalo Creek when we heard
this huge crash and splash. An enormous
deer had jumped in the water. It scared
us to death.”

18

 

Whatever the attraction, Zollmans is
as popular now—“a killer place,” in the
words of one graduating senior—as it
was in the ’60s, ’70s, and ’80s. Maybe it’s
the beautiful natural setting. Maybe it’s
the allure of a forbidden roadhouse in
the sticks. Or maybe it’s just that, as
another senior put it, “there’s never a
small party at Zollmans.”

“They’ve had some good times out
there,” says Charles F. “Murph” Murray,
who retired in 1991 after 32 years as
proctor at Washington and Lee.
Murph’s tenure at W&L began
before Zollmans was even
built—and while he knew about
those parties, he didn’t attend
very many. “I didn’t want to
interfere with the students, but I
knew what they were going to
do,” he says. “They were out
there away from the eyes of the
University—and away from the
eyes of the law.”

 

alph

Zollman may not have heard
voices in his field like Kevin
Costner did in Field of Dreams,
but in 1964, when he con-
structed an open pavilion in the
middle of a field, the W&L
students quickly came.
Originally built to provide a
Zollman’ family
reunions, the site quickly caught on
among the W&L crowd. “In just a
couple of years, a field was turned into
an institution,” recalls C. Howard Capito
68. “First it was just a roof, then a
concrete floor, then some walls were
added. Ralph was a character. He liked
being around the students.”

For almost 30 years now, W&L
students and their dates have leaned
against its rough-hewn cedar posts, sat in
its cramped rustic booths, and warmed
themselves by its large stone fireplace
while listening to the sounds of enter-

place for

tainers ranging from Dionne Warwick
and Jerry Jeff Walker to Clifford Curry
to the Voltage Brothers; and from Doug

  

Clark and the Hot Nuts to Bill Clinton
and his saxophone. Even when ctl |
music was bad, it was still a great Party,

For years, W&L students have sar on
the big rocks under the shade trees,
fished off the banks of Buffalo Creek,
and leaned against their cars, celebratin
the rites of spring or fall in Rockbridge
County. Other times they have swung
from the rafters, wrestled in the mud,
and taken indiscriminate dips in the
water. Whether or not to use the our.
houses is an ongoing debate, and driving
back to town after a party is just as much
a challenge now as it was back then.

Zollmans remains a powerful magnet
for W&L alumni. During Reunion
Weekend in May, the classes of °73, °78,
83, and ’88 made the trek out to Zoll-
mans for their Saturday night reverie.
“So many people have such fond
memories—if blurred—of Zollmans,
that it is a great location for class
reunions,” says James D. Farrar Jr. °74,
W&L’s director of alumni programs.
“Not only does it bring back fond
memories, it is a perfect place fora
barbecue.”

tween

1964 and 1970, Zollmans was so popular
with the students that improvements
came quickly. An additional 10 feet was
constructed around the perimeter and
the booths were built. Then the two
ends were enclosed, adding the large
stage and dressing room at one end and
a stone fireplace at the other. Within a
few years, the entire pavilion was
enclosed and heated.

Construction of the large stone —
fireplace took Ralph, his son Waynlee,
and two other men roughly two weeks to
build. “The higher the chimney got, the
smaller the rocks got,” says Waynlee,
who has overseen the pavilion since his
father’s death in 1984. “The two carved
stone lion’s heads in the fireplace came
from an old hotel in Clifton Forge:
(The lions long ago lost their noses
flying bottles aimed at the fireplace.)

At one time, Waynlee claims, thet

 

—

ooms on the back side of

re nice bathr
bathrooms with hot and

building—

we

the

Id running water, sinks, and working
co
facilities Alas, they didn’t hold up to the

so they were replaced some

heavy US©: a
‘hose infamous outhouses.

years ag0 by
Subsequent additions have
covered barbecue pit and a gatebo. The

$350 rental fee includes clean-up, which

can take hours.
talked to boys all over the

country who say ‘there’s no place like
this place,’ Waynle ;
W&L boys don’t know how lucky they
like this to come

included a

“T’ve

e says. “These

are to have a place

party and relax.’

   

Ce,

who retired after 28 years as a beer
salesman, works part-time for the game
commission in addition to overseeing the
pavilion, the proceeds from which still
go to his mother. Like his father before
him, Waynlee enjoys getting to know

 

the students.
the time,” he says. There’s another in-
: His liability insurance requires
someone to be there during parties.

In 25 years of running the pavilion,

Waynlee has never had a

centive

claim, but he’s seen some
close calls. “A few years
ago during Fancy Dress
veekend, |
home to rest when one

boy decided it would be a
good idea to drive

had gone

Me)

through
the building,” he recalls.

Another time, sitting
asleep in his truck,
Waynlee awoke to the

sight of a boy with a big
rock in his hand and a
second rock coming at him
through the windshield.
“Man, I was hot!” he
recalls. “But nobody got hurt and the
boy paid to fix the windshield.”

Then there was the Saturday after-

7 fy sheen
Ste Hale?

years ago, when some
road at

noon, about five
guy came barreling down the

“I try to be here most of

 

th n les 4 » fj A oe
llé €VOlU1ION laddae

about 50 miles an hour, “too fast to
stop,” plowing right through the gate
and landing unharmed in the field. “I
gave him a good talkin’ to,” Waynlee

says, “and of course he paid to have the

“ 7
. ns
» -

r a a

: Kote: al a Re
Sea

fence put back.”

All things considered, the pavilion has
stood up well to 30 years of alumni and
friends.
not from students, but from the four
floods that have
hit in the last
quarter-century.
“After the flood of
69, there was two
foot of mud in
Waynlee

The heaviest damage has come

here,”
recalls. “One end
of the building
was completely
knocked down
and the dressing
room and stage
end was pushed
back. The rest of
the floods were
not near as dam-
aging, but left a lot
of mud and silt.”
Despite the
occasional prob-
lems with hot-rod
bottle
Those
things get me hot

drivers,
tossing (“

in minutes”), and
Mother Nature,
Waynlee enjoys
being out there. “I
enjoy the music,

19

Photo: Peter Cronin ‘84

 

especially the country music, and I enjoy
seeing the students come back.” He has
seen the college social scene change
through the years. “This place was really
rockin’ in the ’60s and ’70s,” he recalls.
“The parties were wilder then. The kids
now are more clean-cut and they don’t
seem to drink as much. Plus, they are
more responsible about driving.”

Some things have definitely improved
over the decades. Buses and vans
frequently transport partygoers to
Zollmans and back. Live Drive, a
student-run chauffeur service, makes
frequent trips to and from campus, and
designated drivers are increasingly
commonplace now. ‘The growing pres-
ence of W&L security personnel at Zoll-
mans in recent years has often kept the
parties from getting out of control. Even

 

The Class of ’73 enjoyed barbecue and brewskis at
Zollmans during Reunion Weekend back in May.

having cellular phones makes the remote
location seem closer to civilization.

But still the parties go on. Mike
Young, Murph’s successor as University
proctor, thinks Zollmans’ rave reviews
by its largely male clientele might have
something to do with one’s beverage
selection. In the right frame of mind, he
surmises, “Zollmans can seem like the

‘Taj Mahal.”

students, of course, don’t have exclusive
rights to Zollmans. Students from the
University of Virginia, VMI, and area

20

women’s colleges rent the facilities for
parties, as do the local Moose Lodge,
Lions Club, and Knights of Pythias,
particularly during the summer months.
Zollmans has hosted a number of
weddings, receptions, and family
reunions. ‘The Zoll-
man clan has been
gathering on that
spot for some 56
years now.

But no one, it
seems, Can pass up
a party at Zoll-
mans. At the 1988
Mock Convention,
then-Arkansas Gov.
Bill Clinton gave a
rousing speech in
the Warner Center,
and proved
to be a big
hit with the
students.
Later that
night, escorted by some well-
connected Washington and Lee
alumni, Clinton and his en-
tourage were chauffeured out to
Zollmans by limousine for what
Everett Tucker III ’72 of Little
Rock calls “a typically good party
out there.” Clinton impressed
even the Republicans—and may
have won over a few voters when
he played the saxophone on the
Zollmans stage. “We spent the
rest of the evening out there,” ‘Tucker
recalls. “When we left at about 2 a.m.,
the party was still going strong.”

 

you are anticipating a trip to Zollmans,
and you’ve never been there before,
allow us to share six essential tips:

1. On the drive out there: Don’t worry.
It may look like you’re entering
Deliverance country, but really, it’s OK.

2. Wear real old shoes—the kind you
don’t mind throwing away the next day.

 

3. Wear real old clothes—or at least the
kind that can get real wet.

4. Carry your own supply of bathroom
tissue: You may choose not to use the
outhouse, or the line may be too long

 

The closest thing you'll find to a laundry service at Zollmans.

5. If you choose to use the outhouse, a
word to the wise: Every word you say
can be overheard next door. Some very
embarrassing things were overheard
Reunion Weekend.

6. Hip waders, flashlights, and jumper |
cables can come in handy. Car batteries
have a tendency to die out at Zollmans
at 2 a.m.

that said, there’s no excuse
for missing a party—not
even the loss of personal
property. Communications
writer William Cocke °82
remembers driving out
Zollmans one day with a
carload of passengers when everyone
noticed a blue VW Rabbit in flames by
the side of the road.

“That looks like Billy Brown’s car,”
they all said, zooming past the burning
vehicle on their way to the party.

As it turns out, they were right: It was
Billy Brown’s car. But when they
reached their destination, Billy Ww
there, safe and sound, having hitched @
tide to the pavilion. The car could walt
Zollmans would not.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Coffin Photo: Eve Morra

Overmind and Into Print

In the spring term of his freshman year, Bill Coffin °93 was in class
daydreaming—an activity that comes naturally to most students at that
time of the year.

Sometimes it pays to lapse into a reverie in class. What came to
Coffin’s mind was an idea for a science-fiction novel titled Overmind.
And for the recently graduated English major, fantasy will become
reality when Overmind is published later this year by Trillium Books of
Unionville, N.Y.

Coffin, a longtime sci-fi fan, describes Overmind as the story of Friff
Carale, “who escapes to his homeworld and becomes involved in a
search for God on an empirical level.” And if that wasn’t enough for
400 pages, “it’s got lots of action, too,” he adds.

The Easton (Pa.) resident was encouraged in his endeavors by his
English professors at W&L, particularly Dabney Stuart. “I established
a rapport with Professor Stuart that allowed me to figure out a way to
do what I wanted within the academic parameters of the creative
writing class,” Coffin says. “He was a great help throughout the entire
process.”

Coffin methodically plots out his work with the aid of storyboards, a
process that springs from a lifelong love of comics. “I used to write and
draw comic books as a kid, and now I get ideas from the pictures |
draw,” he says. “Soon I have an interlocking web of pictures that tell
the whole story, from beginning to end.”

From there,
the actual writing
took a mere 12
weeks, and Coffin
revised the novel
over the summer
before submitting
it for publication
in the fall. Follow-
ing “a salvo of
query letters to all
sorts of publishing
companies,” ‘Tril-
lium picked up
the manuscript
with a modest
advance.

Perhaps aware
that Overmind may
not make him the
next Terry Brooks *69L (bestselling author of 74e Sword of Shannara
series), Coffin is looking for work in the publishing field while he
works on his next novel. But he has found that early success has
opened up the creative floodgates, and ideas are coming “fast and
furious.” He is particularly happy that his first publication, “a special
event,” came while he was at W&L. “It was here that I learned to
write,” he explains. “Nothing else will have quite the sweetness of

this experience.”

The Road Less Traveled

To hear her mother talk, Stephanie McHaney 92 “could sell snow
to an Eskimo.” But right now, she’s too busy selling Doritos to Kroger.

22

 

For his hero, “Friff Carale,” Coffin explains, “I wanted to come up with a
normal name—something that sounded like a 21st-century version of ‘Dennis.’

As a district sales
manager for Frito-
Lay Inc. in Char-
lottesville, McHaney
is the next-to-last link
in a sales distribution
chain that stretches
all the

way from

Roanoke to Char-
lotte to the Southern
regional headquarters °
in Atlanta.

And she knows
what it’s like to be
the final link in the
Frito-Lay food chain:
On her first day of

work last year, she

 

“For a hard worker,” McHaney says, “the

was assigned a truck
potential for movement in this company is vast? —
SO long as she keeps it under 65 On the highway.

route and handed the
keys to her very own
van. She was up at 4
every morning, loading the van by 5, and hitting the road soon after,
“On my first day, I didn’t get home until 8:30 that night,” she recalls.
“It was a real trial by fire.”

Now she sometimes has to hit the road
when a salesman is sick, but most days she
is in charge of nine routes and their drivers,

“r

some of whom are old-timers. “There are
very few women in this industry and I have
to take the good with the bad in all areas of
the business,” she says. “But I’m managing
probably two and-a-half to three million in
sales this year. In the process, I'm a
manager, salesperson, service and
distribution person, doctor, and therapist all
in one.”

McHaney’s key to successful sales is
developing a personal style and research,
research, research. “It takes sitting down for
hours before I see a customer and figuring
out how to sell to them,” she says. “I’m
selling to corporate giants like Wal-Mart all
the way down to backroads mom-and-pop
operations.”

Asked if her parents were a bit skeptical of her entering 4
traditionally male-oriented business as a truck driver, the 1992
graduate of the School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics just

laughs: “They were ecstatic that I had a job.”

Pro Bono, For Herself

Monoka Venters °93L knows the perfect question guaranteed 1
confound an interviewer. The very first thing she asks is how much
pro bono work she would be allowed to do. “That invariably led to
some polite hemming and hawing,” she recalls with a laugh.

Venters is a woman with a mission: not to watch the jaws of other

lawyers drop, but to help the poor, the disenfranchised, the people

—

nowhere else to turn. By taking a job with the Georgia Legal
; ave ' ,
who ha | ) . -
- » Dublin, Ga., she is well on her way to accomplishing
sid Society 19 |
chis goal.
Venters will be
. landlord/tenant disputes and domestic violence issues

practicing rural poverty law, which encompasses

everything fron |
family law matters and food stamp claims. “In a nutshell, I will be
ro familly *

i ling W ith CIN i| matters for indigent clients, or those people who live
deans .
below the pover’s level,” she explains.
ye

She wouldn’t have it any other way. Growing up near the coalfields

f rural southeastern Kentucky, she witnessed poverty firsthand. “I
O .

realized while | was in college just how lucky I was,” she says. As a law

cudent at \W&l. Venters worked summers as a caseworker for
.

satients at Western State Hospital in Staunton, Va., and as an intern
ps

for the Virginia legal Aid Society. She spent her last Christmas

vacation in Florida—not on the beach, but as one of nine W&L
volunteers providing legal assistance to Haitian refugees seeking
asvium in the L’nited States.

| For those looking, legal aid jobs these days are not easy to come by,
in part because of
budget cuts dating
back to the Reagan
administration. (The
state of Georgia had
only eight positions
available this year.)
Yet Venters feels
that the biggest gap
in the legal world is
not among the
people she will be
serving, but rather

those who make

lhe issue 1s moot with Monoka: Of public service, she says,
“l don't think I could practice any other kind of law.”

slightly more than
the legal definition
of poverty-level wages. “These are the ones who are really falling
through the cracks in our legal system,” she says. “Most attorneys
can’t afford to take on clients who are unable to pay.”

To make matters worse, many well-intentioned law graduates are
unable to pursue jobs in the public sector because they are saddled
with large debts. The W&L Law Class of ’93 is doing its part to
alleviate this problem by contributing to the school’s loan-forgiveness
program, a grant to help people who are going into public service.

Venters, meanwhile, is fortunate that Georgia will pick up the tab
for her student loans: “Not every state can afford to do this, but
Georgia has an exceptional legal aid program,” she says, comfortable in
her choice of vocation. “I don’t think I could practice any other kind of

law. I’m definitely committing myself to this purely out of conviction.”

They're with the Band

Whoever said that being in a rock ’n’ roll band was all glamour,

glo ‘ : : ;
~Fy, and girls? Ask the members of Lost in the Supermarket—Dave

KI. *Q¢ . ’ ’ ’
abo °89, lead guitar; Bryan Patterson ’91, vocals; Matt Stover °91,

dri ° ‘ , . .
‘Ms; and Andrew Keller ’92, bass—and they will tell you that the

}0b j bs
JOD Is great but the commute can be a killer.

|
| N one weekend, the Charlottesville (Va.)-based band played at a
Yar j ; — ; ‘ : —— : 7

In Radford on F riday night, a “Breakfast of Champions” party at

Har
“ ] . . Y 2 c ‘
'Pden-Sydney College at 9 the next morning, and a sorority formal

 

that night. In the first three months of 1993, they played 46 gigs up
and down the East Coast and have a steadily growing number of dates
booked for the rest of the year.

Sull primarily a college band (“We like fraternities because you
can always count on a packed house”), the guys began playing club
dates only about a year ago. In fact, the realities of the music biz hit
home recently, when just after landing a regular Monday night gig at a
local bar, the joint shut down unexpectedly. “Just when we were
beginning to attract a steady crowd,” laments Keller. “It was a good
lesson, though, because it showed how up and down this business is.”

But with one CD of original tunes under their belt and with two
booking agencies representing them, the band is beginning to carve
out a niche out on the circuit. However, like most bands just starting
out these days the personal computer is their best friend. At each show
they put out a sign-up sheet for people to get on their mailing list. “It
helps us keep up with the demographics of the people who come to
our shows and lets them know ahead of time when we will be playing
their area,” says Keller, who came up with the idea. “It pays for itself
in exposure and additional bookings.”

One example of their marketing savvy: When the
band played New York City, it sent a postcard to every
Washington and Lee alumni in the area, letting them know,
in effect, that The World’s First-All-W&L Professional
Rock and Roll Band was playing their town. Actually, that
claim may finally fall by the wayside as Stover leaves to go
to medical school this fall.

After hiring another drummer, the others plan to
keep on with business as usual. None have day jobs (“Well,
Bryan works in a deli, but, hey, every band has to have a guy
that does that”) and they are supporting themselves quite
nicely. They credit the fraternity system and active social
life at W&L with giving them the opportunity to learn their
chops, thus providing them the impetus to make a living
playing music.

And the tight job market was a blessing in disguise, they all say,
because it allowed them to pursue a career they otherwise might not
have considered. “It made it easier to justify to our parents, anyway,”
says Stover.

“It really is the greatest job in the world,” adds Klabo. “The only

drawback is all the tickets we get because of the driving involved.” @

 

VET 9]. aruims:

. , } j :
ular: lndr 0 Ke / r YZ. DaSS

Lost in the Supermarket, not in the job market: (1-r) Matt Sto

Bryan Patterson 91, vocals: Dave Klabo ’89. :

23

 

Ys

oy

 

 

 

 

 

|

:
:

:

ft

OT TOGA ALAC ALCOR LOLOL LG

: but Philippe Labro has returned to campus with Vhe Foreign Student

| ee Sm Bee ene oe, Oey

 

 

    

And as I sat there, exhausted, | knew this
is why I had come to America. To walk
amongst the gods at Asheland-Stuart. Boys
with names like Beau Anthony Bedford, Page
De Ronde Crowther and James Cameron
Hostatter. And the girls . . .
whole life | had never seen such creatures,

my God! In my

nothing like the girls at the \ycée with their

hard, pinched little faces. These were
Southern belles and it made me drunk just to
look at them.

Philippe Labro’s life is flashing before
his eyes—over and over, take after take.
And like a character out of a movie—a
character named Philippe Labro, in a
movie titled Foreign Student—he says: “I
can’t believe the girls look like this.
Because with the men, the difference is
not that great—a suit is a suit, a jacket is
a jacket, a tie is a tie—but the girls: the
length of the skirts, the styles, the hair.”

The calendar says May 1993, and
LLabro is standing on the front lawn of
the W&L campus. But for cinematic
purposes, it’s September 1954, and
Philippe (Marco Hofschneider) has just
arrived at Asheland-Stuart College—a
coeducational school, one of many
liberties the film has taken from the
book that it is based on (and in turn,
from W&L in the 1950s). But the movie
opens much as Labro’s real-life exper-
ience did, with a French exchange stu-
dent landing at a small, Southern college
for two years that will change his life.

26

lhe Producer
“TE WASNT JUSTE ABOUT
W&L,.” SAYS MARK
LOMBARDO. “BEING A
FOREIGN SPUDENT IS
ABSORBING EVERY-
‘THING—INFORMATION

AND ATMOSPHERE AND
NIOODS.”

LLabro heard it all, saw it all, and (if

the book is to be believed) did it all
before returning to his native France in
the summer of 1956. In the decades that
followed, he became a noted journalist,
essayist, novelist, and filmmaker. And
three decades after he set foot on W&L
campus as “an innocent lamb,” he
decided to write a book about it. “It took
30 years to incubate and digest the
importance of these events,” he says.
“These two years were the turning point
in my life—they made me.” He envi-
sioned his blend of imagination and
autobiography as “a small, intimate
experience,” of little interest to anyone
outside his family and close friends.

Tout le France thought otherwise. 74e
Foreign Student spent 30 weeks on the
bestseller list, won a major literary prize,
and sent Labro’s subsequent novels (One
Summer Out West, Le Petit Garcon, and
Fifteen, which was published in January)
to the top of the charts as well. “With
The Foreign Student, \ established a kind
of clique with a huge mass of readers
who liked my style and have kept
faithful to my work since then,” Labro

w

says. “And all this, if you think about ie
comes back to my arrival here. And nell
it’s being turned into a film, so what else
can you be but pleased and amazed?”
Of course, none of his SUCCess—Jeagr
of all the movie—happened overnight.
Ask Labro about the journey of 7%,
Foreign Student from the bookstore to the
cinema, and prepare to settle in for ap
epic tale from a master raconteur. “Tt’s
an odyssey, really,” he says. “It’s a saga,”

Philippe Labro has directed seven
movies over the last quarter-century,
major films with some of the biggest
names in French cinema: Yves Montand,
Jean Louis ‘Trintignant, and of course,
Gérard Depardieu. But he had no
interest in directing Philippe Labro.

But plenty of producers had an
interest in making 7he Foreign Student.
Soon after its publication in 1986, Labro
was besieged by suitors courting the film
rights to Labro’s bestseller, including a
couple of well-known French directors
whom Labro prefers not to name. He
told them he would direct it himself
even though he knew he never would: “I
would never be able to put it in
objectivity, but it worked for me to shy
those people away from the project.”

Then producer Thom Mount
(National Lampoon’s Animal House), who
had just finished Frantic with director
Roman Polanski, visited the author at his
office at Radio Tele Lexembourg (Labro
is vice president and director of pro-
gramming of RTL, France’s largest radio
network). Mount “had the spirit of the
story,” Labro recalls, “and when he
explained how he wanted to make a film
out of it—what in the book should be
retained, what should be left out—it
corresponded exactly with my ideas. |
said, ‘Fine, let’s get our agents together
and strike a deal.’ So an option was
taken and that was that.”

In time, Mount returned to the
States, and while his career took off in
other directions, The Foreign Student
stalled at the development stage. After
two years of waiting and much hand-
wringing (by now, the English-language
translation had been published in the
United States), the rights reverted 0
Labro, and soon he had another suito®
Paul Maslansky, the producer of the

—

OOo SS—<‘ mm ..rerere ee EOEOO oO a

4cademy series—and just as
a W&L alumnus (’54).
knows the place, he loves

Police
important,

“This guy
rhe school, he will make a picture,”

[,abro recalls thinking. “So other options
were taken, “a
ait—wait, no news.” ‘The prob-

new contracts, and then, no

news, W
lem, he theorizes, is that Maslansky, like
elt,

Mount, cl
through a studio,
“and the studios were not interested.”

,ose to develop the property
not independently,

By the end of 1991, “my agents decided
we should get back the property.”

At this point enters Carthago Films
honcho ‘T'arak Ben Ammar—an “active,
dynamic, fast-talking, ‘Tunisian-born
French producer,” as Labro describes
him. “I know his work, and he tells me,
‘| wish to do your film.’ I’m like, ‘Sure,
Tarak.’” Then ‘larak—everyone calls
him Tarak—ticked off names and
credentials—a director recommended by
Spielberg; an Oscar-nominated writer
who adapted 7he Color Purple to the
screen. Another pitch, another option.

And then, d@éa vu. Labro, who had
nothing to show for six years and three
options, had wearied of the process. “I
knew the film would never be made, too
bad,” he says. But with thee additional
bestsellers to console him, “I wasn’t
unhappy, | was just very blase, jaded.”
Within six months, however, Tarak
arranged meetings for Labro with both
the screenwriter and director. Finally, he
says, “I knew that these people existed.”
Once he got a copy of the first draft, “the
whole thing was in motion.”

“I draw my hat to T'arak, who did
what the other guys couldn’t do,” Labro
Says. “Why? How? Probably savvy.
Energy. He decided on his own to take
the gamble and pay the option for the
rights and order a screenplay.” Soon,
with a Tunisian financier, a Hungarian-
born, British-raised director, a Dutch
screenwriter, an Italian cinematographer,
and a German actor as the French-born
Protagonist on board, Foreign Student
(minus the Zhe) was up and running.

I related to it—it’s the foreigner’s
Point of view of America,” says Eva
Sereny, an acclaimed photographer in
French fashion and journalism circles
whose first film short, 74e Dress, won the
British Academy of Motion Picture Arts

an . 1 > ‘a
d Sciences award for best short film.

i

When Carthago picked up the rights to
Foreign Student, it was with Sereny in
mind. “It’s the way I see America,” says
the 60ish director, who lives in Rome.

Sereny’s producer, Mark Lombardo,
had never made a movie in his native
United States—and Sereny had never
made a movie, period. Last December,
the pair flew to America to scout
locations in the Carolinas, Georgia, and
elsewhere in Virginia. When they drove
into Lexington after dusk, and found the
Colonnade all lit up, Lombardo said to
Sereny: “We've got to film it here.”

But the script nearly grounded the
project at W&L, where more than half
the film is set. For awhile the school
hesitated to allow the film to shoot on
campus, but a phone call from Labro to
W&L president John Wilson opened the

doors to the filmmakers—that, and the
assurance that the W&L name would
not appear on-screen (the fictitious
Asheland-Stuart combines an old South-
ern name—Asheland—with a reference
to Jeb Stuart).

“I think they trusted Philippe and he
trusted us,” says Lombardo, whose cred-
its as a producer include films some of
EKurope’s greatest directors with names
ending in #: Polanski (Prrazes), Rossellini
(The Messiah), and Zeffirelli.

‘The book, he adds, “wasn’t just about
W&L. Being a foreign student is
absorbing everything—information and
atmosphere and moods. Philippe is ab-
sorbed by friendships, by music, by race
relations, by academics and sports—
there are these things Europeans would
look to America for in the ’50s.”

 

 

lhe Star

“THIS ISA VERY IMPOR
TANT FILM FOR ME,”
MARCO HOFSCHNEIDER
(RIGHT, WETH DIRECTOR
EVA SERENY AND LABRO)
SAYS OF HIS U.S. DEBUT.
“LET'S HOPE TT WON'T BE
THE LAST ONE.”

27

gt pe, SPR ae Oe S aaa QO F T iD We Bs SK

Rob Christenson ’91 and classmate Brad Miller never imagined they'd be
playing football for money—at least, not before they heard about the casting
call for Foreign Student on a Richmond radio station.

In the film, former All-Old Dominion Athletic Conference players
Christenson (at guard) and Miller (at strong safety) play defensive line and
linebacker, respectively, for three opponents of the fictitious Asheland-
Stewart College. While football merits little more than a footnote in Philippe
Labro’s autobiographical novel, the screenplay promises as many as seven
plays, including the climactic scene in which football américain novice Labro
(Marco Hofschneider) throws the winning touchdown amidst a muffed

extra-point attempt.

The producers
came to Richmond,
where much of
| AATEC
shot, searching for
30 guys who looked
and played like °50s-
Seale eime lai (cers
big, but not too big,
with playing ex-
perience and mugs

oa

a
—_ Pel . ;

Semti-tough guys:1991 graduates Brad Miller (55) and

they wouldn’t have
to hide behind a
face mask (back
Rob Christenson (67) play before a cardboard crowd. ad ot he

wear any). Christen-
son and Miller made the team (Doug Lamb ’93, Hofschneider’s stand-in and
a soccer player while at W&L, does the actual kicking in the film). About
400 other hopefuls were sent to the showers early.

In late March, more than two years after Christenson and Miller played
their last down at Wilson Field, practice began at a public park in Richmond.
‘They ran sprints, they did drills, they practiced the same plays time and
again. [The hitting was full-contact, and noses were broken. ‘Vhe practices
“were nothing like [W&L coach Gary] Fallon’s,” says Miller, “but harder
than what I do every day.”

“We didn’t want the guys to think it was just going to be some Hollywood
ett thing,” adds Sean Hevener, the film’s assistant football coordinator.
“All the guys were really into it. It was very real to them.”

It was particularly real for Christenson, who went airborne to block a field
goal for the cameras, only to meet helmet-to-helmet with a teammate
coming from the other direction. “I didn’t know where | was for a while,”
recalls Christenson, chewing on a doughnut between takes in late March. “I
don’t remember three or four plays afterwards, either.”

Miller, a manager with Enterprise Leasing Co., and Christenson, an
auditor for Coopers & Lybrand, each finagled a week off from work to stage
the game scenes at Hampden-Sydney. ‘he $100 a day they earned during
filming (“mostly a lot of standing around,” Miller says) and $50 a day for
practices made the deal a wash financially, but the job had its perks. “We did
manage to mangle Hampden-Sydney’s field,” Christenson notes, smiling.
“That was one big benefit.” —By Michael Badger 91

By the time the camera began rollin
in March, changes had been made

tO the
script that altered the mechanics and

attitude of the story. “We’re doing mor
: . . ” ec
than justice to the script.

With Robin Givens already attached
to the script as the black housekeeper,
that Labro falls in love with, Universal
committed to distributing the film. For
the part of Labro, Marco Hofschneider
was Tarak’s first choice on the basis of
the 1991 arthouse sensation Europa,
Europa. “\ tracked him down, sent him a
plane ticket and had him come up,”
Lombardo recalls. hey looked at about
50 others, many of whom “were more
French looking than him,” but they
ultimately came back to Hofschneider,
“He’s in complete control of his
gestures, his facial expressions, the mood
of the scene,” Lombardo says. “What
you see, in real life, doesn’t do justice to
what he is on the screen.”

At 19, Hofschneider won the lead for
Europa, Europa, his first film, when
producers decided that his brother was
too old for the part. That was four years
ago, and he has since starred in made-
for-television films in his native
Germany and in stage productions of
Romeo and Juliet and The Seagull. But
Foreign Student is only his second big
feature and his first film in English.

Hofschneider spent two months in
Paris preparing for the role—learning a
French accent, learning the English
language, and learning to speak English
with a French accent. “I have a /eefle
French accent, not a strong accent like
Maurice Chevalier,” he says, modulating
his voice convincingly. He got along
famously with his better-known costaf
and on-screen paramour, Robin Givens:
“She was actually very, very nice.”

Givens, alas, had finished her part by
the time Foreign Student rolled into
Lexington May 3 (its 30th day of a 42-
day production) for three days of location
work at Labro’s a/ma mater. Two days
earlier, the production set up camp 4

the former El! Rodeo restaurant, and
y 200

roles)

while wardrobe outfitted nearl
extras (mostly student and faculty
for the W&L shoot, two hairdresse®
snipped and shaped, ’50s style, mors
than 100 heads (mostly male) of halt

 

—

Women were asked to wear their hair in
rollers CO \Monday’s 6 a.m. first call. 5
The first day called for scenes in front
of the Colonnade (“Buck lends a hand,”
in shooting-schedule shorthand) and Lee

Chapel (“Faulkner speaks,” a sequence

featuring | _abro’s sweetie-turned psycho,
played by former “Days of Our Lives”
ingenue Charlotte Ross). Hofschneider
met Labro for the first time on the W&L
campus:
who hasn't seen Europa, Europa,” Labro

“I am one of the few persons

admits. “! understand he’s very good.”
Of the handful of students with
speaking parts, Brian McClung °95
(REDHEAD) has the largest role—three
lines—including, “A Southern gentle-
man always smiles when he says hello.”
(McClung hails from Minnesota.) The
other players include ‘Tom Hooper °93
(LETTERMAN), a history major from
Brownsville, Tenn.; Matt Jennings °93
(SENIOR), a journalism major from
Lexington; and BELLES Jennifer Ray ’94
of Atlanta and Heather Aussiker °94 of
Colorado Springs. Each received Screen
Actors Guild minimum—around $460—
and an on-screen credit for a day’s work.
Senior history major Doug Lamb,
meanwhile, came on board for the entire
film—as Hofschneider’s stand-in and
football double: “The school let me do
it, so | jumped on it.” During filming of
the shower scene inside Doremus Gym-

IW TARY CL

TTS GOOD MONEY,”
SAYS HOFSCHNEIDER’S
DOUBLE, SENIOR DOUG

LAMB, “BUT THE REASON
IWANTED TO DOIT WAS
THE EXPERIENCE. IT’S A
CHANCE-OF-A-LIFETIME-
THING.”

nasium, Lamb inadvertently dropped his
towel, exposing himself in full frame.
“Somebody said, ‘Let’s just keep the
towel on,’ ” he recalls, laughing. (He’s in
another scene, fully clothed, as an extra.)
‘Things got so hot during that scene,
in fact, that the camera lens kept fogging
up. With Buildings and Grounds assis-
tant superintendent Scott Beebe’s per-
mission, the crew broke some windows
to cool things down a bit. (lhings were
back to normal by the next morning.)

Foreign Student wrapped filming—on
schedule and within its $8 million
budget—back in Paris May 13. Editing
will continue through mid-August,
Lombardo says, and “by September 1,
our picture’s ready.” Gramercy Films (a
joint venture of Universal and PolyGram
Pictures) is targeting the movie for a late
winter/early spring 1994 release.

‘The hardest part may still lie ahead.
“It’s not an easy film to market,”
Lombardo admits. “Robin Givens is the
only immediately marketable thing in
this film, but does anybody go to see a
Robin Givens film?” Lombardo is
hopeful the film will play in at least 250
theaters nationwide. “That gives us a
shot.” ‘The film will open around the
same time in Labro’s homeland. “France
is its natural market,” he says, “because
Philippe Labro is well known.”

 

 

aT aaa

“Ik TE DOES SOME GOOD
FOR THE REPUTATION
\ND THE NAME OF THE
SCHOOL, THEN TM
HAPPY,” SAYS PHILIPPE
LABRO, “BECAUSE THE
ADAPTATION IS OUT OF
MY HANDS.”

While it’s an important film for
Hofschneider, Sereny, and Lombardo,
the one person who seems nonplussed
about the entire process is Philippe
Labro, who will see three adaptations of
his works on the big screen over the next
year. Unextinguished Fires, Labro’s 1967
novel based on his experience in the
Algerian war, is scheduled for release in
France this fall. (“Why did they wait so
long to make it into a film?”he asks
rhetorically. “I don’t know.”) Le Petit
Garcon (Labro as an eight-year-old, and
the closest of his works to auto-
biography) begins production this fall.
Down the road, Labro himself is think-
ing of adapting Fifteen, a tale of a 15-
year-old boy’s unrequited love for a 17-
year-old girl in 1950s Paris, into a film.

“When you sell the rights of a novel
to a film company, unless you yourself
are involved in the screenwriting or
directing, you must accept the fact that it
will be different ... and that’s all right,”
he adds. “A movie is not a novel, and a
novel is not a movie.”

The

Generals
Report

By BRIAN LOGUE
AND JAY PLOTKIN ’92

 

The 1993 spring sports season at
Washington and Lee had a rather inaus-
picious debut. A late February snowfall
wiped out the first weekend of action and
with the bad weather that followed,
WEL’s coaching staff spent more time
watching The Weather Channel than
ESPN. But from those humble begin-
nings came a spring to remember.

Mien’s Lacrosse

Going into the final week of the reg-
ular season, there shouldn’t have been
much left to prove for the men’s lacrosse
team. Ihe 10-2 Gener-
als had outscored their
opponents 196-77, and
their victims included
Division III power

   

‘s asas-
LALLA ute

AVUAUUETEDEETE OEE ST ae
ALNALEEETE UT . "EA

CVE <cet S
ALERALLEEL eat om
7° ALEAALAL a> 2s .
qs ae tr UN
‘ v yu
| aa ee
SR 6 ata ce ae®
CWE GRRL .F RE SES LO,
SENNA YO ~ >
+ * rt) Pah , * o& .
7 «vs ‘ " 4%

. a
a®
at . eat
er. »
— >: AW
=% 4.' \ AAS s
. \* \*
\*\*
. ,\*
p>
eX
a” es \
+ ANAS ahs
AAAS yw
Lares
at : ~~
“| be mn *
& .' > xn
a ee a A \ * > AN
- v ar
8B eh BeBe .%

Wiemit Douoguth scores one of his school
record-tying eight goals in WEL’s 18-3 win
over VMI 1n the sixth annual Lee-Jackson

Classic. kor more on Wiemt, see page 33.

30

     
  

Franklin & Marshall,
nationally ranked
Lynchburg, Old Do-
minion Athletic Confer-
ence rival Hampden-
Sydney, and Division |
foe Mt. St. Mary’s. But
10th-ranked W&L
entered the final week
needing a win over
arch-rival Roanoke to
return to the NCAA
tournament.

The bad weather
early on forced the
postponement of the
Roanoke game to the
final week of the sea-
son, and the stage was
set for a thriller. On a
sun-drenched ‘Thursday
afternoon at Wilson Field, the Generals
pulled off a 9-8 upset of third-ranked
Roanoke to the delight of a large W&L
gathering. Senior John Hunter scored
three first-quarter goals to stake W&L
to a lead it would never relinquish and
senior Brian Murtagh was unflappable in
goal, making 18 saves.

‘lwo days later, the Generals romped
over VMI, 18-3, in the sixth annual Lee-
Jackson Classic behind a school record-
tying eight goals from senior Wiem1
Douoguih to finish the regular season
12-2—the most wins for a W&L team
since 1974.

“—_

The wins vaulted W&L into the
tournament quarterfinals at Ohio Wes-
leyan. The game was a defensive Stand-
still for three quarters, and the teams
entered the final quarter tied 4-4. But
two goals in the opening 65 seconds by
the Bishops proved too much for W&q_
to overcome, and the Generals fell 8-7.

ODAC player of the year Douoguih
(page 33) was joined on the all-confer-
ence team by Hunter, Murtagh, and
senior defensemen Josh Levinson and

Kirk Olsen.

Women’s Lacrosse

Head coach Jan Hathorn’s team
couldn’t have asked for much more out
of the 1993 season. ‘The Generals won
the regular-season ODAC title with a
thrilling 10-9 overtime win at Roanoke
on senior Paige Henke’s goal and hosted
the ODAC ‘Tournament.

‘The Generals and Roanoke met for
the second time in a week to decide the
tournament championship. Despite los-
ing star scorer Lisa Dowling to a first-
half injury, W&L maintained a one-goal
lead behind junior Angie Carrington’s
three first-half goals. Roanoke tied the
game at 6-6 with less than two minutes
left, setting the stage for another heart-
stopper. With about 10 seconds left,
Carrington picked up a loose ball at
midfield and raced toward the Roanoke
goal. Carrington fed sophomore Nicole
Ripken, who was open on the crease.
Ripken scored the winning goal with
one second left to give the Generals
their second straight ODAC title and
their first trip to the NCAA ‘Tournament.

‘The Generals (14-3) fell in the quar-
terfinals to eventual national champion
Trenton State, but the 18-4 loss didn’t
dampen the spirit of their best season
ever. Dowling’s 107 points (81 goals, 26
assists) led all of Division III, and the
W&L senior (page 33) was named
ODAC player of the year and a first
team All-American. Senior Ginny
Dallam was first-team All-ODAC and
second-team All-American on defense,
and Carrington was also first-team All-
ODAC and a third-team All-American.
Senior Lisa Jennings was a first-team
All-ODAC pick.

—

Men’s Tennis

The Generals took home their ninth
straight ODAC title, winning eight of
nine flights, and sent two players to the
NCAA Division II] Championships in
Kalamazoo, Mich., to cap a 6-6 season
drastically shortened by rain and snow.

The Generals had seven matches
canceled before heading into the ODAC
courney. W&L junior Robby Mac-
Naughton won every set en route to his
first ODAC title and conference player-
of-the-year honors. W&L also got sin-
gles titles from freshmen Chris Mac-
Naughton (No. 3) and Peter Hammond

 

Junior |

lacNaughton was named Old

Domini tic Conference Player of the
Year afi 1g the Generals to their ninth
Straight ‘itle in men’s tennts.

(4), senior Wes Ruggles (5), and junior
David Schweppe (6). W&L swept the
doubles flights, with Robby Mac-
Naughton and Hammond winning the
top flight. Head coach Gary Franke was
named Coach of the Year.

Having won the Rolex Regional dou-
bles title last fall, Robby MacNaughton
and Hammond solidified their top 10
ranking during the season with a tough
third-ser tiebreaker loss to the top-
ranked MIT team. The pair was ousted
N the first round of the NCAAs by the
tOp team from Kenyon, 7-6, 6-3, to fin-

<i

ish the year at 17-7. MacNaughton,
playing in his first Division III singles
tournament, fell in the opener to Jim
Burns of Emory, 5-7, 6-4, 6-4.

Women’s Tennis

The Generals took seven of nine
flights, their best showing ever, to win
the ODAC Tournament. W&L went
15-4 despite missing one player all sea-
son long due to illness and with junior
captain Kim Dickinson studying in
France during the ODAC tournament.

Playing in her second NCAA
Division III tournament, sophomore
Marilyn Baker reached the quarterfinals
to become W&L’s first women’s tennis
All-American. Baker upset the fourth
seed before falling to eventual tourna-
ment runner-up Katja Zerck of Kenyon.

‘Top seed Baker won ODAC player of
the year honors along with her singles
title. Other singles winners included
freshmen Shelley Sunderman (No. 2),
Julie Ayers (3), and Helen Chandler (4),
and sophomore Leslie Copeland ( 5).
Ayers and Baker teamed to win the first
doubles title and Sunderman and
Chandler won the second doubles title.
Cinda Rankin took ODAC coaching
honors for the third straight year.

Men’‘s Track

Looking for their first conference
championship since 1988, the Generals
finished third in one of the most com-
petitive ODAC meets in years.

Freshman Dax Mahoney was named
outstanding athlete of the meet for the
third time this season after winning the
200- and 400-meter dashes and running
on a winning 4 x 100 relay team. W&L
also got wins at the ODAC from junior
John Robinson (100-meter dash), senior
David Phillips (110-meter hurdles) and
senior Harrison Shull (high jump).

‘The 400-meter relay team of Scott
Covey, Mahoney, Robinson and Phillips
hit NCAA provisional times on two
occasions, but did not get invited to the
nationals. ‘he 1,600-meter relay team of
Mahoney, Robinson, Grant Cowell, and
Phillips set a school record with a time

of 3:18.45, breaking a mile relay record
that had stood since 1939.

Women’s Track

Injuries plagued the Generals during
the latter portion of the spring season for
the second year running, but freshman
Josephine Schaeffer put W&L track on
the national map.

‘The cross country All-American qual-
ified for the NCAA championships in
the 10,000 meter run. Running the race
for only the third time ever, 10th-seeded
Schaeffer rose to the occasion, finishing
second with a school-record time of
36:31 and becoming W&L’s first All-
American in women’s track.

Sophomore Sarah Gilbert was the
team’s top point scorer and became the
firsts W&L woman to compete in the
heptathalon, while freshman Sandra
Holmes set new school records in the
shot put and discus. Junior sprinter
Wendy Neel and sophomore mid-dis-
tance runner Kim Herring should also
return healthy next season.

But injuries stopped the Generals
from winning the ODAC Outdoor
championship after taking the indoor
championship earlier in the year.
Schaeffer won the 1,500- and 3,000-
meter runs at the championship and
Holmes won the javelin.

Golf

It’s not easy replacing three All-
Americans overnight, but that was the
task facing veteran coach Buck Leslie
following 1992’s graduation of Jay
McKnight, Brad ‘Thoburn and Clay
‘Thomas. Undaunted, W&L posted its
22nd consecutive winning season, fin-
ishing third at the ODAC championship
and ranking fifth in the district.

Junior captain Jimmy Kull took home
medalist honors at the 11-team Ship-
builder’s Invitational in mid-April.
Junior Bo Williams placed sixth at the
conference tournament to earn All-
ODAC tourney honors, as did classmate
Pearce Smithwick, who came on strong
to place third in the conference tourney.

31

Playing an everyday lineup of eight
freshmen and sophomores, W&L won
four consecutive games in midseason
before a lack of pitching depth saddled
the team with a 4-15 season.

After opening the season with three
straight losses, the Generals won their
next four games, all thrillers. At Lynch-
burg, W&L rallied for five runs in the
ninth, including senior John Hesse’s
game-winning three-run double, to beat
the Hornets 6-5. In the first game of a
doubleheader against St. Mary’s, the
Generals scored three runs in the sev-
enth to tie the game and force extra
innings and then scored four times in
the bottom of the eighth for a 12-11 win.
Freshman Mark Sappenfield delivered
the game winner with a three-run dou-
ble off the left-field fence.

W&L got solid seasons at the plate
from Hesse, the team’s only senior (.333,
nine doubles, 12 RBI); sophomore third
baseman Duane Van Arsdale (.329, 11
RBI) and sophomore designated hitter
Bates Brown (3 HR). With three wins

and one save, freshman pitcher Graig
Fantuzzi was involved in all four W&L
victories. Fantuzzi and sophomore Brett
Hartman combined to pitch more than 60
percent of the team’s innings this season.

Fall Football:
Bermuda Bound

W&L’s 1993 football schedule in-
cludes 10 games this fall—five at home,
four away, and one way, way away. ‘The
Generals’ season opens Sept. 11 at
Emory & Henry. After a week off, the
team returns to Wilson Field for its
home opener Sept. 25 against Centre.
Other home games include Davidson
(Oct. 9), Bridgewater (Oct. 30), Guilford
(Nov. 6), and Catholic (Nov. 13).

‘The remainder of the away schedule
finds the team traveling to Randolph-
Macon (Oct. 2), Hampden-Sydney (Oct.
16), Sewanee (Oct. 23)—and then the
mother of all road trips, to Hamilton,
Bermuda, for the first annual Bermuda
Bowl Nov. 20 against Georgetown (for
more information, see page 55).

 

Mien’s Lacrosse (12-3)

utc ele a or’,

Women’s Lacrosse (14-3)

Women’s Track (10-5)

Golf (9-4-2)

Men’s Tennis (6-6) Baseball (4-15)

Women’s Tennis (15-4)

hr

Wiiemi) and L(isa) Put the
Ww&L Back in Lacrosse

Springtime at Washington and Lee
means man) things to many people—
and lacrosse to almost everyone. It’s
pretty neal impossible to walk across
campus without seeing some reminder
of the sport: a hat, or a ‘T-shirt, or just
friends having a catch.

Lacrosse is as much a part of the
W&L experience as any number of
time-honored traditions, but this spring
was more special than most: Both the
men’s and women’s teams qualified for
the NCAA tournament simultaneously
for the first time in W&L history,
thanks in large part to two prolific senior
scorers whose names begin with D.

Both Wiemi Douoguih and Lisa
Dowling came into the 1993 season hop-
ing for big years, but neither could have
anticipated what transpired. Dowling
was the club’s top scorer as a sophomore
and junior, but she played in the shadow
of Kimberly Bishop, the school’s all-
time leading scorer until this year.
Douoguih scored 25 goals in 1992 while
Jeff Roberts grabbed most of the head-
lines as a second-team All-American.

But as the spotlight shifted their way,
Dowling and Douoguith were more than
ready to score. Dowling finished as the
nation’s leader in goals (81) and points
(107) while rewriting the W&L record
book. Dowling finished her career as
W&L’s record holder in goals, assists,
and points for a game, season, and
Career. She scored 11 goals in a win over
Hollins and had at least six goals on
seven occasions this season.

Douoguih, meanwhile, was enjoying
4 solid season before catching fire at the
end of the year. The left-handed attack-
Man scored 28 goals in his last six
Sames, including a record-tying eight-
Boal blitz against VMI. He finished with
99 goals on the season, third-best in
Schoo! history, and 101 career goals, also
the third best mark in W&L history.

Despite success in their new roles,
becoming the go-to scorer took some
getting used to for both. “The hardest
thing to learn is to take advantage of the
green light and when to pull the ball
out,” says Douoguth. “As I grew in con-
fidence, then I became more comfort-
able scoring. But I still went into every
game not knowing if I could do it.”

“Some games I felt I shouldn’t be
scoring so much,” adds Dowling. “But |
didn’t come into the games expecting to
do that and my teammates knew |
wasn’t just trying to rack up my stats.”

Of course, having one big scorer on
the team doesn’t always translate into
wins. But while Dowling and Douoguth
certainly didn’t take their teams to the
NCAAs by themselves, both were inte-
gral to W&L’s good fortune. It was
especially sweet for Douoguih, who sat
out of school for a year and missed
W&L’s trip to the NCAAs in 1991. “I
had mixed feelings that year,” he
admits. “I wanted the team to win, but

nd Lisa Dowling made }

 

ices for themselves in the

val as

it hurt not being a part of it.”

The playoff berth also had extra
meaning because it almost didn’t hap-
pen. Despite an outstanding season,
W&L needed to beat Roanoke in the
penultimate game to put themselves in
position to reach the tournament. When
the Generals prevailed 9-8, all the
spring social events that the lacrosse
players missed out on were quickly for-
gotten. “It’s so much of a better feeling
to beat a Roanoke or to make the play-
offs,” says Douoguih. “You realize that
the sacrifices you made were worth it.”

Reaching the NCAAs was probably
the last thing on Dowling’s mind when
she came to W&L as a freshman, only
the second year the school fielded a var-
sity women’s team. That squad finished
the season 10-7, but a lot has changed in
four years. “Looking back, I don’t know
how we didn’t go crazy,” says Dowling.
“It was fun to help build the program
and watch it grow. I’m amazed at how
far we’ve come.” —By Brian Logue

33

V&L Law

Bezanson to Step Down
As Law School Dean

Randall P. Bezanson, dean of the
Washington and Lee School of Law
since 1988, has announced his intention
to step down effective July 1, 1994.
Following his deanship, Bezanson will
retain his faculty rank as a full tenured
professor at W&L.

“The past five years have been a
time for considerable change at the law
school,” Bezanson said in making his
announcement. “We enjoy a student
body of increasing diversity and excel-
lent personal and academic qualifica-
tions, a truly outstanding faculty whose
impressive scholarly and professional
accomplishments have not diverted
them from our central focus on educa-
tion, and a distinguished and growing
national reputation.”

Bezanson noted that the law school
endowment campaign, part of the Uni-
versity’s $127 million capital campaign,
coupled with significant growth in the
Annual Fund has laid the groundwork
for a secure future for the law school.

“For these reasons I believe this will
be an opportune moment for change,”
he continued. “A new dean with a
renewed faculty consensus and renewed
energy can provide the leadership need-

 

Photo: Robert Akins

34

 

 

ed for further change at the law school.”

“Dean Bezanson has given us a
splendidly effective tenure and will
leave the deanship after six years with a
markedly improved and strengthened
school of law,” said W&L President
John D. Wilson.

Bezanson’s tenure at W&L has been
characterized by his devotion to an edu-
cation program that is intimate in scale,
centered on the written word, marked
by intellectual breadth as well as profes-
sional rigor and built upon a foundation
of honor, commitment to the dignity of
each individual, and public service.

“We shall miss his leadership in the
school, but also his good counsel on a
whole host of questions unrelated to
law,” Wilson said. “He is a valued col-
league and a caring friend.” Wilson will
meet with the law faculty to set out pro-
cedures for the search for Bezanson’s
successor as soon as possible.

Bezanson received both B.S. and B.A.
degrees from Northwestern University.
He received his J.D. degree from the
University of lowa College of Law. He
served as law clerk to Judge Roger Robb
of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia for a year before
becoming clerk to Justice Harry A.
Blackmun of the U.S. Supreme Court.
Bezanson returned to the University of
Iowa in 1973 to teach in its law school.
He was promoted to full professor in
1979. He also served a five-year term at
lowa as vice president for finance before
coming to Washington and Lee.

Retired Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr.
‘29, '31L, and his longtime secre-
tary Sally Smith were joined by
the Baltimore Orioles mascot at a
recent game. (Law librarian Sarah
K. Wiant ‘78 and Pamela J. White
‘77 were also in attendance.)
Powell also met director Alan
Pakula at his Washington (D.C.)
office to discuss a bird of a differ-
ent feather: the film adaptation of
John Grisham's bestselling The
Pelican Brief, starring newlywed
Julia Roberts.

  

R. William Ide IIT 62

ABA President Joins
Distinguished Company

R. William Ide III 62, a partner with
Long, Aldridge & Norman in Atlanta,
was elected president of the American
Bar Association for the 1993-94 bar year.
When Ide takes the gavel in August, he
becomes the sixth W&L graduate in 10]
years to head the nation’s oldest and
largest governing body of lawyers.

Ide graduated from Washington and
Lee cum laude with a B.A. in history. He
went on to receive his LL.B. from the
University of Virginia in 1962, and
earned an MBA from Georgia State
University 10 years later.

Ide’s W&L predecessors as ABA
president include the following: /892-
93: John Randolph ‘Tucker 1871L; /904-
05: Henry St. George Tucker 1875,
1876L; 1922-23: John W. Davis 1895L;
1934-35: Scott M. Loftin 1899L; and
1964-65: Lewis F. Powell Jr. °29, °31L.

 

The W@L Connection: John Randolph
Lucker was ABA president 101 years ago.

ll

 

From the Law Alumni President

For years, concerns have been
expressed by many that law students do
not graduate with an appropriate appre-
ciation of the unique character of
Washington and Lee. As a result, there
‘s a continuing effort to assimilate law
students into the undergraduate experi-
ence at W&L. At the same time, gradu-
f the College and the Law School
ewed as one monolithic group of

ates O
are V1
alumni with few, if any, distinguishing
characteristics.

From my three-year Law School
experience coupled with my nine years
on the Law Council, however, I am con-
vinced that the vast majority of law
graduates have a much greater apprecia-
tion of W&L than ts generally recog-
nized. In fact, I believe it is safe to state
that a majority of Law School graduates
have a greater affinity for Washington
and Lee than for their undergraduate
alma maters, although it varies from the
undergraduate love for the University
because law graduates are very different
from undergraduates. The move from
Tucker Hall underlies a relatively small
part of this difference, but the move
serves as a convenient excuse that pre-
vents analysis of more significant factors.

The average age of the Law School
student body is approximately 26 1/2,
whereas the average age of the under-
graduate student body is approximately
20. In addition, law students come from
much more diverse ethnic and economic
backgrounds than students in the
College, and they tend to approach law
Studies more seriously than undergradu-
ates approach their courses. Differing
school calendars also contribute to the
Separation between the College and the
Law School; even the graduation cere-
monies are now separate. Finally, and
Perhaps most importantly, double-
degree holders (seven-year men and
women) constitute fewer than 10 per-
cent of those graduating from the Law
School since 1974. Individuals who hold
pally law degrees will eventually com-
Prise more than 20 percent of living

<i

graduates from the University, given
present admission patterns; they
presently comprise more than 15 per-
cent of all living graduates.

Regardless of the reasons, it is simply
a fact that because of differences
between students in the College and
Law School in terms of ages and back-
grounds, law graduates tend to view the
University differently. They have some-
what different philosophical anchors and

It is safe to state that a majority

NE UNOKD ETE M IRI
sreater affinity for WAL than for

their undergraduate alma maters.

 

perspectives than undergraduates, but
that does not mean their appreciation of
Washington and Lee is wrong. The
affinity is simply different, but the love
is there to be nurtured.

Hand-wringing over this difference is
fruitless. It must be accepted and
addressed because it is a reality that will
not disappear, just as coeducation was a
reality that was accepted. This differ-
ence provides diversity that can and
should result in greater strength. In
addition to broadening the potential
number of supporters of the University,
having fewer double-degree holders
expands awareness of the existence of
the College and increases the base from
which its students are drawn. For exam-
ple, many children of those who hold
degrees only from the Law School have
attended or are attending the College.

Over the last few years, the Law
Alumni Association (founded in 1953
and known as the Law School Associa-
tion until 1991) and its governing body,
the Law Council, have focused more
upon the concerns of law alumni. While
the Law Alumni Association has much
that remains to be accomplished, the

needs of the Law School and the con-
‘erns of its graduates are being
addressed by the University. For exam-
ple, contributions to the Annual Fund
by law graduates are now applied direct-
ly to benefit the Law School, which will
also be the beneficiary of approximately
20 percent of the capital campaign.

As Mason New’s letter elsewhere in
this issue states, it is a goal of both the
Alumni Association and the Law Alumni
Association to work together to rein-
force the ties of all alumni to the
University, thereby strengthening both
the College and the Law School.
Substantial progress is being achieved in
this effort, as indicated by a marked
increase (as of April 30) in Annual Fund
contributions from both College and
Law School graduates, and participation
may be 40 percent or more by June 30
for both groups. The class agents and
Annual Fund officers have done a great
job. However, the peer institutions of
the College and the Law School have
Annual Fund participations in excess of
50 percent, which is one factor consid-
ered in the U.S. News @ World Report
rankings. We can and must do better to
ensure Washington and Lee measures
up in this regard because, contrary to
popular misconception, W&L is not
well endowed relative to its peers.

A challenge has been issued by the
Law Alumni Association and the Alumni
Board of Directors that creates some
friendly and healthy competition
between undergraduate and law alumni.
‘The group with the greater percentage
of Annual Fund participation as of
Friday, May 13, 1994, will see its presi-
dent pulled to the door of Lee Chapel
in the conveyance of his choice by the
president of the losing group at the joint
meeting on Reunion Weekend, but only
if the winner has participation of 45 per-
cent or more. Double-degree holders
who split their gifts will count as con-
tributors to both groups.

This should be a year of fun for grad-
uates of both the Law School and the
College, as well as a year of accelerating

QO

progress for Washington and Lee.

Charlie ‘Tomm ’68, ’75L, President
WEL Law Alumni Assoctation

35

Alumni News

Hall of Fame Taps Bauer,
Maatman, Meem, and
Pinck for Fall Induction

Four W&L greats representing two
different eras have been selected as the
Class of 1993 for the Washington and
Lee Athletic Hall of Fame.

‘The inductees are Ted Bauer °74, a
three-time All-America lacrosse player;
Jerry Maatman ’78, W&L’s first golf
All-American; Gil Meem °38, a record-
setting swimmer; and Dick Pinck ’41, a
star football, basketball, and tennis
player. The quartet will be honored in
Lexington during Hall of Fame Week-
end, Sept. 24-26.

led Bauer helped put Washington
and Lee on the national lacrosse map
during the 1970s. A three-time first-
team All-American—one of only two

 

W&L players so honored—he still
ranks among the school’s all-time lead-
ing scorers. Bauer went on to represent
the United States at the 1974 World
Lacrosse Championships, and last year
the Baltimore native became the first
W&L graduate to be inducted into the
National Lacrosse Foundation Hall of
Fame. |

During his career, the Generals
defied the odds and played with the
heavyweights of lacrosse. In his four

36

years the Generals went 51-7, reaching
the Division I national tournament in
1972, 1973 and 1974 and the semifinals
in ’73 and ’74. At his induction to the
Lacrosse Hall of Fame, coach Jack
Emmer said: “Of that whole decade
when Washington and Lee was per-
ceived as David slaying many Goliaths,
the best of the best was ‘Teddy Bauer.”
In four years as a golfer at W&L,

Jerry Maatman played 50 dual match-

es, never losing once. His play vaulted
the Generals into the national champi-

 

onship picture in 1977 with a seventh-
place showing at the NCAA
‘Tournament. Maatman finished fifth
individually to become W&L’s first
golf All-American.

In 1978, Maatman was named the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
Golfer of the Year and finished third at
the national championship to repeat as
a first team All-American. During that
tournament, he shot a then-record 69 at
the Wooster Country Club, the second
course record he set during the year.

Maatman was named All-ODAC all
four years and was W&L’s most valu-
able player three times. ‘The Wilmette
(Ill.) native graduated magna cum laude
and received an NCAA postgraduate
scholarship.

Gil Meem was the standout swimmer
during W&L’s
Southern Conference championships
from 1935 to 1938. During the 1937 reg-
ular season, Meem was undefeated in

four-year run of

 

the 220- and
440-yar d
freestyle
events and
Captured
South ern
Conference
titles in both
events. The
Bluefield
(W.Va.) native established a new
Southern Conference record in the 440.

As a senior, Meem led the Southern
Conference meet in scoring for a sec-
ond consecutive year by winning the
50-yard freestyle, 150-yard backstroke
and swimming on W&L’s winning 300-
yard medley relay team. During
Meem’s four-year career, the Generals
did not lose a dual meet.

Dick Pinck made an impact on the
W&L athletic program from the
moment he stepped on campus. Pinck
was named the freshman all-state quar-
terback and
repeated as
an all-state
basketball
selection
while lead-
ing the fresh-
man basket-
ball team to
an undefeat-
ed season.

‘The Paterson (N.J.) native eventual-
ly earned nine varsity letters in foot-
ball, basketball and tennis. His football
career was plagued by injuries, and he
was expected to miss the entire 1938

 

season after an operation, but Pinck
returned a punt 88 yards to provide the
only scoring in a win over Virginia
Tech in mid-season. On the basketball
court, Pinck led the Generals in scoring
three straight years, earning all-state
honors all three years and helping
Washington and Lee to a state champi-
onship in 1940. He scored a Southern
Conference record 34 points as 4
sophomore against Richmond, a W&L
record that stood for 12 years. In tennis,
he played No.1 singles and was team
captain in 1941.

The 1993 Athletic Hall of Fame
banquet will be held Friday, Sept. 24-

 

 

—

Graduating Sons and Daughters of Alumni

aera)
*

 

hard P. Laskey °57, William P. Coffin ’65L, Consider Ross ’71, Frederick H. Belden Jr. '60, Isaac N. Smith Jr. °57

kro I
‘01 ‘er 66, ’69L, Stephen H. Suttle ’62, S. Wesley Pipes IV ’64, grandfather Ralph O. Harvey Jr. 33, and father Ralph O.
Hart row: bachelor’s degree recipients Peter Laskey, Bill Coffin, Stephen Ross, Derick Belden, Lyle Smith, David McWhorter,
John Pipes, and Chandler Harvey.

 

Front DuBose Ausley °59, Mahlon D. Woodring ’55 , Robert D. Hart Jr. ’63, Leshe C. Rucker Jr. ’64, E. Randolph Wootton Jr.
64, Jo on 68, °71L., Leroy C. Atkins II ’68, Henry M. Sackett III ’64, John K. Jennings ’56, and David K. Fraser ’62. Back row:
bache: ipients Allison Ausley, Andrew Woodring, Daniel Hart, Susan Rucker, Susan Wootton, Caroline Dawson, Drewry Atkins,
Chris t Jennings, and Kathy Fraser.

 

”

Front lfather Bruce T. Bullion Sr. ’35, fathers Gus B. Walton Jr. ’64, Michael S. McCord ’65, R. Thomas Edwards Ill ’63, Robert
A. Vir Raleigh R. Archer ’61, Charles B. Rowe ’64L, John H. West [Il ’65, °70L, David Lefkowitz [Il ’61, Walter H. Lee Jr. ’61,
63L, Barton III ’63. Back row: bachelor’s degree recipients Layton Walton, Robyn McCord, Evans Edwards, Christopher Vinyard,
Patri lazewell Rowe, James West, David Lefkowitz IV, Carter Lee, and Susan Barton.

oT

t

ae
Pat
| oe

a yj

Seah

ete eS

  

Fron, Afather William Jennings °42, fathers John E. Law degree recipients —Walter L. Hannah '50, and daughter Nancy;
Jenni surice R. Fliess ’66. Tame Fowler 63. lamec A Daniel T. Balfour ’63, ’65L, and daughter Amy; Raleigh R. Archer
Groth Back row: Bachelor’s degree recipients John Refo, 61, and daughter Beckwith; and Rudolph Bumgardner Ill ’66L,
Mar isa Jennings, Kevin Fhiess, Scott Fowler, and Taylor and son Dutch.

Groth ire John F.. Refo ’63 and Joseph B. Geyer "48L. -

40 Years with the Class of '53

 

Gray Castle, left, and Parker Smith have big plans for the Class of ’53 between now and 2003.

Coulling Remembers
‘Things Past’ at Reunion

Professor of English emeritus Sidney
M.B. Coulling III °46 inaugurated
W&L’s largest reunion weekend ever
with his impressions of a half-century of
W&L history in Lee Chapel May 8, His
talk was titled “Remembrance of
‘Things Past: W&L, 1939-1988.”

When the Class of °43 entered Wash-
“Franklin Roosevelt
was in his second term, and Bill Clinton

ington and Lee,

had not yet been born,” Coulling said.
When the Class of °88 graduated, “the
Berlin Wall and the Soviet Union were
on the verge of collapse.

“... But in all of the changes the
University has been faithful to its past
while remaining true to its pledge to
look to the future. ‘The white columns
still stand, symbols of stability and of
the University’s enduring ideals: to edu-
cate young people in a climate of trust
and integrity, of humane and civilized
values, and in a tradition reminding
them daily that where there are rights
and privileges there are also duties and
responsibilities, and that therefore much
is expected of those to whom much has
been given. And high over the columns
still presides Old George, now so mind-
ful of the future that he’s impervious to
woodpeckers, but with a gaze forever
fixed on the mountains that two cen-
turies ago separated a struggling little
academy from the more refined East
and thus elicited the sympathetic inter-
est of our first great benefactor.”

 

7 touch of classes.

 

 

2
~
&
-—

<r *
sae

 

 

 

     

 
 

The Class of 1943
Sth Reunion Fund ate

 

 

 

The \ lurner 58 (lett). dean
ot the School at Yale,

pre SG moTnNING S€TVICES ai
Rf}: ‘rth May 9 alongsid
clere d yf °5 >. ncludin:

the R. May (right), rector

St. Ja Marietta, Ga

 

 

( Jl€€7 ‘OT UAaATIE Vac: Richmond

l'imes-Dispatch columnist Chat

| j f fy 4A (cernond tron fi
a si J itd ii:

 

i NOU la ple r PTeSIa (
j J j } j 1 oy i 1lé7a
‘4 “SU 1/e) R havi
7a f ai Le ( Le ‘
Lexi) ”) , Nena) ¥7 7) , / j } 41d f j wl
M !
UcM } 4 j Dai ; Ua / TDi 7 j (PPI ANG /
tha a “Ty hh ata a pa ) A / 70) QQ)) 7 }
held : ii 7/ Wiad alu }, 7 7 ; d J é é i é ‘ ‘ ‘
Apn
VTi d OFF@7TCaA Aa: / ‘ ( ’ ’ ; :

this fy
The)

n General

ae

| center

\

—_

A Sit-Down Celebration
Happy 40th Birthday to the W&L Chair

 

Jurassic Party: The Chair is entering middle age, but it’s not a dinosaur just yet.

John Alexander Graham °14 belongs
to an earlier generation of Washington
and Lee history. He joined the
Romance language department in
1919, five years after his graduation,
but his contributions to the University
didn’t stop there. As a composer, He
wrote a number of W&L ditties—
“Fight! Fight! Blue and White” and
“Hold ’em Gen’rals” among them—
which were included in the 1932 col-
lection Songs of Washington and Lee
(published by Thornton W. Allen 713,
co-author of the “Washington and Lee
Swing”). In addition, he directed the
W&L Glee Club as well as the first
performance of the ‘Troubadours, the
W&L dramatic society. “Few things of
merit in the fields of literature, music,
art, or the theater failed to elicit his
interest,” the A/umni Magazine wrote
upon his death in 1947.

Several years earlier, Graham was
the impetus behind the Wedgewood
plates with scenes of the University,
taking many photographs of campus to
capture just the right images (the orig-
inal set of eight scenes has since been
reduced to four, and remain available
through the University Bookstore).

40

And so it was that, when the chair was
introduced in 1953, six years after
Graham ’s death, and a scholarship
fund was created for the proceeds, the
father of the commemorative plate
was a natural selection to be honored
by the commemorative chair.

With its distinctive W&L crest and
maybe an inscribed plaque, the
Washington and Lee chair—like the
one you're relaxing in right now—has
become one of the best-recognized
symbols of the University and the all-
purpose W&L gift—suitable for dads
and grads alike. ‘(he chair has become
the standard University retirement
gift to members of W&L’s faculty and
staff, and when Charlie McDowell °48
received the Lynchburg Citation over
the mountain recently, he received a
W&L chair as well.

But this accounts but for a fraction
of total sales, which remain fairly
steady from year to year. In 1991, 71
chairs and 31 rockers (which were
added in 1977) were sold; in 1992, 72
chairs and 33 rockers. And each year,
approximately $6,000 is drawn from a
bank account to endow the John A.
Graham °14 Scholarship Fund.

‘The chairs are made by S. Bent &
Bros. Inc. of Gardner, Mass., which
started out making three-legged stools
for textile mills in 1867, two years
after the Civil War ended. Today it
boasts close to 2,000 accounts—pri-
marily colleges and universities, bur
also high schools, businesses, and relj-
gious organizations—and that’s largely
thanks to a man named Ron Bent.
Bent designed the prototype for the
academic chair—called the captain’s
chair or general’s chair—and present-
ed it to his a/ma mater, MIT. “Every
captain’s chair since has been a copy
of that design,” according to market-
ing director Tom Quinn.

But why are chairs so popular? As
Quinn explains, “There are few tradi-
tional quality products that someone
would put in their home as an heir-
loom.” Like a lower-end recognition
item, such as a clock or a lamp, a chair
“becomes a piece that is identifiable
with the University. And,” he is quick
to point out, “it’s also functional.”

For some time, shipping the chairs
and rockers created a great many
headaches for the alumni office: “I
felt like I was in the Teamsters for
awhile,” says James D. Farrar Jr. ’74,
director of alumni programs, “but I
learned a lot about the shipping busi-
ness.” Then Bent became the first
academic chair manufacturer to put its
full-size armchairs and rockers in a
UPS-shippable carton, and the aver-
age shipping cost is rolled into every-
one’s bill.

Now, because this is the A/umni
Magazine, and because there’s always
been a chair ad for 40 years now,
here’s the pitch: The armchair, in
black lacquer with cherry arms or dark
pine, is $235; the Boston rocker, in
black lacquer or dark pine, is $220.
Both are available through Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington,
VA 24450.

And if you see one, wish it a happy
birthday.

—
Class Notes

9

cKall R. Bruin Jr.
. s that for the last 25 years, he
nters in Mexico and
his beef cattle farm

—
has spent his w!
his summers on

in Draper, V2.

‘29
James J. Salinger

has moved to Silver Spring, Md., to
be closer to his son in Bethesda.

SIL

Kenneth Bank
is retired and living in Baltimore.

2
John D. Clothier Jr.

is 85 years old and living in
Williamsburg, Va.

Allan §. DeLand

has lived in the ‘North Country’ for
20 years. Due to a foot problem, he
has given up cross-country skiing
and plans to move to a retirement
community. He lives in New
London, N.H.

‘33

Dr. T. Kerr Laird

has moved to King’s Grant
Retirement Community in
Martinsville, Va. He continues to
travel, garden, and do woodwork,
but he is allowing someone else to
cut the grass and clean the gutters.

’

34
Daniel B. Startsman
recently celebrated his 80th birth-
day with his family in Terrace Park,
Ohio. He reports that he still sings
with the St. Paul Lutheran Church
Choir and is enjoying his retirement
to the fullest.

37L

Harry T. Moreland

and his wife. Mary, have moved to

Brandon Oaks Retirement
Mmunity in Roanoke.

38

George F. Bauer Jr.
's fetired and living in Middletown,
hio. He travels frequently, includ-

ing a three-week trip to Russia in
March 1992.

Dr. Floyd R. Mays Jr.
is enjoying his retirement in Big
Spring, Texas.

Alphonse J. Sherman

is retired and living in Bridgeport,
Conn., where he spends most of his
time fishing, boating, and playing
racquetball.

Col. John H. Shoaf

is an honorary vice counsel-commer-
cial attache to the Republic of
Guatemala. He reports working
feverishly for the election of Bill
Clinton and once again retiring. He
lives in The Woodlands, Texas.

’
39

The Hon. George F. McInerney

is the senior justice of the Supreme

Court of Suffolk County, N.Y. He

has been a judge in the County and
Supreme Courts for 30 years.

Donald C. Smith

is enjoying his retirement in
Summerfield, Fla., with his wife of
53 years.

’

40
Charles C. Curl Jr.
is enjoying the good life with trips
to France and Idaho, fishing, hunt-
ing, tennis, and golf. He lives in St.
Simon Isle, Ga.

Maj. Gen. Franklin A. Nichols
is retired and living in El Paso,
‘Texas, where he enjoys playing golf.

William M. Read

is the chairman of the board for
Pacific Clinics, a not-for-profit men-
tal health agency serving children
and adults regardless of their ability
to pay. He lives in Flintridge, Calif.

John C. Williams

is retired and living in Easley, S.C.
He is married with two children,
two grandchildren, and two great-
grandchildren.

41,

The Hon. George F. McInerney
See °39.

Alphonse J. Sherman
See °38.

’

4.2
Walter C. Aberg Jr.
lives with his wife, Mary, on their
ranch in Rosston, ‘Texas, where he
raises horses, cattle, buffalo, and
owns the usual complement of cats
and dogs.

John Barrie Jr.
is retired and living in Laguna
Beach, Calif.

Robert A. Lawton

lives in Central City, Okla., and
reports seeing Stuart Hunt *42 ona
visit to Southern Methodist
University. The pair had not seen
each other in more than 50 years.

421,

Samuel B. Read
is semi-retired and living in Catlett,
Va., where he raises angus beef.

’
43

S L Kopald Jr.

is a recipient of the 1993 Memphis
State University Distinguished
Alumni Award, as a distinguished
friend of the University. He was a
charter member of the MSU
Foundation and served on MSU’s
Fogelman College of Business and
Economics executive advisory coun-
cil. He and his wife, Mimi, live in
Memphis and Palm Desert, Calif.

John R. Ligon

is retired and living in Cantonment,
Fla., where he fishes, golfs, and
bowls year-round. He and his wife
have four children and 15 grandchil-
dren.

Donald L. Richardson
lives in Auburn Hills, Mich., and
now has two great grandsons.

’
44
Dr. Frederick W. Bauer

is retired and living with his wife,
Ethel, in Wayne, N.J.

’
45

Robert E. Norman

is retired and living in Wheeling,

W.Va., where he works with the

National Football Players

Association. Norman travels

throughout West Virginia putting on

a one-act play that discourages the

use of drugs and alcohol.

’

46
David P. Hauseman
is retired and living in Lakeland.
Fla., where he enjoys golf and
duplicate bridge. He has 11 grand-
children.

’

4/
Thomas O. Mayberry
is retired and living in Harbor
Springs, Mich., where he enjoys
golfing and is involved with a hospi-
tal board and other charitable orga-
nizations.

The Rev. L. Roper Shamhart
is archdeacon of Queens and also
serves on the National Asiamerica
Ministries Commission of the

Episcopal Church. He recently
returned from a trip to the Mar
‘Thoma Church, the Church of
North and South India, where he
represented the Diocese of Long
Island at the enthronement of the
new archbishop of Seoul and the
establishment of the province of
Korea.

’

48
Walton W. Kingsbery Jr.
is a retired partner of Price
Waterhouse. He now consults with
the New Jersey attorney general and
is a trustee and treasurer of his golf

club. He and his wife, Betty, live in
Spring Lake, N.]J.

Gilbert H. Wilson

has retired from the Virginia Beach
law firm of Preston, Wilson &
Crandley after 40 years of civil trial
practice. He reports that he and his
wife of 50 years, Hilda, are still
going strong.

’
49

William A. Chipley

is retired and living in Lookout

Mountain, Tenn. Bill reports enjoy-

ing his retirement, but says it is dri-

ving his wife crazy.

Harry Harding

is a manager of consultant sales with
Fischkorn Inc. and a senior warden
in the Episcopal Church. He and his
wife, Jeanne, have six children and
live in Roanoke Rapids, N.C.

William C. Ruble

is retired and living in Lexington,
Va., where he writes a column for
The News-Gazette titled “A Bird’s
Eye View.”

C. Tait Trussell

was awarded the Benjamin Fine
Journalism Award for outstanding
education reporting. He lives in
Eustis, Fla.

AOL,

Gilbert H. Wilson
See °48.

’

50
John R. Baldwin
is retired and living in Yuma, Ariz.,
where he is chairman of volunteers
in the emergency room of Yuma
Regional Medical Center. He
schedules 45 volunteers in 56 four
hour shifts, seven days a week.

John I. Carper

is enjoying his 10th year of retire-
ment by serving as president of the
Virginia Beach Seniors Golf Club.

41

51
Robert E. Glenn,
a member of the Roanoke law firm
Glenn, Flippin, Feldmann & Darby,
has been elected president of the
Virginia Board of Bar Examiners,
which prepares and administers the
bar exam in Virginia.

J. Hunter Lane Jr.

was appointed to the board of direc-
tors of the Memphis Housing
Authority for a six-year term. The
board supervises the operation of
public housing in Memphis.

Richard E. McMurran

lives in Newport News, Va., and
serves on the board of directors of
the International Seaman’s Friend
House of the Lower Virginia
Peninsula and the Tidewater area
Kidney Patient Association.

James A. Snyder

retired in 1991 after 25 years in the
Air Force and 15 years in association
management. He lives in Shalimar,
Fla., where he plays golf, putters in
the garden, and is active in business
development with his son.

SIL
James C. Lee
is still having fun practicing law in
Chattanooga, Tenn., and is listed in
The Best Lawyers in America. He and
his wife, Susannah, have two daugh-
ters and four grandsons.

52
Joseph J. Eisler
owns Joseph J. Eisler Associates, a
management consulting firm. He is
also president of the Carpet

Information Service. Both firms are
in Berwyn, Pa.

Dr. Echols A. Hansbarger Jr.
is the director of labs at St. Francis
Hospital in Charleston, W.Va. He
has no plans to retire and reports
that President Clinton cannot force
him out.

S2L

Joseph B. Yanity Jr.
completed 40 years of law practice
in Athens, Ohio, last March. He
plans to continue working and
enjoying it.

53
Darrold A. Cannan Jr.
is president of Cannan
Communications Inc., licensee of
television stations KANR (NBC) in
Amarillo and KBVO (Fox) in Austin.
He has three children and seven

grandchildren and lives in Wichita
Falls, ‘Texas.

Dr. Alexander De Volpi

is a fellow of the American Physical
Society and travels frequently to the
former Soviet Union, where he deals
with arms control treaties.

Robert 1. Goodman

is on the District Eight Health
Council for Southwest Florida. He
has four children and one grandson
and lives in Longboat Key, Fla.

Peter J. Kurapka Jr.

is retired and living with his wife,
Marian in Cantonsville, Md. He
stays active by traveling extensively,
attending W&L Alumni Colleges,
and studying history and family her-
itage. Kurapka is also an officer in
the local, state, and regional compo-
nents of the Sons of Confederate
Veterans.

Robert J. Maccubbin

has retired as chairman emeritus of
Rogers-American Co. He plans to
travel and work on his golf handicap
with his wife, Connie. They live in
Charlotte.

The Rev. Edward J. Newhaker
is retired and living in Greensburg,
Pa.

DIL

Robert E. Glenn
See °51.

J. Hunter Lane Jr.
See °51.

one
54

Dr. Roy T. Matthews Jr.

is the co-author of 74e Western

Humanities, which won an award

from Bookbuilders West for its

design, layout, and interaction

between the text and illustrations.
He lives in Okemos, Mich.

Jack A. Sites

retired from Goodyear Tire and
Rubber Co. after 36 years, the last
four of which were spent in
Brussels, Belgium. He and his wife,
Pat, have bought a house in
Carrollton, ‘Texas, and plan to
divide their time between their trav-
els and their vacation home in
Colorado.

> _

wan

William H. Bartsch

lives in Novato, Calif., where he
works as a consultant and writes mil-
itary history books.

John F. Davis

is the facility and operations manag-
er for Code 710 Space ‘Technology
Division and security coordinator for
Code 700 Engineering Directorate
for Goddard Space Flight Center in
Silver Spring, Md.

Joseph F. Rowe
is in his third year of real estate
finance business in Hampton, Va.

Dr. John A. Rutherford

of Radford, Va., recently published a
new book titled More Cowboy
Shooting Stars, which is available
from Empire Publishing Inc.

Leroy H. Simkins Jr.

is president of the Simkins Land
Co., which is involved in land and
timber investments. He lives in
Augusta, Ga., and enjoys shooting,
fishing, and golf. He is also involved
with several urban forest improve-
ment projects.

_ -

55L

Peter J. Kurapka Jr.
See °53.

-
56
William H. Fishback Jr.
received the first Distinguished
Service Award from the College
News Association of Virginia and
the District of Columbia at a June
10 banquet at the Sam Rayburn
Building on Capitol Hill. Fishback,
a public affairs official at the
University of Virginia since 1966, is
a special adviser to UVa President
John T. Casteen III.

oat
57

Lawrence A. Atler

was recently elected chair of the

Greater Denver Chamber of

Commerce, one of the largest cham-

bers in the West. He also became

affiliated as “of counsel” with the

law firm of Gelt, Fleishman &

Sterling.

Stanley M. Erdreich Jr.

is the senior partner in the
Birmingham investment firm of
Coleman and Erdreich. He recently
attended the Leadership Program
on Japan in Tokyo. The program
invited business leaders, journalists,
and scholars from around the world
to exchange views with Japanese
opinion leaders on economic rela-
tions between Japan and the rest of
the world.

Karl M. Funkhouser

of Arlington, Va., is a member of
both the Sons of Confederate
Veterans and the military Order of
the Stars and Bars. He has received
the Meritorious Service medal by
the SCV and is commander of
Jefferson Davis Camp No. 305 in
Washington, D.C.

Morton P. Iler

is general manager of a multi-loca-
tion healthcare management compa-
ny, based in Beverly Hills, which
serves physicians in the greater Los

 
 

Angeles area. He also performs man-
agement and financial consulting
services for two securities brokerage
firms and a publishing company. He
and his wife, Jeanne, live in San
Pedro, Calif.

John D. Marsh

was named Rotarian of the Year by
the Rotary Club of Leesburg, Va.,
and was elected to the Purcellville
(Va.) town council for a four-year
term. Marsh is a stockbroker and
manages a family farm.

Robert 1. Peeples
See Michael J. Cregan °85
(Marriages).

Peter C. Pope,

after retiring from the U.S. Air Force
in 1988, after 26 years of service, has
not started a second career. He lives
in Waynesboro, Pa.

William J. Russell Jr.

merged his investment advisory firm
with Mark Perkins to form Perkins
Capital Advisors of Palm Beach,
Fla., which manages individual
accounts, a hedge fund, and a mutu-
al fund. Russell and his wife,
Flossie, live in Tequesta, Fla.

> ~~
58

Philip N. Brown,

having weathered hurricane Hugo

and rebuilt Northside Valley Villas,

looks forward with his wife to reduc-

ing their private deficit. They live

on St. Croix in the Virgin Islands.

John H. Candler Jr.

has opened an office in Atlanta to
assist small capitalization for private
companies going public.

John 8. Coleman

is general manager of DHI Airways
Inc. which is based on St. Thomas
in the Virgin Islands. He welcomes
any visiting alumni to look him up.

Page D. Cranford

is the partner in charge of the
Norfolk (Va.) office of the law firm
McGuire, Woods, Battle & Boothe
and also serves as the co-chair of the
Financial Institutions Practice
Section, specializing in banking law.

Thomas F. King Jr.

was recently appointed senior pro-
ject manager with the Jacksonville
(Fla.) Downtown Development
Authority.

W. Philip Laughlin

is a planning and controls manage
for an Esso refinery expansion pro-
ject in Sriracha, Thailand.

James E. Lipscomb Ill

is a life and qualifying member for
the 1992 Million Dollar Roundtable.
He lives in Greenville, S.C.

 

Sanderson

has retired from the Safeco ¢ lorp.
bd moved to Walhalla, S.C., to

. with his wife of 29 years.

Michael A.

enjoy life
John R.C. Stephens Jr.

lives in Spokane, Wash., with his
vife, Pamela, and son, Colin, 2.
Vy ,

Dr. Philip W. Turner Ill

is dean of the Berkeley Divinity
School at Yale and associate dean of
the Yale Divinity School in New
Haven, Conn.

Richard F. Gum mins ?
spent last “ inter duck hunting in
[Ilinois, Tennessee, Mississippi, and
Arkansas, and also worked on the
Clinton campaign. Son Richard is a
rising junior at W&L. He lives in
Nashville.

Jere H. Williams

of Barnegat, N.J., was named fund-
raising executive of the year by the
Greater Philadelphia chapter of the
National Society of Fund Raising
Executives last November.

SIL.

John D. Marsh
See °57.

‘61

John B. Boatner

has published two new composi-
tions: “Nunc Dimittis,” a choral
work for mixed voices and percus-
sion and “Cinderella,” a composi-
tion-improvisation for young
dancers and musicians. Boatner has
written works for orchestra, chorus,
and theater. He lives in Memphis,
Tenn.

Richard W. Hoover

will depart Vienna in July to assume
new duties as U.S. Permanent
Representative to the United
Nations Environment Program. He
will live in Nairobi, Kenya.

6?

Dr. Robert P. Carroll Jr.

stl has a family practice and is
active in medical politics. He is
Presently on the AMA Hospital
Medical Staff Section Governing
Council and is anxious about health-
fare reform. He lives in
‘Nacogdoches, Texas.

Robert P.

Lancaster
IS a Se

nior vice president and man-
ager of institutional equity sales
with Lehman Brothers’ south cen-
tral region. He lives in Dallas.

K. Douglas Martin

is vice chairman and chief operating
officer of Primerica Financial
Services, a multi-billion dollar com-
pany that markets term life prod-
ucts, mutual funds, and debt consol-
idation loans. He lives in Atlanta.

Clark D. Valentiner

sells John Deere farm, lawn, and
garden equipment and lives in
Elizabethtown, N.C.

‘63

William H. Candler

is editor of two regional publications
for the Hampton Roads area:
Portfolio magazine and Senior Times.
Portfolio recently received four
awards from the Virginia Press
Association for writing and graphics.

John P. Cover
is a personnel manager with Procter
& Gamble in Cincinnati.

Dr. Timothy A. Kurten

has a urology practice and lives with
his wife, Barbara, in Sheboygan
Falls, Wis. He enjoys fishing for tar-
pou and hunting grouse.

William B. MacKenney II]
lives with his wife and son in
Redmond, Wash., where he teaches
high school math and science and
Sunday School. MacKenney loves
the Northwest, rides his bike to and
from work, and welcomes any visit-
ing classmates.

Clarence Renshaw Il
is a Corporate Communications con-
sultant and lives in Fairfax, Va.

Willard R. Young Ill

lives with his wife, Cynthia, in
Lebanon, N.J., and has two chil-
dren, Kristen, 22, and James, 17.

‘64

Donald B. McFall
is president of McFall & Sartwelle,
a 40-attorney firm in Houston.

Floyd W. McKinnon

lives in Scarsdale, N.Y., and has
three children—two in college, and
one recently graduated.

John Y. Pearson Jr.

has become a fellow of the
American College of Trial Lawyers.
He is a partner in the Norfolk, Va.,
law firm of Wilcox & Savage.

65

David H. Adams

has been appointed the new U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge for the Eastern
District of Virginia, Norfolk
Division. He lives in Virginia Beach.
Douglas V. Davis

is a senior attorney advisor in the
Common Carrier Bureau, Inter-

ia Ri ae la oi aaa ae a 3

(n the Shoulders

Ota PR Giant

\ few months ago, my colleague Bill Paxton and I enjoyed din:

\ vith Skippy and George Goodwin °39. What a team! Bill
ind | sp ( inder of the evening talking about them—thei
enjoyment of each other, their ze ing, and how they are
imbued with the best the University ofte

Karly in his career, as a reporter 1 lhe Atlanta Journal, George
unearthed a st S ie Georgia gubs torial race

and was av

Pulitzer Prize for Dis
tinguished Local R
porting in 1948—or

nine years after gradu
ating from Washington
and Lee. (Interest
ingly, he sent a portion
of his $500 prize to

W&L as a gift!)

from that point,
(C,eorge went on to
build a career on the

other side of the fence.
and it’s
tion
dean of public relations

in Atlanta. In the 1960s

(;oodwin was chairman

,

LTO TT

(;
\

Ss as

of the advertising and publi
Atlanta,” a program designed to
the city, that created more than
1985 after 21 years as managir
Manning, Selvage & Lee and
selor to MS&L., the world’s 10t!
Whatever George did 11
ing as critic and counselor,
ference in their community. ‘T]
Arts Alliance, the Lovett and
Presbyterian Church, in addition
Clark Goodwin ’69). Needless t
center of much creative | phila
George has been a stalwart
Whenever W&L asked for help.
class agent, alumni p
a participant in the Alumni ¢
vice chairman of
of George's SUTI I I Stal
made an income-retained gift thr
fund, our “mutual fund” for those \

forward-thinkiu

iff) it ¢
opportunities for students and fa €
to expand their intellectual and experie
‘Through a life of Mmmitment al
ening the institution that shaped his
(;00dwin iS a tru ’ ‘MDO!I ; f
niversit
(;eorge Goodwin, DI]
David R. Long

.

260. OOF

ive made a tremendous dif
ns helped found the Atlanta
St Schools, and Trinity
sons (one of them its
I ‘ iS Cen the
\)niversity as well

Vi iar d iS
ember, as

1d S Cently as

gn committee. In celebratior
i W&i mnus, the Goodwins
e University’s pr ed-incom«<

fry

L. |

LUT

r, Skippy was I

IOCa4ILYV. (;eor:!

 

Goodwin: Always at the ready for WEL.

mmiuttee of

7 |
onomic development

: ‘
’ rne \t Bani
.  @bESe Lidil

relations fu
ight there, sery

n \\ a ’ future by el

Director of Planned and Capital Giving

\ < & &
S To s 1\ ' : S( 5
.
5 ! ST ¢ oTn
:
CciCS,. (,; { ¢
S W
.
iS

“Forward,

e retired in

it .
id OTTICC Ul

Photo: James Conway

national Policy Division of the
Federal Communication Commis-
sion. He recently attended the
International Telecommunication
Union conference in Geneva and
the ITU World Telecommunication
Standardization conference in
Helsinki as a primary U.S. spokes-
man for the State Department. He
lives in Vienna, Va.

Charles R. Grant

is in his 23rd year with the Charles
R. Grant Insurance Agency in
Rockville, Md. He has two children,
Ashley, 14, and Ryan, 10.

Dr. K. Edward Jansen

has been promoted to full professor
of English at Western New England
College in Springfield, Mass.

S. Reed Paynter

recently returned from Japan after
eight years with DuPont. He is now
an automotive business manager-
fiber systems in Wilmington, Del.

Dr. Charles A. Sweet

has just published Private Eyes, an
investigation into the lives of real-
life P.L.s that is part of Writer's Digest
Howdunit series.

Norman Yoerg

is an associate corporate counsel for
the Masco Corp., specializing in
antitrust and trade regulation law.
He was also recently appointed a
member of the governing body of
the ABA antitrust section. Yoerg’s
daughter, Virginia, will enter W&L
in the fall. They live in Bloomfield
Village, Mich.

’

66
Scott A. Darrah
was recently elected president of
Scot Power Tool Corp. He also
serves as president and CEO of Scot
Tools Inc., a supplier of patented

hand tools to the K mart Corp.
Darrah lives in Raleigh, N.C.

Allen P. Dodd Ill

is a partner in the Louisville, Ky.,
law firm of Dodd & Dodd. He and
his wife, Ulla, have two children
including Allen, who is a rising
sophomore at W&L.

Maurice R. Fliess

of Reston, Va., was promoted to
associate director of The Newseum,
which will be an interactive, interna-
tional museum of news, news
media, and the First Amendment.

Phillip D. Mollere

has taken a new position as commer-
cial director of Crescent Technology
Inc., a new environmental and tech-
nical services company in New .
Orleans. Mollere still travels fre-
quently to Russia and the Ukraine.

Hardwick Stuart Jr.
is the managing shareholder for the
law firm of Adams, Quackenbush,

44

Herring & Stuart, which has 22
lawyers and offices in Georgetown
and Columbia, S.C.

66L

William H. Candler
See ’63.

’
67
The Rev. James H. Cooper
received his Doctor of Ministry
degree in May. The title of his pro-
ject thesis was “Effects of a Self-
directed Individual Household
Retreat on the Practices of Christian
Piety, Study and Action at Home.”
Cooper is rector of Christ Episcopal
Church in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.

John K. Hopkins,

owner of the Admiral Cleaners
Chain and president of Admiral Inc.,
is the Anne Arundel Trade
Council’s choice as 1993 business
leader of the year. He lives in
Severna Park, Md.

Rev. S. Bryant Kendrick Jr.
has been appointed associate direc-
tor of the primary care development
program at the Bowman Gray
School of Medicine at Wake Forest
University. Kendrick also presented
a paper titled “The Transition
Interview” at the first meeting of
the American Academy on the
Physician and Patient.

67L

Joseph D. Logan Ill

has added another partner to his law
firm in Roanoke. The firm is now
called Plunkett, Logan &
Ochlschlaeger.

68L

David H. Adams
See 65.

Joseph W. Brown

practices law in Las Vegas, Nev.,
where he he lives with his wife,
Pam, and four sons.

Michael L. Lowry
is an attorney with the Atlanta law
firm of Ford & Harrison.

George A. Ragland

heads the trusts and estates practice
group of the Winston-Salem (N.C.)
law firm of Womble, Carlyle,
Sandridge & Rice. He and his wife,
Susan, have two children, Meagan,
24, and George Jr., 22.

Hardwick Stuart Jr.
See 66.

’
69
Richard E. Kramer
teaches writing at Felician College

in Lodi, N.J. He has published arti-
cles in The Drama Review, Studies in

American Drama, 1945-present, and
The Village Voice. He has also con-
tributed to the Cambridge Guide to
American Theatre, which will be pub-
lished later this year. Kramer’s name
will be listed in Who’s Who in
Entertainment, Who’s Who in American
Education, and Who’s Who Among
Emerging Leaders of America.

Gary D. Silverfield

is an executive vice president and
chief operating officer of the Seda
Construction Co., a residential
builder in Jacksonville, Fla.

O9L

William P. Boardman
See '63.

Joseph L. Churchill

has been appointed to the board of
advisors of Otto Wolff sche
Verwaltungs-GmbH, a holding com-
pany that owns and operates a num-
ber of major German business inter-
ests. He lives in Atlanta.

Donald B. McFall
See '64.

’

70
Dr. Hugh B. Foshee
recently joined a group in the pri-
vate practice of internal medicine.
He and his wife, Kathy, live in
Louisville, Ky., with their young
son, Michael.

Martin F. Schmidt Jr.

is author of the recently published
Maryland’s Geology, which explains
the landforms and geologic history
of Maryland. Schmidt reports that
readers do not need any geologic
background for the book. He lives
in Finksburg, Md.

Bill Wiglesworth

teaches English, history, interna-
tional studies, outdoor education,
and math at Drouin Secondary
College. He and his wife, Debbie,
have three children, Daniel, Sophie,
and Claire, and live in Victoria,
Australia.

70OL

Robert A. Vinyard

of Abington, Va., was appointed to
the regional board of Central
Fidelity Bank. He also served as
chairman of the Highlands Juvenile
Detention Center and as lieutenant
governor of the eighth division,
Capital District of Kiwanis
International.

;
/1

Roy D. Carlton

has left McDonnell Douglas Corp.

to become a partner in the Los

Angeles office of the law firm
Howrey & Simon. Roy continues to

 
  

practice in the area of government
contracts. He lives in Manhattan
Beach, Calif., with his wife,
Catherine, and two children, David,
7, and Isabella, 2.

 

 

 

 

G. Lee Millar III °7]

was recently appointed to the MIS
staff at Memphis State University,
He has bit parts in two forthcoming
movies: Killer Angels, with Martin
Sheen and The Firm, with Tom
Cruise. Millar reports that his adult
soccer team won its seventh consec-
utive state championship.

J. Wade Taylor

has just completed his first year of
law school at South Texas College
of Law in Houston.

’
72

Bruce W. Cusson

is a senior trust operations officer at

the Union Trust Co. in Shelton,

Conn. He manages the trust depart-

ment’s security settlement area and

is also the administrator of institu-

tional custody accounts.

 

 

Cmdr. Andrew L. Phaup, Jr.
retired from the Navy last
November. He lives in Richmond.

Thomas A. Rogers

has been promoted to resident vice
president for the St. Paul Seaboard.
His family will relocate to Dallas.

Newton H. Thompson Ill

was recently appointed treasurer of
The New England, a Boston-based
life insurance and investment com-
pany. He lives in Medfield, Mass.

’

13
William P. Ballard Jr.
works for Kidder Peabody in

Norfolk, Va., where he lives with his
wife, Randi, and three children.

L. Price Blackford

is managing director at Donaldson,
Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp.
in New York, where he lives with
his wife, Nancy, and two sons.

Richard P. Bonnifield

is general counsel of the Long
Island Power Authority and lives in
Roslyn, N.Y.

E.. Marshall Braden

is a partner in the Washington, D.C.,
law firm of Baker & Hostetler, and
represents political candidates and
organizations. He and his wife,
McKayla, have two children,
Amanda, 8, and Marshall, 6.

Gates G. Brelsford
recently started his own business in
financial and investor relations and
corporate communications. He and
wife Driedra live in Houston.

Robert T. Bruyere
is a practicing architect in Dallas,

-

 

e he lives with his wife, Anne,

er oom.
» hrers, Elizabeth, 5, and

and two daug
Catherine, 3.
, "ris
rey ©. Burr . |
es his semi-retirement from his
a practice by painting and attend-
ing seminary full-time. He lives in

[ndianapolis.

Stanley 1. C ase
is an attorney !n the Spartanburg

(S.C.) law firm of Butler, Means,
Evins & Browne. He and his wife,
Martha, have three children, Steve,

Sally, and Betsy.

Herbert W. Christ III

is headmaster of Hathaway Brown
School, a private girls school in
Shaker Heights, Ohio. He and his
wife, Diane, have two sons,
Matthew, 10, and Benjamin, 3.

Alan D. Corwith

is a franchise development manager
with Burger King Corp. in Miami.
He and his wife, Pat, have three
children, Ashley, 12, Amanda, 10,
and Patrick, 5.

Kevin P. Darby

is an owner/mechanical contractor in
Centerport, N.Y., where he lives
with his wife, Camille, and daugh-
ters Jessica and Kimberly.

Dr. John C. Dovel

is a licensed psychologist in New
Jersey and North Carolina. He lives
in Red Bank, N.J., with his wife,
Barbara, and two children, Tyler, 7,
and Erin, 3.

Donald D. Eavenson Jr.

has joined Schering-Plough
Healthcare Products as vice presi-
dent of marketing, where he will
direct the marketing for Schering’s
suncare, female health, and OTC
drug business. He plans to relocate
to New Jersey with his wife, Susan,
and two children, Ryan and
Courtney.

William P. Englehart Jr.

and wife Pat have two sons and live
in Cockeysville, Md. He has prac-
ticed law in Towson for 15 years.

Robert N. Farrar
recently left the law firm of Brinson,
Askew & Berry to start his own solo
Practice in Rome, Ga.

James A. Fernald 111

iS Vice president and general sales
Manager of the Charlottesville (Va.)
NBC affiliate, WVIR-TV. He and
wife Betsy have a son, Jamie, 12.

G. Archer Frierson II

's an elder in the First Presbyterian
Church in Shreveport, La., where he
lives with his five children, Archer,
4, Bratton, 12, Marion, 10,
Elizabeth, 6, and Allen, 4.

James A. Henriksen
r i i
“cently completed filming his

a

100th television commercial. He
and his wife, Julie, live in Altadena,
Calif.

W. Patrick Hinely

recently returned from Atlanta,
where he gathered source materials
for the liner notes to the new album
Mirrors of Embarrassment by Col.
Bruce Hampton & the Aquarium
Rescue Unit. During the three days
in the studio with the musicians, he
also made his recording debut as a
harmony vocalist. Hinely is the uni-
versity photographer for Washington
and Lee.

John R. Kessling

is vice president-director of strategic
services at Ketchum Public
Relations in New York.

Aven L. Sharp

is the manager of Williams Detroit
Diesel-Allison’s Coastal Facilities in
Savannah, Ga., and Charleston, S.C.
He and wife Pat live in Savannah.

’
/4

Dr. James H. Beaty Jr.

is an orthopedic surgeon with the

Campbell Clinic and was named an

at-large member of the board of

directors of the American Academy

of Orthopedic Surgeons. He lives in

Memphis.

William K. Brooks

recently purchased Paulson & Co.,
an Oriental rug and carpet retailer in
Swarthmore, Pa.

Sterling H. Chadwick

works for AT&T Capital Corp. as
president of automotive services.
Chadwick was inducted into the
Lacrosse Hall of Fame last February
and lives in Randolph, N.J., with his
wife, Diane, and two children,
Jennifer, 13, and Matt, 11.

‘74L

Roy D. Carlton
See ’71.

Ray C. Steele Jr.

is an assistant vice president of
material management for the
Norfolk Southern Corp. He lives in
Roanoke.

’
bak

Dr. John T. Dahlburg

won the George Polk Award for

Environmental Reporting for his in-

depth reporting on the unchecked

disposal of radioactive material in

the former Soviet Union. He lives in

Helsinki.

Robert C. Floyd

works for Unisys in Atlanta and lives
in Tucker, Ga., with wife Betsy and
their children, Michael, 6, and
Leslie, 3.

oe

Douglas V. Davis
See °65.

’
/6

Dr. Ben R. Barton

is in private practice in Nashville,

specializing in cardiac and thoracic

surgery.

Dr. Carey D. Chisholm

is now in his third year as the direc-
tor of the Emergency Medicine
Residency Program at Methodist
Hospital of Indiana. He recently co-
edited a text on Soft Tissue
Emergencies and serves on the board
of directors of the Indiana chapter of
the American College of Physicians
and Council of Emergency
Medicine Residency Directors. He
and his wife, Robin, plan a return
trip to the Galapagos Islands. They
have two children, Kelsey, 4, and
Tyler, 2, and live in Zionsville, Ind.

TOL

E. Marshall Braden
See °73.

’
77

Gary W. Adams

has been named assistant to the

president pro tempore of the

California state Senate. His charge is

to develop a long-term financing

plan for California public higher

education. He lives in Sacramento.

John R. Buckthal

lives in Amarillo, ‘Texas, with his
wife, Jennifer, and three daughters,
Elizabeth, Catherine, and Madeline.

David C. Davis

has changed jobs for the first time in
10 years and joined the Belleville,
Ill., law firm of Bonaldi & Clinton
Ltd., where he specializes in work-
ers’ compensation claims.

Stephen F. Mangum

recently accepted a position as cor-
porate vice president of
Bloomingdale’s in New York and
has relocated with his wife, Donna,
and three children, Lauren, 11, and
twins, Nicholas and ‘Taylor, 8, to
New Canaan, Conn. Last summer,
Mangum coached his boys’ little
league team to the league champi-
onships in Loudon County, Va.

Dr. Richard F. Rathbone

and his wife, Michele, have six chil-
dren: Rebecca, Sara, Mary,
Elizabeth, Anna, and their newest
arrival, Rich. The family lives in
Clinton, La.

Roger P. Rydell
works at the Dell Computer Corp.
in Austin, Texas, where he lives

with his wife and one-year-old
twins, Kate and Peter.

Greg S. Walden

received a recess appointment from
President Bush to serve as a
Commissioner of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. He lives in
Alexandria, Va.

Dr. Thomas P. Wright

is a surgeon at Fairfax (Va.)
Hospital. He is married and has
three children, ‘Thomas, Brittany,
and Margaret.

TG

Ted D. Grosser

is a partner in the Cincinnati law
firm of Vorys, Sater, Seymour &
Pease.

’
18

Peter J. Abitante

has been named to the newly creat-

ed position of director of interna-

tional public relations for the

National Football League in New

York.

A. Greer Barriault

is a senior geologist with the off-
shore team of Columbia Gas
Development. He and his wife,
Clarruth, have a daughter, Merruth,
1, and live in Houston.

Travis E. Bass

is a territory sales manager in the
industrial wood products division of
Georgia-Pacific. He and wife Laurie
live in Burlington, N.C., with their
two children, Ed, 13, and Liz, 11.

William D. Brown

lives in St. Paul, Minn., with his
wife, Pat, daughter, Oshi, and two
large dogs, Manta and Brugge.

George F. Griffin IV

of Rockville, Md., is executive
director of the Greater Bethesda-
Chevy Chase Chamber of
Commerce.

Douglas E. Johnston Jr.
manages two offices for Western
Bank in Century City, Calif. He
recently traveled to Moscow to
teach a seminar on U.S. banking and
management techniques and plans
to return in the future. He lives in
Manhattan Beach.

Howard A. Rubel

has recently joined Goldman, Sachs
& Co., as a vice president. He lives
in Westport, Conn.

James G. Sheridan Jr.

was recently promoted to manager,
S9G nuclear engineering, for KAPL
Inc., a subsidiary of Martin Marietta.
He and his wife, Jennifer, have a
daughter, Allie Virginia, 9, and live
in Schenectady, N.Y.

James J. Sindler

is president of Jay J. Sindler &
Associates, which provides insur-
ance and employee benefits to pro-
fessionals and closely held compa-
nies. He lives in Baltimore.

Charles H. Sipple IV

is a vice president of Interstate/
Johnson Lane in Savannah, Ga. He
and his wife, Mary, are building a
new house and have two children,
Sarah, 10, and Chip, 6.

John S. Strong

is a business professor at the College
of William and Mary and recently
received the Thomas Jefferson
‘Teaching Award, given to the
W&M teacher who has demonstrat-
ed “through character and influ-
ence, the same high regard for edu-
cation exemplified by Thomas
Jefferson.”

Henry C. Taylor

has been named to Dillard Paper
Co.’s 1992 President’s Council,
which represents the top 35 sales
representatives in the company who
have reached their annual MBO
goals. He lives in Atlanta.

David A. Tumen

is a partner in the Columbus (Ohio)
law firm of Porter, Wright, Morris &
Arthur, where he concentrates in tax
law. He lives with his wife, Patty
and son, Jimmy, 6.

Robert J. Williams

is a senior engineer with Intelsat, a
Washington, D.C.-based interna-
tional communications organization.
He lives with his wife, Linda, and
two daughters, Genevieve, 4, and
Mary, 2, in Damascus, Md.

78L

Jeff D. Harris

is a partner in the Chicago law firm
of Foran & Schultz. His practice is
concentrated on construction related
matters and civil litigation.

79

Robert A.O. Calvert

was recently a guest lecturer and
critic at both Catholic University
and the Southern College of
Technology School of Architecture.
He lives in Concord, N.C.

James. H. Flippen Ill

is a shareholder in the Norfolk (Va.)
law firm of Cooper, Spong, & Davis.
Flippen and his wife, Barbara, have

two children, Katie, 6, and Jay, 4.

The Rev. H. Graham Hudgins
recently became assistant to the
headmaster for guidance and coun-
seling at Norfolk Academy in
Norfolk, Va. He is also pursuing a
M.S. Ed. in guidance and counsel-
ing at Old Dominion University. He
and his wife, Beth, have three

daughters: Charlotte, 11, Suzy, 10,
and Virginia, 7.

William R. Mauck Jr.

is a shareholder in the Richmond
law firm of Williams, Mullen,
Christian & Dobbins, where he spe-
cializes in construction and environ-
mental litigation.

John P. Stafford

of Pittsburgh was appointed to the
Southwestern Pennsylvania
Regional Planning Advisory Panel.

John C. Tompkins

was recently appointed vice presi-
dent of Alex Brown & Sons in
Cockeysville, Md.

’
SO

Maj. Edward L. Bowie Jr.

is serving with the U.S. forces in

Saudi Arabia and hopes to return

home this fall. His wife, Denise, and

two children live in Chevy Chase,

Md.

David L. Church

is a vice president in the real estate
division of PNC Bank in
Philadelphia. He and his wife,
Laura, live in Devon, Pa.

Thomas E. Dutton

is a partner in the Columbus (Ohio)
law firm of Jones, Day, Reavis &
Pogue, where he practices health-
care law. He and his wife, Susan,
have three children, including Sarah
Luce, who was born on March 4,
1992.

Thomas E. Goss Jr.

is a first vice president in the invest-
ment banking division of Paine
Webber International. He and his
wife, Mary, have lived in London
for the past three years.

Scott D. Graham

and his wife, Elizabeth, work
together in the Graham Insurance
Agency of Baltimore. ‘They have a
son, Duncan, 2.

Hugh Montgomery

has started a new company,
Mills/Montgomery Strategic Design.
He and his wife, Patricia, have a
new baby and live in Fairfield,
Conn.

Gilbert H. Pearsall Jr.

is currently attending the U.S. Army
Command and General Staff
College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan.
He lives with his wife, Kathleen,
and three children, Jennifer, 10,
Gilbert, 8, and Robert, 6.

Davidson A. Perry-Miller
recently bought a house on
Nantucket Island and welcomes
calls from any classmates who are in
the area.

‘1

Peter H. Benda

works for the consulting firm A. 'T.
Kearney out of Chicago. He is cur-
rently working on an assignment in
Brazil.

Jeffrey W. Hamill

is a national sales manager for
Redbook magazine. He lives in
Darien, Conn., with his wife, Susan,
and daughter, Alexandra, 2.

George R. Irvine Ill

is a partner with the Mobile (Ala.)
law firm of Stone, Granade, Crosby
& Blackburn. He and his wife,
Sallye, live with their dog, Homer,
in Mobile.

Frank S. Jones Jr.

has been named partner in the law
firm of Semmes, Bowen & Semmes,
where he practices in the business
practice group, specializing in secu-
rities law and mergers and acquisi-
tions matters. He lives in Baltimore.

Robert B. Neely

was recently selected to be presi-
dent of the governing board for the
‘Texas School for the Deaf in Dallas.
He was also named vice chairman of
the board of trustees of Presbyterian
Village North, a retirement commu-
nity that is a member of the
Presbyterian Healthcare System.

Michael A. Silverman

is a vice president with H.N.
Silverman & Son Excavators Inc.
He and his wife, Karen, live in
Warwick, N.Y., with their three chil-
dren: twin boys, Dane Michael and
Dereck Christopher, 6, and daugh-
ter Mia Danielle.

‘82

James D. Brockelman

is vice president for pension market-
ing with Putnam Mutual Funds in
Boston. He and his wife, Cathy,
travel frequently.

Stephen P. Burrington

was recently promoted to manager
of international banking at American
Airlines, where he is responsible for
all foreign exchange activities world-
wide. He lives in Arlington, ‘Texas.

Scott D. Crawford

was recently promoted to major and
was selected to attend the
Command General Staff College at
Fort Leavenworth, Kan., for one
year beginning July 1, 1994.

Earle 8. Greene Jr.

is preparing for a three-year assign-
ment to the U.S. Consulate General
in Hong Kong. He recently com-
pleted a two-year term at the U.S.
Embassy in Khartoum, Sudan.

Michael H. Jones
is a risk management consultant for

Mobil Oil Corp.’s long term ISS
planning and implementation. He
and his wife, Ruth, have a new
daughter, Danielle Alexandra.

Bryan S. Kocen

is president of Kocen Financia]
Group, a financial planning firm and
is also a principal of Financial Goal
Securities, a private placement bro-
kerage company. He and his wife,
Gail, live in Palm Springs, Calif.

Glen Franklin Koontz
recently accepted the position of
assistant city attorney in Richmond

Major Douglas R. Linton []]
is stationed at Fort Gordon, Ga.,
where he teaches communications.
Linton reports seeing undergradu-
ate classmates Capt. Scott D.
Crawford and James D. Kirby.

Dr. M. Parker Roberts II]

is a colon and rectal surgeon in
Houston. He has joined the practice
of Dr. Ronald R. Butts at the
Houston Northwest Medical
Center.

Robert T. Schmidt

is starting his fifth year with
Korn/Ferry International, a leading
executive search firm. He and his
wife, Elizabeth, live with their two
year old daughter, Caroline
Meriwether, in Alexandria, Va.

George H. West Ill
is a project accountant for Faison
Associates in Savannah, Ga.

H. Lee Woosley Ill
is an investment broker with A.G.
Edwards & Sons Inc. in Nashville.

‘83

Seng-Kah Baey

is group managing director of
American International Industries
Group of Companies in Singapore.

James R. Black

of Baltimore is an architect with the
East Coast office of Anshen &
Allen, a large California-based archi-
tecture firm specializing in health
care and research facilities.

Christopher C. Bouquet

is director of government operations
for ORS Associates Inc. in McLean,
Va. He is also pursuing his law
degree at George Washington Uni-
versity and is active in local polities.
He has two children, Nicole and
Matthew, and lives in Alexandria.

Steven D. Corbeille
is president of Yardstick Interiors n
Washington, D.C.

Bruce E. Damark
is a free-lance English editor in
‘Tokyo.

William F. Devine
is a partner in the Norfolk law firm

  

 

4

 

}

Love U

 

a

itt Culberson °79 and wife Jule have scaled the heights of many of the world’s most challenging mountains.

Ain t No Mountain High knough

People find love in the strangest places. Matt Culberson °79
met his wife-to-be, Julie, 100 feet off the ground—on a ledge
on a rock face near Boulder, Colo. “We pooled our resources
to get over some tight spots, and ended up reaching the top
together,” he recalls—and it wasn’t long after that they decid-
ed to really tie the knot.

At the time, Culberson was a full-time guide and instructor
at the American Alpine Institute in Bellingham, Wash., which
takes clients of all experience levels—from seasoned climbers
eager to polish their skills all the way down to business-execu-
tive types living out their Walter Mitty fantasies—on high-alti-
tude expeditions all over the globe. During his eight years
with AAI, Culberson sharpened his skills on the world’s great-
est peaks, mountains with names like Denali (or Mount
McKinley, the highest point in North America) Annapurna,
llliniza Sur, and Aconcagua (the highest mountain in the
Western Hemisphere, located in the Andes).

“Matt worked on all aspects of our program, from pure rock
to glaciated peaks, and all mixtures in between,” says AAI
director Dunham Gooding. “He is equally adept in the Arctic
latitudes of Denali and on the cliffs above the beach at Cabo
San Lucas in Baja.”

Culberson got bitten by the rock-hopping bug during his
high school days in Morganton, N.C. While at W&L, he took
advantage of the nearby mountains, and many a day would
find him scrambling among the cliffs and boulders along the
Blue Ridge Parkway. “Straight rock climbing has always been
a bit like playing golf to me—the technical aspects of it, at
least,” he says. Then he got a taste of the next progression,
alpine climbing, which encompasses technical climbing at
high altitudes on rock, snow, and ice, all at the same time. “A
Whole new element of excitement was added to the game.”

There’s a downside to this, of course: Roughly one in every
16 People loses his life on an 8,000-meter peak. “Since there

are so many hazards out there that you can’t control,”
Culberson says, “it’s very important to let your judgment and
attitude be such that you reduce the amount of risk as much as
possible.” Culberson’s philosophy is the product of his roots in
the small, tight-knit, but rather laid-back American climbing
community, which espouses safety above all else, mixed-in with
a dose of healthy competitiveness, and is the very antithesis of a
growing win-at-all-costs mentality in the sport.

Matt and Julie saw that firsthand on an expedition to Mount
McKinley, one of the most unforgiving mountains of all with its
remote location, unpredictable weather, and sub-Arctic temper-
atures. What they thought would be a working holiday as volun-
teers for a National Park Service mountaineering patrol instead
turned into the deadliest season ever on the mountain, as a
severe storm created conditions that led eventually to 11
deaths. ‘heir 22-day ordeal, in which they were involved in an
almost unceasing round of rescues (as well as in the grimmer
task of retrieving bodies), was written up in the July 1992 issue
of Outside magazine, and Culberson contributed some stark
excerpts from his journal notes, titled “Chronicle of a Storm,”
to a recent issue of Climbing magazine.

Having been to the mountaintop, Culberson is clearly rooted
these days in the real world, as the head of the middle school at
a private day school in Sandy, Utah. But he remains an active
climber and guide, and Julie continues to guide in addition to
being a ski patroller. ‘The Culbersons are planning a trip to K2
next summer, hoping to add the world’s second-highest moun-
tain to their list of climbs. And funding is almost secured for an
expedition to Patagonia this December, fulfilling one of Matt’s
real dreams. “We plan to do the first North-South traverse of
the Patagonian ice cap,” he says excitedly. “It'll mean five
weeks of hauling sledges across the ice, but we should manage
to get in 10 to 15 first ascents along the way.”

Walter Mitty, eat your heart out.—By Wi/liam Cocke ’82

of Hofheimer, Nusbaum, McPhaul
& Samuels. He and his wife, Alicia
*90L, have a son, William Jr., 1.

Joel A. Dunlap

and his wife, Lori, live in Houston
with their two children, Lucy, 4, and
Hampton, 1. The family will move
to San Antonio in July to begin a
radiology practice.

Capt. Thomas L. Egbert

flies F-18 Hornets in the Navy and
is based at Cecil Field in
Jacksonville, Fla.

Dr. Stephen P. Geary

is finishing his last year of residency
in orthopedic surgery in Houma, La.
He plans to do a fellowship in sports
medicine in Manhattan in 1994. His
wife, Keri Hinrichs Geary °89, is
working in corporate communica-
tions and human resources in New
Orleans.

W. James Jonas Ill

is now executive vice president for
state affairs in the San Antonio
office of the law firm Loeffler &
Leath Inc.

Charles L. King
is a lawyer in Arlington County, Va.

Ensign Thomas F. King IIl

is an emergency preparedness coor-
dinator for the Florida Power and
Light Corp. and works at the
‘Turkey Point Nuclear Plant. He and
his wife, Rosa, have two sons, ‘T’y, 5,
and Alex, 4.

Hansel B. Millican 111

lives with his wife, ‘Terry Lea, and
two children, lan Brady, 2, and
Kathryn, 1, in Irmo, S.C.

Peter H. Moody

lives in San Francisco and works as a
free lance location scout for feature
films and commercials.

Edward J. O’Brien IV

is a Management consultant with
Deloitte & ‘Touche in Louisville,
Ky., where he is assisting a Fortune
200 company redefine the term
“World Class Manufacturing.”

Michael Hastings Reap

is a corporate associate in the law
firm of Kelley, Drye & Warren,
where he specializes in joint ven-
tures, acquisitions, project financing,
and other commercial transactions.
Reap lives with his wife, Anne, and
son, Michael, in Rye Brook, N.Y.

Randall L. Root

received his MBA from Southern
Methodist University and is current-
ly managing the electronic products
division of Fidelity Investments in
Dallas.

Capt. Michael 8. Skardon

is currently studying French at the
Defense Language Institute in
Monterey, Calif., and will attend
Georgetown University this fall.

Andrew M. Taylor

is vice president of ‘Taylor &
Mathis, a full-service commercial
real estate firm in Atlanta. ‘Taylor
and his wife, Gretchen, have two
sons, Andrew Jr., 4, and Jake, 2.

H. Bowen Woodruff

practices environmental litigation
with the Charleston (S.C.) law firm
of Young, Clement, Rivers &
Tisdale.

Darryl K. Woodson

is news editor of the Lexington
(Va.) News-Gazette. He lives in
Fairfield with his wife, Mary, and
two children.

Richard W. Young

has joined a general urology practice
in Myrtle Beach, S.C. He and his
wife, Cheryl, have a son, ‘Tate, 2.

Anthony J. Zaccagnini

is a litigation associate in the
Washington (D.C.) law firm of Mell-
Brownell. He and his wife, Corinne,
have a son, ‘Tyler.

OSL

Gaines H. Cleveland

is an assistant U.S. attorney in the
major crimes unit of the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the Southern
District of New York. He lives in
Brooklyn.

Leslie Goller Dillingham
of Jacksonville, Fla., has joined the

law firm of Kent, Ridge & Crawford.

She recently received ‘Tampbrand’s
1993 Women of Environmental
Action Award for the State of
Florida as well as the northeast
Florida chapter of the Sierra Club’s
Environmental Community Service
Award.

Eugene §. Forrester Jr.

is chair of the Young Lawyers
HIV/AIDS ProBono Panel and
serves on the Memphis Bar
Association Drug ‘Task Force.

H. Morgan Griffith

formally declared his intention to
seek the GOP nomination for the
Virginia House of Delegates seat
that covers much of southwest
Roanoke County and eastern
Montgomery County. Griffith is a
lawyer in Salem, Va.

Thomas G. Gruenert

is a Shareholder in the Houston law
firm of Ware, Snow & Fogel. He
and wife Nancy live in Manvel,
‘Texas, with their two sons, Charlie
and Chris.

Andrew S. Lasine

lives in High Point, N.C., with his
wife, Sue, and two children, Sarah,
4, and Kate, 2.

Daniel H. Mason
is a staff attorney with Northeast
Kentucky Legal Services. He and

his wife, Teresa, live in Morehead,
Ky., with their son, Wesley, 5.

W. Price Morrison Jr.

lives in Memphis with his wife,
Gray, and three daughters,
McCaughan, 7, Dial, 5, and Gray, 2.

Sandra 8. Thurston

of Washington, D.C., has competed
in five triathlons, including one in
Italy, where she was the first woman
to finish.

’
S4

William T. Clarke Jr.

lives in Richmond with his wife,

Eve, and two children and makes
his living in the bond business.

Robert M. Dees

is a partner in the Jacksonville (Fla.)
law firm of Gabel, ‘Taylor & Dees,
where he concentrates in admiralty
and media law.

Gregory L. Flentye

is an ordained deacon in the
Episcopal Church and recently
received his medical degree. He is
serving as Clinical instructor in the
University of Illinois College of
Medicine while completing his doc-
torate.

George R. Grainger Jr.

has joined Shearson Lehman
Brothers in Houston as a second
vice president/financial consultant.

Todd A. Howe

is still pursuing his PhD. in sociolo-
gy at Temple University, while
maintaining his faculty position at
Lincoln University in Pennsylvania.
Currently, Howe is on leave at the
Fletcher School of Law and
Diplomacy at Tufts University as a
research associate studying attitudes
and knowledge towards HIV and
AIDS.

David C. Judge

is a vice president in corporate
banking at the Bank of New York.
He recently received an executive
MBA in finance from New York
University.

Patrick T. McGuire
is a national sales manager with the
Cobb Galleria Centre in Atlanta.

Christopher M. Murphy

is an assistant buyer with The Good
Guys, a San Francisco-based con-
sumer electronics retail chain.

Scott S. Prysi
is an emergency room physician and
lives in Modesto, Calif.

Richard R. Rosser

is a producer and assistant director
of commercials, music videos, and
feature films with Synapse
Productions. He lives with his wife,
Stacey, and son, Nicholas, 2, in
Summit, N.J.

David C. Short

is employed by RBC Inc., a Virginia
corporation and subsidiary of the
J.E. Robert Cos. He is the director
of sales for Four Seasons Resorts
and lives with wife Betsy in Lake
Ozark, Mo.

William D. Woolfolk

is coordinator of recruiting publica.
tions for the University of Virginia
School of Medicine.

‘S4L

Thomas B. Shepherd II]

of Ridgeland, Miss., is a commis-
sioner to the National Conference of
Commissioners on Uniform State
Laws. He also published a book,
Mississippi Corporations: Formation
and Operation—With Forms.

;
85

Edward M.F. Bowden

reports that Martha, Ned, Hobbes,

and he are doing well in Lexington,
Ky.

James T. Cobb Jr.

is director of new business and
acquisitions for Lincoln Property
Co. in Denver.

Charles R. DePoy

is a manager in Price Waterhouse’s
Sacramento consulting practice,
where for the last 18 months he has
been working with the State of
Nevada to reform the processing of
their worker’s compensation claims.
He and his wife, Diane, have a
daughter, Jillian Pearl.

David R. Donahue,

after six years with Fox TV affili-
ates, is completing a master’s in
telecommunications at Southern
Illinois University at Carbondale.
Wife Betsy (Sweet Briar °82) is
expecting their third child in
August, joining daughters Leigh and
Laura. Donahue writes: “Anyone
got a job opening?”

Timothy J. Mulreany

is a senior litigation associate at
Carr, Goodson & Lee. He and his
wife of one year, Karen, live on a
horse farm in Clarksville, Md.

Gordon S. Ogden
is a senior associate at the Edward S.
Gordon Co. in New York.

Samuel Maddox Riley
practices in the Baltimore law firm
of Wilson, Elser, Moskowitz,
Edelman & Dicker.

OSL

Terrance J. Dunn

has formed the law firm of Freeman
& Dunn in Lynchburg, Va. The
firm will concentrate in the areas of
taxation and IRS representation.

 

_—

william K.
Sec 79.

Mauck Jr.

Patricia M. Rice ig
is a corporate finance lawyer or
panhandle Eastern Corp. She and
her husband, Richard, live with
their (wo children, Shannon, 3, and
Colin, 1, in Houston.

;

86
Troy E. Andrade
has become associated with the
Jacksonville (Fla.) law firm of Sharp
& Gay.

John-Paul Bouffard

will be moving Co San Antonio,
Texas, where he will begin a resi-
dency in pathology.

Samuel R. Dawson

is a captain stationed at Fort

Rucker, Ala., as a UH-60 Blackhawk
instructor pilot and platoon leader.
He and his wife, Laura, live in
Daleville, Ala.

Bourke C. Harvey
is acommercial real estate broker in
Fort Worth, ‘Texas.

Lee M. Hollis

is an attorney in the Birmingham
law firm of Lightfoot, Franklin,
White & Lucas.

William H. King Ill

works for the Birmingham law firm
of Lightfoot, Franklin, White &
Lucas.

John B. Lewis

is a financial! consultant in the
regional institutional sales group of
Lehman Brothers in Richmond.

Edwin J. Villameter

is a resident in anesthesiology at the
University of Maryland Hospital in
Baltimore.

James A. White Jr.

ejected safely from a Texas Air
National Guard F-16 before the jet
crashed during a practice bombing
mission. Although his parachute
became entangled, he was able to
untangle the risers and execute a
perfect parachute landing fall, or
PLF, approximately 70 miles south
of San Antonio.

861,

Lee Mason Baker

Sa lawyer in the Hong Kong office
of Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue,
where he specializes in international
“Orporate transactions.

Michae/ Hastings Reap
See °83.

D a

Onald F.. Williams Jr.
Ww “Ce

‘4S Tecently elected to the
“nnecticut state Senate. He lives

In hompson, Conn.

’
S/

George A. Berger Il

received his master’s in community

planning from Auburn University

and is now the executive director of

Dothan’s Downtown Group, a pub-

lic-private downtown revitalization

organization in Dothan, Ala.

Andrew R. Caruthers
works with the William Morris
Agency in Los Angeles.

Mark 8S. Herman

owns M.S. Herman & Co. in
Redding, Conn., which specializes
in restoration, conservation and
reproduction of period buildings
and early cars.

Christopher J. Lederer
received his MBA from the
Columbia Business School and will
join the New York management
consulting firm of Booz, Allen &
Hamilton.

Alan G. Scarisbrick

is an associate in municipal finance
with Smith, Barney, Harris, Upham
& Co. in Dallas.

James G. Tucker

received his MBA from the
University of Minnesota and has
moved to Richmond with his wife,
‘Twig, where he will begin an opera-
tions training program with Philip
Morris.

Lee R. Whelchel

has earned her master’s in econom-
ics from the New School for Social
Research and works for the U.S.
Department of Education in

Brooklyn, N.Y.

Dr. Mark H. Whiteford

is currently in his second year of a
general surgery residency at
‘Thomas Jefferson University
Hospital in Philadelphia.

S87L

Glen Franklin Koontz
See °82.

Rodney Lee Moore

is an attorney with the law firm of
Johnson & Gibbs. He lives with his
wife, Kimberly, and son Rodney, 1,
in Dallas.

Scott Harper Tucker

was recently made a partner in the
Little Rock, Ark., law firm of
Friday, Eldredge & Clark, the
state’s largest law firm.

‘3S

Steven M. Alby

recently completed his bachelor’s of
architecture at Auburn University.
He now works for Birchfield, Penual
& Associates, which specializes in
healthcare design in Birmingham.

Hobart P. Bauhan

of Alexandria, Va., is director of gov-
ernment affairs for the National
Burglar & Fire Alarm trade associa-
tion.

Christopher H. Beckert |

is currently attending infantry offi-
cers’ advanced course at Fort
Benning. He and his wife, Kerri,
live in Columbus, Ga., with their
daughter, Kate.

Gregory T. Casker

is an attorney in the Danville (Va.)
law firm of Daniel, Vaughan,
Medley & Smithernen, where he
concentrates on civil litigation.

Neal M. DeBonte

works for Scott & Stringfellow in
Lynchburg, Va., where he manages
institutional trading and sales of
municipal bonds. He and his wife,
Kim, are actively renovating an
older home there.

Thomas Etergino

is currently living in Moscow for six
months doing CPA work for
Coopers & Lybrand. Home is
Upper Montclair, N.J.

Wade M. Hampton

has joined the Jacksonville (Fla.)
law firm of Fairchild & Berg, where
he practices taxation, corporation,
and estate planning law.

Matthew T. Harrington

is a foreign service officer assigned
to the American Embassy in Accra,
Ghana, since April 1992.

Paul E.M. Hart

was promoted to assistant marketing
manager at Virginia Imports Ltd., a
wine and beer wholesaler. He lives
with classmate Gary Campbell and
Dietrich Wiegmann "90 in
Alexandria, Va.

Dr. William Todd Hartley

is entering his second year of ortho-
pedic surgery residency at
Vanderbilt University Medical
Center in Nashville.

Mark A. Keene

is clerking for U.S. District Judge
George P. Kazen in Laredo, Texas.
He plans to return to Austin and
begin a career in civil litigation in
September.

Charles A. Landis Jr.

lives in ‘Taipei, ‘Taiwan, where he
spends his time working for a trad-
ing company, reading Chinese liter-
ature, and training for triathlons. He
plans to return to the United States
this summer.

David G. McLeod

received his MBA from Vanderbilt
Business School and is now the
assistant director of Social Inc. in
Augusta, Ga., which teaches social
dancing and etiquette to youths in

the Augusta and surrounding South
Carolina areas.

John P. Messerly

received his CPA and is currently
vice president of Courier Express in
Atlanta.

Richard B. Moore Jr.

graduated from the University of
‘Texas Southwestern Medical School
in Dallas. He is now an intern at the
Medical University of South
Carolina in Charleston.

Mark §. Oluvic

is a mechanical engineer for
Newport News Shipbuilding, where
he is currently supporting the over-
haul and refueling of the U.S.S.
Enterprise.

Robert J. Owen

is a graduate student in history at
George Mason University in
Washington, D.C.

William G. Payne

graduated from the Kellogg
Business School at Northwestern
University and now works for the
New York investment firm of
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in its
Dallas office.

Robert L. Powley

practices law at the firm of Nims,
Howes, Collison, Hansen &
Lackert, specializing in trademarks,
patents, and copyrights. He lives in
New Brunswick, N.]J.

Jonathan M. Preziosi

is an attorney in the firm of
Jamieson, Moore, Peskin & Spicer.
He and his wife, Kathleen, live in
Princeton, N.]J.

Norman §. Sigler

is a planning analyst at Northwest
Airlines in Minneapolis. He
received his MBA last year from the
University of Michigan.

Donald O. Thayer Ill
is living and working in Hong Kong.

Swen A. Voekel

is pursuing his doctorate in
Renaissance literature at the
University of Rochester (N.Y.).

Monty G. Warren

works for First Management
Services, a commercial real estate
firm in Nashville.

Robert V. Williamson,

a senior medical student at the
Bowman Gray School of Medicine
of Wake Forest University, has been
awarded a house officer appoint-
ment for 1993-94. He will train in
orthopedics at Fitzsimons Army
Medical Center in Denver.

‘SSL

Robyn L. Aversa
is associated with the Newark (N.]J.)

49

ere emer mere rs eevee were cae eevee ae ee aN ae a are ee me! Mere ey oe ve

Bench Player

Three years ago, Will Massie ’85 was an investment officer
with a Richmond bank—and he was ready to cash it in. “I had

always wanted to do something more creative,” recalls Massie,

j
i

 

1

if

a

ee ee ee

Outside Lee House, Anne Wilson (left) and trustee Pat Leggett review
the garden furniture designs of siblings Annie and Will Massie ’85.

who grew and sold vegetables off a truck in Lynchburg for two
summers while at W&L. “I looked back on that as something
that I truly enjoyed—designing and making something.”

Having had his fill of vegetables, though, Massie focused his
efforts elsewhere in the great outdoors—namely, garden furni-
ture. He scoured old trade catalogs and “sort of fell into these
designs which no one was reproducing” —early 19th-century
English furniture researched from period pattern books and
antique wrought iron garden furniture. Sensing a market for
these designs, Massie investigated reproducing some of the
pieces and “just fell into the business,” he says.

Goodbye, bank job. ‘Today, McKinnon and Harris Inc. sells
its wrought iron garden furniture through landscape architects
or design centers across the United States. (It’s a family busi-
ness: Will handles the business end, while his sister, Annie, is
on the design end.) With eight designs in production and
another half dozen in the works, “We’re just booming right
now,” he says. “It really is a real gratifying business to be in
because a lot of the people we work with have a real love for
the garden and the outdoors.”

And now, his furniture has come home to W&L. A Keswick
two-seater bench was donated to the Lee House by trustee Pat
Leggett, a longtime friend of the Massies. “I grew up in
Lynchburg two doors up from the Leggetts and just stayed in
contact with her,” Massie explains. “It’s so nice to have a bene-
factor like that.” “The Keswick bench at the Lee House is an
original design, he says, with “a Jeffersonian sort of Chippen-
dale feel.” Whatever that means, we're sure that it'll last longer

than a pumpkin on the front porch.

50

law firm of DeMaria, Ellis, Hunt,
Salsburg & Friedman.

Lee M. Bowers Il

made partner in the Huntington
(Ind.) law firm of Bowers, Brewer,
Garrett & Wiley. Bowers is a fourth-
generation partner in the firm.

K. Whitney Krauss

became associated with the law firm
Kummer, Knox & Naughton in
Parsippany, N.J. He also serves as
chairman of the Morris County
Young Republicans and deputy
counsel to the Morris County
Republican Committee.

David M. Schilli

practices bankruptcy law at
Robinson, Bradshaw & Hinson in
Charlotte.

William K. Schwartz

is an attorney with James
Humphreys Esq. in Charleston,
W.Va. He and his wife of one year,
Monica, live in Charleston.

Martha S8.L. Smith

and her husband, Frank, have three
children, Elizabeth Keele, 4, Carter
Leigh, 3, and Stuart, 1, and live in
Roanoke.

Capt. John A. Williamson

is an attorney in the Memphis law
firm of Martin, ‘Tate, Morrow &
Marston.

IO
SY
James H. Barker Jr.

is pursuing his MBA at the
University of Denver.

Catherine M. Boardman

has been promoted to producer with
CNN in Atlanta. She has been with
‘Turner Broadcasting three years.

S. David Burns

was recently promoted to division
manager at the Library Corp. He
works with Gar Sydnor 89, and
Richard Chapman ’92, and lives in
Charles ‘Town, W.Va.

Joseph S. Caccamo

has been promoted to account exec-
utive at Martin Public Relations in
Richmond. He handles public rela-
tions for Wrangler, “the largest man-
ufacturer of authentic western wear
and a leading manufacturer of
denim apparel.”

Michael A. Forrester

recently moved from New York to
Boston to take a new job with
Fidelity Management Trust Co.
Forrester is a vice president and
head of limited partnership funds
and private market investments for
Fidelity’s institutional clients.

Keri Hinrichs Geary
See Stephen P. Geary °83.

Courtney H. Harpold

has graduated from the West
Virginia School of Medicine and has
begun an internal medicine residen-
cy at Georgetown University in
Washington, D.C.

Laura A. Hoopes

is a sales representative for Comcast
Cellular One in Maryland, New
Jersey, and Delaware and was hon-
ored as a top sales representative for
1992. She is also a member of the
board of directors of the Delaware
Chapter of the American Red Cross
and lives in Wilmington, Del.

Frederick W. Lake II]

is currently a loan officer with Aby
Dhabi International Bank in
Washington, D.C. He will be pursu-
ing his MBA at the University of
‘Texas in Austin.

Valerie A. Pierson
works for the J.P. Morgan Co. in
New York.

Margaret P. Rhodes

is co-chair of the Atlanta Pro-Choice
Action Committee. She planned a
January march and rally to celebrate
the 20th anniversary of Roe v. Wade,
and 1,000 people attended.

Joseph F. Rowe

is a third-year medical student at the
Medical College of Virginia in
Richmond.

David E. Thompson
works for Electronic Data Systems
in Dallas.

OIL

Major Steven P. Hammond
was recently promoted to his
present rank while serving with
Headquarters and Support
Battalion, Marine Corps Base, Camp
Lejeune, N.C.

00

Todd W. Bishop

works for the management consult-
ing firm of Terry A. Carlson & Co.
in Springfield, Va. He has a daugh-
ter, Brooke, 4, and recently traveled
to Vail, Colo., with Ian P.
‘Thompson °89.

Caroline M. Carter

works for Georgetown University in
Washington, D.C., in a DNA typing
lab for the National Marrow Donor
Program. Currently, she lives with
classmate Lisa Moody.

Roger E. Fakes Jr.

recently finished his second year of
law school at Memphis State
University and is active in the stu-
dent government there.

Stewart G. Flippen

works for Blue Cross and Blue
Shield in Richmond. He and his

-

wife, Kathleen, have recently
bought a house in the West —
Flippen repor’s seeing Champeiaee
David Cassada and David Robyak.

y J. Frank Jr.

Anthon ,
‘< a third-ycal medical student at
$ | | |
Eastern Virginia Medical School in

Norfolk.

J. Lee Grable Jr.

recently graduated from aN school
at Southern Methodist University.
He plans to take the Texas bar ,
exam and begin work as an associate
attorney with Vial. Hamilton, Koch
& Knox in Dallas.

B Dallas Hagewood
works for the Lighthouse
Consulting Corp. in Atlanta.

Alice L. Harrell

has accepted a second writer's resi-
dency at the Virginia Center for the
Creative Arts. Harrell is currently
employed as a department head at
Barnes & Noble Booksellers in
Richmond.

Lisa C. Moody

has been promoted to legislative
assistant for the Independent
Petroleum Association of America.
She lives in Alexandria, Va.

D. Scott Richardson

is a customs broker and internation-
al forwarder with LAN International,
Inc. at the Baltimore airport. He is
also pursuing a master’s in finance at
Johns Hopkins University.

Mary Katherine C. Seymour
recently finished her master’s in
internationa! business studies at the
University of South Carolina.

Prescott W. Sigmund

is a sales executive with Wolf &
Cohen Insurance Group in
Washington, D.C., where he works
with John Sanders ’84 and Donald
Sigmund °59.

G. Mason Van Sciver
is in sales for Mita Leasing Corp. in
Malvern, Pa.

Justin S. Walker

recently performed the role of Jay in
Neil Simon's Lost in Yonkers at the
Papermil! Playhouse in New Jersey.
He also appears in television com-
mercials for Coke and Eastpak.

Catherine LL. Williams

's the administrator of the Latin
American Department of Holz-Her,
4German oodworking machinery

manufacturer. She lives in
Charlotte.

901

Mary FT. Bradley

nas Joined the Baltimore law firm of
Ydings & Rosenberg, where she

Practices in the firm’s bankruptcy

froup,

ee

;
9]

Christopher C. Baradel

is pursuing a combined law/MBA

degree from the University of

Virginia School of Law and Darden

School of Business. He lives in

Charlottesville.

Robert B. Brown

spent New Year’s Eve in Vail, Colo.,
with classmates John Phoenix,
Mason Pope, Reid Manley, Chris
Berdy, Nikko Hayes, John Stump,
Chris Commander, and Trey Tune.
Also present were Robert Guyton
"89, Robert Haley °90, and Ben
Brown °94. The group spent their
time skiing and moviemaking.
Brown also visited Paris over Easter
weekend, where he saw classmates
Geoff Nagel and John Green
Robinson.

1. Carlyle Campbell

recently moved from Charlotte to
Virginia Beach, where he is enrolled
in a Management training program
with NationsBank.

D. Franklin Daniels Jr.

is an associate director of admissions
at the Webb School in Bell Buckle,
‘Tenn. He is also pursuing a master’s
degree at Vanderbilt University.

Christopher R. Doyle

teaches history and coaches soccer
and basketball at Augusta (Ga.)
Preparatory Day School.

Stephanie A. Fitzgerald
recently relocated from Washington,
D.C, to Nashville to continue work-
ing for former Secretary of
Education Lamar Alexander in the
law firm of Baker, Worthington,
Crossley, Stansberry & Woolf.

Jeffrey C. Hakanson

is a first-year law student at the
South Texas College of Law in
Houston.

Katherine W. Hanley
works for Woodford Publishing in
San Francisco.

J. Brent Hudspeth

is currently employed with Arthur
Andersen Real Estate Consulting in
Washington, D.C.

Mark W. Lotruglio

graduated with honors from the
MBA program at Pennsylvania State
University and now lives in
Manhasset, N.Y.

Christopher T. Mark Jr.
is a national copy editor for Dow
Jones News Service in New York.

S. Kelly Martone

is in the corporate product manage-
ment group of Wachovia Bank in
Atlanta.

Melissa A. Mayer
is pursuing a master’s in occupation-

al therapy at the University of
Florida. She will move to
Washington, D.C., from June to
December for internships.

H. Todd Pearce

received his master’s in mathemat-
ics from Johns Hopkins University
last May.

Alan K. Pierce

of Dallas has finished the financial
analyst program at Stephens Inc.
and will pursue a joint J.D./MBA
degree at the University of ‘Texas
this fall.

L. Hugh Pope Jr.

works for his family’s company,
AFF Inc., which creates and manu-
factures aromatic flavors and fra-
grances. He lives in Marietta, Ga.

Angus B. Rosborough

is doing well at Morgan Stanley in
New York, where he runs the inter-
nal distribution of new issue corpo-

rate and mortgage bonds at the firm.

Richard P. Walt
has finished his first year of law

school at the University of Arkansas.

Michael D. Whorton Jr.

has joined the investment services
group of Donaldson, Lufkin &
Jenrette in Dallas.

GIL

Trina Marie Bragdon

recently moved to Philadelphia and
joined the firm of Saul, Ewing,
Remick & Saul.

Emily Catherine Dabney

has passed both the Virginia and
Mississippi bar exams and has
joined her family law firm of
Dabney & Dabney in Vicksburg,
Miss.

Julie Hottle Day

is an associate in the Fairfax (Va.)
law firm of Dixon, Smith & Stahl
and specializes in commercial and
construction litigation. She lives in
Greenbelt, Md.

Betty 8S. Kohlberg

teaches Intro to American Legal
Systems at Fisher College in
Malden, Mass. She also teaches
watercolor at the Massachusetts
College of Art in Boston.

Eric D. Peterson

is an associate in the Chicago law
firm of Bollinger, Ruberry &
Garvey.

Robert L. Powley
See *88.

92

Ann D. Barton

is living in Raleigh and working as a
corporate account officer for
Wachovia.

James A. Cadranell
is a Sales associate for G. Drack
Realty Inc. in Seattle.

Robert J. Cavese

is an analyst for Fleet Bank in
Albany, N.Y.

Coleman J. Devlin
is living in Baltimore and is active in
the local SPCA chapter.

Elizabeth M. Fox

works for Lou Hammond &
Associates, a New York public rela-
tions firm specializing in travel.

Brian C. Huber

is interning with Formtech, a com-
puter software company and also
works for Career Sports Inter-
national, a financial planning group
for athletes. He lives with classmate
Spencer Patton in Atlanta.

Craig N. Lang Jr.

is a legislative assistant to
Congressman Richard Baker and
lives in Washington, D.C.

Douglas A. Lindsay
is an accounting staff intern at
Marshall, Jones & Co. in Atlanta.

Devon A. McAllister
is a marketing coordinator for Vanity
Fair in New York.

Joseph P. Milcoff

is a maintenance platoon leader with
the Echo Battery 12-43 of the Air
Defense Artillery, which includes
the Patriot Missile. He is based at
Fort Polk, La.

Spencer Y. Patton

works for the real estate trust
department of Wachovia Bank in
Atlanta.

David J. Petersen
is a financial analyst at the Federal
Reserve Bank of Atlanta.

Palmer L. Skoglund Il1l

has been transferred to Charlotte
from Atlanta, where he works for
Interstate/Johnson Lane as a bond
trader.

Peer A. Soderberg

is currently the assistant wrestling
coach at Princeton (N.J.) High
School. He will be attending the
University of Medicine and
Dentistry of New Jersey in the fall.

Roger P. Sullivan

lives in Atlanta, where he studies
acting at the Alliance Theatre
School and has performed in several
professional musical productions.
He is also featured in an upcoming
movie starring Kim Basinger.

Edward M. Wilson

works in the office of passenger car
development and engineering of the
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. in Ozaki,
Japan.

51

92.

Robert Warren Doyle Jr.

has joined the Baltimore law firm of
‘Tydings & Rosenberg, where he
practices in the litigation group.

Jessica Katherine Martin

is an attorney with the Richmond
law firm of McSweeney, Burtch &
Crump.

Matthew Patrick Pritts

is an associate in the Roanoke firm
of Woods, Rogers & Hazlegrove.

Scott Dean Welling

has joined the Lansing (Mich.) firm
of Hubbard, Fox, Thomas, White &
Bengston.

Joseph Samuel Zasa

is corporate counsel for Premier
Ambulatory Systems Inc., the third-
largest owner of ambulatory surgery
centers in the United States. He
lives in Pasadena, Calif.

Marriages

Edgar L. Smith ?38L

to Mary Alice McMillan, on Jan. 28,
1993. The couple lives in
Lewisburg, W.Va.

Craig T. Distelhorst °63
to Tracy Shane Kramer, on March
27, 1993, in Greenville, Del.

Richard M. Barron ’79

to Rachel Stiffler, on Nov. 7, 1992.
The wedding party included Gerald
M. Malmo ’79 and John R. Cole Jr.
°80. Barron is editor of 7r1ad Business
News in Greensboro, N.C. The cou-
ple lives in Winston-Salem.

John V. C. Saylor °79

to Georgia Ann Pearson, on Aug. 22,
1992, in Warren, Vt. Saylor is a part-
ner with Andersen Consulting in
Boston.

Paul C. Hendry °80

to Cristi Anne Broach, on Dec. 31,
1992, in Riverside, Calif. Hendry
teaches high school English in south
central Los Angeles.

Lucien T. Megna ’80

to Jean McTigue, on Sept. 5, 1992,
in Princeton, N.J. Megna is a part-
ner with Arbor Family Medicine in
‘Thornton, Colo.

David C. Tyler ’82
to Ella Irwin Smith, on Oct. 10,
1992, in Atlanta.

Daniel L. Weiss ’82

to Nancy Carolyn Slater, on Nov.
14, 1992, in Chevy Chase, Md.
Weiss works at Price Waterhouse in
Washington, D.C.

J. Ambler Cusick ’83
to Meredith Lee Merrill, on Oct. 10,
1992, in Chicago. ‘The wedding

party included classmates Glenn A.
Drake and David M. Hagigh, as well
as John A. Sanders 84, Charles C.
Kannapell Jr. 86, and Frank F.
Kannapell ’88. The couple lives in
Washington, D.C.

Michael J. Cregan °85

to Ellen K. Peeples, on Oct. 24,
1992, in Houston. The bride is the
daughter of Robert I. Peeples 57.
The wedding party included class-
mates lan G. Banwell and Kevin J.
McClatchy. The couple lives in
Houston.

Andrew M. Gibson ’87

to Mary Beth Vassil, on Oct. 3, 1992,
in Atlanta. ‘The wedding party
included classmates John E. Atkins,
John L. Brownlee, Robert T.
LaFargue , and Robert H. Tolleson.
The couple lives in Atlanta.

Douglas E. Harvey °87

to Dorcine E. Davidson, on May 30,
1992. Harvey is a senior accountant
at the United Network for Organ
Sharing in Richmond.

Dr. H. Baltzer LeJeune ’87

to Suzanne Guareh, on Nov. 21,
1992, in New Orleans. LeJeune is in
his second year of a otolaryngology
residency at Tulane University
Medical Center in New Orleans.

Paul T. Colella ’88L

to Maryann Wickert, on April 24,
1993, in Staten Island, N.Y. The
wedding party included classmates
David A. Walsh and Franklin B.
Bredimus. Colella is an associate in
the corporate and securities depart-
ment of Giordano, Halleran &
Ciesla. The couple lives in
Manalapan, N.]J.

Brian 8. Haggerty ’88

to Gina M. Russo, on June 27, 1992.
Haggerty is finishing his PhD. in
chemistry at the University of
Delaware. The couple lives in
Valley Stream, N.Y.

Alston Page Parker ’89

to Philip Cargill Watt, on Feb. 20,
1993, in Thomasville, Ga. The wed-
ding party included classmates
Eleanor C. Nelson, Patience J.
Garrett, Caroline E. Boone, Erin D.
Cosby, and Julie Sheppard. The
couple lives in Los Angeles.

Thomas W. Wingfield 89

to Amy L. Grady, on Oct. 3, 1992.
‘The wedding party included class-
mates Douglas E. Klump, Peter J.
Coleman, and Keith D. Boyd.
Wingfield is a pharmaceutical sales
representative with Organon, Inc. in
Matthews, N.C.

Jonathan E. Ryan °90

to Amy C. Hatcher 91,

on April 10, 1993, in Chicago. ‘The
couple lives in Birmingham, where
Ryan is a producer at WBRC-TYV.

Charles F. Hoffman °91
to Sarah Whitsett °92,
on March 6, 1993, in Louisville, Ky.

Thomas D. Lovell °91

to Wendy Renee Wolford °90,
on April 17, 1993, in Danville, Va.
‘The wedding party included
Lovell’s classmates Jason L. Parker,
Richard M. Spence, and Jeffrey S.
Rogers °91, "94L, and Wolford’s
classmates Kristen E. Haring,
Stephanie J. DeMourna, and Chery!
C. Bowles. The couple lives in San
Diego.

Bryant J. Spann ’91

to Carol W. Damewood ’92,
on Dec. 19, 1992, in Charleston,
W.Va. The bride is the daughter of
‘Thomas Carl Damewood °51, ’53L.
‘The wedding party included Mary
Beth Anstine °92, S. Elise Bryant
92, Andrew J. Keller 92, and
Harley Walsh °91. ‘The couple lives
in Athens, Ga., where the groom
attends law school and the bride
attends graduate school at
University of Georgia.

Harold H. Wingerd I1l °91
to Christine Elizabeth Sullivan, on
Feb. 27, 1993, in Merion, Pa. The
wedding party included Richard K.
‘Thompson °90 and Matthew W.
Grey 90. The couple lives in West
Chester, Pa.

Births

Mr. @ Mrs. Paul G. Cavaliere
Jr. °74, a daughter, Kristen Elise,
on April 3, 1993. She joins brother,
Paul, III, 10, and sister, Kimberly, 6.
The family lives in Kensington,
Conn.

Mr. © Mrs. William H. Biesel
Jr. °75, a daughter, Laura
Elizabeth, on March 25, 1993. The
family lives in Dallas.

Mr. @ Mrs. Donald G. Carroll
°76, ason, Donald Gordon, Jr., on
Jan. 7, 1993. The family lives in
Baltimore.

Mr. @ Mrs. John A. Cocklereece
Jr. °76,’79L, a daughter, Ivy
Dunham, on April 11, 1993. The
family lives in Winston-Salem, N.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. John B. Keefe ’76,
a son, Robert Arthur, on Jan. 5,

1993. The family lives in Richmond,
where Keefe works in institutional
sales and research with Anderson &
Strudwick.

Mr. @ Mrs. Roger B. Leithead
Jr. °77, ason, Michael, on Dec.
29, 1992. He joins a brother, Barry,
4. The family lives in Atlanta, where
Leithead is a partner with Childress
Klein Properties.

Mr. @ Mrs. George L. Carson
Jr. ’78, a daughter, Maggie Anne,

on Feb. 12, 1993. The family lives
in Gurnee, Ill.

Mr. @ Mrs. John H. Collmys
‘78, a son, David Allen, on Jan, 31
1993. He joins sisters, Heather andl
Laura, and brother John Paul. The
family lives in Charlottesville, Va.,
where Collmus is assistant headmas-
ter at the Covenant School.

Mr. @ Mrs. Howard F. Knipp
I/1 °78, a daughter, Eleanor
Dunlap, on April 21, 1993. She joins
sisters Barbara, 3, and Natalie, 1,
‘The family lives in Baltimore.

Mr. @ Mrs. James N. Lynn ’78
a daughter, Diana Patricia, on Oct.
7, 1992. The family lives in
Baltimore, where Lynn is a public-
relations manager for McCormick
Spice.

Mr. @ Mrs. Marcus M. Pennelj
III °78, a daughter, Mary
Katherine, on April 8, 1993. She
joins a sister, Anne Warner, 2.
Pennell works for Chubb & Son Ine.
in Pittsburgh.

Mr. Michael J. Bommarito ’80L
@ Patricia Ann Calore ’83L,a
daughter, Paige Annalise, on Dee.
25, 1992. She joins a brother,
Michael. ‘The couple are both attor-
neys with the Lansing (Mich.) firm
of Foster, Swift, Collins & Smith.

Dr. @ Mrs. John G.P.
Boatwright Jr. ’81, a daughter,
Grace Hawthorne Phillips, on Dee.
18, 1992. She joins a brother, Ross,
2. The family lives in Mount
Pleasant, S.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Gerrald A. Giblin
Jr. ’81, a daughter, Mariah Anne,
on March 5, 1993. She joins a sister,
Allison, 2. The family lives in
Houston.

Mr. @ Mrs. Christopher H.
Greatwood °81, ason, Colin
Neal, on Aug. 6, 1992. Greatwood is
the quality assurance manager at
ICI Films in Hopewell, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Lee V. Minetree ’81,
a son, Lee Garner, on June 8, 1992.
The family lives in Sag Harbor, N.Y.

Mr. @ Mrs. John P. Purcell “81,
a daughter, Ellen Carter, on March
11, 1993. She joins a brother,
Robbie, 3. Purcell was recently pro-
moted to research specialist with the
agricultural group of the Monsanto
Co. In the past three years, he has
authored numerous scientific papers
and is an inventor on three biotech-
nology patent applications. The
family lives in Ellisville, Mo.

Mr. @ Mrs. Mark W. Scully “81,
a son, Dunstan William, on June 17,
1992. He joins a brother, Brendan.
Scully is a consulting actuary with
‘Tillinghast in London.

ee ee eee ee ee

—

@ Mrs. Madison T.
dward [i] ’81, ason,
Bernard, on Jan. 26, 1993.
a brother, Madison, 6. The
New Orleans.

Mr.
Woo
Marshall
He joins
family lives!"
yrs. Susan May Eckman ’82L
ad her husband, Rick, a daughter,
Louisa Emma, on Feb. 21, 1993.
She joins sisters Elizabeth, 8, im
Katharine, 6. and Susannah, 4. The
family lives in Wilmington, Del.

@& Mrs. Edmund P. Perry
ighter, Elizabeth Fields,
8. 1992. The family lives

Mr.
‘g2, ada
on Sept. |
in Birmingham.

yr. @ Mrs. Thomas Y. Savage
*@2L, a son, Nicholas James, on
Dec. 3, 1992. He joins a sister,
Hannah. Savage was recently hon-
ered by the Virginia Jaycees for his
work with The Friends of the
Rappahannock, Volunteer Emer-
gency Familics for Children, the
Goldvein Volunteer Fire Depart-
ment, and the Rappahannock/
Rapidan Rivers Conservation Plan-
ning Group. The family lives in
Fredericksburg.

Mr. @ Mrs. James L. Shepherd
‘82. a daughter, Sarah Edwards, on
Nov. 16, 1992. Shepherd was recent-
ly promoted to assistant general
counsel of Travsco Energy Ventures
Co. in Houston.

Mr. @ Mrs. David C. Bowen
‘83, ason, David Charles Jr., on
Nov. 30, 1992. The family lives in
Norfolk, Va., where Bowen is a part-
ner in the law firm of Willcox &
Savage.

Mr. @ Mrs. William W. (Scott)
Broom Jr. 83, a daughter, Molly
Birdsall, on Jan. 5, 1993. The family
lives in Baltimore, where Broom is
an environmental reporter for
WMAR-TY.

Patricia A. Calore ’83L
See Michae! J. Bommarito ’80L.

Mr. @ Mrs. William M.
France Jr. ’83, ason, Mark
Edward, on Dec. 28, 1992. He joins
a sister, Mary Catherine, 1. The
family lives in Lancaster, Ohio.

Mr. © Mrs. Nicholas J. Kaiser
83L, a daughter, Alexandra
Raskob, on Dec. 19, 1992. The fam-
ily lives in Short Hills, N.]J.

Mr, © Mrs. Matthew L. Kimball
Bel, a son. Will Baldwin, on Sept.
“1, 1992. He joins a sister, Margaret,
4,anda brother, Everett, 7. The
family lives in Baltimore.

Mr. & Mrs. Michael E. Nogay
S3L, triplets, Maximillian,
‘dward, and Jennifer, on May 28,
1992, The family lives in Weirton,
W.Va,

Mr. @ Mrs. William A. Powel
III °83L, a daughter, Whitney
Parker, on Jan. 2, 1993. She joins
Lindsey, 8, Read, 6, and Cameron,
3. The family lives in Shaker
Heights, Ohio.

Mr. @ Mrs. Fred H. Rindge V
’83, ason, Nicholas Ryan, on April
14, 1993. He joins a sister, Brianna
‘Taylor, 1. The family lives in
Charleston, S.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Henry W. Royal
"83, a daughter, Emily Jane, on
Feb. 18, 1993. She joins a brother,
Wood, and sister, Anna. The family
lives in Huntersville, N.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Raymond A. Ceresa
"84, ason, Ryan Matthew, on
March 17, 1993. The family lives in
Sterling, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Bruce N. Dean ’84,
a son, Henry George, on Jan. 25,
1993. He joins sisters Mary Kathryn,
4, and Abigail, 3. The family lives in
Frederick, Md.

Dr. @ Mrs. Keith T. Kadesky
*84, ason, Andrew Max, on March
4, 1993. The family lives in Dallas.

Mr. @ Mrs. Mark A. Lukes ’84,
a son, Matthew Joseph, on March
25, 1993. He joins a sister, Megan.
The family lives in Lancaster, Pa.

Mr. @ Mrs. Thomas W.
Pritchard ’84, ason, Thomas
Ward Jr., on Aug. 31, 1992. Pritchard
is an institutional equity salesman
for Johnson Rice & Co. in New
Orleans.

Mr. @ Mrs. Richard C. Swagler
Jr. ’84, a daughter, Allison Lee, on
Sept. 14, 1992. The family lives in
Washington, D.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. John D. Mixon Jr.
*85, ason, John Delano III, on
Dec. 19, 1993. Mixon is a senior
consultant with Andersen
Consulting-Change Management
Services in Houston.

Mr. @ Mrs. Kevin J. Buckley
*85L, ason, Isaac Kevin, on Dec.
11, 1992. He joins his two brothers,
Austin, 9, and Emmett, 4, and his
sister, Erin, 7. Buckley practices
with Hunton & Williams in
Richmond.

Mrs. Roberta Ann Bondurant
*86L and her husband, Thomas, a
son, Thomas Jack III, on Jan. 4,
1993. He joins a sister, Kathryn, 2.
The family lives in Roanoke.

Mr. @ Mrs. Kevin W. Lederer
’87, ason, William Ward, on April
28, 1993. The family lives in
Alexandria, Va.

Dr. @ Mrs. Andrew M. Reibach
’87, ason, Stephen Powell, on
March 19, 1993, in Pueblo, Colo.
Reibach is a second-year resident at

Firm Believer

No would-be lawyer, it seems, is immune from taking the
bar exam—and that includes l’om Cruise (even though he

played one in his last screen outing, A Kew Good Men). So when

 

 

Screen test: Barbara Zoccola ’86L. administers Mitch McDeere’s bar
exam under the direction of Sydney Pollack (right).

it came time for the producers of 7he Firm to film the
‘Tennessee bar exam, they found someone who knew their way
around the Memphis State University Law School, where the
exam is administered twice each year.

But when Barbara Morris Zoccola ’86L, and her husband
Will (also a lawyer) answered a casting call one Sunday in
Memphis, she was told by an interviewer that she was too
young for a secretary’s part, and there were no paralegals in the
firm. Then Will got a call-back—and he overheard talk they
needed a woman to administer the bar exam. “You ought to get
my wife,” he told them. “She gives the bar exam.”

And so it came to pass that Zoccola, an assistant U.S.
Attorney in the western district of ‘’ennessee, nabbed the part
of head proctor in the current film adaptation of John
Grisham’s bestseller. Director Sydney Pollack shot the scene
in the exact room where she administers the bar every
February and July. Pollack was “very nice, very professional,”
she says, and Zoccola advised the crew on the use of pencils,
the permissibility of candies and gum in the testing area, and
other minutiae for authenticity’s sake. (Her husband was
among those taking the bar .)

The scene required four hours and roughly eight takes to
film, and Zoccola got a chance to meet Mitch McDeere him-
self—T’om Cruise—between takes. And the verdict? He’s no
Will Zoccola. “He’s very nice and nice looking and all that, and
a fine actor,” she told 74e Commercial Appeal in Memphis. “But
I think my husband’s cuter.” (“He’s received a lot of abuse
about that ever since,” she adds.)

Unless her scene wound up on the cutting-room floor, view-
ers Can spot not two, but “Aree Zoccolas on the big screen.
When Zoccola filmed the scene, she was in the first trimester
of a pregnancy (daughter Maria Davis was born May 21). The

baby was in the movie, too,” she says. “No one knew.”

the Southern Colorado Family
Medicine Program.

Mr. @ Mrs. James J. Buquet Ill
88, ason, James J. IV, on April 2,
1993. The family lives in Houma,
La.

Mrs. Robin E. Dearing ’88L
and her husband, William, a son,
Clay, on June 15, 1992. He joins a
brother, William. Dearing is an
attorney with the Roanoke law firm
of Jolly, Place, Fralin & Prillaman.

Mrs. Laura Hicks Roberts ’88L
and her husband, Jeffrey, a son,
Andrew Alton, on March 7, 1992.
The family lives in Coral Gables,
Fla., where Laura has retired from
her law practice to be a mother.

Mr. William W. Senft ’88L @
Mrs. Louise Phipps Senft ’88L,
a son, Peter Zepp, on Jan. 25, 1993.
The family lives in Baltimore.

Mrs. Amy Pickett Marks ’89
and her husband, Jan, a son, Jacob
Anderson, on Feb. 26, 1993. Marks
is an account manager with Health-
america. The family lives in
Oakmont, Pa.

Mr. Alan J. Heinrich °90 @
Mrs. Eileen Labashinsky
Heinrich °90, a daughter, Shana
Ford, on Dec. 10, 1992. She joins a
sister, Kelli Loria, 2. The family
lives in Buffalo, N.Y.

Mrs. Jennifer K. O’Quinn ’91,
and her husband, James, a son,
Collin, on Sept. 9, 1992. The family
lives in Athens, Ga.

Mr. @ Mrs. Mitchel Neurock
"92L, a daughter, Aryn Grace, on
Feb. 10, 1993. The family lives in
Hopkinsville, Ky.

in Memoriam

Dr. John T. Bate °19,

retired surgeon, died Feb. 25, 1993,
in Louisville, Ky. While at W&L, he
was a member of Beta Theta Pi fra-
ternity, Phi Beta Kappa, and Delta
Sigma Rho-TKA. He received his
medical degree from the University
of Virginia in 1922. He was the dis-
trict surgeon for the Louisville &
Nashville Railroad Co., Pennsylva-
nia Railroad, and Penn Central.

Dr. Harry Lyons ’22,

dean emeritus of the Medical
College of Virginia School of
Dentistry, died April 15, 1993. He
joined the MCV faculty in 1928,
becoming dean of the School of
Dentistry in 1950. He retired in
1970. In 1992, dental school alumni
established the Harry Lyons _
Distinguished Professorship in his
honor. Lyons served as president of
the American Dental Association in
1957, was a trustee of the Jewish
Community Federation and was also
a 70-year Mason.

54

S. Saunders Guerrant Jr. °23,
retired salesman for The Mutual
Life Insurance Co., died Oct. 4,
1992, in Roanoke. He began work-
ing for Mutual Life in 1927 and also
owned and operated an apple
orchard from 1925 to 1941. He was
an elder and deacon of the First
Presbyterian Church and author of
Franklin County Corn.

Nathaniel Summerfield °24,
formerly of Memphis, ‘Tenn. died
Nov. 28, 1992. While at W&L, he
was a member of Zeta Beta ‘Tau fra-
ternity.

Murrel D. Klein °25,

former owner of Klein & Appel
Insurance, died Jan. 23, 1993, in
Louisville, Ky. While at W&L, he
majored in commerce and was a
member of Phi Epsilon Pi fraternity.
He entered the insurance business
in 1926. He was very active in chari-
ty work, having been president of
the Conference of Jewish
Organizations and president of
Adath Jeshurun Congregation.

Clyde 8. McCall 27,

retired superintendent of flying for
American Air Lines, died March 9,
1993, in Fort Worth, ‘Texas. He
spent only his freshman year at
W&L and was a member of Alpha
‘Tau Omega fraternity.

I. William Hill ’29,

former managing editor of 7he
Washington Star, died March 8, 1993,
in Hilton Head, S.C. While at
W&L, he majored in English and
was a member of Lambda Chi Alpha
fraternity, Sigma Delta Chi, and the
White Friars. During a 42-year
career at the Svar, he served as a
copy editor, makeup editor, city edi-
tor, news editor, and managing edi-
tor and was associate editor when it
folded in 1982. He also worked as a
correspondent for Editor @ Publisher
and was a book critic for the Hilton
Head /sland Packet. He served as
president of the Associated Press
Managing Editors Association, chair-
man of the Newspaper Comics
Council, and a member of the
American Society of Newspaper
Editors.

Frank L. Spencer ’29,

retired secretary of the Marine
Specialty Co. in Mobile, Ala., died
Feb. 10, 1993. He was a member of
Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity.

John E. Taylor 29,
retired program director for the U.S.
Public Health Service, died Feb. 17,
1993, in Memphis. He and his wife,
Hazel, had six children.

James W. McDill ’30,

retired division manager of ‘Texaco,
died on July 13, 1992, in Hilton
Head, S.C. While at W&L, he was a
member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fra-
ternity. Upon retiring, he and his

wife, Harriet, moved to Sea Pines
Plantation on Hilton Head Island,
where he served as a charter mem-
ber and president of the Sea Pines
Golf Club. He also took part in run-
ning the first Heritage Golf ‘Tourna-
ment and was an honorary life mem-
ber of the board of trustees of the
Heritage Classic Corp.

Dr. Leonard C. Borland 31,
retired Roanoke dental surgeon,
died March 3, 1993. While at W&L,
he majored in organic chemistry and
was a member of Pi Kappa Phi fra-
ternity. After graduation Borland
studied at the Loyola University
School of Dentistry and later did
postgraduate work at Northwestern
University and the University of
Illinois. He was a member of First
Presbyterian Church and the
Roanoke Men’s Garden Club.

Lawton M. Calhoun °31,
retired president and chief execu-
tive officer of Savannah Foods &
Industries Inc., died Feb. 2, 1993, in
Savannah, Ga. A history major at
W&L, he was a member of Kappa
Alpha fraternity and the Sigma
Society. Calhoun joined the
Savannah Sugar Refining Co. in
1940, becoming president in 1961.
He retired in 1972. A World War II
veteran, he was a former chairman
of the Savannah Port Authority and
former president of the Savannah
Chamber of Commerce.

Bradford E. Haley ’31,

retired partner of Nichols & Co.,
died Dec. 14, 1992, in Camden, S.C.
He was a member of Phi Delta
Theta fraternity and received both a
B.A. and B.S. from W&L. He was a
former president of the Children’s
Home in Camden, S.C.

Herbert B. Luria I11l 31,
former consultant with Luria
Brothers & Co. Inc., died May 13,
1992, in Birmingham. At W&L he
was a member of Zeta Beta ‘Tau fra-
ternity. Luria spent several years in
the Navy as a lieutenant senior
grade, after which he joined Luria
Bros., an iron and steel brokerage
firm in Birmingham. He was also
president of the southeast chapter of
the Institute of Scrap Iron & Steel.

Col. James K. Osterman °31,
retired U.S. Army colonel, died Dec.
27, 1992, in Huntsville, Ala. He
transferred to W&L from Franklin
& Marshall College, where he was a
member of Phi Sigma Kappa frater-
nity. At W&L, he majored in history
and political science. He spent his
entire career in the U.S. Army trav-
eling extensively around the world.

Dr. Reno R. Porter ’31,
emeritus professor of medicine at
the Medical College of Virginia,
died on Feb. 3, 1993, in Richmond.
A member of Alpha Chi Rho and
the University chorus while at

W&L, he received his medica]
degree from MCV in 1935. He was
fellow and assistant in cardiology to
Dr. Paul D. White at Massachusetre
General Hospital in Boston. He wa,
also attending physician and Profes.
sor of medicine at MCV until his
retirement in 1986. A founding
member of the Virginia Heart
Association, he was also a member _
of River Road Presbyterian Church
and the Society of the Cincinnati.

   
    
 
   
    
  
 
   
 
   
 

Horace A. Hartgrove °32,
former rancher in San Angelo,
‘Texas, died March 26, 1993, A
member of Kappa Sigma fraternity i
while at W&L, he was later active jy
the Masonic Lodge, Lions Club,
and other civic activities. He chairec
the committee that established the —
Reagan County Memorial Hospital _
and served on the Reagan County
school board.

Frank R. Bailey °33,

retired vice president of Inter-
national Nickel Co., died Feb. 24,
1992. An engineering major and a
member of Alpha ‘Tau Omega fra-
ternity at W&L, he joined Inter-
national Nickel in 1934, where he
worked until 1972. Bailey served in
the Navy during World War II, and
at the start of the Korean War was
released by International Nickel asa
consultant to the Department of
Commerce. He was a member of
the National Defense Reserve and
the board of sponsors of the
Ophthalmic Research Institute.

Robert Bricken °33,
former member of Bricken Brothers
Inc., a real estate and construction
firm, died Jan. 26, 1993, in New
York. For the last two decades of hi
life, he was involved in the breeding
of race horses, with more than 150
stakes winners.

Dr. Henry L. Haines °34,
retired ear, nose, and throat special-
ist, died Feb. 15, 1993, in New
London, Conn. He was the identica
twin of John S. Haines °34. He was
the retired chief of otorhinolarynge
ogy department at Lawrence
Memorial Hospital in New London.
Haines received his medical degree
from Johns Hopkins University in
1939, where he later was an assistaf
professor and a member of the uni-
versity’s national resources commit-
tee. He served as president of the
otolaryngological section of the
Connecticut Medical Society and —
was in private practice for 37 years. —

Richard Sale ’34,

novelist, screenwriter, and director
who turned his novels into films,
including The Oscar and The White
Buffalo, died March 4, 1993, in Los
Angeles. He was a member of Delta
Upsilon fraternity. Sale wrote sever
al suspense and comedy films
including Sudden/y in 1954, starring
Frank Sinatra and Sterling Hayden.

 

 

 

 

 

 

——
H O M ECO M I N G ‘<¢9
FIVE-STAR GENERALS’ REUNION
CLASS OF 1938—55TH REUNION
CLUSTER REUNION FOR THE UNDERGRADUATE AND LAW CLASSES
1990, 1991, 1992, AND 1993

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8 SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9
12:10 p.M.: THE JOHN RANDOLPH TUCKER LECTURE 11:00 A.M.: HOMECOMING PARADE THROUGH
4. Leon Higginbotham Jr., Senior Judge for the U.S. Court DOWNTOWN LEXINGTON
of Appeals for the Third Circutt, Philadelphia 12:30 P.M.: ALUMNI LUNCHEON
12:30 p.M.: LUNCHEON for Five-Star Generals, Alumni Entertainment by the Jim Caldwell Band
Board of Directors, Law Council, and their spouses 2:00 P.M.: FOOTBALL—GENERALS VS. DAVIDSON
2:00 p.M.: HOMECOMING KEYNOTE ADDRESS Crowning of the 1993 Homecoming Queen and a Special
6:00 P.M.: RECEPTION FOR ALL ALUMNI honoring the Halftime Show
Five-Star Generals and the 1993 Homecoming Queen Court 4:30 P.M.: ALUMNI RECEPTION
7:00 p.M.: FIVE-STAR GENERALS REUNION BANQUET
8:45 p.M.: CONCERT: W@L Choral Ensembles including FOR MORE INFORMATION, WRITE: HOMECOMING °93
Jubilee and Southern Comfort W&L ALUMNI INC., LEXINGTON, VA 24450

BERMUDA BOWL

FESTIVAL ’93

 

(SREAT SCHOOLS. GREAT COMPETITION. GREAT PRICE.
You are cordially invited to attend the
First Annual Bermuda Bowl Festival
featuring

Washington and Lee University and Georgetown University

    

The First Annual Bermuda Bowl Festival is just a few short months away. Among the highlights of this friendly competition:

* ‘lhe Georgetown and Washington and Lee football teams will play in the first-ever football game to be played

in Bermuda at the National Sports Centre.
* Before tackling one another on the playing fields, the student-athletes will tackle questions concerning college

athletics today in a symposium format.
* Alumni and parents will participate in their own competitions between the schools featuring golf and tennis

tournaments.
* ‘lhe activities of the festival will be friendly but competitive, with the Bermuda Bowl Cup at stake for the

school with the most points at the end of the weekend.

Renew old friendships with teammates and classmates, while vacationing at one of the most beautiful spots on earth —
Peaceful, pastel Bermuda.

The Bermuda Bowl Festival is November 18-21, 1993. For more information on the great price, call Robustelli Travel at
(800) 243-2654 or (800) 248-0319 and ask for the Bermuda Bowl coordinator, or call the W&L Alumni Office at (703) 463-8464.

55

With his former wife, Mary Anita
Loos, he wrote Campus Honeymoon
(1948), /°// Get By (1950), and
Gentlemen Marry Brunettes (1955). His
films as director include My Wife's
Best Friend (1952), The Girl Next Door
(1953), and Adandon Ship (1957). He
published more than 400 short sto-
ries and moved to Hollywood to
work for Paramount in 1944.

Allan W. Woolfolk 35,

former supervisor for Nutrilite Inc.,
died March 26, 1993, in Loma
Linda, Calif. A journalism major at
W&L, Woolfolk trained pilots on
Ryan PT-22 planes during World
War II. After the war, he and his
wife, Carol, took over her family
business, the Eastside beer distribu-
torship and ice plant in San Jacinto.
An actor with the Ramona Hillside
Players and the Pasadena
Playhouse, he also appeared in the
TV series “Gunsmoke” and was a
member of the Screen Actors Guild.

Jason D. Hobbie I1l °37,
retired president and treasurer of
Hobbie Brothers, died March 2,
1993, in Roanoke. While at W&L he
was a member of Kappa Sigma fra-
ternity and managed the basketball
team. He joined his father at
Hobbie Brothers in 1938, becoming
president/treasurer in 1965. He was
a former member of the board of
directors of the National Association
of Music Merchants, an arbitrator of
the Roanoke Valley Better Business
Bureau, director of the Roanoke
Valley Chamber of Commerce, and
a member of the Roanoke Kiwanis
and Rotary clubs.

Osgood H. Peckham ’37,
formerly of Decatur, IIl., died July
13, 1992. While at W&L, he was a
member of Delta Tau Delta frater-
nity. Peckham worked for several
rubber companies, including Good-
year and Oberjuerge Rubber Dis-
tributing in St. Louis. He later
served as general manager of Miller
Industrial Supply Co. in Decatur.

C. Price Berryman °38,

former owner of the Home Lumber
& Supply Co., died Feb. 28, 1993.
At W&L, he earned his degree from
the commerce school and was a
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fra-
ternity. He was a veteran of World
War II and was assigned to the
amphibious combined forces in the
Pacific theater. After the war, he
returned to Fredonio, Kan., where
he worked for Home Developments
Inc. until he assumed ownership of
Home Lumber in Fredonio.

Charles A. Sisson ’38,

retired traffic manager with Springs
Industries, died April 18, 1993, in
Charlotte. A member of Phi Kappa
Psi fraternity, Sisson spent two years
at W&L.

Theodore Donaldson °40,
retired account executive with
Shearson Hammill, died Nov. 23,
1992, in Lighthouse Point, Fla. A
member of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity,
he served with the Navy in the
Pacific theater during World War IL.

Harold Nelson Cox °40,

retired program analyst at the
Department of Agriculture, died
March 23, 1993, in Falls Church, Va.
A member of Alpha ‘Tau Omega fra-
ternity, Cox served in the Navy dur-
ing World War II. In 1946, he went
to work for the Census Bureau in
Washington, D.C. In 1957, he
joined the Agriculture Department,
and was a program analyst in the
Agricultural Control and
Stabilization Service when he
retired in 1972.

Dr. Benjamin F. Huntley °46,
retired physician, died Jan. 31, 1993,
in Hartsville, S.C. A member of
Delta Tau Delta fraternity, he trans-
ferred to Duke from W&L in 1943,
and enrolled in Harvard Medical
School in 1944, graduating in 1948.
Following the Korean War, he prac-
ticed internal medicine in Bristol,
‘Tenn., and then in Winston-Salem,
N.C., until his retirement in 1983.

R. Clayton Camden °49,

retired school administrator, died
Feb. 8, 1993, in Lexington, Va. A
member of the first graduating class
of Natural Bridge High School, he
served in the U.S. Navy during
World War II before entering W&L.
He received a B.A. in history from
W&L and a master’s in education
from the University of Virginia in
1956. He taught, coached, and
served as principal of several schools
in Rockbridge County and served as
director of instruction for Buena
Vista Public Schools for 11 years,
where he implemented the year-
round school system. He also served
as president of the Buena Vista
Lions Club, director of the Mental
Health Association and as a director
of public TV station WVPT. In
1975, he was named Buena Vista
Lions Club Citizen of the Year.

Robert H. Ramsey ’49L,
former senior writer for the U.S.
Army Transportation School, died
March 5, 1993, in Newport News,
Va.

William E. Hines Il ’52,
retired business executive, died
June 30, 1992, in Cherry Hill, N.J.
While at W&L, Hines was a mem-
ber of Phi Kappa Psi fraternity and
the basketball team. After gradua-
tion, he became a sales representa-
tive in Charleston, W.Va., with the
National Carbon Co., a division of
Union Carbide Corp. Hines was
eventually promoted to division
manager of home and automotive
products for Union Carbide in

Washington, D.C., in 1970. He
retired from the company in 1991.

Thomas A. Jacob ’52,

retired vice president of sales of
Bohanna and Pierce, died Dec. 9,
1992, in Walnut Creek, Calif. While
at W&L, he was a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

Carl D. Leach Jr. ’52,

former senior vice president of the
First National Bank of
Christiansburg, Va., died Feb. 2,
1993. He spent two years at W&L
and was a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha fraternity before transferring
to the University of Richmond.

Robert V. K. Snevily ’52L,
retired attorney in the Westfield
(N.J.) law firm of Snevily, Ely &
Williams, died Sept. 29, 1992, in
Raritan Township, N.J. A veteran of
the European theater during World
War II, he received his undergradu-
ate degree from Wooster College in
Ohio. He was a member of the
board of directors of the Central
Jersey Bank and Trust Co., and
served as director of the Fairview
Cemetery Association. He was a
member of the Westfield Rotary
Club and YMCA and was involved
in juvenile delinquency counseling
in Westfield.

Donald §. LaTourette ’54L,
former owner of the LaTourette
‘Title Co. in Chester, N.H., died
Feb. 3, 1993, in Manchester, N.H. A
World War II veteran, he received
his undergraduate degree from
Harvard University before entering
W&L in 1951. While at W&L, he
was a member of Phi Delta Phi legal
fraternity, the executive committee,
and the board of governors of the
Student Bar Association. He also
served as editor of the Law Review
and was a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa. Before owning
LaTourette Title Co., he was an
attorney in the law firm of Hamblett
and Kerrigan Professional
Association in Nashua, N.H.

La Tourette served on the W&L
Law Council from 1980-84 and was
an emeritus member from 1984-88.

Joe W. Chamberlain °55
died Dec. 6, 1991, in Hot Springs,
Ark.

Ronald “Chet” Covington °72,
Rockbridge County High School
teacher, died May 16, 1993, in
Staunton, Va. A philosophy major at
W&L, he taught at the Vo Tech
Center and Natural Bridge High
School before joining RCHS.
Covington also worked in the pre-
employment training programs of
the Dana Corp. and Automotive
Industries.

Michael D. Jarboe ’75,
former owner of Assisi Landscaping,
died April 15, 1993, in Arlington, Va.

While at W&L, he was an English
major and member of Sazeracs. He
worked in management positions at
the Four Seasons and Mayflower
hotels in Washington, D.C., and
Stanford Court in San Francisco, He
also served as president of the Arbor
Hotel Co. in Dallas.

Allen 8. Roberts ’85,

former business writer for the
Virginian-Pilot and Ledger Star, died
May 22, 1993. A journalism major at
W&L, Roberts joined the Pi/or in
1988 and left the newspaper last
year for The Journal of Commerce, a
Manhattan-based daily.

Douglas W. Turrell 87,
graduate student, died May 21,
1993, in Jackson ‘Township, N.J.
While at W&L, he was a history
major and a member of Zeta Beta
Tau fraternity, Alpha Phi Omega
service fraternity, and the cross
country team. He was a salesman at
Courtesy Motors in Buena Vista !
from 1989 to 1992 before moving to
Short Hills, N.J., to pursue his
teaching certificate and master’s in
history at Monmouth College.

Friends

May Davidson Adams,

retired schoolteacher and widow of
Lewis Whitaker Adams, former
dean of the School of Commerce
and Administration, died May 18,
1993, in Lexington. She was 88. A
graduate of Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College, Mrs. Adams was
a teacher at Lexington High School
and served on the Lexington school
board. A member of the Lexington
High School class of 1921, she was
the oldest LHS graduate to attend
the school’s multi-class reunion in
June 1991 and grand marshal of the
alumni parade. The family suggests
that memorial donations be made to
the Lewis Whitaker Adams Profes-
sorship in Commerce at Washington
and Lee. (Dr. Adams died in 1971.)

W. Howard Eanes,

former W&L journalism instructor,
died April 23, 1993, in Bristol, Va.
He was 64. Eanes was a visiting lec-
turer in journalism at W&L from
1967 to 1969 and was superinten-
dent of the Journalism Laboratory
Press from 1969 to 1970. He
returned to W&L in the 1973-74
school year. Eanes began his career
as a reporter for the Petersburg (Va.)
Progress-Index, and \ater worked for
the Richmond-Times Dispatch, the
Lynchburg News, and the Newport
News Daily Press. He held various
editorial positions with The Roanoke —
Times before becoming editor of the
Augusta (Ga.) Chronicle in 1974. In
1984, he became executive editor of
the Chronicle and The Augusta Herald.

 

yet

of spe

Paar
Preaek
often
Tone b>
one fp
tes

unive
anit
xe lt es
Tasce
atial
suppl
TO

mice

reno

eet
aon =
mth
intel
atte
ase ,
rewad
any ¢

of a

ae

as

ein
7
anita
acon)

Tort
rience
one’s
wat
Telice
g and
aes

ra elenn)

”

Leyburn
aap
wy
aT
Toes

LTA

 

‘The Washington and Lee University Non-Profit Org.
U.S. Postage

ALUMNI MAGAZINE SS
Permit = 161

Lexington, Virginia 24450 Lynchburg, VA

 

® Le gs y

