    

FALL 1992.

| ps0

ERAS

"Thds vs fete untocrse,
TOLia PCT Lex
Z- ka

Rtir.

 

 

 

 

FROM THE ALUMNI PRESIDENT

 

 

 

DearAlumni:

Rather than attempt a
more esoteric letter, I have de-
cided to provide you with my
views on some of the questions
I am asked most frequently by
fellow alumni. This list is far
from complete, but I hope that
my observations will be helpful.

Admissions: Itis difficult to imagine how popular
W&L has become on a national scale. ‘Today, it
annually receives a record number of applications
from the best and brightest high school students. As
a result, many smart, qualified students are not ac-
cepted to W&L. It leaves some hard-working Alumni
Admissions volunteers wondering why a good student
from their city has been denied admission. Their
consternation is understandable, but I am confident
that the Admissions Office performs their impossible
job very well. And the fact is that sons and daughters
of alumni do get preference. Since 1987, the percent-
age of alumni children admitted has been at least 25
points higher than for the rest of the applicant pool.

‘The Alumni Board has regular contact with stu-
dents during our meetings and less formal observa-
tions and interaction at social functions. ‘There is no
evidence that Washington and Lee students are any
less well-rounded than ever. ‘The statistics concerning
team captains, student government officers, yearbook
editors, and the like are just as impressive as the SAT
scores. The students these days are impressive, bright-
eyed, articulate, and well-rounded.

Facultychanges: Itis daunting toconsider how
one could ever replace professors like Coulling,
Buchanan, Mollenhoff, Cook, Colvin, Shillington,
Jenks, and Stephenson. Those responsible for filling
these giant holes are acutely aware of the importance
of this task. Happily, we are attracting well-qualified
applicants. Also, the student body Executive Com-
mittee has begun a new, stronger Honor System
orientation program for new faculty. “The administra-
tion is doing everything possible to attract gifted
teachers and scholars who willadd strength tostrength.

Is W&L the same? Somehow, a rumor got
started that W&L was moving away from its traditions
through fundamental changes in admissions, faculty
hiring, and other areas so as to be “politically correct.”
The Alumni Board is very sensitive to these issues, and we

 

believe that the overwhelming majority of the changes
in the last decade have been entirely positive. W&L
is smoothly navigating the challenging waters of the
current times while preserving the essential character
of our school.

Fraternities. Some have suggested that W&L
no longer supports fraternities. ‘This is strange in view
of the $12-15 million committed to the revitalization of
fraternities. ‘The hard evidence would have justified
anyone anxious to abolish fraternities to do just that, as
has occurred on many other campuses. At W&L, we
are on the verge of the first four-year cycle of students
who (fortunately) will have never seen the houses in
the sad shape they had reached by the late 1980s.
There is every reason to hope that the Fraternity
Renaissance will effect lasting, positive changes and
ensure the survival of a healthy number of fraternities.
Several sororities have also enjoyed instant success.

Athletics: Several years ago, the Alumni Board
expressed the views of many alumnithatsomechanges
were needed in order to strengthen our teams, im-
prove the quality of our competition, and engender
greater alumni support and loyalty. ‘There may be a
better man for this job than our athletic director Mike
Walsh, but I doubt it. I wish you could hear him speak
with conviction about the success of many of our teams
despite heavy odds, and his ongoing efforts to bring
prestige to W&L through a first-rate Division III
program for men and women. I can assure you that the
true student-athlete is thriving in Lexington.

I hope many of you will see the “On the Shoul-
ders of Giants” video when the Capital Campaign
reaches your chapter. In that video, Dean of the
College John Elrod is asked where Washington and
Lee is going. He responds that we are making changes,
but that we are not going any place inconsistent with
where we have been. I share his belief that as we
approach our 250th birthday, W&L is building on our
best traditions, starting some new ones, and enjoying
great popularity among the best young people of this
generation. I hope you will make plans to come to
Lexington to see for yourself. I would be happy to hear
from you directly with any questions or concerns about
W&L or the Alumni Board, of which I am privileged
to serve as president.

Sincerely,
Waller T. Dudley, ’74, ’79L
President, W&L Alumni Association

 

 

 

 

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

0 _
BriAN D. SHAW, Executive Editor

MIKE STACHURA, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

DENISE KUHN, Designer

Parrick HINELY, Photographer
Marruew Fever, Class Notes Editor
BriAn Locur, Sports Editor

Wiiiam Cocke IV, Contributing Editor

Evan ATKINS, Contributing Editor

Published four times a year in April, July,
October, and December by Washington and Lee
Unwversity, Lexington, Virginia 24450. All
communications and POD Forms 3579 should
be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450,(703) 463-8464. Third-
class postage paid at Lynchburg, Va. 24502.
Signed articles reflect the views of their authors
and not necessarily those of the editorial staff or
the University.

1 ype for this magazine was set using equipment
provided through the generosity of Mary Moody
Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

 

ee

Washington and Lee Directory

SWITCHBOARD: (703) 463-8400
PUBLICATIONS OrFice: (703) 463-8956
ALUMNI Orrice: (703) 463-8464
DEVELOPMENT Orrice: (703) 463-8410
News Orrice: (703) 463-8460
SPORTS INFORMATION OrFice: (703) 463-8676
W&L Sports Horuine: (703) 463-8998

 

 

ee

en

 

CONTENTS

VOLUME 67, NUMBER 3, FALL 1992

FEATURES

10

14

16

GAZETTE

22
24
30
32
33

Letters

Campaign Update
Two grand gifts from the Martin estate and Nancy and Tom Shepherd will benefit the University and
the School of Law; the campaign nears $65 million.

Lights, Camera, Lexington

For a few days this summer, Lexington got a taste of Hollywood—and that was plenty; but Chris
Albert, 95, spent a whole summer in the movies—and he loved it.

A Golf Course for the Birds

Art and Lex Birney orchestrated the building of a beautiful golf course in Maryland that ts trying to
do as much for the environment as it does for the game of golf.

Remember When: When W&L was in the Army

Fifty years ago, the Colonnade and Front Lawn were bustling with activity, thanks to the Army School
for Personnel Services.

Women’s Rites: Sororities Make Themselves a Home

Sororities have established a solid foundation as an important extracurricular option for WEL
women; how did they do it and where are they going?

CLASS NOTES

Class Notes
Marriages
Births

In Memoriam

OpeningConvocation 37
Hall of Fame 52
A Visitwith Leyburn 52
Law News 54

Alumni News

On the cover:
Physics and engineering professors Thomas Williams (near) and Robert Akins
discuss the options in their majors with some interested freshmen during
Orientation Week. (See stories in Gazette.)

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

A. Stevens Miles Jr., '51, Rector
John D. Wilson, President

COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY
BoAaRD

John Cleghorn, "84; David M. Clinger, °55; Robert S.
Keefe, '68; David Lotts, '74; Andrew H. McCutcheon, "48;
Robert Mottley, "64; Elizabeth Obenshain; Frank A.
Parsons, '54; Matthew W. Paxton, '49; Cecily Tynan, °91;
Sarah K. Wiant, '78L

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Officers

Waller T. Dudley, °74, °79L

President (Alexandria, Va.)

Charles T. McCord III, °63

Vice President (Houston, Texas)

James D. Farrar Jr., °74

Secretary and Director of Alumni Program
(Lexington, Va.)

Robert W. H. Mish III, °76,

Assistant Secretary (Lexington, Va.)

Directors

Benjamin L. Bailey, ’75 (Charleston, W.Va.)

R.K. Barton ILI, '63 (Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.)
T. Talbot Bond, °51 (Baltimore, Md.)

E. Neal Cory II, °77 (Louisville, Ky.)

William M. Bowen, '61 (Hilton Head Island, S.C.)
J. Michael Jenkins III, '64 (Montgomery, Ala.)
Robert S. Keefe, "68 (New Yort, N.Y.)

Michael G. Morgan, ‘68 (Stamford, Conn.)
Mason T. New, 62 (Richmond, Va.)

Henry (Skip) Nottberg III, °71 (Kansas City, Mo.)
William J. Russell Jr., 57 (Maker, Pa.)

Alexa A. Salzman, ’89 (San Francsco, Calif.)

J. Frank Surface Jr., '60 (Jacksonville, Fla.)

J. E. Jet) Taylor Il, '84 (San Diego, Calif.)
Michael T. Thornton, °70, °78L (Adanta, Ga.)

H. William Walker Jr., "68, °71L (Miami, Fla.)
Donald W. Weir Jr., 72 (Shreveport, La.)

Robert K. Wittpenn, '82 (West Caldwell, NJ.)

Law SCHOOL ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

Officers

Walter D. Kelley Jr., °77, 81L
President (Norfolk, Va.)
Charles B. Tomm, '68, °75L
Vice President (Flat Rock, N.C.)

Law Council

Robert L. Banse, '53L (Rahway, NJ.)

Charles M. Berger, ‘68L (Charlotte, N.C.)

Alfred J.T. Byrne, 65, ’68L (Washington, D.C.)
Robert M. Couch, ’78, °82L (Birmingham, Ala.)
William R. Goodell, *80L (Atdanta, Ga.)

Leonard C. Greenebaum, °56, '58L (Washington, D.C.)
Theodore D. Grosser, °77L (Cincinnati, Ohio)
Robin P. Hartmann, '71L (Dallas, Texas)

Milton T. Herndon, *56L (Charleston, W.Va.)
James W. Jennings Jr., °72L (Roanoke, Va.)

Thomas N. McJunkin, '70, '74L (Charleston, W.Va.)
Thomas M. Millhiser, '81L (Richmond, Va.)

Dana C. Petersen, '82L (Baltimore, Md.)

W. Bryce Rea Jr., °41L (Washington, D.C.)

David D. Redmond, °66, °69L (Richmond, Va.)
James C. Treadway Jr., °67L (New York, N.Y.)

S. Maynard Turk, "52L (Wi/mington, Del.)
Elizabeth Turley, ‘80L (Chicago, 1/1.)

Patricia A. Van Allan, '80L (Houston, Texas)
Thomas K. Wotring, '75L (Washington, D.C.)

 

 

2 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

CET Tea

 

Drinking responsibly

EDITOR:

I write in response to Candus
Zambone’s letter (WEL, Spring 1992). I
was deeply offended by her assumption
that the two young women were under
age and that the bourbon or cooler were
theirs. No one on the cover looked as if
they were drinking irresponsibly. My
friend and I are 22, and the cooler and
bottle were not ours.

If Ms. Zambone had looked closer at
the cover, she would find several adults
drinking and mingling with the students.
There is no evidence of wild partying, as
she implied from her statement in ques-
tioning “whether any college student is
capable of drinking responsibly.” If Ms.
Zambone has a problem with alcohol
drinking among college students, she
should think about those who are often
the models—some of the adults.

Jill Balfour
Mary Baldwin, ’92
Richmond, Va.
+
Absurd letters
EDITOR:

If you’re going to include absurd let-
ters in the magazine, here’s another one
for you of similar ilk.

Bob Carrere, ’72, commented on the
fact that the alumni at a recent reunion
remembered those who died in World
War II and Vietnam, and he urged that
such tributes be extended to those who
“died of AIDS, for the tragedy of wasted
lives and of talented men . . .who will
never again write or turn a phrase that can
capture our imagination, nor heal someone
ill or save a life, nor create a service, a work of
art, a business.”(W&L Summer 1992)

Please, let us not be overly and un-
fairly selective, for there is a somewhat
larger group to whom the same tributes
should be extended for the tragedy of
wasted lives and of talented men... who
will never again write or turn a phrase that
can capture our imagination, nor heal
someone ill or save a life, nor create a
service, a work of art, a business.

‘These men, through no fault of their
own, died of pneumonia, automobile
wreck, heart attack, ulcers, cancer, tu-
berculosis, drowning, sheer embarass-
ment, electric shock, pestilence, run over
by a train, murder, airplane accident,
stabbing, hanging, poisoning, bombing,
earthquake, lightning, fire, ad infinitum.

Yes, let’s even imagine the Lee
Chapel bell ringing out for each W&L
man, as enumerated, who has left us, and
I hope that the waning of each tone evokes
our grief at the unbearable loss already in
our midst.

John C. White, ’40L
Naples, Fla.

+
Jerry’s Kids

EDITOR:

I was delighted to see your coverage
(W@L, Summer ’92) of our 6th annual
SAMS Rock-Alike contest. Your covet-
age of this year’s national winners, ourown
Sig Ep pledges (a.k.a., “Stickboy and the
Catwalkers”) at the Daytona Beach na-
tional finals was outstanding. Howevet,

 

recognition is also due our W&L SAMS
committee members, who worked long
and hard during the year in organizing the
1992 event. Graduated seniors Clayton
Kennington, Michael Patrick, Morgan
Warner, and Karen Halsell, along with
many other volunteers were the driving
force in making the "92 event our most
successful yet. This year’s event, which
was held at the Student Activities Pavil-
ion, attracted 19 acts, 728 spectators, and
raised $3,215. In six years, our committee
has raised over $10,000 in the fight against
multiple sclerosis.

Ashley Myler, 93, and her commit-
tee are well underway with plans for the
next Rock-Alike, which will be held Jan. 29,
1993. Since we now have acts represent-
ing the faculty and staff, it is time for
alumni participation, as well. (I recall a
couple of guys from the Class of ’78 doing
a bad “Sam & Dave” routine at the KA
house on numerous occasions!) Mark your
calendars and come back to Lexington
and join us in our continuing effort to
combat this dreaded disease.

Jerry Darrell
SAMS Advisor
Lexington, Va.

NOTE: Jn the article on Stickboy and the
Catwalkers, the acronym SAMS was misidenti-
fied. SAMS stands for Students Against Multiple

Sclerosis.

+

About ‘Sorority’

EDITOR:

l read Rebecca Brandt’s letter(W&L,
Summer ’92) with puzzlement. I thought
“women’s fraternities” (from the Latin
frater, “brother” ) were “sororities” (from
the Latin soror, “sister”), and I know “fe-
male alumni” are alumnae. I think I sniff
the problem.

Dr. Donald D. Hook, ’50
Farmington, Conn.

L E-T. FES

EDITOR’S NOTE: An explanation, from
the book, Sixty Yearsin Kappa Alpha Theta,
pp. 3-4: “Kappa Alpha Theta and all similar
organizations for college women were known
as women’s fraternities until 1882. The word
fraternity is derived from fraternitas, an ab-
stract feminine Latin noun, meaning brother-
hood, applying to both men and women. The
word “sorority” was coined by Frank Smalley,
professor of Latin at Syracuse University. The
day after the papers had announced the estab-
lishment of Gamma Phi Beta’s second chapter,
Professor Smalley remarked toa Gamma Phi,
‘T presume that you young women feel very
elated over being members of a sorority.’ The
fitness of the term appealed, and from that time
Gamma Phi Beta has been officially known as
a sorority. This new word is not in any
dictionary published before 1911. It is offt-
cially used today only by five of the national
Panhellenic group...the other 15 [including the
four at W&L] are all fraternities.”

O, Calendar

EDITOR:

Dear Alma Mater I wish to say

I received your calendar today,
And as the case in issues prior
‘The photographs can but inspire.

But if I may at this point rise
Constructively to criticize

I'll ask you to behold the part

‘That lies beneath the breathless art.

Small print and faint in daily squares
Do much to foster straining stares.
Lest we forget that o/d grads fade,
Please ink it up a darker shade.

And one more thought, if you will bear,
The pictures that are featured there
Bring memories we can embrace,

But please use captions just in case.

Paul R.S. Yates, ’48
Palm Harbor, Fla.

EDITOR’S NOTE:

The lighter shade of ink we use

Frees squares for appointments that you choose;
Captions would be helpful, though I confess,
we thought it better that you guess.

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee welcomes letters from its readers.
All letters should be typed and include the author’s name, address, and daytime
telephone number. All letters will be subject to editing for length, content, and style.
Writers are strongly encouraged to limit their letters to two pages in length. The editor
reserves the right to determine which letters recetved will be published.

Correspondence should be sent to

UNIVERSITY EDITOR
Publications Office
Hill House
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 3

 

 

 

SHEPHERDS ENDOW
MINort try LAW SCHOLARSHIP

ometimes a combination of events—some good,
some bad—can come together and produce a kind of
epiphany in a person, and suddenly a chance to do good
presents itself in an irresistable way.

“The purpose of this scholarship is to encourage
minority, and particularly black, graduates to become
more involved in the American criminal justice system,”

said Shepherd, who is the manag-

 

Something like that happened
to ‘Thomas Shepherd, °52, during
Reunion Weekend last spring. And
the beneficiary of Shepherd’s expe-
rience is Washington and Lee’s
School of Law.

As Shepherd and his classmates
gathered for their 40th anniversary
reunion last May, the Los Angeles
riots were still a recent and vivid
memory. He had just finished read-
ing a Wa// Street Journa/arucle on the
shortage of lawyers in the criminal
justice system. It was with those twin
thoughts rumblingaround in his head,

 

 

ing director of the ‘Thomas H. Lee
Co. of Boston. “And I believe that
W&L, as a fundamentally
humane campus, is a good place
for this sort of gift.”

‘Third-year law student
Kimble Reynolds of Martinsville,
Va., has been named the first re-
cipient of the Shepherd Scholar-
ship. For his Shepherd Fellow-
ship, Reynolds is working with
W&L professor Roger Groot,
director of the Alderson Legal
Assistance Program, which serves
a women’s prison in West Virginia.

 

 

coupled with his wife’s involvement
in prison ministry as the rector of
‘Trinity Chapel in Shirley, Mass., that ‘om listened to the
Reunion Weekend law school report of Randall Bezanson,
dean of the W&L School of Law. He heard about the
strength of his alma mater’s law school and its promise for
the future. And suddenly that knowledge came face-to-face
with his thoughts on current problems. Almost instantly,
Shepherd saw an opportunity to work at solving those
problems, and that opportunity was housed right here at
Washington and Lee. He was inspired to create an endowed
scholarship that would work toward meeting the problems
of race and the criminal justice system. ‘The result is the
‘Thomas R. and Nancy H. Shepherd Endowment Fund, an
annual scholarship that seeks to bring together minority law
students and the study of criminal justice.

‘The endowment fund, established by the Shep-
herds’ gift of $350,000, will provide a scholarship and
annual stipend to a minority student at the W&L School
of Law who agrees to devote at least two years following
graduation to work in the criminal justice system. ‘The
fellowship will come in the form of a stipend for the
Shepherd Scholar to work with one or more faculty
members on their teaching and scholarly work, with a
preference for work related to the criminal justice system.

“We are deeply grateful to
‘Tom and Nancy Shepherd for
their remarkable generosity to the law school and for their
important Commitment to increasing the participation of
black and minority lawyers in our criminal justice sys-
tem,” Bezanson said.

—Wiillam Cocke, ’82

 

 

 

ah Campaign Update

OF GIANTS

“On the Shoulders of Giants,” the campaign 10F
Washington and Lee, heads into the most active year of

:

the campaign with more than half of its $127 million goal

accounted for, according to Lex O. McMillan, executive director of development
As the school year began, the campaign total was approaching $65
million. Nineteen area campaigns are scheduled for the 1992-93 academic yea
“This year is going to be of critical importance to the success of oUF
campaign,” McMillan said. “The many area campaigns that will kick off thisye™

will put the public phase of the campaign in full swing.”

 

 

 

 

4 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

ashington and Lee has long benefited
from the service and devotion of many married couples,
not the least of which is the late James Bland Martin,
°31L, and his late wife, Christine.

MARTIN BEQUEST
SURPASSES $1 MILLION

money be used to create a fund in honor of their friends
and two of the University’s most special servants, Frank
and Louise Gilliam.

In a 1979 W&L article refer-

 

Their devotion over the years re-
sulted in many gifts to the Univer-
sity, and with the recent settling of
their estate, W&L has received a
tremendous gift.

‘The University has been notified
by the Martin estate that James
Martin’s provision for W&L in his
will exceeds $1 million. Martin died
Jan. 9 at his home in Gloucester, Va.

In addition to this gift, a chari-
table remainder unitrust, established
in 1979 by James Martin and his wife,
whodied in 1983, has now reverted to
the University. It is valued at $1.5

 

 

ring to the former dean of students
and his wife, ‘Teen Martin remem-
bered, “Over the years, we main-
tained a loving relationship, and it
was through our frequent visits to
Lexington as their guests that I
became so gung-ho about Wash-
ington and Lee. We enjoyed and
treasured the exuberance of being
with very special, very dear friends.”
Jimmie Martin, as he was known
to all, retired from active law
practice in 1977. He had been the
founding partner of the firm
Martin, Hicks & Ingles of Glou-
cester and was a member of the

 

 

million. “Teen,” as she was known,
served as a member of the W&L
Board of Trustees from 1978-81.
‘The Martins chose to keep the designation of their
gifts unspecified. They are to be used “for whatever
purpose the governing body of the University may, in its
discretion, direct.” ‘Their only stipulation was that the

 

 

Some of the area campaigns with large goals scheduled for the fall include
Baltimore, Birmingham, Atlanta, and New York, while the winter and spring will

feature kickoff events in Memphis, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Tampa.

The main goal of the five-year campaign is to improve the University’s
endowment, and the dollar goal for endowment alone is $78 million. Among top
25 small, liberal arts colleges, W&L ranks near the bottom in endowment per
student. McMillan points out that can change with a successful campaign.
“We need to have the most successful fundraising year in the history of
Washington and Lee,” he said. “And I| think we will.”
I ae

 

 

 

 

Virginia House of Delegates from
1938-42.

‘Teen Martin, as past president of The Garden Club
of Virginia, was author-editor of Fo//ow the Green Arrow,
the 50-year history of the club published in 1970. During
her active years with The Garden Club of Virginia, she
was instrumental in the landscaping of Lee Chapel and
the creation of the brick entrance to the chapel, all of
which was done as a special project honoring the United
States Bicentennial.

Both were honored for their service to W&L when
they received the Lynchburg Citation in 1982. ‘The cita-
tion is generally regarded as the most important honor a
chapter can confer.

‘The Martins’ citation read: “In grateful acknowledge-
ment of the depth and enduring quality of their commit-
ment to the achievement of the University’s objectives.”

“There have been few couples who have shared an
ambition and devotion for Washington and Lee to equal
‘Teen and Jimmie Martin’s,” said Farris Hotchkiss, ’58,
W&L vice president for university relations. “Certainly,
their gifts will keep that ambition alive, as it will also add
to the memory of Louise and Frank Gilliam on the
Washington and Lee campus.”

—Wilham Cocke, ’82

 

 

WA&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 5

Lights,

Camera, Lexington

 

THE DAY HOLLYWOOD CAME TO LEXINGTON

 

rguably, it doesn’t take
much to shut down Lexington in the
summer. Get a big enough line at Uni-
versity Cleaners, a large crowd at Sweet
Things, or a traffic light that isn’t coop-
erating, and, well, not much else hap-
pens. But if you really want to shut
things down, just bring a major motion
picture to town.

For a couple of days in June, that’s
just in fact what happened. The trucks
rolled in with cast and crew. The Main
Street-Jefferson Street-Washington
Street triangle was repaved with dirt.
Horses, buggies, and camera dollies
were everywhere.

With two-time Academy Award-
winner Jodie Foster and ultra-hunk
Richard Gere playing the lead roles,
everybody who was anybody was down-
town watching Hollywood make itself
at home in Lexington.

What everybody was watching was
the making of Sommersby, a post-Civil
War romance that looked authentic
right down to the dirt on Main Street.
Sommersby, the tentative title of the
film, drew rave reviews from the locals
who eyed Foster and ogled Gere. It
provided for some pretty exciting times
in Lexington’s usually lazy days of
summer. It also provided an opportu-
nity fora W&L student to experience
the film industry first-hand (see accom-
panying story).

It all got started a couple of weeks
before the actual shooting of the scenes
took place. Lexington would be the

6 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

By Mike Stachura, ’86

site of one large street scene as well as a
climactic public hanging scene that, of
course, was shot in secret, out of public
view. Set design and construction crews
got to work early, building a gallows in
the parking lot near Main Street Mall
and adding fake store fronts to build-
ings on Main and Washington. ‘Then,
on the eve of the big street scene, all of
the movie trucks moved into town with
the big trailers for the stars and the rest
of the cast and crew. The streets were
completely covered in dirt, and for
awhile that next afternoon, it looked
like downtown Lexington would never
be the same. But just as quickly as they

 

 

 

had come, they were gone with the
streets cleaned overnight.

‘The street scene, which involved
a parade of horses and buggies, was open
to the public, and they came in droves.
Lexington looked like a Western-style
theme park, what with all the propsand
all the onlookers, but the big hulla-
balloo will end up being no more than |
30 seconds or so in the final version of
the film.

The reviews of Lexington from
cast and crew were positive, especially
those of location manager Scot Elias,
who said, “We’re really happy with
what we got in Lexington.”

 

Washington Street could barely be recognized when the cameras started to roll. (Peter Cronin photo)

 

A few fortunate townspeople were
even happier with what didn’t end up
on film: the after-hours public appear-
ances of the two stars of the film. Both
Foster and Gere made appearances down-
town, sampling the Lexington nightlife.
Foster stopped in at The Palms one
night, while Gere made the biggest im-
pression on Lexingtonians by playing
and singing with a jazz band at the
Willson-Walker House after midnight.
The News-Gazette described some of
Gere’s performance this way:

“... It’s closer to 1 a.m., and
Richard Gere is playing an electric
guitar to no one, having been un-
plugged several minutes before by
someone in the room at the Willson-
Walker House. He’s already been
kicked off the drums once, so Gere
moves across the stage and begins
singing into a dead microphone, only
someone makes the mistake of telling
him that it doesn’t work and suddenly
everyone is having to try to plug him
back in so he can sing.”

It was more excitement than Lex-
ington had seen in quite awhile, and
more excitement than the town fathers
hope to see in just as long. The News-
Gazette put the strain of movie-making
on Lexington in perfect small-town per-
spective when it proclaimed in a banner
headline after the movie came to town:
“Whew! It’s Back To Normal Now.”

      

*

“7,

4

Main Street (Thomas Bradshaw photo) was made suitable for horses, buggies ,

cameras, and movie stars Gere and Foster (Peter Cronin photos).

A Summer

Under the Stars

By Chris Albert, ’95

hile taking a skiing P.E.
class during winter term at The Home-
stead, I heard that the production office
for an upcoming Richard Gere/Jodie
Foster movie was going to be based
there. For someone interested in film,
I thought that this was an ideal oppor-
tunity, so after many phone calls to the
production office, I was able to set up
an internship for spring term. ‘This in-
ternship was very unique, not only
because it included working with such
celebrities, but also because I was only
a freshman and had set this up on my
own. It turned out to be everything I
hoped it would be and more.

I took my final exams for winter
term early, gave up my spring break, and

began work on the
movie in April. The
actual movie set was
located in Hidden
Valley, Bath County,
Va. I really didn’t
know what to expect,
but what I ended up
with was, as my boss
later told me, more
valuable and more edu-
cational than three
years at film school.
To actually see a film
being made was prob-
ably the most intrigu-
ing and educational
experience in my life.
My official title on the
movie set was “location in-
tern.” I worked for two of
the nicest people I have ever
met: Scott Elias, the location
manager, and Anna Craven,
the assistant location manager.
Both Scott and Anna were
taking a leave of absence
from the hit TV show, “In
the Heat of the Night.”

As the location intern, |
had numerous responsibilities,
but before I get into them, it
is important to mention the
unique location used for this
movie. Set as a post-Civil
War love story, the location
was very crucial to the director, Jon
Amiel. He wanted a site that was com-
pletely surrounded by mountains and
completely shut off from the outside
world. Hidden Valley, located in the
George Washington National Forest,
proved to be that place.

After several months of construc
tion, Hidden Valley was transformed
into a 19th-century town, complete
with a barber shop, a bank, a general
store, a blacksmith shop, a church, and
an animal corral. The only thing that
existed in Hidden Valley before we
arrived was the 18th-century Warwick-
ton Mansion. Down the drive from the
mansion is the Jackson River, and on
the other side of the river is where we

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

 

 

re

;

-
ma Tes
_ ke
va

 

 

> fe | , ou ,
Makeup artists perfect the post-Civil War looks of the movie inside the Sigma Nu fraternity house on Henry Street. The Sigma Nu house was one of two fraternity houses in Red Square used during
the filming of Sommersby in Lexington in June. (Cronin photo)

 

constructed our town. It is hard to des- of the site, making sure no holes were field that were used in the filming,
cribe the beautiful atmosphere created dug in the ground deeper than the arranging security and keeping them
by the town, but it certainly looked real, prescribed eight inches due to the happy (like supplying them with extra
and that says more than anything. In requirements of being a

all, there were 10 different structures protected historic land-

built. ‘The set was truly amazing. mark, maintaining or pre-

paring areas for the extras
(which at times numbered
as many as 60), setting up
heaters when it was cold

 

uring my internship, I (which seemed to be most
spent the majority of my time on the of the time, especially
set at Hidden Valley with Anna, who during the night shoots),
was basically the on-site location mana- protecting areas of the

ger. Our job con-
sisted of a variety
of tasks, in- 7
cluding keeping
in contact with

 

the couple who
lived in the War-
wickton Man-

 

 

sion and commu-
nicating with the
Forest Service.
We also were
responsible for
keeping the
whole area clean,

 

 

 

— the One of the 10 buildings (above left) constructed on the set at Hidden Valley (Bradshaw photo). At right, on the set for the shoot in Lexington are Chris Albert, center,
historical aspects — with location manager Scott Elias and assistant location manager Anna Craven. (Cronin photo)

8 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

batteries for their radios), and watching
equipment and the set when the com-
pany broke for lunch. Basically, at least
one of us had to be on set at all times in
case a locations problem arose, but
mostly just to keep an eye on the area
in which we were filming. I partici-

pated in id
given a fair amount of responsibility.

sor

oeations work, however,
was not the only aspect of moviemaking
that L observed. | also frequently had
‘the opportunity to help the production
assistants with their job of

all of these activities, and I was -

_ Lexington. For

 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

About 70
percent of the
filming took place
at the set in
Hidden Valley,
but there were
several other
locations used,
one of particular
interest being
downtown

two days in early
June, Lexington
was transformed
into a town right
out of the history

 

locking up the area while
film and sound were rolling
so there were no stray cars
or unwanted background
noise during the filming of a
scene. This was of particu-
lar importance in a period
piece such as this movie.
You don’t want any 20th-
century activity in a post-
Civil War love story. In
addition to helping the pro-
duction assistants, I helped
the special effects depart-
ment run smoke in the town,
and I participated in the
process of making rain. I
also helped out various
other departments with
little jobs and running
errands, and I think it got so
that most everyone on the set
knew who I was.

It is also important to note that
there is a lot of “dead time” on a movie
set, and | took advantage of this time to
watch and learn while the filming was
taking place. I learned about the dif-
ferent types of camera shots used, and I
was able to see first-hand the hours of
tedious work which go into the filming
of what turns out to be a 30-second
scene in the final cut of the movie. The
different camera angles used in a parti-
cular scene often result in the large
amount of time it takes to film it.

   

Views of the 19th-century town constructed at Hidden Valley. Included are the
main street with the church in the background, the blacksmith shop, and the bank.
(Above photo by Chris Albert; photos at right by Bradshaw)

books. The filming in Lexington was a
lot of fun, and the whole crew had a
really good time. Richard Gere even sat
in with a jazz band at the Willson-
Walker House. ‘The crew, including
Jodie Foster, also ate lunch in Evans
Dining Hall.

My internship ended up lasting
about two-and-a-half months, and even
though the days were long and the
work was hard, it was well worth it.
When watching the filming process,
you see immediately that acting is not
all glamor and fame. It requires a

ei

EAVMAMMERR GREET EGE

ey P

-
= Mein

 

 

tremendous amount of patience and
talent. I learned a great deal about the
movie business during my internship,
and I hope to be able to use this
knowledge to increase interest at W&L
in film. I know Lexington’s residents
and all those familiar with the city will
be excited to see the film when it hits
the theaters either around Christmas or
early spring.

For me, I know this experience
will be something I treasure for years to
come. I was proud to represent W&L
in Hollywood’s visit to Virginia.

WA&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

 

 

A Golf Course tor |
the Birds i]

BIRNEYS PLEASE GOLFERS AND ENVIRONMENTALISTS

By Mike Stachura, ’86

 

 

 

UST PAST THE INTERSECTION OF
U.S. ROUTES 50 AND 301, NEAR THE
HAMLET OF QUEENSTOWN ON MARY-
LAND’S IDYLLIC EASTERN SHORE,
THERE IS A PLACE THAT CLEARLY
HAS BEEN TOUCHED BY GOD AND

MOTHER NATURE.

 

 

 

Above, one of Queenstown’s 12 bridges; below, the diagram for Harbor
‘No. 4 (Photos by Tom Horan).

7)

= i; » PFE A
ba ia | z

- t/
4
;

il

_—

Gently jutting out into the Chesapeake
Bay, the 400-acre plot is bordered by the
Chester River and Queenstown Creek.
Looking across the shoreline on a clear
day you can see Baltimore far to the
north while in front of you the sunshine
dances on the water. But even more
impressive are the views inward. Here,
the wetland habitat of a muskrat, so at
home he waddles right up to you,
pauses, and then goes on his way.
There, a couple of fawns munching on
some leaves, staring at you as if to invite
you to join them at their table. Above
you, a trio of birds—a bluebird, an
oriole, and a wood duck—scatter in dif-
ferent directions in search of mid-day
snacks. And all around you, wildflowers

 

10 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

and trees of seemingly infinite variety,
providing majesty and color more vivid
than a painted backdrop.

A national park? No.

An untouched natural wonderland?
Wonderland yes, untouched no.

A wildlife reserve? In a way.

Clearly, this land could be any of
those things. And yet for its dominant
physical beauty and its attention to main-
taining this natural environment, there
were many who would have rather seen
this piece of land not exist as it does
today. Why? Because this 400-acre
piece of ground is home to a golf course.

Arthur A. Birney, ’50, ’52L, and his
sons, Lex, ’78, and Charlie, a 1984 Roa-
noke College graduate, are the develop-
ers of the land. They couldn’t
understand the opposition to

may not be the same since your eyes
and ears may wander to focus instead
on the sights and sounds of geese,
swans, and ducks winging their way to
destinations unknown. But even if you
could block out all the distractions at
Queenstown and play a focused round
of golf, you may not want to. ‘To ignore
the beauty at hand would be a sin.”
Lex Birney states things a little
more simply, with the voice of experi-
ence of one who knows every nook and
cranny of the Queenstown layout, as
well as every demanding shot required
by the stern test of all 27 holes: “It’s
really much more fun when you come
out here without your clubs.” For all
those good words, it’s hard to believe that

Terra Cotta, the Birneys’ real estate
investment firm. When the Birneys
began reevaluating the use of the land
for agricultural purposes in the early
1980s, development ideas centered on
a hotel and marina project “with a
pitch-and-putt course as a sort of visual
amenity.” Avid sailers (Art has written
two books on sailing, and father and
son have sailed many times in the
Annapolis to Bermuda race), the two
hit on the idea for a golf course after
getting stranded on a side trip from
Bermuda to the Azores. ‘They found
themselves on a golf course, idling an
afternoon away.

“We just stared at each other on
the tee and said, “This is what we ought

to do with the farm,’ ” Lex
remembered.

 

their plan, opposition that
resulted in some 43 public
hearings and took nearly
seven years to wade through.
Anybody who has been to
the Birneys’ Queenstown
Harbor Golf Links would be
hardpressed to understand it,
too.

What the Birneys have
done, along with noted de-
signer Lindsay Ervin and
course superintendent Bill
Shirk, is build a champion-
ship public 27-hole golf
course that seems quite in
harmony with its beautiful
natural surroundings.

The initial reviews of
Queenstown Harbor have
brought overwhelmingly
high marks tothe facility, and
it is currently being consid-
ered for Go/f Diges?’s listing of
the best new public courses
in the country. A recent article
in Tee Times, the golf maga-
zine of the mid-Atlantic region, explains
the course’s charm:

“It may actually take several trips
to Queenstown before you fully appre-
Clate the course itself because the first
time you play the course can be a dis-
tracting experience. Your concentration

 

“IT’S REALLY MUCH MORE FUN
WHEN YOU COME OUT HERE
WITHOUT YOUR CLUBS.”
Lex Birney

Queenstown Harbor almost never was.
Farmland for nearly three centu-
ries, the land originally belonged to
Henry Coursey, who received the land
from Lord Baltimore in 1658 and
named it “My Lord’s Gift.” It was pur-
chased in 1970 by Washington Brick &

The first two sets of
nine holes were completed
in July 1991, with the third
set added in April 1992, but
the actual course construc-
tion, which took less than a
year, was the easy part.
The legal battles over non-
tidal wetlands and public
hearings started in the early
1980s and lasted right up
until an hour before construc-
tion began in July 1990.

The crux of the issue
eventually centered on the
environmental catchword
“wetlands.” ‘These areas
are home to many pro-
tected wildlife, and as a
result they tend to make
any development in those
areas an unrivaled bureau-
cratic maze. Lex experi-
enced the headaches first-
hand as the point man for
the Queenstown project.

The case for wetlands
preservation is a compelling one. ‘The
fragile ecosystem in nontidal wetlands, in
addition to being a vital habitat for
birds, fish, and animals, also helps in
water pollution control and flood control.
Wetlands preservation has become the
hot topic for conservationists, even to

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 11

the point where the National Audubon
Society has made the battle against
wetlands destruction a “high priority.”
The Birneys never were interested
in destroying the environment, and yet
that was the perception of many who
opposed their development plan, and
the opposition was intense, but not
necessarily fair. Opponents criticized
the original hotel plan , and they were
just as opposed to the golf course plan.
Environmentalists feared the use of
pesticides and fertilizers would adversely
affect the wildlife, no matter what the
project. ‘The developers even were
accused of destroying a valuable archae-
ological site, despite the fact that during
construction of the golf course, Henry
Coursey’s original homesite
was discovered and excavated,

ponds excavated on the site are de-
signed so that any runoff from the
course flows directly into one of the
ponds. Even more groundbreaking was
the installation of 15 groundwater moni-
toring wells on the site. Installed before
work on the course began, the wells are
checked four times each year to study
the types of contaminants that might be
present as a result of work done during
the operation of the golf course. What
the wells have revealed are huge de-
creases in nitrate levels in the ground-
water. No small contributor to these
decreases is the lack of pesticide use at
Queenstown Harbor.

“We haven’t applied any pesticides
this year at all,” Lex said. “There are

The important thing to remember
in all of this is that the Birneys were
under no obligation to preserve the
environment. While their project
undoubtedly ruffled a few feathers—
literally—they seem to have done their
level best to restore some balance to
the environment. And the Birneys
aren’t the only ones pleased with the
environmental focus of their facility,
Ned Gerber, project manager for
Chesapeake Wildlife Heritage, an
organization that works for wildlife
habitat preservation and restoration,
testified in public hearings against the
construction of the Birneys’ golf course.
Now, Gerber says he is happy there is
an open dialogue between the Birneys

and his organization.
“I do think they’re

 

halting construction in the af-
fected areas for four months.

The Birneys knew a golf
course could be a positive, as
well as profitable, use for the
land back when they started.
It took much longer to get
others to see the developers as
anything other than parasitic
invaders. ‘Today, the Birneys
can take a measure of pride in
their pro-environmental ef-
forts.

“There’s a tremendous
amount of misinformation
about golf courses and the
benefits or harms they can do
to the environment,” Lex says.
“Like anything else, if it’s im-
properly managed, it can be
detrimental. But in a properly
designed and properly man-
aged golf course, I think there
can be tremendous benefits
to the environment. So when
we went to design the course,
there were a number of con-
siderations we had.”

One of those consider-
ations was providing for extra,
self-imposed boundaries be-
tween the shoreline and the course.
Runoff is controlled through the course’s
system of ponds and lakes. The 11

 

12 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

“| DO THINK THEY’RE COMMITTED
TO DOING THE BEST JOB THEY CAN.
| THINK THIS GOLF COURSE CAN BE

USED AS A MODEL TO SHOW HOW
THINGS CAN BE DONE.”

Ned Gerber

CHESAPEAKE WILDLIFE HERITAGE

things you can do in terms of plant ma-
terials you can put into the woods to
naturally control pests without putting
down pesticides.”

committed to doing the
best job they can,” he said.
“It takes a long time before
you can say whether it’s a
positive or a negative, but
they have done some things
there that show they’re
concerned about the envi-
ronment. ‘They have done
some things right, but they
have done some things
wrong, too, and they know
about it. I think this golf
course can be used as a
model to show how things
can be done.”

‘The wooden bridges
that skirt around and over
protected wetlands let you
witness this harmonic
convergence of golf and
nature. At times, the ride
from one green to the next
tee is like something out
of a Natureworld theme
park. Indeed, without the
flagsticks and the tee
markers, Queenstown
Harbor could very well bea
natural park, and Lex still
has that in the plans.

“Eventually, we’re hoping to have
enough different areas of interest here
that we can bring in school kids and

 

ps out here at off-peak times and
actually have tours and educate people
about what's out here,” Lex said. “That’s
one of the long-term objectives of the

grou

project.” v
It’s the public nature of the facility

that makes this environmental concern
especially powerful. (“This isn’t some-
thing just preserved for a few rich guys
to come down and play golf,” Lex
explains.) The accessibility of Queens-
own Harbor vividly brings to the public
the environmentalists’ concerns about
saving the bay and preserving wildlife,
Art believes.

“Why would the average guy be con-
cerned about saving the bay?” Art says.
“Well, if he comes down here and ex-
periences what the bay is like and all the
wildlife, one of the things that happens
is that he’s going to feel a little more a
part of it all. He’s going to be impressed.”

Lex: “That’s the unfortunate thing
about nontidal wetlands. ‘They’re so
inaccessible that the average guy can’t
tell you what they are or why they’re
important. I think it was a good selling
point, and a genuinely good point as
well, to be able to have a public facility.”

That facility is now adored by at
least the golfing public. And the
$75,000 a year in tax revenues is wel-
come news to the local area. Now, the
facility that received so much opposi-
tion that it wasn’t built is the hottest
golf course in the region. The way the
Birneys—and others—are looking at it
now, their trials and tribulations over
this golf course were well worth it.

“If you look back on it, I’m kind of
glad that all the opposition was there
and we had to go through all of that
because I think we came out with the
right thing at the right time in the right
place,” Lex says. “We wanted to build
the highest quality golf course available
to the public, and we’re real happy with
what we have done.”

And well they should be. No one
who’s been to Queenstown can come
away unimpressed. That includes the
golfers, the environmentalists, the towns-
People, and especially the ducks,
Beese, swans, deer, and muskrats.

 

 

 

QU BE Nee © ee

A REGAL ‘TEST OF GOLF

Environmentalists and the average guy won’t be
the only ones impressed by Queenstown Harbor Golf
Links. Any golfer who spends any time at all on the

 

links at Queenstown will come away satisfied. Even
the scratch golfer will have plenty of demands placed
on his game by the stern test of the three nines. With four sets of tees, each nine is playable
for all levels of golfers, but from the tips, Queenstown is especially regal.

It might be best to start from the tamer Harbor Nine, which with the River Nine was
opened for play in July 1991. Although boasting of only one par 4 of more than 400 yards, the
Harbor Nine has four water holes, including the beastly tantalizing, 504-yard, par-5 fourth
hole, a dogleg flanked on the right its entire length by a huge pond. (Art and Lex Birney
laugh as they tell you how the local fire department fished more than 5,000 golf balls out of
one corner of the pond four months after the course opened.)

Once you've survived the Harbor Nine, the River Nine and the Woods Nine await you.
These two make for Queenstown Harbor’s premier combo, checking in at over 7,100 yards as
an 18 and carrying a staggering 138 United States Golf Association slope rating. (To put this
in perspective, Pinehurst No. 2, the TPC at Sawgrass, and Harbour Town in Hilton Head
Island, S.C., all have lower slope ratings.) But the Woods and the River provide the course’s
most beautiful views of the Chester River and Chesapeake Bay, almost beautiful enough to
forget how badly you might be playing.

Some of the favorite holes undoubtedly are No. 5-River, which provides the best view of
the bay; No. 9-River, which features two huge carries over wetlands; No. 7-Woods, which
demands three carries over wetlands to a front-bunkered green; and No. 9-River, a mon-
strously long dogleg par 4 that requires a 240-yard drive over wetlands and trees just to make
the dogleg.

Again, the four sets of tees make the course fair and accessible for every level of player,
and that was a primary concern of the Birneys, both sailers at heart who only recently have
taken to golf. Yet, both Art and Lex enjoy the course when playing either the gold or white
tees, leaving the championship blue tees for single-digit handicappers.

Still, they know they have quite the golf course on their property. They are clearly the
proud parents when they mention that Golf Digest has sent scouts to evaluate Queenstown. It
seems likely those special guests will go away impressed as anyone. The Birneys are hopeful.

“We have no idea how we’re going to make out, but the guys that have been here seem
to be very pleased,” Art says. “We'd like to rate in the top 100 new courses, or the top 50.”

Lex finishes his father’s thought: “We'd like to be Number 1.”

 

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

 

 

 

 

Remember When . . .

When W&L Was In the Army

By Evan Atkins

Washington and Lee has gone towar. G.I. khakiand jeeps
have replaced the sports coats and convertibles of former years.
The Dutch Inn is an Army mess hall; the freshmen dormitory is a
barracks. Drill formations and calisthenic classes tread the soil of
Wilson Field where once the Generals’ elevens battled.

Sounds like the opening scene of a novel or movie
set at Washington and Lee, doesn’t it? Actually, that is
the opening paragraph of an article in the October 1943
W@&L Alumni Magazine giving an accurate description of
the campus during World War II.

When Pearl Harbor was attacked in December 1941,
Washington and Lee was enjoying a record enrollment of
over 800 students, many who were celebrating the fact
that Woody Herman had just been booked for Fancy
Dress. But college life began to change quickly as the
U.S. entered the war. One of the first activities to go was
road trips—to conserve gasoline and wear on tires.

Drastic changes came to the campus by the summer
of 42. A summer session—which brought the first

14 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

women students to Washington and Lee—was instituted
to hasten graduation for students. By the fall semester,
football games had been cancelled and publication of The
Ring-tum Phi, Calyx, and Southern Collegian had been sus-
pended. At one point, there were fewer than 100 students
enrolled. ‘The law school was reduced to three faculty
members and five students. Washington and Lee was on
the brink of crisis.

But W&L President Francis Pendleton Gaines found
a way to keep the University operating. With his urging,
and assistance from George C. Marshall, the U.S. Army
signed a contract to move its School for Special and
Morale Services from Fort Meade, Md., to Washington
and Lee. (The school was later called the U.S. Army’s
School for Personnel Services).

Most of the campus was leased to the Army for a
little over three years. Classes at the Army School began
on Dec. 7, 1942, exactly one year after Pearl Harbor.

The mission of the Army School was to maintain “high
physical, mental and moral stamina among the men.”

Headquarters for the Army School were located in
Tucker and Robinson Halls. Even Red Square facilities

 

 

 

ae

were turned over to the Army. Washington Hall remained
the core of what was left of war-time Washington and

Lee. As President Gaines stated to the opening assembly
of students, “The icing is gone, but the cake is still here.”

Some members of W&L’s faculty interacted with the
School of Personnel Services. Professor of history Allen
Moger served as chief of the Tests and Measurement
Department, and Dean Frank Gilliam was commissioned
as a major in the U.S. Army and assigned to the adminis-
trative staff of the School for Special Services at W&L.
Rupert N. Latture served as Dean of Students in the
absence of Dean Gilliam.

Norman F. Lord, who recently retired from Washing-
ton and Lee after 38 years as professor of physical
education, was a student and instructor at the Army
School during the war. He returned to teach at W&L after
serving in the 11th Airborne Division of the Army.

The collegians and the Army personnel also shared
McCormick Library. The library also served as a deposi-
tory for priceless documents and manuscripts that the
government moved from the nation’s capital during the war.
The contents of tons of large wooden boxes were under
armed guard 24 hoursadayat W&L. Although W&L was not
informed exactly what valuables were being stored at
Washington and Lee, rumors

 

tainment was provided for the students and members of the
Lexington community by the School for Personnel Services
in the form of dances, movies, sports, soldier shows, etc.

‘The Army School for Personnel Services left the
campus on June 6, 1946. During its time on the Washing-
ton and Lee campus, 25,000 graduates of the Army program
had filled the halls and dormitories of the University
while W&L students had gone to war. But the Army had
kept Washington and Lee from closing its doors during
wartime. As much as W&L assisted the war effort by
housing the Army School, W&L was helped even more
by being able to keep its doors open during the war years.
As stated in a story—produced by the public relations
office of the Army School—that appeared in the alumni
magazine, “Washington and Lee University will never be
forgotten by those who attended the School for Personnel
Services, and Washington and Lee University will never
forget the Army School.”

‘Toward that memory, in fact, W&L, V.M.I., and the
city of Lexington will hold a 50th anniversary celebration
of the Army School. The 10-day event will be held Nov.
6-15 and will feature movies, guest speakers, exhibits, and
a big-band dance and canteen.

According to Martha Doss, director of the Lexington

Visitors Bureau, “This will

 

purported original copies of the

be a great time for reunions

 

Declaration of Independence,
the Constitution, the Magna
Carta, and other priceless
documents. W&L was one of
five secret repositories where
the government’s treasures
were stored for 30 months.

At its peak enrollment in
early 1944, 1,200 young
officer trainees completed
192 hours of instruction in 28
days at the School for
Personnel Services. Among

 

the Army personnel who
came and went through the
school were future stars of the
Stage and screen Red Skelton,
Melvin Douglas, and Ephraim
Zimbalist Jr., professional ath-

Smith, and Hank Greenberg,

 

 

letes Ben Hogan, Horton MISSION: ALWAYS KEEP THE LEVEL HIGH

for those who spent some
time in Lexington during
World War II, or for those
who were a part of that time
in our country’s history, or
for those who want to show
another generation what life
was like then.”

(Much of the material for this
article was obtained from a paper
written by Taylor Sanders, W&L
historian, “Buckle Down Winsocki:
Washington and Lee During World
War II,” presented April 1992 to
the Rockbridge Historical Society.)

 

 

writer Gore Vidal, and

player for Kay Kaiser. Enter- — June 1943.

 

“Te : : in 1943 (photo
Ishk: ” Page 14: Troops from the Army School marching on front campus in |
shkabibble,” the CrUMPCT provided by Gertrude Neff). Above: A cartoon from the Army School’s paper in

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

 

Women’s

  

 

SORORITIES MAKE THEMSELVES A HOME AT W&L

mms §8=8=— Sy Kimberly Marcott, 93

ORORITY. The image that
comes to mind is one of scatterbrained,
catty girls with perfect hair and strings
of pearls and cashmere sweaters talking
about Daddy’s new BMW or Mommy’s
luncheon with the garden club or how
much fun Boca was last summer. Their
lives seem to be about the right clothes,
the right hair, the right make-up, and
the right crowd. And that means, of
course, getting in the “right” sorority.
The image is of Saturday Night Live’s
“Delta Delta Delta, can I help ya, help
ya, help ya?”

‘The image, at least at Washington
and Lee, is far from reality.

Sororities were established at
Washington and Lee University in
January 1989 under the guiding prin-
ciple of serving as a social and leader-
ship outlet for women students. In
essence, sororities were developed to be
a female counterpart to the fraternities,
and in relatively short order, that is
exactly what they’ve become. With over
360 women pledging sororities at W&L
currently (more than 60 percent of the
women undergraduates), Greek life for
women has become a fixture, providing
women with leadership opportunities, a
social option, and, in many respects, a
place of their own. It has been a rela-
tively steady, careful process in the last
three-and-a-half years, but one that now
puts sororities and the University in a
position to review what’s been accom-
plished and what lies ahead.

16 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

    
 
    
      
 
 
  
  
  
  
    

 

and Mike Stachura, ’86

The decision to expand Greek life
to include women “started before we
ever had women,” says Leroy C.
“Buddy” Atkins, ’68, associate dean of campus. Atkins re-
students for Greek affairs and student membered
activities. When the University made that
the decision to co-educate, a committee

Finally, after several more surveys, a
decision was made in the fall of
1988 to bring sororities onto

was formed to target changes that
would need to be made. In
addition to the obvi-
ous and im-
mediate con-
cerns (build-
ing boxes over
the urinals in
bathrooms and
adding a salad bar
to the dining room),
the committee set up
a structure for the new
women students to use if
they decided that they
wanted sororities.

Early on,that group, the
Women’s Forum, found that
women were divided into three

    
 

the
decision was
the result of some
changing attitudes in that
first class of women.

groups: one group that was con- ‘
cerned that freshmen-year friend-
ships would dissolve as students

 
   
 

moved off campus beginning in their

  

sophomore year; one group that favored
“In that first class of women—

which was probably perceived as being

the most independent—when they ini-

immediate colonization of sororities on
campus; and one group that saw no need
for sororities. Much discussion by com-
mittees was ahead in the ensuing years, tially were surveyed, only a small ma-
jority saw a need for sororities,” he said.

“But that same class after three years

including sorority information seminars
in both 1986 and 1987.

 

 

here had a very large majority that

nted sororities.

“I chink they began to see how
fraternities have a certain level of inde-
pendence from the institution acting as
mom and dad. ‘The women wanted the
chance to prove that they could operate
in an organization that had those
same types of freedoms, and soro-
rities gave them that opportunity.”

Nineteen national sororities
applied to colonize at W&L.
Eventually, three were chosen by a

wa

volunteer group of women. The
interested women students
gathered material from the na-
tional organizations and con-
ducted surveys to determine
which were the most
popular. “It was fun to
watch the women orga-
nize and watch their
energy,” says Anne
Schroer-Lamont,
associate dean of
students, who
was an admin-
istrative advi-
sor for the
women.
In their
search, the
women de-
cided
which
aspects of
a sorority (also
known as a women’s fra-
ternity) would be most impor-
tant to them and questioned the na-
tional organizations about each of them.
They sought strong national Panhellenic
organizations who were concerned
about non-discrimination, scholarship,
career connections, and who would pro-
vide a representative to live in Lexing-
ton for a year and watch over the new
colony. The committee invited five
sororities to come to campus and give
an in-depth presentation. They chose
three to colonize, Chi Omega, Kappa
Alpha Theta, and Kappa Kappa Gamma.
Shortly after the colonization of the
three chapters in February 1989, a

campus Panhellenic Council was set up.
Panhellenic Council is a central coor-
dinating body for sororities, serving
much the same function as the Inter-
fraternity Council does for the men. It
oversees rush, speaks with the adminis-

tration on behalf of all groups in matters

 

““WOMEN’S FRATERNITIES GIVE WOMEN A
CHANCE TO DEVELOP LEADERSHIP SKILLS

AMONG OTHER WOMEN BEFORE TAKING THOSE

SKILLS TO THE CAMPUS AT LARGE.”

KGBLtY GALB WEL E
National Advisor, Pi Beta Phi

such as housing, implements disciplin-
ary action, supervises expansion, chooses
new sororities to colonize, and provides
programs for all women’s fraternities
and the campus in general.

‘The strong structure, both internally
at W&L and externally through the
sororities national organizations, has been a
large reason for the rapid development of
sorority life at W&L, Atkins said.

“The sororities are very well-run and
very well-managed,” he said. “They re-
ceive so much
guidance from
the national
organization,
and having the
consultants
stay with the
new chapters
during their
first few years
helps their
growth tre-

a!

mendously.”

 

os
- a

Unique sorority activities include KAT’s Halloween Witch Watch (top) and self-defense class (above right) ,
and Chi Omega’s jack-o-lantem carving (above left).

The growth from that first rush was
rapid, almost too rapid. That first rush in
January 1989 yielded 259 pledges for
the three sororities. It was quickly de-
termined that a fourth sorority was
needed, and Delta Gamma was invited
to begin rushing in the winter of 1990. It
was not a success, however. Delta
Gamma canceled its rush activi-
ties when it became apparent
that there was insufficient in-
terest among the W&L women.
Delta Gamma tried again during
the fall and winter of 1990-91, but
again numbers were not there,
and the sorority folded its efforts
at W&L. The main reason
seemed to be that few women
listed DG as their first choice.

The Panhellenic Council,
seeing numbers at the three ini-
tial sororities leap over the cen-
tury mark, recognized the pressing
need for a fourth sorority on
campus. Pi Beta Phi was invited
to be that fourth sorority. In
addition, the Council decided to
adjust the sorority rush system in
favor of a new sorority. Instead of
having bids evenly divided among all
the sororities, the new chapter would be
able to bid a significantly larger portion
of the pledge pool. ‘The adjustment
worked as Pi Phi pledged a class of 72 in
its first rush in January 1992. With the
colonization of Pi Phi, Atkins believes
the system is at a critical stage in deter-
mining any further plans for expansion.

“T think it’s important that we find a
period where we can get stability in the
sorority system and the right size groups, ”

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

hesaid. “Right now,
there are sorority
pledge classes that
are larger than
some of our small-
er fraternities.
That’s out of line
with what we’re
trying to preach
here. I don’t think
you can have a
sense of commu-
nity with those
kind of large num-
bers, and you don’t
have the benefit of
trying to learn lead-
ership skills when
you're in such a
large group.”

But clearly,
leadership is what
the sororities are
trying to provide
for their members.
Indeed, leader-
ship development
impresses those
associated with
women’s fraternities at W&L. Kelly
Caldwell, a national advisor for the Pi
Beta Phi chapter, has been impressed
with what she’s seen at W&L.

“They’re all leaders,” Caldwell
said, noting that when she asked for
volunteers for chapter officers, nearly
every woman raised her hand for at least
one office. In the male-centered environ-
ment of Washington and Lee, women’s
fraternities give women a chance to
develop leadership skills among other
women before taking those skills to the
campus at large. ‘The sorority environ-
ment is an accepting and nourishing
one, where an individual’s best efforts
are noted and applauded.

In this nourishing atmosphere,
women find role models who they can
talk to, ask questions of, and learn the
ropes of college life from. For many
pledges, these upperclass women per-
sonify what they hope to become: a
woman who has managed to have it all
at Washington and Lee, good grades, a

18 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

  

ee
~~ p
2
he ve
s ;
2

 

:
+. a.
in om >}
- : ~~ - ’ a .
é ? vo B
x cs ,

 

ARE SORORITIES DIVIDING WOMEN INTO SEPARATE » EVEN
UNEQUAL GROUPS? IS THE SUCCESSFUL DEVELOPMENT OF SORORITIES
LEAVING WOMEN WITH NO REAL CHOICE BUT TO PLEDGE, AND IS THERE A
STIGMA ATTACHED TO BEING NON-GREEK?

 

healthy social life, and positions of
honor and responsibility.

Andrea Cardamone, ’93, feels that
sororities have “helped the campus real-
ize how effective women can be.”

That effect is certainly telling in
terms of academic standing. Sororities
regularly are at the top of all Greek
groups when cumulative grade-point
averages are published at the end of
each term, routinely posting group aver-
ages above 3.0. In a recent term, of the
20 Greek societies on campus, the two
highest and three of the top six GPAs
were recorded by sororities. In five of
the last six 12-week terms, the GPAs of
sorority women have been higher than
those of non-sorority women.

Schroer-Lamont noted that the
pride of the organizations in their sisters’
academic achievements promotes scholar-
ship. Upperclass women often act as
advisers for younger sisters pursuing the
same major by recommending parti-
cular professors and classes. Processes

such as applying
for graduate

school or a job
seem less intimi-
dating when
women have
watched their sis-
ters before them
succeed, Chapters
provide tutoring
between group
members, as well]
as advice, editing,
and cold tests, In
< addition, chap-

. ters are excep-
i. 4 tionally proud of
Oh their scholars.

tie - a
-

“We recog-
nize every ‘A,’
says Barbara-Jane
League, ’93,a
member of the
scholarship com-
mittee of Chi
Omega. “Fresh-
men who barely
were able to
pledge because
of grades came back and made 3.8s and
4.0s last term.”

+
neo

” = Su

Washington and Lee women’s fra-
ternities, like their brothers, also are effec-
tive in helping the community. In se-
lecting the national women’s fraternities
to colonize at W&L, the element of ser-
vice was a crucial factor. Some sororities
have a national philanthropy that the
local chapters’ fundraisers benefit. Kappa
Alpha Theta, for example, raises money
for Court Appointed Special Advocates,
a group which cares for and provides
attorneys for children who are wards of
the state. Pi Beta Phi makes donations
to a school for the arts supported solely
by Pi Phi chapters around the country.

Annual service projects—such as
Kappa Kappa Gamma’s Bowl-a-thon for
the United Way or Chi Omega’s local
elementary school tutoring become as
important a part of the tradition of a
chapter as annual social events.

But, of course, the social element
remains substantial. In addition to the

 

cwo or three large parties a sorority spon-
sors each year, there are many mixers
with fraternities. ‘There also is the annual
Confetti’s concert and dance, a Sadie
Hawkins type of social event held on
ach spring. The social options

campus ©
ed to date functions, however.

aren't limit

“If | weren’t in a sorority, I would
have never met half of the women I
know,” says League. ‘The mixers have
provided a no-pressure social outlet, too.
“Ir’s an introducing type atmosphere,”
Andrea Cardamone says of the mixers.
Pete Trammell, a 1992 graduate and
member of Kappa Sigma fraternity, feels
that mixers have encouraged more
casual interaction between men and
women in contrast to the typical noisy
party or concert atmosphere.

And of course, in addition to all of
the other needs women’s fraternities
fill, chey provide a place for women to
meet and form life-long friendships. In
answering a Ring-tum Phi interviewer in
an October 1988 story, Kate
Hanley, 91, gave heropinionon the
need for women’s organizations, “I
really think we need something. I
wish I had a larger circle of friends
that I could depend on.” Finding
that special circle of friends has
been the first concern of women’s
fraternities.

on Wash-
ington and
Lee. They
worried that
the women
of W&L
would be-
come frag-
mented and
that sorori-
ties would
inspire
cliques and
exclusion. As to whether or not this has
happened, the jury still seems to be out.
Pete Trammell feels the unity among
women that he saw as a freshman—
before women’s fraternities—has eroded.
“All of the women used to wear ‘T-shirts
with ‘Quality Doesn’t Have To Travel’
(a backlash against the W&L man’s pref-
erence then to date students attending
women’s colleges). Now they just wear
Kappa, Chi-O, or Theta shirts,” he observes.

first pledge class of Pi Beta Phi.

 

 

Sorority activites include visits to area nursing homes and organizing a campus triathlon. Below, members of the

non-Greek. Kara Cunningham’s con-
cern is that “there should always be
room for independents to hold leader-
ship.” Indeed, there may be a stigma
attached to being non-Greek. “I felt as
if there was something wrong about not
wanting to rush,” says Shannon Comer,
93, who remains an independent. Some
Greeks agree. Katherine Walther, ’92, a
charter member of Kappa Alpha Theta,
feels that sororities have become too well
accepted. “Freshman are put
under too much pressure to rush,”
she says, “they have a ‘rush coun-
selor’ before they even get here.”

There is no question that the
sorority voice is strong at W&L.
Both of the women who served
on the Executive Committee in
1991-92 were sorority women, and
the Student Affairs Committee re-
cently granted full voting member
status to a sorority representative.

But Atkins, like most students,

**T THINK OF THE SORORITY SYSTEM AS A MUCH

ow that sororities sees the sorority system as being

are thriving, however, there are
new concerns, concerns that come
with such growth. Are sororities
dividing women into separate,

unifying in a way, not divisive. “I
think the sorority system here is a
much more inclusive system,” he
said. “It’s not perfect, but it’s a

MORE INCLUSIVE SYSTEM. IT’S NOT PERFECT,
BUT IT’S A LOT MORE OPEN. ITHINK IT ALLOWS
THE VAST MAJORITY OF WOMEN THE OPPORTU-
NITY TO PARTICIPATE IF THEY WANT TO.”

even unequal groups? Is the suc-
cessful development of sororities
leaving women with no real choice
but to pledge, and is there a stigma
attached to being non-Greek? Are
sororities receiving equal representation
in student government? And then there is
the larger financial issue of housing. Is it
time for sororities to have their own
Places to meet.

The founding women were concer-
ned about the long-term effects of sororities

BUDDY ATKINS
Associate Dean of Students for Greek Affairs and Student Activities

Chambers Henry, ’92, says she de-
activated from her chapter because she
“didn’t like the idea of dividing up the
women on campus.”

The division is not simply between
women of the four women’s fraternities,
it is also between the Greek and the

lot more open. I think it allows the
vast majority of women the oppor-
tunity to participate if they want
to. In some ways, it’s more inclu-
sive than fraternities, even though
the percentages are not the same.”
However, there is one apparent
division. ‘There is a noticeable absence
of black women in sororities. Most
blacks never rush, although Atkins in-
dicated that in the first rush, “the per-
centage of black women pledging was

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

virtually the same
as the percentage
of white women.”

Nicky May-
field, 94, a black
student says, “If
I did rush I’m
sure I would have
been welcome.”
Among her rea-
sons for not rush-
ing was that the
women who lived
on her hall and in
her classes as-
sumed that she
would not. With-
out encourage-
ment, she never
felt excited about
joining a women’s
fraternity.

In addition,
many white stu-
dents assume that
there is pressure
from within the
black community
for black students
to not join a sorority. ‘There have been
pockets of interest in the traditionally
black sorority, Delta Sigma ‘Theta. That
assumption may keep white students
from reaching out to blacks. Also, minor-
ity students may not have the same mo-
tivations to rush that white students do.
“Our population is so small,” says black
student Mary Alice (Mickee) Mack, 93,
“that we find role models and a group
with similar concerns and ideals within
the black community. ‘The women in
sororities didn’t seem to have the same
ideals I do.” Members of sororities
would like to have minority sisters, but
at this time, the communication gap
hasn’t been bridged, and Atkins, for one,
is concerned.

“I know there was an openness
there originally,” he said, “but now we
haven’t had a really good test recently
to see how it’s going. I know there don’t
seem to be any problems with any other
minority groups.”

Bridging that gap is just one goal/

20 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

**T THINK THAT’S PRETTY MUCH UP IN THE AIR RIGHT NOW. IF THE

NUMBERS AND THE PERCENTAGES STAY THE SAME, WE PROBABLY WILL
HAVE TO ADD SORORITIES. THERE’S NO POINT IN DEVELOPING HOUSING
PLANS NOW WHEN THE SOROTITIES INDIVIDUALLY ARE ABOUT 50 PERCENT

LARGER THAN THE WOMEN WANT THEM TO BE.”

BUDDY ATKINS

crisis of Washington and Lee’s sorori-
ties. ‘he number of additional sorori-
ties, their successful development, and
the housing question are others. With
the University in the final phase of its
multi-million dollar Fraternity Renais-
sance program, some are now asking
whether sororities are now due the
same sort of University-sponsored
financial commitment. But that ques-
tion seems to be putting the cart before
the horse.

Atkins stressed that a careful de-
velopment over the next five years may
bring a fifth, a sixth, or even more
sororities. But any discussion about the
future of sororities is inextricably linked
to how many women will be at W&L in
the future. With the current 60-40 male-
female split, Atkins says matters like
housing are a long way from being
solidified.

“] think that’s pretty much up in
the air right now,” he said. “If the
numbers and the percentages stay the

Same, we prob-
ably will have to
add sororities.
There’s no point
in developing
housing plans
now when the
sororities indiyj-
dually are about
50 percent larger
than the women
want them to be.”

With Pi Beta
Phi’s successful]
first rush, sorori-
ties have taken a
step in the right
direction, as far as
size goes. A suc-
cessful new soro-
rity is crucial to
the success of the
entire system,
which in most
regards appears
to be thriving. It
is doing what it
was designed to
do: provide a
leadership and social outlet for women
in much the same way that fraternities
do for men. It’s a strong system, inside
and out, and it seems to have very little
to do with the right clothes, the right
hair, and the right friends.

“I think sororities are very different
here,” he said. “Joining a particular
sorority is not a way of punching your
ticket in the social circle, and I hope it
never will be that way. I think the
women here are more interested in
sororities for the experience of making
them function well than they are for any
personal social agenda.”

———,

Kimberely Marcott is a senior English major from Bradford,
Pa. She received a 1992 George A. Mahan Award for poetry
and served as an intern with the alumni magazine in the spring
of 1992.

 

 

 

Wilson at Convocation:
Take care of traditions,
each other in last year

pening convocation in Septem-

ber was supposed to be an

opportunity for the Washington
and Lee community to sample the wit
and wisdom of syndicated columnist and
author George Will. Bad storms pre-
vented Will from getting to Lexington to
deliver his remarks, however, leaving
President John D. Wilson to pinch hit.

Speaking to the senior class, the
third-year law class, faculty, staff, and
friends of the University, Wilson kept the
special occasion honoring the senior class
a family affair, and he spoke of the challen-
ges, the traditions, and the responsibilities
of W&L to students who were spending
their last academic year in Lexington.

Wilson assured the crowd that Will
had expressed his regret for his absence
and that the noted author and news
analyst had stressed that he was not can-
celing his appearance at W&L, merely
postponing it. He addressed the seniors,
telling them of what lies immediately
ahead of them and what they should take
from their next nine months.

“There is a rapid unfolding of the
year at this place, more rapid than any
place I’ve ever been,” he said, reciting
the litany of events, the slow return of

 

 

Top: President Wilson gave an impromptu address to a captive audience at Convocation.
Bottom: Freshmen gathered for the annual Alumni Barbecue at the Liberty Hall Ruins on
Sunday of Orientation Week.

students, the settling in period, the mid-
term exams, the big weekends, the final
spring term, and the end-of-year celebra-
tions, and then concluding, “it will be all
over too soon.”

He urged them to experience all they
could here, and called on them to develop
an excitement and even a sense of
wonder about the joys of learning.

Most importantly, Wilson called on
the senior class to be instructors and
examples to W&L’s newest inhabitants.
He listed the strengths of the first-year
classes, both law and undergraduate, but

he asked the seniors to make them strong
in the traditions of W&L, as well.

“We don’t make them wear beanies
anymore, and we don’t tell them to stay
off the front lawn until Easter anymore,
but we do have the speaking tradition and
the Honor System,” he said. “We need
your leadership. You need to take the
leading role in socializing our new
students.”

The opening convocation, usually held
on the first day of classes for the undergrad-
uate division, was reinstituted in 1987 to
honor the senior class.

 

%

cscs

 

7

PAGE 22/THE GAZETTE

*
“~ |
J

 

 

 

 

mamma

Class of 96 continues
W&Ls upward trend

he incoming students that will
smn the W&L Class of 1996 are

a well-rounded and scholastically
talented group, according to statistics and
opinions coming from the University’s
admissions office.

“We're very pleased with the
academic caliber of the enrolling class,”
said William M. Hartog, Dean of
Admissions and Financial Aid. “But
equally gratifying are the strong personal
credentials and characteristics that these
fine young people possess.”

The W&L admissions office faced
the arduous task of selecting the next
freshman class from a record number of
applications. Over 3,400 students
submitted their credentials for review,
and less than 30 percent were granted
admission, yielding a freshman class of 435,
the largest in school history.

The record number of applicants and
the low percentage of acceptances reflects
the stiff competition for a spot in the
Class of 96. And that stiff competition
produced an impressive academic profile
for this year’s entering freshmen.

The average class rank for the group
is the 86th percentile, and the middle half
of the class has SAT scores that range from
1,150 to 1,375. Thirty-eight incoming
freshmen were either valedictorian or
salutatorian of their senior class.

But beyond the hard, cold numbers,
there are real people, too, and the Class of
96 is filled with many well-rounded, ver-
satile, and strong individuals. ‘The
incoming class includes 48 former high
school senior class or student body
presidents.

In addition, there were a total of 149
varsity athletic team captains and 53 edi-
tors of high school publications. ‘These
students were drawn from 352 high
schools and represent 37 states and six
foreign countries.

And, of course, there will be a strong
contingent of incoming freshmen who
already have established W&L ties.
‘Thirty-eight members of the Class of 96
are children of alumni. These 38 were
part of a group of 101 children-of-alumni
applicants. Of those 101, 63 percent were
granted admission. Interestingly, the rate
of acceptance for the remainder of the
applicant pool was a mere 26 percent.

Freshmen experience improved orientation events

hile the days of Washington and Lee’s “Freshmen Camp” are only a
\VV/ memory, the same effects were the goal during September’s freshmen
orientation activities for the new group of W&L students.

A full slate of activities began for the new arrivals as soon as they began unpacking
their station wagons and mini-vans on Sept. 5. In addition to the traditional orientation
activities such as meeting advisers, registering for classes, and generally becoming
introduced to college life in Lexington, the incoming students also were offered a
variety of non-academic programs. ‘These programs helped establish a sense of class

unity and identity even before classes began.

President John D. Wilson welcomed the new students and their parents in a Lee
Chapel address on moving-in day, and several other class gatherings were held in the
first few days, including the annual Alumni Association barbecue at Liberty Hall and a
special group program held in the student pavilion. ‘The program, “Playfair,” was led by a
representative of a professional company whose specialty is leading group activities.

According to Dennis Manning, dean of freshmen and residence life, a key to the
orientation process is the Freshmen Orientation Committee, which is a group of
upperclass students that help structure the orientation process.

“Under the leadership of W&L seniors Robert Wilson and ‘Teresa Wiliams, the
committee has dramatically improved the substance and content of each freshman class

event,” Manning said.

Another new item on the orientation schedule was a program on the history and
traditions of W&L, which was presented by Taylor Sanders, university historian.
Sanders cited many anecdotes, both humorous and moving, and he relayed the history
of the institution through a number of campus landmarks, including Old George, the
Robinson memorial, Lee Chapel, and the Cyrus McCormick statue. Sanders told
W&L’s newest students that they had entered a special place with special responsibili-

ties and special rewards.

“This week, you’re going to begin taking part in an experience at a school where
tradition and courtesy should be our ideal,” he said. “And we all know that sometimes
we don’t live up to these standards because they are very high ones. It’s also a school
that is summed up in the school’s motto. It’s geared to prepare our graduates, and even
our failures, for the future. Remember this as you drink deeply of Washington and Lee.
Drain everything that you can from this cup. Study hard, have fun, look after each
other, cherish the experience, and cherish each other.”

Honor System working well, student leaders say

tudent Executive Committee
S leaders told The Ring-tum Phi in

May that five Washington and Lee
students were forced to withdraw during
the 1991-92 academic year due to honor
violations.

The figures on honor violations show
a slight increase from years past, but the
number of guilty verdicts is about aver-
age, according to former EC President
Giles Perkins, ’92L.

The EC reported 21 honor violation
investigations in 1991-92 and 10 closed
hearings as of May 4. Perkins told 7he Phi
that the EC has averaged three or four
convictions a year over the last 10 years.

“Things are never cut and dry, but
every case we've had has easily fallen
under the categories of lie, cheat, or steal,”
Perkins said.

Perkins told alumni at a Reunion
Weekend seminar that he was concerned
about the lack of an open honor trial in
the last several years.

“We haven’t had an open trial in
three years, and I think they’re important
because they really show the honor
system at work,” he said. However, three
weeks after Perkins’ comments, an open
honor trial was held. ‘The student was
found guilty.

Perkins told 74e PAi that the number
of honor investigations indicates the
overall strength of the honor system.

“The number of investigations [this
year] is real indicative of how well the
system works,” he said. “....l’ve had indi-
cations that the freshman class takes it
very seriously. It’s much harder to con-
vince the law students to take it seriously.”

 

°,
~~

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 23

 

 

 

 

The 1992 Class of the W&L Athletic Ha

ll of Fame and their presenters: (Ist row, from left) inductees Ben

Johns, Stewart Jackson, Forest Fletcher, Jr., Bill Clements, and Terry Fohs; (2nd row) Athletic Director
Mike Walsh, former tennis coach Dennis Bussard, Col. Albert Tucker, Director of Alumni Programs James
D. Farrar, Jr., Bill Pacy, and Barton Dick.

W&L heroes honored in Hall of Fame ceremony

ashington and Lee
inducted five fabled
athletes who span the

history of intercollegiate ath-
letics at W&L into the Ath-
letic Hall of Fame in Septem-
ber at a banquet ceremony in
Evans Dining Hall.

The 1992 class of induc-
tees included Forest Fletcher,
one of the founding fathers of
the physical education and
athletics program at W&L;
Bill Clements, °50, lacrosse
All-America goalie; ‘Terry
Fohs, °62, football All-
American; Ben Johns, ’78,

three-time tennis All-
American; and his doubles
partner Stewart Jackson, five-
time tennis All-American.

At the Hall of Fame
Banquet in September,
Fletcher was remembered for
his ability as a leader and
coach by his nephew Col.
Albert Tucker. Fletcher
served W&L as cross country
and track coach and head of
the physical education
department from 1914-45.

“His life seemed to be a
matter of helping other people
become the best they could

be,” ‘Tucker said in present-
ing Fletcher for induction.

Clements, who was
presented by his long-time
friend and fellow W&L All-
American Bill Pacy, ’50, was
part of a dedicated group of
W&L athletes that brought
about the reestablishment of
lacrosse at W&L in 1947.
Clements remembered those
ragtag early days in his
acceptance remarks.

“In the spring of ’47, we
fielded a team of about 18
men, few helmets, lack of
pads, own sticks, own gloves,

el

own travel arrangements, and
a wonderful faculty adviser
named Doc Baxter,” he said
with a smile. “And Doe,
wherever you are, we thank
you for what you did for us
and please forgive us for what
we did for you.”

In another vein of
resurgence, Fohs was
inducted for his prowess in
leading the resurgence of
W&L football in the early
1960s. He was a two-time All-
American and a two-time
Virginia Small College Player
of the Year. Fohs gave credit
to his teammates and his
coaches at W&L for making
his success possible.

“Suppose there weren’t
Barton Dicks or Steve Suttles
or Bob Paynes or Jerry Hyatts,
then I wouldn’t be here,” he
said. “Thank you all.”

Johns and Jackson were
honored both for the indi-
vidual honors and their NCAA
Division III doubles champi-
onship in 1977. ‘The two stood
at the forefront of W&L’s
entry into the national tennis
picture as W&L has finished
in the top 10 at nationals 11
times since 1977. Johns spoke
to that in his remarks.

“Although you are
honoring Stewart and myself
as individuals, what I’m most
proud of is the recognition of
the Washington and Lee
tennis program,” he said. “I
think we were all very
fortunate to be a part of the
beginning of something
special, a tradition.”

Arizona star named interim volleyball coach; four others hired in athletics

 

risti Yarter, a standout player at the University of
Arizona, has been named interim head volleyball coach
at Washington and Lee for the 1992 season. Susan
Dittman, the head coach at W&L since the program’s inception
in 1987, is taking a one-year leave of absence.
“We're extremely pleased to be able to hire such a qualified
young coach,” said W&L assistant athletic director Cinda Rankin.
Yarter was a four-year letterwinner for the Wildcats and
ranks among the top 10 all-time at Arizona in eight different
statistical categories. Her 1,044 kills ranks fourth in Arizona

history, and her 276 career blocks is second on the all-time list.
She led the team in kills her senior year.

Yarter, who participated in the 1990 U.S. Olympic Festival,
is a native of Phoenix, Ariz., and currently resides in Charlottes-
ville, Va. She earned a bachelor of science degree in family and
consumer resources from Arizona in May 1992.

Other athletic department hirings included John Burgess,
men’s soccer and lacrosse intern; Sarah Ludington, women’s
soccer and lacrosse intern; Jay Plotkin, ’92, sports information
intern; and Mary Beth Poppe, graduate assistant athletic trainer.

 

. of

PAGE 24/ THE

GAZETTE @ |

eh?

 

  

 

 

 

]-school’s Smith
receives Fulbright
to teach in Russia

ampden H. Smith III,
professor of journal-
ism and head of the

department of journalism and
mass Communications, re-
ceived a Fulbright Award to
lecture in Russia during the
fall term of 1992.

Smith will teach reporting
and newspaper design to
students at Moscow State
University.

Smith joined the faculty
at Washington and Lee in
1974. His areas of teaching
are reporting, editing and
design, magazine and feature
writing, newspaper manage-
ment, photojournalism, and
state and local government.
He has served as a consultant
for The Philadelphia Inquirer
and several Virginia newspa-
pers. For six weeks this
summer, Smith worked as a
consultant and copy editor for
the Tampa Tribune.

Smith holds a bachelor’s
degree in English from
Randolph-Macon College and
a master’s degree in U.S.
government and politics from
Boston University.

The principal purpose of
the Fulbright Program is to
promote better mutual
understanding among the
people of the world through
educational and cultural
exchanges.

=

 

W&L faculty

not only strong;
some of them are
pretty fast, too

Washington and Lee

boasts of one of the
strongest faculties in the
nation. What might be a
secret, though, is that W&L
now also has one of the
fastest, too.

Two W&L faculty ath-
letes proved that this summer
in national Masters track and
field competition. John
Tucker, ’77, W&L women’s
track and men’s cross country
coach, and David Howison,
dean of students, each earned
All-America distinction from
The Athletics Congress
Masters Track and Field
Association in meets this
summer.

Tucker finished fourth in
the pentathlon at a national
meet in Spokane, Wash.,
while Howison earned his
distinction in the 800-meter
run held at an all-comers meet
sponsored by the
Charlottesville ‘Track Club.

Howison, who didn’t
begin running until he was in
his mid-30s, began training
when he arrived at W&L in
1990. He trained mostly on
the hills and grassy fields
around Lexington.

The training paid off in
June when Howison won the
800-meter run at Charlottes-
ville in 2:18.6, coming in just
ahead of the All-America
standard of 2:19 for his age
group, 50-54. What was even
more gratifying for Howison
was that he qualified with his
son watching. The success also
has him thirsting for more.

“I’m going to try to make
All-American in the 1,500,” he
said. “I'll start training for that
in January. I enjoy working to
a future goal, so this should be
pretty fun.”

Tucker, competing in the

| t is no secret that

David Howison (left) and John Tuck

on the track at Wilson Field.

40-44 age group, entered the
pentathlon at the last minute.
The five events of the penta-
thlon are the long jump, jave-
lin, 200-meter dash, discus,
and the 1,500-meter run, which
is Tucker’s strongest event.

Entering the pentathlon
on a whim, Tucker confessed
his training was of the
“Johnny-come-lately” variety.
The lack of training showed,
Tucker said, especially in the
javelin and long jump.

“I jumped pretty well, but
I took off a foot-and-a-half
behind the board, so I lost
that much from my jump,” he
said. “I didn’t do very well in
the javelin. I had a little
training in the discus, and I
pulled one out of the hat.”

Tucker’s throw of 96 feet
placed him third in the event
and sixth overall going into his
specialty, the 1,500 meters.
He ran away from the pack,
winning the event and piling

 

[ THE GAZETTE/PAGE2 @ [}

 

 

ne, ee 7
Sith ie oe ae a

er display their All-America form

up more single-event points
than any other competitor.
The performance moved him
from sixth to fourth in the
final standings and earned
him All-America status.

“It feels good to be an
All-American, but it’s not
something I set out to do,”
Tucker said. As a two-time
All-American (Tucker was a
1991 Masters All-American in
the mile run), ‘Tucker hopes
his success will help him
relate to his athletes better,
and vice versa.

“T hope that this makes me
more credible if I give my
runners some advice,” he said.
“IT would hope they'll realize
that when I ask them to doa
tough workout, I know what it
feels like. I hope they feel
that I experience what they
experience when they’re
running.”

—Jay Plotkin, 92

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L’snew facultymembers:(seated, fromleft) Betty Kondayan (library), Hugh Blackmer(library),Jonathan Filer(geology), Agnes Carbrey(art),
David Jorgensen (geology), and Douglas Szajda(math);(standing) Dominica Radulescu(romance languages), Heather Miller( English), Winston
Davis(religion), Evan Bridenstine(theater), Malcolm Crystalthistory), Elizabeth Marsh (law), Neill Alford (law), and Bernard Schloh (law).

New faculty members bring variety of talents from variety of places

ashington and Lee

recently announced

the appointment of
11 new faculty members,
beginning with the fall term.
‘The new additions bring a
diversity of educational and
professional experiences with
them to the University.

In the University library,
Hugh Blackmer has been
named associate professor.
Blackmer, who has degrees
from Harvard, Stanford, and
Simmons College, most re-
cently was in the sociology/
anthropology department at
Acadia University in Canada.
Also, Betty Ruth Kondayan, a
member of the University
library staff from 1971-81,
returns for a one-semester
assignment in the library.

Evan Bridenstine will
serve a one-semester appoint-
ment as a visiting artist with
the theater department.
Bridenstine, who most recently
has lectured at the University
of Virginia’s drama depart-
ment, received his master’s in
playwriting from Virginia.

oe
L

Agnes Carbrey is a new
assistant professor of art.
Serving a one-year appoint-
ment, Carbrey, has degrees in
painting from the Kansas City
Art Institute and the Parsons
School of Design and has had
exhibitions at the Smith-
sonian and the Bronx Museum
of the Arts.

Malcolm Crystal will
serve as an instructor in his-
tory while completing his
doctoral dissertation. He has
degrees from the University
of Rochester and Virginia.

Winston Davis is the
University’s new Jesse Ball
duPont Professor of Religion.
He comes to W&L after
teaching at Colgate-Rochester
Divinity School, the Univer-
sity of Chicago, and Stanford.
He is the author of two books
on modern Japanese Buddhism.

Jonathan Filer will serve a
one-year assignment with the
geology department. He
earned both his master’s and
doctorate from the University
of North Carolina. Also in the
geology department is David

Jorgensen, who is a new assis-
tant professor. His master’s is
from Penn State, and his doc-
torate in fluvial geomorphol-
ogy is from Colorado State.

Heather Miller is a new
professor of English, teaching
creative writing at W&L. She
comes to W&L from the Uni-
versity of Arkansas. Miller is
the author of five novels, a
volume of short prose, and four
volumes of poetry.

Dominica Radulescu is a
new instructor in romance
languages. She has degrees
from Loyola (Ill.) and the
University of Chicago. She is
a native of Bucharest,
Hungary, and emigrated to
the United States in 1983.

Douglas Szajda is on a
one-year appointment and will
serve as assistant professor of
math. He earned his master’s
and doctorate from Virginia.

W&L benefits from VFIC gift

ashington and Lee recently received a gift of a
quarter of a million dollars from the Virginia Federa-
tion of Independent Colleges (VFIC), the 15-member
consortium that seeks funds from major corporations in Virginia.

The VFIC achieved its 11th consecutive record-breaking
year of fund raising with total contributions of over $3.4 million
for fiscal 1992. Of that amount, W&L received $243,332.

‘The VFIC is one of only two such independent college
funds nationally to surpass $3 million in the year.

The 15 schools that comprise the VFIC are Bridgewater,
Emory & Henry, Hampden-Sydney, Hollins, Lynchburg, Mary
Baldwin, Marymount, Randolph-Macon, Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College, Roanoke, Shenandoah, Sweet Briar, Rich-
mond, Virginia Wesleyan, and W&L.

 

” PAGE 26/ THE

GAZETTE @

 

 

 

 

 

————

PBS series to run Washington segment

film on George Washington is being produced for the

Public Broadcasting System, and the show will feature

one of Washington and Lee’s most prized possessions,
the famous Charles Willson Peale portrait of the young Washing-
ton in uniform.

The film, “Geoge Washington: The Man Who Would Not

Be King,” will be shown as part of the PBS series “The Ameri-
can Experience.” The program is scheduled to air on Nov. 18 at
9 p.m. The Peale portrait of Washington came to W&L as part
of a gift of portraits and other paintings from former University
president George Washington Custis Lee, who was president of
W&L from 1871-97 after the death of his father, Robert E. Lee.
The Peale portraits were passed through inheritance from the
Washington family to the Lee family (Robert E. Lee’s wife,
Mary Custis Lee, was the daughter of George Washington’s
adopted son, George Washington Parke Custis.)

WA&L faculty promotions announced

hirteen faculty promotions on the undergraduate level
were recently approved by the Board of ‘Trustees. Pro-
moted to the rank of professor (already tenured) were
Laurent Boetsch (romance languages), Larry M. Stene (art), and
Robert A. Strong (politics).

Those promoted to the rank of professor (with tenure)
were Winston B. Davis (religion) and Heather R. Miller
(English).

Faculty members who were promoted to the rank of
associate professor (with tenure) were David A. Badertscher

(University Library), Paul S. Bourdon (mathematics), Margaret S.

Brouwer (music), Steven G. Desjardins (chemistry), William J.
King (accounting), Barry H. Kolman (music), Kipling M. Pirkle
(administration), and Ann T. Rogers (East Asian languages).

Boetsch, associate dean of the College from 1989-92, has
been at W&L since 1976. His specialty is Spanish language and
literature. Stene, whose areas of expertise are sculpture,
printmaking, and drawing, has been at W&L since 1982. Strong,
who has been at W&L since 1989, has primary teaching
responsibilities in international relations and American foreign
policy. He is writing a book on President Carter’s foreign policy.

Badertscher has been at W&L since 1988. His area of library
expertise is in technical and public services. Bourdon, also at
W&L since 1988, teaches complex analysis, function theory, and
operator theory. Brouwer, an accomplished composer, has been
teaching composition, music theory, and violin at W&L since
1988. Desjardins joined the W&L faculty in 1986. His area of
expertise is physical chemistry, disorder and chaos, and introduc-
tory chemistry.

King has been at W&L since 1989. He teaches all levels of
accounting, including managerial and financial, as well as
auditing. Kolman, a member of the W&L faculty since 1988,
teaches music theory and applied music, and he serves as
conductor of the University Wind Ensemble and the University-
Rockbridge Symphony. Pirkle has been at W&L since 1989,
teaching management, entrepreneurship, and statistics. Rogers
began as a lecturer in Japanese at W&L in 1974, became an
instructor in 1986, and an assistant professor in 1989.

 

 

1992-93

WINTER SPORTS SCHEDULES

Basketball

 

 

= a %

 

Nov. 20-21 at Trinity (Texas) Tip-Off Tournament Away
Nov. 24 at Sewanee 7:30 p.m.
Nov. 28 at Bridgewater 2:00 p.m.
Nov. 30 at Virginia Wesleyan 7:30 p.m.
Dec. 3 HAMPDEN-SYDNEY 7:30 p.m.
Dec. 5 GUILFORD 7:30 p.m.
Dec. 8 EMORY & HENRY 7:30 p.m.
Jan. 6 MILLSAPS 7:30 p.m.
Jan. 9 ROANOKE 7:30 p.m.
Jan. 11 MARY WASHINGTON 7:30 p.m.
Jan. 13 LYNCHBURG 7:30 p.m.
Jan. 16 RANDOLPH-MACON 3:00 p.m.
Jan. 20 at Emory & Henry 7:30 p.m.
Jan. 22 BRIDGEWATER 7:30 p.m.
Jan. 27 at Hampden-Sydney 7:30 p.m.
Jan. 30 at Guilford 7:30 p.m.
Feb. 3 VIRGINIA WESLEYAN 7:30 p.m.
Feb. 6 EASTERN MENNONITE 7:30 p.m.
Feb. 10 at Lynchburg 7:30 p.m.
Feb. 13 at Roanoke 7:30 p.m.
Feb. 15 at Queens (N.C.) 7:30 p.m.
Feb. 17 at Eastern Mennonite 7:30 p.m.
Feb. 20 at Randolph-Macon 3:00 p.m.
Feb. 23, 25, 27 ODAC Tournament TBA
Swimming
Nov. 14 CENTRE (M&W) 1:00 p.m.
Nov. 20-21 at Hollins Invitational (W) TBA
Nov. 21 at Mary Washington (M) 4:00 p.m.
Dec. 2 at VMI, Sweet Briar (M&W) 7:00 p.m.
Jan. 9 CATHOLIC (M&W) 2:00 p.m.
Jan. 13 at Mary Baldwin (W) 7:00 p.m.
Jan. 14 BUFFALO STATE (M&W) 7:00 p.m.
Jan. 16 at Georgetown (M&W) 2:00 p.m.
Jan. 23 EMORY, JOHNS HOPKINS, TBA

SWARTHMORE (M&W) TBA
Jan. 30 at Franklin & Marshall (M&W) 2:00 p.m.
Feb. 6 MARY WASHINGTON (M&W) 2:00 p.m.
Feb. 13 at Radford (M&W) 1:00 p.m.
Feb. 18-20 at Emory Invitational (M) TBA
Feb. 19-21 at ODAC Championships (W) TBA
Wrestling
Nov. 8 at VMI Keydet Invitational 10:00 a.m.
Dec. 4-5 at Lebanon Valley Tournament TBA
Dec. 9 APPRENTICE SCHOOL 4:00 p.m.
Jan. 9 DAVIDSON Noon
Jan. 16 at Johns Hopkins, Western Md. 1:00 p.m.
Jan. 23 W&L INVITATIONAL 9:30 a.m.
Jan. 30 at Gallaudet Invitational TBA
Feb. 7 at State Championships TBA
Feb. 11 at Longwood 7:00 p.m.
Feb. 26-27 at NCAA Regionals TBA

°
% !

THE GAZETT E/ PAGE 27

 

 

 

 

 

|

i fe | |
mae) PT) ae
~ g ad :

~~ ¢ . en

 

A view of the construction work being done on campus for the Watson Gallery.

Construction in full swing on and off campus

ammers, saws, and bulldozers mixed with the other sounds of late summer and
early fall as construction continued on the Watson Gallery, as well as on several
fraternity houses. It’s construction season again at Washington and Lee.

Work on the Watson Gallery, the addition to the Reeves Center, began in mid-summer
and Frank Parsons, University coordinator of capital planning, told The Ring-tum Phi in
September that construction on the facility is on schedule for a February completion
date.

‘The Watson Gallery will be located directly behind the Reeves Center, in between
‘Tucker and duPont halls. It will house a collection of Chinese export porcelain, jade,
and furnishings given to the University by Elizabeth Otey Watson of Lynchburg, Va.
The gallery is being funded by a gift from Mrs. Watson, the wife of William C. Watson,
"29.

‘The new construction and renovation of a number of fraternity houses took place
over the summer and was continuing through the fall months, as well. The Fraternity
Renaissance is in its final phase, and it is expected all fraternity houses will have been
renovated by September 1993.

Both the Chi Psi lodge, which is independently renovating its house, and the Kappa
Alpha house experienced delays over the summer. Members of Chi Psi were able to
move into their house in mid-September. The KA house was to be ready for occupancy
in the fall, but by September the target date for completion was changed to Jan. 1.

Delta ‘Tau Delta, which was removed from fraternity renaissance following the
fraternity’s suspension for vandalizing its house last winter, reapplied to Fraternity
Renaissance in July. Parsons told The Ring-tum Phi that plans are for work on the Delt
house to begin in the fall and be completed by the fall of 1993.

‘Two fraternities returned to their houses in the fall, as both Pi Kappa Phi and Phi
Kappa Psi moved into their renovated and refurbished homes on East Washington
Street in September.

Work also was begun on the new homes for Sigma Chi and Sigma Phi Epsilon.
‘These new homes will be in the Davidson Park area, which is bordered by Nelson and
Washington streets. These houses are expected to be ready for occupancy by Septem-
ber 1993.

 

all

Annual Fund sets records
for 7th year in a row

he Annual Fund set new records for
contributions to the University for
the seventh consecutive year, based
on figures recently released by the Office
of Development on the 1991-92 Annual
Fund.

‘The Annual Fund, which consists
only of unrestricted gifts to be used for
the University’s current operating budget,
raised $2,211,314, a new record for the
University and a $40,000 increase over
last year’s record total.

‘The total number of alumni, parents,
and friends contributing to the fund was
7,269, a 4-percent increase from 1990-9].
‘The number of Washington and Lee
alumni who contributed was 6,481, a 3-
percent increase from the previous year.
That figure represents 38.3 percent of the
total alumni body.

“A gift to the Annual Fund provides
direct support for the students and faculty
and is the most immediate way in which
one can have an impact on the educa-
tional experience here at Washington and
Lee,” said Peter Cronin, ’84, director of
the Annual Fund for W&L. “We are very
grateful to everyone who contributed to
the success of the fund this year.”

Gifts from alumni totaled a record
$2,004,847, a slight increase over last year.
As was the case last year, the largest in-
crease in gifts came from current parents
of W&L students who contributed a
record $117,303, an increase of 30 percent
over last year. Ihe number of contribut-
ing parents totaled a record 633, a 13 per-
cent increase from 1990-91.

A record number of major donors
contributed to this year’s Annual Fund.
‘Twenty-five members of the General’s
Council, those whose gifts are $10,000 or
more, contributed $324,717 to the Annual
Fund. Gifts from George Washington
Associates ($5,000 or more) totaled
$149,420. Total gifts from Lee Associates
($1,000) or more rose to $860,414, up
more than 11 percent from last year.

Chairman of this year’s Annual Fund
was John C. Moore of Richmond, Va.,
Moore, a partner in the Richmond law
firm of Coates and Davenport, received
his undergraduate degree from Washing-
ton and Lee in 1966 and his law degree
from W&L in 1973.

 

oe

— ~° PAGE 28/ THE GAZETTE

7
j

 

 

 

   
    
  
  
        
  
 

a —
we :
. -
~
P , , ti
if . \ + a:
\ \ eK
i Xe :
- i

= [By Timeless Traditions

J

 

 

 

 

 

 

A1 Finally, our ”

wonderful Wedgwood

plate Bare avallalne A2 Solid brass (10 Ibs!) lamp A3 Mantle Clock from Heritage

again’ Four scenes: ) S with black shade, handcrafted in Brass in solid cherry cabinet,
Lee Chapel, A2 | the USA by Heritage Brass. 26” 14”h x 10”w x 6"d, with brass

Washington Hall, the i high, it features the University handle and finials. Westminster
eckson House | crest in 24K gold plate set into the | chime quartz battery movement

and Washington Y base. Engraved nameplate by Hermle of Germany. Gold
Lollege 1857 comprise 1 available ($15.00 extra). Lamp plated medallion with crest of

om _ F will be shipped from W&L. Personalized engraved
Staffordshire blue” manufacturer. $295.00+9.00 | nameplate available ($15.00
plates. Set of Four i= shippin /nandling extra). Shipped direct from
boxed $215.00. Lee —— i | manufacturer. $250.00 + 6.00
Chapel and Washington UPS/handling.

Hall plates are also &}

available singly. Each nll

boxed $56.00. ——

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B1 A tie in honor of the return of «
George.” Woven for us in England. Sewn j
the USA. Your choice of navy or byr un ‘

with white stripes and figure. All sj
boxed. $25.00. sik. Git

B2 Three quart insulated ice bucket fro
Kraftware. Handsome navy vinyl with .
colored lid and fittings. Boxed. $40.00"

Ask about other pewter items, They had p
arrived from overseas at press time. ’

B3 Golf towel of 100% cotton velour
Devant. Your choice of navy embroij
in white or white with navy. A true 9
towel, folded in thirds, with a gromm
ring. $11.95.

B4 Upon advice from real golfers, we have
upgraded our golf balls. They are made
and imprinted for us by Wilson. Patenteg
dimple pattern, 90 compression. $11.00
for 3, boxed.

B5 A set of four double Old-fashioneg
glasses in their own gift box. $13.00.

Ask about our other glassware.

B6 Flask from England in polished lead-free
pewter. Holds six ounces. Boxed. $37.95,
Four ounce size also available. $35.95.

B7 Belt from Leatherman in webbing and dark
polished leather with solid brass buckle.
University crest is woven in navy and white
Webbing choices are Khaki, navy and red.
Even waist sizes 32” to 40.” $13.95.

B8 Leather key ring with the crest in navy
and white. $5.00.

B9 Webbing key ring with navy and white
crest from Leatherman. Webbing in your
choice of khaki, navy, or red. $3.50.

B10 Heavy lead-crystal paperweight with
2 1/2” diameter pewter crest. Boxed. $25.95.

B11 New one-ounce shot glass with faceted
base. Crest screened in deep blue.
3” high. $3.95.

B12 Top threads Alumni T-shirt in ash grey
100% cotton. The crest is embroidered in
five colors. M, L, XL. $24.95.

B13 Lightweight 100% cotton knit shorts in
ash grey from Carolina Connection. Sizes
M,L, XL. $18.95.

B14 Top Threads Alumni sweatshirt in ash
grey cotton. Crest embroidered in five
colors, sizes M, L, XL. $41.95.

B15 Lightweight 100% cotton knit sweatpants
in ash grey from Carolina Connection. Elastic
and drawstring waist, and on seam pockets.
Sizes S, M, L, XL. $21.95.

B16 Heavyweight Ash Gray sweatshirt from
Jansport in 97/3 cotton/poly mix. Screen
print in navy/emerald. M, L, XL. $32.95.

B17 Pro-style cap in navy twill with grey and
white embroidery. Adjustable band. $9.95.
Also available in white wool or navy wool with
embroidery $12.95.

B18 Nylon and cotton jacket, from Charles
River Apparel, with our wordmark
embroidered left chest. M, L, XL. $35.98.
Also available with full zipper. M, L, Xt.
$36.95.

B19 The athletic logo embroidered on a twill
cap. Navy with white or white with navy
logo. Adjustable band. $8.95.

B20 From College House, a tailored 100%
heavyweight cotton flannel shirt with bone
buttons and our athletic logo in navy
outlined in white. Colors available: navy,
green, red. M,L, XL. $39.95.

from
dereg
Olfer’s
et and

eee ee ee ee ee

a

*

 

”
pistol A) | Wis

7"

WASHINGTON aNnDLEE

= UNIVERSITY
ay =
- : , > 4 >» » 7 }
; 7A A LO Os

 

oc

C12

C15 maw Swe

  
 

 

  
     

   
    

 

C1 Large golf umbrella in royal blue and
white. Sent in its own heavyweight
mailing tube. $21.95.

C2 Embroidered LAW sweatshirt from Top
Threads. 100% cotton, ash grey with
navy embroidery. S, M, L, XL. $39.95.
XXL. $41.95. Also available as a Law T
shirt by Top Threads, 100% cotton. Ash
grey with navy embroidery. S, M, L, XL.
$24.95.

C3 Applique and embroidery are the new
look for fall. From Jansport, a deep green
50/50 poly/cotton heavy sweatshirt with
Washington and Lee in gold, applique

in fall colors. L.XL.$44.95.

C4 For the little one from Little

. King - a One-piece coverall in

50/50 poly/cotton with snaps.

Embroidery on left chest. Not intended for

sleepwear. Sizes 6, 12, 18 or 24 months
$14.95.

C5 WA&L cap for your child. Specify infant
or toddler size. Adjustable. $5.95.

C6 Baby bib of terrycloth from Collegiate-
Pacific with the crest imprinted in red and
blue. $6.50.

C7 Two sizes of stuffed animals in a knitted
W&L sweater. Your choice of a Brown or
White bear: 10” 14.50, and 12” $16.50.

C8 T-shirt from Jansport. White 100%
cotton silkscreened in kelly/navy. M, L,
XL $13.50. XXL $14.50.

C9 Ash sweatshirt from Jansport, 97%
cotton, 3% polyester. Silkscreened in
grey/white. M, L, XL $29.95.

C10 Champion sweatshirt - our most
popular reverse weave heavyweight. Grey
with navy imprint. These run very large!
S, M, L, XL $37.95. XXL $39.95.

C11 The same look as our most popular
shirt, but a lighter weight and lesser price.
S, M, L, XL $29.95. XXL $30.95.

C12 An off-white mug from Bunting with
the University Crest in red and blue.
$6.50.

C13 An elegant mug from Imprinted
Products in a black with green marble-
look china with the crest and rim in
microwave-safe gold. Interior is white.
Hand wash. $9.50.

C14 Aluminum License plate in gold with
navy imprint. $4.95.

C15 Metal license plate frame with
Washington and Lee University in white
on navy background. $6.95.

C16 White turtleneck for the younger set.
White with navy/grey imprint. Sizes 12,
18, 24 months, toddler 2,3 and 4 $14.50.

C17 From Champion, a 100% cotton T
shirt for kids. Available in ash grey,
purple, navy and white. Sizes 6-8, 10-12,
14-16 $11.95.

 

 

 

 

C6

C7

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

FAX ORDERS: 1-703-463-8939

-

 

 

dora Te lege
ot Pate Gr

 

 

~
cre & Byer ond
Rent he Deke

 

ray

   
  

 

Me? mt heme ee 7 ry
a es i ~ A
* —ws a Sar ae
-s a ee eee -
aenitaeeere tein “ ae ae
— —& ~
ee a ee:

D7 Spring: fresh greens and bright pinks and blues are D9 Autumn: color print in browns and golds by David
featured here. Two sized available: 38” x 27” is $183.00, Keeling, ‘73. Size 20” x 16 overall. Shipped from the
20 1/2” x 14” is $55.00. artist’s studio. $55.00.

D8 Summer: color print by David Keeling, ‘73. Soft 07, 8 & 9 are double matted and framed in da
greens and dusty rose predominate. Large size: 35” x tipped in gold. Shipped from the artist's studio.
29” overall. $183.00.

 

 

 

 

 

Harlan Beckley |

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

rk wood

 

 

 

 

of Christmas |
ornaments and a |
Slightly different
look. Deep Cherry
red enamel on

 

 

 

 

 

D1 LE PETIT GARCON by Phillipe Labro, ‘58. A best-seller in
France and a contender for the prestigious Prix Goncourt, Labro’s
newest brings us a tender novel about a young boy coming of age

 

, glass with “Old
ina small French town during WWII. Hardcover $22.95 (AD) George” in white.
D2 PASSION FOR JUSTICE by Harlan Beckley, W&L Religion On the back “Old
professor and editor of the Annual of the Society of Christian George Comes
Ethics. Subtitled: “Retrieving the Legacies of Walter Home to W&L”
Rauschenbusch, John A. Ryan, and Reinhold Neibuhr,” the book 3 1/4” in diameter
explores how theology, ethics, and public policy are reflected in in its own box.
the lives of these three men who have had great impact on $7.95.

 

 

Christian thinking about justice. Hardcover $27.00 (AD)

D3 LOVE COOLS by W. Edward Blain, ‘74. The Edgar Award
nominee (for best mystery) returns with another tale of murder D10 Our Benefactor - a color print of
and mayhem in the peaceful surroundings of a Virginia boys a Peale portrait.

prep school. Blain, who chairs the English Dept. at Woodberry
Forest, presents a superior tale of mystery and malfeasance.
Hardcover $19.95 (AD)

D4 LEE AND JACKSON by Paul D. Casdorph. The first dual
biography of the confederacy’s greatest commanders asks
“How did Lee and Jackson achieve together what Lee and his
other generals could not?” Casdorph discusses an

 

 

 

D11 Our Leader - a color print of a
portrait by Elder.

Both are double matted in black and
gold, framed in dark cherry, with a
brass name plate at the bottom. 3
sizes available, boxed:

   

 

 

 

 

 

“interconnectiveness” between them that led to their great 1) 10" x 12° opening (overall 11 1/2"

military triumphs. Hardcover $24.95 (AD) x 13 1/2”) $45.00,
D5 SWEET LUCY WINE by Dabney Stuart, W&L chaired English 2) 8° x 10° with oval mat (overall

professor and editor of Shenandoah. Stuart's first collection of 9 1/2” x 11 1/2") $45.00,

short fiction centers around a boy growing up in a Southern 3) 4 1/2” x7 1/2” ee oe

town. The vivid prose and subtle wisdom and humor of these (overall 6 1/2” x _ ——:

Stories create a world that is delightful and moving. $18.95 (AD) 8 1/2”) $30.00. og : D14 Blazer crest made for | D15 Blazer buttons from ae

—_— he us in India, with silver 24K gold plated. Three coat buttons

D6 THE UNDERGRADUATE ALMANAC: A LOW-LIFE GUIDE TO (Prices per single . y

HIGHER EDUCATION by Jon Sbar, ‘91 magna cum laude print, not pairs.) sat sith -acomah and six sleeve DUthIG aa

English/Communications double major. An odyssey through
college life, including many examples from Sbar’s experience at
WA&L, thinly disguised. He has changed names to protect
himself, not the innocent, but most W&L students will

fasteners so crest
can be removed
from jacket.

D13 Note cards of
the campus in
soft pastel

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

colors. 10 in a box $25.95.
Soe professors, events, and exams. Paperback with envelopes. $5.95. |
D13
[(AD) denotes 10% discount for alumni]
W & L University Bookstore
Lexington, VA 24450 Name
(703) 463-8633 FAX:703) 463-8939.
Mon. - Fri. 8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. Address
|

If transmission problems require faxing your order twice, City State Zip
please makrk the second fax as a duplicate.

Please send no money with your order as prices can change Day Phone (Please!) — |

without warning. We will bill you, adding UPS and sales tax
where applicable. If you’d rather order by phone or you have a
question, please call us.

For orders over $5.00:
(J) VISA ([JMASTERCARD _ Exp. Date
Charge Card Number.

LC LL) Wa) Wa

Signature

 

 

 

For shipping please check one:
[] Residence (] Commercial address 9/92

 

 

 

 

 

 

Alumni College: 11th year provides
more of the same—high quality

ashington and
Lee’s 11th summer
of Alumni Colleges
featured four distinct sessions
that featured discussion topics
as varied as Emily Dickinson
and Nefertiti, and yet, as Rob
Fure, director of special pro-
grams, explains, each partici-
pant could have left his or her
session with a similar feeling.

That feeling was one of
accomplishment and apprecia-
tion for new knowledge. It is
a feeling that has become
standard issue at the W&L
Alumni Colleges.

“We begin these
programs with the question:
What do we need to know and
what information about this
topic is useful,” Fure said.
“With each of our topics, we
try to bring that material to
some degree of relevance in
the lives of our participants.”

The summer of ’92
featured four on-campus
seminars. ‘The first, held June
21-27, was “A Conversation
on America: Reflections on
Five Major Issues.” Follow-
ing that was “Local Voices:
Literature and Music of the
United States,” held June 28-
July 4. The third seminar was
titled “The Russians: From
Empire to Disunion,” and was
held July 5-11, and Alumni
College °92 concluded with
“The Nile Kingdoms: Ancient
Egypt,” held July 12-18.

Each session received a
healthy participant turnout
with numbers ranging from 40
to nearly 100. In all, it was
another record enrollment
with over 300 people
registering for one of the four
Sessions.

“Clearly, this was our best
year ever,” Fure said. “I am
most pleased with the pro-
grams this year, and each was
quite different than the others.

“There’s no question now
that Washington and Lee has

the greatest participation per
capita of any of the alumni
colleges in the country.”

‘That success of the Alumni
College is due initially to the
continued support of the alumni,
but is especially enhanced by
the quality of the faculty.

And 1992 was no exception.

Each week-long session
was loaded with high-powered
speakers, both those from
within the W&L family and
those brought in as special
guests. In addition toa
distinguished group of W&L
faculty experts, the list of
speakers included out-of-
towners like Sol Wachtler, ’51,
chief justice of the Supreme
Court of the state of New York,
who spoke on the crisis of
caseloads; long-time Alumni
College participant Gray Castle,
°53, of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, who spoke on the
environment; John Dahlburg,
°75, Moscow correspondent
for the Los Angeles Times , who
led discussions on Russia
today at a daily reception in
the Morris House; Alexey
Yablokov, state counsellor for
ecology and public health for
the Russian Federation, who
spoke on the problems facing
Russia today; and Kent Weeks,
internationally renowned
Egyptologist at the American
University in Cairo, who led
discussions during the Nile
Kingdom seminar and detailed
his recent discovery of what
may be the largest tomb in
the Valley of the Kings.

Fure pointed proudly to the
entire program, but he said he
found something particularly
special about the Russia
session.

“I think that was an ex-
traordinarily successful program,”
he said. “It was one of those
things that you plan and hope
for, and in the end, everything
really came together.

 

W&L English professor Severn Duvall was again a featured faculty
member at the Alumni College.

“It really had an almost
cathartic effect on the
participants, I thought. It was
the shock of a new view, a
new orientation, certainly.
Here is this enormous society
with very pressing economic
and social needs. I think when
you come to understand the
enormous problems of the
Russian people, it’s nearly
mind-boggling.”

The success of the Alumni
College program once again
has Fure scurrying to develop
another strong series for ’93.
He said the good reviews
keep coming in with “99 per-
cent of this year’s participants

giving the program the top
rating.” All of that good news
gives Fure a simple goal for
next year.

“My plan is to make the
Alumni Colleges a very diffi-
cult choice for the aspiring
participant,” he said. “I want
it to be difficult to choose
because there are four very
good options, but I also want
it to be even more difficult to
make a bad choice.”

‘Those interested in
obtaining more information
about the W&L Alumni

Jollege should contact the
Office of Special Programs,
(703) 463-8723.

Peat Marwick funds computer lab

ashington and Lee dedicated a new computer facility,
the KMPG Peat Marwick/Apple Computer Labora-
tory—in the School of Commerce, Economics, and

Politics on Wednesday, May 6.

The advanced Macintosh laboratory will offer students and
faculty members in the Commerce School a new range of com-
puting options. The eight Macintosh computers, four printers,
and associated software will enhance the accounting education,
as well as be available for general use in the Commerce School.

The creation and funding of the new facility was made
possible through gifts made by several W&L alumni from Peat
Marwick. Their gifts were then matched by KMPG Peat
Marwick of Roanoke, Va., and OmniComp Computer Center of
Charlottesville, Va., an Apple computer dealer.

The five alumni, all current or retired partners at Peat
Marwick, who gave to the laboratory are John Runge, °73, of
Dallas; Morton Solomon, ’51, of New York; Ken Wood, ’74, and
Lee Putney, 53, of Richmond, Va.; and Richard Berry, °57, of

Roanoke, Va.

 

3

7

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 29

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Leyburn plays the piano in Lee Chapel during a visit to W&L.

Notes from a visit with Dr. Leyburn

wenty years ago last June, Dr. James Graham Leyburn, one

of Washington and Lee’s contemporary giants stepped down

from his teaching post (“descends the slopes of Mount
Olympus—an inch or two,” as the alumni magazine put it at the
time). Since then, he has been living a full and active retired life,
first at his family farm near Martinsburg, W.Va., and now in a
retirement community just across the Potomac River near
Williamsport, Md.

But while Leyburn, former Dean of the University and
chairman of the sociology department, has been away from
Lexington for most of the last 20 years, his thoughts often return
to this place. Lex McMillan, °72, recently had the opportunity to
chat with Leyburn, and although the former dean protested any
sort of publicity (“...publicity is the last thing I desire...the idea of
a story for the next alumni magazine makes no appeal to me,”
Leyburn wrote in a recent letter), there seems to be little doubt
that the thoughts of this gentle man and scholar would be
welcome news to an audience composed of so many whose lives
he touched in and out of the classroom in his more than 25 years
of service to W&L.

In his notes from their meeting, McMillan writes that

ae

Leyburn seems much the man he always was and still a true
believer in Washington and Lee.

“Sull erect and carrying a full head of white hair, he greets
his visitor with eyes as full of curiosity and lively humor as ever...
“Always eager to hear news from Lexington, he makes ir

difficult for his visitor to ask any questions. He wants to know
about today’s students, about the morale of the faculty, about the
Fraternity Renaissance. ‘The latter he approves of heartily, but
continues to wish that W&L would defer rush to later in the year
to give freshmen a chance to get their feet on the ground before
being segregated into smaller groups.

“He is curious about the development of sororities and how
coeducation is working. Not too surprisingly, he approves that
change and only wishes it had occurred earlier, crediting
coeducation with many of the new strengths that W&L enjoys
today.

“He expresses deep admiration for John Wilson and pride in
the increasing national recognition of the University’s academic
stature. He recalls his early days at Washington and Lee and his
friendship with Frank Gilliam. Dean Gilliam, Leyburn says,
‘readily and willingly backed up all my proposals for change and
for making W&L a national institution.”

Leyburn’s memories are vivid, and the mention of Dean
Gilliam brings him to one of his early memories of W&L and his
first days as a dean himself.

“At Yale, | was merely one faculty member among many,”
Leyburn recalled. “But one of my first discoveries at W&L was
that, simply because I was Dean of the University and second in
authority only to President Gaines, I was definitely not ‘one
among many.’ I learned from the first week that I could not
possibly have any faculty intimates, or any professor with whom I
could chat casually about University affairs. If 1 wanted friends,
they must be townspeople. During my first weeks, I was seen
walking down the Colonnade with the same professor. Shortly
afterwards, the registrar casually referred to him as ‘one of your
favorites.’ hat episode reinforced my conviction that I was
regarded as almost a different species.”

Leyburn’s memories are pushed toward the noteworthy
Leyburn Plan, but this “plan” apparently was nothing of the sort.
McMillan writes:

“He...confesses that, in fact, there never was a comprehen-
sive plan. He did not come to W&L with a grand scheme for
change, but merely a desire to serve as its dean and strengthen
its academic program through broadening the curriculum and
attracting the very best teachers and scholars that could be had.”

As strongly as he felt about the institution’s academic vigor,
Leyburn continues to call the Honor System “one of the
University’s greatest treasures.”

“He expressed his continuing admiration as well as a
conviction that it must always be student-run and informed by
the single sanction of expulsion,” McMillan writes. “Once you
begin to compromise, he said that the system surely would soon
be destroyed.”

It is this faith in the Honor System and the type of person
that W&L produces that encourages Leyburn the most. He says,
if there is anything his former students need remember, it is the
words of his 1947 address on noblesse oblige.

“I suppose I would say again that privilege does obligate,”
Leyburn concluded. “And everyone who has attended Washing-
ton and Lee has enjoyed a great privilege.”

 

 

eae

| = «PAGE 30/ THE

 

GAZETTE *# | —

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BOOKSHEEe

 

 

 

 

Ted Barclay, Liberty Hall
Volunteers: Letters from the
Stonewall Brigade

EDITED BY CHARLES W. TURNER
Professor Emeritus of History
(Rockbridge Publishing Co.)

Professor Turner has gathered to-
gether the letters of ‘Ted Barclay, an
alumnus of Washington College (1861)
and a lieutenant in the Confederate Army,
who relates vividly the excitement and
despair of war in his letters home to his
mother and sister.

Barclay, a native of Lexington, was a
member of Liberty Hall Volunteers, Co. I
of the 4th Virginia Infantry, a group of
soldiers who counted in their number many
students and professors from then-Wash-
ington College.

Barclay’s letters, some written only
hours after a battle, laud the Southern
leaders while they lament the realities of
war—battlefields thick with the dead and
dying, comrades and enemies suffering a
like. The letters also include descriptions
of camp life and the increasing hardships
of the Confederate Army. But there are
also descriptions of lighter moments like
the snowball fight that included a number
of generals.

Barclay writes of his faith in God and
the Confederacy in this way: “I would
like to see our land free from tyrants’
grasp and established as one of the stars

May It Please the Court:
A Biography of
Judge Robert R. Mehrige, Jr.

BY RONALD J. BACIGAL, ’67L

(University Press of America)

Judge Robert R. Mehrige has emerged
as the most prominent example of a new
breed of activist, problem-solving federal
trial judges who aggressively impact upon
American society and its institutions. This
book examines the federal judiciary at its
most direct (and least analyzed) level by
addressing Mehrige’s two decades of
experience in dealing with some of the
most significant and complex legal and
Social issues in our society.

Ted Barclay

in the galaxy of nations, but if I am to fall,
God help me to say, “Thy will be done.’ ”

Barclay, who was captured as a pri-
soner of war in 1864, eventually returned
to Lexington in 1865. He served on the
Washington and Lee board of trustees
from 1885 until his death in 1915.

Turner is a long-time resident of
Lexington, a past president of the
Rockbridge Historical Society, and the
author of 30 books on local history. He
taught history at W&L from 1946 until
his retirement in 1982.

 

Gun Control:
The Continuing Debate

BY DR. D.D. HOOK, *50
(Merril Press)

‘The heated and seemingly endless
debate over gun control in America has
been given a broad view in a new book
from Dr. D.D. Hook, ’50, who proposes a
number of suggested plans, as well as a
number of predicted outcomes.

In a review of the book, Robert E.R.
Huntley, ’50, writes, “Dr. Hook has writ-
ten a compendious work on gun control,
comprehensive yet concise. ‘The book
makes this sometimes arcane subject
readily accessible to those (like this re-
viewer) who have been inclined to push
the matter aside, leaving it to be discussed
only by true believers on one side or the
other. Indeed, true believers will not like
the book or find it especially useful if fur-
thering their crusades. But the rest of us—
presumably the majority—will welcome
this balanced account of a dispute which
has often produced more heat than light.

*“...One should not, however, read
the book primarily for the terms of its pro-
posed armistice. Rather one should expect
to come away from a reading of this volume
with a grasp of the issues which is at least
adequate to permit intelligent discussion
and even criticism of suggested courses of

,’ ”

action, including the author’s.

Hill Rat: Blowing the Lid Off Congress

BY JOHN L. JACKLEY, °77

(Regnery Gateway)

As if Congress needed another thorn in its collective side, Jackley has produced a 377-
page account of what goes on behind the scenes on Capitol Hill. The result, if enough
people get the word, might be enough to get every single incumbent in Congress

removed from office.

Jackley served as press secretary and ghostwriter for Rep. Ronald D. Coleman from
1983 to 1990, and his book is a memoir of his years as a staff aide to Coleman and other
members of Congress since his graduation from college. In a blistering account, Jackley,
naming names and pointing fingers, tells many stories of how things are done on Capitol
Hill. It is not for the faint of heart. In his review of the book, George Archibald of 7he
Washington Times writes, “Lawyers and news reporters could have a field day with the
onslaught of legal discovery that may follow in the wake of the author’s revelations. Mr.
Jackley depicts all former bosses and their associates in Congress as self-aggrandizing,
foul-mouthed, go-for-the-jugular political animals, bereft of moral scruples and with
total contempt for taxpayers and the public trust.”

 

o,
“—

THE GAZETT E/ PAGE 31

|

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wirth earns
Pew Fellowship
at Harvard

avid A. Wirth,
assistant professor of
law at Washington

and Lee, was awarded a Pew
Faculty Fellowship in Inter-
national Affairs this summer.
Wirth, who was one of 24
Fellows selected this year from
a field of over 200 applicants,
attended a two-week seminar
this summer at Harvard
University.

‘The seminar was
sponsored by the Fellowship
and was held at the Kennedy
School of Government at
Harvard.

The Pew fellowhsip was
established “to enhance
education in international
affairs by encouraging
outstanding college and
university faculty to incorpo-
rate the case method of
instruction into their teaching
of graduate and undergradu-
ate courses.” Case teaching

grounds academic instruction
in the concrete reality of
professional experience by
engaging students in highly
interactive class discussion of
specific events.

“The two-week seminar
was an exceptional occasion to
be exposed to exciting new
teaching methods,” Wirth
said. “My students and I
should benefit from the
experience.”

Wirth joined the W&L
law faculty in 1990 where he
teaches environmental,
administrative, and foreign
relations law. His major field
of research is international
environmental law. Prior to
joining the W&L faculty, he
was senior attorney and co-
director of international
programs at the Washington,
D.C., office of the National
Resources Defense Council, a
non-profit public interest law
firm specializing in environ-
mental issues.

Wirth received the A.B. in
chemistry from Princeton, the
A.M. from Harvard, and the
J.D. from Yale.

Visitors from U.Va., New York, and
Common Market join law faculty

School of Law this fall, adding strength and a broad na
of specialties to the law school.

Included in the new appointments are the following: Neill
H. Alford Jr., a visiting professor who has taught at the Naval
War College and the University of Virginia, serving as the Percy
Brown Jr. Professor of Law from 1976-90; Robin Morris Collin, a_
visiting associate professor who has been staff attorney with the
Federal Trade Commission and taught at Tulane, Pepperdine, —
and the McGeorge School of Law; and Elizabeth P. Marsh,a
visiting associate professor who was assistant district attorney for
New York City from 1977-83 and has taught at Bridgeport.

Also among the new faculty appointments are Bernard
Schloh, a visiting professor who has been a member of the legal |
department of the Council of Ministers of the European a
Communities in Brussels, Belgium; Franklin M. Schultz, a |
visiting professor who is past chairman of the ABA’s administra- _
tive law section; and Shen Shiao-Ming, a visiting professor who
has served as a research fellow with the Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences and deputy director of its international law
department since 1988.

Also, Joseph M. Perillo will be at W&L in the spring term as _
the Frances Lewis Scholar-in-Residence. One of the foremost _
authorities on contract law, he was an associate on the Project on —
International Procedure at Columbia, earned a Fulbright Scholar-
ship to the University of Florence from 1960-63 and has taught at
Fordham since 1963.

S= new faculty members joined the faculty at the W&L ‘

3

aa

 

Class of ’95L seems to include all but the butcher, baker, and candlestick-maker

students that arrived at Washington

and Lee University’s School of Law
did not include a butcher, a baker, or a
candlestick-maker, but it might have had
one of everything else.

For instance, how about a journal
editor? Ora bank president? A car-dealer?
A ccustoms agent? Actress? Bellman? Yes,
all are now first-year law students at
Washington and Lee this year.

While the median LSAT score for the
first-years is in the 90th percentile and the
average grade-point average is a robust
3.5, it is the stories behind those impres-
sive academic numbers that make for
such an interesting group.

In addition to the interesting pre-law

|: he incoming class of first-year law

school occupations listed above, the
incoming class also includes an English
teacher in Osaka, Japan; an Army officer
involved with aid to Kurdish refugees on
the Iraqi border; a full-time farmer; a
probation officer for maximum-risk
probationers; and the news director for a
public radio station.

‘The makeup of the Class of 1995L
includes representatives from 33 states
and Russia. Virginia is the highest
represented state with 35 first-years
choosing to remain in-state for law school.
Other largely represented states are
‘Tennessee and West Virginia (six each)
and North Carolina, New York, Ohio, and
South Carolina (five each). Washington
and Lee and the University of Virginia

tied as the largest feeder schools, with

each having 10 former students enrolled

in the Class of ’95L. In all, 80 different

undergraduate institutions are repre-

sented by the new class.
The age range for the first-year class

is from 20 to 43, and more than half spent

one or more years working before

beginning law school. Forty-one percent

of the class is female, and there are 14

minority students in the new class.
Thirty-eight different academic

majors are represented in the first-year

class, with political science and govern-

ment the most popular. But there are also

a number of master’s degree recipients, aS —

well as a drama major, a chemical

engineering major, a Ph.D, and an M.D.

 

f @

PAGE 32/ THE GAZETTE

ae

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

New students,
old students

‘The summer is the
traditional time of year for
alumni chapters to wish their
local students the best and
send them on their way to
W&L with a party. Nineteen
chapters held these types of
events this summer.

In July, the Tri-State
chapter send-off party was
held at the home of Kheng
and Grant McGuire, ’84L. The
Middle Tennessee chapter
held a “country cook-out” for
new and returning students at
the home of Ruth and Sumner
Bouldin, ’82, in Murfreesboro.

The San Diego chapter
was host to alumni and students
from their area at the La Jolla
Beach and Tennis Club at the
12th Annual Sunset Cocktail
Party. Also participating
Were guests from the Phoenix,
Orange County, and Los

 

es

Angeles chapters.

Robin and Alan Corwin,
62, were again hosts at the
Puget Sound chapter’s recep-
tion for new and returning
students, held at the Corwin
home in Olympia, Wash., while
the Winston-Salem chapter
held a barbecue at the home
of Mary and Henry Roemer, ’78.

‘The Class of "96 was
honored with a cookout spon-

 

Hy ay

Pid lL. &

sored by the Jacksonville chap-
ter and held at the home of
Julie and Hal Catlin, °72. ‘The
Northern New Jersey chapter
held a welcome gathering for
new students and parents at
the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Dave Fraser, 62, and daughter
Katharine, 93.

The ‘Tidewater chapter
held a reception for current
students at the home of Mr.

 

 

 

WINSTON-SALE M— From left)Mary and Henry Roemer, 78, and Lucy and
Steve Strawsburg, '76, are all smiles at a freshmen welcome party.

 

 

4 eo

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 33 @

a

 

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA—From left, Archer Frierson, ’73, Garland Overstreet,’67, Steve Yancey, '66, Jack Shuey, '73, John Quinn, '91, Jim Madison, 68, Harold
Quinn, '54, Alan Prater, ’73, ’80L, John Madison, '64, Haller Jackson, ’73, Keith Payne, 74, Gordon Atkins, '82, Don Weir, '72, Ken Hickman, '70.

and Mrs. Peter Agelasto, ’62,
in Virginia Beach, while the
Louisville chapter welcomed
new W&L students at the
home of Margaret and Barry
Barlow, ’77. The Birmingham
welcome event was held at the
home of S. Gates Shaw, ’68,
while the Westchester-Fair-
field chapter held its recep-
tion at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Rardon D. Bevill, ’60.

The Washington, D.C.,
chapter honored freshmen
and first-year law students at
the Perry Gallery, which is
owned by Steve Sanders, *68.
‘The Long Island chapter held
its annual summer reception
for new and returning
students in August, while the
Northwest Louisiana, Mid-
South, and Florida West Coast
chapters also held new stu-
dent welcome events.

Special University guests
attended some of the welcome
receptions, as well. Dennis

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI NEWS

 

 

 

Manning, dean of freshmen
and residence life, was a
special guest at the
Cumberland Valley chapter’s
summer reception and dinner
for new students and their
parents. Rob Mish, 76, assis-
tant director of alumni affairs,
was a special guest at the
Eastern North Carolina chap-
ter welcome event. Matt
Felber, 92, new Alumni Office
staff associate, was a special
guest at the Northeast Ohio
chapter’s reception for new
students. (The Northeast Ohio
chapter is the new name of
the former Cleveland chapter,
reflecting better the geographic
area served by the chapter.)

Sports & games

‘The summer season gave
some W&L alumni chapters
the opportunity to test their
mettle on the links or defend
W&L’s honor on the softball
diamond.

‘The Washington, D.C.,
chapter held its first D.C.
Metro Alumni Golf Tourna-
ment at Bretton Woods Golf
Club in Germantown, Md.
The winning foursome of
George Spears, 82; Anthony
lerardi, ’82; Carter Steuart,
’88; and Mike Stachura, ’86;
posted the winning score of
1 1-under-par.

In softball, the Southern
Ohio chapter squared off
against University of Virginia
alumni in Cincinnati at a July
family picnic. The Atlanta
chapter also held their annual
softball clash with University
of the South alumni in
August.

Also in August, the New
Orleans chapter scored a pair
of victories over rival alumni
from Harvard (3-2) and
Vanderbilt (13-12 in extra
innings). Claude Williams,

 

 

 

NEW ORLEANS—Chapter members pausing at a recent gathering include (from left) Scott Newman, ’87; Bill Lasseigne,
‘89; Chip Brooks, 88; Lester Coe, '88; Brett Mason, "90; and Tim Brennan, ’88. EASTERN N.C.—Taking time out for
pictures at a freshmen welcome party are (from left) Susan Looney; Lewis Hannah, ’74; and Colin Looney, 96. SAN
DIEGO—Annual Sunset cocktail party at La Jolla, attended by Dr. Roger Myer, ’36 and John Myers, 91. EASTERN
N.C.— Welcome party posers are Anna Starling,’96, Laura Howell, 96, Travis Angle, 96, and Mr. and Mrs. Angle.

| @ PAGE34/THE GAZETTE shi il

 

 

> ell

 

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI

NEWS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON, D.C.—Members of the winning team in the Ist D.C. Metro
Chapter Golf Tournament pose with the championship plaque: (from left) Mike
Stachura, '86; Tony lerardi, ’82; George Spears, '82; and Carter Steuart, 88.

 

WASHINGTON, D.C.—The D.C. Metro Golf Tournament team picture:
(front row, from left) Don Swagart, '80; Gordy Witherspoon, '83; Mike
Stachura, ’86; Jim Farrar Jr., '74; Brad Lewis, '81; Charles Driscoll, ’89; (2nd
row) Shorty Murray, ’50; Beau Dudley, ’74,’79L; Stuart Houston, '71, '74L;
Ken Terwilliger, ’80, ’83L; Betsy Houston; (third row) Skip Jacobson, '68; Duffy
Hart: John Sanders, 84; Mike Fogarty, "82; Eric Myers, 82; Carter Steuart,
'88; Tony lerardi, ’82; Chip Arnold, '80; George Spears, '82; George Santos, '8 1;

Brad Love.

91, was a hero for the alumni
Generals, belting a grand slam
in the win over Vanderbilt.

Special speakers,
special parties

There were also a number
of other special W&L get-
togethers during the summer,
including appearances by
W&L faculty members for
luncheon talks. Louis W.
Hodges, director of W&L’s
“Society and the Professions”
ethics program and professor
of religion, spoke at a Rich-
mond chapter luncheon.
Hodges’ topic was “Privacy,
the Press, and Arthur Ashe.”

 

 

 

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 35 ¢@

Bruce H. Herrick, the John F.
Hendon Professor of Econom-
ics, gave a luncheon talk to
the Atlanta chapter on the
subject, “Presidential Politics
and Economic Prospects.”

The Jacksonville chapter
held a special Bon Voyage
Cocktail Reception for Harriet
and Royce Hough, ’59, on the
occasion of their move to
Virginia. ‘The reception was
held at the home of Sally and
Frank Surface, *60.

The Atlanta chapter held
a special commonwealth
alumni party for 1982-92 gra-
duates of Virginia colleges in
August.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI

NEWS

 

 

 

 

4

 

7

 

 

 

 

1991 champion Tom Branch (right) turns over the W&L World Cup Invitational trophy to 1992 champion Greg Wheeler.

 

Wheeler wrests other alumni who made a ‘The weekend featured test at the Lexington Golf and
special trip to Lexington for Friday and Saturday night Country Club (won by Wheeler

W&L World Cup the special golf weekend held stays at W&L’s Gaines Hall, a in a preview of things to come)

from Branch on July 10-12. Friday evening putting con- and golf Saturday and Sunday

Youth was served at the
1992 Washington and Lee
University World Cup
Invitational golf tournament,
but just barely.

Greg Wheeler, ’86, of
Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.,
put together two solid rounds
on the Cascades and Lower
Cascades courses at The
Homestead, in Hot Springs,
Va., and then held on fora
three-stroke victory over
defending champion Tom
Branch, °58, ’60L, of Atlanta.
‘The annual event is in its
second year of bringing
together W&L golf enthusi-
asts from across the country.
This year’s tournament
featured 26 players and
included participants in the
Alumni College, as well as

 

1992 W&L World Cup Invitational participants at The Homestead: Ist row
(from left): Virginia Miller; Stuart Houston, '71,'’74L; Betsy Houston; Tom
Kern, 60; Rob Fure; John Del Mixon, '85; Marc Monyek, '85. 2nd row: Rosalie
Marable, Jay Turner, '67, ’°71L; Lance Tarrance, '63; Ralph Baucum, ’58; Jim
Rich, '54; Gary Campbell, 88. Back row: Gene Marable, '44, ’48L; Greg
Wheeler, '86; Charlie McCormick, '58, '60L; Tom Branch, ’58, ’60L; Vernon
Holleman, ’58; Gordon Miller, '45; Cal East, '43.

 

 

andl “ PAGE 36/ THE GAZETTE ¢ ys

at the prestigious Homestead
courses.

Wheeler, a two-time All-
Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference golfer, shot a 78 on
Saturday on the Lower Cas-
cades course and bettered that
with a 77 on Sunday on the
Cascades for a 155 total.
Branch dug himself a hole
with an 84 on Saturday, but
nearly climbed all the way out
of it with a final-round 74.

Virginia Miller, wife of L.
Gordon Miller Jr., °45, was the
top women’s finisher.

Plans for the 1993 W&L
World Cup Invitational, which
will include an expanded pro-
gram, are already underway.
Interested individuals are
urged to contact the Alumni
Office for more information.

 

 

 

. 1 WASHINGTON «AND*LEE*UNIVERSITY «ALUMNI
2 FRANK M.

CLASS NOTES

POLLOCK lives in Exeter,
He recently turned

England
92. Pollock spends his sum-
mers traveling around Eng-
land and france.

DR. LUTHER J. ROB-
ERTS is retired and living
in Columbus, Ga., where he
works part time with the
State Public Department.

CHARLES A. SISSON re-
cently turned 75. He is en-
joying a relatively sedentary

 

retirement in Lancaster, S.C.

 

i.
MACKALL R.

BRUIN J recently turned
90. He lives in Draper, Va.

EMMETT W. Mac-
CORKLE JR. lives with his
wife, Nellie, at The Sequoias,

a retirement home in Portola
Valley, Calif. He recently
showed the Confederate Flag

at the Civil War Roundtable
of the Peninsula and gave an
account of Hunter’s Raid on
Lexington in 1864. Mac-
Corkle based his account pri-
marily on his father’s recol-
lections of Rockbridge Coun-
ty during the Civil War and

 

Alumni Office now ready to take just the fax

The Washington and Lee Alumni Office has added a facsimile machine to make it easier
for alumni to reach the home office. Alumni now will have the convenience of being
able to send class notes announcements, newspaper clippings, letters to the editor of the
alumni magazine, as well as any other types of correspondence through the fax machine.
The alumni office fax will be available 24 hours a day.

“We always want alumni to feel close to the University, and I think the fax machine
provides both alumni and us here in the office a greater opportunity to stay up to date
with each other,” said James D. Farrar Jr., °74, director of alumni affairs.

The number of the new fax machine is (703) 463-8473. Those with questions about the
fax should contact the alumni office at 463-8464.

VERNON T. STRICK-
LER has recovered from
prostate cancer after a series
of radiation treatments. He
is working and walks two
miles a day. He lives in
Hampton, Va.

Law: LEWIS W. MARTIN
(see °35).

3 9 JOHN B.

BEECHER JR. is retired
and living in Punta Gorda,
Fla., where he stays active
by boating on occasion and

 

 

 

Lee’s presidency.

 

playing a little golf.

 

"21
WINSON C. BARKER spends the

summer with his wife in the mountains of West
Virginia. He lives the other months in Wise, Va.

THOMAS P. STEARNS recently celebrated his
87th birthday and reports that he is “aging rapidly.”
Stearns spent 35 years teaching in Connecticut, first
at the Salisbury School and later at the Hotchkiss
School. Stearns lives in Forest Hill, Md.

ALFRED F. TAYLOR and his wife, Mary Bell,
celebrated their 58th wedding anniversary in Janu-
ary. He is retired and living in Grosse Pointe, Mich.
The couple has been busy traveling, taking trips to
California and Hawaii in the past year.

RABBI DAVID H. WICE is retired and living in
Philadelphia. He is listed in Who’s Who in the East,
Who's Who in World Jewry, and Who’s Who in the World,
1980-81 edition.

"29
CAPT. WALTER N. PHARR earned

the Veteran of Foreign Wars of the United States of
America Medal for having commanded the most air
transport flights across the Atlantic Ocean during
World War II. He commanded 124 flights.

31
JOHN W. DEVINE JR. is an assistant

Professor of plastic and reconstructive surgery at
the University of Miami (Fla.) and the chief of
plastic surgery at the Veterans Administration Hos-
pital. He and his wife live in Miami.

32
RICHARD H. RUFF keeps busy dur-

ing his retirement by working with Little League
baseball, the Lions Club, St. Luke’s Episcopal
Church, the Welch Area Chamber of Commerce,
and the sports programs at Mt. View High School in
his hometown of Welch, W.Va. He reports that
traveling has taken him to all 50 U.S. States.

C. ROBERT KAPLAN is retired and

living in Boca Raton, Fla. He recently shot one less
than his age on a par-72 golf course.

NORMAN S. FITZHUGH JR. and

his wife, Betty, are retired. ‘They make their home
in Charleston, W.Va.

JOHN E. FRIEND, of Washington, N.C., is chair-
man of his club’s golf committee and involved in
the U.S.G.A. Carolinas Golf Association. Friend
reports that he is trying to shoot his age again.

LEWIS W. MARTIN is retired and living in Hilton
Head Island, S.C.

GILBERT R. SWINK JR. is retired and lives with
his wife, Esther, in Norfolk, Va. He enjoys golf and
fishing, but has given up hunting.

Law: WILLIAM W. FOWLKES is an attorney in
San Antonio, Texas. He is looking forward to
seeing the new Kappa Sigma house and meeting
the new house mother.

‘St
HERMAN S. LEVINE is retired and

living in Daytona Beach, Fla. He reports that he
still rides his motorcycle every day, but has “given
up wrestling.”

Law: DAVID R. DILLON is retired and living in
Martinsburg, W.Va. He has lived in his home, Rural
Hill, for 49 years.

DR. THOMAS A. MALLOY JR. is

professor emeritus of sociology at Ferris State Uni-
versity in Big Rapids, Mich.

JOHN E. NEILL reports he is being “run ragged”
as program chairman for the local Kiwanis Club.

WARREN H. EDWARDS has retired from the
bench for the third time, and he reports that this
time “it’s permanent.” He is looking forward to his
55th and 60th class reunions.

JOHN B. FURRand his wife, Jean, live in Baton
Rouge, La. Among his retirement activities are
singing bass in the University Presbyterian Church
choir and teaching great books to fifth-graders.

WALLER C. HARDY JR. has three grandchildren
and lives in Vienna, W.Va.

RALPH A. HAUSRATH lives with his wife in
upstate New York, where he reports that they
watch deer, feed birds, shovel snow, mow the grass,
plant vegetables, and enjoy the view from their
hillside. He says he does miss sailing, a hobby from
their time in Long Island.

GARRET HIERS JR. recently scored his first
eagle on a golf course, on a par-5 hole. In addition
to golfing, Hiers swims and surfs to keep active. He
lives in Daytona Beach, Fla.

JOHN R. KATELEY lives in Lexington, Va., and
is active in the Rockbridge alumni chapter’s “On
the Shoulders of Giants” committee.

JAMESC. PAERA and wife, Dorothea, are “blessed
with good health” and live in Springfield, Va.

GEORGE W. PARSONS JR. (see DR. JAMES S.
PARSONS, ’43).

HUGH R. THOMPSON JR. recently celebrated
his 50th anniversary with his wife, Elizabeth Curtis

Dickerson. The couple has three daughters and
five grandchildren and lives in Richmond, Va.

Law: EDGAR L. SMITH practices law with his
daughter in Lewisburg, W.Va.

ROBERT L. GAYLE is a farmer in

Stafford County, Va.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 37

JOHN W. JOHNSTON (see DR. JAMES S. PAR-
SONS, *43).

"41
JAMES R. McCONNELLhas retired

from York International, although he still assists the
company on some projects. He lives in Bel Air, Md.

JOHN W. WEATHERS JR. is retired and living in
Banner Elk, N.C. He is involved in a community
effort to provide area residents with meeting and
recreation facilities.

43
DR. JAMES S. PARSONS and his

wife, Eleanor, were the beneficiaries of a 40th
anniversary party thrown for them at the W&L
Alumni House by their children in May. Among
those in attendence at the celebration were class-
mates C. WESTBROOK BARRITT and LEWIS
TYREE JR., as well as, JOHN R. KATELEY, ’39;
GEORGE W. PARSONS JR., ’39; JOHN W.
JOHNSTON, °40; and BENJAMIN L.
CHAPMAN, ’64.

"44
LEON HARRIS JR. is retiring from a

teaching position at Clarendon Hall in Summerton,
S.C. He lives in Mt. Pleasant, S.C.

RICHARD L. HEARD works for the U.S. Depart-
ment of Labor but is looking forward to retirement.
He lives in Arlington, Texas.

WILLIAM M. MANGER recently received the
Mayo Foundation Dinstinguished Alumnus Award
and was elected to the Board of Visitors of Boston
University School of Medicine.

46
DAVID P. HAUSEMAN is retired and

living in “beautiful central Florida,” where he en-
joys golf, bridge, and his 10 grandchildren.

DR. CLIFFORD SPEROW was recently inducted
into the Shepherd College (W.Va.) Athletic Hall of
Fame. As the college’s first inductee as a “contribu-
tor,” Sperow volunteered his services for more than
30 years as the acting team physician and orthope-
dic surgeon for Shepherd’s athletic program.

"AS
ANDREW H. McCUTCHEON will

join the Public Relations Council Inc. in Rich-
mond, Va., as a senior consultant. He currently
serves as vice chairman of the board of the Virginia
State Library and Archives and is a member of the
Governor’s Council on Drug and Alcohol Abuse.
McCutcheon is also active as a trustee of St.
Matthew’s Episcopal Church in Richmond.

CHARLES R. McDOWELL JR. was inducted
into the Society of Professional Journalists’ Hall of
Fame. Unfortunately, McDowell missed the cer-
emony because heavy storms trapped him in the
Bolivian jungles where he was visiting his son.

ANDREW C. McFALL JR. has retired from the
insurance business. He lives in St. Petersburg, Fla.

Law: THE HON. HOWARD M. FENDER and
his wife, Virginia, attended his 50th reunion at the
U.S. Military Academy at West Point in May. He is
currently presiding over a county criminal court,

38 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

after retiring as Chief Justice of the Second Court of
Appeals. He lives in Fort Worth, Texas.

THE REV. JAMES T. MAGRUDER

is retiring after 40 years with the Presbyterian Church
to live in Montreat, N.C.

C. VICTOR MOORE JR. is retired and living in
Moraga, Calif., with his wife, Ann. Moore contin-
ues to do some consulting in the field of reservoir
engineering and geology.

‘SO
RODOLPH B. DAVENPORT III re-

ceived the McCallie School Distinguished Alum-
nus Award for 1991. Davenport, a resident of Look-
out Mountain, Tenn., was chairman of The Krystal
Company from 1973 to 1990. He helped expand
Krystal into one of the most popular fast-food res-
taurant chains in the Southeast. He is also very
involved in the civic activities of Chattanooga,
Tenn., especially through his work with the Allied
Arts of Chattanooga.

ROBERT S. DILLON recently retired from the
foreign service and became president of AMID-
EAST, a Washington-based, non-profit education
and training organization in the Middle East. Dillon
previously was Ambassador to Lebanon and United
Nations Assistant Secretary General.

OLIVER M. MENDELL chaired a USO lun-
cheon for Barbara Bush on May 14 at the Plaza
Hotel in New York City. Among the nearly 600
USO supporters in attendence was SOL WACHT-
LER, ’51, ’52L, chief judge of the New York State
Court of Appeals.

Law: LEON HARRIS JR. (see °44).

at
DONALD R. TAYLOR has retired as

director of Gunston Hall, the Potomac River plan-
tation of George Mason. Taylorand his wife, Johanna,
will return to their home in New Bern, N.C.

THE HON. SOL WACHTLER (see OLIVER M.
MENDEL, ’50).

RICHARD E. WHITSON JR. has retired from the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce and spends his time
working and cruising on his boat. He is active in the
U.S. Power Squadron on the local and district level,
and enjoys traveling and just returned from Alaska.

Oe
THOMAS G. GARDNER reports

that his son graduated from high school in June.
Gardner keeps busy with motorcycling, tennis, ca-
noeing, and golf.

ROBERT W. LUNDY has retired from Reynolds
Aluminum and formed R&L Packaging Inc., with
principal offices in Delray Beach, Fla.

EDWIN STREULI JR. reports that he enjoyed
attending his 40th reunion.

PAUL D. WEILL is retired and living in Weatogue,
Conn. He still does some consulting work and has
traveled to Hong Kong and the Caribbean.

Law: THE HON. SOL WACHTLER (see
OLIVER M. MENDEL, ’50).

a
WESLEY E. ABRAMS tece

tired from teaching and coaching at JohnF. Kennedy
High School in Montgomery County, Md.

DR. ALEXANDER DeVOLPI has been elected _
fellow of the American Physical Society. DeVolpiis z

manager for physics and engineering in the
control program atthe U.S. DepartmentofEn

ity for development of technology and Policy op-

tions for nuclear, chemical, and conventional arms _
control and treaty verification. He lives in 4

Bolingbrook, IIl.

JOHN D. HEARD has left Elf Aquitaine, a French | oe
oil company, and formed Star Chevrolet-Buick Inc. | r

in Terrell, Texas.

WILLIAM A. HOCKETT JR. is president of 4
Hockett Associates, an executive search firm, He
lives in Los Altos, Calif., and has 11 grandchildren, _

SAMUEL K. PATTON serves as a town super- _
visor in East Fishkill, N.Y., and teaches parttimeat _
Marist College in Poughkeepsie. Patton alsoserves
on the Board of Trustees of the Mid-Hudson Li- _
brary System, which serves more than 60 librariesin ei

southeastern New York.

CARL F.RUMPP JR. isasales manager at the John

Henry Division of Dawson International. He has __

three sons, Carl, Stephen, and Gary, and two grand-
children. He and his wife, Patricia, make their
home in Gladwyne, Pa.

CHARLES H. SIPPLE II] is retired and living in ;

Savannah, Ga.

RODNEY F. STOCK JR. served as assistant ser-
geant-at-arms and keeper of the ballot box at the
county Republican Convention in Washoe County
in Reno, Nev.

BENJAMIN P. WALDEN conducts thorough-
bred auctions at the Del Mar, Calif., Satellite Wa-
gering Facility. He also goes sailing and rides horses.

Law: ROBERT L. BANSE was recently named Of
Counsel to the law firm of Drinker Biddle & Reath.
He will work in the firm’s Philadelphia and
Princeton, N.J., offices. Banse previously worked
as senior vice president and general counsel of
Merck & Co.

Law: CLYDE H. BLOEMKER is retired and
living in Highland, III.

O4
ERNEST R. EANES JR. is owner and

president of Warren Trucking Co. Inc., in
Martinsville, Va. He is also an active member and
deacon of Martinsville Christian Fellowship. Eanes
also serves as a member of the advisory board for
Good News Mission, a prison ministry; sponsor of
16 Christian ministries; and chairman of Family
Life Services. He also chairs The Center, a Chris-
tian outreach effort designed to strengthen youth
and families by making available a Community
Center with information and services to meet spifi-
tual, physical, recreational, and educational needs.
Eanes is the acting administrator for Team
Ministries, a missionary outreach to Africa, a mem-
ber of the Executive Council for Transport for
Christ, an international ministry. He plays golf in
his spare time.

ntly re- Z

Argonne National Laboratory. He has responsibil. |

    

a . ¥
tr Ky , + bel”. > be : F. ‘
Vets i " a. bt; ek bab Os

, , ee
yn Seg Ae
a eT

‘f

:

c ite

see

 

ao ak
Ce
- ce
ae es ,
en" hr

Banking on Washington and Lee

While walking by a local bank recently, I could not help but
notice the rates of return being paid on various saving accounts and
certificates of deposit. Although I am certain that you, too, have
experienced the same amazement I have, I thought I would list these
rates for shock value:

Passbook Savings—3 .58 percent
1-Year CD—3.65 percent
5-Year CD—5.53 percent

By investing in the future of Washington and Lee University
through a type of planned gift, you can increase your income signifi-

cantly above these rates, receive substantial immediate income tax
benefits in the form of a charitable deduction, and remove these cash
assets from your taxable estate, thus reducing it for the purposes of
calculating any estate tax that might come due upon your death.

Although the charitable gift annuity is not a new concept,
particularly if you have been reading these columns, it would seem to
be an ideal arrangement for maximizing income and tax benefits at a
time when it is difficult to maintain certain income levels from cash-
related investments.

For example, if you and your spouse are both age 70, the
University would pay to you for the remainder of your lifetimes a fixed
annuity equivalent to 7.1 percent of the initial value of your gifts
through this simple contractual arrangement. The following illustration
Summarizes the many advantages that would accrue:

70/70
$50,000
7.1%
$3,550
$1,597
$17,233
8.5%

Ages of Donors

Cash Gift to W&L

Annuity Rate

Fixed Annual Income (for life)
Tax-Free Portion of Income
Charitable Income Tax Deduction
Effective Rate of Return

By receiving a sizable portion of your income tax free, you more
than double the rate of return from current passbook savings accounts.
In addition, the IRS will permit you to deduct up to 50 percent of your
adjusted gross income to absorb the $17,233 charitable deduction. Plus,
any of the excess amount will be eligible for carryover into the next five
tax years. W&L’s promise to pay you and your spouse a life income is
guaranteed by our record of fiscal stewardship and by our full endow-
ment resources.

Bear in mind, however, that the charitable gift annuity represents
a gift and as such is an irrevocable arrangement. With a gift of this size,
you would be able to make a truly impressive impact on the future of
the University. Indeed, it would permit you to establish an endowed
scholarship from which all subsequent generations of students will one
day benefit.

The next time you contemplate renewing a certificate of deposit,
please give some thought to Washington and Lee and this arrangement.
I should be delighted to help you learn more about this means of
investing in our University.

David R. Long
Director of Planned Giving

 

College, Cambridge University. Shepherd re-
searched the connection between Sir Edward Coke
and Roger Williams.

JERE H. WILLIAMS is scout executive of the
Jersey Shore Council of the Boy Scouts of America,
headquartered in Toms River, N.].

60
CHARLES S. CHAMBERLIN is em-

ployed with the Connecticut Mutual Life Insur-
ance Co. in real estate investments. He lives in
Simsbury, Conn.

SANDY C. MARKS JR. is a member of the faculty
at the University of Massachusett’s Medical School
in Worcester, where he serves as a professor of cell
biology and radiology. Marks is the American
editor of the journal Clinical Anatomy and president
of the American Association of Clinical Anatomists.

61
LT. COL. CLINTON L. ANDER-

SON is an assistant administrator for the Military
Installation Voluntary Education Review (MIVER)
program in Washington, D.C. Anderson lives in
Lexington, Va.

STEPHEN P. DEGENHARDT works for
Westvaco in Springfield, Mass., where he keeps an
apartment and commutes back and forth from
Noblesville, Ind., where his family has moved.

Law: W. C. MILLER (see ’58).
Law: ROBERT E. SHEPHERD JR. (see °59).

62
DR. STEPHEN R. CHERNAY con-

tinues to practice pediatrics in Fishkill, N.Y. He
also raises and races thoroughbred horses, three of
which have won this year.

ALAN M. CORWIN recently won the Human
Relations Award of the North Thurston School
District. He lives in Olympia, Wash.

CHARLES W. VIA has been named director of
systems development for information services of
Philip Morris in Richmond, Va.

63
DR. STEPHEN E. GUILD has an-

nounced the second edition printing of two of his
books published by John Wiley & Sons, Microsoft
Word For Windows: A Self-Teaching Guide and Ami
Pro 2: A Self-Teaching Guide.

‘THOMAS P. McDAVID will be moving with his
wife, Sallie, to Easton, Md., where he will become
president andCEOof Easton Bank & TrustCo., anew
commercial bank. McDavid looks forward to living
only four minutes away from where his boat is
moored.

64
BRICE R. GAMBER is senior vice

president of Chubb Group of Insurance Cos. He is
also regional manager for Chubb in Philadelphia.

FREDERICK J. KRALL has started a new con-
sulting company called Strategic Management Re-
sources, which specializes in strategic problem solv-

40 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ing. He and his wife, Sue, have two daughters, Jen,
20, and Kate, 16, and live in Summit, N.J.

‘TAIN P. TOMPKINS has been appointed deputy
chief of mission to the American Embassy in Barba-
dos-West Indies.

65
T. PATTON ADAMS IV was recently

reappointed for a fourth term as the civilian aide to
the Secretary of the Army for the state of South
Carolina. Currently president of Adams, Quacken-
bush, Herring, & Stuart, P.A., Adams lives in Co-
lumbia with his wife and three sons.

JEFFREY G. CONRAD has been named chief
operating officer of the new publishing company,
Chambers, Kingfisher & Graham, of New York
City, which publishes juvenile non-fiction, adult
reference, activity, and story books. Conrad lives
with his wife, Missy, and two children, David and
Grace in Norwalk, Conn.

DR. WILLIAM P. LANCASTER JR. is associate
for mission for Foothills Presbytery in Greenville,
S.C. He edits the Presbytery’s newspaper and
works with new church development, stewardship
resourcing, and small churches.

WOODWARD D. OPENO is active in the North-
ern New England Chapter of the Society for Indus-
trial Archeology and recently completed his history
of tugboats on the Piscataqua River. He spent his
Sundays, this past winter, racing his Cape Cod
Frosty Sailboat. He lives in Somersworth, N.H.

66
KENNETH D. CARO, president of

Pinnacle Marketing, was recently interviewed on
ESPN, and as a result of the interview, he was
contacted by former schoolmate RICHARD
(DICK) ROBINSON, ’68, who saw the broadcast.
The two had not heard from each other in 25 years.

MAURICE R. FLIESS, editor of Presstime Maga-
zine, has been named developmental program di-
rector of The Freedom Forum Newseum. The
Newseum is being developed at the Freedom Fo-
rum World Center as a unique interactive museum
of news, newspapering, and press freedoms.

MICHAEL E. LAWRENCE is chief financial of-
ficer at Sea Pines Co. Inc., in Hilton Head Island,
S.C. His daughter, Catherine, was accepted early
decision by W&L and will be amember of the Class
of 1996.

67
DR. CHRISTOPHER F. (KIP)

ARMSTRONG spent three weeks in Austria this
summer teaching a course to American students on
“The Art, Architecture, and History of Salzburg.”
Armstrong also toured Prague and eastern Europe.

JAMES D. AWAD has formed Awad & Associates,
an asset management firm that caters to individual
and retirement plans. He lives in New York City.

JEFFREY B. GAYNER has been named the direc-
tor of the Heritage Foundation’s new Moscow of-
fice, where his efforts will involve assisting the new
Russian state in its transition from socialism to
democratic capitalism. Gayner currently serves in
Washington, D.C., as the Heritage Foundation’s
Counselor of International Affairs.

 
    
  
 
 
  

WILLIAMS. MILLER II isa corporate communj- 4

cations strategist whose client list includes
Cola, Miller Brewing, Microsoft, and 7-Eleven,
Miller is best known for his role as advertis;

consultant to Michael Dukakis’ 1988 Presidential] —
campaign. Miller and his wife, Denise, live with ;

their two sons in New Canaan, Conn.

MICHAEL K. NATION is chief of staff ar_

Children’s Hospital in St. Paul, Minn. He was

recently named the Community Clinical Scholar by
the University of Minnesota Departmentof Pediat.
rics. He lives with his wife and two daughters, Anna, —

3, and Sarah, 1, in St. Paul.

68
ROBERT C. GASTROCK is chief of —

safety for the Alaska Air National Guard in Anchor. _

age, Alaska.

JON T. HULSIZER is the AT&T General Busj- _
ness Systems product manager of the Definity —
Communications Systems. He is active in the Gir] _
Scouts with his wife, Michelle, and three daugh- |

ters, Jocelyn, Gillian, and Paige.

DAVID B. LONG was recently elected to the a
board of trustees of the Halton W. Sumners Foun- —

dation. Long practices law in Tyler, Texas.

STEVEN C. MEIXNER is the local chief of JMB
Realty Corp.’s development arm, JMB/Urban De-
velopment Co. Currently, he is spending most of
his time securing entitlements for a two-million
square-foot commercial project that JMB hopes to _
build in Woodland Hills, Calif. Meixner lives in _

Marina Del Ray, Calif.

RICHARD (DICK) ROBINSON (see KEN- _

NETH D. CARO, ’66).
GUY M. TOWNLEY is CEO of Townley’s Dairy

and serves as treasurer of the board of directors of _

Willowview Hospital in Oklahoma City.

9 69 3
DR. LEONARD A. BLANCHARD  —

has had several poems published recently. His
poem “A Teleology of Pain” won first place inthe _

Snake Nation Review's annual spring poetry contest.

A second poem “Entertaining Death” has won

second place in Creative Endeavors’ fourth annual
summer poetry contest and will be published in the
anthology, Summer Breeze.

THE HON. E. ROBERT GIAMMITTORIO has
been appointed as judge of the General District
Court in Alexandria, Va. He is a partner in
Giammittorio & O’Brien and has acted as a substi-
tute judge since 1982. Giammittorio lives with his
wife and two children in Alexandria.

RAY V. HARTWELL III is heading up the new
fledgling office of the law firm Hunton & Williams
in Brussels, Belgium.

COL. RALPH E. PEARCY II recently received
the rank of colonel. He serves as chief of staff at the
Marine Corps Recruit Depot in San Diego.

70
STUART C. FAUBER recently com-

pleted the Reserve Officer Strategy and Policy
Course, which analyzes the relationship between
foreign policy and military force. Fauber lives in
Lynchburg, Va.

4

oo

 

HARRY H. HILL III was awarded a master of
divinity degree fromthe Virginia Theological Semi-
nary on May 14, 1992. He lives in Alexandria, Va.

Law: RICHARD P. LASKO is the senior vice
resident and deputy general counsel for the law
firm of Johnson & Higgins in New York City.

Law: MARVIN G. RIGNEY is retired from the
U.S. Army Judge Advocate Generals Corps. Heand
his wife, Dawn, have five children, Marcia, 21,
Laura, 19, John, 16, Julian, 10, and Alex, 6, and live
in Fairfax, Va.

71

STEPHEN D. ROSENTHAL has
been promoted to chief deputy attorney general
under Mary Sue Terry in Virginia.

CALVERT S. WHITEHURST works as a public
affairs manager in the Washington, D.C., office of
Textron Inc. He spent two weeks vacationing in
England in August.

BRADFIELD F. WRIGHT lives with his wife,
Lois, and three children, Mary Ellen, 17, Philip, 13,
and Bradfield, 9, in Houston.

2
WILLIAM J. MODICA recently re-

turned from two weeks in Germany, where he
visited the Hartz Mountains and Berlin. He is
currently a real estate broker with Peery & Flora
Ltd. in Roanoke, Va.

MERYL D. MOORE is an attorney with Jones,
Blechman, Woltz & Kelly, in Newport News, Va.

713
LAWRENCE E. EVANS JR. was

named partner with the firm of Herzog, Crebs &
McGhee in St. Louis. Evans specializes in intellec-
tual property law.

PETER B. HOWE isin sales and account manage-
ment for Engledow Inc., the largest provider of
horticultural services in Indiana. He and his wife,
Nancy, and sons, Chris, 5, and Matthew, 3, make
their home in Indianapolis.

MICHAEL C. SCHAEFFER is beginning his 13th
year as head soccer coach at Pembroke State Uni-
versity (N.C.). Pembroke State will be joining a
new NCAA Division II Conference, the Peach Belt
Athletic Conference.

Law: LAWRENCE G. COHEN has been ap-
pointed as General Counsel, Southeast Asia, for
Exxon Corp.’s International Division. He and his
family moved to Singapore in August.

Law: THE HON E. ROBERT GIAMMITTORIO
(see °67).

Law: JOHN W. HAMMOND is a representative
with the Georgia General Assembly. He is also a
Partner in the law firm of Hammond & Litchfield.

Law: THEODORE H. RITTER has been ap-
pointed chairman of the New Jersey Supreme Court
Board on Trial Attorney Certification. He also is
Serving a one-year term as chairman of the Cumber-
land County Bar Association Judicial and County
Prosecutor Appointments Committee. He and his
wife, Jean, live in Bridgeton, N.J., with their chil-
dren Matthew, 15, and Carin, 13.

 

 

 

Judge Johnny Morrison

es

: ie ETE

Judging by the books

MORRISON STRESSES SCHOOLWORK IN SENTENCE

Portsmouth, Va., Circuit Judge
Johnny E. Morrison, ’74, °77L, made
headlines in July when he handed
down one of the more unusual sen-
tences for a convicted drug dealer.

Morrison, who formerly served as
chief prosecuting attorney in Ports-
mouth and was re-elected twice to the
post before becomingacircuit judge in
1990, stressed education in handing
down a 40-year suspended sentence
to Mary Watson, according to the As-
sociated Press.

Watson was part of a trio caught
with more than $25,000 worth of drugs
in one of the biggest cocaine busts
ever in Portsmouth.

After conceding that it was more
drugs than he had everseen in his prior
career as a prosecutor, Morrison gave
the woman the suspended sentence,
with the following stipulation: Watson
must make sure her four children stay
in school with at least a C average.

Instead of going to jail, Watson
will spend the next 15 years on proba-
tion with the condition that she be
responsible for keeping her children

in good academic standing. If her chil-
dren fail to maintain that minimum
average, Watson could end up in jail.

“I did what I thought was fair,”
Morrison told the Associated Press.

Morrison, a Portsmouth native, has
voiced his strong support of education
before. In a recent profile ina W&L
publication, he mentioned the impor-
tance of working hard in school and the
benefits that hard work can bring.

Young people, he said, “are told
that the college years are the best four
years of their lives. Sometimes that’s
true. But when I talk to high school
students, I tell them, “You should also
treat college like an investment. It’s
not all wine and roses. If you work
hard, then you will be able to enjoy the
wine and roses, too.’ ”

This latest decision shows that
Morrison feels the hard work begins
well before the college years, and that
itinvolves a healthy bit of parenting, as
well. If his sentence holds true, it
seems plausible that Watson’s chil-
dren won’t be the only ones getting an
education.

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 41

 

Law: PHILIP J. WASILAUSKY of Baldwin, N.Y.,
reports that his daughter, Ellen, will be a member
of the W&L Class of 1996 as a Gaines scholar.

"14
‘THOMAS K. ANGELILLO has been

named president and chief executive officer of
Oxmoor House Inc., a book-publishing division of
Southern Progress. Oxmoor House, based in Bir-
mingham, Ala., is the largest regional magazine and
book publisher in the country.

GEOFFREY N. NOLAN is president of the mort-
gage banking firm of Wilson & Nolan Southeast
Inc. Other W&L alumni in the firm are CHARLES
BERKELY WILSON II, ’75, HARRY ELLIS
HALL, ’79, and DAVID CHRISTOPHER
TYLER, ’82. Nolan and his wife, Claire, have a
daughter, Streeter Nichol, and live in Atlanta.

DAVID J. TURK is a teacher in the Salem (Va.)
City Schools and coaches volleyball for Salem High
School and Hollins College. He and his wife,
Renee, have three children, Michael David, 5,
Daniel Joseph, 3, and Rachel Kaitlyn, 6 months.
The family lives in Troutville, Va.

HANNES F. VAN WAGENBERG has joined T.
Rowe Price & Associates in Baltimore.

AMOS A. WORKMAN has finished his second
year at Erskine Seminary and is a candidate for
ministry in the Presbyterian Church, U.S.A. He
remains a partner in the law firm of Butler, Means,
Evins & Browne, in Spartanburg, S.C., where he
practices law on an abbreviated basis.

Law: HARRY H. HILL III (see °70).

Law: CHARLES S. McNULTY III is a judge in
the Juvenile and Domestic Relations District Court,
in the 26th Judicial District in Harrisonburg, Va.

Law: GREGORYN.STILLMAN has been named
managing partner of Hunton & Williams Norfolk/
Virginia Beach offices. Stillman also serves as vice
president and counsel to the Virginia Opera Asso-
ciation and on the boards of the Greater Norfolk
Corp. and the Virginia Beach Foundation.

co
DAVIDA. ESTES is manager of regu-

latory projects for Consolidated Natural Gas Co. in
Pittsburgh.

THAD GRUNDY JR. has joined the law firm of
Skin, Grump, Haver & Feld in Washington, D.C.
He lives in Arlington, Va., with his wife, son, and
daughter.

CHARLES B. WILSON II (see GEOFFREY N.
NOLAN, ’74).

Law: RAY V. HARTWELL (see ’69).

"16
ROBERT M. BALLENGER has been

named a recipient of Lehigh University’s 1991-92
Arthur E. Humphrey Teaching Assistant Award.
Ballenger, who is pursuing a doctoral degree in
management and information systems, was one of
three teaching assistants selected for the award out
of more than 130 nominees.

42 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

DAVID K. EUBANK works in investment securi-
ties with Legg Mason. He lives with his wife,
Anjela, and daughter, Alessandra, in Fredericksburg,
Va.

ISAAC A. FISHER JR. recently moved to Hebron,
Maine, with his wife and two children, Margaret
and Iain.

M. REED MORGAN is associate director of the
San Diego Community Foundation. He directs the
community development program.

ROBERT B. ORKIN is owner of a company bear-
ing his name, which invests in real estate. Robert B.
Orkin Interests Inc. negotiates leases and lease
renewals for tenants, provides construction man-
agement of tenant improvements, and advises loan
workouts and partnership agreements, in addition
to buying land and properties.

RUSHTON E. PATTERSON Jr. has a private
practice in obstetrics and gynecology in Memphis,
Tenn.

ROBERT J. SMITH JR. is president of Bob’s
Cameras Inc. and is on the board of directors for the
Richmond (Va.) Retail Merchants’ Association and
the Richmond Forum. Smith is active in the River
Road Church and serves as a chaplain in the 12th
Virginia Infantry, Company B, a historical reenact-
ment group. He lives with his wife and two sons in
Henrico County.

RICHARD W. VIESER is a regional manager of
Newark First Fidelity Bank. He also is chairman of
the Plaid House, a home for troubled teenagers.
Vieser is planning a vacation to Alaska. He lives in
Baskingridge, N.]J.

Law: STEPHEN D. McGRAW has joined the law
firm of Kerr, Russell, & Weber in Detroit. McGraw
is a partner who concentrates on litigation and
general business law.

Law: STEPHEN D. ROSENTHAL (see ’71).

Law: DANIEL J. SAUL has been the attorney and
coach of the Atlantic City (N.J.) High School Mock
Trial team for the past four years. The team won
the 1991-92 New Jersey State Championship, and
finished sixth in the National Championships held
in May.

77
PAUL W. CELLA recently opened his

own law practice in Powhatan, Va.

WILLIAM J. COPLE III has been appointed for
another term to the executive board of the National
Capital Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America.
Cople is an attorney with the Washington, D.C.,
office of the Atlanta law firm of King & Spalding.
He lives in Alexandria, Va., with his wife, Bethanne,
and their two daughters.

LOUIS B. HACKERMAN recently joined Cray
Research, the leading manufacturer of super-
computers in the United States, as a senior systems
analyst in the Calverton, Md., sales office.

JOHN L. JACKLEY has authored a new book, Hi//
Rat: Blowing The Lid Off Congress [see “Bookshelf” }.
He currently lives in Portland, Ore.

WALTER H. KANSTEINER III is deputy press
secretary for the Bush Administration. He works

closely with Marlin Fitzwaterand the national Press
corps.

LEE M. KENNEDY is the director of Public rela-
tions at Baltimore County General Hospital in
Randallstown, Md.

DAVID R. MESCHUTT recently received the
Andrew W. Mellon Fellowship to do research at the
Virginia Historical Society in Richmond.

DOUGLAS A. SCOVANNER joined The Fleming
Companies Inc. to become senior vice president of
finance. Fleming is the largest wholesaler in the
U.S. and is based in Oklahoma City.

CHARLES M. WILLIAMS JR. is author of Nasf-
ville Number System, a book about Nashville studio
musicnotation. He is currently on tourwith Wynonna
Judd. Williams and his wife, Kathleen, have a
daughter, Claire, 2.

Law: ELIZABETH T. GUARINO is the vice
president and general counsel for Grocery Manu-
facturers of America in Washington, D.C.

Law: CHAUNCEY C. WILLIAMS lives in Fair
Oaks, Calif. He reports that he is enjoying life on
the West Coast.

78
MARK E. BENNETT is presently an

associate general counsel at the New York Mercan-
tile Exchange. He spends his free time as a nature
and landscape photographer.

ALEXANDER H. BISHOP IV just completed his
second year as head soccer coach and middle school
social studies teacher at Genelg Country School in
Genelg, Md.

MARK H. DERBYSHIRE is the director of the
Carilion Employee Assistance Program, which pro-
vides counseling services to over 20,000 employees
of companies in Roanoke and the New River Valley
of Virginia. He is a licensed clinical social worker,
and lives with his wife, Minoy, and two children,
Joshua, 7, and Graci, 2.

GEORGE W. FAISON JR. reports a number of
errors in his listing in the summer alumni magazine.
Faison and his family, including 2-year-old son
George VI, make their home in Millington, N.]J.,
not Jersey City, and D’Artagnan Inc. is not only the
company Faison works for, it’s the company he
owns.

WILLIAM O. FREAR JR. is the director of safety
at Exide Corp. in Reading, Pa., which manufactures
automotive batteries. He and his wife, Michele,
have two daughters, Amy, 6, and Christine, 3.

ALEXIS B. (LEX) LaMOTTE is national sales
manager of industrial and municipal wastewater
treatment at Sybron Chemicals Inc. in Birming-
ham, N.J. He is the father of three daughters,
Frannie, Sarah, and Emily.

CHARLES H. NOBLE III was recently elected to
membership in the American Society of Real Es-
tate Counselors. He lives in San Antonio, Texas.

“David Duke: Echoes from the Past,” a radio story
by R. PLATER C. ROBINSON, recently won
second place for Outstanding Documentary by 4
Network in the National Headliner Awards compe-
tition. Robinson also was awarded first place in

 

Rh Bi ee Fao i ike

4% “

i hy

£

ah at le te ee a 1

 

"?¢ oa ~~." . re. are i - et ee
>

General News by the New Orleans Press Club for
the documentary, “David Duke: A Native Son,”
which aired on “Southways” out of Atlanta.

HENRY C. ROEMER III was elected treasurer of
the Forsyth County Young Lawyers Association for
1992-93. He is associated with the firm of Petree
Stockton in Winston-Salem, N.C.

THOMAS W. TIFT II] is president of the Medical
Property Co. of America, a new company he has
formed with a local Atlanta partner. The company
specializes in the development of medical office

buildings.

MAJ. ROLAN B. WALTERS has transferred from
Washington, D.C., where he served as the Marine
Corps Representative for Latin America and Asia,
to the National Intelligence Council. Walters will
return to Okinawa, Japan, and serve in the G-2 of
the Third Marine Expeditionary Force

19
DR. GEORGE M. BALLANTYNE

practices orthopedic surgery and sports medicine
with the PAPP clinic in Newnan, Ga. He and his
wife have four children, Patricia, 9, Mitch, 8, Chris-
topher, 5, and and newborn Jonathan.

ROBERT A.O. CALVERT has established his
own architectural practice in Concord, N.C. He was
a guest instructor at the UNC-Charlotte College of
Architecture this past spring.

CHARLES C. HABLISTON IV is a consulting
actuary with the Wyatt Co. in Washington D.C. He
and his wife, Ann Morton, and two children Caroline,
4, and Chazzo, 2, live in Alexandria, Va.

HARRY E. HALL (see GEOFFREY N. NOLAN,
74).

DR. KENDALL C. JONES JR. recently received
his M.D. from the University of Virginia. He is a
general surgery resident at the University of North
Carolina in Chapel Hill, where he and his wife and
two sons, Kendall III, 4, and Chas, 9 months, make
their home.

JONATHAN W. PINE JR. has recently been pro-
moted to editor-in-chief of medical specialties at
Williams and Wilkins, medical publishers in Balti-
more.

GARY J. PODESTA is general manager of chart

rehabilitation and head lacrosse coach at Santa

Clara University. He lives with his wife, Edith, and

oe children, Monica, 17, and Michael, 3, in Gilroy,
lif.

THOMAS B. RENTSCHLER JR. joined Hensley
Segal Inc., a Cincinnati-based advertising agency,
as a partner and senior vice president.

JOHN C. TOMPKINS has been coaching his sons,
Jacky, 8, and Scotty, 6, in little league baseball. He
lives in Lutherville, Md., with his sons, his wife,
Sara, and daughter, Julia, 2.

WILLIAM M. WEBSTER IV has been appointed
by President Bush as one of 15 White House Fel-
lows. lellows serve for one year as members of the
White House staff or as special assistants to mem-
bers of the Cabinet. Webster is president of Carabo,
Inc., the largest franchisee of Bojangles Famous
Chicken ’n Biscuits restaurant chain. His wife,
Jody, served as a White House Fellow in 1990-91.

 

 

 

 

 

 

MAADVOCATE

  

a oo ~<
. ’ _
y wa -
c aw ai.

The people’s advocate

HARWOOD STARTS PAPER IN ROCKBRIDGE COUNTY

Once a month, Doug Harwood,
’74, puts on his walking shoes, grabs an
armload of newspapers, and turns into
what he affectionately calls “the paper-
boy from Hell.”

There’s a special reason for his
burning desire to sell as many copies of
The Rockbridge Advocate as he can—it’s
his newspaper.

After a decade as the editor of The
Rockbridge Weekly, Harwood called it
quits in February to start publishing his
own monthly magazine that, as its
masthead proudly proclaims, strives to
be as “independent asa hog on ice.” In
the six months of its existence, The
Advocate has begun to carve out its own
niche, and the key for Harwood has
been in establishing a focus.

“T realized, first of all, that a publi-
cation without focus is a failed publica-
tion,” he said. “So [Advocaze publisher
and longtime associate] Kitty Sachs and
I decided to focus exclusively on what
we knew—the Rockbridge area.”

And Harwood knows the terrain as
well as anyone. A native of Massachu-
setts, he fell in love with the area while
at W&L and has remained here since
his graduation. More than 20 years of
residency taught him that his adopted
home is quite a unique place.

“The Rockbridge Advocate \s a te-
flection of all the fascinating things
there are to write about around here,”

   
 

_—_— a /\ xX
Se AE

Harwood’s eccentricity isn’t limited to his newspaper; it includes his taste in office furniture, as well.

 

ys

says Harwood. “Local issues interest
me more than the so-called big issues.
They have much more of an impact on
our everyday lives.”

Always something of a maverick,
Harwood is not afraid to tackle an issue
head-on. In its first six months, 7he
Advocate has examined a proposed
youth camp to be built on Jump Moun-
tain, the new consolidated high school,
local newspaper wars (besides The Ad-
vocate, anew daily newspaper has been
launched to compete with The News-
Gazette), demographic shifts in the
county, and growing real estate devel-
opment in the area. Harwood is a firm
believer in the rights and responsibili-
ties of the Fourth Estate.

“Asa rule, publicinstitutions don’t
just quietly reform themselves,” he
maintains. “People want to know what's
going on in their community, and they
deserve good reporting, too.”

With advertising selling well and
circulation figures on the rise, Harwood
can feel proud, but he’s not about to
rest. He remainsa fixture on the streets
of Lexington.

“It seems like we might know
what we're doing, finally,” he says.
“T’ve been here 20 years, and I’m just
beginning to know this community.
And I’Il never understand the Board of
Supervisors.”

—William Cocke

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 43

Webster reports that they are the first couple to
both have been appointed to the program.

Law: PHILIP L. HINERMAN isan attorney with
the law firm of Pepper, Hamilton, & Sheetz in
Philadelphia.

ANDREW W. BODENSTAB works

for ENSR Operations, part of Nukem, a New Jer-
sey-based, wholly-owned subsidiary of RWE of
Germany. He has responsibility for 13 northeastern
states, and reports the environmental business is
booming.

E. HUBBARD KENNADY III has been elected to
the city council in College Station, Texas. A partner
in the law firm of Kennady and Talbert, L.L.P. ,
Kennady practices civil litigation and family law.

THEODORE B. MARTIN JR. won the heralded
annual Pastures Golf Outing, clinching the coveted
“brown jacket” after DOUG L. GAKER, ’81, hita
cow and incurred a two-stroke penalty on a sudden
death playoff hole. Martin was also recently named
managing partner of the Chicago office of Nordeman
Grimm Inc., an executive search firm.

DR. LUCIEN T. MEGNA is a family practicioner
with an emphasis on sports medicine in Thornton,
Colo.

DAVIDSON A. PERRY-MILLER is senior vice
president at Ellen Terry Realtors. Last year, he was
recipient of Sotherby’s International Realty Mar-
keting Excellence award and was named one of the
top 10 agents in Dallas for sales production. Perry-
Miller returns to Lexington, Va., frequently, where
he is “slowly restoring” an old Victorian house.

HERBERT G. SMITH II was elected to the part-
nership of Venable, Baetjer & Howard in McLean,
Va. Smith specializes in construction litigation.

DANIEL J. WEEKS was recently awarded first
prize from Phi Alpha Theta, the national history
honor society, in the graduate division for his paper,
“Disorder in Monmouth County: Revolt Against
the Proprietary Government in East Jersey.” He is
currently pursuing a master’s degree at Monmouth
College, West Long Beach, N.J., where he is editor
of college publications. Weeks also was awarded a
$1,600 grant by the New Jersey Historical Commis-
sion. However, the grant is currently unfunded
because of budget cuts. Weeks planned on using
the grant to research 17th- and 18th-century colo-
nial records at the Public Records Office in London
and the Bodleian Library at Oxford University. He
is researching his book on Richard Salter, an attor-
ney and politician who lived in Monmouth County
from 1687 to 1728.

BRUCE W. WHIPPLE works in Westchester
County, N.Y., as a mortgage officer for the Commu-
nity Preservation Corp., a private mortgage finance
company specializing in community reinvestment
for commercial banks and pension funds.

JOHN C. (JACK) WILLHITE works for Adidas
U.S.A., covering the Mid-Atlantic area. He lives in
Richmond, Va.

SCOTT A. WILLIAMS was recently elected to a
three-year term on the board of trustees of the
Georgia Trust for Historic Preservation. The Trust
is the country’s largest statewide preservation orga-
nization. Williams is an associate with McKinsey

44 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

and Company Inc., a management consulting firm
in Atlanta.

Law: BARBARA A. REZNER was recently named
a recipient of the Gettysburg College Young Alumni
Achievement Award. Rezner, staff counsel for
Middlesex Mutual Insurance, has served as
Gettysburg alumni admissions representative and
is currently vice president of the Hartford, Conn.,
Alumni Club.

Law: MICHAEL R. TESTERMAN recently
opened his own office for the general practice of law
in Springfield, Mo.

Sl
DOUGLAS L. GAKER (see

‘THEODORE B. MARTIN, ’80).

DAVIDA. LEWIS was recently named team leader
of the derivative product and foreign exchange
team in the Legal Department of J.P. Morgan & Co.
Inc., where he is vice president and assistant gen-
eral counsel.

W. COPE MOYERS is a journalist for CNN in
Atlanta.

JOHN A PRITCHETT lives in Houston with his
wife, Kathy, and daughter, Parker, 2.

DAVID W. PROCTOR is a partner in the law firm
of Johnston, Barton, Proctor, Swedlan & Naff in
Birmingham, Ala. He and his wife, Anne, have two
sons, Thomas Brooks, 3, and Burns McNeil, 8
months.

JOHN K. SAUNDERS is an attorney in Atlanta.

RICHARD B. SILBERSTEIN has been elected
president of the Baltimore chapter of the American
Society of Chartered Life Underwriters and Char-
tered Financial Consultants. Silberstein is an asso-
ciated principal with Franklin/Morris Associates,
an insurance and employee benefit planning firm
located in Baltimore.

JAMES R. SMALL formed a geological consulting
company and is currently involved in oil property
evaluation in West Texas. He plans to purchase
and generate oil production being sold by major oil
companies. He and his wife live in Midland, Texas.

Law: THE REV. CHARLES F. BAHN JR. serves
as associate pastor of National Avenue Christian
Church in Springfield, Mo. He spends his spare
time doing pro bono work with the Legal Aid
Society of Southwest Missouri.

Law: DEBORAH H. CRUZE was recently ap-
pointed assistant judge for the city of Glendale,
Ariz. Cruze, who had served as a judge pro tempore
for a year in Glendale, teaches business law at
Arizona State University -West. She and her hus-
band, Gary, have three children.

"82
CAPT. DAVID A. CORE is the offi-

cer-in-charge of Kitzingen Legal Center, office of
the Staff Judge Advocate, 3rd Infantry Division,
Germany. He and his wife, Cynthia, live in
Eibelstadt, Germany.

CAPT. SCOTT D. CRAWFORD is currently sta-
tioned at Fort Gordon, Ga., with his wife, Karen,
and theirthreechildren, Ashley, Scotty, and Chelsea.

RICHARD D. HACHENBURG is currently the
Southern regional manager for Beltone Electronics
Corp. He lives in Miami.

DR. RUDOLPH G. JOHNSTONE III has Started
a practice in allergy/immunology in Greenville,
S.C. He and his wife, Sarah, have two daughters,
Jennings and Ellison.

GLEN FRANKLIN KOONTZisan attorney with
the firm of Keller & Heckman in Washington, DB:

MICHAEL J. MALESARDIT has taken a Position
with the Wyatt Company as Controller. He lives in
Alexandria, Va.

JAMES P. SHEA JR. is a teacher in Northfield
Mount Hermon School’s history and social science
department in Northfield, Mass. He has been chosen
by the Council for Basic Education as a Fellow for
Independent Study in the Humanities. Shea ex-
plored the history and culture of ancient E
during the full-time summer independent study,

RUSSELL H. STALL recently formed Perfor-
mance Marketing Group, a marketing research
consultant firm in Atlanta.

DAVID C. TYLER joined Wilson & Nolan South-
east Inc. in Atlanta, and he works as a leasing
director for the firm’s commercial properties.

JOHN ARCHER WELLS is director of public
relations for International House, which was
founded by J.D. Rockefeller Jr. as a residence and
program center for graduate students from the U.S.
and 90 other countries. Wells also does volunteer
work for the New York Philharmonic and the Mu-
seum of Modern Art.

Law: ANNE S. ARNEY specializes in securities
and healthcare with the law firm of Baker,
Worthington, Crossley, Stansberry & Woolf in
Nashville, Tenn.

Law: JAMES L. CHAPMAN IV was recently
chosen by the Republican Party to oppose incum-
bent Owen B. Pickett for the 2nd District con-
gressional seat. Chapman is a Virginia Beach, Va.,
resident and a lawyer in the Norfolk firm of
Crenshaw, Ware & Martin. He defeated Ewin
Ottinger, a Norfolk businessman, for the Republi-
can nomination.

Law: DUSTIN D. NELSON is a partner in the law
firm of Brandt, Laughlin, Schaak, Whipple & Clark
in Mayville, N.Y. He lives in Bemus Point, N.Y.,
with his wife, Theo, and children, Sophie, 5, and
Dustin, 3.

Law: THOMAS Y. SAVAGE divides his time be-
tween the legal profession and volunteerism. Sav-
age lives with his wife, Julia, and their daughter,
Hannah, 4, in Fredericksburg, Va. Concerned with
environmental pollution and soil erosion, he has
worked creatively to raise awareness of environ-
mental problems in the area.

833
DEWEY J. BAILEY III has finished

his Endocrinology Fellowship at the Medical Col-
lege of Virginia Hospital and joined the Endocri-
nology Association of Virginia.

PETER A. BAUMGAERTNER has joined the
law firm of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Leiby & MacRae in
Jacksonville, Fla.

 

WILLIAM A. (SKIP) EPPERSON teaches under-

duate theater and design classes at Cabrillo Col-
lege. He lives in the Santa Cruz Mountains with his
wife, Mary Jo, and daughter, Sara, 4, and son,

Zachary, 1.

w. JAMES JONAS III was elected asa shareholder
in the law firm of McCamish, Martin & Loeffler.
He lives in San Antonio, Texas.

w. HENRY LANGHORNE III is finishing a fel-
jlowship in cardiology at Emory University in At-

Janta.

THOMAS M. LAWSON is an attorney with Hazel
& Thomas, P.C., in Winchester, Va. He and his
wife, Becky, have a daughter, Kathryne, 2, and a
son, Thomas Moore, 1.

MICHAEL D. MAHONEY recently joined the
Orange County (Calif.) investment firm of Stan-
dard Investment Chartered as an associate.

Law: N\CHOLAS J. KAISER is an attorney with
the law firm of Mandel & Resnik in New York City.

Law: HERBERT G. SMITH II (see ’80).

Law: STEVENJ. TRANELLIisan attorney with
Chamberlin, d’Amanda et al., in Rochester, N.Y.
He lives in Rochester with his wife, Kathleen, and
daughter, Sarah, 1.

"84
PAUL F. CHAPMAN has taken a

leave of absence from the University of Minnesota
for the year in order to do research at the University
of Edinburgh. He and his wife, Lynne, and son,
Thomas, live in Edinburgh, Scotland.

LES HENRY CLARK works as a Software Engi-
neer at CAE-Link Flight Simulation in Bingham-
ton, N.Y.

EMORY A. EDWARDS has taken a position as an
account manager in the real estate/financial public
relations division of Howard J. Rubenstein Associ-
ates in New York City.

GREGORY H. HAYNES works in the facilities
management division of Marriot Corp. and serves
as Operations manager at Ruby Memorial Hospital in
Morgantown, W.Va. Haynes was married in Octo-
ber 1991 to Cindy Maynard of Parkersburg, W.Va.

ANTHONY J. INTERRANTE has joined the law
firm of Malouf, Lynch, Jackson, Kessler & Collins
as an associate in the litigation section.

JAMES P. LAURIE III graduated from Campbell
University School of Law in May. He is taking the
North Carolina and Tennessee bar exams in July,
and then will join the Safran Law Offices in Raleigh,
N.C. He will practice in the area of construction law.
He and his wife, Melissa, are buying and restoring
a 75-year-old house in Raleigh.

JOHN L. McCANTS is an associate attorney in
Columbia, S.C., with the law firm of Adams,
Quackenbush, Herring, & Stuart, P.A. McCants
concentrates on bankruptcy law.

PETER M. MULLER has received his M.B.A.
from Babson College in Wellesley, Mass. He cur-
rently is a product manager for Micrografix in
Richardson, Texas.

 

 

 

Musser, Sloat, and MCI’s Roberts chat after the wedding. (MCI photo)

Hello, Love

INVITATION TURNS MUSSER, SLOAT INTO CELEBRITIES

‘The way bride- and groom-to-be
Laura Musser, 92, and Jim Sloat, ’89,
figured it, if they were going to be
inviting significant others to their wed-
ding, then they darn sure better be
inviting the phone company. When
you spend more time talking to each
other on the telephone than you do
talking to each other in person, some-
body at the phone company ought to
be thanked.

So Musserand Sloat did what only
seemed logical. ‘They sent an invita-
tion to their June wedding to MCI,
their long-distance carrier. And what
do you know, MCI accepted. But wait,
there’s more.

In addition to having MCI Chair-
man and CEO Bert Roberts attend
their wedding, Jim and Laura became
a pair of media celebrities. First, Jim’s
letter inviting Roberts to the wedding
was featured in an MCI commercial.
Then, Jimand Laura were interviewed
by a number of different media out-
lets, including ABC’s “Good Morning
America,” which invited the couple
and Laura’s father up to New York and
putthem upatthe Ritz-Carlton. ‘Then,
the wedding became the subject of a
second MCI commercial, which also
happened to appear on “Entertain-
ment Tonight.” Itwas notexactly what
they expected to happen, Jim said.

“I expected we would get some
response, but really, what we were

trying to do was to express our thanks
for a quality product that gave us a
substantial savings on our phone bills,”
he explained. “It really was an incred-
ible experience. We made a lot of new
friends along the way.”

The newlyweds clearly were a
valued customer for MCI. Sloat, who
is earning his Ph.D. at Duke Univer-
sity and Musser, who recently gradu-
ated with a degree in European his-
tory, talked on the phone nightly, usu-
ally 20-30 minutes each call, although
Sloat admits, they did sometimes have
the occasional “four-hour call.”

Still, MCI’s first response was a
simple thank you note from the home
office that indicated they would not be
able to attend the wedding. But three
weeks before the wedding, the MCI
public relations office called Sloat and
said they were excited about the letter
and would be attending the wedding.
What resulted was a commercial that
included a voice reading Sloat’s invita-
tion letter mixed with some snapshots
of the couple, including one from Fancy
Dress. The commercial closed with
the words “We'll be there.”

But while the phone was a key
part of their courting, Sloat said he
doesn’t expect to be doing any more
ads for long-distance companies.

“No, when we decided to get
married, we also decided we were never
going to live apart again,” he said.

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 45

CAPT. EDWARD J. O’BRIEN graduated from
law school at the University of Notre Dame. He has
been assigned to the office of the Staff Judge
Advocate, 10th Mountain Division, Fort Drum,
N.Y.

RICHARD C. SWAGLER JR. is a staff attorney
with the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the
Press. He also serves as managing editor of the
quarterly magazine, 7he News Media and the Law.
The committee is a non-profit organization founded
in 1970 that provides free legal advice to journalists
throughout the country.

TIMOTHY A. VALLIERE will attend New York
University Law School in the fall. He lives in
Scranton, Pa.

Law: H. JANE NORTH works for the law firm of
Gordon, Thomas, Honeywell, Malanca, Peterson
& Darheim in Tacoma, Wash., where she mediates
disputes between Indian tribes and municipalities
over water and fishing rights. She has a daughter,
Caitlin, 2.

Law: DANIEL E. RILEY is director of planned
giving at the University of California at San Fran-
cisco. He was previously acting director of planned
giving at the University of Virginia.

Law: THOMAS B. SHEPHERD III and his wife,
Mary Scott, and sons, Banks, 5, and Martin, 3, are
busy with tee ball and soccer at home in Ridgeland,
Miss., he reports. His law practice has expanded
from corporate and insurance regulatory to include
representation of gaming developers coming to
Mississippi.

Law: SOLOMON L. VAN METER is practicing
law in Lexington, Ky., with the law firm Wyatt,
‘Tarrant, & Combs.

SS
JAMES T. BERRY JR. has joined the

accounting firm of Grant Thornton, where he will
continue as an audit manager. He lives in Dallas.

ROBERT D. BRYANT recently received an
M.F.A. in motion picture production from the School
of Cinema/Television at the University of South-
ern California. Bryant has bought the screen rights
to Superfolks, a novel by Robert Mayer and is pursu-
ing a production deal.

ANDREW B. COLE is currently inan Emergency
Medicine Residency. He lives with his wife, Jane,
in Norfolk, Va.

JOHN A. DiDURO works at the Pentagon as a
knowledge engineer/artificial intelligence computer
programmer for the U.S. Army. In his spare time,
DiDuro referees high school boys and girls varsity
basketball and high school and college lacrosse. He
lives in Lake Ridge, Va. with his wife, Renee, and
their baby son, Anthony James.

HARRY W. GOLLIDAY is vice president of real
estate credit administration with Crestar Bank in
Richmond, Va.

CLARK HATHAWAY LEWIS just completed his
second year as an associate at the Richmond, Va.,
law firm of Mays and Valentine.

WILLIAM A. MANER worksas an associate in the
corporate finance group of Morgan Stanley & Co. in
New York City.

46 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

GORDON S. OGDEN is seniorassociate at Pattison
Partners, a real estate consulting firm in New York
City. He recently completed the New York Mara-
thon in 2:55.

EARL T. SUMMERS is vice president of market-
ing for Lomar Financial Group in Dallas.

RONALD B. THORNTON is married and has a
son, R. Blair Jr., He is a certified public accountant
in Alexandria, Va.

WILLIAM R. TOMMINS is vice president/team
leader for the Commercial Lending Division of
Fleet Bank in Stamford, Conn., which handles
Greenwich, Conn., and Westchester County in
New York. He will receive his M.B.A. from Fordham
University in December. Tommins and his wife,
Paula, live in Rye, N.Y.

JAMES J. WERNER JR. isa district sales manager
for the Southern California district of LevolorCorp.,
which manufactures window coverings. He lives in
Huntington Beach, Calif.

PETER M. WRIGHT recently completed his first
year of law school at the University of Alabama.

Law: JOHN M. MILLER is practicing law in
Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., with an emphasis on
commercial litigation.

Law: SHARON BREWER NAULT is an associ-
ate counsel at Confederation Life Insurance Co., an
international life and health insurer. Her responsi-
bilities are in the area of securities regulation and
compliance. She and her husband live in Atlanta
with their son, Christopher Joseph.

Law: J. ROBERT WOOFTER JR. is senior asso-
ciate with the law firm of Aglietti, Rodey & Offret
in Anchorage, Alaska. He lives there with his wife,
Lucie, and sons, Robert, 10, Brett, 6, and Hunter, 1.

86
CHRISTEN A. ALEVIZATOS has

finished his second year of surgery residency in
Pittsburgh.

JAMES M. BERGER received his M.B.A. from the
University of Virginia’s Darden School. Berger will
assume a position as assistant product manager with
Dunkin’ Donuts Inc., in Randolph, Mass.

JOHN P. CASE III received his M.B.A. from the
University of Virginia’s Darden School. Case will
assume a position as investment banking associate
with Merrill Lynch & Co. in New York City.

PAUL R. FOUTCH is an assigning editor on the
Olympics news desk for The Atlanta Constitution.

MICHAEL T. MARR is an associate with Norfolk
Financial Corp. He isin the process of acquiring the
necessary licenses to become a registered invest-
ment advisor and certified financial planner.

NELSON R. PATTERSON is an assistant brand
manager at Procter & Gamble in Cincinatti. He
works on the national introduction of Ultra Downy,
a concentrated fabric softener.

JOHN S. SANDERS recently resigned from the
Army and currently works as a commodities broker
for the David J. Joseph Co. He lives with his wife,
Kathy, and son, Joshua, in Lake Bluff, Ill.

   
   
  
   
  
  

STEWART R. SPEED was recently featured in a .
story in The Atlanta Constitution about public Opin. —
ions on the upcoming presidential election. Speed —
lives in Atlanta. ;

J. MacGREGOR WHEELER (see CHARLES _
G.M. GROH, ’87).

DONALD M. WILKINSON III received his _
M.B.A. from the University of Virginia’ s ee
School. He will assume a position as

finance associate with Chase Manhattan Bank ; in
New York City.

Law: PETER A. BAUMGAERTNER (see ’83), _

Law: DOUGLAS LEE LAWING is recovering
from what he describes as a “fairly serious” 5 4
accident in Aspen, Colo. He hopes to resume the

practice of law in the near future.

Law: KIRK A LUDWIG works in residential real
estate investment in Virginia Beach, Va.
Law: STEPHEN BRIAN STOCKTON works .
the attorney general’s office in Charleston, W.Va. _

S7/
STUART K. BROWN isa press secre- _

tary for the Republican Party in Tallahassee, Fla.

MARK M. CANON now lives in Roanoke, Vay
where he teaches 8th-grade math and science at the © cS
Northcross School.

DAVID H. GORDON works for the Fishing Co. of —
Alaska, on the vessel A/askan Spirit. His home port —
is Dutch Harbor, Alaska, in the northwestern Aleu-

tian Islands. %

CHARLES G.M. GROH is studying in Ann Arbor —

for the Michigan Bar Exam. He recently visited —
GREG WHEELER, ’86, at the Senior Tourna- _
ment Players Championship golf tournament in —
Dearborn, Mich.

ROBERT T. LAFARGUE JR. is a second-year a
psychiatric resident at the New York University
Medical Center at Bellevue Hospital.

RICHARD E. LAIL (see JOHN C. HUFFARD
JR., *90).

JOHN V. LOWE is a graduate fellow at Salisbury _
State University and an assistant wrestling coach. _
He is pursuing a master’s degree in English litera-
ture and recently competed in the Greco-Roman
wrestling Olympic Trials in Las Vegas. He livesin
Salisbury, Md. S
KAORI MIYAKE is a graduate student at the
University of Ottawa School of Law.

SCOTT M. NEWMAN has completed his first
year of the M.B.A. program at the A.B. Freeman
School of Business at Tulane University. He livesin
New Orleans.

at
a

JUDITH RINGLAND OUTLAND has joined
the Cornerstone Relocation Group in Morristown,
N.J., where she manages a career development — 3
department. She lives in Bridgewater, N.J., with
her husband, Jim, and her “hound,” Lulu. g
JOHN P. ROWE graduated with an M.B.A. from
William & Mary and joined Coopers & Lybrand’s
Roanoke, Va., office.

p.J. ST! ‘RGILL JR. has joined the law firm of
Robinson & McElwee in Lexington, Ky. Sturgill
concentrates on civil litigation in energy and envi-
ronmental areas.

HARPER B. TRAMMELL is an assistant invest-
ment officer with the Teacher Retirement System
of Texas. He earned a master’s degree in business
from the | iniversity of Texas in August 1991.

GREGORY E. TURLEY graduated from the Uni-
versity of Houston Law Center in May. He will sit
for the ‘Texas bar exam in July and then begin
working for the law firm of Maxwell & Levy. He
and his wife, Susan, live in Houston.

DOUGLAS W. TURRELL is currently pursuing a
high school teaching certificate at Monmouth Col-
lege in West Long Branch, N.J.

Law: VICTOR O. CARDWELL is an attorney
with the law firm Woods, Rogers & Hazelgrove in
Roanoke, Va.

Law: GORHAM SHARPLESS CLARK is an
attorney with Foust & Clark in Vienna, Va.

Law: DAVID MICHAEL HIRSBERG is an asso-
ciate attorney in Savannah, Ga., at the law firm of
Hunter, Maclean, Exle & Dunn, P.C.

Law: GLEN F. KOONTZ (see ’82).

SS
THOMAS J. AMICO recently gradu-

ated from the University of Virginia Law School.
He is an associate in the structured finance depart-
ment of Brown & Wood in New York City.

D. FORREST CANNON JR. graduated from the
Lauder Institute at the University of Pennsylvania
with an M.B.A. from Wharton and an M.A. in
international studies from the School of Arts and
Sciences. While at Lauder, he served on the board
of directors of the Philadelphia chapter of Christ-
mas-in-April, a national charity organization. Cur-
rently, he works for Scott Paper Co., where, after six
months in their Philadelphia headquarters, he will
work on strategic planning and marketing in either
Hong Kong or Singapore.

E. MARK CHIAPPARA is a certified public ac-
countant for KPMG Peat Marwick in Frankfurt,
Germany.

DR. JOSEPH D. FISHER received his M.D. from
the University of Virginia and is currently in a
residency in pediatrics in Greenville, N.C. He re-
cently bicycled coast to coast in 26 days.

DAVID B. GRAY is pursuing his M.B.A. at the
Owen Graduate School of Management at
Vanderbilt University.

ROBERT J. KELLY recently received his M.B.A.
from Duke University.

JOHN S. KIRCHNER recently graduated from
the Hahnemann University School of Medicine.
He will complete a residency in orthopedic surgery at
Hahnemann University Hospital in Philadelphia.

JASON P. LISI received a law degree from West-
erm New England College School of Law in May.
He is currently pursuing a master of laws degree in
taxation law from Villanova Law School.

THOMAS J. McBRIDE is a financial consultant
for Merrill Lynch in Dallas. He and his wife, Laura,
recently moved there from Sarasota, Fla.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN III is clerking for THE
HON. FREDERICK P. STAMP JR., ’56, Federal
District Judge for the Northern District in Wheel-
ing, W.Va.

FRANCIS P. ROONEY JR. recently received his
Master of Business Administration from Duke Uni-
versity.

STEPHEN T. SEARS will be pursuing his M.B.A.
at the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University
in Durham, N.C.

BRAD WATKINS (see JOHN C. HUFFARDJR.,
90).

JAMES R. WEISS is pursuing his doctorate at West
Virginia University in Morgantown.

Law: PHILLIP H. BUCHANAN was recently
named financial planning officer and in-house coun-
sel for FCFI, Inc., a regional bank holding company
in Virginia and West Virginia.

Law: KENNETH G. STALLARD is an attorney
with the law firm of Thompson, O’Donnell,
Markham, Norton, and Hannon in Washington,
D.C.

Law: RICHARD K. WELCH is an attorney with
the Federal Communications Commission in the
General Counsel, Administrative Law Division, in
Washington, D.C.

89
M. LUCILLE ANDERSON com-

pleted the New York Studio School for Drawing,
Painting & Sculpture.

LEE D. BRADING is going to Sydney, Australia, to
work at BDO Seidman for three months as part of an
exchange program. His wife, TRACY WILLIAMS
BRADING, ’89, will join him after completing her
internship at Emory University Hospital.

RICHARD G. BROCK will finish his third year of
law school at the University of Alabama in May of
next year.

J. MICHELLE BROCKMAN isa pharmaceutical
representative for Rhone Poulenc Rorer in Lexing-
ton, Ky.

RONALD J. BROWN is deputy associate director
of presidential personnel at the White House. He
lives in Arlington, Va.

GREGORY J. CASTRONUOVO is sports market-
ing administrator for NBC. He lives in New York
City.

SHELDON CLARK III recently moved to Tampa,
Fla., where he works as a financial advisor at Pru-
dential Securities. Clark reports that he is looking
forward to following the new Tampa Bay Bucca-
neers and to dropping his handicap below 30.

EDWARD B. COVER (see MICHAEL S.
APPLEBAUM, 90).

CHRISTOPHER S. DE MOVELLAN has been
elected president of the Cleveland Alumni Chap-
ter. He currently works for B.F. Goodrich and lives

in Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio.

R. STEPHEN FLAGLER has joined the law firm
of Ravitz, Mahoney & Coolidge in Savannah, Ga.

G. STUART GEISEL works for a division of Sara
Lee Corp.-Aris Isotoner in New York City.

JACE H. GOINS will attend West Virginia Univer-
sity Law School in the fall.

VANESSA HARTMAN is a benefits accountant
for Specialty Coating Group, Inc., in Richmond, Va.

JASON R. HODGES and his wife, MEREDITH
WALKER HODGES, ’89, are living in Atlanta,
where Jason is a financial analyst with Delta, and
Meredith is doing market research for Georgia
Power Co.

MATTHEW J. HORRIDGE covers Pasco County
government for the Zampa Tribune and lives in Port
Richey, Fla.

DEBRA B. HURTT is entering her last year of
medical school at the University of Maryland.

WILLIAM R. LASSEIGNE III is pursuing a
master’s degree in business from Louisiana State
University.

CRAIG D. LOVE (see KRISTEN E. HARING,
90).

AMY P. MARKS is an account manager in the
marketing department of HealthAmerica, a health
maintenence organization. She lives in Pittsburgh.

T. ALLEN McCONNELL isan associate with the
Dallas law firm of Jenkins & Gilchrist, P.C.

W. FRAY McCORMICK is sales manager for The
Park Hotel in Charlotte, N.C.

S. HUGHES MELTON is in his final year of
medical school at the University of Virginia. He
plans to pursue training in family practice in prepa-
ration for both rural and Third World medical mis-
sions.

iST LT. R. SCOTT QUAGLIATA serves in the
U.S. Army, and is currently stationed at Fort Sill,
Okla.

JOHN C. ROACH graduated from the University
of Kentucky College of Law. Currently, he works as
a clerk for Judge Pierce Lively on the Sixth Circuit
of the U.S. Court of Appeals.

PETERJ.W. SHERWIN recently graduated from
Columbia Law School. He is now clerking for the
Hon. Ann Aldrich, Federal District Judge, North-
ern District of Ohio.

J. A. JONES TYLER III has taken a position with
the stock brokerage firm of Alex, Brown, and Sons
in Richmond, Va.

MARYANNE L. WHITE recently received her
M.S. in physical therapy from Duke University.

Law: MARIE JOAN BUTTARAZZI recently
accepted a position as a corporate and securities
lawyer at the Boston firm of Mintz, Levin, Cohn,
Ferris, Glousky & Popeo.

Law: KATHLEEN E. GARRISON works for the
Michie Company in Charlottesville, Va.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 47

Law: JULIA LOVE HOTCHKISS recently de-
cided to switch careers and follow in her father’s
footsteps. She recently joined Queens College as
director of planned giving, where she will be re-
sponsible for raising funds and soliciting gifts by
means of bequests and other estate planning. Her
father, FARRIS P. HOTCHKISS '’S8, is vice presi-
dent of university relations at Washington and Lee.
Julia and her husband, Robert Muth, live in Char-
lotte, N.C.

900
MICHAEL S. APPLEBAUM is an

associate producer with Video Takes, Inc., a film
and video production company in Arlington, Va. He
lives with SAMUEL TAYLOR WILLIAMS, ’89,
and EDWARD BOND COVER, ’89, in Arlington.

G. WESLEY BOYD finished his second year of
teaching and coaching basketball and track and
field at The Darlington School in Rome, Ga. His
girls track team finished third in Georgia this year.

2ND LT. J. WAYNE BURRIS JR. serves in the
U.S. Army Field Artillery. He graduated from
Ranger School at Fort Benning, Ga., on April 17,
1992. Burris is currently stationed in Germany.

SHAWN A. COPELAND is attending law school
at Washington and Lee.

KRISTI GOODMAN DOOLEY recently received
a position as a human resources management trainee
with Barnett Banks Inc. in Jacksonville, Fla.

STEVEN J. GOMEZ works as a sales representa-
tive for Invisible Fencing, Boundaries for Pets,
which is owned and operated by MORGAN
SCHAFER, ’57. Gomez lives in Lakeville, Conn.

MATTHEW W. GREY is working in special ac-
count services for T. Rowe Price Associates in
Baltimore. He will attend law school at the Univer-
sity of Richmond in the fall.

SCOTT B. HAMILTON lives in Arlington, Va.,
and works as a legal assistant for a Washington,
D.C., law firm. He will attend law school at Wash-
ington University in St. Louis in the fall.

KRISTEN E. HARING spent her summer in An-
chorage, Alaska, with classmate DEBBIE GROVE,
RASHMI SACHAN, ’92, and CRAIG LOVE, ’89.
She is in her first year of medical school at Wright
State School of Medicine in Dayton, Ohio.

WOODARD S. HEATH is an assistant director of
admissions at The Darlington School in Rome, Ga.

L. ASHLEY HOOPES moved from Washington,
D.C., to Wilmington, Del., where she works as an
account executive for Lyons Marketing Communi-
cations, an advertising agency.

JOHN C. HUFFARD JR. works in Atlanta for
Stormont Companies, a hotel management firm.
He lives with RICHARD LAIL, ’87, and BRAD
WATKINS, ’88, and is a strong supporter of the
Atlanta Braves.

EVAN JAMES KLINE is starting his third year at
the Dickinson School of Law in Carlisle, Pa.

DAVID C. MARSHALL recently completed his
second year in the Ph.D. program in biology at the
University of Michigan, where he is concentrating
on evolutionary ecology and animal behavior.

48 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

KIMBERLY ANN MOSELEY recently completed
her first year of law school in San Diego. She will
continue her legal education this summer at Cam-
bridge University in England.

EVE L. MULLEN received her master’s in world
religions and theology from Harvard. Mullen is
now at work toward her doctorate at Temple Uni-
versity in Philadelphia.

WILLIAM A. NORTON JR. is in his second year
of graduate school at the University of Alabama,
taking environmental engineering and hydrology.

MATTHEW D. ORMISTON teaches history at
Culver Academy, a small private school in Indiana.
He was recently nominated by the Peace Corps to
teach English in Africa.

KATHERINE C. PARK is pursuing a master’s
degree in biological anthropology from the Univer-
sity of Tennessee. She will continue in the doctor-
ate program in biomedicine, with a focus on biome-
chanics and the molecular structure of bone.

DONALD ROSS PATTERSON JR. (see RICH-
ARD W. FEURING, ’91).

LORIRICHARDSON is traveling around the world
to write about the thoroughbred horse industry in
England, Ireland, Germany, Italy, and Australia.
She plans to attend the W&L School of Law in the
fall of 1993.

NELSON S. (TEE) TEAGUE works as a supervi-
sor in the credit and collections department of
Circuit City in Richmond, Va.

JOHN E. THORSON JR. (see RICHARD W.
FEURING, ’91).

Law: STEVEN JAMES BOYNE has been ap-
pointed staff counsel and information officer of
Barnett Bank. Boyne and his wife reside in Jack-
sonville, Fla.

Law: NANETTE KAY DORY works for the
Legislative Counsel Bureau in Carson City, Nev.

Law: ROSE BURKS EMERY is an attorney with
the law firm of Spencer & Filson in Lexington, Va.

"Ol
CARY C. BABER works for the mar-

keting department of Wheat First Securities at
their corporate headquarters in Richmond, Va.

CHRISTOPHER C. BARADEL is in his first year
of law school at the University of Virginia. He
recently finished a one-year position working for
the W&L Alumni Office.

JUDSON M. BLAZEK is a geologist with North
American Exploration in Charlottesville, Va.

KIMBERLY E. BOOTH is living in Alexandria,
Va., with classmates SARAH W. CONRAD,
CLARE E. CHAPOTEN, AMY N. MILES, and
CRISTINA S. ROBINSON. Kimberly reports
thatall four graduates are either working orattending
graduate school.

ROBERT B. BROWN works as an operations ana-
lyst for CSX Intermodel in Jacksonville, Fla. He
spent Memorial Day Weekend with classmates
JOHN PHOENIX and MASON POPE.

S. HUNTER CATLETT JR. is job searching in
Richmond, Va. He recently visited Billy Bob’s, the
world’s largest honky-tonk bar, in Fort Worth, Texas,
to see David Allen Coe.

AMY W. COATES is currently employed asa staff _
accountant at Frost & Co. ,a local public accounting
firm in Little Rock, Arkansas.

RICHARD W. FEURING is a manager with the _
Ritz-Carlton Hotel Co. in Washington, D.C. He
lives at LeGrange with DONALD ROSS |
PATTERSON JR., 90, and JOHN EDWARD _
‘THORSON JR., ’90, in Falls Church, Va.

TODD B. GARLISS JR. works for Alex Brown & _
Sons Inc. in the over-the-counter trading division, —

He lives in Brooklandville, Md., just outside of 4

Baltimore.

GREGORY J. GOLDEN is working on U.S, Sen, _
Arlen Specter’s re-election campaign in Pennsylva-
nia. Golden lives in Philadelphia.

TIMOTHY J. HALLORAN is an admissions coun- ; |
selor at W&L.

ERIC R. HARLAN is in his second year at the _
University of Baltimore School of Law. Heisonthe _
staff of the Law Review and is an alternate justiceon _
the Honor Court.

D. MICHELLE JONES is enrolled in the Japan-
English Teaching Program for 1992-93. She began
teaching English in Japan in July.

CHARLES E. KRANICH II is in the retail jewelry
business in State College, Pa.

PAUL V. LAGARDE is attending Louisiana State
University Law School in Baton Rouge, La.

ANNE D. LAMKIN will be attending Cumberland
School of Law beginning in the summer of 1992.
She lives in Birmingham, Ala.

THOMAS D. LOVELL is working as an imple-
mentation specialist for the Composite Health Care
System Division of Science Applications Interna-
tional Corp., which is based in San Diego.

ROSCHELLE MACK MEARS works at Cleve-
land State Community College in Cleveland, Tenn.,
where she lives with her husband, Richard. She
plans to pursue a master’s degree in Spanish at the
University of Tennessee.

JULEE A. MESSERICH is an assistant to the
president with Publicitas Inc., an international media
firm in New York City.

JOHN E. MILLER III isa sales representative for
John Hancock Financial Services in Richmond.

IAN S. SHUPACK is in his second year of medical
school at Texas A&M College of Medicine.

TAMMI R. SIMPSON attends the University of
Tennessee Law School. She is spending her sum-
mer as a legal intern at the district attorney’s office
in Nashville, Tenn.

F. SKIP SUGARMAN was recently promoted from
legislative correspondent to legislative assistant for
Rep. Jim Olin. Sugarman will concentrate on for-
eign affairs, the judiciary, veterans affairs, federal
workers, and postal issues.

 

SUMNER TIMBERLAKE is a corporate banking
representative with Wachovia Bank in Atlanta.

TIMOTHY C. TRUXELL is working on complet-
ing his master’s in English at William and Mary in
Williamsburg, Va.

JOHN H. WALSH recently graduated from the
U.S. Marine Corps Basic School, which prepares
officers for assignment to the Fleet Marine force.

LOVELL M. WEST is taking one year off from her
graduate studies at the University of South Carolina
to teach English at the University of Barcelona in

Spain.

HAROLD H. WINGERD III is a customer service
representative with the Vanguard group of Invest-
ment Companies in Valley Forge, Pa.

Law: })OHN GREGORY BYRD has joined the law
firm of Jackson & Kelly in Charleston, W.Va.

Law: M. CHRISTINE CORNETT practices law
with Reid & Priest in Washington, D.C., specializ-
ing in real estate, bankruptcy, and foreclosure is-
sues. She is a member of the Maryland Bar and
anticipates joining the D.C. Bar soon.

Law: EMILY C. DABNEY has joined the family
law firm of Dabney & Dabney in Vicksburg, Miss.

Law: CHARLOTTE VAUGHAN GIBSON is an
associate at the law firm of Walton & Adams in
McLean, Va.

Law: MELISSA PAM LANDE isa deputy district
attorney for Deschutes County, Oregon. She lives
in Bend, Ore.

Law: KAREN DIANNE LEE is the comptroller
of public accounts for Legal Services in Austin,
Texas.

Law: CARY POWELL MOSELEY has com-
pleted his judicial clerkship with Judge Norman
Moon of the Virginia Court of Appeals. He is now
an associate with James, McElroy & Diehl in Char-
lotte, N.C., specializing in criminal and civil litiga-
tion. Moseley is also active in the Big Brothers of
Virginia.

Law: THOMAS P. O'BRIEN III (see ’88).

Law: MARKG.REINECKE practices law in Bend,
Ore.

Law: REBECCA A. WOMELDORF is a judicial
clerk for the Hon. Lewis F. Powell Jr., retired
associate justice of the U.S. Supreme Court.

92
ARMANDO BENINCASA is attend-

ing law school at the University of Virginia.

WILLIAM T. BRINKMAN is attending Emory
Medical School.

DOUGLAS B. BROWN will begin pursuing a
master’s degree in biomedical chemistry from Tho-
mas Jefferson University in the fall.

J AMES S. BRUCE isan intern at the United States
Telecommunications Training Institute in Wash-
ington, D.C.

HOLLY A. BUFFINGTON is a litigation legal
assistant with the New York firm of Thacher, Proffitt,
& Wood.

2NDLT. KEVIN L. CARL is inthe U.S. Army and
is stationed at Fort Sill, Okla.

JOHN T. (TREY) COX II is in his first year at the
University of Virginia School of Law.

JOHN P. DONALDSON is in his first year at the
University of Virginia School of Law. He is living
with CHRISTOPHER C. BARADEL, ’91, and
JOHN T. (TREY) COX III, "92, in Charlottesville.

CHARLES C. EDWARDS is attending medical
school at the University of Maryland.

ANDREW A. FINKBEINER will enter the Peace
Corps for three years beginning in November. He
currently lives in Little Rock, Ark.

J. READ FOLLINE works in the commercial
lending division of NationsBank in Columbia, S.C.

JONATHAN A. FRANK is attending law school at
the University of Richmond.

M. HILL GOODSPEED is in the co-op program
at the National Museum of Naval Aviation.

ASHLEY E. GRAY is attending medical school at
George Washington University.

EMILY C. GREER works in sales at Nordstroms
department store.

THOMAS S. GROW works inthe human resources
department of Tektronix Inc. in Woodbridge, N.J.

CINDY D. HEFFERN is an analyst for Analytical
Technologies Inc.

JODI L. HERRING is pursuing a master’s in
exercise physiology at Appalachian State Univer-

sity.

TREVOR P. HILDEBRAND isa second lieuten-
ant in the U.S. Army.

ERICA L. INGERSOLL is the day manager at
The Bone, a new restaurant in Lexington, Va.

D. LEANNE JONES is attending Harvard Medical
School in the Ph.D. program in molecular genetics
and microbiology. She lives in Cambridge, Mass.

ALMENA C. McGOWIN is attending the
Gemological Institute of America and lives in Los
Angeles.

MARJOLANE MERRYWEATHER is attending
law school at the University of Baltimore.

SCOTT E. MILLER is studying psychology in
graduate school at the University of Georgia.

SHERRI L. MILLER is pursuing a doctorate in
botany from Duke University.

KEVIN D. MORRISON is a financial analyst with
Bowles Hollowell Conner & Co. in Charlotte, N.C.

ELLEN B. PEARSON is in the genetic counseling
program at the University of South Carolina.

JAMES H. PIKE is attending law school at Wash-
ington and Lee.

LAURA A. PILACHOWSKI works as a sales rep-
resentative for T. Talbott Bond Co. in Baltimore.

CHRISTOPHER R. PRIOR is a clerk in the civil
rights division of the U.S. Justice Department.

RASHMI SACHAN (see KRISTEN E. HARING,
90).

MARC T. SHORT is national director of Young
America’s Foundation.

JOHN G. SIMONTON is working for Marasco
Newton Group Ltd., which does consulting work
for the Environmental Protection Agency. He lives
in Arlington, Va.

EDWARD F. SMITH is attending law school at
the University of Baltimore.

TRACEY D. THORNBLADE isan editorial assis-
tant for John Wiley & Sons, Inc. in New York City.

M. ELIZABETH VALLOTTON is a corporate
associate with First Union Bank.

W. KELLY VANDEVER is pursuing a doctoral
degree in industrial and organizational psychology
from the University of Tulsa.

JULIA C. VENNES is attending Wake Forest
University’s Babcock School of Management.

ERIKA J. VOLKERDING works for Kemron En-
vironmental Services in Atlanta.

E. CRAIG WAITES JR. works for NationsBank in
Columbia, S.C.

CAROLINE E. WALKER is a first-year law stu-
dent at Samford University in Birmingham, Ala.

WILLIAM H. WEST III is in the mortgage bank-
ing training program with Enterprise Mortagage in
Virginia Beach, Va.

R. CLINTON WHEELOCK is an Educational
Leadership Consultant for Lambda Chi Alpha In-
ternational Fraternity in Indianapolis.

E. DALE WYATT is pursuing a doctorate in poly-
mer science from the University of Connecticut.

Law: M. PEEBLES HARRISON is an associate
with the Richmond law firm of Williams, Mullen,
Christian & Dobbins.

Law: JEFFERSON EDWARD HOWETH works
for the law firm of Crowe & Dunlevy in Tulsa, Okla.

Law: KATHLEEN M. McLAUGHLIN isclerking
in the county judge’s office in Annapolis, Md.

Law: GREGORY DEAN WILLETT has joined
the law firm of Strang, Fletcher, Carriger, Walker,
Hodge, & Smith in Chattanooga, Tenn.

 

 

 

Marnages

 

MORTON P. ILER, ’57, and Jeanne Duke, on
May 16, 1992, in San Pedro, Calif. The best man
was Gordon (Ike) Iler, 51, and the service was
conducted by the Rev. David Comegys Jr., 54. The

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 49

couple lives in the Los Angeles area, where ller is a
financial and management consultant.

W. BRADNEY GRIFFIN, ’74L, to Cristina F.
Lussi, on Nov. 30, 1991, in Lake Placid, N.Y. In
attendance were H. Vaughan Griffin Jr., ’70L, and
Richard T. Noulfe, ’°76L. The couple lives in
Meudon, Vt., where they are partners in the law
firm of Griffin & Griffin Ltd.

PAUL J. LANCASTER, ’75, to Christine E. Koch,
on July 19, 1992, at Mountain Lake, Va.

RICHARD T. ZINK, ’78, and Beverly Creamer, on
March 28, 1992, in Baltimore. Zink is associate vice
president of investments with Legg, Mason, Wood,
& Walker in Towson, Md.

STEPHEN LEE BROUDY, ’80, to Stacy S.
Fineberg, on July 27, 1992. The couple lives in
Virginia Beach, Va.

BRANT L. CHARLES, ’80, to Marilyn Sue Etkins,
on June 21, 1992. The wedding party included
Wayne Welch, 80, and Edward Kramer, 81. Charles
is the owner and President of Charco Investments,
Ltd, a financial management firm.

STEPHEN R. KERN, ’80, to Carol Spearman, on
May 1, 1992, in Bryn Mawr, Pa. In attendance were
Peter Kingsberry, ’80, and Dana Samuelson, ’80.
The couple lives in Cherry Hill, N.J.

H. FREDERICK T. MOORE, ’80, to Elizabeth
Trice, on July 11, 1992, in Richmond, Va. The
wedding party included classmates Murray G.
McClintock, James C. Crumbliss, Carter H. Tucker,
David E. Constine, Thomas R. Wall IV, and Ed-
ward C. Morrison, as well as Tim J. Manson, ’79, and
Timothy T. Moore, ’76. The groom’s father is ‘Tom
Moore Jr., 45. Also in attendance were Professor
John Evans of the W&L English Department and
William W. Paxton, ’80, of the Development Of-
fice. The Rev. Robert Palmer Trice II, ’74, pre-
sided over the ceremony. ‘The couple lives in
Winston-Salem, N.C.

CRAIG W. KENNELLY, ’81, to Catherine Ann
Armstrong, on June 13, 1992, in Garden City, N.Y.
Kennelly is an international securities trader for the
Kleinert Benson Group, a London investment bro-
kerage.

CHRISTOPHER W. DAVIS, ’82, and Natalia
Christine Armani, on March 27, 1992, in San Fran-
cisco. The couple lives in Rolling Hills Estates,
Calif.

MELVILLE P. COTE JR.,’84, and Anne J. Reiter,
on Sept. 1, 1991. The couple lives in Malden, Mass.,
where Cote works for the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency in Boston.

DR. THOMAS J. FRANKFURTH, ’84, and Julie
Knight, on April 4, 1992, in ‘Tampa, Fla. ‘The couple
lives in Tampa, where Frankfurth has his own
dental practice.

CHRISTOPHER H. BROOKS, ’85, and Lindsey
Jory, on June 15, 1991, in Gibson Island, Md. ‘The
couple lives in Raleigh, N.C., where Brooks is a
regional manager for First Source Inc., an envi-
ronmental services company that specializes in on-
site recycling of industrial solvents.

JAMES L. WILLIAMS JR.,’85, to Mary Katherine
Griffith, on July 25, 1992. ‘The wedding party in-
cluded classmates Clark Lewis, Thomas Fitzgerald,

50 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

and Lex Fitzenhagen, as well as Stephen Best, '86.
The couple lives in Dallas.

JOSEPH D. (DAIN) DULANEY Jr., ’86, to Kim
Greene, on May 16, 1992, in Charlotte, N.C. The
wedding party included classmates Dr. Scott Boyd
and James White, as well as Brainard Judd Hart-
man, ’85.

GREGORY L. ANDRUS, ’87, and Sherry Barber,
on May 30, 1992. The couple lives in Rochester,
N.Y. Andrus works as a geologist and project man-
ager at A.G. Environmental Technology & Ser-
vices Inc. in Canandaigua, N.Y.

ANDREW J. TARTAGLIONE, °87, to Dawn
Wellington, on June 13, 1992, in Maryville, Mo.
Ronald Curry, °87, served as the best man.
Tartaglione recently graduated from the Kirksville
College of Osteopathic Medicine and will serve an
internship year at the Chicago Osteopathic Hospi-
tal & Medical Center. The couple lives in the
Chicago area.

HOBART P. BAUHAN, ’88, and Ginna Schenck,
on April 25, 1992, in Greensboro, N.C. The wed-
ding party included classmates Mike Henry, Jordan
Josey, Kramer Litvak, and Pat Schaefer. Bauhan is
currently legislative director for Congressman
George Allen.

ERIK S. COOPER, ’88, and Betsy Vita, on Nov. 16,
1991, in Norfolk, Va. ‘The wedding party included
Charles Nusbaum, ’87, David Hager, ’88, and Frank
King, °89. The couple lives in Norfolk, where
Cooper works as a branch officer for Crestar Bank.
Cooper is also assistant to Townsend Oast, ’52, the
compliance officer for community development in
the Eastern Region of Crestar.

MARK L. FARLEY, ’88, to Dawn Paula Whewell,
on May 29, 1992, in Pittsburgh.

RALSTON B. FITLER III, ’88, to Wendi Gail
Garrity, on July 18, 1992. In attendance were
classmates Richard Norris, Gar Prebor, Sandy
Harrison, and Roger Reynolds. ‘The couple lives in
Wexford, Pa.

DAVID S. MAKEPEACE, ’88, and Lee Pleasants,
on March 21, 1992, in Raleigh, N.C. The wedding
party included classmates Bryan Moore, Fletcher
Roberts, and Roger Reynolds. Makepeace is a
commercial lending officer with NCNB in Flo-
rence, S.C.

JOHN D. METZ, ’88, to Cara Harbecke, on April
18, 1992, in Williamsburg, Va. ‘The wedding party
included Paul Schlimm, Michael Carter, and Charles
Groh of the class of 1987, and Terence O’Brien, ’90.

DONALD P. NIMEY II, °88, to Anne Marie
Hughes, on Aug. 8, 1992. The wedding party in-
cluded classmates Eugene Stephenson, Peter
Burke, and Norman Umila. The couple lives in
Alexandria, Va.

WILLIAM G. PAYNE, ’88, to Jennifer Humphrey
Payne, on June 27, 1992. Payne attends the J.L.
Kellogg Graduate School of Management at North-
western University.

JAMES M. RALLO,’88, to Kimberly L. Patterson,
on Aug. 1, 1992, in Lee Chapel. The wedding party
included classmates John Nozemack, John Packett,
Michael McEvoy, and Robert Drake. Rallo is a
supervising accountant with Grant Thornton in
McLean, Va.

MATTHEW B. UPTON, ’88, and Sue Ann
Crowder, on May 9, 1992. The couple lives in
Charleston, W.Va., where both are doing a three.
year residency at Charleston Area Medical Center
Upton specializes in internal medicine.

DEAN C. BARRY, ’89, to Elizabeth Sarah Moran,
on July 11, 1992, in Bronxville, N.Y. Barry is a senior
manager at Sotheby’s in San Fransisco.

J. ALAN GREETER,’89, and Jennifer Woodcock,
on May 9, 1992, in Dallas. The wedding party
included David Surface and Gil Lackey from the
class of 1988. The couple lives in Nashville, Tenn.,
where Greeter works for Davis and Associates, an
advertising and public relations firm.

HARRY D. HALPERT, ’89, to Stacey Tinnell
Ward, on July 25, 1992, in Roanoke, Va. Included
in the wedding party was classmate Steven (Sid)
Udicious. The couple lives in Baltimore.

DANATHA HOFFMAN, ’89, to M. Gary Helm,
on April 11, 1992, in Raleigh, N.C. The wedding
party included classmates Keri Hinrichs Geary,
Leeann Flood Veatch, and Valerie Pierson. The
couple resides in ‘Topton, Pa.

MARGARET MARY PIMBLETT, ’89, and Jef-
frey Phillip Rhodes, on May 23, 1992, in Charles-
ton, S.C. The wedding party included classmate
Elizabeth J. Parkins. Pimblett works as a develop-
ment associate for the Woodruff Arts Center in
Atlanta.

JAMES MICHAEL SLOAT, ’89, to LAURA M.
MUSSER, ’92, on June 13, 1992, in Bel Air, Md.
Included in the wedding party were Cindy Heffern,
Emily Ecton, Emily Guerry, and Robin Dru of the
class of 1992, as well as John Boller, 89; Greg
Lyford, 91; Greg Dale, 89; and Scott J. Ferrell, ’87.
The couple lives in Durham, N.C.

WILLIAM E. (TOBY) ALLEN, ’90, to
CATHERINE ANNE HARRIS, ’92, on June 27,
1992, in Lee Chapel. Allen is pursuing a Ph.D. in
chemistry at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill.

H. WESLEY GOINGSIII, 90, to Dolly Creekmore,
on Feb. 29, 1992, in Jackson, Miss. The wedding
party included classmates Chris Giblin, Chris
Pennewill, Jack Pringle, Robert Walker, and Harlan
Winn. The couple lives in Birmingham, Ala.

N. BURKE HOWELL, ’90, and LEIGH ANNE
NETTERVILLE, ’90, on July 25, 1992, in Baton
Rouge, La. The wedding party included Andy
Howell, ’89, and Kelly Shifflett Simpson and Col-
leen Ryan of the class of 1990. The couple lives in
Winston-Salem, N.C., where Howell attends the
Bowman Gray School of Medicine.

MATTHEW CRUM, ’91L, to Lisa Carole Fisher,
on June 20, 1992, in Richmond, Va. He isa practic-
ing attorney with the law firm of Robinson and
McElwee. They live in Charleston, W.Va.

HARRY H. H. PENNERIII, 91, to Jennifer Tay-
lor on July 20, 1991, in Charlottesville, Va. Penner
will complete graduate school at New York Univer-
sity in December.

O. GRAY RAND III, ’91, to MARCY ANNE
BROWN, ’92, on July 31, 1992, in Portland, Ore.
The wedding party included Armando Benincasa,
92, and Jennifer Gladwell, 93. The couple lives in
Pullman, Wash., where Rand is pursuing a master’s

degree in environmental science at Washington
State University.

CATHERINE ANNE HARRIS, "92 (see WIL-
LIAM E. ALLEN, ’90).

CHRISTOPHER D. JACKSON, ’92, and Carolyn
Joy Wills, on July 25, 1992, in Memphis, Tenn. The
wedding party included classmates Bryan Ward
Maedgen, Jason Dunbar Robertson, and Christo-
pher Taylor Sullivan. The couple lives in Mem-
phis, where Jackson is an analyst with Consulting
Services Group, LP.

LAURA M. MUSSER, ’92 (see JAMES MICHAEL
SLOAT, ’89 sidebar pg. 45)

 

 

. Births

MR. AND MRS. JOHN A. WOLF, ’69, 72L, a
daughter, Miriam Clair, on June 16, 1992. Wolf's
older daughter, Jessica, will be a freshman at W&L
in the fall. The family lives in Baltimore.

DR. AND MRS. GEORGE A. ROBERTSON,
70, a daughter, Katherine Jane, on Feb. 1, 1992.
The family lives in Doylestown, Pa.

MR. AND MRS. GEORGE R. JONES JR., °73,
their first child, George Rather III, on Oct. 22, 1991.
The family lives in Dallas.

DR. AND MRS. ROBERT A. SILVERMAN, ’73,
their first child, Elliott Morris, on Feb. 28, 1992.
The family lives in Fairfax, Va., where Silverman is
a pediatric dermatologist and a clincal associate
professor at Georgetown University in Washing-
ton, D.C.

MR. AND MRS. B. SPENCER HEDDENS III,
°75, a son, John Barrett, on Feb. 6, 1992. He joins his
sister, Elizabeth, 2. The family lives in Shawnee
Mission, Kan.

MR. AND MRS. THOMAS J. RITTENBURG,
75, a daughter, Jennifer Ann, on April 1, 1992, in
Pasadena, Calif. She joins a brother, Andrew Tho-
mas, 3, and a sister, Lauren Elizabeth, 1. The
family lives in Arcadia, Calif. Rittenburg is a part-
ner in the Los Angeles law firm of Lewis, D’Amato,
Brisbois & Bisgaard.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM B. WELLS, III, ’75,
a daughter, Ann Helen, on June 20, 1991. The
family lives in Greenville, S.C.

THE REV. AND MRS. DAVID T. ANDERSON,
'76, a daughter, Alexa Palmer, on May 12, 1992. She
joins her brother, Matthew, and sister, Meghan.
The family lives in Richmond, Va.

MR. AND MRS. MICHAEL J. MCDONOUGH,
'76, a daughter, Alexandra Lucretia, on March 21,
1992. She joins a sister, Cassandra, and brother,
Brent. McDonough is a bond salesman at McDonald
& Co. Securities. The family lives in Madison, N.J.

MR. AND MRS. RODERICK R. SCOTT, ’76,
twin boys, Terrance and James, on Feb. 2, 1992.
‘The family lives in Basking Ridge, N.J. Scott is a
data processing manager at AT&T, working in the
billing area for long distance services.

MR. AND MRS. E. NEAL CORY II, ’77, a daugh-
ter, Stewart Castleberry, on Dec. 27, 1991. The
family lives in Louisville, Ky.

MR. AND MRS. THEODORE L. UHLMAN, ’77,
a daughter, Kelsey, on May 5, 1992. The family
lives in Newtown, Pa.

MR. AND MRS. JULIAN H. GOOD, JR., ’78, a
daughter, Emily Louise, on Nov. 25, 1991. She
joins a sister Alison Weiland. The family lives in
New Orleans.

MR. AND MRS. HOWARD F. KNIPP III, ’78, a
daughter, Natalie Armistead, on Nov. 6, 1991. She
joins a sister, Barbara, 2. The family lives in Balti-
more, where Knipp is comptroller for Knipp & Co.,
an architectural millwork company established in
1868.

MR. AND MRS. BENJAMIN B.SWAN,’78,ason,
Ripley Fuhrer, on May 20, 1992. He joins a brother
Harry. The family lives in Brunswick, Maine.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES H. VEGHTE, ’78, a son,
Thomas James, on Dec. 23, 1991. Veghte and his
wife, Eileen, live in New York City.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT M. BURKHOLDER
JR., ’79, a daughter, Caroline Presley, on Aug. 27,
1991. Burkholder recently became associated with
Environmental Claims Administrators Inc., where
he handles environmental matters on a nationwide
basis. He and his wife, Kit, and two daughters live
in Unionville, Pa.

MR. AND MRS. RICHARD R. CROWDER, ’79L,
a daughter, Hannah Ruth, on May 12, 1992. She
joins sisters Rachel, 4, and Sarah, 3. The family
lives in Arlington, Va. Crowder is general counsel
of Allstate Financial Corporation, a financial services
company based in Arlington.

MR. AND MRS. MARK R. DAVIS, ’79L, a son,
Peter Stephen Davis, on Aug. 20, 1991. Peter joins
older brother, Timothy, 3. The family lives in
Richmond, Va.

MR. AND MRS. HARRY E. HALL, ’79, a daugh-
ter, Lindsay Lorraine, born on Dec. 13, 1991. She
joins a brother, Jordan Ellis, 3. The family lives in
Atlanta.

DR. AND MRS. M. TUCKER LAFFITTE III,
79, a son, Norris Lightsey II, on March 25, 1992.
The family lives in Columbia, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. TIMOTHY E. LAVELLE, ’79,
a daughter, Megan Elizabeth, on April 28, 1992.
She joins a brother, Ryan Timothy, 2. The family
lives in Raleigh, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. A CARTER MAGEE JR., ’79L,
a daughter, Julia Parles, on Nov. 14, 1991. She joins
a brother, Carter, 3.

MR. AND MRS. J.SCOTT McCANDLESS,’79L,
a daughter, Mary Katherine, on May 16, 1992. The
family lives in Fairway, Kan.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN F. McINTYRE JR., ’79L,
a son, Andrew Harry, on July 4, 1992, in West
Chester, Pa. He joins a brother, John F. III, age 6.

MR. AND MRS. R. BRUCE McPHAIL, ’79, a
daughter, Lindsay Grace, on Aug. 7, 1991. The
family lives in Baltimore.

Mr. AND MRS. J. EDWARD MOYLER III, ’79, a
son, James Edward IV, on Nov. 9, 1991. Moylerand
his wife, Charlotte, recently moved to Richmond,
Va., where they operate the Brandermill Inn, a 61-
suite hotel on the water. They can accomodate
small- to medium-size conferences and meetings in
a full service hotel only 15 minutes from downtown.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN P. STAFFORD, ’79, a
daughter, Hillary Lloyd, on July 29, 1992. She joins
a sister Meredith Mehard, 3. The family lives in
Pittsburgh.

MR. AND MRS. LANDON R. WYATT III, ’79, a
daughter, Margaret Beuton, on April 25, 1992. The
family lives in Charlotte, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. MARTIN F. BOWERS, ’80, a
son, Peter Delaplaine, on March 2, 1992. He joins
an older brother, Alexander Martin, 5. Bowers is an
investment broker with Legg Mason in Bryn
Mawr, Pa.

MR. AND MRS. MARK E. LOCKHART, ’80, a
son, Robin Bradshaw, on April 25, 1992. Lockhart
is a sales representative with Fisher Scientific. He
and his wife, Jeanette, live in Kennewick, Wash.

MR. AND MRS. E. PHILIP MANGUM JR., ’80, a
son, James Benjamin, on April 21, 1992. He joins
Philip, 10, William, 9, and Kathryn, 6. The family
lives in Memphis, Tenn., where Mangum is presi-
dent and general manager of Parsons Cabinet Co.
in Osceola, Ark.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN W. McALISTER, ’80, a
daughter, Lacy Reid, on March 9, 1992. McAlister
is currently the Director of Legislative and Political
Activities for Duke Power Company in Charlotte,
N.C.

MR. AND MRS. STEPHEN J. McCABE, ’80, a
son, David Raymond, on July 7, 1992, in Buffalo,
N.Y. He joinsa sister, Anne Louise, 3. McCabe was
recently promoted to assistant managing editor for
the publications department of Ecology and Envi-
ronment Inc. in Lancaster, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT W. PEARCE JR. ,’80,
a daughter, Kathryn McCain, on May 18, 1992. She
joins two older brothers, Robert, 5, and Richard 2.
Pearce is a corporate attorney with the law firm of
Clement, Rivers & Tisdale in Charleston, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. THOMAS R. SALLEY, III, ’80,
a daughter, Charlotte Whitcomb, on Dec. 15, 1991. She
joins a brother Lawton Phillips, 2. The family lives
in Washington, D.C.

LESLEY BROWN SCHLESS, ’80L, and her hus-
band, ERIC H. SCHLESS, ’80L, a son, Hendrick
Hugh, on March 27, 1992. Hank joins his older
sisters, Karina Holmes, 7, and Isabelle de Luppe, 4.
Eric is currently a managing director of investment
banking at Wheat First Securities in Richmond, Va.
Lesley recently stopped practicing law to spend
more time with the children.

MR. AND MRS. MARK D. SMITH, ’80, a son,
Hunter McMillen Cameron, on June 17, 1992. Smith
serves as the Executive assistant to Gen. John Galvin,
formerly the Supreme Allied Commander for the
U.S. Army in Europe. The family lives in Croton-
on-Hudson, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN R. STAGMAIER, ’80, a
daughter, Mary Angela, on April 4, 1992. The
family lives in Signal Mountain, ‘Tenn.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 51

MR. AND MRS. PETER B. TAYLOR, ’80, a son,
Matthew Aaron, on March 9, 1992. The family
lives in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, where Taylor is
director of business and finance at the King Faisal
School.

MR. AND MRS. R. CHRISTOPHER GAMMON ,
’81, a daughter, Elizabeth Betsy Louise, on May 7,
1992. She joins a sister, Sydnor, 3. ‘The family lives
in Charlotte, N.C., where Gammon is a corporate
banker with Wachovia Bank of North Carolina.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID B. IRVIN, ’81, a son,
John Arch, on Jan. 16, 1992. He joins a brother,
Taylor, 3. The family lives in Richmond, Va.

MR. AND MRS. A. WILLIAM MACKIE, ’81, a
daughter, Danielle Jessica, on Nov. 1, 1991. The
family lives in Rockville, Md., where Mackie is a
criminal trial attorney with the U.S. Department of
Justice.

MR. AND MRS. OLIVER (HUCK) P. NEW-
BERRY, III, a daughter, Marilyn Lindsey, on Sept.
5, 1991. The family makes its home in Fort Worth,
Texas.

MR. AND MRS. JONATHAN R. YALE, ’81, a
son, Andrew Jonathan, on June 9, 1992. The family
live in Glastonbury, Conn.

MR. AND MRS. PAUL M. BLACK, ’82, a daugh-
ter, Anna Christian, on May 27, 1992. She joins a
sister, Elizabeth, 2. The family lives in Roanoke,
Va.

MR. AND MRS. STEPHEN P. BURRINGTON,
*82, their first child, Katherine Read, on Oct. 14,
1991, in Arlington, Texas. The family lives in
Arlington, where Burrington is principal of interna-
tional banking at American Airlines Inc. He is
responsible for banking operations throughout Latin
America and the Caribbean.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID R. CORDELL, ’82, a
son, David Ryan Jr., on Dec. 24, 1991. The family
lives in Tulsa, Okla.

MRS. S. AMY ARBUCHOGRATTAN, ’82L, and
her husband, a daughter, Gilmer Wareing, on May
18, 1992. She joins a brother, Robert Peachy, 3.
The family lives in Richmond, Va.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN W. MARTIN, ’82, a son,
William Derek, on Nov. 13, 1991. The family lives
in Richmond, Va.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES B. McLAREN JR.,’82L,
a son, James Blackburn III, on April 22, 1992. The
family lives in Memphis, Tenn.

MR. AND MRS. W. PHILLIP ROCKE-
CHARLIE, ’82, twin girls, Hannah and Hayden,
on Feb. 21, 1992. They join brothers Ryan, 4, and
Taylor, 3. The family lives in Charlotte, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN P. WINANS, ’82, a daugh-
ter, Molly Anne, on March 20, 1992. Winans is a
regional sales director for Technology Funding, a
California-based venture capital firm. The family
lives in Bowie, Md.

MR. AND MRS. STEVEN A. DAUB, ’83, a son,
Brian Albert, on March 12, 1992. The family lives
in Minneapolis, where Daub works for the Yoplait
Division of General Mills. Brian Albert is the
grandson of Albert W. Daub, ’53.

52 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

DR. AND MRS. RAYMOND L. NICHOLS JR.,
’83, a daughter, Natalie Corinne, on Feb. 6, 1992.
The family lives in Florence, Ala., where Nichols is
beginning private practice in orthopedic surgery.

MR. AND MRS. CHRISTOPHER B. POWER,
’83, a son, Christopher Burr Jr., on Feb. 6, 1992.
The family lives in Charleston, W.Va.

MR. AND MRS. ANDREW E. CLARK, ’84, a
son, Joseph Hopkins, on Dec. 22, 1991. The family
lives in Ellicot City, Md.

MR. AND MRS. PAUL N. FARQUHARSON,
’84, a son, Ross McBride, on April 17, 1992. He
joins his sister, Virginia Michele, 3. Farquharson
recently joined the firm of Anderson, Kill, Olick &
Oshisky in Washington D.C.

MR. AND MRS. STEPHEN A. JONES, ’84, a
son, Andrew William, on May 10, 1992. The family
lives in Oakton, Va.

MR. AND MRS. DONALD W. RICHARDSON,
’84, a son, William Campbell, on Jan. 21, 1992.
Richardson recently completed his master’s de-
gree at the University of New Hampshire.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN E. TAYLOR III, ’84, a
son, John E. IV, on July 23, 1992. He joins a sister,
Katherine. The family lives in San Diego, Calif.

MR. AND MRS. JAMESB. TRIMBLE, ’84, ason,
George Ware, on Jan. 15, 1992. The family lives in
Washington, D.C.

MR. AND MRS. JAMESR. ABBEY, ’85L,adaugh-
ter, Caitlyn Cordelia, on Feb. 2, 1992. She joins a
brother Nicholas, 3. The family lives in Caro,
Mich.

DR. AND MRS. APOSTOLOS G. GREKOS, ’85,
a daughter, Olivia Alexandra, on March 25, 1992.
The family lives in Danville, Va.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM L. JOEL, ’85, a son,
Spencer MacDonald, on Jan. 15, 1992. He joins a
brother, William L. Jr., 5. The family lives in
Jacksonville, Fla.

MR. AND MRS. R. WILLIAM METZGER JR.,
’85, a son, William Lee, on Feb. 13, 1992. The
family lives in Columbia, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. CHARLES C. PITTS, ’85, a
daughter, Elizabeth Emory, on April 21, 1992. She
joins a brother, Charles Carpenter Jr., 3. Pitts is a
development manager with Complete Health Inc.
in Birmingham, Ala.

MR. AND MRS. FRED H. RENNER III, ’85, a
daughter, Eleanor Fleming, on July 27, 1992, in
Wheeling, W.Va. Renner is on the development
staff of Wheeling Jesuit College.

MR. AND MRS. W. WATSON BARNES JR., ’86,
a daughter, Elizabeth Pate, on March 20, 1992.
The family lives in Wilson, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. KENNETH DOUGLASS
MOYERS, ’86, a daughter, Nancy Douglass, on
July 14, 1992. The family lives in Richmond, Va.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM B. GILBERT, ’87,
their first child, William Barritt Jr., on March 31,
1992. The family lives in Augusta, Ga.

PAMELA SARSFIELD FOX, ’88L, and Dean
Fox, a daughter, Margaret Hamilton, on April 26,
1992. She joins a brother Dean Allen II, 3. The
family lives in Greensboro, N.C.

CAROLYN J. ARBOGAST GARNEAU, ’89, and
CRAIG O. GARNEAU, ’88, a son, Alexander, on
May 6, 1992. The family lives in Glastonbury
Conn.

 

 

 

ln Memoriam

HENRY F. TROTTER, ’20, former president of
Trotter Ford Lincoln Mercury, on July 15, 1992.
Trotter was a member of Kappa Alpha fraternity,
the Cotillion Club, and the Executive Committee.
He was amemberof First United Methodist Church
of Pine Bluff (Ark.), past president of the men’s
Bible class, and a member of the church board of
trustees. He also was a member of the board of
directors of Arkansas-Missouri Power Co., past presi-
dent of the Pine Bluff Chamber of Commerce, and
served as a member of the Arkansas Chamber of
Commerce.

 

GEORGE W. HALSTEAD JR., ’25, retired elec-
trical engineer for General Electric, on June 24,
1992. He was a member of the Scottish Rite and 32
Degree Mason. Healso was a member ofthe Palma
Ceia Methodist Church.

FINLEY W. McCLURE, ’27, on November 20,
1990.

ALLEN HARRIS JR., ’27, Johnson City, Tenn.,
business and community leader, on April 24, 1992.
Harris, a native of Johnson City, was a member of
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. After gradua-
tion, he earned a master’s degree in business from
Harvard University. During World War II, Harris
served on destroyers in the Navy, earning the rank
of lieutenant commander. He returned to Harris
Manufacturing Co., a national leader in producing
hardwood flooring and other hardwood products.
He eventually became president of Harris Manu-
facturing, working in that capacity for many years
until its sale in 1983. He then became vice chair-
man of the board of the company that bought Harris
Manufacturing. Harris was extrememly involved
in Johnson City community affairs. Through the
Harris Foundation, he had supported such projects
as the building of the Johnson City Boys Club, the
public library, the East Tennessee State University
Foundation, the Johnson City Medical Center
Foundation, and the Liberty Bell Tech Labs. He
also endowed achair of excellence at ETSU. Harris
was on numerous boards of community activities,
many involving ETSU and the Johnson City Medi-
cal Center. His many activities earned him the
Spirit of Johnson City Award in 1990 and induction
into the Chamber of Commerce Hall of Fame in
1983. ETSU presented him with the George L.
Carter Award in 1989. Harris was a lifelong Repub-
lican, and was offered the position of assistant
secretary of the Navy in 1956, which he declined.
He was also an avid hunter and world traveler. He
was a member and past senior warden and treasurer
of St. John’s Episcopal Church. The Johnson City
Press eulogized him as a “community giant” after
his death.

JAMESA. CASTNER, ’29, retired director of labor
relations for Standard Packaging Corp., on June 28,
1992. After his graduation from W&L, he attended

 

the St. Lawrence School of Law and then practiced
jaw in Newark with the firm of Newman, Kristeller
& Zucker before entering the Air Force in 1942 and
attaining the rank of lieutenant colonel. After the
war, he was employed by Macy’s and Baumbergers
until he joined Brown and Bigelow Standard Pack-
aging Corp. A former vice president of the New
York Alumni Chapter, Castner also served as a
yestryman in Grace Episcopal Church, on the ex-
ecutive council of the Red Cross, and on the town
school election board.

JOHN M. STECK JR., ’29, former orchardist, on
May 8, 1992. He was a member of Christ Episcopal
Church and served on the vestry. Steck also served
on the Winchester (Va.) City Council and chaired
the finance committee for 12 years. He was for-
merly a member of the board of trustees of Win-
chester Memorial Hospital and a member of the
Winchester Regional Health Systems, Inc. Steck
was affiliated with the Virginia Apple Storage from
its inception in 1929 and was a manager until his
retirement.

JOE C. BROADUS, ’30, former senior vice presi-
dent of the Petroleum Corp. of Delaware and director
of Tenneco Off-Shore Corp. He was a member of
Kappa Alpha fraternity. Following graduation he
attended Harvard Business School and was em-
ployed by the Third National Bank of Nashville
before entering the U.S. Navy, where he attained
the rank of commander. Broadus then joined the
Chase National Bank, ultimately becoming vice
president of the petroleum department interna-
tional division. He was active in the affairs of the
Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church and served on
the board of the Youth Counseling League.

WILLIAM G. TARRANT JR., ’30, retired phar-
macist and former owner of Tarrant Drug Co., on
July 4, 1992. He was a member of Phi Kappa Sigma.
After graduation, he went on to the Medical Col-
lege of Virginia School of Pharmacy. Tarrant was a
former president of the Richmond (Va.)
Parmaceutical Association and former instructor in
pharmacy at MCV from 1941-42. In 1943, he was
commissioned a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy and
served as a gunnery officer. He was a former
member of the Richmond Board of Health and the
board of directors of the central Richmond Associa-
tion. Tarrant was a member of the First Baptist
Church and formerly served on the board of direc-
tors for the Richmond Host Lions Club.

ELBERT E. HALL, ’31, former mayor of Abilene
and recipientof the Distinguished Alumnus Award, on
May 31, 1992, in Abilene, Texas. He was a member
of Kappa Sigma fraternity. Following his gradua-
tion in 1931, he returned to Abilene where he
became a partner in the the U.S. Army Air Corps
from 1942-45. Hall devoted enormous amounts of
his time to the betterment of the Abilene commu-
nity. He was founder of the Children’s Develop-
ment Center and the Taylor County Society for
Crippled Children. He served on the Texas Board
for Mental Health Retardation, and was chairman
of the State Board for Hospitals and Special Schools.
He also participated actively in education as Trustee
of the Abilene Independent School District, mem-
ber of the board of directors of the Region 14
Education Service Center, and he was the recipient
of the Friend of Education Award for his involve-
ment in the school integration problem. Hall’s
cultural activities included service as president of
the Abilene Fine Arts Museum, and participation

in numerous performances with the Abilene Com-
munity Theatre. He also served as president of the
Abilene Chamber of Commerce, on the board of
the West Central Texas Municipal Water District
and as senior warden of his church. In 1981, Hall
was elected mayor of the City of Abilene (pop.
100,000), named Outstanding Citizen of the Year
by the Chamber of Commerce and also received
the highest award given by the State of Texas toa
layman, the Liberty Bell Award.

SIDNEY KELLER, ’32, former retail merchant in
Portsmouth, Va., on January 12, 1992. A veteran of
the U.S. Navy during World War II, he was active in
the Lions Club, Elks, American Legion, and the
Jewish War Veterans of the U.S.

JULIAN A. LEVY, °32, on May 31, 1992. After
graduating from W&L, he joined his family’s retail
clothing business, where he stayed for 50 years.
After selling his shares in the business, he became
vice president of public relations for a local travel
agency. Levy was active in his community as
chairman of Galveston’s greatest Oleander Festival
and as director of Galveston’s Beach Board. He
served as president of the Galveston Artillery Club,
the Tandem Club, the Galveston Retail Merchant’s
Association, the United Way, and the Salvation
Army. He also was a member of Rotary Interna-
tional, and a charter member of the Junior Chamber
of Commerce.

THE HON. O. RAYMOND CUNDIFF, ’33L,
retired judge of the 24th Judicial Circuit of Virginia,
on May 12, 1992. An active member of Sigma Phi
Epsilon, he served as the first Judge for the Juvenile
Court of the City of Lynchburg before being ap-

 

Earl T. Jones, long-
time friend and benefac-
tor of the University and
“life-time Class Agent
Emeritus” for the Class
of 1930, died July 5 in
Morehead City, N.C.,
after a brief illness.

Earl T: Jones, ’30

1907-92

Jones received the title of “lifetime Class Agent
emeritus” from his classmates at their 50th Reunion
celebration. Through his efforts, the Class of 1930
earned the Richmond Trophy for highest participation
in annual giving three years in a row.

Jones was the former president of Jesse Jones
Sausage Co., the family sausage business that he and
his brother, Garland, moved to Raleigh, N.C., in 1949.

 

Jones’ many gifts to
the University created a
major scholarship en-
dowment for students
from North Carolina who
might otherwise have been
unable to attend Washington and Lee.

Jones served W&L as chairman of his class’s then-
record-setting 50th Reunion gift in 1981, which had a
92 percent participation rate, the highest ever attained
at that time. He also was a founding member of the
Washington and Lee Estate Planning Council, a
Robert E. Lee Associate since 1975, and a member of
the General’s Council. He was inducted into the
Alpha Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa in 1981.

 

The son of Major Jesse Jones and Annie
Richardson Jones, Jones was a native of Dry Fork, Va. He
attended W&L for three years, financing his education
by selling ham sandwiches and sodas to fraternities. A
story has it that Jones made his ham extra spicey,
thereby forcing his customers to buy more drinks. His
fellow students often made checks out to him in the
name of Earl “Tightwad” Jones.

His sense of purpose in supporting higher educa-
tion could be summed up in his words following the
announcement of his class’s gift in 1980:

“This money helps to pay the tuition of students
who can’t quite afford to go here—among other
things—and this helps to make Washington and Lee
academically stronger.”

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 53

 

pointed Judge of the Circuit Court in Lynchburg,
Va., in 1961. Even after his retirement in 1981,
Judge Cundiff continued to work part time as a
substitute judge in Lynchburg.

JEBS. DARBY JR., 33 former administrative assis-
tant to the president of Cutler-Hammer Inc., on
Feb. 27, 1992. Darby was a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha, and following graduation, he attended the
Massachusetts Institute of ‘Technology. He spent
30 years at Cutler-Hammer, taking an early retire-
ment in 1966.

DR. JOHN T. JARRETT, °34, former medical
director for Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone
Co. of Virginia, on May 15, 1992. Jarrett was a
member of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity, the Sigma
society, and Omicron Delta Kappa. Following his
graduation, he attended the Medical College of
Virginia and went on to practice medicine for the
Navy, on an aircraft carrier in the Pacific. He left the
Navy after World War II and continued his practice
in Charleston, W.Va., until 1963, when he began his
work with the C&P Telephone Co. In 1975, Dr.
Jarrett joined the staff at McGuire Veterans Affairs
Medical Center. He was a member of the Rich-
mond Academy of Medicine, the Medical Society
of Virginia, and the River Road Presbyterian Church
in Richmond.

GEORGE A. PRUNER, ’34, attorney, on March
21, 1991, in Bristol, Va. Pruner practiced law in
Lebanon, Va., from graduation to shortly before the
time of his death. He represented Russell County
in the House of Delegates from 1940-42, and served
as commonwealth’s attorney of Russell County
from 1963-79. He was active in several Southwest
Virginia historical societies.

WALTER R. BEALES, JR., ’36, former owner and
operator of Boydton Department Store and the
Walter R. Beales Jr. Insurance Agency. Beales was
amember, former trustee, and Administrative Board
Chairman of Boydton United Methodist Church.
He also was active in the Chamber of Commerce.
Beales was a member of Sigma Nu fraternity.

HARRY L. FITZGERALD JR., ’36L, on June 4,
1992. He was a Phi Beta Kappa, president of the
School of Law, and all-America first baseman at
W&L. He played briefly with the St. Louis Car-
dinals, was a James Joyce Scholar and Lecturer. He
spent most of his life in the oil business.

WILLIAM H. ARMENTROUT, ’37, Rockbridge
County educator, on March 29, 1992. A native of
Rockbridge Baths, Armentrout began his career in
education in 1940, as principal ofa two-room, seven-
grade school in Virginia. He was drafted into the
U.S. Army, serving five years, including one in the
Philippine Islands, before returning to the U.S. to
be principal of Goshen Elementary and High School
in Rockbridge County. He received a master’s
degree in education from the University of Virginia
in 1950, and worked as a principal for a year in
Hanover County, eight years in Frederick County,
and spent five years in Germany with the Overseas
Dependent Schools. He came back to Rockbridge
County and spent 13 years as a school principal
before retiring in 1978.

RICHARD B. CARLL, ’37, former certified public
accountant and partner in the firm of MacAlpine,
Carll, Rosenello, Punshon & Co., a Philadelphia-
based accounting firm, on Nov. 20, 1990. He was
active in the Rotary Club and was a member of the
Geographic Society.

54 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

STANLEY R. KOSS, °37, retired vice president of
Houbigant in New York and Paris, on May 13, 1992,
in Winter Park, Fla. Koss was a member of the Beta
Theta Pi fraternity. He was a member of the Board
of Governors of the Englewood Field Club and the
Lions Club.

ALEXANDER MCINTOSH, °37, former boiler-
maker, on May 30, 1992. After leaving W&L,
McIntosh spent 40 years supervising the installation
and repair of high pressure steam boilers, nuclear
installations, and atomic reactors for Babcock &
Wilcox. He was a member of the board of deacons
for the Old Stone Congregationalist Church in East
Haven, Conn.

ROBERT K. PEFFER, ’37, retired Pennsylvania
Turnpike executive, on April 30, 1992. After leav-
ing W&L, Peffer went on to Grove City College
where he graduated in 1937 with a degree in politi-
cal science and history. He worked for Lancaster
Electric Co. from 1938 to 1959, except for a stint in
the U.S. Army from 1942 to 1946. In 1959, Peffer
joined the Turnpike Commission as an internal
auditorand ultimately reached the position of deputy
executive director of operations. He was a member
of the First Presbyterian Church, the Donegal So-
ciety, Phi Gamma Delta, the American Numis-
matic Society, the American Philatelic Society,
American Legion Post 56, and the International
Bridge, Tunnel and Turnpike Association. He was
also a member and past president of the Millersville
Lion Club.

R. MINOR FROST, ’41, former sales representa-
tive for the Magnus Chemical Co. of New Jersey
and owner of Hampshire Personnel Services, on
June 10, 1992. Frost was a member of the Delta
Upsilon fraternity. He served as chairman of the
Board of Appeals and president of the Rotary Club
in Williamsburg, Mass. An active member of St.
John’s Episcopal Church, he was a communicant
and served on the vestry.

JOHN G. FOX, °44, ’49L, former West Virginia
attorney general and business executive, on March
25, 1992, in Washington, D.C. Fox was a member
of Sigma Nu fraternity. He served as an Army
combat engineer in Europe during World War II,
and was a veteran of the Normandy invasion and
the Battle of the Bulge. He practiced law in West
Virginia, representing Fayetteville, W.Va., in the
West Virginia legislature in the early 1950s. In
1952, at the age of 29, he became the youngest attor-
ney general in West Virginia history, serving for five
years. He moved to New York in 1957 to become
general counsel for AT&T before returning to
West Virginia a year later as general attorney for
Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Co. He went
to Washington, D.C., in 1961, becoming assistant
vice president and attorney for AT&T. Fox was a
partner in the Washington law firm of Reasner,
Davis and Fox at the time of his death. He was
active in Democratic Party politics, having made an
unsuccessful bid for the U.S. Senate in 1956. He
served on the boards of the National Symphony
Orchestra and the Washington Opera, in addition
to membership in several other civic and social
organizations.

ROBIN W. CHAMNESS, ’45, former industrial
sales representative for the Union Oil Co., on No-
vember 14, 1991. He was a member of Delta Tau
Delta fraternity. He served in World War II in the
African and Italian campaigns. Chamness was a
member of Rotary International and served as a
vestryman in the Episcopal Church.

FREDERICK P. LOEFFLER, ’46, former news-
paper editor, on April 16, 1992. Loeffler began his
studies at W&L in 1942, but then served in the
Navy during World War II. He returned to W&L
and graduated in 1948. He joined the Roanoke Times
that year, becoming state editor in 1950. In 1
Loeffler became a copy editor, a job he held through
a merger of his paper and the Roanoke World-News.
He retired in 1988, but continued to work part time
for the paper until 1991.

BILLY S. HOLLAND, ’48L, attorney, on March
31, 1992. Holland was an advisor to the Commis-
sioner of Patents, concerning governmentemployee
invention rights.

ROBERT M. PATTERSON, ’48L, president and
chairman of the board of C.J. Patterson Co., a food
ingredient and specialty chemical company, on
May 10, 1991, in Shawnee Mission, Kan. He was a
member of Phi Delta Theta. He is a past director of
‘Traders National Bank, CBK Industries, Torrance
County (N.M.) Land and Livestock Co., the
American Institute of Baking, and St. Luke’s Hos-
pital in Kansas City.

F. EUGENE FOSTER JR., 49, retired vice presi-
dent and controller of Union Envelope Co., on July
16, 1992. While at W&L, Foster majored in ac-
counting and was active in the Glee Club and
Forensic Union, and he also served as a dorm
counselor for two years. Following graduation he
joined the Union Envelope, in Richmond, Va.,
where he stayed until his retirement. He was past
commander of American Legion Post No. 84.

KIM CLARK, ’50, retired lobbyist for the Associa-
tion of American Railroads, on March 6, 1992. His
career began as a reporter, but he joined the staff of
Rep. William R. Hull (D-Mo.) in 1957 as an admin-
istrative assistant. He spent 11 years as a lobbyist
before retiring in 1983 and becoming chairman of
the Arlington County Sports Commission.

JOHN E. KANNAPELL JR., °51, businessman
and former mayor of Glenview, Ky., on May 1, 1992.
He was a member of the Phi DeltaTheta fraternity.
After graduation, he joined Brown-Forman Dis-
tillers, and worked there for seven years. He joined
the advertising firm of Erwin Wasey, Ruthraff and
Ryan Inc. as an account executive, and was later
appointed vice president to handle Brown-Forman’s
advertising. In 1965, he joined Glenmore Distilleries
as an advertising manager, and in 1967 he was
named vice president of advertising and director of
corporate relations. He later went on to form his
own advertising firm, Kannapell Advertising &
Design Co. Kannapell became mayor of Glenview
when the city, located just outside of Louisville,
Ky., became incorporated in 1985. He mostrecently
served as public relations co-chairman of Scenic
Kentucky, a conservation group that began a cam-
paign to clear Kentucky roadsides of “billboard
pollution.”

JOSEPH T. MACKEY, ’5S2, retired captain for
Trans World Airlines, in Bay St. Louis, Mo.

BRANTLEY F. BARR, JR., ’53, former vice presi-
dent and manager of public finance at the Hunting-
ton National Bank in Columbus, Ohio, on May 16,
1992. While at Washington and Lee, he was a
member of Phi Eta Sigma, president of Kappa
Sigma, and worked with the Interfraternity Coun-
cil. After receiving his B.A. from the Commerce
School, Barr held several management positions in
marketing, public relations, and customer relations
with AT&T. Before his association with Hunting-

 

 

A ie Eee, te

fi ee ee

ee .
= J TIEN.

«3
a

B.S. Stephenson, °42

1923-92

Buford S. “Steve”
Stephenson, ’42, professor
emeritus of German at
Washington and Lee, died
June 23 in Roanoke, Va.,
following a brief illness.
He was 69 years old.
A native of Sampson
County, N.C., Stephenson
received his degree in Ger-
man, French, and Spanish.
He later earned a master’s
degree in German from the
University of Minnesota.
Following a short stint with the Army Air Force, Stephenson
returned to Washington and Lee in 1946 as a member of
the German department. He retired as professor and
head of the German department in 1991.

As a student at W&L, Stephenson was a member of
the Kappa Sigma fraternity, the Glee Club, and worked
for The Ring-tum Phi. \n 1949, Stephenson founded the
W&L Concert Guild, a concert series that regularly
brings out-standing performers in music to the campus.

Throughout his career at Washington and Lee,
Stephenson demonstrated that unfailing dedication to

his craft that is the hallmark of all great teachers. It was
with that in mind that he once said of his future obituary:
“When I die, the notice should say, ‘B.S. Stephenson
died today. He loved teaching.’ Next obituary.”

He combined his love of both teaching and his stu-
dents with the other passions in his life—music, cook-
ing, and gardening. His dinner parties for students and
colleagues helped make him a legend at Washington
and Lee.

“I’m a dyed-in-the-wool teacher, but I’m a born
farmer,” Stephenson said in a 1989 W&L article. “There
are two things in life that make me happy: seeing a
student catch on and make progress and getting my
hands in the earth. The two things have something in
common. Seeing a student grow and fostering that
growth is like helping a flower or tree to grow. It’s the
same thing.”

Although shy by nature, Stephenson went out of his
way to befriend students. That special student-faculty
relationship, Stephenson believed, was and is at the
essence of the W&L experience.

“The accessibility of faculty to students here is just
about the greatest thing we have to offer a student,”
Stephenson said. “I always look on my stduents as my
friends and worthy of my friendship.”

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer
and dark pine stain. The five color crest of the University is painted on the
back of each chair or rocker. They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture
and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas, birthdays, graduation,
anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair goes to the
scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR BOSTON ROCKER

© Black lacquer with cherry arms © Black lacquer
© Dark pine © Dark pine
$235.00 $220.00

THE BOSTON ROCKER REQUIRES SOME ASSEMBLY.
Prices include freight charges.

To order: Include your name, address, your telephone number, and a
telephone number, if known, for the delivery location. Indicate chair or
rocker and color. Make check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Please
allow 6-8 weeks delivery.

Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

[D0 YOU KNOW ANYONE LISTED HERE?

CLASS OF 1973

John J. Aaron

John M. Ashley

Dr. Alan W. Black
Kirk A. Bowers
James H. Brooks Jr.
Douglas G. Burton
William R. Chilton
Ray T. Clements
Kenneth L. Coghill Jr.
William D. Emma
Stephen S. Garriss
David A. Gilbert
William T. Gilland Jr.
Robert F. Harrold
William C. Hemphill
Willard H. Henson
Gordon L. Hunt
Timothy D. Junkin
Stephen W. Klopp
Kurt M. Krumperman
David H. Laughlin
Richard M. Marsh Jr.
Raymond J. McGrath
Thomas H. McMillan Jr.
Dennis W. Michaud
Norwood E. Paukert Jr.
Francis A. Porter
Oakey L. Pruett Jr.
Joseph H. Ramsey Jr.
Roy L. Rike

Thomas |. Rubel

A.P. Smithwick Jr.
Sidney S. Sutton
Munford L. Topping
Francis F. Whittle III
Stephen M. Williams
Branch L. Wingeart III
Albert F. Winkler
Stephen C. Worth

CLASS OF 1973L

John R. Bagby
Austin T. Graves Jr.

CLASS OF 1978

David A. Addison
Jeffrey V. Badgett
Mark A. Bradley
Dr. Paul B. Brock
Eamon G. Cassell
Kevin B. Connor
Stuart L. Craig Jr.
Charles H. Daggs III
Mark W. Danos
Reynolds Dods
Robert W. Evans II
William J. Evans
John C. Gorden

he individuals whose names

appear on this page are listed as

“unlocated” in W&L’s alumni

records. If you have a current address for

any of these alumni, please do us—and

them—a favor and send word to the Alumni

Office, Washington and Lee University,

Lexington, VA 24450.

William P. Harris
J.W. Hauprich
Edward W. Hellier III
Gregory D. Higgins
Charles E. Hoover
Joseph M. Jardine
Toshikuni Kaneto
Donald M. MacLeod
Harry A. Mazaheri
Glenn A. Miller
Richard D. Nave
Douglas D. Neumann
David W. Norland
Carlos A. Peniche
Raymond R. Petersen
Stephen J. Pittenger
Thomas G. Reich
Peter A. Ringel

Curt B. Sharp

David P. Simon
Dennis A. Sperduto
Curtis E. Stewart
David W. Talley Jr.
Chris R. Walker
William H. Wendt
Steven A. Wilson

CLASS OF 1978L

Scott L. Hamilton
Myron Kellogg
J.P. Lockard II
William E. Murphy

Iris Nagin
Michael L. Price

CLASS OF 1983

Philip J. Alletto
William J. Archer II
Alan S. Armitage
Anderson D. Barrett
Russell A. Brand
John F. Chaffe Jr.
James F. Cherrybone
Robert A. Crawford
David C. Dallam
John R. Doub
Timothy M. Eddy
Thomas D. Elder Jr.
Rupert A. Fairfax
James H. Fischer
John D. Fort
William F. Hogan
David W. Jones
Wilbur B. Martin Ill
Eymundur Matthiasson
Kevin R. McClernon
Eric C. Melvin

William W. Pinner Jr.
Thomas M. Price
Christopher A. Russo
John J. Sancilio
George W. Sisson Ill
Scott A. Slade

Mark A. Smith
Jeffrey D. Snyder
Thomas H. St. Clair
Nicholas W. Teare
John B. Tunney
David W. Tyson
Alton H. Wallace
Paul E. Wilson
Elmer R. Woodard III

CLASS OF 1983L

William E. Boyle
John F. Earley II
William L. Lanning
Prescott L. Prince
Richard D. Thompson

CLASS OF 1988

Bradford D. Ament
Andrew S. Ashton
William D. Calhoun
Anthony R. Cornealius
Richard P. Coyle
Darryl J. Evey

David M. Fagerness
Paulin C. Goebels
Gregory S. Hucka
James C. Johnson Ill
Robert J. Kelly

John S. Kirchner
Casey S. Krivor

Carl J. McKay

David H. Montgomery
John K. Moore Jr.
Gregory D. Russell
Glenn B. Smith

Troy W. Snelling
Bradley G. Thompson
Norman R. Umila
Michael D. Webb

CLASS OF 1988L

Lisa L. Shaffer

Jane R. Smyth
Murray O. Stanton
Mark T. Stewart
Anne-Marie Testone
Thomas S. Wilkinson

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee University
Alumni Magazine

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

NON-PROFIT ORG
U.S.POSTAGE
ote?

PERMIT NO. 714
RAN ea UCR

 

 

