 

oe

°

 
        

 

 

 

FROM THE ALUMNI PRESIDENT

 

 

 

 

 

Dear Alumni,

I had the pleasure of repre-
senting you during the February
meeting of the Board of ‘Trustees
and the national kickoff of the
University’s recently announced
$127 million capital campaign,
which is to be called “On the
Shoulders of Giants.” I left that
weekend with a heightened sense of the strength
of W&L and the role that our University plays in
higher education. W&L has a well-deserved na-
tional reputation as one of the top small private
universities in the country.

Asamember of the Alumni Board over the last
four years, I have learned first hand of the very
important and compelling needs of our University.
“On the Shoulders of Giants” seeks to increase
endowment for, among other things, student finan-
cial aid, faculty salaries and research, the Robert E.
Lee research program, the University libraries, the
construction of a new science wing, and the reno-
vation of outdated athletic facilities. ‘These needs
do not fall into the category of “wish lists” or
“luxuries.” Rather, they are at the very heart of the
mission of Washington and Lee: superior teaching
and ongoing scholarship conducted in a small,
personal environment. This capital campaign is
about preserving and strengthening those ideals
that have made W&L strong. The University is
asking us now for our support to ensure W&L’s
strength well into the next century, and each of us
must respond generously when W&L calls.

I know some alumni believe that W&L is well-
off financially, that “it does not need their help,” an
attitude that I think has caused the percentages of
alumni that participate in W&L Annual Fund
drives and capital campaigns to be far less than
competing schools. In fact, comparatively speak-
ing W&L is not heavily endowed. As W&L looks
toward the future, it is clear that, unless it is

 

 

strengthened, its currentendowment will notallow
it to offer the kind of programs needed to maintain

the type of education that has earned W&L its
national reputation. While W&L enjoys a high
ranking as one of the finest small universities in the
nation, W&L ranks only 21stamong the top 25 liberal
arts colleges in terms of endowment dollars per
student. While W&L does not wish to be just like
Williams or Middlebury or Swarthmore or Davidson,
it certainly wants to be able to provide for students
in the same way. Unfortunately, that is not the case
at this time. In order to maintain its position as a
well-thought of and competitive liberal arts institu-
tion, Washington and Lee must increase its current
endowmenttoa level that will help sustain the Uni-
versity well into the 21st century.

It’s important for all of us to remember that not
a single one of us paid the full cost of our education
at W&L. Tuition fees have never covered the cost
of a Washington and Lee education, nor will they
ever do so. Just as our education was subsidized by
countless alumni who came before us, so too should
the students of today and tomorrow benefit from
our gifts.

I think that most alumniare quick to express their
fondness and loyalty toward W&L and most realize, as
Ido, thatour years at W&L were probably the most
important and beneficial years of our lives. I don’t
believe that I would have realized the joys and
successes of life without the lessons of honor and
integrity, the strong academic foundation, and the
great and lasting friendships given me by W&L. |
am certain that you feel the same way.

My question tothealumniconstituencyatlargeis,
“Are we willing to do what it takes to give the W&L
students of today the chance to operate from the same
position of strength we had?” I believe we are and we
have the perfect opportunity at hand to demon-
strate that loyalty. When you are solicited, please
be generous to the campaign, and above all, make
acontribution. It is time for us to come out in great
numbers to demonstrate our support for W&L. Let’s
join together to assure the future strength of Wash-
ington and Lee for generations to come.

Sincerely,

J. Richard O’Connell, ’56
President, W&L Alumni Association

 

 

gpg CONTENTS

276-715 VOLUME 67, NUMBER 1, SPRING 1992

W.3)7a le
v.67

4 On the Shoulders of Giants

WEL kicked off its historic $127 million capital campaign with parties, meetings, and presentations
in Washington, D.C.; the campaign’s aim is simple: to keep Washington and Lee strong.

10 A Funny Thing Happened...

WEL’s biggest, boomingest Mock Convention ever—from parties and politicos to marching bands
and talking heads— was a success in all sorts of ways.

17. —~A Place of Its Own

Don Baker, ’68, and his Lime Kiln Theater have carved out—literally—a place of their own, not
only in Lexington, but in all of outdoor theater, as well.

22 ‘The Generals’ Report

Washington and Lee’s winter sports season went just about according to preseason expectations, which
wasn't always good, but wasn’t always bad, either.

GAZETTE CLASS NOTES

26 Founders’ Day 41 Class Notes

35. The Bookshelf 59 Marriages

36 Law News 60 Births

37 Alumni News 61 In Memoriam
On the cover:

Writer Tom Wolfe speaks to Washington alumni gathered at the Mayflower
Hotel for the Washington area campaign kickoff in February. (Stories about
the campaign and the kickoff begin on p. 4)

 

AUG 06 2009

 

2 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

LET. tees

Fraternity Changes: Yea, Nay
EDITOR:

Congratulations on your excellent
article “Fraternity Renaissance: AChange
from Within” in the Winter 1991 issue. It
is reassuring to see that the University, at
all levels, has restored the system which
made W&L unique anda training ground
for this nation’s future leaders. By focus-
ing intellectual and financial resources
on the private, members-only system, the
University has at last repudiated the
mongrelization of our institutions sought
by the self-annointed “equalitarians.”

Clearly, with “more than 80 percent
of the freshman men pledging fraterni-
ties” this past year, the new W&L man
has rejected the notion that “elitism” is a
dirty word. With the University’s signifi-
cant financial investment, we may rest
assured that our elite will remain the center
of W&L’s concern well into the future.

Mr. Edward Bishop’s statement that
the private, members only (and it should
be noted, exclusive) fraternity system is
the best place to acquire the values “of
group dynamics, of politics, of leader-
ship” should become the battle cry of
W&L in the future. The past 30 years of
so-called “equalitarianism” in America
has scorned the value of the elite group
acting through its members for their own
ends for societal good; the result of such
a misguided policy on the national level
is self-evident.

The “fraternity renaissance” pro-
moted and paid for by the University
places W&L on the leading edge for a
restoration of our system by and for those
who have been born, bred, and educated
to lead and control it.

While other colleges and universities
waste valuable resources focusing on “di-
versity” and “academics,” W&L should
continue on the exclusive path emulating
the English “public school” model of
social networking and organization. It is
only through the continued focusing on
the importance of the fraternity
system and the concept of elitism
can W&L hope to remain uniquely above
the rabble of the mob.

John F. Zink, ’75
Louisville, Ky.

EDITOR’S NOTE: Edward Bishop’s ac-
tual comments do not refer to fraternity life as being
“exclustve.” His actual statements that the univer-

sity experience “involves enlarging one’s under-
standing of group dynamics, of politics, of leader-
ship. And I submit to you that there is no better place
to acquire those educational values than in a well-
run fraternity house.”

EDITOR:

A staggering $13 million has just been
spent to create an appropriate “vessel” for
the bodies and souls of fraternity boys.

What “fraternity ideals” have been
rescued? “A Change from Within” (W&L,
Winter 1991) provides no answer. A “ref-
uge” is not an ideal, and what are the
“principles” of the fraternity system ev-
erywhere? Elitism and exclusivism. You
do not want to get drunk on Saturday
with just anybody.

I chose not to be a fraternity member
when I was a student at W&L, but I did
have friends in some houses, and the
housemother at Lambda Chi Alpha be-
came a friend for life. ‘These former rela-
tionships do, however, not make me an
expert on fraternities, and I would like to —
know what unique services they have
ever performed for the community.

Nor do I advocate the abolition of
fraternities. But why must colleges and
universities sponsor, supervise, and sub-
sidize them? Here I also speak as a re-
cently retired faculty member of a uni-
versity that spends money not only on
mothering the unmotherables, buton PR
fees in an attempt to undo the damage
fraternities have done to that university’s
reputation. Leave fraternities to their
boorish ways and they will, in due time,
commit institutional suicide.

More than a generation ago, W&L
resisted being swallowed by athletics. It
became within its sphere a first-rate edu-
cational institution instead. Atatime when
we pay an increasingly heavy price for
the top-to-bottom inadequacies of our
educational system, the effort of making
W&L’s fraternities “consistent with our
history and tradition” constitutes an ex-
pensive irrelevance.

Hans A. Schmitt, ’40
Charlottesville, Va.

EDITOR:

I write both as a parent who is an
enthusiastic supporter of Washington and
Lee and a professional who works in the
field of alcohol/drug education and pre-

 

vention. The most disturbing aspect of
the last Washington and Lee Alumni
Magazine cover (“A Change from Within,”
Winter 1991) is the two young women
sitting with a cooler at their feet and a
bottle of alcohol on the lid. In my opinion,
this picture illustrates the failure of the
University and/or the fraternity “to pro-
vide reasonable guidelines that under-
stand and respect the law.” I would guess
the young women are not of legal drink-
ing age and there is no control of the
amount of alcohol they consume. I also
question whether most college students,
even those of legal age, are capable of
“drinking responsibly” in a party atmo-
sphere.

[know the administration and faculty
of Washington and Lee are interested in
the welfare of their students and have
implemented programs and policies to
address alcohol consumption on campus.
However, the cover is a poor choice to
illustrate “A Change from Within” and
conveys a very different message to all
who view the cover.

Candus D. Zambone
Salem, N.]J.

+

A Celebration of the Architecture

EDITOR:

At a New Year’s Eve party in San
Antonio, Texas, I met a W&L alumnus
by the name of Chip Flanagan. He was
surprised to learn that the new Lenfest
Center for the Performing Arts had been
designed in San Antonio. He sent me
several copies of your Summer 1991
alumni magazine (“A Celebration of the
Arts”).

It was a pleasure reading the article.
As one of the architects privileged to work
on the project, I thoughta little additional
background might be informative.

Design plans for the Lenfest Center
for the Performing Arts were prepared by
a team of architects consisting of Ford,
Powell & Carson, Architects of San Anto-
nio and Marcellus Wright, Cox and Smith
of Richmond, Va., ably assisted by a team
of engineers from Virginia and theater
consultants from ‘Texas. The firm of
GWSM from Pittsburgh was responsible
forthe excellent landscape design around
the project.

LETtt Ease

 

 

My boss and mentor, the late O’Neil
Ford, FAIA, was then a member of the
National Council for the Arts in Washing-
ton, D.C., and he paid a visit to the cam-
pus that is vividly remembered by those
who accompanied him on his tour.

We began work on the design of the
theater back in 1975, when Lee Kahn,
then head of the Drama Department,
came to visit us in San Antonio to begin
discussing the kinds of spaces and func-
tions a theater for W&L would house.
Despite the many permutations the
design for the theater subsequently un-
derwent, and the fruitful, happy, and pro-
ductive association with Dr. Albert Gor-
don, a part of me will always associate the
theater in my mind with Lee’s visit.

The original design for the theater
was much more compact. It was to fit into
the area now occupied by the “fan plaza”
in front of the Lenfest Center. It made
intensive use of the railroad station next
door for offices, classrooms, and storage
space. The former railroad line and bridge
were used in exactly the same way as in
the final design. While the theater did
fit the sight, it was a little like trying to fit
a size 10 foot into a size 7 shoe.

W&L initiated a land purchase pro-
gram that eventually netted the property
on the offer side of the railroad line. Now
there was sufficient room for the kind of
theater originally envisioned. A second
theater was designed along contempo-
rary lines for this expanded site.

At this point, our associates in Rich-
mond—whose dormitory project across
the road was starting construction—inter-
vened to encourage us to take another
look at blending the architecture more
with the prevailing Georgian character of
the campus as a whole. A third, and final,
design included a gatehouse to provide a

ee
a ae

The Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts: ‘a rewarding project on a campus that ts without parallel...’

 

‘signal’ for the entrance to the theater,
and the ‘fan plaza’ with its recall of Euro-
pean public spaces, and brick detailing
replete with historical allusions. The re-
sult is the theater that you see today,
a felicitous example of successful contex-
tualist architecture.

The design is deliberately nora slav-
ish example of Georgian architecture,
however. The ‘volkswagen windows’ fac-
ing the walkway, for example, were de-
liberately mannerist in appearance.
Geogian architecture tends to be rigor-
ously symmetrical about a central axis,
while the theater is anything but sym-
metrical in layout.

This letter would not be complete
without an acknowledgement of the
many people who contributed to the suc-
cess of this project. Presidents Huntley
and Wilson both had the keen sense of
vision and long-term commitment to
marshall the support of W&L’s impres-
sive Board of ‘Trustees. Frank Parsons
and Al Gordon shepherded the project
with a fine eye for detail and open-
handed enthusiasm and support. ‘Tom
Ziegler, Scott Beebe, and Jim Arthur
were also present ‘at the creation’ and
supportive throughout. And finally, the
contributors—garnered together by the
tireless Farris Hotchkiss—who joined with
Gerry Lenfest in their dramatic vote of
confidence in W&L’s future.

It was a privilege to have served
alongside such a fine collection of indi-
viduals for such a rewarding project on a
campus that is without parallel in these
United States.

Roy Lowey-Ball, AIA

Principal

Ford, Powell & Carson,
Architects and Planners

San Antonio, ‘Texas

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 3

“I come back to this campus often—
sometimes physically, other times in
my mind’s eye. In the curve of the bank
that slopes from Newcomb Hall to Lee
Chapel, I find something simple, essen-
tial. | see order and form, qualities of a
world in which our acts have meaning.”

So begins the narration for “On the
Shoulders of Giants,” a 12-minute video
prepared for the newly announced
Campaign for Washington and Lee.
The slide presentation is filled with
lasting images of the simple strength
and proud tradition of General Lee’s
college that alumni know and love.
These essential characteristics are part
of a simple message for the very com-
plex fundraising goal of $127 million.
With its time-capsule-ready mix of
words and images, the video conjures
up W&L’s past, defines the school for
the present, and suggests the potential
for the future. It is to be the spark for
the hoped-for fire of the most impor-
tant fundraising effort in the 243-year
history of the University.

That, quite simply, is what is at
hand for Washington and Lee: An
exhaustive, full-out, high-tech cam-
paign to raise a vast, but carefully cal-
culated, sum of money to keep Wash-
ington and Lee the simple, strong, and

beautiful place it always has been.

4 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The capital campaign, which will
take as its theme “On the Shoulders of
Giants,” received a twin-pronged
kickoff in Washington, D.C., in
February, coinciding with the winter
meeting of the Board of ‘Trustees. On
Feb. 12, more than 100 guests dropped

W&L ANNOUNCES
START OF HISTORIC
$127 MILLION CAMPAIGN

Atle erstale (om eya]

 

in on the Mount Vernon home of the
University’s first benefactor, George
Washington, for the campaign an-
nouncement. The following night, the
Washington chapter launched its
regional campaign with a reception for
600 at the city’s famed Mayflower

Hotel. George Washington himself,
looking remarkably fit for a man about
to turn 260, appeared on both bills. It
was clearly a time for both celebration
and commitment.

“Each of you will be given an
opportunity to match Washington’s
oift,” Washington-area chairman
Vernon W. Holleman Jr., ’58, told the
audience, referring, of course, to the
$50,000 original gift by the Father of
Our Country to the then-struggling
Liberty Hall Academy in 1796. “Your
Washington committee believes that
the 1.400 alumni locally will raise no
less than $3.5 million toward our goal
total.”

A $1 million goal was announced at
the second stop along the campaign
trail, the Rockbridge County kickoff
held March 6 at the Lenfest Center. “I
know we can count on the Rockbridge
chapter to set an example for the rest of
the country,” trustee and part-time
resident Gray Castle, 53, ’55L, told the
hometown crowd.

And that’s only the beginning. Six
more alumni chapters, from Richmond
and Roanoke to Kansas City and
Cincinnati, were scheduled to kick off
area campaigns in March and April to
initiate local fundraising. Nearly 50
chapters across the country will hold
similar events over the
next two years.

‘These events are
part of Phase II of the
three-phase plan for the
capital campaign. Phase I
has already netted some
handsome rewards, some
of which already have
been made manifest. The
lenfest Center for the
Performing Arts, a $10
million component of the
overall $127 million cam-
paign, was built through
the gifts of friends and
alumni, most notably
H.F. “Gerry” Lenfest,
‘53, who also is national
campaign chairman. The
$2.9 million Powell

Archives, the recently completed
addition to Lewis Hall that will house
the papers of Supreme Court Justice
Lewis F. Powell Jr., ’29, °31L, is
another campaign component, one that
has been boosted by the patronage of
the school’s leading living benefactors,
honorary national chairpersons Frances
and Sydney Lewis, ’40, ’43L. In the
years to come, an $8 million science
wing and a $7.5 million student center
will spring up on campus, as well, each
directly resulting from gifts to the
campaign, which also has earmarked $5
million for the fraternity renaissance
program.

This campaign for Washington and
Lee is more than just physical, how-
ever. It’s what you don’t see that makes
up the brunt of the $127 million.
Another $31 million will endow
scholarships for both undergraduate
and law school students. An additional
$19 million will endow professorships
to attract the best and brightest faculty.
A total of $77 million is budgeted for
the endowment altogether.

“Some people don’t realize the
absolute need for this campaign to be
successfully completed so that W&L
will have a financial wherewithal to
continue its educational excellence into
the next century,” said Lenfest.

“These aren’t frills. Every dollar is
needed. We’ve enjoyed a unique
education, an individual education with
a small student body, and we want that
to continue.”

President John D. Wilson’s stump
speech (this is a campaign, after all)
stresses that W&L exists and thrives
only because of who it is. Its continued
health depends on the support pro-
vided by its own family members.

“Washington and Lee is a pri-
vate—therefore, an independent—
institution of higher learning,” he says.
“Every building it constructs and
maintains, every book in its library,
every computer it operates, every dollar
of instructional budget comes from its
immediate family.

“Without this continuing infusion
of financial support from family and
friends, Washington and Lee would
soon become static, inert, frozen in
place. ‘This campaign is not about
saving or merely preserving Washing-
ton and Lee. It is focused entirely upon
enhancing the excellence of the
nation’s sixth-oldest university.”

Yes, $127 million does tend to
reach out and grab you. It is an awful
lot of money. But then again, it is not
some fanciful figure plucked from the
sky, and it also isn’t anything out of the

 

Opposite page: George Washington, a.k.a. William Sommerfield, regales Mayflower crowd with the story of his benefaction. Above:
Rector A. Stevens Miles Jr. announced the start of the capital campaign at Mount Vernon.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 5

ERAANE
TOs

‘
"
i
{
>) :
po ~ —
, / a a Nhe +

AAA A ol ARAMA A

oe

 

 

 

 

Pa i nla gine ">
Oe oe Seg

 

 

 

een tee

one es
« « 2 wage > ate .
nee penal
oegh'n

~~

 

 

Part of the kickoff weekend included Mary Tyler Cheek’s presentation at Christ Church in Alexandria.

ordinary when you look at the times.
Mount Holyoke recently completed a
five-year campaign that raised more
than $139 million. Davidson is in the
midst of a $150 million campaign, while
across the state William & Mary’s
Campaign for the Fourth Century is
well on its way to its $150 million goal.
On the national scene, the num-
bers are even more astounding.
America’s premier large private
universities are in campaigns that use
the dreaded “B” word (as in “bil-
lion”). Massachusetts Institute of
Technology is in 4 $700 million
campaign. Cornell has started a $1.25
billion campaign, Yale will soon begin a
$1.5 billion effort, and within the next

6 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

year or two, Harvard is expected to
embark on a capital campaign with a
goal of $2 billion.

The life of the private institution 1s
increasingly being tied to all those
donated dollar bills, and the situation
has become increasingly unstable in
the last decade. Inflation is putting
pressure on schools where before there
was none. The result is that many
schools (Bryn Mawr, Lehigh,
Dartmouth, Columbia, Oberlin, and
Smith, to name a few) are being forced
to cut programs or change admissions
policies just to make ends meet. It is,
for example, becoming increasingly
difficult to provide financial aid to
every student that needs it, thanks to

rising costs and declining federal
student aid. A National Institute of
Independent Colleges and Universities
survey noted that student financial aid
at private colleges increased by 87
percent between 1980 and 1987. ‘This
money has to come from somewhere,
and that somewhere at Washington and
Lee has been through the giving of
friends and alumni.

In announcing its “On the Shoul-
ders of Giants” campaign, Washington
and Lee, unlike some other schools
that find themselves forced to make
alterations or cutbacks, is seeking to
continue its strength in the same way it
always has. Through much careful
consideration, Washington and Lee’s
trustees have determined that that goal
is going to take at least $127 million to
achieve. Just what is the story behind
all the money?

In the late 1960s, when Washing-
ton and Lee took a long and careful
look at itself, the Board of ‘Trustees
arrived at two conclusions. ‘The first
was that the campus, though lovely in
appearance, was not adequate for
modern education. ‘The second was
that the University’s endowment, while
not deficient, was not of the size that a
school aspiring to the highest academic
standards should have.

As W&L’s constituency was not
able to tackle both of those rather mas-
sive objectives simultaneously, the
school’s last capital campaign, which
lasted from 1972-81, was designed to
take care of the school’s physical needs.
Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, former director of
development at W&L and now vice
president for university relations, said
that as a result of that campaign, “every
building on this campus, with the ex-
ception of the science buildings, has
been either newly constructed or thor-
oughly modernized since the early 1970s.”

It took the better part of the 1980s
to digest the physical improvements
made possible by that campaign, which
concluded in 1981 and raised $67.5
million. The decade also saw the
introduction of coeducation, a steady
rise in W&L’s academic reputation and

a remarkable rise in the quantity and
quality of applications in both the
undergraduate and law schools.

Washington and Lee officials
began planning for the school’s next
major step in institutional development
around March 1989, when the entire
University community—faculty, staff,
and students alike—completed a self-
study in part to fulfill requirements of
the Southern Association of Colleges
and Schools.

That study generated the model
for the new fundraising campaign. “We
divided needs into three areas: what we
had to do, what we should do, and what
would be nice to do,” recalls Lex O.
McMillan III, ’72, executive director of
development. “Then we costed it
out—how much it would cost to realize
all these dreams.”

In the 1989-90 school year, W&L
engaged a fundraising consultant to
conduct both an internal study to test
W&L’s administrative ability to
conduct a capital campaign and an
external feasibility study among the
University’s alumni constituency to
arrive at a realistic figure on which to
mount a campaign. McMillan thus
refers to $127 million as “a very
carefully devised number.”

‘The largest single objective is the
$77 million for endowment. That
includes $31 million to endow scholar-
ships, $19 million to endow faculty, $14
million to endow academic programs,
$9 million to endow the library, and $4
million to endow the computer center.
An additional $39 million is set for
physical plant improvements, including
the Lenfest Center, the proposed
student center, and the new science
wing. The remaining $11 million
represents the five-year total goal for
the Annual Fund, which is used to
fund current operations.

Hotchkiss noted that roughly 60
percent of W&L’s operating budget
ought to be coming from tuition, with
the remaining 30-40 percent covered
by each year’s Annual Fund plus the
€xpenditures from the endowment. He
said the University is in the “worrisome

 

 

 

** ss LO SUSTAIN WHAT
HAS GONE ON BEFORE...”

|
h 5 i)
‘ / te a
I here is no / ~~ Gar
{ ay Owes
-" i

 

question that Wash-
ington and Lee Uni-
versity owes its exis-
tence largely to peri-
odic fundraising ef-
forts over the last 200
years. But it has not

been easy. Indeed, Liberty Hall
only within the last Washington’s gift. Without
half century have fund- Ne ee Saas
raising efforts met with __ in James River Canal stock to Liberty
much resounding success. ij:ntifcation, and was the fist sea

A look at the history has __ stepinthesecond major transformation
of this institution—from provincial

one wondering how the in- siadiltaie Wo on GEE cas acho
stitution even survived tive smaller universities,” as Ollinger

Crenshaw writes in General Lee’s Col-
those early years. lege. It also featured the school’s first

fundraiser.

 

 

 

 

As Crenshaw reports, Congressman Andrew Moore of Rockbridge County, a
trustee, conveyed to Washington the virtues of the academy and its perseverance
through the Revolution and other hard times. Washington, who was considering at
least seven possible benefactors for the 100 shares of stock, was swayed to give it to
Liberty Hall. Moore was part of a board of trustees that had been petitioning any
number of sources for funding for nearly 20 years prior to the Washington gift,
including efforts that provided for the Liberty Hall Academy buildings in 1790.
That concern for the immediate needs of the academy eventually would turn into
a larger concern for the future financial stability of the college.

Rebuilding in the early 1800s and Jockey John. With the fire
that destroyed Liberty Hall in 1803 came the next specific fundraising effort in the
school’s history. ‘The purchase of land and the construction of several new buildings
would have to be financed, and the Rev. George Addison Baxter, named rector in
1799, set out to raise money.

Although Baxter’s methods were different (he traveled on horseback) and his
selflessness almost incomprehensible by today’s standards (he forfeited his salary
while trying to raise money), his explanation of the trials of the fundraiser, as related
by Crenshaw, seems unaltered by the passage of time. Baxter wrote his wife, saying,
“I shew my papers; talk about the Academy and ask for money. Sometimes they
give liberally, sometimes penuriously; sometimes not at all.”

 

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rebuilding again and General Lee. While the college had experi-
enced hard times during its first century, nothing would compare to the reconstruction
that would be necessary following the war. And nothing could compare to the effect
Robert E. Lee would have on fundraising at the college from that moment forward.

The financial disaster that was Washington College when Lee took office is
almost unbelievable. The college held just $90,000 in solvent investments, and the
cash on hand was a paltry $1,200.

A large-scale fund drive was begun in earnest and included trips through the
North and even overseas to England. Crenshaw writes that the fundraisers “met
many disappointments and elicited sharp rebukes for asking Northerners to support
the institution headed by the arch-rebel and traitor.” Still, Lee’s respected name
began to pay dividends, particularly from Northern philanthropists Henry Ward
Beecher, Samuel J. Tilden, and George Peabody, who gave the school $250,000. Even
after Lee’s death, major benefactions came from the Cyrus McCormick family
($350,000), and Mr. and Mrs. Warren Newcomb, whose benefaction made possible
the construction of Newcomb Hall.

The William Wilson Fund and Dr. Denny.

The quarter-century presidency of Custis Lee brought little
fundraising success, and the University’s finances were again
in disarray. A board report even stated that “the condition of
our interest-bearing endowment...is now inadequate to sup-
port the charges upon it.” So when William Lyne Wilson
began his presidency in 1897, money was a large issue.
Wilson set the wheels in motion not only for educa-
tional reform at W&L, but more importantly for the possibil-
ity of successful fundraising. His national respect for his
service in a number of presidential administrations helped win
Dr. Denny the favors of many Northern philanthropists. One of Wilson’s major
development aims was to endow achair in economics at the University,
and while the effort was barely begun before his death, by 1902 the $100,000 had been
raised to endow the William L. Wilson Department of Economics and Political
Science.

While Wilson’s foresightedness had begun the fundraising, it was the economy
and the energy of his 30-year-old successor, Dr. George Denny, that made the next 10
years profitable for W&L. Denny’s frugal budget-balancing and his effective and
continual solicitation of many of the Wilson Fund contacts increased the University’s
endowment by a quarter of a million dollars in his first six years of office.

But like many before him, Denny saw much more to be done and much more
money needed. He called for a $1 million fund drive and secretly admitted to the need
foreven more funding. Yet, when Denny left in 1911, he, like Wilson before him, left
the University’s finances strengthened and the University’s development plans
pointed in the right direction.

   

The Annual Fund. \twas in the midst of the Depression, however, that the
University embarked on one of its most successful and enduring fundraising efforts.
Through the efforts of the Alumni Association, which had only then come under the
control of the University, W&L established an annual giving program. The program
was heartily endorsed by President Francis Pendleton Gaines in his report of 1933:
“Most noteworthy of all general factors in the University life...is the endeavor to enlist
new interest and new support on the part of our alumni...[W]e have every conviction
that we are launching a movement of great possibility.”

Perhaps more prophetic words were never spoken. In its early years, the Annual
Fund, as it has come to be known, raised an average of $3,000. It grew through the
1950s and 1960s to tens of thousands and then hundreds of thousands of dollars
annually. Today, the annual fund tally is more than $2 million, a sum that provides,
in effect, a $1,000 hidden scholarship for every student.

 

 

 

 

 

8§ W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

zone” of having roughly 70 percent of
its budget covered by tuition and less
than 10 percent covered by gifts from
the Annual Fund, which currently
provides for only eight percent of the
operating expenses. The balance
comes from the endowment. Unless
the endowment is dramatically in-
creased, the proportion covered by
tuition could become unacceptable.

Nearly 30 percent of students re-
ceive some sort of financial aid, be it
outright gifts or work-study funds.

“Unlike most schools, we don’t use
tuition revenues to fund student aid,”
Hotchkiss said. “Scholarship aid comes
only from gift funds restricted for that
purpose. Everything else of a physical
nature—from the buildings to the physi-
cal plant—is funded entirely by gifts.”

By providing endowment for pro-
fessorships, academic innovations, scho-
larship funds, and physical projects, the
Campaign for Washington and Lee will
“ensure that we can compete for the
students we want,” said A. Stevens
Miles, 51, rector of the Board of ‘Trus-
tees. “These are not extravagant pro-
grams, but are needed if we are to
maintain the historic quality of our
institution.”

Since the five-year campaign
began with the solicitation of advance
gifts in July 1990, W&L has received
$55.5 million, or nearly 44 percent of its
goal. “Given the environment in which
it was raised, $55.5 million is a very
credible number, in terms of the overall
goal,” according to David Ross, a fund-
raising consultant in Durham, N.C. He
noted that most campaigns go public
having raised between 33 and 40 per-
cent of the campaign goal.

That figure includes $17 million
from current and emeritus trustees and
$5 million from Gerry Lenfest. “This
campaign will make the difference
between W&L continuing or not to
offer the kind of education we’ve all
enjoyed,” Lenfest told the Washington
gathering. “We’re going to make it,” he
added. “The campaign is going to be
successful, and it’s going to propel W&L
into the next century.”

If the campaign is indeed going to
make it, it will have to do so with the
full support of the large donor and the
small donor. The support of younger
alumni—most of whom are not ina
position to make a “major gift” just
vet—is vital to the continued success of
the Annual Fund, a key component to
the overall campaign plan. ‘The Annual
Fund contributes more than $2 million
yearly to W&L’s current operating
budget, which is roughly equivalent to
the income generated from a $40
million endowment in a calendar year.

For as much planning as goes into
any campaign of this size, there is always
the unexpected. At the trustees’ meeting
in February, consultant David Ross told
those gathered, “You’ll come up with
some surprises in these area campaigns.”

But then, W&L has historically
been full of surprises. Wilson noted
that many of W&L’s largest benefac-
tors included “men and women who
did not attend Washington and Lee,
who never by their own participation
incurred any obligation to the Univer-
sity.” People like Letitia Pate Evans,
John Lee Pratt, Jessie Ball duPont,
Ruth Parmly, Judge John Barton Payne,
Cyrus McCormick, William Reid. The
list goes on.

“All of them, and hundreds, even
thousands of others,” Wilson said,
“sensed something very special about
Washington and Lee, something of
genuine value for the whole society.”

‘This campaign, then, this awesome
$127 million, seems to be about that
something special that is Washington
and Lee University. It is there, perhaps
hidden to the casual observer, but
deeply engrained in anyone who has
been touched by this institution. It is
about, as the video eloquently relates,
“something simple, essential...
qualities of a world in which our acts
have meaning.”

en

Dick Anderson is editor of On the Shoulders of
Giants, the campaign newsletter.

 

 

 

 

Dr. Gaines and capital campaigns. The
University’s endowment doubled during Gaines’ first decade
as president, jumping over the $3 million mark in that time
and reaching $6 million by 1940. But it was after World War
II that the University began the first structured, large-scale
fundraising efforts.

The first of these was started in the years immediately
after the war, and was set to coincide with the 200th anni-
versary of the school in 1949, The University set up an

Office of the Bicentennial that orchestrated the campaign,
setting a goal of $3 million. Despite raising a little more than
$1.7 million, the effort was praised roundly, and the fundraising
structure established by that office perhaps set in motion the
establishment of an Office of Development in September 1953.
By 1958, the development office had established new and lasting contacts and
increased the University’s ability to raise funds through an organized structure.

W&L began a fundraising program that was called its “largest capital fund

drive in history” in 1958. The nine-year plan called for a two-phase effort to raise
$2 million at first and then nearly $5 million in its remaining years. The major aims
were to rebuild the science and journalism facilities. The University sought gifts
through a publication titled “The Vision of Greatness.” and that campaign pro-
duced more than $3 million.

President Huntley and the campaign of the 1970s. it was the
decade of the ’70s that brought to W&L its most important moments in its fundraising
history. The decade initiated an immense campaign for $56 million, announced on
Washington’s Birthday in 1972 by President Robert E.R. Huntley. Huntley told
students, faculty, and staff gathered that day that the fund drive was the result of “the
broadest and most far-reaching study of the University’s future yet undertaken.”

At its completion in 1982, the campaign netted some $67 million, and it was, at
the time, the largest successful effort ever by a school of Washington and Lee’s size.

That doggedness and the overwhelming generosity of alumni and other benefac-
tors produced a campaign whose success went beyond all expectations. This success
came despite the troubled recessionary years of the middle 1970s and it resulted in a
doubling of the endowment to nearly $50 million.

In announcing the campaign’s final success in 1982, Huntley said, “We who serve
here on the campus can properly regard the achievement as a mandate for continued
pursuit of the ideals of liberal education at Washington and Lee. We cannot regard our
University as secure, but we can regard it as strong enough to approach the future
boldly and unafraid.”

  
    

Dr. Gaines

 

On the Shoulders of Giants. Muchas it was in ON THE
1972, the University faces a financial crossroads once again SHOL ILDERS
with the announcement of the capital campaign for $127 OF GI ANTS

 

million. As far as history goes, W&L has never before
undertaken a fund drive of such immense proportion, and
yet it is largely based on motives similar to those of men like
Andrew Moore in the 1790s, Robert E. Lee in the 1870s,
William Wilson in the 1890s, Francis Pendleton Gaines in
the 1950s, and Robert E.R. Huntley in the 1970s, motives
that treasure the past and look with hope toward the future.

Gaines’ words in a capital campaign brochure in 1958
were true then, and they seem just as appropriate today: “We
invite now the friends to sustain what has gone on before and
to translate their own aspirations for tomorrow into the forms
that best make tomorrow secure, the training of the gifted.”

— Mike Stachura

 

 

THE CAMPAIGN FOR
Washington and Lee

 

 

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

 

 

A Funny hing
rappened .. .

on the Way to the Nomination

by evan atkins

 

 

 

‘The Mock Convention is one of those traditions that makes the W&L experi-
ence, well, the W&L experience. It is a scrapbook event, filled with memories that last
long after graduation. It is, as well, an academic exercise, the strength of which is
clearly demonstrated by W&L’s remarkable success at picking the correct presiden-
tial candidate of the party out of power. And, of course, it is a monumental social event,
with parties and celebrations that at least rival the attendant carousing at the so-
called “real” conventions.

Allin all, the Mock Convention is about W&L being W&L, and in 1992, the Mock
Convention was all it has ever been and more.

With its reputation for accuracy thrust into the spotlight by
national media attention (see ‘The Mock Con

Media Blitz, p.16), W&L responded with a I
mock convention that just might beat ] ————
ren pil

the real Democratic National Conven-

ae tion in New York for intrigue, show- 7 h1 nto V1

manship, and organization.
Rumors and rumina- | % LOR PRESIDENT

tions, parties and

   

   
    
   
  
    

politicos, march- i a

he Sing bands and
a links

Noy.
FOR Ppr Dae AP?)

         

B he
52
oe

   
  
     
   
   
    

 
 
   
     

 

 

Opposite page: Clinton supporters were ecstatic after
his first-ballot selection; This page, top: Co-chairman
John Donaldson and secretary Elise Bryant, contrary
10 this photo, did not pick Clinton’s name out of a hat;
Bottom: Trent Merchant, North Carolina’s mock state
chairman, makes a statement of great political
(although not sartorial) importance during a floor
debate. (Bottom photo by C. Taylor Crothers, ’93).

 

talking heads, balloons, banners, beauty queens (both ersatz and legit), two Georges
(neither of them Bush), three tractor trailer trucks (all of them the real deal),
sunshine, rain, fog, and mud, this Mock Convention was filled with stories to last a

lifetime....

And the winner 1S ...

With all the merry-making, the
planning, the questioning, the flag-
waving, and the cheering, the question
came down finally on that Saturday
afternoon in early March. Just who
would these college students pick to be
the Democratic Party’s nominee for
president in 1992?

‘The 1992 Mock Convention drew
thousands of spectators and more
reporters than any event in W&L’s
history. On the eve of “Super Tues-
day,” would W&L students be able to
predict what political analysts had been
unable to do? Would they pick one
winner from the slate of five Democratic
contenders, or would they choose
another candidate from among the field
of Democratic politicians?

With 805 votes needed for a
majority decision among the Mock
Convention’s 1,608 delegates, Arkansas
Gov. Bill Clinton eked out a first ballot
win with 809 votes (Mass. Sen. Paul

‘Tsongas came in second with 563 votes).

Balloons fell from the rafters and
patriotic music blared from the loud
speakers. ‘Ihe Warner Center erupted
into a sea of red, white, and blue confetti
as W&L’s 20th Mock Convention came
to a close.

Few expected the first-ballot win
for Clinton. But student delegates, who
had been in constant contact with party
leaders, delegates, and politicians in
each state throughout the year, voted
strictly according to their research and
advice from party leaders in each state.

New York Gov. Mario Cuomo
headed the list of notable Democratic
leaders who gave rousing speeches at
the W&L convention. Other politicians
who addressed the students were
Michael Dukakis, 1988 Democratic
presidential candidate and former

Governor of Massachusetts; Thomas
“Tip” O’Neill, former Speaker of the
U.S. House of Representatives; and Al
From, president and executive director
of the Democratic Leadership Council.

W&L students were so impressed
with Cuomo that they picked him as the
vice-presidential candidate—a position
Cuomo categorically said he would not
accept. But he was already on the plane
back to New York when the vote was
taken. (The convention’s pick for vice
president is seldom correct.)

Since 1908, the W&L Mock
Conventions have correctly chosen the
presidential candidate for the party out
of power 14 out of 19 times. Since 1948,
they have only been wrong once (in
1972, they picked Edward M. Kennedy
instead of George McGovern). So it is
no surprise that so much national
attention was focused on the convention
this year. As the Washington Post head-
lined a few days prior to the convention,
“It may be a mock convention, but the
results are very real.”

‘The event has been acclaimed in
other national publications as being the
most accurate predictor of presidential
politics.

Clinton, who attended W&L’s 1988
Mock Convention, was unable to give
the traditional telephone acceptance
address to the convention because he
was in the middle of a debate, cam-
paigning in Florida. He sent word
through his campaign manager, David
Wilhelm, who spoke through a phone
hookup to the Warner Center.

“He was very, very, very happy
with the outcome,” said Wilhelm. “We
think it’s an accurate window of what’s
going to happen in the next few days.”
Three days later, Super Tuesday was a
sweep for Clinton.

W&L ALUMNIN MAGAZINE II

Tf it rains, PU dhe...

“This is Lexington’s Mardi Gras,”
said Fred Smith Jr. of the Lexington
Police Department. He was, of course,
referring to the Mock Convention parade,
a certifiable, highly-regimented, bla-
tantly public display of college lunacy.
‘This year’s parade featured everything
from casinos and Woodstock to a larger-
than-life and a living Mount Rushmore,
but it also might be remembered for
what it didn’t feature: Bad weather and
its grand marshall.

Planning a major event in Lexington
during the first week of March can be
risky business. Just ask Gabrey Croft, ’92,
chairwoman of the Mock Convention
Parade who was quoted saying, “If it
rains, I'll die.” It could have just as
easily been cold and snowy. Well,
Croft is still very much with
us. The bad weather
that was pre-
dicted

 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
       

held off
of the greatest
ever to pass through the
downtown Lexington.
‘The weather forecast called for 90
percent chance of rain and the possibil-
ity of severe thunderstorms. Friday
morning, parade time, was perfect—mild
temperatures in the low 70s and no rain.

for one
parades
streets of

12 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

‘Though the weather was fair in
Lexington, 50 miles south at the Roa-
noke Regional Airport, the fog had set
in. Circling overhead was Gov. Michael
Dukakis, the parade’s grand marshal,
who could not land in time to make the
10:30 a.m. parade.

Standing in as grand marshals for
Dukakis were not one, but two
George Washingtons.
Leading off, in a horse-drawn
carriage, was George Wash-
ington himself (portrayed by
William Sommerfield of the
Royal Pickwickians, a theater
group from Philadelphia). Following
him, on the Commonwealth of Vir-
ginia float, was “Old George,” a new
fiberglass replica of W&L’s beloved
statue of George Washington that sits
atop Washington Hall.

The two-hour parade featured
bands, clowns, and floats from every
state and U.S. territory. Some floats were
constructed the night before, and others
diligently planned for months—but all
cleverly depicting some state theme—
which was not always easily identifiable!

‘The Massachusetts float featured a
full-scale construction of the “Cheers”
bar, complete with “Norm.” ‘The Iowa
float depicted a plane crash in a corn-
field with a placard reading, “Buddy
Holly and Tom Harkin: Down in
Flames in Iowa.” Elvis was the star of

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
     
 
   
 

float, while the New York entry fea-
tured a pseudo-Jimi Hendrix playing an
electric pied piper to so many pseudo-
flower children. ‘The first-place winner,
New Jersey, depicted a board full of
“Monopoly” sites, ‘T'rump’s ‘Taj Mahal
and other featured enter-
tainment offerings at
each turnpike exit—
and a stand-in Miss
New Jersey.
An assort-
ment of ve-

 
   

hicles were

 

 

*_ *

 

-”

Top: The Bluegrass

cee oe .
kee 4 Bo e

ee eree,

&é

State’s float featured the ‘Wildgrass’ band’s music; Bottom: ‘Old George’ led the parade, but

the real Father of Our Country might have preferred some home-grown transportation.

‘Tennessee, and Wrigley Field, com-
plete with “mock” ivy, represented
Illinois. A huge salmon was constructed
for the state of Washington and white-
water rafters rode the West Virginia

solicited to pull these decorated, mobile
parties. For many, the usual pick-up
trucks or jeeps would do. But for those
of a grand scale, the heavy artillery was
brought in—yes, those huge, 18-wheel

semi tractor-trailers that have a hard time
manipulating the narrow streets of Lex-
ington.

Since public schools in the area
were enjoying a four-day weekend, hun-
dreds of children, along with most of the
townspeople, lined the streets to watch,
and catch favors being tossed by stu-
dents—lots of candy, as well as yellow
roses from ‘Texas, potatoes from Idaho,
boxes of cereal from Michigan, Hershey
kisses from Pennsylvania, and slices of
American cheese (individually wrapped)
from Wisconsin.

More fog ...

On Saturday morning, the Roanoke
airport was again fogged in delaying Gov.
Mario Cuomo’s landing. He arrived two
hours late, postponing the start of the
convention’s third session where he gave
the keynote address — from his own, cus-
tom-made podium (Cuomo aides had the
podium shipped to W&L and it was used
by all the speakers at the convention).

‘The rains did come, intermittently,
during the weekend, but the thunder-
storms held off until late Saturday after-
noon, after everyone had headed out to
Zollman’s Pavilion for the celebration
party. ‘I’o be sure, the rain didn’t dampen
the spirits there!

The things you
forgot to do...

With all the preparations for such a
large undertaking, something always
gets overlooked. All the major things
were taken care of—speakers, tele-
phones, broadcast equipment, public
address systems, music, chairs for 1,608
delegates, etc. But somebody forgot to
hire custodians, and 3,500 people can
make a big mess. Between the three ses-
sions, members of the committee found
themselves mopping floors, emptying
trash cans, and yes, replenishing the
supplies in the restrooms.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

Are there any messages

for me?

 

14 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Rrrriiinnnng. . . “Hello, you have
reached the Mock Convention office.
Please leave a message and we'll get back
to you.” Beeeeeep. “Yes, this is Gov.
Mario Cuomo. .. ”

Nobody was manning the Mock Con-
vention office when Gov. Cuomo him-
self called to accept the invitation to be
the keynote speaker for the W&L Mock
Convention. So he just left a message.

Cuomo personally called back a few
times after that, too, speaking frequently
to Mock Convention chairmen asking
for more information about Washington
and Lee, and seeking advice on what the
focus of his address should be.

They re going to

print what?

A rumor that swept through the
Mock Convention floor at Friday night’s
session had delegates and state chairmen
in a panic. The rumor—that a promi-
nent newspaper was about to break a

“ONvenrion <

—

story about one of the leading Demo-
cratic candidates that would surely end

 

his campaign—had delegates, as well
as attending reporters, on telephones all
across the country.

As the Roanoke Times and World-
News reported, “For a few frantic hours,
the rumor at W&L’s Mock Convention
leapfrogged from coast to coast like the
Michaelango computer virus.” After
many phone calls to Democratic leaders
across the country and to national media
contacts, the delegates and reporters
were satisfied that the rumor was un-
founded (or as it turned out, greatly
exaggerated). But for a few anxious hours,
the delegates were in total confusion as
to where those votes would go.

Operator, please
CONNELL ME . « .

New York resident Joan Loykovich,
a former campaign worker for Gov. Cuomo,
likes to keep up with his political activi-
ties. When she heard he was attending a
mock convention at Washington and Lee,
she called the directory assistance opera-
tor in New York to get W&L’s telephone

 

 

Opposite page: Some delegates promoted not only a candidate and his phone
number, but his fashion sense, as well; Above: This year’s convention, with its
hie flags, big cheers, and big video screen, was just the right size for one state
delegation (Photo by C. Taylor Crothers); Right: Gov. Cuomo professed to be a
non-candidate, but he ended up with the vice-presidential nomination anyway.

number. “What is going on at Washington
and Lee?” asked the operator. “I’ve got-
ten so many requests for their phone
number that I’ve memorized it!”

Live from
Lexington . «

‘The Mock Convention took its simu-
lation efforts a few steps further this year,
adding a huge video screen and live
television coverage to its format. For the
first time in W&L Mock Convention
history, Washington and Lee’s Cable
Channel Nine provided live, gavel-to-
gavel coverage of the convention. ‘The
installation of a 9-foot-by-12-foot video
projection screen greatly enhanced the
visibility of the speakers. Now, the
question is would that be Mock Vision or
Mock ConVision?

‘The technical preparations and
staging for Mock Convention were nothing
short of incredible. According to W&L
Professor of Journalism Robert J. de Maria,
who oversaw the work, it was a joint
effort involving students, alumni, and
members of the W&L staff and faculty.

Alumni who added their technical
expertise, and prior Mock Convention
experience to the production enterprise,
were Bill Parks, ’82, and Jimmy Hodge,

88, of Cinema
Sound, and
Bruce Young,
"82, a free-
lancer who
frequently
works with
them.

The first
televised Mock
Convention has naturally led to the first
Mock Convention Video. ‘The cost of
the 30-minute video is $13.95, and it can
be ordered through the W&L Bookstore
by calling (703) 463-8634.

On top of all the television, there
was the music, as integral a part of any
convention as any platform debate or
nominating speaker. Live pre-conven-
tion music was provided by local bands,
Down Boy Down and Wildgrass, but
recorded music was heard throughout.
Lots of John Phillip Sousa music created
a patriotic atmosphere. Songs had to be
chosen, pre-recorded, and then presented
on-cue for the speakers’ grand entrances.
And the W&L playlist was night on. “Tip”
O’Neill made his way to the podium to
the theme from “Cheers”; Dukakis was
led to the stage by his 1988 campaign
theme song, “Coming to America”; and
Cuomo arrived to the rousing strains of
Ol’ Blue Eyes and—what else-—“New
York, New York.”

 

Al the hard work
paid off ...

The success of this year’s Mock

Convention was the culmination of over
a year’s worth of hard work by a number
of students, especially tri-chairmen
Jamie Tucker, John Donaldson, and
David Bohigian.

Donaldson, who was more or less
the CEO of the convention, summed it
all up by saying, “This was everything |
hoped it would be and more. Everyone
did their part to make this work, and
that also includes the tremendous
support from alumni and parents.

“Usually in an exercise like this,
you look back on it like a Monday
morning quarterback, wishing you could
have changed this or done that a
different way. That was not the case

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

 

 

meee

MOC K
Media Blitz

 

o

If you didn’t make it to Lexington for W&L’s 1992 Mock Democratic Conven-
tion, you may have caught it as the last two-and-a-half-minute segment on the “CBS
Evening News” on Sat., March 7, the day the convention ended. Or you may have
read about it in Sunday’s New York Times. No? Well how about any major Virginia

newspaper or television station? You don’t live in Virginia? Did you catch it on C-

SPAN? CNN? CNBC? Or hear it on National Public Radio? We know it went across

the AP wire.

WELL, IF YOU WERE AWAY
for the weekend, you could have seen it
on public television’s “McNeil-Lehrer
NewsHour” on ‘Tues., March 10. After
spending the weekend at Mock Conven-
tion, NewsHour correspondent Roger
Mudd, ’50, did a 12-minute feature re-
port that covered all aspects of the Mock
Convention weekend, including the
parade, interviews with students from

 

 

{7

Sane
those who want to be from Texas.”

IOWA: “... home of the oscillating fan.”
KENTUCKY:
LOUISIANA: “

MICHIGAN: “
future Floridians.”

 

 

. where there are two kinds of people: ‘Texans, and

. a bastion of political corruption, and the home

. home of Motown and the largest population of

the ‘Texas delegation, and convention
highlights from the Warner Center.
Certainly, the VCRs in Lexington
were humming. Never, not even for the
coeducation announcement, has W&L
attracted such national media attention.
More than 35 local, state, and national
media organizations were in attendance.
What brought reporters from the
country’s major newspapers and networks

  

to cover this college event?
Besides the fact that
Lexington is a nice place
to spend the weekend,
there were other condi-
tions that made W&L ripe
for a media blitz.

‘The Mock Conven-
tion’s uncanny record for
accuracy in predicting a
presidential candidate was
made even more challeng-
ing this year by moving
the convention to early
March, prior to the Super
‘Tuesday primaries. With
the Democratic party still
searching for a bona fide
front-runner, any stamp of approval is
cause for the media to stand up and take
notice. Gov. Cuomo’s appearance was
definitely a draw. Reporters wanted to
be here in case he made a political
announcement.

But much of the credit for getting
the media’s attention goes to Monica
Young and Kimberly Bishop, both senior
journalism majors, who were media co-
chairman for the Mock Convention.
Their tireless efforts in sending out
press releases and promoting the event
since September paid off.

And W&L did itself proud with its
hospitality and overall excellence. Ann
Klenk, Washington producer for CNBC,
for one was impressed. “Everyone said
‘Hi’ and smiled,” she told Monica. “We’ve
never received such good treatment.”

 

 

 

MISSOURI:

innocent women and children.”

PUERTO RICO: “...
taxes, and we don’t speak English.”
. home of Love Connection host Chuck Woolery.”

SOUTH CAROLINA: “

Strom Thurmond.”

of the drunken, orgiastic celebration, Mardi Gras.”

MAINE: “...

. home of Jesse James, famous outlaw and killer of

where we have no major sports teams, pay no

home to L.L. Bean, who refused to donate any funds to
this convention, and one of the 49 states greater than Texas.”

™

. home of the elderly and extremely fertile

 

 

 

X

 

16 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

 

 

 

 

@&e

vision has brought a

nd regional theater to the Rock-
.. bridge countryside, encompassing acts
as varied as the Leningrad Clown

Mimes (top) and drama as riveting
pall Country (bottom, photo
y Dan Carraco).

te “es

F

i ; sae

 

 

 

 

Soon it will be summer
in Lexington, a time when a
casual observer might notice
a slightly more than subtle
change come over the town.

It’s not just the lack of W&L
students or the general drowsiness that
seems to Overcome most small southern
towns every summer. No, there’s
definitely something happening here.

You may spot a brightly dressed
Kenyan in dreadlocks riding his bike
down Main Street. Or a troupe of

Russian clowns
whose antics are
beginning to hold up

( downtown traffic. Or

make your way to
the corner of Lee
and Nelson to The
Nn Palms restaurant and
you Il see small
knots of theatrical-
looking folk linger-

 
  
 
 
  
 
 

ing over lunch—a very late lunch. You
get the impression that no one holds a
day job in this bunch. And, if you leave
‘The Palms around dusk you may catch
what sound like the first strains of a
bluegrass band—if the wind is right.

If you’ve been back to Lexington
in the summertime within the last eight

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

 

The early theater at the ruins (above) was as much ruins as it was theater (photo courtesy of Lime Kiln Arts). Baker (p. 19, bottom) who also finds himself on stage on
occasion, has brought work “reflective of the indigenous stories and music” of the region to Lime Kiln, like the play Ear Rings (below, photo by Dan Carraco) and the song
“Seven-Day Freak Out” from Stonewall Country (p. 19, top, photo by Nancy Spencer).

years, you'll know exactly what these Night's Dream that took place in the ruins — and Lime Company to be used for “a

small signs add up to—another season of an old lime kiln owned by Virginia unique summer theater and home for

at Lime Kiln. Military Institute professor Brewster the arts,” Theater at Lime Kiln was born.
Ford. The kilns were built in 1896 to

e supply lime to the Columbia Paper Mill
“ a oe

in Buena Vista (now Georgia 2
Bonded Fi- bers) by A.T.

  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
  

Now entering its eighth season, Barclay, a
Theater at Lime Kiln is fast becoming veteran
one of the hottest regional theaters in later
the country. It is certainly one of the
most intriguing. Largely the brainchild
of two W&L alumni, Don Baker, 68, and
‘Tommy Spencer, ’69, Lime Kiln has,
more than anything else, asense of
place. Not only ina physical sense,
but in a sense of mission, as well.
Primarily through Baker’s artistic vision,
Lime Kiln has become a place where
audiences can witness the music and
drama of Virginia and the southern Ap-
palachians unfold in a location of unsurpas-

Civil War ‘To get almost any worthwhile pro-
who ject off the ground there always seems
be- to be someone, at the beginning, who
thinks with a sense of adventure. In the
case of Lime Kiln, the thought was, “Hey,
Old Man Ford’s got an old lime kiln in
his backyard. What if we put on a
show there ....” The founders
of Lime Kiln had more than the
vision—they had the gumption to
follow through on their dream, and
maybe more significantly, to convince
others of its worth. Spencer served as
the first chairman of the board, while

came a Baker has continued as the artistic direc-

  
  
   

sed natural beauty. Lime Kiln also has trustee. The ruins, tor of Lime Kiln Arts.

developed one of the most eclectic an- which form a large amphi- On a recent afternoon in Lime Kiln

nual line-ups this side of New York City. theater, struck everyone involved Arts’ new offices on Randolph Street,
‘Twenty-five summers ago as W&L __as the perfect spot for an outdoor the- Baker leans back in his infamous Nauga-

students, Baker and Spencer were in- ater. In 1982, when Ford donated the hyde chair. It is the same one, he points

volved in a production of A Midsummer _ site of the former Rockbridge Stone out, that was mentioned in an alumni

18 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

magazine story on the then-nascent
theater eight years ago. The office is
larger now, but it still has the prop-
Sean, cluttered look of a theater com-
pany in the off season.

rom what was, in the words of
Doug Harwood, ’74, “just a great big
overgrown hole in the ground,” a 12-
acre site eventually encompassing three
performance spaces was carved, hacked,
and swing-bladed out of the brush.
Harwood, who has been with Lime
Kiln since 1983 as a marketing consult-
ant and percussionist, remembers that
the initial amount of work needed to
make the space into a working theater
was staggering. “And all of it was done
by volunteers,” he points out. ‘Today,
the site consists of the large kiln stage
dominated by weathered oaks, cedars
and the ruins of the kilns themselves; a
smaller, natural amphitheater known as
“the Bowl,” which 1s located above the
ruins and is used for some concerts; and
a big top tent for inclement weather.

Baker concedes that despite his love
for the location, outdoor theater—in the
summer, in Virginita—presents him with
some interesting problems. A technical
director and two lighting boards were
zapped by lightning one year.
(lhe boards were fried, the di-
rector is fine now.) ‘Torren-
tial rains one summer
caused the stage in the
Bowl to float raft-like
on several feet of water.
However, each natural ca-
lamity has helped make Lime
Kiln better.

“From the very beginning, a con-
tinual upgrading of the facilities has
taken place to the point now where they
are very comfortable in all types of con-
ditions,” Baker says. “Constantly dealing
with the weather is tiring, so we have
made things as weather-proof as possible.
We can now perform rain or shine.”

Lime Kiln’s first season in 1984
consisted of a two-week production of
Shakespeare’s Cymbeline—set in modem-
day Rockbridge County. There were
maybe 1,200 people who came out to
see the play. Today, Lime Kiln has a

14-week summer season, and in 1991,
attendance figures reached a record-high
of 22,000. ‘Touring of the theater’s ori-
ginal plays began in 1987, and with the
institution of a year-round artistic en-
semble in 1989, an additional 20,000
people have been added to the audience
for Lime Kiln productions.

Explaining part of Lime Kiln’s ap-
peal, W&L theater professor Albert C.
Gordon said, “A unique part of its
appeal, of course, is the setting.
But part of Lime Kiln’s stated
purpose is to expose people
to indigenous themes
done in theater. And
there is no ques-
tion that Lime
Kiln has
the ability
to draw
people out re-
peatedly to see
some really
great out-
door

drama.” By 1985,

the seasonal line-up had
coalesced into essentially what
audiences see today—two or three origi-
nal productions centered around the folk-
lore of the Southern mountain country,
an adaptation of a Shakespeare play,
international performing artists, and a
varied musical line-up. All of the actors
and most of the technicians are profes-

   
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
   
  
    
 

sionals. Six touring theater companies,
such as Kentucky’s Roadside, South
Carolina’s Chopstick, and New Orleans’
Junebug, have come to Lime Kiln over
the years.

‘The musical aspect of the program,
in particular, has had success in diver-
sifying the audience, bringing in people
who don’t normally go to theater. In
over 105 concerts over the last eight
years, Lime Kiln has brought musi-
cians of renown from all aspects
of the music business—folk,
pop, bluegrass, jazz, coun-
try, classical, blues, and
traditional—to Lex-
ington.

Last
year, for ex-
ample, the
artists included
such names as
The ‘Tony Rice Unit
(bluegrass), Sweet Honey
in the Rock (a cappella),
Beausoleil (Cajun), Pentangle
(British folk), ‘The Seldom Scene
(bluegrass), and ‘The Mighty Spar-
row (calypso). Lime Kiln has also bene-
fited from a long association with the
acoustic singing/songwriting duo of
Robin and Linda Williams.
Besides appearing every year,
Robin and Linda have col-

laborated with Don Baker
on several of the Kiln’s

original productions,
including the ever-popular
Stonewall Country.

Harwood credits a large part of the
concert success on Lexington’s lo-
cation as a crossroads of sorts and the
fact that the Lime Kiln has achieved
some fame among musicians as a fun
place to play.

William C. “Burr” Datz, ’75, who
has been the concert production man-
ager for the past two years, agrees,
citing the laid-back atmosphere as a
draw. “The best thing about Lime Kiln,”
he adds, “is that the whole is greater
than the sum of all the parts.” ‘Two
years ago, Datz, who plays in a local
bluegrass band, was asked to join

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

 

bluegrass heroes John McEuen and
Vassar Clements on stage during a
show. He’s still glowing.

While the concerts and other acts,
such as the Mapapa Acrobats from
Kenya and the Leningrad Clown Mimes,
have become popular mainstays of the
summer season, the theatrical produc-
tions are the heart and soul of Lime Kiln.

Since the beginning, it has been
Baker’s dream to “create, present, and
tour work reflective of the indigenous
stories and music of [the Southern Ap-
palachian] region.” He says, “The place
itself is such a remarkable experience,
it is important to make the work match
the Kiln.”

Since the second season, Lime Kiln
Arts has developed and produced nine
new works, including three historical
plays—Svonewall Country (a musical re-
volving around the life of Stonewall
Jackson and the Civil War in the Valley);
NAT (a play based on Nat Turner’s
1831 slave revolt); and Rebellion (about
Bacon’s rebellion in Jamestown in 1676);
versions of Virginia mountain folk
tales—Muna Meg and 3 Drops of Blood;
and stories of Appalachian family life
like Virgil Powers:Backlife.

20 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

The historical
play, Stonewall
Country, with
a local
hero
as
its
sub-
Lect “H
and catchy
Robin and
Linda Williams-
penned tunes, was
Lime Kiln’s first certified
“hit” and has since become a
perennial favorite. “Stonewall
Country has become something of

an institution,” says Baker. “I know of

some people who have seen it upwards

of 50 times.”

From the beginning, Lime Kiln
has enjoyed considerable support among
the community. “It’s one of the few
places in the county where you can see
people from all walks of life having a

good time together,” observed Harwood.

Usually, about 30 percent of the audi-
ence comes from within Rockbridge
County, while over 50 percent come
from other parts of Virginia, mainly

AS vf)

 

   
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
 

from within a
one- to one
and-a-half-
hour

; driv-

S

4

ing ra-

dius. The
rest are pri-
marily tourists
who stop in Lex-
Dede on their way

ieee

through Virginia.

 *

©

*

e

Back in his office, Baker explains
that, as a non-profit organization, Lime
Kiln doesn’t make the big bucks.

“About 40-45 percent of costs are
covered by ticket sales, so the rest must
come from elsewhere,” he says. “Foun-
dation support is always welcome, but
the majority of our financial support
still comes from individuals. Last year,
individuals gave Lime Kiln twice as
much as the National Endowment for

the Arts and the Virginia Commission

for the Arts combined.”

Welcome news has come recently
‘n the form of a $21,500 Rockefeller
Grant to develop a new play and Baker
has been hard at work developing the
story for next season. Since money for
the arts is so hard to come by these
davs, the grant is looked on as a
harbinger of increased funding in the
future.

Actually, there is no real off season
for the Lime Kiln anymore. ‘The sum-
mer actors and technicians scatter when
the season’s over, but the resident com-
pany goes immediately into rehearsal
for the fall, winter, and spring tours.
This year, though, the entire cast and
crew of Stonewall Country traveled to
Knoxville, Tenn., for a well-received
show in front of 1,100. ‘The smaller,
resident company will travel to western
and southwestern Virginia, performing
versions of Muna Meg and 3 Drops of

 

Blood before high school stu-dents. In
all, over 40,000 extra people have seen
Lime Kiln productions since touring
began full-time in 1989.

Baker’s eyes light up when he
describes this most recent out-
reach into farther flung
communities. He de-
lights in bringing
these historical
plays and old
mountain tales to
people who may have lost
touch with their local culture.
“In a lot of ways, things haven’t
changed that much in eight years,”
he says. “Our mission is still the same,
only it’s getting broader exposure.”

Baker believes that, above all,
theater should be of and for its particu-
lar place. “The purpose of theater is to
develop a body of work that reflects
peoples’ places of origin. ‘That is one of
Lime Kiln’s greatest successes—to

contribute a body of original
work, as well as to be able
to move Shakespeare
to the southern Ap-

  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

palachians. But
there has to
be a cer-
tain

cohe-

siveness
throughout.”

Eight years
ago, Baker was
leaning back in his
chair and dreaming out
loud to anyone within ear
shot, “I just know it’s going to work.”

In that short time, Lime Kiln’s done

more than just work. It has thrived,
carving out, both literally and figura-
tively, a place of its own.

Lime Kiln featured artists Linda {left} and Robin Williams rehearse while Doug Harwood keeps time in the background (p. 20, top). The stage at Lime Kiln also has been
£raced by the larger-than-life costumes for Munci Meg (p. 20, bottom); the bluegrass music of John McEuen; and the phantasmagoric costumes designed for this summer’s
production of The ‘Tempest.

WA&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

‘Lhe Generals’ Report

by brian logue

 

‘Went whose
lives revolve around predict-
ing the unpredictable, would
have loved the winter sports
season at Washington and
Lee. ‘This was one forecast

that came true.

‘There were a few surprises along
the way for the Generals in the winter
months of 1991-92, but by and large
everything that the coaches expected
back in November held true when
February rolled around.

Verne Canfield’s basketball team
was his youngest in his 28 years as a
head coach at W&L, and as predicted,
it took its share of lumps during the
course of a very long 7-18 season.

‘The women’s swimming team had
only nine members on the team, and as
feared if not expected, the Generals had
their string of four straight Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference titles come to
an end only because of a lack of depth.

‘The men’s swimming team
brought in a talented freshman class,
and they lived up to their advance bil-
ling, helping senior All-American Doug
Brown lead W&L to five straight dual
wins to close the season.

The wrestling team also had a
key senior in Peer Soderberg, and it
counted heavily on seven freshmen in
the starting lineup, too. As expected,
Soderberg was the most consistent per-
former, and the freshmen had their
moments.

And the women’s track and field
team easily breezed to a third straight
unofficial ODAC Indoor title, while the
men’s team repeated their 1991 Out-
door showing with a third-place finish.

22 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

34

2%
22 A
-¥ oo
2 ee

 

egies.
oe
t
rn

js Se
oe ORE?

t«

*~ pow

Pe
a
os
wr.
or
=
Pe

oe

BASKETBALL

Of the 15 players who made up
W&L’s opening-game roster, only five
had played a single minute of college
basketball entering the season. Of those
five, none had been a full-time starter.
‘The prognosis wasn’t good, and unfor-
tunately, the prognosis was mostly right.

Nonetheless, W&L started its
season by rallying in the second half of
the season-opener to beat Sewanee and

  
  
   
    

   

<i hone
D>. peta naee nace Ps ae
? Nai * AAA, is ee

a So

   

eae
ma eS x

 

 

_

Bryan Watkins looks to drive to the basket in W&L's win over Lynchburg.

advance to the finals of the W&L Tip-
Off ‘Tournament. In the finals, W&L
met up with Wooster, a team that was
ranked in the top 10 in the nation
much of the year, and Wooster showed
it, pounding W&L by 23 points. The
loss proved to be the first of six straight
for the Generals, including a discourag-
ing 49-47 loss to Massachusetts
Institute of ‘Technology where W&L
went scoreless for nearly seven

minutes and saw an eight-point second-
half lead disappear.

W&lL went to work during the
holiday break following fall term exams
and the rededicated Generals came
back with a vengeance. W&L opened
the new year by hosting the W&L
Invitational, and the Generals played
some of their best basketball of the
season, beating Bowdoin in the opener
by 10. Junior guard Bryan Watkins
scored 25 points in the opening round
to lead W&L to the win. The champi-
onship game appeared to be a bit of a
mismatch. The Generals came in at just
2-6 and opponent Colorado College
entered the game 10-1 and in the midst
of a nine-game winning streak. But
W&L senior captain Mark Melton had
a career day, scoring 20 points to lead
W&L to the upset and the title in the
Invitational for the sixth year in a row.
Watkins added 18 in the championship
game and was named the tournament’s
MVP, joining Melton on the All-'Tour-
nament team.

Wé&L then entered the heart of its
ODAC schedule with 13 straight games
in one of the toughest Division III
leagues in the country. The Generals
were unable to maintain their champi-
onship touch and won just three of the
games. lhe most dramatic of the wins
was a 74-72 triumph over Lynchburg
on the road. W&L trailed by 15 points
in the second half and won the game
on Bob Ehret’s put-back as the final
buzzer sounded.

‘The last week of the season was
Spent trying to qualify for one of the
eight spots in the ODAC Tournament.
The Generals entered the week in
ninth place, one game behind Randolph-
Macon, which held the final spot. W&L,
needing to go undefeated in its two
remaining conference games to have a
shot at making the tournament,
opened the week strongly with a
convincing 16-point non-league win
over Mary Washington. But W&L’s
ODAC Tournament hopes were
dashed in an 80-74 loss at Eastern
Mennonite. W&L was outscored 30-3
at the free throw line in the loss to the

Doug Brown flashes a winner’s grin after
another successful race in Twombly Pool.

Royals, who had lost by 13 at W&L
earlier in the year. ‘he Generals closed
out the season with a 13-point loss to
Randolph-Macon, a game that showed
off the talents of perhaps the bright
light of the future, freshman John
Rogers. He had a career high 22 in the
game, in-cluding five three-pointers.
W&L finished the year with a 7-18
record and 3-15 mark in the ODAC.
But there is much to look forward to.
Six of the top seven scorers on this year’s
team are expected back for next year,
including leading scorer Bryan Watkins
and second-leading scorer Paul Baker.

MEN’S SWIMMING

After a disappointing 1-5 season in
1991, the Generals brought in a
talented freshman class to go along
with some top-notch upperclassmen
this year. The final result was a 7-4
season that included five straight wins
at the end of the season to go with a
pair of NCAA qualifiers.

Senior Doug Brown and freshman
John Rowe typified that meshing of old
and new, as the twosome led W&L to

 

the winning season. Both qualified for
nationals at the Liberal Arts Invitational
in Indiana, where the Generals finished
third as a team in the 12-school event.
Rowe went on to earn honorable
mention All-America status with a 12th-
place finish in the 400 IM at nationals.
He posted a time of 4:09.12.

Junior Andrew Pearson was also a
mainstay on the team, claiming the 50-
yard freestyle as his personal domain.
Pearson lost in the 50 in only one dual
meet all season long.

Of W&L’s four losses, one came
against a Division I opponent and two
came against national power Allegheny.
Among the notable wins were a 70-
point thrashing of neighbor VMI, a 20-
point win over Georgetown, and a 15-
point win over Mary Washington.

WOMEN’S SWIMMING

First-year coach Kiki Jacobs had a
close-knit gang of nine that kept one
ODAC streak alive and almost kept
another one going. ‘The Generals won
all four of their ODAC regular-season
meets to keep a five-year ODAC
winning streak alive, but they saw their
string of ODAC titles end at four,
despite winning the majority of the
events at the ODAC Championships.
‘The difference was depth, and the
Generals just didn’t have enough of it.

W&L finished the year 5-9, and
you didn’t have to look much further
than Claire Dudley or Jodi Herring to
find a reason for most of the wins.

Dudley set two school records over
the course of the year and was named
the Atlantic States Swimmer of the
Meet after winning three individual
events and four relays at the Atlantic
States/ODAC Championships. Her
showings at the meet earned her a third
straight trip to nationals.

Herring was named the ODAC
Swimmer of the Year after winning two
individual events and four relays at the
Atlantic States/ODAC Championships.
She capped her brilliant career by
winning two events at the Liberal Arts
Invitational.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 23

\

WRESTLING

Describing Gary Franke’s wres-
tling team as “young” is a bit like
calling Father Time “old.” Seven dif-
ferent freshmen saw significant time in
a lineup that featured only eight or nine
members (rather than the standard 10)
much of the year because of injuries at
the higher weight classes

Only senior Peer Soderberg was a
consistent force among the upperclass-
men. Soderberg finished the season
with the team’s best record at 15-9 and
gave a strong showing at the NCAA
Regionals. ‘The 177-pounder, won his
first match in dramatic fashion, but
then ran into defending national
champion Peter Wang of Chicago and
lost. Soderberg went on to win two
more matches in the consolation
bracket before being eliminated. He
finished his four-year W&L career with
52 victories.

Freshman Adam Williams and Eric
Shirley were the leaders of the young-
sters. Williams, a 134-pounder, finished
9-11, with two losses coming at the
NCAA Regionals. He led the team
with 39 takedowns. Shirley, at 126
pounds, joined the team at the start of
winter term and posted a 7-5 record.

‘The Generals finished the dual
season with a 1-3 record, but W&L led

24 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Peer Soderberg fends off an opponent at the W&L Invitational.

 

~

two of the three losses before having to
forfeit the final two weight classes
because of injuries.

INDOOR TRACK & FIELD

‘The ODAC does not recognize
women’s track and field as an official
conference sport, but W&L continues
to claim bragging rights in the confer-
ence. W&L outdistanced both
Roanoke and Eastern Mennonite by 75
points to win their third straight “unof-
ficial” ODAC title.

Freshman Sarah Gilbert was the
high scorer in the meet with five top
three finishes. Gilbert won the high
jump and also ran a leg on a record-
setting 4 x 100-meter relay team.

Sophomore Wendy Neel set
ODAC records in the long jump, 55-
meter dash, and with the 4 x 100 relay
team. Freshman Kim Herring set an
ODAC mark in the 800 meters and
finished second in the 1,500 meters,
setting a school record in the process.

The highlight of the meet for the
men’s team was the winning 4 x 100
relay team that featured two sopho-
mores and one freshman. Scott Covey,
John Robinson, and Hayne Hodges
teamed with senior John McCallum to
smoke the rest of the field in the win-
ning effort.

 

 

 

 

 

Basketball (8-17)

W&L 67, Sewanee 58
Wooster 76, W&L 53
Hampden-Sydney 84, W&L 55
Bridgewater 74, W&L 61
Pomona-Pitzer 65, W&L 58
MIT 49, W&L 47

Emory & Henry 90, W&L 75
W&L 77, Bowdoin 67

W&L 83, Colorado College 78
Virginia Wesleyan 64, W&L 56
Guilford 76, W&L 67

WA&L 74, Lynchburg 72
Randolph-Macon 79, W&L 46
W&L 71, Eastern Mennonite 58
Emory & Henry 83, W&L 69
Hampden-Sydney 84, W&L 63
Roanoke 98, W&L 76

Virginia Wesleyan 86, W&L 74
Guilford 68, W&L 65

W&L 71, Lynchburg 65
Roanoke 78, W&L 67

W&L 78, Mary Washington 62
Eastern Mennonite 80, W&L 74
Randolph-Macon 66, W&L 53

Men’s Swimming (7-4)
Allegheny 119, W&L 67

W&L 134, Centre 42

Allegheny 123, W&L 79

W&L 137, VMI 67

Charleston 124, W&L 81
Catholic 106, W&L 91

W&L 134, Buffalo State 71
W&L 119, Georgetown 97
W&L 120, Swarthmore 67
W&L 110, Mary Washington 95
W&L 133, Radford 49

3rd at Liberal Arts Invitational

 

Women’s Swimming (5-9)
Allegheny 132, W&L 52

W&L 97, Centre 85

Ithaca 150.5, W&L 34.5

Allegheny 154, W&L 44

W&L 145, Sweet Briar 91

Charleston 143, W&L 39

Catholic 116, W&L 77

W&L 116, Mary Baldwin 65
Georgetown 110, W&L 93
Swarthmore 123, W&L 72

W&L 137, Bridgewater 25

W&L 139, Hollins 123

Mary Washington 111.5, W&L 59.5
Radford 95, W&L 90

2nd at ODAC Championships

2nd at Atlantic States Championships
5th at Liberal Arts Invitational

Wrestling (1-3)

18th at Lebanon Valley Invitational
Davidson 29, W&L 18

Anderson 42, W&L 9

W&L 24, Johns Hopkins 19
Western Maryland 27, W&L 22

7th at W&L Invitational

5th at Mid-South Invitational

5th at Virginia State Championships

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sanders speaks of

 
    

 

 

CRC study produces ‘civility’ principle

ashington and Lee’s Confidential Review Commit-
\VV/ tee has called for the establishment of a “Principle of
Civility and Decency” to be used as a standard for
judging complaints of harassment and discrimination on campus.

The policy is the result of a six-month self-study completed
in February by the CRC. ‘The CRC is a seven-member standing
committee of faculty and students that reviews cases of harass-
ment and is empowered to impose a broad range of sanctions, in-
cluding counseling, probation, suspension, and expulsion.

‘The CRC’s report, which recommends that the CRC con-
tinue to judge harassment cases at W&L, calls the principle, “a
general policy, not a detailed code of conduct.”

The introduction to the principle reads, “Students, faculty,
administrators, guests, and townspeople will not be subjected to
disrespectful or improper conduct on the part of members of the
Washington and Lee community.”

Other proposals include providing student advocates for both
the accused and accuser and allowing any CRC case to be tried by

the Student Conduct Committee if both accuser and accused agree.

The CRC’s report next will be reviewed by the Student
Affairs Committee, which will make its recommendations to the
faculty. ‘The faculty will make the final decision on the recom-
mendations. ‘T’hat decision is expected to come in May.

 

Founders’ Day con

“+ PAGE 26/ THE

the gentleman at
vocation

wenty-nine W&L stu-
[ ee and four special

initiates were honored in
January during the annual
Founders’ Day Convocation
in Lee Chapel with the
annual tapping in ceremony
and the stirring Convocation
address by University His-
torian I. ‘Taylor Sanders.

‘The students were

inducted into the national
leadership fraternity for their
service and leadership to the
University in the areas of
academics, student govern-
ment, social and religious
organizations, athletics, and
publications. ODK was estab-
lished at Washington and Lee
in 1914. The Founders’ Day
Convocation commemorates
Gen. Robert E. Lee’s birth-
day. ‘This year marked the

121st celebration of Founders’

Day.

Joining the student
inductees were four honorary
initiates: Robert C. Dyer, ’34;
Giddy Dyer; Edward A.
Turville, 36; and John M.
Gunn Jr., 45, associate
professor of economics.

Sanders, a history profes-
sor at W&L since 1969, told
the Founders’ Day audience
that Robert E. Lee’s legacy
of the morally thoughtful
Southern gentleman must be
understood and not confused
with the selfish, egoistic, dis-
criminatory Southern person-
ality that writer Walker Percy
described as the Bowie-knife-
and-pistol gentry. He con-
cluded his memorable address
with an admonition:

“Let me end with some
concrete examples that might
start us all on the road to the
moral thoughtfulness that I
believe Lee championed.

“Every time any one of us
helps a hapless freshman, com-
forts a grieving friend, cor-
dially greets a stranger, gives

GAZETTE ¢

of himself in community ser-
vice, or invites a colleague to
church, we take a step in the
right direction. Every time a
person with power uses it
lovingly and responsibly to
assuage despair, pain, humili-
ation, or alienation, Lee’s
legacy shines brighter.

“Yet, sadly his legacy
wanes each time I as a faculty
member forget the prime im-
perative of why I’m here and
neglect my pupils or my
teaching in order to pursue
my private research; or am
unable to forgive and forget
some ancient slight; or fail to
give my all to a weak or
troubled student; or thought-
lessly savage a pupil; or heed-
lessly doubt his word or proc-
tor his exam; or stand by in-
differently and allow a com-
mittee to create zany, need-
less, bureaucratic rules; or
place precedent before the
person; or treat a colleague
cruelly and unjustly in a
tenure or promotion dispute.

“It grows darkest when
members of our community
get drunk, destroy property,
harass a custodian, disturb
neighbors, insult a waitress,
utter a racial slur, mistreat a
pledge, or brutalize a date.
Every time we stand by with
indifference when a needless,
thoughtless act harms another
person; or we play a power
game that humiliates some-
one else; or we demand our
rights at the expense of a fel-
low sojourner in a way that
causes embarassment, frustra-
tion, anger, or pain—every
time we do that, we dance the
thoughtless reel of the Bowie-
knife-and-pistol gentry. In
doing that, we become cham-
pions of a darker, twisted
Dixie legacy that Lee the educa-
tor and Percy the writer spent
a lifetime trying to erase.”

Tapped in to ODK were
third-year law students Scott
A. Butler (Pipestem, W.Va.);
Bonnie L. Hobbs (Alexandria,
Va.); Elizabeth L. Ewert
(Roanoke, Va.); Severn S.

 

 

 

a

Miller (Lexington, Va.); and
Lori A. Phelps (Girard, Pa.).

The undergraduate seniors
named to ODK were Wang-
dali Bacdayan (Natchitoches,
La.); Armando F. Benincasa
(Lexington, Va.); Sarah E.
Briggs (Maryville, ‘Tenn.);
John T. Cox (Shreveport,
La.); E. Whitney Hopkins
(Severna Park, Md.); William
G. Jones (Memphis, ‘Tenn.);
Jennifer E. Kacmar (Hock-
essin, Del.); Marjolane Merry-
weather (Cambridge, Md.);
Heather M. Midkiff (Virginia
Beach, Va.); Michael G.
Patrick (Princeton, N.J.);
Laura Pilachowski (Baltimore);
E. Lauren Rowland (Ellicott
City, Md.); Katherine A.
Walther (Bealeton, Va.);
Morgan E. Warner (Odessa,
Texas); Robert D. Weisgerber
(Mount Pleasant, Pa.); E.
Dale Wyatt (Radford, Va.).

Juniors tapped into ODK
were John S. Darden
(Gainesville, Ga.); J. Heath
Dixon (Plano, Texas); William
N. Hannah (Decatur, Ga.); B.
Robyn McCord (Houston,
Texas); Richard J. Peltz
(Cockeysville, Md.); Amy E.
Roberson (Salem, Va.); Susan
H. Wootton (Marietta, Ga.).

Robert Dyer serves as co-
chairman and director of Acme
Printing Ink Co. In 1988,
Robert and Giddy Dyer estab-
lished the William C. Dyer
Honor Scholarship at W&L in
honor of Dyer’s father.

Giddy Erwin Dyer became
the first woman elected to the
DuPage (IIl.) County Board
in 1961. In 1968, she was
elected to the Illinois House,
where she served 12 years.

‘Turville has served as
president of the Florida
Tennis Association, president
of the United States Tennis
Association, and captain of the
Davis Cup team.

Gunn, an authority on
U.S. international finance,
joined the economics faculty
in W&L’s School of Com-
merce, Economics, and
Politics in 1957.

 

 

Fraternity suspended after damaging

house interior

n initial five-year suspension of the
A Delta Tau Delta fraternity by the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee was later
reduced by the SAC to a one-year suspension
and three subsequent years of critical probation
after an appeal by the fraternity and a review by
Pres. John D. Wilson.

Wilson, who told The Ring-tum Phi that “the
penalty needed to be rethought,” recommended
the SAC review its initial decision, and the SAC
decided to make a reduction.

“T think the penalty...should punish the
current chapter without jeopardizing the pros-
pect of a renewed and strengthened presence of
the fraternity at Washington and Lee,” Wilson
wrote in his recommendation to the SAC.

The decision means the chapter is suspended
at W&L until July 1, 1993.

The SAC suspension came about as a result
of damage done to the house in December.
The house was scheduled to begin the Fra-
ternity Renaissance Program in January.

‘The damage to the house, discovered by
house corporation president Taylor Cole, ’75,
on Dec. 22, included broken windows, de-
stroyed walls, scattered ceiling tiles, and a dis-
mantled brick bar.

In its initial ruling, the SAC termed the
damage to the house “systematic destruction”
and a “serious violation” of the Standards for
Fraternities. In its appeal, Delta Tau Delta
stressed that the damage was the result of
isolated acts that were not premeditated or
officially sanctioned by the house.

Robert Wilson, ’93, house president, told
The Ring-tum Phi, that Pres. Wilson “was con-
cerned about any malicious feeling toward the
University. We were trying to reassure him that
... there was no rebellion against [Fraternity]
Renaissance.”

In reducing the amount of time for the sus-
pension, the SAC also called for the following
provisions:

Request the International Delta ‘Tau Delta
Fraternity to place the W&L charter in the
hands of a special ad hoc alumni committee.
That committee would then be charged with
conducting a full review of the W&L chapter.
The object of that review is to remove mem-
bers who are unwilling or unable to embrace
the values and ideals of the fraternity and the
University’s Standards for Fraternities. ‘The
president of the Interfraternity Council also will
participate in the review. ‘The International
Fraternity, working with the ad hoc alumni com-
mittee, will conduct a leadership reorientation

 

program for all
members who

survive the
membership
review.

 

Invite the
House Corpora-
tion to submit a new application to participate
in the Fraternity Renaissance Program. Ifa
favorable review is conducted, renovation on
the house will begin in September 1992, with
completion and occupancy set for Sept. 1, 1993.
The fraternity had been accepted into the
program, but that acceptance was set aside as a
result of the destruction that occurred in
December.

During the suspension, the fraternity is not
permitted to participate in any aspect of fra-
ternity life at Washington and Lee, other than
the review and the reorientation process out-
lined above. This action is directed at the fra-
ternity chapter and not at the individuals who
were members of the chapter.

In recommending the reduction, Pres.
Wilson said, “SAC was correct in assigning a
penalty that reached out beyond the individu-
als to take into account the chapter’s failure to
observe the Standards for Fraternities.” How-
ever, Wilson said, several mitigating circum-
stances warranted a review and lessening of the
penalty. Those circumstances include:

The long and honorable tradition of Delta
Tau Delta at Washington and Lee. ‘The penalty,
if possible, Wilson said, should punish the cur-
rent chapter without jeopardizing the prospect
of a renewed and strengthened presence at
Washington and Lee.

Despite the destruction in December, the
chapter has made significant progress in the last
two years. Membership has grown, community
service projects have been embraced, and the
chapter’s overall standing was greatly improved.

The leadership of Delta Tau Delta House
Corporation President Taylor Cole has been
strong and selfless. His vision of the future of
the fraternity and its partnership with alumni
leaders is consistent with the Standards for
Fraternities.

 

cious

* THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 27 #

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

King Day speaker stresses that ‘task is not finished’

early a quarter cen-
tury after the death
of Martin Luther

King Jr., the work for social
justice is not done, and indeed,
the struggle for civil rights is
with us every day. So spoke
Cheryl ‘Townsend Gilkes in
Lee Chapel in Washington
and Lee’s third annual Dr.
Martin Luther King Jr. Lecture
on Justice and Non-Violent
Social Change.

Gilkes’ lecture in Lee
Chapel, titled “The Unfin-
ished Quest for Social Justice,”
was part of a number of events,
honoring Martin Luther King
Day in January and Black His-
tory Month in February. Other
events included a number of
audio and video presentations,
forums, and speeches, inclu-
ding a lecture on black history
at W&L by visiting professor
of history and A.B.D. Fellow
‘Ted Delaney and a discussion
by poet and author Nikki Gio-
vanni, presented by the Black
Law Student Association.

Gilkes’ lecture touched
on the need to continue to
fight for social justice of all
kinds, especially in a world
where many have forgotten
what King was fighting.

Gilkes, who has received
her B.A., M.A, and Ph.D.
degrees from Northeastern, is

the John D. and Catherine T.
MacArther Associate Profes-
sor of Sociology and African-
American Studies at Colby
College in Massachusetts.

Paraphrasing from scrip-
ture often cited by King, Gilkes
told her audience to be ready
to act.

“The trumpet shall sound
again and again and again for
our unfinished quest for social
justice,” she said. “... The task
is not finished. And we must
continually remind ourselves
of how unfinished the task is.”

Gilkes said the civil rights
movement of the 1960s has led
to a whole language of rights
and has spawned a number of
other movements. The efforts
toward an equal rights amend-
ment, the work for the rights
of senior citizens and the handi-
capped. The civil rights strug-
gle has brought new attention
to the problems of poverty
and rights of children, as well,
Gilkes explained.

Gilkes posed a challenge
to her audience, a challenge
that she believe would be
echoed by King.

“What will we do to guar-
antee people the basic rights
of survival?” she asked. “The
trumpet needs to sound in our
souls this evening in the same
way it sounded in the soul of

 

@ PAGE 28/THE GAZETTE @

Martin Luther King. The
quest for social justice did not
begin and end with the life
and death of Dr. King.”

‘The Martin Luther King
Jr. Lecture is sponsored by the
Howerton Fund, the Minority
Student Association, and the
Lexington Area Ministerial
Association.

Simpson receives

art group award

amela H. Simpson,
professor of art history,
was recently presented

with an award of distinction
honoring her many years of
service to the Southeastern
College Art Conference.
Simpson was presented with
the award at the SECAC
annual meeting in Memphis,
‘Tenn.

Moore family
establishes
new scholarship

new scholarship has
been established at
Washington and Lee

in memory of ‘Thomas Thorn
Moore, ’26, his father Frank
Moore, 1896L, and other mem-
bers of the Moore family of
Rockbridge County who at-
tended Washington College
and Washington and Lee.

Established in 1985, the
scholarship was created by
W&L graduates and descen-
dants of the Moore family,
‘Thomas ‘Thorn Moore Jr., ’63,
of Charlotte, N.C., and his wife,
Carol Scott Moore; and
Hullihen Williams Moore, ’65,
of Richmond, Va., and his wife,
Nancy Delano Moore, with
their children, Frank H. Moore,
"92, and Sara Delano Moore.

The scholarship will be
awarded with preference to
Kentucky, North Carolina,
and Virginia students.

 

SECAC is a regional association of 500 individual members

and 80 institutional members in 15 southeastern states.

Founded

in 1941, SECAC is the oldest college art regional organization.

Simpson has been a member since 1974 and served as presi-
dent from 1987-90. From 1979-82, she was the editor of SECAC’s
publication, Southeastern College Art Review.

Simpson joined the W&L faculty in 1973. In addition to
teaching art history, she has also served as associate dean of the
college of arts and sciences. She has done extensive research on
historic architecture, especially in Lexington and Rockbridge
County, and was co-author with Royster Lyle of The Architecture

of Historic Lexington.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lal

 

Aa e448
ft 7 s/
*

4 4, é
TT wan)
4s sa
4 e@

La
-
“7
,

4
ha
ke
i

f
f
*

 

)

Mh i

Students scramble for bargain buys at the album sale sponsored by
WLUR. Funds went to the Muscular Dystrophy Association as part
of W&L’s Superdance contributions.

 

Superdance surpasses $30,000 goal

at annual event to benefit alumnus’ son

ashington and
Lee’s 14th annual
Muscular Dystrophy

Administration Superdance in
February raised over $30,000,
a 12 percent increase over the
amount raised in 1991.

This year’s total of
$30,240 was raised in the
name of Andrew Slay, the son
of Richmond, Va., alumnus
Joe Slay, 72. The younger
Slay suffers from spinal mus-
cular atrophy, one of 40 strains

Se

of muscular dystrophy and the
leading killer of children under
the age of 2.

Co-chairman Fred Ren-
neker, a senior from Birming-
ham, Ala., told 74e Ring-tum
Phi he was pleased with the
event.

“All organizations involved
were extremely helpful and
supportive of the cause,” he
said. “The entire effort went
very smoothly, we couldn’t
ask for a better weekend.”

® THE GAZETTE/PAGE29

New wing approved for Reeves Center

final approval at its February meeting to a proposed free-

standing addititon to the Reeves Center to house a collec-
tion of Chinese export porcelain, jade, and furnishings given to
the University by Elizabeth Otey Watson of Lynchburg, Va.

The Watson Gallery, funded by a gift from Mrs. Watson, will
be located directly behind the Reeves Center, which houses the
University’s extensive collection of Chinese export porcelain.
The addition was designed by John Copelin of the William A.
Hall Partnership of New York.

Discussion of the gallery’s location and design began nine
months ago when the board’s capital projects committee began a
review of the concept and scope of the project. At the board’s
October meeting, the committee was asked to conduct a final
review of the proposed location. It was also asked to review
alternative locations and to evaluate the project itself.

The committee invited John Ayers, a widely respected
British scholar associated with the Victoria and Albert Museum
in London, to assess the importance of the Watson artifacts
relative to the University’s unique collection.

“Every aspect of the project—the location, the style of
architecture of the building, its compatability with our historic
front campus, and the value and importance of the collection
itself—were thoroughly discussed and evaluated,” said Beverly
M. DuBose, ’62, chairman of the committee. “It was only after
this comprehensive evaluation that the committee was able to
recommend full approval of the project at its original site.”

In addition to its own evaluation, the committee also
submitted the plans to the Virginia Department of Historic
Resources. DuBose said that department gave its unqualified
approval to the project.

“The committee and the board fully recognize that in
approving this project we are committing important open space
on the campus,” DuBose said. “In 1988, the board approved a
comprehensive master plan for growth and construction on the
entire campus. The spot where the Watson Gallery will be
located was designated in that plan as an area for future construc-
tion. In making the decision on the Watson Gallery, the
committee and the board carefully weighed the visual impact the
building would have on the historic front campus.

“Given the extreme desirability for the collection to be near
the Reeves Center for academic purposes and the construction
problems associated with alternative sites, we felt this was the
best recommendation possible.”

Combined with the collection already housed at the Reeves
Center, the Watson Gallery will make Washington and Lee one
of the nation’s foremost centers for research on Chinese export
porcelain and the history of trade between the United States and
China.

“Mrs. Watson’s collection will be an extremely valuable
addition to Washington and Lee,” President John D. Wilson
said. “The collection housed in the Watson Gallery will greatly
enhance the collection we have already assembled in the Reeves
Center. I am confident that the Watson Gallery will add
significantly to our academic programs in East Asian Studies, the
fine arts, and in many other aspects of our curriculum.”

Construction on the addition will begin in the spring and is
scheduled to be completed in early 1993.

7 he Washington and Lee University Board of Trustees gave

 

 

 

 

 

 

Arias spoke to a number of classes in his visit to W&L.

Arias calls for ‘global partnership’

obel Peace Prize-
winning diplomat
Oscar Arias, the for-

mer president of Costa Rica,
inaugurated the Robert L.
Telford Distinguished Lec-
turer series at Washington and
Lee in January with a speech
that called for the growing
new world order to be truly
global in nature.

Arias, who spoke on the
topic “Lasting Security in the
Post-Cold War Era,” argued

that the development of peace
in the developed countries of
the world must be shared with
the third world. Such humani-
tarian concern will help to
eliminate many present-day
conditions that are laying the
foundation for chaos.

“The greatest advantage
of the dismantlement of the
Cold War has been to enable
all of humanity to focus its at-
tention upon other problems
as serious as the danger of a

 

nuclear confrontation,” he said.

‘The world problems that
grew through the Cold War
because of inattention might
well have been resolved had
the U.S. and then-Soviet
Union not been involved in
massive military buildup.

“It is not an exaggeration
to state that the cost of the
arms race in the last few
decades would have been
sufficient to eliminate all of
the world’s poverty,” Arias
offered. “Similarly, the ideolo-
gical manipulation and orga-
nized intolerance of this con-
frontation delayed political
development and democracy
in many ‘Third-World nations.”

Arias was the president of
Costa Rica from 1986 to 1990.
It was through his efforts that
the Central American Peace
Plan was signed in 1987, where-
by the presidents of Central
America committed them-
selves to diplomacy for re-
solving conflicts and seeking
solutions of national problems.

Arias warned of the false
sense of security that has de-
veloped as a result of the col-
lapse of the Soviet Union and
the quick success in the Gulf
War. ‘There are great and
many problems in the lesser
countries of the world, prob-

Smith death result of torture by drug traffickers

drug traffickers in Peru in 1989, had discovered a drug

processing laboratory and had learned when a shipment of
coca paste was leaving an airport in Peru’s jungle, the Associated
Press reported in February.

The AP reported that the Lima daily newspaper U/tima Hora
claimed to have identified Smith’s murderers. Smith, a reporter
for the 7ampa Tribune, was found tortured to death in November
1989 near Uchiza in the Upper Huallaga Valley, 250 miles
northeast of Lima.

Smith was in Peru on a working vacation, looking into the
drug trade in the valley, which is the source of about a third of
the world’s coca leaf, the primary ingredient in cocaine.

In the months following Smith’s death, an Interior Ministry
investigation found that Smith had been captured by the Maoist
Shining Path rebels and sold to drug traffickers for $30,000, the
bounty traffickers had offered for anyone suspected of being a
U.S. agent.

- odd C. Smith, ’83, the Florida journalist who was killed by

 

i

lems that Arias says may be
transforming the Cold War
into a hot peace.

“This hot peace...pre-
vents a great part of humanity
from fulfilling its aspirations
for a better life,” he said.
“Forcing a country to lower
the quality of life of its citi-
zens to levels of extreme
poverty is no different than
subjecting them to relentless,
military aggression.”

Arias also pointed to the
undesirable effects that Third-
World debt and poverty could
produce, effects that may ulti-
mately return totalitarianism
to the world’s political stage.

“We need a new global
partnership for sustainable de-
velopment,” he said. “But
this will not be possible if the
poorest countries must continue
to use all of their export earn-
ings to service their debt.”

But Arias concluded with
a hope. ‘The future lies in the
promotion of an environment
of concern, he said.

“Is it inevitable that our
descendants will record that
we lived in such a strange
earth?” Arias asked. “Let us
prove the historians wrong.
Let us take collective respon-
sibility to ensure that ours is
the era of global opportunities.’

?

But according to the Lima newspaper, the Shining Path had
nothing to do with Smith’s death. The newspaper reported that
Smith had been killed for information he’d uncovered about the

drug trade.

The newspaper said that Smith had unwittingly flown to
Uchiza with an air taxi company owned by an alleged drug
trafficker and discovered a lab belonging to other traffickers.
Ultima Hora also said that Smith was waiting for his flight out of
Uchiza when he was abducted by armed men. The paper said
the 28-year-old died after three days of torture in a hotel room

owned by the traffickers.

Peruvian authorities did not comment on the report.

The Tribune and the family and friends of Smith estab-
lished a fellowship in his memory at Washington and Lee in 1990.
The ‘Todd C. Smith Memorial Fellowship is designed to help
aspiring journalists at W&L become foreign correspondents.

% PAGE30/THE GAZETTE ¢ |

 

 

 

 

 

_

35 inducted into Phi Beta Kappa

1991 graduates were elected into membership in W&L’s

Gamma of Virginia chapter of Phi Beta Kappa in March. In
addition to the student initiates, the W&L chapter has elected
one honorary member, Edwin D. Craun, W&L professor of

T hirtv-two Washington and Lee undergraduates and two

English.

Craun, a member of the faculty at W&L since 1971, is cur-
rently head of the English department. He received his bache-
lor’s degree in English from Wheaton College and his Ph.D. from
Princeton University. Craun teaches Fantasy Literature, Medieval
Narrative Literature, and Earlier 17th-Century English Litera-
ture, among other courses.

Phi Beta Kappa was installed at Washington and Lee in 1911
and annually elects a limited number of students of outstanding
character and superior academic records. ‘The students elected to
Phi Beta Kappa are as follows:

Seniors: Mary Beth Anstine (Camp Hill, Pa.); Wangdali C.
Bacdayan (Natchitoches, La.); Armando F. Benincasa (Lexing-

ton, Va.); Sarah Elizabeth Briggs (Maryville, Tenn.); John
Thomas Cox (Shreveport, La.); Charles C. Edwards (Baltimore);
Jennifer Lyn Fischer (Stafford, Va.); Seamane Suzanne Flanagan
(Townsend, ‘Tenn.); Kristin Lee Greenough (Holmdel, N.J.);
Charles Harry Haake (San Marino, Calif.); Cindy Lu DeForest
Heffern (Lexington, Va.); Jodi Lynn Herring (Boone, N.C.); T.
Paul Hildebrand (Newport News, Va.); Elizabeth Whitney
Hopkins (Severna Park, Md.); James Daniel Light (Glasgow,
Va.); Kevin D. Morrison (Bellwood, IIl.); Jennifer Diane Noble
(Richardson, ‘Texas); David S. Phillips (Alpharetta, Ga.); Carol
Elizabeth Steele (Indianapolis, Ind.); Heather Alya Turner
(Roanoke, Va.); Erika Jennifer Volkerding (Los Angeles).

Juniors: Todd G. Ammerman (Roanoke, Va.); Brian K.
Butcher (Newport News, Va.); Andrea Margaret Cardamone
(Gladwyne, Pa.); Jennifer Marie Carr (New Philadelphia, Ohio);
Evans G. Edwards (Roanoke, Va.); Ramona Michelle Franks
(Chattanooga, Tenn.); Mary Jo Geyer (Baltimore); William N.
Hannah Jr. (Decatur, Ga.); Stewart M. Long (Atlanta); Belinda
Robyn McCord (Houston); Patricia Lee Perdigon (Tampa, Fla.).

1991 Graduates: Lisa Kei Frantz (Alexandria, Va.) and
Mitchell N. ‘Terrill (Columbia, S.C.).

 

 

 

Latture (center) was surrounded by many W&L friends on the occasion of his 100th birthday.

Latture, beloved alumnus, turns 100

upert N. Latture, ’15,
Pp one of Washington and

Lee’s most beloved
alumni and former member of
the faculty and administration,
celebrated his 100th birthday
on Jan. 18. Latture was joined
by W&L friends and family at
a party at the Maryfield Home
in High Point, N.C.

Resolutions were pre-

sented to Latture by the Lex-
ington Presbyterian Church

Ss

and by the Greensboro Alumni
Chapter. W&L’s elder states-
man was presented with a
large birthday cake, courtesy
the University Dining Service.
‘The cake was decorated with
the Colonnade on top.

Latture returned to W&L
five years after his graduation
and served the University in
one capacity or another for the
next seven decades. He began
in 1920 by teaching French,

4

b

and then politics, until 1962.
During his “retirement,”
Latture worked as a special
assistant to two presidents,
Dr. Fred C. Cole and Robert
E.R. Huntley. He retired
again in 1983.

Latture, who organized
Omicron Delta Kappa with 11
other students in 1914, is the
last surviving founder of the
national honorary leadership
society. In 1990, ODK be-
stowed its highest honor, the
Laurel Crowned Circle Award,
on Latture.

“e THE GAZETT E/ PAGE 31 ~

Tuition increases

6.5% for ’92-’93

ashington and Lee
University’s tuition
will be $12,330 for

undergraduates and $12,830
for law students in the 1992-
93 academic year.

The University’s Board of
‘Trustees established the tui-
tion figure along with new
room and board rates during
its annual winter meeting
held in February.

“We aren’t faced with the
same dramatic reductions the
public institutions have had,
but we tried to be responsible,
given the economic conditions
everyone is facing,” said
Lawrence W. Broomall,
University treasurer.

The new tuition repre-
sents an increase of six-and-
one-half above the 1991-92
figure of $11,575 for under-
graduates and $12,050 for law
students. Room rates will
range from $1,500-2,350, with
a full board costing $2,400.

The trustees also adopted
a 14 percent increase in the
University’s undergraduate
financial aid package and a 7.5
percent increase in the law
package.

 

 

 

ae

ie on cok cs ee at eh

wa
~<

— a ted : vt

4 ee i. » om <* ee
et i fn oe > >=Ne =
“4 ra se ty cs ‘
SP OVI Seen SRY: eae

Paes _ Lf >
wet - - yp
ha. a3 ee dt 4 a

a —s ~ . ~

— an ° ~ * > -
Ses ad Se ae: fe Ke A Ss iin. Coe ee Pe coe

 

mis.

 

The 1991-92 edition of Southern Comfort has produced a cassette of favorite songs. The tape can be purchased through the alumni office by
calling Associate Alumni Director Rob Mish at (703) 463-8464. The tape includes many popular arrangements, as well as The W&L Swing.
Pictured above are (front row, left to right) Chris Cox, Jonathan Hanger, Jeff Zieger, Philip Spears, Andrew Keller, and Greg Heinrichs; and
(back row) Bobby Stallard, Mason Alley, Fred Wood, Louis Perkins, Kevin Lydon, and Roger Sullivan.

Economy takes its toll on W&L job-seekers; 17% ‘still seeking employment’

 

he report from Washington and Lee’s Career Development
and Placement Office for the class of "91 comes as little
surprise to many of the members of the recently graduated
class: It is a tough time to find a job.

As of December, nearly 17 percent of the class of ’91
reported themselves as still seeking employment. ‘That figure is
nearly double that of the class of ’90, and it represents by far the
highest percentage in that category in the last four years.

N. Rick Heatley, director of placement at W&L since 1987,
points to the less-than-thriving economy as the main culprit.

“The placement of the class of 1991 was a disappointment,
but it was clearly a reflection of the tragedy of the bottom falling
out of the national economy in the middle of the academic year,”
he said. “Students were able to recover partially, but many of
them did not have time to adjust to the changing times before
the summer.”

‘The breakdown of the 414-member class of ’91 shows that
40 percent were employed in business, government, or industry,
24 percent went on to graduate study, seven percent were
serving in temporary positions, and one percent were employed
with the military.

Of those employed, education was the most prominent field
with five percent of the class finding work there. Other top areas

 

“¢ PAGE 32/ THE

were accounting, sales, government and politics, and invest-
ments, all with at least three percent of the class.

‘Things for the class of 1992 are looking better, Heatley said,
reporting a very strong fall recruitment and an impressive list of
companies signed up for the winter term.

“For the W&L student who makes the proper career
preparations, the opportunities will be there,” he said. “That’s
not to say that looking for a job is going to be easy, but I’m sure
our students are going to do very well.”

Heatley proposes “new tactics for difficult times.” He said
the CD&P office will step up its efforts and will encourage
students to make “more assertive, persistent individual efforts
with targeted locations and companies.” Heatley also pointed to
the Alumni Career Assistance Program as particularly crucial
during these tough economic times.

“ACAP serves the University and its students very well,” he
explained. “Ideally, we would like to get all of our alumni to
contact our office when they have an opening or to keep W&L
in mind when they go recruiting. I think alumni will be pleased
with the students’ response to these timely opportunities.”

For more information on the career development and
placement office at W&L, contact Heatley at (703) 463-8595.

 

 

GAZETTE @

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Machado (center) rallies his troops during a break against Davidson.

New game in town: women’s hoops

winter. The Washington and Lee women’s basketball
club team completed its first season under the gui-
dance of history professor Barry Machado and campus micro-
computer coordinator Earl Edwards, ’69.

A new team hit the hardwoods of the Warner Center this

 

 

Machado, a standout in his college days at Dartmouth, and
Edwards, a key contributor on the W&L teams that posted three
consecutive winning seasons and won one state and two con-
ference titles, both were impressed with the progress and dedi-
cation the young squad demonstrated throughout the season.

Machado was asked to coach the team by sophomores Nicki
Mayfield and Sarah Butler, and after getting Edwards to serve as
his assistant, Machado became the first women’s basketball
coach in school history.

“| didn’t know what to expect,” said Machado, who previ-
ously had coached the Lexington High School junior varsity
squad. “I flew by the seat of my pants. I had to scramble to get
games, and we tried to put in basic, simplified offenses and
defenses.”

The team, led by sophomore standout Karen Stutzmann, won
four of its seven games, including two wins against Sweet Briar.
But wins and losses weren’t what Machado was looking for.

“My measure of whether we were successful was that the
girls would have a greater affection for the game of basketball at
the end of the season than they did at the start,” he said. “And I
think they all did.”

Another thing Machado and Edwards did during the course
of the season was lay the groundwork for bigger things.

“My hope is that next year we’ll be a developmental varsity
team,” Machado said. “That would ease the difficulty in getting
games. Nobody wants to play a club team. I think a 12- to 14-
game schedule of teams that are on par with us is the idea. I'd
like to coach one more year with Earl, and then step aside and let
somebody who can recruit take over. I was very happy to get the
ball rolling and the momentum shouldn’t be allowed to dissipate.”

‘The enthusiasm on the women’s club team was strong all
year. The team frequently practiced in the evening, but still man-
aged to have near-perfect attendance. Players even gave up part
of their Washington break to travel to play a game at Davidson.
And their home games drew supportive crowds, including one
particularly interested fan, W&L director of athletics Mike Walsh.

“The commitment and effort demonstrated from the
women’s basketball club team was very strong,” Walsh said.
“The athletic department will be giving every consideration to
elevating their status.”

Vitale speaks on simple values, mom and dad, at W&L gym

oted ESPN and ABC basketball
N analyst Dick Vitale entertained

W&L’s largest basketball crowd
of the season with his zest for life in a
January speech at the Warner Center.

Vitale, who spoke as part of the

Contact lecture series, gave a 50-minute,
post-game monologue on basketball and
life. He spent the afternoon and evening
in Lexington, autographing his latest
book, entertaining the crowd with a free-
throw shooting exhibition, and tossing out
free copies of his book “Time Out,
Baby!” to the crowd at halftime. He also
said he was impressed by W&L and the
Division III philosophy.

“They’re out here for the love of the
uniform and the love of the school,”
Vitale said. “They don’t have a lot of size
or bulk, but they’ve got heart, baby!”

Vitale, who during a seven-year
stretch in the 1970s went from teaching care,’” Vitale shouted to the crowd.
sixth grade and coaching high school
basketball in New Jersey to becoming
head coach of the Detroit Pistons, said his
life as a 'V commentator is even better
than his overnight success as a coach. He
had a quick answer to those wondering
about any future coaching plans.

“T tell them, ‘Hey, baby, who else can
coach Indiana on a Tuesday, North Caro-
lina on a Thursday and Kentucky on a

Saturday?’ I get to coach every night and I
haven’t lost a game in 13 years.”

He stressed hard work and respect
and love for parents and guardians as keys
to success. “Learn to say ‘I love you’ and ‘I

999
“Don’t ever forget to tell your parents
you love them and respect them.”

Vitale stressed that hard work, a little
luck and a lot of love can make your
dreams come true, and he pointed to
himself as a perfect example. “Only in
America can a guy who can’t read, who
can’t write and who can’t talk right reach
where I have,” he said. “It’s been an
absolute, absolute fantasy.”

 

citi 1 © THE GAZETTE/ PAGE33

 

 

 

 

 

Bauer called best of the best
at Hall of Fame induction

ormer Washington
and Lee lacrosse coach

Jack Emmer praised
‘Theodore W. “Ted” Bauer,
74, as the key to W&L’s
most successful lacrosse teams
in history during induction
ceremonies for the Lacrosse
Hall of Fame in February.

Bauer is the first W&L
player to be selected to the
Lacrosse Hall of Fame. He
was inducted as “a truly great
player who has contributed
noteworthy service to the game
of lacrosse over the years.”

Bauer was a three-time
All-American at W&L, played

in the North-South Collegiate
All-Star game, and was selec-
ted to the U.S. team for the
1974 World Lacrosse Champ-
ionships. He also was a three-
time selection to the Club All-
Star team for the Chesapeake
Lacrosse Club.

Since 1983, Bauer has been
on the All-America Selection
Committee, serving as chair-
man since 1985.

Emmer called Bauer a key
to W&L’s 50-7 record during
his four-year career.

“The greatest lacrosse
team at Washington and Lee
was the 1974 team, and it had

A at rus

~e 4\ l] a
oc 210 ?
ol Fon,

 

Emmer (left) congratulates Bauer on his election to Hall of Fame.

‘Ted Bauer at the helm,”
Emmer said. “No one ever
disputed his leadership on the
field. When the game was
close, you could hear the whis-
pers in the stands, “Give ‘Teddy

the ball.” We did and we won.

“Of that whole decade
when Washington and Lee was
perceived as a David slaying
many Goliaths, the best of the
best was Teddy Bauer.”

 

 

‘The Bookshelf

Sweet Lucy Wine

BY DABNEY STUART
S. Blount Mason Professor of English

(Louisiana State University Press)

Long established as a poet, Stuart unveils his measurable
talents as an author of short stories in this collection that focuses
on the life of a boy in a small Southern town. That boy, Mark
Random, is initiated to the complexities and contradictions of
life through his interactions with his family, his friends, and
Sweet Lucy Wine, the interesting woman who lives with his
family for a time.

Shelby Hearon writes of Stuart’s first collection of short
stories, “Dabney Stuart has crafted a crackerjack collection of
homespun stories about a boy with the ordinary desires of
revenge and escape—forced to be his brother’s keeper by adults
whose voices could pick your peaches or open a safe without the
combination—coming of age in those moments when he focuses
on what he has never seen quite so clearly before.”

Stuart, editor of Shenandoah (Washington and Lee’s literary
review), has twice received National Endowment for the Arts
fellowships, as well as a Guggenheim Fellowship. He is the
author of eight books of poetry, including Common Ground, Don’t
Look Back, and Narcissus Dreaming.

Richard Burgin says the same qualities of Stuart the poet are
there in Stuart the short-story writer.

“The strengths of Dabney Stuart’s writing—its lively, vivid
prose, its subtle humor and wisdom—shine forth in Sweet Lucy
Wine. Stuart creates a firm sense of a real world that always
includes laughter—things all too rare in contemporary fiction.
They make this book moving, delightful, and very funny. Sweer
Lucy Wine is intoxicating.”

Doomed at the Start: American Pursuit
Pilots in the Philippines, 1941-42

BY WILLIAM H. BARTSCH, ’55
(Texas A&M University Press)

On the 50th anniversary of Pearl Harbor, the nation
remembered the tragic loss of men, planes, and ships in
Hawaii. Less remembered was what has sometimes
been called “the other Pearl Harbor.”

William H. Bartsch has written a dramatic chronicle
of “the other Pearl Harbor” and its aftermath. He focuses
on the 24th Pursuit Group—the only unit of intercep-
tor aircraft in the Philippines. It was virtually destroyed
during the first hours of the war, yet the men continued
to fight for five months. Bartsch, now a senior economist
for the International Labor Office in Geneva, Switzer-
land, has written the first complete account of how and
why the 24th Pursuit Group, using the same planes as
the famous Flying ‘Tigers, failed to deter the Japanese.

Bartsch thoroughly researched newly discovered
Japanese and American documents. He also spent many
years corresponding with and interviewing survivors of
the action, and their ground-zero perspective of the war
is reflected in the book. ‘The men’s stories form the
big picture of what happened in the Philippines, from
the initial attack on Dec. 8, 1941, to the fall of Bataan
and Corregidor in the spring of 1942. One reader has
compared Bartsch’s work to John Toland’s classic /nfamy:
Pearl Harbor and Its Aftermath.

Bartsch earned his master’s degree at the University
of Virginia and his doctorate from the University of
London School of Oriental and African Studies.

 

 

 

@ PAGE 34/ THE GAZETTE ©

 

 

 

 

 

 

LAW NEWS

 

Law placement steady for W&L grads; office ‘modestly optimistic’

he stumbling national

economy and its effect

on many large law firms
in the northeast hasn’t been
felt too badly by Washington
and Lee’s law graduates, ac-
cording to W&L School of
Law Director of Placement
Sandra L. Philipps.

Philipps said she remains
“modestly optimistic” about
the future, and indicated the
Class of ’91 did very well in its
placement efforts. She said 93
percent of last year’s class re-
ported employment, while
noting that 95 percent of the
Class of ’92 reported law re-
lated summer jobs last year.
Those numbers are astound-

Cede aad.“ ser oe

rey

7
=
7 ay

ele
—- a

ing when some law schools
have barely two-thirds of their
graduates placed from last year.

A balanced, flexible
approach to the market has
helped W&L law graduates,
Philipps said.

“Part of it is that we’ve
never really encouraged stu-
dents to rely on big firms in
the northeast,” she said.
“We've encouraged our stu-
dents to always have a back-
up. The market has remained
fairly steady in the smaller
cities and the smaller firms.”

With the legal profession
coming off nearly five years of
frenzied hiring, Philipps said
the decline in hiring in the last

1 The

 

 

Privacy-locker room question reviewed

64 eople talk about the locker room like it’s such a great
place to be. I don’t want to get in the locker room. It
just that the locker room happens to be where the
athletes are and I need the athletes to do my job. It’s not access
to the locker room, it is access to the athlete that I want.”

So stated ESPN anchorwoman and reporter Robin Roberts
on the hot topic in sports journalism today: women in the locker
room. Roberts was part of a panel that discussed the question of
privacy and the press at a forum in the Moot Court Room at the
Washington and Lee School of Law. The discussion was pre-
sented by the Sports & Entertainment Law Society, the Women’s
Law Students Organization, and the Media Law Group.

The privacy-press clash has been fueled by recent National
Football League controversies with Boston Globe reporter Lisa

Olson and the New England Patriots and in Cincinnati with

 

 

@ THE GAZETTE/PAGE35

year is simply adjustment
back to normal.

“| think this really is a
time of transition in law
hiring,” she said. “The hiring
level in the late 80s was an
aberration. We’re seeing a bit
of a slow down now, but I
think it’s generally the case
that there are around 30,000
law graduates each year and
generally about 30,000 jobs
available each year, too.”

An ace in the hole for
many W&L grads, Philipps
said, is the place they got their
degree. The W&L name is
respected nationally.

“The school’s name is
known, and the reputation is

very high,” Philipps said,
indicating that she provides
students with a pamphlet
detailing the W&L reputation
that can be included with
resumes. She also pointed to
W&L’s phenomenal number
of judicial clerkships (23 per-
cent of the class last year),
which is nearly twice the
national average.

Philipps said she sees
things improving for law
graduates as the economy
improves.

“We’re about where we were
last year,” she said. “So far,
we've stayed steady as far as
recruiting goes. We’re hoping
to see things pick up.”

Bengals’ former coach Sam Wyche and reporter Denise Thom.

Moderated by law professor David Caudill, the panel also
included First Amendment scholar and dean of the school of law
Randall Bezanson, former Cleveland Browns head coach and
current Liberty University head coach Sam Rutigliano, and Mo
Eliwonibi, a current player for the Washington Redskins.

‘The panelists concluded that much has been done to
alleviate the inherent difficulties of the locker room situation,
including mandatory cooling-off periods, the establishment of
post-game interview rooms, and even the purchasing of team
robes for the locker room. Still, Roberts and others agreed that
the process of interviewing athletes and coaches in the dressing
room remains a necessary inconvenience of the profession.

“The locker room really is not set up to have interviews,”
Roberts said. “But I think as long as you have the industry,
you re going to have the problem.”

Rutigliano said most of the problems are caused by the

emotion of the moment.

“I think a woman has every right to access to the locker room,
and she needs to be there to do her job,” he said. “The issue
itself is not the problem. What you have to plug into is the emo-
tion of the moment. I think coaches need to work toward pre-
venting bad situations from happening.”

Eliwonibi said the strain of a difficult game, especially a loss,
can lead to problems in locker room interviews. But, he said,
players have a responsibility to the public.

“The problems come at the losing end most of the time,” he
said. “But I think being in this business, you don’t get what you
have without the fans and the media, so I think you have to do
what you can to accommodate them. It’s just that sometimes you

don’t want to be a part of it.”

 

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI

NEWS

 

Celebrating Lee
and Washington

he annual arrival of

Jan. 19 means the

annual arrival of many
chapter events, honoring the
birthday of Robert E. Lee,
and this year many chapters
took advantage of the oppor-
tunity to hold dinners, parties,
and receptions to honor the
most revered of Washington
and Lee’s presidents.

At least 24 different chap-
ters held events celebrating
the 185th anniversary of Lee’s
birth. ‘The events featured
many different W&L guests,
as well.

In Jacksonville, Fla., the
chapter welcomed Dr. Sidney
M.B. Coulling, ’46, professor
of English emeritus, and his
wife, author Mary Coulling,
for a question-and-answer
session at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. Ellis Crosby, °54.

The Louisville chapter
celebrated with special guests
A. Stevens Miles, °51, rector of
the Board of ‘Trustees, and
Dean of Admissions William
M. Hartog. Assistant Director
of Development James Jordan
was a special guest at the Mid-
South chapter’s celebration at
the home of Penn Owen III,
81, in Memphis.

Associate Dean of Students
Buddy Atkins and wife, Evan,
assistant director of the news
office, were guests at the ‘Tide-
water chaper’s party in Norfolk,
Va., while Lex McMillan, ’72,
executive director of develop-
ment, was a special guest at
the Atlanta party at the home
of Eileen and Bo DuBose, 62.

‘The Middle Tennessee
Lee event featured Larry C.
Peppers, dean of the Com-
merce School and.his wife,
Fran, while Randall P. Bezan-
son, dean of the School of

oT ee
a

au

“
a

we by u

‘ x

* Ws:
te we

ha rh. 44
i oee ey ay
um :
m

i.

- ed

— i a

 

 

From top: LOUISVILLE—From left, George Gans, ’61, Harry Wall, ’75, and Barry Barlow, ’77, toasted
Gen. Lee at his birthday celebration at the River Valley Club; DELMARVA—From left, Stewart Barroll,
76, Alex Rasin, ’65, and Assistant Alumni Director Rob Mish pause for a photo at the Lee party and

Southern Comfort concert at the Tidewater Inn.

Law, was the ‘T’ri-State
chapter’s guest in Hunting-
ton, W.Va. ‘The Keystone
chapter welcomed Professor
of Journalism Robert J. de
Maria and Chris Baradel, ’91,
alumni office staff associate to
its party in January.

A Lee and Washington
birthday gathering was held

“+ PAGE 36/ THE

 

by the Winston-Salem chapter
at the home of Gina and John
Cocklereece. Attending were
a number of special Univer-
sity guests, including Farris P.
Hotchkiss, 58, vice president
for university relations, and
his wife, Judy, and two mem-
bers of the steering commit-
tee for the 1992 W&L Mock

GAZETTE ¢@

Democratic Convention, John
P. Donaldson, ’92, and John S.
Darden, ’93.

A special inaugural Lee
celebration occurred across
the Atlantic Ocean as W&L
alumni gathered at the Lon-
don flat of Lisa and Chip
Skinner, ’84. ‘The Lee event
was the first conducted by the

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI

 

 

Clockwise from top: PUGET SOUND—Gathered with President Wilson (far right) are (from left) Robin Corwin, Bobby Matthews, 87,

 

 

NEWS

 

 

Chapter Co-President Alan Corwin, '62, Chapter Co-President Chappy Conrad, ’73, and Marjolyn Conrad. AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM—
Gathered for a December party are (from left) Marie Thomas, Steuart Thomas, ’86L, Wick Vellines, ’68, ’73L, and Betty Vellines. ROANOKE —
Dean of the Commerce School Larry Peppers (far left) spoke at a chapter meeting in February. Gathered with him for a photograph are Paul
Black, ’82, Bill Lemon, ’55, ’59L, Stephen Lemon, ’84, and Chapter President Eddie Smith, 85.

recently established United
Kingdom chapter.

Other chapters holding
Lee celebrations included
New Orleans; Palmetto (at the
home of H. Bowen Woodruff,
83, in Columbia, S.C.);
Charleston, W.Va. (at the
home of Virginia and Edward
W. Rugeley Jr., ’53, °55L);

i

Florida West Coast (at the
home of Lee and ‘Tom

‘Touchton, ’60, in Tampa);

Peninsula; Rockbridge;
Richmond; Orange County;
and ‘Tucson (at the home of
Dee and Ron Sommer, ’66L).

Special recognition

Three chapters received
special awards, and each chose
their Lee celebration as the
time to receive those awards.
‘The Houston chapter won the
Large Chapter of the Year
Award, and President John D.
Wilson and James D. Farrar

¢ THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 37

Jr., °74, director of alumni
programs, were on hand to
present the award.

The San Diego chapter
received the Small Chapter of
the Year Award, and Wilson
and Farrar again were on hand
to present the honor. Finally,
Wilson and Farrar presented
the Puget Sound chapter with

 

 

 

NEWS

ALUMNI

 

 

 

Clockwise from top left: UNITED KINGDOM—From left, John Laney, 91, Tom Goss, ’80, Jack Wells, ’82, Kent Suttle, 90, and Cristina Robinson,
"91, meet at first event. SAN DIEGO—President Wilson presents Small Chapter of the Year Award to former chapter president Jet Taylor, ’84, (left)
and current chapter president Rufus Young, 62. PALMETTO—Cooper Crawford, ’87, Will Harbison, ’87,’90L, Walker McKay, ’87, and Christian
Blessey, 88, pose at a party. HOUSTON—President Wilson and Charlie McCord, ’63, (left) present Large Chapter of the Year Award to chapter

 

president Bill Clemmons, ’77, (center). BLUE RIDGE—President Wilson chats with Rob Vaughan, 66, (center) and Rich Richmond, ’66.

the Alumni Board’s Special
Recognition Award for Leader-
ship and Achievement. ‘The
presentation was part of the
festivites held at the home of
Dr. and Mrs. Ernest (Chappy)
Conrad.

W&L singers

Washington and Lee
choral groups Southern Com-
fort and JubiLee kept a num-
ber of chapters warm during
winter evenings with their

 

PAGE 38/ THE.

special brand of entertain-
ment. The two groups per-
formed at selected chapters
and Southern Comfort made a
tour of the Northeast during
W&L’s February break.
JubiLee gave a concert for

GAZETTE

the Augusta-Rockingham
chapters in Staunton in
January, while Southern
Comfort entertained at Lee
birthday celebrations by the
Delmarva chapter in Easton,
Md., the Baltimore chapter,

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI

 

 
 

_ |

 

  

7 NSH * TOs oe
hf es A ed

Top: HALL OF FAME—WS8°L lacrosse team heroes (from left) Chip
Tompkins, ’73, Don Carroll, ’76, Sam Englehart, ’73, Jack Emmer,
and Bryan Chasney, ’74, gathered to honor teammate Ted Bauer, ’74,
on his induction. Bottom: ST. LOUIS—Gathered to cheer on the W&L
basketball team at the Lopata Classic at Washington University in
St. Louis were, from left, John Samet, ’64, Athletic Director Mike
Walsh, John Turman, ’69, Mike Truta, ’71, and Hugh Newton, ’52.

which held its event at the
home of Beth and Barton
Mitchell, ’62, in Stevenson,
Md., and the Blue Ridge
chapter. Pres. Wilson and
Robert W.H. Mish III, ’76,
assistant alumni director,
accompanied Southern
Comfort to the events.
Southern Comfort’s tour
through the Northeast saw
them give performances for
chapters in Delaware (Wil-
mington), Northern New

Jersey (Madison), New York,
New England (Boston),
Connceticut River Valley
(Hartford), Long Island, and
Philadelphia. ‘The Alumni
Office’s Mish and Baradel

escorted the group on its tour.

Virginia Parties
A number of chapters
held cocktail parties for area

graduates of Virginia colleges
and universities. ‘The Chi-

# THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 39

cago chapter held an Old
Dominion Holiday Party, the
Miami chapter held a Virginia
is for Lovers ExSHAGaganza
at Don Shula’s Golf Resort,
and the Palmetto chapter held
Commonwealth Day VIII, a
barbecue, dance and raffle in
Columbia.

Celebrating W&L

There were many other
W&L chapter cocktail parties
held during the winter months,
as well. ‘The New England
chapter held a cocktail party
in December, while the
Northern Louisiana chapter
held a Christmas party at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
H. Murphy.’77, in Shreveport.
‘The Lynchburg chapter held a
Christmas party at the home of
Melanie and Lynch Christian,
‘76L, and W&L guests in-
cluded Farrar, Bezanson, Dean
of the College John W. Elrod,
and William W. Paxton,’80,
assistant director of develop-
ment. The Baltimore chapter
held a Chase the Winter Blues
Away party at the Mt.
Washington Tavern, which is
owned by Ted Bauer, ’74.

NEWS

i

The W&L Speakers

Bureau

A number of luncheons
were held featuring W&L
speakers this winter. ‘The
Atlanta chapter welcomed
Arthur H. Goldsmith,
associate professor of
Economics, to a luncheon in
December.

Dean Bezanson of the law
school spoke on the state of
the University at a luncheon
sponsored by the Dallas
chapter, while Dean Peppers
of the commerce school was
the featured speaker at a
Roanoke chaper luncheon.
Farrar was also a guest at the
Roanoke luncheon.

‘The New York chapter
held a reception to honor Alex
Jones, ’68, and his wife Susan
‘Tifft, authors of a recent book
on the Bingham family of
Kentucky.

 

 

 

ALUMNI NEWS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Stafford

NOMINATING COMMITTEE APPOINTED

Each year a three-member nominating committee is empaneled to fill vacant seats on the
Alumni Board of Directors and to elect an alumni representative to the University Committee on
Intercollegiate Athletics.

Under Article 9 of the By-Laws of the Washington and Lee Alumni Inc., the names and ad-
dresses of the members of the Nominating Committee must be published. ‘The By-Laws stipulate
that any members of the Alumni Association may submit names of alumni to the Nominating Com-
mittee for nomination to the offices to be filled.

The Nominating Committee is now receiving the names of candidates to fill five seats on the
Alumni Board of Directors and the vacancy on the University Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

Alumni may send names directly to any members of the committee or to the committee through
the office of the Executive Secretary of the Alumni Association at the University.

Members of this year’s committee and
their addresses are listed below:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Donald B. McFall, ’64, ’69L John W. Robinson IV, ’72 John P. Stafford, ’79
Managing Partner Attorney/Partner Asst. to President
McFall & Sartwelle Fowler, White, Gillen, et al Kerr Engineered Sales Co.
2500 ‘T'wo Houston Center 501 E. Kenney Blvd. 5940 Baum Square
909 Franin St. P.O. Box 1438 Pittsburgh, PA 15206
Houston, TX 77010 ‘Tampa, FL 33602 (412) 362-6553
(713) 951-1000 (813) 228-7411

@ PAGE 40/THE GAZETTE @

 

 

 

 

9
ADOLPH S.

MARX is in good health
and living in Lake
Charles, La.

VIRGIL J. TROTTER
JR.is retired and living in
Monticello, Ark. He is 94 years old.

9
THE REV. JUDSON B. HOLLO-
WAY recently celebrated his 94th birthday.

He lives in Hamilton, Ohio.

9 4
FRANCIS W. PLOWMAN is re-

tired and living in Haverford, Pa.

20)
DR. CALVIN 'T. BURTON, who

was born in 1901, shot one stroke under his age
during a round of golf in May 1991. Burton
lives in Irvington, Va.

FRANK T. (PETE) MITCHELL has recov-
ered from a broken hip, which he suffered in
December 1990. He lives in Naples, Fla.

af
S. BRIGGS LAWSON recently

was the featured speaker at the Shelby County
(Ky.) Historical Society. He spoke about Civil
Warancestors. Lawson, a retired businessman,
elderemeritus of the First Presbyterian Church
and board member emeritus of the Kentucky
Easter Seal Society, lives in Shelbyville, Ky.,
with his wife, Mary.

DR. BURCHARDS. PRUETT is retired and

living in St. Louis, Mo.

28
ROGER J. HALLER hasa daugh-

ter, granddaughter, and three great-grandchil-
dren who all live in Buena Vista, Va. Haller
lives in Waynesboro, Va.

JOSEPH J. KAPLAN, senior member of the
Louisville, Ky., law firm of Washer, Kaplan,
Rothschild, Aberson & Miller, is the oldest of
five brothers, all graduates of W&L.

30
VIRGIL C. JONES was the sur-

prise honoree at a celebration on Dec. 6, 1991,
marking the anniversary of the birth of the
“Gray Ghost,” Confederate Army Col. John S.
Mosby. Jones wrote Ranger Mosby, a 1944
bestseller that chronicled the exploits of
Mosby’s band of Partisan Rangers behind

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI

CLASS NOTES

Union lines during the Civil War. Jones, who
has written nine books, was honored at a celebra-
tion in Edgemont, Va., Mosby’s birthplace.

EDWARD F. PILLEY is retired and living in
Lubbock, ‘Texas.

GILBERT V. ROSENBERG has moved to
Leisure World, in Silver Spring, Md. His place
has a view of the golf course.

‘31
GEORGE JUNKIN is retired and

living in Arlington, Va.

TALCOTT C. LANCASTER lives in
Parkersburg, W.Va.

A. BERNARD LEVIN is retired and living in
Palm Beach, Fla.

STANLEY D. WAXBERG is special counsel
to the New York law firm of Kaye, Scholer,
Fierman, Hays & Handler.

HAROLD M. WESTON is an arbitrator of
labor disputes in the telephone, railroad, and
manufacturing industries. He lives in Hastings
on the Hudson, N.Y.

oe
JOHN D. CLOTHIER JR. re-

cently finished a three-year term on his local
APVA chapter. He lives in Williamsburg, Va.

J. BERNARD SPECTOR lives in Miami
Beach, Fla. He reports that he is trying in vain
to shoot his age in golf.

Law: THE HON. HENRY W. MACKENZIE
JR. works part time in Portsmouth, Va.

Law: GILBERT ROSENBERG (see °30).

yn
DR. ALVIN B. ORTNER servesas

vice president and surgical consultant for
Healthcare Review Corp. He makes his home
in Louisville, Ky.

SIMON M. (CY) PAINTER recently reno-
vated his real estate office and added anew
associate. He lives in Staunton, Va.

EDWARD H. PRINGLE is retired and living
in Haddenfield, N.J.

34 DR. NOR-

WOOD E. BAND is an
educational specialist in
West Atlantic City, N.J.

HOLMES M. DYER re-

ports that he is playing
tennis and sailing almost daily. He spends his
summers in Marion, Mass., and the rest of the
time in Sarasota, Fla.

HENRY L. KING JR. is retired and living in
Hot Springs, Va.

SCOTT MOSOVICH has been the class agent
for the class of 1934 for the last 22 years.

DR. GEORGE W. PEDIGO JR. is an emeri-
tus professor of medicine at the University of
Louisville. He serves on the board of overseers
of the University of Louisville.

EDWIN H. PEWETT is retired and living in
Chevy Chase, Md. He reports that he plays
golf occasionally with his three grandsons.
Pewett and one of his grandsons each notched
a hole-in-one recently.

JOHN F.SHRODER and his wife, Ruth, split
time in their retirement between Naples, Fla.,
and their summer home in Vermont.

Law: SIMON M. PAINTER (see ’33).

a
GEORGE E. CRISP is treasurer of

St. Luke’s Episcopal Church. In his retire-
ment, he enjoys golf, sailing, and traveling.
Crisp lives in Akron, Ohio.

JOHN E. FRIEND is retired and living in
Washington, N.C. He plays golf regularly and
is concentrating on shooting his age (78).

DR. SIDNEY LYONS is retired and living in
Arlington, Va., with his wife, Josephine.

N. JOE RAHALL reports that he is “ninety
percent” retired. He lives in Beckley, W. Va.

GEORGE E. SHORT is retired and living in
Pompton Lakes, N.J. He plays golfand bridge,
and does various jobs for his church.

36
WILLIAM M. ALLEN, a retired

engineer, has invented a small indoor green-
house for starting seedlings ina bright window.
‘The device is sold by the Park Seeds Co. under
the name “Lighthouse.”

ROBERT F.CORRIGAN is doing consulting
work in Washington, D.C. He makes his home
in Chevy Chase, Md.

W&L ALUMNIN MAGAZINE 41

LEONARD LEIGHT is enjoying his retire-
ment in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He travels
and reads for pleasure.

37
STANLEY BARROWS was a

speaker at the opening of the San Francisco
Fall Antique Show on Oct. 30, 1991. He spoke
on design themes in England, France, Italy,
and America in the 18th and early 19th cen-
turies. He also was a moderator for a panel
discussion on the use of antiques in present
day design. He makes his home in New York
City.

ROBERT P. KINGSBURY retired as chief
financial officer and director of Weimer Steel
Corp. and South Pacific Steel and Metal Corp.
on Dec. 31. He makes his home in Los
Angeles.

ALEXANDER McINTOSH and his wife,
Glenna, decided to spend this winter watch-
ing the snow fall in their home of North
Branford, Conn. For the past 28 years, the
couple had gone to Florida for the winter.

RICHARD E. SIMON is retired and living in
Highland Park, Ill. He is also active in the
Chicago chapter of Service Corps of Retired
Executives, a volunteer arm of the Small
Business Administration. SCORE members
advise business managers and help people
starting new businesses.

THE HON ARTHUR W. SINCLAIR has
been sitting as a justice on various circuit
courts across Virginia on an “as needed basis.”

Assignments for Sinclair, who retired from the
bench in 1980, after 30 years of service are
designated by the Virginia State Supreme
Court.

LEWIS D. WILLIAMS is chairman of the
LPGA Futures Golf ‘Tour. The Futures Tour
supplies 80 percent of the players on the
Ladies Professional Golf Association tour.

38
CMDR. WILLIAM B. BAGBEY

is recovering from triple-bypass surgery in
August 1991. He was just elected to the Na-
tional English-Speaking Union board.

C. PRICE BERRYMAN is retired and living
in Coffeyville, Kan.

CHARLES F. CLARKE JR. is practicing law
with the firm of Squire, Sanders & Dempsey
in Cleveland.

GILBERT S. MEEM, who has Parkinson’s
Disease, plays golf and swims regularly.

DR. ALBERT A. POLLACK isa physician in
New York City.

E. AL'TON SARTOR JR. works for Giddens-
Lane Co. Inc., a real estate company in
Shreveport, La. In the last 18 months, he and
his wife, Jean, have celebrated their 50th anni-
versary and traveled to Kenya and Alaska.

ALPHONSE J. SHERMAN is retired and
living in Bridgeport, Conn. He spends his time
fishing and playing racquetball.

Law: LEONARD LEIGHT (see °36).

39
W. ARTHUR BEETON enjoyed

attending the W&L Alumni College during
the summer.

ROGERS M. COX was recently profiled in
The Helmet News. Cox, a long-time resident of
San Jacinto, Calif., was commended for the
active role he played in establishing many of
San Jacinto’s municipal programs and com-
munity events. He was the first certified pub-
lic accountant in the area, and he still serves as
his accounting firm’s administrator. He is also
treasurer of the Eastern Municipal Water Dis-
trict.

JAMES S. DUDLEY JR. recently completed
a term as chairman of the board of Bluefield
College. He lives in Atlanta.

GEORGE C. KERR and his wife, Florence,
are enjoying the retired life in the Amish
country of Pennsylvania. They golf, bowl, and
travel, and each winter they spend two months
visiting friends in Hilton Head Island, S.C.

RODNEY L. ODELL is retired from his
work as a newspaper editor and now is splitting
time between the Florida and New Jersey
shores. He does a great deal of traveling and
sailing.

HERBERT C. (SIG) SIGVARTSEN is re-
tired and living in Palm Harbor, Fla.

40
DR. FRANK S. BEAZLIE JR. is

curator of a golf museum and a library trustee in
Newport News, Va.

 

Young Alumni:

PLANNING FOR RETIREMENT WITH W&L IN MIND

 

As the public phase of the University’s capital campaign, “On the
Shoulders of Giants,” unfolds across the country, many of you will be asked
by volunteers to make significant financial commitments to W&L’s future,
commitments in addition to those of time and talent you have made to this
old school over the years. If you are young and are preoccupied with the
need to provide for your own retirement income, there is a planned gift that
you may want to consider.

Known formally as a deferred gift annuity, this simple contractual
arrangement between you and the University will provide for a sizable
current income tax deduction and a handsome income to be paid to you
beginning at some future date, perhaps when you retire. The income and
tax deduction benefits increase the longer you defer receipt of income. The
following example should serve to illustrate these benefits:

CHARITABLE GIFT ANNUITY

Cost Basis (Cash Donated): $10,000
Fixed Annual Income for Life: $2,160

Current Charitable Deduction: $8,957

Age of Donor: 40
Age at First Income Payment: 65

Principal Donated: $10,000

Given W&L’s rules for counting gifts of this type in the campaign, you
would receive credit for a gift in the amount of $8,957, which would
represent the present value of the University’s interest in this gift.

Bear in mind, too, that W&L can tailor these arrangements to meet
your particular needs and that they represent gifts, not investment oppor-
tunities. As with all planned gifts, | urge you to speak with your own
investment and legal advisors to see how a gift of this type might comple-
ment your current estate plan.

In sum, this arrangement affords a way to invest in the future of
General Lee’s college while also offering you some very real and tangible
benefits, benefits above and beyond those intangible ones derived from
expressing your commitment to Washington and Lee in such a meaningful
way.

As always, if you would like to learn more about the deferred gift
annuity or any other planned gift please call me at (703) 463-8425. I would
be pleased to help fashion a plan that is right for you.

David R. Long
Director of Planned Giving

 

42 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

DR. ROBERT S. HUTCHESON JR. reports
that he and his wife enjoyed the 1991 Five-Star
General's Homecoming.

HOMER D. JONES JR. and his wife, Helen,
recently celebrated their 50th wedding anniver-
sary. They spent the weekend with their three

sons and families at the Poconos.

DR. HANS A. SCHMITT retired from the fac-
ultyofthe t ‘niversity of Virginiain 1991. Hespent
the summer visiting Italy.

C. GANAHL WALKER JR. of San Antonio,
Texas, is one of 17 members of his family, includ-
ing his son C. GANAHL WALKER III, ’66, to
attend Wé&L. C. Ganahl Walker Jr. is planning to
bring his cwin granddaughters to look over the
W&L campus in March.

41

4 BENJAMIN F. ASHCROFT is
president and chief executive officer of the Sul-
phurSpringsand Nacogdoches Coca-Colaand Dr
Pepper bottling companies. He isalso treasurer of
Southwest Canners Inc. of Portales, N.M.

WILLIAM L. EVANS JR. is practicing law in
Fort Worth, ‘Texas.

SAMUEL C. GHOLSON works on commis-
sioned portraits for Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
Texas and Baylor Medical Center of Dallas.
Gholson also painted a portrait of Dr. Joseph
Goldstein for W&L.

WILLIAM L. (SONNY) HEARTWELL JR.
says he is “still retired.” He now makes his home
in Fredericksburg, Va.

ROBERT C. PETREY is an alderman for
Kingsport, Tenn. He is involved in many other
community and regional projects, and assists in
the Alumni Admissions Program.

ARTHUR C. SMITH took a cruise down the
Danube Riverin October 1991. Thecruise began
in Vienna, Austria, and ended in Istanbul, ‘Tur-
key, and took Smith through five different coun-
tries that were formerly under Communist con-
trol. He still makes his home in Washington, D.C.

"42 May 7-9

WILLIAM L. BRUCE is retired and traveling
the U.S. He has been in 48 states so far.

W. JOHN DANIEL moved from South Carolina
to Huntsville, Ala., inorder tobe closerto relatives
in Mississippi and Alabama.

JAMES S. HILL is retired and traveling the
World. He also plays tennis weekly.

DR. ANDREWS. LANIER is working parttime
for the Virginia Public Health Department in the

New River district. He retired from the prac-
tice of emergency medicine seven years ago.
He has sold his farm but still maintains his
home in Floyd County, Va.

WALTER L. MONROE is retired and living in
Millsboro, Del. He is an advisor to his wife, the
mayor of Millsboro.

Law: HOMER A. JONES JR. and Nell King
Bieger have formed the law firm of Jones and
King in Bristol, Va. ‘The firm will concentrate on
the areas of real estate and trust administration,
probate, estate planning, taxation, and business
planning. Jones and his partner are also certified
public accountants.

Law: CLIFFORD L. WALTERS is a retired
attorney living in Simpsonville, Ky.

43
JOHN C. KAMMERER does some

part-time work for the U.S. Geological Sur-
vey. He spent 46 years working for the USGS
before retiring in September 1990. He was a
hydrologist, studying and reporting on water
resources in various parts of the U.S. Kammerer
makes his home in Arlington, Va.

THE HON. ALLIE H. LANE retired from
active law practice on Dec. 31, 1991. He
makes his home in Bartow, Fla.

DOUGLAS W. McCAMMISH and his wife,
Betty Sue, recently returned from work in the
cities of Castries, St. Lucia, and Roseau in
Dominica, where he volunteered with the
International Service Executive Corps.
McCammish, retired chairman of the board of
McCammish Manufacturing Co. Inc., was re-
cruited by ISEC to assist small furniture and
cabinet manufacturers with improving pro-
duction. It was his fourth assignment for ISEC.

DONALD L. RICHARDSON was recently
elected chairman of the board of directors of
United Christian Community Credit Union in
‘Troy, Mich.

ERNEST E. SMITH is retired and living in
Milburn, N.J. He is active in volunteer projects,
suchas the town welfare board and the Red Cross.

:
WILLIAM S. LATZ is chairman of

the board of the United Way of Indiana, and
chairman of Eli Lilly grants committee. He is
a four-term Indiana state legislator.

DR. CHARLES A. MEAD JR. is retired and
living in Jacksonville, Fla.

DR. AND MRS. WILLIAM P. PEAK cele-
brated the birth of their second granddaugh-
ter in July. They live in Louisville, Ky.

DR. JOHN W. RUNYAN JR. was recently
presented with the Laureate Award from the
Tennessee Chapter of the American College
of Physicians. The Laureate Award is the
chapter’s highest honor. Runyan has received
several other honors, including the Upjohn
Award from the American Diabetes Associa-
tion, the John D. Rockefeller Public Service
Award in Health and the Rosenthal Award.
Runyan makes his home in Memphis, ‘Tenn.

JAMES C. STANFIELD has a general law
practice in Paris, Ill. He has been a sole
practioner for the last 42 years. He is also
involved in the management of farm property.

45
ROBERT O. CROCKETT JR.

and his wife, Jean, enjoyed the W&L Alumni
Collge white-water rafting trip through the
Grand Canyon in August.

DR. BENJAMIN M. KAPLAN recently com-
pleted his 35th year of private practice of
cardiology. He is also a clinical professor of
cardiology at the Northwestern University
medical school. He lives in Wilmette, III.

O.TOM KAYLOR JR. is practicing law forthe
Maryland law firm of Kaylor & Wantz in
Hagerstown. He reports he has five children
and 10 grandchildren.

CHARLES S. ROWE has been re-elected to
the board of directors of the American News-
paper Publishers Association. He was also
elected chairman of the ANPA Foundation.

JOHN H. SORRELLS JR. is retired and liv-
ing in Memphis, ‘Tenn.

46
ROBERT S. KEEBLER JR. is

retired and living in Reston, Va., and Sarasota,
Fla. He says he is always near the golf course.

WILLIAM A. MAGEE is keeping busy dur-
ing his retirement. He does volunteer work for
the Roanoke Symphony, Opera Roanoke,
Kiwanis, and his church. Last summer, he
went on the W&L Alumni College’s Danube
River Adventure. His classmate DON
HILLMAN and WILLARD MILLER, ’49,
joined Magee on the Danube trip.

BARTON P. QUAINTANCE is retired. He
and his wife, Joyce, split their time between
homes in Wilmington, Del.,and the Wintergreen
Resort, located near Waynesboro, Va. Thecouple
recently celebrated their 43rd anniversary. They
have five children and six grandchildren.

SHERMAN J. SMITH is a retired mortician in
Rochester, N.Y. He continues to keep busy by
working two or three days a week.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 43

"47 May 75

ROBERT A. WARMS recently retired after
23 years in the advertising specialty business.
He and his wife, Jessie, became grandparents
for the first time in March 1991. They live in
Melrose Park, Pa.

Law: ROGER L. CAMPBELL is retired
from the practice of law. He and his wife, Elsie,
spend the summers in Marlboro, Vt., and the
winters in ‘Texas. Campbell reports that he is
in good health.

Law: ALLIE H. LANE (see ’43).

48
DR. WILLIAM W. KITCHIN

JR. is professor emeritus of human resources
administration at Saint Leo’s College in Saint
Leo, Fla., and at the Tidewater Virginia Cen-
ter. He retired in July 1991.

CHARLES R. McDOWELL JR. isin his 43rd
year of working for the Richmond Times-Dis-
patch. He has been a Washington correspon-
dent for the paper since 1965. He is also work-
ing on Ken Burns’ baseball documentary for
the Public Broadcasting System.

Law: ‘THOMAS E. ADAMS JR. moved to
McLean, Va., in October.

Law: JOSEPH B. GEYER visited his daugh-
ter, Mary Jo, ’93, at W&L in October.

LAW: JAMES C. STANFIELD (see °44).

49
CLIFFORD B. BEASLEY JR. re-

tired in September after 22 years with Metco.
Inc. He lives in Birmingham, Ala.

EDWARDP. BERLIN JR. retired as editor of
the Waynesboro News-Virginian in December,
capping a 43-year career with the paper.

NORMAN FISCHER JR. is president of
Norman Fischer & Associates Inc., a media
brokerage firm based in Austin, Texas. The
firm is involved in brokering radio and televi-
sion stations throughout the country.

BEN E. GRIMM has retired and moved to
Rapidan, Va., with his wife, Lucy Ann. He still
does some library consulting and is one of the
few library consultants currently listed in Who’s
Who in America.

WILLARD MILLER (see WILLIAM A.
MAGEE, ’46).

SPENCER W. MORTEN is retired and liv-
ing in Bassett, Va. Morten, who retired as
chairman and chief executive officer of Bassett
Mirror Co., spends his winters in Florida.

44 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

MARK W. SAURS retired in June after 34
years as president of the Virginia League of
Savings Institutions.

CHARLES R. ‘TREADGOLD retired from
the insurance business on Oct. 1, 1991. He is
serving as the class agent for the class of 1949.
He plans to move to Skidway Island, Ga.,
which is near Savannah.

RICHARD H.’TURRELL isseniorvice presi-
dent of Fiduciary Trust International and
chairman of the board of trustees for Monmouth
College, N.J. He lives in Short Hills, N.J., with
his wife, Sally.

Law: O.'TOM KAYLOR (see °45).

au
GERARD A. BURCHELL JR.

has retired from teaching. He keeps busy
tending a “mini-orchard” with about 45 apple
varieties. He lives in Rochester, N.H.

DR. ROBERT V. JOEL has retired after 31
years in the practice of pathology in his home-
town of Jacksonville, Fla. He and his wife,
Sharon, continue to live in Jacksonville.

ANDREW L. PEABODY has formed Cre-
ative Marine, a company that manufactures
and sells marine products. Peabody devel-
oped the MAX anchor, among other products,
and Creative Marine will soon go into produc-
tiononthe SKIMMER 25, atrailerable auxilary
sailboat that is a reproduction of a 19th-cen-
tury sailboat known as the sharpie.

FRANKLIN S. (LIN) PEASE JR. works as a
manufacturer’s representative in home fur-
nishings. He is active in the W&L Alumni
Admissions Program and is a member of the
Chatham (N.J.) Board of Health and is the
administrator of the board of the Chatham
Methodist Church.

Law: BARTON QUAINTANCE (see °46).
Law: CHARLES S. ROWE (see ’45).

ak
GEORGE F. ARATA JR. retired

in June 1991, after 24 years with Southeast
Bank. He held numerous executive positions
there, including his most recent post as senior
vice president for marketing and private bank-
ing at the First National Bank in Palm Beach,
Fla. He lives in Fort Pierce, Fla.

WILLIAM L. DAVIDSON is a scientist for
Lockheed in Atlanta. He works in the war
laboratory of the Systems Analyst Division.

THE REV. JAMES C. FENHAGEN II has
been named program coordinator of the Cor-
nerstone Project, a national venture to

strengthen the ordained ministry of the Epis-
copal Church. He will start in that capacity in
the fall of 1992. Currently, Fenhagen is dean
and president of General Theological Semj-
nary in New York.

ROBERT L. HOPKINS JR., registrar of
Randolph-Macon College, was named recipi-
ent of the Samuel Nelson Gray Distinguished
Professor Award for 1991. The award is in
recognition of “a distinguished contribution
through teaching or other service to the col-
lege.” Hopkins joined the Randolph-Macon
administration in 1968.

JOHN F. KAY JR., a partner with the Rich-
mond law firm of Mays & Valentine, was
recognized for his service to the Virginia Board
of Bar Examiners during a special ceremony at
the Supreme Court of Virginia on Nov. 8, 1991,
Kay was first appointed to the board in No-
vember 1978, and was elected president of the
board in 1990. He officially retired as president
of the board in October 1991. The five-mem-
ber board is responsible for the licensing of
attorneys in Virginia.

NORWOOD A. McDANIEL is a self-em-
ployed insurance broker in Pittsburgh.

BARRY T. NEWBERY retired in 1991 after
35 years as a general agent of Minnesota Mu-
tual Life Insurance Co. and presidentof Medico
Insurance Planning Inc.

RICHARD B. ‘TAYLOR recently published
his eighth book. All of the books have been
historical compilations of Las Vegas, Nev.,
subjects. Taylor lives in Las Vegas.

FREDERICKG. UV HLMANN enjoyedavisit
to Lexington in May. It was the first time he
had been back to campus since he graduated
in June 1951. He was inducted into W&L's
chapter of Beta Gamma Sigma honorary soci-
ety for business administration.

Law: MARK W. SAURS (see ’49).

52 wil

JOHN B. (JAY) HANDLAN II retired in
December as chairman of H.L. Yoh Co., a
division of Day & Zimmerman Inc. of Phila-
delphia. He lives in Cherry Hills, N.J.

HELMUT H.(HANK) HUBER reports he is
“sort-of-retired,” as he does some substitute
teaching in local schools. Huber, who lives in
Clute, Texas, says he will be returning to
Guatemala in 1994.

DR. ROBERT A. MASLANSKY is director
of New York University-Bellevue Medical
Center’s Addiction Rehabilitation Program.
Most of his work is now with AIDS patients.

DR. HENRYI. WILLE TT’ JR. and his team-
mates from V irginia Beach, Va., won the 1991
U.S. Tennis Association’s 4.0 Men’s Senior
Team Chi ampionship in November. ‘They
defeated a team from Toledo, Ohio, 2-1 in the
final round. ‘The senior tournament is for
men 50 years and older.

9
DR. T. KYLE CRESON JR. is in

his 30th year of private practice of internal
medicine and hematology/oncology. He also
does volunteer work with the Boy Scouts of
America. Creson and his wife, Jayne, make
their home in Memphis, ‘Tenn.

SAMUELS. M. DuBOIS is president of U.K.
Paper-North America, a newly-formed sub-
sidiary of a Scottish premium coated printing
paper manufacturer in Philadelphia.

DR. HARRY A. FOZZARD has been pro-
moted to Distinguished Service Professor at
the University of Chicago. He also has been
named chairman of the Department of Phar-
macological and Physiological Sciences.
Fozzard recently gave the Litchfield Lecture
at Oxford University in England.

MALCOLM L. HOLEKAMP is running for
aseat in the U.S. Congress for the Missouri 3rd
District. He is running asa Republican against
Richard Gephardt. Holekamp makes his home
in Webster Groves, Mo.

RUEL W. ‘TYSON JR., a professor in the
Department of Religious Studies at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, di-
rects the Institute for the Arts and Humani-
ties, which offers fellowships to faculty in the
College of Arts and Sciences. He also serves as
the director of the Carolina Seminar Program,
which brings scholars and practitioners to-
gether to work on social problems.

‘34
RAYMOND FP. BEE is working for

U.S. Steel in Gary, Ind. He lives in Chicago.

JOHN M. BLUME is the senior member of
the law firm of Blume, Vazquez, Goldfaden,
Berkowitz & Donnelly, which was recognized
in the publication Best Lawyers in America.
Blume is also president of the New Jersey
chapter of the American Board of Trial Advo-
Cates and a fellow of the American College of
Trial Lawyers.

DAN [EL D. DICKENSON became regional
vice president for American Retirement Cor-
Poration in Nashville in October.

JAMES A. FREEDMAN sold his retail busi-
ness in April 1991. He currently works as a
Consultant and buyer for the new owner.

 

 

a

 

Garretson, JA recetved endorsement from Gorbachev. (Photo by Diane Stebbins)

Capitalists in Moscow?

GARRETSON, ’43, LEARNS THERE IS MUCH TO BE LEARNED

If capitalism can be compared to a
board game, then, Donald E. Garretson,
’43, says, the Russians are still trying to
figure out how to open the box.

Garretson, honorary director of the
national board for Junior Achievement
Inc., recently was part of a team of
teachers, students, and business people
that traveled tothe former Soviet Union,
bringing JA's programs to Russian class-
rooms, and Garretson said the trip was
an education for both parties.

“The image I had of the great, su-
perpower and military giant was com-
pletely shattered by my trip,” said
Garretson, retired vice president-chief
financial officer with 3M Co. “My gen-
eral impression of the country was gray
and drab. ‘The people were without
hope, almost defeated.”

But, he said, they were eager for JA's
educational assistance.

“Parents and teachers more than
once said to me, ‘I know it’s too late for
me, but I'm glad you're here helping
prepare our children for the new world
they will live in,’” he said.

JA's applied economics computer
program got the interest of the Rus-
sians. Garretson said he saw some young
people immediately grasp some basic

 

business principles that until then were
unknown to them.

“IT could see them on the computer
thinking, ‘Now, if we charge less for
these items, we might make less on
each item, but we’ll probably sell a lot
more,’ ” he said. “The students were
great, very alert and attentive.”

Garretson and the JA group met for
an hour with former Soviet leader
Mikhail Gorbachev, and Russian presi-
dent Boris Yeltsin heartily endorsed
the group’s efforts in a speech. A
commitment to the JA program is
in 1,000 schools already.

Such a commitment is necessary, if
only for the reason that basic knowl-
edge of capitalism is at best non-exis-
tent and at worst severely prejudiced.
‘Through JA's trip to Russia, however,
opinions are changing and the young
people are beginning to learn the rules
of the game. For his part, Garretson
learned a lot, too.

“I’ve been through D-Day at
Normandy and Okinawa, and I was on
the USS Missourrat the Japanese formal
surrender,” he said, “but in my two
weeks there, I saw history being made
in every bit as dramatic a way as I did in
World War II.”

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 45

OVERTON P. POLLARD, executive direc-
tor of the Virginia Public Defender Commis-
sion, was recently awarded the National Legal
Aid and Defender Association’s Reginald
Heber Smith Award for 1991. The award rec-
ognizes an attorney for his outstanding contri-
butions to indigent criminal defense while
working with a defense services organization.
Pollard lives in Richmond.

HENRY A. TURNER JR. was appointed
Bass professor of history at Yale University.
He had been master of Davenport College at
Yale for 10 years before retiring in May.

‘5
DAVID M. BERLINGHOF was

re-elected president of the Chicago division of
the Futures Industry Association for 1992. He
was recently appointed Chicago Global Ser-
vice Center manager for Cargill Investor Ser-
vices Inc., and he continues to be a senior vice
president supervising CIS regional offices
throughout the U.S.

ARTHUR L. FERN II established the
Wyvern Trading Co. in Bloomfield, Conn. He
works with small and medium sized firms that
are exporting or sourcing abroad.

DOUGLAS D. MONROE JR. was elected
president of the Virginia Bankers Association
in June. His term runs until June 1992.

PAUL R. MULLER is retired and living in
Savannah, Ga. He reports that he is heavily
involved in antique cars, Savannah politics,
and charity fund-raising.

JOSEPH F. ROWE has started a mortgage
brokerage firm. He lives in Hampton, Va.

WILEY W. SPURGEON JR. left 7he Muncie
(Ind.) Star and Muncie Evening Press on Octo-
ber 1, 1991. He now lives in northern Indiana
and is pursuing several fiction and non-fiction
writing projects.

Law: MALCOLM HOLEKAMP (see ’53).
Law: JOHN F. KAY JR. (see °51).

36
Law: JOHN BLUME (see ’54).
9

May 7-9

JOHN F. ARNOLD, associate professor of
curriculum and instruction at North Carolina
State University, recently published Visions of
Teaching and Learning for the National Middle
School Association. He also serves as a con-
sultant to the National Board for Professional
‘Teaching Standards and to Nickelodeon
cable television. He lives in Raleigh.

46 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ROBERT D. BALLANTINE is semi-retired
and living in Annandale, N.].

JOHN D. GARSON is vice president of Re-
public Hogg Robinson of Ohio, Inc. It is a
property casualty broker in the U.S., owned by
a British firm.

ROBERT P. HAWKINS III (see ROBERT
G. JACOB, ’59).

MORTON P. ILER is an independent man-
agement and financial consultant in Los An-
geles. He lives in Santa Monica, Calif.

JOHN D. MARSH isan investment broker in
Leesburg, Va., and president of the Purcellville
(Va.) Business and Professional Association.
He manages a farm in Loudoun County and is
president of the Loudoun Valley Community
Center and the local concert series. He has
five children and three grandchildren.

H. MERRILL PLAISTED III is director of
the Metro Chamber of Commerce, and trea-
surer of the Board of Managers for the Sons of
the Revolution. He lives in Richmond.

JOHN W. SINWELL has retired from IBM
after 34 years. He is a consultant, a teacher at
the Wharton Business School at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania, and isan outside director
on two corporate boards.

Law: OVERTON P. POLLARD (see ’54).

58
On Feb. 1, 1992, PAGE D.

CRANFORD became the partner in charge
of the Norfolk, Va., office of the law firm of
McGuire Woods Battle & Booth. He had been
senior executive vice president and general
counsel and secretary of C&S/Sovran.

HERMAN J. (SONNY) FENSTER-
MACHER II had a mini-reunion at the Win-
tergreen Resort near Waynesboro, Va., in
November with classmates DAVID
DAWSON and KAJ BRENT.

JOHN P. MOYER is a vice president at
Wheat First/Butcher & Singer Inc., in Youngs-
town, Ohio, where he has worked for 25 years.

DAVID G. NOBLE has been recently ap-
pointed director of parts marketing for John
Deere and Co., the world’s largest manufac-
turer of agricultural, industrial, and lawn and
grounds care products. He is responsible for
Deere’s aftermarket business in North

America. Noble’s daughter, Jennifer, isamem-
ber of the class of 1992 at W&L.

MAJ. GENERAL ROSS G. PICKUS was
recently assigned to the Department of the
Army as assistant deputy chief of staff for

personnel. He is also serving as director of
Army affairs for the Reserve Officers Associa-
tion of the United States. He lives in Fairfax
Station, Va.

TTHEODOREG. RICH JR. purchased aCen-
tury 21 franchise in September 1991. Rich was
awarded the Centurion Sales Award for 1991,
which is the highest sales award for Century
21. He lives in Lower Gwynedd, Pa.

"D9
JOHN H. ESPERIAN was named

“Professor of the Month” at Community Col-
lege of Southern Nevada in Las Vegas.

DR. THOMAS P. FOLEY JR. is director of
the division of endocrinology, metabolism and
diabetes mellitus in the department of pediat-
rics for the University of Pittsburgh and
Children’s Hospital of Pittsburgh. He is a
consultant for Project HOPE for pediatric pro-
grams in Poland, China, and Byelorussia.

EDWARD F. HALSELL JR. is a vice presi-
dent of Merrill Lynch in Dallas. He and his
wife, Randi, have two daughters, Susan, 22,
and Karen, 21. Karenisa member of the W&L
class of 1992, majoring in pre-med.

WILLIAM K. HUGHES was named execu-
tive vice president and chief operating officer
of Industrial Steel Construction Inc., a pri-
vately owned steel processor and fabricator.

ROBERT G. JACOB spent Thanksgiving
with BOB HAWKINS, ’57, and his family at
the Hawkins’ home in Hilton Head, S.C.

‘The Westside Center for Independant Living
recently named EVAN J. KEMP, chairman of
the Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission, as the recipient of its prestigious 1991
Independence Award. Kemp was instrumen-
tal in formulating the 1990 Americans with
Disabilities Act.

Law: JOHN D. MARSH (see ’57).

60
RICHARD H. BLOND is retiring

from Northwest Airlines after almost 24 years
with the company. He lives in Bainbridge
Island, Wash., where he plans to do Episcopal
Hospice work.

WILLIAM B. BLUNDIN is president of
Concord Holding Corp. with the Concord Fi-
nancial Group. He lives in New York City.

FRANKLIN S. DUBOIS JR. lives in West
Hartford, Conn.

DR. JOHN S. HOPEWELL has changed
careers after 19 years of teaching U.S. history.
He is now an archivist working in county

 

records at the Virginia State Library & Ar-
chives. He lives in Richmond.

DR. JON B. McLIN its the senior industrial
specialist at the International Labor Office in
Geneva.

DR. MERVYN F. SILVERMAN 1s president
of the American Foundation for AIDS Re-
search and a consultant to the Harvard Insti-
tute for International Development. He also
directs the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
AIDS Health Services Program. He makes his
home in San Francisco.

61
DWIGHT R. CHAMBERLAIN

was named Kiwanian of the Yearby the Kiwanis
Club of Scottsburg, Ind., for 1991-92. He was
cited for “outstanding community support and

involvement.

DR. AND MRS. FIRTH S. SPIEGEL re-
cently participated in the Alumni College’s
rafting trip down the Colorado River and
through the Grand Canyon. Spiegel reports
that he and his wife had an excellent time.

SAMUEL C.(TAG)STRITE JR. retired from
IBM in June 1991. He lives on a 125 acre farm
in New Paltz, N.Y.

WINTHROP L. WEED, who has been living
in Australia for the last six years, was back in
Lexington last May with his Australian wife,
Rhonda, for his 30th class reunion.

Law: GERALD E. SMALLWOOD lives in
Kitty Hawk, N.C., with his wife, Jane.

"62 May 79

DR. W. RICHARD ANDERSON JR. has
recently been elected to the administrative
board of the South Atlantic Association of
Departments of English. He lives in Mont-
gomery, Ala.

DAVID W. BENN is managing director of the
international banking firm of Korn/Ferry In-
ternational, in Australia. He is active in com-
munity affairs, including president of the
American Cluband senior vice presidentof the
American Chamber of Commerce.

ALAN M.CORWIN served ascampaign man-
ager for the port commissioner of Olympia,
Wash., in the November election. Corwin was
also elected to the board of the North Thurston
Schools Education Foundation.

JAMES A. GWINN JR. of Houston recently
Caught up with classmates JOHN AMOS, in
West Virginia, and WORTHINGTON
BROWN, in Florida.

 

 

 

Lexington contractor Jim Brown, concert organizer Burr Datz, ’75, and Randall Ray, ’85, were three of
many performers to entertain at the"One Acoustic Evening" concert at the Lenfest Center

That W&°L sound

DATZ, FRIENDS MAKE BEAUTIFUL MUSIC ‘TOGETHER FOR GOOD CAUSE

When W&L law professor Allan Ides
offhandedly suggested to the inimitable
William C. “Burr” Datz, ’75, that the
corps of local acoustic musicians ought
to get together for a show, he assumed
like most great ideas it would never see
the light of day..Wrong..

Datz, the one-time University assis-
tant proctor and long-time practitioner
of old-time, bluegrass, and folk music,
took Ides’ idea and ran with it. Datz
became the originator, talent coordina-
tor, promoter, performer, and master of
ceremonies for what was the first (but
most assuredly won't be the last) pre-
sentation of “One Acoustic Evening,” a
celebration of acoustic music with a
decidedly W&L flair.

‘The concert featured musicians that
represented W&L alumni, administra-
tors, staff, professors, and current stu-
dents pickin’ and singin’ for the benefit
of the Rockbridge Area Relief Associa-
tion. The overflow crowd in the Lenfest
Center helped raise over $750 in dona-
tions to RARA, which provides imme-
diate emergency help to local residents.

Datz, who worked at W&L from
1977-88, is campus minister for St.
Patrick’s Church in Lexington. But his
alter ego is as a member of the much-
loved local band Wildgrass. With that
group as a base, Datz began rounding
up the local talent for a benefit concert.

‘The evening started off with W&L
Director of Major Gifts Dick Sessoms

and senior ‘l’ravis Corder sharing the
stage and their guitar talents. ‘Then,
Randall Ray, ’85, and area native Jim
Brown performed traditional country
ballads, and they were later joined by
Datz, who played folk songs. Later
Datz was joined by Chris Leva, ’86, on
guitarand Lexington native Lee Sauder
on harmonica.

The rotating evening then moved
to an impromptu performance by
Sauder and Doug Harwood, ’74, with
Harwood performing on the timpani.
‘Then, Ides performed with one of his
students Mark Cathey, ’93, on guitar.
They were followed by fiddler Gary
Humiston, the Lenfest Center techni-
cal director, and the banjo-playing ge-
ologist Odell McGuire, who joined Leva
for a performance of some traditional
old-time string band music.

The final act was Wildgrass, which
includes Datz, David Drain (a Warner
Center custodian) and area residents
Freddy Goodhart, Johnny Staton, and
John Schofield.

Datz said he was overwhelmed by
the response to the concert.

“The night just turned out so amaz-
ing with the big crowd and the perform-
ers,” he said. “I had some high hopes,
but we went way beyond those. It re-
ally was a good time for a good cause.

“After the success of this first one,
I’m really looking forward to another
one,” he said.

 

 

WA&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 47

R. WILLIAM IDE III, partner in the Atlanta
office of the law firm of Kutak Rock, was
recently nominated to become president-elect
of the American Bar Association. ‘That would
lead to aterm of president in 1993-94. Ide has
been active in many areas of the ABA, and
currently chairs the association’s special com-
mittee on the drug crisis.

DR. R. BRYAN MILLER is back teaching
chemistry at the University of California-Davis
after spending a year in Washington, D.C., at
the National Science Foundation.

JOHN W. VARDAMAN JR. was recently
named a fellow of the American College of
Trial Lawyers. He is a partner in the Washing-
ton, D.C., firm of Williams & Connolly.
Vardaman has made several trips back to cam-

pus to visit his son, Davis, who is a freshman
at W&L.

COL. RUFUS C. YOUNG JR. is a partner and
chair of the environmental law department of
the Los Angeles-based law firm of Burke,
Williams & Sorensen. He also recently be-
came president of W&L’s alumni chapter in
San Diego.

63
CHARLES C. HART was elected

senior vice president of Johnson & Higgins
Co. in Philadelphia. He saw his son, Caldwell,
graduate from W&L in June 1991.

RICHARD M. HERMAN isownerand medi-
cal director of an urgent care center in Port-
land, Maine. He is also a board certified family
practioner. Herman is married and has four
children ages 22 to 6.

DANIEL H. MARKSTEIN III was recently
elected to the board of directors of Lex Mundi
Inc., an international association of law firms in
117 jurisdictions around the world. He also is
on the board of trustees of ‘The Eye Founda-
tion Inc. executive committee and The Ameri-
can Institute on Federal ‘Taxation. He lives in
Birmingham, Ala.

DR. HAMLET 'T. NEWSOM has the posi-
tion of chief of plastic surgery at Presbyterian
Hospital of Dallas.

ROBERT E. PAYNE was nominated by Pre-
sident George Bush to becomea federal judge.
Payne, head of litigation for the Richmond law
firm of McGuire Woods Battle & Boothe,
would fill a vacant post in the U.S. District
Court’s Eastern District of Virginia. The East-
ern District has courts in Alexandria, Rich-
mond, and Norfolk. ‘The Senate Judiciary
Committee will hold hearings early in 1992,
and then Payne’s nomination will be voted on
by the full Senate.

48 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

‘THOMAS P. RIDEOUT is corporate devel-
opment associate for J.E. Robert Cos. He is
responsible for a broad range of marketing
duties. He lives in Alexandria, Va.

ANTHONY D. SCHLESINGER has joined
the New York law firm of Willkie Farr &
Gallagher. He had been a partner in the law
firm of Milbank, ‘weed, Hadley & McCloy
for the last 15 years.

DR. J. BRANTLEY SYDNOR is an
otolaryngologist and head and neck surgeon in
Roanoke, Va. His son, Brantley Jr., and daugh-
ter, Anna, are both graduating from high
school this year.

GLENN O. THORNHILL JR. received the
United Way of Roanoke Valley’s first Alexis
de ‘Tocqueville Society Award for his role in
establishing the United Way’s leadership giv-
ing program. Thornhill, a member of the board
since 1989, was the first chairman of the
President’s Circle, the United Way’s leader-
ship giving society.

64
Florida State University Geology

Professor SHERWOOD W. (WOODY) WISE
JR. and four colleagues made a geological
traverse across the Himalayan mountain range
of ‘Tibet in June 1991 to study the collision
zone between India and Asia.

PHILIP S. E. BOOTH is on the soloists’
roster of the Metropolitian Opera, a contribu-
tor to Stagebil/ and other magazines, a narrator
for the ‘Talking Books division of the Ameri-
can Foundation for the Blind, and an actor. His
most recent acting role was that of Alexander

Hamilton, in “Hamilton vs. Burr,” on National
Public Radio.

NATHANIEL J. (NICK) COHEN’S daugh-
ter, Francie, is a member of the Class of 1995
at W&L. Cohen makes his home in Virginia
Beach, Va.

DR. BILL H. KINSEY JR. has returned to
England to manage his consulting and re-
search firm. Kinsey has returned after spend-
ing two years in Zimbabwe with the Interna-
tional Food Policy Research Institute.

WILLIAM H. MARMION (see W.
LAWRENCE FELLMAN, ’67).

‘TAIN P. ‘TOMPKINS is serving a year as
diplomat-in-residence at the University of
‘Texas at Austin.

JOHN T. WINEBRENNER and his family
are now living in Hong Kong, where
Winebrenner is regional vice president for
RJR ‘Tobacco Co. in Northeast Asia. He worked
in Hong Kong eight years ago.

65
C. EDMONDS ALLEN III was

recently elected chairman of the Mendicants’
Society of New York. He is also the authorized
Remington firearms dealer for Turkey. Allen
lives in New York City.

DR. BROOKS G. BROWN III is an
ophthamologist in Bethesda, Md. He and his
wife, Lise (sister of RIDGE GRANT, ’65),
have five children. ‘Their daughter, Lise, is a
freshman at W&L. Their other children are
daughters Anne-Lamar and Claire, and sons
Brooks IV and Grant.

THE REV. ‘THOMAS T. CRENSHAW is
senior pastor of First Presbyterian Church in
Red Bank, N.J. He coaches Pop Warner foot-
ball and Little League baseball, and officiates
basketball games.

JOHN W. HUNT is chief financial officer of
Quality Beverage Co. He and his wife, Ann,
and son Andy, 14, live in Houston.

RICHARD R. KREITLER retired from his
money management business in March. Since
then, he has traveled extensively, and spent
the winter in Australia and New Zealand.

J. LARRY MANNING JR. has moved back
to Washington, D.C., with his wife, Dianne,
and daughter, Lisa, 11. The family spent five
years in London, where Manning was part-
ner-in-charge of the London office of Jones,
Day, Reavis & Pogue. He coordinates the
firm’s international practice from Washington.

DR. GEORGE M. SANDERS has a son in
college and a daughter in high school. He
lives in Cherry Hill, N.J.

66
ERIK C. ANDERSON is a vice

president and stockbroker with Robert W.
Baird & Co., a regional investment banking
firm in Milwaukee.

JOHN D. ANDERSON is a guidance coun-
selor at Morris High School. Since becoming a
counselor, he has been a college advisor, crisis
intervention specialist, and bilingual coun-
selor. He was twice named Morris’s “Coun-
selor of the Year.” He lives in Danbury, Conn.,
with his wife, Malky, and three children.

GEOFFREY C. BUTLER has been head-
master of the Fort Worth Country Day School
for the past five years. He and his wife, Evie,
have a vacation home in Angel Fire, N.M., in
addition to their home in Fort Worth.

SAMUEL H. FRAZIER is a partner in the law
firm of Spain Gillon in Birmingham, Ala. He
was elected chairman of the Urban Forestry
Commission of Birmingham.

 

 

CHARLES N. GRIFFIN II was named
general manager of Eastman Kodak’s Mexican
operations, working in Mexico City. He and
his wife, Jody, recently celebrated their 25th
anniversary. They have four children.
BRUCE W. RIDER was recently featured in
the Fort Worth Star-Telegram for his civic
work in Grapevine, ‘Texas. Rider, who is le-
gally blind, has beenamemberof the GRACE
emergency assistance program, the Grapevine
library board, a city bond committee, the
Masons, and the Rotary Club. He also writes a
column for the Grapevine Sun.

G. ALEXANDER TAFT was appointed di-
rector of the transportation department of
Wilmington, Del., in September 1991.

C. GANAHL WALKER III (see C. GANAHL
WALKER JR., ’40).

BUCKNER WOODFORD JR. is the 1991-
92 president of the Kentucky Bankers Asso-
ciation. He lives in Paris, Ky.

Law: GEORGE W. WOOTEN is president
of the Roanoke Bar Association.

67 oa

Ryan and Remy Fellman, sons of W.
LAWRENCE FELLMAN, play for youth
league football teams in Dallas which are
coached by W&L Alumni. Ryan played under
WILLIAM H. MARMION, ’64, for the St.
Mark’s Lions; Remy was coached by ‘THO-
MAS G. VAN AMBURGH, ’73, of the Uni-
versity Park Maroon Bombers. Both teams
finished their seasons undefeated.

‘THOMAS J. HARDIN II was recently listed
in Who's Who in Finance and Industry. He is
president of A.T. Investment Management
Inc., a registered investment advisor.

ANDREW H. LUPTON is chief executive
officer of U.S. Message Corp., acompany with
more than 200 employees. U.S. Message pro-
vides a range of nationwide telemessaging
Services to major companies, including Sears,
State Farm, and USF&G.

ROGER A. MILAM is the managing partner
of the Nashville, Tenn., law firm of Denney,
Lackey & Chernau.

ANSLEY WATSON JR., managing partner
of the Tampa, Fla., law firm of MacFarlane
Ferguson, is in his 22nd year of practicing law.
His practice is concentrated in the areas of
public utility and food labeling law. He and his

wife, Elaine, have two children, Alex and
Ansley III.

Law: ROBERT E. PAYNE (see 63).

 

 

Social diplomacy

EVINCH IS SCHOLAR, DIPLOMAT

Gunay Evinch, ’91L, whois inthe
middle of a Fulbright scholarship in
Turkey, is doing his part to help U.S.
diplomacy in the rapidly developing
and diplomatically crucial nation. He’s
hosting a monthly cocktail party.

While the get-together at his
apartment in the capital city of Ankara
isn’t all Evinch is doing, the party is a
tremendous learning experience both
for his guests and himself.

“Part of the Fulbright grant is that
we are to be representatives of the
United States, and to do this, I have a
cocktail party every month,” said
Evinch, who lectured at the School of
Law in February. “I invite members of
the press, leaders in government and
diplomatic circles, and I invite the av-
erage Turk, like my bank teller. It’s an
incredible exchange of ideas.”

Evinch is in the midst of two years
in Turkey as a Fulbright scholar. His
primary research is being done in An-
kara and Istanbul.

Evinch, a Turkish-American
whose parents are native ‘Turks, said
‘Turkey is ata crucial point in its devel-
opment. The legendary Kemal
Ataturk, the founder of the modern
‘Turkish nation, began Western reform
in Turkey in the 1920s, and that devel-
opment made dramatic progress under
President Turgat Ozal. Yet while Tur-
key leans toward Western and demo-
cratic ideals, it is also Islamic, and as a
result, it finds itself in an international
political tug of war. It faces the slings
and arrows of terrorism sponsored by
Iraq, Iran, Syria, and Libya, countries
that want to see democracy fail in favor
of Islamic fundamentalism.

‘Turkey then must try to keep its
liberal democratic idealism alive and at
the same time try to maintain ideal
human rights, despite being pushed to
the limit by terrorists. Evinch ex-
plained that ‘Turkey is in a Catch-22
when terrorists who bomb shopping
malls are arrested. Severe disciplinary

 

action brings complaints of human
rights violations, yet leniency provides
for an atmosphere where terrorism can
thrive.

“They feel the pressure to make
democracy work,” Evinch said. “And I
think it is working, and it will work.”

Evinch’s research in human rights
has him delving into these dilemmas
faced by Turkish leaders. Evinch
pointed to a number of recent legal
reforms as important changes in
‘Turkey’s growing liberal democracy. A
Miranda law was instituted early this
year, pre-hearing detention periods
were lessened, and previous “no-talk-
ing” periods have been eliminated.

The problem for Turkey is that
these good measures often are not pub-
licized, at least not in the way that
negative images are sometimes por-
trayed. The notion ofthe Turkish prison
as promoted by films like Midnight Ex-
press hasn’t helped—and is not close to
reality. ‘The film depicted the true
story of the arrest, imprisonment, and
mistreatment of American Billy Hays
in a prison in Turkey.

“Midnight Express was an exag-
geration,” Evinch said. “The problem
is that while there is quickly a mobiliza-
tion of blame for things that go wrong,
there is not a mobilization of credit
when things go right.”

Evinch said the ‘Turkey of today
has a bright, but trying future.

“The tourist’s expectations will be
much lower than the reality,” Evinch
said. “There will be growing pains, but
I believe the change for the better is
irreversible.”

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 49

68
C. HOWARD CAPITO is vice

president of NationsBank of ‘Tennessee. He
lives in Johnson City, ‘Tenn.

CHRISTOPHER B. CHANDOR is building
and operating office buildings and shopping
centers. He also practices real estate and com-
mercial law for Chandor & McAndrews. He
lives in Pineville, Pa.

ROANE M. LACY JR. is chief executive
officer of Plantation Foods Inc., a family-owned
integrated turkey meat products company. He
makes his home in Waco, Texas, with his wife
and three children.

BARRY J. LEVIN was recently elected presi-
dent of his synagogue, Beth Am Israel in Penn
Valley, Pa. He continues to be active in the
community and serves as vice chairman of the
B’nai B’rith Hillel Commission.

STEVEN R. SAUNDERS was a member of
the international observer delegation for Hong
Kong’s first direct elections to the territory’s
legislative council in September 1991.

D. WHITNEY THORNTON is a partner in
the San Francisco law firm of Seyforth, Shaw,
Fairweather & Geraldson. He practices gov-
ernment contracts law.

DR. ROBERT M. WEIN is chief of obstetrics
and gynecology at Moses H. Cone Memorial
Hospital and Women’s Hospital of Greens-
boro in Greensboro, N.C. His son, Robert, is a
member of W&L’s class of 1994.

Law: C. EDMONDS ALLEN (see ’65).

Law: PAUL M. NEVILLE has merged his
law firm with the new firm of Minniece, Hamill,
Wilson, Mitts & Neville. He has set up his new
office in Jackson, Miss.

69
W. STEVEN JONES is manager

of assessments in ARCO’s Environmental

Remediation Group. He makes his home in
Pasadena, Calif.

DAVID 'T. SHUFFLEBARGER is the assis-
tant to the president for institutional advance-
ment, and the director of development at
Valdosta State College in Georgia.

GARY D. SILVERFIELD purchased the as-
sets of an athletic equipment manufacturer
and reconditioner in Jacksonville, Fla. Star
Athletics Inc. and Star Manufacturing & Re-
conditioning Inc. specializes in football hel-
mets and shoulder pads.

Law: THORNTON M. (TIM) HENRY
(see *66).

50 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

70
DR. ‘TERRY GARDNER AUS-

TIN has recently entered private practice with
offices in Atlanta and Rome, Ga.

DR. FRANK E. FISHER JR. was issued a
U.S. patent for protective hand forceps and he
is currently negotiating a license agreement.
He was promoted to lieutenant colonel in the
United States Air Force Medical Corps, after
two years on active duty. Fisher is stationed at
Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton,
Ohio, where he is in the human engineering
division of the Armstrong Laboratory crew
systems directorate.

DR. HENRY A. FLEISHMAN is raising quar-
ter horses. He recently hada yearling gelding
qualify for the Youth World Quarter Horse
Show and the World Quarter Horse Show in
‘Tulsa, Okla.

GEORGE W. HAMLIN is the author of
Sky/iners, a pictorial history of the North Ameri-
can airline industry in the 1950s and 1960s.
The book was published by World Transport
Press in October 1991.

RANDOLPH L. HUTTO has joined First
Financial Management Corp. as executive vice
president and general counsel. FFMC is a
national leader in information services.

DAVID D. KYMPTON is senior vice presi-
dent of commercial banking and senior credit
officer at Virginia Federal Savings Bank. He
and his wife, Connie, recently returned to
Richmond from northern Virginia.

DR. W. LEE MOFFATT III is chief of sur-
gery atSt. Francis Hospital in Memphis, Tenn.
He has had a private practice for the last 12
years. He lives in Memphis with his wife,
Denna, and two children.

DAVID W. PATTON is president of the
Angel Fire, N.M., Board of Realtors. He lives
in Angel Fire with his wife, Therese.

DR. STUART L. PORTER was recently
elected vice president of the National Wildlife
Rehabilitators Association. He wasalso elected
to Who’s Whoin Veterinary Science and Medi-
cine, and was a speaker at the Second Annual
Animal Welfare Forum sponsored by the
American Veterinary Medical Association in
Chicago in November 1991.

HARRY L. SALZBERG isa broker with Quick
& Reilly in Philadelphia.

Law: NORMAN H. SINGER isa partner in
the Washington, D.C., office of the law firm of
Keck, Mahin & Cate.

Law: WHITNEY THORNTON (see ’68).

"#1

DR. WALTER B. BEVERLY and
his family recently visited classmate DAVID
WHITE and his family in Colorado. Beverly
practices emergency medicine in Lynchburg,
Va., where he lives with his wife, Joanna, and
sons, Bryant, 5, and Andrew, 1.

JOHN M. DUCKWORTH has been involved
with his father’s company, which makes CD-
ROMS in different regulatory law fields. He
reports that his golf handicap is down to seven
now, and he is keeping busy with church,
community projects, and his family. He lives
in Roanoke, Va., with his wife, Hoye, and
children, Sara, 8, and Alex, 5.

CHARLES F. (CHIP) HARRIS JR. lives in
North Haverhill, N.H., with his wife, Carol,
and children, Ramey, 16, Adam, 13, Ashley,
10, and Lauren, 3.

STEVEN L. HAWLEY has been promoted
to safety and special projects manager for
Browning-Ferrris Industries in the Cincinnati
landfill district.

JOHN KLINEDINST (see JOHN M.
DURANT, ’90).

DR. ANDREW G. KUMPURIS has been
named to the board of directors of Worthen
National Bank of Arkansas. He is medical
director of the coronary care and cardiac

stepdown unit at St. Vincent Infirmary Medi-
cal Center. He lives in Little Rock, Ark.

WALTER W. MAY is an attorney in Louis-
ville, Ky. In his spare time, he acts, directs and
writes plays.

ROBERT R. RADCLIFFE is director of
North American sales and marketing for Inte-
grated Solutions Inc., a software house that
develops and sells graphical user interface
tools. Radcliffe is responsible forall sales chan-
nels in the U.S. and Canada.

DR. ‘THOMAS E. REYNOLDS is a partner
ina four-man family practice group. He and his
wife, Charla, and sons, Keith, 12, and William,
8, live in Culpepper, Va.

79) “a

BRUCE W. CUSSON is manager of the secu-
rity settlement department at Union Trust
Co. He lives in Clinton, Conn., with his wife,
Cathy, and children, Craig, 15, Ryan, 13, and
Eryn, 7.

DR. MICHAEL W. McCALL isa dermatolo-
gist specializing in skin cancer and dermato-
logic surgery. He is also director of the derma-
tologic surgery program for the University of

 

 

Louisville division of skin cancer and derma-
rologic surgery. He and his wife, Margie, have

four children.

GILBERT'S. MEEM JR.
is a senior vice president
and registered investment
advisor with Dean Witter
in New York City. He and
his wife, Knight, and chil-
dren, Simrall, Baird, and
Halsey make their home in
New York City.

DR. FREDRICK H. SANDS lives on the
beach on the north shore of Maui. He works
part time as a physician and is involved with
three environmental groups which he started:
State Park at Makena, Maui Tommorrow, and
the Maui Open Space Trust.

NEWTON H. THOMPSON III was recently
promoted to second vice president and assis-
tant treasurer of ‘Treasury Operations at ‘The
New England, a life insurance and invest-
ment company with more than $17 billion in
assets. | hompson is responsible for corporate
finance functions.

Law: WILLIAM K. BLOCK JR. is president
of Blade Communications Inc., which operates
15 media properties. He is active on the boards
of the ‘Toledo Museum of Art and Toledo
Symphony. Block is also president of Read for
Literacy Inc.,anon-profit literary agency which
is teaching more than 1,000 adults in the
Toledo area how to read.

"73
ROBERT T. BRUYERE isa resi-

dent architect with J.C. Penney Co. in Dallas.
He is involved in managing the construction
of the company’s new corporate headquar-
ters. Bruyere makes his home in Dallas with
his wife, Anne, and daughters, Elizabeth and
Catherine Jane.

JEFFREY C. BURRIS is practicing law two
days a week, working part time for a local
church doing hospital visitation, and leading a
healing/wholeness ministry while attending
seminary part time. Burris underwent a heart
transplant three years ago. He makes his home
in Indianapolis.

JOFF RE J. (EFF) CROSS has joined the
insurance brokerage firm of John L. Wortuam
& Son in Houston.

JOHN W. FOLSOM was recently elected to
the board of directors of the U.S. League of
Savings Institutions. He will have responsi-
bility for the governance and administration
of the league with oversight authority forall its
Operations. Folsom, whois presidentand chief

 

 

 

Luckey helps
poor survive

A REAL LIFE ROBIN HoobD sToRY

‘Todd Luckey, ’79, the former Wall
Street municipal bond salesman, re-
members life in the lap of luxury, nego-
tiating big deals, earning big money,
and making the rich richer.

‘Today, he finds himself on the other
side—“the right side” —and instead of
helping the rich get richer, he is trying
to make sure the poor survive. It’s a
better way of life, he says, and to some
struggling families in Connecticut, he
is nothing short of a hero.

“Tt’sa little like being Robin Hood,”
Luckey said from his office at Shaw-
mut Mortgage Co. in Hartford, Conn.
Instead of arranging deals for the rich,
Luckey is a mortgage counselor,
throwing a life preserver to people
floundering in a sea of debt.

With the growing recession making
life particularly brutal in the North-
east, Luckey's office is flooded with
people needing his advice on how to
avoid foreclosures. Even for a man who
spent eight years in the Wall Street
pressure cooker shouting out deals in
the middle of phone calls, such a load
can be overwhelming. But Luckey
wouldn’t have it any other way.

“Right now, with the recession the
way it is, things are quite severe,” he
said. “It’s so bad that I’ve got workouts
going right and left. I feel like a doctor
at Gettysburg. ‘There are only so many
I can save.

“Butthechallenge is great. I’ve never
worked so hard in my life, but I’ve
never been happier either.”

You can sense the satisfaction even
in his voice, a you-know-this-work-I’m-
doing-is-pretty-good kind of feeling.
That feeling wasn’t there as a bond
salesman for Tucker Anthony Inc. on
Wall Street, and it wasn’t there when
he relocated to Hartford. It only started
when he decided to quit.

“| began to realize that I was staying
on for nothing,” he said. “I knew I had

 

 

Photo by Sherry Peters, The Hartford Courant

to leave. I just kept thinking there’s got
to be a better way.”

Luckey also learned that he wanted
to help people. Recognizing the trou-
bling economic times and how his own
financial expertise could be invaluable
to others, Luckey thought he could
help, and approached Shawmut Mort-
gage with the idea of being a financial
adviser to homeowners who were strug-
gling with their payments.

A year-and-a-half later, he finds him-
self with as many as 150 files on his desk
atone time. All of them are people who
need help of some kind, whether it be
a restructuring of their debt, or an ex-
planation of their legal rights, or even
just a gentle nudge that maybe this
expenditure needs to be eliminated.
It’s the human touch that Luckey is
striving for. It’s the ability to help people
help themselves and the satisfaction
that goes with it that has Luckey feeling
richer than any bond salesman any-
where.

“My heart goes out to these people,”
he said. “There are some very sad
stories. Itreally hurts to see the guy with
a wife and two kids who’s trying to live
the American Dream and can’t make it.

“Buton the other hand, when you’ re
able to save somebody like that, that’s
very rewarding. That’s really fun.”

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 51

executive officer of South Carolina Federal
Savings Bank in Columbia, S.C., represents
District 6, which includes the states of South
Carolina and North Carolina.

ANDREW G. HOLLINGER won the Area
Director’s Excellence Award in October for
his work as a consultant in IBM’s executive
consulting group.

DR. SCOTT E. RICKOFF has been ap-
pointed to the Florida Board of Podiatric
Medicine. He is certified by the American
Board of Podiatric Surgery and the American
Board of Podiatric Orthopedics. Rickoff lives
in Pensacola, Fla., with his wife, Faye, and
children, Matthew and Dana.

GEORGE M. (TERRY) ROUNDS III is a
project engineer for Digital ‘Transmission
Systems Inc. He and his wife, Carol, have
three daughters, Allison, 10, Hayley, 7, and
Mary Katherine, 1.

JAMES F. SALMONS is president of JFS
Consulting, a company he founded that offers
corporate and peer consulting services in ob-
ject-oriented technology for the high technical
end of the computer industry. Salmons moved
to Lexington, S.C., from California with his
wife, ‘Timlynn Babitsky.

ROBERT J. TAYLOR IV recently completed
his third year with Taylor Consulting Group,
a company he co-founded in 1988 with two
other consultants. Taylor also became presi-
dent and treasurer of Rebound Care Corp. in
November. Rebound Care is a not-for-profit
corporation that owns 32 homes in Tennessee
and provides housing and care to 256 mentally
retarded people in ‘Tennessee. ‘Taylor makes
his home in Atlanta.

THOMAS G. VAN AMBURGH (see W.
LAWRENCE FELLMAN, ’67).

DR. JOHN A. WADE III was recently pro-
moted to associate professor of economics at
Western Carolina University.

GEORGE B. WOLFE, corporate and inter-
national lawyer, was the only attorney out of 35
people from across the Southeast selected to
participate in the Society of International
Business Fellows. The society is composed of
public and private sector executives active in
international business. Wolfe, who practices
law with the South Carolina firm of Nelson,
Mullins, Riley & Scarborough, recently com-
pleted his year as chairman of the Corporation,

Banking, and Securities Law Section of the
South Carolina Bar.

Law: RICHARD V. ANDERSON was re-
cently selected as staff judge advocate, 80th
Division (Training) U.S. Army Reserve. His

52 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

reserve rank is lieutenant colonel. In civilian
life, Anderson is a counsel assigned to the
regional law department of Babcock & Wilcox
Co. He lives in Lynchburg, Va.

Law: LAWRENCEG.COHEN was elected
to the board of trustees of Nishimachi Interna-
tional School in September. He lives in’ Tokyo
with his wife and two daughters, where he is
general counsel of Exxon Japan.

Law: JERRY HENDRICK JR. is a juvenile
and domsetic relations judge for the 12th Judi-
cial District. He and his wife, Julie, live in
Chester, Va., with their three children,
Alexander, 14, David, 11, and Joanna, 8.

14
THE REV. JACK E. AL TMAN

III is an Episcopal priest in the diocese of East
Carolina. His avocation is captain’s apprentice
on a deep sea charter fishing boat and unoffi-
cial chaplain to the Morehead City, N.C., fleet.

PAUL G.CAVALIERE JR. is principal of the
middle school of Plainville (Conn.). Itis anew
100,000-square-foot facility that houses 600
students. Cavaliere lives in Kensington, Conn.

MAJ. DAVID V. FINNELL is serving as the
Operations Officer of the editing staff of the
U.S. Army Publications & Printing Command
in Alexandria, Va. He lives in Alexandria with
his wife, Mary.

DOUGLAS J. NEWELL
was recently named vice
president of analytic con-
sulting for Epsilon Data
Management Inc. Epsilon
is a subsidiary of the
American Express Co.,
specializing in database
driven marketing.

JAMES G. ROGERS became a licensed cer-
tified public accountant in August 1991. He
continues to work as director of planned giving
at Eastern College in St. Davids, Pa. He main-
tains a private accounting tax practice.

WILLIAM R. SPOFFORD III is controller of
the Advanced Separations Division of Air
Products and Chemicals in St. Louis. He is
responsible for all treasury, finance, and ac-
counting functions associated with Air Prod-
ucts’ world-wide, non-cryogenic air separation
equipment business. Spofford and his family
moved to Chesterfield, Mo., in October.

J. TIMOTHY THOMPSON is first vice
president and branch manager of Shearson
Lehman Brothers in Alexandria, Va. He lives
in Alexandria with his wife, Catherine, and
children, John, 14, Cate, 8, and Beth, 3.

 

Law: GREGORY N. STILLMAN recently
became a fellow of the American College of
Trial Lawyers, by invitation of the board of
regents. Stillman isa partner in the Richmond
law firm of Hunton & Williams.

DD

DR. LAWRENCE B. CAHOON,
associate professor of biological sciences at the
University of North Carolina-Wilmington, was
recently appointed tothe North Carolina Ocean
Affairs Council by the governor of North Caro-
lina.

PAUL E. DEVINE is an exploration geologist
with BTA Oil Producers in Denver.

JULIAN T. EVANS III recently formed his
own executive search firm, specializing in the
legal and financial fields.

ROBERT C. FLOYD isa systems consultant
for Unisys Corp. in Atlanta. He lives with his
wife, Betsy, and children, Michael, 5, and
Leslie, 2, in ‘Tucker, Ga.

PAUL J. LANCASTER was named Virginia
Conservation Educator of the Year by the
Virginia Wildlife Foundation. He hosts “Blue
Ridge Nightline,” a public affairs program on
Blue Ridge Public ‘Television in Roanoke.

DR. THOMAS D. LANCASTER is associ-
ate professor of political science at Emory
University in Atlanta. He teaches comparative
political processes and institutions and com-
parative political economy.

W. DAVID LAWSON IV is managing direc-
tor of J.P. Morgan Corp. finance in Melbourne,
Australia. He makes his home in Melbourne
with his wife, Connie, and children, Charlotte,
4, and William, 2.

‘THOMAS O. RAINEY III was recently re-
elected as commonwealth’s attorney for
Dinwiddie County, Va. He is also secretary of
the Petersburg Bar Association, president elect

of the Petersburg Kiwanis Club, and president
of the Southside YMCA.

DAVID P. RIGBY is a vice president and
consulting actuary for W.E. Stanley & Co. He
lives in Winston-Salem, N.C.

WILLIAM W. TERRY III is a lawyer with
a litigation practice in Roanoke, Va., where
he lives with his wife, Leslie, and children
Megan, 7, and William, 6. He has also com-
peted in several triathlons.

STEPHEN C. THIENEL is regional vice
president for the CSX Corp., an international
transportation services company. He is also
adjunct professor of economics at Johns
Hopkins University.

STEVEN W. VAN AMBURGH is president
of Koll Co.’s Texas operations. He joined the
Dallas office of the California-based real estate
company in 1989. Since then, he has devel-
oped two shopping centers, purchased and
leased two industrial buildings, and built Koll’s
property-management operations by acquir-
ing two Dallas companies. The Dallas Business
Journal named Van Amburgh to its 1991 “40
under 40” list of up-and-coming Dallas busi-
ness people under the age of 40.

DR. MONTGOMERY VICKERS is writing
“Chairside,” a humorous column for the Re-
view of Optometry, a professional journal with
the highest circulation of any optometric jour-
nal in North America.

Law: MAJ. JOHN I. McCLURKIN III has
moved to the U.S. Naval Base in Subic Bay,
Philippines, to join his wife, who is executive
officer of the area military sealift command.

Law: W. THOMAS RYDER, assistant floor
leader in the House of Representatives of the
Illinois General Assembly, returned to his
Northern Illinois University alma mater on
Jan. 17, 1992, for a day as a “legislator in
residence.” The program provides members
of the General Assembly with a way to ex-
change views and information with faculty,
staff, and students. Ryder has been a member
of the General Assembly since 1983.

16
DR. ROBERT M. BENDER is a

staff cardiologist in the medical intensive care
unit at Deborah Heart and Lung Center in
New Jersey. He lives in Lancaster, Pa.

MARK R. CHAMBERS is now working for
Plum Creek Timber Co. in St. Maries, Idaho,
as a forestry aide.

DR. CHRIS J. DEMPSHER is practicing as
an associate pathologist and medical director
of transfusion services at Washington County
Hospital. He lives in Hagerstown, Md.

ALAN P. DOZIER is vice president of sales
and marketing for Bausch and Lomb’s phar-
maceutical division. He recently moved from
Los Angeles to Tampa, Fla.

NEIL L. JOHNSON has earned a “Rising
Young Business Leader” award from the
Shreveport, La., Chamber of Commerce. He
and his wife, Rita, who won the award in 1983,
are the first married couple to be so honored.

J. LEE KEIGER III was named a director of
Davenport & Co. of Virginia Inc. in Decem-
ber. Davenport is a New York Stock Exchange
Member investments firm founded in 1863
and headquartered in Richmond.

DR. MICHAEL A. OKIN is associate direc-
torofa family practice residency in Lynchburg,
Va.

P. SHEPHERD ROUSE III is starting the
Rockbridge Winery, which is scheduled to
open in the fall of 1992. He and his wife and
children Elizabeth, Kate, and Parke, are mov-
ing to Rockbridge County, Va., in June.

HUGH J. SISSON V is owner-brewmaster of
Maryland’s first pub brewery, “Sisson’s.” He
lives in Baltimore with his wife and two chil-
dren.

JAMESP. WATSON, senior editor for National
Wildlife and International Wildlife , had an essay
about his brother published in the January
1992 issue of Reader’s Digest.

Law: THOMAS P. O’DELL is rector of St.
John’s Episcopal Church in Roanoke, Va. He
had been serving as associate rector of St.
Francis in the Fields Episcopal Church, lo-
cated outside of Louisville, Ky., since 1987.

Law: THOMAS L. SANSONETTYI, solici-
tor for the Department of Interior, helped
negotiate the $1.1 billion settlement for the
Exxon Va/dex oil spill.

: oe May 7-9

DOUGLASS W. DEWING is branch counsel
for Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation’s
Fredricksburg, Va., office. He was the speaker
at two seminars involving title to real estate.

STEVEN N. GABELMAN is regional sales
manager for ARCO Chemical Co. He moved
to Atlanta with his wife, Amy, son, Barry, 8,
and twin daughters, Rebeccaand Elizabeth, 6.

CARLTON M. HENSON II was recently
elected to the board of directors of St. George
Metals Inc. Henson is the managing partner of
the Atlanta law firm of McAlpin & Henson.

DR. E. CLAIBORNE IRBY JR. practices
orthopedic surgery in Richmond, Va., special-
izing in spine surgery.

JOHN L. JACKLEY is pursuing a master’s
degree in U.S. diplomatic history from Port-
land State University in Portland, Ore. Jackley
had been press secretary for U.S. Representa-
tive Ron Coleman (D-Texas).

WARREN L. JERVEY was promoted to Of
Counsel status by the Chicago-based interna-
tional law firm of Mayer, Brown & Platt. He
has been with the New York office for two
years, specializing in bank and finance law.

DAVID B. JOHNSTON is director of corpo-
rate planning for Lotus Development Corp. in

Cambridge, Mass. He lives in Boston with his
wife, Pattie.

GREG S. WALDEN is in his second year at
the White House, working as associate coun-
sel to the president. He also serves as alternate
designated agency ethics official, under C.
Boyden Gray, counsel to the President.

Law: DEBORAH A. JOHNSON is a vice
president of Humana, a hospital and _insur-
ance company based in Louisville, Ky. She is
in charge of information systems.

‘78
PARKE L. BRADLEY is a vice

president at J.P. Morgan in London. He is
responsible for marketing Securities, ‘Trust
and Information Services to institutional in-
vestors in the United Kingdom and Middle
East. He lives in London with his wife,
Caroline, and children, Alexandra, 6, Thomas,
4, and Charlotte, 2.

RICHARD S. CLEARY is a partner in the law
firm of Greenbaum, Doll & McDonald, which
has offices throughout Kentucky. He is chair-
man of the firm’s labor and employment law
department and is a member of the firm’s
executive committee. He and his wife, Helen,
have two sons, Richard, 4, and Thomas, 2. The
family lives in Louisville, Ky.

RAY S. COFFEY JR. recently opened a 15
acre industrial park near Craigsville, Va. ‘The
park is designed to attract firms involved in
recycling and environmental management.

WALTER GRANRUTH III is director at
Connecticut Capital Advisors in Stamford,
Conn. He lives in Greenwich, Conn., with his
wife and son, William, 1.

ERIK S. GREENBAUM was promoted to
director of military and veterans administra-
tion affairs for Merck, Sharp and Dohme.

THOMAS D. (TIM) HELDMAN is an ac-
countant in Cincinnati, where he lives with his
wife and son, Aaron, 2.

GERALD L. MAATMAN JR. was recently
appointed general counsel of the Chicago
District Golf Association, the governing body
of amateur golf in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan,
and Wisconsin. Maatman is a partner with the
law firm of Baker & McKenzie in its Chicago
office, where he specializes in litigation and
labor law. Maatman also recently competed in
the U.S. Mid-Amateur tournament, where he
finished in the top 100.

ROBERT J. MARVIN JR. completed the
1991 New York City Marathon in two hours,
57 minutes, and 26 seconds. He lives in
Bronxville, N.Y.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 53

JAMES W. McCLINTOCK IV is senior vice
president and chief financial officer of the
investment firm of Keogler, Morgan & Co. He
will be responsible for the firm’s overall finan-
cial management and its _ relationships with
banking, accounting, and insurance firms.
McClintock lives in Atlanta.

RALPH A. MOORE JR. was recently named
a winner of the Washington Post Sixth Annual
Distinguished Educational Leadership award.
He was one of 17 principals to win the princi-
pals of excellence award, and he will be sent by
the Post to an educational conference in the
Virgin Islands this spring

O. WARREN MOWRY JR. is senior assistant
and chief trial attorney for the 13th Circuit
Solicitor’s Office in Greenville, S.C. He re-
cently made his professional theater debut as
the Russian arms negotiator in A Wa/k in the
Woods at the Warehouse Theater. The Ware-
house is South Carolina’s only resident actor’s
equity company.

PETER A. QUINN is director of admissions
at the Peddie School in Hightstown, N.J. He
was named to that position in July 1991.

HENRY C. ROEMER III was recently named
an associate in the law firm of Petree Stockton
& Robinson. Roemer’s practice focuses on
professional malpractice and business litiga-
tion. He works in the firm’s Winston-Salem,
N.C., office and is on the board of the Win-
ston-Salem W&L alumni chapter.

BENJAMIN B. SWAN is the director of the
Pine Island Camp in Maine, one of the oldest
boys camps in the country. Recently, his father
found a postcard in the camp archives that was
dated 1925 and featured a picture of the W&L
Colonnade. ‘The postcard described Lexing-
ton as “one of the most interesting places in
the South,” and further detailed the use of the
honor system by area stores.

DAVID A. TUMEN isa partner with the law
firm of Porter, Wright, Morris and Arthur in
Columbus, Ohio.

Law: JOHN KLINEDINST (see JOHN M.
DURANT, ’90).

Law: STEVEN G. SCHWARTZ is a partner
in the Boca Raton, Fla., law firm of Mattlin &
McClosky.

719
ROBERT M. BALENTINE JR.,

co-founder of Balentine & Co. investment
brokerage, was featured with his father in the
August 1991 issue of Georgia Trend magazine.
‘The two founded Balentine & Co. in 1987,
and since then the firm has grown from four

54 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

employees to 13 employees and more than
$300 million in invested assets.

O. LEE CAVE III recently opened the Lou-
isville office of the law firm of Clark, Ward &
Cave, whose main office is in Lexington, Ky.

FERDINAND B. (WIN) HARRINGTON
is a software engineer at ERA, a division of
E-Systems. He lives in Fredericksburg, Va.

F.CLARK JONES has been named president
of Citizens Independent Bank, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of First Commercial Bank Shares
Inc. Jones lives in Birmingham, Ala.

SHAUN R. LEVESQUE is vice president of
marketing at Baring America Asset Manage-
ment in Boston. He lives in Wrentham, Mass.,
with his wife, Kathleen.

DR. JOHN S. PLOWDEN is an assistant
professor of pediatrics at Emory University.
He has published several papers, and he re-
cently presented an abstract at the American
College of Cardiology annual meeting.

CAPT. JOHN R. SACKS is a contracting
officer with the U.S. Army CECOM, at Fort
Monmouth, N.J. He and his wife, Tina, live in
Eatontown, N.J., with daughters Katie, 7, and
Melanie, 5.

Law: J. 1. VANCE BERRY JR. chairs the
corporate department of the law firm of
Mahoney Adams & Criser, which recently
relocated to the newly-opened Barnett Center
in Jacksonville, Fla. Berry and his wife, Clare,
and son Vance III, 5, make theirhome in Ponte
Vedra Beach, Fla.

Law: PAUL A. DOMINICK recently moved
to Charleston, S.C., to serve as partner- in-
charge of the newly opened Charleston office

of the law firm of Nexsen Pruet Jacobs Pollard
& Robinson.

80
H. HOLCOMBE BAIRD III is

manager of manufacturing and customer ser-
vices for Multifold International. Multifold
manufactures automated packing equipment
for the folding carton industry. Baird and his
wife, Cynthia, live in Cincinnati.

BRIAN ‘T. DOWNS received a doctorate in
quantitative analysis from the University of
Cincinnati in August. He has joined the fac-
ulty of Southern Methodist as assistant profes-
sor of management information systems. He
and his wife, Lisa, live in Dallas.

ANGUS E. FINNEY recently formed a part-
nership with another attorney to begin their
own firm. Finney & Baer, located in Towson,
Md., specializes in civil and bankruptcy litiga-

tion, federal and state taxation, business plan-
ning, and commercial transactions.

MICHAEL J. FOLEY was recently elected to
the board of governors of the Pennsylvania
‘Trial Lawyers Association. Foley is a partner
in the Scranton-based firm of Foley, McLane,
Nealon, Foley & McDonald. He and his wife,
Karen, live in Greenwood, Pa.

NORRIS L. LAFFITTE is president of
Hampton & Branchville Railroad, a member
of the board of directors of American Short
Line Railroad Association, and a co-chairman
of the Hampton County Watermelon Festival,
He lives in Hampton, S.C.

KEITH J. MacMILLAN is an inventory man-
agement specialist for the Navy Ships Parts
Control Center in Mechanicsburg, Pa. He and
his wife have two children, Kara and Kyle.

MICHAEL J. MRLIK II was recently pro-
moted to regional manager of new concepts for
Fair Lanes Inc. He lives in Arlington, Va.

DOUGLAS A. PECKHAM is managing di-
rector of Culver Pictures. He recently received
a master’s degree from New York University.

RICHARD H. SCHOENFELD was recently
elected presidentof InterVest, a financial coun-
seling firm in Bethesda, Md. InterVest pro-
vides services to businesses and individuals.

VAIL ‘T. ‘THORNE is practicing environ-
mental law with the firm of King & Spalding in
Washington, D.C.

JOHN C. (JACK) WILLHITE makes his
home in Richmond, Va., with his wife, Sabra,
and son, Carnes Harper, 1.

Law: MARK K. FLYNN was elected presi-
dent of the Local Government Attorneys of
Virginia at the September 1991 meeting. He is
the city attorney for Winchester.

Law: WARREN L. JERVEY (see ’77).

Law: MARK R. SMITH is international legal
counsel for Amoseas Indonesia Inc. He and his
wife, Laurie, live in Jakarta, Indonesia.

‘Sl
HOMER A. C. BLISS is an attor-

ney in Jacksonville, Fla. He and his wife,
Cathryn, and daughters, Lilly, and Maryanna
live in Jacksonville.

SAMUEL H. CAMPBELL IV lives on Look-
out Mountain, Tenn., with his wife, Carol, and
daughters, Elizabeth, 6, and Caroline, 3.

R. CHRISTOPHER GAMMON is a vice
president of Wachovia Bank of North Caro-
lina. He is an account officer in Wachovia’s

 

 

Charlotte-Mecklenburg corporate banking
group. Gammon lives in Charlotte with his
wife, Ruth, and daughter, Sydnor, 3.

CAPT. L. HOLMES GINN IV works for
Craigie Inc. in Richmond, Va. He lives there
with his wife, Kimberly, and children, L.
Holmes V and Virginia.

STUART A. MASON works for the Port Au-
thority of New York and the New Jersey Avia-
tion Department.

PEREGRINE ROBERTS is vice president
in commercial sales and leasing with the Carey
Winston Co., a regional commercial real estate
firm based in Chevy Chase, Md. Roberts lives
in Washington, D.C.

CHARLES J. VAN HORN lives in New Or-
leans with his wife, Kathleen, and children,
Katie, 7, and James, 4.

Law: PHILIP D. CALDERONE has been
promoted to vice president and associate gen-
eral counsel at Banfi Vinters, an international
wine importer and vinter of fine wine from
Italy. He and his wife, Anne, live in St. James,
N.Y., with their three sons.

Law: BUCKNER P. WELLFORD is a part-
ner in the Memphis, Tenn., law firm of
Thomason, Hendrix & Associates. He lives in
Memphis with his wife, Sara.

S$? May 7-9

HENRY B. CLAY is publisher of Co/umbia
(S.C.) Metropolitan Magazine.

CAPT. DON JUAN DUDLEY assumed com-
mand of B Company, Ist Battalion, of the 501st
Aviation Regiment in September. He is sta-
tioned in Camp Humphreys, Korea.

BARRY R. DUNN is an assistant vice presi-
dent in the structured finance group of Bank of
America. He lives in New York City.

DR. F. BRIAN GIBSON is doing a facial
plastic surgery fellowship through Indiana
University. He, his wife, Mary, and children,
Taylor, 4, and Andrew, 1, live in Carmel, Ind.

JOHN R. GUEST is an attorney in Houston,
where he lives with his wife and son.

TIMOTHY R. HARRIS became principal in
charge of general accounting and emerging
business sectors of the certified public ac-
counting firm of Adams, Akin, Harris & Hardy,
P.C., when his firm merged with another Rich-
mond, Va., firm in November.

CAPT. ANTHONY R. IERARDI was re-
cently selected as a U.S. Army Foreign Area
Officer. He completed language training in

Spanish at the Defense Language Institute.
He is attending Georgetown University. He
will serve in Mexico City in late 1993.

CAPT. DOUGLAS R. LINTON III was
awarded the Bronze Star medal for service
during the Gulf War. He is in the U.S. Army,
stationed in Germany.

WILLIAM R. PARKS JR. started Virginia
Video Leasing Inc., a company that handles
the financial needs of small and medium sized
video businesses. He lives in Falls Church, Va.

C. HALL VETTERLEIN JR. is vice presi-
dent of American Brokerage Corp., a subsid-
iary of Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Co. He
lives in Havertown, Pa., with his wife, Sherry.

DANIEL L. WEISS is senior manager at
Price Waterhouse in Washington, D.C. He
works in the Financial Services Regulatory
Advisory Group, consulting with banks and
thrifts on a wide range of issues. He also
occasionally lectures at George Washington
University’s economics department.

Law: JOHNATHAN W. BRYAN works in
the law firm of Bryan, Bahnmuller, King,
Goldman and McElveen in Sumter, S.C.

Law: WILLIAM C. NICHOLSON is an
associate with the Washington, D.C., law firm
Rivkin, Radler, Bayh, Hart & Kremer.

Law: RICHARD NIKONOVICH-KAHN
was recently appointed vice president and
general counsel for Heery International, an
Atlanta-based design, engineering and con-
struction program management firm. He joined
the firm’s legal department in 1989.

Law: LIZANNE THOMAS is a partner in
the law firm of Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue.
She lives in Atlanta with her husband, DAVID
BLACK, 82L, and sons Roger, 3, and Riley, 1.
Black was recently promoted to managing
editor of the Atlanta Business Chronicle.

83
SCOTT S. BOND is a paper bro-

ker with Bulkley Dunton. He is selling to
magazine publishers, advertising agencies,
and commercial printers in New York, Wash-
ington, Atlanta, Detroit, and Los Angeles. He
and his wife, Patty, live in Croton-on-Hudson,
N.Y.

ROBERT S. CARPENTER is vice president
of sales and marketing for Price Modern Inc.
He lives in Ruxton, Md.

STEPHEN H. DENNY is a product manager
for Sony of America in Park Ridge, N.J. He
lives in Westwood.

CAPT. KEITH E. GORETZKA was ordained
to serve as a Southern Baptist minister in
Louisville, Ky., on Sept. 4, 1991. He is cur-
rently serving as a minister of youth in
Elizabethtown, N.Y.

MICHAEL M. GREGORY has been work-
ing as a project director for Archaeological
Research Services Inc. in Tempe, Ariz. He
attends Arizona State University and is pursu-
ing a doctorate in anthropology.

GEORGE MACKEY GRIMBALL JR. is as-
sistant hospital director of the Medical Col-
lege of Georgia Hospital and Clinics. He makes
his home in Augusta.

DAVID W. HADDOCK has moved to New
York from Memphis, Tenn., in order to estab-
lish a real estate management and investment
company. He also deals with restaurant leas-
ing and consulting.

ISRAEL K. REDD III is a marketing special-
ist with Chesapeake Wood ‘Treating Co. He
and his wife, Anita, and daughter, Jessica, 2,
live in West Point, Va.

‘THOMAS R. ‘THOMAS works for Barclay
Bank in New York City.

Law: JEFFREY M. CAREY was recently
named partner in the Chicago-based interna-
tional law firm of Mayer, Brown & Platt. Carey,
who has been with the Chicago office for five
years, was one of nine new partners named. He
specializes in labor law.

Law: WILLIAM T. JOHNSON is a share-
holder in the Houston office of the Dallas-
based law firm of Winstead Sechrest & Minick,
P.C. He is currently seconded to the Dubai,
United Arab Emirates, office of the London-
based legal consultancy of T'rowers & Hamlins.
Johnson currently lives in Dubai.

Law: LINDA A. KLEIN chairs the Trial
‘Techniques Committee of the ‘Tort and In-
surance Practice Section of the American Bar
Association. She previously served as vice-
chair and newsletter editor of the same com-
mittee. Klein is a partner in the law firm of
Martin, Cavan and Anderson in Atlanta.

Law: MICHAEL E. NOGAY recently com-
pleted a two-year term as secretary of the West
Virginia State Ethics Commission. He was
appointed to the commission by Gov. Gaston
Caperton. Nogay lives in Weirton.

S4
JACK L. GOLDSMITH III is a

legal assistant at the Iran-U.S. Claims Tribu-
nal in the Hague, Netherlands. He finished his
clerkship with Associate Justice Anthony
Kennedy of the U.S. Supreme Court in July.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 55

JOSHUA M. HELTZER is pursuing a
master’s of science degree in hazardous mate-
rials management at Tufts University. He
expects to graduate this summer.

DAVID C. JUDGE is a corporate lending
officer and assistant vice president with The
Bank of New York. He is also currently attend-
ing the executive master of business adminis-
tration program in finance at New York Uni-
versity. He lives in Summit, N.].

JEFFREY W. KNAPP rode his bike from
Oregon to Montana, through the cold and
snow, during a nine-day trip in May.

STEPHEN W. LEMON is an associate with
the Roanoke, Va., law firm of Martin Hopkins
Lemon & Edwards.

ANGUS M. McBRYDE III is in his seventh
year of corporate banking at First Union
National Bank in Charlotte, N.C.

DANIEL L. MURPHEY was elected to the
board of directors of the investment firm of
Hambrecht & Quist in February 1991.
Murphey is president of Murphey Capital
Inc., a private investment firm in Tampa, Fla.

MICHAEL S. WYATT graduated from the
University of Dallas master’s of business pro-
gram in December.

Law: CHARLES H. BINGER was recently
made partner with the St. Louis law firm of
‘Thompson & Mitchell. His primary area of
practice is federal taxation.

Law: DAVID J. HANSEN works for CIGNA
in the employee benefits division, which es-
tablished a regional headquarters in Nashville,
Tenn. He practices in the areas of insurance
and managed care. Hansen and his wife, Anne,
and daughters, Eleanor, 2, and Elise, 1, live in
Brentwood, Tenn.

Law: J. RANDALL MINCHEW isa partner
at the law office of Hazel & Thomas, main-
taining offices in Leesburg and Fairfax, Va. He
is alsoan adjunct professor of law at the George
Mason University School of Law.

SS
DR. JEFFREY D. DIXON is a

third-year resident at the Oklahoma Medical
Center in Oklahoma City.

MICHAEL W. HUDSON, reporter for the
Roanoke Times © World News, was one of six
journalists selected for an Alicia Patterson
Foundation grant. He will spend his fellow-
ship year writing articles on businesses that
target low-income Americans. The articles will
appear in the APF Reporter, a quarterly maga-
zine published by the foundation.

56 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

CAPT. DANIEL M. JAYNE is a physical
therapist and captain in the U.S. Army. He is
the chief of a clinic in Mannheim, Germany.
He and his wife, Lisa-Marie, have been
sightseeing throughout Europe.

TODD JONES (see JOHN DURANT, ’90).

‘THOMAS N. McKINSTRY is vice president
in Wachovia Bank’s International Banking
Group. McKinstry, who earned a master’s de-
gree from the University of North Carolina in
August, lives in London with his wife, Pamela.
The couple was married in September, in

Greensboro, N.C.

MARC F. MONYEK is manager of interna-
tional finance for McDonald’s Corp. and chair-
man of the Chicago Alumni Admissions Pro-
gram for W&L.

CLARKE H. MORLEDGE is working for
UNISYS atthe NASA/Langley Research Cen-
ter in Hampton, Va., as a network analyst and
systems programmer. He is also the chairman
of the Young Life Adult committee in
Williamsburg, Va.

BRIAN P. O’RIORDAN is lighting director
and stage manager for the Vaudeville Express
Melodrama Theater in Bakersfield, Calif.

WARREN M. WILSON isa graduate student
in anthropology at the University of Colorado.
He is teaching undergraduate anthropology.

Law: THOMAS M. BUTLER finished his
term as president of Pegasus Players Theater
Group Inc., of Frankfort, Ky., in June 1991. He
was elected to the organization’s board of
directors, and he chairs the legal committee.

Law: JILL FAUSTINI was recently re-
elected to the board of directors for the Hous-
ton Young Lawyers Association. She has joined
the law firm of Davis & Shank, practicing
commercial law.

Law: REBECCA C. MONTE is practicing
law with the firm of Grosse, Rossetti, Chelus
and Herdzik, P.C., where she specializes in
estate planning and administration. She lives
with her husband and their daughter, Sarah

Katherine, 2, in Buffalo, N.Y.

Law: JOHN C. MORROW was recently
named a partner at the Birmingham, Ala., law
firm of Burr & Forman.

Law: RAYMOND E. RUHLMANN III lives
in Rochester, N.Y., with his wife, DANDREA
MILLER RUHLMANN, ’87L. They were
married on Dec. 29, 1990.

Law: F. MIKE SHAFFER has been named a
partner in the Northwest law firm of Gordon,
‘Thomas, Honeywell, Malanca, Peterson &

Daheim. Shaffer has been with the firm since
1989. He will work in the firm’s ‘Tacoma,
Wash., office, concentrating on civil litigation
with a focus on product liability and personal
injury matters, securities litigation, and immi-
gration law.

tole
W. WATSON BARNES JR. is fi-

nance manager for Wilson Petroleum Co., Inc.,
a family business. He is also president of the
local unit of the American Cancer Society. He
lives in Wilson, N.C.

WESLEY C. BOATWRIGHT is a second-
year M.B.A. studentat William and Mary. He
also works as a recruiter for Sloan and Assoc. in
the consumer package goods industry.

JONATHAN L. ELDER was promoted to
tax manager for Price Waterhouse in July 1991.
He lives in Dunwoody, Ga., with his wife,
Helen, and daughter, Anne, 2.

EARL W. GLAZIER III is a photographer at
KOAT-TYV in Albuquerque, N.M.

WILLIAM R. HEMPHILL JR. graduated
from Southern Methodist University School
of Law in May. He is an associate with the law
firm of Jenkens and Gilchrist in Austin, Texas.

WILLIAM F. JONES JR. and partner Kevin
Robke recently formed Terra Systems, an
environmentally-sound lawn care company in
Charlotte, N.C.

KENNETH L. LINDEMAN is working for
JDI International in Hickory, N.C.

ANTHONY D. McCANN is a corporate bond
salesman with Lehman Brothers in New York.
He and his wife, Mary, live in New York City.

STEPHEN W. McGRATH has spent the last
several months traveling the South Pacific. He
visited Fiji, New Zealand, and Australia.
Among his activities during these trips have
been bungee jumping, sky diving, and diving
in the Great Barrier Reef. McGrath currently
lives in Hawaii.

‘TIMOTHY M. RICHARDSON is taking ac-
cordion lessons in the hope of becoming a
professional musician.

ANDREW P. SHAFFER is pursuing a doc-
torate in veterinary medicine from the Vir-
ginia-Maryland Regional College of Veteri-
nary Medicine in Blacksburg, Va.

Law: KAREN DAVIS CUNNINGHAM is
listed in in the 1992 edition of Who’s Who Among
Rising Young Americans. She is assistant profes-
sor of peace and conflict studies at Kent State
University.

 

 

Law: DOUGLAS L. LAWING is taking
time off from the practice of law and is skiing
in Aspen, Colo.

Law: W. FLETCHER McCLINTOCK has
been named president and chairman of Spe-
cialized Pension Administrators Inc.,an ERISA
consulting firm with practices in New York,
Dallas, Houston, and La Jolla, Calif.

Law: JOHN L. J.R.) RADDER is a founding
shareholder and managing partner of the 20
person law firm of Dann Greenberg Radder.
The firm has a national practice in construc-
tion and government contracts law. Radder
lives in Lynnwood, Wash.

Law: BARBARA MORRIS ZOCCOLA is
an assistant U.S. attorney in Memphis, ‘Tenn.

? 8 oe May 7-9

KEVIN ‘T. ANDERSON was awarded the
designation of Chartered Financial Analyst by
the trustees of the Institute of Chartered Fi-
nancial Analysts.

JAMES H. BARKER III is an attorney with
the Washington, D.C., law firm of Latham &
Watkins. He had been clerking with the 11th
Circuit Court of Appeals in Miami. He lives in
Alexandria, Va.

DAVID N. BARNES is an associate with the
St. Louis law firm of Lewis, Rice & Fingersh.
He received a law degree from Washington
University law school in 1991.

ROBERT Q. BERLIN has left Dean Witter
Investment Banking in New York to join
Comann, Howard & Flamen, a leveraged
buyout group based in Menlo Park, Calif.

DR. JOHN R. CARDER graduated from the
Medical College of Virginia in May 1991. He is
in residency at Shands Hospital at the Univer-
sity of Florida.

CHRISTOPHER R. CARTER teaches En-
glish and Latin at Charlotte Latin School in
Charlotte, N.C.

ANDREW R. CARUTHERS is working for
Triad Artists Inc. in Los Angeles.

WILLIAM R. HARBISON is an associate in
the law firm of Nelson, Mullins, Riley and
Scarborough in Columbia, S.C.

DAVID W. HOWARD is a supervisor at the
Hyatt Regency Grand Cypress in Orlando,
Fla. He also invests in real estate, owning a
house and a condominium.

GILBERT R. LADD IV is doing his resi-
dency in psychiatry at the University of Ala-
bama in Birmingham.

ROBY D. MIZE JR. is pursuing a master’s
degree in business administration from the
University of ‘Texas.

BRUCE A. REED is the manager of new
accounts and credit authorization forthe credit
department at Hecht’s in Silver Spring, Md.
He lives in Reston, Va.

STEVEN D. (SKIP) SANDLER is an associ-
ate with the law firm of Fowler, White, Burnett,
Hurley, Banick and Strickroot in Miami. He
specializes in securities litigation.

N. TURNER SIMKINS is marketing direc-
tor for Jack Nicklaus Development Corp. of
Southern California at Bear Creek Golf Club
in Murrieta, Calif.

‘THOMAS W. ‘THAGARD IIL is an associate
with the Birmingham, Ala., law firm of
Maynard, Cooper, Frierson & Gale, P.C. His
practice area is general litigation.

ROBERT A. VIENNAU (see JOHN M.
DURANT, ’90).

RUSSELL W. WHITMAN III sailed to a
second place overall finish in the 1991 Pine
Beach Yacht Club Cat Boat Regatta in Sep-
tember. He and his wife, Lesley, are active in
the Barnegat Bay Watch Group, a group that
monitors the overall condition of the bay. The
couple lives in Beachwood, N.].

Law: ANDREW JAMES HARMON is an
attorney with the Los Angeles law firm of
Kinsella, Boesch, Fujikawa & ‘Towle.

Law: JAMES N.L. HUMPHREYS (see ’84).

Law: DANDREA MILLER RUHLMANN
(see RAYMOND E. RUHLMANN, ’85L).

88
E.G. ALLEN III is clerking for

the Hon. Richard B. Kellam, Federal District
Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia in
Norfolk, Va. Allen graduated from the School
of Law at William and Mary in May 1991.

DAVID M. ATKINSON is an attorney in
Atlanta, where he makes his home, as well.

HOBART P. BAUHAN works in the legisla-
tive department for Congressman George
Allen. Bauhan lives in Alexandria, Va.

W.SEAN COYLE graduated from Oklahoma
City University law school in May 1991. He
was admitted to the Oklahoma Bar in Septem-
ber, and now works for Henry S. Miller, Gruff
& Ellis, acommercial real estate corporation in
Fort Worth, ‘Texas.

IST LT. DARRIN DENNY is the weapons
platoon commander for Special Purpose Force

UNITAS in the U.S. Marine Corps. His unit is
stationed in West Africa.

MATTHEW E. DIEMER is working as an
independent manufacturers agent for Diemer
Associates. His territory includes North Caro-
lina, Virginia, Tennessee, southern Maryland,
and Washington, D.C.

WILLIAM G. DuBOSE II is working in the
mortgage banking wing of Chase Manhattan
Bank. He has been with B.F. Saul Mortgage
Co. for three years. DuBose makes his home in
Chevy Chase, Md.

ERICH J. FABER has
joined the Smith Moun-
tain Lake, Va., office of
Sawyer & Co. as senior
accountant. Prior to join-
ing Sawyer & Co., Faber
was a senior accountant
with Young & Prickett,
CPAs in Roanoke.

 

CHRISTOPHER R. GAREIS is pursuing a
master’s degree in English education at Wil-
liam and Mary.

MICHAEL G. HERRIN is teaching history
at Valdosta High School in Valdosta, Ga.

ROBERT B. JONES will graduate from Mis-
sissippi College School of Law in May.

CRAIG M. KEANNA is completing his third
year of medical school at the SUNY-Down-
state School of Medicine in Brooklyn, N.Y.

WILLIAM G. LONDREY is director of Fox
and Associates’ office in Richmond, Va. Fox
and Associates is a real estate auction and asset
appraisal and liquidation company based in
Virginia Beach, Va.

J. EDWARD NEWTON JR. is in commercial
lending for NationsBank in ‘Tampa, Fla.

WILLIAM G. PAYNE is attending the Kellogg
Graduate School of Management at North-
western University. He had spent the last
three years working for Arthur Andersen &
Co. in Atlanta.

J. BAXTER SHARP III was recently elected
to the board of The Merchants & Planters
Bank in Clarendon, Ark. Sharp is an attorney
with the law firm of Sharp & Sharp, P.A. He
lives in Brinkley, Ark.

JAMES A. SOWERSBY received a master’s
degree in business administration from Rollins
College. He is a consultant with ORS Associ-
ates in McLean, Va.

DAVID W. WEAVER has received a master’s
of business administration degree from Wil-

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 57

liam and Mary. He currently works asa finan-
cial and operations analyst with Great Atlantic
Management in Hampton, Va.

ANDREW W. WHITE graduated from the
University of Virginia law school last year. He
is an associate with the law firm of Rust, Rust
& Silver in Fairfax, Va., where he and his wife,
Jill, make their home.

JAMESS. WILLIAMS isa first-year associate
with the law firm of Sirote & Permutt, in
Birmingham, Ala. He is a member of their
litigation department.

W. BRANDT WOOD is vice president of
Wood Marine in New Orleans, La. The com-
pany performs dredging and other port devel-
opment services. Wood also owns and oper-
ates three Dallas nightclubs with his brother.

89
EMILY C. BEVILL was recently

promoted to senior accountant at Deloitte &
‘Touche in New York City.

DANA J. BOLDEN is a speechwriter for the
commissioner of the Georgia Department of
Labor. He lives in Atlanta.

CAROLINE E. BOONE is a bank officer in
the executive and professional group at
BankOne in Houston.

IAN P. BOTTOMLEY received a master’s
degree from Southern Methodist University
and is now working in Moscow fora private oil
and gas company from Oklahoma City.

LEE D. BRADING recently received his
certified public accountant’s license, and was
promoted to senior accountant at BDO
Seidman, an accounting and consulting firm.
He and his wife, TRACY WILLIAMS
BRADING, ’89, live in Stone Mountain, Ga.

CHRISTOPHER L. CALLAS is finishing
his final year of law school at Vanderbilt Uni-
versity. He plans to be working as an attorney
with the law firm of Jackson & Kelly at
Morgantown, W.Va.

A. CATHERINE CHRISTIAN is working
towards a master’s degree in historic preserva-
tion at the University of Georgia at Athens.

STEPHANIE M. COLEMAN is attending
Marshall Wythe Law School at the College of
William and Mary. She will be working for
Columbia Natural Resources and Columbia
‘Transmission Cos. in Charleston, W.Va.

ERIN C. COSBY is pursuing a master’s de-
gree in business administration from Duke
University, with a concentration in marketing.

She is also the alumni admissions chairperson
for Raleigh/Durham.

58 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

RHONA M. HUGHES is an investment ana-
lyst at IT’. Rowe Price in Baltimore.

MICHAEL C. JONES was recently promoted
to legislative director for U.S. Congressman
Doug Barnard (D-Ga.). Jones, who had been a
legislative assistant for Barnard, will continue
to handle defense, foreign affairs, commerce,
and tax issues.

JAMES A. LINZA JR. has been working as a
paralegal fora Northern Virginia law firm and
the U.S. Department of Justice since gradua-
tion. Also, he coaches high school baseball. His
teams have compiled a record of 62-11 and
won four conference titles.

EDWARD D. LUDWIG is studying at Lou-
isville Presbyterian Seminary. Last year, he
worked as a student pastor for a church in
Oxford, Pa., and now he is serving as'pastor for
a church in Kentucky.

JULIA C. SHEPPARD is in her final year of
law school at the University of Virginia. She
will be moving to Memphis, Tenn., in May to
take the ‘Tennessee bar exam. She will also
beginaclerkship with the Hon. Jon McCalla of
the U.S. District Court for the Western Dis-
trict of Tennessee.

EDWARD G. (NED) SPENCER is pursuing
a master’s in architecture at Virginia Tech.

GREGORY D. WILLIAMS is currently en-
rolled in the graduate program in the School of
Fisheries and Oceanography at the University
of Washington in Seattle.

IST LT. STEVEN R. ZAHN has been pro-
moted to first lieutenant in the U.S. Army He
is executive officer of an anti-tank company.

Law: MARK R. BOYES, of Houston, is an
associate general counsel of Prime Network/
Home Sports Entertainment, an owner and
operator of television sports networks.

Law: THERESA A. CALDARONE is an
associate with the law firm of Chorches &
Novak. She lives in Waterbury, Conn.

90
CHARLES J. AMENO is a sales

representative with Berlow Real Estate in
Buffalo, N.Y. He returned last summer from
six months of traveling in the South Pacific.

REBECCA K. BRANDT is in her second
year of law school at Rutgers University and
is working part time at the firm of Green,
Lundgren & Ryan in Haddonfield, N.]J.

GRATTAN T. BROWN is a waiter in Mem-
phis, ‘Tenn. He is looking for a job in interna-
tional business, and enjoys being a member of
a French club in Memphis.

JAMES 'T. BUSENLENER is in his second
year at Tulane law school in New Orleans.

JOHN M. DURANT is firm administrator
with the San Diego law firm of Klinedinst &
Fliehman. Other alumni working at the firm
include: JOHN KLINEDINST, °71, ’78L;
TODD JONES, ’85; ROB VIENNEAU,
’87, °90L; and JAMES CASEY, ’91.

ANTHONY J. FRANK JR. is a second-year
medical student at Eastern Virginia Medical
School in Norfolk, Va.

DEBORAH L. GROVE is in her first year as
assistant sports information director at the
University of Alaska-Anchorage.

RACHEL R. JACKSON works at the U.S,
Embassy in Mexico City in the Foreign Com-
mercial Section.

STEPHEN S. MATTINGLY has joined the
Washington, D.C., office of Kenan Systems
Corp., a software firm specializing in artificial
intelligence and emerging technologies.

D. SCOTT RICHARDSON entered the
Johns Hopkins University business master’s
program in January.

CLINTON S. ROBINSON has been pro-
moted to legislative assistant in the office of
U.S. Representative Doug Barnard of Georgia.

JONATHAN E. RYAN was recently pro-
moted to writer for CNN Headline News.

MARY K.C. (CAMMIE) SEYMOUR is work-
ing toward a master’s degree in international
business at the University of South Carolina.
In June, she will begin an internship with
Michelin in France.

‘THOMAS J. SHEEHAN JR. is an analyst for
SunTrust Corporate Finance in Atlanta.

STACEY L. SIM is working as an assistant
buyer for Neiman Marcus in Dallas.

KELLY SHIFFLETT SIMPSON is pursu-
ing a doctorate in developmental psychology
at West Virginia University.

ANN STEWART is now managing the Eddie
Bauer store in downtown Boston.

JOHN D. SUTTERLIN III is a medical
student at the University of Kentucky.

DELIA F. (DEEDEE) TRUETT is pursu-
ing a master’s degree in zoology at the Univer-
sity of Tennessee.

Law: WILLIAM A. HARBISON (see ’87).

Law: TIMOTHY A. HODGE JR. is an as-
sociate in the trial department of the Balti-
more law firm of Semmes, Bowen & Semmes.

 

 

Law: BRIAN W. ROBINSON is currently
working as an associate with the law firm of
Hale and Dorr in Boston.

Law: ROBERT A. VIENNAU (see JOHN
M. DURANT, ’90).

01

JOHN T. BUCHANAN works for
Anchor Hocking, a packaging company in
Lancaster, Ohio. He lives in Columbus.

JAMES CASEY (see JOHN DURANT, ’90).

GEORGE L. KARAVIAS is a first-year law
student at the Detroit College of Law.

LOUIS D. KAYE is working in finance for
Walt Disney Co. in Orlando, Fla.

J. ALEXANDER KELL is pursuing a doctor-
ate in cognitive psychology at Georgia Insti-
tute of Technology in Atlanta.

BERNADETTE M. KEMPTON was
awarded a graduate scholarship from Omicron
Delta Kappa, the national leadership honor
society. Kempton is a student at Baylor Col-
lege of Medicine.

STEPHAN N. KORY is teaching English in
Taiwan and sharpening his Chinese.

CHARLES A. MEYER isa sales representa-
tive for McCormick Spices in Hartford, Conn.

KAREN L. MEYERS works for the Florida
Shakespeare Festival. She has stage- managed
Princess Ida and The Last Flapper.

PAIGE P. POWELL is working for Arthur
Andersen & Co. in Washington, D.C.

MARY W. STANTON is living in Arlington,
Va, with classmates ALICIA HAY and ANNE
ARMENTROUT.

EDWARD X. TUNE is working for Kemper
Financial Services in Chicago.

Law: FRANKLIN D. CORDELL is clerking
for The Hon. Emory Widener in Abingdon,
Va.

Law: CATHERINE M. HOBART is an as-
sociate at the Atlanta law firm of Smith, Currie
& Hancock.

Law: DAVID T. PENDERGAST is a brief-
ing attorney for Justice Eugene Cook at the
Supreme Court of Texas. After his term ends
in August 1992, he plans on working in the
Corporate section of the Houston law firm of
Porter & Clements.

Law: ELIZABETH L. WILBOURN works
for Armstrong, Allen, Prewitt, Gentry, Jonston
& Holmes in Memphis, Tenn.

 

 

 

Marriages

 

DR. ROBERT E. (BUZZ) LEE, °41, and
Florence Bush on Sept. 3, 1991. ‘The couple
lives in Black Mountain, N.C., where Lee has
opened a croquet tournament facility, one of
only seven municipal croquetclubs in America.
The couple plays about 10 croquet tourna-
ments a year, according to Lee.

JAMES C. CONNER, ’54, and Karla Edmands
on Sept. 6, 1991. The couple lives in Arlington,
Va. Conner has rejoined the legal department
of the International Finance Corp. of the World
Bank Group after 16 years of private law prac-
tice. He practices in financing private enter-
prise in member countries, primarily Asia and
the Pacific region.

GRAYFRED B. GRAY, ’60, and Melinda
Maddox, on Aug. 10, 1991. The couple lives in
Knoxville, ‘Tenn.

DR. THOMAS C. LEWIS, ’64, and Ann Pugh,
on March 28, 1991, in Nashville, Tenn. Lewis
is an anesthesiologist in Nashville.

DR.PAULC. WEIR, ’72,and Amanda Adams,
on Nov. 26, 1991. The couple makes its home
in Birmingham, Ala.

GATES G. BRELSFORD, ’73, and Dierdra
Cunningham, on Sept. 21, 1991. The couple
lives in Houston, Texas, where Brelsford has
started a corporate communications business.

GEOFFREY S. SHUFF, ’73, and Peggy Jane
Bohn on Jan. 4, 1992, in Mechanicsburg, Pa.
The couple lives in Mechanicsburg, where
Shuff became a partner in the law firm of

Saidis, Guido & Masland on Sept. 3, 1991.

JOHN M. ZAMOISKI, ’74, and Debra
Neuschatz, on June 9, 1991. The couple lives
in Bergenfield, N.J. Zamoiski is senior vice
president of Don Jagoda Associates, a sales
promotion firm.

ROBERT G. MORECOCK, ’75, ’78L, and
Frances H. Camp on Nov. 14, 1991, at Hermit-
age Plantation in the West Indies.

DAVID S. MARTIN, 76, and Elizabeth Evins,
on May 11, 1991. The couple lives in Atlanta.

ELIZABETH TONI GUARINO, °77L, and
Dr. Thomas D. Fiorino on Nov. 12, 1991.
Guarino is vice president and government af-
fairs counsel for the Grocery Manufacturers of

America, a trade association in Washington,
D.C. The couple lives in McLean, Va.

CRAIG F. HAMILTON, ’77, and Susan ‘Tan-
ner on June 1, 1991. The couple lives in Ponte

Vedra Beach, Fla. Hamilton is manager of
corporate finance for AT&T Universal Card
Services in Jacksonville, Fla.

DR. JOHN F.' TOMPKINS II, 78, and Mich-
elle McGowan, on Nov. 30, 1991. The couple
lives in Oklahoma City, where Tompkins has
a practice in orthopedic surgery with his father.

MARK M. SUBER,’81, and Tamara L. Ellis,
on April 27, 1991. The wedding party included
classmate J. Russ Germano, Drew Pillsbury,
’80, and Jesse Suber, ’80. ‘The couple lives in
‘Tallahassee, Fla.

WILLIAM ‘TT. COCKE IV, °82, and Anne
Langhorne Keith, on Nov. 9, 1991, in Alexan-
dria, Va. W&L alumni in the wedding party
included Tom Cocke, ’84; Ben Hale, ’85; Earl
McClanahan, ’82; William Brown, °82; and
Mark Jenkins, ’83. The couple lives in Lex-
ington, Va., where Cocke is a communications
writer for Washington and Lee University.

DR. SCOTT T. HOWELL, °82, and Ann
Taylor, on May 18, 1991, in Edenton, N.C.
The couple lives in Durham, N.C., where
Howell works in pharmaceutical development.

USHER T. WINSLETT III, ’82, and Shari
Kushner, on May 26, 1991. The couple lives in
New York City, where Winslett is an attorney
with the firm of Thatcher, Proffitt & Wood.

THOMAS E. BAKER JR., ’83, ’87L, and
LAURA A. MISNER, ’87L, on Oct. 26, 1991,
in Chatham, N.J. The wedding party included
Fred Rindge, ’83, and Lisa Sullivan, ’87L. The
couple lives in Corpus Christi, ‘Texas, where
the groom practices labor and employment
law and the bride practices bankruptcy law.

WILLIAM W. BROOM JR., ’83, and Andi
Carmichael, on May 26, 1991, in Aspen, Colo.
The wedding party included Andrew Backus,
83; Randall Thomas, ’83; and David Favrot,
82. The couple lives in Baltimore, where
Broom is a reporter for WMAR-TYV.

TIMOTHY J. ELFERING, ’83, and
Catherine Guy, on Aug. 19, 1991, in Rapid
City, S.D. The couple lives in Renton, Wash.

JOHN M. McGARRY, ’83L, and Heidi Henkel
on June 29, 1991, in Grosse Pointe, Mich. The
wedding party included Matthew Kimball,
°83L, and Raymond Ruhlman, ’85L. The
couple lives in Chicago.

DOLORES M. SCHMITT, ’84L, and Ed-
ward Lee Farmer, on Aug. 31, 1991, in Salem,
Va. The couple lives in Salem.

CAPT. DAVID D. BRANSCOM, ’85, and
Kimberlee Murphy, on Oct. 5, 1991, in North
Conway, N.H. The wedding party included
Capt. Gregory Lukanuski, ’85. ‘The couple
lives in Elizabethtown, Ky.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 59

JANNA P. JOHNSON, ’86L, and Robert S.
Cummings on June 15, 1991. The couple lives
in Great Neck, N.Y.

JOHN M. FRI'TSCHE, ’86, and Mary Caroline
Avera on Sept. 21, 1991. The couple lives in
Alexandria, Va. Fritsche is a tax attorney with
Arthur Andersen in Washington, D.C.

JULIAN HENNIG III, ’86, and Sarah Waites,
on June 15, 1991. The couple makes its home
in Columbia, S.C.

WILLIAM H. KINGIII,’86, and Dolly Kavass
on Aug. 24, 1991, in Nashville, ‘Tenn. The
wedding party included Rob McCullough,
’86, and Stewart Speed, ’86. The couple lives
in Birmingham, Ala., where the groom is an
associate with the law firm of Lightfoot,

Franklin, White & Lucas.

WILLIAM A. MICHAUD, ’86, and Kaitlyn
Jones on Dec. 31, 1991. The couple lives in
‘Timonium, Md.

ROBERT J. WHANN IV, ’86, and Leah Abide
on Jan. 25, 1992, in Greenville, Miss. W&L
alumni in the wedding party included Caulley
Deringer, ’86; John Henschel, ’86; Cole
Dawson, ’85; Charles Stern, ’85; Robert Young,
*85; Cove Geary, ’80; Steve Geary, °83; and
Jerry Baird, ’78. The couple lives in New
Orleans, where Whann is vice president of
G.H. Leidenheimer Baking Co.

CHARLENE W. CHRISTOFILIS, ’87L,
and David A. Geffen, on Dec. 28, 1991, in New
York City. The couple lives in New York City.

DONALD L. McCOY, ’87, and Deborah
Marie Carter, on May 25, 1991. The groom,
who graduated from the University of Denver
law school on May 11, 1991, works for the
MeNairlaw firm in Columbia, S.C. The couple
lives in Irmo, S.C.

LAURA A. MISNER, ’87L (see THOMAS
E. BAKER, ’83, ’87L).

JOHN P. BAEHR, ’88, and Kimberly Rhea,
on Nov. 9, 1991.

WADE M. HAMPTON, ’88, and Kathyrn
North on Dec. 14, 1991.’The couple makes its
home in Jacksonville, Fla.

GREGG W. KETTLES, ’88, and LORENA
MANRIQUEZ, ’88, on May 24, 1991, in Lee
Chapel. The couple lives in San Diego, where
the groom is a law clerk to Chief Judge J.
Clifford Wallace of the U.S. 9th Circuit Court
of Appeals and the bride is an engineer for
Woodward-Clyde Consultants.

DOUGLAS A. ROBERTSON, ’88L, and
Tracey E. Fern, on Sept. 7, 1991. The couple
makes its home in Boston, where Robertson is

60 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

a lawyer with the firm of Martin, Magnuson,
McCarthy & Kenney.

J. PATRICK DARBY, ’89L, and Caroline O.
Roberts, on Oct. 26, 1991. The couple lives in
Birmingham, Ala.

RICHARD P. JAMES JR., ’89, and Cynthia
Louise Coleman on June 22, 1991, in Amelia,
Va. The wedding party included Vance E.
Drawdy, ’89, ’92L, Joel E. Miller, ’89, and Dirk
Van Assendelft, "90. The couple lives in
Germantown, Md., where James is a third-
year medical student at the Uniformed Ser-
vices University of the Health Sciences.

SAMUEL H. McLANE, ’89, and Candace
Upson, on Nov. 23, 1991. The wedding party
included classmate John Pipkin, Steve Davis,
90, and ‘Tom Hamilton, 90. McLane is cur-
rently working on his doctorate in mathemat-
icsat Temple University in Philadelphia. They
live in Blue Bell, Pa.

W. LEE NORTON, ’89, and Caroline F.
Spriggs on Sept. 14, 1991, in Lynchburg, Va.
Classmates Christian Blessey, Peter Sackett,
and Jeff Kelsey were members of the wedding
party. The couple lives in Norfolk, Va.

BURGESS A. (TOMMY) THOMASSON
JR., °89, and Lori M. McLaughlin on June 1,
1991. The couple lives in Mobile, Ala., where
‘Thomasson works as a financial consultant for
Merrill Lynch.

HOLLY GOODING, ’90, and Cenk Oran,
on June 1, 1991, at Lexington Presbyterian
Church. The wedding party included Christy
Meredith, ’90, Jennifer Miller, 93, and Jen-
nifer Carr, 93. ‘The couple makes its home in
Staunton, Va.

FREDERICK B. KIECKHEFER, ’90, and
Deanna Dawn Thielen on Jan. 18, 1992, in
Alexandria, Va. ‘The wedding party included
classmates David Olson, Adam Morgan, and
‘Tom Hayes. The couple lives in Vienna, Va.,
where Kieckhefer is a finance executive with
Hecht’s Division of the May Company.

J. STEVEN PATTERSON, ’90L, and Jen-
nifer Hayden on Aug. 24, 1991. The couple
lives in Norfolk, Va., where Patterson works
for the law firm of Willcox & Savage, as an
associate in the business practice group.

HARLAN F. WINN III, ’90, and Gina H.
Baxley on July 27, 1991, in Pensacola, Fla. The
wedding party included classmates Wesley
Goings III, Michael Higgenbotham, Christo-
pher Penniwell Jr., Jack Pringle, ‘Thomas
Sheehan, Russell Wilkerson, and Tommy
Winn, °93. The couple makes its home in
Birmingham, Ala., where Winn attends the
Cumberland law school.

 

 

Births a

 

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM H. MARMION
JR.,’64, a daughter, Katherine, on July 2, 1994,
‘The family lives in Dallas, where the couple
teaches at St. Mark’s School of ‘Texas.

DR. AND MRS. GORDON L. ARCHER,
65, a son, Samuel Gordon, on Feb. 13, 1991.
He joins Brynne, 6, and Claire, 5. The family
lives in Richmond, Va.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM F. CHEW III,
68, a daughter, Mary Larkin, on June 19, 1991,
The family lives in Phoenix, Md.

MR. AND MRS. J. McFERRAN BARR IL,
69, a son, Paul McFerran, on May 7, 1991.
The family lives in Louisville, Ky.

MR. AND MRS. JEREMY E. BROWN, ’69,
a son, Tucker, on April 4, 1991. He joins a
brother, Jeremy, 8, and sisters, Amy, 7, and
Sarah, 3. The family lives in Potomac, Md.,
where Brown is chief executive officer of the
Earle Palmer Brown Companies.

MR. AND MRS. DANIEL W. HIGGINS
JR., °69, a son, Daniel Grant, on May 2, 1991.
The family lives in Tulsa, Okla.

MR. AND MRS. GEORGE Z. BATEH, ’70,
a daughter, Serene, on Feb. 28, 1991. She joins
a brother, Tarik, 12,andasister, Deena, 9. The
family lives in Jacksonville, Fla.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN W. HAMMOND,
°73L,ason, John William VI, on Sept. 28, 1991.
They live in Marietta, Ga. Hammond serves in
the Georgia House of Representatives.

MR. AND MRS. GEORGE W. (BUZ) KING
III, 74, a son, Kyle William, on Oct. 13, 1991.
He joins a sister, Killeen Mara, 2. The family
lives in Richmond, where King works for
Slingerland & Sonor Drum Cos.

MR. AND MRS. JAY R. FRIES, ’76, their first
child, Anja Catherine, on May 23, 1991. The
family lives in Monkton, Md. Fries is a partner
in the law firm of Kruchko & Fries. He also was
recently elected to the board of directors of the
Baltimore County Chamber of Commerce.

MR.AND MRS. WILLIAM B. PEARD, their
second child, Leslie McFann, on April 1, 1991.
‘The family lives in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES D. PEARSON, ’76,
a daughter, Paige Malloy, on Nov. 27, 1991.
She joins sisters Carly Elizabeth, 6, and Sarah
Logan, 4. Pearson is executive vice president
of U.S. Cable Corp. in Montvale, N.J. The
family lives in Ridgewood.

MR. AND MRS. WALTER D. KELLEY
JR.,°77, °81L, ewins, Walter Thurman on Dec.
24, 1991, and Collier ‘Taylor on Dec. 25, 1991.
They join a sister Catherine, 2. The family
lives in Norfolk, Va.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN P. MONAHAN III,
77, a daughter, Elinor Tully, on July 23, 1991.
They live in Washington, D.C., where Monahan
is with the law firm of Williams & Connolly.

MR. AND MRS. CLARK G. ‘THOMPSON
JR., °77, their third child, Jonathan Neal, on
Nov. 25, 1991. The family lives in Houston.

MR. AND MRS. FRANK K. TURNER JR.,
'77, a son, Frank Keech III, on April 12, 1991.
The family lives in Baltimore.

MR. AND MRS. PETER L. FARREN, ’78,
a son, Hudson McDavid, on Aug. 13, 1991.
The family lives in Sanford, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. LEE W. MUSE JR., ’78, a
son, Alexander Nickels, on March 27, 1991.
He joins Lee II] and Tucker. The family lives
in Mission Viejo, Calif., where Muse is director
of sales and marketing for Details Inc.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES T. ROSELLE, ’78,
their first child, Holly Grace, on Dec. 9, 1991.
They live in Dix Hills, N.Y. Roselle was re-
cently named president of JDC Lighting Inc.
in New York City.

MR. AND MRS. RICHARD W. STEIN, ’78,
a son, Richard Jr., on May 27, 1991. He joins
three sisters, Ashley, 11, Laurie, 9, and Mary
Martha, 8. They live in Jacksonville, Fla.

MR. AND MRS. J. PETER CLEMENTS,
‘79, their second son, James Halligan, on Dec.
11, 1991. ‘The family lives in Carson, Va.

MR.ANDMRS.STETSON W. EDDY,’79L,
their second son, Taylor Deming, in July 1991.
They live in Little Compton, R.I.

MR. AND MRS. PAUL W. GERHARDT,
‘79, 84L, their third daughter, Ann Burton, on
Sept. 4, 1991. She joins Catherine, 4, and
Augusta, 2. They live in Norfolk, Va., where
Gerhardt is a partner with Kaufman & Canoles.

BETSY CALLICOTT GOODELL, ’80L,
and BILL GOODELL, ’80L, twins, Eliza-
beth Mercerand Charles Ellsworth, on Dec. 4,
1991. They join a sister, Jackie. The family
lives in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. JONATHAN B. (JACK)
SCHEWEL, ’80, a son, Bertram Cornelius, on
April 17, 1991. They make their home in
Lynchburg, Va.

MR. AND MRS. ANDREW M. GRISE-
BAUM, ’81,ason, Andrew Parsons, on August

7, 1991. He joins a sister, Brooke, 2. ‘The family
lives in Houston.

MR. AND MRS. JEFFREY W. HAMILL,
’81, a daughter, Alexandra, on March 2, 1991.
Hamill is national sales manager for Redbook
magazine. The family lives in Darien, Conn.

MR. AND MRS. RICHARD G. LATTURE,
*81, their first child, Camille Anne, on Oct. 10,
1991. The family lives in Alexandria, Va.

MR. AND MRS. GEOFFREY P. SISK, ’81,
a son, Peter Lambert, on March 7, 1991. The
family lives in Richmond.

DR. AND MRS. HAROLD R. BOHLMAN
III, ’°82,a daughter, Sarah Rebecca, on June 15,
1991, in Wuerzburg, Germany. The family has
since moved to San Antonio, ‘Texas.

MR. AND MRS. EHRICK K. HAIGHT JR.,
°82, a son, Ehrick Kilner III, on Oct. 13, 1991,
in Hilton Head, S.C. He joins sisters, Eliza-
beth and Emily.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT A. WILLIS, ’82,
their first child, Sarah Byrd, on June 30, 1991.
The family lives in Ridgewood, N.]J.

MR. AND MRS. VINCENT J. (JAY)
FECHTEL III, ’83,a daughter, Sarah Allison,
on July 21, 1991. The family makes its home in
‘Tampa, Fla.

MR. AND MRS. F. ERIC NELSON JR., ’83,
their first child, Heather Leigh, on Nov. 24,
1991. The family lives in Charleston, W.Va.

DR. AND MRS. ANDREW W. ASIMOS,
’84, a daughter, Bess Anne, on Nov. 11, 1991.
The family lives in Birmingham, Mich.

MR. AND MRS. GEORGE A. FINLY, ’84,
their first child, Isabelle Frances, on March 16,
1991. The family lives in Clarksburg, W.Va.

MR. AND MRS. RUSSELL R. ROSLER,
’84, a daughter, Eleanor Brown, on Oct. 10,
1991. The family lives in Bexley, Ohio. Rosler
is an attorney with Vorys, Sater, Seymour and
Pease, in Columbus.

MR.AND MRS. ROBERT J.’ TOMASO, ’85,
their first child, Charles Joseph, on Sept. 4,
1991. The family lives in St. Louis, where
‘Tomaso practices law with the firm of Johnson
& Neuman.

MR. AND MRS. VINCENT S. LAMANNA,
’87, a daughter, Justine, on Oct. 24, 1991. The
family lives in Brooklyn, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. RICHARD K. WELCH,
*88L, their second child, Daniel Murphy, on
Aug. 2, 1991. The family makes its home in
Falls Church, Va.

 

In Memoriam

 

 

 

DANIEL S. MacCORKLE, ’26, on Feb. 8,
1991. While at W&L, he was a member of Phi
Beta Kappa. He worked for Westinghouse
Electric Co. after graduation for two years,
before becoming an assistant engineer for
Consolidated Edison Co. of New York. He
then moved to Phelps Dodge Copper Prod-
ucts Corp. from 1936 to 1944, where he worked
on “lend-lease” contracts for U.S. Allies dur-
ing World War II. After the war, he worked
for D.S. MacCorkle Inc. and MAC Products
Inc. until 1968, managing those corporations.
After 1968, he was a special sales representa-
tive for Plastic Wire and Cable Corp.
MacCorkle was a member of the Institute of
Electrical & Electronics Engineers.

LAWRENCE L. McCARTHY, ’29, former
high school principal, on Dec. 22, 1991. After
graduation, he worked for U.S. Steel Corp.
for one year, before returning to Covington,
Va., working in public school administration
for 12 years. He received a master’s degree
from Peabody-Vanderbilt College in 1935.
During World War II, he served in the U.S.
Navy before being discharged due to a ser-
vice disability. He became a certified public
accountant in 1951, continuing as an indepen-
dent public accountant until 1976. McCarthy
was a member of Grace Covenant Presbyte-
rian Church in Richmond, where he served as
an elder and a deacon.

WALTER H. WILCOX, ’29, former paper
manufacturing executive, on Jan. 3, 1992. While
at W&L, he was a member of the Sigma Chi
fraternity and he graduated Phi Beta Kappa.
Wilcox began working for S.D. Warren Co., a
paper manufacturing company, in 1930. He
went on to become president of S.D. Warren,
and was vice president and director of Scott
Paper Co. Wilcox was a director of the paper
division of the War Production Board during
World War II. He was chairman of the Printing
Paper Manufacturers Association from 1958 to
1959, and was on the Board of Governors of the
American Pulp and Paper Association.

JAMES B. MARTIN, °31L, attorney and
former member of the Virginia House of Del-
egates, on Jan. 9, 1992. While at W&L, Martin
was a member of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity.
He practiced law in Gloucester, Va., from 1931
until his retirement in 1977. Martin served in
the U.S. Naval Reserve during World War II,
honorably discharged with the rank of lieuten-
ant commander. He was a member of the
Virginia House of Delegates from 1938-1942.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 61

Martin was also vice president and director of
‘Tidewater Newspapers Inc., president of the
J. Edwin Treakle Foundation Inc., director of
the Bank of Gloucester (now Crestar Bank),
director of ‘Tidewater ‘Telephone Co. (now
GTE), chairman and member of the Glou-
cester County Democratic Committee, a
member of the Democratic State Central
Committee, a member of the Virginia Com-
mission of Fisheries, and a vestryman of Ware
Episcopal Church.

DR. DUNCAN McCONNELL, ’31, profes-
sor emeritus at Ohio State University, on
Nov. 8, 1991, Temple, Texas. While at W&L,
he was a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon
fraternity. He received a master’s degree from
Cornell University, and a doctorate from the
University of Minnesota. He taught at the
University of ‘Texas for three years in the late
1930s and worked for the U.S. government in
the Bureau of Reclimation. He then worked
for Gulf Oil Co. as a research scientist.
McConnell was professor of mineralogy at
Ohio State, becoming chairman of that depart-
ment. He was also a research professor in the
School of Dentistry at Ohio State, retiring in
the late 1970s. He authored two books and
more than 150 articles, was a fellow in the
Royal Society of the Arts, and was amember of
seven honorary organizations. His biographi-
cal data are listed in Wor/d Who’s Who in Science,
and Who’s Who in the World.

M. HOGE CRIGHTON JR., ’33, interna-
tional bond executive, in June 1991. While at
W&L, he was a member of the Sigma Chi
fraternity. After graduation, he began work
in surety bonding, guaranteeing that contrac-
tors would perform in accordance with the
plans and prices of large public projects. He
continued in that field for virtually his whole
career, retiring in 1978. During World War II,
he served as a gunnery officer on a troop
transport in the Mediterranean.

DR. ROBERT R. SMITH, ’33, former phar-
maceutical researcher, on Sept. 27, 1991. While
at W&L, he was a member of the Pi Kappa Phi
fraternity. After graduation, he went on to the
University of Pennsylvania, where he earned
his medical degree in 1937. He interned at the
Abington Memorial Hospital in Pennsylvania,
and was affiliated with the hospital through-
out his life, most recently in an emeritus capac-
ity. He was school physician for the George
School, and practiced medicine in Langhorne
and Lancaster, Pa., until 1955. He interrupted
his private practice during World War II to
work as a flight surgeon in the Army Air Corps,
serving in Europe. He received the Air Medal,
with five Battle Stars, and a Presidential Cita-
tion, leaving the military with the rank of

62 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

captain. In 1955, Smith became senior re-
search associate for Ciba Pharmaceutical, and
held similar positions at Warner Lambert and
McNeil Laboratories. He completed his
pharamaceutical career with 10 years as medi-
cal director at William H. Rorer Co. He retired
in 1976, and moved to Ocean City, N.J., and
then Blue Bell, Pa., in 1988.

WILLIAM B. GABB, ’35, former sales man-
ager for Benjamin Moore & Co., on Oct. 31,
1991. While at W&L, he was a member of the
Pi Kappa Phi fraternity. He spent 44 years
working in various capacities for Benjamin
Moore & Co. Gabb was also a vestry for the
Manakin Episcopal Church.

JOSEPH L. ARNOLD, ’37L, attorney and
businessman, on Oct. 17, 1991, at home in
Versailles, Ky. Arnold played football while
at W&L, and was known as “Double O Joe.”
He was an honorable mention All-American,
and the University retired his jersey, number
00. After graduation, he began practicing law
in Lexington, Ky., where he would practice for
the rest of his career. He practiced with two
former governors of Kentucky, Louie B. Nunn
and Albert B. “Happy” Chandler. During
World War II, Amold was a staff sergeant in
the U.S. Army, serving in the Counter-Intel-
ligence Corps. He was active in Democratic
politics, running unsuccessfully for the Demo-
cratic nomination to Congress early in his
career. He was also involved in thoroughbred
racing, heading a syndicate that bought the
horse Bally Ache, which won the Preakness
and finished second in the Kentucky Derby in
1960. He had been a partner and president of
Miles Park Race ‘Track in Louisville, Ky.
Arnold was also involved in real estate devel-
opment and a coal mine in West Virginia. He
was a member of the Fayette County and
Kentucky Bar Associations, and Phi Delta Phi
legal fraternity. He was president of the Lex-
ington Club and was a former deacon and elder
at Versailles Presbyterian Church.

GIVEN W. CLEEK, ’37, chemist, on Oct. 15,
1991, in Woodstock, Va. After two years at
W&L, he began working as a laboratory ap-
prentice at the National Advisory Committee
for Aeronautics. In 1936, he transferred to the
National Bureau of Standards in Washington,
D.C. He enlisted in the D.C. National Guard
in 1937, and was commissioned as a second
lieutenant in 1939. During World War II, he
served in the United States and South Pacific,
leaving the service in 1945 as lieutenant colo-
nel. He returned to the Bureau of Standards,
working in the Optical Glass Section until his
retirement in 1973. He published 26 technical
papers and held two patents during his time at
the Bureau of Standards. Cleek also received

a degree in chemistry from George Washing-
ton University in 1954. He was a member of
the George Washington Cleek chapter of the
Sons of the American Revolution in Bath
County, Va. Cleek and his wife moved to E]
Paso, Texas, in 1980.

HENRY A. PETTER II, °38, retired architect,
on Nov. 7, 1991, in ‘Tucson, Ariz. Petter, a
native of Louisville, Ky., attended Yale Uni-
versity School of Architecture after gradua-
tion. He worked several years as an architect
in New York City, most recently with the firm of
Carson, Lundine, and Shaw. After his retirement,
he lived in Costa Rica and then Tucson.

CASS A. MAYO JR., ’39, major property man-
ager, on Nov. 4, 1991, in Tulsa, Okla. He
graduated from the University of Tulsa in
1938, and joined the mortgage department of
the New York Life Insurance Co. in Tulsa.
During World War II, he was assigned to the

8th Service Command of the U.S. Army. Mayo 7

was executive vice president of the Mayos
Inc., the family furniture store, the Mayo
family’s three major downtown buildings, and
several other properties. In 1951, he was voted
to the board of directors of the Atlas Life
Insurance Co. He was president of the Tulsa
Association of Building Owners and Manag-
ers, member of the Tulsa Farm Club, Metro-
politan ‘Tulsa Chamber of Commerce, former
president of Downtown ‘Tulsa Unlimited, and
was on the boards of several corporations.

EDGAR W. STUART, ’39, former partner of
‘Tan-Kar Oil, on April 8, 1991. Stuart was a
member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity while
at W&L. He was a partner in Stuart Lumber
Co. from 1936-38, and a partner in Stuart Dry
Cleaners in 1938. In 1938, he began working
for ‘Tan-Kar Oil, a service station management
firm. During World War II, he served as a
private in the infantry of the U.S. Army. He
was a past president of the Montgomery, Ala.,
Junior Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber
of Commerce, and the Kiwanis Club, a direc-
tor of the Coosa-Alabama River Improvement
Assoc., and a board member of the Children’s
Center. Stuart was on the Board of Directors
of City Federal Savings and Loan, and a elder
in the First Presbyterian Church.

ROBERT O. McDONALD, ’42L, retired
government lawyer, on May 1, 1991, in his
home in Silver Spring. He was chief of the
vessel documentation office for the Coast
Guard. After graduating from W&L,
McDonald served in the Army Air Force as a
civilian flight instructor during World War IL.
He moved to the Washington area in 1947 and
began working as a lawyer for the Veterans
Administration. In 1953, he transferred to the

 

 

Customs Service. In 1967, he became chief
of the office of vessel documentation, which
was subsequently transferred to the Coast
Guard. He retired in 1976. McDonald was
an amateur pilot and an antique car collector.

RAYMOND A. (PAT) SEARFOSS, °42, em-
ployee of Aetna Life and Casualty, on Aug. 8,
1991. Searfoss, who was a member of Pi Kappa
Phi fraternity, went on to work for Aetna Life
and Casualty for 38 years.

JOHN W. (JACK) JOHNSTON, °46, devel-
oper, on Oct. 24, 1991. While at W&L he was
a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity. He
entered the U.S. Air Force in 1943, where he
served as a bombardier and navigator in the
South Pacific. After the war, he returned to his
native Oklahoma, earning a business degree
from the University of Oklahoma. Johnston
entered his family’s mortgage business, but
left the company in 1952 to establish a devel-
opment business. He built several structures

in Oklahoma City, and was involved in the
development of the Crested Butte, Colo., ski
area in 1962. Johnston was a YoungLife
Committeeman, an elder in his Presbyterian
church, and a speaker for International Chris-
tian Leadership. He was chairman of the board
of World Neighbors and established the first
Christian Counseling Center in Oklahoma
City. Johnston was also an active supporter of
the Contemporary Arts Foundation, produc-
ing two plays.

DR. WILLIAM H. PIFER, ’47, surgeon and
instructor at the University of Virginia, on
Nov. 11, 1991, in Charlottesville, Va. While
at W&L, Pifer was a member of the Pi Kappa
Alpha fraternity. After graduation, he attended
the University of Virginia medical school,
completed his internship at the University of
Alabama, and his residency in otolaryngology
at the University of Cincinnati. He was a head
and neck surgeon in Winchester, Va., from
1957 until 1987, and was an instructor at the

University of Virginia for 16 of those years.
Pifer had been chief of staff of Winchester
Medical Center, chairman of the board of
Winchester SurgiCenter, and a member of the
consulting staff at Shenandoah Memorial
Hospital. He was a member of several medical
societies and organizations, including the
American Medical Association, which pre-
sented him with the physician’s recognition
award. Pifer was a former chairman of the
Winchester School Board, a member of the
Handley Board of Trustees and the Winches-
ter Rotary Board, and past president of the
Easter Seal Society. He was a board member
of the American Red Cross, and was on the
boards of the Winchester Chamber of Com-
merce and several corporations. Pifer was a
former vestryman and junior warden of the
Christ Episcopal Church.

WILLIAM H. MAYNARD JR., 50, on May
18, 1991.

 

1920-1992

He was 71.

John H. “Jack” Wise

John H. “Jack” Wise, professor of chemistry emeri-
tus at Washington and Lee, died Jan. 20 in Roanoke, Va.

A native of Marysville, Pa., Wise received his B.S.
from Haverford College in 1942 and his Ph.D. in 1947
from Brown University. As a young research chemist,
Wise worked on the Manhattan Project at Brown from
1943-46. He also taught at Brown and at Stanford Uni-
versity before coming to W&L in 1953. He served as
department head from 1970-86 and retired in 1988. At
various times, he taught during the summer at Brown,
the University of Virginia, and Stanford.

While at W&L, Wise carried out research at the Oak
Ridge (Tenn.) and Argonne National Laboratories. He
conducted extensive research in the areas of high resolu-
tion atomic spectroscopy, the classification of atomic

»

f
Vv
ya

 

a \

instruction in the department and in the University as a

le

ey. ~*

Rate ad

+ v. a
: ys Oe

* Ae

spectra, and on the applications of computers to chemistry
subjects. He was a member of the American Chemical
Society, the American Physical Society, and the Virginia
Academy of Science. He also was the co-author of many
articles in scientific journals, as well as the co-author of two
books, Laboratory Manual for General Chemistry and Problem
Manual for General Chemistry.

At W&L, Wise started popular chemistry courses
designed to generally educate non-science majors. He
taught almost every course in the chemistry curriculum and
served for years on the advisory and courses and degrees
faculty committees. As director of the computer center
from 1965-70, he played a major role in launching computer

 

whole.

Upon his death, the faculty passed a resolution praising
Wise’s service to the University. In part, the resolution
read, “Patience, tolerance, good humor, gentleness—these
are the words that come to mind when describing the life
and career of Jack Wise.... As a teacher, he influenced
generations of students in their search for knowledge of
chemistry. As a chemist, he made insightful contributions
in the field of spectroscopy. As an administrator and con-
sultant, he played a strong role in the development of the
general and chemical curricula here. As a friend to both
faculty and students, he helped many of us with his advice
and support.”

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 63

GEORGE A. ERISTOFF, ’53, in March 1991.

R. M. JAMES RUSCICK, ’53L, matrimonial
lawyer, on Oct. 21, 1991, in his office at Fort
Lee, N.J. An All-American basketball player
at Roanoke College, Ruscick coached basket-
ball and track at Staunton Military Academy
before attending law school at W&L. After
graduation in 1953, he served a clerkship with
the law firm of Levinson & Levinson, where
he was an associate until 1957, when he formed
his own firm. Ruscick was a practicing attorney
before the Supreme Court, and a prosecutor
and municipal court judge in Westwood, N.].
Many of his cases were published in the New
Jersey Superior Court reports. Ruscick, who
was a member of the Hudson County Bar
Association, was a fellow of the American Acad-
emy of Matrimonial Lawyers and the founder
of its New Jersey chapter. During World War
II, he served in the U.S. Navy in the Pacific,
seeing action in the Battle of Okinowa.

ROBERT M. ANDREWS, ’54, Associated
Press writer, on Feb. 20, 1992, of lung cancer in
Washington, D.C. A cum laude graduate,
Andrews served in the U.S. Navy before join-
ing The Richmond Times-Dispatch. He spent a
large portion of 27 years as a wire service
reporter, covering the inside and the outside of
the nation’s capital. He worked in the Wash-
ington bureau of United Press International
for 13 years, and spent the last 14 years in the
AP’s Washington bureau. Andrews also worked
in public relations for a time, and also was on
the staff of U.S. News @ World Report. Andrews
stories covered the range of life in and around
Washington, D.C. He covered the news of the
day on Capitol Hill, but he also found many
unusual stories that earned him a reputation as
the wire service’s best storyteller. He was a
native of Anderson, S.C.

WILLIAM L. NORIEGA, ’63, ’66L, Miami
attorney, on Oct. 22, 1991. Noriega was amem-
ber of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity while at

W&L, and was an attorney for the Miami law
firm of Noriega, Chopp & Schatz.

ROBERT E. MARTIN, ’69, on July 23, 1991.

KENNETH L. GORDY, ’91L, Georgia attor-
ney, on Oct. 9, 1991, of leukemia. He was an
attorney with the law firm of Ogletree, Deakins,
Nash, Smoak and Stewart in Atlanta. Gordy
was a member of Paxton Presbyterian Church
in Harrisburg, Pa., and later a member of First
Presbyterian Church in Texas. He enjoyed
rugby, fishing, hunting, and the outdoors.

64 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS

 

 

 

 

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer
and dark pine stain. ‘The five color crest of the University is painted on the
back of each chair or rocker. They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture
and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas, birthdays, graduation,
anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair goes to the
scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR BOosTON ROCKER
© Black lacquer with cherry arms © Black lacquer

© Dark pine © Dark pine

$235.00 $220.00

 

THE BOSTON ROCKER REQUIRES SOME ASSEMBLY.
Prices include freight charges.

 

 

 

To order: Include your name, address, your telephone number, and a
telephone number, if known, for the delivery location. Indicate chair or
rocker and color. Make check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Please
allow 6-8 weeks delivery.

Mail your order to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

 

 

 

| “4 —
| Se Ps oe

CLAS & Rta Be Se

HONORING
THE ACADEMIC AND LAW CLASSES

1942 1947 1952 1957 1962

1967 1972 1977 1982 1987

 

Thursday evening, May 7

Reunion Keynote Address
Lloyd A. Dobyns Jr., °57, Free-lance writer
Reception at the Alumni House

F'niday, May 8

Reunion Seminars
“WL Today: A Student Panel Discussion”
“After the Revolution: Reform in the Warsaw Pact Nations” M AY 7, 8, 9
“Environmental Update: Prognosis for the Planet”
“Politics and the Media: Who Really Elects Our Leaders?”
“Vietnam: An Oral History”

Cocktails with the Faculty

Buffet Dinner featuring the Johnny McClenon Big Band
Reunion Dance featuring Spectrum

 

 

 

 

Saturday, May 9

Annual Joint Meeting of the Undergraduate and Law
Alumni Associations in Lee Chapel

Picnic Luncheon

Class Banquets and Parties

 

 

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee University

La
Alumni Magazine NON-PROFIT ORG,
ee sp U.S.POSTAGE
Lexington, Virginia 24450 pees

PERMIT NO. 714
LYNCHBURG, VA

Ade4QqT A TSueATUN

As@ugrty AYTSuaatun

 

PY4ePquesc

