iné

Alumni Magaz

TORY LA

S
=
S%
Se
~
aS
S
NS
S
~
5
S
S
=
~
~

 

Rites of Spring
ATA UTA

March 5, 1993

a

 

 

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA. 24450

MAY 5 - 1993

PE ATURES

14 / Knowing John Gunn.
His interests are not restricted to economics or academia.

John Gunn knows a lot about the human condition. By Brian Shaw.

17 / A Room With a Curfew.

In the days before coeducation came to campus,
boarding houses were a second home to young women visiting W&L

for the weekend. What’s become of them since? By William Cocke ’82.

20 / Balancing the Books.
If you read only one story about W&L’s libraries this year,

we hope you'll make it this one. By Dick Anderson.

24 / Big Dogs on Campus.

Pig Dog, Tripod, Lumpi, Andy—these names ring any bells?
Also: A remembrance of law dogs past; and the fast life and
incredible death of Charlie Makinson. By Dick Anderson.

DEPARTMENTS

2 / From the Alumni President.
Ask not what your University can do for you...

3 / Letters.
E. Claybrook Griffith is remembered as a gentleman scholar;
and the 1942 football team is just plain remembered.

6 / The Colonnade.

The Foreign Student returns to campus as an $8 million production;
VMI and W&L students find a common meeting place;
and just who are the voices On the Shoulders of Giants?

23 / Namesakes.
Robert E. Lee goes for the bronze in his latest incarnation—
a 12-inch statue by local sculptor Roy Rudasill.

30 / The Generals’ Report.
Putting the wraps on a successful winter sports season.

Also: Why a freshman running sensation chose W&L over Vanderbilt,

34 / Alumni News.

Heavy hitters boost Louisville to Small-Chapter-of-the-Year honors.
Also: a first-soprano account of the Southern Comfort-JubiLee winter tour:
and “Skeet” Chadwick ’74 enters the Lacrosse Hall of Fame.

38 / Class Notes.

From ’25 to 92: News you can peruse. Also: Al Broaddus ’61, the new president
of the Federal Reserve Bank in Richmond; and the W&L flood victim who wasn’t.

Cover Photograph:
W. Patrick Hinely ’73

 

Krom the Alumni President

For Your Consideration

While the members of the Alumni Board are among the University’s biggest
cheerleaders, we recognize nonetheless that Washington and Lee is not Utopia. As
we approach the 250th birthday of this great institution, we face serious issues. I pre-
sent just a few of those topics for your consideration:

Financial Aid. This fall, for the second consecutive year, W&L will be unable to
meet the needs of those students we most want to have but who cannot afford to
come here. We compete against the nation’s best universities for these students, and
every one we lose because of insufficient finances is an important loss for us. It is
hoped that the current capital campaign will shore up our endowment so that the best
and brightest can continue to enroll at W&L, regardless of their ability to pay.

Budget Balancing. Our federal government could benefit from following the W&L
example of a balanced budget for as long as anyone can remember. But, as President
Wilson explained at a meeting of the Board of Trustees in February, this process
becomes trickier and more challenging each year. It is made even more difficult
because W&L has a healthy aversion to tuition increases as a primary means of bal-
ancing the books. We must continue to do so if we hope to maintain our distinction as
a Best Buy among liberal arts universities.

Student Life. W&L’s popularity among high school students suggests that we are
doing many things very well. Fraternities and sororities are thriving, and are likely to
remain the primary social outlet, but we cannot deny that social options for non-
Greeks and some minority students are less than satisfactory. Many people feel as
well that we would benefit from a vibrant student activity center on campus.
Although designed as such, the student center attached to Evans Dining Hall has
never fully jelled as a regular gathering place for students, so the woefully undersized
and very popular Co-op remains the current hub.

Complacency. If you are active in the affairs of your local chapter or involved in
fundraising efforts for W&L, you know the frustration of sensing that some alumni
take for granted the secure future of our great school. Participating in a phonathon
can be a sobering experience when someone who talks glowingly about W&L—
someone with the clear ability to make a meaningful contribution of time, talent, or
money—elects not to do so. Our distinguished track record gives us a giant head start,
but we dare not assume that we will remain strong without hard work. To use a time-
worn phrase, “There’s no such thing as a free lunch,” so I respectfully urge you to
consider whether you might be in a position to do a little more.

Law School/Undergraduate Issues. When I ran for student body president as a third-
year law student in 1978, I thought I had a novel campaign platform of “increasing
ties” between the law school and the undergraduates! This issue has actually been
around for many years, and the “Woods Creek gap” continues to be discussed regu-
larly on campus by candidates for student government and others.

Differences in the age, focus and time demands of the two groups make some gap
inevitable, but I cling to the hope that we can increase the number of law students
who will be full participants in the life and traditions of W&L, thus graduating with a
deep appreciation for the unique Washington and Lee experience.

As W&L seeks solutions to these problems and others, think about how you can
play a more active role in shaping the future of your University. Please feel free to
communicate your ideas to your local chapter leadership or the Alumni Board.

Waller T. Dudley ’74, ’79L
President, WEL Alumni Association

 

4 ty > iv,

Gentleman Scholar

It was with particular sorrow that I
noted the passing of Professor E.
Claybrook Griffith (W&L, Winter issue).
It was Professor Griffith who introduced
me to economics, which eventually (to
my surprise) was to become my lifetime
work.

During the second semester of the
1954-55 year I was one of several juniors
and seniors taking perhaps the toughest
course offered at W&L, Griffith’s
Economics 252—Economic Theory.
“The Griff’? would not give an inch in
the quality of the work he expected
from us and most of us were barely mak-
ing Cs if not failing. We were more
absorbed in the progress of our social
lives with the ladies at Sweet Briar,
Hollins, Randolph-Macon, and Southern
Sem than in applying ourselves to mas-
ter such an arcane subject.

While “The Griff” was strict, he was
not unreasonable or unfair. For instance,
he would seek consensus on the timing
of the written tests to which we were
subjected all too frequently in Econ 252.
Well I remember one such occasion
when the date for an important exam
was to be decided during a particularly
inappropriate (for us) time. “What am I
to do?” Professor Griffith complained to
the class. “I cannot give the exam on
Friday because you are preparing for the
weekend, and Monday is out because
you say you will not have recovered
from the weekend. That leaves only
Wednesday.” Whereupon someone (was
it me?) in the class piped up, “Sir, it is
getting increasingly difficult for us to
work classes into our schedule.”

That was certainly an honest state-
ment for a Washington and Lee man of
the carefree ’50s, but it did not carry
water with Dr. Griffith. He scheduled
the exam for Monday.

William H. Bartsch ’55
Novato, Calif.

Among my greatest blessings are to
have been a student at Washington and
Lee and to have taken classes under Dr.
Edwin Claybrook Griffith. It was with
deep sorrow that I noted his passing. If
heaven had chosen to embody the soul
of the University within a single individ-
ual, it could have selected no greater
disciple.

May I relate one brief instance which
certainly portrays his spirit as the em-
bodiment of the University’s principles.

It was during an early morning ses-
sion of sophomore economics. This par-
ticular Monday followed a Friday-
evening, University-sponsored social
function during which a student’s fla-
grant, tasteless conduct had reflected
upon the entire student body.

When Dr. Griffith entered the class-
room, his characteristic “Good morning,
gentlemen” was conspicuously missing.
Laying his armload of instructional
material on his desk, he turned to face
the class—with tears on his cheeks! He
spoke only a few moments of his feel-
ings following the Friday occurrence
and the school values maligned as a con-
sequence thereof. His passionate
account of the University as one wound-
ed by a child in its charge will live with
every member of that class forever.

The spirit of Dr. Griffith is an inte-
gral part of the proud tradition of being
referred to as a “Washington and Lee
gentleman.”

John T. Evans Jr. °57
Lynchburg, Va.

Private Lives

I am sorry, but I feel compelled to
respond to Alan Weber’s letter (“An
Alternative,” Winter issue). On a very
general level I fail to understand why
he, or anyone, would feel compelled to
promulgate information regarding his
sexual practices. If it is indeed true that
what goes on behind closed doors is only
the business of the participants, then I
think that we as alumni should come to
an agreement: I will spare you the
details of my personal life if you refrain
from using the alumni magazine as a

forum for yours.

More specifically, Weber urges that
Washington and Lee encourage the
development of organizations which
would allow “students, faculty, staff,
and alumni to confront their own homo-
phobia.” First off, I am afraid of failure,
loneliness, paralysis, poverty, starvation,
and dishonor. I am not, however, afraid
of homosexuals. I consider their behav-
ior to be immoral, disgusting, and dis-
ease-ridden, which causes me to view
homosexuals with pity rather than fear.
It is an interesting game that society is
playing nowadays. I feel no need to
march in parades, basking in my own
heterosexuality. Should we, in this new
age of enlightenment, also expect W&L
to support organizations for pedophiles,
necrophiliacs, or people of other deviant
concupiscence? Will we be allowed to
condemn bestiality, Mr. Weber? Or per-
haps that will be considered zoophobia
which only afflicts the narrow-minded,
provincial, and bigoted.

The point of this letter is not to
attack, but rather to implore people to
keep their private lives private. I sup-
pose that Weber’s letter was some sort
of catharsis for him, but this is not the
proper forum. I would prefer to open
the alumni magazine in order to refresh
my memories of the past and to stay cur-
rent on what’s happening at my old
school. I would prefer that it avoid top-
ics that are better covered in tabloid
papers.

Erick H. Rock ’90
Blacksburg, Va.

As I write this, it is President George
Washington’s birthday, and it now
appears that we’re stuck with queers
proclaiming their queerness as loudly as
possible, making a celebration out of it,
with parades and letters to the editor.
Why are they being so loud about their
queerness? That is one of the many rea-
sons why normal people are getting
more and more disgusted with queers.

All of this “publicity” the queers put
out is probably so they'll get more can-
didates available to do the things they
do to each other that queers do relent-
lessly and constantly and disgustingly.

Homomaniacs?

Next we'll have parades and letters to
the editor from other monsters who go
for sex with young children, usually of
their own gender. When this group
starts its Own support group, a suggested
name is Monsters Drooling for Kids
(MDFK), not to be confused with the
mainstream Medical Doctors for
Kissing.

Why don’t you queers cool it and be
sure you stay away from young children.

Charles G. Gilmore ’39
Pittsburgh

I am a graduate of 1956. I am a gay
person. I was a student during very
oppressive years, the ’50s. Everyday life
was fear and depression: fearing the
hatred and misunderstanding of the fel-
low students about me.

Last year I came to the Washington
and Lee campus and while there I met
with Dean Howison. I told him W&L is
one of the best schools. It cherishes
quality; it develops quality; it zs quality.
It would be a quality step for W&L to
become expert on homosexuality, gay
and lesbian, for there are women there
too. Having knowledge, open your
school to gays and lesbians; support
them; protect them. Let them have a
life of quality there in the sun. At pre-
sent one sees only their bodies. Their
selves are also very worthy.

Gilbert Dale Cornelius ’56
Charlotte, N.C.

P.C., or not P.C.?

I recently read an American Civil
Liberties Union report that the W&L
student government had refused to pro-
vide financial support for a student
ACLU chapter because the ACLU was
too controversial. Is this true?

If so, it bespeaks a narrow view of a
liberal education and demonstrates that
“political correctness” is not limited to
more liberal campuses. Those alumni
concerned about the P.C. movement
might appreciate the irony that immedi-
ately below this article was an article

about a campus ACLU chapter some-
where in the South that was opposing a
“hate speech” code at that college.

As one who transferred from W&L in
1963 after my freshman year, I may have
forfeited any right to criticize it, but
reports like this remind me sadly of a
perspective which seemed then, as it
does now, to undermine some of the
real strengths of W&L.

Rene H. Reixach ’66
Rochester, N.Y.

Student body president Josh MacFarland
93 replies: For many years the Executive
Committee has maintained a policy of
not directly funding ideologically or
politically partisan organizations. In
order to be consistent with this policy,
the committee determined it could not
fund the ACLU.

Because the committee’s primary
function is to serve the Washington and
Lee community, it is our belief that we
should approach issues of national poli-
tics with complete neutrality. There
are two ways of doing so: Fund all
groups equally or don’t fund them at all.

Difficult questions exist with the for-
mer approach. First, how to define
“equally?” Does each group receive a
flat amount, is the allocation based on
membership, or should the committee
make subjective, qualitative judgments
about each group? Second, the commit-
tee’s already oversubscribed budget
would be potentially inundated with
new requests. A majority of the commit-
tee has chosen the latter approach.

This selection may not provide a per-
fect alternative, but we have attempted
to make up for its shortcomings. In
order to promote debate and the flow of
ideas the committee funds organizations
such as Contact, the Graham-Lee-
Washington Society, the Women’s
Forum, and The Ring-tum Phi—groups
that operate without the onus of ties to a
politically charged national organization.
Further, our decision not to fund parti-
san groups should not be seen as an out-
right ban. W&L Spectator, a conservative
student publication, Young Democrats,
and College Republicans have all suc-
ceeded on this campus by obtaining

funding from alternative sources. W@L
Spectator is now free to operate with
complete independence from the
University, an important status for any
group which from time to time criticizes
school policy.

Having given much thought and con-
sideration to this issue, a majority of the
committee has decided that our policy
best serves the interests of Washington
and Lee.

What it was, was football

I enjoyed Evan Atkins’ article,
“When W&L Was in the Army” (Fall
1992). However, I respectfully differ
with her statement that by the fall of
1942 football had been cancelled. I was
a member of the 1942 football squad
that completed the entire season.

We lost some players to the armed
forces during the season, and many of us
had joined one of our services and were
awaiting our call to active duty.

I had become a private in the U.S.
Marine Corps Reserve on March 10,
1942, in Doremus Gym—2nd Lt. John
Sherman “Skip” Henderson °41 had re-
cruited a number of W&L and VMI stu-
dents and we were sworn in as a group.
A large group of my Phi Kappa Sigma
brothers were included. I was not called
to active duty until July 1943. At that
time, I never dreamed I would serve as a
Marine Infantry officer in three wars
and retire as a colonel in 1969.

You have an interesting and informa-
tive magazine and I enjoy each issue.

Lud Michaux ’44
Colonel, USMC (Ret.)
Baltimore

Col. Michaux is right: Despite the loss of
13 lettermen from the previous year, the
Generals persevered to a 1-8 record in 1942,
their sole victory coming at the hands of
Hampden-Sydney, 20-13. In the words of
The Ring-tum Phi (Dec. /, 1942), “W&L
fans can take pride in the fact that the
General team was fighting every minute of
each game and that vastly superior teams
were almost knocked off their perch by the
ever threatening Blue.”

Timeless Tux

Does anyone out there remember
Earl N. Levitt, clothier to young gentle-
men? I’d like Earl and the world to
know that the tuxedo I bought from him
‘n 1951, for 75 of my mother’s hard-
earned dollars, held me in good stead for
my daughter Georgeanna’s wedding Jan.
2 in Bethesda, Md.

This is what I call long-term cus-
tomer satisfaction. The tux not only
looked fine, but drew a few compli-
ments. Thanks, Earl. You and your store
are fondly remembered.

George “Buddy” Eagle ’52
Falls Church, Va.

Levitt is alive and well and living in
Williamsburg.

A Lesson in Giving

In his letter to the alumni published
in the Winter issue, Rector Steve Miles
reports that only 36 percent of alumni
contribute to the Annual Fund.

It would be instructive to see how
giving compares by years and classes
before and after coeducation. Could a
report on this be given?

Bob Moore ’44
Bluefield, W.Va.

Annual Fund director Peter Cronin ’84
replies: In the 1983-84 fiscal year—
before the announcement of coeduca-
tion—annual giving to Washington and
Lee stood at 37.0 percent. Annual giving
in 1991-92 stood at 36.3 percent.
Because the numbers have fluctuated
over the past 20 years by only a percent-
age point or two, one of our priorities is
to encourage more alumni to contribute
on a yearly basis. It is also worth noting
that annual giving on a dollar basis has
risen for seven consecutive years now.

Wrong Side of the Law

At first glance, I was pleased to see
the attention given to the 18th W&L

Legal Ethics Institute, and to my lec-
ture, in “Law News” (Winter issue). On
close reading of your summary of my
remarks, however, I concluded that my
argument was (unintentionally, I’m cer-
tain) misrepresented.

A reader of your summary would
understand my position to be that
lawyers need more, simpler “bright-
line” rules—even if such rules are arbi-
trary, dumb, and ethically impover-
ished—to help the legal profession
avoid costly moral reflection and dilem-
mas. That position is not my own (and it
would in any event be a curious contri-
bution to the legal ethics enterprise); I
identified that view in my lecture as the
apparent basis for certain contemporary
rules of professional responsibility.

While I did remark that ethical critics
of legal practices must be sensitive to
the potential sanctions and liabilities
lawyers face, which remark might have
been the source of the misimpression
your reporter received, I did not suggest
that we should eliminate “moralizing”
or that one can eliminate the moral
dimension of law practice. Rather, I
explained that the growing desire for
clear-cut rules presents new challenges
for those who struggle to ensure that our
collective values are reflected in law.

David S. Caudill
Assistant Professor of Law

The full text of Professor Caudill’s lecture
will be published in Social Responsibility:
Business, Journalism, Law Medicine,
which will collect the four applied ethics lec-
tures delivered during the current academic
year. Anyone who has not received a booklet
by Sept. 1 may request a copy by writing to
Louis W. Hodges, Director, Society and the
Professions, Washington and Lee Untverstty,
Lexington, VA 24450.

The Alumni Magazine of Washington
and Lee welcomes J/etters from its readers.
Send correspondence to: University Editor,
Washington and Lee University, Publi-
cations Office, Hill House, Lexington, VA
24450. All letters should be typed and
include the author’s name, address, and day-
time phone number. Letters may be edited for
length, content, and style.

VOLUME 68, NUMBER 1
SPRING 1993

Brian D. Shaw, Executive Editor

Dick Anderson, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

W. Patrick Hinely ‘73, Photographer
Evan Atkins, Contributing Editor
William Cocke ‘82, Contributing Editor
Matthew Felber ‘92, Class Notes Editor
Brian Logue, Sports Editor

Karlic & Linthicum, Design

COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY BOARD

John Cleghorn ’84

David M. Clinger ’55
William H. Fishback Jr. °56
Farris P. Hotchkiss °58
Robert S. Keefe *68

Tom Litzenberg °57

David Lotts ’74

Andrew H. McCutcheon °48
Robert Mottley °64
Elizabeth Obenshain
Howard Packett °58

Frank A. Parsons ’54
Cecily Tynan "91

Sarah K. Wiant ’78L
Robert Wittpenn °82

Published quarterly by Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington
and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA
24450. Third-class postage paid at
Lynchburg, VA 24502. Signed articles
reflect the views of their authors and not
necessarily those of the editorial board or
the University.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
DIRECTORY

Switchboard (703) 463-8400
Publications Office (703) 463-8956
Alumni Office (703) 463-8464
Development Office (703) 463-8410
News Office (703) 463-8460

Sports Info. Office (703) 463-8676
W&L Sports Hotline (703) 463-8998

The Colonnade

 

Waiting for Labro: Would-be student actors

answer the casting call for would-be students.

The Return of The Foreign Student
Filming Comes to W&L Campus in May

“One day,” author Philippe Labro told the Roanoke Times © World-
News nearly seven years ago, “you will see a movie crew come onto the
campus—and then everyone there will hate me for writing this.”

He was referring (jokingly, of course) to The Foreign Student—the
1986 novel that became a runaway bestseller in his native France and
has sold close to 2,000 paperback
copies since in the Washington
and Lee bookstore (but don’t go
rushing off to find it right now:
The English translation is cur-
rently out of stock and unavail-
able from the book’s publisher,
Ballantine).

Labro’s ‘Technicolor memo-
ries of his halcyon college days are
at last being realized on the big
screen, in an $8 million movie by
Featherstone Productions for
release by Carthago Films in
France and Universal Pictures
stateside. The six-week shooting
schedule includes three days of
filming on the W&L campus that
are scheduled for May 3-5.

The English-language film
boasts an international slate of talent on both sides of the camera.
Hungarian filmmaker Eva Sereny will direct a screenplay by Oscar
nominee Menno Meyjes (The Color Purple). Marco Hofschneider, who
won worldwide acclaim as the lead in the 1991 art-house hit Europa,
Europa, portrays the title character, an exchange student named
Philippe Labro who falls in love with an African-American housemaid
(Boomerang’s Robin Givens) while becoming the unlikely hero of the
(unnamed) university’s football team.

The majority of the film, a period piece, will be filmed around
Richmond beginning this month. When the cameras roll into
Lexington, locations will include the front part of the campus, the inte-
rior of Lee Chapel, Evans Dining Hall, and the men’s student locker
room inside Doremus Gymnasium.

An open casting call was held in Lexington March 10, and while it’s
unlikely producers were looking for local talent to portray the likes of
real-life figures Howlin’ Wolf and William Faulkner—both of whom
have cameos in the movie—they were looking for people who resem-
bled college-age students in the 1950s.

They came to the right place.

Boardman, Johnson
Named Trustees

Washington and Lee has two new
members on the Board of Trustees:
William P. Boardman ’63, ’69L, and
Rupert H. Johnson Jr. 62.

Bill Boardman is an executive vice
president of Banc One Corp. in Colum-
bus, Ohio, in charge of the company’s
acquisition team. When he joined Banc
One in 1984, the company ranked 39th
nationally with $9
billion in assets.
Currently, Banc
One ranks sev-
enth with assets
of $75 billion.
Prior to. that,
Boardman spent
15 years as a prac-
ticing lawyer, in-
cluding 12 years as a partner in the
Columbus firm of Porter, Wright,
Morris, and Arthur.

A native of Columbus, Boardman its a
member of the Association of Reserve
City Bankers and the Association of
Bank Holding Companies and active in
civic affairs. He served as a first lieuten-
ant in the U. S. Army in Korea from
1964 to 1966.

Rupert Johnson is executive vice
president of Franklin Resources Inc.,
and president of
Franklin Advisors
Inc., in San
Mateo, Calif., as
well as the com-
pany’s chief in-
vestment officer
and portfolio
manager for the
Franklin Dyna-
‘Tech Fund. He serves as an officer and
director of most individual members of
the Franklin Group of Funds and the
‘Templeton Group of Funds.

Johnson is a member of the executive
committee and the board of governors of
the Investment Company Institute; a
trustee of Santa Clara University; and a
member of the National Association of
Securities Dealers. From 1962 to 1965,
he served as an officer with the U.S.
Marine Corps.

 

 

Oh NSONn

Phi Beta Kappa Elects 46

Thirty-nine Washington and Lee
undergraduates and seven 1992 gradu-
ates were elected into membership in
W&L’s Gamma of Virginia chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa in March. Phi Beta
Kappa was installed at Washington and
Lee in 1911 and annually elects a limit-
ed number of students of outstanding
character and superior academic records.

Senior inductees included Jeffrey
Johnstone Brooks of Danbury, Conn.;
Jason Lewis Coccia of Danville, Va.;
Adam Thomas Craddock of St. Louis;
Charles Douglas Daniel of Lynchburg,
Va.; Chadwick Forbes Delp of Selma,
Ala.; Jennifer Kay Gladwell of
Pittsburgh; Leslie Henderson Hess of
Houston; Sarah Marie Horn of
Woodridge, IIl.; Scott Lee Howe of
Hurst, Texas; John Tucker Kalmbach of
Shreveport, La; William Clifford
Kitchens of Augusta, Ga.; Russell
Gordon Leavitt of Greeley, Colo.;
Christopher Chandler Lee of Memphis,
Tenn.; Cathryn Jo Lopiccolo of
Columbia, S.C.; Wendy Jackson Miles
of Mountain Lakes, N.J.; Thomas
Joseph Molony of Waynesboro, Va.;
Richard Herman Moyer of Port
Trevorton, Pa.; William Kirk Odgen Jr.
of Lantana, Fla.; Melissa Anne Philipps
of Lexington, Va.; James Michael
Prather Jr. of Carrollton, Ga.; Alicia
Megan Reese of St. Louis; Amy
Elizabeth Roberson of Rich Creek, Va.;
Jason Fielding Robinson of Roanoke,
Va.; Joan Ellen Schaper of Neenah,
Wis.; John Ryland Scott of Atlanta;
James Perry Selway III of White Hall,
Md.; Scott Alexander Smith of
Plainsboro, N.J.; Whitney Louis Swift of
Kingwood, Texas; Walter Blakely ‘Todd
III of Columbia, $.C.; Mark Christopher
Van Deusen of Englewood, Colo.; Laura
Elizabeth Vaughan of Thomson, Ga.;
and Christopher Evans Vinyard of
Abingdon, Va.

Junior inductees were Michael Scott
Covey of Chesterfield, Va.; Joseph
Benjamin Eggleston Jr. of Plantation,
Fla.; Charles Edward Erdman Jr. of
Herndon, Pa.; Corinda Marie Hankins
of Evansville, Ind.; Miriam Grace Neel
of Livingston, Ala.; Julie Lynn

Townsend of Knoxville, Tenn.; and
Colin James Wayne of Sarasota, Fla.

1992 graduates inducted included
Nicolas Szeps Fralin of Lexington, Va.;
Dana Leanne Jones of Columbia, S.C.;
Jennifer Elizabeth Kacmar of
Hockessin, Del.; Frank Barrett Martien
of Baltimore; Stephen Eugene Mathis of
Memphis, Tenn.; David Joergen
Peterson of Reading, Pa; and Tracey
Dawn Thornblade of Scottsdale, Pa.

Marvin Charles Henberg ’70, head of
the philosophy department at the
University of Idaho, addressed the
March 10 convocation. Henberg was
student body president while at W&L, a
member of Phi Beta Kappa and
Omicron Delta Kappa, and recipient of
the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medal-
lion awarded to the outstanding W&L
senior. His talk was titled “American
Wilderness: Myth and Metaphor in
Thinking about the Land.”

Watson Gallery Dedication
Scheduled for October

The Watson Gallery addition to the
Reeves Center at Washington and Lee,
under construction since last June, has a
tentative completion date of May 1.

The free-standing gallery will house
Chinese export porcelain, jade, and fur-
nishings given to the University by Mrs.
Elizabeth Otey Watson. The building
will be formally dedicated during the
Oct. 22-23 meeting of the Board of
Trustees, according to Thomas V. Litz-
enberg °57, interim director of the
Reeves Center since James W. White-
head’s retirement last July.

Litzenberg returned to W&L as
assistant to the president in 1991 after
serving for eight years as president of
Salem College in Winston-Salem, N.C.
He has also served as executive director
of policy for the Association of American
Universities and as assistant chairman at
the National Endowment for the
Humanities. In addition to his study at
W&L, he received his B.D. from Yale
Divinity School and his master’s and
doctorate degrees from Princeton. He is
also currently a trustee of the South-
eastern Center for Contemporary Art.

Whitehead served for 34 years at
W&L, the last 10 as the founding direc-
tor of the Reeves Center. Whitehead
had previously held the positions of
director of development, assistant to the
president, treasurer, and secretary of the
University.

W&L Goes Bowling
in Bermuda

Washington and Lee’s football team
will play Georgetown University in the
inaugural Bermuda Bowl, scheduled for
Nov. 20 in Hamilton, Bermuda. The
gridiron contest caps three days of
events involving players and alumni.

Among the highlights are an off-the-
field debate between players from both
squads on the topic, “Colleges that
depend on revenues from athletic
departments—Does this affect the
school’s educational mission?” (A panel
discussion featuring top administrators
from each school will follow.) Golf and
tennis alumni outings matching Gener-
als against Hoyas are also scheduled, as
are related social events for W&L alum-
ni and their families.

“We are honored to be invited to the
Bermuda Bowl,” says Mike Walsh,
W&L’s director of athletics. “It presents
a rare Opportunity to combine academic
and athletic competition with alumni
support for the University. It promises
to be a great weekend.”

“It’s a great treat for both squads to

 

 

Syndicated columnist George Will spoke to an overflow crowd in Lee Chapel at the Founders’
Day Convocation Jan. 19. Will was inducted as an honorary member of Omicron Delta
Kappa honorary fraternity, as were publisher and civic leader John F. Wolfe ’65 of Columbus,
Ohto; law school dean Randall P. Bexanson; and professor of art history Pamela Simpson.

go to Bermuda to play a football game,”
says W&L head coach Gary Fallon.
“This will be like a ‘real’ bowl game to
us. I’m very excited.”

The game is being sponsored by the
Bermuda Department of Tourism and
the Southampton and Hamilton Prin-
cess hotels. The weekend activities are
being coordinated by Robustelli Sports
Marketing of Stamford, Conn., which is
headed by Andy Robustelli, the Hall of
Fame defensive end.

For Bermuda Bowl reservation mater-
ial, contact Robustelli at (800) 243-2654.
Ask for the Bermuda Bow] coordinator.

Birneys Score in
Golf Digest Survey

Queenstown Harbor Golf Links—
owned by Arthur A. Birney °50, ’52L,
and his sons, Lex ’78, and Charlie—has
made the Go/f Digest 1992 survey of
America’s Best New Golf Courses.

The course, designed by Lindsay
Ervin and located near Queenstown on
Maryland’s eastern shore, was ranked
No. 6 in the Go/f Digest survey. Courses
were evaluated using five criteria,
including shot values, playability, design
balance, memorability, and aesthetics.

STITT Grim tells we PL mee lectit tM a lel iil]

 

 

—

The volunteer panelists offered a
variety of glowing comments about the
27-hole layout that gently juts out into
the Chesapeake Bay: “Demanding.
Open enough for the big hitter, but sev-
eral holes feature dense woods.” “This
course has everything: bent-grass fair-
ways, superb layout, challenging but fair
holes, good balance and abundant natur-
al beauty. A delight to play.” “It uses
the natural flow of the land as well as
any course I have seen. The design bal-
ance is exceptional.”

The Birneys and their Queenstown
Harbor Links were profiled in the Fall
1992 issue of the WEL Alumni Magazine.

Atwood to Retire in June;
Tribute Honors 40 Years

Following 40 years of service to the
University, professor of economics
Edward C. Atwood Jr. will retire from
W&L in June. Atwood joined the facul-
ty in 1953 and served as dean of stu-
dents and later dean of the commerce
school before rejoining the ranks of full-
time professors in 1986. While dean, he
taught a course in money and banking
that was required of economics majors
and elected by many others.

“Professor Atwood has influenced
many generations of students,” says pro-
fessor of economics Bruce Herrick. As
part of a tribute to commemorate
Atwood’s retirement, his colleagues in
the school of commerce are soliciting

“-
“
aa

letters of reminiscence and commenda-
tion from alumni. These will be placed
in a book and presented to him at the
retirement ceremony.

Alumni wishing to record the results
of their experiences with Professor
Atwood are urged to send letters to
Bruce Herrick care of the Department
of Economics at W&L.

 

On the U.S.S.
George Washington

W&L communications director Brian
Shaw (above, center) presents a portrait
of the front lawn of the Washington and
Lee campus to be placed aboard the
U.S.S. George Washington, a nuclear-pow-
ered aircraft carrier commissioned on
July 4, 1992, to ship Capt. James
Nutwell (left). Andy McCutcheon ’48,
national marketing manager of Reynolds
Aluminum Recycling Co., was also on
hand for the presentation.

OCTAVE eee aa Coa ALL

Former P
spoke at
son ton
rights, ac
notice
Pe a
govern
Univers

 

Sign of the Times?

Secret societies and cryptic messages
go together—well, like a skull and
bones. But just what was that Cavader
inside the female symbol spotted
around campus on Jan. 19—Founders’
Day at Washington and Lee—supposed
to mean, anyway?

Getting answers about Cadaver can
be about as difficult as having a conver-
sation with Cyrus McCormick’s statue.
But for answers, we turned to the one
anonymous spokesman we know for
W&L’s premier underground organiza-
tion, who replies: “I really don’t have
any information. I’ve not been informed
of any changes.”

More on this as it becomes avail-
able—or rather, fit becomes available.

 
  
        

 

Martin (left) and Jason Dunn find common ground between their schools, VMI and W&L.

Twin Brothers, and Good Neighbors

Every Wednesday evening around 7, a small group of Washington and Lee stu-
dents meets in front of Lee Chapel and walks over to neighboring Virginia Military
Institute. That shouldn’t seem unusual—not for two campuses that literally run
together and have coexisted, side by side, for more than 150 years. Yet there has been
little interaction between those students before now.

The Preston Society is the brainchild of identical twins Jason and Martin Dunn of
Greenwood, Ark. Jason is a junior at W&L. Martin is a second classman, or junior, at
VMI. Their organization, which currently numbers about 10 members from the two
schools, aims to bring W&L students and VMI cadets together, to get to know each
other better, and to spread their new goodwill via shared community projects. “By
establishing a joint organization,” says Jason, “it won’t be VMI cadets going to a
W&L event, and it won’t be W&L students going to a VMI function.”

How they ended up as academic next-door neighbors was quite by accident. Jason,
a philosophy major, wanted to attend a liberal arts college. Martin—who “never got
over playing Army,” according to Jason—wanted to go to a military school. Each
applied to four different schools, and when they independently arrived at their choic-
es, neither realized that the schools were in the very same town. (While one might
argue a motivation was convenience, the two schools are on totally different sched-
ules, and only once in three years have the Dunns traveled home together.)

Anyway, last summer they were discussing the fact that there was so little interac-
tion between their peer institutions. While W&L and VMI are about as different as
two colleges can be, they share many characteristics: close historical ties, deep tradi-
tions, and strong honor systems. “Most guys at VMI go through four years here with-
out ever knowing anyone at W&L,” says Martin, and Jason agrees: “Some W&L stu-
dents know someone or have friends at VMI, but as a student body they don’t get
together—the students just don’t have enough contact with each other.”

The society is named for John T.L. Preston (1811-1890), a W&L graduate and pro-
fessor who was one of the founders of VMI. Faculty advisor and assistant English pro-
fessor William Oliver claims connections to both schools, having taught English at
VMI for four years.

Recent friction between W&L and VMI students on weekends has prompted con-
cern on both campuses to improve relations between the two student bodies. “We
have to understand their rules and they need to be more aware of the W&L
lifestyle,” says Tom Hespos, a W&L junior and Preston Society member. Second
classman Chris Valenti agrees. “VMI students don’t understand the social life at a real
college,” he says. “And VMI is so foreboding, it scares other college students off.”

10

Special Requests from
Special Collections

The University Library’s Special]
Collections section is looking for three
back issues of The Ring-tum Phi to
replace items missing from the collec-
tion. The three issues are: June 13,
1917; Nov. 27, 1917; and Feb. 3, 1983. A
1941 edition of The Calyx is needed to
complete W&L’s yearbook collection.

Alumni with any of these items who
are willing to donate or loan them for
photocopying should contact Special
Collections librarian Vaughan Stanley at
(703) 463-8649.

A New Look for W&L

Your WEL Alumni Magazine has a new
look with this issue.

The new format is the work of de-
signers Will Linthicum and Ken Karlic
of Karlic & Linthicum in Baltimore.
Linthicum has worked on projects for
the University over the past eight years,
including admissions materials, Benefac-
tions 1991-92 (the annual report of gifts
for W&L), and just about everything
associated with the Campaign for Wash-
ington and Lee—including the cam-
paign brochure and the quarterly
newsletter, On the Shoulders of Giants.

We hope that you will find the stories
in this and subsequent issues easier to
read and more pleasing to the eye. As
always, we welcome your comments.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Washington and Lee University

i; Veal NOVEMBER. 1924

 

The way it all began, 68 '/5 years ago.

i LOOK WH

 

GOERS Te
soi Pent
as

aaate ons ge
“ 7

er. Tat
vi oe oy cht

8%
3 ao anise

ae

oJ

a

a ee
ad - ns

As the Campaign for Washington and Lee winds its way, chapter by chap-
ter, across the country, the celebrations are accompanied by a 14-minute video
history of W&L created especially for the events.

On the Shoulders of Giants was produced by Image Presentations of Boston. A
three-person crew led by Peter Ryan spent three days in Lexington conduct-
ing interviews with faculty, staff, students, administrators, and alumni—any-
body who could find a different perspective on the University. The results
were then shaped into a script and narrative that, if audience response is any
barometer, has struck a chord with alumni of all ages.

‘The most amazing thing may be that all the voiceover talent is local, and
part of the fun of watching the video is matching the unseen narrator with its
campus counterpart. So, for those who have enjoyed the video at nearly 25
campaign stops so far—and for those who will see it in the months to come—
here’s a chronological breakdown of the voices you hear:

 

 

O'S TALKING

Py, “I come back to this campus often—
sometimes physically, other times in my
mind’s eye.”—John K. Jennings, professor
of journalism.

ra “In ancient times, a ship called the
Paralos—Athens’ fastest ship, a great
champion—had been kept on display
over the centuries.”—Severn P.C.
Duvall, professor of English.

PS “And you will find the truth, and
the honest, and the just.” —Francis
Pendleton Gaines, W&L president from
1930 to 1958.

a “As far as the honor system goes, it
was very, very distressing at first for me
to hand out a test and then walk out of
the room.”—7y)y/er Lorig, associate profes-

sor of psychology.

5 “The key tradition, if you will—it’s
not really a tradition, it’s a way of life,
and that is honor and integrity.” —James
D. Farrar Jr. ’74, director of alumni pro-
grams.

a “The community is built on
trust.” —Lex O. McMillan ’72, director of
development.

“Students talk about it: What is a
violation and what isn’t?”—A&rian D.
Shaw, director of communications.

ta “You talk to alumni and they
remember it with such warmth and
strength.” —John W. E/rod, dean of the
college.

El “What it did was to give the institu-
tion a name—and that was very impor-
tant—it was a recognized name, it was
the name of George Washington.” —
Sidney M.B. Coulling ’46, S. Blount Mason
Jr. professor of English emeritus.

i) “When you join this community,
you will not be a stranger in our midst.”
—Erin Walsh, W&L sentor.

41 “We take for granted, we forget how
much we are shaped and formed by the
books that we read.”—Jofn D. Wi/son,
WE&L president.

11


ON THE

It’s good news/bad news time
in the admissions office at
Washington and Lee. Accord-
ing to William M. Hartog III,
dean of admissions and finan-
cial aid, the number of appli-
cants to W&L will exceed
3,300 for the third consecutive
year. Now, the bad news: For
the second consecutive year,
W&L will be unable to meet
the financial needs of its best
prospects—despite a long-
standing commitment by the
Board of ‘Trustees to make the
necessary resources available
for any qualified student to
attend the University.

As many as 100 students
will decline admission to
W&L for the 1993-94 academ-
ic year because of inadequate
financial assistance, which
helps explain why student aid
is the largest single compo-
nent of the Campaign for
Washington and Lee. A total

established his trust in 1912,
which continues to support
institutions “that can demon-
strate a strong combination of
educational excellence with
efficient and economical
administration.”

The Raymond L. Katzenbach
Scholarship. Mr. and Mrs. Jon
R. Katzenbach of New York
have established this scholar-
ship with a $50,000 gift to the
campaign. The scholarship
honors Katzenbach’s father
and the grandfather of W&L
junior Daniel G. Katzen-
bach—a man who, while
unable to obtain a college
degree himself, made it possi-
ble for all his family to do so.
In tribute to Katzenbach’s life
and origins, preference will be
given to students from 12
western states, including
Alaska, Arizona, California,
Colorado, Idaho, Montana,
Nevada, New Mexico, Ore-

SHOULDERS OF

Scholarships Honor Campaign Agenda

of $31 million in scholarship
endowment—$25 million in
undergraduate financial aid,
and $6 million in law scholar-
ships—is budgeted into the
$127 million campaign total.

The results so far are
encouraging. Nearly $17 mil-
lion has been raised toward
these goals, and in the current
fiscal year, gifts for student aid
are running more than three
times ahead of last year’s
totals—$3.5 million as of
March 5, compared to $1.0
million through March 31,
1992.

Recent gifts of student aid
to the campaign include:

The George I. Alden Schol-
arship Endowment. Campaign
gifts totaling $150,000 have
matched a $3-for-$1 challenge
grant from the George I.
Alden Trust in Worcester,
Mass., to endow scholarship
assistance to minorities
attending W&L. Since 1985,
four previous awards totaling
$61,000 from the Alden Trust,
coupled with grants from oth-
ers, have provided scholarship
assistance to 16 needy stu-
dents. Alden (1843-1926)

gon, Utah, Washington, and
Wyoming.

The Virginia Graham Webb
Scholarship. A $220,000 en-
dowment from the estate of
Harry E. Webb Jr. (51L) will
provide a full-tuition scholar-
ship to be alternated between
undergraduate and law stu-
dents from Virginia. The en-
dowment was received follow-
ing the recent death of
Webb’s mother, Virginia, for
whom the scholarship is
named. Harry Webb, retired
chief counsel of the U.S.
Indian Claims Commission,
died Oct. 7, 1989.

So far this year, 22 new
endowed scholarships, includ-
ing six in excess of $200,000,
have been created through the
Campaign for Washington and
Lee. The push to increase
financial aid won’t stop when
the last dollar is raised, accord-
ing to national campaign chair-
man H.F. “Gerry” Lenfest
*53. “When it comes to attract-
ing top-drawer students to
Washington and Lee,” he
says, “the importance of
honor- and need-based schol-
arships can’t be overstated.”

GIANTS

13

Knowing |

A Lesson in Economics
By Brian Shaw

lll

Before there was an Office of Career Development and Placement, before

there were volumes and volumes of books with titles like How to Find a

Job After Graduation, before there were “headhunters” seeking to match

prospective employers with employees, there was The Gunn Network.

The Network is a curious combination of
facts, trivia, and minutiae about students
who have passed through John Gunn’s class-
es and what they are doing today. The
Network is kept largely in Gunn’s head, but
also in his computer, in his files, and in the
scraps of paper that are stuck all around his
commerce school office. The Network is an
information bank that rivals any in the alum-
ni office, the development office, or the
news office. Chances are that if you need to
know anything about a student who has
spent any time in the C school in the last 33
years, Gunn knows the answer.

“What I am is an assistant in learning and
in the whole development of young people,”
Gunn says, looking out the window of his
office in the C school (a view that takes in
his freshman room at Graham-Lees dorm).
“The ‘Network,’ to the extent that there is
such a thing, is the end of a spectrum for a
fraction of the students with whom I deal,
very much an extension of a process of
teaching and counselling.” To which he adds
with typical understatement: “I don’t lose
interest in my students after they graduate.”

Gunn’s former students include a former
chairman of the International Trade Com-
mission; a managing partner of the Baltimore
office of McGuire Woods Battle & Boothe:
and CEOs of several companies listed on the
Big Board of the New York Stock Exchange.
Many of them come back to campus to lec-
ture at the C school or as members of the C
school advisory committee. It is, Gunn says,
a mutually beneficial relationship: “I also

14

learn a great deal from alumni that has assist-
ed me both in keeping in touch with reality
in some of the financial aspects of the econo-
my, but also in counselling students in career
choices and the kind of advanced education
they should seek.”

“Professor Gunn uses alumni as examples
of what we ought to want to accomplish,”
says Mark Monyek ’85, who works for
McDonald’s International in Chicago and is
heading up a drive to establish a scholarship
in Gunn’s name. “He really embodies the
best of the W&L teaching tradition. He
wants his students to be better and more
successful people.”

John Gunn remembers visiting Washing-
ton and Lee as a junior in high school, on a
trip with his aunt and grandmother.

“My aunt had gone to Hollins and taught
me “The Swing’ as a young boy, recalls
Gunn, who grew up in Georgia. He was
preparing to leave for the University of
Alabama when he told his father that he
wanted to go to W&L instead. “My father
called Dean [Frank] Gilliam the next morn-
ing and I was admitted.”

Gunn enrolled in the fall of 1942, but his
education was interrupted by World War II.
Gunn enlisted in the Army, and schoolmates
Sid Coulling ’46 and Westbrook Barritt *43—
both of whom were later colleagues of
Gunn’s on the W&L faculty—were called up
alongside him in 1943.

Fifty years later, Gunn vividly recalls his
last night in Lexington. “We had what I call

the ‘champion party’ at W&L. I can’t
remember a bigger or better party. The next
morning, we all lined up to board three char-
tered buses behind McCrum’s Drug Store.
Most of us hadn’t slept at all. A small band
played “The Swing’ over and over. We knew
our time had come, and we were prepared to
accept it.”

World War II “molded my life,” Gunn
says. “I lost 17 classmates in the war. I never
go by the War Memorial Gate without think-
ing about them and what we lost.”

Gunn returned from the war and enrolled
at Georgia Tech, rooming with his brother.
He earned a degree in physics and went to
work for U.S. Steel in metallurgical quality
control, and quickly realized he wasn’t cut
out for that line of work. He wanted to go to
graduate school.

“I literally flipped a coin between eco-
nomics and political science,” he says.
“Economics won.” Gunn enrolled at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
and on a free weekend came to Lexington to
visit his old professor and dean of the School
of Commerce, Economics, and Politics. Lew
Adams talked him into transferring to
Princeton, which he did, taking his master’s
in 1954 and going to teach at Florida State
University.

Gunn was happy in Tallahassee: “I liked
the town, I liked the campus, and I liked the
students.” ‘hen one day he got a registered
letter from Lew Adams inviting him to take
a position in the C school. “I was really torn
and I couldn’t decide,” he says. “I went to

 

 

_ :s- KODA ta MY . Lc
Se ; oe KODAK TI
Thi Leia } ia
So add . : , 2, (7; TER
WL | Ee sl

5 P 7 " es / ; z
=\\Ni\ . % ~ t y . i 5d ’ 5 i ; ai ' :

iF a
lh i

eB

Taeley.t ae

AAY
‘ad

W LA bea
UU

 

so spi
yy oe

 

see my family, and my mother asked me
where I’d be next year. Without thinking
and without really having made up my mind,
I said, ‘Lexington, Virginia.’ She smiled and
said, ‘We knew all along.’ ”

In retrospect, it was “the Honor System
and the total civility of the institution” that
drew Gunn back to W&L in 1957. He met
and married the former Charlotte Davis and
settled into life in Lexington.

In John Gunn’s opinion, economics lies at
the heart of almost every subject. “Every sig-
nificant economic decision is, in part, a moral
decision,” he says, as if to recite his mantra.
“Economic decisions involve the welfare of
other people—that’s where the connection
to morality comes in.”

Almost every student of economics at
Washington and Lee has come to know and
understand the models and topics Gunn uses
to teach his subject, with names like The
Fantastic Loom and the General Equilibri-
um. His annual Balance of Payments lecture
sets the record straight on the real causes of
the balance of payment deficits, not those
reported by the media or by members of
Congress.

(Attention, class. The three real causes,
according to Gunn, are: “The decline in pro-
ductivity improvement that has occurred
since 1973 that checks further improvement
in the average standard of living and puts
major barriers in the way of solving other
severe problems; the failure of the nation in
the last two decades to make further
progress in reducing that fraction of the pop-
ulation that essentially do not share in the
general prosperity enjoyed by the rest of us;
our failure to make more progress in solving
the problems of intermittent mass unem-
ployment.” Class dismissed.)

The Fantastic Loom is a parable-like case
study that weaves elements of invention,
employment, and wages and forces students
to weigh the benefits of improved efficiency,
higher real wages, and a higher standard of
living against temporary unemployment and
the permanent redistribution of income.

Gunn calls the concept of The General
Equilibrium “one of the grandest analytical
concepts in all human culture. In economic
analysis it is an attempt to conceive all eco-
nomic forces and events in their total rela-
tionship with each other. It views the econo-
my as if it were a mammoth and intricate spi-
der web, in which a change in any strand
would exert forces to effect change through-
out the entire web—the entire system.”

Global macroeconomics and the whole
range of issues that confront the nations of
the world are Gunn’s particular passion. “I
am deeply worried about the rate of growth
of the world’s population and its implications
for the welfare of those people who live in
the future,” he says. “That is the base of the

16

whole bag of environmental problems. When
their harmful effects become severe enough,
society will change; people will demonstrate
their powers of rational choice, of invention
and innovation. But the critical question is:
Will there be time lags such that some criti-
cal thresholds might be crossed before the
social evolution kicks in strong enough?”

It’s a question that greatly bothers Gunn.

While Gunn is, first and foremost, an
economist, another issue has captured his

time, energy, and interests like no other—
the battle against mental illness and, more

“Every significant
economic decision

NST TAPEIOE
Aun

 

specifically, the donation of post-mortem
human brains for neuroscientific research. It
is something Gunn says he is committed to
“for the rest of my life.”

“The lives of me and my family were
devastated and transformed about a decade
ago when our son, John, was diagnosed as
having schizophrenia,” Gunn says. “He was
a college graduate, living and working in
Lynchburg, but severely ill. He was hospital-
ized 10 times, and after several years of a
courageous struggle against an enemy he
could not defeat, he took his own life.”

Prior to their son’s death, Gunn and his
wife became active in the National Alliance
for the Mentally Ill, the peer support and
advocacy organization. The summer after
John’s death, the Gunns attended the NAMI
national conference in Boston. It was, Gunn
says, a revelation: “More than 2,000 people,
each of whom was instantly an old friend of
every other, highly informed, highly motivat-
ed, unified to a degree unlike any other
group I ever saw, conveying a sense of power
— power to change things.”

Gunn was elected to the national NAMI
board in 1991, and was subsequently elected
treasurer and a member of the executive
committee. With more than 140,000 mem-
bers in all 50 states, NAMI is perhaps the
leading advocacy organization in the health
care field today.

Gunn’s particular interest lies in donation
of human brains for research. “We donated
John’s brain to the intramural Brain
Disorders laboratory at the National Institute

of Mental Health,” whose scientists are
among the most outstanding in the world.
“We did it because we thought we ought to,
It turned out to have the unexpected effect
of helping us greatly to deal with our grief.”

According to Gunn, leading brain scien-
tists believe that the shortage of brain tissue
is the largest impediment to faster progress
against the severe and persistent mental jl]-
nesses, such as bipolar disease and schizo-
phrenia. Scientists don’t need a large num-
ber of new brains, he says, but they aren’t
getting anywhere near what they need.

Gunn has designed a program, which he
hopes that NIMH will fund, to increase the
“pitifully small rate of donation of this tissue
in which lie the secrets that skilled scientists
are trying to uncover.” Gunn has testified
before Congressional committees and con-
tinues to religiously attend the regular meet-
ings of NAMI.

“By confronting this problem,” Gunn
says, “Charlotte and I feel we are doing a
small bit to combat the stigmatization of
those who suffer these dreaded diseases.”

What precious free time Gunn has, he
spends listening to music, except country
(“twangy” and “unappealing”) and pop
(“the ‘three-chord geniuses’ leave me cold”),
and tending to his dramatic hilltop home 480
feet above the Maury Riv%%er: “We really do
have the best view of any lot I’ve seen in this
county.” And, of course, he maintains his
Network—staying in touch with the legions
of students and alumni he has touched.

‘To say that the University—its people, its
traditions, its way of life—has shaped John
Gunn and the way he looks at things might
be an exaggeration, but not much. When the
1967 Calyx staff dedicated the yearbook to
John McKenzie Gunn Jr., the dedication
read as follows:

“The office in Newcomb Hall is always
open. Inside is a man who has been a schol-
ar, teacher, advisor, and friend to countless
Washington and Lee men. In his introduc-
tion to a portion of the University Self Study,
this man spoke of the University’s endeavor
to ‘blend academic excellence and moral
integrity, fortified by self confidence, self
discipline, and large vision, and enriched
with taste, courtesy, and a touch of gracious-
ness. The 1967 Ca/yx is dedicated to a man
who fulfills this prophesy in its idealism and
in its specific aims.”

“The students are my friends,” Gunn
says. “That doesn’t end after graduation.”

Jean Stroman ’91, who works for Wacho-
via Bank in Atlanta, concurs. “Professor
Gunn has a unique interest in students while
they're at Washington and Lee and after-
wards,” she says. “What I learned from him
inside and outside the classroom is very valu-
able to what I do now.

“I cherish his friendship.”

 

 

a

tell. It’s the big, two-story, structure on the

> of Gilliam dorm—the one with the cream-

exterior and the tin roof on top and a sign that

 

 

 

 

7  —_—

rie: Se ett
Bons hers ee
ai? ee ‘

=

 

18

Room

With

BY

WILLIAM
COCKE

"82

Bob Wayland

at his East Washington
Street residence:

“ust like staying with
your grandfather.”

 

‘The house has been there since
the 1890s, when it was picked
up and moved from its Main
Street location to make way for
the Lexington Presbyterian
Church. Then the home of
Lexington mayor J. W. Hough-
awout, the story goes that he
would sit on the front porch, his
head just above the railing, wait-
ing to see whose wife came
down the street. If she had her
dress unbelted, he would then
fine her husband.

More recently, it was the
home of Ruth Jeffries Rees,

 

who died last December at age
90. Rees operated a rooming
house there for more than four
decades and put up guests of all
sorts, including a worn-out
sportscaster named Al McGuire
who showed up looking for a
quiet place to spend the night.
But the ones who mattered the
most to W&L students were of
a particular sort—the overnight
female guest. It is said, by
daughter Patsy, that Rees used
to sit up nights watching the
stairs to make sure no boys
snuck in. If she fell asleep, then
her dog Puddles would sound
the alarm.

Few ever made it past Mrs.
Rees—and it may well be that
no one ever made it past
Puddles.

It all seems kind of quaint
today, the idea of arranging for a
place for your date to stay, but
for many years it was the way
things were done—period.

Although it is less evident
now, Lexington used to have a
relatively sophisticated and far-
flung network of boarding

houses, rooming houses, and
overnight guest houses. They
were run by a wide range of
people, from widows and wid-
owers, to young couples, to
Washington and Lee faculty
members. And while much of
the clientele was drawn from
traveling salesmen and budget-
conscious tourists, Lexington
was also blessed, by virtue of
having two all-male schools
within its limits, with an almost
inexhaustible supply of even
more temporary guests—dates
from neighboring women’s col-

leges and other universities.

From the late 1940s to the
early 1980s, there were probably
20 or more private homes where
girls could spend a night, or
even the weekend, while visit-
ing a beau at W&L. Room and
board typically meant a bed and
maybe a light breakfast the next
morning. Girls would sometimes
have to double up in the same
bed, but the fee was nominal,
usually under $5.

Until the women’s colleges
began relaxing their parietal
rules around 1970, most of the
houses had to be on an ap-
proved list which was circulated
to the female students. Curfews
meant that girls had to be back
by 2 a.m. on Saturdays and in
many cases were on their honor
to do so. Although there were
probably no bed checks as such,
veteran proprietors always
seemed to have a sixth sense
about who came in on time and
who did not.

Bob Wayland, 87, qualifies as
a veteran. A retired surveyor (he
helped map the Shenandoah

National Park in 1927) and
pipeline manager for the loca]
natural gas company, Wayland
and his late wife began taking in
boarders at their home at 206
East Washington Street in the
late 1940s. “In the old days, we
didn’t have but one hotel in
town,” he explains. “Taking in
boarders was a good way to
make a little extra money.”

On normal weekends he
could count on two or three
girls, but for an occasion such as
Fancy Dress, he would have up
to 20. And then some. “One

weekend, a Sweet Briar girl
called and made a reservation,”
he recalls. “When she arrived,
she had 23 friends with her—
and they all ended up sleeping
on the floor. It’s a good thing
they had sleeping bags.”

Wayland has kept up with
many of his overnight alumnae
over the years. He has been
asked to attend graduation exer-
cises at Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College and Sweet
Briar, and his sitting room is
filled with pictures, not only of
children and grandchildren, but
also of his former weekend
charges.

“Mr. Wayland was great,”
recalls Susan McClanahan, a
1987 Mary Baldwin graduate
and former overnight guest.
“He would wake us up in the
morning for breakfast. It was
just like staying with your
grandfather.”

“I’ve always enjoyed young
people,” he admits. “I like
keeping up with them, and
sometimes, when they drop by,
or just send me a Christmas

|

|

 

card, I really appreciate it. It is a
pleasure to have them come
back and contact you.

These days, Wayland still
has a couple of full-time board-
ers, but the weekend guests are
usually there to see someone at
VMI. He still gets the occasional
knock on his door, however,
that invariably turns out to be a
W&L student who introduces
himself by saying, “My mom
used to stay here when she was
dating my dad, and they asked
me to stop by... -

Besides townspeople, a few

 

 

 

W&L faculty members were
willing participants in turning
their houses into mini-dormito-
ries each weekend. Fran Drake,
professor emeritus of Romance
languages, remembers that the
whole system tied in with the
now-outmoded idea of chaper-
ones and curfews, but that the
girls who came back were just
like family.

Professor emeritus of ac-
counting Jay Cook and his wife,
Flossie, agree. Word would pass
around about the best approved
houses, and many girls became
repeat customers. Mrs. Cook
remembers that they were
honor-bound to come in at the
right time, but in the eight or
nine years they kept guests,
they never had to turn one in.

It was especially good if one
had college-age sons. On one
Occasion, they recalled, a son
Invited several friends to
Lexington for the weekend
without checking with them
first. It just so happened that
they also had a houseful of girls.
“We had to keep the two groups

separate,” Mrs. Cook explains.
“So those poor boys had to
sleep in the cold basement.
Though with all those girls
there,” she adds, “I don’t think
they minded.”

Strict as it may seem now,
the Cooks believe that the sys-
tem worked. “It was good for
freshmen girls in particular,”
says Mrs. Cook. “I think that
sometimes they were grateful
for a place to go. If they had had
a bad date, it gave them a home
base in case they needed it.”

Julie Sackett, a Sweet Briar

 

alumna who married her W&L
beau Henry (’64), saw things
from the other side, but she
agrees. “It wasn’t all bad
because it allowed a girl who
had bad luck with her date
somewhere to go. It was a safety
valve. Besides,” she adds,
“since parties started earlier
back then, you were hard-
pressed to find something to do
until 2 a.m. anyway.”

Because of Libby Wash-
burn’s status as a Sweet Briar
alumna and the wife of the
W&L alumni secretary, the
Washburn home was something
of a Sweet Briar West from the
late *50s through the early ’70s.
As a young administrator, Bill
Washburn was grateful for the
contact with students that the
system afforded. They both be-
lieve that contact with older
people exerted something of a
steadying influence on the
young people.

But boys will be boys. Mrs.
Washburn remembers hearing a
commotion late one night, and
upon going downstairs discov-

ered a young man, a bit the
worse for wear, attempting to
wake the young lady of his
affections on the second floor.
She very politely explained that
the front door should have been
locked hours ago and that he
would simply have to leave. ‘To
which the young man replied,
“Don’t worry, Mrs. Washburn, I
would have climbed the wall to
get in anyway.”

He came back and apolo-
gized the next day.

Sadly, perhaps, only a hand-
ful of rooming houses remain in

Lexington today. The prolifera-
tion of motels, which somewhat
depersonalizes the act of finding
a place to stay, has seen to that.

Only the stalwarts remain.
Wayland’s guests arrive via word
of mouth and through the
Lexington Visitors’ Center, lo-
cated just down the street. Patsy
Rees is carrying on the business
since the death of her mother,
ably assisted by long-time fami-
ly friend Mae Woodson.

But the Center’s Directory of
Accommodations \ists only two
places—including the Rees
house on West Washington—as
“tourist homes,” alongside more
than a dozen bed-and-break-
fasts. Rooming houses seem
now to be favored primarily by
foreign students (probably be-
cause of price and their resem-
blance to the youth hostels back
home) and for their proprietors’
general rule of thumb of not
asking a lot of questions unless
prompted—a habit that anyone
who has been chatted up by an
overly zealous B&B owner can
appreciate.

And if it weren’t for VMI,
the overnight female guest from
another school—an endangered
species—might be extinct.

That decline, along with that
of the rooming houses, was not
as much a function of W&L’s
move to coeducation as it might
first appear. Many factors must
be taken into account. Maybe it
was because of greater mobility
as more and more college stu-
dents were able to have cars.
Maybe it was because college
weekends became much less
date-oriented. But the death-

 

knell probably came with the
Woodstock generation, when
changing mores and attitudes
(coupled with the need to
remain competitive) prompted
women’s colleges to drop the
“approved house” concept and
no longer required their stu-
dents to inform them of their
whereabouts at all times. What-
ever the case, for decades it was
the only option for societal, eco-
nomic, and practical reasons.
College students today have
much more freedom than did
their parents, and there are all
sorts of ways colleges have of
dealing with the problems faced
by young adults. But in the days
before counseling sessions and
seminars, maybe a cup of tea
and a kind word was just the
thing to comfort a broken-heart-
ed and disillusioned girl, and
maybe the appearance at the
door of a man who looked exact-
ly like your grandfather was just
the thing at 3 a.m. to cause a
hormone-crazed boy to straight-
en up and act like the gentle-
man he knew he was all along.

19

20

ALANCING
THE

BOOKS

W&L’ LIBRARIES ARE BIGGER AND
BUSIER THAN EVER—BUT THE COST OF
INFORMATION IS GROWING EVEN FASTER

University librarian Barbara Brown and Annie: One year after the computer

system came online, usage in both libraries is up by nearly 25 percent.

 

By
Dick

Anderson

lita a el sia ia

arbara J. Brown buys 10,000
monographic titles—books, in layman’s
terms—for the University Library each
year. A monograph can be many things:
a scholarly work published by some
obscure university press (i.e., something
you'd never find at a Waldenbooks), or
the latest biography of a noteworthy fig-
ure (a recent favorite of Brown’s is JFK:
Reckless Youth). And of course, “We buy
everything we can find that’s published
on Lee and Washington,” she says.

The criteria become a little trickier
when it comes to the more popular
offerings: to buy, or not to buy?
Whether it’s nobler to suffer the slings
and arrows of Rush Limbaugh, or to
take arms against a siege of Stephen
King? Brown and her staff look at
reviews, pre-publication information,
and make some judgment calls about
authors and publishers. Or, to use two
recent bestsellers as an example:
Scarlett, yes; Sex, no. (About the latter,
Brown quips, “We would probably have
to put it in Special Collections to hold
onto it.”)

Whether or not to purchase such cof-
fee-table tomes is the least of Brown’s
concerns as University librarian. The
spiraling cost of serials, coupled with
the electronic revolution spearheaded
by Annie (the libraries’ online informa-
tion system) and keeping her staff up to
speed with these changes are foremost
in Brown’s thoughts as she sits down
with the most important tome she will
read all year: the proposed operating
budget for the coming fiscal year.

It’s the same story over in Lewis
Hall, where law librarian Sarah K. Wiant
‘78L wrestles with the same basic chal-
lenges: making library dollars go further
in a time when double-digit price in-
creases in periodicals and journals clash
head-on with an information budget
that has increased at an annual rate of
only 4 percent in recent years.

In Wiant’s opinion, Annie “improved
a hundredfold” the communications
between the two libraries—which
Should in turn reduce any unnecessary

overlap in their collections. “If there’s
something marginal for our purposes
that the University Library is getting,”
she says, “we simply don’t buy it.”

(But she didn’t order the Madonna
book, either.)

Since the installation of Anmie last
April, usage of the libraries is up dramat-
ically—which is pretty typical, Brown
says, of what happens at other universi-
ties, and a healthy sign: “We don’t want
our books sitting on the shelf and rust-
ing—we want them to be out.”

The cost of automating the two
libraries was roughly $650,000. An annu-
al maintenance fee costs $36,000. The
online catalog modules were the first to
be installed; circulation, serials, and ac-
quisitions have come online since. High
on Brown’s list of priorities for 1993-94
is adding a periodical index to Annie.

“There are instances now where, if

something’s not available using comput-
er access, some students don’t want to
look it up,” Brown says. She recalls ask-
ing freshmen at their fall orientation
how many had used an online catalog
system before. “Three-quarters of the
hands went up,” she says—and that was
three years ago.

Bringing her staff up to speed amid
all the changes necessitates outside
workshops and in-house training. “In
the last year, particularly among the sup-
port staff, there’s not anyone whose job
is exactly the same,” Brown says.
“We've asked a lot of them to change
their ways and learn something new.”

“Even having just bought [the Annie
system] two years ago, we have a com-
puter budget request list that’s very
big,” she adds. “The vendor keeps add-
ing new features—things that make it
easier for students and faculty to be
more efficient.” And, much as anyone
hates to think about it, “there will come
a time when we will outgrow this sys-
tem, or it will become outmoded,”
Brown warns. “People expect it to last
forever.”

he two 25-foot-long walls of
loose-leaf reports that run from one col-
umn to the other outside Sally Wiant’s
office in the law library cost $90,000 a
year. The cost of replacing that is
expected to increase another 6 percent
this year.

Statutes and court reports alone fig-
ure to go up 4 percent annually. For ses-
sion laws (a chronological compilation of
laws passed during a legislative period),
Wiant and her staff buy heavily into
Virginia and its surrounding states,
which would have persuasive authority
in matters Virginia hasn’t dealt with;
California and New York, where legisla-
tion activity is very heavy; and Washing-
ton state, a leader in environmental leg-
islation, pollution and forest regulations.

Last September, the periodicals job-
ber, or supplier, that the libraries use
told its customers to prepare for a 10
percent to 15 percent price increase in
U.S.- and non-U.S.-published journals,
and at least a 28 percent increase in
European journals. As the dollar suffers,
so do the libraries. Subscription rates
abroad are expected to jump by 28 per-
cent next year (a 12 percent increase in
journal prices announced by European
publishers, coupled with a 16 percent
increase due to the lagging dollar).

What that means is a publication such
as Zoning Digest runs $220 a year. Supple-
ments to Moore’s Federal Practice, a classic
civil procedure piece, are up 175 percent
in five years. Murphy’s Will Clauses is up
225 percent in the same period.

Wiant’s library budget breaks down
into two broad categories. Continuations
are titles the library already owns and
needs to keep current. “This would
include periodicals, law reports, state
codes, records and briefs, and treatises,”
she says. Continuations make up better
than 80 percent of the library’s budget,
with the remainder going toward new
titles, which includes everything that’s
not a continuation. “And every time you
buy a new title,” Wiant notes, “it moves
from this list to continuations.” An ideal
ratio would be 75:25 continuations to

21

 

new titles, “but that would require new
money to get us to that ratio.”

(Over in the University Library,
Brown’s budget traditionally has been
fairly well split between monographs
and serials. The University Library car-
ries between 2,400 to 2,500 serial
titles—any manner of periodical that
comes out on a set published schedule,
be it weekly, monthly, or annually. But
subscription prices continue to cause
budgetary headaches, particularly with
the exchange rate: “Twenty-five per-
cent of our titles are foreign, and that
takes anywhere from 30-40 percent of
the money,” she says.)

Because of the need to have “abso-
lutlely” the most current legal informa-
tion, much of Wiant’s budget for the law
library is committed before the process
even begins. “We buy all the first law
reviews of each ABA school, and ‘big-
deal’ schools such as Harvard and Yale
print six, seven, eight journals a year,”
she explains. “And in addition to subse-
quent editions of existing books, new
books are coming out all the time. ”

Collections reviews are made periodi-
cally by broad subject category, and sel-
dom-used or duplicate titles are weed-
ed out to put efforts in more new dol-
lars. “Last summer we did everything
but academic law reviews.” A total of 86
periodicals—from Law in Japan ($9.50
per year) all the way up to Canadian
Current Law ($454.15)—were cancelled

at an expected savings of $8,660 yearly.

A statistical comparison of South-
eastern ABA schools’ law libraries (a
region including such heavy hitters as
the University of Virginia, North Caro-
lina, Vanderbilt, and Duke) shows that
Washington and Lee’s numbers stack
up favorably against most. The W&L
law library added 6,738 books last year.
Financially strapped UNC added
5,577.

In addition, W&L ranks No. 1 in
dollars spent per student, and 10th out
of 37 in dollars spent ($681,559) on
information (continuations, new titles,
electronic information retrieval services
such as Lexis, Westlaw and Dialog)—
more than Richmond or William and
Mary. The law library tapes up to 15
classes a day for use by students who
commute, students who miss classes
because of out-of-town interviews, and
even those students who sleep through
the occasional 8 o’clock class. (The
UVa law library, by comparison, has
only one video camera—and to get
that, it was obliged to tape all the
school’s basketball games.)

ilt as part of the last captial
campaign, the University Library was
completed in 1979 at a cost of about

 

Law librarian Sarah K. Wiant and her $90,000 shelves: Current can be costly.

22

$13 million. It will last well past the year
2000, thanks to the new science library
planned for the new science building,
That move will free up space presently
occupied by math and biology volumes,
as well as periodical back files on the
first lower level. Psychology—currently
located in the stacks under “B”—wjl]
go into the science building, too.

The libraries’ $9 million allocation in
the $127 million Campaign for Washing-
ton and Lee—$5 million for the under-
graduate library, and $4 million for the
law library—was based on what presi-
dent John Wilson saw in the libraries’
long-range plan “to maintain the level of
collections and services that we want,”
Brown says. “The electronic information
problem is at least as great as the price
increase of serials.”

Gifts expressly designated for the
libraries have been slow in coming so
far—barely $730,000 through March 1.
While memorial gifts occasionally come
to the library, interest from the library’s
current endowment only comes to about
$9,000 annually, according to Brown:
“We are essentially unendowed.”

Brown counts among the University
Library’s strengths its collections of U.S.
history, economics, and British and
American literature of the 19th and 20th
centuries. As new disciplines enter the
curriculum, such as East Asian studies
and Russian studies, the necessary steps
are taken to shore up those collections.
(In addition to the books found in the
main library, collections exist for jour-
nalism, commerce, and the chemistry,
geology, and physics departments.)

Because the law library burned (along
with the rest of Tucker Hall) in the
1930s, “the depth of the collection is not
what it might have been,” Wiant says.
“The library is able to acquire 18th- and
19th-century treatises only when anoth-
er library decides to weed multiple
copies and we get there to buy them
first.”

But she’s also got her eye trained on
the 21st century. “We need to be think-
ing more about libraries without walls,”
Wiant says, but promptly adds: “Of
course we will continue to buy books—
you simply cannot curl up in a chair with
a computer.”

 

 

fprememememmmescec:

  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  

dent of a local Civil War roundtable ts introduc-

Robert E. Lee Comes Alive
in the Hands of Sculptor
Roy Rudasill

ing the statue to his membership.
It’s a new experience for the 58-

year-old Rudasill, who teaches studio art

rs—as long as the and philosophy at the Southern
typi and lee educa- Virginia College for Women (the for-
Sin ; long, come to e mer Southern Seminary) in Buena
hin vil War—sculp- yy Vista. While he has exhibited his
dae struggled to get paintings in Roanoke and even a
Rob lifesize body cast in the Chrysler
! - experiment- Museum in the 1970s, General
aa - of material. Lee offered a different chal-
mat ‘fred and lenge—creating a sculpture for mass
mo 1 where it reproduction.
i t five gen- “Living in Lexington for 20 years,
erat s Rudasill you become saturated with Lee in many, many
fina ov medium ways—through the college, through tourists,” he
in sculpee—a says. Rudasill studied dozens of photographs and
dur ble materi- paintings before choosing the Minnis and
al 1 ired repeat- Cowell
edl terward. “It photograph
was x discourag- of Lee as the
ing lasill admits, basis for his
“by leased with statue. The
wh tr. It’s verv. sword is mod-
vel inted.” eled after the

its unveiling one on the

last Rudasill’s 12-inch, sarcopha-

CO tatue of General Lee gus at Lee

 

ger s worth close to $10,000 through Chapel,
Fis ited (18 Ridge Court, Lexington, while a statue of Lee at the rotunda of the
VA ily-owned business founded by Virginia State Capitol Building provided the

Ru Nancy, who processes orders and inspiration for the rear of his uniform.
hai ting (sons Chris and Roy III, like What next? Rudasill’s already at
th sts). work on a sculpture of George

o produce the statue in lots of 100 Washington as a companion piece to

i il run of 2,000 copies, and the early Lee—a project that, he promises, won't
re raging. The wife of a VMI alumnus take him four more years. He’s con-
e No. 57 to match her husband’s gradua- sidering a sitting pose after a Civil
_ lpha Order has shown an interest in War fan in Lynchburg offered him
off to its alumni network nation- a reminder of the anatomical real-
v racy buffs are taking ities of history. “General
n | Norfolk.-and Washington,” he says, “is
@) pic Seine an iad much taller than General
D) Lee.”

vner and presi-

23

3.

 

 

The Four-Legged Alumni

|

of Washington and Lee

By Dick Anderson

 

eS =a. E22 OS 12s

“It was kind of a losing proposition.”

E. Stewart Epley laughs about it
today, at the recollection of the most
unpopular decision of his six-year tenure
as treasurer of Washington and Lee, a
proclamation that generated howls of
protest —literally—throughout the
University community.

The time was December 1980, and
the problem was dogs: dogfights break-
ing out in Washington Hall; a mailman
ambushed outside the law school; and
perhaps worst of all, a pair of unautho-
rized deposits on the carpet inside
McCormick Hall.

At the customary ‘Monday lunch
meeting of the University hierarchy,
Epley argued that action should be
taken to curb the dogs. Epley lost a
“power struggle” with dean of students

24

Lewis G. John: “He argued it was cam-
pus property,” he recalls, “and campus
employees were my responsibility.”

Soon it appeared on bulletin boards
all over campus: Epley’s infamous dog
memo. The dog warden was coming to
campus on Monday, Dec. 15, and any
dog found wandering about without a
leash “will be considered fair game by
the warden,” according to The Ring-tum
Phi. Dogs were to be secured to a tree, a
building, or their owner. Dogs without
leashes would be fined—$5 for the first
offense, with fines going up by $5 for
each additional violation with a maxi-
mum penalty of $25. All unleashed
dogs, the notice proclaimed, would be
taken to the local SPCA.

Epley’s edict went over like a bow] of
Alpo in Evans Dining Hall. Students

and faculty alike showed their teeth on
the subject, and a cartoon depicted
Epley walking along the mall in front of
Stemmons Plaza, arm in arm with a
canine friend, who said to the embattled
treasurer, “Cheer up Stu—dogs will be
dogs.” (Epley has the cartoon framed
and hanging in his bar.) But his bark, it
turned out, was worse than his bite: By
the time classes resumed in January, the
controversy had been buried.

The last observation Epley heard on
the subject was from a student in his
office after the flap died down. Relating —
the place of campus dogs to the Univer-
sity’s heritage, the student noted, “Ob-
viously you are not a Washington and
Lee alumnus.”

“But,” the 1949 graduate corrected
him, “I am an alumnus.”

 

ih cael seein ti Ps as a A e 7

- i RON, fee
he oR * Ate

ah

a ‘ ». Kee rt aE ve
sate wd, BRA eed Paes ph ee

 

As long as there has been an Honor
System, as long as there has been a
speaking tradition (and longer still,
dog years) dogs have been a fixture
along the Colonnade. “Dogs have been
here forever,” says capital planning
assistant Frank A. Parsons, 54, a W&L
dog-watcher for more than four decades
(and whose trick-performing chow mix,
Boots, rolled over on camera for The
Spirit of Washington and Lee, an admis-
sions film and development tool for the
1959-60 campaign).

If there’s any doubt that tradition
continues today, consider these recent
dog tales:

¢ In the PA last spring, reporter-pho-
tographer Teresa Williams ’93 polled a
cross section of campus dogs with the
question, “Do you really enjoy hanging
out on the hill?” (“There’s no place else
that I’d rather be,” replied Ollie, the
sheepdog belonging to professor of
English H. Robert Huntley.) The spe-

cial Barkback column generated more
response, she says, than any other 7a/k-
back—including a Mock Convention fol-
lowup featuring Michael Dukakis, Tip
O’Neill, and Mario Cuomo.

e Under the headline “New Faculty
Appointments,” a dog identified as
“Willie” appeared (alongside Tammy
Faye Bakker) in last year’s April Fool’s
edition of the W@L Law News. Willie
“describes his teaching style as ‘gruff,’
and says he will be teaching courses on
‘Fighting Dogs and the Constitution,’
and ‘Contemporary Problems with
Rottweilers Under the Common Law.’ ”
Sharp-eyed law alumni weren’t fooled
by the pseudonym: They recognized
Bruno the Wonder Dog, owned by
Kevin Gray—who graduated from the
law school a decade earlier.

e And when Sam, a black lab mix
belonging to Andrew S. Lasine ’83L,
died in January at age 16, his master
promptly sent a class note to the A/umni

"ar b
ve ss bY is hee ey
ee ot ee

Fp

, ‘SA
‘ cm 9 + Bh aie
=
.

= _
7

‘

 

Magazine. “He had a lot of people
friends,” says Lasine—among them
retired Law School Dean Roy Stein-
heimer, for whom Sam demonstrated his
Frisbee skills on the field next to Lewis
Hall. (Steinheimer himself had a basset
hound named Charlotte.)

There are the unsung acts of hero-
ism—as when Beverly, a lemon-and-
white English pointer belonging to
Justin Adams ’70, ’76L, created a com-
motion in the bowels of old Tucker
Hall, where someone had created a
potential fire hazard in the form of an
abandoned coffee heater. More frequent
are the instances of dogs simply being
dogs: jumping through first-floor win-
dows into Newcomb Hall classrooms;
drinking out of the water fountain in the
C-School; or even, to visit Beverly once
more, sleeping under the table at a
Board of Trustees meeting.

These are our canii emeritii—the four-
legged alumni of Washington and Lee.

. ¥ . Ph SAG fo

RIES So Biase ees x yi no
rye 8 3S rS 4 i . ce
Pe ES SP

ra

oo -
5 as ie wate} a er
we “a .

A portrait of the law school, circa 1924—and a lawyer’s best friend. (Miley photo[W&L Special Collections)

26

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ae fassociaeates

VY ..- Douglas R. Schwartz ’74L was elected student

bod\
tion °
na-c!
paig!
two

H

me C:
in \
golde
struc!
tated
man
part
eral|:
ama:
lf
mig!
old.
of tl
then
75L.
Q
Spal
ter |
che
Stei:
brie!
sum!
rele;
mal
\\
ced:

ety

dent in 1973, he became the first law student to win elec-
vit attending W&L as an undergraduate. With his bandan-
‘der collie mix, Bernice, at his side throughout the cam-

~ frequently bandanna-clad Schwartz rolled past his nearest
«| competition in the first race by a 634-437 margin.

cost shree-legged competition got 12 write-ins.
\ad such a dramatic impact on the students,” recalls owner

vers Volley IIL ’75L, an attorney with Hunton & Williams
-ork. During his second year of law school, Tolley’s half-

\{-labrador retriever (named for his native Maryland) was
_ mail truck in Natural Bridge. His right rear leg was ampu-
ving Terp up for about two months—until he learned to

' with his remaining hind leg. “His chest and the forward

- body got unbelievably strong,” Tolley says. “He could lit-
on his hind leg—almost like a cane. Terp really was an
log.

.n amazing time to be a law dog. Wherever their owners
‘ound—in classrooms, carrels, even Law Review offices—
‘less ‘Tucker Hall was ideal for the counterculture canines

“von years. “There weren’t that many dogs, and most of
© pretty well-behaved,” recalls Christopher J. Habenicht

sc German shepherd, Hildy, took commands by eyebrow.

se, there was the occasional slip-up. Cisco, a springer
~onging to David M. Bradt Jr. °74L, accompanied her mas-
+s as a second-year pup, where her primary pastime was
‘he gum off chair bottoms. Then one day, in Dean
crs 8 a.m. Uniform Commercial Code class, she filed a
-speak, on the podium behind the dean, who nonchalantly
| Bradt to clean up after class. “After that point, Cisco was
‘© being tied up in front of the law school,” says Bradt, a tax

ith Arthur Andersen in the Washington, D.C., area.

_no-dogs-allowed policy enacted in the summer of °76 pre-
move to Lewis Hall, a number of dogs have gained notori-
‘c the normal legal channels. Sierra, a golden retriever

owned by Sam Lanier *80L, took it on himself to guard the loading
dock at the law library from all comers—including deliverymen.

But Sierra lacked the showmanship of Bruno, the half-beagle, half-
American fence jumper belonging to Kevin Gray ’82L. As a first-year
entrant in the annual Law Revue, Bruno wowed the crowd with his
vocalizing to the “Space” introduction to “Fly like an Eagle” by the
Steve Miller Band. But it was his offstage critique of a third-year’s
trumpet act, drowning out the music onstage, that made him a favorite
with the audience—and the judges, who awarded Bruno first place in
the annual talent show. “It was definitely a highlight,” Gray recalls.
(Bruno, alas, was a one-hit wonder, singing harmony on a Willie
Nelson number the following year and flopping.)

Bruno was popular with students on both sides of Woods Creek,
and was often greeted along the footbridge by people Gray had never
seen before. So why the tough-guy reputation as perpetuated by the
W&L Law News (“ready to bite any outstretched hand”)? “Bruno was
very picky,” Gray explains. “He had his own agenda, and he didn’t
have time for everybody.” He hastens to add, “I don’t think he ever
bit anybody—not at Washington and Lee.”

When Gray moved to Australia in 1986, he left Bruno, then 11 and
coming off an operation, with a friend stateside because of the quaran-
tine laws Down Under. “It was an extremely sad day when I had to
leave him,” says Gray, now an attorney with Lossing and Elston in San
Francisco. “He wasn’t friendly at all to strangers, but to the few peo-
ple he spent a lot of time with, he was an incredibly loyal dog.” About
three years ago, Bruno dug out of his fenced-in backyard and was
never seen again.

And what of his predecessors? While Cisco lived to the ripe age of
16 before matriculating to that great law school in the sky, her peers
were not as fortunate. erp underwent surgery for a serious liver prob-
lem in the summer in ’75 and was eventually put to sleep. And follow-
ing a big ham banquet at Smith Mountain Lake, Bernice died prema-
turely of pancreatitis at the age of 7. She is buried at Poor Mountain,
south of Roanoke, with two bandannas: one on her body and one on
her little stone marker.

27

“It’s a purebred foxhound—a fox-
hound, that’s what it is.”

While the walkways today might be
littered with seven strains of black
labs—the campus dog equivalent of
khaki pants and blue blazers—time was,
half a century ago, when a student could
buy a purebred from the legendary
Lexington breeder known to all as Herb
the Dog Man. Herb would frequent the
campus on weekends, when girls would
be visiting, pushing his small, cute pups
to their W&L boyfriends, as Charlie
McDowell ’48, recounted the story:

“Questions would arise,” McDowell
recalls, “and the boy would say, ‘Well,
now, wait a minute there, Herb, you said
that’s a purebred dog.’ And Herb would
say, ‘It certainly is, it’s a purebred fox-
hound—a foxhound, that’s what it is.’
And the guy would say, ‘How do I know
that?’ And Herb would always say,
‘Look at the freckles on his belly, that’s
a foxhound if I ever saw one.’ If there
was any question about the dog the

 

Andy (left) and Severn Duvall—
and an uninvited guest.

answer was always the same.”

There have been many notable
canine characters since. Tripod, a three-
legged dog of 1970s vintage, was so
prized as to be included as a scavenger
hunt item for Pi Kappa Alpha pledges.
But the most memorable—and contro-
versial—dog of that period didn’t much
resemble a dog at all. “Pig Dog looked
to the casual observer like a hampshire
shoat on the front lawn,” recalls one
alumnus. “Tourists would come to see
General Lee’s grave and say, ‘That
looks like a pig.’ ”

Unloved and unwanted by strangers,
Pig Dog was embraced by the W&L

community. Undergraduates nearly
elected him to a student body office,
and he was well-fed and looked after
until his mysterious disappearance one
summer. “I think the student body sus-
pected malfeasance by the administra-
tion,” says our source. “He was really a
handsome dog.

“He just happened to look like a pig.”

“AROOOOO ... AROOOOOO.. .”

Professor of politics emeritus Milton
Colvin does his best impression of “the
call” of Lumpi, the beagle-like bugler
who, for more than a decade until his
death in 1983, was the “dog of the
Colonnade,” in the words of his master.

“Lumpi loved something about
Washington and Lee,” Colvin says. “He
would follow me to school and come
into my lectures, and immediately lie
down in front of the podium and go to
sleep—which did not speak well for my
lectures.” While Colvin taught abroad
one year in Germany, Professor Barry
Machado’s family housesat for the
Colvins, “and with the house came
Lumpi. Barry Machado took over being
Lumpi’s best two-legged friend.”
Lumpi’s passing was thus noted in the
Alumni Magazine: “the School of Com-
merce will be a quieter place now that
his bugling has been stilled.”

Lumpi would have plenty of canine
company today, among them Bailey, a
cocker spaniel owned by associate pro-
fessor of psychology Nancy Margand;
Satz, a dachshund belonging to assistant
professor of mathematics Timothy A.
Murdoch; and Barney, a seven-year-old
golden retriever who began following
his master, University registrar D. Scott
Dittman, to work as a pup. Once Ditt-
man observed other faculty around with
well-behaved dogs, Barney (short for
Barnabas) was allowed to stay. “Barney
has a great rapport with the students,”
Dittman says. “People step over him
and pat him and talk to him. He opens
doors for me to students who wouldn’t
otherwise come in and helps me get to
know them on a different level.”

Following the death of President
Wilson’s dog, Sasha, late last year, the
senior dog among the faculty is probably
Andy, the red setter at the heel of pro-
fessor of English Severn P.C. Duvall.
Andy came to Duvall in October 1983 as
a gift from Ben Hale ’85, having been
ousted from the Sigma Chi house. “My
wife, my sister, and my daughter all

enveloped the dog,” Duvall recalls,
“and I had no choice.”

Andy comes to work most mornings ©
with Duvall, which would not be go ©
unusual but for the mode in which he
travels. “He does ride in the trunk of my —
car,” which folds down into the back
seat of his deep red Saab. “Now he’s
getting a little arthritic and prefers to go

in by way of the door.”

Canines have weathered the occa- —
sional setback—“On Oct. 8, 1850, facul-
ty ordered the clerk to require George
A. Baxter to remove his dog, as a cam-
pus rule forbade dogs on the campus,”
Ollinger Crenshaw writes in Genera] —
Lee’s College. |

The most famous dog that never was _
was foreshadowed in a letter from
Robert E. Lee dated Sept. 19, 1870,
General Lee wrote his nephew on what —
he called “the Dog question.” “(I)t is
not my purpose,” he wrote, “to put any
dog to towing canal boats or hauling dirt

carts, but want him to play the part of —

friend and protector. His disposition is
therefore of vital importance and he
ought not to be too old to contract a
friendship from, neither is his size so
important to me as a perfect form.” Lee
was expecting a St. Bernard or
Newfoundland puppy from a contact in
Maryland, but that dog probably never
arrived—for Lee died Oct. 12, less than
a month after writing this letter.

But the spirit of Lee lives on in his
canine charges on campus, as Frank
Parsons will bear witness. “In the mid-
70s, there were four or five dogs, a very
distinctive-looking, motley group, that
very faithfully came to school with their —
owners,” he recalls. “They would sit out
front of Payne Hall and Washington
Hall on real cold days, with their backs
to the building to catch the available
sun. They lined up and sat there and
looked down the hill and would sit there
for long periods of time.”

But what transpired one day “was a
remarkable evidence of communications
between dogs,” he says. As two of the
regulars were walking down toward Lee
Chapel, doing their little dog trot down
the walk, a third dog sat and watched
them from his post at the top of the hill.
The others stopped and signaled him
with a bark. The third dog rose to his
feet, made a diagonal path for the oth-
ers, “and they all three trotted down
toward Lee Chapel.”

  

Fy lhe Ballad of

He was the Lassie of the Lexington saloon scene, Benji on a binger—a purebred springer spaniel with
a personality too big for just one school. So widespread was his fame that his exploits became known
as “Chariicisms.” Many dogs have wagged their way along the Washington and Lee campus, but there
was only one Charlie Makinson.

“(1 knows, he was a character,” says Charlie’s owner, George Makinson, manager of Artists in
Cahoors in Lexington. “I don’t think he ever missed a beer party—or any other, for that matter.”

From «>. \lakinson home on Liberty Hall Road, which he came to as a pup in 1952, Charlie gradually
found ).s way down the hill and up the footbridge, and started attending a German class with
Makinson’s wife, Tommy.

Wirh or without his owner, Charlie became a regular in the classroom, concentrating in history and
the hum nities, and soon came to enjoy all the social perquisites of being a W&L “man.” For finals
dances onc June, Charlie had a front-row seat for Duke Ellington’s 4 a.m. concert on the footbridge.
Another time he slipped into the Phi Gam house

 

 

 

for a cocktail party, where Makinson eventually
found him in the backroom, “sitting in front of the
most beautiful redhead you ever saw,” drinking

 

scotch from a paper cup.

Charlic, from all appearances, had at least one
hollow leg. “He could smell a party three miles
out in the country,” Makinson claims. Girls would
take him back for an after-dance party and pin

their corsages on Charlie, then send him home ina
cab, his |\cgs going in all directions, “looking like a
well-dressed grave and drunker than a billy goat,”

 

 

 

he says. “He was a real lush.”
Charic’s destiny took an unexpected turn one
day when he strayed from the W&L campus. He
strolled onto the VMI parade grounds and soon
after into the barracks, where the jingle of his dog-
tags, not unlike the Officer of the Day, earned
him the nickname Charlie the Certified Dog. In the fall of 1955, following W&L’s de-emphasis of Charlie the Certified Dog and
footb. |. (charlie appeared during halftime, in Williamsburg, at the College of William and Mary, his VMI pals in happier days.
alongs) ‘he VMI cheerleaders in the VMI colors—bouncing Miss Mo, the Institute’s kangaroo mas-
Cot, out of a job.

‘hoo in March 1957, the unthinkable happened. Charlie fell victim to friendly fire—the acciden-
tal rec) one of a .58-caliber slug from the Civil War musket of a VMI cadet. The incident was kept

secre’ |). couple of weeks, until an angry George Makinson’s inquiries unearthed the truth: Charlie’s
body) been deposited without ceremony in the river. “It seems a shabby end for a mascot which
the calor. professed to love,” Makinson wrote the Rockbridge County News.

“Cor \c was a true friend of the Corps and his passing has not been lightly taken by us,” Russell
Davis, president of the VMI class of ’57, replied in a letter to Makinson’s young son, Dodd. “We are
NOC as . ous as the impressions that we sometimes give.” The letter was accompanied with a check
“With our hope that you can find a dog that will some day mean to you as much as Charlie did.” But
Charlic, of course, could never be replaced. He was eulogized in all manner of media, including a host

of W&I_—and VMI—publications. Said The Ring-tum Phi: “he will always hold a cherished spot in the
hearts 0; ~very W&L man who ever drank beer with him.” And 36 years later, he still does.

The

Generals
Report

By BRIAN LOGUE
AND JAY PLOTKIN ’92

For the Washington and Lee winter
sports squads, the 1992-93 season was
one of strong starts and even stronger
finishes. The men’s and women’s swim-
ming teams got off to fast starts and fin-
ished with their best records ever, and the
wrestling team recovered from early-sea-
son injuries to win its most matches since
the 1987-88 season. Only the basketball
team squandered its early promise, win-
ning three of its first four games before
losing 18 of its final 20.

 

 

 

Sophomore John Rowe turned in an All-
American performance for the undefeated

swim team.

30

VMen’s Swimming

Without one standout swimmer, the
Generals mixed depth with quality to
equal their best season ever. W&L fin-
ished 9-0, tying the 1959-60 team for the
best record in school history, and came
in third at the Division I Southern
States Championship meet held in
Davidson, N.C. W&L has won 14 con-
secutive dual meets dating back to last
season.

The Generals’ closest meet was a
109-95 win at Franklin & Marshall and
W&L’s average margin of victory
exceeded 37 points. W&L had six swim-
mers win two races in at least one meet
on the season to lead a balanced attack.

Three of the six swimmers posted
NCAA Division III Championship con-

sideration times. Senior co-captain
Andrew Pearson earned NCAA consid-
eration in the 50-freestyle, posting a
time of 21.74 seconds at the Southern
States Championships. Sophomore John
Rowe, an All-American last year in the
400-individual medley, posted a consid-
eration time in the 400-IM, swimming a
4:10.65 at Davidson. Craig Sears—
Rowe’s high-school teammate at
Westminster in Atlanta—capped an out-
standing freshman season with a time of
1:59.11 in the 200-IM to earn NCAA
championship consideration.

W&L also set a new school record in
the 200-free relay. Seniors Pearson and
Chris Hagge, sophomore Roland Chase,
and freshman David Stillman won the
event at the Southern States Champi-
onships with a time of 1:26.21, breaking
a four-year-old record.

Women’s Swimming

Despite having only eight swimmers,
coach Kiki Jacobs’ Generals proved
quality can overcome quantity. W&L
started the season by winning six
straight meets and finished with the
best record in school history, posting an
8-3 record.

At the end of the season, W&L domi-
nated the Atlantic States/Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Championships,
but their lack of numbers hurt. W&L
won 17 of 18 races and finished second
in the Atlantic States Championship,
but under a different scoring system fin-
ished third in the ODAC meet.

‘The Generals had four swimmers win
three individual titles each, two of
whom qualified for the NCAA Division
III Championships. Freshman Rebekah
Prince, senior Claire Dudley, and sopho-
mores Susan Fisher and Brandi
Henderson each won three ASC/ODAC
championships.

Prince and Dudley earned All-
America honors at the NCAA Division
Ill Championships held at Emory
University in Atlanta in March. Prince
earned first-team honors in the 100- and
200-yard backstroke, where she finished
seventh and sixth, respectively. She also
earned an honorable mention citation in

 

 

aw ee, ee eee ee

 

é Ae al Mm | y za é Gk

 

-
Pa
Lan?

S rk Connelly (34) was the most improved player on the Generals’ squad this year.

the 200-IM with a 15th-place finish to
become W&L’s second three-time All-
American. Dudley, a four-time national
qualifier, finished 16th in the 200-
breaststroke to earn honorable mention
All-America honors. She was also an All-
American in 1990.

Prince was the ASC/ODAC
Swimmer of the Year. In her college
debut, she set a new school record in
the 200 backstroke. By year’s end, she
had lowered the record by 11 seconds
and qualified for the NCAA champi-
onships with a time of 2:08.54. She fin-
ished the year with school records in the
100 back and the 200-IM.

Basketball

A season that began with much
promise ended in frustration for the
Generals. After falling to Trinity 71-63
in its opener Nov. 20 in San Antonio,
the Generals put together a string of
wins over Hamline, Minn. (56-53),
Sewanee (85-75) and a surprising upset
over Bridgewater (67-54). But W&L lost
many heartbreakers en route to a 5-19
Season.

A 75-73 loss to Hampden-Sydney
Dec. 3 was the first of several close loss-
es. W&L had a chance to win the game
With a three-pointer, but missed twice
from bonus territory in the closing sec-
Onds. W&L then suffered a six-point
loss to Guilford, a one-point loss to

Millsaps and a two-point loss at the
buzzer to Mary Washington before snap-
ping a seven-game losing streak Jan. 13
with a win over Lynchburg, 87-77.

The momentum from that win was
short-lived, though, as W&L lost seven
straight before nipping Lynchburg, 58-
57, on Mark Connelly’s three-pointer at
the buzzer. After losing at Roanoke
W&L put together one of its best games
Feb. 15 in a 79-74 loss at Queens
College in Charlotte, N.C. W&L trailed
by just three against the 20-win,
Division II squad with possession in the
final seconds, but a three-pointer fell
short and W&L was forced to foul. ‘Two
nights later, W&L’s hopes for making

the ODAC tourney ended with a 71-68
loss to Eastern Mennonite in overtime.

Senior Bryan Watkins led the
Generals in scoring, averaging 10.6
points a game, followed by sophomore
forward Connelly with 10.3 points and
4.8 rebounds. Junior center Robert
Miggins averaged 9.7 points and 7.3
rebounds (seventh in the ODAC).
Freshmen Cam Dyer (8.7 ppg) and
Derek Carter (8.0 ppg) both showed
promise for future seasons.

Wrestling

After an injury-marred start to their
winter campaign, the Generals got
healthy and put together their best sea-
son in five years, winning four dual
meets.

Freshman Rob Sands put together
the best season by a first-year student
since Steve Castle in 1984-85. He won
19 matches and led the team in every
offensive statistical category. Wrestling
at 126 Ibs., Sands placed seventh at the
Lebanon Valley tournament in
December, third at the W&L Invita-
tional, and second in the Virginia State
Championships. He capped his season
by reaching the semifinals of the NCAA
Division III regional meet.

Also making it to the regional were
sophomores Adam Williams and Eric
Shirley. Williams recovered from an

 

Owen Smith (158 1b.) controls his Newport News Apprentice opponent at the WEL
Invitational. The W&L freshman won five of his matches.

31

early-season knee injury to finish 8-7 on
the season at 142 lbs. Williams finished
second in both the W&L Invitational
and the Virginia State Championships.

Shirley was one of W&L’s most con-
sistent wrestlers. At 134 Ibs., he reached
the finals of both the W&L Invitational
and the Virginia State Championships
and tied for the team lead in pins.

Other Generals with solid seasons
were freshman Colin Looney, sopho-
more Lea Abercrombie, and freshmen
Curt Futch and Owen Smith. Looney
joined the team late and went 6-3 on the
season at 190. Abercrombie posted five
wins this season after not winning at all
as a freshman. Futch also posted five
wins, as did Smith, who finished second
at 158 in the W&L Invitational.

Indoor Track and Field

The Washington and Lee women’s
team won its fourth straight Old
Dominion Athletic Conference indoor
championship, while the men finished
in third place.

Sophomore co-captains Sarah Gilbert
and Kim Herring paced the women’s
effort. Gilbert scored a meet-high 34 1/2
points by herself, winning the long jump
and high jump and placing in several
other events. Herring won the 400- and
800-meter runs in conference record-
setting times and anchored the winning
4x 100 and 4 x 400 relay teams.

Freshman Josephine Schaeffer (page
33) set conference records in the 1,500-
and 3,000-meter runs, narrowly missing
the national qualifying time in the
1,500. She also anchored W&L’s win-
ning 4 x 800 team.

‘The men’s team was led by freshman
Dax Mahoney, who won the 400-meter
dash and anchored W&L’s winning 4 x
400 team in conference record time.
David Phillips, Scott Covey and Grant
Cowell rounded out the 4 x 400 team.

The Generals also got second-place
finishes from Harrison Shull (high
jump), Covey (55-meter high hurdles),
Cowell (800-meter run), Bo Hannah
(3,000-meter run), and the 4 x 100 relay
team of Covey, Mahoney, John
Robinson and Hayne Hodges.

Basketball (5-19)

Men’s Swimming (9-0)

Women’s Swimming (8-3)

Wrestling (4-6)

 

Law professor Jim Phemister is getting used to the question by
now. The subject has nothing to do with the admissibility of out-of-
court statements by young children in abuse cases, or any of the other
legal issues that Phemister is currently studying.

You see, Phemister also doubles as the women’s cross-country
coach at Washington and Lee, and the question everyone’s been ask-
ing him is: “How in the world did you get her?”

“Her”’—or rather, “she”—is running sensation Josephine
Schaeffer, who shattered every W&L cross-country record along the
way to earning All-
America honors, and
is presently taking
aim at the W&L
track record book.

Phemister, it
turns out, had the
odds in his favor.
Josephine’s father is
1964 W&L graduate
Fred Schaeffer of
Memphis. That,
coupled with the fact that Josephine prefers the Division III philoso-
phy of athletics over the Division I model, are two of the reasons that
W&L landed its star runner over competing Vanderbilt.

“I’ve always loved running,” says Schaeffer, “and I wanted to con-
tinue to enjoy it and not feel like it was a job. I didn’t want to put
myself in a position where I’d end up hating it.”

And for that, Phemister will be eternally grateful. “It was clear
from the very beginning that she was a gifted runner,” he recalls.
“She was content to run with the pack, but at our first time trial she
fan three minutes faster than anybody ever had.”

More important to the team, everybody was running faster. “She
and the entire freshmen crew deserve a lot of credit for the team’s
* says Phemister, who guided W&L to its second Old
Dominion Athletic Conference title in the last three years. “They
fame in ready to work hard and helped lift the whole level of the

assertiveness,’

On the Fast Track

Freshman Running Sensation Josephine Schaeffer
Blazes Through the W&L Record Books

 

 

team. We had never finished better than sixth at the regionals, and we
were disappointed this year when we finished third.”

Schaeffer won the individual regional title by nearly 30 seconds
over her closest competitor to become the first W&L female runner to
qualify for the national meet. She finished 12th at that meet to become
W&L’s first female All-American in cross country. Over the course of
the season, she won seven of the nine races she entered. The only
time she lost was at the national meet and at the ODAC championship
where she lost a sizable lead by . . . getting lost. She ran off course and
finished ninth to put
a minor blemish on
an otherwise perfect
season in which she
lowered the school
record from 19:09 to
17:54.

During the
winter sports season,
Schaeffer carried
over her success to
the track. She led
the W&L women to their fourth straight ODAC Indoor Champi-
onship in late February by winning the 1,500-meter and 3,000-meter
runs, anchoring a first-place 4 x 800 relay team. All three victories came
in conference record time.

John Tucker ’77, W&L’s women’s track coach, is as appreciative of
Schaeffer’s efforts as he is for her effect on her teammates. “The ripple
effect is very apparent,” he says. “The other runners see that part of
the reason she’s so good is because she works so hard.”

The hard work doesn’t seem all that hard to the Dean’s List stu-
dent. Running is something she loves, and she hopes to learn as much
as she can about running for an eventual teaching and coaching career.
But right now, she’s content to just keep having fun at her father’s
alma mater. “It’s been everything I dreamed and more,” says
Schaeffer, referring to her first few months in Lexington. “It’s been
the best experience of my life.” —By Brian Logue

33

Alumni News

Louisville Sluggers: A Host
of MVPs Lead W&L’s Small
Chapter of the Year

Twenty years ago, when high school
senior Barry Barlow was looking at col-
leges, Washington and Lee was at the
top of his list. “I had known so many
people that were going there,” recalls
the Louisville, Ky., native and 1977
W&L graduate. “One reason we’ve got
such a strong alumni group here is the
broad-based support that we have in the
various age categories.”

These days Barlow is at the fore of
that support, as president of the
Louisville alumni chapter. His efforts,
and those of many area alumni, were
recognized recently as Washington and
Lee’s Small Chapter of the Year for
1991-92. In ceremonies held Jan. 14 at
the Pendennis Club, the Louisville
chapter drew close to 100 people,
including President John Wilson and
James D. Farrar Jr. °74, W&L’s director
of alumni programs. (Washington, D.C.,
W&L’s Large Chapter of the Year, will
be feted in ceremonies later this year.)
“This is the kind of support we hope for
from all chapters,” says Farrar.
“Louisville has set a strong example for
others to follow.”

Louisville has been a model of con-

sistency in bringing alumni together,
hosting no fewer than eight chapter
events last year. Two chapter-wide
newsletters spread the W&L gospel,
and a strong alumni admissions program
headed by prodigal son Powell Starks
’83, °88L keep student recruitment lev-
els high: Louisville accounted for 29
applicants for 1992-93.

In the area of Annual Fund support,
Louisville ranks fourth among all chap-
ters in percentage of participation (42.8
percent), and 10th in total dollars
($51,000), “which is remarkable for a
chapter of approximately 200 alumni,”
Farrar says. “They do a lot of good work
in encouraging their members to give to
the Annual Fund without regard to fra-
ternity or class structure. They approach
it from the chapter point of view.”

Louisville’s success can be traced to
its leadership. In addition to Barlow and
Starks, the Louisville chapter boasts
such alumni leaders as Doug Madison
72, secretary/treasurer of the group; past
chapter president Neal Cory, Barlow’s
classmate and co-worker, who currently
serves on W&L’s alumni board; and A.
Stevens Miles Jr. ’51, rector of the Board
of ‘Trustees. “They’ve got solid leader-
ship,” Farrar says, “and the alumni there
support them. It’s a good example of a
strong team effort.”

Barlow echoes that sentiment. “This
small chapter honor is not a function of
any one factor,” he says. “I wish I could
say it was Neal or me, but that’s just not
the case.”

 

Kentucky gentlemen: President John Wilson (right) recognizes (from left) current Louisville
chapter president Barry Barlow ’77, former chapter president and current Alumni Board
member Neal Cory ’77, and Rector A. Stevens Miles Jr. ’51.

34

Chapter of the Year

Small Chapter of the Year
1991-92: Louisville

1990-91: San Diego

1989-90: Middle Tenn./Nashville
1988-89: Winston-Salem
1987-88: Palmetto/Columbia
1986-87 San Diego

Large Chapter of the Year
1991-92: Washington, D.C.
1990-91: Houston

1989-90: Atlanta

1988-89: Fla. West Coast/Tampa
hl r sete 1) ae hela

1986-87: New Orleans

 

-

 

Sou ort and JubiLee members during a stopover in Houston: Either you're on the bus or you're off the bus.

Singing for Their Suppers

On the Washington and Lee calendar, it’s listed as
Undergraduate Washington Break. But for the 23 members of
Southern Comfort and JubiLee, W&L’s renowned choral
groups, Feb. 12-20 was instead the George Washington
Concert Tour—eight alumni chapters in eight harried days.
What’s a singer to do between choruses of the “Swing?” W&L
asked JubiLee member Robyn McCord, a senior from
Houston, to keep a journal on the road, and here’s what she
sent us from the cocktail circuit:

2, Charleston, W.Va.: Southern Comfort gives a
short afternoon concert at a downtown shopping center. A mall
chick scoping the view is overheard singing the praises of
senior Chris Cox. That night, the Charleston alumni chapter
gives us a great kickoff, fun, frolicking and food. A night on
the town follows. Saturday morning’s 8 o’clock wake-up call
comes terribly early.

), Lexington, Ky.: We go looking for the Galleria
and were informed that we needed to go to Louisville to find
it. Following our performance at the Lafayette Club, the
seniors spend the night at the Lexington Radisson compli-
ments of local alumnus Woodford Webb ’90, and declare it
official Senior Night at Patino’s, a late-night piano bar.

', Memphis, Tenn.: A six-hour bus ride leaves us
arriving at the Memphis Country Club looking a little rough
around the edges. Members go for a walk around town and are
told they resemble the Brady Bunch. (Is that our new image?)
Following a performance at the Pink Palace Museum, we
spend a fun-filled evening singing and making merry at the
home of JubiLee alumna Meriwether Nichols °93.

», Dallas: Another long trek, followed by a quick
cleanup prior to Monday night’s performance at the Petroleum
Club, a beautiful setting overlooking the Dallas skyline. All 11
members of JubiLee shower in one hour—with only one
shower. That must be some sort of record.

February 16, Houston: Following a Tex-Mex lunch, we per-
form at Episcopal High School. JubiLee impresses the young
male students. We regroup at junior Fred Woods’ home and
await the evening’s festivities. The Cadillac Bar and Party
Shack is the setting that night, an informal and fun locale. A
swimming outing concludes our day with dinner and swimming
at the home of me and my sister, Becca (95).

February 17, New Orleans: Another long drive leaves us very
little prep time. ‘The New Orleans chapter hosts its event at the
glorious J. Edgar Monroe home. (The event was dedicated to
the memory of Benjamin C. Eastwood ’29.) What a great way to
kick off Mardi Gras. After the party, the whole group heads for
the French Quarter. Rather than staying with our local alumni
families, which is the norm, Southern Comfort and JubiLee
spend the night at the DoubleTree Hotel. A very wise move by
the Alumni Office, if you ask us.

February 18, Atlanta: A few hours’ sleep, and then it’s off at
7:30 a.m. for the longest and hardest bus ride of the whole trip.
We pull ourselves together to sing at the Peachtree Club, and
Jennifer Ray hosts yet another party for Southern Comfort and
JubiLee afterward.

February 19, Raleigh, N.C.: Our final stop. As tired as we are,
it has been such a fine trip, and we’re sad to see it drawing to a
close. Thanks to several alumni, who loan us their cars, we
spend our last night frolicking in the capital city.

February 20, Homeward bound: As we head back to
Lexington, we all get a bit nostalgic. Our week has been incred-
ible. From our bus driver, Pappy, and Rob Mish and Matt
Felber from the Alumni Office, to all the wonderful alumni and
host families, our magical bus tour was an unforgettable experi-
ence. Southern Comfort and JubiLee want to thank everyone
involved for the time and energy that made the Washington’s
Birthday ‘Tour possible—and as a sentimental senior, thanks for
the great memories.

35

Chadwick Inducted into
Lacrosse Hall of Fame

Sterling H. “Skeet” Chadwick ’74
became the second W&L graduate to be
inducted into the Lacrosse Hall of Fame
at ceremonies Feb. 6 in Baltimore. The
two-time first-team All-American goalie
(1973 and 1974) received the
C. Markland Kelly Award as
the nation’s top goalie and was
W&L’s MVP that season.
Chadwick was inducted as “a
truly great player.”

Chadwick played in the
1974 North/South Collegiate
All-Star Game, then traveled
to Australia with the U.S. team
for the 1974 World Lacrosse
Championships. He played for
the Chesapeake Lacrosse
Club from 1975 to 1979, and
was selected all-Club three
times.

Chadwick was the execu-
tive director of the Lacrosse
Foundation from 1975 to 1977,
and the director of Hero’s Inc.,
from 1982 to 1985. He was
selected for the U.S. team, but
did not play in the 1978 World
Lacrosse Championships.

with a cocktail party and barbecue at the
W&L Alumni House on campus.
Golfers will spend Friday night in air-
conditioned Gaines Hall. Following
breakfast the next morning, golfers will
depart for Hot Springs for the first
round. Saturday night’s activities in-
clude a cocktail party and dinner and

~

oe.
~®*
**

> “te ,
< .
~ bd

 

-oo8t Vall of Fame

ers

 

 

“It’s very humbling to
receive an award like this,”
Chadwick said in his remarks. “I’m very
grateful to my teammates for the sup-
port they gave, as well as the support
that was shown to me and our team by
the W&L community.”

Chadwick joins teammate Ted Bauer
°74, who was inducted in the Hall of
Fame last year. The W&L lacrosse team
went 50-7 during the four-year career of
former coach Jack Emmer, who induct-
ed Chadwick.

Tee Time Draws Closer
For W&L Open

The W&L Open, a 36-hole golf tour-
nament open to all alumni and friends of
the University, will be played July 23-25
at the prestigious Cascades Course at
‘The Homestead in Hot Springs, Va.

The event begins on Friday, July 23,

36

Skeet Chadwick ’74 (seated), WEL’s newest
member of the Lacrosse Hall of Fame, and

coach Jack Eemmer. at ceremontes Feb. 6.

lodging at the Cascades Inn. Following
breakfast Sunday morning, golfers will
tee off for the second and final round.
An awards ceremony will take place
immediately following the tournament,
which should be completed by 3 p.m.

The cost for the W&L Open is $295
per golfer. That price includes four
meals and two cocktail receptions, lodg-
ing Friday and Saturday night, 36 holes
with cart, golf bag handling, prizes, and
other giveaways.

Reservations and payment for the
W&L Open must be made with the
W&L Alumni Office no later than
Friday, June 18. All questions regarding
the Open should be directed to the

 
   

Alumni Office at (703) 463-8464, or by
fax at (703) 463-8473.

The W&L Open should not be con-
fused with the World Cup Invitational,
to be held earlier in July for Alumnj
College participants.

Cake and Candles
For the Generals

Robert E. Lee’s 186th birth-
day—Jan. 19 on the calendar—
was celebrated many times
over at chapter outings in
Jacksonville, Fla. (Jan. 13, at
the home of Chris and Billy
Ball ’69), Louisville (Jan. 14),
Peninsula (Jan. 15, featuring
Southern Comfort), Tucson
(Jan. 15, at the home of Mary
and Al Perry °44), San Antonio
(Jan. 15, with mathematics pro-
fessor Robert S. Johnson),
Washington, D.C. (Jan. 16),
Delmarva (Jan. 16, in Easton,
Md., with dean of the college
John W. Elrod), Dallas (Jan. 19,
at the Boardwalk Beach Club
owned by Steve Scully ’76),
Keystone (Linglestown, Pa.,
Jan. 19, featuring Jim Farrar Jr.
°74); New York (Jan. 21, fea-
turing professor of politics Bob
Strong), Atlanta (Jan. 22, at the home of
Eileen and Bo DuBose °62), Houston
(Jan. 28, with law school dean Randall P.
Bezanson), Middle Tennessee (Jan. 30,
with professors Holt Merchant ’61 and
‘Taylor Sanders), and Roanoke (Feb. 6,
again with Merchant and Sanders).

Washington’s Birthday celebrations
were held in Winston-Salem (Feb. 6,
with athletic director Mike Walsh, at the
home of Gina and John Cocklereece Jr.
76, ’79L). Generals Birthday receptions
in Baltimore (Feb. 13, at the Stevenson,
Md., home of Elizabeth and Barton
Mitchell) and Detroit (Feb. 20) honored
both of W&L’s namesakes.

W&L alumni celebrated with gradu-
ates of their brother and sister Virginia
colleges at an Old Dominion Party spon-
sored by the Virginia Club of St. Louis
Jan. 16; and at Commonwealth Day IX
in Columbia, S.C., Feb. 6.

 

    

Da) ers: Five Atlanta alumni

from Peachtree Street—out-

wen!

side Sonora, on the west coast of
Mext pllowing a morning dove
hunt barles W. “Chuck” Kuhn
70, 1 “Bo” DuBose Ill ’62,
Rober ytine °79, Michael D.

Arm and Thomas M. Pearce ’85.

 

Seven n: from left, Samuel L.

Perki 83L,, Grover C. Baldwin ’40,
47L, lip L. Hanranhan ’76, ’86L
trad the Lexington, Ky., stop of the
Sout/ fortlubiLee tour Feb. 13.

 

Assis, mnt director Rob Mish ’76
(left) ' Robert A. Finkle ’82, Robert
G. G) , and David J. Sorrells ’80 to
the fip irmance of the Southern

Com} Lee tour Feb. 19 in Raleigh.

 

*

*

.

sittin

?

a
"
3
Se
.

In Atlanta Feb. 18, former Southern

Comfort member Alex C. Hitz ’91 (center) ts
joined by Michael D. Armstrong ’77 and

wife Jane. Since graduating from W&L,

Hitz has opened a restaurant tn Atlanta.

 

The Philadelphia Story: Chapter president
Roger Reynolds ’88 (right) welcomes (1-r)
Chris Lee ’71, Stuart Bracken ’54, and
Alumni Board member Bill Russell ’57 to
the Racquet Club in Center City March 5.
Dean of the college John Elrod brought a
University update, and was joined by alum-

ni director Jim Farrar ’74, vice president

for university relations Farris Hotchkiss

‘58, and associate director of development
Tom Jennings.

 

In Charleston, §.C., Southern Comfort mem-
ber Lewis Perkins °93 (left) chats it up with
Bruce R. Walker ’81L and Shawn P. George
'81L. Southern Comfort and JubiLee played
the Spoleto city Feb. 12.

 

Impressions of Emeriti: Trustee emeritus
Jack Warner °41, center, visits with Mid-
South chapter president Louis Jehl ’84, and
his wife, Julie, at the Memphis Country Club
on Nov. 14, 1992, prior to the opening of
Warner’s exhibit, “Impressions of America,”
at the Dixon Gallery and Gardens in
Memphis the following day.

 

Pittsburgh alumni L.V. “Buck” Buchanan
Jr. °57 (left, with wife Marsha) and Marc
Pennell ’78 (with wife Leshe, right) share a
smile at an alumni gathering March 3.

37

Class Notes

’
Zo

Frank T. Mitchell

of Naples, Fla., reports that age has

restricted his activities to some

extent, but he occasionally manages

to play nine holes of golf with his

wife, Ada Mae.

Dr. Andrew T. Roy

of Upper St. Clair, Pa., is writing
poetry feverishly and has won a few
prizes.

’
oe

J. Preston Moore

and his wife, Ann, have moved to a

new retirement home called The
Colonnade in Charlottesville, Va.

J. Arthur Smith Jr.
of Baton Rouge, La., is an agent
emeritus with Prudential Insurance.

’
2Y

Dr. Charles V. Amole

is happily retired and lives in

Chawbrel, a retirement home in
Williamsburg, Va.

Thomas J. Morrison Jr.

is retired and enjoys playing golf in
Coral Gables, Fla. He and his wife,
Elizabeth, recently celebrated their
50th wedding anniversary and are
proud great-grandparents.

William G. Sargent

of Flushing, N.Y., reports that he is
enjoying his retirement with his
family—four children, 16 grandchil-
dren, and 22 great-grandchildren.

James M. Shackelford

lives with his wife at the
Westminster Village Retirement
Community in Clarksville, Ind.

’
30

Charles W. Cocke

of Thomasville, Ga., reports that he

was lucky to survive an automobile

collision with a logging truck. Cocke

suffered a broken shoulder in the

accident, and his doctor ordered him

to stay off the golf course for nine

weeks.

Dr. John P. Davis
is medical director of an insurance
company in Winston-Salem, N.C.

Edward F. Pilley

is enjoying retirement with his “rel-
atively new wife of 12 years” in
Lubbock, Texas. He reports that
there is one copy of his autobiogra-
phy left, which he will send upon
request.

’
af

Stanley D. Waxberg

is special counsel to Kayz, Scholer,

Fierman, Hays & Handler in New
York.

’
32

Kenneth R. Routon

divides his retirement between

homes in Huntington, N.Y., and

Key West, Fla. He still loves to hunt

and fish and recently shot an eight-

point buck near his boyhood home

in Virginia.

J. Bernard Spector
lives in Miami Beach, Fla., where he
is still trying to shoot his age in golf.

Haven Walton
and his wife, Elaine, are enjoying
their retirement in New Orleans.

Sherwood W. Wise

has written a history of his Jackson,
Miss., law firm, Wise, Carter, Child
& Caraway, which was founded in
1883. He has also written a sesqui-
centennial history of the Cathedral
Church of St. Andrew, the cathedral
church for the Diocese of
Mississippi.

’
33
Dr. C. Frederick Irons Jr.
has retired from active practice and
now is employed as an auditor of
records at East Carolina University
School of Medicine in Greenville,
N.C.

Dr. John A. Womeldorf

is retired and recovering from a bro-
ken hip in his apartment in
Harrisonburg, Va.

’
34

Holmes M. Dyer

is looking forward to playing class-

mate George Reynolds in the 80-

and-over age group of the National

Tennis Tournament. Dyer lives in

Sarasota, Fla.

Foster McCrum Palmer
recently visited Alaska and Hawaii,
the only two states he had never
seen.

Edwin H. Pewett
is retired and living with his wife of
54 years in Chevy Chase, Md.

George L. Reynolds

of Haddonfield, Fla., battled back
from several injuries to compete in
national and regional competitions
sponsored by the U.S. Tennis
Association. Reynolds competed in
nine Florida tournaments in the 80-
85 age group, winning five in the
singles competitions; he also won all
seven doubles tournaments with his
partner, Walter Cavanaugh. The

pair later won the doubles competi-
tion at Longwood Cricket Club in
Brookline, Mass., and at the
National Grass Courts at the
Agawam Hunt in East Providence,
R.I.

JA4L

Robert D. Bailey
continues to practice law in
Pineville, W.Va.

Sherwood W. Wise
See °32.

’
35

James S. Woods Jr.

is enjoying his retirement in Sun

City West, Ariz.

36
Harold O. Danielson

is moving to Grace Ridge, a retire-
ment facility in Morganton, N.C.

Walter B. Eager

writes two fishing columns a week
for the local newspaper in Vero
Beach, Fla. He recently attended a
reunion in Orlando of the 390th
Bomb Group veterans, which flew
more than 300 missions in World
War IL.

Henry H. Staehling

of Bedminster, N.J., is a consultant
to D.P. Facilities, which designs and
builds computer facilities.

Charles A. Sweet

of Englewood, Fla., reports that he
continues to fish for trout, just like
he used to with William R. Sphar Jr.
*35, in Virginia’s Laurel Run and
Bratton Run. Last spring, he fished
in Chile’s Andes Mountains.

’
37
Parke S. Rouse Jr.’s
1972 book, The Great Wagon Road,
has been reprinted by Dietz Press
in Richmond. The book is a history
of the colonial settlement route
southward through the Appalachian
Mountains, by which much of
Pennsylvania, Virginia, and the
South were settled.

John J. Vandale

of Amarillo, Texas, is still active in
oil and gas production in Texas,
Oklahoma, and Kansas.

’
38

Dr. Albert A. Pollack

of New York does consulting for the

Federal Reserve System’s long-term

disability system and occasionally
for some insurance companies.

7

Dr. Chester Schept

and his wife are retired and spend
their free time volunteering for the
United Cerebral Palsy of Queens,
N.Y.

R. Edward Surles

recently enjoyed study tours of
Egypt and the Galapogos Islands.
He still maintains a full-time law
practice and raises cattle on his farm
in Summerville, Ga.

Calvert Thomas

works on a part-time basis with his
two sons, Bowie and Doug Thomas,
74, °77L, at Thomas Cadillac Ine. in
Hartford, Conn. ‘Thomas reports
that he enjoys good health and varij-
ous activities and hopes to attend
his 55th reunion this year.

Ernest B. Walker Jr.

has formed a partnership in
Louisville, Ky., that builds commer-
cial housing. He also attended last
summer’s Alumni College on
ancient Egypt.

SSL

Walter B. Eager
See °36.

’
IY

George C. Kerr

continues to enjoy his retirement

living in Pennsylvania’s Amish

country. On a recent trans-Panama

Canal cruise, he was surprised to see

Harry Philpott ’38, whom he had

not seen in more than 50 years.

George W. Wilson

spends nine months a year in
‘Tampa, where he acts as a mediator
for the 13th Judicial Court one day a
week. He and his wife, Helen,
spend their summers in northern
Michigan.

39

The Hon. John D. Goodin
practices law in Johnson City,
‘Tenn., and volunteers at the
Veterans Administration.

Philip M. Grabill
practices law in Woodstock, Va.

’
40
Charles R. Disharoon

recently celebrated his 50th anniver-
sary with his wife, Mary, in Maui.

Homer D. Jones Jr.

and his wife, Helen, spent their 51st
anniversary at the Ventana at Big
Sur. On a plane to San Francisco,
Jones ran into Ray Steege 39 and
his wife, Elizabeth.

;

4]
Stephen E. Campbell Jr.
recently moved to Venice, Fla., |
because of his rheumatoid arthritis,
but he will spend his summers in

Massachusetts.

William L. Evans Jr. :
reports that he still practices a little
law, invests a little, and does a lot of
“honey do’s” in Fort Worth, Texas.

Robert C. Petrey
js counting down the last few

months of his second term as an
alderman in Kingsport, Tenn., with
no plans to run for re-election.

Edward H. Trice Jr.

reports that he is solidly retired and
plays lots of tennis and bridge. ‘Trice
lives in Vero Beach, Fla., but spends
his summers in Lake Placid, N.Y.

’ 4 9
James S. Hill

is enjoying his retirement with his
grandchildren in Covington, Ky.

Giles S. McCrary’s

eclectic collection of artifacts from
his worldwide travels—everything
from a porcelain rattlesnake to
Faberge eggs—is on permanent dis-
play at the OS Ranch Foundation
Museum in Lubbock, Texas. The
former Post, ‘Texas, mayor set up
the museum as a tax-exempt educa-
tional and cultural entity.

9 ;
43 (REUNION)

Richard J. Bromley

reports that he still travels a lot. He
spends his winters in Higganum,
Conn., and his summers in Hilton
Head, S.C.

Joseph E. Lee

is retired and living in Minneapolis,
where he is still active in the Service
Corps of Retired Executives.

Alexander M. Maish

of Arlington, Va., has spent a great
deal of time on the water as of late.
Last June, he and his wife,
Elizabeth, helped another couple
sail from Hampton, Va., to New
York, and crewed a large sloop
through the Virgin Islands in July.
In September, the Maishes spent
four days with friends on a Dutch
barge yacht in Alsace.

William J. Noonan

of Pensacola, Fla., reports that he
and his wife enjoy traveling, floral
gardening, and their 13 grandchil-
dren. He does some developing, and
IS active in church, civic work, and
the Rotary Club.

Richard M. Roberts
Is enjoying his retirement in sunny
Nokomis, Fla. He reports that after

four years of Florida sunshine, it
would be very difficult to return to
the North.

Patrick C. Warfield

spends most of the year on his boat
between Maine and Florida.
Warfield is a retired Hollywood film
and multimedia producer.

John E. Zombro

of Rancho Palos Verdes., Calif., is
retired and enjoys playing golf and
bridge.

’
44

William R. Malloy

has completed his 15th year of daily

clay tennis court maintenance on

Hilton Head Island, the past 11 of

which were with the Long Cove

Club.

Norvelle W. Moses
is retired and living in San Antonio,
‘Texas.

Grant E. Mouser Ill

is president of the Williamsburg
chapter of the Sons of the American
Revolution. He is also a part-time
lecturer at the College of William
and Mary and serves on the James
City County Republican
Committee.

’
45

Douglas W. Booth

recently retired as president of

Duke Power Co. He is currently a

Republican commissioner on the

Mecklenburg County board in

Charlotte, N.C.

Owen R. Easley Jr.

is retired and living in Chesapeake,
Va., where he and his wife do chari-
ty work.

Dr. Benjamin M. Kaplan

has a private cardiology practice and
also serves as a professor of clinical
medicine at Northwestern
University Medical School in
Illinois.

Dr. S. Allan McAllister

is enjoying retirement life with his
winters in Deland, Fla., and his
summers on Lake Pond in Mt.
Desert, Maine.

Elliot 8. Schewel

was elected chairman of the Virginia
Senate Committee on Education
and Health. Now in his 17th year as
a senator, Schewel also serves on the
finance, commerce and labor, gener-
al laws, and rules committees.

’
46
Sherman J. Smith
is a semi-retired mortician in

Rochester, N.Y. He is looking for-
ward to his 50th reunion in 1996.

’
4/

J. William Dosell

recently published his second fic-

tional work, a collection of short sto-

ries. Doswell retired after a varied

career as a journalist, lobbyist, and

director of external affairs for the

Central Intelligence Agency.

"48 (REUNION)

The Rev. Lewis V. Boyle
served as interim pastor for six
months at Mount Joy Presbyterian
Church in Raphine, Va.

Rutledge H. Deas Jr.

of Lafayette, La., was elected chair-
man of the Louisiana Independent
Oil & Gas Association and is a mem-
ber of the executive committee of
the Natural Gas Supply Association.

Andrew H. McCutcheon

of Richmond has retired after 43
years and stays busy with his grand-
daughters and as chairman of the
Virginia State Library Board.

Dr. Robert G. Patterson

of Memphis, Tenn., recently
trekked the Himalayas in Nepal,
visiting Buddhist and Hindu pil-
grimage sites, monasteries, and tem-
ples. After surviving an earthquake,
he visited Thailand shortly after the
massacres of pro-democracy demon-
strators.

48L

David B. Cofer Jr.

practices law with his daughter,
Anne Marie, in the Bryan, Texas,
law firm of Cofer & Cofer.

H. Maurice Mitchell

has had a courtroom at the
University of Arkansas at Little
Rock dedicated in his name.
Mitchell is a partner in the Little
Rock law firm of Mitchell, Williams,
Selig, Gates & Woodyard.

Grant E. Mouser Ill
See °44.

’
49

Dr. D. Earl Brown Jr.

was elected vice president of Abt

Associates, Inc., a social sciences

policy research firm in Reston, Va.

Brown will manage the company’s

health-policy planning and develop-

ment research division.

Kenneth K. Lindell

of Canton, N.Y., writes that he’s
looking forward to retirement as
soon as his last child graduates from
college. He enjoys the north country
and frequently sees classmate John
Charles Dillon.

Joseph B. Martin

is retired and living in Williamsburg,
Va., where he does volunteer work
in hospital emergency rooms and
serves as docent at the Mariner’s
Museum in Newport News.

Charles R. Treadgold

sold his insurance agency to his son,
Charles R. Treadgold II 81, and his
brother, Anthony. Treadgold moved
to Skidaway Island in Savannah,
Ga., where he sails, fishes, and plays
tennis, golf, and bridge. He reports
that “so much fun is hard to take,”
and that he often misses his holidays
and weekends.

’
50
Gerald A. Burchell Jr.
raises about 50 different types of

apples in his mini-orchard in
Rochester, N.H.

R. Dabney Chapman

has retired from the Foreign Service
and has moved to Shepherdstown,
W.Va., where he teaches Russian at
a local college.

James T. Hedrick
is a practicing attorney in Durham,

Dr. Donald D. Hook

was recently blessed with a new
granddaughter, Aimee. He and wife
Harriet live in Farmington, Conn.

Joseph H. McGee

is a partner in the Charleston, S.C.,
law firm of Buist, Moore, Smythe &
McGee.

Dr. J. Peter G. Muhlenberg
is senior partner in a five-person
pediatric practice in Wyomissing,
Pa.; he is also chief of the
Department of Pediatrics at
Reading Hospital and Medical
Center.

Andrew L. Peabody

of Natchez, Miss., has received a
patent on the MAX boat and ship
anchor and reports that sales are
doing very well.

Lacey E. Putney

is now the senior member of both
houses of the Virginia General
Assembly, having completed 31
years in the House of Delegates.

Dr. Howard L. Steele

works in external affairs with the
Administrator’s Office, International
Cooperation and Development
Agency in the U.S. Department of
Agriculture in Washington, D.C.

Lawrence V. Wheater

is retired and living in Deland, Fla.;
he spends his summers in Pascoag,
R.I.

Lewis C. Williamson
of Greenwood, Miss., has retired
from the Staple Cotton Corp.

SOL

William J. Ledbetter

has retired as senior executive vice
president of Textron Inc. He now
grows lemons and oranges on a
ranch in Santa Paula, Calif.

Neal E. McNeill Jr.
has retired after 12 years as the city
attorney for Tulsa, Okla.

’
51

William L. Davidson

works for the Lockheed Corp. in

Atlanta. He and his family recently

took a five-week vacation in New

Zealand and Australia.

Rev. James C. Fenhagen Il

has moved to Georgetown, S.C.,
where he works for the Episcopal
Church Foundation, developing a
national program of clergy education
and support.

David C.G. Kerr
See Nathan B. Simpson ’61.

William H. Kyle Jr.

is director of development and
teaches in the college of business at
Montana State University. He still
maintains his companies in Asia and
Europe.

Robert H. Salisbury Jr.

has recently authored two books.
Interests and Institutions: Substance
and Structure in American Politics was
published by the University of
Pittsburgh Press in 1992. The Hollow
Core: Private Interests in National
Policy Making will be published by
Harvard University Press in April.

William G. White

is retired and living in Norman,
Okla., where he is active in volun-
teer work.

SIL

Marvin C. Bowling Jr.

has retired as president and chief
operating officer of Lawyers Title
Insurance Co. in Richmond.

’
52

Ernest H. Clarke

of New Bern, N.C., is retired and

enjoys sailing around the world. He

and his wife, Betty, recently visited

Bora Bora and are planning a sailing

trip to the Caribbean.

David W. Hedge

is retired and living in Jeffersonville,
Ind. He has three children and six
grandchildren.

Thomas S. Miller
of St. Petersburg, Fla., recently
retired from NationsBank Trust.

S2L

Joseph H. McGee
See ’50.

53 (REUNION)

Gray Castle

has joined the law firm of
McDermott, Will & Emery as a
partner in their Washington, D.C.,
litigation department. He was for-
merly deputy undersecretary of the
U.S. Department of Commerce and
chief operating officer of the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration.

Crowell T. Dawkins Jr.
of ‘Tampa is retired and “loving
every minute of it.”

Herbert S. Falk Jr.

has been elected chairman of the
executive committee of the N.C.
Conference of Bar Presidents, which
facilitates understanding and com-
munication among all bar organiza-
tions around the state.

C. Craighead Fritsche

is a manager of proposal services in
the Contract Services Directorate of
E-Systems Inc. His responsibilities
include the negotiation and manage-
ment of the Melpar division’s inter-
national contracts.

James M. Gabler

is putting the finishing touches on
his new book, Passions: The Wines
and Travels of Thomas Jefferson,
which is scheduled for publication
this year, the 250th anniversary of
Jefferson’s birth.

Simon H. Galperin Jr.

is the executive director of the West
Virginia Real Estate Appraisers
Licensing and Certification Board in
Charleston.

Robert W. Latimer

is a senior partner in a California
CPA firm. He reports that his
recently born granddaughter is the
first female on his side of the family
in more than five generations.

Thomas L. Maker

is vice president of sales with
Fairfield Processing Corp. in
Danbury, Conn. He reports that he
has nine grandchildren, is still a
frustrated Red Sox fan, and plays
tennis once a week.

Prof. Ruel W. Tyson Jr.

was elected to the board of directors
of the Arts and Sciences Foundation
at the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill. He also delivered
the midyear commencement
address at UNC.

John A. Williamson Il

is leaving California Plan, the mort-
gage brokerage firm that he started
in 1964. Williamson will continue as
chairman and CEO of Cal Delta
Development Co., a subsidiary of
California Plan. He and wife Violet
live in Saratoga, Fla.

’
54

Robert E. Bradford

was elected chairman of the

National Easter Seal Society’s board

of directors. Bradford is a senior vice

president of Safeway Inc. and lives
in Danville, Calif.

W. Allen Harrison

has retired as assistant treasurer of
Exxon Corp. and has moved to a
new home in Jupiter, Fla.

Paul Maslansky

is planning a seventh installment in
his series of Police Academy movies—
to be filmed in Russia, where he
produced The Russia House several
years back. Unlike its predecessors,
the movie will be released direct to
video in the United States but will
play in theaters around the world,
where the klutzy cops continue to
arrest big audiences, Maslansky told
the trade newspaper Variety. The
series has grossed nearly $500 mil-
lion worldwide.

Dr. Robert O. Paxton

was recently awarded the rank of
officer in the Ordre du Merite by the
French government. He is working
on a documentary film on the Vichy
government with French new-wave
director Claude Chabroe.

The Hon. Robert P. Smith Jr.
has been designated an adjunct pro-
fessor teaching administrative law at
the University of Florida College of
Law.

Henry A. Turner’s

most recent book, Germany from
Partition to Reunification, was pub-
lished by Yale University Press.
‘Turner lives in New Haven, Conn.

’
55

David M. Berlinghof

was elected to the board of directors

of Cargill Investor Services Inc. in
Chicago.

William H. Forrest Jr.

is CEO of the Pompei Title Co. Inc.
and Pompei Industrial Coatings
Inc. in Newport News, Va. He also
serves on the board of advisors of
NationsBank Peninsula and was
recently appointed by Virginia Gov.
Douglas Wilder to serve on the con-
tractors board in Richmond.

David A. Wouters

was recently elected president of
the Reserve Officers Association of
the U.S. Far East Department.

Wouter’s area of responsibility
includes officer reserve activities
from Australia to Japan, including
Korea.

SOL

Gray Castle
See °53.

James M. Gabler
See ’53.

Walter J. McGraw

has retired from the law firm of
Williams, Mullen, Christian &
Dobbins. He will split his time
between Richmond and a house on
the Carrotoman River in Lancaster
County, Va.

John A. Williamson II
See °53.

"57
Robert A. Cairns
works in real-estate investment in

Orlando, where he exercises every-
day and enjoys 50 mile bike rides.

E. Gerald Hopkins

has authored his 26th book, The
Lizard King: The Essential Jim
Morrison, which was recently pub-
lished by Scribner’s. Hopkins lives
in Honolulu.

The Hon. Henry C. Morgan Jr.
is a U.S. District Court judge in
Norfolk, Va.

Lacey E. Putney
See ’50.

"58 (REUNION)

Kenneth W. Chandler

is celebrating the 25th anniversary
of his publication, 7he Chandler
Residential Report. The statistical
report tracks housing sales data in
Shelby County, Tenn., which
includes Memphis.

William M. France

has retired as chief executive of
WHOK Inc. in Lancaster, Ohio. He
plans to spend more time working
with Masterfare, an angus cattle
operation.

Edward M. George Jr.

has been named to the Bethany
College Board of Trustees in
Bethany, W.Va. George is president
and CEO of WesBanco Inc. in
Wheeling, W.Va.

Fred L. Heina

is president of Statewide Securities
Group Inc., a full service NASDAQ
broker with offices in Tampa and
Sarasota, Fla.

Joseph L. Lyle Jr.
has joined the law firm of Kaufman
& Canoles as resident partner in its
Virginia Beach office.

C. Parkhill Mays Jr.

ig a senior partner at Holland &
Knight, the largest law firm in
Florida, and reports that his last two
children are attending Furman

University.

Rufus a Safford
is a sales representative for the

Crown Corp., which sells English
embossed wallcoverings, victorian
wallpapers, and bedspreads and
draperies to the hotel industry.
Safford lives in Denver, where he
enjoys hiking, camping, and snow-
shoeing.

Samuel B. Tannahill

lives with his wife, Claude, in La
Gaude, France, a small village in the
Cote D’ Azur.

581
Ernest H. Clarke
See °52.

"59

John H. Esperian

recently published an article on
Coach Jerry Tarkanian. He also had
a paper accepted at the Popular
Culture Association. Esperian teach-
es English at the Community
College of Southern Nevada in Las
Vegas.

Charles D. Hurt Jr.
has joined the Atlanta law firm of
Sutherland, Asbill & Brennan.

Evan J. Kemp Jr.,

former chairman of the Equal
Employment Opportunity
Commission under the Bush
Administration, has joined with for-
mer White House Counsel C.
Boyden Gray and Dorrance Smith,
former presidential assistant for
media affairs, to form an “activist
conservative opposition-in-exile”—
part think-tank, part public interest
law firm, and part cable TV news
channel.

Daniel W. King

is retired and living in Cleveland,
where he hosts foreign exchange
students for the University School, a
Private prep school near Cleveland.
So far, King has hosted 12 Germans,
one Czech, and one Swede.

John G. Koedel Jr.

has come out of retirement to
become president of the National
Forge Co. Koedel recently moved to
Deltaville, Va., and spent his sum-
Mer On a sail across the Atlantic

from Grand Canaria Island to
Antigua.

Dr. John C. Kots

Was honored by the Chemical
Manufacturers Association with a
ational Catalyst Award for his work
in chemical education. Kotz is a dis-
inguished teaching professor at the

State University of New York in
Oneonta, N.Y.

J. William McCallum Jr.

was recently named vice president
of sales for Modern Aluminum
Anodizing. He lives in Roselle, N.J.

Robert E. Shepherd Jr.

was appointed to a three-year term
on the board of fellows of the
National Juvenile Justice Center in
Pittsburgh.

Murray M. Wadsworth

lives with his wife, Susan, in
Tallahassee, Fla.; they have two
children, Murray and Alice.

Charles E. Wellman

is vice president of the community
banking division of Pittsburgh
National Bank. He and his wife,
Barbara, have one son, Wallace.

’
60

Oliver T. Cook

is a practicing attorney in Peabody,

Mass. He enjoys playing golf and

handball and plays both at a national

level.

Dr. John C. Hisley

is a professor in the OB/GYN
Department at Texas Tech
University’s medical school.

‘60L

George E. Anthou
lives in Canonsburg, Pa. Son
Gregory is a freshman at W&L.

Joseph L. Lyle Jr.
See ’58.

The Hon. Henry C. Morgan Jr.
See °57.

’
61

H. Lee Israel

of Laurel, Md., has worked for the

Department of Defense for more
than 25 years.

Richard L. Kuersteiner

works as corporate counsel for the
Franklin Group of Funds in San
Mateo, Calif. He reports that
Franklin’s acquisition of the
Templeton Group of Funds brings
its assets under management to $90
billion, which keeps him busier than
ever.

Robert K. Park Il
is the acting president of the Market
Street Mortgage Corp. in Tampa.

William C. Remington

of Houston is a director of interna-
tional insurance broker Johnson &
Higgins and has systemwide over-
sight responsibility for sales and
business development in the oil,
gas, and petrochemical industries.

Nathan P.B. Simpson,

a partner in the Tampa law firm of
Macfarlane Ferguson, has been
elected chairman of the firm’s man-
aging partners. Simpson will serve a
three-year term and replaces fellow
partner David C.G. Kerr ’51.

61L

Robert E. Shepherd Jr.
See °59.

’
62

Ronald H. Alenstein

has joined the law firm of D’Amato

& Lynch in New York as a litigation

partner.

Harry G. Ballance Jr.

is a captain with Delta Air Lines. He
is currently based in Atlanta, where
he flies Lockheed T-1011s to
Europe.

LTC Wayne A. Bradshaw

is employed by the U.S. Army
Central Personnel Security
Clearance Facility at Fort George.
He lives with his wife, Jo Ann, and
two children, Kim and Wayne, in
Ellicott City, Md.

The Hon. Charles R. Butler
is a U.S. District Judge for the
Southern District of Alabama in
Mobile.

Alan M. Corwin

is president of the North Thurston
Schools Educational Foundation in
Olympia, Wash.

Dr. Robert A. Council Jr.

is an OB/GYN in Benton, Ark. He
and wife Taffy, have four children—
Kristin, 21, John, 18, Sarah, 16, and
Justin, 14. Council reports that he
plays a great deal of golf and vaca-
tions in Mexico yearly.

Simon M. Painter Jr.
practices law in Staunton, Va.,
where he lives with his wife, Vicki.

James A. Russ

is president of Evered-Bardon USA.
Russ and his wife, Rita, recently
moved from Boston to the eastern
shore of Maryland.

The Hon. Philip D. Sharp Jr.
is a Superior Court judge in
California.

Walfred B. Thulin Jr.

recently celebrated his 25th year as
an employee of the loss prevention
department of Liberty Mutual
Insurance Co. in Richmond. In his
spare time, Thulin enjoys promot-
ing and booking bluegrass bands in
the Richmond area.

63 (REUNION)

Charles B. Begg Jr.
works for the Woodbridge Capital

Management Division of Comerica
Bank in Detroit.

Robert G. Holland,

editor of the Richmond Times-
Dispatch’s op/ed page, has won the
1992 Mencken Award for Best
Editorial or Op-Ed Column.
Holland won for an Oct. 2, 1991,
column titled “Freedom of
Disinformation: The Feds Protect
Race Norming.”

Warren B. Hughes Jr.

of Media, Pa., owns and operates
Rep Finders USA, which locates
and helps attract independent man-
ufacturers’ sales representative firms
in the U.S. and abroad.

Louis A. Rosenstock Ill
practices law as a sole practitioner in
Colonial Heights, Va.

Andrew A. Smith Jr.

is a vice president in the trust
department of the Wilmington
Trust Co. Daughter Sarah is a junior
at W&L.

William E. Smith Jr.

received the 1992 Communicator of
the Year award from the
Birmingham chapter of the Public
Relations Council of Alabama for his
work with A+, the Coalition for
Better Education.

Stephen H. Stull

works for Fiserv Inc. in San
Clemente, Calif., where he does
consulting for financial institutions
focusing on southeast Asia,
Indonesia, Thailand, and Taiwan.

V. Lance Tarrance Jr.

is the director of the board for the
Gallup Organization. He also serves
as a consultant to Gallup for inter-
national opinion studies.

’
64

John P. Roy

is with Reager Harris Inc., a

Louisville, Ky., insurance firm.

Daughter Eleanor is a sophomore at
W&L.

O4L

Charles B. Rowe

practices law in Courtland, Va.
Daughter Ashley is a first-year law
student at W&L.

Philip D. Sharp Jr.
See ’62.

’
65

Dr. Brooks G. Brown III

practices ophthalmology in Chevy

Chase, Md. Daughter Elise is a
sophomore at W&L.

41

Morris E. “Rhett” Flater

is executive director of the
American Helicopter Society
International of Alexandria, Va.
Formerly of counsel to Hunton &
Williams, Flater assumed his current
position in 1991 and has traveled to
Berlin, London, Avignon, Warsaw,
Moscow, and Singapore, as well as
throughout the United States.

John E. Jennings

has resumed his law practice in
Morristown, Pa. Daughter Lisa will
graduate from W&L this spring.

Ward R. Jones

is an attorney in Houston, where he
lives with wife Shelby and their two
children.

Robert E. Lee

is an associate professor at Michigan
State University. He serves as presi-
dent of the Association of Marital
and Family Therapy and chairman
of the Michigan State Board of
Marriage and Family Therapy.

Alan L. Mark

is president of the Middle
Tennessee chapter of the Federal
Bar Association and chair of the
antitrust and business regulation
section of the Tennessee Bar
Association. A partner with King &
Ballow, Mark also teaches antitrust
law at Vanderbilt University.

Michael J. Michaeles

ran into classmate William Louis
Price III as both were headed to
Jackson Hole, Wyo., for a skiing trip.

Timothy A. Vanderver Jr.

is a partner in Patton, Boggs & Blow
in Washington, D.C., where he
heads the firm’s environmental law
group. He also served as editor-in-
chief of Clean Air Law and Regula-
tion, which was recently published
by the Bureau of National Affairs.

65L

The Hon. Daniel W. Bird Jr.,
of the 27th Judicial District Court in
Wytheville, Va, attended an
advanced jurisdiction program at the
National Judicial College.

’
66

Edward H. Bradbury

coaches his 15-year-old daughter’s

soccer team, which reached the

finals of the A450 Division National

‘Tournament in Torrance, Calif.

Dr. David E. Fleischer,
professor of medicine, spent 1992
lecturing in Switzerland, France,
Germany, Greece, Canada, Hong
Kong, China, Argentina, and
Nuangola.

Samuel H. Frasier
a partner with Spain & Gillon law
firm, is a member of the 1992-93

42

class of Leadership Birmingham.
Son Sam Jr. is a freshman at W&L.

Charles N. Griffin I1

lives in Mexico City, where he is
president and managing director of
Kodak’s Mexico operations.

Thornton M. Henry

is returning to Brazil with his older
son to build a chapel for an Indian
tribe. He is also publishing a book
on the churches in Bermuda.

John H. Rutherford

is currently the White House pro-
ducer for NBC-TYV. His work has
taken him to more than 40 countries
in the past six years. He and wife
Sally have three children—Laurie,
21, Lesley, 16, and Rob, 6.

Buckner Woodford Jr.
of Paris, Ky., is chairman of the
Kentucky Bankers Association.

66L

George W. Wooten

was inducted as a fellow into the
American College of Trial Lawyers.
He lives in Roanoke, Va.

’
67

Ward W. Briggs Jr.

is currently the Hill Distinguished

Visiting Professor of Classics at
Hobart College in Geneva, N.Y.

Dr. Thomas C. Davis III

was elected moderator of the
Tropical Florida Presbytery, vice
president of the board of the Little
Haiti Housing Association, and was
recently promoted to full professor
of theological ethics at the South
Florida Center for Theological
Studies.

Lewis B. Puller Jr.

won the 1992 Pulitzer Prize for his
autobiography, Fortunate Son. Puller,
a Defense department lawyer, is the
son of Lt. Gen. Lewis B. Puller, the
Marine Corps’ most decorated offi-
cer.

08 (REUNION)

Dr. Paul C. Atwater

is in private practice in otolaryngolo-
gy in Atlanta. He and his wife, Ann,
have two sons, Carleton, 8, and
Patrick, 6.

Jeffrey T. Briggs

has joined Standard Chartered Bank
in New York as customer services
manager in U.S. dollar clearing.

William F. Chew IIl1

lives with his wife, Vicki, and their
two children, William F. IV, 2, and
Mary Larkin, 1, in Phoenix, Md.

Richard K. Christovich

of New Orleans was recently induct-
ed in London as a fellow in the
American College of Trial Lawyers.

David R. Dougherty

has been appointed headmaster of
the Hill School, a preparatory school
for boys located in Pottstown, Pa.

Dr. Frank R. Greer

of Madison, Wis., is a professor of
pediatrics and nutrition at the
University of Wisconsin.

Edward 1. Hutchins Jr.

has been relocated by the Marriott
Corp. to the Boston Marriott Copley
Place Hotel.

Robert H. Moll

was promoted to assistant solicitor
for the branch of administrative law
and general legal services division of
General Law at the Office of the
Solicitor in the U.S. Department of
the Interior in Washington, D.C.

68L

Michael J. Michaeles
See °65.

Paul M. Neville

of Jackson, Miss., reports that he is
starting the “case of a lifetime.” He
is representing English holders of
$14.1 million worth of Mississippi
bonds that were issued in the 1830s
and defaulted on in 1842.

’
69

Jeremy E. Brown

is chief executive officer of Earle

Palmer Brown, the nation’s 21st-

largest advertising and public rela-

tions firm. He lives with his wife,

Sally, and their four children,

Jeremy, 9, Amy, 8, Sarah, 4, and

‘Tucker, 1, in Potomac, Md.

Hugh A. Carithers Jr.

was appointed by Florida Gov.
Lawton Chiles to the Fourth
Judicial Circuit in northeast Florida
and has been assigned to
Jacksonville.

William J. Cook

works in research grant administra-
tion for the Pennsylvania
Department of Commerce’s Ben
Franklin Partnership Program. Cook
also teaches evening chemistry
classes at Harrisburg Area
Community College.

Harold F. Gallivan Ill

of Greenville, S.C., has been made a
limited partner at J.C. Bradford &
Co., the largest investment banking
firm in the South.

David W. Hardee IIl1

has started a private investment
partnership, Hardee Capital
Partners L.P., in Pacific Palisades,
Calif.

Dr. Michael J. Hawkins

is an associate professor of medicine
in the division of medical oncology
at the Georgetown University
School of Medicine.

Dr. Leon D. Katz

has operated a private practice in
general dentistry in Baltimore for
the past 15 years. He recently deliy-
ered a lecture on photographic com-
position.

Dr. James A. Livesay

is a cardiovascular surgeon at the
‘Texas Heart Institute in Houston,
which has been recognized as one of
the nation’s top 10 hospitals. More
than 80,000 patients have had open
heart surgery at THI.

The Hon. A.D. “Joe” Wilson
was elected to a third term in the
S.C, Senate. He is an attorney with
Kirkland, Wilson, Moore, Allen,
Deneen & Taylor in west
Columbia.

O9L

Charles F. Bagley I1l

of Huntington, W.Va., is president
of the West Virginia State Bar
Association.

Thornton M. Henry
See ’66.

’
70

James F. Bycott

is a senior associate in environmen-

tal law, OSHA, and toxic tort mat-

ters with Hunter, Smith & Davis.

He lives with his wife, Laura, and

stepdaughter, Martha, in Kingsport,

Tenn.

W. Foster Gaillard

is a partner with the Charleston,
S.C., firm of Buist, Moore, Smythe
& McGee.

Kenneth S. George
is chairman and chief executive of
Epic Healthcare Group in Dallas.

The Rev. Harry H. Hill Ill
has been ordained an Episcopal
priest and now serves as assistant
rector of St. Francis in the Fields
Episcopal Church in Harrods Creek,
Ky.

E. Owen Perry Ill

of Augusta, Ga., reports that his
daughter will be attending W&L as
a freshman this fall.

James M. Smith

is a senior vice president and senior
portfolio manager of Selected
Special Shares in Chicago.

Philip J. Tissue,

a partner with Hamilton, Burgess,
Young, Tissue & Pollard, has been
twice elected to the Fayette County
(W.Va.) school board and now serves
as its president. Son John will be a
freshman at W&L this fall.

Kenneth C. Wallace Jr.

has joined the First Boston Corp. in
New York as a director of equity
capital markets. He and wife Anne

—

n Philadelphia with their two

ive i
a Kenneth, 14, and Peyton, 11.

sons,

ad

Ralph E. Deitrich

of Louisville, Ky., owns and oper-
ates Deitrich’s Restaurant in the
restored Crescent Theatre. He and
his wife, Joanne, have two children,
Nicolas, !!, and Marisa, 7.

Henry A. Ha rkey

is chairman of the board of Park
Meridian Bank in Charlotte, N.C.
He also serves as chairman of the
board of Alexander Children’s

Center Inc.

Robert R. Jensen

is a set designer and director at
Fullerton College in California. He
recently stepped down as depart-
ment chairman and managing direc-
tor to concentrate on relocating his
family to the East Coast.

Dr. Joseph B. Philips Ill

is currently on sabbatical in
Charlottesville, Va., where he is
learning new methods in cellular
and molecular biology. He will
return to Birmingham this summer.

Stephen D. Rosenthal

was elected attorney general by the
Virginia General Assembly follow-
ing the resignation of Mary Sue
Terry. He will serve the remaining
year of Terry’s term with no plans to
run for re-election. He and his wife,
Cynthia, and daughter, Courtney,
11, live in Chesterfield, Va.

Russell P. Wynings Jr.

of Coral Gables, Fla., is president of
anew company: McKenzie
Hospitality Advisors Inc., which
develops economy lodging proper-
ties for environmentally sensitive
areas.

12

Dr. J. Hudson Allender

is president of the medical staff at
the Cook-Fort Worth Children’s
Hospital in Texas.

Richard R. Orsinger

of San Antonio, Texas, has authored
a recently published 950-page trea-
tise on state civil appellate practice
for use by Texas lawyers and
judges.

John W. Robinson IV

has been selected by the American
Bar Association to serve as editor of
Employment and Labor Relations Law
Litigation. Robinson is a partner with
Fowler, White, Gillen, Boggs,
Villareal & Banker in Tampa.

;
13 (REUNION)

r. Haller Jackson Il
: 4 partner in the Shreveport, La.,
aw firm of Tucker, Jeter, Jackson &

Hickman and serves as chair of the
Disciplinary Board of the Louisiana
State Bar Association. He and his
wife, Susan, have three children.

Jay H. Kern

is president of the USF&G Sugar
Bowl and is a partner in the New
Orleans law firm of Simon,
Peragine, Smith & Redfearn.

Dr. Howard F. Snyder

has operated a radiology practice in
Rock Hill, S.C., for the past 10
years. He has four children,
Jennings, 8, Welles, 7 , Boyce
Pressley, 3, and Florence Adele, 1.

Dr. J. Griffith Steel

is an associate professor at the East
Carolina University School of
Medicine in Greenville, N.C.

Paul C. Suthern

is president and chief executive of
Medco Containment Services, a $2.1
billion-company serving the pre-
scription drug market. He and wife
Marilyn live in Basking Ridge, N.J.

Adie

Michael Campilongo

was appointed by Virginia Gov.
Douglas Wilder to a House and
Senate study committee on pollu-
tion prevention. He lives in
Alexandria.

Morris E. “Rhett” Flater
See ’65.

J. Jeffries Miles

has joined the Washington, D.C.,
office of Ober, Kaler, Grimes &
Shriver, where he will focus on
antitrust law, particularly in the
healthcare sector. Miles is the
author of a three-volume legal trea-
tise titled Healthcare @ Antitrust Law,
published by Clark Boardman
Callaghan.

John P. Miller
is an attorney with the Baltimore
firm of Wright, Constable & Skeen.

’
/4
The Rev. Jack E. Altman Ill
is pursuing his master’s degree in
chemical dependency rehabilitation
at East Carolina University. He lives
with his wife, Peggy, and two sons,
Heyward, 11, and Charlie, 8, in
Morehead City, N.C.

Chet Burgess

received his second Ace award,
cable television’s equivalent of the
Emmy, at the 14th annual national
CableAce awards in January for his
work as executive producer of
“Network Earth,” for Superstation
TBS. The show was cited for its
coverage of last year’s Earth Summit
in Rio de Janeiro.

C. Russell Fletcher Ill
recently teamed with pro golfer Bob

One for the Money

Broaddus Brings Change to Richmond Fed

Washington and Lee has a rich tradition with the Federal Reserve
System. In the early 1900s, one of the primary advisors during the
planning stages of the Fed was a hot young economist named H.
Parker Willis, the founding dean of the W&L school of commerce. He
later became the first secretary of the Federal Reserve Board and its
first director of research.

That legacy continues today with the appointment of J. Alfred
Broaddus Jr. 61 as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond on Jan. 1. The Richmond bank is headquarters for the
Fifth Federal Reserve District (which includes five states and the
District of Columbia) and is one of 12 regional branches of the
Federal Reserve, which controls monetary policy in the United States.
Actions by the Fed affect the growth rate of the nation’s money sup-
ply, interest rates, and other financial and economic variables.

Those in the know say the experience Broaddus brings to his new
position is, well, right on the money. “Al is an excellent economist
and a strong proponent of price stability,” says Anne Marie
Whittemore, chairman of the board of directors of the Richmond Fed.
“He brings to the chief executive position significant management
experience both with the Federal Reserve system and through his
leadership roles in major community organizations.”

A political science major at W&L, Broaddus was a member of the
cross country team and Sigma Nu fraternity, and was inducted into
Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. He later studied in France
under a Fulbright Fellowship and received master’s and doctoral
degrees in economics from Indiana University. Broaddus joined the
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond as an economist in 1970, and was
senior vice president and director of research prior to his appointment.

“As a student, Al demonstrated the capacity for rigorous logical
reasoning,” says economics professor John M. Gunn, who taught
Broaddus and has maintained close contact with him since. “He has
assembled in Richmond what is currently regarded as one of the best
economic research departments in the Federal Reserve System.”

Broaddus has been a frequent visitor on campus—as a lecturer, as a
parent (son John A. III
graduated last May), and
as an alumnus. “Wash-
ington and Lee—and
especially my Principles
of Economics courses
from Professor Gunn—
played a major role in
preparing me for this
position,” he says. “I
look forward now to
using both the technical
skills and the broader
lessons I learned in
Lexington to serve both
the Fed and the public
as effectively as I possi-
bly can.”

—By Evan Atkins

 

Photo: Richmond Times-Dispatch

Gilder and two others to take third
place in the Concord General Pro-
Am Classic at Pebble Beach, Calif.
The team’s third-place finish earned
Gilder $24,000. Fletcher is a senior
vice president with the Liberty
National Fire Insurance Co. in
Birmingham, Ala.

E.J. “Skip” Lichtfuss Jr.

is the Maryland district leasing man-
ager for Eastman Kodak. He also
serves as head coach of the Mt.
Washington Lacrosse Club and gen-
eral manager of the Pittsburgh Bulls,
an indoor lacrosse team. Lichtfuss
lives with wife Suzanne and their
three sons, Jeffrey 12, Kevin, 8, and
Derek, 5, in Towson, Md.

Gary W. McAuliffe

was recently promoted to senior
hospital sales representative for the
Ciba-Geigy Pharmaceutical Co. in
Richmond. He and his wife, Betty,
have four children, Katie, and
triplets, Merrily, Will, and Neal, 4.

G. Watson Tebo Jr.

of Baton Rouge, La., is an account
executive in the diagnostics division
of Abbott Laboratories He and his
wife have two children, Trey, 9, and
Katie, 5.

R. Palmer Trice Il

is a Presbyterian minister in
Charlotte, N.C. He also serves as
director of the Barnabas Center, a
teaching, training, and counseling
ministry. He and his wife have three
children, Ashley, 9, Kathryn, 6, and
Palmer, 3.

J. Kenneth Wood

is the partner in charge of the tax
practice for KPMG Peat Marwick in
Richmond. He and his wife, Alecia,
live in Doswell, Va., with their
daughter Lindsay, where they are
also active in thoroughbred horse
racing.

John M. Zamoiski

has been promoted to executive
vice president of Don Jagoda
Associates. He supervises sales pro-
motion for AT&T, the Discovery
Channel, and Showtime in Tenafly,
N.J.

TAL

The Rev. Harry H. Hill Ill
See °70.

Rex M. Lamé Ill

is a partner in the Atlanta firm of
Smith, Gambrell & Russell.
Daughter Marie is a freshman at
W&L.

Lawrence V. Young

just finished a year as president of
the York County (Pa.) Bar
Association. He and his wife, Tina,
have two sons, Adrian, 16, and
Stevens, 14.

’
75

Robert H. Crawford

now works in the central planning

group of VLSI Technology Inc. in

Tempe, Ariz., in systems analysis

and support.

Duncan B. Degraff

is a regional sales manager at
Random House Inc., directing mar-
keting and sales efforts for Alfred A.
Knopf, Vintage, Pantheon, Villard,
and the distribution of Sierra Club
Books and Shambala Publications
Inc. He and his wife, Eileen, live in
Silver Spring, Md.

Dr. Paul G. Firth

has a solo OB/GYN practice in
Macon, Ga. He has four children,
Monica, 10, Stephanie, 6, Whitney,
2, and Stuart, 1.

Matthew R. Krafft

is a partner with the accounting firm
of Rubino & McGeehin, which spe-
cializes in government contract
accounting. He lives with wife Jean
and son Skip in Bethesda, Md.

Capt. Steven W. Purtell
is a stockbroker with Fidelity
Investments in Cincinnati.

T5L

Franklin P. Slavin Jr.

was appointed substitute judge of
the 27th Judicial District of Virginia.
A resident of Wytheville, Va.,

Slavin recently received his private
pilot’s license.

Robert S. Stubbs 111
has started a new law firm, Banks,
Stubbs & Iverson, in Cumming, Ga.

’
76
The Hon. David §. Cayer

of Charlotte, N.C., is a district court
judge in Mecklenburg County.

Paul B. Cromelin IIl

is a partner in the Washington, D.C.,
law firm of Craighill, Mayfield,
Fenwick & Cromelin, which spe-
cializes in estate planning and
administration. He and his wife,
Margaret, live in Chevy Chase, Md.,
with their two children, Caroline, 9,
and Bo, 6.

John L. Gray Jr.

of Atlanta is vice president of mar-
keting and corporate communica-
tions for RTM Inc., which operates
370 restaurants in 14 states. He and
wife Emily have two children, Jack,
11, and Elizabeth, 7.

David W. Heckenbach

has left the Denver District
Attorney’s Office to become a part-
ner with Cross, Schlie & Hecken-
bach, where his practice will con-
centrate on litigation.

Stephen C. Larosa

is president of the medical staff of
Capital Health Plan, a 50,000-mem-
ber health maintenance organization
in Tallahassee, Fla.

R. Brooke Lewis

is a trial attorney with the Federal
Aviation Administration in
Washington, D.C. He represented
the agency in the Avianca crash liti-
gation in New York.

TOL

Richard A. Hooker

invites his W&L friends to visit him
in his new home in Kalamazoo,
Mich. He and his wife, Jan, have
two children, Jillion, and Andrew.

Stephen D. Rosenthal
See °71.

’
/7
Dr. Solomon G. Brotman
has received his Mastership of the
Academy of General Dentistry and
is one of less than 50 dentists world-
wide to be board-eligible. He teach-
es at the renowned Parker & Mahan
Facial Pain Center in Gainesville,
Fla., and is president of Jewish
Family and Community Services.

William D. Cantler II

is associate director of an off-
Broadway theatre-Manhattan Class
Company. He also does casting
work for the Fox TV series “Class of
96.” Cantler lives with his wife, Jan,
and son, David, in Brooklyn, N.Y.

Douglass W. Dewing,

branch counsel for the
Fredericksburg, Va., office of
Lawyers Title Insurance Corp. has
written A Virginia Title Examiners’
Manual, which was published by the
Michie Co.

Craig F. Hamilton

manages funding at AT&T
Universal Card. He is still “hanging
10” in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.

Mark E. Hoffman

practices business and tax law in
Birmingham, Ala., where he lives
with his wife, Karla, and infant
daughter, Erin.

Mark A. Krieger II

has moved with his wife, Ruth, and
son Drew, 9, to Jacksonville, Fla.,
where he has accepted the position
of chief operating officer of Hart
Enterprises.

John P, Monahan

is a member of the National Trust’s
property rights project advisory
committee and was recently elected
a member of the Belle Grove board
of trustees. He and his wife, Katie,
live in Alexandria, Va.

Thomas H. Murphy

works for Murco Drilling Corp. in

Shreveport, La. He has three chil-
dren, Caroline, John, and Thomas,

W. Charles Rogers IIl

is president of Security Title
Guarantee Corp. of Baltimore, a
national title insurance underwriter.

William H. Sands

is president of Rheinauers, a five-
store chain of women’s specialty
stores. He and his wife, Julie, live in
Winter Haven, Fla.

Maj. Angelo B. Santella
is a test officer at the Airborne
Board at Fort Bragg, N.C.

Dr. James VU. Scott

is currently a fellow in Behavioral-
Developmental Pediatrics at the
Medical College of Virginia.

George R. Smith IIl

of Shawsville, Va., is an executive
administrator for Meadowbrook
Inc., a small chain of long-term
health care and retirement facilities.

Kenneth S. Voelker

is president of Mighty Distributing
System of America Inc., a whole-
saler in the automotive aftermarket
with 152 franchises in 46 states.

Greg S. Walden,

after 12 years of service in the feder-
al government, has left his position
as associate counsel to President
Bush. He is uncertain, at this writ-
ing, about his next career move.

gr =

The Hon. Robert W. Goodlatte
has been elected to Congress from
Virginia’s sixth district.

Richard L. Gottlieb

has joined the Charleston, W.Va.,
law firm of Leius, Friedberg,
Glasser, Casey & Rollins.

;
78

Mark A. Bradley

has left the CIA and opened a gen-

eral law practice in Arlington, Va.

While with the CIA, Bradley served

as an intelligence officer and

received an exceptional perfor-

mance award for work with South

Asia.

Parke L. Bradley

is a vice president with J.P. Morgan
in London. He is responsible for
marketing securities, trust, and
information services to institutions
in Europe and the Middle East. He
lives in Sussex with his wife,
Caroline, and three children.

Stuart L. Craig Jr.

is vice president of sales and mar-
keting of PropSat-A, a pre-press sef-
vices company, with Gruner & Jahr

in Nashville. He has twin girls,
Sarah and Lesley, 4.

Alan T. Drennen Hr
of Birmingham, Ala., is vice presi-
dent of SouthTrust Corp. He and
his wife Charlotte, have three chil-
dren, Alan IV, 9, Will, 6, and St.

Clair, 3.

Richard J. Fadus 7
lives in Hampden, Mass., with his
wife, Doreen, and two sons, Richard

and Matthew.

Craig B. Forry
has formed a law firm, Corcovelos &

Forry, in Manhattan Beach, Calif.

Barry D. Godin

recently transferred to Orlando, Fila.,
from New York, where he is a pro-
duction designer, set decorator, and
actor in film.

Samuel H. Harrison

was recently reelected to the
Gwinnett County, Ga., Board of
Registrations and Elections.

Elliot G. Hicks

is a partner in the Charleston,
W.Va., law firm of Kay, Casto,
Chaney, Love & Wise.

Peter C. Keefe

is a vice president and portfolio
manager at the Avenir Corp. in
Washington, D.C.

James K. Ladky

of Milwaukee works for F.W. Ladky
Associates, which specializes in
metal sales. He and his wife, Julie,
have three children, Caroline, 11,
Ted, 10, and Ben, 8.

John D. Long

of Baltimore works for Citizens
Bank of Maryland and enjoys sailing
and golf whenever possible.

Jonathan R. Morris

is a senior vice president with
Shearson Lehman Bros. Inc. in New
York. He lives with his wife,
Margaret and daughter Catherine, 3,
in Port Washington, N.Y.

O. Warren Mowry Jr.

is president of the board of directors
of the Warehouse Theatre in
Greenville, S.C., the state’s only res-
ident professional theater. Last
August, Mowry took part in the

Blue Ridge Brutal 100, a one-day
100-mile bicycle race in Ashe
County, N.C., listed in Bicycle USA
as the toughest ‘century’ in the

Country; he finished 37th out of 80
racers,

Dr. Liston A.Orr
recently completed a radiology resi-
dency at the University of South
Alabama and is currently ina
Nuclear Medicine Fellowship at
Emory University. He will join
Hendersonville (N.C.) Radiological
Nsultants in July 1993.

Peter A. Quinn
is director of admissions at the
Peddie School in Hightstown, N.]J.

Lloyd R. Sams

recently moved from Chicago to
Charlotte, where he has joined First
Union’s specialized industries
department as a manager in the
communications group. He has two
sons, Henry, 6, and James, 2.

Robert L. Sult Jr.

recently ran the New York
Marathon in 3:13 and finished in the
top 10 percent of the 27,000 runners
in the race. Sult lives in San
Antonio, Texas.

Dr. John F. Tompkins Il

is chief of the orthopedic section at
the VA Medical Center in
Oklahoma City. He also shares an
orthopedic practice with his father.

Charles H. Walsh Il1l

is an assistant attorney general for
the state of Connecticut. He and his
wife, Karen, have a daughter,
Christen, 2.

7TSL

Thomas M. Trexise

is an assistant vice president in the
claim legal division of USF&G
Insurance in Baltimore.

’
79

Stephen M. Calabro

is a senior vice president in the

finance/accounting division of

Shearson Lehman Bros. He lives

with his wife, Colleen, and two chil-

dren, Stephen, 3, and Maggie, 2, in

Garden City, N.Y.

J.J. Landers Carnal

is senior vice president and chief
fixed income officer of Boatman’s
‘Trust Co. in St. Louis.

J. Peter Clements

was promoted to president and chief
administrative officer of the Bank of
Southside, Va.

Dr. Charles E. D’Auria
is a family physician in Heritage, Pa.

Paul P. Daugherty

is a sports columnist with the
Cincinnati Post and has a daily radio
commentary on all-sports WSAI-AM
and a weekly appearance on a local
CBS affiliate. He also writes a
monthly column for Cincinnati maga-
zine. Daugherty lives with his wife,
Kerry, and two children, Kelly, 6,
and Jillian, 3, in Loveland, Ohio.

James O. Davis

of ‘Tampa won reelection to the 56th
District of the Florida State House.
A third-term congressman, Davis
chairs the subcommittees on public
utilities regulated services, and
technology; on finance and pro-
grams; and the public schools com-

mittee. Davis has worked for the
Tampa law firm of Bush, Ross,
Gardner, Warren & Rudy for the
past four years. He and his wife,
Peggy, have two sons, Peter and
William.

John H.M. Leithead

of Carmel, N.Y., is a senior sales
representative for the catalog group
of R.R. Donnelly & Sons. He also
sits on the board of directors for the
Boston Celtics.

Gregory A. Lilly

is an assistant professor of econom-
ics at Elon College in North
Carolina.

John H. Norberg

is president of Standard Investment
Chartered Inc., a Fountain Valley,
Calif., securities firm specializing in
closely-held, thinly traded public
securities.

Dirk R. Pieper

is the director of marketing for the
automotive division of Milliken and
Cos. in Greenville, S.C. He and his
wife, Katherine, recently completed
their MBAs at Clemson University.

Dr. George L.H. Ward
practices emergency medicine in
Gulf Port, Miss. He recently com-
pleted a residency in emergency
medicine and a fellowship in critical
care.

AGE

John F. Allevato

is an attorney with the Columbus,
Ohio, law firm of Emens, Kegler,
Brown, Hill & Ritter.

Bruce F. MacFarlane

is a partner in the Detroit firm of
Blake, Kirchner, Symonos,
MacFarlane, Larson & Smith. He
specializes in toxic tort and environ-
mental law.

Jessine A. Monaghan

has moved to Belgium and is the
environmental, health, and safety
counsel for General Electric
Plastics, Europe.

’
SO

Stephen H. Abraham

was recently made a shareholder in

the Washington, D.C., law firm of
Greenstein, DeLorne & Luchs.

John R. Cole

is the graphics editor and editorial
cartoonist at The Herald-Sun in
Durham, N.C. He won a second-
place award for overall appearance
and design from the N.C. Press
Association. His work has been
included in a book titled Cartoons
and Ethnicity which was exhibited at
Ohio State University as part of the
1992 Festival of Cartoon Art.

Andrew McCollam Ill
has become a partner in the
Houston offices of Vinson & Elkins.

Edward J. McDonnell Ill
is an assistant vice president with
Barclays Bank in New York.

J. Gregory Morten

lives in Memphis, Tenn., with his
wife and two daughters, Meredith,
4, and Anna, 1.

William W. Paxton

is now assistant director of develop-
ment with special responsibilities
for the law school at W&L.

Dr. Andrew C. Schutrumpf
has joined a multi-specialty medical
practice in Camandaigua, N.Y.

Bruce D. Wilmot

is busy organizing the “Wilmot
Library,” which consists of several
boxes of personal effects and junk
from his past 10 years at the White
House.

SOL

Christopher Wolf

practices law at the Washington,
D.C., office of Proskaver, Rose,
Goetz & Mendelsohn. He also
serves on the boards of the National
Symphony and the Anti-Defamation
League.

‘1

Jeffrey A. Buntrock

works in Baden, Switzerland for
Asea Brown Boveri, an electrical
engineering firm.

R. Christopher Gammon

is a vice president in the corporate
banking group of Wachovia Bank of
North Carolina. He lives in
Charlotte with his wife, Ruth, and
daughters Sydnor and Betsy.

James H. Gordon Ill

owns Executive Travel & Cruise
Shoppe Inc., in Orange City, Fla.
He returned from Europe this sum-
mer after attending his fifth
Olympics and reports that he still
drives his ’°73 gold Mercedes 450
SEL.

Bishop B. Norris

of Memphis, Tenn., is managing
partner of Vawter, Gammon, Norris
& Co.

Michael C. Smith

has returned to New York after liv-
ing in Tokyo for four years. He
works for Merrill Lynch & Co. as a
director in the investment banking

group.

L. Banks Wannamaker III

is enjoying the Lowcountry life with
his wife, Neyle, and daughter, Alice,
at their home in Mt. Pleasant, S.C.

SLL

Mark A. Williams

has been named general counsel to
the Roanoke (Va.) Regional Airport
Commission and the Roanoke
Regional Landfill Authority. He and
his wife, Donna, have two sons,
Adam, 5, and Glenn, 2.

’
52

Joseph A. Benson III

of Dallas was recently promoted to

senior account executive at

Webcraft Technologies Inc., the

country’s largest printer of direct-

response advertising.

James V. Bent Jr.

of Houston is a senior development
geologist with Texaco, and is
involved with reservoir management
and the restoration of oil production
in Kuwait.

John E. Fowler I]

of Andover, Md., is a database
administrator for Mast Industries.
He and wife Violeta have two chil-
dren, Mary Louise, 4, and Eliot, 2.

Ehrick K. Haight Jr.
is a partner with Hughes & Wieters
in Hilton Head, S.C.

Dr. Scott T. Howell

is a first-year resident in anesthesiol-
ogy at the Duke University Medical
Center. He reports that he is an
active sailor and crewed on the win-
ning boat in the Annapolis Bermuda
Ocean Race.

Dr. S. Harbour Stephens I1l
will be entering a private practice in
urology in Mobile, Ala., in June
1993. He currently lives in Winston-
Salem, N.C., with his wife, Greer,
and twin girls, Jane and Nedra, 1.

82L

Edward J. Bedford

has joined the Raleigh, N.C., law
firm of Pinna, Johnston,
O’Donoghue & Burwell. Bedford is
also the editor and publisher of the
Parent’s Newsletter on Special
Education Law.

Cary R. Bond

has left his private law practice and
joined another lawyer to form the
San Diego firm of Flaherty & Bond.
The firm will primarily represent
construction clients.

William C. Nicholson

enjoys a challenging trial practice
with Bayh, Connaughton,
Fensterheim & Malone in
Washington, D.C.

S83 (REUNION)

Mark H. Anderson
is currently the regional sales engi-
neer for Airco Industrial Gases. He

and his new wife, Joanne, live in
Cary, N.C.

James H. Campbell

is a district sales manager for Dime
Savings Bank of New York.
Campbell covers the upstate New
York and Manhattan Residential
Lending Division.

David Lee Cole Jr.

is an attorney with the Baltimore
law firm of Ober, Kaler, Grimes &
Shriver. He and his wife have a one-
year-old son, David Lee III.

Kraig A. Conn

has been the assistant general coun-
sel to the Florida League of Cities
in Tallahassee for the past four
years.

John H. Degnan IIl

is a real estate manager for Frito-
Lay Inc. He is responsible for all of
Frito-Lay’s real estate activity on a
national level. He and his wife,
Kerrin, live in Dallas.

Daniel M. Einstein

is the director of sales at Rosenfeld-
Einstein & Associates and serves as
vice chairman of the CCES school
board. He lives with his wife, Liz,
and son, Andrew in Greenville, S.C.

William M. France Jr.

has been named chief executive of
WHOK Inc. in Lancaster, Ohio.
France succeeds his father, William
M. France ’58.

John D. Guenard

of Leominster, Pa., is a manufactur-
ing representative for several com-
panies in New England. He and his
wife have two daughters, Lesley and
Andrea.

James W. Hartz

of Nashville is director of research
for Burroughs & Associates, an
advertising agency specializing in
automotive accounts.

Ensign Thomas F. King IIl1
reports that his house was destroyed
in Hurricane Andrew, and he has
moved to a new home in Miami.

Stephen D. Palmer

of Chantilly, Va., was recently pro-
moted to vice president of finance
of ‘Trafalgar House Residential, a
northern Virginia builder/developer.
He and his wife, Debbie, have two
children, Brittany, 4, and Ethan, 2.

Edmund W. Schenecker Il

was recently elected to the board of
trustees of the Modern Art Museum
of Fort Worth, where he lives with
his wife, Aida.

Camden Wood Selig

is an assistant athletic director at the
University of Virginia, where he
handles the marketing, licensing,
sales, and promotion of UVa athletic
events. Selig is also pursuing his
doctorate in higher education.

James L. Stern

retired at the rank of captain from
the U.S. Army Reserves and recent-
ly moved to Chester, N.J., where he
is an MIS systems manager at Bed,
Bath & Beyond.

Reen D. Waterman Jr.

is president of the Queen Anne
County Board of Realtors in
Annapolis, Md.

Dr. H. Kenneth William Jr.
of Alison Park, Pa., is a surgical resi-
dent at Allegheny General Hospital.

OSL

Stephen H. Abraham
See ’80.

Patricia A. Calore

of East Lansing, Mich., has become
a shareholder in the law firm of
Foster, Swift, Collins & Smith. She
is a member of the firm’s business
and tax department and practices
primarily in the employee benefits,
estate planning, and probate areas.

Thomas J. Egan Jr.

is a partner is the Washington, D.C.,
law firm of Baker & McKenzie and
recently received his LL.M. in secu-
rities regulation from Georgetown
University. Egan and his wife have a
new daughter, Shannon.

David M. Koogler

was elected to a partnership at
Butler & Binion, where he practices
finance, banking, and corporate law.
He lives with his wife, Heather
Doty, and two rottweilers in
Houston.

R. Brooke Lewis
See 76.

9

S4
Robert G. Buchanan Jr.
was recently named shareholder in
the law firm of Cowles and
Thompson. He is also involved in
the YMCA of Dallas, where he
serves on the board of management.

Craig J. Cannon

was recently married and is an asso-
ciate in the Ocala, Fla., law firm of
Weiner & Cannon.

Thomas L.H. Cocke
is senior writer at Buntin
Advertising Inc. in Nashville.

Peter G. Collins

is an equity portfolio manager with
an institutional money manager in

Dallas. He and his wife, Michelle,

have two daughters, Meredith and
Charlotte.

George A. Finly

runs a ready-mixed concrete, brick,
and building supply business in
Clarksburg, W.Va.

John V. Howard Jr.

recently became staff counsel to
Quark Inc, a software manufacturer
in Denver. Other W&L alumni at
Quark include Thomas J. Brinkman
II ’87 and Eric R. Fife ’83.

James N.L. Humphreys

is an associate attorney concentrat-

ing in insurance defense and litiga-

tion with Hunter, Smith & Davis in
Kingsport, Tenn.

R. Sean Lapp

has founded Cash Equivalent
Clearing Corp. in Chicago, which
provides information to lending
institutions on maturities, yields,
etc. Lapp plans to expand his busi-
ness to Europe and possibly South
America by the end of this year.

Robert W. Massie IV

is a senior consultant with Deloitte
and ‘Touche management consult-
ing in Washington, D.C. He and his
wife have a son, Robert, 2.

Douglas M. Muller

is an associate with the Charleston,
S.C., law firm of Buist, Moore,
Smythe & McGee.

Russell R. Rosleris

an attorney in the corporate and
finance practice group of Vorys,
Sater, Seymour & Pease in
Columbus, Ohio. He and his wife,
Danielle, have a daughter, Eleanor.

George E. Youmans Jr.

has left NationsBank and is now
general manager of Youmans
Chevrolet Co. in Macon, Ga.

O4L

Graeme L. Currie

is an associate with the Los Angeles
office of Andrews & Kurth. He con-
tinues to specialize in business and
real estate litigation.

J. Randall Minchew

of Leesburg, Va., spends his spare
time rehabilitating a home that was
recently placed on the National
Register of Historic Places.
Minchew is a partner in the law firm
of Hazel & Thomas and an adjunct
professor of law at George Mason
University.

OS

Charles B. Atkinson

is an optical engineer at the
Eastman Kodak Co. in Rochester,
N.Y.

G. Bryan Balazs

received his PhD. in chemistry from
the California Institute of
‘Technology and now works for
Lawrence Livermore National Labs
in California.

Theodore C. DeLaney Jr.,
currently a professor of history at

W&L, will join the history faculty of
the State University of New York at
Geneseo late this summer.

Gregory Wayne Hair :
of Arlington, Va., is an attorney in
the corporation finance division of
the Securities and Exchange

Commission.

John W. Herndon Ill
is a men’s basketball assistant at
North Dakota State University in

Fargo.

Dr. Christopher W. Ives

is currently involved in a gastroen-
terology fellowship at the Louisiana
State University Medical Center.
He and his wife, Lynn, have a son,
Christopher, 1.

Todd D. Jones

is a shareholder of the San Diego
firm of Klinedinst, Fliehman &
McKillop. Jones will continue to
concentrate his practice in trial work
and wil! also handle business litiga-
tion, lega! malpractice defense,
trademark and copyright infringe-
ment, general civil litigation and
appellate matters.

Charles 8. Kerr

of Falls Church, Va., has joined
RE/Max International as a member
services representative in the central
Atlantic region.

Clarke H. Morledge

is a network analyst for Unisys at

the NASA/Langley Research Center
in Hampton, Va. He also serves on
the Young Life Committee in
Williamsburg, and is pursuing a
master’s in theology through the
Institute of Youth Ministers.

James E. Noble

is a sports anchor/reporter for
WROC-TYV in Rochester, N.Y. As
sports director at WSAV-TYV in
Savannah, Ga., Noble was also a
footbal! announcer for the
SportSouth cable network.

Lt. Robert A. Schlegel
was awarded a master’s in interna-
tional studies from Old Dominion
University in Norfolk, Va.

K. Scott Van Meter

is an associate attorney with Stearns,
Weaver, Miller, Weisler, Alhadeff
& Sittuson, and lives with his wife,
Sharilyn, in Tampa.

David F. Webber
has moved to Houston and joined
the law firm of Singleton &

ksey.

§ g
David M. Delpierre

has joined the firm of Kaufman &
Canoles in Norfolk, Va. He practices
in business and commercial law,

banking, corporate finance, and
€ntertainment law.

Angeline C. Mathis

is counsel with the Georgia Institute
of Technology, where she handles
mainly intellectual property matters.

Ellen G. Owen

has been promoted to regional prod-
uct quality assurance manager in the
Richmond offices of Lawyers ‘Title
Insurance Corp.

Phyllis K. Pooley

is associate executive counsel with
the benefits review board of the
U.S. Department of Labor in
Washington, D.C.

‘56

Michael A.G. Berg

recently received a doctorate in
chemistry from Virginia Tech. He is
currently working in a post-doctoral
position at the University of Arizona
in Tucson.

Peter K. Braden

is vice president and director of
investment management research
with Wheat First Securities. He
lives with his wife and son in
Richmond.

David M. Butler

is a financial consultant with the
Baltimore office of Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner & Smith.

William P. Ewing

completed the graduate tax program
at the University of Florida and
received his LL.M degree in taxa-
tion. He now practices international
tax law for Baker & MacKenzie in
Miami.

Michael F. Guerriero
manages east coast natural gas mar-
keting for Texaco USA in Houston.

William E. Hutchinson

is a loan officer with NBD Bank in
Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich., and is
looking forward to the Gamma Nu
Tour 93.

James Y. Kerr Il

recently joined the Raleigh, N.C.,
law firm of Smith, Anderson,
Blount, Dorsett, Mitchell &
Jernigan, where he will concentrate
in civil litigation.

Dr. David D. Lewis

is founder and proprietor of Lewis
Brothers Off-Road, a mail-order
company which sells motorcycle
apparel and protective gear for off-
road motorcycle racing. He and his
wife, Judy, both ride off-road when
they are not racing.

Parker B. Plaisted

has been working as a systems engi-
neer on a new product from Xerox,
the 5775 Digital Color Copier.
Plaisted, a resident of Manhattan
Beach, Calif., recently traveled to
‘Tokyo on business.

Lt. j.g. David W. Sprunt Jr.
recently reported for duty at the 9th
Coast Guard District in Cleveland.

John M. Wheeler

is a tournament coordinator for the
Ford Senior Players Championship.
He and his wife, Sarah, live in
Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.

OOL

Lawrence A. Codispoti

is a named partner in the Suffern,
N.Y., law firm of Coral, Ortenberg,
Zeck & Codispoti. He is also the
acting village justice of Hillburn,
N.Y. He and his wife, Mary, live in
Scarsdale, N.Y.

Jeffrey D. Gaines

is a partner in the Staunton, Va.,law
firm of Black, Noland, Gaines &
Read.

Pamela Doe Walther

has been elected a partner in the
national law firm of McDermott,
Will & Emery in its Washington,
D.C., office.

’
S/

John E. Atkins

is a geophysicist with Conoco Inc. in

Lafayette, La. He is currently work-

ing on the development of an oil

field in the Gulf of Mexico.

William D. Deep

is a production engineer for Imperial
Chemical Industries. He and his
wife, Amanda, live in Richmond.

James C. Foley

is in his second year of study at the
University of Maryland, where he is
pursuing a master’s in American
history.

James H. Godfrey Jr.
is a financial consultant with Wheat
First Securities in Richmond.

Jonathan W. Hedgepeth

is a second-year associate with the
Atlanta law firm of Franklin, Moran
& Boyle.

Gilbert R. Ladd IV

is in his second year of residency in
psychiatry at the University of
Alabama in Birmingham.

Richard G. Leary

has been elected assistant vice pres-
ident at Wachovia Bank of North
Carolina in Charlotte. Leary is man-
ager of Wholesale Lockbox
Systems.

Roby D. Mize Jr.
is currently pursuing his MBA at the
University of Texas at Austin.

Steven Worth Morris

is an attorney with the Richmond
law firm of LeClair, Ryan, Joynes,
Epps & Framme.

Charles G. Nusbaum Jr.

of Arlington, Va., was recently pro-
moted to real estate manager of a
large northern Virginia industrial
portfolio in The Carey Winston Co.

G. Paige Wingert
work with the Baltimore law firm of
Venable, Baetjer & Howard.

O7L

James N.L. Humphreys
See ’84.

Gregory Franklin Van Zant
has a private law practice in
Hillsboro, Ohio, where he lives with
his wife and one-year-old son,
Gregory Franklin II.

SS (REUNION)

E.G. Allen Ill

has joined the Richmond law firm of
Hirschler, Fleischer, Weinberg, Cox
& Allen.

Paul A. Burke
is coaching and teaching at
Greenwich (Ct.) High School.

Gary H. Campbell

of Alexandria, Va., is a chartered life
underwriter for the Holleman
Companies, a life and health insur-
ance brokerage firm.

Ist Lt. Darrin Denny

is a guard officer and platoon com-
mander in the U.S. Marine Corps
and is stationed at Guatanomo Bay,
Cuba.

Robert M. Drake

has been elected assistant vice pres-
ident at Wachovia Bank of North
Carolina in Greensboro. Drake is a
corporate loan administration
officer.

John C. Gammage Jr.

is a vice president in the structured
finance division of Chemical
Securities Inc., a subsidiary of
Chemical Banking Corp. He lives in
New York.

William S8. Harrison Jr.
is pursuing his MBA at Loyola
College in Baltimore.

Michael G. Herrin

teaches U.S. history, citizenship,
economics, and debate at Valdosta
(Ga.) High School.

Roger W. Hildreth
sells corporate jets in Chevy Chase,
Md., and “loves it.”

Gilbert H. Lackey

is an affiliate broker at Haury and
Smith Real Estate Co., Nashville’s
oldest real estate firm.

Charles L. Lyle
works for Amresco, a subsidiary of
NationsBank Corp., in Charlotte.

47

John C. McDonald Jr.

is an assistant headmaster at Bayside
Academy in Daphne, Ala., and plans
on applying to graduate school next
year.

James M. Rallo

is a supervising senior accountant at
Grant Thornton in McLean, Va.,
and plans to pursue his MBA at the
University of Maryland this fall.

Alexander G. Reeves Jr.

owns his own art gallery in
Richmond, which deals in 19th- and
early 20th-century American art.

Gregory D. Russell

recently graduated from Harvard
Law School and has joined Vorys,
Sater, Seymour, & Pease of
Columbus, Ohio, where he lives
with his new wife, Anne.

Michael B. Suttle

is an assistant vice president with
Texas Commerce Bank in Houston.
He ran his first marathon this past
January.

David M. Vaughan

is a process engineer for laser-
engraved ceramic anilox production
for Praxair Surface Technologies in
Hyogo, Japan.

W. Brandt Wood

is vice president of GW Contractors
Inc., a fleet operator in New
Orleans.

OSL

Capt. Jeffrey F. Bradley

is an associate in the Staunton, Va.,
law firm of Black, Noland, Gaines &
Read.

Philip H. Buchanan

is associate director of will and trust
programs at Virginia Tech in
Blacksburg.

Tina A. Hall

specializes in estate planning in the
Baltimore office of McGuire,
Woods, Battle & Boothe.

Monica L. Miller
is a law clerk to a federal district
court judge in San Diego, Calif.

89
Krista K. Baggett
is completing her one-year intern-

ship as a school psychologist in
Staunton, Va.

Manuel E. Bonilla

of Burke, Va., is a policy analyst
with the American Academy of
Ophthalmology.

Monica M. Burke

is a systems analyst and trainer with
Ziff ‘Technologies in New York. She
reports seeing Tina Vandersteel ’90
quite often.

Christopher S. de Movellan
moved back to his hometown and
joined his father’s business, The
Prudential A.S. de Movellan Real
Estate, as corporate services manag-
er in charge of relocations.

Thomas F. Flournoy 1V

will finish the MBA program at
Emory University this spring. He
recently interned for a GTB and
A.C. Nielsen Strategic Alliance.

Michael C. Holifield

of Indianapolis recently completed
the officer indoctrination school
with the U.S. Navy.

Laura Carty Jones

is a product manager in marketing
for the Aircraft division of Michelin
‘Tire Corp. She and her husband,
William, live in Charlotte, N.C.

Robert Jeffrey Kelsey

is associated with the Memphis,
Tenn., law firm of Armstrong, Allen,
Prewitt, Gentry, Johnston, &
Holmes.

Edward D. Ludwig

is finishing his master’s of divinity
and is pastoring the New
Providence Presbyterian Church in
Salvisa, Ky.

Samuel H. McLane

is a computer consultant with
‘Temple University. He and his
wife, Candace, recently purchased a
100-year-old farmhouse in
Souderton, Pa.

Elizabeth 8. Miles

will graduate from the University of
Louisville’s physical therapy pro-
gram this May.

Clark A. Peterson

is a second-year law student at
Loyola Law School in Los Angeles
and is a staff member of the Loyo/a
Law Review.

Kennon Mary Savage

is in her second year at Columbia
University, where she is studying
psychological counseling. She
recently ran the New York
Marathon in 4:34.

Jeffrey P. Schultz

has been promoted to the position
of product manager with Reader’s
Digest Global New Business
Development, where he is responsi-
ble for children’s market develop-
ment, including one-shot and series
direct-marketing promotions.
Schultz lives in Mohegan Lake,
N.Y.

Eileen M. Sheehan

is currently attending graduate
school at the Georgia Institute of
Technology.

Stuart H. Sheldon

works for a sports marketing compa-
ny in Atlanta, where he represents
the WCA-WLA Co. to the national

governing bodies of U.S. Olympic
Sports. He also is a player and coach
on the Atlanta Water Polo Club.

Kevin A. Struthers

is enrolled in the arts management
master’s program at American
University in Washington, D.C., and
is public relations manager for the
university's department of perform-
ing arts.

Donald R. Weiner

graduated from Memphis State
University Law School and has
joined the Memphis law firm of
Glassman, Jeter, Edwards, Wade.

SIL

Rebecca Marilyn Combs
is an associate with the firm of Brin
& Brin in Corpus Christi, Texas.

Douglas C. Martinson Il
practices law with his father in the
Huntsville, Ala., firm of Martinson,
Beason & Hooper.

90

Christopher A. Beeley

is a second-year student at Yale
Divinity School and is a candidate
for Holy Orders in the Episcopal
Diocese of Texas. Beeley lives with
his wife, Shannon, in New Haven,
Conn.

David V. Betzold
is a commercial real estate officer for
Barnett Bank in Jacksonville, Fla.

Grattan T. Brown
is pursuing his master’s in English at
Memphis State University.

J. Wayne Burris

of Fayetteville, N.C., is an armor
company fire support officer in the
82nd Airborne Division Artillery at
Ft. Bragg.

2nd Lt. Gary O. Giles

recently returned from a 14-month
Asian tour as a stinger missile pla-
toon commander for the U.S.
Marine Corps. He will soon report
to a new unit in Cherry Point, N.C.

Thomas James Hamilton Ill
is an investment specialist for Fleet
Bank in Hartford, Conn.

Rogers K. Haydon Ill

works for the Antec Group in
Atlanta. He recently attended
Richard Petty’s last race with class-
mates Thomas Sheehan and Patrick
Brown.

W. Taylor Houck

recently won the 21-and-over divi-
sion of the annual Washington,
D.C., area Punt, Pass, and Kick
competition.

Cecelia M. Philipps
works with Dalkon Shield
Claimants Trust in Richmond.

Timothy R. Place

is a senior guidance counselor and
head varsity football coach at
Greene (N.Y.) Central High School.
Place earned an M.S. in counseling
psychology and a certificate of
advanced study in school counseling
from the State University of New
York at Albany.

Martha L. Smith

will graduate from the University of
Texas School of Law this May and
will join Hutcheson & Grundy in
September, working in the Houston
firm’s real estate division.

D. Woodford Webéb Jr.
works for the Webb Cos., a real
estate development company in
Lexington, Ky.

QOL,

Gladys Louise Yates
is an assistant attorney for the city of
Roanoke, Va.

9]

Christopher C. Acebal

of Ormond Beach, Fla.,is a financial
consultant and money manager
assistant at Prudential Securities.
Acebal also helped coach football at
Father Lopez High School, where
he was an assistant under former
All-Pro wide receiver Wes Chandler.

Courtney E. Adams

is in her second year of law school at
American University. She lives in
Washington, D.C., with classmates
Stephanie Fitzgerald, Ginger Gay,
Alisann McGloin, Stacey Patmore,
and Ashley Harper 92.

Jennifer A. Bandrowski

works in the development office of
the Robert W. Woodruff Arts
Center, the umbrella organization
for the Atlanta Symphony
Orchestra, the High Museum of Art,
the Alliance Theatre Co., and the
Atlanta College of Art.

David S§. Bennett

teaches high school mathematics at
the Delbarton School in
Morristown, N.]J.

P. Christian Bevington
works for CNN in Atlanta.

Robert B. Boswell

is in his second year at the
University of Arkansas Medical
School in Little Rock.

Sarah C. Clark

currently lives in Cartago, Costa
Rica, where she teaches English for
the World ‘Teach Program.

Donna S. Doughty

is a property accountant for the cor-
porate office of Long Drug Stores
California Inc. in Antioch, Calif.

Virginia T. Gay

is an administrative assistant at the
Center for Policy Analysis on
Palestine in Washington, D.C.

Thomas E. Gottsegen

is pursuing his master’s in journal-
ism at the University of Southern
California. He also works as a desk
assistant at ABC News in Los

Angeles.

Gary H. Green Il

is a second-year law student at
Harvard and has accepted a sum-
mer associate position with the west
Los Angeles firm of Mitchell,
Silberberg & Knupp.

Ann Marie Gregory
is a senior analyst for NationsBank

in Washington, D.C.

Andrew T. Guida

recently returned from traveling
abroad where he coached and
played lacrosse in England. He is
currently looking for employment in
the United States.

Yeatts M. Jones
is an intern for the Wilson Quarterly
in Washington, D.C.

Christopher H. Leiphart
recently completed the school of
infantry at the Marine Corps base in
Camp Lejeune, N.C.

E. Leslie Lewis Ill

appraises jewelry for the Shane Co.
and was active in the Atlanta cam-
paign to elect Bill Clinton.

Patricia Lopes
is a second-year Rhodes Scholar at
Oxford College in England.

2nd Lt. Andrew B. Manson
graduated from Ranger School last
March and is currently stationed at
Fort Bliss, Texas, where he serves
as a tank platoon leader with the 3rd
Armored Cavalry Regiment.

Alisann McGloin

has been promoted to community
editor of the Mount Vernon Gazette, a
weekly newspaper in the D.C. area.

Duncan L. Miller

is a Management trainee at the
National Bank of Commerce in
Memphis.

Mary L. Moreland
works for Richards Hogg
International in New York.

Stacey \. Patmore

'S Outreach coordinator for the
American Health Line, a daily news
Service on health policy reform.

Mark E. Phippard

'S a software developer with
SoftLanding Systems Inc. of
Petersborough, N.H.

Simone FE. Schonenberger
teaches English in Brno,
Czechoslovakia.

Mary W. Stanton

is searching for a job in Washington,
D.C., following her work for the
Bush/Quayle campaign.

John C. Thorsen
is assistant director of admissions at
the Darlington School in Rome, Ga.

Richard L. Weinstein
is an assistant public relations
account executive in Baltimore.

GIL

Franklin Dennis Cordell
is an associate at the Washington,
D.C., firm of Covington & Burling.

Thomas Eugene Evans

is an associate with the newly
formed Dallas firm of Dehay &
Elliston.

Brian Lee Jackson

is a second lieutenant in the Marine
Corps and recently graduated from
the Basic School in Quantico, Va.

9

9?
Louise G. Adamson
is pursuing her MBA and works in
the real estate division of the CSX
Corp. in Richmond.

James H. Cooper Jr.
teaches English to Japanese seventh
graders in Myoko Village, Japan.

F. Gabrey Croft
lives in New York, where she works
at GQ magazine.

David J. Freed

is a first-year law student at the
Dickinson School of Law in Carlisle,
Pa.

Ashley P. Harper

is editor of the Journal of College
Admission for the National
Association of College Admission
Counselors in Washington, D.C.

Alana B. Horrigan

joined the Peace Corps and has
worked in Mali, West Africa, since
August. She works in small enter-
prise development in a small village
110 kilometers southeast of the
capital.

Emily M. McClintock

works for the Telluride Ski Resort
in Colorado. She reports that class-
mates Jennifer Donaldson, L.
Peyton Chapman III, H. Eugene
Pride, and Scott Harkins all live in
Telluride.

Stephanie L. McHaney
is a sales associate with Frito-Lay in
Raleigh, N.C.

Jennifer D. Noble

is an account executive with Fuqua
& Eyre Inc.: Advertising and
Marketing Service in Dallas.

Not Unmindtul
Of the Future

The University’s motto, non incautus futuri, serves to focus each of
us in the development office on the responsibilities we share in build-
ing a brighter financial future for Washington and Lee. Our role is to
help every alumnus, parent, and friend of this old school see that he or
she has a vital role to play in creating new opportunities for the future
generations of students who one day will claim with great pride that
they are a part of a very special community—one that cherishes honor,
integrity, and service to others above all else.

‘To teach others the importance of these immutable qualities, these
hallmark traits of Washington and Lee, represents a high calling that
goes far beyond self-interest. ‘hat calling is seen in the daily lives of
all who hold this University dear. Gifts of time, talent, and personal
treasure distinguish the donor as much as the recipient, and we have a
long and proud tradition of such gifts of self at W&L.

For that reason, I thought it appropriate to pause from the pace
that the capital campaign necessitates and offer a heartfelt word of
thanks to those of you who have responded to that high calling so gen-
erously. As I write, we have reached the $73 million mark in our $127
million campaign. That is a considerable accomplishment in which we
can all take pride, especially given the vicissitudes of the marketplace
and the degree of financial uncertainty that seems to have plagued our
nation of late.

From my little corner of the world, where planned gifts occupy
most of my attention, I can tell story upon story of men and women
who have made meaningful investments in the lives of young men
and women they will never know. For these extraordinary stewards of
our future, the intangible benefits greatly outweigh the tangible bene-
fits derived from making a gift to Washington and Lee.

‘Though enhanced income and significant charitable deductions
can prove to be healthy incentives for making a gift, we all know that
true gifts come from one’s heart, not one’s head. Your response to the
campaign, “On the Shoulders of Giants,” has served as a source of
comfort and inspiration to all of us who work along the Colonnade or
in Lewis Hall. Your response is a signal to others that when asked that
they, too, should open their hearts to Washington and Lee so that it
might continue to prosper.

I write this in profound gratitude for your wonderful generosity
and your willingness to make a difference at General Lee’s college.

As always, if there is anything I or any of my colleagues can do to
help you consider the role you can play in the future of this unique
enterprise, please do not hesitate to call.

David R. Long
Director of Planned and Capital Giving

R. Lee Parker Ill
is a programmer for the Datatel
Corp. in Reston, Va.

Scott R.E. Prigge

is operations manager for Hill
Properties in Charlotte, where he
manages commercial properties.

Evelyn A. Schroeder
is a sales representative with Pfizer
Labs in Jackson, Miss.

Edward F. Smith
attends the George Mason School of
Law in Washington, D.C.

Thomas C. Snedeker

is a paralegal with the Washington,
D.C., law firm of Keller &
Heckman.

Susan D. Watkins

is pursuing a master’s in gifted and
talented education at the University
of Alabama.

Fae

Julie Ann Alagna

is associated with the Raleigh, N.C.,
law firm of Maupin, Taylor, Ellis &
Adams.

Monte F. Bourjaily IV

has started a new business venture
that will open opportunities in
Belarus and other nations in the for-
mer Soviet Union, for expanding
U.S. companies.

Elizabeth Lyn Ewert

is an attorney with the San
Francisco firm of Gordon & Rees,
where she works in civil defense liti-
gation.

David Roger Finn

is an attorney in the business and
real estate department of ‘T'ydings &
Rosenberg in Baltimore.

Peter Thomas Hansen
is an attorney with Allen H. Olsen in
Warrenton, Va.

Robert Jeffrey Kelsey
See °89.

Lisa Elaine Meadows

reports she is enjoying her clerkship
with a bankruptcy judge in Los
Angeles.

Douglas Alan Pettit

is an associate at the San Diego law
firm of Klinedinst, Fliehman &
McKillop, where he concentrates his
practice in business and civil litiga-
tion.

Christopher Russell Rau

is an associate at the Roanoke, Va.,
firm of Krippendorf & Associates.
Rau’s practice will concentrate in
the areas of taxation, bankruptcy,
and civil litigation.

Judith Ann Rivera
is an attorney with John L. Bagwell
in Grundy, Va.

Christian Edward Roberson
is an associate attorney with Taylor
and Roberson in Birmingham, Ala.

David Howard Timmins

is a associate at the Houston firm of
Sewell & Riggs. His practice will
concentrate in general business and
litigation.

Marriages

Charles F, Clarke Jr. ’38

to Katherine Duffy Nelson, on Sept.
26, 1992, in Chagrin Falls, Ohio.
Clarke is a partner in the Cleveland
law firm of Squire, Sanders &
Dempsey.

John M. Ham ’57
to Elizabeth C. McConnell, on June
27, 1992, in Bedford, N.Y.

Dr. John R. McGill ’67

to Margaret Carson Bragg, on Oct.
10, 1992, in Bangor, Maine. McGill
is currently chairman of the execu-
tive committee of the Maine
Medical Association and is presi-
dent-elect of the Maine chapter of
the American College of Surgeons.

William A. Gatlin III ’71

to Claudia Manning Zaner, on Oct.
10, 1992. The couple lives in
Jacksonville, Fla.

James D. Gilliam Jr. °72

to Barbara Burke Southerland, on
Dec. 19, 1992, in Wilmington, N.C.
Gilliam is the president of the
Carolina Leaf ‘Tobacco Co. in
Greenville, N.C.

Andrew G. Hollinger ’73

to Sandra Rebecca Offatt, on July
10, 1992. ‘The couple lives in
Bedford, ‘Texas, where Hollinger is
a consultant with IBM Consulting
Services.

Jeffrey M. Grimm ’74

to Jessica M. Ney, on May 23, 1992.
Ben E. Grimm °49, the groom’s
father, was a member of the wed-
ding party. The couple, who lives in
Charlottesville, Va., has legally
adopted the new combined name of
Ney-Grimm.

Wilson B, Folmar’75

to Deborah O’Connell on May 22,
1992, in Montgomery, Ala. Folmar is
a soils engineer with the Alabama
Highway Department.

Marshall K. Snyder ’77

to Melanie Sue Moskowitz, on Sept.
6, 1992, in Washington, D.C. Snyder
currently works at the Communica-
tion Officers School at the Marine
Corps Base in Quantico, Va.

Arthur A. Birney Jr. °78
to Allison Kramer, on Oct 3, 1992.
The couple lives in Annapolis, Md.

G. David Low ’78

to JoAnn Andochick, on Dec. 26,
1992, in Weirton, W.Va. Low is a
NASA astronaut and is scheduled to
fly on the space shuttle Endeavour
on April 28, 1993. The couple lives
in Houston.

George A.F. Berry ’79

to Kim Combs, on Aug. 5, 1992, in
Mt. Meigs, Ala. The wedding party
included classmates Richard Wiles,
Jim H. Guynn Jr., and David
Hamra. The couple lives in
Hampton, Ga.

Barry R. Dunn ’82

to Kathleen Christensen, on Nov.
14, 1992, in New York City. The
wedding party included classmates
Travis S. Barnes, Preston Moore III,
Charles H. Prioleau, and Jeffrey W.
Hamill ’81. The couple resides in
New York, where Dunn works for
the Bank of America.

Charles F. Randolph °82

to JaLynne Pearson, on Sept. 26,
1992. The wedding party included
classmates Usher T. Winslett III,
Barry R. Dunn, Mark R. Hancock, J.
Stuart Miller, Timothy C. ‘Taylor,
and J. Michael Watson ’79. The cou-
ple lives in New York City, where
Randolph is an assistant vice presi-
dent for corporate finance at ABN
AMRO Bank.

J. Ambler Cusick ’83

to Meredith Lee Miller, on Oct. 10,
1992, in Winnetka, III. Cusick is a
stockbroker at Alex Brown and Sons
in Washington, D.C.

Stephen K. Greene °83

to Carolyn Boyd, on Nov. 7, 1992.
‘The couple lives in Birmingham,
Ala.

Patrick J. Buttarazzi Jr. ’84
to Deborah Moran, on July 11, 1992,
in Boston. The wedding party
included classmates Kenneth J.
Andsager, David C. Judge, Roger
McDonough, John Buttarazzi ’83,
and Edward V. Buttarazzi ’85. The
couple lives in Baltimore.

Roger D. McDonough 84

to Florence Buttarazzi, on Aug. 8,
1992, in Auburn, N.Y. The wedding
party included David C. Judge °84,
Robert D. Phillips ’85, James T.
Hamlin ’87, and James F. Owen ’87.

R. Alan Pritchard Jr. ’84

to Lou Anne Day, on July 11, 1992.
The wedding party included class-
mates George E. Youmans, Thomas
L. Cocke, George M. Lupton III,
Christoph P. Robinson, and Robert
Smithwick III. Pritchard is an asso-
ciate attorney with Heiskell,
Danelson, Becuman, Adams,
Williams & Kirsch in Memphis.

Capt. Parker Schenecker ’84

to Julie Kay Powers, on Oct. 10,
1992, in New Orleans. The wedding
party included Robert J. Whann IV
"86, Charles W. Stern *85, Paul M.
Kuveke III °84, George L.
Stradtman 84, John L. McCants 84,
Robert C. Jenevein ’84, and
Edmund W. Schenecker ’83.

Dow T. Voelker ’84

to Brenda M. Eskew, on May 16,
1992. The couple lives in
Grandview Heights, Ohio.

Dr. Jeffrey D. Dixon ’85

to Siobhan Gilleran, on May 16,
1992, in Oklahoma City. Dixon will
complete his residency in emer-
gency medicine this June.

David A. Sizemore °85

to Julie Wilkinson, on Aug. 8, 1992,
in Boone, N.C. The wedding party
included classmates Michael S.
Bearup, William L. Joel, David M.
Wilkinson, Kurt A. Shreiner,
Christopher H. Williams, and James
L. Wood.

Lesley M. Conradi ’85L
to Alan Alexander Hodge, on Oct. 3,
1992. The couple lives in Baltimore.

John M. Miller ’85L

to Brenda David, on Aug. 28, 1992.
Miller is a managing partner of
Bartlett & Miller in Ponte Vedra
Beach, Fla.

Charles F. Bentley III ’86
to Patricia A. Friedman, on Nov. 7,
1992. The couple lives in Seattle.

Stephen E. Losquadro ’86

to Stella Mangiamele, on June 6,
1992. The wedding party included
classmates Peter J. Ierardi, Albert B.
Vespoli, Steven B. Connett, and
Christopher J. Komosa. The couple
lives in Wadug River, N.Y.

Kathleen A. Plante ’86

to Richard Cordsen, on Nov. 7,
1992, in Washington, D.C. Plante is
completing her master’s in social
policy at Georgetown University.

Bradley C. Steuart ’86

to Janie Haynes, on June 27, 1992,
in Washington Cathedral. The wed-
ding party included Paul L. Fearey
’86, Carter M. Steuart ’88, Hugh T.
Steuart ’88, Charles C. Kannapell
*86, and Guy T. Steuart ’80.

Jack C. Clary ’86L

to Claire Davis, on April 18, 1992.
Clary is an attorney with the Grand
Rapids, Mich., law firm of Clary,
Nantz, Wood, Hottius, Rankin &
Cooper, where he specializes in rep-

resenting management in labor rela-
tions and employment matters.
Julie L. Gregory "86L

to Jere Lee Hodgin, on Aug. 22,
1992. Julie practices with the Office
of the U.S. Trustee. The couple
lives in Roanoke, Va.

Robert Q. Berlin ’87

to Lisa Herman, on Sept. 5, 1992.
The wedding party included class-
mates Joseph B. Krastel, Mark S.
Herman, John P. Roe, Frederick J.
Bissinger, John G. Mitchell,
Christopher B. Saxman, and Jeffrey
S. Reichert °85. Berlin is a principal
in the leveraged buyout firm of
CHF Capital Partners in Menlo
Park, Calif.

Ronald L. Curry II ’87

to Robin D. Bean ’89, on July 12,
1992, in Boulder, Colo. The wed-
ding party included Daphne L.
Blyden *89, Sean D. Reynolds 90,
Andrew A. St. John °86, Andrew J.
Tartaglione ’87, William K.
Thornton '88, Tonia R. Bean ’92,
David S. Daves ’90, and Koren
Washington "92. The couple lives in
Denver, where Jeffrey works for the
Federal! Aviation Administration and
Robin is manager of the Aurora
Planned Parenthood.

Richard W. Hurley Ill °87

to Barbara Silvey, on Oct. 24, 1992.
Classmate T.J. Finnerty was a mem-
ber of the wedding party. Hurley is
head coach of the Cranford High
Schoo! varsity hockey team and
works for the S&A Corp. The cou-
ple lives in Linden, N.J.

C. Steven Smith ’87

to Vera D. Cranford, on Aug. 1,
1992, in New Orleans. Smith works
for Coopers & Lybrand.

Matthew H. Steilberg ’87

to Ann Kemp, on Feb. 22, 1992.
Steilberg is an assistant vice presi-
dent with First Union Bank. The
couple lives in Raleigh, N.C.

W. David Dunn Jr. ’88

to Becky Castleman, on June 13,
1992. The wedding party included
Robert R. Hawkins °87 and V.
Alexander Bryant ’87. The couple
lives in Lexington, Ky., where
Dunn is a sales representative with
Ethicon Endo-Surgery.

Carter M. Steuart ’88

to Katherine Nelligan ’89, on Nov.
21, 1992. in Lee Chapel. Carter is an
Investment officer for ASB Manage-
ment in Washington, D.C., and
Katherine teaches Spanish and
Coaches tennis at Episcopal High
School. The couple lives in
Alexandria, Va.

Robin D. Bean ’89
See Ronald L. Curry II ’87.

2nd Lt. Eilliam Cantey ’89

to Mary Rutledge Faucette, on Dec.
27, 1992, in Columbia, S.C. Cantey
is a second-year medical student at
the University of South Carolina.

Shaun A. Crawford ’89

to Jennifer Anne Sloan, on Aug. 29,
1992, in Birmingham, Ala. The wed-
ding party included 1988 alumni
Steve Alby, Peter Boatner, Paul
Giles, Ed Gonzalez, Greg Kettles,
Chris Munsey, and Holly
Buffington ’92. The couple lives in
Birmingham.

Christopher Cunningham ’89
to Margaret Mary Hanton, on May
23, 1992, in St. Paul, Minn. The
wedding party included classmates
Jeff Cummings, Ned Spencer, Drew
Mackenzie, and Bill Lasseigne.
Cunningham, a third-year law stu-
dent at the University of Puget
Sound School of Law, will join the
Seattle law firm of Preston, Thor-
grimson, Shidler, Gates & Ellis as an
associate this fall.

Katherine Nelligan ’89
See Carter M. Steuart ’88.

James T. Busenlener °90

to Tanya Marie Schneller, on Dec.
19, 1992. The couple lives in
Metairie, La.

Reiss F. Wilks °90

to Carey E. Leggett, on May 30,
1992, at Skylark. The wedding party
included Dean C. Barry ’89, ‘Todd
W. Bishop ’90, Paul C. Galanides
90, and David Wilkes *88L. The
couple lives in Akron, Ohio, where
Wilks is a first-year student at the
University of Akron School of Law.

Kathleen E.McLeroy ’90L

to Albert J. Whelan III, on Sept. 17,
1992. The couple lives in Tampa,
where McLeroy is an associate at
Carlton, Fields, Ward, Emmanuel,
Smith & Cutler.

Jonathan M. Bull ’91

to Ashley E. Cecil, on July 25, 1992,
in Lee Chapel. The couple is cur-
rently living in South Hadley, Mass,
where Bull is working on his mas-
ter’s in geology at the University of
Massachusetts.

Bernadette Kempton °91,

to Rhett F. McLaren, on Dec. 26,
1992, in Harrisonburg, Va. Laura M.
Lyman ’91 was a member of the
wedding party. The couple lives in
Houston, where both are attending
the Baylor College of Medicine.

Janice Ferman °91

to Steve Straske, on Dec. 19, 1992,
in Tampa. The wedding party
included Lindsay B. de Haven "91,
Chamie C. Schildt 91, and John T.
Touchton Jr. 90. The couple lives
in New York City, where Ferman is
in a master’s program at Columbia
Teachers College.

Melissa C. Boys ’93L
to Paul F. Kirgis ’94L,
on Dec. 30, 1992, in Cincinnati.

Births

Mr. Charles Davis ’68, @
Mrs. Patricia Goding Davis
’81L, ason, Benjamin Lawrence,
on February 8, 1992. He joins a
brother, Chris. The family lives in
Mechanicsville, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. David Kantor ’73,
a daughter, Gavriele Jule, on May 6,
1992. She joins two sisters, Nicole
and Alissa, and a brother, Oren.
Kantor has been chosen to play on
the U.S. Maters Maccabiam
Basketball Team in Israel. The fam-
ily lives in Boca Raton, Fla.

Mr. @ Mrs. John Runge ’73,

a daughter, Victoria Marie, on Sept.
21, 1992. The family lives in Irving,
‘Texas.

Mr. @ Mrs. John M. Shuey Jr.
°73, ason, John Miller III, on May
24, 1992. The family lives in
Shreveport, La.

Dr. @ Mrs. William F.
Beacham ’74, ason, Christopher
Winston, on Aug. 6, 1992. The fami-
ly lives in Ponchatoula, La.

Mr. @ Mrs. Douglas B. Hutton
°74, ason, Elihu K., on June 1,
1992. Hutton was recently promoted
to production manager for the North
Charles Street Design Organization,
which does creative communica-
tions for colleges and universities.

Dr. @ Mrs. Richard 8S. McCain
’74, ason, Richard Sterling Jr., on
Dec. 24, 1992. McCain practices
orthopedic surgery in Columbia,
S.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Gordon F.
Saunders ’74, a daughter,
Lyndsey Paige, on Oct. 30, 1992.
The family lives in Lexington, Va.

Dr. @ Mrs. Lawrence B.
Cahoon °75, ason, Christian
Bruce, on Oct. 23, 1992. He joins a
brother, Sam. Cahoon was promoted
to professor in the department of
biological sciences at the University
of North Carolina at Wilmington.

Mr. @ Mrs. Richard R.
Councill ’75, ason, Timothy
Rowe, on Aug. 8, 1992. He joins his
two brothers, Matthew, 5, and
Christopher, 3. The family lives in
‘Towson, Md.

Dr. @ Mrs. Mitchel J.
Seleznick ’75, ason, Tony
Joseph, on Feb. 17, 1992. Seleznick
is an associate professor of internal
medicine at the University of South
Florida, where he specializes in
allergy and rheumatology. He and
his wife, Nerina, live in Tampa.

Mr. @ Mrs. William A.
Wallace ’75, ason, Mark Allen,
on Dec 11, 1992; he joins a sister,
Sarah, 4, and brother, Daniel, 2. The
family lives in Oak Park, IIl.

Mr. @ Mrs. C. Lynch Christian
III °76, ason, C. Lynch IV, on
Oct. 5, 1992. He joins his sisters,
Hannah, 8, and Sarah, 4. The family
lives in Lynchburg, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Douglas M. Farris
°76, a daughter, Elizabeth Stone,
on July 10, 1992. Farris and his wife,
Patricia, live in Charlotte.

Mr. @ Mrs. Jay R. Fries °76,
a son, George Rooney, on Nov. 12,
1992. The family lives in Monkton,
Md.

Mr. @ Mrs. James Gould ’76,
a son, Patrick Winfrey, on May 28,
1992. The family lives in Arlington,
Va.

Mr. © Mrs. Neil Johnson ’76,

a daughter, Hannah Hummingbird,

on July 29, 1992. The family lives in
Shreveport, La.

Mr. @ Mrs. Peter A.J.
(Symolon) MacHare ’76,

a daughter, Erica Merifi, on Nov. 21,
1992. MacHare is the law librarian at
the U.S. Department of Agriculture
in Washington, D.C. After leaving
W&L, he legally changed his name
from Symolon to MacHare to reflect
his Scottish heritage and Jacobite
politics. MacHare and his wife,
Senpa, live in College Park, Md.

Dr. @ Mrs. William G.
Brothers ’77, ason, David
Alexander, on Oct. 29, 1992. He
joins two sisters, Carrie Anne, 6, and
Jordan Elizabeth, 3. The family
lives in Newport News, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. William E. Craver
III °77, ason, Samuel Thomas, on
July 14, 1992. He joins his brother,
Will, 2. The family lives on
Sullivans Island, S.C.

51

 

Mary Frances Cummings of Lexington, with the letter that led to this story.

Foul-Weather Friends

A $25 Gift Creates a Flood of
Correspondence

In Ojai, Calif., when it rains, it floods—as resident David Wharton
°37L will testify. “This is dry country around here,” he says. “When it
rains a lot, the water level goes from nothing to 10 feet overnight and
washes out everything in its path.”

Such was the case last spring, when heavy storms destroyed the
homes of people living in the river bottom—but not Wharton, who
lives safely in the middle of it all: “Floods go down one side and the
other side, but they don’t go down our way.

Nevertheless, news of the Ojai flooding made headlines nation-
J

wide, drawing the attention of Mary Frances Cummings, widow of

1933 W&L graduate Russell M. Cummings. The Lexington resident
looked up Ojai in the alumni directory, recognized Wharton’s name,
and mailed him a $25 check with a note to help the local relief effort.

Which is where our story takes a twist. Wharton cashed the check,
then lost the note—and when a subsequent corneal transplant left
him temporarily blind, he contacted the W@L A/umni Magazine to find
his anonymous benefactor. “If you could let word percolate around
Lexington,” he wrote, “she (whoever) may hear and know that her
gift was not lost but found its way to good use, for there were many
flood victims.”

From the clues in Wharton’s letter, Rob Mish ’76, W&L’s assistant
director of alumni programs, tracked down the former Mary Frances

Nicely, who lived downstairs from Wharton at 306 Jefferson Street

during the 1934-35 school year. Cummings doesn’t do this sort of

thing often—“once in a blue moon,” she says—but adds: “I like send-
ing money exactly where I want it to PO. If | happen to know of a situ-
ation, | do it.”

And Wharton—who retired as American consul to Bermuda in
1964 and later wrote 7he Alaska Gold Rush and They Don’t Speak Russtan
in Sitka—is grateful: “I felt ashamed that I hadn’t let her know that
the money did get to a good cause.” A second corneal transplant, in

December, is working out better—which means he should be able to

see Cummings, and this thank-you, in the not-too-distant future.

Mr. @ Mrs. John Magee V ’77,
a daughter, Charlotte Parker, on
Dec. 10, 1992. She joins a brother,
John, 6, and a sister, Elizabeth, 1.
The family lives in Charlotte.

Mr. @ Mrs. Frank K. Turner
Jr. °77, a daughter, Lili, on Sept.
22, 1992. She joins a brother, Keech.
‘The family lives in Baltimore.

Mr. @ Mrs. Benjamin 1. Johns
Jr. ’78, ason, Gibson Waterman,
on Aug. 16, 1992, in Bocova, Va. He
joins Tucker, 3, and Bowman, 2.

Mr. @ Mrs. Robert J. Marvin
Jr. ’78, ason, Ryan Zelazny, on
Dec. 28, 1992. Marvin has started
his own law practice in Pawling,
N.Y., and the family lives in
Bronxville, N.Y.

Mr. @ Mrs. Robert B.
McMichael ’78, a daughter,
Meghan Phillips, on Dec. 28, 1992.
She joins a sister, Emily. The family
lives in New Brunswick, N.]J.

Mr. @ Mrs. Ralph A. Moore
Jr. ’78, a daughter, ‘Taylore
Renee, on Oct. 20, 1992. The family
lives in Manassas, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Jeffrey Rich ’78,

a daughter, Madeleine Archer, on
Nov. 23, 1992. Madeleine joins her
brother, Jonathan, 4. Rich is a part-
ner with the Woodbridge, N.J., law
firm of Wilentz, Goldman & Spitzer.

Mr. @ Mrs. Rand D. Weinberg
°78, *82L, ason, Cody Samuel, on
July 14, 1992. The family lives in
Ijamsville, Md.

Mr. © Mrs. William F.
Bernart IV ’79, ason, William F.
V, on Nov. 3, 1992. ‘The family lives
in Charlotte.

Mr. @ Mrs. John E. Coffey
‘79L, ason, Peter Dolston, on
April 3, 1992. He joins a sister, Erin,
4, and brother, D.J., 2. The family
lives in Alexandria, Va.

Mr. © Mrs. John L. Connolly
’79, a daughter, Catherine Greer,
on Dec. 7, 1992. She joins her broth-
er, Jay, in the family’s New Canaan,
Conn., home.

Mr. @ Mrs. Henry H.
Hairston °’79, ason, Samuel
McCabe II, on July 15, 1992. The
family lives in Silver Spring, Md.

Mr. @ Mrs. Richard Peter
Moran Jr. °79, ason, Richard
Peter III, on Oct. 30, 1992. He joins
a sister, Megan, 5, and a brother,
Bryan, 3. The family lives in
Bethesda, Md.

Mr. © Mrs. David P.
Blackwood ’80, ason, Cameron,
on Oct. 20, 1992. He joins his broth-
er, Patrick, and a sister, Elizabeth.
Blackwood was recently named as a
shareholder in the law firm of
Greenstein, DeLorne & Luchs in
Washington, D.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Guy S. Brossy ’80,
a son, William Edward Hutchens,
on June 1, 1992. The family lives in
Haddam, Conn.

Mr. @ Mrs. Douglas C. Dorsey
’80, ason, Peter Nicholls, on Noy.
15, 1992. The family lives in
Richmond.

Dr. @ Mrs. William H.
Matthai Jr. ’80, a daughter,
Alice, on Sept. 27, 1992. The family
lives in Merion, Pa.

Mr. @ Mrs. David Meyers ’80,
a son, Bryan Alexander, on June 5,
1992. He joins a sister, Kelly, 4, and
the family lives in Western Springs,
Ill.

Mr. © Mrs. Carter Tucker ’80,
a daughter, Margaret Randolph, on
Sept. 15, 1992. She joins a brother,
Harrison, 2. The family lives in
Richmond.

Mr. @ Mrs. W. Tobin Cassels

III ’81, ason, William Tobin IV,

on Dec. 7, 1992. The family lives in
Columbia, S.C.

Mrs. Patricia Goding Davis
’81L. See Charles R. Davis ’68.

Mr. @ Mrs. W. Cope Moyers
’81, ason, William Henry, on Oct.
24, 1992. The family lives in
Atlanta.

Mr. © Mrs. J. Ross Newell Ill
"81, ’85L, adaughter, Emma
Paynter, on Dec. 25, 1992. She joins
a sister, Liza, 2. The family lives in
Staunton, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Geoffrey P. Sisk
‘81, a daughter, Charlotte Petree,
on Jan. 4, 1993. She joins her broth-
ers, Blakeley, 3, and Peter, 1. Sisk is
a financial consultant at Wheat First
Securities in Richmond.

Mr. @ Mrs. James B. Haynes
III ’82, a daughter, Caroline
Hamilton, on July 31, 1992. The
family lives in Durham, N.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Alexander W.
McAlister ’82, ason, Alexander
Worth Jr., on March 29, 1992. The
family lives in Charlotte.

Mr. @ Mrs. William R. Parks
Jr. ’82, a daughter, Jennifer Lee,
on Sept. 28, 1992. Parks has started

a new company, Dominion Post,
that provides post-production video
services to the Washington, D.C.,

area.

Dr. @ Mrs. David Moore ’83,
a daughter, Hanna Wise, on Nov.
25, 1992. She joins a sister, Kirsten,
2. The family lives in Vicksburg,
Miss., where Moore is a toxicologist
with the Corps of Engineers’
Waterways Experiment Station.

Ms. Patricia L. Woehrlen

'931, ason, Patrick Nathaniel, on
Oct. 8, 1992. Woehrlen works in the
Children Services Unit of the
Monroe County Law Department in
Rochester, N.Y., where she prose-
cutes cases of child abuse and

neglect.

Mr. © Mrs. Robert Smithwick
[I] °84, a daughter, Brannen
Marie, on Dec. 12, 1992. Smithwick
is a vice president with Morgan
Keegan and Co., a Memphis-based
investment brokerage firm.

Mr. @ Mrs. Charles R. Spencer
III ’84, ason, Charles R. IV, on
Sept. 27, 1992. Spencer recently
changed jobs and now works with
his father, Charles R. Spencer Jr.

58, at Legg, Mason, Wood &
Walker in Newport News, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Henry Bond ’85,

a daughter, Lindsey Jean Audree,
on Novy. 23, 1992. Bond was recently
promoted to executive vice presi-
dent of the T. Talbott Bond Co. in
Baltimore.

Mr. © Mrs. B. Darby Brower
’85, ason, S. Bryan Jennings, on
Dec. 11, 1992. The family lives in
Jacksonville.

Mr. © Mrs. Davis G. Reese
‘'85L, a daughter, Christiana
Graham, on July 16, 1992. Reese is
general counsel of Ark Energy Inc.,
an energy company in Laguna Hills,
Calif.

Mrs. Jeannette McAllister
Baker ’86L, ason, John
McAllister, on Aug. 22, 1992. She
and her husband live in Houston,
where Baker works for the U.S.
Attorney’s Office.

Dr. & Mrs. Joseph C.
Campbell Jr. ’86, ason, Joseph
Clyde III, on Oct. 15, 1992, in
Norfolk, Va. Campbell will start a
residency in orthopedic surgery this
summer at the Bethesda Naval
Hospital.

Mr. & Mrs. Christopher D.
John 86, a daughter, Jordan Hall,
on Aug. 20, 1992. The family lives
In Greenbelt, Md.

Mr. @ Mrs. Edward K. Oden
’86L, a daughter, Kelly Elise, on
July 19, 1992. The family lives in
Dallas.

Mr. @ Mrs. David Glenn
Hammond ’87L, a daughter,
Emily Caroline, on Oct. 1, 1992.
The family lives in Charleston,
W.Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. William H.
Surgner Jr. ’87, a daughter,
Anne Walker, on Dec. 5, 1992.
Surgner is a second-year law student
at W&L.

Mr. @ Mrs. Mark A. Zavatsky
‘87, a daughter, Lauren Nicole, on
Oct. 8, 1992. The family lives in
Wheeling, W.Va.

Ross S. Haine ’88L

@ Elizabeth P. Murtagh ’89L,
a son, Holt Michael, on Oct. 23,
1992. The family lives in Lexington.

Mrs. Melissa Thrasher Peeler
’89, and her husband, Michael, a
daughter, Mary Elizabeth, on Oct.
30, 1992. The family lives in
Nashville.

Mrs. Rebecca Reynolds
Simulcik °90, and her husband
Stephen, a daughter, Emma
Elizabeth, on Nov. 21, 1992. The
family recently bought a new house
in Woodford, Va.

in Memoriam

Dr. Calvin T. Burton ’25,
retired ophthamologist, died March
16, 1992, in Irvington, Va. After
leaving W&L in 1923, he received a
medical degree from the University
of Virginia in 1928 and practiced
medicine in Roanoke for more than
50 years. Burton was a member of
the Second Presbyterian Church in
Roanoke and the Raven Society. He
was elected as Most Outstanding
Medical Alumni of the University of
Virginia in 1983, and was a charter
member of the Medical Alumni
Advisory Committee of the
University of Virginia, as well as a
board member and president of the
Medical Alumni Association and
president of the Virginia O&O
Society.

Henry M. Wilson °26,

retired district manager of South
Central Bell ‘Telephone Co., died
Dec. 2, 1992, in Owensboro, Ky.
Wilson earned a B.S. in commerce
from W&L and was a member of
Kappa Alpha fraternity and Omicron
Delta Kappa in addition to being
captain of the basketball team and
quarterback of the football team.
Wilson was one of three founders of
Junior Achievement in Owensboro

and served on numerous local
boards, including the Community
Chest and Red Cross. He also
served as president of the
Owensboro Rotary Club and as a
director of the Kentucky Chamber
of Commerce. In 1981, Wilson
received the Liberty Bell Award,
presented to an outstanding local
citizen by the Daviess County Bar
Association.

Walter R. Bishop °27,

retired automobile dealer, died Feb.
22, 1992, in Emlenton, Pa. While at
W&L, Bishop majored in journal-
ism, was a member of Pi Kappa Phi
fraternity, and played in local
orchestras. After graduation, he
moved to Oil City, Pa., where he
worked at the Derrick as city and
later sports editor. He opened
Bishop Motor Co. in Emlenton in
1936, where he sold Buicks,
Pontiacs, and Packards until retiring
in 1974. Bishop served on the board
of directors at Farmers National
Bank and was a charter member of
the Emlenton Kiwanis Club.

John G. Koedel ’28L,

retired Pittsburgh attorney, died
Nov. 29, 1992, in Saluda, Va. Koedel
received his undergraduate degree
from the University of Pittsburgh in
1925 and was a member of Phi
Delta Theta fraternity. He retired
from his law practice in 1982 and
moved to Erie, Pa.

Fred B. King Jr. ’30,

retired mortician, died Dec. 22,
1992, in Youngstown, Ohio. King
was unable to return to W&L his
senior year and instead went to work
in the family business, becoming a
licensed funeral director in 1932.
King was a former president of the
Chamber of Commerce, YMCA and
Kiwanis in Youngstown and the
recipient of many honors, including
Youngstown Man of the Year, Eagle
Lodges Humanitarian of the Year,
and the 33rd Degree of Scottish
Rite in Freemasonry.

Frank B. Leverette °31,
former purchasing director for the
Leon County (Fla.) School Board,
died Sept. 28, 1991, in ‘Tallahassee,
Fla. Leverette left W&L in 1928,
and was an automobile dealership
manager and owner for 22 years
before becoming an administrator
with the Florida Milk Commission
in 1954. He was also a former mayor
of Perry, Fla.

Charles Peeper 31,

former president of the Clark
Peeper Co., died March 10, 1992, in
St. Louis. Peeper graduated from
W&L with a B.S. in commerce and
was a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon
fraternity.

The Hon. George R. Smith °32,
retired state Supreme Court justice,

died Oct. 20, 1992, in Little Rock,
Ark. Smith attended law school at
W&L for one year and received his
law degree from the University of
Arkansas. He practiced law in Little
Rock until 1949, when he was sworn
into the Arkansas Supreme Court.
Smith retired in 1986, after nearly
four decades on the high court, as
the senior appelate justice in the
entire United States. Smith’s legal
opinions were often required read-
ing for new appellate court judges.
An avid crossword enthusiast, he
sold many puzzles to The New York
Times.

Dan P. Arnold ’38,

former Clearfield, Pa., attorney, died
June 20, 1992. While at W&L, he
was a member of Pi Kappa Phi fra-
ternity and Phi Delta Phi. He
received his law degree from the
Dickinson School of Law.

Eugene W. Heatwole ’38,
Wilmington, Del., businessman,
died Dec. 11, 1992. Heatwole
received a B.S. in commerce from
W&L and was Beta Gamma Sigma
and a member of Delta Upsilon fra-
ternity. After retiring as a cost ana-
lyst for Du Pont in 1972, he and
wife Phillis opened Heatwole’s, a
gift and furniture store, the proceeds
of which benefitted Christian mis-
sionaries.

Robert E. Meeks °38,

former director of the Attleboro,
Mass., YMCA, died Nov. 23, 1992.
Meeks left W&L in 1936. During
World War II, he served in the
Seabees and the Marine Corps.

William M. Rogers Jr. ’38,
retired buyer for the American
‘Tobacco Co., died June 8, 1992, in
Petersburg, Va. He received a B.A.
in history from W&L, and was a
member of Phi Kappa Sigma frater-
nity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma
Society, as well as captain of the
football team. Rogers served five
years in the Corps of Engineers dur-
ing World War II, reaching the rank
of lieutenant colonel. He returned
after the war to the American
‘Tobacco Co., where he worked until
his retirement in 1979.

Raymond E. Craft ’39,

retired postal employee, died Sept.
29, 1992, in Clifton Forge, Va. While
at W&L, he was a member of Delta
Tau Delta fraternity and the foot-
ball team. In World War II, he
served with the Flying ‘Tigers in
China, India, and Burma. He was an
elder emeritus for the First
Christian Church Disciples of Christ
and a member of the Veterans of
Foreign Wars Post 1033, the
Disabled American Veterans, the
American Legion, and the Clifton
Forge Elks Lodge.

Sion A. “Gus” Faulk ’40,
retired Chevrolet dealer, died Jan. 2,
1993, in Titusville, Fla. While at
W&L, Faulk was a member of
Delta Upsilon fraternity, the debate
team, and the fencing club and
received a B.A. in chemistry.
Following his graduation, Faulk
worked for the Mexican Petroleum
Refinery in Baltimore until he
became a Marine fighter pilot and
landing signal officer in 1942. Five
years later, he opened Gus Faulk
Chevrolet, where he worked until
his retirement in 1977. Faulk served
on the Titusville City Council, the
Brevard County Commission, the
Canaveral Port Authority
Commission, and as a volunteer for
the National Wildlife Refuge on
Merritt Island.

Robert A. Fuller ’40,

retired director of press information
for CBS, died Sept. 16, 1992, in
‘Tappan, N.Y. A journalism major at
W&L, Fuller was a member of the
tennis team, Southern Collegians,
and Phi Gamma Delta fraternity.
Following three years in the Army
Air Force during World War II,
Fuller worked for PM, a New York
newspaper. He joined CBS in 1949,
and stayed at the network until his
retirement in 1980. He was active
on the board of the Business
Council for the United Nations and
enjoyed sailing and tennis.

Col. Stanley P. McGee Jr. °41,
retired U.S. Air Force pilot, died
Dec. 8, 1992, in Louisville, Ky. A
member of Alpha Tau Omega fra-
ternity, he left W&L in 1938.
McGee’s military career spanned
three major conflicts: World War II,
Korea, and Vietnam. He was deco-
rated with the British Flying Cross
with four clusters, the Bronze Star
and Air Medal with four clusters,
and the Vietnam Service Medal.
Prior to his retirement in 1989,
McGee was secretary to the board of
the Regional Airport Authority at
Standiford Field and assistant to the
general manager.

John J. Speight Jr. °41,

former navigational scientist for the
Defense Mapping Agency in
Washington, D.C., died Oct. 31,
1992, in Dothan, Ala. He left W&L
in 1938 but was a member of Kappa
Sigma fraternity. Speight was active
in the American Legion, Phi Delta
Kappa, the Salvation Army, and the
‘Toastmasters Club.

Peter D. DeBoer °49,

retired technical buyer for Du Pont,
died Aug. 19, 1992, in Waynesboro,
Va. DeBoer served in the Navy dur-
ing World War II and was a member
of Kappa Alpha fraternity at W&L.
After graduating with a B.S. in com-
merce, he worked for WAYB radio
in Waynesboro and Driver Auto
Sales. He then joined Du Pont,

54

where he worked in their
Waynesboro, Richmond, and Iran
plants before retiring in 1983. A
member of First Baptist Church in
Waynesboro, DeBoer served as trea-
surer of Waynesboro Community
Hospital and was president of the
Waynesboro Kiwanis Club at the
time of his death.

Albert S. Kyle Ill °49,

former vice president for marketing
with the Plains Cotton Cooperative
Association, died Jan. 7, 1992, in
Lubbock, Texas. He received a B.S.
in commerce from W&L and was a
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fra-
ternity and Phi Beta Kappa.

Joseph N. Moffatt ’50,

veteran journalist and public rela-
tions specialist, died Nov. 14, 1992,
in Lexington, Va. Moffatt served in
the Air Force during World War II
and graduated from W&L with a
B.A. in journalism. He worked as a
newsman on the Staunton News-
Leader and the Roanoke Times before
joining Roanoke’s WSLS in 1952.
The first TV editorialist in Virginia,
he won the Douglas Southall
Freeman award for TV editorials in
1961. Moffatt joined Reynolds
Metals in 1965 as public relations
manager for the company’s con-
sumer and packaging division in
Richmond and eventually moved to
Portland, Ore, where he headed
Reynolds’ northwest P.R. effort for
16 years. He retired from Reynolds
in 1987 and returned to Lexington
in 1989. In 1990, he joined the pub-
lic information staff at Virginia
Military Institute.

Edward B. Tenney ’50,
Wayneboro, Ga., businessman, died
Dec. 7, 1992, in Augusta, Ga. A
World War II veteran, Tenney
received a B.S. in commerce at
W&L and was a member of Phi
Delta Theta fraternity. He later
received his MBA from the Harvard
Business School. Tenney was for-
mer chief magistrate of Burke
County, Ga., and owner of Delta
Accounting. He was also vice presi-
dent of Hohenberg Cotton Firm and
controller of CleoWrap Corp. of
Memphis, Tenn., as well as presi-
dent of the Gift Wrap Association of
America.

Richard W. Salmons °51,
retired president of Salmons
Dredging Co., died Dec. 8, 1992, in
Charleston, S.C. At W&L, Salmons
was a member of Beta Theta Pi fra-
ternity. After a stint in the U.S.
Marines where he reached the rank
of captain, the Korean War veteran
returned home to Charleston, where
he joined the family business.
Under his leadership, the Salmons
Dredging Co. was involved in many
construction projects in the S.C.
Lowcountry. Salmons was on the
board of First National Bank of

South Carolina (later South Carolina
National Bank) from 1961 until his
death. He was also chairman of the
Charleston Orphan House, presi-
dent of the St. Cecilia Society, and
active in numerous historic societies.
He was a vestry member and former
senior warden of St. Michael’s
Episcopal Church.

W. Bruce Swain ’51,

former deputy director of employee
relations for Martin-Marietta Corp.,
died Jan. 26, 1993, in Bethesda, Md.
A resident of Memphis, Tenn.,
Swain was also affiliated with Allen,
Sossaman & Thompson, a Memphis
law firm. He received a B.A. from
W&L and was a member of Kappa
Sigma fraternity. He later received a
law degree from Memphis State
University and practiced law in
Memphis from 1971 to 1979. An
expert in labor law, Swain was
awarded Martin-Marietta’s Jefferson
Cup for excellence in 1983.

Dr. Louis R. Putnam ’52,
pulmonary medicine and allergies
specialist, died Dec. 30, 1992, in
Wyoming, Ohio. A member of Beta
Theta Pi fraternity at W&L, he
earned his medical degree from
Columbia University. Putnam then
worked as an intern at the
University of Cincinnati Hospital. In
1958, he went to Korea to serve as
an Army captain and physician to
Syngman Rhee, president of the
Republic of Korea. After returning
to Cincinnati in 1960, he became an
associate professor of internal medi-
cine at the University of Cincinnati,
and left in 1968 to join a private
practice in northern Kentucky.

Harman A. Turner ’60L,
attorney, died July 31, 1992, in
Clarksville, Va.

J. Michael Freeman ’69,

died in May 1991. After graduating
from W&L, Freeman received his
MFA in criminology from the
Indiana University of Pennsylvania.

Douglas A. Byrd ’79,

former portfolio manager for
Wachovia Capital Management,
died Nov. 17, 1992, in Atlanta.
While at W&L, Byrd was a member
of Sigma Chi fraternity, Omicron
Delta Kappa, and Phi Beta Kappa,
and graduated summa cum laude with
a B.S. in commerce. Byrd graduated
from Harvard Business School in
1983.

Appreciation

Leslie Cheek Jr.,

guiding force behind the Virginia
Museum of Fine Arts for two
decades and a longtime friend of the
University, died Dec. 6, 1992, in

 

Leslie Cheek Jr.: 1908-1992

Richmond. He was 84. In 1977
Cheek and his wife, the former
Mary ‘Tyler Freeman, gave Skylark,
their 365-acre mountaintop estate
and Christmas tree farm in Nelson
County, Va., to Washington and Lee
in honor of Mrs. Cheek’s father, the
late Dr. Douglas Southall Freeman,
the longtime editor of the Richmond
News Leader who won the Pulitzer
Prize for his biographies of Robert
E. Lee (in 1935) and George
Washington (in 1958). A native of
Nashville, ‘Tenn., Cheek graduated
summa cum laude from Harvard
University in 1931 and later earned
a professional degree in architecture
from Yale University. Cheek was
director of the Virginia Museum of
Fine Arts from 1948 until his retire-
ment in 1969, the year he and Mrs.
Cheek began construction of
Skylark. Cheek himself designed
the village, which was hailed by
then-President Robert E.R. Huntley
as “a place of incomparable beauty”
along the Blue Ridge Parkway.

Frank G. Young ’66,

honored benefactor and member of
the Board of ‘Trustees from 1983 to
1988, died Jan. 24, 1993, in Fort
Worth, Texas. Young, former vice
president and secretary of the
Marshall R. Young Oil Corp.,
received a B.S. in commerce in 1966
and a B.A. in geology in 1967,
becoming the first student in W&L
history to earn two undergraduate
degrees in unrelated academic areas.
Young was a member of Kappa
Sigma fraternity, Beta Gamma
Sigma, and Phi Delta Phi. He
earned a J.D. from the University of
‘Texas in 1969 and an LL.M. from
Southern Methodist University in
1970.

 

 

 

 

 

BERMUDA BOWL

 

SRS Re te BS

GREAT SCHOOLS. GREAT COMPETITION. GREAT PRICE.
You are cordially invited to attend the

First Annual Bermuda Bowl Festival

 

featuring

 

Georgetown University and Washington and Lee University

The Bermuda Bowl Festival involves the participation of all members of the Georgetown
and Washington and Lee communities — students, parents, former gridders, alumni and
fans — in a friendly competition on a variety of playing fields on beautiful Bermuda.

Here are a few of the highlights of the First Annual Bermuda Bowl Festival:

The Georgetown University and Washington and Lee University football
teams will play in the first-ever football game to be played in Bermuda at
the National Sports Centre.

e Before tackling one another on the playing fields, the student-athletes will
tackle questions concerning college athletics today in a symposium format.

e Alumni and parents will participate in their own competitions between the
schools featuring golf and tennis tournaments.

e The activities of the festival will be friendly but competitive, with the
Bermuda Bowl Cup at stake for the school with the most points at the end
of the weekend.

Renew old friendships with teammates and classmates and make new ones, while vaca-
tioning at one of the most beautiful spots on earth — peaceful, pastel Bermuda.

The Bermuda Bowl Festival is November 18-21, 1993. ‘To get more information on the
great price, call 1-800-248-0319 or 1-800-243-2654 now to make your reservation or get
more info from the Washington and Lee Sports Information Office at (703) 463-8676.

 

 

 

 

 

 

E U N { O N Ss

May 6-8, 1993

HONORING THE UNDERGRADUATE AND LAW CLASSES
1943, 1948, 1953, 1958, 1963, 1968, 1973, 1978, 1983, 1988

CLUSTER REUNIONS WILL BE HELD FOR tHE UNDERGRADUATE AND LAW CLASSES
1957, 1958, 1959, AND 1977, 1978, 1979

‘THURSDAY EVENING, MAy 6
REUNION KEYNOTE ADDRESS

SPEAKER: Dr. Sidney M.B. Coulling III °46,

Professor of English Emeritus
Reception at the Alumni House

FRIDAY, May 7
REUNION SEMINARS

“WEL Today: A Student Panel Discussion” and

“Law School Admissions”

A Panel Discussion Sponsored by the Class of 1968

“China: The Tiger Purrs?”

“Education in America: Some Local Reflections”
COCKTAILS WITH THE FACULTY

BUFFET DINNER featuring the Johnny McClenon Big Band
ALUMNI CONCERT Southern Comfort and Saxeracs
REUNION DANCE featuring Spectrum

SATURDAY, MAy 8

ANNUAL JOINT MEETING of the Undergraduate and
Law Alumni Associations in Lee Chapel

PICNIC LUNCHEON

‘THE LEE-JACKSON LACROSSE CLASSIC

Generals vs. Keydets

“Sturm und Drang: A//iances and Tensions in the New Europe” CLASS BANQUETS AND PARTIES

 

 

 

Waukee. tS Hie OP nh tikeg

N Ag iirc BR eet B) oe

Armchairs and Rockers

 

 

BOSTON ARMCHAIR
ROCKER Black lacquer with
Black lacquer cherry arms

or or

Dark pine $220 Dark pine $235
‘The Boston Rocker requires some assembly.

Prices include freight charges.

 

 

‘The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed
in black lacquer or dark pine stain. The five-color crest of
the University is painted on the back of each chair or rocker.
‘They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture and are
welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas, birthdays,
graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales
of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John
Graham °14.

10 order: Include your name, address, your
telephone number, and a telephone number, if known, for
the delivery location. Indicate chair or rocker and color.
Make check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Please allow 6-

8 weeks for delivery.

MAIL YOUR ORDER TO:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

March 21,1993

oO
=
ae eS
oa. =>
EF ee Sa
eo
—
ie
2 ®
oa

 

 

 

 

ee
arc
ba a
i
fo. or)
QO. , a =,
=
mJ Y >
a
= a
a7,
= z
a a
A ~
~ <—
PP) . So NPA ohare
P) | =" Se g
= - + a
ao! - ry
ro —- -
~ einen
iS of
oY 9) i eel —
A alii
— al
4 3 =
Pa na Te
~ c
r) S|
li
Pete 8
an

