The Washington and Lee University Alumni Magazine
FALL 1995

 

 

— SL ewe aes OAM CUD? history, GY we feave fuuthe
LP?) Otb C}ORE V0aMMGE?) seed tile Ae. t7HO Ott je.
= and hearts, ~ we Honor tulle
ae Wt C70 ted Ee ie strived fer,
COP OC: VA UWE JCCK CHCOAMOPUCE 07? CL
bial WtLE fe. a WLE ee
Oar valuat Ot duly 10. Ottr-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

jeden Vz iia UIC ae Gore
V7 Wiz
( tytn tt, ad oe those TO. COPE. — /.. Wt

LEPC P 2 oy ILONG and wMuning COMMU Y thes
Vit t72 the fest pace Veshinglen vaseid ae the

Jy cial fe in slat tL 0s tedltz Y-

 

 

a

 

 

Volume 70, Number 3 Fall 1995

 

 

Work is underway on an anecdotal
and visual history of WEL for the
University’s 250th birthday—and we
want your stories and photos. Page 27.

 

\fter years of patience and dogged

determination, Harrison Kinney °47
details the life and times of legendary
humorist James Thurber. Page 28.

 

   
   
  

THIS WARES THE PLACE
ENERAL ROBERT E£. LEE
SAT DURING
DAILY CHAPEL WORSHIP

WHILE PRESIDENT OF
WASHINGTON COLLEGE

 

 

 

Who's that fellow sitting in General

Lee's pew? (Hint: He looks a little
different without his trademark hat

ind shades). The answer’s on Page 11.

On the cover: President John Elrod
? inauguration day, Oct. 21, 1995.
Photograph by W. Patrick Hinely ’73.

ATK

12 /Community Meeting.
The inauguration of John William Elrod as president is cause for

celebration—and reflection—on college and the human condition.

19 / Counting the Ways.
The Campaign for Washington and Lee is over—and $20 million over

goal. And the University is a better place for it in countless ways.

21 / Jerrauld Jones’ Greatest Gamble.
With the economic future of his native Norfolk, Va., on shaky ground,

the legislator is ready to wager his political future on riverboat gambling.

24 / Fat and Happy.
George Faison *78 has a message: “There’s no such thing as bad food.”

And he’s doing a good business in good food with luck, pluck, and duck.

28 / Thoroughly Thurber.
After 40 years of trying, Harrison Kinney °47 has published a 1,200-page

biography of humorist James Thurber on the centennial of his birth.

ART MENT

2 / From the Alumni President.
Looking toward 250—but first, a few thoughts on the year ahead.

3 / Letters.

Men of War on “Men of War;” and another man’s obligation to W&L.

6 / The Colonnade.
A weekend seminar educates alumni and prospective students on the
flipside of the admissions picture. Also: ODK co-founder Rupert

Latture 15, Washington and Lee’s oldest living alumnus, dies at 103.

30 /W&L Law.

Endowed professors Lyman Johnson and Uncas McThenia °58, *63L

prepare students for the ethical and intellectual dimensions of lawyering.

32 / The Generals’ Report.
Senior volleyball and lacrosse captain Cheryl ‘Taurassi has injured her

knee three times in four years, but she hasn’t got time for the pain.

36 / Alumni News.

Hundreds turn out for the University’s biggest Homecoming in half a

century; alumni internship programs connect students to the real world.

40 / Class Notes.
The Bacova story: How Ben Johns °79 and partner Patrick Haynes went

from giving 5,000 mailboxes away to building a $40 million business.

56 / Last Word.

An all-star lineup, including Shoe/ess Joe author W.P. Kinsella,

headlines an Alumni College on “Baseball and the American Culture.”

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

A. Stevens Miles Jr. 51, Rector
John W. Elrod, President

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC.
OFFICERS

E. Neal Cory Il ‘77

President (Louisville, Ky.)

Hatton C.V. Smith ‘73

Vice President (Birmingham, Ala.)

James D. Farrar Jr. ‘74

Secretary and Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

Robert W.H. Mish Ill ‘76

Associate Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

DIRECTORS

Michael D. Armstrong °77 (Adianta, Ga.)

R.K. Barton III °63 (Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.)
Walter S. Blake °72 (Dallas, Texas)

T. Talbott Bond °51 (Baltimore, Md.)

Matthew J. Calvert ’75, °79L (Richmond, Va.)
Ben S. Gambill Jr. 67 (Nashville, Tenn.)
William E. Garrison III °76 (Richmond, Va.)

B. Dallas Hagewood 90 (Atlanta, Ga.)

E. Phifer Helms °74 (Charlotte, N.C.)

H. Drake Leddy °71 (San Antonio, Texas)

L. Richards McMillan II °69 (New Orleans, La.)
Alexa A. Salzman °89 (San Francisco, Calif.)
Jackson R. Sharman III °83 (Washington, D.C.)
Martin E. Stein Jr. 74 (Jacksonville, Fla.)

R. Alan Tomlin ’69 (Houston, Texas)

James M. Turner Jr. 67, °71L (Roanoke, Va.)
Tinkham Veale III °69 (Devon, Pa.)

Donald W. Weir Jr. °72 (Shreveport, La.)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
OFFICERS

David D. Redmond ‘66, ‘69L
President (Richmond, Va.)
Robert M. Couch 78, ‘82L

Vice President (Birmingham, Ala.)

LAW COUNCIL

David L. Baird Jr. °71L (Dallas, Texas)

Charles M. Berger '68L (Charlotte, N.C.)

Alfred J.T. Byrne ’65, *68L (Washington, D.C.)
James M. Costan °74L (Washington, D.C.)
Richard DeFronzo ’70L (Calabasas, Calif.)
William R. Goodell ’80L (Atlanta, Ga.)

Robert J. Grey Jr. °76L (Richmond, Va.)
Theodore D. Grosser ’77L (Cincinnati, Ohio)
Elizabeth Toni Guarino ’77L (Washington, D.C.)
The Hon. William B. Hill Jr. °74, °77L (Acianta, Ga.)
Carol L. Hoshall ’83L (Alexandria, Va.)

Heather A. King ’88L (Clemmons, N.C.)

John D. Klinedinst ’71, ’78L (San Diego, Calif.)
Tabor R. Novak Jr. ’66, °69L (Montgomery, Ala.)
The Hon. W. Ray Price '78L (Jefferson City, Mo.)
Laurie A. Rachford ’84L (Houston, Texas)

B. Cary Tolley I] °78L (Darien, Conn.)

Patricia A. Van Allan ’80L (Houston, Texas)
Wilson F. Vellines Jr. °68, °73L (Staunton, Va.)
Hugh V. White Jr. °61L (Richmond, Va.)

John A. Wolf ’69, ’°72L (Baltimore, Md.)

 

From the Alumni President

The Ties That Bind

 

A new year is underway in Lexington. President Elrod has been formally inaug
rated and 434 freshmen are in the full swing of academic, athletic, and social actj
ties. This is a very special freshman class in that they are the class of 1999—the 25(¢
anniversary of Washington and Lee.

The history of these nearly 250 years is what make
Washington and Lee the special place it is, and it is
alumni who have built these rich traditions. Alumni sur
port of W&L has been phenomenal, as evidenced by th
success of the recently completed capital campaign (pag
19). That five-year project exceeded its $127 million ge
by some $20 million. That, more than anything, is a tri
ute to what this University means to its alumni.

Through our 82 alumni chapters spread througho
the country, we can both maintain and strengthen 0
relationships to the University and our fellow alum
The work of the Alumni Association is specifical
designed to strengthen those ties, and the Alumni Bos
has identified four specific goals to devote our attention to in the coming year.

While many chapters across the country are extremely active and supportive ¢
their alumni, there are others which need additional attention in terms of struc
and leadership. We have identified several of these chapters in hopes of reinvigors
ing leadership and participation in the coming year. Recent efforts along these li
have been extremely successful in both Birmingham and Charlotte.

While Annual Fund participation has been increasing steadily in recent years, \
are still below many of our peer institutions. Continuing our efforts to increase
participation rate, we are supplementing our class agent system with selected loc
chapter phonathons. For the past two years, both Charlotte and Louisville hav
achieved better than 70 percent participation using this method. This year we W
include Atlanta, Birmingham, and Jacksonville in hopes of duplicating this success.

Your Alumni Board continues to be very active in its discussions and involvem
with student issues. Through our student life committee, we continue to monitor af
discuss issues of importance in daily campus life with administration, students, af
the Board of ‘Trustees.

Lastly, a new area of emphasis by the Alumni Board this year is in conjunctic
with the Office of Career Development and Placement. Through the Alumni Caree
Assistance Program (page 39), numerous internships for rising juniors and seniors 4
well as recent graduates of W&L have been made available through generous alum
If you’re looking to hire someone in your business, we can think of no higher calibe
of individual than one coming from Washington and Lee. Persons interested in hee
ing more about this should contact CD&P director Beverly Lorig at W&L.

It is through efforts such as these that the alumni of Washington and Lee are ab
to help maintain the traditions and greatness of our a/ma mater. Don't hesitate to Cor
tact the leadership of your local chapter or alumni working with the University to kk
your views on any of these matters be known. It is because of you that this Universit
is as great as it is, and it will be because of you that Washington and Lee will flouri
for the next 250 years and beyond.

 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  

E. Neal Cory II ’77
President, W@L Alumni Assoctation

—_—

Letters

Model Soldier

When the summer issue of the
Alumni Magazine arrived, | scanned the
table of contents and turned quickly to
“Men of War” was all about.

see what
ise to see the first few

Imagine my surpr
paragraphs and picture featuring my
beloved brother, Jack, as being typical
of the 136 W&L men who were killed
in the service during World War II.

Jack was an outstanding person, a
verv nice human being, and he loved
and appreciated W&L very much. It
was very difficult after the war was over
to accept his loss. When our older broth-
er and I returned from the service, it was
verv hard to talk with some of the men
who had been with him and had been
captured at the time of his death. It was
equally difficult to meet with his lovely
girlfriend, Louise Bell from Berryville,
Va., who had graduated from what was
then Farmville State Teachers College.

It was due to Jack’s influence and
experiences at W&L that I applied to
enter W&L, and his record there was, I
am sure, the reason I was accepted.
Fortunately, | also graduated.

Thank you again for an outstanding
article on the W&L men who saw their
duty and accepted that responsibility
without hesitation. It was a privilege and
an honor to be associated with them and
the other veterans who returned to or
entered W&L in the fall of 1946.

Francis A. (Buddy) Hare ’50
Richmond

Lost at Sea

It was with much sadness that I read
the list of old friends killed in World
War II and looked at the young faces of
some of them. Think of the wonderful
futures lost. the outstanding families
that could have been, the talents and
ualities of these great youths which
Could have enriched our nation genera-

 “<’

tion after generation. (I knew many
more of the younger students than did
most of the Class of 1939 because I had
the rare privilege of repeating freshman
algebra year after year after year.)

On page 26, Shimler Boyce °41 is
called the first casualty of WWII among
the alumni. He died in April 1942. I do
not wish to diminish the tragic loss of
Lt. Boyce, but, the war began on Sept.
1, 1939. A day or two later, a German
sub sank the westward-bound British
liner in the Atlantic. Among those lost at
sea was Robert Harris °39, a passenger.
This would make Bob the first W&L
casualty, whether he was a civilian or
not, long before April 1942. (Also, proba-
bly, one of the very first U.S. war casual-
ties.) He and a classmate had spent the
summer touring Europe. Bob’s compan-
ion, whose name I do not recall, last saw
him sitting and reading in a deck chair.

Apologies for an old-fashioned hand-
written letter, for gosh sakes! We have
moose, black flies, and lobster in these
woodsy parts, but no E-mail, faxes, or
typewriters.

Rodney L. Odell °39

Acton, Maine

Father Knows Best

On page 37 of the summer A/umni
Magazine is a triptych of photographs of
parents and their small children (“The
Young, the Restless, and the Just Plain
Hungry”). Only the people in two of the
pictures are identified; those in the
photo furthest to the left are not. I can
solve this mystery.

The little girl is my daughter, Lauren
Elizabeth Rittenburg, Class of 2012, of
Simi Valley, Calif. The handsome gen-
tleman holding her is my friend and
classmate, Richard D. Jones ’75 of
Glastonbury, Conn.

As to my absence from the picture, I
can only assume that either the photog-
rapher awaited someone more photo-
genic, or that he simply missed his
chance.

Thomas Rittenburg °75

Simi Valley, Calif.

Uncle Rob

Yet another piece of my once-present
past is gone with the death in June of
Rob Stewart. He seemed the highly
energetic uncle in 1958, and rapidly
enlisted me into the Glee Club. Our
concerts simply added to my baggage of
good music. Our tours were memorable
and often hilarious: work, performance,
play. Rob Stewart took all of it seriously
and whimsically.

Around campus, Rob seemed always
in motion, even during relaxed weekend
afternoons out at the house with his first
wife, Sue. His atonal composition, a bit
beyond the ken of this classical-roman-
tic music lover, seemed just the thing
when we met him in the late ’60s for a
performance of a new work. In recent
years, singing with the large University
of Maryland Chorus, I have often
thought of Rob, his energy, and, yes, his
uncritical niceness. Now, I think he’ll
enjoy the celestial chorus.

James N. Applebaum °62
Silver Spring, Md.

Out of Context

Upon receiving the summer issue of
the A/umni Magazine, | reclined in a
comfortable chair and read it from
beginning to end. As I proceeded
through “The Williams School,” “Wolfe
in Progress,” and many other fine arti-
cles, I was coming to the conclusion that
of many fine issues, save one, this was
going to be an outstanding issue.

Then the Magazine surpassed itself
with the presentation of a superb seven-
page eulogy relating to the 136 W&L
men who gave their lives for their coun-
try in World War II. When culling
through the names of those listed, I
could clearly remember 12 of those fine
men and a couple of other maybes. My
SIX years of active service was nothing
by comparison.

When I contentedly put the Magazine
aside with a sense of pride, pleasure,
and fulfillment, I vaguely realized there
was something amiss, out of context,
inopportune. What was it?

Then it came to me. A similar situa-
tion occurred in the Magazine's pages
about three years ago. Whether purpose-
ly or innocently, you’ve allowed the fur-
therance of the gay agenda by publish-
ing a self-serving, pompous letter by a
gay alumnus. Such news is absolutely of
no earthly interest to 99 percent of
Washington and Lee alumni.

What’s worse, the letter suggests that
“they” are preparing to become a major
force in future W&L activities. Though
“they” would like to give the appear-
ance of W&L’s endorsement of their
aberrant lifestyle, that is not in fact pos-
sible because of W&L’s high standards
that have manfully withstood the test of
time.

I think the A/umni Magazine would be
well advised to adhere to the main-
stream activities of its alumni and avoid
furthering recondite agendas which
have no logical place in W&L’s past,
present, or future culture and history.

John Clark White °40L
Naples, Fla.

A Few Hundred Lives

I don’t believe I have ever before
written a real letter to my @/ma mater,
but the Summer 1995 issue, with fea-
tures about Tom Wolfe and Roger
Mudd, has combined with the cumulat-
ing years to lead me to say something
about my own obligation to W&L.

I came to Lexington almost 50 years
ago knowing no one and with virtually
no knowledge, even from hearsay, of its
character and tradition. I had seen it
once, however, while on a trip to
Williamsburg, and I had been smitten
by the beauty and friendliness of the
campus; sufficiently so, that, when |
applied for admission in that difficult
period immediately after World War I],
there was no other school that held any
competitive appeal. I sent in my appli-
cation more than a year early, and W&L
wrote back rejecting me because I had
not yet finished high school. We
straightened things out, and I showed
up in time for Freshman Camp in
September 1947.

It was all-male, of course; indeed,
that was a major reason I had chosen
W&L. I was scared of girls, and hoped
that four years of insulation would pro-
tect me until I was ready. I guess it
worked: I have been happily married for
42 years. Everyone at camp wore name
tags, and at the conclusion of the three
days, there was a contest to see who
could remember the most names. The
first evening we had a pickup softball
game, and as the light faded I, as catch-
er, caught a fast ball with my eye. It
turned purple and green, closing up and
swelling so splendidly that everyone
soon knew who I was. Moreover, in the
contest, I took second prize and won a
blanket. (First prize went to Dick
Taylor, who correctly identified 148 of
the 150 freshmen present. He later went
on to manage hotels in Las Vegas.)

Freshman Camp was followed by
Rush Week. I participated fully, though,
in retrospect, I don’t think I ever quite
understood what was going on. In any
case, to my surprise and chagrin, I was
not asked to pledge a fraternity. It both-
ered me, of course; enormously for a
time, as I wondered why I had been
rejected while so many others, with
vastly less to recommend them, had
been welcomed. I was more fully aware
of my shortcomings—social, intellectual,
and moral—than anyone else, but I did
not understand how so many others
seemed to know what an inferior crea-
ture I was. But it happened, and I
quickly concluded there was no purpose
to be served in brooding about it.

The beauty of Lexington and its
environs combined with the rigors of
academic requirements made it easy to
focus on the transient affairs of the
University calendar. There were football
games and Cy Young’s celebrated
exhortations to “Beat those damned
Wahoos.” There were unnerving
encounters with Southern Sem, made
easier by the recognition that, lacking a
car, there was nothing much one could
do to advance one’s fantasies. ‘The cur-
riculum was ordinary as, in that first
year, was most of the instruction, but
everything was new, and comparisons
made with erstwhile peers at holiday
times put W&L right up among the bet-

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

ter places of the era.

And it soon got better. For me, as ¢
so many others of that time, the diffe
ence was James G. Leyburn. He h
come from Yale in 1947, and the pn
year I, along with as many as could fir
the Newcomb Hall classroom, took }
course in Social Anthropology. Tod
almost 50 years later, I still remem}
sitting in Doc’s Corner Store, telling
friend Myles Johnson, who had the
fortune not to be in the class, of ¢
ideas we were encountering; wk
Margaret Mead, Ralph Linton, Ry
Benedict, and other pioneers h
learned, and what it might mean for ¢
received notions of how to behave ¢
what to believe. Doc’s beer probat
helped us grasp the subtleties, b
shall never experience a more exciti
head time.

And it grew, that excitement. Mu
of it was intellectual, I guess. There
some fine teaching from men who cz
whether you, as a unique individual s
dent, enlarged your understanding a
expanded your horizons. ‘There was ¢
some wretched teaching from men y
knew little and cared less. And so
was in-between, from ordinary peop
who tried and cared but were not
talented. In the four decades of my ¢
academic career, I have known ma
others of each category, and there is ¢
dimension on which the W&L faculty
my day compares extremely well
the academics I have known sin¢
They really were concerned about t
condition of each individual student.

My testimony is inevitably persor
but any assessment of personal attenti
must be. In the fall of my senior yea,
was injured in a car accident and cé
fined to Stonewall Jackson Memorial ft
six weeks. In those days the hospit
occupied what had once been the gene
al’s home, and its facilities were eleme
tary verging on primitive, but I had li
need of sophisticated treatment, SO
sufficed. Its greatest shortcoming %
dietary: We didn’t get enough to ©
Not to worry. People brought me snae
Dean Frank Gilliam brought some of I
wife’s neat’s foot jelly to build me
And on Christmas Day, Dr. Edwa
Myers arrived bearing a large silver P

—

rer containing a full Christmas dinner.
He said the platter and cover had been a
wedding present, and he had never
before had much occasion to use It.
When, at last, I had recovered suffi-
ciently to return to school everyone
went the second mile to accommodate
my needs so I could graduate on time.

in the 40-some years I have spent as
a college teacher, I have measured
mvself against the standard of W&L,
aad it has been a most exacting test that
| have only sometimes been able to
approximate. To teach as well as Ley-
burn and Myers; to be as caring as
Latture and Ragan; to convey the joy of
academe as effectively as Turner and
Bean—those were models that anyone
would be proud to match.

But W&L, in my day, had another
standard of excellence as well—its stu-
dents. It was, of course, a fairly small
student body, not exceptionally selec-
tive, but pretty good in quality with a
rich mixture of World War II veterans
leavening the innocence of the young.
Since we all were expected to speak to
one another, we gradually got acquaint-
ed, more or less, with nearly everyone.
And they were vintage years! Some
became distinguished as journalists like
Charley McDowell and Roger Mudd,
writers like ‘om Wolfe, college execu-
tives like Ed Bassett and John Maguire,
scholars like Dave Bien, and even ath-
letes like Walt Michaels and artists like
Cy Twombly. There were incipient
jurists and civic leaders and entrepre-
neurs. Most notable, perhaps, were the
future political leaders like John
Warner, Bill Brock, Bennett Johnson,
and Jack Marsh. Pat Robertson fits in
there somewhere.

For years now my friends have been
rolling their eyes toward the ceiling
When, once again, | say about someone
whose name has been in the news, “Yes,
I went to school with him.” What was
the special chemistry that produced
such a high proportion of distinguished
“areers from the W&L classes of the
‘Mmediate post-war generation? It
ment the food, God knows. In the
— - stank of onion grass, and
as. _ ac - be well done to hide

able quality. It would be a

bold hypothesis indeed to credit the
beano with the subsequent accomplish-
ments of its drinkers. With rare excep-
tion the films we so devotedly attended
at the State Theater were, as we watch
them today on AMC, pretty bad.

Maybe it was just luck, the happen-
stance of a few hundred lives coming
into contact with one another in a blend-
ing that proved to be unusually rich.
Perhaps it wasn’t really so special after
all but only seems so, as those protean
years so often do to the romantically
inclined. Looking back across the great
divides of time is an exercise that
encourages us to choose a happy per-
spective. But I believe that the W&L of
my time was special, a bit exceptional, a
cut above the ordinary. Not only was
that four-year period there a wonderful
experience, the preparation for the years
to come was exceptional. It made a dif-
ference. I hope, most profoundly, that
for the W&L generations of today it still
does.

Robert H. Salisbury ’51
St. Louis

Salisbury is Souers professor of Ameri-
can government at Washington University.

Mistaken IDs

I noticed several errors in the A/umni
Magazine. Earl Vickers ’45, who was pic-
tured holding a bowl won by his class, is
from Montgomery, W.Va., not Alabama.
And in the article “Men of War,” Sims
Trueheart °41 and Brooks Young °41 are
identified as being from St. Petersburg,
Va. That Virginia city is wor saintly.

Albert D. Darby Jr. °43
Martinsburg, W.Va.

The Washington and Lee University
Alumni Magazine we/comes letters. Address
correspondence to: University Editor, Wash-
ington and Lee, Publications Office, Lexington,
VA 24450. Letters may also be faxed to
(540) 463-8024. All letters should include the
author’s name, address, and daytime phone
number. Letters selected for publication may
be edited for length, content, and style.

VOLUME 70, NUMBER 3
FALL 1995

Brian D. Shaw, Executive Editor

Dick Anderson, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

W. Patrick Hinely ‘73, Photographer
Evan Atkins, Contributing Editor
William Cocke 82, Contributing Editor
Brian Logue, Sports Editor

Justin King ‘95, Class Notes Editor
Mary Woodson, Associate Designer
The Linthicum Group, Design

COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY BOARD

John Cleghorn °84

David M. Clinger °55
William H. Fishback Jr. °56
Farris P. Hotchkiss °58
Thomas V. Litzenburg °57
David Lotts ’74

Andrew H. McCutcheon °48
Robert Mottley *64
Elizabeth Obenshain
Howard Packett °58

Frank A. Parsons ’54

Sarah K. Wiant °78L
Robert Wittpenn ’82

Published quarterly by Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington
and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA
24450. Third-class postage paid at
Lynchburg, VA 24502. Signed articles
reflect the views of their authors and not
necessarily those of the editorial board or
the University.

WASHINGTON AND LEE DIRECTORY

Switchboard (540) 463-8400
Publications Office (540) 463-8956
Alumni Office (540) 463-8464
Development Office (540) 463-8410
News Office (540) 463-8460

Sports Info. Office (540) 463-8676
W&L Sports Hotline (540) 463-8998

WASHINGTON AND LEE ONLINE/E-MAIL

W&L Home Page http://www.wlu.edu
Alumni Magazine randerson@wlu.edu
Alumni Office alumni@wlu.edu

The Colonnade

 

 

Free advice: William M. Hartog (right),

dean of admissions and financial aid at

Washington and Lee, goes over the finer
points of the selection process as prospe CNV
applicant Adair Thompson and her father,
Philip C. Thompson 68, °71L, look on.

 

 

Now, Getting In is Half the Fun

 

Alumni Admissions Program Addresses Application Anxietie.

Admissions dean William M. Hartog is used to being bombarded by alumnirj
comes with the territory. So when he invited Washington and Lee alumni to a week
end admissions seminar limited to 100 families, and 125 families wanted to come, fy
faced an all-too-familiar problem: how to keep everybody happy. But then he dix
something he can’t do with the freshman class—he increased the number of space
and no alumni were turned away,

“Finding Your Way Through ¢
College Admissions Maze,” held
the W&L campus June 16-18, yw.
designed, in Hartog’s words, *
demystify the admissions proces
to bring people into the doors of t
admissions office.” ‘The seminar wa.
open to any child or grandchild of,
W&L alumnus who was enterin
the 11th or 12th grade, and, thank
to the generosity of an anonymo
donor, the only cost to participant
was travel and lodging. (In additie
to the seminar, to be held every
years, the endowment gift will al
provide financial aid and assistane
for students with disabilities.)

While applicants and their parent
learned how to go about choosin
the right college, they got a glimps

 

of how admissions offices go abo
the selection process—and discovered that they are not the only ones having to des
with anxiety. While high school seniors anxiously await their “chick” or “thine
envelopes, college admissions personnel are sweating bullets until their freshme
class is filled to expectations. The competition for the top students is such the
Washington and Lee spent more than $1 million last year in recruiting efforts alone.

For the three-day seminar, Hartog recruited some admissions professionals from
around the country, including Jim Byer, headmaster of the Hun School in Princeton,
N.J.; Larry Eckel, college guidance director at Kinkaid School in Houston; Spi
Gummere, a 26-year veteran of admissions from Lake Forest (IIl.) College; De
Walls. dean of admissions at Emory University in Atlanta; and author Richard Mol
(Playing the Private College Admissions Game, The Public [vtes), w ho livened up Fridaj
night’s festivities with a musical admissions program in the L enfest Center.

When the music stopped, Byer reviewed the essential ingredients of the applicant
package, including transcripts, class rank, and extracurricular activities. His advice @
high school students? “Take the best course load you can. ” And it’s not just goo
SAT or ACT scores that colleges are looking for, added Eckel. Job experiences, trays
opportunities, academic programs, and volunteer work are all considered when admis

  
  
  
 
  
 
 

sions committees review application files.
Selecting a college and financing an education were covered in smaller groups ©
Saturday, but the best exercise of the weekend may have been on Sunday morning
when small groups of parents, students, and counselors formed mock admissions CO
mittees to review actual applicant files. All six were qualified, admittable student
only two could be offered admission. It showed participants the other side of the col
Another thing participants discovered was that admissions folks are people too.

r the

used to think that college admissions people had little regard for anything othe

 

ill ais SC s with a pack of brains
filling thet! school |

r mindless, but good, sports players,
O '

| Fendrich, a high school

writes Michae
port News, Va. (and son

junior from New
of Alan Fendrich 74).

“Ir was nice to find out that admis-
ons people can smile, or even laugh,

SI ‘
“without hell freezing over or

he adds, ;
fire shooting down from the sky.
The weekend inspired Chris Brown
of Richmond (son of T. Lee Brown Jr.
‘741,) to become more active and to
work harder in his last two years of high
school. “I love W&L,” he writes, “and I
can assure you | will apply.” Other
lessons from the seminar included:

The more things change... “As a prod-

uct of the Frank Gilliam era, I was

i]
'

amazed at the complexity of the admis-

sions process and probably learned more

Ps

 

than anyone,” writes Thomas T. Donald

 

62 of Birmingham, who attended with
his daughter, Grier, a high school senior. Thirteen new teachers joined the Washington and Lee undergraduate faculty this fall. Seated
_..the more they stay the same. “My (/-r); Cathleen G. Cuppett, assistant professor, romance languages; Mark C. McClure, assistant
father has been telling me how great professor, mathematics; Suzanne Keen, assistant professor, English; Helen I’Anson, assistant
W&L is for years, and it is just as won- professor, biology. Standing (1-r): James Fodor, assistant professor, religion; Kevin M. Moore,
assistant professor and men’s basketball and golf coach; Andrew I Cohen, assistant professor,

philosophy; and Theodore C. Delaney, assistant professor, history. Not shown are Alison Bel.

derful as he had described!” writes Sam
Evans, a high school junior from Hins-
dale, Ill. (and son of Ken Evans ’72). instructor, sociology and anthropology; Christopher A. Camuto, assistant professor, English;
“Having seen the campus, talked to pro- Paul D. Humke, assistant professor, mathematics; Neville Richardson, visiting professor, relt-

life, | am working hard so that I might
have the great experience my dad had.”

Be prepared. “\ found the presenta-
tions and information covered to be
exactly what Ed needed to be exposed
to,” writes Travis Bass ’78 of Burlington,
N.C., “as well as clearly defining what
bases parents must tag as college time
approaches.”

Reading is fundamental. Writes Ward
Davenport 97: “My parents also wanted
to thank you because they could finally
tell me ‘I told you so’ about how impor-
tant reading is.”

Father knows best. “My son [Carter, a
high school junior] heard everything
ve been y anting him to hear about
how to prepare himself for college, but
- Carries a hell of a lot more weight com-
mig from you guys,” writes Ted Vaden
-" of Chapel Hill. “Getting together
With these
having
time h

admissions experts was like
a chat with St. Peter before your
as Come.”

—By Evan Atkins

 

 

As the Good News Spreads, It is Harder to Get In

For this year’s freshman class of approximately 434 students, Washington and
Lee received the second highest number of applications in the history of the
University—3,446. Of that number, W&L accepted 1,074, or about 31 percent.
Of those, 434 enrolled, about 41 percent. The Class of 1999 includes 48 children
of alumni, and SATs of all enrolled students averaged 612 (Verbal) and 663
(Math). There are other impressive statistics.

What is it about W&L that attracts applicants from 49 states and 47 countries?
Part of it is the rankings. In this year’s U.S. News © World Report survey of
“America’s Best Colleges,” Washington and Lee ranked 15th for the second year
in a row among national liberal arts colleges, and No. 3 in selectivity. In a less sci-
entific survey of students conducted by the Princeton Review Student Access Guide to
the Best 309 Colleges, W&L rated No. 1 for academics.

“Those rankings are much more meaningful to prospective students and their
parents than they are to those of us within these walls,” says Hartog. “It is still
very important that we be included among the top schools.”

Washington and Lee continues to be ranked the Best Buy among national lib-
eral arts colleges and universities measured by U.S. News. “Historically, we have
been a well-managed institution,” says Hartog. “We remain about the only school
that does not draw on tuition revenues to support the financial aid budget.”

But rankings have a way of changing, and “we should neither brag, nor seem
content to be No. 15,” Hartog cautions. “We should just be proud to be there.”

 

 

Childress, New Elected
To Board of Trustees

The Washington and Lee Board of
‘Trustees inducted two new members at
its meeting in October.

J. Donald Childress °70 is a managing
partner in Childress Klein Properties
Inc., which he found-
ed in 1988 with a for-
mer associate at
‘Trammell Crow Co.
He is chairman of
the board of trustees
for the Lovett School
and a former chair-
man of the Midtown
Business Association
in Atlanta as well.
Childress chaired the Atlanta area effort
for the Campaign for Washington and
Lee in 1992, and he was also active at
W&L as a member of the Board of
Advisors to the Williams School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics. He
and his wife, Jill, have four children.

Mason T. New ’62 is managing part-
ner of Branch, Cabell and Co., a New
York Stock Exchange member firm
headquartered in Richmond. He is a
member of the board
of governors of the
National Association
of Securities Dealers,
former president of
the St. Catherine’s
School Foundation,
and chairman of the
Christchurch School
Mason New ’62 board of directors. A

past president of the
Alumni Association and member of the
Alumni Board, New chaired the Annual
Fund for the last two years. He and his
wife, Mary Watt, have three children:
Kreg Kurtz 86, John Mason °96, and
Mary Taylor °98.

 

Don Childress °70

 

Mock Con Nabs Newt

House majority leader Newt Gingrich
has another contract on his agenda. ‘The
bestselling author and presidential ques-
tion mark will be the keynote speaker at
Washington and Lee’s Mock Republican
Convention. The nationally recognized

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1996 W&L Open on Course for a Big June Weekend

Plans have been made for the return of the W&L Open to be held at both
Lexington and the Homestead during the weekend of June 28-30, 1996. The |
program will include a reception and cookout dinner at the Alumni House on
Friday, June 28. Golf at the Lexington Golf and Country Club will be available
that day. Rooms will be available in Gaines Residence Hall for Friday night.

Participants will depart for the Homestead early Saturday morning, June 29,
and will play the famed Cascades course, regarded by many as one of the finesg
mountain courses in the country. Designed by William Flynn and opened ip
1924. the course is rated as one of the top 100 in the world by Go/f magazine and
as one of the top 75 resort courses in the United States by Go/f Digest. Following

Saturday’s round, participants will enjoy a reception and dinner at the Cascades

 

clubhouse.

Sunday morning, June 30, will see a shotgun start on the Homestead course}
Designed by Donald Ross, the Homestead was built in 1892 as a six-hole

course, and was expanded to 18 holes in 1912. Its first tee is the nation’s oldest

tee in continuous use.

Mark your calendars now for what promises to be a great weekend of camas
raderie and golf in true W&L style. For more information, contact alumni diree-
tor Jim Farrar ’74 by phone at (540) 463-8464, by fax at (540) 463-8473, or by Ee

mail (jdfarrar@wlu.edu).

  
 
   
 
  
 

 

political event will open with a parade
winding down Main Street on March 1.

Pollster Lance Tarrance *62 met with
the state chairmen in October to discuss
possible scenarios developing out of the
early primaries and other issues that
could affect the nominating process,
including Ross Perot’s third party and
the multi-million-dollar candidacy of
multi-millionaire Stephen Forbes.

In other Mock Convention goings-
on, William Kristol, editor and publisher
of The Standard, Rupert Murdoch’s new
national weekly on policy and politics,
spoke on campus Nov. 14, thanks in
part to a $10,000 grant from the Ethics
and Excellence in Journalism Founda-
tion. The grant, which will cover most of
the media committee’s budget, also
enables the group to sponsor speakers
addressing politics and the media.

McCloud Appointed to
Civil Rights Committee

Associate dean of students Anece F.
McCloud has been appointed to a two-
year term on the Virginia Advisory
Committee of the U.S. Commission on
Civil Rights through January 1997.

McCloud received her B.S. from

Bennett College in Greensboro, N.C
and her M.A. from the University
Nebraska at Omaha. She is current
completing requirements for a Ph.D
sociology at SUNY in Binghamton, N
McCloud came to W&L in 1985.

   
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  

Hodges Awarded Fulbrigh
To Apply Ethics to India

Louis W. Hodges, Fletcher Ote
Thomas professor of Bible and direct
of Society and the Professions, W&
program in applied ethics, will sper
four months this winter as a Fulbrig
Lecturer to India. In addition to teael
ing two courses on the ethics of jou
ism, Hodges will be a consultant on cu
riculum revisions at the 89,000-stud
Osmania University in Hyberabad
India’s sixth-largest city—and play
major role in a symposium for jour
ism faculty from all over the countt
His travels will also take him to Bombs
New Delhi, Madras, and Calcutta.

The trip will allow Hodges to rene
the acquaintance of a former stude
John Dahlberg °75, who is now bure
chief of India for the Los Angeles Th
“Dahlberg has promised to meet me
the airport on an elephant,” he says-

—

Rupert Nielson Latture °15, the last
ne charter member of Omicron

surviV!
Delta Kappa the national leadership
e < < As
ciety, and former faculty member and
s( y,

;dministrator at Washington and Lee,

died Oct. 26 in High Point, N.C. He was
103 years old.

A native of Bristol, Tenn., Latture
came to W&L in 1911.
He earned his B.A. in
1915 and his M.A. the fol-
lowing year, and was elect-
ed to Phi Beta Kappa as
an undergraduate.

In 1914, Latture and a
classmate, J. Carl Fisher,
conceived the idea of a
campus leadership soci-
etv. Their vision led to
the founding of Omicron
Delta Kappa, which now
has chapters in more than
220 colleges and universi-
ties in the United States.
Latture, who designed
the key worn by chapter
members, was honored
by ODK with the estab-
1981 of
LLatture

lishment in

the Rubert N.
Outstanding Sophomore
Award, given annually to
the W&L

who best exemplifies the

sophomore

ideals of ODK. Latture
also received the Laurel
Crown Circle, the society’s
highest honor, in 1990,
After graduation from
W&L, Latture taught at
the Miller
Albemarle County, Va.,
before serving in World
War I from 1917 to 1919.

School in

While in France, he was
awarded the Croix de Guerre by the French
army. After the war, he served as princi-
Pal of the Central Academy in Stuart,
Va., for one \ ear.

In 1920, Latture returned to Wash-

ing . : . :
ston and Lee as assistant professor of
romance lan

faculty, he

inc] . p J s't .
uding chairman of the political sci-
“nce department

guages. As a member of the

held several positions,

and head of the fresh-
men Program.

Rupert Latture

When Latture retired from active
teaching in 1962, he was asked by then-
president Fred C. Cole to stay on as an
assistant to the president. He would
hold that position for 21 years, serving
Cole and later presidents Robert E.R.
Huntley and John D. Wilson. Upon his
second retirement in 1983, he turned his

 

attention to special research projects
associated with the University.

Latture also served for many years as
adviser to the Mock Convention at
Washington and Lee. Although he
missed the first convention in 1908, he
attended every one through 1984.

Throughout his years at Washington
and Lee, Latture became an unofficial
ambassador for the University. Many

times, he was the first person to greet

1892-1995

treville, Va., followed in his footsteps at

incoming freshmen and parents when
they came to matriculation in the fall.
He took great care to welcome new stu-
dents and to make them feel at home.

Latture performed a similar role in
his position as special assistant to the
president. Sitting in the president’s
outer office before a painting of Robert
EK. Lee—whom he
referred to as “my
contemporary’ —he
regaled visitors with
stories and anecdotes
from his many years of
service to W&L.

In 1980, Latture
received the honorary
Doctor of Laws degree.
The citation called
Latture a “mover” of
the University, “evok-
ing in us sentiments
of admiration, pride,
and great respect. Of
all the honorary de-
grees ever conferred
by Washington and
Lee University, none
has ever been award-
ed with the special
gratitude and affec-
tion that accompany
this proclamation.”
The Lynchburg chap-
ter honored Latture
with its Lynchburg
Citation in 1972.

Latture was mar-
ried for 51 years to the
former Roberta Fulton,
who died in 1968. Son
William E. Latture °49
of Greensboro, N.C,
and grandson Richard
G. Latture °81 of Cen-

Washington and Lee.

Latture was an elder in the Lexing-
ton Presbyterian Church and was Sun-
day school superintendent for many years.

A graveside service for Latture was
held at Stonewall Jackson Cemetery in
Lexington on Nov. 4. Memorial contri-
butions may be made to the ODK
Scholarship Fund at Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, VA 24450.

84

 

ee ee ee

 

 

And Now, a Lesson in Gatornomics

The Williams School at Washington and Lee is Dedicated with Flair, Humor—and Alligate

On the occasion of the dedication of
the Ernest Williams II School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics at Wash-
ington and Lee on Sept. 23, the °38er
Alligator and school namesake was char-
acteristically modest about his contribu-
tions to the University and the unprece-
dented nature of the occasion.

“For the first time, a school will be
named in honor of an alumnus,”
President John Elrod told an audience
that included members of the Williams
family, the Washington and Lee com-
munity, and nearly 70 of Williams’ class
agent peers in Lexington for their annu-
al gathering. “Who within the Washing-
ton and Lee family has worked longer,
harder, and more effectively than Ernie
Williams on behalf of the Annual Fund?
Who has done more to emphasize the

10

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 

great success of this University has been the
generosity of its alumni and friends, and

 

5

importance of class gifts? Who among us
has done these things with such flair and
a sense of humor, making memorable
alligators, airplanes, and skydivers on
reunion weekends?”

In addition to a professorship, now
occupied by Pamela H. Simpson, gifts
from Williams and his wife, Marjorie,
have endowed funds for library acquisi-
tions and scholarships. And now the
Williams Commerce School Endow-
ment will be used to promote the pro-
fessional development of faculty and
special study opportunities for students.

“The naming of the Williams School
and the creation of the Williams Endow-
ment mean that the social sciences and
business at Washington and Lee will
enter the 21st century with a renewed
sense of vigor,” said school dean Larry

Os

v

 

“One of the most important factors in the

among these benefactors, no one has been
more generous than Ernie and Manjorie
Williams,” said J. Alfred Broaddus "61,~
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of ©
Richmond. Citing Williams’ purchase of
property on Hilton Head Island, S.C., ih
‘50s and of Berkshire Hathaway stock in]
‘70s, Broaddus joked, “The audience kna
these things, Ernie, and consequently and
undoubtedly they would much rather have
you up here giving them business advicea
investment tips than some guy from the Fé

   
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

Peppers. “The Williams Endowme
will assist the faculty in keeping p
with professional developments in e¢
nomics, management, accounting, é
politics as well as greater opportunit
for students interested in leadersh
opportunities in business and govell
ment in the United States and abroad.

Keynote speaker for the dedicatit
was J. Alfred Broaddus Jr. ’61, preside
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Rie
mond. Broaddus “majored in polities
Peppers noted, “but he was intellec
ly seduced in his junior year by the pi
piper of economics,” professor emeri
John Gunn °45. Coincidentally, Bro
dus was awarded an honorary Docto
Laws degree from W&L in 1993
which time the University bestowed
honorary degree upon Ernie Williams

 

 

 

 

Indoor Tennis Partners

When Dick Duchossois *44 wanted to
honor outgoing president John Wilson
with a gift to the University, the owner
of Arlington International Racecourse in
Illinois dreamed big. The resulting gift
is an indoor tennis facility, to be con-
structed near the existing W&L Pavilion
and close to the Liberty Hall Ruins.

The gift “meets a long demonstrated
need in our athletic facilities,” says ath-
letic director Mike Walsh. “It will be a
tremendous boost to our intercollegiate
program and physical education classes
as well as for recreational use. We see
this as a first step in the expansion and
upgrading of our athletic facilities.”

Plans call for the Duchossois Tennis
Center to house four indoor courts,
Spectator seating, and a player’s lounge
and locker room area, with special
emphasis on providing the optimal play-
ing surface as well as quality lighting.
That’s Duchossois for you: “There’s no
such thing as second-best if you’re going
fo succeed,” he told The Chicago Tribune.

Knowing Your Toad

“Your Toad could be feminine. Males may
have female Toads and females may have
male Toads. It’s a ve Ty individual thing.”

| —From The Toad Within: How to
Contro]/ Eating Chotces. by counseling psy-
chologist James W. Worth. The Toad’s a
metaphor, he explains, “for making
things happen.” Works for us.

ee

 

 

 

King Richard Comes
Calling on the General

Richard Petty is a hero to count-
less NASCAR fans throughout the
South; Robert E. Lee is a hero to
the Charlotte-born racing legend. So
when the King came to Lexington
for the Rick Mast Golf Classic
Concert in September, Petty—like
thousands of other visitors each
year—wanted to pay his respects at
Lee Chapel. Mast arranged an after-
hours visit, Petty got a personal tour
from chapel director Capt. Robert
C. Peniston—and we got pictures.

 

 

 

Getting the Dirt on
Richard and Jodie

W&L anthropology professor
John McDaniel’s course in Field
Techniques in Archaeology, affec-
tionately known as “The Dig,” has
long been a spring term staple. But
now many of his students are dig-
ging a little deeper. Over the sum-
mer, 14 undergraduates and three
1995 grads picked up valuable field
experience working on archaecologi-
cal research teams for the U.S.
Forest Service and the Bureau of
Land Management at sites in
Virginia, Utah, and Wyoming.

In Virginia’s George Washington
National Forest, 10 students assisted
Forest Service archaeologist George
Tolley ’72 (a former student of
McDaniel’s) in examining, survey-
ing, and excavating sites pegged for
future disturbances such as timber
sales. Among the sites they worked
was Warwick Mansion (aéove), a Bath
County bed-and-breakfast used in
the 1993 movie Sommersby.

The other seven went to four dif-
ferent areas out west under the aus-
pices of the Leyburn Scholars
Program in Anthropology, estab-
lished in 1981. They worked with

 

 

BLM and USFS archaeologists in
everything from transit mapping in
the west desert of Utah, to restora-
tion work on historic cabins in
Wyoming’s Bridger-Teton National
Forest, to research into the architec-
tural aspects of an Anasazi “Great
House” in southeastern Utah.

“What is particularly gratifying
about having so many students
invited to work in so many areas, is
that it speaks to the recognition that
Washington and Lee’s program is
beginning to have.” McDaniel says.
“There is no other ‘teaching col-
lege’ that comes close to what we
are doing with undergraduate
research in archaeology.”

The students concur: “There is a
pride that comes,” says one, “from
picking out a projectile point from
heaps of detritus.” And if you’re not
sure what that means, you can dig
out your thesaurus.

 

11

 

 

12

 

Lf (/
PD
‘THE INAUGURATION OF JOHN WILLIAM ELROD
Is CAUSE FOR CELEBRATION—AND REFLECTION—
ON COLLEGE AND THE HUMAN CONDITION

) :
; Dy Sith . A plers0r

 

 

  

Sharing a rernernbered and colblvaled
history holds ws logelher We do well lo

rover er colelriale, atl fitiss Cte CO.

    
    

BUCCOOM LY Ger altores the founding

 
 

“il SUMMING CUCU Ctrl SUL3OVIS te

 
 

OU UIMUMEME fea. Yo Lo well Co
rorrernter tial this oll Lit tlitltOte ts
older Chin lhe COUMMY tlselp. leet

older Chan the Declaration of
Ladipen@ence, are tls long history

forts lhe tnstilulion tt ts lodiy.

 
   
     
      

_/ he Colonnade bustles with all the activity typical of an early-
autumn Saturday. A pair of Dayglo-colored bicycles stand parked
against a tree in front of Tucker Hall. A student jogger passes in the
distance. A camera-toting tourist from Texas ambles onto the scene,
searching for Lee Chapel and finding a crowd well in excess of 1,000.
The bells ring out at five minutes before the hour (an occurrence
drily noted by Davidson president John Kuykendall in an unscripted
moment). The threat of rain hangs overhead, the wind whips in all
directions, and the skies put on a show of clouds—here one minute,
gone the next. Through it all, John Elrod sits, musing, occasionally
smiling and even laughing. At 12:10 p.m. on this 21st day of October,
rector A. Stevens Miles Jr. "51 administers the oath of office, and
Elrod stands before the crowd on his 133rd actual day, but his first
official moment, as the 22nd president of Washington and Lee.

13

  
 

 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

It almost didn’t happen this way. Just
hours before the inauguration, in fact, it
seemed that the Elrod presidency would
start much in the same manner of his
two most recent predecessors. Rain
forced John Wilson inside the Warner
Center on May 19, 1983, and Robert
E.R. Huntley °50, °57L before him in
Doremus Gymnasium on Oct. 18, 1968.

With history favoring unfavorable
conditions, then, the folks in charge of
the inauguration drew up two plans for

14

Vinderslanding the hiner condition
SOGUMMMES thal humans of COSY{YMLY
cored llores yeah for thermmselves.
Soecogniung the timitaliond of OMS

OMT LA¥YCMUC VA SOYUME Vi

the merits ard brntls of clher payiec-
Ug WUC OLS CLUMY2. Only a LA¥$YUM UE |

 

 

 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 3:50 P.M.
The rains came Friday, casting a potential

damper over the inaugural weekend.

Following an afternoon ceremony at

the Honored Benefactors Wall, Elrod
carried a smile with his umbrella.

the service: everything inside or €
thing outside. Then, about 72 he
prior to the inauguration, a Plan C
hatched: ceremony outside, lune?
inside. “We agreed to meet at 7 4.
the day of the inauguration in the f
dent’s office to make the call,” 1
director of communications Brian 9
Even so, he was leaving nothin
chance: “I had already made lami
signs to put up that said, ‘Inaugu
Moved to Warner Center.””

 

 

Following torrential downpours all
day Friday and into the early morning
hours Saturday, the odds for a third
Straight indoor gala were better than
«ven. As dawn approached the Colon-
made On Oct. 21, the Elrod inaugural
contingent made a somewhat squishy
Pilgrimage down to the front lawn.
Eetings and grounds associate director
| Hare brought a folding chair

€ of his more corpulent lieu-
fenants sat down in the chair to make

oe

 

 

FINAL PREPARATIONS
Buildings and grounds associate director
Randolph Hare (top) took the measure of the

distance between rows, while retired Reeves

Center director Jim Whitehead and his wife,

Celeste, wore their Saturday best to the event.

sure it didn’t sink. (It didn’t.) Elrod
himself brought a flashlight to check the
ground, and somebody thought they saw
a star—or maybe a plane—peeking out
of the dark. After some debate, it was
settled: Plan C was soon in motion.

Good call.

The ceremony itself was filled with
all the pomp and circumstance one
expects from inaugurations. About 80
delegates representing colleges and uni-
versities, learned societies, and educa-

15

LW ts our futlhfpul SUCL7001Y, ih
corrirlinetil Co. rEsyyvetl cach other and
pee ick Med ol sa
togelher ah @ COLUM MY. We should
tin lis yuectial COVUMUIMY: Mhil We Wwe

a grew dell lo. those ufo hive gore
is a hee ee
talor and substance lo sustain Chis

ee po ee anee C0 fw CSOVEC

tional organizations processed. W&L
ordered 95 caps and gowns for the cur-
rent and emeritus trustees, alumni, and
students in the procession.

The Elrod inaugural was celebrated
in other ways. Through a gift from the
undergraduate faculty, two days of pro-

gramming on the area National Public

Radio stations were dedicated to the
Elrods. President Wilson’s wife, Anne,
gave Elrod a matted and framed collec-
tion of photos, lithographs, silhouettes

16

 

 

ON THE SHOULDERS OF GERRY
Elrod and H.F. (Gerry) Lenfest '53,
national chairman of the Campaign for

Washington and Lee, go over their remarks

for a ceremony in Lee Chapel on Oct. 2
marking the end of the $147 million effort.

and other renderings of all 22 preside
of Washington and Lee.
How will John Elrod measure Up®
addition to the paperwork and g
work that come with fulfilling
University’s mission of educating
dents, Elrod bears nothing less than
task of leading the nation’s sixth-0l
university into the 21st century, 45%
greeter reminded him during the ©
mony. “We are counting on you
here well after the year 2000,” Uni

 

pty librarian Barbara J. Brown told the
96-year old philosopher and avid tennis
Player. “You have our warmest best
Wishes for a long and happy tenure.”
“You have excited our admiration,
not to say our envy, with your stamina
and diverse talents,” noted professor of
eetish emeritus Sidney M.B. Coulling
II °46, “among them the ability to dance

thr cai
Ough much of the night with Mimi
and stil] rise for

a new day’s work just as

aks over the British Isles.”

 

 

chen. «

 

 

CROWD FORMATIONS

“We are agents in the formation of character

of people who can make a difference in this
world,” Davidson president John Kuykendall

said as the audience, including 55 Elrods and

Milners, watched in sunlight and shadow.

i easier ae Sort

ee

a =

eS ae

 

Te
+ '

a
.

Of the Elrods, W&L senior Nova
Clarke remarked, “Both of you have
treated the students as individuals,” and
it was that sense of belonging and the
spirit of community that went to the
heart of Elrod’s inaugural address.

“Many are crying out that the town
square is emptying fast, and perhaps it is
so,” he said. “Many equally worry that
the academy is degenerating into con-
tentious factions among racial, ethnic,
and gender lines.” And while that does

17

 

indeed seem to be the case on other
campuses, he noted, “these fault lines
have not developed within the Washing-
ton and Lee student body and faculty.”

“I do not believe it is luck,” he said,
“There are dynamic factors involved in
the creation of a strong sense of commu-
nity on this campus...We surely learn
individually from each other’s experi-
ences, but we collectively learn about
the human condition from the give and
take of different points of view.”

18

 

PERFECT HARMONY
Under the direction of professor of music

Gordon Spice, the University Chamber
Singers closed the service with “O Clap Your
Hands. After the service, Mimi Milner Elrod

hugged one of many well-wishers.

Fittingly, the service ended wi
chorus of voices of varied backgro
and different perspectives. “O
Your Hands,” the students sang. And
one bright moment, the Washington
Lee community responded in kind.

 

Copies of the inauguration text, ind '
speeches by Elrod and Davidson pre
John Kuykendall, are available by writing
Washington and Lee Communications O i]
Mattingly House, Lexington, VA 24430. ~

od
5

Ce ie

P. ‘ —T ry as
5 ~ ee . Pie i,
sity SES, Cat ee oe
ae) (se. ¥. ee
a wir oa pee”

 

Photos: Jeremy Green

1. The John McKenzie Gunn Award in Economics. 2. The
New Orleans Area Scholarship in memory of David B. Favrot
Jr. °82. 3. The Garner Family Honor Scholarship. 4. The John
and Cindy Klinedinst Honor Scholarship. 5. The J. William
McClintock III Scholarship. 6. The Charles and Thelma Gray
Touchton Scholarship. 7. The Gary Dobbs *70 Memorial Lab.
8. A gold pocket watch owned by Samuel Legrand Campbell. 9.
A George Washington print, pitcher, doll head, silk square, and
tiles. 10. A painting, Goshen Pass. 11. A Printronix script printer.
12. 98 Chinese fan paintings and calligraphy on silk brocade
and an 18th-century Chinese scroll. 13. The Shannon-Clark
Lecture Series Endowment. 14. A Night Owl Records gift cer-
tificate. 15. The J. Marvin Moreland Jr. and Mary Louise
Moreland Scholarship. 16. Ten serigraphs from the “Passover
Portfolio” by Shlomo Katz. 17. Eight pieces of Chinese Export
porcelain from the Society of the Cincinnati. 18. Trees for
Fraternity Renaissance, the Watson Pavilion, and the new sci-
ence center. 19. 3,000 ficus branches used in
the movie Sommersby. 20. The Fishback
Visiting Writers Fund. 21. The Elizabeth
Lewis Otey Professorship. 22. The Robertson
Honor Scholarship. 23. The Alex. Brown &
Sons Inc. Scholarship. 24. The John F. Carrere
Memorial Scholarship. 25-26. Scholarships
from the Chaos and Cadaver societies. 27. A
replica of the sculpture 7he Creator's Game. 28.
An oil portrait of Rupert N. Latture °15. 29. A
Miley photograph of Robert E. Lee. 30. A let-
ter from Lee dated April 18, 1863. 31-32.
Subscriptions to Guide to Used Oil Revaluations
and Environmental Packaging. 33. The restora-
tion of Old George. 34. The Earl Jones
Memorial Scholarship. 35. A fax machine. 36-
37. A Karaoke music set and laserdisc player
from Pioneer. 38. The Roger H. Mudd
Endowment. 39. Improvements for the Skylark guest house.
40. Four antique ink cakes with gold Chinese characters. 41. A
four-piece contemporary Italian upholstered sectional sofa. 42.
A two-volume boxed set of unbound lithographs by Joseph
Albers. 43-44, The Henry S. Fox Jr. and Mamie Fox ‘T'wyman
Martel Professorships. 45. The Robert Lee Telford Funds. 46.
The Robert O. Bentley Scholarship in law. 47. The Van Leer
Honor Scholarship. 48. The William Lyne Wilson Symposium.
49. The John and Anne Wilson Scholarships. 50. Support for
the Summer Scholars program. 51. The Barber-Perkins
Scholarship. 52. The Donald B. McFall Scholarship. 53. The
Class of 1953 Scholarship. 54, The R. Kent Frazier Memorial
Scholarship. 55. The construction of a masonry wall at the
entrance to campus. 56. The Cy Twombly Scholarship. 57.
The David Terrence Whitman Scholarship, for graduates of the
Hill School of Pottstown, Pa. 58. The Claytor Scholarship
Endowment. 59. A book, Armorial Porcelain of the Eighteenth
Century. 60. General endowment support for faculty. 61. The
William C. Watson Endowment. 62. The Mason Corp.
Scholarship. 63. Hewlett-Packard printers and equipment. 64.
Support for the Powell Papers archivist. 65. The Warren A.
Stephens Professorship. 66. The Janice Ferman Endowment.
67-69. Scholarships from the Classes of °67, 68, and ’69. 70-71.
Ongoing support for the Rockbridge and Richmond area schol-
arships. 72. The Langdon Lamar Skarda Scholarship. 73. ‘The
Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts. 74, Math department

20

 

  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  

support. 75. The Nottberg Family Scholarship. 76, The
Corwin Scholarship. 77. Support for the Law Review. 7g, >p
Class of ’78 Law Scholarship. 79. Holders, stands, and a jh
on the history of Chinese ceramics. 80. The Culpeper Py,
81. The Lettie Pate Whitehead Scholarship Foundation.
The Lloyd C. Iredell Scholarship for journalism majc
83. The Class of °38 55th-reunion gift. 84. The Duchox
Tennis Center. 85. The Class of 70 Robert E.R. Hunt
Scholarship. 86. Support for the International Environmer
Law Program. 87. The Sidney Coulling Prize in English, gg.
Scholarships honoring former law deans Clayton E. Willig
Charles P. Light, Roy L. Steinheimer, and administr,
Catherine F. McDowell. 92. The World War II Meme
Scholarship Endowment, from the Classes of 1944-1948
The Hortense Jacobs Scholarship. 94. The A. Stevens Miles
Library Endowment. 95. A biology lecture fund. 96. The @
Mollenhoff Award in journalism. 97. A sculpture of Geo;
Washington. 98. Support for Shenandoah
zine. 99. Support for the men’s tennis progr
100. Money for weight training facilities,
102. The Ernest Williams II Professorship ;
the Marjorie O. Williams Endowment
Library Acquisitions. 103. The Wat
Pavilion for Asian Arts. 104. The Robert
and Anne Banse Honor Scholarships. 105,
Edward and Mary Aull Scholarship. 106, ”
Robert A. Mosbacher Scholarship. 107,
Edward Jackson International Reporting Fy
in journalism. 108. ‘The Douglas C. Hals
Scholarship for dormitory counselors. 109,
Levy Endowment for Neuroscience. 110.1
followspots, or stage lights, for the Len
Center, named “Marguerite” and “Ger
111. Support for Chi Psi fraternity. 112,
John T. Perry Professorship in the Scier
113. The Darrold A. and Kay Cannan Jr. Endowmen
Campus Beautification. 114. The Benjamin Fiery Schole
115. The Robert Van Buren Family Scholarship. 116.
William W. Morton Endowment for Philosophy and Relig
117. The Class of °64 Law Scholarship. 118. The duP:
Visiting Scholars Program. 119. The Murphy Teaching F
120. Law faculty salary support. 121. Funding for a study 0
Liberty Hall ruins. 122. The John W. Poynor Art Endowmé
123. The Rupert N. Latture Scholarship. 124. The Jame
Morefield Scholarship. 125. Gifts toward the Morris Ho
endowment. 126. The Todd C. Smith Memorial Fellows
Fund. 127. Fraternity Renaissance. 128. The Oliver-Moll
Library Fund. 129. The Lewis F. Powell Jr. Archives.
Money for the President’s Discretionary Fund. 131. ?
Walter E. Hoffman Scholarship. 132. Money for the restorat
of the Lee Chapel organ. 133. The R.E. Lee Rese
Program. 134. Computer Center endowment. 135. Athi
support. 136. Support for East Asian Studies. 137. The Thor
R. and Nancy H. Shepherd Scholarship and Fellowship in !
138. The Osie H. Gay Endowment. 139. Funding for the st
of psychology and odor effects. 140-143. The Arkans
Birmingham, Dallas, and Louisville Scholarships. 144. *
Carroll B. Wiltshire Endowment. 145. The Rosasco Sch¢
ship. 146. The Keelty Scholarships. 147. The Thomas Dut
Scholarship Endowment....and the list goes on.
Truly, we stand On the Shoulders of Giants. @

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

+
[

me EER oY PO! ah YY saat —— . ae ee

ie economic future of his native Norfolk, Va., on shaky ground,
the five-term member of the Virginia House of Delegates

is willing to wager on riverboat gambling as a solution.

ve
- bs
;
FE sy
.
:
=
‘4
Tee
ae
ya
72
5
~
.
x.
a
pb
a
a
ae
eet.
St ;
-
P
iy

What’s at stake? Only his political ambitions.

By William Cocke ’82

 

21

Photos (Pages 21 and 22): L. Todd Spencer

The view that nearly encompasses
the downtown law office of Jerrauld
Jones ’80L in Norfolk, Va., offers a
quick history lesson of that port city’s
past and present. Directly behind his
chair is the oldest building in Norfolk,
St. Paul’s Church, with one of Lord
Dunsmore’s Revolutionary War cannon-
balls still lodged in the southeast wall.
Across the street is Nauticus, a multi-
level entertainment and information
complex devoted to the maritime indus-
try, where Top Gun wannabes can land
on an aircraft carrier in simulated safety.

As a member of the Virginia House of
Delegates, Jones is more concerned
with what the future holds for his home-
town. It’s for this reason that he wants to
bring riverboat gambling to Norfolk—a
militarily downsized, post-nuke Norfolk,
where croupiers replace cruisers, and
blackjack tables outnumber Blackhawk
missiles. “This is really a tourism issue,
particularly in the wake of military
downsizing,” Jones insists. “Whatever
happens, there is still going to be a
tremendous black mark on this area
when the military cuts back. If we don’t
do something to enhance the livability
of this community, then we’re foolish.”

His visionary zeal notwithstanding,
Jones has been criticized (primarily by
religious groups) for attempting to legis-
late immoral activity. He remains firm in
his convictions, however, pointing out
that Virginia has already legalized liquor
by the drink, horse racing and off-track
betting, and the lottery. All of these were
passed after statewide referendums.

“Let’s put it to the vote,” he insists.
“All Jerrauld Jones seeks is a referen-
dum on riverboat casino gambling. We
could create thousands of good, decent
jobs.” He points out that Illinois, where
riverboat gambling is legal, pulled in
$202 million in gaming taxes last year,
“and that’s not counting indirect rev-
enues. We need to get past our total
dependence on the military industry.
Norfolk could be the nexus for some-
thing here.

“Representing this city as I do is both
a privilege and an honor,” he says.
“Never in my wildest dreams did I
think that I would ever have the
chance.” And although Jones is no polit-

22

 

 

0

 

 

strongly that “its benefits certainly outweigh its costs for the Hampton Roads area.”

ical neophyte—he’s entering his fifth
term in the House of Delegates—he
half-jokingly refers to the whole gam-
bling issue as “The Political Education
of Jerrauld Jones.”

“My father and my family have long
been involved in the civic and political
life of this city,” Jones says. “I have
vivid memories of his helping people.
More than anyone, he served as a role
model for me. ”

Expectations have always been high
for the middle son of the late Hilary
Jones, the first black lawyer in Norfolk
to represent indigent white clients in
Miranda rights cases in an era of segre-
gation. “My father made inroads into
the white community at a time when
there was not the same contact there is
now,” Jones recalls. “There were many
small but very important barriers that he
broke. He always had high standards of
excellence.”

In 1962, Jerrauld and his older brother
were among the first blacks to integrate
the Norfolk public school system, and
he became the first black to attend
Virginia Episcopal School six years later.
When Jones arrived at Princeton in
1972, “there were still relatively few
minority students,” he recalls. “It was a
time of turmoil and we had to achieve
and excel. There was great pressure.”

Upon his graduation from W&L law
school (where he was one of five blacks

While Jones admits that “casino gambling has brought me the greatest notoriety,” he feels

   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

in his class), Jones became the fj
black law clerk to the judges of
Supreme Court of Virginia in Rig
mond. The next year, he moved to-
state prosecutor’s office in Norfolk
got his first taste of politics when |
boss went up for reelection. Sudde
the former president of the senior ¢
at VES discovered that he had a kn
for campaigning. He joined the le
Democratic Party and quickly
through the ranks to an officer’s posit
by 1982. After managing a local juc
campaign in 1985, Jones felt ready
the next step.
Jones eschews the current politi
fashions requiring candidates to pro
declare their lack of experience as a
qualification, taking to heart the k
Tip O’Neill’s dictum, “All polities
local.” When the House of Delegat
seat Jones now holds became vacant
1987, “I had already positioned m
for it,” he recalls. “I had boxed a lot
people out. I’d done the groundw
necessary by being active in the ee
munity, volunteering at the YMCA
serving on various boards. You have
have a record of service in the comm
ty before you can expect to be electet
With Jones running unoppose@
November’s elections, he is makin
hectic round of appearances designe
help bolster his fellow Democrats,
are in danger of losing control of
state legislature for the first time 54

 

_—

Reconstruction. During a two-hour
-aterview, his phone rings constantly
with a mixture of business and political
calls from colleagues cashing in on old
favors. The next day he Is slated to fly
to Roanoke for a voter registration rally
in the black community there, all part ,
his job as head of the black caucus. “Till
have to start in earnest next year in
preparation for the Democratic
Convention,” he sighs. “As a member of
the state party's central committee, |
have a responsibility to get around the
state before the elections.”

Each time he heads off for another
legislative session, Jones must divvy up
his responsibilities to his practice, con-
stituency, and family. With a six-year-
old son and a wife, Lyn, who is a busy
lawyer herself, the latter takes the heav-
iest toll. “There are prices you pay,
emotional prices, with your family,” he
says. “I spent as much time as I could
with my son this summer. He learned
how to swim; we went to baseball games
together. But we have a modern life.
Everyone’s schedules are posted on the
refrigerator.”

Nevertheless, Jones considers him-
self lucky to be able to manage two
careers and a family. “I’m still in the
game,” he states. “There’s the thrill of
the law. Of the two jobs it is still my pri-
mary vocation. As a trial lawyer, I’ve
handled some high profile cases and
some not. My partner and I have a suc-
cessful 13-year old firm, one of the few
biracial firms in Norfolk, and my reputa-
tion is important to me.”

Jones’ political reputation—if not his
entire political future—may be riding on
the fate of riverboat gambling. He sees
it not in moral, but in economic terms:
“T felt it was something that was feasible
and sensible for the Hampton Roads
region,” he told the Newport News Daily
Press last February. “I’m responding to
the constituency that I represent, work-
Ng people who need to be employed,
Who were facing and are facing a tremen-
dous downturn in our local economy.”

Still, the issue must be treated with
a delicacy, and last term Jones with-
toad = from committee considera-

use he saw the lack of support

ee

Although Jones is no neophyte,
he half-jokingly refers to
the whole gambling issue as
‘The Political Education of
Jerrauld Jones.’

and he didn’t want to force a vote in an
election year. As to whether he will
revive the issue in January, Jones isn’t
saying. His coyness can be explained in
part because it’s an election year but
also because he’s reluctant to be pigeon-
holed. While he doesn’t mind the expo-
sure—Jones has been touted as a candi-
date for statewide office, either as attor-
ney general or lieutenant governor—he
doesn’t want to come across as a single-
issue politician.

In June’s Democratic primary, Jones
easily fended off a bid by a local black
leader who tried to play the gambling
card. His reputation as an effective leg-
islator makes it possible for him to point
to his other achievements whenever
challenged. As chairman of the
Legislative Black Caucus, Jones is, in
effect, the spokesman for Virginia’s 1.2
million blacks. He serves on the judicial
and labor committees, as well as the
ones for corporations, insurance, and
banking, and the Chesapeake Bay. He is
also chairman of the Virginia Commis-
sion on Youth, which attempts to set
family policy throughout the state. And
as chair of the subcommittee on juvenile
justice, Jones took the lead in calling for
a measured approach in overhauling the
system.

“I’ve tackled crime issues, workers
compensation, family issues,” he says.
“I’ve contributed to the most recent
major debates on abolishing parole and

welfare reform, and, really, every major
issue that’s been before the General
Assembly in the last three to four years.
I want people to say: ‘Hey, that guy’s
right there in the middle of it all.””

‘The amount of time Jones spends in
Richmond is not inconsiderable, as he’ll
be the first to tell you. “Not many peo-
ple can afford to walk away from their
jobs for so long,” he says, adding.
“People should not be so quick to con-
demn public servants. ‘There are some
self-servers, but most do it for good rea-
sons.

“To serve in Jefferson’s capitol, to go
every four years to the Commemorative
Session in Williamsburg, it’s a heady ex-
perience. I am the continuation of a
proud tradition and a small part of
history. I feel privileged to serve.”

Propped up in a corner of Jones’
office is an iron sign with “Hilary H.
Jones, Jr., Attorney” painted on it. It’s
his father’s last shingle and Jones dis-
plays it proudly. One comes away with
the feeling that Jones’ work is as much
for his father as for himself or his con-
stituency, but as a politician and a
lawyer who represents people from all
walks of life, Jones thinks more in the
here and now. “This is my town—I was
born and raised here, and it’s the town
I’ve chosen to be in—and I'll do the best
by it that I can,” he says emphatically.

He’s even willing to bet on it. @

23

24

 

 

 

and
George W. Faison ’78 has a message;
“There’s no such thing as bad food.” And
like the dashing musketeer of legend that
gives his company its name, the owner OF
D’Artagnan is turning good food into good
business with a tasty combination of luek

pluck, and a big fat duck.

By Brian Shaw

—

In the world of food and diet journal-
ism there is something called the
French Paradox. While the French con-
sume more than four times the cheese,
bhucter, and fat than the rest of the
d—all the while drinking more red

worl
an the rest of the world—they

wine th
also enjoy ¢ 289
rate of cardiovascular disease, trailing
only the Japanese. Which begs the ques-
tion: Why?

In the industrial bowels of Jersey
City, N.J., beneath the decaying Pulaski
Skyway and surrounded by turn-of-the-
century buildings that evoke images of
Damon Runyon and halcyon days of
prosperity, George Faison *78 thinks he

re world’s second-lowest

has the answer. “There is no such thing
as bad food,” he insists. “The bugaboo
is fat—an unrealistic emphasis on fat.

You can sit and eat a whole bag of fat-
free pretzels and you won't be getting
any fat, but you'll be getting 1,500 calo-

D’Artagna)
Faison’s fo;

nes. And that’s not good for you.”

The popular trend toward weight
Watching has made people afraid of
food, Faison says, particularly the kinds
e food produced by his company,
D Artagnan—home of the best fore gras
Outside of France and enough gourmet
8°0dies to make Julia Child’s head spin.

€ points to a 199] study of eating

a

habits, reported in The New York Times,
in which a French scientist suggests that
duck and goose fat, with a chemical
composition closer to olive oil than to
butter or lard, may actually improve car-
diovascular health.

So Faison is on a mission to educate
the public, not only about the benefits
of D’Artagnan products, but also about
how to enjoy life through good food.
“Good food isn’t complicated,” he says.
“One of the best meals in the world is a
fresh tomato, with some fresh basil and
some fresh mozzarella cheese. Good,
quality food shared with family and
friends is the key to a successful life.”

And the key, he might add, to a suc-
cessful business.

George Washington Faison Jr. was a
young boy growing up in Houston when
he first became interested in food. “My
parents led a pretty austere life and like

 

ducts can be shipped anywhere from Jersey City—even the White House, where
1s has been served out of the kitchens of both George Bush and Bill Clinton.

many people of their era didn’t care
much about cooking,” he recalls, sitting
in his crowded cubbyhole of an office
where a small photo of the Colonnade
hangs on the wall. “They gave me a lot
of independence, though, and I took
advantage of it.”

Faison took extended camping and
hunting trips to Colorado and California

when he was just old enough to drive.
And he was free to experiment with the
rich variety of ethnic foods that charac-
terize the culinary scene in Houston.
“My father was into ethnic food and |
got hooked on it at an early age,” he
says. “Houston is a great place for it,
with all the blue crabs, Tex Mex, and
barbecue. A great barbecue place is as
exquisite as any good French restau-
rant.”

Coming to Lexington as a fresh-
man—the fourth generation of his fami-
ly to attend Washington and Lee—
Faison must have felt like he had
crossed the Wonder Bread border back
into the land of meat and potatoes. So
he threw himself into one of W&L’s
greatest traditions: having a good time.
He joined Delta Tau Delta, enjoyed
bluegrass, and generally spent his first
two years testing the limits of his free-
dom. He and his friends had such a good
time, in fact, that the house in which
they lived on ‘Taylor Street was dubbed
La Casa de Fiesta by Spanish professor
Larry Boetsch ’69.

Then, as a junior, Faison spent a
semester abroad in Spain, where he
experienced an epiphany that has
remained with him to this day. “Spain
lic a major fire under me,” he smiles.
“Food is such a major part of that cul-
ture. You couldn’t avoid the /apas bars,
sO we went in every one.” He and his
buddies traveled to the Basque country
and to Segovia, where Faison was pre-
sented with the head of a whole suck-
ling pig—a high honor in those parts.
From there it was on to Paris—and that,
Faison says, “was where I knew what I
wanted to be.”

So he returned to Washington and
Lee and, with the help of professor Russ
Knudson, added a speaking knowledge
of French to go with his Spanish major.
After graduating, Faison enrolled at
Columbia with the hope of pursuing a
career in international banking that
would take him back to France and
Spain. But after one summer working in
a bank, he knew that this career path
was not to be. Faison was ready to quit
business school and start a food distribu-

25

Photo: Brian D. Shaw

torship in ‘Texas when he was persuad-
ed by a professor to combine his love of
food with his interest in business. That
led to his job at Les Trois Petits Cochons
(“The Three Little Pigs”), a charcuterie,
or pate producer, in Manhattan—and his
partnership with a woman named Ariane
Daugin, whom he met while he was
studying at Columbia.

The origin of D’Artagnan is one of
those Horatio Alger tales that blends
serendipity, business smarts, and the
biggest, fattest duck liver ever seen this
side of the Atlantic. ‘The latter belonged
to a farmer from the Hudson Valley,
which he brought into the charcuterie
where Faison and Daugin were working.
Daugin—who grew up in a Michelin
two-star restaurant as the daughter of
one of France’s premier chefs—saw the
potential right away. She had sensed for
some time that the U.S. market was

(named for the dashing musketeer from
Daugin’s home province of Gascony)
was born three months later.

‘The two began working the connec-
tions they had developed in the restau-
rant and food supply business, concen-
trating exclusively on foie gras at first.
On the advice of some business friends,
they began diversifying and adding new
products (recent additions include truf-
fle mousse and duck pastrami). The
going was slow at first, and it was five
years before the partners were able to
make as much money from the company
as they had earned at the charcuterie.

Since then, D’Artagnan has expand-
ed to 65 employees with gross sales last
year of $15 million and is now the
largest supplier of foie gras in the
United States, serving 1,200 restaurants
and 4,000 consumers nationwide.
Drawings for a major expansion of the
plant have been completed and work

 

“D’Artagnan is dedicated to discovering, purveying, and prepar-
ing—fresh—the unique and specialty meats of the United States and
the world, ” according to the company brochure. “Nothing is cooked
with preservatives or anything we can’t pronounce.”

Curious? Consider this D’Artagnan gift basket for the duck lover in
your family, the $89 Deluxe Duck in the D’Artagnan Cooler Bag:

ONE MOUSSE OF FOIE Gras (.65 LB.)
100 percent foie gras with a touch of Sauternes wine.
ONE DucK TERRINE MOUSQUETAIRE (.65 LB.)
A Gascon recipe of duck, prunes, and Armagnac.
ONE ALL DUCK RILLETES (.65 LB.)
100 percent duck, hard to find even in France.
ONE SMOKED MAGRET (.75 LB.)
Ready to slice and enjoy.

ONE JAR CORNICHONES FRENCH GHERKINS
The perfect pickle to eat with terrines.

 

 

 

ready for domestic foie gras (literally,
“fat liver”), which until then had been
available only in tins from France.

After Daugin and Faison tried,
unsuccessfully, to convince the charcu-
terie’s owners that they should handle
the distribution of the foie gras for the
farmer, the pair decided to do it them-
selves. And so it was, starting in a low-
rent corner of an ancient meat-packing
plant in Jersey City, that D’Artagnan

26

will begin soon. While foie gras remains
the principal revenue source, exotic
meats and imported game birds have
helped strengthen D’Artagnan’s posi-
tion in the market. The company also
carries a line of 60 gourmet prepared
products, made right in Jersey City, that
can be shipped anywhere. D’Artagnan
products have even found their way into
the White House kitchen under both
the Bush and Clinton administrations.

 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
    

As their business has grown, PD
and Faison have tried to adjust to
market demands. They are curre
grappling with the ratio of raw
modities (foie gras) and prepared
ed products as they work to grow
company. Approximately 80 percer
D’Artagnan’s revenues come from
raw commodities, while 20 per
comes from prepared foods. “Each
the percentage of commodities has
ten smaller, while the prepared f
percentage has gotten larger,”
Faison, who would like to get that
enue split to 60/40 over the next dec
“We have been following where
market wants us to go. We want tc
better job of controlling that now.”

D’Artagnan’s profile continue
rise, as evidenced by recent lauc
pieces in Forbes, Wine Spectator,
Success magazines. The crowning mor
came last February when more 1
2,000 people—chefs, gourmets,
gourmands, among them Julia C
gathered at Grand:Central Stat
celebrate D’Artagnan’s 10th an
sary, swilling champagne and st
themselves silly with foie gras. *
terrible night to eat out in New }
stockbroker and celebrant David |
told The New York Times. “Every ch
the city] is here.” :

In a flat, rectangular building
cent to a fenced parking lot crar
full of white trucks that never see
stop coming and going, amidst the
ing telephones and the rush of we
hurrying to ship orders all ove
globe, Faison preaches to a cong og
of one about the gospel of good livin

“You can’t live without some
sure in life,” he says, gesticulating
the evangelist he has become.
question is, how do you get that f
sure? Some people get it from ¢a
french fries from McDonald’s. Othet
in front of the TV with a bag of f
chips and a beer. :

“The key is to get your pleasure,
to improve your life, without hut
yourself or anyone else. Our comp
helps you do that.” @ 4

 

   

sarin
hots

Fasten your togas! It’s time to root
around in the back of the closet, or
to make a trip to that forgotten
corner of the attic. Washington and
Lee needs your memories, especially
the ones you captured on film. No
matter how modest your offerings,
send them along. Work is underway
on an anecdotal and visual history of
Washington and Lee to be published
as part of the University’s celebration

of its 250th birthday in 1999.

 

 

 

 

 

Frank Parsons °54, who knows virtually everything that has
occurred on campus over the last 46 years, is busy organizing
these capers and cataclysms into a coherent, entertaining text.
“IT want this book to evoke warm memories among all those
who have special places in their hearts for Washington and
Lee,” he says. “It’s not intended to be the official follow-up to
Ollie Crenshaw’s Genera/ Lee’s College, but an entertaining, per-
haps even funny, commentary on topics that span almost all
student generations of living alumni.”

Joining Parsons is Mame Warren, who comes to W&L after a
10-year stint as curator of photographs at the Maryland State
Archives. Warren is also the author of six books, including
Maryland Time Exposures, 1840-1940 (Johns Hopkins University
Press, 1984), for which she located almost 2,000 historical pho-
tographs from which to choose the 600 that made it into the
book. As for W&L, “My job is to convince the alumni that we
really want to see what’s in those old shoe boxes and scrap-
books they’re hoarding,” she says. “Those pictures, which
seem so personal, usually have historical value once they’re
placed in the proper context. ‘That’s what Frank and I intend to
do with this book.”

They also want story ideas and clues about who had a cam-
era when you were here (they'll do the followup). You can chat
with Parsons at (540) 463-8704 or by E-mail (fparsons@wlu.edu)
about your favorite memories of Fancy Dress, Mock Conven-
tions, professors and courses, fraternity hijinks, road trips, sport-
ing events, and...well, just about any anecdotes you can recall
of your Washington and Lee days. Watch for specific topical
questions from Parsons on W&L’s home page on the World
Wide Web (http://www.wlu.edu). You can write or send photos
to either Parsons or Warren at Washington and Lee, Hill
House, Lexington, VA 24450. Be sure to identify who appears
in the pictures—and when and where they were taken—on the
back in pencil. Please indicate whether you want the prints
returned when the project is completed. @

27

Illustrations (Pages 1 and 28) from My Life and Hard Times (Harper Collins), Copyright © 1933, 1961 James Thurber

 

As a boy growing up in Houlton, Maine, during the Depres-
sion, Harrison Kinney °47 discovered the pleasures of reading
in the town’s public library. “The books were an escape,” he
says, “and the library was warm.” During those long Maine
winters of his youth, he turned time and again to the writing of
James Thurber—favorite son of Columbus, Ohio, contributor
to The New Yorker, and the most popular humorist of his day.

Through My Life and Hard Times (1933), an American humor
classic, Kinney felt an immediate kinship with Thurber.
“Though he didn’t know it at the time, James Thurber
became a terrific friend of mine when I was in the seventh
grade,” he writes. “My fondness for Thurber and his work was
instantly personal and proprietary...I became a Thurber watcher.”

More than half a century of Thurber watching has paid off
for Kinney. His massively researched, 1,200-page biography,
James Thurber: His Life and Times (Henry Holt and Co.; $40) hits
bookstores this month, just in time for Christmas and following
the centennial of Thurber’s birth (an occasion marked with a
commemorative postage stamp issued late last year). The prod-
uct of more than five decades of fascination with his subject
and unparalleled access to Thurber’s family, his private letters,
and the man himself, the book’s arrival was heralded by
Publishers Weekly with a starred-and-boxed review—its highest
accolade—calling Kinney’s biography “exhaustive and spright-
ly.” Just the thing for all those secret Walter Mittys out there.

After a year of working to save money for college, Kinney
entered Washington and Lee in 1940. Journalism school head
Tom Riegel became his faculty adviser—“we have been
friends ever since”—and the late George Foster, who taught
freshman English, often singled out Kinney’s humorous
themes to read to the class, and introduced him to The New

28

  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 

Secret Walter Mittys of the World

Yorker (which cost a steep 15 cents but was free for the reac
in McCormick Library, where he worked part time). |
While World War II interrupted Kinney’s studies for th
years, he kept a journal and wrote whenever he could.
December 1944, a troop ship he was on was blown off-ce¢
one night in a storm and into a minefield off the coast of Ir
and a 30,000-word novel he was writing went down with
ship. In retrospect, he says, it was all for the best; the book
“warmed-over Hemingway that neither Foster nor Rie
could probably have stomached.” |
Kinney completed his B.A. in journalism from W&L int
and earned his master’s in English at Columbia Univers
where his roommate for the year was Charles McDowell
His faculty adviser, a Joycean scholar, was dubious abot
humorist as a thesis subject. But Kinney pointed out that
addition to being very nearly blind, like Joyce, Thurber
as good as Joyce in much of his humorous wordplay and
guistic fantasies, and furthermore, was an artist whose dra i
were soberly compared to those of Matisse.” His adviser yielc

Thurber had never before had a thesis written about!
and he offered to meet with Kinney at The New York
“Pictures of him rarely prepared one for Thurber in pefse
Kinney writes in his book. “He was tall, reedy, with an expt
ed head of hair, and wearing what must have been the thi
glasses known to optometry.”

Thurber was delighted with the thesis. In 1950, he wrot
the editor of 77me, who was preparing a cover story on Thu
“There is a young man named Harrison Kinney, who ¢a®
reached through the New Yorger offices, whose thesis 07”
work...contains more facts than I had known.” |

In 1949, Kinney joined The New Yorker as a “Talk of

_—

() years in the works, Harrison Kinney °47 has published a 1,200-page volume that is

ifier 4

 

 

 

 

7 Se

er Harrison Kinney °47: “His family had a rough time

Thurber b,
Of it, as m but he turned his hard times into marvelous comedy.”
own” reporter. Even then, he hoped to do Thurber’s biogra-
Phy, and told him so. “He wasn’t sure about that but permitted
me a number of interviews with him,” Kinney says. In addi-
tion, he “pestered” some of his colleagues on the staff for
thoughts and anecdotes, and over the years accumulated five
file drawers of notes and material on Thurber.

Kinney remained a confirmed “Thurber watcher” at subse-
quent jobs as a senior editor at McCall's, as a freelancer for the
Major slicks (The Saturday Evening Post, Reader’s Digest), and
finally as a business writer for IBM. He even found time to
Write a book of nonfiction, a novel, and two children’s books.
After Thurber’s death in 1961, Kinney was signed by

M

CGraw_H;
taw-Hill to pen a biography even though he was not the

 —e

 

first choice of Thurber’s second wife and widow, Helen. She
refused to release any of Thurber’s correspondence, but
Kinney, undaunted, continued gathering material from other
sources. In 1969, he submitted 1,000 rough pages to McGraw-
Hill, but his editor was gone now, and the project fizzled when
the successor ran into difficulties with a phony biography of
Howard Hughes. It looked like, for the time being, that Burton
Bernstein’s Thurber: A Biography (a family-sanctioned, though
rather unflattering, volume) and Brendan Gill’s Here at The New
Yorker, published in 1975, would be the last words on Thurber.

Kinney retired from IBM in 1986, and when Helen Thurber
died in 1988, daughter Rosemary inherited the estate. She was
agreeable to do a biography that would supplant Bernstein’s
earlier, negative tome. “When she made available to me letters
and other material never before published, and set no restric-
tions on what I wrote,” Kinney says, “I realized I hadn’t been
ready to doa proper Thurber biography before then.”

Last year, he turned over a 2,000-page manuscript to Henry
Holt editor Patricia Strachan (who edited Tom Wolfe °51’s The
Bonfire of the Vanities while at Farrar, Straus and Giroux).
Strachan refused to be bound by space restrictions, and Kinney
admits, “as a consequence, I’ve got a big book.”

With a first printing of 16,000 copies, Kinney is set to
embark on a long-overdue book tour—mostly in Ohio, which
remains big Thurber territory. The Carmel (N.Y.) resident
acknowledges “more relief than excitement” that the book is
finally out. “There were years when I thought it wasn’t going
to happen, but I always regarded it as a kind of debt,” he says.
“l owed Thurber for all the pleasure and comfort his books
gave me, and I suppose that’s what helped keep me at it.”

—By William Cocke ’82

29

&L Law

Lyman P.Q. Johnson, a nationally re-
nowned scholar in corporate law, trains
students to be corporate lawyers.
Andrew W. (Uncas) McThenia ’58, ’63L,
an author, educator, and public interest
advocate, trains lawyers to help the
down and out. Despite their different
backgrounds and very different clienteles,
the two share a common goal—prepar-
ing lawyers for a moral profession—and
another distinction as well. Johnson and
McThenia have been named Robert O.
Bentley professor of law and James P.
Morefield professor of law, respectively,
for their contributions to the law school.

“These new appointments reflect the
broad conception of legal education as
we practice it at Washington and Lee,”
says dean Barry Sullivan. “In their dif-
ferent ways, Lyman and Uncas embody
the law school’s commitment to excel-
lence in teaching, research, and service
to the profession and society. We’re con-
cerned about the whole student. Edu-
cating lawyers means paying attention,
as they have, to both the ethical and the
intellectual dimensions of lawyering.”

Since joining the W&L faculty in
1985, Johnson has taught courses in
partnerships, corporation law, corporate
finance, and securities regulation, as
well as seminars on hostile takeovers
and business restructurings, business
planning, and introduction to lawyer’s
role. In conjunction with management
professor Joseph Goldsten, he also
teaches an undergraduate course in the
Williams School. “Lyman’s scholarship
is on the cutting edge, says Sullivan.
“He is one of a few people defining the
agenda in the corporate area.”

Johnson received his B.A. in econom-
ics from Carleton College in 1973 and his
law degree in 1978 from the University of
Minnesota Law School. From 1978 to
1984, he was an associate, then partner,
with the Minneapolis-St. Paul firm of
Stacker & Ravich, where he worked pri-
marily with business clients in the areas
of corporate, securities, tax, real estate,
partnership, and business planning law.

30

From Corporations to Coal Fields
Johnson and McThenia Offer a Contrast in Studies

.
8 te.
XN

Robert O. Bentley professor of law: preparing lawyers for a moral professton.

As a consultant on corporate and
securities law issues, he recently com-
pleted work on a landmark case in the
Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals involv-
ing WLR Foods of Broadway, Va., the
No. 2 turkey producer (Wampler-
Longacre), and a hostile takeover
attempt by Tyson Foods begun in 1994.
“The case has repercussions for corpo-
rate law that are quite extensive,” says
Johnson, who engaged some of his stu-
dents to do research for the case.

“An academic lawyer should be the
bridge between the worlds of theory and
practice,” he adds. “The intellectual and
legal engagement deepens my ability to
convey to students in class both the
underlying theoretical problems and the
way they actually are resolved.”

As chairman of the law school’s
placement committee, Johnson notes
that the practice of hiring lawyers has
changed: “It has gotten to be a profes-
sion that talks about itself as a business.
The students are our intellectual disci-
ples and we should be concerned for
their activities. They are our legacy to
the profession, and we are a small law
school that can take a personal interest

Uncas McThenia ’58, ’63L (left), James P. Morefield professor of law, and Lyman Johnson,

 
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  

~*

- Dane

in where they end up.” A sizable
of W&L law grads go into corporate
and as such wield an enormous
of unseen power—and respo
“The practice of law,” Johnson
“should be a moral profession.”

While Lyman Johnson is
lawyers to advise corporations, U
McThenia is training lawyers to
the down and out—the mentally
ed, people incapacitated by black
disease, the homeless—by
his work in public interest law with
special interests and research in
gy and ministry. In addition to
a required Contracts course, he
seminar on Lawyering for Social
Economic Change. “Uncas embodies !
virtue of good citizenship,” says
van. “He is respected not only for
learning, but also for his wisdom and
ication to the good of the community.”

“A good portion of our ed
mission is to help students develop
professional skills and prepare
enter the practice of law, and I think
do a good job of that,” McThenia
“But there is a mission of servic®

well.” He directs a legal practice

which represents patients who have
been involuntarily committed to Western
State Hospital, a state-run mental insti-
cution. “My major challenge with the
clinics is to constantly remind my stu-
dents—and myself—that the work we
are doing 1s important, not because of
our rare legal victories, but because we
may be the only people our clients see
who are willing and able simply to be
there for them. This is perhaps the most
significant teaching I do: to help students
learn the value of simply being pres-
ent—loitering with intent, as it were.”

\fcer graduating from law school,
McThenia practiced law in the Wash-
ington (D.C.) area for four years before
returning to Lexington to teach in 1967.
In 1989, he spent eight months working
in the coal fields of central Appalachia
with an Episcopal Church-owned labor
learning center called Grace House.

“That was a transformative experi-
ence,” he recalls. “I went there thinking
that my internship was to be a ministry
of community organizing and Bible
study. Yet, a short time after my arrival,
the region was thrown into serious eco-
nomic and social upheaval.” ‘The United
Mine Workers Union called a strike
against Pittston Coal, which lasted nine
months, and McThenia was active in
the strike, helping to organize picket
line activity while explaining the nature
of the conflict to mainline churches.

\ic Thenia recently edited a book of
essays, Radical Christian and Exemplary
Lawyer, honoring William Stringfellow, a
theologian and lawyer who practiced in
Harlem. He is also active in a homeless
ministry in Lexington, and he and his
wife, Anne, open their home one night a
week to law students for Bible study.
Last year he received an Outstanding
Faculty Award from the Virginia State
Council of Higher Education and a
Doctor of Humane Letters from the
Virginia Theological Seminary.

“There are many forms of public
interest work,” he says, “and no one
Ought to claim superiority either that his
or her notion has the moral high ground
Or is more effective in delivering justice.
As far as I’m concerned, almost any legal
Work which resists the status quo is in

the public interest.” —By Evan Atkins

 

Randy Bezanson Comes
Home to the Classroom...

“There’s no better life than the one
I’m enjoying right now,” says Randall
P. Bezanson, leaning back in his
chair in his fourth-floor faculty office
in Lewis Hall. “I love to teach and |
love to write.”

It is definitely a relaxed Bezanson
who has returned to Washington and
Lee—and fulltime teaching—after a
one-year leave from the School of
Law. Following a six-year tenure as
dean, Bezanson was encouraged by
several other law schools to consider
being their dean, but his answer in
each case was no. He chose instead
to come back to W&L to teach consti-
tution law and a freedom of speech seminar. “Washington and Lee is not
just any law school,” he explains. “It’s a small community where all the
people work together. The students and the faculty are talented and inter-
esting, and the alumni are wonderful and supportive.”

During his year-long leave from W&L, Bezanson and his wife, Elaine,
spent the fall at their cabin on a quiet lake in the woods of northern
Wisconsin. He wrote a number of articles and completed his fourth book,
Knowledge Taxes in America: Exactions on the Press From Colonial Times
to the Present (University of Pennsylvania Press). From there it was on to
lowa City where, last spring, Bezanson taught constitutional law to first-
year students at his old stomping grounds, the University of lowa, where
he had served as law professor and vice president before coming to W&L.

Now that he is back to fulltime teaching, Bezanson can enjoy his accom-
plishments as dean from a different perspective. “My basic objective was
to have W&L achieve the highest quality of legal education in the nation,”
he says. “Top students force you to set your sights higher in and out of the
classroom.” During his tenure, major revisions were made to the curricu-
lum, especially to build on W&L’s tradition of small classes and intensive
writing and research.

These days, the School of Law ranks high, not only in academics but in
student satisfaction and quality of life, in surveys from U.S. News & World
Report to the Princeton Review and the National Jurist. Applications to
W&L law school have increased while the number nationally has declined.
Gifts from law alumni are higher per capita than those from Harvard or
Yale. “Our alumni were wonderfully supportive,” says Bezanson, who did a
lot of traveling as the University completed its capital campaign. “I hope
they will stop by and say hi.”

You'll find him in Room 484.

 

 

...While Henry St. G. Tucker
Finds a Home in Lewis Hall

A newly restored portrait of Henry St.
George Tucker 1875, 1876L—son of
John Randolph Tucker and third dean
of the school of law (1899-1902)—is
now hanging in the office of the 14th
law dean, Barry Sullivan. The portrait,
by William Polk Dillon, had been in
storage in the Special Collections
archive of the Leyburn Library. “The
Tuckers are the single most impor-
tant family in the history of legal edu-
cation in Virginia,” says law library
archivist John Jacob.

31

Senior defensive tackle and Lexington native
Robert Hull lived up to his preseason billing
as The Sporting News’ Division II]
defensive player of the year.

32

 

 

By BRIAN LOGUE

Individuals on four of Washington
and Lee’s seven fall sports teams were
honored as Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference player of the year and the indi-
vidual accolades were not without out-
standing team achievements. W&L won
a pair of ODAC championships and the
men’s cross country team qualified for
the NCAA Division III championships
for the first time in school history.

_

Football

The Generals were just a couple of
breaks away from going 8-1, but won five
of their final six games, including big
conference wins over Hampden-Sydney
and Guilford, to finish the 1995 season
with a 5-3-1 record. Frank Miriello, who
had been serving as interim coach since
the tragic death of Gary Fallon in April,
was named full-time head coach midway
through the season.

Returning to those breaks now,
Washington and Lee played Centre to q
7-7 tie in September, then suffered two
extremely frustrating losses later on,
The Generals fell 24-21 to Randolph-
Macon in its fifth game when a blocked
field goal was returned for a touchdown
in the fourth quarter. A 2-0 loss to
Swarthmore on mud-covered Wilson
Field closed the season.

W&L senior defensive tackle Robert
Hull was named The Sporting News’ pre-
season Division III defensive player of
the year, and lived up to that billing
with a school-record 14 sacks. Hull was
named ODAC player of the year and
was joined on the All-ODAC first team
by junior quarterback Brooks Fischer,
senior safety Stuart Hogue and senior
offensive tackle Robert Turner. Named
to the second team were seniors Butler
Ball (safety), Andrew Statton (offensive
guard), Drew Thomas (punter), and
James Urban (receiver).

Women’s Cross Country

Graduation depleted the Generals’
strength from the last few years, but
senior Josephine Schaeffer returned to
the All-America form of her freshman
and sophomore years before battling
injuries last season. Schaeffer won all
but one race leading up to the NCAA
Division III championships, including
the NCAA Division III South/Southeast
regional for the third time in her careet.

W&L won a state championship for
the fourth straight season, but was just
edged out by Lynchburg for the confer
ence title. Schaeffer was the individual
winner and was joined on the All
ODAC team by sophomore Carson
Flowers and junior Nat Messmore.

Men’s Cross Country

The Generals came out of nowhere
co win the ODAC championship last
season and took things a step further
this year, winning the NCAA Division III
South/Southeast regional to qualify for
the NCAA Division III championships.
W&L, which won its first state champi-
onship this season, entered the NCAA
meet ranked 22nd in the country.

Senior Brad Paye and sophomore
Jason Callen were W&L’s top runners
this season with Callen taking the
ODAC individual championship to earn
conference runner of the year honors.
Callen, Paye and sophomore Taylor
Shultz were all named all-region.

Women’s Soccer

‘The Generals posted 10 wins for the
second consecutive season and ad-
vanced to the semifinal round of the
ODAC Tournament before falling to

 

*,
¢

 

archrival Roanoke in a 4-0 shutout.

The Generals played without record-
breaker Erica Reineke for the first half
of the season, but the offense scored 57
goals this season, two shy of last year’s
school record. Freshman Karin Treese
and junior Michelle Bauman did most of
the damage, notching 14 goals each.

Bauman was named to the All-ODAC
first team along with freshman Nicole
Johnson and Treese was joined on the
second team by sophomores Leighton
Kirby and Lorraine Taurassi.

NMien’s Soccer

The Generals started the season by
winning four straight games, but their
youth caught up with them by season’s
end, and they finished with a 7-9 mark,
falling to Emory & Henry 5-1 in the
quarterfinal of the ODAC Tournament.

Freshman sweeper Mikel Parker
dominated play at times this season and
was honored with a selection to the All-

ODAC first team. His high school team-
mate, Sam Chase, was the leading scorer
in the league and broke Scott Fechnay’s
28-year-old school record for goals in a
season with 18 to earn second team All-
conference honors.

During the regular season, W&L beat
Emory & Henry 4-1, handing the Wasps
their only conference loss of the year.
Three of the Generals’ losses came by
identical 2-1 scores to conference rivals
Eastern Mennonite, Hampden-Sydney,
and Randolph-Macon.

Volleyball

W&L’s volleyball program has slowly
been climbing the ladder of success in
recent years, but this year they took a
major leap forward in winning the
school’s first ODAC championship.
W&L finished with its best mark in
school-history at 29-6 and rolled over
Emory & Henry, Guilford, and Roanoke
to win this year’s ODAC tournament.

 

 

Fres n Karin Treese scored 14 goals, helping the Generals to 10 wins for the second consecutive season before falling to Roanoke in the ODACs.

33

 

Freshman sweeper Mikel Parker dominated

play at times this season and was honored
with a selection to the AH-ODAC first team.

Sophomore Hilary Martin was named
ODAC player of the year after establish-
ing new W&L single-season marks for
kills (356) and hitting percentage (.345).
She was joined on the All-ODAC first
team by senior setter Cheryl Taurassi,
who broke her own school marks for
assists in a match (50), season (527) and
career (1,964). Junior Virginia Yoerg had
113 blocks and earned second team All-
ODAC honors. All three were named to
the all-tournament team with ‘Taurassi
(page 35) named tournament MVP.

Water Polo

While the Generals had a down year
with a 10-12 record, they posted one of
the biggest upset wins in the program’s
history against Navy, sinking the nation-
ally ranked Midshipmen 16-15 on a two-
pointer at the buzzer by senior Rich
Cober in late September and sending
shock waves through the water polo
community. W&L hosted the Eastern
Water Polo Association Division III
championships in late October, but a bid
for the school’s third title in four years
ended with a 12-8 loss to Johns Hopkins
in the finals following wins over MIT
and the Merchant Marine Academy.

Junior James Silberstein was W&L’s
top offensive weapon with 52 goals this
season, while Cober added 35.

34

Fall Sports Scoreboard

2nd of 26 at Lebanon Valley Invitational
Ist of 6 at W&L Invitational

2nd of 17 at Dickinson Invitational

2nd of 18 at Greensboro Invitational

Ist of 7 at State Championship

2nd of 29 at Gettysburg Invitational

Ist of 6 at ODAC Championship

Ist of 16 at NCAA Southeast Regional

5th of 27 at Lebanon Valley Invitational
3rd of 5 at W&L Invitational

9th of 17 at Dickinson Invitational

5th of 14 at Greensboro Invitational

Ist of 3 at State Championship

10th of 21 at Gettysburg Invitational
2nd of 5 at ODAC Championship

8th of 12 at NCAA Southeast Regional

Emory & Henry 35, W&L 22
W&L 7, Centre 7
Randolph-Macon 24, W&L 21
W&L 19, Davidson 13

W&L 21, Hampden-Sydney 7
W&L 36, Sewanee 21

W&L 24, Bridgewater 13
W&L 13, Guilford 9
Swarthmore 2, W&L 0

W&L 1, Shenandoah 0
W&L 3, Marymount 0
W&L 5, Catholic 3

W&L 4, Emory & Henry 1
Virginia Wesleyan 3, W&L 0
W&L 2, Guilford 0

Eastern Mennonite 2, W&L 1
Hampden-Sydney 2, W&L 1
Roanoke 4, W&L 2

W&L 5, Bridgewater 0
Randolph-Macon 2, W&L 1
Cabrini 3, W&L 1

VMI 3, W&L 0

W&L 7, Lynchburg 2
Centre 2, W&L 0

Emory & Henry 5, W&L 1

Kean 6, W&L 1

W&L 3, Jersey City 1

W&L 12, Mary Baldwin 0
W&L 4, Guilford 1

W&L 2, Hollins 0

W&L 8, RMWC 0
Randolph-Macon 4, W&L 1
W&L 9, Sweet Briar 0
W&L 3, Virginia Wesleyan 2
Roanoke 3, W&L 0

W&L 1, Haverford 0

W&L 10, Lynchburg 3
Notre Dame (Md.) 2, W&L 1

 

Centre 2, W&L 1
W&L 1, Guilford 0
Roanoke 4, W&L 0

  
      

W&L def. Christopher eae 3- 0
W&L def. Carnegie Mellon 2-0
W&L def. Randolph-Macon 2-0
W&L def. Catholic 2-0

W&L def. Lebanon Valley 2-0
W&L def. Randolph-Macon 2-0
W&L def. RMWC 3-0 Al
Bridgewater def. W&L 3-2 oe
W&L def. Penn St.-Behrend 2-0
W&L def. Marymount 2-0 y qi
Washington & Jefferson def. W&L
W&L def. Eastern Mennonite 2-0 |
Gettysburg def. W&L 2-0 a
W&L def. Allentown 2-1
Gettysburg def. W&L 2-0
W&L def. Lynchburg 3-0
W&L def. Emory & Henry 3-0 |
W&L def. Sweet Briar 2-0
W&L def. Marymount 2-0
W&L def. Stockton State 2-1
W&L def. Goucher 2-0

W&L def. Marymount 2-0
W&L def. Sweet Briar 3-0
W&L def. Hollins 3-1

W&L def. Randolph-Macon 3-0
Gallaudet def. W&L 3-2

W&L def. Salisbury State 3-0
Kean def. W&L 3-1 ;
W&L def. Mary Washington 3-28
W&L def. Guilford 3-0

W&L def. Eastern Mennonite
W&L def. Emory & Henry 3-0 —
W&L def. Guilford 3-2

W&L def. Roanoke 3-0

W&L 16, Findlay 6
W&L 23, Virginia Tech 9
W&L 16, Virginia Tech 5
W&L 16, Findlay 6
W&L 14, Findlay 8
W&L 16, Navy 15 ee
Richmond 16, W&L 11 po
W&L 13, Johns Hopkins 12.
Villanova 11, W&L 6 <a
Princeton 12, W&L 9 =
W&L 17, George Washington 1 By
W&L 15, VMI 1 a
Slippery Rock 23, W&L 6 -
Bucknell 23, W&L 4 a
Richmond 11, W&L 8
Richmond 13, W&L 7
W&L 19, MIT 6 a
W&L 22, Merchant Marine es
Johns Hopkins 12,W&L8
Navy 24, W&L 4

Slippery Rock 21, W&L 10 ia
George Washington 18, W&L 8

—
Old Sports Injury?

senior Captain Cheryl Taurasst
Hasn t Got Time for the Pain
Ever since her first sports injury in

nth grade, it’s been Cheryl ‘Taurassi’s
ering dream to be a doctor. It’s a

seve
unway
pretty good bet that she'll see it through.

Determination comes naturally to
Taurassi, a two-sport captain at Wash-
ington and Lee who has injured
her knee three different times
at W&L and has battled back
from the disabled list stronger
every time. “Cheryl’s a take-
charge kind of person,” says
lacrosse coach Jan Hathorn.
“Her heart is so big that once
she decides to give herself to
something, she gives her whole
being. I truly believe she’s a
born leader.”

Taurassi is the starting setter
on the volleyball team and has
started all four years, but her

 

leadership role on the lacrosse
team is even more impressive.
“My freshman year was tough,”
she recalls. “I wasn’t as experi-
enced as most of the other play-
ers and their level of play was
higher. I felt out of place.”

That feeling didn’t last for
long. “I decided things were
going to change,” she says, “so I
practiced a lot and it made a dif-
ference.” She moved into the
Starting lineup as a sophomore,
but then blew her knee out in
the third game and was lost for
the season. She started again last year
and stayed healthy most of the season,
feinjuring the knee in the final game.

That injury put some doubt into her
s€nior year of volleyball, but her
strength returned as the season drew
Near, and ‘Taurassi led W&L to its best
‘tart in school history, opening the sea-
Son with eight straight wins. Then
Taurassi injured the knee on a Friday
night in Gettysburg and once again put
ome doubt into the future of her vol-
leyball career. As always, she rose off the
“4Nvas and was back playing in less than

two weeks. She has had another great
season and ranks among the top setters
in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference with 7.3 assists per game.
Taurassi holds the school records for
assists in a match, season, and career,
and has led a continuous progression of
success on the volleyball court. W&L
was 13-14 her freshman year and has
since posted 15-12, 19-8, and 26-6
records in successive years.

But she brings much more to the vol-

doctor. She suffered an ankle injury in
the seventh grade and visited a sports
medicine clinic for treatment. She
immediately fell in love with the atmos-
phere and has since wanted to become a
doctor, more specifically, an orthopedic
surgeon. She has already been accepted
into medical school at Syracuse in her
native New York and has interviewed at
several other schools. If she goes into
the field she’ll be able to give plenty of
real-life experiences and advice.
‘Taurassi first injured her

 

”
ad

ot

’ ry
as y
“ <
s BN atnteitind
Pee te eal

Raa)

v4 oa
‘Sn h :
4 :
<< ne
>
=
a. #
oe
os,
ee. SF
y
+
&
it,
. an
ww
me
aM
“~
ae
‘ ‘
+3 -
ease -
Py ee
a >
Pe
Ss

 

Taurasst suits up for volleyball action with knee protection.

leyball and lacrosse programs at W&L
than talent. Her strength is her leader-
ship, as evidenced by her selection as a
two-year captain for the volleyball team
and a captain for the lacrosse team this
spring. It has not gone unnoticed by her
coaches. “She’s very aggressive and has
a little fire in her which is unique to this
school,” says volleyball coach Terri
Dadio. “She’s a tough competitor who
has dealt with a lot of hardship and
expects others to do the same. She never
gives up, and people react to that.”

She may have also been born to be a

knee in high school, but opted
against reconstructive surgery.
“IT didn’t want to take the time
out and miss the whole year,”
she explains. “Looking back, I
should have just missed the
season and I probably would
have avoided a lot of the prob-
lems I’ve had since.” Nonethe-
less, she doesn’t let these prob-
lems consume her. “I’m totally
scared about my knee,” she
admits, “but I never think about
it. | refuse to think about it.”
So she plays with a reckless

 

abandon, giving her all on every
play for her team and her
school—a place that she admits
“was the furthest South |
would have gone.” ‘Taurassi
visited W&L on a four-day
Honor Scholarship weekend
and immediately liked it. She
wound up with an Honor
Scholarship and has been on
the Honor Roll six straight
semesters. And with her sister,
Lorraine, in her sophomore year
at W&L, Cheryl feels more at
home than ever. “We get along really
well and we’re more like friends than
sisters,” says Cheryl, who is even room-
ing with Lorraine this year.

‘Taurassi has always felt most at home
on the volleyball court, where her deter-
mination is impossible to ignore.
Chasing a ball during a play her junior
season, she dove over a photographer
into the bleachers, injuring her shoulder
and missing the rest of the tournament
that day. But the thing she remembers
most vividly about the play? ‘Taurassi
smiles: “I got the ball.” —By Brian Logue

35

Alumni News

 

 

Alumni who served both at home and overseas

marked the occasion during Homecoming.

“Remember 1945.” ‘That phrase was
repeated over and over at Homecoming
1995. Washington and Lee played host
to an unprecedented number of alumni,
with more than 200 registering through
the Alumni Office (hosts of others
attended but did not register). The draw
this year: a War Years cluster reunion
including every class from 1932 to 1950.

“Each spring the 50th reunion class
gathers in Lee Chapel to present its
major gift to the University,” explains
associate alumni director Rob Mish ’76,
“and hidden behind their immense
expressions of loyalty, pride, and gen-
erosity is the memory of sacrifice—the
sacrifice felt on the campus from 1941
through 1945. This memory is humbly
understated, and it would have been
inappropriate for the 50th anniversary of
the end of World War II to have passed
without recognizing the contributions of
our alumni to the war effort.”

 

Psychology professor Len Jarrard (left) blows
his horn with the Jim Caldwell Band.

36

—

War Reunion Brings Memories Home

Hundreds Turn Out for Biggest Homecoming in 50 Years

ow As .
a (.."O?
,

 

‘ a » Se pee SY

ev. Standrod Carmichael ’45 remembers

the 136 WEL alumni who died in the war.

In preparation for the weekend, the
Alumni Office solicited wartime anec-
dotes from anyone who had participated
in World War II for a memorial Ca/yx.
The resulting 96-page book, titled War
Stories, includes nearly 400 entries and
more than 80 wartime photos and was
enthusically received during registra-
tion. (A limited number are still available
for $20 each from the Alumni Office.)

In addition to the reunion of the War
Years classes and the biannual meeting
of the Alumni Board and Law Council,
Homecoming Weekend offered many
other highlights. Charley McDowell °48
delivered the keynote address to a
capacity crowd for the opening assembly
in Lee Chapel Thursday evening, con-
juring many fond memories for the audi-
ence with tales of his Lexington youth.

Despite the threat of stormy weather
in the wake of Hurricane Opal, Friday

saw the arrival of sunny blue skies as

 

 

Alumni swung to the solid-gold sounds of the
Glenn Miller Band at Warner Center Friday.

 

VM] provost Lee D. Badgett (Left), President
Elrod, and Fred Pitzer 42 review the cadets.

well as many more alumni. Faculty
presided over four different war-themed
seminars, including “Politics and the
War: The Pacific Theater” (Roger
Jeans, Robert Strong), “Rosie the
Riveter: Women and the War on the
Home Front” (Roberta Senechal),
“Washington and Lee and World War
II” (Taylor Sanders, William Buchanan
’41), and “Legacies of World War Ik
The Hazards of Waging Peace” (Barry
Machado). Over in the law school, Carol
M. Rose, Gordon Bradford ‘Tweedy pro-
fessor of law at Yale Law School, deliv-
ered the annual John Randolph Tucker
Lecture. Her topic was “A Dozen Propo-
sitions on Private Property, Public Rights,
and the New Takings Legislation.”
Alumni witnessed a somewhat un-
usual occurrence on Friday afternoon.
Following the hospitable reception
accorded them at the Marshall Museum
Thursday evening, the VMI Corps of

 

Gang of five: Charley McDowell 48 kicks back
with his peers after Thursday night s spetth.

—a!/,

 

 

\appas Stacy Williams, Kylie
1 O'Connor, and Hollis Leddy.

Trophy /
Edward

Cadets marched their weekly dress
parade in honor of the War Years alumni.
Joined by President Elrod, the WWII
vets served as the reviewing team while
the cadets and their marching band
passed the bandstand playing (what
else?) the “Washington and Lee Swing.”
While alumni of a more recent vin-
tage boogied to the sounds of Wide-
spread Panic in the Student Activities
Pavilion Friday night, their War Years
counterparts were decked out in black
tie, dining and dancing to the strains of
“A Sentimental Journey” and other
familiar tunes played by the Glenn
Miller Orchestra. The walls of the
Warner Center were draped in black and
bathed in candlelight for a party that
lasted well past people’s bedtime.
Saturday morning began with a
memorial service officiated by the Rev.
Standrod Carmichael °45 in Lee Chapel
honoring the 136 Washington and Lee

 

Dick Smith

Stones diy.

14 Lea Booth ’40 swap war
‘urday’s lunch on the lawn.

=

- ‘oa
- . beh . A IEE
od Fi

a
- ‘

 

Homecoming queen Caroline Connolly °96
and escort Lee Counselman °96: all smiles.

men who died in World War II. Soon
after, the War Years alumni gathered
outside R.E. Lee Episcopal Church to
review still another parade. W&L’s
annual homecoming parade drew more
than 40 participants from the student
body and surrounding communities,
including two marching bands, four fire
departments, assorted clowns and politi-
cians, and 20 student organizations fac-
ing off in the competition for the best
homecoming float. The sisters of Kappa
Kappa Gamma took first place for the
second time in four years. The sorority’s
winning entry included members of the
Roanoke chapter of the Harley Owners
Guild (HOG) revving their cycles down
Main Street alongside Kappa’s own
Harley-straddling nominee for home-

coming queen, sorority president Betsy
Blunt °96. The float’s slogan: “Hardly
Davidson.” The game culminated in a
19-13 Generals win over the Wildcats.

 

 

1942 Betas (l-r) Hank Woods, Jack Barrie,
Charles Lanier, Edgar Boyd, and spouses.

 

 

 

 

Name droppers: Four wacky guys from the

Freefallin’ Skydive Team crowned the queen.

During halftime of the football game,
Executive Committee president Keith
Benedict *96L announced the runners-
up for homecoming queen, but it wasn’t
until Scott French and three other mem-
bers of the Freefallin’ Skydive Team
bounded onto the 50-yard line from
8,000 feet and huddled together to loudly
proclaim Caroline Connolly the winner.

‘The weekend wound to a close with a
pair of victory celebrations after the
game, one at the Alumni House and the
other for law alumni on the lawn in front
of ‘Tucker Hall, where a photo retrospec-
tive of the law school’s early years was
on display inside.

It was, in short, another successful
weekend. “Those of us in Lexington
have come to know W&L’s sense of
community on a daily basis,” says alumni
director Jim Farrar °74, “but alumni look
forward to experiencing it anew when

they return to this special campus.”

 

Charlie Row
tion on the 13-foot map in the Alumni House.

» 45, “SOL pins his wartime sta-

ao,

37

 

 

 

A sunset dinner cookout and cruise around
Hilton Head Island welcoming President
and Mrs. Elrod was held aboard the
Adventure on Sept. 29. Shown from left are
Mimi Milner Elrod, Hilton Head chapter
president Bob Hawkins ’57, Helen Bishop,
John Elrod. and Mike Lawrence ’66.

 

 

The Blue Ridge chapter gathered for a cock-
tail reception in honor of John and Mimi
Elrod on Sept. 26 at the Charlottesville
home of Robin and Dick Kreitler ’65. Shown
at left with the Kreitlers is chapter president

Cotton Puryear S86.

 

The Palmetto chapter meeting at the Forest
Lake Country Club on Sept. 28 honoring
President and Mrs. Elrod also functioned as

a Walker family reunion of sorts. Shown

from left are Claude Walker Jr. °71, Joann
Walker, Dot Walker, Traci Walker, Claude
Walker °41, Joe Walker '76, Robert Walker

38. and Sara Walker.

38

 

Lee McLaughlin Jr. (left), accepting for his
fath rT. decease dWeL football coach Le
McLaughlin, smiles alongside 1995 Athletic

Hall of Fame inductees Mike Bernot '82,

Sam Englehart ’73, and Tony Perry °77
during halftime of the W@L-Centre football

game. Washington and Lee held its eighth

annual Hall of Fame banquet Sept. 23.

 

Mile High Generals: The Denver Rocky
Mountain chapter held a homecoming
barbecue picnic on the lawn Oct. 1 at the
Aurora (Colo.) home of Val and John
Howard ’84. Attendees included (front row,
/-r) Val Howard; John Simonton °92; Sybil
Fishburne (wife of Chris Kuelling ’82L);
Kevin Kelley ’85, Harris White ’86 and his
wife, Virginia; chapter president Becky
Payne ’92L; (back row) Maryanne Pratt
and fiance Sloan Shoemaker '84; John
Howard '84; Julie Bearup and husband
Mike Bearup ’85; Greg Barrow ’87; Rob
Payne; Scott Levitt ’90; and Rush Levitt.

   

Alumni Board president Neal Cory °77 (left)
and vice president Hatton Smith °73 discuss

 

Alumni Association plans for 1995-96 over
a round of golf in Birmingham on July 26

 

Law Dean Barry Sullivan (right) hosteda@
reception for Washington and Lee alumni
and their spouses at the annual meeting Of
the American Bar Association in Chicago tm
August. Shown with Sullivan are Woody W.
Lay ’91L; Lay’s wife, Laney; and trustee
Pamela J. White °77L.

 

 

 

Members of the Class of 99 enjoyed the hos-
pitality of the San Diego chapter during us |
annual Sunset Party on Aug. 12. Showa
from left are Justin Blackwell °99, Megan
Carleton °99, Rich diDonna °96, Alex
Christensen ’98, Leeland Yee °95, Carl
Schultz °99, and Dan Hilley °99.

Alumni Directory
Comes Into the ‘90s

Have you moved in the last five
years? Changed jobs? Are you looking
for alumni in all the wrong places?

Help is on the way. W&L will pub-
lish a fully updated and revised alumni
directory next fall, the first such com-
prehensive listing since 1990.

The new Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Alumni Directory, scheduled for
release toward the end of 1996, will
offer the most current and comprehen-
sive reference on more than 19,000

“Washington and Lee alumni ever com-
piled. Individual alumni listings will
include current name, address, and
phone number, academic data, plus
business information (if applicable).
The volume will be available in both
hardcover and softcover editions.

The Alumni Office has contracted
with the Bernard C. Harris Publishing
Co. of Norfolk, Va., to produce the
directory. Harris will soon begin re-
searching and compiling the information
to be printed in the directory by mailing
a questionnaire to all W&L alumni. (If
you prefer not to be listed in the direc-

~ tory, please contact the Alumni Office in
writing as soon as possible.)

Additional details on the project,
including prices and ordering informa-
tion, will appear in upcoming issues.

Louisville Chapter
Establishes Book Award

A Washington and Lee University
Book Award has been established by
Louisville alumnus John H. Ward IV
68. The award is presented to a high
School junior who exhibits the qualities
Most cherished and exemplified by
George Washington and Robert E. Lee,
including academic excellence, personal
Ntegrity, and significant campus in-
volvement. (The book, Patriarch, chron-
cles the impact of Washington’s presi-
dency on a new American nation.)

The award was first presented at

uisville Country Day and has expand-
ed to include other area schools, includ-
ng Ballard, Collegiate, Sacred Heart,
‘nd Shelby County High School.

 

Class Notes

’

2/
C.W. Clark Poole
still enjoys retirement in his home
on the shores of the Chesapeake
Bay. He has no complaints and finds
keeping active, traveling a little, and
reading a lot quite an acceptable
way of life!

’

3]
John M. Stemmons
was the 1995 recipient of the Spirit
of Generations Award, presented
Nov. 29. The annual luncheon hon-
ors those who have contributed sig-
nificantly in “thoughts, words and
deeds” to the past, present, and
future of Dallas. Stemmons, 86,
is chairman emeritus of Industrial
Properties Group.

add

Ethan Allen

has retired from his law practice
with Wilkie Farr & Gallagher in
New York City.

dak

George H. Strouse Jr.

is enjoying retirement from his law
practice. He recently moved to
Windham Falls Estates in Groton,
Conn.

’

ae
George W. Lowry
recently enjoyed paying a visit to
classmate Bill Fishback in
Versailles, Ky. Lowry lives in
Clinton, Okla.

’
38
Robert M. Basile
and his wife celebrated their 50th

wedding anniversary last May. They
make their home in Sylvania, Ohio.

Col. John H. Shoaf

chaired the World War II V-J Day
reunion for veterans in the Houston
area to commemorate the 50th
anniversary of the end of the war.
Shoaf is retired and living in The
Woodlands, Texas.

SSL

J. McLean Stewart

is still with McKinsey & Co. in New
York City. He serves on the board of
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer
Center and has a son who is a sopho-
more at Hotchkiss School.

’

39
Hugh R. Thompson Jr.
is enjoying the luxury of retirement,
which affords him the time to write
prose, preen his garden, and visit
with his three daughters and their
children.

’

4]
Theodore A. Bruinsma
is the author of Foresight Capacity
(Libris Books), a projection of tech-
nological, cultural, and governmen-
tal trends into the year 2050.
Bruinsma lives in Rancho Palos
Verdes, Calif.

Kenneth Van de Water Jr.

and his wife, Mary Churchill, have
moved back to Lexington after 54
years.

Herbert M. Woodward
reports that he and his wife are
enjoying living part time on their
farm near Cashiers, N.C., and the
rest of the time in Charlotte.

’

42
Charles P. Didier
of Tryon, N.C., and his wife are
proud to have had three children
attend W&L. They presently have
two grandchildren attending.

Lee D. Parker

of Hampton, Va., is still doing some
engineering consultant work with
mortgage surveys and flood control
surveys. He enjoys hunting and
playing golf as time permits.

’
44
Earle P. Brown
was recently elected by the

University of Maryland System
Board of Regents as its secretary.

Richard L. Heard

retired from his post at the Dept. of
Labor in March after spending 48
years in both state and federal gov-
ernment, as well as the private sec-
tor. He lives in Arlington, Texas,
and looks forward to attending “old-
guard” functions in the future.

’

45
E. Dean Finney
has been inducted into the Vermont
Association of Broadcasters Hall of
Fame. He is now retired and lives in
Lexington, Va.

’

47
Justice William T. Brotherton
retired from the West Virginia
Supreme Court in August at age 69.
He wrote in a letter to the governor
that his heart attack last year left
him too weak to “fulfill the full

measure of his duties.” He will
work for the Charleston (W.Va.) law
firm of Spilman, Thomas & Battle
where his son, William T.
Brotherton III ’75, is a partner.

48L

H. Maurice Mitchell

was presented the Pulaski County
(Ark.) Association’s Vincent Foster
Jr. Outstanding Lawyer Award,
given annually to an attorney who
uses their time and talent for the
advancement of the legal profession.

’
50
Ramon F. Sanchez
recently turned 70 and is raising

Boer goats in a “declining market.”
He lives in Wing, Ala.

Edward K. Shelmerdine IV
and his wife have moved to Greens-
boro, N.C., to be near their children
and “some good golf courses.” He
recently retired from the Boeing Co.

Dr. Bruce F. Woodruff Jr.
received his Ph.D in metaphysics
from American International
University this past January.
Though he is semi-retired from
banking and real estate, he is a part-
ner in Geigerman & Woodruff
Associates, public relations consul-
tants. They are currently helping
find funding for Lee: Beyond the
Battles, a documentary being pro-
duced by Rubicon Productions of
Lexington, Va.

‘S0L

Justice William T. Brotherton
See °47.

’

51
Richard E. Whitson Jr.
and his wife, Doris, enjoyed yet
another Alumni College this past
January. They studied the Mayan
civilization on a tour of the Yucatan.

’

ae
The Hon. William G. Fuqua
was recently sworn in as an

Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court of Kentucky.

Dr. Henry 1. Willett Jr.
received the Distinguished
Alumnus Award from the Curry
School of Education at the Univer-
sity of Virginia this past April.

’

a5
John D. Heard
continues to enjoy his second career
(or, as his wife terms it, his “second
childhood”) as a Chevrolet and
Buick dealer in Terrell, Texas. He
entered this venture in 1987 after

 
 
  
 
 
     
  
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
    
  
  
  
     
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  

leaving the Houston oil and gac
business. While a recent Plea: a

trip to Monaco tempted him on |
retire like many of his colleague«
enjoys whathe’sdoing
The Rt. Rev. C.F. MeNute J
was recently named chief execs;
officer of the national E iscopal
Church and executive direc |
the Presiding Bishop’s Fund for
World Relief. He will
day-to day operations of the 2.5
lion member church from its hea,
quarters in New York City,

Samuel K. Patton ‘
is completing his term as town ;
supervisor of East Fishkill in
Duchess City, N.Y.

Rev. John B. Wheeler
recently retired from teaching you
children after 32 years. He enijc
serving part time at All Saints —
Episcopal Chapel in Annapolis —
Junction, Md. }

’

54
Dr. William B. Inabnet Jr.
was featured on his local CBS-T
affiliate for his new technique ¢
facial resurfacing with a laser. T
feature has been broadcast in ¢
markets in Florida, Louisiana,
South Carolina. |

Rev. J. Fletcher Lowe Jr. _
is currently serving as interim 1
of St. John’s Episcopal Church it
Richmond.

Sedgwick L. Moss 3
of Arlington, Va., has retired af
almost 40 years in the transportati
travel business. He keeps bus}
his hobbies and some volunteer
church work.

Richard P. Ross

is a vice president of North Sh
Bank in Milwaukee. He is alsoa
trustee of the Village of She
and is on several other charital
boards. ’

Glenn A. Scott a
and his wife, Carter, attended
son Allen’s graduation from W
June. They live in Norfolk, Va.

m4

Henry A. Turner Jr.

recently visited an old friend
W&L exchange student, Heit
Ortner, in Austria. Turner still”
enjoys teaching history at Yale.

‘SAL

Joseph P. Kilgore
has retired from active law f
He lives in Amherst, Va.

55 4
Bill Bartsch

recently returned home to nol
Virginia after two and a half ye

  

ya, Switzerland, where he

d up his United Nations

still keeps busy with
U.N. consulting work and two book
projects on the Pacific War.

Raymond D. Smith Jr.
recently retired as a managing direc-
ror after more than 36 years at
pankers Trust Co. in New York. In
his newfound spare time, he will be
writing a history of Tweedy, Browne
Co., which was founded in 1920. He
also reports chat “despite a total lack
of musical aptitude, he may also
make one more attempt to learn
how to play the five-string banjo.”

Gene

Earl S. Gillespie
received the National Federation of

High Schoo! Association’s Award of
Merit. He retired in 1993 after
spending 33 years with the Virginia
high school league and serving as
their executive director, and was
inducted to the Virginia High
School Hall of Fame in 1994,
Gillespie lives in Charlottesville.

56

Bill Grigg

of Chevy Chase, Md., is news direc-
tor of the U.S. Public Health Service
and the proud photographer and
promoter of Breast Cancer and You:
Bettering the Odds (Branden
Publishing) by his wife, Martha
Livdahl Grigg.

William B. Northrop

has been elected president of the
“Pennsylvania Newspaper Publishers

Association. Northrop is co-publisher

of the Observer-Reporter Daily Paper

in Washington, Pa.

Townsend (Tod) Shields

of Evergreen, Colo., has been elect-
ed to the board of directors of The
Timbers Metropolitan District.

’
57

John D. Marsh

just completed his first year as

mayor of Purcellville, Va. He also

represented the Leesburg Rotary

Club at the Rotary International

Convention in Taipei. Marsh sells

and manages stock on his horse
farm.

;
58

Scott Whipple

Writes a monthly column titled “Jazz

Notes” for Middlesex magazine. He

Covers upcoming musical events and

Spotlights Connecticut jazz musi-

“lans who are featured on his classic

#422 radio show in West Haven.

59

Robert D. Bohan
NOW lives in Chicago, where he con-

in

tinues to consult with the industrial
packaging and fastening industries.
He retired as chief operating officer
from Paslode Corp. in 1988, and
from Sevco Corp. in 1995.

Charles W. Cole Jr.

was recently elected by the
University of Maryland System
Board of Regents as its treasurer. He
lives in Owings Mills.

Dr. George N. Lockie

remains in the same pediatric part-
nership which has lasted 22 years.

He is proud to recently have been

made a grandfather for the second

time in as many years.

SYL

John D. Marsh
See °57.

60

Allen M. Ferguson

was been named chief executive of
Craigie Inc., a Richmond-based
investment banking firm, in June.
Ferguson joined Craigie in 1968 and
was named president and chief
operating officer in 1988.

61

Wickliffe Hollingshead
is the proud grandfather of twins!
He lives in Clarksboro, N.J.

Ronald L. Randel

was designated a Certified Commer-
cial Investment Manager upon com-
pleting the requisite training and
verifying real estate sales of more
than $10 million in the last five
years. He is a real estate broker in
Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas
and also works with the Donrey
Media Group in outdoor advertising.
He and his wife, Madge, reside in
Albuquerque, N.M.

Charles H. Smith Il

reports of his busy life as a father-in-
law. Daughter Lura married Read
Folline ’92 in February, son Tim
was married in September, and son
Charles will marry in January. His
son George and his wife provided
Charlie and Lottie with their first
grandchild in January. He and
Lottie live in Greenville, S.C.

62

James N. Applebaum

is manager of marketing and public
relations at the American College of
Nurse-Midwives. His position con-
tinues his experience in health and
medicine communications. He is
currently pursuing a degree in Johns
Hopkins University’s postgraduate
writing program. He and his wife,
Laurie Mufson, reside in Silver
Spring, Md.

Stephen R. Chernay

of Hopewell Junction, N.Y., contin-
ues to practice pediatrics and raise
and race thoroughbred horses. He is
an active member of the County
Board of Health and also serves as
legislative chairman of the County
Medical Society.

Robert D. Lewis

has joined Burris & Associates, a
small human resources, compensa-
tion, and benefits consulting firm as
vice president of human resources.
Lewis lives in Nashville.

63

Melvin W. Marvin

saw his musical, E/mer Gantry, at last
performed in Ford’s Theater. The
composer describes the musical, for
which he is the composer, as “big,
dark, obsessive, brooding,” filled
with “explosive stuff.” He hopes
that this third run of the show will
be a success.

’
64
Dr. Robert A. Paddock
of Naperville, IIl., reports that his
children are growing and thriving.
His oldest daughter, Tracy, gave
birth to her third child in June. Son
Mike is the assistant manager of a
Cleveland area country club, and his
youngest daughter, Holly, just grad-
uated from high school.

Leslie C. Rucker Jr.

joined David M. Griffith and
Associates as a manager and senior
consultant. He proudly reports that
his younger daughter is an All-
American swimmer at Kenyon, and
his older daughter, Susan °93, is in
graduate school at the University of
Maryland.

’
65

T. Patton Adams IV

was reappointed to a fifth term as

civilian aide to the Secretary of the

Army for South Carolina. He still

serves as president of his law firm,

Berry, Adams, Quackenbush &

Dunbar. Adams lives in Columbia

and is a former mayor of the city.

Jeffrey G. Conrad

was recently named president of
Larousse Kingfisher Chambers, a
publisher of children’s and refer-
ence books located in New York
City. He reports that his son David
(who was born in Lexington in 1965)
recently got married. Conrad and
his wife, Missy, live in Norwalk,
Conn.

Douglas V. Davis

is still working as a senior attorney/
advisor at the FCC in Washington,
D.C.—despite his recent move to
Pennsylvania. He travels regularly
for the FCC and the State Depart-

ment as senior negotiator for inter-
national telecommunications stan-
dards and treaties, often heading
U.S. delegations to the U.N. Inter-
national Telecommunication Union
in Geneva, Switzerland. He has no
plans to retire any time soon, but
fears that Congress may change his
expectations for him.

The Rev. Wildred B. Webb Jr.
recently moved to Shreveport, La.,
where he is interim pastor at First
Presbyterian Church.

66

Michael E. Lawrence

is now president of the Sea Pines
Co., a resort on Hilton Head Island,
S.C. His daughter, Catherine, is a
senior at W&L. Lawrence recently
enjoyed a trip to Houston for a visit
with classmate Jack Baber.

67

James D. Awad

manages $325 million for private
investors through his firm, Awad &
Associates in New York City. He
jogs four miles a day and has four
children, ages 10, 8, 5, and 2.

Dr. Richard §. Kurz

is professor and dean of the Public
Health School at Saint Louis
University in Missouri.

Edward B. Roberston Jr.

has been promoted at Ford of
Europe in Cologne, Germany. He is
now a member of the business plans
and strategies department and is
responsible for business and finan-
cial analyses and in-dealer processes
worldwide in Ford’s customer ser-
vice division—‘“a lot more work and
responsibility for the same pay.”

Dr. William H. Sledge

has been selected as the next master
of Calhoun College, one of Yale’s
residential colleges. The master
lives in the college with his or her
family and is responsible for all
dimensions of college life. Sledge is
professor of psychiatry at the Yale
School of Medicine.

68

E. Ellis Zahra Jr.

was recently named vice president
and general counsel of Winn-Dixie
Stores Inc. Zahra is presently the
managing partner of the
Jacksonville office of LeBoeuf,
Lamb, Greene & McRae. He lives
in Jacksonville with his wife,
Donna, and their four children.

69
Dr. Leon D. Katz

was named one of the “Top Docs in
Baltimore” by Ba/timore magazine.

41

Daughter Marcy is a senior at
George Washington University and
son Alex is a sophomore at Dart-
mouth. Lee and his wife, Gail, just
bought a vacation home on Mc.
Desert Island in Maine after spend-
ing 20 summers there.

Thomas P. Mitchell

has a private psychotherapy practice
in Pleasant Valley, N.Y. He has
been certified as a practicing mem-
ber of the Stepfamily Foundation of
New York City.

’
70
Dr. Robert L. Entzminger
has been on leave from his position
as chairman of the English depart-
ment at Rhodes College in order to
work on his book on 18th-century
poet and playwright Ben Johnson,
research made possible by an NEH
Fellowship for College Teachers.
He recently presented a paper at the
International Milton Symposium in
Wales and returned to Rhodes for
the fall semester.

’
71

Stephen H. Kerkam

opened a new bed and breakfast in

Linwood, Md., called Wood’s Gain.

All members of the W&L commu-

nity, he says, are welcome guests.

B. Christopher Lee

is a partner at Jacoby Donner, a
Philadelphia law firm with a concen-
tration in real estate law and com-
plex commercial and construction
litigation. When not practicing law,
he can be found playing golf at
Chester Valley Country Club, where
he serves as secretary of the board of
governors.

Calvert S. Whitehurst

is public affairs manager for the
Washington (D.C.) office of Textron
Inc.

ve

J. Charles Lee

has joined J.C. Bradford & Co.’s
Anderson (S.C.) office as an invest-
ment broker. He was previously an
associate vice president at
NationsBank.

William J. Modica

was awarded the Certified Environ-
mental Inspector distinction by the
Environmental Assessment Associ-
ation. He is a real estate broker with
Progress-Rush Co. in Roanoke and
also serves as the executive director
of the Blue Ridge Environmental
Network in southwestern Virginia.
Modica resides in Salem.

Edward G. (Ned) Moore

was recently elected to the boards of
Richmond Goodwill Industries, the
Ashland-Hanover Chamber of

42

Commerce, and the Hanover
Business Council. Moore is vice
president for development at
Randolph-Macon College.

H. Beach Vickers

was back in Lexington this summer
with a major role in G/ory Bound,
W&L theater professor Tom
Ziegler’s new musical which pre-
miered at Lime Kiln Theater in
July. Ethan Krupp 97, Chris Leva
*86, and Rob Mish ’76 were also
very much involved in the produc-
tion. Vickers is acting full-time
these days and has performed in
more than two dozen Shakespeare,
musical, opera, children’s theater,
farce, drama, and sideshows in five
states in just the past four years.

FOE

William T. Anderson

gave a presentation at NATO’s
Partnership for Peace Legal
Exercise Cooperative Advocate
1995 in Belgium. His topic was
“Law of Armed Conflict and
Interoperability During Combined
Military Operations.”

’
73
W. Patrick Hinely
served as a faculty guest at James
Madison University’s annual Arts &
Sciences symposium. He was a pan-
elist at the seminar on Jazz in
American Culture and exhibited
some of his jazz-related photographs
in JMU’s New Image Gallery. He
still works as university photograph-
er for Washington and Lee and lives
in Lexington with his wife, Beedle,
and their two daughters.

Robert E. Levy

has become a partner in the law firm
of Scarinci & Hollenbeck in Secau-
cus, N.J. He is a certified criminal
trial attorney and manages the firm’s
litigation group. Prior to joining the
law firm of counsel, he worked in
the New Jersey Division of Criminal
Justice. Levy resides in Pennington.

Richard H. Middleton Jr.
was re-elected treasurer of the
Association of Trial Lawyers of
America. He is a partner with the
Atlanta law firm of Middleton,
Mixson, Orr & Adams.

74

Theodore A. Bauer

has been named general chairman of
the 1998 World Lacrosse Champion-
ship to be held in Baltimore. He is
also chairman of the NCAA men’s
All-American selection committee.

H. Allen Davis

graduated from Virginia Common-
wealth University with a master’s
degree in social work last May.

Davis works for Rockbridge Area
Community Services as a substance
abuse counselor and emergency ser-
vices clinician and lives in Lexing-
ton with his wife, Mary Totin, and
their two children.

Dr. Richard 8. McCain

is an orthopedic surgeon in
Columbia, S.C., where he lives with
his wife, Claudia, and their two chil-
dren, Sara Ann and Richard.

74L

Beverly H. Wood

transferred to Winston-Salem, N.C.,
with Wachovia after eight years in
Atlanta. He is a product manager for
deferred compensation programs for
which Wachovia serves as trustee.

’
75

Taylor M. Cole

has been promoted to senior vice

president and area manager for the

Blue Ridge region at Central

Fidelity Bank. He lives in Blacks-

burg, Va., and stays busy with

numerous Civic organizations.

Mark X. Diverio

of Lawrenceville, N.J., is now vice
president in the equity investment
area of one of the world’s largest
banks, Union Bank of Switzerland,
after six years with Lehman
Brothers and five years with Merrill
Lynch. His primary responsibility
lies in paper and forest products as
well as the packaging industries.

Richard P. Rogers Jr.

has been named director of elec-
tronic communications at Radford
University. Rogers joined Radford
as sports information director in
1978. He and his wife, Kim, reside
in Christiansburg, Va.

VOL

Douglas V. Davis
See ’65.

M. Steven LaCroix

is NOW an associate counsel for
Interim Services Inc. He and his
family have relocated to Fort
Lauderdale, Fla., from Dallas.

The Hon. Perry R. Thompson
has been appointed circuit judge at-
large in the 18th judicial circuit in
DuPage County by the Illinois
Supreme Court. Before his appoint-
ment, he served as presiding judge
of the circuit’s misdemeanor/traffic
division.

’
76

Robert L. Amsler Jr.

has completed 10 years of service

with Central Fidelity National Bank

in Manassas, Va. He recently trav-
eled to Chile on a church mission

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 

trip where the Spanish ae
by Professors Barritt and Wil;
came in handy.

David R. Braun
joined Smith Barney Inc. in

Minneapolis as vice President of
estate and business planning,

Alan P. Dozier

has been named a corporate yj
president of Bausch & Lomb j in
‘Tampa, Fla. He will continue hj
responsibilities as head of the
Bausch & Lomb ophthalmic rp
maceutical business.

Richard A. Hooker
got together with fellow law cl}.
mates at this year’s Kentucky De
in May. Hooker, Hiram Ely, and —
Steve McGraw took their wives
reports that “the women won som,
money and the men lost their _
shirts.” He still practices law
Varnum, Riddering, Schmidt ga
Howlett and lives in
Mich., with his wife, Jan.

a3

Maj. William T. Palfrey
is taking an early retirement fror
the Air Force and trying his hanc
job-hunting. He lives in Lynn
Haven, Fla. oe

76]. 1

Richard H. Middleton Jr.
See °73. =

’
77
Michael J. Burns ‘
delivered a paper at an internatic
telecommunications conference in
Melbourne, Australia, as part of '
continuing work for AT&T Bell —
Laboratories in Holmdel, a 7
committed bicyclist, he comm
from his Middletown (N.J.) h
work every day and rides in se
centuries (100-mile organized ric
each year. we e

Mr. William E. Craver HI
is a partner with the law firmof
Davis & Craver. The firm practic
general business and concentra
education law, representing 25
school districts. He and his wife

Elizabeth, now have a third son, .
John Everett, who joins brothers _
Will and Sam.

<<

sg

  
    
   
   
   
        
 
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  

J
Craig Hamilton

now works as a financial consult
with the private client group at —
Merrill Lynch in Jacksonville
five years with AT&T. He report
that “life’s a beach” in Ponte Vee
Fla., with his wife, Susan.

Robert F. Jungman
is now a shareholder in the cout
west regional office of Compen- —
sation Resource Group Inc., 4
national executive compensation
and benefit consulting firm. He —
lives in Houston.

 

Bacova president Ben Johns ’78 (seated, second from left) and his household accessories hierarchy have designs on more than mats and rugs.

lhe Check s in the Mailbox

In 1981, when former Homestead tennis pros Ben Johns ’78
and Patrick Haynes purchased the Bacova Guild Ltd. from New
Jersey industrialist Malcolm Hirsh °45, the Bath County (Va.)-
based household accessories maker had 20 employees and annual
sales of $500,000 for its outdoorsy-themed line of laminated and
personalized fiberglass wares, such as mailboxes and ice buckets.
It was a nice little cottage industry, located literally in a group of
cottages (the remnants of a 1920s lumber town bought by Hirsh
lock, stock, and church house in 1957—he created Bacova eight
years later as a means of keeping the cottages occupied).

Johns and Haynes turned a boutique into a behemoth—one
that sells to 86 of the top 100 retailers in the United States,
according to the trade publication LDB Interior Textiles. ‘Today,
Bacova has annual sales of $40 million, employs some 500 people,
and was bought earlier this year for an undisclosed sum by textile
titan Burlington Industries. Johns and Haynes will stay on as pres-
ident and chief executive, respectively, for at least eight years.
That’s an unusually long time for such acquisitions, but Johns
views that as Burlington’s commitment to retaining the company’s
foots in beautiful but remote Bath County, a commitment he
takes very seriously. “It was one of the elements in our deal with
Malcolm,” he explains, “and we feel very strongly about the jobs
We've created. We want to do it right.”

Johns, who majored in commerce in addition to playing tennis
at W&L (he was inducted into the Athletic Hall of Fame in 1992),
attributes Bacova’s success to “marketing on the run, listening to
your customers, getting a feel, and matching it up with your capi-
tal.” He and Haynes quickly consolidated their niche in the per-
Sonalized mailbox market, selling to upscale gift shops and catalog
fetailers such as L.L. Bean and Orvis. And in a stroke of market-
iIN& genius—because anyone remotely familiar with the company

as heard this story—they gave free mailboxes to all 5,000 resi-

dents of Bath County. But their big break came when they entered
another market just as it was on the threshold of expansion.

In a word: doormats. “Our designs were what were selling the
product,” Johns recalls, “so our game plan early on was to apply
these designs to a lot of products.” Inexpensive to produce, easy
to personalize, and marketed as companion pieces to the mailbox-
es, "the mats were a home run,” Johns says. “Sales just mush-
roomed.” Doormat sales rocketed from 13,000 in 1983 to 180,000
in 1985, and as the company attracted the attention of large retail-
ers such as Target Stores that were eager for large quantities of
attractive goods at low prices, Bacova’s operations expanded from
a single manufacturing facility in Bath County to a distribution
center in nearby Millboro, to a larger manufacturing facility down
in carpet capital Dalton, Ga. Company revenues quadrupled from
$5 million in 1985 to $20 million by 1987.

Such phenomenal growth did not come without growing pains.
In the aftermath of the Burlington acquisition, the good news for
Virginia is that the Dalton plant will close and a new $10 million
manufacturing and distribution facility is being built in adjacent
Alleghany County, bringing with it some 500 jobs. The bad news
is that 170 of those jobs will come from the company’s Bath
County namesake. While reducing operations for the county’s sec-
ond-largest employer nearly by half, Johns insists that the core
headquarters, management, and design jobs will remain.

Bacova’s future seems secure as a purveyor of decorative tex-
tiles in five business segments: the mat and rug lines (which now
constitute 80 percent of sales), plus kitchen and bath accessories,
and the ever-reliable mailboxes. For now, Johns is happy to con-
tinue with a job he still enjoys. “We could have sold and walked out
to the sailboat in Barbados,” he told the Richmond Times-Dispatch.
Instead, he’s keeping the welcome mat out a little longer: “We
want to see how big this thing can get.” —By Wi/liam Cocke ’82

James N. Wohlfarth

is working for HR Textron Inc. and
living in Valencia, Calif., with his
wife and three children. He coaches
youth sports and keeps busy with
Cub Scouts and church activities.

77L

The Hon. Joseph E. Kane

was sworn in as a New Jersey
Superior Court Judge on Aug. 11.
He is the first blind Superior Court
Judge in the state.

78

A. Michael Airheart

has been transferred to Charlotte
from Tampa by NationsBank. He
and his wife, Susan, have adopted
two children.

Alexander H. Bishop IV
teaches social studies in the middle
school at Glenelg Country School in
Glenelg, Md. He is also the varsity
soccer coach and proudly reports
that last year’s team had its best
record in the school’s history.

Parke L. Bradley

is a marketing and relationship man-
ager with J.P. Morgan Investment
Management Inc. in London
responsible for central bank and
government agency clients in the
Middle East, Africa, and parts of
southeast Asia. He lives in Amberly,
West Sussex, with his wife,
Caroline, and their three children.

William K. Burton

manages the Richmond corporate
finance office of NationsBank. He
and his wife, Gail, live there with
their two daughters, Emily and
Caroline.

David G. Franklin

has been named president and chief
executive officer of Enterprise
Florida Capital Partnership Inc. in
Orlando, Fla.

Mark W. Hampton

has been promoted to lieutenant
colonel in the Missouri Army
National Guard. He has taken com-
mand of the 135th Signal Battalion
in St. Joseph.

7TSL

Jack D. Kopald

recently moved to Nashville and is

working for the Tennessee Depart-
ment of Revenue as assistant com-

missioner and general counsel.

9

Richard B. Makowv

continues to work as an attorney in
Tokyo for a Japanese law firm. He
travels throughout Asia in his free
time.

Gary J. Podesta

is a physical therapist in Salinas,
Calif., after 13 years as head lacrosse
coach at Santa Clara University.

Ae

Barry J. Plunkett 111

of Arlington, Va., has been selected
as deputy assistant general counsel
in research, development, and ac-
quisition in the Dept. of the Navy.

SOL

Joan M. Gardner

is director of state services at Blue
Cross and Blue Shield in Washing-
ton, D.C.

’
S]
Raymond K. Best
of Buettelborn, Germany, manager
of European operations for Buchart-
Horn Inc. of York, Pa., was recently
named Young Engineer of the Year
by the Pennsylvania Society of
Professional Engineers. After gradu-
ating from W&L, Best received a
master’s in engineering from Penn
State University. He leads an inter-
national staff located at offices in
Germany and Turkey.

Claude B. (Chip) Colonna Jr.
continues to work as international
marketing manager for Kraft Foods.
Recent work has taken him to
China, Japan, Korea, India,
Germany, Greece, Italy and Brazil.

Michael J. Farrand

produced and directed his new play,
Heaven and Hell, an international
farce set in a London pub. It pre-
miered at Stages Repertory Theatre
in Houston and he hopes to take it
to other cities.

Alfred R. Hintz

is still managing partner at the 12-
member law firm of O’Connor,
O’Connor, Hintz & Deveney in
Garden City, N.Y. He and his wife,
Libby, live with their three children
in Sayville.

Oliver P. Newberry Ill

of Fort Worth, Texas, recently
merged his company to become a
partner with the Mohr Corp., a
nationwide corporate tenant repre-
senting office and industrial users.

He and his family welcomed a son,
Oliver IV, last October.

Russell Z. Plowden

is a partner in the law firm of
Nelson Mullins Riley &
Scarborough in Greenville, S.C.,
where he specializes in employee
benefits. He and his wife, Sally,
have two daughters, Caroline and
Grace.

George A. Polizos

is general manager of Regent
Products, a national distributor of
industrial diamond tools and sup-
plies for the stone fabrication and
restoration markets in Virginia
Beach.

‘SO1L

Michael E. Bongiorno

has been selected to fill the position
of Rockland County (N.Y.) district
attorney. He had been an assistant
D.A. in the Manhattan District
Attorney’s Office for 14 years.

Maj. Malinda E. Dunn
recently moved to Fort Leaven-
worth, Kan., to attend the Army
Command and General Staff
College. She had just finished a
four-year tour at Fort Bragg, N.C.

John L. File

is an assistant U.S. attorney in
Charleston, W.Va. He and his wife,
Lee, live in Beckley with their
daughters, Haley and Audrey .

Nancy W. Williams

is an attorney with the Army Corps
of Engineers, Transatlantic division.
She recently received the Joseph W.
Kimbel Award from the Corps for
future legal achievement. She lives
with her family in Inwood, W.Va.

’
S52

Stephenson B. Andrews

has established a partnership in

London which acquired exclusive

rights to use architectural drawings

from the Academy of Art in St.

Petersburg, Russia, as part of a 1996

tour of U.S. museum exhibitions.

James D. Brockelman

was recently promoted to senior vice
president, national sales manager for
401(k) programs with Boston-based
Putnam Investments. He lives in
Boxford, Mass.

John W. Martin

was named president of Siddal,
Matus & Coughter, the largest inde-
pendently owned advertising and
public relations firm in Virginia. He
lives in Richmond with his wife,
Susan, and their three children.

Kelly J. Niernberger

was promoted to major in the Army
Reserve assigned to Fort Meade,
Md. He is human resources coor-
dinator for the Edison Electric
Institute and resides in Alexandria,
Va., with his wife, Marie.

James L. Shepherd

was promoted to vice president and
assistant general counsel of
American National Power Inc., a
subsidiary of National Power PLC
of the U.K. He lives in Houston.

’
S2L

Linda Davis Frith

was recently appointed to a one-yes

term as chair of the Virginia Stare _

Bar Standing Committee on Lawve

Discipline. She is a partner With the

Roanoke law firm of Gen Locke
Rakes & Moore. —

Paul V. Gerlach
has been named associate director ¢
the Securities and Exchange Com.
mission’s enforcement division,
will be responsible for supervising
the division’s investigations of _
financial reporting and disclosure, |
insider trading and manipulation.

He resides in Washington with his
wife, Katherine. >

William C. Nicholson
is general counsel for the Indiana -
State Emergency Management —
Agency and the Indiana Depart-
ment of Fire and Building Service
He lives in Indianapolis.

’

S3
Michael M. Gregory a
lives in Williamsburg, Va., where he
is employed by REMSA Inc. asa
consultant to the Army Training and
Doctrine Command at Fort Monroe.
He holds the position of legacy pro- _
gram coordinator.

    
 
  
     
    
 
   
   
   
  
  
    
   
  
    
   
  
  
   
   
   
    
   
  

~~

Capt. Newton P. Kendrick
received his MBA from the

University of Virginia’s Darden
School of Business.

H. Powell Starks
was named partner of the Louisville
firm of Brown, Todd & Heyburn. —
He will continue to practice in its
corporate section as a member of the
business acquisitions practice and
international services groups. J

tie
os
4
-

John Tunney ak
is a chief financial officer with 5
GISCO, a leading developer of doc-
ument imaging software. He lives in
Baltimore with his wife, Leslie, en a
Jake, and daughter Mae. : 4

’ e
83L

The Hon. Marylouise Lucchi-McCloud_

of Fair Lawn, N.J., has been nomi-

nated to a second term as adminis-
trative law judge.

Michael E. Nogay ia
was appointed special prosecutor In —
a recent Wheeling (W.Va.) felony
murder case. The jury returned a
first-degree murder verdict aftera
week-long trial. ’

:

Pamela Ryan
is an attorney with the law firm of
Nixon, Hargrave, Devans & ae
in Rochester, N.Y., where she prac
tices in the areas of municipal law a
and public finance. She has two

 

children, Shannon Elizabeth
Wright, |, and Quinn, 5.

7’ S4
Kevin Y. Berger
began a three-year term on the
board of trustees for Ebenezer
United Methodist Church in
Newark, Del.

John W. Dindinger ii

is a partner in Peeler’s of Virginia, a
five-state brokerage engaged in
cooperative promotions and fund-
raising with youth-oriented non-
profit organizations. He has a son,
John IV, and lives in Bridgewater.

Alfred J. Gannon, Jr.
is a producer for a French-American

TV production company in Paris.

Charles M. (Chad) Plumly II
of Atlanta finished 1994 as the No. 6
squash player in the country—his
first national ranking. He enjoyed
seeing several of his classmates at
the U.S. National Tournament in
Baltimore last fall.

{ja

Marion E. Wood Ill
has been elected president of the

| associate board of the Illinois chap-
ter of the Arthritis Foundation. He
continues to live in Chicago, work
for Wachovia Corporate Services,
and is a diehard Cubs fanatic.

S4L

Thomas B. Shepherd Ill

/tecently completed his terms as
chairman of the Mississippi State
Bar’s business Law section and as
state treasurer of the Miss. affiliate
of the American Heart Association.
He also coaches his sons in baseball,
soccer, and basketball as his wife,
Mary Scott, cheers them on.

’
65

John W. Herndon III

just finished two years as an admin-

istrative assistant for the men’s bas-
ketball team at Rice University.

 

Michael W. Hudson

won the 1995 Investment Company
Institute/American University jour-
nalism award for excellence in per-
sonal finance reporting. He also
received honorable mentions in the
1995 James Aronson Awards for
Social Justice Journalism. He is a
Staff writer for The Roanoke Times.

ele O. Jackson
4s formed a communications man-
agement firm in Atlanta, Jackson
Spalding Ledlie, He and his two
Partners resigned from Manning

lvage & Lee to create the new
firm,

 

Brian P. O’Riordan
orks for Audio Visual Headquar-

 

ters as director of audiovisual ser-
vices for Red Lion Hotel in
Sacramento, Calif.

Gordon S. Ogden

is a director at CB Commercial, a
commercial real estate firm in New
York City.

Robert A. Schlegel

was selected for a promotion in the
Navy and is now a lieutenant com-
mander. He is spending a six-month
deployment aboard the USS Scott.

‘OSL

Cynthia L. Jewett

has left the law firm of Quarles and
Brady to join the office of general
counsel at Arizona State University.
Her primary areas of practice contin-
ue to be employment and education
law. She lives in Phoenix.

The Hon. William P. Johnson
was recently appointed district
judge for the Fifth Judicial District
of New Mexico by Gov. Gary
Johnson. At age 36, he is the
youngest district judge in the state.
Johnson was previously a partner in
Hinkle, Cox, Eaton, Coffield &
Hensley where he practiced oil and
gas, bankruptcy and commercial liti-
gation. The keynote speaker at
Johnson’s swearing-in ceremony was
his brother, John C. Johnson ’91L,
an associate with Gentry, Locke,
Rakes & Moore in Roanoke.
Johnson and his wife, Becky ’85L,
reside in Roswell, N.M.

Stuart R. Kaplan

has been named partner in one of
Pittsburgh’s largest law firms,
Eckert Seamans Cherin & Mellott.

Theresa L. Markley

has been hired as director of admin-
istration and general counsel by
Continental Accounts Management,
which provides collections, credit
reporting, and bookkeeping services.

Cheryl Boggs Walsh's
marketing and graphic design busi-
ness, Growth Strategies Group,
recently won several design awards
for a promotion for the Greater
Phoenix Economic Council. She
lives in Phoenix with her husband,
Jeff, and their two children.

’
SO

Christen A. Alevizatos

is in his last year of urologic surgical

training as chief surgeon. He lives in

Pittsburgh and plans to move back

to the Baltimore area next July.

Richard P. (Pat) Ferguson

has been promoted to president and
general manager of Ferguson
Enterprises in Lynchburg, Va.,
where he lives with his wife, Alycia,
and their two children.

Julian Hennig Ill
is an attorney with Nexsen Pruet
Jacobs & Pollard in Columbia, S.C.

Joseph E. Vidunas

has completed his first year of grad-
uate study in civil engineering at the
University of Virginia. He resides in
Charlottesville and is employed by
the Va. Dept. of Transportation.

C. Harris White

and his wife have moved to Denver,
Colo., where he is assistant vice pres-
ident of Sage Hospitality Resources,
a firm specializing in management
and consulting for the hotel industry.

SOL

Dana J. Bolton

recently joined the legal department
of Marsh & McLennan Cos. in New
York City. As assistant counsel, he
works primarily with the company’s
subsidiary, Mercer Management
Consulting.

Bruce L. Castor Jr.

received the Trial Award from the
Association of Government Attor-
neys in Capital Litigation in Las
Vegas in August. He is first assistant
district attorney in Montgomery
County, Pa., where he has been a
prosecutor since 1986. Castor lives
in Franconia Township with his
wife, Elizabeth, and their two chil-
dren.

Barbara Morris Zoccola

was elected president of the young
lawyer’s division of the Tennessee
Bar Association for 1995-1996.

’
S7

Chris Carter

moved to Florence, S.C., where he

is now dean of the Upper School at

Byrnes Academy. He continues to

teach A.P. English and coach cross-

country.

Scott J. Ferrell

is now a Capitol Hill photographer
for the Congressional Quarterly Weekly
Report after seven years with the
Fauquier Democrat in Warrenton, Va.
He commutes daily to Washington
from Warrenton, where he lives with
his wife, Leslie, and their sons, Coy,
3, and Ramey, 1.

Timothy G. McMahon

and his wife, Anne Coulling, are in
Dublin, Ireland, where McMahon is
continuing his doctorate research in
Irish studies.

Judith Ringland Outland

lives in Herndon, Va., with her hus-
band, Jim, and their son, Matthew.
She reports that she enjoys staying
at home with the baby.

Kenneth E. Randby
works in sales and marketing for
Pompanette Inc., a manufacturer of

marine hardware. He lives in
Hanover, N.H.

N. Turner Simkins

of Atlanta was promoted to vice
president and project manager of
the Country Club of the South. He
was formerly assistant vice president
of Jack Nicklaus Development Corp.
of Georgia and marketing manager
of Country Club of the South.

Paul J. Smith

is an adjunct fellow with Pacific
Forum/CSIS specializing in interna-
tional migration. His most recent
research has focused on the Chinese
emigration phenomenon. He recent-
ly published a working paper for the
Council on Foreign Relations Asia
Project titled “Asia’s Economic
Transformation and its Impact on
Intraregional Labor Migration.”
Smith lives in Honolulu.

Michael F. Wacht

was declared a candidate for ordina-
tion at the First United Methodist
Church in St. Cloud, Fla. He is cur-
rently attending Candler School of
Theology at Emory University in
Atlanta.

’
SS

Mark L. Farley

joined the legal department of the

Aristech Corp., where he will advise

the corporation on environmental

regulatory matters.

G. Stuart Geisel

works for Silverlake Realty, a real
estate development firm in Deer
Valley, Utah. He encourages any
westward travelers to look him up.

S. Maverick Noble

was awarded his MAI (Member of
the Appraisal Institute) real estate
appraisal designation in August 1994
and was named vice president of
Noble & Associates Inc. in San
Antonio, Texas. He works there
with his brother, company president
Charles Noble °78.

James M. Rallo

graduated from the University of
Maryland’s MBA program in May
and has joined Alex. Brown in
Baltimore as an associate in its
investment banking group.

S. Garth Schulz

recently completed his first year of
business school at the University of
San Francisco. While there is a
“solid” group of W&L alumni in the
Bay Area, he says, they always wel-
come migrants and visitors.

Brian W. Walker

was recently promoted to senior
manager in the manufacturing,
retailing, and distribution line of
business at the Big Six accounting
firm of KPMG Peat Marwick. He
resides in Hoboken, N.].

Andrew W. White

has moved to Richmond with his
wife, Jill, and is practicing corporate
law, tax, and estate planning with
LeClair, Ryan, Joynes, Epps &
Framme.

P. Christian Wiman

is a Dobie-Paisano Literary Fellow
sponsored by the University of
Texas and the Texas Institute of
Letters. He spent six months living
on J. Frank Dobie’s Paisano Ranch
southwest of Austin, where he
wrote poetry and received a stipend
and free rent.

SSL

Robert C. Muth

was recently named partner with
James, McElroy & Diehl, the ninth
largest law firm in Charlotte.

H. Powell Starks
See °83.

’

8Y
Stephen R. Chance
graduated last June from Georgia
State University, where he earned
both a law degree and an MBA
degree. He is now working as an
associate with Long, Weinberg,
Ansley & Wheeler in Atlanta where
he concentrates in medical and hos-
pital malpractice defense.

Elizabeth A. Cummins

is pursuing a master’s in education
in counseling at Peabody College,
Vanderbilt University. She will
graduate next May.

John W. Deighan

is a software engineer with
Lockheed Martin’s astronautics
division in Littleton, Colo. He is
working toward a master’s in soft-
ware engineering at the University
of Colorado as well.

Vance E. Drawdy

is a senior associate at Haynsworth,
Baldwin, Johnson & Greaves in the
environmental law section. He and
his wife, Katherine "90, are still liv-
ing in Greenville, S.C.

Frederick W. (Fritz) Lake Ill
graduated first in his class of 420
from the University of Texas at
Austin’s Graduate School of
Business. Lake has joined the glob-
al management consulting firm of
McKinsey & Co. as an associate in
its Dallas office.

G. Manuel Loupassi

is still working as an assistant com-
monwealth’s attorney in Richmond.
He and some classmates met up in
January at Andrew Baur’s wedding
in Little Rock, Ark.

Dr. Michael R. Magoline
is a resident in orthopedic surgery in
Akron, Ohio, where he lives with

his wife, Susan, and their dog,
Elmo.

S. Hughes Melton

was one of 20 recipients nationwide
of a $2,000 award from the
American Academy of Family
Physicians. The award will help
finance his graduate medical train-
ing in family practice. He is current-
ly a resident at the University of
Virginia Health Sciences Center.
He received his medical degree
from UVa’s School of Medicine in
1993.

Donald C. Schaeffer

is enrolled in Fuqua School of
Business at Duke University. He
had been executive director of the
Japan-America Society of Kentucky
since August 1991. He and his wife
Lesley, are living in Durham, N.C.

Stephanie L. Smith

received a Samuel H. Kress
Founda-tion fellowship in art histo-
ry to conduct dissertation research
at the Bibliotheca Hertziana in
Rome for two years through
September 1997. She also received
a J. William Fulbright Award for dis-
sertation research in Rome and a
Deutscher Akademischer
Anstanchdienst grant for disserta-
tion research in Germany.

Maryanne L. White

recently accepted a position with
1-2-3 Therapy-Speech Center as
director of physical therapy services.
She continues to divide her clinical
practice time between pediatrics
and geriatrics. She still lives in
Winston-Salem, N.C., with her hus-
band, Rob, and their son, Harrison.

SIL

Nora L. Liggett

recently joined the Nashville law
firm of Waller Lansden Dortch and
Davis as an associate in the firm’s
health-care practice group.

’

90
James T. Busenlener
recently changed law firms to prac-
tice in the insurance subrogation
section of Hughes, Watters &
Askanase in Houston.

Stephanie J. DeMoura
received an MBA degree from the
University of Virginia’s Darden
School of Business.

Gary O. Giles

has moved to Hanover, N.H., where
he will pursue an MBA at the Tuck
School of Business at Dartmouth
College.

Patrick W. Gochar

recently graduated from the
University of Maryland Dental
School. He is currently serving a

general practice residency at the
University of Maryland Hospital in
Baltimore.

Ashley Hayes

moved from New York City to
Miami where she joined Party and
Event Productions. The company
organizes elaborate events from
beginning to end, such as corporate
meetings and theme parties.

Mary Alice McMorrow

recently graduated from the
University of Virginia’s Darden
Graduate School of Business
Administration. She was a recipient
of the C. Stewart Sheppard
Distinguished Service Award. She
will assume a position in the catego-
ry management group with General
Mills Inc. in Los Angeles.

David A. Robyak

has left the law firm of Jackson &
Campbell in Washington D.C., to
attend the University of Hawaii in
Honolulu on a four-year scholarship
to study for his master’s and doctor-
ate in Asian history.

Dana D. Stiles

graduated from the Eastern
Tennessee State University Quillen
College of Medicine in May. She
will enter a residency in psychiatry
at the Bowman Gray/North Carolina
Baptist Hospital in Winston-Salem.

Brian Tanis

recently left his job at Dun &
Bradstreet to enter the MBA pro-
gram at the University of Michigan.

Nelson S. Teague

finished law school at the University
of Richmond and passed the
Virginia State Bar in February. He is
now working for the office of gener-
al counsel at Circuit City Stores.

GOL

Scot A. Duvall

is in his fifth year of law practice at
Stites & Harbison in Louisville, Ky.,
where he lives with his wife, Juli.

Brian A. Sankey

recently sold his interest in the
Morgan Agency and set out on his
own. He founded Saxon Model and
Talent in Orange County, Calif. He
counts Versace, Armani, Chanel,
Macy’s, and International Male
among his top clients and hopes to
build Saxon “into a major west coast
powerhouse.”

’

9]
Cecily Tynan Badger
has joined WPVI-TYV, the ABC affil-
iate in Philadelphia, as the weekend
weather anchor for “Action News.”
She was previously weather and
news anchor for the ABC affiliate in
Las Vegas.

 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
  

David S. Bennett |
is pursuing a graduate degree in _
engineering mathematics at Lehj
University in Bethlehem, Pa,
Lee O. Butterfield
graduated from the University of

Virginia School of Medicine in Ma
and will do his residency in interns
medicine at Yale University. He —
plans to specialize in cardiology,

D. Franklin Daniels Jr.
and Lewis Perkins 93 are foundin
members of the board of directors
the Bel Canto Society, the Atlanta.
Opera’s young patrons’ society,
Daniels recently visited classmate
John Neslage in Mexico.

John A. Ebner 4
received his MBA from the Dare
School of Business at the Universi
of Virginia in May. He is now worl
ing in the corporate finance dep
ment of J.P. Morgan in New Yor

C. Caldwell Hart Jr.
was recently promoted to senior
communications associate at the

Vanguard Group of Investment Ci
He lives in Gulph Mills, Pa.

Linsley M. Hunt
graduated with an MBA degree
from the University of Texas at
Austin’s Graduate School of
Business last May. After a world ©
tour including Greece, Alaska,
Hawaii, and Austria, she joined —
McKinsey & Co. as an associ
its Chicago office.

y

£
i

JuLee A. Messerich
has taken a job as a technical sup
port engineer at Peer Logic, a sc
ware company in San Francisco.

John E. Neslage Il
works for Wolmex Beverage Co.
Irapuato, Guanajuato, Mexico. —
Neslage graduated from the Uni
sity of Houston Law Center last
year and is a member of the Te:

State Bar. 1

Tomas L. Perez
is a product development engine
for Tredegar Industries in T
Haute, Ind.

Paige P. Powell |
is now team manager for experi-
enced-hire recruiting for Anderse
Consulting in Washington, D.C.

Thomas B. Reems
is the head of the Russian sectic
the Center for Democracy in
Washington, D.C.

Capt. Loretta L. Vandenber,
was promoted in May and is an —
instructor at the Naval Commut
cations School in Newport, R.I. —

Sharon A. Widmayer
and her husband, Alan Thomps¢
have moved to Vienna, Austria,
where she will be studying wn!

ina second language and teaching in
a Austrian high school on a
Fulbright scholarship and teaching

gssistantsh Ip.

OIL

william L. Geary

has moved from New Orleans to
Washington, D.C., where he has
raken a position as associate patent
counsel with Samsung Electronics.
He will be dividing his time
between Washington and Korea, but
plans frequent visits to New Orleans
for crawfish, spicy food, and hot jazz.

C. Vaughan Gibson

practices law in the Washington
(D.C.) office of Ballard Spahr
Andrews & Ingersoll.

John B. Rodgers

joined the Washington (D.C.) law
firm of O’Brien, Birney & Butler
jast May where he specializes in
associations law. He reports that he
frequently runs into fellow alumni
in and around Arlington, Va.

92

Kimberly A. Bishop

is spending her third year in New
York City and lives with classmate
Elizabeth Fox. They are near sever-
al other classmates including Gabrey
Croft, Devon McCallister, and
Muriel Foster. Bishop is a junior
trader on the government bond desk
at Union Bank of Switzerland.

‘James O. Deegear IV
received his master’s degree in
school psychology from Trinity
University in his hometown of San
Antonio, Texas.

Wiemi A. Douoguih

just completed his second year of
medical school at the Medical
College of Virginia in Richmond.

Andrew A. Finkbeiner

recently returned from his two-year
term in the Peace Corps. After tak-
ing a break over the summer, he is
Pursuing a medical degree at the
University of Arkansas.

John A. Flippen
left his job at Upper Deck Co. in
San Diego to start his first year of

law school at Vanderbilt University
in Nashville.

David J. Freed
received a J.D. degree from the
ickinson School of Law in June.

Stephen L. Fugitte

om been promoted to managing

_ editor in the Lexington (Ky.)

ee of the Daily Racing Form after
© Years with the company.

Jay Gabbard
Ves in Myrtle Beach, S.C., where
© Provides in-home therapeutic

a

treatment for victims and perpetra-
tors of physical, spousal, and sexual
abuse as well as child neglect.

Michael J. Gray

is an account manager and systems
developer for VISTA Systems, Inc.,
a computer company specializing in
database management and direct
mail operations. He just bought his
first home in Germantown, Md.

Emily G. Hoard

has been moved and promoted to
executive branch manager for the
Fort Collins (Colo.) branch of
Transamerica Financial Services.
She and her husband, Mike, just
bought a home and acquired a new
Chow for the yard.

Thomas S. Mayer

is working towards a doctorate in
behavioral neuroscience at Ameri-
can University. His wife, Laura
Howard °93, is in her first year of
Georgetown’s MBA program. The
couple lives in Arlington, Va.

Toby D. McCoy

completed law school at W&L this
past May, took the W.Va. bar exam
in July, and is now attending the
Army’s Judge Advocate General’s
basic course in Charlottesville, Va.
Upon completion of the three-
month course, Toby and his wife,
Deborah, will be stationed together
at Fort Gordon, Ga.

R. Lee Parker Ill

recently moved back to his home-
town of Richmond and now works
in the computer center at the
University of Richmond. He’s also
playing in a local band “for fun.”

Michael G. Patrick

continues to work in Atlanta as a
production assistant on national TV
commercials and music videos as
well as independent film projects.
He hopes to move to Los Angeles
after the 1996 Olympic Games.

Jacob M. (Jay) Plotkin

is working as one-third of the editor-
ial staff of The Tidewater Review, a
weekly in West Point, Va.

John G. (Slimy) Simonton

has relocated to Denver, Colo., and
is working for a computer sales and
leasing company called Peak Re-
sources Inc., run by J. Gregory
Barrow °87.

David P. Stevens

graduated from Cumberland School
of Law in Birmingham and is now a
judical clerk with the Chief Justice
of the Alabama Supreme Court in
Montgomery.

Roger P. Sullivan

is currently starring in Listen to the
River at the Silver Dollar Opera
House in Branson, Mo., after com-
pleting a year-long musical tour. He

will be moving to New York in
January to pursue his acting career.

Elizabeth L. Talkington

is enrolled in the MBA program at
the Amos Tuck School at Dart-
mouth College. She was human
resources manager at B.F. Goodrich
Aerospace in Burlington, Vt.

Caroline E. Walker
recently graduated from Cumberland
Law School at Samford University.

Matthew J. Zamaloff

moved from Washington, D.C., to
Boston, where he’s attending the
Suffolk University School of Law.

ee

Vance E. Drawdy
See '89.

Capt. Mitchel Neurock

is now the deputy staff judge advo-
cate at amir Air Station in Turkey.
He says it’s a great job and he and
his wife, Kara, and their daughter,
Aryn, love being in Turkey.

’
93

W. Hobson Barnes

left New York and moved to Paris,

where he still works in asset man-
agement.

Kelly L. Bass

is leaving her post at Neiman-
Marcus in Dallas to pursue a mas-
ter’s in art education at Stanford.

Perrin T. DesPortes Jr.

has relocated from Charlotte to
Alexandria, Va., with the same com-
pany, Sterile Dental Systems. His
new setting is quite different and “a
long way from home,” he says, but
he hopes that business will be even
better in the D.C. area.

Max R. Dunlap

enlisted in the Army for a change
from graduate school. He is a Caval-
ry scout stationed in Fort Polk, La.

Katherine J. Fraser

is a reporter with the American
Banker, a daily paper published in
New York City.

Niv Goldberg

is an administrative assistant with
MCC Behavioral Care Inc., where
he facilitates a nine-member physi-
cian group. Terry O’Brien ’90
recently helped him move into his
apartment in Richfield, Minn.

Ramona Franks Gross

has opened her own business giving
facial acid peels and selling a line of
glycolic acid skin care products. She
lives outside of Nashville with her
husband, Bill.

Scott L. Howe
is finishing his master’s at the

University of Texas at Austin and
will join the Peace Corps thereafter.

John M. Hunter

works as a branch manager for
NationsBank in the Washington
(D.C.) area. He continues to develop
musically with his band, Fluid.

Jason B. Jenkins

recently completed the Navy
Nuclear Power Training Unit course
in Ballston Spa, N.Y. Upon comple-
tion of the course, graduates are des-
ignated as nuclear propulsion plant
operators.

David Lefkowitz 1V

spent his summer in Japan as part of
the University of Virginia exchange
program.

Laura Howard Mayer
See Tom Mayer 92.

Reid A. Murphy

is working on the staff of Young
Life in Danville, Va., while his wife,
Angie ’94, commutes to Greensboro,
N.C., where she is doing graduate
work in speech pathology.

Kathleen M. O'Connor

is pursuing her master’s in French
literature at the University of Indi-
ana. She is also teaching first-year

French as an associate instructor.

Elizabeth F. Randol

is working for Farm Sanctuary, an
animal-rights organization in
Watkins Glen, N.Y.

Stephanie L. Sauers

recently moved to Brooklyn, N.Y.,
where she begins her first teaching
job as a sixth- and seventh-grade
math and science teacher in a
Catholic school.

David R. Schiminger

is an investment assistant for Croft-
Leominster Inc. He lives in
Baltimore with classmate John
Hunter and David Finn ’92L.

Harrison J. Shull 111

is still managing to avoid the “real
world” so far, as he continues to be a
rock climbing guide/instructor and
freelance photographer. He spends
his summers in West Virginia and
his winters in the desert southwest.

93L

Nan E. Hannah

is practicing insurance defense law
as an associate with the firm of
Smith & Holmes in Raleigh, N.C.

David S. Lionberger

is an attorney in the litigation sec-
tion of the Nashville law firm of
King & Ballow.

Ashley L. Taylor

is now an associate with the Norfolk
office of the law firm of Kaufman &
Canoles. He joined the firm’s litiga-

47

tion section after clerking with U.S.
District Judge David Faber in West
Virginia. He lives in Norfolk with
his wife, Gail.

’
94

Steven M. Alocca

is employed by First Chicago as a

First Scholar and attends the

Kellogg School of Business at
Northwestern in pursuit of an MBA.

Stefanie Brown

has finished her master’s at Brown
University and is working as a legal
assistant in the New York City law
firm of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &
Katz. She lives with classmates
Heather Aussiker and Mary Auro.

Andrea P. Cobrin

is working on her master’s in speech
pathology at the University of
Virginia.

L. Kathleen Eastland

now teaches French at Woodward
Academy in Atlanta. She continues
to work toward completing her mas-
ter’s and spent the summer at
Middlebury College’s intensive
French program.

Heather E. Edwards

finished her first year of law school
at Rutgers University and is now
studying international law in
Florence, Italy.

J. Benjamin Eggleston Jr.
is Starting a doctorate program in
philosophy at the University of
Pittsburgh.

William L. Gilmer Jr.

entered the Peace Corps in July
where he teaches second-education
science in the Republic of Ghana.

Mary E. Goetz

was recently promoted to marketing
coordinator for English and journal-
ism at Harcourt Brace College
Publishers in Fort Worth, Texas.

Corinda M. Hankins

is a first-year student at Indiana
University’s School of Medicine in
Indianapolis.

Matthew C. Hansen

is an account executive at TBWA
Advertising, a medium-sized inter-
national ad agency in New York
City. Though he enjoys New York,
he reports that he misses Lexington.

Thomas F. Hespos

works for Young & Rubicam, a New
York advertising company. He
recently moved into an apartment in
Bayside, Queens, where he notes
that the similarity to Lexington is
that “all of the bars are within five
blocks of his apartment.”

Matthew E. Jackson
is a first-year student at the
University of Chicago Law School.

He recently returned from Ireland
where he obtained a master’s in
Anglo-Irish literature from Trinity
College and a diploma in ecumenics
from the Irish School of Ecumenics.

Jimmy Kull
is a first-year student at the
University of Texas School of Law.

Timothy W. Moorhead

has begun working in the Washing-
ton (D.C.) office of Sen. John Warner
‘49. He worked previously for Sen.
Paul Coverdell of Georgia.

Angie C. Murphy
See Reid A. Murphy °93.

L. Ashley Myler

of Washington, D.C., is the assistant
director of development for the
Myelin Project, an international
nonprofit organization whose aim is
to accelerate research on myelin
repair in the central nervous system.

Holley G. Proctor

was finally placed in Cancun for a
six-month assignment by her em-
ployer, Club Med. She invites visi-
tors to join her in tropical paradise!

Joel E. Shinofield

is currently teaching biology and
coaching swimming for middle-
schoolers in the Minneapolis area
public school system. He also runs a
basketball program for at-risk youth.

Bethany Smith

moved to Greenville, S.C., after a
year of working for W&L’s capital
campaign. She works as an assistant
director of a child-care center.

Krista A. Taurins

is an international affairs specialist
with BDM Federal in Washington,
D.C. She provides linguistic support
for the company, which works under
contract with NASA on joint U.S.-
Russian space exploration.

Frederick W. Wood
is selling commercial real estate in
Houston.

Jon Yeargan
is a first-year student at Jefferson
Medical College in Philadelphia.

94L

Laura E. Anderson

is a member of the Maryland Bar
and is working as university counsel
for the University of Maryland in
College Park.

Arnold M. Wensinger
of San Diego sends a welcome cry to
any and all west coast visitors.

’
95

Roland S§. Chase

is a staff consultant at Ernst &

Young in Washington, D.C. Over
the summer, he enjoyed the hospi-

tality of Andrew Pearson 93 and
Will Davis "92, as they gave him a
temporary place to sleep.

Richard F. Cummins Jr.

is working for the Nashville insur-
ance agency Cooper, Love &
Jackson as a producer. Clay Jackson
°76 is a partner in the firm.

Roger Libby

is working as a staff assistant on the
Lamar Alexander for President cam-
paign and living in Nashville.

Brad Meier

is pursuing a joint degree in law and
engineering at the University of
Notre Dame. In three years he will
obtain a J.D. and an M.E. in com-
puter science engineering.

Doug Thiessen
is a first-year law student at Wake
Forest University.

SSE:

Toby D. McCoy
See °92.

Christopher T. Terrell

works at Stokes & Murphy, an
Atlanta law firm specializing in labor
and employment law issues.

Marriages

Jack S. Evans °43

to Janis R. Tinsley, in February 1995.
The couple maintains residences in
Galveston, Dallas, and Austin, Texas.

Philip R. Campbell °57, ’59L
to Cathy Burke, on May 11, 1995, in
Lee Chapel. Mr. & Mrs. Bob Mann
55 and Mr. & Mrs. Larry Johnson
55 witnessed the Reunion
Weekend ceremony.

Richard G. Elliot Jr. °63

to Valarie Messick Stegner, on Feb.
25, 1995, in New Castle, Del. The
groom is a director of Richards,
Layton & Finger.

Lt. Col. Freeman E. Jones ’79
to Anne Beverly McCormack, on
Sept. 23, 1995, in Richmond. The
groom is a strategic planner in the
office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in
Washington, D.C. The couple
resides in Alexandria, Va.

Christopher L. Muller ’82

to Christina Maureen Baldwin, on
Sept. 17, 1994, in Quogue, N.Y. The
groom is western region vice presi-
dent for Lee & Mason Financial
Services.

James H. Campbell ’83

to Jean Marie Crowley, on July 29,
1995, in West Point, N.Y. The cou-
ple lives in Manhattan, where the
groom is employed by National
Westminster Mortgage Group.

 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
   
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
    
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

Deane A. Hennett ’83
to Ann Marie Bakel, on May 6, 10
in Charlottesville, Va. Classmate
Darryl K. Woodson, Michael B.
Layne, and Raymond B. Pa

were in the wedding party. The |
couple resides in Charlottesville,

James R. Carawan ’84
to Lorrie Ann Spradlin, on June 10
1995, in Vinton, Va. The couple —
lives in Roanoke County, where ¢
groom is employed by Adantic | 7
Mutual Cos.

Gerald Daniel Shepherd 86
to Lori Deal Spainhour, on May
1995, in Winston-Salem, N ca
couple lives in New York City,

Patrick H. Burgdorf’87
to Erin Considine O’Brien, on M:
13, 1995, in Spring Lake, NJ.
couple lives in New York City —
where the groom is a senior con:
tant with Teachers Insurance ar
Annuity Association and College
Retirement Equities Fund.

James F. Kelly ’87
to Nadine Welsch, on Sept. 3, 15
in Oakdale, N.Y. The couple li
in Manhattan.

Raymond M. McGrew ’87
to Georgeann Smith, on June 17,
1995, in Marietta, Ga. The weddii
party included classmates Jimmy —
Sloan, Alex Chambers, Louis Ce
Brandt Surgner, as well as Lloyd —
Willcox. Powell Starks ’83, *88L,
Luter ’88, and Boyce McGrew’
The couple lives in Atlanta.

Mark J. Peake ’88L |
to Lila A. Gober, on April 22, 19
in Lynchburg, Va.

Andrew L. Howell ’89
to Nancy Bethea, on Oct. 7, 19%
New Orleans. The couple lives i1
Charlotte, where Howell practic
law with the firm of Petree Stoc

David N. Klabo ’89
to Emma Parnell, on Nov. 12, 1$
in Nags Head, N.C. Classmates —
Thomas F. Rawls and Melissa a
Roberts were in the wedding f

W. Fray McCormick 89 :
to Margaret Bradley, on May 20, _

1995, in Columbus, Ga. The ee
lives in Birmingham where the —
groom is president of his third-yea!
law class at Cumberland Law sent
of Samford University.

Douglas C. Martinson Ma
to Lauren Claire Burlison, on Jul
15, 1995. The couple lives in
Huntsville, Ala., where the groom
an attorney at the law firm of
Martinson & Beason.

Dr. A. Robinson Winn ‘89L
to Maria Ander, on June 10, 1995,
Chesapeake, Va, where the couf 7
now resides. 4]

G. Wesley Boyd ’90
co Meredith Soloman, on May 20,
995. The couple lives in Cincinnati
ose the groom is an assistant
brand manager for Procter &
Gamble. Boyd graduated from the
University of Texas at Austin
Graduate School of Business last

May.

Caroline Carter "90

to Ronald Whitmire, on June 17,
1995, in Alexandria, Va. Classmates
Lisa Moody, Ashley Tredick,
Kathryn Hardwick, Kelly Hughes,
Kinnan Lane, Virginia Barnett, and
Caroline Davis were all members of
the wedding party. Rob Carter "95,
brother of the bride, was a reader.
The bride works as a legal assistant
in the Washington (D.C.) law firm
of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer &
Feld and attends American
University Law School.

David K. Gildea '90

to Ellen Rigsby Lewis ’92,

on April 22, 1995. The wedding
party included several classmates of
the bride, Kimberly Bishop,
Elizabeth Fox, Courthey Hall,
Emily McClintock, Lisa McHenry,
Laura Pilachowski, Monie
Schroeder Henderson, Courtney
Warren, and Garnett Wilbourn.
Travis Blain, Gordon Dekuyper,
Tad Kelley, Carlos Millan, and Scott
Pierce were all classmates in the
groom’s party as well as Beau
Gillespie °91. The couple lives in
Baltimore.

Marjorie E. (Meg) Gilkeson ’90
to Tom Kilgannon, on Feb. 18,

1995, in Lee Chapel. The couple
lives in Centreville, Va., where the
bride works for United Seniors.

James B. Lake ’90, ’94L

to Katherine C. O’Brien ’94L,
on Sept. 23, 1995, in Birmingham.
Members of the wedding party
included R. Scott Cornell ’90,
Charles T. Gay ’89, John R. Lawson
III 89, Scott T. Silverman ’90, and
Mark C. Van Deusen ’93. The cou-
ple lives in Tampa, Fla., where the
groom is an attorney with Holland &
Knight and the bride is an attorney
with Fowler, White, Gillen, Boggs,
Villareal & Banker.

Cecelia Marie Philipps °90
to John Sherman Mahood Horner,
On June 24, 1995, in Lee Chapel.
The wedding party included the
bride's sister, Melissa Anne Philipps
93 and classmate Elizabeth Pryor
happ. The bride is a first-year stu-
dent at the University of Virginia
hool of Law. The couple lives in
nge, Va.

Kimberly §. Wilkinson °90

ark Mason, on April 29, 1995, in

ackson, Miss. The bride’s brother,
ilkinson ’91, was a member of

i weddin g& party. The couple

“ated from the University of

 

Tennessee at Memphis College of
Medicine in June. They now live in
Chicago, where the bride is a pedi-
atrics resident at Children’s
Memorial Hospital.

Ann Gregory ’91

to Scott Hatcher, on June 10, 1995,
in Lexington, Va. The wedding
party included classmates Paige
Loper and Sherri Brown. A recep-
tion followed at the W&L Alumni
House. The couple lives in Burns,
‘Tenn., and the bride works for
NationsBank in Nashville.

E. Tait North ’91

to Thomas William Simmons, on
Feb. 25, 1995, at St. Andrew’s
Chapel, Woodberry Forest, Va.
Classmate Blair Simmons Gilchrist
and Stuart North "93 were members
of the wedding party. The couple
resides in Great Falls, Va.

Mary Stanton ’91

to W. Stewart Smith, on Aug. 5,
1995, in Duxbury, Mass. The couple
lives in Houston, where the bride
works for AIM Management Group,
a mutual fund company, in the retail
marketing department.

Melissa Giove ’91L

to James M. Brault on April 29,
1995, in Washington, D.C. The
wedding party included Julie Alagna
92L and Robert Doyle Jr. "92L.
The bride is an associate with the
Baltimore law firm of Tydings and
Rosenburg. The couple lives in
Olney, Md.

Clifford R. Jarrett ’91L

to Amy Hines Hendrix, on July 29,
1995, in Charlotte. The groom is an
attorney with Kennedy, Covington,
Lobdell and Hickman in Charlotte.

Misty A. Sweet ’91L

to David Bear Stuart ’85,

on Jan.14, 1995, in Lee Chapel. Bill
Dalton ’85 was a member of the
wedding party. The bride is a writer
and political and legislative consul-
tant and the groom is a professional
juggler. The couple lives in Roanoke.

Armando Benincasa ’92

to Marcy Wood ’94,

on Aug. 5, 1995, in Lee Chapel. The
wedding party included Emmette
Pilgreen 90, Matt Wise ’91, Gray
Rand °91, Jennifer Coleman °92,
Julie Staring ’92, Leo Decanini "95,
and Pina Benincasa ’95. The couple
lives in South Charleston, W.Va.,
where the bride is an administrative
assistant for the law firm of Calwell
& McCormick and the groom is an
attorney for the W.Va. Division of
Environmental Protection.

Christian Brose ’92

to Jennifer McCallum, on Aug. 5,
1995, in Fort Worth, Texas. Brose
received a law degree from South-
ern Methodist University in Dallas

in May. The couple lives in Fort
Worth.

J. Read Folline ’92

to Lura Vereen Smith, on Feb. 18,
1995, in Greenville, S.C. The wed-
ding party included classmates
Hunter Williams, Jason Gordon,
Craig Waites, Bill LaMotte, Thomas
Otis, and Chris Haley. Charlie
Smith ’61 gave his daughter in mar-
riage. The couple now lives in
Dunwoody, Ga.

Christopher C. Swann '92

to Kathy Ferrell ’93,

on June 17, 1995, in Atlanta. The
wedding party included Perry
Skoglund ’92, Lee Corbin °92,
Michelle May °93, and Liz Miller
"93. The couple lives in Columbia,
Mo., where the bride is beginning a
Ph.D in couseling psychology and
the groom is working toward a mas-
ter’s in English at Columbia
University.

Susan D. Watkins ’92

to John P. Dulin, on May 6, 1995, in
Birmingham. The wedding party
included Michael Higginbotham 90
and Reynolds Thompson ’85. The
couple lives in Birmingham, where
the bride teaches gifted students in
the Mountain Brook school system.

Sara M. (Ricci) Webb ’92

to Howard Bender, on Oct. 7, 1995,
in Jacksonville, Fla. Classmate Julie
Lawrence was in the bridal party.
She was given in marriage by her
father, Jesse Webb ’59. The couple
lives in Arlington, Va., and the bride
works as a loan production assistant
for Washington Mortgage Finance
Group in Vienna.

Robert W. Doyle Jr. °92L

to Natalie Sue Hamilton, on Aug.
19, 1995, in Reston, Va. The couple
lives in Central Islip, N.Y., the
groom is an assistant district attor-
ney for Suffolk County.

Evan A. Allison ’93

to Cory Chung ’94,

on July 15, 1995, in Atlanta. The
couple lives in Atlanta.

Jennifer K. Gladwell °93

to Bradley Wakeman, on June 24,
1995. Adrienne Weatherford
Howard °91, Stacy Baker 92, and
Marcy Brown Rand °92 were in the
wedding. The couple now lives in
Danville, Pa.

Kimberly A. Marcott ’93

to Richard Elliot Weinberg, on July
23, 1995. Classmate Cara Snyder
was a member of the wedding party.
The couple lives in Bradford, Pa.,
where the bride is employed by The
Bradford Era.

Stacey Colfrey °94

to Jay LaCour, on May 6, 1995.
Members of the wedding party
included classmates Jennifer

Roscoe, Dana Lawrence, Blair
Hixson, Mary Auro, and Sean
Collins. Following a honeymoon to
London, the couple resides in New
Orleans where Colfrey is an auditrix
with Arthur Andersen.

Laina Ewan ’94

to Kevin Crowthers, on June 4,
1995. She is a medical student at
the University of Connecticut
School of Medicine in Farmington,
Conn.

M. Brennan McBride ’94

to Keena Lynn Payne, on Sept. 9,
1995, in Roanoke. Classmate Dan
Katzenbach and William W.
Graham IV ’89 were groomsmen.
The couple lives in Alexandria, Va.

Lawrence J. McClafferty ’94L
to Pilar Montes, on July 22, 1995, in
Brighton, Mass. The groom is an
associate with the Leesburg (Va.)
law firm of Price & Zimmerman.

Christopher C. Barlow ’95

to Mary Frances Thielen, on June
24, 1995, in Olympia, Wash. The
wedding party included Nathan
Dunn °94 and Jamie Turner "95.
The groom will be studying at the
University of Washington, where he
holds a graduate fellowship.

Adam Williams ’95

to Kyle Highfill, onJune 17, 1995,
in Roanoke. The couple lives in
Roanoke, where the groom teaches
geography and coaches wrestling
and soccer at William Byrd High
School.

Elizabeth A. Zarek ’95

to Bradly Duane Jorgenson, on June
24, 1995, in Gothenburg, Neb.
Classmates Melissa Malone, Anne
Spruill, Megan McCloskey, Tom
Day, and Justin King were members
of the wedding party. Beth Wiley
"96 was a vocalist. The couple lives
in Modena, Italy.

Cam Beck ’95L to Eone Moore
"95L, on Sept. 30, 1995, in
Senatobia, Miss. The wedding party
included classmates Jim Felte, Jay
Oakey, and Cynthia Icard, The cou-
ple lives in Richmond.

Births

Mr. @ Mrs. Randolph W.
Lunsford ’58, a daughter,
Rosalina Delight, on Aug. 9, 1994.
The family lives in Las Vegas.

Mr. @ Mrs. Jorge E. Estrada
M. ’69, ason, Jorge Javier, on
Sept. 3, 1994. Jorge joins four sib-
lings. The family lives in Buenos
Aires, where Estrada was named
director of NASDAQ-traded Pride
Petroleum Services, Production
Operators Inc. and John Wood
Group USA.

Let's Do It Again

As we approach the 200th anniversary of George Washing-
ton’s unprecedented gift to Liberty Hall Academy, we are
reminded of the University’s heritage of giving and its impor-
tance to our continued success. Throughout its 246-year history,
Washington and Lee has been sustained and strengthened by
the contributions of its alumni and friends. This tradition of sup-
port is carried on today through the Annual Fund. It is a her-
itage—and an achievement—that we all share.

|

oo".

a noes eee Sat ae
oS ee

SPs Se et

eS S
ak

a PN tore

BSS PS ae ea

 

Class Agents Weekend in September brought together a record number
of alumni, including Ernie Williams °38 (sixth from left), for whom
the School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics has been rechristened.

For 62 years now, the Annual Fund has been the foundation
for support of the University. The recently concluded capital
campaign was built on the assumption that the Annual Fund
would continue to thrive. In fact, together we met and exceeded
all expectations, contributing $13.5 million to the Annual Fund
during the five-year campaign—$2 million over goal. Now, with
the conclusion of the campaign, the Annual Fund resumes its
role as the flagship for alumni support of W&L.

But first, let me share with you the numbers from last year.
The 1994-95 Annual Fund reached another record dollar high
($2,682,664), with increased participation (43 percent of under-
graduate alumni and 38.5 percent of law alumni) and the sup-
port of more than 9,000 donors. We broke records in every area.

Our goal this year is to do even better. In terms of dollars, it is
ambitious—$2.875 million. But with your help, we will reach
another milestone. The University’s volunteer leadership—the
Board of Trustees, Alumni Board, and Law Council—already
has reached 100 percent participation in this year’s Annual
Fund. This extraordinary level of commitment bodes well for
another outstanding year and an even stronger institution.

Many thanks to all of you who participated last year. You can
take great pride in our joint achievement. For this year, I look
forward to working with you all on behalf of Washington and
Lee, and ask that you join all loyal alumni to elevate the Annual
Fund to still higher levels. As you consider your level of support
for W&L this year, please remember how the Annual Fund sus-
tains all aspects of the University—from the Colonnade to
Lewis Hall—and how it underwrites our success.

John Wolf °69, °72L
Chairman, 1995-96 Annual Fund

 

Mr. @ Mrs. P. Bryan Chasney

'74,a son, Sean Thomas, on July 28,

1995. He joins a brother, Bryan Jr.,
and a sister, Meredith. The family
lives in Baltimore.

Mr. @ Mrs. Allen S.C.
Willingham °74, ason, Julian
George, on Dec. 27, 1994. He joins,
one brother and, one sister. The
family lives in Atlanta.

Mr. @ Mrs. Paul Burnap °75,
a daughter, Elizabeth, on July 13,
1995. Burnap continues to work as a
senior analyst for the management
consulting firm of West Hudson &
Co. in Dallas.

Mr. ©@ Mrs. W. David Lawson
IV °75, ason, Henry Carter, on
Oct. 24, 1994. He joins a sister,
Charlotte, and a brother, William.
The family lives in Australia where
Lawson is managing director at J.P.
Morgan.

Mr. @ Mrs. Vernon E. O’Berry
Jr. °76, ason, Vernon Eugene III,
on Dec. 4, 1994. The family lives in
Virginia Beach.

Mr. © Mrs. William J. Kerr
‘77, ason, Ryan Patrick, on Dec.
21, 1994. The family lives in
Wheaton, III.

Mr. @ Mrs. Jeffery R. Rich
‘78, ason, Harrison Joseph, on
Feb. 7, 1995. He joins a brother,
Jonathan, and a sister, Madeleine.
The family lives in Red Bank, N.].
Rich is a shareholder in the law firm
of Wilentz, Goldman & Spitzer,
which specializes in commercial real
estate transactions.

Mr. @ Mrs. Charles H. Clark
Jr. °79, adaughter, Rachel
Elizabeth, on June 15, 1995. The
family lives in Columbus, Md.

Mr. @ Mrs. Joseph F. Cox °79
a daughter, Katherine, on Dec. 10,
1994. Cox is president of Bench-
mark Commercial Properties, a
‘Towson (Md.)-based real estate bro-
ker, property manager and consult-

ing group.

Mr. @ Mrs. Sean R. Smith

‘79, ’83L, a daughter, Clair Maris,

on July 24, 1995. She joins twin
brothers Patrick and Daniel. The
family lives in Brooklyn, N.Y.

Mr. @ Mrs. G. Brian Bauer
‘80, ason, Eric Owen, on Sept. 21,
1994. Brian reports that his father
George °38 already wonders when
Eric’s application is gonna hit the
W&L admissions office. Brian is
“temporarily retired” from his geri-
atrics practice in Madison, Wis.,
while being charged with full-time
child care.

    
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
    
  
  
    
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  

Mr. © Mrs. David L. Church
‘80, a son, Christopher Meirs Ley

on Aug. 5, 1995. The family lives in
Waverly, Pa. Church is a vice pre:

dent with PNC Bank and managege
five lenders responsible for real
estate lending in portions of Penn-
sylvania, New York, and New J
He recently joined the board of ¢
Countryside Conservatory, a land
trust created to preserve and en- _
hance the rural character of subyur
northwest of Scranton. His wife, —
Laura O’Hear Church, an exchange.
student in 1980-81, is a lobbyist _
with Blue Cross of Northeastern Pa

Dr. © Mrs. Mell L. Duggan
Jr. ’80, ason, Patrick Reeves, o
March 21, 1995. He joins two siste
Ivy and Carlee. The family lives jn
Birmingham, where Duggan prae
tices medicine. Duggan still enjoy
returning to Lexington each sprin
to hunt and play golf with friend
Rik Kirkland °81.

Mr. @ Mrs. Goetz B. kate q
‘80, ason, James Harrington, on
Dec. 5, 1994. The family lives in —
Weston, Mass.
Mr. @ Mrs. Kevin McGowan —
‘80, ason, Kyle Thomas, on May
29, 1995. He joins twins, Stephanie
and David. McGowan works for F
Atlantic as a computer analyst.
family lives in Greenbelt, Md.

Dr. © Mrs. Scott E. Smith “80,
a daughter, Devani Anne Morgar
on Feb. 3, 1995. She joins two
brothers, Ethan and Jeb. The far
lives in Annapolis, where Smith is”
his fifth year of private practice aS
psychologist. ;

Mr. © Mrs. Steven M. Smith
‘80, ason, Holden Alexander, on
July 4, 1995. Smith is vice presiden
of operations for MHI, a hotel ma
agement company in College F k,
Md.

fan @ Mrs. Neil T. Treger ©

), a daughter, Sarah Noel, on —
big 26, 1994. The family lives in
White Bear Lake, Minn.

Mr. @ Mrs. Earle 8. Greene —
Jr. °82, a daughter, Haley Mari
on Dec. 24, 1994. The family lives
in Fredericksburg, Va.

Mr. & Mrs. George H. West —
II] °82, a daughter, Ashley
Rebecca, on Aug. 5, 1995. She Jj pir
a brother George Alexander. The ,
family lives in Savannah, Ga.

Mr. & Mrs. Edward J. 0 ‘Brie
IV °83. ason, Collins Trempet, © :
March 23, 1995. The family lives ¥
Louisville, Ky. 4

Mary G. O’Brien 'S3L ©
Kevin Casey ’85L, a daughter,

EOE

Monica Ann, on June 15, 1995. The
family lives in Nokesville, Va.

Mr. & Mrs. W. Michael Read
+93, a daughter, Kaitlyn Lois, on
Nov. 3, 1994. The family lives in
Dallas, where both parents practice

law.

pr. & Mrs. Richard W. Young
+93, ason, Timothy Richard, on
Jan. 3, 1995. The family lives in
Myrtle Beach, S.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Raymond A.

Ceresa °84, ason, Colin Michael,
on Feb. 23, 1995. He joins a brother,
Ryan Matthew. The family lives in

Sterling, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. Thomas L.H.
Cocke °84, ason, Thomas
Lawrence Hunt Jr., on June 21,
1995. The family lives in Nashville.

Mr. @ Mrs. Charles J. Fox IV
84, ason, William Wingfield, on
Oct. 6, 1994. He joins a brother,
Charles J. V. The family lives in
Macon, Ga.

Mr. @ Mrs. Patrick T.
McGuire °84, ason, Shane
Kieran, on July 14, 1995. The family
lives in Mabelton, Ga.

Mr. @ Mrs. G. Michael Pace
Jr. °84L, a daughter, Catherine
Elizabeth Dyer, on Jan. 27, 1995.
The family lives in Salem, Va.

Mr. © Mrs. Thomas P.
‘Wohlforth ‘84, ason, Preston
Alexander, on Jan. 17, 1995. Wohl-
forth, a CPA, works a financial ana-
lyst at Virginia Power. The family
lives in Richmond.

Mr. @ Mrs. Nicholas L.
Cromwe// ’85, ason, Spencer
Austin, on June 18, 1995. The fami-
ly lives in East Amherst, N.Y.
Cromwell and his wife, Lori, are
both OB/GYNs in Buffalo.

Mr. @ Mrs. William W.
DeCamp ‘85, ason, Robert
Kitchel, on Jan. 27, 1995. The fami-
ly lives in Nashville.

Mr. @ Mrs. Robert M.
Harrison ‘85, a daughter,
Gabrielle Elizabeth, on July 6, 1995.
The family lives in Dunn, N.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. K. Greg Niles ’85,
4 son, Aidan Riley, on June 13, 1995.
© joins a brother, Conor. The fam-
ily lives in North Myrtle Beach,

C., where Niles is the city planner.

Mr. @ Mrs. W. Marsh
Robertson ‘85, ason, William
Kessenich, on March 2, 1995. He
mins a sister, Ashley Elizabeth. The
amily lives in Greenville, S.C.

co. © Mrs. Lawrence S. Anker
’ 4 daughter, Abigail Lauren, on

jm

May 17, 1995. The family lives in
Erie, Pa.

Mr. @ Mrs. Christopher A.
Bleggi ’86, ason, Ryan Justin, on
Oct. 5, 1995. He joins a brother,
Christopher Taylor. The family
lives in Erie, Pa.

Mr. @ Mrs. William G. Bloom
’86, ason, William George Jr., on
Sept. 30, 1994. The family lives in
Alexandria, Va. Bloom is vice presi-
dent and partner of Yardstick
Interiors in Capitol Heights, Md.

Dr. @ Mrs. John-Paul
Bouffard ’86, ason, Benjamin
Clarke, on Dec. 4, 1994. The family
lives in San Antonio, where Bouffard
is completing a pathology residency.

Dr. @ Mrs. Scott B. Boyd ’86,
a son, Hugh Chapman, on May 16,
1995. He joins a brother, Austin.
The family lives in Chapel Hill,
N.C., where Boyd is chief resident
in neurosurgery for the University of
North Carolina Hospital.

Mr. @ Mrs. John M. Falk ’86,
*90L, ason, John Mansfield Jr., on
June 28, 1995. The family lives in
Washington, D.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. James J. Strader
"86, ason, Samuel Merritt, on Aug.
10, 1995. The family lives in
Harrisburg, Pa., where Strader
reports for the Associated Press.

Mr. @ Mrs. Vincent S.
LaManna ’87, ason, Ignazio
Steven, on March 14, 1995. He joins
sisters Justine and Leanna. The
family lives in Port Washington,
N.Y. LaManna is with the commer-
cial real estate firm of D.G. Hart
Associates Inc., in New York City.

Mr. @ Mrs. Jeffery 8. Mandak
‘87, a daughter, Alexa Marie, on
Aug. 11, 1995. The family lives in
Danville, Pa.

Mr. @ Mrs. Thomas H. Pee
"87, a daughter, Emily Kathryn, on
March 3, 1995. The family lives in
Lafayette, La.

Mr. © Mrs. Thomas B. Peters
"87, ason, Augustus Winniett II,
on April 4, 1995. The family lives in
San Francisco, where Peters is an
associate in the investment firm of
Hambrecht & Quist Inc.

Mr. @ Mrs. James G. Tucker
*87, ason, James Garrett Jr., on
May 5, 1995. The family lives in
Richmond, where Tucker works for
Philip Morris.

Mr. @ Mrs. Dean C. Barry ’88,
a son, Matthew Pennefather, on
June 22, 1995. He joins a brother,
Timothy. The family lives in
Eastchester, N.Y.

Mr. @ Mrs. Craig O. Garneau
‘88, ason, Frederick Wilson, on
Nov. 26, 1994. Craig was recently
promoted to vice president of
Quality Name Plate Inc. The family
lives in Glastonbury, Conn.

Dr. @ Mrs. Timothy Golian
’88, ason, Timothy Tyler, on May
8, 1995. The family lives in Falls
Church, Va. Golian recently com-
pleted a post-graduate training pro-
gram in endodontics at the Medical
College of Virginia School of
Dentistry. He will open a private
practice in Fairfax.

Mr. @ Mrs. David S. Make-
peace ’88, ason, Turner Lee, on
Oct. 1, 1994. The family lives in
Charlotte.

Mr. @ Mrs. Jonathan M.
Preziosi ’88, ason, Colman Hall,
on Aug. 25, 1994. Colman’s godfa-
ther is C. Russell H. Shearer ’88.
The family lives in Princeton, N.J.

Mr. @ Mrs. Bradley B. Root
’88, a daughter, Madison Ashley,
on May 12, 1995. The family lives in
Pittsburgh. Root is a partner and
financial consultant with D.B. Root
& Co.

Tracie Grove Smith ’88L

and her husband, Linton, a daugh-
ter, Margaret, on June 15, 1995. The
family lives in Savannah, Ga.

Mr. @ Mrs. Edward J.
Willard ’88, ason, Christopher
Stewart, on July 17, 1995. The fami-
ly lives in Monmouth Junction, N.].

Mr. @ Mrs. Frampton L.
Harper II ’89, ason, Robert
Lawton, on Aug. 15, 1995. The fam-
ily lives in Beaufort, S.C. Harper is
in his second year of practicing law.

Mr. @ Mrs. David McDowell
"89, ason, William Whittington, on
Sept. 10, 1995. McDowell recently
graduated from Cumberland School
of Law of Samford University in
May. He is now associated with the
firm of Clark & Scott in Birmingham.

Melissa Thrasher Peeler ’89
and her husband, Michael, a daugh-
ter, Anna Crawford, on April 5, 1995.
The family lives in Nashville.

Marie Dunne White ’89

and her husband, John, a daughter,
Erin Colleen, on July 18, 1995. She
joins a brother, Alec. The family
lives in Centreville, Va.

J. Patrick Darby ’89L @
Caroline Roberts Darby ’90L,
a son, Patrick Roberts, on June 16,
1995. The family lives in Birmingham.

William E. (Toby) Allen ’90 @
Catherine H. Allen ’92,
a daughter, Claire Elizabeth, on

Aug. 3, 1995. The family lives in
Austin, Texas, where Toby has
assumed a postdoctoral position in
chemistry at the University of Texas.

Mr. @ Mrs. Drake McGraw Jr.
"90, ason, David Drake III, on
April 9, 1995. McGrew works in the
office of Congressman Bill Zeliff of
New Hampshire. The family lives
in Silver Spring, Md.

Mrs. Jane Lee Joyce McHan
"90 and her husband, Wesley, a
son, Thomas Wesley, on Aug. 29,
1995. The family lives in Little
Rock, Ark. After graduating from
law school next May, McHan will be
an associate with the Rose Law
Firm in Little Rock.

Mr. @ Mrs. Keith P. Duet
"90L, a daughter, Lucinde Elise,
on Sept. 29, 1994. The family lives
in Madisonville, La.

Mr. @ Mrs. J. Garrett Horsley
"90L, a daughter, Selina McGill,
on Nov. 1, 1994. The family lives in
Richmond.

Courtney Adams Christensen
"91 @ Robert A. Christnesen
*91, ason, James Bluford, on
March 21, 1995. The family lives in
Richmond, where Rob is a financial
analyst for Asea Brown and Boveri,
and Courtney, an attorney, is staying
home with Jabe.

Mr. @ Mrs. Andrew R. Nixon
‘91, a daughter, Anna Leigh, on
July 9, 1995. The family lives in
Decatur, Kan.

Mr. @ Mrs. Harold H.
Wingerd III ’91, ason, Sullivan
Everett, on July 4, 1995. The family
lives in West Chester, Pa., and
Wingerd is a senior associate in
investment adviser services at the
Vanguard Group of Investment Cos.

Mr. @ Mrs. Woody W. Lay
"91L, a daughter, Margaret Claire,
on Feb. 24, 1995. The family lives
in Richmond.

Mr. @ Mrs. Clifford B.
Stricklin °91L, ason, Calhoun,
on Oct. 16, 1994. The family lives in
Dallas, where Stricklin is an assis-
tant U.S. attorney for the eastern
district of Texas.

Mrs. Elizabeth W. Williamson
"91L and her husband, Russell, a
daughter, Caroline Elizabeth, on
Oct. 11, 1994. The family lives in
Memphis, Tenn.

Julie Ann Edgar Zarzosa ’93
and her husband, Alberto, a daugh-
ter, Lara Madison, on July 11, 1995.
The family lives in Oakland, where
Julie aspires to do graduate work in
interdisciplinary curriculum writing.

51

Mr. @ Mrs. Thomas C. Kleine
'94L, ason, Thomas Chandler Jr.,
on April 11, 1995. The couple lives
in Williamsburg, Va.

in Memoriam

The Rev. Judson B. Holloway
’23, retired minister, died March
27, 1995, in Hamilton, Ohio. He was
a member of Lambda Chi Alpha.
After attending W&L, Holloway
received his M.A. from Vanderbilt
and his Th.M. from Southern
Baptist Theological Seminary in
Louisville. He served in both World
Wars and later held several minister-
ial positions in Ohio before retiring
from First Baptist Church in Hamil-
ton, Ohio, in 1979.

Cary A. Moomaw '25,

retired public works construction
engineer, died May 4, 1995, in
Roanoke. He was a member of Phi
Gamma Delta. Moomaw worked as
an accountant on construction pro-
jects in several states, Brazil,
Iceland, Iraq, and Iran.

George E. Burks °27,

retired insurance agent, died May
26, 1995, in Lousiville, Ky. He was
president of Pi Kappa Alpha at
W&L and eventually inducted as an
honorary member of Omicron Delta

Kappa in 1951. Burkes served on
W&L’s Alumni Board of Directors
and served as a Louisville recruiter
for 45 years. He owned and operat-
ed the Hummel, Meyer & Burks
insurance agency for 33 years and
served as a member of the Louis-
ville Chamber of Commerce and as
founder and past president of the
old Junior Board of Trade. He was
also a past president of Louisville
Independent Insurance Agents.

Herman H. Hellriegel '29,
retired businessman, died April 6,
1995, in Gainesville, Fla. He worked
in the lumber industry in Alberta,
Va., until he moved to Gainesville,
where he worked for various build-
ing material firms.

James B. Merrick °30, ’32L,
former director of Farmer’s National
Bank, died May 26, 1995, in Crump-
ton, Md. Merrick was a lieutenant
commander in the Navy and was
awarded the Philippine Liberation
Ribbon with bronze battle star for
his service in World War II.

James A. Wotton ’°30,

retired radio and electronics equip-
ment operator, died Oct. 28, 1994, in
Alstead, N.H. He was a member of
Lambda Chi Alpha. Wotton was a
radar technician for the Royal Air
Force and later for the U.S. Army
during World War II. In civilian life,
he worked for the Port Authority of
New York and New Jersey.

French L. Boyer ’33,

retired insurance agent, died April 2,
1994, in Woodstock, Va. He was a
member of Pi Kappa Alpha at
W&L. He worked for Minnesota
Mutual Life until his retirement.

Edward W. Chappell Jr. °35,
retired employee of DuPont Co.,
died June 1, 1995, in Signal Moun-
tain, Tenn. He was a member of Pi
Kappa Alpha fraternity. In 1979,
Chappell retired from DuPont after
44 years and later became a business
consultant for Industro Equipment
& Supply Co. in Chattanooga.

Albert W. Moss 35,

former advertising executive, died
June 28, 1995, in Pinehurst, N.C.
He was a member of Delta Upsilon
and Sigma Delta Chi honor society.
In the late 30s, Moss went to work
for the family business, Standard
Rate and Data Service, an advertis-
ing publisher in New York. An avid
fox hunter, he was a member of two
fox-hunting clubs.

Pleas Ramsey °35,

retired CPA, died Aug. 8, 1995, in
Kingsport, Tenn. The Salem (Va.)
native attended W&L from 1932 to
1933 before graduating from
Roanoke College.

Deland R. McClure ’36,

retired delivery service manager,
died Aug. 15, 1995, in Salem, Va.
He attended W&L for one year and

  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

later studied at National Bus;
College. McClure served in hol :
Marine Corps during World War tl 3 -
and was later employed with ve
Security Transport & Delivery
Service of Roanoke. |
3
Ralph H. Smith '36,°391,
retired attorney and the only elecre
town crier in the United States, dj
July 31, 1995, in Mariemont, Ohio,
He was president of Kappa Sigma —
while at W&L and a member of ¢
Interfraternity Council and the foo
ball team. After serving in the N
during World War II, he practiced —
law in West Virginia and later
became deputy insurance commis-
sioner. He then joined Union
Central Life Insurance Co. as assis-
tant counsel and moved to %
Mariemont where, for 34 years as _
town crier, he served as unofficial —
cheerleader and symbol for the e:
side Ohio community. ;

Lt. Col. Rene L. Tallichet *3
retired Army and CIA officer, died
July 29, 1995, in Fairfax, Va. The —
New Orleans native was a member
of Phi Gamma Delta at W&L. He
served in the Army for 24 years ar
later became an intelligence offic
in the CIA. He was decorated with ;
Silver Star and two Purple Hearts.

William A. Mussen °37,
retired electrical engineer, died July
14, 1995, in St. Petersburg, Fla. A
native of Brooklyn, N.Y., he was a_

 

Wr oA, ces

Ls ot NpOet Cevid cd een «86 ROPER TY Ly oR ae

 

Armchairs

 

 

Black lacquer
or

Dark pine $250

 

 

 

-]| BOSTON ROCKER |! ARMCHAIR

Black lacquer with
cherry arms or

Dark pine $250

The Boston Rocker requires some assembly.
Make check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Prices
include freight charges. Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery.

and Rockers

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-
rubbed in black lacquer or dark pine stain. The five-color
crest of the University is painted on the back of each chair or
rocker. They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture and
are welcome gifts for birthdays, graduation, Christmas,
anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham 14.

Order by phone or fax! Credit card orders may be placed by
calling (540) 463-8464 or by faxing this form to the W&L
Alumni Office at (540) 463-8473. Or mail your order to:
Washington and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA 24450.

ORDERED BY
SHIP TO
STREET ADDRESS
City/STATE/ZIP
DAYTIME PHONE
METHOD OF PAYMENT © VisA © MasTeRCARD- (C) CHECK
CARD NUMBER/EXPIRATION DATE

NAME AS IT APPEARS ON CARD

 

phi Kappa Psi at W&L. He |
designed and produced electronic
circuits and radio proximity fuses
during World War II and continued
ro do so after the war. He later
became the head of the engineering
departments at Singer Manufactur-
ing Corp. and the United Aircraft
_in Connecticut. He moved to
Florida in 1967 and owned Pirate’s
Cove Fish Camp in St. Petersburg

until his retirement in 1981.

Leon D. Patton '37,

retired president of Redfern Foods,
q meat-packing company, died July
19, 1995, in Decatur, Ga. He was a
member of the Kappa Alpha Order.

Wells Mears 38,

retired advertising writer and free-
lance author, died April 26, 1995, in
Guilford, Md. He attended a num-
ber of colleges, including W&L and
Johns Hopkins, but lost his savings
in a bank failure and never graduat-
ed. He was a sergeant in the Army
in World War II. Mears wrote ad
copy for 30 years in 16 cities and was
a member of the Mencken Society.

Dr. Albert A. Pollack ’38,
retired physician, died May 27,
1995, in New York City. A member
of Zeta Beta Tau and Sigma Chi
honor fraternity, he received his
medical degree from the Long
Island College of Medicine in 1942
and crossed the Atlantic 36 times
during World War II as captain on a
hospital ship. He received his M.S.
from the University of Minnesota in
1953 and returned to his home state
of New York as an attending physi-
cian and instructor at the New York
University Bellevue Medical
Center. He then spent 25 years as
medical director for Mutual Life
Insurance Co. before joining the
staff of Cornell Medical School as
associate professor.

John L. Hawkins II ’39L,
retired attorney and towing industry
executive, died April 1, 1995, in
Chattanooga, Tenn. Hawkins
worked in the W.Va. transportation
industry before serving in World
War II and went on to open his own
law firm in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He
later became administrator of the
Professional Wrecker Operators of
Florida, founded the publication
Tow Times, and remained active in
fetirement as a consultant for the
‘owing and storage industry.

Stephen Leonard ’40,
attorney, died July 16, 1995, in
ashington, D.C. He was a member
of Phi Kappa Psi. He received his
aw degree from the University of
Ndiana and later taught at the
hternational School of Law in
ashington, D.C.

vfward E. Hunter Jr. °41,
; “tad A, retired federal personnel
ler, died July 1, 1995, in

i

Asheville, N.C. A member of Phi
Beta Kappa honor society, Hunter
completed his master’s in political
science and then moved to Wash-
ington, D.C., to begin his federal
career. He worked for the Labor
Dept, the Navy Dept., the CIA, and
the Postal Service. Upon retiring in
1971 from the Postal Service,
Hunter worked for the Cost of
Living Council and the Pan Ameri-
can Health Organization before
moving to Arden, N.C., in 1979.

F. Sydnor Kirkpatrick °41,
retired businessman, died Aug. 8,
1995, in Walnut Creek, Calif. He
was a member of Delta Tau Delta.
Kirkpatrick completed a degree in
chemical engineering from MIT in
1943. During World War II, he was
stationed in the Army, serving state-
side. From 1946 to 1968, Kirkpatrick
was president of Western Extermi-
nating Co., and from 1968 to 1978,
he was president of Consultants
Inc., an executive employment ser-
vice based in Westfield, N.].

James B. Clarke Jr. °42,
retired attorney, died April 12, 1995,
in Falls Church, Va. He was a mem-
ber of Delta Tau Delta and the
‘Troubadours at W&L. During
World War II, he was an officer in
the Army Transportation Corps and
participated in amphibious opera-
tions at Salerno, Italy, in September
1943 receiving the Silver Star and
Purple Heart. He earned a law
degree from George Washington
University in 1953 and opened a
general practice in Washington,
D.C. Clarke retired earlier this year
after more than 30 years as general
counsel and a member of the board
of directors of Williams Industries, a
steel erection company, and of the
District of Columbia Property
Insurance Facility.

John W. Deyo °42,

owner and operator of OEM Auto
Parts, died April 15, 1995, in
Sumter, S.C. He was a member of
Phi Gamma Delta as well as Pi
Alpha Nu academic fraternity at
W&L. Deyo was a Navy veteran of
World War II and a former execu-
tive of the 3M and Skil corporations.

Robert O. Wilbur °42,

retired analytical chemist, died April
25, 1995, in Bound Brook, N.J. He
was a member of Lambda Chi Alpha
at W&L. He worked for American
Cyanamid in Bridgewater, N.J., for
38 years before retiring in 1981.
Wilbur was a volunteer at Somerset
Medical Center and an avid cyclist.

Joseph Van Zeldt Hellen °43,
retired Air Force lieutenant colonel,
died July 5, 1995, in Alexandria, Va.
He was a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha at W&L. Col. Hellen flew 54
combat missions over Europe as a B-
26 pilot during World War II and

also served in the Korean and
Vietnam wars. After moving to the
Washington (D.C.) area in 1975,
Hellen was vice president of an
office products company and co-
owner of an antique store.

William K. Sevier °43,

retired businessman and Naval avia-
tor, died April 8, 1995, in St
Petersburg, Fla. Sevier played foot-
ball at W&L and was a member of
Phi Gamma Delta. Sevier founded
and served as president of B&S
Concrete Supply and served a term
as mayor of Lawrenceburg, Tenn.,
from 1966-67. He retired from the
Navy with the rank of lieutenant
commander.

The Hon. Macon M. Long Jr.
'43L, retired Virginia judge, died
May 2, 1995, in Abingdon. Long
graduated from the University of
Richmond in 1940 before law school
at W&L. He was a member of the
Kappa Alpha Order and Phi Delta
Phi legal fraternity. Long served for
three years in the Army during
World War II before beginning his
law practice, and retired from the
bench in 1986 after sitting as a Wise
County circuit judge for 26 years.

James V. Giles ’44

died July 13, 1995, in Concord, Va.
Giles was a veteran of World War II,
during which he received the
Bronze Star. He graduated from
W&L with a degree in biology.

Barry Wright Jr. °44,

attorney and founding partner of the
law firm of Wright Walther &
Morgan, died Jan. 6, 1995, in Rome,
Ga. A member of Phi Delta Theta,
Wright received his degree from
W&L in absentia because of Naval
service during World War II. He
earned his law degree from the
University of Virginia and moved
back to Rome to practice law.
Wright served three terms in the
Georgia General Assembly, includ-
ing one term as a state senator.

Thomas C. Lee ’46,

retired electrical contractor, died
April 12, 1995, in Roanoke. A former
student body president at W&L,
Lee was a member of Kappa Sigma
and Omicron Delta Kappa. Before
retiring, he was assistant to the pres-
ident of the Davis H. Elliot Co.

Don R. Marsh Jr. °46,

retired paint executive, died Nov.
11, 1994, in Cockeysville, Md. He
was a Phi Kappa Sigma. A 40-year
veteran of the paint industry, he
retired in 1988 as district sales man-
ager for NL Industries. From 1972
to 1982, he was a partner with the
Stern and Marsh Co., a manufactur-
ers’ representative.

Robert E. Pogue ’46,
salesman, died June 18, 1995, in

Hyde Park, Ohio. He attended
W&L during the 1942-43 academic
year and was a B-17 pilot in the
Army Air Corps during World War
II. For almost half a century, Pogue
worked as a manufacturer’s repre-
sentative in the Cincinnati area.

Edmund §. Willis ’46,

retired president of Elgin
Electronics, died April 25, 1995, in
Waterford, Pa. Willis was a member
of Sigma Chi. After serving in the
Army Air Corps during World War
II, he returned to the Erie (Pa.) area,
where he served on the board of
directors of the First National Bank,
the Willis Co., Yates Manufacturing
Co., and Hamot Medical Center.

Thomas R. Watkins °47, ’50L,
retired real estate attorney, died
June 30, 1995, in Hampton, Va.
Watkins served in the Army Air
Corps during World War II before
attending W&L and was a member
of Pi Kappa Alpha. He was a partner
in the law firm of Patten, Wornom
and Watkins in Newport News, and
chaired the development authority
that brought the first industrial
parks to the Peninsula.

The Rev. Henry C. Barton Jr.
"50, retired Episcopal rector, died
July 4, 1995, in Spartanburg, S.C.
He was a Sigma Chi at W&L and
received a B.A. in economics. He
obtained a master’s in divinity from
the Virginia Theological Seminary.
He served as rector of churches in
Virginia, Alabama, and South
Carolina until his retirement from
Church of the Advent in 1990.

Alexander R. Hill ’50,

building products distributor, died
Aug. 19, 1995, in Memphis, Tenn.
He served in the Navy in the South
Pacific during World War II and was
a Sigma Nu and an All-American
lacrosse player at W&L. In 1963,
Hill founded Building Plastics Inc.,
with six employees. The company
today employs 210 people.

Thomas T. Tongue II ’50,
retired school administrator, died
April 26, 1995, in Oklahoma City.
He was a member of Delta Tau
Delta and the lacrosse team at
W&L. He served in the Marine
Corps during the Korean War and
eventually earned a master’s from
Trinity College. Tongue began his
career as a lacrosse coach at his for-
mer high school in Baltimore and
went on to teach history and coach
at Avon Old Farms School in
Connecticut. He later moved to
Oklahoma City where he taught at
Casady School and retired as assis-
tant to the headmaster and director
of admissions and summer programs.

Douglas M. Eger ’50L,
retired assistant director of claims
for the Washington (D.C.) Metro

Transit System, died April 15, 1995,
in Roanoke. Eger was a Navy veter-
an of World War II and a graduate of
Virginia Tech before attending law
school at W&L.

John P. Bowen Jr. 51,

writer and editor, died March 20,
1995, in Newport News, Va. Bowen
won several writing awards while at
W&L and went on to hold several
editorial positions with The Dai/y
Press and The Times-Herald in
Newport News. After retiring in
1985, Bowen devoted his time to
free-lance writing, including 10
books and a novel (These Primal
Years). A decorated veteran of the
Korean War, he traveled extensive-
ly, exploring most of the United
States and more than 80 countries.

Charles 8. Walden Jr. °51,
died July 2, 1995, in Beaumont,
Texas. He was a Sigma Chi at
W&L.

Judson B. Yerkes I1l °51,
retired businessman, died Feb. 11,
1995, in Jacksonville, Fla. He was
Phi Delta Theta at W&L. Yerkes
worked in the hardware industry
with Florida Hardware and later
with Carolina Lumber.

George V. Shanno °52,

retired advertising executive, died
June 9, 1995, in Paoli, Pa. Shanno
was a member of Phi Kappa Psi at
W&L and spent two years in the
Army after graduating. He was an
account executive and senior vice
president for the Philadelphia
advertising firm of Aitkyn-Kynett
and subsequently manager of adver-
tising and sales promotion at AMP
Inc. before retiring in 1992. In
recent years, he devoted much of
his time to researching Rittenhouse
Town, the site of the country’s first
paper mill in Fairmont Park, Pa.

Robert D. Richards °52L,
retired attorney, died May 7, 1994,
in Lynchburg. Richards graduated
from Hampden-Sydney in 1949 and
was a Sigma Chi at W&L. He prac-
ticed law in Lynchburg with the
firm of Edmunds & Williams for 40
years before retiring in 1994.

William B. Smith ’56L,
attorney and former West Virginia
state Senator, died April 15, 1995, in
Clarksburg. Smith received his
undergraduate degree from Marshall
University and was a member of
Law Review at W&L. He served as
assistant attorney general for West
Virginia from 1957 to 1961 and as
state welfare commissioner from
1961 to 1967 under Gov. W.W.
Barron. Smith was then elected to
the W.Va. Senate in 1968 and served
until 1971. In 1982, he won a land-
mark case before the state Supreme
Court, prompting then-Gov. Jay
Rockefeller to lead a successful
effort to amend the state constitu-

54

tion to limit property tax assess-
ments to 60 percent.

Ryland H. Hubbard '58,
owner and operator of J. Berna Sales
Co., died Aug. 16, 1995, in Roanoke.

David W. Flegal 59,

retired founder and president of
Kuser House, a business consulting
company, died June 7, 1995, in
Bernardsville, N.J. He was a Sigma
Alpha Epsilon at W&L and an offi-
cer in the Coast Guard from 1959 to
1963. Flegal served as vice president
of marketing of Block Drug Co.
before founding Kuser House.

William A. Hedges ’59L,
retired attorney, died Jan. 31, 1995,
in Bandon, Ore. Hedges attended
law school at W&L and later
received his law degree from
Northwestern School of Law in
Portland, Ore. He retired in 1993.

James R. Hickman ’60,
technology manager, died May 14,
1995, in Richmond. Hickman was a
member of Delta Upsilon at W&L
as well as several honorary academic
fraternities. He received his mas-
ter’s and doctoral degrees from
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute,
where he taught electrical engineer-
ing until 1971. He was a technology
director for companies in Texas and
New York before returning to the
Washington area in 1988. He was
director of technology for Dynatech
Corp. until last year, when he joined
WIN Laboratories in Manassas, Va.,
as technology manager.

James A. Bowersox Jr. '66,
former commercial manager for
C&P Telephone, died June 20,
1995, in Washington Grove, Md. He
was a member of Kappa Alpha
Order and both the lacrosse and
football teams while at W&L.

Carlisle M. Landreth ’69,
owner of Talent Agency, died July
31, 1995, in Greenville, S.C. He was
a member of Lambda Chi Alpha and
the Glee Club while at W&L.

Peter C. Manson Jr. °69, °73L,
attorney, died July 6, 1995, in
Virginia Beach. Manson specialized
in civil litigation with the firm of
Taylor & Walker. He was an active
member of many legal associations
and was past president of the Va.
Association of Defense Attorneys.

W. Fletcher McClintock ’86L,
pension plan consultant, died Sept.
17, 1995, in Dallas. He earned his
B.A. in economics and history from
the University of Texas.

Ralph A. Walter ’86L,
attorney, died July 7, 1995, in
France. Walter received his B.A. in
history from Bowdoin College
before attending law school at
W&L. A corporate attorney with
Whitman, Breed, Abbott & Morgan

in New York he had been posted to
the Banque Indo-Suez in Paris by
the firm. A Brooklyn native, Walters
worked to save the historic Ven-
dome, the borough’s first freestand-
ing residential hotel, from demolition.

Outi Maenpaa ‘88,
a former W&L exchange student,
died in August 1994 in Finland.

Ashley Hammond '93,

a 1992 exchange student from
Sweet Briar and governmental aide
in Washington, D.C., died Nov. 29,
1994. Hammond spent the fall 1992
term at W&L. At Sweet Briar, she
was a member of the diving and
lacrosse teams as well as College
Republicans chair and junior class
treasurer. She worked in the U.S.
Senate for the Republican Policy
Committee.

Scipio Thomas Jr. 96L,

law student and former newspaper
journalist, died July 9, 1995, in
Lexington, Va. The Des Moines
native received his B.A. in journal-
ism from the University of Iowa in
1981 and began his career as a
reporter with the S¢. Louis Globe-
Democrat. He later worked for the
Dallas Times-Herald, the Dayton
Daily News, and the Cincinnati
Enquirer. While studying law,
Thomas was an intern in the public
defender’s office in Staunton.

Missing Persons

The following individuals are
listed as “unlocated” in
Washington and Lee’s alumni
records. If you have a current
address for any of these
alumni, please do us—and
them—a favor and send word
to the Alumni Office, Wash-
ington and Lee University,
Lexington, VA, 24450
(E-mail: jbsmith@wlu.edu).

Class of ’46

Alden Scott Anderson Jr.
Alan Bauer

Stephen Girard Earle Cooley
William D. Cooper

Roland E. Cote

Thomas E. Houston
Thomas F. Leatherwood Jr.
Ramon Rafael Luina
Robert H. Lynn

Charles S. Powell Jr.

Daniel R. Reason

John J. Steitz Il

James E. Thompson
Robert D. W. Vroom Jr.
William Ray Winder

Albert H. Woodruff

Class of ’51

David F. Arentz

Robert Hayes Brown
Robert A. Connaughton
Frank White Drake Jr.
Charles H. Forbes Jr.
James B. Frizzell
Raymond W. Henry
John A. Herring

Gerold I. Holen

Bruce L. Huntwork
Edmund Strachan Pendleton
Joe J. Sconce

Leland Hart Sebring
Johnson S. Slaughter
Wallace B. Thacker
William R. Walton III
Earl Wilson Watts Jr.

Class of ’51L

Frank Emerson Beverly
Allen Bondurant Carter
Robert C. Evans
William F. O'Neil
Charles Edward Viar

Class of ’56

Herman J. Baker

John LeGrand Bird Jr.
Franklin James Carter
Charles O. Dawson II
Robert S. Delligatti

Peter Erlinghagen

Joel F. Fields

William M. Greene
Owen G. Harned Jr.
Nelson Vance Harper Jr.
Charles C. Leidy

Bruce Alan Macdonald
Donald Bruce McArthur
Carl P. McCoy

Glenn Dean McKnight Jr.
John Alexander McQuiggan
Philip D. Monger
William Mills Neal Jr.
Orville Carlton Paynter
John R. Pipkin

Richard Alan Rosenberg
William W. Roush
Robert G. Schultz
Edward Dyer Sipler IV
David Wayne Slingerland
Henry F. Smith
Raymond Stults Jr.

Joel M. Walker

Gary H. Whitfield

Class of ’56L

Harry J. Fisher

Class of ’61

James Harvey Allen Jr.
William Bradshaw Beverley
Anthony L. Brennan

Jon W. Burger

David B. Deuel

Joseph Clifton Elgin Jr.
Albert Gramm Folcher Jr.
David M. Gibson

John B. Gray III
Clemens Earl Gunn Jr.
Alfred Harrison

Victor K. Lasseter

Elwin W. Law

Richard B. Mahoney
Frank Ervin Mower Il

 

 

7 ohn E. Muendel

William H. Snyder
George H. Sutherlin
Verling Alastair Votaw
Robert J. Walters Jr.
Richard J. Wells

Class of “OL

phillip Leventhal
John G. O’Brien

Glass of '66

Ralph Richardson Beard
Jan-Erik Berg

David E. Bowles

James Gregg Buckey
Carson C. Carlisle
Samuel Joseph Chesnut III
Francis V. Covucci
Jerome Lloyd Croston Jr.
George Todd Crowell Jr.
John E. Curran

Richard Frank Danzansky
John Henry Freeman
Daniel B. Garrett
Michael Taylor Goode
William Kirk Hampson
Ronnie Wayne Kasperik
Richard K. Kearns Jr.
Michael L. Lewis

Daniel W. Lindsey III
David N. Marchese
David Philip Miller

John Claude W. Morse
James A. Murray

John Eric Mynttinen
James Harlan Redington
Charles H. Roadman II
Joseph L. Rosenbloom III
Hugo Rutherford Jr.
William E. Stevenson
Robert E. Urie

Howard T. Ware III
Wayne Forrest Woody
Jack B. Wood

Kim P. Ladewig

Jeffrey N. Sheehan

Class of ’66L

Francis Edward Kennedy Jr.
Ronald William Sommer
John D. Streetman

Class of ’71

Lawrence C. Barber Jr.
Robert Jamil Baroody
Patrick A. Barry
Padric N. Behan
Peter V, Berg Jr.
Michael P. Berry
John D. Boardman Jr.
John J.P. Botcheller
Craig Sherwood Bow
Rowland H. Burns Jr.
Matthew W. Cliett
liam Theophilus Cooper III
Duglas Bruce Deaton
liam Todd DeVan Jr.
Cyrus I. Dillon ITI
©mas L. Douthit
teven T. Gates
Villiam W. Graham
chard William Greene

—

‘Thomas Carroll Greenwood
Herbert M. Griffith III
Michael L. Hasty

George Norman Hemperley
Thomas E. Hilton

James R. Hunt

Charles E. Hunter Jr.
Franc Joseph Kauer
Douglas P. Keats

Kim Cabot Kyle

John Tucker Lamkin
Danny Lee Lewis

Alva Moore Lumpkin III
Gordon Scott Macrae
Mark S. McKinney
Chester Arthur Mehurin Jr.
John K. Ossi II

William S. Peek Jr.
Carroll Harry Ricker
John S. Rodemeir
Andrew H. Schneider
Walter B. Simmons II
Davis Page Smith III
Robert DeWitt Smith
William S. Strain

James Edward Townsend
William Joseph C. Turner
E. Peyton Vickers

Robert R. Weed

Fred L. Williams III
Gerald David Wood

Class of ?71L

Frank Grover Selbe III

Class of ’76

Michael Lewis Anania
John Felix Arnold Jr.
Ronald Louis Atwood
Jeffrey Michael Baker

W. Stephen Baker

Ernest Watson Bartlett III
Edward I. Bennett

Paul Douglas Buckland
Mark Randall Chambers
George James Clark
Conrad Eugene Coffield Jr.
Christopher John Cull
David Lewis Darrall
Andrew F. Dickens
Edward William Durner
Aly Mahmoud E]I-Tahry
John Wayne Evans
Edward Lee Fisher
William Charles Gonch III
Joseph F. Gravlee Jr.
Ronald E. Harr

Darrell Lynn Havener Jr.
Gordon Brock Johnson
David R. Jones

Mark E. Kane

Robert P. Lee

John T. Lopategui
Kenneth Luskay

Richard Farr MacDowell Jr.
Roy Lee Martin

Kenneth Otis McCreedy
Daniel G. McGirin

James Brent Miller

David Raleigh Minton
David Terrill Moore
Michael Joe Moore
Robert F. Murchison
Bryan Anthony Parker
Robert Elwood Patterson

James Brainard Preston Jr.
William R. Ripley Jr.

lan A. Rodihan

William Joseph Rudy
David L. Saltzman

Cary Alan Schneider
Scott I. Silverlight
Thomas Michael Stritch Jr.
James V. Telling

C. Allen Tharp

Gary Vanhassent

Patrick Joseph White
Stephen B. White

Allan Roger Will

Willie Bob Wingfield
James Arthur Yergin Jr.

Class of ?76L

Killis Thurman Howard
Teresa Annette Johnson
Eric Clinton Stamets

Class of ’81

Wayne Michael Atchison
Jeffrey Scott Blanchard

J. Ward Boult

Thomas Daniel Breentes
Julian F. Breslin

William Emerson Brock IV
William Craig Burns
James Sands Campbell
Arthur Stoney Cantler
Kennelm Marcien Cassell
Karl Jai Cheatham
William Frederick Collins
John F. Dorsey

Eldon Steven Dummit III
Bennett Nicholas Easton
George Lee Echols III
Clarke S. Edgar

David S. Edward

Marc S. Firestone

Richard Allan Formato Jr.
Edward Robert Foy
Steven Clay Groh
Clarence Paul Gubbins IV
David Franklin Harris
Lesley Prince Heart

John Wells Herbert
James Franklin Hicks III
Robert W. Holliday Jr.
Reeves Hughes III

James Gregory Hurley Jr.
Jon Christian Kalfs

Craig William Kennelly
Richard Peter Kenney
Kevin Kent Leonard
Bradley Alan Lewis
William Dominic Lyons
Nicholas Rees Martin
Kevin B. McCormack
Louis A. McDonough Jr.
Brian Timothy McMahon
William Matthew McNearney
Thomas Stoneman Modjeski
Ronald Scott Moore
Richard Stanford Morrison
William Paul Myers
William J. Neuenschwander
Robert Stephen Palmer
Howell Watson Perkins
Morgan Wingate Pritchett
Douglas Richard Reas
Joseph Robles

Alan Meredith Ruley

John Karl Schmidt

John William Scott
William Blewett Sherwin
Robert Van Sisk Jr.
James Welcher Stewart II
James Wade Taylor
Lawrence Ben Weiner

Class of ’81L

Thomas E. Martin
John Austin Moran
Susan Lynne Pilcher

Class of ’86

Steven David Barbery
Michael Keith Bayer
Michael Arthur-George Berg
Mark Anthony Bertolini
William Richard Cashion III
James Edward Culnane
John Robert Cusack

Peter Spotswood Dillard
David Kenny Dodd

Aubrey Judson Ellis Jr.
Mark Nathan Fishman
David Allen Ford

Kenneth Neal Jacoby

John Joel James

Bryan Keith Johnson
Gaylord Johnson III
Christopher Leva

Miles Jan Lota

Mark O’Neil Machonis
Edward Ray Manning

David Lawrence Moose
John Blake O'Neill

Michael Thomas Phillips
Edward Augustus Richardson
Mark Terrell Sampson
Thomas Gybbon Spilsbury
Timothy Duane Thomas
David Dorsey Thompson
Christopher Alexander Wilson
Richard William Zahn Jr.

Class of ’86L

Lamont Carr
Anne Kendall Montouri

Class of ’91

Anton Anatolievich Antokhin
Anne Austin Armentrout
Preston Watts Brown
Andrew Dale Bunger
Catharine Ashley Caldwell
Patricia Schenck Carr

Amy Wright Coates

Wade Harrison Coleman Jr.
Mignon Comer Crockard
Khamla Leah Dhouti
Laura Washington Dodge
Lisa Kei Frantz

Maxim Vitaljevich Gan
Paula Maria Gregg

Ronald Scott Katz

Steven Miller Martin Jr.
Constance Papazickos
Andrew Watson Waters
Gena Rae Woolner

Class of °91L

Scott Allen Riley

W¥ inz=at It Was,
Was Baseball

Shoeless Joe author W.P. Kinsella joins a broadcaster, a manager,
and a retired player and coach on an Alumni College dream team

Baseball is a game that transcends
time, that lends itself to American histo-
ry and culture like no other sport.
Baseball has given us heroes, characters,
monuments, and problems (most
notably the Chicago Black Sox scandal
in 1919 and the labor unrest that leaves
a black mark on the game today). But
baseball has survived. And for seven
days in July, 30 alumni and friends of
Washington and Lee came to campus to
learn more about our national pastime.

The brainchild of history professor
Barry Machado, athletic director Mike
Walsh, and special programs director
Rob Fure, “Baseball and the American
Culture” was conceived last fall on the
heels of Ken Burns’ acclaimed docu-
mentary for PBS. As the idea became
reality, the trio assembled an Alumni
College faculty that covered all the
bases: A major league general manager.
A legendary broadcaster. The foremost
baseball fiction writer in America. And a
retired player and coach from the era of
Williams and DiMaggio.

If you teach it, they will come.

W.P. Kinsella, the author of Shoe/ess
Joe and Box Socials and perhaps base-
ball’s most highly acclaimed fictional
chronicler, models most of his characters
after actual players and then lets his
imagination go to work. What emerges Is
a “magic realism” where long-dead ball
players walk out of a cornfield and play
a game of baseball on a freshly created
field. “That’s just the way my mind
works,” Kinsella told the Alumni
College assembly. “I have always had
strange twists in my fiction.”

In bringing “Shoeless” Joe Jackson to
life for his novel Shoeless Joe, which in
turn spawned the movie Fie/d of Dreams,
the writer helped transform the sleepy
midwestern town of Diresville, lowa,
into a tourist hot spot. More than 200,000

56

people a year visit the town of 3,800—
all to see the field created for the film.

Ned Martin spent 32 years in the
Boston Red Sox broadcast booth as a
radio and TV announcer, retiring in
1992. He was behind the mike in 1961
when Yankee slugger Roger Maris hit
his record-setting 61st home run and
was along for the ride when Boston
streaked to the pennant in 1967. He
made one of the most memorable calls
in baseball history while broadcasting
the 1975 World Series for NBC: “If it’s
fair, it’s gone” —Carlton Fisk’s dramatic,
game-winning home run in Game Six.

Martin speaks eloquently of Yas-
trzemski, Carbo, and Tiant, and can still
captivate an audience with his trade-
mark voice made famous throughout
New England. Growing up in suburban
Philadelphia, he watched the likes of
Jimmy Foxx and Mickey Cochrane play
in their prime for the Phillies. Martin
was “as offended as anybody else” by
the rift between labor and management
that resulted in the cancellation of the
1994 Series, “but baseball is a game that
can withstand shooting itself in the
foot,” he said. “It is the most beautiful
game there is and it is a game we can
come back to—if we ever left.”

Oakland Athletics president and gen-
eral manager Sandy Alderson gave the
seminar something rare, something the
average fan doesn’t get to experience—
interaction with modern-day baseball
management. Alderson spoke candidly
about the ills of baseball and offered
solutions for its problems. But he also
spoke about the joy he draws from the
game, joy that goes beyond making
money and winning championships.

“I get more pleasure going to out-of-
the-way places like Grays Harbor,
Wash., where you have 300 to 400 peo-
ple watching a Cuban pitcher who has

 

recently defected,” Alderson said.
“That is what’s fun about baseball. It’s
going to minor league cities, seeing peo-
ple enjoy the game at the grassroots
level, and seeing players who still enjoy
the game for what it is.” 4

His words hit a home run with alu
“Alderson gives us a ray of hope,” said
Pete Muhlenberg ’50. “He’s a very sen-
sitive and genuine individual—aeypieal
of club executives in the modern era.” c |

Tony Lupien played for the Red Sox,
Phillies, and White Sox during the 1940s
and then spent four years as a player-
manager in the minor leagues. He went
on to coach at Dartmouth College from
1957 until 1977, where he instructed
two young players by the names of
Sandy Alderson and Barry Machado. |

Whether he was telling stories of
Brooklyn Dodgers manager Branch
Rickey and commissioner Kenesaw
Landis or speaking of the need to
“revive youth baseball in America,”
Lupien captured the hearts and minds
of the audience. “The love of the game
really came through with him,” says
Jack Cover ’63. “He has really lived it.”

An authority on U.S. foreign policy
and a baseball aficionado, Barry
Machado rounded out the seminar’s bat
ting order with his own insights on the |
history of baseball and the formative _
years of the sport. “For someone who is
a great admirer of baseball, to have
access to all these people is incredible,”
he said when it was all over. “To see 4
picture of Tony Lupien tagging out Joe
DiMaggio, to hear Ned Martin S voice,
it’s an amazing experience.” |

Could it have been better? “That's |
like asking Lefty O’Doul what he woul
do differently after hitting 398," a
Machado said with a laugh. “Thin
went so well, it would be gluttonous
ask for more.” —By Matt Jennings °93

  
 
 
 

 

‘The Washington and Lee University
ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Lexington, Virginia 24450

anebara J. Brown
a

oe
teyburn Library
ieyburn iprary

 

 

Photo: Arne Kuhimann ‘97

Picture perfect: George Washington (actor William

Sommerfield) drops in for a campaign celebration.

 

Non-Profit Org,
U.S. Postage
P A i
Permit + 161

Lynchburg, VA

