 

 

ag etkex

an ra) oe a

   

a ~
SRN SS

- ee ae a

   
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

—
- —
ee
. ee
————
om eel
———
 —
——7
ae
a Se
Se ane
ecm
—
—_a———
—

 

 

 

 

 

 

Serene eee

—_———
ener eens tee ee ee

ae

ws
—

wo
—

—_—

—_—

ee

   
 
 
 
    
 

or
ed

 

  
       

WINTER 1995

  

 

reiaeerewe. * —_
ote fm ee Nt ies =

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAT UGS

10 / Gerry Vision.
Gerry Lenfest 53, chairman of the Campaign for Washington and Lee,

is one of the shrewdest dealers in cable—and a major player Down Under.

15 / Drive-By Shootings.
Annual Fund director Peter Cronin ’84 exposes another side of development—

namely, film development—with these images of the Shenandoah Valley.

19 / Sniff ‘n’ Scratch.

The science behind the smell: Professor Tyler Lorig and his students
explore the frontiers of fragrance in the labs of Washington and Lee.

24 /Honor Among Crabs.
Think it’s easy doing business in post- NAFTA Mexico? Dan Aston ’77

lost his crabmeat and his GMC Suburban, but he never lost his principles.

29 / Great Coffee, Great People.

If you’re looking for energetic and successful alumni at the highest

corporate and civic levels, look no further than Birmingham, Ala.

DEPARTMENT

2 / From the Alumni President.

It takes a team effort—and a great leader—to run a successful University.

3 / Letters.

Emily Pearse is remembered as a true Southern lady with perfect pitch.
Also: unanswered questions for President Wilson and Cy Twombly.

6 / The Colonnade.

Mock Convention solicitations; Dr. Leyburn’s communications;

Andrew Schneider’s taste sensations; and Rush Limbaugh Sr.’s revelations.

34 /W&L Law.

Law meets literature at Lewis Hall; O.J.’s lawyer talks acquittal on campus.

36 / The Generals’ Report.
Records fall like autumn leaves for W&L’s athletic squads,

thanks in no small part to a fabulous freshman foursome.

40 / Alumni News.

A “Sentimental Journey” for wartime alumni takes shape for this fall.

Also: the W&L connections to the college bow! picture; Annual Fund tallies.

44 / Class Notes.
Bob Hilton °39 spreads the word; ‘Ted (51) and Tad (’77) Van Leer taste
bittersweet victory; and Robert Wilson °73 brings Civi/ization to your mailbox.

56 / Last Word.

Col. Paul Murphy °49 learns a new trade to save an old river.

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY

eae peg ie On the Cover: W&L’s king of cable, H.F. “Gerry” Lenfest ’53,

Zone
FEB 9 % 1895

is photographed at his Pottstown (Pa.) office by Eve Morra.

AKCH
29d Jaz
é b- (Qa
J3/7al@

Vv. GF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

A. Stevens Miles Jr. 51, Rector
John D. Wilson, President

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI INC,
OFFICERS

Robert K. Wittpenn ‘82

President (Peapack, N.J.)

E. Neal Cory Il ‘77

Vice President (Louisville, Ky.)

James D. Farrar Jr. ‘74

Secretary and Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

Robert W.H. Mish Ill ‘76

Associate Director of Alumni Programs
(Lexington, Va.)

DIRECTORS

Michael D. Armstrong *77 (Atlanta, Ga.)

R.K. Barton III °63 (Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.)
Walter S. Blake ’72 (Dallas, Texas)

T. Talbott Bond °51 (Baltimore, Md.)

Matthew J. Calvert '75, °79L (Richmond, Va.)
Ben S. Gambill Jr. 67 (Nashville, Tenn.)

B. Dallas Hagewood °90 (Aclanta, Ga.)

J. Michael Jenkins III °64 (Montgomery, Ala.)

H. Drake Leddy °71 (San Antonio, Texas)

Henry “Skip” Nottberg II] °71 (Kansas City, Mo.)
Alexa A. Salzman °89 (San Francisco, Calif.)
Jackson R. Sharman III °83 (Washington, D.C.)
Hatton C.V. Smith °73 (Birmingham, Ala.)

J.E. “Jet” Taylor II °84 (Walnut Creek, Calif.)
James M. Turner Jr. °67, °71L (Roanoke, Va.)
Tinkham Veale III ’69 (Devon, Pa.)

H. William Walker Jr. °68, °71L (Miami, Fla.)
Donald W. Weir Jr. °72 (Shreveport, La.)

LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
OFFICERS

Thomas McN. Millhiser ’81L
President (Richmond, Va.)
James C. Treadway Jr. ’67L
Vice President (New York, N.Y.)

LAW COUNCIL

Charles M. Berger 68L (Charlotte, N.C.)

Alfred J.T. Byrne *65, ’68L (Washington, D.C.)
James M. Costan ’74L (Washington, D.C.)
Robert M. Couch °78, ’82L (Birmingham, Ala.)
William R. Goodell *80L (Atlanta, Ga.)
Theodore D. Grosser ’77L (Cincinnati, Ohio)
Robin P. Hartmann ’71L (Dallas, Texas)

Milton T. Herndon *56L (Charleston, W.Va.)
The Hon. William B. Hill Jr. 74, °77L (Adianta, Ga.)
Carol L. Hoshall ’83L (Alexandria, Va.)

John D. Klinedinst ’71, °78L (San Diego, Calif.)
Tabor R. Novak Jr. ’66, °69L (Montgomery, Ala.)
Dana C. Petersen ’82L (Baltimore, Md.)

The Hon. W. Ray Price ’78L (Jefferson City, Mo.)
Laurie A. Rachford °84L (Houston, Texas)
David D. Redmond 66, ’69L (Richmond, Va.)
B. Cary Tolley III ’78L (Darien, Conn.)

Patricia A. Van Allan ’80L (Houston, Texas)
Wilson F. Vellines Jr. 68, ’°73L (Staunton, Va.)
John A. Wolf 69, °72L (Baltimore, Md.)

From the Alumni President

Team Players

 
   
  
  
 
   
 

One of the things I enjoy most about my work with the Washington and
Alumni Board is our meetings on campus twice a year, on Homecoming and Aly
weekends. It is always great to be back on campus and there are, of course, all] ¢
requisite activities that accompany these big weeker
on the University calendar. In addition, the Alu
Board spends a good deal of time meeting with and he
ing from University officials, administration, and fae |
as well as other alumni volunteers and students.

The feeling I always come away with—and it’s sor

 

 

thing my fellow directors agree on—is managing a
versity is an incredibly complex task, one th
Washington and Lee performs extremely well. I wish
of you could experience the Alumni Board’s front-
seat and behind-the-scenes view of Washington and Le

It takes many people to operate a university, espec
ly to do so with the skill and personal attention of Wa
ington and Lee. The admissions staffs of both the ]
and undergraduate school fill the campus with the best and brightest students, wh«
the deans and faculty guide and shape in the pursuit of knowledge. Coaches pro
one of many extracurricular classrooms. ‘The Buildings and Grounds crew keeps ¢
campus looking its best. The Dining Hall folks make sure that students and visit
alike are well-fed. ‘he University Relations group, including the alumni, commu
cations, and development offices, keeps us in touch with our @/ma mater while we
ing to secure the resources necessary to maintain our institutional goals. The treas
er’s and business offices manage our fiscal resources so that we can continue to of
one of America’s best values among national liberal arts colleges.

Credit for Washington and Lee’s excellence among educational institutions g
to many people. On any team there is a leader, and much of the credit for the suce
of our Washington and Lee team goes to President John Wilson.

Wilson’s tenure has seen the construction of the Lenfest Center for the Perfor
ing Arts, Gaines Hall dormitory, and the Watson Pavilion for Asian Arts. Ackné
ledging the importance of history and tradition of the University, Wilson advocat
Fraternity Renaissance and worked to truly strengthen the Greek system while ot
schools were taking the easy way out and abolishing fraternities altogether. Wi
saw W&L through undergraduate coeducation—a challenging yet vital step to ens
the University’s future strength, and one that has been accomplished very well.

President Wilson’s stewardship of Washington and Lee’s physical, academic,
cal, and historical resources is indeed palpable. Just as there will eventually bef
students, new faculty, new courses taught, and new buildings built, the Boare
‘Trustees will soon name a new president—the University’s 22nd.

We are grateful for the work John has done on behalf of Washington and
Throughout his tenure, John has been very respectful of those who have gone bet
him while also being “not unmindful of the future.” As alumni looking towards
250th birthday and beyond, we too, must be non incautus futuri. As we start yet ane
er chapter in the life of Washington and Lee I trust we can count on you for your €
tinued support, interest, and encouragement.

 
  
   
  
   
   
    
   
  
    
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
   
  
  

Robert K. Wittpenn ’82
President, W@L Alumni Association

.
Letters

Leader of the Club

The headlines on all the obituaries
for my friend Bill Pusey (In Memoriam,
page 55) described him as an ex-profes-
sor of German.

Well, yes. As Dr. Leyburn had been a
professor of sociology; as Bob Huntley
caught law.

I never took a course in German, so
the headline I’d have written would
have been more along these lines: W.W.
Pusey II Dies at 84: Soul and Personality of
Washington and Lee. Or perhaps a head-
line in the language of the business
world: Led Successful Program as Dean,
Acting President to Re-engineer WEL.

On reflection, my headlines would
have been a bit much for the commer-
cial media. What is incontestable, how-
ever, are these three remarkable ele-
ments of Bill Pusey’s legacy.

1. You don’t have to go to W&L to earn a
place in the WEL pantheon. As in all major
religions, converts to W&Lism often
become its most ardent and articulate
proponents, and Dean Pusey is an out-
standing example. He went to Haver-
ford and Columbia—not exactly disad-
vantages, surely, but circumstances that
sealed his fate less inevitably than (for
example) attending W&L did mine. In
the ranks of non-alumni who’ve left
their permanent imprints on W&L, he
joins Dr. Gaines, Dean Leyburn, Jim
Whitehead, the namesakes of nearly
every building on campus, and a dozen
others. Not to mention W. and L. them-
selves, of course.

2. Clubs are incredibly important. Vm
not sure why. They just are. I know a
woman who quite overtly evaluates peo-
ple on their “clubbability”—that is,
Whether she’d want to belong to the
same club. Bill Pusey belonged to every
club you can imagine. He was the first
man to join the Rockbridge County
League of Women Voters (in this, as in
nearly everything he did, he was
Mspired by a certain puckishness, in
addition to noble motives of duty). He

also belonged to the Fortnightly, a Lex-
ington scholars’ discussion group that
expected its members to commit serious
research and prepare papers worthy of
publication, which the group would dis-
cuss and criticize; and he was an officer
of the Pub Club, whose purpose and
meetings were only a little less elegant.

But for my money, Bill Pusey gets
the Clubbability Trophy for having
founded the Foxstick Hiking Club, a
group of gentlemen (back in the days
when that was permissible) who went
out on Sunday afternoons, whenever it
wasn’t too wet, too hot, or too cold.

The Foxstick Club embraced all
manner of former boys, from the mayor
and the editor of the local newspaper to
various W&L colleagues. Bill Pusey was
‘Trailmaster-in-Perpetuity. On our hikes
we all carried Foxsticks (weapons in
case we ever encountered a fox, which
mercifully never happened), and we
congratulated ourselves on our modest
perambulatory accomplishments with a
swig or more of Foxnip, the recipe to
which I assume he took with him to the
next world. (I hope he did; none of us
has it here.)

3. And so is civility. This is the single
attribute that I think his friends most
closely associate with Bill Pusey. It’s the
value that he always said is the most
important in the world—and the most
endangered.

At Washington and Lee, he personi-
fied it. He and his wife of 50 years, Mary
Hope, who died four years ago, con-
stantly entertained students as well as
faculty in their storybook home, where
more than a few of us encountered our
first (and for most, our last) finger bowls.

But Bill Pusey’s civility went well
beyond social gatherings. I think his
constant concern for civility resulted
from a combination of instinct, intellect,
and environment. I doubt that he ever
met anyone he didn’t like, and if he did,
you never could tell, which is probably a
pretty good start at defining the term.

So I'll miss Bill Pusey a lot—for all
the reasons we always miss friends who
die, but for these other three as well.

Robert Keefe ’68
New York City

Is He or Isn't He?

Robert Mottley’s portrait of John
Wilson (Fall 1994) is probably as close as
our A/umni Magazine will ever come to
grappling with the legacy of our outgo-
ing president. The article captures the
Wilson that many of us remember fond-
ly: the adoptive son of the South whose
love for W&L is beyond impeachment
and the aloof academic whose eccentric-
ities of dress and habit possess an
endearing quality. ‘’o know Wilson is to
develop an appreciation for the intro-
verted stoic who absorbs his critics’
attacks with a sincere bewilderment.

There is, however, the proverbial
other side. It is the Wilson whose admit-
ted “elitism” led him to defend the
Confidential Review Committee and
law school military recruitment ban. It is
the Wilson whose confessed “micro-
management” has overwhelmed faculty
department heads and whose bent for
documentation had diminished a once-
pervasive trust and comradery among
professors—necessitating an ever-bur-
geoning “administrati.” And it is the
Wilson whose quick Irish temper has
thrust the University into precarious
positions and has alienated many stu-
dents, faculty, and alumni from their
president.

Perhaps Wilson is not some political-
ly correct monolith who has rent Wash-
ington and Lee from her tradition-rich
past. But if so, why the preoccupation
with convincing alumni that he isn’t and
he hasn’t?

Cameron Humphries °93
Manhattan Beach, Calif.

A True Southern Lady

I read with sadness of the passing of
Emily Penick Pearse. While I attended
law school at Washington and Lee, I had
the pleasure of serving as student cura-
tor of Lee Chapel. Many of my fondest
memories of that job were from my daily
contacts with the cadre of ladies who
worked at the chapel with me. Emily
Pearse burst upon the scene in 1969,
just as I started my second year as cura-

3

tor, and imbued me with the love of my
University, and General Lee, which I
continue to feel to this day.

Once, while visiting with her at her
home in Nags Head, N.C., we attended
Easter Sunday services together.
Unhappy with the organist, who was
closing the service with a rather pathetic
version of “Jesus Christ is Risen Today,”
Emily, who was an accomplished organ-
ist, rushed from the pew and made her
way to the balcony and literally pushed
the organist aside and the organ echoed
forth with her beautiful rendition of the
same song.

Emily was in every sense of the word
a true Southern lady and shall be greatly
missed.

Robert Austin Vinyard ’70L
Abingdon, Va.

Your notice of the death of Emily
E.P. Pearse and the intriguing and
evocative photograph accompanying it
(Fall 1994) beg elaboration from those
who knew her even slightly.

At the time I knew her, in the late
1970s, Mrs. Pearse was one of the most
striking people in Lexington, not the
least due to a complexion, high-coloring,
gaze and luxuriant white hair which sug-
gested, in a radiant and more lively
manner, the look of Queen Victoria in
later portraits. She had, in fact, the same
look of penetrating and alert intelli-
gence much remarked by biographers of
the Queen Empress—the famous “drill
eye” which, in Mrs. Pearse’s case, was
accompanied by an equally “drill ear” of
perfect pitch. She was adamant about
the tuning of the Lee Chapel organ and
could often be heard to say, for instance,
that the G or F was “not right.”

Mrs. Pearse, who insisted on student
friends using her Christian name, led a
very full and fascinating life which she
could relate with buoyant anecdote and
wit. As a girl, she had known Mary
Custis Lee and was fond of one story
concerning General Lee’s daughter and
her father, University treasurer Paul
Penick, which explained something of
the origins of her own wit. “I was fright-
ened of Mary Custis Lee as a child,” she
said, “and thought her a horrible old

maid which, of course, she wasn’t really,
but to a child she would seem that way.
One day she came into my father’s
office and began to lecture him about
where she intended to be buried. She
had a black parasol and pointed it at my
father’s chest and said she wanted him
to understand that she expected him to
make sure she was buried in Lexington.
He looked her straight in the eye and
said, ‘Miss Mary Custis, nothing would
give me greater pleasure than to see that
you are buried in Lexington.’ ”

By her account, Mrs. Pearse’s life in
Washington was no less interesting and,
in the late 1930s, she housed the family
of Baron von Trapp after their escape
from Austria. She had a genuine appre-
ciation for high-spiritedness and retold
with unabashed glee of young men she
had known filling the reflecting pools
and fountains along the Washington
Mall with soap powders.

This affinity for high spirits actually
transcended many decades of cultural
change. In the winter of 1976, she
offered me a ticket to the Rockbridge
Concert Theater Series and said she
would come pick me up at my dormitory
room before going to a recital at VMI.
Aghast that she might be witness to
either the roughhouse or lewdness
endemic to Gilliam and Graham-Lees in
those days, I quickly arranged a ren-
dezvous for another place. I apologized
to her for having to do this, but she let
me know good-naturedly that she
“knew all about sons,” had grown up
around Washington and Lee and; like
Kipling, knew that young men in bar-
racks would not be angels.

Several years later, I encountered
Mrs. Pearse at her station in Lee
Chapel, recuperating from a broken leg
which was the result of a fall on an icy
street a few days before Easter. At that
time, she was serving as the interim
organist for the Baptist church and,
rather than disappoint the congregation,
she played for the Easter services, sus-
tained throughout, according to a then-
current story, by ammonia capsules.
Setting a leg was clearly secondary to
doing out the duty.

On another occasion, she related to
me her experiences at the United

 
   
  
 
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
    
   
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
   

Daughters of the Confederacy con
tion, held in Alexandria that y
Apparently Mrs. Pearse, who, inci,
tally, possessed a clarion of VOice
great force and volume when requ;
and a half-dozen of her friends bee
trapped in an elevator during a to
the Masonic Memorial. “Well, ,
never heard such noise from so yp
ridiculous old women, thinking ¢
were going to be killed or some gs
nonsense, so I told them right then
there to be quiet. What would Ger
Lee have done, if he had been stue
an elevator? He would not start secre
ing and crying like this, I said. J
never so ashamed of anyone as I y
those women carrying on like that,
just told them to hush right now,
they did.”

The text of her chapel tours
intoned and incanted more like a re
than any docent’s guide book;
always invited guests to look at
Recumbent Lee’s left hand whict
her pronunciation, was “vehy
quisite.” On the anniversary of Ger
Lee’s death each year, following
memorial service in the chapel,
prayerful tone was decidely more
giac, and touched very near to the
fully sublime. |

One cannot help reflecting y
incredulity that so many Washing
and Lee students failed to make
effort to know or appreciate Virgi
of her stripe. Mrs. Pearse was a vital
palpable link to some of the most de
mining episodes of Washington
Lee’s history, and the manner of her
was resonant with associations far m
relevant to the essential nature of
two men for whom the Universit
named than those of the many self-
scious, self-appointed, or self-promé
arbiters and explicators of the “
Experience.”

Frederick Madison Smith
Marietta, Ga.

Truth, Honor, and Leybur

I am at the age that I read the
Memoriam section of the A/umni M

zine before scouting out the exploits of
living classmates or the achievements of
the current (and so vibrantly youthful)
student body. As always I am struck by
the events that surrounded the lives of
the men who attended W&L in the
1920s, “30s, and ’40s. Whatever their
careers, In Memoriam notes their mili-
tary service during World War II, usually
listed matter-of-factly in a paragraph
about their lives. A pattern emerges,
over time, that many graduates of that
era served in war and continued as civic
and church leaders in the years that fol-
lowed. As a veteran of the Vietnam War,
I don’t envy or see glory in anyone’s
battlefield experience, but I do long for
the certainty these men appear to share
with their contemporaries about faith in
the nation and themselves.

It was also wonderful to see the trib-
utes to Dr. Leyburn (Summer 1994).
After two years away from the campus, I
returned in the summer of 1964 as a
junior with no clear idea of what courses
to take. Walking with my new spouse
along the campus, we found Dr. Ley-
burn tending roses in the garden at the
back of his house. He spent more than
an hour listening and then suggesting
that I ask Dr. Jenks to be my advisor in
the study of history. Dr. Leyburn sug-
gested that I get my nose out of the col-
lege catalogue and the various course
requirements and become educated by
taking classes from the best professors.

Dr. Leyburn had an abiding belief in
the abilities of his students. He saw and
encouraged in me the quality of scholar-
ship, something I did not easily see in
myself. Accepting his challenge, I wrote
a paper comparing the similarities in
Pattern and theme, chapter by chapter,
of Homer’s Odyssey and Joyce’s Ulysses.
The result was a handshake, a smile,
and an unqualified A. It was his pleasure
at my accomplishment that both sur-
prised and satisfied me.

I have changed much—and lost
much—since those days in 1960s Lex-
ington. But the inspiration and the wis-
dom and the deepest values of truth and
honor will remain with me always.

Bruce W. Rider ’66
Grapevine, Texas

A Few Good Men

I certainly enjoyed William Cocke’s
article, “Civil Warriors” (Summer 1994),
highlighting alumni such as Bill Brock
53 and Bob Goodlatte ’*77L who have
brought honor to the political system. By
personal experience, I got to know the
good character of Billy Webster ’79
when his business conducted a voter
registration effort several years ago. An
error was made on a form and to imple-
ment a legal correction he put aside par-
tisanship and contacted me to file the
proceedings. Renowned Democrat that
he is, he employed our county’s only
Republican-oriented law firm.

In this day of dirty tricks and
“gotcha” journalism, it is refreshing to
know that civility can succeed and that
indeed there are good people desiring to
serve the public.

Joe Wilson ’69
West Columbia, S.C.

Wilson ts a South Carolina state senator.

Definition, Please

After reading “Cy of Relief” (Fall
1994) with great interest and emotion, I
consulted Wedster’s about the meaning of
disorder (as in, “Cy ‘Twombly, modern
art’s ‘Granddaddy of Disorder,’ redis-
covers the quiet of Lexington”). The
gentleman defines it as: 1. lack of order;
2. breach of the peace or public order; 3.
an abnormal physical or mental condi-
tion: AILMENT.

May I ask: What is your definition?

Philipp R. Amlinger
Fairfield, Va.

‘The Alumni Magazine of Washington
and Lee welcomes /etters. Address corre-
spondence to: University Editor, Washington
and Lee, Publications Office, Lexington, VA
24450. Letters may also be faxed to (703)
463-8024. All letters should include the
author’s name, address, and daytime phone
number. Letters selected for publication may
be edited for length, content, and style.

HL

VOLUME 69, NUMBER 4
WINTER 1995

Brian D. Shaw, Executive Editor

Dick Anderson, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

W. Patrick Hinely ‘73, Photographer
Evan Atkins, Contributing Editor
William Cocke ‘82, Contributing Editor
Brian Logue, Sports Editor

Chris Main ‘94, Class Notes Editor
Mary Woodson, Associate Designer
Karlic & Linthicum, Design

COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY BOARD

John Cleghorn °84

David M. Clinger °55
William H. Fishback Jr. ’56
Farris P. Hotchkiss ’58
Thomas V. Litzenburg ’57
David Lotts ’74

Andrew H. McCutcheon °48
Robert Mottley 64
Elizabeth Obenshain
Howard Packett ’58

Frank A. Parsons ’54

Sarah K. Wiant ’78L
Robert Wittpenn ’82

Published quarterly by Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington
and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA
24450. Third-class postage paid at
Lynchburg, VA 24502. Signed articles
reflect the views of their authors and not
necessarily those of the editorial board or
the University.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
DIRECTORY

Switchboard (703) 463-8400
Publications Office (703) 463-8956
Alumni Office (703) 463-8464
Development Office (703) 463-8410
News Office (703) 463-8460

Sports Info. Office (703) 463-8676
W&L Sports Hotline (703) 463-8998

The Colonnade

 

Mock Convention ‘96: One More Year
Fundraising Underway as Committee Eyes April Kickof¢

Forget the New Hampshire primary. Ignore the Iowa caucuses. The true indicator
of the presidential nomination process is officially underway. ‘This month marks
beginning of the fundraising drive for Washington and Lee’s 1996 Mock
Convention—and as the first Republican convention in 16 years, the ’96 gala holds a

special excitement for the predominang.

 

 

Eyes on the prize: From left, Mock Conven-
tion committee members Bob Ross, Courtney
Tucker, and David Stewart, all members of
the Class of ’96, gather their plans for next

year’s Republican gala.

 

ly Republican student body and leader.
ship team alike. “Students will be tryly
into it and want that person to win,” gaye
political chairman Bob Ross °96, whg
hopes the excitement will spread to
alumni in the support of contributions, _
Though funds are allotted from cha
school’s executive committee, the overs
whelming majority of the funding fm
Mock Convention is generated through |
fundraising, according to treasurer
Ronnie Brown ’96. He plans to soli
alumni chapters for donations early on,
with a major donor push during Home.
coming and Parents’ Weekends thi:
year. Other support targets current
seniors and their parents, as wella
Lexington residents and businesses. _
The two-day, $250,000 political pare
is the biggest quadrennial event on thi
Washington and Lee campus. In ade
tion to the expense of the event itsel

   
   
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
  
  

 

ai £

costs include research from states an
any area with voting rights as well as speakers’ fees. (Think Mario Cuomo car
cheap? Think again.) When general chairman David Stewart ’96, personnel chai
Courtney Tucker ’96, and Ross were chosen last January, along with Brown and sec
retary Thomas Becker ’96, the group combed through old files and minutes to form
late their basic duties and then went from there, making changes as they went alor
One new addition is an advisory board, which includes National Review editor Willié
F. Buckley Jr.; Stephen Danzansky ’61, former deputy assistant to President B
Representative Bob Goodlatte ’77L; Dallas attorney and former trustee Riché
Haynes °58; former secretary of commerce Robert Mosbacher °47, ’49L; pollster ¥
Lance Tarrance Jr. 63; and U.S. Senator John Warner °49. “We felt that would be
good way to network with alums and get other people involved,” says Ross. With @
addition of Roger Mudd ’50 and Charles McDowell °48 as media consultants, Ro
hopes the insight and contacts of all the advisors will benefit the Convention.
An ongoing source of income has been the Sumners Foundation in ‘Texas, whic
set up a trust fund for Mock Convention, and the committee draws the interest on @
fund’s capital every four years. “It is enabling us to have better research and bett
correspondence with different speakers,” Brown notes, “and basically making Moe
Convention a whole lot bigger ordeal than it would have been without it.” |
The first phase of actual research begins this spring, with the appointment of st@
chairmen and their committees contacting alumni and Republican Party figures
their respective states. Other work to be done includes lining up speakers for botht
spring kickoff, to be held April 28, and next year’s convention itself. Ross hopes
land an announced or potential presidential candidate for the April kickoff—altho
it’s too soon to tell at this writing.—By Lakeisha Townes °95

Cameras in the Classroom

All was normal as assistant professor
Steve Desjardins lectured to his Chem-
istry 100 class Dec. 7—unless you count
the ABC News
camera rolling.
A video crew
spent the day on
campus follow-
ing sophomore
Jennifer Horne
on her schedule,
as the W&L stu-
dent was inter-
viewed for a
special report on
gender issues.
97 The one-hour

program is slated
to be broadcast on ABC Feb. 1.

Horne, who is both a National Merit
Scholar and a W&L honor scholar from
Manasquan, N.J., was the only college
student interviewed for a segment that
will deal with gender bias on standard-
ized tests. She came to the attention of a
producer after an interview in her home-
town paper last year quoted Horne as
saying she did not think the tests were
gender-biased.

Horne was interviewed at length
about her views on gender issues, partic-
ularly as a student, in the classroom, and
especially in a college that only began
accepting women a decade ago. Should
make for interesting viewing.

 

 

Jennifer Horne

Calyx Needs Money

The Calyx is in serious financial trou-
ble. Washington and Lee’s yearbook
since 1897 ran a $12,000 deficit last year,
“and we don’t have the resources to
launch an alumni patron campaign,”
explains business manager Darcey
Livingston ’97,

Alumni interested in being patrons
May send donations in any amount to
The Calyx, Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, University Center, Lexington, VA
24450. A limited number of Calyxes
from years past are still available for $15
Cach by writing the same address.
Telephone inquiries may be made to
Livingston at (703) 462-4046.

Special Collections
Seeks Leyburn Letters

During his 25 years at W&L, James
Graham Leyburn developed a legendary
following as one of the great classroom
teachers in W&L history, a legacy that
was commemorated last May with the
dedication of the James Graham Ley-
burn Library.

The Special Collections section of
the Leyburn Library has a collection of

 

Leyburn’s papers and is interested in
collecting any and all of Leyburn’s cor-
respondence. “He was a faithful and
prolific correspondent,” notes Special
Collections librarian Vaughan Stanley,
“and corresponded with many W&L
graduates over the years.”

Any alumnus interested in donating
such correspondence to the Leyburn
collection is encouraged to contact
Stanley at (703) 463-8649, by mail, or by
E-mail at stanley. v@wlu.edu.

Midnight Madness
Hits the W&L Bookshelf

W&L senior Andrew Schneider has
prematurely gray hair and a very high
metabolism. “I love to eat,” says the tall,
slim 24-year-old. “Since my parents
were divorced, my mother taught us to
cook,” says the oldest of three siblings,
all of whom are now in college. “She
made us liberated men.”

One of Andrew’s earliest liberating
experiences was doing the family gro-
cery shopping, and soon his mother,
Carol, found the Schneider cupboard
full of things with names like Délices au
Chocolat (more expensive and better-
tasting than Toll House morsels) and
other imported oddball confections from
France, Switzerland, and other foreign
venues. Out of these high grocery bills
came a high concept for a cookbook,
however, and the result is Midnight
Snacks: The Cookbook That Glows in the
Dark ($15), written by Carol and Andrew
and published to (dare we say) glowing
notices by Clarkson Potter this fall.

Although Andrew and his family hail
from Scarsdale, N.Y., the Scarsdale Diet
this ain’t. Recipes range from comfort
foods that will make you want to crawl
back into bed to wake-up foods that will
keep you up cramming for that last
exam. Most require no more than six
ingredients, use no more than two cook-
ing utensils, and take 15 minutes or less
to prepare. Andrew’s mother, associate
publisher and executive publicity direc-
tor for Random House, did most of the
testing, while the recipes came from
many kitchens. Poet Maya Angelou, a
longtime friend of Carol’s, shared a tip
for using the cooking juices of a roasted
chicken, while Andrew’s friend and
W&L comrade, Shelly Brien ’94, offered
her spicy mushroom quesadillas recipe.

Carol Schneider had published a
cookbook calendar and was working on
her first cookbook, Fresh, when Andrew
hatched “a cool idea”: a cookbook that
glows in the dark. The idea simmered
for a few years until mother and son,
through an agent, pitched the concept to
potential publishers. The first printing
of 11,000 copies was quickly followed by
3,000 more.

 

 

 

|

Rte eee ie
‘ AUT

 

You might even say he glows: Midnight Snacks co-author Andrew Schneider °95 at a WEL

tasting and book signing in December. Andrew's favorite: his own imported oddball confectiom

All of which made it a very busy fall
for Andrew. In between exams, he
turned up on a telephone interview on
CNN’s midnight newscast Dec. 9, a seg-
ment that included video footage from a
tasting party and book signing days
before in the W&L Bookstore. Then, on
Dec. 19, Andrew and his mother made
French toast and popcorn oddities for
Katie Couric on the “Today” show
(with dear old Katie getting a plug in for
dear old W&L, the a/ma mater of her
husband, Jay Monahan ’*77).

A history major, Andrew plans to pur-
sue a career in communications or poli-
tics after finishing school this June. He’s

been anything but confined to t&
kitchen, serving as Hillel president, ¢
president of the campus ACLU chapté
and chairman of Contact, the studef
run and -financed lecture series white
brings noted speakers to W&L, such
Midnight in the Garden of Good and Et
author John Berendt back in Novembe
What’s next? Already there’s talk 0
sequel—Low-fat Midnight Snacks
although Andrew admits the idea is
“bit of an oxymoron.” Of course, we'\
got an idea of our own: Midnight Sna@
in the Garden of Good and Evi.
It'll keep ’em up nights in Savanna
—By Evan Athih

Nn uenel 4|

Evan Kemp Steps Closer
To Equal Footing for All

Evan J. Kemp Jr. ’59 has made it his
business to eliminate the liabilities of
disabilities. One of more than 43 million
disabled Americans, Kemp is a leading
advocate for the
civil rights of the
physically and

 

mentally dis-
abled as well as a
founding partner
in Invacare, the
world’s largest
maker of home
health-care
products. A 1994
Distinguished Alumnus at W&L, Kemp
recently announced the acquisition of
Division Medical and ‘Transportation, a
Maryland-based company that special-

 

izes in converting vans and cars to make
them accessible for drivers and passen-
gers with physical disabilities. It’s
another step forward for the former
chairman of the U.S. Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission and one
of the fathers of the Americans with
Disabilities Act. Says Kemp: “We have
begun the final phase of integrating dis-
abled people into society.”

Oh, What Might Have Been

W&L factoid: In a recent interview
published in the Kansas City Star, Rush
Limbaugh Sr., the 103-year-old father of
the outspoken radio and TV commenta-
tor, revealed that he had been accepted
to law school at Washington and Lee—
but that a case of malaria sent him pack-
ing for Missouri. By the time he recov-
cred, the offer was gone, and he went on
CO graduate from the University of
Missouri in 1916. “Politics hasn’t seen
anybody like Teddy since then,” said
the senior Limbaugh, who campaigned
for the Bullmoose candidate in 1912.

 

 

 

Second Helpings

1965 grad Andrew Kilpatrick’s
second book on Warren Buffett, like
its predecessor, was written without
its subject’s cooperation. Still, Of
Permanent Value, in bookstores now,
doesn’t dish any dirt on the Omaha
investor, says Kilpatrick, a reporter
turned stockbroker in Birmingham.
Well, not much, anyway: “People
said he can’t run a fax machine.”

 

 

 

Labro Grows Up

Even as the less-than-faithful
film version of The Foreign Student
disappeared in and out of theaters,
Philippe Labro °58 has published
another autobiographical novel to
rave reviews and French bestseller-
dom. Un Début a Paris tells the story
of a young newspaperman not
unlike Labro was 35 years ago, in
the employ of a “little man” not
unlike Pierre Lazareff, chief of a
popular evening paper in France.
Next up for Labro: film adaptations
of Quinze Ans and Le Petit Garcon.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Robert E. Lee,
Tabloid Darling

“Wacky hubby is Civil War buff
who loves to play bugle in his
undies!” screamed a portion of a
headline in the Nov. 8 issue of the
Globe tabloid. Not that we would
stoop to reading these things, mind
you, but the story inside offered a
former nanny’s testimony about a
certain alumnus and his collection of
Civil War bugles, and even included
a photo of General Lee himself.
Must have been a slow O.J. week.

 

 

 

 

os: Eve Morra

;

Pho

 

10

 

 

 

 

era ay
Vision

 

‘The chairman of the Campaign for Washington and Lee is
also one of the shrewdest dealers in the cable IV business
and a major player in the Australian information outback.

_

How did H.F. “Gerry” Lenfest 53 get where he is today?

BY DICK ANDERSON

 

t was 1948. The place was

Mahanoy City, Pa. (although

some folks in Oregon may tell you

otherwise—it’s one of those dis-

putes that will never be resolved),

and a man named John Watson
opened a store where he sold television
sets. Only problem was, Mahanoy City
was at the bottom of a deep valley
where there was no TV reception. So
Watson, who moonlighted for the power
company, erected a tower and antenna
on top of the ridge and ran a cable down
to his store. People saw the reception,
bought the ‘T’V sets, took them home—
no reception. No problem, Watson
replied: Buy a TV set from me, I'll run a
cable to your house. He sold 3,000 sets
that way.

Not long after that, hundreds of miles
away in Mercersburg, Pa., Washington
and Lee dean of students Frank J.
Gilliam paid a visit to Mercersburg
Academy, and an 18-year-old senior
named Harold FitzGerald Lenfest took
an interest in coming to W&L. “He was
a great man and a great recruiter,”
recalls Lenfest, who enrolled in the
University in the fall of 1949.

It would be another quarter-century
before Lenfest’s and cable’s future
would be inexorably linked, with the
$2.3 million purchase of Triangle
Communications’ cable TV interests in
1974. Since then, the Lenfest Group has
grown from 7,600 subscribers to 720,000
subscribers and other communications
interests. “If I have a strength, it’s learn-
ing how to achieve through others and
having faith in people and allowing
them to rise to their top level of
achievement,” says Lenfest, whose
1,000 employees call him “Gerry.”

Lenfest has shown similar strength as
chairman of the Campaign for Washing-
ton and Lee, donating some $7.5 million
of his own money while shepherding an
effort that hopes to reach its $127 mil-
lion goal this spring. Gerry and his wife,
Marguerite, have aided Washington and
Lee at critical junctures in the cam-
paign, first by ponying up $5 million
toward the construction and endowment
of a performing arts center in 1988, and
more recently, by joining forces with
Harte-Hanks Communications chairman

12

Houston Harte ’50 to create a challenge
that will match, dollar for dollar, up to
$5 million in contributions from alumni
and friends toward completing the cam-
paign by the end of June.

Gerry Lenfest has come a long way in
the days since cable’s modern infancy.
In those formative years, before CNN
and ESPN and HBO and MT'V became
a part of the video lexicon, few people,
Lenfest included, could anticipate the
explosive growth of cable. “But it pro-
vided me with the opportunity of doing
my own thing instead of doing it for
somebody else,” he says at his office in
Pottstown, Pa. “For me it, was impor-
tant at that time.” He tells a story of
meeting a woman, some years back, who
asked him about his background. “I told
her I started out as a lawyer in New
York, and then I took a job in Philadel-
phia, and now I owned a cable system in
Lebanon, Pa. She looked at me and
said, ‘You’re moving backwards,’ ” he
recalls, laughing.

Gerry Lenfest can afford to laugh.

erry Lenfest was born in
Jacksonville, Fla., and
grew up in Scarsdale,
N.Y., and Hunterdon
County, N.J. “My father,
by education, was a naval
architect and a marine engineer. I grew
up around ship lore and I went to sea a
couple of summers—the one before
W&L and the one before that.” Lenfest
worked in deck maintenance on a
tanker that sailed out of Philadelphia.
“We would pack up crude oil in
Venezuela and take it to a refinery in
Aruba, and then we’d pick up refined
crude oil and take it to Europe,” he
recalls. “It was a good experience.”

By the time the tanker docked in
Philadelphia, Lenfest had missed sum-
mer camp for W&L freshmen at Natural
Bridge. But he quickly immersed him-
self into the W&L scene, playing four
years of soccer and joining the Sigma
Nu fraternity. He went to midshipman’s
school while at W&L, served two years
in the Navy aboard destroyers, and
retired with the rank of captain.

When he married his college sweet-
heart, the former Marguerite Brooks, in

 

 
  
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
   
 
    

July of 1955, he was in between
Navy and law school at Colump
University. “We met through a frie,
my best friend, actually, in Ocean Q;
N.J., in 1951,” he says. “Margue .
went to Wilson College in Cham}
burg, Pa., and I dated her when J wag
student. She would come to Lexingto
and on occasion I would hitchhike
Route 11 to see her because I did;
have a car.” Wilson had a dean of gp
dents—“a very formidable woman,” ,
Lenfest recalls—“and when I wo
leave Chambersburg, she always ga’
me a ride out of town.”

In 1958, Lenfest joined Davis Polk
Wardell (the New York law firm foun
ed by Lawyer’s Lawyer John W. Da
1892, 1895), working in trusts a
estates. Senior partner Walter Fletct
had a very close relationship with co
munications giant Walter Annenbe
and in 1965, when Annenberg ask
Fletcher to select one of the firn
younger attorneys to go to Philadelp!
as an associate counsel of his compar
‘Triangle Publications, “Fletcher sele
ed me, saying it was an opportunity t
I should not overlook,” Lenfest says, *
it turned out to be.”

Lenfest reported to Joe First,
angle’s general counsel and second-
command to Annenberg. All of the d
sions—which at the time included r
and ‘T'V stations, the Philadelphia Ing
and Daily News, TV Guide, Seventeen m
azine, the Daily Racing Form, and ¢
TV systems—reported directly to Fi
“This was a rare opportunity for
because I became more and m
involved in business relationships
Triangle,” Lenfest says. After five
as general counsel, Lenfest was nan
managing director of a new division ¢
sisting of Triangle’s cable interest
two operating systems in Binghamt
N.Y., and Lebanon, Pa.—and S&
“1 didn’t know anything about a teer
girls magazine,” he says, “but I lez
quickly.”

Reinventing Seventeen became
fest’s number-one priority. “Whe!
took over in July 1970, we were com
out of the ’60s with an anti-fashion Mm
tality,” he recalls. Seventeen had Dé
primarily a fashion magazine, and W!

the anti-fashion attitude prevailed
among young people, its circulation
slipped below its rate base guaranteed
ro advertisers. “We had the challenge of

remaking the editorial format of the

magazine,
changes in the editorial personnel,
which we did.” In time, the changes
worked, and Seventeen’s circulation even

which required extensive

yse above its previous zenith.

When Annenberg decided to sell
Triangle’s cable operations in 1973,
Lenfest was given the opportunity to
purchase all or part of them, including
franchises in the Philadelphia suburbs
that had not been built because of a

r¢

Federal Communications System freeze
on the development of cable. “It was
sort of a race against time because if
anyone else had come in with an accept-
able offer, Triangle would have accept-
ed it,” Lenfest recalls.

There was only one problem, he says:
“I didn’t have any money.”

ff Wie

,

eo a A
Lig

i

if ,

J

 

‘Gy
Ui &
i /
Vf

; / 7
A ; , *|
f ie |)
ry SES
Wi
7 a .
. ta /

He lined up $1.8 million in financing
through a Philadelphia bank and con-
vinced two men who owned the radio
station in Lebanon, Pa., to finance the
remaining $500,000 with the under-
standing he would buy them out in five
years for double their investment. “The
night before the closing with Triangle,
one of these gentlemen called me and
asked me to come to Lebanon to talk to
him and his partner,” Lenfest recalls.
There, at the home of a man named Les
Etter, Etter and his partner called the
deal off with Lenfest—too risky, they
told him. “All of my aspirations were
shattered at that moment,” he says.

Just when all seemed lost, his erst-
while partners’ wives entered the room,
led their husbands into the kitchen, and
Lenfest overheard the conversation that
followed. You can’t do this to Gerry at the
last minute, the women told their spouses
—a promise is a promise. When the men
returned, the deal was on again.

:

i

 

 

“And that was the beginning of our
company,” says Lenfest, who ran the
Lenfest Group out of his basement until
1982 (Marguerite, who works at the
Suburban Cable office in Sellersville,
Pa., is company treasurer as well).

enfest eventually bought out
his partners, and by 1981, the
wholly owned Lenfest Group
had a total of four cable sys-
tems with more than 40,000
customers. That same year,
Lenfest invited John Malone—presi-
dent of ‘T'ele-Communications Inc., the
nation’s largest cable operator—to come
and address the Philadelphia Cable
Club, of which Lenfest was president.
“On the way to the airport, he had asked
what aspirations I had for future growth
of the company, and I said I wanted to
acquire three cable systems in the
Philadelphia area but didn’t have the
financing to do so,” he recalls. “TCI

Gerry Lenfest ran his fledgling business out of his basement in the early years, but one thing hasn't changed—his wife, Marguerite, is still company
lreasurer. “It was an opportunity in which to get involved,” she says of their venture into cable, “and it just took off from there.”

13

 

 

 

+

o) fear pele Sees
eee theres he 2

 

ane fe A

The dedication of the Lenfest Center in 1991 “gave Marguerite and me great personal satts-

faction,” says Gerry, “but the highlight of the campaign will be when we hit $127 million.”

bought 20 percent of the company, and
with these funds we were able to
acquire the three cable systems.”

The next major step was the acquisi-
tion of the Oakland (Calif.) cable system
in 1984, which had 19,000 customers at
the time. In December, Lenfest attend-
ed a party celebrating the system’s
75,000th customer. Soon the Lenfest
Group will trade its California opera-
tions for cable systems in New Castle
County and Wilmington, Del., creating
the second-largest cable area under one
company in the United States, including
the Delaware systems, suburban Phila-
delphia, and adjoining counties in
southern New Jersey.

As Lenfest sees it, the company’s
future growth will come from growing
the existing systems, which presently
reach more than 70 percent of their
potential customer base, and through

14

acquisitions. Like many other U.S. oper-
ators fed up with heavy government reg-
ulation of the industry, Lenfest is look-
ing to invest his money abroad. The
company has two international invest-
ments. In a partnership in France with
the national power company, Electricité
de France, and the country’s largest
bank, Credit Agricole, Lenfest is wiring
cable systems in some of the country’s
smaller towns along EDF’s power lines.

That’s the easy one. “The one in
Australia,” Lenfest says, “is like a Wild
West show.” In one of the few populous
nations where there’s no pay TV,
Lenfest has entered into a partnership
with Australis Media, an Australian-
owned company, to provide satellite-
delivered service down under—first-run
movies, classic movies, sports, news,
music, general entertainment—to cable-
starved Aussies. Lenfest says. “Australia

 

'

is approximately the size of the Uniteg
States with only 18 million homes.” To
get the system up and running, the Part.
nership will distribute pay TV through
satellite dishes and less expensive ter.
restrial receivers. The service wil] Com.
mence early this year.

erry Lenfest has another
job to finish by the middle
of this year. “There’s stil] g
select group of potentia}
givers that have not com-
mitted to the campaign,”
he says. “When they are fully apprised
of the needs of Washington and Lee and
the benefits that will come from their
giving, | am confident they will join jp
the campaign and put us over the top.”

‘The Lenfests’ continuing support of
W&L is not the only measure of their
generosity. In addition to the gift thar
completed the Lenfest Center for the
Performing Arts, another $3 million gift
built the Lenfest Library at Mercers-
burg Academy as part of that school’s
$27 million campaign. “I feel particular
ly fortunate that we are financially able
to do this in our lifetime,” Lenfest says.
“It’s an opportunity that has brought us
a lot of personal satisfaction.”

Lenfest tends to make the most out
of life’s opportunities. At age 52, he and
Marguerite bought their first sailboat, a
38-foot Bristol—this despite the fact
that he had never sailed a boat before.
But then the Lenfests took a weekend
course in sailing offered by the Anna-
polis Sailing School, and soon they were
sailing the Bristol in the Chesapeake
Bay out of Oxford, Md. When people
asked Lenfest why he didn’t start small
er, “I told them it was because I didnt
have time,” he recalls, laughing.

These days, he and Marguerite own#
60-foot, ocean-going, Little Harbor sail-
boat, the Beau Geste, sailing her down ®
Antigua from Newport, R.L., each
November, and coming back up @
Newport the following May. Lenfest
finds the water “very therapeutic” —away
from land, away from his business, #4
yes, away from television. “I probably
shouldn’t admit this,” he says sheepishly:
“but I don’t watch much television.”

When would he find the time? #

_

 

 

 

 

Drrve-By Shootings

With his field camera in tow and the Shenandoah Valley as his canvas,

Peter Cronin ’84 captures “Trees and Other Storytellers’ on and off the road

 

15

 

 

 

ALONG HOGCAMP BRANCH, SHENANDOAH NATIONAL PARK, AUGUST 1994

“Shenandoah National Park ts a tremendous resource for this part of the country.

| am always amazed when I remember that vast portions of the park were heavily
timbered and that most of the park consists of new growth forest.”

PREVIOUS PAGE: ROUTE 631, ROCKBRIDGE COUNTY, AUGUST 1994
“There is something magical about a lone tree, or in this case, a pair.

It’s fascinating to wonder why the tree was spared. What made it more
valuable to keep than to fell for firewood or to use in a dwelling?”

When Peter Cronin ’84 was growing up, he traveled
quite extensively, crossing the country twice with his
mother and grandmother and visiting many of the
nation’s parks along the way. Besides developing an
appreciation for his natural surroundings, these trips
sparked an interest in photography, and a world of sub-
jects awaited him.

Cronin has been photographing Lexington and its
surrounding communities since his student days at
W&L. But for his recent Lewis Hall exhibit, titled
“Trees and Other Storytellers,” he chose a selection of
16

photos he has mostly taken since returning to the
University as director of the Annual Fund in 199
“It’s an evolving work,” Cronin says in his typically
modest fashion. “It’s a small number of prints and it’s
certainly not meant in any way to be complete.” ;

Cronin graduated from W&L with a double degree
in geology and art and then attended graduate school

 
  
 
 
 
 

at Ohio University in the MFA program in photo
phy. “One of the things I’ve wrestled with for a le
time is the tendency to dismiss work like this as bam
mundane, or any number of adjectives you could thi

 

 

 

 

EARLY MORNING, ROCKBRIDGE COUNTY, OCTOBER 1993

“Autumn in Rockbridge County provides for many remarkable

opportunities to make photographs of the valley. I’m especially
fond of the fog you often find in the early morning.”

 

 

 

 

SUMMER, ROCKBRIDGE COUNTY, AUGUST 1993
“When I think of August in Virginia, I think of the leaden
quality the heat brings to the air. This day was no exception,
and I tried to capture the essence of a country day.”

of,” he says of environmental photography. “It’s not
overtly politically motivated; it’s not sexually charged;
and certainly when I was in the MFA program at O.U.,
it’s not what they were interested in seeing you do.”
But what do they know about the Shenandoah Valley?

Cronin captures his environment using a 4-by-5
field camera made of wood, a contemporary piece of
€quipment not all that different from what photogra-
Phers used 100 years ago. “It’s a box with a set of bel-
lows and lens that takes a 4-by-5 inch piece of film,”
he says. “The bigger the piece of film, the better.”

i

Some of Cronin’s subjects gestate in the mind’s eye
for weeks, even months, before he exposes a single
frame. “The photograph starts to evolve in your head
before you take the camera, and the tripod, and the
filmholders to make the image.” The process for him,
Cronin says, is as much “selecting what you want to
exclude for an image rather than what to include.”

According to University photographer W. Patrick
Hinely *73, who took on Cronin as an assistant during
his student days, “the one word I would use to
describe Peter’s work is contemplative.”

17

 

NICHOLSON HOLLOW, SHENANDOAH NATIONAL PARK, AUGUST 1994
“Most tourists never see anything more of Shenandoah than the view
from Skyline Drive out their car window. They’re missing the true magic
of Shenandoah, which is found far from the drive along the trails that
crisscross the park. For me, many of these areas seem almost primeval.”

Sometimes it’s just Cronin and his camera, and a
subject may be as close as the roadside. Other explo-
rations, such as recent excursions into Shenandoah
National Park, turn into family outings including
Peter; his wife, Amy; and their dogs, Cyrus and Baxter.
The Cronins may hike about a mile and a half down
the hollow, dropping 800 or 900 feet in elevation. “It
often seems like the most interesting parts of Shenan-
doah are the most difficult to get to,” he says. “But it’s
a wonderful place with great light. Every time we go, I
see something new.

18

“er

here are a lot of people working in photography
of the landscape going along doing their thing,” says
Cronin. “They are not the people you hear a lot abou&
and regrettably a lot of very good work goes unseen. »

Whether it’s the Maury River, Nicholson Hollow, 0f
just a bunch of hay bales near Fancy Hill, going out
and throwing the camera on his back is a great release
for Cronin, “and I get so I miss it,” he says. “I think
it’s important there be more to your creative life than
what your job is.”

Even when you work at Washington and Lee.

ae

 

ep?
,o¢
i

The science bi

 

 

You’ve signed the waiver. Now it’s
time to take a seat in the vinyl-covered
La-Z-Boy while they smear goo on the
electrodes studded inside the cloth cap
and affix it to your head. Wires sprout
from the electric beanie leading into the
next room. You insert the plastic tube
into your right nostril. They give you a
Game Boy to relax.

You give the OK, and suddenly a

‘
5 Ran
a f
ny 77
JTL
7 oo
« : 2 be

a pee)
~* Sy SRS OP oe Me
Sotas
~

agrees a

 

 

smell blooms inside your head. The first
one is reminiscent of one of those per-
fume ads you tear out of magazines.
The next is vaguely citrusy. For the
next hour or so, they alternate scents as
you punch in your reactions on the key-
board in front of you, while a computer
in the next room records your brain
activity. When it’s all over, you head
home with nothing worse than an itchy

nose and messy hair. Congratulations:
You’ve just donated a map of your lim-
bic system to science.

At Washington and Lee, associate
professor of psychology ‘Tyler Lorig and
a group of students are conducting
research into the serra incognita of the
human limbic system—that part of the
brain which mediates olfaction, memo-
ry, emotion, and some hormonal and

19

You are ahout to smell many
fter each odor,

Odors,

Thre

Will he asked about how it
smelled. Please tupe in your

answer and press enter.

20

 

regulatory functions. In other words, the
part that tells us what we smell, why,
and what to do about it. According to
Lorig, it’s a map that needs quite a bit
of detail work. “The human olfactory
system is viewed by science as being in
a state of decline,” he says. “It has not
been studied in-depth—it’s the neglect-
ed sense.”

Most laymen would agree. Compared
to the other senses, smell is distressingly

 

inaccurate, and the common assumption
is that man has lost this sense somehow
through the evolutionary process. This
is not quite the case, says Lorig—anq
he’s assembling the data to prove ir.
“Smell is far more important than we
believe it to be,” he maintains. “Ap
enormous part of our brain consists of
the limbic system. At the level of the
sensory receptor,” he adds, “humans are
equally as sensitive as a dog when it

Pi E:
ee

 

 

Where man’s nose has gone before: Lorig squirts “goo” into the electrode-studded beante atop

research sulyect Zachary Lee’s head while junior psychology major Meg Randol looks on.

comes to smell.”

Anyone who has ever noticed how
much of Rover’s life is ruled by his snif-
fer has to wonder why we don’t exhibit
some of our canine friends’ more en-
dearing traits. Lorig’s hypotheses help
to explain why the fire hydrants of the
world have gone to the dogs: Much of
olfaction affects brain regions not relat-
ed to awareness and much of what odors
do never reaches our awareness at all.

 

 

Simply put, Lorig says: “Your sense of
smell has to be affecting you even
though you don’t know it.”

Lorig has been sniffing around the
evolution of the brain and its functions
since majoring in psychology at college.
“When I arrived in grad school [at the
University of Georgia] with this interest,
I was told it was very hard to study the
behavior of dead things—still an impor-
tant point,” he recalls. Lorig noticed
that people were studying functional
brain evolution by looking at language—
a real dividing line between humans and
animals. He wondered why no one was
performing olfactory research, which
posed similar questions.

It wasn’t until several years after
completing his Ph.D that Lorig teamed
up with Yale professor Gary Schwartz.
With the help of a gift from Inter-
national Flavors and Fragrances Inc., the
world’s largest supplier of fragrance
products, Lorig and Schwartz performed
an experiment to see if they could find a
link between brain activity and odor.
“We began innocently enough,” Lorig
recalled in an article for Aromachology
Review, a newsletter for the fragrance/
fashion trade. “We just
wanted to see if we could
find brain activity differ-
ences when _ people
smelled different odors.
All the senses lead to the
brain where ... process-
ing takes place in cells
which ... communicate chemically. ‘The
chemicals, like those in a battery, pro-
duce electricity which can be measured
from the scalp. This measurement of
brain activity is called the EEG [elec-
troencephalogram] ... We wanted to use
this ‘window on the mind’ to watch the
process of olfaction. We did watch in
that first experiment and found, after

 

quantitative evaluation, that we really
could see a difference in brain activity
which depended on the odor.”

More experiments followed their ini-
tial success. Lorig and Schwartz discov-
ered that people who were given similar
odors were often unable to differentiate
between them, yet their drain activity
showed reliable differences.

Since Lorig came to Washington and
Lee in 1988, he and his students have
been conducting increasingly sophisti-
cated experiments into brain activity
and smell. W&L is, in fact, one of only
three to four labs in the country doing
this type of research, with the help of a
five-year, $63,000 grant from IFF to test
his hypothesis of odor perception.

The laboratory is an essential part of
Lorig’s curriculum, and he and his stu-
dents spend a great deal of time in the
basement of Tucker Hall, nerve center
of the psychology department’s research
facilities. (The new science center,
when completed in 1997, will provide
Lorig with a new and larger lab, includ-
ing his own ventilation system in “a
nice, quiet corner of the building,” he
says wistfully.)

How strong was the smell?
tore

Strong
1B

“We try to give our students ways of
learning new things. They will write up
their experiments as if they were going
to send them off for publication,” he
says of his current crop of five in
Psychology 355, Directed Research in
Human Neuropsychology, a hands-on
follow-up to Psychology 255, the more
lecture-oriented half of smell at W&L.

21

ve
a, Pasant

In some cases, the research of these stu-
dents does lead to publication and Lorig
has published scientific articles with 10
different W&L students as co-authors.

The experiment described at the
beginning of this article is part of a
$24,000 study funded by the Olfactory
Research Fund, an independent non-
profit organization funded by a number
of fragrance companies, and involves
collection of data from about 20 pilot
subjects over the course of several
weeks. As junior psychology major Meg
Randol explains: “It has to do with odor
categorization. We are presenting sub-
jects with four different odors. After we
found the four odors to use—two of food
and two of perfume—we started hook-
ing subjects up to the EEG and measur-
ing their brain waves. Our hope is that
the perfume smells will elicit similar
responses as will the food smells, but
different from each category. This
would suggest that the brain categorizes
odors, even though subjects rate such
odors to be equally different.” (The
subjects, incidentally, are drawn from
W&L’s student body, some of whom
receive extra credit in their courses for
participating. )

How Pleasant was the smell?

 

Lorig gives his students a lot of
responsibility, and they are an unusually
dedicated bunch. Senior Annemarie
Paulin, who admits to “spending gross
amounts of time, sometimes eight hours
a day, in his lab,” says that by the time
she graduates, she will have had more
practical experience in a variety of fields

22

TT bale
pleasant
a”

than her undergraduate peers at other
schools. The opportunities available to
W&L psych majors—including pro-
gramming, system set-up, statistical
analysis, experimental design, and ethi-
cal considerations—are “invaluable,”
she says. “There aren’t too many under-
graduates who are trusted with a lab,
research responsibilities, subject safety,
and thousands of dollars worth of equip-
ment—or a colony of rats.”

Lorig has even had a few non-psy-
chology majors sniff out his classes.
Senior James Turner, who is pursuing a
degree in neuroscience, picked Lorig to
be his honors thesis supervisor, and they
are researching the intersection of the
physical makeup of the brain with
recent advances in computer technolo-
gy. The end result, Turner says, “will
hopefully be a computer program repli-
cating the behavior of a rat in controlled
behavioral situations.”

Students testify to Lorig’s ability to
communicate often complicated con-
cepts. “He does a good job of putting the
nervous system into layman’s terms, and
makes it fascinating at that,” Randol
says. “His Brain and Behavior class is
the reason I became a psychology major.”
Paulin adds: “Dr. Lorig
is articulate and capti-
vating in his lectures.
He introduces complex
functions and advanced
material without the
class knowing what
they’ve gotten into.”

Despite his pioneering work in the
field, Lorig still encounters the occa-
sional person who will ask sniffily: “So,
are you still studying smell?” But his
enthusiasm is all-pervasive, without a
whiff of uncertainty. “Our sense of
smell links up so many things that are
important parts of our lives. What odor

conveys is too valuable to be ignored.”

The problem with odor, he Says, is
that it is so ephemeral. At present there
are no “primary odors,” no classification
system for smell. ‘To make matters more
difficult, humans don’t have a linguistic
way to link smells together—language
and smell, it seems, are the antithesis of
one another. Lorig’s hypothesis is thar
during human evolution, our growing
linguistic ability inhibited our olfactory
abilities. Research has shown that the
sense of smell is enhanced when areas
of the brain associated with language are
lost. This removes the inhibition which
is presumed to reduce olfactory ability.

In addition, it has been shown that
high-demand cognitive tasks, such as
doing a math problem in your head, can
cause you to stop breathing, if only fora
second or two. Hypothesis: You stop
breathing to prevent odors from distract-
ing you from the task at hand. Trans-
lation: You can’t invent a microchip
while thinking about Mom’s apple pie.

Fortunately, mankind has not—yet—
evolved into Spock-like creatures of
pure intellect. Most of us 4#e the more
pleasant smells with which we are bom-
barded on a daily basis. “Smells do won-
derful things,” Lorig says. “We continu-
ally try to create a pleasing olfactory
environment for ourselves.”

This is something the fragrance
industry has known for centuries, which
is one reason groups like IFF and OFR
give researchers like Lorig money ©
conduct his experiments. “I have the
ideal relationship with these people,”
Lorig says. “It is a real model of corpo
rate support for an institution. They Pf
vide the technical support that allows
me to do truly remarkable things in the
lab.” Industry types recognize that
Lorig’s branch of work is in its Vet
early stages. Right now, he says, “they

— }

Sy UL Me oe a Mb
nose and take a break. Play

the video game if you like.

 

are looking for better ways to assess a
person’s ability to smell.”

He also recently completed a two-
year study funded by the National
Institutes of Health in which he devel-
oped techniques to be used in the clini-
cal assessment of olfactory ability. “One
of the first problems associated with
Alzheimer’s disease is olfactory loss and
a sensitive smell test may help in diag-
nosis,” he explains. “Brain-based assess-
ment of smell can be useful to the legal
profession too, since there is currently
no objective way to determine olfactory
loss in litigants.”

Lorig is all for practical applications
of his work, but he is also wary of the
quick fix or overall panaceas. “Science
won't necessarily find a ‘supersmell,’”
he cautions. “We do know that some
smells lead to relaxation,” he adds, but
the effect is subtle—not unlike that of
music or ambient lighting or room color.
So don’t look for Lorig to go out and
invent Nozak or teach any New Age
studies in aromatherapy: “It’s one thing
to claim that a smell is relaxing and
quite another to prove how and why.”

Ultimately, the scientist in Lorig
doesn’t like mysteries. “The way I see
it, my job is to learn stuff and tell other
people about it,” he says. “Two to three
years down the road, I expect to be able
to say something about how odor cate-
gorization works—how humans catego-
rize smells. We should have much better
data about the interaction between
smell and language. But things go slow-
ly. We’ve spent six years just trying to
come up with a reliable technique to
measure brain responses to odors.

“You have to start with the big ques-
tions and narrow them,” he adds. “As
you get answers to these smaller ques-
Fres/ ithary Lee of Moscow, Idaho, goes out on a limbic in the interest of olfactory tions, you learn some really useful
résta VEL. Student subjects sometimes receive extra credit for their participation. things.” ®

 

 

 

 

 

23

 

\ilustration: Bud Grace

 

‘Think it’s easy doing business in post-NAF’TA Mexico?

HONOR

One W&L alumnus lost a labor fight, his crabmeat, and

AMONG

his GMC Suburban—but he never lost his principles

CRABS

By Dare Sh W.) Ace teins ° 7:7

 

 

 

24

 

 

Whenever anyone asks me to answer
quickly what I have learned starting a
seafood business in Mexico, I answer with
one word: ¢rust. The Mexico I know has
very little trust. It is a society of survival,
where lying and misrepresentation are
assumed and honor looks hard for compan-
ionship. It is this lack of trust that I find
makes for a difficult business climate. It

took a long time for the local community 0

=

accept me, and even now it is only with
some resentment.

One of the cultural differences that I
found most difficult to deal with was the
issue of bribes. In Mexico it is simply
part of the business fabric. Officials jus-
tify the need for bribes because they are
so poorly paid, but I have steadfastly
refused to participate. When we first
opened our plant, every inspector in the
state made the rounds to check us out
and ask for a little mordida (“the bite”),
typically in the form of either cash or
crab meat. Although I couldn’t believe
how blatant it was, I refused. I realized,
however, that at some time there would
be a backlash and what I needed was a
plan. The answer was found in my
W&L experience. I bought 5,000 plastic
grain cups and had some palm trees,
crabs, and our company name printed on
them. They cost 10 cents apiece and I
give them freely to all of our guests. So
far, it seems to be working.

hree things stand out as para-
mount to my decision to start a seafood
business. As a boy growing up on the
Chesapeake Bay, I loved to crab and
fish. When I was 15, I even had my
commercial license and tried to make
crabbing my summer’s work and all I
received for my efforts was a good tan.
The thing that moved me closer to
implementing my plan was a recognition
of the high price paid in the mid-
Atlantic states for blue crabs. But what
really pushed me into action was the
total collapse of the Texas real estate
market in the 1980s.

Since graduating from Washington
and Lee in 1977, I had been a very
active real estate broker and investor in
Dallas. Through hard work and good

Freight agents would drop boxes and

kill the crabs, store them in freezers

and kill the crabs, and even leave the

crabs sitting in warehouses over the

holidays until they died.

fortune I achieved a certain degree of
the success usually reserved for later in
life. When the real estate collapse hit, it
hit me hard. Strangely however, I really
did not mind the loss of the real estate
or my own extremely large serving of
humble pie, because I truly believe that
if you built one fortune, you can build
another. As I contemplated my next
move, I knew that the direction had to
lie with something that I personally
enjoyed.

I made several trips to Belize and
Mexico in 1992, during which time I
decided to research the blue crab, its
habitat, and its availability. | knew that
crabs could be found in Texas, albeit in
diminishing supply, and I figured that a
crab didn’t know where ‘Texas stopped
and Mexico started. This led me to
drive the entire Gulf Coast of Mexico,
visiting every fish market in every town,
searching for product. Finding the pro-
duction took one year and turned out to
be the easy part. The hard part was
starting the business. With the spirit of
an optimist, I incorporated Crown Crab
Compania in Ciudad del Carmen,

Campeche, Mexico, in February 1993.

The original business plan—to buy
fresh seafood and ship it to Baltimore—
failed within months. Nothing seemed
to work. The airlines would lose the
crabs and then, when they were found
two or three days later, they’d be dead.
Since no one had ever shipped live crabs
before, Mexican customs demanded an
exorbitant amount of paperwork. The
freight agents in Houston and Baltimore
would drop boxes and kill the crabs,
store them in freezers and kill the crabs,
and even close for holidays, leaving the
crabs sitting in warehouses until they
died. Finally I had enough and I closed
our plant and returned to Texas to
rewrite my business plan. The main
focus was to develop a nonperishable
product with a stable shelf life, which
could be shipped from Mexico to the
United States without having a time gun
to my head.

I hired some of the finest seafood
experts in the United States (all of
whom are associated with Virginia
Tech), and we concluded in our new
business plan that we would make pas-

25

teurized or frozen products, all being
shelf-stable at proper temperatures for
up to two years. This new plan required
venture capital, so it wasn’t until July
1993 that I returned to Mexico, cash in
hand, and began refitting the plant
immediately to accomplish our partner-
ship’s goals, including the installation of
major equipment and the training of a
full staff. Production would begin five
months later.

December 1, 1993, was a great day
for me. One of my personal goals, be-
sides the profit motive, was the sense of
creation. In very short order, we had
trained dozens of fishermen and more
than 60 people as plant workers. Our lit-
tle company was what NAFTA was all
about—besides hopefully creating prof-
its for investors, we created skilled jobs,
opportunities, and a better life for
Mexicans as well as helping out back
home by buying U.S.-made equipment.
The whole business felt great, but this
enjoyment would be short-lived.

My first problem, which has been my
biggest ongoing problem, was labor. I
originally anticipated that one boat with
two men and 300 crab pots would catch
one kilo, or 2.2 pounds, of crab per pot
per boat per day. I confirmed this by
crabbing by myself for several days.
What I had failed to recognize was the
difference between cultures—that a
majority of these fishermen only wanted
to make a certain amount of money per
day and then quit. This meant that, on
the average, they would check fifty crab
pots to make their needed wages and
then leave the other pots unchecked. I
also failed to realize that a $15 crab pot
could also be used as a poor man’s
chicken coop, and the theft at the be-
ginning was incredible. We learned to
adapt, and today all crabbers start with
50 pots and have to prove their desire
for more. We also revised the crab pot to

26

| failed to realize that a $15 crab pot | |
could also be used as a poor man’s
chicken coop, and the theft at the

beginning was incredible.

make it too small for chickens.

Traditionally, the labor wage is very
poor in our part of Mexico. Presently the
minimum wage is approximately $4 in
U.S. currency per day, and it is my opin-
ion that this wage structure is a way to
dominate these people in a life which
doesn’t allow them too many opportuni-
ties. The big surprise, however, is the
labor law, which is very socialistic and
the only thing that the people really
have in their favor. What this results in
is labor which is very problematic. I
have found that there is a real sense of
entitlement once someone has been
hired, regardless of performance. In
short, if you need to fire anyone, you'd
better be prepared to be sued.

Our company, for instance, hired a
man to head the fishing operations at a
wage of about $30 per day—excellent
wages—with a bonus for production. He
soon began spending money unautho-
rized, hiring and firing people without
permission, and was finally suspected of
stealing part of the daily crab catch.
Knowing that change was necessary, I
offered him a job in the plant, which he
refused. He subsequently went to the
state labor office, claimed to be fired,
and sued us for $10,000 (obviously,

 

tee

ee

   
 
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
   
 
  

being American makes us a bigger tar
get). The burden of proof was on us t
prove that we did not fire him.
added risk in these cases is that if yo
lose, you owe the worker whatey.
wages to which they are entitled (ty
cally three months wages per year
their most recent salary), p/us full sala
from the dismissal date, p/us da
The final expense of labor is the
tory government taxes, which add u
more than 30 percent of base wages
a mandatory two-week Christmas bont
(We settled this case for a little m
than $1,000—this to a man who work
for us for less than one month.) ;

My labor problems literally exple
during last summer, when our plant
struck by a union. The problems be
because our summertime product
was low (winter is our high seas¢
Although we optioned to keep our e
together and pay full salaries ye
round, the women who pick the ¢
became disenchanted with the low
duction, since they work on a sa
plus-bonus wage, and the pickers ‘
on strike. While the union leader
hosting parties to drum up the 51 P
cent of employee signatures require
victory, I immediately retained couf

fired several people, and made it clear
that I would shut the plant down before
dealing with a union. I felt their
demands were outrageous and began to
yisit with all of our employees, one at a
time, to explain our position. The irony
is that most of the people who work at
our plant are intelligent, decent individ-
uals, and I view them as friends. The
problem was simply a clash of cul-
tures—old vs. new. With the help of the
governor s office, we won the labor
strike. It was one week of pure agony,
however, and once again Mexico’s labor
laws had shaken me.

Since starting production in Decem-
ber 1993, our company had quickly mas-
tered the production method of making
some of the finest pasteurized crab meat
available on the market. Our presenta-
tion was one of our biggest advantages.
We were using a clear plastic cup with a
metal flip-top lid. ‘(The consumers loved
it and it was flying off of the shelves.
But competition has its casualties, and
we sold several thousand pounds of our
product at the expense of some other
producer, who immediately stirred the
political pot. The next thing we knew
our warehouse in Baltimore was raided
by the Maryland Department of Health,
which claimed our license was invalid
and our coolers were out of temperature.
The license issue was quickly resolved,
but the temperature issue took longer.
When our test results finally came back,
Our crab meat was found to be perfect,
With virtually no identifiable bacteria.
But the damage to our small company
Was unbelievable. Good will had been
destroyed with many of our customers,
though we were confident we could
regain our momentum. To make mat-
ters worse, the state of Maryland then
Called in the Food and Drug Admin-
istration for further tests and they shut
Us down again while they ran their tests.

. —

At this point I was beginning to feel like
a man without a country. I was fighting
with the Mexicans, I was fighting with
the Americans, and nowhere did there
seem to be any spirit of cooperation.
The FDA fight took almost a month
until finally they released our crab meat
and we were back in business again.
There is no question in my mind that
these attacks had, as a catalyst, political
pressure to hurt a “foreign” producer.
After such thorough scrutiny and two
victories, we knew we must be making
some great crab meat, but the damage to
our company was incredible. We were
put out of business for most of April and
May of last year and our customer base
was severely damaged, and our cash
position was so weak that we had to
recapitalize our firm immediately. Slow-
ly but surely, new cash came in, and as
operations became normal, we prepared
for our next season. Over the last few
months we have begun processing large
amounts of fish to eliminate our depen-
dency on our one product, pasteurized
crab meat, and have also just concluded
a working agreement to process shrimp.

guess there’s really no way I could
ever have anticipated or prepared for
the things that transpired over the last
two years. The Mexican labor law itself
is something you can at least read and
understand, but the culture that perme-
ates all things is something that, at best,
you will come to understand. I am
reminded of two incidents that exempli-
fy the typical worker that I deal with
daily. One day I traveled with 25 work-
ers to a ranch we had rented on the back
of the island as a place to launch our
boats and store equipment. My mission
was to clear out the brush around an old

dock. Upon arriving, one of the senior
workers approached me and suggested
they could not work that day because it
was the Day of the Dead, and if anyone
drew blood that day he would die. The
only solution was to find other work that
did not involve the use of machetes.

Another time I traveled to a remote
village to hire women known for their
crab-picking skills. My manager and I
met one young girl who had worked for
us before, and she asked if we could
visit with her parents to see if she could
return to our plant. We went to their
home, a small one-room building made
of concrete block with a porch covered
with palm leaves in front. I sat down by
their dining table, under the palm
leaves, and as I explained the work to
her parents, their youngest daughter
approached and just stared at me. She
was approximately four years old,
dressed in ragged clothes, but with the
face of an angel. When I patted her on
the head and asked her name, you
would have thought a bomb had gone
off. Everyone stopped talking and
looked at me with disapproval. The
silence was broken when another
daughter brought a bowl of water to me
and my manager instructed me to place
the water on the child’s forehead. I did
so as if I were baptizing the child, and
once again everyone was laughing and
talking. My manager later explained to
me their belief that when I touched the
child’s head, evil spirits has passed to
the child because I was a stranger. The
placement of water on the forehead
allowed those spirits to pass back to me,
and saved the child from being deathly
ill the following day. Later that evening,
when I returned to our staff house, I
remember staring at a large map of the
Gulf of Mexico and asking myself how it
was possible that I was only two hours
yet 1,000 years from Houston.

27

| remember staring at a map of the

Gulf of Mexico and asking myself how

it was possible that | was only two

hours yet 1,000 years from Houston.

 

oO recounting of my time in
Mexico would be complete without the
story of my GMC Suburban. I took this
new vehicle to Mexico so that when my
partners visited, we would have good
transportation. It was legally registered
and I primarily used it for my personal
use. One day I became ill and asked my
manager to go to the local drugstore
downtown, and also to stop by the bank
to cash a business check. I gave him the
keys to my Suburban, unaware that it is
against the law for a Mexican to drive an
American vehicle in Mexico without the
American in the car. Some two hours
later, my manager called to inform me
that my Suburban had been confiscated
by Hacienda (the Mexican IRS). I
immediately went to their office, only to
see the local police stealing everything
out of my Suburban. I eventually got my
possessions returned and began a rather
strong conversation with the local offi-
cial. Once again, a suggestion of some
“donation” was made, and when I
refused, they suggested that I take my
case to the regional Hacienda officer in
the state capital. This proved to be a

28

wasted effort, and the fine was set at
$20,000 in U.S. currency.

At this point I declared war on this
system. How could they rationalize
stealing from people who invest in their
country and also create jobs? No one
seemed to care. I contacted the U.S.
Embassy to no effect, and communica-
tions with my senators and congressman
proved equally unproductive. Finally I
wrote a letter to the president of Mexico
and the result was that everyone dug in,
determined not to help me. The one
funny thing that happened was when
the Mexicans contacted the U.S.
Embassy to determine whether my Sub-
urban was stolen in the United States
and the Embassy accidentally checked
the wrong box—that took two months to
clear up. Finally, I requested a meeting
with the governor of the state of
Campeche, and he agreed to help me
because he recognized that I was help-
ing Mexico. He made me pledge to stop
making phone calls and writing letters,
however, because he felt that I was cre-
ating an international incident. Eleven
months later, my Suburban was re-
turned with the provision that I did not
own it, but could use it for life—a
bureaucratic solution, but it was better

 

than walking. When they again confis-
cated my Suburban two weeks later, this
time the governor instructed his staff to
find a permanent solution to this prob-
lem. The solution turned out to be,
much to their credit, to pay a nominal
fine and return my vehicle. It has been
an interesting and difficult two years,
Everyone knows that starting a new
business is difficult, but this went
beyond “normal.” Would I do it again? |
think the answer is yes, but with hind-
sight, I would take a very different -
approach. I know that we have made a
difference in the lives of many people,
and the change has been a positive one.
People are questioning their govern-
ment and sparks are flying. The hardest
part for me personally is the daily con-
frontation between my ethical standards
and the local standards. I view my stan-
dards as absolutes, and although I know
that I cannot change a country, I certain-
ly can plant some big seeds about busi-
ness ethics. I have learned one thing by
conducting myself with honor and lead-
ing by example. I have a newfound
respect for our own country, which is
without par. I also know that great and
honest government has a cost, and it Is
involvement. What a reminder Mexico
has been for me! |
The good news is that a great many
Mexicans want change and they are
stepping out and helping, which is why
we are still in business today. Every
time a crisis hit, someone in Mexico
would give their support and direct us 0
successful solutions. Being one of the
first American-owned companies in
state of Campeche makes our struggle
even more difficult. Luckily, things are
changing and when you hear stories
struggle and conflict in Mexico, it is
new way pushing aside the old. It is the
sound of friction. It is the musi¢ oe

democracy. @ }

 
 

Great Corree,
Creat People

The spirit of Washington and Lee 1s alive and well in Birmingham, Alabama

By Dea coker Arm rdé feso7n

If Washington and Lee is, as Hatton Smith ’73 suggests,
“probably as good a school in the South from which to graduate
to do business,” then Hatton’s hometown, Birmingham, Ala., is
probably as good a place as any in which to do your business.

Accountant George Jones ’72 would be among the first to
agree. “It is amazing how the alumni here acknowledge each
other and work toward developing friendships, both profes-
sionally and socially,” he says. “I’m in a continuing relation-
ship-type business—if you’ve got a business, you’re going to
talk to your accountant.” Consequently, he says, “I have a lot
of professional ties with W&L people,” and “a lot of real good
friends that I wasn’t necessarily at W&L with.”

Among Jones’ clients is Highland and Associates, one of the
largest hospital capital administrators in the country, whose
partners include third-generation Birminghamian Charlie Perry
‘73. Perry started a trust company with Rob Couch ’78, ’82L,
who came to Birmingham to practice law in 1984 and is now in
the residential mortgage business as executive vice president
of Collateral Mortgage Ltd.—a company co-founded by the
father of a W&L alumnus (Bill Ratliff ’47).

And that’s just scratching the surface. These people work
together, play together, start businesses and pray together.
Many of the city’s leading companies—from multimillion-dol-
lar family businesses to publishing giant Southern Progress—
are run by W&L alumni. Their devotion to their a/ma mater is
legion. “There’s a camaraderie here,” observes chapter presi-
dent Russ Chambliss ’74, and Perry concurs: “They are active,
energetic, successful alumni.”

The more than 300 Washington and Lee alumni that call
Birmingham home are also, quite honestly, about the most
enthusiastic group of individuals you’ll ever find in a city 550
miles south of Lexington. They care about their University,
their community, and each other.

And they all drink Royal Cup coffee—that is, if they know
What’s good for them.

If there can be such a thing as a living, breathing embodi-
ment of the Birmingham spirit, it would be Hatton Smith, the
President of Birmingham-based Royal Cup Inc. (and younger
brother of company chairman Bill Smith ’63). Hatton is “an

 

 

 

 

Hatton Smith (left) and Russ Chambliss “don’t have to do what they
do to further their business,” notes Jimmy Nolan. “They love WEL.”

’

unbelievable dynamo,” says David Long, Washington and
Lee’s director of planned and capital giving, who coordinated
the Birmingham campaign with him. “He can juggle so many
competing priorities. There’s no one else like him.”

Under Hatton’s cheerleadership, the Birmingham campaign
became a broad-based crusade to reach people of all ages and
different backgrounds. “Hatton ran the campaign from a fun
standpoint—a camaraderie-type thing,” says George Jones.
“Everything was a party as opposed to being a chore.” David
Proctor ’81 agrees: “Hatton kept everybody pumped up and
going. No matter what the amount of your contribution was, he
made you feel like you were an integral part of the process.”

His real accomplishment, according to Long, was getting
young alumni just out of college to commit $1,000 each over a
five-year period to go toward establishing a Birmingham chap-
ter scholarship. ‘The fund, which has raised $94,000 so far, will
keep the admissions program strong in a city that sent five

29

Photos (pages 29-32): C. Taylor Crothers I/ ‘93

es
“Rinaey are acti

swceessfiul ali

freshmen to Lexington this fall. “It’s considered the place to
go if you’re from Birmingham, and it makes the [older] gradu-
ates look a lot smarter than they are,” Smith adds with a laugh.

Hatton was one of six or seven people out of his graduating
class at Mountain Brook High School to attend the University
(he was torn between W&L and Vanderbilt when basketball
coach Vern Canfield called and told him, “You’re in, and we
want you.”). He graduated, as he laughingly points out, with a
“2.0000,” but fortunately for the University, his friendships
were stronger than his grades, and Washington and Lee
remained an ongoing part of Hatton’s life. He became presi-
dent of the Birmingham chapter in 1986. He spent seven years
as a class agent for the Annual Fund, rolling into his office on
Sunday afternoons and signing 300 letters until his fingers
would hurt. He returned to campus for a number of Society
and Ethics courses taught by professors Louis Hodges and
Harlan Beckley. ‘These days he’s a member of the commerce
school advisory board and the Alumni Board of Directors.

But it was the capital campaign that took his involvement to
a whole other level and reignited the Birmingham alumni
movement in the process. The September 1992 kickoff
marked the occasion of John Wilson’s first visit to the city, one
he isn’t likely to forget, in large part owing to Hatton’s “Joe
Namath introduction” of the former Academic All-American:
“What do President Wilson and Joe Namath have in com-
mon?” he asked. “Both played on national-championship
teams.” ‘That is what you call an Alabama welcome.

Hatton started out with Royal Cup as a traveling salesman,
working his way up to route supervision, district manager, and
eventually division manager. Since 1989, he has been president
of a family business which brewed up sales of $66 million in
1993—“not as big as Southern Progress,” quips Hatton, who
drinks a house blend of Kenyan and high-grade Colombian.
‘Today, the company’s market area extends as far north as
Washington, D.C., and Baltimore, and as far west as Austin and
San Angelo, ‘Texas. Royal Cup’s clients include the Waffle
House and Cracker Barrel chains, the Ritz-Carlton, and the
Jefferson Hotel in Richmond. The company is also one of
eight approved suppliers for McDonald’s.

It was William Eugene Smith—a 1934 graduate of VMI and
member of the school’s Athletic Hall of Fame—who trans-
formed struggling Batterton Coffee Co. following World War II,

30

rechristened it Royal Cup, and moved his acquisition into the
institutional coffee business. His slogan, Hatton says, was
“Great Coffee and Great People”—if you had those two
things, he reasoned, “you didn’t need a lot of money.”

Older brother Bill took the reins of the company at 26, fol-
lowing the senior Smith’s death in 1968 at age 55, and Royal
Cup has since grown from 35 employees to about 400 today.
But coffee is hardly his only calling. Bill took more than a two-
year sabbatical from Royal Cup to become full-time volunteer
chairman of the A+ Coalition for Better Education, a grassroots
effort to provide education reform in Alabama. His efforts fell
just short of victory last summer, when the state’s House of
Representatives, bowing to pressure from the religious right,
killed a Senate-passed measure for education reform. Bill
Smith’s efforts have not gone unnoticed: The Modile Register
named him Alabamian of the Year for 1993. “My brother’s very
much an innovator and also a community activist,” Hatton says
admiringly, “much more so than I am.”

Nonetheless, Hatton is involved in many things, including
recruiting 72 business types for a United Way-sponsored
loaned executive program as well as coordinating a multimil-
lion-dollar building project at the Church of the Advent. He is
also in charge of a summer program, sponsored by the church
in conjunction with the Center for Urban Missions that pro-
vides jobs and counseling for roughly 140 inner-city youths.
“It’s just a war zone,” Hatton says. “These people live in
downtown housing projects. It’s the poorest ZIP code in the
United States.”

Every other Saturday at 7:30 a.m., the group gathers in the
church basement for sessions on interviewing for jobs, opening
a bank account, and developing a budget. There’s a talk on
sex—seven or eight babies have been born to members of the
group—and participants take a walk through the county jail as
well. Since the program began, two participants have been shot
to death. “The first guy that I knew that got killed worked out
here,” Hatton says. “He wanted to be in a gang. The second
guy was killed in a retaliation shooting.”

“Inner-city crime is a tremendous problem,” he adds. “We
have to have a system that rewards those who do well, and
penalizes those who do not. I’m a believer in corporate respo™
sibility in society.” Not only that—but will Bill and Hatton
Smith, it’s a family affair.

r i
ve, cemnexrpyetic,

“I can only literally say I learned two things,” Russ
Chambliss says of his school days at W&L. “One was that a
gentleman does not lie, cheat, or steal—it ingrained the Honor
System into my being.” ‘The second came in a labor organiza-
tions course taught by E. Claybrook Griffith. “He said some-
thing in class I never have forgotten,” recalls Chambliss, who,
like most of his classmates, hailed from a management back-
ground. “While you may be providing the capital in this busi-
ness,” Griffith reminded them, “the employees are making an
investment as well. It’s their livelihood.”

Today, the company that Chambliss runs, Mason Corp.,
gives half its profits back to its approximately 200 employees.
“That’s probably the single most important factor in our suc-
cess,” says Chambliss, who with his wife, Ann, owns more than
half the company’s stock. “I have often said to myself, just
think if you had missed that lecture—and I was a threat to miss

 

a lecture now and then.”

Chambliss, an economics major, sat on the Student Affairs
Committee as Interfraternity Council president and was among
a group of students, including Doug Chase ’74 and Bob More-
cock ’75, responsible for the resurrection of Fancy Dress as the
University’s premier social event of the year (“We did Fancy

 

Dress in a big way,” he recalls, with a Mardi Gras theme in “Birmingham has always been a good supporter of WEL,” says
74). As Birmingham chapter president, Chambliss has over- David Proctor ’81 (right, with Ralph “Smitty” Smith ’73).
seen the formation of a board which meets quarterly, and the
chapter schedules three to four events each year, including a a future here.” Mason manufactures metal building products of
Lee’s Birthday Party in January, a send-off party for incoming all shapes and sizes used in school walkways, shopping centers,
freshmen in August, as well as periodic football and softball public housing units, and home improvement projects. The
games against Sewanee alumni played at Altamont School business is tied heavily to remodeling, and the company ships
(“W&L’s been holding its own lately,” he reports). its product all over North America, as well as Central and
If Hatton’s interest over the years has kept the Birmingham South America and even Europe. “W&L prepared me well for
chapter going. Chambliss is doing his part to establish a regu- the military, and it’s prepared me well for this job,” he says.
larity that will survive generations of alumni to follow. “Russ is Chambliss is chairman of an educational reform task force of
one of the most genuine men I’ve ever met in my life,” says the Chamber of Commerce and a 1995 delegate to the White
Jimmy Nolan 74, who ran against Chambliss for IFC presi- House Conference on Small Business. He’s also membership
dent. “In Birmingham, we have two very dedicated leaders in chairman of the seven-state Rebel chapter of the Young
Russ and Hatton. They don’t have to be doing what they do to Presidents Organization, an educational organization that
further their business. They love W&L.” includes Hatton Smith and Mike Jenkins, next year’s chapter
Chambliss stepped into his father-in-law’s company after president and one of three chapter chairmen with a W&L
Wo years stationed with the Army in Italy. “We agreed that I degree.) He first heard about YPO when his brother, who lives
Would try it for five years and assess whether we liked each in Richmond, was making a sales call on another YPO mem-
other. At that time we had a lot of things going and I could see ber—and W&L alumnus.

31

What drew Chambliss to W&L? As he remembers it, “I
walked into the admissions office, and I believe the only one
there was Dean Farrar [the late James D. Farrar ’49, then direc-
tor of admissions at W&L]. I had gone to camp with two guys
who were enrolled at W&L, but Dean Farrar was the stimu-
lus.” Charlie Perry relates a similar experience: On a tour of
Virginia colleges with his father, “Jim Farrar gave us all the
time we needed and he talked about the important things: the
Honor Code and the traditions; the lifestyle and the people.
The next day we went to UVa”—where his grandfather and
uncle had gone to med school—“and we sat down in a room
with 25 other people. ‘There was none of that personal touch.”

That same year, When Ralph “Smitty” Smith ’73 visited
campus for the first time, “I got a real sense of the character
and caliber of the University,” he recalls. “I was struck by how
well I would do as an individual.” Indeed, Smith became
W&L’s 11th Rhodes Scholar, a testament not only to his own
abilities but to the preparation he received from people such as
Bill Noell, assistant dean of students and director of financial
aid, who encouraged him to apply for the Rhodes Scholarship.
“It was provocative; it was probing; it was challenging,” he says
of his practice interview in Lexington. “I felt I could compete
successfully based on the foundation I had received at W&L.”

There was a lot more to college than that, of course: “It was
a wonderful four years, a time of real growth and challenge and
fun,” says Smith (who, as a sophomore, met his wife, a student
at Sweet Briar, on a blind date to an SAE Christmas party).
“W&L was an important part of my life and continues to be.
I’m happy to have the experience that I had.” While Smith
interviews law students in Lexington for positions for his firm,
the 34-attorney general practice firm of Johnston, Barton,
Proctor, Swedlaw & Nass, associate David Proctor makes it his
business to see that Birminghamians get into W&L in the first
place. “W&L is attracting a very high caliber high school stu-
dent,” says the 1981 graduate, who has run the Alumni Admis-
sions Program in his hometown for close to a decade now. In
recent years, he notes, “the program has pretty well run itself.”

‘There are two things you can count on finding in Birming-
ham: the sight of a Royal Cup truck, on its delivery rounds, and
the friendships that come with the W&L connection. William
Smith Sr. had it right from the beginning: Great Coffee. Great
People. @

32

 

There are those who
come from Birmingham to
W&L. There are those who
go from W&L to Birming-
ham. But how does one go
from rolling ’round the mud
in Red Square to becoming a
Sunday School teacher? Rob
“Mudball” Couch ’78, ’821

 

 

may not have a ready answer
for that, but he knows one
thing for certain: “Every-
thing good that ever hap-
pened to me happened at
Washington and Lee.”

The ‘Texarkana (Texas)

Rob Couch ’78, ’82L: “I owe
the University a lot,” he says.

native explains: “My wife
went to Hollins. My closest
friends to this day were peo-
ple that I met at W&L. I clerked for two federal judges [Minor
Wisdom ’25 and Lewis D. Powell Jr. ’29, ’31L).

“Throughout my life I’ve continued to benefit from that
experience—not only the education that I got in the classroom,
which prepared me well for what came after, but also being
with that group of people in Lexington, Virginia. Because of all
that, | owe the University a lot.”

Though Couch came to W&L sight unseen, he followed m
the footsteps of his great grandfather (R.B. Williams 07) and
great-great grandfather (Bryson Williams 1871). A seven-year
man and proud of it, he has been a member of the law council
since 1991. The University, it seems, is never far from his
thoughts, with a “shrine” to Robert E. Lee in his Mountain
Brook home and a fragment of the original skylight overt the
Recumbent Statue, obtained during the 1963 restoration of
Lee Chapel, in his office at Collateral Mortgage.

As an area vice chairman of the Campaign for Washington
and Lee, Couch recalls marveling at the commitment of his fel-
low Birminghamians. “When I called people to ask if they
would sign on to the campaign, no one said, no, I’m too busy.”

Jimmy Nolan can go that one better. He called on On®
retired gentleman for a campaign gift even though he attended

’ > . . . se
W&L for only six months—and this was 60 years ago. But

 

 

those six months.” Nolan

says, “meant more to him

years at the college he ulti-
mately graduated from.”
Nolan followed in his
brother’s footsteps from
Wantaugh, N.Y., to Wash-

ington and Lee (John grad-

 

uated in the spring of 1970,
and Jimmy entered the fol-
lowing fall). The 5'8", 155-
pound Nolan lettered four

years in football, flying

 

World War II prop jets for
skirmishes with his team-
Jimmy Nolan ’74: keeping in mates, characters with names
touch with four years of his life. like Fat Boy, Beets, Beast,

Skin, and Flu Belly—collec-

tively known as the Purple Piledrivers. “People who pursued
footb it W&L did it because they loved football, not
because there were any other perks in playing,” Nolan recalls.
The excitement, he says, came from the lacrosse teams of that
era: “lt was worth going to W&L to watch those guys play.”

Ne entered Cumberland Law School at Samford Univer-
sity in September 1975, living in a garage apartment belonging
to a | named Mila Hendon, the widow of a W&L alumnus
and ; rend herself in Birmingham circles. The first law job
he ey iad was working for W&L graduate Danny Markstein
63 (“pound for pound, the smartest lawyer I’ve ever seen in
his sj ilty”). He met his wife in Atlanta’s Hartsfield Airport
in the spring of 1976 as he was coming back from a W&L wed-
ding the Baltimore area. “She was waiting for a plane,
retur! from New Jersey, from visiting her boyfriend,” he
recal| We've been together about every day ever since.”
Chey were married in April 1977.

Today, Nolan practices labor and employment law, and the
Walls of his office at Lange Simpson Robinson are covered with
family photos and mementoes, including a picture of Nolan
and his fellow Purple Piledrivers. “Of all the twists and turns in
my lif he says, “W&L has certainly influenced my ultimate
direc) it’s nice to stay in touch with four years of my life.”

than the three-and-a-half

 

For fellow transplanted
northerner and classmate
Tom Angelillo ’74, his years
at W&L “were the best
years of my life”—and he’s
had some pretty good years
ever since. “I’m not sure
what I was when I came to
Washington and Lee, but
when I graduated I was a
Southern gentleman.”

In 1994, Angelillo was
named president of Southern
Progress Corp.—publisher of
Southern Living, Southern

Accents, Cooking Light, and,

Tom Angelillo ’74: a “Southern

through its Oxmoor House
division, the recent best-sell-

ing Bubba Gump Shrimp Co.

gentleman” when he graduated.

Cookbook, a recipe collection with a Forrest Gump twist.

Angelillo grew up outside Philadelphia, in Cherry Hill, N.J.,
and came to Washington and Lee on the advice of his high
school guidance counselor. “My experience at W&L was so
gratifying,” he says. “I never had one bad teacher.” He took a
full year of religion under Minor Rogers and counts among his
inspirations Bill Jenks, Ed Pinney, Len Jarrard, Holt Merchant,
Barry Machado, and James Graham Leyburn.

When he was hired to work in the company’s Oxmoor
House publishing division in 1976, Southern Progress was still
the Progressive Farmer Co., and Angelillo got in “on the
ground level of a growing company before it grew.” He started
in computer services and has worked in just about every
department. Oxmoor House alone has grown from nine people
to 135, and when Southern Progress was acquired for $485 mil-
lion by ‘Time Inc. in 1985, suddenly the small, privately held
company was part of the largest magazine publisher in the
world. “Our legacy,” he says, “is that we leave this company
stronger than when we found it.”

“I'd never leave Birmingham,” says Angelillo, who regards
his Southern Progress associates as an extended family. “One
of the reasons I| love this company so much is it reminds me of

Washington and Lee.”

33

|

Photo: Cindy PinkstonfRoanoke Times & World-News

W&L Law

Greek tragedy posing the choice be-
tween obedience to the state and adher-
ence to family or religious values—was
the subject of the second annual “Law
and Literature” Alumni College week-
end seminar Nov. 4 and 5 at Lewis Hall,
hosted by the W&L law school.

Thirty participants representing a
range of alumni classes from 1934 to
1990 attended the seminar. Teaching in
the program were law professors Dave
Caudill, Lash LaRue ’59, Uncas Mce-
Thenia °58, ’63L, and dean of the col-
lege John Elrod.

“Antigone is the standard touchstone
for reflections upon higher law in con-
trast to man-made law,” says Caudill,
who organized the seminar. Alumni
College director Rob Fure adds, “While
we certainly don’t expect to make the
choice between these laws for Antigone,
we believe the questions that choice
raises are worth thinking about—as they
have been since ancient times.”

The purpose of the seminar was to
help participants think about the play
and its central characters—Antigone,
Creon, and Ismene—first in the context
of ancient Greece and then the modern
world. LaRue led the audience through
the play, written in 441 B.C., highlight-
ing several of the key moments in the
unfolding tragedy. Elrod focused on the
19th-century German philosopher
Hegel, who in his dialectical interpreta-
tion of Antigone saw the play as about the

 

34

a

Ancient Tragedy, Contemporary Questions

Law and Literature Merge in Weekend of Antigone

 

 

 

Left: Karen Donegan Salter ’85L, a mediation consultant in Richmond, and law professor

Uncas McThentia ’58, ’63L ponder the contemporary relevance of Antigone during the second

annual “Law and Literature” Alumni College weekend seminar, as law professor Lash LaRue

59 (right) leads the discussion through the tragedy of Antigone.

fatal flaws of the Greek city-state and its
failure to recognize and permit individ-
ual moral freedom.

Faculty and participants then debat-
ed the issues of the play as an expres-
sion of current sociopolitical values. In
“Professional Responsibility and the
Psychology of Antigone,” Caudill dis-
cussed the tragedy as an illustration of
the timeless “hazards of moral life,”
then drew upon his experience in teach-
ing legal ethics to law students. Mc-
Thenia focused primarily on “civil resis-
tance” and the requirements of both

When Ray Robrecht ‘59, ’62L was greeted by a standing ovation
October by hundreds of people who had gathered at the Salem C
Center to celebrate his contributions to the Roanoke Valley, his :
prise was genuine, and their affection was real. A former comn
wealth’s attorney for Roanoke County and member of the
House of Delegates for 10 years, Robrecht died of complication
Lou Gehrig’s disease Dec. 24. A cum laude graduate of W&L,
Morristown (N.J.) native was president of Phi Gamma Delta frat
ty and associate editor of the Law Review, and was awarc
Algernon Sydney Sullivan medallion for meritorious service
University. As an amateur boxer representing the Roanoke
Athletic League, Robrecht was a Virginia Golden Gloves
and a fighter to the end. He will be missed, but not soon forgotte

making and tolerating individual public
choice. He also encouraged members of
the audience to read several speeches
aloud and to extend the debate between
Antigone and Creon in their own words.

‘The seminar received unanimously
high ratings, with many participants
requesting information about future pro-
grams. Participants attended sessions
and took their meals at Lewis Hall. The
law school, working again in conjunction
with the W&L Alumni College, has
scheduled a third annual “Law and
Literature” seminar for early November.

 
 
   
 
   
  
   
 
   
  

7 = 5
=

Marathon Finish Wins a
Crimson Campaign Pledge

On Oct. 23, Jeff Mills ’75L (adove,
left) of ‘Tucson, Ariz., and Kim Preston
69, °76L of Great Falls, Va., completed
the 19th annual Marine Corps Marathon
in Washington, D.C. In staggering
across the finish line approximately four
hours into the race, they satisfied a year-
long “stupid dare” by Richard C.
Johnson (Harvard °58, ’62L). Over din-
ner and drinks exactly one year before
the race, and accompanied by taunts
centering on weight, body fat percent-
ages, and encoraching middle age, the
skeptical Harvardian had wagered the
two dedicated (and then completely
out-of-shape) Generals that they could
not complete the 26.2 mile race in under
five hours, even if given a year to train.
Now proven wrong, the Crimson cynic
has agreed to donate the $500 wager to
the Washington and Lee law school as
part of the capital campaign.

Displaying both their indomitable
Spirit and typical insouciance, Willis and
Preston defiantly quaffed a Boston-area
brew following the race. The runners
were celebrating not only the comple-
tion of the marathon and winning the
bet, but also that they had finished at
least 10 minutes in front of talkshow
host Oprah Winfrey.

Editor’s note: The opinions expressed
about Oprah Winfrey are strictly those of the
above-pictured participants.

Uelmen Photo: Tyler Cather ‘97L/W&L Law News

 

The

Generals
Report

By BRIAN LOGUE
AND JAC GOYNE

There was an air of optimism around the
Washington and Lee athletic program head-
ing into the fall season. The 1993 fall season
had been successful and most of the teams
had younger players that had been featured
in leading roles. Those younger players
stepped it up a notch and a host of even
younger players (page 39) helped make the
pre-season hopes of Generals fans a reality.
And even though the water polo team was the
only W&L team with a losing record this
fall, it posted its best post-season finish in the
program’s 18-year history.

Men’s Cross Country

Perhaps the most pleasant surprise of
the fall was John ‘Tucker’s very, very
young cross country team. Tucker
thought his freshman class would give
W&L a shot at ending Lynchburg’s
stranglehold on the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championship and
he was on the money. In the first meet
of the season, W&L’s first four finishers
were all freshmen and that quartet was
instrumental two months later in leading
the Generals to the ODAC champt-
onship—W&L’s first in a decade. ‘The
team matched its best finish ever with a
third-place showing at the NCAA
Division III Southeast Regional.

The top runner on the team was
freshman Jason Callen who placed third
at the ODAC championship to earn all-
ODAC honors and then placed 10th at
the regional championship meet to earn
all-region honors. Callen missed qualify-
ing for the NCAAs by just nine seconds.

Also earning all-ODAC honors were

36

 

Freshman running back Seth McKinley ran for more than 100 yards in four of W&L’s final

five games to lead the Generals to a 5-4 season.

Callen’s classmates, Will Olson and
‘Taylor Shultz. Callen and Olson both
earned all-state honors as well. ‘Tucker
was named ODAC coach of the year.

Women’s Cross Country

For the third straight year W&L won
the ODAC championship and had an
All-American runner. But it was far from
business as usual for the Generals.

‘Two-time All-American Josephine
Schaeffer missed more than a month of
the season with a stress fracture, but
W&L never skipped a beat. In their first
meet without Schaeffer they rolled to
their third straight state championship
and placed six runners on the all-state
team. Three weeks later they scored a
meet-record 15 points in winning the
ODAC title. Junior Amy Mears was the
overall winner by over a minute and was
joined on the all-ODAC team by fresh-
man Carson Flowers, sophomore Nat
Messmore, and seniors Sue Deutsch and
Kim Herring. Herring became the first
W&L runner to earn all-ODAC honors
four straight years. Head coach Jim
Phemister ran away with coach of the
year honors for the fourth straight year.

The following week, W&L’s bid to
qualify for the NCAA championships for

the first time in school history came up
short in a second-place finish to Emory
at the Southeast Regional in Atlanta, but
it matched the program’s best finish
ever. Mears finished second at the meet
to earn all-region honors while Schaeffer
made her return by finishing fourth and
joining Mears with a trip to the nation-
als. Flowers and fellow freshman Maren
Wright earned all-region honors as well.

At the NCAA Division III champi-
onships, Mears turned in the best race
of her career to finish in 18th place—an
improvement of 114 spots from her 1993
finish—and earn All-America honors.
Schaeffer reinjured herself early in the
meet, but gamely continued to finish
the race.

Football

W&L’s season began like a night
mare, but ended like a dream as the
Generals won their final four games ©
finish the season 5-4.

The Generals scored only two points
on their way to an 0-3 start, and in week
four, W&L’s offense still struggled, but
the defense played one of its best game>
of the season as the Generals defeated
Davidson 9-3. Following a 21-17 loss @
Hampden-Sydney the next week, both

! the offense and defense started clicking
as the Generals won their last four out-
ings over Sewanee, Bridgewater, Guil-
ford, and Swarthmore. The 13-7 win
over Guilford denied the Quakers the
ODAC championship.

W&L’s defense led the league in
scoring defense (13.4 ppg) and ranked
19th nationally in that category. Junior
defensive tackle Robert Hull led the
team with 106 tackles and seven quar-
terback sacks to earn first team all-
ODAC honors. Senior cornerback Jon
Wagner led the team with four intercep-
tions and also earned first team all-
league honors. Senior nose guard Jason
Chartrand and junior safety Stuart
Hogue were named to the second team
and senior linebacker Stephen Cox
earned honorable mention honors.

W&L’s constant on offense was
senior wide receiver William Propst who
had a league-leading 56 receptions to
earn first team all-ODAC honors. Fresh-
man running back Seth McKinley ran
for over 100 yards in four of W&L’s last
five games and earned a second team
mention alongside junior offensive tack-
le Robert Turner. Junior kicker Drew
Thomas (second team all-ODAC)
kicked a school-record 47-yard field goal
in the win over Guilford as well as a 43-
yard boot in the same game.

Men’s Soccer

It took a while for the 1994 W&L
team to gel, but once they did, they
played with high levels of both skill and
confidence. Coach Rolf Piranian mixed
and matched his lineup all season long,
coming up with a solid combination late
in the season that saw freshmen playing
Prominent roles in a 7-7-2 season.

Freshmen Michael Germain and
Colin Connolly bounced around the
defensive backfield, filling positions at
Sweeper, marking back, and defensive
midfielder. Classmate Gordon Meeker
finished the year second in scoring with
four goals and two assists in 10 games.

Alan Christensen, a four-year letter
Winner and one of three team captains,
Wound up his career by being named to
the all-ODAC second team for his domi-
Nance from his sweeper position. Kevin

—

Hocking, a brooding midfielder who was
named captain after just one season in
the program, led with quiet intensity.
The former lacrosse standout tallied
three goals and dished out one assist.
The third captain returning for his
senior year in 1995 was the heart and
soul of this year’s team. Jeb Wofford
exploded in midseason to take the
team’s scoring crown. His seven goals
and four assists were good enough for a
spot on the all-conference second team.

Women’s Soccer

It truly was a record season for the
Generals in 1994. The blend of crafty
veterans and talented freshmen broke or
tied 11 team and individual records on
their way to a 10-5 finish and an appear-
ance in the ODAC semifinals.

Leading the corps of veterans was
senior Marina Jackson, the backbone of
a defense that allowed just 1.59 goals
per game. Jackson was named to the
ODAC first team, the Division II-III all-
state first team and voted the defensive
MVP by her teammates. On the offen-
sive side of the ball, senior Kait Barton
led the most prolific scoring team in the
history of the program. Barton, the
offensive MVP, was third on the team in
scoring with six goals and nine assists for

21 points. Freshman Erica Reineke and
sophomore Michelle Bauman both
eclipsed the former scoring mark, with
Reineke’s 47 points (18 goals, 11 assists)
shattering the career mark (46) in just
her first year. Bauman, 1993’s leading
scorer, netted eight goals and assisted on
eight others for second-team all-ODAC
honors. Reineke was named to the
ODAC first team along with sophomore
playmaker Jenni Grant. Reineke also
garnered second team all-state honors.

Volleyball

Even with five starters returning
from a 15-12 team, three freshmen
moved into W&L’s starting lineup at
times this season and the result was a
school-record 19 wins and the runaway
best season in school history.

W&L won 10 of its last 12 matches of
the season, including a straight-game
victory over defending conference
champion Guilford, to finish at 19-8 and
tied for second in the ODAC standings
at 7-2. After destroying Emory & Henry
in the opening round of the ODAC tour-
nament at home, the Generals’ season
ended with a heartbreaking five-game
loss to Bridgewater in the ODAC semis.

Freshman Hilary Martin led the team
with 250 kills and shattered the school

 

Sentor captain Derek DeVries was instrumental in helping the water polo team to its best post-
season fishing ever, helping WEL to the semifinals of the Eastern Seaboard Championship.

37

Men’s Cross Country

Women’s Cross Country

Football (5-4)

Men’s Soccer (7-7-2)

record for hitting percentage at .310.
Martin earned first team all-ODAC hon-
ors and junior setter Cheryl Taurassi
earned second team all-ODAC honors
after notching 471 assists, including a
school record 47 against Bridgewater.
Martin and sophomore Elizabeth Bahn
both earned all-tournament honors at
the ODAC tournament.

The team’s lone senior, hitter Jenni-
fer “Goose” Garrigus, had another out-
standing season with 98 kills and helped
the Generals to the championship game
of the W&L Invitational with an excel-
lent performance against Catholic.

Women’s Soccer (10-5)

Volleyball (19-8)

Water Polo

Coming off two consecutive Division
II] championships in the EWPA, the
1994 squad went one better by qualify-
ing for the EWPA Championships in
Providence, R.I. W&L placed fourth
overall at the tournament, just two spots
off qualifying for the NCAA Champion-
ships, and finished the year ranked 20th
in the country. Spearheading the bal-
anced attack for the Generals was
sophomore Pete Sorenson who led the
team with 51 goals while getting his
teammates into the flow of the offense

Water Polo (10-13)

by dishing out a team-high 42 assists.
His 93 points helped propel Sorenson
onto the all-EWPA second team. Head
coach Page Remillard was named
EWPA coach of the year. :

Benefiting the most from Sorenson's
assists were fellow sophomore James
Silberstein and junior Rich Cober-
Silberstein dominated several games
over the course of the season, and even
with a debilitating shoulder injury, man
aged to finish second in goals with 44
while Cober finished third (37). Seni
David Silvester ended his W&L caret
by achieving the elusive 300-save

 

r

The kab Four

W&L’s Freshman Class:
it was a Very Good Year

It’s not easy being a freshman at
W&L. The task of balancing a rigorous
academic load and adjusting to an unfa-
miliar social scene while marshaling a
newfound independence can test the
most conscientious students. Add partic-
jpation in an intercollegiate sport, and
the commitment would seem over-
whelming. Consider the thoughts
and expectations of four freshmen
athletes prior to starting their col-
legiate careers.

“l expected to do better than in
high school,” says cross-country
runner Jason Callen, who ran more
than 800 miles last summer in
preparation for the season, “but |
had no idea how well I would do
here.” Football player Seth
McKinley had no idea what to
expect: “I broke my shoulder the
third game of my senior year and I
didn’t know if I'd be ready. I was
hoping that I’d get to play some.”

Volleyball player Hilary Martin
expected to be playing outside hit-
ter, she says, “and I expected to
have to fight for playing time,”
while soccer player Erica Reineke
says, “I really didn’t think that I
was even going to start,” rating
herself the fifth-best player on her
high school team. “I felt I would
be able to help the team, but I
think I just got lucky.”

Luck had nothing to do with it
for these four, each of whom burst onto
the W&L athletic scene and earned all-
conference honors while leading their
respective teams to marked improve-
ments over 1993.

Callen, a native of Woodbridge, Va.,
was the No. 1 runner on a team that fin-
ished third at the NCAA Division III
Southeast regional. Callen earned all-
Old Dominion Athletic Conference and
all-region honors while leading the
Generals to their first conference cham-
Pionship in a decade.

McKinley became the full-time tail-

back at halftime of the Generals’ fourth
game and scored a second-half touch-
down to lead W&L to its first win of the
season, a 9-3 victory over Davidson. In
the next five weeks the Johnstown (Pa.)
native ran for more than 100 yards four
times, finishing the season with a fresh-
man record 667 rushing yards and sec-
ond-team all-ODAC honors.

Playing middle blocker, Martin led
the volleyball team in kills, hitting per-
centage (a school-record .310), blocks,
and digs, helping the squad to a school-
record 19 wins. The Norfolk native

 

Was it just chance that student-ath-
letes of their caliber gravitated toward
W&L or was there something tangible
about the Lexington campus that drew
this foursome? “My mom got me inter-
ested,” says McKinley. “I came down
for a visit and just loved it. It also played
a pretty big role that I thought I could
play football.”

When Reineke, an aspiring veterinar-
ian, was looking at schools, she wanted
to play soccer, but it was definitely acad-
emics she was after. Now, she gushes, “I
can’t picture myself any other place.”

Coaches Norris Aldridge and
John Tucker contacted Callen,
who came up for a visit during
winter term last year. “I liked the
school and the guys on the team.
It was a natural choice.”

Martin’s father, Howard, and
her brother, Brad, who graduated
from W&L in 1964 and 1992,
respectively, played a pretty sig-
nificant role in her decision. “Brad
taught me how to play volleyball
and I’ve always looked up to him
about volleyball. I figured his taste
in sports was pretty good so his
taste in colleges might be too.”

The hard part comes next year,
when expectations will be sky-
high for the four to match or better
their freshman feats. But don’t
expect any sophomore slumps.
“My goal is to win ODACs before
I leave and we think that’s a defi-

 

From left: Freshmen Martin, McKinley, Reineke, and

Callen enjoyed outstanding debuts on the playing field.

made first team all-ODAC and was
named to the all-ODAC tournament
team after battling back illness to regis-
ter a season-high 21 kills in the semifi-
nals against Bridgewater.

All Reineke did was break the career
scoring record in her first season while
leading the Generals to a 10-5 finish.
The West Bloomfield (Mich.) native
broke W&L’s single-season mark in just
the seventh game and finished with 18
goals and 11 assists for 47 points in 15
games, including both W&L overtime
goals in a 3-2 win over Roanoke.

nite possibility,” says Martin.

“I don’t want to lose and I’m
making sure to push myself,”
McKinley says. “I don’t know
what I could have done in high
school because of my shoulder and now
I’m getting a chance to prove myself.”

“I hope next year that we will make
it to the Nationals,” says Callen. “We
are only going to be gaining people and
getting stronger.”

“It doesn’t matter what I do and I
don’t think it should be important,” says
Reineke. “The team’s success is more
important than my success.”

Whatever the future holds for these
four student athletes, the first time truly
was the charm.

—By Jac Coyne and Brian Logue

39

Alumni News

“A Sentimental Journey”—a look
back at World War II through a Wash-
ington and Lee window—is the working
theme for a special Homecoming
reunion in October celebrating the 50th
anniversary of the end of World War II.

On the weekend of Oct. 5-7, the
Alumni Association will be sponsoring a
cluster reunion for the classes of 1944
through 1948 in addition to its annual
Five-Star Generals gathering. “These
classes were terribly fragmented as a
result of the war,” says Rob Mish ’76,
associate director of alumni programs for
Washington and Lee.

Adds assistant director of major gifts
Tom Jennings, who is working with a
committee to establish a World War II
memorial scholarship: “The war was a
common experience for 90 percent of
the people who attended W&L during
these years, although with vastly differ-
ent attendance experiences.”

Mish promises a weekend grander in
scale than the usual Homecoming fes-
tivities, beginning on ‘Thursday, Oct. 5,
with a keynote speaker drawn from the
ranks of W&L alumni.

A number of seminars focusing on
various aspects of World War II and the
University’s involvement in the war are
scheduled for Friday, Oct. 6. The week-
end’s grand event takes place Friday
night, including cocktails, dinner, and
dancing with the Glenn Miller Orches-
tra in Warner Center.

Activities on Saturday, Oct. 7, begin
with a memorial service in Lee Chapel
followed by the Homecoming Parade
and luncheon. ‘The Generals will do bat-
tle with the Davidson Wildcats on
Wilson Field that afternoon.

In addition, Washington and Lee will
publish a book of alumni reminiscences
of World War II, particularly as they
relate to the University, to coincide with
the war years reunion this fall. Alumni
with tales to share of the W&L/WWII
connection are encouraged to write: War
Stories, Washington and Lee University,
Publications Office, Mattingly House,
Lexington, VA 24450.

40

>.

War Reunion Plans Underway for October
Five-Star Generals, Classes of 1944-48 on the Guest List

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lieutenant and Mrs. Burr Miller ’49 on their wedding day in 1944. The couple was married

on an Army Air Force Base in Topeka, Kan.,
War Stories: Chapter One

When Burr Miller and Carolyn Baily
celebrated 50 years of marriage last April
16 with a church service and reception
at St. Timothy’s Episcopal Church in
West St. Louis County, Mo., the high-
light of the event was the presence and
participation of the Rev. Jack Meyers
from Pittsburgh. “He was the chaplain
who married us in the Topeka, Kansas,
Army Air Force Chapel on April 14,
1944,” Miller writes. “Never knew him
before or seen him since. We found him
through the book of Presbyterian
Church ministers, called him up, invited
him, and he accepted.”

The Millers were married in Topeka
after the Army Air Corps cancelled
Burr’s pre-overseas leave, scuttling the

when Miller’s leave home was cancelled.

plans to be married in Manhasset, N.Y.
Burr was a B-24 bomber pilot with a
crew of 10 headed for the Eighth Air
Force, and Carolyn was a senior at
Maryland College in Luthersville. “We
had been going together since 1939,”
Miller says. “She rode a troop train for
two days from Baltimore to Topeka to
see me, and we were married by
Chaplain Myers.”

Following the war, Carolyn and their
infant son, Jeff, came to W&L in 1946
and ended up in a pre-fab in Davidson
Park. “‘We’ graduated in 1949,” Miller
says. “We were Sunday dinner Betas
with our best friend, Stewart Epley 49.”

Miller is retired now, a self-described
“survivor” of 37 years with Procter and
Gamble. He and Carolyn will celebrate

51 years of marriage this spring.

 

,

Two Ex-Generals Marshal
Rose and Carquest Bowls

[Ir’s not often that you see Division
[I] football players on the field in two
big-time college football bowl games,
but on Jan. 2, two former W&L football
standouts, Courtney Mauzy ’61 and
Robin Wood 62, found themselves run-
ning all over the turf at the Rose Bowl
and the Carquest Bowl—not wearing
pads and a helmet but rather donning
the telltale stripes of referees. After
working the regular season as Atlantic
Coast Conference officials, both were
selected to be the head referees (the
one with the white hat and microphone)
for two much watched football games.

Mauzy, an ACC varsity official for 19
years, found himself refereeing the
granddaddy of them all, the Rose Bowl,
in which second-ranked Penn State
defeated No. 11 Oregon, 38-20. He
earned the honor after placing first out
of all ACC officials at the referee posi-
tion, according to ACC supervisor of
officials Bradley Faircloth.

The tri-captain for the 1961 football
squad finished tops in all criteria—per-
formance, physical condition, test
scores, observer reports, and coaches’
scores—to secure his trip to Pasadena.
As a senior at W&L, he played every
game at center for the 8-0-1 Generals
while earning Phi Beta Kappa honors
off the field. Mauzy lives with his wife
of 33 years, Bo, in Raleigh, N.C., where
he works in the wholesale business.

An ACC varsity official since 1975,
Wood ranked third out of his peers in
the necessary prerequisites for a bowl
bid. His qualifications were good
enough for the top job at the Carquest
Bow! at Joe Robbie Stadium in Miami,
where Wood blew the whistle as South
Carolina defeated West Virginia, 24-21.

In addition to being on coach Lee
McLaughlin’s undefeated ’61 football
team, Wood helped the 1962 team post
a 9-0 record from the backup quarter-
back spot. A partner with Edmunds,
Williams, Robertson, Sackett, Baldwin
& Graves, he has taught Virginia Law
and Procedure as an adjunct professor at
the School of Law since 1980. Wood
and his wife, Mina, live in Lynchburg.

 

Parsons Comes Home to
Communications Fold

Frank A. Parsons °54, coordinator of
facilities planning at Washington and
Lee since 1989, has been named direc-
tor of special communications projects.
In his new position, Parsons will plan
and develop special communications
projects during the period leading up to
the University’s 250th birthday, or dicen-
quinquagenary. He will also assist. the
news and publica-
tions staff on new
and ongoing pro-
jects, including the
Alumni Magazine.

Following a
brief stint as man-
aging editor of the
Clifton Forge (Va.)
Daily Review, Par-
sons returned to
W&L in late 1954
as director of pub-
licity. He has since served as university
editor, director of development, and as
assistant to presidents John D. Wilson,
Robert E.R. Huntley, and Fred C. Cole.

With Parsons’ new appointment,
responsibility for facilities planning at
Washington and Lee will be handled by
Bill Elswick, director of buildings and
grounds.

 

 

Frank Parsons °54

German Department Plans
25th Reunion Abroad

‘The German department is trying to
reestablish contact with all earlier
German majors and near-majors (that is,
students who took a lot of German but
are not formally recorded as having
majored in it). Many changes have
occurred in the department in recent
years that will be mentioned in a
newsletter that is being planned.

Professor of German David B.
Dickens and his family took a cross-
country trip last summer during which
he visited a number of former students,
including Shane McAlister °75 in
Arkansas, Lee Madinger ’70 and Lee
Redmond ’74 in Los Angeles, Bill
Forland ’75 in Seattle, John Gregorich
°77 and Ken Holda ’76 in Illinois, and

 

Mike Spaulding °76 in Ohio. The
Dickens also enjoyed a visit with W&L
junior Tina Charney and her family in
Albuquerque, N.M. Several of these
alumni, as students, participated in the
department’s spring term in Germany.

As 1996 marks the 25th anniversary
of W&L’s study abroad programs, there
was some discussion of the possibility of
a 1996 reunion—in Germany, of course.
Alumni who recall those memorable
days (and nights) in Bayreuth, Bamberg,
Nurnberg, and elsewhere, and are inter-
ested in such a reunion, are encouraged
to drop a line to Dickens c/o the German
and Russian department at Washington
and Lee.

Nominations Sought
For Alumni Board

Each year a three-member nominat-
ing committee is impaneled to fill
vacant seats on the Alumni Board of
Directors and to elect an alumni repre-
sentative to the University Committee
on Intercollegiate Athletics.

Under Article 9
of the by-laws of
the Washington
and Lee Alumni
Inc., all members
of the Alumni
Association may
submit names to
the Nominating
Committee for
nomination to the
offices to be filled.
The Nominating
Committee is now receiving the names
of candidates to fill five seats on the
Alumni Board of Directors and one
vacancy on the University Committee
on Intercollegiate Athletics. Candidates
should demonstrate service to both
Washington and Lee (alumni chapter
activity, class agent, AAP, etc.) and to
their communities (civic, philanthropic,
political, etc.).

Alumni may send names directly to
committee chairman Mason T. New ’62,
c/o Branch, Cabell & Co., P.O. Box
2278, Richmond, VA 23219, or to the
office of the Executive Secretary of the
Alumni Association by April 1.

Mason New ’62

41

 

Bluegrass Christmas: From left, Louisville
chapter vice president Powell Starks ’83,
‘SSL, admissions chair Fiona Harkess
Blocker ’90, and Christie Champlin ’90,
‘93L celebrate the spirit of the season, WEL

style, at a chapter reception Nov. 30.

 

Royal welcome: Von Graham II ’80, left,
and his wife, Connie, get a New Orleans
howdy from area chairman King Milling ’60
at the Windsor Court Hotel Oct. 5. The

WEL campaign gathering recetved a mention
in the society pages of the Vimes-Picayune.

Milling 1s a third-generation alumnus.

 

Krom left, Atlanta chapter president David

Perdue ’85, and board members Matt
Calvert 75, ’79L, and Mike Armstrong
were among those who gol together Oct. 20 to
discuss plans for the chapter, including a
luncheon lecture with law dean Barry
Sullivan at the Buckhead Club Dec. 8.

 

 

 

 

>
Ce Dente 79 mp
3 Sam Painter 72L and his wife, Brenda,

 

EL BR
we ow - > ot .
- ‘al a
iS

talk with Johnny Folsom ’73 at a Palmetto
chapter reception Oct. 5 in Columbia, §.C.
The chapter Te. entl y selected Forrest Jenkins
‘84 as president, Thomas Otis ’92 as vice
president, and William LaMotte ’92 as

SEC vetary/treasu TeT.

 

Now, this ts tailgating: From left, Betsy
Maclntosh, Wick Hollingshead ’61, Mary
Cloud Hollingshead, and Andrew Maclntosh
gather prior to the W@L-Swarthmore game
Nov. 12. The vintage auto with the Mink
plate was passed down to Wick from his
grandfather and served as a float in the
1960 Mock Convention parade.

 

In the bleachers: From left, Ned Coslett 70,
Jel and “Stormin’” Norm Lord, and Logie
Bullitt ’67 strike a pose during the action of
the W&L-Swarthmore game Nov. 12. The
tailgate reception prior to kickoff was spon-
sored by the Philadelphia alumni chapter.
The Generals defeated the Garnet, 14-11.

The final kickoff event of the Campaign for

Washington and Lee, for the Northern New
Jersey chapter, was held Nov. 2 at the
Baltusrol Golf Club in Springfield, N.J.,
site of the U.S. Open golf championship in
years past. From left, trustee Ted Van Leer
51, recently retired trustee Tom Wolfe ’51,

President Wilson, and trustee Bob Banse

 

SIL were among those present.

Charleston (W.Va.) chapter treasurer Erte
Nelson ’83, president Judd Hartman 83,
and vice president Ed Tilley ’90L gathered
their forces for a chapter luncheon Nov. 28
at the law offices of Spilman, Thomas &
Battle. Director of alumni programs Jim

Farrar ’74 was the guest speaker.

Annual Fund

Alumni Giving by Undergraduate and Law Classes

Class/Agent

02-19

°20-'29

°30 Herb Jahncke

°30L

31

"31L

"32

°32L

33 Charlie Longacre
°33L Frank Bigham
’34 Scotty Mosovich
"34L

°35

°35L

"36

°36L

°37

°37L

38 Ernie Williams II
"38L

39 George Goodwin
°39L

40 Ross Hersey

*40L

*41 Al Fleishman

"41L

"42 Jim Warms

*42L

*43A&L Al Darby Jr.
*44A&L Jay Cook Jr.
"“45A&L

"‘46AKL

*47A&L Warren Merrin Jr.
*48 Andy McCutcheon
*48L Carter Allen

"49 Charlie Treadgold
*49L Bill Greer

50 Dug Dugger

"SOL George Gray

51 Dave Kerr

‘SIL

"52 Boyd Leyburn Jr.
"S2L,

53 G. Castle, P. Smith
*53L Bob Banse

54 W. Wright, B. Cross
"54L Don Klenk

"55 Ray Smith

"SSL Jay Jackson

'S6 J. Lunger, C. MacIntosh
‘S6L Reno Harp III
'S7 Dick Laskey

'S7L Opie Pollard

‘58 Howard Packett
"S8L Mark Davis

'S9 T. McKeldin, D. Meese
‘S9L Bill Lemon

‘60 Dave Weaver

‘60L Bill Crowell Jr.
‘61 B. Bowen, B. Johnston
‘61L Michael Masinter
62 Jack Vardaman Jr.
‘62L Leigh Ansell

‘63 Tom Moore, Bob Hunt
‘63L Tim Ireland

Donors

2
27
15

Dollars

$150
6,335
4,545
225
2,275
250
1,045
250
8,170
150
3,075
100
1,050
200
3,260
150
8,475
50
11,650
1,100
25,005
1,475
57,500
200
8,885
100
12,101
2,650
15,475
7,610
15,655
6,930
4,185
1,925
14,410
13,234
1,350
37,269
4,525
37,907
6,500
21,505
4,650
55,563
7,000
20,195
1,450
30,594
3,024
7,765
400
17,620
4,300
28,450
7,500
47,490
6,150
32,780
400
15,219
2,200
12,837
3,270
22,301
1,125

Participation (%)

28.6
22.1
33.3
50.0
25.6
16.7
17.1
22.2
32.2
25.0
22.4
12.5
20.7
25.0
23.3
40.0
22.0
12.5
21.5
33.3
21.8
31.6
30.6

9.1
23.9
10.0
23.0
27.3
28.4
17.4
22.6
20.2
24.0
21.3
35.9
25.5

6.0
31.1
34.2
24.5
20.0
17.4
17.1
20.6
27.6
16.4
16.0
21.0
22.2
14.9
15.8
23.0
22.2
19.3
25.0
30.1
25.0
29.6

9.1
22.4
18.8
22.0
20.0
23.3
21.4

Goal (%)

15.0
63.4
45.5
225.0
56.9
12.5
69.7
62.5
108.9
37.5
30.8
16.7
26.3
20.0
32.6
50.0
70.6
1.3
38.8
44.0
62.5
49.2
95.8
40.0
35.5
1.0
60.5
94.6
61.9
30.4
87.0
46.2
59.8
21.4
93.0
57.5
27.0
62.1
45.3
54.2
72.2
55.1
38.8
49.0
87.5
46.4
36.3
68.0
67.2
28.2
11.4
56.0
39.1
52.2
65.2
59.4
82.0
69.7
8.3
46.8
44.0
18.0
36.3
50.0
25.0

Class/Agent Donors
64 Don McFall 58
*64L Pete Straub 9
65 S. Chase, M. McCord 54
*65L Leyburn Mosby Jr. 8
66 Jack Baber, Randy Lee 45
66LHenry Counts Jr. 5
67 Jay Turner Jr. 63
*°67L Bob Powell III 8
68 Joe Matthews Jr. 50
*68L Joe Brown 8
69 P. Norwood, R. Hartwell 73
*69L Dave Redmond 8
°70 Dean Kumpuris 64
°70L Ed Crosland Jr. 6
°71 Drake Leddy 62
°71L Robin Hartmann 7
72 Bruce Wilsie, Don Weir 54
°72L Steve Annand 10
°73 Meade Kampfmueller 59
°73L Greg Digel 20
°74 Jim Farrar Jr. 78
°74L Steve Elkins 18
°75 G. Kerr, S. Van Amburgh 76
*75L Grady Frank Jr. 19
°76 Rob Mish 58
°76L Pat Arey 11
°77 Jimmy Brooks 67
°77L Morgan Maxwell III 11
78 Peter Keefe 56
*78L John Klinedinst 12
79 S. Jones, J. Bovay 70
*79L John Murphy 21
*80 Sidney Simmons II 61
*80L Chris Wolf 12
"81 J.R. Sult 48
*81L Dave Weaver 20
82 Tripp Brower III 58
*82L D. Black, L. Thomas 17
*83 Scott Bond 42
*83L Millard Fretland 26
*84 Thompson, Stradtman 79
*84L Mike Pace Jr. 13
85 Tad Renner III 57
*85L Jon Rak 18
*86 R. Ellis, M. Slack 62
*86L Kirk Ludwig 7
*87 J. Atkins, A. Caruthers 51
*87L Dayton Haigney III 18
88 G. Schulz, J.Gammage 73
*88L Powell Starks 18
*89 F. McCormick, J. Drake,

R. Singletary, K. Kelso 51
*89L Alan Ragan 16
"90 D. Hagewood, J. Durant 68
*90L John Falk, Tim Hodge 21
91 S. White, C. Meyer 47
91L Vaughan Gibson 10
92 G. Wilbourn, R. Folline 40
°92L P. Harrison, J. Lane 15
93 J. Levinson,A. Salisbury 70
°93L Lawson, Godlewski 20
"94 J. Kull, M. Nielsen 239
°94L B. Surgner, L. Kleine 41

Dollars

24,785
1,675
16,175
1,090
9,771
3,800
19,400
2,850
33,361
2,240
30,735
1,775
49,600
975
35,735
4,500
34,325
3,225
25,145
4,985
22,252
13,225
33,223
13,375
23,990
3,475
24,180
3,700
17,575
4,670
16,265
6,093
18,962
3,820
11,235
4,730
15,151
3,085
11,620
3,143
17,407
1,215
8,715
2,720
6,445
475
3,785
2,410
7,408
2,585

5,875
1,490
4,200
2,120
3,540
1,645
2,285
1,110
3,207
1,105
6,765
2,905

Participation (%)
25.4
21.4
26.0
20.0
20.8
11.9
32.1
17.4
22.9
13.3
30.5
14.0
19.8
13.3
21.2
12.3
17.1
14.9
17.0
20.8
21.1
20.7
24.3
24.4
16.9
15.1
19.9
14.7
16.1
17.1
18.9
17.7
16.5
11.0
15.4
17.2
18.1
15.5
11.9
20.0
22.3
11.8
15.8
14.4
18.1

5.9
14.5
15.5
20.1
14.6

12.8
13.3
16.3
17.8
10.0

8.9

9.8
11.9
16.4
13.9
61.6
34.8

(Figures as of Dec. 15, 1994.)

Goal (%)
54.5
37.2
42.0
31.1
39.1
55.9
73.2
40.7
50.2
38.6
48.4
34.1
70.9
10.6
68.1
64.3
58.7
41.4
68.0
39.9
50.6
69.6
79.1
72.3
60.0
38.6
60.5
45.1
58.6
93.4
54.2
47.6
71.6
38.2
37.5
48.3
59.4
56.1
58.1
54.2
51.2
17.4
37.1
27.2
37.9
15.8
27.0
80.3
54.9
86.2

43.5
53.2
38.2
42.4
35.4
51.4
25.4
74.0
42.8
50.2
104.1
193.7

Class Notes

’
2/

Dr. Alexander 8. Moffett

recently visited with Harry Neel °28

for the first time in many years and

renewed a valued friendship. He

lives in Grinnell, lowa.

’
28
Percy (Pete) Cohen
was among the oldest graduates to
attend Homecoming festivities in
October. He and classmate Harry B.
Neel have attended the last three
Homecoming weekends. Cohen,
Neel, and Winson Barker ’27 rode in
a horse-drawn carriage during the
third annual Homecoming parade.

30
John H. Nelson

is “up and about” in Danville, Va.
“It just takes longer to get there.”

’
ae

Sollace M. Freeman

has been retired for 20 years and

happily married for 56 years. He
lives in Jacksonville, Fla.

’
34

William W. Barron

celebrated his 83rd birthday in

Charlotte in December. Barron is a
former governor of West Virginia.

Scott Mosovich

has been a class agent for more than
20 years and lives in Coconut Creek,
Fla.

Dr. George W. Pedigo Jr.

is retired from an internal medicine
practice and is a professor emeritus
at the University of Louisville
Medical School. He is also a master
member of the American College of
Physicians.

Edwin H. Pewett

was glad to see his classmates at his
60th reunion in October. He attend-
ed the festivities with his wife, son,
and daughter-in-law.

aD

James M. Franklin

and his wife celebrated their 54th
anniversary last June in Clearwater,
Fla. He earned a gold medal in the
backstroke at the Florida Senior
Olympics several years ago and
hasn’t forgotten Cy ‘'wombly’s
coaching. He hopes to return for his
60th reunion in 1995.

;
36
Harry J. Breithaupt Jr.
has almost retired from the practice
of law in Washington, D.C., and
maintains a residence there and one
in Virginia Beach, from where he
manages his cattle interests in Idaho
and his partnership in the interna-
tional counseling firm Asbury,
Breithaupt & Senoyez.

W. Magruder (Mac) Drake

is still enjoying retirement after 14
years of it. He had a delightful time
at the Alumni College program,
“The Age of Rembrandt and
Vivaldi,” held in July.

Charles A. Sweet

went trout fishing in Montana,
Maine, and Labrador last year. He
also enjoyed hearing from class-
mates Price Davis and Herb Sloan
and Zoe Powell Lane, widow of
classmate Ken Lane.

’
a7

Parke S. Rouse Jr.

has written a new book, A/ong

Virginia’s Golden Shores, published
by Dietz Press in Richmond.

’
3S

Charles F. Clarke Jr.

is still practicing law with Squire,

Sanders & Dempsey in Cleveland.

39

William A. (Art) Beeton
enjoyed the Five-Star Generals
reunion over Homecoming week-
end in October. He lives in
Lexington, Va.

’
40
Dr. Jerome A. (Jerry) Sacks
reports that his youngest daughter
graduated from Duke University
last May, but “the expenses don’t
stop just yet. She’s now at Stanford
for an M.A.” Sacks lives in
Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

’
4]
Alvin T. Fleishman
received Tri-County Technical
College’s third Adjunct Faculty
Presidential Award at the faculty/
staff convocation last May. The
award is presented to the adjunct
faculty member who demonstrates
excellence in teaching, who has high
student evaluations, and who sup-
ports the philosophy and goals of
the college.

’
4?
W. John Daniel
lives in Huntsville, Ala., where he

participates in various church, civic
club, and Huntsville-Madison
County Botanical Garden activities.

James §. Hill

is retired as president of George W.
Hill & Co., a wholesale distributor
of horticultural supplies in Indiana,
Kentucky, Ohio, and West Virginia.
He lives in Ft. Mitchell, Ky.

’
44

Dr. William C. Crittenden

retired from the practice of pedi-

atrics and lives in Birmingham,

where his son, Richard °73, is an

internist.

’
45

T. Haller Jackson Jr.

of Shreveport, La., received the

1993 Distinguished Attorney Award

from the Louisiana Bar Foundation

at a ceremony held last May.

48L

T. Haller Jackson Jr.
See °45.

’
49

Dr. William C. Smith Jr.

is serving as interim minister of the

People’s Church, United Church of
Christ, in Dover, Del.

’
50

William H. Hilton-Green

is enjoying golf and yard work in his

new home in Pensacola, Fla. He

retired from Fillette, Green Travel

and Steamship Agents in 1989.

Arthur Marenstein

was unable to attend Alumni
Colleges in 1992 and 1993 due to ill
health, but he hopes to take a class
in 1995. While recuperating, he was
grateful for 7he New York Times,
books, and public television.

’
51

Abram D. (Abe) Jones Jr.

has retired as arts editor of the
Greensboro (N.C.) News & Record.
Over his long career, he was a
reporter, editorial writer, editor of
the editorial pages, and arts editor.

Robert H. Salisbury Jr.

is in his 40th year of teaching politi-
cal science at Washington Univer-
sity in St. Louis.

;
be

Charles B. Castner Jr.

of Louisville, Ky., played the piano

at a Fort Worth (Texas) boogie

summit last May. His readings of

 

=

“Roll ’em Pete” and “Piney Brown
Blues” were precise replicas of the
Pete Johnson-Joe Turner originals

from the Depression.

S2L

The Hon. A. Dow Owens
retired as a circuit court judge last
July. He lives in Pulaski, Va.

’
53

Stephen F. Lichtenstein

of Lawrenceville, N.J., retired as

general counsel of Lenox Ine. in
October.

‘54

Herwig R. (Johnny) Brandstetter
retired as head of the presidial and
administration department of the
chamber of commerce of Styria,
Austria. He remains active as chair-
man of the committee for humani-
tarian aid, for which he coordinated
aid missions to the former Yugo-
slavia, helped reconstruct a hospital
in Albania, and provided special
assistance to refugees.

Bertram §. Griffith Jr.

of Grand Blanc, Mich., retired last
July after more than 30 years in the
business equipment industry. He is
writing a biography of his father’s
experiences during World War I.

H. Gordon Leggett Jr.

and his wife, Pat, had a wonderful
time on the Alumni College
Abroad’s cruise to Copenhagen,
Scotland, Dublin, and the Isle of
Scilly in August. Pat is chair of the
Board of Trustees’ capital projects
committee.

SAL

A.A. (Al) Modena

retired as president and chief execu-
tive of the Flat Top National Bank
in Bluefield, W.Va., in October,
after 40 years of service.

’
56
Dr. Ronald W. Fast
retired as an applied scientist at
Fermi National Accelerator
Laboratory last February. A holder
of one patent, he published 69 tech-
nical papers during his career. From
1980 to 1992, he was editor of
“Advances in Cryogenic
Engineering.” Fast and his wife,
Jean, live in Tucson, Ariz.

’
Ys

James M. Boswell

has moved back to Germantown,

Tenn., where he is a part-time Con-

sultant. He helped his wife open 4

fabric and antiques shop “without

ever being paid.” Now that sons
Rob "91 and Marshall ’88 are on
their own, he has more time for golf

and travel.

William A.G. Boyle
See T. Patton Adams ’65.

pr. Alfred J. Magoline Jr.

has been a practicing ear, nose, and
throat specialist in Akron, Ohio, for
21 years. He is also chief of the oto-
laryngology service at Akron
Children’s Hospital Medical Center.
Magoline has two sons who are
physicians including Michael ’89.

Dr. Bernard Schaaf Jr.
is still practicing urology and raising
two daughters in Brawley, Calif.

Isaac N. (lhe) Smith Jr.
chaired the organizing committee of
The First International Conference,
Prevention: The Key to Health for
Life in Charleston, W.Va.

59

Reginald K. Brack

has stepped down as chief executive
officer of Time Inc. after nearly four
years. Under his leadership, the
number of magazines published by
the company rose from eight to 24,
and revenues increased from $2.1
billion to $3.3 billion last year. Brack
maintains his position of chairman.

William K. Hughes

was named president and CEO of
Clad-Rex Inc., a vinyl-metal lami-
nating company in Franklin Park,
ill.

60

Richard H. Blond

is retiring after 26 years with
Northwest Air to devote his time to
the Episcopal Church and hospital
chaplain work. Blond lives in
Bainbridge Island, Wash.

Dr. Richard W. Cohen

is a delegate to the American
Medical Association from Georgia.
He is also chairman of the Atlanta
Committee for the Olympic Games
Doping Control Commission.

60L,

Isaac N. (Ike) Smith Jr.
See °57.

‘61

Peter T. Straub

recently returned from Arizona,
where he rode a bicycle from the
south rim of the Grand Canyon to
Nogales, Mexico.

Winthrop L. (Windy) Weed

'S a design and development consul-
tant for Ipoh Garden, a Malaysian
Property developer in Sydney,

Australia. He has lived “down
under” for the past eight years.

61L

John D. Buchanan Jr.

was elected president of the Florida
Academy of Hospital Attorneys for a
two-year term at the annual meeting
of the Florida Hospital Association
in Orlando in November. Buchanan
specializes in health-care law and is
a partner in the law firm of Henry,
Buchanan, Mick, Hudson & Suber
in Tallahassee.

63

Warren B. Hughes Jr.

owns Rep Finders, which locates
and screens independent sales rep
firms for manufacturers. He lives in
Media, Pa., with his wife, Mary, who
is also active in the business.

’
64

Richard T. Goode

was named N.C. professor of the

year by the Carnegie Foundation for

the Advancement of ‘Teaching.

Queens College students donned

“Have a Goode Day” buttons to

commemorate the occasion. Goode

has taught at Queens since 1978.

O4L

Peter T. Straub
See ’61.

’
65
T. Patton Adams IV
traveled to Bermuda last August and
met the new mayor of Hamilton,
Bill Boyle °57. Adams was mayor of
Columbia, S.C., from 1986 to 1990,
so the two compared duties and
mayoral experiences. Adams
described welcoming the Pope to
Columbia in 1987, but Boyle topped

that story; he entertained Queen
Elizabeth and Prince Phillip.

James N. Cargill Jr.

and his wife, Gloria, live in Newport
News, Va., where he works as an
independent investor and she teach-
es at St. Mary’s School.

William 8. David
is associate publisher of 7own ©
Country magazine in New York City.

Jaquelin H. (Jack) DeJarnette
of Columbia, Mo., was recently
appointed to the Mary Baldwin
College Advisory Board of Visitors.

William H. Supon Jr.

is head of the foreign language
department at Cedartown (Ga.)
High School. This past summer he
spent three weeks in Mie
Prefecture, Japan, teaching English
to sixth, seventh, and eighth-grade
students in a small town there.

 

(ne Man’s Crusade

I was reviewing a list of the “friends” of the University the
other day—those who, although not alumni, have found it within
their hearts and their wherewithal to be supportive of the aims of
the campaign. I reflected upon
several of those names and the
fact that their belief in the val-
ues and traditions of this old
school as demonstrated by
their generosity derives exclu-
sively from the words and
deeds of one man—a man
Washington and Lee honored
in 1989 with the accolade of
Distinguished Alumnus. Robert
W. Hilton Jr. °39 of Cincinnati
is a remarkable man in so many
ways, and his quiet, behind-
the-scenes work to ensure that
his @/ma mater prospers long
after he has departed should
not go unnoticed. Rather than
repeat in this space the extraordinary gift of self he has made to
W&L over the years as was heralded in this magazine more than
five years ago, I shall instead focus on the Bob Hilton I know as a
proselytizer (and, given the teasing I take from him about being a
Methodist, I choose this appellation with special care!).

Bob’s convictions about the intrinsic good that abounds at
Washington and Lee are deeply held. He never hesitates to share
those sentiments with others—be they alumni, faculty, administra-
tors, or even clients who have never set foot on this campus. When
Bob and his lovely wife, ‘Tiel, made their first income-retained gift
some years ago he marveled that such arrangements provided a
superb means of supporting his beloved W&L while simultane-
ously offering the donor significant income, tax, and estate-orient-
ed advantages. This “revelation” began a kind of crusade for Bob
that has made him my most ardent comrade-in-arms. Having ren-
dered faithful legal counsel—leavened with his special brand of
wit and charm—to a number of clients over the years, Bob saw an
opportunity to educate these friends not only about the unique
benefits afforded by planned giving, but also about Washington
and Lee and our common belief that honor, integrity, and service
are absolutely unassailable values that cannot be permitted to dis-
appear gradually from our collective experience. Armed with the
spirit of the proselytizer and his newfound knowledge about
planned giving arrangements, Bob conquered the hearts of his
clients, and to date has brought 13 separate planned gifts to
Washington and Lee, completely apart from his and ‘Tiel’s. Four
new scholarship endowments exist because of his efforts. Count-
less generations of students will benefit as a result of his love.

Thus, Robert W. Hilton Jr. merits a place high among the pan-
theon of W&L giants on whose shoulders we stand to face the
future with much greater confidence. ‘The University’s greatest
strength, in my mind, lies in the manner in which our alumni give
real meaning to our institutional values in their daily lives. Bob’s
magnificent example will inspire and challenge W&L men and
women forever.

Bob Hilton, comrade-in-arms.

David R. Long
Director of Planned and Capital Giving

‘We Will Remember’

The geography of Bob Williams’ life is simple to map. One block
from his childhood home in Buena Vista is the red-brick school build-
ing where he earned his high school diploma, and where middle
school children know him as their principal today. Behind the school
is the field where Williams oversaw varsity football practice for 21
years. Beyond those walls is Magnolia Avenue, where Williams
hitched rides to Washington
and Lee before graduating in
1962.

In the other direction on
Magnolia, set back against
the railroad tracks and the
river, is the Parry McCluer
playing field where Williams
compiled one of the most
illustrious coaching records in
Virginia high school gridiron
history before retiring this
season: 198 wins, 54 losses,
four ties; 12 district champi-
onships; 12 regional champi-
onships; and five state
crowns (in 1977, 1979, 1983,
1986, and 1987).

Despite winning All-
District honors as a senior at
Parry McCluer, Williams
played only one season of football for the Generals, as a second-team
center behind Courtney Mauzy ’61 (see Alumni News, page 4/).
Instead, he concentrated in baseball, starting in left field all four years.
‘The team posted an 8-4 record his senior year, the only winning sea-
son during his college playing days.

A recipient of the Rockbridge County Scholarship, Williams gradu-
ated from W&L with a degree in history and taught English for two
years at Parry McCluer while coaching several jayvee teams. In 1964,
he was hired as assistant football coach at Lexington High School, and
for the next 10 years, Williams learned at the side of head coach Stuart
“Pete” Brewbaker. “He was such a good student of football,” says
Brewbaker, “he was destined to be successful.”

Williams’ style of play (“very simple and very basic,” he says,
“things I learned from Coach Brewbaker”) manifested itself quickly in
his first season as head coach at Parry McCluer. The Fighting Blues
would grind out yardage on the ground, then shut down opponents
defensively. It wasn’t fancy, but it won ball games. ‘The team went
9-0-1 in 1974 before losing in the first round of the playoffs.

Buena Vista is fortunate that Williams stayed during two decades
when several industries and many residents were moving away. The
Fighting Blues’ success on the field kept the spark of pride alive in
this city of 6,000 people—especially when his teams won back-to-back
titles in 1986 and 1987, when memories of the 1985 flood were still
fresh. Parry McCluer’s teams “gave the community something to keep
it together,” Williams says, “and to pull together for.”

It’s been 33 years since Williams started pacing the sidelines and
squinting at the chains to see if his halfback got the first down. He has
a lot of golf, fishing, and time with his wife, Frances, to catch up on.
He could have ended up just as easily in banking, he says, but his love
of athletics guided him to a career in education, and his strengths for
“getting along with kids and motivating them” became evident. Does
he consider himself a great coach? “Not really.”

His players know better. One of his former players put these sim-
ple words beneath a sketch of Coach Williams surrounded by the state
championship years: “We Will Remember.”—By John F. Patton

Gridiron giant: Bob Williams ’62.

46

 

’
66

Val S. McWhorter

of Springfield, Va., was reappointed

to the State Council of Higher

Education by Gov. George Allen.

He was elected chairman of the

council last September.

Rev. Paul E. Quante

has accepted the position of associ-
ate pastor at Our Lady of Grace
Parish in Castro Valley, Calif., after
a year sabbatical and nine years as
resident chaplain, religion depart-
ment chairperson, and teacher at the
Villanova Preparatory School in
Ojai, Calif.

’
67

Dr. John R. McGill

has been elected president of the

1,600-physician Maine Medical

Association. He is a plastic surgeon

in Bangor, Maine.

Robert E. Sweeney

has joined McElvain Oil & Gas in
Santa Fe, N.M., as director of man-
agement information services.

’
68

H. Gilbert Smith Jr.

moved to Durham, N.C., last April

to become associate director of the

office of science and technology at

Duke University.

68L

W. Jay Tims

lives in Youngstown, Ohio, and is
“getting very old,” he says. He has a
son in high school and a daughter in
college.

;
69

Dr. Joseph C. Clarke Ill

has been appointed chair of the divi-

sion of social sciences at Jackson-
ville University in Florida.

David W. Hardee Ill

has been appointed president and
co-chief executive officer of Kleer
Vu Industries Inc. in Compton,
Calif. He continues to serve as a
general partner in Hardee Capital
Partners in Santa Monica.

David G. Mongan

has been named managing partner
of Whitney, Bailey, Cox & Magnani,
a consulting and engineering firm in
Baltimore. He was also elected dis-
trict five director of the American
Society of Civil Engineers repre-
senting Delaware, Maryland, north-
ern Virginia, and Washington, D.C.

David H. Stovall Jr.
received the Schley Lyons Circle of
Excellence Award from Leadership

 

7

Charlotte. Stovall is executive Vice
president of Belk Brothers Co,

Paul N. Wojcik

was recently named senior vice
president of the Bureau of National
Affairs, a Washington (D.C.) pub-
lisher of print and electronic news
and specialized information Services.

O9L

Val S. McWhorter
See ’66.

’
70
Henry L. Hills Jr.
presented his recent films and
videos in a five-year retrospective at
the Museum of Modern Art last
April. His film Little Lieutenant
screened at the Mannheim, Rotter-
dam, Singapore, Cleveland, Image
Forum, Latvia, and Black Maria film
festivals. He lives in New York City
and is currently editing a documen-
tary on Shakespeare’s Richard II]
directed by Al Pacino.

Stuart L. Porter

gave a paper on pesticide poisoning
in birds of prey at the annual meet-
ing of the Australian Association of
Avian Veterinarians in Currumbin,
Queensland, last August. He has
also been named to the board of
directors of the Rachel Carson
Council in Chevy Chase, Md.

’
/1
William A. Gatlin Ill
has moved from Jacksonville, Fla.,
to Atlanta, where he is working as
national account manager for the
Atlanta Committee for the Olympic
Games with his company, AT&T.
He and his wife, Claudia, have three
children, Claire, Douglas, and
Catharine.

Jeffrey L. Gingold

has joined the Seattle law firm of
Lane Powell Spears Lubersky as a
partner, where he heads the firm’s
health care practice group. Gingold
lives on Bainbridge Island, Wash.,
with his wife, Anne-Marie, and
daughters, Amelia and Birgitte.

Charles G. Houston

and his wife, Laura, moved from
Atlanta to Arlington, Va. He opened
a Washington (D.C.) office for the
Atlanta-based commercial developer
Carter & Associates.

Hollis C. Taggart

is president of Hollis Taggart
Galleries, specializing in American
art from 1850 to 1920, in Washing-
ton, D.C. He recently opened a
second gallery in New York.

TI” tte

77 2

William J. Modica

recently returned from visiting
Moscow, Suzdal, and St. Petersburg
in Russia. He is director of the Blue
Ridge Environmental Network in
Roanoke and made contact with
environmental groups in the new
Russian Republic. While on the trip,
Modica was entertained by Warren
Wood °73 and his Russian wife.

John W. Robinson IV

was appointed chair of the American
Bar Association’s employment and
labor relations committee. Robinson
heads the labor law department for
Fowler, White, Gillen, Boggs,
Villareal and Banker in ‘Tampa, Fla.

’ 7. 3
Felix M. Drennen Ill

is president of Brice Building Co. in
Birmingham. The company con-
structs hospitals, institutional build-
ings, distribution facilities, and
shopping centers.

; 75
Matthew J. Calvert

moved to Hunton & Williams’
Atlanta office last August and is in
charge of the litigation section. He
lives in Atlanta with his wife, Helen,
and three daughters.

Benjamin M. Sherman

has been appointed national media
relations coordinator with the
National Sea Grant College
Program, a network of 29 university
programs in coast and Great Lakes
states involving more than 300 insti-
tutions in research, education, and
the transfer of technology regarding
coastal, marine, and Great Lakes
issues. He lives in Bowie, Md.

76

Robert M. Ballenger

has been appointed assistant profes-
sor of accounting at Babson College
in Wellesley, Mass. Ballenger spent
11 years in management at Unisys
Corp. and completed his Ph.D in
December from Lehigh University
in business and economics.

Dr. M. Barry Ellis

recently added an associate to his
head, neck, and ear surgery practice
in Boone, N.C. He and his wife,
Langhorne, have three daughters,
Sayre, Margaret, and Caroline.

Kerry D. Scott

recently became an FAA-certified
flight instructor and is teaching new
Pilots part time at Virginia Aviation
in Lynchburg. Scott also flies his
Own Cessna 182 “for fun.”

77

Dr. H. Cobb Alexander Jr.

of Huntsville, Ala., has three sons,
ages 13, 7, and 5, playing soccer and
a daughter, Claire, age 1.

78

Dr. William R. Schooley

lives in Nashville, Tenn., with his
wife, Barbara, and daughter, Parker,
and is a private practicing neurosur-
geon with Neurological Associates.

William G. Welch

has left Fighter Squadron 301 at
Naval Air Station Miramar, Calif.,
for a new assignment with the
Bureau of Naval Personnel in Wash-
ington, D.C. He was recently pro-
moted to commander in the Navy.

79

John Plowden

recently left Atlanta and Emory
University for the “sunny south-
west.” He is now a cardiologist and
assistant professor of pediatrics at
the University of New Mexico
School of Medicine. He and his
wife, Katy, have adopted two chil-
dren, Christopher Samuel, 20
months, and Claire Elizabeth, 7
months. The family lives in
Albuquerque.

Parker B. Potter Jr.

is administrator of planning and reg-
istration and director of publications
for the New Hampshire Division of
Historical Resources. His book
Public Archaeology in Annapolis was
recently published by the Smith-
sonian Institution Press.

Robert C. Rogers

is an associate professor of mathe-
matics at Virginia Polytechnical
Institute. His area of research is par-
tial differential equations and mate-
rials science. He and his wife,
Shirley, and children, George and
Alice, have lived in Blacksburg for
six years.

wp) %

Matthew J. Calvert
See °75.

Thomas P. Healy Jr.

is general counsel of Patrick
Engineering, a civil engineering,
architectural, and environmental
services firm headquartered in Glen
Ellyn, Ill. He lives in Evanston with
his wife, Gia Interlandi, and three
children.

‘SO

Richard L. Moss

is night city editor of the Rochester
(N.Y.) Democrat © Chronicle. He and
his wife, Pat, live in Medina.

Davidson A. Perry-Miller
has joined Abio, Adleta & Poston,
Realtors in Dallas.

‘81

Andrew M. Grisebaum

is president of Olympia Marketing
Systems Corp., which provides mar-
keting and delivery services for
approximately 80 restaurants in the
greater Houston area. He lives in
Houston with his wife, Meredith,
and children, Brooke and Andrew.

A. William Mackie

prosecutes financial and tax fraud
cases as a senior trial attorney with
the Department of Justice. He lives
in Rockville, Md., with his wife,
Linda, and three children.

Madison T. Woodward Ill

is a partner and exploration geolo-
gist with CLK Co., a domestic and
international oil and gas exploration
firm. He lives in New Orleans with
his wife, Vereen, and two sons,
Madison and Marshall.

SIL

The Rev. Charles F. Bahn

of Springfield, Mo., led a group of
20 high school youth and adults to
central Mexico for a church mission
work camp. The group helped build
several brick homes for low-income
families in Aguascalientes.

Jenelle Mims Marsh

has been named assistant dean for
student and academic affairs at the
University of Alabama School of
Law. She lives in Tuscaloosa with
her husband, Gene Marsh ’81L, an
associate professor at the law school,
and their two children, Nathan, 6,
and Elliott, 4.

Nancy Spritzer Williams

lives in Inwood, W.Va., with her
husband, Harry, and children, Zach
and Sarah. She works as assistant
division counsel and trial attorney
for the trans-Atlantic division of the
Army Corps of Engineers in Win-
chester, Va.

82

John M. Brackin Ill

is pastor of the Wesley Chapel
United Methodist Church and lives
in Suffolk, Va.

Scott D. Cooper

is sports press manager for NBC
Sports in New York City, and writes
that he is “still celebrating the
Rangers’ Stanley Cup victory.”

Major Don J. Dudley
is stationed at Fort Hood, Texas,

and flies the Black Hawk helicopter.

O2L

Richard Nikonovich-Kahn

was appointed vice president, gen-
eral counsel, and secretary of
Balfour Beatty Inc. in Atlanta. He
will continue as vice president and
general counsel for the company’s
subsidiary, Heery International Inc.

’
SI

Seng-Kah (Henry) Baey

recently made a visit to Beijing,

Dalian, and Shenzen, China to

study business and investment pos-
sibilities. He lives in Singapore.

William W. Berghel

completed his M.S. in management
from Georgia Institute of ‘Technol-
ogy in 1993 and is now a business
analyst for Federal Express in
Memphis, Tenn.

Ejay Clark

is a middle school science teacher in
Stamford, Conn., where he lives
with his wife, Kim, and twin daugh-
ters, Erin and Kassidy.

Paul A. Maurer

works for the integrated systems
division of Hewlett Packard. He
moved to Dearborn, Mich., in 1993
to work on a joint project with the
Ford Motor Co.

Edmund W. Schenecker

is a partner in Cima International,
an investment partnership in Fort
Worth, Texas. He has helped Cima
develop two Mexican subsidiaries:
Sucines, designed to operate the
country’s fourth largest chain of cin-
emas, and National Car Parks de
Mexico, organized to build, own,
and operate parking garages.

’
S4

Craig T. Reilly

is a foreign service officer with the

State Department in Washington,

D.C. He has been assigned to

Monterrey, Mexico, and will live

there for the next two years with his

wife, Deb.

S4L

Solomon L. Van Meter

has been named a partner with
Kentucky’s largest law firm, Wyatt,
‘Tarrant & Combs, in its Lexington
office. Van Meter joined the firm in
1991 and works in the commercial
litigation practice group.

85
Michael J. Lehman

is a senior consultant in the manage-
ment consulting practice of Deloitte

& Touche. He and his wife, Shauna,
live in Bexley, Ohio.

47

Dr. John D. Long

is a senior gastroenterology fellow at
‘Tulane University Medical Center.
He and his wife, Connie, live in
Metairie, La.

James Lee Williams Jr.

is an associate with the law firm of
Chappell & McGartland in Fort
Worth, Texas, practicing in the area
of civil litigation. He lives in Dallas.

’
SO

Troy E. Andrade

has taken a brief sabbatical from the

practice of law to serve as finance

director for the Elect Harry Russell

Sheriff campaign. He lives in

Jacksonville, Fla.

Dr. Guy A. Caldwell

accepted a position as a research sci-
entist in developmental biology and
neurogenetics at Columbia
University in New York.

Capt. Samuel R. Dawson

is an intelligence officer and UH-60
instructor pilot for the First 229th
Attack Helicopter Regiment in Ft.
Bragg, N.C.

Andrew Shaffer

is a veterinarian supervising research
for the global animal science division
of American Cyanamid in Princeton,
N.J. Shaffer lives in Lawrenceville.

John M. Slack IV

is a portfolio manager for Republic
Realty Mortgage Corp. in
Richmond.

87
Samuel P. Simpson V

opened his own general law practice
in Richmond in October.

John C. Spellman

earned an MBA from the University
of ‘Tennessee and is working for
Morgan, Keegan and Co. as a bond
salesman in Memphis.

‘SS

Darrin Denny

is a captain in the Marine Corps,
serving as the operations officer for

the Fleet Anti-Terrorist Security
‘Team Co. in Norfolk, Va.

Dr. Craig M. Keanna

is currently a second-year resident
in pediatrics at the Children’s
Hospital at Yale-New Haven in
Connecticut.

W. Gary Tucker Jr.

earned an MBA and a BBA in
finance from the University of
Georgia. He works as a commercial
loan officer for Compass Bank in
Birmingham.

;
SI

John C.R. Catron

works as a coordinator for Walt

Disney Pictures and is pursuing a

degree in podiatry. He lives in

Hermosa Beach, Calif., where he

plays a lot of volleyball.

Shaun A. Crawford

is pursuing a master’s in hazardous
substances and works as an environ-
mental consultant in Birmingham,
where he lives with his wife,
Jennifer.

Charles C. Doumar
is clerking for the chief judge at the
U.S. tax court in Washington, D.C.

G. Manoli Loupassi

is an assistant commonwealth’s
attorney in the office of the Hon.
David M. Hicks in Richmond.

John D. Maxwell

is an attorney with Federal Express’
labor law department in Memphis,
‘Tenn. He clerked for Hon. Harry
W. Wellford °46 in the sixth circuit
of the U.S. Court of Appeals.

Arthur 8. (Sully) Renuart
earned a master’s degree in hospital-
ity management from Florida
International University in 1993. He
has since moved to the west side of
Cleveland and works as the director
of operations for a restaurant hold-
ing and management company.

OIL

Mark R. Boyes

has been promoted to senior associ-
ate general counsel with Liberty
Sports in Irving, Texas. He joined
the company in 1991 and was previ-
ously an associate with Winstead,
Sechrest & Minick in Houston.

‘90

Nancy H. Baughan

is an associate with the law firm of
Parker, Hudson, Rainer & Dobbs in
Atlanta.

Gary O. Giles

was recently promoted to captain in
the Marine Corps Reserve. He is
now living in Singapore and working
as project manager for a U.S.-based
electronics firm.

Edward J. Kelley

worked with a tenant advocacy
group for two years after earning his
master’s in legal ethics. He is now a
first-year law student at the
University of Denver.

W. Brett Mason

received a J.D. from Tulane
University Law School in May 1993
and a master of laws in admiralty
and maritime law last May. He prac-
tices with Woodley, Williams,

Fenet, Boudreau, Norman and
Brown in New Orleans.

Mary Alice McMorrow

received the G. Robert Strauss Jr.
Cup at the Darden School of
Business at the University of
Virginia. The award is given to a
student who exhibits compassion for
fellow students, innovative think-
ing, and solid marketing skills.

9]

Sarah C. Bolte
is a management analyst for HiTech
Inc. and lives in Kensington, Md.

Christopher J. Bray
teaches social studies at Redan High
School in Stone Mountain, Ga.

Sherri L. Brown
is in her second year of a master’s
program in divinity at Yale.

John A. Ebner

was one of 12 recipients of the
William Michael Shermet Award for
academic excellence, spirit, and ser-
vice at the University of Virginia’s
Darden School of Business.

Gregory J. Golden

is a second-year law student at the
University of Richmond School of
Law. He worked in Washington,
D.C., last summer for the Houston-
based law firm of Baker & Butts.

Gary H. Green Il

graduated cum /aude from Harvard
Law School last June and is working
in the litigation department of
Mitchell, Silberberg & Knupp in
Los Angeles.

Goodloe T. Lewis

graduated from the University of
Mississippi Law School and is cur-
rently practicing with Hickman,
Goza & Gore in Oxford, Miss.

Dianne K. Makosky

is president of the Northern New
Jersey alumni chapter. She lives in
Morris Plains, N.J., and works as a
programmer/analyst for APT
Computer Solutions, Inc.

Andrew R. Nixon

graduated from Yale Divinity School
last May and is pastoring at two
United Methodist churches in
Centerton and Decatur, Ark., where
he lives with his wife, Deborah.

Paige Powell

is now working as a senior accoun-
tant with Andersen Consulting in
Washington, D.C.

Robert D. Sale

graduated from Stetson Law School
and works with the Florida state
attorney’s office in the 14th Circuit.

Laura C. Taylor
recently graduated from Emory
University in Atlanta and is now

  

working for the Waynesboro News- |
Virginian as a reporter.

Frank B. Turner Jr.

passed the Georgia bar exam last
winter and is serving a one-year
judicial clerkship for Hon. William
Fleming, chief judge of the Ay
Judicial Circuit. He is studying for
the South Carolina bar exam in
February.

Ist Lt. Loretta L. Vandenberg
recently reported for duty with
Marine Detachment at the Naval
Education and Training Center in
Newport, R.I.

Anne T. Walsh

is a second-year student at the
University of Maryland, where she
is working on a master’s in English
and teaching freshman English 10].

GIL

Cary Powell Moseley :
has returned to his hometownof __
Charlotte, N.C., where he practices _
law with an emphasis on civil litiga-
tion and plays “as much tennis as ]
can.” Mosely married the former
Blair Roberts Holston last June.

John C. Johnson

has been elected to the board of |
governors for the Virginia State Bar —
Young Lawyers Conference for a
two-year term.

’ “a

92 +
W. Blair Allen Jr. 4
received his MBA from the Univer-
sity of Arkansas and is working as an _
analyst at Worthen National Bank of
Arkansas in Little Rock.

.

Karen L. Arch

completed an MFA at Tulane
University last spring. She isnow
working at the Museum of Modern
Art in New York City.

Robin M. Dru a
was promoted in September to clini-
cal research associate at Chiron
Vision in Irvine, Calif.

Greg Evans ;
is a third-year student at Cumber- —
land School of Law at Samford
University. He clerked for the firm

of Hare, Winn, Newell & Newton in
Birmingham last summer.

Jay C. Fertile

is a third-year medical student at the
University of Virginia. He plans to
take some of his fourth-year elec-
tives in a Spanish-speaking county.

Charles C. Flippen Il

finished his master’s in journalism at
the University of Maryland and 1s
now a reporter covering local gov-
ernment and state legislative elec-
tions for the Columbia Flier/H
County Times in Columbia, Md.

David Gordon
js pursuing a master’s in theology at
Notre Dame University.

Jonathan H. Harris

is a bank examiner with the Far
Eastern examinations division of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
He lives in Jersey City, N.J.

Gregory T. Hicks

graduated from the University of
lowa Business School last August
with an MBA in finance and indus-
trial relations. He now works with
3M in Minneapolis and St. Paul.

John Kannapell

placed 46 out of 600 swimmers and
second in his age group in the Great
Chesapeake Bay Swim in Washing-
ton, D.C., last summer. He is now
living in West Hatfield, Mass., and
working as a product manager of
toys and games in the marketing
department of Milton Bradley.

Clayton A. Kennington

lives in Dallas and works as deputy
regional director for Republican
Sen. Phil Gramm.

M. Shane Kimzey
is attending the University of Texas
School of Law.

Frank B. Martien

is currently attending the Darden
School of Business at the University
of Virginia.

Kelly A. McCabe

is production editor of journals for
the American Anthropological
Association in Arlington, Va.

Duncan L. Miller

works at the National Bank of
Commerce in Memphis, Tenn. He
bought a house this past summer.

93

Evan A. Allison
is a research associate for the Atlanta
chapter of the American Red Cross.

He plans to attend law school next
fall.

Frances E. Ascher
has returned to Oak Brook, IIL., after
a year living and working in Japan.

Jennifer L. Barrows

is in her second year at the Univer-
sity of Baltimore School of Law and
continues to live in the “slums of
Baltimore” with classmate Melissa
Naraval.

Kristen E. Brown
1S a second-year law student at
Louisiana State University.

Perrin T. DesPortes Jr.

1S regional manager for Sterile
Dental Systems Inc. covering South
Carolina, North Carolina, and
Virginia. He lives in Charlotte.

J. Heath Dixon

teaches and coaches debate at
Robert E. Lee High School in San
Antonio, Texas. He has completed
master’s work in communication
studies at Baylor University and
plans to attend graduate school in
economics.

Robert L. Ducklo
attends law school at the University
of Tennessee in Knoxville.

Kimberly L. Gladys

is training in a Buddhist-inspired
master’s program in dance/move-
ment therapy at the Naropa
Institute in Boulder, Colo.

Sarah Horn

is a graduate student in counseling
psychology at James Madison
University in Harrisonburg, Va.

Matthew V. Jennings

recently began a nine-month intern-
ship in the sports publicity office at
Dartmouth College.

John M. Layman
is a district sales leader with Frito-
Lay Inc. in Logan, W.Va.

Tara A. Maitra

left CNBC for an anchor/producer
position at C-TEC Cable Systems
Channel 8 News last June. She lives
in Neshanic Station, N.J.

Jeremy B. Milling

has moved back to Fairhope, Ala., to
work with AmSouth Bank after
spending five months in a training
program in Birmingham.

James M. Mobley
is a commercial real estate broker at
Carter & Associates in Atlanta.

Hal H. Newel/ Ill

lives in Socorro, N.M., and is pursu-
ing a master’s in geochemistry at
New Mexico Tech.

Evan D. Patterson
is a sales manager for Frito-Lay Inc.
in southwestern Virginia.

Talley D. Woolley

works on the MasterCard account at
the advertising agency Ammirati &
Puris in New York.

Dak

Maury A. Kroontje

is an associate attorney in the law
offices of John J. Kamrar in
Bellingham, Wash.

Dawn Alee Przirembel

is a law clerk for the Hon. H. Dean
Hall, judge of the 10th Judicial
Circuit in Anderson, S.C. She lives
in Greenville.

’
94

Timothy K. Adams Jr.

recently completed the Officer

Recommended Reading

Most people would agree that one of the building blocks of a civi-
lization is its written language. From there it’s no great leap to books,
libraries, and eventually, magazines. Now comes a magazine devoted
exclusively to exploring the resources of the nation’s most extensive
repository of written material—
the Library of Congress.

Civilization, as we know it, is
a bibliophile’s delight. Novem-
ber’s inaugural issue promised a
focus on “the life of the mind:
literature, history, culture, and
social issues.” And one of the
cornerstones of Civilization will
be its literary editor, Robert
Wilson ’73. Wilson comes to the
magazine with rock-solid cre-
dentials. An English major at
W&L, he cut his literary teeth
working with the late Jim
Boatwright on Shenandoah. After
a brief stint with a publisher in
New York City, he went to work
for the Newport News (Va.) Daily
Press, where he wrote his first
book review. From there he entered the graduate program in English
at the University of Virginia, where creative writing professor Peter
Taylor took him under his wing, continuing as Wilson’s friend and
mentor until his death in November.

After grad school, Wilson worked part time for 74e Washington Post,
“where I let them know that I was interested in literary things,” he
says from Civilization’s Pennsylvania Avenue office. He was also read-
ing manuscripts for Boatwright when he spied a new book by a then
little-known writer named Tim O’Brien. “I asked the people at Book
World |the Post’s Sunday book-review section] to give me a whirl with
the review.” His piece coincided with a front-page New York Times
Book Review article on O’Brien, and Wilson joined the Book World staff
full time. His career turned a page when he joined the then-fledgling
USA Today in 1983. “The editor at the time cared a lot about books,”
he says, and as the sole person doing books at the Nation’s Newspaper
for 11 years, Wilson reviewed writers on almost a daily basis.

His experience in the trenches of the Gannett daily prepared him
well for the only slightly more relaxed life at the new bi-monthly. ‘The
concept for a magazine had been kicking around the Library of
Congress for close to 15 years, he explains, and after approval by two
Congressional oversight committees, C7vi/ization was born, and Wilson
joined the staff in June. As an independent magazine published under
a licensing agreement with the Library of Congress, “We want to
bring the Library to the public’s attention, and provide them with
some sort of perspective to go along with it.” ‘The debut issue con-
tained features on Thomas Jefferson, German filmmaker Leni
Riefenstahl, and the Gunfight at the O.K. Corral—and for his part,
Wilson promises that Civi/ization’s book section will be bigger and
better than that of most general-interest magazines. “We want to be
very good with books; we want to be able to cast a wide net for writers
and have them do small, medium, and long reviews.” ‘The first issue
has a long essay on several books depicting the black middle class, a
long review of Harold Bloom’s 7he Western Canon, and shorter reviews
by such luminaries as Edward Hoagland and Reynolds Price.

Wilson, who lives in Manassas, Va., ultimately wants Civi/ization to
be known as a “welcome home for writers.” He takes his cue from
Boatwright’s work at Shenandoah: “Jim reveled in the literary life. He

published writers well.” —By William Cocke ’82

 

 

 

Wilson hopes Civilization wi//
be “serious, yet fun to read.”

49

Photo: New Jersey Newsphotos

Bittersweet Victory

Across the Hudson River from New York City, Jersey City, N.J., is
not exactly synonymous with chocolate in the same way as is a certain

town in southeastern Pennsylvania. And if the Van Leer Chocolate

 

 

Tad Van Leer ’77 and his 10-lb. baby: Life is like a box of chocolates.

Corp. is not exactly a household name, then maybe that’s because the
only way to buy their chocolate is in 10-lb. chunks.

‘The Van Leers, M. Theodore ’51 and Theodore J. ’77 (Ted and
Tad, respectively) make what may be the best chocolate you’ve never
heard of. At least the experts think so—they were recently named
tops in a taste test held in California, beating out competition from at
home and abroad. ‘The contest, sponsored by Cook’s [//ustrated, a mag-
azine for professional chefs, named Van Leer Bittersweet Chocolate
No. 1 in the “Highly Recommended” category. Judging the competi-
tion, held at Chez Panisse in Berkeley, Calif., were some of the
biggest names in gastronomy, including cookbook author Marion
Cunningham, and Alice Medrich, author of two popular books about
cooking with chocolate.

Kudos went to the Van Leers’ bittersweet for being “neither too
sweet nor too bitter, with strong espresso overtones.” It won in both
the plain and cooked taste tests (in which the entries were used in a
chocolate-almond torte with a chocolate glaze), making it the overall
favorite. ‘he reason the Van Leer name is not immediately recogniz-
able to the consumer is because they are primarily a supplier of high-
quality chocolate and related products to the ice cream and confec-
tionery trades. Founded by L.K. Van Leer on Christmas Day 1949,
the company is one of three family-owned chocolate factories in the
United States. ‘Today, with son Ted as president and CEO, grandson
‘T'ad as vice president of sales and marketing, Van Leer Chocolate has
gone from 28 employees in the late 1970s to 150 workers in a 150,000-
sq.-ft. computerized factory (another son, Peter, serves as vice presi-
dent of quality and technology).

“We consider ourselves a secret ingredient,” Tad told the Newark
Star-Ledger. “We're in a great many products that many people con-
sume all the time. We’re in dairy products in the freezer, as well as
many baked products on the shelf. We’re also a prime ingredient in
the very finest boxed chocolates that you can find.”

‘Ted Van Leer, who as a W&L trustee generally livens up meetings
with an ample supply of chocolate goodies, expressed pride in his
company’s recent honor. In the chocolate business, however, there’s

no time to rest on last year’s laurels. Asked what the busiest time of

**

the year for him was, he answers: “Easter. It’s all those chocolate bun-
nies. The solid ones, of course.” —By William Cocke ’82

50

Indoctrination School at the Naval
Education and Training Center in
Newport, R.I.

Matthew J. Appel

was commissioned ensign in the
Navy in October and is attending
nuclear power school in Orlando,
Fla.

Michelle L. Brien

works for The Danville (Va.) Register
@ Bee covering the police and court
circuits in Danville and Pittsylvania
County.

Stefanie Brown
is pursuing a master’s in English lit-
erature at Brown University.

Tara L. Burns

is attending the London School of
Economics and Political Science in a
graduate program in European stud-
ies.

Anthony J. Catalano IIl

is pursuing a master’s in architecture
at the University of Florida in
Gainesville.

Heather E. Edwards

is a first-year law student at Rutgers
University and was recently elected
as a representative to the Student
Bar Association.

Matthew C. Hansen
is employed by TBWA Advertising
in New York City.

Gretchen L. Hayman
works as an administrative assistant
with IBM in Austin, Texas.

Christian B. Keller

reports that “there is hope for histo-
ry majors.” He plans to attend the
University of Virginia for a master’s
in history next fall.

James F. Kull
is interning in Washington, D.C., for
Idaho Sen. Larry Craig.

Michael L. Lekness

and classmate Robb Ostrom both
work for Ford Motor Credit in Fort
Lauderdale, Fla. They report that
they “are glad to be away from the
cold rain and snow of Lexington.”

Philip G.J. McKoy

is pursuing a master’s in Caribbean
economic development at the
University of Denver.

M.C. Cottingham (Cottie) Miles
is a first-year law student at Texas
‘Tech in Lubbock.

Erin M. Nelson

translates, gives speeches, visits
schools, and coordinates internation-
al events and exchanges as a partici-
pant in the JET program in Yuku-
hashi City, Japan.

Matthew C. Newton
is an investment banking analyst
with Dean Witter Reynolds in New

7

York City. He lives with classmate
‘Tim Carr.

Robb S. Ostrom
See Michael L. Lekness ’94.

Gregory B. Patterson

is a reporter with the Sumter (S.C.)
Daily Item covering the city and
county government, police, courts,
and cotton festivals of Lee County,

Laura E. Voekel

lives in Arlington, Va., with class-
mate Marguerite Nielsen and works
as a communications legal assistant
with Dow, Lohnes & Albertson.

Marriages

Frederick deR. Strong ’35

to Lois Lillian Blaikie, on Sept. 3,
1994, in Beaufort, S.C. The couple
lives in Burton.

John E. Buttarazzi ’83

to Anne Greenwood Noble, on May
7, 1994, in Washington, D.C. Patrick
Buttarazzi ’84 was best man, and
groomsmen included Edward
Buttarazzi °85, Michael Buttarazzi
87, Robert Buttarazzi ’88, and Del
Agnew °82. Roger McDonough 84
delivered a reading, and the bride
was given away by her brother,
James E. Noble ’85. The couple
lives in New York City.

John A. Sanders Jr. 84
to Kathy Loflin, on Oct. 8, 1994.
The couple lives in Bethesda, Md.

Michael E. Singer ’84

to Ellen S. Kaplan, on Sept. 24,
1994, in New York. The groom is an
investment banker with James D.
Wolfensohn Inc. in New York.

Kevin McClatchy ’85

to Lisa Anne McFadden, on Oct. 3,
1993, in Columbus, Ohio. The wed-
ding party included Mike Cregan
*85 and Dikk Minnich ’84.

Virginia Greer ’85L
to Michael Dendy, on Sept. 27,
1994, in Atlanta.

Curtis T. Breithaupt 86

to Tracy Lynn Zoller, on May 21,
1994, in Boulder, Colo. Classmate
Nat May was an usher.

Dr. Joseph G. Whelan III 86
to Holli P. Hall, on May 28, 1994, on
Lady’s Island, S.C. ‘Twenty-two of
the groom’s Chi Psi fraternity broth-
ers were in attendance and among
the wedding party. Whelan is an
assistant professor on the OB-GYN
faculty at Emory University with
special interest in reproductive €n-
docrinology and infertility surgery-

John V. Lowe ’87
to Lauren E. Hesson, on Sept. 24,

 

C L A S$ S$ R E U N | O N_ S

May 11-13, 1995

HONORING THE UNDERGRADUATE AND LAW CLASSES
1945 1950 1955 1960 1965
1970 1975 1980 1985 1990

 

‘THURSDAY EVENING, May 11 BUFFET DINNER featuring the Johnny McClenon Big Band
REUNION KEYNOTE ADDRESS REUNION DANCE featuring Spectrum
SPEAKER: Roger Mudd ’50,
Visiting Professor of Journalism (Spring Term) SATURDAY, May 13
RECEPTION at the Alumni House ANNUAL JOINT MEETING of the Undergraduate
and Law Alumni Associations in Lee Chapel
FRIDAY, MAy 12 CLASS MEETINGS
REUNION SEMINARS PICNIC LUNCHEON
COCKTAILS WITH THE FACULTY CLASS BANQUETS AND PARTIES

REUNION CONCERT University Choral Ensembles

 

 

 

Wirt AM Sy . 1... Riot hat WN Beets BE ont BD RRS eee.

 

Armchairs and Rockers

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-
rubbed in black lacquer or dark pine stain. The five-color
crest of the University is painted on the back of each chair or
rocker. They are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture
and are welcome gifts for birthdays, graduation, Christmas,
anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair

 

 

goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham °14.
Order by phone or fax! Credit card orders may be placed by
calling (703) 463-8464 or by faxing this form to the W&L
Alumni Office at (703) 463-8473. Or mail your order to:
Washington and Lee Alumni Inc., Lexington, VA 24450.:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_] BOSTON ROCKER || ARMCHAIR ORDERED BY
Black lacquer Black lacquer with SHIP TO
or cherry arms or STREET ADDRESS
Dark pine $250 Dark pine $250 Crty/STATE/ZIP

DAYTIME PHONE
METHOD OF PAYMENT [) VISA C}]) MASTERCARD [}) CHECK

 

The Boston Rocker requires some assembly.
Make check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Prices CaRD NUMBER/EXPIRATION DATE
include freight charges. Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery. NAME AS IT APPEARS ON CARD

aoe

 

 

 

 

51

 

1994, in St. Michaels, Md. Members
of the wedding party included the
bride’s father, Grey Hesson ’69,
°74L, and Andrew Bouie ’89. The
couple lives in Ellicott City, Md.,
where the groom teaches Spanish
and English at Oakland Mills High
School. Lowe is also head wrestling
coach at Western Maryland College
in Westminster.

Townsend W. Devereux ’88

to Sheri Ann Bompey, on Oct. 1,
1994, in New York. The couple lives
in New York, where the groom is an
associate at the Bank of Nova
Scotia.

William S. (Sandy) Harrison
Jr. ’88 to Jacqueline Briscoe, on
Sept. 17, 1994, in Annapolis, Md.
Groomsmen included John Church
°87 and Edwin (Juker) Parkinson
87.

John C. McDonald Jr. ’88

to Andrea Rogers, on Sept. 4, 1993,
in Ticonderoga, N.Y. The wedding
party included classmates Lou
‘Traesh Jr. and Steve Hancock. The
couple lives in Boston, where
McDonald is pursuing a master’s in
history at Northeastern University.

Douglas J. Mullenix ’89

to Elizabeth O'Connell 90,

on July 23, 1994. The couple lives in
Brentwood, Mo.

Delos R. Clark °90

to Krisanna H. Gregory, on July 2,
1994. Classmate ‘Todd Peppers was
best man, and R. Scott Bell ’91 was
a groomsman. The couple lives in
Salem, Ore., where the groom works
for the law firm of Robert
Williamson and Associates.

Stacy L. Morrison °90

to Christopher C. Shannon, on Oct.
1, 1994, in Philadelphia. ‘The bride
is associate features editor for
Mirabella magazine in New York
City.

Scott D. Williams °90

to Sharon Poff, on May 21, 1994.
Eddie Klank ’89, Jeff Kelsey ’89,
and classmate Karl Hanson were
among the groomsmen. Williams is
an investment broker with Hilliard
Lyons in Memphis, ‘Tenn.

Paige E. Cason ’91 to

William D. Gottswals ’91,

on Nov. 5, 1994, in Greenville, S.C.
Classmate Paige Kilian Loper was
the matron of honor. ‘The wedding
party also included Clif Gottwals °87
and classmates Ann Gregory, Scott
Alrutz, Steve Erwin, Larkin Fowler,
and Doug McHugh. The couple
lives in McLean, Va., where the
groom is a commercial loan officer
for NationsBank in Bethesda, Md.,
and the bride works for the law firm
of Willkie Farr & Gallagher in
Washington, D.C.

Blair E. Simmons °91

to Daniel Gilchrist V, on Sept. 10,
1994, in Fairfax, Va. Members of the
wedding party included classmates
Mary Hampson and Tait North.
‘The couple lives in Memphis,
‘Tenn.

Sarah W. Conrad ’91 to
Christopher O. Smythe °90,

on Sept. 17, 1994, in Old Lyme,
Conn. The groom is an associate of
the law firm of Parker, Poe, Adams
& Bernstein in Charlotte.

Sharon A. Widmayer ’91

to Alan Thompson, on July 9, 1994,
in Old ‘Tappan, N.J. Classmates
Anne Walsh, Lisa Frantz, and
Louise Adamson ’92 were in the
wedding party. The couple lives in
Arlington, Va., where the bride
attends Georgetown University and
teaches English as a second lan-
guage for Fairfax County.

Jennifer E. Burns °92

to Dennis S. O’Leary, on Sept. 4,
1994, in Waverly, Pa. The wedding
party included classmates Ashley E.
Gray and Lisa M. Preston, and
Douglas A. Burns 95. The couple
recently moved to Jacksonville, Fla.,
where the bride is a senior accoun-
tant with Arthur Andersen & Co.

Mary Elizabeth Vallotton °92
to James D. Yarbrough, on May 21,
1994, in Augusta, Ga. The couple
lives in Anderson, S.C.

Births

William E. Brumback ’71

and his wife, Mary Crain Penniman,
a son, Joseph Archer Crain , on Feb.
27, 1994. The family lives in Acton,
Mass.

Mr. @ Mrs. Benjamin B. Swan
’78, a daughter, Katharine
Winthrop, on Oct. 4, 1994. The fam-
ily lives in Brunswick, Maine.

Mr. @ Mrs. John V.C. Saylor
°79, a daughter, Elizabeth Anne,
born Dec. 1, 1994. Saylor is a partner
with Andersen Consulting in Boston,
and the family lives on Beacon Hill.

Mr. @ Mrs. P. Craig Cornett
"80, a daughter, Sarah Margaret, on
Sept. 2, 1994. The family lives in
Sacramento, Calif.

Mr. @ Mrs. George D. Fagan
‘81, ason, George Connor, on June
3, 1994. The family lives in New
Orleans.

Mr. © Mrs. Kevin D. Humphries
‘81, ason, Tyler Andrew, on June
13, 1994. He joins two brothers,
Kendall Edward and Eric William.
The family lives in Charlottesville.

Mr. @ Mrs. Earle W. David
"82, ason, Evan Austin, on Aug.
10, 1994. He joins a sister, Lauren.
‘The family lives in Austin, Texas.

Mr. @ Mrs. Edmund P. Perry
"82, a daughter, Ann Catherine, on
Aug. 22, 1994. She joins a sister,
Elizabeth. Perry is corporate counsel
for Sonat Inc., a diversified energy
company in Birmingham.

Thomas E. Baker Jr. ’83,
"87L @ Laura Misner Baker
’87L, a daughter, Julia Katharine,
on Aug. 30, 1994. She joins a broth-
er, Charley. The family lives in
Corpus Christi, ‘Texas.

Mr. @ Mrs. David L. Cole Jr.
"83, a daughter, Madison
Boatwright, on Sept. 2, 1994. The
family lives in Towson, Md.

Mr. @ Mrs. David P. Phippen
’83L, a daughter, Sarah Hunt, on
Jan. 27, 1994. Phippen practices
labor and employment law as coun-
sel to Kilpatrick & Cody in Wash-
ington, D.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. James A. Skinner
III ’84, ason, James IV, on July
23, 1994. Skinner is senior North
American fund manager with
Mercury Asset Management and
lives in Surrey, England.

Major @ Mrs. Gordon R.
Hammock ’85L, ason, Gabriel
Fowlkes, on July 31, 1994.
Hammock is stationed on Hanscom
Air Force Base near Boston.

Mr. © Mrs. John M. Fritsche
°86, ason, John Jr., on Oct. 12,
1994. The family lives in Alexan-
dria, Va.

Peter J. Walsh Jr. ’86L @
Nei/li Mullen Walsh ’87L,

a daughter, Kerry Killeen, on Aug.
12, 1994. She joins a sister, Mara, 2.
The family lives in Hockestin, Del.

Mr. @ Mrs. Gary Philip Appel
"87, ason, Austin Philip, on Sept.
27, 1994. The family lives in Edge-
wood, Md.

Judith Ringland Outland ’87
and her husband, James, a son,
Matthew James, on Oct. 4, 1994.
The family lives in Herndon, Va.

Mr. @ Mrs. J. Bradley Preston
‘88, ason, Andrew Bradley, on
Oct. 11, 1994. The family lives in
Mauldin, S.C.

Mr. @ Mrs. Matthew J. Wise
°91, ason, Harrison Matthew, on
Oct. 29, 1994. The family lives in
Roanoke, where Wise is senior con-
troller of Southwestern Manage-
ment Inc.

in Memoriam

Virgil J. Trotter Jr. °18,
retired businessman, died Sept. 25,
1994, in Monticello, Ark. He was a
member of Kappa Alpha fraternity
at W&L. He served in the Army
during World War I. From 1927 to
1966, he was director of Commercial
Loan & Trust Co. in Monticello. He
was also a partner in the investment
firm V.J. Trotter & Sons.

Philip Liebman ’27L,

retired attorney and businessman,
died June 20, 1994, in Salisbury,
Md. Liebman attended W&L dur-
ing the 1923-24 academic year. He
was the youngest person admitted
to the Virginia bar at the time and
went on to practice law in Norfolk.

Robert B. Lee ’29,

retired banker, died Sept. 8, 1994, in
Greenville, S.C. He was Phi Beta
Kappa and a member of Lambda
Chi Alpha fraternity at W&L. In
1930, he joined the New York
National Guard and went on to
serve in the Quartermaster Corps
during World War II. He retired as a
lieutenant colonel in the Army
Reserve in 1952. Lee also worked
for 44 years at Bankers Trust
Company of New York, ending his
career as vice president in charge of
many of the bank’s principal
accounts in the Southeast.

J. Blanding Holman Jr. °30,
retired distributor and banker, died
Feb. 21, 1994, in Batesburg, S.C. He
was Phi Beta Kappa and a member
of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity at W&L.
He earned a B.S. from the
University of South Carolina in
1930. During World War II, he
served as a rationing executive in
South Carolina. From 1936 to 1966,
Holman worked as an agent for the
Sinclair Refining Co. He was also
vice president of the Batesburg
State Bank and owner of the
Holman and Cullum Insurance
Agency until retiring in 1969.

Leonard W. Jacobs °30,

retired furniture executive, died
Sept. 14, 1994, in Washington, D.C.
He was a member of Phi Epsilon Pi
fraternity and captain of the tennis,
track, and baseball teams at W&L.
In 1929, he went to work for the
Peerless Furniture Co., a family-
owned business of which he became
president. He purchased a furniture
retailer, Mayer & Co., in 1940 and
later formed W&J Sloane, serving as
president until his retirement in
1977. He was a member of the advi-
sory council of American University
and on the board of directors of the
National Bank of Rosslyn.

Harold E. Slanker ’30,
retired lumber company vice pres!-
dent, died Oct. 21, 1994, in Severna
Park, Md. With $80 from the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wé&L ALUMNI COLLEGE: CAMPUS...

“PRESERVING YOUR WEALTH: A PRIMER
ON FINANCIAL PLANNING” (June 25-July 1)

Our summer series opens with a blue-ribbon group of
W&L faculty and alumni who will focus on your financial
interests and questions.We’ll emphasize the practical aspects
of financial planning, with exercises and strategy sessions
that let you apply broad principles of financial management
to your own situation. Our alumni experts will discuss a vari-
ety of investment strategies, focusing on stock markets,
diversification, tax avoidance, and real estate. Other topics
include family wealth transactions, perspectives on world
economies, and philosophies of frugality. Bruce Herrick and
Ned Henneman lead our faculty team.

“JERUSALEM: THE STAR, THE CROSS,
AND THE CRESCENT” (July 2-8)

One of the most historically significant and beautiful
cities in the world, Jerusalem is considered sacred ground to
three great religions. For Jews, it is the legendary city of King
David; Christians locate Jesus’ crucifixion, burial, and resur-
rection here; and Muslim tradition associates it with
Muhammad’s ascent into heaven. This Alumni College will
focus on Jerusalem in tracing the birth and evolution of the
Judaic, Christian, and Islamic religions. We'll compare the
three faiths as we seek to understand the powerful events in
“the Holy Land” that have shaped both religious history and
the Middle East today. Professors Alexandra Brown and
Richard Marks will be joined by distinguished guest faculty,
including the escort from Jerusalem who will lead our tour of
Israel and Jordan in April 1996.

“ROME: FROM REPUBLIC TO EMPIRE” (July 9-15)

From the republic that Caesar embraced and then
ignored to the empire that his grand nephew Augustus inher-
ited and enlarged, the story of Rome from 59 B.C. to 14 A.D. is
among the most fascinating in all of Western political history.

This was the age of Virgil, Horace, Ovid, and Livy; architec-
ture and sculpture made poetry of stone. And the grandeur
that was Rome would find many expressions before its
inevitable decline. Guiding us through the age will be the
popular faculty team from “The Heroic Age of Greece,”
Taylor Sanders of W&L and Christopher B.R. Pelling from
University College, Oxford.

“BASEBALL AND AMERICAN CULTURE” (July 16-22)

Ken Burns’s recent PBS documentary has stirred vivid
recollections of our national pastime—memories of where and
how it’s been played and haunting images of its many heroes.
But beyond the myriad statistics of the game, baseball also
offers a rich reflection of our social and cultural values.
Americans not only play baseball, we need baseball. ‘This pro-
gram will examine what baseball says about us, even as we dis-
cuss the game itself, its colorful history, and the anguishing
implications of the current strike. W&L’s Barry Machado and
Mike Walsh will lead a team of distinguished baseball celebri-
ties and commentators, including Ken Burns himself.

_. AND ABROAD

“HOLLAND AND BELGIUM AT FULL FLOWER”
with Gordon Spice (April 27-May 8)
“Swiss ALUMNI COLLEGE”
with Ed Spencer (August 8-16)
“THE RISE OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE”
with Chris Pelling (August 30-September 10)
“IN THE WAKE OF LEWIS AND CLARK”
with Jim Warren (October 21-27)
“NEW ZEALAND’S GREAT OUTDOORS”
(February 10-23, 1996)

53

University, he founded and directed
W&L’s first marching band and
designed the band’s emblem. He
left W&L in 1929 to play trumpet in
several orchestras during the
Depression. He joined the J.F.
Johnson Lumber Co. in Annapolis,
Md., in 1931 and was company vice
president from the early 1950s until
his retirement in 1968.

Jack A. Williamson °30,

retired tax attorney, died Aug. 23,
1994, in Chicago. He was a member
of Kappa Sigma fraternity at W&L.
He graduated from Tulane Univer-
sity Law School in 1932 and worked
in a private law practice until 1937.
He then became a partner in the
firm Adams Williamson & ‘Turney.
During World War II, he served as
an officer in Navy intelligence. He
continued working for his firm in
1945, specializing in taxes, and
retired in 1992.

Earle L. Richmond ’31L,
retired attorney and FBI agent, died
Aug. 2, 1994. He practiced law in
Michigan until 1933. He then joined
the FBI as a special agent and held
various positions in New York,
Chicago, Buffalo, Detroit, Little
Rock, ‘Trenton, and Houston. He
was also administrative assistant to J.
Edgar Hoover in Washington, D.C.
From 1941 to 1972, he worked with
Reminton Arms, DuPont, General
Electric, Rockwell. He was also in
charge of security for the Manhattan
Project in Richland, Wash., a gov-
ernment-owned village, during
World War II.

Wilbur W. Mattox ’33,

retired sales manager and profes-
sional baseball player, died Oct. 6,
1994. He was a member of Kappa
Sigma fraternity and played baseball
at W&L. After graduating, he took a
job as general manager of the
Altavista (Va.) semi-pro baseball
team and went on to play catcher for
the Baltimore Orioles. Following his
baseball career, he moved to
Salisbury, Md., where he joined the
Navy. He served as an engineering
officer aboard an LST for 42
months. He later became a sales
manager for the Caterpillar Co., for
40 years, and lived in Skyland, N.C.,
at the time of his death.

Robert D. Bailey Jr. ’34L,
former attorney and businessman,
died Sept. 29, 1994, in Pineville,
W.Va. He was a member of Sigma
Nu fraternity at W&L. He was a
master sergeant in the Army and
served in the European theater dur-
ing World War II. An attorney for
nearly 60 years, he was a senior part-
ner in the law firm of Bailey,
Worrell, Viers & Browning. In 1965,
he was appointed secretary of state
of West Virginia and held that office
until 1968. Prior to that, he served as

Wyoming County’s prosecuting
attorney for several terms.

Donald R. Moore ’37,

retired judge, died Oct. 27, 1994, in
Washington, D.C. He was news edi-
tor of the Ring-tum Phi at W&L.
After graduating, he worked as a
reporter for the A/tavista (Va.)
Journal, Roanoke World-News, and
Cumberland (Md.) News. From 1942
to 1946, he was an intelligence and
administrative officer in the Army
Air Force and also served in the
Pacific with the 13th Air Force. In
1946, he joined the Federal Trade
Commission’s public relations
office. He earned his law degree
from Georgetown University in 1950
and continued working as a trial
attorney for the FTC. In 1961,
Moore was appointed administrative
law judge, hearing and deciding
cases in the field of federal trade
regulation until retiring in 1975.

Richard B. Easley ’40,

former sales executive and business-
man, died Oct. 15, 1994. He was a
member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraterni-
ty at W&L. After 40 years as a sales
executive with Procter & Gamble,
he left the company in 1980 and
purchased Morgan-Davis Co., a fire
protection firm in Clermont County,
Ohio. A history buff, Easley was a
member and past governor of the
Society of Colonial Wars in Ohio.

Stephen E. Hanasik 43,
retired lieutenant commander, died
June 10, 1994. He was a member of
Pi Kappa Phi fraternity and played
football at W&L. He fought in both
World War II and Korea and retired
after 17 years of service. Hanasik
was also retired from Booth
Refrigeration Supply Co. Inc.

Edwin A. Zelnicker Jr. °43,
retired insurance agent, died July
29, 1994, in Mobile, Ala. He was Phi
Beta Kappa and a member of Zeta
Beta Tau fraternity at W&L. A
member of the 8th Air Force during
World War II, he flew 30 missions as
a lead navigator in B-17 bombers
over Germany. Re-entering civilian
life in 1945, he moved to New York
and worked in the publishing and
rare book businesses. Returning to
Mobile in July 1955, Zelnicker
joined his father’s insurance agency.
He sold the agency in 1986.

Norvelle W. (Pete) Moses °44,
retired sales representative, died
Sept. 12, 1994, in San Antonio,
Texas. A native of Lexington, Va.,
he served in the Army Medical
Corps during World War II. He was
a career medical representative with
the A.H. Robins Co. in Richmond,
selling pharmaceuticals to doctors,
pharmacists, and wholesalers.

John H. Sorrells Jr. °45,
retired newspaperman, died Sept. 7,

1994, in Memphis, ‘Tenn. He was a
member of Phi Kappa Psi fraternity
at W&L. He served in the 82nd
Airborne Division during World War
II and completed 83 jumps by his
21st birthday. After the war, Sorrells
was active in the Army Reserve
before retiring in 1972 with the rank
of colonel. In 1948, he began his
newspaper career with the Knoxville
News-Sentinel and in 1955 became
national advertising salesman with
The Commercial Appeal in Memphis.
Sorrells was named promotions edi-
tor in 1964 and prepared questions
for the “Quiz ’em on the Air” TV
and radio show. He retired from the
paper in 1988.

Guy E. Yaste Jr. °45,

former auto dealer, died July 8,
1994, in Pensacola, Fla. He was a
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fra-
ternity at W&L. After graduating,
he joined the family’s car dealer-
ship, Guy E. Yaste Inc., in Pensa-
cola, and held various positions until
becoming vice president and part-
owner of the company. He later
became a full partner in the firm’s
successor, Mitchell Motors.

James T. Earle ’46,

attorney, died Aug. 27, 1994, in St.
Petersburg, Fla. He received his law
degree from Duke University and
joined the firm Lovelace, Earle and
Deal in St. Petersburg in 1948.
Working with several firms during
his long career, he specialized in
workers’ compensation Cases.

William M. Canby ’52,
attorney, died Sept. 4, 1994, on the
island of St. John in the Virgin
Islands. He was a member of Sigma
Nu fraternity at W&L. In 1958, he
graduated from the University of
Maryland Law School. He was an
associate Montgomery County attor-
ney and clerk to Maryland Court of
Appeals Chief Judge Stedman
Prescott until 1963, when he
became a partner in Miller Miller &
Canby in Rockville, Md. He retired
from the firm in 1991 and was of
counsel at the time of his death.

Lewis C. Markel Jr. ’54L,
attorney, died Jan. 18, 1994. He was
a member of Zeta Beta Tau fraterni-
ty at W&L and was on the Ring-tum
Phi staff. He worked as secretary
and counsel to Markel Service Inc.,
a general insurance agency.

Richard C. Belden ’57,

retired business executive, died Oct.
20, 1994. He was a member of
Sigma Chi fraternity at W&L. After
working for many years in technical
sales, marketing, product manage-
ment, and manufacturing, he helped
start Dymax Corp., a technical adhe-
sives manufacturer in Torrington,
Conn., in 1980. He retired as vice
president of that firm and moved to
central Florida in 1993.

—

John M. Abbitt Jr. ’59L,
former attorney and banker, died
Sept. 12, 1994, in Norfolk, Va. He
earned his B.A. from VMI in 1954
and was a member of Kappa Alpha
fraternity. He was a member of Phj
Alpha Delta legal fraternity at
W&L. After nine years practicing
law, Abbitt joined United Virginia
Bank/Seaboard National as a trust
officer in 1968. He was vice presi-
dent and trust officer of Nations-
Bank at the time of his death.

John J. (Jack) Trenam Jr, °62,
writer, died Aug. 30, 1994, while
vacationing in ‘Tobermory, Ontario.
He was a member of Sigma Nu fra-
ternity at W&L. During the Cuban
missile crisis, he served on an air-
craft carrier in the Navy. He spent
most of his career as a freelance
business writer, specializing in
brochures, speeches, and incentive
campaigns for marketing and pro-
motions. He had been living in
Royal Oak, Mich., since 1982.

The Rev. Matthew T. Douglass
63, retired Presbyterian minister,
died Feb. 6, 1993, in Virginia Beach.
He was a member of the Conser-
vative Society and Pi Kappa Phi fra-
ternity at W&L. After graduating,
he earned a B.D. in 1967 from the
Union Theological Seminary in
Richmond. Douglass later served as
a Presbyterian minister in Seattle
and Virginia Beach.

John F. (Jay) Ganong Jr. 64,
sales and marketing manager, died
Oct. 31, 1994, in the crash of
American Eagle flight 4184 near
Gary, Ind. He was a member of Beta
Theta Pi fraternity at W&L. For the
past six years, he lived in Orange
County, Calif., and was national
sales manager for Western
Graphtec, an Irvine-based distribu-
tor of graphics equipment.

Peter G. Reynolds Jr. °64,
administrator, died Sept. 3, 1994.
He was a member of Delta Upsilon
fraternity at W&L. After graduation,
he was a buyer for Strawbridge and
Clothier in Philadelphia. In 1968, he
joined the Drexel Institute of Tech-
nology as industrial coordinator of
the cooperative education program.
Reynolds was an administrator of
the Philadelphia law firm Berger &
Montague at the time of his death.

W. Mayo Lee Jr. ’68
died Oct. 31, 1994, in Washington,
D.C,

Lee Bivins Il ’69,

businessman, died Oct. 19, 1994, in
Amarillo, Texas. He was a member
of Kappa Sigma fraternity at W&L.
He received a law degree and a mas-
ter’s in business administration from
the University of Texas. From 1976
to 1982, he worked on Rep. Jack
Hightower’s staff in Washington,

D.C. Since 1982, Bivins helped
operate a family ranch and oil and
gas interests.

George P. Page Il ’70,
businessman, died June 23, 1994.
He was a member of Phi Kappa
Sigma fraternity at W&L. After
graduating, he worked as an adver-
tising representative for Look maga-
zine in New York and later became
an account executive with the
Bloom Agency in Dallas. Since

1976, he was executive vice presi-
dent of Dillon-Gage Inc. He also co-
founded Helps International, a
Christian relief organization working
with the poor of Guatemala.

John B. Thompson ’72
died Feb. 9, 1994, in Ft. Lauder-
dale, Fla.

Dr. John H. Margolis ’73,
neurosurgeon, died Aug. 26, 1994, in
Kettering, Ohio. He was a member
of Zeta Beta Tau at W&L. He
received his M.D. from the Medical
University of South Carolina in
1977. Margolis was a private practice
neurosurgeon, chairman of the
department of neurosurgery at
Miami Valley Hospital, and on the
staff at St. Elizabeth, Kettering,
Sycamore, and Good Samaritan
Hospitals. He was also assistant clin-
ical professor of surgery at Wright
State University in Dayton, Ohio.

Paul E. Pysell ’74L,

attorney, died Oct. 19, 1994, in
Staunton, Va. He served during the
Tet Offensive in Vietnam and was
awarded three Army Achievement
Medals, two National Defense
Service Medals, and the Meritorious
Service Medal. In the Army
Reserves, he was promoted to the
rank of lieutenant colonel in 1991
and was deputy staff judge advocate
general in the Virginia National
Guard. While maintaining a private
law practice, Pysell became assistant
commonwealth’s attorney in
Staunton in 1987 and worked in that
capacity until his death.

Brett R. Burkhart ’76,
architect, died Sept. 23, 1994, in
Norfolk, Va. He received his M.A.
in architecture from the University
of Virginia in 1981 and worked for
the Chapman Co. and the firm of
Spigel, Carter, Zink! & Herman. In
1988, he established the Burkhart-
Thomas Architecture Interior
Design firm. His work on Elliot’s
Restaurant, Loews Shops, and the
Metropol Market earned him three
awards of merit from the Norfolk
Design Review Committee. He also
designed and renovated many resi-
dences and commercial buildings in
the ‘Tidewater area.

Patrick S. Shiel ’86L,
attorney, died Sept. 29, 1994. He

was practicing law with Cranwell,
Flora & Moore in Roanoke.

Christopher E. Walburgh 89,
professional climbing instructor,
died June 10, 1994, while mountain-
climbing on Mount Hunter in
Denali National Park, Alaska. He
was a member of Kappa Alpha fra-
ternity at W&L. After graduating,
he taught rock climbing and moun-
taineering with the National
Outdoor Leadership School based in
Lander, Wyo.

 

Faculty

J. Timothy Philipps,

professor of tax law at Washington
and Lee since 1980, died Nov. 27,
1994, in Lexington. He was 54. A
native of Wheeling, W.Va., Philipps
received his B.S. from Wheeling
College in 1962, J.D. from
Georgetown University Law Center
in 1965, and LL.M. the following
year from Harvard Law School. At
Harvard, he was a Ford Foundation
Fellow. Prior to coming to W&L,
Philipps taught at Loyola Law
School (1977-80) and West Virginia
University College of Law (1966-
76). He was a visiting professor at
Duke University in 1976. Philipps
taught courses in individual income
taxation, business taxation, and tax
policy. He lectured frequently on
tax policy and was the author of
numerous articles on the subject. In
1993, he spent his sabbatical leave
as a law clerk to U.S. District Judge
Frederick Stamp Jr. in Wheeling.
He also served as a member of the
American Bar Association section of
taxation’s committees on attorneys
in small firms and problems of low-
income taxpayers. Memorial dona-
tions can be made to the J. Timothy
Philipps Scholarship Fund (c/o
Washington and Lee School of Law,
Lexington, VA 24450) or the Rock-
bridge Area Hospice (146 S. Main
St., Lexington, VA 24450).

 

 

 

William Pusey: 1910-1994

William Webb Pusey III, S. Blount Mason Jr. professor of German
emeritus and dean emeritus at Washington and Lee, died Nov. 25,
1994, at the University of Virginia Hospital in Charlottesville. He was
84. Pusey served as professor, dean, and acting president in his 42
years at W&L. He joined the faculty in 1939 as an associate professor
of German and was made full professor in 1947. He served as dean of
the college from 1960 to 1971, and was acting president of the
University from the time Fred C. Cole resigned in 1967 until his suc-
cessor, Robert E.R. Huntley, assumed office Feb. 5, 1968. While act-
ing president, he continued to serve in the dual capacity of dean and
chairman of the German department. From 1971 until his retirement
in 1981, he returned to his first love: teaching.

During his 11 years as dean, Pusey directed a series of changes that
had a profound effect on Washington and Lee. Faculty salaries were
doubled. Research opportunities for both students and faculty were
expanded. The Robert E. Lee Research Program was established and
has since allowed hundreds of undergraduates to engage advanced
research normally undertaken only on the graduate level. ‘he entire
University curriculum was reorganized; the academic calendar cur-
rently in use was adopted; the number of courses in arts and sciences
was nearly doubled; a program for honor students was developed; and
the faculty advisor system was reworked.

A 1932 graduate of Haverford College, Pusey received his A.M.
degree from Harvard University in 1933 and his Ph.D from Columbia
University in 1939. During World War II, he served 39 months in the
Naval Reserve, reaching the rank of lieutenant commander. He was
cited for his work as an interpreter in interrogating the German Naval
Command at the end of the war.

Pusey also taught Russian language and comparative literature and
was responsible for developing W&L’s East Asian Studies program in
the late 1970s. A noted scholar, his major field of study was German
impressionism, particularly the writing of Eduard von Keyserling. His
doctoral thesis, Louis-Sebastien Mercier in Germany: His Vogue and
Influence in the Eighteenth Century, was published by Columbia
University Press in 1939, and in 1943 he co-authored Readings in
Military German. He wrote numerous reviews and articles in scholarly
journals, and was also the author of a comparative historical examina-
tion and critique of Washington and Lee’s curriculum from 1850 to
1880, and a study of the Ann Smith Academy, an all-female school in
Lexington during the 1880s.

An avid baseball fan, Pusey once served on the board of directors
of the Lynchburg Mets, a Class A farm club of the New York Mets.
He won two Ring-tum Phi awards in 1968 and 1971 and was a member
of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. In 1981, the student
body established the William Webb Pusey III Award, which is still
given annually to a member of the faculty or administration for out-
standing service to the University. Bill Pusey was the first recipient.

55

Shooting the Big Blackfoot

Murphy Baits Preservation Efforts with His Video Debut

Col. Paul Murphy °49, an avid fly
fisherman, has a whopper of a tale to
tell. However, there is nothing at all
fishy about his story of the Big Blackfoot
River in Montana—and that, according
to Murphy, is where the problem lies.

Ironically, in the river made famous
by author Norman Maclean’s ode to fly
fishing and family relationships, A River
Runs Through It, the trout are disappear-
ing. In fact, Robert Redford filmed his
1991 movie on another river altogether
since the deforested Blackfoot bore such

IRE

TTT - Thr
LTT

et

j -

TT? ATT

nt? uuusid tm : - :
eT) Gerry pe
es
" . -
- re ~
cs

little resemblance to the stream de-
scribed in Maclean’s book. Decades of
overfishing and deleterious logging,
mining, and grazing practices have left
the Blackfoot and its tributaries in sad
shape. A fisherman travelling upstream
can now count on fish populations drop-
ping by 70 percent, with the native
species, the west slope cutthroat and
bull trout, especially hard hit.
Distressed by the decline of this
once-great fishery, Murphy wanted to
do something to help. By early 1992, in
the wake of publicity generated by the
movie, a fund-raising effort to restore
the river had been mounted by the Big
Blackfoot chapter of Trout Unlimited;
Orvis, a Vermont-based mail-order

56

sporting goods company; and the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation.
After Murphy’s own T.U. chapter in
Northern Virginia made a donation to
support the campaign, he made a trip to
Montana that summer to see the river
for himself. It was after shooting some
footage of the Blackfoot that he hit upon
the idea of making a video to spotlight
the efforts of the Big Blackfoot chapter
to restore the river to its former glory.
Meeting with Big Blackfoot chapter
president Jack Thomas in Helena,

> kl

- 3° ms
é&3 ine, - So Be S.
. Ye REZ ai
ew "~. = :

~ ‘
o ~

Es o 2 vit onda auch a
 people'on a ‘nationaPlevel,: arphy-

 

Murphy made plans to return to the
Blackfoot the following summer to shoot
the video. For his on-camera talent, he
enlisted chapter members with exper-
tise or a special connection to the river,
including Norman Maclean’s son John, a
writer for The Chicago Tribune, who
agreed to do the prologue, as well as a
fisheries biologist from the Montana
Department of Fish, Wildlife, and Parks.

As the project began to come togeth-
er, there was one catch: “I’d never made
a movie before in my life,” Murphy
admits. “But after I got home, I sat
down to write the script to give it a
structure. You need to put the people in
the right places and give them some-
thing to say. Even though I knew they

all could speak straight from the heagr
on this subject, and the idea was to
make it look like they were doing that,
we still needed some organization like
talking points and time limits.”

So Murphy gave himself a crash
course in movie-making techniques—
setting up daily shooting schedules, fig-
uring out light and sound requirements,
and learning continuity (“You have to
make sure everyone’s hats and shirts
match up from scene to scene,” he
explains). He experienced moviemaking
firsthand when he happened to be at
W&L at the same time as the crew for
Assault at West Point, directed by Harry
Moses °58. “They let me hang around
the set,” he recalls. “It was a real help.”

Once in Montana, Murphy assem-
bled his principals, including his wife,
Donna, and set out for the Blackfoot.
The shooting took about four and a half
days, averaging three or four takes for
each scene. “Even though there was a
lot of standing around and waiting,
everyone was very cooperative and
patient,” he recalls. Once home, the dif-
ficult part still remained. “We came
back with two-and-a-half hours of
footage which we edited down to 56
minutes,” Murphy says. An additional
10 minutes was cut upon recommenda-
tion by members of the Big Blackfoot
chapter, and the video was completed
around the first of this year. Murphy
copyrighted Restoring the Big Blackfoot,
Western Montana, 1993 and sent copies to
Trout Unlimited’s national office and
the president of Orvis for distribution.

While the Montana chapter has prin-
cipal use of the video, other T.U. chap-
ters are using it to raise money for the
project. Murphy is happy with the fin-
ished product and proud of the fact that
it is not a slick production with actors or
music—simply people presenting the
facts with the river as backdrop. He also
reminds a listener that there are no fish-
ing scenes in a video with fishing at its
heart—another aspect of which he is
proud. “This is a story that needs to be
told,” he says. And all those who, in the
words of Norman Maclean, are “haunt-
ed by waters,” should be thankful for

this particular fish tale.
—By William Cocke "82

-

-
a

ee Erica Reinecke ie

ea 27 ATC ae Veron

yy a CoE aae MARL AAR ae ne on
@ Ti n’s "SOCCEr ae a Ray Td ke 2s

van om gna P Slade VAT aaa

aan a Bry Py oee nts vs
eee ‘ayia base Te

3

Photo: W. Patrick Hinely ‘73

 

