OLD GEORGE

 

2
=
S
=
RO
=

 

 

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI
Lh

 

ee 4 -— oe _-_ \

 

 

 

 

FROM THE ALUMNI PRESIDENT

 

 

 

 

Dear Alumni,

I have been privileged to
serve as President of the W&L

 

Alumni Association during the
past year and would like to take
this opportunity to share with

 

you some final observations re-
garding the state of the alumni
programs.

In my three previous messages to you, I pointed
out that the state of the alumni programs had never
been stronger. I am proud to say that is still the case.
Over the last year both our alumni chapter pro-
grams and on-campus programs have shown an
increase in participation and frequency of events,
reflecting the overall vibrancy and vitality of our
organization. Alumni chapter activities increased
from 198 total events and chapter newsletters in
1990-91 to over 240 total events and newsletters for
1991-92. Significant increases include 43 student
recruitment-oriented receptions in 1991-92 com-
pared to 30 in the previous year, reflecting a height-
ened awareness of W&L in our communities and a
willingness, indeed an eagerness, on the part of our
alumni to recruit well-qualified young men and
women for our University.

But beyond the statistical evidence, I have the
very strong belief that the W&L community has
drawn closer together in recent years. I have seen
evidence of this in such programs as our spring
alumni reunion weekend, the Chapter Seminars,
the summer Alumni Colleges, and other programs.
I have been told by alumni how much they enjoy
returning to campus, and I have seen those emo-
tions shared between alumni and the University’s

faculty and staff. Justas participation in these programs
has grown over the years, so too have the feelings of
community and camaraderie that our alumni have
shown toward themselves and toward W&L.

While I have witnessed a growing sense of ob-
ligation and commitment to the University among
our alumni, we should not let ourselves become
complacent to the point of believing that we have
done enough. ‘There are indications that we are not
doing all that can be done. For example, only 37
percent of our alumni body contributes to the Annual
Fund each year. We simply must do better. Our
“On the Shoulders of Giants” capital campaign
now exceeds $60 million in gifts and pledges to-
ward the goal of $127 million, but we have a long
way to go yet. I believe that the greater Washing-
ton and Lee family willcontinue to pull together to see
to it that we reach our goal. Indeed, we must if we
are to ensure W&L’s future into the 21st century.

Finally, | am pleased to inform you that the
strong W&L tradition of leadership and service will
be fully evident in next year’s Alumni Board, espe-
cially in its new officers. The president for 1992-93
will be Waller T. Dudley, ’74, ’*79L, while Charles
T. McCord, *63, will serve as vice president. Both
individuals have fine records of service to W&L,
and I am confident that under their leadership, the
W&L Alumni Association will aspire to new and
meaningful goals in support of our alma mater.

It has been an honor to serve Washington and
Lee as president of the Alumni Association. I urge
each and every member of the alumni body to find
ways to contribute to the well-being of Washing-

ton and Lee.
Sincerely,
J. Richard O’Connell, ’56
President, W&L Alumni Association

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tue WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

a

BRIAN D. SHAW, Executive Editor

MIKE STACHURA, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

DENISE KUHN, Designer

Parrick HINELY, Photographer

Curis BARADEL, Class Notes Editor
BRIAN Locus, Sports Editor

WittiaM Cocke IV, Contributing Editor

Evan ATKINS, Contributing Editor

Published four times a year in April, July,
October, and December by Washington and Lee
Untversity, Lexington, Virginia 24450. All
communications and POD Forms 3579 should
be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lecington, Va. 24450,(703)463-8464. Third-
class postage paid at Lynchburg, Va. 24502.
Signed articles reflect the views of their authors
and not necessarily those of the editorial staff or
the University.

| ype for this magazine was set using equipment

provided through the generosity of Mary Moody
Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

 

CONTENTS

VOLUME 67, NUMBER 2, SUMMER 1992

FEATURES

10

1S

18

37

38

40)

GAZETTE

22
26
32
34

Letters

An Ugly, Rainy, Beautiful, Great Day

Undergraduate Commencement got rained on, but spirits weren’t dampened in the least as the
University celebrated the compelling legacy of the Class of 1992.

‘No Ordinary Moments’

Seven W&L seniors reflect on the Washington and Lee experience—what it’s been like these last four
years and what it’s meant to them.

A Fitting Tribute
Lewis F. Powell Jr., ’29, '31L, was celebrated in an understated yet powerful way at the April
symposium and dedication ceremony for the Powell Archives at Lewis Hall.

Remember When: The Day of the Armadillo

Ten years ago, WL made a little piece of lacrosse history thanks to a curious beast known as the
Armadillo.

Campaign Update

A progress report for On the Shoulders of Giants.

Five Guys Named Moe...and one named Larry

Larry Wynn, ’34, has been at the right place at the right time almost all his life; that’s what got him
to W@L back in 1933, and that’s what’s got him on Broadway now.

The Generals’ Report

ESPN has a thing called “Championship Week” in early March; W@L’s spring sports teams have
something similar in late April.

CLASS NOTES

Class Notes
Marriages
Births

In Memoriam

Reunion Weekend +4
Hallof Fame 52
Law News 52
Alumni News 53

On the cover:
Basking in the afterglow of rockets’ red glare (otherwise known as fireworks from
Reunion Weekend), Old George stands tall once again atop Washington Hall. The
new Old George is a bronze cast (painted white) made from the original that was
painstakingly restored by Branko Medenica. The restoration was funded through gifts
from the Class of 1940.

Correction: The cover photo in the Spring magazine was taken by Scott
Ferrell, 87. The Alumni Magazine regrets this omission.

 

 

WASHINGTON AND Lee UNIVERSITY

A. Stevens Miles Jr., °51, Rector
John D. Wilson, President

COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY
BoaRD

John Cleghorn, '84; David M. Clinger, '55; Robert S.

Keefe, 68; David Lotts, '74; Andrew H. McCutcheon, '48;

Robert Mottley, '64; Elizabeth Obenshain; Frank A.
Parsons, °54; Matthew W. Paxton, '49; Cecily Tynan, "91;
Sarah K. Wiant, °78L

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Officers

Waller T. Dudley, °74, °79L

President (Alexandria, Va.)

Charles T. McCord III, 63

Vice President (Houston, Texas)

James D. Farrar Jr., °74

Secretary and Director of Alumni Program
(Lexington, Va.)

Robert W. H. Mish III, °76,

Assistant Secretary (Lexington, Va.)

Directors

Benjamin L. Bailey, "75 (Charleston, W.Va.)

R.K. Barton III, '63 (Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.)
T. Talbot Bond, °51 (Baltimore, Md.)

E. Neal Cory II, °77 (Louisville, Ky.)

William M. Bowen, °61 (Hilton Head Island, S.C.)
J. Michael Jenkins III, 64 (Montgomery, Ala.)
Robert S. Keefe, '68 (New York, N.Y.)

Michael G. Morgan, "68 (Stamford, Conn.)
Mason T. New, °62 (Richmond, Va.)

Henry (Skip) Nottberg III, '71 (Kansas City, Mo.)
William J. Russell Jr., °57 (Malvern, Pa.)
Alexa A. Salzman, °89 (San Francisco, Calif.)

J. Frank Surface Jr., 60 (Jacksonville, Fla.)

J. E. Jet) Taylor III, '84 (San Diego, Calif.)
Michael T. Thornton, °70, '78L (Adanta, Ga.)
H. William Walker Jr., °68, °71L (Miami, Fla.)
Donald W. Weir Jr., °72 (Birmingham, Ala.)
Robert K. Wittpenn, '82 (West Caldwell, NJ.)

Law SCHOOL ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

Officers

Walter D. Kelley Jr., '77, '81L
President (Norfolk, Va.)
Charles B. Tomm, '68, '75L
Vice President (Flat Rock, N.C.)

Law Council

Robert L. Banse, '53L (Rahway, NJ.)

Charles M. Berger, ’68L (Charlotte, N.C.)

Alfred J.T. Byrne, '65, °68L (Washington, D.C.)
Robert M. Couch, °78, '82L (Birmingham, Ala.)
William R. Goodell, '80L (Ad/anta, Ga.)

Leonard C. Greenebaum, °56, ’S8L (Washington, D.C.)
Theodore D. Grosser, °77L (Cincinnati, Ohio)
Robin P. Hartmann, '71L (Dadlas, Texas)

Milton T. Herndon, "56L (Char/eston, W.Va.)
James W. Jennings Jr., °72L (Roanoke, Va.)
Thomas N. McJunkin, '70, °74L (Charleston, W.Va.)
Thomas M. Millhiser, '81L (Richmond, Va.)

Dana C. Petersen, '82L (Baltimore, Md.)

W. Bryce Rea Jr., '41L (Washington, D.C.)

David D. Redmond, '66, '69L (Richmond, Va.)
James C. Treadway Jr., '67L (New York, N.Y.)

S. Maynard Turk, 'S2L (Wi/mington, Del.)
Elizabeth Turley, "80L (Chicago, I//.)
Patricia A. Van Allan, '80L (Houston, Texas)
Thomas K. Wotring, '75L (Washington, D.C.)

 

 

2 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

LET Tees

What about the women?

EDITOR:

I certainly applaud the efforts of the
administration and the University com-
munity for their dedication to the frater-
nity renaissance project (“A Change From
Within,” Winter 1991); it has been very
encouraging to read about both the physi-
cal and mental rebuilding of Washington
and Lee’s well-established fraternity sys-
tem. The University’s commitment to its
student body is evidenced by this great
undertaking. Such an important part of
the tradition of Washington and Lee de-
serves the attention, time and money
which have been given to this program.

However, I am troubled by the lack
of attention given to the developing
women’s fraternities at Washington and
Lee by the administration and the alumni
magazine. As a charter member of the
Zeta lota chapter of the Kappa Alpha
Theta, I am always looking for news of the
growth of the chapter and the successful
integration of the women’s fraternities
into the existing Greek system.

I am aware that an overwhelming
majority of Washington and Leealumniis
male and have a great interest in the
renewal and growth of the established
fraternity system. Nevertheless, with the
advent of coeducation, female alumni will
comprise an ever-increasing portion of
the alumni population, and it is to these
alumni that Washington and Lee should
now turn, address, and recognize.

Particularly, there is the problem of
“coming home.” Despite the wonderful
memories and friends that female alumni
may have at the fraternities at W&L, they
are still without a lodge or house to call
their own and return to for Reunion or
Homecoming Weekends. Although I rec-
ognize that this is primarily due to the
individual chapter’s decisions and the re-
cent colonization of women’s fraternities
at Washington and Lee, I feel it is time for
the administration and alumni of W&L to
address this issue and recognize the grow-

ing importance of the female Greek sty-
dents. Hopefully, female Greek students
and alumni will become as important to
the future tradition of Washington and
Lee as the male Greek students and
alumni have been in the past.

Rebecca Brandt, ’90
Haddonfield, N.J.

+
Not much Glee

EDITOR:

A tradition died at Washington and
Lee this spring, and we fear that its pass-
ing is final and irrevocable. ‘Therefore, we
are writing to give the Washington and
Lee Men’s Glee Club a proper obituary.

It is necessary to start off by noting
our admiration for, and our loyalty to, Dr.
Gordon Spice, head of the music depart-
ment. We do not intend our remarks to be
an attack that calls into question his pro-
fessional capabilities or his personal at-
tributes; we consider him a good friend
and an outstanding instructor. However,
we do strongly disagree with his decision
to disband the Glee Club. We understand
that this year’s Glee Club perhaps, at
times, did not produce the same quality of
music that has become the group’s trade-
mark. Neither of us wants to see the Glee
Club become a mediocre group, but we
are disturbed by what we perceive as nary
a struggle to preserve what was, only two
years ago, a vibrant and talented singing
group. Maybe the group needed a bit of
surgery, but it didn’t need to be killed.

The first explanation for the disband-
ing of the Glee Club is that the music
department didn’t have the necessary re-
sources to adequately support its myriad
singing groups. If this is true, then we
think that some of the blame should be
directed toward Washington Hall. This
grave error might have been avoided with
the hiring of, at the very least, a part-time
musical instructor. A case in point: during
the 1989-90 school year, Dr. Spice was

 

 

 

doing his best impersonation of Super-
man. Besides fulfilling his duties as head
ofthe music department, he was conduct-
ing both the Glee Club and the Univer-
sity Chorus, advising the musical group
Southern Comfort, and keeping a watch-
ful eye on the development of the
Women’s Chorus. The department’s re-
sources were quite strained.

However, if the current budgetary
reality is that the music department
couldn’tadequately supportall its singing
groups, then the Glee Club should have
been the last group put before the firing
squad. After decades of producing good
music and representing Washington and
Lee as it toured the East Coast, we think
the Glee Club deserved special consider-
ation. Was the solution the cancellation of
the Glee Club, the oldest singing group
on campus and the creation of another
mixed singing ensemble? Couldn’t the
Glee Club and the University Chorus be
the two main groups on campus?

The second explanation for the de-
mise of the Glee Club ts that they were no
longer getting students who were inter-
ested in singing in an all-male group. If
this is true, then we note that this does not
reflect any personal agenda by Dr. Spice.
He is passionate about the sound of an all-
male group, and he enjoyed his time with
the Glee Club. However, we do think the
demise of the Glee Club can be attributed
to the decision to make the University
Chorus the premiere singing group on
campus. A decision was made that the
University Chorus would become the
touring chorus at Washington and Lee,
and that it would represent our school
abroad and in its own series of concerts.

‘Therefore, an effort was made to
attract the best talent to this group. ‘The
Glee Club became the odd man out, and
we believe that the available male singers
received the impression that the Glee
Club was no longera unique organization
that represented our University.

Some have suggested that the deci-
sion to emphasize a mixed singing group,

LETTERS

which directly contributed to the death of
the Glee Club, was a function of coeduca-
tion. We disagree. We are both avid sup-
porters of coeducation at Washington and
Lee, but we do think some traditions of
the “old” Washington and Lee have a
rightful place in University life. The Glee
Club was one of those traditions. Coedu-
cation didn’t bring about the destruction
of fraternities, but instead the University
made a concerted effort to save them via
Fraternity Renaissance. If our University
could spend millions and millions of dol-
lars to preserve one unique aspect of the
“old” Washington and Lee, then couldn’t
the administration have allotted funds for
an additional faculty member in the music
department? And couldn’t Washington
and Lee have allowed the Glee Club its
earned and deserved spot as a representa-
tive for our school? Not only was the group
a wonderful ambassador to other schools
via our touring, but countless lifelong
friendships were spawned during prac-
tices, tours, and joint concerts with other
schools.

The Glee Club is gone. We fear that
no amount of alumni outrage and protest
will result in a Lazarus-like miracle.
Therefore, in closing, we urge the music
department to cease their alumni Glee
Club concerts. During our four years at
Washington and Lee, we were involved in
those concerts and enjoyed them im-
mensely. However, we feel that thealumni
concerts served primarily to link the past
members of the Glee Club with the cur-
rent Glee Club that was alive and well.
Since the students and faculty at Wash-
ington and Lee have decided that the
Glee Club no longer has a place at our
institution, then let the group rest in peace.
If this year the alumni Glee Club does
perform, then please bill it as the final
concert of the organization. ‘The group at
least deserves a proper and public funeral.

R. Scott Bell, °91
Todd C. Peppers, *90
Charlottesville, Va.

EDITOR:

I read with interest the opinion of
Messrs. Peppers and Bell (NOTE: Their
letter also appeared in The Ring-tum Phim
May.] concerning the University’s deci-
sion to terminate the existence of the
Glee Club. As an alumnus and former
president of the Glee Club (1984), I feel
compelled to add my voice to the ca-
cophony on this subject.

I understand and share, to some de-
gree, the emotion and nostalgia which the
prospect of the end of the Glee Club
creates. However, while I agree in prin-
ciple that we should preserve the past for
the future when it is possible to do so, I
respectfully disagree with these gentle-
men on this issue.

The decision to bring coeducation to
W&L (which I supported and continue to
support) necessarily decreased the num-
ber of male students at the University.
This has made it increasingly difficult to
provide the number of voices necessary
to sustain an all-male chorus. In addition,
I think it is only proper that the Univer-
sity Chorus of mixed voices should be-
come the “premiere singing group on
campus” (to use the words of Messrs.
Peppers and Bell). It would be grossly
unfair to render roughly one-half of the
student body (i.e., sopranos and altos)
ineligible to sing with the “premiere
group,” which would be the effect of
maintaining the Glee Club in that posi-
tion.

I have not spoken with Dr. Spice in
any detail on this subject, so | donot know
the chain of events which led to this
decision. I do know that he alone is re-
sponsible for the degee of musical excel-
lence which the Glee Club achieved, and
lam sure that this decision could not have
been an easy one for him. I trustimplicitly
both his judgment and his ability to see
past his feelings to make a decision which
is best for W&L’s musical program.

Regarding the author’s suggestion
that the end of the Glee Club is the
equivalent of the end of male chorus

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 3

music at W&L, I feel sure that the tenors
and basses in the University Chorus will
have voices of sufficient quality to keep
pieces like Biebl’s “Ave Maria” and
“Shenandoah” in the musical repetoire. I
am confident that the University will not
jettison all-male (or all-female, for that
matter) choral selections merely because
the single-sex chorus no longer exists.

In closing, I concur that we can ex-
pect no “Lazarus-like” resurrection of the
Glee Club. In my experience, good things
eventually end and, if one is lucky, better
things take their places. I am confident
that from the ashes of the W&L Glee
Club will rise the University Chorus, a
musical phoenix unlike anything the
University has ever heard.

Powell M. Leitch III, ’84, ’87L
Roanoke, Va.

+
Losses of another kind
EDITOR:

Having just returned from Reunion
Weekend, I am left with many good
memories. All of the hard work of the
University staff paid off, and it is much
appreciated. I can think of only one over-
sight, and I would like to use this forum to
say something about it.

There were classmates who could
not attend by choice, but there were also
classmates who had no choice of attend-
ing due to their untimely deaths. I have
become keenly aware of and anguished
over the W&L men who have already
succumbed to AIDS. I do not wish to
single out any particular group, for the
loss of any loved one, friend, colleague, or
companion is difficult enough, but I do
want to call attention to this tragedy that
has been visited upon us.

At the reunion we had the opportu-
nity to remember alumni who had died in
World War II and the 18 who died in the
Vietnam War, but we forgot those who
have faced this plague in their own per-

4 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

LETTERS

sonal way and lost. I would like us to take
note of those who have died from AIDS,
for this is a tragedy of wasted lives and of
talented men (and soon enough, talented
women) who will never again write or turn
a phrase that can capture our imagination,
nor heal someone ill or save a life, nor
create a service, a work of art, a business.
I imagine the Lee Chapel bell ringing out
for each W&L man who has left us be-
cause of AIDS, and I would hope that the
waning of each tone evokes our grief at the
unbearable loss already in our midst.

Bob Carrere, ’72
Hempstead, N.Y.

+

Looking at ‘elite’

EDITOR:

Those of us in the W&L community
whocare about the truth owe John Zink an
expression of gratitude for his articulate
letter appearing in the last issue (W&L,
Spring 1992)—no matter what our opin-
ion of fraternities may be.

I don’t believe I have ever read any-
where such a bold and eloquent state-
ment of what fraternities are ultimately
and essentially all about. Indeed, itappears
Mr. Zink has let the proverbial genie out
of the bottle of obfuscation in which it
usually hides!

What fraternities are all about, of
course, is social privilege—the affirmation
of it, the support of it, and the increase of
it. Mr. Zink acknowledges this obvious
fact by referring to the fraternity system as
one “by and for those who have been
born, bred, and educated to lead and con-
trol” the greater system of which it is a
reflection. He is correct in noting, as well,
that the fraternity system is private, for
members only, and exclusive.

When Mr. Zink extends his observa-
tions beyond fraternities to comment on
American society at large, however, I be-
lieve his admiration for fraternities leads
him to err in his analysis of our current

social ills and the appropriate remedy for
those ills. He hearkens back to a time 30
years or more past when an “elite group
acting through its members for their own
ends” produced general “societal good.”

Because the elite group to which Mr,
Zink refers acts and has always acted for
its own good only, whatever general social
benefits may occasionally accrue from its
actions are coincidental only. Anyone
who has any doubts about this need only
ask anyone of the millions of individual
Americans Mr. Zink’s definition would
permanently exclude from the elite and,
thereby, from full participation in the
American system.

Like Mr. Zink, I bemoan the fact that
elitism has become a “dirty word” in our
society generally. I, too, am in favor of
promoting and nurturing elite groups.
However, I hearken back to two old tradi-
tions quite different from and typically in
conflict with the fraternal in looking for
terms with which to define such elites:
our Judeo-Christian religious heritage and
the political and social principles charac-
teristic of constitutional democracy.

Fundamental to the religious tradi-
tion in which our nation was founded is
the concept of service. According to this
tradition, God is the only real master and
we are all of us God’s servants born to
obey divine law and to serve our fellow
humankind for the love of God. Constitu-
tional democracy owes its relative success
as a means of government largely to the
fact that the principles of constitutional
democracy in effect support and promote
this religious tradition. By creating a soci-
ety in which all citizens have (theoreti-
cally, at least) equal rights under law,
Franklin, Adams, Washington, Jefferson,
and the other giants, from whose minds
and hearts this nation sprung, made pos-
sible the practical, temporal conditions in
which the Judeo-Christian religious heri-
tage could be implemented.

I submit that the social problems of
the last 30 years or so cited by Mr. Zink are
the result not of an egalitarian movement,

 

 

 

 

but, rather, of a general social loss of belief
‘n our religious heritage and of respect for
constitutional law. The vacuum resulting
from this loss has become a wide-open
playground forspecial-interest groups (and
therapists!) of all stripes. Notions of per-
sonal virtue and merit, of excellence in
work, of social responsibility have given
way before the force of the self-centered,
self-aggrandizing consumer who sees
politics merely as the tool used to get what
he orshe wants. In effect, ina world where
technology has become god, everyone
wants to be an elite, just the kind of
privileged elite of one kind or another Mr.
Zink describes and eulogizes.

That such elitist attitudes are reac-
tionary and unmindful of the future seems
obvious to me. Left to its own devices,
W&L’s fraternity system would have self-
destructed sooner rather than later. ‘The
University’s decision to invest valuable
resources in an attempt to preserve a so-
cial system based on exclusivity and
privilege means only thata future genera-
tion will preside over the demise of that
system. Similarly, allowed to play itself
out on the national level, the elitist attitude
supportive of the fraternity system leads
inevitably to the burning of Los Angeles.

Like it or not guys, America is a
relatively open society. This is one of the
reasons so much of the world has for 200
years risked death to become a part of our
society. George Washington and most of
the other founding fathers would have
wanted itno other way. The elitists, those
who would be king, tended to remain
ensconced in the comfort and security of
the Old World.

An open society in which all citizens
have equal rights under law, however, is
not the same as a society in which all are
equal. Both our religious heritage and our
Constitution recognize this fact, though,
as Mr. Zink suggests in his letter, many in
Contemporary America attempt to ignore
reality in this regard. It takes courage in
today’s politically-charged social climate
to point out that we are not all equally

LETTERS

equipped to become a judge, a brain sur-
geon, an economist, a physicist, a novelist,
an opera singer, or a professional basket-
ball player—no matter how much edu-
cation or training we may receive. Our
talents differ in kind and in degree.

So much seems obvious. That so
many in our society today refuse to see the
obvious may have something to do with
the fact that for so long those who have
had the power to implement the ideals of
our religious and political traditions have
failed to exercise their responsibility. ‘To
resort to the world of athletics for an
analogy, all too often our leaders in gov-
ernment and business have chosen sof to
maintain a level playing field, but, in-
stead, to secure their own positions on the
team. The current cynicism of the Ameri-
can electorate is simply one obvious
symptom of this debilitating condition.

I do not believe, in short, that a revi-
talized fraternity system is any kind of
cure for our social ills. Rather, we need a
revitalized sense of moral and social re-
sponsibility. We need to hear vigorously
spoken again in public that from those to
whom much has been given, much is
expected. (And the argument that one
worked for what one has doesn’t excuse
one from moral and social responsibility;
the man who picks up my garbage twice a
week also works for his living.) The W&L
I know is well-equipped to inculcate this
lesson. As long as the University contin-
ues to strive to foster in students a respect
for truth and a sense of our social interde-
pendence, I suppose it doesn’t matter too
much if the parties at the frat houses get a
little rowdy now and then.

Len Blanchard, *69
Key West, Fla.

+
The CRC’s ‘absurdity’

EDITOR:

The recently proposed “Principle of
Civility and Decency,” developed by the

Confidential Review Committee , and
mentioned in your last issue (WG&L,
Spring 1992), was an abomination of po-
litical correctness and was shameful in
its attempt to trample free speech and
constitutional rights of the W&L com-
munity. ‘The proposal, coming after a self-
review of obviously dubious value and in-
tent, was high in hypersensitivity of spe-
cial interest groups and appears to have
been a brazen attempt by a group with an
extreme agenda to use a university board
of questionable necessity for its own in-
tents at the expense of the truths and
values which are at the core of the univer-
sity system, and the traditional role of a
liberal arts institution.

I would like to praise the W&L fac-
ulty for its recent rejection of this purely
political proposal. ‘They should be com-
mended for recognizing the “Principle”
for what it was: an absurdity which if
passed, could only have brought ridicule
and condemnation upon our beloved
college, from within and without. Soon, I
hope, the CRC will be disbanded perma-
nently.

Once more, hats off to the faculty.

John R. Maass, ’87
Glen Allen, Va.

NOTE: See CRC story in Gazette, p. 28

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and
Lee welcomes letters from its readers. All letters
should be typed and include the author’s name,
address, and daytime telephone number. All
letters will be subject to editing for length, con-
tent, and style. Writers are strongly encouraged
to limit their letters to two pages in length. The
editor reserves the right to determine which
letters recetved will be published.

Correspondence should be sent to

UNIVERSITY EDITOR
Publications Office
Hill House

Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

 

WA&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 5

AN UGLY, RAINY, BEAUTIFUL,
GREAT Day

by Mike Stachura

U/ gly. Rainy, muddy, sloppy, soaking, cramped, The 375 undergraduate degree
recipients may not have had great
weather for their final day as W&L

tion Day 1992, held in the non-air-conditioned Warner seniors, but they will take with them
many great memories. ‘They have seen
much in their time in Lexington, and
they have accomplished much, too: the

stuffy, steamy, sweaty, miserable. That is what Gradua-

Center on a wet and stormy June morning, was like.

But only at Washington and Lee manifestation of the ideals of the
could a day so seemingly reprehensible Fraternity Renaissance Program...the
turn out to be so beautiful. establishment of a thriving sorority

Forced inside for the first time system...the completion of the Lenfest

since 1976, W&L’s 1992
graduates might have had
their caps and gowns damp-
ened by the constant showers
outside the Warner Center,
but their spirits weren’t
dampened in any regard,
given the celebratory war
whoops, the tossed caps, and
the occasional champagne
corks ricocheting around the
gymnasium confines during
the commencement exer-
cises. (True enough, the
ceremonies could have
taken place in the spacious
and climate-controlled
confines across town at
VMI’s Cameron Hall, but
W&L students voiced their
displeasure at holding their
graduation anywhere other
than on W&L grounds. So

 

some 3,000 people shoe- oe y
horned themselves into the There was barely breathing room, let alone standing room, as 3,000 peo-
Warner Center, where ple packed the Warner Center for Commencement exercises. Page 7:

Doug Lefevre recetves congratulations at rainy ROTC commissioning

temperatures inside topped
ceremony.

the 80-degree mark.)
Rain and sauna-like

conditions notwithstanding, it still was, Center...the dreaded Lexington car tax.
as President John D. Wilson reminded As Wilson reminded the graduates
the crowd of graduates, friends, and in his opening words, “You leave
parents, “a great day.” countless examples of selfless acts

6 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

meant to advance your University,
whether performed in the classroom or
on the playing field, or in the E.C.
room or along the Colonnade. We are
most grateful to you for helping to raise
still higher the standards and expecta-
tions of Washington and Lee.” It was
what the president later called the
class’s “compelling legacy.”

In his commencement remarks,
Hamilton Earle “Bo” Russell III of
Greenville, S.C., vice president of the
Executive Committee, spoke to the
compelling legacy of not only his class,
but his university, as well. He brought
to mind the interesting characters, unfor-
gettable places, and magical events that
made the past four years more than
four ordinary years for him and his class-
mates. ‘These were the kinds of things
that led Marshall Jarrett, professor of
history , to remark to Russell and his
classmates in a freshman history class
once that Washington and Lee is
“Utopia U.” These college experiences

 

 

have been the experiences of a life-
time, Russell said.

“Before I got here, my dad told me
that I would make my best friends in
college,” he said. “Well, looking out
today I can tell you that that is in fact

the case. ‘There is a sense of closeness
here. All of the names and faces of the
students are familiar. Even those
classmates that you do not see on a
daily basis you are acquainted with and
feel that you can carry on a conversa-
tion with them at any time. Just think
of walking on the Colonnade between
classes or how wonderful it is to be able
to go to a basketball or lacrosse game
where you are friends with just about
every player on the team or how the
starting quarterback on the football
team is also a member of your Roman-
tic Poetry class.

“... [he fact is that we do not
simply leave this school today. ‘The
friendships that we have made here
and the experiences that we have had
are too powerful to allow that.”

 

ommencement is a time for
reme mbe ring and Wilson told the graduates of his memories of

this class as freshman and the promises he had made to their parents on that first

parents weekend in the fall of 1988.

The promise was of a strong place
to learn with strong people to guide
that process, “a decent community
and...a class of fine young people...people
worth knowing, people worth being
with; people you could learn from,
people who would help out if and
when a little help was needed.”

The president assured the gradu-
ates that the promise had been re-
deemed in full. He counseled them to
take these qualities that make Wash-
ington and Lee a strong place out into
the world with them.

“Start small, start at home, apply
what you learned here: discipline, hard
work, honesty, pride and self-confi-
dence, a caring regard for others,” he
said. “Personal values of this sort are
infectious. Practice them quietly, unos-
tentatiously without self-celebration.
You will find your corner of the world
improved, and you will have found a
disciple or two along the way.”

Wilson left the graduates with one
final charge at commencement: to live

their lives well.

“Repay your parents and teachers
in the only way you possibly can,” he
said, “by living good and successful
lives and by helping, in turn, your own
children to start out well, along the path
of achievement and goodness. That is
the best way to thank your parents for
what they have given you—to show
them that, indeed, you do understand
one of life’s greatest paradoxes: that
true happiness comes to those who care
first about others and not themselves,
who learn to give deeply in love or
compassion, who can reach out beyond
themselves to make something good
and helpful happen.”

toe

As is customary, Washington and
Lee conferred its honorary degrees at
the undergraduate commencement
exercises and three outstanding leaders
were honored with honorary doctorates:

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

U.S. Congressman Jim Olin, musician
and conductor Victoria Bond, and edu-
cator Paula Brownlee.

Olin, who will retire from his
Congressional seat this year after 10
years of service, is a retired vice presi-
dent and general manager for the
General Electric Corp., who has served
Lexington, southwest Virginia, and the
nation in his years in Congress. Olin
was with General Electric for 35 years
before beginning his career as a public
servant at the age of 62. He has served
on the House Agriculture and Small
Business committees and chaired the
House subcommittee on the Environ-
ment and Employment.

Olin received the degree of Doctor
of Laws.

Bond, music director and conduc-
tor of the Roanoke Symphony Orches-
tra and artistic director and conductor of
Opera Roanoke, is an honored musi-
cian and conductor, having been the
first woman to earn a doctorate in con-
ducting from The Juilliard School. She
was the first woman to be appointed an
Exxon/Arts Endowment Conductor

Oe <6 i -:
‘ a

 

8 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

with a major orchestra, the Pittsburgh
Symphony. She has appeared as a
guest conductor with leading orchestras
through the U.S. and Europe. Since
assuming her role with the Roanoke
Symphony in 1986, Bond has guided
the group from a part-time infrequent
act to a professional orchestra with a

$1 million budget.

Bond received the degree of Doc-
tor of Fine Arts.

Brownlee, former longtime presi-
dent of Hollins College, is the current
president of the Association of Ameri-
can Colleges. In her new post, she
heads the only national organization
whose mission is to strengthen under-
graduate liberal education. She earned
her bachelor’s, master’s, and doctorate
degrees in chemistry from Oxford Uni-
versity. She taught at both the Univer-
sity of Bridgeport and Rutgers Univer-
sity, and later served as associate dean
and acting dean at Douglas College of
Rutgers, dean of the faculty at Union
College, and then president of Hollins,
where she was celebrated as “one of
the 100 most effective presidents in
higher education.”

Brownlee received
the degree of Doctor of
Letters.

Also recognized
during the ceremony
were several members of
the class of 1992.
‘Thomas D. Knight of
LaGrange, Ga., was
named valedictorian. He
finished his studies with
a grade-point average of
4.267 on a 4.330 scale,
the highest ever attained
by a W&L undergradu-
ate. He majored in Ameri-
can history and classics,
was a member and presi-
dent of the national ser-
vice organization Alpha
Phi Omega, and was
elected to Phi Beta
Kappa.

Sarah E. Briggs of
Maryville, ‘Tenn., and
John Thomas “Trey”
Cox III of Shreveport,
La., received the Alger-

non Sydney Sullivan Medallion,
awarded by the W&L faculty to the
graduating seniors “who excel in high
ideals of living in spiritual qualities,
and in generous and disinterested
service to others.”

Briggs was a University Scholar,
served as business manager and a
member of Jubilee, and also was a
peer counselor. Cox, a four-year
letterman and captain of the football
team, was vice president of the senior
class, secretary of the Student Conduct
Committee, and state chairman of the
Louisiana delegation at the Mock Con-
vention. He was a member of ODK
and Phi Beta Kappa.

BACCALAUREATE

The day before commencement
exercises was a much different occasion
weather-wise, with brilliant sunshine
darting in and out of tufts of clouds and
a gentle breeze stirring the leaves of
the majestic trees on the Front Lawn.
But the emotions of the day were just

as grand as the next day’s would be.

‘The Rev. Randall L. Prior, ’67,
father of graduating senior Christopher
Prior, used the science of chaos theory
to tell his son and his classmates that
each of them are connected with each
other and their world and they must
work together to strengthen it and keep
it whole.

Prior, the rector of St. Andrew’s
Episcopal Church in Burke, Va., began
by recognizing the importance of the
baccalaureate remarks, something he
had experienced 25 years earlier at his
graduation from W&L.

“Honestly, I don’t remember much
about what was said that day, and you
may likely not have this address em-
blazoned on your memory years from
now, he said.

But Prior’s message may have
struck a deeper chord, especially
among an audience where a sense of
volunteerism seems to be taking root.
He urged the graduates to exercise
their freedom to act, but only to do so

 

 

with an awareness of their relationship
to others.

“Need the self-centered ways of
recent decades continue to govern our
outlook, our purpose, and how we go
about addressing the crucial issues of
our day,” Prior asked. “An ethic of my
needs first, whatever the cost, won’t go
forever unchallenged. In fact, I suspect
today in Rio de Janeiro [the site of the
Earth Summit] it is being challenged.

“...[sn’t it truly time to think glo-
bally and to see our needs and those of
others in a spirit of mutuality and
concern.”

As Prior explained it, the overlap-
ping and interconnectedness in nature
uncovered by chaos theory applies just
as well to our lives. Our physical world
is shaped by many and various small
events, and so, too, should our mental,
spiritual, and psychological worlds.

“Freedom and interconnectedness
form the paradox of human life in
nature,” Prior said. “Our relationships
moderate our freedom and maintain
some sense of order in life. At the
same time, freedom makes possible
€ver new variations in relationship.
We, like nature, are simultaneously
free and bound.

“...rom ecologists, from family
Systems theorists, from astrophysicists,
the messages are similar: We are con-
nected, we are interdependent, we are
Not so free as we would like to believe,
and we are more powerful to effect
change than we imagine.”

 

LAW SCHOOL
(GRADUATION

For the first time since 1989,
commencement exercises for the
School of Law were blessed with fair
weather, and beneath blue skies, the
121 W&L law graduates received their
traditional canes, their diplomas, and
some final instructions from Randall P.
Bezanson, dean of the School of Law,
and commencement speaker Anthony
Lewis, Supreme Court reporter, New
York Times columnist, and Pulitzer

Prize-winner.

Gathered on the Front Lawn with
a peaceful breeze rustling through the
trees, the graduates were reminded of a
sad fact on what for many would be
their last day in Lexington: “The
world,” he said, perhaps only half in
jest, “is not likely to be as pleasant as
Washington and Lee.”

‘The long-time observer of the
American scene listed the litany of
problems facing the nation and,
especially, the nation’s recent gradu-
ates. He framed his comments in the
context of the problems of race that still
exist in America, what he called “the

 

 

 

Page 8: Baccalaureate dawned with bright skies and
smiling faces, while (page 9) law graduates similarly
had much to smile about and much to reflect upon
after Anthony Lewis’s words on their graduation day.

casual humiliations that affect innocent
men and women in this country every
day.”

‘The problems, he said, are for-
midable, and the solutions will have to
be found by the graduates of today. But
Lewis had hope for the graduates and
hope for the country, as well.

“America is an extraordinarily re-
silient nation,” he said. ‘That hope is
founded in a faith in the law, said Lewis.

“If we of the past generation could
ask one thing of you, it would be to
care,” he said. “I think it is especially
right to ask this of lawyers. In my ex-
perience, the law can represent the best
in America. I hope each of you will
believe in a continuing obligation to
the community.”

Lewis’s words echoed those of
Bezanson, who commented on the
need for today’s lawyers to work for
constructive, thoughtful change.

“I believe the legal system is our
principal instrument of change, and
that lawyers are the principal architects
of that change,” he said. “Change is
part and parcel of the social progress. If
we have done our job well here, we
have prepared you for a life of change.”

During the commencement cere-
mony, Betsy E. Dulin of South Charles-
ton, W.Va., received the John W. Davis
Prize for the highest cumulative grade-
point average.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

"NO

10 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 
  
   

ORDINARY MOMENTS’

SEVEN SENIORS REFLECT ON
WASHINGTON AND LEE

C ommencement is a time of reflection and celebration, a time for cataloging the college
experience, its highlights, its failures, its essence. No writer can completely touch these emotions
unless these emotions, these memories are his or her own.

Thus, it is in that light that the following essays are presented. Written by seven graduating
seniors, these short pieces represent the compelling legacy of the Class of 1992 that President Wilson

spoke of in his commencement address. The writers are no more—nor less—

 

extraordinary than any of their classmates, and as such they serve as a standard by

which this class of W&L graduates can be judged.

AMY BEALL

I remember the day as if it were
yesterday. I was in Cape Hatteras
during the summer of ’84 and was
lucky enough to come across a copy of
The Washington Post. Finally, I found
the announcement that the Board of
‘Trustees of Washington and Lee
University had voted in favor of
coeducation. It was one of the happiest
days of my life. My father had been
dragging me to the campus even before
I could walk, and, of course, I fell in
love with the institution. My dreams
(and my father’s) have come true and
what a great tenure I have had at
Washington and Lee. I decided to
pursue journalism, and I immediately
fell in love with the radio and television
aspects of the field and decided to
major in broadcast journalism. I
definitely felt at home in Reid Hall. I
remember when a friend of mine who
attends Virginia Tech came to pick me
up for Christmas break. I told her I
needed to stop by the J-School to say
Merry Christmas to my professors.
Professor MacDonald gave me a big
hug and my friend could not believe it.

She barely knows the
professors in her
department.

One event that I
enjoyed and will re-
member the most was
Mock Convention. At
the last minute, I de-
cided to help Professor
de Maria with the media
coverage. While most
of my friends were
having a good time, I
was running around
either being an anchor, a reporter, or a
camera person. What an experience! I
got a natural high from covering the
event and all of my doubts about what
to pursue in the future quickly dimin-
ished. It was also on that weekend that
I received one of the biggest com-
pliments ever. It happened when I was
running around on the floor trying to
find people to interview. I decided to
interview professors [William] Connelly
and [Mark] Rush of the politics depart-
ment. I explained my intent and then
one of them asked which station I was
representing. I looked at them and
said, “I am a senior at Washington and

 

 

Lee.” Even though they don’t know it,
that meant the world to me. It was on
that weekend that I realized that my
experience at W&L has given me the
knowledge and determination to pursue
a career in journalism. Now all I need is
a chance to prove it. D

 

AMY BEALL of Martinsburg, Va., worked
for both Cable Channel Nine and WLUR,
where she was news director. She also served
@s a resident assistant in Gaines Dormitory.

ARMANDO BENINCASA

‘Trying to reflect on four years of
anyone’s life is a difficult task. Trying to
focus on four years at Washington and
Lee is nearly impossible. Events
occurred over these four years that
Shaped every student’s life. It was a
time of change and learning. It was a
time when we students learned not just

the importance of grades and educa-
tion, but how to get along with the
people around us.

The Class of 1992 has been
witness to some disturbing events in
the past four years. ‘The death of
Ashley Scarborough by a hit-and-run
driver during my freshman year had a
severe impact on me and my feelings
about the school. For months Wash-
ington and Lee was adrift after learning
that one of her own was responsible for
this tragedy, and even more disturbing
was the belief that others had not
volunteered information about the
events of that night on the corner of
Estill and Washington. We would be
better off to remember that while we
have an honor system, not everyone
abides by it or acts honorably.

We have many problems and a
long way to go before we reach a full
understanding of who we are and what
kind of world it is that we want to live
in. Washington and Lee has shown me
that it has the concern and the heart to
overcome these obstacles. In moments
of anguish, this community of students,
faculty, administration, and employees
pulls together. We learn from our own
mistakes, which is why I leave Wash-
ington and Lee proud. Its traditions, its
honor system, and its community of
faculty and students represent the best
parts of this nation. ‘The students, for
the most part, live together in harmony
and have a special concern for each
other and the community around us.
We perform community service, and
we do our best to improve our school,
not because we have to, but because it
makes us feel good, because we can
make a difference.

I am proud of this place as I leave
it. ‘he students have overcome a lot in
recent years, but an example of per-
severance has been set. I will miss the
friendly faces and the good times at this
school. Washington and Lee is an ex-
ample of the college spirit. It is a place
where ingenuity is rewarded and a

 

 

 

ARMANDO BENINCASA of Lexington,
Va., was elected to ODK and Phi Beta
Kappa. He is editor of the student publica-
tion Vraveller and served as president of
the Young Democrats.

good idea does not go to waste. It is a
place where all things, good and bad,
are remembered. D

LAURA PILACHOWSKI

Although I was so happy to be
asked to contribute reflections on my
W&L experience to the alumni maga-
zine, I put off sitting down to write as
long as I possibly could. It is not easy
to contemplate the last four years be-
cause this means confronting the fact
that they are coming to an end. My
years at W&L have been the best time
of my life, and I could never give back
to this university all that it has given
me.

‘The education I received at
Washington and Lee came from my
experiences both inside and outside
the classroom. An important advantage
to attending a small university is the
opportunity students have to interact
closely with the faculty. Several of my

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE I1

 

‘ :

LAURA PILACHOWSKI of Baltimore served as president of the student leadership

—

organization Kathekon during her senior year, and served on the Mock Convention steering
committee. She was elected to ODK her senior year.

professors at W&L have taken an
interest in my life beyond the class-
room. They have become much more
than professors or advisers; they are
true friends.

Speaking of friendship, being a
member of Kappa Kappa Gamma has
been a wonderful experience. It has
enabled me to spend time with “just
the girls” and to make friends in other
classes. I also enjoyed working with
the Student Recruitment Committee
because it gave me the opportunity to
tell prospective students about why
W&L is such a special place. My two
years in Kathekon include some of the
greatest times I have had at W&L.
Homecoming and Reunion Weekends
and the many other activities Kathekon
is involved with have shown me that in
addition to having an outstanding stu-
dent body, W&L has the most enthusi-
astic and supportive alumni community
a school could ask for. ‘The alumni I
have met or spoken with on the phone
have made me realize that the W&L
experience does not have to end at
graduation.

The greatest extracurricular ex-
perience I have had at W&L was being
a member of the steering committee for
the Mock Convention. Helping to make
this event a success was the most ex-
citing thing I have ever done.

All these memories are very special

12 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

to me, but nothing can compare to the
friends I have made in the past four
years. ‘To my closest friends, my room-
mates from the past three years, I feel
so lucky to have had the chance to live
with you. The best times were spent
drinking champagne together, eating
Sunday brunch at The Palms, laughing
in the living room, and supporting each
other through good and bad times. I
love you all as the sisters I never had.

I will be sad to leave Lexington,
but I know that this is just a new begin-
ning for the Class of 92. ‘Thank you,
Washington and Lee, for four wonder-
ful years and for college friendships
that will last a lifetime. D

BOBBY WEISGERBER

During my last few weeks here, I,
like most seniors, have spent much
time pondering the fine memories I
take from Washington and Lee. Now,
more than ever, I realize and appreciate
the tradition of excellence which has
surrounded and nurtured me over the
last four years. It began with a rigorous
classroom environment that fostered
precise and logical thought as my
professors and fellow students relent-
lessly churned my mind. The liberal

 

arts experience at Washington and Lee
has humbled me: the more I learn, the
more I realize how little I know.

‘The same tradition of excellence
prevailed in my co-curricular activities.
On the soccer team, for example, my
teammates pushed me to try a little
harder, to give a little more. Our
favorite mottos and slogans included,
“Pain is temporary, pride is forever.”
and “P’TBAG—Proud To Be A
General.” Revealing the true signifi-
cance of being an athlete, the Fellow-
ship of Christian Athletes enhanced my
experience with the soccer program. Of
even greater significance, this group
provided me a consistent dosage of
much-needed and welcomed Christian
worship and fellowship. I am especially
thankful for its committed members,
challenging discussions, and
unwavering devotion to the Lord.

The activity I have enjoyed the
most has been the freshman dorm
counselor program. Serving as a coun-
selor has provided me a unique oppor-
tunity to share my love and enthusiasm
for Washington and Lee with a very
receptive, pleasant, and talented group
of freshmen. Furthermore, I have had
the pleasure of working with Dean [of
Freshmen Dennis] Manning and an
outstanding and diverse staff of coun-
selors. ‘Thank you all for a great year.

 

 

 

 

BOBBY WEISGERBER of Mount Pleasant, Pas
served as Head Dormitory Counselor and was eHem@
to ODK. He also participated in the Big Brother

program and the Fellowship of Christian Athletes.

 

In conclusion, although the Univer-
sity as an institution Carries this supe-
rior tradition of virtues and ideals on
which this excellence rests, It 1s the
people—my fellow students, fraternity
brothers, teammates, and professors—
who have continued to realize the
vision of the two gentlemen for which
our school is named. I can only hope
that I have added as much to the lives
of those around me as they have added

to my life. B

JODI HERRING

W&L has become home to me
over the past four years. Everyone can
read in Newsweek or U.S. News to see
that we have a wonderful school with a
great reputation. When people think of
W&L, they probably first think of the
Honor System, Speaking ‘Tradition, and
many other well-known traditions.
W&L has, however, come to mean
much more than that to me. I’ve
realized in the last week that the real
beauty of W&L is everything that has
gone virtually unnoticed for four years.
I’ve driven around the countryside,
walked on the Colonnade, talked to
professors, and hung out with friends
without recognizing how very special

these times are. The

 

specific people and
events need not even
be listed, because the
deep feelings
associated with them
could not be ex-
pressed. One feeling
that can be ex-
pressed, though, is
the great joy I’ve
found in sharing this
experience with my
brother, who gradu-
ated in 1989, and my
sister, who was a
freshman this year.
Many friends have
come and gone, but
the family support
has remained
constant. The
education at W&L, in and out of the
classroom, is invaluable, and I cannot
imagine being anywhere else. Some of

 

 

 

 

JODI HERRING of Boone, N.C., was selected for ODK and Phi Beta Kappa and
participated in the Big Sister program. She served as an assistant head dorm counselor. In

athletics, she was a captain of the cross country and swimming teams, and was a four-year
All-ODAC swimmer and 1992 ODAC Swimmer of the Year.

the memories will eventually fade;
however, I will always remember the
feeling of peace and security I’ve felt
here. In my favorite book, 74e Way of
the Peaceful Warrior, Socrates says,
“There are no ordinary moments.” ‘This
statement simply expresses the way I
view the last four years. W&L and the
wonderful people I’ve gotten to know
here, will forever hold a very special
place in my heart. D

ELISE BRYANT

In elementary school, “College T-
Shirt and Hat Day” sent me and my
classmates digging through our parents’
closets. Among the oranges, reds, and
maroons of the University of ‘Texas,
Texas Tech, and Texas A&M, I always
stood out in the blue and white of my
father’s W&L attire. Now, however, I
wear my own W&L T-shirt, a situation
that was inconceivable during my days
at Dartmouth Elementary 15 years ago.

I spent my freshman year in awe of
the women in the senior class, the first
admitted to W&L. Because of their
drive, I not only wore a W&L shirt, but
also could don a varsity soccer uniform

and a women’s fraternity member T-
shirt. During my four years here, my
own achievements on the soccer team
and in Kappa Kappa Gamma can only
reflect on the energy of those who
made those accomplishments possible.

The senior women also inspired
me with their work ethic to devote
myself to other academic and extra-
curricular activities. For instance, I had
the unique opportunity to participate in
the planning and execution of the
Mock Convention as both Secretary of
the Convention and a member of the
Executive Board. While the actual
event brought me many sleepless
nights, I never doubted its ultimate
success because of the caliber of my
peers, the support of the faculty and
administration, and the generosity of
alumni and parents. ‘The event illus-
trated two essential facets of W&L’s
own success: the commitment and
energy of its students and the strength
of the W&L community in Lexington
and throughout its alumni chapters.

I have participated in and been
witness to great transitions in the Uni-
versity, including Fraternity Renais-
sance, the construction of the Lenfest
Center, and the founding of women’s
fraternities. All of these have served to
strengthen the greatest traditions of

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

 

 

tion and was on the executive board of its steering committee. She was a three-year letterwinner on the soccer
team and was a co-captain of the team her senior year. She was a University Scholar and was selected to

Phi Beta Kappa and ODK.

W&L—a rich liberal arts education, a
close-knit community, and a breadth of
leadership opportunities outside the
classroom. I have given myself fully to
an academic institution that was already
thriving on the commitment of men
and women before me. I hope that I
will leave behind the same spirit I
encountered at W&L in the fall of
1988—a spirit that could never fully be
captured in any T-shirt. D

JAY PLOTKIN

When I look back on my four years
at Washington and Lee, several things
will always stick out. I will always re-
member the friends I made, the Colon-
nade and Old George watching over
the University, memorable fraternity
parties, and certain things professors
drilled into my head that I’m sure I
really didn’t want to remember. But I
think the one thing I will remember
most about Washington and Lee is
Lexington.

Lexington seems to grow on you.
As a freshman, I can remember wishing
that I went to school in a town bigger
than Lexington, one with more than
one movie theater and other entertain-
ment outlets, one that didn’t seem to

14 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

close at 5 p.m. Friday and not open
again until 10:30 a.m Monday. Asa
sophomore, I took every opportunity
that presented itself to get away from
Lexington.

Then, in the midst of my junior
year, Lexington just didn’t seem so

 

 

boring after all. Maybe | just
learned how to cope with it
and get the most out of it,
but for some reason, it got
better. ‘here were never
any tough choices when
deciding where to eat and
there seldom were parking
problems. What parking
problems there might have
been were easily avoided by
walking. I’m not sure I can
put my finger on it, but some-
thing about the city just
grows on you. At least it did
for me.

Maybe it’s that W&L
and Lexington fit together
perfectly. In high school, I
found W&L the most attrac-
tive choice to spend my
college years for academic
reasons—the student-profes-
sor relationships, the oppor-
tunity to do what I wanted to
do, and the size of the school. But
looking back, I’d have to say that Lex-
ington helped add to the W&L image,
so much so that it’s tough to leave.
And maybe that’s part of the reason I

jumped at the opportunity to work at
W&L next year. D

JAY PLOTKIN of
Richmond, Va., has been
a Sportswriter for The
Ring-tum Phi since his
Freshman year, and he has
served as sports editor
since his sophomore year.
He also ts the chief sports
broadcaster for both

WLUR and Cable
Channel Nine. A
recipient of a 1992 Ring-
tum Phi Award, he will
be serving as an intern
with the W&L sports
information office next
year.

A FITTING I RIBUTE

POWELL HONORED BY SYMPOSIUM,
ARCHIVES DEDICATION

dedication of the new
wing of Lewis Hall
could not have hap-
= pened without Powell.
he three days in April that marked the dedication of the Lewis F. It was the unprece-
dented gift of his pro-
fessional papers that
perhaps could not have been a more fitting tribute to Powell the lawyer and served as the impetus
for the construction of
an archives and addi-
ply had given testimonial after testimonial, praising Powell ad infinitum. tional office space at
the School of Law. As
well, it was his effec-
tiveness as a lawyer,

Powell Jr. Archives at the School of Law at Washington and Lee University

judge than if those attending the symposium and dedication ceremonies sim-

by Mike What happened instead was a leader, and judge that provided the back-

Stachura memorable series of informed discus- drop for the memorable symposium.
sions on varied aspects of the law and But mostly, he was a background
judgeship. And there, lurking behind figure here, enjoying the proceedings,
every bold statement, there serving as a the speeches, the discussions, happy to
reference point, a foundation for the be a part of a good thing.

discourse, there was Lewis Powell,
scholar, lawyer, leader, Supreme Court
justice. Just as he had throughout his

professional life, Powell seemed again And the di SCUSSIONS

to make all things work for the better

without the slightest bit of attention were memorable.

drawn to himself.

He was the focus of the exercise ‘There on ‘Thursday were former
without being the focus of attention. Virginia Gov. Linwood Holton, *44,

Indeed, the entire weekend with and Oliver W. Hill remembering
its symposium of legal experts and its desegregation and the Richmond

 

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

public school system together. And
then on Friday, there were legal
scholars from Washington and Lee and
the universities of Texas, Virginia, and
lowa, ruminating an array of questions
from affirmative action and judicial
statesmanship to the “centrist” court
and even the length of judicial terms.
And then finally there was Saturday’s
cavalcade of events, starting with a
morning symposium and keynote
address from Chief Justice William
Rehnquist in the Lenfest Center and
moving later to the dedication cer-
emony at Lewis Hall, and then con-
cluding with an evening banquet char-
acterized mostly by fun, with noted
Capitol Hill newsman Charlie McDowell
leading the laughs as those gathered
toasted both Lewis Powell, Supreme
Court justice, and Lewis Powell, base-
ball hero. (It’s true. Special Lewis
Powell trading cards and autographed
baseballs were provided to party-goers
Saturday night to commemorate
Powell’s student days as team manager
for the baseball Generals. The former
justice also was honored with that erst-
while varsity letter in baseball that
came to him during the weekend some
63 years after the fact.)

It was McDowell who put the
esteemed justice in the proper perspec-
tive for all at Saturday evening’s con-
cluding dedication dinner, remember-
ing Powell at once as the young law
student trudging up the hill to “Old”
‘Tucker Hall and as the visionary who
made desegregation work in Richmond
and as the respected judge who admin-
istered the oath of office to a governor
whose grandparents had been slaves.

McDowell quoted

civil rights activist Jean Camper Cahn,
who once said, “My support for Lewis
Powell is based on the fact that I am
drawn inescapably to the sense that

16 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Lewis Powell is, above all, humane;
that he has a capacity to empathise, to
respond to the plight of a single human
being to a degree that transcends ide-
ologies of fixed position.”

Later McDowell concluded with
this thought. “The past still isn’t over,
and through institutions like Washing-
ton and Lee and people like Lewis
Powell, the past gives us what we need
to make the future better and better.”

It was a review of Powell’s past—a
past he dramatically shaped—that made
for the substance of the weekend. Among
the memorable presentations was Thurs-
day’s panel of Hill, Holton, and Judge
Robert Mehrige three men who were
in the thick of the desegregation battle
in Richmond, Va., in the 1950s, ’60s,
and ’70s, three men who know firsthand
of what they speak when they praise
Powell’s efforts to lessen and eventu-
ally to eliminate the massive resistance
to the Supreme Court’s abolition of the
“separate but equal” doctrine.

Hill remembered in particular
Powell quieting a rabid crowd at a pub-
lic meeting where a pro-segregation
speaker was followed by Hill, who
spoke in favor of integration on behalf
of the NAACP.

“The situation became very
tense,” Hill said. “I knew that a typi-

 

cal moderator at that time
would have suggested that
I retire hastily for my own
safety....At that time, Lewis
stood up beside me, and
in a cool, calm demeanor
and a steady voice, in-
sisted upon the restoration
of order. It was in a man-
ner similar to that of Jesus
calming the stormy Sea of
Galilee. ‘The audience
quieted down, I spoke,
and there was no further
incident.”

It was former Gov.
Holton, who remembered poignantly
the crisis of massive resistance to
integration of the schools.

“The goal, stated in my inaugural
address—to make Virginia a ‘model of
race relations’ based on an ‘aristocracy
of ability’—was our goal then and is our
goal today,” he said.

Addressing an audience that often
was too young to remember the heated
times of desegregation in Virginia, U.S.
District Judge Robert R. Mehrige Jr. of
the Eastern District assessed those
times and painted a picture that all,
especially those who weren’t there,
could see. He left his audience with a
hope.

“We have made progress, though
hopefully not as much as we will in the
same period of time in the future,” he
said. “African-Americans are at long
last receiving, to a great extent, the
treatment envisioned by the 14th
Amendment. Our citizenry is at long
last conscious of the educational
deprivation to which some of our
citizens have been subjected, and time,
morality, and the law give great
promise of ultimate equality in educa-
tion as well as in other aspects of our
lives.”

If the symposium’s Thursday
session was a lesson in desegregation

 

 

history, Friday’s discourse was a critical
assessment of the constitutional law
ramifications of the Powell years on the
Supreme Court. Powell the centrist
judge was discussed, as was the theory
of judicial statesmanship and Powell’s
exercise thereof. Legal scholars L.A.
Scot Powe of the University of ‘Texas,
Jean C. Love of the University of Iowa,
and Mark Grunewald, Allan Ides, and
Steven Hobbs of Washington and Lee
discussed landmark cases during the
Powell years, covering the gamut of
legal quandaries of the times from
abortion and integration to affirmative
action and due process.

Just as it had in Thursday’s session,
Powell’s name either ignited the
discussion or found its way into it.

“It was quite a substantive aca-
demic exercise,” said W&L law
professor Brian Murchison, orchestrator
of the weekend symposium. “I think
what we saw this weekend bodes well
for the archives as a place of research
and informed discussion. And Powell
seemed to be kind of a reference point,
an anchor that we kept coming back to
the whole weekend.”

Saturday, of course, served as the
weekend’s showcase, and the day
began appropriately with the keynote
address of special guest, Chief Justice
Rehnquist. Rehnquist defended the
idea that judging is a process and not
merely a result of personal opinion and
Politics, And when the Chief Justice’s
discussion reached its conclusion, there
Was Powell’s name cropping up again as
the paradigm example.

“Lewis F. Powell recognized fully

bubble-gum cards.

that judging is not only a
process, but a deliberative
process. He brought with
him to the bench, as we
all do, a mind imprinted
with past experience. In-
evitably, these experi-
ences helped to shape his
judicial philosophy. But
Lewis Powell recognized,
more than some of his predecessors,
that judging is not simply an exercise in
intellectual virtuosity. He had his own
views and at times could cling tena-
ciously to them, but he always saw the
Supreme Court as an institution that
was greater than the sum of its parts.
“He never lost sight of the fact
that an appellate judge’s primary task
is to function as a member of a collegial
body which must decide important
questions of law in a way that gives in-
telligible guidance to the bench and bar.”

Guests toured the

new $2 million addition to Lewis Hall
as part of Saturday afternoon’s dedica-
tion ceremony, an addition made
possible by a $1 million gift from
Frances and Sydney Lewis, *40, ’43L,
as well as other gifts of alumni, friends,
and associates of Justice Powell.
Construction on the addition began in

Powell was honored with a varsity letter
(left), and autographed baseballs and

June 1990 after Powell announced that
he would give his papers to the Uni-
versity. The collection, containing his
personal and professional papers, spans
his career on the Supreme Court and
his tenures as chairman of the Rich-
mond School Board and as president of
the American Bar Association.

‘The addition contains a vault for
the papers and an office for the profes-
sional archivist John J. Jacob, as well as
an office for Powell. The Powell Archives
wing also features a number of new
faculty offices, as well as seminar rooms
for law classes and research areas for
those studying the papers.

At the dedication ceremony for
the archives that afternoon, brief
comments praising Powell were made
by Rehnquist, American Bar Associa-
tion president-elect J. Michael
McWilliams, and W&L President John
D. Wilson.

In his remarks at the dedication
ceremony, Powell was soft-spoken but
direct, expressing his gratitude in an
understated yet powerful way. It was
only fitting.

“T’ve witnessed, and happily
taken part in, some of the vast changes
that have taken place in this great
country. Standing here today, I have
more feeling, appreciation, and
affection than I can possibly express.”

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

Remember When. . .

‘THE DAY OF

18

  

the

RMADILIG

 

 

, ’
, ,
drives lacrosse players from the ‘Tarheel

State into a frenzy?

Why an armadillo, of course.
Well, the Ex-Armadillo, to be precise.

hat has six heads, twelve arms, twelve
legs, a nearly impenetrable shell, and

 

 

 

by William
Cocke

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

On April 24, 1982, more than 4,000
puzzled lacrosse fans at Wilson Field
witnessed the strange birth and brief ex-
istence of the Washington and Lee ar-
madillo. ‘wo days later it was dead. But
what a life it had.

No one will really mourn its passing,
but everyone who witnessed that memo-
rable play will never forget it, realizing
that a little bit of lacrosse history was
played out on Wilson Field that day.

First some background. Under the
leadership of Coach Jack Emmer, the
Generals had enjoyed consistent success
throughout the 1970s and the early ’80s
as a small but powerful Division I con-
tender. W&L had made it to the playoffs
seven of the 10 years Emmer had been
coach, reaching the semifinals three times.
But W&L’s staunch refusal to offer ath-
letic scholarships made it harder and
harder to compete against those who did.
By the spring of 1982, the Generals had
become a regular

Duke, North
Carolina State,
and ‘Towson
State squads. In
the third game,
there was an in-
tense, narrow

loss (11-10 in
overtime) to
Navy.

But the real
watershed of the
season came
with a 22-8
trouncing by
third-ranked
Virginia the
week before the
Generals were to
face the No.1-
and undefeated—Tarheels. Morale
plummeted. It was then that Emmer
knew he had to think of something fast.

Orslow, asthe

 

David among case may be.
Goliaths. All that week practices were “I came
act. the . up with the
Generals had a closed while the play Was ham- Armadillo in
reputation as mer : tric the middle of
Giant Killers as ed Out In Ss t SECTEC) « the night af-
well. Already ter the Vir-
that season, un- ginia game,”

der the leadership of senior tri-captains
Mike Pressler, Mike Schuler, and Rob
Staugaitis they had dispatched tough

Emmer recalls. “I knew that somehow
the team had to find a way to experience
some success if we were to complete the

a mr my ¢ ry
| Naa |

~~ Z. 4 WA
PSTN ane

ie Cee > 4) ,
~ : _ . >
RD Pah T kn ey ag Leet ts “_
< :

ib

a

LIMITA ta

rot

~ As .
Ary

a ™

vous RON ROR:
it Denies >) oa
a AN nega

Bang

ay vi

‘North ( C wale na Py a even the referees probed and oiled? whi to solve the riddle of the Armadillo.

season on top. | had to give the guys some
reason to believe they could beat Caro-
lina.”

Emmer reasoned that the best strat-
“By was to take the wind out of the
Varheel’s sails. At the time, North Caro-
lina was the best team in college lacrosse,
with unmatched talent, speed, and depth.

So Emmer brought the team together
and pitched the idea of the Armadillo:
W&L would gain posession of the ball on
a missed shot on goal, then five offen-
Sive players would form a tight huddle,
locking their arms around a teammate

who cradled the ball in his stick, which
would be a modified goalie’s stick. “They
would hold this formation until an oppor-
tunity to try a shot on goal arose. ‘The
team bought off on the idea and the play
was set.

All that week practices were closed
while the Armadillo play was hammered
Out in strict secrecy. Players, coaches,
officials, even a strolling professor were
sworn not to reveal the plan to anyone.

Close to game time, everyone was
jittery and uncertain as to how such an
unorthodox play would be received. ‘T'r-

 

captain Rob Staugaitis remembers talk-
ing to a North Carolina player he knew
who worried that some opposing teams
might begin using stall tactics.

“T thought to myself, you don’t have
a clue,” Staugaitis recalls. “I said ‘“What-
ever happens tomorrow just don’t hold it
against us.’ ” Assistant coach Chuck
O’Connell warned his father who would
be in the stands watching that day, “I
apologize to you now for what’s going to
happen.”

When the opening whistle blew,
even Emmer had a panic attack. “I

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

 

 

thought, “This is ridiculous. What are we
doing here?’ I thought they were going to
boo us off the field.”

The partisan crowd at Wilson Field
did hardly that. Perplexed, even stunned
at first, the crowd soon caught on and got
behind the Armadillo in a big way,
cheering wildly whenever the play was
employed.

And the play worked well—at first.
In the opening period, W&L struck out
of the Armadillo for a 3-0 lead, but with
3:12 left Carolina gained control of the
ball to score three times in a one-minute
span and effectively keep W&L out of

20 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

the formation. By the half,
the Tar Heels were up 5-4
but W&L pulled in front
to a 7-6 advantage in the
third quarter. ‘Tied 7-7
early in the fourth quarter,
the Generals managed one
more goal but the Tar
Heels closed out the game
11-8.

During the second
half, the Generals chose to
use the Armadillo during
most of their offensive
possessions. In all, W&L
stayed in the Armadillo for
some 25 minutes of the 60-
minute game. ‘The offi-
cials, however, began to
take a harder line on the
shot on goal needed to set
up the play, ruling it a pass
instead, and thereby mak-
ing the play more difficult
to implement.

“It worked well until
the tension involved with
it wore us down late in the
game,” Emmer said at the
time.

“Every game carries
with it a certain intensity
level. But because this
game was so different, that
level never diminished,”
Staugaitis concurs.

Emmer recalls one
tension-relieving mo-
ment, though:

“Since there could
be only one goalie stick
on the field, and it was
held by the center
guy inthe Armadillo,
the W&L goalie had to make do
with an attack stick. After one of the
Armadillos broke up and ev-
erybody scattered, Caro-
lina gained control of ge
the ball and made a
one-on-one shot on
goal. Darned if our
goalie didn’t make the
save with a regulation
stick. ‘he whole place
went nuts.”

The effect the
Armadillo hadon UNC

was electric. In a re-

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   

cent Lacrosse magazine article, then.
captain Steve Stenersen recalled, “Our
initial reaction was, “This is ridiculous,’
‘That was followed by frustration, which
played right into their hands... we tried to
intimidate them into playing.”

‘That frustration translated into some
very lopsided penalty statistics (UNC
was penalized 13 times for 9:30, W&L_
just twice for 1:30) and some very sore
Generals. “I had bruises on top of bruises
after that game,” said Armadillo center
Bob Carpenter, 83.

Within the next two days, the lacrosse
rules committee had a conference call
and made an addendum to a rule on
withholding the ball from play that ef-
fectively squashed the Armadillo. W&L
went on to play the Syracuse Orangemen
to within a goal the next week (15-14),
and finished with a 9-4 season.

Was it all worth it? Emmer thought
so, and still does.

“The Armadillo accomplished what
it was intended for. It allowed us to be
competitive againsta more powerful team
and it gave us the boost we needed to
finish out the season successfully,” he
said. “I am glad, however, that it was a
one shot deal.”

Staugaitis agreed that it wasn’t en-
tered into lightly, but also defended what

he calls Emmer’s “stroke

Sn of genius.”
ng “It really
‘® ™ — was an honest-

to-goodness
. effort to put
») the game
on a more
even keel
and give us
something
to rally
around
after Vir-
ginia,” he
said. “The
Carolina
game, along
with the Navy
ame and the big
win at N. C. State,
brought us together
and made us a better,
more cohesive team.”

 

 

 

THE W

INGTON AND LEE ette

SUMMER « 1992

 

 

 

 

Reunion

Weekend

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WEEKEND

Another good time
back home in Lexing

eetings and

cocktail parties,

banquets and
barbecues, seminars,
speeches, special presenta-
tions, one very special class
gift and one brand new old
monument all together can
add up to only one thing:
Reunion Weekend 1992 at
Washington and Lee.

May 7-9 marked W&L’s
annual weekend celebration
honoring 20 special reunion
classes. ‘The three days were
filled with many memorable
events for the nearly 600
alumni and 1,200 guests who
returned to Lexington and

braved the rain, the unseason-

ably cool temperatures, and

    

end 10 years ago, deadpanned
his way through a 40-minute
assessment of American busi-
ness, industry, and education,
calling for a need to institute
quality systems across the
board to improve the United
States’ declining world posi-
tion. Sometimes curt, some-
times sarcastic, Dobyns’ words
continually hit the mark.

“I could give the same
speech [I gave 10 years ago],”
Dobyns said. “The problems

even the mud at Zollman’s for _are all the same....We still
the fun. don’t have any program to
The festivities began with train unemployed workers in
‘Thursday evening’s keynote this country. Our public
address by free-lance writer education system still stinks.
and long-time NBC news man And our standard of living
Lloyd A. Dobyns, ’57. Dobyns, continues to decline. My
who spoke at Reunion Week- feeling is one of enormous

Emotions deep, memories lasting for °42, 67

e who inhabit W&L year round find reunions as engaging

a time as do returning alumni. There’s a special camarade-

rie instantly felt with friends long unseen. Seasoned by

nostalgia (life really was simpler back then, no matter when ‘then’

might have been) and by the tricks that memory plays, the experience
makes for encounters of a rewarding kind.

With the Class of 1942 celebrating their 50th and the Class of 1967
their 25th, the 1992 reunions were unique. Though fully a generation
apart, members of both classes were, by dint of history, forced upon
graduating to deal with questions of life and death in the face of two very
different wars.

Both classes held special events to bring them closer together in
recalling shared experiences. Their gatherings were truly emotional
not only for the participating classmates, but also for facilitators and
house guests like ourselves. As nice as italways is to see old friends after
a long interim, the men of ’42 and °67 took it all a bit further. They
delved deeper into what their hearts hold, and there’sa lotin there. The
spirit triumphed.

During their memorial service in Lee Chapel, as members of *42
took turns reciting the names of classmates fallen in World War II, and
since, prayerful meditation would give way to fond recollection as one
man or another broke into a smile at the mention of someone not there,
someone possibly not thought about for years.

Equally moving were the words and atmosphere in ’67’s seminar
on Viet Nam. Some who spoke did so from depths that pain them still.
Some had never shared their experiences before. It seldom happens
that things get this real ata reunion. Notall the results were pretty, but
all were beautiful—and unforgettable.

As far as we could tell, the men of °42 and ’67 enjoyed all their
celebrating, too. Our feeling is that these two particular reunions were
rarities, finally bringing some graduates home in ways they hadn’t
expected or even realized were possible.

We hope we made you feel welcome, gentlemen. You proved
Thomas Wolfe wrong, for you did come home again. Please keep
coming back. You enrich our lives.

—Barry Machado, Professor of History
—W. Patrick Hinely, ’73

 

| PAGE 22/THE

GAZETTE ¢ |

 

 

 

 

 

 

disappointment. I told you,
and you didn’t fix it.”

But, Dobyns said, there
has been an improvement,
and “quality is becoming an
American standard.”

Dobyns blamed govern-
ment and politics for the
problems in America, and he
stressed that education is the
most important factor in com-
batting this decline in the
coming years.

Concluding with a quote
from Theodor Geisel, a.k.a.
Dr. Seuss, Dobyns said, “We
can do and we’ve got to
do...better.”

SCATTERED THROUGH-
OUT THE REST of the
weekend were meetings of
the Alumni Board of Directors
and the Law School Associa-
tion, parties for alumni and
guests, and seminars that once
again drew record numbers.
The seminars varied in
theme, but each presented a
particularly relevant topic or
memory for all who attended.
lhe Class of ’42 experienced
life back in the classroom just
as it was 50 years ago in the
relatively unchanged environs

ses

 

 

 

 

of Robinson 6. ‘There also
was a seminar on the environ-
ment, which included Ronald
W. Abrams, ’72, ecological
consultant, among others.
Dobyns provided his exper-
tise in a seminar on politics
and the media, titled “Who
Really Elects Our Leaders?”
Current student leaders
addressed the alumni in a
panel discussion on W&L
Today, and two other semi-
nars looked at the high-
charged topics of “Reform in
the Warsaw Pact Nations” and
“Vietnam: An Oral History.”

Undoubtedly the high-
light of the weekend was
Friday evening’s explosive
unveiling of “Old George,”
who stands atop Washington
Hall once again. ‘The new
“Old George” is a bronze
replica (painted white) of the
original, made from a mold
that was cast from the original.
The original was exquisitely
restored by sculptor Branko
Medenica of Birmingham,
Ala. Medenica lectured on
the restoration process on
Friday afternoon.

The unveiling was pre-
ceded by cocktails, a buffet
dinner, and music. ‘Then, the
crowd of alumni and guests
gathered on the Front Lawn
and watched as spotlights lit
up the top of Washington
Hall, where Old George was
unveiled, surrounded by
exploding fireworks.

ON SATURDAY MORN-
ING, the annual joint meeting
of the Law School Association
and the Alumni Board was
held in Lee Chapel, where
reunion classes announced their
special gifts to the University.

The Class of 1965 an-
nounced its Fellowship
Achievement Award to three
faculty members to fund their
special projects devoted to
teaching. ‘The faculty mem-
bers are Kevin Green, profes-
sor of accounting, who will be
doing research on developing
a system of international ac-
counting; Ken Ruscio, asso-
ciate dean of the commerce
school, who will be develop-
ing a course on leadership;
and Tom Whaley, professor of
computer science, who will
use the grant to purchase com-
puter software for use in his
classes.

The Class of 1967 an-
nounced a gift of $170,000 to
the University. Jay Turner,
speaking for the class, said the
gift will go toward establishing
a need-based scholarship that
will make the W&L educa-
tion available to students who
otherwise might not be able to
afford it.

And then there was the
gift of the Class of 1942. Given
with the simple request that
the funds be used by the Uni-
versity to further pursue its
academic mission, the gift was
the largest in reunion history,
a staggering $2,600,425.85. In
expressing his gratitude at the
gift, President John D. Wilson
said, “We thank you for this
record-shattering gift. You
have made this sacrifice for
one thing larger than us, and
we thank you for vesting such
a great confidence in your
University.”

THREE W&L GRADL-
ATES who have made special
contributions to their alma
mater were also recognized
during the assembly on Satur-
day morning. Distinguished
Alumnus Awards were
presented to C. Dubose
Ausley, 59, James W.
Jennings Jr., 65, °72L, and
William C. Washburn, *40.

Ausley has been president
of the top-rated ‘Tallahassee
law firm of Ausley,
McMullen, McGehee, et. al.
since 1981. He also is
chairman of the Second
Judicial Circuit of Florida
Nominating Commission and
of the U.S. Circuit Judge
Nominating Commission for
the Fifth and 11th Circuits.
Ausley has served on the
Washington and Lee Alumni
Board and is a current
member of the Washington
Society and the Capital Funds
Campaign Parents Committe.

Jennings, a former
president of the Virginia
Association of ‘Trial Lawyers,
is a partner in the Roanoke,
Va., law firm of Woods, Rogers
and Hazelgrove. He has
served Washington and Lee
as class agent, alumni chapter
president, Alumni Career
Assistance Program volunteer,
Annual Fund chairman, Alumni
Board member, Law Council
member, Washington Society
member, and vice chairman of
the Campaign Law School
Committee.

Washburn has served the
alumni of Washington and
Lee for over 30 years, coming
back to Lexington in 1958
after working for the Gulf
States Paper Corp. He was
executive secretary of the
Alumni Association for a
quarter of a century. Under

 

Page 22: (topleft) Beanies were againinfashionat Reunion
Weekend as (bottom left) many old friends in the Class of 42
exchanged talltales; Page 23 (clockwise from top): Reunionsalso
meant big cocktail parties in the Warner Center, the good music of
Roger Day, ’85, and proud parents with baby pictures.

 

* THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 23

 

J

 

 

 

 

Receiving 1992 Distinguished Alumnus Awards were (from left)
James Jennings, ’65, ’72L; C. Dubose Ausley, °59; and William

Washburn, '40.

his leadership, the number of
W&L alumni chapters more
than doubled and the
University’s reunion program
was greatly expanded. He
retired in 1982, but quickly
unretired to become associate
director of development. He
served in that capacity for six
more years during which time
he was also Washington and
Lee’s first coach of the
women’s tennis team from
1986 to 1988.

CHANGES IN LEADER-
SHIP ALSO were announced
during the assembly on Satur-
day morning. Waller T’. Dud-
ley, 74, °79L, of Alexandria,
Va., became president of the
Alumni Association. Charles
‘T. McCord III, ’63, of Houston,
was named vice president.
Elected to four-year terms
as directors of the association
were R.K. Barton III, ’63, of
Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.;
Donald W. Weir Jr., °72, of
Birmingham, Ala.; Alexa A.

Salzman, ’89, of San Francisco.

'T. Talbot Bond, ’51, of Balti-
more; and E. Neal Cory II, ’77,
of Louisville, Ky.;

Walter D. Kelley Jr., °77,
*81L, of Norfolk, Va., became
the new president of the Law
School Alumni Association at
its special meeting during the
April dedication of the Powell
Archives. Charles B. ‘Tomm,
68, °75L, of Flat Rock, N.C.,

was named the new vice presi-
dent. ‘The new directors are
Charles M. Berger, ’68L, of
Charlotte, N.C.; Alfred J.T.
Byrne, 65, *68L, of Washing-
ton, D.C.; William R. Goodell,
*80L, of Altanta; ‘Theodore D.
Grosser, ’77L, of Cincinnati;
and Patricia A. Van Allan,
*80L, of Houston.

‘The Reunion Bowl was
presented to the class of 1942,
which in addition to its gift
had the largest percentage (40
percent) of its members
registered for the weekend.
‘The Reunion ‘Trophy was
given to the class of 1982 for
having the greatest number of
participants registered (104 of
its members were on hand for
the weekend).

 

 

A Reunion Memory

by Marshall Johnson, °42

t has been said that you can’t go home again. But the Class
of 1942, beset at its start by World War II and in its golden years
by economic uncertainty, has proven that adage wrong.

From California (Jack Barrie, Larry Bradford, Tom Cox) and
Canada (Charlie Lanier) to right in Lexington (Col. Bob Hunter,
Bobbie Woolfenden) and nearby Goshen (Dr. Phil Wilhite), they
made it home again, 57 strong—S4 survivors of half a century
since their scheduled graduation date, and the widows of three
who were struck down short of their reunion goal. Neither rain,
nor rain, nor more rain, nor even more rain could slow them from
their appointed rounds.

It was a tribute to the leadership and tenacity of Ed Boyd
and Fred Pitzer, who began their preparation for this golden
anniversary celebration even before the 45th had ended in 1987,
Step by step, they put it together with the aid of the Alumni
Office, the Office of Development, and the support of a com-
mittee that took inspiration from their enthusiasm.

Clyde “The Glide” Smith of the imaginative mind came up
with idea after idea, which were incorporated into the scheduled
program. Bob Campbell made one mistake—he asked whether
we'd duplicate the class letters of the 40th reunion. He was put
in charge, and the result was the 1992 Reunion Yearbook,
arguably the best of its kind put together by a 50th reunion class.

Betty Lewis, whose husband Dan would have been in the
forefront of the effort had he lived, volunteered to contact widows
of departed classmates. Fourteen responded with letters their
husbands might have written, and three came to the reunion.

Augmenting the committee were the spear carriers—Bob
Walker, Bob Vaughan, Bob Wersel, Jack Fisher, Marshall John-
son—as all things came together.

Ed Boyd had what he considered a lofty fundraising goal of
$1 million as the class reunion gift to the University. Thanks toa
big lift from the late Jim Woosley, he was close within a month of
the reunion. But he got some late small gifts and two block-
busters from Hank Woods and Bob Root that lifted the total to a
reunion record $2,600,425.85. Ed was moved almost to tears as
he presented the ceremonial check to President Wilson.

While the weather was atrocious, the University’s standby
plans saw that everything went off without too many hitches.
Even Old George got his new shape Friday night to the sound
and glitter of fireworks against a leaden sky.

But, to a greater degree, the 50th reunion of the Class of
1942 was these memories:

 

@ ‘The weather again. Charlie Lanier left Canada with the
temperatures in the 80s and arrived in Lexington to 50-degree
temperatures that didn’t get a whole lot warmer.

@ Jean (Mrs. Hal) Morris casting about for “dinner on your
own” Thursday night only to find that everyone who was there
would be eating together anyway. “What a great idea!”

@ ‘he Friday morning memorial service to honor the 110
classmates who have died, including the 16 who made the su-
preme sacrifice in World War II. It was a moving experience in
which more than a few tears were shed.

@ ‘Ihe excellently conceived history lecture, “The Irony
of World War II,” by Professor Barry Machado, in which 1) Hank
Woods wanted to know why he was asked a sports question—his

 

 

_—

“ PAGE 24/ THE

 

 

 

GAZETTE @ |

ue

 

— .- Sa ee

St

és al

 

—————

answer won't quite fit in a family magazine; 2) Professor
Machado tried to pin down U.S. District Judge Tom Clark for an
opinion on his secondary lecture theme, the guilt of a history
writer with whose ideas he disagreed (‘Tom showed basketball
agility in sidestepping a direct answer); and 3) Ed Boyd pre-
sented Fred Pitzer with a W&L watch, producing one for the
books from Fred—“I’m speechless.”

®@ The biggest casualty of the weather, the cancellation of
the traditional Goshen Pass picnic. Not only was the class forced
‘ndoors, but it even got split, with part winding up in another
indoor activity. But Goshen Pass’s loss was the University Book-
store’s gain. Wives of the Class of 1942 were more than liberal in
their purchases, as several members can testify.

@ The party with the faculty and the ensuing dinner in
the Warner Center on Friday night produced these moments: 1)
Many in the class reminiscing with an old friend and former
WEL professor William “Buck” Buchanan, "41, and the Beta
contingent converging on former Virginia governor Linwood
Holton, ’44; 2) Sigma Chis Lance Ditto, Bill Jennings, and Paul
Zumkeller and their wives comparing the girls of the 1940s (Bob
Wersel and Phil Wilhite missed that session); and 3) ‘The stir
created by the presence of “Today” co-host Katie Couric, whose
husband, Jay Monahan, ’77, was in town for his reunion.

@ The inimitable musical wizardry of Paul ‘Thomas once
again on display. An audience of five or six grew to between 30
and 40 as “P.T.” held forth for almost an hour on the piano at the
Holiday Inn.

@ The annual alumni meeting on Saturday morning gave
us these memories: 1) Ed Boyd electrifying the crowd with his
reunion fund total, an event almost missed by many of the wives
who were stranded at the motel by one of the few bus mixups of
the weekend; 2) The Class of 1942 winning the Reunion ‘Trophy
for the greatest percentage of
returning members; and 3)
‘The entertainment by Southern
Comfort and JubiLee. (On the
latter, in the words of one
alumnus, “I never would have
graduated with them around.”)

@ Riding to the luncheon
with Wally and Jane Reynolds,
and Wally recalling how he
crawled on the ground to avoid
detection from the VMI sentry

the night in the bunk of an
AWOL cadet. Gus Essig said
he did the same thing for
nothing, but it was for the ane Pay to the
friend of a friend. order of

@ Ground-breaking exercises for two new fraternity
houses, and visits to refurbished houses of others. A general
feeling the University has done a superb job of fixing up disaster
areas.

@ ‘The annual reunion visit to the country home of former
journalism professor O.W. “Tom” Riegel, this one made by Tom
and Wilma Garten and Marshall Johnson.

@ ‘he banquet, a huge success at the Lexington Golf and
Country Club, where: 1) Bob Walker explained to Bob Wersel
the origin of names of House Mountain (from the right direction
it looks like an A-frame), Hogback Mountain (whose look is self-
explanatory), and Jump Mountain (from which the Indian prin-
cess jumped to join her dead lover); 2) JubiLee, the greatest
single argument for coeducation at W&L, performed to a rousing
reception (Fred Pitzer got the special treatment this time—it was
Ed Boyd’s at a committee meeting two years ago); and 3) there
was the great count, which showed about a 3-to-2 margin for
those wearing tuxes over those who didn’t.

@ ‘The final hours when four fraternity members, who
shall remain nameless, in search of activity at their fraternity well
after 11 p.m. (“They'll be as welcome as a bunch of old goats,”
said one of the wives.)

“Our college friendships soon must sever ... and fade as
does the dying day.” ‘That was the guiding principle behind our
reunion, but it was no more true in fact than “you can’t go home
again.” The Class of 1942 friendships, forged like steel in the
horrors of war and the bonds of love, will never fade. It was
almost as if a benevolent God, after three days of rain and gloom,
looked down on getaway day and brought forth the sunshine to
usher in what is not an ending, but a new beginning.

box after earning $2 for spending Rs The Class of 1942
50th Reunion Fund

 

@ ‘Tom Cox walking all

 

the way back to the motel from
the luncheon, by design and |
not by accident. Gus Essig 74 =memo

 

Sprinting across the campus to
check on where the bus was
Supposed to be. He missed at
One spot but remained there
and was picked up.

signature

 

7 Seq ae ~ ers tes ene tees
E / ee a Se ee ee ee, ee
Back row(fromleft): Edgar Boyd, Fred Pitzer, Marshall Johnson; front row from left) Jack Fisher, Clyde

Smith, Betty Lewis, Bobby Vaughan, Bob Walker, Bob Campbell.

 

 

 

na | &® THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 2 !

 

 

 

 

Hall of Fame to induct five Washington and Lee greats

 

 

ive Washington and Lee

t athletic standouts from
the sports of tennis, lacrosse,

football, and track comprise
the class of 1992 inductees to
the Washington and Lee
Athletic Hall of Fame.

Members of the quintet
are Forest Fletcher, long-time
track and cross country coach;
Bill Clements, ’50, All-America
lacrosse player; ‘Terry Fohs,
62, All-America football
player; and tennis doubles
tandem Ben Johns, ’78, and
Stewart Jackson, ’80.

 

averaging nearly 10 initial
hits per game. As a junior,
Fohs was a co-captain of the
team, again led the team in
tackles, and averaged almost
15 tackles per game. He
matched those feats his
senior year, helping W&L to
an undefeated season and
the Washington Touchdown
Club’s trophy as the best
small college team in the
nation.

He was named the Vir-
ginia Small College Football

 

 

All five will be honored
during Hall of Fame Week-
end, Sept. 11-13. The annual
Hall of Fame banquet will be
held the evening of Sept. 11
in Evans Dining Hall.

Short biographical sketches
on this year’s inductees follow:

FOREST FLETCHER,

an outstanding track athlete in
his day, brought his measure-
able talents as a coach and leader

 

Johns andJackson

 

Player of the Year in 1960
and he earned the same honor
in 1961. He was also named
All-State both years, and he
was selected to the 1960 and
1961 Associated Press Little
All-America teams.

BEN JOHNS AND
STEWARTJACKSON
were tennis standouts both
individually and as a doubles
team for the very successful

 

 

 

to Washington and Lee and
served the University for nearly 30 years.

Fletcher began his athletic career at
the University of Notre Dame, where he
was a friend and teammate of the legen-
dary Knute Rockne. Fletcher was captain
of the track team and a champion hurdler
and sprinter, setting five indoor world
records. He went on to compete in the
1912 Olympic Games in Stockholm,
Sweden.

Fletcher coached in high school for
two years before coming to Washington
and Lee in 1914, where he taught
physical education and coached track. In
1917-18, he organized W&L students into
an Ambulance Unit that served in France
in World War I.

After the war, Fletcher returned to
W&L to serve as track and cross country
coach, and head of the physical education
department for 22 years. He coached
W&L to two South Atlantic champion-
ships in cross country and to a state cham-
pionship and Southern Conference
championship in track.

BILL CLEMENTS, the first All-
America lacrosse goalie in school history,
was a leader of the W&L lacrosse teams

of 1947-50, earning All-America honors in
1949 and 1950.

Clements was among a handful of
students that reorganized lacrosse in 1947
after a five-year absence. Lacrosse imme-
diately was one of W&L’s more success-
ful post-war sports, putting together a 5-2
record in that first year, despite being
primarily student-coached and rarely
fielding enough players to practice.

Clements won the coveted C. Mark-
land Kelley ‘Trophy in 1950 as the nation’s
top goaltender.

TERRY FOHS, dubbed “the littlest
All-American,” typified the new spirit of
football at Washington and Lee, leading
the Generals to success in the early 1960s
and garnering a few honors of his own
along the way.

Fohs probably was the lightest line-
backer in college football of his day, or
any other for that matter, checking in at 5-7
and 145 pounds. In his four years at W&L,
Fohs consistently was W&L’s top tackler.

As a freshman in 1958, he led the
varsity squad in tackles and was named
the team’s “roughest player.” He led the
team in tackles again his sophomore year,

W&L teams of 1977-80. In
those four years, W&L won
four Old Dominion Athletic Conference
championships, finished in the top four at
the Division III national championships,
and captured an individual doubles title in
1978 when Johns and Jackson teamed for
the title.

Johns won the ODAC No. 1 singles
title in 1977 and 1978, earning the league’s
Player of the Year Award both of those
years. He teamed with Jackson to win
the No. 1 doubles crown in both of those
years, as well. He was named an All-
American in singles in 1978 (W&L’s first
ever tennis singles All-American), and an
All-American in doubles in 1977 and 1978,
when he and Jackson reached the
national finals.

Jackson won four ODAC singles
crowns and four ODAC doubles crowns.
Like Johns, he was twice named ODAC
Player of the Year. In addition to his
doubles exploits with Johns, Jackson
earned All-America honors in singles in
1979 (quarterfinalist) and 1980 (semifinal-
ist). He earned All-America honors in
doubles three times, including 1977 and
1978 with Johns and 1980 with Pete
Lovell, when they advanced to the na-
tional semifinals.

 

r oe

 

PAGE 26/ THE GAZETTE

|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Manning wins lst Mollenhoff Award

journalism department has selected

Joshua I, Manning, a junior from Rock-
ville Center, N.Y., as the recipient of the
first annual Clark R. Mollenhoff Award.

The award, established by his widow
Jane S. Mollenhoff, memorializes the
extraordinary accomplishments of one of
the nation’s most outstanding and widely
respected journalists. Mollenhoff taught
at W&L from 1976 until his death in 1991.

7 he Washington and Lee University

Manning is using the award’s stipend
to travel to Israel, where he is conducting
research on the state of the Israeli media
for his senior honors thesis. Manning’s
visit to Israel will coincide with the late
June national elections and his thesis will
focus on studying how the Israeli media
cover this important event.

The Mollenhoff Award recognizes
an outstanding journalism major at W&L
who shows unusual journalistic promise

WA&L Fraternity Wins MTV Contest

strongest extracurricular activities. For instance, what else at

ip-synching is becoming one of Washington and Lee’s
W&L has won two national—yes, nationa/—champion-

ships in the last three years.

Five freshmen pledges from the Sigma Phi Epsilon
fraternity at W&L—Drew Hammond, Phil Harries, Kris
Fegenbush, Michael Neal, and Robert Stewart—won the 1992
MTV SAMS Rock-Alike contest held in Daytona Beach, Fla., in

March as part of the
MTV Spring Break

by providing a stipend to enable that
student to undertake a project of profes-
sional or academic merit. ‘The annual
competition is open to junior journalism
majors and judging is based on two fac-
tors—the student’s academic and journa-
listic accomplishments, and a proposed
academic or professional project that
would be benefited by, or made possible
by, the stipend that accompanies the
award.

“It started off as a big joke,” said Hammond, who in the act
is the epitome of un-sexiness. “They didn’t think I'd actually do
it. I said I’d do it before I realized what I was getting into.”

What Hammond and his fraternity brothers were getting into

 

Weekend. The five-
some—a.k.a., “Stick Boy
and the Catwalkers”—
earned W&L its second
lip-synch national cham-
pionship in the last
three years. The Fiji
Love Natives of Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity
won in 1990.

Stick Boy’s rendi-
tion of the song “I’m
Too Sexy” by the group
Right Said Fred wowed
the celebrity panel of
judges, which included
Miss USA Shannon a
Marketic, John Corbett
of the popular CBS
television series
“Northern Exposure,”

and Corky Nemec of the Fox television series “Parker Lewis
Can’t Lose.” The W&L team defeated a team from the
University of Missouri in the finals. In addition to winning a

 

Stick Boyand the Catwalkers and friends:(kneeling) Drew Hammond, (standing,
fromleft) Michael Neal, Robert Stewart, Phil Harries, Kris Fegenbush, Shannon
Marketic,John Corbett,and Corky Nemec.

was the ride of their lives. After performing in the W&L contest,
their tape was selected from hundreds of others as one of the
eight national finalists. ‘The eight teams were narrowed to the
two finalists, who then competed against each other on a special

edition of the MTV
game show “Lip
Service.” The W&L
group’s parody was a big
hit with the crowd
gathered at Daytona
Beach, and Hammond
said having the right
song and the right
approach was a big plus
for them.

“The song was the
thing,” he said. “Plus,
we were really the only
group that did some-
thing humorous. We
were mocking the song.

“When we were
first practicing, we
thought it would either
be a big flop ora hit. I
guess it turned out to
be a hit.”

Hammond said the group didn’t plan to win, just to have a
good time. He said those will be the memories he takes with him.
“We got a lot of great support from our friends and the frater-

 

eee

trophy and various gifts from Coca-Cola for themselves, a check
for $5,000 will be given to Students Against Muscular Dystrophy
(SAMS) in the school’s and fraternity’s name.

The idea for the song and the act came at the lunch table
one day a couple of weeks before W&L held its annual Rock-
Alike Lip Synch Contest. Hammond got volunteered for the
lead “syncher” role largely based on the fact that he wasn’t at the
lunch table that day.

nity,” he said. “All of us agreed it was the best experience we've
ever had. We just got a chance to take a weekend off, go down
to Daytona Beach, and have a good time, and that’s what we did.”

They also won a national championship, all of which begs
the question: What about next year?

“We’ve performed it a couple of times for friends, but we’re
ready to end it now,” Hammond said. “But we’re anxious to get
another act together for next year.”

 

|

THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 27 @ |

 

 

aid

 

 

CRC eliminated in May faculty vote

he Confidential Review
Committee, a student-

faculty committee orga-

 

 

nized to deal with sensitive
cases of harassment on campus,
was eliminated in a faculty
vote in May and was replaced
by a new judicial process that
emphasizes handling prob-
lems on an informal level.

The elimination of the
CRC ends months of self-
study of the University’s pro-
cess for reviewing cases of
physical misconduct and of-
fensive speech.

The result of the faculty
vote is primarily twofold: First,
a student-faculty hearing board,
comprised of four students
(appointed by the student
Executive Committee) and
four faculty members (ap-

 

pointed by the dean of the
college), will be set up to ad-
judicate matters of physical
sexual misconduct, including
rape and sexual assault. A
formal mediation tage is built

New co-ed choral group to replace
Women’s Chorus, Glee Club |

ashington and Lee will add a new mixed choral group
\VV/ to its choral family to replace the departure of two of
the University’s current single-sex choruses.

The University previously had operated with five singing
groups: Southern Comfort, which is a small group of select men’s
singers; JubiLee, the women’s counterpart to Southern Comfort;
the Glee Club, which is the large-group men’s chorus; the
Women’s Chorus, the women’s counterpart to the Glee Club;
and the University Chorus, the large group for mixed voices.
Students received academic credit for participating in University
Chorus, the Glee Club, and the Women’s Chorus.

Under the new format, the University will add the Chamber
Singers, a 12-man, 12-woman choral group to be selected from
sophomore, junior, and senior members of the University
Chorus. Although the Glee Club and the Women’s Chorus will
be dissolved, the University Chorus will be expanded, while
Southern Comfort and JubiLee will retain their current member-
ship.

Dean of the College John W. Elrod said the restructuring of
the choral groups at W&L had been under consideration by the
music department for the last 18 months. He said that several
factors contributed to the decision:

“Over the past few years, student singers have begun to
express a clear preference for participation in the University
Chorus as opposed to the single-sex groups,” he said. “It became
apparent that we would be unable to sustain five quality singing
groups in our choral program. We are confident that the level of
performance we expect of ourselves will be well-maintained
among the four groups.”

 

into the process and the proce-
dures are designed to be non-
legalistic. Second, misconduct
concerning offensive speech
would be placed in the juris-
diction of the dean of students.

David Howison, dean of
students, told 7he Ring-tum Phi
that he may refer extreme
cases to the Student Conduct
Committee if they could not
be handled by informal means.
Those informal means, Howi-
son said, could include coun-
seling, mediation by members
of the student affairs staff, or
referring a matter to a faculty
member to help resolve the
dispute.

The University also
adopted a new statement on
misconduct that emphasizes
the obligation of all students
to observe “decent, civil be-
havior.” ‘The complete state-
ment follows:

“Admission to the
Washington and Lee com-
munity carries with it certain
obligations concerning per-
sonal conduct. Some of these
obligations are specifically
covered by the Honor System.
Other, less specific obligations
concern the way we treat each
other. Lee described the ex-
pectation at Washington Col-
lege as ‘gentlemanly behav-
ior.’ ‘Today, we interpret this
to mean decent, civil behavior
designed to encourage mutual
respect for our individual dif-
ferences, desires, and ways of
thinking.

“At Washington and Lee
we expect an atmosphere of
civility and mutual respect to
prevail. Instances of uncivil
behavior involving students
are most effectively dealt with
in personal and informal ways,
not by formal and judicial
procedures. ‘Therefore,
members of the Washington
and Lee community who
believe themselves to have
been objects of such behavior
should seek reconciliation by
personal consultation with
friends, faculty, or others, who
may intervene in the dispute.

 

PAGE 28/ THE

ll

Instances of uncivil behavior
involving students may be
reported to the Dean of
Students, who will take
appropriate action by
resolving the matter, referring
the matter to the Mediator, or,
in appropriate cases, to the
Student Conduct Commit-
tee.”

The CRC was estab-
lished in 1987 to handle
sensitive student conduct
issues, but since then, no
speech issues have come
before the committee and the
committee heard only three
cases in its lifetime. Those
low numbers may have been,
in part, the result of a lack of
student understanding of the
CRC. A recent survey showed
that less than a third of the
undergraduates understood
the role of the CRC.

Under criticism in recent
years, the CRC undertook a
self-study this year that con-
cluded in February. The self-
study produced a “Principle
of Civility and Decency,”
which, in effect, would have
empowered the CRC to sus-
pend or dismiss students for
verbal harassment. ‘That self-
study report was then passed
on to the Student Affairs Com-
mittee, which recommended
the abolition of the CRC and
offered, in its place, the estab-
lishment of the Student-
Faculty Hearing Board to
judge matters of physical
sexual misconduct.

‘The SAC proposal was
amended to include the
handling of verbal harassment
by personal and informal means,
and it was that proposal the
faculty approved.

“My primary concern was
that the faculty approve a
policy that students respect
and feel is reasonable,” Howi-
son told 7he Phi. “I think we’ve
achieved that.”

 

 

GAZETTE @ |

J

 

 

 

 

Carter: America must meet challenge
of greatness in new world order

immy Carter, the 39th
a President of the United

States, told an overflow
crowd at the Warner Center
that this country is in a unique
position as the lone super-
power in the new world order.
He called on America and its
people to meet the challenge
of greatness around the world
and across the street.

Carter spoke at W&L in
April as part of the Robert
Lee Telford Distinguished
Lecturer Series. The Telford
Series was established by the
late Robert L. Telford, ’22, to
support the visit of men and
women of national and
international stature “whose
voices prominently shape the
Policies and events of our
time in and out of govern-
ment.” Carter was the second
lecturer in the series, which
began in January with an
address from Oscar Arias,
former president of Costa

CS

Rica and winner of the Nobel
Peace Prize.

Carter, who spoke for 40
minutes and then answered
questions for another half-
hour after that from the crowd
of over 2,200, spoke of a new
world order, one that should
not be about power struggles
but about struggles for peace,
for understanding, and for
hope. And the United States
and its citizens should be the
leader in these struggles.

“This new world order is
just dawning, and you and I
and others have a responsibil-
ity to say, ‘OK, what should
our nation’s role be in shaping
the world?’ ” he said. “Do you
have a responsibility about
this? I think so. It’s not just
Bill Clinton, it’s not just
George Bush, it’s not just
John Major in London. It’s us.
We’re the ones who have a
voice in saying what should
our country be.”

Freshman dies in fall near Amherst

isa Anne Corwin, a

Ee at Washington

and Lee, died May 18
from injuries suffered during a
fall while picnicking with
friends in the George Washing-
ton National Forest in Amherst
County.

A native of Olympia,
Wash., and the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Alan Corwin, 62,
Corwin and three other W&L
freshmen were swimming and
picnicking at Staton Creek Falls near Amherst when Corwin
slipped and fell 50 feet down the falls.

“The falls are really quite dangerous,” said Duval Doss,
investigator for the Amherst County Sheriff's Department. “With
all the rain we had, there was a lot more water moving over them.
It’s just a tragic accident.”

“The University community is saddened by this terrible
tragedy,” said John D. Wilson, University president. “Lisa
Corwin was a fine young woman. and we truly grieve for her
family and friends.”

Corwin was an active member of Hillel, the Jewish student
organization on campus. She played clarinet in the University
Wind Ensemble, touring with that group through Germany and
Austria earlier this spring. She also was a member of W&L club
softball team.

Academically, Corwin was flourishing. An intended physics
and German major, she was named a winner of the Jim Stump
Prize in German for exceptional achievement in German. Corwin
was named to the Dean’s List for the winter term.

‘The University held a memorial service in Corwin’s honor
on May 22 in Lee Chapel, in which friends remembered Corwin
as selfless, caring, and blessed with an indomitable spirit.

“A famous literary heroine is described as possessing ‘the
irresistible universal tendency to find sweet pleasure somewhere
which pervades all life from the humblest to the highest,’ ” said
Dennis Manning, dean of freshmen, in his remarks at the Corwin
memorial service. “.... That is what I will always cherish about
Lisa—how she so naturally, radiantly lived here. She was deter-
mined not to horde sweet pleasure for herself, but rather to share
it freely and happily with all of her friends.”

Heather Loveland, who was with Corwin when she fell, also
spoke at the memorial service, using the words from one of
Corwin’s essays to best describe her friend.

“Romanticism strikes a chord in me that I thought was not
there,” Corwin wrote. “I know my experiences in college seem
like a romantic fairy tale to many people. I am certainly not im-
mune from the charm of the concept of college. I’m far from
home meeting all sorts of different people and experiencing many
new things. I appreciate romanticism perhaps even more because of
this, or perhaps I appreciate college even more through a romantic per-
spective. Ironically enough, I’m ready to go home....It’s not per-
fect and it’s not always wonderful, but it’s undoubtedly worth it.”

The Corwin family has begun efforts to endow a scholarship
fund in Lisa’s name. Those interested in making contributions
to the fund can contact the Office of Development.

 

 

 

 

 

* THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 29 # |

 

 

 

 

al

ae Sons and Daughters of Alumni

 

 

 

a i
i Lh pes —_
7 |
,

Bachelor’s degree recipients with alumni relatives: William H. West Jr.,’72 (Bill Ill); John J. Fox Jr., ’57 (Andrew); Donald W. Harper, ’57 (Brian); Richard E.
Wilbourn IT, ’58 (Garnett); Walk C. Jones Ill, ’55 (Will); Richard L. Lawrence, ’64L (Julia); Edward A. Brown ’62 (Doug); Craig S. Crockard, ’64 (Mignon);
Jeffrey L. Willis, *75L (Jeff); John H. Rutherford, ’66 (Laura); V. Cassel Adamson Jr., ’65, ’68L (Louise); Dr. Charlie C. Flippen, ’64 (Carli).

 

 

 

CSP NS

a

1
Bachelor’s degree recipients with alumni relatives: Charles M. Patrick III, ’82, and Charles M. Patrick Jr., 55 (Michael); Jesse H. Webb Jr., ’59 (Sara); William A.
Schroeder Ill, ’66L (Monte); Eben D. Warner III, ’65 (Morgan); Barry M. Fox, ’60 (Elizabeth); Edward L. Bishop Ill, ’68 (Kimberly); G. Ashley Allen, ’65
(Winthrop); David G. Noble, ’58 (Jennifer); J. William McClintock III, ’53 (Emily); Robert W. Phillips, ’66 (Nick); Hullihen W. Moore, ’65 (Frank).

& oeate

~

 

 

 

a Fr F
Lj “4

i

. -

 

a

 

Bachelor's degree recipients with alumni relatives: Randall L. Prior, ’67 (Chris); J. Alfred Broaddus Jr.’61 (John); Thomas W. Penn, ’74 (Courtney); Charles W.
Jones, ’66 (Charles); Howard L. Hansberry I11,’70 (William); Thomas A. Salsbury, ’56 (Dwight); Lawson W. Turner III, ’72L (Mary Frances); R.K. Barton If,
63 (Ann); Edward F. Halsell Jr., ’59 (Karen); William C. Norman Jr., ’56 (Allen); Chries R. Beall, ’56,’°59L (Amy); Timothy A. Vanderver Jr., ’65 (Tim).

 

 

 

[  @ PAGE30/THE GAZETTE @ |

l

 

et

Graduating Sons and Daughters of Alumni

 

 

YN

ey

 

Rachelor’s degree recipients with alumni relatives: Edward S. Croft III, ’64 (Gabrey); Clifford Foster III, ’61,’64L (Muriel); Carroll Klingelhofer Il, ’65, ’68L
(Pete): John K. Hopkins, ’67 (Whitney); Richard H. Daesener, 66 (Heather); M. Daniel Miller III, ’59 (Duncan); Thomas C. Damewood, ’51, 53L (Carol);
Howard W. Martin Jr., 64 (Brad); Charles D. Hurt Jr., °59 (Ashley); Corbet F. Bryant Jr.,’68 (Elise); John Y. Pearson Jr., ’64 (Ellen); David C. Swann, '63
(Chris).

 

 

 

ie

Bachelor’s degree recipients with alumni relatives: Earl M.
McGowin Jr., 65 (Mena); W. Buckner Ogilvie Jr. 64
(Courtney Warren); Charles C. Kannapell, °57 (John);
Stephen M. Henry, 65 (Chambers); William S. Merrick
Jr., 55 (Wendy).

Seal

 

 

 

 

Bachelor’s degree recipient with alumni relatives: Anthony J. Frank, ’59 (Jon). Law degree recipiens with alumni relative: James L. Surface, ’63, ’65L
(Susanna Elizabeth).

 

 

|

&® THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 31 ¢ L

 

 

 

LAW NEWS

 

 

 

From the LSAA President...

he Seven-Year Man—er, person—is back. After years of
looking elsewhere for law school, W&L undergraduates
are once again crossing the ravine in substantial numbers.
For the first time since 1979, the undergraduate college is the
law school’s primary feeder institution.

Although undergraduate applicants do not receive any
preference per se, the law school administration has long
wanted to increase the number of W&L degree holders who
enroll. According to Assistant Dean Susan Palmer, ’85L, the
admissions committee has great respect for the education
provided by W&L’s undergraduate academic programs. In
addition, “the W&L grade-point average means something,”
she says. “It has not been devalued through grade inflation.”

To be sure, former undergraduates are not taking over
the law school. Only 10 of the approximately 120 students in
the incoming class attended W&L. But the increase in seven-
year persons is good news for the entire University commu-
nity. ‘They help bridge the gulf between law students and
undergraduates. They also help introduce their peers to the
unique aspects of W&L, such as the Honor System and, in
another vein, the entertainment options in Metro Lex.

The special recognition given to W&L’s undergraduate
academic programs stems from the law school’s admissions
policy of examining individual situations rather than relying
on numerical guidelines.

‘The emphasis at W&L is distinctly personal. Ours is one
of the last law schools in the country to consider interviews
when making admissions decisions. Approximately one-half
of the entering class interviewed with a member of the admis-
sions committee before being accepted. These interviews are
conducted at the law school and on dozens of recruiting trips
across the country. You don’t have to be wealthy enough to

 

travel to Lexington to get
an interview. You simply
need the desire to become
actively involved in the
admissions process.

So what effect has this
personal approach had on
the numerical credentials
that are so important to the
rest of the world? The
answer is very positive.
According to U.S. News @
World Report, W&L is the
13th most selective law school in the country. Only one in
seven applicants is admitted. ‘This year’s entering class had a
median GPA of 3.54 and a median LSAT of 41 (approxi-
mately 670 on the old 800 scale). Between 1987 and 1992,
the median GPA has risen from the 77th to the 90th percentile.

When asked about these numbers, Assistant Dean
Palmer downplayed their significance. She stated, “The
credentials of our students are impressive, but they don’t
begin to tell the full story. | am more impressed by the fact
that the students are interesting individuals from diverse and
accomplished backgrounds. We seek students who will
actively participate in the academic and social affairs of the
law school. Fortunately, we are able to get them.”

‘The Law School Alumni Association supports the
admissions committee’s goals by funding three scholarships
that are awarded to students with exceptional promise. This
is money well invested. We have no doubt that once these
students become alumni, they too will reach back to help the
next generation of W&L lawyers.

Walter D. Kelley Jr., ’77, 81L
President, Law School Alumni Association

 

New Members of the Law Council

 

Alfred J.T. Byrne, ’65,68L
Washington, D.C.

Charles M. Berger, ’68L
Charlotte, N.C.

 

William R. Goodell, ’80L
Atlanta, Ga.

  

 

Theodore D. Grosser, ’75L

Cincinnati, Ohio

Patricia A. Van Allan, '80L

Houston, Texas

 

 

 

o,
>

% PAGE 32/THE GAZETTE ¢

hep

 

 

 

 

 

LAW NEWS

 

U.S. News rates W&L among best

he Washington and Lee School of Law was rated
among the top law schools in the country by U.S. News
& World Report in its 1992 guide to America’s best
graduate schools, which was released this spring.

W&L, which is ranked in the alphabetical listing of
19 schools that fell just below the ‘Top 25, is ranked in the
top quartile for the third year in a row. Grouped with W&L
in that alphabetical listing are North Carolina, William &
Mary, and Emory. Yale, Harvard, Stanford, Chicago, and
Columbia comprise the top five.

W&L, which was by far the smallest school ranked in
the first quartile, also ranks high in a number of important
benchmarks of quality. Although this information was not
published by the magazine, W&L has one of the very best
student-faculty ratios among all of the top law schools, and
in terms of resources per student, W&L compares favorably
with schools ranked in the top 10. W&L also ranks among
the most selective of the schools in the first quartile. Its
accepatance rate is 15.7 percent.

Randall P. Bezanson, dean of the school of law, said
the numbers are gratifying.

“This is a very good law school, and these numbers
do legitimize our claim to being one of the nation’s best
law schools,” he said. “But W&L’s qualities go above and
beyond these numbers. Our size affords us the wonderful
twin opportunities of an intimate education and a special
focus on writing. ‘These are the qualities that I think not
only typify Washington and Lee, but set it apart, as well.”

 

Henneman to
step down as
associate dean

dward O. “Ned” Hen-

neman, associate dean

of the W&L School of
Law under three different law
deans, stepped down from his
post as associate dean at the
end of spring term.

Henneman, who has
served in the law school admin-
istration since 1979, will be
succeeded by Professor Mark
Grunewald. Henneman will
return to full-time teaching
after taking a sabbatical during
the fall term.

Henneman, an associate
professor of law, has been at
Washington and Lee since
1972, starting first with the
development office, then
serving as an adjunct law
professor, and becoming a
full-time law school faculty
member in 1978.

In an interview in the
WEL Law News, Henneman
said students have changed

 

 

+ & THE GAZETTE/PAGE3 ©

 

 

somewhat during his tenure as
associate dean.

“wr

They’ve become less
willing to take stands in class,
to challenge things,” he told
the newspaper. “They are
much more driven (which
may be a function of the econ-
omy), but it seems to me they
are much more concerned with
writing down every pearl of
wisdom that escapes from a
faculty member’s mouth, and
they are less willing to take
chances in class, and argue,
and get into an academic
discussion. ‘They are much
more grade-oriented than they
used to be.”

Law awards announced at commencement

etsy Ennis Dulin, valedictorian of the law class of ’92, led a host of award

winners at the School of Law commencement exercises in May. Dulin, of

South Charleston, W.Va., received the John W. Davis Prize for Law as the
graduate with the highest cumulative grade-point average. Other top prizes went
to the following students:

BNA Law Student Award (most satisfactory scholastic progress in the final

year): Anne Elizabeth McInerney of McLean, Va.; Virginia Trial Lawyers
Association Award (effective trial advocacy): Michael Scott Carlson of Athens, Ga.;
Wilfred J. Ritz Award (excellence in Alderson Legal Assistance Program): Mary
Ellen Andrews of Washington, D.C.; Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. Commercial Law
Award (excellence in commercial law): John Harlan Mahaney II of St. Mary’s, W.
Va.; University Service Award (significant contribution to the University commu-
nity): Kelly Lynn Faglioni of Lexington, Va.; Frederic L. Kirgis Jr. International
Law Award (excellence in international law): Monte Ferris Bourjaily IV of
Alexandria, Va.; National Association of Women Lawyers Award (outstanding
woman law student): Melissa Edwina Amos of Roanoke, Va.; Ring-tum Phi Award
(service to the University): Robert Jeffery Kelsey of Colliersville, Tenn.; Public
Interest Law Grant (outstanding graduate entering public interest practice): Leslie
Paul Quezaire of Woodbridge, Va.

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI

NEWS

 

 

’

ey,

alr
ns

 

ALUMNI COLLEGE—Gathered on the Delta Queen are the following alumni and friends: (front row) Jim Farrar Jr.,
74, Hickory Fant, Dot Fant, Libba Robertson, Bud Robertson, C.P. Miles, Walt Harrod, ’41, °47L, Pat Stewart,
Marilyn McCormick; (second row) Wayne Fields, Virginia Huffman, Charlie Curl, ’40, Jacqueline Curl, Barbara Moody,
Jeanne Coulter, Louise Latture, Peter Butler, ’28; (standing) George Olmsted, Suzanne Olmsted, Charles Wilson, Vonnie
Frances, Jack McCormick, ’44, Gabe Chingary, Ann Biddle, Nancy Stillwagon, Carolyn Hyatt, Jerry Hyatt, ’62, Bob
Moody, ’49, ’51L, Frank Stillwagon, Jack Coulter, ’49L, Kitty Farrar, Bill Latture,’49, Brooks Saltsman, Sandy
Young, ’52, Sara Young, Jim Saltsman, ’39, Ann Frye, Walt Frye, ’45, and Dean Stewart, ’51L.

High-yield invest-

ments

The annual arrival of April
1 marks the beginning of
another yield season for W&L
alumni chapters. It’s that
time of year when chapters
hold special events, in the
lingo known as “yield parties,”
honoring prospective students
who have been offered admis-
sion to W&L’s Class of 1996.
Fourteen chapters scheduled
events this spring, including
Arkansas, Chattanooga, Miami,
Detroit, Northern New
Jersey, Houston, Louisville,
Dallas, Washington, D.C.,
Mid-South, Philadelphia,
Florida West Coast, Orange
County, and Southern Ohio.

The Arkansas chapter had
cocktails and dinner to honor
the prospective students and
special university guests, Presi-
dent and Mrs. John D. Wilson
and Richard B. Sessoms,
director of major gifts). In
Chattanooga, the special uni-
versity guest was Farris P.
Hotchkiss, ’58, vice president

eo

for university relations.

In Miami, the yield party
was held at the home of Laura
and chapter president Bill
Walker, 68, °71L. In Detroit,
the event was at the home of
Mary and chapter president
R.K. Barton III, 63. The
Houston event was at the
home of Suzanne and Alumni
Association Vice President
Charlie McCord, 63.

In Louisville, the home of
John P. Roy, ’64, served as
host site for the yield party,
while the Dallas reception
was held at the home of
chapter president Dwight H.
Emanuelson and his wife,
Claire. The Florida West
Coast reception was held at
the home of Nancy and John
Dinkel, ’61, ’64L, and the
Southern Ohio chapter held a
yield cookout at the home of
Peggy and chapter president
‘Ted Grosser, ’77L.

Be our guest

University representatives
attended a number of chapter

events in the spring, updating
alumni on Lexington and
W&L and entertaining them
with lectures. James D. Farrar
Jr., °74, director of alumni pro-
grams was a special guest at
the City Club of New Orleans
in March. Farrar also was a
special guest at the Birming-
ham chapter’s cocktail
reception, where he joined
Larry Peppers, dean of the
commerce school. Peppers

and Farrar also spoke to the
Montgomery chapter in April,

W&L politics professor
William Connelly was a guest
speaker at the Washington,
D.C., chapter’s luncheon at
the University Club in April,
Also, W&L professor of jour-
nalism Ron MacDonald spoke
at the Roanoke chapter’s May
luncheon at the Jefferson
Club on the topic of “Tab-
loidizing the Media.” And
W&L history professor Holt
Merchant pre-sented a talk on
Robert E. Lee at a New York
chapter event in May.

A. Stevens Miles Jr., 51
rector of the board, was a
special guest at the Louisville
chapter’s luncheon in May,
while David R. Long, W&L
director of planned giving,
was a special guest at the
Winston-Salem chapter’s June
luncheon.

Party on, W&L

Springtime parties dotted
the alumni chapter events
schedule over the last few
months. ‘The Chicago chapter
held a Happy Hour Mixer for
members of the classes of ’75
to 91 in March, and then in

 

 

PAGE 34/ THE

GAZETTE ¢@

 

 

MONTGOMERY—Sharing a laugh at a cocktail party are (from left) Larry
Peppers, Commerce School dean; Joe Bear, ’65; and Philip Sellers, ’75.

 

 

 

ALUMNI

NEWS

 

May the chapter held its annual
Kentucky Derby party with
friends from Virginia colleges.
The San Francisco chap-
ter held its 2nd Annual Old
Dominion Day Crab Feed in
May, while the Atlanta chap-
ter held a party that featured
barbecue, bluegrass music,
and skeet shooting in May.
The Houston chapter
held an Old Dominion party
on the last day in May, while
the New Orleans chapter held
an alumni party in early June.

Special events

A number of chapters
held special events in the
spring. The Greensboro and
Winston-Salem chapters held
a barbecue reception for the

W&L lacrosse team after its
victory over Guilford in
March.

In April, the San Diego
chapter gathered for the Crew
Classic at Mission Bay, where
members witnessed some of
the finest amateur crew teams
in the country compete.

‘The new United Kingdom
chapter served as host for the
University Chorus Concert at
Beckenham Baptist Church
outside of London.

The New England chap-
ter participated in a guided
tour and reception of the “Im-
pressionism in Europe and
America” exhibition at the
Museum of Fine Arts Gund
Gallery. ‘They were joined
by Boston area alumni from
Amherst and William & Mary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7

(Clockwise from top right) BIRMINGHAM—Dean Peppers is flanked by
Johnny Scruggs, 77 (left), and Gates Shaw, 68; ROANOKE—Professor Ron
MacDonald (left) poses with Paul Black, ’82, and Eddie Smith, ’85; SENIOR
NIGHT—Soon-to-be alumni Wali Bacdayan (left), Elaine Harris, Jason
Kelley, and Ann Barton feast at barbecue; MONTGOMERY—Dean Peppers
gathers with Kent Jenkins and Mike Jenkins, ’64; BIRMINGHAM—Jim
Farrar, ’74 (left), Russ Chambliss, ’°74, Jimmy Nolan, ’74, and Russ Fletcher,
'74, gather in a reunion of classmates.

 

| & THE GAZETTE/ PAGE 35 @

L»——4

 

 

 

ALUMNI

NEWS

 

W&L , East Asian Studies alumni gather in Japan

wo groups of W&L alumni are now meeting in Japan.
] a summer and fall, Professor Zensho Asaeda of

Ryugoku University (helped by Katsuhiko Otani, Kansai
Gaidai, 92) hosted gatherings of those former Japanese exchange
students to W&L in the Kansai Region (Kobe, Osaka, Kyoto),
with seven in attendance at the first meeting, and a group of five
attending the second meeting.

Professor Asaeda is a loyal friend of W&L, and he served
as host to Ann Rogers and the late Minor Rogers during a recent
sabbatical in Kyoto. He also spent a month in Lexington during
1991, working with Rogers and speaking to W&L religion
classes. Otani was an exchange student at W&L in 1990, and he
recently took a job with Matsushita (Panasonic) after graduating
earlier this year.

The other attendees at the meetings included current and
former participants in the W&L-Kansai Gaidai exchange
program, as well as current W&L professors Joan O’Mara (art)
and Michael Smitka (economics). Both O’Mara and Smitka were
in Japan for research and exchange.

W&L alumni in Japan held a bigger gathering in December
when Ben Grigsby, ’72, and his wife, Carol, served as hosts for 16
alumni and former exchange students at their apartment in
‘Tokyo. Grigsby heads up the operations of the largest European
security house in Japan, Barclays de Zoete Wedd. Helping to
organize the meeting was Professor Smitka, who is on a sabbati-
cal at Rikkyo University Law School. The W&L alumni

attending the gathering ranged from David Wouters, ’55, a
consultant based in ‘Tokyo for over 20 years, to Andrew Haring,
’85, who had just arrived in Japan to take up a job with a Tokyo
law firm.

‘That such meetings were possible reflects the growth of the
W&L East Asian Studies Program. ‘Ten of the 16 alumni who
gathered for the party had been affiliated with the program in
some way. ‘The first students from W&L to study in Japan
under the University’s two exchange programs were both in
attendance, as was the first Kansai Gaidai student to come to
W&L. They are Joel Bassett, ’84 (who attended Kansai Gaidai),
Bart Peaslee, ’80 (who attended Rikkyo University), and Masaru
“Mike” Shimokawa (Kansai Gadai, ’86, at W&L in 1984).

Other former exchange students included Yukie Kurihara
(Rikkyo, ’85), who after an initial year at W&L, extended her
stay in Lexington for an additional year and then spent two more
years as an instructor of Japanese; Hideki Suzuki (Rikkyo, ’83),
and Mike McKinney, 90.

Also attending the Grigsby party were ‘Tom Rogers, the son
of Ann and Minor, and Dennis Oakley, ’76, and his wife Carol.
Even future W&L alum John Rockbridge Grigsby, class of 2012,
put in a brief pre-bedtime appearance.

The Japan-based W&L alumni contingent is planning more
activities this summer. All W&L alumni in Japan are urged to
contact Ben Grigsby at (03) 5255-0600.

 

 

   

R. K. Barton III, 63
Grosse Pointe Farm, Mich.

Donald W. Weir Jr., ’72
Birmingham, Ala.

 

ae SN. SP
Alexa A. Salzman, ’89
San Francisco, Calif.

 

T. Talbot Bond, ’51
Baltimore, Md.

 

 

 

 

New Members
of the Alumni Board

 

 

  

 

 

 

] i.
E. Neal Cory Il, ’77
Louisville, Ky.

 

 

| @& PAGE 36/THE GAZETTE @& !

 

 

ON THE SHOULDERS OF GIANTS

 

 

 

 

Campaign Update

As its second birthday approaches, “On the Shoulders of Giants: The Campaign for
Washington and Lee” is nearing the halfway mark in its five-year $127 million goal. Through
May 29, the campaign has reported $60.4 million, or 47.6 percent of its overall goal. (The
campaign officially began July 1, 1990.)

Significantly, close to $12 million in pledges has not been designated for any particular
need. “Certain of these gifts will be designated for one purpose or another over the course of the
campaign,” says Lex O. McMillan III, ’72, executive director of development.

Keeping that in mind, here is a review of the campaign’s

STRENGTHENING W&L’s
FACULTY.

Goal . $7] 9 million.

Raised to date: $5.5 million.

Nearly $3.4 million has been
earmarked for undergraduate
professorships (42.4 percent of the
goal) and $1.6 million for law
professorships (32.7 percent).
Another $3 million each is needed
to endow distinguished professor-

ships and salary support.

REINFORCING ACADEMIC
PROGRAMS.

Goal: $14.1 million.
Raised: $4.6 million.

‘The Robert E. Lee Research
Program has raised 61.9 percent of
its $500,000 goal. Other under-
graduate needs include endowed
department support; science
equipment acquisitions, and an
executive-in-residence program.
In the School of Law, endowment
dollars are needed for a teaching
support fund, the Law Review, the
Frances Lewis Law Center, and
the Powell Papers archivist.

objectives and their progress to date:

ENDOWING THE LIBRARIES.

Goal: $9 million.

Raised: $710,000.

Support is overdue here. Ditto the
Computer Center endowment,

which has a $4 million goal but has
just $25,000 raised to date.

FUNDING STUDENT SCHOLAR-
SHIPS.

Goal: $31 million.
Raised: $11.7 million.
Undergraduate financial aid (40.4

percent of goal) is running ahead of
law school scholarship funding (16

percent).

GIFTS FOR CURRENT OPERATIONS.

Goal: $11 million.
Raised: $7.1 million.

‘The 1991-92 Annual Fund,
completed June 30, was expected
to meet its $2.2 million goal.

PREPARING THE CAMPUS FOR
THE 21ST CENTURY.

Goal: $38.9 million.
Raised: $18.6 million.

Led by advance gifts to the
Lenfest Center and the addition to
Lewis Hall, the physical program
has amassed 47.9 percent of its
goal. The $7.5 million student
center and $8 million science wing
are still looking for major donors.

 

 

“a
/! of the campaign’s olyectives are designed
to support our faculty and students. It’s impor-

tant that we have the resources to meet them.”

—Lex O. McMillan IIT, ’72
Executive Director of Development

 

 

 

WA&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 37

 

FIVE GUYS NAMED

 

MOE

 

LL arry Wynn, ’34, is a strong believer in fate. Not the kind of fate

 

 

and one named [LARRY

by Brian D. Shaw

that predetermines doom, death, or financial ruin, but a fate that is

anchored in benevolence, in kindness, and in an uncompromising belief

that if you’re in the night place at the right time, good things will happen.

By his own admission, Wynn’s whole
life has been a series of chance encoun-
ters, serendipitous meetings, and just
plain luck that all turned out just right.

How Wynn came to Washington
and Lee, his career as a songwriter, his
marriage to fashion designer Evelyn
Dawson Wynn, his success as a sales-
man in radio and television all are stories
that have fate and good fortune as their
constant thread. But it is his most
recent brush with fate—the discovery
that a song he had written many years
ago was now the basis for a ‘T'ony-Award
nominated Broadway hit musical—that
reaffirms Wynn’s belief that “you gotta
believe in fate.”

“My entire life has been weird,”
he says without irony. “I never had a
plan, but everything always worked out.”

Larry Wynn was born Lester
Litwin (“I officially changed my name
because it wasn’t marquee material,”
he says—more on that later) in Brook-

38 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

lyn, New York, the son of a streetcar
conductor and a garment worker. From
early in his life, Wynn had one goal—
“to make a million bucks by noon
tomorrow.” ‘That meant Wall Street,
where he took a job as a page on the
floor of the New York Stock Exchange.
It was 1928, the year before the Crash,
and a very exciting time.

“Every day was pure magic,”
Wynn writes in his yet unpublished
autobiography. “Commuting on the
Long Island Railroad, everybody talked
big money. The whole world was in
the market—porters, cleaning women,
waiters, barbers, shoe salesmen, every-
body. You can’t imagine the electricity
in the air.”

‘Then the Crash of ’29 came and
Wynn’s world collapsed around him.

‘The summer after the Crash,
‘Thomas R. Cox, a stockbroker who had
taken an interest in Wynn, urged the
young man to get a college degree. Cox

told Wynn that his
chances for success in
the market would be
greatly enhanced with
a degree. Cox also
agreed to pay for Wynn’s
education. Come fall,
Wynn found himself on
the campus of the Col-
lege of William and
Mary in Williamsburg,
Va. It was as if he had
landed on another
planet.

“It was an entirely
new world for me,” he
says. “I found out how
provincial America was,
but I really liked it and
was glad I came.”

Wynn went out for
the basketball team and
quickly became a star.
Although he didn’t pledge a fraternity,
Wynn was a popular figure on campus.
He was elected president of the Athletic
Council, ran track (where held records
in the low and high hurdles), and was
slated to become captain of the basket-
ball team when fate interceded—this
time in a negative way.

In the spring of 1933, the students
at William and Mary decided to go on
strike for no other reason, Wynn says,
than an acute case of spring fever and
the desire not to attend classes. ‘The
student leaders made speeches against
supposed injustices created by the ad-
ministration, and Wynn delivered a
speech on the high price of textbooks.
The whole strike lasted only a few
days, and the student body went on to
end the academic year in June.

The next fall, Wynn went to the
registrar’s office to register for his senior
year. He was told that the office had
been instructed not to accept his regis-
tration. The following morning he
stood before Doctor Chandler, W&M
chancellor, who told him his behavior
“has not been in the best interest of this
college” and refused to register him.
Wynn was reeling. What looked to be

 

the final, glorious year ina successful
college education was now ruined.

In a panic, he called his advisor, T.
R. Cox. Cox called Dr. Francis Pendle-
ton Gaines, who agreed immediately to
accept Wynn. While ineligible to play
basketball for the Generals because of
conference rules governing transfers,
he served as an assistant coach for the
freshman basketball team, working
with a quick guard named Norm Iler,
who ended up being inducted into the
W&L Athletic Hall of Fame.

“TI loved Washington and Lee and
will always be grateful to it for the com-
passion and interest it took in me when
the chips were down,” he says. “I made a
lot of friends at W&L.”

ith his B.A. in business ad-
ministration, Wynn “bum-
med around New York” after

graduation, working different jobs and
playing semi-professional basketball
and softball. A chance meeting (fate,
again) with an old friend from the stock
exchange landed Wynn an audition as
a singer for a new, live radio show. Of
course, Wynn got the job, although his
formal training had consisted only of
singing at college dances. He began
writing songs, singing wherever he
could, and hanging out in Harlem. He
joined forces with the well-known
Palmer Brothers and played gigs as
Larry Wynn and the Wynners. He
sang with Dinah Shore, and appeared
with many other jazz greats of the ’30s
and *40s.

When one of Wynn’s songs, “I’m
All For You,” caught the great Billie
Holliday’s ear and she decided to record
it, she invited Wynn to the recording
session. ‘The next day a friend asked
Wynn to name the musicians at the
session.

“I remember this as clear as day,”
Wynn says. “I said, ‘There was ‘Teddy
Wilson on piano, Little Roy Eldridge
on trumpet, Don Redman and George
Auld on two of the saxes,’ and then my
memory failed, so I blurted out ‘and
five guys named Moe.’ Ping, the light
went on. What a title fora song. A few
hours later it was a song.” Wynn
pitched “Five Guys Named Moe” to
band leader and saxophonist Louis
Jordan, who was at the height of his

popularity at the time. Jordan recorded
it and the song was popular for a few
years, before fading—like most pop
songs—into oblivion.

e now jump ahead almost
50 years, moving right over
Wynn’s outstanding career in

broadcast sales, when fate again inter-
cedes in Larry Wynn’s life. It is 1991
and Wynn, although now retired, has
remained active. He continues to write
songs, is a prolific painter, and is the
author of four unpublished novels. One
Sunday, he opens 7he New York Times to
the entertainment section. His sleepy
blue eyes immediately fall on a story
about a musical that has enjoyed great
success for the last two years in London
and is now being brought to New York
by Cameron Mackintosh, who pro-
duced the Broadway hits Miss Saigon,
The Phantom of the Opera, Les Miserables,
and Cats. ‘The name of Mackintosh’s
new import: Five Guys Named Moe.

“They nearly passed out when I
called,” says Wynn. “I hadn’t belonged
to ASCAP (the composers group that
oversees royalties), so they couldn’t
trace me. ‘They thought I was dead.”

All of a sudden, Wynn was caught
up in the excitement of the planning
and execution of a major Broadway
show, without any of the worries asso-
ciated with financing, casting, direction,
etc. Since the show has no real plot—it
revolves around five imaginary guys
named Moe who come to the aid of a
character called No Max who is having
women troubles—the title song forms
the foundation around which an evening
of extraordinary dancing and singing
takes place. It opened in April , was
nominated for two Tony Awards, in-
cluding “Best Musical,” and has been
playing to large audiences ever since.

Because he is a sort of spiritual
father to Five Guys Named Moe, Wynn
was celebrated and featured during the
opening night festivities of the play and
the publicity blitz that followed.

“It was a wild and crazy thing,” he
says, shaking his head. “All of a sudden
I was somebody. I had more than the
15 minutes of fame that Andy Warhol
promised. It was very exciting.”

And the excitement continues.
‘Through ASCAP, other writers are con-
tacting Wynn to discuss new collabora-

tions. It looks as if—at the age of 82—
that Wynn’s career as a songwriter,
interrupted by 50 years of life, is
starting all over again.

arry Wynn’s apartment is on the
26th floor of a high-rise building
that sits almost on the Hudson

River directly across from New York
City, its skyline forming a backdrop
that rivals any in nature. The walls of
the apartment are adorned with the
vibrant, colorful oil paintings Evelyn
did in the last 20 years of her life. A
microphone is hooked up to a tape
recorder near the piano. When Wynn
isn’t reading, watching basketball ( he
was crushed by the Knicks’ loss), or
working on his latest project, he is
composing songs. ‘The one he plays for
a visitor is a love song that evokes a
smoky nightclub, a singer in strapless
dress, and a poor, besotted, lovesick
fool begging the bartender for another
two fingers of cheap bourbon. It is a
good song. Wynn is talking about his
life.

“My life is full of wild stories,” he
says, folding his lanky frame—still trim
at 82—into a small chair. He reels off a
Runyonesque recounting of his days in
New York when it was the most exciting
place in the world: amateur night at the
Apollo ‘Theatre in Harlem when a fel-
low named Puerto Rico literally pulled
bad acts off the stage with a hook,
singing in dank West Side nightclubs
for mobsters who were later rubbed out
in true gangland style, playing ball with
the Central Park Rats and making
barely enough to cover the cost of his
room ($4 per week), and the heady,
unrestrained first days of selling ‘TV
and radio ads when the only rules were
the ones you imposed on yourself. Yet
the conversation turns, unprompted, to
his one year at Washington and Lee.

“Dr. Gaines was a saint,” he says.
“T will always appreciate the kindness
he extended to me and to my mother.
One of the first stories I heard when I
came to W&L was the story about Mr.
Doremus and the gift that was made to
the University in his name because of
the kindness of one student. I like to
think it is still like that. I love the place
and what it stands for.”

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 39

‘Lhe Generals’ Report

by Brian Logue

 

 

 

. "fe .
De Sn RR.
: ; ses ateter acerca “s
¥ a. stateree “ see *
at 7 =. _" *
- Ne 7 ~~
; SS ee ee oe
a me ie
Sa Sesteted Ce
SS eaten ia
es ee ere
, ae . .
- Swe ,
__-..-:
- SN.
eee secant
a P s
a -* .
+ : i
fad

straight Lee-Jackson trophy.

E very year in early
March, ESPN treats its view-
ers to “Championship Week,”
a seemingly endless diet of
conference basketball cham-
pionship games that pro-
duces memorable moments

of the thrill of victory.

At Washington and Lee, the spring
sports teams have come to treat their
own viewers to what might be known
as “Championship Weekend,” the last
few days in April when the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference decides many
of its championships. And many of
those championships have found their
way into W&L’s hands. The spring of

40 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

W&L seniors (from left) Jeff Roberts, Coleman Devlin, Tom Snedeker, Jeff O'Brien, Drew Anton, and Robert Huke latch on to their fourth

1992 proved no different.

The action began on ‘Thursday,
April 23, with the women’s tennis team
opening play in the conference tourna-
ment at Sweet Briar. ‘The men’s team
began its tournament on Friday at
Randolph-Macon. By the time both of
those tournaments had concluded on
Saturday evening, W&L had taken
home two ODAC titles in convincing
fashion.

Saturday also saw a trio of second-
place finishes for W&L teams. The
men’s and women’s track teams
finished second at the ODAC Cham-
pionships, and the men’s lacrosse team
wrapped up a second-place finish in the
league with an 18-10 thumping of
Hampden-Sydney.

Saturday also marked the begin-
ning of the women’s lacrosse team’s

quest for their first ODAC title. The

+ os SS ee 2

 

lo

 

ei

Generals advanced to the champion-
ship game with a gutty 8-7 win over
Bridgewater. ‘Iwo days later, W&L
headed to face unbeaten and third-
ranked Roanoke College in the ODAC
championship game. To the delight of
the W&L partisan crowd, the Generals
stunned the Maroons 10-9 in overtime
to claim the crown.

Monday afternoon also saw the
beginning of the ODAC golf champion-
ships where the favored Generals got
off to a shaky start that put them out of
contention for a third straight team
title. But the next day, W&L bounced
back to finish in second place, 17 strokes
ahead of its nearest rival.

The final tally of those six days in
April were pretty impressive: three
ODAC championships and four second-
place finishes.

 

MEN’S LACROSSE

W&L entered the 1992 season full
of optimism following a strong 1991 in
which the Generals had advanced to
the NCAA Tournament. But third-
year head coach Jim Stagnitta knew 3
that his young squad would have a dif-
ficult task in trying to repeat as ODAC
champion and NCAA playoff team.

The Generals started off the sea-
son 2-1 with easy wins over Greensboro
and Randolph-Macon and a loss to Divi-
sion I Virginia before heading to Frank-
lin & Marshall for their first major
Division III test of the season. W&L
led 6-5 in that game after three quarters
but then spent the majority of the
fourth quarter in the penalty box as
F&M pulled away for a 9-6 win.

W&L came back to hammer
Lynchburg at the Generals’ home-
away-from-home, Glen Maury Park in
Buena Vista, before heading to arch-
rival Roanoke College for what was
expected to be and proved to be the
deciding game for the ODAC cham-
pionship. Roanoke, which would go on
to lose in the NCAA Championship
game, dominated play for much of the
first three quarters, taking a 10-6 lead.
Midway through the fourth quarter,
however, the Generals mounted a late
charge, pulling to within 11-10 on a Jeff
Roberts goal with 3:48 to play. But the
Maroons held on for the victory, scoring
three of the game’s final four goals.

After beating Virginia Wesleyan by
16 goals, the Generals met up with
Gettysburg, the No. 3 team in the
nation, under the lights before a vocal
crowd at Lexington High School’s
Brewbaker Field. Though the Gener-
als lost a nailbiter, it did not diminish
perhaps the finest performance of the
year by Roberts in what was a banner
season for the senior captain from
Bellevue, Wash. Roberts, singlehandedly
keeping W&L in the game, scored six
times on just 10 shots against one of the
nation’s best goalies.

Having split its first eight games,
the Generals turned it on for the re-
mainder of the season, winning five of
Its last six games including the season
finale against next-door neighbor VMI
in the fifth annual Lee-Jackson
Lacrosse Classic. Over 3,500 fans at
Wilson Field saw W&L rally from a 5-4

third-quarter deficit by scoring nine
unanswered goals. It was the Generals’
fourth consecutive win in the annual
game with the Keydets.

Roberts finished the year with 38
goals and 30 assists to become just the
fifth player in school history to have
back-to-back 50-point seasons. He also
finished his career with 98 goals, the
fifth most in school history. Roberts
joined defenseman Robert Huke on
the All-ODAC first team, while junior
defenseman Josh Levinson was a
second-team selection.

WOMEN’S LACROSSE

Head coach Janine Hathorn pre-
dicted big things before the start of the
1992 season, and she was right on the
money. The Generals set a school
record with 12 wins, won their first
ODAC title, and were ranked as high as
seventh in the country.

With an experienced cast of seniors
and juniors, plus a talented crop of
freshmen and sophomores, the Gen-
erals had all the ingredients for a
championship season.

Junior Lisa Dowling scored a
school-record 45 goals, including five in
the championship game win over Roa-
noke. She teamed with senior Kim-
berly Bishop, W&L’s all-time leading

 

Kimberly Bishop helped W&L stay just out
of Bridgewater's reach in the ODAC
semifinals.

 

scorer, to form a potent offensive at-
tack. Bishop had 42 goals and led the
team with 15 assists, while Nicole
Ripken (23 goals), Angie Carrington
(19), Lindsay Coleman (14), and Paige
Henke (12) all bolstered the W&L
attack that averaged more than 12 goals
a game.

‘The Generals’ defense was just as
strong, giving up less than 10 goals in
every game but one all year. Senior
Whitney Hopkins anchored the de-
fense, but she was not the only star.
Junior Ginny Dallam drew praise for
holding Roanoke star Courtney Ditt-
man—who had scored seven goals
against W&L in an earlier meeting—
scoreless in the championship game.
Senior Melissa Manko, junior Lisa
Jennings, freshman Carrie Niederer,
and goalies Jen Donaldson and Sarah
Smith all played a big role, as well.

Bishop, Dowling, and Hopkins
were named first team All-ODAC, and
Dallam was a second team selection.
Carrington and Hopkins made first
team all-South, and Bishop was an
honorable mention selection.

WOMEN’S TENNIS

With a lineup featuring three
sophomores and three freshmen, you’d
expect that head coach Cinda Rankin
had some worrying to do. Not so.

The Generals won all 10 of their
matches in the spring after completing
the fall season with a 3-3 record. W&L
also won all eight of its ODAC regular-
season matches and then captured its
second straight ODAC title by winning
six of the nine singles and doubles
flights. Of course, no matter what the
cast, W&L has grown accustomed to
dominating the ODAC. W&L has won
the league title in three of the last four
years, and since the latter part of the
1987 season, W&L has won 59 of 60
ODAC dual matches.

This year’s cast of champions
included Genia Foster (No. 2 singles,
No. 1 doubles); Kim Dickinson (No. 4
singles); Liz McCord (No. 5 singles);
Cathy Gartin (No. 6 singles, No. 3
doubles); Marilyn Baker (No. 3 doubles);
and Mary Nabers (No. 1 doubles).

‘Though only a third-place finisher
at the ODAC Championships, Baker,

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 41

 

SCORE

SOc Re

 

Men’s Lacrosse (9-5)
W&L 25, Greensboro 8

Virginia 14, W&L 4

W&L 19, Randolph-Macon 9
Franklin & Marshall 9, W&L 6
Wa&L 16, Lynchburg 9

Roanoke 14, W&L 11

W&L 19, Va. Wesleyan 3
Gettysburg 12, W&L 10

Wa&L 12, Guilford 9

Wa&L 16, Radford 5

Washington College 16, W&L 10
Wa&L 15, Limestone 6

W&L 18, Hampden-Sydney 10
Wa&L 13, V.M.1. 5

Women’s Lacrosse (12-3)

W&L 15, Guilford 2

WA&L 19, Sweet Briar 0

Wa&L 8, Bridgewater 4

W&L 13, Randolph-Macon 3
Roanoke 12, W&L 8

W&L 14, Mary Washington 6
Wa&L 16, Rand.-Mac. Woman's Col. 1
Wa&L 9, Lynchburg 4

W&L 17, Wittenberg 4

W&L 12, Gettysburg 6

Lock Haven 8, W&L 7
Haverford 9, W&L 8

Wa&L 17, Hollins 6

*W&L 8, Bridgewater 7
*W&L 10, Roanoke 9 (OT)

* ODAC Tournament

Men’s Track (1-1)
Bridgewater 96, W&L 68

Wa&L 68, Eastern Mennonite 18
3rd at ODAC Championships

Women’s Track (2-0)

W&L 74, Eastern Mennonite 62
Wa&L 74, Bridgewater 19
2nd at ODAC Invitational

Women’s Tennis (13-3)

Swarthmore 5, W&L 4

W&L 8, Methodist 1

W&L 7, Sweet Briar 2
Catholic 6, W&L 3

W&L 5, George Mason 4
Mary Washington 6, W&L 3
WAL 9, Hollins 0

W&L 5, Denison 4

W&L 9, Va. Wesleyan 0
W&L 9, Roanoke 0

Wa&L 9, Rand.-Mac. Woman's Col. 0
W&L 9, Lynchburg 0

Wa&L 6, Mary Baldwin 0
Wa&L 5, Armstrong 4

Wa&L 9, Cabrini 0

Wa&L 5, Guilford 4

1st at ODAC Championships

 

 

 

 

 

 

42 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

   

*

Marilyn Baker shows winning form that led
to her NCAA success.

who finished the year with a 21-4
record, went on to represent W&L at
the national championships. Baker
advanced to the round of 16 before
falling to a top-seeded player. But her
first-round win was the first ever for a
W&L player in the women’s individual
championships. Both Baker and Foster
finished the season ranked in the top
30 in the country.

MEN’S TENNIS

‘There was no national tournament
this year for the Generals, but it was
hardly a disappointing season. With
just two regulars back from last year’s
lineup, W&L still managed to win their
eighth straight ODAC title and post an
8-10 mark against their always brutal
schedule.

Senior captain Richard Yates led
the way with a 20-12 record, a trip to
the NCAA individual championships
and the title in the Rolex Southeast
Regional tournament in the fall. Yates
won the ODAC No. 1 singles title to
claim ODAC Player of the Year honors
and also teamed with Tom Mazziotti to
win the No. 2 doubles title.

W&L’s other ODAC champions
were sophomore Robby MacNaughton
at No. 2, Mazziotti, a senior at No. 3,
sophomore David Schweppe at No. 5,
and sophomore Jon Ingram at No. 6.
The No. 3 doubles team of Wes

 

Ruggles and Kelly Vandever also
brought home a title.

W&L, which had a 7-3 record
against Division III teams, finished the
year ranked 19th in the nation. Yates
and MacNaughton were both ranked in
the top 50 in the country in singles,

GOLF

Head coach Buck Leslie’s talented
cast of seniors came up short in their
bid for an unprecedented third straight
ODAC title, but it was another big year
for the group that put W&L golf back
in the national picture.

Senior co-captains Clay Thomas
and Jay McKnight led the team all year
long and both earned All-ODAC
honors for the third straight year.
Thomas was named the ODAC Player
of the Year, earned all-district honors,
and represented W&L at the NCAA
Championships where he earned All-
America honors for the second time in
his career.

W&L finished the regular season
with a 33-2 record, giving Leslie his
200th career win in the process, but lost
to Guilford by 13 shots in the ODAC
Championships. ‘That loss apparently
was enough to knock W&L, a top-20
team all year long, out of the NCAA
Championships for the first time since
1989. During the course of the regular
season, W&L had beaten seven of the
21 teams that went to the NCAAs
during the course of the regular season.

W&L also got key performances
from seniors Cliff Burrow and Brad
Thoburn and saw the emergence of a
talented sophomore class led by Jimmy
Kull and Scott Robinson.

TRACK AND FIELD

There were no ODAC champion-
ships for the Generals this year, but a
pair of second-place finishes at the
ODAC outdoor meet once again ham-
mered home the Generals’ reputation
as a solid program.

The women’s team failed to win
the ODAC title for the first time in
three years, but injuries limited the
Generals to just seven athletes and not
even all of them were healthy. Still, led
by freshman Sarah Gilbert, who set
four school records during the season,

the Generals as a team earned runner-
up status. Gilbert was not the only
General to set records during the year.
Freshman Kim Herring set a pair of
‘ndividual records, freshman Sue
Deutsch set a mark in the shot put and
three relay records were broken.

On the men’s side, W&L was led
by a variety of athletes during the year,
but sophomore Scott Covey took center
stage at the ODAC meet. Covey won
the 400 hurdles and also had two second-
place finishes. The only record set
during the season was by senior Charles
Edwards, who also finished in second
place in the 5,000-meter run at the
ODAC Championships. Edwards set a
mark in the 10,000-meter run with a
time of 31:59.6. That record fell at the
highly competitive UNC Invitational
where Edwards finished second.

BASEBALL

In a sport full of cliches, one of the
most famous is “pitching is 90 percent
of the game.” W&L entered the sea-
son with just one proven returnee on
the mound and the result was a disap-
pointing 4-21 season.

W&L took two out of three against
West Virginia Tech to open the season
and appeared to have found a compli-
ment to senior T’.J. Daly in sophomore
Tim Molloy after he fired a four-hitter
in a 3-1 win over Randolph-Macon.
However, Molloy injured his knee and
was lost for the season, and the Gener-
als missed him, winning just once more
the rest of the season.

A pair of freshmen were the
offensive stars for the team. Catcher

‘Todd Stanton batted a team-leading
.328 and third baseman Duane Van
Arsdale hit .320 with four home runs
and 15 RBI. Senior co-captains Daly
and Brian Harper hit over .300, as well.

AWARDS

At the 1992 Washington and Lee
University Athletic Awards Ceremony,
golfer Clay Thomas of Tampa, Fla.,
and swimmer Jodi Herring of Boone,
N.C., earned the top honors as the male
and female Pres Brown Most Valuable
Athlete award winners. Thomas was a
two-time All-American and a three-time
All-ODAC golfer and led W&L to
ODAC crowns and top 10 national
finishes in 1990 and 1991. He was
ODAC Golfer of the Year in 1990 and
1992. Herring was a four-time All-ODAC
swimmer and 1992 ODAC Swimmer of
the Year, was a captain of both the
swimming and cross country teams, and
led W&L teams to four conference
championships in those two sports.

The other major award winners
were as follows:

Richard Miller Physical Education
Scholarship—Philip Spears of Wake
Forest, N.C.; J.L. “Lefty” Newell
Memorial Award—Erica Ingersoll of
South Harpswell, Maine; R.E. “Chub”
Yeakel Service Award—Joe Milcoff of
Bradfordwoods, Pa.; Outstanding
Freshman Athlete Awards—Kim
Herring of Boone, N.C., and Todd
Stanton of Atlanta.; William D.
McHenry Scholar-Athlete Award—
Charles Edwards of Baltimore; Wink
Glasgow Spirit & Sportsmanship
Award—Mark Melton of Houston.

W&L announces 1992 football schedule

Ff, rue home games will highlight Washington and Lee’s nine-game 1992 football
Schedule. The Generals, who finished 1991 with a 1-9 record, will open the year at
Wilson Field against Old Dominion Athletic Conference rival Emory and Henry in the
annual Hall of Fame Game on Sept. 12. This is the eighth straight year that WL has
opened the season against perennial league favorite Emory & Henry.

‘he annual homecoming game ts set for Oct. 3 against Randolph-Macon, while
Parents’ Weekend is slated for Oct. 24 against the University of the South.

Other home games are against Hampden-Sydney (Oct. 17) and Georgetown
(Nov.14). The away schedule includes games at Centre (Sept. 26), Davidson (Oct. 10),
Bridgewater (Oct. 31), and Guilford (Nov. 7).

 

SCORE

Beate a RD

 

 

Men’s Tennis (8-10)
W&L 8, Christopher Newport 1
WAL 9, Roanoke 0

WAL 7, Guilford 2

W&L 5, Hampden-Sydney 4
James Madison 6, W&L 3
Emory 7, W&L 2

Davidson 8, W&L 1

W&L 9, Lynchburg 0

Wooster 6, W&L 3

Radford 7, W&L 2

W&L 8, Averett 1

WA&L 7, Eastern Mennonite 2
Central Florida 5, W&L 4

WAL 5, Stetson 4

Rollins 8, W&L 1

Jacksonville 7, W&L 1

North Florida 8, W&L 1

1st at ODAC Championships
Swarthmore 7, W&L 2

Baseball (4-21)

W&L 8, West Va. Tech 0
West Va. Tech 12, W&L 9
WA&L 9, West Va. Tech 6
Holy Cross 15, W&L 0

Mary Washington 13, W&L 5
Mary Washington 8, W&L 0
Randolph-Macon 14, W&L 6
WA&L 3, Randolph-Macon 1
Bridgewater 13, W&L 3
Emory & Henry 12, W&L 0
Emory & Henry 10, W&L 7
Mary Washington 18, W&L 1
Hampden-Sydney 11, W&L 6
Bridgewater 15, W&L 4
Guilford 8, W&L 4

Guilford 10, W&L 8
Lynchburg 15, W&L 3
Eastern Mennonite 5, W&L 1
Eastern Mennonite 10, W&L 4
WAL 2, St. Mary's (Md.) 1

St. Mary's (Md.) 9, W&L 8
Lynchburg 5, W&L 1
Hampden-Sydney 9, W&L 6
Va. Wesleyan 5, W&L 3

Va. Wesleyan 5, W&L 1

Golf (33-2)

7th of 12 teams at Gordin Classic
3rd of 6 at Roanoke Invitational
W&L 318, Emory & Henry 339

2nd of 13 at Ferrum Invitational

1st of 8 at W&L Invitational

W&L 303, Shenandoah 379

1st of 5 at Va. Wesleyan Invitational
1st of 18 at Shipbuilders Invitational
2nd of 9 at ODAC Championships
NOTE: Record includes all 1-day events

 

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 43

 

 

MURREL D.

KLEIN lives in Louisville,
Ky. He is very active in the
W&L alumnichapter there.

28 JOHN B.

ECKER enjoyed a trip to Lexington in June 1991,
to see his grandson, JOHN E. McMANUS "91,
graduate from W&L. Ecker lives in Potomac, Md.

29
WILLIAM W. PACE volunteers in

the Virginia Room of the Roanoke Public Library.
He has been a volunteer there since he retired from
the Norfolk & Western Railway in 1974.

‘OL
Law: KENNETH BANK is retired

and living in Baltimore.

EVERETT N. CROSS was recently

recognized by the B-4-9 Lions Club of Sun City,
Ariz., for perfect attendance over the last 35 years.
‘The Lions Club is involved in a project which helps
needy children pay for eye exams and glasses.

EVERETT D. MERENESS is re-

tired and living in Sharon Springs, N.Y.

"3/
WILLIAM H. DANIEL livesin Rogers,

Ark., where he says he is “still working on projects
and still breathing delightful Ozark air.”

GEORGE F. BAUER JR. is doing a

great deal of traveling during his retirement. He
went to Portugal, Spain, and Morocco last fall, and
recently returned from a trip to Russia.

KESTER W. DENMAN JR. is retired and living in
Lufkin, ‘Texas.

COL. JOHN H. SHOAF has retired after five years
as the executive secretary of the Consular Corps of
Houston.

WENDELL R. STOOPS is general manager of
The Vinery, a horse farm in Midway, Ky.

LAUREN D. WILD teaches printing classes at
Central Piedmont Community College. He lives in
Charlotte, N.C.

‘oP
DR. ALEXANDER W. BLAIN III

recently retired after 40 years as a surgeon in De-
troit. He lives in Grosse Pointe, Mich.

CHARLES E. BOWLES JR. and his wife, Sara Le,
celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary in May.

JOHN B. PEARSON is starting his 51st year as a
member of the Connecticut Bar Association. He
serves regularly as an arbitrator in the Connecticut
Automobile Dispute program.

44 WA&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI

CLASS NOTES

JOHN S. JACK) BROOME spent

three weeks on board a Soviet nuclear ice breaker
last summer. The trip, which coincided with the
attempted Russian coup, took Broome from
Provideniy, Siberia, to Murmansk, Russia.

CHARLES C. CURL JR. does a great deal of
fishing and hunting and plays a lot of golf and
tennis. He also travels. In April, he went on the
W&L Alumni College trip up the Mississippi River
on the Delta Queen. He also took a trip to the French
Riviera and French Alps in June.

HAMILTON G. DISBROW JR. is retired and
living in Yardley, Pa.

Law: WENDELL R. STOOPS (see °38).

41
HENRY T. CROCKER JR. is retired

and living in Darlington, Md.

Law: CHARLES E. BOWLES (see 39).

DR. ROBERT L. PINCK was hon-

ored by the Long Island College Hospital during
their Annual Spring Dinner. Pinck was chairman of
the hospital’s department of radiology for 30 years.

PAUL C. THOMAS JR. is retired and living in
Bluefield, W.Va., where he is an elder and trustee
of First Presbyterian Church.

ALLEN J. SHARITZ is retired and

living in South Port St. Lucie, Fla.

"AA
DR. WILLIAM C. CRITTENDEN,

a pediatrician, practices part-time in a clinic in
Graysville, Ala., about 20 miles outside of Birming-
ham. His son, DR. RICHARD CRITTENDEN,
°73, practices internal medicine in Birmingham.

"46
DR. L. REX CRIMINALE retired

after 35 years as a professor of Romance Languages
at Elmira College in Elmira, N.Y.

JOHN W. WARNER (see A.

RUSSELL WILKERSON III, °90).

‘THOMAS C. FROST, chairman of

the board of Cullen/Frost Bankers Inc., was in-
ducted as a 1992 Laureate to the San Antonio,
‘Texas, Junior Achievement Business Hall of Fame.
Cullen/Frost Bankers Inc. is a Texas holding com-

pany with four member
banks and 22 offices in five
major banking markets.

Law: WALTER i

HANNAH, senior partner
inthe Greensboro, N.C., law
firm of Adams Kleemeier
Hagan Hannah & Fouts, was
recently named a Fellow of
the American College of Construction Lawyers,

Hannah is among 69 attorneys from 21 states who
have been admitted to the roster of Fellows,

on
ARTHUR HOLLINS III received

the first Distinguished Service Award presented
by McNeese State University Foundation for his
work chairing a $5 million endowment campaign.

ROBERT T. PITTMAN recently retired as vice
president and editor of the editorial page at the Sz
Petersburg Times.

‘THOMAS R. SHEPHERD is a con-

sultant, primarily with the Thomas H. Lee Co. He
had previously worked for GTE Sylvania for 25
years. Shepherd and his wife, Nancy, live in Stow,
Mass., close enough to his five grandchildren to
visit them regularly.

Law: WILLIS M. ANDERSON recently was rec-
ognized as a distinguished alumnus by Roanoke
College during the college’s Sesquicentennial
Alumni Awards banquet.

JAMES M. GABLER, president of

Bacchus Press Ltd., recently announced that his
company was presenting limited editions of exact
reproductions of five classic books on wine. Gabler
is also a partner in the Baltimore law firm of
Sandbower, Gabler & O’Shaughnessy.

SPENCER T. SNEDECOR JR. recently shifted
the location of his Ace Hardware Store to Buford,
Ga. He also is proud to report the birth of a
granddaughter in December.

WARREN T. BRAHAM has been

elected chairman of the board of directors of Oat-
lands, the 1803 property of the Trust for Historic
Preservation in Leesburg, Va. Braham has recently
retired as regional president of First Amer-
ican Bank of Virginia.

DR. HERWIG R. BRANDSTETTER isincharge
of the aid program of the Chamber of Commerce of
Styria, Austria, for towns in Croatia.

THE REV. J. FLETCHER LOWE JR. recently
went on a month-long pilgrimage to Cairo, Egypt
Addis Abbaba, Ethiopia; Nairobi, Kenya; and
Calcutta, India. Lowe and his wife, Mary Fran, and
six others worked with Mother Teresa’s Missionary
Sisters of Charity helping the poor, destitute, and
sick in each of those cities.

SEDGWICK L. MOSS and his wife, Virginia, re-
stored their 1955 Chevrolet 2-door sedan for the
national “Classic Chevy” show, which was held
outside of Baltimore on June 19-21.

 

STEPHE N SLOAN recently received a presiden-
pointment to the Marine Advisory Fishery

jal a ;
cil, which advises the National Marine Fish-
ery Serv ‘ce. Sloan chairs the subcommittee on

recreational fishing.

9
WILLIAM H. BARTSCH isin his last

year with rhe International Labour Office in Geneva,
Switzerland. He plans to return to the U.S. in 1993.

Law: JAMES M. GABLER (see ’53).

9 ay
CHARLES F. DAVIS JR. has made a

career change after 32 years in banking. He is now
the international advisor to the chairman of the
largest stee! company in Taiwan. The company has
recently completed two bond issues for $80 million,
and is in the process of opening a Hong Kong office.

RADER W.. (BILL) WINGET JR. has retired after
25 years as a lecturer in the English Literature
Departments of several British colleges. He lives
in Buckingham, England.

"SS
‘THOMASC. FRIEDMAN has moved

back to his home in East Hampton, N.Y., where he
opened up a card and gift shop called Who’d-a-
Thoughtin February. Friedman had been the pres-
ident of Card Express, Inc., in Cleveland.

DR. WILLIAM R. KELTING III is an associate
professor of accounting at the State University of
New York at Plattsburgh. He is also a consultant to
certified public accounting firms.

W. PHILIP LAUGHLIN is project manager on
the expansion of the Sriracha Refinery in Thailand
for Exxon. He and his wife moved to Bangkok in
November 1991.

JAMES W. VAN CLEAVE III was recently ap-
pointed vice president of media and programming
worldwide for Procter & Gamble. He makes his
home in Cincinnati.

"S9
PEYTON G. MIDDLETON JR. was

recently named manager of investor relations at
Potomac Electric Power Co. He is also assistant
treasurer and assistant secretary. Middleton is re-
sponsible for the development and management of
programs directed toward PEPCO’s individual and
institutional investors, and is involved in public
offerings of PEPCO’s securities.

‘THOMAS M. SCHMIDT teaches and counsels
at-risk high school students for the Albuquerque,
N.M., public schools.

LESTER H. WASKINS recently moved from Bal-
timore to Blacksburg, Va., where he is vice presi-
dent of sales and marketing for a furniture distrib-
uting company.

60
The Financial Strategic Technology

Portfolio of INVESCO Funds Group Inc., man-
aged by DANIEL B. LEONARD, won several
awards for its outstanding performance in the cat-
egory of science and technology investment funds.

DR. JOSEPH E. (JERRY) RINGLAND works in
clinical research for Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals
in Philadelphia.

61
DOUGLAS J. LEWIS, a financial

planner for Lewis Financial Management, has a finan-
cial advisory radio program called “Money Mat-
ters,” on WPTF-AM. Lewis answers live questions
for an hour every Sunday. He lives in Raleigh, N.C.

"62
DAVID F. BEALE was board certi-

fied in civil trial law and in civil appellate law by the
Texas Board of Legal Specialization in December
1991. Beale is an independent lawyer in Houston.

THORNS CRAVEN is working in the develop-
ment and improvement of a national telecommu-
nications network for legal services programs through-
out the country. He is also pursuing certification as
a lawyer-mediator to serve in North Carolina’s civil
mediation project. Craven suffered a broken leg in
February when he crashed while mountain biking
in the Ecuadoran Andes, but he reports he is recov-
ering nicely.

GEORGE A. CRUGER recently was awarded a
$5,000 grant by the Virginia Commission for the
Arts to support the writing of a novel. He retired
from the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in October,
1991, to pursue a career as a freelance editor and
writer. Cruger lives in Richmond.

RAWSON FOREMAN, a partner in the Atlanta
law firm of Alston & Bird, was recently selected by
the Midtown Business Association to be the group’s
president. The association is considered the driv-
ing force behind the development of Midtown
Atlanta, home of corporations such as AT&T,
BellSouth, C&S/Sovran, IBM, First Union Bank,
and Coca-Cola. Midtown also is home to more than
ten arts organizations.

 

The Capital Campaign:

CONTRIBUTING TO W&L NOW, CONTRIBUTING TO YOURSELF LATER

 

\lchough I broached the topic of income-retained gifts for younger
alumni and friends of the University in my last column, I think a particular
arrangement known as the deferred gift annuity bears repeating, particu-
larly given the interest in it that I’ve encountered on the road.

‘he story is a familiar one to all of us in our 20s, 30s, and 40s: high
mortgages, education-related expenses, retirement worries, and still an
interest in doing something for W&L. For many of us, this represents our
first opportunity to make an investment in the future of the University. But
how? I think the answer can be found in the deferred gift annuity.
Conceptually, you make a gift of assets now and receive the income tax
benefits now, but also retain an income from those assets, an income that
will begin some time in the future, such as your projected retirement date.

| his is how it works. Let’s say that you could consider making a total gift
to the University of $10,000 over a five-year period ($2,000 a year) through
this arrangement. The following benefits would accrue to you if you are 35
years old and would elect to defer income payments until age 65:

DEFERRED GIFT ANNUITY

Year Gift Income Deferral Pd.
1992 $2,000 $546 30 years $1,671.36
1993. $2,000 $526 29 years $1,656.24
1994 $2,000 $506 28 years $1,640.92
1995 $2,000 $486 27 years $1,625.46
1996 =. $2,000 $468 26 years $1,608.26

$10,000 $2,532 $8,202.24

In this illustration, the donor will receive a total fixed retirement
income of $2,532 (25.32 percent) from his/her gifts, along with cumulative
charitable income tax deductions of $8,202.24 that he/she can use now to re-
duce a current tax burden. Given the Board of Trustees’ rules on gift accounting
in the campaign, this donor would be credited with a gift of $8,202.24, a
handsome commitment to the future well-being of this old school.

Where does the money come from to make the five annual gifts
through this arrangement? For those who have current retirement plans
that permit employees to increase and decrease the percentage they
personally contribute (Keogh plans, for example), it may be possible, as well
as advantageous to reduce your personal contributions by one or two
percentand use the amount represented by that reduction to initiate a series
of deferred gift annuities. This plan can be tailored to your unique needs
and might represent the only way that you as a young professional can
consider a significant gift in the University’s campaign. It is a straightfor-
ward and beneficial way of making a lasting contribution to W&L and, in
the long run, to yourself.

Please don’t hesitate to write or call the University’s Office of
Development (703) 463-8425 if I can answer any questions you might have
about this type of planned gift or any other.

David R. Long
Director of Planned Giving

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 45

 

Blind ambition

KANE, ’77L, ONE OF
New JERSEY’S Best JUDGES

Judge Joseph Kane, ’77L, an ad-
ministrative law judge for the state of
New Jersey, has been ranked the state’s
most productive of its 41 administra-
tive law judges. It’ssomething of which
Judge Kane is proud, and he considers
it his largest accomplishment in his
present position, which he’s had for
two years.

Kane isa versatile man, who in his
spare time loves deep sea fishing,
“anything from flounder to shark,” and
even owns his own boat. In addition,
he plays both percussion and guitar.
During law school, playing with a band
on weekends helped out with the tu-
ition, book, and household expenses
for him and his wife Marianne. “I
played many law school and frat par-
ties,” he says of his law school years.

Kane also spends time volunteer-
ing with the Community Justice Insti-
tute, which mediates cases between
neighbors and husbands and wives in
ordertolessen the burden on thecourt’s
case load and “promote community
harmony.”

As if Kane’s record as judge, fish-
erman, musician, volunteer, and hus-
band were not impressive enough, add
to it that he may work just a little bit
harder for it all: Kane is blind.

The first blind judge ever ap-
pointed in New Jersey, he says, “It’s
something to creatively work around.”
For example, an assessment of cred-
ibility is an important part of his job
when hearing a case. Usually a judge
notices outward manifestations of ner-
vousness, “I can’t see them squirm—
I pick up onchanges in their voice.” So
theslick presenter has nothing on Judge
Kane. “The advantage is that I can be
more objective. I can’t see a five-
hundred dollar suit.”

Kane’s not intimidated by the im-
portance of his decisions on other
people’s lives, but making them is very

Judge Joseph Kane

different than his many years as an
attorney. “I was used to swinging or
being swung at. Now I’m the referee
and have to stick with my decisions.”
He takes his decisions very seriously.
“It’s not a job you leave while home,”
he says. “The ones that are close are
hard—if you’re taking away someone’s
right to work.”

His extensive reading is done bya
regular IBM PC with about $5,000 worth
of extra equipment. ‘Throughout law
school, he depended on Recordings for
the Blind. At that time, reading ma-
chines were prohibitively expensive.
The new technology, he says, has
“made this type of job possible for me.
A machine doesn’t tire like a person
would.”

And yet Kane seems to never tire.
His achievements are remarkable in
their own right, not because of his dis-
ability. He remembers his W&L years
as productive, and he believes his
education helped him in ways beyond
the mere exchange of information.

“My education at W&L helped
me at this job,” he says. “The disci-
pline expected by the professors carries
through. It’s not an easy school to get
through.”

—Kimberly Marcott, ’93

 

‘oward. The firm has three other of-

‘vl : an and Illinois. Borda concentrates
a ce the area of corporate and interna-
riona!

JOHN ‘1AM III has moved to Baltimore to
help 0) Baltimore office of the law firm of
McGu is, Battle & Boothe. ‘The Baltimore
office eviously the law firm of Cable,
McDa: wie and Bond.

IZ. (

\VID A. CRAWLEY, a features re-
porter \A-TY in Pittsburgh, was awarded
che ani iter’s Devil Award by the Pittsburgh
Chapt men In Communications on April 9.
The av nors excellence in journalism by a
report stern Pennsylvania whose work best
exemp e spirit of the area and is written with
“a TOUC oy
THE( J}. DUNCAN IIL is senior financial
consult ch Merrill Lynch in Oklahoma City,
where s with his wife, Sharon.

EARL WARDS JR. recently concluded a
season ng the Washington and Lee women’s
basket! im. Edwards coached the team, which
compe! s year as a club sport, along with
Profess ‘istory Barry Machado.

J. WAR ‘UN'T is chief executive officer of
Preferr: vider Organization. He lives in Dal-
las.

RICH ~. KRAMER recently delivered a pa-
per titl: ne Washington Square Players: Art for
Art’s Sa ‘the EastCentral Theater Conference
conve! n Baltimore. Healsojustcompleted an
assign! ‘or the Cambridge University Press,
and he for The Drama Review. Kramer will be
listed | 1991-92 editions of Who’s Who in En-
tertainn \Vho’s Who in American Education, and
Who's V ‘ Emerging Leaders in America.

PHIL! NORWOOD was recently named
manag irtner of Trammell Crow Ventures, the
invest affiliate of the commercial real estate
compa ammell Crow Co. Norwood is return-
ing to imell Crow Ventures after a brief de-
partur: n the firm. He lives in Dallas.

\_// DR. RICHARD B. ABRAMS is direc-

tor of ‘| education at Children’s Hospital in
Deny: ‘¢ is also the past president and current
progra airman of the International Society for
Oral Oncology. He and his wife, Liz, and children,
Eliza! 19, Kate, 11, and Jay, 9, live in Green-
wood | xe, Colo.

WIL! | B. BIDDLE works for the National
Assoc of Home Builders in Upper Marlboro,
Md. son, Compton, recently completed his
fresh; ear at W&L.

JAM} BYCOTT is environmental counsel for
Ralst: irina Co. in St. Louis, Mo. He has three
daugh Sarah, 16, Becky, 14, and Valerie, 11.
Jim, h\. fe, Laura, and his stepdaughter, Martha,
live ir ‘sterfield, Mo.

JOH) KEFAUVER JR. started his own com-
pany Construction Inc., in San Antonio, Texas,
durin ‘summer of 1991. The company special-
IZes j per and residential remodels.

ALAN P. MARIAN recently had a mini-reunion—
complete with guitars—with two of his former
apartment-mates, classmates KEITH DECKER
and ROBIN GUYTHER. Marian reports the trio
reminisced about 7he Ring-tum Phi and “the famous
UFO raid on Lexington.”

Pt
MICHAEL L. CARRERE will have a

wonderful excuse to visit campus often next year,
as his daughter, Meg, will be enrolling as a member of
the class of 1996.

STEVEN R. DENTON was named 1991 Trial
Lawyer of the Year by the San Diego Trial Lawyers
Association. Denton, a partner in the law firm of
Ludecke and Denton and board member of the San
Diego County Bar Association, was recognized for
his work on behalf of injured workers. He had
previously been honored with four Outstanding
Trial Lawyer awards.

FRANK M. EVANS III isan attorney, shareholder,
and director with the law firm of Miller & Sanford,
P.C., in Springfield, Mo. He works primarily in the
areas of health and hospital law. Evans, who lives in
Springfield with his wife, Sarah, and children, Tricia,
10, and Will, 2, was recently profiled in the Spring-
field Business Journal.

DR. HUGH F. HILL III works for United Physi-
cians Insurance, doing claims and corporate work
for the medical malpractice insurance company.
He also spends a few hours each month doing cli-
nical practice work in a homeless clinic.

HOLLIS C. TAGGART owns an American art
gallery in Georgetown. He lives in Washington,
D.C., with his wife and two children.

be
JAMES S. McCANE is director of the

business meetings group of Maritz Travel Co. in St.
Louis, Mo. He has two sons, Mike, 6, and Jesse, 4.

HARRY J. PHILLIPS JR. is chief executive of
American Ecology Corp., a Louisville, Ky., based
company that disposes of chemical and radioactive
waste. Phillips led a group that bought a majority
stake in American Ecology in November 1991.

a
DR. RICHARD C. CRITTENDEN

(see DR. WILLIAM C. CRITTENDEN, *44).

ALBERT (HAP) PRESTON III had a very inter-
esting year in 1991. He and his wife celebrated the
birth of their third son, Robert Barrows, in May, he
was awarded a contract to write a children’s book,
and he was elected to the vestry of St. Paul’s
Episcopal Church in Kansas City, Mo.

Law: MICHAEL CAMPILONGO is on the advi-
sory board of the Virginia Water Resources Center,
which is headquartered at Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University.

14
JAMES C. FERGUSON isa partner in

the law firm of Kimball, Wilson, Walker & Ferguson,
specializing in insurance defense. He and his wife,
Judy, and children, Kelly, 6, and Clay, 3, live in
Edmond, Okla. Ferguson is also a lieutenant colo-
nel in the Oklahoma Army National Guard.

ROBERT E. JOHNSON JR. is controller and chief
financial officer of Asea Brown Boveri Traction Inc.
He lives in Elmira, N.Y.

DR. JOSEPH P. McMENAMIN was a featured
speaker at a symposium on preventing obstetrical
lawsuits by using a team approach. McMenamin
lives in Richmond, Va.

JOHN H. SORRELLS JR. was recently promoted
to vice president of Burson- Marsteller, an interna-
tional public affairs and public relations firm. Sorrells
works in the Washington, D.C., office, which is
headquarters for the company’s public affairs net-
work.

15
‘THOMAS G. ARMSTRONG was re-

cently named president and chief executive officer
of Standard Steel Specialty Co. in Beaver Falls, Pa.
He lives in Beaver Falls with his wife and two
daughters.

ROBERT S. BONNEY JR. was one of 150 distin-
guished alumni honored at Roanoke College’s
Sesquicentennial Alumni Awards Banquet held on
April 9, 1992. Bonney practices law in New Jersey.

76
MAJ. PHILIP L. HANRAHAN trained

his first winning racehorse, as Bourbon Native won
a race at the River Downs racetrack in Kentucky.
The filly paid more than $40 to win on a two-dollar
bet.

NEIL L. JOHNSON is having a book published
this spring. The Battle of Lexington and Concord, is an
historically accurate account of the day of the first
battle of the Revolutionary War, April 19, 1775. It
is illustrated with photos of reenactors and reenact-
ments.

ROBERT G. PUGH JR. lives in Shreveport, La.,
with his wife, Maura, and son, Robert III.

WALTER S. ROBERTSON III works for
DeJarnette & Paul Inc., an insurance corporation in
Richmond. He lives there with his wife, Susan.

STEPHEN R.STRAWSBURG has been promoted
to vice president of the Vantage/More/NOW busi-
ness unit in R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.’s brand
marketing department.

“td
JOHN T. BERLEY was recently

elected to the Board of Directors of Fairfax
Savings Bank in Baltimore. He chairs the opera-
tions committee and is a member of the audit
committe. He lives in Bethesda, Md.

DR. RICHARD E. CAMPBELL received a re-
search grant from the Matsushita International
Foundation to lead a project in the Institute of
International Relations at Osaka International
University. The project studies public sector effi-
ciency in Indonesia, with special attention given to
educational productivity.

SCOTT A. CARLSON is moving to Berlin to head
a new investment company known as Calyx Capi-
tal. Calyx’s objective is to provide growth capital for
small to mid-sized companies in Eastern Europe
which have recently been privatized.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 47

78
WILLIAM K. BURTON is senior

vice president of NationsBank corporate banking
in Richmond. His area of responsibility covers Vir-
ginia and West Virginia. He and his wife, Gail, have
two daughters, Emily, 6, and Caroline, 3.

GEORGE W. FAISON JR. lives in Jersey City,
N.J., with his wife, Carol, and children, Lisa, 4, and
George, 1. The company he works for, D’Artagnan
Inc., has recently been featured in several major
publications, including Parade, Bon Appetit, Food @
Wine, and Vogue for excellence in gourmet foods.

EDWIN D. JOHNSON IIL is chief financial officer
for Attwoods PLC, an international waste man-
agement company. He joined the company in 1984
as the chief financial officer of U.S. operations.

R. PLATER C. ROBINSON was awarded the
Silver Reel by the National Federation of Com-
munity Broadcasters for a story he did for The
Christian Science Monitor Radio. The story, titled
“David Duke: Echos of the Past,” aired during the
Louisiana gubernatorial run-off, examined Duke’s
candidacy in relation to the history of race and
politics in Louisiana. Robinson is currently work-
ing on a story about the Houma Indians of Louisi-
ana, and he leaves for Poland this summer to pre-
pare a story on the Jewish revolt against the Nazis in
Warsaw in 1943.

W. GORDON ROSS II was recently transferred by
J.P. Morgan & Co. to Milan, Italy, where he is
establishing a private banking group.

DR. JOHN F. SACCO practices oncology in Cin-
cinnati, where he lives with his wife, Cathy.

19
GORDON L. HOUGH JR. is an asso-

ciate director with Barclays Bank PLC in New York
City. He focuses on corporate finance and interna-
tional trade and project finance in lesser developed
countries. Hough lives in Rowayton, Conn., with
his wife, Holly, and son, Gordon III, 2.

MAJ. FREEMAN E. JONES completed the
master’s program in international economics and
European studies at the School of Advanced In-
ternational Studies of Johns Hopkins University in
Washington, D.C. He works as a military assistant
to the Assistant Secretary of Defense, in the area of
force management and personnel.

KENNETH D. SMITH won second place for
editorial writing in the Maryland-Delaware-
Washington, D.C., annual awards contest for 1991.
Smith works for The Washington Times.

DR. PRESTON A. WALDROP practices
orthopaedic surgery and sports medicine with the
Lewis-Gale Clinic in Roanoke, where he lives with
his wife, Jamie, and children, Preston Jr., 5, and
Tess, 1. Waldrop previously was a fellow in sports
medicine at the University of Miami.

ABNEYS. BOXLEY III is president of

W.W. Boxley Co., a chain of seven quarries named
for his great grandfather. The company produces
crushed stone for roads, foundations, shorelines,
and railway ballast and sand for concrete and block.
Boxley was featured in the March 1, 1992, edition of
the Roanoke Times and World-News.

48 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

    

Mason ts at the controls of successful TV news show.

Dateline: Virginia
MAson, ’84, BREAKS NEw GROUND WITH TV News SHow

Scott Mason, ’84, is used to meet- “John is an amazing cameraman
ing deadlines. with an unusual style of shooting. His

As a television reporter for local crisp, somewhatstylized, visual images
stations in Chattanooga, Tenn., Win- are a good part of what make ‘Virginia
ston-Salem, N.C., and a bureau chief Currents’ different.”

in Dayton, Ohio, for the last seven And itis different. Mason believes
years, Mason is a veteran of the hectic _ in letting the people and the pictures
lifestyle of the telejournalist. tell the story, so there is a lot of natural

So when he was offered the jobas sound, quick editing, and surprisingly
host/reporter for his own news maga- _little voice-over for most of the stories.
zine program, “Virginia Currents,” he “Their coverage of W&L’s Mock

saw nothing unusual about debuting Convention was one of the most imagi-
the show and getting married within _ natively edited and stylistically inven-
the same 24 hours. tive of all the coverage we received,”

“Actually, it worked out well,” he said W&L journalism professor Robert
recalled. “We justwheeledinaTVset J. deMaria.
during the rehearsal dinner and From the beginning, Mason
watched the show right there.” wanted to strike the right balance be-

Mason interviewed at WCVE in _ tween the softer stories and those with
Richmond just at the time when the ahardnewselementand to beas up-to-
public television station was consider- the-minute as possible for a weekly
ing a half-hour news program on cur- program.
rent Virginia topics. They offered “I sometimes miss the immediacy
Mason the job, and so he packed his _ of the six o’clock news,” he admits.
bags, got engaged—his wife, Ninaisa “But here I’m basically my own boss.
1983 Hollins graduateandaRichmond John and I make all the big decisions,
native—and made the move to the and we are beginning to feel like we
Old Dominion in February oflastyear. know what we’re doing.”

As part of the deal struck with the Where they are going is a question
station, Mason also managed to bring Mason thinks has infinite possibilities.
along his cameraman, John Warner, ‘There is a “90 percent chance” that
with whom he had forgedaclosework- “Virginia Currents” will go statewide
ing relationship while at the station in this fall, and it hasn’t hurt that his
Ohio. Mason, who conducts the inter- _ ratings have doubled since the first few
views, writes and edits the script, logs shows. There is talk of going to an
the sound on to the tape, and shares _ hour-long format.

tape editing duties with Warner, cred- And all of that makes for a nice
itshiscameraman withdevelopingthe _ present for his anniversary gift.
show’s visual style. —William Cocke

 

 

 

 

UY S. BRS )SSY lives in East Hadden, Conn., with

P nd three daughters, Victoria, 5, Elizabeth,

his wife

3, and Car line, 1.

ROBERT B. EARLE works at Pepsi Corporate
ers in Somers, N.Y. He is the can indus-

Headqua

ery manager for new business development.
KURT J. FISCHER was recently named partner in
che Baltimore law firm of Piper & Marbury. He
specializes 1! eminent domain law, land use regula-
tion and state and local taxation.

MAJ. MARK E. GINEVAN is the executive officer
of the 850-person Joint Tactical Command Control

and Comn unications Agency. He is aS :
Kansas in July 1992 to attend Command and Gen-
eral Srati ( ollege.

JOHN N. H¢ )OPER is vice president of PORTA
Phone Co. Inc. of Wakefield, R.I. The company
manufactures communications systems for athletic
programs. Hooper lives in Wakefield with his wife,
Susan, and sons, John and Dan.

ANDREW A. LASSITER is an attorney in Beau-
fort, N.C. He lives in Morehead City, N.C., with his

wife, Catherine, and son, Andrew Jr., 1.

HOWARD T. PARKS was appointed director of

marketing for RJ Reynolds Tobacco International
in San Juan, Puerto Rico, in December 1991.
DR. SCOTT E. SMITH practices clinical and

sports psychology with Arundel Mental Health in
Arnold, \id. He lives in Annapolis, Md., with his
wife and two children.

DANIEL J. WEEKS read selections from his po-
etry book, X2, in between sets of the jazz group
Jazzlamic Jihad, the band for whom he plays the

drums. \Veeks’ performance was held on Feb. 25,
1992. He lives in Highlands, N.].

Law: ROBERT A. IRONS recently won the
Democratic nomination to serve as Judge of the
Circuit Court in a new circuit estiblished for Mon-
roe and Summers counties in West Virginia. Irons
has been prosecuting attorney of Monroe County
for the past eight years. Since there is no Republi-
can challenger, Irons will run unopposed in the
November General Election.

Sl
RICHARD A. BAXTER lives in West

Chester, Pa., with his wife and three children,
Chelsea, 3, R. Kyle, 2, and Lindsey Anne, 1.

PETER H. BENDA is completing a joint master’s
of business and master’s of arts degree through the
Wharton School of Business and the Lauder Insti-
tute of the University of Pennsylvania. Over Christ-
mas, he spent three weeks in India, visiting with
business and government representatives with the
Wharton India Study Tour.

GERARD L. BROCCOLI is the special projects
officer for the Army and Air Force Exchange Ser-
Vice for the Tri-Border Sales District in Germany.
He lives in Frankfurt, Germany, and is active in the
base chapel at Rhein- Main Air Base as a lay Eucha-
ristic minister, lector, and acolyte instructor.

MICHAEL J. FARRAND is an energy associate

= the consulting firm of McKinsey & Co.Inc. in
oOuston.

DR. DOUGLAS L. GAKER practices urology in
Middletown, Ohio, where he lives with his wife,
Elizabeth, and five children.

JAMES J. (MUGSY) MALONE is a certified pub-
lic accountant in private practice specializing in
insolvency bankruptcy accounting and taxation.
He lives in Rockville Center, N.Y., with his wife,
Eileen, and children, Jamie, 5, Alanna, 4, Shane,
3, and Noelle, 1.

PATRICK M. ROBINSON works in commercial
real estate with LaSalle Partners in New York City.
He lives in Darien, Conn., with his wife, Jennifer,
and children, Olivia, 2, and twins, Miller and
Helen, 1.

JOHN R. GUEST is an attorney in

Houston, where he lives with his wife and son,
Ryan, 1.

CAPT. DOUGLAS R. LINTON III recently ar-
rived at his new duty station in Fort Gordon. He
previously had been on a tour of duty in Germany.
Linton will be an instructor at the U.S. Army Signal
School.

Law: KURT J. FISCHER (see ’80).

Law: KEVIN J. GRAY is a lawyer in the firm of
Lossing & Elston in San Francisco.

Law: ERIC J. WARD was elected partner in the
law firm of Nixon, Hargrave, Devans & Doyle on
Jan. 1, 1992. Ward is a member of the firm’s
litigation practice group, and he concentrates his
practice in product liability defense, toxic exposure
litigation, and medical malpractice defense. He
lives in Pittsford, N.Y.

C. TODD HANKS was recently named

a full partner in the computer consulting firm of
Eagle Computer Management. ‘The firm is located
in Lionville, Pa., and serves clients in the Mid-
Atlantic Region.

‘THOMAS A. HARRISON, editor of the A/ied News
in Grove City, Pa., won an award from the Pennsyl-
vania Newspaper Publishers Association for best
front-page design and headlines. ‘The award, which
was for the calender year 1991, was for the category
of weekly newspapers with circulation of fewer
than 5,000. The A//ied News also won an award for
best news story.

STEWART P. KERR is manager of systems inte-
gration and design at the International ‘Telecom-
munications Satellite Organization in Washington,
D.C.

MICHAEL E. LAYNE has been promoted to
district manager for Equitable Financial Services of
Roanoke, Va. He is responsible for recruiting,
training, and sales management for 15 agents in
southwest Virginia.

MORRIS LEWIS IV is director of marketing for a
health care services company. He lives in Montville,
N.J., with his wife, Stacey, and three sons.

MICHAEL D. MAHONEY received a master’s
degree in business from Pepperdine University
on Dec. 14, 1991.

CHRISTOPHER D. SCHRAM is director of en-
tertainment and special events for Kentucky
Kingdom Amusement Park in Louisville, Ky.

STEWART R. W. SCRUGGS is owner and chef of
Zoot Restaurant in Austin, Tex. Zoot was recently
featured in Texas Monthly.

Law: DAVID P. PHIPPEN is an associate with the
Washington, D.C., law firm of Kilpatrick & Cody.

CRAIG J. CANNON recently gradu-

ated from law school at the University of Florida at
Gainesville. He hopes to move to the Atlanta or
Charlotte area.

THOMAS W. PRITCHARD is an institutional
broker for the investment firm of Johnson Rice and
Co. He lives in New Orleans with his wife, Haifleigh.

EDWIN D. VAUGHAN III is a health care analyst
for the Franciscan Health System in Aston, Pa. He
lives with his wife, Melissa, in Wilmington, Del.

MICHAEL WALSH isanassistant district attorney
in Nassau County, N.Y. He lives in West
Hempstead, N.Y., with his wife, Monica.

WARREN B. WATKINS III is vice president of
Lake Manassas Development Company and Robert
Trent Jones Golf Club. He works as development
manager, overseeing an 800 acre mixed-use devel-
opment consisting of two golf courses, offices, and
800 single family homes.

SS
STEPHEN C. HARTIGAN works as

a commercial real estate appraiser for NationsBank
in McLean, Va.

W. ROBERT PAYNE IV recently joined the
Philadelphia law firm of Post and Schell as an
associate in the general liabilities department.

DUANE C. PRESTEN III is an attorney with
King & Spalding in Atlanta.

ROD N. SANTOMASSIMO has formed his own
real estate consulting group in Tampa, Fla.

"86
L. HUNTER BENES is opening a

branch office of the Commercial Construction
Company, CMC Builders Inc., in Richmond, Va.

JACK C. BENJAMIN JR. (see W. BRETT MA-
SON, ’90).

LAWRENCE K. BREEN is an area sales manager
in the hardware division of Mueller Industries.
He’s responsible for sales and marketing efforts in
the Mid-Atlantic and southeast United States.

FREDERIC S. LeCLERCQ is traveling around
the world for a year. He recently completed clerking
for Chief U.S. District Judge Falcon B. Hawkins of
South Carolina. LeClereq will work for the Charles-
ton, S.C., law firm of Holmes and Thompson upon
his return.

STEVEN E. LOSQUADRO is a prosecutor in the
trial division of the New York County District
Attorney’s office.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 49

ANDREW P. SHAFFER received the doctor of
veterinary medicine degree from the Virginia-
Maryland Regional College of Veterinary Medi-
cine in Blacksburg, Va., on May 8, 1992. Shaffer was
also awarded the Compassionate and Caring Scholar-
ship Award, given to a “senior veterinary student
who goes above and beyond the norm to serve the
animals under his care, as well as their owners.”

Law: JANNA J. CUMMINGS began working as a
legal editor for West Publishing Co. in January. She
lives in Great Neck, N.Y., with her husband, Robert.

Law: MAJ. PHILIP L. HANRAHAN (see °76).

Law: FORREST LEE WAGNER was recently
elected vice president of the Thurston County
Young Lawyers association. Wagner lives in
Tumwater, Wash.

87
DENNIS M. FRANCIS recently took

a job as traditional women’s clothing buyer for
Carroll Reed, at their corporate headquarters in
Blue Bell, Pa. He lives in Wayne, Pa.

ABBAS W. (BILL) SAMII recently earned a
master’s degree in international relations at Cam-
bridge University. He is now pursuing a doctorate
at Cambridge. Samii lives in Cambridge, England.

ANDREW J. TARTAGLIONE graduated from
the Kirksville College of Osteopathic Medicine,
and is beginning an internship year at the Chicago
Osteopathic Hospital & Medical Center.

PETER E. VAN SON is in his second year in the
joint law and master’s of business administration
degree program at St. John’s University in New
York. He lives in Lloyd Harbor, N.Y.

G. PAIGE WINGERT was recently selected for
membership in the Woolsack Honor Society at the
Dickinson School of Law. Membership is limited
to members who rank in the top 15 percent of their
class.

Law: SARAH Y. M. KIRBY has joined the Rich-
mond, Va., law firm of Sands, Anderson, Marks, and
Miller as an associate. She will practice in the areas
of workers compensation and civil litigation.

Law:MARY CELESTE MOFFATT was recently
named a partner in the law firm of Moore, Stout,
Waddell & Ledford. Moffatt practices in the areas
of commercial litigation and bankruptcy. She lives
in Kingsport, Tenn.

Law: MICHAEL S. SPEAKMAN has become an
associate with the Auburn, Ala., law firm of Haygood,
Cleveland and Pierce. He makes his home in Au-
burn.

Es

student at the University of Georgia School of Law.
WYATT P. E. BASSETT is assistant sales man-
ager for U-B/Williams Furniture Co. He lives in
Galax, Va.

PHILIP S. (CHIP) BROOKS JR. (see W. BRETT
MASON, ’90).

JAMES P. COTTER is in his third year of teaching
at Chaminade High School in Mineola, N.Y.

50 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Gone fishin’

DARLING, ’88, TRIES LIFE As
A Pro FISHERMAN

Ross Darling, ’88, dreamed of it
often from his desk at the bank: the
sunlight splashing off the stream, his
boat drifting on gentle waters, and his
line taut with another big bass. It’s what
many think of as an ideal retirement
picture. But Darling decided he didn’t
want to wait until he was 65 to spend all
of his time fishing. Instead, he hopes to
make fishing his career.

Last year, Darling quit his job as a
bank loan officer in order to pursue his
lifetime wish of becoming a profes-
sional angler. After a year of studying
the fresh waters of Virginia and North
Carolina—in essence, doing the pre-
liminary research to study his future
career—Darling now spends his days
trying to earn his keep ona professional
bass-fishing tour.

Now, instead of studying personal
financial statements, Darling is “learn-
ing to read the water” and looking for
concentrations of bass and determining
how bass respond to different lures un-
der changing conditions. During the
seven-month season, Darling competes
in tournaments run by several national
bass-fishing organizations. In the one-
day events, anglers are allowed to fish
any place they can reach in their boat
during the prescribed hours of compe-
tition. Atthe end of the day, the anglers
weigh their five largest bass, and the
one with the most total pounds of fish
wins. The goal, then, is to catch large
bass.

“Larger fish stay tight tocover,” he
explains with the ease he used to talk
about mortgages, “especially on sunny
days.” Darling uses his homework to
find those hiding places where the big
fish escape from the sun.

Darling began fishing with his
uncle. “I’ve always liked to fish for
anything,” he says. During his time at
W&L, he fished the Maury River, which

Darling hopes fish like this take him to the big
leagues of professional bass fishing.

he judges to have good fishing, and
sought trout out in Goshen Pass. He
said his college days only fostered that
passion for fresh-water fishing. Now,
he’s trying to turn that passion into
profits.

Darling’s biggest challenge this
season will be the first of seven Bass
Master Invitational qualifying tourna-
ments. If he fares well there, he plans
to compete in later qualifying tourna-
ments in hopes of making it to the Bass
Master Classic. “It’s the Super Bowl of
bass fishing,” Darling explains.

Looking for big bass isn’t the only
type of fishing Darling’s new career
entails. Even more elusive than the big
fish is the big sponsor, someone who
can help Darling with the expenses.

“That is one of the most difficult
parts of being on the professional tour,”
he admits.

If his search for a sponsor is suc-
cessful, Darling could spend years fish-
ing before retirement as well as after.
“This is my dream,” he says.

—Kimberly Marcott, ’93

    

TRO OM FES Pe eee :

ta ae
es
‘a:

 

 

 

-

 

(>. DUNN JR. isa sales representative

|
os e Endo-surgery, a division of Johnson &
Johnso! - lives in Lexington, Ky.
JOHN ENTRY JR. is a first-year business
studen e University of Texas at Austin Gradu-
ate Sch Business. He lives in Austin with his
wife, 5:
BRAD! () M. HAIR is project manager for the
Brisban stralia, division of ADS Environmen-
tal Sers inc. ADS is the largest environmental
firm in | in water-flow monitoring. Hair lives
in Bris! with his wife, Jan. The couple was
married in ! ’ecember 1990.
WILL! (. HARTLEY recently received his
medica corate from the Medical College of
Virginia. He begins a residency in orthopaedic
surgery inderbilt University in July.
GARY \\. SCHOTT is working on a master’s of
science ree in systematics and ecology at the
Univers f Kansas in Lawrence, Kan.
C. RUSSELL H. SHEARER graduated from Wid-
ener law school in May, and is pursuing a master of
laws de in environmental law from Tulane
Universic, inthe fall. He recently spent four months
in Nairobi. Kenya, working for the United Nations
Environmental Program. He specialized in the trans-
bounda ovement of hazardous waste.
ROBER | E. (BUCKY) STRAUCH is working on
his teacher certification and a degree in secondary
education at Montana State University.
CHAR!.):S W. UPCHURCH works for Henry
Sprott |. ong & Associates in Birmingham, Ala. He
recently received a degree in architecture from
Auburn  niversity.
JOHN &. WHITE recently received a master of
science dcgreein geological oceanography from the
Florida | nsctitute of Technology. He is pursuing a
second master of science degree, in coastal zone
management, from the same institution.

89
“ ALLAN R. DICK JR. is president of

Pennsy\vania Property Management Inc. in
Hazleton, Pa.

G. BRADLEY GOTTSEGEN (see THOMAS E.
GOT TSEGEN, ’91).

JOH \. LEGTERS deployed with the 24th
Marine |’xpeditionary Unit to the Mediterranean.
The unit, which is based at Camp Lejeune, N.C.,
Startc” 1 six-month stint in the Mediterranean in
Febru

HEN H. MAYER III was recently promoted to
financ\.| quality control manager at MSO Inc., a
Ship operating company in Rockville, Md. The
Company manages commercial and government
ocean -coing vessels.

J. ED\VARD MILLER and R.J. THOMAS,’90,
are li, ng in the Los Angeles area and are working
On rescarch for a documentary about local exotic
folk . ncing.

KA’! {ERINE W. NELLIGAN is a Spanish
teach; and tennis coach for Episcopal High School
in Alcxandria, Va. She is taking a group of students
to Spain this summer.

MARK ‘T. NEWMAN is an investment advisor for
the Wall Street firm of D.H. Blair & Co. He recently
returned from a trip that took him through fourteen
countries around Europe.

MARGARET PIMBLETT was media director for
Georgia’s pro-choice “Celebrate Your Freedom of
Choice” rally in January.

CATHLEEN M. TIERNAN graduated from the
University of North Carolina School of Law in May.
She is now in New York City, where she is an
associate with the firm of Brown & Wood.

FRANK M. SANDS JR. has been working with his
father on the founding of Sands Capital Manage-
ment, an investment management firm. He will be
starting business school at the University of Vir-
ginia in the fall.

90)
KRIS AMOROSO is a computer pro-

gramer and analyst for the Internal Revenue Ser-
vice. She lives in Vienna, Va.

W. BRANDON CANADAY is human resources
manager with B.F. Goodrich Aerospace Compo-
nent Overhaul & Repair Inc. in Austin, Texas, and
Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Canaday lives in Austin.

R. SCOTT CORNELL recently completed his
second year of medical school at the University of
Louisville. He ran in the Pittsburgh Marathon this
year.

CHARLES S. CONKLIN III will enter Georgia
State’s School of Law in the fall.

CRAIG B. DAVIS recently finished his first year of
law school at the University of Richmond.

B. DALLAS HAGEWOOD is a financial systems
consultant with Arthur Andersen & Co. in Atlanta.
She is also involved with the Alumni Admissions
Program in Atlanta.

JAMES J. HARBER III is taking classes at the
University of Georgia with an eye toward applying
to medical school for the entering class of 1993.

ALICE L. HARRELL exhibited herart work atthe
Zeus Gallery Cafe in Richmond, Va., during the
month of April.

‘THOMAS I. HAYES III is a cost accountant for
Third National Bank in Nashville, Tenn. He will
attend Vanderbilt University’s Graduate School of
Management in the fall.

CAROLINE C. JENNINGS is a branch manager
and officer with First Union National Bank in
Jacksonville, Fla.

PEARSON N. KEYES owns Creative Contours
Landscape Design Company in Northern Virginia.
The company recently won the Barcroft Award for
Design. Keyes lives in Arlington, Va.

W. BRETT MASON recently finished his second
year of law school at Tulane University, where
JACK BENJAMIN, ’86; CHIP BROOKS, ’88; and
classmates PETER WANEK and JIM
BUSENLENER also attend.

TODD C. PEPPERS will attend the University of
Illinois in the fall, pursuing a doctorate in political
science.

CHRISTOPHER O. SMYTHE recently finished
his second year of law school at the University of
Virginia.

G. ELIZABETH STUTZMAN works in account
management at Warwick, Baker & Fiore Advertising
in New York City.

M. KENT SUTTLE is cash manager for the Coca-
Cola International European Treasury. She lives in
London.

G. MASON VAN SCIVER works in sales for
GELCO Space, a GE Capital Company in Phila-
delphia.

R.J. THOMAS (see J. EDWARD MILLER, ’89).

JUSTIN S. WALKER recently completed a role in
his second off-Broadway play, The Best of Schools, at
UBU Repertory company. He worked as an under-
study in Neil Simon’s Lost in Yonkers \ast fall.
Walker lives in New York City.

D. WOODFORD WEBB JR. recently received a
master’s degree in business administration from
the University of Kentucky.

A. RUSSELL WILKERSON III is working for
U.S. Sen. JOHN W. WARNER, ’49, in Washing-
ton, D.C. Wilkerson lives in Alexandria, Va.

KIMBERLY S. WILKINSON recently finished
her first year of medical school at the University of
Tennessee in Memphis.

PAUL T. WILLIAMSON recently finished his
second year of law school at the University of
Texas.

Law: ANNE MARIE D’ERRICO is an associate
with the law firm of d’Oliveira & Morgan in East
Providence, R.I. She belongs to the Massachusetts
and Rhode Island Bar Associations.

Law: JEANNE W. HAMRICK isan associate with
the Albuquerque, N.M., law firm of Behles-Giddens,
P.A. She practices bankruptcy law and commercial
litigation.

"O]
R. SCOTT BELL isa loan accountant

for the U.S. Small Business Administration in Wash-
ington, D.C.

KIMBERLY E. BOOTH, AMY MILES, and
ELEANOR ROBINSON are living together and
working in Washington, D.C. Booth works for the
Public Affairs Office of the Justice Department,
Miles works for the Public Affairs Office of the
National Museum of American Art, and Robinson
is a program assistant at The Bruce Co., an environ-
mental consulting firm in Washington, D.C., that works
with the Environmental Protection Agency.

MICHAEL D. DeMELF'I is working for Gelco
Space, a General Electric company in Washington,
D.C. He lives in Annapolis, Md.

KYRA T. DRAVES is a staff accountant with Strack
Hartmann, P.C., a public accounting firm in
Bethesda, Md.

LAUREL E. EMPIE is working in Atlanta as a
sales assistant at Oppenheimer & Co. brokerage
firm. She lives in Acworth, Ga.

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 51

STEPHANIE A. FITZGERALD works for the
Secretary of Education in the Office of Scheduling,
Advance & Briefing.

JAMES L. (BEAU) FOWLER is a student at the
Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston.

LISA K. FRANTZ recently joined the staff of The
Retired Officer Magazine, as an editorial assistant. She
lives in Alexandria, Va.

S. ANDREW GAFFNEY is in the management
training program at Trust Co. Bank in Atlanta.

GREGORY J. GOLDEN works for the President’s
Dinner, a Republican Party fundraising group, in
Washington, D.C.

THOMAS E. GOTTSEGEN is operating a new
business in New Orleans with his brother, BRAD
GOTTSEGEN, ’89. He is planning on attending
graduate school in journalism in the fall.

GARY H. GREEN II recently finished his first year
of law school at Harvard University. He works this
summer at the Los Angeles office of the law firm of
Pillsbury, Madison & Sutro.

AMYC. HATCHER hasearned a master’s in journal-
ism from Indiana University. She also received a
Reader’s Digest Fellowship for Reporting the Arts.

WILLIAM E. HOEHN III is a research assistant
for Defense Budget Project, a Capitol Hill think-
tank. He is working toward a master’s in international
security policy at George Washington University.

AMANDA P. HUGHEN is teaching English in
Costa Rica under the direction of WorldTeach Inc.
She began her work in Costa Rica in February.

KATHERINE L. KREUTZIGER recently fin-
ished her first year of medical school at Louisiana
State University medical school in New Orleans.

MARK W. LOTRUGLIO is pursuing a master’s
degree in business administration at Pennsylvania
State University.

RACHELLE B. NOCK works as an accountant
with the U.S. Small Business Administration in
Washington, D.C. She took the certified public
accountant exam in May 1992.

‘TARA H. PERKINSON works in the Senate of the
Virginia General Assembly. She lives in Richmond.

TRAVIS L. SHAW is in his second year of teaching
English at two high schools in Nishinomiya, Japan.

CHRISTOPHER J. SMITH has finished his first
year of law school at the University of Baltimore.

Law: J. AMY G. DILLARD works in the Alexan-
dria, Va., Public Defender’s office.

Law: ROBERT L. GALBREATH is an associate
in the law firm of Allen, Moline & Harold. He
specializes in communications law and practices
before the FCC in Washington, D.C.

Law: FELICIA H. JOHNSON is an administra-
tive law judge with the Virginia Employment Com-
mission in Norfolk, Va. -

Law: HOLLY YOUNG is an associate in the law

firm of James A. Hartman, P.A. She makes her
home in Orlando, Fla.

52 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

Marriages

 

JAMES C. CONNER, ’54, and Karla Edmands on
Sept. 6, 1991. The couple lives in Arlington, Va.
Conner recently rejoined the legal department of
the International Finance Corp. of the World Bank
Group after 16 years of private law practice. He
practices in financing private enterprise in member
countries, primarily in Asia and the Pacific Region.

HENRY L.HILLSJR.,’70, and Carol Volk, on Jan.
2, 1992, in New Orleans. The couple lives in New
York City, where Hills is an independent filmmaker.

CLIFFORD T. (KIP) GORDON, ’82, and Lori
Ann Sobolak, on Jan. 25, 1992, in Louisville, Ky.
The wedding party included classmate George
Carey. The couple lives in Louisville, where the
groom works for PepsiCo.

DR. SCOTT T. HOWELL, ’82, and Ann Taylor
on May 18, 1991 in Edenton, N.C. The couple lives
in Durham, N.C., where Howell works in pharma-
ceutical development.

PAUL A. MAURER, ’83, and Trish Keaveney, on
Sept. 8, 1991, in Greenwich, Conn. The couple
lives in Wilmington, Del.

C. DAVID SCHROEDER, ’84, and Lisa R. Wood,
on June 5, 1992, in Merano, Italy. The couple lives
in Houston.

MICHAEL J. BLACK, ’86, and Martina Else Kern,
on Aug. 12, 1991, in Berlin. The couple lives in
Berlin, where Black has opened a New Orleans-style
jazz club in an old Nazi bunker in East Berlin.

LOUISE MARIE DiMATTEO,’89L, and Michael
R. Megargee, on May 11, 1991. The couple lives in
Arlington, Va., where the bride is an assistant public
defender in Fairfax County.

FRAMPTON L. HARPER, ’89, and Mary Heyward
Stevens, on Aug. 31, 1991, in Beaufort, S.C. The
wedding party included classmates Emmanuel
Klump, Lee Brading, David Thompson, and Lou
Trosch. The couple lives in Columbia, S.C., where
Harper is in his third year of law school at the
University of South Carolina School of Law.

SUSAN LEWIS, ’89, and Dennis Morris, on Dec.
14, 1991. The wedding party included classmates
Catherine Council, Cheryl Barrett, Courtney
Harpold, Elizabeth Cummins, and Kevin Struthers.
The couple lives in Charlottesville, Va., where the
bride is senior editor of children’s books for
Betterway Publications.

MICHAEL D. TUGGLE, ’89, and Virginia Pratka,
on Dec. 28, 1991, in Houston. The wedding party
included classmates Rich Householder and Christie
Davis. The couple lives in Atlanta, where Tuggle
is employed by The Earle Palmer Brown Agency.

JONATHAN WALL, ’89L, and Ashley Farlow, on
Jan. 18, 1992. The wedding party included Mat-
thew Pappas, ’88L; Brian Dougherty, ’89L; T.R.
Wall IV, ’80; and T.R. Wall III, ’54. The couple
lives in Washington, D.C., where Wall works for the
Association of Trial Lawyers of America.

FREDERICK B. KIECKHEFER, ’90, and
Deanna Dawn Thielen on Jan. 18, 1992, in Alex-
andria, Va. The wedding party included class-

mates David Olsen, Adam Morgan, and Tom
Hayes. The couple lives in Vienna, Va., where
Kieckhefer is a finance executive with Hecht’s
Division of the May Co.

births

MR. AND MRS. JEFFREY T. BRIGGS, ’68, a
daughter, Lucy Deborah, on Nov. 4, 1991. She
joins a brother, Patrick, 19. The family lives in
Hopewell Junction, N.Y.

 

 

 

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT A. DOLL, ’74, a
daughter, Rebecca Graves, on Oct. 21, 1991. She
joins sisters Virginia, 10, and Elizabeth, 8. The
family lives in Louisville, Ky.

MR. AND MRS. DARRELL W. La PRADE, 75,
a daughter, Eleanor Campbell, on Jan. 11, 1992.
She joins two brothers, Konrad, 10, and Tucker, 6,

The family lives near Richmond, Va., where
LaPrade is vice president of Atlantic Publications Inc.

MR. AND MRS. FRANK L. DUEMMLER, ’76,
a son, Stephen Walker, on Jan. 15, 1992. Duemmler
works for Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. in
New York. The family lives in Riverside, Conn.

MR. AND MRS. JULIAN J. NEXSEN JR.,’76, a
daughter, Sarah Ivey, on Jan. 31, 1992. She joins
Kincaid, 6, and Julian, 4. The family lives in
Greenwood, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES M. UNDERHILL, ’78,
a daughter, Elizabeth Baihly, on Sept. 26, 1991.
She joins a brother, Thomas, 2.

MR. AND MRS. HERBERT R. DONICA, ’79L,
their first child, Andrew Roy, on Oct. 11, 1991. The
family lives in Tampa, Fla., where Donica is a
partner in the law firm of Evans & Donica, P.A.

DR. AND MRS. STEPHEN D. STAHL, ’79, a
daughter, Sarah Elizabeth, on Jan. 7, 1992. She joins
brothers William and Christopher. The family lives
in Mt. Pleasant, Mich. Stahl is the Geology Depart-
ment chairman at Central Michigan University.

MR. AND MRS. EDWARD L. BOWIE JR., ’80,a
daughter, Taylor DeChant, on Jan. 9, 1992. She
joins a sister, Hilary. The family lives in Burke, Va.

MR. AND MRS. COVERT JAMES GEARY, ’80,
a daughter, Claire Wendland, on Feb. 8, 1992. The
family lives in New Orleans.

MR. AND MRS. KENNETH R. ROBSON III,
’80, a son, James “Andrew,” on April 19, 1991. The
family lives in Altadena, Calif.

MR. AND MRS. W. KEITH SANFORD, ’80, a
daughter, Julia Bryan, in April 1991. She joins
brothers Charles, 5, and Phillips, 2. The family lives
in Lookout Mountain, Tenn.

MR. AND MRS. CHARLES B. STROME III, ’80,
a son, Carl Bowman, on Jan. 6, 1992. He joins a
sister, Nicole, 3. The family lives in Hartsdale, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT D. BINDER, ’81,
their first child, Mitchell Lee, on Sept. 19, 1991.
The family lives in Harrisburg, Pa., where Binder is
compensation manager of GTE’s telephone opera-
tions in Pennsylvania.

 

MR. AND MRS. R. DON RIGGER JR., ’81, a son,
l ‘ers, on June 19, 1991. He joins a sister,

letch Ros

Sis 1 Che family lives in Decatur, Ga.

MR. AND MRS. VINCENT W. ROSPOND II,
*g1. a daughter, Alexandra Loretta, on Aug. 17,
1991. She joins a brother, Felix Brandon. Rospond
is president and CEO of The Armada Investment
Group. The family lives in West Orange, N.J.
MR.AND MRS. WILLIAM D.CLARK,’82,adaugh-
ter, Hannah Elizabeth, on Oct. 14, 1991. The family
lives in Charlotte, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. JOSEPH L. FANT IV, ’83, a
daughter, Emily Anne Todd, on Dec. 20, 1991. She
Hutton, 2. The family lives in Atlanta.

joins a siste
ce president at New Market LTO.

Fant is 2

MR. AND MRS. BRUCE A. SAMMIS, ’82, a
daughter, Parker Mason, on Nov. 8, 1991. She joins
sisters Perri and Paige. ‘The family lives in Dallas.
MR. AND MRS. DeWITT CARUTHERS, ’83, a
daughter, \largaret Starr, on Jan. 22, 1992. She joins a
sister, Clara, 3. The family lives in Shreveport, La.

MR. AND MRS. HOWARD H. SMITH, ’83, their

first child, Carson Elizabeth, on Sept. 7, 1991. The
family lives in Orlando, Fla., where Smith is vice
president of marketing for Nickelodeon Studios.

MR. AND MRS. KEVIN Y. BERGER, ’84, their
first child, Alexander Barnes, on Aug. 20, 1991, in
Sacramento, Calif. ‘The family lives in Elk Grove.

MR. AND MRS. FORREST N. JENKINS II, ’84,
a daughter, Janet Cotter, on Feb. 18, 1992. The
family lives in Columbia, S.C.

MR. AND \MIRS.JAMESD. KAYJR.,’85L, adaugh-
ter, Caroline Christine, on Aug. 9, 1991.

MR. AND MRS. DANIEL L. TATUM, ’85, their
first child, laura Lindsay, on March 11, 1992. The
family lives in Fort Worth, Texas, where Tatum is an
attorney with Bishop, Payne, Williams & Werley.

MR. AND MRS. BRUCE L. CASTOR JR., ’86L,
their first child, Bruce Lee II. The family lives in
Souderton, Pa., where Castor was recently named
deputy district attorney for Montgomery County, a
suburb of Philadelphia.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES G. RENFRO JR., ’86, a
daughter, Helen Kathryn, on Dec. 25, 1991. The
family lives in Hickory, N.C.

TERRI G. AMERNICK, ’87L, and her husband,
MARK YACANO, ’88L, a son, Benjamin Lewis, on

Nov. 25, 1991. The family lives in Cleveland
Heights, Ohio, where Amernick is an attorney with
Jones, Day, Reavis, and Pogue. Yacanoisan attomey
with Calfee, Halter and Griswold in Cleveland.

MR. AND MRS. JOSEPH B. KRASTEL, ’87,
their first child, Joseph Ryan, on Nov. 7, 1991. The
family lives in Baltimore.

DEBORAH TITUS LYND, ’87L, and Thomas
Lynd, ‘aughter, Colleen Marie, on Dec. 16, 1991.
The family lives in Rochester, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. MARK D. OBENSHAIN, ’87L,
a daug! ter, Anne Tucker, on Sept. 21, 1991. The
family lives in McGaheysville, Va. Obenshain is a
Partner in the Harrisonburg, Va., law firm of Wharton
Aldhiser & Weaver.

MR. AND MRS. ANDREW B. PRESCOTT, ’87L,
a son, Andrew Bryant II, on June 21, 1991. The
family lives in Providence, R.I.

In Memoriam

 

 

CARROLL B. WILTSHIRE, ’13, former Com-
missioner of Revenue for Lynchburg, Va., on Feb.
7,1992. After graduating from W&L with a degree
in chemistry in 1913, he spent five years in charge
of the laboratory of Kellogg Toasted Cornflakes
Co. He served for a time in the Army, and then
worked for DuPont doing dye research. He re-
turned to his native Lynchburg and was associated
with a local furniture company for seven years.
After working as a deputy commissioner in the
revenue office, Wiltshire was elected commissioner
for four consecutive terms, serving from 1949 until
1966. He was an active member of Court Street
United Methodist Church, a board member of the
Miller Home for 32 years, and a past member of the
Lions Club, YMCA, Lynchburg Bird Club, and
Lynchburg Art Club.

TILEY H. SCOVELL JR., °19, former chairman
of the board of Scovell Oil Co., on Oct. 31, 1991,
in Deland, Fla. He was past president of the
Deland Chamber of Commerce and past chairman
of the West Volusia Hospital Authority.

J. VAUGHN PENN, ’23, former vice president of
a family apparel manufacturing company, in Janu-
ary 1992, in New Rochelle, N.Y. While at W&L,
he was a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity,
president of the senior class, and a member of Phi
Beta Kappa. After graduation, he began working
for Gen-Dandy Inc., a North Carolina-based ap-
parel company created by his father. In 1928, he
expanded the company’s operations by opening
the New York sales office, which he directed until
his retirement in 1972. He was a member of the
Larchmont Yacht Club and the Winged Foot Golf
Club, and attended the Larchmont Avenue Pres-
byterian Church for more than 50 years.

JOHN G. GUERRANT, ’24, retired president and
chairman of the board of Virginia Paper Co., on
Dec. 17, 1991. While at W&L, he was a member of
the Kappa Alpha fraternity. After graduation, he
began a 44-year career at Virginia Paper, a paper
products wholesale company. Guerrant began in
the sales department, became first vice president
in 1952, and was elected president in 1960. He was
president for seven years and continued for one
more year as chairman of the board and chief
executive officer until retirement in 1968. He was
a member of the Sons of the Revolution in Virginia,
and a member of the First Presbyterian Church in
Richmond.

WILLIAM R. COSBY, ’26L, owner of a Rich-
mond, Va., storage firm, on Jan. 5, 1992. Cosby
attended the University of Richmond before
graduating from W&L Law School. He practiced
law in Florida for several years before moving to
Chicago, where he worked in investment securities.
In 1944, he began handling the family business, W.G.
Cosby Transfer and Storage Corp., in Richmond.
Cosby was an elder at Overbrook Presbyterian
Church, and a member of several Richmond civic
and social organizations.

FREDERICK W. DISMUKE, ’26, retired recy-
cling executive, on Feb. 8, 1992. Dismuke gradu-

ated from Georgia Tech after attending W&L, and
worked for J.T. Knight and Son, a scrap-iron firm in
Columbus, Ga. He retired as chairman of the board
of the firm in the late 1960s. Dismuke’s concern
with the environment extended to his hobbies as
well, as he was a noted organic gardener, in his
words “using tools given us by nature and return-
ing to the soil as much, or more, than we take from
it.” He even used ladybugs, instead of chemicals,
to rid his gardens of pests. Dismuke was also a fine
golfer. He was a former board member of First
National Bank in Columbus, a member of the
Kiwanis Club, Rotary Club, the Country Club of
Columbus, and the City Club of Atlanta. He was
also a member of St. Paul’s Methodist Church.

JAMES P. BUMGARDNER, ’27L, former coun-
sel and vice president of Southern Title Insurance
Co., on Feb. 23, 1992, in Knoxville, Tenn.

ROBERT P. LONDON JR., ’27, chairman of Lon-
don Hardware Co., on Feb. 25, 1992, in Johnson
City, Tenn. He was a member of the Phi Gamma
Delta fraternity while at W&L. After graduation,
he was associated with the London Hardware Co.,
a wholesale-retail hardware company owned by his
family. London eventually became chairman,
president and treasurer for the family business. He
served on the Selective Service Board during World
War II, served on the Urban Renewal Commission
and the Salvation Army Board, and was a Rotarian.
He was a director of First Peoples Bank and a
member of the Administrative Board of Munsey
Memorial United Methodist Church.

HUBERT L. ECHOLS, ’30L, contractor, on Nov.
4, 1991, in Staunton, Va. Echols attended the
University of Virginia and Vanderbilt University
before graduating from the Washington and Lee
School of Law. While at W&L, he was a member
of Delta Tau Delta fraternity. He worked for the
Legal Division of the Department of Agriculture,
and was associated with Echols Brothers Inc., the
family construction business, as treasurer and
president. Echols was a member of Trinity Epis-
copal Church and a former member of the Board of
Directors of Dominion Bankshares in Glasgow, Va.

ARTHUR W. PHELPS, ’31, former dean of the
College of William and Mary law school, on Nov.
23, 1991, in Williamsburg, Va. He graduated magna
cum laude from W&L, and went on to get a master’s
degree in psychology and education from Ohio
State, a law degree from the University of Cincin-
nati, and a master of law degree from Columbia
University in 1940. He worked as a coordinator of
price interpretation for the government during
World War II, and later became chief counsel of
the Petroleum Price Division in Washington, D.C.
He began teaching law at William and Mary in the
1950s, eventually becoming dean of the law school
before his retirement in 1974. He helped establish
the Law Review and wrote numerous books on
Virginia law. He was an honorary member of Phi
Beta Kappa, a member of the Virginia Bar Associa-
tion, the Middle Plantation Club, Rotary Interna-
tional, the Association for the Preservation of Vir-
ginia Antiquities, and the Williamsburg Bridge
Club.

JOSEPH C. CONNER, ’33, printer, on Oct. 13,
1991. While at W&L, he was a member of Alpha
Chi Rho. He worked as telegraph editor for two
newspapers until 1946, before beginning his own
printing business. He continued in the printing
business until he retired in 1978, turning the print-
ing enterprise over to his son. Conner was mayor
of the town of Bloomsburg, Pa., for eight years, and

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 53

served on numerous civic boards and foundations.

WILLIAM F. METHVIN, ’33, on Oct. 4, 1991, in
Atlanta. While at W&L, he was a member of Pi
Kappa Phi social fraternity. He was the owner of a
wholesale lumber company in Atlanta. He served
on the board of directors for the Allatoona Yacht
Club and was a past president of the Adlanta Civitan
Club. Methvin had a brief career in professional
baseball before beginning his business career.

ROBERT B. SHIVELY, ’34, automobile dealer,
on April 7, 1992. While at W&L, he was a member
of Pi Kapa Phi fraternity. After graduation, he
worked at Commercial Credit Corp. for five years
and then became owner-manager of Shively Mo-
tors, a dealership in his hometown of Cham-
bersburg, Pa., for 44 years. In addition to his
businesses, in which he received many citations
and honors, he was very active in community af-
fairs. He played major roles in the local hospital,
was a trustee at Wilson College (from which he
received an honorary degree), and served in the
local Chamber of Commerce. He retired in 1983
and lived in Chambersburg until his death.

CLYDE D. TOLLEY, ’34, former Rockbridge
County school teacher, on Feb. 19, 1992, in Lex-
ington. Tolley was a retired farmer and a member
of Bethesda Presbyterian Church, in which he
served as an elder and taught Sunday school for
many years. He wasa native of Rockbridge County.

ALLEN M. HARRELSON JR., 35, in Tarpon
Springs, Fla., on April 3, 1992. At W&L, Harrelson
was selected to Phi Beta Kappa and was a member
of Delta Tau Delta fraternity. He joined the Navy
in 1942 and was discharged as a lieutenant com-
mander in 1947. Harrelson served in various finan-
cial positions with several firms during his career,
including Haskins & Sells, Cincinnati; Peat,
Marwick, Mitchell & Co., Scaife Co., and H.K.
Porter Co., all in Pittsburgh. He had executive and
board positions with Crane Co., New York; Bendix
Corp., Southfield, Mich.; and Midland Ross Corp.,
Cleveland. Harrelson enjoyed golf memberships
at some of America’s finest clubs, including
Oakmont Country Club in Pennsylvania, Winged
Foot Country Club in New York, Oakland Hills
Country Club in Michigan, and Innisbrook Resort
and Golf Club in Florida. Harrelson retired in
1980.

JOHN D. SPOHR, ’35, retired sales manager, on
Feb. 6, 1992, at his home in Barnstable, Mass.
While at W&L, he was a member of the Delta
Upsilson fraternity. He served as a lieutentant
commander in the Navy during World War II. In
1956, he began working for Fleet Wing Oil Corp.,
acompany for whom he would work for the next 18
years, retiring as a district sales manager for Michi-
gan, Ohio, and Indiana. He then worked for five
years as personnel director at Entrekin Computer
Corp. in New Jersey. He moved to Barnstable,
Mass., in 1974, where he was a past president of the
Grubbers Garden Club and a former trustee of
Sturgis Library.

CHARLES W. STULL, ’35, on Dec. 16, 1991. He
was past vice president of Liberty Limestone Corp.
in Virginia.

CHARLES K. HAUKE, ’37, accountant in De-
troit, on Jan. 5, 1992. While at W&L, he was a
member of the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity, and
he eventually graduated from Wabash College in
Detroit, through their night school program. He
enlisted as a glider pilot during World War II, but

54 W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE

became a combat infantryman with the Ist Divi-
sion when the glider unit was disbanded. His in-
terest in flying would continue throughout his life,
as he earned a pilot’s license for engine-driven
planes and also began piloting gliders. Hauke
competed in three national glider championships
and founded Michigan’s first glider club in 1952.
He worked as an accountant with many small com-
panies in the Detroit area. He had his own C.P.A.
firm.

EDWARD E. STOVER, ’37L, attorney, on Feb. 5,
1992, in Washington, N.J. Stover began practicing
law in Washington, N.J., in 1938, and continued
until his retirement in July 1991. He was a member
and past president of the Warren County Bar Assoc.,
a member of the New Jersey State Bar, and the
American Bar Assoc., and a past member of the
New Jersey State Judiciary Committee. He was
former Washington Borough attorney and attorney
for Franklin Township in Warren County. He was
a past master of Mansfield Lodge 36, a director of
the former First National Bank, and a board member
of First Fidelity Bank. He was the first Eagle Scout
in Warren County. Stover was also a past deacon
and elder of First Presbyterian Church.

JAMES F. CUNNINGHAM, ’41, former journa-
list, on Nov. 16, 1991. He was a member of the
Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity while at W&L, then
attended the University of Missouri School of Jour-
nalism. He served in the U.S. Army Air Corps
during World War II. After serving in the Pacific
theater, he lived in Latin America for a year. He
graduated from Missouri in 1947, then studied
Spanish and Portuguese at the Latin American
Institute in New York. From 1948-57, he worked in
Washington, D.C., as a staff correspondent for UPI,
covering events of special interest to UPI client
newspapers in the Caribbean. He lived in the
Carribbean from 1957-59, covering political devel-
opments including Fidel Castro’s rise to power. He
then moved to Honolulu, and became a columnist
for the Honolulu Advertiser, covering aerospace sto-
ries. He retired in 1976, but worked with the
Hawaii Employers Council as a writer and editor for
several years after retiring from the newspaper.

CLINTON VAN VLIET, ’41, ’47L, attorney, on
Feb. 7, 1992. While at W&L, he was a member of
the Delta Upsilon fraternity. World War II in-
terrupted his intermediate year between undergrad
and law school, as he served in the Army Air Force.
After he graduated in 1947, he returned to his native
Cleveland, and entered the field of insurance in-
vestigation and litigation. He moved to Point
Pleasant, N.J., in 1969, where he was a member of
the Point Pleasant Presbyterian Church.

DR. W. SCOTT GILMER, ’42, former pathologist
and retired medical school instructor, on Feb. 14,
1992, in Kilmarnock, Va. Gilmer was a member of
the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity at W&L. He
received his medical degree from the Medical Col-
lege of Virginia in 1945, and completed residencies
at Erlanger Hospital in Chattanooga, Tenn., the
Medical College of Virginia, and the University of
Virginia. He had teaching positions at the Univer-
sity of Virginia in the early 1950s, the University of
Tennessee from 1952 until 1962, the University of
North Carolina until 1965, and the University of
Mississippi until 1970. He was a pathologist for a
hospital in Memphis, Tenn., and two hospitals in
Fayetteville, N.C., before becoming the pathologist
for Stuart Circle Hospital from 1970 until 1973. He
was a consultant for numerous hospitals, and served
on several medical boards, including the Ameri-
can Board of Pathology in 1953. He retired in 1973.

 

 

Mary Monroe Penick

1906-1992

Mary Monroe Penick, founder of the
Rockbridge Concert- Theatre Seriesand
daughter of former W&L trustee and
treasurer Paul McNeal Penick, on May
4, 1992, in Roanoke, Va. Penick, who
was 86, had been a music teacher in
the local public schools and the music
director of the Lexington Presbyte-
A 1926 graduate of
Hollins College, she received the

rian Church.

unique distinction of being awarded
the Algernon Sydney Sullivan award
from both Hollins and Washington
and Lee. ‘The award recognizes ex-
cellence in high ideals, spiritual qual-
ities, and generous and distinguished
service to others. She received the
Sullivan award from W&L in 1948 and
from Hollins in 1960. W&L also
awarded an honorary doctor of fine
arts to her in 1973, becoming one of
the first women to be honored by
W&L with an honorary degree. She
founded the RCTS in 1945, and it
continues to thrive today. Upon her
retirement in 1977 from her duties at
the Lexington Presbyterian Church,
she was honored with an endowment
fund for the RCTS. Miss Penick also
served as director on the board of the
Historic Lexington Foundation, rais-
ing significant contributions and
leading efforts to restore the down-

town area in the early 1970s.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
     
 
 
 

A ee ee

ery le ei eee ee ee

 

 

 

member of St. Stephen’s Epsicopal

was 4
ech in Richmond, where he taught Sunday
school. He also served as president of the

Northumberland Chapter of the American Cancer
Society, Virginia Division, for which he received
an award for outstanding volunteer service.

T. RAMSAY TAYLOR, °42, retired advertising
manager for the USF&G Corp., on Jan. 28, 1992.
He served in the Marines during World War I,
earning a purple heart for being wounded while in
the Pacific. After the war, he was a lieutenant
colone! in the Marine Corps Reserve. ‘Taylor
began working for USF&G in the late 1940s, and
retired in the late 1970s. He was a member of the
Sons of the American Revolution and the Virgin-
ians of Maryland, and was a lay reader at Trinity

Episcopal Church.

VIRGIL C. ADAMS, ’43, Florida banker, on Oct.
4, 1991. Adams served in the U.S. Marine Corps
during World War II.

GORDON KENNEDY JR., ’50, managing part-
ner of GA/Partners, the real estate consulting arm
of Arthur Andersen consulting company, on Dec.
2, 1991, in his home in Bethesda, Md. While at
W&L, he was a member of the Lambda Chi Alpha
fraternity. fe served in the Army during the
Korean War, and received a master’s degree in
economics from the University of Delaware in
1957. Kennedy joined Gladstone Associates, the
forerunner of GA/Partners, in 1963, and became
president in 1973. He specialized in comprehen-
sive rea! estate planning and the development of
“new towns.” In the 1980s, he was involved in
remodeling Union Station in Washington, D.C,
serving for a period as acting executive director of
the Union Station Redevelopment Corp., the or-
ganization that redeveloped Union Station under
the direction of the U.S. Department of Trans-
portation. He was a member of numerous real
estate organizations.

JOHN H. JACK) SHUMATE, ’50, retired em-
ployee of the Royal Coal Co., on Jan. 28, 1992, in
Oak Hill, W.Va. He was a member of the Sigma
Nu fraternity while at W&L, was a World War II
veteran, and was a member and former deacon of
the Mount Hope Baptist Temple.

JOHN W. (JACK) JOHNESCU,’51, entrepenuer,
on March 6, 1992, in Cleveland. He was a member
of the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity while at W&L.
Johnescu was presidentof Jayfor Inc., which owned
and operated several Mister Donut Shops in Canton
and Massillon, Ohio. He wasa trustee on the board
of the Iiumane Society of Stark County, and a
member of Christ Presbyterian Church of Canton.

EDWARDD. LONERGAN, ’51, insurance agent,
on Aug. 22, 1991. While at W&L, he was a member
of the Delca Upsilon fraternity. He served asa first
lieutenant with the U.S. Marines during the Korean
War. After the war, he worked as an account
€xecutive for Ted Baker Advertising in New York
City, then worked as an insurance agent for the
Friedlander Co. He lived in Port Chester, N.Y.,
during much of this time. He volunteered for
Meals on Wheels, was a member of the Elks Club,
and was a parishonerofOur Lady of Mercy Church.

DAVID M. MURRAY, ’52, ’55L, Newport News,

a, attorney, on Feb. 7, 1992. Murray was an
attorney in private practice for 40 years, and was an
attorney for First Federal Savings & Loan. He was
@ member of Chestnut United Methodist Church,
and a 32nd degree Mason.

JAROSLAV A. DRABEK,’S53, lawyer, on Feb. 22,
1992, in Mount Kisco, N.Y. Drabek was born in
Prague, Czechoslovakia, and escaped from Prague
with his family in 1948, when they came to America.
While at W&L, he was a member of the Sigma Nu
fraternity. He received a law degree from George
Washington University in 1958, after serving in the
U.S. Army, and began his career in corporate and
international law. He was also a writer, contribut-
ing articles on political and general themes to
publications in the U.S. and Czechoslovakia.

JAMES A. FOL TZ III, °53, on Oct. 28, 1991, in
Pleasantville, N.Y. He was a member of Phi Delta
Theta social fraternity while at W&L. He served
as a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy before beginning
a business career. He worked for General Foods
Corp., Young & Rubicam, was a vice president
with the H.J. Heinz Co. in Pittsburgh, was director
of personnel relations at Anchor Hocking Corp.,
and was a consultant in financial planning for the
National Pension Service.

ARTHUR I. GOTTSEGEN, ’59, on Sept. 13,
1991, in Metairie, La. Gottsegen was a member of
Zeta Beta Tau social fraternity while at W&L. He
pursued a number of business ventures in manu-
facturing before retiring in 1983.

PAUL X. BOLT, ’61L, Grayson County, Va.,
commonwealth’s attorney for 20 years, of a heart
attack on Nov. 19, 1991. While at W&L, he was
president of his law class and a contributor to the
W&L Law Review in 1961, and vice president of
his law class and secretary of the Board of Gover-
nors in 1960. He served as Grayson County
commonwealth’s attorney from 1964-80, and from
1987 until his death. He had just been elected to
another four-year term. Bolt also had a private law
practice. He was a veteran of the Korean War, a
member of the Independence, Va., Masonic Lodge,
the Independence Lions Club, Grayson County
VFW Post, and a member of the Virginia State Bar
and Galax-Grayson Bar Associations.

JAMES H. AUSTIN JR., ’62, business manager,
on Feb. 8, 1992, in Kernersville, N.C., following a
sudden illness. While at W&L, he was a member

of the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity. He was a
Vietnam War veteran, and later a manager of
personel systems at Burlington Industries. He was
also a manager of personnel and administration at
Galey and Lord.

DR. GEORGE H. WIDENER III, ’71, chief of
staff of Beaufort Memorial Hospital, on Feb. 15,
1992, atthe hospital. Widener was a member of the
Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity while at W&L. After
graduation, he earned a master of science degree at
Purdue University, and a medical degree from the
University of Kentucky. He completed his intern-
ship in internal medicine and neurology and his
opthamology residency there as well. He coached
soccer when his children were young, coaching in
Lexington, Ky., from 1982 until 1986, and in
Beaufort, S.C., from 1986 to 1990. He was a
member of the Sea Island Rotary Club, in charge of
the Youth Exchange Program. He was a member
of several medical associations, and was the only
opthamologist on the Beaufort Memorial Hospital
staff. Widener was also a member of the First
Presbyterian Church, where he sang in the choir
and served as vice president of the Men of the
Church. He also was a past member and chairman
of the church’s diaconate.

FREDERICK L. (SKIP) FRANCK, ’79, on Oct. 8,
1991,

LESTERL. BATESIII, ’82L, lawyer, on Nov. 28,
1991. Bates attended the University of South
Carolina as an undergraduate before coming to
Washington and Lee for law school. He was an
intern for the South Carolina Senate and the U.S.
attorney’s office, and practiced law with his father
in Columbia, S.C. He also founded Bates Mort-
gage Services Inc., with offices in Columbia, New
York, and New Jersey. Bates was a member of
Shandon Baptist Church, the Summit Club, and
the board of the Providence Home for Men.

DAVID A. HADDAD, ’82, on December 9, 1991.
Haddad was an electrical engineer with Texas
Instruments in Dallas.

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer and dark pine
stain. The five color crest of the University is painted on the back of each chair or rocker. They
are attractive and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair goes to the
scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

 

6-8 weeks delivery. Prices include freight charges.

Mail your order to:

 

j ‘ vr * wr

ARM CHAIR BOosTON ROCKER

© Black lacquer with cherry arms © Black lacquer

© Dark pine © Dark pine

be *The Boston Rocker requires
© $235.00 © $220.00 Y
“er : some assembly.

To order: Include your name, address, your telephone number, and a telephone number, if known, for the
delivery location. Indicate chair or rocker and color. Make check payable to W&L Alumni Office. Please allow

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

 

 

W&L ALUMNI MAGAZINE 55

 

7

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY »

omecoming

 

 

  

Friday, October 2

12:00 Noon ACAP Symposium “Recapping ACAP”
Featuring N. Rick Heatley, Director of Career Services

12:10 p.m. Professor Morton J. Horwitz
Charles Warren Professor of American Legal History, @ Ae BE [2
Harvard

12:30 p.m. Luncheon for Five-Star Generals, Alumni

Board of Directors, Law Council, ACAP volunteers,
and their spouses

 

 

2:00 p.m. Homecoming Keynote Address
Lee Chapel

6:00 p.m. Volleyball vs. Roanoke, Mary Baldwin

6:00 p.m. Reception for all Alumni
Honoring the Five-Star Generals and the 1992
Homecoming Queen Court

7:00 p.m. Water Polo: Southern Tournament

7:00 p.m. Five-Star Generals’ Reunion Banquet

8:30 p.m. Concert: W&L Choral Ensembles including

 

JubiLee and Southern Comfort
Saturday, October 3
9:00 a.m. Water Polo: Southern Tournament Cluster Reunion
For the Classes of 1989, ’90,
11:00 a.m. Homecoming Parade 91,92

Downtown Lexington

 

 

 

12:00 Noon Women’s Soccer: Mary Washington

12:30p.m. Alumni Luncheon

Entertainment by the Jim Caldwell Band FOR MORE INFORMATION WRITE:
2:00 p.m. Football: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon Homecoming ’92

Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.
4:30 p.m. Alumni Reception Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

0 you know anyone listed here?

CLAS-
Frederic:
Charles
James F
Dr. Edwe
Burr E. ©
William ©
James ©
Hinman
Joseph \
Joseph \v
Adolfo N.
Leon E. \
William ©
Kenneth |
William 1.

Frank L. ©

Theodore
Berry G. |
William
John B.
William

Paul R. S:

Philip L. <
Patrick ©

Donald L. VV:

CLASS
Roy E. F:
James B

CLASS
William —
Charles
Roland -
Henry E.
Arthur
Dr. Seri’
Gurdon »
Rev. Sh.
Francis

CLAS
Bernarc
Kennet!
William |
James /
Edwin ©
Robert |:

CLAS
Covert
Arthur |
Joseph |
Dr. Alfre
Jacque:
John C.

= 1943
\llen
irten

am

'. Cooper
Jr.

y
ilton
vKS
on
bard

IS
ren
rill
ld Jr.
| Jr.
Nn

e
4

Jr.

OF 1943L

dson Jr.

OF 1948
r

n Jr.

rriero Jr.
on
lardin
smith Jr.
od F. Smith
/liams

OF 1948L

lerrill

ter Jr.
senberry
iffer

ith

OF 1953

dwin
rett
sell

Chappelka Jr.

‘Epremesnil
s

The individuals whose names appear on this page are listed
as “unlocated” in WerL's alumni records. If you have a current

address for any of these alumni, please do us—and them—a
favor and send word to the Alumni Office, Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, VA 24450.

Harvey A. Dodd
Terence Flannery
William R. Glattly
William S. Glenn Ill
Arthur A. Hansl
Frederick G. Harmon
Parks A. Hendry
Robert P. Hinton
William L. Johnson Jr.
John C. Kilburn
Frank R. MacElvain
Walter J. Maytham Ill
Frank A. McCormick
Herbert T. Olsen
Charles P. Rather Jr.
Gene K. Shepherd
Robert E. Smith Ill
Robert B. Stickel
John R. Terney Jr.
Charles R. Weisbrod
Henry L. Woods III

CLASS OF 1953L
John C. Calhoun

Leland T. Gilmore
Hawley L. Smith Ill

CLASS OF 1958
Frederick A. Adams Jr.
Stephen Berg

James N. Berry
Richard M. Brickman
George R. Charles Jr.
Charles P. Corn
Calvin R. Couch
David T. Dewey
Gerald M. Earley
Jerome M. Epstein
Gill C. Evans

Harry E. Heinitsh Ill
Charles R. Hess II
Whitfield Jack Jr.
Frederick K. Johnson
Bruce H. Keeling
Lowry S. Kelly

Carl R. Mangold Jr.
Terence T. McGreevy
Isaac M. Meekins III
James M. Morton

Benjamin L. Noel
Lamar D. Roy Ill
Rufus L. Safford
Clifford E. Smith Jr.
George E. Steffee III
James R. Stone Jr.
Dr. Philip W. Turner III
Philip H. Weeks Jr.
Allen H. White

CLASS OF 1958L
John L. Daniel

CLASS OF 1963

Robert M. Avent Jr.
Donald L. Bartlett III
Howard L. Blau

John H. Brandenburg
Randolph L. Brooks
Franklin R. Carlile
Michael M. Cenci

Bart B. Chamberlain III
John M. Cheatham Jr.
Roger W. Crews
Herald A. Dean

Arthur M. Doty Ill
Carrol W. Downey
Henry A. Fenn Jr.
Stephen D. Hancock
Charles C. Hardwick III
Alexander D. Hay
Frederick F. Henderson Jr.
William R. Jordan
Robert E. Kowalski
Peter A. Lalli

Donald M. Lathrom Jr.
Stephen L. Leech
James R. Lesley

lan R. MacKenzie
Charles O. McBride Jr.
Arnold B. McKay
James L. McKenna Jr.
Sanford H. Morrow III
Dr. Douglas J. Pollack
Dr. Philip A. Reidford
Rodney B. Shields
Charles H. Stevenson
John D. Streetman
John H. Waters

Marshall Wilson
William H. Wyly

CLASS OF 1963L
Dr. Frank A. Burget
William W. Cobbs Jr.
John W. Johnson

Edwin A Kogut

Moffett D. Warren

CLASS OF 1968
Dr. Peter J. Apisdorf
Robert W. Avent
Christoph H. Bargholtz
Ulric C. Berard
Thomas E. Bickhaus
Alden E. Bigelow
Andrew J. Bloom
Bruce L. Butler
James W. Cady II
Jack W. Chaffin
Roger J. Clarke
Richard W. Cocke
Allan R. Creager
Christopher B. Crosman
Kester W. Denman Ill
Eldridge C. Dixon Jr.
David R. Duncan
Thomas E. Edwards
Arthur L. Ellis Jr.
Donald E. Evans Jr.
Richmond H. Hamilton Jr.
Stephen M. Henkin
David S. Hulbert
Sherman E. Jeffries
David S. Johnson Jr.
Stephen H. Koleszar
David P. Lientz
Clarence B. Manning
Luke A. Meadors
A.L. Merrill

William R. Paton
Edgar F. Paul Jr.
David L. Reading
Sidney B. Rosenberg
Bernd Schulz

Dave A. Simpson
Wayne S. Snowden
Clayton L. Spann
Kirk Stewart

Samuel S. Wallace III
John W. Wiley

Peter M. Witt

CLASS OF 1968L
Robert S. Clark

Michael L. Lowry

Bobby W. Tucker

Jack B. Wood

 

 

The Washington and Lee University

SA PT TT a,
Alumni Magazine NON-PROFIT ORG.
pao U.S.POSTAGE
Lexington, Virginia 24450 | PAID

PERMIT NO. 714
LYNCHBURG, VA

|

 

 

 

