 

FEBRUARY 1971
eo /

1G

TON AN

ee
PR ie.

. [a

i) * Pam we a " Ci oad 4

iy, Mie

ba ke

‘> Pe et

ged ™%

WASHING

 

 

 

DEANS PUSEY AND WATT

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNUS

VOLUME 46 NUMBER 1 FEBRUARY 1971

CONTENTS

1. CONTACT *41
4. Campus News
—prepared by Robert S. Keefe

: g. Fancy Dress—A Reminiscence
10. Athletics

12. Alumni

15. Class Notes
20. In Memoriam

COVER

Strolling together in front of Lee Chapel are two men
who have figured large in the academic excellence of
Washington and Lee. On July 1, Dean William W. Pusey,
III, will retire as Dean of the College after 11 years in
the post and return to full-time teaching. He will be suc-
_ ceeded by his associate dean, William J. Watt. See story
on page 4.

EDITOR: William C. Washburn, 40
MANAGING EDITOR: Romulus T. Weatherman

ASSOCIATE EDITOR AND PHOTOGRAPHER:
A. Michael Philipps, ’64

EDITORIAL ASSISTANT: Mrs. Joyce Carter

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC::
Charles F. Clarke, Jr., 38, President

Emil L. Rassman, ’41, Vice-President

William C. Washburn, ’40, Secretary

Richard H. Turrell, 49, Treasurer

BOARD OF DIRECTORS: Upton Beall, ’51; Joe F.
Bear, ’33; Charles F. Clarke, Jr., 38; I. Hal Clarke, °38;
A. Christian Compton, ’50; William H. Hillier, ’38;
S. L. Kopald, Jr., 43; Dr. J. Peter Muhlenberg, ’50; Ed-
ward H. Ould, ’29; Emil L. Rassman, ’41; Beauregard A.
Redmond, 755; Richard H. Turrell, ’49.

Published in February, April, June, August, October, and
December by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms
3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage paid at
Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing privileges
at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

It is said that “viewing with alarm” can be fun for
some people. But there is nothing amusing about the
view of higher education that is being exposed these days.
It is downright unnerving.

“Higher education has come upon hard times,” says
the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education. “The
trouble is serious enough to be called a depression.” ‘The
commission report, based on on-site studies of 41 institu-
tions of all types, found about two-thirds of all U.S. col-
leges and universities either are “in financial difficulty’ or
are “headed for financial trouble.”

Underscoring these findings is a subsequent report
from the Association of American Colleges saying, in ef- ,
fect, that things are indeed as bad as the Carnegie study
found them. This second report estimates the total deficit
of all private higher education in the past four years at
$370 million. :

“The tight financial situation in higher education is
forcing a growing number of colleges and universities to
trim expenditures for the current fiscal year and to budget
smaller-than-normal increases,” says a lead on a survey
of college finances in The Chronicle of Higher Educa-
tion.

“Are Americans Losing Faith in their Colleges?” is
the question explored in a 16-page report compiled by
Editorial Projects for Education to be distributed to
thousands of alumni through alumni publications. ‘The
report finds that indeed “too many Americans have al-
ready forgotten the great positive contributions that col-
leges and universities have made to this nation during

the past three decades.”

Against this background, David Lawrence has issued
an editorial plea in his U.S. News & World Report to
alumni not to forsake their colleges. ‘““(he immediate
task,” he declares, “is to save the private colleges and uni-
versities. Their alumni can expect constructive reforms.
These can best be accomplished by first assuring the fi-
nancial stability of the institutions.”

We set forth all of this not to plant the notion that
Washington and Lee is in dire financial straits. Although
it is experiencing the same financial squeeze between
rising costs and static support that is besetting other col-
leges, it has so far managed to hold its own. But the plain
fact is that Washington and Lee is dependent upon in-
creased gifts—particularly for current operating expenses
—to maintain its position as one of the quality small uni-
versities in America.

University President Huntley nas said in another con-
nection that “to trust much is to risk much.” Washington
and Lee trusts that its alumni and friends will continue to
support it generously as it approaches a period of maxti-
mum need. At risk is Washington and Lee itself—and that
is much indeed.

2

CONTACT probes
crisis In education

Information for this article was furnished by Madison
Cole, senior from Newnan, Ga., chairman of Contact ’71.

For two weeks in January, Washington and Lee stu-
dents joined with several prominent professional and
political personalities and social commentators in examin-
ing “The Crisis In Higher Education,” this year’s topic of
discussion during the University’s 7th annual CONTACT
intellectual symposium.

Problems facing higher education became the central
point of investigation, and a conscious effort was made to
present not only the problems but also to present them
from varying viewpoints. Topics such as technology and
technological education, not often considered at Washing-
ton and Lee because of the nature of the school, also were
discussed, in relation to their impact on the world today.

Dr. Ross Toole, professor of history at the University
of Montana, opened the symposium, perhaps startling
some students by his mildly sympathetic view of change.
Best known as the author of “A Generation of Spoiled
Brats” that appeared last spring, in which he scolded stu-
dents for their abrasive manner, Toole implored students
to use the means of reform within the system, a system
that works. He told them that “you are myopic; you have
tunnel vision; you see only the immediate problems, and
you want them corrected now.

“You must learn the political process, and you must
learn how to use power,” he said, pointing out how stu-
dents were instrumental in former Sen. Eugene McCar-
thy’s campaign to oust a President, but how the move-
ment fell apart afterwards. He drew attention to Wood-
stock as an example of the power and solidarity of youth,
and how that phenomenon disappeared, too.

Pointing to the histories of the labor, farm, and La
Follette Progressive Party movements, Toole said that
within a space of from five to seven years each had ac-
complished most, if not all, of its goals. “You are not
going to have change in a week,” he said. “If you think
you are, you're going to be sorely disappointed. You
must have patience, courage, and, above all, tenacity,” he
concluded.

The second CONTACT program featured self-describ-
ed right wing libertarian Philip Abbot Luce and lawyer
Leonard Weinglass, whose clients, it has been said, read
like a list of who’s who in the Far Left. Luce, formerly a
young Maoist at Berkeley, formerly one of the college
leaders of William Buckley’s Young Americans for Free-
dom, and now located in the New Right, criticized the
coersive nature of American life, stating that “the whole

 

rPEATURES 1

of the public educational system is decadent, and we are
in need of revolutionary ideas.”’

One of the ideas Luce advanced was Milton Fried-
man’s voucher plan, in which the government would give
taxpayers a monetary voucher for education, after which
parents could send their children to private, parochial, or
public schools as they saw fit. He said “this would sorely
help the need for financing education.”

Luce went on to say that he opposed state education
because of its very nature, and he said that the govern-
ment not only restricted the quality of education, but
also that “it is implicit in that educational process that
there is an attempt to indoctrinate students to an allegi-
ance to the state.” He encouraged students to think for
themselves.

In countering Luce, Weinglass said the voucher plan
wouldn't benefit the impoverished or the blacks, that it
was an idealistic plan only. He said that education was the
only way to educate the masses, that in our technological
society all should have the right to a college education.

Throughout this particular program, it seemed that
both men agreed on the basic need for education, and
the anticipated clash that some expected never came off.

 

CONTACT keynoter Sen. Mark Hatfield urged new priorities.

  
   

ei

7
ss
—

.

“Fo
me

~

 

ee

The two differed only on how to go about providing it,
thus almost turning the evening into a fireside chat. Luce
and Weinglass had “debated” before on other college
campuses, and, as Luce said early in the day, had become
good friends.

Dr. Charles Hamilton, a sociologist and professor of
urban studies at Columbia University, concluded the
first week of CONTACT, claiming that demands from
black students are legitimate and necessary. He said there
has been a lack of interest in the black man, and there is
a great need for factual study about his history, literature,

_and place in American society.

He made the point that too many schools are going
into black studies without adequate financing and _ pre-
paration, which is far worse than no black studies at all.
He said that black students have raised questions in their
community and also at the academic level, questions
Hamilton said should have been raised long ago but were
overlooked.

In the keynote address of CONTACT, Sen. Mark Hat-
field of Oregon asked for a reordering of American priori-
ties, calling for less money for the defense budget and
more for education. He said more federal aid should be
directed toward funding scholarships and teaching re-
search, that too much money is now headed for research
in relation to defense projects and other such activities.

In response to questions concerning student unrest,
Hatfield echoed Dr. Toole’s sentiments, explaining that
student demonstrators are loud and vocal but become
apathetic when they have an opportunity to work within
the system:

“You students, you who demonstrated last May,” Hat-
field called. “Were you in New York in September, Octo-
ber, or November? You who were so opposed to the war.
Why were you not helping Sen. Goodell or Richard Ot-
tinger, both of whom are opposed to the war? Why was it
that more students worked for Jim Buckley than for
Goodell and Ottinger combined?” He urged students to
be positive and not to lose interest. |

Questions about environment were frequent during
CONTACT, and some were answered by Dr. Arthur
Hansen, the president of Georgia Tech. Hansen said there
was a great gap between those trained in technology and
those trained in humanity, and the major problem was
that a technological society could not communicate with
the humanists and vice versa. He said the humanist places
too much responsibility on the scientist, who “many times
is doing research for the sake of it. He doesn’t know what
the value of his work will be to science, much less society.
Then, five years later someone comes along and says this
really can be useful, and so the research is put to work in
some field.

“The scientist and the people should share the re-
sponsibility in deciding whether the technological im-
provement is for the good of society. Look at Henry
Ford’s car. When the automobile was first developed, no

FEATURE: 3

one really knew what to do with it. Ford only made it
popular, and you can’t blame him for polluting the air.
At that time, the car opened up many new areas to people.
It broadened horizons. It was a magnificent invention.
Only in the past several years has it become a burden,
and to blame technology is unfair.”

He reminded students that “those of you who attack
technology and call for its demise, remember that your
problems are only going to be solved by technology. The
problem is not technology; the problem is the way tech-
nology is put to use. And this is the responsibility of not
only the scientist, but also the man trained in the liberal
arts. This is where the gap exists, and this is where com-
munication and understanding are needed.”

CONTACT’S final session included addresses by
former president of Sarah Lawrence College Dr. Harold
‘Taylor and Rep. Philip Crane, a conservative congress-
man from Illinois. Taylor, an innovator of the free uni-
versity concept, said that the lecture system is outmoded,
and that learning and education could be greatly en-
hanced by students teaching themselves. He chastised the
Nixon Administration for ignoring the nation’s will in
invading Cambodia, finding that student disturbances
afterwards were perfectly logical and right.

Rep. Crane didn’t agree. He applauded those parents
and students who sued some colleges for shutting down.
He argued that there was a mediocrity among some pro-
fessors for avoiding their primary task—teaching. He said
there was too much emphasis on publishing, research, and
self gain.

He said the financial crises in colleges could be partly
remedied by requiring state institutions to charge full
tuition and by offering low interest loans to those who
could not afford full tuition rates. A secondary effect of
the plan, he said, would be that students, by paying for
their education, would demand a quality education, not
one where they sit and listen to “so much hog wash.”

“I don’t think it is right that students should have to
listen to Staughton Lynd at Yale teach American history
through the eyes of Karl Marx if they don’t want to, and
especially if they don’t have any choice.”’

Crane, like Luce a week earlier, endorsed the Fried-
man voucher plan, claiming that such a plan would tend
to make colleges competitive and improve educational
quality. |

In addition to their formal speeches, most of the
CONTACT guests were available to students and fac-
ulty members for informal discussion periods, seminars,
and one-on-one conversations. The CONTACT Com-
mittee made every attempt to invite speakers who were
well-versed in their particular field, and those who would
offer some solutions to the problems of education, rather
than voice rhetoric. And every attempt was made to
choose figures who urged action within the system, within
the framework of society when and where change is
needed.

As CAMPUS

Watt named Dean of College,
Pusey to be full-time teacher

Dr. William J. Watt has been named
to become dean of the College at Wash-
ington and Lee next July 1, succeeding
Dr. William Webb Pusey, III, who will
return to full-time teaching after 11 years
as head of the University’s arts and sci-
ences division.

Dr. Watt, 45, is currently associate
dean of the College and professor of chem-
istry at Washington and Lee and serves as
chairman of the faculty’s Executive Com-
mittee.

Dr. Pusey had indicated to the Board
of Trustees last summer his intention to
retire from administrative duties by the
end of the current academic year, Presi-
dent Robert E. R. Huntley said in the
announcement.

Dr. Watt, a member of the faculty at
Washington and Lee since 1955, earned
his B.S. degree from the University of Ili-
nois in 1949, his master’s degree from Cor-
nell University in 1951, and the Ph.D. de-
gree in inorganic chemistry from Cornell
in 1956.

He was named assistant dean of the
arts and sciences division at Washington
and Lee in 1966, and became associate
dean two years later.

The dean of the College is considered
the second-ranking academic officer in the
University, and in addition to customary
administrative duties he acts in the presi-
dent’s behalf during his absence or illness.
The dean also serves as an ex-officio mem-
ber of many principal faculty committees.

The College includes 19 academic de-
partments, which offer a total of 539
courses in 28 separate fields. This year,
1,060 students are enrolled in the College,
almost 80 per cent of the University’s un-
dergraduate total. Its full-time faculty
numbers 105.

Dr. Pusey, 60, joined Washington and
Lee’s faculty in 1939, the year he received
his Ph.D. degree from Columbia Univer-
sity. He also holds the B.S. degree from
Haverford College and the master of arts
degree from Harvard.

He served as acting president of Wash-
ington and Lee from late 1967 until Hunt-
ley assumed office Feb. 5, 1968.

Dr. Pusey will return to full-time
teaching as head of the department and

professor of German, the position he held
in 1960 when he was named dean. Dr.
Pusey also teaches courses in comparative
literature and Russian.

President Huntley said no decision has
been made on naming a successor to Dr.
Watt as associate dean of the College.

Huntley expressed his “deep gratitude
—and that of all associated with Washing-
ton and Lee—to Dr. Pusey for his decade
of invaluable service as dean.”

The president also said Dr. Pusey’s
“patient and thoughtful leadership has
given the University a quality of true aca-
demic strength, which will be abiding.”

The Trustees’ selection of Dr. Watt to
succeed Dean Pusey, the president con-
tinued, “commends itself on every ground
—ability, scholarship, experience.” Hunt-
ley affirmed his own and the Trustees’
“full confidence in Dr. Watt and his capa-
city to fill with distinction this important
position at Washington and Lee.”

New council named

Nine at-large faculty representatives
to the new University Council at Washing-
ton and Lee have been elected and an aca-
demic calendar for the 1971-72 year was
adopted during the faculty's February
meeting.

Named to serve on the Council, creat-
ed in order to make the formal processes
of student-faculty consultation on policy
issues which had been informal in the
past, were:

Dr. John DeVogt, professor of admini-
stration: Dr. David Gordon Elmes, assiS-
tant professor of psychology; Dr. John
Brown Goehring, professor of chemistry;
Dr. H. Robert Huntley, professor of Eng-
lish; Dr. H. Marshall Jarrett, professor of
European history;

Also, Dr. Samuel J. Kozak, professor of
geology; Dr. Edward L. Pinney, professor
of politics; I. Taylor Sanders H, instructor
in history; and Thomas O. Vinson Jr., in-
structor in mathematics.

The Council includes 12 faculty dele-
gates, three of whom are selected by major
faculty standing committees and nine
elected at large; the four major deans (the
College, the School of Law, the School of

Commerce, and the dean of students); the
president of the University; the president
of the student body; and 12 student dele-
gates selected at large.

Representing the faculty's Committee
on Courses and Degrees will be Dr. G.
Westbrook Barritt, professor of romance
languages. Dr. Thomas Imeson, professor
of chemistry, will represent the Student
Affairs Committee (SAC). A representative
to the Council from the faculty Executive
Committee remains to be chosen.

The new calendar adopted for the
coming school year closely follows the cur-
rent calendar, allowing an extra day for
examinations in the first (fall) term and
scheduling the spring term examinations
for a Saturday and a Monday to allow
students an extra day of study (Sunday) in
between.

The winter term next year will begin
on the Wednesday after New Year’s Day,
rather than on the Tuesday after as this
year, allowing an extra day of travel.

The calendar provides similar vaca-
tions and breaks in all three terms, and
follows the so-called 12-12-6 pattern under
which Washington and Lee began operat-
ing this year—two “long” terms of 12
weeks each, followed by a short “mini-
semester” in which students concentrate
on only one or two courses, permitting in-
tensive investigation of a single problem,
including on-the-scene field work.

Also approved was a proposal permit-
ting individual academic departments to
decide whether to give comprehensive ex-
aminations at the end of the second (win-
ter) term or at the end of the spring term.

Comprehensive examinations are re-
quired by several departments of senior
majors.

Freshmen eye law

More than a third of Washington and
Lee University’s freshmen plan to become
lawyers and a sixth of them say they want
to be physicians, according to a survey
taken this fall by the American Council
on Education.

With 36.4 per cent choosing law as a
profession and 15.7 per cent medicine,
the figures at Washington and Lee are sub-
stantially higher than nationwide aver-
ages, the ACE reported.

Nationally, its survey showed 6.3 per
cent of America’s freshmen as future law-
yers and 5.2 per cent as physicians.

Only a tenth of the freshmen at Wash-
ington and Lee have lawyers for fathers,

 

 

Troubs rehearse for “off-off’” Broadway abbearance.
y

and the fathers of even fewer are doctors
or dentists.

With law and medicine together
claiming more than half of the 372 Wash-
ington and Lee freshmen who participated
in the survey—18 did not take part—busi-
neéss as a profession ran a poor third, with
only 10.1 per cent of the University’s
freshmen interested. That was consider-
ably behind the national male freshman
average, 16.7 per cent.

The fourth most popular occupational
category at Washington and Lee, judging
by freshman plans, was the arts. Almost
nine per cent said they plan to become
artists or performers, double the national
proportion.

Washington and Lee’s freshmen parted
company with entering students elsewhere
in the nation in several other character-
istics as well, the ACE survey showed.

More than a sixth of them, 17.7 per
cent, were editors of their secondary
schoo] newspaper, twice the national men’s
proportion.

Nearly half, 45.2 per cent, belonged to
a scholastic honor society, and 18.5 per
cent won National Merit Scholarship rec-
Ognition—again, doubling the national
Proportions for male freshmen.

Twenty-two per cent had A averages in
high school, compared with just 13 per

cent nationally, and four-fifths of the rest
had B averages,

But despite major differences in career
plans and scholastic backgrounds, Wash-
ington and Lee’s freshmen were close to
national averages in political and social
notions,

Only a tiny group at Washington and
Lee—1.5 per cent—characterized themselves
as “far left,” though nationally, twice as
many chose that self-description. Only 1.2
per cent said they were “far right” at
Washington and Lee, exactly the same as
nationally.

In the middle categories, there was al-
most complete agreement between the
Lexington university’s freshmen and the
nation’s—with a third of both saying they
are “liberal” and 58 per cent of both
groups choosing “‘middle of the road” or
“conservative.”

Troubs in Fun City

The Troubadour Theatre, Washington
and Lee’s student dramatic company, went
“off-off” Broadway in mid-February.

The Troubs performed Rosencrantz
and Guildenstern Are Dead, the 1967 Tom
Stoppard comedy, at the Masterworks Lab-
oratory Theatre on East Second Street on
Feb. 17-19.

About 25 Troubs made the trip, ac-
companied by Mrs. Ellen Barnes, instruc-
tor in drama and director of the group.

The unique invitation to the Trouba-

CAMPUSs 5

dours was extended by Richard Moss, exe-
cutive producer of the theatre. Fred Cook,
production manager for Masterworks, had
spent a week in January working with the
Troubadours on the play, and Cook re-
turned to New York with “infectious en-
thusiasm” about the Troub production.

‘The Washington and Lee group’s at-
titude and approach to drama and to the
production itself, as well as the Troubs’
remarkable honesty, according to Moss,
led to the invitation to perform in New
York.

The Troubs presented Rosencrantz
and Guildenstern in Lexington Feb. 9-13,
just before leaving for New York. They
spent a week rehearsing and adapting
their staging of the play to the physical
arrangement of the Masterworks Theatre.

Books students buy

What books do students at Washington
and Lee voluntarily spend their money
on? It is intriguing, now that the Book-
store is in its fifth year, to look back and
see which books have been the most popu-
lar. There are over 4,000 different titles
here to choose from, almost all paper-
backs, and since the Bookstore stocks only
non-required books our sales point the
direction of student interest.

The best sellers fall into two groups.
First, there are the quick flashes—books
which sell fast for a time and then fade
back into the shelves, such as the so-called
“little red book,” Quotations of Chairman
Mao, The Peter Principle by: Peter, or
Rod McKuen’s poems. Too, when a pro-
fessor enthusiastically talks about a book
there will promptly be a sudden run on it.
The Confesstons of Zeno by Svevo and
Management and Machiavelli by Jay are
good examples.

This past winter has produced a classic
runaway best seller in Love Story by Eric
Segal. It appeared in paperback about
Thanksgiving and since then we have
barely been able to keep up with the de-
mand. In the space of two months it has
become one of our all-time largest sellers.
Also, there are usually a couple of “spicy”
books which sell rapidly for a short time
after extensive promotion and advertise-
ment by their publishers, i.e. Portnoy’s
Complaint by Roth.

However, beyond these short-run
books, it is easy to spot the long-range
best sellers. These are books which must
always be available and for which there is
a solid, constant market. By all odds the

6: CAMPUS

WeL Bookstore where Love Story is a runaway

No. 1 seller here over the past five
years has been the J.R.R. Tolkien trilogy:
The Lord of the Rings. Newcomers to
Middle Earth, where the Hobbit fantasy
takes place, join with long-time readers
needing replacement copies in keeping
sales heavy and steady. Among other books
for which there is a sustained interest are
such twentieth-century classics as the works
of Hemingway and Faulkner, The Prophet
by Gibran which only comes in hardback
and is the all-time best seller on college
campuses, and the book of very beautiful
colored photographs, Jn Wildness is the
Preservation of the World by Eliot Porter
with quotations from Thoreau. The novels
of Nobel Prize winner Herman Hesse
have grown tremendously in popularity

 

 

 

 

 

 

best seller.

during the last couple of years on all
campuses, W&L being no exception. Other
books with sales on a sure day-to-day basis
include Catch-22 by Heller, One Flew
Over the Cuckoo’s Nest by Kesey, and the
flamboyant books by Tom Wolfe, a Wash-
ington and Lee graduate.

Bookstore purchases also clearly reflect
the student concern with the turmoils of
his world, both inner and outer. ‘There is
widespread interest in oriental philoso-
phies and approaches to alternative life
styles. The I Ching and books on Yoga
Zen Buddhism by Watts and Suszuki have
sold in the hundreds. Biggest seller of this
kind is The Way of Life, According to
Lao Tzu, translated by Bynner, which
has tripled in sales during the past two

years. Of special significance to students
(and, I would add, to their parents) is The
Making of a Counter-Culture which ex-
amines with measured understanding the
youthful resistance to technology.

The marked concern for the three
major crises of today’s world environment,
the Vietnam war, and racial tensions—
has produced several long term best sellers.
Soul on Ice by Cleaver, even after three
years in print remains way ahead in the
field of black problems; the Whole Earth
Catalogue, which has been coming to the
Bookstore for two years, now sells about
100 copies each issue; and the ominous
presence of the draft accounts for the
many purchases of the Guide to the Draft
Law by Tatum and the Friends Service
Committee’s Handbook for Conscientious
Objectors.

Finally, it would be unfair to wind up
without a mention of Washington and
Lee’s own best seller—General Lee’s Col-
lege—which has sold over 2,400 copies in
the Bookstore and by mail combined dur-
ing the year and a half since publication.

—BY BETTY MUNGER
Bookstore Manager

Wa&L art in Japan

Works of art by four Washington and
Lee students have been included in the
International Student Art Show in Osaka,
Japan.

Larry Alexander, a freshman from Nor-
folk; Victor Barnes, a junior from Forest
Hill, Md.; Thomas Driscoll, a junior from
Narberth, Pa.; and Ann Red, a sophomore
exchange student (Randolph-Macon Wo-
man’s College) from Chappaqua, N.Y.
had works shown at the international ex-
hibition.

Both Alexander and Miss Red had two
paintings accepted. Driscoll and Barnes
each had one work displayed.

Only three other student group shows
from the United States were accepted for
the Osaka exhibition.

All four are students of I-Hsiung Ju,
Washington and Lee’s artist-in-residence.

Law for the kids

One of the most important long-range
answers to the problems of alienation, vio-
lence, and crime in America involves edu-
cating the nation’s children to the inher-
ently positive values and processes of the
governmental structure, according to the
final report of a Presidential] task force,

headed by Washington and Lee Univer-
sity’s law dean.

“If our children are provided sufficient
education and appropriate democratic
models in the home, school, and commun-
ity, as well as an opportunity to partici-
pate directly in democratic processes,” the
report contends, “they will want to pre-
serve our basic Constitutional democracy
as adults, (realizing) that rational and or-
derly processes can result in needed re-
forms.”

The report, completed in February,
is a refinement of an early draft presented
in December before the White House Con-
ference on Children. President Nixon had
named Professor Roy L. Steinheimer, dean
of Washington and Lee’s School of Law,
head of the group examining approaches
to legal education involving the nation’s
young children.

Dean Steinheimer’s 15-member com-
mittee noted that the nation as a whole
has ‘failed to show children that the
democratic processes inherent in the
American Constitutional system can help
solve today’s most vital problems.

“If we do not demonstrate to children
that we can work within (the system) to
effect needed reforms for all citizens, then
we cannot expect children to make the
necessary commitment to the democratic
principles and ideals which support our
system.” 7
) The Steinheimer committee’s final re-
port pointed to research findings that indi-
cate children are able from very early ages
to understand the meanings of “law,”
“Justice,” and “rules.” By the time they
begin to be taught formally about legal
and political order, they have long been
judging it.

The challenge, according to the task
force report, is to begin at much earlier
ages in children’s lives to provide them
with accurate and appropriate principles
by which to make those judgments.

Most young children, the report con-
tinues, see rules in school, family life, and
similar local situations as generally pre-
venting disorder and protecting social in-
teraction—not as punitive or coercive.

This need for rules and orderliness
which youngsters understand must be ap-
plied to their perceptions of the com-
munity and nation, rather than ignoring
the matter while children grow up with-
out making the identification at all, the
report states.

A systematized, comprehensive design
jor providing small children with practical

  

experience in democratic situations and
with a personal understanding of the
value of democracy must be applied to
children from the earliest ages, the report
concludes.

That, it states, is the only effective way
the nation’s young people can develop an
appreciation of the balance between in-
dependence and obligation and learn to
value the concepts of fair play, justice,
and equality.

Members of Dean Steinheimer’s com-
mittee included psychologists, professional
educators, and law enforcement officials,
as well as others from across the country.

Designed largely to recommend ac-
tion directly on the local level, the Stein-
heimer committee’s report also goes now
to the President’s office for appraisal and
recommendations for federal-level imple-
mentation.

Two capital grants

Two capital grants from major oil
companies have been presented to the
University, President Robert Huntley has
announced.

A gift of $15,000 was received from
the Gulf Oil Foundation, under a program

‘to assist privately supported colleges and

universities in meeting physical needs.

The second was an unrestricted grant
of $2,500 from the American Oil Founda-
tion, which according to Huntley will be
used to help meet financial needs in the
University’s Cyrus Hall McCormick Li-
brary.

Gulf will distribute more than $3 mil-
lion this year to American colleges in a
wide variety of grant programs, includ-
ing undergraduate scholarship, employee
gift matching, departmental assistance,
and graduate fellowship programs.

The American Oil gift is one of 110
being made to outstanding schools
throughout the nation, in recognition of
the acute financial pressures private higher
education is facing.

New honors program

A basic redesign of the “honors” pro-
gram stressing intellectual creativity at
the University has been approved by the
faculty.

Under the new structure, students will
spend their last two years, rather than
simply their senior year, undertaking
honors work. Included in each depart-
ment’s honors program will be special in-

CAMPUSs 7

dependent work in which students will be
required to produce a significant thesis
based on field or laboratory work, a crea-
tive accomplishment in the arts, or a com-
parable scholarly undertaking demonstrat-
ing “more than simply a mastery of the
subject matter,” according to the faculty
vote.

Such independent work will carry six
to 12 hours’ credit toward graduation—
the equivalent of between two and four
normal courses.

The remainder of the honors curri-
culum in each department will cover regu-
lar course work, special tutorial, directed
reading projects, seminars, and _ intern-
ships. Comprehensive examinations will
also be required.

Students also will be eligible to under-
take honors work in two or three academic
departments jointly, or under an “inde-
pendent” honors major, with the approval
of the deans and faculty committees in-
volved.

The new honors program will go into
effect beginning next autumn.

On successful completion of the pro-
gram, a student- will be graduated “with
honors,” and his achievement will be not-
ed on his diploma, in his formal records,
and in special recognition at commence-
ment ceremonies. _

Two-year ROTC plan

A two-year Reserve Officer Training
Corps (ROTC) program is being added at
Washington and Lee, it has been announc-
ed by Lt. Col. Jack Morris, professor of
military science.

The two-year course will consist of a
six-week summer training camp period to
take the place of the usual two years’ in-
troductory courses in military science (101-
2 and 201-2), he said.

The new program will provide a means
for students to enter the ROTC program
even if they did not attend Washington
and Lee their first two years in college,
and will enable law students—whose de-
grees are normally completed in three
years—to participate in the program as
well.

In the past, only the four-year ROTC
program has been available at Washington
and Lee.

In addition to the summer-camp per-
lod, ROTC students in the two-year pro-
gram will be required to complete the
usual advanced on-campus courses in mili-
tary science, Col. Morris said.

33 CAMPUS

A book by Huntley

A new book examining the similarity
of the protagonists in the works of English
novelist Ford Maddox Ford, written by
a Washington and Lee professor, has been
published by the University of North
Carolina Press.

_ The Alien Protagonist of Ford Madox
Ford was written by H. Robert Huntley,
associate professor of. English at the Uni-
versity. Rather than an analysis of the
whole body of Ford’s work, the book foc-
uses on the distinct similarities between
his major characters, and uncovers a prev-
iously unnoted pattern in their struggles.

Ford Madox Ford, who died in 1939,
founded the English Review in 1908 and
is credited with discovering or first en-
couraging such writers as Ezra Pound, D.
H. Lawrence, and Ernest Hemingway.

He is best remembered for his own
Rash Act (1933), Henry for Hugh (1934),
and a series of related novels about World
War I he wrote during the 1920's.

Professor Huntley’s book is partly an
extension of his Ph.D. dissertation, which
he completed at the University of Wiscon-
sin in 1965. He took a leave of absence
from Washington and Lee in 1966-67 for
a year’s research on Ford under a special
cooperative program at Duke University
and the University of North Carolina.

Library post filled :

Robert J. Vigeant, former head of the
Haverhill, Mass. public library system, has
been named head of technical services
with the rank of assistant professor at
Washington and Lee’s Cyrus Hall McCor-
mick Library.

The appointment was announced by
Maurice D. Leach Jr., head librarian at
the University.

As director of technical services, Vige-
ant will be responsible for planning and
administering Washington and Lee’s sys-
tem of ordering, receiving, and catalogu-

‘ing new purchases and gifts.

In addition, he will develop facilities
in those areas to permit the library to ex-
tend its inter-library cooperative programs.

Vigeant received his B.A. degree in
1950 from Assumption College and the
M.S. degree in 1957 from the Simmons
College School of Library Science in Bos-
ton.

Before becoming head of Haverhill’s
public library system in 1966, he was
technical services librarian for the 24

members of the Finger Lakes system in It-
haca, N.Y. In addition, he served as head
librarian in Sault Ste. Marie, Mich., and
has held a number of other administrative
library positions.

A better library

Unprecedented growth and innovation
highlighted the operations of Washington
and Lee University’s library system in the
1969-70 academic year, according to head
librarian Maurice D. Leach, Jr. in his an-
nual report.

Spending for books, periodicals, and
supplies was more than double the level
last year, Leach reported—$136,886 in
1969-70, up from $62,346 during 1968-69.

At year’s end, the main library and the
six undergraduate departmental libraries
held 225,263 volumes, an increase of more
than 12,000 volumes.

The total library budget was $251,688,
Leach said, almost double the previous
year’s total of $136,200.

The 1969-70 figure represented 5.2 per
cent of Washington and Lee’s overall
budget, according to Leach, marking the
first time in recent years the proportion
surpassed threé per cent.

Counting government documents on
deposit in the library system and other

miscellaneous materials, the undergradu-

ate library system now includes more than
300,000 holdings.

The University’s law library, admini-
stered separately, contains an additional
50,000 holdings. The undergraduate sys-
tem includes Cyrus Hall McCormick Li-
brary, the main division, and specialized
libraries in the departments of journalism,
biology, chemistry, geology, physics, and
in the School of Commerce, Economics,
and Politics.

Chunga and Shadow

Described as music to make you feel
good, a new “underground” music pro-
gram has begun over WLUR-FM.

“Chunga’s Revenge” is named after a
currently popular song, and the show iS
aired each weekday night between I1
p.m. and midnight. It is a project of four
students—Richard Splittorf, W. Patrick
Hinely, Edward C. Levin, and James F.
Salmons.

“Chunga’s Revenge” is designed to
provide another alternative for rock music
aficionados, according to the four stu-
dents. The station’s programming covers

practically every music style imaginable,
from heavy classical pieces through Broad-
way and opera to country and western and
finally rock.

WLUR’s new program, which comple-
ments another beginner, “Midnight Ramb-
ler,” aired on Saturday nights at 11 p.m.,
reflects a portion of the station’s atten-
tion to expansive and divergent program-
ming. In addition to the wide range of
music offered, WLUR _ provides several
public affairs programs, including “Studio
Three,” with an open mike policy for
people with issues to discuss, and several
segments during the week for reports on
University and Lexington matters.

WLUR also is airing 15 half-hour seg-
ments of ‘“The Shadow,” the old melo-
drama that has regained popularity among
radio audiences.

With a staff of some 90-plus students,
WLUR now is the largest extracurricular
activity on the Washington and Lee camp-
us. The 10-watt station is on the air from
4 p.m. to midnight Monday through Fri-
day, from 1:30 p.m. to 2 a.m. Saturday
through Sunday morning, and from 3:30
p.m. to 11 p.m. on Sunday, when cadets
from VMI handle programming.

WLUR also broadcasts the Generals’
away football games and their more im-
portant away basketball games.

Thrice historic place

For the third time, the Department of
the Interior has recognized Washington
and Lee University for its unique place
in the historical development of the Unit-
ed States.

In a program founded in 1966 to iden-
tify certain locations in the country that
hold special significance to the growth of
America, the Interior Department recent-
ly annouced that the Washington and Lee
campus has been designated an “historic
place.”

The first two designations went to Lee
Chapel, as an “historic landmark,” and the
Timber Ridge Church, just north of Lex-
ington where Liberty Hall Academy was
once located, as an “historic place.”

The campus was nominated for the
national historic registry by Virginia’s His-
toric Landmarks Commission. Following
a survey in Virginia to identify historic
locations for nomination by the state
agency, approval came after careful study
by a national professional review com-
mittee, according to the Interior Depart-
ment.

The dance that lasted 60 years

The following article by Jim Wamsley,
‘50, appeared in the February issue of
The Commonwealth, the magazine of the
Virginia State Chamber of Commerce, of
which Wamsley is editor. It is reprinted
here by permission.

It was a month to bring a cold wind to
the backs of traditionalists, January was:
not that there was much encouragement
for orthodoxy in the several that preceded
it.

Consider the Fancy Dress Ball of Wash-
ington and Lee. Or rather, don’t consider
it, because it doesn’t exist any more.

This may not mean much to alumni of
other Virginia colleges: presumably they
have their troubles too, as nothing is sac-
rosanct these days. But for the old grad
from General Lee’s college it is the most
shattering break with the past since the
Generals dropped out of big-time football
nearly 20 years ago.

The official reason put out for cancel-
ling Fancy Dress was that it was always
held during the January semester break,
and now there isn’t any more January
semester break. Instead, the first term
ends with Christmas vacation, the second
terms run from January through March,
and a third one ends in June. There just
wasn't any more room at W&L for Fancy
Dress, said the University.

But I think the real reason was that
there’s no room anywhere now for a
Fancy Dress ball.

It was a gorgeous anachronism, any-
way, a throwback to days when major
social events were a combination of imagi-
nation, innocence, and_ snobbishness.
Fancy Dress began in 1907, which was the
year before Henry Ford built the first
Model T. That should help fix the period
in your mind. It was the quintessence of
the Edwardian Age.

Everyone traveled by train, and it was
an event of no small consequence for a
girl to ride the C&O up to the then-iso-
lated town in the Alleghenies’ lap. To lead
a rich social life then must have required
the endurance of a Marco Polo.

The Ball was famous as early as 1913,
and dazzled social arbiters were calling it
“the outstanding collegiate social event
in the South.” It had begun as a private
costume party thrown by Miss Annie
White, the Washington and Lee librarian:

 

now in just six years it was a glittering
tradition at which “300 blooming and
pretty young lady students” comprised
“the largest assemblage of college girls
ever seen at Lexington.”

It was an age of aristocratic fantasy
rivaling the last days of the French royalty.
Up at Newport, R.I., Mrs. Belmont and
other social czarinas were staging the
most expensive bal masques in history,
culminating in her 1914 Chinese Ball at
the Marble House. A few weeks later
World War I began.

 
    

Fancy Dress ... the Year of Oz.

But Fancy Dress survived the war, un-
like the Newport excesses. Now and then
a puritanical voice cried in the wilderness:
a professor of Greek denounced ‘modern
style dancing” which he had (gasp) observ-
ed being performed out of sight of the
chaperones. He also spotted “indecency of
attire.”

In 1919, a few students passed a resolu-
tion scorning “‘all distasteful and exag-
gerated forms of dancing such as the
‘shimmy’.”” Later, an administrator con-
demned the Big Apple as a moral outrage.

Through it all Fancy Dress thrived and
grew. The themes for the great ball be-
came more and more grandiose. Royal
courts, the antebellum South, the age of
knighthood, and in a crowning inspira-
tion, Heaven: such were the themes that
transformed venerable Doremus Gymnas-
ium each mid-winter into a paradise of
make-believe, reached by months of plan-
ning, decorating, practicing of the figure,
frantic ordering and fitting of costumes.

CAMPUSs ¢

The Age of Swing spread the fame of
Fancy Dress to wherever Americans had
radios. What graying Mink can forget the
breathless moment at 11:30 p.m. when
everybody on the floor had to pause,
revelry muffled for an instant, while the
on-stage network announcer leaped bab-
bling into the breach of live, open airwave,
riding on the theme song of whatever
famous orchestra was behind him.

I think the bands had as much fun as
anyone at Fancy Dress. Tex Beneke
brought the enthusiasm of a freshman to
the gig, dressed in costume like the happy
multitude, a grinning jester with a saxo-
phone almost his size. Charlie Barnet was
different. Cool and imperious, he refused
to wear the costume (though making sure
his sidemen did) but he electrified the
weekend of his turn with what may have
been the greatest music ever played at
Fancy Dress.

The ritual demanded a lengthy intermis-
sion, when everyone with Greek initials to
his name repaired with date to his frater-
nity lounge. Anxious housemothers strove
to keep the carousing within genteel
limits, and then the tide of silks and
crinolines swept back to Doremus Gym
for the ball’s conclusion.

If today it seems a thoughtless extrava-
gance, I can only say that in its time it
was fun. If today it seems trival, I can only
counter that it semed in its time to have
class. If today it all sounds artificial, I will
append that at its heart was an honest
gaiety born out of great expectations and
a large dose of discipline.

It lasted for 60 years. That’s longer
than any dance has a right to expect, and
when a tradition loses the spark of life
that sustains it there is nothing to be
gained by trying to maintain a ritual. In
the course of things, Fancy Dress is a
small loss. Yet in a broader view we might
consider the warning of historian Will
Durant: man discards at his peril the tra-
ditions and spectacles that bring mystery,
awe, and shared festivity to life.

It would be idiotic to expect modern
collegians to find the joy we did in a re-
creation of King Arthur’s Court, broadcast
live, no more than they expect to find us
at a rock concert at Fillmore East. But
sometimes I wonder if they’re having as
good a time.

And as we go down the road to rele-
vance together, a few of us will wave
briefly as. we pass the locked and shut-
tered ballroom that was Fancy Dress.

—Jim WAMSLEy, ’50

10: ATHLETICS

William D. (Bill) McHenry takes over as athletic director.

 

McHenry new athletic director

Washington and Lee has named alum-
nus William D. (Bill) McHenry director of
athletics and head of the department of
physical education.

McHenry presently is athletic director,
chairman of the department of physical
education, and head football and lacrosse
coach at Lebanon Valley College in Ann-
ville, Pa. He plans to remain at Lebanon
Valley until June 1, when he will move
to Lexington on a permanent basis.

The 38-year-old Swarthmore, Pa. native
is a 1954 graduate of W&L, where he was
an outstanding center on the Generals’
football teams of 1951, 1952, and 1953. He
was also a star lacrosse player. He cap-
tained the 1953 football team, the last to
play under the University’s program of
subsidized athletics. The next year, W&L
abandoned athletic scholarships in favor
of the present nonsubsidized program.

University President Robert E. R.
Huntley announced McHenry’s appoint-

ment to succeed Eugene F. (Gene) Corri-
gan, who resigned in October to become
director of university athletic programs at
the University of Virginia.

No acting director will be named at
Washington and Lee, Huntley said. Mc-
Henry will make frequent periodic visits
to Lexington to give direction to the ath-
letic program during the five-month in-
terim period, and Richard Miller, assis-
tant athletic director, will provide admini-
strative continuity, Huntley said.

“We are delighted that Bill McHenry
will be our new athletic director,” Hunt-
ley said. “His experience as an athletic di-
rector of a highly successful program at
Lebanon Valley, the high regard his col-
leagues in athletics feel for him, and his
enthusiasm for our approach to college
sports all commended him to us.”

The Washington and Lee president
said McHenry’s selection was the culmina-
tion of several months of careful and de-

liberate evaluation of a large number of
candidates for the position. “We were for-
tunate to have such a strong group of
candidates for our athletic directorship,”
he said. “We were able to make our
choice from a position of real strength.”

In his 10 years at Lebanon Valley, Mc-
Henry has coached football teams to a
44-34-1 overall record, won one Middle At-
lantic Conference championship, and tied
for another. His lacrosse program has post-
ed a 30-14 overall mark, with one MAC
championship.

McHenry previously coached at Penn
Military College and at Williams.

After being named W&L’s outstanding
major sport athlete in his senior year, Mc-
Henry played in two post-season contests
—the 1953 Blue-Gray Game and the 1954
College All-Star Game against the De-
troit Lions. He was a sixth-round draft
choice of the Washington Redskins, and
he played two years of service football
at Ft. Jackson, S.C. before entering the
coaching ranks.

McHenry coached football, swimming,
and track, and directed the intramural
program at Penn Military, then spent
three years as lacrosse coach and freshman
football coach at Williams, leaving there
in 1961 for his present post at Lebanon
Valley.

Long active in lacrosse circles, Mc
Henry initiated the sport at Lebanon
Valley in 1966. He is the current president
and former treasurer of the United States
Lacrosse Coaches Association. In 1961, he
coached the North team in the annual
North-South game. The head coach for the
South was his younger brother Bob, also
a W&L alumnus and now head lacrosse
coach at Yale.

McHenry has directed a sports camp in
Bridgewater, Va. for several years and also
has conducted a lacrosse camp in Penn-
sylvania’s Pocono Mountains.

He received a B.S. degree in commerce
at Washington and Lee in 1954, and he
has a master’s degree in education from
the University of Pennsylvania.

Ogilvie in line

Washington and Lee football co-cap-
tain Staman Ogilvie of Shreveport, La. has
been named an alternate for a $1,000 post-
graduate scholarship award from the Na-
tional Collegiate Athletic Association.

The NCAA announced 33 of the
awards have been made to the top student-
athletes in the country, representing both

major and college division schools. As one
of eight alternates, Ogilvie will be in line
to receive a scholarship should some of the
recipients not be able to accept.

Competition for the awards is keen.
Each recipient has at least a B average for
three years of college work and has per-
formed with distinction on the football
field.

Ogilvie, a starting guard for the Gen-
erals for four years, recorded a 3.30 grade-
point ratio on a 4,00 scale—ranking him
14th in his class of 251—for his first three
years at W&L.

A business administration major, he is
a candidate for a B.S. degree in commerce
in June.

The College Athletic Conference, of
which W&L is a member, had two other
award recipients besides Ogilvie—Sewanee
team captain John Popham and South-
western at Memphis co-captain John
Churchill.

Four make All-CAC

Four Washington and Lee football
players have been named to the All-Col-
lege Athletic Conference team, announced
jointly by the league’s five head coaches.

Named to the offensive unit were end
Steve Mahaffey, the senior who in catch-
ing 74 passes last fall led the nation’s small
college receivers, and senior tackle Steve
Hannon, a member of the Generals’ var-
sity for four years.

Selected to the defensive unit were
sophomore linebacker George Harris and
junior defensive back Dave Brooks.

Winter sports tally

As this issue of the Alumnus was going
to press, the University’s winter intercol-
legiate athletic program was drawing to a
close. Washington and Lee’s basketball
Generals, with a 12-6 season record, were
headed for another winning season, and
the swimming team had ended its regular
season with a 5-4 record, its 12th straight
winning year. Only W&L’s wrestling squad
was having troubles, caused by inexperi-
ence and lack of depth. The Generals were
1-8 to date.

A full report on all three sports will
be featured in the next issue, including
details of the conference championships,
highlights of the season, and an analysis of
individual accomplishments.

At press time, the teams had done the
following:

@ Coach Verne Canfield’s basketball
team had won over Randolph-Macon (53-
46), Bridgewater (76-63), Lynchburg (73-
71, game played in Lexington), Emory &
Henry (90-58 and 67-63, first game played
in Lexington, second at Emory), MIT (67-
57, consolation game of Suncoast Classic
played in St. Petersburg, Fla.), St. Paul’s
(74-68), Bryant (79-72), Johns Hopkins
(72-62), Davis & Elkins (66-61), Pembroke
State (64-56), and Hampden-Sydney (78-
74, game played in Lexington).

The basketball Generals had lost to
Old Dominion (84-60), Hampden-Sydney
(83-79, game played at Hampden-Sydney),
King (54-48, opening game of Suncoast
Classic), Navy (76-53), Virginia (92-70),
and Lynchburg (90-74, game played at

=

Skip Lichtfuss goes in for a layup against Virginia.

AVRILETICS: 1

Lynchburg). Record: 12-6.

@ Coach Bill Stearns’ swimming team
had defeated Old Dominion (63-50), Dick-
inson (60-53), VMI (65-48), VPI (61-52),
and Loyola of Baltimore (81-25), while
dropping meets to Duke (59-54), Virginia
(77-36), Johns Hopkins (69-44), and Wil-
liam & Mary (77-36). Record: 5-4.

@ Washington and Lee’s wrestling
team, with Roy Skinner taking over the
coaching chores late in the season, won its
first match, 25-14, over Guilford, but then
lost the next eight in a row: Dickinson (31-
11), Duke (32-6), Virginia (40-0), UNC
(22-20), VMI (37-5), Towson (38-0), Eas-
tern Mennonite (24-14), and Davidson
(27-8). Record: 1-8.

 

12; ALUMNI

Henberg is ninth W&L man
to win a Rhodes scholarship

Marvin C. (Swede) Henberg in his
four years at Washington and Lee earned
a heavy burden of honors plus a commod-
ity even more elusive—the wholehearted
respect of the Washington and Lee com-
munity.

In December he earned a new distinc-
tion for himself and for his school—a
Rhodes Scholarship, which will provide
him with two years of study at Oxford
University, England. He is the ninth
Washington and Lee man to win a coveted
Rhodes since the scholarships were estab-
lished in 1904 by Cecil Rhodes, a South
African financier and statesman.

In this latest achievement, Henberg
credits the value of a Washington and
Lee education.

Henberg graduated from W&L last
June with a double major—one in English
and one in philosophy—summa cum laude,
Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa.
He was president of the Student Body dur-
ing his senior year and chairman of the
Student Curriculum Committee during
his junior year and part of his sophomore
year.

He is currently doing graduate work in
philosophy at the University of ‘Texas on
a Danforth Scholarship. He was one of
four Washington and Lee seniors nomi-
nated by the faculty for a Rhodes Scholar-
ship.

Henberg displayed uncommon qualli-
ties of leadership last spring when Wash-
ington and Lee was touched by the stu-
dent unrest generated by the invasion of
Cambodia and the deaths of four Kent
State students. As Student Body president,
it became Henberg’s hard lot to be the liai-
son between the students and the faculty
and administration. By common consent,
Henberg was a voice of calm and reason—a
man in a difficult position who kept his
head when many around him were losing
theirs.

It is acknowledged, too, that Henberg’s
deliberative approach to complex ques-
tions contributed much to the success of
the work of the Student Curriculum Com-
mittee. The result was close cooperation
between the student committee and the
Faculty Curriculum Committee in work-
ing out the many complexities involved

 
    

in Washington and Lee’s first major over-
haul of its curriculum in 30 years.

The faculty conferred upon him last
June the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medal-
lion as the student who excels in “high
ideals of living, in spiritual qualities, and
in generous and disinterested service to
others,” and the Ring-tum Phi gave him an
award for enduring service to the Univer-
sity.

Of his educational experience at Wash-
ington and Lee, Henberg said in a letter
after being named a Rhodes Scholar:

“As for the substantive basis of the
award, I can only credit unique good for-
tune in my having elected to attend Wash-
ington and Lee. For me the blend at W&L
was just right. What few innovations oc-
curred to me met sympathetic ears; what
impetus I needed to initiate action gen-
erally came in the form of honest encour-
agement; whatever solitude I craved for
study or personal problems was always
available, even while I was busiest. And
the conflicts—they were there, too. Many
persist, yet even so, I feel the differences
were seldom ignored for the sake of ap-
pearances.

“If there is one thing I would wish to
foster most in W&L’s institutional charac-
ter, it is the capacity for unjaundiced self-
criticism. How such a feature comes to
exist is simple: the secret lies in the de-
voted interest of good men. Some of the

EERE REE EBS BOE BE

 

See
Se
$2 $e
:S

 

 

Swede Henberg, Rhodes winner.

 

best men I shall ever know teach, admini-
ster, and study at Washington and Lee.
Above all things, their friendships infected
me with a desire to wander among men of
learning. The immediacy of honest con-
cern, the distance of tolerant question-
ing—these, precariously balanced, were the
most transforming aspects of my years in
Lexington.

“I find it hard to express my real debt
to the school and all connected with it. I
am ever aware that my attendance, in the
first place, was possible only as the result
of a full scholarship, continued for the
full four years.”

In another letter, he said he was car-
ried through the Rhodes Scholarship inter-
views “with a self-assurance that can have
but one source—four splendid years at
Washington and Lee. I talk here not of
tradition, but of something much more
real—a gathering of people dedicated to
tradition, to the finest educative experi-
ence that men of learning and men of
good heart can provide.”

Henberg is a first-generation American,
who grew up in Laramie, Wyo., and at-
tended secondary schools there. His father
was a native of Sweden, who settled in
Wyoming and worked in lumber camps
and then for the railroad.

Henberg said that in deciding where to
go to college he played “catalogue rou-
lette,’ ordering catalogues from many
colleges. But he had always been “‘intri-
gued by the South” and was therefore in-
terested in a number of Southern schools,
including Washington and Lee, plus sev-
eral in the Northeast.

He finally decided to attend Washing-
ton and Lee, he said, after talking to Dr.
Edwin Gaines, a son of Dr. Francis P.
Gaines, the late president of Washington
and Lee. Dr. Edwin Gaines was associated
at the time with the University of Wyom-
ing in Laramie. Henberg read about him
in a newspaper and went to see him.

Henberg thought originally he would
study biology, then switched to English,
and finally added a philosophy major. He
counts his work on Ariel, the student liter-
ary magazine, among his most rewarding
experiences at Washington and Lee. He
won Mahan awards for both prose and
poetry. But while writing has always been
an abiding interest of his, he said, he is
now headed for the academic life of a
teacher.

Rhodes Scholarships are highly com-
petitive, with only 32 scholars chosen each
year. In making appointments, the com-

mittees seek excellence in four qualities:
intellectual attainment, character, leader-
ship, and physical vigor. ‘The annual sti-
pend for Rhodes Scholars amounts to
$3,120 and is sufficient to cover all neces-
sary expenses during the entire year.

Rhodes Scholars are free to select any
field of study offered by Oxford Univer-
sity, and Henberg will seek a Bachelor of
Philosophy degree, an advanced graduate
degree.

“IT have all manner of schemes for my
two years at Oxford,” he wrote. “If I can
realize a tenth of them, I shall have an in-
credible time.”

Other Washington and Lee men who
were Rhodes Scholars are: Col. Francis
Pickens Miller, 14; the late Dr. Fitzgerald
Flournoy, ’21; the late Samuel A. McCain,
27; Clarence Pendleton Lee, Jr., ’32; Dr.
Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., 39; Dr. Robert O.
Paxton, ’54; Jon B. McLin, ’60; and Timo-
thy A. Vanderver, Jr., ’65.

Armbrister at work

Trevor Armbrister, ’56, has vaulted
into the ranks of the country’s major au-
thors with his book on the Pueblo inci-
dent, A Matter of Accountability: The
True Story of the Pueblo Affair.

Some critics have hailed his work as the
best and most reasoned account of the
capture of the American spy ship in 1968
by the North Koreans, the diplomatic
aftermath, and the inquiry that followed.
The topic is emotionally charged, and
many Americans are still unable to think
about it dispassionately. Armbrister’s
handling of the topic has been called a
tour de force of careful and fair report-
ing, and very entertaining to boot.

Now Armbrister is doing a book on
the Yablonski murders and corruption in
the United Mine Workers Union.

Armbrister was asked recently to re-
count his activities since leaving Washing-
ton and Lee. He responded this way:

“I left W&L in 1956 and got a job im-
mediately with the now defunct This
Week magazine in New York. No sooner
had I earned my first byline than the
Army beckoned. I wound up as editor of
the Fort Belvoir post newspaper, and, be-
cause my CO was a decent chap, managed
to snare a night job at the nearby North-
ern Virginia Sun in Arlington. My editor
and publisher came to my wedding in ’58
and drank my father-in-law’s Scotch, but
when I came back from my honeymoon
and asked for a $10 raise, they weren’t so

understanding (I was then making $40 a
week).

“T quit journalism and went with J.
Walter Thompson Co. in Washington.
For a year or so, I edited the Trailways
Magazine, a house-organ for one of our
clients. Then I moved to New York and
the Eastman Kodak account. Within a
year I found out that advertising and
public relations were not for me. I hated
the pandering, the politics, the intrinsic
dishonesty.

“In the summer of ’62 I heard the
Saturday Evening Post was hiring. I ap-
plied and was hired as a caption writer.
‘The then editor was an aviation buff. So
am I. Within six months I was an assis-
tant editor; within a year, associate editor
and staff writer. In the spring of 63 our
executive editor came racing down the
hall one day trying to find someone who
spoke Spanish. I answered, ‘Si, Senor’—
the only words of Spanish I knew. Two
weeks later I was in Latin America—the
first of about 15 trips I would take to that
part of the world over the next three
years.

Luck stayed with me. I got to Vietnam
with—of all people—Bob Hope in ’65 and
went back for an extended reporting tour
in ’67. I was in Cairo the morning the Six
Day War began. I remember calling down
for room service and being told, ‘I’m sorry,
sir, we Cannot serve you breakfast; we are
being bombed.’ And so they were. I had
the entertainment beat (Hollywood-Eur-
ope) for a while—healthy for the expense
account, but rather unsatisfying otherwise
—and covered politics. In ’66 I came to
Washington as manager of the small
bureau here.

Early in ’69 the Saturday Evening Post
sent me to San Diego to cover the Pueb'o
court of inquiry. A funny thing happened
on my way to the office: the Post folded.
I’d been talking about writing a book for
five years, but like most writers I’d_ pro-
crastinated. My agent suggested it was
time to get off my duff. I gave him an
outline. Coward-McCann bought it and off
I went.

“For the next six months (after the
end of the court of inquiry) I boondoggled
my way across this country, to Hawaii,
Japan, and South Korea. The writing—
as is always the case for me—was difficult.
I set up shop in the attic (complete with
an erratic air conditioner, wasps, and one
bat) and tried to grind out 1,200 words
every day. I missed my original deadline
by six months—par for the course for me.

ALUMNI: 0:

But then again, I’d originally intended to
write a short book: 80,000 words. The
published tome ran to more than 200,000
words. The moral questions—dilemmas,
really—were fascinating to write about.
So were the screw-ups in the intelligence
community. And Comdr. Lloyd M. Bucher
was enormously helpful.

“I finished the book and discovered
that I was about flat broke. The Reader’s
Digest asked me to do a piece on corrup-
tion in the UMW. I did and got involved
in the Yablonski murder story. I’ve been
deep into that for some six months and
don’t expect to publish until some time in
‘72. With all modesty, I think the story is
a winner.”

Armbrister said he pledged Sigma Nu
and partied his way through his sopho-
more year. “Then I went to the Harvard
summer school and studied under the
poet, Paul Engle, director of the writers’
workshop at Iowa. When I got back to
Lexington, my grades improved a bit. In
retrospect, I think W&L was the perfect
place for me to go, and I’m glad that I
went there.”

He said he and his wife enjoy tennis
during their leisure time and “with our
two kids, we’re about to take up skiing.”

The Armbristers now live in Chevy
Chase, Md.

Hudson's happy 100th

Frederick M. Hudson, Washington and
Lee’s oldest degree holder, celebrated his
100th birthday on February 2 by sending
his University a gift and taking an unusual
day off.

Fred Hudson, you see, is Florida’s
oldest practicing lawyer and goes daily to
his office in Miami where he deals in pro-
bate cases, wills and trusts, and the stock
market.

“I am not lazy, and I don’t want to
sit over in the corner and wither up,” he
says.

Hudson was in the Florida State Sen-
ate for 14 years and was president of that
body in 1909. He is, of course, Florida’s
oldest living former senator.

He received his B. A. degree from
Washington and Lee in 1890 and his law
degree in 1892. His 100th birthday coin-
cides with another centennial—the change
in the name of his alma mater from Wash-
ington College to Washington and Lee
University.

Besides work, Hudson still enjoys three
cigars a day.

14>: ALUMNI

 

for

honoring

1921 1931 1946
(50th) (40th) (25th)
and

dates now.

 

May 7 and 8

1971 Spring Class Reunions

Academic and Law Classes

(15th)

SAVE THESE DATES

1961
(10th)

1956

The Old Guard

(Those who were at W&L more than 50 years ago)

 

An informative and entertaining program is being prepared for you.
Make your plans now to be present for a rewarding weekend on the
Washington and Lee campus.

Invitations and reservation forms will be mailed to you. But save the

 

 

Chapter correspondents

Arpalachian—A. C. Smeltzer, '29, 127 West
diain Street, Abingdon, Virginia 24210
Arkansas—Richard C. Butler, III, ’59, 36 River
Ridge Rd., Little Rock, Ark. 72207
Atlanta—R. William Ide, III, ’62, 3126 Roberta
Drive, N. W., Atlanta, Georgia 30327
Augusta-Rockingham—Robert L. Rhea, ’58,
619 Fraser Lane, Staunton, Va. 24401
Baltimore—Thomas J. Kenny, ’54, Rt. 7,
ern Avenue, Pikesville, Maryland
- Birmingham—William E. Smith, Jr., ’63, 15
Norman Drive, Birmingham, Ala. 35213
Charleston, West Virginia—William T. W.
Brotherton, Jr., '47, 1020 Kanawha Valley
Building, Charleston, W. Va. 25301
Charlotte—Harry J. Grim, ’52, 2522 Sherwood
Avenue, Charlotte, North Carolina 28207
Chattanooga—Wesley G. Brown, ’51, Penn
Mutual Life Ins. Co., Lobby Maclellan
Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402
Chicago—William H. Hillier, ’38, 321 West
Lincoln Avenue, Wheaton, Ill. 60187
Cleveland—Peter M. Weimer, ’63, c/o The W.
F, Ryan Corp., 3940 Euclid Ave., Cleveland,
Ohio 44115
Cumberland Valley—O. Thomas Kaylor, Jr..,
45, 940 The Terrace, Hagerstown, Md. 21740
Danville—F. Nelson Light, ’52, Route No. 2,
Box 695, Chatham, Va. 24531
Florida West Coast—J. Thomas Touchton, ’60,
3701 Bayshore Blvd., Tampa, Florida 33611
Gulf Stream—J. Alan Cross, Jr., °51, 9700
Dominican Drive, Cutler Ridge, Miami,
Florida 33157
Houston—Fred B. Griffin, ’60, 4005 Chatham,
Houston, Texas 77027

Jacksonville—John G. McGiffin, III, ’68, 4114
McGirts Blvd., Jacksonville, Fla. 32201
Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, ’49, 814 Westover
Road, Kansas City, Mo. 64113 ;
Louisville—A. R. Boden, Jr., '52, 3913 Druid
Hill Road, Louisville, Ky. 40207
Lynchburg—James D. Taylor, ’41, P.O. Box
97, Lynchburg, Va. 24505
Mid-South—Donald A. Malmo, ’50, 395 South
Yates Road, Memphis, Tenn. 38117
Mobile—G.
Cook, 517 First

Sage Lyons, ’58, Lyons, Pipes &
National Bank Bldg.,
Mobile, Ala. 36602

New Orleans—Gus A. Fritchie, Jr., °50, 213
Cleveland Ave., Slidell, La. 70458

New River-Greenbrier—Thomas A. Myles, ’16,
Box 126, Fayetteville, W. Va. 25840

New York—Matthews A. Griffith, ’40, 2 West
16th Street, New York, New York 10011

Norfolk—Frank H. Callahan, Jr., ’°52, 1401
Brunswick Ave., Norfolk, Va. 23508

North Texas—Richard D. Haynes, ’58, 2921
LTV Tower, Dallas, Texas 75201

Northern California—John A. Williamson, II,
53, 3147 Stevens Creek Blvd., Santa Clara,
Calif. 95050 ;

Northern Louisiana—M. Alton Evans. Jr., ’63,
P. O. Box 639, Shreveport, La. 71102 :

Palm Beach-Ft. Lauderdale—Hugh S. Glick-
stein, 53, 2188 Hollywood Blvd., Hollywood,

Fla. 33020 :
Palmetto—William M. Bowen, ’'63, Dowling,

ae ae Sanders and Dukes, Beaufort,
S. C. 29902
Peninsula—Frank S. Beazlie, Jr., ’40, 1205

Mallicotte Lane, Newport News, Va. 23606
Pensacola—Robert D. Hart, Jr., 63, 3985 Pied-
mont Rd., Pensacola Fla. 32503

Philadelphia—Arthur Blank, II, ’60, Reynolds
Co., 1526 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.
19102

Piedmont—Walter L. Hannah, ’50, 5100 Lau-
vinda Dr., Greensboro, N.C. 27410

Pittsburgh—John E. Perry, ’38, 1330 Terrace
Drive. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15228

Richmond—Joseph M. Spivey, ’62, 4207 Brom-
ley Lane, Richmond, Va, 23221

Roanoke— William J, Lemon, '57, 2201 Grandin

Road, S. W., Roanoke, Va. 24015

Rockbridge—Robert W. H. Mish, Jr., '46,
15 West Washington Street, Lexington, Va.
24450

San Antonio Texas—Brentano C. Harnisch, '39,
231 Burr Road, San Antonio, Texas 78209

St. Louis—Bruce E. Bussen, ’56 Bussen
Road. St. Louis, Mo. 63129

Savannah River—Tudor Hall, ’60, P.O. Box
116, Beech Isiand, S.C. 29842

South Carolina Piedmont—Alvin T. Fleish-
man, ’41, P. O. Drawer 1049, Anderson, §. Cc.
29621

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick,
53, 2026 North Olive, Santa Ana., Calif. 9270¢

Southern Ohio—Stanley A. Hooker, Jr., '39,
1185 Beverly Hills Drive, Cincinnati, Onjo
45226
1 J. Barry Epperson, ’60, 2440 Bk, 4

TSE” Tulsa, Oklahoma 74105 5th

Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, Jr., "43, 507
Cam bert ae: ey a 2150
shington—Edson B. s, ’61, For

aE: Rockville, Md. 20850 iso dham

Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, ’52, Box
Wilmington, Del. 19807 3958,

“~*

Class notes

 

 

 

 

‘THE

WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14.
Price: $39.00 f.o0.b.

Gardner, Massachusetts

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
The normal shipping interval is

five to six weeks after the receipt of
the order.

 

 

1911

In October, 1970, the Georgia Military Aca-

demy named MIcHAEL Brown (GMA ’08) its’

Distinguished Alumnus. Currently, Brown is
owner and president of M. Brown Timber Co.
and president of the M. Brown Investment
Co. in Matawan, N.J. He has been associated
with the American Shipbuilding Co., the
American West Indies Export Co. and in 1920
he organized the Piggly-Wiggly Manhattan
Corp. of New York.

1914

WARREN C. Brown, a retired insurance man-
ager, lives in El Paso, Tex., where he is a
vestryman at St. Clement’s Episcopal Church
and a past president of the Council of
Churches.

1916

L. BATTLE BAGLEY of Fayetteville, Tenn. has
recalled that he officiated in all four of the
major football bowl games. In 1938, he officiat-
ed the Sugar Bowl game between Santa Clara
and LSU. A year later, Bagley officiated the
Rose Bowl game won by USC over Duke. In
1944, it was LSU vs. Texas A&M in the
Orange Bowl, and Bagley’s last was the Cotton
Bowl game in 1946 when LSU played Arkan-
sas. Battle’s first experience as an official was
in 1917 while he was at Fort Jackson, S.C.,
where he called some of the games at the
University of South Carolina. His officiating
career lasted 33 years, and included nearly
500 games.

eal

Dr. DANIEL BLAIN of Philadelphia has receiv-
ed a grant from the National Library of
Medicine through HEW to write a book en-
titled History of Psychiatry in U.S.A. (1945-
1970).

192>

FRANK B. Hurt retired last June as professor
emeritus of social sciences at Ferrum Junior
College.

After nine years in Goose Creek, S.C., the
REV. RAYMOND G. WICKERSHAM has moved
to Florala, Ala., where he is minister of the
First Presbyterian Church.

$925

FRANK T. MITCHELL, after 38 years service with
the First National City Bank of New York,
is now retired, but serves as a director to a
local bank in Naples, Fla.

M. R. Bruin traveled from Virginia to Mexico
in December, 1969, and spent six weeks there.
He is active in the Draper (Va.) Presbyterian
Church and worked in Sen. Harry Byrd’s po-
litical campaign.

1926

After 43 years with the Bell System, HENRY
McGILL WILSON retired in 1969. He remains
active in civic and church activities, and he
is chairman of the board of the Community
Hospital and is a founder and director of
Junior Achievement in Owensboro, Ky.

CLASS NOTES: 45

 

ALLEN B. MORGAN, ’29

P27

N. MAxson TERRY has recently been appointed
one of three members of the preliminary in-
vestigatory committee of the Court of the
Judiciary of the state of Delaware. The court
has jurisdiction to censor or remove members
of the judiciary.

The Rev. R. WILBUR SIMMONS is serving St.
Andrew’s Presbyterian Parish in Te Kauw-
hata, New Zealand. He was a delegate to the
Uniting Council of World Alliance of Re-
formed Churches and the International Con-
gregational Council held in Nairobi, Kenya
in August, 1970.

RasBi DAvip H. WICE was a member of the
1970 White House Conference on Children
and Youth. He is also chairman of the execu-
tive board of the World Union for Progres-

sive Judaism.
1929

ALLEN B. MorGAN, chairman of the board and
chief executive officer of the First National
Bank of Memphis, has been elected a direc-
tor of Mohasco Industries, Inc. Long promi-
nent in the Southern banking industry, Mor-
gan joined First National in 1929. He was
elected vice president in 1937, president in
1960, and chairman of the board in 1969.
Morgan is also a director of South Central
Bell Telephone Co., Allied Bank Interna-
tional, the Federal Co., and Holiday Inns,
Inc. He is a member of the Federal Reserve
Advisory Council, and chairman of the Ameri-
can Bankers Association Foundation for Edu-
cation and Economics.

1930

CHARLES W. Cocke is the regional field officer
in Mississippi for the Office of Civil Defense.

193]

Dr. LEONARD C. BorLAND is president of the
Men’s Garden Club of Virginia. In April,
1971, the Roanoke club will host the national
meeting.

lo: CLASS NOTES

1932

Dr. WiLLIAM D. Hoyt is president of the
Essex County (Mass.) Historical Association,
president of the local Friends of the Library,
and vice president and curator of the Sandy
Bay Historical Society.

1933

WILLIAM H. H. Wertz, an attorney from
Wooster, Ohio, has been nominated for mem-
bership among the Honorary 100 Alumni, a
group of advisers to the newly created School
of Natural Resources at Ohio State Univer-
sity. Ihe advisers are to assure that the pro-
grams of the school are in tune with natural
resources and related environmental problems.
Wertz has served on many state and national
committees concerned with conservation. He
has been a member of the Great Lakes Fish-
ing Commission, the Ohio Water Commis-
sion, and the advisory council to the Depart-
ment of Industrial and Economic Develop-

| 1934

RoserT B. SHIveLy of Chambersburg, Pa. has
been named a Time magazine Quality Dealer
Award winner for 1971. Shively, who is presi-
dent and general manager of Shively Motors,
Inc., is one of only 71 dealers in the nation
selected for the Time honor. He is a former
member of the board of trustees of Wilson
College, the Chambersburg Hospital, the
Farmers & Merchants Trust Co., and the
Chamber of Commerce.

1935

FREDERICK D. STRONG has been appointed con-
troller of Trinity-Pawling School, a private
boarding school in Pawling, N.Y.

1936

HucH J. Bonino has sold his interest in a
chemical company, Crown-Metro, to the USM
Corp. He is now vice president and director
of Crown-Metro’s Southern plant and opera-
tions in Greenville, S.C.

 

ROBERT B. SHIVELY, '34

GREGORY S$. Maury, Jr. has been promoted to
manager of telecommunications of Reynolds
Metals Co. in Richmond.

WALTER T. LAwTON, JR. is director of Camp
Madison Felicia, one of the oldest camps in
America. The organization is a year-round
facility serving inner city children in the
summer and serving inner city adolescents
and adults in the winter, as well as hosting
professional conferences.

1937

In addition to his duties as president and
chief executive officer of Caspers Tin Plate
Co., HAROLD W. CocHRAN has been named
chairman of the board. Caspers is the largest
independent metal lithographer in the coun-
try, with headquarters in Chicago.

In October, 1970, PARKE ROUSE, JR. was one
of three Virginia representatives invited by
the government of Bermuda to the opening
of its 350th session of Parliament, which was
addressed by the Prince of Wales. Parke is
the author of two forthcoming books: James
Blair, King-Maker of Virginia and The Great
Wagon Road from Philadelphia to the South.

WILLIAM H. DANIEL has moved from Tulsa to
Rogers, Ark., where he has interest in a plant
manufacturing water tanks, poultry brooders,
as well as pumps, and a line of heat ex-
changers.

1938

In appreciation for his efforts to improve
education in Alabama, the Alabama Broad-
casters Association has named Dr. Harry M.
PHILPOTT, president of Auburn, its Citizen-
of-the-Year.

COURTLAND N. SMITH, JR. is in the automatic
car wash business in Glen Ridge, N.J. He is
also vice president of Sherman Supersonic
Industries, and president of a distributor-
ship for Smith-Thacher, Inc.

C. PRICE BERRYMAN of Coffeyville, Kan. has
been appointed by Gov. Robert Docking to
the position of commissioner of the Kansas
Industrial Development Commission. He is a
past president of the Coffeyville Chamber of
Commerce and a regional vice president of
the Kansas state Chamber of Commerce. A
former member of the board of Rotary Inter-
national, Berryman has also been chairman of
his city planning commission for three years.

Sigma Delta Chi, the national journalism fra-
ternity, has awarded Rosert M. Wuite, II,
editor and publisher of the Mexico (Mo.)
Ledger, its highest honor—the Wells Memorial
Key. White is a past president of Sigma
Delta Chi, and his career has carried him to
the Chicago Sun-Times, the New York Her-
ald Tribune, and back to the Mexico Ledger.
He has served on the board of directors of
many national newspaper organizations.

1939

Joun T. Fey, president of the National Life
Insurance Co., has been elected chairman of
the Life Insurance Association of America for
1971. Fey was president of the University of

Vermont from 1958 to 1964 and president of
the University of Wyoming from 1964 to
1966, when he became president of National
Life.

W. Ceci HArpy, Jr. is co-manager of the
Parkersburg, W.Va., brokerage firm of Par-
ker, Hunter, Inc. The bulletin editor of the
Rotary Club, Hardy is also vice president of
the Parkersburg Community Foundation and
is a member of the transportation and traffic
committee of the Chamber of Commerce.

Gwynn W. Merritr is production planning
supervisor for DuPont Co. in its dacron divi-
sion. He is president of the Ayden (N.C.)
Golf and Country Club and a trustee of the
Methodist Church.

Pennsylvania Gov. Milton J. Shapp has named
Dr. ZALMON GARFIELD as his chief executive
assistant. Garfield, a Philadelphia psycholo-
gist, was acting director of Horizon House in

Philadelphia.
1940

Armco Steel Corp. has named C. E. Bair
district sales manager in Pittsburgh, Pa. Blair
joined Armco in 1941 and served in several
sales capacities before entering military serv-
ice. He returned to the firm in 1946 and was
transferred to Cleveland in 1948, where he
served as district sales representative. He has
also served in the Armco sales department in
New York City.

David LEE SPAULDING, who retired as captain
from the U.S. Navy in 1967, is with the GSA
as a management analyst for Federal Supply

Service.
194]

WILLIAM LEE SHANNON is treasurer of the
board of the Old Mason’s Home of Ken-
tucky. A part-time instructor at the Ken-
tucky School of Mortuary Science, Shannon
is also on the boards of the Kentucky Baptist
Hospital and the Shelbyville Independent

School District.
1942

After 18 years in the marine insurance busi-
ness, JOHN H. MCMILLAN joined Southdown,
Inc. of New Orleans. Currently, McMillan
is vice president for administration of South-
down Lands, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary.

RICHARD T.. WRIGHT, a home builder and rea]
estate developer from Annandale, Va., has
been installed as president of the Metropoli-
tan Washington Builders Association. Wright
has been a past president of Home Builders
Association of Surburban Virginia and a di-
rector of the National Association of Home
Builders. In his community, he has been a
member of the Fairfax County Water Au-
thority, chairman of the Citizens Advisory
Committee, a member of the Public Works
Committee, and a member of the county
Building Code and Appeals Committee. Most
recently, he was named chairman of a Fairfax
County task force on low and moderate in-
come housing.

Now in his 16 year, REv. KENNETH S. CrEN-
DANIEL has served as academic dean and was
recently named vice president for develop-
ment of the Clear Creek Baptist School in
Pineville, Ky.

1943

DoNALD GARRETSON was the keynote speaker
at the 17th Annual Institute of the School of
Business at the University of Minnesota.

1944

FRED M. VALz, JR. is manager of the marketing
engineering department at Lockheed-Georgia
Co. in Atlanta.

Formerly with the Professional Golf Co. of
Chattanooga, Tenn., GEorGE T. Woop has re-
cently moved to Louisville, Ky., where he is
associated with the Monarch Equipment Co.

Dr. WILLIAM P. PEAK is a past president of
the Kentucky Arthritis Foundation. He is on
the faculty at the University of Louisville’s
School of Medicine and is the author of
numerous articles for medical journals.

JAMEs H. O’Connor, a Baltimore life insur-
ance executive, has been appointed regional
superintendent of agencies—Middle Atlantic
States—by the Philadelphia Life Insurance
Co. O’Connor began his life insurance career
in 1958 when he joined Mutual Life of New
York as an agent in Baltimore. He has been
a consistent member of Philadelphia Life’s
Circle of Stars, a club of million-dollar-a-year
producers. Before entering the life insurance
business, O’Connor was a salesman and truck
manager at Towson Ford Sales in Towson,
Md. O'Connor is education chairman and
past director of the Baltimore Chapter of
C.L.U., chairman of the speaker’s bureau of
the Baltimore Life Underwriters, and a mem-
ber of the Philadelphia Life C.L.U. Associa-

| 1945

ELLIOT SCHEWEL, along with two other Wash-
ington and Lee men—REvV. JOsEPH S. CROWDER,
‘39, and Rev. Cart H. DoucLass were among
eight new members elected in October, 1970
to the board of trustees of Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College.

Gov. Marvin Mandel of Maryland has pre-
sented the Maryland Big Brothers Award for

 

JAMEs H. O’CONNOR, °44

service to youth to JosePpH M. ZAMOISKI, presi-
dent of the Big Brothers organization in
Washington, D.C. The ceremony was held in
the governor’s office in Annapolis in conjunc-
tion with the observance of Big Brothers
Week, January 3-10.

1946

Harry W. WELLForD, a Memphis attorney,
has received a Presidential nomination to
fill the newly created federal judgeship for
West Tennessee. Wellford served as West
Tennessee campaign manager for Sen. How-
ard Baker in 1966 and as campaign manager
for Gov. Winfield Dunn.

1947

Along with four other partners, PHILIP
BRAUNSCHWEIG has acquired Chamberlin Rub-
ber Co., a New York state distributor and
manufacturer of industrial rubber products.

The Sunday Gazette-Mail of Charleston,
W.Va., has named SEN. WILLIAM T. BROTHER-
TON, JR. as its West Virginian-of-the-Year for
1970. Brotherton was cited for his leadership
in the formation of the Legislative Purchas-
ing Practices and Procedures Commission.
The Commission is accorded some of the
credit for reducing illegal expenditures in
the state. Brotherton was elected to the House
of Delegates in 1952. He left the House in
1964 after four years as majority leader and
was elected to the Senate.

Doubleday & Co., Inc. has named STEWART
B. RICHARDSON as its executive editor. Before
joining Doubleday in 1966, Richardson was
with Houghton Mifflin and had also been
with J. P. Lippincott Co. of Philadelphia.

1948

JAMEs M. BALLENGEE, president and chairman
of the Philadelphia Suburban Corp., has been
elected to the board of trustees of the Phil-
adelphia Savings Fund Society. Ballengee be-
came president and chairman of the Phil-
adelphia Suburban Corp., a holding com-
pany based in Bryn Mawr, Pa. in 1968. He is

 

STEWART B. RICHARDSON, °47

GLASS NOTES: 17

also chairman and chief executive officer of
the Philadelphia Suburban Water Co. From
1957 to 1961, he was legal counsel for Sears,
Roebuck, & Co. Ballengee is a director of
several companies and is president of the
board of Bryn Mawr Hospital, and he is ac-
tive in the Valley Forge Council of the Boy
Scouts of Amercia and the Pennsylvania
state Chamber of Commerce.

1949

The Rev. JAMEs T. MAGRuDER, a Presbyterian
missionary in Japan, will be in Atlanta during
his year’s furlough. He will serve as admini-
strative head of the Interboard Committee
on Crises. The committee, established in
1968, is to deal with “emergencies such as na-
tural disasters, social crises, and human dis-

| 1950

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GEorGE H. DENNY, JR.,
a son, Brian William, on Nov. 10.

I. LEAKE WorNOM, JR. is president of the
Newport News (Va.) Bar Association.

ROBERT BLEAKLEY JAMES, JR. has been ap-
pointed a member of the General Service Ad-
ministration Board of Contract Appeals. He
is also a director of the National Conference
Board of Contract Appeals members. Active
in civic affairs, James is serving a third term
as vice president of the Annandale, Va. Civic
Association. He is a member of the bars of
Virginia, the District of Columbia, the U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals, and the U.S. Su-
preme Court.

Lawyers Title Insurance Corp. of Richmond,
Va. has announced the promotion of FREDER-
IcK H. KLOSTERMEYER to assistant counsel for
claims. Klostermeyer joined Lawyers Title
Insurance Corp. in 1962 when he moved to
Richmond from Charleston, W.Va., where he
practiced law for six years.

After

practicing medicine in Clendenin,

W.Va. for 10 years, Dr. GEorGE H. PIERSON is
now in his third year of radiology speciality
training at the University of North Carolina.

 

JAMEs M. BALLENGEE, 48

183 CLASS NOVES

R. DABNEY CHAPMAN is consul and public af-
fairs officer at the U.S. Consulate General in
Zagreb, Yugoslavia.

boa]

ANDREW W. GOTTSCHALL, JR., an associate pro-
fessor of sociology at Guilford College, has
been appointed to the Greensboro, N.C.
Youth Commission.

1952

Formerly chief assistant city editor for the
Washington, D.C. Star, PHILIP ROBBINS is now
associate professor of journalism at George
Washington University.

RAYMOND W. HAMAN is serving as chairman
of the Special Levy Study Commission for
the state of Washington. The statewide
group, consisting of educators, legislatures,
school board members, and citizens, has been
formed to make an in-depth survey of pro-
grams and finances of education from kin-
dergarten through high school.

1953

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. F. L. SHIPMAN, JR. a
son, Frank L., III, on Sept. go in Wilton,
Conn.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RoBerT O. GLASIER, a
son, Andrew Orcutt, on May 6 in Brussels,
Belgium. Glasier is entering his third year as
European and Middle East sales and market-
ing manager for Hollingsworth & Vase, manu-
facturers of technical papers.

St GALPERIN, JR. has been elected to the West
Virginia Senate.

RICHARD P. Ross received his M.B.A. from
the University of Michigan in 1958. He is
currently group product manager at Andrew
Jergens Co. in Cincinnati.

After 12 years with the Bank of America,
JERRY G. SoutTH has been promoted to vice
president and executive assistant to the presi-
dent. Before his recent promotion, he served
in the legal department, and as secretary and
counsel of the bank.

FRED LACKMAN is teaching journalism and
foreign languages at Interlake High School
in Bellevue, Wash. He is also a copy editor
for the Seattle Times.

JAMES FREEDMAN is vice president of the Reli-
able Manufacturer Co., retailers and whole-
salers of picture frames and mirrors. Reliable
is a division of Dart Industries.

After more than four years as a systems en-
gineer with the IBM Corp., Rupy KNAKAL is
now marketing representative in the data pro-
cessing division in the Poughkeepsie (N.Y.)

branch.
1955

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. DAvip A. WOUTERS, a
daughter, Sharon, on Oct. 3 in Tokyo, Japan.
Wouters is currently assistant to the vice
president of Coca-Cola (Japan).

Leroy H. SIMKINS, JR. is a partner in a real
estate brokerage firm in Augusta, Ga. He
has been active in politics and in community

 

LAURENCE LEVITAN, ’55

affairs, including the YMCA and the Associa-
tion for Retarded Children.

LAURENCE LEVITAN has been elected to the
Maryland State Legislature for a four year

| 1956

ROBERT G. SCHULTz, JR., an attorney from
Medina, Ohio, is assistant county prosecutor.

JOHN Hovper is manager of internal auditing
and financial analysis for the York division
of Borg-Warner Corp. in York, Pa.

After 12 years in the U.S. Army, W. M.
GREENE is now assistant manager of the Red
Lobster Restaurant in Orlando, Fla.

MASON L. HAMPTON, JR. practices law on Long
Island. He has run for both state and na-
tional political offices. Most recently, he has
been in Vietnam, working on cases involving
the defense of American soldiers.

DANIEL B. THOMPSON attended Cornell Uni-
versity’s executive development program in
its graduate School of Business. He is cur-
rently with Campbell Soup Co. in Camden,
N.J. as director of container purchasing.

1957

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN EARLY MCDONALD,
JR., a son, John Early, III, on Nov. 27.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. A. JACKSON MASON, a
son, John, on Oct. 6. Mason is a partner in
the Mason-Davis Co., a real estate firm in

Accomac, Va.
1958

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. VERNON W. HOLLEMAN,
Jr., a son, Vernon W., III, on Jan. 8.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RicHARD C. LEwIs, a
son, James William, on Sept. 24.

Following four years of residency in obstetrics
and gynocology, Dr. WATSON G. WATRING 1s
currently under a fellowship in gynocology
at the City of Hope National Medical Center
in Los Angeles.

1959

MARRIED: Evan J. Kemp, Jr. to Jane Mc-
Master Copeland on Sept. 19. GREGG HOoL-
LORAN, ‘60. and CLEM GUNN, JR., ‘61, were
among the groomsmen. Kemp is an attorney
in the division of corporate regulation of the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

C. Royce Houcu is a senior vice president of
Wachovia Bank, and is serving as manager
of the corporate accounts department.

DwicuTt L. Guy is with the Seattle law firm
of Detels, Draper, & Marinkovich, specializing
in admirality law.

After nine years with the Pittsburgh National
Bank, JOHN G. KOEDEL, JR. joined National
Forge Co. in 1968. He has been promoted to

| 1960

MARRIED: CHARLEs G. BUFFUM, III, to Suz-
anne Kohlsaat Agnew on May go in Fox Cha-
pel, Pa.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs I. GREENE, a
daughter, Margaret Rachel, on May 26.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMes R. LOUTIT, a
son, Douglas McLeod, on Nov. 6.

Davip K. WEAVER has completed his require-
ments for a Ph.D. degree in wildlife man-
agement.

SANDY C. MArks, after leaving the U.S. Navy
Dental Corps, has joined the faculty of the
University of Massachusetts Medical School in
Worcester. He teaches anatomy, and is pur-
suing research into the hormonal control of
bone formation and calcium homeostasis.

Dr. DoucLas E. BARNARD, after a year’s tour
in Vietnam, is now with the Naval Hospital
in Boston.

PAUL PLAWIN, associate editor of Changing
Times, has been elected to membership in
the National Press Club.

South Carolina Gov. John West has announc-
ed the appointment of PHILIP G. Grose, Jr.
as executive assistant for public affairs. Grose,
a native of Greenville, S.C., was a member
of Gov. Robert E. McNair’s staff since 1968,
first as research assistant, and, since Novem-
ber, 1970, as news secretary. He was formerly
governmental affairs editor and business edi-
tor of the newspaper in Columbia, and a staff
writer for the Charlotte Observer and
Broadcasting magazine in New York City.
Grose will administer policy with regard to
the governor’s public affairs, human relations,
and information services.

1961

Dr. JOHN W. ATWELL, JR., assistant professor
of history and chairman of the Russian studies
program at Hollins College, received a Ho).
lins-Ford Foundation grant which enabled
him to attend a summer 1970 conference of
historians in Leningrad and to do research
in the Lenin Library in Moscow.

CALVERT G. DECOLIGNY, JR. is the Eastern re.
gional manager in the international Market-
ing department of H. H. Robertson Co. a
building products manufacturer.

After receiving his master’s degree in engi-
neering administration from George Wash-
ington University, WALTER J. CRATER, JR.
is now employed by Systems Consultants, Inc.,
in Washington, D.C.

After doing internship in Roanoke and mili-
tary duty in Vietnam, Dr. STEPHEN L. THOmp-
sON is in the general practice of medicine in
Rustburg, Va.

RICHARD L. KUERSTEINER is serving as counsel
for the officer in charge of construction, Re-
public of Vietnam, Department of the Navy,

in Saigon.

MARRIED: Dr. JOHN W. Poynor to Nancy
McCall, on Dec. 5 in Mobile, Ala. Dr. THoMAs
T. DONALD, ’62, and PETER A. AGELAsTo, III,
‘62, were among the groomsmen.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HENRY LEE CARTER, a
son, Llewellyn Henry Sullivan, on Aug. 21.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. E. RAwson FOREMAN,
a daughter, Margaret Trot, on Dec. 4. Rawson
is a partner with the Atlanta law firm of
Jones, Bird, & Howell.

After serving with the U.S. Navy for two
years, Dr. G. L. HickAm will practice pediat-
rics in Roanoke, Va., beginning June, 1971.

After receiving the Ph.D. in business admini-
stration from American University, Dr. JAMEs
S. SAGNER is senior consultant for Disc, a com-
puter software company. He is also a profes-
sor at Morgan State College in Baltimore.

1963

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Epwin P. GARRETSON, a
daughter, Stacey Anne Chambery, on Sept. 24.
After two years in Vienna on Fulbright grants,
Garretson is currently an assistant professor
of history at Washington State University.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WARREN B. HUGHES, a
son, Brian Charles, on Oct. 26. Hughes is as-
sociate product manager for R. T. French Co.
in Fairport, N.Y.

STEPHEN GUILD is a Fellow in the Center for
International Education at the University of
Massachusetts.

Maj. RoBert R. CAMPBELL is stationed at
Fort Rucker, Ala., where he is a doctor and
chief of the radiology department.

J. Ricard Uutic is working for American
Airlines in New York City as manager of

terminals.
1964

MARRIED: JoHN MARK SAMET to Elizabeth
M. Schnabel in Philadelphia in September.
Samet is in the second year of an internal
medicine residency at the University of
North Carolina.

MARRIED: Freperick J. KRALL to Susan
Drum on Sept. 26. Krall is currently assistant
product manager for Warner-Lambert, work-
‘ng on new product development.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Brice R. GAMBER, a
son, Derek Todd, in Sept., 1970. Gamber is an

assistant vice president at Chubb & Son, Inc.
in New York.

After a year in Vietnam as adjutant of the
grd Field Hospital, DAvip J. ANDRE was re-
leased from service and is now practicing
law in Winchester, Va.

Capt. Lewis B. MCNEACE, Jr. is stationed at
McClellan AFB in California, where he is an
assistant staff judge advocate.

NATHANIEL M. GRIFFIN has been named assis-
tant planning director for the city of Roa-
noke. He received his master’s degree in city
planning from Ohio State University.

1965

MARRIED: RIicHARD CARRELL to Elizabeth
Palmer Hutcheson on Oct. 17 in Houston,
where Carrell is practicing law.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Davip H. ADAMS, a
daughter, Ann Arendell, on July 1 in Vir-
ginia Beach, Va.

Before entering the service, WILLIAM S. Davip
graduated from the Annenberg School of
Communications at the University of Penn-
sylvania in 1967. He entered the Marine
Corps and saw duty as platoon commander
of a rifle company in Vietnam, where he was
awarded the Bronze Star for valor. He was
released from service in August, 1970, and he
is now employed with J. Walter Thompson
Co., an advertising agency in New York City.

G. R. Dusus, III, completed active duty with
the U.S. Army, after receiving the Bronze
Star for service in Vietnam. He is now prac-
ticing law in Savannah, Ga.

Max L. SHAPIRA is now in Louisville, Ky.,
where he is associated with Heaven Hill Dis-
tilleries, Inc.

JAMES DEYOUNG, assistant to the vice presi-
dent for finance at Baxter Laboratories, has
been elected president of the Junior Govern-
ing Board of the Chicago Symphony.

1966
MARRIED: CrybeE H. FOosHee, Jr. to Eliza-
beth Updegraff on June 20. Foshee is now a
second year student at the University of
Louisville Law School.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS JAY CARPEN-
TER, a daughter, Cathleen Ann, on April 25.

BORN: Capt. and Mrs. BRucE W. RIDER, a
son, John Howard, on Nov. 10.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Harris MASLANSKY, a
son, Michael Frederic, on Sept. 14. Maslan-
sky is with the business affairs department of
Columbia Pictures.

After a year in Vietnam, JAMEs H. REDINGTON
is now academic instructor with the Depart-
ment of Tactics at the Army Aviation School
at Ft. Rucker, Ala.

WILLIAM L. PuTNAM has been appointed
manager of personnel services for Allied
Chemical Corp. Putnam is presently complet-
ing requirements for his M.B.A. at Fairleigh
Dickinson. He joined Allied Chemical in
July, 1966 and was formerly manager of em-
ployee services in the New York office.

GLASS NOTES: 1¢

 

JOHN B. Story, '66

The last four years has seen GRAyson C.
POWELL, JR. in graduate school, two years in
the Army, and employed for one year. He is
now teaching English at St. Paul’s College in
Lawrenceville, Va.

CAPT. THOMAS M. Epwarbs is stationed at the
U.S. Army Depot in DaNang, Vietnam, where
he is in charge of all vehicular assets.

Having finished his Ph.D. degree in chemis-
try, GERARD T’. TAyLor has accepted a post-
doctorate research position with Dr. H. A.
Scheraga at Cornell University. The project
concerns the synthetic aspects of polypeptides.

Lewis N. MILLER, JR. was released from Navy
service in October, 1969. He worked for First
& Merchants Bank in Richmond until Sep-
tember, 1970, when he entered the graduate
Business School at the University of Virginia.

DaAvib ‘T. SHUFFLEBARGER has been named di-
rector of university relations at Old Dominion
University in Norfolk, Va. Shufflebarger has
been a reporter for the Newport News Daily
Press and The Virginian-Pilot, as well as di-
rector of sports information at VMI.

LAWRENCE K. HELLMAN is an attorney in the
anti-trust division of the Department of Jus-
tice in Washington, D.C.

JOHN B. Story, a former securities salesman,
has been named to the career staff of the
Manchester general agency of National Life
Insurance Co. of Vermont. Story was prev-
iously with Clorostat Manufacturing Co., an
electronics parts maker in Dover, Vermont,
and he was also with two securities firms.

MARRIED: Stuart FINESTONE to Debbie Lef-
kowitz on July 5. Finestone is now practicing

law in Atlanta.
1968

MARRIED: JAMEs W. Bart Lett, III, to Jane
Graves on August 1. Lt. Bartlett is now serv-
ing with the U.S. Army military intelligence
at Fort George Meade.

4Oz CLASS NOVES

At the University of Louisville Law School,
HoOwARD MOceERF is a member of the Law
Review. He serves as part time law clerk for
the Legal Aid Society of Louisville.

Formerly a regional counsel for Pioneer Na-
tional Title Insurance Co., DAvip C. AIKEN
is now practicing law in Atlanta, Ga.

E. ELLis ZAHRA, JR. will graduate from the
University of Florida Law School in June,
1971. He is vice magister of Phi Delta Phi,
vice president of the Student Bar Association,
and attorney general of the University of
Florida’s Honor Court.

1969

MARRIED; RAYMOND J. ZELTNER to Jo-
hanna Yaple on May go in Lee Chapel. Zeltner
is currently in Marine OCS at Quantico, Va.

MARRIED: L. RIcHARD MCMILLAN, II to
Lynn Pottharst in June, 1970 in New Orleans,
McMillan is now attending Tulane Law
School.

MARRIED; Davip C. ENNIs to Donna Barnett
Knaver on October 5. Ensign Ennis is cur-
rently serving aboard the USS Somers in the
West Pacific.

Lr. W. WILLIAM MELNYK is doing community
relations work in the civil affairs section of
the Army support brigade in Mannheim, Ger-

many.
1970

MARRIED: Douctas E. CLARKE to Carey
Cleveland in June, 1970. Clarke entered law
school at the University of Houston in Janu-

ary 1971.

MARTIN B. TurPIN is employed by Lane Com-
pany, Inc., a furniture manufacturer, in their
sales department. He lives in Altavista, Va.

The National Bank of Commerce in Memphis,
Tenn. has announced the promotion of
ROBERT SOLMSON, of its credit department, to
the position of assistant cashier.

While a candidate for a Master of Divinity
degree at Drew Theological School, RICHARD
W. CAPRON is an assistant pastor to two
churches in Newark, N.J.

1971

A student at Cornell Law School, BRUCE W.
KEIHNER is editor of the Cornell Law Review.

In memoriam

1902

Dr. WILLIAM T. ELLIs, for many years chief
surgeon of the Stetson Hospital in Philadel-
phia. died Dec. 1. President Woodrow Wilson
appointed Ellis a member of the local draft
board in 1917. During World War I, Ellis
served as a captain in the medical corps. In
addition to his 50 years with the Stetson Hos-
pital, he also served as surgeon for the De-
partment of Public Safety for 35 years.

1904

AMERICUS DAWSON 'TRUNDLE, a long-time resi-
dent of Bethesda, Md., died Jan. 4. Trundle
was in the real estate business for many years.
He was a past officer of Sigma Nu fraternity.
One of Washington and Lee’s outstanding
athletes, Trundle was on the football teams
between 1900-03 and was team captain in
1903. He was also on the Harry Lee boat
crew in 1902 and 1903, and president of the
Athletic Association (1903-04). Trundle was
honored during halftime ceremonies during
Washington and Lee’s centennial football
game in the fall of 1969.

1916

Dr. JAMES HEREFORD MCGINNIs, retired re-
gional representative for unemployment secur-
ity with the U.S. Department of Labor, died
Dec. 15. A veteran of World War I, when he
earned the Silver Star with Oak Leaf Cluster,
McGinnis retired from the Department of

Labor in 1962.
1917

Dr. G. HoLsprook BARBER, a distinguished
physician and former medical director of the
Manhattan Life -Insurance Co., died Nov. 6
in Long Island, N.Y.

1921

GRAHAM ALEXANDER WHITE, for many years
associated with the Sinclair Refining Co., died
July 14 in Enid, Okla.

SOLLY ALBERT HAR?Tzo, a former professor of
political science at Washington and Lee and
for many years head of the political science
department at Lake Forest College in Illinois,
died Oct. 23.

BENJAMIN HAYNIE NEBLETT of Monrovia,
Calif. died May 18. For several years, Neblett
practiced law, and was the first judge of the
Juvenile and Domestic Relations Court for
Lunenburg County. Later, he was associated
with his kinsman, Col. William Haynie Neb-
lett, of the firm of McAdoo, Neblett, & O’Con-
ner in Los Angeles, Calif. In 1933, Neblett was
appointed assistant to the general counsel of
the Bureau of Internal Revenue, representing
a number of the Western states and the
Hawaiian Islands.

B. HUNTER Barrow, Jr., retired judge of Din-
widdie County Court and Dinwiddie Juvenile
and Domestic Relations Court, died Nov. g.
Barrow retired this past August after serving
slightly more than 4o years as the only man to
head the county system of lower courts. He
also practiced law in the county. Barrow was
Dinwiddie County’s representative on the
board of directors of the Richmond-Peters-
burg Turnpike Authority. He also served 14
years on the State Hospital Board of Mental

Hospitals.
1923

Frep L. WHITE, an attorney from Petersburg,
Va., died Aug. 27. White was also in the land
development business, as well as in the small

loan business.
1924

WILLIAM K. MANNING, an investment banker
from Dallas, Tex., died in October. Manning
was formerly associated with Wood Struthers

& Co. of Dallas and was engaged in the se-
curities business.

H. Stites Asusy, for 43 years prominent in
the hardware business in Fayetteville, Tenn.,
died Nov. 21. Ashby took a leading part in the
business, civic, and religious affairs of the
community. For 26 years, he was a member of
the city Board of Education. He was a direc-
tor of the Union National Bank for 19 years,
and was chairman from 1966 until his death.

JoHN Stmpson HAWKINS, a native of Clifton
Forge, Va., died Oct. 30. He was a retired con-
struction supervisor for the C&O Railroad and
was a member of the Clifton Forge Presby-
terian Church. From 1943 until 1955, Hawkins
was associated with the DuPont Co. in
Waynesboro, Va.

1925

GEORGE T. CLARK, a Dade County (Fla.) judge
since 1959 and a prominent Miami attorney
since 1925, died Nov. 19. Noted for his scholar-
ly competence on the bench, Clark was re-
garded as a specialist in the probate and
real estate fields. Clark was a member of the
Dade County, Florida state, and American Bar
Associations. He served the Dade group as a
director, treasurer, and vice president.

1926

RICHARD W. LIVINGSTON, a shoe manufacturer
from New Oxford, Pa., died Nov. 15 after a
long illness. Livingston was also director of
the Adams County National Bank and was
an executive with the E. C. Livingston Shoe
Co. He was past president of the Annie M.
Warner Hospital.

1927

CARL HERMAN MAcRILL, formerly with the
Pocahontas Fuel Co. of Bluefield, W.Va. and
a former postal clerk in Pocahontas, Va., died

Aug. 15.
1928

GEORGE STUART DE PAss, veteran Spartan-
burg, S.C. attorney and judge of County
Civil Court, died Nov. 25. He was past presi-
dent of the Spartanburg County Bar Associa-
tion, and he was a member of the American
Bar and Trial Lawyer Associations.

WILLIAM PAYNE KNIGHT, former president and
chairman of the board of the First National
Bank of Nicholasville, Ky., died Aug. 4.
Knight was also a member of the Nicholas-
ville Board of Education.

1939

GEORGE A. FENNER, treasurer of the Citizen’s
Scholarship Foundation of Southwick, Inc.,
died Dec. 2 in Southwick, Mass. Fenner was
serving a second three-year term as founda-
tion treasurer. He was employed by Fleet-
wood Chemical Co. of Holyoke as an account-
ant and office manager.

EDMUND RALPH WIEGANDT, a long-time resj-
dent and retail coal dealer from Lansing,
Mich., died Oct. 22. During World War II,
Wiegandt was a special agent in the Counter.
intelligence Corps in the European Theater.

JAMEs GIBSON LAMB, JR., a member of the in-
vestment firm of Kidder, Peabody, & Co. of
Philadelphia, died Dec. 5.

VARSITY BASEBALL

Mar. 20—Long Island (2) (1 p.m.)................ Home
Mar. 21—St. Francis (2) (1 p.m.).................. Home
Mar. 25-VMI ( pm... Home
Mar. 26-—Oneonta (4 pm)... Home
Mar. 29-Lynchours (3 pm... Home
Apr. g southern Conn. 3 pm).......... Home
Apr 12-Rice@)................... Away
Apr. 19 Houston... Away
Apr. 15-San jacinio |]. GC... Away
Apr. 21—Hampden-Sydney (9 p.m.)............ Home
Apr. 22-Virginia (9 p.m... Home
Apr 27 -Lynchbure Away
Apr. 20-Hampden-Sydney ....................... Away
May 2—Old Dominion (2) (1 p.m.)............ Home
May 6-8—CAC Tournament.................... St. Louis
May 11 Bridgewater (2)...................... Away
May 15—Madison (2) (1 p.m.)...................- Home
VARSITY TENNIS
Nae eo- VMI... Away
May. 20-—Dartmouth Home
Mar 27 -lowson St. Home
ADDY 10-Duke Away
Apr. 12—Emory University...................... Away
Appl, 12-RoOUinsS 9 Away
Apr. 14—Fla. Presbyterian............................. Away
Apr. 21-Hampden-Sydney oo. cc Home
Apr. 22-VM1 ie Home
Apr. 23-Lynchbure Away
Apr. 24-Old Dominion |... .. Away
Apr. 25—William and Mary........................... Away
Apr. 28 -Virginia...0 Hot Springs
Apr. 30-VPl ........ Home
May 1—Va. Commonwealth.......00...0cccccee: Home
May 4-—-Hampden-Sydney ...................0..... Away
May 7-8—CAC Tournament............0..0. St. Louis
May 10-LOwson $0.0 Away
May 11-Emory arid Henry... Home

VARSITY LACROSSE

Mar. 20—Randolph-Macon (2 p.m.)............ Home
Mar. 22—English All-Stars (3:30 p.m.)........ Home
Mar. 24—Dartmouth (3:30 p.m.).............6. Home
Mar. 27—East Carolina (10 a.m.).........0..... Home
Apr. 14 Wesleyan (3 p.m.)..................... Away
Apr. 15—Connecticut (3 p.m.)........eceeee Away
Apr. 17 Navy @ pi.) ........... Away
Apr. 24—Washington Col. (2 p.m.).............Away
Apr, 28—Baltimore (9 p.m.)......................... Away
May 1—North Carolina (2 p.m.)............... Away
May 5—Md.-Balt. Cty. (3 p.m.).................... Away
May 8—Baltimore Loyola (2 p.m.).............. Home
May 12-—Virginia (9:30 p.m.)....................,. Away
May 15—Duke (2 p.m.)............................... ome
VARSITY TRACK

Mar. 23—Bridgewater (9 p.m.).................. Home
Mar. 25—Wake Forest (9 p.m.).................... Home
Apr. 22—Lynchburg (3:30 p.m.)................6 Away
Apr. 27—Va. State Meet

Apr. 28—Hampden-Sydney (3:30 p.m.)........ Home
May 1—Va. Small Col. Meet.................. Roanoke
May 4-—Vireinia (9 p.m.)......0....0.....,. Away
May 70 CAC Meet... St. Louis
May 11—E. Mennonite (3:30 p.m.)......... .... Lome

VARSITY GOLF

Apr. 12-0uke Away
Apr. 13—North Carolina occ cic Away
Apr 14-N. G. State... Away
Apr. 21-Old Dominion... Home
Apr. 26--Va, State Meet... Hot Springs
Apr. 20-lLynchbure |... Home
May 3-Bridgewater ..............0........ seeeeee AWAY
May 7-8—CAC MEEl..........cccccccssecccereensss St. Louis
May 12—Madison ........,...e Home
May 14-—-VITSINIA 2. Home

WASHINGTON & LEE ALUMNUS

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 THE MCCORMICK LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIV
LEXINGTON VA
24450

 

AGAIN AVAILABLE

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Commemorative Plates
(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes
Price $39.00 per set which includes shipping charges

Available in blue color only

Send order and check to:

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

