.¢ the alumni magazine of washington and lee university APRIL 1973

Z [
A

/

ichti W. Davis 100th Anniversary A New Biography The Complete Man William H. Harbaugh Non Incautus Futuri Robert S. Ke
’eryelope Gilliatt Carolyn Kizer Denise Levertov Mary McCarthy Gail Dudley Non Incautus Futuri Contact 1973 Frank Mankie
awyer New Trustees Non Incautus Futuri Thomas D. Anderson J. Alvin Philpott Non Incautus Futuri Glasgow Endowment S:
»yédan James Dickey Dick Gregory Non Incautus Futuri Campus News New Law School Building Contract Development Prog
fe Woman of Letters in the Modern World Barbara Deming Penelope Gilliatt Carolyn Kizer Denise Levertov Mary McCarthy C
teport John M. Stemmons 36 by *76 Non Incautus Futuri Washington and Lee Commerce Review Black Culture Week New St
ny Incautus Futuri Contact 1973 Frank Mankiewicz Betty Friedan James Dickey Dick Gregory Non Incautus Futuri Campus
Yfficers Coeducation Yes Non Incautus Futuri Winter Athletics Wrestling Swimming Basketball John E. Hughes Non Incautus |]
School Building Contract Development Program Progress Report John M. Stemmons 36 by °76 Non Incautus Futuri Washingto
ws Lynchburg Citation Frances and Sydney Lewis Chapter Correspondents Class Notes Washington and Lee Chair Commenc
*ommerce Review Black Culture Week New Student Body Officers Coeducation Yes Non Incautus Futuri Winter Athletics Wre
jh Memoriam Washington and Lee Ice Buckets and Trays Non Incautus Futuri Now Is The Time For All Good Men To Come T
asketball John E. Hughes Non Incautus Futuri Chapter News Lynchburg Citation Frances and Sydney Lewis Chapter Corresp:
Vashington and Lee University John W. Davis 100th Anniversary A New Biography The Complete Man William H. Harbaugh N
\:4es Washington and Lee Chair Commencement Schedule In Memoriam Washington and Lee Ice Buckets and Trays Non Inca
-Wuri Robert S. Keefe Country Lawyer Non Incautus Futuri New Trustees Thomas D. Anderson J. Alvin Philpott Non Incautt
‘ow Is The Time For All Good Men To Come To The Aid Of Washington And Lee University John W. Davis 100th Anniversar,
lasgow Endowment Symposium The Woman of Letters in the Modern World Barbara Deming Penelope Gilliatt Carolyn Kizer
ee The Complete Man William H. Harbaugh Non Incautus Futuri Robert S. Keefe Country Lawyer New Trustees Non I
ary McCarthy Gail Dudley Non Incautus Futuri Contact 1973 Frank Mankiewicz Betty Friedan James Dickey Dick Gregory |
{Hiomas D. Anderson J. Alvin Philpott Non Incautus Futuri Glasgow Endowment Symposium The Woman of Letters in the Mo
\turi Campus News New Law School Building Contract Development Program Progress Report John M. Stemmons 36 by ’76
Fikbara Deming Penelope Gilliatt Carolyn Kizer Denise Levertov Mary McCarthy Gail Dudley Non Incautus Futuri Contact 19’
hturi Washington and Lee Commerce Review Black Culture Week New Student Body Officers Coeducation Yes Non Incautus
dankiewicz Betty Friedan James Dickey Dick Gregory Non Incautus Futuri Campus News New Law School Building Contract
4thletics Wrestling Swimming Basketball John E. Hughes Non Incautus Futuri Chapter News Lynchburg Citation Frances and |
, ogram Progress Report John M. Stemmons 36 by ’76 Non Incautus Futuri Washington and Lee Commerce Review Black Cul
_apter Correspondents Class Notes Washington and Lee Chair Commencement Schedule In Memoriam Washington and Lee Ic
“ew Student Body Officers Coeducation Yes Non Incautus Futuri Winter Athletics Wrestling Swimming Basketball John E. Hu
‘rays Non Incautus Futuri Now Is The Time For All Good Men To Come To The Aid Of Washington And Lee University John
~vautus Futuri Chapter News Lynchburg Citation Frances and Sydney Lewis Chapter Correspondents Class Notes Washington
aniversary A New Biography The Complete Man William H. Harbaugh Non Incautus Futuri Robert S. Keefe Country Lawyer
_ mmencement Schedule In Memoriam Washington and Lee Ice Buckets and Trays Non Incautus Futuri Now Is The Time For
Wweuri New Trustees Thomas D. Anderson J. Alvin Philpott Non Incautus Futuri Glasgow Endowment Symposium The Womat
9 Come To The Aid Of Washington and Lee University John W. Davis 100th Anniversary A New Biography The Complete Mz
‘ne Modern World Barbara Deming Penelope Gilliatt Carolyn Kizer Denise Levertov Mary McCarthy Gail Dudley Non Incautus
" trbaugh Non Incautus Futuri Robert S. Keefe Country Lawyer Non Incautus Futuri New Trustees Thomas D. Anderson J. A
_273 Frank Mankiewicz Betty Friedan James Dickey Dick Gregory Non Incautus Futuri Campus News New Law School Build
| ‘on Incautus Futuri Glasgow Endowment Symposium The Woman of Letters in the Modern World Barbara Deming Penelope '
¢velopnient Program Progress Report John M. Stemmons 36 by *76 Non Incautus Futuri Washington and Lee Commerce Rev
KG er Denise Levertov Mary McCarthy Gail Dudley Non Incautus Futuri Contact 1973 Frank Mankiewicz Betty Friedan James
ek New Student Body Officers Coeducation Yes Non Incautus Futuri Winter Athletics Wrestling Swimming Basketball John

Ry
|

 
 
  
   
    
 

 

pesory Non Incautus Futuri Campus News New Law School Building Contract Development Program Progress Report John N

Acautus Futuri Chapter News Lynchburg Citation Frances and Sydney Lewis Chapter Correspondents Class Notes Washington
"by ’76 Non Incautus Futuri Washington and Lee Commerce Review Black Culture Week New Student Body Officers Coedu
ymmencement Schedule In Memoriam Washington and Lee Ice Buckets and Trays Non Incautus Futuri Now Is The Time Fo
von Incautus Futuri Winter Athletics Wrestling Swimming Basketball John E. Hughes Non Incautus Futuri Chapter News Lync
' Come To The Aid Of Washington And Lee University John W. Davis 100th Anniversary A New Biography The Complete M

gt Oe te ee Tne Ob nn tan Onwenanandanta Cane Matac Wachinatan andl aa Chair Cammencement Schedule In Memo:

 

 

 

Mh

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 48, Number 3, April 1973

William €. Washburn 740.000.000.000... ce eect Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman...................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68................0.cccceeees Associate Editor
Mrs, Jopoe Cartets 00.0000 a, Editorial Assistant
Robert .LOchhart..i icici. ccd redid agalaaetieae Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

John W. Davis oo... ccc iene etree ]
Country Lawyer ooo... eee 4
Two New Trustees ........0...20000 ieee 5
Glasgow Symposium ............0. ce 6
Contact 1973 o....cccccccc cece cece tte teenieen 10
Campus News... cc etter 13
Development Progress Report «0.0.0.0... 15
Winter Sports Roundup ........0......c cee 23
Chapter News 0.0... eerie 25
Class Notes ....0.0cccccccceccetecetee eect terettteseeten 27
In Memoriam o..........00ccccccc cette ve BQ

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

A. CHRISTIAN ComMPpTON, ’50, Richmond, Va.
President

Upton BEALL, 51, Tyler, ‘Texas
Vice President

T. Hat Crarkg, ’38, Washington, D.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WasHsurn, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

RicuHarp D. HAYNES, ’58, Dallas, ‘Texas
Wituiam H. Hitter, ’38, Chicago, Ill.
VERNON W. HOLLEMAN, JR., 58, Washington, D.C.
C. Royce House, III, 59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
Tueopore M. Kerr, ’57, Midland, ‘Texas
J. PETER G. MUHLENBERG, 50, Wyomissing, Pa.
J. Atvin Puitrott, 45, Lexington, N.C.
BEAUREGARD A. REDMOND, ’55, New Orleans, La.
EVERETT TUCKER, JR., ’34, Little Rock, Ark.

q

On the cover: Our cover is a kind of typist’s free
association on the contents of this magazine and
the people who contributed to it. The red, white,
and blue presentation symbolizes Washington and
Lee’s participation in the American Bicentennial
to be celebrated in 1976, the year in which the Uni-
versity hopes to complete the first phase of its de-
cade-long Development Program. For a report on
the first year’s effort of that program, see Page 15.

 

 

by William H. Harbaugh

W&L Trustee John W. Davis:
a view from a new biography

~—

This is the 100th anniversary of the birth of
John W. Davis, who was one of Washington and Lee’s
most illustrious and dedicated alumni and perhaps
the most distinguished American lawyer of his time.
He was born on April 13, 1873, in Clarksburg, W.Va.

William H. Harbaugh, professor of history at the
University of Virginia, has gust completed a new
biography, Lawyer’s Lawyer: The Life of John W.
Davis, to be published in November by Oxford Uni-
versity Press. This article is excerpted from “The
Complete Man,” a chapter in that biography, and ts
printed here by permission.

Copyright © 1973 by Oxford University Press.

For 27 years Davis’ conviction, as expressed to the
president of Washington and Lee at the end of World
War II, that ‘“‘we can afford to stick to ‘whatever
things are true’ a long time yet,” governed his conduct
as a member of his Alma Mater’s Board of ‘Trustees.
One of those ‘things’ was academic freedom. A first,
and inconclusive, test arose back in 1926 when a
bright young professor of criminal law gave his class a
breezily phrased examination on five hypothetical cases
involving sexual or unusually gruesome incidents.
Appalled by such “rot,” one of the resident ‘Trustees
sent Davis a copy of the examination. “This strikes me
as the Harvard method carried to its ultimate limit,”
Davis replied. “I would be glad to have any further
samples.” Davis was detained in New York when the
Board voted to give the professor a terminal contract
that June. With his usual kindliness, however, he
recommended the professor for a position in the
National City Bank the following year.

Five years later the desire of a fellow Board mem-
ber to endow a chair of Bible with $25,000 produced a
considerably more awkward situation. ‘The prospective
donor stipulated that the occupant must “hold to,
acknowledge, teach and inculcate the Christian religion
as being above all others the true religion,” and that
he be “conservative, and not liberal or radical” in his
interpretation of the Holy Scriptures. He further stipu-
lated that the occupant must be removed if he “teach
contrary” to those views. Davis agreed with the Presi-
dent of the University, Francis P. Gaines, that the

April 1973

 

 

John W. Davis

gift had to be refused, and he drew up a statement of
principles couched in jurisdictional terms. ‘he Board’s
absolute discretion to remove a professor, he asserted,
should not be compromised; no donor of a chair had
the right ‘‘to limit the academic freedom of the oc-
cupant either as to the substance, the scope, or the
matter of his teaching.”

How far Davis would have defended freedom as
an absolute right of students and faculty is conjectural,
for Washington and Lee never produced a hard case.
Assuredly, he fretted over reports of rampant New
Dealism on campus. He wrote that he was particularly
shocked to hear that some members of the law faculty
approved Roosevelt’s court-packing scheme, and he
questioned whether a ‘Trustee could do his duty
sitting in remote seclusion. In the only specific matter

John W. Davis

 

that came before him, however, he stood firmly for
freedom.

In March, 1935, one of Davis’ classmates reported
that Secretary of Agriculture Henry A. Wallace and
Lucy Mason, an intimate of Secretary of Labor Frances
Perkins, had been invited to speak at Washington and
Lee; also that permission had been granted interested
students to form a chapter of the left-wing League of
Industrial Democracy. ‘““Ye Gods—in the name of...
the conservative University that we knew,” wrote the
classmate, “I protest.’”” Meanwhile, Newton D. Baker,
one of Davis’ fellow Trustees, dismissed the com-
plaint with the remark that the real trouble was
‘‘professors who lack manners and intellectual humility
rather than... professors who have dangerous notions.”

Before Davis could reply to the original protest,
President Gaines reported that Miss Mason’s speech
had been entirely innocuous and that the invitation
to Wallace had been extended at the instance of Davis’
old friend, Edward A. O’ Neal, president of the
American Farm Bureau and an 1898 graduate of the
University. He added that the League of Industrial
Democracy had chapters on 124 other campuses and
that a ban would have brought unfavorable pub-
licity. “We advised these young men that we would
not tolerate... any student propaganda subversive
to our basic forms of government. ... Within these
restrictions the students have a right, we feel, to discuss
any political theories.”

Davis endorsed Gaines’ position emphatically.
“Firm as I am in my own individualistic convictions,”
he wrote the classmate who had raised the issue, “I do
not believe in tying down the safety valve. Let these
boys alone and let them listen to nonsense and they
will know it when they see it.”” He appended a quota-
tion from Jefferson:

... truth is great and will prevail if she is left to herself;

that she is the proper and sufficient antagonist to error,

and has nothing to fear from the conflict unless by

human interposition disarmed of her natural weapons,
free argument and debate; errors ceasing to be dangerous
when it is permitted freely to contradict them.

‘That same year, 1937, brought a test of an entirely
different kind of principle—federal aid to private institu-

2

 

 

Francis P. Gaines ... Davis called him “Boss.”

tions. Following destruction of the law building and
library by fire in 1934, Gaines and a majority of the
Board decided to apply for a PWA grant. The de-
cision saddened and frustrated Davis. “I do not know
of any theory which justifies the Federal Government -
in thus dispersing money... ,” he wrote Gaines. “I
have pretty distinct ideas as to the things the Federal
Government can and cannot do within its constitu-
tional powers. For much of this I have my training at
Washington & Lee to thank. ... Believing as I do...
how can I in conscience . . . vote for its acceptance?” ‘
That was the only important difference Davis and
Gaines had in 17 years of close association.
Davis believed strongly and repeatedly proposed that
the terms of Board membetrs be limited to 10 years.
This had been a pet project of Gaines’ predecessor, Dr.
Henry Louis Smith, a crusty, dominant man who had
been thwarted for years by what he called the “ultra-
conservatism and ... childish vanity” of even the better
Board members. Smith’s special burden was the provin-
cialism of local ‘Trustees:
The town of Lexington simply cannot generate or build
up suitable men for such a task. It is too brimful of and
dominated by village views and sects and groups and
standards of judgment. An institution like W. and L.
is and should be inter-church, inter-state, inter-party, and
all-american. A tiny ultra-patriotic group of little-business,
home-grown, home-loyal, utterly secretarian villagers can
neither visualize, long-for, manage, or build up a 20th
century inter-state institution. They will instinctively .
feel hostile toward plans and people that are different from
OURS and US.
Davis was understanding, though he never criticized
the Lexington group so directly. Instead, he continued
to push for a ten-year term.
Actually, Davis had been responsible for Gaines’
appointment. On President Smith's retirement in 1930,
Davis had insisted that they bring in a broad-gauged
man to succeed him; and, in a rare exercise of power,
he had swung the board behind Gaines, then president
of Wake Forest. A cultured gentleman, polished orator,
and idolator of Robert E. Lee, Gaines had turned
down the presidency of the University of Minnesota
shortly before going to Washington and Lee. Davis

Wel

                          
 
  
  

  
     

  
   
   
   

  

 

 

 

 
  

 
  

 

 

a
" _ es .
re
Bote

at

>

— -

.

=

-
a -
i
a
-
oe
- oe
.
:
an
.
oe
°
a
-
*

 

 

 

 

_

 

 

 

being still “a country lawyer,
practicing — in New York—
which is all I am and all I
ever wish to be.”

A country lawyer, to be_
sure. For 17 years, after
graduation from Washington
and Lee’s ‘School of Law in
1892, he rode circuit over all
the eastern counties of ‘West
Virginia. His partner was his
father, a graduate of Jud;
at Me, Ss ee

 

 

 
   
    
   
     
 
 
 

_ The post-war years in Lon-
don were epee easy ones, and

 

 

diplomatic s service required of

even a “country” lawyer was"

  

 

 

 

     
   
   
   
    

fit any single mold or

 

 

   

| knowledge went, no stranger
coming to England had ever
so quickly and completely
captured all hearts as John
W. Davis... .”

And in 1922 the highest
honor in his colleagues’ power
_to confer: the presidency of
the American Bar Association.
“It would have been a re-
proach upon our organization
if we had not made him our
president,” the ABA J ournal
said in its 1955 obituary.)

In 1924, as every Washing-
‘ton and Lee man knows who
| has ever participated in a

| For "30 years. “after | ‘that
tumultuous: decade of intense
_ public service, Davis confined
himself principally to the
practice of law—the ‘ ‘country
lawyer,” displaced onto Wall
Street. He remained proud
of the fact that he never
specialized and that—despite
staunch political _conserva-
| tism—his legal “causes” never

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

of selective conscientious be

 

jection and in favor of the
old “separate but

tems. His conviction that
‘Alger Hiss, his friend and
colleague, could not possibly
have betrayed the nation was
no less strong than his con-_
viction that Franklin D. Roo-
sevelt’s politics were, simply,
abominable.

“I have never thought of
myself as in any sense an
indurated Tory,” he wrote to

 

 

 

 

his friend Francis Pendelton
Gaines in 1937. “On we: |

 

came to be,
- mained, extraordinarily close
friends. They were two of
only three men ever elected
to membership in the Daugh-
ters of the American Revolu-
tion (Bernard Baruch was the

third) and in private it amus-

ed Davis and Gaines” to a

equal”
doctrine in public school sys-.

and always “re-

c yciation). As
a Trustee he lobbied for al-
most 40 years in’ favor of
abolishing — malin ; trustee:

   

     

  

 

  
   

tennial observance. a id inau-
gurated the distinguished lec-
ture series named to honor
his revered Jaw teacher, John

 
 
   
 
   
  
  

 

 

 

 

f

 

} Anderson and Philpott

are new WA&L Trustees

A leading Houston, Tex., lawyer and
a North Carolina furniture manufactur-
ing executive have been elected to the
Board of Trustees of Washington and
Lee. They are Thomas D. Anderson of
Houston, a 1934 graduate, and J. Alvin
Philpott of Lexington, N.C., a 1947 gra-
duate. Their election came at the mid-
winter meeting of the Board, held in At-
lanta in February.

Anderson is a partner in the Hous-
ton law firm of Anderson, Brown, Orn &
Pressler and is president of The Boston
Co. of Texas, an investment counseling
service. Philpott is executive vice presi-
dent of Burlington House Furniture, a
division of Burlington Industries, and is
a director of the Southern Furniture
Manufacturers’ Association.

Anderson has long been active in
business and civic activities in Houston.
After graduation from Washington and
Lee, he joined a law firm in that city,
but in 1947 became vice president of the
‘Texas National Bank. In 1956, he became
president of the Texas Fund Manage-
ment Co, and later was senior vice presi-
dent and trust officer of Texas Com-
merce Bank. He returned to the practice
of law in 1965.

He is a director and past president
of the Museum of Fine Arts of Houston
and of the city’s Grand Opera Associa-
tion. He is also a board member of the
Episcopal Church Foundation, the Epis-
copal Diocese of Texas, and Lambuth
College, which awarded him an _ honor-
ary doctorate in 1967.

He and his wife Helen have one son,
John S. Anderson, a 1968 graduate of
Washington and Lee, and two daughters,
Mrs. J. David Wright of Houston and
Mrs. Richard C. Streeter of Washington,
D.C.

April 1973

 

Thomas D. Anderson

Philpott has been a member of the
Board of Directors of the Washington
and Lee Alumni Association since 1971.
He has been associated with Burlington
House, formerly United Furniture Co.,
since graduation from W&L. He too is ex-
tremely active in community affairs and
has been chairman of the Lexington
School Board, Lexington Hospital Board,
Red Cross, United Fund, Boy Scouts’
Council, and the Kiwanis Club.

One son, James A. Philpott, Jr., holds
his undergraduate and law degrees from
W&L, and another son, Benjamin G,
Philpott, is currently a junior at the
University. He and his wife Helen also
have a daughter, Mary Elizabeth, 14.
Philpott’s brother, Harry M. Philpott, is
a 1938 graduate of Washington and Lee
and is now president of Auburn Uni-
versity.

Both men will join the Board for-
mally when it meets in Lexington in
May. The University’s charter authorizes

 

 

J. Alvin Philpott

a maximum of 22 Trustees, and the elec-
tion of Anderson and Philpott bring the
number now serving to 21. The other
current Trustees are:

John Newton Thomas, Rector, of
Richmond; Robert E. R. Huntley, Prest-
dent of the University, of Lexington;
Joseph E. Birnie of Atlanta; James Ste-
wart Buxton of Memphis; Frank C.
Brooks of Baltimore; John L. Crist, Jr.,
of Charlotte, N.C.; E. Waller Dudley of
Alexandria, Va.; Thomas C. Frost, Jr.,,
of San Antonio; Joseph L. Lanier of
West Point, Ga.; Sydney Lewis of Rich-
mond; Joseph T. Lykes, Jr., of New
Orleans; Ross L. Malone of New York
City; E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr., of New-
ton, Pa.; The Hon. Lewis F. Powell, Jr.,
of Washington, D.C.; Isadore M. Scott
of Philadelphia; John M. Stemmons of
Dallas; Jack W, Warner of Tuscalossa,
Ala.; The Hon. John W. Warner of
Washington, D.C.; and Judge
Minor Wisdom of New Orleans.

John

by Gail Dudley

Of women and literature
and a changing society

Will the release of women from the domestic roles of
housewife and mother bring about significant social
change? Are there particular ways in which women can
work for the betterment of society?

Five prominent female writers were invited to the
Washington and Lee campus on March 7-9 to discuss
these and related questions. The three-day symposium,
sponsored by the University’s Glasgow Endowment Pro-
eram, featured panel discussions, prose and poetry read-
ings, and informal gatherings. Carolyn Kizer, poet,
teacher, and founder of the literary magazine
Poetry Northwest, served as panel moderator and organ-
izer. Other members of the group were poet Denise
Levertoy, essayist Barbara Deming, novelist Mary Mc
Carthy, and film critic Penelope Gilliatt.

“There is a danger for women, and therefore for
women as artists (women as writers included), of falling
into the trap of being expected to save the world,” Ms.
Levertov told students. ‘““The necessity to save the world
is a human necessity, and not one for which one gender
can, or should be responsible.”

Ms. Levertov, a native of England, now lives near
Boston. Her long activity in the anti-war movement has
influenced much of her recent poetry (Relearning the
Alphabet, To Stay Alive and Footprints). While at W&L,
she showed slides taken when she visited Hanoi in 1972.

It is Ms. Levertov’s belief that it is impossible for
the contemporary writer, as a sensitive human being, to
avoid being concerned with political issues and affairs.
The important thing about a poem is not whether it is
political or nonpolitical, she said, but whether it springs
from feeling or from opinion. She described the best
poems as those which come from feeling. Ms. Levertov’s

Gail Dudley is a senior
English major at Hollins
College. She is presently
working on a study of Eudora
Welty and the woman's
point of view in fiction.

Gail was an exchange stu-
dent at Washington and Lee
during the 1971-72 academic
year.

 

other volumes of poetry include The Sorrow Dance, O
Taste and See, The Jacob’s Ladder and With Eyes in
the Back of Our Heads.

Politically concerned women must avoid taking on
power within the existing structure, she said. If they do
so, she fears they will inherit all the familiar consequ-
ences—‘“ruthlessness, coldness, cynicism, and ulcers.”

“What men and women both must work at concur-
rently with changing the structures of society is the soul
work, the inner work, of the greater humanization of
themselves,” Ms. Levertov said. She spoke of the need
to nurture a sense of “communion and community”
among people.

According to. Ms. Deming, who has also been active
in the anti-war movement, the classification of certain
personal characteristics as either masculine or feminine
is a “fatal division’ that has hindered the development
of both the individual and society.

“The masculine has been defined pretty generally

 

THE GLASGOW ENDOWMENT PROGRAM

At his death in 1955, the late Arthur Graham Glas-
gow, a distinguished engineer and an honorary alumnus
of Washington and Lee, bequeathed to the University
a generous sum with the following recommendation for
its use:

... Such income is to be known as the “Arthur and

Margaret Glasgow Endowment in proud memory of

Francis Thomas Glasgow and namesakes.” It is hoped

that all such income may be used to promote the art of

expression by pen and tongue, including voice produc-
tion and delivery.

The program was inaugurated in the spring term
of the 1958-59 academic year, when Miss Katherine
Anne Porter, distinguished American short story writer
and novelist, took up residence at Washington and Lee
as the first Glasgow Visiting Professor.

Subsequent artists appearing at Washington and Lee
under the Glasgow program, some in terms of residence
and others for briefer visits, include John Ciardi, Merle
Miller, Edward Albee, Richard Eberhart, Robert Lo-
well, Howard Nemerov, William Humphrey, Robert
Penn Warren, Karl Shapiro, and James Dickey.

 

 

 

Wel

»

as self-assertion, and the womanly has been defined as
nurturing selves other than our own,” she explained.
“The human truth is that each and every one of us
born should both assert ourselves and live out active sym-
pathy for others trying to assert themselves.”

“To assign the two motions of the psyche to different
sexes has tended to split asunder these two motions,”
she continued. “It has brought us the world we have to-
day.”

Ms. Deming, who lives in Monticello, N.Y., is a for-
mer film analyst for the Library of Congress. In her
book, Running Away From Myself, she demonstrates
how the films of the ’40’s have contributed to the for-
mation of present male and female stereotypes. Her
other works include Revolution and Equilibrium, Pri-
son Notes, based on her arrest during a peace march, and
Wash Us and Comb Us, a collection of short stories.

The author voiced her hope for the evolution of a
“new eroticism,’ a spiritual and physical love among
all people. She also showed slides of her own trip to
Vietnam and observed that it is often at times of crisis
that she feels this closeness among people. An advocate
of nonviolence as a means of solving both politcial and
social problems, Ms. Deming 1s an outspoken member
of the War Resisters’ League and has written for their
anti-war magazine, WIN.

All of the panel members, with the exception of Ms.
McCarthy, viewed the women’s movement as a Catalyst
for social change. “I am absolutely incapable of seeing
the emancipatory role of women, more than one-half of
the population, as being able to change civilization,’’ she
said. “If there is this stereotyping, I find these figures
very pathetic. ‘They only show the very pathetic cases.
‘They do not represent any real power relationships.”

Ms. McCarthy, who is considered one of America’s
foremost novelists, now lives in Paris. Her best-known
titles include The Groves of Academe, The Company
She Keeps, The Group and Birds of America. She has
also written autobiography (Memoirs of a Catholic Girl-
hood), travel and art criticism (The Stones of Florence
and Venice Observed), literary essays and sharp com-
mentaries on American involvement in Southeast Asia
(Vietnam and Hanot).

According to Ms. McCarthy, achieving what is com-

April 1973

 

Barbara Deming, in student roundtable.

 

Glasgow Symposium

 

monly called “equality” for women might cause them to
lose some valuable characteristics. ‘The woman writer,
for instance, displays a certain vigor of style and concise-
ness that may speak of “a tidiness of mind, a neatness, a
spinsterly or housewifely quality that already belongs
to a past that women’s liberators are trying to expunge, ”
she said. “I value these traits and consider them almost
a mark of feminine superiority.”

In the past, women were spectators, rather than ac-
tors in the human drama, Ms. McCarthy continued. As
a result, certain feminine narrative modes emerged. She
cited the novel written as an exchange of letters and the
novel in diary form as examples. “Women have always
excelled in the art of dialogue,” she added. This may
also have something to do with their traditional roles as
watchers and listeners.

On the other hand, Ms. Gilliatt spoke of the “‘femi-
nine” position of onlooker as one that has hampered and
debilitated women. “Women who have wanted to take
action publicly have often had to do it as fifth colum-
nists, as saboteurs,” she said. ‘““Up to the very near past,
intelligent women have had to pretend not to have
brains—it might turn men off. I’m not really convinced
that the situation has changed all that much.”

Ms. Gilliatt, who was born in Great Britain, spends
half a year as film critic for The New Yorker. She is also
a short-story writer and has published two collections of
stories (Come Back If It Doesn’t Get Better and No-
body’s Business). Her screenplay for the movie Sunday
Bloody Sunday won the New York Film Critics’ Award
for the best film of 1971.

While working on the film, Ms. Gilliatt said, she had
problems communicating with the predominantly male
movie crew. In such a position it is difficult for a woman
to assert her authority, she explained.

“Some married career women in the past have been
so split by what is called their divided role that they
have committed suicide,” she said, mentioning the sui-
cide of writer Sylvia Plath. In Ms. Gilliatt’s estimation,
many career women have not developed an “objective,
self-chosen view of the world.”

“It is still difficult for women not to adopt disguises,”
she concluded. “I think women are aware of the danger
now, but they still fall into it.” She pointed to the fact

8

<A

 

Carolyn Kizer, Glasgow panel moderator.

 

Penelope Gilliatt, no disguises for her.

WeL

}
,

~~

 

 

that, in the past, many women writers and entertainers
adopted men’s names (“George” Eliot, for example, or
Judy Holliday’s best performance as “Billy” Dawn). ‘This
is, perhaps, one of the most common disguises for the
career woman, she said.

According to Ms. Kizer, those women who have made
the most valuable contributions to society are “women
who have known how to be their own friends.” She cited
Jane Austen, the Bronte sisters, and George Eliot as
women who became literary figures “because they trust-
ed and believed in themselves.”

Ms. Kizer, who is a poet, an editor and a critic, grew
up in the Northwest and is now on the faculty of the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She was
the first director for literary programs under the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts and has published three
volumes of poetry (Knock Upon Silence, Ungrateful
Garden and Midnight Was My Cry).

There are also male authors who have befriended
women, Ms. Kizer said. She read selections from Henry
James’ The Bostonians, a novel about the women’s

movement in the 1880's. “Most critics take it to be a
burlesque of the feminist movement,” she said. “What
he has done is to sketch out in an almost caricatured
form certain stock figures in the feminist movement.”
Although he laughs at the women (and, indeed, at all of
upper class Boston society), James also treats them with
sympathy and a kind of respect.

Ms. Kizer disagreed with Ms. McCarthy's argument
that it is not fair to judge the works of a great writer by
the way he or she treats women. An author must have a
certain respect for women as human beings to be able to
develop them as successful characters, she said. ‘This is
also true in a writer’s treatment of male characters, she
added.

The same “humanization,’ or breaking down of
barriers, that is called for in society may also be called
for in literature. At least, this is what all five women
seemed to be saying in their readings and in their a-
nalyses of the works of other authors. In the course of the
three-day discussion, some very real barriers may have
been tackled at W&L, as well.

 

Mary McCarthy, doubtful that women can change civilization.

April 1973

CONTACT 1973

Contact ’73, the
symposium, brought to the W&L cam-

student-sponsored

pus in late February and early March a
quartet of speakers who discussed top-
ics much on the minds of Americans to-
day—the government and the press, femi-
nism, reading and comment, and social
problems.

The speakers were Frank Mankie-
wicz, Betty Friedan, James Dickey, and
Dick Gregory.

A fifth speaker, L. Patrick Gray, III,
acting director of the FBI, was schedul-
ed to appear, but had to cancel his visit
because of confirmation hearings in
Washington on his appointment as per-
manent FBI director. He was to discuss
law enforcement and the role of citizen-
ship. The Contact Committee hoped to
arrange a later appearance by Gray.

Contact, which originated in 1964,
is sponsored by the Interfraternity Coun-
cil and the Student Body
Committee, with the assistance of faculty

Executive

members, parents, and others.

This year, WeL magazine again pre-
sents student-written summaries of the
remarks of Contact speakers. ‘The reports
were coordinated for the magazine by
Mark McMinn and Jim Beaty, co-chair-
men of the Contact Committee. McMinn
is a senior from Columbia, Tenn., a mem-
ber of ODK, and an independent major
in philosophy-psychology; Beaty is a jun-
ior from Memphis, Tenn., and a major
in philosophy.

FRANK MANKIEWICZ by Jay Denny
Contact ’73 opened with an appear-
ance by Frank Mankiewicz, a former re-
porter, lawyer, Peace Corps Official, press
secretary to the late Sen. Robert F. Ken-
nedy, and more recently the top politi-
cal adviser to Sen. George McGovern.

10

 

Frank Mankiewicz

Mankiewicz spoke on the roles of the
press and the government and mixed
criticism of both with his account of the
presidential election.

Mankiewicz feels there are three ma-
jor problems with press coverage of gov-
ernment. One is solely the problem of
television news, which he thinks is pre-
judiced because the executives of the
networks allow only 30 minutes for news
out of an 18-hour broadcast day. Man-
kiewicz says in this sense Vice President
Agnew is right when he says network
news is filtered to the public. Too little
time, coupled with the fact that people
aren’t reading as many newspapers today,
is a problem which he thinks leaves many
Americans uninformed of what is really
going on in the country. “If a camera
doesn’t see it, it doesn’t happen.”

According to Mankiewicz, a second

failing of the media is its unwillingness
to go beyond the everyday events, to see
if there might be more to the face value
of a story. Mankiewicz cited the labeling
of the two major campaigns last fall as
being the “old” and the “new” politics.
The media accepted these labels and
didn’t report what was actually happen-
ing on the campaign trail. Mankiewicz
says McGovern was doing the traditional
campaigning because he was constantly
in front of the people. He called this
“retail campaigning.” Nixon, by compari-
son, was seldom at rallies or press con-
ferences. Instead, he used surrogates. ‘This
is “new” politics, according to Mankie-
wicz.

The biggest press problem, and one
that is affecting the whole country, is its
“excessive reverence for the President,
regardless of party.”” Mankiewicz says it is
undeniable that the President of the
United States is the most powerful man
in the history of the world, but the fact
remains he is still an average American.
The President has enormous foreign and
domestic powers, but at home his every
whim is catered to and the result is that
the man often loses sight of who and
what he is. He said Presidents Eisen-
hower, Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon en-
joyed this esteem and their coverage in
the press reflected this attitude of awe
and reverence. Mankiewicz charged that
the press has paid scant attention to al-
legations of corruption in this admini-
stration.

Before speaking on the Contact pro-
participated in a
panel on “Freedom of Information: The
Public’s Right to Know.” The discussion

gram, Mankiewicz

was sponsored by the journalism depart-
ment and the student chapter of Sigma
Delta Chi, a national journalism society.

WeL

 

 

BETTY FRIEDAN by Pat Hinely

James Dickey may have been the most
impressive of Contact ’73’s guests, but
Betty Friedan was the most relevant to
W&L for 1973’s changing times.

The author of The Feminine Mystt-
que started her talk to an overflow audi-
ence in Lee Chapel by giving a short his-
tory of the women’s movement which be-
gan in the 1960’s. Mrs. Friedan said the
first goal of the movement is for women
to realize that they are human beings be-
fore they are wives and mothers. The
main problem in doing this in America,
she said, is that the world outside the
home is structured for men, while only
the home itself is structured for women.

After discounting some popular mis-
conceptions about the women’s move-
ment, she put forward its primary na-
ture, which is not a battle between the
sexes per se, but rather a shift toward
“human liberation from the obselete sex
roles—the masculine mystique and the
feminine mystique—that have locked us
in mutual torment.”

She characterizes American society as
one in which sex roles are highly polariz-
ed and cited various studies by social
scientists in all disciplines which have
shown that such an arrangement makes
sex an obsession and breeds violence.

Mrs. Friedan was aware of the im-
pending referendum on coeducation at
W&L and addressed herself to things
closer to home for W&L students: “When
you live in an obsolete situation that is
perpetrating on you the machismo and
defensive, you know, because if you are
trying to live up to that definition of
masculinity in the jock atmosphere of
this kind of situation, the more inadequ-
ate it makes you feel—so unnecessarily
vulnerable, lonely, and inadequate, the

April 1973

+ a iy, 4

Betty Friedan evokes a few male smiles.

more machismo you’re going to have to
take on to defend against it, and the
more you’re going to get muscle-bound,
psychologically if not literally, and you
are going to be as ill-equipped as a
dinosaur for the changing world that we
have to live in.”

As a senior who has spent four years
at W&L and has recognized many of its
strong points and shortcomings, I can
only agree with Mrs. Friedan in saying
that the restructuring of our artificial
“Man’s World,” within both the society
and our University, is indeed inevitable.

Mrs.
probably be

Friedan also said that it will

‘a pretty joyful restructur-
ing.” I hope so.

JAMES DICKEY by Jim Overton
James Dickey made a friend on the
W&L campus when he came for this
year’s Contact program. After a “coffee
and conversation” session at the Book-
store, he browsed among the wares, and
to Bookstore manager Betty Munger’s
delight he purchased over $150 worth of
books. Not in keeping with his Georgia
cracker manners, he chose topics from
Zen Buddhism to thermodynamics and

 

praised Mrs. Munger for keeping the
“best little bookstore in the South.”
Dickey left quite an impression on

the W&L community not only with his
recognized genius as a writer, poet, and
orator, but also with his genuine friendli-
ness, joviality, and good humor. Sport-
ing a distinguished-looking flat-brimmed
hat (a recent gift of actor Burt Reynolds)
he meandered his way from the Book-
store to the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fra-
ternity house for a reception and dinner,
then to Lee Chapel where he delighted
the packed house with readings and
comments from his poetry and his best-
selling novel, Deliverance. (The movie
Deliverance was showing in Lexington at
the time and Dickey found time to see
it again.)

James Dickey was educated at Van-
derbilt and served in the Air Force in
World War II. He began a successful
career in advertising, but his rapidly
growing reputation as a poet led him to
abandon his business career and devote
his full time to writing. He has been a
consultant in poetry to the Library of
Congress and poet-in-residence at Reed
College. He has published five volumes

Il

Contact ’73

 

of poetry and the novel, Deliverance,
for which he also wrote the screenplay
and played the part of the sheriff in the
film version. He won the National Book
Award in Poetry for Buckdancer’s Choice
in 1966. His recent collections of poems
include The Eyebeaters, Blood, Victory,
Madness, and Buckhead and Mercy. He
is currently writer-in-residence at the
University of South Carolina.

DICK GREGORY by Gary Avery

Dick Gregory, author, comedian, peace
activist, and social critic, arrived two and
a half hours late for his Contact speech
in Doremus Gymnasium. (Inclement
weather grounded his plane flight, and
he had to come by bus from Bristol, Va.)
But instead of drifting away, the crowd
grew during the long wait. Warm ap-
plause greeted his arrival. And when he
finished speaking about two hours later
(about 1 a.m.), he was given a standing
ovation.

Gregory approached the _ podium,
acknowledging the cheers with ‘‘peace
signs.” Mark McMinn, Contact co-chair-
man, fell into the spirit of things, threw
away his prepared introduction, and said:
“You've waited long enough. I will not
detain you further. I simply give you
Mr. Dick Gregory.”

Gregory's speech dealt mainly with
many of the social problems confronting
the nation. He also credited the young
people of America, not the “people in
Washington,” with bringing about the
“winding down” of U. S. involvement in
Vietnam. He indicated, however, that he
does not consider the war “ended.”

Gregory was a small figure upon the
stage. He had been fasting for two years
in protest against the war. His weight
had dropped from a high of 280 pounds

12

 

addresses late-night crowd in the gym.

to a low of 98 pounds, and he weighed
about 105 when he visited W&L. His diet
contained no solids, but consisted mainly
of orange juice and occasionally grape
juice.

He said he would continue to fast
until all prisoners of war and missing
in action on both sides had been releas-
ed or accounted for. But he quipped that
once this had been accomplished he
would not fast again “even if they were
fighting in my house.”

Gregory ended his talk by demanding
social change for the entire society. He
called for the removal of “have-nots”
from a society which has so many ex-
tremely wealthy “haves.” But he warned
his audience that violence is not the an-
swer to the nation’s problems. If it were,
he said, “a gun would be as hard to get
in the black ghetto as a good job.”

 

James Dickey (above) is at home in the WeL

    

OS tigen

Bookstore. Dick Gregory (below)

The crowd appeared to be moved by
Gregory’s impassioned pleas for social
justice. At the end, they cheered loudly
and tried to get near him as he left the
gymnasium as if to say: “We would have
waited all night, Dick.”

CONTRIBUTORS

Jay Denny—senior from Danville, Va.,
majoring in journalism, student man-
ager of Radio Station WLUR.

Pat
Fla., majoring in journalism, ODK, and
editor of the 1972-73 Calyx.

Jim Overton—sophomore from Jackson-
ville, Fla., member of the Student Body

Hinely—senior from Jacksonville,

Executive Committee.

Gary Avery—junior from Atlanta, ma-
joring in history, member of the Student
Recruitment Committee, and the Stu-
dent Association for Black Unity.

WeL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Be

 

BS SO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
  
  

St ly endowed ‘honor, scholarships
will be awa: ded to the .
of the participants. The :

 
 

 

 

    

ees

     

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 

final issue of the Report for the year.
| Plaques and certificates will be delivered
to”

CG | ‘Holland, then public. relations direc-
t tor at the | University. Holland, a 1963

  

 

 

throughout the nation. In return, each
participating school sends its newspaper
and magazine to the Report. | -
publication is screened by the
editorial staff of the Report, and out-

anding articles are selected to be
printed in future issues of the Ret
which is published six times ea
year. In this way, the Report
a timely exchange ©
editors to see what topics and ‘issues are

ntly of interest to the

 

 

   

 

  
  
  

 

  

 

 

  

 
 

 

schools in time for pre
graduation or at year-end
The Washington and Lee Education

 

, ntation at

 
 
    
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

(Continued on Page 19)

  

WeL

 

 

 

         

| eek 7

} LUT
ee cy
hae et ST

 

 

Dear Alumni and Friends:

On behalf of the Board of Trustees of Washington
and Lee University, I am happy to present this report
of our first year’s activity with regard to the
Development Program announced on Washington's
Birthday, Feb. 22, 1972.

You will recall that at that time the ‘Trustees
announced a $56,000,000 program to be accomplished
during the decade of the 1970's, comprising the most
comprehensive development objectives in the Univer-
sity’s history. The first phase of the effort calls for
gift support of $36,000,000 by the time of the 200th
Anniversary of American Independence in 1976. An
outline of the first-phase objectives appears on Page 2
of this report.

At the Feb. 22nd announcement, Dr. John Newton
Thomas, Rector of the Board of Trustees, President
Huntley and I were able to report that $9,258,000
had already been committed toward objectives of the
program. This amount included commitments from all
19 members of the Board of ‘Trustees.

On March 16, 1972, Washington and Lee received
the largest gift in its history from Frances and Sydney
Lewis in the form of a $9,000,000 grant that assured
the construction of a new Law School Building and
provided the beginning endowment for a Law Center.
As you know, Washington and Lee’s new law building
will be named Lewis Hall and the Law Center
will be known as the Frances Lewis Law Center.

Since the announcement of the Development
Program, the Achievement Council, whose members are
listed on Page 3 of this report, has been fully formed,
consisting of Trustees, alumni, parents, and friends.
‘The Council has been able to make initial progress
in successfully seeking large gifts from certain alumni,
parents, friends, foundations, and corporations.

During this past year, Washington and Lee has had
a most encouraging response to its Alumni Fund and
Parents’ Fund, which form the very heart of the
Development Program. Also plans have gone forward
for construction of the Lewis Law Center, the Uni-
versity library, and the expanded campus.

I report these latter activities to you to assure
you that sound institutional planning for the Uni-
versity’s future continues as a daily process.

 

PROGRESS

 

REPORT

 

 

John M. Stemmons

All that I have said above is only a prelude to-
announcing the good news that on this first anniversary
of our Development Program, $21,059,097 or 58.5%
of our $36,000,000 first-phase goal has been com-
mitted. I know that you join me in expressing profound
gratitude to the donors who have brought us so
successfully through the first year in this unprecedented
effort for Washington and Lee.

To date we have been fortunate beyond our expecta-
tions. This is, however, a mixed blessing. It could
cause us to become complacent. It could cause us to
assume that the remaining $15,000,000 will come auto-
matically. Of course, it will not. The hard job lies ahead,
and it is to this job, on this first anniversary, that the
entire Washington and Lee family must recommit itself.

When I spoke at the announcement of the program
in 1972, I said then, and I say again: “We have a tall
hill to climb, but we are going to climb that hill!”

a,

JouN M. STEMMONS
Chairman
Washington and Lee Achievement Council

 

PRIORITIES
AND GOALS

 

 

 

On Feb. 22, 1972, the Board of ‘Trustees of Wash- The first phase of the program is to seek $36,000,000
ington and Lee University announced a $56,000,000 _by 1976. Specific priority items included in the 1976 ob-
Development Program for accomplishment by 1979. jective and progress toward meeting them are as follows:

 

Priority Items

Objective

Commitments % of Goal
as of Feb. 1973

 

CURRENT GIFTS: in support of annual educational and gen-
eral budgets, both undergraduate and law, through June 30,
1976

$ 3,500,000

$ 2,029,097 60

 

ENDOWMENT: funds for professorships, aaa. library
acquisitions, and other basic requirements in both the undergra-
duate schools and in the Law School

12,000,000

4,339,739 ee

 

SPECIAL ENDOWMENT: to begin support of new activities
of the Law Center

2,000,000

 

GYMNASIUM: addition eciplive the original usable fo space
including among other items a new basketball arena, swimming
pool, handball, and squash courts, dressing and exercise rooms

3,250,000

2,000,000 —S—-100

1,299,306 39.9

 

LAW SCHOOL BUILDING: designed to ‘accommodate the in-
structional, study, research, library, and student service require-
ments of 350 students, 20 professors, and the associated Law
Center activities.

7,000,000

7,104,215 100

 

LIBRARY BUILDING: to replace the present constricted and

obsolete facility (constructed 1908), providing resources needed

to serve the new curriculum with independent study emphasis,

space for doubling book holdings in 20 years, and a favorable

environment for learning

Na

5,250,000

1,831,038 34.9

 

HOUSING: upperclass dormitory accommodations and apart-
ments for married students

1,000,000

 

~CAMPUS EXPANSION: development of unimproved property
adjoining the present campus to serve as the site of the Law
Center, upperclass and married student housing, athletic fields,
and other facilities |

~ 1,500,000

 

RESIRE AION: the portion of the existing campus, now de-

-clared a National Historic Landmark, including detailed res-
toration of four pre-Civil War faculty residences and the “Colon-
nade” facade of the University’s main group of academic build-
ings :

500,000

16,969 3

 

Undesignated and early Phase II commitments

2,438,733

 

 

PHASE I—TO BE ACCOMPLISHED BY 1976:

$36,000,000

$21,059,097 58.5

 

 

ore ee ee

alas

¢

 

¥
% 5
,
a
a 4

ACHIEVEMENT

COUNCIL

 

Committee

Trustee
Chairmen & Partners

Vice Chairmen

Amount Raised
as of Feb. 1973 —

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Current Support Chairman: James H. Bierer $2,029,097
- Committee Sydney Lewis Edwin J. Foltz
’ : Robert A. Hemm
Alumni Chairman: Thomas H. Broadus $4,442,713
Committee Jack W. Warner Charles F. Clarke, Jr. Cae
_ Partners: Rodolph B. Davenport, II
: Frank C. Brooks George R. Jones |
f Thomas C. Frost, Jr. _ Charles P. Lykes
| | Lewis A. McMurran
William J. Noonan
J. Alvin Philpott
- Richard H. Turrell
, Frederick G. Uhlmann |
Law School Chairman: Cyrus V. Anderson $11,231,789
. Committee Ross L. Malone Thomas D. Anderson
Partner: : John W. Ball
E. Waller Dudley Edmund D. Campbell
; | Richard D. Haynes
Marion G. Heatwole
James Bland Martin
° James D. Sparks
4 John Bell Towill
, : Sherwood W. Wise |
Parents’ Chairman: _ William Ingles $ 489,884
Committee John L. Crist, Jr. David T. Johnson Ue
f Partner: H. Reed Johnston
; Joseph E. Birnie H. P. McJunkin
P J. William Robinson
Richard T. Scruggs
' Charles C. Stieff, II
Mi Foundations Chairman: Joseph C. Broadus $ 1,838,500
4 Committee Isadore M. Scott Arthur M. Doty, Jr.
‘ L. Addison Lanier
i) E. Michael Masinter
: _ Thomas W. Moses
Fred M. Vinson
: Business Chairman: Edwin Hyde > 58,535
t & Industry Joseph T. Lykes, Jr. Joseph Merrick Jones, Jr.
( Committee Partner: Frank Markoe, Jr.

ON <g

_E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr.

Edwin A. Morris
Archibald A. Sproul, II

MAJOR CAPITAL
GIFT COMMITMENTS

 

 

As of February, 1973, the following donors have
made leadership grants — gifts of $100,000 or more—

‘The William R. Kenan Charitable Trust
The Kresge Foundation

toward the objectives of the 1976 goal of $36,000,000. Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

The success of the effort today rests squarely upon Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. Lykes, Jr.
their generosity and ambition for the future of Wash- Mr. and Mrs. Ross L. Malone
ington and Lee University. Mr. S. Blount Mason*

‘The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
Mr. Eldridge W. Poindexter*
Dr. and Mrs. Huston St. Clair

and Mrs. Katherine St. Clair
Mr. and Mrs. Oliver H. Scharnberg
Mr .and Mrs. John M. Stemmons
Mr. E. L. ‘Tardy*
Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan W. Warner
One anonymous gift

Mrs. Lillian Barclay*

}. }. Barrett*

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Broadus
Mr. and Mrs. J. Stewart Buxton
‘The Charles A. Dana Foundation
Mrs. Charlotte R. Flint*

Mr. and Mrs. C. Thomas Fuller
Mrs. Claiborne W. Gooch, Jr.

Mr. Wilbur C. Hall*

Dr. A. A. Houser

* Deceased

oS

Development
of new

» roads/walks ©
system

Student Seiname ae é : ls
ae Housing _~ “Sie - y Site a
ee See eee ae aa _ va ecntnee SENOO
et pha ae ’ Se a sf | a. of Law

Doremus
Addition _

Renovation
of central
, utilities
a rts Poe x edd ee. om 4 | Site of a
444 4 doe = as — : a new

ee wide —<_ natin ire or Library

‘of
Pee WO ageed Remodeling &
aa he gers McCormick

Renovation | | | Ga ok os
of Newcomb . ¥ Bele ee
: Renovation

of Tucker

<2 . fim f:

 

Se re Pa
>

i r
# ak Pe y Ps
Ps > . es : :

  

os : ; ’
a fi Pre is OF ky SO . F c ; x Pa tt
o. Mie west & wt renct > Ps ¢ Po * Shes a ets

Under the current master plan, shown above, the Washington and Lee campus will continue to expand to the west and the interesting
topography of the Woods Creek Valley will be put to use. Construction represents 43% of the overall financial objectives of the Program.

 

 

yx

job opportunities and employers with a
greatly enlarged interview group.

The joint program has been initiated
by Hollins, Sweet Briar, Randolph-Ma-
con Woman’s, Lynchburg, and Roanoke
Colleges and Virginia Military Institute
as well as W&L.

Together, the seven participating col-
leges have more than 1,500 seniors — one-
third of all the private-college seniors in
Virginia. The new cooperative schedul-
ing plan is designed to attract a larger
number of businesses and other employ-
ers to the area and to increase the effi-
ciency of the interviewing process itself.

Under the plan, students at all seven
colleges will be invited to schedule ap-
pointments with firms which conduct in-
terviews at any one institution.

 

New Commerce Journal

 

The first issue of a new student pub-
lication, the Washington and Lee Com-
merce Review, a semi-annual journal in
the fields of business, economics, and
politics, appeared in March. It contains
the following articles:

“What Has Government Done to Our
Money?” by Dr. Murray N. Rothbard,
professor of economics at Brooklyn Poly-
technic Institute. It deals with the philo-
sophical alternative of the free market
mechanism to the production, distribu-
tion, and exchange of the money of a
society, providing a basis for its pre-
dicted work-ability and citing the ill ef-
fects of an inflatable, government-con-
trolled fiat currency.

“The Federal Reserve System: Pro
and Con” by U.S. Sen. William E. Brock,
Ill, Republican of Tennesee, a 1953
graduate of W&L. It expresses a favorable
view toward the record of the Federal

April 1973

Need OR

Keaaeaccec ss

Commerce Review editors Bill McIlhany, Bill Merrill, and’ Thornton Hardie, III.

Reserve System, concluding that it has
been the object of much unjustified cri-
ticism.

“The Attack on the American Free
Enterprise System” by Associate Justice
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., of the U.S. Supreme
Court, a 1929 graduate of W&L and a
1931 graduate of its School of Law and a
member of the University Board of
Trustees. This is a memorandum to the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, written be-
fore Powell was named to the Supreme
Court. It deals with attacks on the free
enterprise system by leftist groups in the
U.S. and the lack of effective opposition
to these groups by advocates of the free
enterprise system and suggests ways in
which the attacks can be met and de-
feated.

President Nixon’s Executive Order
11490, “Assigning Emergency Prepared-
ness Functions to Federal Departments
and Agencies,” with an introduction by
Bill McIlhany, a W&L senior from Roa-
noke, Va., a history major and a com-

 

merce student, and leader in the John
Birch Society. The commentary sees a
threat to individual rights posed by arbi-
trary, unconstitutional powers of the
President.

“The Responsibilties of Business in
a Changing Society” by Stewart S. Cort,
chairman of the board of Bethlehem Steel
Corp. This is an analysis of popular fal-
lacies regarding the nature of a business-
man’s responsibilties to society, identify-
ing those that are rational and that will
naturally result from the profitable opera-
tion of a business.

“Western Technology in the Soviet
Union” by Antony Sutton of the Hoover
Institution at Sanford University. ‘The
article is the previously unpublished con-
clusions to his three-volume study of Sov-
iet economic development, 1917 to 1965.
The summation contends that the little-
known near total dependence of the Sov-
iet economy on Western technology and
inventiveness has resulted from the in-
ability of Soviet central planning to serve

19

 

team prizes -

| petition at the Old |

Norfolk, and anothe
Citadel Invitati

a ‘Competing i
“ney were 60 tean

 

 

 

 

      
  
 
    

 

 

   

ee ; Be
| ss - So - - -
a a - ; ; Oo So : 7
oe oe a 7 : -
: - - : 7
a 7 : oe 7 - : :
- ; - : 7
7 a - - + 7 - 7 : -
- 7 - : - -
: : : - 7 ;
- - > - 7 a
: - : - - - a OO .
/ : : . - - - : :
7 -_ - -
7 -
a i a ;
- : - - ; a -
; : a 7 a oe

—_— oe

 

 

 

pats

See

 

 

   

  

 

 
   

a

4,
ar
oe a
eo
eo

 

  
  
 
 

  

ae
oe

 
 

 

  
 
   

    

us|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ings

reen

8

.

 

lm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A

by John E. Hughes

: a
» Wrestlers and swimmers excel:
basketball team Is runner-up

-~

_

Washington and Lee capped off a
very successful winter sports season by
capturing two of three conference cham-
pionships. The W&L
wrestlers won the College Athletic Con-

swimmers and

ference titles, while the Generals’ bas-
ketball team was runner-up to a very
good Sewanee team.

All three had winning seasons, with
the basketball team finishing at 13-12,
the wrestling team 13-5 in dual meet
competition, and
10-2 in dual meets.

In addition, the W&L swimmers and
wrestlers also won state championships,

the swimming team

capturing the first championships of the
year-old Virginia College Athletic Asso-
ciation (VCAA). The VCAA is made up
of 15 of the smaller colleges in Virginia.
W&L was host to both championship
events.

track coach
Norris Aldridge also reinstituted indoor

Washington and Lee

track for the winter, primarily as a pre-
season conditioning program for outdoor
track in the spring. The Generals won
the Lynchburg Relays and placed fifth
among eight teams (and just two points
out of third) in the VCAA Indoor Meet.

For Coach John Piper’s wrestlers, it
was not only the first winning season in
a long time, but matched the all-time
record for the most wins in a season (the
1949-50 W&L wrestling team was 13-2).
Seven W&L wrestlers had winning rec-
ords, five won conference championships
and four captured state titles in the
VCAA. Doug Ford, 167-pound sopho-
more, posted the best record, 13-2, while
the other regulars were: Don Overdorft
(118) 12-2-1; Jim Stieff (150) 12-3-1; Dan
White (134) 11-3-2; Sam Lewis (177)
11-5-1; Bill Melton (142) 10-4-2; Lee Keck
(126) 10-5-2; Lanny Rainey (190) 8-8;

April 1973

 

Star wrestler Doug Ford tosses an opponent.

Outstanding diver Bill Cogar
and teammates.

 

 

Dave Powers (Hwt.) 5-8; and Rick Held-
irch (158) 4-6-2.

Lewis and Melton won both confer-
state championships; Keck,
Stieff and Overdorff captured conference

ence and

crowns, and Powers and Ford won state
titles. Injuries hampered Rainey and
Heldrich.

Coach Bill Stearns’ swimmers set 14
new school records and 15 conference
marks, and qualified two men for the na-
tional championship meet en route to
winning both the conference and VCAA
titles. W&L’s only dual meet losses were
to state champion Virginia and to run-
ner-up William and Mary (by one point).
The Generals finished third (of nine
teams) behind UVa and W&M in the
state meet for all Virginia schools.

Bill ‘Tiers set
school and conference records in both
the 500- and 1000-yard freestyle events;
Steve Erickson qualified for the national
meet in the 100-yard backstroke in record

23

Freshman swimmer

Athletics

time; and freshman diver Bill Cogar
qualified in both the one- and _ three-
meter diving in record performances.
Other record-setters were Will Brotherton
in the 100- and 200-yard butterfly, Ro-
bert Searles in the 200- and 400-yard in-
dividual medley, and Rick Koch in the
100-yard breaststroke. Three relay teams

also. set new marks: the 400-yard
medley relay (Erickson, Koch,  Bro-
therton, Jim Howard), 400-yard free-

style (Searles, Tiers, Howard, Brother-
ton) and 800-yard freestyle (Searles, Alan
Corwith, Tiers, Brotherton).

W&L’s young basketball team had an

 

tricks—batting away an opponent’s shot.

24

 

Basketball captain Paul McClure is up to one of his favorite

up-and-down season, but still recorded
its seventh straight winning season. The
Generals capped off the season by playing
well in the CAC tournament. W&L eas-
ily disposed of Centre and Southwestern
in the first two games of the round-robin,
and fell to a very good Sewanee team on
its home court, 89-81, in the champion-
ship game. Particularly outstanding were
junior Skip Lichtfuss and senior Paul
McClure, who were both named to the
All-Conference Team. It was the second
such honor for both men.

The Generals played in three tourna-
ments during the year, and Lichtfuss was

RR

 

 

 

Skip Lichtfuss with game ball presented to him after he scored
his 1,000th career point.

named to the All-Tournament Team of
all three. He led the Generals in scoring
with a 19.7 average for the year and went
over the 1,000-point mark for his career
late in the season. McClure also averaged
double figures with an 11.2 mark, and was
tops in rebounding with a 10.7 average.
Besides McClure, other seniors closing
out their basketball careers were Doug
Clelan, Charlie Strain and Hatton Smith.

W&L’s freshman basketball squad also
had a banner year, posting a 10-2 record.
The frosh were led by John Rice with
a 19.5 average and John Podgajny with
11.1.

a 3 eS

ESE

 

WeL

Chapter News

 

Lynchburg Citation awarded
to Frances and Sydney Lewis

LYNCHBURG. The Lynchburg Citation
for outstanding service to the University
was presented on March 2 to Frances and
Sydney Lewis of Richmond. The citation
honored the Lewises for their gift of $9
million to the School of Law. The pres-
entation was made at the Lynchburg
chapter’s annual meeting at the Holi-
day Inn, South. Chapter President O.
Raymond Cundiff, ’33L, presented the
citation to Mr. and Mrs. Lewis, both of
whom made brief acceptance remarks. A
highlight of the evening was humorous
comments by Bert Schewel, °41, a fra-
ternity brother and roommate of Sydney
Lewis. His anecdotes about Sydney and
their days on campus kept the assembled
alumni and their wives in constant laugh-
ter. Schewel’s talk, all in fun, was a great
tribute to the Lewises. Lea Booth, ’40,
presented a plaque to Judge Cundiff and
expressed appreciation to him on behalf
of the chapter for his leadership during
the past year. The principal speaker was
Law Dean Roy L. Steinheimer, introduc-
ed by Edward S. Graves, ’30. Dean Stein-
heimer talked about the future of the
School of Law and how the Lewis gift
will strengthen the law program and pro-
vide a magnificent new building. Among
the guests from the University were Dean
and Mrs. Steinheimer, Dean and Mrs.
W. J. Watt, Dean and Mrs. Edward C.
Atwood, Jr., Dean Robert McAhren,
Treasurer and Mrs. James W. Whitehead,
Athletic Director and Mrs. William D.
McHenry, and Alumni Secretary and
Mrs. W. C. Washburn. The following
new officers were elected: Robert C.
Wood, III, ’62, president; Henry M. Sac-
kett, III, 64, vice president; and Rodger
W. Fauber, ’63, secretary-treasurer. Chair-
man of the nominating committee was
Dr. Ed Calvert, ’44.

April 1973

 

———e ai"
| | Digs

ae HT SAR

TON (Nal : , Pe Ny oe \\

 

BALTIMORE. To the tunes of a live
and swinging rock-’n-roll band, Baltimore
alumni and their wives or dates gathered
at the Mount Washington Club on Feb.
3 for a “Roar’n ’50’s Dance.” The “swing-
ers’ wore the picturesque dress of the
'50’s, and jitterbugging was the order of
the evening. Clark Carter, 69, outgoing
president, paid tribute to the wives and
dates for providing a delicious buffet din-
ner. There was plenty to eat and drink,

At left, Judge Cundiff (center)
presents the Lynchburg
Citation to Sydney and Frances
Lewis. Below are officers of
the Baltimore chapter:

Carroll Klingelhofer, ’65,
James S. Maffitt, IV, ’64,
Randy H. Lee, ’69, and Butch
West, III, ’65.

\ N
NA

and the revelry went on into the small
hours. At one point, Carter took the
mike “Sinatra fashion” and called for
the report of the nominating committee.
Unanimously acclaimed new officers were:
Randy H. Lee, ’69, president; Carroll
Klingelhofer, ’65, vice president; James
S. Maffitt, IV, ’64, secretary; and J. H.
(Butch) West, III, ’65, treasurer. Alumni
Secretary Bill Washburn joined the group

for the merry evening.

25

 

 

WeL’s Reeves Collection of Chinese ee tirt porcelain on i ditbiay at the
High Museum of Art in Atlanta.

ATLANTA. An estimated 650 Atlanta-
area alumni and friends of the Univer-
sity attended a reception on Feb. 23 on
the occasion of the opening of an exhibi-
tion of the Reeves Collection of Chinese
export porcelain at the High Museum of
Art. The show was the first major ex-
hibition of pieces from the extraordinary
collection, bequeathed to W&L in 1967
by Euchlin D. Reeves, ’27, and his wife
Louise Herreshoff Reeves of Providence,
R. I. Hosts at the reception were mem-
bers of the University’s Board of Trus-
tees, whose midwinter meeting coincided
with the premiere. More than 260 pieces
were included in the show which con-
tinued through April 8. The exhibition
was part of W&L’s observance of the
U.S. Bicentennial to be celebrated in
1976. ‘The Reeves Collection has intrin-

sic historical and aesthetic value.

 

Chapter Correspondents

Appalachian—Jimmy D. Bowie, ’56, 714 Arl-
ington Avenue, Bristol, Va. 24201
Arkansas—Edward D. Briscoe, Jr., ’59, 17
Edgehill, Little Rock, Ark. 72207 ;
Atlanta—Alex Hitz, Jr., ‘42, 1883 Wrycliff

Road, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30309
Augusta-Rockingham—William B. Gunn, ’42,
Box 668, Harrisonburg, Va. 22801
Baltimore—Randy H. Lee, ’69, 119-E. Ver-
sailles Circle, Towson, Maryland 21204
Birmingham—William E.° Smith, Jr., °’63, 15
Norman Drive, Birmingham, Ala. 35213
Charleston—Louie A. Paterno, Jr., ’65, 12 Hill-
top Court, Charleston, W. Va. 25314
Charlotte—Harry J. Grim, ’52, 2522 Sherwood
Avenue, Charlotte, N.C. 28207
Chattanooga—Wesley G. Brown, ‘51, Penn
Mutual Life Ins. Co., Lobby Maclellan
Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402
Chicago—William H. Hillier, ’38, 321 West
Lincoln Avenue, Wheaton, Ill. 60187
Cleveland—Peter M. Weimer ’63, 10813 Music
Street, Newbury, Ohio 44065
Cumberland Valley—Dr. Clovis M. Snyder, ’51,
1825 Woodburn Drive, Hagerstown, Mary-
land 21740
Danville—Judge F. Nelson Light, '52, Route
No. 2, Box 49-A, Chatham, Va. 24531
Florida West Coast—George W. Harvey, Jr.,
’63, WFLA-TV, 905 Jackson Street, Tampa,
Fla. 33601
Gulf Stream—A. J. Barranco, '64, Suite 1004
Concord Bldg., 66 West Flagler St., Miami,
Fla. 33130
Houston—Fred B. Griffin,
Houston, Texas 77027

26

"60, 4005 Chatham,

Jacksonville—John G. McGiffin, III, ’63, 4114
McGirts Blvd., Jacksonville, Fla. 32201

Kansas City—William N. Leedy, ’49, 814
Westover Road, Kansas City, Mo. 64113

Louisville—John C. Norman Jr., ’64, 118
Travois Road, Louisville, Kentucky 40207

Lynchburg—Robert C. Wood III, ’62, 4720
yeaah Road, Lynchburg, Virginia

Mid-South—Jerome Turner, ’64, 325 N. Rose
Road, Memphis. Tenn. 38117

Mobile—Harvey E. Jones, Jr., ’64, 204 Walsh-
wood, Mobile, Ala. 36604

Montgomery—Joe F. Bear, ’33, 2134 Rose-
mont Drive, Montgomery, Ala. 36111

New Orleans—Gus A. Fritchie, Jr., ’50, P.O.
Box 729, Slidell, La. 70258

New River-Greenbrier—Thomas A. Myles, ’16,
Drawer 60, Fayetteville, W. Va. 25840

New York—Steven A. Galef, ’62, 44 Orchard
Drive, Ossining, N.Y. 10562

Norfolk—Frank Callaham, Jr., ’52, 1401 Bruns-
wick Avenue, Norfolk, Va. 23508

North Texas—David Carothers, ’61, 5532 Park
Lane, Dallas, Texas 75220

Northern California—Paul R. Speckman, Jr.,
57, 1562 Lilac Lane, Mountain View, Cali-
fornia 94040

Northern Louisiana—M. Alton Evans, Jr., ’63,
P. O. Box 639, Shreveport, La. 71102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Hugh S. Glick-

 

stein, °53, 2138 Hollywood Blvd., Holly-
wood, Fla. 33020

Palmetto—William M. Bowen, ’63, Dowling,
Dowling, Sanders Box 1027,

oe Dukes,

Beaufort, S.C. 2

Peninsula—Dr. Frank S. Beazlie, Jr., ’40,
cane Mallicotte Lane, Newport News, Va.
236

Pensacola—Robert D. Hart, Jr., ’'63, 3985
Piedmont Road, Pensacola, Fla. 32503

Philadelphia—Theodore G. Rich, Jr., 58, 226

. Rittenhouse Square No. 3011, Philadel-
phia, Pa. 19103

Piedmont—Walter Hannah, ’50, 5100 Laurinda
Drive, Greensboro. N.C. 274 10

Richmond—Daniel T. Balfour, °’63, 326 Ross
Building, Richmond, Virginia 23219

Roanoke—William S. Hubard, ’50, Shenan-
doah Life Ins. Co., Roanoke, Va. 24010

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree, III, ’59, P.O.
Box 948, Lexington, Va. 24450

San Antonio—Edgar M. Duncan, ’61, 700
Wiltshire, San Antonio, Texas 78209

St. Louis—Andrew N. Baur, ’67, 1631 Dear-
born, St. Louis, Mo. 63122

South ee ae Piedmont—Alvin F. Fleish-
man, ’41, O. Drawer 4106, Station B,
Anderson. g Cc. 29621

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick,
53, Box 475, Santa Ana, Calif. 92702

Southern Ohio—Stanley Hooker, Jr., ’39, 1185
Beverly Hills Drive, Cincinnati, Ohio | 45226

Tulsa—Neil McNeill, 50, 3724 South Florence,

’43, 507

Tulsa, Okla. 74105
Upper ‘Potomac—Albert D. Darby,
Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Md. 21502
Washington—Joseph J. Smith, III, ’60, Legg,
Mason and Company, 1100 17th Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20036

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, ’62, 3010
Ventura, Abilene, Texas 79605
Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, ’52, Box 3958,

Greenville, Wilmington, Delaware 19807

WeL

 

ae -

 

 

Janes Ww. ee is aie in
after 6 years a a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

] mill worker for
outhworks,, in the

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

S. J. Colvin, *64

Business School in a year or so for the
second unit of the Smaller Company Man-
agement Program.

1966

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. C. FREDERICK BENT,
III, a son, Jonathan Mace, on Nov. 1, 1972.
Bent is employed by The Boston Co. Per-
sonal Resources, Inc., a division of The
Boston Co. He is director of client services,
which handles complete tax investment and
estate planning. The family lives in Milton,
Mass.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Roy A. TYLER, a
daughter, Kristen Ashley, on Jan. 17, 1973.
Tyler, formerly legal advisor in the Evans-
vill, Ind., Police Department is now an
associate in the law firm of Trockman,
Flynn & Swain.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. THEODORE E. LARSON,
II, a daughter, on Feb. 9, 1973. She joins
two older brothers in New Milford, N.J.
Larson is sales manager for Bach & Co. of
Paramus, N.J.

THORNTON MONTAU HENRY has taken a posi-
tion as tax law specialist with the IRS. He
is a member of the Florida Bar and was
released from the U. S. Army Corps of
Engineers in April, 1972.

CHARLES F. CLEMENT is now with the
mortgage banking firm of Northland Mort-
gage Co. in St. Louis, Mo. He and his wife,
the former Susan Edith Brazwell, have two
children.

Bruce W. RIpeR, sales representative for
Xerox Corp. in Myrtle Beach, S.C., for
the past year, has recently been promoted
to the position of product coordinator in
the Business Product Center in the Xerox
marketing offices in Rochester, N.Y.

Cart. JAMES K. BurTON is in the second
year of a two-year tour of duty in Thailand
with the Special Forces.

1967

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HuBertT HOWELL
YOUNG, JR., a son, Hubert Howell, III, on
Jan. 6, 1973. Young is presently stationed
as a Navy legal officer at Gulfport, Miss.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES G. LEVY, a
daughter, Amy Beth on Sept. 10, 1972. The

April 1973

family lives in Great Neck, N.Y.

JouHN S. GRAHAM, III, after three years as
a gunnery officer in the U. S. Navy, is now
in his second year at Yale Law School.

JAMeEs R. HICKAM is working towards an
M.B.A. at the University of Rochester.

JAMEs H. Cooper is now assistant rector
of Christ Church in Ponte Vedra Beach,
Fla. He and his wife, Tay, have two children.

Tuomas C. Davis, III, is currently pursuing
a Ph.D. degree in religion from the Pitts-
burgh Technological Seminary of the Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh.

MICHAEL Y. SAUNDERS received a masters
degree in political science from Stanford
University in 1968 and a J.D. Degree from
Harvard Law School in 1971. He is married
to the former Sheryl Ameen. They live in
Houston, where Saunders is associated with
the law firm of Baker & Botts.

1968

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. ROBERT WEIN, a son,
Robert Michael, Jr., on Oct. 20, 1972. Dr.
Wein will complete his first year of family
practice residency at the University of Vir-
ginia Medical Center. He will enter the

 

National Health Service Corps for two years
and expects assignment to a clinic in New-
port News.

Ropert T. MILLER is employed by Lukens
Steel Co. as a sales representative in Hous-
ton, Tex. He and Elizabeth Ann White were
married Aug. 12, 1972.

Dr. PAuL A. BROWER is a resident in the
department of surgery at the University of
California, Los Angeles. He expects to pursue
a career in either pediatric surgery or
urology.

SAMUEL B. PRESTON is a consultant with
Syn-Cronamics, Inc., in River Edge, N.J. He
holds an M.B.A. from Wharton’s Graduate
School of Business.

1969
MARRIED: JAMES B. GITHLER to Deborah
Saxton of Cincinnati, Ohio, on July 15,
1972. Now attending Syracuse Law School,
Githler expects to enter practice this sum-
mer in Corning, N.Y.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES M. CHANCE, a
daughter, Kirby Scott, on Aug. 16, 1972.
Chance is a Ph.D. candidate in biology at
the University of Pennsylvania.

J. B. Goopwin, after discharge from Navy
in July, 1972, is presently a student at
Columbia Business School.

Joe H. DAvENporT, III, is general manager
of Coca-Cola Bottling Works in Charleston,
W.Va.

After receiving his LL.B. from the Univer-
sity of Texas, ROBERT G. ARMSTRONG is now
practicing law in Roswell, N.M.

STEPHEN A. SHARP, upon release from the
Army in April, will practice law with the
Federal Communications Commission in
Washington, D.C.

THomaAs W. MULLENIx will be discharged
from the U.S. Army, Military Intelligence
Group, in August, 1973. He expects to enter
the University of Maryland Graduate School
of Government and Politics.

1970

RIcHARD M. IrsBy, III, is presently chief
prosecutor for Army JAG, 2nd _ Infantry
Division, in Korea.

31

 

 

 

 

Court died Oct. 16, 1973. J

 

te

    

|

Dr. Stevens Dies University from 1924 until 1 1930 and
| at Central College, Fayette, Mo., from
Dr. Bennet Porter Stevens, pro- 1930 to 1946. He held | his under.

 
  
 

 

 

   
 
 

until his retirement in "1964, died in | At Washington and Lee he de
his home in Lexington on March 26. loped a the SnSULEMLON 5: i : 7 ca
He was 80. . ual stret

Dr. Stevens joined the Washington
and Lee faculty in 1946 as professor,
having taught previously at Princeton

 

tea hing in 1964, he was 5 elected | pro- i
fessor emeritus. For two years” he-

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

1971 Of years: reat returning to Lex.

Mannie: "lo CROMMELIN to Fran lance | writer. uring his

Lodge No. 533 B'nai Brith. He was also-
a member and ay t presiden
Joplin Chapter of the “National, Assn. of
Life Underwriters. a

 

      
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  

ROBERT — NCER LEONARD of “Kingsport
Tenn., and former ; t vic
for finance of the |

           
  
 
    
 

 

 

Ohio, attorney, « died Jan. 7.
admitted to_ the bar in- ‘1930. ‘He was a
lieutenant in the U.S. Navy during World |
War II. Mr. Shipman — member of the
International Assn. ¢
and the American and |
Qc | was also one of ‘the ori is
Se ____ the Ohio Supreme Court's Board of
! LILE, a retired mining eng! ances and Discipline Mr. pman served
Heer died Dec. 30, 1972, in Clearwater, Fla, as director of the First National Bank ‘and |
where he hae, been Hiving for several ears. Trust Co., | Specialty Co., the
ineer in Bagu Troy ‘Sunshade _ Co, ‘the. | ‘Troy-Tipp Tele-
phone Co., and the Skinner pomaeaton Co.

 

 
 
 
  
 
 

       
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 

    
 

 

 

   

businessman, died Jan. 28, 1973. Mn Love-
_ lace founded a motor supply business in
Bozeman and expanded it into a chain.
of stores and machine shops in Oe
© Dillon, and Helena. In early 1942, he
i secuiee ane impleme d 7 ey contract

 

at a > time, general cou unsel and . a =

    
   

| vela 0 d th ing to ‘supply /
business vnc i EFioml it was sold

 

Canning Co., which he: thinaged q during the
1950’ s. Since 1961, he had manag

  
  

 

 

ee —

 

tended both Virginia : iar —- and
100 tor 1 He eo MI fron

   

Va., died Feb. 13, 1973. . Cathey ‘died in
oe where he ie

 

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee Ice Buckets and Trays

GPE ae: Lee LE Le Ls 4 4
c

Use Order Form Below:

ROCKBRIDGE CHAPTER—W&L
P.O. Box 948
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me the items checked below. Make
checks payable to Rockbridge Chapter—WeL.

[ ] Large ice bucket, $45.00 each plus $2 handling
and postage.

[ ] Small ice bucket, $37.50 each plus $2 handling
and postage.

[ ] Big tray, $15.00 each plus $1 handling and postage.

[ ] Snack tray, $10.00 each plus $1 handling ana postage.

Addvess

City ard State... eee cereeseeeenesnee onsen MO

Virginia residents add 4% sales tax.

Payment Of 3.000... is enclosed.

 

The Rockbridge Chapter of the Washington
and Lee Alumni Association, by authority of the
Alumni Board of Directors, is offering these
handsome ice buckets and trays for sale to raise
funds for the University. Manufactured by the
Bacova Guild, they are made of durable fiber glass
and bear the Washington and Lee crest in full
color. The ice buckets have hand-rubbed maho-
gany tops. All profit from sale of these items goes
to the scholarship fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, 14. Income from the fund helps worthy
students attend Washington and Lee.

THE PRICES:

Large ice bucket (three gallons) $45.00 plus $2
handling and postage.

Small ice bucket (five quarts) $37.50 plus $2 handling
and postage.

Big tray, (16x21) $15.00 plus $1 handling and postage.

Small snack tray (12x17) $10 plus $1 handling and
postage.

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

Available Again

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of four different scenes
Price $32.00 for set of four
including shipping charges

Available in blue color only

The four scenes are:

LEE CHAPEL
WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LEE-JACKSON HOUSE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

