   

aes
a

 

 

a
 e

   

 

 

CS

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 46, Number 6, December 1971

William C. Washburn °40........0.00.00. ces Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman.................0....5. Managing Editor
A. Michael Philipps ’64............0...00.: 04 Associate Editor

and Photographer
Robert S. Keefe, ’68 .............0....: Contributing Editor
Mrs. Joyce Carter.............:.c cee Editorial Assistant

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Mr. Justice Powell oo... ]
What Lawyers Think of Powell ........0.000.... 08 9
Powell’s Devotion to W&L «0.0.0.0... 10
Deferred Gifts Program ............0..000 cee 1]
Eyes and Ears on W&L |... ces 14
A Letter to Alumni 0.0000... 16
The Ring-tum Phi’s View ..........0.0..0: cee 18
University Finances .........00..000.c ces 20
Law School Goes Coed .............0.0:ccceetee eee 24
Dudley Named Trustee .........0.0000000c ee 30
Chapter News ..0..0.00....c cc tires 31.
Class Notes .000.0000000.00ccccceceeeeeceeee eerste ettereneenees 32

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

=

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

RicHarp H. Turret, ’49, Short Hills, N.J.
President

A. CHRISTIAN CoMPTON, ’50, Richmond, Va.
Vice President

T. Hat Crarke, ’38, Washington, D.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WasHBurN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Upton BEALL, ’51, Tyler, Texas
RicuHarp D. Haynes, ’58, Dallas, ‘Texas
Witu1aM H. Hier, 38, Chicago, Il.

S. L. Kopap, JR., 43, Memphis, ‘Tenn.

J. PeTeR G. MUHLENBERG, '50, Wyomissing, Pa.
J. ALvin Puitport, 45, Lexington, N.C.
Emit C. RAssMAN, III, ’41, Midland, ‘Texas
BEAUREGARD A. REDMOND, '55, New Orleans, La.
EVERETT TUCKER, JR., ’34, Little Rock, Ark.

On the cover: Lewis F. Powell is besieged by cam-
eramen at Senate Judiciary Committee hearings on
his nomination as an Associate Justice of the Su-
preme Court. We&L associate editor A. Michael
Philipps was there to capture the moment, along
with others during Powell’s appearances in Wash-
ington, and later photographed the new justice
when he visited Lexington for a football weekend.
His pictures are found in a story beginning on the

opposite page.

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP as required by Act of
Congress of Aug. 24, 1912, as amended by the Acts of
March 3, 1933, July 2, 1946 and June 11, 1760: W&L, The
Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee University is own-
ed by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., and is
entered as second class matter at the Post Office in Lexington,
Virginia 24450, with additional mailing privileges at Roa-
noke, Virginia 24001. William C. Washburn is editor and
business manager. His address is Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, Lexington, Virginia 24450. There are no bond, mort-
gage, or other security holders. The average number of copies
of each issue during the 12 preceding months was 15,00.

 

 

‘ee we mea * ©

— Se +

+
¢

¢
ay *

+, @¢ &

4

x

a &

%
~ «

zs
~2hR es YY *

2
Bw we q

~~

by Robert G. Holland

Lewis F. Powell, alumnus and trustee,
is named to the U.S. Supreme Court

The purest treasure mortal times afford

Is spotless reputation; that away,

Men are but gilded loam or painted clay.
—WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE

Simply put, Lewis Franklin Powell, Jr.,
the 99th Justice of the United States Su-
preme Court, is a scholar and a gentle-
man.

That term has been well worn and even
sullied by excessive penny-ante use, |
know, but what two words, after all, could
more adequately summarize this tall, slen-
der, 64-year-old product of Richmond’s
Main Street and Washington and Lee
University’s commerce and law schools?
A scholarly gentleman. A_ gentlemanly
scholar. A W&L gentleman. A Virginia
gentleman.

Mr. Justice Powell, a straight arrow
in an age when crooked ones sometimes
seem to predominate, implored reporters
questioning him prior to his confirmation
by the Senate not to use any “vivid ad-
jectives.”’

“I’m not flamboyant,” he insisted.

Indeed, if flamboyance is a life style,
then Mr. Powell, who became something
of a legend in Richmond for his pain-
staking devotion to civic duty and hard
work as a law partner, has properly dis-
qualified himself. But in the sense of a
meteoric rise in the profession to be the
88th and one of the most distinguished
presidents of the American Bar Associa-
tion, to be a leader in the fight for good
public education for all Virginia citizens,
to be one Southern Justice-Designate

 

Robert G. Holland, a ’63 graduate of
WL, is an editorial writer for The Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch and a former direc-
tor of public information at Washington
and Lee.

December, 1971

 

Mr. Justice Powell

 

 

about whom good things were heard from
virtually every side, to be these things
and much more, then Lewis Powell is
very much a flamboyant star.

Some anonymous sage once said that to
try to describe Chief Justice John Mar-
shall’s eloquence “would be an attempt to
paint the sunbeams.” Anybody trying to
capture the essence of Mr. Justice Powell
on paper must get the same giddy feeling
of trying to dabble gloss on the rays, even
if it has been the writer’s privilege to
have known the subject as it has been
mine.

President Nixon, in
Powell to Mr. Marshall, called the con-

temporary Virginian “a

likening Mr.

very great
American.”

Dr. William Ferguson Reid, the first
Negro elected to the Virginia General As-
sembly in this century, remarked: ‘Mr.

2

pe ie Bag

Powell and Cap’n Dick recall fondly how they

used to steal athletes from VPI.

Powell is a man of unquestioned profes-
sional and intellectual stature, and I have
not found anyone who did not consider
him to be a reasonable, fair-minded man.”’

The Norfolk Virginian-Pilot (in the
capsule description I like best) comment-
ed: “Balance has been his objective. Fair-
ness has been his creed. Scholarship has
been his guide.”

Such is the quality of reputation Mr.
Powell has earned in his chosen profes-
sion since he left Washington and Lee’s
law school 40 years ago that the political
poles tend to converge in general approba-
tion. Conservative columnist James Jack-
son Kilpatrick said Powell “‘is the best Vir-
ginia has to offer, and by the repeated
judgment of his colleagues, perhaps the
best the bar has to offer,’ while a black
columnist for The Washington Post, Wil-
liam Raspberry, said, “One even hears

the word ‘brilliant’ used in reference to
Powell.”

His (the
Dispatch) called him ‘‘a man of reason,

hometown paper Times-
compassion and conscience.”

Even The New York Times, not in the
habit of heaping praise upon Mr. Nixon’s
choices of Southerners for this or that
post, observed editorially that “Mr. Powell
admirably combines the fundamental re-
quirements of legal and intellectual dis-
Mr.
political conservatism and Southern ori-
gin.

So you can see why I resort to a cliche.

tinction wi2%h Nixon’s insistence on

9?

All other descriptions have been taken.
But Lewis Powell really is a scholarly gen-
tleman—the kind General Lee, with his

9?

‘we have but one rule here . . .”” would
undoubtedly approve. Here I am thinking

not of an Old South noblesse oblige, al-

Wel

  
  
  
   
 
 
   
     
  

Miss Josephine Pierce Rucker,

 

re ct that sort of story. ‘But Mr.
ally of the New South,

 

  
   
  
    
   

 
 

  
    
     
   
   

   

 

ni 1 for 33 years be-

- Powell -_re-

    
   
     
     
     
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

HL inne and
ion on confirmation.
: that is, for getting

 

 
 

   

 

   

tice’s parents, Louis F.
Gwathmey Powell, had

‘if one wants to conjure the image -
. Powell and his lovely lady, the

- ‘the tae view of a

ture in. ‘Richn

f the New South if you
eearie ae a

n ninded weighing of
vpoints. ae ‘this, more -

ith, wi whe directed the

ose omthera inter-

on.

WKL's great good

 

: enrolled their son in the prestigious Mc-

Guire’s University School in Richmond,

then one of ne “Mister r Bigs” on the prep treme

spell- — only thee other Richmond boys at Wash- _
ington and Lee at that time. It was lonely | a
for awhile .. . I went out for football, but

 

| & Co., matulactarers of boxes ; ane. furni- |
) ond. The son had been
born to the Powells on Sept. 19, 1907,

  

 

when they were living i in Suffolk. |
_ Now McGuire’ s, it seems

 

trait that 1 was she
Hugo Black of Alabama)

“We made an athletic trip to Lexing- ;

ton,” Powell recalled, “and Cap’n Dick in-

 

vited us to his home to spend the evening.

I was most impressed. I remembered how
very nice and thoughtful he was.

“Yes, you could say that Cap’ n Dick re re-

cruited me to go there, although I had
been interested in. ‘Washington and Lee

 

from the historical standpoint since I

had read all the books on Washington
and. Robert E. Lee I could, get my hands

>

  
 

not Charlottesville, beca _Powell’s” aca-
demic-athletic destination in the fall of

  

| * pintclpste

[ms, was a = ~~ ene
school “pointed to the University of Vir-

ginia,” as the | ee went in those days, 7

 iaved La the ‘Tate Justice :

WkL. I want you to go to No f
bring him back with you.’ |

and go to Norfolk. Stay there ul
| | | | can bring Williams back, trunk
So “to 1 my mother’ S anguish,’ . (and to

fortune), ‘Lexington,

 

’26, but an active athletic career was soon
to be at least ‘partially derailed.
-me nber | there were, I believe,

 

 

was injured and had 1 to quit the ae I

   
     

as a “sophomore ote

 

  

 
   

he’ S going t to VPI otis we convince et
otherwise. We need him badly he

  
  
         
    
   
    

‘Tl do whatever you want me eto (
he said.
| “I said,

  

 
  
      
  

at don’t remember how 1
Lewis was in Norfolk,” Cap’ n
tinued, | “three or four, but
ents fell in love with him.

   

 

 

 

 

1 fie: ¢ drinking f frater-
iokingy » relates.

itor—and_ | working with The Calys, ate Judiciary | ‘ommittee,
owell speaks of “many a night spen Dcenatl he had drawn | higt
making up the Ring-tum Phi; ’ but he had |
BO a Giance to be editor, because ©
plitical system, | in order

erous: “intellectual and per-
sonal “distinctions as a member of the
W&L community included election to Phi — haying now?”

on Dee * Kappa, 7 / The future S

 

Harvard. He was admitted to the Vir-
ginia Bar in 1931, and has been a partner
in the firm of Hunton, Williams, Gay,
Powell & Gibson, one of the South’s oldest
and most prestigious, since Jan. 1, 1968. He
combined trial work with the representa-
tion of varied business interests, but his
career was marked by voluntary service in
more educational, civic, and public posts
then the average mortal can count. The
small liberal arts college, it might be
noted here, has remained one of his great
loves. He has served on the boards of
trustees of Hollins College (attended by
one of his three daughters), Union Theo-
logical Seminary, and, since 1961, Wash-
ington and Lee. He has been awarded
honorary LL.D. degrees by W&L (1960),
Hampden-Sydney, the College of Wil-
liam and Mary, and the University of
Florida.

At this writing, Mr. Powell was uncer-
tain whether being on the Supreme Court
would preclude continued service on the
W&L board. (“I certainly would be deeply
disappointed if I had to leave the board.
I just don’t know now whether I would
be able to stay on.’’)

During World War II, Mr. Powell was
a combat and staff intelligence officer with
the Army Air Force from 1942 to 1946,
including 33 months in the European and
North African theaters. During that time,
he rose from the rank of lieutenant to
full colonel, and received the Legion of
Merit, Bronze Star and France’s Croix de
Guerre.

It was in postwar Richmond, beset as
were most Southern cities with poignant
human problems left to fester too long,
that Lewis Powell really began to make
his mark.

One of his first impressive contribu-

tions to his city was skillfully directing

6

At Senate hearings in Washington were Mrs. Powell, Mrs. R. S. Smith, one of three Powell
daughters, Lewis Powell, III, and, to his right, Mike Brittin, a sophomore classmate at
Washington and Lee.

a special commission which wrote a new
city charter in 1947 introducing the pro-
gressive city manager form of government
to Richmond. In an editorial of Nov. 17,
1946,
kind of work the commission could be ex-

the Times-Dispatch foresaw the

pected to produce under the young lawyer
guiding it: “Selection of Lewis F. Powell,
Jr., to preside over the arduous delibera-
tion of the Richmond Charter Commis-
sion is gratifying to those who are con-
cerned for the best possible report by that
body. Mr. Powell was the ideal choice for
the post. He is recognized as one of the
city’s ablest lawyers, but he is also known
as a man of unusual administrative ability
Mr. Powell
has an inquiring and incisive, yet open,

and capacity for leadership . . .
mind... .”

As chairman of the Richmond School
Board from 1952 to 1961, it was Powell’s
the Old
Capital of the Confederacy through the

responsibility to help guide

uncertain and tumultuous period that fol-

lowed the U.S. Supreme Court’s revolu-
tionary 1954 decision outlawing segrega-
tion of children by race in the public
schools. Cries of “Integration Never!”

were reverberating throughout Dixie,
schools were closing in some places (they
would stay shut in Prince Edward County,
Va., for five miserable years), but Lewis
Powell calmly advised Richmond to obey
the law. Richmond did so, peacefully.
The schools stayed open, and desegrega-
tion began quietly. About the only criti-
cism hear of Powell in his recent confirma-
tion hearing was that student bodies were
not totally, racially balanced through-
out all city schools during his tenure.
Such criticism ignores the temper of the
1950s, and what was possible for any man
of goodwill to accomplish at that time.
(The Times-Dispatch, reflecting on it
all on March 13, 1961, commented: “One
reason why Mr. Powell has been able to
achieve so much for the Richmond schools

has been the respect in which he is held,

Wel

 

   

 

work | for were: r= men, but i none — so, ‘than

Justice Powell

 

 

   

 

    

 

 

Mr. Justice Powell

 

to which Mr. Nixon alluded in making
known his wish that “judicial conserva-
tives’ would start the pendulum swing-
ing back in the other direction. But, to
understand Lewis Powell it is necessary
to comprehend his own balanced and
moderated approach, his strong sense of
proportion. In the same speech cited
above, for example, he added _ this
thought:

“Many of the decisions of the Supreme
Court which are criticized today are likely,
in the perspective of history, to be viewed
as significant milestones in the ageless
struggle to protect the individual from
arbitrary or oppressive government.”

This same reasoned approach was evi-

dent when, upon returning to his alma
mater in 1966, he delivered the annual
John Randolph Tucker Lecture in Lee
Chapel. The topic was civil disobedience,
and lawyer Powell offered a theme which

 

Generals’ quarterback Lewis Powell, III, and father get together

8

should have been sobering to both hot
extremes which were then squaring off:
“Despite the fashion to the contrary, one
may understand and condemn—as I cer-
tainly do—the injustices which initially
provoked civil disobedience without con-
doning or approving a concept which in
the end could produce even greater in-
justices.

“It is true that the Negro has had, un-
til recent years, little reason to respect the
law,” Mr. Powell wrote. “The entire legal
process, from the police and sheriff to the
citizens who serve on juries, has too often
applied a double standard of justice.” But
to underline the ultimate danger to a free
society of the civil disobedience doctrine,
he quoted from Mr. Justice Black: “. .
But I say once more that the crowd moved
by noble ideals today can become the mob
ruled by hate and passion and greed and
violence tomorrow. If we ever doubted

ty,

that, we know it now. The peaceful songs
of love can become as stirring and provoc-
ative as the Marseillaise did in the days
when a noble revolution gave way to rule
by successive mobs until chaos set in .

It . . . (is) more necessary than ever that
we stop and look more closely at where
we are going.”

Dick Howard believes the draftsman-
ship of Mr. Justice Powell’s opinions are
“likely to be in the admirable tradition of
Mr. Justice Harlan,” a erudite conserva-
tive. And he notes with interest that Mr.
Powell has so often quoted from Mr.
Justice Black, the great libertarian, in his
scholarly articles. It just may be that Lewis
F. Powell, Jr., will prove to be a happy
blend of both great traditions.

In any event, the “coup” Cap’n Dick
pulled some 45 years ago is one that all
Washington and Lee men can applaud
today.

after win over Coast Guard.

c w~

Te

   
   

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
    
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

n’s leading
stice Powell

"Judge Uz S. Court of ‘Appeals, Sec-
ond District. |

 

4 views. lw
- Powell’s deep concern —
ministration of | justice a

| ture ‘Society; Vice-Presic
can Law Institute; Forn
American Bar Association.

 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2s

Deferred Gifts Program offers
methods of saving by giving

Washington and Lee has established a Deferred Gifts
and Bequests Program designed to bring helpful infor-
mation regarding tax-saving gifts to the attention of
alumni and friends who want to help the University.

Deferred giving embraces arrangements under which
a person irrevocably gives certain assets to Washington
and Lee and thereby (1) reaps immediate tax advantages,
(2) retains a life income based on the value of the assets
for himself, or for a beneficiary; (3) creates important
Savings in estate taxes; and (4) provides perpetual assist-
ance for Washington and Lee. Bequests involve the mak-
ing of gifts through one’s will, either of an outright
nature or in the nature of a deferred gift as described
above.

Because the various methods used in making deferred
gifts or bequests affect a donor’s estate, the group of
men who are acting as the University’s representatives
in this field are known as the Washington and Lee
Estate Planning Council. This council is headed by
Martin P. Burks of Roanoke, Va., and is composed of
42 alumni volunteers who have special knowledge in
legal, tax, and financial planning. Mr. Burks is general
counsel for the Norfolk & Western Railroad.

Staff support is being provided by Robert C. Liggitt,
associate director of development for deferred giving,
who joined the University’s Office of Development last
spring.

The council held its first meeting on campus on
Oct. 14 and heard President Huntley outline the Uni-
versity’s need to attract substantial funds in the years
ahead to sustain its present program and to build future
strength. He said the program is the culmination of sev-
eral years of planning and effort by the Office of Develop-
ment and is an important and essential phase of the
University’s overall development program.

At the council meeting, Conrad Teitell, tax attorney
and director of the Philanthrophy Tax Institute of New
York, explained the effect of the Tax Reform Act of
1969 on estate planning and the administration of de-
ferred giving programs. He emphasized that the U.S.
government, through the Tax Reform Act, recognized
the need for private institutions like Washington and
Lee to remain private and independent and made pro-
visions for them to continue raising substantial funds

December, 1971

 

    

y WEWSLETTERS
°

So
-S 4

pe os

Martin P. Burks presides at Estate Planning Council meeting.

1]

Deferred Giving

 

through tax-advantageous deferred-giving arrangements.
He said Washington and Lee should make every effort to
take advantage of the law’s provisions and gave numer-
ous examples of how this objective can be accomplished.
Several explanatory tracts prepared by Mr. Teitell which
are readily understandable to laymen are being used in
the program.

The council consists of lawyers, bankers, and other
persons knowledgeable in financial and legal affairs.
Members will serve as advocates for the proposition that
gifts and bequests to the University represent a sound
investment in the welfare of present and future genera-
tions; render advice and assistance to the University
on the implementation of its programs to encourage
deferred gifts and bequests; review materials the Uni-
versity prepares concerning methods of giving through
estate planning and provide technical assistance where
needed; and, where appropriate, discuss with prospective
donors the methods of giving which may best suit
their situation.

They will also serve as deferred giving chairmen in
areas where Washington and Lee alumni are concen-
trated. In this work, they will occasionally participate
in local alumni chapter meetings; discuss the program
with individual alumni and friends; and help donors
reach preliminary decisions about the best method of
making a deferred gift.

Mr. Liggitt’s office, working closely with the council,
will provide a full range of counseling, including per-
sonal visits and explanatory materials, to prospective
donors on the advantages of deferred giving to Wash-
ington and Lee.

Mr. Burks told the council at the close of its first
session: “There is no question about the importance
of this enterprise to the long-term strength and excellence
of the University. As the number of gift commitments
increases and the expectancy file of reported bequests
takes on greater proportions, estimates of future income
will be possible....

“I would like to say to you in a personal vein that
I am vastly impressed with the new atmosphere of
broad-gauged thinking and confidence of outlook which
has been generated at Washington and Lee under Bob
Huntley’s leadership. There has been a real awakening

12

 

Conrad Teitell explains deferred giving plans.

here, and it is plain that genuine forward movement
has begun. I think we have an obligation to keep this
momentum going.”

The Washington and Lee program will concentrate
primarily on three methods of making deferred gifts:
(1) bequests or charitable gifts through wills; (2) the
Washington and Lee Pooled Income Fund or life income
contract; (3) charitable unitrust agreements.

There are several tax advantages in each case, both
immediate and during the life of the donor, and in the
case of the pooled income fund and the charitable re-
mainder unitrust, there are also hedges against inflation.

Bequests made by wills can, for example, eliminate
or greatly reduce estate taxes and probate costs. This is
true, too, of other methods of deferred giving.

The pooled income fund is a method whereby the
donor transfers irrevocably a gift of cash, securities, or
both to the University’s separately maintained pooled
income fund, where it is invested together with similar
transfers of other donors. The donor (or other designated
beneficiary) receives his share of the earnings of the
pooled income fund each year as determined by his
units in the fund. Upon the donor’s death (or death of
other stated beneficiary) payments are terminated, and
the University removes the donor’s gift from the pooled
fund and transfers it for educational purposes set out
in the agreement.

Some of the advantages to the donor of a pooled
income fund are the satisfaction of making an important
charitable gift; avoidance of capital gains tax on gifts of
appreciated securities; relief from the burden of invest-
ing funds; reduction of the vulnerability of attack by
disgruntled heirs; removal of property from the donor’s

Wel

 

 

  

 

 

Gerry U. Stephens
ms Shes a!

 

 

 

 

   
  
 
 
     
   
 
     
        
     

 

alah N. Shearer, Jr.
— Charlie n, W. Va.

 

a

John D ‘Copenhaver —
Roanoke, Va.

  
 

 

   

Clayton, Mo.

_T. Haller Jackson, jr |
_ Shreveport, La.

 

Je
‘Santa Clara, Calif.

"Richard W. Smith
_ Staunton, Va.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Matthews A. Gr
New York, N.Y.

 

 

in 1 el nomad 1 have

but IT feel it

 

 

 

lt

t

lumni

a

obert —

to the
R

i

A

.

umnus.

1

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

courteous and friendly, however, and
greet each other and strangers as they
meet both on and off campus. Students,
like faculty, appear to be much brighter
in 1971 than in 1935-1938.

A superb new $3,000,000 addition to
Doremus is nearing completion, although
the Trustees and others continue to seek
major gifts to finish the funding. The
administration is planning a new law
school building that will be constructed
across the ravine close to the athletic
fields. When fund raising makes that
building possible, Tucker Hall will be
used for some of the University’s ‘“home-
less” departments such as foreign langu-
ages. Also, in the planning stage is a new

 

 

December, 1971

library to replace McCormick Library
which, in turn, will be occupied by the
School of Commerce, Economics and Poli-
tics. Demands on our library have vastly
changed in quantity, quality and scope
since the Andrew Carnegie grant that
made the original building possible. Like-
wise, the Commerce School has experi-
enced a dramatic growth in enrollment
making Newcomb Hall much too small.
Four of the nineteen fraternities which
graced the pre-World War II campus have
left the campus, and 55% of the students
(as contrasted with more than 80% in
1938) are now fraternity members or
pledges. All students and especially those
who do not belong to fraternities make

 

 

good use of the University Center which
was known as the Student Union in my
day and which has been enlarged and
is handsomely furnished. A program of
student activities is carried on there under
the control of a director.

What can you do to help your Uni-
versity? Whether you like it or not, as a
graduate of Washington and Lee, you are
its representative in your community and
you should:

(1) Keep informed about it as it is
today, attending if possible future alumni
gatherings in Lexington.

(2) Recommend Washington and Lee
to qualified students and let the Uni-
versity know of your recommendation so
that printed material can be sent to such
prospects.

(3) Support the University’s annual giv-
ing program with as much thoughtfulness
and generosity as your means permit.
Also, do not forget to include the Uni-
versity in your will or other testamentary
arrangements. We all give a certain num-
ber of dollars away every year to various
worthy undertakings, and Washington
and Lee should be high on our list of
objects for our bounty.

To sum up, Washington and Lee to-
day has an administration, faculty and
student body of high intelligence and
competence. The University is changing
and changing for the better in things that
matter, e.g., improved physical facilities,
a curriculum relevant to the needs of
today, and higher academic standards, but
Washington and Lee retains its adherence
to a moral code of personal honor and
integrity which has long been its most
distinctive characteristic. In short, it is
a place where you would be proud to
have your son enrolled as a student even
as I now am to have my son so enrolled.

17

Alumni and future alumnj-
a lively exchange of views

The Ring-tum Phi’s report on the
Special Alumni Conference was in the
form of an editorial written by Editor
John Robinson, a senior from Atlanta
and a conference participant. Excerpts
from that report follow:

The alumni were especially interested
in student life on campus. Some of their
key questions were:

Are fraternities dying? What are stu-
dents interested in? What is the admis-
sions picture? Is student activism a prob-
lem? How bad a drug problem exists at
W&L?. What has happened to conven-
tional dress?

The alumni were told that fraternities
do have a place at Washington and Lee.
Fraternity membership has declined in
recent years; three houses have gone out
of business. Interfraternity Council Presi-
dent Bob LaRue hypothesized that fra-
ternity membership would level off at
about 50 percent of the student body.

Concerning what are the interests of
today’s students, the alumni received a
general answer to their question. Accord-
ing to Dean William Schildt, W&L men
are expressing growing interest in creative
fields. Over half of the undergraduates
are exposed to the arts, music, or drama
through courses or extracurricular activi-
ties.

Dean of Admissions James Farrar shed
light on the admissions situation for the
benefit of the alumni. He said 350 fresh-
men were enrolled in the present fresh-
man class out of 1,260 applicants. The
number of applicants was up from about
1,250 last year. Farrar compared this in-
crease of applicants with as much as a
20 percent decrease in private eastern
colleges, especially the Ivy League. Dean
Farrar felt more men wanted to attend.

18

 

 

 

 

ities te dak ai
Sea ae . ro ae

‘
D tee a

Alumni and students talk freely in small-group session.

W&L because the school “continued to
be a superior institution,”

Student activism is not very evident
this year, the student representatives ex-
plained. Only a few radicals openly
admitted to be attending W&L. Steve
Robinson, President of the Student Body,

concluded that “the student body is

basically conservative, more liberal than
in the past, yet still conservative.”

The alumni were informed by students
and administrators that drugs were not
an insurmountable problem at W&L. The
use of hard drugs was thought to be
extremely rare, but all the students con-
curred that a majority of their peers had

WeL

 

 

tried marijuana. Also the school’s tri-
partite approach of counseling, educating
and punishing drug users was explained
in detail to certain alumni.

One of the major problems in the eyes
of the alumni is the recent decline of
conventional dress, 1.e., coat and tie. Stu-
dents justified their rejection of conven-
tional dress for a pair of reasons. First,
it was argued that dress is an individual
thing and should not be enforced by
others. Second, students contended that
the tradition was not vital to maintaining
the spirit of Washington and Lee. They
said the coat and tie appearance was only
a superficial aspect of what W&L truly
stands for.

A final concern of W&L alumni was
the recruitment of blacks. Dean Farrar
related to the W&L graduates the Admis-
sions Office’s six-year effort to interest
blacks in attending our institution. The
actions of the Student Recruitment Com-
mittee were cited in this effort.

The questions and incomplete answers
presented here have a direct effect on
you [students] and your brief stay in
Lexington. The W&L graduates usually
contribute a significant portion of the
total cost of every student’s education at
Washington and Lee through alumni
donations. These contributions allow the
University to operate. Therefore, the
alumni have a vital interest in protecting
their investment, W&L.

Do not conclude that students should
unhesitantly cater to the whims of alumni.
Students definitely should not. But stu-
dents could remember that after a few
semesters, they too will be alumni. From
such a mature point of view perhaps
students can more clearly comprehend
the long-range needs and objectives of this
institution.

December, 1971

 

Assistant to the President Frank Parsons heads session on physical planning.

19

 

_ for auxiliary enterprises; 7 per cent for administrative —
cent for plant operation and —
: ni office operation;

     

st 10 years, ‘the budget has grown from.
| 256,250 this year. From ©
es, , the University received $857, 000 i in

 

 

 

 

 

 

niv ou — tuition _— $2 :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: 23 to 25 per cent of its stuc ents: on
ae means the bersipder would need

 

 

 

et

wd

 

 

 

the amount of more than $500,000 annually. This figure average salary, excluding fringe benefits, was $14,317.
includes assistance made available from University The total amount of the 1970-71 budget that went for
sources, endowment income, and designated gifts, and faculty salaries was $1,904,150, with an additional
federal student financial aid programs in which the $267,000 added for fringe benefits. The University
University participates. continues to rank high in comparison with its peer
Student financial aid is an area that is beginning to institutions in the faculty-salary ratings of the
feel a pinch. Washington and Lee in recent years was American Association of University Professors.
able to give financial assistance in the full amount An important element in the financial picture is
of his need to any admitted student who without the endowment. Following the University’s self-study of
assistance would be unable to attend the University. several years ago, an investment committee was
Now because of a strain on financial aid resources established within the Board of ‘Trustees. ‘The members
some students the University would like to help are are Joseph Birnie of Atlanta, chairman; J. Stewart
reluctantly turned down. Buxton of Memphis; ‘Thomas C. Frost, Jr., of San
There has been a 55 per cent increase in the Antonio; John F. Hendon of Birmingham; J. Marshall
faculty since 1960. ‘There were 63 full-time faculty Nuckols, Jr., of Camden, N.J.; and Jack W. Warner
members in 1937, when the tuition was $275. In 1947, of ‘Tuscaloosa, Ala. These men work closely with the
the faculty rose to 73 members, in 1957 to 98. And Treasurer’s Office and the United Virginia/State
today there are 133 full-time teachers. Planters Bank and the United States ‘Trust Co. in
In 1970-71 the average compensation of all full-time the investment of the University’s endowment.
faculty, including fringe benefits, was $16,327. ‘The As of June 30, 1971, the book value of the endowment

 

SS A +

vl

3

mu

<ieeee eeetas
PEESEREEE SEES:
ie es

?
tevwm 5 Piss @ 2 Pam @
§ coca %

%% Sore

és
Pe

«7
?
tae

ER a,» Hee i ahi bated Ra tend

,
»
eet

Fe

Treasurer James W. Whitehead (second from right) and members of the development staff, Associate Director Robert C. Liggitt,
Director Farris P. Hotchkiss, and Associate Director J. Sanford Doughty conduct seminar on University finances.

December, 1971 21

 

se
ees
ss

te
¢j

OO

 

A

me

re

a

se
Soe
ee

pasa
pe

ie

Se

 

 

el 2

v-

-

Tie A
au sf We

——
{|

a

Alumni were intent as the University’s financial condition and

needs were discussed.

was $15,868,980. The market value of the endowment
on the same date was $20,491,673.

In approximate figures, the endowment at cost
is designated as follows: $11 million in general
endowment, the income from which goes for current
operations; just under $1 million for designated
purposes; a little over $1 million for professorships,
and $3 million for scholarships.

Funds held in trust by others that are not counted
by the University as endowment have market value
at the present time of around $6 million. These funds
include the Jessie Ball duPont General ‘Trust held in
Jacksonville, Fla., and the Letitia Pate Evans
Foundation Trust held in Atlanta.

The custodians of our endowment are the United
Virginia Bank of Richmond, holding 60 per cent for

December, 1971

 

 

 

a market value of $12.3 million; the United States
Trust Co., holding 21 per cent of $4.3 million; and
the University Treasurer, holding 19 per cent or $3.8
million, most of which is housing mortgages of the
faculty and staff.

The endowment investments break down into
the following categories: 4.8 per cent in preferred
stocks; 43.5 per cent in common stocks; 34 per cent
in bonds; 11.6 per cent in real estate mortgages; and
6.1 in commercial notes and others.

In 1961-62, the University borrowed $1.5 million
to construct new dormitories, the dining hall, and to
assist in the construction of the new science facilities.
As of July 1, 1971, that debt, held by the Life Insurance
Company of Virginia, had been reduced to $750,000. ‘The
University’s annual payment is $75,000 on the
principal, plus 5.5 per cent interest.

Clearly, Washington and Lee is dependent upon
gifts each year to stay in the black. Contributions in
recent years have enabled the University to balance
its budget with very little left over.

The picture this year, for example, is that the
University’s educational and general expense is
budgeted at $5,361,370. Of this amount, $4,599,250 is
expected to be covered by tuition, earnings on
endowment, and income from trusts, non-endowed funds,
and miscellaneous other sources. ‘The difference is
$762,120, which must come from gifts.

Farris P. Hotchkiss, director of development, put
this situation in historical perspective when he told the
Special Alumni Conference delegates:

“One of the central things to understand about
a small, private, liberal arts college like Washington
and Lee—that is implicit in the whole rationale of our
being here—is the fact that we make available an
education that is philanthropically supported. You will
often find that people, more or less without trying,
arrive at the conclusion that giving is something

you have to resort to. ‘That is not it at all. This school
was founded on the premise that a good share of what
it takes to operate it would be based on giving.”

Such giving in the past has maintained Washington
and Lee’s financial integrity; such giving now and in
the future will preserve that integrity.

23

Campus News

 

The School of Law goes coeducational;
question is pending in other divisions

Washington and Lee’s School of Law
will accept applications for admission
from women beginning with the first-year
class of September, 1972. The decision to
accept applications from women for law
study was made independently of the co-
education question in the University’s
undergraduate divisions, according to
President Huntley.

Trustees of Washington and Lee have
received a faculty committee report de-
scribing in detail the implications of
coeducation at the undergraduate level.
They have asked to be kept informed
about the experiences of other colleges,
similar to Washington and Lee in size
and character, which recently have _ be-
come coeducational.

Planning for the coeducation step in
the School of Law began more than a
year ago, Huntley said, and was de-
liberately separated from the undergradu-
ate question because the implications of
coeducation in the two undergraduate
schools would be far different from what
they will be in the law program. Law
education necessarily reflects the needs
and demands of the profession, Huntley
explained, and accordingly the curricu-
lum and facilities which a good law
school must provide do not vary accord-
ing to the sex of the individual student.

For academic and social reasons, how-
ever, coeducation in the undergraduate
divisions would almost certainly require
a substantial enlargement of the under-
graduate student body, Huntley added,
probably by 30 per cent or more. He said
such an increase in size would have
significant economic implications and
would raise serious questions concerning
Washington and Lee’s continued ability

 

to maximize the advantages of its tradi-

. Coeds in carrels will be a familiar sight next year when
tional small-college environment. Law School begins accepting women students.

24 WeL

The coeducation decision regarding the
undergraduate divisions will therefore
have to be made in response to a different
set of facts, he said, with different conse-
quences for the University’s traditional
emphases.

The School of Law enrolled 252 stu-
dents this year, 25 more than last year’s
record enrollment. The two undergraduate
units—the College and the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics, together
compromising 35 academic departments—
registered 1,382 students this fall, also
another record high. The School of Law
was founded in 1849, and since 1866—
during Robert E. Lee’s presidency of
Washington College—it has been an
integral part of the University. Its stu-
dents this year represent some 40 states
and approximately 100 undergraduate
institutions.

Five alumni of the School of Law have
been elected president of the American
Bar Association, the most recent of whom
are Ross L. Malone, general counsel for
and vice president of the General Motors
Corp., and Lewis F. Powell, Jr.

The law school’s faculty—12 professors
and two visiting lecturers—is headed by
Dean Roy L. Steinheimer, who succeeded
President Huntley as dean when the latter
was named president of the University in
1968.

Even if Washington and Lee had not
been planning for more than a year to
coeducate its law program, a new policy
by the American Association of Law
Schools would have required the step. ‘The
Association has said in the future it will
consider for approval only law programs
with admissions policies that are non-
discriminatory in regard to the sex of
applicants.

Women have been permitted to attend

December, 1971

or “audit” classes at Washington and
Lee on a non-credit basis for decades,
but until now have not been accepted as
degree candidates in any of the academic
divisions.

As a full participant in the Eight-Col-
lege Exchange Program with other single-
sex colleges in Virginia and North Caro-
lina, Washington and Lee had seven full-
time women students in 1970-71, the pro-
gram’s first year, and has 26 this year. The
exchange students remain students in
their “home” institutions but are treated
as regular students at the “host” college.
Academic credit earned at the host school
is transferred to the home college for
degree-granting purposes.

 

Carter 1s Keynoter

 

One of the South’s leading “new”
Democrats, Gov. Jimmy Carter of Geor-
gia, will deliver the keynote address at
Washington and Lee’s 15th Mock Conven-
tion to be held on May 5 and 6.

Meanwhile, U. S. Sen. William B.
Spong of Virginia delivered the Conven-
tion’s fall keynote speech on Oct. 25 in
Lee Chapel. His appearance was the first
of a series of visits by noted Democratic
party leaders planned throughout the year
to provide W&L students with insights
into the issues and opinions that will be
important when the real conventions take
place next summer.

Sen. Spong discussed the impact the
new 18- to 20-year-old voters may have on
national elections. He indicated that he
expects a sharp increase next year in
young voter registration and that these
voters will be “more independent and less
susceptible to political techniques and
appeals” and “more skeptical of political
rhetoric” and will ‘demand a discussion

gS. SBE Ly
ie id ke ¥
* os we oe
a _ Siti
“ ~ “<L_
J

‘ r
Sst cas
ren OR

 

REPRINTED COURTESY OF ‘TIME MAGAZINE;
CopyriGHT 1971: TIME, INC.

of the issues.” He called, too, for repeal
of the convention unit rule, elimination
of fees for those running as delegates, and
reform in the field of campaign costs.

Sen. Spong is a member of the Senate
Foreign Relations, Commerce, and Ethics
Committees. He called for a new voting
system that would combine the popular
vote with the electoral vote in determin-
ing the presidency.

Gov. Carter’s speech will follow the
traditional kickoff parade through down-
town Lexington on May 5. His selection
as keynoter was announced by the con-
‘Thomas
Gillespie, a senior from Greensboro, N.C.,

vention student co-chairmen,
and Michael Campilongo, a second-year
law student from San Diego.

Political commentators have said that
Gov. Carter will be among the most in-
fluential Democrats at the 1972 party
convention in Miami Beach. Describing
himself as a political conservative, he be-

lieves that “the future of Georgia will be

25

Campus News

 

determined by leaders who believe in self-
reliance, local control and individual par-
ticipation in government. He achieved na-
tional political prominence by declaring
in his inaugural address: “I say to you
quite frankly that the time for racial dis-
crimination is over. Our people have al-
ready made this major and difficult deci-
sion.”

Born in Plains, Ga., where he con-
tinues to operate his family’s cotton and
peanut warehouse, Carter was graduated
with distinction from the U. S. Naval
Academy and then served two years on
battleships and five years on submarines.
In statewide politics only since 1962, Car-
ter made his first try for the governorship
in 1966, coming in third. Four years later,
he won by capturing almost 60 per cent
of the vote.

The W&L Mock Convention will at-
tempt to predict who the real Democra-
tic delegates will nominate to run for
President at the Miami Beach convention.
Student “delegates” and “‘party leaders”
work closely with their genuine counter-
parts in all 50 states to determine how the
vote will go. The W&L students have
been right 10 times in 14 tries, making
their mock convention the most accurate
in the country.

 

New Legal Aid Office

A Legal Aid office, providing a full
range of services to those unable to af-
ford a lawyer, has been opened in Staun-
ton to serve residents of the city and
western Augusta County. Staffing the of-
fice will be students from the School of
Law, assisted by junior and senior stu-
dents from Mary Baldwin College.

Practicing attorneys in Staunton will

 

accept and work on every legal matter in

26

which the concerned party demonstrates
that he is unable to engage a lawyer on
the usual fee basis. Generally, an appli-
cant who receives welfare will be eligible
for the program. In addition, a family of
four with an annual income of $3,000 or
less also will be eligible for aid, even if
it does not receive welfare. Standards are

 

Legal Aid Office.

WeL law students and Mary Baldwin volunteers meet to organize Staunton-Augusta

proportionately lower or higher for larger
or smaller families.

Legal Aid services are available for
criminal and civil matters alike, accord-
ing to Professor Lawrence D. Gaughan,

faculty advisor to the Washington and
Lee Legal Aid Association. Lawyers who
participate in the Legal Aid program are

      

Se Sa.

WeL

—_—_—___—_—_—<

_—

pledged to treat clients in exactly the
same manner they treat every other client.

Twenty-six members of the Staunton-
Augusta County Bar Association (the for-
mal law professional organization) will
participate in the Legal Aid program on
2 rotating basis. The role of the students
will be simply to screen the applicants
and to refer those meeting the criteria of
the program
Gaughan said. In each Legal Aid case, a
Washington and Lee law student will be
designated to serve as the attorney’s clerk

to practicing attorneys,

or research assistant.

The program is designed to resemble
the highly successful Legal Aid program
in operation since 1966 in Lexington and
Rockbridge County, also staffed volun-
tarily by members of the Legal Aid As-
sociation, with voluntary cooperation
from the Lexington-Rockbridge County
Bar Association. The lLexington-Rock-
bridge and Staunton-Augusta programs
are the only two such voluntary programs
—in which lawyers participate by choice
rather than by requirement from the Bar

Association—in Virginia.

 

Jarrard Edits Book

The current status of research on the

 

complex behavioral patterns of monkeys
and apes, together with how this informa-
tion relates to research on human pat-
terns of cognition, are the focuses of a new
book edited by Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard,
professor of psychology. The book, Cogni-
tive Processes of Non-human Primates,
was just published by the Academic Press
in New York. Dr. Jarrard is also co-author
of the lead article in the book, ‘“Short-
Term Memory in the Monkey.”
Formerly chairman of Carnegie-Mel-
lon University’s graduate program in

December, 1971

 

—

Dr. LEONARD E. JARRARD

psychology, Dr. Jarrard is head-designate
of the department at Washington and
Lee, to which he feturned this fall after
a six-year absence. Currently he is head-
ing research into the hippocampus, a
small segment of the brain believed to
be intimately involved with motivation
and memory, under a grant from the
National Science Foundation. The hippo-
campus project may have major implica-
tions in science’s understanding of the
functions of the human brain.

 

Economics Panelists

 

Three members of the economics fac-
ulty served as panel members at the 4lst
annual meeting of the Southern Econo-
mic Association in Miami Beach, Fla. Dr.
John C. Winfrey, associate economics pro-
fessor, delivered a paper entitled “Extra-
Marginal Externalities and Social Benefits
and Costs.” Dr. S. Todd Lowry, also an
associate professor, delivered a paper en-
titled ‘““The Strange Roots of the Ration-

ality Postulate in Modern Economic An-
alysis” as part of a discussion on the his-
tory of economic thought. Dr. Edward C.
Atwood Jr., professor of economics and
dean of the School of Commerce, Econo-
mics and Politics, was a panel discussion
member on investments at the conference.

 

Inauguration Delegates

 

Three faculty members—Drs. Edward
F. Turner, Charles V. Laughlin and Wil-
liam W. Pusey III—attended the inaugu-
ration of Dr. Bruce Heilman as president
of the University of Richmond on Nov. 6.
Dr. Turner, professor of physics, rep-
resented the Virginia Academy of Science,
of which he is president this year. Repre-
senting Washington and Lee was Dr.
Pusey, professor of German, head of that
department, and former dean of the Col-
lege.

 

Record Enrollment

 

The University’s 223rd academic year
began in September with a record enroll-
ment, a call from President Robert E. R.
Huntley to maintain “that unique quality
of manner” that has always characterized
the institution, and a full schedule of acti-
vities that should bring national attention
to the campus throughout the year.

More than 1,600 students enrolled in
the fall, breaking last year’s mark of 1,531
who matriculated. The new figure, accord-
ing to registrar Col. Harold S. Head, rep-
resents increased enrollments in the
School of Law and the Eight-College Ex-
change Program. Enrollment in the Law
School was up by 10 per cent over last
year’s 227 total, and there were 26 girls
from Hollins, Sweet Briar, Mary Baldwin,
and Randolph-Macon matriculating this

27

 

 

 

 

 

a

i? ® ¢A4

.

 

 

 

The University has received a helping hand in the form of a hand-carved hand chair.
It is the gift of Dr. and Mrs. Jacob Weinstein of Washington, D.C., parents of
Michael S. Weinstein, a former W&L student. Fashioned from Mexican mahogany,

the chair is a valuable and superlative piece of modern art. Treasurer James W.
Whitehead, an old hand at outstretched palms, shows how the chair works.

December, 1971

central South, including Louisiana and
Tennessee. Roberts has been head of the
department at Washington and Lee since
1964, coming to the University from the
graduate zoology program at Duke. He
served as chairman of the curriculum com-
mittee at W&L during the comprehensive
study and revision of the University’s un-
dergraduate academic programs and re-
quirements of the late 1960’s.

 

Visiting Scholars

 

Three nationally known scholars—a re-
visionist historian of the Reconstruction
era, a distinguished professor of metallur-
gical engineering, and a Yale sociologist
specializing in family structure and men-
tal illness—lectured at the University dur-
ing the second half of October.

Dr. Kenneth Stampp, author of The
Peculiar Institution and The Era of Re-
construction, 1865 to 1877, both attempt-
ing to revise traditionally accepted in-
terpretations of slavery and Reconstruc-
tion, explained “How an _ Historian
Changes his Mind.”

Dr. Henry Eyring of the University of
Utah, author of almost 400 papers on
radioactivity, quantum mechanics in
chemistry, reaction rate theory, molecular
biology, flame theory, and optical rota-
tion, discussed ‘“‘Molecular Structure and
Conformation Using Absorption Spectra,
Natural and Magnetic Circular Dichro-
ism.”

Dr. August deB. Hollingshead, Wil-
liam Graham Sumner professor of socio-
logy at Yale University and author of
Elmtown’s Youth, an in-depth study of
how class prejudice is transmitted and
adapted from one generation to the next,
defined ‘Stratification in American So-
ciety.”

29

Dudley is second Trustee
to be nominated by alumni

E. Waller Dudley, a leading Alexandria attorney, is
the second alumni-chosen member of the University
Board of Trustees. He was formally elected to the Board
at its October meeting after being nominated for the
post by his fellow alumni in a mail ballot conducted dur-
ing the summer. The Alumni Board of Directors sub-
mitted three candidates for the nomination, and Dudley
won in an extremely close contest.

Dudley received his B.A. degree from Washington and
Lee in 1943 with a major in English and his LL.B. de-
gree from the Washington and Lee School of Law in
1947. He is a senior partner in the law firm of Boothe,
Prichard and Dudley in Alexandria, Va. He is immedi-
ate past president of the Virginia Bar Association and is
also a fellow in the American College of Trial Lawyers.

As a student at Washington and Lee, he was elected
to membership in Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary lead-
ership fraternity founded at the University in 1914. He
was also a member of Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity and
Phi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Extremely active in civic service in addition to his
professional work, Mr. Dudley is currently chairman of
the Alexandria Industrial Development Authority and
a director of the Alexandria National Bank. He is also
a former trustee of the Virginia College Fund and has
had roles of leadership in the Northern Virginia Fine
Arts Association and on the board of governors of St.
Stephens Episcopal School for Boys. He has taken an ac-
tive interest in the affairs and welfare of Washington
and Lee and is a former president of the Washington and
Lee Law Alumni Association.

He and his wife have two sons and a daughter. ‘The
older son, Waller T. Dudley, is a sophomore at Wash-
ington and Lee this year.

The first alumnus chosen by alumni and elected to
the Board of ‘Trustees is E. Marshall Nuckols, senior vice
president of the Campbell Soup Co. in Camden, N.J.,
who received his B.A. in 1933 and his LL.B. in 1935
from Washington and Lee. The policy of alumni-nomi-
nated trustees was instituted in 1969 when the Board un-
dertook a major self-study and reorganization plan, one
purpose of which is to give alumni a more direct voice
in the affairs of the University. Under the plan, alumni
will nominate a trustee every two years, providing for a

30

 

E. WALLER DUDLEY

total of three alumni-nominated members by 1974. Dud-
ley’s term will expire in 1978, and he will then be eligible
for re-election by the Board itself. This is true of all
alumni-nominated trustees.

Other members of the Board are Dr. John Newton
‘Thomas of Richmond; Dr. Huston St. Clair of Surfside,
Fla., J. Stewart Buxton of Memphis, Joseph L. Lanier of
West Point, Ga., Judge John Minor Wisdom of New
Orleans, John F. Hendon of Birmingham, Joseph E. Bir-
nie of Atlanta, Lewis F. Powell, Jr. of Richmond, Joseph
T’. Lykes, Jr. of New Orleans, John M. Stemmons of
Dallas, Ross L. Malone of New York, Robert E. R.
Huntley of Lexington, John W. Warner of Washington,
D. C., Jack W. Warner of Tuscaloosa, John L. Crist, Jr.,
of Charlotte, Thomas C. Frost, Jr., of San Antonio,
and Isadore M. Scott of Meadowbrook, Pa.

WeL

—

@

qa

e. ts

Chapter News

NEW YORK. Officers and directors of the
chapter held a reception Sept. 2 in honor
of 36 incoming Washington and Lee
freshmen from the area. Alumni secretary
Bill Washburn represented the Univer-
sity, and a question-and-answer session fol-
lowed his slide presentation of the cam-
pus. Richard H. Turrell, ’49, president of
the Alumni Association, welcomed the
new freshmen.

WASHINGTON, D.C. Thirty-four incom-
ing freshmen were guests of the chapter
Sept. 2 at a luncheon that featured re-
marks by Washington and Lee student
body president Steve Robinson and Mock
Convention co-chairman Mike Campilon-
go. Alumni secretary Bill Washburn pre-
sented a slide show of the campus, and
he welcomed the new students and their
fathers.

CUMBERLAND VALLEY. One of the
largest gatherings of alumni in recent
years met Sept. 1 in Hagerstown, Md. to
welcome the area’s new freshmen and to
elect new officers for the year. Outgoing
president O. Thomas Kaylor, Jr., ’45, in-
troduced the new office holders: president
John B. Hoke, Jr., 60; vice president Clo-
vis M. Snyder, °51; secretary-treasurer
Charles R. Beall, ’56; and board of direc-
tors members Howard S. Kaylor, ’50;
Judge Robert E. Clapp, Jr., 30; John M.
McCardell, ’37; Sam C. Strite, ’29; R.
Noel Spence, ’56; and George I. Smith,
Jr., ’56. Alumni secretary Bill Washburn
was on hand to show slides of the campus
and welcome the new freshmen. The pres-
ence of John D. Zentmyer, ’07, highlighted
the meeting.

LOUISVILLE, KY.—Alumni entertained
incoming freshmen from the Louisville

December, 1971

area with a boat ride on the “Blues Cha-
ser” on August 31. The program was ar-
ranged by George Burks, ’27, and among
“Gus” Boden, ’52,
president of the chapter, Charles B. Cast-

the alumni were A. R.

ner, Jr.,
Davis, ’56, a past president. The boat be-

51, secretary-treasurer, and Mark

 

longs to Mark Davis’ father-in-law and is
equipped with a Barnum and Bailey
calliope. This affair has been an annual
one for the past several years and is at-
tended by many current students from
the Louisville area. Mark Davis supplied
the picture.

 

At the Cumberland Valley meeting (above)
are (Standing | to r) George I. Smith, Jr.,
56, R. Noel Spence, ’56, O. Thomas Kaylor,
‘45, Howard S. Kaylor, ’50, Clovis M.
Snyder, 51, John D. Zentmyer, ’07, John B.
Hoke, ’60, (seated) Robert E. Clapp, Jr.,
"30, Samuel C. Strite, ’29, Charles R. Beall,
°56, John M. McCardell, ’37.

Gus Boden, ’52, and Charles Castner, Jr.,
‘51, tootle a tune on the calliope aboard
the “Blues Chaser” at the Louisville meeting.

3]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee ee

-

 

—ediinn-gattensite nh

ee

eee

OE,

or

i“

oy

e

Dr. J. T. Fey, ’39

Fey was president of the University of
Wyoming and the University of Vermont be-
fore becoming president of National Life in
1966. He has been a director of the company
since 1962. Fey practiced law from 1946-1950,
was appointed professor of law at George
Washington University in 1949, and served as
dean of that law school from 1953 to 1956.
In 1956, he was named clerk of the U.S. Su-

‘preme Court and served in that capacity for

two years.

HEARTSELL RAGON, JR. has been elected presi-
dent of the United Savings Association in
Fort Smith, Ark. Ragon was formerly prose-
cuting attorney for the 12th Judicial District.
He is a past president of the Sebastian Coun-
ty Bar Association and the Arkansas Bar As-
sociation, and he is a former member of the
Board of Bar Examiners. He is a Fellow of
the American College of Trial Lawyers and
chairman of the Arkansas Justice Building
Commission. During his tenure as president
of the Arkansas Bar Association, Ragon estab-
lished the first annual Arkansas Oil and Gas
Institute.

1940

Dr. HANs A. SCHMITT has joined the Univer-
sity of Virginia faculty as professor of history.

1942

FreD T. Brom has been promoted to senior
vice president—loan administration—with the
First National Exchange Bank in Roanoke,
Va.

RoBerRT F. CAMPBELL became editor of The
Daily Times in Gainesville, Ga., effective
Oct. 11. He had served for two years as
executive director of the Race Relations
Information Center in Nashville, Tenn., and
for four years previously as executive director
of the Southern Education Reporting Service,
predecessor to the RRIC. Before that,
Campbell was editor of the editorial page
of the Winston-Salem Journal and Sentinel
and city editor of the Asheville Citizen. In
his work in Nashville, he directed a non-
profit organization which gathers and dis-
tributes information on race relations in the
nation. The work is supported by a grant
from the Ford Foundation.

1943

The board of directors of the American
Agency Management Bureau has elected
FRANK R. BELL, JR. to the post of president

December, 1971

 

R. F. CAMPBELL, ’42

and chief executive officer. The bureau is
an independently operated subsidiary of the
Hartford Insurance Group.

1944

The McDonogh School, a prep school near
Baltimore, Md., has named A. LUDLAM
MICHAUx, JR. to the newly created post of
president. His appointment by the trustees
of the school was effective October 1. During
the past two years, Michaux has coordinated
McDonogh’s development program.

1946

Dr. Davin LEwis, a practicing dentist and
former wrestling director of the Wheaton,
Md. Boys’ Club, has been named head wrest-
ling coach at Georgetown Preparatory School
in Rockville, Md.

1949

Dr. BEN HADEN, pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church in Chattanooga, Tenn., spoke
recently at a White House religious service.

JOsEPH B. MARTIN is employed by Allied
Chemical Corp. in Morristown, N.J. as man-
ager of employee relations for the agricultural
division.

RICHARD H. TurRRELL of Short Hills, N.J.,
president of the Washington and Lee Alumni
Association, has been appointed secretary of
the Fiduciary Trust Co. of New York. He
joined the firm in 1961 and had been a senior
vice president since 1968. He is also a direc-
tor of Lehigh Portland Cement Co., treasurer
and trustee of Simon’s Rock, Inc., and presi-
dent of the Millburn-Short Hills Men’s Re-
publican Club.

1950

The board of directors of the City National
Bank in Fort Smith, Ark. has announced the
election of ADRAIN WILLIAMSON, JR. as presi-
dent. Williamson, former vice president of
the Union National Bank in Little Rock, as-
sumed the new position on Sept. 1. Until
February, 1971, Williamson served as execu-
live director of the Arkansas Industrial De-
velopment Commission, under Gov. Dale
Bumpers and former Gov. Winthrop Rocke-
feller. For seven years prior to that, he was
an Officer of the Commercial National Bank
of Little Rock. He is active in state and
local economic development affairs.

Houston H. Harte, president of Express

 

of
F. R. BELL, JR., *43

 

N. L. Dosyns, 54

Publishing Co. of San Antonio, Tex., has be-
come chairman of the board of Harte-Hanks
Newspapers, Inc., which is composed of 17
daily newspapers, three weeklies, and one
television station.

195]

Lewis P. Co.uins, III has been named to the
Marion First National Bank board of direc-
tors. He is advertising manager of radio sta-
tion WMEV in Marion, Va.

Davip C. G. KERR, a Tampa attorney, has
been named to the board of governors of the
Florida Bar Association. He has served as a
member and chairman of the 13th Judicial
Grievance Committee.

Dr. Bruce L. HUNTworK has begun a new
assignment as clinical surgical instructor at
the Jundi Shapur University Medical School
Hospital in Ahwaz, Khuzistan (Iran). He was
ordained last spring in the Meshed Church.

1952

Horace W. DIETRICH, JR., who for the past
16 years has been a sales associate with Diet-
rich Brothers, Inc., a Baltimore steel and iron
firm, has joined the real estate firm of W. C.
Pinkard & Co., Inc. Dietrich will join the
industrial sales staff.

1953

RoBerT I. GOODMAN is president of his own
general insurance agency in Clifton Park,
N.Y. He is also president of London Square
Associates, a land development firm.

1954

NorMAN L. DoByns has been appointed vice
president of government relations for the
American Can Co. He will continue to be
headquartered in the company’s Washington,
D.C. office. Dobyns joined American Can in
1967 as manager of public relations—govern-
ment and international. He was previously
administrative assistant to Congressman Tho-
mas N. Downing of Virginia.

Bruce R. KING, JR., vice president of the
Richmond Corp., has been named director of
the Insurance Management Corporation. He
is also a director of Southern Bankshares, Inc.

1955

Virginia Gov. LINwoop HOLTON has appoint-

33

eee ——

 

incl tapenade

 

 

o>

=

ay

assistant trust officer of the Central National
Bank in Richmond, Va. He joined the bank
in 1967 as a management trainee and has
worked in various areas of the bank. In De-
cember, 1970, he was assigned to the trust
department. Dennison is a member of the
West End Citizens Association and the Ameri-
can Institute of Banking.

Houston L. BELL, JR., formerly an admini-
strative resident, has been appointed assis-
tant director of Roanoke Memorial Hospital.

F. Scort KENNEDY has returned from a post-
Coctoral study at Oxford, England, and he
is now a post-doctoral research fellow in the
Harvard School of Medicine.

RALPH FULLER joined the staff of the Univer-
sity of Virginia’s department of public affairs
on Sept. 1. Fuller formerly was a Richmond
Times-Dispatch reporter, and most recently
headed the newspaper’s Williamsburg bureau.

1967

After three years with the Navy on a de-
stroyer with the Atlantic Fleet and one year
in traveling which included some time on a
Greek merchant ship, GrorcE N. STAMAs has
now returned to New York City where he is
working for the Wall Street insurance bro-
kerage firm of Johnson & Higgins.

ANDREW M. RarING, a graduate student in the
department of geological sciences at Lehigh
University, has been awarded a grant from
the National Science Foundation to support
research for his doctoral dissertation in en-
vironmental sciences.

After receiving the Ph.D. in chemistry from
Pennsylvania State University, Nem D. Jes-
PERSEN is now employed as assistant professor
of chemistry, analytical section, at the Uni-
versity of ‘Texas in Austin.

1968

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Craic H. BARLEY, a
son, Matthew Thomas, on Feb. 4. With the
Caterpillar Tractor Co., Barley has been
transferred to a management position in
data processing at the company’s Morton, III.
parts department.

C. HowarpD CAPiTo is now living in Louis-
ville, where he is working for the Norfolk &
Western Railway Co. in an area sales office.
He expects to enter the management train-
ing program soon.

December, 1971

Howarp L. MocerrF has been admitted to the
Kentucky Bar Association and is licensed to
practice by the Kentucky Court of Appeals.
He is currently working as an attorney for
the National Labor Relations Board in Cin-
cinnati, Ohio.

After two years with the New York state De-
partment of Social Service, EDwarp B. MIT-
CHELL has become a rehabilitation counselor
with the Narcotic Addiction Control Com-
mission at Woodbourne, N.Y.

PAUL M. NEVILLE was named a 1970-71 fellow
in the Institute of Politics in Mississippi.

KENNETH M. FINK is in his senior year of
medical school at West Virginia University
School of Medicine. In addition to course
studies he expects to be assigned work at the
Beckley Appalachian Regional Hospital, the
Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn, the
National Institute of Health in Bethesda, and
the San Francisco General Hospital.

D. JOHN GODEHN, at Bowman Gray School of
Medicine, has been elected to Alpha Omega
Alpha, a national medical honor society.

1969

MARRIED: Marc A. SCHEWEL to Betty Jane
Rau on Aug. 15 in Highland Park, II.

MARRIED: Robert M. HENEs to Barbara L.
Freiwald on July 17.

ARTHUR S. LoRING has been elected case editor
of the law review of Boston University School

of Law.
1970

MARRIED: LAWRENCE Epwarp HONIG to
Charlotte Ellenor Stokes of Atlanta on Aug.
7. Among the groomsmen: Rosert H. YEVICH,
‘70; REED B. ByruM, ’70; REEVE W. KELSEY,
"70; ROBERT S. KEEFE, ’68.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL S. CoLo, a
son, Christian Anthony, on May 5. Colo is
practicing law in Rocky Mount, N.C.

The South Arkansas Arts Center in Little
Rock conducted in September a sculpture
show by Robert C. LEE. Lee recently studied
under Peter Wreden of the University of
Virginia and Lester Van Winkle of Virginia
Commonwealth University. In June, 1971, he
received a finalist award in the annual Side-
walk Art Show in Roanoke, Va. This was his
first showing in his home state of Arkansas.

After a one-year clerkship with Judge Roszel

C. Thomsen of the U.S. District Court in
Baltimore, ROBERT B. TAYLOR is now associat-
ed with the law firm of Adkins, Potts, &
Smethurst in Salisbury, Md.

1971

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN THOMAS PRo-
VINCE, a daughter, Sarah Ellen, on Sept. 30.
Province is practicing law in Madison, Va.

 

In Memoriam

 

1907

‘THEODORE B. BENSON, a retired tax lawyer,
died Sept. 2 in Silver Spring, Md. Benson,
who practiced law in Washington, retired
about 25 years ago.

1908

BENJAMIN ‘THORNTON SMITH, a native of
Lynchburg, died in the Veteran’s Hospital in
September. A veteran of World War I, Smith

was a retired accountant.

1911

PIERCE ByRON LANTz, an attorney and a for-
mer assistant state fire marshall, died April 6
in Charleston, W.Va.

HARVEY ‘BUTLER FERGUSSON, JR., a novelist,
died Aug. 29. He was an editor in New York
for the F. J. Haskin newspaper syndicate
from 1914 to 1923, then worked as a free-
lance writer in New York City until 1932. At
various times, he was a screenwriter for
20th Century-Fox, Paramount, Metro-Gold-
wyn-Mayer, and Columbia.

1913

SAMUEL W. MaytTupsy of Oklahoma City,
Okla., a former county judge of Bryan Coun-
ty, died Aug. 21. A veteran of World War I,
Maytubby practiced law for many years in
Caddo and Durant, and he served as judge
of Bryan County for several terms.

1914

Joun L. HuGuHeEs, former municipal judge in
Benton, Ark., died Aug. 4. Hughes practiced
Jaw in Benton from 1914 until 1969. He was
a member of the Saline County Bar Associa-

: 1919

Gus ALEX FRITCHIE, judge of the city of Sli-

35

 

 

“Scott County (Va,)
‘ations, and he was

‘RICHARD J. PAYNE, jr, |
- cantile Trust Co. of St.

 

 

 

 

 

soe

WASHINGTON

AND LEE
(Oeveuexe

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
| Lexington, Virginia 24450 W

& THE MCCORMICK LIBRARY

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIV
LEXINGTON VA
24450

 

 

COMMEMORATIVE
Oeu a

 

 

 

