 

 

 

 

el

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 51, Number 5, July 1976

William C. Washburn, 740...00000000000000...coooooocceccccccceeee. Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman...................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68............000..ccceceeeeee. Associate Editor
Joyce Carter, Jan Shivel.....00.00000..... Editorial Assistants
Sally Mann ooo... iccccccecceeccseeseeesecssestesceseens Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Commencement 1976 00.0.0... IT
Symposium on Religious Pluralism ........................ 5
The University Theatre 00.00.0000... 10
Chemical Education at W&L ooo 16
Lee-Jackson House Restoration .............00..0.......0... 21
Spring Sports Roundup ...........0..0.00c cece 22
Campus Briefs 0.00.00... coco 24
Chapter News oooiooioiicecccccccccccccsceecseevesevesevteseveseens 26
GTASS NOUS. 50. sags. s Bene eee ta yetintedhngecesmncvbaesagereteaberts 27
Tr Memoriam ii... ccececteeeteereeens 31

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

THomas B. BrAncH III, 758, Atlanta, Ga.
President

J. THomas Toucuton, ’60, ‘Tampa, Fla.
Vice President

CHARLES C. STIEeFF II, 45, Baltimore, Md.
Treasurer

WILLiAM C. WasuHBurn, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, ’63, Columbus, Ohio
Puitie R. CAMPBELL, 757, Tulsa, Okla.
SAMUEL C. DupbLeEy, 758, Richmond, Va.

EpwIn J. Fo.tz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.

Marion G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. HO tis, 51, Memphis, Tenn.

CourTNEY R. Mauzy Jr., ’61, Raleigh, N.C.

Jerry G. Soutu, ’54, San Francisco, Calif.
RoBERT M. WHITE II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.

ON THE COVER: One of the lighter moments
from the University ‘Theatre’s production of 1776, a
unique musical combining elements of history,
drama, and comedy. Left to right are Charles Harer,
a Lexington C.P.A., as Benjamin Franklin, Dan
Scott, ‘77, as Richard Henry Lee, and Rob Mish,
76, as John Adams. For more on drama at W&L, see
Page 10. Photo by W. Patrick Hinely, ’73.

 

 

 

Degrees are awarded to 364 students;

two alumni, two friends honored

Washington and Lee conferred under-
graduate and law degrees on 364 men and
women—and honorary doctorates on two
alumni and three other persons with
close ties to W&L—in commencement
ceremonies marking the end of its 226th
academic year.

The honorary degrees were awarded
to Mrs. Anne Legendre Armstrong,
American ambassador to Britain and
mother of a 1975 W&L graduate; Lea
Booth, executive director of the Virginia
Foundation for Independent Colleges;
Lieut. Gen. Richard L. Irby, superinten-
dent of next-door Virginia Military In-
stitute; Roger Mudd, CBS News reporter,
and Howard Nemerov, the poet, novelist,
and essayist who is a frequent visiting
lecturer at W&L. Booth is a 1940 Wash-
ington and Lee graduate; Mudd received
his B.A. 10 years later.

It had rained in Lexington all week,
and as a result the ground was too soggy
to permit the graduation to take place
outdoors on the historic Front Campus.
So for the second time in recent memory
(the first came in 1974), the exercises were
moved into the new Doremus Gym bas-
ketball arena.

Commencement-week activities began
with the traditional baccalaureate sermon,
delivered this year by Dr. Louis W.
Hodges, director of Washington and Lee’s
Society and the Professions ethics pro-
gram. The “one hope” for civilization,
Dr. Hodges told graduating students and
their families, is rejection of the currently
fashionable reliance on authoritarianism
and blind intuition and adoption in its
place of a “moral realism” based on rec-
ognizing “the needs of human beings as
the final standard for distinguishing
right and wrong.”

Said Dr. Hodges: “We are not even
confident about where to look and how to
proceed” in establishing guidelines for
right conduct. ““The question for us is not
merely by what principles we should live,
but rather where we may turn to discover
them,”

Authoritarianism—one of the “popu-

 

The recessional march after the baccalaureate service.

lar but essentially poverty-stricken” at-
tempts at an answer—encourages an in-
dividual to shift that responsibility to
some other source, “to project it onto an
external agent,” he said. Similarly, “in-
tuitionism . . . leads us to abandon rea-
soned inquiry in favor of merely affirm-

ing the content of our own minds,” one’s
“Inner consciousness.”

But it is “naive and simple-minded,”
Dr. Hodges declared, “to believe the
world can long endure if we guide our-
selves merely by our intuitions or by our
several authorities.” In his view, ‘moral

I

Commencement 1976

 

Roger Mudd

realism’ is the basis, for example, of the
New Testament, the Declaration of In-
dependence, and even Washington and
Lee’s Honor System—placing one’s trust
in the belief that whatever frustrates ef-
forts to meet the “real needs’ of people
is “evil or morally wrong.”

“Moral realism” will not “itself solve
all the problems of morality,” Dr.
Hodges acknowledged. “But it does pro-
vide us with clear guidance and a sharp
standard.” ‘The choices will not be any
easier, he said, “but the standard for
making them is firm and defensible.”

In Reserve Officer Training Corps
commissioning ceremonies in Lee Chapel,
Maj. Gen, Charles $. LeCraw told grad-
uating cadets “the American people can
be relied on to reach a sound conclusion”
when they are presented with complete
and accurate facts. “The international
threat” facing the United States shows
“no sign of dissipating,” he said. But “if
we level with the people of America, we
may yet bring about peace.” He de-
clared that a “strong, resilient army”
will be a major element in that effort.

Gen. LeCraw, special assistant to the
deputy chief of staff for logistics, told the
graduating cadets that their future in

2

Howard Nemerov

the armed service and their oath to
“protect and defend” the nation are re-
flected in:.“‘two four-letter words’—flag
and army, the symbol of their pledge and
the mechanism through which they will
honor it.

In all, 14 W&L seniors were com-
missioned as second lieutenants during
the ceremony. Seven of them—including
Gen. LeCraw’s son Scott—were designat-
ed distinguished military graduates.

In his remarks to the new graduates,
President Robert E. R. Huntley challeng-
ed critics of liberal-arts education who
demand that it justify itself in dollars-
and-cents terms. That, Huntley said, is
the fallacy of the “rational solipsist .. .
the counterpart and companion of the
moral solipsist’” toward whom part of
Dr. Hodges’ baccalaureate sermon had
been addressed.

“Increasingly these days,” Huntley
remarked, “a college or university which
seriously pursues the liberal-arts tradi-
tion as its organizing theme is called
upon to justify its existence, to account
for itself. In a world where the educator
is being pushed into the roles of a pur-
veyor of so-called marketable skills, the
holder of a degree from a liberal-arts in-

 

Anne L. Armstrong

stitution is often asked: ‘Now that you’ve
got it, what are you going to do with it?’
It’s a rude question—and whenever I’m
asked it, there’s a mighty temptation to
give a rude answer. For example: ‘My
dear sir (or madam), persons who ask
such a question demonstrate their inabil-
ity to understand the answer.’

‘What the world seems to want from
us is a one-liner, some single pithy state-
ment of our reason for existence,” he said.
“No longer will it do to present a several-
page statement of purpose, however mas-
terfully drafted. No one will read it—at
least not anyone who needs to. And the
very fact that it’s not in slogan form
will make it suspect.

“So how about this for a one-liner:
‘We exist to stamp out solipsism.’ There
are several disadvantages, I suppose.
Hardly anyone will understand—but not
many will want to admit that. It has a
kind of negative ring to it—but in the
era of the anti-hero, perhaps that’s an
advantage. And you'll have to admit that
it does have most of the qualities of a
conversation-stopper.

‘“. . . I suggest another slogan to de-
scribe our purpose. Our purpose is edu-
cation. And if it should happen that in-

 

A
Lea Booth

stitutions which are not ashamed to pro-
claim that as their purpose should vanish
from our nation, then may God have
mercy on whatever remains.”

Special honors announced by Presi-
dent Huntley at commencement includ-
ed the designation of two valedictorians
—both of whom earned perfect 4.0 grade
averages every term during their four
years at Washington and Lee: Carey D.
Chisholm, a pre-med biology major from
Alexandria, and Keith J. Crocker, an
economics major from Stafford, Va.

The Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medal-
lion, awarded by vote of the faculty to
the graduating student who has excelled
“in high ideals of living, in spiritual
qualities, and in generous and disinter-
ested service to others,” was presented to
Thomas P. Hudgins Jr. of Mathews, Va.
Hudgins, a Phi Beta Kappa graduate in
English, was assistant head dormitory
counselor and was active in a number of
civic and charitable activities while at
W&L, among them his annual Thanks-
giving one-man marathon on WLUR-FM,
when area merchants and others pledg-
ed sums of money for each hour he stayed
on the air. Last fall he raised $2,800 for
indigent Rockbridge area families by

   

|

Lieut. Gen. Richard L. Irby

broadcasting for 40 hours straight on the
campus Station.

The Frank J. Gilliam Award, the chief
honor that can be conferred on a graduat-
ing student by his peers, was presented
to J. Michael Luttig of Tyler, Texas,
president last year of the W&L chapter
of Omicron Delta Kappa and secretary
of the Student Body. The Gilliam Award
recognizes the student “who has made
the most valuable contribution to student
life at W&L.” Luttig was also a dormi-
tory counselor, president of the Pre-Law
Society, a student representative to the
faculty Courses and Degrees Committee,
and a participant in the Lexington Big
Brothers program.

Lea Booth has been executive director
of the Virginia Foundation for Indepen-
dent Colleges (VFIC) since 1953. The
VFIC is a joint fund-raising effort spon-
sored by 12 of Virginia’s four-year private
colleges, and last year it raised $1.3 mil-
lion which was shared among them pro-
portionally. Of the 40 similar college
funds in America, the’ VFIC currently
provides the largest amount-per-student
of any.

Booth worked as a newspaper report-
er, public-relations director and assistant

journalism professor at Washington and
Lee, United Press correspondent, and
chief clerk and staff director for the U.S.
House of Representatives Administration
Committee before being named the
VFIC’s first executive director 23 years
ago.

Gen. Irby has been superintendent
of V.M.I. since 1971, when he ended a
32-year military career to become the 10th
chief executive of his alma mater. He
is a native of Blackstone and majored in
engineering at V.M.I. Irby began his
army career immediately after gradua-
tion in 1939, and eventually rose from
troop commander during the early stages
of World War II to commanding gen-
eral.

He is a graduate of the Army’s Com-
mand and General Staff College and also
holds the master’s degree in international
affairs from George Washington Univer-
sity. His decorations include the Distin-
guished Service Medal and two Silver
Stars. He was commanding general at
Fort Knox, Ky., when he was named to
become VMI’s superintendent.

Mudd received his B.A. degree from
W&L in English, and his master’s degree
in American history from the University
of North Carolina. He taught history and
English at the Darlington School, Rome,
Ga., for a year and worked as a research
assistant for the House Committee on
Tax-Exempt Foundations for: another
year.

He began his career in journalism as
a reporter for the Richmond News Lead-
er and for three years was news director
of its radio station, WRNL. In 1956 he
joined the news staff of WTOP, the CBS
radio and television affiliates in Wash-
ington, D. C., and five years later became
a reporter for CBS News.

He has been anchorman of CBS-TV’s
weekend evening news broadcasts and
frequently substitutes for Walter Cronkite
on the weekday news. He has also been
anchorman or reporter on a large num-
ber of CBS specials and documentaries,
including “The Embattled President,”

3

Commencement 1976

 

“The Senate and the Watergate Affair,”
and “The Selling of the Pentagon.”

Nemerov is among the nation’s lead-
ing men of letters. He is the author of
nine volumes of verse, five of fiction, and
three of essays, and has won a number
of awards and fellowships, including a
National Institute of Arts and Letters
grant in 1961, a Guggenheim in 1969,
and an Academy of American Poets fel-
lowship in 1971. During the past aca-
demic year he was Phi Beta Kappa visit-
ing scholar at W&L and a number of
other American colleges and universities.

He has taught at Hollins, Benning-
ton, Hamilton, Brandeis and Minnesota,
and in 1963-64 was the Library of Con-
gress consultant in poetry.

He has been a frequent lecturer at

Washington and Lee under a variety of

visiting-scholar programs.

Before being named ambassador to
the Court of St. James’s early this year,
Mrs. Armstrong had been co-chairman of
the Republican party, and from 1973 un-
til December 1974 was counselor to the
President with Cabinet status, the high-
est position in government held by a
woman at the time. In that capacity she
was a member of the Domestic Council,
the Wage and Price Stability Council,
and other federal agencies, and under
her direction the first Office of Wo-
men’s Programs in the White House was
established.

One of Mrs. Armstrong’s predecessors
as American ambassador to England was
John W. Davis, who held the post from

1918 to 1921. Davis, who earned both his
undergraduate and law degrees from
W&L, was a long-time member of the
University’s Board of Trustees. In 1924,
he was the Democratic candidate for
President of the United States.

Mrs. Armstrong is a Phi Beta Kappa
graduate of Vassar College and is married
to Tobin Armstrong of Texas. Their
oldest son, Barclay, was graduated from
Washington and Lee last year.

Booth, Irby, Mudd and Nemerov were
on hand to receive their honorary de-
grees. Mrs. Armstrong was with Queen
Elizabeth on graduation day, but custom
at W&L provides that an honorary de-
gree may be conferred in absentia if the
recipient is out of the country on busi-
ness of state.

 

GRADUATING SONS OF ALUMNI

Thirty-eight sons of alumni received
degrees this year. They and their fathers
are listed below:

Campbell Huxley Brown, B.A.
Edward Brown Jr., ’40
Charles Lynch Christian III, J.D.
Charles Lynch Christian Jr., ’44
Thomas Hal Clarke Jr., J.D.
T. Hal Clarke, ’38
William Randolph Cogar, B.A,
William Rea Cogar, ’51
William P. Coleman Jr., B.A.
W. Patrick Coleman Sr., ’33 (Deceased)
Paul Bowen Cromelin III, B.A.
Paul B. Cromelin Jr., "49
Chris J. Dempsher, B.S.
John Dempsher, ’42
Alan P. Dozier, B.A.
John W. Dozier, 52
Luther H., Dudley II, B.A.
E. Waller Dudley, ’43
Douglas M. Faris, B.S.
E. McGruder Faris Jr., ’51
D. Scott Farrar, B.A.
James D. Farrar, ’49
Laurence P. Hobbes, B.S.
Alan B. Hobbes, ’39

4

William Benjamin Hopkins Jr., B.A.
W. B. Hopkins Sr., ’42
Walton W. Kingsbery III, B.A.
W. W. Kingsbery Jr., ’48
Brian M. Levine, B.S.
Lester I. Levine, ’51
Harry L. McCarthy II, B.S.
Harry L. McCarthy, ’32
Thomas K. McClellan, B.A.
Thomas G, McClellan Jr., ’48
Douglas W. McRae, B.A.
Floyd W. McRae, 45
Kenneth G. MacDonald Jr., B.S.
Kenneth G. MacDonald Sr., ’36
Robert G. Metcalf, B.A.
Wilbur S. Metcalf, ’40
Robert W. H. Mish III, B.A.
Robert W. H. Mish Jr., "46
William H. Moomaw Jr., B.A.
William H. Moomaw, °49
Timothy T. Moore, B.A.
Tom Moore Jr., ’45
Spencer W. Morten III, B.A.
Spencer W. Morten Jr., ’49
Paul J. B. Murphy III, B.A.
Paul J. B. Murphy Jr., ’49

Cary E. Patrick Jr., B.A.
Cary E. Patrick, ’35

William W. Pifer, B.S.
William H. Pifer, ’47

Albert Atlee Radcliffe III, B.S.
A. A. Radcliffe Jr., ’37

Parke Shepherd Rouse III, B.S.
Parke S. Rouse Jr., ’37

Henry W. Semple, B.A.
Charles H. Semple Jr., ’39

‘Robert James Smith Jr., B.A.

Robert J. Smith, ’46
Scott Thomas Vaughn, J.D.
E. Sidney Vaughn Jr., ’38
Joseph Walker II, B.S.
Claude M. Walker, ’41
Clifford L. Walters III, J.D.
Clifford L. Walters Jr., ’42
David C, Warren, B.S.
Connie Kearfott Warren Jr., ’49
Harry W. Wellford Jr., B.A.
Harry W. Wellford, ’46
James Arthur Wood III, B.A.
J. Arthur Wood Jr., ’50
Richard T. Wright Jr., B.A.
Richard T. Wright, ’42

by Minor L. Rogers

Assistant Professor of Religion

Symposium in religious pluralism
is a ‘moment in church history’

 

The symposium, “Christian Faith in a Religiously Plural
World,’ was held on the Washington and Lee campus April
22-24. It was sponsored jointly by the Washington and Lee
religion department and the Center for the Study of World
Religions, Harvard University, under auspices of the Philip
Fullerton Howerton Fund. The fund was established at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1973 by Mrs. Philip Howerton as a me-
mortal to her late husband, an alumnus of WeL, to support
special programs in the religion department. Generous sup-
port was also received from the Fund for the Study of the
Great Religions of the World, Colgate University. Symposium
co-chairmen were David W. Sprunt, head of the WeL religion
department; John B. Carman, professor of comparative re-
ligion and director of the Center for the Study of World Re-
ligtons, Harvard University, and Donald G. Dawe, professor
of systematic theology, Union Theological Seminary in Vir-
ginia,

The time will soon be with us when a theologian who at-
tempts to work out his position unaware that he does so as
a member of a world society in which other theologians
equally intelligent, equally devout, equally moral, are
Hindus, Buddhists, Muslims, and unaware that his readers
are likely perhaps to be Buddhists or to have Muslim hus-
bands or Hindu colleagues—such a theologian is as out of
date as is one who attempts to construct an intellectual
position unaware that Aristotle has thought about the world
or that existentialists have raised new orientations, or un-
aware that the earth is a minor planet in a galaxy that is
vast only by terrestrial standards.

From a lecture, “The Christian in a Religiously
Plural World,” by Wilfred Cantwell Smith, 1961.

The distinguishing mark of this Symposium was that Chris-
tians concerned with a specifically Christian problem—the di-
lemma of finding new ways for the Christian community to
relate the particularity and universality of its faith—decided
to invite members of other communities—a Jew, a Muslim, a
Hindu, and a Buddhist—to work with them on a solution. The
planning committee for the symposium selected 10 leaders
whom they believed to be the most qualified to share this
task; each of them accepted the invitation. A brochure invit-
ing participants to the symposium noted: “The time has come
to face the challenges—theological, intellectual, and moral—
posed by the increasing awareness of mankind’s religious di-
versity. The theme of this symposium, ‘Christian Faith in a
Religiously Plural World,’ expresses our conviction that these
challenges are of critical importance not only for Christian
theologians but also for scholars in religious studies and for
all people of faith who are concerned with the building of
world community.”

I. Mahinda Palihawadana, a Buddhist and professor of

5

Symposium on Religious Pluralism

 

Sanskrit at the University of Sri Lanka (Ceylon), arrived in
Lexington only minutes before an evening meeting was to
begin with nine other symposium leaders. He joined religious
thinkers representing the Hindu, Jewish, and Muslim tradi-
tions as well as Protestant and Catholic Christians at the Lee
House for preliminary discussions in preparation for the three-
day series of public addresses, formal responses, and seminars
which were to begin on the following evening. Dr. Palihawa-
dana, as the Buddhist representative, had come the farthest
distance; K. L. Seshagiri Rao, professor of religious studies
at the University of Virginia, invited to give a Hindu re-
sponse, had come the shortest. The symposium leaders were
able to spend a day together in informal discussions before
the series of public sessions began; they were no longer strang-
ers to each other when they gathered on the podium in Lee
Chapel to hear Donald G. Dawe, professor of systematic
theology, Union Theological Seminary in Virginia, give the
opening address, “Christian Faith in a Religiously Plural
World.”

II. ‘The Chapel was filled with students, faculty, members
of the local community, and more than a hundred visitors
who had pre-registered for the symposium, including scholars
in religious studies from the Eastern United States and Can-
ada; representatives of seven seminaries from Kansas City to
New York; and members of Baptist, United Church of Can-
ada, Methodist, Lutheran, Presbyterian, and Catholic organiza-
tions and missionary boards. Dr. Dawe put the issue before the
Christian community as that of reconciling the historic: Chris-
tian doctrine of the “universality of Christian faith” with “the
incurable religious pluralism of the world”; further, he noted
that “all claims to universality have to be related to the fact
that no particular religion will be the sole religion of human-
kind.”

In offering a fresh analysis of the covenant traditions of
Christianity as a means of dealing in new ways with the
historical particularity of the incarnation and the universality
of Christianity, Dawe saw three motifs emerge for considera-
tion: (1) the rethinking of the nature of monotheism; (2) the
disclosure of the nature of God’s redemptive work; and (3) the
translation of Jesus’ name. He concluded:

The Christian religion will receive new life when it is
willing to die to the demonic forms its claims to finality
have taken. It will then enter fully into the power of the
“name of Jesus.” Christians must be willing to accept the
death of their ideologies to enter into the resurrection of
new being.

On the following morning, formal responses were made to
Dr. Dawe’s theological statement by the Buddhist, Hindu,
Jewish, and Muslim representatives. Without exception, the
respondents expressed appreciation for his efforts as a Chris-
tian theologian to make a re-examination of Christian faith in
the context of a religiously plural world. They recognized the
moral and intellectual dimensions of the dilemma presented
for the Christian community by its doctrinal formulations. At

6

 

Dr. Donald G. Dawe, professor of systematic theol-
ogy at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond,
presented a major address at the symposium.

 

Dr. Mahinda Palihawadana, professor of
Sanskrit at the University of Sri Lanka
(Ceylon), gave the Buddhist response to Dr.
Dawe’s address.

the same time, they had serious questions to raise in their
responses.

Mahinda Palihawadana, while welcoming Dawe’s conclud-
ing statement that “Christians must be willing to accept
the death of their ideologies to enter into the resurrection of
new being,” went on to ask: “Does it also not lie among the
possibilities within Christianity to replace its predilection for
institutional power with a preference for real spiritual power,
which one must suppose was the source of its original
strength?” K. L. Seshagiri Rao, noting that Dawe had de-
plored the attitude of “Christian triumphalism,” pointed out
that even today, “Western Christians do not often fully realize
the enormous cultural and national pressures faced by Chris-
tian minorities in Asia and Africa. . . . It is the manner in
which Jesus Christ is communicated that creates religious dis-
sension, not Jesus Christ Himself.”

Fazlur Rahman, University of Chicago, reviewed Islamic
attitudes towards Christianity, in particular how Jesus is view-
ed in the Qur’an. Rahman concluded his response: ‘But I
believe something can be still worked out by way of positive
cooperation provided the Muslims hearken more to the Qur’an
than to the historic formulations of Islam and provided that
the pioneering efforts like that of Prof. Donald Dawe con-
tinue to yield a Christian doctrine more compatible with
universal monotheism and egalitarianism.”

Eugene B. Borowitz, in his response, ‘““The Lure and Limits
of Universalizing Our Faith,” saw no way to resolve the para-
dox of his simultaneous Jewish particularism and universalism
or to relieve himself of the need in each decision not to trans-
gress against either of his commitments, but that “paradox is
the sign of expulsion from Eden and only in the new Eden
will it finally be taken from us.”

III. In the evening, the second major address, “Religion
as a Problem for Christian Theology,” was given by John B.
Carman, professor of comparative religion, Harvard Univer-
sity, to which three Christian theologians were to respond on
the following morning. One participant, noting the structure
of the symposium, pointed out that it would have been more
obvious and probably easier for all concerned to have had Dr.
Dawe’s theological statement commented on by theologians
and Dr. Carman’s comparative religion paper by the non-Chris-
tian panel. However, he welcomed the “inconsistency” be-
cause it meant that the theologian knew that he must make
himself clear to Jews, Hindus, Muslims, and Buddhists, and
the comparative religionist knew that his statement must be
cogent to Christian theologians.

John Carman outlined the history of the concept of re-
ligion, noting that religion is not a Biblical concept and that
there are limits to its usefulness in the theological enterprise:

The particular word we choose to use as the most general
concept is of less concern to Christian theologians than the
presence in their thinking of a concept that links them as
directly and deeply as possible to all of humanity outside
the Christian community. . . . It is the confidence in our
common humanity that underlies the concept of religion.

 

Dr. K. L. Seshagiri Rao, professor of religious
studies at the University of Virginia and
former chairman of religious studies at
Punjabi University, India, spoke from the
Hindu viewpoint.

 

Dr. Fazlur Rahman, professor in the Department
of New Eastern Languages and Civilizations at
Chicago University, presented the Muslim point
of view.

   

Dr. Eugene B. Borowitz, professor of education and
Jewish religious thought at Hebrew Union College-
Jewish Institute, New York, gave the Jewish viewpoint.

Symposium on Religious Pluralism

 

Whether the concept is useful depends on whether it can
point to a common human reality.

He saw the Christian theologian as having to attend to both
the universal and the particular, a double task: “to find in
our common humanity the basis of an ever new translation of
the good news of God, and to trace the history of God’s choice
of a special People sustained in order to work for the healing
of all Nations.”

Gerald Anderson, identifying himself as a missiologist com-
mitted to the study and practice of Christian mission, affirm-
ed that it is outside the preacher’s competence or commission
to pass judgment on what others claim to be their experience
of salvation and that, ‘““My only business is to invite them
to acknowledge Jesus Christ as their Savior.” He granted that
Western Christians, in particular, must be increasingly open to
refinements of our Western concepts by Christians in Asia,
Africa, or even Latin America.

Charles P. Price, a professor of systematic theology, in his
response, “Religion and Revelation,” said that he was struck
most forcibly by John Carman’s insistence on the unity of man-
kind. He suggested that the concept which links us as directly
and deeply as possible to all mankind is revelation, “. . . the
Divine Word, the Logos, which is the great theological ex-
pression of God’s revelation of himself to us.’

Brother David, a Benedictine monk, stated that he had
become acquainted with other religions because he first be-
came acquainted with monks of other traditions, Hindu and
Buddhist; he discovered that he had much more in common
with them than with his co-religionists who were not monks.
Further, he saw no solutions to the dilemma of universalism
being found by discussing religion, but only by being reli-
gious: ““. . . only when we have gone beyond [Christian ex-
clusivism], and this going beyond is a real participation in
Christ’s death and resurrection, will we recognize that now we
are the true Kingdom of God.”

IV. At the final session, Wilfred Cantwell Smith, profes-
sor of religion, Dalhousie University, spoke from notes of his
observations of what had been taking place at the symposium,
“An Historian of Faith Reflects On What We Are Doing
Here.” He said:

This symposium, on which I have been asked to comment,
strikes me, first of all, as a moment in Christian Church
history, and not the most important moment in that history
of this century, even of this year, but not the least important,
either. In fact, I think the significance of this moment
through which we have been living has probably struck
most all of us. I find it significant, not only because of
what has been said by the speakers, .. . but also, and in some
ways, first, by the audience that has gathered. Mission secre-
taries, townspeople, clergy, academics, lay folk, students,
religious leaders, religious followers, religious inquirers,
religious observers, a great company of us have gathered
with, I think, a striking engagement. It has seemed to me that
we have all, or almost all, participated in this occasion with
a remarkable degree of excitement, or if that’s too strong a

 

Dr. John B. Carman, professor of comparative religion and
director of the Center for the Study of World Religions,
Harvard University, gave the second major address

of the symposium.

 

Dr. Gerald H. Anderson, director-designate
of the Overseas Ministries Study Center, Vent-
nor, N.J., responded to Dr. Carman’s address.

 

 

Dr. Charles P. Price, professor of systematic
theology at the Protestant Episcopal
Seminary in Virginia, also responded

to Dr. Carman.

word, certainly with something that has stirred us. Some
few, I think, have been taken aback at what they have seen
going on here. We have heard a few expressions of perplex-
ity or concern, and that is fine for not everything that has
happened in Church history has been or will be good, and
not all Christians have agreed, by any means, as to which
things were good and which were not. And anything as—if I
be at all right, that this is significant—anything as significant
as this, will certainly elicit differing responses from various
Christians. Some few, then, have been, as I said, concerned;
most, I think, have been excited; and all, I guess, have been
impressed.

He then reminded the audience that the symposium was taken
at Christian initiative to deal with a Christian problem—the
dilemma or paradox of universality*; that what was different
about the symposium was that a group of Christians con-
cerned with a specifically Christian problem had decided to in-
vite members of other communities to help solve this dilemma.
He commented:

That was striking enough. That has not often happened.
More striking was the fact that they came and they did help.
It is a fact that their contributions have illuminated for
Christians a Christian problem. Still more striking was that
this was seen to take place. We have sat through an occasion
in which we have seen ourselves being helped in a specifically
Christian issue, by inviting and receiving the concern of
fellow human beings, to use an old and, I think, out-dated
phrase, “from the outside.”

V. Many people in the University community gave gener-
ously of their time and effort in welcoming our guests from
far and near. A number of students participated actively in
all phases of the symposium; there were opportunities for a
leisurely exchange of ideas with both the symposium leaders
and the visiting scholars.

We discovered that indeed the subject of religious plural-
ism does engage the interest of members of widely diverse
groups in the contemporary world. The symposium addresses
and responses, in addition to several papers on ‘“‘Selected
Topics for a Religiously Plural World,” presented at a series
of seminars, are now being edited by Drs. Dawe and Carman
for early publication as a book. A follow-up symposium has
been proposed for 1977, to be co-sponsored by two major Prot-
estant seminaries and the Overseas Ministries Study Center
directed by Dr. Anderson. It is anticipated that on that occa-
sion, Christian theologians who are natives of Asia, Latin
America and Africa will be invited to join in and carry for-
ward the conversations begun at the symposium recently held
at Washington and Lee.

 

*Members of the Buddhist tradition have designated such di-
lemmas or paradoxes as koan (Japanese). A koan is a puzzling,
probing question to which, on first inspection, there is no con-
ceivable solution. The experience of the Buddhist community has
been that through sustained concentration and deep reflection,
humility and ultimately wisdom are found.

 

Dr. Wilfred Cantwell Smith, professor of re-
ligion at Dalhousie University, Nova Scotia,
and former director of Harvard’s Center for
the Study of World Religions, closed the sym-
posium with an address: “An Historian of
Faith Reflects on What We Are Doing Here.”

 

Brother David F. K. Steindl-Rast, a Benedictine monk

‘of Mount Saviour Monastery, Elmira, N. Y., and chair-

man of the Center for Spiritual Studies, established
by Christians, Buddhists, Hindus, and Jews, gave
a response to Dr. Carman’s address.

|
a, ef)
Bae

 

A dramatic moment from 1776: Pennsylvania delegate James Wilson, played by Charles Smith, "79, agonizes over casting the deciding vote
for or against independence. Anxiously awaiting his decision are Franklin, Jefferson, played by Dan Westbrook, ’77, and Adams.

Text and Photos
by W. Patrick Hinely, ’73

University Theatre:
New directions
in playmaking

10

A little-noted change took place at W&L’s theatre in
1972 when the long-standing title of “Troubadour Theatre”
was dropped, and the building at the corner of Henry and
Main Streets became the University Theatre. This name-
changing was indicative of many new directions being ex-
plored in theatre at W&L: expansions in curriculum, in-
creased numbers of productions offered, and, most important,
an outward movement in general orientation to include
much more of the University community. Of course, the
name-changing is merely an arbitrarily chosen point in
time to graph a transition which actually took several
years, beginning in the late 1960’s. What had started out as
an almost totally extracurricular club evolved into a full-
fledged academic department.

According to the students and faculty who work there,
it is now becoming truly worthy of the name University
Theatre. “Courses and productions are wide open to all who
wish to participate in any capacity,” says Leonel Kahn, the
senior member of the Drama Department. “We feel we should
offer the community as many forms and styles of drama to
see or participate in that we possibly can.”

The 1975-76 season, the biggest—and, some say, the best—
yet, has certainly met this goal. Major productions (those
underwritten by the department) have included Aristophanes’
The Birds, Samuel Beckett’s Endgame, Friedrich Durren-
matt’s The Visit, Sherman Edwards’ adaptation of 1776,

 

 

wees eS isis
Cre a
cee vane rag

Above: Dr. Albert C. Gordon directing on the set of 1776. Below:
Leonel Kahn, senior member of the drama faculty.

 

and Henrik Ibsen’s Peer Gynt. The Boys in the Band was
presented with funding help from the Student Executive
Committee, and shorter works by O’Neill, Brecht, Pinter,
‘Turgenev, George Bernard Shaw, Strindberg and others
have also been produced.

Slated for the 1976-77 season are Chekhov’s Uncle Vanya,
Brecht and Weill’s The Threepenny Opera, Marlowe’s Dr.
Faustus, Edward Albee’s Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf,
Arthur Miller’s Death of a Salesman, a Neil Simon comedy,
and an experimental production. The year’s last produc-
tions are planned to carry over into the summer months,
with hopes of laying the foundation for a regular summer-
stock operation in Lexington.

Kahn began teaching at W&L in 1965. He says things
have come a long way since then, in terms of both quality
and quantity. “Our only real limitations now are the facili-
ties,” he says. ‘““We’re pushed to the limit, and we’re really
getting the most we can out of what we have.” Course en-
rollments have been increasing since the late ’60’s, as well
as the number of students choosing a drama major. ‘““We
certainly don’t have the buildings or the equipment to carry
things out with the quality which the student talent de-
serves,’ Kahn adds. But he emphasizes that despite these
limitations, he finds the artistic freedom made possible by
W&L’s financially independent nature more than sufficient
to make life in the Theatre tolerable. This sentiment
was echoed by Albert C. Gordon, head of the Fine Arts De-
partment, who came to W&L in 1974 from the University of
Toledo, a state college. There he saw drama stifled, both
monetarily and artistically, by excessively political bureau-
cracy, which is not the case at W&L.

“The facilities here are very limited, but this is both good
and bad,” says William Cantler, ’77, a drama major. “It
challenges you to find other ways of doing things—but you
really can’t learn to use a lot of equipment considered
commonplace in the professional theatre.’”’ Cantler produced
an excerpt from Shaw’s Don Juan in Hell which used very
few of the usual theatrical devices that can look like magic
to an audience; using the rather bare stage of the Art De-
partment’s duPont Auditorium, he had his players dress and
sit more like chamber musicians than actors. Despite the
visual limitations, his direction and the highly-skilled cast’s
execution of this complex script enthralled the audience.

Two of this year’s major productions were also presented
in places other than the University Theatre building. ‘The
musical 1776, directed by Dr. Gordon, played to sold-out
crowds in the much larger Evans Dining Hall, and Peer
Gynt at Lexington’s Lime Kiln, an almost eerie outdoor
setting last used for a highly-acclaimed presentation of
A Midsummer Night’s Dream in the 1960’s.

The shortage of space will be somewhat alleviated next
year with the addition of a new rehearsal hall being rented
from Old Main Street mall, across the street from the
theatre building. This approximately 50x25x20-foot former
boiler room has already been nicknamed the “black box.” ‘The
rehearsal hall will enable more full-time use of the stage in
the University Theatre itself. Rehearsals can be held across
the street, and the main stage will no longer be tied up
several weeks between productions.

Another recent innovation for the department has been
the use of videotape. In cooperation with the Journalism
Department, several shorter productions have been taped
in the Reid Hall television studios, and some have been
aired over Lexington’s new cable-I'V system. Drama stu-
dents and faculty both agreed that the theatre needs its

II

own video system for use in assessing rehearsals, much like
the varsity teams use Athletic Department video equipment
to give coaches and players the replay and review capability
which is so important for perfecting one’s performance.
Quite enthusiastically received by students in recent years
have been the “total theatre” courses offered during the six-
week Spring Term. “You're living and breathing the theatre,”
says Brock Johnson, ’76, a veteran of the course who has
played leading roles throughout his years at W&L and who
also majors in English. ‘““You’re involved in so much that
you have no other place to put your energy. It brings out
everything that’s in people.” Last spring, the course’s repertory
company presented Othello and The Tempest, with much
overlapping of casts as well as staging them on alternate
nights of the same week! This year’s Peer Gynt proved to
be as much a course in landscaping as theatre, for the
Lime Kiln was quite overgrown and required a lot of work.
The other intensive short-term course, offered every second
year, is a survey of English Drama—in England. There, says
Kahn, faculty advisor for the course, more theatre of quality
can be found than anywhere else in the world. Students
see about 30 productions in as many days, ranging from
Shakespeare by the Royal Company at Stratford-on-Avon to
musicals in London’s West End, the British equivalent
of Broadway. They also take courses at several institutions
from teachers including Harold Pinter, Robert Kidd, and
Peter Schaffer, whose Equus received its Southern-U.S. pre-
miere at W&L in October 1974.

 

Pat Hinely, former University photographer, is currently
managing the campus record store. He plans to return to
his native Florida in July to pursue his search for the mean-

ing of life through photography.
12

 

 

Above: A scene from Don Juan in Hell: Don Hogle, ’75, Dan
Scott, 77, Jennifer Taylor of Lexington High School (daughter of
W&L classics Prof. Herman Taylor), and Brock Johnson, ’76.
Below: From Endgame: Paul Cella, "77, and (seated) David
Minton, ’76.

ee ee ee

ae |

 

 

It seems fair to say that the University Theatre has been
relatively successful in attempting to be all things to all
people, with the reservation that those students who plan to
enter theatre on a professional level after graduation from
W&L are likely to find themselves considered inferior to
graduates of larger and more career-oriented institutions.
This is sadly ironic, for the W&L experience can produce a
much more widely-versed individual than a school specializing
in anything, theatre included. For the W&L drama major
with professional aspirations, however, jobs is the name of
the game, and it can only be hoped that the situation will
improve. ‘Though majors comprise a minority of the staff
for any given production, they are essential to the ongoing
success of the theatre. Many non-majoring participants, stu-
dent and faculty alike, credit the majors with being most help-
ful during productions, filling the need for on-the-spot
instruction and advice which a director is often too busy to
give,

Those majors who select the directing thesis (as opposed
to the acting thesis) are probably at the greatest disad-
vantage after graduation. W&L is one of a very few schools
in the nation where an undergraduate senior is allowed to
direct a major production, and the practice has not yet
found acceptance in professional hiring circles. “It was nice
having that opportunity,” says Hugh Sisson, ’76, who directed

Above: Rehearsals involve a lot of waiting and listening. This was
a run-through of The Boys in the Band. Below: From Krapp’s
Last Tape by Samuel Beckett; playing Krapp is Brad Liston, ’79.

13

 

f
ie
ia ae

ie
TZ,

atte em
‘ a ened ee
a ea

Cox

Beckett’s Endgame last fall, the season’s most meticulously
crafted presentation. “But,” he continues, “it’s going to be
real hard to find a job without going to grad school.”

W&L drama graduates are starting to go places, though.
Mark Daughtrey, ’74, recently graduated first in his class
from the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York
City. Don Hogle, a 1975 graduate who was elected to Phi
Beta Kappa in his junior year (a rare honor), will enter
classes at the Academy in the fall.

Hogle is currently living in Lexington, enjoying the
opportunity for full-time involvement with theatre now that
academic commitments have been dealt with for the time
being. He is part of a group attempting to choreograph Aaron
Copland’s Appalachian Spring, a piece of music which,
Hogle says, comes closer to personifying America than any-
thing else yet composed. He is also teaching an acting class,
independent of any institution. “We don’t do plays,” Hogle
says of his students, most of whom are pupils at Lexington
High School. “We’re working on developing the tools which
they, as actors, will have at their disposal: their bodies, their
voices, and a whole thing which I guess you could call their
powers of perception—their ways of looking at the world,
at each other, and at themselves. An awareness of things.”

In addition to dancing and teaching, Hogle also stage-
managed one of W&L’s major productions, and, during March,
played two leading roles concurrently, appearing as the
Devil in Don Juan in Hell and as the pivotal character
in The Boys in the Band. “I work myself, just as a musician
works his instrument. It may look easy, but it takes a lot of
time to get ready for a show.”

A lot of time, to say the least. Thousands of man-hours

14

hoe acoeiaal

 

are spent in preparation for each production, “You can
pretty much count on rehearsals taking up your whole even-
ing, or at least all of the productive part of it,” says Paul
Cella, 77, an English major who has played leading roles
during each of his years at W&L. “If you’re not careful,

you can get in a lot of trouble with your other courses.”
Most people are sufficiently careful, though, and professors
are usually understanding, for quite a few faculty members
have themselves been involved with productions in some
capacity.

The staff for a production is much more than just a
director and a cast of actors. There are technicians for light-
ing, sound, set design and construction, props, costumes,
make-up, and a host of other tasks such as ushering and
manning the box office. But these unsung heroes are enough
for another whole story.

It is this element of human as well as artistic orchestra-
tion, says Kahn, which creates the magic of the theatre.
“Drama really is a combination of all the art forms at their
best,” says John Ellis, ’77, a double major in drama and
English. “It allows a more direct and effective means of
communication than any other medium. It creates a col-
lective reality in which the total effect is more than any
one person could do.”

“The theatre is live,’ emphasizes Will Cantler, who can
make that distinction well after having done extensive work
in television and radio production at W&L. “Those are
human beings up there on that stage right in front of you.
They can come down into the audience and touch someone.
It’s that four-dimensional tension as much as anything else
that makes the theatre particularly dynamic.” :

Opposite: Don Hogle’s acting class in progress on the lawn of
W&L’s Lee House. The group’s Free to be You and Me was per-
formed at W&L, Southern Seminary, and at area grade schools.
Above Left: The cast of The Boys in the Band: Hugh Sisson, ’76,
John Ellis, 77, Hunt Brown, ’79, Bill Hirschmann, ’76, Don Hogle,
‘75, and David Minton, ’76, and (seated) Paul Cella, ’77, and
Mike Gallagher, ’79. Above Right: A scene from Aristophanes’
The Birds, directed by Lecky Stone, 76. Above: Taylor Harbison,
‘79, as the Button Moulder, and Bill Hirschmann in the title role
of Peer Gynt. The trees and rocks look real because they are.

“Acting is an intellectual appeal to the incongruous,”
says Brock Johnson, paraphrasing an author whose ideas
he retains though not his name. “What you’re putting forth
on stage is sinking into an audience which has come to listen.
It’s projecting something into their minds, and then you
yourself become the real audience because you’re watching
their reaction to something that you already know. I act to
be entertained.”

“Acting is really a good thing for breaking down your
inhibitions,” adds Hugh Sisson. “You strengthen yourself
because you’re forced to use yourself, in situations where you
normally wouldn’t. It’s good for learning your own strengths
and weaknesses, and for allowing you to learn about the
strengths and weaknesses of others. It’s a real mind-stretcher.”’

Or, as Paul Cella put it, “It’s just fun.”

15

 

by Esmarch S. Gilreath

Professor of Chemistry Emeritus

and

John H. Wise

Professor of Chemistry

Chemical education: the view from W&L

This article was excerpted from a talk
delivered by Dr. John H. Wise, head of
the WeL chemistry department, at the
Symposium on a Review of Chemical
Education since 1776 and a Look at the
Future at the American Chemical Society
Centennial Meeting in New York in
April. His talk was based primarily on
the writings of Dr. Esmarch S. Gilreath,
professor of chemistry emeritus and head
of the department at Washington and
Lee. Dr. Wise explained that his talk re-
presented a “biased view” of chemical
education in the South because he used
Washington and Lee as “a case history.”

[ submit that Washington and Lee is
an excellent model for chemical educa-
tion development anywhere, but _par-
ticularly among the smaller undergradu-
ate institutions. We claim to be the sixth-
oldest institution of higher education in
the country, and our history preceeds the
Revolutionary War—thus we are a Bi-
centennial as well as a Centennial in-
stitution. We have gone through all of the
major phases of educational change and
have even been somewhat innovative
upon occasion.

The earliest existing catalogue, that
of 1826, indicates that chemistry was
taught then as it has been continuously.
Prof. Edward Graham was the professor
of astronomy, natural philosophy, and
chemistry. General principles of chemis-
try was listed as taught as a part of the
second semester of the junior year. In
1826, a generous bequest from a local
trustee of Washington College—an Irish
immigrant, soldier under Washington,
and whiskey distiller, John Robinson—es-
tablished a chair of natural philosophy
that existed until 1957.

Landon G. Garland and Joseph W.
Fornum held the chair for short tenures.
In 1839, George D. Armstrong, a Presby-
terian minister, became Robinson _pro-
fessor of physical science. As in previous
years, his science course was taught in
the junior year, and the contents were
shown in the catalogue as including

16

 

John Lyle Campbell taught chemistry in
the time of Robert E. Lee.

chemistry, electricity, magnetism, heat,
mechanics, hydrostatics, pneumatics, op-
tics, and astronomy. The subject was
taught by lectures with experiments (as
demonstrations) during recitation periods.
According to the catalogue, the textbook
was Turner’s Chemistry. The catalogue
also stated that the college had a respect-
able amount of chemical and philosophi-
cal apparatus, valued at $5,000, which was
kept in good order. There was also a
two-year program in agriculture, which
included chemistry in the second year.
This agriculture program was in the cata-
logue until 1851. Perhaps it was this agri-
cultural aspect that was the origin of
the teaching of chemistry—no other rec-
ord was found to indicate the source.

In 1851, John Lyle Campbell became
the Robinson professor of physical
science. Prof. Campbell was of a pioneer
Virginia family closely connected with
the college over a long period of time.
He, his four brothers and his four sons
all graduated from Washington College,
and two of his sons were later on the col-
lege staff—even serving as joint acting
president in 1911-12. John Lyle Camp-
bell taught for 35 years, becoming one
of the strongest teachers on the faculty.
He helped the college through some lean
years before the Civil War (in 1853
there were but 42 students and 20 part-

time students attending). During his ca-
reer he taught agriculture, chemistry,
mineralogy, and geology, and he author-
ed a textbook in agriculture that was
widely used in the South as well as some
25 published papers.

The most significant early period in
the development of chemical education
at Washington and Lee occured during
the years 1865-70 while General Robert
E. Lee was president of the then-named
Washington College. (The name Wash-
ington and Lee University was adopted
on the death of General Lee in 1870.)
Lee broke with the classical traditions
and attempted to introduce a practical
(possibly “‘relevant’’) bent to the curri-
culum. His proposals included establish-
ing a chair in practical chemistry, and
contemplated education in medicine and
pharmacy; however, the latter two pro-
grams were never instituted. Although
not unique, Lee’s proposals did much to
invigorate the curriculum, particularly
in the sciences. This time period also in-
cluded entry into the competition for
a land-grant college status among several
existing Virginia colleges. This competi-
tion was finally resolved in the found-
ing of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University in 1872 as Virginia’s
land-grant institution.

Perhaps it would be interesting to de-
scribe Lee’s proposed course in chemis-
try applied to the arts. It included: (1)
Elementary mathematics; (2) Linear draw-
ing; (3) General and industrial physics;
(4) General and analytical chemistry; (5)
Mineralogy and crystalography; (6) In-
dustrial geology and metallurgy; (7) Bot-
any, zoology, and comparative anatomy;
(8) Physiological chemistry, animal and
vegetable; (9) Use of the mouth blow
pipe; (10) Glassblowing with the enamel-
ers lamp; (11) Use of tools practically
taught; (12) Photography; (13) Chemical
technology or the manufacture of acids,
alkalis, salts, glass, pottery, illuminating
gas and oils, soaps, paints, varnishes, dyes,
drugs, fermented and distilled liquors,
vinegar, starch,

sugar, bread, gelatin,

 

leather, etc.; (14) Economy and the man-
agement of chemical manufactures.

In 1870, engineering programs were
begun, and an engineering school which
was Called by several different titles exist-
ed until 1939. Since then, engineering has
been limited to pre-professional training
only. Chemistry was included in various
engineering curricula. For a number of
years (1920-1935) chemistry was listed in
the catalogue under the School of Ap-
plied Science, but since 1939 all courses
are shown in the Arts and Sciences cate-
gory.

The 1865 catalogue showed a master’s
degree program—a program more like an
honors program. This marked an entry
into graduate-like degree offerings. The
master’s degree was listed in the cata-
logue until 1946, although only a limited
number of candidates attempted the de-
gree. A Ph.D. program was added in 1870
and was listed in the catalogue until 1914.
Again, only a few degrees were ever
awarded, and graduate education in the
South developed most prominently in
the larger state institutions and a few
private universities such as Duke, Emory,
Vanderbilt, and Tulane.

The 1865 catalogue also commented
on the destruction of the philosophical
and chemical apparatus in an 1864 raid
by Northern troops. It stated that ade-
quate supplies had been restored and
that more were expected. As at most col-
leges then and now, the expectation of
added facilities remains a viable hope.

In 1870, Dr. N. A. Pratt was named
as the professor of applied chemistry al-
though he did not begin teaching until
1872. ‘Then a two-year program in practi-
cal chemistry was offered: the first year
was mostly biology and agriculture and
the second year was chemistry, including
some mining and metallurgy applica-
tions. Individual laboratory work, with
students in applied chemistry being
charged for apparatus and materials con-
sumed by themselves, was involved in the
advanced course. Prof. Campbell’s courses
in chemistry and geology remained es-

ee
od
8
ad
Sel
cos)
cd
sd
aa.

bad
at
=

 

Chemistry laboratory in Howe Hall during the 1930s.

sentially the same as in previous years.
Pratt’s courses were unfortunately far
too difficult for the average student. Only
10 students, enrolled in each of the two
years offered. This lack of interest, add-
ed to the lack of adequate housing, caus-
ed Pratt to resign in 1874 leaving all
courses in chemistry back in the hands of
Prof. Campbell.

At this time, the chemistry depart-
ment was housed in the main rear section
of Washington Hall. The department
had a large lecture room (60 capacity)
with an oversize table covered with lead
on which were alcohol lamps and a char-
coal combustion furnace. One case in the
rear of the room held all apparatus and
a smaller case contained the supply of
chemicals. This area was known to stu-
dents as “Purgatory,” to contrast with
the upper floors which were designated
“Paradise.”

(In the talk, slides were used to show
the catalogue descriptions of the chem-
istry curriculum starting in 1876—year
zero of the American Chemical Society—
and then at 25-year intervals through
1951.)

Practical chemistry had been dropped

with Pratt’s departure, and the remaining
course descriptions in 1876 were gener-
ally the same as in previous years. Min-
eralogy and geology were included with
chemistry in the departmental title. A
section of physics led off the first course,
which included inorganic chemistry, or-
ganic chemistry, physiological chemis-
try, and a history of chemistry. The sec-
ond course was primarily geology, with
some analysis of materials included there.

In 1882, Harry D. Campbell was add-
ed to the staff as instructor in chemistry
and geology to aid his father, and geology
course descriptions were revised some-
what. In 1884, the catalogue stated: “A
WORKING ROOM has been fitted up
for practical exercises in Applied Chem-
istry.” In 1886, John L. Campbell died,
and Harry finished up the year. The next
year, Harry was on leave, and William
G. Brown became the professor of chem-
istry. When Harry returned, he became
Robinson professor of geology and_ bi-
ology, with Brown as professor of general
and applied chemistry. Chemistry was
completely divorced from geology as a
department in 1888, although courses in
metallurgy and in mineralogy and assay-

17

Chemical Education at W&eL

 

ing remained with the chemistry depart-
ment until 1946 as special courses; how-
ever there was probably little demand
for them.

Prof. Brown was a_ controversial
character. He was an Englishman, raised
in Virginia and a graduate of the Uni-
versity of Virginia, who was never nat-
uralized. He had refused to relinquish the
course in mineralogy to the geology de-
partment on the grounds that extensive
use of chemistry was required. In 1891,
he recommended construction of a science
building, quite modern for that time, at a
cost of some $25,000. The Board of Trus-
tees decided that the building was too
elaborate and too expensive; thus they
authorized a more modest structure, erect-
ed directly in back of Washington Hall
and now known as Washington Annex
I.

This building was a rather short-
lived home for the chemistry department
—from 1892 to 1907. Apparently only
two students made use of the new labora-
tory facilities through 1895. One inter-
esting feature of the building is its loca-
tion at a former site of a student latrine.

Analytical chemistry was added to the
chemistry curriculum in 1892 as a fourth
course, with “good facilities” in this new
building.

Brown was involved in a dispute over
the granting of a Ph.D. degree to Leslie
Lyle Campbell, of the Campbell family
again. Brown refused to approve the ap-
plication, stating that Campbell was de-
ficient in mineralogy. The faculty up-
held Brown, but the matter was brought
to the Board of ‘Trustees who deliberated
for 10 hours before agreeing with the
faculty. Some two years later, Campbell
completed another examination which
Brown certified as satisfactory for the
award of the degree.

Dr. James Lewis Howe later character-
ized Brown as “not only an excellent
chemist but also a man of high educa-
tional and scholastic standards. He was
strong in his views, but unfortunately
for the harmony of the faculty, inclined

18

 

Dr. James Lewis Howe

to be unyielding, a trait possibly ex-
plained by.his British background, and
which was later to result in much fric-
tion.”

During the academic sessions of 1892-
93 and 1893-94, all of Brown’s students
in chemistry received low or failing
grades, and only one in 13 was passed
in mineralogy. The complaints were so
numerous that the Board tactfully sug-
gested that Brown should resign his post.

On June 20, 1894, Prof. Brown wrote
a lengthy letter to the secretary of the
Board stating that the Board had failed
to show that he was incompetent as a
teacher. The letter closed with the state-
ment, “Will you therefore inform the
Board of ‘Trustees that I respectfully de-
cline to tender my resignation.” On the
same day, a second letter, one sentence
long, was sent saying, “Will you com-
municate this tender of my resignation
of the Chair of General and Applied
Chemistry in the University to take ef-
fect Jan. 1, 1895.”

The Board met to elect a successor
and voted on two men, James Lewis
Howe and W. H. Seamon. Howe won on
a 10 to 3 vote, the only objection being

 

Dr. Lucius Junius Desha

that he was a Presbyterian. Since only one
non-Presbyterian was on the faculty at
that time, those three members of the
Board felt that a Baptist would be a
better choice. When the one Methodist
faculty member resigned several years lat-
er, the Presbyterianism became complete.

James Lewis Howe was born in New-
buryport, Mass., on Aug. 4, 1859. His par-
ents were progressive for their time in
that they sent their son to kindergarten
at the age of four. The Howe home was
the first in Newburyport to have a tele-
phone. A progressive outlook characteriz-
ed James Lewis Howe’s teaching and
philosophy. He was the first chemistry
teacher to offer laboratory work in gen-
eral and organic chemistry at Washington
and Lee. He had the second bathtub in
Lexington. (George Washington Custis
Lee had the first.) He became interested
in the platinum metals and soon became
the foremost world authority on ruthe-
nium and its salts. He had the flashiest
collection of neckties of any faculty mem-
ber. The span of his teaching was most
unusual. Before coming to Washington
and Lee he taught 11 years in Central
University and in the Louisville Medi-

cal School in Kentucky. He was a mem-
ber of the teaching faculty of Washing-
ton and Lee between 1894 and 1950, for
a total of 65 years of active teaching. Dr.
Gilreath has seen copies of lecture notes
used in the sessions of 1897-98 and 1949-
50 (a difference of 52 years), and both
sets of notes are excellent examples of
clear thinking and efficient organization.

Dr. Howe received the A.B. degree
from Amherst College in 1880, and a
Ph.D. degree from the University of Got-
tingen in Germany. While in Germany he
knew Wohler, and became acquainted
with Bunsen and Arrhenius. He carried
on a correspondence with Mendeleev in
Russia concerning the development of
the periodic table. While at Gottingen his
best friend was Francis Preston Venable,
later the head of the chemistry depart-
ment and president of the University of
North Carolina. Howe and Venable col-
laborated in 1898 in writing a textbook in
inorganic chemistry which went through
three editions.

The curriculum in Howe’s first year
showed three courses—a full year of chem-
istry at the junior level (previously half
of the year was natural philosophy), a
senior year course, and special courses. By
1900, there were four courses, and no
mention was made of starting at the
junior year. The courses were listed as:
General Inorganic, Qualitative Analysis,
Elementary Quantitative Analysis, and
Organic Chemistry, with other offerings
at student demand.

Howe used from one to six student
assistants, sometimes as instructors, in his
teaching—later adding an associate pro-
fessor in 1917. At this time, the Howe
and Venable text was listed in the cata-
logue for the general chemistry course.

Chemistry courses began to attract
students so that the facilities were soon
over-crowded. In 1907, the department
was moved back to the central campus
building. The main laboratory was now
in the small wing, and other rooms were
in a section of the building now known
as Payne Hall.

| a ae

a

ai

Slee sai.

a

an ee

In 1962, Howe Hall was completely

modernized.

 

 

Chemical Education at WeL

 

 

Dr. Esmarch S. Gilreath

The engineering school became the
School of Applied Science in 1913. Dr.
Howe was dean of that school for a
number of years of its existence. Ad-
vanced analytical chemistry was offered
in that school, and in 1919 a course on
the chemistry of explosives was included
in the curriculum for one year only. Also
in 1919, Howe emulated Campbell in
having his son, James Lewis Howe Jr., as
an assistant professor in the chemistry de-

partment. The junior Howe, unlike
Harry Campbell, was on the staff for
only four years, however. Since Dr.

Howe’s health appeared failing and there
was concern that he could not continue
his heavy teaching load, a second profes-
sor of chemistry was appointed in 1920.
This man was Dr. Lucius Junius Desha,
a Washington and Lee graduate of 1907,
with a doctorate from Johns Hopkins.
Over the next 25 years, the staff usually
consisted of three active teachers—Howe
and Desha, with a variety of instructors or
assistant professors, along with student
assistants. Since 1946, the staff has in-
creased from four to a maximum of eight.
The present number is seven, with one
member also dean of the College and an-

20

 

, CF iy, em

3

Dr. John H. Wise

other member also director of the Com-
puter Center.

In 1924, a new science building, which
is the present home of the department,
was constructed. When Dr. Howe died in
1955 at the age of 96, this building was
named Howe Hall. In 1962, the building
was completely modernized, and a wing
was added in the rear for more adequate
advanced laboratories and faculty offices.

The 1926 curriculum offered little un-
usual to comment upon except the ex-
tent of the offerings. The course list still
showed the offerings of metallurgy and
determinative mineralogy and _ assaying,
the latter course remaining in the cCata-
logue until 1946,

Dr. Howe became an emeritus pro-
fessor in 1938, but he continued teach-
ing until 1950, including some German
during the war years. The main course
that Dr. Howe taught after his first re-
tirement was industrial chemistry, pri-
marily as an elective for the School of
Commerce. Dr. Desha was then head of
the department until 1955, when he re-
tired as emeritus professor. Dr. Desha
had risen to prominence on the faculty,
concluding his career as its senior mem-

ber. He wrote a text in organic chemis-
try, was chairman of the University’s bi-
centennial celebration in 1949, and was
the accepted social leader of the com-
munity.

My co-author, Dr. Gilreath, joined
the faculty in 1946. A graduate of the
University of North Carolina, he has
written texts in analytical chemistry (one
of which is still used in general chemis-
try) and in advanced inorganic chemis-
try. He succeeded Dr. Desha as head until
I became head in 1970. Dr. Gilreath end-
ed his teaching in 1975, after 29 years at
Washington and Lee, and is now an
emeritus professor.

I arrived at Washington and Lee in
1953, while Howe was still living in his
home on the campus—an arrangement
conceived during World War I when
Howe declined lucrative offers to leave
the University for war work. Dr. Desha
died in 1967, after a distinguished ca-
reer of 35 years teaching at his alma
mater.

Since 1941, Washington and Lee has
been on the American Chemical Society
approved list, and our undergraduate
curriculum remains strong. The basic pro-
gram has been only slightly modified
since the 1951 catalogue. Notable addi-
tions have been instrumental analysis, a
term of bio-organic chemistry (as opposed
to biochemistry), and options for non-
science majors in an elementary organic-
biochemistry-environment course and in
the history of chemistry. The program has
been adapted to the 12-12-6 calendar
quite successfully.

Using a model of a Southern institu-
tion, I hope that this rather personal ac-
count of chemistry at Washington and
Lee will illustrate that chemistry is a
thriving subject everywhere. Washing-
ton and Lee is not unique in its offerings
—the region contains many fine colleges
and universities with strong departments
at every level of chemical education. Let
me only say that I appreciate this oppor-
tunity to elaborate on my home institu-

tion.

 

 

 

Anonymous $160,000 gift supports

renovation of Lee-Jackson House

> OTN ERE Re. 5. oe

eee Sap. aR

Lee-Jackson House to be completely restored.

Boosted by a $160,000 gift from an
anonymous donor, Washington and Lee
will begin complete restoration and pres-
ervation of the _ historic Lee-Jackson
House on its campus this summer. The
house—built in 1841—was the residence
of Thomas J. “Stonewall” Jackson before
the Civil War, and of Robert E, Lee and
his family just after it.

The total cost of the restoration and
preservation project is expected to be
$180,000. In addition to the $160,000
anonymous gift, Washington and Lee
has received $20,000 from the National
Historic Landmarks Commission.

The restoration plan has been pre-
pared by J. Everette Fauber Jr. of Lynch-
burg, the noted restoration architect and
historian. The contractor is W. W. Coffey
& Son, Inc. of Lexington.

When the year-long project is com-
plete, the Lee-Jackson House will again
become the residence, as it was from the

 

beginning, of a senior professor or dean
at the University.

‘The principal work on the exterior of
the house will be repointing the brick-
work. ‘The interior, which has been only
slightly modified in the 135 years since
it was built, will be restored faithfully to
its original Greek Revival style. Addition-
al structural support will be provided,
and the electrical, plumbing, and _heat-
ing-cooling systems will be thoroughly
modernized and replaced when necessary.

The house was built to accommodate
the college president, part of a major
building program in the 1840s that in-
cluded three other on-campus residences
and an expansion of the “Centre Build-
ing,” now Washington. Hall, which had
been built in 1824.

It was in 1853 when Thomas J. Jack-
son—then a teacher of “natural and ex-
perimental philosophy” at neighboring
Virginia Military Institute—married Elea-

nor Junkin, daughter of the president
of Washington College, that he moved in-
to the house. His bride died 14 months
later, but Jackson remained a member
of the Junkin household for several years.

Robert E, Lee moved into the house
in 1865, when he became president of the
college five months after Appomattox. He
and his family, which soon joined him in
Lexington, lived there until a new presi-
dent’s residence was completed in 1869.

The entire front campus at Washing-
ton and Lee—including the Lee-Jackson
House—is a National Historic Landmark,
the highest designation the federal gov-
ernment can confer on a private site. At
the time it announced the designation,
the Interior Department described Wash-
ington and Lee’s as “one of the most
dignified and beautiful college campuses
in the nation.”

The federal agency said the four on-
campus residences and the antebellum
academic buildings “have remained the
visual symbol and psychological heart of
this venerable institution.”

The restoration of the Lee-Jackson
House is a principal element in Uni-
versity plans to carry out similar restora-
tion and preservation on the entire his-
toric Front Campus—including the three
other residences and the “Colonnade,” as
the 152-year-old “Centre Building” and
those flanking it are now called.

The restoration program—expected to
cost $1 million in all—is in turn a part of
Washington and Lee’s comprehensive de-
velopment plan for the 1970s, which also
calls for a new undergraduate library,
renovation of several other existing aca-
demic buildings, and a doubling of W&L’s
endowment in addition to projects al-
ready completed or under way. (Those
include a $3.25-million addition to Do-
remus Gymnasium, a new law building,
costing $7 million, which opens this fall,
a 178-student upperclass apartment com-
plex, and extensive improvements to out-
door athletic facilities, utilities, road and
walkway systems, landscaping, and the
like.)

21

by John Hughes

Sports Information Director

Lacrosse tops
spring sports
success

It was midway through the season,
and a longtime Washington and Lee la-
crosse fan was worried. ‘The Generals had
just lost a game they shouldn’t have, fall-
ing 10-7 to Hofstra after twice being
ahead by five goals.

Worse, it was W&L’s third loss to a
University Division team, and on the
horizon were several more formidable
foes, including awesome Maryland and
the three top-ranked teams in the Col-
lege Division.

When the fan expressed his concern
that the Generals might not make the
post-season championship tournament,
Coach Jack Emmer didn’t flinch. “Don’t
worry,’ Emmer said, “we'll be there at
the end.”

Emmer was right. His Generals once
again came on strong at season’s end
and, sure enough, made the championship
tournament. To get there, they beat
those top three teams in the College Divi-
sion (Roanoke, Cortland, and ‘Towson),
gave Maryland a real scare before los-
ing, 16-14, and—as usual—whipped Vir-
ginia’s Wahoos to climax the regular
season and cement the tournament bid.

In many ways the 1976 season was a
repeat of 1975: a slow start and a fast
capped off by W&L’s fourth
Straight victory over Virginia and fifth
straight NCAA tournament appearance.
Only three other teams in the country
have been selected five consecutive years
—Maryland, Navy and John Hopkins.

As the season began, Emmer knew he
had a strong defense, keyed by All-Ameri-
can defensemen Rob Lindsey and
Tommy Keigler, plus sensational sopho-
more goalie Charlie Brown and crease de-
fenseman John Strock, plus plenty of
talented depth. The attack figured to be
strong with the return of last year’s two
top scorers on attack, seniors Don Car-
roll and Rob Morgan. The biggest prob-
lem area, as usual, was the relatively in-
experienced midfield.

The offense had a field day in three
early season wins by big margins over
Duke, N. C. State, and Morgan State.
Then came the setbacks against the better

22

finish,

teams—all of them top-ranked in the Uni-
versity Division—North Carolina (6-9),
Navy (7-8), and Hofstra (7-10). As evident
by the scores, the defense performed
well, but the offense lacked something.

Then came the dramatic last half of
the season, with impressive victories over
No. 3-ranked Towson, 13-9, No. l-ranked
Roanoke 12-8 and No. 2 Cortland, 13-10,
plus the excellent showing against Mary-
land, the nation’s No. l-ranked Univer-
sity Division team.

But just like the past several years, it
all boiled down to the last game of the
season, the annual match with arch-rival
Virginia in Charlottesville. The Wahoos
were ranked No. 6, W&L No. 9, and it was
an open secret that the winner would get
the post-season bid while the loser stayed
home.

The Generals jumped on the Wahoos
early and stayed ahead all the way, al-
though the Cavaliers rallied on several
occasions to make it tense. Morgan and
Carroll redeemed themselves in spades
for any previous lack of scoring punch
as Morgan had five goals and one assist,
Carroll four and three. ‘They each had an

 

early score for W&L’s quick 2-0 lead
which expanded to 10-3 early in the third
quarter with the help of freshmen Chris
Kearney (two goals, two assists) and Jeff
Fritz (3 and 1). It was then that Virginia
began rallying, getting within four goals
on three different occasions before Mor-
gan and Carroll each scored a late clinch-
er. The final margin was a resounding
15-9.

W&L’s reward was a_ seventh-place
national ranking and a bid to play unde-
feated and powerful Cornell in the
opening round of the tournament. The
Big Red dominated, won 14-0, and went
on to win the national championship
with a thrilling 16-13 overtime victory
over previously undefeated Maryland.
It was the fourth year in a row Emmer’s
Generals had been knocked out of the
tournament by the eventual champion.
“If you are going to lose, it might as well
be to the best,” he philosophized.

W&L garnered its share of honors and
awards for another excellent season. Both
Keigler and Lindsey were first team
choices at defense on the All-American
team, meaning two-thirds of the defensive

 

Lacrosse captains Rob Morgan, Rob Lindsey, and Don Carroll with
Coach Jack Emmer being photographed after the Virginia game.

All-American defenseman Tom Keigler (24) takes out an attackman from

 

Cortland State. Guarding the net is sophomore Charlie Brown (1).

team wore W&L blue. Goalie Brown
made the Second Team, quite an honor
for just a sophomore, while Carroll re-
peated on the Honorable Mention list.
Lindsey, Morgan and Carroll all per-
formed well in the annual North-South
All-Star Game, and Emmer was honored
by being selected to coach the South
team. Midfielder Jack Dudley joined
Carroll, Keigler, Lindsey and Brown on
the All-South Atlantic Division squad,
and he and Keigler were named co-cap-
tains for next season.

With many talented veterans return-
ing next year and a very favorable re-
port on recruiting, W&L’s high niche in
the lacrosse world seems secure for a
long time to come.

W&L’s other spring sports also had
successful seasons. The golf team posted
an excellent 11-2 record. The tennis
squad was 12-10 and won the Virginia
College Athletic Association (VCAA)
championship over seven other Virginia
small colleges. The baseball team had a
9-13 record including a victory over pow-
erful Liberty Baptist. The track team
broke or tied several records enroute to
a 4-6 mark.

Sophomore Jerry Maatman paced the
golf team to its outstanding record at the
No. 1 position. Winning state champion-
ships in tennis were Ben Johns at No. I,
Ken Voelker at No. 4, Rob Smith at No.
6, Johns-Voelker at No. 1 doubles, Don
Caffery-Smith at No. 2 and Jim Fisher-
Bob Wilson at No. 3. Johns was voted
the Outstanding Player and Dennis Bus-
sard repeated as VCAA Coach-of-the-
Year. Dan Westbrook posted an outstand-
ing 6-3 won-loss mark and 3.75 earned-
run average in pacing the baseball squad.
Freshmen Rich Wiles (.313) and David
Hundley (.301) were the leading hitters,
while soph Bob Szczecinski (.283) and
junior Ben Bonaventura (.280) were close
behind, In track, the 440 relay team of
Larry Banks, John Tucker, Jack Norberg
and Ray Scott tied the school record
with a :43.2 clocking, Mike Burns broke
the outdoor two-mile mark that had
stood for 41 years, posting a 9:42.1 on
Wilson Field to erase the 9:44.6 set by
M. R. Dunaj in 1935.

SUPERSWIMMER JOHN HUDSON
IS NATIONAL CHAMPION

Sophomore John Hudson became
Washington and Lee’s first-ever na-
tional champion in leading the Generals
to a high finish in the NCAA Division
III swimming championships. It was the
best showing ever for W&L’s swimming
squad, which had five other All-Ameri-

 

National champion John Hudson

cans in Bill Cogar, Tad Van Leer, Keith
Romich, Rod Scott and Chip Hoke, and
placed eighth of 64 teams at the national
meet.

Hudson won both the 500-yard and
1,650-yard freestyle events at the national
meet, as well as a third in the 200-yard
freestyle and swimming the anchor lap
on the 800-yard freestyle relay team that
also achieved All-American honors.

En route to the national champion-
ship, Hudson set numerous records, in-
cluding state marks in the 500, 1,000 and
1,650 and school standards in those three
events plus the 200. In his two years of
collegiate competition to date, the sensa-
tional sophomore from Lancaster, Pa.,
has made All-American in six individual
events and three relays.

Van Leer’s outstanding career has
been overshadowed only by Hudson’s.
The junior from Glen Ridge, N. J., won
All-American honors this year in the 50-
yard freestyle, to go along with his All-
American achievements last year in the
100-yard freestyle and both relay events.
Cogar, an outstanding soccer player who
concentrated on that sport until his
senior year, reigns as state champion in

Jack Berry

 

 

both the one-meter and three-meter div-
ing and the school record holder in
both. He became an All-American in the
one-meter at the national meet. Romich,
just a freshman, is twice an All-American,
individually in the 200-yard freestyle and
collectively in the 800-yard relay. Scott,
this year’s team captain and Hoke,
another freshman swam on the 800-yard
team.

TOP ATHLETES HONORED
AT SPORTS BARBECUE

Two-sport star Jack Berry, basket-
ball captain John Podgajny and _ fresh-
man Richard Wiles were honored as
W&L’s top athletes in 1975-76.

Berry, the football quarterback who
set every modern day passing record,
received the Pres Brown Memorial
Award as W&L’s Most Valuable Athlete.
Podgajny was presented the Wink Glas-
gow Spirit and Sportsmanship Award,
and Wiles was named the Outstanding
Freshman athlete.

Berry doubled as a premier javelin
hurler and captained both the football
and track squads. Podgajny captained
the basketball squad, led the team in
scoring by averaging over 17 points a
game, and guided them to a 19-7 record.
Wiles lettered both as a receiver in foot-
ball and an outfielder and top hitter in
baseball. They were honored during
W&L’s annual Spring Sports Barbecue
and Awards Ceremony, when awards
were presented to the top athletes in
W&L’s 12 sports.

Over 25 per cent of W&L’s under-
graduate student body participated in in-
tercollegiate athletics during the past
school year (341 of 1,345 eligible stu-
dents). A total of 196 earned monograms.
The overall won-loss-tied record in the
12 sports was 92-75-1, with seven of them
posting winning records: basketball 19-7,
golf 11-2, tennis 12-10, lacrosse 9-5, swim-
ming 8-2, cross-country 8-5, and wrestling

8-7.

 

Richard Wiles

23

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DELTA TAU DELTA SETS UP

ANNUITY FOR LONG-TIME EMPLOYEE

CL! Delta Tau Delta social fraternity at Washington and Lee
University has established an annuity valued at almost
$12,000 to benefit its long-time employee, Reid Colbert. The
annuity was presented to Colbert at ceremonies in his honor
during the recent W&L alumni weekend.

Colbert has worked for Delta Tau Delta for 43 years. The
annuity, which current members and alumni of the local
chapter have funded, will provide an income for him and
his wife when he retires.

Leaders in the campaign to raise funds for the annuity
were Paul Cromelin, president of the fraternity last year, and
Mynders Glover, treasurer. Working with them was an ad-
visory committee of Delta ‘Tau Delta alumni who are now
members of W&L’s faculty and administration, including Presi-
dent Robert E, R. Huntley, Admissions Director James D.
Farrar, Athletic Director William D. McHenry, Andrew W,
, McThenia, professor of law, and Dr. John M. McDaniel, as-
ec — me z : sistant anthropology professor and faculty advisor to the
Dr. Arthur B. Scharff retires from teaching. W&L chapter.

 

1976 RING-TUM PHI AWARDS

C] Two University staff members, a librarian, and a leader of
the recent Mock Democratic Convention received Ring-tum
Phi Awards from W&L’s student newspaper this spring. The
awards, given annually by the student newspaper, were pre-
sented to Barbara Jeanne Brown, head of the reference and
public services department in McCormick Library; Mrs. Agnes
Gilmore, the University’s switchboard operator; Mrs. Catherine
McDowell, who retired at the end of the year after three de-
cades as secretary to five deans in the School of Law; and M.
Reed Morgan, a graduating senior who was co-chairman of
the Mock Convention.

The awards were made at the 1976 Senior Class meeting,
which preceded a picnic sponsored by the Alumni Associa-
tion. The following officers for the class were announced:
Academic—Mynders Glover, class agent, and Paul Stillwagon,
reunion chairman; Law—Frank Duemmler, class agent, and
Jon Spear, reunion chairman.

 

 

; ; 7 GRANT AIDS SHENANDOAH
Dr. Harold C. Hill heads Asian Studies Program.

LI! Shenandoah, Washington and Lee’s literary review, has re-
ceived a matching grant of $3,000 from the Coordinating
Council of Literary Magazines. The grant will be used to help
pay publishing costs and for authors’ payments.

 

FALL DATES TO NOTE

Sept. 8 Freshman Orientation begins

Sept. 15 Classes begin

Sept. 17-18 Class Agents Workshop

Sept. 18 25th Reunion of the 1951 Gator
Bowl Football ‘Team

Oct; 22 Robert E. Lee Associates Meeting
in Philadelphia

Nov. 5-6 Parents’ Weekend

Nov. 12-13 Homecoming/Fall Class Reunions

for Academic and Law Classes of
1931, 1941, 1946, 1956, and 1971
Nov. 23-29 Thanksgiving Holidays
Dec. 18-Jan. 3 Christmas Holidays

 

 

 

Kenneth P. Ruscio, admissions aide.

 

25

Chapter news

LITTLE ROCK. Arkansas alumni remi-
nisced about the University at a cock-
tail party and chapter meeting this spring.
The occasion was the opening of the
University’s traveling exhibit of Wash-
ington-Custis-Lee family portraits at the
Arkansas Arts Center in Little Rock; the
setting was the center’s “Vineyard in the
Park.” Special guest was John M. Stem-
mons, ’31, of Dallas, a member of the
Board of ‘Trustees and chairman of the
Achievement Council. William C. Nor-
man Jr., 56, chapter president, made the
principal arrangements for the meeting.

PENSACOLA. Members of the chapter
were pleased to see three Washington
and Lee students participate in the Cham-
pionship of Champions Regatta on March
6-10, sponsored by the Pensacola Yacht
Club and the U. S. Yacht Racing Union.
Clark G. ‘Thompson Jr., ’74, Lawrence R.
Daniel, ’76, and Douglas E. Johnston
Jr., ’78, all of Houston, were the crew in

Among those returning for the 50th reunion of the Class of 1926 were (standing),

Trustee John M. Stemmons, ’31, chairman of the University’s Achievement Council,

 

at Little Rock meeting with Mr. and Mrs. Adrian Williamson, ’50.

the Flying Scott class of sail boats. In the
six races, they scored a total of 22.7 points
under the Olympic scoring system and
were named champions. Thompson is

Charles W. Lowry, Harry Pfeff

the national champion in the Ensign
Class. An article about the races appear-
ed in the April 1976 issue of Yacht Rac-

ing.

    

   

a i Ra

er, Charles J. Allison,

W. W. Davis, Carl B. Knight, William Day Mullinix, Digby C. West, Edwin A. Morris, Thomas P. Foley, John B. Funk, George B. Wilkinson;
(seated) Henry Lee, John Mayhew, T. B. Bryant Jr., Henry Wilson, John C. McGiffin Jr., Emmett W. MacCorkle Jr., Almand R. Coleman,
Russell Gordon, George Hill, Hugh B. Sproul; (seated foreground) Rufus A. Fulton, James R. Hendrix, and Ralph I. Daves.

26

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
   

vs —
ae

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  
 
 
  
      
   

 
  

Inc. C.,

 

 

 

 

 

 

OO

 

 

7 ne

a

Ja.

 

—

 

 

 

:
eR
‘

oe a 7 oe - 7 - - - - - - -
- , - = / - / od | t

 

- 7 oe ; a ; a - | 7 oo oe :
eyes ae EDO ER a
: : a :

7

 

- Se
a 7 7 - a
we bet
; a
7 te te
oe FA
AN OT gn

or Teg

 

 

 

 

 

 

-

- 7 7 - 7 -

- a 7 7 . - - 7 i

Be Oe i i Oo 7 - i a

 

 

 

|
|
|
|
|

 

 

 

=

SS

National _ of Maryland
e vestry of St. Peters Epis-
Loudoun County, Va. He _

ee

 

 

 

 

7 ae : - | ae

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

~

 

A. SIMON x Je Pa on

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INC.

For members and their immediate families presents Charter trips continue to be an exceptional

ns = value despite increased fuel costs and currency
d C ir ; p Dulles De partures fluctuation. Take advantage of current

prices. Make your reservation NOW !

MO ¢ Comfortable accommodations in the best centrally
vee re ee located hotels with private bath

 

e Round trip trans-Atlantic air transportation on
Aeroflot’s newest and quietest IL-62 Jet. Meals and
beverages served aloft. ** Air transportation between
Moscow and Leningrad

   

e Three full meals daily. Breakfast consists of fruit
juices, pastry, cheese, meats, eggs, coffee/tea. Typi-
cal lunches and dinners will include Chicken Kiev,
Beef Stroganoff and also coffee and very delicious
Russian Tea

October 1-8, 1976

i

e Daily comprehensive sightseeing to all points of
“ [ interest. Ample free time to explore and take photo-
i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$ 5 9 9 fi. uns graphs. Great for the camera bug

e Welcome cocktail party

(+ 15% Tax & Service) | f< : ; Y e Tickets to theatre performances
ee cieeae ”$100.00. | Y NS SS e Gala farewell banquet at a national restaurant
e U.S. departure tax ($3.00) included
' 12a \ \\ | e All gratuities for chambermaids, bellboys and
\ doormen

e All round trip transfers and luggage handling
it | , a \\ e Experienced Escort and Hotel Hospitality

 

 

** Alcoholic beverages available + . } fT Desk, staffed by Arthurs Travel’s on-site
at a nominal charge. ~ | P : " team of professionals
Russian visa required. Processing and consular | « ti)
charge is $6.00. Aad fh | / |
e Round trip jet transportation to Rio. Meals
and beverages served aloft ** evening departure
e Deluxe accommodations for seven nights at the
DELUXE new Inter-Continental Rio Hotel
e Welcome Caipirinha Cocktail Party

Brazilian breakfast daily

Dinner five evenings-Dine-Around Plan at Rio’s
finest restaurants. Two evenings on your own
Tour to a world-famous gem factory
Complimentary chaise lounges

Exciting low cost optional tours available
U.S.Departure Tax ($3.00) included

All gratuities for bellboys and doormen

All round trip transfers and luggage handling
from airport to hotel

Experienced Escort and Hotel Hospitality
Desk,staffed by Arthurs Travel’s on-site team
of professionals

February 4-12, 1977

\
: $ + (+ 15% Tax & Service)
4 Gg © Per person-Double occupancy
Single Supplement - $100.00

tT Rio Departure Tax of approx. $3.50 not included.

** Alcoholic beverages available at a nominal charge.
Approximately $7.00 Dinner Allowance (Dine-Around Restaurant Plan).

e Round trip jet to London (meals and beverages
served aloft) ** Evening Departure

e Beautiful accommodations at the new
WESTMORELAND HOTEL

e Continental breakfast daily

@

Half-day trip to Windsor Castle
May 15-23, 1977

e City orientation tour (including Parliament, Piccadilly,
Westminster Abbey, Changing of the Guard, and more)
$ t (+15% Tax & Service)
Per person-Double occupancy
Single Supplement - $100.00

 

 

U.S. departure tax ($3.00) included

Exciting low cost optional tours available

All gratuities for chambermaids, bellboys and doormen
All round trip transfers and luggage handling from
airport to hotel

 

e Experienced Escort and Hotel Hospitality
** Alcoholic beverages available at a nominal charge. Desk, staffed by Arthurs Travel’s on-site team
t London Arrival Tax of approx. $2.59 not included. of professionals

SOSH SHSHSHSHOHSHHSHHSHHSHEHSHHHHHSHEHHHHSHHEHHHHHHHHHHSHHHHEHHHHHH FOS SHH HSHHHHHHHHHSHHHHHSHOHSSHOHHHHHEHEOAESOHOEEHOSEEH OOOH HEHOHEECOESELES EROS

For additional information on Russia or Rio return this coupon to Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450

NAME ADDRESS PHONE

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww

No library is
complete without
The 1975 Alumni Directory

ALLEN—ETHAN 31 LLB (1925-31X) WILLKIE FARR
& GALLAGHER 277 PARK AVE NEW YORK NY 10
017 LAWYER,PARTNER  WILLKIE,FARR,GAL-
LAGHER q

ALLEN—EUGENE K * 31 (1927-28)

ALLEN—FREDERICK M 43 BA (1939-43) MA GEN-
ERAL DELIVERY TAOS NM 87571

ALLEN—G WILLIAM JR 69 BA (1965-69) 30 MAN-
OR DRIVE HUDSON OH 44236 LAW STUDENT Sample
OHIO NORTHERN Alphabetical

ALLEN—G ASHLEY 65 BS (1961-65) PHD 130 List
BURNETT DR SPARTANBURG SC 29302 DIR OF
DEV DEERING MILLIKEN RES CORP q Entry

The Indispensable Reference Book
For Every Washington and Lee Alumnus

The new up-to-date Washington and Lee Alumni Direc-
tory, 1749-1975, is now available at only $5.00 a copy,
including postage. The unique feature that distinguishes
this directory from past editions is that the 1975 issue
was produced by a computerized method.

The directory has three sections:

Alphabetical—Every person who has attended W&L since
1749 is listed alphabetically, together with his class, his
degree, his address, and his occupation.

Class List—A full list of the members of each class, in-
cluding degree holders and non-graduates, appears in
this section.

Geographical—Alumni are identified by states and by
cities within these states as well as in foreign countries.

No Washington and Lee alumnus can afford to be with-
out this valuable reference book in his home or office.
Use the form below to order your copy. Mail to Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450.

Please send me............... copy(ies) of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Directory at $5.00 each, including postage. Check
is enclosed.

 

Name

 

Address

 

Zip

 

 

 

Fall sports schedule

Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

Oct.
Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Nov.

Nov.

Oct.
Oct.

Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Sept.
Sept.

Sept.
Sept.

Sept.

20
26
30

25

nO

16
23
30

13

FOOTBALL
Emory and Henry HOME
Centre Danville, Ky.
Randolph-Macon HOME
Southwestern Memphis, ‘Tenn.
Hampden-Sydney

Hampden-Sydney, Va.

University of the South HOME
Bridgewater Bridgewater, Va.
Millersville State HOME
(Parents’ Weekend)

Gettysburg HOME
(Homecoming)

Georgetown Washington, D.C.

SOCCER

Eastern Menn. Harrisonburg, Va.
Radford HOME
Guilford Greensboro, N.C.

U.N.C.-Greensboro Greensboro, N.C.

University of Virginia HOME
Roanoke Salem, Va.
Madison HOME
V.M.I. Lexington, Va.
(V.M.I.)

Lynchburg HOME
Liberty Baptist HOME
Navy Annapolis, Md.
Hampden-Sydney

Hampden-Sydney, Va.
V.P.I. . HOME

(Parents’ Weekend)

CROSS-COUNTRY
Davis & Elkins,
Shepherd Elkins, W. Va.

Roanoke, Norfolk State Salem, Va.
Virginia Wesleyan, Norfolk State,

Lynchburg Norfolk, Va.
Bridgewater HOME
West Virginia Tech HOME
Madison, Harrisonburg, Va.
Eastern Mennonite (Madison)

Old Dominion Athletic Conference

Championship HOME
NCAA Div. III
Championship Cleveland, Ohio

