 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee university7qy yg 9 MARCH 1976

 

 

 

 

el

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 51, Number 2, March 1976

William C. Washburn, '40.........0000000000000000.0000... Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman..................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68 20000000000. ocococecceccece Associate Editor
Joyce Carter, Jan Shivel................... Editorial Assistants
Sally Mann oicccccceccceeccecesee ae Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

A Volunteer in Mali ooo... I
A Fraternity Update 0000000. 5
Identity and Fraternities 00000000 9
Fancy Dress, 1976 000.000 10
W&L’s Business Game Team... 12
Winter Sports oo... cccccecccccee 14
Chapter News oo... cectescecccsceseeseeeeeveeccece 15
Class Notes oo. cececccecccececeeeeec 17
In Memoriam 2.0000 24

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

C. Royce Houcu, ’59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
President

VERNON W., HoLiemaNn, ’58, Washington, D.C.
Vice President

THEODORE M. Kerr, ’57, Midland, Texas
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. Wasupurn, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

THomas B. Brancu, III, ’58, Atlanta, Ga.
Epwin J. Fortz, 40, Gladwyne, Pa.
Marion G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. Hot.is, ’51, Memphis, Tenn.
CourTNEY R. Mauzy, JR., 61, Raleigh, N.C.
Jerry G. Soutu, ’54, San Francisco, Calif.
CHARLES C, StIEFF, II, 45, Baltimore, Md.
J. THomas Toucuton, ’60, Tampa, Fla,
RosBert M. Wuite, II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.

rl
—_—sS>

ON THE COVER: In the dark of night before
Fancy Dress Weekend, Old George received a cos-
tume from the hands of pranksters—a Bicentennial
outfit of red, white, and blue, an Uncle Sam hat,
and topped off by the Stars and Stripes. College ad-
ministrators—in a national birthday mood—grinned
and bore it—and left Old George that way for a
few days. For more on Fancy Dress, see Page 10.
Photograph by Robert Lockhart, ’72.

 

 

a
OO

——~
m4

sa
fis

~—
a oe

ae

ae
cases

so

see
Sa

2

 

 

 

ag
4
rk
es

 

Ea
6
ue.

 

 

 

Mali, its people, and of Africa as a whole have changed
considerably.

Why did I come? After graduating from Washington and
Lee in 1972 with a degree in English, I worked in Boston
as the administrative assistant to the vice president of
Northeastern Petroleum Service and Supply, Inc. During
that time, I considered ways of gaining experience beyond
the academic and business worlds. My greatest desire was
to travel, but I did not want to do it as a tourist, gathering
only cursory impressions. Nor did I want to imitate the
faddish ‘“‘bum-around Europe” phenomenon. I was more
interested in learning about other cultures by experience; I
wanted to learn more about my own culture through con-
trasts. So when the Peace Corps offered me a post in Mali,

I was fascinated. Here was an opportunity to live and work
in another culture for a specified time. And the post in-
terested me particularly because Africa was the continent that
I knew the least about, and I suspected that what I did
know did not correspond to the realities of the day. More-
over, the Silage Project proposed to me by the Peace Corps

was directly related to the efforts of Mali to recover from

the eight-year drought that I had been reading and hearing
about. The chance to help these efforts in a small but
concrete way made the post all the more attractive.

I arrived in the Malian capital of Bamako on April 3,
1974, to begin three months of training in languages and
technical methods. I was fortunate in that French is the
official language in Mali, and I had studied that language
for 10 years in high school and college. I was also given
training in Bambara, the principal dialect spoken in Mali.
In late June, I chose the small city of Koutiala in east-
central Mali near the Upper Volta border as my site of
work. By mid-July, I had moved “up-country” to begin work.

The Silage Project, funded by the Agency for Inter-
national Development (AID), is designed to reduce the loss
of livestock experienced during the Sahelian drought. Cattle
trade is a major part of the Malian economy. During the
early 1970’s, years of inadequate rains seriously depleted
Mali’s herds of cattle, sheep, and goats. ‘The result was star-
vation and economic havoc in the northern reaches of
Mali, where most of the nomadic cattle-herders are located.
Nearly all cultivation in Mali is done by hand or by ox-drawn
plows. Thus the losses of cattle made the situation even
more critical as, year after year, wild forage—the only
source of feed available—became less plentiful.

The Silage Project is introducing a method of providing
alternative feed for livestock during the dry season in
Mali (February-May). The farmer digs a circular, earthen
silo, two meters deep and three meters wide. He does this
in August or September when the preceding three months
of rain have produced plentiful wild forage of elephant

2

 

Malian villagers around one of Mello’s demonstration silos
that has been filled with grass and closed with a dirt cover.
Weight of the dirt causes a circular depression.

grass varieties. In September and October, the farmer cuts
the grass and transports it to the edge of the silo by donkey
cart. He chops the grass, letting it fall into the silo. He
compacts it by foot at 30- to 40-centimeter levels until

the silo is filled and then covers it with dirt to let the
preserving fermentation process work effectively.

All the work is done manually. Each silo requires five
to six days of work because, during the same period, the
farmer is cultivating his fields, usually millet, corn, rice,
sorghum, or cotton. During the onset of the dry season
between October and February, wild vegetation is diminish-
ed rapidly by the livestock which feed freely in the bush
that surrounds the villages. The result is that from February
until the rains begin again in late May, forage is very scarce.
In early February, the farmer opens the silo and feeds his
cattle from it. A silo of the given dimensions can support
up to five head during the three-month dry season.

Besides providing feed of good quality during a time
when there is virtually none, silage offers the Malian
farmer other advantages. He can keep his plow cattle
well nourished, strong, and disease resistant in prepara-
tion for planting time from May to July. Also his milk
cows yield higher quantities of nutritional milk when fed
on silage. And cattle destined for slaughter are kept in much

 

better condition and command a higher price on the market.

My two Malian veterinary co-workers and I have received
encouraging responses to the method from farmers in
our zone. At first, the farmers were reluctant to try a method
that departed from their traditional way of doing things,
and they were skeptical about the results. Many complained
about the hard work involved—a sometimes valid point con-
sidering their primitive equipment and the climatic con-
ditions under which they must work.

The first year we concentrated on constructing demon-
stration silos on a collective, village-wide basis. Our proce-
dure was to have several villagers gain experience by work-
ing on a collective silo so that they might build one of their
own the following year. The next year we shifted our em-
phasis to helping individual farmers construct their own
silos. In February, we will begin the final phase of the
project by opening the individual silos. The results, we
hope, will be an expansion of the use of the silo method so
that eventually it will become a regular farming and animal
husbandry practice in Mali.

A foreigner has difficulty describing his impressions
of another country. My knowledge of this region and my
appreciation of it have been greatly enlarged. A commend-
able Malian characteristic is an ability to make a foreigner feel
a part of their own lives.

Not long after moving to Koutiala (population about
24,000, yet still a very small town to a Westerner), neighbors
came to my house to introduce themselves and to invite me
to eat with their families. I soon found myself greeting
(an essential aspect of Malian politeness) more and more
people in the market place, on the streets, and at official
functions. Friendships developed rapidly. ‘To most Malians,
a friend is made for life and becomes, in title, another
member of their very extended families. As such, a friend
participates in births, baptisms, weddings, funerals, and
shares family problems. When a family member has a
problem, all members and their friends join in open discussion
to find a solution. Since the project supplies me with a
Land Rover, it is not unusual for late-night visitors to come
and ask me to drive a wife in labor or a sick child to the
dispensary.

What is unusual to a Westerner is the strict Malian
differentiation, even today, between the male and female
roles. This tradition stems from continuing African custom
and from the predominant Muslim religion. When dining
at a Malian home, the men eat together and the women
€at apart with the younger children. Such tradition is
persistent in the bush whereas in the cities increasing num-
bers of women are holding jobs. As education becomes more
widespread (Mali has an illiteracy rate of 95 per cent),
such customs will gradually change. More girls are now

 

U.S. Information Service Photos

j *
#
&

a as

_*

Farmers remove grass silage from a silo. The curved hoe-like
tool is called a “‘daba.’” Variations of the tool are used
throughout Africa; it is the principal agricultural instrument.

attending school as the Malian government continues to
expand its educational system. The emphasis parents, most
of whom are illiterate, place on education is encouraging
to me. Heartening, too, is Mali’s participation in the
U.N.-sponsored alphabetization program designed to teach
reading and writing of Bambara to uneducated adults.

A volunteer’s life in Mali is diversified. He soon becomes
accustomed to wearing many hats. From one minute to
the next, he will act as livestock technician, translator, me-
chanic, doctor, administrator, and confidant. I have learned
much about self-reliance and the trades. If something
breaks down, I am hours away from help and have to learn
to fix it myself by trial and error. If I get sick, the nearest
American medical facility is a six-hour drive away; so I
have learned quite a bit about doctoring myself. In Mali,
much more than in the States, one learns to fend for himself.

Working with my Malian colleagues has been rewarding.
Alou Dembele and Laye Sidibe, my co-workers, are both
veterinary technicians. Extension work like the Silage
Project requires a great deal of patience and flexibility in
dealing with people as well as technical expertise. My co-
workers are competent in both areas, but they have helped
me particularly in coming to understand the Malian’s
mentality and his customs which differ not only from tribe

§

 

to tribe, but from village to village.

For example, in selecting a site for a silo one must be
aware of villages’ differing systems of land proprietorship,
and in working on the job itself, one must know how to
adapt to their differing work routines and traditions. My
co-workers have given invaluable assistance on these points.
Although I am, in title, responsible for the operation, we
have worked together harmoniously and cooperatively, and
it is they who are, to a large extent, responsible for the
success we have had.

As for social life, my friends tend to be younger than
my co-workers who are both five years older than I. Most of
them are young functionaries in the Malian socialist system,
administrators in various government services, bank em-
ployees, teachers, and so forth. Although there is less distrac-
tion here than in the U.S., I find that I socialize in a similar
manner. Koutiala has electricity and hence a cinema
that shows (30 cents for two movies) occasionally good French
movies and also a staggering number of dubbed, old
American western and karate films. The city’s youth as-
sociation supports a band and sponsors weekend dances.
The band plays traditional Malian tunes, with a faster
tempo, on electric instruments. My friends sometimes act as
cultural guides by taking me to a village holding a fetish
ceremony or by taking me to a hunter’s dance. Hunters form
an elite caste in traditional Malian culture, and it is at their
dances that one can hear the best traditional music played
on locally made, wooden instruments, see dances that
have not changed in centuries, and learn more about the
legends that are the largest part of Mali’s very old and
rich history.

More often, however, week nights are spent sitting under
the stars, drinking a type of tea that is known throughout
West Africa. The strong, sticky-sweet tea is prepared over
a small charcoal burner and drunk—three glasses only—in
ritual fashion. Africans were introduced to this kind of
tea during the southern migrations of the Arabs centuries
ago. On these nights, time is usually spent listening to the
shortwave and discussing nearly any topic imaginable.
Because of the lack of distraction, conversation in Mali
remains almost an art form. There is an ambiance on
these evenings that allows me to ask freely about Malian his-
tory, Customs, current attitudes, and animist beliefs about
which Malians are rather secretive. In turn, the Malians ask
many questions about American culture, technology, politics,
and policies. To most Malians, the United States is a
fabulously wealthy and powerful nation, quite removed
from the conditions of their lives. The simple fact of being
American implies to the Malian more personal wealth than
he could ever realize. When Malians learn that as a volun-
teer I am paid relatively on the same wage scale as

4

si ae

Se “sill
: 4 Tae

¥)

y/
i" gq

 

During the three-month dry season when forage is scarce,
cattle are fed green silage. Atop the wooden shelter in
the background is stored hay, a supplement to the silage.

they, they are astounded. These evenings also provide an
opportunity for exchanges in language instruction. Most
educated Malians receive three years of English instruction
and are eager to practice and expand on what they know.
In return, they give me lessons in Bambara and in the
dialect native to the Koutiala area, Minianka. An interest-
ing side light to languages is the difficulty my friends and

I have in explaining our respective cultures in French. Since
the language is derived neither from the African’s culture
nor from the American’s, adequate explanation of nuances
and differences in the cultures becomes an elaborate un-
dertaking.

Although the wildlife around Koutiala is now greatly
diminished, I have been able to go hunting for warthog
(delicious wild pork) and various birds. The traditional
Malian hunter still uses a flintlock rifle (musket) which is
often more dangerous to the hunter than to the game.

These, then, are brief observations on my life and work
in Mali. Although I am eager to begin graduate studies in
business administration, I will have some regret when I leave
Mali in June. Its friendly people, their extraordinary
politeness and their good humor are attractive. The work
I have done here is now for the Malians to continue on
their own. I believe they will do it.

 

 

ae
a a

 

as 7
; oe tee
7 : - - - -
NY PY in ice

 

 

 

a
i in
iy e

nn

Ai

 

 

 

Fraternity Update

 

1; ila dhe rh
‘Bs! tb THETA

i
:

pat)

se

During Freshman Camp, new students are told all

Street Journal).

One of the three houses that closed in 1969-71—Kappa
Alpha—has been resurrected, complete with Alpha chap-
ter designation. (To be sure, the times have changed for
KAs no less than for everybody else: one of the new
members this year is named Pentifallo, and he’s from New
Jersey.)

Sigma Phi Epsilon, forced by economics to move from
its red-doored house on Preston Street (and to rent the house
to W&L for temporary use as a dormitory) is back.

Five years ago, the remark was made: “It is interesting and
indicative that Washington and Lee men seldom any longer
identify one another by fraternity affiliation. ... Member-
ship no longer serves sufficiently to characterize a student.”
That too has changed. At least to some useful extent, it does
once again tell you something about a student to know
what fraternity he’s in. (The accompanying article suggests
why one close observer views this identifiability as gratifying.)

6

about fraternities and the alternatives.

 

     

Pledging has stabilized at about 60 per cent of the fresh-
man class. (“Quite frankly,” Dick Fletcher said five years
ago, “I think it is unhealthy to have up to 85 per cent of
the men on fraternity rolls, as Washington and Lee had not
so long ago.” He predicted a decline in membership—a
decline which has come to pass—which, he said, would be
“an overdue technical adjustment.”)

The University’s interest in and its support of the fra-
ternity system remains strong. It has made hundreds of thou-
sands of dollars available to them at subsidized interest
rates by way of mortgage and renovation loans—$327,170
outstanding among 13 houses as of last June 30. (This year
the University Council, the faculty-student agency with pri-
mary jurisdiction in non-academic matters, has moved
forcefully to remind fraternities of their obligation ‘“‘to
maintain adequately the physical appearance of fraternity
property’—a matter of continuing concern to returning
alumni. And the fraternities seem to be taking notice.)

 

 

 

An earnest handshake is still a reliable rush technique. Top: Fraternity identity is obviously valued by a student from Maryland.

Fraternities have indeed changed. ‘“They’re not like the
fraternities in the old movies about college life,” a PiKA
senior, Bill Garrison, observed this winter in a television
documentary about Washington and Lee. ““They’re really
social clubs, a lot more casual and informal, where guys
who have a good bit in common can party together, where
they can date and watch football on TV or play intramurals
or do just about whatever they want.”

Ritual and national affiliation seem to be almost totally
unimportant to today’s fraternity men. In terms of structure,
it seems likely the future will bring further disassociation
between W&L chapters and their nationals—perhaps even
formal disaffiliation. The Student Affairs Committee, act-
ing on the recommendation of the Interfraternity Council,
approved a resolution last year stating that national affilia-
tion will no longer be required for official recognition at
W&L, and the Pi Kappa Alpha house has already moved
toward becoming strictly a local fraternity. Other houses

 

—including some of the soundest on campus—are talking
in private about disaffiliation as inevitable . . . some day.

Perhaps, though, “change” is too broad a word. Road
trips and intramurals still endure; a Roanoke Times article
this winter suggested that almost no after-class activity is
more important to members of at least one house at W&L
(the Lambda Chis) than watching ‘““Mary Hartman, Mary
Hartman” on television. (Some students—not just at WxL—
“have become so addicted,” the article by Trudy Willis
reported, ‘‘they’ve started rearranging their class schedules
around Mary Hartman.”)

Weekend parties still abound, and the big controversies
now are not whether such frivolity is conscionable in troubled
political times but whether the house should book a soul
group or a rock band.

Non-fraternity men, who now account for almost half
the student body, have abundant opportunities for di-
version of their own. The Student Center, completed in

Fraternity Update

 

 

The grain party in Red Square was a mecca for fraternity men and their dates on Homecoming 1975.

1970, has all the facilities any fraternity house has (except
sleeping quarters). Dorm regulations have been relaxed to
the point that students who live on campus enjoy pretty
much the same advantages as students living in the house.
The Student Activities Board, with a substantial budget,
provides entertainment ranging from weeknight singers in
the Cockpit (the Student Center rathskeller) to movies (almost
as many as are on IV, and usually better ones) to a goodly
number of student body-wide parties every term.

The bottom line, then, is that students are no longer
compelled to join fraternities for social survival. Those
who join now do so for the reason that everybody has always
agreed should be the only reason: because they want to.
It is, as one professor observed, the marketplace in action. If
a house is going to prosper, it will have to be because its pro-
duct appeals to a sufficient number of student-consumers—
because they view it as better than the alternative, not because
an alternative doesn’t exist. Free association is infinitely

8

 

to be preferred, this line of reasoning goes, over association
dictated by necessity.

“Fraternity houses are hardly the place for adamants,”
the W&L magazine observed in its 197] study of the frater-
nity dilemma. “Yet today’s is a generation of students who
have been taught that they know more of the answers than
anybody else ever knew; that it is a sign of weakness to give
in; that nothing is nobler than to do one’s own thing.”

In that same survey, Dean of Students Lewis G. John
wrote: “It could well be that the remaining houses [at W&L]
would become stronger individual units, although a lower
percentage of the student body would be members, and that
the fraternity system itself would respond in creative and
imaginative ways in furthering the overall] educational
development of the members.”

Clearly the nature of the 1976 student is not what it was
five years ago. And just as clearly, neither is the nature of
the fraternity system.

 

by Thomas B. Ramey III, ’75

A healthy ‘competition of identity

 

 

Too much has been conjectured and too much
written about the state of fraternities at Washington
and Lee and their future. All sorts of statistics have been
compiled, and most of them are meaningless. ‘The in-
teresting observations lie behind the numbers and dollar
signs.

It was only a few years ago that fraternities faced,
or seemed to face, a dilemma that threatened their exis-
tence at W&L. It seemed they would be forced to alter
some basic characteristics and precepts—or face extinc-
tion. The needs of college students were “changing,” it
was said, and fraternities could no longer provide the
solution to the evolving demands of the student intellect.

At Washington and Lee, this much-ballyhooed de-
mise was, it appeared, substantiated by a significant de-
crease in total fraternity membership and in particular
by the folding of Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma and Delta
Upsilon. Fraternity membership dropped from 70 or
75 per cent of the student body to 60 or 65 per cent.
At the same time, overhead and operating costs were
increasing substantially, further fueling the fires of
pessimism. In short, the future of fraternities at W&L
looked doubtful.

The early ’70s have come and gone, though, and—
surprisingly to some—fraternities still thrive at W&L.
Since the doomsday prophesies of a few years back, only
one more house, Psi Upsilon, has been forced to close
its doors. And last spring, Kappa Alpha was granted a
provisional charter, taking Psi Upsilon’s place in the fra-
ternity roster.

The fact is that I find myself enthusiastic about the
recent past and about the future of W&L’s fraternity
system. It seems to me that the doomsayers were guilty
of a significant oversight. Fraternities always have pro-
vided, and continue to provide, an important intangible
—a unique form of identity with which each student may
if he wishes associate himself. Gone are the days of the
Big and Little Cliques; yet each house possesses its own
gratifying identity. It is the desire on the part of the stu-
dent for personal association and identification of his
own choosing that provides the fraternity with its rush
appeal. I have seen many freshmen arrive at W&L long-
ing for a particular identity; as long as fraternities at
W&L continue to meet this need for selective identifica-
tion, they will survive.

Individual fraternity identifications have of course

 

‘Tom Ramey

changed with time. I have witnessed a moderate shifting
of house identities in my five years here; in academics,
intramurals, campus politics and other extracurriculars,
houses fluctuate as to dominance. Changes occur as each
house at W&L composes and implements its own unique
identity. ‘This competition for identity is undeniably
healthy.

It is the fraternity that provides only a marginal or
an inconsequential identity for its members that is in
danger—and this too assures the maintenance of a fra-
ternity system that is organically healthy.

I have. purposely kept from discussing numbers,
trends, statistics and dollar signs. Those are simply the
tip of the iceberg. If a fraternity is to survive—if it de-
serves to Survive—it must possess its own distinct identity.
Fraternities at W&L have in fact continued to be char-
acterized by this authentic set of identities. I am en-
couraged and enthusiastic about them and their future.

Thomas B. Ramey was president of the Interfraternity
Council in 1974-75. This year he has been assistant dt-
rector of admissions at W&L under the University’s
policy of employing a new graduate in that position for
one or two years.

 

 

Pr
ae
Be.

ar
es

 

eile
ne ar oe
se

Shea
ot ter,

R.
ae

oe

 

ee
Be
eee

o

a

 

 

 

 

BS

 

  
  
    
   

 

 

Communications Commission was
the : am) planning action which

 
 
  

within a complex mod
a computer. The “of

    

  
 
 
   
     
   

the Emory University Int
ness Game. Teams from
dozen colleges spend
each year “operating” a
home campuses, then-
to Emory in Atlanta fe
petition.

 
 
  
 

 

| 4 predictions from an “economic ex-
that the bottom was going to fall
f the entire economy; as a conse-
they watched their competitors
by expanding. (“Still praying for
epression?” became one of those
when-you-say-that” questions. |
spite the frustrations and ob-
>  Maurais and John S would hardly have been like
cor merce students. WS , | hing otherwise—the Washington
e game for three y : nd Le student-businessmen placed sec-

   
    
   
   
     
 

 
 

  

this year in the game
_ Mynders Glover, Phil

    
     
  
    
 
   
    
     
 
 

 
 

  
  
 
  

two outings
r. Joseph Golds
fesson ‘ol administratiot

 

J hind Wake Forest (whose team
to win the_ overall competition
_ teams). Both the en aa

 

 
       
     
 
   
  
 

year of the ¢ game. :. Company
saw the price of their stock
per cent, from $1.43 a share
e firm had record sales of
n units, and after-tax earnings
: n $8,000 to $240,000. Their re-

 

Each team is pl
firm in a “growth” | i
_“Adco” corporation ma:
zens? Band radios and
_ game covering |
into about six weeks r
cisions are sent to”

 
  
 
 
 

     
  

  

    
     
  
   

 
 

- puter |
_ Wrenches into the |

 

 

       

 

 

 

same sort of mistakes and learn the same
lessons from them—just a little less pain-
fully.”

Goldsten reports that W&L’s players
stood out from the others particularly
under intense questioning from the na-
tional judges. Other schools could put to-
gether a presentation, he said, but fre-
quently fell down in the question ses-
sions.

His view was echoed by Mynders Glo-

a
>
?
*
«
-
¥
is

os

ver, one of the team members, who credit-
ed W&L’s success in the game largely to
the quality of the business education
they had received at the University. Other
teams, he said, sometimes seemed to con-
sider the game nothing more than a
game. They depended on luck. W&L, on
the other hand, did well because team
members had a firmer grasp of business
fundamentals and approached the game
more seriously.

Goldsten sees the game as an excellent
learning tool; he is so impressed with it,
in fact, that he teaches a class (from
which the W&L team in the Emory com-
petition was selected), which is a modified
version of the national game played on
W&L’s IBM 1130 computer.

W&L business game executives Phil Han-
rahan, John Swanson, Mark Maurais, Jay
DuRivage, and H. Mynders Glover.

 

13

 

2 ay i

W&L team captain John Podgajny (30) in
action against Hampden-Sydney; he led the
Generals in scoring with a 17-point
average.

 

The winter athletic teams had one
of the most successful years in history,
yet it was a disappointing year for the bas-
ketball team, which was passed over by
the NCAA for its post-season tournament
despite an outstanding 19-7 record.

The basketball team was the un-
fortunate victim of circumstances. When
the NCAA divided into three divisions
several years ago, most of the better bas-
ketball-playing institutions chose either
Divisions I (the big boys) or II (athletic
grants-in-aid). The number and quality
of schools in W&L’s Division III (where
no athletic grants-in-aid are given) was
not great initially. A school such as W&L
could have dominated.

However, the NCAA hoped that more
schools would see the advantages of
changing from Division II status to
Division III, thus enhancing their chances
of winning a national championship. And
that’s what happened this past season.

That’s part of the reason why W&L
was shot down. Several schools which
had previously chosen not to compete in
the NCAA opted for it in ’76, and they
were chosen over W&L. Several others—
one of which W&L had beaten during
the regular season—were chosen because
their conference winners automatically
qualify for the NCAA tournament.

There were four places available in
the South Atlantic region; two were tak-
en by automatic qualifiers; of the teams

14

 

by John Hughes

Sports Information Director

Winter sports:

Everybody
wins, but...

considered for the other two places, W&L
was third on the list. Close, but no cigar.

So the basketball Generals had to con-
tent themselves with an outstanding over-
all record (19-7) plus its first champion-
ship in the Virginia College Athletic As-
sociation (VCAA). W&L lost only one of
14 VCAA games (that by just one point)
to wrap up the title. The Generals were
led by team captain John Podgajny, who
averaged over 17 points a game and was
the most valuable player in the W&L In-
vitational ‘Tournament.

Coach Bill Stearns was expecting great
things from his swimming team, and he
was not disappointed. The Generals won
seven of nine dual meets, including sur-
prisingly easy victories over William &
Mary and VMI. Virginia Tech and David-
son also were victims.

All-Americans John Hudson and Tad
Van Leer led the Generals throughout
the season. Van Leer was virtually un-
beatable in the freestyle sprints, while
Hudson led the nation in the longer free-
style events. Both men qualified for the
national swimming meet, along with sen-
sational diver Bill Cogar, who won both
the l-meter and 3-meter competition in
the Virginia State Meet. In early March
they were busy practicing for the national

Wrestling captain Jimmy Crytzer on his
way to the national meet. He had a
16-6-2 record.

 

 

 

 

ee # en ge

W&L’s super swimmers John Hudson
(above) and Tad Van Leer.

meet, where W&L placed 10th overall last
year.

The wrestling team under Coach Gary
Franke posted a winning season of 8-7 in
dual meets and finished third in the
VCAA. Team captain Jimmy Crytzer
qualified for the national meet with a
16-6-2 record; he also repeated as VCAA
champion in the 158-Ib. class.

Also outstanding for the Generals
were senior Lee Keck (11-5 at 126-134
Ibs.), freshman Kevin McFadden (17-6 at
150-158 lbs.) and freshman heavyweight
Dan Kniffen (15-9).

Coach Norris Aldridge’s indoor track
team did well and showed much promise
for the upcoming outdoor season. Fresh-
man Jack Norberg was selected the Out-
standing Performer as W&L finished a
close second in the Lynchburg Indoor
Relays. Norberg ran on three winning
relay teams, was on the long jump relay
team that placed second and the mile re-
lay team that was fourth. Team captain
John Tucker ran legs on three winning
relay teams and participated in the long
jump relay. Weightman Phil Dunlay, a
freshman, won both the 35-lb. weight
throw and the shots.

Chapter news

SOUTHERN OHIO. President and Mrs.
Robert E. R. Huntley were special guests
of the chapter at a dinner meeting on
Feb. 19 at the Cincinnati Country Club.
All of the arrangements were made by
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Hilton Jr., ’38.
A large number of alumni, parents of
students, and friends of the University
attended and heard President Huntley
report on the University’s status—its past,
present, and future. Hilton presided with
delightful good humor. A special guest
was Mrs. R. I. Cohen, widow of Ralph I.
Cohen, 43. Also present from the Uni-
versity were Alumni Secretary and Mrs.
W. C. Washburn. Dr. James W. Priest,
‘43, of Dayton, outgoing president, re-
ported for the nominating committee.
The following officers were unanimously
elected: Thomas P. Winborne, ’51, presi-
dent, and Stephen W. Rutledge, ’62, vice
president and secretary.

SOUTHSIDE VIRGINIA. Alumni from
Bassett, Chatham, Danville, Martinsville,
and the surrounding area met on Jan. 30
for a cocktail party and dinner at the
Chatmoss Country Club. Guests from
the University were William D. Mc-
Henry, athletic director and head foot-
ball coach, and W. C. Washburn, alum-
ni secretary, and their wives. McHenry
was the principal speaker and was intro-
duced by E. R. Eanes Jr., ’54, his class-
mate. McHenry reported on Washington
and Lee’s athletic program, citing team
records and predicting a bright future.
Richard B. Wiles, a freshman at W&L
and a member of the football team, ac-
companied McHenry and commented on
the experience of the student-athlete at
the University. The cocktail party was
sponsored by a group of alumni in the
area. Dr. Robert Mauck, ’50, was mas-
ter of ceremonies at the dinner. During
a brief business session, T. Ryland Dod-
son, ’46A, ’47L, reported for the nomi-
nating committee. The following officers
were elected: H. Victor Millner Jr., 54,
‘60L, president; E. R. Eanes Jr., ’54,
vice president; Charles L. McCormick

“e ee par
eereriyersses ©:
Lp aepeee sere tess ee : Pe

 

Southern Ohio—With President Huntley (third from left) are Dr. James W. Priest, ’43,
Stephen W. Rutledge, ‘62, Mrs. Rutledge, Thomas P. Winborne, ’51, and Robert W.
Hilton Jr., ’38.

 

III, 58, ’60L, secretary. The meeting ad-
journed with the new president outlining
plans for future activities.

Southside Virginia—Enjoying the fellow-
ship are E. R. Eanes Jr., 54, Dr. Robert H.
Mauck, 750, Victor Millner Jr., ’54,

Charles L. McCormick III, 58, and William

D. McHenry, ’54, a guest of the chapter.
PALM BEACH-FORT LAUDERDALE.

Alumni and friends of the University in
the area gathered on Feb. 18 at The
Breakers Hotel in Palm Beach to honor
President and Mrs. Robert E. R. Hunt-
ley. Hosts at the cocktail party and ele-
gant dinner were Beverley H. Smith, ’32,

Chapter News

 

and Nicholas S. Smith, 63, and their
wives. Nick Smith presided, introduced
guests, and extended a warm welcome to
President and Mrs. Huntley. Bev Smith
welcomed several alumni and their wives
who attended the meeting from as far
away as Miami. He also paid special tri-
bute to the late Cap’n Dick Smith, former
W&L athletic director and close friend,
who died last year. President Huntley’s
report on the University was enthusiasti-
cally received. Also present were J. Tho-
mas Touchton, ’60, of ‘Tampa, a member
of the Alumni Board of Directors, and
W. C. Washburn, alumni secretary, and
their wives.

JACKSONVILLE. At a chapter busi-
ness meeting on Feb. 5 at the Seminole
Club, the following new officers were
elected: Harry M. Wilson, ’69, president;
Donald B. Cartwright, ’72, vice president;
William Jeter Jr., ’71, secretary-treasurer.
Among the questions discussed were an-
nual chapter dues and the possible for-
mation of an advisory or steering commit-
tee. The chapter also discussed plans for
activities in the months ahead.

CHATTANOOGA. The University’s
chief administrative officers were guests
of the chapter at a meeting on Feb. 28 at
the Mountain City Club. E. Marshall
Nuckols, rector of the Board of Trus-
tees, and President Robert E. R. Huntley
gave informative reports on the status of
the University. ‘Their reports were follow-
ed by a question-and-answer period. The
meeting was on the eve of the opening at
the Hunter Museum of Art of Washing-
ton and Lee’s traveling exhibit of Chinese
Export Porcelain. Others attending the
meeting were Adrian Williamson Jr., ’50,
of Little Rock, an alumni staff associate
in the development program, and W. C.
Washburn, alumni secretary. David M.
Berlinghof, ’55, chapter president, was
master of ceremonies. Other officers who
helped with the arrangements were Alex
Tarumianz Jr., ’69, ’72L, and Allen
Brown, ’72.

16

 

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Alumni Director and Mrs. Tom Touchton (center) talk
with alumni.

 

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—In conversation (left to right) are Mrs. Bill Washburn,
Judge Norm Roettger, ’58, Bev Smith, 32, Ken Wacker, ’46, Mrs. Wacker, Dr. Donald
Warren, 49, and Mrs. Warren (back to camera).

pS i
a oe _

« @ *

9 9 | rit 3 el a.

Chattanooga—Members and guests hear reports from Rector Nuckols and
President Huntley.

 

 

 

cal ion a at Trinity Darin . h
coln, Ill., for three years, at the Chi
the Ascension, Troy, N.Y., for 13 ye

at Emmant el for 19 Years.

Law School, began spon any law i in “Monti-
cello, Ark. in 1915 and beeen in 1978. Heo

“Observation ‘Squadron of the Arkansas Na:
tional Guard aud was its con

 

Con. James K. oe
ing traveling. He

: : ee | atellit ountr: ries. Hi oo - i ng re: : - a Michiana Public Broadcasting ( es
also visited Iran, $p ain, a bic ee
ville, Ala., is his h me. Poe Sie <r and Memorial: ee of E South

Chamber of Commerce, “Art

conten the Santa -
other railroads. He was:
dent Ford to

Railroad

 

 

Class Notes

him to Austria, Switzerland, Germany, Ethio-
pia, Tanzania, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, Sene-
gal, and Mauritania.

WILLIAM B. Hopkins of Roanoke has given
up his Virginia General Assembly posts as
Senate Democratic majority leader and chair-
man of the Senate Committee on Local Gov-
ernment to become president of the Tennes-
see Forging Steel Corp. Hopkins had served
as chairman of the company’s board for sev-
eral years.

Gites C. McCrary, after military service in
Europe during World War II, settled in
Post, Texas, in 1946. Since then he has been
involved in several enterprises including
ranching, farming, and oil production. He
is chairman of the board of the First Na-
tional Bank and for several terms was mayor
of the city. He and his wife, Louise, have

three children.
1943

‘The Rev. R. FRANCIS JOHNSON will spend a
sabbatical leave from Connecticut College,
during the second semester, in residence at
the Ecumenical Institute for Advanced Theo-
logical Studies near Jerusalem.

RALPH S. TAGGART, a manufacturer’s repre-
sentative, is an outstanding sailboat racer.
His new cruiser-racer, a Class Ranger 28
christened Flight, won 1975 Boat of the Year
honors. During the Frostbite Regatta at Pass
Christian, Miss., in November, Taggart, sail-
ing Flight, was Handicap B class champion.

1944

Dr. Ropsins L. GATEs has been promoted to
professor of political science at Mary Bald-
win College and named coordinator of the
college’s division of social sciences and _his-
torical studies. He does little theater work
and is currently vice president of the Oak
Grove Players of Staunton.

LEON Harris, former attorney and legislator
in South Carolina, is now principal of a
high school in Manning, S. C.

JAMEs CALEB STANFIELD, an attorney in Paris,
Ill., is general counsel and a member of
the board of directors of Edgar County Bank
& ‘Trust Co. He raises registered Texas Long-
horn cattle and is treasurer of the Texas
Longhorn Breeders Association. He operates
Stanfield Farms, a family agricultural enter-

prise.
1945

L. GORDON MILLER Jr., executive vice presi-

18

dent of Wheat, First Securities, Inc. of Rich-
mond, Va., has been elected to the board of
directors of the Securities Industry Associa-
tion. The SIA is an industry association of
investment bankers and brokers in the Unit-
ed States and Canada, which conducts educa-
tional programs about the investment in-
dustry; it serves as a consultant to members
of Congress on legislation that affects the in-
dustry and conducts various projects to pro-
mote the affairs of the securities industry.
Miller represents the Mid-Atlantic District
on the Governing Council and _ presently
holds positions in the association on the
National Regional Firms Committee and the
National Syndicate Committee. He is a trus-
tee of the Wharton School of Investment
Banking. Miller was formerly with Bank-
ers Trust Co. in New York and with Miller
& Patterson, stockbrokers, before joining
Wheat, First Securities in 1957.

Dr. MATHEW E. O’KEEFE of Whittier, Calif.,
has been appointed to the board of chancel-
lors of the American College of Radiology
and will serve as chairman of the College
Commission on Standards in Radiologic Prac-
tice. He is the past president of the Califor-
nia Radiological Society.

1946

Don R. MaARsH is a partner of Stern & Marsh
Co. of Towson, Md., a manufacturer’s agency
representing suppliers of vegetable oils,
chemicals, and containers.

1948

LESLIE F, JAMEs lives in a motel apartment
on Anna Maria Island near Bradenton, Fla.
He is a practicing public accountant in Bra-
denton.

BERNARD D. KAPLAN, former Paris correspon-
dent for NBC News, was recently named
Paris correspondent for the Hearst News-
paper group.

ANDREW H. MCCUTCHEON Jp. is serving as di-
rector of public affairs at Reynolds Metals
Co. in Richmond, Va.

Dr. W. H. RATTNER has been appointed
chairman of the Department of Urology at
Sinai Hospital in Detroit, Mich.

JAMEs CALEB STANFIELD (See 1944).

1949

RoBeErT E. LEE IV, vice president and sales

manager of A. Smith Bowman, distillers, ad-
dressed the Lynchburg Chapter of the Ameri-
can Advertising Federation in February. Be-
fore joining A. Smith Bowman in 1970, Lee
was national advertising manager for the
San Francisco Chronicle and Examiner.

PERRY E. MANN serves as prosecuting attor-
ney of Summers County, W. Va. He and his
wife, Clara, have two children. The family
lives in Hinton.

SPENCER W. MortTEN of Bassett, Va., is presi-
dent and treasurer of Bassett Mirror Co.,
vice president and director of the First Na-
tional Bank of Bassett, director of Blue Ridge
Hardware Co., and vice president and di-
rector of Ray Stone Trucking Co. He is also
a director of the Bassett-Walker Knitting Co.
and a director of Bassett Furniture Indus-
tries.

1950

FREDERICK H. KLOSTERMEYER has been elected
associate counsel of claims for Lawyers Title
Insurance Corp. in Richmond.

ROBERT VANBUREN, president of Midlantic
National Bank of Newark, N. J., was recent-
ly appointed vice chairman of the Midlan-
tic Holding Corp.

1951

Guy B. HAMMonp of Blacksburg, Va., has
been re-elected president of the VPI and
State University’s faculty senate.

After 17 years in the general insurance busi-
ness, RICHARD 'T. PruiTT formed a textile
manufacturing company to make velvets for
the furniture and home furnishing industry.
The name of the company is Baxter, Kelly
& Faust, Inc. Pruitt is also vice chairman of
the school board, director of the Chamber of
Commerce, and chairman of the planning
and zoning commission. He lives in Ander-
son, S. C.

W. VANCE RUCKER JR., formerly with Burling-
ton Industries, has resigned to form his own
company, Twenty-Eight, Inc. It is a consult-
ing business that markets a personal finan-
cial control method which Rucker design-
ed.

CHARLES F, TUCKER is a practicing lawyer in
Norfolk, Va. He is president-elect of the
Norfolk and Portsmouth Bar Association.

1952

JOSEPH J. EISLER, a former manager of Lees
Carpets in Pittsburgh, Pa., has been named

   

 

 

 

 

pia
‘Dec. (12, 1975. He,
live in Fairfield,

|
|

 

 

 

 

 

Class Noles

 

Harvard University Medical School, recently
performed a rare operation to remove a tu-
mor from the eye of an infant—a procedure
that received national attention. Only about
50 similar cases have been reported; the 90-
minute operation was essential to save the
life of the child. Dr. Grove received his M.D.
from the University of Pennsylvania in 1963
and has done brain tumor research at the
National Institutes of Health. He became in-
terested in public health planning and medi-
cal law and, in 1969, received a law degree
from the Harvard University School of Law.
That same year he began his residency in
ophthalmology at the Massachusetts Infir-
mary and, after holding several fellowships in
plastic surgery, was named to the staff. He
recently joined the Harvard Medical School
faculty.

WILLIAM PHILIP LAUGHLIN is currently senior
project engineer with Exxon Research and
Engineering, Florham Park, N. J. He and
his wife have two daughters.

1960
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. Howe Brown, a
daughter, Sarah Kathryn, on Aug. 2, 1975.
The young lady joins two older brothers.
The family lives in Fairfax, Va.

JoHN K. McMovrray, currently in the art de-
partment of Phillips Andover Academy, has
created three pieces of modern sculpture de-
picting Don Quixote and his horse, Fer-
dinand the bull, and a flying eagle. McMur-
ray fashioned the pieces from steel, discard-
ed plowshares, fiberglass and wire mesh. He
has moved the pieces from Massachusetts to
a 250 acre farm near Martinsburg, W. Va.,
which has been in the family since 1840. Dr.
James Leyburn, dean emeritus of Washing-
ton and Lee, lives on the farm.

CLIFTON D. MITCHELL is the assistant con-
troller of the Brookings Institution in Wash-
ington, D. C. He and his wife have two sons.

RAYMOND E. WOOLDRIDGE of Houston, Texas,
has been elected the new chairman of Dis-
trict No. 6 Committee of the National As-
sociation of Securities Dealers, Inc. The
NASD is the self-regulatory organization for
the over-the-counter securities market. Wool-
dridge is vice president, director and _ resi-
dent manager of Eppler, Guerin & Turner,
Inc. in Houston. He and his wife have four
children.

THoMAs P. O'BRIEN Jr. (See 1958).
20

196]

EpwWARpD A. AMEs has been elected vice chair-
man of the First National Bank of Onan-
cock, Va. Ames, a _ practicing attorney, has
been a bank director since 1967. Currently
he is vice president of the Eastern Shore Bar
Association, a trustee of the Northhampton-
Accomack Memorial Hospital, and a direc-
tor of the Eastern Shore Red Cross and
Heart Association. He and his wife, Eliza-
beth, have three children.

JAcK H. BREARD Jr. is now vice president and
general manager of Exxon Industries, Inc.,
Dallas. This past year he was selected Gen-
eral Manager of the Year of the EBSCO sub-
scription service division.

1962

Dr. STEPHEN R. CHERNAY of Hopewell Junc-
tion, N. Y., has a 36-acre horse farm for
training race horses and hunters. He also
practices pediatrics in Fishkill, N. Y. and is
chairman of the county medical society and
a delegate to the state house of the state
medical society.

ALAN M. Corwin has an article on profes-
sional Jewish educators in Compass, a pub-
lication of the Commission on Jewish Educa-
tion. He has also been elected to the ex-
ecutive board of the National Association of
‘Temple Educators.

W. HAYNE Hipp has been named senior vice
president of the investment division for Li-
berty Life Insurance Co. He joined the com-
pany in 1969 as assistant vice president of
marketing and later served as vice president
of direct marketing. He became vice presi-
dent of the mortgage loan department in
early 1974. Hipp received his master’s de-
gree in business administration from Whar-
ton and completed the Harvard Business
School’s Program for Management Develop-
ment. Hipp, a resident of Greenville, S. C.,
is a trustee of the Greenville County School
District, vice president of the Greenville Ur-
ban League, treasurer of the Greenville
County Foundation, director and vice presi-
dent of the greater Greenville Chamber of
Commerce and director and vice president of
the Greenville YMCA.

W. T. WHEELER is with Caterpillar in Gene-
va, Switzerland. He and his wife have three
sons,

1963

Dr. ROBERT M. AUBURN specializes in obstet-
rics, gynecology, and infertility in Ventura-

   

ali)‘

W. H. Hipp, ’62

by-the-Sea, Calif. He and his wife, Diane,
have two sons and twin daughters.

FREDERICK LLOYD BAKER III of Riverside,
Conn., was recently elected to membership
in the Sons of the Revolution through his
Revolutionary War ancestor, Esek Carr (1738-
1816).

M. DAYTON CONKLIN is associated with the
investment banking firm of Loeb-Rhoades &
Co. in San Antonio, Texas. He and his wife
have twins, a son and daughter seven years
old, and a son four years old.

RUGELEY P. DEVAN III is vice president and
a member of the board of directors of the
Allen Co., the Boonesboro Quarry, Inc., and
Concrete Materials Corp., all in the Win-
chester, Ky. area. He is also a member of
the board of directors of the Winchester
Bank, the Winchester Data Center, the Win-
chester-Clarke County Airport Board and
St. Agatha Academy. He and his wife have
a son and a daughter.

THoMAsS P. McDavip is vice president in
charge of the material accounts section at
Union Trust Co. of Maryland. He lives in
Baltimore.

JosEpH L. TopINKA of Riverside, Ill., re-
cently joined Stanton Equipment Co. as
vice president. The firm is a major midwest
supplier of equipment to the contract scaven-
ger industry.

1964
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. PETER S. TRAGER of
Atlanta, a daughter, Jennifer Paige, in
March 1975. Trager is practicing general
dentistry with offices in East Marietta, Ga.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. PENNINGTON H. WAY
III, a son, Pennington H. IV, on April 13,
1975. The family resides in Avon, Conn.

PAUL R. COCKsHUTT JR. is Sunday editor of
the News and Observer in Raleigh, N. C.

WILLIAM H. Fitz, an attorney with the Wash-
ington, D. C. firm of Pierson, Ball and Dowd,
specializes in cases before the Federal Com-
munications Commission.

DAvip JAMES FRENCH is a vice president in
the World Banking Division of the Bank of
America in San Francisco. He and his wife
have two daughters aged 3 years and 8
months. They also have two Korean children
aged 20 years and 16 years.

BARRY A. GREENE, in a race for two seats with
a field of six candidates, was elected in May

salesman. He

. He is re] 21 Cc ; n : a * i , : - 7 7
in the |

7

 

- ee

in lab
West,

 

Class Notes

 

to assistant director of mortgage loans at
Mutual of New York in New York City. His
office is responsible for the evaluation of
urban mortgage loans proposals. He will also
assist in the training of the mortgage in-
vestment staff. Having served with the First
Boston Corp. and Manufacturers Hanover
Trust Co., Morrison joined MONY as a
mortgage analyst in 1973.

WALTER S. NICKLIN is editor of the magazine
European Community, published by the
European Community Information Service of
Washington, D. C.

MICHAEL Y. SAUNDERS is a partner in a Hous-
ton, Texas, law firm.

RICHARD E. SIMON JR. is now a freelance
writer of educational and promotional ma-
terials. For the past four years, he was with
the Coronet Division of Esquire, Inc.

GEoRGE N. STAMAs is now employed by Euro-
pean Banking Co., Ltd. as an assistant treas-
urer with responsibilities for international
and national business.

WILLIAM L. WALKER, after a year as news edi-
tor of the Summerville (S. C.) Journal, has re-
turned to his former position as director of
public relations and development at Porter-
Gaud School in Charleston.

1968

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JosEPH W. Brown, a
fourth son, William Hunter, on Oct. 28, 1975.
Brown is a partner of the Las Vegas law
firm of Jones, Jones, Bell, LeBaron, Close &
Brown.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. H. WILLIAM WAL-
KER JR., a son, William Campbell, on Dec. 16,
1975.

Roy J. Morcan has recently become a part-
ner in the law firm of Billings, Frederick,
Wooten & Honeywell in Orlando, Fla.

1969

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. WADE SAMPLE, a
son, John Brevard, on Dec. 1, 1975. The
family lives in Shreveport, La.

LEON D. Katz is a senior at the University
of Maryland Dental School, where he serves
as president of the Student Dental Associa-
tion and student representative to the board
of governors of the Maryland State Dental
Association. Upon graduation in July, Katz
will begin a general practice residency in
dentistry at Sinai Hospital in Baltimore.

22

BRANDY MARTIN is engaged in the practice
of law in Petersburg and is working as a
volunteer in the activities of the Old Domi-
nion chapter of the National Railway His-
torical Society in Richmond to establish a
museum and storage site for railway equip-
ment. Martin is also involved in the South-
side Virginia Railroad Society’s effort to as-
sist in the preservation of historical rail-
road buildings in the Petersburg area.

WILLIAM W. STUuART is engaged in the private
practice of law in Chicago and is teaching as
a visiting associate professor of law at DePaul
University.

THORNTON M. HEnry (See 1966).

1970
MARRIAGE: EARL BRYSON POWELL to
Frances Courtney Simpson on Jan. 31, 1976
in Richmond. Powell is connected with the
Brandermill development, a Sea Pines com-
munity. ‘The couple lives in Midlothian, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. H. VAUGHAN GRIFFIN
Jr., a son, H. Vaughan III, on Aug. 31, 1975.

WAYNE L. BELL, Bristol, Va., attorney, was
named a judge of the 28th Judicial Court on
Jan. 29 by the Virginia General Assembly.
The vote in both House and Senate was
unanimous. The 28th Judicial Circuit is com-
prised of Smyth County, Washington Coun-
ty and the City of Bristol and is served by
two circuit judges. Bell will serve as the
judge of the circuit court of Bristol, which
has general original jurisdiction of criminal,
civil and chancery matters. At 32 he became
the youngest sitting judge of a court of gen-
eral jurisdiction in the state and _ possibly
the youngest such judge in the history of
modern Virginia. Prior to his election he
was the resident partner for the firm of Penn,
Stuart, Eskridge & Jones, managing the Bris-
tol office.

WAUGH CRIGLER, a lawyer in Culpeper, Va.,
has been appearing on national television
as referee for the Culpeper team competing
in ABC television’s Almost Anything Goes
series. —The show pits small towns against
one another in the performance of slap-stick
stunts. Crigler’s team won against Front
Royal and Manassas in a competition shown
on ABC on Jan. 31. Then on Feb. 12, he
appeared on a promotional show that in-
cluded introduction of the Culpeper team
members and their families. In the regional
competition filmed in Culpeper and aired
by ABC on Feb. 14, the Culpeper and West-
minister, Md., teams lost to a team from
Chambersburg, Pa.

 

W. L. Bell, ’70

Dr. STUART L. PORTER is staff veterinarian at
the Gladys Porter Zoo in Brownsville, Texas.

Dr. BRUCE SAMUELS is a resident in internal
medicine at Charity Hospital of Louisiana
in New Orleans.

1971

JAMEs R. ALLEN is presently employed as an
audit senior with the accounting firm of
Price, Waterhouse & Co. in Washington,
D. C. Allen successfully completed the C.P.A.
examination in May 1975; he is a member of
the D. C. Society of C.P.A.’s.

‘TiMoTHy H. DYER was recently elected assis-
tant treasurer of Five Cents Savings Bank,
New Bedford, Mass. and is serving as a
marketing officer.

REVERDY H. JONEs III is now practicing law
with the firm of Higinbotham, Jones &
Higinbotham in Fairmont, W. Va.

HENRY (SKIP) NOTTBERG III is vice president
of U. S. Engineering Co., a construction firm
in Kansas City, Mo.

RicHARD A. Pizzi of Berkeley Heights, N. J.,
has been appointed the township prosecutor.
Pizzi, a member of the Virginia and New Jer-
sey state bars, clerked for six months for
Post and Staub in Westfield, N. J., and for
the past four years has been associated with
the Union County prosecutor’s office. He
served with the organized crime strike force
for a year. He will be associated with the
law firm of Winetsky and Winetsky in Lin-
den, N. J.

‘THOMAS E. REYNOLDs, who received the M.S.
degree in anatomy in 1973 from the Uni-
versity of Virginia, is presently a third-year
medical student there.

‘I’. JEFFREY SALB graduated from the Indiana
University-Indianapolis Law School with the
J.D. degree in May 1975.

H. WILLIAM WALKER Jr. (See 1968).

1972

MARRIAGE: MICHAEL W. MCCALL to Mar-
jorie Ann McCreary of Louisville, Ky., on
July 20, 1975. Alumni in attendance includ-
ed Mike Brooks, ’72, Dave Herbert, ’72,
Bruce Hankins, ’72, and Mike Berry, ’71. Mc-
Call will graduate from the University of
Louisville Medical School in May 1976.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. H. JERNIGAN JR.,
a son, Thomas Andrew, on Dec. 14, 1975.
The family lives in Abingdon, Va.

 

 

In Memoriam

 

Rosert A. Cook is editor of the Buena Vista
News. He lives in Lexington, Va.

RANDY L. FLINK is enrolled in the M.B.A.
program at the University of Michigan Gra-
duate School of Business Administration.

CARLYLE GREGORY JR. is presently a legisla-
tive assistant to Charles Gunn and Lacey
Putney, delegates to the 1976 session of the
Virginia General Assembly.

Commissioned as Ensign, U.S.N.R. on Nov.
21, 1975, KARL E. KLINGER is training at
the Naval Air Station in Pensacola, Fla. to
be a naval flight officer.

ROBERT M. LANDER II is attending the De-
troit College of Law.

Roppy MCcCASKILL, after a short stint at the
University of Arkansas Law School, is now
working in the management training pro-
gram at Pulaski Federal Savings and Loan
Association in Little Rock, Ark.

JaMEs N. Overton is in Jacksonville, Fla.
working for Southeast Electronics, Inc., a
small firm dealing in the distribution of
broadcast and industrial electronic parts and
closed-circuit video equipment.

BEN M. SHERMAN is author of a recent book
entitled The Blake School 1907-1974, a
chronological history published by the Col-
well Press of Minneapolis, Minn. The work
traces the history of the preparatory school.

BENTON C. Tovey III will be stationed at
the Naval Legal Service Office at the Naval
Air Station in Jacksonville, Fla. for the next
three years.

W. H. JERNIGAN Jr. (See 1972).

 

In Memoriam

 

1908

WHEATLEY MILLER JOHNSON, a dairy farmer
and former member of the Prince William
County Board of Supervisors, died Dec. 19,
1975 in Manassas, Va. Johnson was named
Manassas’ Citizen of the Century in 1973
for his contributions as a scholar, farmer, and
good example to youth. He was a founder
of the Prince William 4-H Dairy Club. John-
son was a former judge of the juvenile court
in Manassas and was a member of the
Prince William County Democratic Commit-
tee.

24

1912

WELTON GRAHAM Woop of Chester, Va., a
Presbyterian minister, died Jan. 21, 1976.
Wood served Presbyterian pastorates in Ten-
nessee, West Virginia, and Virginia. He
retired in 1961.

1913

CHARLES HERBERT ‘TOMPKINS, an attorney in
Prescott, Ark., died Sept. 20, 1975. While at
W&L, Tompkins was a pitcher on the base-
ball team. He participated briefly in pro-
fessional baseball and then practiced law in
Prescott for more than 60 years.

1914

ALBERT SIDNEY CUMMINS, a native of Na-
tural Bridge, Va., and for many years prom-
inent in the teaching field, died Jan. 31,
1976. Cummins received his M.A. degree from
Columbia University and later did gradu-
ate work at the University of Virginia. He
spent many years in the teaching profession
in Virginia, North Carolina, Maryland and
Florida.

1924

BERRY BOSWELL Brooks JR., big game hun-
ter, photographer, lecturer and retired cot-
tonman, died Jan. 21, 1976 at his home in
Memphis, Tenn. Brooks was world famous as
a huntsman, and he was also known as a
naturalist, conservationist and _ philanthro-
pist. His skill as a hunter made him almost
as well known in obscure corners of the
world as he was along Front Street in Mem-
phis where he had spent 53 years in the cot-
ton business. Animal trophies in the Berry
B. Brooks African Hall at the Memphis
Pink Palace Museum are a popular tourist
attraction. In 1959, Brooks was presented
the Weatherby Big Game Trophy, which
goes to the International Sportsman of the
Year. The selection was based partly on his
secondary career as a photographer-lecturer,
whose African films helped to raise money
for game conservation and charities. Brooks
entered the cotton business in 1922 and re-
tired as head of his own concern in 1972;
however, he remained active in the cotton
market. He was a past president of the Mem-
phis Cotton Exchange and was king of the
Cotton Carnival in 1957. He belonged to
dozens of organizations relating to hunting
and conservation, including the exclusive
Boone and Crockett Club of New York City.

1933

WILLIAM PATRICK COLEMAN, well-known at-

torney at law in Lexington, Va., died Feb.
4, 1976. Coleman was a former member of
the Lexington School Board, a director of the
United Virginia Bank / Rockbridge, a mem-
ber of the Lexington Lodge No. 66, Knights
of Pythias, and a member of the Lexington
Moose Lodge. He was also a member of the
American Bar Association, the Virginia State
Bar, and was past president of the Rock-
bridge-Buena Vista Bar Association.

1942

THOMAS DUNN MurRRAY of War, W. Va., died
Jan. 24, 1976. While at W&L, Murray was an
outstanding athlete. His family lived in Lex-
ington for several years and his mother ran
a boarding house for students. Murray had
been involved in several business ventures
including a home furnishing business, and
People’s Life Insurance Co. At the time of
his death he was employed by the Paco Fuel
Co. He was very. active in civic and church
projects and in promoting sports activities in
his community.

1946

The Rev. JoHN Bostwick HOoLtey, dean of
studies at Mount St. Mary’s Seminary and
a former vice rector of the seminary, died
Dec. 10, 1975. Father Holley was ordained in
1960 and served as assistant at St. Anthony’s
Church in Washington, D. C. until 1965,
when he was assigned to St. Matthew’s Ca-
thedral while studying church history at
Catholic University. He joined the faculty at
Mount St. Mary’s Seminary in 1968 and at
the time of his death was assistant professor
of history.

1947

CHARLES HENRY BRENNAN JR., self-employed
in Swarthmore, Pa., as a creative consultant,
died Dec. 16, 1975. Before going into busi-
ness for himself in 1973, he had been a vice
president and creative director with N. W.
Ayer & Co.

195]

W. FRANK STICKLE Jr. died Jan. 26, 1976. At
the time of his death he was a partner in
the Washington law firm of Hanson, O’Brien,
Birney, Stickle and Butler. Stickle had ser-
ved as an assistant U. S. Attorney for the
District of Columbia in 1960-62 and prior
to that had been an attorney with the De-
partment of Health, Education and Welfare.
A member of the D. C., Maryland, and
American Bar Associations, Stickle belonged
to the Barristers, and was a trustee of the
St. James School in Hagerstown.

  

  
       
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
    
   

- a - «
- 7 7
7
-
- 7
7 «
7
; : : -
-. - - -
7 - : - -
.
— - -
- ; - -
-
7 .
- 7 € a
a . OO Se. 7 - 7 - - OO -
- 7 .
: — - a 7 - 7 - -
- a -
- - - 7 - 7 - - -
- - 7
- : 7 . 7
- a : :
7 - - - - -
7 7 7 7 - 7 -
- : 7 a a 7
a
st
= -
’

 

ety

 

unt

one

 

 
 
  
   
     

“ee

 

a

 

 
 

  
 
    

 

oe

 

 

SS - 7 an
OB
7 a

 

 

   

. - OS
. 7
. - 7 a
oe _ - :

      

- - - — - -

ee
7 a ; > ee a -
oe Bn - re -—

 

 
   
  
  
 
 

 
  
  
  

   
      
 
  
 
 

     

   

   

        
     

  
 

 

 

 

 
  
   

        
   

 

 
 

           

7 - ee
7 - - : - OO oe
i > ee 7 5
: 7 a eee 7
- - - - ee - a A
- - a ——
a
- : a
os :
- oe : : —
: a oo 7 | a a oad
- ae “soe web Wears eet
-

             

Mo OSFRE Dims.s1g “uopdurxoy

ALISUFAINA ATT UNV NOLONIHSVM

 

